

The B u lle tin
and The Observer
OFF - BEAT
DOCTORS
'feed in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
Melbourne Uni.
Communists Again
Defence
of the North
Xavier Herbert
Short Story


HERE is a modern new truck from
INTERNATIONAL ... the AACO 172 ... a
design so new it's like starting over again
» *
Tffr4
m
&*• - % *-
rt
ifL * ,
?
*& : .
i
>»a
■ ■-.
m
dk -A
l v
See the AACO 172 at your International dealer today.
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
International Harvester Company of Australia Pty. Ltd.
FM T405/HlO9/ FP


Society
Menzies’s Change of Front
The Wool Bureau got full value from
the visit of O. E. Schoeffler, fashion
editor of “Esquire,” the current issue of
which devotes several pages to the good
time Schoeffler had here, and to the
warmth and wonder of wool. He even
says that Australian men’s dress is no
longer like “an unmade bed,” the claim
made for it by another American author,
Robert Ruark.
Pictured in an Australian-made suit
treated by the Siroset process, Mr
Schoeffler mentions that at the same time
as he got his free suit Prime Minister
Menzies was given one too. At the last
minute Mr Menzies was persuaded to
change over from his old - fashioned
double-breasted style, and the suit was
remade in a weekend.
It will be interesting to see whether Mr
Menzies will be justified in changing in
election year the style which won him so
many elections ; maybe he feels that a
single portfolio calls for a double-breast,
while a double portfolio is palliated by a
single-breast.
Dream Peaches
ItfANY American dream kitchen.s : says an
Australian woman returned from the
U.S., are only used for dreaming. She
and her husband stayed with a business
acquaintance and his wife. All meals
except breakfast coffee and toast were
eaten out. On a day when the two men
couldn't meet the women for lunch the
American woman met the crisis in the
kitchen amid the automatic stoves, wash-
ing-up machines and other gadgets by
opening a tin of peaches. Lunch was half
the tin of peaches, and a day or so later
a similar crisis disposed of the other half.
And an American boy visiting relatives
in Australia was completely entranced
when his aunt opened a parcel of peas
and began shelling them. He had never
seen them in pods.
The Hops-pickers
nPHE Melbourne columnist who, with
-*■ four assistants dedicated to picking
the brand and State of origin of 11 beers,
scored only 45, 40, 40, 35 and 30 out of
110 points each, could perhaps be excused
on the ground of progressive inability to
keep an accurate score. This is the
opinion of a panel of Sydney experts,
who say that anyone who could pick
Melbourne beer as Sydney beer would be
in no fit state to pick-anything.
The (Australian) Play’s
the Thing
oiR Laurence Olivier’s willingness to
lend his name, influence and drive to
the promotion of Australian plays over-
seas suggests that his favorite role is
ambassador for Australian culture. Twice
in the last four years he has introduced
Australian plays to London audiences,
and before 1961 is out he will do it again
with the Alan Seymour play, “The One
Day of the Year,’’ now running at Sydney
Palace.
Cultural ambassadorship is not all
there is to it: Olivier is a hard-headed
businessman, in theatre-management for
money—and his gamble on “The Summer
of the Seventeenth Doll” rewarded him
with a bonanza. His, and a good many
other fingers were burnt by his second
production, “The Shifting Heart,” and a
lesser man might have given Australian
plays away—but the Seymour play has
him in there punting again.
Barely half a dozen Austialian plays
have reached the West End boards in
this century : three in four years will be
an astonishing record, and should stir
playwrights to an activity from which an
Australian school of drama may emerge.
They will certainly be encouraged by
seeing that Olivier does not take his cue
from prig complaints often made in Aus-
tralia that plays about sleazy Australian
backyards should not be exported.
Olivier will have observed, of course, that
the great mass of London theatregoers do
not live at the Savoy.
INDEX
Vol. 82
No. 4238
May 3, 1961
9 Again at Work
(Melbourne University
Communists) 7
9 Off-beat Doctors 8
9 Defence in the North 11
9 How Not to Pay Debts 14
Aboriginalities 28
Answers to Correspondents 59
Business, Robbery, etc. 36
Consumer-Observer 26
Letters 44
Look Back At Anger 35
Overseas 23
Personal 18
War and Prosperity 16
• The Cagey Ex-Communist 17
• Rocky the Rig
Short Story by Xavier
Herbert 50
Plain English 6
Political Points 22
Red Page 30
Shows 39
Society 3
Sport 42
This Australia 19
Wild Cat Columns 55
The Bulletin Mewspnpo Co Ply Lta Box 2521 GP O . Sydney.
MASCOT AIRTHOUGHT
How odd it is that Mascot air
Should smell of things like tanneries
When all those aeroplanes are there
With such great whirring fanneries.
IAN HEALY.


Exportfreud igkeit
\l7hile Australians are grim as can be
in their drive to increase exports,
West Germans have coined a new word
meaning “export joy” to express enthusi-
asm in their international selling. Is it
too much then, for Australians to expect
such pronouncements as “The Minister
for Trade, Mr McEwen, last night made
a call for serious intensification of export
joy among Australian manufacturers.
Only export ecstasy could save us from
the present import anguish, he warned.”?
Addiction
X/Tvien Leigh’s utter addiction to the
* crossword puzzles in English news-
papers makes her always reluctant to
leave England. Maybe it helped her to
decide on this year’s tour of Australia
if she remembered a gift from a Sydney
fan on her last tour —a selection of a
hundred from the best Australian news-
paper puzzles. It settled her down nicely
for the rest of the tour, especially the clue
that said: “A place like Sydney or Mel-
bourne could have no such liveliness
without Miss Leigh.” Answer: “Viva-
city.”
Nolan Dustjacket
TTal Porter’s Wainewright novel, “The
Tilted Cross,” to be published by
Faber in the autumn, is to have a dust-
jacket by Sidney Nolan.
The Tie Rustlers
'T'he old school tie still ropes off
Adelaide society from those who
have it not. So when South Australia’s
master butchers at the May national con-
ference in Brisbane advocate a tie in
dark blue with a narrow white stripe,
like a butcher’s apron, onlookers will
await the beef from those social stud
champions, the St Peter’s Old Collegians,
for whom such a tie is the blue ribbon
of the universal show.
That was Society
Melbourne City Council sets an ex-
ample of thrift. Lately, it advertised for
a junior draftsman. It demanded that the
young man have a matriculation pass and
practical experience in surveying and civil
engineering; and it required him to as-
sist in surveying, keep office records and
calculations, and be generally useful to
the city surveyor (who, by the way, is
proceeding on a world tour with a dou-
ceur of £500). For these services the
young man is to get 28/11 a week, with
an annual rise of 2/11 a week, till he
reaches the dizzy height of £2/17/10 per
week. Beyond that point the imagination
of the Melbourne City Council refused to
carry its corporate stomach.
-—“Bulletin”, April 26, 1906.
The development of the internal ex-
plosion engine is the mechanical marvel
of the last ten years. A pint of spirit and
an engine that a man can carry under
his arm will take you about the country
on a bicycle at the rate of 50 miles per
hour; while a six-cylinder engine of no
great size has shifted a car at the rate of
nearly 130 miles an hour! Now comes the
news that J. Bull is preparing to build a
battleship driven by internal explosion
engines, with either petrol or alcohol as
fuel. This freak fighting craft will be
minus funnels and will show a perfectly
clear deck, so that its guns may be turned
in any direction. It will look like a flat-
tened whale in the water, and will prob-
ably be the thin edge of the wedge in the
way of replacing steam power by petrol
as the motive power of the world’s navies,
— “Bulletin”, July 2, 1908.
Every now and again some interested
person or persons shake up the agitation
against Sunday buryings in Melbourne,
and out of my sadness I am compelled to
enter a protest. There is positively no-
thing moving in Melbourne on Sunday
but the hearse, and if sacerdotal rage
against a Continental Sabbath leads to
the abolition of Sunday burial quite a
large number of respectable, right-think-
ing citizens, like myself, will be left ab-
solutely without resource. Pleasant Sun-
day Afternoons are too dull, the average
sermon is less edifying than the burial
service, and a funeral has the advantage
over a prayer • meeting that it offers
driving exercise. Having made Melbourne
too oppressively stupid to live in on the
Sabbath, I insist that the Puritans leave
us the privilege of being buried on that
blessed day.
—-“Bulletin”, December 17, 1908.
GETTING ON WITH THE JOB
“Because of demarcation issues, Sydney
County Council tradesmen had ‘sat down’ on
jobs lor two or three day% waiting for other
tradesmen to arrive, said Alderman F. Moran,”
The tilers arrived on our block of hind
Before the builders came :
“The brickies are late, but we will not
wait,
We'll work on just the same."
And so, from all other householders
That the experts can recall
We stand aloof with a red-tiled roof
That hasn't a skerrick of wall.
We were nailing our abstract pictures
To our wall of abstract air
When a gardener cut with a putt-putt-
putt
The grass that was not there.
“Come back," we said, “when we’ve sown
a lawn.”
But the gardener, he said "No.
Your grass has been mown before it has
grown,
And l ain't gonna mow no mo."
For you've got to be progressive,
You’ve got to be ready to learn
That it’s useless to rage over skipping o
stage
When the world is out of turn ;
And suppose you’re expecting the
builders
And the undertakers come,
You’ll be far better off in a permanent
coffin
Than waiting around for a home.
SWILLIAM


FROM SHARPEVILLE TO CEYLON
“Ceylonese troops shot dead 34 Tamil lie-down strikers.” — Press report.


PLAIN ENGLISH
How Not to Please the
Indonesians
The Prime Minister’s statement on
West New Guinea cleared what-
ever was left in the air from the ill-
expressed Subandrio communique of
two years ago. It would have been
an excellent statement to have made
two years ago; whether it is good
enough now depends on what happens
next. If it is true that the issue of
West New Guinea is a matter of
accelerating urgency and that —given
a fairly clear field —President Soekarno
will put matters to the test before Sep-
tember, a great deal more than a
statesmanlike statement is needed, and
needed at once.
The simple fact is that there is no
sign that anybody is doing anything.
The Dutch have precipitated Papuan
self-government to show their good
faith. But beyond that almost any-
thing they do will be treated as pro-
vocation. The rest of us have care-
fully committed ourselves to nothing.
It is true that Soekarno rightly inter-
prets non-commitment to his side as
potential commitment to the Dutch.
This may restrain him. But if it is
true that he is driven by a Hitler-like
implacability to grab whatever is
going it may not restrain him. He
may (as Hitler did) interpret it as lead-
ing from weakness. If he does he may
try to finesse. What will we do then?
Why doesn’t the Australian Govern-
ment take the diplomatic lead while
there is still time to do so without
risking everything? We outlined in
The Bulletin a fortnight ago a plan
that at least seemed better than any
of the alternatives. It was that an
International Control Commission of
relatively disinterested Powers should
offer to take over West New Guinea
from the Dutch and act as custodians
of the place until the Papuans could
determine their own destiny.
If support could be found for this
plan it would allow the people of
West New Guinea to decide their own
future and it would make it diplo-
matically impossible for Indonesia to
effectively claim West New Guinea.
If support could not be found, what
would be lost? Some such idea cer-
tainly seems worth a try when the
alternatives all seem bound to lead to
Indonesian conquest of an area whose
future may affect our interests and
whose people may not want to be
absorbed into Indonesia.
To try such a plan as this would
impose a strain on our diplomatic
skill and stamina, but we have the
diplomatic services to handle it
(although we may have to concentrate
strength on the task). The Prime
Minister could continue to assume
over-all direction and responsibility for
the manoeuvre (but he would have to
appoint a full-time Minister to do
some of the running around). Then
why on earth don’t we have a go
at it?
Apart from those who want to give
West New Guinea to the Indonesians
there are three main answers. Some
feel that the matter is not as urgent
as all that, or that it-will-be-right-on-
the-night. We hope to God it will be ;
but what if it isn’t? Some demand
a plan that is guaranteed to work,
which means no plan at all. Others—
perhaps befuddled by the more inane
enthusiasms of summit diplomacy-
feel that no plan will work that will
not be accepted by the Indonesians,
and that the only plan the Indonesians
will accept is a two-year United
Nations trusteeship that will hand
West New Guinea over to them. If
diplomacy is to mean that the test of
a plan is that it be accepted by both
sides, there would be few workable
plans ; and if it operates in a situation
in which an aggressor is implacable
and no one else will commit himself
to anything, it will mean that the
aggressor always wins.
The Dutch will accept anything that
guarantees the independence of the
area; the Indonesians will accept
nothing except acquisition. There are
no bargains possible here. The best
we can do is to provide an arrange-
ment which does guarantee the
independence of the area in a way
that the Indonesians will not be game
to challenge. And that means that we
must risk displeasing the Indonesians.
Nations do not always get what they
want —thank Heaven!
Inquiring into Universities
'T'here are rumors that the University
of Melbourne may order an
inquiry into allegations first published
in The Bulletin that a Communist-
led faction tried to seize control of
the University’s Social Studies Depart-
ment. These rumors may even be
confirmed before this number of The
Bulletin is on sale.
An inquiry of this kind could have
a stimulating and beneficial effect. But
it must be a properly conducted
inquiry or its findings will be forever
contested by those who are disap-
pointed by the result. The endless
controversy arising from the Orr case
shows what confusion can be caused
if university inquiries are conducted
in an improvised way. For this reason
we feel that a university inquiry should
be formalised along these lines:
1. The aims of the inquiry must be
specifically defined. Otherwise it may
degenerate into a catfight in which the
issues are lost.
2. It is only fair that those who
virtually stand in the position of being
accused should have the case against
them fully stated so that they can pre-
pare their defence and reply in turn.
3. The hearing of evidence should
be to some extent formalised so that
the truth of individual assertions can
be tested in an orderly way.
4. The part es concerned should be
allowed legal representation.
5. The inquiry should be public, and
a transcript kept.
6. All parties should be given fair
notice of the inquiry so that they can
prepare themselves for it.
It will be surprising if the University
of Melbourne does not soon take some
action to restore order in its Social
Studies Department. To allow the
present scandalous situation in which
a department is split into two warring
halves to continue for much longer
may result in a loss of sympathy for
the university administration.
By OBSERVER
THE CHANGES
The Bulletin thanks those readers
who have continued to offer comments
on the changes made to the paper over
the past few months, and reminds
readers generally that such comments
are still welcome, even though it is not
possible to publish them.


Melbourne University Communists
Again at Work
A FORTNIGHT ago we gave an account of the disruption of the
Melbourne University Social Studies Department by a Communist-led
faction.
We told how Mr B, a Communist, tried to alter the whole running of
this department while its head was away on sabbatical leave. This involved
attempted intimidation of one member of the department, an attempt to
prevent members of the department from writing to its head, an attempt
to declare majority decisions “unanimous” and attempts to eliminate the
power of the Chairman of the Social Studies Board and enforce “majority
control” of research, restricting the powers of the head of the department.
He also arranged a number of “research projects” which, he maintained,
were no business of the departmental head. The conduct of at least some of
the “research” was unprofessional and reports were not issued. In this
article we give some of the facts about disruption of the Criminology
Department by Mr B’s faction.
The second target of Mr B’s faction
in Melbourne University was the
Criminology Department —a small
but important department with
access to Police Department records.
(Access to the files and confidential docu-
ments of the “punitive organs of the
Capitalist State” is a standard objective
of Communist parties everywhere ; their
value for sabotage and blackmail is
obvious; and Communist party work
among the inmates of jails is well known.)
The story of the Criminology Depart-
ment is shorter than the story of the
Social Studies Department but the out-
line is starker. It falls into two parts,
the first dealing with staff, the second
with control of research. It begins early
in 1958 when a member of Mr B’s
faction let us call her Miss D was
appointed lecturer in the Criminology
Department, with part-time duties in the
Social Studies Department.
Soon what at first appeared to
be an ordinary departmental squabble
developed. Miss D urged the Head of
her department to appoint Mr B’s wife
to the department. Mr B’s wife was not
qualified for work in the Criminology
Department, though she had spent a
year in Prague working for a Soviet-
controlled youth organisation. The Head
refused to appoint her, and relations
with Miss D quickly grew worse.
Since there was a shortage of rooms
in the Criminology Department Miss D
was temporarily given a room in the
Social Studies Department. She now
began to insist that her real department
was Social Studies not Criminology,
though she was on Criminology’s pay-
roll. She was active in Mr B’s faction
and supported the faction’s demand just
before the Head of Social Studies, Miss
A> went on leave, that she be reduced in
authority from being director of the
department to being a sort of secretary,
recording the policy directives of the
staff.” When Miss A was abroad, Miss
D > with the support of Mr B (then the
Acting Director of Social Studies) in-
creased the amount of her work in Social
Studies and reduced it in Criminology,
w here she was badly needed. She was
also appointed to all the committees set
up in Miss A’s absence to change the
Social Studies syllabus.
When new accommodation became
available in the Criminology Department,
a room was provided for her there, but
when the Head of her department asked
her back she refused to go and to vacate
her room in Social Studies. Only when
ordered to do so by the Chairman of
Social Studies and the Vice Chancellor
did she give up the room —but even then
she did not return to her own depart-
ment but moved into Mr B’s room.
The point of all this is that the deci-
sions about what work was to be done,
where and by whom, were made not by
the Head of the department, who was
responsible for the decisions, but by
Mr B’s faction. The Head was treated
with contempt.
Out Mr B’s biggest victory in Crimin-
ology was in “research.” As was
pointed out in the last article, he ex-
panded the Social Studies research com-
mitments when Miss A was away on
leave. They involved several thousand
pounds of public money, a good deal
of which was spent on inexperienced
researchers, including two members of
the Communist party. One of these pro-
jects involved the Criminology Depart-
ment. It was concerned with the children
of working mothers and cost over £2OOO,
part of which Criminology had to pay.
It was foisted on to the Criminology
Department by the faction’s manipula-
tion of the relevant committee and at no
stage was the Head of Criminology con-
sulted about the conduct of the research.
Whenever he inquired he was told Mr
B was in charge, and Mr B claimed the
Head did not understand this type of
research. Yet Criminology staff as well
as Criminology money was involved, and
the Head of Criminology would be held
accountable for the project. When Miss
A returned from leave she, too, tried to
get details of the research from Mr B.
He angrily and rudely refused to give
them to her.
Although the money provided had
been overspent and there was no evidence
that any progress had been made in the
research, Mr B wrote to the main public
body helping to finance the research to
ask for more money. His faction raised
a storm when Miss A discussed what to
do about the project with the Head of
Criminology, and using his old tactics
of rage and threat he announced that if
there was any further interference with
the “research team” they might abandon
the project altogether. As in most of
Mr B’s projects the research is not yet
completed.
In Criminology then, as in Social
Studies, we find a small Communist-led
faction controlling a department’s staff
policy and research and seizing it in the
name of “the staff” or “the research
team” by the tactics perfected outside
universities. As with the Head of Social
Studies, the Head of Criminology did
not at first know what had hit him. To
begin with he assumed he had an
unusually unpleasant example of a con-
ventional departmental squabble, but one
which would be settled by the conven-
tional methods of patience and tact. Only
slowly did he realise that he was faced
with something outside his normal ex-
perience in universities.
In a letter to The Bulletin on April
12 Professor Crawford said that a Com-
munist-led group “used the known tactics
of fractional politics” in an “attempt to
drive the heads of two small departments
and those loyal to them either into
acquiescing in the faction’s control of
departmental policy, or even into resign-
ing and leaving the field clear.” Pre-
sumably this is the kind of thing he was
talking about.
“ That's strange—he looked quite fresh when We left." ARKIN


Off- beat Doctors
“VS7HY don’t you see a doctor?” Australians have all kinds of reasons for sometimes providing “no” for an
™ answer to this question, but one of them is the fear that the doctor may be no good. More than a million
Australians at some time in their lives have tried instead “the wonderful man who fixed Joan up years ago.” He
may be an osteopath, chiropractor, herbalist, naturopath, Christian Scientist, a Turkish Bath man or a quack. How
can you tell the difference? This problem doctors, the B.M.A. and most State Governments refuse to recognise.
There are only three classes of people in Australia who want an answer: the thousands who have been cured by
“off-beats”; those who desperately seek a cure for the incurable; and the “off-beats” themselves.
Whatever sort of treatment you want in Australia someone provides it. This article has not been designed to
evaluate the claims made by “off-beats” but simply to describe what these people say about themselves, what
they do, what they are like and how many of them on evidence have claims which must be investigated.
By PETER KELLY
Osteopaths
IN one of the Victorian banks there is
£16,000 lying idle waiting for a
suitable person to decide to take up the
vocation of osteopathy (accent on the
“op”). No one will, of course, because
if they go to the U.S.A., study
osteopathy full-time for eight years and
come back to Australia, they will
be regarded by the authorities as
“quacks.” They will have enough
patients attending them, but because
of the parochialism of Australian
authorities, their lack of status will give
them the air of practising furtively. Five
years ago the Australian Association of
Osteopathy made representation to the
Victorian Minister for Health, Mr (now
Sir) Ewen Cameron to investigate
officially the claims of osteopathy. The
Australian Association wanted (and
wants) to achieve recognition for two
reasons: to protect its profession, and
the public, from quackery.
Although he had six weeks’ notice of
the deputation this Minister for Health,
a former stock and station agent, gave
the members a brief hearing and the only
statement he definitively made was that
“Victoria was very conservative about
these ‘fringe’ callings. I will put the
request before Cabinet, but I will not
recommend it because there are so many
of these callings on the fringe of
medicine.” But if the Victorian and
other Governments had even given a
cursory glance at the qualifications, and
status of osteopathy in the U.S.A., for
instance, they would have been startled.
Seventy-six years ago Doctor Andrew
Taylor Still, the “first” osteopath, toured
the north-eastern towns of Missouri
curing all sorts of ailments by kneading
spines, adjusting joints and prodding the
softer parts of the body. This rather
eccentric man, whose surgery was the
middle of the street and whose kit was
a bag of bones slung over his shoulder,
died in 1917 and left a legacy of medical
knowledge to the world and a universal
problem to the medical profession. In
the United States there are over 13,000
doctors of osteopathy giving more than
65 million treatments annually; there
are 400 osteopathic hospitals ; six train-
ing colleges ; and at least 6 per cent, of
Americans regard D.O.s as their family
doctor.
If Sir Ewen Cameron had investigated
he would have found that American
SIR EWEN CAMERON
“So many on the fringe”
osteopaths spend more time in classes
studying for their degree than do
ordinary doctors of medicine. Still, why
should the Victorian Health Minister
take into consideration that 38 States
of America accord recognition to
osteopaths? In Australia there are no
laws which effectively protect the public
or the qualified osteopath from quacks.
The 60 or so people who have set them-
selves up with impressive - looking
diplomas prominently displayed on their
walls are relatively free to occasionally
fluke a cure or permanently damage some
unlucky patient’s knee or spine. In fact,
according to the association there are
only 14 people in Australia qualified to
practise as osteopaths.
Possibly the best, but wordy, definition
of osteopathy is the one given by the
Australian Osteopathic Association in a
pamphlet called “Osteopathy, an Ex-
planation” : “It is maintained osteo-
pathically—that basically the normal
human body is a vital, self-sustaining,
mechanical organism which, given proper
food, pure water and air, with adequate
exercise, rest, and peace of mind, is able
to maintain health ; but the ideal con-
dition of health is possible only when
there is also a normal nerve and blood
supply to every organ and part of the
body. Derangements may be caused by
injury, falls, strains, tensions, and a host
of other reasons. Therefore, in the event
of trouble, the body, from its own
resources, will supply the necessities for
repair and adaptation, always providing
that irritating causes are removed, and
that the body itself, is, in structure and
function, mechanically correct.”
Partly because I was convinced of the
claims of one Australian osteopath, and
partly to see one in action, I took my
wife along for treatment of a knee which
had been troubling her for years. In
a clean, sparsely furnished room at the
top of one of Sydney’s highest buildings,
he poked, probed and prodded, examined
her spinal column, looked at her shoes,
and the comparative length of her legs.
He explained, and it was easy to see
when pointed out, that one of her legs
was “shorter” than the other because
of a compensatory habit of walking my
wife had adopted over the years. (He
also added that the short-leg theory was
often used as a gimmick by quacks,)
The treatment he gave was a slight
manipulation resulting in an impressive
“click” coming from somewhere in the
back. He then “prescribed” an exercise
to strengthen the knee and that was that.
The only complaint made was that he
had, in examining her, given her several
bruises. The Australian Osteopathic
Association has not set up a school in
Australia because there is not the teach-
ing staff here ; no hospitals could be
established to give students the necessary
clinical training ; and even if there were,
graduates would not be guaranteed any
status or protection. But as far as 1 am
concerned next time I have something
wrong with me I will go to an osteopath.
Not because his “cure” is certain—but
because he is more qualified than my
own doctor, and if he thinks I should
be treated by an ordinary Bachelor of
Medicine he will say so.
Chiropractors
YjyALKiNG into one chiropractor’s office
’ ’ is like entering any modern appointed
estate agent’s. The only visible signs of
his practice are a few pamphlets on the
receptionist’s desk and the “Develop the
ONCE-A-MONTH Chiropractic check-
up habit” sign prominently but discreetly
displayed beside a nondescript-lookinS
typist. Talking to the chiropractor he
gave the impression of a man who was
convinced of the value of his services to


agents: in the last 25 years this par-
ticular staff has treated 50,000 people.
The most publicised chiropractic case
waS in the Riverina when four-year-old
Heather Williams was stricken with
encephalitis in January, 1951, and lay
unconscious in Wentworth District Hos-
pital for seven months. Most doctors
said she would never recover from this
disease, but her mother in desperation
and acting on a recommendation decided
to enlist the services of a chiropractor.
Previously paralysed in every limb, she
could see, hear clearly, smile and wave
her arms and kick her legs by January,
1953.
In evidence before a Royal Commis-
sion in Perth last year an orthopaedic
surgeon claimed he knew of two patients
who had been harmed by a “manipu-
lator'’—the doctors’ slighting term for
chiropractors. In Tasmania, also last
year, a chiropractor was successful in a
court appeal against the refusal of the
Minister for Health to grant him a
licence to use X-ray.
Although no science can actually claim
to have started on any one specific date,
chiropractors claim that D. D. Palmer
‘'discovered chiropractic in 1885“ in the
United States. Chiropractic is defined
by the Australian Chiropractors’ Asso-
ciation as “the system of palpating and
adjusting the articulations of the human
spinal column by hand only for the
relief of nerve pressure.” The associa-
tion has a membership of 56 and accord-
ing to its spokesman there are 60-70
qualified chiropractors in Australia.
There is no college of chiropractic here
and to join the association members
must have overseas qualifications
“acceptable in law in the country of
origin.” Most Australian chiropractors
graduated from the Palmer School of
Chiropractic in the United States —
although there are two from the Lincoln
College which broke away from the
Palmer school years ago. In Melbourne
there is a school which teaches
osteopathy and chiropractic, but most
chiropractors and osteopaths smile
derisively when discussing it or evaluat-
ing its claims.
Contrary to most people's belief, chiro-
practic has legislative recognition in the
Medical Acts and Physiotherapists Acts
of Western Australia and New South
Wales. South Australia alone has a
Chiropractic Act. In N.S.W., Victoria
and Tasmania, qualified chiropractors
are licensed to use X-ray for purposes
of spinography under a mysterious-
sounding piece of legislation known as
the Radio-Active Substances Acts. South
Australia and Western Australia allow
chiropractors to use X-ray for spinal
analysis purposes. Most States in the
U.S.A. allow chiropractors to practise
as well as Switzerland, Mexico, some
Canadian Provinces, and New Zealand.
If the B.M.A. officials stationed one
of its members outside a particular chiro-
practor’s office they would be surprised
to see a couple of well-known doctors
attending regularly for treatment. One
chiropractor said he had not only treated
members of the medical profession but
also a prominent N.S.W. Anglican
bishop, some Catholic priests, an order
°f nuns, and some of the N.S.W. Bar.
Not a bad list for a profession which
the B.M.A. regards as “unqualified.”
In the white pages of the Sydney tele-
phone directory there is a person listed as
a music teacher, but turn to the pink pages
and you will discover he is a chiropractor.
If you want to become a chiropractor
“of sorts' there is one man in Sydney
who will issue you with a diploma at
the end of a course of six weeks—for £5O.
Other chiropractors (not members of the
Chiropractors’ Association) also describe
themselves as naturopaths, osteopaths,
and physiotherapists.
Naturopaths
tn a room full of expensive - looking
I equipment rather l.ke a photo-
grapher's rooms, 1 not only heard all
about naturopathy here and abroad but
allowed a '•practising naturopath" to
"treat" me. (My wife adamantly refused
to be the "guinea pig" this time.) First
of all he used an "electroscope" to listen
To'Sd" :1he a
was startling to hear the regular poom.
poom, poom, and then a gush sound
every now and then. Mv naturopath
said 1 had a “nervous” heart and asked
me if I would like it “treated.” He
felt along the top part of my spine and
rediscovered a spot which had intermit-
tently ached over the years. He then
got me to cross my arms, placing my
hands on the opposite shoulders, and
putting his arms around me from the
back, pulled me over till I was “standing”
only on my heels. Then he squeezed and
there was a loud “click.” He asked if
it felt any better and I said it did—not
bothering to add it was mainly because
he had let go. The naturopath then said
my nervous heart if it were to be “effec-
tively” cured required changes in my
diet, rest, and possibly some of his
specialised “medicine.”
There are approximately 2000 people
j n Australia who are calling themselves
naturopaths, but the Australian National
Naturopathic Association has only 56 of
these whom it regards as qualified. The
association runs part-time colleges in
Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria
and South Australia. Graduates must
reach a stage acceptable to a National
Board of examiners and must answer 520
examination questions, prove an attend-
ance of 300 lecture hours at its colleges,
and servc 4000 hours “in an approved
clinic -" Before booming eligible for
membership intending members must
P r °° f “ f successful Practice as
Naturopath, Chiropractor Osteopath or
Herbal,st or a period of no, less than
*« Vf <T he , ™ les <* the f
do st » ts I wh » t unsuccessful practice
eSshS
in Au f a,iL which
'on from kindred organisations m the
U.S.A. and Great Britain,
Pierre V. Marchesseau, president
of the French Society of Natural Hygiene
and Medicine, in a pamphiet, “What is
Naturopathy,’ says: “In conclusion,
Naturopathy is the philosophy, science
and technique of Natural Hygiene and
Medicine which endeavors to unfold the
fresco of biologic knowledge of man. It
has the duty to produce haimony of
health and vitality by nature s methods,
In its struggle for status and lecogrn-
tion in Australia the Australian associa-
tion introduced to the Victorian Minister
of Health. Sir Ewen Cameron The same
one who dismissed the osteopaths a Dr
Arno Koegler, president of the Canadian
Naturopathic Association, and piesident
"I will awake at six and bring your breakfast to bed."


since 1955 of the International Society
of Naturopathic Physicians. The associa-
tion claims that the B.M.A. “got at” Sir
Ewen by throwing into disrepute the
“science of naturopathy.” The Minister,
it is alleged, gave Dr Koegler only a brief
hearing and was “almost rude to him.”
The association further claims that the
B.M.A. “gagged the dailies” because they
circulated 70 public-relations handouts to
the press and only three papers mentioned
his visit. In another association pamphlet
they say: “Why is it that in spite of
enough ham-stringing and hobbling, per-
secution and prejudice to kill a hundred
professions or businesses, the Natural
Methods of treatment have grown to such
proportions? To the intelligent mind
there can only be one explanation, and
one word to describe it —RESULTS!”
And to demonstrate this Blackmore
Laboratories has produced a book called
“Writing a Wrong” which lists 1442 cases
cured by Australian naturopaths and 742
copies of unsolicited testimonials from
patients. One typical extract is number
1439 which states: “It has been my lot
to attend the Blackmore Clinics at various
times, suffering from such complaints as
arthritis, displaced discs in the spine and
gastric ulcers. From my own personal
experience, the doctors I attended at
various times only gave me relief for a
short period, while the Blackmore Clinic
effected complete cures.”
Herbalists
/T'o up any back lane, or down side-
streets on the fringe of any capital
city, climb up a narrow flight of stairs,
or risk a rickety old lift and walk down
dark, grimy passageways and follow your
nose and you will find a herbalist. Most
people expect the herbalist to be Chinese,
but The National Herbalists’ Association
of Australia, like the 8.M.A., frowms upon
“unqualified practitioners.” For years
old-age pensioners, the middle-aged and
young converts have been going along to
their particular herbalist with a couple
of empty bottles wrapped in brown paper
tucked under their arm, to get their
weekly or monthly “drop of the goods.”
It is anyone’s guess how many herbalists
there are in Australia, but the N.H.A.A.
has 56 members, mainly in N.S.W., whom
it regards as “qualified to practise.” It
also has a couple of members in New
Zealand and Burma. The association
was registered under the Companies Act
of N.S.W. 1899-1900, in 1920, and revised
in 1952. It is affiliated with the National
Institute of Medical Herbalists of Eng-
land and “two years ago, Her Majesty the
Queen graciously granted the Associa-
tion a Coat of Arms.”
Herbalists say they were the ones who
cured the Great Plague of London when
all the “orthodox physicians” had failed.
“People are herbally minded,” one
herbalist told me. “Most of the authori-
ties are in the groove of orthodoxy.”
Asked to define a herbalist, he said, “A
herbalist is a herbal doctor.” Another
definition might be that a herbalist is one
who practises the art of healing by using
“Nature’s herbal remedies.” Herbalists
claim to cure such things as asthma,
bronchitis, rheumatics, skin complaints,
liver and stomach disorders by giving
people, in an appropriate mixture, herbs
from all over the world. Harmony with
nature is the slogan of the herbalists.
To become a member of the associa-
tion “any person engaged in the confi-
dential management and control of the
business of a herbalist or botanical
therapeutist, and of moral character, shall
be deemed eligible.” Members must
also be over the age of 21. To become
a herbalist you have to serve an appren-
ticeship to a practising and recognised
member for five years. At the end of
this period the apprentice sits for an
examination and if successful “shall be
recommended for registration and a
diploma granted.” Apprentices are taught
by their masters anatomy, physiology,
bacteriology and diagnosis of disease
(mainly through iridology).
Spiritual Healing
/Christian Scientists of “off-beat”
medicine claim to cure all sorts of
disease, so they must be included in a
report on “off-beat” medicine. Christian
Science dates back to 1879 to its founder,
Mary Baker Eddy, who stated that the
objects of Christian Science were: “T 0
organise a church designed to com-
memorate the word and works of our
Master, which should reinstate primitive
Christianity and its lost element of heal-
ing.”
A few doors down the street from
where you live —in a trim, typical little
suburban house —there may be one of
Australia’s 141 Christian Science prac-
titioners kneeling in a bedroom deep in
prayer, healing somebody who may be
one or 101 miles away. Sometimes prac-
titioners have “consulting” rooms, visit
their “patients" or just stay at home and
heal. The practitioner sometimes charges
a fee, but normally relies on “the volun-
tary offering” of the patient.
Christian Science authorities claim to
have “documentary proof” of their suc-
cesses. One such documentation is that
published in the “Christian Science
Sentinel” of December, 1952, and written
by (Mrs) Annie A. Padman, Randwick,
N.S.W. Mrs Padman fell over and
broke her arm in two places. “1 had
very little understanding of Christian
Science, but I had great faith in God's
power. While the practitioner was pray-
ing earnestly the arm was set then and
there by mental surgery. This was very
wonderful to me and brought great joy.”
Mrs Padman also had “an ugly growth”
on her neck. She claimed that after
prayer, “Three days later while 1 was
taking my bath the growth slipped pain-
lessly away.”
This is only one example of the many
who claim to be cured by Christian
Science. Under the laws in the different
States of Australia, Christian Scient : sts
have complete freedom to practise their
religion, or, in other words, to “heal.”
People paying fees to practitioners, unfi.e
most “off-beat” pec* le, can claim a
deduction from their income-tax.
A B.M.A. spokesman in N.S.W. said
they make no differentiation between
any of the “off-beats.” They regard them
all as “unqualified medical practitioners”
The way the B.M.A. “protects the pro-
fession and the public” is through having
legislation to prevent these “dogmatists
from advertising.” If people want to
practise these particular things they
should become ordinary qualified doctors
first, and then take up the particular study
they are interested in. The spokesman
went on and offered the position of
optometrists and physiotherapists as
examples of what can be achieved by
working in “with the responsible authori-
ties.” These groups, he explained, con-
fined themselves, by agreement, to certain
parts of the body and certain limitations
of practice. When asked if they were
giving any consideration to the increas-
ing problem of “off-beat” medicine he
said “no.” And with that the public,
who are liberally patronising the “off-
beats,” and being cured by them, and
the “off-beats” themselves must be satis-
fied. But this attitude explains why in
a rather desperate struggle for status
and respectability, in the dying hours of
the Victorian Labor conference last year,
a motion was passed seeking recognition
for chiropractors.


Defence in the North
■ons instead of on men, Australian military planning has never
what the crudely armed Chinese forced the heavily and scientifi-
cally armed U.N. forces in Korea to a stalemate.
By EK DUM
One of the difficulties in the way of
efficient Australian home-defence
is the conception nurtured in
recent years that security is the
concern only of the Federal Government
and the Defence Department bureau-
cracies.
The great scheme of the years before
World War I, which gave us the Citizen
Forces, arose out of popular agitation,
largely fostered by the Labor party and
warmed by the innate antipathy of the
party to professional soldiers. It was
made possible by public opinion and by
the personal enthusiasm of thousands of
Australians who made a hobby of volun-
teer military service and who either spent
large sums of their own money to perfect
lancer regiment equipment or were
sufficiently enthusiastic at least to serve
and provide their own horses and equip-
ment.
Training in those unsophisticated days
before push-button warfare was treated
as a form of sport. There was, before
1912, a competitive spirit entirely absent
from the formalised camps of today in
which, whatever the nature of the train-
ing, the C.M.F. are expected to copy the
Regulars under the supervision of Regu-
lars, while at the same time the doctrine
is taught, in effect, that only firepower
and mechanical mobility count.
I have yet to hear of a lecture delivered
at military level in the past decade in
Australia in which it is pointed out
exactly how far Chinese manpower and
morale triumphed over all the huge
mechanical equipment, transport, elec-
tronic communications, firepower
mobility and hot beer in the trenches of
the United Nations forces in Korea.
Yet the Korean war provided a won-
derful lesson in the essentials of Aus-
tralian localised defence. For it showed
the destructive power of a courageous
and determined force, ill-armed by our
standards, rationed on a most meagre
basis, clothed in bare necessities for
warmth, but with local knowledge and
accustomed to its surroundings, when
pitted against the most modern equip-
ment. It showed what local Australian
forces could do under the same circum-
stances in their own alley if they knew
what to do, who was to direct them and
where and how to get simple weapons.
The Chinese and North Koreans with
their burp guns and crude grenades again
and again fought to a stalemate or into
retreat the U.N. forces with a vast navy
and mercantile marine, unlimited air
transport and air support and guns to
burn, along with command of the heavy
industry and food resources of the whole
civilised world and five million men
behind them.
There is a distinct coyness about mili-
tary discussions of the facts centring
round the knowledge that these mostly
crudely armed troops inflicted 150,000
casualties on the scientifically clothed,
fed, armed and transported United
Nations Armies. It continues to be sug-
gested, if not actually argued, that a
civilian population dispersed like our
own is powerless in the face of nuclear
arms and that one Seventh Fleet or one
fusion bomb is worth more as a bastion
than a million men who know how to
shoot a rifle or use a bayonet or burp
gun or throw a grenade.
The Korean campaign—and in part
the Eastern Front campaign in Europe
before that —posed the essential problem
in Australian defence: the on-the-spot
defence against multiplied military sur-
prises comprising, in the whole, an
invasion.
As I have written in articles before, the
problem concerns in the main, not
weapons and firepower but man, the
actuating machinery of everything in war.
And this is the more true where attack
is dispersed and invaders tend to arrive
in small batches but necessarily with
complicated equipment to give them
heavy firepower and means of survival.
The modus operandi of an enemy
deciding to attack Australia would
be in two parts or more. If we could be
sure that it would be limited to the firing
of a few nuclear shots to put the capital
cities, the industrial areas, the ports, the
key rail junctions, the fuel centres and
heavy industry out of action, the problem
of defence would be concentrated. But
this measure would probably be adopted
only in extreme circumstances.
TThe strategic position of the Common-
wealth far out on the flank of Asia,
but so accessible to and from it, makes its
problem in war one of opportunity to
use rather than of denial to friend or foe.
Its fuel, food resources, metals and
industry, timber, wool and scientific
equipment at its present stage of develop-
ment are invaluable prizes which any
enemy would try to secure intact if pos-
sible. They would be no use demolished.
There would certainly be bomb attacks
for purposes of demoralisation. Can-
berra, for example, might be a number
one target. So, very likely, would be
military roads and railway junctions.
But the most likely method of
approach would be a swift and wide-
spread infiltration, basically by small,
mobile units, calling for distribution of
defence, first of all in centres of food
and wool supply, capture of which would
One point where invading paratroops might try to land is in the flat lands
near the south-east corner of the Gulf of Carpentaria.


strike at the power of survival of the
nation and at its communications, land,
air, sea and telephone, telegraph and
radio.
It must be remembered that infiltration
is a basic Communist tactic.
This invasion might have several foci.
Or it might, for a beginning, have only
one. Virtually the whole of Australia’s
survival and industrial resources lie east
of the 130th meridian. Suppose an
enemy decided to make one stroke to
secure control of most of this area and
put the busy and highly populated indus-
trial area strung out along the east and
southern coast into a sandwich of attack
from sea and land. Where could it find
a single landing area that would serve
its purpose for the seepage of its forces
right through the interior in the shortest
possible time, to be used from within for
attack on most of the coast towns and
ports? Where is the point, having regard
to the facts that the peacetime strength
of the Australian land forces amount to
one man per 60 square-miles, and the
Air Force would be engaged in vital tasks
round the industrial areas and big cities,
that an enemy could land and from
which he could best distribute small
packets of specialist parachutists, self-
contained, in a hundred centres over-
night?
Qne logical landing area would be in
the Hat lands near the south-eastern
corner ol the Gulf of Carpentaria. The
nature ol the country is such that gliders
could land in numbers without difficulty,
a lot ol fast light aircraft could use the
surface for emergency landing and take
°ft- The district is 700 miles from the
primitive Dutch New Guinea coast.
Adjacent waters are suitable for seaplane
landings. There are few local inhabi-
tants. Normal access from the south is
not easy. From such a base, in such a
position, a single commando group by
road and parachute-drop could establish
control over a vast inland area, over the
whole of the communications northward
to Darwin—railways, roads, stock routes
—and water and population. That is, if
there were no effective preparations for
resistance.
Established in the Burketown-Norman-
ton area the enemy base would be:
(a) at the eentre of an inner circle 200
miles in radius, over any part of which
parachute detachments could be
dropped in half an hour, and the cir-
cumference of which would embrace
most of the Carpentaria cattle country,
>it. Isa and the main communication
lines by air and from the East to the
Northern Territory.
(1>) at the centre of another circle, 400
odd miles from Townsville, h«ng-
reach, Tennant Creek, Newcastle
Waters and the Roper River mouth,
on its perimeter and with the whole of
the Barkly Tableland and a section of
the Darwin-Alice Springs Road and
air route and O.T. Line included.
(c) at the centre of a still larger circle,
the perimeter, 800 miles away, any part
of the interior of which could be
reached in two hours flying or less.
Near the perimeter would be the Owen
Stanleys and Moresby in New Guinea,
Gladstone, Taroom, Roma, Hunger-
ford —on the Quensland-N. S. Wales
border—Marree, Coober Redy, Lake
Mackay, Wyndham, Melville Island
outside Darwin, embracing the whole
of the Arnhem coast.
The enemy base would be about 1000
miles from Brisbane, Broken Hill and
Port Augusta.
At present there is not a single
localised precaution that I can think of
that has been taken to deal with batches
of parachutists merrily dropping all over
these circular patches covering most of
Queensland and the populated interior.
Such a plan must, in terms of attack
and defence, be thought of in terms of
manpower. It would be inevitable that
with the invaders’ heavy firepower and
ability to move—for almost certainly the
parachutists would have vehicle s—
defence would resolve itself into a fight
to kill the invaders as they arrive, and
primarily to have something to kill them
with and know how to go about it.
TThough the overall problem is unified,
each local operation presents a
different problem according to the nature
of the country, the objective to be served
by the invaders and the strength of the
locals. Overall it calls for swift local
and general mobilisation of manpower on
the spot and for having the resources on
the spot to mobilise weapons and local
transport.
It would have been easier to establish
a precautionary basis for this sort of
defence before World War I. Training
of the A.I.F. in 1914-16 was speeded-up
and helped by the fact that there were
few Australians who then could not
handle a gun or who hadn’t had bush
experience of hunting of game ; few who
did not own a firearm, if only a pea-rifle
or an old muzzleloader—a fearsome
weapon with a glass marble or some
cut-up nails rammed down the barrel.
Today it is hard for a civilian to own
a firearm, much less to have the chance,
or to want, to use it for sporting pur-
poses. The present run of military fire-
arms call for a good deal of preliminary
instruction and skill in usage, plus a lot
of trouble in conservation.
The first essentials in precautionary
local defence are that it shall be
organised locally and led locally, that it
shall have weaponry easily kept in order,
light to handle and transport along with
its ammunition.
There is a great deal to be said for the
small calibre rifle. Even the old M.E. .210
single-shot cadet rifle is a bush gun not
to be sneezed at —one that an accustomed
user can load and fire nearly as quickly
as a magazine rifle ; light to carry, easy
to keep in order. But the ideal seems
to be the high-power .22 or .25, both
lethal weapons, handier in the bush than
a military rifle, easier to learn to shoot
with, with less to go wrong than in the
military rifle, if not so shootable in mass
firing as specialist weapons like the
F/N. Anybody who has seen a kangaroo
hit with a .22 from a highpower Savage
or Remington will have no doubts about
the effectiveness of this kind of rifle as
an emergency weapon.
At any rate, the simpler the weapons
the better. And the more of them there
are in the right places the better. The
basic venue for training seems to be the
schools, where every boy of responsible
age could be well taught without much
call on his time to handle a light weapon
and what to do in the case of the need
for quick defence action. And in the
next war not necessarily by uniformed
soldiers. The last war in which uniforms
meant anything has been fought. The
next one will be “all in.”
Efficiency both at schoolboy and adult
cleaning rs > shoot-
ing with nfle, pistol, improvising
weapons, scouting, fast cross-country
movement, attack or defence in particu-
lar areas, with solid prizes and champion-
ship awards. The more local authority
and autonomy in these exercises— of
which even the Americans with all their
pentagonal obsessions are beginning to
see the value—is achieved the better, and
the more competitive the training is
likely to be.
Cadet training needs a new look and a
new outlook by the authorities. At
present cadets are limited to 38,000.
Hence the ridiculous position exists that
High Schools are on a quota.
Schools with, say, 900 pupils, mostly
of cadet age can only expect to have
corps of up to 90, largely because the
Staff Corps cannot envisage any cadet
organisation that is not basically
officered by Regular officers and operated
on an expensive and highly formalised
basis.
If an appeal were made to the senior
fighting officers of the C.M.F. who have
been thrown on the dump in the flower
of their usefulness by the new pentropic
theories to organise battalions of cadets
in their own areas and condition them
for future local guerilla warfare, there
might be less room for grumbling about
citizen defence, and less still if more
responsibility were accorded cadet officers
of school age. Catch ’em and train ’em
young is a basic defence theory.
TV/fOREOVER, the soldiers' clubs in
N.S.W. in particular which poker
machines have made wealthy could w’ell
have it put up to them that a large pro-
portion of the tens of thousands of pounds
that are going into their coffers and being
spent on wasteful luxury might be better
devoted to youth training in defence.
Training of youth for service by
returned men is a natural corollary to
war-time service, the passing on of prac-
tical experience and know-how.
Certainly there is no way of effec-
tively dealing with local attack by para-
chute or other enemy groups which have
broken through the coastal defence
cordon and threaten the freedom, means
of survival and major defence of the
Commonwealth except through local
training and organisation primed to act
promptly on its own initiative and kill off
the invaders before they damage us.
We would do well to modify the kind
of Americanised theoristic thinking that
now faces planners of defence and do
some original thinking about the prob-
lems set out above. Of course the basic
massive type of defence cannot be for-
gotten and neglected. But the country,
in view of its value as a base and source
of supply and know-how, is peculiarly a
temptation as an infiltration target.
The possibility of this kind of attack,
either alone or in combination with air
and sea attack and nuclear blast on big
cities and communication centres, must
be specially guarded against, more par-
ticularly since the Communists will no
doubt be ready to scream for scorched
earth and surrender to help along one
of their allies if an attack should come
from Russia or China or a satellite.


A Modern Child’s Alphabet
BY DAVID SWAIN
j|/J is for Migrants who used 1o be aliens':
but now that we need them tka/'re called "Newlustm!ms.
j\l 's for New Guinea : suck a burden to hold.
nothing but problems - mot copra -andcjold.
Q is for Opera House ; in between scenes
m could soon pay it off with some poker-machines.
U is for Parking : is anythin/] neater
than Daddy's solution? He's aotkis om mder.
Q is for Quota : if m take a few Asians,
some fxobk think, m can forestall invasions.
is for Royalty - it fills a yreat need:
if it didn't exist there'd be nothing to read.


How Not to Pay Debts
By MALCOLM D. BROWN
Suppose a man owes you £4O. You
send him a bill but he doesn’t pay.
You send him a reminder and he
doesn’t pay. You send him a final
notice, and he remains unperturbed.
You go to your solicitor. You explain
the matter to him. It takes, if the
solicitor is well known to you and used
to your line of business, 10 to 15 minutes
for the solicitor to take details. (If it
is the first time you have been to him,
it takes longer.) The solicitor then writes
the debtor a letter demanding immediate
payment and threatening legal action if
it is not paid. The debtor continues to
laugh. So far the unfortunate creditor
is out of pocket at least another £2 for
his legal expenses. The solicitor there-
upon is instructed to issue a summons.
The District Court Summons or the
Small Debts Summons costs him £1 or
£1 15s. in court fees ; if the debtor is
anxious to avoid service, it costs him
possibly another £5 to have him served
unless of course the creditor is prepared
to take maybe a couple of days off work
to do the serving himself. Having served
it the debtor continues to do nothing,
so the creditor has to sign judgment—
that is, prepare and have sworn an
affidavit of the service of the summons
on the debtor and prepare and have
sworn an affidavit of debt—and he has
to take these to the appropriate court and
have them filed. He also has to file a
judgment. All this will probably cost a
further £lO.
A judgment is then obtained and the
next step is to try to enforce it. There
is a writ of execution which directs the
bailiff to seize some goods of the debtor
and sell them to pay the judgment, but
in Sydney they have been infamous as a
waste of time and money—another £lO
or £l2. You therefore attempt to examine
the debtor, bring him before the court
and ask him some pertinent questions
about himself, his assets, job, wages, etc.
The debtor is then served with an
examination order requiring him to
attend court. That will cost a further
10s. or so in court fees ; it costs another
couple of pounds to serve it and you also
have to tender to the debtor reasonable
travelling expenses to get him to the
court. He may then attend the court.
Tf there is any chance of his ever having
■*- money he sends the money he owes
you a day or so before he is due to
attend court. You get, in addition if
you are extremely lucky, the costs of the
service of the original summons at the
rate which the court will allow you
(which is probably much below what
it actually cost) and the cost of the
original summons, say an extra £3. You
will receive £43 from the debtor. You
have in the meantime probably spent
at least £25 to £3O to obtain the money
from the debtor, giving you a net profit
of say £l5 out of the original debt of £4O.
But if the debtor is one of the majority
of debtors who does not care at all about
having the world know how impecunious
or in debt he is, he will calmly tell you
when he arrives in court about his small
wage, his enormous number of children
(most of whom are probably non-
existent) his wife, his generally indigent
circumstances and how he is endeavoring
to pay off a television set, a motor car,
a washing machine and a refrigerator,
etc. He is then examined, you find out
"It Wasn't the lousy couple of extra pieces-of-eight I objected to so much
as the demands for danger money, overtime and the rest”
where he works and garnishee his wages.
By this time your costs are probably
getting close to the full amount of the
debt. You garnishee his wages one week
and obtain, say £5, with further costs
of £2. He thereupon loses the job and
you have to begin again to examine
him afresh to get any money out of him
so that you have outlayed £3O or more
and you have got back possibly £5.
He may not turn up at the examina-
tion order, of course. You then, if you
have filed a proper affidavit of service
of the examination order and paid the
extra filing fee, and if you attend court
on the return day of the examination
order, get an order nisi for the debtor’s
attachment. You have to prepare, file
(another filing fee), and serve this on the
debtor —again all at your own expense;
you will never see those costs again. If
he turns up this time, the court will fine
him a couple of pounds (which does not
go to you to recoup your costs.) If he
does not turn up that time you obtain
an order absolute, and this time the court
orders the debtor to pay the costs of
that process.
Co in the normal case you outlay £2O
or so to get your judgment, anotner
£2O or so to enforce it, and you get
back nothing—neither costs nor original
debt You often double your losses.
The N.S.W. legislature has recently
decided that when you sign a default
judgment you will not be allowed any-
thing towards your professional costs so
that all your solicitor's costs have to be
borne by you yourself. The debtor pays
nothing. Further, you cannot recover
any of the costs of issuing the writ of
execution from him ; even if you are
subsequently paid, you cannot recover
the costs of issuing and serving the
examination order on him ; you cannot
recover any of the costs of attending at
the court to examine him and find out
what his position is. All this money is
money which the law for some reason
or other says you spent at your own
risk and you have no right to recover
from the debtor who forced you into
spending it.
It has a bright side, however, if you
are a man of substance and you have a
large number of debts, don’t worry about
paying your small bills yourself. If you
have any bills of the amount of less than
£5O do nothing at all towards paying
them until after you are served with an
examination order or a bailiff arrives at
your door with a writ of execution. If
by any remarkable chance the person to
whom you owe money has been so
foolish as to spend £3O or £4O to get
this far the amount of your debt to him
is only increased by an extra £3 or £4.
In the meantime you have probably had
a year or so further delay. The chances
of even half of your creditors doing this
to you are extremely slight.


all done by Hand!
J
*7 w/.v/» _vom’7 5/op running your f*
fingers through my hair.’’
“Special Branch man ,
mum.”
“ Suspension’s rough, but she
handles well.”
Les Tanner was “The
Observer’s” chief cartoonist
before he left last year for
England, where the very
exclusive Cartoonists’ Club
recently voted him the most
promising new cartoonist of
the year. He will be return-
ing to Australia next month
and his work will appear
regularly in “The Bulletin.”
“Henry’s very handy round the t house.”


War and Prosperity
Ulysses S. Grant
Robert E. Lee
The American "Civil War,” which started 100 years
ago, destroyed the world's illusions about war
and progress .
By M. H. ELLIS
When the American Civil War
began —it got into its first
stride exactly a century ago
(though its last veteran perished
only a few months since) —the United
States of today was not yet fully in one
piece. Its population was only 31 million,
of which about 4\ millions were negroes.
Five of today’s great States had only
joined the Union within the preceding 15
years—Florida and Texas (1845), lowa
(1846), Wisconsin (1848) and California
1850). The total population of these new
States in 1860 was not much more than
1.25 millions. Today it is about 37
millions and California, which had 92,600
people when it joined in 1850, competes
with New York over the biggest State
population in the Union at about 15
million. Two other States, Minnesota
and Oregon, only entered the Union in
1858 and 1859, Kansas only on the eve
of war. West Virginia and Nevada during
its course. At the outbreak, there were
only 35 States, but the full continental
limit of the Union had been nearly
reached after an accretion of 1,220,000
square miles in the previous 20 years.
Most of the country had a crude, out-
back rural population. Urban popula-
tion was only 35 per cent, of the whole,
against over 80 per cent, today. There
were only nine cities holding more than
100,000 and 392 holding more than 2500,
against over 100 and 4000 respectively
today. It was the United States of
Dickens.
The South was an island stranded in
the 18th century in which the staple in-
dustries were cotton and sugar grown by
great establishments of slaves ruled much
as convicts on the early Australian estates
were ruled. Slavery was not, however,
confined to the South. It was only a
little before the outbreak of war that the
free States had achieved the ascendancy
in Congress, the last slave State admitted
to the Union having been Texas (1845).
In the Kansas-Nebraska Act of 1854
the legislature had found the question of
slavery so hot to handle that, in defiance
of all previous compromises and the pro-
visions of the Constitution, it had flung
the two great territories into the ring to
be fought for on the spot by abolitionists
and anti-abolitionists like dogs fighting
over a bone.
The climax approached when the Dred
Scott decision of the Supreme Court laid
it down that under the Constitution no
slave or descendant of a slave could be
a United States citizen or have any stand-
ing in the Courts —the Chief Justice going
further and holding that Congress was
bound to protect, not to prohibit, slavery
and that slaves were property, not as was
held by many in the North merely a sort
of compulsorily indentured labor.
After that one thing led to another (in-
cluding “John Brown’s Body,”) until the
first gun of Fort Sumter went olf on
April 14, 1861, more or less by accident
it would seem, and the so-called slave
States with a white population of about
8,000,000 found themselves with a
black population half their strength and
a war on their hands. Unfortunately for
the South, though backward, it was too
rich in exports for the North to lose.
Though it was called a Civil War, it
was not. It was a rebellion by a region
which felt it was upholding sovereign
rights It was also a party war. It
could possibly have been avoided
if the Federal Government had not
antagonised some of the border States
into the camp of ‘ seceding” States by
making an issue of State sovereignty and
the theoretical right of secession which
was still very much alive in isolated
regions as the very foundation of civil
liberty. Even at the last gasp, when
Lincoln was calling up volunteers, Mary-
land and Kentucky tried to stay neutral.
The issue, therefore, at the beginning
was a question of sovereignty not
slavery. Lincoln had said at the out
set that he would save the union
by whatever means he could—by
maintaining slavery, destroying slavery
or half and half. His proclamation—
quite ultra vires his powers—designed
to free all slaves unless the rebel States
returned to their allegiance was not made
till the war had been running just on two
years. While his aspirations were no
doubt humane, they also were political.
He wanted “God on his side ; but he also
wanted Kentucky.”
r T"'HE war was not a nice war. In the
earlier stages the rebels with better
tactical command under Robert E. Lee,
lieutenant-colonel of the 2nd Cavalry,
and West Point’s most renowned head,
had the thick end of the stick. They
pushed their way to within 30 miles of
Washington, where they fought their
first battle —though the first blood had
been shed in a Donnybrook in Baltimore
when Massachusetts troops tried to pass
through to Washington. That battle was
well named Bull Run, rather than Manas-
sas, the Northerners providing all the
“bull” and all the “run.”
The strategy of the South was not so
good because strategy was not taught at
West Point, where most of the generals
on both sides had been trained. But
tactics and military art were better. The
South had a grim conscription which sent
the wounded back to fight as soon as they
could walk, and the ones that could not
into administration. The most successful
Southern generals were the commanders
of the North who lost most of the battles
during the first two years, from McLellan
downwards. The only solid force the
South was fighting for two years was
Lincoln, who was a born strategist as
well as one of the greatest .politicians
of all time.
It was not till July, 1863, when Gettys-
burg and Vicksburg were won almost
together, that Grant turned the tide.
The Confederate Army had become one
in which the characteristics of the soldier
were described by Colonel Fremantle, a
visiting British Guardee: “his bare feet,
ragged clothes, his old rug and tooth-
brush stuck like a rose in his -buttonhole,
a devil-may-care confident look.”
These apparitions, 200,000 strong, were
pitted against an almost even million of
well-equipped but dirty and slovenly
Federalists in new uniforms towards the
war’s end.
HThe whole economy of the South had
been shattered. The great estates
had been wrecked by Sherman's ruthless
march to the sea. The slaves had been
freed, some very unwillingly. But the
vital thing about the war was the univer-
sality with which it destroyed old ways
and old illusions not only in the United
States but in the world at large. It
proved that war can be the fertiliser of
burgeoning progress.
It was the first war with modernised
weapons and in which railway transport
was used on a large scale, consequently
producing, during its course, vast expan-
sion of railways throughout the Union
and with it the land-grant system which
saw about 100 million acres handed out
to the subsidised or backed railway
systems to promote land settlement along
their routes. It made the telegraph an
instrument of continental communication.
It bowed out the old shot weaponry ; it
bowed in soldier welfare as a normal part
of war.
The abolition of slavery gave a tremen-
dous impetus to better farming and
mechanisation of farming. The war-
time tariffs, bumped up to the limit as
taxation, had given a new protection to
local industry, and railway development,
and the war in general, a flying start to
heavy industry and the immigration
needed for its factories and rural indus-
tries and settlement.
From being a savagely melting pot
spraying hate from punctured sides, the
United States became a boiling pot cook-
ing up a prosperity and a standard of
comfort such as the world had never
known.


The Cagey Ex-Communist
The last word one can use of Douglas Hyde is indiscreet
By BRENDAN O'HARA
When I went to see Douglas Hyde
in Sydney’s Australia Hotel the
other day I was surprised to see
him holding a glass of Scotch
in his hand. Surprised because he seems
to me to have something of the puritan
in him. I also wondered how a man who
is spending three weeks in Australia and
who will be attending many “sip-it-
politely” gatherings, could afford to risk
the indiscretions which good liquor
occasionally traps the best of us into.
I found out.
The last word one can use in describing
this 50-year-old ex-Communist and con-
vert to Catholicism is indiscreet. In fact,
the impression he gives is that if there
are any indiscretions made they will be
of the calculated sort. For nothing that
Hyde says, does, or even thinks is any-
thing but unpremeditated. He is, too,
cagey. He knows what he wants to say
and he says it. No journalist looking for
the “headline scoop” will get it from this
ex-news-editor of the English Commu-
nist “Daily Worker.”
“The Communists, I soon learned,
always had a great advantage over those
with whom they associated because they
knew exactly where they were going and
how they were going to get there.” This
is what he wrote in 1950 in his best-seller,
“I Believed,” and it is true of Hyde him-
self. He knows what he is doing and
why, and he'll get there. “I regard myself
first as a journalist and writer,” he told
me. “If for some reason or other, Com-
munism ceased to be a threat to the
world, I would still be able to write. I
am not a professional anti-Communist,
but it is impossible to write on
world affairs (and that is my job) with-
out taking Communism into considera-
tion. This is why we must understand
what Communism is and how it works.”
And yet the doubt remains—-is he a
professional anti-Communist? The trade-
mark of the professional is the words
which frequently slip into the conversa-
tion: “in fighting the Communists”; “the
fight against Communism”; “in the
struggle against the Communists” —Hyde
frequently employs the recognisable
jargon: “I don’t believe in negative anti-
Communism ; in the fight against Com-
munism we must remove the social con-
ditions which Communists exploit.”
In “I Believed,” published in 1950,
two years after he left the Communist
Party, he discusses what he is going to
do after he leaves the party. At first
be could not bring himself to lecture
despite all the invitations he received.
Then in what must have been one of
the most important decisions of his life he
says: “I decided that I must not, could
n °t, at such a moment, abandon the fight
to the Communists. In a few years’ time
] t might be even too late. In my lifetime
the issue would most probably be
resolved one way or the other:
Christianity or Communism.”
DOUGLAS HYDE
“I’m not a professional”
TiTANY people, somewhat self-
righteously, point to Hyde and
offer him as an example of how he has
defected from Methodism, to Com-
munism and thence to Catholicism. As
one journalist said, “Where will he finish
up?” But the point about Hyde is that
he has never defected. He told me that
even as a boy he worried about social
and religious questions. Hyde has never
accepted anything unquestioningly.
When he was a Methodist lay-preacher,
training to become a missionary, he
expected Methodism to solve both social
problems and his own personal problems.
When it failed to satisfy him, he became
a dedicated Communist. And no one,
least of all Hyde himself, studying his
actions, can doubt that he was largely
motivated by a desire to answer the social
and economic questions which confronted
men during the thirties.
Why did he change from the dedicated,
leading party member, to Catholicism?
“I was very impressed by Chesterton and
Belloc’s distributive justice ideas. When
I was forced to study Catholicism
because of an impending libel suit I had
to study copies of the ‘Weekly Review.’
Gradually I became interested.” I asked
him if he now agreed with Belloc’s and
Chesterton’s condemnations of the Wel-
fare State. He said that he believed that
it would have been better if the State did
not have to provide so many social
services and it would be better if this
were achieved by “men exercising
charity.”
I was rather surprised, and slightly
disappointed, that aside from generali-
ties, he appeared to have given little
thought to co-ownership and control of
industry. His comments were paraphras-
ings of the Catholic Church's Social
Encyclicals. “The two sides of industry
should learn to work together. It is no
good continuing to fight the class war.”
No, it is unfair and sheds no light on
Hyde to talk in such loaded language as
“defection.”
“What party do you vote for?” “I
don’t support any particular party —I
vote for the man I believe will do the
best job. I have been approached (in
Britain) by Labor to stand, offered a
safe Conservative seat, invited by the
Liberals, and (he laughed for the first
time) by the anti-partitioners of Ireland.
I want to be free of the restrictions im-
posed by political parties.”
Discussing the emergence of the “New
Left” in Britain he said it was not sur-
prising that the New Left was largely
made up of ex-Communists. “Most of
the ex-Communists who left the party
after Khrushchev’s 20th Congress speech,
and Hungary, left it because of what
they regard as excesses. But they have
never lost their Marxism. This is one
reason why Trotskyism has become
stronger in the world today.”
Talking about Castro and the invasion
of Cuba, Hyde said: “There appears to
have been a break-down of intelligence
concerning the decision to invade. Like
all exiles, they imagined that the people
were just waiting for their return to
overthrow Castro’s dictatorship. Of
course this wasn’t so. How could they
possibly have expected the Cuban sugar-
workers to support them when they are
still living on last year’s American sugar
cheque.”
It will be surprising if Hyde does not
cause some sort of rumpus in Catholic
political circles. His reasoning and
approach to Communism is markedly
different to the rather naive, sincere, and
relatively unintelligent understanding
which one picks up in too many Catholic
circles.
“I don’t believe, generally speaking,
that it is normally a good practice to
ban the Communist party. These are
the situations which the Communist
party exploits.” “Do you believe, speak-
ing as a Catholic, but not on behalf of
the Church, that the Catholic Church
should institutionally organise ‘to fight’
Communism?” And with the repeatedly
shown superb manoeuvring skill: “I
believe it is more important for Catholics,
and others, to become good journalists,
if they are journalists, or doctors, if they
are doctors, and attend their union meet-
ings, if they are unionists, and try to
remove the conditions which allow Com-
munism to breed.”


PERSONAL
Minerva Man
In 1939 a young man named James
Laurie carried a spear in “The Merchant
of Venice” at the new Minerva Theatre in
King's Cross, Sydney. It was to be his
only stage appearance, and he hadn’t a
line to say.
The Minerva had just been built by
David N. Martin, the Tivoli impresario.
It was strikingly contemporary, with a
clean, unobstructed auditorium seating
1000, and two small stages flanking the
main stage (a decade before Cinerama).
It was considered 20 years ahead of its
time.
On May 18, 22 years later, the Minerva
will reopen as a live theatre, after 11 years
as a cinema. And James Laurie, now
a successful producer, will present the
London and New York hit “The World
of Susie Wong.”
“Everybody was negotiating for the
Minerva,” said Laurie last week, sitting
in the Minerva stalls on a fast visit from
Melbourne, where “Susie Wong” is still
running. “Finally the Elizabethan and
Garnett Carroll gave up and took the
Palace. I kept after this place, and got
it for a year. If it goes, I'd like to stay
here for ever. I think it’s the most
beautiful theatre in the world.”
James Laurie, now 41, with a trim
beard and a French wife, has done quite
a bit of touring himself. He was a radio
announcer with 2GB in Sydney when, in
1947, he went to London. He did pub-
licity for the Royal Opera House, and
managed the Royal Festival Hall, before
going out on his own as a producer and
promoter.
In Britain he specialised in musicals
and popular music. His biggest money-
maker was Shirley Bassey, and his most
spectacular success was the complete
“Folies Bergere,” which he took to Lon-
don, complete with all the girls, costumes
and scenery, for 14 weeks. Then, last
year, he got the Australian rights to John
Albery’s New York production of “Susie
Wong.”
Laurie is paying Albery per cent,
of the gross takings—a royalty amount-
ing to about £l4OO a week from the Mel-
bourne production—but is still doing well.
“I’ve had my flops, but none yet in my
own country,” he says cheerfully. “I
think I can sense what the public wants.
I don’t claim to be a producer of epics.
I’m a purveyor of public entertainment.”
Heavyweight Virtuoso
Tsaac Stern, ranked by many as the
A greatest violinist of the day, is not so
great and so far above the ordinary man
that he can claim to be exempt from a
seven-year itch. The itch to visit Aus-
tralia. having possessed him in 1947 and
1954, bring? him here again in 1961.
Stern, who has just completed his open-
ing round of concerts with the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra, is yet one more
of those great musicians whose persona!
appearance and address flatly contradict
the swooning debutante’s dream of a
great musician as a gaunt sufferer eaten
ISAAC STERN
Turbine-turning Drive
out by his own art He’s “a tun of man”
in the Falstafifian sense, if not quite “a
ton of man” in the weighbridge operator's
sense The heavyweight of heavyweights
among the world’s great virtuosi, it is con-
ceivable that this Stern, jumping on one
end of a seesaw, could shoot even bulky
David Oistrakh off into orbit from the
other end.
A nonsense picture? Not altogether.
For no Australian who has heard Stern’s
playing on this and his earlier visits can
be in any doubt of the tremendous energy
of his whole personality, an energy that
not only gives turbine - turning drive to
his strenuous playing but also gives blast-
furnace refining to the most elegant and
tenuous music of his choice.
Now 41, Stern occupies an ambassa-
dorial place in American music-making,
corresponding closely to Oistrakh’s as a
supreme spokesman for the culture of the
Soviets —a point of some irony, perhaps,
since Stern himself was born in Russia
at just about the time when author Ivan
Bunin was being savagely sarcastic about
American babbitry in “The Man From
San Francisco.” It was precisely to San
Francisco that Stern, not to be discour-
aged at the age of one year, went to grow
up.
Among the many cultural missions
which Stern has made for the United
States Government was his spectacular
Russian concert tour of 1956, this being
in exchange for an American visit by
Oistrakh. At that time, Stern—a “man
from San Francisco” who was acclaimed
wherever he played in the Soviets—was
the first American artist to appear in
Russia for more than a decade.
In the past five years Stern has appeared
on all of the five other continents and
has played at almost every major music
festival, including three times at Edin-
burgh.
No doubt, to keep the mathematical
pattern of his visits orderly, Stern will
again visit Australia in 1968 and 1975 and
1982 and . . . But the Australian itch to
hear him runs to a much swifter cycle.
Secret Visitor
/”\ne of the most carefully kept secrets
was the visit of Agnes Sanford to
Sydney. Every night last week hundreds
of people converged on St Andrew's
Cathedral, but admission was by ticket
only—and that ticket had to be signed
by a clergyman. If you didn’t get there
half an hour early your only seat was
behind a pillar. In the pulpit was a
plump, grey-haired American woman
with a magnificent voice and the charm
and good humor of a favorite aunt. Her
books—the best-known of them is “The
Healing Light”—are read all over the
world. She had been lecturing to Sydney
clergy interested in reviving the healing
mission of their Churches, which the
early Christians took for granted.
The Divine Healing Groups which
have been forming in churches of all
denominations here are part of a world-
wide movement as little known as it
is remarkable. Agnes Sanford, who has
lectured and taught all over Canada and
the United States, is one of the more
widely recognised figures of this move-
ment. She is not the founder of any
cult and her Christianity is strictly
orthodox. Born of Presbyterian mission-
ary parents in Cashing, China, she
attended college in the U.S. and returned
to China, where she married an
Episcopalian missionary, the Rev. L.
Sanford. One of their sons was born in
China, the other son and a daughter m
the U.S., where the Rev. Edgar Sanford
was for 23 years rector of Trinity Church,
New Jersey.
Agnes Sanford became interested in
healing as the result of a cure she
herself experienced, later developing the
methods which she was demonstrating
to Sydney clergy and which any modern
psychologist would regard with pro-
fessional approval. In the last week of
her three-week stay she lectured every
night to the laity.
“We could not handle public lectures
to which people came just out of
curiosity,” one of the sponsors said, “This
was purely a teaching mission for groups
already working.”
Into the Silence: —
In Brisbane, at 72, William G. Hamilton,
Queensland Solictor-General from 1946 to lv-»-
Hamilton practised privately before joining tne
Crown Law Office, in which he was appointed
Assistant Crown Solicitor in 1927 and Crown
Solicitor in 1938. He was for many years chat-
man ot the Public Service Superannuation
Board, and after his retirement from the service
was chairman of the Literature Board ot
Review, the Films Commission and the Queens-
land Library Board.
In Sydney, at 44, S. H. Duff, C. 1.8. detec-
tive-sergeant who played a major part in tne
famous “Pyjama Girl” case.
In Hobart, C. H Ward, Tasmanian “original
who sailed with the first contingent in tne
Geelong in November, 1914. After the wa
he was employment officer with the R.S.L. an
later secretary of the Hobart sub-banch, an
between 1937-58 was secretary of the
Originals’ Association.
In Sydney, at 77, Milton Frith, grazier, hotel-
keeper and successful breeder and driver
trotters. Frith ran a saddler’s business t
Singleton for 25 years and established an aviary
and menagerie at his Murrurundi hotel.
In Adelaide, at 58, John Gardner, forniej
member of the S.A. mounted police and o
the Adelaide C. 1.8., and for 24 years a journ
list on Adelaide newspapers.


This Australia
The Mystery of Dr Evatt’s
Bench
IN N.S.W., the most litigious State in
the Commonwealth (there is more
litigation in Newcastle alone than in the
whole of Victoria), it has always taken
a long time to get court cases decided.
The reasons usually given are shortage
of judges and shortage of courtrooms,
but in recent months the position has
become more than usually severe with
the increasing backlog of appeal cases
which the Full Court has not yet decided.
(Some estimates put the number as high
as 80.) One of these cases may become
a cause celebre.
Last Friday, one of the most respected
barristers in N.S.W. attacked Dr Evatt's
Full Court over the length of time it
is taking to deliver judgment in a custody
case concerning a seven-year-old girl.
The barrister was J. D. Holmes, Q.C.,
and he claimed that the five months’
delay amounted to “a denial of justice,
in which, I think, it would not be un-
reasonable to say that the judgment of
Solomon would be more humane than
this lack of judgment.” The girl involved
is Caroline Kades, daughter of Charles
Louis Kades, a New York lawyer, and
Helen Patricia Kades, formerly one of
the best-known photographic models in
Australia.
Mr and Mrs Kades met in Japan in
1948, married in Canada in 1949, and
their daughter was born in Australia in
1954. In September, 1959, Mrs Kades
secretly left her home in New York and
travelled with her daughter under an
assumed name to Sydney. In October,
Mr Kades wrote asking her to come
back to America, where, he suggested,
she should have custody of the child
and he would maintain them both. Mrs
Kades did not answer this offer and in
lune, 1960, the New York Supreme
Court made an order granting Mrs Kades
custody if she returned to America
within 30 days ; otherwise custody went
to the father. Mr Kades then sent £7OO
to Sydney to pay travelling expenses back
to New York, but Mrs Kades did not
avail herself of this offer.
Mrs Kades then applied to the N.S.W.
Equity Court for custody of her daughter,
and Mr Kades came to Sydney to fight
*t. Heard last September, it was one of
the bitterest cases for some years. Mrs
Kades claimed her husband drank to
e xeess, belittled her, and on a number
°f occasions threatened to kill himself.
Mr Kades denied this, and affidavits
eu logising his temperance and integrity
Were read. The judge, Mr Justice Myers,
awarded custody to Mr Kades. Mrs
Kades, he said, appeared to be neurotic
an d emotionally unstable.
A few days later Mrs Kades appealed
to the Full Court, which ordered a quick
hearing. Early in November it reserved
judgment, but on November 14 it agreed
to hear fresh evidence that Mrs Kades
was not emotionally unstable. Since the
welfare of the child was the main con-
sideration, the Court stated, justice should
override procedural considerations.
Five months then passed before Mr
Holmes raised the matter again in the
Equity Court last Friday and asked Mr
Justice Myers to remove the stay of
proceedings on his order granting custody
of the girl to Mr Kades. “Both your
Honor’s order and the order of the
American Court have been completely
frustrated and stultified by this five
months’ delay. One can infer that the
judges in the Full Court are unable to
agree among themselves. One can infer
that they have not been able to make
up their minds at all. There is, of course,
another inference that I would be loth
to make—that no judgment at all is
proposed in the appeal.” Mr A. F.
Mason, who appeared for Mrs Kades,
also agreed it was “a mystery” why the
Full Court has not given its judgment.
Mr Justice Myers adjourned the
hearing of Mr Holmes’s appii;ation for
removal of the stay of proceedings until
May 8.
A Social
Experiment
At Allawah Grove it is not a crime to
fall behind in your rent, or to neglect
your children to the point where they
have to go to hospital. Allawah Grove,
the shabby housing settlement for
aborigines in Perth, which shelters about
100 men, women and children, has be-
come a playground for social workers.
No one would deny their sincerity, but
a recent statement by a Perth doctor
certainly throws doubts on their effective-
ness.
The doctor, who works for the Uni-
versity of Western Australia’s Depart-
ment of Child Health, said the prevalence
of disease among native children at the
camp was a serious threat to the health
of the general community. Poor living
conditions and dirty surroundings made
the camp a breeding ground for
dangerous diseases, such as trachoma and
gastro-enteritis.
Last summer, he claimed, 90 per cent,
of the 60 children in the camp were
suffering from trachoma, and not less
than four of them were always in
hospital. The doctor said that only
education and better living conditions
could bring an improvement.
Investigations by W.A. newspapers
allegedly revealed that drunkenness and
prostitution occurred at Allawah Grove,
and that natives so consistently broke
light fittings placed in the streets of the
camp that the State Electricity Commis-
sion had suggested the lights be removed.
Native Welfare Commissioner Stanley
Middleton followed these revelations
with a forthright statement that Allawah
Grove had failed as a social experiment
in the education of natives to the stan-
dards of urban living. He said the
natives were fully capable of looking
after themselves, but refused to do so.
He pointed out that the department spent
about £2OOO a year on the maintenance
of Allawah Grove, a sum far in excess
of expenditure on any other group of
natives in W.A.
Middleton’s pessimism is probably in-
fluenced by the fact that his department
wanted to close the camp in 1960, but
was overruled by a Ministerial decision
to allow the voluntarily organised Native
Welfare Council to supervise the settle-
ment and collect rents.
Though he did not say so outright,
Middleton implied that the natives would
be assimilated far more quickly if they
were scattered through the suburbs and
forced into assimilation. This system has
worked reasonably well in East Perth,
but it may not work so well with the
Allawah Grove natives. They may be
so used to avoiding basic responsibilities
like the payment of rent and getting
away with it that they may no longer be
capable of living up to white standards.
If the present situation continues,
Allawah Grove will probably be closed
and its occupants will be forced out into
a world of respectability which they do
not understand and which does not
understand them.
Dawn and the
Carpenter
ON the day on which a loitering charge
against Olympic swimmer Miss
Dawn Fraser was withdrawn in the
Adelaide Police Court, the same court
imposed a £5 fine, with costs, on a
Glenelg carpenter for the same offence.
He was also alleged to have called a
police officer a “ idiot.”
As one legal authority said: “What
would have happened to Miss Fraser
had she been less well-known? If the
facts are such, as stated by a police
prosecutor and leading Q.C., that a per-
son may be arrested for doing nothing
wrong and then let go again, then that
law needs to be changed.”
Adelaide has not heard the last of the
Fraser affair. Labor M.P. Don Dunstan,
who is also a lawyer, says he will call


for a full report when Parliament meets
in June. “I am concerned that this inci-
dent should have happened in the first
place,” Dunstan said.
Although the charge against Dawn
Fraser was withdrawn, nobody yet knows
what she could have been doing at
12.35 a.m. on a Sunday morning in
suburban Norwood. The Police Prosecu-
tor, Inspector C. Brebner, admitted her
innocence, then apologised first to the
court, and only then to Miss Fraser, for
any inconvenience—“if any has been
caused.” This was after she had been
publicly arrested, carted away to jail,
forced to arrange bail at 2 a.m. and sub-
jected to embarrassing publicity.
Though the prosecutor also puzzlingly
declared that the police “were fully justi-
fied in their action,” Miss Fraser’s coun-
sel —Mr C. H. Bright, Q.C. merely
thanked Inspector Brebner for his “fair
statement,” then turned on the press for
giving the affair publicity.
The court may have approved this
gentlemanly conduct, but it seemed
rather unfair both to his client and the
“Advertiser,” which had only been doing
its proper job of reporting the day’s
news —and staidly enough at that. Nor
did the Adelaide press attempt to explain
what really happened. According to Miss
Fraser’s coach, Harry Gallagher, it was
this:
The swimmer was driving back in a
friend’s car from the annual ball staged
by the department store she works for,
and asked him to drop her outside a
Norwood Parade coffee shop, where
some friends were waiting. The car
pulled up with a squeal of brakes, which
led two young constables to question
the driver. What was said is not known,
but Miss Fraser was ordered to move on.
When she told them she was going into
the coffee shop, they arrested her for
“loitering.”
This was done under a law peculiar to
South Australia. In other States police
have to prove “loitering with intent.”
The S.A. law says it is an offence to
stand in a street when ordered by a
constable to move on, or to so loiter
“whether obstructing traffic or not." In
fact, when three learned judges (Murray,
Angas Parsons and the present Chief
Justice Napier) debated the matter back
in 1934 they decided that even sitting
in a chair could be termed loitering “in
relation to movement, which he (the
person charged) had temporarily sus-
pended.”
This law was originally brought in
under the S.A. Lottery and Gaming Act
in 1917, when the Government was try-
ing to break up s.-p. betting. It enabled
police to deal with “cockatoos” without
having to prove they were on the look-
out for them. Then it lay forgotten until
the past few years, during which time
it has been invoked a number of times —
especially against university students on
Commem. Day.
In the Shadow of Two Giants
Tt was not only the mild autumn air or
A the South Australian wines provided
by their hosts that made the first national
conference of Australian publishers in
Adelaide so genial an affair. It was the
knowledge of having a record year behind
them and a growing response by the
public to Australian books.
“Last year’s figures show the highest
turnover on record,” the Australian Book
Publishers Association’s Federal secretary,
H. F. Weston, said before returning to
Sydney. “We are overcoming the preju-
dice that used to exist against Australian
books. The number published in this
country, compared with imported books,
is steadily rising. Export figures are also
climbing.”
Though the 42 representatives of 20
publishing firms met in closed session and
only the mildest of press statements was
issued, it was clear that the conference
had a confident view of the future,
despite increasing costs and some un-
resolved questions affecting distribution.
The later problem was deliberately soft-
pedalled, though there was an exchange
of views with the Australian Booksellers’
Association, meeting in Adelaide at the
same time.
The last day was given to a joint
session of the two bodies to discuss the
marketing of educational books. This is
an important aspect of the trade, not only
because of the big demand for textbooks
but because several publishers have been
able to produce a body of general Aus-
tralian work—fiction, poetry, biography
and criticism —out of the profits from
books for schools and universities.
All the same, publishing still remains
a risky business and only two or three
Australian firms have the assured turn-
over which enables their British and
American rivals to gamble on whether a
new author will sell or not. As Adelaide
University’s Professor of Education, L.
F. Neal, said in a polished after-dinner
speech at Glen Osmond Country Club:
“Your trouble is that you have to battle
in the shadow of two giants. You are
handicapped by having to use the same
English language exploited by the big
fellows overseas.”
Since Australians can rarely count on
the circulation figures that make an over-
seas edition profitable, they have only two
courses open to survive—to take a larger
share of the local market from British
and American publishers, or build up
export sales. It was for this reason that
delegates privately welcomed the renewed
strength of Angus and Robertson, which
seems to have emerged successfully from
the shadow of the Burns affair and intends
to reopen its London office. Several pub-
lishers commented on the vigorous and
unselfish policy of A. and R.’s in creat-
ing a demand for Australian books
abroad, and George Ferguson, once again
managing-director as well as seven times
past president of the A.8.P.A., was
warmly welcomed to the conference.
“We are not at all worried about the
competition of overseas books and feel
we can now hold our own,” the Federal
president, Harry Eyre, said. “As for the
effect of TV on reading, the pattern
becoming clear. It has affected V
demand for fiction, but has also incr ea
the demand for other types of books’’
The one unresolved spectre haunti
this conference was the current dem a
by booksellers for an increase i n S J
commission from 33| to 40 per cent
the retail price of books. This threateS
to upset the traditional one-third arrant
ment that trade has hitherto accepted-
more or less equal sharing of p roc J
between printer, bookseller and
lisher plus author. Informal discussion
between publishers and bookseller
stressed the dangers of a struggle f o[
the somewhat negligible profit margin
within the trade, rather than combining to
create a bigger and more lucrative demand
for books.
Out of this exchange also came a joint
decision to promote a National Book
Week later in the year, probably in
October.
Sucking the
Left Orange
“T nominate Jack the Anarchist.” But
Jack smilingly shook his black beard
and declined committee membership of
Sydney’s “New Left Club.” On the
gleaming ground floor of Qantas House
last Friday night a provisional com-
mittee, consisting of four people calling
themselves, respectively, an “outlook
Socialist,” a “Catholic radical,” a “co-
operative Socialist” and a “member of
the A.L.P. and a Socialist,” conducted a
meeting attended by 90 people to see if
there were enough persons interested in
starting a “New Left Club.’’ Libertarians,
Trotskyists, Anarchists, Australian
Socialist party members, A.L.P.ers, ex-
Communists, “Outlookers” and “Catholic
radicals” —every “Left” political sect was
represented.
“We are not going to prop up a dead
horse and flog it,” said scientist Dr Kemp
Fowler. “The only way to tell if an
orange is sour is to suck it. If there is not
enough interest in starting this club, well,
the whole idea will be scrubbed.”
Described as “the most provocative
speaker we could find,” Canberra’s
darling of the Left (old and new), lan
Turner, talked about “The Stagnant
Society.” Mr Turner’s favorite nightmare
is a world of stratified suburban con-
formity. He aimed his shafts at every-
thing: “Christian missionaries exporting
our corrupt society to the unspoilt
natives”; Communists and Trotskyists
strangling themselves with their umbilical
cords ; members of “Outlook” being so
pleased when one A.L.P. parliamentarian
smiled in their direction that they thought
they had seduced the whole Labor move-
ment ; The Bulletin and its editor
faithfully helping to build “our stagnant
society.” More positively, Mr Turner
said he believed in a world where there
was no bomb, no black and whitj
slaughter, no mass culture, and no social
inequality.
At 9.32 Sydney’s New Left Club
launched, and an hour later it was sti
stranded on a sandbank of points o


i er amendments, notices of motion
j [ maze of procedural passageways,
f committee of eight was eventually
lected with Mr Turner and a rather
bulky philosopher from Sydney Univer-
t acting as scrutineers. It is rumored
that the Bible of the New Left Club, to
hold its first meeting within two months,
u s been written by a fellow called
Joske, who wrote a book on rules of
procedure.
The Sunny
Bites Back
Queensland believes it has been the
bunny in the credit squeeze. In one
day the State received word that it had
the biggest percentage of unemployed,
the lowest savings-bank deposits, a net
migrant intake loss for the year and the
biggest building industry retrenchments
of any State.
The reaction to all this was apparent
at Saturday’s Brisbane City Council polls.
The strongly entrenched Citizens’ Muni-
cipal Organisation lost the election in a
landslide to the Australian Labor Party.
The Citizens’ Municipal Council had
been in power for six years—or for 18
years with the exception of a three-year
term from 1952-55. In 1952, Sir John
Beals Chandler, easily the most capable
Lord Mayor the city has known, crashed
dramatically in his bid for a fifth term
of office. The reason at the time was
spectacularly simple. The Menzies-
Fadden “horror” Budgets had been
brought down, and Brisbane citizens used
the municipal booths as a cheap and
quick way of expressing their resentment.
It appears that this year history has
repeated itself. This time the victim is
chartered accountant Aid. Reg Groom,
who will be succeeded as Lord Mayor
by surveyor Clem Tones.
An ominous sign was the loss by the
Q.L.P. (the equivalent of the D.L.P.) of
almost half its polling strength. It
dropped from 13 per cent, to 6 per cent.
At the moment, it appears that Federal
Parliament should see some new faces
from Queensland A.L.P. next year.
Meanwhile, it will be interesting to see
what Canberra offers Queensland by
way of appeasement between now and
the Federal elections. Treasurer Holt has
paid two quick trips north in recent
weeks and the P.M. himself is reported
to be on the way.
Fixing the
Price-fixers
pOLLowiNG allegations by Victorian
Labor Opposition Leader Stoneham,
Crown Law authorities are conducting
an investigation into price-fixing and
restrictive practices in the local timber
industry. Stoneham claimed recently that
a body known as “The Victorian Timber
Trade Stabilisation Panel” had set up a
rigidly controlled system of price-fixing
'n the Melbourne and Geelong areas and
nrat this had inflated building costs.
A week later Stoneham pointed out
that the price of scantling had fallen
by 1 Is. a 100 super, feet. “It suggests
that the panel thought it prudent to
reduce its excessive profit margins be-
cause of the publicity,” he said
triumphantly.
He went on to claim that similar price-
fixing arrangements existed right through
the Victorian building industry, covering
such items as paint, tiles and builders’
hardware.
The timber panel, which is listed in
the Melbourne phone directory, has not
denied Stoneham’s charges about price-
fixing, though it has denied that its
activities have inflated building costs.
It is co-operating with Crown Law
authorities in their inquiries and this
week sent a report on its activities to
Premier Bolte.
The panel consists of representatives
of the Victorian Sawmillers’ Association,
Tasmanian Timber Association, South
Australian Producers and the Timber
Importers’ Association. According to its
secretary, Mr K. Wilkinson, the panel
was set up in December, 1959, “To
correct the chaotic conditions then exist-
ing in the industry.”
The panel claims it is not infringing
any law, State or Federal, in laying down
wholesale and retail prices which are
observed by its members. As far as
Stoneham’s claim that publicity had
caused a fall in scantling prices, the panel
claims that the price change was applic-
able only to bulk deliveries and was made
in order to clear a build-up of stocks
from timber yards,
The timber-dealers, in other words,
are admitting that they fix prices, but
ask “Who doesn’t?” Apart from corn-
modifies such as eggs and onions, the
prices of which are controlled by State
Government boards, price-fixing by indi-
vidual manufacturers or by trade associa-
tions is commonplace,
Very few prices come about through
supply and demand these days and the
timber industry sees no reason why it
should suffer such vagaries when so
many other trades have tidied things up.
If and when the Federal Attorney-
General, Sir Garfield Barwick, brings
down legislation aimed against restric-
five practices, there might be cause for
action against the timber panel. At the
moment it is doing no wrong and is
merely conforming to the pattern of so
much Australian economic activity,
American businessmen are often
fascinated and horrified by the extent to
which prices are effectively fixed in Aus-
tralia by trade associations and indi-
vidual manufacturers. In the U.S.A.,
the Government gives a great deal of
attention to enforcing price competition
and to breaking up rings and cartels
designed to frustrate it.
The price-fixing which sent a group
A Passport for Tom Palmer
hthomas Henry Palmer is a small,
shy man of 25 years who wants
to settle in Australia and practise his
trade of engineering, but if he does
not leave the country within the next
couple of weeks he will certainly be
deported as an undesirable alien. The
trouble with Tom Palmer is that he is
part-Asian and looks it. Though he
is a British subject with an English
father and an English education, his
mother was Ceylonese.
Australia’s immigration policy,
according to a senior Immigration
Department official in Western Aus-
tralia, is that people who are not
predominantly European in back-
ground, outlook, manner, dress and
appearance, cannot be granted per-
mission to live permanently in Aus-
tralia, except under special circum-
stances.
Only the last qualification could
possibly apply to Tom Palmer. His
background, outlook, manner and
dress are all British. He is a junior
engineer in the merchant service who
went to school in Lancashire and has
always served in European ships.
Though he is not highly educated, he
is intelligent and ambitious.
When he left his ship in Fremantle
two months ago with his captain’s
consent he obviously impressed the
first Immigration official he saw. This
man looked at Palmer’s U.K. passport
and, according to Palmer and those
who have since taken up his case,
told him he would have no difficulty
in obtaining migrant status, provided
he passed a medical examination.
This Palmer did, but on the day
his ship left Fremantle, Immigration
officials told him they had not com-
pleted his papers, advised him to re-
turn to his ship and apply to enter
again the next time he was in Fre-
mantle.
Palmer ignored this advice, and
started the clash with authority which
has now lasted two months. Police
charged him with desertion, but
dropped the charge when he sought
legal advice. He went to Fremantle
M.L.A. Harry Curran, who passed
his case to Fremantle M.H.R. Kim
Beazley to place before Immigration
Minister Downer The answer was
that Palmer must leave the country
voluntarily or be deported.
Palmer has elected to leave the
country of his own free will if he can.
He may be able to ship on a freighter
calling at Fremantle later this week,
but if the ship cannot take him he
faces a bleak outlook. He left his
job last week to complete his taxation
clearance and is now down to his last
few pounds. If he cannot pay his
way out of Australia he will have
no alternative but to allow himself
to be deported.
It has been alleged that Palmer has
been rejected as a migrant because
he is technically a deserting seeaman
But most seamen who leave their
ships with their captain’s consent have
been accepted as migrants.


of electrical-industry executives to jail
in the U.S. early this year is no crime in
Australia. When the Federal Govern-
ment eventually gets around to bringing
in measures to outlaw restrictive prac-
tices, the A.L.P. will no doubt support
the legislation.
At the Gates
of St Malo
The French flag hangs limply over the
gates of Sydney’s St Malo, the
historic Hunter’s Hill home which has
become in recent years the symbol of
the battle between bureaucrats and lovers
of Beauty, the Gracious Past and Old
Homes. On May 5 a sheriff will arrive
with an order to remove all goods, per-
sons and chattels therefrom. The road-
builders are at the gates, ready to con-
tinue the new Northern Expressway
through the St Malo site.
Less than two years ago a fighting
fund for the preservation of St Malo was
organised. Cars carrying protest placards
drove in processions. Mr Hills, Minister
for Local Government, was petitioned.
There were protest meetings, letters in
the press. That upsurge of interest
climaxed years of wrangling. In 1949,
protests had brought about an inquiry
by a Local Government commissioner
who recommended an alternative route
for the expressway but was overruled by
engineers. In 1955, the National Trust
acquired a long lease of St Malo’s and
sublet it to a catering firm which, after
appropriate decoration, opened it to the
public at certain times. The matter lapsed
until 1959, when the Government called
for tenders for the bridge and found
itself attacked for its philistine disregard
for the past
Cars crossing the Fig Tree Bridge were
held up by the queues of people signing
“Save St Malo” petitions; enthusiasts
talked of shooting at the bulldozers;
cynics talked of shrewd local politicians
playing to the historically minded electors
of Hunters Hill. Was the building worth
the battle?
Built by Didier Numa Joubert in 1847,
it is pleasant enough, but its appearance
is somewhat spoilt by the transfer of
the Burdekin House pillars to the
verandah. There are many other build-
ings of greater interest, but as St Malo
was the first property the National Trust
acquired it became a test case.
There is a long-standing scheme to
shift it 60 yards downhill from its present
site, but it is unlikely that sufficient
money for this project will be raised
before the royal road of progress flattens
it. The lesson of the Battle of St Malo
seems to be that bureaucrats should
consider artistic, historical and social
questions as well as purely technical
matters when they are designing the
future and that the National Trust
should take an interest in historic build-
ings long before they are condemned.
If that happened, Sydney might become
as pious as Melbourne, where even
Whelan the Wrecker recently stated that
old buildings should not be pulled down.
POLITICAL POINTS
A s expected, N.S.W.’s referendum to
abolish the Upper House resulted
in an overwhelming defeat for the
abolitionists. The remaining 150,000
or so votes yet to be counted cannot
affect the issue. Monday’s final voting
figures were: 732,908 for “Yes” and
979,452 for “No” —a six-to-four vote
against the Government’s proposals.
Although the Labor party’s Left-
wing was most energetic during the
campaign, it was probably only the
belligerence of a leading Right-wingei,
Mr Tom Dougherty of the A.W.U.,
which placed the Government in its
present silly position. It was a senti-
mental hangover from its more
vigorous days which made the Left-
wing pursue, to its inevitable end, the
“abolition of the House of privilege.”
As a result of the headstrong mem-
bers wheeling the platitudinous barrow
of abolition the Heffron Government
not oniy faces a hostile Upper House
mine of its members rebelled over the
issue), but it lost so much face over
the question that it may have seriously
endangered its chances of survival in
next year’s State election. If it has
any sense it will hold another referen-
dum on the question of whether the
Upper House should be elected by
adult franchise instead of by the
present method —a joint meeting of
Doth Houses. Or perhaps, as the Com-
munist speaker said in Sydney s
Domain on Sunday, “With the ex-
perience of fighting this Socialist cam-
paign against the upper classes and the
capitalist press, the forces of the Left
are more united now than they have
ever been. And we can go forward
in unity to fight for a Socialist Aus-
tralia.”
• •
As forecast in The Bulletin, the
D.L.P. second preferences in the
Victorian State election will go to the
Liberals. The D.L.P. for months has
been coyly claiming these have not
been decided, but in its official news-
paper column the party makes it clear
what is on.
The column says every preference
for the A.L.P. is one of approval for
A.L.P.-Red co-operation, a vote for
continuance of Labor division, and
keeping the Liberals indefinitely in
power ; and in deciding preferences
between the Liberal and Country
parties, the D.L.P. will scrutinise their
principles, policies, personalities and
political allies. The last two are the
operative words ; Country party and
A.L.P. have been, and may be again,
political allies.
T atest on Queensland’s Collinsville
A - y front is an ominous silence. The
Government has called tenders for the
sale of the State-owned mine (60 miles
from Bowen), with or without the
Bowen coke works, also State-owned.
Miners are planning a protest road
convoy from the mine to Brisbane ...
but some organisational hitches are
developing. Or could it be that the
Queensland credit squeeze with its
resulting unemployment and general
‘Tack of liquidity” is making direct
action, much less a general industrial
dispute, far from popular with rank-
and-file unionists? Both sides are
committed apparently irrevocably . ..
a fortnight or so should indicate which
one is to be the irresistible force and
which the immovable object.
• •
Tt is hard to work out the daily-
A press attitude to student demon-
strations especially in Melbourne.
Students are now complaining bitterly
that when minority student groups
hold demonstrations—such as the
Communist - sponsored student pro-
tests supporting Castro, and similar
ones—the daily papers inflate their
significance and portray students as
“irresponsible ratbags.”
The most successful demonstration
for decades was held recently after
a non-political meeting of 900 students
and staff had protested against Mr
Menzies’s statements and actions over
South Africa. Four hundred people,
including 30 staff members, marched
from the University along Mel-
bourne’s footpaths and nature strips,
and by prearrangement with the
police, Students’ Representative Coun-
cil and civic authorities held an
orderly protest meeting in the park
adjoining the Victorian Houses of
Parliament. The Melbourne “Age”
even said that police had to block the
students from the steps of Parliament
House.
So annoyed was that very respect-
able and conservative body, the
S.R.C., with this paper, that its
secretary wrote a letter correcting the
misleading report and complained
that the press “were quite unfair in
their refusal to report the march.”
By MUGGA


OVERSEAS
The Overseas Chinese
By ALICE TAY ERH SOON
Back in 1956, South Vietnam ordered
500,000 local-bom Chinese males to
change their names to Vietnamese names,
to pay taxes and register for military
service as citizens of Vietnam. Ail other
Chinese males, including those born in
North Vietnam and Cambodia, auto-
matically became foreigners. They were
barred from 11 trades and lines of busi-
ness —precisely those in which most of
them were earning a living.
The Chinese, forming some ten per
cent, of the population, waited patiently
for sympathy or support, mainly from
Nationalist China. They waited in vain.
A year later, they rioted in Saigon. Bitter
but powerless, the Nationalist Chinese
Foreign Minister, Mr George Yeh, told
a press conference in Taipeh: “We
Chinese are being looked on as the Jews
of Asia.”
South Vietnam was not alone and the
same pattern appeared elsewhere,
Thailand, with a population of 3 million
Chinese —about 20 per cent, of the total
—had been exerting pressure against the
Chinese since 1910. In 1939, Chinese
education was virtually forbidden. By
the end of 1940 there were only two
Chinese schools in the entire country,
teaching Chinese two hours a week,
compared with 400 schools in 1934. In
1942 27 different occupations, trades and
professions previously dominated by
Chinese were reserved for Thai nationals.
In 1943 Chinese nationals were pro-
hibited from buying land ; Thai patriots
were called upon to eat no food and wear
no clothes produced by the foreigner
in their midst ; civil servants and others
were advised to serve their people by
not marrying aliens. Ten provinces and
four smaller urban areas were declared
'out of bounds” to aliens. All Chinese
nationals were expelled at short notice.
In 1953 the Nationality Law was
amended to provide that children born
of Chinese mothers should no longer be
Thai citizens.
In Indonesia, where the three million
Chinese formed some 2.5 per cent, of
•he population, there had been a mas-
sacre of Chinese as long ago as 1740,
under Dutch rule. With Indonesian inde-
pendence and growing poverty under
nationalist rule, a new anti-Chinese cam-
paign gained even greater virulence. In
•959 a presidential decree finally pro-
hibited alien retailers from trading out-
s>de the main towns, thus expropriating
300,000 Chinese village shopkeepers. In
w est Java thousands were transported
•° the nearest towns in camps. Violence
•fared up in several areas. Chinese who
now “wished” to leave Indonesia were
encouraged to do so ; they were forbid-
den to take property or cash. Forty
•housand left for Communist China in
Communist Chinese ships ; the propor-
... . . .
tion indicates rather well the gnmness
of the alternatives facing the expropriated
Chinese.
in the Philippines, where some 350,000
Chinese form less than two per cent, of
the population but control Chinese in-
vestments of over 100 million dollars,
economic nationalism has also turned
against the Chinese. In 1954, a highly
controversial law was passed to put all
retail businesses ultimately in the hands
of the Filipinos. Chinese at that time
controlled more than half the retail trade.
The law was challenged but held to be
constitutional. The Chinese fear that its
provisions, admittedly gradual, will finally
be extended to cover wholesale, import
and export business as well.
In the Federation of Malaya, where
2,400,000 Chinese form some 43 per cent.
of the population, the situation is more
involved and less frankly discriminatory.
The present Alliance Government is a
coalition of Malay, Chinese and Indian
groups. But here, too, the Chinese have
to stave off the threat of a more militant
Malay nationalism by peaceably accept-
ing something very close to second-class
citizenship. Constitutionally, certain
areas of land are scheduled for Malays
only ; discriminatory quotas protect
Malays in the public service and scholar-
ships favor them in the University
Government - supported industries are
having to employ higher and higher
quotas of Malays.
The Chinese see themselves suffering
the Jewish fate ; their enemies see them
as deserving it. Racialism in one country
strengthens racialism in another: the
Asian “sons of the soil,” romanticised
by the British coloniser, have not been
slow to acquire and adapt the anti-
Semitism of the European. It was in
Europe at the turn of the century that
the young men of the Thai elite first
met the official doctrines of anti-
Semitism and of the Yellow Peril ; the
Englishman Warington Smyth, Director
of the (Thai) Royal Department of Mines
at the turn of the century, gravely in-
formed the world that the virtues of the
Chinese are “shared perhaps equally by
the buffalo” and that the Chinese were
the jews of Siam. He claimed that they
“hold the Siamese in the palm of their
hand" and “could sack half Bangkok in
a day.” The Thais were not slow to learn.
By 1914, the Thai King Wachirawut had
laid the foundations for the racialist
aspects of Thai nationalism with a tract
entitled “The Jews of the East,” which
equated the Chinese with an anti-
Semite’s caricature of the Jews.
Unhappily, the parallels between the
position of the 14 million Chinese in
South-East Asia and the Jews of Angevin
England, medieval Spain and modern
Eastern Europe are not a mere figment
of the racialist's imagination or venom.
The parallels are real. The Chinese
entered the countries of the Nanyang
or the Southern Ocean as the enterprising
but alien commercial leaven in patently
The Manchester ‘'Guardian.”


backward, agricultural and semi-feudal
societies. Though there had been some
Chinese commercial activity in the
Nanyang for many centuries, it was
largely frowned on by Chinese dynastic
rulers. It was also fraught with danger
to Chinese life and property from the
enmity of local populations, the tyranny
of petty rulers and the general lawless-
ness ol the area. Only with the arrival
of the European in the 18th century
were political conditions established
which gave the Chinese sufficient protec-
tion to make trade in South-East Asia
attractive to large numbers. At the same
tirne, the opening up of these societies
to commercial and mining activities
attracted ever-increasing numbers of
young men with little to sell but their
industry and their strength.
Racially and culturally distinct, the
Chinese were aliens dependent on the
protection of local or colonial rulers.
Chinese enterprise, industry and zeal,
aided by local underdevelopment, quickly
made the Chinese a conspicuous eco-
nomic power in the countries they pene-
trated. Even now, the Chinese form less
than nine per cent, of the total popula-
tion in South-East Asia. Yet, before the
Second World War, they controlled some
75 per cent, of the rice-milling in the
Philippines, 80 per cent, in Indo-China,
and almost 90 per cent, in Thailand.
In countries such as Indonesia, Cambodia
and South Vietnam political inde-
pendence has coincided with growing
poverty, instead of growing prosperity,
for the native populations. To seize
Chinese wealth has seemed as easy a
solution to the Indonesians as seizing
the Jews' wealth seemed to the medieval
baron and the Ukrainian pogromshchik.
The fact that Chinese wealth has been
won largely by dint of hard Chinese
work is glossed over ; so is the existence
of millions of poor Chinese laborers,
peasants and itinerant hawkers.
Nevertheless, the economic advantage
of the Chinese in South-East Asia, how-
ever won, is as doomed as the economic
position of the Jew was in Eastern
Europe. He will be increasingly harassed,
discriminated against or expelled until
the overt signs of Chinese prosperity
are no longer there to offend the majority
that holds political control. It is not
merely that the Chinese must become
a citizen, as Napoleon required the Jews
of France to become citizens. In most
areas, the Chinese will either have to
cease being recognisably Chinese or
cease being a significant economic com-
petitor to the local population.
The problem is aggravated, of course,
by the fact that the Chinese, unlike the
Jew before 1948, has a homeland. Before
1910, the Chinese connection with the
homeland was cultural and sentimental,
but not political. Early Chinese immi-
grants to South-East Asia left China
illegally and were considered as criminals
back home. Later Chinese religiously
sent their remittances home and hoped
either to die in China or have their
remains shipped there. They did not
see themselves as Chinese citizens in a
political sense.
With the fall of the Manchu dynasty
and the rise of the Kuomintang the
situation changed radically. A remark-
able network of Chinese schools, based
entirely on voluntary support, sprang up
throughout South-East Asia. Their
annual graduates, in each country, ran
into thousands. The children were taught
in Chinese, by mainland Chinese, about
mainland China. The new nationalist
revolution had captured the Chinese
imagination everywhere and had lent the
Chinese a new basis for dignity and self-
assertion. The five-year-old Chinese
began his first lessons with the recita-
tion: “Wor sher Ch’ung Kuo ren ; wor
ch’oo tsai Nanyang; wor ai Ch’ung
Kuo” —“I am a Chinese ; I live in South-
East Asia ; I love China.”
The growing consciousness of being
Chinese need not have led to a conflict
of South-East Asian nationalisms. In
the days of the Kuomintang the overseas
Chinese became increasingly interested
in Chinese politics ; he did not become
a political agent of China overseas. His
life in South-East Asia was one thing ;
his political attachment to China another.
The only conflict between them was a
cultural conflict in his own soul. It had
no political or economic significance for
his neighbors.
The emergence of Red China as a
world Power placed the Chinese under
totally new stresses. The concept of being
a Chinese gained world historical over-
tones: Red China sought to demand far
more than purely cultural or sentimental
loyalty. Even so, it is doubtful if it
would have succeeded in gaining more
if its emergence had not coincided with
a serious threat to the social and eco-
nomic position of the Chinese in South-
East Asia.
The defeat of the Communist revolt
in Malaya was a turning-point for the
history of the Chinese in South - East
Asia. It has shown them clearly that
Communism could not be a path to first-
class citizenship in the countries of their
adoption. To proclaim oneself a Com-
munist was to invite suppression or ex-
pulsion. It was to court disaster for the
entire Chinese community
Today, virtually every Chinese m
South-East Asia has finally grasped the
grim alternatives that confront him. He
can stay —if he is allowed—in the coun-
tries in which he lives. He must learn the
tongue of the country, seek its citizenship
as a prize, and try to assimilate as quickly
and thoroughly as he can.
The alternative is to immigrate—provi-
sionally, perhaps, to the insecurities of
Hong Kong; more permanently, only
to Communist China. Between 1950 and
1954 thousands of idealistic young
Chinese went to China, leaving behind
their families and their prospects for
prosperity. They went to study to be-
come part of the uplift of the New China.
Instead most of them were sent to the
fields. Today, very few Chinese have
any desire to go to Communist China.
In South-East Asia they may lose their
property and become laborers ; in China
they will.
“The overseas Chinese,” Robert S.
Elegant wrote in “The Dragon’s Seeds”
in 1959, “are trapped between native
Governments which would destroy them
if they could, and aggressive, messianic
Communism which uses them to destroy
themselves.” But by then, Chinese Com-
munism had already done its damage.
Now, the South-East Asian Chinese is
left to his own devices ; the spectre of
Communism has even robbed him of
that world sympathy which he might
otherwise have shared with the Jew. His
future depends on his ability to accom-
modate himself to rulers and nations
whose ideal society contains no Chinese.
African Diary
By CLIVE BARRY
“T would not drive on just now if I
were you,” said the police inspector.
“Not with a lady in your car.”
“Eh?” 1 asked.
“Are there bodies?” asked the lady in
my car.
“The ambulance is on its way,” said
the police inspector.
After the ambulance had passed on
its way I drove on and found that even
without bodies the scene was impressive.
An old truck and a new stationwagon
had collided and for 200 yards wreckage
was strewn about as on a battlefield.
One piece of wreckage was a slab of
windscreen with a neat lipstick imprint
on it. Out of respect for that impressive
scene 1 held my own car down to a
solemn 70 for the next 300 miles. After
a while a large sedan jampacked with
Arabs overtook and passed my car on
the wrong side which was windward of
my dust.
Two years ago on the 300 miles from
Nairobi to Mombasa a hurtling sedan
collided with a hurtling rhino and killed
it outright. The reclining rhino did not
seem to be badly marked but the reclin-
ing sedan was a caution. Always the
fast driver, and especially the night
driver, has to be ready to dodge sudden
hazards which ranged in size from
guinea - fowls, barn - owls, foxes and
antenna-tailed wart-hogs to tan-colored
topis, gnus and giraffes.
In the recent safari reliability-trial
around 3300 miles of East Africa’s roads
one of the competing cars hit a zebra and
retired within 20 minutes of leaving the
starting ramp in Nairobi’s Coronation
Avenue. The driver suffered superficial
face injuries and the zebra had some
painful stripes. Among the 77 starters
there was one Holden entry. It was
driven by Sembi and Patti, a couple of
Sikhs who had never done competition
driving before, and it came in 14th in the
overall field.
'T'he independence - bound protectorate
A of Tanganyika is not finding freedom
full of ease. The chief minister Julius
Nyerere has explained patiently to the
members of widely scattered and widely
different tribes that hard work is the
only way to a decent standard of living.


gut unfortunately coinciding with his
incitement was Tanganyika’s decision to
refuse hard work to about 13,000 people
who lived in the south-west district of
Rungwe close to the border of Nyasa-
land.
Along with Nigeria and in order to
express disapproval of South Africa,
Tanganyika has terminated an agreement
with the powerful Witwatersrand Native
Labor Association which took Africans
for employment to the South African
gold mines. This means that Tanganyika
will lose at least half a million pounds
sterling each year.
In the old days Africans from the
Rungwe district in Tanganyika had
Tou in West Berlin Tarantel Press.
annually slipped across the border to
enlist for the gold mines in Fort Hill
in Nyasaland. But for the past 18 months
the Witwatersrand Association has been
allowed to recruit labor in Tukuyu in
Tanganyika.
The 15,000 people of Tanganyika now
being employed in South Africa’s mines
have been receiving much more in the
shape of wages and conditions than they
can hope for in Tanganyika. The most
that the majority can hope for now
is 20s. a month working on the Iringa
tea plantations. But perhaps the men
from Rungwe district will renew the old
tradition of slipping across the border.
It was all very well for national leaders
to say: “Better freedom with poverty
than bondage with prosperity.” But many
of those leaders have a lucrative vested
interest in nationalism: an interest that
pays their way around the world on
lecture tours and goodwill junkets.
Among the movement of people slip-
ping away across the border of Tangan-
yika into Rhodesia and later the Union
of South Africa are many of the Afri-
kaner people who settled in East Africa
60 years ago. They arrived in voortrek-
ker wagons as diehards who would not
accept the surrender of the Boer War
and now they are returning south in
rugged bush vehicles assuring each other
that the war with Britain has at last
been won. Of course it is not only
South Africa’s secession from the Com-
monwealth of Nations that decided them
to move, but also the murky visibility
that seems to hang around the future of
East Africa these days.
Pointers
THE AMERICAS
CANADA
Within a few days the forestry school
of Sopron, in north-west Hungary, will
graduate its last class but the ceremony
will take place in Vancouver. Many of
the Sopron students took part in the
Hungarian revolution and fled across
the Austrian border, together with the
entire teaching staff. The then Canadian
Minister for Immigration heard of this,
telephoned home from Austria and
within 24 hours it had been decided to
transfer the Sopron school to the Univer-
sity of British Colombia. Early in 1957
the whole school 196 students, 29
faculty members and 21 members of the
teaching staff, wives and 50 children
sailed for Canada. Since then the school
has graduated 85 per cent, of its students
and of those who have dropped out only
eight returned to Hungary.
AFRICA
ANGOLA
Two of the many groups suffering from
the disturbances have tried to protect
themselves: the students, who say they
have to patrol with the militia or stand
guard all night, have asked for suspen-
sion of examinations, and the Bailundos,
a tribe which has remained faithful to
the Europeans, have begun to wear white
handkerchiefs round their heads to dis-
tinguish themselves from the rebels.
SOUTH AFRICA
Natal is watching with interest a system
of non - white representation in Est-
court which has 7500 non-whites in a
population of about 74,000. A “shadow
council” of Asians elected by Asian rate-
payers shares in the control of the town's
civic affairs with elected white council-
lors. Recently Natal demanded a multi-
racial convention dealing with the fran-
chise at all levels for non-whites. The
public attitude to these moves is very
different to the attitude to non-white
representation in 1947 when Asian repre-
sentation was overwhelmingly rejected by
a plebiscite taken in Durban.
EUROPE
WEST GERMANY
A recent noteworthy escape from East
Germany was that of a shepherd with
his flock of 400 sheep. His land had
been “collectivised” but he refused to
hand over his animals and succeeded in
eluding the people’s police on the zonal
boundary. After the Easter rush of
refugees the flow to West Germany has
fallen to a steady 5000 a week; the
most worrying aspect of this for the
East German authorities is the number
of young people who leave. The propor-
tion of people under 24 escaping is as
high as 18 per cent.
ITALY
A number of extremely mobile cows did
not succeed in hoodwinking Signor
Fanfani, the Prime Minister, during his
fact-finding tour of Calabria. The
director-general of the official land re-
form agency of the region was replaced
lor moving cows a little faster than the
Prime Minister so that it appeared the
agency’s centres were well-stocked. This
gambit, similar, although more difficult
than the Air Force’s way of deluding
Mussolini about the number of planes
at his disposal, has led to denunciations
by the left of the Government's efforts
at reform in Southern Italy. Even more
worrying than the übiquitous cows is
the unofficial estimate that 40,000, out
of a total population of 700,000, have
lelt Catanzaro for the booming north
in the first three months of the year.
From his addresses it seems that Signor
Fanlani is about to organise a new and
organic attack on the perennial problem
of the South.
MIDDLE EAST
TURKEY
The famous and popular Turkish poet
Nazim Hikmet, who fled to Russia some
years ago and who is said to be the
leader of the Turkish Communist Party
outside Turkey, is believed to run “Our
Radio” which has recently stepped up its
anti-Government, Communist broadcasts
to Turkey. The broadcasts claim that
General Gursel, the Head of State, has
“betrayed the May revolution” and it
also advocates Kurdish nationalism. The
broadcasts are believed to come from
East Germany or Poland and have a
sufficiently large following for Ankara
radio to issue periodical replies to the
propaganda.
ASIA
CEYLON
mobilisation has been ordered
and 14 emergency regulations, in-
cluding the death penalty for looting and
sabotage, have been brought into force
throughout the island. Mrs Bandaranaike,
the Prime Minister, has appealed to all
Ceylonese to “lay aside political and
religious differences.” She went on to
say that “this is the hour for everyone
to unite against the enemies of the nation
and the people.” However, the majority
of these “enemies of the nation” are
people—Tamils—who are suffering dis-
crimination because they are of different
race, language and religion from the
ruling Sinhalese.


FOR THE CONSUMER
Getting a Better Run
for Their Money
A ustralian hosiery manufacturers are
determined to get a better run for
their money. This autumn, they tell us,
you will not be in the fashion picture
unless your stockings are shades deeper
than they were last year. “And, after
all,” said a promotion officer for nylon,
“light-colored stockings weren’t much
good for the trade. Women went on
wearing them for weeks with ladders
because the ladders didn’t show.”
This frankness is engaging, but it is
doubtful if any woman who decides to
carry on with her light-colored stockings
and her ladders will be able to. Once
something new comes on the market the
older style has a tricky habit of disap-
pearing from sales counters altogether.
The manufacturers say they produced
the deeper-toned nylons to follow over-
seas fashion trends. They say that Aus-
tralian women, recently abroad, com-
plained that they felt old-fashioned and
“anaemic” in their light-colored stockings.
The deeper tones, it is claimed, are more
flattering. The new colors are browns,
greys and something with either a green
or a mauve sheen. These have a
chameleon trick of toning in with almost
any colored dress.
Stocking makers in Australia get their
styles and ideas from America, by-passing
Paris as a fashion centre. Compared
with most other makers of fashion goods,
the stocking manufacturer has an easy
time gathering up his ideas.
He simply has to buy a few pairs at
any retail shop in America and bring
them home in his baggage or get a friend
to do it for him. There is nothing like
the elaborate procedure of dress
manufacturers and milliners, who have
to buy models in Paris to reproduce, or
even of shoemakers, who have to pay
high prices for the right to copy styles
under licence here.
The stocking manufacturer doesn't
have to plan very far ahead, either. The
deeper-toned stockings which are now in
just about every shop in the Common-
wealth were dyed only a month or six
weeks ago. The factories keep stocks
of undyed stockings, called “greys,” until
they decide what colors will be in demand
in the coming season.
Of course, not much is involved for a
woman who wants to follow stocking
fashions. Not many women have a
drawerful. You have to buy stockings,
anyhow, and most of us feel you have
to buy them with depressing regularity.
You can try Tia Maria, Prunus or Saucy
Sage and when they ladder you can try
something else.
Incidentally, the industry’s sanguine
belief that Australian women obligingly
follow American fashion has had one or
two knocks. One followed the introduc-
tion of colored stockings a few years ago.
These sold well in the United States,
and the trade introduced them with con-
fidence here. They were almost a total
failure. “And we merchandised them
strongly,” says a man in the trade, still
shocked and unbelieving.
While the trade is trying to insinuate
that darker stockings are just the thing
to make last year’s suit look like new,
they are also trying to put across the idea
that you should wear seamed stockings
for winter and seamless for summer. At
the moment seamless stockings are about
40 per cent, of the market, although some
shops, notably those which cater for
younger women, may sell 60 per cent,
seamless.
Sales of stockings with seams rise
sharply before Mother's Day and Christ-
man when, presumably, men would be
doing their duty buying. Perhaps most
of them are taken back to the shops and
changed afterwards.
The trade in general takes it that
complaints about nylons not lasting a
reasonable time are “seasonal.” “You
get a spate of letters to the papers, and
then it all dies down again,” an executive
said. However, leaders of the trade say
that women must realise that 15-denier
stockings are not meant to withstand
heavy wear and cannot be made to do
so. For those whose memories are long
enough, a stocking manufacturer recalled
that pre-war fine silk stockings used to
carry a tag, “These will last as long as
the smile on your lips and the song in
your heart.”
Although most of us will be reconciled
to trying the new dark stockings, simply
because we will be buying stockings
sometime anyway, fewer will feel so
happy about being forced to buy com-
plete new sets of accessories each season.
That is what the leathergoods makers are
very definitely trying to make us do.
Each season there is a new color for
shoes and handbags, which approximately
matches the new fabric colors. Fair
enough, and quite a steo forward in
merchandising, too. But. at the same
time, every vestige of last season’s
fashionable color disappears.
This year it’s Tia Maria ( ‘lt's that
expensive Spanish sherry,” a salesgirl
explained, while we thought it was that
rather revolting coffee-flavored liqueur).
Tia Maria is a bronzed brown. Next
season's color, we’ve already been
warned, is a brown-black called Testa di
Moro. Each color is carefully selected
from a different family of colors from
the previous year’s. If you have worn
out a pair of Tia Maria shoes next year
you will find you can buy only Testa di
Moro, which neither matches nor con-
trasts with your Tia Maria handbag and
gloves.
Simple things like grey, pigskin tan,
even navy-blue, disappear altogether.
“Oh, no, madam, no one is wearing tan
now.” Also, salesgirls in general are
capable of identifying color only by it?
current name. Bone is bone. Try to call
it beige or off white or any of its previous
manifestations, the salesgirl will smile
pityingly and say “Sorry, madam, we
have no beige, but we do have bone”
Bear with her, she'll bring you beige,
which she 11 sell to you as b. nt Both
of you are happy, so wha odd ?
FOR THE OBSERVER
Good Men Who Won't Come to the
Aid of the Party
Tf Sydney stockbroker Mr Dick Allen
carries out his threat to collect £lOO
each from 100 husbands or boy-friends
of members of the Black and White
Committee, in return for chickening out
on the string of parties which the com-
mittee runs annually, it will be an easy
£lO,OOO for the Royal Blind Institution,
but it will also cause a drastic sag in
Sydney’s social life.
In Sydney the Black and White Com-
mittee is the committee and the Black
and White Ball is the ball. There is little
doubt that the long-suffering husbands
of the Black and White Committee mem-
bers could put their hand: on £lOO An
air of well-bred poverty, frayed bui good
linen and ancient but Savile Row dress
clothes are not the hallmark of Sydney
society.
One-hundred pounds would be letting
everyone off very lightly Think of all
the evening dresses that would not have
to be bought! Think of the dinnet
parties, which normally are arranged so
that people can be sufficiently relaxed to
face the ennui of the big, formal ball
which would not take place! Think of
the saving in champagne, on tombolas
and donations! If Mr Allen can find


bargains like that on the stockmarket
for his clients he must be the most
popular broker in town.
In Sydney competition to serve on
social committees is keen. Sometimes
it seems a near thing whether there are
enough poor, sick, crippled or blind to
equate with the number of well-heeled,
well-dressed matrons who are anxious for
the social acclaim and, no doubt, the
feeling of inner satisfaction which comes
from helping those less fortunate than
themselves.
The presidency of a big committee
sets the seal. In most cases the committee,
formed after a charming little luncheon
at which the hostess is invariably elected
president, approaches the charity with
an offer of help.
Although many deserving charities do
not, strictly speaking, get all the help
from the public they need, they do get
many offers. Sometimes they grow wary
of offers from unseasoned charity-
workers. A couple of years ago a well-
known organisation, in an effort to re-
coup its losses after a new young group
had held its first function, a wine-tasting,
had to confiscate what was left of the
claret.
The Black and White Committee,
established prewar as the White Com-
mittee, is Sydney’s most exclusive com-
mittee, but it is only as exclusive as any
large organisation can be. There are
now nearly 150 members. Once your
husband has collected the requisite num-
ber of company directorships, and if you
are at all inclined towards the social
scrum, there is little doubt that you will
finally get the nod from the B. and W.
You could run a finger down the Stock
Exchange listings and check them against
the names of the B. and W. Committee,
but possibly the committee is weighted
most heavily with stockbrokers and wool-
buyers, which accounts for the con-
fidence with which Mr Allen can invoke
the old pals’ act. Almost all fields are
represented, and the committee is not
above a working woman or two. Actress
Doris Fitton and radio producer Grace
Gibson have both made the B. and W.
Because it is such a large committee,
a certain amount of discipline has be-
come essential. Members must make a
reasonable effort to attend meetings, and
most of them do work very hard. The
meetings are conducted with something
of the efficiency and smoothness with
which a chairman of directors would
face a post-credit-squeeze meeting of
shareholders.
The discipline and diverseness have
come to the Black and White largely
through its president, Mrs Marcel Deky-
vere, who last week resigned from the
chore. Mrs Dekyvere’s method of
handling a meeting would be a model
for any businessman dealing with a
difficult staff.
Mrs Dekyvere, whose husband is a
woolbuyer, is a lively woman and a
veteran of committee work. She is fond
of fun, perhaps a good deal more so
than the rather stolid “young matrons”
on the committee. She is an uninhibited
performer at the Black and White Com-
mittee’s annual revue.
Mrs Dekyvere's large band of loyal
friends would undoubtedly give her the
title of Sydney’s social leader. The first
thing which cadets in the women's sec-
tions of Sydney newspapers have to learn
is to spell Dekyvere. However, Nola
Dekyvere is, as the phrase goes, not
without her serious side. She has the
Bible and Dr Norman Vincent Peale’s
“The Power of Positive Thinking” at
her bedside, and during the Billy Graham
Crusade she organised a tea party at
which one of Graham's team spoke.
It is sometimes suggested that Mrs
Dekyvere prefers her committee members
not to belong to other committees. T his
is, of course, a discipline she cannot
impose on everyone.
There are perhaps only two other
committees which carry the same cachet
as the Black and White. They are the
Peter Pan and the Pied Piper. The Peter
Pan achieved a sort of distinction by,
on succeeding years, snubbing Sabrina
and Maurice Chevalier, who were the
guests of honor at the committee’s annual
ball—with varying degrees of success.
If this did not provide a conspicuously
good lesson in manners, it did show that
members of Sydney committees are sure
they are every bit as good as visiting
entertainers. The Pied Piper gains dis-
tinction by holding only about one meet-
ing a year and running its affairs with
a minimum of fuss and publicity, because
that is how the members want it.
Although Mr Allen has said he is
perfectly serious about his offer, not
many hopes—or fears —are entertained
that he will bring it off. It may seem
tedious to go to endless parties, meeting
the same people, but what is the alter-
native? Sitting at home with a good
book? Watching TV? Talking to each
other?
Feiffer.
MM Duct IK) A
me wm iv
6ti a time
IMF tq IP 60
iioro th£
NO6HBOI ZHOOQ
you
MP6R6IAUO
JuSr FOR A
COUPU OF 1
tall awes.
TH6M OWE mUI
I UP A
CGJV&ZkTIOK) -
$OM£ 6IM
Sirfiioo ti&T
To HE H£
RW$ Me I
JS(W him AMP
AU AEOW6 we
WCHAU66
OW UF£'
A[OC7 A 4 U)E PRIWK
HE Tf?l66EK> OFf
JM ME I
UEI/E£ KHEWI
HAP AM? 1
I CAM SEE I'M
rmetmb
6ff \V6te /u
' HIM HE IOEVE6
KNEW H B HAP-
AMP THE M ORt bX
ORWc TH£ HORe
CISAR A UOf
Uf( 666M6 To
66, Tu M Tint
Shoe' WAUH sPlit
Ml T H6 JDW
x UO6C6 \T6 A$
li IF Ml OF Life
FOR M FIRST
Ti H6 HW6
TofcWt!
THf M6XT VM I 6*cm
fix met ‘i Sor
M 4 mvhcwt,
l 0O W U'T
mtnm a
mm
FOR A COOPL6 OF 1
m new oemootv
6o i ueur 10 rue
LOCAL EAR you
Wiflgf&fAMP. 10 ocw
A COUPLE OF IAU
SOME 6UM IS 6H11N6
MfcXT 10 ME Adi 7 WE
Sim Op A COM#6-
ATio/0- diw Me.
1 m him.
AMP A 6 m TA LK
ANP PP!a)M PRIME?
l AU 5 0£16 OF (P
\wm i mm v
j iooew i min '
HE AR6 Wiov-
IM6 Ik) MM W
A/OP I CM %C
in TH6 6AM ,
m flOlffl HIM /
W Tfif ue
tiooze M Msf?f
r set a wH&e
/ C£WN£CT!NS
/ PATTERN Of M lj f
in wmm
gtf Ttfg TlHg Wt
acsci? th£ ijsk)T
rr was t«€ seweM 1 *
we w fmr wt
m mu uwii
w nexr vw !
coclomt
'\ ffcH£Hs6R A
| word erne
I Of L*b 9/0.
I COULV GUM
&memez
OM THIM.
if bOf\b rue
SAMt OU^f.
If U)M
m 6AM6
CMV£&A:i/%)


HBORIGINNUTIES
Mulparinga’s Crime
''Trials involving crimes by Northern
A Territory aborigines frequently cause
much discussion and speculation. In one
of the most discussed cases the accused
was an aboriginal called Mulparinga, a
member of the nomadic Pitjinjarra tribe,
which inhabits the country between
Areyonga, some 100 miles west of Alice
Springs, and Ernabella in South Aus-
tralia. In 1953 an Alice Springs jury
found Mulparinga guilty of murdering
another young aboriginal named Selly,
who had revealed tribal secrets to the
women of the tribe.
The story which unfolded from
evidence given by several aborigines was
that an old man of the tribe named
Captain had, on two separate occasions,
seen Selly showing sacred blood on his
body to some women. The blood came
from a Kangaroo Corroboree, an initia-
tion ceremony, of which Captain said:
“It was my own corroboree from the
Petermann Ranges that we bin do at
Areyonga when that blood was made on
Selly’s leg. I am boss of that corroboree,
and because Selly show that blood to
those girls I was frightened of that
Dreaming Spirit might kill me.”
Captain saw Selly’s second act as he
was returning one afternoon from a swim
at the waterhole. He immediately con-
sulted with Tiger, another old man of
the tribe. According to Captain’s
evidence, Tiger said to him: “Selly have
to die.” Captain agreed and said:
“Poor kid. I proper sorry for that Selly.”
The two old men then went to the
camp of the single men and commanded
that one of them should kill Selly. The
command was given by administering to
all of them in a group a certain sign—
the tapping of two or three fingers of
one hand on the palm of the other.
According to the evidence, the name of
the sign was that of the male sexual
organ. All the young men except the
prisoner returned the sign, thereby indi-
cating refusal.
Selly knew that Captain had witnessed
his second breach, and he was evidently
afraid of some severe form of punish-
ment : he began to take care to stay
close to the settlement, where there were
a number of white people.
However, he apparently did not think
that punishment would come at the
hands of the young men of the tribe, for
he went with them one day to a spot
some distance from the settlement, where
they held a “little bit corroboree” or
“singing corroboree.”
The natives formed two circles. Mul-
paringa sat in the outside circle, and at
some stage during the corroboree he hit
Selly on the back of the head with a
“singing stick.” He then twisted Selly’s
head until death resulted.
Qome of the young men present at the
corroboree got frightened when they
saw Selly killed, and they tried to run
away. But Mulparinga called them back
and gave them a sign which constituted
an oath of secrecy. Presently he allowed
all but five to leave.
The remaining five stayed with the
body until very late. It was then brought
back under cover of darkness and placed
on the verandah of another native’s hut.
The dead native’s boots were taken off
and placed beside his body, and thus
it was found next morning.
In one of his statements to the police
the old man, Captain, said: “That
Monday morning I see that dead fella
in his swag and I hear somebody cry.
I know that him bin killed, and then 1
cry too. I properly sorry for that boy.
I know he had to get killed for might
be I get killed.”
Captain probably meant that he feared
reprisals from the Great Dreaming
Spirit if he did not have Selly punished
for offending against the ancient laws
of the tribe.
The father of the dead boy, however,
was grief-stricken and did not accept
that his son deserved to die. It was
through his threats of vengeance that the
facts of Selly’s death came to the notice
of the police.
The late Mr Justice Martin Kriewaldt
sentenced Mulparinga to 18 months’
hard labor.
K. Keain
KOOKA AND CAMERA
"117 E were filming some stuff for a TV
’ ’ session on kookaburras, and to save
footage and time in pursuing them we
started putting raw meat in a spot that
seemed ideal for camera work in its
balance of bush and available light.
Within a week we had about ten of them
coming in each morning to perch at
their post positions for the daily largesse,
their antics providing some interesting
material.
After the first lot of stuff had been
edited we got a studio order for some
celluloid on the two things the bird is
most renowned for—its laughter and its
killing of snakes.
The first, we thought, would be a
simple matter. But we delivered the
routine ration of tucker every morning
and got the appreciative giggles at odd
intervals —> ntil we tried to get them on
record. It may seem incredible, but we
tried unsuccessfully for three months to
get a laugh out of them just when the
light and cameras were set. Usually the
noise is presaged by a slight but notice-
able lifting of the crest, and an elevation
of the tail. I would bellow for the
camera to switch on when these signs
were evident, directing it to the intend-
ing performer. The valuable film was
squirted through to no purpose ; we just
got a lot of footage of crests and tails
being raised and lowered like clothing
prices just before, and during, sale time.
To wait for a snake to come along
and read the script would have been
pretty useless. The cutting-room would
be satisfied if we could get a bit of close-
up work on a snake in the grass ; they
would somehow work it into the bird
sequence in the studio.
A friend of mine had a pair of snakes
he was using for research work. They


were only small —about 14in. long—rand,
though venomous, were not dangerous.
Q n my assurance that nothing could
happen to it, he consented to lend us
one for the necessary shots, when it
would be returned.
You can probably guess the rest of
the story, but a couple of small details
are worth telling.
To get very good close-ups of the
snake I was to hold it by the tail and
allow it to crawl out of a clump of
Parramatta grass; the camera would
come down until only the snake’s head
and part of its body were in frame to
fill the screen. The camera was whirring
away very contentedly about 18in. from
the small snake when a hurricane with
a beak hurtled between the lens and my
hand and snatched the snake. It
up into a high gum-tree and went
through the whole valuable sequence
while 1 flopped on my back and burnt,
in some sunlight with a large mirror to
get a million-to-one pop of movie film.
The squaring-off to my friend for the
loss of his little asp cost me a 7ft. carpet-
snake.
Alex Holmes
CROC FARMING
/"\ld hands who once made a good,
if uncomfortable, living as crocod'le-
shooters have mostly left the Gulf
Country today. The rivers between
Arnhem Land and Cape York have been
largely shot out. Yet a number of new-
comers, mostly New Australians, are still
marketing skins (currently worth 14s. an
inch), topping off their income by selling
live crocs for the tourist trade.
The more cautious visitor to North
Queensland likes to have his trophy
stuffed and lacquered, but a few
courageous souls take them home alive.
“But I tell you—somebody pinched me!”
Polish-born Ron Polovski, now living
with his wife and two children at
Karumba, on the mouth of the Norman
River, believes that live baby crocs are
supplanting budgerigars as household
pets down south supposedly through
the growing popularity of built-in gold-
fish ponds and private swimming-pools.
There is only one snag to such a vogue.
Little crocs have a habit of growing into
big crocs. What happens then?
A recent report from New York
described sewer workers being threatened
by 9ft man-eaters deep under the city.
Puzzled civic authorities eventually found
that harassed American suburbanites
were ridding themselves of their snappy
little pets by fairly obvious means.
If Mr Polovski's forecast is right, there
will shortly be openings for alert men in
the sewers of Sydney and Melbourne.
That Was the Country.
Notice in W.A. hotel bathroom: “Bath-
ers are requested not to remove plug.
Waste water required for camels, etc.” On
investigation, “etc.” proved to be washing
of cooking utensils.
— “Bulletin”, September 10, 1898.
A bead, drear, awesome place was ttoe
Australian bush at its worst, even in
olden times, but it had its relief in the*
gorgeous plumage of its feathered folk.
Now, alasl owing to the wholesale des-
truction of birds by phosphorous poison-
ing, the deadness is deader and the awe-
someness awesomenesser. I recently rode
26 miles through the bush and heard but
three “peeps” the whole time. Thank the
Lord, they can’t get their poison cart
down into the gully haunt of the lovely
pheasant, or still another sylvan asset
would go.— Bulletin”, July 23, 1908.
Dmvinc with a N.S.W. wool king, we
came on a® employee of his taking ijG
very easy over clearing out an irrigation
channel. Mac hopped out with “That’s no
way to work—see here!” and, seizing the
shovel, he set-to with a will. The man
calmly lit his pipe, put his hands in his
pockets and, after watching the perspir-
ing pastoralist for a bit, observed, “Go to
it, you bald-headed old -——! You would
not keep that up all day.” He didn’t get
the instant sack that I expected for him,
either.— “ Bulletin”, October 22, 1898.
The days of long-distance droving in
Australia are not yet past. A Queensland
cattleman has contracted to take 4000
cattle from Lissadale station, on the Ord
River (W.A.), to Betlvieyv station, near
Brisbane. The party will consist of 25
men, and the distance in a straight line is
about 1500 miles. Expected time of trip,
12 months.
— “Bulletin”, February 16, 1905.
THE MURANJI
The wild blacks called it Muranji before
the white men came
To blaze the road and stock-route west
that bears its sinister name.
A pest-plagued swampland in the wet, a
mud-hole in the dry,
Both thirst and fever, deadly foes, then
stalked the Muranji.
The settlers stocked their far-out runs
and brought their bullocks back,
With water fifty miles apart across the
dreaded track.
Through endless scrub with pack horse
plants they travelled day and night,
When fever struck no mortal man could
help them in their plight.
The Hall’s Creek diggings boomed out
west and further every week,
The rumor of the riches spread—good
gold up at the “creek.”
A few made fortunes overnight (with
gold the stakes are high).
While others found a final claim beside
the Muranji.
One was a Swede who’d travelled far, he
was of Viking blood,
He’d dug for gold in other lands in
blizzard and in flood ;
He reached the Muranji at last and
rested through the wet,
And by the twisted coolibah the Swede
is resting yet.
Two were but lads from New South
Wales who rode to meet a mob,
The “never” held no fears to them, ’twos
just another job;
They were too young to think about
what carelessness can cost,
They heard the Muranji was low, they
gambled and they lost.
It lies a silent stagnant swamp o’erhung
by brooding trees
Beside the lonely road that runs out to
the Kimberleys.
The wild dogs chorus there each night
from scrub on every side,
They are the ghosts of Muranji, where
twenty men have died.
BRUCE SIMPSON


The Red Page
The Case of
Lady Chatterley
The Trial of Lady Chatteriey. Edited
by C. H. Rolph. Penguin. ss.
A Question of Obscenity. Robert Pitman
and Kenneth Allsop. Scorpion Press.
75.. 6d.
C\ne can’t help feeling a certain pity
for the prosecutor in the “Lady
Chatteriey” trial. Judging from C. N.
Rolph’s detailed summary (which has
not yet been approved by Customs,
though a copy mysteriously arrived
at The Bulletin office) the prosecutor
obviously believed in his case but
right from the beginning knew he
had no hope of winning: it was
public knowledge that nine of the
12 on the jury were determined to find
Penguin Books Ltd not guilty. On top
of that he was faced with a parade of
witnesses that included some of the most
famous and influential writers and critics
in England, all determined to get their
own back on three generations of stupid
and bullying censorship from the Zola
case in the 1880 s to the D. H. Lawrence
case in 1915, on through the “Jix” period
in the 1920 s and 19305, up to the rash
of prosecutions in the 1950 s that pre-
ceded the new Obscenity Act. They
knew they were on the winning side and
enjoyed rubbing into this policeman the
official defence view that “Lady Chatter-
ley’s Lover” was a major novel, and that
beneath its superficial obscenity it was
an indictment of industrial civilisation
and a passionate defence of marriage.
Frequently the prosecutor could not
believe his ears and once asked if he
was speaking the same English language
as the witnesses. To him it was too
obviously an unpleasant story of an
arrogant oaf of a gamekeeper having
an affair with his employer’s wife, and
told in details no decent person wants
to see in print. But he was arguing
against a brick wall and soon gave up
the attempt. He did not cross-question
many of the witnesses and called none
of his own. He ended up a sort of
baffled last-ditcher, convinced that if this
is what the literary experts think, then
so much the worse for us all, and that
the whole episode is a large step towards
the day when Kissing will have to Stop.
The defence was a careful one. It did
not claim the novel is a great one, only
that it has definite literary merit and
deals with serious themes. As for the
obscenities, it argued these were moral,
even moralistic, in tone, certainly not
pornographic. Both points are obviously
sound.
But the defence infuriated the man
who has done more than anyone else to
establish Lawrence as one of the greatest
English writers since Shakespeare—F. R.
Leavis. In an article after the trial in
“The Spectator” he argued that the
book was positively a bad one and the
trial a literary disaster since people will
now think of Lawrence as “the author
of ‘Lady Chatterley’s Lover’ ” (instead
of “The Rainbow” or “Women in Love”)
and as the exponent of the doctrines of
“emancipation” and frankness in sexual
talk which in his great novels Lawrence
always attacked. Leavis takes Lawrence’s
essay “A Propos Lady Chatterley’s
Lover” as his attempt to square off for
having written what he knew was a bad
novel, and sometimes he even implies
that if Lawrence had been alive he would
have volunteered as a witness for the
prosecution.
Certainly there was a good deal of cant
in the witnesses’ arguments, especially
about the alleged main themes. The
“indictment of industrial civilisation”
takes up explicitly only a few paragraphs
of the book and as an implicit theme it
has little to do with the conduct of the
lovers. Industrialisation is part of the
setting of the novel, not a theme. As
for the “passionate defence of marriage”
theme, this was indeed Lawrence’s usual
view, but it has small application to
this particular book. The relations be-
tween Mellors and Connie are almost
exclusively sexual, and married people
rarely dedicate 24 hours of every day
to sexual intercourse. A marriage theme
in other words would involve a dozen
other matters not touched on in this
book. It is not about marriage at all,
but about an affair —though it would
be an interesting Book One to a longer
novel about marriage.
But this is really not the point. The
trial was a legal, not a literary, contest.
The defence had only to establish that
the book was not obscene, or that if it
was, it also had enough literary merit
to justify its publication in the public
interest. It established these points
beyond doubt, even if we disagree with
details. (Since the decision was a jury’s
we do not know whether they decided
that the book was not obscene, or that
its merit justified its obscenity.)
When the Federal Government banned
the novel against the advice of the
Censorship Board, it could have classified
it as having “in the Minister’s opinion” an
“undue emphasis on sex” a decision
against which there is no appeal to the
courts (if the Minister says it is his
opinion, that’s all there is about it); or
it could have classified it as “obscene,”
which allows an appeal to the courts. The
Government chose the latter course,
thereby inviting an appeal to the courts
The Penguin Books people say they wili
certainly take the matter to court, if
they can be sure that should they win
a case against Customs they will not
then have to fight it all over again against
the police in each State.
HThe sort of view the prosecutor wanted
A to put but was struck dumb when-
ever he tried to, is well put by Robert
Pitman in his chapter in the English
symposium pamphlet “A Question of
Obscenity.” (Pitman defends censorship,
Kenneth Allsop attacks it.)
Most of Pitman’s indignation is
directed at Nabokov and his “Lolita”
but he would presumably have directed
it even more sharply at Lawrence and
his “Lady Chatteriey,” if the case had
not been sub judice at the time. Pitman
believes we are heading for the Sleazy
Society and the pace is being set, not
by the masses who simply follow their
leaders, but by refined demagogues of
the Lilac Establishment —that is, by all
those writers, critics, churchmen and
publicists who provided the witnesses
for the defence of “Lady Chatteriey’’ and
who are quietly undermining all the old
decencies.
Pitman is literary editor of the “Sunday
Express” and his essay is one of the most
cunning defences of censorship (or
attacks on anti-censorship) 1 have come
across He knows ail the cliche argu-
ments against censorship and has ready
if sophistic rejoinders. To outwit him
the anti-censors will have to do some
thinking—which will be a pleasant change
for some of them.
If the Anti-Censor says to Pitman:
"Censorship is bad for literature,” he
says: “Really. Doesn’t literary history
from Voltaire to Pasternak suggest it
may stimulate literature? Sometimes it’s
good, sometimes it’s bad. Let’s be
empirical, not dogmatic.” When the
Anti-Censor says: “People who hate
censorship are the representatives of
culture and the lovers of truth and
beauty,” Pitman replies: “Come now.
Look at some of them. Many are morally
blunt, intellectually lazy and have shock-
ing literary taste.”
When the Anti-Censor says: “Psycho-
logical research has established that
oooks do not corrupt readers or cause
delinquency. The Jahoda Report says
. . . ” Pitman will interrupt: “Yes, of
course. Only a psychologist would con-
sider such a view worth investigating.
The sort of corruption I mean is some-
thing slower, more subtle and insidious,
a question of atmosphere to which books
are only a contributing factor, though
an important one.”
If the Anti-Censor says: “Well, why
do you pick on serious writers like
Nabokov and Lawrence when there’s all
that popular trash?” Pitman says: “Be-
cause it’s the serious writer who sets the
pace. If Nabokov gets away with a
book on perverts or Lawrence with one
on phallus worship, then every trash
merchant has an excuse to do the same.”
Then when the Anti-Censor makes his
final thrust: “Oh so you want to intensify
censorship and return to the bigotries of


the Middle Ages!” Pitman says: “Oh
no, I support the recent liberal amend-
ments to the Obscenity Act.” But he
adds, “Only, let’s make it work.”
And then he’s away. By “making it
work” he really means using it to ban
all sorts of books that would have circu-
lated freely even before the new liberal
amendments. His basic argument is that
certain hateful books are one factor
causing the Sleazy Society, so why not
ban them? It only occasionally strikes
him that the books he objects to (some
of which we might agree are corrupt)
are just one minor by-product of the
Sleazy Society, or that increased censor-
ship would intensify the Sleaziness of
Society. (All this on the assumption that
the Sleazy Society is as bad as he makes
out. Perhaps democracy is inevitably a
bit sleazy.)
But I do not think Pitman really
believes his own argument. What really
bugs him is the cant of some of the
anti-censorship arguments. That is why
his essay is one of those bad things
worth reading. It is certainly more worth
reading than Kenneth Allsop’s com-
panion chapter attacking censorship.
Allsop’s heart may be in the right place,
but all he has to contribute is the view
that censors are a lot of middle-class
nongs. Whether this is true or false,
Pitman would quickly point out: “So are
the anti-censors.”
PETER COLEMAN
Value in the Pound
Literary Essays of Ezra Pound. Edited
with an introduction by T. S. Eliot.
Faber Paperback. 12s. 6d.
The seven great essays of “Make it
New” I took on my honeymoon to
Jenolan Caves in the year the book was
first published, 1934. There was little to
do during that fortnight (since I had not
gone there to look at caves) but feed the
ducks in the blue pool and read Ezra
Pound with the object of recovering with
a Bulletin review the 18s. 6d. I had
paid for him.
In the 27 years since then, I don't think
I’ve got much farther into this huge mass
of diversified learning ; the French 1 was
going to learn to read that harsh-looking
poem of Corbiere’s which looked so full
of genius has not been learned ; I have
not made the study of Henry James to
which Pound’s exhaustive treatise seemed
to push me ; or managed a better under-
standing of the troubadour poets. But
I look with affection on the brittle prose
of Ezra’s advice to the young in “A Stray
Document,” where he prescribes: “Direct
treatment of the ‘thing' whether subjec-
tive or objective,” etc., and recall, from
a pencilled cross, the excitement of first
reading Pound’s remark about a critic
who “has lifted up his senile slobber
against Mr Eliot,” and his tilt at that
same Mr Eliot in “Date Line”:
By 1934 Frazer is sufficiently digested
for us to know that opposing systems of
European morality go back to the opposed
temperaments of those who thought
copulation was good for the crops, and
the opposed faction who thought it was
bad for the crops.
These seven essays, less the big
anthology of French poets, make the
backbone of this present 464-page selec-
tion, which Eliot says is to show Pound’s
influence on the development of poetry
in this century, and how right he was
about writers nobody had heard of until
he was first with the news. His essay
in appreciation of Eliot himself, for
instance, coincided with the first edition
°f “Prufrock” in 1917. There is an essay
on Joyce of May, 1918 ; on “Ulysses”
nf May, 1922 ; an assessment of “The
Later Yeats” in 1914; and of Robert
Frost in 1913 and 1914 ; an appreciation
D. H. Lawrence’s dialect (as against
his “I touched her and she shivered like
* dead snake”) poems in 1913; the
famous (and suppressed) preface to
Lionel Johnson’s poems of 1915, in which
he cuts into the leading poetic prac-
titioners of his time ; and a curious little
note on “The Constant Preaching to the
Mob,” in which he makes out a case
for poetry originating as a solace for
“lonely men,” and not as an “entertain-
ment for men-at-arms, or for men at
monks’ tables.”
They have messed-up the printing of
the Arnaut Daniel text and translations.
Anyone, for instance, who can work out
the sequence of the “L’Aura Mara”
stanzas deserves to be let off reading
Ezra’s translations:
Amor, look yare!
Know certainly
The keys;
How she thy suit receives....
Daniel was the man Dante considered
“the better maker” in words quoted by
Eliot about Pound himself: we can
believe neither while Pound persists in
printing these earnest efforts at a no
doubt impossible task of translation.
R. McCUAIG
Tennessee Williams
Sweet Bird of Youth. Tennessee Wil-
liams. Seeker and Warburg. 17s.
A comparison of the original version
(published in “Esquire,” April, 1959)
and the recently published text of the
latest but one Tennessee Williams play
suggests that a playwright’s second
thoughts may not always surpass his first
ones.
Williams himself has written that a
play does not fully exist until it has
had at least one exposure to an audi-
ence and it is right that much which
seems to work on paper takes on new
emphasis upon contact with that magi-
cally active ingredient of theatre, the
audience. But the resulting revisions—
though they often bring greater focus
and precision to what was tentative and
inexact —can sometimes have a certain
diminution of impact.
The revisions in this case tighten and
strengthen some loose episodes, but cer-
tain vivid side-issues and character
glimpses have been lost and one vital
scene cut altogether, to the detriment, I
think, of the play’s dramatic balance. It
is still a compelling piece of work, the
best play from Williams in years. His
special gift is to create pathetically—but
bravely—struggling creatures and to let
us watch them struggling on the end of
the pin.
Black and savage this play is, but the
grotesqueries of “Suddenly Last Summer”
are avoided and the violence is firmly
related to a well-sketched political back-
ground. For once Williams’s human
beings move not in a dim private hell
but in the objective world. The portrait
of the Southern politician is powerful
and, one feels, authentic ; and the scene
of his rally and the ritual beating-up of
a heckler is chilling even to read and
would be potent in the theatre.
A study of two highly special (and
typical Williams) people, this is, at least
by implication, a comment on the Ameri-
can preoccupation with youth. The ageing
film-star embodies in legendary fashion
the American dream of perpetual physi-
cal glamor. Her gigolo boy-friend,
Chance Wayne, whose one asset is his
body, is introduced to us at a time when
the asset is diminishing as he creeps
beyond 30 and shows signs of wear.
Both are on the run from- reality.
They come to a hotel room in Chance’s
home town where he hopes to meet
again his one-time sweetheart and to
exploit the film-star’s Hollywood con-
tacts in a final bid for fame and money.
He and the small-town girl will be
foisted on the public as “Stars of
Tomorrow.” It is an interesting irony—
not fully exploited—that the film-star
after years of insignificance finds suc-
cess again only when the public responds
not to any artificial “youth” and beauty
but to her unexpected maturity in what
they had expected to be a bad “come-
back” film. She walks out on Chance,
his temporary usefulness as an aphro-
disiac sedative now over, and leaves him
to his fate at the hands of the politician’s
strong-arm boys.
Here we are on familiar Williams
ground: Chance is hated for the venereal
taint he is alleged to have left on the
politician’s daughter, thot old sweetheart,
now a broken, nervy husk of a woman.
The revenge meted out to him is, if
American literature is to be believed, a
popular one in the Southern States. It
has, by tradition, to smack of poetic
justice and is easily imagined. Even
here, however, because of the strong
blocking-in of the Southern climate,
atmospheric and emotional, the macabre
climax is inevitable and right and not
merely sickening as Williams has so often
been.
As usual the language moves skilfully
between knife-edge precision and lumin-
ous overtone. Some find distasteful this
blend of colloquialism and quasi-poetry.
It works in the theatre, in this author’s
case if in no other, because of his trump
card as a creator: his world bears his
individual and authentic stamp of con-
viction so that when we are with the
play we tend to accept unquestioningly
that people do speak in this way and
if they don’t they surely ought to!
In presentation the play uses lighting,
music (the latter, if the stage directions
were followed literally, somewhat self-


BE A
SUCCESSFUL
WRITER!
It YOU have the urge to write and a love of
expressing yourself is words, you caa. learn to
write (Suceessfui Short Stories, Articles, Written
Sketches, Radio Talks, Pars., Verse, etc.
Read what these students have to say about
their successes.
“Daring tire past six months my accept-
ances have returned me over £'t»Wt.”
“I list hereunder my acceptances to the
amount of £KWi/18/8.”
“My earnings from *ny writing total
almost £s#.”
“During the Course I sold five stories,
which more than paid for iuy fees.”
Write TODAY for full particulars and
free “Successful Authorship” Prospectus.
15# Flinders Cane, Melbourne; 148 Custle-
reagh St„ Sydney; 288 Adelaide St,, »ri*-
hane; 81 Grenfell St,, Adelaide; 854 Murray
St-, Perth.
•———OUT AND MAIL IMS COUPON—
To STOTT’S: ~Please send rue, without amj.:.
obligation, jour Prospectus, and lull par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
AGE <«B 861)
consciously), design, color and all the
“production values” of a typical Kazan-
Williams enterprise. As an English critic
has said, Mr Williams knows how to use
the resources of the theatre more than
any other playwright now writing in Eng-
lish. “Sweet Bird of Youth” seems to
restore his work, after its years in the
doldrums, to a prime place in our
theatre. Technically it is no more old-
fashioned than the pseudo-Brechtian
drama of some European and English
playwrights. And the horror this time
has a cleansing effect, a truly cathartic
power.
As it sent shivers down the respectable
spines of some New York critics the play
probably will never be seen here where
the moral climate is even more repressive.
But even to read “Sweet Bird of Youth”
is a salutary experience. The author
again is able to show compassion for his
people and this lifts the play beyond the
clinical and cynical realm of that wild
and wilful middle-period Williams.
ALAN SEYMOUR
What’s Wrong With Labor?
Must Labor Lose ? Mark Abrams and
Richard Rose, with a commentary by
Rita Hinden. Penguin Special. 4s. 6d.
Tt often does —but it need not. One
■*- reason why it does is that politicians
and members of the Labor party are
either unaware of, or ignore, the advances
in political sociology since the days of
Charles Booth, Seebohm Rowntree and
Beatrice Webb.
The book is conveniently divided into
three sections: first, the results of a
survey of 724 people, selected at random
from 50 Parliamentary constituencies,
conducted by Mark Abrams, of Research
Services Ltd ; secondly, Richard Rose,
of Nuffield College, Oxford, takes the
survey findings and discusses their
relationship to political life ; and thirdly,
Dr Rita Hinden, a Fabian and editor of
“Socialist Commentary,” gives her
opinion of the lessons to be learnt from
the survey by the British Labor party.
The most significant discovery was
the fact that only ten per cent, of those
aged between 18 and 24 would vote
Labor in the next election —a fact which
must startle Laborites.
In a way this finding illustrates the
universal problem facing Labor parties.
The young, and not so young, are con-
cerned with the maintenance of the
affluent society—indeed, why shouldn't
they be? Surely nobody believes the
myth of “the good old days.” Young
people want less to identify themselves
with the “working class” than does the
previous generation ; and they see the
Labor party as representing something
their parents talk about in nostalgic
moods.
Rita Hinden takes up the same theme
as the other two: more and more
electors are becoming middle-class and
the Labor party is fast losing ground
in the areas in which it once regarded
as its own. Only 11 per cent, of those
interviewed favored more public owner-
ship ; and what would have pleased those
interviewed least about a 1959 Labor
victory was the prospect of more
nationalisation. What does the Labor
party do about this? Rita Hinden
explains that Socialists have always
thought, and still think, that the real
power in our society lies in the hands of
those who own productive property.
Should Labor discard its principles? The
only interpretation I can make of her
answers is that Socialists should, for a
time, broaden their own understanding
of society and get the “public sector” of
industry to accept its social responsi-
bilities. “The old idea that it has none,
that it could be judged only on the
criterion of its money-making efficiency,
should no longer be accepted. Industry
has its obligations, social as well as econo-
mic, to its workers and the community
at large.”
The book’s chief use lies not in the
answers it gives to Labor’s struggle for
survival now that most of its aims have
been achieved (except its chief one, that
of socialisation) but in the lines of
thought it opens up for those who still
care about the fate of the British (and
Australian) Labor party. The rise of the
“New Left” and the debate which has
been going on in “Encounter” over the
last year, are signs that the Labor party
may get itself out of the ideological mess
that it is in at the moment. But it will
need less of the emotionalism of the
thirties, and more hard thinking than
Labor intellectuals have been prepared
to do in the last two decades. A start
could be made in working out how the
Labor party can detach itself from the
sterile influence of the trade unions.
PETER KELLY
Power in Africa
The Vision Splendid: The Future of the
Central African Federation. C. E.
Lucas Phillips. Heinemann. 3 Is.
These pages will have failed in their
purpose if they have not shown that, with
a few shining exceptions, the Bantu people
are so far totally unequipped, profession-
ally and socially, for full electoral rights
or for more than a small share in the
government of a modern State in which
there is a strong white element and in
which all the major activities are con-
ducted by white people. Light must come
before power.
TF that is how Brigadier Lucas Phillips
*■ insists on judging the success of his
book then 1 am afraid he has failed so far
as this reader is concerned. Light before
power! This may be an admirable
maxim on which to base political
arrangements in the best of all possible
worlds, but it is singularly unreal as a
formula for contemporary Africa.
In any case, exactly how much candle-
power is supposed to be the necessary
illuminant for each political step for-
ward?
The plain fact of the matter, of course,
is that the British Government will con-
tinue to increase African political power
in Northern Rhodesia and Nyasaland
with gathering momentum. The British
public will not allow it to do otherwise.
Even if it were to do so, the pressure of
world opinion, with increasingly effective
ways of making itself felt, would not
long tolerate the denial of political rights
to the populations of African or Asian
territories. Only the Communist Powers
are permitted the luxury of unchecked
colonialism these days. Even Southern
Rhodesia with its more substantial white
minority (though even here not one man
in 12 is white) will soon have to toe the
racial equality line if it wants the Federa-
tion to continue. And it does very much
want just that; much of its economic
strength is drawn from the Northern
Rhodesian “copper belt.'’
The tragedy is that the author is sub-
stantially correct in his facts. The Bantu
peoples are still on the whole ill-
educated, primitive, given to sorcery, and
imposed upon by semi-terrorist political
organisations. They have a much shorter
history of effective contact with civilisa-
tion than the peoples of some of the
West African States. It would indeed
have been more hopeful if “illumina-
tion” had advanced much farther before
they developed extensive political
aspirations. All of this Lucas Philips
shows quite clearly and in some detail.
He reveals an excellent grasp of the
social, economic and political history of
the various regions that comprise the
half million square miles of the Federa-
tion. The book itself is richly endowed
with information illustrated fey many
photographs, maps and diagrams.
Nevertheless these people do now have
political demands to make. It may be
unwise or even irrational of them, but
there it is.* There is obviously consider-
able uncertainty and even danger ri
placing much effective power in their
hands. But there is absolute lunacy in
trying to withhold it. This would merely
accelerate all the destructive forces of


racial ill-will which the author rightly
fears. However, the danger may not be
quite as grave as he claims. It is signifi-
cant that he altogether fails to discuss
neighboring Tanganyika where an Afri-
can Government headed by Mr Julius
Nyerere now rules in a quite responsible
manner.
It is not that the Brigadier displays
color prejudice, or at least not in any
overt way. He seems genuinely con-
cerned for the African to develop to the
full socially, economically, culturally
and (eventually) politically. He looks
forward to the “vision splendid” of a
happy land inhabited by free and equal
people It is simply that his thinking is
anachronistic.
WILLIAM GINNAME
Science Fiction?
/I Canticle for Leibowitz■ Walter Miller.
Weidenfeld and Nicolson. 225. 6d.
The English-speaking world, at least,
seems at present to be having a
vintage period for novels. This excellent
book is difficult to classify as to genre:
of three critics quoted on the dustcover
two accept it as science fiction, one says
it is “certainly not.” Undoubtedly it is
an amazing imaginative feat: to quote
Kingsley Amis “It is a serious (not
earnest), imaginative (not fantastic),
religious (not religiose) novel.”
In time, “A Canticle for Leibowitz”
covers many centuries; in place, it is
largely confined to an abbey in the
American desert which was founded at
the end of the 20th century by a scientist,
I. E. Leibowitz. In his lifetime wide-
spread atomic war devastated the world’s
cities. Following the holocaust came
“the Deluge, the Fallout, the plagues,
the madness, the confusion of tongues,
the rage . . .” and then came the “Age
of Simplification” when the surviving
remnants of humanity turned violently
against the rulers, scientists, leaders,
technicians, teachers whom they believed
to have caused their miseries, and when
to be a “simpleton” was the desire of
every average man.
The few learned people left sought
any available sanctuary, and the Holy
Church received many of them, hiding
them in monasteries and convents and
robing them as monks and nuns. Leibo-
witz had been one of these, had gained
permission to found his own community,
the Albertian Order of Leibowitz, whose
task was to preserve the remnants of
human knowledge from the mob. Leibo-
witzian monks were either “bookleggers”
who smuggled books and documents to
desert hiding places, or “memorisers”
who carried in their heads “entire
volumes of history, sacred writings,
literature and science.’’
The first part of the novel, “Fiat
Homo,” concerns events at the monastery
s °me 600 years after the Age of Simpli-
fication. This is an era approximating
to the European “Dark Ages.” The
Monks busily illuminate their sacred
.Memorabilia” —one spends 15 years
dluminating a copy of a blueprint for
an electric circuit designed by Leibowitz
Nine Name Rhymes for Children
By ERIC C. ROLLS
ANN
Ann
Was found in a can.
She was not born like you or me
Or picked from somebody’s Christmas
tree
But sold by a grocer in a tin
Which said on the label “Ann in oil.
Handle carefully. Do not boil.
Open one end or the other.”
The tin was bought by Annie’s mother
Who followed directions and opened
it wide
And found that Ann was packed
inside.
KIM
Kim,
What of him?
He grew dim.
His mother thought him rather frail
And gave him medicine by the pail
Which did no good —he just grew
dimmer
Till soon there was scarcely a glimmer
Of him.
His father said “He’s grown so faint
I’ll give him a coat of dark brown
paint.
At least if it doesn’t effect a cure
The lad will not be so obscure.”
NERAILIE
Nerailie eats her daily bread
Standing meekly on her head.
She declares if she stands upright
It always spoils her appetite.
Thus at lunchtime you may see
A curious crowd about while she
Stands upon her little head
Eating up her daily bread.
BILL
Bill
Felt ill
Took a pill;
Felt ill
Took a pill ;
Felt ill
Took a pill;
Went to his brother
He gave him another;
Went to his mother
She gave him another ;
Went to his father
He gave him another ;
Went to his aunt,
She said “You can't
Have any more
Lest you roll on the floor
In pain while you rattle
Like peas in a bottle.”
ERIC
Eric Eric Waffle-gum-goop
Fills his pockets with pumpkin soup
Which keeps him warm as he rides to
school.
By lunch-time it has grown so cool
That Eric Eric proudly stands
And eats it scooped in his hollowed
hands
And declares that Mrs Waffle-gum-
goop
Makes the finest pumpkin so”p.
JOAN
Oh, it’s Joan.
Hear her moan.
There is nothing right:
Her frock is tight;
She has two left feet;
Her hair isn’t neat;
Her ears are long ;
Her eyes are wrong ;
She doesn’t like school
Or cotton or wool
Or breakfast or dinner
Or not be the winner;
She likes to groan—
Oh Joan.
WAYNE
Wayne
Had a pain
In his toe.
Did he know
Which toe?
Oh no.
He took off a boot
And he said to his foot
“Oh toes, are you well?
Please tell.”
Big Toe, Little Toe answered together
“Thank you. We’re well
And Middle Toe answered and each
of his brothers
“We three are quite as well as the
others.”
So Wayne took off his other boot
And he looked at his toes and he said
to his foot
“Oh toes, are you well?
Please tell.”
Big Toe, Little Toe answered together
“Thank you. We’re well ;”
And Middle Toe answered and one of
his brothers
“We two are quite as well as the
others;”
But the last one said “Alas, I’m not
And I don’t know what it is I’ve got:
All I know I’ve a terrible pain
Which bothers me and bothers
Wayne.”
GEOFFREY
Look at silly Geoff.
He shook his head and it fell off.
He picked it up by the right ear;
The ear pulled off, a nasty tear.
He tried to lift it by the tongue.
It stretched and stretched and grew
so long
That Geoff rey said “I must be wrong.”
With that he seized it by the hair
And set it on but took no care
For back to front he stuck it fast
With nails and pins and paper paste,
And lately ali that he has seen
As he walked to school is where he’s
been.
MITCHELL
Mitchell thought it would be good
To chop his father firewood.
He took his axe and it and he
Hacked a mighty old dead tree.
The tree fell down
And he chopped it up.
Oh what a silly little pup—
To chop it down
Then chop it up.


READ
THE NEW ECONOMICS
for a scientific analysis of economic
problems with constructive proposals for
their resolution.
Published monthly—annual subscription
£2/2/-.
Initial copy free without obligation.
Apply Hon. Secretary, New Economics
Association, 160 Whitehorse Road,
Blackburn, Victoria.
BOOKHUNTER
Uept. “»'* «ox 2«? t, 0.t'.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
himself, although what electricity is has
long been forgotten. During this period
a fallout shelter is discovered that con-
tains additional scientific material and
evidence which leads the Pope at New
Rome to accept Leibowitz’s candidature
for Sanctification.
The outside world at this time is a
wild undisciplined place roamed by
robber bands culled from the encamp-
ments of the “misbegotten” human
mutants freakish physically, morally, or
both —and by wild beasts, mutant and
normal.
Part two, “Fiat Lux,” could be seen
as a rough parallel to the European
Renaissance. A monk at the abbey con-
structs a basement dynamo worked by
manpower, and “electrical essences”
light the precious library, shining upon
the world for the first time in a thousand
years. Kings and States are arising—
States with names like Texarkana and
kings with names like Hannegan. Latter-
day approximations to Copernicus and
Galileo begin to make a pattern from
the clues anciently preserved in surviving
20th century documents. Men dream
again of technological achievement. The
Church, which has fostered knowledge,
once more has good cause to deplore
man’s irresponsibility and materialism.
“Fiat Voluntas Tua,” the third and
last part, is again so many centuries after
this that the main figures in Part 2
are barely remembered legends. Man
has again found Space—Space is a com-
monplace. So is the threat of atomic
war and atomic war ends the civilised
world and the book, with representatives
of the Abbey and the mother Church
escaping to Space with a new cache of
“Memorabilia” and a new hope for man’s
eventual grace—God willing.
This outline is necessarily bald. It
conveys nothing of the humor and
scholarship of the book or of the
fascination of its characters. There is
the fainting Brother Francis of Part 1,
God’s unwilling and unwitting instru-
ment —or was the instrument, rather, not
the Wandering Jew, neither unwilling
nor unwitting? You will have to read
about the Poet to believe in his removable
conscience and his pet, the blue-headed
mutant goat, but having read you will
believe.
There are the minor —or are they
minor? problems confronting the
clergy, such as the question of whether
a mutant second head on human
shoulders has or has not a separate soul
—should it have separate baptism?
There are the splendid plays on words —
and for readers with a knowledge of
Latin, and particularly of liturgical Latin,
these pages have added richness for
Latin has come into its own again.
Neither does a brief outline suggest
the compassion and deep reverence
which informs even the most satirical
passages of this book. Walter Miller
says that it was his participation during
his Army Air Corps service in the bomb-
ing of the Benedictine Abbey of Monte
Cassino which 15 years later prompted
him to write this book, his first novel.
I found the first two chapters rather hard
going—it takes a while to accept the
style and the fantasy, and for the writing
to warm up, but once a reader accepts
“A Canticle for Leibowitz” on its own
strange and compelling terms he will
find it very hard to put down.
NANCY KEESING
Childhood Memories
A Breath of Fresh Air. F. C. Ball.
Faber 18s.
Cotswold Lad. Sid Knight. Phoenix
House. 255.
a whimsical grandfather or
” uncle, anyone can write an account
of his childhood and have it published.
But a whimsical grandfather is not really
enough, neither is a good literary style:
the first essential is the ability to look
back steadily to childhood and see it
whole, presenting it as a child ex-
perienced it, recreating a lost world with-
out the embellishments and interferences
of maturity. Richard Church achieved
this in “Over the Bridge,” and so did
David Campbell in “Evening under
Lamplight.”
F. C. Ball is particularly successful in
isolating and recreating his early years.
His book is presented as fiction, but
nevertheless it has the immediacy of an
autobiography. Father is employed as
a gardener at the Big House, and he and
his family live in a tiny cottage belonging
to the estate. They are all uneasily de-
pendent on the Old Gal at the Big
House, and from incident after incident
is built up a picture of the social struc-
ture in rural England which existed until
after the end of the First World War.
The treatment is impartial: the Old Gal
is not only a martinet, but a lonely
woman suffering tragic losses. The book
is outstanding in its vitality, for the five
children spring up as indomitably as their
father’s plants.
In “Cotswold Lad” Sid Knight returns
to the Cotswold village of Broadway as
it was in his youth—by no means the
idyllic place it seems today. There is
plenty of vitality in this book too, but
the grown man intrudes, looking back.
There are pleasant line illustrations by
Harry Toothill.
R.D.
A Novel From France
Passing Time. Michel Butor. Translated
from the French by Jean Stewart,
Faber. 265.
A/fiCHEL Butor is a young French
-l-’-*- novelist and critic —one of the new
and very diverse group of reformers of
the novel —whose work shows a Prous-
tian preoccupation with the problem of
recapturing the past.
“Passing Time” is a portrait both of
a man and of a place. A young French-
man, Jacques Revel, is sent to work in
the English provincial town of Blestoa
Because he is lonely, and also French,
he hates the damp, dreary town. His
only consolations are his study of the
local monuments, especially of a splendid
stained-glass window depicting the
murder of Abel, and the few acquaint-
ances he makes —another Frenchman, an
outcast negro and two attractive young
sisters. But his interest in the sombre
town is quickened by a murder story,
written by a local and set in Bleston,
which he suspects to have been based
on fact. Some sinister coincidences lead
him to try to justify his suspicions. His
investigations are a failure, but in the
course of them he does succeed in clari-
fying his own relation to the town he
has been forced to live in.
The structure of the novel is so com-
plex that attempts to describe it briefly
become confused. For a start it is
written in the form of a diary, a two-
part diary in which Revel tries to record
both the present and the past logically
and objectively, only to discover that each
new day casts a more confusing light on
what he has already written, so that
inevitably the passing time thwarts his
attempts to recapture and order the past.
Woven into this is the murder story,
which has already been written as fiction
but which threatens to become fact.
That Butor handles these complexities
with complete clarity is a tribute to his
skill, but more impressive still is the
success with which he uses the very
structure of the novel to illuminate the
human problems of self-knowledge,
created by the passing of time. Ones
interest in Revel finally becomes concefl-
trated not on his attempt to solve a
mystery or win one of the sisters, but on
the struggle he has with himself to grasp
the significance of his actions before they
are lost in the past. Like Proust he does
not choose, but tries to recall everything
in clear detail. For Butor a man has
learnt something when he has cleared
away a small portion of the confusion |
in which he lives.
He makes his point with a mixture of
realism, formalism and symbolism, whicn
he says himself are indissoluble.
“Passing Time” the realism comes
through the minute examination
events and places, the formalism through
his tight structure, and the symbolic
through his recreation of the splendor*
of Bleston’s artistic monuments.
his novels the same elements will ot
found, always brilliantly woven together
as they are in this rich and absorbs?
work.
WILLIAN HANNAN


LOOK BACK AT ANGER: Capital Punishment
From THE BULLETIN, May 16, 1891.
THE NEW SOCIAL FUNCTION
WRITWRIGHT (THE MELBOURNE SOLICITOR): “Reprieve Johnston,
sir? Absurd! Besides, I'm promised six tickets for the execution, and
the duty of the Crown is clear.”


Business, Rollery, Etc.
Roads a Federal Cost?
A ustralia’s development
over the next 10 years
will be limited if transport
services are not adequate in
quality and quantity, two lead-
ing Australian economists have
found. They said the huge
problem of road finance could
not be solved by individual
States and there was little doubt
that the Federal Government
must take a role that eventually
would make it solely respon-
sible for highway development.
The economists are Mr K.
M. Kolsen and Mr H. D.
Black, lecturers in economics at
Sydney University. Their find-
ings are contained in a report
they made on Australian road
transport for the Australian
Road Transport Federation.
They said the most important
road transport costs were deter-
mined by government taxation
policies and the provision by
governments of the many facili-
ties necessary as preliminaries
for successful road haulage.
But this position was compli-
cated because the collecting
agency for some taxes was the
Federal Government and
spending was almost exclusively
the province of State govern-
ments.
They emphasised that there
was no overall direct link be-
tween tax revenue from the
motor industry and the spend-
ing of money for the industry's
benefit. The motor industry
paid more in taxes than it re-
ceived in benefits and this
helped to raise costs. Govern-
ments in Australia regarded the
motor vehicle industry as a
whole as a source of tax
revenue, much in the same way
as industries producing alco-
holic beverages and tobacco
were regarded.
"If business is THAT bad We'd better have some more
mink and another car."
“Where demand is not very
responsive to price changes, the
imposition of a tax does not
lead to a reduction in the
quantity sold and therefore tax
revenue is not reduced,” the
report continues.
HThe report urges that first of
all, some decision must be
reached as to the amount of
money to be spent on road con-
struction and maintenance.
The two investigators felt
that ideally, the total amount
invested must be that which
achieved the same relationship
between benefits and costs in
roads as existed in other fields,
such as railways, electricity
supplies, hospitals and schools.
The economists quoted a
report by the Australian Trans-
port Advisory Council which
felt that between 66 and 75
per cent, of construction and
maintenance costs should be
borne by motorists of all kinds,
the rest coming from land
owners and the general com-
munity The report also de-
clared that the minimum
amount to be spent on roads in
Australia over the 10 years
from 1956-57 should be £1643
million. Estimated actual ex-
penditure would be £1325 mil-
lion, £3lB million short of
this. Mr Black and Mr Kolsen
said the necessary money could
be raised through a better dis-
tribution of costs between the
various classes of road users.
They suggested that all road
users pay two charges:
• A fixed charge based on
the total cost of building lighter
roads.
• A second charge varying
according to the actual use
made of highways and based on
some formula such as the ton-
mile with allowances for
variables such as speed.
9 Heavy vehicles would pay
additional charges to make up
their share of the cost of mak-
ing highways capable of carry-
ing them.
They said the petrol tax was
far from being a good indica-
tor of road use, and this was
among a number of objections
to the present system. It was
doubtful if fuel use was an
accurate measure of mainten-
ance costs —a vehicle having
twice the road damaging pro-
pensities as another does not
necessarily use twice as much
fuel.
“A better solution would be
the installation of a simple
meter which records mileage
This could be inexpensive and
work from tail shaft revolu-
tions. It would be read annu-
ally when registration is re-
newed.”
The mileage could be multi-
plied by some factor deter-
mined by road engineers and
fuel taxes could be reduced to
what government policies dic-
tate as reasonable for raising
general revenue.
Designing for Export
/"\ne of the most vital factors
being overlooked in Aus-
tralia’s drive to build up its
strength as an exporting nation
is the designing of products,
with utmost astuteness and
skill, for foreign markets.
This is the view of the direc-
tor of the Industrial Design
Council of Australia, Mr Colin
Barrie, who, commenting on a
recent Bulletin examination
of export problems, says that
no matter what inducements
and concessions are offered to
manufacturers and no matter
what Government support is
given by way of promotion
programmes “the ultimate test
for manufactured goods will be
their design standard com-
pared with what is offering
from other countries.”
“This does not mean over-
looking the price factor,” Mr
Barrie emphasises. “It means
that Australian goods within
any given price range must still
have something to offer which
will beat competition—and that
‘something’ is the quality of
their design. Needless to say,
skilled design can often achieve
economies in production pro-
cesses and materials, thus re-
ducing costs. But with basic-
ally high production costs in
this country the Australian
article must depend largely on
outstanding design. It must,
in other words, make an appeal
which will achieve sales on
design if not on price.
“There appears to be a head-
in-the-sand attitude in Austra-
lia about this vital question of
how original and skilful design
in manufactured goods is to be
achieved. For a long time we
have depended to a great extent
on ideas borrowed from over-
seas and on licences for the
manufacture of overseas
designs. The latter usually pre-
clude sales outside Australia
because these are the province
of the company which origi-
nated the design.
“Until this country gets more
of its own thinking into pro-
duction it must remain w ell
behind overseas developments
in manufactured goods. F° r
the thinking of overseas manu-
facturers has already svvep
years beyond products already


Do you know how
A “FAMILY
TRUST”
would benefit
your dependents?
IV
Your Estate, whether it consists of real
estate, a business, or investment holdings,
may attract much higher Death Duties than
you think—leaving far less than you
imagined for your beneficiaries.
Expert advice on Estate Planning, and the
setting up of a Family Trust, designed to
meet your personal requirements, can
result in appreciable savings through
reduced Tax and Death Duties, and help
conserve your assets, both during your
lifetime and afterwards.
Appointment of the Company as Trustee
of the Family Trust ensures competent
counsel and management of all matters by
specialists—at moderate charges.
Why not examine, without delay, the advan-
tages of such an arrangement—in a
confidential discussion of your financial
affairs?
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St, Melbourne, C.l.
20 O’Connell St., Sydney.
398-402 Queen St., Brisbane.
Also at Newcastle, Albury, Toowoomba,
Rockhampton, Townsville and Charleville.
UT3sa.&2J>l
on the market. It is not gener-
a Uy realised that in manufac-
turing industry a design may
take three year s—or even
longer—to come off the produc-
tion line from the time its early
conception is sketched on the
drawing board.
“What takes even longer to
produce, of course, is the
designer with the necessary
skill, training and experience
to serve modern industry in the
development of new products,
Any investigation of training in
this country compared with
what is available in Europe,
England, the U.S.A. and Japan
would reveal a situation so
parlous as to leave one with no
effective answer to the ques-
tion: ‘What is being done to
make possible in Australia the
designing of products which
will be able to compete with
overseas competitors in overall
design, that is in the integra-
tion of technological factors
with considerations of appear-
ance and consumer conveni-
ence?’ The attention being
paid to design training in
manufacturing countries over-
seas leaves no doubt as to its
significance in any drive for
exports. And not only in rela-
tion to exports, but in defend-
ing home markets,
“When one is aware of the
deplorable inadequacy of train-
ing in the whole field of pro-
duct design in Australia, a great
deal of what is being said and
done about exports of manu-
factured goods seems like pre-
paring to launch a ship which
is out of date before it hits the
water. This is not to say that
there is not some excellent
designing being done in Austra-
lian industry. Some of our
more enlightened manufac-
turers are engaging in original
product design and what they
are achieving shows the possi-
bilities which exist if our
national talent and inventive-
ness were fully developed.”
Drain on N.Z.'s Reserves
Mew Zealand’s overseas re-
serves are still dangerously
low. At April 5 they stood at
£51.1 million, little more than
half what they were a year
before.
The Government is being
forced into measures designed
to damp down the economy,
but, because import control
remains, it does not need to
act as drastically as did the
Australian Government.
Much as the new National
Government dislikes import
controls it has decided that they
must continue for at least two
years.
Meantime, “with the greatest
reluctance and only in the face
of compelling economic forces”
it has suspended the replace-
ment import licence scheme.
This scheme allowed importers
to gain an initial licence alio-
cation of 100 per cent, of 1960
licences and to obtain another
50 per cent, when the initial
allocation had been used.
Items at present marked R
heplacement) have been divided
into two categories, those for
w hich no more licences will be
lssue d for the 1961 licensing
Period and those for which any
additional licences will be
issued, only when an urgent
nee d is proved. There will be
n ° automatic issue
. Misestimated that the saving
» overseas exchange for the
** may amount to as much
as £5O million
U '
1\ oulations which will
diff il a little more
mcult ’ to buy goods on hire
purchase have also been intro-
duced.
For furniture and furnishings
a minimum of 5 per cent,
deposit will be required, with
a maximum period of credit of
18 months,
For new motor cars the
deposit will be 66f per cent,
with repayments over 12
months, and for second-hand
cars 50 per cent, deposit, re-
payment over 18 months.
Tnternally, the Government’s
finances are in better shape,
The announcement of a £4.2
million overall cash surplus in
the Public Accounts for the
year to March 31 came as a
surprise. A deficit of £25
million was forecast when the
Government came into office
y ear -
Major factors contributing
to the £4.2 million surplus were
the raising of £13,700,000 in the
recent Government cash loan ;
a much higher level of receipts
than ha d been originally esti-
mated ; and a lower rate of
expenditure, particularly on
works projects, than had been
a 'l°wed for.
A million loan was made
.the dairy industry to assist
Jt in a difficult trading period.
Tak . in g into account the £5
million which was repaid by the
dair >' industry earlier in the
p ar ’ '. here was a r ?“'P‘
from thls source of 11 m,,110n -
Ci NE resu lt of the balance of
payments problem appears
to be the Government’s decision
at last to apply formally to join
the International Monetary
Fund, the World Bank and the
International Finance Corpora-
tion.
This move was recommended
by the Monetary Commission a
few years ago and has long
been advocated by the Reserve
Bank, Treasury and most finan-
cial experts. There has how-
ever, been strong opposition,
even some within the Govern-
ment’s party.
The Government is now con-
vinced that the advantages of
membership, such as access to
short-term loans from the fund
on most favorable terms and to
loan-term loans from the World
Bank for development pur-
poses, are substantial.
It is pointed out, however,
that the formal application is
not a commitment to join. It
is a necessary preliminary to
negotiations on the terms and
conditions on which would be
offered membership.
If the terms and conditions
of membership are acceptable,
legislation will be introduced
early in the session to enable
Parliament to consider the
question.


WW'-
mm
1
Your investment
backed by the
resources
L of..
UfaTkln%e\k
REGISTERED 1
FIRST
DEBENTURE
V STOCK /
Australia's
largest Radio, TV and Electrical
Retailers.
INTEREST PAID QUARTERLY
YOUR MONEY EARNS i
THESE LIBERAL RATES
s
5
0
O
2
O
>
9
o
o
SHORT
TERM
3 MONTHS
NOTICE
5h% P.A.
6 MONTHS
NOTICE
7% P.A.
12 MONTHS
NOTICE
8% P.A.
LONG
TERM
4 YEARS
8% P.A.
5 AND 6
YEARS
81% P.A.
7 TO 20
YEARS
9% P.A.
Assets
Exceed
£24,000,000
Applications will be accepted
only on the printed form
attached to the prospectus.
Trustees for Debenture Stockholders:
The M.L.C. Nominees Pty. ltd.
Investments in short term stock are for an indefinite period. Repay-
ment is obtained by giving notice selected on the application form.
WHERE TO INVEST:
• Registered Office
321-5 Chapel Rd., Bankstown,
N.S.W.
• Any H. 6. Palmer Showroom
• ANY BRANCH OF:
Australia & New Zealand
Bank Limited.
The National Bank of
Australasia Limited.
• Any member of a recognised
Stock Exchange.
Underwriting Brokers:
N.S.W.: Bernard Curran & Co.,
9-1 1 Hunter Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: Vinton Smith, Dougall &
Co., 401 Collins St., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Ernest H. Corser, Hen-
derson & Hale, 334 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUST.: Woodhead, Needham
& Tolhurst, 35 Grenfell St., Adelaide.
TASMANIA: H. W. Bayley S, Co.,
A.M.P. Building, cnr. entrance Collins
and Elizabeth Streets, Hobart.
WEST AUST.: Geo. H. Newtown,
Fuller & Co., 105 St. George's Terrace,
Perth.
POST THIS
COUPON TODAY
To: H. G. Palmer (Consolidated) Limited,
321-5 Chapel Road, Bankstown, N.S.W.
Please send without cost or obligation one copy of the
prospectus to.
NAME
ADDRESS
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incc/rporaiect by Royal Charter A D 1720)
Assets exceed £173,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O’Connell Streets, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
Speculator's Diary
Friday, April 28
TPhe ink had barely dried on
last week’s diary than
things began to happen, par-
ticularly on the oil front. I
had only had my A.O.G. shares
four days before they leapt up
into the 19s. bracket.
Ever since the first good
news from Tara back in
December I had been on the
verge of buying A.O.G. But
1 kept thinking of what had
happened with all previous oil
“strikes” and that had steadied
my hand. In the end it was
my broker who finally nudged
me into buying 200.
What had impressed me all
along was the way the shares
had kept steadily moving for-
ward despite the long absence
of any further encouraging
report from the company. And
when that report finally
appeared in Monday morning's
paper it was couched in con-
vincingly restrained terms,
admitting only to “indica-
tions” of light gravity oil and
gas. The way the market has
behaved since this news has
been equally impressive.
By Thursday l could hold my
nerve no longer and iut on
an order to sell 100 at 19s. In
fact, I got 19s. 4jd. to give me
a profit of £23 after holding
the shares for only seven days.
And I still have 100 shares
running for me.
The week’s news also finally
brought to light the annual
report from F. W. Williams,
which I very nearly sold the
week before when I was short
of cash. On the face of it,
the disclosed profit of £93,000
was not very exciting. But
what the company seemed to
be saying, and not very clearly,
was that its real profit was very
much higher than that if only
it could disclose its share of
the operating companies’
profits. The significant remark
seemed to be that on this basis
the earning rate on capital had
been maintained. And as last
year’s earning rate was 34.3 per
cent, that would mean that this
year’s profit in fact must have
been somewhere in the vicinity
of £280,000, or treble the
figure disclosed!
My main problem this week
seemed to be to get a bit of
cash in hand. Last week’s
trading left me owing my
broker £144, and even the sale
of 100 A.O.G. still left me in
debt to the tune of £49.
Although I bought nothing at
ail this week, I wanted some
cash, as I have my eye on
Blue Metal and Marrickville
rights which came on the
market only this week. Some
Blue Metal rights would mean
I would be in three companies
in the same field, so I decided
to drop my 300 Bayview. I sold
for a profit of £2O.
The week’s transactions
were:
SOLD
100 A.O.G. at i 9/4i .. £95
300 Bayview at 18/3 .. £269
These sales gave me a week’s
profit of £43 and left me with
£220 to play with again, it
will soon go.
Now 1 am holding:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Total l'er rent
Shares Company Cost Share Priee
-Oh Antill K £123 12/- 13/6
100 Pick-Me-Up 414 81/6 86/6
•">OO Merien 165 (i/4 7/-
300 Stocks Hold-
in deferred 127 8/3 7/6
200 Tom Piper 235 21!/- 24/3
40(1 Pioneer Con-
crete 334 16/3 17/-
200 Hornibrook 234 23/- 26/-
200 Parbury
Henty 174 17/- 16/3
200 F. W.
Williams 273 27 - 30/9
200 Marrickville 225 22/- 23/6
25 Marrickville
rights 13/2
200 Marley
Reliance 169 16/6 17/6
200 David Jones
notes 101 9/10 10/10
200 Concrete Ind,
contribs. 96 9/5 10/
400 N. B Love
contribs. 94 4/8 5/7
100 A.O.U. 72 14/- 19/6
200 A. G. Sims 55 5/3 5/5
100 John Lysaght 100 20/- 20/-
500 Newcastle Ten
Pin Bowling 125 5/- &/"


A Comic Tragedy
In “The One Day of the Year” at
Sydney Palace Alan Seymour has made a
first-rate and enjoyable play out of a
university student’s quarrel with his
THEATRE
returned-s o 1 d i e r lift-
driver father over Anzac
Day celebrations. With
his girl friend, a rich
student from the North Shore, the student
produces an article and pictures caustic-
ally critical of the Anzac Day spree in
the university magazine, and in the
ensuing brawl with his father he is forced
to choose between the girl and his family,
and stays with his family.
The pleasure of the play is in its
pictures of people rather than its ideas.
The adroit handling of the Anzac Day
theme, by which each was allowed the
right the soldiers fought for—to his honest
opinion—robbed it of its force. More-
over, in criticising what he considered the
degradation of a ceremony the boy was,
if somewhat priggishly, upholding it.
There is more force in the theme of
class conflict: the savage resentment of
the North Shore girl by the Paddington
father did break up the son’s love affair.
Mr Seymour’s writing here gave Judith
Arthy a difficult job. She had to play the
hard brilliance of a young university stu-
dent and at the same time seem softened
with love for the son (Lew Luton), a cir-
cumstance in which hard brilliance is
commonly damped down with under-
standing But certainly she made no
effort to understand her young man's
father ; instead she denounced him and
forced him to a pathetic pose as one of
the world's armies of failures.
The idea that the father symbolises
failure is a third possible theme: he and
his friends, the boy says angrily, are
failures celebrating a failure (Gallipoli) ;
but it is not only Gallipoli that they
celebrate, and as the father has not tried
much he cannot fail much.
Finally there is the theme, very much
in the air in play after play today, of
the exasperation of children with parents
from whom they have become separated
by higher education. This ends the play
with the son in tragic despair at having
to stay with a father and mother who
grate on his nerves. From a practical
point of view it is better for him to lose
a girl he cannot keep up with, and to
go on through the university to stand on
his own feet—but to say this is to reduce
the tragic quality of the theme.
In short, there is no profound tragic
theme to compare with the simple “grow-
ing old” theme of “The Doll,” yet the
play’s ideas make a framework for a
superb presentation of its people. This
class-conscious play breaks through the
barriers of class with a hundred shrewd
observations of Australian people and
family life. From a rocklike calm built
of worked-out furies and despair, Nita
Parnell, as Dot Cook the Sydney slum
housewife, grimly dropped phrase after
phrase into the audience, and the ripples
of delighted recognition spread beyond
Paddington to the North Shore and out
to Bourke. “I dunno which of you’s
worse,” she says when father and son
are quarrelling; and there was also:
“Would you like a cup of tea?”
“No, thanks.”
“It’s no trouble to me to make it.”
“I DON’T WANT ONE!”
The humor cancels out the tragedy.
It is not the father’s morbidity but the
return of Alf Cook drunk from the Anzac
celebrations that gives Ron Haddrick his
best moments. During the long and
exuberant account of his day the heart
of the reviewer, who would run a mile
rather than share in such doings, went
out to him. If he did not achieve the
sense of glory with which Baudelaire
endowed the celebrating veterans of his
greatest poem, he brought his “one day
of the year” to life and made it clear
why, to him, it was worthwhile.
There is excellent stagecraft, too, in
the way Wacka Dawson, the old family
friend, is introduced throughout the play
as the Gallipoli veteran who cannot be
persuaded to talk, so that when at last
Mrs Cook gets him talking Reg Lye is
presented with a theatre as quiet as a
two-minute silence, and in his halting
account of how it felt to be in The Land-
ing he certainly kept it that way.
It was this continuous portraiture of
working-class Australians that made the
piece: their prejudices against the rich
and against everyone and everything
foreign, the emotion working in Alf
Cook’s face when he asks the North Shore
girl if she’ll have a drink and she answers
gaily that she’ll have a small Scotch, the
stolid entrance of Mrs Cook from her
euchre party to the kitchen where the
cronies are drinking beer, the comport-
ment of Mrs Cook and Wacka Dawson
in front of the TV receiver telecasting the
Anzac march . . .
If “One Day of the Year” has not a
tragic theme as powerful as that of “The
Doll,” nevertheless to the extent that it
pictures Australians under the economic
necessity of working for their living it is
closer to life. Here there is no big-money
whoopee making a heightened cliff for
tragedy, but an amusement and dilemma
screwed out of banality itself.
Robin Lovejoy’s production made it
possible to see all this clearly, and Anne
Fraser’s single setting combining kitchen,
living room and boy’s bedroom, with a
mordant commentary on stained-glass
fanlights, engraved mirrors and other
gewgaws, spoke to the imagination with
a further clarity we probably take too
much for granted in Trust performances.
RONALD McCUAIG
Shows
“SUDDENLY LAST SUMMER”
Melbourne Arts Theatre
Very soon after the beginning of this
turgid, prolonged one-act drama of the
fantastic cultivation and eventual collapse
of an illusion it became evident that the
cast was not unaware of the recently
screened Hollywood version. This sus-
applied particularly to Phyll
Ophel’s playing of the young homo-
sexual poet’s mother, and Dawn Kling-
burg’s of his cousin who found herself
in a mental asylum under the threat of a
leucotomy after taking over from the
mother as procuress and stand-in Muse
for the poet.
Those who saw the film will remember
most vividly its most noteworthy aspect,
Katherine Hepburn as the mother. Those
who see this production will detect a
disturbing amount of Hepburn in Phyll
Ophel’s mother. The same, perhaps even
more so, goes for Miss Klingburg in the
role taken by Elizabeth Taylor, from
make-up to voice inflections.
This does not mean that Gordon Leed’s
production failed or that his two leading
ladies turned in anything less than com-
petent, sometimes most moving perform-
ances. What is meant is that if Mel-
bourne’s little theatres are to come signifi-
cantly alive—and it’s about time they did
—then they must fashion their own con-
cepts, and leave the celluloid moguls to
theirs.
A. S. Jorgensen
MUSIC
STERN’S BARTOK
Far too much remains to be discovered
in the music of Bartok, even by per-
formers and listeners who study him to
the depths of fascinated aifection, for
any player or critic to pronounce this
or that performance to be the definitive
one, from which all progress must be
as downward as marches begun from the
North Pole.
But two things can certainly be said
of the magnificent traversal by violinist
Isaac Stern of the solo music in Bartok’s
“Szekely” concerto at Sydney Town Hall
the other night—first, that this is the
supreme piece of concerto writing of
this century and, second, that there is
no other man alive who is better equipped
than Stern to disclose the teeming secrets
in this great music’s violences, tran-
quillities, abrasions of harmony, scorch-
ings of rhythm and ineffaceable race
memory. No other work of Bartok’s, for
big forces, so surely and purely con-
denses into a single frame all that is so
powerful, incisive and humbug-annihilat-
ing in his thoughts in and about music.
Stern must have found the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra’s performance,
under Malko, uncommonly helpful and


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
O'SULLIVAN
■_* f PTYLTD .'Jr*
TRADED*” I *' MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co,
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IS YEARS UF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN RL'RLIC
RUPTURE PAIN BANISHER
New scientific principle MYO-
PLASTEX is result of years of in-
tensive research. Holds severest
rupture in complete safety. Acts
softly ns with fingertips. Why
suffer discomfort a day longer when
MYO-PLASTEX can give you per-
manent relief immediately. Send
for free booklet
MYO-PLASTEX CO.,
T. E. Turner, proprietor,
152 Hereford St„ P.O. Box 1547,
Christchurch. N.Z.
sympathetic at most times, though he
had some reason for anxiety about the
orchestral tempi in places. It would be
interesting to know, for instance, whether
the hushed-thrum opening for harp and
low pizzicato strings was Stern’s own
estimate of Bartok’s “allegro non troppo”
direction, or whether it was Malko’s
renowned “andante” habit asserting itself
as a means of ensuring comfortable pro-
gress. The only point of the score where
Stern’s own tempo seemed at fault was
in the double-stopped third variation of
the slow movement, where the solo part
proceeded at such a jogtrot that this
whole variation’s value as contrast against
the reflectiveness of the others was
jeopardised.
One might have had some questions,
too, about Stern’s laying on of accents
in the first movement —his observations
of the composer’s “risoluto” markings
had resolution, but not always the plung-
ing bite to be expected. But nothing
could have been better than the fierceness
of his attack on the explosive little
quintuplet figure that rounds off some
of the first movement’s “tranquillo”
phrases—nor, for that matter, the easy
absence of gear-change in Stern’s trans-
fer of the singing idiom from Bartokian
modality into a supremely calm Schon-
bergian tone-row.
A word about the orchestra —the play
of color and shocks in the orchestral
part was an excitement for itself. The
dew-dropping translucence given to the
whole texture by the celesta part was
quite magical—and even Stern himself
stood back to admire when, in the last
movement, the full brass let itself go in a
jam session of jubilation, a volcano of
Falstaffian joys at the bubble and ready
to become laugh lava to overrun the
world.
There were raised eyebrows because
Stern played his part from a score
propped up on a stand in front of him.
Why? Indeed, if such devices can ensure
for audiences a more frequent escape
from concerti of the conventional vir-
tuoso repertoire, nobody should care a
jot whether the soloist allows himself
such paraphernalia. If the music’s to be
good, let him bring on a page-turner and
a mute-clerk, too!
Lindsey Browne
ART
DRYSDALE IN QUEENSLAND
The retrospective exhibition of Russell
Drysdale’s work has now got to the
Queensland National Gallery and
though most of what can be said about
it has already been said in other States
I should like to add my tribute: if for
no other reason than that of all the works
shown here I have seen only three before
in the original.
Drysdale has been called “grim” and
his pictures just desolation and loneliness.
I could not agree less. I have taken the
trouble to have a good hard look at
“Going to the Pictures” and “Sunday
Evening” and I find the people in them
quite happy ; tightlipped, yes, but they
clearly understand what it is all about
and, having learned to live in what we
think a forbidding milieu, they prefer
it to any other. And anyway I have been
very lonely in Pitt Street, and afraid. He
sees this clearly and treats these people
with due reverence but does not waste
pity ; he sees the truth as such a sensitive
man would.
His superb and fascinating landscapes
of massively rocky country make
memorable pictures—one in particular,
“Road with Rocks,” in which the tonal
variations of his warm bold magistral
colors in sienna, ochre, umber, etc., form
fantastic shapes with consummate skill
just as did Cezanne when the sterile
formalism of Bougereau drove him out
of the Ecole des Beaux Arts to think
things out for himself.
Two pictures, of all these beautiful
things, will live in my memory: “The
Drover’s Wife,” that naive perplexed
woman who, in her loneliness symbolised
by the bare landscape, asks no questions
of life but has just learned to be content
in it, to wait eternally ; and “Stockman
and his Family.” I would doubt if a
better picture than this has ever been
made in Australia. It recounts the monu-
mental stillness of our primeval aboriginal
brothers ; it is robed in majesty.
I cannot criticise, I can only try to
communicate a happy feeling about this
enchanting exhibition of a master ; his
magnificent color, his fluent composition,
his compassionate sensitivity and his vital
intelligence which all combine to lift
Australian art immeasurably high. Drys-
dale has thought deeply and a lot about
his art; he is an artist, not just a painter.
Since Tom Roberts went we needed this
man.
J. V. Duhig
MELBOURNE INDEPENDENTS
Athenaeum
The key members of Melbourne’s
Independent group, Ronald Kirk, Ken-
neth Jack, Lina Bryans and Bernard
Lawson, certainly stick to their guns.
Their dissimilarity from each other is
equalled only by the remarkable simi-
larity of what is exhibited here with
what they have shown in the past. No-
where do we sense a fresh development,
a broadening wision.
All that we may recognise is a slight
increase in technical facility. Kirk’s soul-
ful men-in-landscapes catch the flavor
of our wheat-growing regions but fail,
as they have failed before, to convince
us that their author has truly transmitted
his more ambitious intentions —i.e., to
say something about the relationship
between a lone man and the indifferent
environment he has to master, in order
that it shall not master him, in the
language of paint and canvas.
Jack, although he seems to be freeing
himself at last of the rigid formal restric-
tions which he imposed willy-nilly on
nearly everything he painted in the past,


still suffers from that incapacity for direct
observation which links his work with
the artificialities of advertising art. This
is reflected especially in his approach
to color and light problems.
Lina Bryans has long been noted for
strength and vigor, and in two land-
scapes this is the characteristic which
commands our attention and admiration,
a sort of child-like hitting out at the
world with a pot of brightly colored
paint, not in aggression, but sheer high
spirits.
Then we come to her portrait of
Tristan Buesst, and nothing is more clear
than her limitations. Detail after detail
is meticulously etched in, and all the
while the big shapes, the basic tones,
become obscured, lose their point. The
end result is simply confusion. Rousseau’s
cry, “Simplify! Simplify!” is one which
Miss Bryans might heed.
Bernard Lawson continues to explore
the nude form by way of Picassoesque
postures (and colors: blue) and women’s
magazine concepts. Nevertheless his
paintings retain a certain face-saving
vitality, mainly because of his intelligent
and sensitive clarification of form with
deft, dark outlines.
A. S. Jorgensen
MILD HR A SCULPTURES
It is with some excitement that one
acknowledges what is likely to prove the
vanguard of a new awareness of sculpture
in this country—the Mildura Gallery’s
£750 sculpture competition.
It is the first nation-wide competition
of its kind and the remarkable response
to it testifies to both an unusual degree
of organisational capacity and imagina-
tion in the gallery’s director, Mr Ernest
van Hattam, and to the hitherto unknow n
fact that Australia has the makings of
a genuine sculptural tradition.
The first prize of £4OO in the monu-
mental sculpture section went to Norma
Redpath for an imposing white plaster
model. “Dawn Figure”; a conventional
choice, but one with some justification
as Miss Redpath has more than most
revealed a sensitivity to the true roles of
the materials she employs as well as an
ability to mould them into a unity of
considerable power and eloquence.
lan Bow’s fascinating series of five
metal-cast figures of man engaged in
various life roles, or Vincent Jomantis’s
tender yet powerful “Poet,” would have
been better choices, none the less, in my
book.
The £IOO prize for indoor sculpture
might well have also gone to Norma Red-
path for her “Boy and Horse,” but the
judges settled for sharing it between
rather academic head studies by Mar-
garet Adams from Victoria and Jean
Likic from Queensland.
Inge King produced a lithe and vital
metal cast “Ballet for Strangers” and this
was used as a most effective part of the
decor for a performance by the Mel-
bourne Ballet Guild which was held in
conjunction with the opening and judging.
It is planned to hold the competition
at three-year intervals.
A. S. Jorgensen
FILMS
DOLCE VITA”
„., . ,
Sydney Lido
' The Sweet Life” is lived by some
Roman aristocrats, show people and
foreigners and it is at its most public in
Via Veneto every fine evening between
eight and midnight. It is a bored, cosmo-
poiiian, pleasure-seeking, glamorous life
where anything is permissible if done with
style. The same can be said of the smart
sets in any cosmopolitan city, but one
of the merits of Fellini’s film is to capture
the distinctive accent of Roman
amoralism
Tl . ' , r- . ~
His central figure is Marcello Mas-
troianni, a journalist - novelist whose
reporting gives Fellini the occasion to
present a panoramic view of the most
lurid aspects of Roman life. Marcello is
at the airport when movie queen Anita
Ekberg arrives, he is on the scene when
rain drenches a crowd seized by religious
hysteria because cunning parents have
persuaded their children to claim they
have seen the Madonna, he takes part
in some old-fashioned orgies in modern
settings, where dress is optional.
There is rarely an episode in which he
does not climb into bed, whether it be
with an aristocratic nymphomaniac or an
American artist with a son almost his own
age, while he is constantly harried by his
mistress, Emma, a domesticated girl
w'ho hopes to trap him with the twin
comforts of kitchen and bedroom.
Fellini’s criticism of Italian life is at its
most telling in this description of the
vicious circle: the more Marcello plays
up, the more anxious his girl friend
becomes that he marry her; and the
more oppressive she becomes, the more
desperately he searches for something
more exciting, less deadening than cosy
domesticity.
. , .
nd unde rneath it all is his inability
to make a choice, to be one thing or the
other, or to find someone who combines
Emmas constancy with the audacity of
the women of la dolce vita. It is Fellini s
a omty to record this weakness,, this dis-
satisfaction, this unhappiness which makes
“l e d „ so truthful, but it also limits it.
Marcello, suffers, he does not act; so he
JTL ere jy sickens with the sweetness of the
declining to a cynical public-relations
man. He cannot even impose a form
on experience which could be told as a
storv
c ’ . t . ...
. tbe " *l] 1S a , oose k string of episodes,
~ nd £ ven } hou^h ea . ch . e .P lsod e is vivid,
* e characterisation incisive, the camera
work always e^P er L especially in the
crowd scenes, the targets of Fellini s
cri lcl . sn \ are quite familiar. No one is
surprised to learn that there are aecadent
aristocrats vacuous film stars, exploiters
of superstition: each of Fellini s exposes
1S brilliant and balanced but none is
Still it is a crowded, constantly lively
fh m °f acute observation and sharp dia-
logue. Fellini’s poetry, the pathos and the
provincial seediness, comes through most
truly when Marcello’s father arrives in
Rome and takes his son to a tomb of a
night-club where he admires the dancing
§ irls and boasts of his prowess. Not only
does d complete the picture of Marcello’s
confused sexual education, it is also
touching—whereas the rest of the long
work is merely brisk,
DESMOND O'GRADY


Pcu'lli ist ihe
At the rate at which the Australian economy
is expanding the next few years should take us
further and faster along the road of well rounded
national achievement.
That hope is based on more than the evidences
of material progress we see around us. It is founded
on the fact that, humanly speaking, we are going
more swiftly into strength.
The birthrate is high, the first waves of the
post-war generation are coming on towards
adulthood, migration is being maintained. These
will have a gathering effect on the national progress
—swelling the work force, creating more spending
power, raising the volume of production.
Add to this steadily increasing flow of life
the still unmeasured wealth of our country; consider
it in the light of what modern science and discovery
are bringing to man’s aid and it becomes plainer
that Australia is only entering its period of
real greatness.
But the working out is not going to be as
simple as an algebraic A plus B. In this equation
there are other factors, some of them complex,
and not all of them confined to controllable
problems that arise from time to time within
Australia itself.
In a world of rapid change, we have been
given a task as large and demanding as any that
has been presented to a single nation in all history
—the developing of an entire continent. And the
challenge it involves is to be measured not by any
standards we ourselves would choose to make, but
by the fleet rule of mankind’s progress as a whole.
So other forces than a gradually growing
strength and the employment of rich resources will
need to be drawn upon if Australia is to win
out to its spiritual as well as its material destiny.
Chief among them is Faith; and that implies
for each one of us an interior Belief, devotion to
Australia’s cause, and a sense of direction in taking
our country on into what should be the greatest age
of achievement the world has known.
//
f
Grey’s Brilliance
Gone with His Wind?
By JOHN SCHOFIELD
Tt is still far from certain whether the grey, Martello Towers,
A has been cured of his respiratory troubles by the operation
performed some months ago.
Martello Towers had his second race since his return to
activity, when he contested the Flying Handicap at Rosehill on
Saturday. It was a disappointing run, because Martello Towers
failed to finish on when in a winning position at the top of
the straight.
But owners, A. E. Cochrane and his son, have not lost
faith in their erstwhile champion. Mr. Cochrane recalled that
almost invariably Martello Towers runs a bad race at his second
appearance after a spell, irrespective of the quality of the first
run.
They are of the opinion that Martello Towers may have
lost his brilliance with age, and that it now may be better to
develop him as a stayer, since, as a three-year-old, Martello
Towers was equal to running one mile and a half to win the
A.J.C. Derby.
Therefore Martello Towers will be entered for the long
races in Brisbane in June and July as well as in the sprint events,
the Stradbroke Handicap and the Doomben Ten Thousand.
Perhaps it may work out all right in the end, but the
chances of a horse who suffered a breakdown in his breathing
apparatus returning to develop as a stayer seems more a touch
of Nat Gould than anything else. Horses who win Cups are
usually good clean-winded animals.
TTrainer Tommy Smith has kept some of the good wine until
last, or at least it looks that way, judging on Rush Bye, a
winner at Rosehill on Saturday.
Rush Bye ran away effortlessly from his opponents in the
second division of the Two-Year-Old Handicap in one of the
most attractive exhibitions of galloping seen of a two-year-old
this season.
Rush Bye is by Rush (imp.) from Melcovent, a mare by
Melfort (imp.) who already has thrown four winners, two by
Persia and one each to matings with Newtown Wonder (imp.)
and Charleval (imp.). But, because Rush (imp.), a new sire,
came to stud without any fanfare of trumpets, nobody wanted
Rush Bye, who was passed in at the sales and bought privately
from the breeders, Woodlands Stud.
From the time that Rush Bye was set over his first furlong
sprint Smith has known that this 600-guinea yearling was well
above ordinary, and he has given the youngster every chance
to develop before testing him in a race.
Rush Bye is a beautiful walker, and a smooth, effortless
galloper. How good he is remains to be seen, but his present-
day price is thousands compared with the hundreds it was when
he was a yearling.
/~'ood luck to Tulloch and his £100,358 10s. in stakes. His
veteran owner, E. A. Haley, and the racing public of
Australia will be happy now that the horse has achieved the
distinction of being the first to win £lOO,OOO in his own land.
Sailor’s Guide is the greatest stake winner among Australian-
bred winners, with £134,000, but of this approximately £60,000
was won in U.S.A. and Canada.
The English horse, Ballymoss, won £107,000, but about
£40,000 came from races in France. English Derby winner,
Tulyar, won £75,000, all of it in England. These winnings are
insignificant compared with the stake winnings of some of the
American horses, who have the opportunity of contesting any
number of races for which added money is £45,000.
By the way, in amassing his stake winnings Tulloch earned
more than £lO,OOO for his trainer, T. J. Smith, and an aggregate
of £5OOO for the jockeys who have ridden him —probably a lot
more for the jockeys because there are always some perquisites
in addition to the statutory winning percentage.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company of
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlement of claims
Directors:
ALFRED S. WHITE, Esq., Chairman; E. 0. CON'EN, Esq., T. K. MAGNET,
Esq., A. G. PARKER, Esq., DOUGLAS WADI.KV, Esq.
H. H. MOULTON, Esq,, Managing Director. B, J. LANE, Esq., Manager.
’Phone: BU 7401. (Branches in all States) 16/20 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Alpine Snowfields
are Booming
By S. W. KEOUGH
TIME is not so long past
when those who glided
over our snowy slopes by ski
and stock were an exclusive
band wealthy enough to have
made special trips to the snow
resorts of Switzerland and
Austria to learn the sport, and,
returning to pursue it on our
then extremely restricted snow-
fields, to have enjoyed quite a
tight monopoly of tenancy at
the one or two available chalets.
Today the whole alpine face
of Australia is changing dram-
atically in the most revolution-
ary advance any sport has
made in so short a time.
More progress has been
made in accommodation, in
amenities and in achieving ac-
cessibility to the snowfields
during the past five years than
in the previous 50, and private
clubs claim that this is due
almost entirely to their own
efforts and to those of private
enterprise in everything from
building chalets to installing
ski-tows and chair-lifts
They produce cogent argu-
ments to substantiate their
claim. On the N.S.W. Alps, for
instance, the Government
Tourist Bureau provides ac-
commodation in its Chalet at
Charlotte Pass for 90 patrons.
It is still its only one, though it
was first in the field decades
ago.
Private enterprise sleeps and
dines around 500 at Thredbo
alone, and its figures are leap-
ing almost every week.
T'he main snowfields of New
South Wales are along the
great escarpment running
south-east to north-west of the
Great Dividing Range under
the dominating 7300 ft peak of
Kosciusko. They run for 65
miles and average 30 miles
wide just on 2000 square
miles of snow.
A winter sport? By associ-
ating snow strictly with the
coldest season, yes. But in fact,
in the N.S.W. Alps at least,
ski-ing is now an autumn, win-
ter and summer sport. Did you
know that you can glide on
your twin hickories over a
longer period than the average
surfer does with his surf-ski?
The surfing season begins in
early October and ends at
Easter—just six months. The
first snows fall around Kos-
ciusko in late April, with ski-
ing beginning a few weeks
later; last year the snow held
good till mid-January!
Sverre Kaaten, who has
been in the forefront of devel-
opments in our snowfields, will
tell you that his native Norway
has no steep slopes to compare
with those that send the ace
skiers flashing down at express-
train speed from the 7000 ft
Ram’s Head Range above the
Thredbo Valley, for Norway’s
Alpine heights are well below
ours.
Today the Perisher and
Thredbo Valleys hold the dom-
inant postition on the N.S.W.
Alps, the former with two
hotels —the Sundeck and the
Man From Snowy River —and
Thredbo with the Mountain
Lodge. As well, there are
dozens of club-lodges and
boarding houses. Kosciusko,
Kiandra (which has the oldest
ski-club in the world, at 91,
and which this year will cele-
brate the first ski-races held
there a century ago), Smiggin
Holes, Lake Albina and Wil-
son’s Valley round out the list
of headquarters from which
the snow enthusiasts operate.
C'' hair-lifts, T-bars and rope-
tows —Perisher, incidentally,
has the world’s longest rope-
tow, half a mile—have been
slammed in by the dozen in the
last three years.
Australia’s current ski-ing
boom owes much to the in-
fluence of migrants from Scan-
dinavia and Central Europe,
and especially to those of them
working on the great Snowy
Mountains scheme and who
run their own snow sports in
quite a big way at Cabra-
murra, where the Australian
Championships will be held
this year. Another fillip has
been given the sport by the im-
portation of a team of instruc-
tors from the internationally
famous Arlberg Ski School in
Austria.
Victoria’s snowfields are
also rapidly expanding. Mt
Buller, only 125 miles from
Melbourne, is the most con-
centrated snow area in Aus-
tralia and one of the best. The
new chalet to replace the one
burnt down is due to open in
June; as well, there are about
60 lodges of private clubs (total
accommodation of aro u n d
“I can't remember your name, but I never forget
a helmet."
1000) and six lifts operate.
Falls Creek, on the Bogong
High Plains at between 5000-
6000 ft, is the next biggest, with
Hotham providing the third
snowfield suitable for all types
of ski-ing. Mt Buffalo, lower
down and with gentler falls, is
the beginners’ playground.
Safe ski-ing everywhere now
is assured by the adoption of
international color-markings of
trails: red for the top-flight
skiers, yellow for intermediate,
blue for the tyros, all of them
so placed as to keep one lot
out of the others’ hair, as far
as possible. Safety committees
of the various ski councils are
constantly improving trails.
Tf you want to appear among
the lily whites at the open-
ing of the suTing sea son
sporting a rich tan, take to the
snowfields in winter you’ll
acquire the golden tint there,
in the glow of the snow, as
quickly as you would on Bondi
on a midsummer Sunday.
There are of course strict
rules of etiquette to be fol-
lowed in the snow. To carry
your gear in a suitcase around
the snowfields is a social sole-
cism of the worst order, tanta-
mount to wearing bowyangs
with white tie and tails a
rucksack is the thing.
TJaving extracted oneself
after landing upside down
after a i um P on e must always
replace the divot’. Should a
skier coming down a precipit-
ous s l°P e ou t of control hit a
ski-tow rope with his chest and
bounce back on to his neck,
should never give expression
to IS thoughts unless lady ski-
ers are at least five yards away
from him. And it is considered
not quite the thing for a skier’s
companions, when a loud bang
indicates he has struck a sub-
merged rock on the way down,
to take bets among themselves
whether it was a leg or the
length of curved hickory he
had broken.


LETTERS
Melbourne University Communists
Sir,
As it appears to be widely
assumed that we were the
authors of the article in The
Bulletin of April 19, “Mel-
bourne University Communists
at Work,” we wish to state
that we had no part in writing
this article, and that we very
greatly regret the shift of dis-
cussion from general issues to
particular persons.
R. M. Crawford
Ruth Hoban (Crawford)
Camberwell (Vic.).
Sir,
In the discussion that pre-
ceded Professor Crawford’s
temperate and firm letter,
demands were voiced that,
actual cases be produced. It
is, of course, no always easy
to bring important but un-
pleasant facts to light, even
when they are well known to
many. So many personal and
institutional interests are
usually involved. There are so
many reasons, not necessarily
discreditable ones, for reserve,
for hesitation, for silence. It
may be that the man who
knows and is willing to speak
is bound by the confidences of
others.
It is unfortunately true that
fear plays a large part in
restraining those who should
speak out. They see the dis-
advantages the individual may
suffer who discloses the truth
out of season. It is safer to
stick to canting talk about the
evils of “conformism” and the
need to maintain “academic
values” than to incur the pains
and penalties of taking up a
genuinely unconforming posi-
tion in an unpopular cause.
Those who have made the
truth plain in this case deserve
the gratitude and support of
the academic community.
James McAuley
Sydney.
Sir,
What will the anti-anti-
Communist drumbeaters do in
the face of the Crawford letter
and the subsequent revela-
tions?
The reaction is predictable
on past performances. They
will try to minimise and to
distract attention. If this seems
impossible, they will fall silent,
allowing an interval for
oblivion to do its work, after
which they will go on talking
exactly as before.
In private, of course, the
campaign will be carried on
differently. It will become
established that the offenders
are paranoiacs or bullied by
their wives or in the pay of
Security.
MICHAEL FITZPATRICK
Neutral Bay ( N.S.W. ).
THE WARD CASE
Sir,
Professor Crawford has
stated that in his view the count
against the University of New
South Wales in the Ward case
was that the recommendation
of an academic selection com-
mittee was rejected. As far as
many people are concerned the
count against that university is
that it has carefully avoided
telling the public what really
happened in the Ward case.
Dr Hartwell, Professor of
Economic History at the time,
has alleged that Ward was ex-
cluded on the basis of a security
report. Professor Baxter, vice-
chancellor of the university,
has flatly contradicted him
according to a published state-
ment of Professor Thornton
(president of the Staff Associa-
tion of the university), and has
issued a statement which the
press interpreted as a further
refutation. (For documentary
references and details see
“Vestes,” March, 1961).
Despite intense public in
terest, both in Australia and
in Britain, the university has
ignored all requests for an in-
dependent committee of in-
quiry to ascertain the facts. In
the absence of such an inquiry
let me state briefly the main
points of evidence in Dr Hart-
well’s favor.
1, R. M. Hartwell has lodged
a statutory declaration affirm-
ing his earlier statement in
“Vestes” (Dec., 1960).
2, A. E. Alexander (Profes-
sor of Chemistry in the univer-
sity at the time of the Ward
affair) has lodged a statutory
declaration supporting the
validity of R. M. Hartwell’s
account. This also gives the
names of other professors
present at the time.
3, D. C. Rowan, Dean of the
Faculty of Commerce at the
time of the Ward affair, has
publicly supported R. M. Hart-
well’s account.
4, Not a single point of R.
M. Hartwell’s account has been
refuted by those professors
present at the time.
5, Copies of R. M. Hartwell’s
addresses to the Professorial
Board and to the Council of the
University, dealing with the
non-appointment of Ward, are
available.
6, Evidence of other cases of
exclusion, similar to the Ward
case, is available.
As far as is known Professor
Baxter has not lodged his con-
tradiction of Dr Hartwell in the
form of a statutory declaration.
Matters raised in this corres-
pondence indicate a real need
for some form of tribunal to
look into matters which affect
the standing of our universities
in the eyes of the public and the
outside world in general. (Quite
apart from the moral issues in-
volved, our universities must be
above reproach if they are to
compete for overseas staff in an
increasingly difficult market.)
A. E. ALEXANDER
University of Sydney.
PLATZ AND
BEN-GURION
Sir,
“Mugga’s” reference to me in
your issue of April 19 is based
upon a false assumption. In
February I had the honor of an
interview with the Prime Minis
ter of Israel, Mr Ben-Gurion ;
but at no time did he discuss
with me any aspect of the Eich-
mann trial, nor did he tell me
that there were Nazi associates
of Eichmann in Australia.
Further, I have never claimed
that Mr Ben-Gurion told me
these things. What is more, no
newspaper has ever reported
that I had said that Mr Ben-
Gurion had told me these
things.
As to the reference to
General Laskov, I was com-
pletely unaware that he was
coming to Australia and I have
never made any comment in
public or private about the
purpose of his visit.
ERNEST PLATZ
Melbourne.
“Mugga” replies: I am glad to
have Mr Platz’s denials. But
members of Melbourne’s Jewish
community disagree with his descrip-
tion of his behavior. Of course
no newspaper reported that Mr
Platz had made the assertions of
“Nazis in Australia”: the story was
planted. It was just coincidence that
the stories coincided with Mr Platz’s
return to Melbourne.
“OUTLOOK” ON
COLONIALISM
Sir,
“Mugga” (B. 19/4/61) finds
that “Outlook” “provides a
rather odd picture of Socialist
thought” because “in an other-
wise thoughtful editorial” we
said that “Indonesian claims
over West New Guinea
have been accepted by a good
many Socialists because
Socialists very properly have
supported the nationalist
independence movements in the
former colonial countries.”
We find it odd that “Mugga”
should omit the argument that
followed the obvious state-
ment of fact: that “inter-
national control of the whole
of New Guinea, with a prede-
termined and early date for
self - determination” is the
proper policy for Socialists.
His selective method of quota-
tion could well give readers the
impression that “Outlook”
accepted Indonesia’s claim to
West New Guinea. In fact,
we made it clear that we
regarded the Indonesian posi-
tion as colonialist. We also
made it clear that we are
opposed to all forms of
colonialism in New Guinea:
Indonesian, Dutch and Aus-
tralian.
Our editorial considered that
the kind of proposition which
Donald Horne puts forward—
for an international control
commission in West New
Guinea would be quite
unacceptable to African and
Asian countries. Australia
controls the Trust Territory of
New Guinea under U.N.
trusteeship, and is committed
to granting independence. But
we control Papua as a colony,
as Australian territory. The
Government has rejected all
suggestions that it should place
Papua under U.N. trusteeship,
and has made no unambiguous
statement on Papua’s independ-
ence. No plan for international
control in New Guinea would
be acceptable to African and
Asian countries except a plan
for such control of the whole
of New Guinea. Nor will Aus-
tralian proposals be regarded
as an “honest offer” unless we


n
n
D
1
U
n
mw
® JSIINaM w M
/a
J
Undergarments made from sciences new Thermalon Fibre bring spectacular relief!
You wear Thermalon undergarments just like normal undergarments—and by wearing
them you fight your rheumatic troubles all day long. Soothing warmth will flow through
those painful parts of the body, because Thermalon creates Tribo-Electricity, a wonderful
natural force now harnessed by science to treat rheumatism and allied complaints.
Thermalon has been clinically tested and the reports hy sufferers are truly amazing.
Mr. HJ. of Melbourne, VIC.:
"1 found o prompt improvement
in muscular pains, common at
this time of the year. My wife
borrowed one of my vests and
also appreciated the comfort and
relief."
Mr. B.M.M. of Woomera: "Since
buying the lhermalon under-
wear I honestly can say I have
received great benefits from
these garments, l am free from
aches and pains, & am free from
bronchitis & feel a new man."
Mrs. A.M.H. of Dulwich, S.A.:
"Please send another Thermalon
vest and pantee as last. I find
they have cured my trouble, but
I wish to keep on with Therma-
lon/'
This is the simplest way to fight your rheumatic pains—without medicine, ointment or
pills. Even if you’ve suffered for years, this latest scientific discovery will bring you
amazing relief. Convince yourself, send now for full details and samples, FREE, to:
THERMALON PTY. LTD., 107/30 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
A LOVELY GIFT FOR MOTHER S DAY
THE RIAM GROOM HOME MASSAGE UNII
BATTERY POWERED
Made in Switzerland and fully guaranteed. Complete
with Plastic Massage Brush for the hair. A few
minutes’ daily use definitely removes dandruff and
revitalises the hair. Rubber Massage Sponge for the
face. Wonderful for eliminating facial blemishes and
toning up the skin. Rubber Massage Brush for the
body. Regular body massage removes surplus fatty
tissue and tones up the muscles.
Give a Riam Groom for Mother’s Day
PRICE ONLY
99/6
Complete with
Batteries
POST FREE
eUTOUT— P O S T N O W
QUALITY APPLIANCES,
412 Hardy’s Chambers,
I)e Mestre Place, Sydney.
Please post at once 11l AM
GROOM. Cheque/postal notes/money
order enclosed for £ : :
NAME
ADDRESS
Please print name and address in block letters.
Money refunded if returned in 7 days.
jfhe famous Kiam Groom
comes complete with self
contained batteries safe,
simple “on” “off” switch.
Made in Switzerland, home
of precision instruments,
fully guaranteed against
faulty workmanship.
are prepared to redefine the
status of Papua and set a
definite early date for the inde-
pendence both of Papua and
of the Trust Territory.
HELEN G. PALMER
Editor, “Outlook”
Sydney.
GOOD WINE NEEDS
NO BUSH
Sir,
I feel certain that everybody
with an open mind and sense of
humor must have enjoyed the
feature by “A Bush
Wine Tasting” (B. 12/4/61).
He must be either one of the
general managers of our lead-
ing breweries or a substantial
shareholder, or just somebody
who has a delicious sense of
humor blended with satire. The
president of the Wine and
Brandy Association is probably
recovering from a seizure.
Probably the true answer to
“W.H.” is that “good wine
needs no bush.”
DOUGLAS LAMB
Sydney.
OMISSIONS
Sir,
Your April 5 article on “Sell-
ing Art” omitted to mention
that the Argus Gallery, 270
Latrobe Street, Melbourne, can
have two simultaneous exhibi-
tions or very large one-man
exhibitions (it cost £lB,OOO to
build last year and is £34 15s. a
fortnight to hire, plus manage-
ment fees) and that Mrs Violet
Dulieu’s South Yarra Gallery,
10 William Street, South Yarra
(by invitation only), is a very
tastefully appointed gallery of
two rooms in a house more
than 100 years old.
RONALD GREENAWAY
Melbourne.
POETRY AND ALL
THAT JAZZ
Sir,
It is not unexpected that the
introduction of a new art-form
should meet with censorious
criticism. Rather than encour-
agement be given to enterprise,
it is expected that such a
Phenomenon as poetry and jazz
he ill-perceived. In the words
°f one of the Californian in-
novators of poetry and jazz:
No new art form in the last
fO years has been subjected to
so much journalistic distortion
as poetry and jazz."
Adrian Rawlins should be
thanked for his work in estab-
hshing this new art form in
Australia. That it should be
by Mrs Drake-
hrockman is not surprising.
Poetry and jazz arose out of
the need for poetry to reach
a wider audience. As the
° n ginator of poetry and jazz,
kenneth Rexroth, pointed out,


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£A363,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
start the day right!
m
fA
L.«ivV»o
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
Divorce Notice
TO JOHN MeARTHUR formerly of 11
Mansion Point Road Grays Point New
South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that
ELLIS JAMES McCARTY has com-
menced proceedings against his wile
RITA MEG McCARTY in the Supreme
Court of Western Australia for Divorce
on the ground of her adultery with you.
J F you wesirde to defend such proceed-
ings you must tile your defence in the
Centra] Office of the Supreme Court
at Perth within FORTY clear days from
the date of this publication In de-
fault of your so doing the cause may
proceed and the Court will pronounce
Judgment and make a decree against
you in your absence.—DATED this 27th
day of March, 1961.—G. .J. BOYLSO.V,
Registrar.
FRED CURRAN & FERRTER, Forrest
Place, Perth, W.A., Solicitors for the
Plaintiff-
after the introduction of print-
ing “poetry was cornered by
the intellectuals and robbed of
its popular appeal.”
Poetry and jazz stresses a
further point: the close asso-
ciation of poetry and music,
steadily in decline since the
Restoration.
It is significant that in the
20th century poetry should be
associated with jazz. Modern
poetry and jazz had their
beginnings at exactly the same
time. The combination of
poetry and jazz is something
entirely different and more diffi-
cult than either of these arts
taken separately. The poetry
reader is not the equivalent of
a band vocalist, nor are the
musicians the equivalent of s
harmonising choir behind a
popular singer. Poetry and
jazz is an entirely new art, and
should be appreciated as such.
Those who have seen Adrian
Rawlins's “Poetry and Jazz,
and that includes a packed
house at the 15th Australian
Jazz Convention, could not fail
to see an awakening interest in
the concept poetry, and, per-
haps, in jazz.
GEOFFREY THOMS
Dulwich Hill {N.S.W.).
KERENSKY
Sir,
No doubt the article by
Peter Hastings on Kerensky
(B. 5/4/61) was based on fact,
but his final sentence, that
Kerensky “has lived since 1917
in terror of assassination,”
seems readily denied by the
references to Kerensky in nis
article and the man’s pattern
of life.
One would assume that a
regime which is accused of
plotting the downfall of the
Western world would be able
to execute an assassination
threat against an old man pro-
tected solely by “a young girl
with a dog on a lead.”
Surely if there has ever been
any threat by the Soviet Gov-
ernment to assassinate Keren-
sky they have had ample oppor-
tunity to carry it out. For not
only has he acted without due
caution in New York, but in
later years has been resident on
the campus of Stanford Univer-
sity, California. Here he is a
common sight walking through
the pleasant hills with little
other protection than his walk-
ing stick.
I feel that Peter Hastings
has overworked his analysis to
fit into the drama of inter-
national politics.
Kerensky’s outburst is typical
of the impetuous nature of the
man and is one of which no
doubt everybody who has come
in contact with him in latter
years has felt the brunt.
Indeed a slightly more objec-
tive editorial policy by the new
owners of The Bulletin may
have saved us from another
example of the irrespon-
sible journalism for which your
newspaper has become renowed
over the years.
FRANK STEVENS
Kirribilli {N.S.W.).
COMPOSITE ERROR
Sir,
1 have read with great interest
your printing of Mr H. M.
Green’s account of his forth-
coming book on Australian
literature (B. 12/4/61) in which
I note that a mysterious Dr D.
J. Butlin, I'rofessor of Econo-
mics, Australian National Uni-
versity, is mentioned.
One of the several crosses I
have to bear is “5.1.8.,” who
currently reviews books in the
“Sydney Morning Herald” and
makes fascinating contributions
to knowledge on the subject of
Australian slang. There are
two “S.J.B.s” known to me who
might well express the views
which the “5.J.8.” who con-
tributes to the “Herald” does in
fact express. lam only one of
these.
Your sub-editor, however,
has allowed of movement to the
third dimension in which Mr
Green is prompted to thank a
composite individual to whom
is attributed my degree, my
wife's initials, my brother’s
address, our joint surname, and
an academic position which
must be allocated to one of my
three friends, Professor Arndt,
Professor Cameron or Profes-
sor Swan.
S. J. BUTLIN
University of Sydney.
CHURCHWARD
CHALLENGES
Sir,
If Mr Stargardt in his re-
reading of “The Myth of Soviet
Imperialism” hasn’t yet dis-
covered my evaluation of the
Soviet-German Pact of August,
1939, I must find it for him!
It is set out briefly but clearly
enough on page 39.
If Mr Stargardt doubts my
capacity to discuss Soviet
politics with reasonable objec-
tivity I am prepared to debate
him on any aspect of Soviet
domestic or foreign politics
before an academic audience
either at the University of Mel-
bourne or at the Royal Mel-
bourne Institute of Technology.
L.G. CHURCHWARD
Mitcham {Vic.).


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
Rice in the Northern Territory
By JAS. MACANSH
Recently The Bulletin has
published some thoughtful
artides dealing with closer
settlement in Northern Aus-
tralia; but to me it seems that
none of the writers has really
got to the bottom of the matter.
8 Opening up the Channel
Country, for example, is a
job that should have been done
half-a-century ago and surely
can't be put off much longer ;
but it is not the solution to
populating the North.
Flood-control, good roads,
and pasture improvement to-
gether might treble the output
ot beef from the cattle coun-
try; but, if the number of
tomans there were also trebled
in consequence, the area
would be very sparsely peopled
still.
We don’t want just a few
thousand more people up there
-we want a few millions. We
jcan’t get them by grazing more
'livestock, but we can do so
jhy using our Northward-
lowing rivers and river flats
to grow rice.
Rice is the only farm-crop
that we can grow in a big way
on our hot, flooded plains and
he sure of selling. That is
why rice-growing offers our
best means of populating the
North quickly and at the same
j time wiping out the stigma of
holding millions of acres of
form-land idle in a hungry
world.
No Bulletin contributor so
| ar appears to have grasped
fdly either the urgency of our
toed to occupy our Northern
; Provinces effectively or the
sc °pe of our opportunities
t there among them the oppor-
to show wavering nations
that big things can be done as
efficiently under democratic
ca Pitalism as in any Commu-
"lst State. We might be able
10 Potter about with other
Cr °Ps and plant a few thousand
? c ‘ es here and there as mar-
e(s developed and —if we were
eft in peaceful possession—
i e another century or so
,° fill in the map in our old
a Pnazard way ; but we need
radically different approach
to rice. We must think in
millions—millions of acres,
millions of people, millions of
tons of grain ; but, as to time,
in years, not in centuries.
A Communist Government
would tackle the job in a series
of “five year plans,” and there
is nothing but inertia to pre-
vent our doing the same thing.
We shall have to sell our
rice on the world market ; and
that means competition with
Asian cheap labor —the labor
of women and children and
cattle. That competition can
be met successfully only by
mechanisation and comprehen-
sive, centralised planning, so
it must be grand-scale or noth-
ing with our rice.
On that assumption, here are
some general ideas as to ways
and means.
'T'he first step is to find out
how much rice-land we
have, and where it is. Apart
from the reports of commis-
sions, etc., sufficient data to
give us a rough idea is prob-
ably available in Departmental
files, from which an intelligent
clerk could dig it out in, say,
six months. So much delving
should reveal at least four or
five potentially suitable areas.
If so, the next step is to de-
cide where to start. That can
only be done after a fairly de-
tailed survey of the most pro-
mising river systems and the
decision must be made by tech-
nically competent men, not by
politicians. Also it is essen-
tial that we concentrate on one
area at a time, and develop it
fully before beginning work on
the next.
The development of any one
river-basin will involve the
damming of the main or tri-
butary rivers, and the provi-
sion of transport and other
facilities. Airports, roads, and
a seaport will be necessary ;
and locking and canalisation of
river channels must be con-
sidered as part of the plan.
That would permit the use of
barges and bring cheap water
transport right in among the
farms. On the coast, the barges
would be off loaded on to ships
provided by our customers,
whoever they might be. Long
road-hauls to Darwin or other
existing seaports will be eco-
nomically impracticable, and
we don’t want any more white-
elephant railways. We want
short hauls on good roads to
the nearest water.
Most of the settlers will prob-
ably have little or no capital
of their own, so it will be
necessary to provide ready-
made farms, complete with
machinery and homes, ready
for family occupation and pre-
pared for sowing.
We can’t provide all those
capital works in several dis-
tricts simultaneously, to serve
a few farms here and there.
Once a region is selected and
the work begun, all the man-
power, plant, and know-how
available in the country should
be mustered to the task of
bringing under the plough in
the shortest possible time every
arable acre in the chosen
valley. The people who put
through the Snowy River
scheme could handle it.
Because of the strategic im-
portance of settling the North
quickly and of contributing our
quota towards feeding the
world's growing population the
matter is urgent; and the need
for haste may make it imprac-
ticable to keep the early stages
of development on a strictly
business footing ; but we must
get back to that basis as the
work goes on. Both capital
and administrative costs must
be kept down. Every pound
wasted will eventually become
an unnecessary addition to the
debt which either the farmers
or the taxpayers sooner or
later will have to pay. The
farmers cannot be expected to
carry inflated overhead charges
and neither should the public.
It is imperative that neither
the project generally nor any
part of it should be loaded with
the kind of incubus that broke
the back of the Peak Downs
grain-sorghum undertaking.
T'he task is primarily the
responsibility of the Federal
Government. Because of the
nature of the issues involved,
and the necessity of co-ordina-
tion all the way, it is a national
concern both geographical
spread and amount of money
required to accomplish any-
thing worthwhile place it be-
yond the capacity of the States
anyway. Settlement of the
North should —in fact must —
be conceived as a national
undertaking and be planned
and carried through by the
best brains Australia can pro-
vide, backed by the whole re-
sources of the country. Other
development schemes may have
to await their turn. Public sup-
port can be secured by ex-
plaining in the first place what
is to be done and why, and
by intelligently-directed fol-
low-up publicity from time to
time.
The broad outline of a grand
plan having been decided upon
and a starting-point in time
and place fixed, the whole pro-
ject must be placed firmly
“You don't trust anyone, do you, Wilson ?”


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX (Vice-Chairman),
R. J. VICARS, A. MURRAY JONES, HUGH DIXSON,
D. A. T. DICKINS, K. B. MYERS, A. E. STEPHEN
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of Every Description
J. O. LEWIS. General Manager.
above party politics and State
jealousy. Detailed planning
and execution should be turned
over to a Board of practical
men. accustomed to paying
for their own mistakes. They
should have security in office
and freedom from politicians’
interference and Public Ser-
vice meddling and muddling.
Some members could be co-
opted from abroad—men with
high-level experience in plan-
ning and administration in irri-
gation areas. The Tennessee
Valley Authority comes to
mind, and past and current
undertakings in the Punjab.
o u ui •
Such problems as the size
and tenure of the farms are
highly controversial; but again
politics must be pushed out
of the picture. The sort of
people we need in the North
won't be attracted by 40-acre
cocky conditions; and we are
not concerned so much with
the number of people we can
crowd onto a square mile as
with the quantity of farm-stuff
we can take off it. Farmers
and trades people must be per-
mitted to prosper, and wage-
and salary-earners be given
first-class working and living
conditions—not bribed to exist
like coolies for a year or two
and left to return, browned-off,
to the South ; so there may be
a gap between a profitable sel-
ling price and what Asian
workers will, for some years to
come, be able to pay.
However, it must be realised
that payment will, in the long
run, necessarily be made in
kind ; so a possible solution of
that difficulty (if it arises)
might be to collect customs
duty on imports from Asia and
use the proceeds to pay an
export bounty on rice. The
steady rise in living standards
among the customers for which
we hope should ultimately
close the gap.
* r
Tlearing in mind the neces-
** sity to accept payment in
goods, it is apparent that rice
exports might not have any
great direct influence on our
overseas exchange position,
but the payments should at
least balance ; and the income
from any new exporting indus-
try would be, in a sense,
surplus income. To spend it
on imported goods not at
present manufactured locally
would improve our own living
standard without harm to any-
body. The indirect boost to
our economy must be tre-
mendous.
Much of the capital needed
may come from overseas. If
the end purpose of providing
money is to feed people, where
the food is grown is of
secondary importance ; and if
American (or other) financiers
are to build dams to grow it,
conceivably it could suit them
better to build in Australia
than in, say, Burma or the
Sudan.
A worse bottle-neck than
finance is likely to be scarcity
of experienced farm-managers ;
but in our Riverina many
established farmers must have
sons who could be induced to
migrate. There will be others
in the U.S.A. and, the way
events are shaping in Africa,
we may attract from there an
influx of first-class citizens
accustomed to living and farm-
ing in a hot climate.
After a few years men who
will have gained local experi-
ence as farm - laborers or
jackeroos will become avail-
able. Few will have capital,
They will need those ready-
made farms, with low rents and
easy-payment conditions for
plant and improvements.
Having roughed-out my
article to this point, I broke
off for afternoon-tea. By one
of those improbable coinci-
dences that spoil so much
fiction, someone had tuned-in
the TV to “Australian Walk-
about,” and for a few minutes
I watched Charles Chauvel’s
cameramen “shooting” buffalo
somewhere in the Territory,
Mobs of wild buffalo grazing
on black river flats, thousands
of acres, mile after mile, still
muddy months after the rains,
I forgot the buffalo-hunt. I
saw roads running straight and
level to the horizon between
great fields of grain. Roads
and homesteads, schools and
villages . . .
A pipe-dream? What of it?
Columbus had his dream, and
space-travel was a fantasy 20
years ago. And what choice
have we, but to make that pipe-
dream come true? To sup-
pose that we will be left indefi-
nitely in possession of so much
idle farm-land is childish wish-
ful thinking. If we don't till
that soil, others will, and soon,
Do we want to see brown
children tending tamed
buffaloes in Australian paddy-
fields?
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
Queensland should have patchy rain in May, although
good falls are likely along the south coast, about the Maranoa
and Warrego, and in far-south-western districts. Rainfall
will probably be moderate on the Darling Downs, but looks
like being light elsewhere. During June there should be
good rains in the s.-e. quarter of the State, although rainfall
will then probably be poor until September.
N.S.W. should have moderate to good general rains in
May, with best falls on the Central Tablelands, and in
central-western and south-western districts. Rainfall is
likely to become patchy in June, apart from moderate falls
along the coast, on the tablelands and in south-western
districts. Light to moderate rains are likely in the second
half of the year.
Victoria should have general rains in May, with heaviest
falls along the east coast and in east-central and north-
eastern districts. Moderate rain is likely in June and should
continue until October.
The agricultural areas and west coast of South Australia
should have good rains in May, with moderate falls extending
into the interior. There should be moderate rain, mainly
below normal, in the agricultural areas during June, though
falls may be light in the interior. Well distributed rains
should continue in the interior until October.
In Western Australia there are likely to be good rains
above average in the Kimberleys, on part of the Gascoyne,
and along the s.-w. coast during May. Moderate rain,
mainly below- normal, is likely in the agricultural areas,
though falls wiil probably be light elsewhere.
There should be good follow-on rains in Tasmania.
LENNOX WALKER.
Down to Earth
Tnstallation of Roger Nott
as Administrator seems to
have begun a new chapter in
development of the Northern
Territory. With new ideas, a
practical vision of the Terri-
tory’s economic importance
and determination to do some-
thing about it. Mr Nott made
a considerable impression by
his forthright inaugural address
on the Territory's needs in
agriculture and meat produc-
tion.
One of the current problems
in the N.T. is rice. The totter-
ing Humpty Doo project, in
which some £2 million has
been sunk since it was launched
six years ago, has left Darwin
lamenting. In his speech Mr
Nott expressed optimism for
the future of rice-growing and
his determination to study and
revive the industry on a co-
operative basis instead of as a
real-estate enterprise. If rice
could be grown successfully in
the Murrumbidgee Irrigation
Area, claimed Mr Nott, it
could be grown just as well in
the Territory.
As regards cattle, he said,
the Territory should be the
beef farm for Australia and
other countries. He spoke so
confidently that his audience
felt they could take new heart.
According to a correspondent
in Darwin, they seemed pre-
pared to accept his invitation
to bring fresh prosperity to the
Territory, so that, with wise in-
vestment and settlement by the
right type of people, Australia's
great empty North might lose
the stigma of being a forgotten
province dominated by far-
distant Canberra.
Among the benefits of the
Snowy scheme, according
to members of the Murray-
Murrumbidgee Development
Committee, are positive flood
mitigation and regeneration of
catchments. At its eleventh
annual inspection of the
scheme, the committee-
through its components, the
Murray Valley Development
League and the Murray Valley
Water Users’ Association, it
represents haif-a-million people
on the western side of the
mountains —found that the
Tantangara Dam on the Mur-
rumbidgee and the Tooma
Dam on the Tooma River both
operate as flood safeguards.
Tantangara Dam was able to
store last winter’s heavy
and about a quarter-milli oll
acre-feet of water was thus
kept away from the lower
Murrumbidgee and Gundagah
so that Wagga was saved from
a serious flood threat. Toonw
Dam, now completed, will a' so
be available for flood deten-
tion.
In a telegram sent 10


This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
(A member of Commercial Union Australia Group)
ESTABLISHED m 2.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS' AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building-, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
F. S. WATSON. Manager.
Rational Development Minister
Spooner, the committee com-
mended the Snowy Mountains
Authority, the C.5.1.R.0. and
the N.S.W. Soil Conservation
Service on practical achieve-
ments in conservation, quoting
examples of improved state of
the higher catchments and
restoration of the Eucumbene
borrow-pit areas. The tele-
gram contained a request that
the contractors’ skilled teams
should not be dispersed,
because the whole accumulated
knowledge and skills of the
Authority should be preserved
for use throughout Australia.
But there was also a note of
concern because no new con-
tracts had been let and no
tenders had been called on the
Murray diversion projects and
the Eucumbene Island Bend
interconnection.
Speaking at a combined
meeting of the Australian
Institute of Agricultural
Science and the Australian
Agricultural Economic Society
in Canberra lately. Sir John
Crawford, who is Professor of
Economics at the Australian
National University and Direc-
tor of the Research School of
Pacific Studies, stated that
more research and extension-
services, and some assurance
about farm-income are essen-
tial if agricultural production
is to assist in meeting our
adverse balance-of-payments
over the next few years.
Discussing the propositions
that agricultural exports must
be sustained and expanded, Sir
John outlined various balance-
of-payment positions over the
next five years, assuming
different bases for rate of
growth of imports, exports, net
invisibles, and capital inflow.
Should the situation become
tough, he said, there would be
a question of whether farmers
should receive special credit
assistance for increased invest-
ment to increase their produc-
tion, or whether measures like
fertiliser-subsidies should be
introduced. The decision to
increase production, he pointed
nut, rests squarely with the
individual farmer and Govern-
ment policy should be based
°n this fact, providing aids
through research, extension
and credit.
“It’s no use exhorting
farmers to grow more,” Sir
J °hn said. “But we can always
exhort and aid them to invest
| or more profitable produc-
tion.” He pointed out that if
? Ur exports should fail to
balance the payments, it made
B°od sense to develop other
Sports—particularly steel pro-
ducts, processed minerals and
import-savers which would
include some agricultural
crops. He commended open-
ing of new markets, like those
in many countries, for meat
and the wool market in Japan.
In spite of increased indus-
trialisation in Europe, he said,
there was some doubt of an
expanding market there for
our agricultural products,
owing to protectionist policies
and increased efficiency in
European home production.
In this situation our external
policy should be to compete as
hard as we can in any markets
open to us —to use promo-
tion, reach understanding
about U.S. surplus disposals,
and even to consider retalia-
tion where G.A.T.T. bargains
were too one-sided.
At a field day held recently
at Brian Pastures pasture-
research station, near Gayn-
dah, about 240 miles north-
west of Brisbane, over 500
graziers were shown how use
of better pasture plants could
treble beef production to the
acre. Brian Pastures station,
established by the Australian
Meat Board, is operated by the
Queensland Department of
Agriculture and Stock with the
aim of investigating methods
of increasing beef production
through improved feeding and
cattle husbandry. The main
project in widescale pastoral
research there is study of
promising strains of grasses,
legumes and browse-plants to
replace poorer-quality native
pastures which at present pro-
vide most of the feed in beef-
producing regions of northern
Australia. Other investigations
at the station include prob-
lems of establishing improved
pastures, fertiliser trials, con-
trol of unwanted timber, treat-
ment of eye-cancer in cattle
and study of the effects of sex
hormones of beef production.
T>Y means of very small radio
transmitters which broad-
cast electrical impulses from
the hearts of experimental
animals, doctors at the State
University of New York’s
down-State medical centre
are learning more about
the functions of the heart.
These wafer-thin rectangular
radios are placed under each
animal’s skin with wires lead-
ing to minute electrodes
inserted in its heart. Natural
electronic impulses which syn-
chronise the heart’s pumping
action are picked up and
relayed to the doctors by the
transmitters.
R.G.


ROCK Y THE RIG
XAVIER HERBERT
A racing story of the Gulf
country where the stakes
are black and white, by
the author of "Capricornia "
For those who don’t know horses, a rig is a horse that has
been improperly gelded. It is the nature of such horses
to be fractious, possessed as they are of the stallion's
wilfulness, while having had shocked out of them that
attachment to mankind which is part of equine nature and the
secret of man's ability to subject the species.
Such a horse was the roan entered that year for the
Katherine River Cup under the name of Rocky. Everybody
who knew anything much about him called him Rocky the
Rig.
It was through his intractability that Rocky the Rig got
that first name of his. It came to him out of a bitter remark
made by the horse-breaker at Larrapunya Station who was
the first to try the futility of teaching him that man was his
master: “That horse ain’t normal flesh and blood. He’s made
o’ rock. I doubt if you could put a bullet in him.”
On the stations, where sentiment about animals is sub-
ordinate to economics, a bullet is the usual penalty for the
beast that refuses to co-operate. The attempt to exact the
penalty in the case of Rocky the Rig was made so often that
it came to be believed that he bore a charmed life.
He certainly strained his chances of survival. Unlike
most outlaw horses, he did not shun men, his enemies, but
continually provoked their enmity by intruding on homesteads
and mustering camps, not only to stir up rebellion amongst
his more docile brethren and lead them away, through the gates
he had opened and the fences he had broken, to a spell of
freedom in the wilderness, but to burgle their food-stores.
He acquired his taste for human provender from his
mother, a pack-mare, with whom, as a foal, he used to hang
about the homestead and stock-camps of Larrapunya. As a
foal he was a pretty thing, with his golden-glowing red-blue
hide and auburn brush of tail and mane, and as such was a
great pet.
Tt was in this happy state that he became addicted to that
•*- passion of his for fermented foodstuffs and beverages which
eventually compelled him to make a truce with men. It began
with his eating the “sponge'’ of bread made on the stations
out of a strong fermentative mixture of hops and boiled
potato.
Soon he was burgling kitchens and stock-camp store-tents
for the bottled ferment itself. It was said that he had been
seen staggering drunk from gorging on over-ripe mangoes.
But the things they said about Rocky the Rig!
He was credited with ability to open any gate and even
to turn door-handles. Whatever the truth of that, he was once
found jammed between two trees with a double gate hanging
round his neck that he had lifted from its hinges five miles away.
Those who found him on that occasion might easily have put
to the test the idea that he was bullet-proof. They refrained
because he appeared to be at his last gasp already. The moment
they released him he was up and off.
Curiously, no one who had early dealings with Rocky
ever thought of him as likely to make a racehorse. This was
despite that fine turn of speed which probably had more to
do than anything with the prolongation of his existence as an
outlaw, as well as the fact that his sire, Black Bruce, the
imported Larrapunya stud, was of racing stock.
But then, a horse’s prowess as a racer is judged only with
someone on his back. No one had ever stayed on Rocky’s
back long enough to give thought to anything but the problem
of staying there or of getting off unharmed. No one, that is,
till he fell in with humans of his own unconforming kind,
those scallywags of the halfcaste Roreys.
'T'he Roreys lived on the outskirts of the old mining township
of Golden Gully. As a colored family, the outskirts was
their proper place. However, being thus located actually
redounded to their great advantage. For as the town shrunk
in size with passing of prosperity, they came to be left in sole
occupation of the best bit of land in the district.
Thanks to the sense of responsibility for them of him to
whom they owed their white blood, the late Ignatius Rorey,
eventually that land became theirs by legal title. Many
attempts had been made to dispossess them, with the aim of
ridding the district of what were generally considered a mob
of pests. They would not budge.
Old Rorey had taught them, amongst much else that gave
them distinction, that their future depended on their sticking
together as a clan. Most likely without the old man's advice
they would have stuck to the place just as stubbornly, because
their aboriginal instincts demanded a tribe and tribal territory.
Their family was their tribe, and “Roreyville,” as most people
called the place, was their beloved stamping-ground.
The way old Rorey reared his family to consider them-
selves as good as anyone and better than most was certain
to lead to trouble in those parts. While he lived he could stave
it off, with his restraining influence on his progeny and his
standing in the white community. By the time he passed away
the problem had quadrupled with the addition of another
generation to the clan.
After the old man died, the family became virtual outlaws.
Several of the second generation became outlaws in fact.
Practically all of the grown males, and not a few of the females,
fell foul of the law eventually. Disorderly conduct was their
commonest offence, meaning to say more or less violent
disputation with people who presumed to be their betters.


It was while away from home
that they behaved worst, at any
rate in respect of violence. At
home they mostly indulged
their propensity for theft.
Thieving was an essential part
of the economics of Rorey-
ville in latter days. It was im-
possible to maintain such a
mob as was usually there on
the produce of so small a
property. Anyway, those of
the district who had super-
abundance in the way of goats
and fowls and pigs, of water-
melons, sweet potatoes, paw-
paws, should have looked after
their property better than they
did.
As a lawful occupation they
did a bit of gold-mining. How-
ever, they sold most of the gold
they won to illicit buyers. They
were also supposed to be law-
fully occupied as graziers. In
that pursuit their nearest neigh-
bor, Larrapunya Station, bore
most of the brunt of their
preference for operating out-
side the law.
Not far from Golden Guily
was a region of rough ranges,
part of the Larrapunya run, in
which stock that eluded the
seasonal mustering took refuge.
As it was just about impossible
to ride in the region and, any-
way, the cattle must come out
when the water failed, Larra-
punya stockmen mostly did
not bother about the place.
Not so the Roreys. They
would go in after the scrubbers
on foot and work them like a
pack of dingoes, even to howl-
ing so as to get cows to plant
their clean-skin calves, and
would bring out everything
without a brand, carrying what
was too young to walk and
putting it on goat's milk when
they got it home.
TT was while out on such ex-
. cursions that the Roreys
first became acquainted with
Rocky the Rig.
Rocky also made use of the
ranges in his defiance of
humanity: and with that con-
siderable horse-sense of his he
nhght have formed the im-
pression that the Roreys were
different from those he knew
°f their kind, since at least they
hid not harass him. Even if
Rocky failed to sense the differ-
ence then, he must have got it
later on, when in the course of
his wanderings he found the
dan at home and experienced
iheir unusual forbearance with
dumb animals.
fsuch forbearance is aborigi-
nal. Roreyville was like a
lackfellows’ camp with its
Pack of dogs and cats of all
! ort ? and conditions. The
armly would have no more
re amt of culling than they
v °uld have of eliminating
Wl2 ened little old black Grand-
ma Ninyul or any other of the
old or sick of their own exces-
sive numbers. About the place
were crippled pee-wees and
crows and a kite and an aged
emu, and also a huge dropsical
pig and a badly foundered
mare.
That mare, called Lame Lass
by the Roreys, bore the brand
of Larrapunya Station. She
had crippled herself irreparab-y
in a fall into a railway cattle-
grid during trucking operations
at Golden Gully siding. Be-
cause the extent of her injury
had not been realised at first
she had been left behind to
recover. At last, starving
through inability to get about,
she somehow made her pain-
ful way to Roreyville, where
she was at once admitted.
When eventually the Larra-
punya people came looking for
her and saw her condition they
wanted to shoot her. To the
Roreys that would be equiva-
lent to murder. In the abori-
ginal way, they could kill with-
out qualm to eat, or even, with
some concession to the other
side of their inheritance, to
sell: but any other kind of
killing to them was wanton.
They pleaded for Lame Lass's
life on the ground that she
might recover, and so were left
with her.
Rocky the Rig, always one
for the female of his species,
soon found Lame Lass, and in
doing so learned more of the
strange forbearance of this odd
group of humans, the Roreys.
His interest in other people's
mares was elsewhere treated
like his assaults on their food-
stores. The Roreys even had
the delicacy to withdraw when
they perceived that, being un-
able to lead Lame Lass away,
he was nervous in courting her
there in the home-paddock with
them about. He did not have
to burgle their food - store, be-
cause he found he could feed
without danger along with
Lame Lass and the old goats
and the pig and the emu.
If nothing else about these
people drew Rocky to them it
would be this generous feed-
ing. Not only was it largely the
human food he loved, but often
included the beery stuff he was
mad about. The Roreys were
great makers and drinkers of
home-brew beer. They had to
be, in order to feel that they
were as good as others, because
most of them, by reason of bad
behavior, were debarred as
aboriginal persons from con-
sumption of alcohol.
It was through this happy
association of Rocky with
Lame Lass that the fact of his
being an “entire,” which is to
say a stallion, was discovered.
Lame Lass bore a foal that
could not have been other than
his.
This proof was very neces-
sary for overcoming the pre-
judice against Rocky that would
have prevented his eventual re-
habilitation as a worthy asso-
ciate of humankind. Such a
creature, unable to be a slave
to men, could associate with
them only as a power in his
own right, as a champion ; that
is, as a racehorse. But for the
proof of his entirety he surely
would have been debarred from
entry for that test of the cham-
pion horses of the North, the
classic race, the Katherine
River Cup. The Racing Com-
mittee began by rejecting his
nomination on the ground that,
as a rig, he was what their rules
declared to be “an animal of
objectionable nature.”
Doy Kingaroy’s involvement
in the affairs of Rocky and
the Roreys began with a visit
to Roreyville that he made at
the request of the police officer
stationed at Golden Gully.
The policeman was new to
the district, but not to the
notorious Roreys. He had pre-
viously called at Roreyville in
the course of investigating the
alleged theft of a bale of lucerne
hay from a railway wagon,
which bale had been in process
of consignment to Larrapunya
to feed the station's racehorses.
If indeed the Roreys stole the
lucerne, it might have been with
the excuse that they were feed-
ing two of the Larrapunya
horses. Roy Kingaroy was
manager of Larrapunya.
Anyway, the policeman
found no trace of it. But he
did see the two horses and their
brands and reckoned he had a
case of “illegally working
stock.” He would have taken
the horses along as Exhibit A
had he been able. As it was,
he arrested the five male and
three female Roreys who gave
him the most cheek, then got
on the phone to Roy Kingaroy.
If the telephone line out to
Larrapunya hadn't been so bad
that day, Kingaroy might have
understood how matters were
and would have told the officer
to release his prisoners, much
as he would be pleased at that
time to know that any of the
Rorey clan were under res-
traint. Instead, he came in to
Golden Gully next day.
The moment Kingaroy clap-
ped eyes on Rocky he shouted,
“Here, I want that horse shot!”
That supposed charm still
worked for Rocky. The police-
man had not brought a gun,
and the Roreys refused to pro-
duce one.
The Roreys argued, “What
you want ’o shoot a horse for?”
“That horse is a public pest!”
“Man can’t shoot horse . . .
horse like mate to man.”
“That horse is no mate to
any man. He’s a rogue, he’s a
no-good nuisance. 1 want him
shot, 1 tell you.”
Barney Rorey yelled, “Well,
you can’t shoot him here. This
our property.”
The policeman roared,
“Don’t be cheeky!”
“Who bein’ cheeky, Copper?”
“That'll do ... or I'll run
you in! ”
“You have a go, mug!”
L d Hookey Rorey, the
eldest, and always the
peacemaker, got in between
them, and having quietened
them somewhat, asked of King-
aroy, “S'pone you don't want
that horse, Mister .. . what
'bout you sell ‘im me-feller,
eh?”
“Sell him? I'll sell you his
hide for two bob after I’ve put
a bullet in it!”
“Come on, what about sellin’
’im?”
“And have him running off
my horses and driving my
camp-cooks mad and can’t do
anything about it because he
doesn’t belong to me any more?
Not flaming likely! ”
“We won’t let him give you
no trouble, Boss.”
“How you going to stop that
rogue doing anything he
wants?”
“Aw . . . we ll break him in
sometime.”
“You'll never break that
jigger in so long as your stern
hangs downwards!”
Young Marty Rorey,
Hookey's son, and the one to
whom Rocky had taken most,
said, “We’ll break him all right,
Mister.”
Kingaroy, getting tired of
arguing with this argumenta-
tive mob, turned from them,
growling: “Anyone who can
break that four-legged hunk of
rock is on a hundred quid!”
Marty cried, “I'll take you,
Mister!”
Kingaroy turned and eyed
him.
Marty added, “If I break
him, I want 'o keep him, too.”
Kingaroy snapped, “Listen,
boy, if you can break that cow,
I'll not only give you the hun-
dred and the horse and a
brand-new saddle to put on
him, but I’ll see to it you get
all the Larrapunya horse-break-
ing for good!”
The ring of shiny black eyes
in copper-brown faces staring
at Kingaroy shifted their gaze
to Marty, who swallowed, then
said somewhat huskily, “Okay,
Mister ... I break him all
right.”
Kingaroy stared at him, and
after a moment said: “I’ll give
you just a week to do it. The


man who can’t master a horse
in a week will never master
that horse. Fair enough?”
Marty nodded.
Kingaroy went on: “I'll be
back next Tuesday, and I'll
bring the police-officer with me
to shoot him for the public
pest he is . . . unless you can
prove you’ve broken him by
riding him three times round
this paddock of yours and out
that gate without him pelting
you. O.K. I’ll be seeing you!”
Tloy Kingaroy was not really
a hard man. He only acted
the big boss, the squatter. But
had he been less concerned with
striking a pose that day at
Roreyville, he would probably
have learnt from the Roreys
themselves that the breaking-in
of Rocky was already well
enough advanced to make his
wager sound like a give-away
to them, and hence he would
not have been so rash.
Marty had not mastered
Rocky, nor had tried to do so,
but in something like a week
had won his trust to the degree
of being allowed to ride him
round the home-paddock bare-
back and without a bridle. It
was now only a matter of
getting Rocky to accept the
saddle and bridle as conveni-
ences in the co-operation be-
tween his friend the rider and
himself, rather than as the
bonds of enslavement as which
apparently he had come to
regard them.
But Rocky might have under-
stood the wager himself, the
way he behaved during that
crucial week. To be sure, the
first two saddles attached to
him he went off with, over the
fences and away, and removed
them in his own style with the
help of a couple of trees. Even
after accepting saddle and
bridle and rider, he was as
likely as not suddenly to take
it into his head that he was
being imposed upon and to
dump the imposter without
ceremony.
As a matter of fact, he re-
mained just that little bit sus-
picious always, even of Marty.
Handling him never became a
matter of dull routine. How-
ever, on the appointed day,
when Kingaroy and the police-
man arrived at Roreyville, there
was Rocky standing saddled in
the shade of the banyan by the
stockyard, dozing like any old
camp-horse.
Marty rode him for half an
hour round the home-paddock,
opened and shut gates from his
back, even yarded a bunch of
yearlings that had once be-
longed to Larrapunya. Rocky
made a proud show of it,
mincing along, arching his
stallion’s neck and champing on
the bit, his roan hide gleaming
gold and violet in the sun.
So impressed was Kingaroy
that he approached to lay a
hand on Rocky. That was the
end of the good behavior.
Rocky put him on the run with
snapping teeth and flailing
hoofs. Then he dumped Marty
and departed, over the fences
and away.
Kingaroy conceded the vic-
tory and paid up on the spot,
and promised a new stock-
saddle by the first train down
from Darwin. However, as to
the promised horse-breaking
contract, he said that would
depend on the Roreys’ show-
ing that they would apply them-
selves to it in a business-like
way. They had given him
much trouble in the past with
their unreliability and their
quarrelsomeness, he said, and
he was not going to have any
more of it.
Ordinarily the Roreys would
have reacted violently to talk
like that. As it was, delighted
with their victory, they ignored
it.
Cven if the Larrapunya con-
■*-' tract had been granted to
the Roreys unconditionally,
almost certainly they would
soon have lost interest in it
as, with discovery of Rocky's
pretty turn of speed, they were
seized with the exciting possi-
bility of owning a champion
racehorse.
They settled down to train-
ing Rocky to the exclusion of
all other pursuits except (he
necessary thieving and the
making of home-brew. The
brewing also became essential
to the training, it having been
found that Rocky was more
tractable if his passion was in-
dulged. His favorite form of
indulgence was a bran - mash
made with beer and treacle.
Within six months they had
him ready for the round of
annual picnic race-meetings—
Pine Creek, Adelaide River,
Victoria River, Brocks Creek.
Rocky could always win
when he wanted. The trouble
was that he did not simply
refuse to go out on the track
when disinclined to race, but
would turn the race into a
fight with some other colt or
a love-match with a filly or a
public humiliation of Marty,
the only one who could handle
him at all when it came to
racing, by pelting him off
either in the parade or at the
barrier.
He was several times dis-
qualified for bad behavior
before a race. A couple of
times he entered the camps of
station people and stole food.
At Adelaide River he was
caught making a burglarious
assault on the marquee where
the official luncheon was set.
People were now astonished
by the Roreys' comparative
amiability. The obvious explan-
ation was the concentration of
the Roreys’ interest on their
darling. However, most people
declared that it was simply
that their style was cramped
by Rocky's misbehavior.
It was understanding of this
change that had come over the
Roreys that caused Roy
Kingaroy to support them in
their appeal against exclusion
of Rocky from entry for the
Katherine Cup. Talking it over
privately with members of the
Racing Committee, he said:
“l've been watching ’em closely
lately. It’s the idea of being
important in the community
that's changed 'em. They can
have that importance by run-
ning a good racehorse. They're
living in hopes of winning the
Cup some day. Dash those
hopes for them with some
piece of prejudice or official-
ism. and they'll be more anti-
social than ever.”
/~\ne of the committeemen
demanded, “You don't
think that brumby has a
chance of winning the Cup.
do you?”
“He’s not a brumby. He's
a half - brother to my mare
Arafura Star.”
Kingaroy's racing mare,
daughter of Black Bruce out
of Pacific Star, a mare that
had had great success in
metropolitan racing in the
South, had won the last
Katherine River Cup and was
hot favorite to win the next.
Kingaroy said: “1 don't reckon
their horse wall win this Cup.
but he’s got a good chance
later. He’s only rising four,
and he's pretty good, believe
me. He's not a rig, he's a
horse.”
Under that respectable
description of horse Rocky
was listed to run for the
Katherine Cup.
Every member of the Rorey
clan, from white-haired
wizened black Grandma to the
last yellow baby (except, of
course, those in jail or on the
run) gathered that year at
Katherine River. News of
their better behavior had got
about. Nevertheless, the people
of the Katherine were taking
no chances. The two hotels
increased the force of strong-
arm men they usually engaged
for race-time, and the sergeant
of police asked for an extra
couple of constables from Dar-
win and saw to the chains used
for restraining prisoners by
locking them to trees when the
iail-house overflowed.
There was such a mob of
Roreys that their camp, down
in the steep-walled gully that
was the dry-season river bed,
made it look as if a circus had
come to town. There were
tents and bush-houses, old cars
and trucks and sulkies and
tethered horses, ringed about
a great communal camp-fire
at which the bright-clad dark-
haired women cooked while
chattering in the soft half-caste
patois, by which the men in
sombreros and tight new
riding pants and shiny riding
boots squatted on hunkers
yarning and drawing aborigi-
nal symbols in the sand, and
about which the copper-
skinned children raced and
squealed and tumbled with the
dogs.
A t last the G reat Day
dawned, and in their
brightest, shiniest best the
family climbed up out of the
river bed with their champion
and made their way to the
racecourse shimmering in
morning mirage on the scarlet
plain.
Rocky was installed in the
bush-roofed stables off the
saddling paddock. Most of the
grown male Roreys stayed
with him, to attend his needs,
to keep oil the flies that might
easily put him in bad temper,
to walk him whenever he
showed the excessive restless-
ness that invariably culminated
in mischief.
The rest of the family settled
themselves under bush-shelters
beside the track. As owners,
they should be entitled to a
place in the grandstand with
the rest of the aristocracy of
the land, who today were
headed by no less a dignitary
than His Honor the Adminis-
trator, down from Darwin.
But not even Hookey Rorey,
in whites and panama and
wearing the badge of member-
ship of the Racing Club,
ventured near it.
The racing began at 10-
Although at each parade of
horses from saddling-paddock
to barrier the copper-brown
faces of the Roreys would
crowd the rails, and would stay
there while each race was run,
quizzing and craning round
the oval track till the field
came thundering in to the
finish, from them there was
none of the urging, cheering,
bemoaning loss or shouting
victory, as from the rest of
the pressing crowd.
For the Roreys had but one
fancy, and he was being saved
for the Cup in the afternoon.
Every now and again some
of them, all of them eventually*
even black grandma and the


grand - daughters with the
tiniest babies, would go back
to take a look at him, would
ask each other the eternal
question: “What you reckon
, . . he got chance?”
The question started no such
brave argument now. For
there alongside of Rocky were
those sleek rivals to his chance,
his aristocratic half - sister,
dark-brown Arafura Star, and
Red Robin, the big chestnut
stallion who had the cup be-
fore last, and the long-legged
pure Arab gelding, White
Sheik, fresh from first - class
racing in the South. These were
at very cramped odds, while
Rocky was being called at
five to one. All any of the
Roreys could say now was:
“If only he don’t play up!”
Others were expressing
themselves similarly: “That
Rocky the Rig’s got a good
chance ... if only he don’t
play up!”
But after all the hours of
waiting and wishing and the
petting lavished on the
creature, it looked as if he
were going to do just that,
play up and ruin everything.
Not even beer from the bottle
would quell his rising ill
temper, although he swigged
what they gave him greedily
enough.
The tempers of his atten
dants were rising too. Even
the patient Marty, sweating in
his silks, at last became exas-
perated to the point of yelling:
“You flamin’ myall, you . . .
You get you’self disqualified
this time, I shoot you like
everybody else want ’o do . . .
an’ feed you to the crows!”
Poor Marty was shaking,
not simply from the stress of
the moment, but from weak-
ness due to lack of nourish-
ment. He had had to fine down
drastically to meet Rocky’s
listed weight of 9.2.
Clang, clang, clangor-clang!
The jockeys were being
called to the weighing-out.
V|7ith saddle and whip,
Marty joined the proces-
sion to the scales. Amongst
the jockeys was Roy Kingaroy,
who always rode his own
horses. As Marty came off the
scales, Kingaroy squeezed his
arm, saying, “Go in and show
’em, son!”
Muttering those words to
himself, Marty went stumbling
away to saddle Rocky.
Hookey, helping him with the
girths, asked him what he was
saying, and when told, cried,
“That right; go in an’ show
’em!”
The other Roreys clustered
about the champion in the
saddling-paddock took up the
cry, ran with it out to the
copper - faced assemblage
crowding the rails awaiting the
parade of the Cup horses. As
the horses came mincing and
prancing out, the cry rose to
a shout, “Go in an’ show ’em,
Marty . . . Rocky . . . Go in
an’ show ’em!”
Just what Rocky felt in the
mood to show ’em was re-
vealed in his performance on
the way up to the barrier, pig-
rooting, rearing, pirouetting,
as if still in the breaking-yard.
The shouting of the Roreys
subsided to groans. Those
bookies who had watched
Rocky’s performances at pic-
nic races began to raise the
odds: “I’ll lay six against the
Rig . . . seven . . . eight to one,
Rocky the Rig!”
Not even the Roreys made
a move to take the longer
odds. And wisely! For there
was Rocky pawing the air five
yards back from the barrier
when the rest of the field were
in place and the Starter was
raising his hand.
“They’re off!”
TYocky even had his back
turned at that fatal moment.
But that sudden tattoo of
hooves was too much even for
his wilfulness. Shrilling alarm
at being left behind, he
wheeled to follow, leapt into
the others’ dust.
Still, he was several lengths
behind a field comprised of the
equine aristocracy of the land
A bookie cried: “I'll lay tens
against the Rig!”
There were no takers; at
least, not for the while ; not
for the first two furlongs. Then
as Rocky reached the field
and bored into it, there was a
rush to take the tens.
But could he keep up that
terrific pace for the whole
eight furlongs? All the bookies
began to cry tens against him.
The silence of the Roreys
broke suddenly: “Show ’em,
Rocky . . . show ’em!”
Like a storm the mass of
horseflesh swept thundering
and roaring on its way.
Shoulder to shoulder, muzzle
to rump, flowing tails and
tossing manes and bright silk
billowing.
Third furlong: the lesser
horses falling back. But Rocky
going up and up. The
favorites were bunched to-
gether, Red Robin on the
rails, then the white gelding,
then the brown mare.
Fourth furlong: now all the
lesser back and the lead to
the short-priced trio. Rocky on
the rails behind Red Robin.
At the fifth White Sheik
began to fail. Soon Rocky
was neck and neck with him
and straining for his place be-
tween the stallion and the
mare.
Sixth: the gelding falling
back, the rig creeping up be-
tween the stallion and the
mare.
Then Arafura Star leaping
into her terrific stride to pass
Red Robin. Rocky leaping
after her. Red Robin falling
back.
The mare was on the rails.
Rocky came up on her, muzzle
to girth, muzzle to shoulder.
Into the straight, to bear
down upon the milling, strain-
ing yelling crowd. No sound
out there but the running
thunder of their hoof-beats and
the roaring of their straining
lungs. The foam-flakes flew.
Muzzle to neck still, flaming,
straining muzzle of horse to
sweat-black slender neck of
mare. The whips were flailing.
The riders lay upon their
horses’ withers.
Past the start of the raging
crowd: “Arafura Star . . .
Rocky the Rig ... the Rig . . .
the Favorite . . . Show ’em,
Rocky, show ’em!”
Muzzle to neck still.
The Post!
“Arafura Star, the favorite,
wins . . . Arafura Star!”
VS7hen the horses pulled up
a long way down from
the crowd, Kingaroy swung to
Marty, panting: “Hard luck,
son. But you’ll get it yet.”
He stretched out his hand.
Marty didn’t seem to see, sit-
ting his heaving mount, droop-
ing, with fleshy copper-brown
features working in the abo-
riginal way under great
emotional stress.
When Rocky, flinging up his
head and shaking it in his fight
for normal breathing, swung
impatiently away, Marty let
him have his head, let him go
shoving into the other horses,
snapping and lashing with
hooves.
For a moment Kingaroy sat
his own quietly drooping horse,
looking after Marty. Then
suddenly he jerked up the
mare’s head and laid spurs to
her flanks. She snorted, reared,
pawed. He slipped his hand
to the weight-pouch on the off-
side of his saddle, pulled the
zipper, snatched out the weight
and flung it into the tangle of
scrubby growth beyond the
rail.
The Steward, riding through
the crowding horses, waved to
Kingaroy, and shouted:
“Great race, Roy!”
Other riders waved. There
could be no congratulating
till the win was declared
officially after the weighing-in.
As Kingaroy rode in to the
scales he glanced at the staring
Rorey clan. They were
bunched together, silent, dull-
eyed, people who had suffered
a calamity. There was, indeed,
a general air of depression, as
if a goodly number of the
crowd had taken a plunge on
Rocky in those last wild
minutes. Few save the bookies
were smiling.
Kingaroy was first on the
scales. Within five minutes the
official placings went up on the
board: —
Ist: Rocky.
2nd: Red Robin.
3rd: White Sheik.
Arafura Star Disqualified.
TVTever was verdict of a
Katherine River Cup run-
ning received with so much
acclaim, with shouting, danc-
ing, shaking hands all round.
Everybody seemed to be in it,
even, somewhat glumly, the
bookies.
No keeping the Roreys out
of the grandstand now.
Hookey and Marty had to go
in to receive the Cup from the
Administrator. The rest of the
clan pushed in after them.
The pity was that Rocky
could not be in it with the
family. It was not that he was
debarred, but when brought in
to be photographed with the
aristocracy he turned on the
old misanthropy. He had to be
taken round the back of the
grandstand. Carelessly, those
who removed him simply
slipped his bridle over a post
and dashed back for their
share of the glory.
Hookey and Marty, and as
many of the Roreys as could
pack their shining faces into
the picture, were posing with
the Administrator and other
officials for the photograph
that would appear in the Dar-
win paper when a fearful
racket in the liquor bar
beneath the grandstand halted
the proceedings.
Those in charge of the cater-
ing, for the moment out
watching th e ceremonial,
dashed back into the bar. To
the clanging and banging and
splintering of glass was added
shouting.
All turned to investigate, to
be met at the entrance by one
of the barmen, shouting. “It’s
that horse . . Rocky the
Rig . . . he’s at the beer!”


The WILDCAT
COUMN
Ampol Petroleum Ltd
A vigorous, rapidly expanding and
successful Australian concern, Ampol
Petroleum Limited has long been a
household name throughout the Com-
monwealth. An imaginative advertising
campaign has kept AmpoFs brand name
constantly before the public eye. In
addition, the company has promoted a
series of popular sporting functions such
as car trials, fishing contests, etc., which
have endeared Ampol to the public. The
fact that Ampol is wholly owned by Aus-
tralian capital has been plugged hard and
successfully, to woo public sentiment.
Ampol, originally called Australian
Motorists Petrol Co. Ltd, was established
in 1936 with an initial paid capital of
£200,000. This was supplemented by
efficient management and an iron deter-
mination to break into the foreign-
owned, exclusive circle of petrol dis-
tributors. By comparison with the inter-
national oil giants, Ampol remains a
relatively small company. But it has
become firmly established on the domestic
market, and has earned a lot of goodwill
by active participation in the pioneering
of Wapet’s oil search in Western Aus-
tralia. Ampol is still closely associated
with the search for oil through its 70 p.c.
share interest in Ampol Exploration Ltd.
Basically, Ampol is a national distri-
butor of petroleum products, particularly
motor spirit, sold through its own service
stations. The company owns two tankers,
“William G. Walkley” and “Leslie J.
Thompson” and has two others on long
term charter. The 70 p.c. share interest
in Ampol Exploration gives a one-
seventh share in Wapet. In addition,
there is a 41.49 p.c. capital interest in
B. F. Goodrich Australia Pty, which
produces tyres and other rubber pro-
ducts. Subsidiaries are Ampol Petroleum
(Victoria) Pty and Ampol Petroleum
(Queensland) Pty. Last term Yellow
Cabs Holdings Ltd, a Melbourne taxi
cab company, was taken over as a wholly
owned subsidiary.
Other major events last term were the
acquisition of a 25 p.c. interest in the
£13,000,000 lubricating oil refinery to be
built at Kurnell, near Sydney, in N.S.W.,
and an option on land at Port Aima
(Queensland) as a possible refinery site.
The project was about to be dropped
at a certain stage, but now seems topical
again.
The keel of a new £4,000,000 32,250-
ton super tanker was laid at Whyalla
(South Australia). Ampol also in-
augurated a staff investment trust. The
policy of decentralisation was continued,
and a new seaboard terminal opened at
Port Kembla (N.S.W.) last September,
with an initial storage capacity of
3,900,000 gallons.
Ampol’s determined bid for amalga-
mation with H. C. Sleigh Ltd, made in
May, 1960, was unsuccessful. AmpoFs
board said that if the amalgamation bid
(described in some quarters as the largest
takeover offer made on the Austra-
lian sharemarket) had succeeded, it
would have afforded several major advan-
tages to both groups, including
“economies and rationalisation of mar-
keting, selling techniques, advertising and
administration, tanker usage, etc., inte-
gration of Hardie Rubber Co. (a sub-
sidiary of H. C. Sleigh Ltd) with B. F.
Goodrich Australia Pty, consolidation of
interest in the lubricating oil refinery . . .
and would have given H. C. Sleigh share-
owners a direct interest in the search
for oil in Western Australia.”
There are many important advantages
in the preservation of separate identities
of the two independent Australian petrol
distributors. However, amalgamation
would have strengthened Australian oil
interests, which have to compete on an
equal footing with international petro-
leum concerns. The potential danger of
an overseas takeover bid remains, though
unlikely at the moment because of poli-
tical implications.
The year ended September 30, 1960,
was active and profitable. Sales gallon-
age rose from 195,367,831 gallons to
225,007,833 gallons. Group turnover and
other revenue increased by a further
£2,804,563 (or 8.6 p.c.) to £35,351,659.
Consolidated net profit was £237,270,
or 12.7 p.c., higher at £2,103,883 after
providing £962,614 for depreciation (up
£240,936) and setting aside £920,000
(down £82,239) for taxation:
f— Dividends ~ Nominal
Sept., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1955 .. 585,948 6 12* 405,512 2,832,541
To staff fund, £20,000 .. .. 2,812,541
Note-issue expenses, £37,500 .. 2,775,041
Reserves capitalised, £745,244 .. 2,029,797
Share-premiums, £440,756 .. 2,470,553
To capital reserve, £150,000 .. 2,620,553
Revaluation fixed assets, £1,213,972 3,834,525
1956 .. 779,820 6 12* 526,202 4,088,143
Reserves capitalised, £994,237 .. 3,093,906
Share-premiums, £11,051 .. .. 3,104,957
Tax overprovided, £30,161.. .. 3,135,118
Share-issue expenses, £9610 .. 3,125,508
To staff fund, ete., £48,002 .. 3,077,506
1957 ..1,436,519 6 12* 812,825 3,701,200
Share-premiums, £5477 .. .. 3,706,677
Capital profit, £49,592 .. .. 3,756,269
Reduction oil-search reserve,
£139,656 3,616,613
Tax overprovided, £25,000 .. 3,641,613
To staff fund, £32,661 .. .. 3,608,952
Note-issue expenses, £3728 .. 3,605,224
1958 ..1,711,007 6 13* 1,068,063 4,248,168
Share premiums, £750,000 .. .. 4,998,168
Reduction oil-search res., £55,838 4,942,330
To staff fund, £24,169 .. .. 4,918,161
1959 ..1,866,613 6 13* 1,336,555 5,448,219
Share premiums, £199,851 .. .. 5,648,070
Assets revaluation, £1,041,151 .. 6,689,221
Reduction oil-search reserve,
£111,723 6,577,498
1960 ..2,103,883 6 14 1,570,815 7,110,566
* Subject to intangibles, £363,901 at 30/9/60.
After paying £60,000 preference divi-
dends, this was equivalent to an earning
rate of 19 p.c. on the higher average
ordinary capital, compared with 19.4 p.c.,
on lower average capital, earned in the
previous term, 22.1 p.c. in 1958, 21.7 p.c.
in 1957 and 17 p.c. in 1956.
The ordinary dividend rate was lifted
from 13F p.c. to 14 p.c., despite the
capital increase, and absorbed £1,510,815.
Reserves benefited by £533,068. Share
premiums on capital issues during the
year netted Ampol £199,851. Freehold
service stations property was written up
by £1,041,151. Oil search reserve was
decreased by £111,723 expenses incurred
during the year. Total accumulated con-
solidated reserves and undistributed
profits were disclosed at £7,110,566, sub-
ject to £363,901 intangibles at balance
date.
A dissection of operating expenses and
appropriations disclosed a slight increase
in material costs, government duty and
salaries and wages:
Operating-expenses, Appropriations, etc., as a
Percentage op Total Revenue.
1958. 1959. 1960.
p.c. p.c. p.c.
Material costs .. .. 41.09 40.51 42.24
Duty 21.28 22.63 23.09
Services and overhead .. 20.15 19.42 16.22
Salaries and wages .. 6.51 6.48 7.18
Depreciation .. .. 2.79 2.22 2.72
Income tax.. .. .. 3.17 3.08 2.6
Dividends .. .. .. 3.63 4.11 4.44
Retained earnings. . .. 1.38 1.55 1.51
100.00 100.00 100.00
Income tax was lower, an anomaly
which might be due to AmpoFs expan-
sionary moves.
During the vear, paid capital was lifted
from £11,695,859 to £11,805,179 (in
1,000,000 6 p.c. cum. prefs. and
43,220,714 ss. ords.) by conversion of
options. At September 30, 1960, there
were 185,731 options carrying the right
to take up ss. ords., at 10s. premium a
unit, before December 1, 1961. After
balance date the co. issued £855,305 in
ss. ords., as purchase consideration for
the acquisition of Yellow Cabs Holdings
Ltd and Yellow Cabs (W.A.) Ltd.
Loan capital was much higher. Borrow-
ings on notes rose from £4,461,908 to
£10,779,951, including £1,493,608 6 p.c.
conv. notes maturing on May 1, 1963,
and £4,098,893 6 p.c. notes maturing on
April 4, 1967.
Freeholds, plant, etc., jumped by
£5,977,289 (including £1,041,151 write up
of freehold service stations properties) to
£28,807,783. This comprises £ 1,639,064
leaseholds, £17,301,610 freeholds,
£5,647,914 plant, machinery, pumps and
equipment and £4,219,195 tankers in
operation and under construction.
Partnership arrangements between
Ampol and International B. F. Good-
rich involved financing by means of
secured long term loans in addition to
capital contribution. Last term’s long
term loan amounted to £560,353:
1958. 1959. 1960.
Paid capital .. £9,378,241 £11,695,859 £11,805,179
Reserves .. 4,248,168 5,448,219 7,110,566
Loans . . . . 1,238,950 1,228,950 2,816,820
Notes .. .. 4,461,908 4,461,908 10,779,951
Overdraft . . 700,626 3,091,600 2,794,393
Creditors . . 3,328,544 5,819,674 5,179,663
Loan by subsid. - 90,000 122,000
Staff funds . . 59,000 46,948 66,179
Tax provision. . 900,871 1,025,000 1,003,753
Final dividends 524,281 672,195 756,317
£24,900,589 £33,580,353 £42,434,821
Freeholds, etc. ) 16,715,133 22,830,494 28,807,783
Plant, etc. j
Shares Ampol
Exploration.. 1,417,940 1,417,940 1,417,940
Loan to Associ-
ated co. ..
Shares other cos. 31,784 556,276 532,119
Advance to Sub-
sidiary .. 75,000
Note-redemption
Fund . . 61,891 90,000 120,000
Stocks . . 2,271,652 2,993,831 3,700,205
Debtors, cash,
etc. .. 3,987,689 5,354,112 6,932,520
Intangibles .. 339,500 337,700 363,901
£24,900,589 £33,580,353 £42,434,821
Shares in Ampol Exploration Ltd (whose


JOHN N. ROBERTSON
member of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKER.
Temple Court,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne C.l.
Telephones: 67 4804, 67 2465
Telegrams & Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
Telegraphic and Cable Address:
“Hatmax” Sydney.
Hattersley & Maxwell
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
115 Pitt Street. Sydney.
Telephone: B\V 1711—MV 8088.
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER.
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Cloor,
Tlie National Mutual Life Building
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 312761 P.O. Box
(4 Lines) No. 1887 W
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members ot the Sydney Stock Exchange
R. H. ALLEN, M. R. L. DOWLING
P. R. LEVA, A. P. REYNOLDS, N. R.
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner)
Oelfin House, 16 O'Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building, 150 Queen St.
Melbourne. 67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: "Rosdale,” Sydney
Melbourne, or Wollongong.
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOL
situated in the Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Buildings.
Junior House separate from the rest
of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on application
to
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
results were not included in consolidated
figures) were shown at the unchanged
book value of £1,417,940. Last term
Ampol Exploration drilled three wells
(Thangoo 1 and 1A and Barlee No. 1)
near Broome (W.A.), but the main
emphasis was placed on seismological
work.
Current assets were £706,374 higher.
Book debts, etc., rose by £1,578,408 to
£6,932,520.
Book value of consolidated assets
was £8,852,527 (26.4 p.c.) higher at
£42,434,821. Theoretical working capital
amounted to £1,605,260. Net tangible
asset backing works out at £lB 11s. for
each 20s. pref. and Bs. 2d. for every
ss. ord. unit.
Ampol seems to have a sound financial
structure, despite heavy borrowings. Lhe
small increase in the ordinary dividend
rate is encouraging, although further
substantial improvements in the rate of
distribution to shareholders appear un-
likely because of the heavy increases in
paid capital, which tend to depress the
earning-rate even though profits continue
to rise in absolute terms. A new share
issue, details of which will be given
soon, has just been announced.
Introduction of the “Boron” brand of
motor spirit succeeded in substantially
lifting demand. Motor spirit sales were
said to have increased by 13 p.c., com-
pared with a general rise of about 9 p.c.
in total Australian consumption. Sales
for the March half-year increased by
5.5 p.c. and revenue by 2.4 p.c.
Early last term Ampol had consider-
able funds “invested in projects which
had not yet reached the revenue earn-
ing stage,” notably from the B. F. Good-
rich venture. Dividends from this source
cannot be expected until the new venture
has fully developed its production and
distribution system on the difficult tyre
market, which had received a painful jolt
from the credit squeeze through the
motor vehicles industry.
The newly registered subsidiary,
National Share Services Pty, established
to “operate and maintain stock, share
and note registers for large or small
public companies” should prove useful.
Ampol remains popular on the share-
market, and its scrip continues to com-
mand a substantial premium. At the last
sale in Sydney the ss. ords. fetched
13s. 4d., for an immediate return of
5.2 p.c. p.a.
The ss. 6 p.c. conv. notes maturing
1963, last changed hands at 12s. a unit
and give an immediate yield of 2.5 p.c.
p.a. The ss. 6 p.c. conv. notes, maturing
1967, were last traded for 10s. Id. a unit,
and have an immediate return of 3
p.c. p.a.
Options last fetched 9d. each and the
20s. prefs. brought 18s. a unit.
Freighters Ltd
A general and transportation engineer
and manufacturer, the Victorian-
registered Freighters Ltd handles trans-
port, refrigeration, construction, air-con-
ditioning and earthmoving equipment as
well as trailers, semi-trailers, jinkers,
heavy-duty low-loaders, bulk transport,
petrol and milk tankers, refrigerated trans-
port, deep-freeze plants, rippers, bull-
dozers, scoops, motor bodies, fork-lift
trucks and fibreglass pleasure boats pro-
duced at Seaton (S.A.).
The group operates through eight
subsidiaries. Martin Nixon Pty, of W.A.,
and Cameron and Sutherland Ltd, Vic-
torian merchandiser, were acquired last
term. Purchase consideration was
586,667 ss. ords. and 180,000 ss. ords.
plus 110,000 20s. notes respectively. In
addition, 250,000 ss. ords. were allotted
for cash to Trailmobile Inc. (of U.S.A.),
under a general licensing and distribu-
tion agreement covering Australasia.
The whole of the sums due by past
directors, the last relic of a sad episode
in Freighters’ history, was collected by the
co. during the year.
The group’s overall position improved
during last term. Turnover rose by 35
p.c. to £4.25 million. Costs continued to
rise but higher sales resulted in an in-
crease of £39,753 (to £172,153) in con-
solidated net profit for the year ended
June 30, 1960.
This was after providing £52,200 for
depreciation (up £11,115), and setting
aside £61,875 for taxation (up £3080).
The dividend rate was lifted from 8 p.c.
to 10 p.c., absorbing £110,760 and leaving
£61,393 for transfer to reserves:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. f Dividends N serves. serves.*
£ £ £ £
Share-premiums, £ISOO .. .. 300,237
Add on consolidation, £93,829 .. 454,006
Profit sale assets, £2721 .. .. 456,787
Unexplained addition, £7070 .. 403,857
1955.. 159,842 15 p.c. =135,926 23,916 487,773
Profit sale assets, £8509 .. .. 496,282
Establishment expenses w/off, £6980 489,302
Unexplained addition. £9986 .. 499,288
Added on purchase of subsid., £3634 502.922
1956. .176,364 15 p.c. =138,346 38,018 540,940
Freeholds revalued, £215,594 .. 756,534
Profit sale assets, £30,621 .. .. 787,155
Establishment expenses w/off, £29,732 757,423
To prov. 1.-s. leave, £IO,OOO .. 747,423
Unexplained reduction, £1232 .. 746.191
1957.. 11,359 11,359 757,550
Tax underprovided, £6ll .. . „ 756,939
Profit sale assets, £8857 .. .. 765,796
Development exp., etc., w/off, £5714 760,082
1958.. 7i p.c. = 70,383 44,440 804,522
Freeholds revalued, £13,138 .. .. 817,660
Profit sale assets, £39,953 .. .. 857,613
Development exp., etc., w/off, £3168 854,445
1959. .132,400 8 p.c. = 75,075 57,325 911,771
Share premiums, £73,333 .. .. 985,104
Assets revaluation, £94,200 .. 1,079,304
Less factory transfer exp, £IO,OOO 1,069,304
Less motor-vehicles project written-
off, £70,378 . .. .. 998,926
Less adjustment shares subsids., £6650 992,276
Profit sale assets, £11,340 .. 1,003,616
Less development-expenses, etc., written-
off, £332 1,003,284
Less intangibles written-off, £82,001 921,283
Add net adjustments to reserves,
£21,552 942,835
1960. .172,153 10 p.c. =110,760 61,393 1,004,228
* Subject to intangibles, £62,500 at 30/6/60.
Consolidated group profit was equivalent
to an earning rate of 15.5 p.c. on the
higher average capital, compared with
14.1 p.c. in the previous term and 12.2
p.c. in 1958, 1.1 p.c. in the disastrous 1957
and 19.2 p.c. in 1956.
The tax provision seems a bit light in
relation to earnings disclosed, but the
picture is complicated by subsidiaries.
“As the purpose for which special
reserves were originally created no longer
exists, they have been transferred to the
profit and loss account.” The position
with reserves looked a bit involved, due
to several transfers, write-offs, etc.
Issues of scrip made during the year
resulted in £73,333 share premiums.
Freeholds were again written up, by
£94,200. Profit on sale of assets amounted
to £11,340.
Reserves were depleted by £IO,OOO


CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111 .
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
N.S. W. Branch:
Kinclersley House,
Hligli - O’Connell Sts., Sydney
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
iiapid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
eU.. Makers of Classilters,
W ater filters. Steam \ alves,
etc
HAVE YOU EVER TRIED THIS
a feature of
Womans Mirror
, GET YOUR COPY TODAY
transferred to a newly created
provision for factory removal
expenses, £70,378 motor
vehicles project written off,
£332 development expenses,
etc., and £82,001 intangibles
written off. After adding
£21,552 net adjustments, this
pruning operation left con-
solidated accumulated reserves
and undistributed profits at
balance date at £1,004,228,
subject to £62,500 intangibles.
Last term the co. raised
£357,364 8 p.c. unsecured notes.
Bank accommodation rose by
£77,953 to £644,715. Creditors,
etc. were £429,945 higher at
£825,673:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1959. 1960.
Paid capital .. £938,438 £1,191,155
Reserves .. 911,771 1,004,228
Outside interests 14,690 4,086
Notes . . . . 357,364
Deferred liability 20,000
Overdraft .. 566,762 644,715
Creditors, etc. . . 395,728 825,673
Prov. 1.-s. leave 20,000 31,868
Tax provision .. 58,415 63,221
Provision factory
transfers . . 10,000
Final div. . . 39,884 56,505
£2,945,688 £4,208,815
Freeholds . . 770,502 1,096,231
Plant . . . . 793,619 936,421
£1,564,121 £2,082,652
Less depreciation 330,881 410,024
£1,233,240 £1,622,628
Shares other cos. 30,608 21,867
Deferred debts . . 15,800 13,394
Stock . . . . 1,221,887 1,872,941
Sundry debtors,
etc.” . . . . 423,970 613,290
Cash .. .. 3,184 2,195
Intangibles . . 16,999 62,500
£2,945,688 £4,208,815
Current stocks were £651,054
higher at £1,872,941 and book
debts rose by £189,320. Theo-
retical working capital in-
creased from £583,173 to
£856,444.
After the close of accounts
the co. issued 1,431,126 7 p.c.
convertible notes, three-for-ten
at par, maturing on July 1,
1966.
It is difficult to assess, at this
stage, what impact the credit
squeeze has had on Freighters"
earnings during the current
term. Growing diversification
should help.
At the last sale in Sydney the
ss. ords. changed hands at
7s. 4d. a unit, for an immediate
return of 6.8 p.c. on the basis
of the present 10 p.c. dividend
distribution. The ss. 7 p.c.
conv. notes looked attractive
at ss. 9d. a unit, with an im-
mediate yield of 6.1 p.c.
Net tangible asset backing
works out at Bs. lid. for each
ss. ord. unit on the basis of
consolidated accounts.
London Stores Ltd
HThe Melbourne department
store proprietor’s fiftieth
year in business was marked by
rising costs and marred by the
credit squeeze in the last
quarter. This had trimmed net
earnings despite a substantial
increase in turnover.
Capital structure remained
unchanged. The handsome
p.c. ordinary dividend rate was
maintained ; the dividend
cheque was adequately covered
T r a d i n g from its head-
quarters at the intersection of
Bourke and Elizabeth Streets,
London Stores Ltd specialises
in tailoring, mercery and sport-
ing goods. The co. also oper-
ates a renovated and modern-
ised branch store in Prahran
(an inner Melbourne suburb).
Net profit for the year ended
February 28, 1961, slipped
down by £11,600 to £88,458,
after providing £4969 for de-
preciation of fixed assets (up
£2167), and setting aside
£48,541 for taxation (down
£2320): —
Parent 00.
,—Dividends—^
Pref. Ord. lle-
Feb., Profit. 9 p.c. 174 p.c. serves,*
£ £ £ £
Tax overprovided, £3319 1,045,703
To staff fund, £5OOO . . 1,040,703
1958.. 90,968 9000 52,500 1,070,171
Tax overprovided, £2 . . 1,070,173
To staff fund, £5OOO . . 1,065,173
1959.. 84,228 9000 52,500 1,087,901
Tax overprovided, £Bl . . 1,087,982
Less loss sale assets, £966 1,087,016
To staff fund, £5OOO .. 1,082,016
1980. . ,88.458 9000 52,500 1,108,974
Tax underprovided, £3413 1,105,561
1961.. 76,858 9000 52,500 1,120,919
* After deducting goodwill, £16,659 at
■ 28/2/61.
The decrease in tax provision
looks a bit modest in relation
to the fall in disclosed net earn-
ings.
After paying £9OOO prefer-
ence dividends, net profit of
the parent co. w ; as equal to an
earning rate of 22.6 p.c. on the
average ordinary capital, com-
pared with 26.5 p.c. in the
previous term. 25.1 p.c. in 1959,
27.3 p.c. in 1958, 24.8 p.c. in
1957 and 28.4 p.c. in 1956.
The steady 171 p.c. dividend
rate absorbed £52,500. Reserves
benefited by £15,358. but were
decreased by £3413 tax under-
provided in the previous term
and appeared at £1,120,919
(subject to £16,659 intangibles).
Freeholds and plant, etc. were
shown at higher book
values:
Paid capital—- 1960. 1961.
Pref £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Ord 300,000 300,000
Reserves .. 1,125,633 1,137,578
Overdraft . . 40,633
Creditors . . 114,801 51,910
Staff fund . . 27,633 27,633
Tax provision . . 50,861 48,541
Final div. . . 30,000 30,000
£1,748,928 £1,736,295
Freehold . . 1,306,619 1,318,685
Plant, fittings, etc. 76,517 109,287
Shares subsidiary 4,188 4,188
Stocks, etc. . . 218,674 241,121
Debtors .. 27,701 41,599
Cash, etc. .. 98,570 4,756
Intangibles . . 16,659 16,659
£1,748,928 £1,736,295
Creditors and current stocks
were higher. The co. obtained
a £40,633 bank overdraft.
Theoretical working capital de-
creased by £32,891 to £116,392.
Liquidity remained adequate.
The co. is in good shape, but
current term’s prospects depend
largely on the general economic
conditions in V i c t o r i a. The
credit squeeze has affected this
year's opening weeks of
trading.
Sharemarket rating is im-
pressive. At the last sale in
Melbourne the 20s. ords.
fetched 755. a unit, for an im-
mediate return of 4.7 p.c. on
the basis of the steady p.c.
dividend distribution.
Propped up by massive re-
serves, net tangible asset back-
ing works out at £l5 4s. 2d. for
each 9 p.c. 20s. pref. and £4
14s. 9d. for each 20s. ord., all
fully paid.
COMPANY NOTES
John Mcllwraith Industries
Ltd
Tohn Mcllwraith Industries
** Ltd has acquired the whole
of the issued share capital of
L. D. Mee Investments Pty Ltd
(of Melbourne). Purchase con-
sideration is to be satisfied by
the issue of 700,000 ss. fully
paid ords. plus £40,000 in cash.
The new stock units will rank
for dividend from January 1,
1961, and will be eligible for
dividend to be paid in Septem-
ber, 1961. A formal applica-
tion for the listing of the
700,000 stock units will be
made at a later date.
Motel Holdings Ltd
A/fIOTEL Holdings Ltd has
failed to gain official list-
ing on the Sydney Stock
Exchange. Mr P. E. Davies-
Roe, the managing-director,
has told The Bulletin that the
co. “was refused listing by the
Stock Exchange Committee,
but was not given any reason
for the refusal.” He stated that
the co. is now “studying the
legal position” with a view to
securing listing. The co. has
just made a 3s. a unit call on
the 2s. paid ords.
Initially the co. was floated
(without an underwriting
broker) in September, 1960,
under the name of Guinea
Motels Ltd. The prospectus
stated that the co. intended to
operate motels in N.S.W.
country areas, with emphasis
on low capitalisation costs
(using prefabricated buildings)
and competitive tariff rates (a
standard charge of a guinea a
night, plus 6s. 6d. additional for
breakfast). The prospectus
listed Dubbo, Albury, Cooma
and Wagga (all N.S.W.) as
the prospective motel sites.
On September 15, 1960,
400,000 ss. ords. were offered


Be part of
Australia’s
Expansion
with.
Reid
3.7 \
A
ACCEPTANCE LIMITED
JEZS,
saw
Top to bottom:
QLD.: Torbreck
home units, Bris.
VIC-: Hicks
Atkinson Ltd., Melb.
W.A.: John Allans,
"Champions of
A Made".
S.W.: Cowell’s
nite House Pty.
Ltd., Sydney.
S A.: David Murray
Stores Ltd
1
't
*
S I
L
Shown here are just a few of the opera-
ting companies of the Reid Murray group.
All told these include: 202 Retail Stores,
7 Wholesale Warehouses, Real Estate
Companies in 5 States, and the Finance
Co. for the group Reid Murray Accept-
ance Ltd. An investment in Reid Murray
Acceptance Ltd. is an investment in one
of Australia’s best backed Companies.
Applications accepted only on forms attached
to the Prospectus. Available from:
RE!O MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67-1924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbou ne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melb.
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William Street, Adelaide
Members of Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.
P.A. for 8 and 10 years
REG. FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
i/%
P.A,—5 YEARS
71%
P.A.— 2 YEARS
7%
P.A.—l YEAR
5%
P.A.—6 MONTHS
AO
4, /O
P.A.—3 MONTHS
4%
P.A.—AT CALL
PAID-UP CAPITAL
£6,000,000
to the public, payable 2s. on
application, the balance callable
as required. Directors said they
expected to earn a net profit
of 25 p.c. before tax on paid
capital, and confidently fore-
cast a 12| p.c. dividend rate.
In November, 1960, Guinea
Motels acquired Realty
Development Ltd by an
exchange of scrip. Motel
Holdings Ltd was then
launched to amalgamate the
two companies on the basis of
two ss. Motel Holdings ords.
(paid to 25.) for each Guinea
Motels to ss. ord. (paid to 25.),
and five ss. fully-paid ords. for
each four Realty Development
ss. fully-paid ords. Subscribers
to Guinea Motels, in effect,
ended up with two 2s. paid
Motel Holdings ords. for each
2s. paid Gu nea Motels ord.
For a while this looked like
bonus issue jam-on-the-butter,
but the recent 3s. a unit call
caused concern among some
shareholders, who were re-
quired to pay out 6s. a unit
instead of the expected 35., in
conditions of a money-tight
market.
The fact that the shares are
unlisted has prevented share-
holders, who wanted to avoid
the call, from selling their
holdings.
Calls had to be paid by April
21, 1961. The co. claims that
response to the call was gener-
ally good, and that only a few
calls are in arrears. Share-
holders in arrears have been
given time up to May 19, 1961,
to pay up, after which date
their shares will be forfeited.
Mr Davies-Roe stated that
at this stage Motel Holdings
does not intend to sue default-
ing shareholciers.
However, certain share-
holders have refused to pay the
call claiming they “lack con-
fidence in the co.’s policy.”
The directors are said to have
been approached with a request
to buy back some of the 2s.
paid shares, as the scrip is not
being traded on the share-
market.
It remains to be seen how
successful the last call was (in
terms of cash received) and
what, if any, are the back-
ground aspects of the venture.
Prompt listing would help to
establish shareholders’ confi-
dence. On the whole, the pre-
sent economic outlook for this
type of company gives food for
thought because of the con-
tinuing credit restrictions.
The capital position of Motel
Holdings on April 7, 1961, was
given as “1.153,390 ss. ords.
allotted as fully paid up other-
wise than in cash and 399,550
ss. shares allotted as partly
paid up otherwise than in
cash.” There were no shares
allotted as fully paid in cash.


ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED,
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. FF 3931.
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hvclelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England
CUSTOM
CORPORATION
I
CREDIT
LIMITED
Offers to Long or Short Term Investors
CUMULATIVE STOCK
3 to 20 Years, 6% per annum
Applications must be made on the Forms enclosed
in the Prospectus, which is now available from
ALL MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGE
Every Branch of
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Each of the 46 Branches of
CUSTOM CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
130 New South Head Road, Darling Point, Sydney. ccc2:46i
Telephone: FM 5861. Secretary-General: KEITH LOVE.
■ ; v
£ ■ t I
11
111
h;
Salamander Salt Ltd
CULAMANDER SALT LIMITED
has announced that its first
salt producing unit at Taylors
Fo.nt, Port Stephens, N.S.W.,
ts nearing completion.
. 11 <? estimated that the test-
ing of this unit under practical
working condmons will be
completed by the end of May,
1961. Con ruction of the re-
maintng salt producing units
will then be undertaken pro-
• , t ,-T-, „ K „
gressivey. e company as
ample funds in hand to enable
u . c -c .
exhaustive tests of its first unit,
even if they have to be extended
well beyond the estimated test-
ing period.”
“Sufficient funds” would re-
main for installation of further
units.
OIL AND MINING
Comalco
E , he anoounceme nt of
N the Consolidated Zinc-
Kaiser Aluminium partnership
; Novemb 1960 , inform-
£ has bee ’ rele^ed from
(j about a nunlber
o£ new cos have bcen
f Comalco Indus-
(Comalco
• iV • . . V
is an abbreviated form of
Commonwealth Aluminium
,
Corporation Pty) now
■
com P n ses.
Comalco Industries Pty—the
parent holding and manage-
ment co., in which Consoli-
dated Zinc and Kaiser Alum n-
ium are equal shareholders ;
incorporated in Victoria in
December, 1960.
Commonwealth Aluminium
Corporation Pty—the principal
operating subsidiary in Aus-
tralia holding the Weipa
bauxite lease and responsible
for development of alumina
production, harbor works and
community facilities at Weipa ;
the original co. formed by
Consolidated Zinc in Queens-
land in December, 1956.
Comalco Products Pty —the
aluminium fabricating sub-
sidiary of the group, with
aluminium extrusion facilities
(estimated cost, £7 million) at
Yennora near Sydney and a
sheet aluminium plant due for
completion in October, 1961
(these facilities, with an extru-
sion press at Maribyrnong,
Vic., were purchased from
Austral Bronze Co. Pty in
February, 1961); incorporated
in Victoria in December, 1960.
Comalco Power Ltd —to
construct and operate the Lake
Manapouri hydro - electric
power scheme in New Zea-
land ; incorporated as a private
co. in New Zealand in March
1961.
Comalco Aluminium Ltd—
to operate the aluminium re-
duction smelter at Bluff, near
Invercargill, New Zealand;
incorporated as a private co!
in New Zealand in March
1961.
Aluminium Production Cor-
poration Ltd (APCO) —operat-
ing Australia’s only existing
aluminium smelter, at Bell Bay,
Tasmania, with an expansion
of output from 12,000 tons to
28,000 tons of aluminium metal
per annum on the way ; incor-
porated in Tasmania in Decem-
ber, 1960; two-thirds owned
by Comalco Industries and
one-third owned by the Tas-
manian Government.
The rejuvenated Comalco
complex (British Aluminium
pulled out in September, 1960)
towers massive amongst the
giant industrial undertakings
of the Southern Hemisphere
proving, at last, an articulate
and dynamic exploitation of
the vast Weipa-centred bauxite
deposits flanking west-side
Cape York Peninsula. The
programme envisaged involves
expenditure, by mid-1966, of
about £AI3O million on the
construction of a 360,000 tons
per annum alumina extraction
plant at Weipa, an under-
ground hydro-electric power
station with an initial 285,000
kilowatt capacity at Lake
Manapouri, and a 120,000 tons
per annum aluminium smelter
at Bluff, the port of Inver-
cargill.
Oil Development N.L.
Oil Development N.L.
reports that the Penola
No. 1 well in South Australia
reached a depth of 4985 feet.
When pulling out of the hole
from this depth, the drill pipe |
became stuck about 30 feet off
bottom. Efforts to free it
resulted in the recovery of 4200
feet of drill pipe. An electric
log and velocity survey have
been run to 4150 feet. Before
recovery of the drill pipe left
in the hole is attempted several (
formation tests will be run.
“When circulating the drill-
ing mud after trying acid
treatment to free the stuck
drill pipe, the gas-sniffer
detected hydrocarbons ic
greater concentration than
viously found in the mud
during the drilling.” It lS
thought that the acid treatment
increased the permeability ot
a porous bed and allowed the
escape of hydrocarbons.


Personal
How old Tom Fair, the Shropshire lad,
lived to he 152: how President Eisen-
hower, U.S.A., recovered from coronary
thrombosis; how England may win the
next Tests in Australia : how women may
retain that schoolgirl complexion all
their days, without make-up, and be as
fit as they look ; all this and more is
to be found in “Rheumatism and mental
depression', etc.,” 4/- post free from
PETER E. SOMERVILLE, 7 Upper
Norwich Road, Bournemouth, England.
Missing Friend
TO KEITH GEOROE RICE formerly of
20(a) Adelaide Street Mumimbeenu
Victoria but now. of parts unknown.'—
TAKE NOTICE that your wife CHAR-
LOTTE THELMA RICE has commenced
proceedings for Divorce’ against you on
the ground of separation and that unless
you file an Answer in the Office of the
Prothonotary of the Supreme Court at
Melbourne on or before the 2nd June
1961 the' suit may proceed in your
absence and you mav be ordered to par
costs.—RIDGEWAY. PEARCE &
KINGSTON, Solicitors, 379 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Divorce Notices
IK THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —Lv Divorck.
TO JOHN THORNTON late of Guild-
font—TAKE NOTICE that THELMA
MAT THORNTON has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3939 of 1900 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Mint Building Macquarie
Street Sydney by 3rd day of July 1901
and obtain a copy of the Petition witti-
out charge from S. J. BULL. SON &
SCHMIDT, Solicitors, of 34 Martin
Place. Sydney.— G. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES In Dtvoßcr.
TO PER VIS CLARENCE ROSS late
of Drummoyne.—TAKE NOTICE that
JOYCE BERTHA ROSS has tiled a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 539 of 1901 on the
ground oi desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
and is asking for tile exercise of the
Court's discretion under S. 19 (2) (a)
of the Matrimonial Causes Aet 1899
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Mint Building Macquarie
Street Sydney by- 3rd of July 1961 arid
obtain a copv of the Petition without
charge from S. J. BULL, SON &
SCHMIDT, Solicitors, of 34 Martin
Place, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES In Divorck.
TO JAMES ANDREW YOUNG—TAKE
NOTICE that MARGARET DEVICE
YOUNG has filed a Petition No. 3736
of 1960 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Mint Building Mac-
quarie Street Sydney by the 26th June
1961 A copy of' the Petition may be
obtained without charge from H. V.
HARRIS WHEELER & WILLIAMS; Soli-
citors, Cnr. Bolton and King Streets,
Newcastle, Solicitors for the Petitioner,
or from their Svdnev Agents, KEVIN
ELLIS &' PRICE, 10 Martin Place,
Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
!\cime and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned uidess stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
R.J.F.: That should upset the
Egg Board:
Wake up, you senseless clots.
And bring the egg price down,
Don't be forever blots
Upon whom people frown . . .
....J.W.: Send us your “Ode on
the Russian Conquest of Venus
when they finally get there
W.W.:
Like Joyce, my pupil s mother
may,
In writing, every freedom take:
’Scuse Jim for been home yester-
day,
Becos he had the beleak."
Joyce who? .... L.G.F.: Develop
your descriptive ability, write more
about men and less about mankind.
....8.K.0.: No, you cannot use
T. S. Eliot as a pseudonym....
M.C.C.: Sorry about Bill:
Bill is Bill the opthalmic wizard
With chunks of steel stuck in the
gizzard
Of his left eye.
A.H.: You grossly overvalue
your poem. The costs are itemised
as:—
Blue necktie 10s.
1 Relaxa tablet .. .. 3d.
86 beans of pure cotfee ■■
2 cups of Nescafd .. 6d.
Wear on typewriter .. 6d.
Wear on brains ... 3d.
Paper 2d.
2 hours’ work, not
including typing. Bar-
gain at ss. p.h 10s.
Without rhyme or reason you give
£2 2s. Bd. as total outlay, but these
expenses come to only £1 Is. Bd.
Are you putting an undisclosed
price on your inspiration?....
A.S.: You say you don’t like
poetry: that's understandable, but
why not read some other people’s
poetry? .... M.F.: Nicely turned
but needs more bite to make it felt.
. ...G.N.: You can’t kid us he
didn’t know that the rhinoceros was
in the zoo before page 7....
L.F.L.: “That's Women for You’'
—and you can have them back.
R.S.: Just a glimpse of
OUR NURSES
It started in the Crimean war,
where men were cruelly slain,
they died upon the battle, field,
in agony and pain.
a noble brave english woman,
named Horence nightengale,
decided that such frightfulness,
no longer should prevail.
so she led a group of nurses,
to serve in army camp,
she is known in history as,
the lady with the lamp.
and now, there are many thousand,
who, like miss nightengale,
that attend the sick and wounded,
also the weak and frail.
....“D.”: “I have written a poem
and I have named it ‘So Far Apart.’
It's about the City in comparison
with the Country. I think it's all
right. So could you print it in
the next edition of The Bulletin
if you think it’s good enough.”
All right: —
The old brick houses, that line the
city streets.
Or the beautiful parks, with their
ever pleasing seats.
The tall spires against a skyline of
smog.
The early morning mists and fog.
The country doesn’t experience the
beauty and hardship of the
city life.
Nor the music of the drum and the
fife.
’Tis hot in the country most of
the year around.
But ’tis easy to go through life
there without a frown.
. ...L.G.B.: Yes, all the characters
in your story are fictitious....
. ...P.R.: Getting your characters
into jail won’t get you anywhere.
. ...J.N.: She got a fright in the
1920s, so perhaps she has got over
it now. . ..A.R.: Sorry A.E.:
No stories about twins and their
husbands making mistakes... .J. 0.:
It’s funny; a story that opens in
the suburbs with some simple gar-
dening scene almost invariably ends
in murder W.J.T.: Too sweet
for words... .E. 0.: No heartbreak-
ing idiots... .A.W.: Well, think of
that. .. . D.McK.: It must have been
great fun... .J.R.T.: No dream-
girls... .J.8.P.: It might have been
a good story in those days.V.
G. 8.: Unnecessary violence....
A.W.J.: "The story of a black man
and a black woman before any
white men visited Australia"—who's
going to cheek it? A. 8.: Far
too ingenious A.G.: No class-
room stories G.M.A.: Well, if
the Dutch bought it. ...B.O.:
Muddled life shouldn't make a
muddled story R.L.W.: No
spiritualism .... M. 8.: Too short to
have a point.... R.D.: Your
narrator took vour hero too
seriously... .PC.:' Much too
embarrassing.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 641
Across
I—Peevish chicken production? (5-5)
s—More than half of any Rue de Roy Rene. (4)
9 12-across is out of order—fail to follow the rules! (6)
10— A short sausage girl starts a treeless plain in Dixie. (8)
13—Contemporary novelist who shows less than meagre
energy. (6)
13—Headgear open in the middle. (5)
15 — A German of 500 has been in a
Victorian centre. (8)
16 — It may spin the head of Mar-
garet. (6)
19— Port which could make me
balk. (6)
20 — Swallow no backward French
conductor. (8)
22 — Nothing colored this operatic
fool. (5)
23 — Lands the broken teaset. (6)
25 — They start sinks. (8)
26 — Post-office pests in the law. (6)
27 — Snatch for air fuel on the
piano. (4)
28 — Some agree N.S.W. ardor is too
much for the turf. (10)
Down
1— —New South Welshman giving a
pedicurist lecture? (9)
2 Has snow drifted. (4)
3 Argus dome lands in confec-
tionery. (7, 7)
4 Search for one drink after
another. (6)
6 Supremely powerful, he leaves
home with some Japanese ring
on canvas shelter. (10)
7 Giggle though all het-up over
topless 13-across. (5)
8 — Would Waterloo, London, be
one of these? (6, 8)
11 —All turned up to be A beautiful
girl. (5)
14 —Boundaries of class drill must be
spoken of. (5, 5)
17— Correspondent who is shut up
one short day of the week-
end. (3. 6)
18 — Says Thais is confused. (5)
21 — Porter sets Teddy ahead of Lilli-
bet. (6)
22 — -Sit up on the hind legs and ask
about the little Foreign Office
cloud. (5)
24 —Some of its architecture is
inclined to be a factor in cal-
culating the circle state. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 640


s
*»
¥
'X;::
808 (BP PICK-A-BOX) DYER SAYS . . .
-
it
nn
BP
TRACTOR FUELS and
ENERGOL LUBRICANTS
-* > * . . "V..; ' 'V. / . v :
used and proved all over the world
• BP PETROLS containing BENZOL • BP DIESOLEUM
• BP POWER KEROSINE • BP ENERGOL TRACTOR OIL UNIVERSAL
• A full range of BP ENERGOL oils • BP ENERGREASE
AVAILABLE FROM YOUR LOCAL BP AGENT
