

The Bulletin
and The Observer
Price 1/.-
THE MARRIAGE GUIDANCE BOOM
‘ n Australia for transmission by post a« a newspapsr.
The Publishing:
Bonanza, 1961
Asian
Trouble-spots
Hal Porter
Short Story


mm
•X ■*>
...
■&>
ate:
IP
V*
W 8
If
i§
«
m
/
Mi
sis
Ht
<■
?v
#
*5
£cc&m
V
TRAINED WOOL STAFF
IS AT YOUR SERVICE
From the sheep’s back to the Show Floor, wool-
growers can depend on Elders complete- and
efficient organisation which has for over 120
years been developed to cover all phases of the
marketing of Wool.
You can be sure that your wool will be displayed
to advantage in all major selling centres of Aus-
tralia under the best conditions. With a network
of 200 Branches and nine large and well lighted
Wool Stores throughout Australia, Elders are well
equipped to handle all aspects of business for
the “Man on the Land.”
One bag or 1,000
bates receive the
same attention
from Elders
trained wool staff.
ELDER,SMITH & CO., LIMITED
Elders complete Service to the Man on the Land covers Wool Broking, Livestock, Merchandise ,
Travel, Chartering, Insurance, Property, Rural Finance, Skin and Hides.
ADELAIDE, fERTH, ALBANY, MELBOURNE, GEELONG, SYDNEY,
NEWCASTLE, GOULBURN, BRISBANE, LONDON


'HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street
Sydney: Box 2521: Phone • 27 “SO 7 /
The
Bulletin
JUNE 24, 1961
Vol. 82
No. 4245
ANSWERS TO
CONTRIBUTORS
M.M.: “M igra n t” nearly
arrived. . . .L.W.P.: Hardly a ripple
in “Elizabeth 8ay”.... M.M.
(Tasmania): Use a natural, modern
language. . R.J.F.: Well, it was
an accident... . J.P.D : Sorry;
can’t help H.C.: A pleasing
dream ; but private. ... V.G.W.:
You tread a well-worn path. . .
R.H.C.. A long way to a pretty
frail joke E. 8.: Really! Your
rhymes!... .C.E.R.: Try it else-
where for next Mother's Day... .
M L.: Come ag a i n.... M.H.:
Think them over more. What's the
sense of such a line as “The judg-
ment of this court is prone to
find” ?.... 8.E.: “Sonnet” the
nearest —though it’s not a sonnet.
....M. O. Croswell (Low Head
Lighthouse, East Tamar, Tas.):
Let’s have a bit of it:
THE MEN ON WATCH
We watch them come, we watch them go,
Those ships at sea, both fast and slow.
Name each of them, in storm or fog,
It simply must go in the log.
Now we hear a high-pitched hum,
Louder far than a steady thrum;
She’s miles off yet, out in the Straits,
No need to look, it’s Margaret Twaits.
Here comes one from Sydney Town.
To us she is of great renown.
“Now careful, boys, don’t give a grin,
For surely ’tis the Dob-’em-in.”
Taroona sails with stately grace,
She’d win by far if in a race.
Then all at once she turns about,
There’s fog upstream without a doubt.
John Franklin used to bring our mails,
Now it is to “King” she sails;
But those past days are gone, for this
Was when we called her Hit and Miss.
Leederry is our pet of all,
She’s neat and trim, with masts so tall;
And as she enters, lowers sail,
There’ll come a ring, it’s Mr Dale.
Sheerwater, Tatana, and Prion, too,
Here comes a Jap, Asanami Maru,
While near the Island, we’re ready to
vouch,
That grey three-master is Jillian Crouch.
So it goes by day and night,
Large and small, they pass the light,
And as they start to crest the swell,
One and all, we wish them well.
WHY?
Porter’s the Word
H al PORTER, whose short story, “Miss Rodda”, appears in this issue,
first had a short story published in The Bulletin in 1937 , though we
did not hear much from him after that until about six or seven years ago.
Since then we have been publishing his stories fairly regularly, and a
volume of stories which will include many Bulletin ones will be pub-
lished by Angus & Robertson later this year. His followers claim it will be
sophisticated beyond anything that has ever been published in Australia,
unique in style, brilliant in characterisation, varied in scene and attack,
and, in the words of one enthusiast, “it may well have the effect of the
first publication of, say, a set of Chopin’s Preludes”.
But sophistication apart, the most obvious way, though it is not in
itself very important, in which he stands among Australian short-story
writers is his extraordinary vocabulary: it is not only far wider than any
other Australian prose writer’s but it often leaves Bulletin sub-editors
stumped. It’s a common thing for the sub. to be just about to delete some
word on the assumption that it’s a mistake or a mis-spelling when a quick
check with the dictionary shows that Porter has again correctly used some
almost unheard-of word. But this is to give the wrong impression. His
main characteristic is not verbosity but precision.
He is also a connoisseur of dialect and intonation and enjoys locating
the distinctions in language between class and class, State and State. (In
private conversation he is an expert mimic.) His short stories often
read like attacks on his characters those who read, for example, his
“Vulgar’s the Word” in The Bulletin, May 17, will know what this
means —and the crises are often the point where his people lose face.
H IS precision of detail and carefully mannered prose sometimes have the
intensity of poetry and when he does write poetry —his book of verse,
“The Hexagon”, was published in 1957—his language occasionally enters
such a rare atmosphere that some people cannot follow him. One unkind
critic described it as “full of bric-a-brac and rococo elaboration where
phrases are quartzed and quincunxed and quizzed into quodlibets of
flapdoodle.” But this did not stop him being editor of “Australian Poetry
1957”. His critics found the same fault and over-dazzling glitter in
his novel, “A Handful of Pennies” (1958), which was about the army of
Occupation in Japan.
His other forthcoming book is a novel about Wainewright the
poisoner—“ The Tilted Cross”, to be published by Faber in September with
a cover by Sidney Nolan. He tied this deal up when he was in England
last year on a Commonwealth Literary Fund Fellowship. On his first
Fellowship in 1956 he travelled widely in Australia.
At the Who’s Who level he was born in Albert Park, Melbourne, in
1917 and grew up mainly around Bairnsdale. He became a teacher at
State schools and later in Adelaide, Hobart and Sydney.
His personal experience is probably as wide as the themes of his
stories: while he was in Hobart he saved Australia’s oldest theatre from
being torn down and directed it for a while as the National Theatre; while
he was in Melbourne he managed a hotel for nine months. His next story
to appear in The Bulletin is “Say To Me Ronald!” about the attempts
of an Asian student to entertain his school-teacher.


This Australia
TOBACCO
Dumping: a Cool
£1.5 Million
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
C. B. NOBLE
“Nu inferior leaf”
'T'he boom has burst for Victoria’s
tobacco - growers, not with a bang,
but with the steady roar of trucks taking
bales of unsold, unwanted tobacco from
the auction rooms in Kensington and
Footscray back to the rich Ovens and
Murray Valleys which nurtured it. The
boomeranging tobacco is worth about
£150,000 and to the State’s 1200 growers
the collapse of the market is sheer
disaster, with the added call of voices
saying “We told you so . .
No industry, probably not even public
relations, can match the growth of
tobacco-growing in Australia over recent
years. An estimate issued in April put
this year’s crop at 15,500 tons, nearly
50 per cent, up on last year’s, and more
than double the 7000 tons produced two
years ago. At this rate, experts pointed
out, by 1963 we would be growing more
tobacco than local smokers could puff.
Chances of exports were nil, for the
reason that this is about the dearest
tobacco produced anywhere in the world.
Victoria accounts for about 30 per
cent, of the output of this lusty infant
industry, with most of its growers located
within a 30-mile radius of Myrtleford,
where the State Agriculture Department
operates a tobacco research station.
Year by year the acreage of tobacco
sown has expanded rapidly as Austra-
lians and Italians (sometimes in share
partnership) cashed in on the booming
market for local leaf. In recent years
Myrtleford has banked £3 million
annually from the crop. The horizon
seemed unlimited and enthusiasm began
to spread to areas less well endowed
than Myrtleford. At Yackandandah last
October, a local man needed £3OOO to
seed 20 acres with tobacco. He appealed
for support to the town’s businessmen
and raised the money within three
minutes. Victorian production in 1956-57
was 1400 tons, rising to 1850 tons a year
later and to 2450 tons in 1958-59. Last
year it was 4000 tons and fetched £4.5
million, while a few weeks ago growers
were rubbing their hands at the prospect
of getting £6 million for their crop.
Underpinning the bonanza was the
obligation imposed by the Federal Gov-
ernment on cigarette and tobacco manu-
facturers to use increasing amounts of
local leaf, under penalty of losing rebates
of duty on imported tobacco. Cigarettes
at present on the market contain 28£
per cent, of Australian leaf, but next
July the figure fixed by the Common-
wealth is 35 per cent. As from July,
1962, it will be 43. Earlier this year
there were warnings of trouble ahead. Mr
T. V. Gilmore, chairman of the Queens-
land Tobacco Leaf Marketing Board,
suggested that urgent action was needed
to save the industry from rushing head-
long into overproduction. Then Roth-
man’s announced in May that it would
only buy types and grades which met its
standards, warning that this could mean
that a lot of lower-grade leaf would be
left unsold.
But to Mr W. J. McGuffie, president
of the Victorian Tobacco Growers’
Association, there were no problems in
sight. Early in June he predicted a £6
million cheque for the Victorian crop
and waxed rhapsodic over its quality.
“The sweetness has been enhanced by
long periods of sunshine,” he said.
When the Melbourne sales opened on
June 6, with 1500 bales on offer, prices
averaged 96.8 d. per lb. compared with
the average of 136 d. at last year’s Vic-
torian sales. Next day the famous Ovens
Valley leaf was offered and about 33
per cent, went unsold. Mr McGuffie
stood by dismayed as his own offering
from his Buffalo River fields failed to
reach its reserve price of 132 d. Last year
Mr McGuffie had got 175 d. After two
days the growers halted the sales. From
Sydney came a statement from Mr C. B.
Noble, a director of W. D. and H. O.
Wills, rubbing salt into the wounds: “We
want good Australian leaf and will buy
all we can, but we will not use inferior
leaf in our products wherever it may
come from.”
When sales were resumed on June 12,
the over-the-bale system introduced for
the first time was dropped. Tobacco was
formerly sold in Victoria in the same
way as wool—from a catalogue after pre-
auction appraisal by buyers. Under the
over-the-bale system (used in Queens-
land) buyers do not see the leaf until
they stand before the bale with the
auctioneer. Flere they take some leaf,
rub it between their hands, sniff it, and
make their bids within a few seconds.
The return to the old system brought
no improvement in prices. Again, a lot
went unsold.
This week there will be no sales in
Melbourne. It is a rest period for buyers
and a good chance for growers to ponder
over the plight of their industry and the
loss they face of £1,500,000.
PRESS
Mo Love in the Afternoon
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
'The just-released, latest, Audit Bureau
of Circulations report underlines the
continuing problem of the Australian
afternoon newspaper: how to stop the
downward drift in circulation brought on
by the rapid growth of television in
metropolitan Australia. The report shows
that in the period from September, 1956.
to March, 1961, the two Sydney after-
noon papers lost almost 60,000 audited
sales each day. The report also shows
that Melbourne’s only evening paper, the
“Herald,” has lost 11,000 sales in the last
six months. Oniy in Perth has a
metropolitan evening paper increased its
sales in the last six months and it is
interesting that Perth, unlike the four
other cities served by city afternoon
papers, has but one commercial TV
licence.
This drop in afternoon readership must
also be considered in relation to the
steady growth of the principal Austra-
lian morning papers. In Sydney, the only
city where two afternoon papers are
published, sales of the “Sun” dropped
3500 from 267,752 to 264,196. The
“Sun’s” former team-mate, the “Daily
Mirror,” also lost 2500 sales in this
period, falling from 259,322 to 256,733.
These drops in themselves may seem
small when isolated but when measured
against their 1956 circulations they
assume more ominous proportions. In
September, 1956, the audited circulation
G f the “Sun” was 320,829 while that of
the “Mirror” was 318,073. This makes
the slump in circulation for both papers
almost 60,000 in less than five years,
, n comparison , the circu ] at i o „ of the
two morning papers has been relatively
_ u ,„ , • , „
St f Jhe current audited circulation
° f the Dail 7 Telegraph is 324 000 and
shows an increase ot 8000 from its
September, 1956, audited circulation of
316,000 while that of the “Sydney Morn-
in 8 Herald,’ which does not belong to
the Audit Bureau of Circulations, shows
that its circulation for the three months
ended March 31, 1961, was 305,000 as
opposed to its announced circulation ot
310,000 in September, 1956.
In Melbourne the situation is slightly
different. The impregnable Melbourne
“Herald” shows a decline from sales of
464,100 in September, 1960, to 452,924
in March, 1961, a drop of 11,000 in six
short months. However, in September,
1956, the circulation of the “Herald”


stood at 448,005, so despite this recent
drop the current figure still represents
an overall increase of 4000 since 1956.
The Melbourne “Sun Pictorial” added
another effortless 2000 to its circulation,
lifting it to 564,132. The “Sun’s” circula-
tion has risen by 109,000 since Septem-
ber, 1956, but the death of the “Argus”
added substantially to its circulation
overnight. The “Age”—the only paper
in Australia to complain about an in-
crease in circulation—continues to sell
165,000 and has maintained this figure
without variation for the last 18 months.
The “Melbourne Herald’s” Queensland
subsidiary, the Brisbane “Telegraph,” also
shows an increase of 3000 over the A\-
year period since September, 1956,
although its sales too have dropped by
5000 in the last six months to its current
audited circulation of 155,977. Although
Brisbane’s morning newspaper, the
“Courier Mail,’’ has dropped a little over
1000 sales in the last circulation period
to 232,277 this still represents an increase
of 14,000 since September, 1956.
Mr Rupert Murdoch’s much-vaunted
Adelaide evening paper, the “News,” has
dropped 3000 from 115,940 to 112,714
while the morning “Advertiser” has
added 1500 sales to take its circulation
to 184,794 in the same period. The net
gain to the “Advertiser” since September,
1956, is in excess of 11,000.
Undoubtedly, one of the reasons why
the Sydney afternoon newspapers have
suffered more than their interstate con-
temporaries is the rough and ready com-
petition in the afternoon field in Sydney.
When assessing the relative stability of
the Melbourne “Herald” over the last
five years and the sharp drop in the
circulations of the two Sydney after-
noon papers the increase in the metro-
politan population of Melbourne must
also be considered.
There is also a considerable body of
opinion in Sydney which maintains that
the abolition of the tram as a method
of public transport has not helped the
sales of afternoon papers. It is certainly
much harder to read a paper in a jolted,
crowded bus than it was in a more com-
fortable and comparatively less crowded
tram. However, accepting this, one would
assume that this would have an equal
effect on the sales of morning papers in
the same city. This is not supported by
the figures and one is led to conclude that
allowing for a decrease in the amount
of newspapers bought and read in trams
and buses some newspaper readers
have adjusted their reading in the morn-
ing but not in the afternoon. Whether
the intensity of television viewing will
decline in a few years time and cause a
revival of afternoon newspaper circula-
tions is at this stage mere conjecture.
REFUGEES
A Sombre
Saturday
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
N. MANNIX
The night of June 13
Tn the trim Sydney suburb of Strathfield
last Saturday afternoon, some Aus-
tralians were playing bowls, some were
drinking in pubs, and some were garden-
ing. But 600 New Australians, mostly
Estonians, Latvians, and Lithuanians were
remembering. June is the month chosen
for this annual commemoration of the
enslavement of their countries by the
Soviet Union. It was on the night of
June 13, for example, that the biggest
deportation of Latvians to Siberia began.
In two days 15,600 people, including
1877 schoolchildren and 1188 children
under six, were carried in barred cattle-
trucks for eight days to central and
northern Siberia. In the years from
1944-50, at least 290,000 Latvians have
been “liberated” by the Russians, and
those still alive are “joyfully” working
in prison camps.
Dressed in their national costumes the
three groups sang songs and recited poems
in English and their native languages.
On the stage were draped their three flags ;
a cross symbolising the death of freedom ;
and hanging across the stage was barbed
wire—a grim reminder of the life of their
peoples now under Soviet rule.
Official guests at this sombre concert
included Mr N. Mannix, the N.S.W.
Minister for Justice, Mr Doig, the Liberal
member for Burwood, and representatives
from the Assembly of Captive European
Nations. The main address, heard in
silence, was by Dr V. Doniela, a
Lithuanian who has been in Australia
since 1948, and is now lecturing in
philosophy at Newcastle University
College.
Dr Doniela quietly told the audience
that there seemed to be an incapacity in
the West to understand the nature of
Communism. Most Australians thought
of it as just another political attitude —
some people were Liberals, some were
Labor, and some were Communists. “The
worst enemy of freedom was ideological
ignorance. One wishes that President
Kennedy knew more about Communist
ideology.” Dr Doniela concluded by
saying that while some people believed
that in history justice and freedom would
eventually triumph over tyranny and
fraud, he was not so sure: “History is
nothing but what people themselves do.”
TOURISM
“Dili-dallying”
FROM K. G. WILLEY IN DARWIN
"Portuguese Timor is only one-and-a-
half hours’ flying time from Darwin.
It is a charming old-world colony, with
charming old-world people. Its scenery
is beautiful, its Lisbon wines are magni-
ficent, and the natives would seem to
enjoy nothing better than doing folk-
dances for tourists. With such a para-
dise practically on their doorsteps,
Darwin visitors have naturally been
flowing there in increasing numbers.
But behind the scenes all has not been
well. And some days ago the dirty linen
was finally scrubbed before the Darwin
public. The Darwin tourist agent, Max
Grants, claimed that “Dili-dallying” (the
capital of Portuguese Timor is named
Dili) had cost him over £2OOO. He
wanted to sue the Timor Government,
but had received legal advice that
although he could serve a writ for
damages on a sovereign State, the State
could plead “privilege.”
It all began when he visited Timor last
August. The tourist potential struck
him immediately and he put a proposition
to Senhor Jose Ricardo, the jovial pro-
prietor of the hotel at Baucau, in the
mountains inland from Dili. Senhor
Ricardo was enthusiastic and introduced
Mr Grants to Senhor D. R. C. Braga,
then Chief of Cabinet in Dili. Senhor
Braga was also enthusiastic and intro-
duced Mr Grants to the Governor.
The Portuguese officials arranged for
Senor Ricardo to come to Darwin with
Mr Grants and watch the launching of
the publicity campaign. “I worked hard
and spent a lot of money,” said Mr
Grants, a fine bush pilot, well known
throughout the inland, who formerly ran
an air charter company from Mt Isa.
At a public reception Senhor Ricardo
had congratulated Mr Grants on his
“dynamism” and kissed him. “In public,”
Mr Grants added.
There were more trips to Timor and
more conferences. Grants claims Senhor
Braga agreed to pay a substantial sum
on every tourist to visit Timor from
Darwin. On the strength of that he set
up the “South Seas Travel Agency” and
spent “many hundreds” on publicity.
Then the rot set in.
“Lots of tourists but no money,” Mr
Grants mourned. “I got nowhere.”
Finally he flew to Timor to have it out.
He says he found Senhor Braga “most
obliging” and the Portuguese asked him
to continue publicity. Which he did. But
still the promised money failed to arrive.
Mr Grants’s baffling experiences have
a parallel with the trouble the Darwin
Soccer Association had a couple of years
ago. The Portuguese agreed to send a
soccer team to play in Darwin. But the
months dragged on, dates were changed,
letters to Dili went unanswered. Finally,
after eight exasperating months, the
Darwin soccer chiefs called quits. There
was a sequel when a Darwin journalist,
who chronicled the strange proceedings
under the title “Dili-Dallying Stops
Soccer,” was pronounced persona non
grata and barred from visiting the island.


ABORIGINES
VD
on the Mission
FROM GEORGE FARWELL IN ADELAIDE
G. PEARSON
“Take some action”
r T~'HE discovery of two children infected
with VD at a River Murray primary
school has reopened some old scars
caused by past failures to do anything
to improve the conditions of aborigines
and mixed bloods throughout South
Australia.
The children belonged to a group of
25 who daily travel by bus to the Winkie
school from the Gerard Mission, near
the fruit-growing town of Berri. Though
they were one and all ordered to stay
home till further notice, it was subse-
quently explained by the superintendent
of the United Aborigines Mission that
only two children were infected. On
the other hand, the Director-General of
Public Health, Dr P. S. Woodruff,
announced that official blood tests made
during previous weeks had revealed a
high incidence of VD among adults at
the mission.
The cause of the trouble, it was said
locally, was due to the pathetic efforts at
“assimilation” so far permitted by the
community. Contact with whites amounts
to no more than illegally supplying grog
to the males and casual cohabitation
with the females —mostly by itinerant
fruit pickers. Though the U.A.M. mission
is tucked away on a remote bend of the
river, this contact has been made much
easier since the S.A. Government re-
pealed a consorting clause for abori-
gines from the Police Offenders’ Act
in 1959. This was strongly opposed at
the time by the Aborigines Protection
Board.
But the real trouble goes back much
further. When the U.A.M. acquired 5000
acres of potentially good farming land
from the Gerard family some 10 years
ago on Winkie Bend, ambitious plans
were worked out for making this a self-
supporting settlement that would also
inspire Christian ideals among the previ-
ously dispossessed aborigines. But the
inter-denominational U.A.M. was not
equipped for the job: it did not have
enough money.
By 1957 some 80 people, including
children, had been gathered from shacks
and humpies along the river only to find
themselves living in similar slum condi-
tions at the mission. Though the U.A.M's
secretary, Pastor L. J. Samuels, issued a
public statement to “correct some of the
untruths” and said every inmate was
housed, the local M.P., Mr King, said
next day that the Gerard family was dis-
appointed at the failure of their original
ideas and asked the Minister of Works,
Mr Pearson, to take some action.
The Minister replied that an offer was
being made through the Aborigines Pro-
tection Board to assist with housing and
physical care, leaving the mission free
to look after the spiritual side of things.
A year later, heartened by an annual
grant of £5OOO, Pastor Samuels declared
that “a great spiritual revival was taking
place.” But less than 12 months later
the mission superintendent reported
officially in the Government's Blue Book
that “drinking and immorality ran rife
among the native people. Apart from
the spiritual need, the greatest was
finance to put people to work.”
These issues coincided with a further
exposure of appalling and insanitary con-
ditions at the U.A.M's Colebrook Home
for children in Adelaide, where improve-
merits were later initiated by the local
Junior Chamber of Commerce. The
Blue Book also reported that the local
hospital had treated 345 out-patients and
67 in-patients from Gerard mission-
out of a population of 87! (The nature
of these ailments was not made clear,
though in previous years they had been
largely attributed to gastro-enteritis and
malnutrition.)
For some years the Aborigines Depart-
ment has been wanting to take over this
mission (existing legislation gives them
no say whatever in the treatment of
aborigines in non-government care), but
the Playford Government has been tight
with money for social services. So far
the only humane efforts to help these
neglected and workless inmates on
Winkie Bend has come from local people
around Berri who last year formed an
Upper Murray Association for Abori-
ginal Welfare.
They produced an imaginative five-
year plan for irrigating 100 acres of
river flats for dairying and fruit-growing
at a cost of £BO,OOO. But the money can-
not be found. It is now rumored that
the Government may at last act and offer
to take over the mission from the
U.A.M. Hitherto Playford has always
been cagey about “interference” with
religious bodies—but there is a growing
conviction that it will need far more than
blood tests and bible classes to give these
aborigines a foothold for the future.
COMMUNIST CONGRESS
At
60 Sussex Street
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
R. DIXON
Still sick in Moscow
A pproximately 170 Communists, in-
eluding two aborigines, met at 60
Sussex Street, Sydney, in the branch
offices of the Waterside Workers’ Federa-
lion, during the Queen’s birthday week-
end to hold the 19th Congress of the
Australian Communist Party. Their par y
cards were thorough y screened by party
bureaucrats oefore they were admitted.
Dunng the day no delegates were
allowed to leave the premises. At night,
to outfox the Security police who were
possibly waiting outside they filtered
gradually away from the Federation s
offices at a late hour.
Mr R. Dixon, the President, who is
still sick in Moscow, was re-elected, and
Mr Lance Sharkey remains as Secretary.
Mr L. Aarons retains his key position on
the party’s Federal Secretariat, but gained
in power and prestige whilst the Congress
was sitting. Mr J. Hughes, the N.S.W.
State Secretary, is to concentrate on
building up party strength in the steel
industry. The leadership of the Federated
Ironworkers’ Association, in particular its
Secretary, Mr Laurie Short, is to be sub-
jected to more intensive attacks from
“the progressive forces.”
The c devoted a lot of it s time
to h sign f ficance of the meeling of the
s| Com “ lunis , ties in Mosc ° ow last
october , h f „ movement and
subsidi themes L the th of state-
capitalism; the Crimes Act;
and £ t ,/ cks
on the Australian Labor
pa According to the “Tribune" of
Jun / u , he c * n ‘> d i sp | ayed the
h ; ghest vel o£ uni f jn its discussions.”
in its editorja| of |he , same date , the party
contrasts the “unity” of its own Con-
gress with that of the N.S.W. State Con-
ference of the A.L.P. where “there was
conflict and intrigue.” Lance Sharkey,
in the June issue of the party’s theoreti-
cal journal, “Communist Review,” says:
“Party building is an important issue.
Rejecting false theories of ‘joining the
A.L.P. to convert it into a revolutionary
party,’ we Communists know very well


*-
-M COMMON MARKET
J HO TtfFSPASS/NG
f T r
m %
VV.WX '1
£
K
i
E
£
<3
V
*
*
4-
<r
f
✓
w
THE EUROPEAN COMMON MARKET
Mr Macmillan: “Of course we’ll consult Australia —afterwards.”
that the way to influence the A.L.P.
membership is to build a more powerful
Communist party.”
Unity, peace, anti-Americanism, and
attacks on the A.L.P. were again dwelt
longingly on by Comrade Laurie Aarons
in a room at Sydney’s Trades and Labor
Council during a meeting last Friday
night. Roughly 250 people laughed and
clapped at appropriate moments while
Comrade Aarons attacked the Australian
capitalists ; Mr L. Short, “a Grouper and
fellow-traveller of the D.L.P.”; Mr
Chifley, for his attempt to nationalise the
banks —“the best way of developing
capitalism in Australia”; The Bulletin,
for attempting to disrupt the unity of the
working class.
As a result of the Congress's decisions,
Australians can expect increased activity
and propaganda from Communist-front
“peace” movements, such as the Com-
mittee Against Foreign Military Bases in
Australia ; more attacks on SEATO and
other Australian military alliances;
greater anti-American propaganda, par-
ticularly on any American bases here ;
more strikes in the steel industry—-
especially where unions like the A.E.U.
and the Boilermakers are concerned;
greater campaigning for Indonesian
claims over West New Guinea ; and
probably the stepping up of agitation
among Australian aborigines. Mr
Aarons told the audience on Friday
night: “We don’t pull our punches.”
FINANCE
Share
Hawkers
FROM A BRISBANE CORRESPONDENT
Australia may be on the verge of
producing uniform company laws
designed to protect, as far as possible,
fools and their money. Talks have taken
place between Ministers from all States
along these lines, the target for attack
being unscrupulous share salesmen and
“phony” companies in the particular
spheres of vending, land development
and mining. In Queensland this week
the Government appointed an Auditor-
General’s inspector to probe the activities
of one land speculation company, and
Justice Minister Alan Munro is finalis-
ing his share of an all-States move for
drastic amending legislation in the next
Parliamentary session.
For months in Queensland now the
activities of share-hawkers in land de-
velopment and mining have been sub-
jected to a violently critical campaign
by the Sunday “Truth,” which has col-
lected a mountain of writs said to be in
the vicinity of £200,000. The Govern-
ment has preserved a discreet silence on
the matter, but is believed to have been
impressed with the necessity to provide
stiffer penalties for misrepresentation and
so on. The former Federal Treasurer,
Sir Arthur Fadden, once commented on
the near hopelessness of legislation as a
means of keeping fools and their money
together, but legislators in all States now
seem to be feeling ambitious . . .


LAND
From Suite 13
to the Delta
FROM A BRISBANE CORRESPONDENT
W. G. WALKLEY
“Rich and loamy”
One of the reporters sitting in Suite 13
of Lennon’s Hotel, Brisbane, looked
at his watch for the fifth time. He was
bored. He stood up to go and it was
obvious that the press conference was
about to break up. Then Mr Walkley,
of Ampol, said, almost off-handedly:
“Oh, there is something else I'd like to
mention.”
It was a bombshell. He told the dozing
reporters that Ampol proposed to take
up land in the fertile but salty Fitzroy
and Burdekin River deltas and reclaim
it by diking the seaward approaches and
damming the river-sides. It could sup-
port 1,000,000 people, he said. A simi-
lar action had been taken by the A.M.P.
Society when it had reclaimed land in
the Ninety-Mile Desert.
If the plans work, there would be a
market for the increasing production of
the petroleum companies in Queensland
—Phillips, Amoco and Mr Walkley’s
Ampol.
The deltas are both rich, loamy soil
areas with immense potential for develop-
ment if only the land can be desalinised
and enclosed. High sea tides continually
flood the deltas and leave salt ; and in
summer they are flooded by the rivers
themselves. Experts say the position is
similar to the old one of Holland’s
Zuider Zee salt marsh fringe lands
which could be reclaimed ; but in this
case the lands would then be capable
of fattening thousands of head of cattle
a year and providing other possibilities
for crop production. Because the prob-
lems of reclamation are similar to those
experienced by the Dutch, Ampol pro-
poses to bring over Dutch engineers and
scientists.
Professor R. H. Greenwood, Professor
of Geography at the University of
Queensland, told The Bulletin that
anywhere else in the world such land
would already be under intense cultiva-
tion. The deltas in Queensland’s case
are particularly valuable as they are
close to roads, railways and growing
towns. The professor had touched on
the delta proposal early last month when
he read a paper on the potential develop-
ment of north Queensland to an Aus-
tralian Institute of Management con-
ference at Townsville, and he afterwards
discussed the Fitzroy and Burdekin
potentials at length with Mr Walkley, one
of the guest speakers at the conference.
Professor Greenwood was obviously
pleased to hear the proposals, but he
warned him that reclamation would be
costly, though the problems were no
greater than the Dutch had overcome
many years ago. According to Green-
wood both areas, particularly the Fitzroy
delta, could be just as productive if
their soils are desalinised.
Mr Walkley, at his press conference
(after he had run reporters through a
discussion of the Test, the Fijian foot-
ballers, the Stradbroke) had said this
might be accomplished by stopping the
seaward flooding and using the summer
time river floods to leach salt from the
topsoil. He felt that a surface grass could
then be grown for beef fattening but
not any deep grasses or subterranean
clover whose roots would reach the
salinised sub-soil. As a pointer to this,
a C.5.1.R.0. research station in the
Burdekin delta had recently grown far
above average crops of peas, beans, and
tomatoes on an experimental area.
Three weeks ago at the A.N.Z.A.A.S.
congress, a Queensland scientist predicted
an eventual population for his home
State equal to that of the rest of Aus-
tralia. This was based on the belief that
Queensland had the greatest land
development potential of any State. Now
follows Mr Walkley’s proposal, and last
week members of the Italian Economic
Trade Mission arrived with word that
they were looking for very big land
reclamation projects for Italian concerns
to undertake. The Italians said they
would advise Ital-Consult Ltd., which
specialised in co-ordinated agricultural-
industrial projects on a huge scale to
send another mission consisting of tech-
nical experts to give the State the once-
over.
With this latest announcement of land
reclamation, the feverish activity of the
petroleum companies, the extensive road-
works being undertaken, Queensland is
showing every sign of becoming the
busiest State in Australia.
EDUCATION
The Industrial Fund
for Schools
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
industrialists’ alarm about the shortage
of scientists in Australia, and the dis-
quiet of educationists about the shortage
of science teachers, are both likely to be
eased within a few years by the huge
financial operations of the Industrial
Fund recently established for “the
advancement of scientific education in
schools/’
Pay-outs of £320,000 this year are
expected to provide 20 selected schools
in mainland States with facilities which,
beginning in 1962, will enable some of
these schools to undertake scientific
activity and research projects over and
above the basic demands of the science
curricula for secondary schools.
“One of the main objectives of the
fund is to close the difficult gap between
the study of science at the secondary and
tertiary levels,” the executive officer of
the fund, Mr A. G. T. Carver, tells The
Bulletin. And the fund’s chief adviser,
Mr L. C. Robson, former headmaster
of Sydney’s “Shore” school, says that
the operations of a similar fund in Eng-
land (established in 1957) have already
brought about greater eagerness and
willingness among young men there for
careers as science masters in schools.
The Australian fund, whose present
capital of £580,000 was donated or
promised by about 200 companies in the
first year since the fund’s formation, is
now finalising arrangements for financ-
ing new laboratories for most of the 20
schools invited to seek its assistance
during 1961. Three more schools —Syd-
ney Grammar School, Adelaide’s Scotch
College, and the Brisbane Boys’ College
-—have already been invited to seek the
fund’s assistance during 1962.
Because of some obvious difficulties
connected with helping State-financed
secondary schools, the fund is limiting its
interest at present to the 61 independent
boys’ schools represented in the Head-
masters’ Conference of Australia. An
estimated £1,200,000 is regarded as the
amount required to meet the needs of
all these schools, and raising that amount
is the fund’s immediate objective,
although the fund’s founders hope to be
able to assist selected girls’ schools later.
The basis on which the fund is willing
to assist the selected schools is that the
schools themselves will provide 20 per
cent, of the money needed to complete
the building plans which they first submit
to the fund for approval.
First indications of success in in-
creasing the number of science students
at the upper secondary levels are expected
to be noticeable during next year. In-
dications of an increase in young scientists
equipped to begin careers in industry are


expected to take several years longer—
if the operations of the corresponding
fund in England are taken as a guide.
The range of research projects being
undertaken by fund-assisted schools in
England is exceptionally wide, and the
advanced stages that science instruction
may reach in Australian secondary schools
are • suggested by the jobs that English
schools are now doing. There the current
research projects, 66 of them in 56
different schools, include problems as
widely diverse as the nervous system of
worms, seasonal variation in the repro-
ductive system of reptiles, the effects of
growth substances on the water uptake
of plant tissues, expansibility of plastics,
corrosion of lead, methods of using solar
radiation, pigmentation and structure of
the barbs of birds’ feathers, petrological
analysis of the Blackheath pebble beds,
vitamin B-12 in foods and diets, soil
aeration, radio astronomy, inhibition of
hydrocarbon oxidation by amines.
The Australian fund’s founders hope to
parallel this closing of the intimidating
gap between secondary and tertiary
science in Australia soon after the first
group of new fund-financed laboratories
are put to use in 1962.
“and how're things otherwise?"
POLITICAL POINTS
A Bombshell
in Queensland
By MUGGA
EDGAR WILLIAMS
“An aspidistra”
A/foderate trade unions dropped the
industrial bombshell of the year in
Brisbane last week with the formation of
a Combined Industrial Unions’ Commit-
tee. Fourteen trade unions took part
in the move and not one of them is
affiliated with the Communist-dominated
Trades and Labor Council. Only four
of them are affiliated with the Queensland
Central Executive of the A.L.P.
Heading the new group is the giant
A.W.U., the biggest union aspidistra of
them all, with a Queensland membership
of more than 70,000, under State
Secretary, Mr. Edgar Williams, and State
assets estimated to be in the vicinity of
£2 million.
The A.W.U. severed its connection with
the A.L.P. two years ago after the expul-
sion from the party of its president, the
late Mr R. J. J. (Joe) Bukowski, key figure
in the 1957 Labor split. In recent months
negotiations have been carried out on a
top level aimed at bringing the A.W.U.
back to the A.L.P. fold, and informed
union circles believed that the rapproche-
ment would take place next month.
Of the 60 delegates on the Q.C.E. more
than 40 belong to unions affiliated with
the Trades and Labor Council, with
which the A.W.U. traditionally has been
at loggerheads. T. and LC. leaders have
looked with a jaundiced eye at the
prospect of the A.W.U. rejoining the
A.L.P., fully aware of the dominant role
the big union could exert on the Q.C.E.
Left-wingers also appreciated the fact
that the A.W.U. could be followed back
into the Labor fold by other moderate
unions who have a keen antipathy to
the Trades Hall, thus wresting control
of the Labor machine from their hands.
Should this take place, determined
moves to end the Labor split in Queens-
land could be taken practically for
granted. Formation of the new union
group is now expected to strengthen Left-
wing opposition to re-admitting the
A.W.U., in which case the industrial
Labor cleavage in Queensland will be-
come at least as pronounced as the
political split.
The new group has been formed,
according to its sponsors, purely to pool
information for preparation and submis-
sion on Arbitration Court cases. Apart
from the A.W.U. it includes the powerful
Clerks’ Union, with a membership of
20,000, and claims in all to represent
140,000 workers. Left-wingers, however,
see in the new group the nucleus of the
powerful Right - wing unions who were
the backbone of the Industrial Group
movement.
Failure of moves to get the A.W.U. to
rejoin the party would* be a disastrous
blow to the A.L.P., which needs the
A.W.U. with its immense financial
resources and intricate State-wide organi-
sation to have any real show in a State
election.
Q.L.P. tacticians are watching moves
on both sides with something like bated
breath. So too, for different reasons, are
Liberal and Country party machine
executives, who realise that the Govern-
ment’s stocks are at low ebb in Queens-
land, and that its political future may
revolve around cleavages in Labor’s
ranks.


POLITICAL SECTS
The Republicans
Ride Again
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
DAWN FRASER
“I admire the Royal
Family”
T ATELY the Victorian Labor Party has
been favoring footballers—Australian
Rules variety—as parliamentary candi-
dates. Mr N. C. Beaton, for example,
who held the Federal seat of Bendigo for
the A.L.P. after the death of Mr P. J.
Clarey last year, had played in the local
team for several years, and this may have
tipped the scales for him in the close by-
election of last year.
No doubt this influenced the president
of the Australian Republican Party, Pro-
fessor A. R. Mullins, when he wrote to
the Olympic swimmer, Dawn Fraser, ask-
ing if she would stand on the party’s Vic-
torian Senate ticket. Not being well up
on politics, Miss Fraser seemed inclined
to take the offer seriously. “I haven’t
been interested in politics to a great
extent,” Miss Fraser said. “I would have
to have a talk about this with my swim-
ming coach, Harry Gallagher. I always
speak to him before I decide about any
offers.”
The offer was certainly not turned dowm
in haste A week passed before Miss
Fraser announced that she would not
stand on the A.R.P. ticket. She said she
understood that one of the party’s aims
was to do away with the Royal Family.
“I admire the Royal Family,” she said.
The Republican party made its debut
in 1958 when Professor Mullins and Mr
John Murray, a Prahran cartage contrac-
tor, stood as a team for the Senate. Mr
Murray, the party’s president, received
2749 votes and Professor Mullins 966,
Last year, Professor Mullins stood in the
Latrobe by-election which followed Lord
Casey’s retirement, again losing his
deposit.
The party, which must be unique in
Australia in not having a membership
fee. wants to sack the Governor-General
and all the State Governors. It would
also ban knighthoods and other titles and
redesign the Australian flag to eliminate
the Union Jack. It is not opposed to
Royal tours, but it thinks these should
be paid for by the British Exchequer.
Professor Arthur Richard Mullins, like
Professor Orr, has no chair. He is listed
in the phone book as an educational con-
sultant and in fact worked as a school
teacher. He considers that as a graduate
in arts, law' and commerce he is entitled
to call himself professor. He does not
however, insist on being addressed as
such.
UNIVERSITIES
Buried In
The Notices
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
A Melbourne University committee
is still inquiring into the University
Social Studies Department, but mean-
while a lively meeting was held recently
by the Social Studies Society. It arose
out of a letter which the society’s com-
mittee wrote to The Bulletin (May
18, 1961) attacking the first of The
Bulletin’s articles on the case. The
letter “deplored” the article, which it
described as “irresponsible,” “unverified
and “illogical.” It now turns out the
letter was written without the society’s
consent and did not represent the
opinions of the society, only of some
people on the executive. The meeting
finally adopted this statement:
The Committee of the Social Studies
Society wish to clarify their comments
on the recent Bulletin article. Due to
an error the letter was published in the
name of the Society instead of that of
the Committee. The Committee apologise
for any misunderstanding or incon-
venience which may have arisen from
the error. In such matters the Committee
recognise that they do not have the right
to speak in the name of the Society
vithout its consent.
One interesting thing is that although
The Bulletin, on principle, published
the executive’s original letter attacking
The Bulletin, the executive did not see
fit to send The Bulletin a copy of this
latest resolution. It does, however, app ear
on the department’s notice-board at the
University undated, unsigned, an
buried among general department
notices.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Reversing the Censorship Policies
By OBSERVER
The reputation of the Customs Depart-
ment has taken two further knocks
this week. The first was when it decided
to ban the importing of “The Trial of
Lady Chatterley,” the second was when
it required a formal undertaking from
Penguin Books Pty Ltd that D. J. West's
“Homosexuality” will not be sold openly
to the general public, “will not be dis-
played prominently for sale and will be
sold only to members of the medical
profession, psychoanalysts, university
students and such adult students as may
have a recognised position in the field
of physiological, psychological, social, or
educational research.”
The more serious of the two is of
course the ban on “The Trial of Lady
Chatterley.” The limitation on the
‘Homosexuality” is one of those absurdi-
ties that bureaucrats think up to give the
impression that a book is being con-
trolled when in fact by one means or
another absolutely anyone who wants
the book will be able to get it. All that
Customs has done is to give the book
a little extra free publicity which will
lead to a few more sales. But the ban
on “The Trial” means that, short of
Streaking the law', Australians will not
be able to read a balanced account of
the most famous obscenity trial since
these trials started in England with the
ban on Zola in the 1880’s. Though it
is a far more important book than
"Homosexuality” it does not even have
the privilege that that book has of being
freely available to lawyers. It is bad
enough to ban “Lady Chatterley’s
Lover,” but to ban the best available
discussion of the legal, social and moral
issues raised by the trial of the pub-
lishers of that book is to interfere with
a public examination of the Govern-
ment's decision and can only indicate
that the Government is afraid of such
a public examination.
The general point is that the Govern-
ment seems to have almost completely
abandoned its policy announced four
years ago at the time of the lifting of
the ban of J. D. Salinger’s “Catcher in
the Rye” of the complete liberal over-
haul of censorship.
The brave new policy did not last
l°ng. First, the citizen-children of Aus-
tralia were not allowed to read “Lolita”
or the English edition of “Borstal Boy.”
Then when Mr S. Murray Smith planned
t 0 contest the ban on “Borstal Boy” in
the courts and asked the Government
to follow the lead of the New Zealand
Government when its ban on “Lolita”
'jas contested, and waive costs (so that
“ he lost the case his financial loss would
, , ■ t . . ~ .
not be crippling) the Government re-
fured even hough it would have been
m line with the Government s policy to
have the issue tested in court. Finally
the policy of not banning any serious
book except on the recommendation of
he Censorship Board composed or
hberal-mmded and scholarly experts was
a andoned in the case of Lady Chat-
terleys Lover which the Board naturally
-y ed shoLild be freely available to the
P u IC '
There are two other aspects of this
ban on “The Trial of Lady Chatterley.”
One is that it is a more or less outright
invitation to Australians to break the
law, since very few will respect a law
which refuses them the right to read an
important book that is freely available
all over Britain and America. One can
expect a large increase in the number
of people who will try to smuggle the
book into the country by post or in
their luggage.
The second is that, as with “Lady
Chatterley’s Lover,” the book has been
banned under that regulation which
allows appeals to the court, not under
that regulation used to ban trashy books
where the Minister’s decision is final
and there is no appeal to the courts. In
other words the Government is again,
in effect, inviting a challenge in court.
Let us hope the invitation is accepted—
and that in the interests of justice and
fair play the Government will waive
costs.
The Disaster that
May Never Happen
npiANK heaven that reactions so far in
the West to Mr Khrushchev’s threats
over Berlin have been reasonably calm.
Perhaps the world’s hopes were exhausted
in the long round of summit diplomacy
that followed the last lot, and belief in
Mr Khrushchev as a serious negotiator
may have been destroyed by his pave-
ment performances in Paris last year.
This situation is even more serious than
it was then. Not only has Mr Khrush-
chev virtually threatened nuclear warfare
if he does not get his way in Berlin and
East Germany ; he has also virtually
destroyed the Geneva conference on a
treaty to ban nuclear weapons tests.
Even at the height of his tantrums last
time he let the Geneva conference run
on. Perhaps it was embarrassment at the
fact that Mr Kennedy (prompted by the
ever-prompting Mr Macmillan) made a
dozen important concessions this year
that made him wreck the whole thing by
suggesting that the nuclear tests treaty be
held over until there was agreement on
“general and complete disarmament’’
(which will be, roughly speaking, never).
All of this may sound all right in the
Moscow papers: to the rest of the world
Mr Khrushchev appears to have cynic-
ally changed the subject. He is not seek-
ing agreement on anything. He is simply
out to win.
Despite all this we have not yet done
anything silly. It may be the sheer
repetitiveness of the Berlin performance
that has helped people keep their nerve
this time. We have been through that one
before, and nothing happened ; perhaps
we can survive it again. There is one
real danger, however. Statesmen cannot
stay still. As well as panic, a kind of
smart-alecry can get into them which can
force them to whip up schemes when
doing nothing would be the wiser counsel.
Time and again statesmen did this with
Hitler. Not so much loss of nerve as an
excess of ingenuity sometimes embroiled
them in schemes and discussions that
ended in a display of weakness. It can
be a very successful technique for a bully
to put on a show and then see what drops
into his lap. The best thing to do for the
moment is to give firm replies to Khrush-
chev and otherwise do nothing. Mere
activity might get us into trouble, or at
least give him a false impression,
The most dangerous and tragic thing
about Khrushchev may be that he has
got a false impression. There is every
reason to believe that he thinks he is
going to win. Every time we get the
jitters, that impression is further sustained,
But what will he do if we remain firm
and otherwise do nothing at all? He may
decide that we mean business ; he may
get more and more stubborn, make more
and more threats and perhaps get us all
into the kind of hideous entanglement of
bluff and counter-bluff that constitutes
one of the two main threats to the peace
of the world. (The other threat is that
we might give in.) One hopes not; one
hopes he is enough of a showman to move
from diversion to diversion. But the real
test for the world will come if, through
some miscalculation, some over-confident
judgment, or through sheer habit, he puts
himself in a position in which we call
his bluff and he stands firm. In the mean-
time the best we can do is to convince
him that he is in fact not going to win.
Anything less than that may yet cause the
disaster we all pray will never happen.


The Marriage
Guidance Boom
"The job attracts a-lot ot people with a morbid
interest in other people's marital problems; we have
to weed them out,"
By RAYMOND HARRIS
SIR GARFIFXD BARWICK
"No denominational competition”
MARRIAGE being an institution with a small registra-
tion fee and remarkably low entrance require-
ments, each year 75,000 couples in Australia
ignore “Punch’s” advice to those contemplating
matrimony and go ahead and do it anyway. Each year,
however, more and more married couples-—at present one
couple in ten —apply for divorces or decide to separate.
Whatever the reasons, it has become clear to those
concerned with preserving marriage as an institution that
something needed to be done short of the “marriage
mortuary” (divorce court). So “marriage guidance”—or
“marriage counselling,” as the practitioners prefer to call it
—came into existence.
As a calling, it is barely 25 years old. It was estab-
lished in its present form in Britain by Dr David Mace,
who now works in the United States (where, for various
reasons, there is more marriage-guidance work than any-
where else). In Australia it dates from about 1948. So
far it has not become as fashionable as it has in the United
States, where Dr Paul Popenoe, aged 72, has become a
nation-wide television star by hearing marital problems
before an audience of millions, and where “Divorcees
Anonymous” operates in 31 cities, providing a 24-hour
service to potential divorcees.
In Australia, however, marriage guidance, after years
of precarious existence, has at last received official recogni-
tion. Under Sir Garfield Barwick’s Matrimonial Causes
Act every solicitor must now tell any client whose remarks
lead him to believe that a divorce petition is in the wind
that there are a number of organisations, both denomina-
tional and non-denominational, for the purpose of “counsel-
ling.” (The solicitor does not have to offer any advice about
their value; he only has to point out that they exist.) Even
when a case has come to court the divorce judge, if he feels
there is the slightest chance of a reconciliation, is supposed
to withhold the decree until the case has been referred to
a recognised marriage-guidance counsellor.
Some lawyers dismiss the value of these attempts to
patch up marriages at such a late stage. One lawyer said:
“People don’t begin divorce proceedings lightly. Divorce
is too expensive, too difficult and too unpleasant a public
exposure. If they are reconciled at this late stage it is ten
to one that the marriage will break down again. Then the
partners have all the expense of starting proceedings again.”
This lawyer dismisses the reconciliation clause as a “sop to
the Churches.”
But the marriage-guidance people can point to one
encouraging trend since they began work: the divorce rate
in Australia is increasing at only one-twelfth of the rate
of population increase. And every year the number of
couples asking for advice mounts.
However, marriage guidance got its biggest lift not
simply from the Attorney-General’s recognition of nearly 20
organisations, but from the Federal subsidy which goes
with it. This year most approved marriage-guidance groups
have received an initial payment of £2OOO, with the prospect
of more to come.
A/fOST of the marriage-guiders—particularly in New
1 South Wales, where they flourish —have already started
planning better offices, bigger staffs, full-scale training
schemes and all the other status symbols that have been
impossible on the old State subsidy of £lOOO a year.
In the past the way has been hard. Last year the
Marriage Guidance Council of N.S.W., probably the best-
known counselling body in the State, had to appeal to the
public for funds —even for office furniture. (“Otherwise,”
said its director, the Rev. W. G. Coughlan, “we will be
bankrupt.”)
A smaller, completely independent organisation, the
Family Welfare Bureau, which has no Church or Red Cross
support, is still struggling to survive. Last year, after an
internal bust-up as severe as any of the troubled marriages
it investigates, its director and all its counselling staff
resigned. It is now “rebuilding,” as the secretary, Mr
Dibbs, puts it, but has yet to be approved by the Attorney-
General as eligible for a Federal subsidy.
But beneath the aura of expansion in the marriage-
guidance world there is an undercurrent of anxiety. Some
fear that if everybody (particularly all the Churches) tries
to get in on the act the Federal subsidy will have to be
spread so thinly that it will hardly go anywhere.
Sir Garfield Barwick saw this possibility himself last
year when he announced the subsidies. “I am fearful of
any denominational competition,” he said. “There are so
few qualified workers that if they have to be shared out
too far the scheme could come unstuck.” And he urged
all the Protestant Churches, in particular, to get together
on national lines rather than to attempt to set up numerous
splinter organisations.
So far there has been no evidence of any mergers or
rationalisation. In fact, the Methodists in Sydney have
gone ahead and (successfully) applied for a Federal subsidy
for their new marriage-guidance division, while the Church
of England is maintaining its support for all the groups it
backs.
The most worried marriage-guidance counsellor at the
moment is the Rev. W. G. Coughlan, who, athough a


Church of England minister, heads a non-denominational
organisation, the Marriage Guidance Council of N.S.W.
He says he is worried about “unseemly and wasteful rivalry
between religious denominations.
“Thirteen marriage-guidance organisations in Australia
have all had a down payment of £2000,” says Mr Coughlan.
“Already the number of groups is increasing. There are
now 16 altogether-five in Sydney instead of four. If all
the Churches set up their own groups, and especially in
the country areas, where we hope to operate, there just
won't be enough workers to go round.”
The shortage of trained counsellors is the biggest prob-
lem. It takes a year to train a counsellor, and although
the Attorney-General’s “marriage-guidance adviser,” Mr
L. V. Harvey, is investigating methods of training, at
present the counsellors have to train their own staff as
best they can.
“There's a very high wastage in the early stages,” says
Mr Coughlan. “Unfortunately the job attracts a lot of
people with a morbid interest in other people’s marital
problems; we have to weed them out. The high
standard of intelligence required of a counsellor also
limits the potential field, and the financial rewards are,
of course, not high.” Australia cannot yet offer marriage
counsellors a career in private practice, as can the United
States, where fees of up to £25 an hour are usual.
Because of the lack of money all marriage-guidance
centres have the rather bare, comfortless air of all charity
organisations. The common denominator is the small
room with a desk and chairs, where the frustration and
bitterness of unhappy homes is poured out.
Counsellors work mainly by listening. The chief
problems which cause marriages to go wrong are differ-
ences in outlook about religion, sex, children, money and
in-laws. But the biggest obstacle to the reconciliation of
such deadlocks, according to Dr David Mace, the “father”
of marriage guidance, is the “breakdown of communica-
tion.” They just won’t speak to each other.
The main function of the marriage counsellor is to
restore this “communication,” either by acting as a relay
station or by persuading the couple to put their cases in
the presence of a “referee.”
The counsellor’s first task is to persuade clients that
they are not going to be “judged.” “We must not be
shocked, although naturally we hear some shocking things,”
says Mr Coughlan, who. with one other counsellor, handled
60 per cent, of the 2500 interviews conducted last year by
the Marriage Guidance Council of N.S.W.
The most sensitive spot in a counsellor’s make-up is
the (frequent) criticism that he or she has no business
“advising” others how to patch up their marriages. In
fact, the very term “guidance” is considered a misnomer.
“We give people information about themselves and let
them reach their own decisions as to what to do,” insists
Mr Coughlan. “Our biggest problem in training counsellors
is to rid them of the itch to impose solutions.”
The Church organisations take precisely the same
attitude. “We use client-centred, or non-directive, counsel-
ling techniques,” says the Reverend Gordon Beatty, director
of the main Church of England marriage-guidance centre
in Sydney at St Andrews Cathedral. “We give informa-
tion, not advice.”
“Unless people make their own decision as to what to
do, it doesn’t matter what we tell them—they won’t do
it. ’ says Father Phibbs, in charge of the Catholic Family
Welfare Bureau (Marriage Guidance Section).
Father Phibbs even says that one of his special problems
is to avoid having one of the parties go away and tell the
other “the priest says Fm right; you must give in.” “We
have to make very sure that both parties know what we
have said,” explains Father Phibbs.
difficulty under which most guidance organisations
operate because of their religious affiliations, is the
inhibiting effect of the various religious views on such
awkward matters as pre-marital and extra-marital sex
and divorce.
Mr Beatty, of the St Andrews guidance centre, got
himself into the headlines last year when he told a group
of engaged couples (as part of a pre-marriage counselling
course) that “good-night kisses and holding hands” could
be harmful, and that they should rather concentrate on read-
ing the Bible, prayer, healthy sport and drama and achiev-
ing spiritual compatibility. These views were ridiculed
by many young people as being totally unrealistic.
Mr Coughlan says that the chief cause of marital
troubles is “immaturity,” and stresses that an over-emphasis
and disproportionate focusing on the physical facts of
reproduction can do as much harm as good.”
The fact remains, however, that on the bookshelves
in the Marriage Guidance Council's offices there are more
books on sex than on any other single subject, and the
panel of eminent consultants to whom his clients can be
referred includes 12 gynaecologists and one urologist, com-
pared with only six physicians, nine psychiatrists and eight
psychologists.
Mr Coughlan admits, too, that at lunch-hour quiz
sessions in the city, attended by up to 200 young men and
women in the 18-to-25 age group, questions come thick
and fast on pre-marital relationships, “love” and contra-
ception.
Mr Beatty, at St Andrews, is firm in his lectures to
engaged couples on the question of pre-marital sex. “We
don’t bring morals into it at all. We rely on the modern
THE REVEREND W. G. COUGHLAN
“Psycho dramatics"
THE REVEREND GORDON BEATTY
“Beware goodnight kisses”
FATHER E. P. PHIBBS
It gets back to me


scientific attitude, which is to recommend pre-marital
chastity on medical and psychological grounds.”
Father Phibbs, at the Catholic centre, is quite resigned
to the sexual element in marital troubles. “Sex difficulties
are like money troubles—quite uncanny in reflecting some
deep personality problem,” he says.
The sexual aspect of marriage counselling causes some
scepticism as to the ability of Father Phibbs and his nuns
to advise married people. “It gets back to me that people
are saying this,” he admits, with a slight smile. “But I’ve
heard so much over the years that I honestly believe that I
know as much as anyone could about these topics.”
Father Phibbs points out that the Catholic Church
has always had a kind of marriage-counselling service in
the parish priests. “But it didn't go far enough. Some
woman would go to the priest and complain that her old
man was playing up. The priest would call round and tell
the husband to pull his head in. and that was about all he
could do. Sooner or later it would flare up again. Now
they come to us.”
Marriage counsellors, even the Catholics, do not expect
to save every troubled marriage. Father Phibbs admits
that he would not attempt to force two people to live
together if they were clearly irreconcilable. Mr Coughlan
says that he and his team “do not look upon marriage as
necessarily permanent and indissoluble.”
“We feel that it is as much a social arrangement as
a religious contract,” says Mr Coughlan. “If a problem
marriage is clearly to be resolved only by divorce we do not
try and dissuade the couple.” He makes it clear, however,
that such a couple is told quite bluntly to go and see a
solicitor and not to waste valuable counselling time needed
by other couples.
AND how successful, on the whole, are marriage-guidance
counsellors in saving marriages? They are all reluctant
to quote hard figures, because of the impossibility of follow-
ing up cases over the years. Mr Beatty, at St Andrews
Cathedral, claims that 95 per cent, of the couples who
come to his centre are satisfactorily reconciled to each
other, although he admits that some cases might drag on
for years. (He also concedes that anyone who goes to a
marriage-guidance centre in the first place is probably pre-
disposed to do something about the mess that their personal
life is in.)
Dr David Mace holds that there are three conditions
which make for success in marriage counselling: first,
marriage problems should be brought for counselling as
early as possible, before a state of bitter warfare develops;
second, both husband and wife should co-operate in the
counselling; and third, the couple should be willing to
continue with counselling for a reasonable length of time.
(This condition would be more difficult to ensure in the
United States, where counselling is on a professional basis,
than in Australia, where couples generally do not pay, or
only nominally.)
All guidance authorities agree that the burden of
cases in Australia is growing faster than they can expand
to meet it. The first answer to this is to get the training of
counsellors on a proper footing. At present Mr Harvey, the
Attorney-General’s guidance adviser, is studying the various
training methods used by the different organisations, to try
and establish national standards.
The requirements for recruits, both male and female,
are generally, if loosely, accepted to be: over 30, married,
well integrated, emotionally stable and well educated. (This
requirement would, of course, on one count rule out
Catholic priests and nuns; but Father Phibbs says that when
the Attorney-General discovered that all his staff were
university-trained social workers their other disqualification
was overlooked.)
The Marriage Guidance Council of N.S.W. is experi-
menting with a novel training method imported from the
United States called “role-playing.” This was devised by
Dr J. L. Moreno, of the Psychodramatic Institute in New
York, during research into various therapies for personality
disorders.
In “role-playing” trainee marriage counsellors are
allotted roles in an imagined marital situation and told to
act them out. without script or instruction. A typical
situation might be the “eternal triangle,” with adultery com-
mitted or pending. The “role-players” would be encouraged
to work up a bitter quarrel, with other trainee counsellors
listening and observing. The discussions which follow
help the trainees to develop a grasp of human emotions,
but, more important, “gives them an insight into situations
which they themselves have never experienced.” explains
Mrs Marsh, a counsellor at the Marriage Guidance Council.
The other approach is to step-up the amount of pre-
marital guidance to prevent hasty unions in the first place.
Some organisations are already working at this with lectures,
films and talks for what Mr Coughlan calls “men and women
in doubt, confusion or guilt about their engagements and
sexual relations.”
It is unlikely, however, that any of them will go as far
as the Rev. P. Caporn, a minister at Eastwood. Notting-
hamshire (the birthplace of D. H. Lawrence), who recently
told his congregation that he would be in favor of giving
“Lady Chatterley’s Lover” to young people as a guide to
love and marriage.


•e>
M
m
,M
m- if A
!i
imm
Drive it! You'll be delighted with NEW
HYDRAMATIC
TRANSMISSION ON
HOLDEN
the most automatic automatic of them all!
There’s nothing to equal the delight and effortless ease of driving a new Hydra-
Matic Holden. No clutch, no gear lever nothing but smooth, relaxed driving.
IT’S THE BIG VALUE IN AUTOMATIC TRANSMISSION
Hydra-Matic is a three speed transmission. The
“middle” gear gives you more flexibility on steep
hills or when your car is heavily laden. Because of
Hydra-Matic’s exclusive fluid coupling, “slippage”
has been virtually eliminated.
Holden’s Hydra-Matic transmission is the newest
version of the world-famous General Motors trans-
mission proved by years of owner driving in
Cadillac and Oldsmobile,
IT’S THE BIG THRILL OF ’6l MOTORING
Hydra-Matic transmission makes owning Holden a
new and even bigger thrill. You move with a serene,
gliding motion because changes are made auto-
matically for you. The fluid coupling cushions
every change reducing wear on the engine, trans-
mission parts and tyres.
However, words can’t possibly do justice to the
real pleasure and driving ease of Holden with
Hydra-Matic* transmission. So ask your Holden
Dealer to arrange for you to have a drive—now!
* TRADEMARK
D 583
AND YOU’LL LIKE HOLDEN'S NEW BEAUTY AND VALUE
You’ll like the wide range of new colours you have
to choose from ... all in fade-resistant Magic-Mirror
Acrylic Lacquer Finish. You’ll be impressed with
the new luxury inside. You’ll appreciate the new
electric windshield wipers and new engine hood lock.
As well, Holden offers you proved advantages for
Australian motoring that no other car can match-
proved six cylinder performance, proved depend-
ability, proved operating economy, proved high
resale value. Come in ... see for yourself. . . Holden
is now even more rewarding to own—even finer
motoring value.
HOLDEN"
AUSTRALIA’S OWN CAR
Prices from £BB5 plus Sax
Hydra-Matic transmission is optional on Special Sedan
and Special Station Sedan at £95 plus tax.
Convenient GMAC Hire Purchase is available.
SEE YOUR LOCAL HOLDEN DEALER TODAY
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S PTY. LIMITED


The Publishing
Bonanza, 1961
This will be one of the greatest years in Australian
publishing history—but no one tells the public ,
By MAX HARRIS
MAX HARRIS
“That benighted tribe of bookseller s"
During the protracted kefuffle for the financial control of
Angus and Robertson during 1960 there were cynics who
felt that it did not matter all that much whether final control
went to the Burns or the George Ferguson faction. Angus
and Robertson were skidding down into the rat-race of
popular publishing, and their creative role in Australian
literary life was rapidly waning. Whether it all finished up
with a bang or a whimper was immaterial.
There was much evidence to support this gloomy view
in 1960. The publishing programme was weak as boarding-
house coffee and clearly geared to the library trade. It could
be said in defence that it was just one of those years, a
drought period for good manuscripts and original writing.
But other evidence went against the excuse that the literary
climate was to blame. The Burns broom had begun to
sweep out some of the most valuable and enduring titles at
insulting prices . . . Macartney’s “Australian Literature”
reduced from £4 4s. to 255., and at a wholesale cost to the
lucky booksellers of 12s. 6d.: M. H. Ellis's “Francis Greenway”
was jobbed out, and so on and on. It looked clearly a matter
of policy changing to ephemeral quick - turnover popular
titles. It looked very much as if the mighty “Australian
Encyclopaedia” would be George Ferguson's literary
monument.
No one in the bookselling trade (and by this I mean
bookselling, not book merchandising) would have imagined
in January, 1961, that A. and R.’s would leap back into the
quality book market with a mighty programme. The publishing
annus mirabilis had begun.
The strength of this programme comes in part from
some worthy Commonwealth Literary Fund assistance.
Last year four books of poetry came into being, a fairly feeble
output for a nation of 10 million people. These four books
of Australian poetry represented not merely Angus and Robert-
son, but all Australian publishers. This year, no doubt, with
the comforting support of the C.L.F. behind them, A. and R.
are publishing Elizabeth Riddell’s “Forbears,” Ray Mathew’s
"South of Equator,” F. T. Macartney’s “Selected Poems,”
Kenneth McKenzie’s “Selected Poems,” the “Best Poems of
Hugh McCrae” a welcome verse volume from Ronald McCuaig,
Francis Webb’s “Socrates” and the Brennan prose. When to
this is added the overseas publication of A. D. Hope’s “Poems,”
the Ern Malley edition from Lansdowne, and Evan Jones’s
“Inside the Whale” from Cheshire, 1961 looks a stimulating
year for poetry publication.
But poetry publication is episodic, and continues at its
own pace, and slender volumes appear even if the poets have
to pay for them. What is more impressive is the way Aus-
tralian writers have come to recognise the importance of
serious non-fictional work. This realisation has come just at
the right time.
The fiction market has packed up. With the advent of
television the light fictional market shrank, while other literary
fields maintained a steady demand. Insofar as the market
recovered after a time, the fictional demand shifted to the
cheap lollyshop paperback reprint. The bound novel was the
riskiest of publishing propositions. This was dramatically true
in the U.K. The U.K. bestseller lists have been dominated
by non-fictional titles—“ Born Free,” “Ring of Bright Water,”
“The Destruction of Lord Raglan,” “The Waste Makers,”
“My Grandmothers and 1.” In the serried ranks of the 1961
bestseller the only novel seems to be Graham Greene’s
“Burnt-Out Case.” An even surer way of assessing the signs
of the times is by keeping a close eye on the remainder market,
and 1961 has revealed some extraordinary jobbings. One
would scarcely expect “Rally Round the Flag” to be jobbed,
or S. J. Perelman’s “Bite on the Bullet,” or McKinlay Kantor’s
“Andersonville.” But these are the titles the astute bookseller
can pick up for next to nothing these days.
In short, the Burns policy for A. and R. was wrong in
terms of overseas markets trends as well as destructive of a
noble publishing tradition. This could not be more forcibly
stressed than in Angus and Robertson’s own jobbing pro-
gramme for 1961. Bestsellers do not usually die on their feet.
Even though the demand may decline, there is usually enough
life in the market to clear a reasonable-sized edition. But this
year A. and R.’s stock clearance has been severely limited to
fictional titles—and these were not first novels or flops. For
example, two D’Arcy Niland titles, “The Shiralee” and “Call
Me When the Cross Turns Over,” have been thrown out for
a few bob apiece.
eorge Ferguson has now found his old policy triumphantly
vindicated, and perfectly geared to the taste of today’s
Australian book reader, with the outstanding success
of “Sydney's First Four Years,” the original journals of
Watkin Tench. Within modest limits, this vivid and immediate
journal of the Phillip settlement has become an overnight
bestseller. With no promotion behind it, with casual press
reviews, the book has nonetheless established itself on the
literary bush telegraph, and is enjoying solid and constant sales
despite a 50s. retail price.
Fortunately the whole 1961 programme, reflects publishing
of this order. Despite the existence of Geoffrey Rawsons
“The Count” A. and R. will be issuing a new biography of
Strzelecki in July, “In a Dark Glass,” by H. Except
that it was published long before its market time, Melbourne
University Press’s edition of Alexander Harris’s “Settlers and
Convicts” could have been a mighty best seller. Taking
advantage of this A. and R.’s are issuing in August “The Secret
of Alexander Harris,” a book which confirms the Harris
authorship of this fascinating volume of colonial reminiscence,
and adds a whole swag of previously unknown Harris writing
to our present knowledge.


GEORGE FERGUSON
Vindicated
STANLEY HORWITZ
First in paperbacks
LLOYD O’NEIL
Rediscovering Ern Malley
ANDREW FABLNYI
Enthusiasm
Again, concentrating on the growing national interest in
source material, A. Grenfell Price is editing “The Winning
of Australian Antarctica,” most of which comes direct from
the original Mawson voyages. In the history field there is
also to be Colonel Newman’s “Spirit of Wharf House,” and
to cap it all, one of the biggest publishing projects in recent
years in Australia . . . Dr J. C. Beaglehole's edition of "The
Journals of Sir Joseph Banks.” In two volumes, and at the
reasonable price of £5 55., the edition is to be severely limited
and is heavily subsidised. But 1 think there will be some sur-
prise at the extent of the general demand for this historic set.
Moving to the field of Australian scholarship, A. and R. are
issuing H. M. Green’s long-awaited two-volume “History
of Australian Literature’’ and, as if this were not substantial
enough on its own, Marjorie Barnard's 635. “History of Aus-
tralia.” This summary only, touches the sides of A. and R.'s
1961 programme (omitting/a new book of aboriginal lore by
A. E. Wells, Black’s “Old and New Australian Aboriginal
Art,” and Xavier Herbert's gigantic “Soldiers’ Women”).
The phrase annus mirabilis would be inept lor the
current publishing spectacle if it were only reflected by Angus
and Robertson. But the younger publishing houses . . . Cheshire,
Jacaranda, Lansdowne, and Ure Smith . . . are in the
thick of it. Already Cheshire’s, motored by the enthusiasm
of Andrew Fabinyi, have to their credit this year
“Catholics and the Free Society,” a highly civilised national
debate on Australian Catholicism, and "They Came to Aus-
tralia,” an anthology of source material But their big project
for the year will be “Australian Civilisation Today,” a large
and except symposium on everything from morals, literature
and religion to businessmen, intellectuals and architects.
Jacaranda Press, in Queensland, has undertaken solid work
in the Australian field: they recently issued Bleakley’s
sociologically important “The Australian Aborigine" and, of
course, Eddy's “Orr.” Ure Smith has issued the finest book
ever published on Australian opals, but the greatest interest
in Sam Ure Smith’s activities is linked to his projected new ;
magazine, “Art in Australia.” Keeping faith with his assertion
of a couple of years back, that the profits from “Weird Mob”
and other popular books would be ploughed back into prestige
publishing, Sam Ure Smith is taking the biggest gamble
of his business life at the end of the year. Can Australia, in
its present mood of high nationalism, sustain a really beautifully
produced fine arts periodical? From the bookseller’s angle
the prospects are good, even rosy. Despite its struggling
amateurism Frank Harvey’s “Australian Theatregoer has
commanded a very healthy market, and this without the
benefit of editorial organisation, promotional capital, or expert
distribution. The chances for “Art in Australia” seem near
enough to be assured, given the Ure Smith marketing drive, and
if the editing escapes the appalling clannishness that bedevils
the interstate art worlds.
The roseate tones begin to fade once one turns to the
paperback side of Australian publishing. It is stupefying to
contemplate how long Australian publishers are taking to
wake up to the paperback situation, and how wrong their
initial policies are. There are two main categories of paper-
back: the lollyshop and the egghead. For a couple of years,
while the demand for the bound novel fell away to nothing,
the lollyshop paperback filled the vacuum ; and the demand
for sex sagas, war novels, and Spillanery w'as prodigious But
the market came to be over-exploited trom 1958 onwards.
Paperback wholesalers mushroomed. With the freeing of
American imports U.S.A. series such as Dell, Ballantine,
Signet, surged in to join the ever-increasing flood of English
popular paperbacks. As a result the market soon hardened.
New titles became hard to find, and publishers fell back on
seventh-rate reprints. The covers got sexier and the contents
more innocuous, and the lollyshop buyer found he wasn't
getting his money's worth of titillation. He was being “conned'’
by the art of the cover. Unobtrusively, but on a big scale,
1961 has brought about the pulping and jobbing of minor
mountains of unsold paperbacks. On the other hand the
“egghead’’ paperback is growing in market strength and
looks like continuing that way. The fantastic flow of public
money into the Penguin organisation this year shows the degree
of faith in the future of the quality paperback. This is the
more surprising when one considers how fiercely competitive
egghead publishing is. Apart from American publishing,
where egghead paperbacks have been long and soundly estab-
lished, it is hard to name English publishers at the moment
who have not entered the field —Allen and Unwin, Faber,
Oxford, Methuen, Cambridge, Routledge, all of them have
admirable and erudite lists.
Apart from Horwitz who is now also republishing
Penguins in Australia, paperback publishing still did not
exist in Australia at the beginning of 1961. Rigby’s of
Adelaide were next to enter the field with their Aus-
tralian Pocket Books. But the indifferent Vance Palmer,
Alan Marshall. George Farwell titles were given appal-
ling paper, worn - out type, and cover illustrations more
suited to the Mills and Boon love romances of the 19205.
The policy was obviously to sell Australiana in the now-
declining 4s. lollyshop market. It is even more depressing
to find Angus and Robertson following the same doomed
policy with their new Pacific Books. The programme from
June to October shows heavy reliance on Frank Clune.
E. V. Timms, lon Idriess, Morris West, and —wait for it —
Gwen Meredith’s “Blue Hills.” In production and approach
there is nothing to choose between Rigby and A. and R.
Pacific books are covered with crude and unpalatable art work
which will not even tempt the buyer at the suburban deli.
Sydney has the art designers and the typographers to
launch a quality paperback series in the 15s. price range.
A. and R. have the titles —the M. H. Ellis biographies, H. V.
Evatts “Rum Rebellion,” “Capricornia,” “Such is Life”
and so on.
My immediate guess is that Pacific Books are the belated
product of programming that took place two years or so ago.
Meanwhile the quality paperback remains the sole big gap
in Australian publishing, with the hint of things to come
occasionally emerging from Melbourne University Press with
its excellent but haphazard series, the most notable of which
this year is Robin Boyd’s famous “Australia’s Home.”
The one great pity about Australia’s annus mirabilis of
publishing is that Australians are largely unaware of it.
It would be really something if the present zest and creativity
in publishing were rounded off with some joint promotional
campaign. The pro-rata cost of such a campaign to the
individual publishers would be small, and the result, if the
campaign were directed to the public and not to the benighted
tribe of booksellers, could well be quite spectacular.


AUSTRALIA AND THE WORLD
Trouble Spots
of Asia
Lack of foresight forces the West to improvise
unhappily in Asia .
By KIERAN GREGORY
KHRUSHCHEV
PRINCE SOUVANNA
PHOUMA
A chat about the Loatian crisis at a Black
Sea resort
Tf trouble spots were worth money to anyone other than
news commentators Asia would be rich. The area is a
rash of trouble spots for reasons which are easier to identify
than to remedy: low living standards, ineffective government,
Communist infiltration, dissident religious, racial and linguistic
minorities. Governments are under the constant pressure of
rising expectations and Communists make a profession of
exploiting hope. It is easier to subvert than maintain order,
particularly with promises of a complete new deal to people
who for the first time believe that such a thing is possible.
The West, meaning mainly America, is constantly forced to
improvise because the discontent, both real and fomented,
results in urgent demands for aid. But even aid can corrupt.
A swift survey shows that there are so many present and
potential trouble spots that only long-term planning can hope
to salve Asia’s troubles. Most recognise that the comfortable
days when the British Fleet guarded us are gone for ever ;
what many do not yet realise is that discontent among the
Tamil tea-plantation workers in Ceylon can affect us con-
siderably ; that internal troubles in any Asian country can
instantly raise international tension ; that each country must
be considered in relation to the whole area.
No country’s trade can be considered solely in economic
terms when it is dealing with a China which regards trade as
a political weapon ; no country should be regarded in isolation
when Communist strategy looks at Asia as a whole. The one
Asian power which could match China, India, is committed
to neutralism as well as in need of aid itself so nations are
linked mainly with the U.S.A. As well as the 1954 Seato
Treaty which links Thailand, the Philippines and Pakistan
with the U.S.A., the United Kingdom, France, New Zealand
and Australia in a common defence arrangement there are
bilateral treaties between the U.S.A. and Japan, Korea, the
Philippines and Formosa. That is the defence structure of
an area absorbed by particular problems which constantly
threaten to become regional problems. Here are brief pointers
to what could be danger points.
G India: It has been politically independent for 13 years
but it may need another 13 years before it is economically
independent. The success of India’s third (1961-66) five-year
plan would lead to a little over four per cent, annual increase
in consumption but the population is growing by two per cent,
annually. If all goes well the average Indian will be merely
hungry rather than merely starving by 1966. That is the best
that can be hoped for: if the plan is a success India will have
proved that a nation can undergo an economic revolution
without a political one. Sources of trouble, apart from major
economic setbacks, could be the quarrel with Pakistan over
Kashmir or a fracturing of unity by one of the nation’s
religious, linguistic or racial groups (the riots in Assam last
October when Assam and English were made official languages,
the Sikhs’ demand in January for their own .State). The
Communist party has not succeeded in making great capital
out of any such motives for dissension, perhaps for the reason
given by a member of the National Council of the Indian
Communist Party, Mr Gupta, in a rather ominous statement
in Sydney this month: “The Communist Party of India
generally supports the foreign policy of the Nehru Govern-
ment, which is a policy of peace, peaceful co-existence and
anti-colonialism.”
G Pakistan : Economic necessity and pride have opened
Pakistan to Russian influence. The Pakistanis believe they
have oil. the West could not find any, so Russian technicians
are now searching for it. Pakistan has a food problem with
a population of nearly 90,000,000 which is increasing by
1,500,000 yearly. It complains that neutralist India receives
more American aid than it did as a staunchly Western sup-
porter so it is now open to Russian help. Pakistan poses the
problem of how much help the West should give, how much
self-help it should demand. China could provoke further
trouble between India and Pakistan over Kashmir. A few
months ago Karachi students burnt Mr Nehru’s effigy outside
the Indian chancery following reported ill-treatment of
Moslems in India.
® Nepal. Burma Cambodia : Militarily weak and neutralist,
these States are dependent on China’s benevolence. Of the
seven generals who have seized power in Asia and the Middle
East during the last ten years Burma's Ne Win is the only
one who has handed it over to a freely elected government,
but Burma’s hinterland is open to infiltration and the obscure
struggles going on there are a threat to the government. The
civil war which started when the British left has never been
finally settled. Both Burma and Nepal have reached border
agreements favorable to China , Cambodia, quaking at the
approach of Communist power through Laos and Vietnam,
has linked itself economically with China.
G Ceylon: The Sinhalese Government’s oppression of the
Tamil minority could have disastrous consequences, including
the ruin of the country’s precarious economy. The country
has had more than two months of emergency, mobilisation
and censorship.
G Indonesia: A classic example of a trouble-spot. The
fertility of the islands saves the government from an economic
breakdown but their dispersion means there is little central
control. Consequently anti-Java separatist movements, such
as those which broke out three years ago in Sumatra and the
Celebes are always likely to disrupt the republic. Nevertheless
Indonesia claims West New Guinea and although President
Soekarno, in his current world tour, got a poor welcome in
Washington it was warm in Moscow and tumultuous in Peking.
G Korea: Trouble in Korea can spring from either of two
sources: the Premier, Lieutenant-General Chang Do Young,
has promised to support social reform, but he may not fulfil
his promise or be unable to carry it out, particularly if he
is caught in a power struggle with the rest of the 30 generals
and colonels who recently seized power.
G China: Fomentor of trouble in many other parts of South-
east Asia, China is having her own troubles through natural
disasters and, the Chinese press now admits, because of
sabotage as well as negligence. Trouble in China can mean
increased trouble for its neighbors.
G Japan: One of China’s major objectives is to convert Japan
to neutralism by regaining its natural position as the first
market for Japanese exports. It is vital to the West that Japan,
the major Asian industrial nation, retain its economic independ-
ence from China, yet Japan complains of inequitable economic


mi ihe
\
0
Man does not live by bread alone, inspired
writers have told us. That is certainly true. And
in its wisdom it implies that without the food of
which bread is a symbol, man could not go
on living.
Bread in its many forms has been sustaining
human life right through from antiquity. The
ancient Egyptians were making it from flour they
ground from wheat harvested in the Valley of
the Nile.
Countries of Western Europe were baking
bread before the Roman invasion. The Romans
and Greeks were themselves well versed in the art,
and encouraged their schools of bakery.
Whether the constituent source was wheat,
rye. barley, oats, or the seeds that Australian
aborigines pounded and made into paste, it
to have been instinctive in every race from the
earliest times to have ensured its subsistence by
the baking of daily bread.
These thoughts were prompted by the
announcement that Australia last year had a high
wheat yield and is exporting large quantities of
wheat and flour.
We are close to the markets of Asia, where
the milling of wheat is being built up as part of
an increasing industrialisation. It is importar ,
then, that we should concentrate on producing the
types of export grain best suited to the countries
with which we hope to expand our wheat trade.
With large stockpiles of surplus grain held in
North America, and purchasing power low in many
consumer countries, the emphasis should be on
selective efficiency rather than on quantitative
output in the production of Australian
Yields, after all, are at present at the merc> of
seasons; but standards are enduring.
What is true of wheat is true of beef and <. ery
other item of food Australia is capable of producing.
Man will still be living by bread when th;
farthest frontiers of knowledge and exploration
have been crossed. And Australia, in supplying
food to a more populous world, will be filling a
bigger and more responsible role for humanity in
the years to come.
treatment from Western nations. It is in Australia’s interest
to prevent trouble in this particular spot, for should Britain
enter the Common Market we will be linked even more closely,
tradewise, with Japan. Its prosperity so far has prevented
political turbulence, but there have been indications of what
could happen after an economic upset: the demonstrations
against Eisenhower’s visit was one warning and the slaying
of the leader of the Socialist party by an ultra-nationalist
student last October another. The Government has recently
been forced to shelve an anti-violence ordinance.
9 Laos, Thailand, North and South Vietnam : Hundreds of
thousands of words have been written about these trouble
spots in recent months, but it is clear that the situation will
deteriorate further, whatever arrangement is reached for Laos,
unless Western aid results in governments that do not collapse
as they have been doing since the time the French controlled
the area.
• Malaya : The Communist threat was conclusively quashed
in Malaya, but a possible danger, should Chinese influence
THE CURRENT CRISIS
reach the border, is the high proportion of Chinese in the
population. This problem is felt in other South-east Asian
countries also ; the number of Chinese there, in relation to
the total population, is shown in the following table:
Total. Chinese.
Laos 1,750,000 10.000
North Vietnam .. 13,500,000 50,000
South Vietnam .. .. 12,000,000 780,000
Cambodia .. .. 4,200,000 230,000
Thailand 20,800,000 2,360,000
Burma 20,300,000 320,000
Malaya .. .. ~ 6,250,000 2,365,000
Singapore .. .. .. 1,260,000 965,000
Philippines .. .. 22,280,000 270,000
British Borneo .. .. 1,000,000 270,000
Indonesia .. .. .. 80,000,000 2,250,000
Asia is packed with trouble spots, but with foresight,
good planning and good luck the trouble in many of these
spots can be avoided.


The Man on the Land
If the Dairy Industry
Would Only Try
Government subsidies increase the
dairy industry's problems.
This article is condensed from an address entitled “The Dairy
Industry in a Changing World,’’ delivered earlier this month
to the Richmond-Tweed division of the Agricultural Bureau
of N.S.W. by Professor Keith O. Campbell, Professor of
Agricultural Economics, University of Sydney.
The Australian dairy industry, like the dairy industries of
quite a few other countries, is currently in economic
difficulty. This year it has seen butter prices on the
London market fall as low as 2475. a cwt., thus repeat-
ing the experience of the 1958 season. European countries,
following protectionist policies, have dumped their seasonal
surpluses on the United Kingdom market to the detriment of
regular suppliers. And signs that the British Government is
preparing to join the European Common Market are ominous
for dairy producers in Australia and New Zealand.
Today a greater proportion of Australian dairy produce
is going to the home market than before the war. Some
observers have even forecast, on the basis of population trends,
that Australia might have no export trade in dairy produce by
1970 or soon after. Nevertheless I think it is important for
the Australian industry to try to maintain its competitive
ability on world markets. At the same time any improve-
ments in production and marketing efficiency will greatly
strengthen the industry’s position on the home market. Given
our resources and potential technical knowledge, we can
greatly improve the efficiency of our dairy industry. But to
do this the industry will have to adopt a much more progres-
sive attitude than it has lately been showing.
It seems inevitable that our balance-of-payments diffi-
culties will continue for a long time yet. Sir John Crawford
has said that we would need between £4OO and £6OO million
more exports in ten years’ time. With no change in the
relationship of export to import prices, this means an increase
of between 45 and 65 per cent, on the current level of exports.
If there is any hope that the dairy industry can contribute
towards the needed expansion of exports, it should try to
do so.
On the local market, for the fifth successive year the
Government has subsidised domestic sales to the tune of
£13.5m., bringing the total over the past ten years to a
fantastic £l6om. Despite this the domestic price of butter
was pushed still higher to compensate for rising costs. Mean-
while various props designed to maintain levels of domestic
consumption of dairy products have been vigilantly maintained.
The picture at farm level is equally depressing. We are
told that despite all the public assistance to the industry many
dairyfarmers are earning less than the basic wage. Moreover,
much of the subsidy is going to those who least need it. An
estimated 30 per cent, of the total subsidy is going to the
13 per cent, of farmers who have the largest incomes, and
only 10 per cent, is going to the 30 per cent, who have the
smallest incomes. But the industry, though protected in some
measure by an indefensible costing procedure, is suffering, like
all Australian rural industries, from rising costs and unstable
overseas prices. In spite of all this, milk production in recent
years has been hitting record levels, and land values on better-
class dairying country are still rising.
The various remedies that have been used or proposed
can be divided into two broad types those designed to
influence the market, and those affecting production.
In recent years the Australian dairy industry has outlayed
larger and larger sums for promotion both overseas (especially
in the U.K.) and at home. But I think that advertising is
vastly overrated where the dairy industry is concerned. Promo-
tion by one food industry of its particular product may simply
result in a transfer of demand between commodities, with no
significant increase in the demand for food as a whole. More-
over, it is difficult to tell whether promotion campaigns are
paying off, and it is very easy to be misled. The Chairman
of the N.S.W. Milk Board has inferred that as a result of
the £lOO,OOO “bottle-cracking” campaign consumption of milk
had increased by 3.2 per cent, last year as compared with
increases of 1.7 per cent, in 1959 and 2.1 per cent, in 1958.
But figures such as these cannot be taken at face value. Other
factors have been at work. Population has increased signifi-
cantly (by 2.4 per cent.) particularly affecting the younger
age groups, consumer incomes have risen substantially (by
nearly 8 per cent.) and there may be significant changes in
consumer tastes and habits.
There are, of course, other ways of expanding demand for
food products. The dairy industries of many countries have
benefited from the fact that milk products often have a sub-
stantial place in government welfare schemes (school milk
programmes, etc.) as well as in international relief activities.
Milk products have nutritional value, of course, but most dairy
products have not been proved nutritionally superior to their
substitutes. In fact, the importance attached to dairy products
from a nutritional point of view seems often to be based on
psychological rather than physiological grounds.
In the area of market development, most organised Aus-
tralian primary industries seem to overlook what is potentially
the most powerful way of expanding demand and perhaps
raising gross receipts —a more flexible pricing policy. By
lowering prices, an industry might achieve higher gross receipts
more economically than by promotion. When the N.S.W.
Milk Board lowered the price of cream by one-third last
November in response to the challenge of cream mixes, con-
sumption of pure cream rose by about 50 per cent, and would
doubtless have risen more if cream mixes had not cornered
a share of the market.
VTow for the second broad class of measures adopted in the
hope of improving conditions in the dairy industry—
those affecting production.
The dairy industry, perhaps as much as any Australian
primary industry, has been troubled by the upward trend of
costs in the post-war period. Like other export industries, it


has also had to bear its share of the burden of tariff protection
afforded secondary industry. It is often argued that this
justifies at least part of the public assistance the industry has
received.
The Minister for Trade told the annual conference of the
National Farmers’ Union last October that the Government
took it for granted that the nation demanded rapid growth
of our economy and consequently took action to that end.
Policies of expansion, he said, automatically generate cost
problems for rural producers, and rural producers would be
well advised to learn to live with this situation. True, some
of the excess steam has been taken out of the economy as
a result of the economic measures adopted by the Common-
wealth Government last November, and from this action the
rural industries have doubtless received some benefit. But
the real niggers in the woodpile so far as the primary indus-
tries are concerned are some long-established economic
institutions such as the tariff system and the system of basic-
wage determination. Unfortunately there is no sign that the
procedures and practices of the Tariff Board or the Arbitration
Commission are going to be modified in the near future. As
the export industries tend progressively to produce a smaller
and smaller proportion of the national income, these burdens
may indeed be intensified in the years to come.
One of the main hopes for offsetting the effects of the
cost squeeze on the rural industries is through improved pro-
ductivity. The Australian Government has in fact demon-
strated its faith in such a solution through its Dairy Efficiency
Grants, and the dairy industry itself has been sharing the costs
of research. Nevertheless, while technological advances may
greatly help the industry to increase its competitive ability,
two fallacies are frequently held about the likelihood of such
measures solving the industry’s problems.
First, the wide divergences in efficiency between dairy-
farmers in different regions and between dairyfarmers in the
same region are often taken as evidence of a challenging gap
to be filled by expanded technical knowledge. But these
divergences often arise from differences of environment,
managerial ability and the availability of land, capital and
other resources. Extension of technical knowledge is unlikely
to reduce cost differentials arising from these sources. Such
cost problems must be attacked more directly.
Second, technical advance could bring chaos rather than
relief unless the market for dairy products expands with pro-
duction —particularly if the price-support schemes in use do
not take account of changes in productivity.
The possibility of the dairy industry retaining for itself
many of the benefits of technical improvements by price-
controls is largely precluded by the existence of good substi-
tutes for most dairy products. Yet dairyfarmers the world over
seem to put great faith in price manipulation. And, judging
by the evidence submitted to the recent dairy inquiry, there
are some who would burden the Australian industry with even
more complex pricing schemes involving production controls
or quotas.
The main criticism of these methods is that the price
the farmer receives often gives an imperfect picture of the
state of the market for dairy products and he is encouraged
to overproduce. But the real trouble with pricing schemes
is that they can be manipulated to raise incomes in the industry
through transfer of income from other sections of the popula-
tion and they ultimately impede rather than help production
and marketing efficiency.
It is a poor defence of such practices to say that other
countries support the incomes of their dairyfarmers. Most
governments introduce such schemes in the belief that they
are helping the industry out of an emergency. Little or no
effort is made to distinguish between the effects of short-term
fluctuations in supply and demand from longer-term changes
affecting the industry.
No primary industry with any streak of independence
would want to become a permanent ward of the State. Yet
the two major schemes of assistance to dairy industries in
vogue in the world today —arrangements to ensure that returns
to workers in the dairy industry are comparable with returns
in other sections of the economy ; and price supports based
on cost of production—almost inevitably have that effect.
Both result in dairyfarmers receiving a return for their labor
in excess of the return for which such farmers are ordinarily
willing to produce milk. In time such schemes tend to raise
the rate of remuneration of labor faster than the rate of
increase of productivity.
Price supports of this kind tend to aggravate the problem
of the dairy industry in three main ways. First, economic
pressures tending to encourage less-efficient dairy workers to
move to other jobs are repressed. Second, the tendency for
prices of dairy products to increase relative to other prices is
further enhanced and the consumption of dairy products is
reduced still further unless consumer subsidies are used as
an offsetting factor. Third, overproduction is encouraged
because prices are not related to the state of the market.
In addition, the payment of high support prices to dairy
farmers is often not reflected so much in improved living
standards as in higher land values and rents.
'T'hus it is futile to try to preserve the traditional structure
of the industry by means of Government support. What
is needed is a policy involving reconstruction of holdings that
are too small, and other methods of raising the general level
of efficiency so that producers may have a chance to expand
sales at lower prices. This was virtually what the McCarthy
committee of inquiry told the Government and the industry.
But the industry dismissed its recommendations, asserting
that financial aid to transform inefficient farms into viable
economic units should be only an appendage and should not
be made at the expense of the subsidy. Although I do not
agree with everything the McCarthy Committee has said, I
think that here it is on the right track. Reduction in subsidy
must go hand in hand with reconstruction of marginal farms.
Changes in the structure of an agricultural industry are
never easy to make—particularly in an industry traditionally
operated on a small scale and characterised by intensive use
of labor. Adjustment to change demands more land and
more capital which the disadvantaged farmer does not have
and cannot get. It calls for a reduction in the labor force,
which in turn requires alternative job opportunities and the
will to overcome the universal resistance to change of job
and place of residence.
The principal hope for adjustment lies in the migration
of young people from farms. For mature farmers, leaving
the land for other jobs is virtually impossible. Believing the
alternatives too difficult, it is inevitable that an industry in
these difficulties should look to the Government. Continued
subsidies and price supports appear infinitely easier to
implement than any scheme of farm reconstruction: they are
speedier in their effect, they can even be less costly in the
short term, and they do not much disturb the status quo.
But they do nothing to solve the basic problem, and ultimately
they tend to aggravate it.
A similar reconstruction job to that proposed for the
dairy industry has already been carried through in this country
—the reconstruction of the marginal wheatfarms in the 1930 s
and early 19405; a much more difficult period than the
present.
There is plenty of evidence that the growth of demand for
dairy products in the more industrialised countries will be
slow. And even if most practicable improvements are made,
the long-term rise in dairy productivity is unlikely to keep
pace with productivity in other industries. This implies that
costs of production and prices of dairy products will rise
relative to general price levels, and that consumption will not
be encouraged by a fall in prices. Moreover, rises in income
do not appear to have any marked effect on consumption, and
there is no reason to expect that the growth in consumption
of dairy substitutes will be reversed. The main sources of
increases in demand are therefore likely to be increased in
population.
In short, the path in front of the dairy industry is not
likely to be a rosy one. If so, the industry must put itself
on a sound economic footing as soon as possible. Adaptation
to continuing economic growth is particularly difficult for this
industry ; but it is too early to throw in the sponge yet.
The Australian dairy industry, whatever its difficulties, is’ in
a much better position to meet the demands of a growing
economy than the industries of many other countries, if it
would only trv


FORUM
“I Told You So!”
"Mr Santamaria is performing a public service which no
other individual or group in the community has so far
shown any ability to emulate."
By KEVIN DUFFY
3^ 71LL1AM GINNANE in his discussion of Mr Santamaria s
contribution to “Catholics and the Free Society” fed.
H. Mayer, B. 24/5/61), states that there is only one question
involved: “Was ‘The Movement’ genuine in its professed aim of
defeating Communism? Or was it in reality an organisation which
used the Communist issue as a means towards its ‘real end’—the
taking over of the Labour Party?” Because Mr Santamaria “never
actually gives a simple negative answer” Mr Ginnane believes the
question is being skirted. One has the feeling that he is merely
using the fact that Mr Santamaria did not spell out the answer
N... . 0. .. NO to the latter question, to dredge up some of the
old mud and combine it with some inside information (“I was
a Member of the National Executive” of the Young Christian
Workers, an official Catholic Action organisation ) to criticise
the movement and its activities. The purpose of this article is not
to censure Mr Ginnane for criticising the Movement or Mr Santa-
maria, but to correct some of the vague and sloppy allegations
he ma\es.
IF Mr Santamaria’s integrity is accepted
—and despite all the criticism of his
activities, his veracity and accuracy have
never been challenged—his outline of
“The Movement, 1941-60” should also be
accepted as accurate. He lucidly out-
lines the overall strategy of the Move-
ment and gives no more or no less pro-
minence to the Movement’s relationship
with the A.L.P. than the question deserves
-—if judged in an objective manner.
To counter Mr Santamaria's balanced
treatment of this question, even after
admitting the correctness of his claims
that no evidence has been produced that
the Movement was out to control the
A.L.P. and that its political activities
were “inescapable,” Mr Ginnane falls
back—as have so many in discussing the
Movement on an unsubstantiated
generalisation. After claiming that in
1949 the Movement formed the
“conscious policy of using the A.L.P.,”
he states that “these plans.... were
common knowledge to the leadership of
the orthodox Catholic Action organisa-
tions.” And despite this fact that “the
plans” were common knowledge to
people who included himself, Mr Gin-
nane does not produce one word of
documented, or substantiated, or authori-
tative evidence to back up his sweeping
allegation. Cannot we who were asso-
ciated with the Movement’s work be.
excused if we appear to be impatient with
such uninformed “informed criticism.”
To bring this discussion into its correct
perspective, the original—and continuing
—aims of the Movement should be
briefly re-stated. The Movement was
formed to combat Communism. Corn-
munism in Australia had as far back as
1923 selected the Australian trade-union
movement to be the main vehicle for its
activities ; in that year Communist candi-
dates had their first major industrial
success. Catholic consciousness of this
Communist activity did not commence in
1945. The awareness was always present,
but it was hoped that the remedy and
its application would come from within
the Labor movement. Only after the
Labor movement had clearly demon-
strated its inability to counter the Corn-
. munist organisational techniques, and in
a year when Communist party members
and supporters had a majority on the
floor of the Australian Council of Trade
Unions 1945 Congress was the Movement
established as a national organisation,
Thus the Movement did not select the
trade unions for its activity. The Corn-
munist party was in the unions—it had
selected the field and the Movement
followed. Had the Communists been
making their bid for power through the
Society for the Elimination of Telegraph
Poles, instead of the unions, the Move-
ment would have endeavored to counter
the Communist influence in a similar
manner. Only two basic factors guided
all the union campaigns contested against
the Communist party and its nominees.
The candidates the Movement supported
must be good unionists capable of filling
the executive position they were contest-
ing, and they must be opposed to Com-
munism. Catholicism or willingness to be
a rubber-stamp for Movement policies
were never a required qualification.
The displacement of Communists from
the main offices in a union led to a chain
of similar replacements at lower levels.
In the Federated Ironworkers’ Associa-
tion the going of Messrs Thornton and
McPhillips was accompanied by over 300
changes in positions throughout the
union. The vast majority of trade unions
in Australia are affiliated with the A.L.P.
and send delegates to each annual State
Conference. The delegates from the
Ironworkers’ Association were secret
Communist party members who held
A.L.P. tickets, or were A.L.P. members
known for their support of the policies
of F.I.A. National Executive (policies
which Mr Thornton admitted in a
moment of indiscretion were decided
after consultation with the Communist
party). These Left-wing or Communist
delegates from the F.I.A. to the A.L.P.
Conference were replaced by non-
Communist delegates as a necessary part
of the campaign to remove Communists
from positions of influence. In N.S.W.
there were about 15 F.I.A. delegates to
the A.L.P. Conference involved. These
new delegates then became, as a result
of their very background of opposition
to Communism in their own factories and
union, a vocal anti-Communist group
withiix the A.L.P. Multiply this one
instance by the numerous other cases in
which Communists were displaced by
non-Communists and it becomes apparent
that a sizeable bloc of non-Communists
—in fact anti-Communists in the most
active sense —was created as an inciden-
tal result of what was basically an indus-
trial activity.
Mr Ginnane has claimed that about
the time this process of change was tak-
ing place, the Movement formed the
conscious policy of using the A.L.P. to
implement various principles. It can be
readily established that Movement mem-
bers who were also in the A.L.P. were
certainly not pursuing an attitude of sub-
version in an attempt to “take over” that
party. The doggedness (it was often
called tactless, naive, stupid at the time)
with which those who supported anti-
Communist polices stood their ground at
union and A.L.P. branch meetings, often
exposing and ostracising themselves, was
hardly the “conscious policy” of a body
seeking to grab control of the A.L.P.
These people were standing their ground
on issues they regarded as vital in the
anti-Communist fight, and for the very
reason that they were not interested in
taking control of the A.L.P. they did not
resort to the political subterfuges and
unity campaigns which were the logical
tactics if seeking control.
My concluding observation on this
question of the political ambitions of
the Movement is to re-emphasise that
just as growing Communist control of
the trade unions was the reason for the
foundation of the Movement, so this


continued to be the prime activity right
until the time of dissolution. Individual
members of the National Executive—
who were always the full-time senior
officials in each region—c onstantly
emphasised the primacy of industrial
activity even to the extent of recommend-
ing to members that industrial activity
and trade-union meetings were of greater
urgency than political activities. At no
stage did any National Conference or
National Executive meeting discuss any
proposal to “take over the A.L.P ”
Passing from the political, Mr Ginnane
speaks of the apparent unanimity of
opposition to Mr Santamaria by the
Catholic Action organisations (except the
N.C.R.M.). If these four National
Catholic Action bodies were opposed to
the Movement and Mr Santamaria, it
seems strange that their Episcopal Chair-
men —a total of four Bishops—continued
to support the Movement by allowing it
to operate in their own dioceses. These
four Bishops who headed organisations
which “were steadfastly opposed” to cer-
tain activities of the Movement were
apparently unable to arouse their brother
Bishops. Even more significantly, these
men whom Mr Ginnane would have us
believe were opposed to some of the
Movement’s (alleged) activities continued
year after year to sign and have pub-
lished over their signature the Annual
Social. Justice Statement distributed on
a specified Sunday in every Catholic
Church in Australia. This statement was
written in entirety by Mr Santamaria!
No, Mr Ginnane, it is stretching the
imagination too far to suggest that
despite the substantial body of opposi-
tion you claim existed to Mr Santamaria’s
activities he was able to hoodwink so
many able and well-informed people for
so many years. The opposition of an “I
told you so” type which has been most
vocal lately has come almost exclusively
from people who were prepared to go
along (or in the case of Mr Ginnane, did
very little to inform the appropriate
authorities of his dangerous activities
which were “common knowledge”) with
Mr Santamaria whilst the Movement was
having successes. Now that the pendu-
lum of public popularity has temporarily
swung against M Santamaria and his
work many of these loriutr passive sup-
porters are coming to the fore as his
opponents. That these people took no
part in the organised fight against Com-
munism in the past or present does not
disturb them in the least; they apparently
prefer to fight Mr Santamaria and those
engaged with him in the continuing
struggle against Communism in our
community. The most fitting answer to
these people is the continuance of the
organisational work of opposing Com-
munism. Mr Ginnane and his associates
may be discouraged that this work is
proceeding. However, the majority of
Australians will realise —from such
resounding defeats for Communism as
the recent significant victory of un anti-
Communist in the Amalgamated
Engineering Union —that the fight against
Communism is continuing unabated, and
that Mr Santamaria is performing a
public service which no _other individual
°r group in the community has so far
shown any ability to em vak.
LETTERS
Refreshing the Short Story
Sir,
The reason why you do not get the
sort of short stories you want is that
you do not pay enough for them. The
creation of good fictional stories demands
much more than the competent craftsman-
ship which enables writers to produce
factual or even speculative and imagina-
tive articles.
In the United States a writer can live
in reasonable comfort and dignity by
producing half a dozen stories a year,
if he can sell one every couple of months
to “The Saturday Evening Post,” which,
whatever one may think of its fiction, gets
the sort it wants.
In Australia, if one could write and
sell 52 stories a year (an impossible out-
put if quality is required) one would be
struggling along at or below the basic-
wage level. The obvious result is that
gifted writers do not write short stories,
or they write few of them, or they write
them too hastily.
Rewards on the American level mean
that when a writer suffers a rejection it
is worth his while to examine the piece
of work which has not succeeded.
Here the devotion of such effort to the
perfection of an individual story would
be ridiculous, except for the amateur who
has a good income from other sources.
The system for the professional writer,
if he is to survive and pay at least some
of his bills, must be to hammer out his
yarn as quickly as possible and as well
as he can in the time. He must then
submit it to The Bulletin, and if it is
turned down to a few other possible
markets. If four or five all turn it down,
he may as well throw it away, and gel
on with something that is a surer money-
earner.
Thus the short-story writer in Australia
must be either an amateur or an over-
worked hack, and it is no good for Te:e
Bulletin or anybody else to take a lofty
attitude and disparage his efforts when he
has to work under such conditions.
GAVIN CASEY
Manning (W.A.).
Sir, ,
At last the myth of the great Australian
short story is being looked at with sober
eyes. It has always been something of a
puzzle to me why in this country the
short story is taken so seriously, especially
as other forms of writing have been
almost totally neglected
What is wrong with the Australian
short story —and the novel would come
into the same category —is the widely held
view that literature ought to be a faithful
mirror of actual life, while in fact it is an
artificial world of its own, an appendix
so to speak. Which means that literature
need not be a slave to the actual world
but is—or ought to be—excitingly free
to make fun of it, to chastise it, to satirise
it, to praise it, or to disregard it altogether.
The signs for a change for the better
are promising. Many people in this
country during the last few years have
added new dishes to their otherwise un-
imaginative diet; now we seem to be
ready to try a few new dishes for the
mind. Ray Mathew’s story in The
Bulletin (May 31) had already a new
flavor and makes one ask for more.
KURT TITZE
Geelong (Vic.).
Sir,
Although your wish to see more stories
with characters such as managing direc-
tors, professors and so on savors of
snobbery contradictory to the Australian
way of life, it is difficult to understand
your real meaning.
Do you wish to encourage the profes-
sional class as readers of your journal?
Or do you wish to provide entertain-
ment for a general reading public? Do
you know what readers want? Are you
trying to foster a new Australian litera-
ture? You suggest this when you say
that treatment of “out groups” has be-
come part of the Australian literary
tradition. Is there anything wrong with
the Australian tradition? Remember that
recent and past Australian bestsellers are
stories of the “low life.”
The majority of Australians are of
your “out group.” We read for pleasure,
and it is up to your journal to give us
that something we cannot get from films,
TV or radio. Statistics show that the
average Australian is more educated than
is thought.
H. C. SMITH
Mount Gambier (S./C).
DR MANNIX AND THE
“CATHOLIC WORKER”
Sir,
I refer to my letter concerning Dr
Mannix and the “Catholic Worker”
recently published in The Bulletin. I
would like to make it quite clear, just in
case it may be necessary to do so, that I
wrote the letter on my own motion and
without any prior consultation with the
“Catholic Worker ”
I was concerned as a private individual
to attempt to correct the false conclu-
sion which could be drawn from the part
of Mr Santamaria’s article dealing with
the subject of the banning of the “Catholic
Worker” in the Archdiocese of Mel-
bourne. It appeared to me that Mr
Santamaria presented the matter in a way
which gave no consideration at all to the
relevant facts and thus presented a false
picture of this interesting piece of con-
temporary history.
T. M. BUTLER
East Kew (Vic.).
Sir,
The facts contained in T. M. Butler’s
letter to The Bulletin of June 10


make interesting reading and, if true,
are a striking indication of Archbishop
Mannix’s forbearance with members of
his Hock who, however sincere, were
certainly mistaken in the policy they
pursued at the time.
In total, the Archbishop’s banning of
the sale of a semi-official Catholic paper
from sale at church doors was simply the
withdrawal of a privilege from that paper
which it had obviously forfeited. It
certainly did not relegate the paper, or
its officials, to an underprivileged position.
The juxtaposition of the words
“advice,” “Chaplain” and “censor” seem
to have no sinister significance. The
sentence in which they were used was a
plain statement of fact, and if these facts
had implications which Mr Butler and
his friends found distasteful, this surely
is only a demonstration of their biased
attitude.
If this is all Mr Butler can bring for-
ward to demonstrate the Archbishop's
illiberality, he would be better advised to
get on with the job of promoting sales
of the “Catholic Worker.”
H. K. PARKSTER
Melbourne.
CATHOLICS AND THE
FREE SOCIETY
Sir,
Naturally, Mr Maze did not like my
“treatment” of the recently published
symposium “Catholics and the Free
Society” since, though I heartily praised
the book as a whole, I dealt adversely
with his contribution to it.
What disconcerted me, however, about
his letter to you on the matter (B.
24/5/61) was the sense of moral outrage
with which he greeted my article. He
accused me inter alia of “vicious” and
“astonishingly corrupt” behavior as well
as of providing an example of what
seems to be his favorite anathema —
“authoritarian polemical techniques.”
This brandishing of moral language at
me was doubly startling coming as it
did from someone who thinks that moral
terms do not embody objective descrip-
tions (but merely “exhortation”) and that
their use by a person in argument is a
characteristically authoritarian symptom.
My dismay at these accusations, how-
ever, simply turned to puzzlement when
I tried to divine what the viciousness
and corruption were supposed to consist
of. So far as I can see I am supposed
to have distorted his views and to have
done so deliberately (for unless the “dis-
tortion” were deliberate it would hardly
be logically appropriate to accuse me of
viciousness, etc.). My reply is simply to
claim that so far as I can see, no dis-
tortion of any kind, deliberate or other-
wise, occurred.
Essentially, my description of his
views, as represented by the essay in
question, was that their gist might be
summed up by the proposition
“Catholics are uncritically-minded, sub-
missively childlike creatures bent on
compensating for their own personality
deficiencies by dominating others in an
authoritarian and, indeed, Fascist way.”
Admittedly, I used the usual logician’s
device of marking off the proposition I
was discussing by enclosing the sentence
embodying it within inverted commas,
and I now see that this could conceivably
have misled somebody unfamiliar with
more than one use for this notation into
thinking that the sentence was an actual
quotation from Mr Maze (despite the
fact that I used the word “gist”). I
apologise for this lack of consideration.
Nevertheless, the real point at issue is
whether or not the offending sentence
correctly represents the view it was in-
tended to summarise.
After all, he does claim that “there
is an authoritarian personality type (his
italics). The other half of his view seems
to be that Catholics are in fact such
types. This surely validates my claim
that he is talking about what he takes
to be “the Catholic personality” (the
expression I actually used in the review
and to which he objects). It is difficult
to know what to make of his charge that
I gave an “improperly expressed” version
of his material. What would count as
a “proper” version for Mr Maze? Surely
not just a repetition of his own words
in their original order? In that case a
proper “review” would presumably just
consist of a reprint of the original article
by way of commentary on itself.
W. J. GINNANE
Willoughby ( N.S.W. ).
Sir,
R. B. Lowndes (B. 10/6/61), in his
statement that “the surest way for a
country to become Communist would be
to firstly become Roman Catholic,” dis-
plays a profound ignorance of the basic
philosophies of Catholicism and Com-
munism.
In his own words “the one [group]
most vehemently anti-Communist is
Roman Catholicism.” Obviously, the
more Catholic a person or organisation
becomes the more anti-Communist are
its outlook and policies. How, then, can
the correspondent state that a country
which is Catholic in its outlook and
policies is able to make an easy step to
become Communist —the exact opposite?
Mr Lowndes bases his contradictory
statement on the argument that “authori-
tarianism is only one step from totali-
tarianism.” That may well be —if one is
speaking of a political authoritarianism.
Naturally the Church admits to being
authoritarian, because that is the truth.
But what the correspondent overlooks is
the fact that the Church never has been,
nor ever will be, a political organisation.
MICHAEL G. ANDERSEN
Brisbane.
Sir,
All thinking Australians should be
disturbed at the attempted revival by
Messrs Mackay and Lowndes (B. 24/5/61
and 7/6/611 of the propaganda line used
by Dr Evatt and others after the Petrov
trial
To save his A.L.P. leadership Dr Evatt
raised the bogy of Catholicism and its
authoritarian outlook in an attempt to
divert attention from the design of world
Communism. Messrs Mackay and
Lowndes now try to do the same.
Surely we have had more than enough
of the sectarian bitterness that was then
aroused. Only the superficial thinkers
and the uncritical can confuse the teach-
ings of Christianity, whether enunciated
by Catholics or Protestants, with the
atheism of Communism.
We must never forget that the Com-
munist party is not just another political
party. It is an instrument sharpened for
the destruction of all who oppose its goal
of world domination.
In conclusion I would add that I am
a Methodist, and proud to acknowledge
the fact.
A. W. HARTWIG
Auchenflower ( Q.).
THE ORR CASE
Sir,
When the “senior professors” could not
quell the Tasmanian University staff
rebellion in October, 1954, they joined
it as “leaders” in order to minimise the
damage. To lesser minds this ephemeral
alliance with critics of the ruling class
might have appeared as “villainy,” but
to the dangerously intelligent condottieri
of the university it must have been clear
that the real “villain” was Professor Orr,
whose letter frustrated the usual attempts
to talk until Christmas, relax until March
and work up a little temper, followed by
much pacification, next spring. All senior
professors, including Professor Taylor,
were allowed to change sides after the
Royal Commission hearing, while the real
“villains” were damned for all times.
The cross-examination of Professor
Taylor by a bullying lawyer created such
a bad impression that his further victimisa-
tion on the occasion of his illness would
have been worse than crime, political
folly. One need not restrain professor
Taylor’s gratitude for human treat-
ment that was his due, but he cannot
demand that for the sake of kindness
shown to him “fitness to hold any
academic post” be made conditional on
overlooking the injustice done to Orr,
the victimisation of many other “villains”
and discrimination even against the dis-
ciplines they teach.
F. G. N. Ewence (Bulletin, June 17)
does injustice to the scholars who have
-stood their ground and who have no
reason to be furtive about reading a book
which renews their own attacks on the
Wild Western-style administration of a
university. If it is true that “no one at
the university, no one at all, is going to
disturb this state of affairs,” why is it
necessary to dissuade newly-appointed
staff members from joining the Staff
Association?
J. B. POLYA
University of Tasmania.
Sir, t 4 „
In your review of Eddy's book, “Orr,’
you consider at some length many
important principles concerning university
inquiries and point out that it is the duty
of academics to expose cases of injustice.
Among others you ask the question:
“Should there be an attempted agreement
between the Staff Associations and the
universities as to the nature of inquiries,
with the understanding that in properly
conducted inquiries those who do not
co-operate will be dismissed?”


Judging from the experience of the
Russel Ward case there is a very real prob-
lem in obtaining an inquiry if one side
carefully avoids the issue. In this case
Dr Hartwell and I have requested an
inquiry from every body which could
conceivably have the power to conduct
one, but despite the fact that we have
both lodged statutory declarations, noth-
ing has come of our efforts. In Britain
it would be inconceivable for two senior
academics to be so completely ignored.
The recent declaration from yet another
professor who was present at the time
(see “Vestes.” June, 1961), has given Dr
Hartwell three independent supporters.
Few people, weighing this body of
support against Professor Baxter’s “flat
contradiction” of Dr Hartwell (“S.M.
Herald,” Dec. 16, 1960), are likely to have
serious doubts concerning the validity of
Dr Hartwell’s assertions. This, however,
is very different from having his veracity
established by an independent committee
of inquiry. An academic finding himself
in Dr Hartwell’s position vis-a-vis a
university Vice-Chancellor will not always
be as fortunate in having three independ-
ent witnesses able, and prepared, to
declare themselves publicly.
It is vital to the well-being of our
universities that some Federal body,
perhaps called a Disputes Committee, be
set up so that anv academic prepared to
lodge a complaint in the form of a
statutory declaration does receive due
attention. A committee nominated by the
University Staff Associations of Australia
and the Australian Universities Commis-
sion could provide an acceptable solution.
A. E. ALEXANDER
University of Sydney.
COMMUNISTS IN UNIVERSITIES
Sir,
The “Ward Case” and the article
“Melbourne University Communists at
Work” have forcibly drawn attention to
the question of employing Communists
in universities. My impression after read-
ing “Vestes” of March, 1961, certainly
supports your footnote to the letter from
Mr Wheelwright (Bulletin, April 19).
The overwhelming view of quoted
correspondence appeared to be that a
candidate’s membership of the Com-
munist party was quite irrelevant to his
fitness for a university appointment. The
official statement from the Federal Coun-
cil of the University Staff Associations
(“Vestes,” p. 68) makes it clear that the
three officials “deplore such practices
(political tests), which are not only con-
trary to established academic principles
but also harm the university concerned,
and Australian universities in general,
particularly in respect of overseas recruit-
ment.” Taken in the context of the
current discussion, this statement appears
to mean that the signatories do not con-
sider that membership of the Communist
party affects a person’s fitness for a uni-
versity appointment, and is quite irrele-
vant when considering the suitability of
an applicant.
I would suggest that the above atti-
tude no more represents the beliefs of a
large majority of university staff mem-
bers than, perhaps, did the letter from
officers of the Social Studies Students
Society of the University of Melbourne
(Bulletin, May 31).
I do not wish to discuss the details of
either controversy, but the principle
seems to me to be of vital importance.
Mr lan Turner (Bulletin, April 5) cast
doubt on many allegations that had been
made and concluded: “If Dr Knopfel-
macher can support, with credible evi-
dence, his assertion that the 0.3 per cent,
of academics who are also Communists
are as a group given to illicit methods,
faking evidence, intimidating intellectual
opponents and so on, then those of us
who are supporting the traditional posi-
tions on academic freedom have a case
to answer. Until then we haven’t.”
Mr Turner may not be aware of
Burke’s dictum, made during a period of
great political tolerance, That “the
extreme of liberty obtains nowhere, nor
ought to obtain anywhere. Liberty must
be limited in order to be possessed.”
In “Diagnosis of Our Time,” Karl
Mannheim wrote —-“Ruthless attacks (by
Communists) on the Liberal and Con-
servative intelligentsia and the persecu-
tion of the Churches are designed to
annihilate the last remnants of Christianity
and humanism and to frustrate all efforts
to bring peace to the w0r1d”.... “What
we have learned from the bitter experi-
ence of the last decades is that the mean-
ing of democratic tolerance is not to
tolerate the intolerant but that the citizen
of our Commonwealth has a perfect right
to hate and exclude those who wish to
misuse the methods of freedom for
abolishing freedom.” Karl Mannheim
probably has a much closer knowledge
of these matters than we do in Aus-
tralia.
Mr Turner’s letter (Bulletin, May 24)
makes an unhappy contrast with that
from Mr L. Short. He states that: “The
Bulletin's attack on Melbourne Uni-
versity is made without due regard for
the people and the institution concerned
and even for the evidence, and that its
primary intention is to build circula-
tion.” Much of this is largely irrelevant
to the main argument and is descending
to a very low level of academic, or any
other, debate.
As indicated in your review of Mr
Eddy’s book (Bulletin, May 311 the
article on “Melbourne University Com-
munists at Work” was much less an
attack on academics or on a university
than many actions of groups and indi-
viduals in the Orr Case, but so far as I
know, none of these have been criticised
for being anti-academic. The Bulletin,
in a very reasonable manner, performed
an important function of the press in a
free community, and I understand its
article has led to a formal inquiry into
the matters raised.
To quote Mr Turner, it would seem
that there now is “a case to answer,” and
one which supports Sir Walter Moberly’s
view that “technical qualifications, how-
ever high, will no longer be enough. If
the university stands for any definite
values the furtherance of those values
will be among the objects for which it
appoints its staff.” Probably, however,
Mr Turner is immune, both to the evi-
dence and to this point of view. His
attitude is still far too much like that
of a well-known party which “supports
freedom when it is in opposition because
it is your policy, but suppresses it when
in power because that is its own policy.”
JOHN FRANCIS
Kenmore ( Q .).
Telegram to the Editor
THE MIDDLE-CLASS
MILITANTS
Reference article “Middle-class
Militants.” Did you know John L.
Lewis, whose interests were below
ground, not above, described strikes by
our American airline pilot colleagues
as “interesting, being a war between
capitalists”? Very hurt, therefore, that
you should proclaim Australian pilots’
humble standing in the world - wide
field of aviation. Article implies
Qantas pilots only “prima donnas.”
This incorrect. All pilots prima
donnas and must be reasonably ex-
pected to object to second - rate
vaudevillian management. In accord-
ance with normal flying-bird law,
Federation considering taking action
against large number of divergentists
who have not joined the gaggle at
Pymble, Li ndfi e 1 d and Newport
Enjoyed article, but cannot match
Ansett’s 360 words.
CROFTS
Aust. Pilot.
Sir,
You must have been nodding to thank
heaven for Mr Stove. Mr Stove’s letter
(B. 10/6/61) says that we cannot escape
(a) the charge of having argued invalidly
in concluding from certain premises that
Mr Smith is a Communist, or (b) the
charge of having made a sweeping
generalisation in one of our premises in
the argument. Mr Stove, in effect, asks
us to choose which we will have: a
sweeping generalisation or an invalid
argument, as if there were no other alter-
native.
If these are the only alternatives the
“generation of university graduates who
never notice a formal fallacy except when
someone is trying to prove that so-and-so
is a Communist” are right in thinking
that action against a man alleged to be
a Communist on such evidence is unjusti-
fied. The allegation is simply not proven.
The weakness of Mr Stove’s argument
is readily demonstrated. Suppose I wish
to convince someone that Mr Smith is
mortal, and that the evidence I cite —
“Mr Smith is a man” —is not contested.
Now, the other premise of the syllogism
may be either “Everyone who is mortal
is a man” or “all men are mortal.” If
we choose to argue from a premise of
the first form our argument is bound
to be fallacious by dhdistributed middle.
(In this case, the premise is false as well,
because there are mortal beings who are
not men.) If we choose to argue from
a premise of the second form, then our
argument will be formally in order, and
the conclusion true, if the premises are
true. There is no question, as Mr Stove
seems to think there is, of our being


WORLD-WIDE
JBa
Radiator R 1
100% British Made
warmth
where you
want it...
Completely portable and self-
contained, the Tilley Radiator
brings radiant warmth to
every corner of the house.
Entirely safe; burns for 12
hours on only 1£ pints of
ordinary kerosene.
For economical warmth whenever
and wherever it’s needed, you can
put your trust in TILLEY.
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores. In case
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:—
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY PTY. LTD.
1092 Mt. Alexander Road,
Essendon, WS. Australia.
exposed to the charge of begging the
question of Smith’s mortality by making
the “wild generalisation” that anyone
who is a man, as Smith is conceded to
be, is mortal.
There is therefore an alternative which
Mr Stove does not consider namely,
that we do have true propositions in
the form “All X are Y” from which we
can argue to conclusions of the desired
type without begging the question. Mr
Stove’s problem, and the problem facing
all those who wish to identify genuine
Communists before taking action against
them, is to find a true premise of this
form.
It may be sinister of a “generation of
university graduates,” to point out
fallacies in only one type of situation,
assuming that this is true, but the
pejorative adjective does nothing to
diminish the force of their logical objec-
tion. The really dexterous thing about
Mr Stove’s argument is the suggestion
that anti-Communists may be freed, on
his conception of what a general premise
is, from the necessity of proving that
anyone whom they attack under this
banner is a Communist.
P. LOVEDAY
Sydney.
Sir,
There are rumors circulated by the
supporters of the Communists at Mel-
bourne University that Professor Hoban’s
conflicts in the Social Studies Depart-
ment were due to her alleged “difficult
personality,” though it is conveniently
forgotten that the head of the Crimi-
nology Department had similar difficul-
ties. Some people who are uncon-
nected with Communists tend to believe
this nonsense. This may be due in part
to the restricted character of the two
Bulletin articles on University Com-
munists which did not dwell on the back-
ground to the scandals in two small
departments.
It is fairly common knowledge in and
around Melbourne University that the
Social Studies and Criminology scandals
are part of a network of malpractices
perpetrated by academic Communists
and their stooges for years, with import-
ant ramifications in other university de-
partments. If these wider ramifications
were to be exposed all the waffle about
“different personalities” would look
rather silly and the rumor-mongers would
have to invent new labels.
P. O'BRIEN
Balwyn (Vic.).
IT’S HARD TO GO RIGHT
IN MELBOURNE
Sir,
K D. Gott (B. 10/6/61) correctly
points out that the five signatories to the
Nagy letter in the Melbourne “Age” were
protesting against his execution. 1 should
have quoted in full their “many of those
protesting have never complained about
comparable injustices in relation to Little
Rock, Algeria, Cyprus, the Rosenbergs or
McCarthyism.” Their contrast of other
people’s motives with their own inten-
tions was unctuous, but what made the
letter newsworthy „ was that it distorted
five issues while seeming to state the
obvious truth about a sixth. And it even
belittled that issue: if Nagy’s execution
was as warranted as that of the Rosen-
bergs who spied for a foreign Power, the
world-wide reaction of horror at his death
is reduced to a sentimental reflex.
DESMOND O'GRADY
Sydney.
PROTESTANT AUSTRALIA
TODAY
Sir,
1 received a lot of uplift from Messrs
Mansfield and Hope’s article on Pro-
testantism (B. 10/6/61). 1 was especi-
ally delighted that “the stewardship
movement gave many businessmen an
active part in Church affairs for the first
time,” arid was enthralled by the vision,
so sharply conjured up, of “the young
businessmen and professional men” who
attacked “the practical and forthright
job” of raising money so earnestly that
their new view of Christianity encouraged
them to begin “to take an interest in
the life of the congregation as a whole.”
Actually these men are getting a com-
modity at prices they themselves consider
bargain-basement. Indeed, the steward-
ship movement enables the businessman
and the professional man not only to
justify his conduct in this world but
guarantees him bliss in the next. It also
helps business and social status in this
world, with appropriate prestige in the
next, no doubt. I respectfully suggest
that if the price be raised at least tenfold,
the demand would hardly waver.
L. MACHIN
Balmain ( N.S.W. ).
POETRY TO SHAPE
Sir,
May I comment on the poetry /verse/
free-verse square that appears each week,
usually near the middle of The Bulletin.
This square (really an oblong) seems
to alter neither in size nor shape and
contains, almost invariably, two short
and one “middling” lengths of verse;
so much so, that it has become one of
the most mechanised slices of “culture
likely to be encountered in one week
of casual dabbling.
Modern verse sees the dissolution of the
arbitrary rules of the traditionalist and,
for the most part, rhythm as well. But
The Bulletin’s poetical oblong reim-
poses restriction to the budding (or not
so budding) lyricist. He must compose
to the correct shape!
Is this a good thing?
ROBERT DIXON
Enfield ( N.S.W. ).


OUT and ABOUT
SOCIETY
Jake a Little of What You
Fancy
j '
Oerhaps it is .something to know that
P the people who steal your goods are
nonetheless people of some taste. That
was the conclusion Bernard Lake and
Richard Cunningham charitably came to
after they totted up the losses incurred
jat the opening of their Craft Centre in
Sussex Street, Sydney.
Some people were content merely to
pocket the Finnish glasses in which
drinks were served. Others took a fancy
to some small pottery pieces and took
them. But the most remarkable theft
(souveniring is the usual, polite term)
was of two pieces of silver jewellery by
Macham Skipper, of Melbourne.
“I don’t know where they will wear
the jewellery,'” Dr Lake said. “The
pieces are so distinctive they'll never be
able to wear them in Sydney art circles.
Of course, whoever took the jewellery
(might have been from interstate, and
we did have some diplomats at the
party.”
The centre plans to sell pottery, glass-
ware and —when they can keep it long
enough -jewellery- Dr Lake and Mr
Cunningham hope also to have a small
permanent collection of pottery and
primitive art. The centre will also feature
he work of two artists —Richard Cun-
ningham and Bernard Lake. “We don’t
*e why we should let anyone else in on
the painting side of things,” Mr Cunning-
ham said.
The centre scooped up whatever was
tor sale in the exhibition of pottery, held
at the pottery school of the National
Art School. Much of this has already
found buyers.
“I am inclined to think that some of
the people who think it is fashionable to
buy pictures now think it is fashionable
to buy pottery,” Mr Cunningham said.
"We have mostly had large orders from
t few people so far. We would much
Prefer small orders from a lot of
people.”
Ul/y Instead of "Lolly 13
There ccv.ld be a good many squabbles
about change when, and if, Aus-
tralians eventually start making their pur-
chases in a decimal currency.
For instance, when South Africa
changed over to a decimal currency
recently there was such a shortage of
small change that housewives and
theatregoers were sometimes given small
packets of confectionery instead of coins
for change.
One man in Durban purchased his
milk each day from the corner shop and
was repeatedly given a small packet of
sweets as change. After a week of this
treatment (the sweets were probably
“humbugs”), he tendered the small
packets of sweets as payment for the
milk. The shopkeeper was reported to
be very unhappy about the “change”
circulating back to him.
The shortage of small coins in South
Africa arose out of the Government’s
failure to allow for the souveniring
instincts of the public. Everybody was
keeping the new coins as souvenirs. At
one stage a prominent Capetown group
employed 10 special people to go out on
a cent-hunt so that wage packets could
be completed.
Bring Out More Newspapers
for Lonely Migrants
'T'he lone crusader, who has been
•*- scrawling ‘"Bring out more females
for lonely migrants” alongside the
copperplate “Eternity” signs on Sydney’s
footpaths, has had some success in his
campaign. The Immigration Department
is planning to bring out more women
from Europe. In the meantime, what
does a lonely migrant do ? The chances
are he stays at home and reads a news-
paper, preferably a newspaper written in
his own language.
An Australian woman was waiting for
a friend near the bookstall at the G.P.0.,
which carries large stocks of foreign-
language papers. She glanced through
the newspapers and in the ten minutes or
so of waiting three men, entirely polite
and friendly, tried to strike up an
acquaintanceship. Each time, apparently,
she happened to be looking at a news-
paper written in their language.
If there are any females who want to
make migrants less lonely, the book-
stands carrying foreign newspapers is
certainly the place to begin.
Literary Delight
“southerly,” the magazine of the
Sydney English Association, in an
article entitled “Our Literature in
Chains,” says: “The verse was accom-
“ He's lost his cotton-reel.. .!"
panied by a ‘curious and ingenious
Anagram’ on the name Napoleon Bona-
parte ; it read: BONA RAPT A PONE
LENO. The English of which is
‘Plunderer, lay down your spoil!’ This
is the sort of thing that delighted Howe.”
Yes, it is delightful.


Just Call it "The Old Club "
Here is a thought for all those Aus-
tralians who were sending thousands
of pounds’ worth of crackers sky high
last month, to celebrate Commonwealth
Day :
“We have now to acknowledge that the
Commonwealth is not, and will never
become, a solid and coherent entity like
the European Economic Community.
The old club has some value and need
not break up, if only because its prac-
tical links are so tenuous. But it must no
longer be used as a pretext for shirking
our manifest duty and destiny in Europe.”
Lord Altrincham in “The Spectator.
"I Loves Ya !"
'T'he Melbourne “Sun” offers this
sample of the language Australians
are now speaking, or, at least, reading :
“All this week Essendon has been sing-
ing a new theme song . . . “Nobody loves
me, I -wonder why? (Flow dumb can
you be! Everyone else knows the reason.)
But you’re wrong ... I loves ya!” It took
two journalists to write that.
Collectors' Corner
Apparently the question you never ask
a philatelist is how many stamps he has.
He doesn’t know, because he never-
bothers to count them. If he did begin
counting he would probably have bought
some more stamps before he had reached
the total.
This was made clear by an enthusiast
at the Royal Sydney Philatelic Club’s
70th anniversary exhibition in Sydney.
Fifty thousand pounds worth of stamps
were on show, including an 1845 Lady
McLeod Trinidad stamp, valued at £BOO,
and a King Charles the First of England
cover-letter.
Scarcity is not the only factor in
raising the price of stamps. It is simply
that philatelists like some stamp issues
more than others. At the moment,
Ghana stamps are low in popularity. The
feeling among many philatelists is that
Ghana has issued some series of stamps,
merely as a money-making enterprise,
and in stamps this sort of thing simply
isn’t done.
The Little Foxes
'T'he latest vogue among the Porsch-
and-Palm-Beach set is, apparently, to
keep a young fox* as a pet. You first
catch your fox during a visit to the
country. Then you visit the iocal vet.,
who will remove the gland which
accounts for most of the fox's viciousness,
and which also might make it the object
of the attentions of every dog—and every
fox-hunter—in the district.
“It’s so nice to come home to,” was-
the comment of one new fox-owner.
Wrong Pitch
“'T'ecere seem to be quite a few chinks in
-*■ our technique,” an English cricket
broadcaster complained when England
was out for only 195 in the first test.
Australian listeners, unacquainted with
cricket jargon, may have thought he was
being impolite about the Chinese music
which pushed its way into the cricket
broadcast on all five days of the test, and
once became so obtrusive that the cricket
broadcast had to be suspended.
ARTIFICES
“The Blue Mountains City Council (N.S.W.)
supports a proposal for an artificial ski run on
the Blue Mountains. Alderman McNiven said
he understood it required only a gentle slope,
plastic blocks hosed wtih water, and a ski lift. ’
Where Katoomba tourists capture,
Paying artificial prices,
Scenes of artificial rapture,
Little real snow or ice is;
Aldermen, enthusiastic,
Want an artificial ski run
Taking tourists down on plastic
With a ski lift for a re-run.
Yet while artificial skiers revel,
Artificially sweeping
On an artificial level
Far less crude than Govett’s Leaping,
Some will wonder prejudicially
That there has been no endeavor
To make winter artificially,
Ending bushfires there for ever.
That was Society
These are joyous times in the tram-
car industry, and bursts of humor are
mingled with objurgations. Sydney hav-
ing no city railway of any kind —ground
level, dead level, elevated, top-storey,
subterranean- or otherwise—depends al-
most wholly on trams. It being impossible
to get sufficient tramcars into the available
space to hold all passengers in an orderly
fashion, people began to stand inside.
Then they stood on the footboards, first
in one row and then in two. About
this time conductors began to fall off and
get killed while trying to collect fares,
or to get the sack for failing to collect
fares. So they shut down on the foot-
board riders, or tried to, but as one
conductor can’t fight 37 outside passengers
the only recourse was the. good old
strike. One-evening recently about half
a mile of tramcars were held up because
one obstinate footrider wouldn’t get off.
It wasn’t legal to kill him, and the con-
ductor declined to move till he left.
Things of that sort add to the mirth of
the community, but they also make the
community very late lor dinner.
— “Bulletin,” September 5, 1912.
Sydney CATHOLIC PRESS (its
machinery was blessed by the Cardinal
when it started) is the latest paper to
follow John Norton’s example of printing
sensationally “spicy” matter in the good
old guise of Moral Reform. “Girls and
their Boys! Company-Keeping! The Road
to Ruin!” is the enticing heading of an
article in the current issue. It contains
a graphic description of the yloings of
the girls and their “boys” when spooning
on the benches in the park. “The endear-
ments common to sweethearts,” moralises
this consecrated purifier of the social
atmosphere, “follow as a matter of course,
and with the kisses and caresses the
sweet bloom of maiden modest) is blown
away.” “If it ends at this it is bad
enough,” continues the CONSECRATED
PRESS, “but in too many cases this is
only the prologue to many shameful
chapters.” But why in the name of
morality does the PRESS linger so over
details calculated to fire the imagination
of the girl still burdened with that
“bloom of maiden modesty,” and make
her curious as to how and where she can
have it blown off while she waits? The
Bulletin will presently start a really
smart religious paper —one that’s not too
transparent. — “Bulletin,” July 6, 1901.
There are at present 39 Colonels in
Victoria, of whom fully three or four
have seen a shell other than on the sea-
shore. — “Bulletin,” July 27, 1901.


COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
CENSUS
29th/30th June, 1961
A Census will be taken on the Night
between Thursday, 29th June, and Friday,
30th June, 1961, and all persons in the
Commonwealth are required to furnish the
particulars specified in the Census Form.
An authorised Collector will leave a
Census Form at each dwelling on or before
Thursday, 29th June, and will call for the
completed Form on or shortly after Friday,
30th June.
Any person who has not received a
Census Form by Census Night must attend
on Friday, 30th June, at the nearest Post
OfSce or Police Station and complete the
necessary Form.
All information furnished in the Census
Form, or given to a Collector, will be treated
as strictly confidential.
If required. Census Collectors will render
assistance in completing the Census Form.
S. R. CARVER
Commonwealth Statistician
PENALTY
[For Refusing to Supply the Re-
-j quircd Information £lO
[For Wilfully Untrue Statement . . £5O
C 1.52.51
SOME OF THE PEOPLE
COR six years Ernie Turner has lived
* in a park at Alexandria (Sydney),
his house an ancient bus. But last week
he was forcibly moved to another part
of the park, because he had been living
too close to the railway’s produce sheds
(where Ernie supplies himself, free, with
electricity and water). From his new
address, Ernie complained: “I have
squatter's rights.” “But,” he added, “I
wasn’t going to argue with a bulldozer
and a crane. They arrived with a dirty
great bulldozer, picked up my house
with a mobile crane and dumped me
over here.”
Created a Dato by Malaya’s Yang di-
Pertuan Agong in his birthday honors
list was W. H. Wilcock, Governor of
the Bank Negara, who was an honorary
recipient of the Panglima Manku Negara
(Knight of the Most Distinguished Order
of the Defender of the Realm). Before
going to Malaya in 1958 to help establish
the Bank Negara, Wilcock was Assistant
Governor (Administration) of Australia's
Commonwealth Bank.
In Australia's first go-kart champion-
ship. held at Caringbah (Sydney), Norm
Chipperfield scooted home a narrow
winner from Ray Morris.
Mrs Dorothy Murray, of Newcastle
(N.S.W.), has bought a Spitfire fighter-
plane, and intends to use it as a flying
memorial to Battle of Britain pilots. Her
brother, A. J. Oates, who was an
R.A.A.F. Squadron Leader, will fly the
Spitfire at charity functions and, if
requested, in ceremonial fly-pasts.
Adelaide teenagers, asked to comment
on a suggestion that they should help
at home when they “had nothing to do,”
weren't too sure it was a good idea.
Hairdressing apprentice Helen Knight
said teenagers “do their fair share of
work during the week and should have
Saturdays and Sundays off to enjoy
themselves.” And Arts student Jan
Priestley was even more emphatic; “We
didn’t ask to be born,”, said Jan, “and
it’s the parents’ responsibility to look
after us and, if necessary, deny them-
selves some comforts.”
American “suitcase king,” Hugo
Napoleon Surmonte, displayed a hearten-
ing sense of values when he flew into
Melbourne last week. “I am not a multi-
millionaire,” he said, “just a simple
millionaire.”
Gladys Wallace is the only woman
ever to hold office on Caulfield (Mel-
bourne) Council, and has held every
position on the council except one. Now
she has the opportunity to get that last
post. She has just married fellow-coun-
cillor Leslie Machin, which puts her in
line for Lady Mayoress.
At an Inverell (N.S.W.) meeting which
discussed the need for a dam on the
Severn River, Conservation Minister
Enticknap said the State was spending
far too much on education in comparison
to water conservation, that it was no
good educating people if they couldn't
be fed. But he added: “I would be torn
to pieces if I said this in Sydney.”
In Fleetfun 111, a 14-foot catamaran
powered by two outboard motors, owner
Len Sheltrum, trials driver “Gelignite”
Jaek Murray and water-polo star Keith
Whitehead smashed the Sydney to New-
castle sea record by more than an hour.
On the same day in 1931 that the
“Southern Cloud” crashed in the Alps
C-n a flight from Sydney to Melbourne,
Captain G. U. “Scotty” Allan flew a
similar Fokker plane from Melbourne
to Sydney through the bad weather. At
the end of June Allan will retire, after
a flying career that began in 1917 with
the Royal Fying Corps and included
service in the two World Wars, the
inaugural A.N.A. flight from Sydney to
Brisbane with Kingsford Smith in 1930,
and 26 years as pilot and executive with
Qantas.
Denying that Federal Government
censors had placed any limits on a book
called “Homosexuality,” Penguin Books
manager J. S. Heaps said the title was
“a little misleading.”
Minister for Labor McMiahon an-
nounced on Monday that Australia’s
unemployment figure had passed the
100,000 mark. But good news came
from Melbourne, where stockbroker
Staniforth Ricketson told a shareholders’
meeting that the time was ripe to buy
good shares, with conditions changing
for the better.
Into the Silence:—
la Adelaide, at 67, Rex Whaddon Parsons,
recently retired director of the South Australian
institute of Technology.
Tn Sydney, at 85, Joseph Arthur Porter,
“SpiniXex” of Tjhe Bulletin. Porter, who
alter returning from the Boer War served for
25 years with the N. S. Wales Mounted Police,
lived just long enough to' see the publication
of his last book, “Roll the Summers Back.”
At Rockhampton (Q.), Mrs Adela Worboys,
an outstanding horsewoman who had. ridden
at shows for 45 years.


FOR THE CONSUMER
The Beautified
Bathroom
/Tne of the critical cliches about Aus-
tralia is that the hotel bars with their
tiled walls and floors look exactly like
bathrooms. It is hardly surprising, asso-
ciation of ideas being what it is, that Aus-
tralian bathrooms with their tiled walls
and floors seem as stark and cheerless as
hotel-bars.
At any rate, some English and Ameri-
can bathrooms with their cotton-carpeted
floors and papered walls seem more in-
teresting and more imaginative than the
Australian tiled cell.
Of course, many Australians have
strong objections to carpeted bathrooms.
They say that even cotton carpeting is
unhygienic and impractical when the
owner of the bathroom wallows around
under a shower, and no shower-curtain
can contain the splashes. Some English
bathrooms do tend' to be rather “thing”
with Oriental lamps, Florentine gilt
carving and even velvet curtains.
However, in our wonderful world of
created wants, there are now lots of things
available in Australian shops to give the
bathroom a more “lived-in” look. Most
of these things are very pretty, some are
extremely fragile and some are very,
expensive.
The most frequently-seen bathroom
accessories in the shops are series of glass
jars, some of which would do equally well
in the kitchen. Some, labelled “Thallium”
or “Cyanide,” in the whimsical manner
of the gift shoppes, might have only
limited use.
If you really want pretty jars in your
bathroom, the best thing is to regard
them purely as decoration. Few Austra-
lians have a bath (as opposed, of course, I
to a shower) often enough to warrant vast
quantities of bath salts, and these, gener-
ally, are more sensible and practical as
individually-wrapped cubes. These days
most lotions, powders and other cosmetics
come in soft plastic containers and
special aerosol dispensers. “Decanting”
them would be an extremely wasteful and
tedious job. If your jars are transparent
you can put pretty colored cotton-wool
balls or guest-size cakes of soap in them.
There are some pleasant, locally-made
jars modelled on the classic apothecary
shapes. American ones are rather lavishly
decorated with gilt and rather more ex-
pensive than those from Europe.
There are some pretty jars in opaque
glass from Germany ; others in simulated
alabaster from Italy. Perhaps the most
popular and versatile of all is milk glass,
either white or blue. The best still comes
from France, but it has been copied by
nearly everybody.
Almost certainly the most expensive
bathroom ware available in Australia is
Porcelaine de Paris. Even tiny dishes
and boxes, printed with reproductions of
Redoute roses, cost up to £lO. The jars,
when they are available, are just not the
sort of thing to leave anywhere where
the end of a towel could flick them onto
a tiled floor.
Once you have an array of bottles —
although where you put them, other than
on the cistern, is a problem in the average
suburban bathroom—you can spend some
more money on the waterproofed and
hand-painted waste - paper and linen-
basket sets, most of which are locally-
made. Add to these a matching toilet-
brush stand and a cover for paper tissues,
and you have spent about another £2O.
Some of the shops have soiled-linen
baskets from the United States in printed,
quilted plastic at around £2O.
The bathroom, of course, is one place
where you can’t .move furniture around
to suit a whim. However, for those who
have a little spare space there is now a
variety of vanity tables. Some in glass
and wrought iron would take very little
space and might enable a woman to get
her messy make-up out of the bedroom.
More prevalent—and almost inevitably
more popular—are tables, incorporating
a wash-basin and covered with a plastic
laminate. The color of the plastic is in-
variably slightly different from the colors
of tiles available, but as the colors of
wall tiles rarely match floor tiles exactly
(even when made by the same people) this
is unlikely to worry the majority of Aus-
tralians. These vanity tables are practical
if not beautiful.
Martin Boyd has for some years been
making some pretty wash-basins and other
bathroom accessories, trailing ivy or
apple blossom. Some recently-imported
baths and basins have fish and other sea-
creatures printed on them.
The fashion of incorporating the wash-
basin or basins in a marble- or tile-topped
bench is, of course, merely a revival. It
seems to have come back into popularity
first in America, where twin-basins set in
a mosaic or marble bench are now a
must in all the most-photographed bath-
rooms:. They look very good, but in the
average family only waterproof objects
can be placed within a 10-yard radius of
a small boy washing.
Nothing in Store
HThese days few shopkeepers refer to
. their business as a shop. It is always
called a store. However, as we are deal-
ing in simple words, a shop may be
merely a place where goods are bought
and sold, but a store carries the implica-
tion that something or other is stored


there. And, frankly, this is just what the
shops, which now call themselves stores,
are failing to do.
It will all be put down to the credit
squeeze, of course. Before last November
it was apparent that many large shops,
in the first flush of freedom from import
restrictions, had bought too heavily in
many lines. Now the shrinkage of stock
has been far too drastic and far too
general.
A Sydney woman who recently under-
took the furnishing of a flat discovered
that in almost every instance the piece
of furniture or appliance on display was
virtually the only one of its kind on the
premises. Everything she chose had to
be procured from the manufacturers,
resulting in endless delays and endless
uncertainties.
Surely a customer who goes into a
shop, sees a chair she likes and says, “I’ll
take that,” should be reasonably sure
that that chair, or a similar one, is avail-
able to her right there and then. Or if
it is not available, that the shop assist-
ant should say so, not just say that
delivery may be about seven days, or
something equally vague.
A local furniture manufacturer (who
faces the choice of anonymity or bank-
ruptcy) says that his firm and similar
firms have become.merely storage places
for the big city shops.
“You would be surprised at the small
stock the shops are actually carrying,”
he said. “Sometimes if a customer orders
even something quite small the shop will
ring me and order one. They won't let
their heads go and place an order. They
expect me to deliver one to them. We
are just providing the shops with floor
space they should be providing for
themselves. They are carrying little stock,
and it seems they don't intend to. They
are making their profits without carrying
out their responsibilities to the public,
and the public puts up with it.”
There may, at the present time, be
some excuse for shops cutting their
quantities on major appliances and
major items of furniture, but they seem
to be doing little better with quite inex-
pensive fashion goods.
A woman who went to buy winter '
slippers at a large city shop at the be-
ginning of winter found that, although
the shop had about 20 pairs handsomely
displayed, they could show her none in
her fitting. This was at the very begin-
ning of the season when, as the shops
always advertise, “a full range is avail-
able.”
The shop assistant suggested that she
come back before Mother’s Day, when
the assistant hoped the full range would
—fleetingly, perhaps—be available. It
wasn’t, and it still isn’t.
FOR THE OBSERVER
When No News
Is Good News
/"Vnk of the assertions of American
Vance Packard in his “The Waste
Makers” (a waste product if ever there
was one) is that the pioneers of obsoles-
cence-creating techniques were in the
women’s dress industry, which, he claims,
is now geared to perennial change, and
hence, perennial demand for new clothes.
Fashion. Packard says, by 1960 was
running through a full cycle every seven
to 10 years.
If Mr Packard had for a moment taken
his head out of his filing cabinets, and
made a brief study of something other
than newspaper clippings, he might have
noted that within the past four or five
years this fashion theory has fallen flat
on its face.
The great news in fashion for 1961 is
that there is no news. There has been no
major change in fashion, in Paris or any-
where else, for several years, other than
that skirts are shorter. But, as every-
one, even Mr Packard, knowsf it’s a
relatively simple matter to take up your
hemlines.
From 1947, when Christian Dior intro-
duced the New Look, until the middle
fifties, there certainly were many rapid
changes in fashion, many of which
gained very wide acceptance. This was
probably a period of stress for many
husbands and wives, although not many
men were driven as far as the Texan who
threatened to fly to Paris and shoot Dior.
Now women, unaccountably and quiie
capriciously, have gone back to wearing
clothes instead of following fashion.
More importantly, from the point of view
of the average husband, women have gone
back to wearing their clothes until they
are worn out. Paris, perforce, has gone
back to making clothes instead of making
news.
Almost everything which even the pace-
setting woman is wearing had its origins
in fashion several years ago. Mrs John
Kennedy is at present the white hope of
the American fashion industry, and she
may take up some of the slack in the
dress trade. But, in point of fact, the
fashions which she favors are by
Givenchy, c. 1959, out of Balenciaga,
C. 1957. The wide neckline, kimono-
sleeved silhouette she wears has been
from Paris right through high and low
fashion in Italy, and back to Paris, during
the past five years.
The slim evening dress which Mrs
Kennedy wore when she met the Queen
was being revived by Pierre Balmain in
Paris in 1957, and he had unashamedly
stolen the idea from Balenciaga, who had


been doing the same thing for a couple
of seasons. If Mr Packard’s theory of
a seven-year cycle were correct, the
Queen’s crinolines would be well on their
wav back into fashion, and Mrs Kennedy’s
style would be on its way out ; but, as
the English press has said in some sorrow,
the Queen’s fashions are way, way out.
This hiatus in fashion is world-wide,
but it is perhaps more marked in Aus-
tralia, where, let’s face it, we trail the
field more than we care to admit (some
of those visitors who declare that Aus-
tralian women are the best-dressed in the
world are appraising the contents rather
than the package).
This year any Australian woman could
walk abroad in clothes she has had for
several years, and nobody would notice,
and nobody, least of all herself, would
care She may take her hemlines up a
couple of inches, but after that she is
ready to face the world.
The sack came out in the middle-fifties,
and was more popular than ever in 1960.
The Chanel-style suit came in in the
middle-fifties and is still the newest line
in suits. Slim slacks have been with us
ever since Italy first got a big slice of
the sportswear market in the early fifties.
Pointed-toe shoes first came out in Italy
and France in the early fifties. The first
bikini was sold by a Sydney shop in 1946.
Nowadays the most drastic changes of
fashion are among teenagers. Most of
these changes are discernible only to the
teenagers. They know when black stock-
ings are smart, when duffle coats are out
and when Indian-blanket skirts are in
style. But teenagers don’t represent a very
exclusive or expensive market, after all.
Why did the fashion cycle, which was
spinning so fast, suddenly grind to a halt?
There were probably several reasons.
First, after the death of Christian Dior in
1957 there was no one person who meant
front-page fashion. Every news-editor in
the world knew that what Christian Dior
said and designed made hard news.
It is not easy to see why this should
have been so. Dior was a very clever
designer, and he had the enormous back-
ing of French textile millionaire Boussac.
Somehow the combination, plus the post-
war atmosphere worked. Although
devotees of high fashion have always said
Balenciaga was a much better designer
than Dior, Balenciaga's public relations
were never so good.
Since Dior’s death the fashion house
has gone on with first Yves St Laurent
and now Marc Bohan, but the impact is
not the same.
Another thing is that even Dior had
some duds, and lesser designers are un-
willing to undertake the initial financial
risk which a complete change of style
involves. What will happen if they
design ankle-length Empire-line sacks and
nobody buys them? So the designers
play safe and make something they know'
their customers will like. The buyers
play safe and take back to their shops
something they know will sell well.
Also, the dress trade found that con-
stant changes may have made wealthy
women buy new wardrobes every season,
but they just made the average woman
discontented and even less interested in
fashion that she might otherwise be.
SPORT
Wanted—Some
Fanatics
CTort does not have a rich supply of
champions these days, probably
because the players' approach to games
is now so rarely powered by the quite
fanatical kinds of self-preparation to
which many an old-time champion used
to submit. Furious monk-like dedication
and self-demandingness have gone out of
fashion among sportsmen.
As a result, sport, aside from golf,
swimming and track and field athletics,
has deteriorated. Few very great cham-
pions have emerged since the war.
1 make an exception of goffers, swim-
mers and athletes because the youngsters
involved dedicate themselves to success.
And they are succeeding in grea t er
numbers than ever before But this is not
the case in other sports. Maybe it is
because money in most of these other
sports is too easy to get. There is plenty
of money in golf, too. However, the
amount of money a golfer earns depends
on his skill to win matches. To achieve
a high standard a golfer must work hard,
very hard, to perfect his skill.
The great pre-war champions, in all
sports, worked hard. You seldom hear
of today’s youngsters working as the
youth of the past did to mould a game
that would lead them to star success.
And some of the things the past cham-
pions did could well frighten off many
a modern youngster from the huge per-
sonal battles that must be fought for
glory.
Take Australia’s Walter Lindrum, for
instance. This man, the greatest billiards
player the world has known, practised
eight hours a day. He observed a planned
diet, never smoked and took long walks
every day. Famous British golfei Henry
Cotton, one of the most intelligent sports -
men the world has known, is another who
climbed to the top by hard work and
attention to detail. He gave up smoking.
He even gave up drinking tea and coffee
because he felt he was better without. He
dieted strictly and did nothing but “live”
golf. Even on holidays he played golf at
least four hours a day. And the story of
Cotton’s success is an epic of determina-
tion. He made immense demands on
himself in order to reach the top.
Suzanne Lenglen, famous French tennis
player of the 19205, is another classical
example of the hard, grind necessary to
make a real champion. She rose to the
top mainly because of her uncanny
control of the tennis ball. Her father was
determined that she should be the world’s
greatest woman tennis player—and she
was. He would drop a handkerchief on
some particular spot and make Suzanne
hit it with the particular stroke she was
then practising until she could score three
times out of five. Pere Lenglen was a
stern taskmaster. Nothing short of per-
fection would satisfy him.
Dorothy Round, Britain’s outstanding
woman tennis player of the 19305, also
realised the value of accuracy. In her
early days she used to clout a ball for
hours on end in order to achieve ball
control. The remarkable accuracy she
eventually attained enabled her to twice
win the Wimbledon women’s singles.
Australia’s Sir Donald Bradman was
supreme among cricket artists. He had
that amazing footwork which singles out
the champion from the very good players.
He was an excellent example of the
natural athlete who moulded himself into
a star by means of hard work. When
Sir Donald was a boy he played alone a
lot. He would hurl a golf bail against
a wall and hit it on the rebound with a
thin stick. This he would do for hours.
He was never satisfied until he could hit
the ball three times out of every four
attempts. No wonder he could eventually
strike a bigger ball with a much wider
bat more easily than other men.
Another wonderful cricketer, West
Indies Leary Constantine —probably the
greatest fieldsman ever—used to spend
hours throwing at a single stump and
practising how to pick up and throw in
one action. Prince Ranjitsinhji, one of
the all-time great batsmen, had a super-
normally quick eye and supple wrists.
He would begin net-practice a month
earlier than other cricketers and he paid
professionals to bowl at him for hours a
day. He would place a sovereign on top
of each stump, and the professional who
knocked them off would take the money.
A sovereign meant a lot to a professional
in those days. But sometimes a month
would pass before one of the professionals
managed to hit one of Ranjitsinhji s
stumps. No wonder Ranjitsinhji stood
head and shoulders above the other bats-
men of hisdime.
What, other than hard work, made
Australian mile runner Herb Elliott the
great champion of sport in the world
today? Elliott has a lot of natural
ability. But it was long hours of running
in the sand dunes at Portsea, Victoria,
which gave him the muscles to break
four minutes for the mile time and time
again..
Other athletes work just as hard. So
do the top-class swimmers. That is why
athletes and swimmers continue to lower
record after record. But the people in
other sports don’t measure up to their
predecessors. They don’t know the mean-
ing of hard work.
GEORGE CRAWFORD


WHEN YOU FLY BOAC
WW&
T**
52
WM
yzzmmm
'M'y
■% *
$&
* * r *
Hi
JL
WHf&E, II
spssggss
&>
p*
J.
8
OM*
■A
BEIRUT:
Gateway to the Middle
East and Europe ! An
exhilarating cocktail of
gaiety and sunshine —and
nearby the giant Cedars of Lebanon,
ancient palaces, Arab fortresses,
Crusader ports and marble ruins.
■ I±
Beirut
ON THE MEDITERRANEAN
BEIRUT: *
Gateway to the Middle
East and Europe! An
exhilarating cocktail of
gaiety and sunshine —and
nearby the giant Cedars of Lebanon,
ancient palaces, Arab fortresses,
Crusader ports and marble ruins.
At no extra fare on your way to Europe and London
Discover an entirely new world of travel enjoyment as you
fly by BOAC Comet Jetliner to London. Relax on an ex-
citing “Mediterranean Stopover” in fascinating Beirut. Or
holiday in Italy, or Switzerland, or France. Take your choice
of stopovers at NO extra air fare en route to London —in
the Orient, the Middle East or from amongst 31 cities in
Continental Europe.
The way to do it? Fly BOAC Jetliner to London ... the
stopover way ... for as little as £558 return Economy class,
or ten per cent, down on BOAC’s “fly now—pay later”
plan. Stopover at other cities on the return trip, or fly right
round the world Tor just a few pounds more. But fly in the
finest jetliner comfort, with incomparable BOAC service to
make your trip complete.
6 Comet Jet Services Weekly from Sydney-3 from Melbourne
For full details of BO ACs new low fares, stopover facilities,
and “fly-now-pay-later” plan, consult your local BOAC
appointed Travel Agent or any office of Qantas or BOAC.
BOM
WORLD LEADER IN JET TRAVEL
British Overseas Airways Corporation in association with Air-India, Qantas (BO AC General Sales Agents for Australia) and TEAL


ABORIGINALITIES
The Legend
of Diamond
A lexander Vosper, a caste-aboriginal,
is the best repository of tribal
history, mythology and lore I have
encountered in this State. The following
story is an example of his retentive
memory for the history of his people
and the early white settlers of the Lis-
more, Casino and Kyogle districts of
N.S.W.:
Old Diamond [said Alexander Vosper]
was a notable aboriginal of the Lismore
and Richmond River districts. He was
employed at Sandylands Station away
back in 1880. And the time came when
he thought about visiting his tribes-
people. His boss said that he could go,
but that he was to return because they
could not do without him. And so
Diamond left for Kyogle and the Rich-
mond River district.
In the meantime an aboriginal from
Tabulam was out hunting for porcupine.
He found the body of a Chinaman i:i
a hollow log at Bottle Creek, between
Sandylands and New Bonalbo. There
was a gold rush at these places in those
times and Chinamen notable pros-
pectors in those early days. He was
attacked at Bottle Creek and all his gold
was taken and his body put into a
hollow log,
This aboriginal who found the China-
man reported the matter to Jordon, who
was the manager of Tabulam Station,
Jordon was concerned about it and sent
a letter by messenger to the police
sergeant at Casino. The police went up
to Bottle Creek, assisted by Jordon and
his aboriginal servants, and found the
body. The police turned to the aborigines
and said: “You must have murdered this
man! ” The aborigines were confused
and said: “We didn’t murder the China-
man, some other person must have
done it.”
Then the police found out that
Diamond had left Sandylands Station
and they accused him of the murder.
The aborigines also accused Diamond.
At Casino they formed a team with some
of the townspeople. “Well,’ they said,
“we’ll have to go up and get him.”
So they asked Billy Brown, the tracker,
which was the best way to attack the
You ask , ‘What was your father like?' — tasteless , indigestible , but filling !"
camp at Kyogle. Billy said: “We must
travel by night so that no one will know
that we are coming to get him.” So they
left Casino and came to the cemetery in
Kyogle and waited there. At daylight
they surrounded the camp. They sang out
and roused the camp. And the camp
sang out: “Oh, we’re surrounded by the
police! ”
The police sang out: “We’re only after
Diamond. Don’t be stirred up.” The
camp said: “He’s over there.” Diamond
was fast asleep in his blankets. One of
his friends said to him in the language:
“Look out! Here’s the police after you.”
Diamond picked up a blanket and
covered himself with it and started to
run. The police called: “Surrender, or
we fire!” But Diamond made towards
the stockyards with the blanket flowing
over his head. They fired shots at him,
but Diamond ran on. They were right
on his heels.
Now, Diamond was a Wee-un, a
clever-feller, with the power to disappear.
But he couldn’t disappear while the
women of the camp were looking at
him. He had to get behind something
first. Where they had cleared the bush
for the stockyards, cockspurs had sprung
up. When Diamond came to the cock-
spurs he left the blanket behind him.
He went in underneath the cockspurs
and disappeared at the same time. And
when the police went looking round the
yard for him there was no more
Diamond.
The covered the yard. When they
couldn't see him the Sergeant said: “Go
and get a mattock. There must be a
hole here somewhere. He couldn't just
disappear.” But Billy Brown the tracker
said: “Don’t be silly, Sergeant. He’s
gone. He’s away over on the Table-Top
Range. He’s miles away by this.” Then
the sergeant said: “Oh well, if the devil
is that clever and quick, we’re not going
to interfere. We’ll go back to Casino
and if Jordon wants him, he can get
him.”
At Casino the sergeant told Jordon
what had happened. Jordon said: “We’ll
get him. We'll get a team of abos to
get him.” So the sergeant said: “I give
you full permission, under the name of
Queen Victoria.”
After getting the authority, Jordon
returned to Tabulam and mobilised his
aborigines. In those days every station
had a team of aborigines in military
clothes. They had a red stripe down
their trousers. So Jordon marched with
his troop to get Diamond. He rode in
front, dressed in military clothes, hold-
ing the British flag on a pole. I suppose
he was the first British soldier to march
across Australia. I’d like to have seen
’em. Those old muzzle - loaders and
Martini-Henrys they had, they wouldn’t
fire. You had to load ’em at the muzzle,
and if you weren’t quick loading, the
other man would be on top of you.
Jordon had a big kind of lord’s hat
on his head. They were real comedians
in those days. There he was, riding at
the head of his aboriginal army to get
the Master of the Mountains. The
aborigines were barefoot and they were
marching behind, singing sacred songs to
paralyse their victim. It must have been
a queer old sight. When Billy Brown,


the tracker, told me about it I couldn’t
stop laughing.
If you climb up Richmond Range in
your car you’ll find out how high it is.
That’s where they marched, and it was
only a coach and wagon track then.
Their first stop was at Drabba Station,
the property of Barnes Brothers. The
station was surprised when they saw this
troop marching up. When the army
came to a halt Mr Barnes himself asked
what all the concern was about. “We’re
after a murderer, old Diamond.” said
Jordon. “Who has he murdered?” asked
Barnes. “Why, a Chinaman,” Jordon
told him.
While the army was at Drabba Station,
Barnes sent a messenger to notify Mr
Close at Kyogle Station that Jordon was
coming with his troop. Close then sent
a messenger to Runnymede Station for
stockmen to come to assist him. He also
sent to Whyangry Station.. And so they
were all prepared at Kyogle Station to
meet the attack. Mr Close was informed
also how the army was dressed and
armed.
Next day, about 10 a.m., from the
centre of the town, they saw the troop
marching down to the foot of the hill.
Soon as the troop entered the flat Close’s
men came up out of the river to meet it.
Close, who was the leader, was dressed
in British military style. He had a British
flag on a pole. And as they advanced
to meet each other, Mr Close stood the
flag in the ground and sang out to
Jordon: “Stand, if you come any further,
you'll cause us to attack! Who gave you
permission to come here and trespass on
my property?”
“A creme-de-menthe and soda, please !”
Jordon called: “We’ve got police per-
mission under the name of the Queen.' 5
Close said: “Well, I command you in
the name of the Queen to return to where
you came from immediately.”
Then Jordon said: “Oh well, we'll
make a peace.”
Close said: “Diamond is not a mur-
derer because when he came here he
was calm and showed no effect of crime.
It must have been done by some of your
people, or you yourself did it for the
sake of the gold.” Close was into
Jordon then. “If Diamond were guilty
the aborigines here would know, but
they say he’s innocent.”
Some of Close’s aborigines told the
aborigines from Tabulam that they had
no right to have come with Jordon. “If
it comes to fight in the tribal law, we
will mix it with you and not a man
of you will return to Tabulam ” And
so both the armies respected the British
flag. They made friends and Jordon
returned to Tabulam.
Diamond wasn’t arrested. He stopped
with Close for some length of time and
then returned to Sandylands. He came
to Stony Gully when the aboriginal
station was opened there, and he returned
to his home at Tabulam highly respected
by the aborigines who had accused him.
And when Diamond died the aborigines
there mourned for him for many days.
ROLAND ROBINSON
That Was the Country
It’s a difficult thing to stop a country
dance. You can set one going with a
one-lunged accordion or a sciatic piano,
a clay floor and four couples, but you
can’t stop it short of calling out the
artillery. There was a raffle at Long’s and
the terpsichorean gyrations were set in
action at seven in the evening. An hour
later Long’s big black bull, infuriated
by the wailings of Meeghan’s fiddle,
charged the wattle-and-daub dining-room
and hit a hole through Long’s humble
home that you could back a cab into.
It took seven men to extract Tarball by
the tail. One set of the Lancers was
upset and sprained by the bull rush.
The rest resumed its contortions. The
candles in the ingenious chandelier
dripped copiously, but none of the dancers
objected till the candles reached the
paper that held them in the sockets,
and a terrifying flare-up burnt half the
roof off. When the fire was subdued
a singed and blackened contingent of
gladsome hoppers resumed the giddy
waltz. At a quarter past 12 the floor fell
in, and seven couples were thrown into
the outer darkness, where the dog bit
five of them. The floor was restored
roughly and on went the dance. At 22
minutes past one the roof blew up,
a smouldering scrap of hessian having
come in contact with the tin of blasting
powder Long used to extract stumps,
when it wasn’t hidden in the ceiling.
Then a storm came, and daylight dis-
covered three couples dancing under
umbrellas in the leaking barn. They-
were the only survivors, all the other
dancers being more or less bitten, singed
or injured. And they are dancing yet
for all I know.
—“Bulletin,” October 17, 1912.
Corio is both an Italian and an Aus-
tralian aboriginal word. A famous
Italian family bears that name, and it
was the original name of the northern
part of the present city of Geelong.
Daniel Bruce, the first curator of the
Geelong botanical gardens, published a
vocabulary of the language spoken by the
blacks around Geelong. In a prefatory
note he says that readers of his little
book who speak the words with “a soft
Italian accent” can make themselves
understood by the natives without diffi-
culty. Incidentally, Ballarat is Gaelic
as well as Australian. In both cases it
carries an “a” more than in present
usage, and in Gaelic means “the meeting
of the waters,” in abo. “a good camping
place.” — “Bulletin,” November 21, 1912.
NIGHTFALL ON THE BEACH
Glum
nightfall’s come
and glooms the beach,
there’s not a thing
to sing;
nothing to hear
in the drear
but the screech
of gulls quarrelling
on the wing
and the ebb’s sighs
at it dies;
nothing for the eyes
but dark skies
and boats as black as coals
waiting like lost souls
in a dismal row,
lights on the pier
faintly aglow,
drowning below
and, where the wet rocks show,
a dim and solitary crane
as still as death, then moving again.
JAMES HACKSTON


Feoffer
if tut icm't am oood, eernard.
ifOURE A<SOOP FRIEND HOT-
POT W'RE THE WRONfc KW
ft* Mg. OEHEVE HE.IVE TRIED,
POT I Ji>sT CAki'T 6ef INTERESTED
|KJ cfOU. \
can't oer
INTERESTED
in Mef
pout ei/eN
KMOW Mef
\
ALL Rl6Hf, 00 I'M one WOf
M£ TO <fog - &Oi5T, k)ITHPRAU)ti,
i/eFM shm - gur wve 6or ro
UNDERSTAND' I'M A COMPL6K'
PTfeReMT KIMD OF M 0
with tmmt eese-
uosTAioce, w show?
60 OUT WITH Me THe WA4
I AM AT THe "
ft&mowie commh)ou&,
efftcmr- 4ov covicut
Keep HOOF HANDS OFF M 6
IF HOD KMSW Me THF
X7\ WAH X AM
7 7 v V at
j £_ A^nj office.
of womo kw rue ms that i
ah when ne£ with w rwm-
fiu of omeo, man pf rue mbu?
MXW&OWIf, COH\/e&>ATiOtiAI,tM-
WO W Ik) AW OF THAT M 6 IF
ifOO TWO COOIO OMfcM 66T I&S6THeF f
\ _
OR WITH THE 6 IHA 160
WITH WHO I DON'T OAK
AWT' THATS A
WHOP W WM[
ROM M)T<£, Mff&Rioifc,
A AtMf-
r A6F66. The kino of me r
AH WITH m Y? A BORE
BUT OTT MOO
UIHO l AM DEPENDS OPON
WHICH KWD OF Mf WHAT
KW OF YOU BON6$ OUT!
OQfr cmo 0£ A
MAUTIfOL RELATION-
SHIP IF WE COOU?
ouw eer aether
on a selection.


The Red Page
The Aborigines
The Aborigines of Australia. J. W.
Bleakley. Jacaranda Press. £3 3s.
'T'he trouble between the Australian
aborigines and whites, when the
newcomers began to fan out and investi-
gate the land, was not the hostility of
the blacks but their extreme friendliness.
The aborigines were willing to share what
they had—that was their idea of gentle-
manly behavior—even if it was only a
piece of half-raw wallaby ; but they were
just as willing to share all the whites had.
To find a tribe of greasy, spear-carrying
and naked aborigines roaming in to
plunge dirty hands into the flour, butter
and cases of clothing was more than
white human nature could bear. It was
a case of “Keep those blacks out! ”
And keeping the blacks out, driving them
off somewhere else, became standard
white behavior.
The aborigines soon learnt that the
white man would take everything and
give only when it suited him. But in a
land where food was scarce the whites
were a wonderful new source of food
which could be had for the effort of
cajoling, pestering and begging; not
only food but bacca and even strong
drink. The idea that the blacks killed
cattle with spears is laughable. What
they did was frighten the cattle away
from the waterholes. They continued to
save the lives of white men, however
undeserving, on many occasions when
they were lost and starving. They also
speared them according to their custom
for what others of their white tribe had
done.
“Conflicts which destroyed the promise
of happy relations,” writes J. W. Bleakley
in “The Aborigines of Australia,” “were
often the outcome less of deliberate hos-
tility on the part of either than of stupid
acts of fear, greed and ignorance by
irresponsible individuals.” He gives some
terrible examples of senseless massacres
when the aborigines, naked and armed
with spears, were met with a hail of
bullets and the survivors pursued until
the whites had, in their own words,
“wiped the whole lot out.”
As early as 1815 a fight between sol-
diers of the 46th Regiment and aborigines
near Sydney, in which many of the dark
people were killed, led to a reserve being
set aside for them on George’s Head.
For if there were men who committed
inhuman acts against these people, there
were others who wanted to see them
fairly treated. In 1820 the British Gov-
ernment, as a result of the concern
expressed by the Governors, set aside
10,000 acres near Port Macquarie. The
land was “in trust” for the aborigines
under the control of the London Mis-
sionary Society.
The missionaries had no knowledge of
the native language or the native psycho-
logy and their methods soon caused the
rapid disappearance of aborigines at
Port Macquarie as at other mission
stations set up with Government assist-
ance. It would be interesting to know
what happened to the 10,000 acres. It
probably went the same way as the
reserve of 64,000 acres “in trust” for
the aborigines of the Methodist Mission
on the Barwon River. A much later
reserve in Mackay, Queensland, was
developing successfully, the children at
school, the small farms flourishing, when
the Government suddenly cut off the
subsidy of £5OO, cancelled the reserve and
threw the land open for selection.
In no case was the land given to the
aborigines themselves. It was always to
some body which would hold it “in
trust,” and when these people were dis-
couraged by lack of finance and left, the
aborigines lost the land.
Mr Bleakley was Chief Protector of
Aborigines in Queensland from 1914 to
1942. His great sympathy and practical
concern for the people with whom he
was so long associated and his access to
many important sources make his book
of value to any interested in aborigines.
It was the work of his retirement—he
died in 1957 —and it reviews the treat-
ment of the aborigines in every State
from earliest times until 1945. The
chapters on the Torres Strait Islanders
are probably the best account of these
people that can be found. There is scope
for a further work on aboriginal policy
between 1945 and the present time.
There have been changes that follow
fairly closely the advice that Mr Bleak-
ley himself gave the Commonwealth
Government. Jacaranda Press are to be
congratulated on their publication,
although in a praiseworthy determina-
tion to include every detail, they have
shown little respect for the reader’s eye-
sight.
Mr Bleakley was largely responsible
for Queensland having the reputation of
protecting its aborigines better than other
States. “In one State, even of recent
years,” he says, “an annual licence fee
of 10s. allowed wholesale employment of
aborigines without payment, other than
rations for themselves and their
dependents.”
As Chief Protector he was well aware
of the exploitation that went on in
Queensland. The aboriginal young
women, he points out, “were regarded
more as a solution of the domestic ser-
vant problem than as natural mates for
their own menfolk. Most families in
the North, including the police, had their
‘young gin’ as a cheap servant.”
He lays great emphasis on the neces-
sity of trained personnel with knowledge
of the native languages, of anthropolo-
gists and specialists, rather than superin-
tendents who are willing to take a small
wage in an obscure place because they
have failed elsewhere. The more posi-
tive policies we have seen coming into
operation in the last decade and the
public interest in aborigines which has
accompanied and prompt- i these policies
have still not been sufficient to provide
funds for the training of many
specialists.
The crux of the problem, of course,
lies- in the lack of an aboriginal fran-
chise. “Year after year provision made
in the annual estimates for funds seemed
invariably the first to be excised in the
general order for economy. The unfor-
tunate blacks, having no votes, were easy
and always the first victims.” We will
probably never have a Government
ready to spend the necessary money until
all aborigines have votes at all elections
and are politically significant. Aborigines
are notoriously careless of the only other
means of becoming important in the eyes
of white people: that is by owning pro-
perty. Over 150 years have not taught
them the white man’s habits of acquisi-
tiveness. Until they learn, that is become
“assimilated,” some of them will go on
needing protection.
KYLIE TENNANT
Churchill and the Jews
Winston Churchill on Jewish Problems.
Oskar K. Rabinowicz. Thomas
Yoseloff, New York. 41s. 6d.
. .
/jhurchill is a sincere friend of the
If ws an< l an ardent Zionist. He said
that no thoughtful man can doubt the
fact that they are the most formidable
an<a the most remarkable race which has
e _y ei appeared in the world. No wonder,
therefore, that on numerous occasions
throughout his life, whether as author,
statesman or personal friend, he has
clea l t ! v;^ S ’ Judaism and the Jewish
problem. His views are dispersed all
through his works, in private letters, Han-
&a ™ reports and newspaper features.
Rabinowicz has set himself the task to
collect them all and to arrange them
according to subject-matter, relating to
his general views on Judaism and in-
dividual Jews, his stand against the 1905
Aliens Bill, his fight against anti-
Semitism and his Zionist sympathies.
The aim of his book certainly is most
promising. A tremendous amount of
research has gone into it. However,
Rabinowicz partially fails in his object
by being unable to be concise and selec-
tive. He dwells too much and too long
G n details and lacks balance in the choice
of his innumerable quotations which
really make up the bulk of his work. It.
j s a pity that an otherwise most stimulat-
ing an( j informative account, which tries
both to fill a gap in the biographical
literature on Sir Winston Churchill and
to determine the place due to him in
Jewish history, suffers from these obvious
faults. Nonetheless it makes most in-
teresting reading.
It is a common experience that “Jews
are News,” but mostly so when it con-
cerns their misdemeanors. It is then that
newspapers and the public like to identify
them according to their religious affilia-
tion or racial origin. The Jewishness of
benefactors and patriots is usually


IF YOU HAVE A
FLAIR
FOR WRITING...
Turn your talent into a spare-time income.
There is a constant demand for well-
written stories, articles, pars, radio and TV
scripts, etc., and you can learn to write
successfully for Australian and overseas
magazines and papers.
STOTT’S can train YOU by post.
For details of Stott’s excellent correspon-
dence courses in literary subjects, post the
coupon below .
Stotts Correspondence College
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 149 Castle-
reagrh St., Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Bris-
bane; 21 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 254 Murray
St.. Perth.
CUI AND MAIL THIS COUPON
TO STOTT’S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
AGE... ~ (S.B. 1261)
BOOKHUNTER
l>ept. ~I >” Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us And it for you-—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.O. f Sydney,
ignored. Those great men are celebrated
as Englishmen, Frenchmen or Germans.
Chui chill never followed this rule.
Typical was his admiration of Lord
Beaconsfield, that “Jew Prime Minister of
England” who, though baptised, “was
always true to his race and proud of his
origin.”
In his respect and esteem of Jewish
people and his many personal contacts
and friendships with them, he certainly
was not blind to their faults. Most con-
spicuous amongst those he considered the
Jews’ lack of unity, their frequent division
into many parties, fighting amongst them-
selves. “Where there are three Jews, it
will be found that there are two Prime
Ministers and one Leader of the Opposi-
tion.”
Churchill was a man of action. To
him mere affirmations of friendship and
sympathy for the Jews were insufficient.
Whenever the occasion arose, he acted
according to his convictions. Rabinowicz
highlights the three most outstanding
events in which Churchill exerted his
influence on Jewish fate and history:
In England he fought with all power at
his disposal the 1905 Aliens Bill, which
sought to stop the influx of Jews escaping
from Russian terror into Britain. To close
the doors against unfortunate victims of
oppression contradicted all British tradi-
tion. The Bill did not show the Govern-
ment’s anxiety to legislate but to electioneer.
He wholeheartedly supported the Zionist
cause ever since 1918 and uncompromis-
ingly opposed the White Paper of 1939 which
restricted immigration into Palestine. The
creation of a Jewish State in the Holy Land
meant to Churchill not just the elimination
of the grave problem of Jewish homeless-
ness. Zionism was in harmony with the
interests of the British Empire and a great
event in the world’s destiny, which “carries
with it much that is good for the whole
world and not only for the Jewish people.”
Throughout his life Churchill fought
anti-Semitism in all its manifestations,
whether it raised its ugly head in North
Wales or the East End of London, in
Czarist or Soviet Russia, in the Kaiser’s
or Hitler’s Germany, He was convinced
that the treatment of the Jewish people
has always determined the fate of a nation.
Repeatedly he quoted words ascribed to
Disraeli: “The Lord deals with the nations
as the nations deal with the Jews ”
Rabinowicz's compilation reveals some
interesting facts which gain in importance,
especially in connection with the present
Eichmann trial. Well-informed on world
events, Britain’s then Prime Minister
surprisingly confesses that even he at the
time did not realise the magnitude of the
tragedy of Jewish suffering. “I must say
that I had no idea, when the war came
to an end, of the terrible massacres which
had occurred, the millions and millions
that have been slaughtered ...”
When the Jewish community
clamored to be given the right to form
their own Brigade, to be able to fight the
Nazis under their own flag and with their
own badges, from the beginning Chur-
chill favored the project. It was good for
the Jews to get at the murderers of their
fellow brethren in Central Europe. How-
ever, it was because Wavell objected to
the idea, that Churchill postponed the
establishment of the Jewish Brigade. He
feared that its creation would be resented
by the General and thus adversely affect
/ , - ~ T ,
the conduct of the war. That is \)hy
initially he deferred the matter but gave
instructions that “the sole reason given
should be lack of equipment”!
T , u c a . , . , • „„„„ .
leihaps one of the most tiagic aspects
of receni history concerning the Jews
were the leisurely methods used to save
people caught in a hurricane of destruc-
f. ° , , ,
tion. The Etchmann tiial has drawn
renewed attention to the Nazi offer in
1944 to exchange “Jews for trucks.”
Chu.chil! declined to sanction any nego-
tiations. But his notes and letters, pub-
lished in Rabinowicz’s book, show that
he did so not merely out of principle
Weighty political considerations played
their not insignificant part. The Nazi
offer was linked up with the promise
that the material received would not be
used against the Western Allies but only
on the Eastern front. It was a subtle
manoeuvre on the part of the Germans
to split the Allies, which therefore was
doomed from the outset,
All this information can be gleaned
from Rabinowicz’s “anthology.” The
book itself is only “Part I’ of the collec-
tion of every mention of Jews in Chur-
chill’s papers and life. We are promised
a second volume, dealing with Palestine,
though already in this first instalment we
are being given plenty of insight into
Churchill’s Zionism. Rabinowicz would
do well if he combined both parts into
one, excising all unnecessary repetitions
and restricting himself to the essential
facts.
R. BRASCH
Larger Than You Are
A Prime Minister Remembers. Francis
Williams. Heinemann. 265.
'T'he picture that Tory propagandists
-*• put out about Lord Attlee—that he
was an inoffensive, insignificant little
man —was one that they picked up from
his enemies in the Labor party. All
the ambitious great - the Morrisons,
Crippses and Laskies —played this line
against him in their various attempts
(1939, 1945, 1947) to unseat him. But
it was the very qualities in mm that they
were then obscuring, or misrepresenting,
that made it so easy for him to make
mincemeat of them.
Attlee was business-like, shallow-
minded, cool-headed, politically shrewd,
personally modest and calculatedly ruth-
less. This book, made up by Francis
Williams from oddments among Attlee’s
papers and tape-recorded interviews,
gives very little away (Attlee must surely
have been Britain’s most curt Prime
Minister since the Duke of Wellington)
but to lovers of the Attlee short answer
it makes amusing bedside reading.
When asked by Neville Chamberlain
whether he would serve under Chamber-
lain, or if not under Chamberlain under
some other Conservative Prime Minister,
Attlee snapped into the telephone ’ “The
answer to the first question is, no. To
the second, yes.” That ended Chamber-
lain as Prime Minister. When Laski,
having failed in 1945 to ditch Attlee for
Morrison, then coolly solicited the
ambassadorship in Washington Attlee
replied even more curtly: “Dear Laski,
thank you for your letter, contents of
which have been noted.” Of the Prime
Ministership he said: “You live on the
job, of course, which is a great advan-
tage.”
One survives in politics, Attlee told
Williams, “by not worrying. Clearing
off every day’s job before the end of the
day. You take a decision and then have
done with it. No good asking yourself
if you’ve done the right thing. It gets
you nowhere.” Nationalisation . India
. just like that. His mind is seen at
its coolest and most ruthless in his state-
ment on India: “I thought most Indians
were not really very keen on responsi-
bility They would talk and talk and
talk, and as long as they could put the
responsibility on us they would continue
to quarrel among themselves. There-
fore I concluded the thing to do was to
bring them right up against it ... I
decided that the only thing to do was to
set a time limit and say: ‘Whatever hap-
pens, our rule is ending on that date.’
It was, of course, a somewhat dangerous
venture . I told him [the King] as I’d
told Mountbatten too, that I thought the
odds were about six to four against
success.”
Yet this neat little empiricist genuinely
distinguishes himself from the bigheads.
“Little Benes was quite sure he could
fix everything . . . He was too clever by


half.” Neville Chamberlain was “con-
vinced that he was so clever that he could
manage everything.” “It is always a
mistake to think yourself larger than
you are.”
ADAM RICHMOND
Novels of London
The L-Shaped Room. Lynne Reid
Banks. Chatto and Windus. 20s.
The story of this novel, which I found
reminiscent in climate of Elizabeth
Harrower’s recent very fine “The
Catherine Wheel,” is of Jane Graham,
unmarried, and pregnant to a man whom
she does not particularly want in her life.
The L-shaped room to which she repairs
is the refuge she chooses in her escape
from her own world, an escape born of
misery and frustration, a rejection of
everything she has known.
The room becomes thus a symbol ; but
its inanimate existence refuses the func-
tion she plans for it. For a room is part
of a house, as a life is part of a com-
munity ; and the house is part of a street
and the street the connection with all life.
The escapist cannot so easily master her
own destiny ; and the book could be
defined as a study of Jane Graham’s
struggles, and the changing direction of
their energy. The prevailing weather of
the book is a London gloom, dispersed
frequently by spring-time brilliance. The
squalid walls of the house enclose a negro
homosexual, a serio-comic landlady, a
pair of energetic prostitutes and an un-
successful Jewish writer.
The book’s analyses are less penetrating
than Miss Harrower’s, its language not
quite so admirable ; its construction is
stronger, and its situations more rapidly
changing; yet the relationship between
the novels is unmistakable, a relationship
born in large measure of honesty of
approach and clarity of thought. It
seems to me that the emergence of such
books may mark a stage in writing in
which over-emphasis on purely psycho-
logical motivation has been muted to an
acceptable level.
The story’s application is greater than
at first appears ; it deals with the problem
of retreat from and acceptance of the
world, and the pregnancy which times the
novel, establishes most of the crises and
motivates all the significant actions, is
no more than symbolic, really, of more
widely-shared problems. The heroine
who copes is admirably chosen, a small-
time actress, 27 years old, from the Eng
lish middle-class, an intelligent girl who
has courage and normal weaknesses and
an acceptance of reality.
It is a Book Society choice and was
reprinted in the month of its first im-
pression.
OLAF RUHEN
Elvis goes to War
Operation Elvis. Alan Levy. Andre
Deutsch. 13s. 3d.
Alan Levy, a Louisville reporter who
interviewed Private First Class Elvis
Presley in Germany, has made an
amusing monograph of Presley’s ex-
periences with the U.S. Army, and the
Army’s experiences with Elvis, in whom,
as in Robert Burns and sundry others,
we perceive that Dionysus (not to say
Orpheus) was by no means all myth.
Mr Levy makes you see to what degree
the Army was embarrassed, in recruiting
a god, by nymphs with coca-cola leaves
in their hair and that endless epic the
U.S. press.
Hordes of cameras followed Presley
to his medical tests, one photographer
just failing to get the shot of Elvis
without any clothes that would have
made his fortune. Thousands of letter
writers cursed the Army for calling him
up. Thousands more cursed the Army
for deferring his induction so that he
might complete a film. The bus convey-
ing him to camp was detoured to avoid
screaming girls at restaurants along the
route. His first camp meal was filmed
mouthful by mouthful.
The careers of Army Public Relations
officers depended, as never before, on
not saying a wrong word ; and when
Levy visited him in the three-story old
Bad Nauheim house where Elvis was
living-out from the Army, and Elvis
and his father had accorded him a laconic
interview, interrupted by a cuddly Ger-
man blonde who played a few gramo-
phone records and then left (“She doesn’t
speak English and I still haven't learned
much German,” Elvis said, “but we get
on”), an Army captain was waiting in
the kitchen to fill in any points Elvis
had left undecided:
“The trouble with Presley—my only
trouble with Presley—has not been with the
individual himself, but with people who
call me at home trying to get through to
him. Some kid in the States decides about
four or five p.m. that she wants to call
Elvis. She doesn’t realise it’s six or eight
hours later here. So it takes a couple of
hours for her to get the call through, and
she pulls me —or whoever gets the call —
out of bed about two in the morning.”
Levy manages to fill his little book
tight with facts about “the former 35-
dollar-a-week truckdriver” who was in
1957 “a 20 million dollar industry,
although he personally earned a paltry
one million dollars of that sum”: such
as his being 6ft lin. tall and so able to
deal with face-to-face critics and out-
raged husbands who badgered him in
the streets that he was soon left severely
alone by them. It is a comfort to the
present reviewer, who has been an Elvis
fan since “Tutti Frutti,” after newspaper
critics and other writers have howled
him down as a singer, throwing at him
continuously that vague charge of using
an echo-chamber, to find a singer of the
standing of Burl Ives standing up for
him:
“I think Presley’s the greatest .... He
has a fine voice and great deal of
talent . . . .”
There are embarrassing stories about
what everyone said after the death of
his mother while he was in the Army,
and how Tin Pan Alley whooped even
that up:
There’s a new angel tonight
Up in heaven so bright,
The mother of our rock-’n’-roll king.
And here the press, with its ear to
a father-and-son colloquy at the funeral
and after, managed to make Elvis seem
a little ridiculous, if that, in those circum-
stances, was a praiseworthy accomplish-
ment ; but otherwise he seems to have
had them beat. Quiet, laconic, matter-
of-fact, never very clever or witty, he
manages to convey the tolerance of a
Gulliver for a world of Lilliputians.
R. McCUAIG
Scots Poet
Poems in Scots and English. William
Soutar, selected by W. R. Aitken.
Oliver and Boyd. 17s. 6d.
T}or some mysterious reason I find
modern poems written in the
Scottish dialect as embarrassing as
haggis ; and when I see the nationalists
in Edinburgh, all of whom can and do
speak perfect English with just a pleasant
heathery tang to it, gargling away about
Herry-the-wind as he
Cockers his wime wi’ the thrissel-tow,
Blebs the bee and frammles the flee
And gowps the e’e frae the gollachers pow,
I just want to creep off and down a
gallon of usquebaugh. Why, even if
they must use it, should modern Scottish
dialect be more obscure than Burns —
right back to Dunbar?
But William Soutar is disarming.
Partly it is because of his tragic life:
he died in 1943 after enduring many
years of “a form of spondylitis” which
crippled him. Partly it is because he
wrote well enough in English, in a style
that reminds one of a modern Henley —
Heart! keep your silence still,
Mocking the tyrant’s mock:
Thunder js on the hill;
Foam on the rock —
to command respect in whatever experi-
ments he tried. Partly it is because he
wrote his “bairn-rhymes” and “whig-
maleeries” —fanciful things which remind
me of Eric Roll’s recent verses —largely
for children ; and any kind of tongue-
twisting and fantasy and evocation of
traditional nursery rhymes is legitimate
in that field. The poetic spirit is set free
to play ; and Soutar played delightfully:
witness, for instance, his riddle on the
night sky:
O wee! ye ken yon muckle house
That is sae heich abune;
Whaur at the mirkin monie a mouse
Keeks out wi’ glinty e’en.
And weel ye ken yon muckle cat
Wha canniely creeps in :
And aften she is unco fat,
And aften unco thin.
And finally one admires him becaus*,
even though his ballads and whig-
maleeries are pastiche, nevertheless they
are often such excellent pastiche that
they stand in their own right as con-
tributions to the body of ancient litera-
ture they reflect. Along with a few poor


rhymes in which the Scottish dialect
merely covers up cliche and sentimen-
tality, there are lots of fine things here
that would take a natural and unques-
tioned place in anthologies of ballads and
curiosities.
DOUGLAS STEWART
False Bottoms
The Dark Side of the Moon. Robert
Neumann. Hutchinson. 15s.
Robert Neumann is certainly a writer
who likes to keep the reader guessing.
In “The Dark Side of the Moon,” which
is quite a short novel, we see characters
die and come alive again with the speed
generally associated with a conjuror’s
performance.
The action takes place in a small town
that still has many ruins due to the last
war. The division between the Western
and Eastern zones of present-day Europe
runs through the town and may easily be
crossed. Andreas Wirz is a middle-aged
lawyer who leads a shabby and lonely
life. He spent many years as a prisoner
in the Eastern sector and believes that he
is still under suspicion because of previ-
ous political connections with that part
of the world. Wirz also thinks that his
lawyer-father has been dead many years.
During the 30 hours that the novel
covers, Wirz discovers many puzzling
things. When his nymphomaniacal step-
mother appears on the scene the past also
returns and throws up a nightmare of
perversions, murders and intrigues. Wirz
also discovers his father’s diary, and this
gives him a picture of his father’s
relationships with his sickly first wife and
his downfall because of his second wife.
The stepmother is then murdered —but
reappears, and the story finally arrives at
its unexpected conclusion ; although, by
this time, anything might be expected.
"The Dark Side of the Moon” is
written in a pompous and humorless
style. However, the author does not
avoid some unconscious pieces of humor.
When trying to show the complexities of
the stepmother’s personality he makes
this delightful, though unintended, state-
ment : “She was like a smuggler’s trunk
with a number of false bottoms. When-
ever you got down to one of them and
pressed the secret spring that bottom too
would open and disclose yet another com-
partment . . .”
The trouble is that Neumann is trying
to write in a manner that Dostoievsky
exploited with genius. The Examining
Magistrate in “The Dark Side of the
Moon” is a very weak attempt to recreate
Petrovitch in “Crime and Punishment.”
Practically the only thing that can be
said in favor of this novel is that it can
be oddly fascinating. Its morbidness is
not unlike the morbidness found in some
Expressionistic paintings—and weak, frail
Andreas Wirz often seems as if he would
really like to utter a full-blooded, Munch-
like scream. But Wirz is able to come
through his adventures with some feeling
of hope: at the end he can say: “And
this life, all in all, is well worth living,
and a great wonder.”
R. A. SIMPSON
Children
at Wee Jasper
As rotting autumn spreads
In northern trees, and treacherous
Yellow fevers lift
Leaves down from twigs
That meet frosts naked,
Roaming shorthaired clouds
Blue as cattledogs
Muster and drive the soft
Stock from summer’s acre.
The stringy country stirs
And lifts a sombre head
Its foreign clothing fallen,
Takes on its native air
In olive ochre dun ;
A dark accurate gaze
Penetrates to where
Furthest hill and valley
Are silent in the sun.
There, mazes of dead finish
Sway their brown clubs
Of light whispering metal:
Deep into the sky
A luminous random swarm
Appear and vanish,
Wandering stars of day
Inconsequential, mortal
Angels of thistledown.
Mysterious and close
As the tiny sprinkling sound
Of seedheads, or the sight
Of those untimely stars
My son and daughter watch
With serious listening face
Cloud and season pause,
Learning land and light
As native to them each.
At night, in foreign towns,
May this, too deep for memory,
Yet comfort and secure;
Involuntary, profound,
Absorbed by vacant eyes
On vacant afternoons,
Be compass still to find
The north of who they are
And where their true soil lies.
J. R. ROWLAND
The Optimist
Waking never with foreboding, always
the optimist
Believing the next day could only
be better,
Would bring the pleading telephone
call, the humble letter,
That he would stay alive in a land
where heroes
Led the laurelled pageant of gold-
chained leopards,
Where the whip was a reed and the
fetter
Shaped like a lily in bud. Believing
all dragons
To be mild as lapdogs, and that
witches would bless a baby,
And that girls were always willing to
be kissed.
Having no knowledge of thorns or
bee stings,
Of belladonna or even the sword,
Much less the summons of the bland
inquisitor.
They came to take him to the hos-
pitable cell
They had decorated for him with ice
and blood
But he had died happily in his sleep
some hours before.
ELIZABETH RIDDELL
An Old Woman’s
Rhyme
There comes a brave poet from Botany
Bay,
There comes a young rhymer with
nothing to say,
And what have you got to give him
today?
—l’ve an old brown country that’s
worn like a shoe,
It’s patched and it pinches, but he can
make it do.
He can have my old brown country.
There comes a bold rhymer with
nothing to say,
He is homely and hausrein and keeps
out of the way,
Frisks and barks, wags his tail for a
mere cliche.
—l’ve an old brown platitude, it’s
worn like a glove,
It’ll fit a Botany Bay poet with a bit
of a shove.
He can have my old brown platitude.
He is homely and hausrein and isn’t
much in the way,
On liver, lights and damper he’ll
scamper off and play,
And those sweet bushy smells will
delight him all day.
—-I’ve a matey old billycan, it’s rusted
and holey,
He can have it and welcome to drown
melancholy,
Or dump it in the ashcan.
He is wise to the habits of bats, bees
and birds,
Au fait with Marie Stopes and Freud
re rams and bulls and herds,
And very, very versatile with anything
but words.
—l’ve an old blue blanket, it’s a filthy
bit of rag,
A fleas’ happy haven, he can have it
for his swag
And go walkabout.
Give him roos, give him jumbucks,
give him heat, flies, glory ;
Give him Woolloomooloo and a
Hemingway story,
Give him Cuscuscaraway and his
ancient auditory:
—He’s a happy little feller on his
chain, on his chain,
He’ll lick your lily flipper if you pat
him once again,
But it’s always rather hard to get him
past a sink or drain,
Or a gumtree.
BRIAN ELLIOTT


MITCHELL GALLERIES, PUBLIC LIBRARY OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Macquarie Street, Sydney
THROUGH BRITISH EYES
an exhibition of travel books and periodicals
arranged by
THE BRITISH COUNCIL
Gallery hours: Monday—Saturday, 10.00 a.m.—5.00 p.m.
Sunday, 2.00 p.m. —6.00 p.m.
ADMISSION FREE
A Seedy London Bookshop
The Tempter. Anthony Bloomfield.
Hogarth Press. 225. 6d.
A ny facet of existence or experience
from the loftiest to the basest is a
fitting subject for literature ; but “un-
savory” topics can only be successfully
used for literary as opposed to sensa-
tional purposes if the author is prepared
to be disciplined by good taste ... as
Mr Bloomfield is here in his novel about
a seedy London bookshop. He deals
with love, and sex is omnipresent, but
purple passages there are none, which
is a surprising achievement since the
bookshop trades not only in sales and
supplies of pornography but in the
manufacture of pornographic material.
There is a photographic studio behind the
shop and once a week the pornographers
assemble there.
Now, when one comes to think of it, It
is far easier to guess at who might buy
and circulate pornographic literature and
filthy postcards than it is to imagine who
might pose for the pictures. After all, if
the business is at all stable and con-
tinuous “security” becomes as vitally
important to pornographic as to top
secret atomic establishments. One could
not employ any beaten-up (or down)
prostitute who would sell her information
to the police as soon as her services to
the photographer. Men must be found
to pose, too. Ordinary blackmail for
various reasons scarcely answers,
especially as certain limited but very
definite talents are requisite in the
performers.
Mr Bloomfield postulates a most con-
vincing set of characters. His bookseller,
Samson, is a peculiarly compelling man.
Mr Bloomfield is indebted to Thomas
Mann’s “Doctor Faustus” in the realisa-
tion, development and explanation of this
gentleman. Samson collects his “staff”
deviously, gradually, with insight and
with kindness. One of his aims is the
redemption of his collection of lost and
wandering souls.
The reader of this book is not invited
to approve of pornography, or to range
himself against the slow but inexorable
forces that line up to oppose themselves
to the tempter and his minions. For
one policeman who appears to defect a
whole clodhopping force awaits to sub-
stitute. Samson is as aware of this as
he is of the dangers awaiting his enter-
prise from the ranks of sensation hunting
journalists. He is, eventually, as willing
to be the scapegoat as he was to assure
his pornographers that they would be
saved (in several senses of that word).
Mr Bloomfield’s exposition of his topic
as a whole may be debatable, but I can
unreservedly recommend his book to any-
one who likes novels of unusual content,
provoking ideas and excellently written
prose.
NANCY KEESING
Three Kinds of Adventure
The Long Rescue. Theodore Powell.
W. H. Allen. 375. 3d.
The Curve of Time. M. Wylie Blanchet.
Blackwood. 16s.
A Calabash of Diamonds. Margaret
Lane. Heinemann. 31s.
As part of an international project
Adolphus Greely was appointed to
command an American Arctic expedi-
tion with the purpose of establishing a
weather station near the North Pole. The
site selected was Lady Franklin Bay near
Greenland, some 250 miles from the
Pole, and there Greely and his party of
25 men stayed taking scientific record-
ings and observing local climatic changes.
After two years a relief party was sent to
bring them home. It could not get
through the ice. A second party also
failed? By the time the third force got
through 19 of the men had starved to
death.
Theodore Powell has gone through all
the records to work up what he calls a
piece of “journalistic history.” The bulk
of the narrative deals with the expedi-
tion’s desperate fight for survival, and
here there are all the ingredients of high
drama —the clash of different personali-
ties, the court martial and execution of a
comrade, acts of nobility and treachery,
incredible suffering by all in the party,
political bungling in Washington. The
book highlights a forgotten chapter in
American history and one of the truly
great adventure stories. As a record of
human endurance it would be hard to
beat anywhere, anytime.
M. Wylie Blanchet’s “The Curve of
Time” is an adventure story of a differ-
ent kind. It is an account of a series of
summers spent in cruising the islands of
British Columbia, a mother with her five
children, in which all sorts of tremendous
things involving whales, shaggy bears
and real Indians seem to happen. The
writer, an extraordinary character in her
own right, has a warmth and charm about
her that make each episode a piece of
delightful reading.
Margaret Lane in “A Calabash of
Diamonds” has managed to make an
ordinary kind of adventure look kind of
ordinary. And yet it might have turned
out better. By means too devious to
describe, the author and her husband
come by a map purporting to show the
spot where a hoard of uncut diamonds
had been buried some years before in the
grave of an African chief. The two of
them decide to hunt for this buried
treasure. The book is an account of their
journey to the border country of Southern
Rhodesia and Mozambique looking for
the graves of old chiefs. The project
must rank as one of the dullest ever
undertaken. My one moment of hysteria :
“We began to study atlases and bought a
large-scale map of South Africa. This,
to our surprise, told us almost
nothing . . .”
D.T.
Two to Sit On
Private History. Derek Patmore. Cape.
345. 9d.
Memoirs of an Armchair. Violet Tre-
fusis and Philippe Jullian. Hutchin-
son. 265.
TXerek Patmore is Coventry Patmore’s
grandson. During the 1920 s and
30s (the period of this book) he knew
well hordes of people concerned with
literature, art and the brighter sort of
society. He was a Bright Young Person.
When he speaks of Cecil Beaton,
Oliver Messell, Nancy Cunard, H. G.
Wells, Lloyd Morris and all the other
names a reviewer could select at random
he speaks from real acquaintance—this
is no name-dropping screed. But the book
fails in spite of all this for the simple
reason that it is written in the dullest
and most pedestrian of styles. For
instance when Ezra Pound, in Paris, takes
the young man to tea with the Ernest
Hemingways and John Dos Passos drops
in and they talk of writers it ought all
to be fascinating, for Mr Patmore has
remembered the gist of the conversation ;
but as he sets it down it is as common-
place as what your auntie said after the
last jumble sale.
The armchair memoirs similarly fall
short of the promise they seem to offer
when you first look into them, though
Philippe Jullian’s illustrations, conceived
in the wiggly mode of Ronald Searle or
Felix Topolski, are charming enough.
The chair is supposed to have been
bought, with its twin, from France’s
greatest cabinet-maker by Louis XV and
presented by that monarch to his
daughters. The talkative chair of the
pair upholds the mighty and the less
exalted during conversations, liaisons,
conspiracies and so forth, and was once
altered to serve as a commode to Vol-
taire.
It goes out of fashion and makes its
comeback as a fabulously expensive
antique. And so on. And so on. Events
in its imaginary crowded life move very
fast —too fast. Promising situations are
not developed and dull ones are included
that might well have been omitted.
The overall effect is of unbearable arch-
ness —an uncomfortable attribute for an
armchair.
N. KING


Shows
Sitting Shot at Nielsen
/''VNE remembers hearing that Gustav
Mahler would generally sit while
conducting, and recalls seeing the precise
minimal gestures of Klemperer on his
first Australian visit, while he
was yet master of his art.
Even so, it comes as some-
thing of a mild surprise to
find that Dr Malko remains perched on
a tubular steel chair to conduct at a Mel-
bourne subscription concert. We are
still, after all, in an age when a good
deal of the glamor of performance is
concentrated in the figure of the virtuoso
conductor. Not many of the subscribers
hear the music purely with their ears, and
many are conditioned to expect the an-
cillary thrill of the maestro’s athletics.
To sit is the perquisite of the veteran,
or of the very self-confident.
It seemed at f-rst as if Dr Malko’s con-
fidence was about to be betrayed. His
concert opened with an exceedingly
pedantic performance of the Fideho Over-
ture, carefully phrased and articulated,
but too slow, over-emphatic, and not well
served by the wavering intonation of the
horns in their opening phrases. The
orchestra livened markedly for the play-
ing of Strauss’s Don Juan, playing which
gave yet another warrant of the fine
quality of most of our musicians.
But during the whole of the second part
of the evening, the level of performance
was rewardingly high, without at any
time moving far past the mark of experi-
enced competence. The orchestra fol-
lowed Dr Malko’s broad and clear beat
with supple confidence, allowing him to
expound cleanly the virtues of the Sin-
fonia Semplice of Nielsen.
It is possible to sympathise with the
“Age” reviewer, who stigmatised this
score as being composed of scraps re-
jected by Nielsen’s greater contemporaries,
and yet to reserve some admiration for
the symphony. An ear familiar with
Nielsen’s earlier music, and especially
with the “Inextinguishable” Symphony,
may find in this music aspects and dimen-
sions far removed from those of mechani-
cal pastiche.
It is true enough (and this is, I think,
a critical flaw in a work which is set as
the centre-piece of an orchestral concert)
that the music is of less than symphonic
stature. Neither the relations between
movements, nor the internal structure of
the movements, are big or important
enough for this, and the total effect is
inevitably cne of serenade- or conversa-
tion-type music, of something native to
the world of the divertimento rather than
to the loftier and more rigorous world
of symphonic thought.
Simpson’s apologia, in his book on
Nielsen, strikes us in this regard as a
smooth piece of special pleading: he
Discounts, by admitting, the fact that it
Is impossible to align this music with any
flormal symphonic practice, and then
proceeds to discuss the whole work as
if it did form part of the symphonic
tradition. As a result, he applies to the
music a set of criteria which it is too
fragile to sustain, and almost obliterates
the fresh and naive values which are
there.
These values lie more in the order of
sense and sentiment than in that of re-
flection and intellect. Nielsen’s frag-
mentary conceptions, held together by a
curious but very strong sense of central
tonality, are at their best saturated with
a feeling of healthy vitality.
All this may very well be less shapely
and sophisticated than the best art, but
it is nevertheless no bad sign in the
music of the present century, which is so
raddled with artifice and the sickness of
self-cultivation.
KENNETH HINCE
19th-Century Romance
Ccorn for the 1 9th century having been
carried a little too far both by the
partisans of baroque-and-roll and of
serialism, the programme of 19th-century
romantics given by mezzo Marv Adams
and pianist Romola Costantino at Sydney
University’s Great Hall showed a
thoroughly healthy sense of both per-
spective and values. Their work was free
from the mustiness that has earned the
century its sectional ill-repute.
The range of Miss Costantino's
remarkable abilities, both in matters of
technique and matters of imagination,
was revealed by her apparently easy
identification with the grave, gray intro-
spections of aged Brahms in the six
pieces of Op. 118 and with the happy,
charming innocence of the fireside
stories of Schumann’s “Scenes from
Childhood.” The opposed spirits of
brooding solitude and tender corn-
panionship were authoritatively cap-
tured.
... . , „
Miss Adams, reversing Miss Costan-
! ino s P an carn P ai §m took a hne from
innocence to older thinking through
Schubert, Mahler and Wolf. A little
uneasy in the Schubert, whose hurt-boy
idiom does not come easily to voices
lower than lyric soprano, Miss Adams
gained much greater confidence and
imaginative richness in Mahler’s “Way-
farer’ songs. Where in the Schubert she
had had the attitudes of a careful
amateur, her Mahler singing had much
of the attack one expects of a deeply
self-demanding professional,
L.B.
Provocation to Elysium
X/'iolinist Isaac Stern, on each of his
* three tours of Australia, has brought
no greater gift to Australian music-
lovers than the radiant concerto con-
certs he has given with chamber orchestras
under his direction and spell—wonder-
fully joyful occasions in which the
affctionate brotherhood of him and his
collaborators begets music of quite
entrancing impulse and design.
His latest Sydney performances of
concertos by Haydn, Mozart and (v kb
Ernest Llewellyn as a partner) Bach may
not ring in the memory as vibrantly or
as long as the corresponding concert of
his 1954 season, which I count among
the most cherished musical experiences of
my life, but the joy and the beatitude and
the fraternal vivacity of it all might well
have had Elysium scowling at the pre-
sumption of mere earthlings.
Right from the beginning of the C-
major Haydn concerto Stern was at full
stature, givirg no trace of the faint
jadedness of spirit which recently
prompted some of his most enthusiastic
admirers to ask whether he had fallen
out of love with his work. Where one
could fault the Haydn was in the size
of the accompanying ensemble, a
weightier group than at previous Stern
concerts of this kind, and, though the
soloist was never more than slightly out-
weighted in the exhilarations of the two
end movements, the orchestral pizzicati
under the rapt cantilena of the middle
movement were so loud as to spike up-
ward into the silken melodic surface
fabric.
The bulkiness of the orchestral tone
was also disconcerting in the Mozart C
major concerto at times. If ever a musi-
cal work surrounded the heavenliness of
a Raphael angel with the smiles of
Botticellian cupids, this is it—but the
slightly overweight orchestra sometimes
gave us a Raphael and a Botticelli who
were hankering to be Michelangelo.
Even so, the orchestral attack and phras-
ing, except for one ungainly woodwind
entrance, were expert throughout. The
only solo phrase I disliked in the whole
performance was Stern’s entrance in the
adagio, a phrase of studied and unnatural
slowness before the solo was “sprung”
into quicker discourse on ravishing
rhythm-pulsed melody.
The Bach concerto for two violins was,
in its end movements, set forth in tone
of enormous vigor, spring and breadth,
and the Stern-Llewellyn partnership
sang the interlacing meditations of the
largo for what this music is and will
always be, one of the supreme manifes-
tations of serene spiritual sweetness and
grace in the whole history of human
expression.
LINDSEY BROWN


The No-Hopers
The No-hopers. Peter Baty. Perth
Playhouse.
p’s a long time since any Australian
A play has set out purely to amuse ; even
“Rusty Bugles,” apart from inherent war-
time pathos, had its poignant moments.
THEATRE
Judging from the merri-
ment with which a first
audience greeted “The
No-Hopers,” who in-
habit the Grand Central pub at outback
Upotipotpon (a real Victorian place-
name!), new author Peter Baty has
achieved his aim.
Business has passed by the Grand
Central, left alone in its glory with the
P.O. on the other side of the track, but
there is plenty of business on stage in the
bar. Publican O'Shaughnassy (with an
Australian accent), and his rouseabout
cobber Ben, engaged in tail-story telling
and betting how many flies will stick to
the curl catcher depending from the
jaded decorations of Christmas before
last, are galvanised by the arrival of a
moneyed city lass who is interested in
following up clues from her geologist
grandfather’s secret diary.
This is a situation ripe for true comedy,
and, if at times exuberance in Loth
writing and production led to farce at
the expense of satire, cutting of over-
long dialogue and business could soon
trim “The No-Hopers” into shape.
O'Shaughnassy has an exhausted wife
given to pianola playing and noggins for
pep’s sake, but a smart woman at heart.
There is also a teenage maid-of-all-work
in love with the postmistress’s Dave-type
son. At the moment when O'Shaugh-
nassy and Ben decide the city lass must
be on the trail of gold an old friend who
travels in lingerie drops in. What with
the three young people’s fun and games,
and old-time dancing tete-a-tete between
Mrs O’Shaughnassy and the traveller and
midnight forays on the part of the two
men to dig for gold, the involutions
are fast and furious. Dawn finds the
underground water-tank broken by a
careless pick and the Grand Central in
danger of dissolution.
Baty undoubtedly has the sense of
fun that makes good theatre. His plot
is soundly Australian. The ; lay is funda-
mentally well constructed, observing the
unities. The national tail-story theme,
so frequently well handled in other
literary forms, is new to the stage.
Joan MacArthur’s creation of Maggie
O’Shaughnassy has insight and wit, and
in the most maudlin moments remained
deliciously controlled. The best-observed
and freshest character was the young
maid—Elspeth Ballantyne’s back-country
girl, capable, warm, confident and self-
consciously shy in one breath, made a
Welcome addition to the gallery of Aus-
tralian stage characters. As O’Shaugh-
nassy and Ben, Bert Vickers and Arthur
Hardman were happily cast, their leg-
pulling authentic.
A little more idiom and a little less
slang could give “The No-Hopers” hope
of an audience outside Australia and a
longer stage life. Production and a first-
class set-design were by the author.
H. DRAKE-BROCKMAN
A Touched-up Negative
Elmer Gantry, Sydney Regent.
Tf Elmer Gantry had been a Moham-
-®- medan half his difficulties might have
been obviated, since most of his hypocrisy
sprang from his lechery. Chased from
town to town through Sin-
clair Lewis’s novel as he is
found practising earthly love
under cover of heavenly love,
FILMS
he leaves the book despairing over the
lust that he will never lose: it is this
which makes him human and pitiable.
The film throws over this the soft veil
of technicolor. A disgraced theological
student, a seedy commercial traveller,
he falls for a beautiful revivalist at a
prayer meeting, becomes the leading
member of her troupe, and seduces her
just as she is establishing the temple that
will free her from one-night stands. But
a girl he betrayed in times past, now a
prostitute in the city, compromises him
with photographs—then she goes techni-
color and confesses to the papers that she
has framed him, and all is prepared for
him and the beautiful revivalist to go on
to further heights of glory when the
revivalist is burned up in a fire that
destroys her temple. So Elmer Gantry
goes off into the future, done with false
revivalism, ennobled and purified by his
love for the dead revivalist.
That is a prettification of Lewis’s
theme; but one important feature of
Lewis’s book has been retained: the per-
ception of Gantry as the dupe of his
own loquacity. This is what makes Burt
Lancaster’s performance so compelling.
He seems unaware that there is any
difference between the truth of religion
and what the salesman says. As his face
lights up and the voice oozes the unction
of a mattress spruiker, amusement gives
way to concern. Lancaster makes you
see that you are dealing with an almost
pathological case. It is an extraordinarily
fine performance, of rare emotional com-
plexity for Hollywood, and paralleled by
Miss Simmons’s amused disbelief in his
professions of faith which nevertheless
does not prevent her surrender to his
virility.
There also remains Lewis’s indictment
of circus religion—and here, with the
appropriation of George Babbit to head
the group proposing to sell religion to
the citizens of Zenith, the meeting of
representative citizens, the hesitations of
the clergy, the processional extravagance,
the confessional orgies, the smashing of
brothels and speakeasies, it is first rate.
Still, to o ir times, which have forgotten
Prohibition, and for which such writings
as this very book of Lewis’s have mini-
mised the possibility of turning ritual
into orgy, a great deal of it will seem
exaggerated. In a film where all the


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4 *
o’sueuvan » /
PTYLTD CJr
5? yj* l
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS •: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
start the day right?
/■j
£2
mm
AS
•SKS?
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
acting is better than average, one should
also mention the performance of the
beautifully colored Renoir daughter of
joy on the one hand, and the negroes
singing a spiritual at Christmas with a
bounce and liquid flow and a theme con-
tinually renewing itself that was
reminiscent of the happier moments of
J. S. Bach.
RONALD McCUAIG
One Up, Two to Go
lan Fairweather. Macquarie Galleries.
Sydney.
Jan Riske and Shay Docking. Rlaxland
Gallery.
Tan Fairweather’s exhibition shows
another stage of the struggle in his
work between the attempt to communi-
cate through recognisable images, and
the desire to make the picture
stand on its own as colored
marks on a surface. His suc-
cess both ways contrasts this
im
week with the less-mature work of Shay
Docking and Jan Riske, and shows that
an artist’s aims should not be too limited
if achieving them is going to be of any
value.
Riske’s first group of paintings in
heavily built-up areas of plastic paint are
the most successful. The intricately figured
areas are fascinating when allied to a
strong dominating design, as in
“Microbe” and “Fighting Bulls,” but
in “Willy Willy” the more subtle
toning and lack of principa l contrast
causes these minor inventions of detail
to dominate.
Against all this fresh paint Shay Dock-
ing’s works look rather prosaic.
“Tree Totem,” with its proud
rooster-like form, is the most successful
picture in the gallery, but even it has
lost something in the transformation
from the pastel sketch. Apart from
those dealing with the human figure the
other pastel sketches are all interesting
and in No. 38, “Two Trees,” where the
chalk is allowed to wander and does
things which evoke the feeling of a tree,
she shows, as she does in the drawings,
that she is at her best when she puts down
spontaneously the ideas of the moment.
In contrast to these lan Fairweather
returns to the use of some figurative
elements after the sorties into abstraction
from which he has undoubtedly profited.
Occasionally, as in “Penelope” and in
“Ariadne,” there seems to be a conflict
between the insistence of the pattern of
colors and the boldly drawn figurative
elements, but in “Flight Into Egypt” the
strong abstract would be incomplete with-
out the drawing of the figures.
“Waterfront,” one of the two purely
abstract pictures in this show, is alive
with flowing shapes and controlled linear
movements, but the wonderful thing
about Fairweather is that he can use these
qualities of line and evoke poignant
images at the same time. In “Propa-
ganda,” the vile and the virtuous stand
out as clearly as in a morality play, yet
are made one whole by the sort of lines
with which they are drawn.
To my mind this picture is a master-
piece. In low tones of purple-greys with
earth-pinks and yellow it has a textural
richness reminiscent of the best South
Seas decorative arts, into which is
breathed space. One moves from the
surface of the picture into these spaces
poised in depth and stated with great
economy while within the never repeti-
tive, never dull tracery are hints of figures
and natural images which enable us to
inhabit he spiritual peace of this
painting.
SALMON
Two Adelaide Exhibitions
Wladyslaw Dutkiewicz. R.S.A. Society
of Artists. Robert L. Haberfield.
Wentworth Galleries.
VI/Tadyslaw Dutkiewicz is one of the
* * most influential and best - known
artists within South Australia, though his
work is not so familiar elsewhere. His
exhibition shows the stirring of fresh
imagination amongst work which has
always been professional but inclined also
to be repetitive. He is primarily an
abstract painter, with a great deal of
emotive strength that is, however, always
closely disciplined. His less satisfactory
work is too tightly crowded ; there are
very few areas where the paint has a
chance to expand and glow.
This is not at all true of the excellent
“In Orbit,” or the two paintings on
Antarctic themes, where the rich blues
are clarified and allowed room to breathe,
and the emotion comes through with a
sense of the terrors of space or the loneli-
ness of ice. In a different style, with a
tightly integrated but not stifled palette,
“Toys” works outward from the faint
hint of a realistic rocking-horse’s head
to achieve a simplicity that is none the
less striking for being muted.
A young Victorian painter, Robert L.
Haberfield is a pupil of Clifton Pugh.
His striking self-portrait and various
paintings of fighting birds and tangled
nature are obvious reflections of the mind
and technique of the master.
This is not such a bad thing as it
seems to our dissatisfied age, with its
over-stressing of originality. After all,
the old masters had their schools, and
in those days it was recognised that only
a few artists in a generation are gifted
with the shaping imagination that calls
forth true originality.
Haberfield is strong in his drawing but
weak in his color. In the more conven-
tional paintings the firm construction
carries the whole, but in the more experi-
mental pieces, in a wide variety of styles,
there is an over-emphasis that degenerates
into melodrama.
GEOFFREY DUTTON


MISS RODDA
By
HAL PORTER
Handsome Miss Rodda gave the
teenage lad piano lessons, but
the Woman Always Pays ...»
IT was wet today. A vast voice poured in above the cataract-
ing sea, over the sullied beach, over the streaming
esplanade. Tamarisks tormented themselves in the
immeasurable monologue. My back to the sea, I lifted
my head and saw the mansion in which Miss Rodda lives.
Designed by her architect father, the folly is harrow and
lofty fantasy, a left-over from pantomime. It might aptly have
displayed a siste-viator to buffoons in hooded cloaks with
paint cracking on their grimaces, to masked dwarfs, to Harle-
quin on a plum-duff horse with a mane like Neptune's. I
expected the rain to dissolve the almond paste which must be
the mortar of its gladiolus-colored bricks, or a woman with a
plush rose to appear and rest her bosom on the edge of one
of the wrought-iron balconies.
Even downpour could not tarnish the. gaudiness, nor the
grey raving of the sea outnoise. boulevardian airs from
“Carmen” that seemed to be being played by a velvet-collared
quintette with dirty finger-nails and Pernod breaths. Neither
could my knowledge of the house's interior and occupants
kill that aura of mawkish romance. Perhaps, inside, a word-
haunted ephebe wrote on cards sometimes found in corridors
or trinket-boxes . . Xanthophyll, Quince, Chinchilla, Eau de
Lavande, Crocodilo .... words like signatures of Middle-
European tenors. Or, maybe, among gossip-chairs of ormolu
velveted by a primrose dust, faded some forgotten actress so
frail, a weed-woman, that she must ever recline, posed for no
claque
My eyes climbed the windows hunting the white-leaded
face and restless old mouth of this actress.
I found a face.
High at one corner of the house is an impurely romantic
tower, red-tiled, with a circular window. At this was a doughy
blob, the face of Miss Rodda which I had not seen for ten
years. Then, it was not askew like the head of a hanged bird
nor had it a lopsided smirk. Remembering, for the first time in
years, my last encounter with Miss Rodda, I became embar-
rassed and was about to move off when it' seemed that —
despite the distance between us of space and time —her eyes
turned and looked into mine meaningly as though we were
centimetres apart and intimate. My embarrassment increased ;
I felt guilty, author of a crime too abnormal to be mentioned,
forgiven or recalled. My cowardly eyes, eschewing her deadly
stare, swung down and saw again the gate I had last entered
when fifteen . . . ten years ago ...
IT is Thursday. It rains. A vast voice hurls in above the
careering waters. Tamarisks agonise in the immeasurable
oration ; my raincoat smacks like a fish.
My claws, senseless and violet, slip on the handle of amber
glass. The gate lurches violently in, dragging my skinny body
with it. I fight the gate shut.
Weak now that there is no wind to strive against, I almost
fall on the asphalt separating house from fence. There are
middle-class shrubs, infragrant, dirtily wet.
I do not go to the front door extravagant as a cathedral’s.
Miss Rodda, not looking at me, has said tonelessly, “You will
not come to the front door. You will use one of the side doors.
I shall show you which one.” It is a small door that is entered
from a'long verandah partially glassed-in and having a floor
of tiles with a blue sweat on them. To myself I call this space
a conservatory. Indeed, as soles strike tiles, I whisper, from
habit, “Conservatory!”
Inspired by this I imagine I hear my meagre quick aunt:
“I've had a talk with Miss Rodda. Do you hear me? She's
willing to give you music lessons; three guineas a quarter.
That’s really very cheap. But you mustnit say anything to
anybody—do you hear me? She’s giving lessons only to you.
A favor. Something to occupy her time. She doesn’t need
the money, and she’s not actually a teacher. However, she’s
studied under the best people—do you hear me?—at the
Conservatorium.”
Conservatorium . . . conservatory ... a rabble of invalid
ferns and begonias in green-painted tins with cut and curled
edges. Stepping among these frizzed receptacles I hear the
piano being played. Miss Rodda k playing. It is unbelievable
that she can play such music—chill, fleet, sprinkling. I am
tempted to look in corners, behind the tins, for a naked
urchin of bronze hugging a bronze trout, a fountain.
I knock on the door.
The music, the fountain, goes.
I hear no footsteps. The door makes no sound in opening
yet is open, and Miss Rodda stands there. She is dressed, as
always, darkly. She wears, as always, her necklace of mud-
green beads.
“You are late.” These words have no intonation of
reproach. Her lips scarcely move ; the exterior of her face
is so still .with the stillness of something pendulant that it
seems a sullen fruit blanched in gloom. It is as though not
only the mechanism of voice and emotions is worn-out, but
that some critical inner spring is broken, permitting the subtle
outlines of face, coitfure, shoulders, breasts and hips to sag.
Her feet should be large with down-drawn, unused blood.
They are not. They are small ; they take her swiftly into the
house into which, by legerdemain, she shuts the air as one
would a sick brute.
I follow her, distressed that she will suddenly fuse into
the twilight within, will vanish and leave me vagrant in this
cave of many rooms, many openings, many greenish windows
behind which grope shadows. The house is stupefied, under-
sea. Wind and rain have delivered up tone and potency ;
amorphous shapes, blundering shapes of drowned men, dangle
sluggishly across the panes.
We reach the music-room where* because of candle-light
and a fist of fire and two pianos in which the three candles
and the fire are reflected and re-reflected, there is more an
atmosphere of warmth, of sharp edges and definite planes.


The fire, however, does not warm me as I pass it ; the Wedg-
wood plaques and caskets, the Sheraton barometer, the pie-
crust table, the congested marble of the chimneypiece, oppress
me with their lifeless substance ; here, too, bloated formless-
nesses flounder against the panes.
Fronting the mean fire is an armchair, on it a plaid rug,
body-rumpled. That is his, I think, that is Mr Rodda’s ; he
has been sitting by the fire. I have never seen him, but imagine
him: tiny, dribbling from a pleated mauve face, creeping away
from rug and flame at my knock. He is tottering and shivering
now in one of the rooms with all its doors and windows.
There can be, I am certain, nowhere for him to sit: the absurd
notion has months ago become mine that there are only two
chairs in the house—the armchair and a neo-classical chair,
lyre-backed, which sits before one of the pianos. Two chairs,
one for him to occupy, gnawing his old Mandarin-colored
fingernails; one for her to use as she plays eternally and
disinterestedly watery curves and sprayings of music, while
purposelessly enclosing them in all directions are rooms of
ponderous treasures, coffin air, aquarium-green and nameless
enervating emotions.
I take off my raincoat,
i wind my hands together furtively and painfully to warm
them. It is useless.
1 sit. The top edge of the lyre sticks into my back. I
am forced, reluctantly, to use my voice which does not sound
like my voice, “What shall I play first, Miss Rodda?”
“Your'new scales” —as though she does not care whether
1 play or not. She touches her beads without being aware
that she moves. I direct my hands on to the ice-bound keys
of a piano unwilling to give up its noises. I press down my
right thumb and my left little finger. There is a brief sound ;
immediately after this I am startled to hear Miss Rodda speak
again :
“How is your aunt?” Her voice is tintless, but her
unusual question and its unusual place disconcert me.
1 lift my fingers and begin to weave them together: “She
is very well, thank you, Miss Rodda.”
She says nothing. In the silence, I think, she does not
care if my aunt . . The candle-blades do not move ; the
green wind gulps soundlessly at the windows. Once more, her
voice from the dead of her face: “I told you to play your new
scales.”
Confused, hurt, I rearrange my hands at the keys. I play.
My fingers scrabble foolishly as crabs among the cold whites,
the cold blacks. I make discords, begin again and again and
again.
Is she listening?
She is not watching. At last, desperate, I rattle octaves
down and up, marring triumph by merely one discord. I can
do no better. I stop. She stirs, wavers like something water-
sodden, moves. She touches my shoulder. I stand. She sits.
She plops her hands carelessly into the sneer of the piano.
She plays octaves down and up, down and up, down and up.
It is to continue thus for ever: she embroiders at some taste-
less thought ; she has forgotten me.
And then—horror! —she makes a discord, my discord.
There is no sign that she notices this except an imperceptible
pause, after which, as I stand squeezing hands together and
expecting an unimaginable happening, she begins to play
icily and easily the music of the fountain. While the fountain
criss-crosses jets and arcs of frosty drops her eyes turn with
incredible slowness towards me, and I hear her voice:
“How is your aunt?”
“She’s —she's very well, thank you, Miss Rodda.”
She is very well? That is very nice. That is very nice.”
Her fingers glitter malicious water from the instrument. Then,
frightening me, her voice takes on stinging colors:
“You have been coming to me for a year?”
“Yes, Miss Rodda.”
“You —your aunt owes me for your lessons.”
“I . . .”
“Your aunt owes me twelve guineas.”
“I —I suppose so, Miss Rodda.”
You suppose so! You ! Has your aunt any inten-
tion of paying me?”
I am appalled, humiliated. I do not know what to answer.
I recall that my aunt has said, “It’s a wonder Miss Rodda
hasn’t sent her account. You might say something about it
to her—do you hear me?”
But how am I to explain this? 1 try to speak, am ultimately
able to squawk, “I think my aunt was waiting for your
account”
The result of this makes me call out. Miss Rodda’s hands
flash from the keys ; she springs up, knocking over the chair,
and begins to speak close to my face in a rapid, flaming voice,
“Account! Account! Account! Your wretched aunt had
every right to send the money. Long ago. To send it to me.”
Her voice ceases in a tangle of unseemly sound. She is
panting.
She almost runs to the chimneypiece and strikes her palm
venomously on the marble. Swiftly she hurtles back to where
I stand like a gawk. Her eyes are open, the lids strained back
from the slippery balls. I see how passionate and mobile her
face really is ; she is handsome —straight nose, black eyebrows.
Color gushes to her cheekbones, into her lips. Her teeth are
white, white.
I am too ashamed and terrified to say anything. Indeed,
the one explanation I have is too involved to be impartible.
I can only witlessly watch emotions hacking after each other
upon her face —outrage, despair, anger, hatred. Incapable of
movement, I must see this last distortion intensify: her face
thins, becomes mottled ; her gums show ; her eyes are again
half-hidden by heavy lids.
She grabs my wrist; clips in her fingernails, and squalls
hoarsely, “I must have the money—must — must! Go and get
it! Bring it here immediately! Your wretched aunt —send
an account! —she knows perfectly well I wouldn’t.”
She fiercely pushes at me ; she is thrusting me out of
the room, out of the house. Her necklace of beads snaps,
disappears with a thick cry, leaving her sinister and more
horrifying than before, unrelievedly impure and frantic. I
stumble before her, dodging through a confusion of doors,
beneath towering pedestals on which gesticulate monsters of
metal. I feel that I am plunging through windows, the house
shuffling apart about me ; there seems a muffled clamour of
seas and drunken winds through which Miss Rodda’s voice
flares like a knout, “Go! Go! I must have it! Bring it
tonight! Go!”
I stutter, I babble, and as I flee for a great length of time
my babblings and stutterings seem always behind me, “Yes,
Miss Rodda, tonight. Yes, Miss Rodda’ tonight. I'll bring
it tonight, Miss Rodda. Yes, Miss Rodda, tonight.”
At last, through the last of doors, the wind, rain-
weaponed, bounds at me. A living gate with its inimical glass
handle resists me. God! God! God!
I am catapulted, trembling, on to the beach. I walk,
automatically, for days, years. I have left my raincoat behind
and become saturated. I am horrified at what has happened ;
cannot conceive myself telling my aunt all those immoral,
impossible things. At the same time I am inexplicably dis-
tressed for Miss Rodda ; the wind rips from my mouth the
endless tickets: “She must have it. She must have it. She
must have it.”
I arrive shivering, about to collapse. My aunt pounces
like a jay: “Where on earth have you been? Late for dinner.
Where’s your coat? Where’s your coat?—do you hear me?”
“I left it at Miss Rodda’s.”
You what ? How on earth could you forget your
coat?”
I do not reply.
“Speak, child! How could you forget on a day like today?
You’ll have pneumonia. And what was that idiot of a woman
thinking of to let you go without it? Pneumonia, that’s what.
She must be mad. Go and change—do you hear me?”
It is impossible to explain to my aunt, even to speak
to her. I blame her anger for my silence although realising
that, had she not been angry, I should still not have had
courage to mention either the twelve guineas or Miss Rodda’s
attack.
Thursday night rains by, wails by wind-whipped, creeps
by with its tail between its legs.
I use Friday for the engrossing and subtle occupation of
soothing my aunt.
On Saturday I begin to fret her with elaborate reasons
for taking money to Miss Rodda. I disgustedly listen to-myself
saying such things as, “No, she hasn’t mentioned it. But she’s
been looking at me queerly: it spoils my playing. Anyway,
I’ve got to collect my raincoat—l’ll pay then.” I hear myself
saying thus too many times.
On Sunday I am entirely devoted to my nagging;
nauseated by the knowledge that my aunt will be ultimately


The maturing of a great'whisky can be
hurried by no man. Here in the famous Bond 7
cellars, quietly ageing in oak, are the
fine whiskies that one day will
go to make the Bond 1 blend.
bond *7
Whisky
Jine liqueur whisky
BOND 7
ONE OF THE FIVE GREAT WHISKIES OF THE WORLD
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman)
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. O. S. PETTE/tSEN, Manager.
Brandies in all Slates Agencies In nil Country Centres
influenced by her own common sense rather than my cock-
and-bull rigmaroles.
On Monday, exasperated, my aunt peevishly scratches
a cheque into existence. She vilifies Miss Rodda and threatens
me with castor oil ; she is sure I'm sickening for something—•
do 1 hear her?
-I run, actually run, to the gate with the glass handle.
I knock exultantly on the side door ; I shake with excitement;
my throat is dry as a koala’s. My knock touches off an engine
ol silence in the mansion. Behind this newly started silence
1 uneasily realise another silence—the solid, infrangible silence
that succeeds a cataclysm, the silence of utter cessation.
Suddenly, the lesser silence is patterned with footsteps.
The deeper silence remains untouched. I listen dubiously
to this silence and to the footsteps that make inexorably
through wall after wall towards the door. They are not
Miss Rodda’s. They are too heavy—l am sure of it —to be her
father’s.
Ultimately I hold my breath to watch the door opening
for a long time. When it is completely open, and not until
then, 1 see a very tall, broad, flaccid shape. Strangeness, like
a biblical pillar of smoke, blurs it and its great face. I know
it is staring down at me as though I am a striped pebble.
“Is Miss Rodda in? Please?”
“No.” Its voice is wide and profound ; the sole word,
reverberating back into the colossal husk, seems a paragraph.
Gulliver in Lilliput, the shape awaits me.
“I have brought her money, the money for the music
lessons.”
A mass, a huge hairy hand, advances from the obscurity
and with astonishing delicacy removes the cheque from
between my thumb and finger.
Silence.
What shall 1 say now?
What shall I do?
I attempt to see clearly the shape before me: There is
a buried roar and then: “1 am Mr Rodda.” The voice dustily
drums through dark abbey tunnels in the Giant Despair body.
“My daughter, for whom you have so kindly personally
brought this acceptable cheque, is not at this moment in.
No. My daughter is now a patient in the public hospital.
She is, they tell me, seriously unwell. She cut her throat
early this morning.” I am so hypnotised by the sonorous
echoing, by the soothing and involved modulation of the voice,
that 1 scarcely comprehend the meaning of the words.
Gradually the echoes breathe away within him. Scarcely has
this happened when the voice begins again. This time it
opens strongly ; a blast of anger makes the timbre brazen
rather than resonant and, while the voice remains turned
inward, it tells me the censurable fact: “She used my good
razor.”
I seem to see Miss Rodda’s face, and, infringing on it
more and more quickly like transparent shadows of windmill
sails, expressions of outrage, despair, anger, hatred and—
terror. Then there is stillness, the silence she has left in the
house, the silence of cessation.
As I retreat backwards, blinded by silence, prepared by
polite habit to say goodbye to the gigantic structure into which
the cheque has vanished like white bat into midnight,
I squeak, “I am too late!” Mr Rodda displays by no gesture,
no comment, no slightest movement, that he hears anything.
“1 am too late!”
What do I mean? For what am I too late?
* * * *
Today, with head aw ; ry, face an unravellable knot of
grimace and silence, Miss Rodda looked down from the
tower window. She looked, through rain and time, into my
eyes. Or did she?
It was absurd to imagine her eyes deliberately accusing
from her aerie by the sea above which a cold, immense voice
ranted of some nebulous but desirable freedom, a voice that,
immured in her tower of tiles and lath, in the tower of her
own havocked body, in the tower of her esoteric sorrows,
she could not hear and will never answer now even should
she hear.
It was absurd of me to think unhappily, as I looked up,
of calling out, “I’m sorry, Miss Rodda. I’m so sorry. Rut I
did bring the money as soon as I could.”


LOOK BACK AT ANGER: Low on "Buy Australian"
Y.~ 7
V /
/■
•: yp > />< > ,
t> l . ' ' r*--* ' 'i*7- ’: - . ' y \, v-• ’ ;*
i 1 % : •i! ,■. • .t ;■.-■«&s■ ; *. ■ • -..-. >.• •,••'• ..-•' ; .. ..••.••<•' • -. . ..% v _• ■ • ;■•.<•: ■- • , .••• ■. ;■ >
\/ c
DS
f\i
Ps'P
( *
1H
If
, V-
N-
v V-'
\ \ V N =
_ .I/A
# y
1
\
S
m
i
& \
*
c
(Cr
I
<^o
ftY > ; ,
_y
0
wr-ffAV. i
VV‘ v>. -'
c
UtfW
—From The Bulletin, August 21, 1913
It is the intention of the Government to maintain the accepted Protective policy.
THE KID: “// they're going to leave things as they are, I suppose this silly chase'll have to continue."


Business, Robbery, Etc.
CREDIT RESTRICTIONS
Is Canberra Thawing Out?
TJas the gloomy, chilly ant-
-*-*• arctic night ended? Is
Canberra suddenly thawing out
in the middle of winter?
There are strong indications
that the Federal Treasury has
decided to reverse its economic
air conditioning unit, switching
off the long cold blasts of credit
restrictions and replacing them
by the welcome warmth of a
more liberal fiscal policy.
Last week, Mr Menzies sud-
denly asked us to maintain a
normal level of spending—
whatever that may mean in the
present context. This was
followed soon afterwards by
more tangible evidence of
credit generosity.
Firstly, the Governor of the
Reserve Bank, Dr H. C.
Coombs, after talking things
over with the Federal Cabinet,
intimated that the banking
system should resume “normal”
credit policies after an eight
months’ tight money stretch.
This is a particularly important
development, and may be
linked with the Government's
desire to stimulate sufficient
economic activity to ensure a
balanced Federal Budget for
1960-61. The balancing act
strongly depends on collecting
adequate tax revenues, which
have lately seriously slackened
because of the generally lower
level of company profits and
many classes of personal earn-
ings. This factor may yet be
felt later on, in the 1961-62
Budget year. No doubt, the
Federal Cabinet is anxious to
avoid a deficit Budget, which
may have undesirable inflation-
ary implications, tending to
cancel out a lot of the Govern-
ment’s indisputable deflation-
ary gains secured by the credit
squeeze.
Secondly, Mr Holt has dis-
closed that the Commonwealth
Savings Bank has made avail-
able £5 million for housing, of
which some £3 million has
already been used up.
And thirdly, it is estimated
that housing commencements
have jumped by an impressive
46 p.c. from the rock bottom
low level of 50,000 seven weeks
ago.
Easier credit does not mean
a return to the lax fiscal
climate of the pre-November
days, but rather that the trading
banks will be able to gradually
expand their lending within
judicious limits following the
established banking practices.
The effects of this relaxation of
overdraft policy may not be
clearly visible until the seasonal
demand for bank credit —con-
siderably heavier than usual
this year—is over some time in
July. Then a gradual increase
in the intensity of economic
activity should follow.
It is to be hoped that the
Government is not unduly
alarmed by the level of unem-
ployment in non-basic indus-
tries, and by the hire purchase
industry's difficulties, and will
not turn the knobs too far in
the other direction. Bleak de-
flationary winter need not be
changed into a searing inflation-
ary hothouse summer by a
Hollywood-like magic wand.
Let us have a mild spring in
between, which will allow the
better elements in our economy
to blossom out gradually into
strong beautiful economic
blooms, capable of withstand-
ing the climatic changes on their
own, or almost. If gradual but
continuous transition is not
achieved, much of the hard
won fruits of the credit restric-
tions even may be forfeited.
"C very effort must be made to
ensure a more balanced rate
of economic growth, even if at
the expense of some consumer
goods industries. The Minister
for Primary Industry’s warning
about a possible slowing down
of rural investment has grave
implications. This is a natural
and dangerous corollary of the
growing gap between farm and
industrial incomes. Lower
rural income means lower
rural investment—in an ever
widening vicious circle.
Looking back on the credit
squeeze, it seems clear that
despite some obvious mistakes
in the turning of economic
knobs —always costly and un-
pleasant—the Government’s
anti-inflationary effort has
achieved a considerable degree
of success. Unhealthy trends
in some of the main inflation-
ary sectors have been checked
and some progress, as yet not
enough, made on the road to
a balanced economic develop-
ment.
Here are a few interesting
comparisons—monthly produc-
tion of refrigerators in April,
1960, was 10,300. Last April
the output decreased to 7000.
In April, 1960, 16,900 washing
machines were produced, com-
pared with 13,100 in April,
1961. The production of TV
sets during the same two com-
parable periods was 32,300 and
16,600 respectively, and of
motor vehicle bodies 21,700 and
15,900 respectively.
By contrast, the output of
basic goods increased.
Production of ingot steel rose
from 293,000 tons in April,
1960, to 321,000 last April.
During the same period the
output of cement increased
from 213,000 tons to 231,000
tons ; of black coal —one of our
export earners —from 1,980,000
tons to 2,159,000 tons (March
figures) and of electricity from
1872 million k.w.h. to 1966
million k.w.h.
No one can honestly deny
that these are major, though
perhaps insufficient, successes
and that they came none too
soon.
• At this stage, a credit respite
is called for. Short term tight
money methods have served
their purpose and should be
replaced by a positive long run
economic policy, which will
ensure domestic and overseas
confidence in Australia's future.
E.B.
MONEY
Decimal Currency Delay
According to the newsletter
of the Australian Decimal
Research Organisation, the
Commonwealth Government is
not likely to make any decision
on decimalising the Australian
currency during the remainder
of its present term of office.
Moreover, it is suggested
that, because no decision has
yet been made by the Govern-
ment on the Decimal Currency
Committee’s unanimous recom-
mendation of change, there can
be no changeover on the date
previously mentioned as being
D-Day —the second Monday in
February, 1963.
It is thought that the basic
problem to be solved by the
Government —and possibly one
of the reasons why any an-
nouncement will be delayed
until after the next election —is
that of apportioning the cost of
the machine change-over, esti-
mated at £3O million.
Whereas in South Africa the
entire cost of the machine
change-over to a decimal system
was met from Government
funds, the most favored sug-
gestion of many varied devices
mooted in Australia is that the
Commonwealth should meet
80 per cent, of the cost and
private enterprise meet the
balance.
“Because of the significant
savings which a change-over to
decimal coinage would pro-
duce,” says the A.D.R.O. news-
letter, “it is vital that public
pressure be maintained on the
Government, and on all other
Federal political parties to act
without delay. The public, and
particularly the business com-
munity, should take individual
and collective action to ensure
that decimal currency is made
a plank of every party platform
for the forthcoming Federal
election if no decision is an-
nounced before the middle of
the year.”
It is estimated that at least
20 months will be required by
Australia’s biggest users and
distributors of monetary
machines to organise for a
change to a decimal system.
The Australian Post Office,
apparently recognising that the
change will be made sooner or
later, is reported to be already
working on technical details
regarding the use of coin-
operated telephone and stamp
machines.
WHEAT
Spain
T'he outlook for wheat exports
is again improving. N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture’s
State Marketing Bureau reports
that 150,000 tons of Australian
wheat were recently sold to
Spain, in the face of brisk
American competition.
Although the United States re-
mains a major supplier of wheat
to Spain, Australia has suc-
ceeded in securing a good share
of the Spanish market this
season.


You’ll have an interest in
210
REID MURRAY
enterprises
i m
n
** .
f W.A Made"
W A.: John Allans, "Ch
1C ; Hicks Atkinson Ltd., Melbou/n
' * .4*
iw
l / fS* £-
*I- ;* C m a
%*s;
SSK
iSI
w ;
", t $ r I
N.S.W.: Cowell's White House Pty. Ltd., Sydney
5.A.: David Murray Stores Lt
Housina Development in 5 States
***'..<
hJ
2W»l:t3
OLD Torbreck^ho
JS.A.: Churchill Buildingmggftg&gl.
Home of the Saverys group of compa
mm
Sydney Office
Reg. First
Mortgage
Debenture
Stock
P.A. FOR
8 AND 10
YEARS
Shown above aie just a few of the opera-
ting companies of the Reid Murray group.
All told these include: 197 Retail Stores,
7 Wholesale Warehouses, Real Estate
Companies in 5 States, and the Finance
Co. for the group —Reid Murray Accept-
ance Ltd. An investment in Reid Murray
Acceptance Ltd. is an investment in one
of Australia’s best backed Companies.
Applications accepted only on forms attached
to the Prospectus. Available from:
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67-1924
An? branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Anv member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange-of Melb.
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William Street, Adelaide
403 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.
PAID UP CAPITAL £7,000,000
FIXED LONG TERM STOCK
SHORT TERM NOTICE STOCK
GUARANTEED BY REID MURRAY HOLDINGS LTD.
THE BOND MARKET
Wales View
T>y a mixture of incentives and
compulsions the Common-
wealth Government has tried to
find market support for its
bonds. However, “only by
continued stability of the value
of the pound coupled with
market rates of interest will
adequate support be assured,”
says the Bank of New South
Wales in its latest quarterly
Review.
“Inflation at an annual rate
of three per cent., which has
been relatively moderate in
Australia’s recent experience,
seriously reduces the value of
even next year’s interest pay-
ment,” says the Bank.
“In less than 25 years it
halves the value of the prin-
cipal. Against this inexorable
arithmetic the stark conclusion
is evident that, despite devious
means to compel subscriptions
from susceptible groups of the
financial community, a healthy
bond market can be achieved
only if inflation is effectively
exorcised and if the public has
confidence that the Govern-
ment will maintain the future
value of the currency and of its
own obligations.”
In general, says the Bank,
many of those groups of the
public which traditionally
looked to bonds as a safe and
undoubted form of investment
had not increased their bond-
holdings as their investible
funds accumulated.
Instead, they have sought
alternative investments where
interest rates were higher, and
the prospect of capital appre-
ciation offered the chance of
offsetting the decline in the
purchasing power of money.
The Bank points out that the
decline in investors’ support for
bonds in favor of other forms
of investment had not caused
as serious a reaction in Govern-
ment financial policy as it might
have because conditions of
monetary expansion made it
relatively easy to raise tax
revenues large enough to sup-
plement any shortfall in public
loan subscriptions. Since the
war, virtually all capital works
expenditure by the Common-
wealth Government, except its
advances to the States for
housing, has been financed
from current tax revenue.
“Public loan subscriptions
have been inadequate to cover
even the States’ works pro-
grammes on the current scale
approved by the Loan Council.
In the past ten years over 60
per cent, of all Government
capital works expenditure,


x®i v *-.r 4 - zu
kmmm
a
3k\
1
eques
By far the nicest way of giving is
with a “Wales” Gift Cheque.
“Wales” Gift Cheques are ap-
propriately designed for birthdays,
weddings, Christmas, Mother’s
Day, and general occasions — and
are available at any branch,
whether you have an account or
not. The cost is only Is. 3d.
(including stamp duty) plus the
amount you intend to give.
You can bank on the “Wales”,
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
(incorporated in new south wales with limited liability)
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
Another “Wales” Service
A6114C
Commonwealth and State, has
been financed ultimately from
taxation.”
The Bank says that in recent
years the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment has become increas-
ingly aware of the need to over-
come these difficulties, and to
widen the market for its paper.
The series of special bonds,
with their rising interest rate
and their premium on final
redemption were a step towards
offsetting the fall in money
values.
The fostering of the official
short-term money market is
seen as an attempt to widen
the public market for bonds,
although to some extent it was
merely a substitution for
alternative holdings by the
banking system.
“It is not easy in a political
context to point out that there
is nothing particularly sacred
about a low rate or excessively
obnoxious about a higher rate
of interest. What was import-
ant was to set such a rate for
public borrowing in the
ruling financial circumstances
as would permit the Govern-
ment to borrow for its capital
works programmes without
either accentuating inflation or
initiating deflation, but at the
same time be sufficiently attrac-
tive to assure a full spread of
public subscription.
“In a variable economic
scene a government bond has
two outstanding attractions
which should commend it
strongly to all classes of in-
vestor. Its coupons and its
final payment is undoubted,
and the current rate, in the
vicinity of 51 per cent, for a
long-term bond, is a reasonable
return for such undoubted
security.”
HIRE PURCHASE
Down, But Not Crippled
TTire purchase and finance
companies were a classical
target for Government econo-
mists, when the Federal
Treasurer set loose the chilly
winds of the credit squeeze
last November.
Motor vehicles manfacturers
and distributors suffered, con-
sumer goods producers
moaned, the builders lamented
and the retailers uttered re-
signed groans. But the loudest
and most bitter words came
from the hire purchase and
finance people, who were hit
directly by a series of imme-
diate measures, and also suf-
fered from the effects of re-
duced trading in all the other
affected sectors.
And yet, the Government’s
deflationary moves in reality
only accentuated a natural
economic trend. Perhaps, that
was why the blows were so
painfully felt and had to be
softened by the reintroduction
of deductibility of interest
charges on borrowings for taxa-
tion purposes.
And now the Government
has announced, though not in
detail, an intention to ease
credit; an intention to boost
business activity, if not directly,
then indirectly, through stimu-
lation of various selected sec-
tions of industry.
Hire purchase had its best
days during the great TV
boom. As the TV and electri-
cal consumer goods markets
approached saturation point,
the growth rate slumped. This
was reflected in the volume of
agreements signed. The annual
growth rate of hire purchase
outstandings declined from
25.4 p.c. in 1957-58 to 18.9 p.c.
in 1959-60.
Financing sales of motor
vehicles was another major
hire purchase prop. Demand
for cars remained high right
until the credit restrictions
were brought into the picture,
their effect reinforced by the
short lived hike in the sales
tax on motor vehicles.
High earnings by finance
companies at the peak of the
hire purchase boom had the
inevitable effect of causing
a wave of new entries into the
industry. Competition became
more brisk, the cost of bor-
rowings and operations rose
and profit margins were
trimmed. Moreover, the
decidedly competitive trading
conditions forced the hire pur-
chase companies to increase
their range of services and
keep as low as possible the
charges to customers. Well
before the Government
stepped in to break the boom
many sighs were heard from
the finance companies.
Competition in financing
sales of motor vehicles was
particularly severe and many
weaker companies cut down
deposits below the safe mini-
mum.
The rates of repossessions
mounted, eating away further
into the earning rates.
Trying to find a way out
of the difficulties, the hire
purchase industry had some
time ago turned to diversifica-
tion. Restrictions on bank
advances enabled the larger
finance companies to provide
funds for real estate, personal
loans, leasing, etc., at sorae-
what higher interest rates. The
Bank of New South Wales
Review points out that “by
entering the general business
financing and personal loans
field, these companies seek to
avoid the heavy stamp duty
that is now payable on normal
hire purchase transactions.”
When the credit squeeze
came last November it had
only further accentuated,
admittedly severely, a natural
trend.
The Treasurer’s hefty blow
was, therefore, all the more
painfully felt. From a peak
of £449.7 million in December,
1960, the volume of hire pur-
chase outstandings fell by
£23.8 million to £425.9 million
at the end of March, 1961.
Falls in outstandings were
registered every month,
The number of hire pur-
chase agreements declined
accordingly. Last November
105,350 new agreements for
financing the purchase of all
types of goods were signed.
The total value of goods in-
volved was £43.2 million, of


Invest with confidence
in a company with a sound growth
record and secure asset backing
• . . ideal for either
long or short term investment.
FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
•. .in multiples oj £lOO, payable injull
upon application , . . unconditionally guaranteed by
Retailers Acceptance Ltd. . . . assets exceed £3,400,000
•. , registers Sydney and Brisbane
91(17 per* annum
2/0 6-10 years
9%
per annum
4-5 years
2/0
per annum
2-3 years
8(1/ P er annum
/0 12 mths. fixed
per annum
9 mths. notice
n
per annum
6 mths. notice
6%
. per annum
3 mths. notice
interest payable
quarterly
jree of exchange
RETAILERS
ACCEPTANCE
•an
(*<nt>)
280 PITT ST., SYDNEY. PHONE MA2373
509 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE. PHONE 31 1951
Underwriting Brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL ... 20 O' Connell St., Sydney, &
340 Queen St., Brisbane.
LIONEL A. McFADYEN & CO. . , 20 O'Connell St., Sydney, &
Musgrave St., Port Moresby.
LANCE JONES & CO. ... . , . 108 Creek St., Brisbane, &
108 Victoria Street, Mackay.
Banker for the issue > BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES
Trustee for the Debenture Stockholders:
BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES NOMINEES PTY. LTD.
Prospectus and Applications:
A copy of the Prospectus has been lodged with the Registrar of
Companies, Brisbane, Applications accepted only on the application
form attached to the Prospectus, which may be obtained from
e any member of a recognised Stock Exchange • Retailers
Acceptance (Qld.) Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane • all branches
Bank of New South Wales In N.S.W., Q’ld., and New Guinea
e the offices of the underwriting brokers.
which £29 million was financed
by hire purchase lending.
In February, 1961, only
65,088 agreements were signed
and the amount of finance pro-
vided was £14.8 million a
drop of almost 50 p.c. The
situation improved somewhat
in March, when the outstand-
ings climbed up by some £3
million to £17.8 million. Most
of the additional lending was
used to finance sales of motor
vehicles, which showed a ten-
dency to increase following the
abolition of the additional
sales tax at the end of
February.
It is unlikely that the Gov-
ernment will undertake any
further direct measures to
bring relief to the hire pur-
chase industry, unless some
particular economic or poli-
tical emergency arises
warranting a shock stimulus
to the aggregate level of de-
mand. The possibilities of this
at this stage are remote. It
appears that the Government
prefers to keep the finance
companies pinned down to
prevent a dangerously rapid
recovery in demand in the in-
flation-prone durable con-
sumer goods sector. With this
policy there can be little dis-
pute. The reintroduction of
deductibilty of interest on
borrowings and a partial easing
of credit should be help enough
Hire purchase performs an
important and valuable ser-
vice, lubricating many of the
wheels which keep the Austra-
lian economic mechanism run-
ning. But in the past years
it had concentrated excessively
on financing the development
of some, of the more infla-
tionary non-basic industries,
and this unhealthy trend had
to be terminated. Diversifica-
tion and elimination of high
cost marginal firms will ensure
that the finance companies find
a secure and proper place in
the national economy —earn-
ings may be less spectacular
than in the peak years, bui
the growth rate more steady
and secure.
THE ECONOMY
A Wider View
By CHARLES MEEKING
Ourely it’s time that even the
*■“** professional purveyors of
gloom, including some of the
politicians, lift their sights a
little and have a look at what
is happening elsewhere. Aus-
tralia’s economy is largely
dependent, as Mr Menzies re-
cently reminded us, on the sales
of our primary products on
world markets, but in spite of
this we are still a lot better off
than some large and supposedly
wealthy nations.
In the Victorian State elec-
tion campaign, Labor is making
much of the unemployment
figures, and will doubtless also
try to do so in the coming
Federal and N.S.W. campaigns.
But although about 100,000 are
out of work, the proportion is
far lower, for example, than in
Canada or the United States.
Anyone who remembers or
finds out what the Seullin Labor
Government did to business
and the economy, while it was
in office for a couple of sad
years during the depression,
will most certainly not fall for
the argument mentioned re-
cently in The Bulletin, that it
would do the Menzies Govern-
ment good to be put out of
office for a while. Defeat
might cut the outlook of some
Ministers down to size, ad-
mittedly, but in the interval the
ruining of business on a major
scale, and the sc * e given by
socialism and its works to
overseas capital, would be
utterly and dreadfully destruc-
tive.
The pressures which this
country is now facing—and to
a considerable extent overcom-
ing—are caused by domestic
policies only in a minor degree.
They rise, like tidal waves, from
far out in the sea.
The battle for markets for
primary and secondary pro-
ducts is now on in grim earnest.
Western and Eastern Europe,
the more industrialised nations


A <;• . ' ' Ai 5
T •W. ,/••
You’re so right...
insist on
LACK &
BLACK & WHITE
WHITE'
SCOTCH WHISKY
‘BUCHANANS’
By Appointment
to Her Majesty The Queen
Scotch Whisky Distillers
James Buchanan & Co. Ltd.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO. LTD. Glasgow • Scotland • London
3456
A^G6vE? s r L?Mrr i f P
m
m
1*
A happier choice for every occasion . . .
WINE
Fine wine adds pleasure to living . . . and you’ll
find no happier choice than Angove’s Wine of mature
perfection. Angove’s FINO DRY SHERRY, superbly
dry and appetising, is an excellent introduction to the
distinctive range of Angove’s TABLE WINES . . . each
the result of care and skill in wine making, combined
with the rich soil and sunshine of South Australia’s
glorious Murray Valley.
You will enjoy Angove’s Wine
APERITIF, TABLE AND DESSERT WINE OF HIGHEST
QUALITY: SHERRY, VERMOUTH, BURGUNDY, CLARET,
HOCK, RIESLING, SAUTERNES, PORT, MUSCAT,
and ST. AGNES BRANDY of course!
ANGOVE’S LTD., RENMARK, S.A.
WINE MAKERS & DISTILLERS
YOUR FAVOURITE BRANDY .
ST? AGNES BRANDY
of Asia, the countries of North
and South America are all seek-
ing markets, and are using
techniques which are often
much more advanced than our
own.
We still have some good
things to sell, and some of our
prices are still reasonably com-
petitive (at times because of in-
ternal subsidies), but the out-
look is not reassuring.
Instead of moaning about the
policies of the Menzies Govern-
ment, Australians should be
concentrating on using every
opportunity to find and exploit
present and prospective
markets. Bankers help those
who help themselves.
INVESTMENT
Fattening Shares
anybody who bought 100
B.H.P. shares for £306 :n
January, 1951, and took up all
his rights to new issues in the
ten years that followed, had the
satisfaction of knowing by the
end of December, 1960, that he
had made a total capital gain
of 218 p.c., giving him an
I average annual return over the
.10 years (with dividends) of no
less than 21 \ p.c.
Over the same period, the
average annual return has been
even greater than that for share-
holders in such companies as
Australian Chemical Holdings
(60 p.c.), Brambles Industries
s(7l p.c.), Carrier Air (55 p.c.),
Koitaki Rubber (83 p.c.), Life
Savers (83 p.c.), Marley Reli-
ance (98 p.c.), Minster (108
p.c.), and Rocla Industries (65
p.c.).
Any moneylender who asked
for interest as spectacularly
high as any of those figures
would be promptly damned as
an out-Shylocker of Shylock,
and yet these are the returns
that have been coming to
thoroughly respectable citizens
who have done their “money-
lending’" by way of investment
in shares.
Capital gain from 1951 to the
end of 1960 is the matter
emphasised in the remarkably
thorough and informative
“Analysis of Australian Invest-
ments” (the 10-year records of
206 companies are considered)
just published by the Sydney
sharebroking house of Roland
Walton and Company.
Published with a spiral back
so that any of its 200-odd pages
can be opened to lie flat with
ease, this book bases its capital
growth calculations on a
formula whereby the gain or
loss on market prices in any
[one year is calculated as a per-
centage, based upon average
capital employed during the
I year. Mr Walton and his con-
sultants make the reasonable
claim that their method makes
lor the most accurate measure-
ment possible of capital growth.
Although this book takes the
evidence of the past 10 years
its basis for a decidedly
bullish foreword about the
Prospects for the next 10 years,
the 206 company careers
analysed do not overlook a
good many of the companies
who performed poorly or dis-
appointingly during the decade,
It is pointed out that the 206
companies were not specifically
chosen for performance but
as being representative of a
wide range of Australian in-
dustry.
The high integrity of the
book is enhanced by the fact
that no “sales-talking" attempt
j s made anywhere to avoid the
squeeze-depressed market prices
G f December, 1960, as a basis
G f calculation. A novel feature
j s the inclusion with the record
D f every company of a graph
showing the 10-year progress
G f ne t profits, dividend payouts
and retained profits, this last
]j ne being a most important
indicator of financial strength.
It js dear lhat the spectacu _
|-,,jy so lid capital gains made
j n (l f man y companies
much exceed the kdvancM in
mone y value that inflation
might have caused over (he
period. Nevertheless, many in-
vestors mj ht have welcome( r


FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS, £891,419.
TANGIBLE ASSETS. £3,184,264.
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
Financing world-
famous products
distributed by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies.
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
LISTER
Engines
GROUP SALES
IN 1960
£14,757,281
MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 1/4/61, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
8.24/6
HD82.8
some indication through this
book of what the advance in
the money value of their hold-
ings means in terms of the real
purchasing power of money.
E.L.B.
UNITED STATES
U.S. Hopes
United States Undersecre-
tary of Commerce, Mr
Edward Gudeman, estimates
the U.S. balance of payments
deficit at 1500 million dollars
this year (3800 in 1960 and
1959).
This was the first public
estimate of the 1961 deficit
made by a top United States
Government official. Mr Gude-
man warned, however, that the
danger of a higher deficit has
not yet passed, and said that
American exports could decline
again if the European and
Japanese expansionary booms
moderated, while improved
business conditions in the
United States could cause an
increase in imports.
Speculator's Diary
Monday, June 19
HPhe Queen’s Birthday week-
end brought mixed tidings.
First, the fact that my services
to myself and the world of
speculation are still going un-
recognised. Second, the annual
report from the inhabitants of
Asbestos House, viz., the direc-
tors of James Hardie Asbestos
Ltd. Only six weeks ago I
was remarking that James Har-
die was one of that merry little
group of companies which are
as likely as not to declare a
profit which is less than the
disclosed tax provision. This,
I was saying, was at least better
than not disclosing the tax pro-
vision at all. Unfortunately, I
didn’t do anything about buy-
ing James Hardie shares which
were then selling at 675. 6d.
But this didn’t prevent me from
buying 100 last Tuesday at 775.
The reason for this bit of
recklessness was the annual
report which showed a profit
of £574,000, a tax provision of
£821,000 and a depreciation
provision of £1,066,000! James
Hardie has managed two large
bonus issues in the last five or
six years and, judging by those
figures, the next one can’t be
far off.
This purchase made a size-
able dent in my finances which
were standing at only £3Ol. I
looked around for something to
sell and wished I could get rid
of those 132 Marley Tile shares
I have and which are still not
listed on the Sydney Stock Ex-
change. It is now four months
since the Marley Tile Company
of England made a most un-
generous offer for the remain-
ing shares in Marley Reliance
which it did not already own.
What Marley Tile neglected to
say, when making that offer,
was that one of the terms of the
takeover would be that there
would be no local market in
the shares for four months or
more. The point that makes
me sore is that in the meantime
the London stock market (and,
presumably, Marley Tile’s
price) has boomed and then
slumped.
So, not being able to sell
Marley Tile, I decided that
those 400 Watkins Consolidated
looked expendable at 6s. and
sold them for an £ll profit.
At the same time I was
getting increasingly uneasy
about the 100 1.C.1. I shorted
the week before. With the
market showing no sign of
weakening, I bought them back
at 78s. (the price I sold them
at) and lost the £ll brokerage
and stamp duty.
Then, just as I had my
finances in order again, along
came a broker's circular urging
me to buy McDonald Indus-
tries. Now brokers’ moments
of inspiration seem to be few
and far between but this broker
seemed to have something in
recommending McDonald In-
dustries. Admittedly, it is a
construction company, but a
very specialised sort of con-
struction company concentrat-
ing on industrial projects for
the oil, chemical, steel and other
basic industries. What struck
me was that McDonald shares
seemed very favorably priced
at 13s. 6d. compared to Lend
Lease at 16s. 6d.
What has Lend Lease got
that McDonald’s hasn’t? A
good publicity agent and that’s
about all. The dividend rates
are the same and McDonald’s
earning rate is higher. So I
bought 300 McDonald at
13s. 6d.
Again, I needed to raise £2OO
cash. This time I picked on my
remaining 300 lohn Darling
shares because that rumored
takeover still hasn’t materialised
—profit £4l.
The week's transactions
were:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Total I’er rent
Shares Company Cost Share Price
400 An till It. £251 12/3 13/ -
100 Pick-Me-Up 414 81/0 £5/3/-
500 Meriea 165 6/4 7/-
500 Stocks &
Holdings def. 212 8/3 9/-
200 Tom Piper 235 22/3 26/-
200 Hornibrook 234 23/- 23/-
200 Parbury
Henty 174 17/- 16/9
200 Marrickville 217 21/3 25/6
132 Marley Tile 158 24/-
400 David Jones
notes 207 10/- 10/3
200 Concrete Ind.
contribs. 96 9/5 9/8
400 N. B. Love
contribs. 94 4/8 5/4
500 Newcastle Ten
Pin Bowling 125 5/-
300 Moran &
Cato 299 19/6 19/9
400 Phillips Oil 100 5/-
400 Beady Mixed 276 33/6 1 ->/3
100 James Hardie 391 77/- 79/3
300 McDonald 207 13/6 14/-
BOUGHT
100 James Hardie at
77/- £391
300 McDonald at 13/6 £207
100 I. C. I. A.N.Z. at
78/- £396
SOLD
400 Watkins Consoli-
dated at 6/- .. .. £ll6
300 John Darling at
10/6 £154
These transactions still left
me £3B behind, but maybe I
will be able to cover this with
some Ready Mixed Concrete
later this week.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Industrial Acceptance Holdings Ltd
Uvolved in a credit conscious western
L' world, hire purchase constitutes one
I of the remarkable phenomena of the 20th
I century. In Australia the post-war
[period —an era marked by increasing
refinement in business and business
techniques—has seen a spectacular boom
in hire purchase. In 1945 the debt out-
| standing on h.-p. contracts was less than
£6 million. Spurred on by removal of
[Capital Issues controls, it reached £lOO
'million by mid-1952, £2OO million by the
end of 1955 and today exceeds £4OO
; million.
But times are changing—“ The old order
changetn, yielding place to new.” In
recent years there has been a slowing
down in the rate of growth of h.-p. busi-
ness and in recent months a sudden drop
The dramatic upsurge is over.
The drop comes as a direct consequence
of governmental interference on the
economic plane per medium of the credit
squeeze. The slowing down is due partly
to the tapering off of sales of television
receivers after the boom in 1958 and to
the fact that retailers are financing sales
increasingly from within their own
organisations; also the large houses (h.-p.
houses) have tended towards a wider
range of interests (diversification), shift-
ing resources from traditional fields of
h.-p. activity. They are questing more
profitable employment of funds; the
possibility of more lucrative horizons—
trends accelerated, in no small measure,
by heavy stamp duties encumbent upon
the normal type h.-p. transaction ; given
extra impetus, in many instances, by in-
creasing rates of repossessions.
After reaching a peak of £449.7 million
in December, 1960, the public’s outstand-
ing debt to h.-p. cos. fell progressively,
month by month, to reach £425.9 million
at the end of March (down £23.8 million).
Provisional figures indicate a further fall
of £6 million in April.
The decision to abandon, as from the
end of June, the temporary legislation
introduced in November, 1960, disallow-
ing as taxation deductions, interest
charges on capital raisings by debentures
and deposits, can be reckoned on restoring
some degree of confidence to the h.-p.
industry. But prospects, generally, remain
tight. Sales of both new and used cars,
plant and machinery, and household and
personal goods, have been affected, and
continue to be affected, by scarcity of
funds (the credit squeeze). The home
building situation is far from satisfactory
and h.-p. cos can expect strong competi-
tion, fund-wise, when they re-enter the
capital market in July—they will encoun-
ter stepped-up rivalry from the higher
interest rates presently offered on gov-
ernment bonds and trading bank interest-
bearing deposits.
Often described as the largest Aus-
tralian h.-p. finance house, Industrial
Acceptance Holdings Ltd operates
throughout the Commonwealth. The
group finances hire purchase transactions
to cover motor vehicles, farm equipment,
machinery furniture, domestic appliances,
etc. The I.A.H. organisation includes two
operating insurance subsidiaries within
its framework, the Ajax Insurance Co
Ltd and the Surrey Insurance Co. Ltd,
to serve both the group’s h.-p. customers
and outside clients, writing fire, accident
and general policies. In addition I.A.H
holds the share capital of the Union
Building Society, one of the three largest
building societies in Victoria —the Union
Building Society was taken over during
1959 on a share exchange, cash basis ,
four ss. ords. for every three 10s. ords.
of U. 8.5., plus a cash payment of 2s. a
share.
The A.N.Z. Bank is the co’s trading
bank associate. It holds a 14 p.c. share
interest in I.A.H.—a relatively modest
stake compared with other similar finance
cos and trading bank ties.
Originally controlled by an American
concern, Industrial Acceptance Corp.
had been in business on its own account
for almost 25 years when I.A.H. took over
as a holding co. in 1954, through what
was in effect, a three-for-two bonus issue
Since then share issues in 1955 (one-for-
five) and fone-for-seven), both at
a 50 p.c. premium, together with the issue
to the A.N.Z. in 1957 (at an 80 p.c.
premium) and the issue to U.B.S. interests,
have lifted ord. capital to £8,200,000 and
share premium reserve to £2,725,000, a
further £1,000,000 of pref. capital carry-
ing a cumulative 6 p.c.
Finance co’s profits are determined by
the difference between charges made to
consumers, and expenses, which include
interest paid on borrowed funds, the cost
of collecting instalments from the hire
purchasers and bad debts arising by
default of borrowers.
I.A.H handled a record volume of
business in the 12 months to December
31, 1960, total business topping the £lOO
million mark (up £2O million odd) —out-
standings jumped a massive £12,483,342
to £87,819,566. Group gross profit from
trading (including earned insurance pre-
miums) finished up £2,183,215 higher at
£13,472,279, earnings from general invest-
ments brought in another £98,343 (up
£30,957) and sundry income grossed
£11,954 (down £74,899) —in all a total
of £13,582,576 (up £2,139,273).
Unfortunately operating expenses in-
creased, too, and at an even more rapid
rate. This was particularly noticeable
in the activities of the insurance offshoots.
There was a steady increase of premium
income but this was offset to a very large
degree by claims in the motor vehicles
department. The insurance subsidiaries
finally turned in a net profit, after tax,
down £162,249 at £137,617. It is antici-
pated, however, “that increased motor
vehicle premiums effective Ist January,
1961, should in due course assist the
motor vehicle results.”
Total operating expenses, for the group
as a whole, and inclusive of insurance
claims paid and outstanding, climbed
£1,481,975 to £7,521,946. Total costs,
including depreciation £51,262 (down
£2189), taxation £1,116,698 (down
£10,525) and interest charges £3,165,975
(up £802,994), not to mention stamp
duties £483,100, increased by £2,277,159
to £11,894,054.
Consolidated net profit came home
finally a somewhat diminished £1,714,782
(down £93,248), the decrease attributable
in large measure to reduced profitability
applicable insurance activity:
Industrial Acceptance Holdings, Ltd.
, Dividends To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total serves. serves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
Tax underprovided, £19,559 .. ..2,725,381
From contingency reserve, £200,000 2,925,381
Preliminary exp. written-off, £56,812. . 2,868,569
1954 1.629,937 6 f 644,167 985,770 3,854,339
Tax overprovided, £54,674 .. .. 3,9u9,013
From profit-suspense, £ 12,982 .. 3,921,995
Share-issue expenses, £42,393 .. 3,879,692
Share premiums, £500,000 .. .. 4,379,602
Res. I.A.C. capitalised, £3,000,000.. 1,379,602
Share-premiums 1.A.C., £500,000 .. 1,879,602
1955 1,882,831 6 16§ = 976,607 906,164 2,785,766
Tax overprovided, £10,026 .. .. 2,795,792
1956 1,818,824 6 161=1,060,000 758,824 3,554,616
Share-premiums. £400,000 .. .. 3,954,616
Intangibles written-off. £501,920 .. 3,452,696
Tax overprovided, £1571 .. .. 3,454,267
To tax on income carried forward,
£lOO,OOO 3,354,267
1957 2,204,518 6 16§ =1,085,342 1,119,176 4,473,443
Share-issue expenses, £25,000 .. .. 4,448,443
Tax overprovided, £3680 .. .. 4,452,123
Share-premiums, £950,000 .. .. 5,402,123
1958 2,195,429 6 16-j =1,295,959 899,470 6,301,593
Share premiums, £200,000 .. .. 6,501,593
Capital profit, £31,200 .. .. 6,532,793
Loss sale assets, £2515 .. .. 6,530,278
Tax overprovided, £6513 .. .. 6,536,791
1959 1,808,030 6 16-j =1.426,666 381,364 6,918,155
Capital profit, £342 6,918,497
Loss sale assets, £1415 .. .. 6,917,082
Tax overprovided, £6404 .. .. 6,923,486
1960 1,714,782 6 16§ =1,426,666 288,116 7,211,602
* Subject to intangibles, written out of the accounts
in 1957. f 10 p.c. prior to formation of holding co.
and 8J p.c. afterwards.
After satisfying the unchanged pref. dive
requirements, this was equivalent to an
earning rate of 20.2 p.c. on ord. capital,
compared with 21.3 p.c. in the preceding
term, and 28.9 p.c., 34.8 p.c., 29.3 p.c.,
33.4 p.c., and 26.7 p.c. back to 1954.
The consolidated net profit was claimed
after calculating unearned h.-p. income
at £13,462,747 (up £3,714,354), or 15.3 p.c.
of outstandings (12.9 p.c. in 1959).
The steady 16f p.c. dividend absorbed
£1,366,666. Reserves received £288,116
and also benefited sundry items including
£6404 tax overprovided in the previous
term. There was a net loss of £1415 on
disposal of capital assets, leaving disclosed
reserves and undistributed earnings at
£7,211,602, free of intangibles.
Last term was marked by another big
increase in debentures which leapt by
£6,333,527 to £53,209,235. The group has
made a practice of borrowing debenture
as opposed to deposit money and con-
sequently has little to fear in the way of
a “run” on its liquid resources. Total
h.-p. outstandings, debtors and stock
jumped by £12,483,342 to £87,819,566.
The percentage of borrowings (excluding
creditors, up £425,755 at £3,627,688) to
outstandings was 60.6 p.c. (62.2 p.c. in
1959) at balance date. The true per-
centage would be somewhat higher,
because of the inclusion of stock and
debtors, in the overall figure for outstand-
ings, in the balance sheet.
Outstandings represented 95.34 p.c. of
I.A.H.’s total consolidated assets (92.98
p.c., 93.4 p.c. and 94.1 p.c. back to 1957).
the proportion illustrating sharp reversal
of the earlier downward trend. The
ratio of borrowings to shareholders funds


PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
R. H. ALLEN, M. R. L. DOWLING,
P. R. LEVY, A, P. REYNOLDS. N. R.
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner).
Delfln House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
26-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building, 150 Queen St.,
Melbourne. 67-5951 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney.
Melbourne, or Wollongong.
JOHN N. ROBERTSON
member of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHAKE BROKER.
Temple Court,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne C.l.
Telephones: 67 4804, 67 2465
Telegrams & Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
%
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE
CO. LTD.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth with repre-
sentatives and agents in
country centres.
Transacting
FIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
GENERAL INSURANCE
Hunter and A. Mcwilliams,
O’Connell Sts., Manager
Sydney.
was 3.2 to 1 (2.9 to 1 in 1959). The ratio
of outstandings to paid capital finished
up at 9.5 to 1 (8.1 to 1).
Cash, Commonwealth bonds, deposits,
prepayments, etc., amounted to £1,581,978
(down £2,031,425). Freeholds advanced
£39,743 to £1,319,280, office equipment
£63,097 to £383,924 and investments
£61,725 to £239,243. Creditors jumped
£425,755 to £3,627,688:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1958. 1959. 1960.
Pref. .. £1,000,000 £1,000,000 £1,000,000
Ord. .. 8,100,000 8,200,000 8,200,000
Reserves .. 6,301,593 6,918,155 7,211,602
Unearned income 7,357,382 9,748,393 13,462,747
Minority interest 4,519 580
Debentures, etc. 33,422,912 46,875,708 53,209,235
Creditors, etc. 2,625,180 3,201,933 3,627,688
Reserve unex-
pired risks.. 2,765,593 2,960,690 3,241,456
Staff funds . . 226,547 267,490 327,519
Suspense .. • --
Tax provision 1,361,454 1,127,224 1,117,129
Final dividends 705,685 713,797 714,044
£63,866,346 £81,017,909 £92,112,000
Freeholds .. 920,278 1,279,537 1,319,280
Office equip-
ment .. 352,257 320,827 383,924
Investments .. 173,075 177,518 239,243
Home unit
properties .. 99,988
H.-p. contracts 59,598,390 75,336,224 87,819,566
Cash, prepay-
ments .. 2,758,077 3,613,403 1,581,978
Suspense .. 64,269 290,400 668,021
£63,866,346 £81,017,909 £92,112,000
I.A.H. remains in a strong financial
position as far as financial structure and
earning power are concerned. Net tan-
gible assets backing works out, at close
of the accounts, at £l6 Bs. 3d. the prefs.,
9s. sd. the ords.
As to the future: the Government
economic measures have affected avail-
ability of funds and on present indica-
tions the volume of business expected
to be handled during the current term
will be less than that handled in 1960.
But present prospects give some grounds
for encouragement —“every endeavor is
being made to ensure maximum profit-
ability by the application of economies
and the selection of profitable business.”
And now the Government has an-
nounced, though not in detail, an inten-
tion to ease credit; an intention to boost
business activity, if not directly, then in-
directly, through stimulation of various
selected sections of industry. Moreover
the co. has obtained authorisation from
Volkswagen (Australasia) Pty and Aus-
tralian Motor Industries Ltd to handle
h.-p. sales of these co’s vehicles in some
States. The Volkswagen agreement ex-
tends to W.A., S.A. and N.S.W. The
A.M.I. agreement covers h.-p. sales of
vehicles, tractors and farm implements
in Vic. and N.S.W.
I.A.H. will not be allowed to claim
tax-wise (for the period November 15,
1960 to June 30 next) interest charges on
borrowings in excess of the amount
which would have been paid for interest
in the current year, having regard to the
commitments of the co. for interest as
on November 15 last. But significantly
the latest debentures issued by I.A.H.
went out as at November 15, so that the
co., by sheer good fortune, has just missed
out on the heavier tax burdens.
At the last sale in Sydney, the ss. ords.
changed hands at 13s. (from a peak of
18s. 3d. in 1960 and a low of Bs. 9d.) yield-
ing an immediate 6.4 p.c. on the basis of
the steady 16f p.c. div. rate.
Burns, Philp and Co, Ltd
Preparation of a satisfactory con-
-*• solidated balance - sheet by Burns,
Philp and Co. Ltd., when the new Com-
panies Act comes into force, will be “a
big and intricate job,” said chairman
Mr James Burns, at the annual general
meeting last month.
The directors would do the best pos-
sible to meet the conditions of the new
Act, he said.
Possibly the only difference it would
make to shareholders would be a delay
of two or three months in the preparation
of the consolidated balance-sheet. The
annual dividend should be declared, as
usual, during the second half of May of
each year.
Incorporated in N.S.W. in 1883, Burns,
Philp is perhaps best known as a ship-
owner, merchant and island trader and
planter, but the co. is also a huge
property owner and investor. Burns,
Philp operates shipping services between
Australia, New Guinea, the New
Hebrides, the Solomon Islands and
Singapore, and, as well, a network of
inter-island lines in the Pacific ; it also
conducts extensive merchandising activi-
ties throughout Australia and New
Zealand. There are over 40 copra planta-
tions in New Guinea and the islands,
and investments include shares in
Queensland Insurance Co. Ltd., Bankers
and Traders’ Insurance Ltd, Jantzen
(Aust.) Ltd and G. J. Coles and Co. Ltd.,
along with scrip in a wide spread of
banks, manufacturers, merchants and
mining concerns all shown at modest
book values. Major subsidiaries are
Burns, Philp (South Sea) Co. Ltd., and
its offshoot, Burns, Philp (New Hebrides)
Ltd, Burns, Philp (New Guinea) Ltd
(traders and plantation owners); Burns,
Philp Co. of San Francisco (buying and
selling agents) and Burns, Philp Trust
Co. Ltd.
In common with many of the preced-
ing 77 years, last year, to March 31, 1961,
was a fairly prosperous one for the
Burns, Philp family. Just how prosperous
the board prefers not to say in detail,
the accounts being restricted, as usual,
to a rather cautious assessment of the
parent co.’s position. From an investment
angle much depends on the future board-
room attitude towards shareholders, dis-
counting, of course, the almost certain
revelation of hidden strengths pending
presentation of consolidated accounts
under the new Act.
According to Mr Burns “the volume
of merchandise sales has shown a
pleasing increase, but profit percentages
have been forced down by keener com-
petition. “Revenues from investments
and other sundry sources were satisfac-
tory” but “shipping operations have
again proved unprofitable due to the
impact of increasing operational costs
and other uncontrollable factors.”
There is little doubt, however, that the
huge Burns, Philp interests, despite set-
backs, continue to do well. Bonus issues,
the first in almost 40 vears, went out in
1958-59 and 1959-60, the first on a one-
for-four basis, the second on a one-for*
five basis, lifting equity, in each instance
by £1,000,000, but scarcely an indication
that the board feels more generously


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies’ Act of New South Wales on Bth March, 1950)
(ASSETS EXCEED £7,500,000)
CC-71
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
Funds may be withdrawn
in a personal emergency.
Increased interest rates
apply on renewal of
investments. Interest paid
quarterly FREE of
Exchange through the
Bank of N.S.W.
Obtain prospectus and
application forms from any
branch of the Bank of N.S.W.
The Company’s Offices,
Ground Floor, Cambridge
House. 249 George Street.
Sydney. ’Phone: BU 5542.
411-413 Lonsdale St., Mel-
bourne. ’Phone: 67-6792. Any
member of a recognised Stock
Exchange.
Underwriting Brokers: Ralph
W. King & Yuill (Members of the
Sydney Stock Exchange). Corrie
& Co. (Members of the Brisbane
Stock Exchange). Leonard G.
May & Son (Members of the Stock
Exchange of Melbourne). Trustee
for Stockholders: Bankers &
Traders’ Insurance Company Ltd.
Investigating Accountants for the
Underwrting Brokers: Smith John-
son & Co.
Registers: Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane. Adelaide, Canberra.
Applications for the debenture stock
accepted only on one of the forms
of application attached to a printed
copy of the prospectus.
S
PA
5.
2
6 orlO
years
9
%
PA
years.
PA
2 or 3
2
years
SHORT TERM RATES
8*
P.A.
12 months'
NOTICE
7%
P.A.
6 months'
NOTICE
6
1 3 months'
2 ' NOTICE
6*
P.A.
1 month's
NOTICE
REGISTRAR:
BANK OF N.S.W.
NOMINEES
PTY. LTD.
Clip and Post Coupon
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED,
Ground Floor, Cambridge House, 249 George St., Sydney.
Please send me without obligation a copy of the prospectus with
application forms.
name
ADDRESS B. 26/6/61
inclined towards shareholders,
rather, an awareness by
panagement of potential take-
over dangers. How much more
of the ample inner kitty may
be distributed without preju-
bice to the co.’s solid financial
structure is hard to say. But,
in any case, the sharemarket
appears to have rubbed most
lot the gilt off short - term
prospects by pricing the 20s.
ords. at 935. 6d. to return a
mere 2.1 p.c. from the steady
90 P-C- dividend.
Share capital was increased
by £1,000,000 in 1951 (follow-
ing a one-for-fwo issue) and
by £1,000,000 in 1955 (a one-
for-three par issue), these two
issues, plus the recent bonus
distributions, lifting aggregate
equity to £6,000,000, its present
register. Since the previous
cash issue, in 1938, the book
value of assets has grown by
well over £12,000,000, after
excluding revaluations. At
£6,000,000, share capital
weighs up £5,588,728 short of
disclosed reserves, and
£4,832,496 smaller than the
present figures set against out-
side shareholdings.
Changes in trading and
operating conditions since the
1939-45 war have, naturally
enough, influenced the direc-
tion of recent developments.
Island trading and the more
than 40 coconut plantations
have provided rich returns as
have some of the co.’s invest-
ments, but the shipping trade,
an essential link in island con-
nections, has proved a much
less profitable proposition than
it was in earlier years. At the
same time import and ex-
change restrictions have hin-
dered expansion of agency
dealings, while direct buying
by large retailers, or groups of
retailers, has affected whole-
sale merchandising and led to
the introduction of self-service
warehouses.
As a result, trading expan-
sion has been more marked in
the subsidiaries, with the
parent co. tending to develop
more as an investment and
holding co. than as a ship-
owner and merchant. The
sale to G. J. Coles, in 1956,
of the subsidiary chain-retailer,
Pennys Ltd (for 3,600,000 ss.
ords. in Coles and £1,025,000
in cash) conformed to this
general pattern.
In these circumstances, the
reluctance to publish consoli-
dated accounts or to separate
trading profits from invest-
ment income, limits, severely,
the value of the annual finan-
cial statements. The failure to
reveal the tax provision
doesn’t help either.
Gross profit and income
from all sources for the year
ended March 31 last, was dis-
closed at £3,044,930 (up
£92,096). Salaries, wages,
general working expenses, bad
debts and undisclosed tax pro-
vision were £202,780 higher at
£1,809,634. Another £82,071
was set aside for depreciation
(down £95,108) and £l5OO paid
out in directors’ fees.
Transfers (£145,000 higher
this year) to replacement re-
serves (£125,000 “tonnage re-
placement provision” and
£250,000 “property replace-
ment provision”) were de-
ducted before arriving at
£964,225 net profit for the year
(up £26,924).
There were major move-
ments in reserves. Miscel-
laneous reserves (down
£285,811) gained surpluses
(undisclosed) from sale of
investments and sale of free-
hold properties ; were reduced
by transfer to general reserve
(£389,531) from contingencies
provisions no longer required,
and withdrawal (£187,500)
from the special div. reserve
“for normal divs. which would
have been paid by the Papua-
New Guinea subsidiary cos in
the ordinary course.” The
special div. reserve was created
in 1960 with moneys received
and paid out from accumu-
lated profits carried forward in
the balance - sheets of the
Papua-New Guinea subsidiary
cos. It now stands at £229,171.
Insurance fund increased by
£18,036.
Re-
Profit. r— Dividends— N serves.
M’ch, £ £ £
’57..563,105 10p.c.-375,000 ) ~ or .
To staff fund, £27,082 j G304,63i
To replacement res.,
£500,000 .. .. 7,854,631
Surplus insurance fund,
£10,104 . .. 7,864,735
Profit sale assets, etc.,
£435,705 .. .. 8,300,440
’58..608,167 1 0p.e.=400,000 ) c
To staff fund, £28,045 j M»0>562
Revaluation investments,
£1,212,979 .. .. 9,693,541
Reserves capitalised (1 for
4), £1,000,000 .. 8,693,541
Surplus insurance fund,
£23,886 .. .. 8,717,427
Less disbursement of staff-
fund, and sundry adjust-
ments, net, £43,140.. 8,674,287
To replacement res.,
£500,000 .. .. 9,174,287
’59..864,311 10p.c.=500,000 j ™ , 0 „
To staff fund, £30,405 j 9,jU8,1J3
To replacement res.,
£230,000 .. .. 9,738,193
Surplus insurance fund,
£21,028 . . . . 9,759,221
Increase miscellaneous
res., £725,557 ..10,484,778
Assets revaluation,
£919,999 .. .. 11,404,777
Reserves capitalised,
£1,000,000 . ..10,404,777
’60..937,301 10p.c.=550,000 j Q)n
To staff fund, £30,729 j 10 >' (,1 ’ 34J
To replacement res.,
£375,000 . . . . 11,136,349
Surplus, insurance fund,
£18,036 .. ..11,154,385
From previous contin-
gencies, £389,531 . . 11,543,916
Decrease miscellaneous
res., £285,811 . . 11,258,105
’61..964,225 10p.c.=600,000 i , H 8 7 .-, 8
To staff fund, £33,602 ) 11,0S8 ’' °
Net profit, as stated, repre-
sents an earning rate of 16.1
p.c. on paid capital. This com-
pares with 17 p.c. in the pre-
ceding term and 17.2 p.c., 15.2
p.c., 15.1 p.c. and 15.4 p.c.
back to 1956. The div. rate
hasn’t dropped below 10 p.c.
since 1919, last term’s payout,
£600,000, being the ninth
successive distribution on this
scale. Staff funds received
£33,602 and reserves benefited
by £330,623. Total reserves
were disclosed at £11,588,728:
1960. 1961.
Capital .. £6,000,000 £6,000,000
Reserves . . 10,761,349 11,588,728
Creditors, etc 4,193,797 4,314,572
Final dividends 300,000 300,000
£21,255,146 £22,203,300
Properties and
shipping . 1,472,372 1,507,300
Shares other
cos.* . . 11,181,347 10,832,493
Shares subsids. 3,429,020 3,860,417
Stocks, etc. . . 2,175,968 2,439,285
Debtors . . 2,444,200 2,896,168
Cash .. . . 552,239 667,684
£21,255,146 £22,203,300
* Includes an unstated amount of
Govt, bonds.
Replacement reserves now
total £2,705,000. The co. ex-
pects to replace at least one
vessel during the next 18
months and there is a growing
need to renovate and/or re-
place several large properties.
Properties and shipping were
shown at £1,507,300 (up
£34,928). Book value of scrip
held in other cos. was lower


Invest in
The Longest Established National Hire
Purchase Company
in which the Bank of N.S.W.
has a 40% shareholding
REGISTERED
NOTES
INTEREST RATES
%
PER
ANNUM
Application for Registered Notes can be accepted
on the printed form included in the pros-
■H pectus obtainable from the Bankers to the issue,
Bank of New South Wales (all Branches),
any A.G.C. Branch, and your Stockbroker.
PAID-UP CAPITAL: £6,875,000
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
142 Phillip Street, Sydney • BW 2673
Branches and offices throughout Australia
ASK THE 'WALES' FOR DETAILS
THE
ORION INSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT AVIATION
N.S.W. BRANCH: 19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
TELEPHONES * BU 4387 L. F. THORPE, Manager
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write
to the Manager, who will quote you a price for the
original.
at £10,832,496 (down £348,851)
—due to the maturity of some
Commonwealth Treasury
Bonds and the repayment of
loans under secured mortgages.
The co.’s valuation of its hold-
ings on the sharemarket re-
mains very conservative,
despite recent revaluations (the
bonus issues).
There seems to be scope for
further distribution of bonus
scrip if the board decides to
continue a less conservative
line towards shareholders.
Burns, Philp is obviously in
good shape with merchandis-
ing trading on the up.
Net tangible asset backing
works out at a visible 58s. Bd.
for each 20s. ord. on the
parent figures alone.
COMPANY NOTES
1.C.1. Bonus
Tmperial Chemical Indus-
tries of Australia and
New Zealand Ltd will make a
bonus issue to shareholders
registered June 23 next —three
20s. ords for every seven then
held.
The issue, which marks the
co’s first bonus distribution
since ord. shares were issued
to the public in 1950, will lift
paid capital, including £1
million of pref. capital, £7.7
million to £25.7 million. It
will involve capitalisation of
share premium reserves (£1.7
million at close of accounts,
September 30 last) plus portion
of assets revaluation reserves
(£6.7 million at September 30).
Directors state that the rate
of ord. div., presently 10 p.c.,
will be reduced in proportion
following the issue. This would
indicate a pro rata post bonus
rate of 7 p.c.
1.C.1. has recently purchased
Commonwealth Fertilisers and
Chemicals Ltd. ; vendors, Cum-
ing Smith and Co. Ltd, Mount
Lyell Mining and Railway Co.
Ltd, and Wischer and Co. Pty,
to receive 1,000,000 20s. ords.
in 1.C.1., 840,993 new 20s. ords.
in 1.C.1. and £852,547 in cash
in final settlement —part of the
consideration, the new 20s.
ords., to be increased in propor-
tion to the bonus issue.
Commonwealth Fertiliser will
become a wholly owned sub-
sidiary of 1.C.1. when the
acquisition becomes effective,
July 1, 1961. Through a sub-
sidiary, Nobel (A’asia) Pty,
1.C.1. already had a sharehold-
ing interest in Commonwealth
Fertilisers.
And now 1.C.1. has just re-
leased details of a proposed £6
million ammonia-methanol
project to be set up at Botany,
N.S.W. —the plant, expected
to commence operations in
1963, will have a rated capacity
of 63,000 tons a year of end
products.
It seems that, with the fertili-
ser deal, and this, the latest
announcement, 1.C.1. might be
changing pace, attempting to
sidestep the intensified overseas
and local competition at present
menacing its earnings structure,
especially that of its plastics
materials division directors
anticipate that profits, in the
current year, will end up “con-
siderably lower” than in 1959
and 1960 —and that, from now
on, an increased energy will be
applied to the potentially lucra-
tive fertiliser field.
If this be the case, it is
reasonable, then, to assume
that 1.C.1. is already con-
templating the possibility of
further capital issues—to fin-
ance this additional develop-
ment. And it is reasonable to
assume that these issues, if any,
will be at a premium. The
bonus issue fits into the scheme
of things in that costs of financ-
ing finance become relatively
cheaper. The pattern is, broadly
speaking, that adopted by the
B.H.P. in later years.
1.C.1. 20s. ords. were trading
around 70s 6d. before the bonus
announcement. They are now
fetching 775. 9d. with the ex
bonus price a theoretical
545. 5d to yield 2.6 p.c. from
the postulated 7 p.c. div.
Australian Chemical Hold-
ings Ltd
Australian Chemical Hold-
ings Ltd and Hasemer
Crane and Engineering Ltd
have jointly announced that
Hasemer is taking over Star
Machinery Pty, a wholly-
owned subsidiary of Australian
Chemical Holdings.
Purchase consideration will
be satisfied by the issue of
182,572 Hasemer stock-units at
par value of ss. each.
The operations of Star
Machinery Pty are closely
allied to those of Hasemer
Crane and Engineering Ltd
and will be transferred entirely
to that company’s modern fac-
tory premises at Mascot
(N.S.W.).
“By mutual agreement be-
tween the two companies and
as a result of the acquisition
of the above shareholding,
Australian Chemical Holdings
Ltd has been invited to be
represented on the Board of
Hasemer Crane and Engineer-
ing Ltd.”
Australian Chemical Hold-
ings Limited is currently carry-
ing out a programme of
reorganisation and expansion
within its engineering division.
The main engineering sub-


Missing Friends
IN THE SUPREME COl'liT OF
SOI ill Al STUAUA
Estate JULIA MAY FRENZ late of 1
Beaci instield Street Fullarton in the
State of South Australia Spinster
deceased.- NOTICE IS HEREBY
GIVEN that all perse ire claiming to be
next-of-kin (if the ahovenamed deceased
and to be beneficially entitled in the
dislrihution of her estate and all
persons claiming to he the issw or
legal personal representatives of any
person who has since died and who
is claimed to have been a -next-of-kin
of tin- said deceased are required before
the expiration of two calendar .months
tiom the date of publication of this
notice to send by prepaid post to
Elder's Trustee and Executor Compuin
Limited of 37-3!) Currie Street Adelaide
in the said State particulars in writing
of ain claim which they may have
to .the said estate, otherwise they will
he excluded from the distribution
of the said estate. GEORGE 11.
WALTERS Master of the Supreme
Court of South Australia.
NOTE: JULIA MAY FRENZ died inte-
state a spinster without issue at Adelaide
South Australia on the 9th March 1950.
The intestate was born at Paddington
New South Wales on the Ist May 1881.
She was a daughter of Henry Frederick
Frenz. and Octavia Ann Frenze nee
Meek). The parents lived together in
various Country Districts of New South
Wales and in Yictoria. So far as is
presently known, the nearest next ot
kin at the time of the intestate’s death
were cousins being- the children of
her I nch- -lolin Thomas Meek and of
her Aunt Murv Ann Elizabeth Dalit-
more. ROTHES LESLIE HENRY
MEEK (otherwise Harry MeKain Meek)
the intestate’s Uncle, prior to the
year 1901, left New Zealand to settle
in the United States of America. He is
believed to have died before the inte-
state. If he did survive the intestate
then this Uncle or his executors admini-
strators or descendants may be entitled
to a share in her estate.
Missing Persons
Will Mrs 1. A I'll A JATS’K JAMUS-
CAKKIXUTON ( fomicrly I. A l U A ,1 AN K
HOI’PIM!; or any person who can
give particulars of her whereabouts
communicate with Murray Cudmor*
Worth Isaacliscn of 35 Grenfell
Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
Position Vacant
ALL SAINTS’ COLLEGE
BATHURST, N.S.W.
A Headmasters' Conference School con-
ducted by the Church of England
requires for:—
THIRD TERM 19(51. Master to teach
EITHER General Science (including
specifically Agriculture' and/or Bio-
logy) to dnd Year or Intermediate
Standard OR Agriculture and/or Bio-
logy to Heaving Honours Standard.
FIRST TERM 1962. Master to teach
English, Modern History and/or Modern
Languages (French or German) to
Leaving Honours standards.
For details please apply at once to
the Headmaster.
ridiafy, Frank G. Spurway
(Holdings) Pty Ltd, will occupy
[he factory property to be
vacated by Star Machinery Pty
which is opposite its own
premises in Maddox Street,
Alexandria (N.S.W.), and
intends to install a large new
plating plant and equipment
for new manufactures on that
site.
OIL AND MINING
jVapet
FI/Tst Australian Petro-
* ’ leu.vi Pty report repair of
the drilling mast damaged three
weeks ago. The Eneabba No.
I well was spudded on June 15.
Work, based out from Fitz-
roy Crossing, has been com-
menced on a geological survey
by helicopter of about 10,000
square miles of remote country
south-east of Christmas Creek
homestead in the Canning
River basin.
Associated Continental
Petroleum N.L.
4 new co.. Associated Con-
tinental Petroleum N.L..
has_ been registered in Mel-
bourne with a nominal capital
of £5 million in ss. shares.
The co. will acquire a 50 p.c.
interest in Papuan Apinaipi
Petroleum Co. Ltd, thereby
participating in the associated
activity of Associated Aus-
tralian Oilfields N.L., Asso-
ciated Freney Oilfields N.L. and
Papuan Apinaipi, operating irs
conjunction with Interstate Oil
Ltd and H. C. Sleigh Ltd.
The co. plans issue of 10
million ss. shares payable 6d
on application. The issue, par-
tially underwritten by Sydney.
Melbourne and Brisbane
brokers (54 million shares), will
be open for public subscription
but a major proportion has
been reserved for prior applica-
tion by share and option
holders of Papuan Apinaipi.
Papuan Apinaipi share and
option books will close June 30.
Positions Vacant
MONASH UNIVERSITY (Victoria)
NEW ACADEMIC
POSITIONS
Monash University, which began
teaching in March. 1961. with 350
students in the Faculties of Arts,
Economics and Politics, Science,
Engineering, and Medicine, invites
applications for appointment to the
following newly-established aca-
demic positions:—-
CHAIR of POLITICS
The Chair of Politics will be held
within the Faculty of Economics
and Politics. It will be the respon-
sibility of the Professor of Politics
to develop courses for pass and
honours students in the Faculties of
Arts, and Economics and Politics.
Politics 1 is at present a compul-
sory subject for first-year students
in the Faculty ol Economics and
Politics. This course was taught
in 1961 under the supervision of a
senior lecturer.
SENIOR LECTURESHIP
OR LECTURESHIP IN
ADMINISTRATION
Applications are invited for a
Senior Lectureship or Lectureship in
Administration in the Faculty ol
Economics and Politics. The teach-
ing of administration is being
developed to meet the requirements
of students in both business and
public administration. Applicants
should possess at least an honours
degree or its equivalent. It is
desirable that applicants have some
formal training in economics as
well as in one of the fields of
administration.
SALARY SCALES:
Professors: Minimum of £A4,000
per annum.
Senior Lecturers : £A2,480-2,950.
Lecturers: £A 1,660-2,360.
Full information on application
procedure, conditions of appoint-
ment. superannuation, travel and
removal allowances, study leave and
housing is available from the Regis-
trar of the University, P.O. Box 92,
Clayton, Victoria, Australia.
Closing dene: Applications close
with the Registrar of the University
on 31st July, 1961.
F. H. JOHNSON,
Registrar.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 648
Across
I — How's slumberwear close to neckwear? (8)
s—Garments sling off at the middle of the steamer. (6)
10—Cross, is the domicile tenanted with something for
13-down. (7. 6)
ll Flukingly lucky tavern in the middle is metalifer-
ous. (5)
12—Bacchanalian hymn in the midst
of which I am associated with
your woolgrower. (9.)
14—Sun villa occupied by a com*
poser. (8)
16—Lies within this sea-girt region. (4)
18—Expression from perhaps a New-
foundland or Labrador vessel. (4)
20 —She's pure enough for the even-
ing star which sank? (8)
23—What’s left of the disorderly red
marine? (9)
25—Backing donkey of a ditch. (5)
27 — Abandoned privilege went with
drill instruction. (4, 5,4)
28 — Concealing punishment. (6)
29 Uncharitable talk is admitted by
me. a resident of 16-across. (8)
Down
1 — No brother of Adam has a
brown exponent of insulting
irreverence. (4-7)
2 Such fauna have money to
leave. (7)
3 Vehicle. (8)
4 He carelessly scolded a baseball
team with spines like a porcu-
pine. (9)
6 Parent rested with a South Asian
peninsula. (6)
7 -A girl who’s been slighted may
be taken in hand by an angry
pirate. (7)
8— Pops up with a boobyish
fellow. (3)
9 Let out because time’s up. (4)
13—It makes'one feeder turn oil the
pitch with moie nip. (11)
15 —As father has upset sugar with
delicacy. (9)
17 —in favor of the suitable gain. (6)
19 —The behind was in front —but the
surface is disturbed. (7)
21 — Turned us to pay out and put
oft. (7)
22 Squabble in tea. (6)
24—Swarthy Australian novelist. (4)
26 —A smash without mother’*
timber. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 647


ST'S : BEEN:
A GOOD YEAR
FOR M.L.C.
POLICYHOLDERS
The 14th Annual Report of the M.L.G. makes pleasant reading indeed for its
1,700,000 policyholders. For the fifth year in succession bonus rates have been
increased in fact, for all classes of policy the compound rates of bonus now
declared are the highest in the history of the company.
The reasons for this good news are many, but
they reflect the prosperity of a vigorous
company in an expanding economy. Increased
investment earnings, new streamlined
management methods, and a rapid growth of
new business over many years have all
combined to produce a year of record profits.
Altogether, the M.L.C. wrote over
£100,000,000 of new business during the year
with an annual premium income of over
£3,700,000. Total sums assured and bonuses
in force now exceed £700,000,000, and
£10,000,000 paid in claims to policyholders
during 1960. As the M.L.C.
goes from strength to strength,
so its policies become more and more
valuable with the passing of the years. If
you would like to share in this prosperity,
please phone and arrangements will be
made for an M.L.C. representative to calk
THE MUTUAL LIFE AND CITIZENS’ ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED (incorporated in n.s.w.)
AND FOR FIRE AND GENERAL INSURANCE
THE M.L.C. FIRE AND GENERAL INSURANCE
COMPANY PTY. LIMITED
MLC4742-36
