

When The Credit Runs Out
MOTELS
<9
\lf
6
///:
3
2
CD <b <© ® ® <bS<b|
'7
uu
note!
o
□
o
oo
o
o
Q)
o
o
o
c
Q
0
G
o
oo
O.
OP.
o
Q
o
o
o
o
Q
r
□
wi
m
e/
The Bulletin
Registered in Australia for trans-
mission by post as a newspaper.
September 23, 1961
\<


H 5 *
/ ✓
. »
ok-
v MP
*
Pi
slf - 1 *■»
v
|S>* I
<%
IK
m&
>...
*sss;
s***
“WILL THE TRAIN STOP
JUST FOR YOU?”
%
co
cs
*
re
n;
£OU TW^
In a world so largely actuated by a profit motive, this is a fair question. The
answer is, yes—the train will stop to pick up its passengers.
The running of many country and suburban passenger train services is, from a
business standpoint, highly unprofitable.
And this despite the fact that the New South Wales Government Railways annually
transports some 253 million passengers by its country and suburban services, a
mammoth task demanding the greatest proportion of its transport effort.
But then, service to the people is the prime function of the Railways as true
today as it was over 100 years ago.
The Railways has continued to introduce new trains until today its passenger
services are the equal of any in the world. In over a century, only the ideal of
service to the people has remained unchanged.
NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT


TEARING OFF A STRIP
By Lovell Jones
PACIFISTS
OF THE WORLD.' _ ,
. UNITE//
YOU HAVE NOTHING
to LOSE!"""
BUT YOUR
SMOKERS COUGH .
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; Phone: 27 5971.
Vol. 82
No. 4258
The Right to Sit Down
ON grounds of expediency one might perhaps criticise the im-
prisonment of Earl Russell. A week in gaol isn’t going to make
any difference to him. He still lived like a lord it added an
emotional fillip to the evening of his life; and to a generation that has
been brought up to see civil liberties purely in terms of protest against
one’s own government, he became a Sunday newspaper martyr.
But if hundreds of his supporters are going to go on breaking
the laws, what else can the British Government do? The usual
liberal advice on these occasions is that one should do nothing. Just
let them sit down in Parliament Square or tramp all over a Polaris
base or whatever it is they want to do; they will soon get tired of it
if we don’t pay any attention to them. This treatment of protesters
as children who are being naughty just to bring attention to them-
selves is a great deal more naive than the view that gaoling people
who break the law may stop some of them from breaking it. The
kind of circus approach to democratic debate that Lord Russell’s fol-
lowers have adopted thrives on success; if they get away with one
successful sit down they will try another, and so on until finally
the police have to intervene anyway.
There is an irresponsible and selfish blackmail about the use
of these methods. By sitting down in a public thoroughfare in Lon-
don, Lord Russell or his supporters bravely attempt to establish
the right to sit down in a public thoroughfare; yet if they are
punished for this they proclaim an infringement of Civil Liberties.
But it is not their arguments that are being suppressed but their
right to sit down in a public thoroughfare. Their conduct appears
even more shabby when one realises that they are not trying to es-
tablish this as a technique of protest for the community at large,
but merely as one they care to use as important intellectuals.
would certainly not allow it to Sir Oswald Mosley or the
A Notting Hill race rioters (and quite properly), nor even to a
striking union or a deputation of disgruntled housewives (again
quite properly) but it must be allowed to them because in a secular
world, men of intellect who take up causes have become God
Almighty. If we send p deputation over to England to lie in front of
Lord Russell’s motor car or sit for a fortnight on his door-step, he
would almost certainly call the police.
It is an essential feature of British democratic life that the ex-
pression of political opinion should be completely free not only of
State censorship but of intimidatory methods by interested parties. A
Civil Disobedience Campaign despite its aura of non-violence
has a kind of violence and a type of intimidation. It is certainly a
poor method of argument. The British courts defended an essential
democratic tradition when they gaoled the Notting Hill race rioters;
they are also defending it when they gaoled Lord Russell end his
supporters however intellectually fashionable (or even
they may be.


This Australia
LAW
A Novel
About the Monkey People
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
A lan Reid gave the background to a
current breach of contract case in
The Bulletin on January 11. He had
rewritten, he said, Machiavelli’s “Prince”
as a novel and called it “The Bandar-
log”—from Kipling’s “Jungle Book,” the
Bandar-log being the Monkey People
who alone of all the animals in the jungle
observe no law whatsoever. His novel, in
other words, is about politicians. Angus
and Robertson’s were at first enthusiastic
about publishing it, and he was expecting
it to appear in the bookshops any day
when suddenly someone sidled up to him
in Parliament House, Canberra, and said :
“It’s not coming out. No one in Aus-
tralia will ever publish it. No one who
makes a few quid out of the Common-
wealth Literary Fund.” Sure enough,
Reid said, a few days later Angus and
Robertson wrote to him saying they had
changed their mind and would not pub-
lish it.
The next step was when Reid found a
new publisher, Mr J. P. Atkins, who
specialises in paperbacks but wanted to
break into hardbacks. He is managing
director of Cleveland Publishing Co. Pty
Ltd, which represented New Haven Press
in dealing with Reid’s novel. Mr Atkins
is also president of the D.L.P., but
although the underlying spirit of Reid’s
novel is alien to his own outlook, he was
interested in the novel as a commercial
proposition. All went well again for a
while.
It was being printed by Halstead’s, a
subsidiary of Angus and Robertson. At
first Halstead’s insisted on a few changes
which were easily made. But in the end
they refused to deliver the novel or hand
over the type on the ground that the book
was libellous. Atkins claimed that this
meant he lost last year’s Christmas trade
and sued Halstead’s for breach of con-
tract. Halstead’s defence was to deny
any contract and to claim that if there
was one it was void because the manu-
script was libellous.
The case came up in the Sydney Dis-
trict Court last week before Judge
Perrignc i and all week Dr Colin
Roderick of Angus and Robertson was
in the box being cross-examined by New
ALAN REID
From Kipling
Haven’s counsel, Mr T. Hughes. To the
casual visitor it seemed at times as if
Dr Roderick was being subjected to an
extremely stiff Leaving Certificate
examination in textual criticism. Dr
Roderick alleged he had identified some
of the characters in the novel as real
people. He claimed he identified Dr
H. V. Evatt as the character Seborjar
(from Cesare Borgia) in such lines as:
“Nobody is ever quite ure what he is
talking about. He has no platform
manner. His voice is harsh’’ or “Take a
look at his record since the blow-up . . .
in seven years he has led the party to
electoral disaster after electoral disaster”
or “political bombshell . . . Seborjar
accepts new post.”
Dr Roderick also claimed he saw Mr
B. A. Santamaria in the character
Domenico, who tries to control the party;
Mr A. Calwell in the character Fortune
(who among other things Fortune said,
“Sooner or later Seborjar will knock
over Domenico. That will leave me free
to move in against Seborjar") ; and Dr
John Burton in Kerstey (who has a
“Svengali-like” influence on Seborjar). In
addition to these basic four Dr Roderick
alleged the character of Gilly Hoskin
was modelled on Mr E. J. Ward, Hoskin
being an ex-boxer, “a vigorous, compact
man" with thick black hair brushed
straight back from his forehead, who
wants the party leadership: that the
character Deakin may be Mr J. S. “Jock”
Garden, who was formerly a Minister of
the Church of Christ and was nicknamed
“Deacon”; and that the character Chris
Tion may be Mr Tom Dougherty.
The burden of the exhaustive cross-
examination has been to show that be-
tween the fictional characters and their
alleged models there are dissimilarities,
and that Dr Roderick has seized on a few
superficial similarities and ignored the dis-
similarities. The similarities, Counsel
argues, would be due to the fact that the
novel deals with political types of which
there are inevitably a limited number and
which appear in any political novel at
all. The implication, he alleges, is that
if Reid's novel is libellous, political
novels can never be published. At the
time of going to press the hearing is
unfinished.
PEACE MOVEMENT
Punches at the Peace Rally
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
el bourne chuckled last week at
reports of punches being thrown at
a peace rally held in the Assembly Hall,
Collin; Street. The rally was called by
the ill-fated Australian and New Zealand
Peace Congress to hear reports from its
joint secretaries, Mr Sam Goldbloom and
Rev. Norman Anderson on their recent
overseas trips. The attendance of 450
was surprisingly good and was mainly
due to liberal plugging in the two previous
issues of the Communist “Guardian,”
plus work by the C.P. branches in bring-
ing the crowd along. It was a predomi-
nantly elderly gathering with bald pates,
grey hair and knitting needles as its
symbols.
The audience was fairly quiet while the
Rev. Anderson described his visit to Japan
to attend the religionists’ conference on
peace (R.C.P.) in Kyoto and the seventh
world conference against A and H-bombs.
He referred to “trying times” for the
peace movement, no doubt as a result
of the Soviet’s hypocrisy over nuclear
tests. Even more daring was his open
reference to the split in the Japanese
peace movement, which he characterised
as being between “political” and “humani-
tarian” approaches. These terms can be
equated to the original pro-Communist
peace movement and the recent break-
away group which wants bomb tests
stopped, irrespective of what the U.S.S.R.
wants to do. Although obviously feeiing
some sympathy for the “humanitarians,”
Mr Anderson thought that on balance the
‘ political” movement was the one to back
because it was ‘‘more practical.”
Mr Goldbloom did not have such an
easy passage. He made no reference to
the question of the hour—the Soviet re-
sumption of bomb tests—but instead
delivered a tirade against the West Ger-
man Government, Nato, and the Mayor
of Berlin, Herr Willi Brandt. Mr Gold-
bloom said all “democratic movements”
in West Germany should be supported,
while the East German regime should be
given a century in which to re-educate


its people. Former A.L.P. candidate for
Federal Parliament, Mr Goldbloom did
not think much of free elections as a
solution to the German problem: “After
all, Hitler came to power through free
elections.”
This was too much for a group of
university students at the meeting. Cries
of “Ban the bomb,” once one of Mr
Gold bloom’s own catch-cries, punctuated
his speech. Another interjector reminded
him of the Nazi-Soviet Pact’s contribu-
tion to World War Two, while another
indignantly pointed out that Willi Brandt
was a Socialist. By this stage counter-
irxterjectors had joined in and a small
skirmish developed at the rear of the
hall. The meeting was hurriedly closed
without any questions from the floor and
without the usual ritual of voting on a
prepared resolution. The organisers were
obviously ill-at-ease right from the start
—after all, how were they to know that
subsequent to the arrangement of the
meeting the Soviets would resume atomic
tests?
But while Mr Goldbloom of the A.L.P.
was giving an impeccable exposition of
the current Communist line on peace, a
Melbourne Communist was showing how
to get off the line with a stroke of the
pen. The press next day reported a peace
petition hurriedly organised by a young
Kew' housewife, Mrs Julie Dahlitz, who
is an A.L.P. member, which condemned
the Soviet resumption of tests. During a
hectic weekend Mrs Dahlitz obtained the
signatures of the Anglican Archbishop,
Dr Woods, the Methodist leader, Dr A.
H. Wood, and several university figures.
The petition was then sent to two Am-
bassadors of the Soviet Union. United
States, and France, the U.K. High Com-
missioner and the Prime Minister, Mr
Menzies.
The petition said, in part; “We deplore
the Soviet Government’s action in resum-
ing tests as being in sad contrast with its
initiative in abandoning tests in 1958. We
cannot accept as valid the claim made in
Soviet News, published by the Soviet
Embassy in London, August 31, 1961,
that ‘the policy of the leading Nato
powers and of the aggressive Nato bloc
as a whole leaves the Soviet union no
other choice.’ ” The petition went on to
say that no evidence had been published
to indicate that Nato policies were respon-
sible for the Soviet resumption. “The
Soviet decision came as a shock to most
people and, for our part, we consider
the action morally reprehensible. In a
nuclear war there can be no winner.”
Mrs Dahlitz’s petition received con-
siderable publicity, both because of its
obvious sincerity and reasoned tone and
because of the prominent figures who
signed it. Few, however, noticed that
along with the signatures of the professors
and church leaders was that of Mr Lloyd
Churchward, Melbourne University’s
best-known Communist At the univer-
sity it is a widely-welcomed anomaly.
UNIONS
The "Fitzgibbon for
Secretary" Movement
“GUS” ALFORD
Stood down
From MUGGA
r T"'HE committee of Melbourne water-
side workers which is campaigning
to elect Mr C. Fitzgibbon (A.L.P.) as
General Secretary of their union had a
victory last week. At a stopwork meet-
ing of more than 3000 wharfies a
member of the Fitzgibbon committee
moved a resolution criticising the hybrid
Communist-A.L.P. “unity-ticket” officials
running the union’s Melbourne branch,
and it was overwhelmingly carried. (Now
that Mr “Gus” Alford has stood down
the fight for the late Jim Healy’s job is
between A.L.P. men and a Communist.)
The criticism related to an issue of the
official news-sheet of the Melbourne
W.W.F. branch distributed daring the
Victorian State elections. The sheet
urged W.W.F. members living in
Williamstown to vote for Bill Smith, the
Communist candidate. Although the
W.W.F. is affiliated to the Labor party,
the A.L.P. candidate for Williamstown
didn’t get a mention. This episode might
have passed unnoticed but for the fact
that it was thrown up at the recent
A.L.P. Federal executive meeting in
Canberra.
As a result, the Victorian executive
of the A.L.P. promised to inquire into
the matter. For a time rumors flew
around that the executive might dis-
affiliate the W.W.F., but nobody who
knew the calibre of the Victorian A.L.P.
leaders took this seriously. Last Friday
the sceptics proved correct, for the A.L.P.
executive decided to take no action. It
accepted an assurance from the W.W.F.
executive that it was not responsible for
this issue of its “Official Branch News”
as the publication is called.
The rank-and-file of the W.W.F. took
a different view and disassociated itself
from the publication with a motion which
was virtually a censure of the union’s
Melbourne executive. Before the motion
was passed, Mr Rourke defended the
use of the journal to publicise Bill Smith.
Mr Rourke, who is a full-time vigilance
officer for the union, is one of the A.L.P.
members who has declared that he is
supporting the Communist, Mr T.
Nelson, in the coming election. He is
also well known for his dictum that to
be anti-Communist is to be anti-working
class. For many years Mr Rourke has
been on the unity-ticket and things have
been all his way. It must have been a
shoe'.; when the Fitzgibbon “third
force” had the numbers against him.
The Communist party, too, is now
looking tor a fall guy to cover up for
the “tactical blunder” of having the
union's official news-sheet (signed by the
Communist secretary of the union,
Charlie Young) tell union members to
support an opposition candidate to Labor
in a Parliamentary election (the one crime
that is unforgivable in “working-class”
philosophy). The fall guy to get the
Communist party out of its embarrassing
mess is Geoffrey Swayne, a Communist
temporary vigilance officer in the union,
who, it is now alleged, wrote the notori-
ous document and who had the “dis-
interested” Charlie Young sign the
bulletin after vigorous protests from
A.L.P. vigilance officers, Ted McCormick
and “Curly” Rourke. A.L.P. officers
at the Trades Hall were lobbied by
McCormick and Rourke with this story.
The “Wharfie,” another roneoed publi-
cation for the Melbourne waterfront, was
not at all enthusiastically received
recently because it was forced to forget,
momentarily, the union election. This
was because it is primarily the Com-
munist party’s propaganda organ—and
not a union journal. An immediate
apologia for the Soviet atomic blasts had
to overshadow even the importance of
supporting Mr Nelson.
However, the Communist party can
well afford to stop publicising Mr Nelson
because the “Maritime Worker,” official
organ of the union, is doing the job for
them —it is almost wholly run by the
Communist party and most of its space
is filled with Communist propaganda. A
good part of the current issue is devoted
to eulogising Mr Nelson. The editor
of the “Martime Worker" is Rupert
Lockwood, a Communist party member,
and the paper is published at the Com-
munist party “Newsletter” printery at a
cost of some £BOOO per year to the water-
sideworkers. The profit, of course, goes
to the Communist party’s printery.
Incidentally, whilst the Communists
churn out the theory that union leader-
ship should be representative of all sec-
tions of the rank-and-file, they hold for
themselves five of the top administrative
positions in the W.W.F. Federal office.
They also have a full-time party organ-
iser on the waterfront and that is now
being classed by Melbourne wharfies as
“outside interference in their ifcternal
affairs.”


MIGRANTS
Storchi and Company
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
DR F. STORCHI
Shopping around
Bonegilla riots and our unemploy-
ment situation did not bring Dr
Ferdinand Storchi, of the Italian Govern-
ment, to Australia for the first time, but
they certainly gave his visit more point.
Dr Storchi, Under-Secretary of State for
Emigration, visited Germany, Belgium,
France and Canada earlier this year to
see how Italian migrants are making out,
and he will be off to South America also
shortly. He is special emissary of the
fatherland to the millions of Italians over-
seas in this centenary year of Italian
unity. But his trip has an economic
motive as well as a symbolic value.
Because of the increased prosperity of
Italy and Europe generally the pattern
of migration has changed considerably
and for the first time Italy can shop
around for the best conditions for its
migrants.
Last year 400,000 Italians emigrated to
West Germany, Switzerland, France and
Belgium as against the 80,000 who left
for Canada (21,000), Australia (16,000),
United States (13,000), Argentina (12,000).
Brazil, Venezuela and other South
American countries made up the balance.
To many of the 250,000 Italians who
have migrated to Australia since the end
of the war Storchi's visit meant a chance
for authoritative straight-talking with the
Australian authorities, especially as the
migration agreement between Australia
and Italy is to be revised early next
year.
On. his arrival at the end of August
Storchi was bombarded by questions
about Italian migration, but he protested
that he had come in search of the answers
himself. This- typical day's activity gives
an idea of how he carried out his
research : Visit to the Port Kembla Steel
Works, man-to-man talks with the Italian
employees, lunch with the Italian workers
at the “E.P.T.” electrical works, an un-
announced visit to the Unanderra Hostel,
a rush trip to Warragong to consign the
key of a house built under Italo-
Austral an agreement to a migrant, visit
to the Scalabrini fathers’ church at
Unanderra, back to the Italian centre at
Wollongong, by car to Seven Hills,
Sydney, to meet the workers of the
Italian electrical company Transfield
which has just staged a £lOOO art show
in Sydney, dinner there with the workers.
In Canberra he met Australian Govern-
ment officials rather than migrants, but
his dijys were no less packed. The
pressure was maintained in Melbourne:
a second meeting with Mr Downer,
a long talk with Mr Bolte, a visit
to the Lord Mayor and to Arch-
bishop Mannix did not even fill his first
day. In the afternoon he opened the
new Italian cultural institute in South
Yarra and in the evening attended a
concert in the Palais, St Kilda, which
must have given him pause—proceeds
were for unemployed Italians.
The lesson was brought home even
more dramatically in Adelaide: his visit
to the hundreds of Italians employed in
the Holden works was cancelled because
the factory closed the morning of his
arrival. Doubtless that provided a topic
of conversation when he lunched at
Downer’s home the next day.
Whatever was discussed and decided
was carefully veiled in the official com-
muniques, but Storchi suggested that
migration be reduced if the economy did
not pick up and insisted that it would be
to the advantage of both countries to
emphasise family migration.
Other questions which he assured the
Italian community would be discussed
were the recognition of trade and profes-
sional qualifications, the possibility of
double nationality, the right of older
migrants to return to live in Italy with-
out their pensions being stopped, and the
right to Italian war damages compensa-
tion even when Italians become
naturalised.
POLITICS
Country Party and Liberals Split
FROM JOHN HIGGINS IN BRISBANE
HThe Country party in Queensland has
always despised and distrusted the
Liberal party, which, up until 1957 at
any rate, they regarded as representing
some of the worst types of business
interests in Queensland. Since 1957, new
blood Liberal backbenchers have heartily
reciprocated this animosity. The
smouldering animosity burst into open
flame last week, and could well result
in the premature cremation of the
Nicklin-Morris coalition. The spark was
provided by the refusal of the Country
party to accept at joint party meetings
the Liberal Member (and Mayor) for
Redcliffe, Aid. Jim Houghton. Mr
Houghton was chased out of a bitter
Country party plebiscite for the seat for
the 1960 elections. He . accused Country
party Speaker Dave Nicholson, who
holds the adjoining electorate, of “gang-
ing up” on him in plebiscite manoeuvring,
and standing as an independent he won
a five-cornefed contest comfortably. He
rubbed salt into the Country party wound
earlier this year when he announced that
he had joined the Liberal party, thereby
robbing the Country party of a safe non-
Labo 1 - seat,, and narrowing the gap (at
the time) between the parties to 26 (C.P.)
to 21 (Lib.). The Country party’s
numerical superiority gives it the
Premiership and six of the 11 Cabinet
seats. By accepting Mr Houghton as a
Liberal party member the C.P. would be
unable to contest the seat in the next
elections. Behind the scenes it has
demanded a quid pro quo—forfeiture of
a Liberal electorate.
While both machines were working
to solve the problem, the Q.L.P.’s Ted
Walsh, former A.L.P. Treasurer, precipi-
tated an open clash with an accusation
in the State Parliament that Liberal
Leader and Deputy Premier Ken Morris
had disclosed to the weekend press the
contents of a two-year-old letter written
by Country party Premier Frank Nicklin
to Prime Minister Menzies on the thorny
question of Commonwealth aid (or lack
of aid) to the Mt Isa rail project. The
letter thanked Mr Menzies for his assist-
ance, and that of Treasurer Holt, and
gratefully accepted the offer. Last month,
both the Premier and his Liberal
Treasurer, Tom Hiley, were openly
critical of the agreement following news
of Federal aid to a Western Australian
project on much more generous terms.
Both headed off to Canberra to beard
Mr Menzies, leaving behind them threats
in high places that this time they would
not only go down like lions but come
back like them. They returned like
lambs, accepting the Mt Isa agreement as
originally formulated, with a consola-
tion prize in the form of a five-year road-
aids agreement which they were going
to get in any case. Mr Nicklin and
Mr Hiley received the biggest tongue-
lashing of their executive careers from
Mr Menzies, who capped the argument
off by producing Mr Nicklin’s letter and
telling Mr Hiley bluntly that a World
Bank loan to the Mt Isa project was
refused because of Mr Hiley’s poor hand-
ling of the case.
Suggestions of “treachery” to his
leader by Mr Morris on the eve of the
third joint party meeting probably did the
trick —even if the charges were unwar-
ranted. Mr Houghton was once again
refused admission, and that night Liberal
party president Mr Regan caused a major
sensation with the accusation that the


Country party had “stood over” the
Liberal machine with a threat to end
the coalition if they persisted with Mr
Houghton’s case. Mr Houghton mean-
while resigned from the Parliamentary
Liberal party —but (apparently by acci-
dent) retained his membership of the
Liberal Party proper. State executive of
the Liberal party has subsequently
endorsed Mr Regan’s statement, and
declared that they will insist on Mr
Houghton’s acceptance by the C.P.
Country party machine executives and
Premier Frank Nicklin have said noth-
ing, but they are considering another
piece of gratuitous advice offered them by
Mr Walsh—“turfing” the Liberals out of
Cabinet if they press the issue, and invit-
ing them to cross the floor of the House
and bring down the Government, if they
dare.
Within the next fortnight a drastic
decision will be taken one way or the
other a Country party backdown, a
complete Liberal backdown, or an open
split Failure to reach a compromise
will certainly see the date of next elec-
tion advanced considerably—and there
are few people who would be prepared
to bet against the A.L.P. in this case.
TRADE
Fine Food
FROM EUGENE BAJKOWSKI IN SYDNEY
A ustralia is staging a glamorous dis-
play of some of its best-known
export foods at the annual Fine Foods
Fair in Cologne, West Germany. The
fair opened today and will last until
October 1.
Australian foodstuffs will be displayed
in a timber-frame stand with an upper
mezzanine and three food-tasting bars.
The stand is the work of Mr Gordon
Andrews, a Sydney industrial designer.
It covers 1638 square feet of floor space
and is open on three sides. Tropical
plants and artistic photographic enlarge-
ments showing Australian agriculture,
industry and tourist resorts are used for
decoration.
The ground floor has two sections. A
stone-paved area features fibreglass
topped drums, containing fruit juices,
canned fruit, dried and candied fruit,
cocoa and coffee beans, minerals and
trochus and pearl shell. Varieties of
grain-ears are displayed in wall panels.
Separated by four partitions decorated
by impressionist drawings representing
seafoods, meats, fruit and wine is the
second, more open area. “Overseas
Trading” says that this features wall
panels of Australian orchids and wild
flowers, displays of kangaroo-fur jackets
and hides, dairy produce, eggs, canned
fruits, fish and meats as well as illumi-
nated exhibits of bottled wines, candied
fruits, grains, jams and honey. The
upper mezzanine has shelf displays of
wines, canned fruits and juices, cheese
and other Australian export foods.
"AND IF THE COPS COME WE TELL 'EM WE'RE
SOME OF EARL RUSSELL'S MOB"


LOCAL POLITICS
The End of the Councillors
E. REECE
Reform
FROM GOODWIN EWENCE IN LAUNCESTON
Time is running out for many of las-
mania’s little municipalities and their
councillors. Some of the doomed munici-
palities are extensive, but like Waratah
(571,000 acres, 450 inhabitants) they have
become anachronisms in a small State
in an age of swift communications. Others
have much larger populations—but most
of their ratepayers live within the sprawl
of Hobart or Launceston.
They have in the past been sheltered
by the Legislative Council, in which
municipal interests are strong, but Mr W.
G. Wedd's election as an Independent
M.H.A. for Denison changed the situa-
tion. Mr Wedd, holding the balance of
power for Premier E. Reece, conse-
quently secured Government backing for
his ideas of municipal reform, and the
monumental Local Government Bill is
now r half-way through the Assembly.
The fight has gone out of councillors.
They have lost heart watching rising costs
race away from static rate revenues.
Road-building machines are their answer,
but these are beyond impoverished muni-
cipalities. Rural populations generally
are declining. And a seat on the council
does not have its old-time prestige, or
tangible value in getting a road built into
one’s property.
The cities of Hobart and Launceston
are constituted under an Act of 1852. The
47 municipalities, under an Act of 1858,
w'ere formed at various times from con-
glomerations of town boards and elec-
toral, police, road and health districts.
Some, marginal at inception, have since
gone backward, defying the devotion and
enthusiasm of those who have earnestly
discussed their affairs each month for 60
years or more.
Areas bordering progressive munici-
palities have experienced heaviest pres-
sure. Hobart absorbed Glebe Town,
Mt Stuart and Wellington in 1907,
Queenborough in 1914, and New Town
in 1920, increasing its area to 17,760
acres, but Launceston, less fortunate with
incorporations, today encompasses only
6710 acres. Rather more than half of
Hobart's population and rather less than
half of Launceston's is in “rural” munici-
palities.
Forty councils were represented at a
meeting at Campbell Town to discuss the
bill. St Leonards (218,000 acres, 800
country residents, 12,000 residents in
Launceston suburbs), like Beaconsfield
and Lilydale under hot pressure from
expanding Launceston, was feeling the
breeze. Its Warden (Cr S. G. Chappie)
moved “emphatic disagreement” with the
bill. “The fact is that Mr Wedd believes
that amalgamation will cure the ills of
local government —and Mr Wedd has the
Government by the short hairs,” Cr
Chappie declared.
Conference finally accepted the bill
subject to amendments: that municipali-
ties should provide two of the five mem-
bers of the proposed Municipal Commis-
sion, that the Town and Country Plan-
ning Commissioner (naturally suspect of
bias toward the cities) should not be an
ex-officio member, and that ratepayers
of an affected area should vote on any
boundary change.
a short cut through the bush and won
by almost 60 lengths. Other jockeys and
the entire crowd protested, so the first
two riders decided to fight it out. Police
broke it up, the “winner” was disqualified,
and the ‘‘second” man got the race.
Everyone, including jockeys, adjourned
to the bar. Roars and shouts could be
heard a mile away as the races were re-
run. While awaiting the evening's enter-
tainment—a barbecue and dance —Tom
Humphries was asked to bring out the
famous “Daly Waters Guzzlers’ Cup” (a
much decorated chamber pot which holds
12 bottles of beer) and once again run
the competition which was such a big
feature of Daly Waters race meetings a
few years ago Tom. however, had mis-
laid the cup The competitors went ahead
with their contest just the same.
Suddenly the cry w'ent up: “Where's
Ginger?” Within minutes the search was
on for Ginger McClean, who was to cut
up steaks for the barbecue. Finally they
found him in Tom Humphries's dining-
room, having a feed of chicken. With a
big smile he told the hungry race-goers:
“Hullo there. Be over soon.” All left,
W'ith one burly cattleman muttering:
“And him eating chook too.”
After the barbecue and presentation of
prizes the orchestra—two mouth organs
and a button accordion —struck up for
the dance Mrs Aeneas Gunn, The San-
guine Scot, the Fizzer and others of that
“We of the Never-Never” band would
have felt right at home.
RACE DAY
In "We of the Never Never" Country
FROM A CORRESPONDENT
'T'he little town of Daly Waters, just off
A the Territory’s bitumen artery of the
Stuart Highway, was jumping. It was
race day. And hairy-chested, wide-hatted
characters from all over Mrs Aeneas
Gunn’s “We of the Never-Never” country
had come in.
The normal population of maybe 20
had swelled to 100 and more. Hangovers
were fierce, tempers touchy and thirsts
scorching. Daybreak saw Dick Scobie
come in with the first mob of horses.
Soon afterwards contract musterer Colin
Bremer arrived in a sour mood. He had
planned co bring some horses, but his
stallion had jumped the fence and all
the mares went bush with him. At 10
a.m. the horses were auctioned and the
crowd got down to the serious business
of racing.
Tom Humphries’s bar was the popular
spot of course Famous windbags com-
peted happily in corners. Liquor went
down at an amazing rate. One chap,
after remarking that the weather was “too
bloody hot,” downed his cold beer,
stepped backwards, and fell into a drum
of water, amid the cheers of the crowd.
The last race caused a stir among
punters when a jockey decided to take
RELIGION
Bible - reading
FROM AN ADELAIDE CORRESPONDENT
'T'o commemorate the 350th anniversary
of the King James version of the
Bible the Seventh Day Adventists are
conducting a nation-wide survey of Bible
reading. The first State to complete its
survey is South Australia.
Five thousand people were taken, and
only 15 per cent, made it a habit to read
the Bible daily. Two-thirds read it
occasionally'. Adelaide people have
Bibles in 87 p.c. of homes compared with
96 p.c. in the country. There were thous-
ands of Bibles lying around in Christian
homes unopened and unused except,
possibly on special occasions as weddings
and funerals. Five people in 100 had
read the Bible through. In the country
areas twice as many people read the
Bible as in the metropolitan area. Of
those who read the Bible together 22\
p.c. read as a family group.
The 250 young people who volunteered
to make the survey were surprised with
some of the answers. One ancient house-
holder said he had read the Bible through
seven times, and one house had 12
separate versions. On the other hand,
one householder said, “Why should I
read the Bible? What do you think I
pay the Minister for?”


IRON ORE
300 Million Tons ?
The best bob s-Worth I ever got. Not only has he talked the Workers into accepting a Wage cut — he's got
Amalgamated Plastics agreeing to a takeover.”
FROM KEITH WILLEY IN DARWIN
Tr looked like the Territory’s prospectors
had done it again. Mr Louis Har-
manis and Mr Ken Waters announced
finding a massive iron ore deposit near
Mt Wells, only 140 miles from Darwin.
It was no secret the Territory had iron.
B.H.P, had been active up this way for
years. There were known deposits at
Adelaide River, on the Roper, and way
over near Borroloola. But previous finds
had been “sat on,” and the word was it
might be 50 years before they were
worked All that changed on December
2 when the Minister for National De-
velopment, Senator Spooner, announced
lifting of .the embargo on sale of iron
ore to Japan.
Finding of the Mt. Wells deposit
differed from the normal casual Territory
tradition (Jack White stumbled on Rum
Jungle w'hile chasing a wallaby. Jack
Noble gave away Noble’s Nob —now one
of Australia’s richest gold mines—to an
acquaintance who was down on his luck.)
Following Senator Spooner's announce-
ment Territory iron ore suddenly had a
market, and Harmanis and Waters went
out deliberately after a big deposit.
They had heard a story of iron in the
Burrundie area, near Mt Wells, and early
in July Harmanis touched the outskirts
of the giant deposit. It was dry, rugged
country. Barren hills, straggling scrub,
hard to penetrate. Yarning at night, old-
timer Andy Knight of Burrundie told
Harmanis and Waters of “native ochre
pits’’ in the area. They knew iron ore
gave off a red coloring similar to ochre
and went after the pits. They found them
—at the foot of a giant hill of iron ore,
now known as Ochre Hill. Ochre Hill is
about 400 feet high and a mile long and
looks to be solid iron ore. The mineralised
area is triangular, covering 18 square
miles.
Waters claims: “Visual indications
appear to be around 100 million tons or
more.” Some Government experts have
gone as high as 300 million tons. When
Mr Suzuki, the top geologist of a Japanese
iron ore mission, inspected the area
recently, he said it was “a major world
find, with tendencies towards Brazilian-
type ore —one of the world’s best.”
Preliminary assays show the ore to be
up to 68 per cent. Japanese experts are
at the site now, testing the extent of the
field. They represent Japanese steel mills
which, in all probability, will negotiate
to buy the ore, subject to final testing.
About 40 men are hard at work now, try-
ing to complete early establishment of the
find before the wet season sets in. Creek
crossings must be bridged, the narrow
access roads widened, buildings put up.
A spur line will have to be laid the 11
miles from the main Darwin railway.
And another to East Arm, a few miles
from Darwin, where the iron would be
loaded through a giant conveyor-belt
system into Japan-bound ships. Nego-
tiations will start soon about the future
of East Arm Leprosarium, which stands
in the way of this expansion.
Partners in the iron venture which
could mean a new town —perhaps city —
in the north, are Waters, schoolteacher
turned real estate agent turned mining
man ; Harmanis, veteran (arrived 1917)
Territorian, builder, prospector, current
president of Darwin's Greek community ;
and Frank Duval. Duval, of Duval Hold-
ings Pty Ltd, has been associated with
many mining shows and is closely linked
with Japanese interests. They have formed
Northern Iron Mining Corporation Ltd,
to work the new find. Harmanis predicts
they will get the first ore shipment away
within 18 months and that after three


years one million tons annually will be
going out through Darwin.
Whether or not final tests by the
Japanese are successful —and confidence
just now is high in this part of the world
—a mining boom is building up anyway
around Mt Wells. Scores of tin gougers
are in the area now, only waiting for the
Government battery at Mt Wells —slowly
a-bui!dmg—to be completed. Once it is,
they will be able to cash in on high tin
prices currently offering overseas. Rich,
unworked tin deposits pockmark the Pine
Creek-Mt Wells area. These have lain
idle fo • decades, due to lack of crushing
facilities. Finally the Government set
about building a battery. Progress is
frustratingly slow, but it should be ready
by about Christmas. By then thousands
of tons of tin ore will be stockpiled, ready
for processing and export to world
markets. The Prospectors' Association's
president. Mr Paddy Carroll, reckons
‘’hundreds” of men will be making up-
wards of £5O a week each, mining tin
on the field.
All this —plus the looming iron ore
development—will have a tremendous
impact on the Top End's ailing, market-
starved agriculture and cattle industries.
It could lead to the greatest civilian popu-
lation increase since just after the war —
maybe the greatest since the boom mining
days late last century.
MARRIAGE GUIDANCE
Divorce in the
Marriage Council?
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
'T'HE walk-out of immediate past-
president Mr Phillip Solomons from
the annual meeting of the National
Marriage Guidance Council in Perth last
week highlighted a long-standing divorce
in a body devoted to the understanding of
other people’s domestic problems. The
West Australian Marriage Guidance
Council had been embroiled in an
internal struggle for more than 12 months
prior to Mr Solomons’ walk-out, and
at one stage its honorary chairman, its
secretary, its senior counsellor and its
education officer had resigned and V 30
counsellors had gone on strike.
This situation obviously called for
counselling techniques, and the National
SIR GARFIELD
BARWICK
Unexpected problem
Council set up a committee of inquiry to
save the State organisation from a broken
marriage. It found there had been trouble
in the W.A. council for about three
years, caused by personality clashes and
weak leadership. Members had simply
resigned when they could not get their
own way. Corruption and malpractice
had been alleged during the dispute and
reiterated during the inquiry, but the
committee found no evidence to support
these charges. The committee also found
that when they stopped work last June
counsellors had shown inadequate under-
standing of their position in the marriage
guidance movement and of their responsi-
bilities to the public. It got down to
cases when it suggested that on at least
two occasions counsellors had been
accredited without adequate preparation.
Members connected with the dispute
sought the privilege of privacy when they
were pressed to tell of the events behind
the dispute last week. Those who were
out of office claimed they were not com-
petent to comment on something with
which they were no longer connected,
and those still in office simply would not
comment.
The single exception was the present
State president L. Rappeport, who
claimed the committee’s report had not
been as critical of the State body as it
appeared to be and that it had com-
mended the action of the new executive
which he headed. He said the executive
was moving towards the implementation
of the committee's main recornmendation
on salaried officers, but was hampered
by lack of finance. Its total income was
£7500, made up of grants from the State
and Commonwealth.
He also said the State council was now
working in complete harmony and Lad
interviewed 189 people who sought guid-
ance last month, and pointed out that
more people sought marriage guidance
on a per capita basis in W.A. than in
any other State.
In the meantime, the National Council
members returned home still undecided
what to do about Mr Solomons’ plea
that he should be voted out of the
honorary and automatic office of immedi-
ate past-president of the council. He is
a foundation member of the State coun-
cil and resigned as State president in June,
1960. This is a problem Sir Garfield Bar-
wick never expected when he increased
financial aid to marriage councillors.


PLAIN ENGLISH
"The Bulletin" and Communism
A Bulletin correspondent, Mr K. J.
Walker, of Alphington, Victoria,
has accused us of attempting
to ram down his and other people's
throats —often without adequate evidence
—a “two camps" view of everything. He
calls for political discussion on “the
highest possible objective any-
thing less is “worse than useless” and
“breeds pockets of uninformed political
stupidity.” (See Letters, page 22).
He says that we, and all other Western
countries, are free of any immediate risk
of a Communist takeover ; given this,
“morbid anti-Communism can only drive
those now neutral into the arms ol the
Left.” He concludes that our best defence
against Communism is democracy, “above
all democracy of the spirit.” Smears and
loaded language are not democratic ;
objective truth is. He concludes: “We
cannot preserve democracy by abrogating
the liberty of anyone whatsoever to do
anything whatsoever that we ourselves
claim as our right.”
This letter touches on the vital issue
of our times. In a lesser field it raises
matters of editorial policy that we should
like to explain, and then have debated.
So we shall use this letter as a text for
what we hope will be the beginning of
a correspondents’ discussion in The
Bulletin.
To take Mr Walker’s last point first, it
should be made quite clear that The
Bulletin does not for the moment wish
to see taken from Communists any rights
it claims for itself —although it would do
so in a national emergency. But it
opposes the kind of rights that Com-
munists-claim. Let us take two examples
from recent Bulletin articles. We do
not claim the rights (that the Seamen’s
Union claims) to run our affairs in asso-
ciation with gunmen, standover men and
thieves; nor do we wish to intimidate
our opponents into silence by threats of
violence—and even of murder. Nor do
we claim the rights (that the E.T.U.
claims in England) to make a mockery
of democracy by a wholesale rigging of
ballots.
Considered as a purely internal prob-
lem —not that one can isolate Com-
munists as an internal problem—it is
only when Communists make an assault
on democracy and our free institutions
that we would seek to restrict their
“rights.” We want them to content
themselves with the rights we content
ourselves with. When they extend their
activities beyond these it is the Com-
munists who make an assault on
democracy.
How does one combat the intensely
anti-democratic activities of the Com-
munists? Surely one answer is: by
exposing them. And that is what The
Bulletin has been attempting to do. To
do anything less than that is a crime
against the democratic spirit. It is silence
on these issues that “breeds pockets of
uninformed political stupidity.” It is not
democratic to remain silent when one
sees the assassins of democracy at work ;
it is slothful —or cowardly One of the
most alarming features of Australian
newspapers, for example, is that with
the magnificent exception of the “Daily
Telegraph’s” Alan Reid, there is not one
political or industrial correspondent in
a major newspaper who regularly
informs his readers how Communists
operate in Australian unions ; and there
are those who misinform them. Is this
“democracy of the spirit”?
Tt is true that .in discussing these things,
■*- and in exposing them, it is necessary
to provide “adequate evidence.” One has
to get: the facts right. There are some
people, of course, who insist on a higher
standard of proof than would be neces-
sary to hang a murderer. And even
when they get it, they demand more.
They want something approaching
divine revelation. But to the ordinary
person who w r ants to make up his mind
there is this test: after their publication
have the facts been effectively challenged
—or have they, indeed, been challenged
at all?
As to “smears,” “loaded language,”
“the highest possible objective plane,”
and so on it should be made clear that to
make an allegation is not the same as
making a “smear.” If the word “smear”
is to mean anything at all it means not
even “untrue allegation,” but “deliber-
ately untrue allegation” or “irrelevant
(whether true or untrue) allegation.”
But to publish a damaging fact about a
person or institution that is relevant to
matters of public importance is not to
perpetrate a smear ; it is to perform a
public service.
iVTow to turn to the external dangers
' of Communism. No one in his right
mind would suggest that there is an
“immediate risk” that the internal Com-
munist parties of, say, Australia or the
United Kingdom are about to “take-
over” Australia or the United Kingdom
by democratic, or even revolutionary,
means. This is not to deny that Com-
munists have significance in both those
countries —especially in the trade unions
and through them the Labor parties.
But unaided by the collapse of a State
apparatus and/or by Communist
bayonets Communism has never taken
over anything bigger than Kerala.
This does not make the external
dangers of Communism any the less real.
Within the lifetime of many readers of
The Bulletin Communists have taken
over a large part of the world and they
are still extending their boundaries.
What is likely to happen in the next 25
years? Or even the next ten years?
Or even the next five years? Twenty-five
years ago it was 1936. What unbeliev-
able thing has not. happened since then?
in a century which has seen the “take-
over” of Russia (and the starvation or
assassination of tens of millions), the
“takeover” of Eastern Europe, the “take-
over” of China and now sees Russian
aggression continuing not only in Europe
but in Africa, the Middle East and South
America and also sees as a nearly imme-
diate possibility the collapse and “take-
over” of piece after piece of South-east
Asia . . . What does one do? Does one
not take a “two camps” view of the
world?
Of the world —yes. Of “everything”—
no. There are not Communists lurking
in everything. But the threat of world
Communism is so great in world affairs
that in our view most international ques-
tions cannot be considered without con-
sidering their relation to Communism.
If there is no relation —well and good ;
one thankfully, for once, forgets about
Communism. If there is a relation-
well, that is one of the factors in the
situation. If it is a factor of over-
whelming importance —as it is likely to
be —why not say so? So far as Aus-
tralia’s internal affairs are concerned it
is demonstrably ridiculous to suggest that
we —or anyone else —take a “two
camps view of everything.” A glance
through the contents of this issue would
show that.
Whether our anti-Communism “drives
neutrals into the arms of the Left”
is a matter of indifference to us. We
think this possibility is greatly exag-
gerated ; it may simply drive “neutrals”
away from reading The Bulletin.
Although not wishing to appear too pom-
pous about it, our concern is with what
we hold to be true. Are we supposed
to suppress it, to deny facts to thousands
of readers lest we make a couple of
dozen “revisionists” rejoin the Com-
munist party?
And is it “morbid anti-Communism”
to remember occasionally that the
“neutral” Alger Hiss was a spy for Soviet
Russia, and an important policy-maker
in the State Department? That the
Rosenbergs, and Fuchs, and Nunn May
gave strategic secrets of the utmost
importance to the Russians? That our
own lan Milner, formerly of the Political
Science Department of Melbourne Uni-
versity, then of the Australian External
Affairs Department, went over to the
Communists after being a Soviet agent
in our Government service?


MOTELS
When the Credit Runs Out
By EUGENE DORLING
LOOKING back now in the fac: of increased sophisti-
cation and improved standards of living, it is hard to
recall how primitive facilities were in the average
Australian hotel. In 1952 only about a third of the
bedrooms at the leading Sydney hotels had bathrooms.
Few. if any country hotels, had bedroom and bathroom
suites, and if they had had them the licensee would not have
been able to rent them. People would have said, “what’s the
bath for?” Since patching up country hotels was in most
cases not a profitable proposition, the only thing was to
rebuild, but there was little incentive for hotelkeepers with
a highly profitable bar trade to bother about this. For years
the typical country pub was exactly what most people
expected it to be. a public drinking place which bred a sturdy
race of bushwalkers and interstate hitch-hikers equipped
with a billy, a sleeping bag. soap, towel and toothbrush and
used to “roughing it.”
But as the nation became more affluent, more and more
cars appeared on the road and those who drove them were
willing and able to pay for comfortable overnight stops. The
idea of motels at first caught on slowly, but throughout
1957. 1958 and 1959 it spread rapidly. The ideas were
almost completely borrowed from America and were quite
new for the majority of people in Australia. This novelty
and freshness, all done up in cream, pink, blue, yellow, green
and red colors, gave the motel industry a jet-propulsion
start.
The economic key to the boom, and to the current crisis,
in the Australian motel business has been: cheap building
and high maintenance. The cheap building has meant that
while there was only one motel in Australia in 1954. there
will be over 500 by the end of this year, but the high main-
tenance costs have meant that 90 per cent, of the motels
now in business are already obsolescent and in three years’
time will be obsolete. If the credit squeeze continues it
could turn out that many of the motels now enlivening the
roadside with shots of red and green will gradually merge
again with the more familiar roadside shacks, unpainted
pubs and sprawling cafes. On the other hand, those cap-
able of weathering the squeeze, those with the resources
for high cost, low maintenance “prestige” motels will con-
tinue to prosper: they have introduced such higher standards
of service and convenience to travellers that there will always
be a strong demand for them. And all that the squeeze
will have done, as one motelier put it. is to get rid of the
spivs and wide boys who were attracted to the get-rich-
quick aspects of the business in the early days.
As with all new businesses, it look some time to get it
reasonably organised, particularly as far as management
and design were concerned. When the boom got going in
the late 1950 s some operators thought it enough to stick up
a colorful building, call it. say. Old Man River Motel, and
all would be well. In the first flush one man was appointed
manager of one of a chain in a country town on a salary
of £22 a week, and for months he wrote to head office
asking them to send someone to give him some instructions
on how they wanted things run. They sent no one. and he
finally resigned the job in disgust. They appointed a car-
penter to take his place. The head of another chain of
motels gave one manager an instruction not to open the
dining room “because it wasn’t profitable.” But the change
from low cost, high maintenance to high cost low mainten-
ance motels is now bringing with it properly trained staff
Early in the story, too. there was a vogue for American
names. Floridas. Arizonas. Travelanas and Caravillas were
popular, but now there is a trend to use local Australian
names, particularly in the Snowy Mountains district. Brand
names —some of which are international —still play an
important role, and motels operated by chain companies are
anxious to have their images firmly established for com-
petitive prestige purposes. So we get various combinations
of the words “motel.” “motor” and “hotel,” and “holiday
inns.”
Designs are now more settled and vary with the climate.
In Queensland the buildings are light, often with movable


partitions and sliding doors, patios and verandahs. In the
snow country there is an attempt to create the outward
appearance and indoor atmosphere of a ski lodge. There
are drying rooms, ski-rack rooms, huge log fires in addition
to central heating. Constructions are mostly of brick-
veneer, brick and fibro, cement, wood, canite and masonite.
There is no extravagance in interior decoration. The
emphasis is on neatness, simple, modern lines and efficient
service. Dining rooms are filled with cheap, neat. little
tables, covered with plastic tablecloths, the crockery and
cutlery being mass-produced.
A S in America, Australian motels started off without liquor
licences. The idea was to sell comfortable overnight
accommodation and meals. This lack of liquor licences has
proved an advantage. The atmosphere is quiet, “family-
like,” while anyone who needs a drink badly enough can
often walk or drive to the nearest pub, though some mutels,
particularly near holiday resorts, are now finding it useful
to obtain licences to serve liquor with meals.
Licensed “motor hotels” are now appearing in greater
numbers, mainly in big country centres and Canberra,
where there is strong competition from good hotels. Astor
Motels Ltd is now plugging the “hotel-motel right in the
town” line. They are constructing hotel-motels at Wagga,
Albury and Goulburn to add to their six-strong chain,
though next year when they move into Victoria, with motels
at St Kilda and Bairnsdale, they may not seek to get hotel
licences —the licensing laws there are just too defeating
The head of one chain of hotel-motels said that
although his firm had to comply with all the regulations of
the Liquor Act, it did not feel that their chances of getting
a licence were better or worse than for a publican. He said
the licensing authorities seem to feel that hotel-motels
were raising accommodation standards in country hotels,
but on the other hand non-travellers have a right to a
supply of bears.
“Hotels have such a poor name that it seems unlikely
it can ever be retrieved.” Mr B. J. McDonald, the Managing
Director of the Astor chain said recently, but it is still vital
for a motel to keep up its standards of service and accom-
modation. “Consequently, when people go to a hotel they
don’t expect anything. But at a motel they do, so if the
china is chipped or the bedspread shabby there is an immedi-
ate loss of confidence in that motel and in motels generally.”
He pointed out that when brand name motels are estab-
lished it will be worth while for the big operators to adver-
tise and establish their “brand” name because in a few
years the marginal motels would be offering only poor
quality service and accommodation. People window-shop
for motels and drive around a whole town looking at the
lot before deciding where to apply for accommodation
(unlike train travellers, who come out of the station and
make for the first hotel in sight). Prestige appearance is
essential.
It is probable that in N.S.W. at least there were now
sufficient motels to serve the needs of the present popula-
tion. One company reached this conclusion after a survey
of the entire State. To make the survey guests at motels
were divided into transients (those who were passing
through the town) and local resort (those who were spend-
ing a few days in the town for either personal or business
reasons). The survey showed that at times, such as school
holidays and Christmas, the motels could provide four
times as much accommodation as at present, but, of course,
that would be useless for the rest of the year. The local
resort figure is constant but limited.
The managing director of this company said that he
believed Australia would follow the American trend and
that chains of motels, often in the centre of the town and
not on the highway a few miles out, and generally with book-
ing facilities for the whole chain, would replace the low-
cost “Mum and Dad” unit. Although more motels are being
built closer to the town, or in the town, it is almost standard
practice to have the sleeping and the main block, where the
restaurant and lounges are, separate.
Because many motels are still distant from the towns
and because some provide only a bed and a breakfast tray,
the motel has not supplanted the hotel in the affection of
that simple soul, the commercial traveller. Many com-
mercial travellers still go from town to town, staying at
the hotels they have stayed at for years. The first reason is
that they know they won’t be turned away. The second is
perhaps because they know there will be someone to talk
to after dinner, that they won’t have to retire to a bedroom
to read the local paper.
Most motels have few single rooms and some have
none. (The hotel-motels do have single rooms, because
their accommodation arrangements are supervised by the
Licensing Court. They cannot turn away a single person
because they hope two people will come later in the evening
and engage that room at a higher price). Motels do not find
it economic to provide single rooms with bathrooms
attached. Rooms are generally double, and almost at any
time of the evening, when accommodation might be getting
difficult, you will be offered a “family” room. This may
have accommodation for four people. Some motels in small
country towns will have a couple of single rooms which are
permanently booked, say, by the local airline.
The price of the all-important site plays the dominant
role in motel economics. During the boom years site prices
were very high, but many have now come down to a
realistic level. Another consideration is the minimum occu-
pany rate. Although some companies claim that they can
work profitably on an annual average occupancy rate of
60-65 p.c.. the minimum safe figure is generally considered
to be about 70 p.c. Depreciation charges are heavy, as
most of the buildings are designed for a life span of four
to six years.
ttOW are the motels financed? Most of the capital has
been raised bv direct public share issues and borrow-
ings. though some has come from the hire purchase com-
panies. such as the giant Australian Guarantee Corpora-
tion and Latee Investments. These finance companies
either help develop existing motel chains or run their own
motels. Real estate companies like L. J Hooker are also
involved. There is a marked tendency to forming State-
wide and interstate chains
Carapark Holdings Ltd--allied with the powerful Aus-
tralian Guarantee Corporation through the subsidiary Cara-
park and General Finance Ltd —Motels of Australia Ltd,


For overnight stops, in between hops
your Highway Host is a
Members of the
Motel Federation
of Australia
RAVEInncE
When you are travelling with your family, you’ll
welcome the comfort, convenience and friendly
attention a TraveLodge offers. If you're wise
you’ll book ahead to avoid any chance of
disappointment.
For overnight stops or leisurely vacations, plan
your stay at a TraveLodge Motel. Double or family
suites are available with luxury features such as
air conditioning or heating, room service, dining
rooms, television and radio, private shower and
toilet, hot and cold water, wall-to-wall carpeting,
telephones, and a host of other comfort features.
n 7^3(j
u
SEND FOR FREE BOOKLET AND INFORMATION TO
MOTELS
OF DISTINCTION
TraveLodge BRISBANE,
355 Main Street,
Kangaroo Point. 91-5091.
TraveLodge BONDI,
59 O’Brien Street,
Bondi. 30-5221.
TraveLodge NOWRA,
Kinghorn Street,
Nowra. 2-0268.
TraveLodge GOULBURN,
Hume Highway,
Goulburn. 3080. N
TraveLodge CANBERRA.
Barton Highway,
Lyneham. 4-5353.
TraveLodge GUNDAGAI,
Cnr. Sheridan and West Streets,
Gundagai. 466.
Travel Lodge MELBOURNE,
539 Royal Parade,
Parkville. 38-8131.
Pan American MELBOURNE,
Canterbury Road,
St. Hilda. 94-0591.
Travel Lodge ARARAT,
Barkly Street,
Ararat, Victoria. 2-2255.
TraveLodge ADELAIDE,
223 South Terrace,
Adelaide. 8-6285.
MOTELS OF AUSTRALIA, P.O. BOX 49, BONDI, N.S.W
connected with the world-wide American Travelodge group,
and Astor Motels Ltd —pioneers in the licensed hotel-
motels business —are the leading Australian motel com-
panies. .
Carapark Holdings Ltd was formed in September, 1959,
to amalgamate the operations of Carapark Productions Ltd,
Carapark Motels Ltd and Carapark and General Finance
Ltd The motel subsidiary is now one of the largest opera-
tors in Australia, the investment in motels forming a sub-
stantial proportion of total group assets.
Carapark runs 26 “Caravilla” motels in N.S.W., Vic-
toria. Queensland and Tasmania. A target of 60-strong
motel chains was planned by next December, but the credit
squeeze has slowed down the expansion rate.
Motels of Australia, working its way up with an almost
missionary zeal, is probably the most “Americanised”
motel company in Australia and uses the internationally
known “Travelodge” brand name because cf its close con-
nection with the Travelodge Corporation of U.S.A. which
persistently and somewhat noisily claims to be the world's
largest motel network —a claim which it is hard to sub-
stantiate or disprove. Travelodge Corporation's most
important field of expansion in recent years has been
“franchise” motels. Recently Travelodge Corporation had
assisted Motels of Australia to acquire a substantial amount
of mortgage finance. In consideration, Motels of Australia
issued options to acquire 896.710 ss. ordinary shares at the
market price on the date of signing of the contract. The
options will give Travelodge Corporation a 25 p.c. capital
interest in the Australian group.
Astor Hotel Motels Ltd is a successful pioneer of
licensed “hotel-motels.” which provide accommodation and
have a liquor licence The company recently took over
Southern Advances, which netted £2 million in cash funds.
About that much will be spent on the current two-year
development programme which is scheduled to give the
chain 20 hotel-motels with 1200 to 1500 beds in-700 rooms.
The L. J. Hooker group’s network of motels continued
to expand and show good returns despite the slowing-down
effects of the credit squeeze. With the completion of new
motels at Taree and Scone in New South Wales, Hooker’s
Rex Motels chain is spread out strategically at stop-over
points on the main highways linking Brisbane, Sydney and
Melbourne. In addition to Taree —where L. J. Hooker now
operates the Motel Pacific and the new Rex Motel —the
company’s motel division is represented at Glen Innes, Coffs
Harbor, Goulburn, Gundagai and Albury in N.S.W.. and
at Canberra. However, work on the projected 40-suite Rex
Motel at Cooma, intended primarily for use by the tourist
trade, was stopped after the credit restrictions announced
last November.
Other well-known public companies engaged in the
motel business are Ophir Motels. Mascot Industries Ltd
(Travelana), Latec Investments, Stocks and Holdings and
lately even Tooheys. the great brewery concern.
Tooheys Ltd’s venture into the motel game is ' ery
interesting. The brewer acquired a 40 per cent, interest in
Travelana Holdings Ltd, recently taken over by Mascot
Industries Ltd. Tooheys and Mascot Industries will now
operate the Travelana motel chain as a joint venture, with
emphasis on the motel-hotel field. This seems to be an indi
cation that the brewery and hotel industries are more
interested in joining the motel movement than in competing
against it. “If you can’t lick them, join them!”
On the whole, motel companies have stood up well to
the credit restrictions. The high-cost, speculative minded
firms —some of them private companies or family shows
—that went broke have paved the way for the consolida-
tion of the industry.


THE COUNTRY PARTY IN QUEENSLAND
TOEING THE PARTY LINE
By JOHN HIGGINS
AN important political truth was propounded in Queens-
land on the night of April 28, 1957: “There is only one
decision, whether you like it or not, whether it is wise
or unwise, the course to take is to endorse the official
decision.”
The speaker was Mr Jack Duggan, who precipitated the
1957 Labor split when he refused to follow his Premier, Mr V.
Gair, and his remaining nine Cabinet colleagues in bucking a
directive from the Queensland Central Executive of the A.L.P.
to bring down legislation for three weeks’ annual leave in the
forthcoming session of Parliament.
Where the Duggan doctrine is denied the whole system
of party Government comes apart at the seams, and standards
of arrogance, hypocrisy and deceit are established on the
specious score of preserving Parliament’s right to refuse to be
dictated to by “outside interests.”
Four years of Country party-Liberal coalition Government
in Queensland provide the proof of this. Resolutions passed
at annual party conventions have been blandly ignored by
Cabinet; policy pledges and election promises have been
repudiated ; and the Central Council of the Country party has
actually had the humiliation of being told bluntly by a Country
party Cabinet Minister that he regards them as a “pressure
group,” and will not accept dictation (of policy promises) from
them!
Government by Cabinet, or at the very best by the political
wing, has replaced Government by rank-and-file membership ;
and in Queensland it has resulted in explosive pressures which
seem certain to doom the State’s first non-Labor Government
for a quarter of a century even before its second term of
office has ended.
The Government’s handling of land and transport
administration provides classic illustrations for those people
who believe, as I do, that politicians must be made toe the line
by their party machines in relation to expressed policy.
Let’s look at what has actually happened in relation to the
State’s land policy since the Nicklin-Morris coalition took office
in August, 1957.
On assuming office the Country party had nothing in the
way of a detailed land policy other than pious platitudes
relating to the need for security of tenure and the right of
land-holders to own their own land. In Queensland
the bulk of the farming and grazing lands is held on
lease, some of it on perpetual lease, but the majority
of it by a system of terminable leases. Failure to take into
account improvements by tenants to their leases either for
resumption or rental purposes has long been a sore point with
farmers, graziers and pastoral companies ; and more than any
other single factor is regarded as the main reason for the lack
of real pastoral development in Queensland. Mounting criti-
cism of the administration under the then C.P. Lands Minister
Mr Alf Muller resulted in 1958 in the appointment of Sir
William Payne, 0.8. E., president of the Land Court, to make
a full report on progressive land settlement in Queensland.
The report, among other things, criticised unfair, uneconomic
and ruinous closer settlement at the expense of existing Crown
tenants; laid down specified living areas for specified parts of
the State ; urged a stable and moderate system of rentals; and
criticised autocratic and unrealistic approaches to the problem
of land settlement by departmental officers.
If one is prepared to accept leaseholding as the basis of a
land settlement policy, which I am not, the Payne report was
monumental in its nature and concept. The real point here,
however, is that the 123-page report was accepted in its entirety
by the annual convention of the Country party in Bundaberg
in 1959 as official Country party land policy. A good deal of
it was incorporated in the subsequent 1959 Land Act brought
down by Mr Muller, who seemed quite prepared to accept
the situation. A “blue” over a taxation breach caused Mr
Muller’s forced resignation from the Cabinet immediately
after the 1960 elections. New Lands Minister was former
Speaker Alan Fletcher, a small but socially ambitious Downs
farmer.
Shortly afterwards Sir William Payne stepped down from
his Land Court Bench —not without a parting blast at unneces-
sary red tape and autocratic behavior both in the Lands Depart-
ment and the Valuer-General’s Department. There are many
who believe that this blast was directed at both Mr Fletcher
and his permanent Under-Secretary and Chief Commissioner
for Lands Mr E. C. J. Muir. Be that as it may, both the spirit
and the letter of the Payne Report have since received extremely
rough handling from Mr Fletcher and Mr Muir. Leases have
been resumed and subdivided on a basis which is in glaring
contradiction to the terms laid down in the Payne Report;
and Mr Fletcher has flatly refused to appoint the Judicial
Arbitrator envisaged by Sir William in his report and actually
incorporated in the 1949 Act (Part IV).
TTake the case of Neive Downs, in the Charleville district, as
-*■ one example. Neive Downs is 70 miles from the railhead,
and its best country has a carrying capacity of only one sheep
to three acres. According to the Payne Report (Part IX),
blocks within 40 miles of the railhead in this area should have
a carrying capacity of 6000 sheep in the best sections of the
district ... or, in other words, 18,000 acres. A much greater
living area would be required on Neive Downs under a Payne
interpretation.
Under the Fletcher-Muir administration (many graziers
refer to it as Muir-Fletcher), Neive Downs has been resumed
and subdivided into 15,000-acre and 17,000-acre blocks. When
the resumption of Neive Downs was discussed under the pre-
-1957 Labor Government areas of 18,000 acres were proposed.
This was objected to at the time by, of all people, the A.W.U.,
which said that these areas would be too small to allow tenants
to grant their employees reasonable living conditions! Yet in
flat defiance of this opinion, of the Payne Report, and Country
party policy, in came the Fletcher-Muir subdivision.
There are other more glaring instances, some of them
horrifying with their callous disregard of the established equity
and future rights of both little men and big ones alike, which
the writer hopes to deal with in subsequent articles on land
settlement in Queensland. By the time of the Cairns Country
party annual convention in May this year no less than 200
motions criticising the Government’s land administration policy
had been received by the C.P. Central Council. The agenda
committee fined this down to 19 items to be submitted for
debate. Of the 19 only four were actually debated. Of the
2\ hours allotted for debate, Mr Fletcher spoke for two hours
—a calculated filibuster in which he referred to his intention
to refuse to accept directives from “outside interests” (pre-


1
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS, £891,419.
TANGIBLE ASSETS, £3,184,264.
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
WITH RIGHT OF RECALL
ON 3 0 DAYS’ NOTICE
3 months . . . . 5V270 p.a.
6 months .is. 6% p.a.
9 months . i ; . 6V2% p.a.
12 months . ; ; . 7% p.a.
18 months . ; ; . V/l% p.a.
• FIXED DEPOSITS
2 years ..... 8% p.a.
3 years . ; ; ; . 8V2% p.a.
AND OVER
APPLICATIONS must be made
on the form enclosed with the
prospectus, which is obtainable
from
Members of the Stock Exchange
ANY BRANCH OF A.N.Z. BANK
The Registered Office of the Com-
pany, William & Crown Sts.,
Sydney. Telephone FA 0322.
Financing world-
famous products
distributed by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies.
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
in Queensland
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
in Queensland
LISTER
Engines
GROUP SALES
IN 1960
£14,757,281
'••••••MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send, me, without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 1/4/61, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
THERE'S MORE FOR
\
±-
ONLY
ALL THE%
FAMILY 111
Ererybodys
sumably his own party rank and file, machine executive and
his own platform).
The Cairns convention did appoint a special Lands
Liaison Committee to “review decisions on the basis of Coun-
try party policy”—in itself a vote of no-confidence in Mr
Fletcher’s administration. The committee consisted of Mr
Nicklin and three Cabinet Ministers from the political wing ;
and Messrs Lawrie (president), Parkinson and J, McCormack
from Central Council. So far they have achieved nothing, and
Payne Report and 1959 Land Act transgressions are continuing
almost weekly.
This is not surprising in view of the fact that on May
8, in the presence of the Premier, Mr Fletcher told a special
Central Council C.P. meeting called to discuss land policy that
he regarded them as a pressure group and that he would not
be dictated to by them!
There are plenty of members of the Central Council
today who are prepared to subscribe wholeheartedly to Mr
Duggan’s dictum on the necessity for party discipline to
enforce expressed policy on their Parliamentary representatives
... so much so that some of them are now openly discussing
a move to refuse Mr Fletcher endorsement at the next State
elections.
What other answer is there for a party which wishes to
retain its self respect with rank-and-file supporters, and with
supporters who are not actually members of the party?
On transport administration the same sorry story can be
told—resolutions passed at annual conventions and special
party meetings, platform pledges and policy-speech promises,
all blandly ignored, with the rank and file left wringing their
hands either in impotent anger, disgust or despair.
At the record Country party rank-and-file transport meet-
ing in Roma in July, Jimbour branch president Bob Sparkes
summed it up in the course of moving a resolution “directing”
the Government to take a certain line of action when he refused
to accept an amendment “recommending” instead of “direct-
ing.” He said: “I have attended almost every important
Country party meeting for 11 years, and lam sick and tired of
passing recommendations that never get anywhere. This time
we are telling you what to do.” (The Government has
blandly ignored all of the seven “directives” passed at
this meeting, which was called by the Premier himself.) What
is the moral of it all? It is that for party Government to
function honestly—and effectively—in a democracy its political
representatives must be compelled to implement, “whether it
is wise or unwise,” the policy expressed to the electorate at
large by their party machines.
It is practical politics to this extent: That way they can
at least expect to retain the support of their friends. If the
Nicklin-Morris Government collapses within the next two years
or at the end of it, it will be because its friends have left it,
rather than because its enemies have destroyed it.
“Have you one that's sort of non-committal ?”


SPAINS THREE PILLARS
The system of authority is sagging apart
By DANIEL MARTIN SMITH
< |-<he workers here are not badly off,” said the foreign
I diplomat, straightening the tiny crucifix on his desk.
JL “They have medical insurance ; when things are
normal they put in a lot of overtime ; and employers
must obtain official sanction before sacking them. Their
syndicates— sort of unions, you know —are represented in the
Government. And there is the Church ; a man who goes
regularly to Church can usually get help.” “C’est affreux,”
the French lady said. “Did you know that the average
Spaniard must work a whole day to be able to buy a kilo
of decent meat?” “Nothing annoys me more,” said the English
lady primly, “than journalists who write about Spanish poverty.
Everybody I know in Madrid runs an enormous Mercedes.”
Generalisations and cliches lie in wait for one in Spain
through every doorway, round every bend in the road.
Spaniards resort to them out of loyalty to ideals and slogans
they or their fathers fought for in the Civil War ; or because
they have lost the habit of categorical discussion, political or
economic; or simply for safety’s sake. Foreign residents
indulge in them to avoid giving offence ; or to hide private
embarrassments or complexes of their own ; or because they
are diplomats. Most of the generalisations cancel each other
out. “Spaniards nowadays,” one Embassy man said, “are very
chary of talking politics.” “It's very difficult,” said his colleague
across the hall, “to keep Spaniards off politics.” (Each in his
own way was right. The Spaniard who, in a restaurant or at
a formal gathering, will shrug off a politically loaded remark
or reply with a brief conformist comment, is apt when he
relaxes in private to startle one with the vehemence of his
opinions.) Opposition Catholics and monarchists in Madrid
favor Spanish membership of as many international organisa-
tions as possible: “Every time we join an international body
we open a door into Spain, we have to play host to observers
and study groups, and the regime is put on its best behavior.”
Opposition Catholic and monarchial groups in Valencia and
Barcelona asked me angrily: “What has Unesco done to help
us to get rid of the censorship?” To admit Franco in inter-
national organisations merely clothes him in respectability.
Opinion polling is, in consequence, hazardous. There is
even a shade of ambiguity—though only a shade —in the
answers one gathers to the basic question: Is the regime a
tyranny? That it is a dictatorship, everyone is agreed. But
might it more or less be a benevolent one? In its first few
years, General Franco’s rule was indeed a brutal tyranny, so
vindictive that it shocked those of his Falangist, Catholic and
monarchist supporters who had expected a gesture of national
reconciliation. Dionisio Ridruejo, then director of the Falangist
propaganda, now a left-of-centre critic of the regime, has said
of this period: “Morally, the conquered became the victors.”
The British and American Governments referred in their 1946
statement on Spain to the absolute “lack of liberty” and harsh
repression.
The regime still startles the observer with its acts of vin-
dictiveness. Last February, 72 syndicalists were charged
THE CAUDILLO
before a military tribunal with having attempted to organist
a clandestine trade union in 1947-48, when most of them were
already in prison on other political charges. In March, 20
persons were accused of having conspired in 1946 to re-establish
the Catalan Left-Republican Party. The wife of a Socialist,
now blind, who has been in Burgos prison for more than
20 years, had her jaw broken last year for accepting a remit-
tance from a relief organisation in Toulouse. Released Repub-
licans are harried by the police and petty officials; it is
dangerous for them to become involved in litigation or to
be seen in the vicinity of, say, a cafe brawl.
And yet it is still possible to agree with the American diplo-
mat in Madrid who assured me “the regime is undoubt-
edly authoritarian, but it is no longer totalitarian.” There is
something oddly untotalitarian in the regime’s present incon-
sistency in dealing with its adversaries. On the one hand
12 Catalans are beaten and tortured for singing Maragell’s
patriotic “Song of the Flag” in a public place ; on the other,
opposition intellectuals in Madrid distribute packets of well-
printed leaflets against the Government, and arrange their
rendezvous over the telephone with an apparent insouciance
that would be inconceivable in Moscow or, for that matter,
Cairo. Some 200 G ageing Republicans are still in prison,
working out sentences of up to 60 years ; but members of the
“new wave” of resistance to General Franco concede that for
political offences that would have been punished by 20 years’
imprisonment in 1950, and ten years in 1955 ; they now run
the risk of no more than two years in jail or simply five or
six days of beating and torture.
All opposition groups agree that unfavorable publicity in
the foreign press, the presence of foreign observers at the more
important trials, and inquiries like the one conducted by an
international committee of lawyers last winter, have played an
important part in persuading the Government —anxious to
raise its international status —to keep its backwoodsmen on
a shorter rein. But why the inconsistency? One explanation
widely advanced in Madrid is that influential officers and
officials are increasingly anxious to insure themselves with the
opposition groups they think most likely to be represented
in the regime which succeeds General Franco's. A hierarchy
of political offenders has thus come into being. Intellectuals
can get away with more than industrial workers, monarchists
are harassed less than Republicans, and Catholic liberals are
treated more leniently than non-Catholic liberals ; Catalanists
and Socialists come lower down the scale, while anarchists are
at the bottom. Similarly, the regime’s relative leniency in recent
months is linked by some observers with the tensions that are
building up in Government circles around the problem of the
succession.
The regime rests on three pillars: the Army, the Church
and that somewhat shadowy political prop, the Falange. Army
officers and n.c.os. are well paid and well cared for. Their
loyalty to General Franco has never been in doubt. But many


EY APPOINTMENT TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS
fOHN DEWAR ft SONS LTD . PERTH. SCOTLAND
DBVAII’S
is the Scotch
WORLD FAMED FOR EXCELLENCE
it never varies
g|igk
... f :
.^bUeia®
Fine Scotch j
p
v .__ 'Distillers
I'sii p E gsn*t
OOWfcKJNWEAf- 7^
The same delightful Whisky now in the
Internationally-known clear round bottle
with the convenient screw-on cap.
The proof is in the tasting
SIMPLY SAY:
Dewars
GUARANTEED WHOLLY DISTILLED,
BLENDED AND MATURED IN SCOTLAND
/mm
DW1478
responsible officers dislike the repressive role that has been
thrust upon them and the Government’s use of military
tribunals to try civilians charged with political offences. Revul-
sion for the role is known to have impelled officers serving on
military tribunals to impose minimum sentences in at least
three cases recently ; in one of them the sentence was more
than doubled by higher authority.
HThe Falange (now known as the National Movement for pre-
ference, its name having gone out of fashion) remains the
official, and only, party of the regime. It has long ceased to
have any ideological significance. Its dogmas—a rehash of
Italian Fascism—are still taught in schools, but their barren-
ness became embarrassingly plain in 1959 when, after having
applied them for 20 years, the Government was obliged to do
a smart about-face, seek American and Western European aid,
and swallow a great deal of unpalatable advice, in order to
stave off economic collapse. Middle-aged Falangists who
joined “the movement’’ in the "thirties complain, of course, that
General Franco has betrayed their ideal, has applied their
principles only half-heartedly and has made too many conces-
sions to foreign opinion and liberal capitalism. More recent
recruits admit, in private, that they joined the Falange
primarily for the advantages it offers in obtaining employ-
ment, promotion and housing. Once the Falange had a certain
awesome prestige ; now it is generally despised. Its decline is
reflected in the sales of the Falangist organ “Arriba.” Despite
a sensationalist “popular” style, “Arriba” is now selling only
30,000 copies a day, whereas the Church daily, “Ya,” sells
140;000, the .nominally monarchist “ABC” 180.000 and the
newsless sports-and-gossip paper, “Marca,” about 300,000.
/Cardinal Pla y Deniel has a delicate task. He has sup-
ported the regime since the end of the Civil War. He
has approved a catechism which denounces democracy and the
freedom of the press in crudely Fascist terms. He speaks with
pride of the State’s “model” concordat with the Vatican, and
he still refers to the revolt which brought General Franco to
power, in the accepted phraseology, as the “National Crusade.”
For a whole generation his Church has enjoyed the sort of
opportunity the propagators of all creeds presumably dream
of; it has monopolished religious instruction, dominated
education and guided the consciences of the nation’s ruler and
all his officials. Publication of a religious or philosophical
nature are seen by its censors before the Government censor-
ship sees them ; its inspectors have access to all schools. No
non-Catholic may teach or become a journalist, a nurse, a
civil servant, a policeman or an officer or n.c.o. in the
armed forces. Ecclesiastical recommendation is necessary for
responsible employment in all State-controlled industries and
many branches of private business. It is difficult for non-
Catholics even to get married ; Protestant religious marriages
are illegal, and an application for a civil marriage is turned
down unless the couple can prove that neither bride nor bride-
groom received a Catholic baptism ; this is often difficult.
Protestant services- may be held only in buildings which bear
no outward indication of their function, and may be inter-
rupted by the police, or gangs of youths, or banned without
notice by the local bishop ; such bans were recently—and may
still be in force —in Saragossa, Salamanca and three other
towns well known by this correspondent. Protestant prayer-
books have to be smuggled in from abroad a hymn-book in
use among Spanish Protestants was printed in Barcelona on an
“Underground” press.
The Cardinal Primate agrees with General Franco that the
separation of Church and State is “incomprehensible.” (“Who
can say, in a Catholic society, where the temporal ends and
the spiritual begins?”) But he cannot be unmindful of the
anti-clericalism which the Church’s identification with repres-
sive regimes has provoked in the past, in Spain as in France
and Latin America. While seeking to safeguard the Church’s
present privileges, he must also seek to store up goodwill for
the future, and to narrow the gap between the prelates and
the older priests who played an active propagandist role in
Franco’s “crusade” and the younger priests whose consciences
are troubled by the oppression and moral apathy fostered by
a quarter of a century of “the Franco regime.”


FORUM
"A GRAVE OFFENCE
AGAINST PUBLIC MORALITY"
"Why I 'rafted' on the Orr supporters"
By DONALD HORNE
J WOULD be considered, 1 suppose, to have “ratted” on the
supporters of Sydney Spar\es Orr. Several years ago, just at the
time when, from being half-forgotten, the Orr case was about to
gain its first main strength, we gave a lot of publicity in The
Observer, of which 1 was then editor, to what we considered,
and would still consider, to be some questionable activities in the
University of Tasmania. Now in The Bulletin we are giving
some publicity to what we consider to be questionable activities
in the Orr camp. This switch seems to call for a franf confession
that we prefer fact-finding and issue-defining to a defence of
academic privilege if it comes to a choice.
1 should like to be able to begin this
confession with a reference to my daily
following of the Orr case when it was
being fought in the Tasmanian Supreme
Court in November, 1956—sitting in front
of my newspaper wisely dissecting each
witness’s evidence and sitting up half the
night in a lather of argument and protest.
I am sorry to say that I have no memory
at all of the case beyond seeing a left-
over poster in the city on what I seem
to remember as a dismal, wet evening
and having for a moment that feeling
of sadness that even journalists can some-
times muster when people have got them-
selves into such a mess that their private
lives become matters of examination and
cross-examination. In case an Orr sup-
porter looks up the weather reports and
discredits what I am saying by discover-
ing that there were no wet evenings in
Sydney in November, 1956, I should add
that the impression of dismalness and
wetness may have been merely subjective.
After that, for a while —very little. The
thing had got into everyone’s conversa-
tions by then and seemed to revolve fit-
fully around the following self-evident
truths: Professors should (or should not)
be dismissed for seducing students ; Or.
was (or was not) a good teacher and/or
philosopher ; no one is ever really seduced
since it takes two to make a seduction
or vice versa. This mixlure of specula-
tion and tittle-tattle could while away the
dull part of an evening pleasantly and
pointlessly. There was interesting psycho-
logical stuff about young women’s fantasy
lives —at that stage the suggestion was
merely that Mr Orr’s student was neurotic
—and, on the whole, a feeling that that
was that. Then into this warm human
interest story burst some wild-eyed men
fresh from Tasmania with the new word
—CONSPIRACY.
James McAuley spent a whole lunch in
1957 sometime impressing on me with the
utmost intensity that there had been a
general conspiracy to frame Mr Orr. I
was impressed by this partly because
McAuley had spent a lot of time with
Orr in Tasmania but mainly because he
was not the kind of man who was look-
ing for this kind of conspiracy ; he was
looking for quite different conspiracies,
of a kind I was looking for myself. But
I must say that I didn’t accept it, or reject
it. There was nothing I couid do about
it Then an article appeared in “Quad
rant” by Hal Wootten, expressing disquiet
about the university’s method of investi-
gating and dismissing Orr. This article,
which seemed to leave most academics
utterly untouched—they didn’t really take
the case up until its sex and whodunit
interest became more prominent—made a
big impression on me. There was a prob-
lem here all right: how do you dismiss
academics? And that seemed the “aca-
demic issue.”
To pass ahead for a moment: When
we took up the Orr case in 1958 I was
dumbfounded to find McAuley and
Wootten on the other side. Wootten and
I exchanged insults in print and McAuley
seemed to think I had taken leave of my
senses. On my side I felt puzzled and
betrayed ; if it hadn’t been for them . . .
This mystery was later cleared up. They
had both visited Orr and were deeply
impressed with the possibility of a mis-
carriage of justice. But when Wootten
began carefully checking the records
against Orr’s statements they found that
they did not confirm Orr’s story. On the
contrary. No praise is too high for the
meticulous honesty with which they
decided that their first impressions were
wrong, and changed sides. No smear has
been too low in some sections of the
Orr camp in attributing other motives to
them.
TTowever in the meantime all 1957 and
half lt/v8 passed by without my
pulses being stirred by the Orr case. This
was the period when Mr Orr was recruit-
ing other supporters who did not prove
to be as sceptical as McAuley and
Wootten. Mainland academics and Hobart
clerics combined in asserting not only that
university procedures had been improper,
but that there was “new evidence” that
would clear Orr ; that he did not seduce
his student but was framed in a whole-
sale conspiracy involving fraud and per-
jury. Even so, most academics were still
not all that interested in the case. In
Sydney Alan Stout had prepared a long
article on it, which was to be published
in the university magazine “Arna”—
except that for some reason I have now
forgotten “Arna” was not to be published.
A friend who had a behind-the-scenes
influence in the Orr camp told me of this.
We got in touch with Stout, who agreed
to publishing extracts from his article in
The Observer. In the meantime we
did a bit of homework on the case, study-
ing Mr Justice Green’s judgment, and the
transcript of the university inquiries.
Then we went overboard about it in
The Observer, with a white on black
caricature of Orr on the cover and a
certain amount of violent language inside.
On re-reading all this just now I have
confirmed my memory that we only went
selectively overboard. What we concen-
trated on were the academic issues. In
this I now see that we were hopelessly
naive. We believed that many people as
well as ourselves were now interested
solely in the procedures used to inquire
into Orr’s conduct and to dismiss him.
Our belief that this was the only important
issue has, in the three years since, been
shown to be hopelessly unworldly. The
real basis of the agitation is quite different
from that.
In June, 1958, we saw ourselves as
gallant defenders of academic freedom.
“There are in fact two main issues: Was
Orr ‘framed’ (in the sense that he was
not given a fair trial by his university)?


Should very special provisions be made
to govern the dismissal of professors?
We would give a definite ‘yes’ to both
questions.”
In August, while we were still display-
ing the purity of our conscience, Hal
Wootten joined with John Kerr in an
analysis of the “new evidence” and of
criticisms of the court case. This was
published in “Free Spirit” along with a
rather lame presentation of the academic
case by Alan Stout. There is no doubt
about it at all. This analysis destroyed
every main assertion the Orr-ites were
then making in the did-he-do-it? field
of discussion. It has been constantly mis-
represented ever since, quite disgrace-
fully as late as this month when Mr
William Ginnane in the magazine “Pros-
pect” falsely said that Kerr and Wootten
had suggested that “The whole affair
should be played down in order . . . not
to bring the Courts into disrepute.” Kerr
and Wootten said no such thing. What
they did say was: “If an innocent man
has been victimised because he stood up
for the truth, he must be restored ... If
on the other hand . . . public confidence
in one of our universities and in our
judicial system has been undermined dis-
honestly, or irresponsibly, those who have
done so are themselves guilty of a grave
offence against public morality.”
At the time when it came out the Kerr-
Wootten report threw us into vituperation
(more violent than Ginnane’s who has
merely attempted an “arrant humbug”).
“Prejudice,” “misrepresentation,” “legalis-
tic red-herrings” were all used in one
issue, with a follow-up of “prejudiced,
selective and narrow.” Kerr and Wootten
cracked back with suggestions of editorial
insanity and irresponsibility and “un-
ieasoned prejudice ” Having declared
deuce in insults we wrote three successive
articles on the conduct of the university
inquiries. (And for anyone still interested
in this —if there is anyone —they are still
worth reading, apart from several puzzling
misprints.) What had put us off balance
on the Kerr-Wootten report was that it
seemed to skirt around the university in-
quiries far too lightly ; we felt that by con-
centrating on the court case it obscured
the “real issues.” One can now see that
Kerr and Wootten were right and we were
wrong: to the Orr camp the shaking of
public confidence in one of our universities
and in our judicial system and the re-
instatement of Orr are “the real issues.”
This came out clearly at once. The
Orr-ite attack did not try to push the
debate back to academic freedom and
academic procedures. Everyone became
an amateur detective. Professor Wright's
“answer” to Kerr and Wootten in the
next issue of “Free Spirit” was a rambling
diversion which Kerr and Wootten were
able to answer completely. Connoisseurs
of this case still chuckle over the passage
in which Wright tried to explain away
the fact that Orr’s student had written
him a letter saying “I love you as much
as I know how at this moment.” On
this Wright commented: “The letter
leminds me very strongly of letters I
have received from students the day after
operation when they were under the in-
fluence of analgesic drugs.”
After the Kerr-Wootten bust-up we
gradually lost interest in publicly arguing
the Orr case. There was still plenty of
room for private argument but fewer and
fewer people were interested in the par-
ticular kind of argument that interested
us. There was no serious attempt to get
the university to give guarantees on dis-
missal procedures and apologise for its
errors. People did not want to talk about
institutions ; they were obscured with per-
sonalities. The nightmare began to form
that if. as the court judgment said, Orr
told lies here was a whole campaign
directed against a university and the
courts that was based on lies. How could
one honorably associate oneself with that?
Then came the revelation that Orr had
told lies in his letter of application for
his Hobart job. Then came news that
the Staff Association’s Federal officers
had not seriously sought discussion with
the university on the academic issues but
were merely demanding the reinstatement
of Orr. The academics imposed their
“censure” (four years afterwards!) and
started levying themselves to support Orr
financially. Perhaps academics who lend
themselves to a deliberate undermining of
a whole university are a greater menace
to academic life than a university that
committed errors in procedure in dismiss-
ing a philandering professor.
Where does one stand now? I suggest
that those academics who are determined
to ruin the University of Tasmania have
a go at answering the following question-
naire. To set discussion rolling I have
filled in my own answers.
1. Did Orr engage in sexual intercourse
with a female student?
My answer would be that the judge
might reasonably have drawn from the
evidence the conclusion he did draw.
2. Was there anything improper about
the conduct of his trial?
NO. The criticism that the onus of
proof rested on Orr is ridiculous.
Is there “new evidence” that would
justify a new trial?
Obviously NO. If there were, Orr
would have produced it. Even the Staff
Association’s Committee of Inquiry could
not report favorably on the “new evi-
dence.’ 5
Should there be some re-trial of the
trial other than a new trial?
NO. How can there be?
3. Was there a conspiracy to “get” Orr
when he was a professor?
YES-—in the sense that the then Vice-
Chancellor seemed to be intent on
“getting” him. And NO —in the sense
that there is no evidence of a widespread
conspiracy on the Kemp charges. What
we are expected to believe here is that for
months a male student, in conspiracy with
the university administration, attempted
to get Miss Kemp to make false accusa-
tions of seduction against Orr; that in
association with Miss Kemp’s father he
finally succeeded in this attempt; that
Miss Kemp subsequently fabricated a
diary in collusion with a member of the
university administration and a member
of the academic staff ; that other witnesses
were persuaded to perjure themselves and
altogether dozens of people were in the
plot; and even that Miss Kemp sub-
sequently married the male student so
that they could not give evidence against
each other.
Was this related to his attitude to the
Royal Commission?
NO. There is absolutely no evidence
for this. If the then Vice-Chancellor was
out to “get” Orr it was for other reasons.
4. Was the university’s conduct in its
inquiries into Orr and its dismissal of
him a danger to academic propriety?
YES. There were grave faults in the
inquiries. It should in any case have
accepted his resignation instead of seek-
ing his dismissal.
5. Should the university have been
“censured” by the Staff Associations?
NO. Only if it had been asked to give
certain guarantees and had refused should
there have been any censure.
6. What are the real demands of the
Staff Associations?
THAT ORR SHOULD BE REIN-
STATED ON THEIR SAY SO.
What are the results of their campaign?
An attempt to destroy the University
of Tasmania.
7. Should academics be dismissed for
seducing students?
The questions involved (standards of
proof, age of the two parties, abuse of
position) are too complicated for a simple
answer. But the answer of Orr and most
of his supporters is—YES.
8. Which is more important:—A con-
cern for academic privilege? Or a
concern for truth?
That is the question the academics
must answer.




LETTERS
"The Bulletin" and Communism
Sir,
The editorial content of The Bulletin
has of late seemed to me —one of the
anti-Communists “neurotically opposed”
to “anti-Communism” —to be attempting
to ram down our throats, without ade-
quate evidence in many cases, a “two
camps” view of everything. Political dis-
cussion which is not conducted on the
highest possible objective plane is worse
than useless: it breeds pockets of un-
informed political stupidity, of which
there is too much already. The his-
torical conditions, if we care to examine
them, show that we are fairly free of
any immediate risk of a Communist
takeover, as are all Western countries.
In such circumstances morbid anti-
Communism can only drive those now
neutral into the arms of the Left. The
identification, too, of such crackpot
philosophies as that of MRA with anti-
Communism does nothing to help the
situation.
Our best defence against Communism
is democracy, above all democracy of the
spirit, lllogic, smears, unfounded allega-
tions and loaded language are not the
weapons of the democratic. Objective
truth is. We cannot preserve democracy
by abrogating the liberty of anyone what-
soever to do anything whatsoever that
we ourselves claim as our right.
I had previously refrained from enter-
ing into your controversy on the question
of Mr Churchward's lecturing, particu-
larly in view of the admirable and intelli-
gent letters by Alan Hughes, but B. W.
Buckley’s latest letter demands some
attention. First, two points that bear
on his argument. Lecture notes, unless
taken down verbatim cannot constitute
adequate evidence as to the content of
lectures, the more so as they tend to be
colored by the views of the note-taker.
Furthermore, Mr Buckley has ignored
the fact that Mr Churchward specifically
points out that his is a Marxist point of
view. I did the course myself in 1958,
and have talked with other students, none
of \vhom were under any illusion as to
the way in which the material was pre-
sented. This brings me to my next point.
Does Mr Buckley, and indeed all the
others who have taken his side of the
argument, think that students are idiots?
There have been a lot of tears shed
(crocodile tears, to my way of thinking)
for the poor students, defenceless against
moral and political corruption, but no
recognition whatsoever of the plain and
simple fact that any student who does
not take what his lecturers tell him with
a large grain of salt is an idiot who has
no right whatever to be at a university.
The facts bear me out in this: students
at Melbourne University can smell a
slanted lecturer —whether Communist or
Catholic —a mile away.
K. J. WALKER
Alphington (Victoria).
TANNER ATTACKED—AGAIN
Sir,
Referring to Tanner’s cartoon on page
13 of the September 9 issue of The
Bulletin, is the Left Wing always on
the right?
DOUGLAS BROOKER
Castlecrag (N.S.W.).
Les lannei writes: This is one of the para-
doxes of Socialism. —Editor. The Bulletin.
AN R.S.L. TAKEOVER?
Sir,
I was astounded, to say the least, to
read an article in your issue of September
2nd. headed “An R.S.L. Takeover?”
under the signature of Michael Harrison
and I would like to state that it was com-
posed of falsehoods, ignorance, vitriol,
frustration, mixed up with a certain
amount of dirt.
Firstly, I question Mr Harrison’s ability
to know how many members there are in
R.S.L. Clubs in New South Wales, and
where he obtained his information that
the estimated and “undisclosed” profits
are £3,800.000.
Each club, has, under the Liquor Laws,
its own local autonomy. The only place
where the correct information could be
ascertained was from the Chief Secre-
tary Department, where the membership
records and balance sheets must be lodged
every year. I wonder whether Mr Har-
rison received his information from this
source or, as most people who attack
poker machines and clubs do. called on
his imagination
On whose authority does Mr Harrison
state, and I quote —“As it is, the bulk
of associates are heartily sick of the dic-
tatorial, and often unfair, controls by
R.S.L. members. This applies in country
areas particularly, where, with the pass-
ing of the years, the number of war
veterans entitled to an R.S.L. badge has
dwindled to an all-powerful few control-
ling so much for so many.”
For the information of those who might
tend to believe what Mr Harrison is talk-
ing about, I would like to point out the
following facts: When an associate mem-'"
ber joins an R.S.L. club he is fully aware
of the terms and conditions of member-
ship, he is also aware that he is given the
privileges and amenities of the club, but
shall have no say in the control or man-
agement. and a solemn obligation is
entered into by the associate member and
the club.
The number of associate members who
are “clamoring - ’ to break that agreement
and demand rights and control are very,
very few.
Despite Mr Harrison's obvious attempt
to stir up dissension, the worst of his
statements was, wherein he endeavored
to smear the statements that are made
regarding the contributions of the clubs
to welfare work, not only of State Branch,
but of the sub-branches throughout the
State. I have very much pleasure in say-
ing that Mr Harrison's vicious attack is
false from start to finish.
His statement that if and when the
R.S.L. forms the “Sons of Soldiers
Organisation” it will get these assets is
correct because the laws of the State allow
for the transference of assets from
“father to son,” and where he says “that
he doubts whether the sons of Ex-Service-
men give a damn for the R.S.L.” I would
like to know of what authority Mr Har-
rison sets himself up as the “great I am”
“We 're all sinners!”


of knowledge of the opinions of the “Sons
of Ex-Servicemen.”
Who is Mr Michael Harrison?
What service did he render during the
last war or in the 1914-18 conflict?
Summing up the whole of his article
I am surprised that a magazine like The
Bulletin would leave itself open to pub-
lish such trash It is obvious that it is
written with a feeling of hatred and frus-
tration towards ex-Servicemen.
I can assure Mr Harrison that if asso-
ciate members are given the right to vote
for the full control of the clubs it will
not only affect R.S.L. clubs, it will affect
member clubs of the Ex-Servicemen’s
Registered Clubs Association (which has
no R.S.L. entity) golf, bowling and
Leagues Clubs and many other clubs in
New South Wales. Out of all these clubs,
why did our friend Mr Harrison pick on
R.S.L. clubs?
WILLIAM YEO
State President, R.S.L.
Anzac House, Sydney.
P.S. I am also the State President of
the N.S.W. R.S.L. Clubs Association.
NATIONAL SHIPPING LINE
Sir,
Mr Eugene Bajkowski stated (Bulletin,
September 2) that Mr Cal well's ideas of
forming a Government-owned interna-
tional shipping line belong to the realm
of fantasy. If this is so, then why not
enter the realm of fantasy, as this would
appear to be where the profit is?
It was announced on the National news
(September 7) that during the past month
three overseas shipping lines had indicated
that they would commence operations on
the Australian trade. This would suggest
that there is good profit from the Aus-
tralian exports and imports which are
carried by ships.
Maybe those world shipping giants
that Mr E. Bajkowski stated were find-
ing the going tough, have the foresight of
Mr Calweil, and can see the way to big
profits from the lucrative Australian
trade.
E. D. JENSEN
Bundaberg (().)
RACE PREJUDICE AND
RELIGION
Sir,
With reference to your very able report
of parts of my paper read to the con-
ference of the British Psychological
Society in Sydney (Bulletin, Septem-
ber 16) I should like to make a few
minor points to set my statistical
conscience at rest.
(1) The correlation between what you
call “Californian authoritarianism and
racialism” in the non-Catholic group was
not high, but merely positive and statisti-
cally significant. This is adequate to
make the relevant inferences which you
reported.
(2) You were quite right in reporting
that this correlation was not obtained in
the Catholic sample, but the converse,
negative correlation though obtained, was
not statistically significant. My main
inference that, unlike in other denomina-
"I can't have you endangering my clients with your carelessness —
you'll just have to go, Mother!”
tions, there is no significant correlation
between authoritarianism and ethno-
centrism in the Catholic sample can be
maintained, yet it cannot be safely
asserted that the relation is the other way
round. Yet the much lower level of
ethnocentrism among the Catholics, as
you correctly report, was quite striking
and statistically highly significant.
(3) My comparison between the Aus -
trahan and American Jewish com mum-
ties was ntghly speculative, stm-ee my
Austrahan Jewish sample and the Amen-
can ones had in mind are not directly
comparable.
(4) 1 stressed that studies exploring t e
effects of socio-economic status, age and
other variables which 1 held constant in
my investigation have to be made to
complete the picture.
I should hke to say that the above,
from a layman s point of view trivial
points, are, if anything, a tribute to the
remarkable accuracy of your reporting.
My paper was based on technical, statists-
; yp ,,■ „ . • , ,
eal arguments, which are, invariably,
misunderstood without a formal tra ning
in inferential statistics, yet you came very
close, indeed, to what l had to say.
FRANK KNOPFELMACHER
University of Melbourne,
ParkviUe (Vic.).
GRETA
Si r _
Surely The Bulletin is beginning to
contradict itself, e.g., in “Answers to
Contributors” vou advise a writer to
learn to write about Australia rather than
other countries (advice to “N.M.,”
pLcmbet 9, 1961).
Yet in the same issue you publish, as
a short story, the feeble and porno-
graphic effort. “Greta,” by Mary Wilkin-
son, set in Italy, and all about the on-
goings of a German trollop and a
moronic American seaman.
Anyway, that yarn has been retold so
many times it's falling apart. Maybe you
think to teach us the facts of life, but we
can provide fornication, abortion and
rookery in Aussie, too.
W. WHATELY
Shoalwater Bay (W.A .),
Sir,
Apropos your editorial (Bulletin,
August 5) re Amy Writing's short story:
“ . . . This is the sort of opening sen-
tence which makes one's scalp creep. It
foices one to read the rest ...” the
opening sentence of last week's story,
“He had never met anyone quite like
Greta before” was corny enough to make
me give up straight away—touche.
And anyway, what has an American
sailor messing about with an Italian pros-
titute in Naples got to do with encourag-
ing the Australian short story?
M. Avril
Manly (N.S.W.).
If Mi Avril had read the story before com-
menting on it he would have discovered that
the girl was not Italian. As regards his second
paragraph: the story was written by an Aus-
tralian. —Editor, The Bulletin.
WHO STARTED THE
RABAUL RIOTS
Sir,
In your issue of September 2 there are
two grave errors. Neither Mr Fried-
lander nor Mr D'Arcy Ryan can be taxed
with the first, for neither describe the
Rabaul trouble as a “Race Riot”; and it
was not one in any sense. Where your
two correspondents are in error is that
whereas they treat the Tolais as one
people, which they are, although a small
minority of the people of New Britain,
the Sepiks are classed as one people,
which is absurd.
The Sepik district, official homeland
of thousands of workers throughout


Kslab’ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
\k- o's ULLlVajvj
PTY LTD
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STKREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOK BIDDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS C PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
MA.CKSUL,” BRISBANE
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
looses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
?•! YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC:
Oil the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM 2001.
Papua-New Guinea, has an area of well
over 20,000 square miles. It was over
28,000 square miles in my day, when the
Telafomin area was included in Sepik.
Scattered throughout the district are
Papuans, Melanesians and the remnants
of a dwarf tribe. These latter are not
strictly scientific dwarfs, as they have a
few centimetres too many ; but they are
a noticeably small people.
Quite often people have the river tribes
in mind when they speak of the Sepiks,
so let us glance at them. The river-mouth
villages, Kopa, for instance, are Mela-
nesians. The people of Suk and Mangan,
perhaps a couple of hundred all told,
are the remnants of early inhabitants who
were swamped when the middle-river
Papuans came down stream in ages past.
People akin to Suk are not met with
again until one has travelled 400 miles
upstream. Incidentally, Fr Kirschbaum,
who spent years learning their language,
told me that it had 12 genders.
In 20 years of administration and
exploration in New Guinea, I found no
evidence of any racial clash. Head-
hunting and other tribal affrays there
were, to be sure, but invariably caused
by trespass and more often than not
between peoples speaking the same
language. The Rabaul riot was serious
enough ; and might have been much
worse, but for Heaven’s sake let us not
make a Congo out of it.
G. W. L. TOWNSEND
Palm woods ( Queensland ).
A COMMUNIST COMEBACK?
Sir,
“Mugga” reports (Bulletin. Septem-
ber, 16) that Mr A. Chorley of the
Wollongong Ironworkers’ Rank and File
Vigilance Committee, “for some reason
or another got in touch with an ex-
Communist, Mr W. Petersen, a member
of Underra (sic) A.L.P. Branch.” As a
consequence Mr Rex Connor, M.L.A., is
alleged to have discussed the question of
unity tickets with a Communist union
official.
I can only assume that the use of my
name in this connection and the publicis-
ing of my former political affiliations is
designed to give the impression of sinister
political machinations in the Labor move-
ment in Wollongong.
Might 1 point out that Mr Chorley
lives only a mile away from me? He is
president of Berkeley A.L.P. Branch. 1
am secretary of Unanderra A.L.P.
Branch. Our branches are affiliated to
the same Federal Electorate Council,
State Electorate Council and Municipal
Assembly. We are personal friends and
see one another regularly both for social
and political reasons —not to mention
numerous accidental meetings over the
years.
Anything less sinister than a meeting
between Mr Chorley and myself would
be difficult to imagine. An intriguing
question is why Mr Chorley had to see
me to contact Mr Connor. Perhaps
“Mugga” will explain in more detail.
In any case, what business is it of
“Mugga” or The Bulletin? The
Bulletin is obviously an avowed sup-
porter of the system of capitalist exploita-
tion. If we are in any doubt about this
fact we have only to read “Speculator's
Diary,” with its nauseating revelations of
a respectable bludger who should be in
prison for theft.
What is really sinister is how “Mugga”
got together the background material for
his scurrilous concoction of truth, lies
and half-truths. Apparently The Bulle-
tin has informants within the Labor
movement in Wollongong who are so
devoid of working-class principles as to
give internal information to an organ of
the capitalist class.
It is to be hoped that the persons con-
cerned will be soon discovered and ex-
pelled from Labor’s ranks. In the mean-
time it is gratifying to know that they are
hostile to me and my Socialist politics.
GEORGE PETERSEN
Unanderra (N.S. IV.).
Mugga replies:
Mr Petersen has contradicted nothing in the
stor>. He has only corrected a spelling mistake,
lor which I thank him. He did not deign to
enlighten any of us on his wild allegations of
“scurrilous concoction of truth, lies and half-
truths." —Editor, Ihe Bulletin.
RESCUING ARCHIVES
Sir,
In his article "Rescuing Archives”
(Bulletin, September 9) M. H. Ellis
states “ and the other States have
gradually, and mainly since a conference
held in 1949, acquired separate archives
wedded to their public library systems
and operated under their public library
legislation. But N.S.W. is the first State
to have a special Archives Act.”
In reply to this may 1 point out that
the South Australian Archives was estab-
lished as long ago as 1920 (under the
control of the Board of Governors of the
Public Library, Museum and Art Gallery),
and that in 1925 the South Australian
Parliament passed an Act to regulate the
disposal of public documents (No. 1683
of 1925) which prohibited the destruction
of public documents without the approval
of the Board of Governors, provided for
the transfer of public documents to the
South Australian Archives, and also for
the recovery of any public documents
improperly held in private possession.
This South Australian Act of 1925 was
the first archival legislation in Australia
—35 years before the N.S.W. Act —and
through it the official archives of South
Australia have since been effectively
managed. In 1939 the provisions of the
1925 Act were incorporated as Part 111
of the Libraries and Institutes Act
1939 (No. 44 of 1939) and they apply,
incidentally, not only to the records of
Government departments but also to all
municipal authorities and to any body
which is or has been subsidised by the
Government. Approval for the destruc-
tion of public documents is, under the
1939 Act, vested in the Libraries Board
of South Australia.
D. G. McFARING
Chairman, Libraries Board
of South Australia
Adelaide.


OUT and ABOUT
NEW STATESMAN
When Stalingrad is Khrushcheville
There will be room for changes still:
Who knows, some future man of muscle
May name it after Bertrand Russell?
Anton Vogt
’’Jolly Jack's" Last Word
J. B. Priestley’s new novel “Saturn
Over the Water,” part of the action
of which takes place in Australia, is just
out. Priestley, presumably, managed to
gather his material in between times ot
firing off broadsides at our “beery
country,” our “lazy minds” and our “H.P.
and TV mentality” during his visit two
years ago.
However, this description of the Aus-
tralian countryside, taken from the book,
is comparatively mild, and, it might be
added, not at all original.
“At one place, where 1 stopped to use
the flask I'd bought and had filled at
Ballarat, 1 had the whole visible world
to myself. If anything else was alive, it
kept dead quiet.
“Under silvery clouds the horizon all
round was simply so much grey-blue haze.
Between , that and the road and me was
desert that started as a light yellow ochre
in the foreground and then deepened to
a dark ochre and some patches of raw
umber. And there was nothing else to
be seen there except some blackened
stumps of trees, which might have been
slashed into a pale watercolor by some-
body who was impatient and wanted to
try a stick of charcoal.
“It. was like drinking tepid strong tea
and then lighting a pile wTen somehow
you’d missed your own time by a million
years. Anybody who could look at that
landscape and still think in terms of votes,
taxes, annual revenues and radio sets
would have to have either a lot less
imagination or a lot more than I have.
“And I might as well add here that all
the time I was in Australia this sense
of the huge dusty old continent, haunted
not by men and their history but only by
ghostly gum trees, never left me.”
interstate Interests
It looks as though Queensland and
N.S.W. will have to get together and
discuss a grave situation which has arisen
Or the border, namely, the dismemberment
of eagle hawks by certain cunning indivi-
have discovered that one State
pays bounty on the claws and the other
on heads.
The drill is to shoot your hawk in
Queensland, cash in the claws for 5/-
with the local authorities, and nip across
the border to collect another dollar for
the head in N.S.W.
The chairman of Queensland's Co-
ordinating Board has deplored this lack
of co-ordination and called for some
action to end the “double bounty.”
Notes on the Nolan Exhibition
Tt looks as if Australians are happy to
have Sidney Nolan with them once
again, judging by the fact that £5500
worth of his paintings were sold within
two days of the opening of his exhibi-
tion at the Bonython Gallery, Adelaide.
Prices ranged from 900 guineas for
some of the large paintings to 100 guineas
for the small “Leda and the Swan” series
and 75 guineas for the little landscapes.
Two very fine large works have been
bought by State galleries ; Adelaide has
the sinister “Convict in Swamp" and
Hobart the claustrophobic "Figures in
Jungle.” The Melbourne gallery’s direc-
tor, Eric Westbrook, opened the show
(although his speech must have been a
little indistinct to the people bulging six
deep out the front door) ; he didn't buy
a painting, perhaps because he is in the
happy , position of having some of the
works coming to him anyway, on semi-
permanent loan.
The big “Animal in Swamp'" is on
loan to the exhibition by the gallery's
director, Kym Bonython ; in a letter
Nolan describes it as “one of my
favorites; it seemed to sum up my feel-
ings in retrospect for all the drought
animals I saw and painted.”
All 15 small Ledas have been sold ;
the unevenness of their quality doesn t
“Who Wants to know ?"


\{(is
K -I>ujrdfk/idi>
Shkkkv
Penfolds
Amontillado Sherry
Full-bodied, dry
9 a
SKERRY
Penfolds Pale
Dry Fino Sherry
A classic sherry
i?
n
YrT
a o
o
00
000
0000,
00000
£ -XT:,., *r
■*ss^
t fprr-j/4y/ot
SHKKKY
Penfolds Special
Flor Sherry
Delicately blended
FOR
PERFECT WINES
Penfolds Club Port
Mellow perfection
t’O K.'J
Pcnfolds Private
Bin Port
Full aged, tawny
\
36/1
seem to have worried anyone. It is a
tribute to the prestige of Nolan’s “name”
that he has joined the ranks of those
like Picasso whose worst efforts are
bought on sight. Several of the lovely
little landscapes have been sold, but the
myth seems to have the greater draw,
as some of the unsold landscapes are
better than some of the sold Ledas.
This exhibition has created extra-
ordinary interest, not only among art-
lovers. More and more the financial
investment boys are eyeing off Australian
art. The next targets are in the five-
figure bracket.
Bonython’s latest activity is the organ-
j sa tion of a large and representative
exhibition of Australian art to be shown
j n os A nge j es neX { year by the tele-
visjon performer Raymond Burr. Many
Australian artists at present living in
London are sending works from there
direct, while the rest will be collected
in Australia.
Bonython has found in Burr someone
as high-powered as himself. When last
seen he was still gasping at a 489-word
cable from Burr, with no words cut to
take away from the flavor of the style.
No Conflicting Interests
CHr John Wedgwood, of the British
pottery firm, who is at present in
Australia, is the brother of C. V. (Cicely
Veronica) Wedgwood, the historian. How-
ever, although the firm was founded in
the 17th century, which is Miss Wedg-
wood’s period, she takes no interest in
its running , her brother, who is deputy
chairman of the firm, has little interest
in the 17th century.
Adelaide’s Masochistic
Moments
Tn a masochistic moment Adelaide in-
-* vited Robin (“Australian Ugliness”)
Boyd to come over for TV appearances
and lectures.
His opening gambit on ,television
shattered local civic pride. He was asked
what he thought of the King William
Street median strip. “That little bit of
grass . . well!” The irony was not lost
on viewers. . The interviewers tried to
save the situation by referring to
Adelaide’s trees. Boyd conceded the
point: Adelaide loves trees so long as they
are pruned to resemble the knuckles
of a retired pug.
At the end of the session Adelaide’s
civic self-respect had taken a pretty bad
beating. However, the correspondence
column of the “Advertiser” recently
featured with all due seriousness a pro-
posal which will make the superior Mr
Boyd sit up and take notice:
“Sir
This community has spent millions of' pounds
on a sewerage system for humans, but has
made no provision for dogs. This is a health
matter....”
Poems Off the Presses
TPhe Commonwealth Literary Fund has
been giving widespread support for
poetry publication, and the result has
been a sudden and startling improvement
in the quality of poetry books as well as
the number published. In fact it is turn-
ing into something of an interstate battle
of the prestige publishers.
Last month Angus and Robertson
launched six poetry volumes simul-
taneously. This month Jacaranda Press
in Brisbane issued two volumes, by
Thomas Shapcott and Val Vallis.
F. W. Cheshire, of Melbourne, aren’t
going to be out of the fun. As a follow-
up to C. R. Jury’s “Sun in Servitude” the
Melbourne publishers have no fewer than
four poetry books currently on the stocks.
Adelaide is having ago as well. Rigby
Ltd, using the resources of the Griffin
Press, have issued “Australian Poets
Speak," an filustrated Australiana school
anthology of attractive design.
The outcome of this publishing energy .
1961 will be statistically the biggest year
in poetry publication since the end of
the war.


OBSERVER
A Lot of Things
To Attend To
The name Bonython sits with dignity
and comfort on the Adelaide skyline,
built of good works and public spirit,
founded on sober sense and hard work.
Except for the youngest member of the
family, Kym, whose public image is more
likely to be of a figure six feet in the
air. upside down in an overturning speed-
car, both arms extended, about to be
killed. (Last time he only burned his
hand ; the time before that he broke his
neck.) Yet this is the same man who
this year opened the Bonython Art Gal-
lery. .Sidney Nolan is holding his only
exhibition in Australia in 1961 at the
same gallery this month. This is the same
man whose “Modern Australian Painting
and Sculpture"’ (1960), was the most
important art book produced in Australia
for many years.
Kym Bonython is much more com-
plicated than his extrovert showmanship
suggests and he has done much more
in his 40 years than most people who
don't look halt as boyish. This last
attribute is particularly apt to lead the
casual acquaintance astray. The blond
hair that slips over the forehead, the
bright blue eyes and the gleaming grin
are combined with a slight air of in-
attention, of listening to something off-
stage, as if he were about to nip into
the next room and put another record on
the gramophone. He has. indeed, a lot
of things to attend to.
He went to school at St Peter’s College
and in the roaring days of car-racing on
Sellick’s Beach and at Buckland Park in
the mid-’thirties he was a small figure in
white overalls in and around his
brother Warren’s M.G. By 1937 he was
playing jazz records over the A 8.C.,
running the first regular jazz session in
Australia, which is still going strong as
“Tempo of the Times."'
In the piiddle of a party Bonython will
suddenly say “Excuse me."’ jump into his
Bristol, and a few minutes later be dis-
cussing the latest batch of jazz records
over the air. He used to play the drums
himself, m fact, when his mother and
father were away on one occasion in
Western Australia he pawned all his
clothes to buy his first set of second-
hand drums.
Bonython was in the R.A.A.F. from
1940 to 1945 and ended up as a Squadron
Leader with the D F.C. and the A.F.C.,
collected for work on aerial photo-
reconnaissance Mosquitoes in the East
Indies, torpedo bombers around Milne
Bay, and as Chief Flying Instructor at
Nowra and Jervis Bay. Despite his
facility for nearly killing himself, he sur-
vived the war relatively undamaged.
In Timor, when he and his crew had
to walk 70 miles back to base after an
emergency landing, he managed to sal-
vage his gramophone and records (con-
stant companions) from the aircraft.
When the party camped overnight in a
native village, Kvm played Benny Good-
man and Gene Krupa to the rapt villagers;
the chief then summoned his own orches-
tra and gave Bonython the chance to take
over the tom-toms
After the war Bonython ran a dairy-
farm, with sheep and beef cattle as a
sideline, at Mt Pleasant, north-east of
Adelaide. As his war career indicates,
he enjoys himself but is also extremely
efficient and not at all content to jog
along The farm was publicly recognised
in S.A. as being very well run indeed ;
his Jerseys won numerous championships,
including the Royal Adelaide Show, and
several of his cows topped production
in the State. One of his imported bulls
made another kind of mark by deter-
minedly goring his owner—one of Bony-
thon’s numerous escapes from permanent
injury. In 1954 Bonython sold the
property and came to live in the city, to
move from primary production into the
entertainment business.
For seven years he has been running
Rowley Parky a speedway that attracts
up to 24,000 people at its weekly shows.
No office promoter, he races himself and
has won several national championships.
The crowds come for thrills, and in those
“He just sits there gazing abstractedly, not doing a tap all day !"
lethal little cars Bonython has provided
several himself.
Until recently he has also done a lot
of speedboat racing and has won the
national hydroplane championship. He
has had four boats called Bullo Bee, not
all of which retired through old age. He
probably had his luckiest escape in the
first one, when he slowed to avoid a boat
that had broken down, and the boat
behind him drove clean over the top of
him, cutting his steering wheel in half
with its propeller and grazing his head
with its hull.
His latest gadget is a two-man sub-
marine of Italian design, developed from
those used during the war. Battery-
driven, it will do six knots on the surface
and four knots under water, and can be
parked on the bottom of the sea ; you sit
in it exposed to the water, wearing aqua-
lung gear. One of the things Bonython
hopes to be able to do with it is to
frighten the sharks, just for a change.
As the local representative of Aztec
Services, Bonython has brought out the
sort of entertainers that are not usually
available in Adelaide: the Irish Guards
Band, the Dave Brubeck quartet, Winifred
Atwell, Gene Krupa, the Water Follies.
Bonython started collecting paintings
and sculpture when living in the country
after the war. He bought his first Nolan
in 1948 for £3O ; the second, an aerial
desert landscape, was sent to a loan ex-
hibition in London, where the gallery
director absentmindedly sold it to the
Tate.
Like most collectors, Bonython has
bought some duds, but the good ones have
formed one of the finest collections of
modern Australian art in the country.
It is particularly strong in the work of
Drysdale, Nolan, Arthur Boyd and the
Sydney abstract painters, all housed in a
highly concentrated form in a little gallery
built onto his house on the beach at
Tennyson.


“Modern Australian Painters and
Sculptors” sold out in six months, and
many copies went overseas. It cost Bony-
thon about £7OOO to produce and he has
just about broken even.
The book, like the announcements from
his art gallery, bears the insignia of a
bull with K B underneath. He enjoys
publicity, and he enjoys creating it for
himself, but it is no explanation of him
to say that his activities are just money-
making or self-advertising. As critic
Alan McCulloch pointed out when the
art book first appeared, it is not a parade
of Bonython's own pictures nor of his
private tastes. It also took some courage
to produce.
Similarly with the gallery. This, one
hopes, will pay its way (once again a risky
way), but it will also be a great asset
to Adelaide, which now has only one
other full-sized gallery. (It is a cunningly
converted house in North Adelaide, well
lit and capable of giving room to large
paintings.)
Bonython has been married twice and
has five children. His second wife was a
Miss South Australia in the days when she
was Julieanne McClure. She still does
a lot of modelling in Adelaide.
Puzzling Kym Bonython out is a
favorite occupation in Adelaide. Of
course, no one gets anywhere, especially
as there is a dodgy shyness behind the
public entertainer. He neither smokes
nor drinks; the controls do not slip. He
goes his own way, whether under the
water, around the cinders or between
those framed transformations of canvas
or masonite. The question of identity is,
after all, a prime question of art.
GEOFFREY DUTTON
DESIGN
No Short-cuts
to Perfection
IN the attic of an old building in George
Street North, Sydney, Australian
Darani Lewers and Danish Helge Larsen
make silver jewellery. The building, which
has the added cachet of being condemned,
looks out on the massive, un pleasing new'
overseas terminal and the crass complica-
tions of Circular Quay, but the tiny
studio, the size of a single-berth cabin,
in which Miss Lew'ers and Mr Larsen
work, has a medieval atmosphere.
Although the jewellery they make is
modern in design, their methods are the
old, painstaking ones of the craftsman
for whom there are no short cuts to per-
fection.
Jewellery-making has few able prac-
titioners in Australia. Relatively few'
artists seem to want to combine the excite-
ment of design with the comfort of
making something with the hands.
Miss Lewers and Mr Larsen recently
held their first exhibition in Sydney. It
was highly successful. They are planning
to show in other States, and, if ever they
can overcome the complicated customs
provisions covering taking jewellery from
country to country for purposes of sale,
to live and work abroad for some time.
Perhaps the most spectacular pieces
in the exhibition were the neck-rings.
Some of these were quite massive pieces
of silver, but they sit lightly on the neck,
and although some of them are in one
piece and have no clasp they are entirely
secure. Miss Lewers and Mr Larsen
also .showed some striking medallions,
some ear-rings, bracelet and ring sets,
and some attractive cuff-links for either
men or women.
Mr Larsen served a four years’ appren-
tice s h i p in jewellery - making in
Copenhagen. He said there would be
at least 1000 creative jewellers in
Denmark. Danes working in silver
train either as jewellers, which involves
the “building up” of shapes in silver, gold
or other metal and the use of precious or
other stones,, or in silversmithing. Mr
Larsen’s training w'as in jewellery but he
has acquired a fair knowledge of silver-
smithing.
After his apprenticeship he spent two
years at a design school and then two
years in the United States as an exchange
student. Mr Larsen said that some
North American Indians still do remark-
able work in silver, although, of course,
there is a tendency to turn out second-
rate work to keep up with the demand
of tourists.
Miss Lewers, who is a daughter of
sculptor Gerald Lewers and painter
Margo Lewers, decided, after graduating
in Arts from Sydney University, that she
wanted to “do something” with her hands,
but she felt she wanted something which
might offer a more secure livelihood than
painting or sculpture.
She turned to jewellery. She worked
at first for a year with an Estonian-born
master jeweller and then for six not very
happy months with an imitation jewellery
firm here. Then she went to Denmark.
There she found work at the studio of
Mr Larsen. Soon after she returned to
Australia he came here, both to establish
himself as a creative jeweller and to
marry Miss Lewers. They were married
soon after their Sydney exhibition ended.
Many of the tools and pieces of equip-
ment which Miss Lewers and Mr Larsen
use were brought from Copenhagen.
There is a wide selection of hammers.
but they are not bright, hardware-shop
hammers. They are dulled with rust and
show signs of wear from much heavy
pounding. There are sets of pliers and
files, all set out neatly on the rough wood
bench.
There is an electric drill, which is
exactly the same as a dentist’s drill, and
with the same agonising choice of drill-
heads.
The hand-drill, which Mr Larsen and
Miss Lewers use, is exactly the same as
those used by craftsmen before Christ,
except that it has a metal instead of a
flint head. Mr Larsen claims that the
hand-drill is more accurate than the
power-drill.
There is also an electric polisher, which,
Miss Lewers says with a good deal of
healthy respect, can easily account lor a
finger or an eye. ‘Tt looks like the
polisher which a bootmaker uses,” she
said, “but it revolves much faster. 1 am
terrified of it.”
The 112-pound anvil was bought
second-hand in Sydney and is a black-
smith's anvil. “It is really a bit too big
for jewellery,” Mr Larsen said, “but if 1
had brought one from Denmark it
would have fallen through the bottom
of the boat”
Miss Lewers and Mr Larsen buy their
raw materials from any one of a number
of metallurgists, who mostly have their
shops in Sydney arcades. The silver
comes in sheet or wire form and is pure
silver combined with an alloy of .075
copper. This is the purest silver it
is possible to work with and the jewellery
is stamped “sterling silver.”
Mr Larsen said that the making of
silver jewellery has had a continuous
history in Denmark from Viking times,
but the craft had undergone many
vicissitudes. In the 19th century it was
kept going only as a cottage industry.
In the past 50 years there has been a
strong revival, set in motion mainly by
Georg Jensen.
Mr Larsen said that although an
electric drill and an electric polisher
were now used, other methods have not
changed.
Silversmithing is still a time-consuming
craft. A piece of jewellery, such as the
neck-rings wrick Mr Larsen and Miss
Lewers make, might take several days of
hammering on the anvil, and four or
five hours each of filing, sandpapering
and polishing. These figures are entirely
elastic. Some pieces may take much
more, some less.
Both Mr Larsen and Miss Lewers say
they might spend several days on the
design of a piece of jewellery, and in
working out on paper whether it is
possible to translate the design into silver.
While Mr Larsen will work on several
pieces at once, putting one aside when
it temporarily bores him or he comes up
against a problem which has no immedi-
ate solution Miss Lewers likes to get a
piece finished once it is in train. “I get
impatient and work away like fury,”
she said, “but Helge does not seem to
worry about the final result until the
piece is finished.


:
■■ m g i
52JL.
S'.- tf(Si
c m
■■■ ■ :■ ■: ■ ■■
'! ! \
:■ ■;■■■'.,
So many
things that
make life
happier
come through
S&L steel pipes
T H ROUGH steel pipes of every conceivable
size, flow the oil and raw materials that keep the
continent’s industrial wheels turning; the life
preserving water; gas, steam and the electric
current that provides power, lighting and com-
munications.
Steel pipe is so easy to form and join and has
the inherent strength and stability to take tough
assignments for long periods. Costwise, steel pipe
stands alone for low initial cost and low installa-
tion cost.
Before finalising your next project, talk “steel
piping” with Stewarts & Lloyds; the leading
Australian producers of welded and seamless steel
pipes.
tfjp
STEWARTS and LLOYDS (Distributors) PTY. LIMITED
BRANCHES: All Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong,
Geelong, Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs AGENCIES: Cairns, Mackay, Kalgoorlie.
55G.1.61


ABORIGINALITIES
Snakes in the Green Cane
The cocky was simple, hard-working
and honest; but obstinate. He
wouldn't burn the cane.
In those days we used to cut the cane
in the leaf, unless we got permission to
burn from the cane inspector because of
weeds in the cane or stony country.
It was a good heavy crop of badilla,
but a lot of it was lying down from the
floods and the weather was getting hot.
And cutting green cane in hot weather
is not fun. Anyway we wanted it burnt.
But all our appeals to the cocky were
fruitless —you can't argue with an oaf.
There was only one thing to do if he
wouldn’t listen to reason —sneak out in
the middle of the night and put a candle
in it But we didn't want to do this
because other cockies might suffer if the
fire got out of hand. Also there was a
15 years’ gaol penalty if you were caught.
So we decided to give him another day
to change his mind.
This morning Nugget, the ganger, was
in f he row ahead of me and 1 saw him
jump back then leap in and chop down
hard with his knife. I knew it was a
snake.
“Look at this, son,” he said holding up
six feet of black snake without a head.
He dug a hole with his knife and buried
the head and stamped the earth down
with his boot. Then he sang out to the
cocky who was hauling the cane 50 yards
away.
“Look at this, Buck,” he shouted, hold-
ing up the snake. “Oo,” said Buck, “big
one, eh? What is he?” “Black—red
belly,” answered Nugget. “You wanta
watch ’em,” said Buck, “they’re poison-
ous.'’
“Telling me,” said Nugget. Then,
getting his head down again, “I’ll make
the bastard burn the cane.” And he went
on chopping, dragging the snake behind
him through the trash with the hook of
his knife. After about six or seven stools
he sang out again holding up the snake.
“Hey, Buck!” The cocky halted his team
and looked. “What, another one? Jeez,
two in one row, eh? Geddup.”
“Keep it going, son,” said Nugget to
me, “your turn next. Give him about
five minutes then wake the other blokes
up.”
So we went on cutting, me dragging the
snake behind between my row and the
next. Then after about five minutes 1
sang out to the cocky and held up the
snake.
This time the cocky was really rattled,
but he went on with his work as if snakes
were nothing to him.
“Tell the next bloke to leave it for
half an hour, son,” said Nugget, “don’t
make it a welter or he'll wake up.” I
passed the word along and we didn't find
any more snakes until the cook hit the
paddock with smoko. Then the third
bloke held up the snake and sang out,
“Hey, Buck!”
We all stuck our knives in the ground
and walked over to the cook. The cocky
joined us.
“What about burning this cane. Buck,”
said Nugget, “this paddock’s full of
snakes.” “Never seen anything like it,”
said the cocky. “We better burn it
all right.”
“And we want green price burnt,” said
Nugget, “and 1 don't mean maybe.” And
we got green price burnt.
LES SUCH
The Devil's Marbles
A gibbous, full moon is rising over this
valley of the boulders just before sun-
set. The huge boulders are all shapes,
some spherical, gibbous, pitted, moon-
like, piled and balanced precariously on
top of one another. Some are oval,
sunken monoliths, standing and leaning
cut of the frosty colored spinifex. Some
are great phallic shapes, lying broken in
two across other boulders.
The first stars are appearing. My
camp is under an overhanging, concave
boulder I have a clean, sandy space
about 20ft. by 40 ft. enclosed by the huge
monoliths. The sky, scattered now with
stars, is an irregular shape above my head.
Through the apertures of the great stones
I see the blond spinifex and young ghost-
gums of the valley where other mono-
liths stand up against the night.
How did these huge stone shapes come
to be here, isolated in this valley? Perhaps
a geologist would explain that they were
deposited here by some long-past glacerial
action. But, to me, their huge, mysteri-
ous presences standing, reclining, crouch-
ing, under the stars and the full moon,
are mythical, ageless and enigmatical.
Before I made my camp. 1 climbed up
on to a conglomerate height of the
boulders. Far down the valley, among
the spinifex and the thin-limbed ghost-
gurns, they were massed, standing, reclin-
ing and crouching. They were like some
vast, prehistoric herd of mammoths, rumi-
nating, feeding, resting, at peace, and at
one. with the limitless, primeval land-
scape.
Yes, this is most certainly a sacred
place of the aborigines. Yet 1 do not
feel arraid, alone here among these huge,
metamorphoses. To me. they are benign.
I experience no strange, uneasy feeling
among them, no resenting, even evil
power emanating from this place as l
have felt in other camping-places.
1 walk out into the spinifex and moon-
light. Boulders stand around me that
appear to be shelled, split and broken
apart by contractions and expansions of
aeons of heat and cold.
Half an hour before the sun fired
golden the top of the boulder-monolith
in front of me, the full, golden moon set
behind the ranges in the south-west. The
place is entirely without birds. Morning
comes in absolute silence. And the soft,
mild, moon-night passed in absolute
silence.
ROLAND ROBINSON
That Was Australia
One Billjim at least has an idea that
they carry the coupon business too far in
England. This romantic warrior, with his
lady, wandered into Hyde Park, where
—though they didn’t know it—a charge
is made for the chairs. The lady perched
on his knee. Just as she had dropped
her head on his neck a harsh voice from
the fog asked “Have you got your
tickets:'” “Cripes!” replied the Digger.
“D’you collect a tax on this, too?”
— “Bulletin, January 23, 1919.
One day recently Judge Windeyer
(N.S.W.) granted 21 divorces in a single
day. In 1875, nine divorces were the
whole year’s record. There were 11
divorces in 1878; 10 in 1879: 15 in 1881;
and 14 in 1883. The business of putting
asunder those whom God hath joined
is looking up.
— “Bulletin,” September 16, 1893.
The girl-suicide wants to be found
dead in her little white bed, with her
hands clasped on her bosom, and a
placid smile on her face, and a flower
somewhere about. It is in an ineffective
effort to arrive at this result that she
consumes a lot of match-heads, and dies in
the most horrible agony. The “Bulletin”
strongly cautions all intending suicides
against strychnia, phosphorus, arsenic,
oxalic and carbolic acids, and will for-
ward a recipe for painless self-effacement
for two stamps. N.B. —When contem-
plating suicide always sit down and
write to a newspaper for advice, ft will
arrive in the form of the police.
— -“Bulletin,” September 9, 1893.
A fetching German woman, accused
in Melbourne Divorce Court of infidelity
with a tram-conductor (tram-conductors
appear as dangerous as tenors) , being
questioned as to whether she had kissed
the co., gave an indignant negative; but
when asked if he had kissed her she
dropped an unmistakable wink at his
Honor. She carried the court completely
with her, and it consented to overlook
her non-compliance with legal formali-
ties and allow the case to be, re-opened.
— “Bulletin,” September 2, 1893.


REVIEWS
THEATRE
Tennessee Belly Laughs
Period of Adjustment. Williams. Inde-
pendent. Sydney.
\l7ith a barrage of warm, classical
belly laughs, the new comedy
“Period of Adjustment” not only shows
that Tennessee Williams is the greatest
living English-speaking playwright: it
also serves notice that Williams is himself
fighting to correct the distorted public
image of himself which has got about in
recent years.
To anyone who reads Williams fairly
and with no prejudging, it is obvious
that the playwright is always on the side
of the angels. One finishes “Streetcar
Named Desire” with a fearful sense of
pity for the fragile Blanche, making a
doomed fight for sanity and a mere
morsel of security and love. Most pro-
ductions along the Elia Kazan line of
tricksy theatre distort the play so that
one admires the violence of Kowalski,
who rapes and brutalises Blanche, and
farewells her to the asylum. This has
been the experience with many Wililams
stage and film productions; he has
rarely been happy with the treatment of
his work, and because he has seen the
elements of violence and sex in his works
seized on and made the major feature, he
has lately written in a way which defies
the egotistic producer seeking a
“vehicle.”
It would need brazenly deliberate re-
shaping of the play to take away the
lyricism and pity of “Orpheus Descend-
ing”; it would need a genius in mis-
interpretation to take away our feeling
for the young girl in “Suddenly Last
Summer,” whose sanity is being attacked
by a vicious and wealthy old woman.
And now, with “Period of Adjustment,”
Williams come right out with a warmly
human comedy, rich, gutsy and bawdy,
filled with love for people, packed with
sheer fondness for the ordinary young
people who are the characters of his
comedy.
On Christmas Eve a young married
couple have just separated because the
husband, a war hero, has finally rebelled
against being an office stooge of his
father-in-law. In a first shock of temper,
the wife runs off to mother. We meet the
husband, sitting in front of his Christmas
tree, drinking beer gloomily, throwing
the cans on the front lawn. Into this
cheerless set-up comes his great war-time
buddy, with a delicious new bride,
slightly scatter-brained but a doll if ever
there was one.
The buddy immediately departs on a
shopping trip, or something ; is absent
long enough to make his new bride tear-
ful, and allow her time to tell Ralph, the
deserted husband, most of her woes.
These add up to an inconsiderate boob
who drank all day before his wedding
night, and then was so urgent in his
demands that he scared his little virgin
wife more than somewhat. Over the
next two acts, all is straightened out.
The newly-weds are persuaded they’re
just going through a perfectly natural
“period of adjustment.” This is aided
by some hilariously funny war-time
stories by Ralph—who recalls how
George (the new husband) would sit up
in bed at the Tokyo brothel, drinking
sake and teaching the girls to speak
English but nothing else. “Then,” says
Ralph, “he’d come downstairs, doin’ up
his belt, and sayin’ ‘Oh, man! Broth-err! ’
like he’d really laid ’em waste.”
The last act has a scene which in the
right hands could become the greatest of
comedy. In a long drunken discussion
the two buddies discuss George’s marital
troubles, with Ralph giving frank and
wonderful advice, and George being
finally humbled by his mate’s knowledge
that George had never been good with
the girls, and that he was plain scared
of his new and lovely wife.
From the bedroom, the girl overhears
most of this magnificent talk, straight
from Rabelais (she has sneaked in
unnoticed), and in the final scene puts
her new knowledge to sweet, utterly
feminine use. Ralph and his wife are
reconciled, and all four plan to go off
West together, and raise Texas long-
horns. “A Texas longhorn,” George
persuades them, “is a dignified animal.
It’s got a great future in television.”
With such a wonderful play on their
hands, it is sad to report that Sydney’s
Independent Theatre have treated it very
badly. Producer Edward Hepple, even
though this is his first production, could
surely have understood more of what
the play is all about —his programme
note shows he has a wrong view to begin
with. The setting for the comedy is
just about as bad as I can remember in
recent years ; a designer’s first, perhaps
only, duty is to provide his actors with
imaginative space in which to act. The
cast of “Period of Adjustment” are
cooped up into an area about as big
as a circus cage, a hopeless state of affairs
for a comedy as full of life as this one.
By the time the play comes on as the
Friday-Saturday bill at the theatre, surely
Mr Peter Summerton’s competence will
have been brought to bear on the stag-
ing. A good work-out now, and
Independent should have a hit on their
hands.
Casting is fair enough, with Deryck
Barnes and Graham Rouse as the two
Air Force buddies giving strong male
color to their meaty words. The real
glory of the production though is the
acting by Miss Judith Arthy, a young
Queensland player, as Isabel. This is
something we’ve not seen in Sydney
circles for some time, an actress as pretty
as a doll, as fresh and artless and stunning
as a favorite daughter. For Miss Arthy
alone this evening would be worth-
while. Mr Williams’ play, as funny as
all getout, makes it one to remember.
KEVON KEMP
Crowded with Corpses
The White Devil. John Webster. Can-
berra Repertory Society.
'T'he Jacobeans are a heady brew. On
their stage, madness and the super-
natural jostle passion and murder in its
more exotic forms, and the actors are
hard put to make us believe in the reality
of these full- and blue-blooded charac-
ters. But if we do not believe, not all
Webster’s fine poetry is going to prevent
the feeling that they are figures in melo-
drama or perverts in fancy dress.
Fortunately, with Canberra Repertory's
production of “The White Devil” (pro-
ducer Alan Harvey) we did believe, at
least some of the time. The three main
parts were vitally played and intelligently
spoken: Alan Harvey, a passionate,
smouldering Brachiano; John Starey, a
truly Machiavellian Flamineo ; Elizabeth
Webb, a gracious and clever Vittoria.
But Webster’s play is too long, even when
cut, and the plot too intricate, dominated
neither by the fascination of Vittoria, the


PALMER HALL, STATE LIBRARY OF VICTORIA
Swans ton Street, Melbourne
18th-30th September
THROUGH BRITISH EYES
an exhibition of travel books and periodicals arranged by
THE BRITISH COUNCIL
Hours: Monday to Saturday, 10.00 a.m.—5.00 p.m. Admission free
scheming of Flamineo nor the revenge
of the Duke of Florence. His verse rises
to memorable passages, but its average
pattern is too figurative for quick com-
prehension, even when clearly spoken,
and he indulges too often in the moral
couplet beloved by his audience.
The production’s most praiseworthy
achievement was in its use of period stage
conventions. Here it profited from the
co-operation and specialised knowledge
of the University English Department.
By using the minimum of properties,
varied lighting and a small apron stage,
the scenes were put through with such
speed that improbabilities of plot and
character were swept away before we
could question them much. A highly
effective decor by Alan Jones emphasised
warm tones and elaborate costume in a
way which delighted the eye and con-
veyed perfectly the decadence of
Webster’s Italians.
Unfortunately, in the last act, belief
receded and melodrama and fancy dress
took over. Death claimed early the vital
Brachiano ; the sly Flamineo was too
long a-dying ; the small Rep. stage be-
came uncomfortably cluttered with
bodies ; and even the decor lapsed by
unaccountably clothing the widowed
Vittoria in purest scarlet and the Capu-
chin monks in red. The end did not
crown the play. However, the perform-
ance was an experience for which any-
one interested in the drama should be
grateful. With an intelligent adaptation
of Jacobean stage conventions, it gave a
chance to judge Webster’s play in per-
formance, after being for so long praised
from the library.
HOPE HEWITT
MUSIC
Cross the Border, M Tzipine
A lthough it is often said that the
French genius is classical in temper,
with clarity and formal precision both
strong in its make-up, it has occurred to
me more than once that a leaning towards
the classical is much less evident among
French performers than it is with French
composers. Hardly one of the great
names in the line of French conductors,
from Habeneck (whose Beethoven was
whipped by Berlioz) to the emigres Munch
and Monteux, has been celebrated for his
performances of classical music. Pasde-
loup, one of the few French conductors
who could be remembered alongside the
eminent Viennese masters who were his
contemporaries, seems to have dispensed
at times with the formality of making his
musicians tune together—a splendidly
romantic gesture, if anything could be!
Mr Tzipine, who has now almost com-
pleted fjis first season as resident con-
ductor in Melbourne, is a little less ex-
travagant. His orchestra tunes together,
and by habit he insists on their playing
together as well, so that instrumental
ensemble has probably been as marked
during this season as ever before —if we
except the interregnum of Galliera, whose
great authority was married to a miserably
small repertory.
But, for all that, Mr Tzipine has shown
a characteristically French and somewhat
romantic hand in the choice of his pro-
grammes. He has played us quite a num-
ber of minor French works, nearly all of
them welcome, and all without exception
performed with polished competence. I
would like to see this policy pushed even
further, so that we are given some of the
longer scores from nineteenth-century
France, and from other countries too.
This is the kind of exploration which
Goossens did so well while he was in
Sydney, though without much encourage-
ment from the reviewers. But in Mel-
bourne we have never had, I think, any
performance of the symphonies of Liszt,
or his rarer symphonic poems ; nor have
we heard the Berlioz “Romeo and Juliet”
which Goossens gave Sydney back about
1949.
Tn this kind of work Mr Tzipine should
shine since, without prejudice t.o their
quality as music, they demand of a per-
former more glitter and sophistication
than spiritual development. And
one of the side glances which might be
cast at Mr Tzipine’s programmes would
reveal that they seldom give him the
chance to match himself against cne of
those critical works which test the depth
of personality of its conductor. They
are programmes which tend to be made
up of shortish works, programmes which
skirt around the epic and fasten on the
lyric or the discursive.
It might be unjust to go on and specu-
late from this that Mr Tzipine could not
sustain a trial against Elgar's “Falstaff,"
or the ninth sympthony of Bruckner.
Only the greatest of conductors are
equipped to handle the whole of music ;
and, besides, the test has not been made.
But, if Mr Tzipine’s penchant is for the
smaller and less introspective masterpiece,
it would be a very pleasant thing to find
him moving across the French border and
rehearsing some of the great romantic
monuments of non-French Europe. We
need a gesture of this kind to counter-
balance his latest programme, in which
the carefully - performed “Music for
Springs and Percussion” of Bartok was
marooned amid a desolation of fragments.
KENNETH HINCE
FILMS
Seven Against
Thieves
The Magnificent Seven. Sturgess.
Sydney Regent.
TThis film is the biggest, toughest, tensest
Western in years. Its superiority lies
in a credible story, not completely realised
in every detail ; in grippingly authentic
Mexican settings, beautifully photo-
graphed ; in excellent characterisations,
by at least five members of the cast ; in
the sparing use of dialogue, and quite
exceptionally successful background
music ; but, above all. in the concentra-
tion on action directly related to the plot.
Unlike most films full of cowboy gun-
men, it is dramatic rather than melo-
dramatic. For the most part, even the
gun in hand is subordinated to the job
on hand and it is a real job. ‘‘The Mag-
nificent Seven*’ is really the story of a
civil war: farmers against nomad bandits.
There are plenty of examples in Mexico's
history of this kind of thing, with Pancho
Villa and his gang as the classic instance.
It affords a good script-writer and director
opportunities to go beyond action, to the
reasons for action: How should a free
man act in the face of superior violence?
How far should he league himself with
evil, to overcome a greater evil? When is
killing justified? Wiiliam Robert's screen-
play and John Sturgess’s imaginative
direction do not answer these questions
but the attempt to do so makes this a
good war film in miniature, as well as
a great Western.
As in all action stories an appeal is
made to courage and comradeship. What
again lifts “The Magnificent Seven” above
the common ruck is that neither is taken
for granted. The courage of “the seven”
is tested, step by step, in scenes as tense
as they are lacking in unnecessary
violence ; and the comradeship is allowed
to develop naturally from the testing.
Despite their heroics, Yul Brynner, Steve
McQueen, Robert Vaughn and James
Coburn are convincing heroes, maintain-
ing a nice balance between overt swagger
and inner doubt. The villain, played by
Eli Wallach, is also two-dimensional!y
plausible.
There are two weaknesses in an other-
wise brilliantly sustained show ; one is the
lack of uniformity in accents used by
some of the minor characters, passing for
Mexicans. The other is the overplaying
of a major role, by Horst Buchholz. He


BEST MOTEL IN ANY
TOWN IS ALWAYS THE
MOTEL
Comfortable, modern, quiet and with a friendly welcome, the Caravilla Motela
from Mackay to Tasmania are ideal places to stay. Whether you’re travelling by
road, rail or air; whether you’re stopping overnight or for longer plan your next
trip as a “Caravilla tour.”
SYDNEY. Caravilla Sunset Strip, Pittwater Rd., Mona Vale. 99-2509. (North
Shore seaside).
MELBOURNE. Caravilla Motel de Ville, Royal Pde., Parkville. FW9214 . . ,
and Caravilla, Dandenong Rd., Chadstone. 569-0656.
BRISBANE. Caravilla, Gympie Rd., Chermside. 59-1041.
Mackay, Maryborough, Warwick and Mermaid Beach (Gold Coast).
Armidale, Grafton, Pt. Macquarie, Taree, Belmont (Newcastle), Orange (2),
Parkes, Cowra, Wagga, Gundagai, Cooma, Griffith.
Wangaratta, Bairnsdale, Warrnambool.
Launceston, Devonport.
and beautiful
BRAMPTON ISLAND
Coral Island Paradise of the
Barrier Reef
BOOK through any Caravilla—or Carapark Reservation Centre, 681 Parramatta
Rd., Leichhardt, Sydney (LM0391), or at any Airline Office or Travel Agent.
y
FEDERATION
35
A CARAPARK ENTERPRISE
is both charming and talented, and gives
the film some of its best moments as a
young foil to the old stagers ; but he also
gives it a few let-downs, as a young fool
mistaking charm for talent.
ANTON VOGT
ART
As the Romans Do
Blaxland Gallery. Sydney. Anni-
versary Exhibition.
HThe Farmer’s Blaxland Gallery Anni-
versary Exhibition may not quicken
one’s aesthetic pulse overmuch, yet the
standard is high. Lenton Parr’s skilfully
organised metal sculptures are the show’s
highlights because of their assurance,
economy and craft. A fair number of the
paintings are, though not unduly iarge,
self-conscious efforts. However, the trend
towards the grandiose is not new in con-
temporary art. It has been described
as neo-Victorianism and probably reflects
an urge on the part of artists to be
heard in a world of increasing clamor.
Daryl Hill's tense forms drift across a
sweet and sour void in his “Stepping
Stones.” Nancy Borlase and Stan de
Teliga’s abstracts depend on carefully
chosen harmonies of color to amplify
simple rhythms. These three artists offer
subtle contra t to the aims of others
absorbed in the exploration of new
materials. Elwyn Lynn, for instance,
successfully uses leather, sand and rag
textures with a road map in his “Black
Track.” Max Fuerring brings us face
to face with grizzled bark on which
someone has carved his initials.
Flaccid spooks writhe listlessly in Eric
Smith’s “The Caves and the Spirits,” a
painting which falls well below the drama
or imagery of his recent “Voss” series.
Similarly the two works of Owen Tooth
borrow freely from the repertoire of
aboriginal forms. The difficulty is that
somehow in the process of adaptation
all the magic departs. These signs have
never run through our blood and perhaps
they never will. As our matter-of-fact
materialism is nearer that of the Romans,
we can hardly expect to find easy access
to insights as profound as those revealed
by aboriginal art. At best shadows are
evoked to achieve more or less interesting
decoration lacking any kind of relevance
or meaning.
Tanner’s cold crusty irony injects a
very personal note into a Kleeish essay
on lonely little men. A few figurative
works, looking a bit apologetic, line the
narrow entrance section of the gallery.
They include an Orban and a J. Carring-
ton-Smith. Other competent works,
ranging from the contemplative to the
firmly muscular, by G. Grey-Smith, P.
Laverty, R. Coles and S. Saxton, add
variety to the exhibition.
J. HENSHAW


The Red Page
Saving Marx from Marxism
By EUGENE KAMENKA
Marxism: An Historical and Critical
Study. George Lichtheim. Rout-
ledge and Kegan Paul. 60s.
li/fARx came to Communism in the
interests of freedom, not of security
or of financial equality. Initially, he
sought to free himself and his fellow
intellectuals from the pressure exercised
against them by the mediocre Prussian
police state of Frederick William IV. He
and his radical friends rejected its feudal-
ism, its censorship, its elevation of religion
and of authority, its cultural Philistinism
and its empty and hypocritical talk of
national interest and moral duty. They
strove foi the society that would have
been placed on a “rational” foundation.
In 1843, when Marx was 25, the wave of
newspaper repressions finally convinced
him of the utter impotence of the German
middle classes in general and of their
liberal sections in particular. A demo-
cratic revolution could only be achieved
with the active participation of the work-
ing class —the proletariat.
Politically Marx was nevertheless far
more than a middle-class Jacobin seeking
to use the working class for his own
middle-class aims. Marx’s vision of free-
dom was as incompatible with the profit
and loss account of the merchant and the
banker as it was with seigneurial rights
and feudal privileges. The free society
would be a revolutionised society in which
all the old social relations had com-
pletely disappeared. Intellectually, at the
same time, Marx was far more than a
well-intentioned Utopian airily proclaim-
ing the principles which society ought to
follow. The psychological impetus that
underlay his researches may have been
utopian : the critical method he developed
was not. The study of history, of socio-
logy, of macro-economics owe him a debt
that should never be forgotten. The
crudities of his disciples, including Engels,
should not be allowed to blind us to his
genius
The appeal of (a simplified version of)
Marx’s thought to the labor movement
of the late 19th century and early 20th
century unquestionably lay in this mix-
ture of moral utopianism and scientific
sociology. Many had portrayed the
dependence, the inhumanity and the
misery created by the industrial revolu-
tion and the ideology of economic laissez
faire. Of all those who looked forward
(or backward) to a society in which
human co-operation would replace the
cash nexus, only Marx had come fully
to terms with the industrial revolution.
History, which might seem to be crucify-
ing man, was in fact working for his
inevitable restoration. The industrial
revolution, which appeared to create
misery for the masses, would lead, by
its own internal logic, to their freedom
and satisfaction.
In recent years, there has been a con-
siderable revival of interest among
Western scholars in the great corpus of
Marx’s work, especially in his early
writings and in the recently-published
notes and drafts that he made in his
crucial working years between 1850 and
1859. The more one looks at this work,
the more it commands respect —and the
more it brings out the inadequacies and
crudities of the Marxist “systems” erected
in Marx's name.
The renewed growth of intellectual
admiration for Marx among serious
scholars is not accompanied by a renewed
growth of admiration for the intellectual
content of “Marxism,” either in its West
European, Social Democratic form, or in
its Soviet, Marxist-Leninist form. Marx-
ism interests us today as a historical
phenomenon or as the ideology of a
significant world-force; it does not in-
terest us, or command our respect, as
an intellectual system. Significantly, it
has become the ideology of backward
nations.
Mr Lichtheim sets out to explore the
historical context in which Marx’s thought
had its origins and the historical situations
in which Marxism has flourished, as well
as the reasons for “the dissolution of the
Marxist system” between 1918 and 1948.
He reminds us of the ideological heritage
with which Marx began, of the com-
ponents that entered into his synthesis of
German philosophy, French socialism
and English Ricardian economics, and of
the subtleties, ambiguities and changes of
view that develop in Marx’s work as it
meets the continual test of reality. “The
Communist Manifesto,” one must never
forget, was not a final summary of a life-
time of work and thought by the two
founders of Marxism; it was a brief,
political pamphlet written on the eve of
the 1848 risings by two young men at the
start, and not at the end, of their intellec-
tual and political quest. The concrete
revolution its authors were awaiting was
the democratic and not the socialist revo-
lution ; the collapse of capitalism which
Marx and Engels hoped might follow
this revolution did not materialise. Both
Marx and Engels came to realise that
their hopes had been premature: they
had mistaken the birth-pangs of capitalism
for its death-pangs. Marx became in-
creasingly cautious about the collapse of
capitalism and ever more aware of the
complexities of west European develop-
ments, though the Paris Commune in 1871
for a period revived his hopes that a
democratic revolution could be followed
by a working-class seizure of power.
Engels, especially after Marx’s death in
1883, became unmistakably “reformist,”
believing that democratic franchise made
possible the achieving of socialism by
democratic and parliamentary means.
There are thus two Marxisms in the
work of Marx and Engels: the doctrine
of revolution proclaimed in “The Com-
munist Manifesto” and the parliamentary,
social democratic Marxism toward which
Marx seemed at times to tend and which
Engels came to espouse fairly clearly.
Mr Lichtheim traces the further develop-
ment of both for us: the revisionist con-
troversy over such seemingly central issues
as the increasing pauperisation of the
proletariat, and the concentration of capi-
tal in fewer and fewer hands ; the Austro-
Marxist linking of monopoly capitalism
and imperialism, and Lenin’s use of this
to make Marxism a creed with totally
new overtones. Lenin could inject life
into the Marxist doctrine of revolution,
Mr Lichtheim argues, precisely because
Russia’s situation in 1917 was more like
the situation in Europe in 1848 than in
the Europe of the 20th century.
“In the 20th century,” Mr Lichtheim
concludes, “Marxism suffers the fate of
liberalism: it is found wanting as a
theory of post-bourgeois society, which
no longer has a single centre, and whose
increasingly rigid structures resist the
drive toward social equality and the uni-
fication of physical and intellectual
labor. In the light of these conditions,
Marx’s humanism comes to appear
utopian, while his political programme
is travestied by totalitarian regimes in the
pre-industrial hinterland of the modern
world. The supposed totality of Com-
munism reveals itself as a grotesque dis-
tortion of industrial society, as it exists
everywhere of necessity under the con-
ditions of the modern age.
“At the same time the reduction of
democratic socialism to the modest
dimensions of an essay in economic
planning destroys the mystique of a move-
ment which had identified its coming
triumph with the emancipation of man-
kind from the reign of bondage.” Marx-
ism thus “disintegrates as a system,
though it retains its importance as a tool
of analysis.” Paradoxically, its sharpest
edge is now turned against the illusory
claims made by regimes purporting to
speak with its voice.


WHAT HAVE YOU READ
OF SWEDENBORG ?
“Thf moral insight of Swedtnborg, the cor-
rection of popular errors, the announcement
of ethical laws, take him out of comparison
with any other modern writer, and entitle
him fo a place, vacant for some ages, among
the lawgivers of mankind.” — Ralph Waldo
Emerson.
Not only does Emerson refer to the'Sweden-
borg Writings as "the most remarkable step
in the religious history of redent ages,” he
suggests that even those who-have never heard
of them have been influenced by their teach-
ings. Says he: “These truths passing out of
his system into, general circulation, are now
met with every day. qualifying flip views and
creeds of all churches, and of men of no
ehurcli.”
Another writer echoes' this: “As the genial
ocean streams imperceptibly warm • and
invigorate our shores, so the influence of
Swedenborg’s 'thought has for a hundred years
been thawing and warming the bleak theology
of the middle ages. Ills writings are today
tile prime influence beating down the wall of
irrationality, making way for a faith that
appeals at once fo .reason and to the heart”
Edwin Markham (author of “The Man With
The Hoe”).
But it is astonishing how few people know
anything of the ,Swedenborg Writings. Said
John Bigelow (former United States Ambassa-
dor) upon reading a book about Swedenborg:
“Sly first feeling when I laid it down was of
mingled surprise and mortification that I hail
lived till then in such dense ignorance of the
career and work of so remarkable a man.”
If you would like to buy ail excellent (in
my opinion the best) biography of Sweden-
borg. with a thorough description of lus
works, send ten shillings.
“SWEDENBORG. LIFE AND
TEACHINGS”
by G. Trobridge. 290 pages.
I 0/- (post free) .
Rev. D. L. Rose, 86 Laycock Rd.,
Hurst, ille, N.S.W.
Where White is Black
Search for a Sultan. Manning Coles.
Hodder and Stoughton. 15s.
The Africans. Robert Lait. Thomas
C. Lothian. 15s.
Ride the Volcano. Peter Pinney. Angus
and Robertson. 18s. 9d.
The Cultured Pearl. Macdonald Hull.
Hammond Hammond. 18s. 9d.
“C'earch for a Sultan” is the twenty-
fourth thriller by Manning Coles and
though a flippant—and often amusing—
story it is about a serious and topical
subject.
“Which means,” said the representa-
tive from the Foreign Office, summing
up, “that when the Sultan, who is over
eighty, dies, we shall not only be thrown
out of Qathuan lock, stock and barrel,
and the British-American capital which
has been sunk in developing the oil-
fields lost, but also that we shall have a
rabid enemy at the very gates of
Aden .
And so Tommy Hambledon begrns his
search for a sultan. A search that takes
him into all the predicaments and
adventures that we would expect in the
Middle East, today: glamorous spies,
rich and scheming sheiks, daggers, cor-
rupt police, Arab nationalism and
inefficient foreign diplomats.
All the ingredients to create a first-
rate thriller-with-a-message and Coles
gives the reader just that. The excite-
ment and denouement are sufficient to
satisfy the most fastidious. A light-
hearted thriller, enjoyable and well
written.
In “The Africans” Robert Lait makes
his blacks too white, and his whites too
black. It would have been a novel just
short of brilliant had he allowed his
characters to have blood in their veins
instead of being figures in a Yacoubie
ben Driss painting. But, for all that, it
is.powerful, written wih horrifying know-
ledge of what is going on between black
and white in the still-to-be-free countries
of Africa.
Peter Pinney could be described as an
author-adventurer since for a dozen
years he has travelled the world and
written prolifically and proficiently about
his experiences. “Ride the Volcano” is
his first attempt at fiction, but for me
he has not succeeded ; there is too much
descriptive fact for it to be a novel and
too much fiction for one to be able to
call it a travelogue.
He must carry on with his usual factual
writing or completely escape from a
world of smugglers, primitive Indians,
ruthless criminals, strong seas and the
violence of the elements. That is, if he
wishes to be a novelist. Now he has
returned to Sydney 1 look forward to
Pinney (a challenge as demanding as any
he has faced) writing a novel not about
San Bias Indians but San Souci indigents.
Macdonald Hull, in “The Cultured
Pearl,” has ventured deep behind the
bamboo curtain and beyond the gloss of
Tokyo’s cosmopolitan pseudo-Western-
isms to bring into focus the real Japanese
culture. This is a penetrating novel
about the friction and attraction between
alien culture:. It is composed with
candor and care, but the author does not
always make allowance for the fact that
the majority of his readers have not been
to Japan.
DANIEL MARTIN SMITH
Short , Cool Spring
The Spring. Ilya Erenburg. Translated
by Humphrey Higgins. Macgibbon
and Kee. 18s.
nPHE first part of Ilya Erenburg's novel
1 “The Thaw" appeared in 1954 and
gave its name ,to the upheaval in Soviet
literature which reached its peak in 1956.
In that year, the second part was pub-
lished, and it is this part which Humphrey
Higgins has translated under the title of
“The Spring”
Official Soviet criticism has disowned
“The Thaw.” The latest volume of the
‘■History of Russian Soviet Literature”
describes it as an unsuccessful attempt
to reflect the events which occurred
during the struggle against the personality
cult, that is to say the period immediately
following the death of Stalin, in which
tiie author failed because he concentrated
too much on the private lives of his
characters, his heroes turning out to be
poor, weak creatures with no place in
Soviet life.
One can hardly accept that his charac-
ters are not dose to Soviet reality.
Soviet literature since 1954 has been full
of characters akin to those of Erenburg,
whose portrait gallery in “The Thaw"
i s extremely comprehensive. Therefore,
the variety of these people and their back-
ground have for the reader of today lithe
novelty they J; ad for leaders live
y ears What is still of interest is
Erenbuigs study of the minds of his
characters and their personal relatron-
ships 1,1 a P enod bewildering changes.
1 hey find themselves suddenly In a society
from which the control which guided
their whole existence has been remove
and are forced to worx out foi them-
selves new standards of behavior,
“The Spring” does not carry the argu-
ment of “The Thaw" much further. The
starting-point of each is a crisis of con-
science experienced by an engineer, Koro-
teyev. The crisis in the first part is one
of private feelings: he speaks at a readers’
conference against the plausibility of a
fictional hero's behavior, believing that
no one would give way to emotions in
such a way, and then discovers that he
can only resolve the awkward situation
which exists between himself and the
woman he loves by yielding to his feel-
ings in the same way as the character
he has condemned. In a similar way,
other estranged lovers come together by
breaking down gradually their stubborn
refusal to share their feelings each with
the other —a process which takes place
against the symbolic background of the
period between the Russian winter and
spring when the ice begins to thaw. The
industrial theme, the dismissal of the
factory manager Zhuravlev, does no
more than stress that relationships are
changing, not only among individuals, but
at a national level.
“The Spring"’ has a more familiar ring.
Koroteyev has to correct a false step in
his public life —an insincere vote at a
party meeting, and the characters who
have been resolving their personal prob-
lems are now faced in their work by diffi-
culties caused by the attitude of officials
who cling to the Staiinist way of doing
things. In this, the second part closely
resembles the “industrial novels” which
have become familiar to us since “Not-by-
bread-alone.”
Erenburg does* however, develop in
“The Spring” a theme which is of extreme
interest to us today, and especially to
those who wish to understand why
Russian art so often appals us. Eren-
burg is a writer of many disguises, but
he is genuinely concerned with the fate


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. “D.” Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.O. Sydney.
of art in the Soviet Union. His memoirs,
the first part of which were published
recently, contain many sensible (or sub-
versive, depending on one’s point of
view) comments on Soviet art and official
policy towards it. His pronouncements
on art carry such weight that he was held
by one critic in 1959 to “bear part of the
moral responsibilty for characteristic
features,” a term which in Soviet jargon
usually means impermissible features, of
an exhibition by young painters.
Hence, his clever pen portrait of the
young artist Pukhov acquires a special
interest. Pukhov in “The Thaw” is a
painter who, as a gifted beginner, becomes
celebrated by adhering to the doctrine of
Socialist realism and following the ex-
ample of leading Soviet artists in paint-
ing mechanically such “ideologically
correct” subjects as “Workshop meeting”
and “Pioneers round a camp-fire,” know-
ing full well that he was painting rubbish
but justifying himself to others, and often
even to himself, by pointing out that
“Everyone paints rubbish, only a few
won t understand that.” Pukhov himself
experiences a thaw and, logically enough,
the end of “The Thaw” finds him happy
that the real art of his friend Saburov,
one of those who “would not understand,”
has been recognised. The further actions
of Pukhov, contrasted with those of
Saburov, form the centrepiece of “The
Spring,” and the fate of the artist crippled
by his acceptance of false standards in art
is one of Erenburg’s most damaging
criticisms of the atmosphere in the Soviet
Union.
“The Spring” cannot be recommended
to anyone who has not read “The Thaw,”
since so much of it would not be easy
to follow for a reader with no knowledge
of “The Thaw,” but anyone who has read
“The Thaw,” should certainly read it.
They will find the present translation
competent and accurate, though it fails,
I think, to reproduce the elegance of
Erenburg’s language,
ROSH IRELAND
Father Confessor to Himmler
The Magic Touch, Joseph Kessel.
Translated from the French by
Denise Folliot. Rupert Flart-Davis.
20s.
“/ r 'VUR Study [of History]”, remarked
Burckhardt a hundred years
ago, “will in a certain sense be patho-
logical.” If that great historian of Renais-
sance tyrants and treachery could be with
us today, he might not have been unduly
surprised by the relationship between
Hitler’s Reichsfuehrer of the S.S., Hein-
rich Himmler, and his masseur, Felix
Kersten. But perhaps even Burckhardt
would have been astonished to find the
Finnish therapist remaining benevolent in
extremely malevolent surroundings, a
practising humanist among a macabre
Order of Twentieth Century Teutonic
Knights and Executioners.
“Dr Kersten massages a life out of me
with every rub,” Himmler was once over-
heard to sigh Paradoxically the remark
has proved to be correct. It is this fact
which makes the strong skilful hands of
Kersten and his personality of some
relevance to the historian. And it is the
reason why, as Professor Trevor-Roper
says in his foreword, he is entitled “to
a smail place in the history of the war,
to a small niche in the temple of fame.”
Heinrich Himmler, overlord of the
Gestapo, an obscure offspring of genera-
tions of Bavarian police officials and
teachers, was basically a weak man wish-
ing to be tough. A repulsive mixture of
bureaucrat and militarist romantic, he
had touches m him of a Wallenstein and
a Robespierre. Serving Hitler with near,
but not absolute blind obedience, he
regarded the people under him either as
potential rivals to be watched with the
utmost suspicion, or as non-political
“experts.” The cosmopolitan Kersten, a
very fat man, with placid bearing, gentle
eyes and a good-humored sensuous mouth
came under the second category. Able
through massage to alleviate greatly
Himmler’s chronic stomach cramps, he
earned his appreciation and confidence.
There were in fact, it seems, two Himm-
lers, the one with the mind of a very
ordinary German middle-class civilian, a
type who in a “normal” non-totalitarian
society would have passed as a com-
petent manager of a farm or mayor of
a small town ; the other a callous and
ruthless tyrant intoxicated with potted
romantic images culled from German
history. Living in constant awe of Hitler
as his infallible super-tyrant, Himmler
was ill at ease with human beings but
very much at ease behind his desk.
It is grotesque to see how the effective
masseur managed to become father-con-
fessor of his employer and to play on
Himmler’s vanity and longing for im-
mortality in a glorious Walhalla. While
Himmler lay on the doctor’s couch, groan-
ing with pain, Kersten wheedled far-reach-
ing concessions for his proteges out of
him. Soothing his nerves he assured him
that in a thousand years history would
still acknowledge the generosity of this
great Germanic leader. In 1941 Kersten,
who had close Dutch contacts and had
earlier treated the husband of Queen
Wilhelmina, succeeded in persuading
Himmler to shelve a dismal scheme to
punish the Dutch people for their resist-
ance by transporting them wholesale to
the Polish province of Lublin. After the
war a special commission set up by the
Dutch Government established the fact
that “Kersten had saved thousands of
“I’m going home to professor !”
lives of all nationalities, on numerous
occasions and at great personal risk and
expense, besides saving Dutch people
from transportation, Dutch art treasures
from confiscation and Dutch cities and
installations from destruction.”
Early in 1945 Kersten acted as a go-
between for the Swedish Foreign Minister
Guenther and Himmler, making possible
a Swedish Relief Expedition under Count
Folks Bernadotte which rescued thousands
of Scandinavians and Jews from death in
concentration camps. Himmler prob-
ably allowed this behind Hitler’s back—
and even a visit to him by a Swedish
representative of the World Jewish Con-
gress—as he still had a glimmer of hope
to come to terms with the victorious
Western Allies.
M. Kessel interviewed the late Dr
Kersten and also had access to his docu-
ments. Whilst his book is pleasingly
written in a novel-like manner, it is less
to be relied on than Kersten’s own
“Memoirs,” of which an English selec-
tion was published in 1956. To give
only one example of the author’s methods:
however much Himmler may have trusted
Kersten, it is improbable that he used
these words: “Oh, please, forgive me my
dear Kersten! The bad habits I have
caught from those around me made me
speak without thinking. If only I could
trust everyone as I did you.”
In fact Kessel describes the relation-
ship for the man in the street, without
explaining it to the historian. Kersten
himself is more explanatory than his
biographer. “Because he [Himmler] was
utterly cut off from his natural roots and
needed someone on whom to lean” —runs
a passage in the “Memoirs” —“he was
happy to have a man beside him who
had no connection with the Party hier-
archy, somebody who was simply a human
being. At such moments I was able to
appeal to him successfully.”
ERNEST BRAMSTED


POEMS
THE BOTANIST
[Baron Ferdinand von Muller]
I
Because of Latin tags and citizens
He left with books, was banished from his garden,
Denied that Eden of his work and choice,
With labels on the trees to tell the world,
He only sulked in dreams when flowers grew
With nameless stems.
For years he’d moved alone
In search of life to catalogue—but soon
He learnt the quaint extent of flowers, shrubs
Which only he could name.
II
He saw Australia as a paradox:
His vision found an Eden where the plants
Might kill, the sun might melt his waxy frame
And leave his arrogance to waste in dust.
His clothes were symbols fools could wear to mock
The ignorant, and yet he did not care:
He saw an Eden to be plucked from darkness,
That all those citizens would never see
For this was never “home.”
He had no home
Except an innocence which tantalised,
Which hung and said it must return one day:
Now Sunday crowds walk through the public
gardens,
Flutter like paper across the ageing lawns.
111
Speculation and conjecture move each mind
To seek, to plant “a garden of science” where
Life’s personal and fixed, though foolish
To citizens who have no eyes at all.
IV
Now failures meet his ghost at every turn,
And then he labels them with love and grins.
This is a drought he did not understand
When he was made to live alone with flesh
And facts.
So men are judged by acts and words
Which they’d inter, forget within some soil
That’s out of sight and mind to citizens.
He never thought he might become a ghost
Held by a tree whose label fades with loss.
R. A. SIMPSON
SWART AT EVENING
Long-limbed ; sceptre of office
The old sjambok ;
Hands held alternate acres
In their grip through seasons.
Abortive apricots and cabbages
Patterned his days, and cattle
Stamped his mark in river banks,
As years before they pioneered
A spindle paradise.
Sombre on the headed hill
At nightfall, with the bats’ wing flutter,
Sits the leader of the race of sober men,
Impatient at the sun's last brilliance
And aching for a Darker Africa.
WILLHELM HIENER
JUDGMENT DAY
A spectre woke and peered out from his grave
To see half-open tombs and, high above,
A face that calculated as it watched.
He did not know why sleep had been unlatched.
Until he saw again the paintings, scenes
Of kinder Judgment Days in blues and greens
That would express much more than colors can.
He stood up in his grave, a living man,
Expecting sad but superhuman eyes
To recognise his guilt and yet be wise.
Without delay, conveyors rose through air,
And shadows stood upon the moving stair.
Nearing light, God became mechanical
As wheels revolved to gauge the human fall
From innocence, and numbers soon assessed
What thin commodities should then be blessed.
R. A. SIMPSON
NOVELIST
Finding the world impossible, he made his own
Tenderer and truer than any he had known:
Faced without pain illusory alarms,
Holding his heroine in his hero’s arms.
Fate caught him napping, as the story ended
With her more real than even he intended:
Now he must share her bright delight with those
Who read his execrable prose.
ANTON VOGT
ITALIANATE
Leaf-smoke and autumn light of afternoon
Burn red on gravel, where a tilted cone
Of shadow, arching blue, has halfway thrown
Measured eclipse on path and border, soon
To deflect sunlight from the marigolds.
Still though, the garden is Italian:
Red gum to beech, banksia to olive can
Transmute their nature while the daylight holds.
But cold October’s customary edge,
Barbed with bright Alps, on vineyard, rivered plain
Descends to blast the farmer’s flowering hedge:
And gum-trees, branched with broken gold, regain
Base metal of a sunless foliage
While leaf-smoke drifts, now grey as winter rain.
PHILIP ARMSTRONG
THE LOCAL BOGEYMAN
Here the curious observer traces
likeness in a cheek to bark of mulgas,
constructs by outline hardly-human faces.
He notes the hairs that dawdle round and in
and behind each ear. It’s easy to envisage
how local rumors have their origin.
Between his crumpled temples poverty
has battered creases. A bride’s concupiscence
re-set his eyes. And likewise puberty
—when early feared as sinful —mapped the slope
of lip. And still, poor man, no marks of laughter
crinkle him, nor any sign of hope.
RODNEY HALL


The only hope of getting ord
Michaecos to do the right thing by his
daughters was to shame him into it
OLD Alexis Michaelos took a goat to Darwin Hospital
one morning to have it operated on for the recovery
of a sum of money in notes and gold and silver that
it was supposed to have found in a nest in the fowl-
house and consumed. The sum was not stated, but could
not have been inconsiderable when one so poor as old
Alexis confessed to be would begin by offering the doctor
£5 for the job and end with £5O.
The event caused much amusement, because it took
place before a crowd of waiting outpatients, many of whom
picked up their hats and left without consulting the doctor,
going to prove the old adage that laughter is the best of
all medicines.
Much of the laughter was caused by Alexis’s efforts
to keep the matter a secret between himself and the doctor
while he fought to hold the goat. The doctor, tickled,
advised him to kill the beast and so save the expense of the
operation and have mutton for a week into the bargain.
The old fellow cried that he could never kill his Alexan-
drina because she was one of the family. His pleading with
the doctor was cut short by Alexandrina’s breaking away.
The best laugh of all was had from the race round the
hospital verandahs and out into the ground and away, with
Alexandrina blaring defiance and Alexis, who was some-
what crippled, hobbling after her screaming entreaties in
Greek.
Among the patients who witnessed the event were
Alexis’s cousin, Petrous Constandino, and Petrous’s son
Constani. They were also among those who had left with-
out seeing the doctor: though this they did not through
being relieved of the ills that had brought them to the hospi-
tal, but because their minds had been diverted from these
same by the import of events. In fact, they had not laughed
at all, but had been at pains to avoid being identified with
Alexis, of whom they were ashamed at any time. When
the import dawned on them, in spite of their ills they fairly
sprinted home.
By noon the whole Greek community had heard of the
affair. They had a good laugh over it in that quarter,
too. But soon the laughter of the Greeks was succeeded by
serious discussion. For there was reason for astonishment in
it, too. It was not the fact that Alexis had taken a goat to
the hospital. Many of the old people of the community
were simple enough to believe that a doctor would operate
on a goat as soon as a human being. Nor was it the revela-
tion that he kept money in his fowl-house. For few of the
older generation had learned to trust banks as repositories
for their savings, being for the most part people from the
islands of the eastern Mediterranean, whose homes had
been plundered by corsairs from time immemorial and
whose valuables they had had to guard with their lives.
What better sentry could one set over his little horde than
a broody hen sitting within earshot? A good Greek’s fowl-
house is, of course, always a part of his own dwelling. The
reason for the astonishment was the revelation that old
Alexis had any money at all.
By mid-afternoon the news was going round that the
goat, Alexandrina, was dead. The Vyanoses, who lived
on the right of the Michaeloses, and the Apostoleruses,
who lived on the left, reported that they had heard the
sounds of slaughter and that the deed was done by Alexis
and his wife Kristina.
This news had just reached the house of cousin


...A SHORT STORY BY XAVIER HERBERT
Petrous Constandino, where it was being excitedly dis-
cussed when Petrous’s brother, Tasus, burst in with several
members of his own family to report that he himself had
seen Alexis furtively pegging out a goat’s skin at the back
of the beach.
There ensued an excited family conference. How
much money had the late Alexandria consumed and
digested? it must have been a lot, since Alexis had offered
the doctor £SO. They asked that question over and over.
But the one most often asked was: Had there been other
money in the fowl-house beyond even the appetite of a
goat? For the family were reminded of a certain legacy
about which much had been said some little time back but
which, with no evidence of its having become a reality,
had been forgotten ... a grand bit of money, if what had
been hinted had any truth in it, amounting even to thous-
ands. that old Kristina had been said to be expecting to
come into with the death of a brother of hers down in
Brisbane.
Kristina’s brother, a bachelor, a good-for-nothing in
the general opinion, a flash type, a gambler, chucking
money about one week, broke the next, had been dead
about a year. He had visited Darwin a couple of times;
each time boasting that he was about to put up the dowries
necessary for the marriage of his nieces. Helena and
Stravula. Alexis’s and Kristina’s only children, but only to
have to leave in a hurry to dodge the debts he’d made.
The Michaeloses were about the poorest of the Greek
community. Neither Alexis nor Kristina had ever been
frugal as most. Perhaps it was because of Alexis’s
hazardous calling. He had been a diver, originally a sponge-
diver in the Mediterranean. In Darwin he had worked
the dangerous harbor deeps till the bends got him. since
when he had lived on a small pension. As even the modern
Greeks clung to the old custom of marriage dowries, there
had never been much hope of marrying oft Helena and
Stravula without some such windfall as had been hoped
for from Uncle Thanasis, the gambler.
If they had been beauties, most likely they could have
beaten the custom: but as it was, even such physical
attractiveness as they might have had was marred by their
habitual expressions of resentment of their condition. It
wasn’t fate they blamed for their condition, but their
parents, as they told everybody.
Earlier on it had been more or less understood that
eventually the girls would marry their second cousins.
Constani and Niko. sons of Alexis’s cousins, the brothers
Constandino. for the reason that it was through the gener-
osity of Alexis that Petrous and Tasus. penniless as they had
been in their beginnings, had got to Australia and into
the degree of affluence they now enjoyed. Alexis and
Kristina had even shared their humble roof with the brothers
and their broods till they were able to build homes for
themselves. But those good old brotherly days were gone
long since, and as far as the Constandinos were concerned,
apparently, forgotten—except for a spell when the ruimurs
were rife a year or so ago that Uncle Thanasis had died m
one of his periods of opulence.
During that spell things had been lively for the
Michaelos girls as never in their dull and dowdy lives
before. Such was the interest of the youths of the com-
munity. money being rather tight at the time and jobs
It looked as if A lexis
would suffer apoplexy.


scarce, that two had fought over the girls so desperately
that one had gone to hospital and the other to Fanny Bay
Jail.
When that happy period ended through lack of evidence
of the legacy, Stravula and Helena were left bitterer than
ever. They had never been what is called good children.
They seemed to think themselves somehow superior to their
parents. Because they had done little housework, they had
become very accomplished as needle-women, but being
lazy, made little use of their talent. After the last disap-
pointment they had done nothing more than lie about,
grizzling about their lot, abusing their parents if chided.
Irksome as their spinsterhood was to themselves, it was
even worse to their suffering mother and father. As old
Alexis sometimes said privily to Kristina, if only the island
they came from had been in the Turkish region instead of
the Greek, they might have drowned the pair with impunity
at birth.
Such was the condition of the Michaelos family, as
generally known, when suddenly the greed of their goat
revealed it as being something very different from what
was supposed. While Alexis pinched his family along on
the pittance that was his pension he had money hidden in
his fowl-house! How much money? How long hidden?
Had he in old age turned from being a locusta, a spend-
thrift, into a ... a ... the terrible truth smote the brothers
Constandino so that they shouted in chorus: “Michaelos is
a chinginis —a miser!”
He must, they decided, have got that legacy from
Thanasis after all—and hidden it away, hoarded it, simply
to gloat over. It was worse than vice. It was criminal.
For that money had been promised as dowries for the girls
—and the girls were betrothed to their own sons, to Niko
and Constani.
There could be no doubt about it. The brothers recalled
many instances of late that pointed to a difference in the old
man’s behavior, a certain slyness, avoidance of people. At
first they fumed to think of that good money only enrich-
ing a hen-house, declaring that they ought to go right round
and bawl the old miser out before his daughters and tell
them that they would help them to get their rightful portions
even if it meant recourse to the law.
Then they changed their tune. What was there to prove
he had a hoard, what law to make him produce it? When
all was said and done, his daughters were his heiresses.
And wasn’t he a sick old man? He couldn’t last many more
years with the bends as bad as he had them. At last they
said: “Let’s go visit our cousin. We haven’t been in his
house for a long while.”
They went that very evening, with their families.
Stravula and Helena were thrown into quite a flutter
by the influx of visitors. Not so their parents. Kristina
was withdrawn and Alexis surly. Only the prattling of the
girls kept the situation from becoming embarrassing.
They talked commonplace, till Petrous inquired what
was in the calico bag hanging out there on the back
verandah Both Helena and Stravula answered, saying that
poor Alexandrina had fallen over the cliff down to the sea
and had had to be killed. The astonishment of the visitors
at the simple answer was such that they gaped at the girls,
who gaped back at them.
The visitors turned from the girls to each other, but
not gaping now, instead looking knowing.
So the old foxes were keeping the knowledge that they
had money from the girls!
Petrous turned his knowing glance on Alexis and
voiced what he reckoned he knew with an expressive: “Ah!”
Alexis dropped his eyes, shuffled his feet, wrung his
hands, looking the thoroughgoing miser. Then to hide his
discomfort he shrilled at Kristina: “Go get qahveah, wife!”
The Constandinos talked rapidly of the virtues of the
late Alexandrina as they had known her, seeking to lighten
the burden of her owner’s loss of her by suggesting that
she was still of an age to make good eating. Only the girls
responded.
The situation was saved somewhat by the return of
Kristina with the strong, sweet Turkish coffee and the cold
water to wash it down.
But the ease was only temporary. When silence fell
again for want of a subject Alexis snarled: “Well, what are
you here for?”
The others fidgeted.
Alexis glared under bushy white brows.
Tasus and Petrous together repeated what they had
said on arrival, that they had just dropped in to see how
their cousins were getting along.
Alexis growled: “Not for nothing, I’ll be bound!”
Petrous protested with dignity: “It is our duty as
kinsmen . . .”
“Bah! Much you thought about your kinsmen after
you got what,you wanted out of them!”
Petrous cried: “Cousin, you're unjust. We’ve been pre-
occupied with our own families and affairs . .
“And now you’re trying to pry into mine!”
There was a babble of protest from the visitors.
Alexis cut it short, demanding: “Tell me what you
want of me and have done with it.”
There was silence, till Petrous said. “Well, cousin, it's
about our children, actually .. . your girls, our sons ..”
“What about ’em?”
“Well, they’re betrothed and they're not getting any
younger.”
“None of us is getting any younger.”
“True . . . but you have to consider your girls. They
ought to have been married long ago . .
“Whose fault is it they’re not?”
“Well, cousin, there are formalities . . .”
“Formalities aren’t troubling me. As far as I’m con-
cerned your sons can marry my daughters tonight.”
Embarrassed silence.
Alexis, shooting up his shaggy brows demanded:
“Well?”
Petrous stammered: “But . . . but . . .”
Tasus, always the blunt one. cut in. despite the kick
he got under the table from his brother: “There's the matter
of dowries.”
Alexis cried: “They can have the goat for a dowry
between them. You reckoned she would be good eating.
You’d save on the wedding festa.”
Some of the company expressed hurt disapproval with
tut-tutting.
Alexis added: “Because that’s all the dowry I can
afford to give.”
Petrous protested: “Come, cousin!”
Then the blunt Tasus spoke again: “Listen. Alexis,
everybody knows you’ve got money now. Why waste time
pretending poverty?”
Alexis leapt from his chair: “Me got money . me?”
“Yes ... a hoard of money.”
“Schisi . . . you’re mad!”
“It’s you who are mad if you think you can hood-
wink us any longer with your poor-crying . . .”
“Diavolo thellus . . . you’d insult me in my own house?”
Petrous was dragging at his brother, hissing at him to
be tactful. The girls were standing gaping. Old Kristina
had slipped behind her man.
Alexis went on shouting: “Out of my house, you
spongers!”
Tasus shouted back: “You call us spongers when you
say you have no money!”
“I call you dogs, I call you vipers!”


s ’And we call you chinginis—a miser!”
“Out of my house!”
Tasus. hoarse now. turned to the girls: “Your father is
a miser. He grinds you down in poverty, he keeps you
from your promised husbands while he hoards money in
his fowl-house, your money, the legacy your Uncle Thanasis
left your mother to be used as your dowries . . .”
It looked as if Alexis would have leapt at Tasus, but
Kristina held him back. It looked as if Alexis was being
taken with an apoplexy.
Petrous would have dealt with his brother, too. only
Tasus flung him off, continuing, his voice in rags, still
addressing the girls, though he kept his long finger flung at
their father: “You think the goat died with a broken leg.
It didn’t. It was killed because it ate a large sum of money
it found in the fowl-house, so much money that your father
offered the doctor £5O to operate on it ... it might have
been a thousand pounds. There might be thousands more
that the goat didn’t find ... in there.” Petrous’s shaking
finger swung to that part of the house beyond the kitchen
used as the fowl-house, “in there under the chooks . ...”
“Liar!” screamed Alexis. “Liar. liar, liar!”
“Prove I’m a liar by letting me search the fowl-house.”
“Over my cold cadaver!”
Tasus turned back to the girls: “You search for it. It’s
your right, your money!”
He stepped towards the girls as if to push them through.
But Alexis came rushing, brandishing a chair, scream-
ing: “Robbers, thieves, assassins!”
The visitors and the girls retreated before him. collided
with a small crowd gathered on the front verandah demand-
ing to know what was going on.
Screaming maledictions. Alexis slammed the front door
on the lot of them, locked it. went rushing through to lock
the back.
No attempt was made to enter. The Constandinos
gave their attention to explaining the situation to the
neighbors, while Stravula and Helena stood in the midst
of the gathering weeping for their wicked illusage. There
was general sympathy for the girls, although they had never
been much liked before. Women were tut-tutting and
saying: “The poor dears . . . the life they’ve led. and now
just when their chance comes that old thing goes off his
rocker and becomes a chinginis. The old woman must be
just as bad. too.”
For a while there were sounds of great activity in
the Micnaelos house, which included the squawking of hens,
causing the people outside to remark that old Alexis was
changing the hiding place of his hoard. Then the lights
went out: and there was silence.
The girls would have had to hammer to get back inside.
They didn't try. They said they were afraid to go in now
that they’d discovered that their father was a miser. Petrous
offered to take them to his place. However, the ladies
present said that wouldn’t be proper, seeing that Helena
was betrothed to Constani. Mrs Kyrozopolis offered to take
them in for the night. They went with her weeping.
Before the Constandinos retired they held another
family conference that lasted till midnight. The outcome
of it was the decision that the only hope they had of getting
the old fox to do the right thing by his daughters was to
shame him into it. It was a deep disgrace for any Greek
worthy of the name to be unable or unwilling to provide his
daughters with their dos. But it would be useless their
approaching him again, thanks to the tactlessness of Tasus.
They would call in Papas Gregorius, the priest.
Such was the state of things in the Michaelos house-
hold next day. what with the girls shrieking without cessa
tion of being robbed of their dowries and old Alexis shout
ing at them for tramps who stayed out all night and
Kristina snivelling behind her black apron, that Father Gre-
gorius came not simply as a mentor but as a sheer relief.
The holy man’s great voice was heard before his large
person was observed in the low doorway: “Peace be upon
this house . . . peace. 1 say!”
Stooping low, not simply to get his six feet and more
inside but to do so without knocking off the extra foot or
so of ecclesiastical stove-pipe that so much added to his
dignity, he entered. He stood in full magnificence before
them, black-gowned to the feet, pulling with jewelled
fingers at one fork of his great grey beard, fixing the cower-
ing sinners with fierce black eyes, thundering so that the
possums sleeping in the ceiling woke and went scampering
out: “What is this 1 hear of the laying up of treasure for
moth and rust to corrode and thieves to break in upon and
steal, of daughters being denied their marriage portions, of
daughters deserting the paternal roof to sleep beneath the
roofs of others . . . what is all this I hear? Tell me!”
Alexis was reverential enough, but would admit no
misdemeanor. He was a poor man, he declared, a crippled
pensioner, and had done only what he could for his
daughters, whose ingratitude was indeed sharper than
a serpent’s teeth.
Father Gregorius asked: “If. then, you are as poor
as you say. my son. how comes it that your ill-fated goat
was able to make that meal of money which proved to be
her last?”
Alexis looked trapped.
The priest seated himself and went on quietly to talk
of the responsibility of a father to his daughters, his duty
so to endow them that they might do him credit in their
generation and raise up a living monument to his nobility
for posterity. The deep dulcet priestly tones and their
import caused the females to weep unrestrainedly. Not
so as regards the old reprobate male. who. when the jewelled
white hand at last permitted interruption, cried: “1 am
prepared to give these baggages of mine a dos apiece . . .
but the fathers of the louts who want to husband them are
demanding fortunes as if they were princesses.”
The papas said quietly: “No one is asking more than
you can afford in dos. What can you afford, my son?”
“A hundred pounds between them.”
“I do not ask what you are prepared to pay. but what
you can pay, and 1 demand your answer on solemn oath.”
Old Alexis looked the true chinginis as he shuffled and
slewed his eyes and wrung his hands.
Impatient, the priest roared: “Well?”
Alexis quavered: “By all that's holy. I swear that all
I can afford to g;ive is 50 pounds apiece.”
“You swear, my son?”


“1 said so. didn't I?”
The holy man sighed: “So be it! But your daughters
are your heiresses?”
“Who else, after my good wife, your reverence?”
“Very well. And you are quite agreeable to the
marriage of your daughters to your cousins’ sons?”
“Nothing will please me more than to see those
spongers saddled with these good-for-nothings!”
“Tut tut!”
The holy man rose, blessed the house again and
departed. He went straight to the Constandinos, who fairly
dragged him inside and plied him with quahveah and the
sweet golden oinos of Castellorizo.
When the papas had gone the Constandinos held
another conference. Of course that old dog Alexis had
perjured himself in swearing that he could afford no more
than a lousy hundred, they declared. Nevertheless, the fact
that he had agreed to part up with that much showed how
things stood. Normally he would either have tried to marry
off the girls on that, if that was all the legacy had been, or,
what was more likely, would have blued it as soon as he
got it. which must have been straight after Thanasis died.
How much has Thanasis left? It must have been a good
few hundreds at least to have turned the old fellow and his
old woman into chinginises. It might have been
thousands!
The family decided to set about arrangements for the
double wedding immediately. No good trying to get any-
thing out of that old fox yet. It would all come with his
passing on. which. God rest him when it did come, was to
be hoped would not be too long.
Almost a month to that sensational day of the goat
Alexandrina’s inclusion amongst the outpatients at Darwin
Hospital the Michaelos girls were wedded with full
ceremony to the Constandino boys, and thus concluded a
contract made so long ago and so far away, away back on
the Island of Castellorizo. Indeed, it was as happy a turn
out of its kind as ever known in the Darwin community.
It went to show what can be done by success and happiness
to women that that erstwhile dowdy, sulky-browed pair.
Stravula and Helena, made as proud and lovely a brace of
brides as ever stepped up to that altar. So lovely were
they that their parents scarcely recognised them, and so
proud that they scarcely recognised their parents.
Alexis and Kristina did not stay for the festa that
followed the solemnisation, that merry dancing, singly and
in groups, and singing to accordion and ocarina the wild,
sweet, ancient songs of the beloved islands away in the
Middle Sea. and the boozing and the guzzling; for. of
course, it cost them nothing: instead they crept away as the
fun got going, and went hobbling home, in haste to get out
of their stifling new clothes and those shoes that were the
first they’d had on their feet in a decade.
Back home Alexis hurled his shoes into a corner, say-
ing: “Ah. mateira. dear heart, it's as much relief to get those
confounded things off as to get rid of the girls!”
Then he picked up Kristina’s shoes and hurled them
after his own and put an arm about her plump shoulder,
chuckling: “Well, it worked. The greedy fools, all of
them! We’ll last long enough to see the girls with a dozen
Constandino brats between them to tell about their Grand-
uncle Thanasis’s thousands that were only one poor little
hundred after all. Didn't l swear on my solemn oath it was
only a hundred? If Thanasis knows I'll bet he’s chuckling
in the spirit, because he did like a swift one. And poor,
innocent Alexandria, too. wherever her spirit may be.
Kala, woman! Alexandria was never half the goat we’ve
made of the Constandinos this day!”
Feiffer
oio m om haup w: cm
emcr pnewm Kerne pw
to fpoh pR6\/mw
Accent? pomes mmr
FIRVT MAKING M
people MAoy
fO£ SUCH A
50 OF THE SURFACE He
mi continue m
ia*£ pouaeo WHue
BEHIND the cam
H 5 CAW 600FV OUT
our bmemies om
CHAMPS.
MW UNAVOIDABLY tilU
dB PR tbb MA{6 ABOVI W&
tteUM, 6o ik) oma to
AW AQVo&e pmic &ACTIM
mwm m reaffirm uue
?zew)6 miaee AiJP CAU
m sacrifice-
-oiu covwvnoe m
mit& BMW The
mih.
in a m Hem, if
AU> «ai, THC
tHSJOR hbm OF M
COLO [OA£ CAW BC
vefneo &enwp rne
bee weo. we/wo of soch
aw ACReeMewr win
Be PUOUCW D6MI£R
of aM&e-
amp 10 mo ioo open
A OR6AK ft)ITH
POT KCiWpij MU
coior me oop espies
OF PATIM AMERICAN)
INVASION AK)P 0F
PHOTOOSAPHep WITH AW
PfrmiCAK) OBKOOP 6 ?.
with m vmeer
MAMPMAT! Dti OF \\m
CPMOIO, ptfD Kb)Otds
6VT pIWI M OR.
FOOR. Wb A TH£
CoH? WAR SNDS
AMERICAk) PFOPLS HM
de PFm T o H?AR
Ago or IT.


A lw ays
Make
Life
Assurance
your No. 1 investment and protection with
Australian
Metropolitan
Life
Assurance
Let Us Suggest A Plan To Suit You
AUSTRALIAN METROPOLITAN LIFE ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING
HUNTER AND BLIGH STS., SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
E. W. Robinson (Chairman),
Col. R. S. Goward, C.8.E., P. H. Phillips,
Struan Robertson, W. J. Cooksey.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
BALANCE-OF-PAYMENTS
Exports Still Too Low
The first thought that comes to one’s mind after looking at
Mr S. R. Carver’s balance-of-payments statistics for
1960-61 is that Australia’s volume of exports is still much
too low.
It is true that the disproportion between imports and
exports has given place to an encouraging export surplus in
April, May and June. But, taking last year as a whole, the
recorded trade-balance deficit deteriorated from £9 million to
£147 million.
Of course, there was a back log of demand for imports,
set loose by the lifting of import restrictions. And perhaps it
could be argued that the removal of import restrictions should
have been more gradual and selective. However, this is not
the time to reintroduce stringent imports controls.
Credit restrictions have proved to be an effective, if painful,
brake on the undue growth of imports and the mounting trade
deficit. The movement is now in the other direction, although
the Government has been subjected to much criticism for its
alleged attempt to control imports by domestic under-
employment.
The charge that Mr Menzies and Mr Holt deliberately
brought down the credit squeeze to cut down imports through
underemployment is far-fetched and unsubstantiated. The whole
idea of last November’s measures was to attempt to rectify
some basic imbalances which developed in the Australian
economy. But the slackening of effective demand,
which had followed in the wake of credit restrictions, did in
fact reduce the level of imports.
Visible exports were the same as in the previous year —
£937 million. But. in the meantime, imports jumped from
£946 million to £lOB4 million, transportation charges from
£l4B million to £173 million and expenditure on travel from
£36 million to £42 million. There were some increases in
Australia’s invisible receipts, but not enough to offset the
increased dra n on the balance-of-payments.
The situation was again saved by a high rate of inflow
on the capital account. Although the Government’s loan
raising overseas declined by £23 million to £l2 million, the
gap was plugged by the £7B million International Monetary
Fund loan.
It is obvious that Australia cannot continue to rectify
trade deficits by capital borrowings abroad. Last year's imports
were higher than the country could really afford.
It must be kept in mind that the real terms of trade will
continue to move against Australia’s primary exports. Britain’s
entry into the European Common Market will increase our
export difficulties, although not as much as some of the panic-
mongers predict.
Although there are hopes that the volume of imports will
continue to be about the level of the last quarter of 1960-61,
the only real solution is in higher exports.
THE PRESS
The Murdoch Croup's Struggle
HThe Rupert Murdoch-controlled group of newspapers, maga-
zines and TV and radio interests have so far failed to
reap any real financial benefits from their interstate expansion
drive.
Since October, 1959, News Ltd has raised £2,840,000 by
public share and note issues. Its holdings in the Melbourne
“Age” and the QTQ and ANM stations were sold for about
£1.5 million cash. At the same time there has been a marked
tendency to buying up News shares on the Adelaide Stock
Exchange. Some thousands are being taken up each week,
and this bolsters up the scrip’s market valuation.
Against its £1.5 million cash intake News Ltd. since 1959,
has paid out £1 million cash for the Cumberland Newspapers,
Parramatta (N.S.W.) suburban chain and a reputed £500,000
as a deposit—with a balance of about £1.6 million still owing
—to O’Connell Ltd for its shares in Mirror Newspapers Ltd
(formerly Truth and Sportsman).
At June 30 last News Ltd also owned £2,436,468 on
loans secured by freeholds and term borrowings. In addition
there was a £1,650,857 bank overdraft, and sundry creditors
adding up to £1,965,000 There were also £500,000 registered
unsecured notes and £95,000 in deposits on call. Sundry
creditors shown in the balance-sheet may include what is still
owed to O'Connell Ltd.
As far as News Ltd is concerned these debt items would
be less the proportion chargeable to minority interests in
Mirror Newspapers Ltd. The interest liability for a full year
seems to be not far below £500,000. The dividend charge is
£229,000.
Despite good formal liquidity, there are heavy charges
and some rather doubtful assets. The Adelaide activities now
seem to be running at a definite loss. The advertising volume
in the "News has dwindled by some 34 p.c. On an estimate
of costs and revenues, the “News” seems to lose about £3330
a week, plus another £lOOO depreciation write-off. There are
certain Adelaide incomes offsetting this, such as the “Sunday
Mail” and the subsidiary block-making firm. In addition,
about £lO,OOO a year has been coming in from the distribution
of Fairfax’s Sungravure publications in Adelaide and South
Australia, but this will soon be lost. All in all, about £l5OO
a week may come in from these extra sources. If this goes
on, Mr Murdoch's Adelaide activities may continue to eat
heavily into any other profits. In addition there is the heavy
dividend and interest liability.


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A D 1720)
Assets exceed £177,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O’Connell Streets, SYDNEY
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
The Broken Hill newspaper, Southdown Press in Mel-
bourne (“New Idea,” “TV Week” and “Financial Standard”
are its main publications) and the Cumberland Press Sydney
suburban chain —running about 20 newspapers in the Parra-
matta and North Shore districts —show a poor return on the
huge capital tied up in them. Mirror Newspapers Ltd is said
to be losing about £4500 a week, with the £6500 weekly loss on
the “Sunday Mirror” outweighing the £lOOO profit on the
“Daily Mirror” and another £lOOO coming in from interstate
and sundry revenue. The Perth “Sunday Times” contributes
little to the group’s consolidated kitty.
Capital profits, on sales of investments might be used to
build up disclosed earnings. However, some of them have
been written up in 1960, cutting into the margin available for
profit.
Mr Murdoch and his directors have made little secret
that they expected to suffer some initial losses in rebuilding the
News Ltd empire. The question is—how long can they hold
out at this rate? And there is a rumor that the popularity of
the News Ltd scrip in Adelaide is partly due to the views of a
Sydney broker, who told his clients in a circular that he felt
that News stock was the best in the newspaper field!
STOCK EXCHANGES
A New Transfer System
'T'he Australian sharemarket has been handicapped by a
cumbersome procedure for transfer of securities long
enough now.
It was all the more pleasant, therefore, to gather in the
Sydney Stock Exchange’s glamorous new building to discuss
the Advisory Committee’s report on proposed changes in the
share transfer procedure.
The Advisory Committee of the Australian Associated
Stock Exchanges had a difficult job on its hands. It has dis-
charged its task creditably. The new procedure proposed by
the Advisory Committee looks neat and streamlined. The
client’s time and effort will be saved, with no extra work for
the brokers’ staffs. However, the stockbrokers' legal responsi-
bility will be increased.
Mr A. H. Urquhart, chairman of the Sydney Stock
Exchange, said that the Law Society, the Bar Council and
professional acounting and secretarial bodies in each State
were consulted during the preparation of the Advisory Com-
mittee’s report. On the whole, generous support was received.
The Stock Exchange Committees in all the States have sup-
ported the idea of streamlining the transfer procedure, but
the present proposals are still to be ratified by the ordinary
members. If accepted, it is expected that the new system will
become effective in about 12 months.
Mr A B. Mellor, chairman of the Australian Associated
Stock Exchanges, said that “the present share transfer proce-
dure is giving rise to great confusion on the part of overseas
portfolio investors, particularly in North America, where, of
course, a streamlined and efficient transfer system exists.” He
felt that the existing system of transfers in Australia, which
the Advisory Committee’s report now proposes to change, is
“acting as a deterrent in some quarters against portfolio invest-
ment in this country by overseas investors.”
Mr Mellor said that the recommendations embodied in
the new system envisage three novel concepts: the elimination
of the need for the buying client's signature, the conversion
of a transfer signed by the transferor into a valid document
—which will be achieved only by the warranty of the selling
broker—and the obligation by all members of Australian Stock
Exchanges to carry “suitable indemnity insurance cover.”
It is proposed to convert a transfer into valid form by
requiring the selling broker to certify on the transfer form
against the signature that the document is in order. Unless this
is done the document would be classified as “not good delivery
between brokers” and would be unacceptable to the company
registrar.
The Advisory Committee's report also embraces the fol-
lowing principles—the selling client has to sign only one form
of transfer for his total selling order. This will be known as
the Security Transfer Form.
The subsequent division of the parcel of securities into
the required transfers will be done by the selling broker.
The transferor's signature will not be witnessed, and the
selling broker will certify on the transfer form the validity
of the documents. If the transferee requires the securities to
be removed to another register the buying broker will nominate
the register. The statement of the transferee’s occupation will
be abolished. An essential part of the proposed system
envisages the payment for purchase by the buying client
immediately upon receipt of the contract notes. This will cut
out the lags during which brokers have to “carry” their
clients.
The Advisory Committee’s report was issued simul-
taneously by the chairman of all the affiliated Stock Exchanges
in Australia. It is understood that the State Governments
have welcomed the Advisory Committee's proposals. It is
also understood that a lot of work was done by members of the
Sydney Stock Exchange Committee, which has been keenly
set on streamlining the share-transfer procedure for quite
some time. If the proposals put forward in the report are
adopted the investor, the company and the broker will all
benefit.
COAL
Exports Growth Continues
Despite the recent closure of some coalmines the industry's
position in N.S.W. is healthy. Answering questions asked
by a deputation of the Southern District Branch of the Miners’
Federation, the Chairman of the Joint Coal Board, Mr S. F.
Cochran, was emphatic that there is no general over-
production of coal in the State. Some mines, such as the
Excelsior Colliery in the southern field, had to be closed
down, but this was due to the fact that certain kinds of coal
“produced by individual collieries are not required by the
market because of . . . unacceptability for price and quality
reasons.”
Mr Cochran also said that the Joint Coal Board did not
intend to fix production quotas for collieries. He felt that
“in this industry there must be changes to cope with the
changed pattern of coal consumption.”
This is a realistic view. Artificial restriction of output
would not really help anybody, but could affect export sales.
So far the State’s coalmining industry has successfully passed
several difficult readjustment stages and its production is now
better geared to the requirements of domestic and export
markets. This was accomplished largely thanks to wise guid-
ance by the Joint Coal Board, which developed new market
outlets, built up a healthy export trade and is very efficient in
finding alternative jobs for displaced miners.
The industry was plagued by chronic, often politically-
inspired, industrial stoppages in the immediate postwar period,
culminating in the disastrous Communist-led 1949 coal strike.
This cost the industry many markets, facilitated market pene-
tration by competitive fuels and crippled the coal-producers for


Invest in
The Longest Established National Hire
Purchase Company
in which the Bank of N.S.W.
has a 40% shareholding
REGISTERED
NOTES
INTEREST RATES
%
PER
ANNUM
Application for Registered Notes can be accepted
only on the printed form included in the pros-
pectus obtainable from the Bankers to the issue,
Bank of New South Wales (all Branches),
any A.G.C. Branch, and your Stockbroker.
PAID-UP CAPITAL: £6,875,000
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
142 Phillip Street, Sydney • BW 2673
Branches and offices throughout Australia
ASK THE WALES' FOR DETAILS
THE
ORION INSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England')
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT AVIATION
N.S.W. BRANCH: 19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
TELEPHONES * BU 4387 L. F. THORPS, Manager.
several years. Industrial relations have improved significantly
in the 1953-1960 period. Management, which was often as
blameworthy as the Miners’ Federation in causing industrial
disputes, is now of a much higher calibre.
Coal prices are lower and there is more effort to produce
for specific markets. Mechanisation is progressing more
rapidly, although earlier it was violently opposed by the
Miners’ Federation, particularly by the local lodges. Work-
ing conditions have also improved—a very important factor
in the industry. Extensive use of coal-washing plants has
helped to hold and expand coal sales, despite the electrifica-
tion of the railways and the use of diesel locomotives.
Increasing coal exports are today the dominant feature.
During the year to June 30, 1961, Australia exported 1,912,903
tons of coal valued at £7,761,000, mainly to Japan. This was
825,059 tons and £3,434,000 better than in 1959-1960 —a very
encouraging rise. Exports of coal in June last amounted to
£1,352,000. jumping from £558,000 in June, 1960.
The most urgent problem now is the expansion of coal-
loading facilities in Newcastle and Port Kembla —Australia’s
leading coal-export ports. The Commonwealth and N.S.W.
Governments are co-operating in building new coal-loaders,
capable of handling Japan’s large new bulk coal-carriers, at
present under construction. These bulk carriers will be used
on the. Australia-Japan coal run in about two years.
The N.S.W. Minister for Public Works, Mr P. N. Ryan,
recently announced that £2.5 million will be spent on new coal-
loading facilities at Port Kembla’s inner harbor. The project,
including a 700 ft. long wharf, is expected to be completed
by September, 1963. New coal-loaders will also be installed
in Newcastle and Sydney’s coal port at Balmain. The State
Government will spend about £lO million on the development,
assisted by Canberra.
Mr Ryan said that, when completed, the new coal-loading
facilities will “accommodate the largest-sized vessel which the
recent Japanese steel and coal mission indicated would be used
in obtaining supplies of coal from Australia.”
Japan’s rapid industrial expansion is providing Australian
coal-producers with an expanding market, which has every
chance of continuous growth.
NEW SOUTH WALES
Bumper Rice Crop Expected
TVTew South Wales rice-growers are expected to benefit from
increased water supplies reaching the Murrumbidgee
Irrigation Area from the Snowy Mountains hydro-electric
scheme.
It is expected that better irrigation facilities will allow a
record 55,000 acres of rice to be sown in New South Wales
late in 1962. The yield should be about 140,000 tons. Increased
sowing of Calrose semi-long-grained rice is anticipated. A
Massey-Ferguson marketing survey says that “the most import-
ant aspect is expected to be progress in the development of
Blue Bonnet 50/’ This is a long-grained variety, which the
N.S.W. Rice Marketing Board hopes will satisfy local
requirements.
Last season 111.000 tons of rice were harvested from
45,000 acres, compared with 126,000 tons from 49,000 acres in
1960.
It is planned to expand bulk conditioning facilities in the
State, which at present can receive 42,000 tons, in anticipation
of the large crop.
During the year ended June 30, 1961, Australia exported
897,973 cwt. of rice, valued at £2.337,000.
The United Kingdom, British Pacific Islands and Lebanon
are the main importers. Considerable quantities are also
exported to Papua and New Guinea.
Most of Australian rice exports are shipped from New
South Wales ports.
Alternative markets for Australian rice can probably be
secured fairly easily in the rice-consuming countries of South-
east Asia if Britain’s entry into the European Common Market
will affect sales to the United Kingdom.


PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
R. H. ALLEN, M. R. L. DOWLING
P. R. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS. N. R.
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner).
Delfin House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building:, 150 Queen St.,
Melbourne. 67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney.
Melbourne or Wollongong.
JOHN N. ROBERTSON
Member of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHAKE BROKER.
Temple Court,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne C.l.
Telephones: 67 4804, 67 2465
Telegrams & Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. 1,. NEVITT., A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Eife Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761
(4 Lines)
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Union Carbide Australia Ltd
The chemical industry is as much sub-
ject to the science of economics as
its constituent raw materials to the
science of chemistry. Immutable laws
govern both, the laws of supply and
demand on the one hand, the laws of
combination and behavior on the other,
and it is anybody’s guess as to which
are the more complex.
The Australian chemical industry grew
out of a need for chemicals required in
primary development—fertilisers, explo-
sives, etc. It has evolved in spectacular
fashion and today looks back from a
position of unprecedented strength upon
an era of remarkable growth. Two
world wars, a growing economic sophisti-
cation and a growing use of petroleum —
a basic raw material —have wrought great
changes. The industry has been among
the pace setters, industrially speaking, of
the last decade. Activity has effervesced
all along the line from laboratory to final
“precipitate,” the test-tube nabobs turn-
ing out a multitudinous and never-ending
stream of new and varied products.
But growth is one thing. There are
problems as well —an increasing com-
petition from low-cost manufacturers
overseas (the Achilles’ heel of the Aus-
tralian chemical industry since cessation
of import restrictions in February, 1960),
a stepped-up rivalry from local manu-
facturers and finally the incipient menace,
the sometimes savage but always rising
cost element.
Union Carbide Australia Ltd, one of
the main contenders on the local scene,
was formed in 1957 by the merger of
Timbrol Ltd with the Australian interests
of Union Carbide Corporation of U.S.A.
(on a4O p.c.-60 p.c. basis). Following
the amalgamation, Timbrol became one
of the two main operating subsidiaries,
joined in 1958 by Eveready Aust. Pty,
acquired for 1,290,470 20s. ords issued
at a premium of £816,655.
Union Carbide manufactures a wide
range of agricultural, industrial and fine
chemicals (including hormone weed-
killers, deodorants, wood-preservatives,
paints, disinfectants, plasticisers, asphalt
flooring-tiles and D.D.T.), dry-cell bat-
teries, ore-grinders, metal-rollers, etc. As
part of the £23-million petrochemical
industry being established at Altona
(Vic.) the co. is erecting a polyethylene
plant with an initial productive capacity
of 15,000,0001 b. annually. The new plant
is scheduled to commence commercial
production early in October next. It is
being built adjacent to the petrochemical
complex of Vacuum Oil Pty, which has
contracted to supply the raw materials.
Polyethylene is used in a widening range
of industrial processes, such as auto-
motive spring-liners, piping, coaxial-cable
insulation and packaging.
Affiliation with Union Carbide Cor-
poration of New York ensures access to
valuable research material and expert
technical assistance of the powerful
American associate.
Last term’s trading was considered
especially satisfactory having regard to
the circumstances in which it was
achieved. During the second half of the
financial year—the six months to June
30. 1961 —competition increased greatly
and demand for manufactured products
was reduced considerably owing to the
conditions under which industry was
obliged to operate. Selling prices of
many of the co.’s products, particularly
chemicals, had to be cut, even further, to
compete with low-priced imports. Sales
were maintained at a reasonable level
but profit margins were reduced.
Consolidated figures are not available,
but parent net profit edged up £4820, or
1.4 p.c., to £347,472, compared with the
previous term’s £342,652, adjusted for
increased tax (see profit table). Profit
was struck after deducting all manufac-
turing, distributing and administrative
expenses, £233,331 (up £18,843) for
depreciation and £303,695 (up £47,597)
for taxation. After paying pref. divs.
(£5500) it works out an earning rate of
15.9 p.c., on unchanged ord. capital, as
against 15.7 p.c. (adjusted), 20.2 p.c.,
20.2 p.c. and 17.8 p.c. back to 1957:
Parent and Subsidiary.
r Dividends , To Re- Re-
Jne. Profit. Pref. r ——Ord. N serves. serves.*
SO, 5j p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
Profit sale land, £41,279 .. .. 323,82 S
’54..184,186 5500 10 p.c. = 86,031 92,655 416,483
’55..159,318 5500 10 „ „ 86,032 67,786 484,269
’56..117,503 5500 10 „ „ 86,031 25,972 510,241
Union Carbide Australia, Ltd.
’57..158,385 5500 10 p.c. = 86,032 66,853 577,094
Share-premiums, £816,655 .. .. 1,393,749
Assets-revaiuation, £llB4 .. .. 1,394,933
’58..439,575 5500 10 p.c. =215,078 218,997 1,613,930
’59..440,866 5500 10 „ ~215,078 220,288 1,834,218
Parent Co.
Profit sale assets, £9106 .. .. 1,843,324
Plant written-off, £29,538 .. .. 1,813,786
Unexplained reduction, £13,688 .. 1,500.09 S
’60..359,605 5500 10 p.c. =215,078 139,027 1,939,225
Tax underprovided, £16,953 . . . • 1,922,272
’61..347,472 5500 10 p.c. =215,078 126,594 2,049,166
*Subject to intangibles, £241,195 at June 30, 1961.
The steady 10 p.c. div.-rate absorbed
£215,078 leaving £126,894 to reserves,
which, subject to intangibles, £241,195,
aggregated £2,049,166.
Liquidity declined, theoretical working
capital falling £1,488,450 to £2,636,445.
Current ratio was 2.2-to-l. Stocks on
hand jumped £740,729 to £3,065,584;
debtors, etc., £134,189 to £1,514,310.
Cash, bonds, etc., slipped £1,537,741 to
£345,133. Creditors, tax provision, etc.,
climbed £825,627 to £2,178,293. The
7 p.c. debenture issue, maturing 1969,
was fully subscribed, the final contri-
bution of £760,000 lifting total loan
liability to £3,250,000. Cash funds were
substantially reduced following flow of
loan funds into construction of the poly-
ethylene plant. The book value of land,
buildings and roads, plant, machinery
and equipment, construction work in
progress and motor vehicles jumped
£2,360,641 to £4,672,309 —in at cost or
as revalued, less depreciation:
Paid capital— 1959. 1960.* 1961.*
Pref £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO.OOO
Ord 2,150,783 2,150,783 2,150,783
Reserves .. .. 1,834,218 1,939,225 2,049,166
Loan .. .. 466,000
Debentures .. 2,490,000 3,250,000
Overdraft ....
Advance debenture
subscriptions . . 636,000
Creditors, tax pro-
vision . . . . 791,871 1,352,666 2,178,293
Final dividends .. 110,289 110,289 110,289
£6,089,161 £8,142,963 £9,838,531
Land, buildings,
plant . . . . 2,043,472 2,311,668 4,672,309
Stock . . . . 2,065,373 2,324,855 3,065,584
Debtors, etc. .. 986,088 1,380,121 1,514,310
Cash, bonds .. 771,791 1,882,874 345,133
Intangibles .. 222,437 243,445 241,195
£6,089,161 £8,142,963 £9,838,531
* Parent only.
The co.’s scope of business should be


Free help for young home planners
mmm
mm* jk
«
111
.
•• >: •••■
**« <-
II
.. . *>' *
I: !
Post coupon below now for 1961 issue of the
John Lysaght (Australia) Limited,
Port Line Building, 50 Young Street, Sydney
Please send me, without cost or obligation, the new •
Lysaght Portfolio of Low Cost Home Plans.
ADDRESS j
STATE i
ORB
PORTFOLIO OF
HOME PLANS
In two minds about the right plan for your new home?
Then send today for this brand-new Lysaght Portfolio.
Feast your eyes on some of this year’s most brilliant home
plans. Each, of course, features the modem ‘low look’
roofline.
Expensive to build? Far from it! Even though many of
these homes have the look of luxury, they’re well within the
budget of almost every young married couple especially
if you specify Lysaght Steel Sheet as the roofing material*
Gl7oc


Ask your banker
or stockbroker...
WZi
m
m
Mm
i ,
'
V
SAFEST
INVESTMENT
Reg.
First
Mortgage
Debenture
Stock
P.A. for
8 and 10 years
REID MURRAY
Acceptance Limited
FIXED LONG TERM STOCK
SHORT TERM NOTICE STOCK
7 '/z°/o
s^o
47b
P.A. on 12
mths. notice
P.A. on 6
mths. notice
P.A. on 3
mths. notice
P.A. at call
Applications accepted only on forms attached to the Prospectus. Available from:
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67-1924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melb.
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William Street, Adelaide
408 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.
PAID UP CAPITAL £7,000,000
RMA.ttt
GUARANTEED BY REID MURRAY HOLDINGS LTD.
greatly widened when the Altona project
gets under way—“ Union Carbide,
through its participation in the fast-
growing polyethylene market, will play
an important part in the future economy
of Australia.” However, competition in
the petrochemical industry is intense and
whirlwind profits cannot be expected.
Extension and modernisation of existing
plant continues ; so, too, a constant and
critical examination and appraisal of
all manufacturing methods (the cost
problem).
Thus far. Union Carbide has been
leaning on external finance to supple-
ment its industrial-development plans.
However, the ambitious nature of its
capital-investments may give shareholders
the coveted opportunity to increase their
holdings of Union Carbide’s scrip.
Reserves include £816,655 share pre-
miums and £178,622 assets-revaluation
reserve.
Net tangible asset-backing is £4O 11s.
9d. for the 5 p.c. 20s. f.-p. prefs., which
last fetched 16s. 6d. on the Sydney
'Change. The 20s. f.-p. ords. (visibly
backed by 365. lOd. of net tangibles) last
changed hands at 82s. 3d. a unit. The
immediate yield for this leading stock
is a “blue-chip low” 2.4 p.c., on the
basis of the unchanged 10 p.c. div.-rate.
Wilke and Co. Ltd
Tt is obvious that if every piece of print-
ing and every printing machine were
permanently removed, man would be
reduced to primitive conditions within a
very short time. The printing industry,
with its roots deep in an ancient craft,
illustrates to a marked degree the tremen-
dous changes wrought by progress.
The Wilke firm of Melbourne printers
has progressed too. It was founded before
the turn of the century, but didn't become
a public co. until 1948, when 40.000 20s.
ord. shares were issued to the public at
a premium of 16s. each. Three-quarters
of paid up capital remained in the hands
of the original proprietors.
Rapid development ensued. In 1949
there was an issue of 50,000 5 p.c. 20s.
prefs. This was followed in 1950 by
10,000 ords. at a 16s. premium to the
big Hazell, Watson and Viney Ltd of
London. In return a valuable technical
connection was achieved.
In 1951 came the one-for-one bonus
issue of 130,000 ords., followed by a one-
for-four po-vt-bonus par issue of 65,000
ords. Another 50,000 20s. prefs. were
issued in 1955, to the M.L.C., carrying
61 p.c. per annum, and redeemable over
the 20 years 1960-80. In the same year
a further 113,850 ords. were issued to
ordinary shareholders in the ratio of 35-
for-100.
In 1954 the co. issued £130,000 of 20s.
6 p.c. registered unsecured notes at par,
carrying an option to subscribe at par for
130,000 ords. of 20s. each, at conversion
date, May 15, 1959.
However, in May, 1959, Wilke put up
a proposal to option-holders to take up
an issue of 8 p.c.-10 p.c. registered un-
secured 20s. notes at par, maturing June
30, 1964. Each note carries a separate


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Iworporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£A363,000,000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator -has
proved over many years to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Mag-netting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
etc.
If any “Bulletin” illustration
takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you
a price for the original.
option to take up ordinary shares at par
on June 30, 1964. The options rank for
any cash or bonus issues made during the
currency of the notes. Acceptances closed
on June 15, 1959.
In the result, 12,296 20s. ords. were
issued, bringing paid ord. capital, at June
30, 1959, to £451,146, and 107,930 8 p.c.-
10 p.c. registered unsecured 20s. notes
were issued at par, maturing June 30,
1964 There have been no subsequent
share issues and paid capital is presently
held in £451,146 of 20s. ords., £50,000
of 5 p.c. cum. prefs. and £45,000 of 6|
p.c. redeemable prefs.—2soo prefs. were
redeemed in 1960 ; 2500 last term.
Wilke's business interests include three
very valuable contracts. The co. prints
the Pacific edition of “Time,” a well-
known American weekly, and the Aus-
tralasian edition of the “Reader’s Digest”
noted for its wide, popular appeal and
vigorous, persistent selling techniques.
The other more prosaic, but perhaps even
more profitable, source of earnings is
printing the Melbourne Telephone Direc-
tory for the P.M.G.
Leaning on these various supports, the
co. has been able to get along happily
in the highly competitive printing busi-
ness. It is now printing “Vogue” (Aus-
tralia).
In 1959-60 Wilke acquired the whole
of the issued capital and goodwill of Litho
Color Reproduction Pty. and its two sub-
sidiaries, Electronic Litho Plates Pty and
Litho Chemicals Pty, for an undisclosed
cash consideration. The new subsidiaries
have made a satisfactory contribution to
latest results and at the same time have
“enabled our offset printing works at
Clayton to expand their output along
planned lines/’
Latest figures, for the 12 months to
June 30 last, reflect another successful
year with turnover and profit breaking
all previous records. It was not, how-
ever, “an easv trading period, as com-
petitive market conditions were intensified
by credit restrictions which applied for
the greater part of the year under review,
and the satisfactory result emphasises the
steadily increasing demand for the com-
pany’s printing production.”
So as to provide further funds for con-
tinued expansion of these printing activi-
ties, Wilke effected issue of £250,000 of
20s. registered unsecured notes, at par,
in December 1960, maturing November
30, 1965. At close of the year, portion
of this amount had been utilised to finance
extensions to the factory at Clayton (Vic.)
and the surplus remaining had been tem-
porarily invested in deposits at call,
£lOO,OOO.
Returning now to final figures, con-
solidated accounts, tabled for the first
time in 1960, show pre-tax trading profit
a substantially improved £186,260 (up
£13,052), after depreciation and amortisa-
tion £133,137 (up £13,052), interest on
fixed loans £27,788 (up £7405) and direc-
tors’ fees £2lOO (down £1631). Income
from investments yielded another £1621
(up £1479).
After setting aside £99,000 (up £10,400)
for taxation, consolidated net profit came
in, finally, slightly higher at £BB,BBl (up
£4131):
•>—- Dividends-- ■>,
June A Pref. B Pref. Old. To Re- Re-
-30, Profit.'s p.c. 6J p.c. B'p-c. ‘ serves.'- serves.*
££££ ■ £ - £
1956.. 50,026 .2500 3250 35,108 9,168 197,997
Net -capital loss on plant scrapped or
sold, £4533 .. : .. ... ... 193.464
Provision for long-service leave, . £SSS4 184,580
Tax Orel-provided, £3563 ' .. .. 188,143
1957.. 55.272 2500 3250 3a,108 14,414 202,557
Net capital profit, £679 . . ... 203,236
Tax. overprovided, £ 11.767 .. .'.‘215,003
Long-service prov.. £6244 .. .. 208,759
1958- .52,26,4 2500 3250 35,108 11,406 22-0,165
Net capital loss, £2938 / ",'. / 217,227
Tax over-provided, £54*25 1. . . 22*2,652
1959.. 64.596 2500 3250 35,108 23,738 246,390
Net,capital loss, £2938 ' .. ./ *217,227
Tax overprovided, £5425 .. .. 222,652
Wilke .>kd- ,©o; Ltd and Subsidiaries.
lO p.c.
Profit 'sale assets, £459 .. .. 246,849
Tax overprovided, £3215 . .*, . . 250,064
To staff fund, £2408 ... .. 247,656
Goodwill written-off, £5OO .. ..‘247,158
Royalties written-back, £5129 . 252,285
Reduction reserves, £3953 ~ . . '.. 248,332
1960.. 84.750 2500 3250 45,115 33,885 2-82,217
Loss sale assets, £‘592 .. .. 281,625
Tax .underprovided, £4517 . . . . 277,108
Goodwill written-off; £1613 —.*.-* ,v 275,495
1961. .88,881 KOO 3087 45,114 38,180 313,675
* to £13,898 intangibles at 30/6/61.
After paying pref. divs., the net showing
works out equivalent to an earning rate
on ord. capital of 18.5 p.c. compared with
17.5 p.c. in the previous, year. The ord.
div.-rate, lifted to 10 p.c. in 1960, absorbed
£45,114. Reserves jumped £31,458 to
£313,675. Parent’s net profit after tax
was £5415 higher at £80,885, equal to 16.7
p.c. on ord. capital compared with 15.5
p.c. and 13 p.c. back to 1959.
Wilke has established itself as a con-
servatively based, hard-headed business
entity—a force to be reckoned with in the
printing game. Its conservatism is ex-
tended throughout the organisation even
to the presentation of accounts, and the
co. has established a policy of charging
higher depreciation of plant and equip-
ment than is deductible from assessable
income under income tax legislation. In
last term, as in previous terms, tax and
depreciation provisions each exceeded re-
vealed net profit; this, of course, giving
foundation to pleasant conjecture of un-
disclosed reserves, hidden strengths, etc.
The tax provision (£99,000) would indicate
a theoretical net profit, after tax, other
things being equal, nearer the £148,000
mark.
Balance sheet analysis provides clear
indication of increased liquidity plus hefty
investment in fixed assets:
Paid capital— 1959. 1960.* 1961 *
Pref £106.000 £97,500 £95,000
Ord 451,146 451,1*6 451,146
Reserves .. 246,390 282,217 813,675
Mortgage .. 18,000 16,200
Notes .. .. 173,090 507,930 357,930
Overdraft, etc. .. 35,187 162,371 30,208
Creditors . . . . 74,453 79,907 165,954
Long-service pro-
vision . . 17,700 22,281 25,136
Tax provision , . 79,000 88,600 99,000
Dividends .. 22,623 32,199 32,118
£1,199,589 £1,342,151 £1,586,367.
Freehold .. .. 204,774 246,522 311,797
Plant . . 7. 405,393 488,674 508,588
Investments .. - 15,800 11,950
Stock .. .. 393,299 309.860 .. 351,870
Debtors .. .. 179,830 265,172 287,633
Deposits .. -.— 100,000
Cash, etc. .. 16,293 613 631
Intangibles .. - 15,510 13,898
£1,199,589 £1,342,151 £1,586,367
* Consolidated accounts.
Theoretical working capital advanced
£197,244 to £398,897 setting the current


CUSTOM CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
3 MONTHS’
notice
6 MONTHS’
notice
12 MONTHS’
notice
2 YEARS
and now for only
5YEARS
Interest is paid in equal quarterly instalments,
free of exchange.
This is not a Prospectus. Copies of the Pros-
pectus covering these issues have been lodged
with the Registrar of Companies, Sydney.
mw
%
OFFERS TO LONG OR
SHORT TERM INVESTORS
REGISTERED FIRST
MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE
STOCK
CUMULATIVE STOCK 4 TO 20 YEARS, 7% PER ANNUM
Applications must be made on Forms enclosed in the Prospectus, now available from
ALL MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGE
EVERY BRANCH OF THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
All Branches of
CUSTOM CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
100 New South Head Road, Edgecliff, Sydney
Secretary-General: Keith Love. Telephone: 32.0111
Branches: Bankstown, Chatswood, Hurstville, Liverpool, Newcastle, Parramatta, Wollongong.
Assets in Australia exceed £BO,
CRD 1.861
ratio at 2.2 to 1 (2.6 to 1). Bank over-
draft settled £132,163 to £30,208 with
stocks up £42,010 at £351,870 —consistent
with a decision “to increase stocks in line
with increase in turnover.” Debtors
climbed £22,461 to £287,633. Creditors
built up a further £86,047 to £165,954.
As mentioned earlier, installations at
the Clayton factory were extended to pro-
yide additional productive and storage
space. Several large multi-color offset
and letterpress units were obtained, and
orders placed for other modern items of
plant. The book-values of freeholds, in
at cost and valuation less amortisation,
jumped £65,275 to £311,797 ; of plant and
equipment, in at cost and valuation less
depreciation and amounts owing under
hire-purchase, £19.914 to £508,588.
Mortgage liability was reduced £lBOO
to £16,200. Investments declined £3850
to £11,950.
Wilke’s future seems assured. Prospects
look promising with some growth possi-
bilities as the business continues to ex-
pand. The association with “our Eng-
lish friends, Hazell Sun Ltd, continues
to be of great benefit to us, and we grate-
fully acknowledge the advice and techni-
cal assistance made freely available to us
by them, and note with pleasure their
continued expansion and success.”
At the last sale in Melbourne the 20s.
ords. changed hands at 435. 3d. each.
Immediate yield is 4.7 p.c. on the basis
of the present 10 p.c. div.-rate. Further
issues should not be discounted.
Net tangible asset-backing works out at
£8 18s. Id. the 20s. prefs., 335. 3d. the
20s. ords.
COMPANY NOTES
Eric Anderson Consolidated
HThe recovery of Eric Anderson Con-
solidated Ltd, Sydney-based elec-
trical appliances retailer and hire-purchase
financier, is encouraging. Things seem
to be improving for the better-placed—
and well-managed—retailers, despite the
continuation of credit blues.
Net profit for the year to Tune 30,
1961, edged up from £192,497 to
£210,114. Although the rise is a modest
£17,617 it is significant because the com-
pany is trading in one of the worst-
dampened sectors of the economy. In
the previous year net profit declined by
£12,122.
Last term’s net earnings were disclosed
after setting aside £37,000 for deprecia-
tion (up £12,267) and providing £108,560
for taxation (down £6335). The steady
12| p.c. dividend cheque on the higher
paid capital absorbed £181,991.
Hire-purchase outstandings rose from
£4,248,943 to £4,838,069. In addition
“a separate amount of £666,368 for tele-
vision servicing contracts was outstand-
ing at June 30, 1961.”
Directors say that hire-purchase terms
were shortened, “enabling greater selec-
tivity of business and the group ended
the year in a sound liquid condition.”
Borrowings from the public amounted
to £2,365,700, compared with paid-up
capital of £2,029,545 at the balance date.
Directors claim that “an average of
£283,000 is being received each month
from hire-purchase and other debtors.
This income would be sufficient to repay
all debenture and noteholders within
nine months —without taking into account
income received from the larger volume
of cash sales.”
It appears that the company’s TV
retailing business contracted during the
year, but its share of the TV market was
“maintained.”
The company reports that “steps were
successfully taken to increase turnover
by placing greater emphasis on merchan-
dising other types of home appliances.”
At the last sale in Sydney the ss. ords.
fetched ss. lOd. for an immediate yield
of 10.7 p.c. on the basis of the steady
p.c. dividend distribution.
OIL AND MINING
Central Norseman
A lthough production of gold has in-
creased steadily in Australia during
the postward period, it is still well below
the level of output in 1938-39. The un-
profitability of mining lower-grade ore
and the heavy costs involved in opening
up new mines indicate that pre-war pro-
duction will not be reached in the near
future. The Gold Mining Industry Assist-
ance Act, passed in 1954 to check a serious
decline in goldminmg activity, through
the payment of a production subsidy has
led to some increased production.
Central Norseman Gold Corp. N.L. is
one of the few remaining unsubsidised


Missing Friend
Any person knowing the whereabouts of GEOHOE
ARCHIBALD BLACK last heard of at Tamworth
about 15th October 1929 is asked to communicate
with the PUBLIC SOLICITOR of 55 Market Street
Sydney.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
To. GWENDOLINE VIOLET GRAY address unknown
TAKE NOTICE that SIDNEY HENRY GRAY has
filed a Petition for divorce No. 2504 of 1961- on
the ground of desertion for a period of two years
and upwards. If you wish to defend you may file
an answer in the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court,
Macquarie Street, Sydney, within 28 days from
the date of the publication of this notice and
obtain a c-op.v of the petition without charge from
Messrs COPE, MORTON & SEDGWICK, Solicitors,
Barker Street, Casino, N.S.W. —C. A. H. HARMS
Registrar.
Matrimonial Causes Act, 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Matrim on lap Causes Jurisdiction.
To: DONALD FRANCIS PEARSON late of Findon,
South Australia.—TAKE NOTICE that FLORENCE
EILEEN PEARSON has filed petition No. 2179 of
1901 for divorce on the grounds of desertion. If
you wish to defend you may file an answer in the
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Macquarie Street,
Sydney by the 26th October 1901 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from .J. C.
PAYNTER, Solicitor of 107 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney. —C. A. H. HARMS Registrar.
Matrimonial Causes Act, 1959.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
To:DOUGLAS BRUCE MARLOW.—TAKE NOTICE
that JOYCE SYBIL MARLOW has filed a Petition
for divorce No. 2393 of 1961 on the ground of
desertion. If you wish to defend you may file an
answer in the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court,
Mint Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, within
six weeks from the date of publication of this
notice, and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from Messrs MOLLOY & SCHRADER,
Solicitors of 149 Castlereagh Street, Sidney in the
Slate of . New South Wales—C. A. H. HARMS
Registrar.
producers in W.A. The co._ owns a
number of leases at Norseman (W.A.j,
including the Phoenix- and Princess
Royal-mine properties. Paid capital,
£650,000. is in 2,600,000 ss. f.-p. shares,
approximately 51 p.c. of which are held
by Western Mining Corp. Ltd, general
managers and consultants. The co.
operates a plant capable of handling, up
to 14,000 tons of ore a month.
Latest results from Central Norseman
(12 months ended March 31, 1961) reveal
profits (equal to 4s. a share) down £98,494,
or 15.9 p.c., at £521,522. The
mill treated 183,118 tons of ore
(183,697 tons in the preceding year) for
a recovery of 98,868 (101,115) oz. of fine
gold and 52,110 (47,803) oz. of silver.
This was equivalent to an average yield
of 10.80 (11.01) dwt. gold and 5.69 (5.20)
dwt. silver a ton. Of the ore produced
and sent for treatment 49 p.c. came from
the Regent and Crown sections of the
Phoenix mine, and 51 p.c. from the Prin-
cess Royal.
The reduced net profit was due, in
main, to increased mining costs, the
slightly lower average grade of ore treated
and an increase of 12s. Id. per week in
basic wage during the year. Operating
costs rose by upwards of 7.3 p.c. The
average operating cost per ton of ore
finished up at 112.45. (104.75.). Profit was
struck after deducting £718.631 (£686,340)
mining and treatment costs, £311,301
(£275,545) development redemption and
£20,380 (£17.521) administration, etc. and
includes £17,244 (£17,749) interest re-
ceived.
Two divs were paid during the year
—ls. 9d. on June 24, 1960 and Is. 9d.
on December 9, 1960, absorbing in all
£455.000 (unchanged) and representing
an aggregate 70 p.c. return on face-value
of scrip Since the close of accounts, an-
other div. has been paid, again at the
/ate of Is. 9d. a unit —June 23, 1961.
Since its incorporation in 1935, Central
Norseman has paid out just over £4.8
million in divs The big profits wen in
recent years have been largely the result
of extensive development and shaft sink-
ing, aimed at reaching the higher grades
available at depth, and extensions to plant
capacity.
Central Norseman is in a strong
financial position with total reserves and
undistributed profits figuring a massive
£2,605,982 (£2,539,876). Current assets
weigh up £583,962 (£629,948), stocks and
stores £534,569 (£486,682) and current
liabilities £83,216 (£92,358).
Ore-reserves at balance-date were an
estimated 472,000 tons, averaging 10.0
dwts. per ton, compared with 504,000 tons,
9.2 dwts. in 1960.
The co’s ss. shares are priced at 375. on
Sydney ’Change offering 9.5 p.c. tax-free.
Timor Oil Ltd
Oil Ltd reports (September 13,
1961) that drilling in Timor at Matai
No. 3 well has continued over the last
few days and a depth of 1578 ft. has now
been reached in siltstone with sand
streaks.
Over the past two weeks testing opera-
tions have been carried on at the 800 ft.
horizon at both Matai Nos. 1 and 3.
Matai No. 1 was reopened and per-
forated. The oil and gas shows
encountered in both wells at the 800 ft.
horizon do not appear to warrant further
testing at this stage.
Clarence River Basin
Clarence River Basin Oil Explora-
tion Company N.L. reports that the
major overhaul of the rig has been com-
pleted. Drilling is proceeding at a depth
of 1522 ft.
"Tourists"


The
WA« | ,
MARS
» 26SEP 196 IH>
**§> it '
'tyj
CENTRIFUGAL PUMP
I
4
L j
. - <
o
mm
The MARS 8/6 “DR YWELL”—Gravity/Suction
PUMP
TYPE RANGE
' GRAVITY
SUCTION
- GLAND
CORROSION RESISTANT
_ HEAVY SOLIDS & SLURRIES
SPLIT CASING
RUBBER & HARD
METAL LININGS
EASILY MAINTAINED * HEAV'
DUTY • INTERCIIAN GE ABLI
ACCURACY • HIGHLY EFFI
CIENT GRAVITY/SUCTION AN]
GLAND TYPES
All Industry’s Pump for
CHEMICAL MINING
OPEN CUTS
BEACH SANDS
SAND AND SLURRII
RECLAMATION
DREDGING
SUGAR MILLS REFINERIES POWER STATIOI
IMMEDIATE DELIVERIES
REPLACEMENT PARTS ALWAYS AVAILAB]
GENERAL HANDINESS. Though “Granola” is metallic, it is plastic and has not
to be stocked in an assortment of sizes. The same uniform diameter rolls are used
for packing a £ in. spindle or a 12 in. rod.
DURABILITY. “Granola” is a metallic packing and woven packing cannot he
compared with it for long life. Hence the trouble and expense of frequent re-
packings are obviated.
ECONOMY. There is no waste with “Granola”. Nothing has to be thrown away.
When re-packing becomes necessary fresh “Granola” is added to that which
remains in the box. Ideal for Gland Type Pumps.
GOOD MAINTENANCE. “Granola” keeps the rod “like silver”, and scoring is
excluded. It does not harden or char under high temperature.
EVERY APPLICATION. “Granola” in 3 grades, for saturated and super-heated
steam, hot and cold water, sea water, acids, gases, and most fluids and semi-fluids.
“Granola” is made up in uniform plastic “sticks” which can be moulded to any
convenient thickness for feeding into a stuffing box. When the gland is screwed
down a compact metallic ring is formed.
Where woven packings are used, the addition of a central ring of “Granola” will
give more “body” and much longer life. It will also reduce friction to a minimum.
IN 2 lb. PACKS and 14 lb., 28 lb. and 56 lb. BOXES
' PHONE OR WRITE FOR LITERATURE
“GRANOLA” FLASH
METALLIC PACKINI
i
Roughly Moulded—for feeding into a small
Stuffing Box
e,*s
m
MARS Machine Tool Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRIDGE STREET, THE VALLEY, BRISBANE
REPRESENTATIVES:
NEW SOUTH WALES: Alfred Snashall Pty. Ltd.,
Box 39, Q.V. Building, Sydney.
VICTORIA: Thomson & Carroll Pty. Ltd., Ampol H<
6th Floor, 792 Elizabeth st., Melbourne, Victori
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Mining Supplies (S.A.) Pty. 3
622 South Road, Edwardstown, South Australia
