

The Bulletin
and The Observer
Price''l/^
THE SOUL OF
BRISBANE
in Australia for transmission by post aa & newspaper.
The Collapse of
the Universities
Mr. Carver
v. The Peonle
How To Develop
Queensland?


looked like this
mm
m
m
Mim.
Mi
' -4 - 85
3
L
: JL\
/
MM
", ,n v, .
;mm
' ' •■ * : Vi
liiiiiil
ilifli
■:;■ ;; ; s
L
■<r~
X
RI3M
MODERN A.M.P. POLICIES are geared to modern
needs. Young men and women require savings plans
“tailor-made” to fit their individual needs. With the
right plan, saving is easy. Ask any A.M.P. man or
A.M.P. office for a copy of “The Golden Years” a
special leaflet on young people’s savings plans.
Australia’s LARGEST and oldest
life assurance organisation
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Office* In cities and towns throughout Australia and New Zealand and in the United Kingdom,
A.M.P. members enjoy the unquestioned security afforded by funds of £500,000,000
which the Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to members.


The
Bulletin
JULY 8. 1961
Vol. 82
No. 4247
ANSWERS TO
CONTRIBUTORS
B.N.F.: At any rate you're
nice and early for spring:
J.K..: There must be millions of
these mournful types sitting by the
lake or the sea or the pond waiting
for the girl to come along who
will make life beautiful and sig-
nificant and the author who will
make the event the subject of his
first short story.... “Aedess” :
Would have gone well in the Syd-
ney “Mail” when the Sydney
“Mail” was going well. . . . 8.R.:
Your fishing story was the one that
got away... .C.K.: We are avoid-
ing “Unguarded Moments"....
H.L.: Less a short story than an
obituary.... W.C.: Your sketch,
too. may feel “It's bonzer to be
back at Bunyip”... .8.H.: An
old - fashioned murder. .. . 1.M.:
“Something for Herself” is not for
us. . . .T.W.S.: Your stream of
consciousness is too shallow....
G.T.C.: A half-baked slice of life
. ...M.W.: Your “ship things.”
etc., a bit too picturesque....
J.K.: As you say, “these stories
tend to color as the years go by,”
but that doesn't improve yours. ...
T.R.P.: Well, you mean we 11....
J. MacK.: As far as school stories
go we’re a bit class-conscious: the
same goes for “fairy-tales for older
children”.... R.T.: Sorry.
iit. AD OFFICE: 252 George Street
Sydney; Box 2521; Phone: 27 5V 7 /
NON-EASTER PANELORESCENCE
September-December: autonature
Sweeps cultural the mindscape
universe
The world subsequent on not in the
march
For vivifying austral lands.
Wattles, black and green and Coota-
mundra,
Silver and golden, the skies emblazon
With gilding light, yearly resurrec-
tion,
Distributing graft-halos out ahead
As beamed sun-tracks path-lind
east-west, north-south,
Bearing Aeolian Eden's creation
With fronting days and seasons in
the van,
Impregnating horizoned atmospheres
With animating warmth for animals,
Bees, butterflies, earthworms, vege-
tation . . .
IN THIS ISSUE
The First in the Field
There must be something wrong with Australian publishing policies
when there is an increasing number of Australian writers who are
widely published abroad without once being published in Australia.
Peter Shrubb, the author of this week’s short story, is one of this num-
ber. His stories have been accepted by “The New Yorker,” “The London
Magazine,” “New Campus Writing,” “Antioch Review,” and “Trans-
Atlantic Review” but this is the first time he has been published in an
Australian magazine. (The “London Magazine” story, “A List Of All
People,” was republished in the latest “Coast to Coast” and was widely
regarded as one of the best two or three in the collection.)
The son of a school-teacher, Peter Shrubb was born in Yass, N.S.W.,
in 1928 and grew up in various country towns. He was educated at Sydney
Grammar School and Sydney University, and then worked for a few years
on the A.B.C. before going to Stanford University, California, on a Stan-
ford Writing Scholarship which he won largely on the strength of the
manuscript of an experimental novel he has since abandoned. He was the
first Australian to win one of these scholarships; later winners are Evan
Jones and Christopher Koch who is at Stanford now. At present Peter
Shrubb is teaching English at Sydney Technical College.
The theme of nearly all his stories is childhood or more exactly the
relations between children and parents. Characteristically this is one of the
themes of the story in this issue, “Other People’s Houses,” but it also
treats with great subtlety the wider theme of Australian attitudes to
the Old World and suggests how one’s reverence for the glories of the past
may actually brutalise one’s sensitivities. It says, perhaps, more about the
general subject of expatriatism than a score of articles could.
Although we are pleased to be the first Australian magazine to publish
Peter Shrubb, “Quadrant” will be publishing one of his stories in its next
issue.
The Next Six Years
“TRAGICALLY enough universities never collapse dramatically,” says
Professor D. C. Rowan in the current “Australian Quarterly.” “They
slowly and gently decay.” This is certainly what is happening to Australian
universities today and the tragic thing is the Universities Commission is
concealing and even encouraging the decay. Professor Rowan’s article is
the most outspoken description and denunciation of this state of affairs
that has yet been made. He predicts that over the next six years
staff/student ratios will grow worse, that failure rates will rise or standards
drop, that quality of staff will fall, teaching hours increase and research
hours decrease, that honors schools will decay, that academics will begin
deserting the universities for industry, commerce, the Treasury, C.5.1.R.0.
or abroad, that their jobs will be filled by men and women of inferior
ability; that post-graduate work will diminish, discussion between pro-
fessors and undergraduates become a rarity, and an atmosphere of intel-
lectual excitement be hard to find. “Perhaps this is what Australia wants.”
Because of the great importance of this article, we are publishing an
account of it in this week’s Forum section.


This Australia
TV
Political
Soap Operas
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
COLIN BEDNALL
“Unfair”
IN 1948 the Liberal party sponsored a
series of radio plays centring around
“John Henry Austral” and his family.
J.H.A. was the average Australian and
the scripts owed much to the “family
sagas” which were then a well-tried radio
piv;form. Heard all over Australia, the
plays had such a big impact at the time
that Labor, worried at the effect on its
prospects at the elections due in 1949,
devised a formula which knocked John
Henry right off the air.
This took the form of legislation for-
bidding the radio dramatisation of politi-
al events “then current or current in the
preceding five years.” The bill went
through in the teeth of vehement opposi-
tion from the Liberal and Country
parties, though when these parties took
over the Government in 1949 the matter
was forgotten. The legislation lay on the
Statute Book and in 1956 was extended
to cover TV as well. Now the A.L.P.
campaign in the Victorian State elec-
tions has been knocked awry by this
legislation and a series of TV advertise-
ments which the party prepared for
screening over the two Melbourne com-
mercial stations has been banned under
its provisions.
One of these showed a man clipping
his hedge in front of a suburban home
and, as the camera moves close-in, he
says: “I’m a worker in the building in-
dustry. At least, I was. I’ve lost my job.
That’s what Menzies’s credit squeeze and
Bolte's so-called Government have done
for me. Our only chance now is for a
Labor government to be elected.” Then
followed a slide reading, “Stop this rot in
industry,” as a voice boomed : “Vote one,
Australian Labor on July 15.”
When two of Labor’s films were sub-
mitted to station GTV9 as paid advertise-
ments, the management sent the script,
but not the film itself, to the Broadcasting
Control Board, for a ruling on whether
they contravened the Act relating to
dramatisation. In a very ambiguous
reply, the board said that “it appeared
that the scripts would constitute the
dramatisation of current political matter,”
but pointed out that it was not pur-
porting to interpret the Act as this was
a job for the courts.
It sent a copy of its letter to the other
commercial station, HSV7, as a result of
which both stations refused to show the
films.
The A.L.P. State Secretary, Mr Cyril
Wyndham, complained bitterly about
“political discrimination” by the board.
GTV9 gave him free time to explain his
grievance and afterwards the station’s
general manager, Mr Colin Bednall, came
before the cameras. “It is unfair to
blame the Control Board for the incident,”
he said. “The responsibility rests with
Parliament . . . the board can do no
more than administer the law as it is
handed down to it by Parliament.”
By this time some 14 A.L.P. films were
involved in the ban. The manager of
HSV7, Mr Keith Cairns, then announced
that while his station would not screen
the films which the board had knocked
out. it would make up its own mind in
future on whether the dramatisation law
was being infringed.
With the election so close, there
is probably not enough time for Mr
Wyndham to seek redress in the courts.
With a score of unusable TV films on
his hands, it is probably no consolation
to Mr Wyndham to learn that the Liberal
and Country parties have also been hit in
a minor way by the drama ban. The
manager of 3UL, Warragul, Mr C. M.
Cameron, asked the L.C.P. to “tone
down” a series of one-minute commer-
cials which the party's organiser, Mr
Leigh Warriner, arranged for use over
the station. One of these stark slices of
life runs thus:
Mum: Oh, come in, Dad. Breakfast is
ready.
Dad: Good, I need it, too. There is a
lot of work now with the calves to
feed.
Mum: By the way, Dad. What are we
going to do about this voting?
Dad: Well, I have had the Country
party, and the A.L.P. was never any
good for a farmer.
Mum: I’m so glad to hear you say that,
Dad. The L.C.P. are standing a
lady-farmer candidate in Gippsland
West and all my friends want to see
a woman representative in Parlia-
ment.
Dad: Good, then we’ll both vote for
Miss Toni Garside, L.C.P. candidate
for Gippsland West.
Mr Warriner took the station’s refusal
in good spirit. “The ads in their present
form are hard-hitting,” he said.
CENSUS
Calling Barley?
FROM K. G. WILLEY IN DARWIN
HThe Northern Territory sets what must
be one of the world’s toughest census
problems. Hundreds of square miles are
roadless and the collectors usually
policemen in the more remote areas —
often have to ride camels and horses into
isolated mining and stock camps where
wheeled transport will not go. Thousands
of illiterate aborigines do not make the
problems any easier for the 54 collectors.
Last census —in 1954 —one collector
covered 2400 miles on wheels, foot, horse
and camel - back. Constable Frank
McTighe, who had the desolate Harts
Range district of Central Australia, was
out for 16 days. He worked through
that time from daylight to almost mid-
night often using the light of his car
headlamps while taking down particulars
of wandering aborigines.
He recorded one day’s activities with
the laconic report: “The pump arrived
at 1 p.m. By 4 p.m. I was on the way
but had gone only a mile w'hen the pulley
on the generator collapsed. I was again
driven to the camp 18 miles away and
managed to borrow a pulley of some
sort. This pulley pulled the fan belt
around the corner a bit, but it worked,
so at 7 p.m. I again commenced. Having
gone another mile or two, the engine was
boiling badly. This was my fault. In my
hurry I forgot to cut the holes for the
water to pass through the pump. Finally
got under way after fixing the water
pump gasket in the dark and collected
the census at six camps before I camped.
Had to pull several miners out of bed,
sat on the side of the beds of others and
helped them fill in the form.”
He chronicled pages like this, adding
philosophically: “Nothing else happened,
apart from continuous blowouts, break-
ing the pump, borrowing another one,
borrowing patches. Finding a fencer I
bogged the car in sandy creeks twice and
walked three miles. I had no trouble
getting the car out of the creeks. Just


let the tyres down, drive out, and pump
them up again.” On reporting back to
Alice, he recorded. “I received various
answers that indicated I should have
completed it in half the time.”
At Finke the collector was plagued by
the constant movements of aborigines
who rushed from hut to hut to tell friends
of his approach. He counted one man
three times before he woke up.
This time the Census officials have
called barley on only one score —the
completely nomadic aborigines They
will not be going out into the desert to
catch the nomadic Pintubis and count
heads and they will not have to count the
50 to 100 renegade lepers in the Gulf
Country. “We’ll leave them for next
time,” said one harassed officer.
But to count all the others the collectors
this time have taken three weeks food and
water.
POLITICAL POINTS
The Road to
Seelaf’s Job
By MUGGA
V. STOUT
No comment
\l7hen Mr Wally Curran, assistant
secretary of the Victorian Branch
of the Meat Industry Employees' Union,
told a meeting of the Trades Hall Coun-
cil recently that he was a member of the
Communist party, some were surprised,
others were not. If Secretary V. Stout
was surprised, he has so far made no
public comment. Curran had been a
member of the A.L.P. for some years
and was a former secretary of the party’s
youth annexe, the Young Labor Associa-
tion. On the ether hand there were
pointers in the fact that he also once
belonged to the Eureka Youth League
and has made a ritual pilgrimage to
Peking and Moscow where he attended
a “youth festival” in 1957.
However even in a technical sense.
Curran's admission on the floor of the
Trades Hall was hardly new's in Lygon
Street. He had allowed his A.L.P. mem-
bership to lapse last February and soon
afterwards told many of his friends and
associates that he had joined the Com-
munists. It was a switch of party cards
rather than of principles or ideologies.
But he did claim that he made it as a
protest against A.L.P. “interference” in
his union's affairs—this being his euphem-
ism for the Centra! Executive’s token
investigation of the unity ticket in the
1960 union elections.
Curran and other A.L.P. members had
stood on a ticket with the union's secre-
tary, George Seelaf, a Communist. The
election was interesting because the unity
ticket was opposed by a rival slate, not
of D.L.P. supporters, but of A.L.P. men
headed by Mr Frank Troja. The D.L.P.
is an insignificant force in the union and
the usual A.L.P. Central Executive argu-
ment that a unity ticket w ; as necessary
to keep the “groupers” at bay had no
validity.
Nevertheless, the team of A.L.P. can-
didates got no encouragement, tacit or
otherwise, from the party’s executive and
the “unity” ticket of Communists and
their A.L.P. supporters won the day.
There followed an “investigation” into
the Seelaf-Curran ticket and as a result
the Central Executive reported as follows
to the annual conference last month: “In
August, 1960, the executive officers inter-
viewed certain members of the party in
connection with the ballot proceeding in
the Meat Industry Employees' Union.
The chairman asked of the persons con-
cened whether or not they had allowed
their names to be placed on the ticket
and whether they had seen the ticket
before it was published. The three persons
concerned answered individually in the
negative and each man signed a state-
ment to that effect. At the Central Execu-
tive meeting on the 2nd of September,
1960, it was resolved unanimously ‘that
the explanations and written statements
signed by the three men concerned be
accepted.’ ”
Remarkable though this piece of
hypocrisy and evasion may be, it
is not clear, however, why the
Communist party admitted him to
membership or, in the event of Curran
already being a member, allowed him to
proclaim it publicly. From the Com-
munist party’s point of view, Curran was
an ideal “trade union cadre.” His views
and activities were in no way at variance
with those of the C.P., yet by virtue of
his A.L.P. membership he was in a posi-
tion to promote them in directions not
opened to known Communists.
A likely explanation, however,
is that Curran decided his own move
in the belief that the road to Seelaf’s
job lay through the Communist party. In
any event, relations between the two
comrades are no longer as fraternal as
formerly.
DEVELOPMENT
That Winter
Sunshine
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
'T'he covey of politicians and experts of
A all kinds who have been touring the
north of Western Australia in the winter
sunshine are coming back with some loud
and conflicting views on its development
needs. In the last month the area has
been visited by National Development
Minister Spooner, Federal Treasurer Holt,
Western Australian Premier Brand and
the Federal Government’s Food and
Agriculture Committee.
The main conflict of opinion has
centred around the establishment of a
Northern Development Commission.
This has been advocated by the Food and
Agriculture Committee and Mr Brand,
by opposed by Mr Spooner.
Among the experts backing the
appointment of a commission are Com-
monwealth Banking Corporation chair
man Warren McDonald, Atomic Energy
Commission chairman Professor John
Baxter and Mr J. H. Kelly, a beef-cattle
expert who advised the Federal Govern
ment on its beef road export plan. Mi
McDonald said northern development
would require an expenditure of
£20,000,000 a year for 10 years —and the
time to start spending that kind of money
is now In the mood of wild enthusiasm
that seems to affect most southern experts
who tour the north in the kindly wintei
sunshine, he said northern development
was essential to Australia’s safety and
should have priority over all other things.
Development money could be borrowed
in Australia or overseas. If necessary
international contractors would find labor
for projects, and those laborers would
never return to their own country. They
would become the first settlers of the
north
Supporting the development commis-
sion move, Premier David Brand said it
would eliminate competition between the
States and build up confidence which
could bring urgently needed investment.
He believed W.A. should retain control
over the northern part of its State, but
did overrule the possibility of the north-
west becoming a separate State in the
future. “The issue is not whether the
north should be governed by the State
Government or the Federal Government
or become a separate State.’' he said
“It is one of finance for development.”
Senator Spooner, who listened patiently
to a multitude of development plans
during his week's tour of the north-west,
finally said he was opposed to the idea
of a development commission. Nor did
he take kindly to any proposals to sub
sidise industries in the north. He said
a commission which would have to gather
a mass of development data might slow
down the rate of development wTich he
felt was already gathering impetus.


EDUCATION
Crisis in
Catholic Schools
FROM PETER COLEMAN IN SYDNEY
CARDINAL GILROY
Confident
Cardinal Gilroy brought things to a
head at Sutherland, N.S.W., the other
day when he told a gathering of Catholics
that “the Roman Catholic Church would
receive Government financial assistance
for church schools in the not very distant
future.” The Protestant reaction was
clear and prompt. The Rev. A. A. Lang-
don, of the Committee on State Education
appointed by the Anglican Diocese of
Sydney, said that “one million Anglicans
. . . from Milton in the south to Bunda-
noon, Wallerawang and the Hawkesbury
in the north” opposed State aid to de-
nominational schools in any form. The
Rev. H. Mac Neil Saunders, of the Presby -
terian Church, took the same stand, and
the N.S.W. Council of Churches repre-
senting nearly all the Protestant churches
launched a State-wide campaign against
State aid For the first time since 1880
the State aid question seems certain to be
a big and bitter issue in the next N.S.W.
elections
Cardinal Gilroy had some good reason
to be confident. In an attempt to catch
or keep the Catholic vote all parties
except the N.S.W. Liberals have come out
with proposals to aid church schools in
one form or another. The State A.L.P.
at its last conference recommended the
extension of bursary payments to fifth
and sixth year students no matter what
schools the children went to, and the
Country party at its last conference went
one better: as well as recommending an
extension of the bursary system to all
years of high school it recommended in-
terest-free loans up to £1 million to in-
dependent schools repayable over 30
years. The D.L.P. has always stood by
the A.L.P.’s 1951 decision to assume
financial responsibility for all primary
schools, including Catholic ones.
The Protestants themselves are not as
united as some of their spokesmen would
wish. Some Anglican Dioceses in Queens-
land support State aid, and in Canberra
the Anglicans are already receiving build-
ing loans from the Federal Government.
In Tasmania the Presbyterians have
accepted the principle of State aid in
the form of capital grants without strings.
As far as finance is concerned the
Catholic position has been mounting to
crisis point since 1956 when the credit
accumulated during the war was finally
exhausted. It is almost impossible to
work out exactly what is the financial
position since there are 388 Catholic
parishes in N.S.W. and each one looks
after its own educational finance without
any central governing body. But an esti-
mate of their position in N.S.W. can be
guessed at in this way: there were tn
August last year 167,000 children attend-
ing Catholic schools and the school popu-
lation is increasing at a rate of 6000 a
year. At 50 to a classroom that means
120 new classrooms have to be found
each year. At an average cost of £5OOO-
- per classroom (including the cost
of science laboratories) that means
£720,000 has to be found each year.
Borrowed at 6 per cent., that means a
further interest load of £43,000 each year
and a total load of about £170,000 being
carried now as a result of building over
the last four years. The next five years
will mean another 600 classrooms costing
about £3,600,000, involving a further
interest load of about £215,000. Without
State aid how can the Church find this
money? On the other hand, without it
the Catholic system could well collapse.
(Already in N.S.W. about 70,000 Catholic
children are attending State schools.)
Although some Protestants contemplate
this with equanimity, does the State
Education Department share this equani-
mity when it faces the thought of
suddenly having to find classrooms for
another 180,000 pupils? Education
already costs the Government over
£1,000,000 each week. Where would il
find another, say £300,000 each week?
The Catholics claim that the State
school system absolutely depends on the
Catholic system to educate about a quarter
of N.S.W. children, and for this reason
alone they are entitled to aid. If they
do not get it they may well have to hand
their children over to the State —even if
it does temporarily disrupt the State
system. (It is unlikely that they would
ever abandon the whole system. Some
say that if aid is not forthcoming, they
should close the Catholic primary schools;
others would prefer to close the secondary
schools. In any case the effect on the
State system would be much the same.)
What sort of aid the Catholics actually
want is not yet clear. Certainly the old
idea of increasing educational tax deduc-
tions is not very popular since it would
not help the mass of Catholics on low
incomes ; and the Canberra system of
paying interest on building loans is mainly
of help in new areas (like Canberra) where
a lot of building is necessary, but not in
older parishes. Most seem to favor an
extension of the bursary system because
it could be presented as a simple exten-
sion of social services and not as a new
and radical departure from old practices.
Whether the electorate will look at it
this way remains to be seen. Meanwhile
the N.S.W. Council of Churches has
asked all pulpits to warn their congrega-
tions of the gravity of the “threat” on
October 29 —Reformation Sunday.
MUSIC
Boorish
Audiences
FROM LINDSEY BROWNE IN SYDNEY
SIR BERNARD HEINZE
A reproach
/Concert manners in Sydney have been
under heavy seasonal gunfire in the
letter columns of the daily papers in
recent weeks, and, though it is apparent
at current concerts that some concertgoers
are turning themselves in knots as they
try not to cough, Sydney’s reputation as
one of the most ill-mannered concert
audiences in the world is not diminishing.
Sydney’s concert boorishness goes
far beyond mere coughing. Some cough-
ing has to be allowed for, as does some
steady rustling of the lozenge packets.
But when the Sydney Symphony Orchestra
played Strauss’s “Heldenleben” recently
several people in the gallery got up and
blundered out, not merely catching the
eye of the whole audience and breaking
the chain of others' attentive listening
but also doing nothing to avoid a heavy
thump of footfall and a full-blooded
swish of the door. An old man at
Mindru Katz’s recital at the Sydney Con-
servatorium stood up during a set of
preludes and made as if to go home,
shuffled to the door, then decided he
would stay and sat down with a great
crash of chair, only to get up and go
again.
Sir Bernard Heinze recently reproached
an audience at Sydney Town Hall for the
apathy which made applause so insultingly
sketchy and bleak when the orchestra
gave the Australian premiere perform-
ances of Walton’s second symphony.
There is certainly a clear need for


control of the occasional ratbag and show-
off who, seating himself up on the Town
Flail’s organ steps in full limelit view of
the body-of-hall audience and of the
conductor, gives a conducting perform-
ance of his own, the whole gesticulating
masquerade invading an audience’s right
to listen to music instead of watching
ballet.
Remonstration with such concert pests
can be dangerous. I once shushed two
talkers and received a Stadium-sized
thump on the right ear. “Don’t you
well try to shush me,” protested the
assailant in language which even reached
as far as conductor Barbirolli’s ears
some 30 yards away.
AIRLINES
Alitalia
FROM DESMOND O’GRADY IN PHNOM PEHH
When Renato Velli, Australian
manager of Alitalia, released 100
pigeons at Sydney’s Mascot airport on
June 16 a dear old lady remarked: “What
a to-do!” She would have been amazed
to learn just what a to-do was connected
with the launching of this weekly Sydney-
Rome service. A swift conclusion to
protracted negotiations left barely a
month to arrange this newest service.
Velli said he did not even have a plane.
But Alitalia chartered a DCB jet from the
French airline T.A.I.
Alitalia hired the Goldberg advertising
agency on a Friday, asked for the artists’
roughs by the Monday and launched its
advertising campaign that same week.
There were only ten days to the inaugural
flight, but the campaign, mainly full-page
advertisements in Sydney and Melbourne
dailies, managed to eat up £14,000.
Add to that the cost of bringing 120
guests (dignitaries, journalists, travel-
agents) from Rome and from stops en
route for a week in Australia: Item, £7O
each for hotel expenses ; a banquet for
200 at £3 10s. a head ; two other dinners
which cost altogether £l5OO ; a trip to
Surfers’ Paradise and another £lOOO for
incidental expenses, not to mention the
cost of their kangaroo-leather presenta-
tion folders. The week’s expenses:
approximately £13,000.
At the same time 46 Australians were
guests of Alitalia in Italy. More guests
were picked up from the stopping places:
Phnom Penh, Bangkok, Bombay, Karachi,
Teheran.
Velli, pressed for the cost of it all,
said “a good fortune.” But an informed
guess puts it over £70,000 and, to judge
from its success as the fastest-growing
airline in the world, Alitalia would be
too shrewd to throw away £70,000.
Already the bookings for the third flight
to Sydney on June 28 were so heavy that
Alitalia was requesting those Australian
guests who had remained in Rome to
stay on, at the company’s expense, with
free transport to, and accommodation in,
p nv town in Italy.
Tanner
It's Great To Be independent


LAW
The Asthmatic
Mother’s Tragedy
FROM A QUEENSLAND CORRESPONDENT
DANIEL J. KEARNEY
A rod of iron
A caustic, middle - aged Toowoomba
magistrate, Mr Daniel J. Kearney,
found himself last week the centre of a
tragic controversy. On Monday he had
jailed for seven days the 29-vear-old
asthmatic mother of three children for
having stolen goods (mainly foodstuffs)
valued at £1 6s. 8yd. from a B.C.C. store.
The same morning he jailed for 48 hours
a man convicted of having stolen a bag
of lollies valued at Is. 6d. from Wool-
worths. The pattern for the severity of
the sentences had been laid the previous
Friday in a typical announcement from
the Bench by Mr Kearney that shop-
lifting was becoming prevalent in
Toowoomba, and that future offenders
would be liable for jail sentences.
It was in the case of the 29-year-old
mother that his decision had tragic
consequences. On Wednesday morning
she died in Boggo Road jail, Brisbane,
after having been sent there from
Toowoomba by police for special medical
treatment. In court the woman was
alleged to have told Mr Kearney that
she stole food because most of her
money had gone in buying medicine.
In a later press statement after the
woman's death Mr Kearney denied a
press report that she had also told him
that if he sent her to jail it would kill
her and he pointed out that she had £50
in hard cash in her handbag. A member
of a respected Toowoomba family, with-
out any previous convictions, her death
under these conditions has shocked the
State, brought an immediate message of
sympathy to her bereaved husband and
family from Mr A. Munro, the Minister
for Justice and the Attorney-General, and
placed Mr Kearney in the most un-
comfortable situation in his career.
Mr Kearney made national news
early in 1956 when he began jailing
drunken drivers without the option on
first offences. Five out of the first six
to come before him in a matter of
months received sentences ranging from
two weeks to one month, with severe
suspension of driving licences. A few
miles down the range in another C.P.S.
territory (as in the rest of the State)
motorists facing similar charges were
escaping with fines ranging from £20
to £30. Mr. Kearney was again in the
headlines when he declared a savage
blitz on motorists who failed to give
right of way to pedestrians or other
vehicular traffic. Major fines and suspen-
sion of licences were part and parcel of
this treatment, which, however, is
generally credited with having made
Toowoomba a traffic - rule - conscious
State.
Mr. Kearney rules his Court with a
rod of iron, and is respected by barristers
for his legal capacity. He also has a
newspaperman’s sensitivity for news
values and courtroom gimmicks. Child-
less, an animal-lover, his pet aversions
include bodgies, street “lairs,” and motor
cyclists who ride without silencers. A
rabid football fan, he is a devoted fol-
lower of All Whites in Toowoomba,
and his conduct at matches can only be
described as alarming. He is violently
partisan, will join in booing a referee
off the ground with the best (or worst)
of them. He describes this as a “safety
valve.” A drinker in his early days, he
is now completely abstemious, and
extremely sensitive to any charges in
this respect. A few years ago he forced
a Toowoomba man to insert an advertise-
ment in the Toowoomba “Chronicle”
apologising for remarks he had made
about Mr Kearney. For years Mr
Kearney also conducted a running feud
with Mr Eddie Cleary, doyen of
Toowoomba solicitors and president of
the Toowoomba Race Club. Late in
1955 he forced Mr Cleary to apologise
to him in court under threat of jailing
him for contempt. Mr Cleary has seldom
appeared in court since.
Completely fearless, Mr Kearney has
criticised officialdom in every sphere and
has not hesitated to reject police
evidence. At the height of his crusade
against drunken drivers, a train driver
appeared before him charged with being
under the influence of liquor while in
charge of a locomotive. The press waited
with poised pencils for a Kearney
onslaught. Instead Mr Kearney let him
off with a fine —and launched an attack
on the departmental system which could
allow such a thing to happen, regretting
that he could not have the man’s
superior officials before him in court.
In private life he is almost violently
pro-A.L.P., and there were many who felt
that had Mr V. Gair’s Q.L.P. faction been
returned to power in the 1957 split, Mr
Kearney’s career would have received at
least a severe jolt. His sentencing of the
asthmatic mother to jail and her sub-
sequent death may well provide this now
LITERATURE
Penguins
in Australia?
FROM DOUGLAS STEWART IN SYDNEY
SIR ALLEN LANE
Copyright?
"Defore he left the country, Sir Allen
Lane said that one of his reasons for
being in Australia was “to examine the
possibility of publishing Penguin books
here.”
Everybody could instantly make up
quite a list of Australian writers he would
like to see printed as Penguins. In fact,
people have been doing just that, and
writing about it, for years. But it is
not quite as easy as it may sound. One
example of the kind of difficulty the
Penguins would run up against is in-
dicated in an article by Harry F. Chaplin
of the Book Collectors’ Society in the
latest “Biblionews”: Mr Chaplin men-
tions that Norman Lindsay sold the
copyright of “A Curate in Bohemia” out-
right to the N.S.W. Bookstall Co. years
ago for a paltry £lO0 —so how do Pen-
guins, or any Australian publisher who
might be interested, do anything about
that, unless the Bookstall Co. is willing
to do a deal?
Not many books are tied up in that way
to publishers who are not now publish-
ing ; but a great many —pretty well all
that Penguins would want —are tied up by
ordinary copyright agreements, to the
Australian or English firms which first
published them. A few years ago these
firms might have been glad to release
them to Penguins for paperback reprint-
ing, but now when so many Australian
firms are themselves going in for paper-
backs—Angus and Robertson, M.U.P.,
Rigby’s, Horwitz —they are not likely to
be very eager to hand them over. In fact
most of them are now busy trying to
acquire any copyrights that have reverted
to the authors. They might perhaps
release titles to Penguins for overseas sales
only, as has been done with at least one
Australian Penguin and several Australian


mm
m
<•> .•/
m
Peace
of Mind
Have you felt that inner yearning for Peace?-*
a release from the noisy grind of a machine*
made civilization? Are you constantly reminded 1
of a treadmill of work in a static condition of
your life? Have you sought the meaning behind
the veil of modern false reality? If you have suf-
fered—this is for you.
The complacent smile of a Buddhist saint or !
messiah suggests no smug aloofness from the
world or imperturbability to its suffering. It radi-'
ates instead the consolation and confidence expe-
rienced by one who can envision a tomorrow
w'hen yet burdened with today. It subtly conveys
a feeling of hope amidst surroundings of despair.
It portrays one who has put in order his ow%
mind and found therein Peace Profound.
How to Obtain inner Peace
A free book will be sent to you giving the answer?
of Peace Profound in your practical living. The
Rosicrucians (not a religion), a world-wide philo-
sophical and mystical movement for peace, invite
you to investigate, with no obligation. Send the
attached coupon for the free book, The Mastery
of Life, which explains further or address your
inquiry to: Scribe G.F.A.
The ROSICRUCIANS (AMORC)
Box 3988, G.P.O. Sydney, Australia
Scribe G.KA.
The Rosicrocians (AMORC)
Box 3988, G.P.0., Sydney, Australia.
I am sincerely interested in a very practical and
mystical method of peace in my life. Please send me
the free book, The Mastery of Life, which explains.
Name
Address
novels printed as paperbacks in America :
but that would hardly solve the Penguins’
problem of how to get Australian books
to publish here.
.Sir Allen has dealt with our Customs
Act and our airport officials —he has yet
to overcome our copyright laws.
SPORT
Racing Crisis
FROM AN ADELAIDE CORRESPONDENT
hproubled by the decline in prize money
•-*- available over the past few years,
South Australian ow'ners and trainers
want to see more Saturday racing in
metropolitan Adelaide. For that reason
the big three —the S.A. Jockey Club,
Port Adelaide Racing Club and Adelaide
Racing Club recently offered the
Gawler Jockey Club the use of their
courses for certain Saturday fixtures. The
Gawler course is 23 miles out of town
and has been attracting far smaller
crowds on Saturdays than in previous
years, with a consequent decline in prize
money.
City clubs say that Gawler should
restrict itself to mid-week racing, which
has proved popular enough in the past.
For instance, the Barossa Valley Racing
Club's fixture there last March during
the Vintage Festival drew 8000 people
and showed a profit of more than £2OOO
—a record for any S.A. course outside
the metropolitan area. But racegoers are
increasingly reluctant to drive so far out
of town on Saturdays and would wel-
come a move by the Gawler Racing Club
to put on meetings in Adelaide.
Eight events at Gawler on Saturday,
June 17, carried stakes of only £3350
compared with Cheltenham's £5370 and
attracted an indifferent field. It was, in
fact, a second-class meeting. Racing
experts declare that the standard of
Gawler racing can only drop further as
attendances dwindle. Hence, in the
general interest of S.A. racing, the recent
offer by the big three in the city—an
offer which the Gawler Jockey Club
rejected. However, the city clubs would
have fought the matter further if the
State Government had not put pressure
on them to desist.
In view of the extra money that could
accrue to the Government from betting
tax alone, this pressure seemed difficult
to explain. The answer is to be found
in Tom Playford's “sacred cow,” the
burgeoning satellite town of Elizabeth.
This five-year-old town, less than ten
miles south of Gawler, now has 12,000
people and Playford wants them to have
every possible amenity right at their
doors to keep them happy. On the other
hand unemployment has hit its large
migrant population exceptionally hard
since the credit squeeze, so it is hard to
see how they can help to keep Gawler’s
turnstiles clicking.
The Gawder Club thinks the Govern-
ment could help much more by paying
a long-standing debt of £9OOO for certain
land resumptions and has now put the
matter in the hands of its legal adviser.
It would be an odd situation if Playford,
the man who likes slapping writs on the
Federal Government when it will not
come to heel, were to find himself faced
with legal action. But even putting the
bailiffs in will hardly solve Gawler’s
problems. Senior racing administrators
declare that the only solution is for the
Club to go to town on Saturdays and
race at home during the week.
They believe, too, that firmer action
by the S.A. Jockey Club—empowered by
the Government to control racing—could
bring about the desired state of affairs.
They point to recent action by the Vic-
torian Racing Club, which will put an
embargo, from August 1, on any meet-
ings that do not raise a minimum amount
of stake money. It looks as though the
present situation in S.A. will be brought
to a head when the S.A. Trainers’
Association hold their annual meeting
early this month.


LAND
The Goldfinch
Plan for Wool
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
MALCOLM GOLDFINCH
“Throw the book away”
“tjeople on the land are the most can-
't servative and pig-headed of all
classes,” Mr Malcolm Goldfinch, general
manager of Remington Rand’s Shaver
Division informed The Bulletin this
week. He offers this as one reason for
the present state of the Australian
woollen industry; and writing in the
current issue of “The Australian
Manager” he is the latest to come for-
ward with a sweeping proposal for
reform. Since his family has 6500 wool-
backs on a property near Narrabri,
N.S.W., he has some right to speak on
the matter.
The basic trouble with the Australian
woollen industry is that the woolgrower
is too cut off from the processor. (They
“never get closer together than drinking
at opposite ends of the same bar.”) This
means that the grower never really knows
what the processor wants —for example,
a long-staple or a short-staple wool—
and because of the traditional multiple
handling through buyers and brokers he
never gets to knew the processing merits
and demerits of his product. He remains
first and last a wool punter. Further,
wool is at present “priced by an anti-
quated auction system” favoring buying
syndicates using a special language and
offering “a type of jackpot bonus for
lucky growers who have fluked badly-
wanted staples in short supply” thereby
encouraging gambling on the land rather
than scientific growing and marketing.
The result is that not knowing his
market the producer becomes “moribund
and incapable of facing the challenge
from synthetics and modern methods of
marketing which demand new and better
raw material.”
The Goldfinch plan is that processing
(scouring, combing and carding) should
not be done overseas but in Australia.
Processors’ market surveys could then
guide the growers to match production
with demand. At present “only elemen-
tary sorting is carried out in Australia,
and all impurities and faults are freighted
with the wool.”
The sugar industry offers an example
to wool in its complex but highly efficient
marketing system. The raw material is
bought from the grower by the primary
processors and then sold overseas by the
Colonial Sugar Refinery as a contractual
marketing body for the Queensland Gov-
ernment. Mr Goldfinch says that techni-
cal experts who have built the sugar
industry should be co-opted to help
establish wool-scouring, combing and
carding plants in Australia to offer
standardised fibres required by market-
ing teams to compete with synthetic
offerings. “The pioneers were good
marketing men and they chose wool as
a commodity worth exporting because
of its marketing potential.”
Showing a remarkable disregard of
red tape, Mr Goldfinch, in advocating
the processing of wool in Australia and
the use of more efficient marketing tech-
niques, suggests one man should be
"I'd like you to meet a distant cousin."
responsible “to the Prime Minister alone"
for the implementation and establishment
of the necessary new organisations. The
person concerned should be able to
co-opt leading Australians on the land,
in industry, labor or management, and
from government departments.
“Macarthur threw the book away to
start Australia’s growth with Merino’s
wool. The book has to go again to
produce Australia’s new wool. Let’s call
it ‘Arino’ and the Australian decimal
currency unit the same.”
MIGRANTS
The Serfs
FROM EUGENE BAJKOWSKI
HThe serfs were liberated in Russia 100
years ago this month and last Satur-
day night 600 Russians gathered at Sydney
Conservatorium to celebrate the event.
Under a huge portrait of the “Tsar
Liberator’’ Alexander 11, an ageing choir
sang Russian songs and some younger
people danced traditional Russian dances.
On the platform the Australian and pre-
revolutionary Russian flags formed a
backdrop for speeches from two officials
of the White Russian Co-ordinating Com-
mittee. Distinguished guests included
representatives of other migrant com-
munities, leaders of Sydney society, and
Mr K. M. McCaw, the Liberal M.L.A.
for Lane Cove.
It was a pleasant night but if the whole
thing seemed a bit unreal —with too many
people, costumes and ideas taken out of
the mothballs for the occasion—it is
because the average Russian in Australia
couldn’t care less about the liberation of
the serfs a hundred years ago. He is a
contented, easy-going, hard-working per-
son who has fitted easily into the Aus-
tralian way of life.
There are about 14,000 “White
Russians” in Australia now —with more
yet to come from Communist Man-
churia, if the Episcopal Council of the
Russian Orthodox Church is able to
rescue them and bring them here. They
are almost all refugees from Communism
and the overwhelming majority are
Russian Orthodox by religion. Their
religious needs are attended to by Arch-
bishop Sava in Sydney, by suffragan
Bishop Antony in Melbourne, and by a
number of monastic and lay clergy.
Their community life is organised into
more than a score of social, charitable,
educational and religious associations.
The Russians are never at a loose end:
while Mr G. A. Alexis, of the White
Russian Co-ordinating Committee was
telling his attentive audience (in English)
at the Conservatorium that 100 years after
the liberation of the serfs “the liberation
of present-day Russia can only be
achieved by the people of Russia them-
selves,” most of the young Russians were
dodging the speeches and the pageantry
by dancing to gipsy music at Ashfield
Town Hall.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Pay-packet Illusions
The twelve-shillings rise in the Federal
basic wage, affecting about two-
million wage-earners, may fill the hearts
of the unthinking with joy, but a more
sober appraisal must be followed by
some foreboding.
No doubt, the Commonwealth Arbitra-
tion Commission’s unanimous decision
will wake up the economy by circulating
more money. It will appease a section
of wage-earners and please retailers and
the hire-purchase people. But even this
will be achieved at the expense of put-
ting many firms with run-down cash
balances into a tight spot.
In the long run, the higher basic wage
will certainly raise production costs, hit-
ting the industries which already find
themselves in difficulties, and unemploy-
ment may increase. Consumer-goods
industries have relatively little trouble in
absorbing wage rises, which they usually
succeed in passing on to the public,
stimulating inflationary trends. But the
vital basic industries will find it much
harder to get over the commission’s judg-
ment. The rural sector will experience
immediate and considerable hardship.
Higher costs will severely impede the
export drive, at the very time when the
first favorable monthly trade balance
seemed to offer some hope of relief for
the balance-of-payments problem. The
growing gap between rural and industrial
profits will become much wider and the
chances of bridging it more remote.
When the credit squeeze is relaxed we
may find ourselves facing the same old
problems, with economic distortions still
impeding progress. After the effect of
the initial fillip wears off, inflationary
pressures will become intensified, just as
the economy will start emerging from the
present trough. This may make a
mockery of the Federal Government’s
anti-inflationary policy, and also make it
much harder for Mr Holt to bring down
next August an encouraging and flexible
Budget.
It would have been much wiser to give
some real benefits to wage-earners
through fiscal policies. Budgetary
measures can, and should, be adjusted
to fit the requirements of a dynamic
economy. On the other hand, basic-
wage increases and loadings become rigid
inbuilt devices which may choke the very
patient they are intended to aid. And
skilled labor must again experience an-
other narrowing-down of its margins,
earned by expensive and difficult train-
ing and know-how.
Finally, the average worker will in-
evitably see his latest illusory increase
eaten away by higher prices. Employers
and trade unions should concentrate on
lower costs and prices instead of trying
to swell profits and wages by paper gains.
The Death of Hemingway
TV/Tore than any other writer of this cen-
tury, Ernest Hemingway saw his
literary currency debased by imitators.
He was copied on the one hand by the
horde of tough-guy writers, on the other
by the bleak social “realists.” Both schools
copied only that part of the Hemingway
iceberg that showed—that style which,
with its insistence on the concrete and
active word, altered the course of Eng-
lish prose by refreshing its elements.
But the Hemingway style was not a
mere literary device. It sprang from a
view of life. And this the imitators could
not copy—because it was a different view
of life from their own. He was pre-
occupied throughout his life and work
with the “authentic gesture,” the need
for the individual to realise himself
through struggle, and in accordance with
a personal or given code, against forces
which must always defeat him in the end.
He found this romantic stoicism, this
almost medieval regard for chivalry and
“grace under pressure,” expressed most
fully and simply in the lives of bull-
fighters, boxers, soldiers; yet he was
always concerned to demonstrate it with
classical exactness, to state the action
truly and let character and “message”
emerge between the lines. It was this
quality, no doubt, which led the exist-
entialists to see in his work a demon-
stration of their doctrine that “a man
is what he does.” But there was more to
Hemingway than that; the brutally direct
sentences seem to spring from a sensi-
tivity which violence and horror—par-
ticularly the violence and horror of
World War I as experienced by a roman-
tic-minded boy from Illinois have
turned upside-down.
“I began with arithmetic,” Hemingway
said of his development in writing after
he had published “The Old Man and the
Sea,” “and now I am in calculus.” In
his last years he seemed to be trying
to do in his own way what Edmund
Wilson has described as the most striking
achievement of all the great 20th-century
writers —to combine symbolism and
naturalism within the limits of the single
work. There will be arguments about
his success or failure here as in the
simpler aims of his early work. But this
can be said for Hemingway: his cool,
heroic view of life had more sensitivity
to it than the muddled, sentimental
cynicism of his imitators.
Bedevilled by
Sectarianism
Tt is time there was a really thorough
debate in this country on the question
of State aid to Church schools. The
question has been so bedevilled by sec-
tarianism that the more bigoted anti-aid
spokesmen no longer bother to argue their
case: they simply exert pressure. In the
long run this may do their cause more
harm than good. Protagonists who have
no arguments are likely to be kept tongue-
tied when the side they are attacking
produces its arguments. Apart from
hatred of Catholics, the more narrow-
minded opponents of State aid seem to
have forgotten why they oppose it.
It is surely intolerable that this should
be debated in such a hole-in-the-corner
way, with an over-riding impression that
anti-Catholicism, rather than a concern
for educational principles, is all that is
being discussed. On ordinary liberal
grounds the Catholics appear to have an
extremely strong case: difference in
educational approaches is to be encour-
aged, not frustrated, in a democratic
society ; it is not necessarily in the
interests of education that it should
follow a uniform pattern laid down by
Government officials; and it certainly
seems odd that Catholic parents should
be taxed to maintain schools they do not
wish to send their children to. The
answers to these objections are usually
of an authoritarian kind. Sometimes
(when it is suggested that no indoctrina-
tion goes on in State schools) they are
also dishonest.
More usually the cases for either side
are not publicly stated. This is partly
the fault of the Catholics, as well as of
their opponents. There are times when
they seem to be afraid to state their case
in public controversy —and when those
who attempt to state it for them find
themselves as fiercely attacked by
Catholics as by their opponents.
BY OBSERVER


The Soul of
Brisbane
Who really runs Equality City?
By JOHN HIGGINS
PREMIER FRANK NICKLIN
A shirt-sleeved city?
IT has been said of cities, as of people, that to love them
you must first leave them, and many a Brisbane exile is
tormented by his memories . . . rattling in a tram around
Petrie Bight to the Customs House on a wine-like even-
ing, the Story Bridge a stark silhouette against the backdrop
of crowded New Farm . . . Brisbane in November, stretching
voluptuously beneath the first hot caresses of a northern
summer, with the jacarandas in early bloom, hanging like
puffs of purple smoke on every wooded headland . . .
schoolboy scullers crawling like water beetles up the long
stretches at Toowong ... a steam engine solemnly shunting
across the crowded 'Gabba intersection . . .
There are people who know Brisbane well who say it
has no soul, no definite personality, that it is of no particular
gender; that where one can easily see Melbourne as an
elegantly feminine city, and imagine Sydney as a magnifi-
cently raffish tart, it is difficult to drape Brisbane in any
romantic aura. Perhaps it may well be that Brisbane could
strike most observers as essentially masculine, “square,” a
matey shirt-sleeved city, its angularities and brashness to be
explained by its comparative closeness to the soil. For if
the egalitarian animal still exists in any numbers in Aus-
tralia his natural habitat would probably be found around
Brisbane.
Here is a truly truncated society, without a head or
nether regions, a city without an easily recognisable privi-
leged class, which might provide active leadership in civic
and State affairs, and a city without an easily discernible
under-privileged or slum population.
The reason for the lack of a privileged ruling or paternal
class is probably the fact that for almost half a century (up
until 1957) Queensland was ruled by Labor Governments.
Under semi-Socialist leadership, the privileged class got no
privileges, no knighthoods, no decorations, fewer still social
perks and plums. With no privileges it refused to accept
responsibility and inverted to the anonymity of its own
ranks.
Brisbane is also a capital that is not really regarded as
such by a major portion of the State. Sea transport his-
torically takes precedence in the development of Queens-
land. and it was not until 1903 that Central Queensland
was linked to southern Queensland by anything other than
sea transport; and the coastal railway system was not com-
pleted until 1924. Until then, as the Queensland Year
Book points out in an acutely perceptive passage. Brisbane
was the commercial capital of the southern district only,
and the trade of the central and northern ports was largely
distinct.
It is still distinct, despite the telescopic effect of rail
and road transport, so much so that all parties in Queens-
land have formally recognised the need for a New State in
North Queensland, although all of them stall on its actual
implementation. And it is most distinct socially. The
wealthy central and north Queenslander, for instance,
regards Show Week in Rockhampton or Townsville as a
bigger social “must” than Show Week in Brisbane —and he
tends to regard Brisbane merely as a stop-over on the way
south to Sydney and Melbourne. The distance alone
involved in travel from Central and North Queensland has
kept this class from developing a strong social set in Bris-
bane. Even in south Queensland, Toowoomba and its sister
towns on the Downs and south-west hold themselves reason-
ably aloof from capital city society.
On top of that, Brisbane is still basically a branch
manager city, a commercial satellite of Sydney and Mel-
bourne. It is not a financial centre —it is nowhere near as
strong as Adelaide in that respect. In those three southern
capitals the managers of the main Australian institutions,
banks, shipping, insurance and land companies, for instance,
are big-time—with commensurate incomes, expense
accounts, homes and a way of life that matches that of theii
more important clients. In Brisbane, as one disgruntled
Queensland businessman put it recently, managers almost
have to phone Sydney or Melbourne to find out if they can
paint an office lavatory, and their incomes, expense
accounts, way of life, etc., are scaled down on a par with
their responsibilities.
Add to all this the fact that Brisbane has only a handful
of wealthy local industrialists, none of them in southern
class, and the social structure becomes clearer—an ant-
heap instead of a mountain, or even a respectably sized hill.
nrO find the core of Brisbane’s headless society one prob-
ably should forget such things as Government House
functions, birthday honor lists, social functions, etc., and go
straight to the membership books of a discreet club in resi-
dential New Farm —a women’s club. It is the Moreton
Club, which corresponds approximately to Brisbane’s 20th-
century society with Almack’s in Regency England.
Women’s clubs generally, and this is particularly so of the
Moreton Club, are not normally subject to the pressures of
men’s clubs, where politics and finance play their part.
For the Moreton Club breeding is the essence of mem-
bership requirements, and good breeding implies intelli-
gent members, because stupid members could, perhaps, be
tactless and hence not truly gentlewomanly. There are
members of the Moreton Club whose fathers were shearers
—subsequently wealthy graziers, admittedly, but whose


families were able to bridge an enormous social gulf in one
generation. There are women from extremely wealthy old
families who are not members of the Moreton Club and are
never likely to be. The club hesitates in using a blackball—
generally the procedure is for a prospective sponsor to be
informally advised not to go ahead with the sponsorship.
There are women, too, for that matter who probably would
be welcomed to the Moreton Club, but who are not
interested in joining because of family or (in odd cases)
financial reasons. All Moreton Club functions are held in
the strictest privacy. No press reporters or photographers
are ever allowed under any condition, not even to the major
Show Week cocktail party. Indeed, shunning publicity is
understood to be a normal prerequisite of Moreton Club
membership.
It would be fairly safe to say that the majority of Bris-
bane people have hardly ever heard of the Moreton Club,
and that few know its address. In the membership books of
this extremely well-run exclusive social backwater, how-
ever. the inquisitive contemporary historian could come
closer to locating the State's top 200 as distinct from the
city’s top 2000 than through any other single Queensland
organisation. And. more than anything else, the club
typifies the State’s curious social inversion. Its members
know who they are. the people who matter know who they
are —and they do not see why anyone else should be
interested.
ADEN’S clubs, however, play an important role behind the
scenes of State and civic politics. The four main clubs
in Brisbane are the Queensland, Brisbane. Tattersall's and
Johnsonian. The hard core of the Queensland Club revolves
around major grazing and meat exporting interests; the
Brisbane Club represents the city’s commercial interests;
Tattersall’s the racing fraternity, which includes a strong
legal-medical following; and the Johnsonian the city's pro-
fessions —legal, engineering, architectural, academic, sur-
veying and so on. The first three are vigorous political pres-
sure groups, particularly the Queensland Club and the Bris-
bane Club; while the Johnsonian is thought of as happily
and intelligently democratic, no great respecter of titles or
position, reasonably intellectual and aloof from the vicious
practice of sectional blackballing.
The other three clubs have poor records in this last
respect. Indeed, it was a series of three blackballs emanat-
ing from the Brisbane and Tattersall Clubs that precipitated
the Gair Government’s controversial club legislation of
1956. under which citizens were given legal redress against
a blackball by a registered club. Repeal of this act was one
of the first actions of the Nicklin-Morris Government. The
Gair Government argued that private registered clubs
obtained certain privileges from the Government and could,
therefore, be held to account for their actions. While it
agreed that a Masonic Club, for instance, should not be
expected to admit Catholics, or vice versa, it argued that the
ordinary citizens’ club should not be entitled to defame a
person as it does in effect when a malignant organised
minority (entrenched by the apathy of the majority of mem-
bers) decides to blackball a reputable individual for purely
personal or factional reasons.
Mounting Labor hostility towards the entrenched clubs
came to a head with the blackballing in rapid succession
of three eminently reputable city businessmen. The Bris-
bane Club rejected Mr “Big Bill” Edwards, the man who
in post-war years rejuvenated the Queensland Lawn Tennis
Association and brought the Davis Cup to Brisbane; and
the Tattersall’s Club blackballed the managing director of
a big firm of wholesale and manufacturing tailors, and a
leading mercer.
Edwards was said to have been blackballed because
of his A.L.P. affiliations —-he stood twice as Labor Lord
Mayoral candidate. The mercer was said to have been black-
balled because of a racial bar—he is a prominent member of
a Lebanese family which enjoys top Catholic social rating
in Brisbane. The other man was also said to have been
blackballed on racial grounds—because he was a Jew.
Be all that as it may, the Gair Government acted
quickly, including a provision in the Act that forced metro-
politan clubs to have a minimum membership of 500 if they
were to retain their liquor licences Only one person ever
took action against a blackball (against Tattersall’s) under
this legislation—and won his case hands down. The legisla-
tion certainly had the effect of opening membership ranks
in many of the exclusive clubs, although it also created
unprecedented personal bitterness.
1 he Queensland Club, oddly enough, was not involved
in blackballing at the time, but it is the grand champion of
all Queensland clubs in this respect, and the list of its vic-
tims possibly contains more prominent people than have
ever enjoyed membership.
The late Mr T. C. Beirne, for instance, the Valley
mercer whose name is part of the commercial history of
Brisbane and Queensland was blackballed by the Queens-
land Club. So, too, was his son-in-law, the late Chief
Justice Neal Macrossan. The famous Queensland bone
specialist and humanitarian. Dr Charles Meehan, shot
dead by a maniac in Wickham Terrace in 1958. was
another. Sponsors of Sir William Webb, former Chief
Justice of Queensland and now a member of the High Court
of Australia, had to work overtime to get him in (one black-
ball in seven does the trick). All these men were prominent
Catholic laymen, giving solid ground to charges that the
Queensland Club is almost violently anti-Catholic. But in
recent months another prominent Queenslander who is not a
Catholic has been added to the club’s regrettable list—
Mr Bruce Pie, leading industrialist and a post-war Parlia-
mentary leader of the Queensland Liberal Party. He can
at least console himself with the thought that he is in fairly
distinguished company.
Situated diagonally opposite Parliament House, the
Queensland Club is the spiritual home of the United
Graziers’ Association. Former A.L.P. Deputy Premier and
Treasurer Mr Ted Walsh for years has conducted a running
feud with the Queensland Club. A session barely passes with-
out some oblique or frontal attack by Mr Walsh, who
describes it as “a den of iniquity.’’ and once advocated its
resumption for a parking station site. Moves early in the
war to resume the club for the American armed forces saw
the club exercising pressure at a gubernatorial level to gain
THE QUEENSLAND CLUB
Grand [?]


a “hands-off” directive, giving some indication of the “pull”
the club can exercise in certain quarters. It is far and away
the most social of all Queensland clubs, despite the fact that
it has been “liberalised” slightly in recent years by the admis-
sion of city professional men, younger sons of graziers and
so on —largely for financial reasons.
The Brisbane Club also exercises strong pressure on
State and civic administrations, while the Tatt’s largely
confines its activities to attempts to gain the reintroduction
of mid-week racing and so on.
r_ pO the outsider, Queensland is comparatively free of
religious faction, the bitter disputes of the ’2os and ’3os
having sunk to the oblivion of ancient history. There is,
nevertheless, a strong undercurrent of religious antipathy
which manifests itself in the fields of commerce and society
and in the backwaters of State politics.
Numerically powerful, Catholics, according to the
1954 census, ranked second to Anglicans, with 316,962 of
the State’s estimated population (at the time) of 1,318,259.
(Anglicans totalled 454,095, Presbyterians 151,586, Metho-
dists 146,456, Lutherans 28,612, Baptists 20,113. Congre-
gational 9086, Salvation Army 7124, Church of Christ
6751.)
For the best part of half a century Catholics have played
a dominant role in State Parliamentary politics, the State
Public Service and the legal and medical professions. They
were encouraged to keep away from these preserves by the
existence of a strong anti-Catholic bias. It is only in recent
years, for instance, that some banks under heavy pressure
have admitted Catholics to their staffs, and there are major
firms in Queensland today, particularly in the stock and
station agency field, where Catholics are few and far
between, if at all.
On the legal front, the late Thomas William McCawley
established the first major breakthrough to hold the then
plum appointment of Crown Solicitor in 1909 under a Tory
Government, and at the remarkable age of 28 years. There
had been only two Catholic judges before him, but he con-
tinued a remarkable legal career to become first president
of the Arbitration Court in 1917, from which position he
pioneered the basis of Queensland’s present industrial and
arbitration set-up, and in 1922 at the age of 40 became the
first Catholic Chief Justice of Queensland.
After his death in 1925 he was succeeded by his great
friend Sir James Blair, a non-Catholic of Irish-Scotch
extraction, who held his high position with distinction until
his retirement in 1940. His death saw a cycle of Catholic
Chief Justices. He was immediately succeeded by the late
Hugh Macrossan, who died tragically within six weeks, and
then by Sir William Webb, who held the position for several
years before his appointment to the High Court of Australia.
Webb was then succeeded by the late Neal Macrossan,
who died in 1956 —to be succeeded by the present Chief
Justice, Sir Alan Mansfield, a non-Catholic appointment
by the Gair Labor Government. The position of Senior
Puisne Judge under a Labor Government was also given
to a non-Catholic in the person of the present holder, Sir
Roslyn Philp, the sophisticated, able, non-Labor son of
an old-time Brisbane journalist-jongleur.
A series of non-Catholic appointments by the Nicklin-
Morris Government has subsequently seen Catholic repre-
sentation on the Supreme Court at its lowest ebb for more
than a generation-four out of 13, of whom two are in the
“provinces” (Rockhampton and Townsville), and a third
president of the Arbitration Court; a fairly low percentage
rating in view of their long legal tradition and the fact that
approximately 50 per cent, of the Queensland Bar would
be Catholic.
In the Public Service, Catholic penetration because of
the excellent junior examination results obtained by Catholic
schools (in Brisbane notably Nudgee and Gregory Terrace)
became a source of embarrassment to Catholic Premiers.
The late Mr E. M. Hanlon, for instance, reached the extreme
stage of denying Catholics promotion despite their ability
on the grounds that it was “politically undesirable.” One
unfortunate non-Catholic once lost a plum job because he
had a resoundingly Irish name —and the fact that he was
one of the few Protestants to bear it was not discovered
until it was too late. Hanlon’s successor, Vince Gair, whose
courage on these and other matters was never questioned
even by his enemies, insisted that ability was the only
yardstick. Under his regime this worked out fairly evenly,
a Catholic, for instance, getting a coveted Under-Secretary-
ship—a non-Catholic the Police Commissionership, and
so on.
In State Parliament Catholics played a near-dominant
role under almost half a century of Labor Government,
beginning with the legendary T. J. Ryan’s first World
War I Labor Government. Presbyterian Forgan Smith’s
first Cabinet after the Moore Government debacle in 1932
had five Catholics out of ten, and the proportion was never
less and occasionally higher until Labor’s long rule ended
under Mr Gair and his fellow-Catholic Deputy, Mr Duggan,
in the 1957 split.
Politically speaking. Catholics have now fallen on
parlous days. There are only two Catholics in the com-
bined ranks of the Country party and the Liberal party,
and one of them is a gentleman with the “non-denomina-
tional” name of Smith. Of the A.L.P.’s 25 members, there
are only six. Majority of the Catholic members disappeared
in the Q.L.P. split. They have two out of four in the
remaining Q.L.P. members.
Strongest semi-religious influence now operating in
Queensland politically stems from the Masonic lodges, who
have always been a strong Parliamentary pressure group.
At the moment their role is dominant—with at least ten out
of 11 Cabinet Ministers (including Premier Frank Nicklin)
in their ranks. They showed their strength publicly at the
State funeral in Toowoomba of Labor Opposition Leader
Les Wood in 1959, when six of the eight Cabinet Ministers
present (again including the Premier) took part in a Masonic
funeral rite at the close of the official Anglican ceremony.
On the important legal front. Masons have the power-
ful Sir William Walker Griffiths Lodge, which includes
judges in its ranks. The Country party itself is strongly
Masonic, as is the powerful Queensland Club, regarded (not
quite correctly) in many quarters under the present political
set-up as the State’s unofficial Executive Council.
T>ROADLY speaking. Anglicanism, despite its numerical
strength, appears to hold itself aloof from the behind-
the-scenes pressure conflicts of Catholic interest v. Masonic
interest. It is content with its undisputed role of social
supremacy, and enjoys good relationship with Catholics due
largely to the affection and admiration in which Anglicans
hold Archbishop Duhig and to the definitely high stature
of their own bishops. In Archbishop Halse and Archbishop
Duhig, Brisbane is fortunate in having senior clerics of broad
and genial toleration, who have in their time set an admir-
able pattern for their respective flocks, happily sharing the
same platform on innumerable occasions and enjoying close
personal friendship. Brisbane people chuckle as they
watch these delightfully octogenarian prelates, magnificent
in their robes, assisting each other on and off public plat-
forms.
In recent years Dean William Baddeley has brought to
Brisbane some sense of the accepted social position and
assured authority which Anglicanism enjoys in England,
and despite his clashes with a wowseristic minority within


and outside his own church, can only be regarded as another
happy reinforcement to the cause of religious harmony.
Presbyterians and Methodists are the clear leaders in the
Protestant field, sharing approximately equal numerical
strength. Both these churches combine to run a limited
number of excellent denominational schools, and are on
good terms with the smaller denominations such as Con-
gregational. Baptist. Salvation Army. Church of Christ and
so on.
While not rabidly sectarian, it could perhaps be said
that they jointly view Anglicans with a certain amount of
grim suspicion (accelerated in recent years by Anglican
support for State aid for denominational schools), and
Catholics with a barely concealed dislike. As a body they
represent a highly vocal and well-organised pressure group,
which has bluffed Government after Government on certain
social issues, mainly revolving around liquor reform, s.-p.
betting, mid-week racing, denominational aid. Sunday
sport, and so on.
They have a strong “edge” on the Nicklin-Morris Gov-
ernment and their hand was seen in the closing of Bris-
bane’s legendary brothels by the Government in 1959. after
nearly 50 years of official toleration There were in the main
about five of these establishments. Situated in the heart of
the city (one in Albert Street, another in nearby Margaret
Street and three across the Bridge in South Brisbane, includ-
ing the famous “Elsie’s” and “Killarney”) they were incred-
ibly sordid. Their only saving virtue (if one may use the
word) was that the girls were regularly inspected at Govern-
ment expense. Failure of a girl to report weekly to the
William Street office of the Health Department for her
check-up could result in her being picked up by the police
for soliciting. Associated with these “disestablished”
houses of ill-fame, whose post-war annual income was con-
servatively estimated at £50.000. is a long story of corruption
and intrigue in high places and low. The opportunities for
blackmail were obvious —and there is not the slightest doubt
that full advantage was taken of the situation.
Their closure was one of the unpublicised landmarks
in the State’s post-war history. The decision was not a
political one. It was on a police level, and it was enforced
while Commissioner Bischof was out of the State. Like
Humpty Dumpty. once broken, this egg cannot be put
together again. They are gone for ever, these old houses—
no Government would ever dare permit their re-establish-
ment.
I said at the beginning that it is difficult to drape Bris-
bane in a romantic aura. Yet for those of us who really love
the place she is a hoyden-prude who lays her careless fingers
around your heart until you fall victim of this fantasy: she
becomes a sort of athletic and shameless urbin gamin, her
skin the cream of frangipani, her mouth a slash of poinciana,
her eyes the shadowed mystery of park and garden, her bed-
lamp an August moon, her chandelier the Southern Cross —
and through her and in her and around her always the dark
artery of the Brisbane River, running deep and wide, lapping
here against a barnacled pier and there against a broken
garden retaining wall, sensuously indolent, somnolent and
indestructible in an age of disorder and wild change. Out-
siders. of course, just don’t see it that way . . .
Mr Carver v. the People
The U.K . census was carried out with more sophisti-
cation and less impertinence than the Australian.
By RAYMOND HARRIS
IT is interesting to contrast the comparatively crude and
impertinent form and content of the Australian census
with the one carried out in the United Kingdom two
months ago The differences begin at the top. The
U.K. census was conducted by the Registrar-General, under
the direction of the Minister of Health, and most of the
census officers were the local registrars of births, deaths
and marriages. Our census was organised and directed by
Mr S. R. Carver, the Commonwealth Statistician, whose
bureau is responsible to the Treasury —a link which stimu-
lates in many citizens images of taxation investigations and
licence checks.
But, reservations or not. our census form had to be
completed correctly with a penalty of £lO for not answering
and £SO for a wrong answer. In the U.K. the penalty was
a flat £lO. Attempting to allay doubts about the uses to
which this undeniably personal information may be put. Mr
Carver has had to point out repeatedly that under the Act his
bureau is protected from all other Government departments,
including Taxation and Security; that for the period of the
census every person coming in contact with census material
is bound by an oath of secrecy; and that in any case quite
soon after the actual census-collection the names of indi-
viduals disappear, the census forms themselves are
destroyed, and all the information obtained is lumped into
totals of various kinds.
The Australian census also includes some questions
about an individual’s private life which the United Kingdom
decided not to ask its citizens. The U.K. census, for
example, has no interest in the individual’s religion, race,
or possession of a television set. In any case, a study of the
religious statistics from previous Australian censuses, how-
ever. yield little apparently useful information. The most
noticeable facts are that more people these days describe
themselves as “Catholics” rather than “Roman Catholics”
(30 years ago it was the opposite) and that a fairly constant
10 per cent, of the population keep their religion to them-
selves.
The question about “race” that appears in our census
forms is based upon such confused terms of reference that
the results must be of very doubtful value to anyone. Mr
Carver’s definition says that “race” does not refer to


::*XvXv>
YOUR
FAVOURITE
BRANDY
- •
-I
is
;.
mm
PS
fine Australian
pot-still i
T
- BRANDY
ALSO ASK FOR ANGO V E ' SWINE
“ethnic origin,” but is “based on geographical rather than
enthnological descriptions.” He then says that “all persons
of European race, wherever born, should write European,”
The “geographical description” of a white South African or
American as “European” seems rather less than precise, in the
circumstances, as does the classification of “Torres Strait
Islander” and “Syrian, Lebanese” as separate “races.”
The continued command to persons with one parent of a
different “geographical description” to describe themselves as
“half-caste” also sounds a jarring note, hardly calculated to
assist the smooth and unobtrusive assimilation of our own
aboriginal population, which is the avowed policy of the
Federal Government.
The U.K. census simply asked everyone to state the
country of birth, and whether a Commonwealth citizen or of
other nationality. (A specimen included in the census form
showed a girl born in Jamaica as a “citizen of the U.K. and
Colonies,” but gave no indication whether she was black, white
or “half-caste.”)
On the question of nationality, our census takers seem
nearly as graceless as they do about “race” by stating that the
guiding factor is “legal allegiance,” and then giving the sole
choice for Australian citizens as “British.” (In the U.K.
census anyone who gives the country of birth as England is
expected to leave the “nationality” column blank.)
Another question which has caused a certain amount of
apprehension, particularly among those with part-time jobs,
is that asking for precise details about employment and
employers. This information is, of course, vital for proper
economic planning, and as important as any other data sought
in the 1961 census. But in the United Kingdom this employ-
ment information was sought from only one-tenth of the
population. This is the major difference between the two
censuses.
Tn the U.K. the census takers adopted, for the first time, a
revolutionary technique of “census sampling” in relation
to certain questions, which it is believed will yield information
as accurate for the purpose desired as a complete census. To
make it easier for everyone, and to obtain the fullest co-
operation from the public, exactly nine-tenths of the popula-
tion were given a relatively simple form to complete, concern-
ing family and housing details. The remaining tenth received
a comprehensive form, including such questions as the age
when education ended, scientific qualifications and the field
of science in which obtained and employment and unemploy-
ment. This vital tenth was chosen by precise statistical methods
which ensured that every person in the country had an equal
chance of being in the sample.
Basically every tenth household in each of the 80,000
enumerator’s districts, and every tenth person in hotels and
institutions, were chosen. To ensure a true “random” selec-
tion each district was given a number between one and ten,
allocated in order. This number became a kind of key to the
selection of the actual households.
If the number was three the 3rd, 13th, 23rd, 33rd, etc.,
households were chosen from the list compiled by the enumera-
tor of all dwellings in the area. In the next district the choice
might have been the 7th, 17th, 27th, 37th, etc., households.
The sample forms were interleaved with the regular forms
before delivery, and neither the enumerator nor the house-
holder knew beforehand which households were to be chosen.
In this way a perfect sample was obtained over the entire
country and population. Among the biases which were thus
eliminated was the one which might have occurred by choosing
the sample according to names or initials (the Ms might include
too many MacDonalds, who might, in turn, give the sample
a Scottish bias), and that which could arise from a regular
geographical method of selecting every tenth house (starting
from a corner house in every district could have brought in
too many doctors, who prefer corner houses for surgery
locations).
With his one-tenth sample, the Registrar-General in the
U.K. believes that the planners can get all the information
they want as accurately as they require it, by feeding the
data through the War Office 1.8.M.705 computer at Winchester,
jone of the largest in the country. (It will complete the 20,000
separate checking actions required for an average district of
650 people in 20 seconds, and point out those returns with
errors and inconsistencies).
Mr Carver’s data —the full treatment for every man,
woman and child within Australian territorial limits on the
night of June 29—will eventually find its way on to some
13,000,000 cards (about 10,500,000 for individuals, and about
2,500,000 for households), and by January of 1962 all the
results will be available.
One detail which we are unlikely to learn is the total
cost. It is known, however, that the cost of the computers
bought for this census (although they will of course be used
in future) runs into £250,000, and that the 15,000 census
collectors, on a daily rate of up to about £6 foi an average
of a week’s work, will take home some £375,000. Our census,
then, is probably costing the best part of £750,000 for a
population that is expected to come to 10,500,000, while the
U.K. census is known to have cost £3,000,000 for counting
about 52,000,000 people.
When all is known, however, and the new population
figure established, it will still have a hollow ring to it —for
although Professor W. D. Borrie of the National University
sententiously describes it as “a stocktaking of the whole
social structure ... a way of understanding ourselves,” the
official population of Australia still will not include the 75,000
full-blooded, original, and genuine Australians who stood up
to be counted on June 29th, but who will now be left out.


AUSTRALIA AND THE WORLD
Mr Pownley's
[?]
Shopping Bag
By "EK DUM"
TOWNLEY... formidable additions
IT is a symptom of the unease about what the next three years
may hold that there appears to be a general speeding up in
modernisation and striking power of weapons, aircraft and
ships. Australia in the naval and air departments is proving
that it is not exempt from the feeling of urgency, and Mr
Townley, Minister for Defence, has come back from overseas
with a shopping bag full of formidable additions to our not-
negligible equipment.
The French Mystere fighter has been adopted—a Mach
2 class machine yet apparently simple to fly, since Mr Townley,
a man of 55. was trusted to take it solo up to 60,00.0 feet.
Heavily armed, wide-ranging, its power unit is capable of being
made in Australia, a vital essential in adoption of any machine
for R.A.A.F. use. That it could defeat the U.S. Starfighter
104 in competition shows the quality of the French aircraft ;
but both British and French appear to have a lead in technical
design of fighters, even if they are not turning out the heavy
and fancy fast types fashionable in the United States.
With the rocket range now mature, along with its acces-
sory industrial plants, Australia has become an important
centre in Western defence, with its own independent role. In
weapon development it has produced several items highly
praised or adopted abroad. Jindivick, Malkara, the new elec-
tronic rifle target which was reported by the U.S. Army “Mili-
tary Review” to be “superior to target devices currently avail-
able in the U.S.A. and U.K.,” and some photographic devices
have put it already on the map.
The most vital development so far appears to be the
acknowledgment by the United States of Australian scientific
capability in the anti-submarine weapon field. It has found
practical expression in the agreement which Mr Townley has
brought back for the use of Woomera and the R.A.N. for the
development of the main weapon of American anti-submarine
guided-missile defence, the Mark 44 torpedo. This will be a
joint venture, while Australian defence scientists and the
R.A.N. have undertaken the production of a system capable of
delivering the Mark 44 which will be tested by joint U.S.-
Australian teams.
Obviously connected with this scheme of integration of
effort is the purchase of two Charles F. Adams class American
guided-missile destroyers for £A2O million each. The price
seems to be high, since the class was estimated to cost up to
£AB.S millions when the keel of the nameship was laid down
in 1958. It was planned for launching on the anniversary of
Anzac Day the following year, an appropriate coincidence.
However, improvements in armament may have accounted for
some of the difference in value. The ships are the very newest
of the guided-missile destroyers in service, though a nuclear-
powered destroyer is said to be in course of construction. They
are nearly as long as the old R.A.N. cruisers of the Brisbane-
Sydney-Adelaide type, but they are much lighter in construction
with a lot of aluminium in them. The last of the original
batch of 13 was launched last year, with five more to come.
They were the first of the specialised guided-missile ships, their
armament the Convair Tartar missile, 12ft long, driven by
solid propellant, rated “semi-active homing’" and capable of
destroying an aircraft at 20 miles. They have, apart from this
normal torpedo equipment and the latest submarine detection
equipment, sin. automatic quickfiring guns and rockets. With
a standard tonnage of only 3370 (full load probably over 4000
tons) and geared steam turbines developing 80,000 S.H.P., as
powerful as that of the pre-war British battleships of the
Queen Elizabeth type, their rated estimated speed of 35 knots
seems modest. Their crews —354 —will live in an air-condi-
tioned luxury which would have made those of the old coal-
burners of World War I faint with amazement.
It would have been better if these ships could have been
built in Australia where Cockatoo Dock will be short of a
ship for the first time in a generation. But apart from the fact
that time is the essence of the contract in general terms and
that presumably the vessels will be available straight away, it
is obvious that they are needed for use in the joint guided-
missile torpedo research project.
/"\ther purchases which Mr Townley made while abroad are
further evidence of world nervousness that the Communist
bloc might be moved to strike before the United States pro-
gramme of nuclear-ship development, planned to produce 150
nuclear-powered and 220 guided-missile vessels (including 75
nuclear submarines by 1967) within the present decade takes
proper shape.
Already it is being advanced at a great rate. The great
aircraft carrier Enterprise, the first of the nuclear giants which
would fill the whole of the space in Sydney between Qantas
Building in Hunter Street and St James’s Church in King
Street and between Elizabeth and Macquarie Streets, with its
batteries of huge Terrier guided missiles and 49-ton aircraft
and sealed protection against fall-out and atomic blast, is
about operational. And the six Forrestals, 76,000 tons against
her 85,000 tons full load, are all at sea. The Enterprise has
almost unlimited cruising range.
It is to integrate the Australian naval defence into the
Pacific system of the United States with its 900 vessels and
thousands of aircraft and over 600,000 men. completing unity
of action between the British-speaking peoples in global sea
defence, that the Australian Government now aims.
It involves no desertion of the old integration with the
Royal Navy —that integration continues, and actually conver-
sion of the six “Ton” class minesweepers of the R.A.N. is
beginning at the moment in the United Kingdom, and
exchange of officers and vessels and unity in operation with
the R.N. continues.
What has now come to pass is the completion of a defence
girdle round the world, which has not been easy before, for
reasons mainly connected with ourselves and our politics.


The Man on the Earid
That land of
Opportunity
How can an underpopulated Queensland develop
one-third of Australia's total occupied area?
By M. H. ELLIS
The shaded areas show where most of
Queensland’s 1½ million population is located.
(First of Two Articles)
Queensland, by tradition, is “The Land of Opportunity.”
Politicians have been mouthing the phrase for a century
and writing it on the front of their pamphlets. Indeed,
opportunities are the most enduring feature of Queens-
land’s landscape of about 670,000 square miles, going on for
eight times the size of Victoria. And they seem to be visible
to everyone. But visions are rarely realised in Queensland.
It is a land of dreamers.
From the time in the early 1850 s, when Dr John Dunmore
Lang projected his theory of a “Cooksland” reaching from the
Clarence to Cape York and divided into three regional
colonies, right up till Federation, a fight went on to realise the
dream of a Queensland divided into its three natural regions,
each of manageable size and each, climatically and in the
nature of its resources, a whole. But it has never been
achieved, even though the State’s remaining in one piece has
meant that the greater part of its population has continued
to live in its southern base with its capital further away from
its northern extremes than any capital ought to be —as far as
London is from Athens.
In an earlier day it was natural to the various parts of
Queensland’s long territory to look on themselves as the
embryos of separate entities. Unlike other States Queensland
began with three separate sea outlets and separate internal
railway systems and thus thought politically to a very large
extent as three separate political units. But the coming of the
railway which linked Gladstone and Brisbane to Rockhampton
and its west, and later the linkage of Mackay and Townsville
to the south by rail, ended the period of isolation.
Queensland remains a great, gangling State made up of
scarcely related regions ; some sparsely populated but pam-
pered ; some in the south overspending, largely with resources
culled from the less-favored portions of its immense socialised
territory ; some desperately neglected.
The Queensland Government has on its hands a trifle less
than one-third of the whole occupied area of the continent.
Of this, 360,000 square miles —more than half —is in the
tropics. Two-thirds of its State area carries only 72,000 people,
and much of it only just comes within the definition of
“occupied.” Can it be said that areas bigger than Belgium
with a population of 318 (Croydon Shire), or bigger than
Ireland with populations of anything from 240 to 660 (Diaman-
tina, Bulloo, Carpentaria Shires), are “occupied”? Does the
scattered area of the Cape York Peninsula proper, in which,
pending the development of Weipa, 3500 people inhabit an area
as big as England and Wales, consider itself “occupied”?
Everybody has always agreed that it should be effectively
occupied for national reasons such as defence ; but the first
great problem that hits Queensland Governments is that in
terms of occupied area it has less financial resources for
development per acre (save for one resource of Crown land)
than any other part of the eastern section of the Continent.
With several different regions with entirely different sets of
problems to handle, Queensland has only one-seventh of
the Australian population.
The essential factor in settlement of a new country which
has been in process of development two generations less than
N.S.W. and Tasmania is distance and spread. It must consider
development in terms of area rather than population, at least
for a long period during its rise to full settlement. But at the
same time its taxation per square mile is restricted by its
limited numbers of people per square mile. Where it has
concentrations of population, as in s.-e. Queensland, they
expect their taxes to be spent lavishly on themselves.
Mt Isa is as far from Townsville as Sydney is from Mel-
bourne The Central and South Western Railways have to go
long distances to get anywhere that would make them work-
able, much less payable, even though they were built in the
days of cheap labor and materials. The long coastal railway
—“the Sunshine Route” —linking with those that run west
from main ports, either into the pastoral areas or into the
slowly settled Dawson Valley (a goldmine of scarcely explored
resources in soils and minerals), would not survive if it did
not form a pipeline for feeding the fat capital port of Brisbane.
HThere is, of course, another aspect of communications.
Because of its long distances, Queensland took to the air
like a swan at sundown. The small aeroplane is more a feature
of life in Queensland than anywhere else in Australia. The air-
taxi is coming into its own. Commercial aircraft are always
full. The grazier or far-western businessman has thus become
a frequent visitor to the cities. And the more he sees of them
the more he feels that he is not getting his rightful cut of the
developmental money that is splashed round on public works
in the capitals or closely populated areas. And he collectively
makes a point of telling governments so every day—and on
the spot. Rarely is Brisbane not haunted by a small swarm
of propagandists buzzing round the Executive Building, tor-
menting Ministers and M.L.A.s with demands for major roads,
water, development, communications, etc.
This is very disconcerting to the political community,
many of whose members are compelled to join in on the side
of the suppliants—especially so in a State that lives on the
products of the export industries, the bulk of them pastoral


WORLD-WIDE
X 246
the light
that never
fails...
The Tilley Storm Lantern
is proof against wind
and weather. . . giving
12 hours of brilliant
light on one filling
(1£ pints of ordinary
kerosene).
For economical everyday
use, for unfailing service
in an emergency, you
can put your trust in
TILLEY.
m
Obtainable from all good Hard-
ware Stores. In case of difficulty
write to:
100% British Made
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY PTY. LIMITED
1092 MT. ALEXANDER ROAD, ESSENDON, W. 5. AUSTRALIA
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company of
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlement of claims
Directors:
ALFRED S. WHITE, Esq., Chairman; E. G. CONEN, Esq., T. K. MAGNE\
Esq., A. G. PARKER, Esq., DOUGLAS WADLEY, Esq.
H. H. MOULTON, Esq., Managing Director B J LANE, Esq., Managei
'Phone: BU 7401. (Branches in all States) 10/20 Bridge Street S\dne.
and agricultural and produced off Crown land in the main.
The Queensland economy is still just emerging out of
the age of the shepherd kings. True, figures show a factory
production of £148.5 million for 1958-59; but with a factory
employment of just over 100,000, only a small proportion are
engaged in the output of exportable goods, either interstate or
overseas, and most of those who are merely process primary
products. Queensland is a long way from being an industrial
State of the type of Victoria or South Australia. And its
industries are mainly seasonal and sensitive to world demand.
Altogether Queensland is less equipped to face depression
in the export trades than any other State and its present posi-
tion does not augur well for the future of the current Nicklin
Government. A hurricane of developmental zeal has afflicted
almost everyone in the State. Demands for roads for cattle
traffic, western water conservation and irrigation on a Snowy
Mountains scale, and huge mineral developments are being sup-
ported by teams of visiting Federal M.P.s who blow in through
the dust-haze in airliners and quickly out again, leaving a trail
of recipes behind them ; also by numerous experts who think
in terms of hundreds of millions and who have plans for
everything except the Aladdin’s lamp which the Queensland
Government so badly needs to carry out their excellent ideas.
Queensland’s share of loan money from the 1961 Loan
Council meeting was £25.5m. for State works, a million more
than last year ; £3.3m. for housing—£2oo,ooo more than last
year ; a total of £28.8m. against £27.6m. last year, plus £22.9m.
for semi-Government and local-authority purposes. Its tax
allocation was £42.7m., 7 per cent, more than in 1959-60. Its
grant showed a smaller percentage increase than that of any
other State. On a population basis, considering its spread and
problems and needs, it came badly out of the meeting. (Queens-
land receives on average only about 12 per cent, of the loan
allocation. The highest percentage on record has been 14.23
per cent, of the Commonwealth total.)
Queensland has suffered a bad drought which has spread
over the whole of its wool and coastal cattle districts —as bad
a drought as it has known in perhaps 60 years. The fall in
wool prices has robbed it of considerable normal income.
The immediate future for the export of Queensland beef to
the United Kingdom has been described by the Brisbane spokes-
man for the Blue Star Line (Vesteys) as uncertain. With the
American demand at its lowest for some time, but still ahead
of United Kingdom needs, those ships provided to carry meat
cargoes are likely to go away either empty of meat or below
quota, with ship-owners discouraged.
'“The drought has hit the State very hard. Consolidated
revenue in the past few months has suffered losses in
almost all its main departments —in railway revenue, stamp
duties, probate, timber royalties This loss is somewhere near
£500,000 a month—a lot in a State which lives on a razor edge
and which at present has the highest percentage of unemployed
of any State (3.5 per cent, of the estimated work force, a fifth
of all the out-of-works in the Commonwealth). Mr Nicklin
said depressingly after the Loan Council and Premiers’ Con-
ferences that the small increase in loan allocations meant that
it “would be difficult for the Government to avoid dismissals
from its work force in 1961-62.”
It will also be difficult to avoid the dismissal of the
Government at the next State elections unless it adopts a more
aggressive and constructive attitude. It is up against a Leftist-
dominated party which is all out to prove that Queensland’s
misfortunes are entirely due to the incompetence of the Federal
and Queensland Governments. Mr Nicklin’s difficulties have
been increased by the healing of the breach between the A.W.U.
and Q.L.P.
If it is any comfort to him and his followers, some of
whom appear to be pursuing their own ambitions rather than
those of the Ministerial team, the Opportunities of which
Queensland is supposed to be The Land are still so obvious
that everybody, from the Prime Minister down to the plane-
loads of politicians, is instantly aware of them on visiting
the State.
For nearly half a century Queensland has pinned its faith
on Socialism and seen its salvation officially in public enter-
prise and closer settlement. But the only groups that have
really done anything recently to advance the use of major
opportunities have been the “vends,” “monopolies” and “para-
sitic imperialists”—the C.S.R., Mt Isa, Vesteys, Mt Morgan,
Consolidated Zinc, Mary Kathleen, Thiess Brothers and their
like.
Socialisxii in Queensland produced bankrupt State stations,
butchers’ shops, mines (with scandals attached), unkempt rail-
ways, abandoned State enterprises of every sort, stagnation
among most of a rural population living on land which in the
main it doesn’t own at rents determined by the State.
The opportunities of Queensland remain ; but they are
opportunities mainly for giant enterprises, public or corporate,
with all the skills and resources of mass technology and capital
behind them.


FORUM
Collapse of the
Universities
The next six years will see the final decay of
Australian universities.
BY A STAFF CORRESPONDENT
IN appointing that “special and
powerful committee” to examine the
future of Australian university
education, the Prime Minister, Mr
R. G. Menzies, might have had in mind
some such alarming picture of the uni-
versity situation as that presented by
Professor D. C. Rowan’s article in the
current issue of “The Australian
Quarterly.”
According to Professor Rowan, Aus-
tralian academic standards are certain to
collapse within the next six years unless
present administrative policies are
changed, and the universities, as a result
of overcrowding and the acute world-
wide shortage of properly qualified staff,
will slip to the level of mere technical
colleges.
Formerly Dean of the Faculty of
Economics at the University of N.S.W.,
Professor Rowan is now attached to the
Economics Department of Britain's
University of Southampton. His article
is an attack on the first report of the
Australian Universities Commission.
The Australian Universities Commis-
sion was formed to advise the Common-
wealth and the State Governments on uni-
versity policy after the Murray Commit-
tee in 1957 had found Australia’s
universities to be in a condition of “crisis
bordering on catastrophe” as a result of
mismanagement and lack of finance.
Its report, as a statement of policy, says
Professor Rowan, is “a dangerous and
possibly even disastrous failure”:
“I believe that the Report will, on
balance, do the State universities great
harm and harm which will, in all
probability, prove to be irreparable. For
what, in essence, the Report does is to
impose upon the teaching universities
which are already over-strained, under-
staffed, under-equipped and (considered
simply as graduate factories) extremely
inefficient, a further three years of
unrestrained growth in student numbers.
Moreover, it does this, and by doing so
comes close to inviting a charge of
irresponsibility, knowing full well that
the qualified staff, which alone could
make such an expansion possible with-
out further deterioration in the already
dispiriting university standards, simply
are not available.”
Extenuating circumstances could be
pleaded on the commission's behalf, Pro-
fessor Rowan adds. The commission
had only about a year in which to per-
form a difficult task made more difficult
by its having to reconcile Common-
wealth and State Government attitudes,
and had at least succeeded in getting
a lot of extra money granted to the
universities. But unfortunately, says the
professor, “its positive achievements
are not enough to offset its far more
serious sins of evasion and omission.”
Tn the first place Professor Rowan
describes the commission's forecasts
of the probable future demand for uni-
versity enrolments as “misleading.” They
do not accord with past trends, he says ;
they predict too large an increase for
the faculties of engineering, law and
medicine, too small an increase for
economics and science. According to the
professor’s own estimates, the total ex-
pansion the universities will have to face
by 1966 “will consist in an increase,
over 1959, of about 48,000 enrolments
(102.5 per cent.). This expansion will,
if it follows the pattern of the immediate
past, bear most heavily on the Faculties
of Economics, Science and Arts and
least heavily on Medicine, Law and
Engineering.”
Can the universities supply this
demand for higher education without
further deterioration in the already
depressed standards of teaching and
examining? Will they be able to supply
the necessary accommodation and the
properly qualified staff?
The commission, says Professor
Rowan, hardly discusses the problem of
accommodation, tacitly assuming that
facilities are at least sufficient to meet
foreseeable needs at a “reasonable” stan-
dard. But from his own experience and
that of colleagues the professor claims
that this assumption is false, pointing
to the extreme example of the University
of N.S.W., where, he says, “uncontrolled
This section of ''The Bulletin ' is s
forum of opinion and conflicting
ideas. Each week it will contain
controversial articles and replies
to them.
expansion has brought about a complete
breakdown of fundamental facilities”:
‘‘Since 1957, when the Murray Com-
mittee reported, enrolments in the
Faculty of Commerce in the University
of N.S.W. have risen from about 470
to about 1100. In 1961, if left unre-
stricted, they will reach about 1350. The
University library... .with a very poor
collection of Economics material, con-
tains about 100 readers’ seats. There is
no Faculty library or Reading Room ;
no Research or Computation Room.
Staff are frequently accommodated in
huts (often without telephones) or
cubicles so constructed that private con-
versation is all but impossible.” The
commission, the professor adds, would
have done better to examine this and
other problems like it instead of spend-
ing time “calculating the precise number
of students per shower bath which should
be adopted as a standard for Residential
Colleges.”
The commission does a little better on
the staffing problem, says Professor
Rowan. He draws three conclusions
from its remarks:
(1) The State universities are already
dangerously understaffed.
(2) If their teaching standards are not
to deteriorate further, they will have to
double their staffs by 1966.
(3) They have no hope whatever of
getting properly qualified staff in the
required numbers.
Discussing the results of the staff
shortage. Professor Rowan claims: “In
some departments no proper tutorial
system can be run ; in others tutorials
are sadly overcrowded. Staff/student
contact is small. Written work is on
occasions handed back to the under-
graduate, with far too few meaningful
comments. The annual examinations, all
important under the Australian system,
are sometimes given only a single mark-
ing and, in large faculties, there may be
no overall review of a student’s results.
Seminars are reserved to a handful of
honors and post-graduate students. None
of these conditions holds in all depart-
ments. But in most of the large depart-
ments and faculties some of them hold.”
Partly as a result of the staff shortage,
failure rates are high, the professor adds.
Only 37.5 per cent, of full-time students
graduate in minimum time ; the corre-
sponding figure in the U.K. is 81 per
cent, (the rate of failure among part-
time students is, of course, much higher).
He describes this obvious waste of
resources as “appalling”:
“If, as is often said, one function of
a university is. to be a graduate factory,
then the Australian State universities are


COMMISSION'S FORECASTS.
“CORRECTED
FORECASTS.”
% Increase
1966
1966
Reauired
1966
1966
Required
on
Faculty.
Enrolment.
Staff.
increase.
Enrolment.
Staff.
Increase.
1959 Start.
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
Arts
.. 32,000
1.780
914
32,000
1,780
914
105.5
Economics ..
.. 9,500
546
326
14.200
816
596
271.0
Science
.. 13,700
1.306
668
16.000
1,522
884
140.9
Eng
.. 10,600
1.022
521
8,000
830
329
65.6
Law
.. 4.700
182
94
4,300
166
78
88.8
Medicine
.. 9.000
809
411
7,000
629
231
57.2
Others
.. 15,500
1,360
679
13.500
1,184
503
73.7
Total
.. 95.000
7,005
3,613
95,000
6,927
3,535
very inefficient graduate factories indeed.
Moreover, it needs to be remembered
that the Australian students who do
graduate are, during their time at the
university, given less intellectual stimulus
and worse facilities (including library
facilities) than their U.K. counterparts.
As far as ‘education’ is concerned, as
opposed to ‘technical’ expertise, Austra-
lian students in general do far worse.
The standard of degree they attain is,
of course, high.”
In aggregate, notes Professor Rowan,
the teacher-student ratio in Australia’s
universities is 1/12.1; in the U.K.
provincial universities it is about 1/9.
In composition of staff, he adds, the
Whichever set of figures is accepted,
says the professor, a serious problem is
apparent. But the commission, he says,
merely states the problem : it oilers no
solution, and the rest of its report is
written on the assumption that at least
3500 extra staff can easily be got despite
the world-wide shortage of qualified
persons (which the commission recog-
nises) and despite the ‘‘unrealistic salary
scale” and generally poor working con-
ditions in Australian universities. This
the professor describes as “a retreat from
the world of reality.”
Professor Rowan sees only three
possible ways of meeting the problem:
(1) Restrict enrolments to keep student
numbers within the capacity of the quali-
fied staff obtainable
(2) Launch a special staff recruiting
campaign both at home and abroad.
(3) Continue to accept all matriculated
students, which would almost certainly
mean a collapse of existing standards.
The commission, says the professor,
rejects restriction of entry on principle,
without discussing alternatives —although
it seems to have forced restriction on
Sydney University by recommending for
it a financial grant based in part on a
“stabilised” enrolment figure. It does
not discuss recruitment, he adds ; in
fact, it offers no constructive ideas at all.
For this reason he regards the com-
mission’s report as a failure, despite its
achievement of getting more State sup-
port for the universities. Indeed, he
argues, it might even have been better if
they had not succeeded in doing this:
“It is very arguable that, in setting the
universities an ‘impossible’ task —and at
the same time providing them with just
sufficient finance to undertake it—the
commission has, in effect, invited the
pseture is darker still: in the U.K. there
is one professor for every 70 students ;
in Australia one for every 170. Com-
parisons between other grades of staff
are not very useful, he claims, for Aus-
tralia’s failure to adopt a rational salary
scale has meant that “senior lectureships
are held in Australia by persons whose
lack of experience alone w'ould debar
them from such appointments in the
U.K.”
JVaturally, Professor Rowan's estimate
of future staff requirements, being
based on his own forecast of enrolment
trends, differs from the commission’s.
He offers this comparative table:
universities to follow, for another three
years, a course which all the recent past
shows to be disastrous.”
Professor Rowan himself favors
restriction of enrolments as a short-term
measure, at least in the larger universities
(“Overall a 10-15 per cent, exclusion
might be reasonable") ; redeployment of
existing university resources, “which are,
almost without doubt, misallocated”;
and a campaign to attract staff at home
and abroad by revising the superannua-
lion scheme, raising the salary scale, and
offering special teaching scholarships to
promising undergraduates.
TJrofessor Rowan is aware that these
may not be the most fruitful pro-
posals possible, but he insists that pro-
posals of some kind are most definitely
and urgently needed.
Otherwise, what?
Nothing very spectacular, the pro-
fessor says:
“Tragically enough universities never
collapse dramatically. They slowly and
gently decay. After two more triennia
of the Australian Universities Commis-
sion’s ‘policies’ there will be no obvious
outward sign of six years of furthei
decline. The staff/student ratios will
probably be a little worse. Failure rates
will be higher—or standards lower. The
average quality of staff will have fallen.
Teaching hours will be up. research hours
down. Honors schools will be, if any-
thing, less w'ell developed than before.
A few disheartened academics will have
left for C.5.1.R.0., the Treasury, industry
or commerce, or even abroad. Their
replacements will probably not be of
the same quality, but to make up for
it they will probably possess what the
commission calls ‘a human and experi-
mental approach towards the problem
of examinations.’ Post-graduate w'ork
will diminish. Discussion between pro-
fessor and undergraduates will be a
rarity. An atmosphere of intellectual
excitement will be hard to find. The
libraries will have more texts and fewer
monographs. Marking procedures will
be partly ‘mechanised.’ In short, the State
universities w'ill have slowly and gently
declined to the status of technical col-
leges—but technical colleges which award
degrees.”


LETTERS
Is Americanism a Threat?
Sir,
The article by Max Harris, “Is Ameri-
canism a Threat?” (Bulietjn, July 1),
examines some of the dangers of exces-
sive American influence in such media
as television. While he gave some analysis
of evening programmes from commercial
television stations in Adelaide, indicating
almost 100 per cent. U.S.A. content, he
did not give any credit to the A.B.C. for
its success in keeping U.S.A. content to
a more reasonable level in Channel 2
programmes.
An analysis of the evening programmes
from Channel 2, Sydney, for the week
commencing July 1 shows that out of 35
hours on the air only 13 hours were given
to programmes of U.S.A. origin. The
details vary from week to week in different
States, but the general pattern on national
programmes is common. In view of
shortage of programmes available from
other countries, the physical problems of
local production in relation to studio
facilities, costs and budgets, and the major
task involved in developing Australian
talent, this seems a creditable achieve-
ment by the A.B.C. While Australian-
produced programmes and imported
material from the 8.8. C. and the
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation can-
not compete with American programmes
in the struggle for ratings, it is inevit-
able that the main responsibility for
showing such programmes must lie
with the A.B.C. and some credit should
be given to it for maintaining its tradi-
tional emphasis on Australian material
and on quality rather than on ratings.
A further analysis of the non-American
content of the current week's programme
on Channel 2, Sydney, throws serious
doubts on the validity and objectivity of
Max Harris’s statement “that the A.B.C.
has progressively changed position . . .
to a quite considered policy of com-
peting with the lowest level of commercial
channels.” One can say quite flatly that
this is the complete antithesis of Com-
mission policy, and one hopes that this
would be the general view of most people
who give the subject thought. The facts
show that the execution of the A.B.C.'s
real policy is very different from that
stated by Max Harris. In this single week
we see a creditable proportion of pro-
grammes representing the best contribu-
tion of Australian scriptwriters and
actors ; of serious music ; of worthwhile
documentaries on current Australian
affairs; of locally produced entertain-
ment and musical shows and, not least,
of news and newsreel services of a
standard which is unexcelled in Australia.
Max Harris says that the A.B.C. is
steadily reducing the volume of in-
digenous material for intellectual or
aesthetic quality. If we assume that by
“indigenous’’ material we mean Aus-
tralian material and not only the pro-
duct of the smaller capital cities, then
this statement is grossly unfair and in-
accurate. In passing, it may be pointed
out that although the content of pro-
grammes from different capital cities may
vary from week to week, the policy of
using Sydney and Melbourne as major
production centres has led to the best
practical use of available finances and
resources for syndication of A.B.C. pro-
grammes throughout Australia.
Some of the notable productions in
the last twelve months included five operas
and several ballets. Although viewer
ratings are low compared with western
and crime programmes, tens of thousands
of people who have never had the oppor-
tunity or inclination to see such works
are now being introduced to a completely
new and worthwhile experience. The
A.B.C. produced during the last 12
months 21 “live” television dramas of
an hour or longer, including several
Shakespearean productions and 10 plays
by Australian authors. Only those con-
cerned with such productions will realise
the cost and magnitude of the effort in-
volved. Our symphony orchestras and
visiting celebrities are being brought to
hundreds of thousands who could never
attend a symphony concert and who prob-
ably would not listen to them on sound
radio. Much organisation and planning
is being given to increasing the amount
of high-quality music of this kind to be
given over the national stations with ail
television’s great advantage of high-
quality sound. In addition to document-
aries and interviews with leading world
figures, Channel 2 programmes have made
a major contribution in bringing to our
homes Australian men and women who
have made a notable contribution to the
nation. In one programme, “Horizons,’’
there were 32 sessions and a high standard
of interviewing is being developed by men
such as Michael Charlton and Rohan
Rivett
The intellectuals may disparage the
mass of viewers as “vidiots,” but the
intellectuals surely do not expect that the
national television authority can cater for
them alone. Apart from practical ques-
tions of programme availability, the
A.B.C. has a responsibility to cater for
all.
Perhaps its most delicate and difficult
task is in providing fare for minorities,
to a degree which is out of all proportion
to the numerical strength of the minori-
ties. Its success in doing so will always
be a subject for debate and heart-search-
ing, but surely the record in television
demonstrates continued and growing
effort to provide for “intellectual and
aesthetic quality.” One can vouch for
the fact that the firm intention is there,
and that it is pursued by the A.B.C. pro-
gramme staff with enthusiasm and dedica-
tion in a tremendously exacting and diffi-
cult situation.
A. G. LOWNDES
Commissioner, A.B.C.
Sydney.
REFRESHING THE SHORT
STORY
Sir,
Because of some of the stories The
Bulletin has published in the past 1
believe many paients with teenage sons
and daughters wouldn't allow The
Bulletin to enter their homes. If a
magazine such as The Bulletin pub-
lished stories of culture and refinement,
only you’d earn a better reputation
thereby increasing your circulation.
There are plenty of penny dreadfuls op
the market.
Your idea of allowing more scope for
creative writers is a good one, but you're
not allowing enough space. Publish more
feature articles, keep them clean, and lef
the public decide whether they're good
or bad. warranted or not. They'll soon
let you know. You have to please the
public —not an editor.
SHELLA TASSELL
Maple ton ( Q .).
Sir,
Reading that you were to conduct a
campaign to encourage the art of short-
story writing, 1 was happy. At last, I
thought, Hal Porter must be on the way
out. Then 1 find this meaningless, pre-
tentious rubbish is lauded. Well, it's just
too much!
I have read The Bully since the late
'twenties and loved it—looked forward
immensely to every copy. I was tempted
to give it away when last year's Christ-
mas edition came out, but the old affec-
tions were too strong. 1 shuddered every
time Hal Porter’s name or work
appeared, but grimly stuck on. There was
always the chance of a short story by
Brian James or a cartoon by “Heth."
But if The Bully can do no better than
get on a soap-box about Professor Orr
and Lady Chatterley—well, at long last
I’ve had it, and it is like saying “farewell”
to a dear friend of long standing.
I am enclosing a stamped and
addressed envelope. Would you be good
enough to let me know if “Heth” is still
publishing in any periodicals. Living in
the country, we have no opportunit es of
finding out these things for ourselves. It
is the last service you can do for a very
disappointed and loyal old reader.
D. G. BELLE
Robe (S.T.).
Sir,
Gavin Casey (B. 24/6/61) seems to
have hit the nail on the head when he
suggests that The Bulletin might dig
down in its jeans and pay more lor its
short stories. After all, what writer
wants to beat his brains out for chicken-
feed?


Invest in
The Longest Established National Hire
Purchase Company
k
in which the Bank of N.S.W.
has a 40% shareholding
EGISTERED
NOTES
INTEREST RATES
%
PER
ANNUM
Application for Registered Notes can be accepted
only on the printed form included in the pros-
pectus obtainable from the Bankers to the issue,
Bank of New South Wales (all Branches),
any A.G.C. Branch, and your Stockbroker.
PAID-UP CAPITAL: £6,875,000
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
142 Phillip Street, Sydney • BW 2673
Branches and offices throughout Australia
Si
4;».
- '
i i
mm
ASK THE 'WALES' FOR DETAILS
Hal Porter’s story in the same issue
is a vast improvement on the stories
appearing of recent months — epics of
sordidness ; gin - sodden matrons and
fheir emotional problems ; and Mr Ray
Mathew's rather peculiar people with
their quaint ideas of matrimony. No
wonder outsiders think we are a “weird
mob.”
Why not try out Mr Casey’s idea?
JANE WILLIAMS
Sydney.
LABOR CUTS ITS THROAT
Sir,
Sufficient evidence that the A.L.P. has
cut its throat in N.S.W. lies in the fact
that the June State conference rejected
the policy of the late Premier Joe Cahill
on the necessity of having penal clauses
in the Arbitration laws.
The A.L.P. scraped home at the last
State election in 1959 on the personal
appeal of the late Mr Cahill, and on
the fact that the swinging voters
accepted his assurances against radical
policy changes.
Not only has Joe Cahill departed from
the scene, but the A.L.P. will no longer
be able to use his memory, as it has now
rejected his policy.
GEORGE COOK
Brisbane.
SELLING WHEAT TO CHINA
Sir,
The recent sales of wheat to Com-
munist China have served to highlight
the difficulties of government, where a
bureaucratic instrumentality is compelled
to make decisions, based largely on
economic factors, but which nevertheless
can carry political implications.
In all our trading with Communist
nations we are bound to remember,
unless we are foolish, that the Commu-
nists’ assertion “We trade for political
purposes, not for economic purposes”
is a very real factor, the consequences
of which must be assessed together with
the normal economic factors, before we
determine our attitude to the proposed
deal.
Those people, therefore, who are
responsible for determining terms of
sale should be subject to political direc-
tion, when the effects of the sale are
quite obviously going to produce political
results. Neither the growers, nor the
wheat board, nor any other sectional
interest should have the power of final
determination in such a matter.
H. K. PARKSTER
Valley Heights (N.S.W.).
NEW STATUS FOR TEACHERS
Sir,
While the article “New Status for
Teachers” (Bulletin, 1/7/61) is sub-
stantially correct, there are several errors
of fact:
(1) Apart from the obvious misprint
of “tribunal hearings in public,” which
should read private, there is the amount
of the V.S.T.A. subscription—£2, not 255.
(It never has been 255.)
(2) The V.S.T.A. and secondary
teachers have many other grounds for
complaint than salary. Primary teachers’
conditions are much better than
secondary in many other matters —e.g.,
primary teachers in metropolitan schools
can transfer after three years ; secondary
teachers must stay five. There are at
least eight serious secondary disadvant-
ages when comparing primary and
secondary conditions.
(3) The V.T.U. did not obtain the pre-
sent Teachers’ Tribunal. The V.T.U.
executive (including the present teachers’
representative) fought its foundation
vigorously. It took a special meeting of
members to override the V.T.U.’s reluct-
ance.
(4) The V.S.T.A. has easily the majority


listab'ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JBSi
■Jackson &
.O'SULLIVAN
PTYLTD C
Q 8 BO'S*? $
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS •; PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
•MACKSUL," BRISBANE
start the day right!
r
, O^C
tHOt"
V»*»C
c
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
of secondary teachers enrolled. In many
high schools there is no V.T.U. member
at all. The V.S.T.A. has long offered to
place its audited membership figures be-
fore the public, if the V.T.U. does the
same —but the V.T.U. has never agreed
(to audited figures).
(5) The claim for an increased margin
over primary teachers is not for some-
thing new. Before the Teachers’ Tri-
bunal was set up there had always been
a substantial margin of secondary salary
over that of the primary.
J. FAHEY
Canterbury {Vic.).
CATHOLICS AND THE
FREE SOCIETY
Sir,
I feel that the letters by M. G. Ander-
sen and A. W. Hartwig (Bulletin,
24/6/61, which were inspired by a previ-
ous one of mine, have both failed to put
forward a logical reply to my inference
that Roman Catholicism is a prelude to
Communism.
To Mr Andersen I would say that I
did not refer to a person or organisation
as being of any degree Roman Catholic,
for it is obvious that any individual or
organisation can be the strongest expon-
ent of any faith or cause, or alternatively
the weakest, but rather to the degree of
strength relative to the total population.
For example, the Roman Catholic
Hierarchy in predominantly Catholic
countries such as Italy and France would
be exponents of the Church’s strength,
whereas the approximate 40 per cent, who
vote Communism in these countries
despite the Church’s forbiddance, would
reflect its weakness, therefore, Mr Ander-
sen’s claim that “the more Catholic a
person or organisation becomes, the more
anti-Communist are its outlook and
policies,” does not bear out when taken
on a national level.
It would appear that a people nurtured
on authoritarianism, be it religious or
political, are more susceptible to accept-
ing totalitarianism than those in a more
free form of society, for Spain, also a
R.C. country with its post-Civil War
dictatorship blessed by the Pope, has
maintained its regime only by the sup-
pression of democracy, Communism and
Protestantism. Mr Andersen’s statement
that the Church “never has been, nor ever
will be a political organisation,” would
have been more correct if he had added
the word “direct” before political, for
history has shown that the Church has,
and undoubtedly still does indirectly,
take part in politics, for in the past in
countries such as England, France and
Austria, many members of the Jesuit
Order have been expelled for indulging
in political intrigue, and as to the truth
or otherwise of the Church participating
in politics in this country, I feel that the
answer would be better left to the judg-
ment of thinking Australians, both
Catholic and Protestant.
Although I might add that we recently
learnt of a R.C. Archbishop in MeL
bourne instructing his followers not to
vote Labor because it did not suit the
policy of the Church there, while in Syd-
ney another R.C. Archbishop advocated
a vote for Labor because it did suit the
Church in that particular sphere. Both
instructions being relevant to the same
election.
To Mr Hartwig I can only say that
he has no doubt fallen for the “Rome or
Moscow” propaganda brought out by the
Church several years ago, also evident
by his tendency to follow the line that
labels as Communist anyone who ex-
presses opposition to the aim of the
Church to make Australia a Roman
Catholic country, a condition which 1
firmly believe would be a national dis-
aster paving the way for Communism,
for the Church does not breed or pro-
mote freedom of the mind any more
than does Communism.
The majority of Communist leaders in
this country are ex-Roman Catholics, as
are, or were, many of the extreme Left-
wing Labor politicians, for the Church
appears to favor Socialism where Social-
ism promotes and does not adversely
affect its interests ; if it does, then Social-
ism becomes outright Communism.
Also, I would suggest that Mr Hart-
wig give reflection to the fact that the
Methodism which he is proud to ack-
nowledge would mean no more in a R.C.
country than it would in a Communist
one, and that it was indirectly only won
by reaction to Roman Catholicism
approximately 300 years ago.
R. B. LOWNDES
Toongabbie {N.S.W.).
THE REPUBLICANS RIDE
AGAIN
Sir,
Your Melbourne correspondent (B.
24/6/61), under the above heading, is
incorrect when he says that Mr A. R.
Mullins contested the Latrobe by-election
last year. The Republican candidate was
Mr John Murray, who increased the
Republican support from 112 to 493,
equal to 260 per cent. Mr Mullins would
have stood, but, being a teacher, would
have had to sacrifice nearly three months’
salary, which the party would not allow.
Such is the injustice of the electoral and
public service regulations regarding hold-
ing of “offices of profit under the
Crown.” For all practical purposes the
best-educated section of the community
is barred from offering their services to
the community.
To read the daily press and other
papers one would gather the impression
that the Australian Republican Party
has no other policy but to “cut the
painter.” This is not so, as the Repub-
lican party has a definite policy on every-
day “bread and butter” politics. But
there seems to be a definite paper wall
against the party, giving a false impres-
sion of our views.
G. P. FITZGERALD
Australian Republican Party
Melbourne .


OUT and ABOUT
Angels for Los Angeles
An exhibition of 40 pieces of ceramic
sculpture by Melbourne artist John
Perceval will be held in Los Angeles in
November. The exhibition is being
arranged by TV actor, Raymond Burr,
who. in between his Perry Mason
appearances, is a noted art dealer.
While he was in Australia for a short
visit recently, Burr arranged for an
exhibition of Australian painting to be
held in Los Angeles next year. The
Perceval sculpture, which will be of the
angel figures for which he is noted, will
be priced at around 900 dollars each,
a figure which has made the artist regard
Burr as something of an angel. For
transport each piece will be encased in
a plastic foam, called poiyisocyanates.
Striding Down The Strand
TJeinemann has brought out a new
edition of Henry Handel Richard-
son’s “The Getting of Wisdom,” which
English reviewer Ronald Bryden writes
is “an astonishingly tough and candid
picture of life in a girls’ school.” “Per-
haps,” he adds, “the elimination of
frilliness is helped by the fact that the
school is in Melbourne and the girls are
Australian ; obvious ancestresses of the
sturdy, sunburned matrons in pastel
linen striding down the Strand towards
Australia House this time of year.”
M. Delpierre's One-man
Peace Corps
TV/fTCHEL Delpierre, of Brussels, this
week left Sydney after a ten-day
stay, rather shattered at the lack of
interest his visit caused. M. Delpierre
has just finished the first or Asian leg
of what he expects will be a three-year,
100,000-mile journey taking in 86 coun-
tries and visiting five continents.
However, what is perhaps slowly
dawning on M. Delpierre as he heads
for Canberra and Melbourne is that
coming overland from Europe has in
post-war years become something of a
national pastime for Australians. There
is a more or less constant stream of old
London taxis, landrovers, even motor
scooters, arriving with their burden of
home-coming Australians.
M. Delpierre regards his world trip
primarily as a means of spreading good-
will between nations. However, he is
THE WHITE FAMILY AT HOME
(Census night: June 29-30, 1961)
“l can overlook your being an American Methodist,”
Said the Head of the House of “Quentin,” 28 Wood Rd., Easlville, Mr Alfred White,
“But you’re old enough to be Judith’s father, and l insist
That if you don’t drop this idea of marriage you can leave my house tonight.”
“Alfred,” said his brother John, “if you do that to Mr Scott,
The census form you’ve filled in will incur a penalty of £5O for being untrue.”
“From a mining carpenter four weeks unemployed l will listen to no such rot,”
Said Alfred White, “and if you don’t like it you can get out too.”
“From a counter-jumper in a hardware store that’s a little thin,”
Uncle John began ; but young Kevin, the apprentice at the garage,
Interrupted: “What Dad’s worrying about is the money coming in —-
That’s why he doesn’t want Sis to give up working at the insurance office and take
on marriage.”
“You young people,” said their father, “haven’t got anything to complain about:
Television, electric cooking, kitchen, bathroom ; six rooms, all good red bricks ;
But don’t worry about me ; if you want to, you can all get out —
It’ll cost you eight guineas a week each for what we’re getting for sixty-seven-
and-six.”
“Alfred!” said Mrs Maude White (Home Duties). “You will now shut up —is that
clear ?
How can poor little Brian get on with his homework while you grumble and grouse?
If you object to Judith marrying Robert it’s you who can get the hell out of here,
Even if it means having to disclose myself as Head of the House.”
SWILLIAM


working busily as a journalist. He writes
one long, continuous story, which he
posts to a secretary in Brussels. The
secretary edits the story, cutting it into
articles for magazines and papers, such
as the London “Daily Mail," Paris
“Match” and the “National Geographic
Magazine.”
M. Delpierre plans to be in Australia
for four months and will visit all States.
He began his trip with a companion
who checked out when the going got
tough in Burma. M. Delpierre claims
that he was stopped by police 150 times
in Burma. However, his only accident
so far has been hitting a sacred cow
in India.
Running Commentary
One Australian who has probably been
out and about longer and further
than most of us is Bea Miles, of Sydney.
Miss Miles is known to every taxi-driver,
policeman and bus - conductor simply
because she prefers free travel.
Miss Miles has now written a book
of aphorisms, a copy of which she
brought into The Bulletin. Another
copy has gone to an American publisher.
It is called “In Brief,” after, according
to Miss Miles, a literary habit of Henry
Louis Mencken. Mencken is one of Miss
Miles’s few enthusiasms.
However, she does give credit where
she feels credit is due.
“The world's best food is to be had
in Long Bay jail, women’s section. It
keeps us alive and healthy,” she writes.
And again: “The best-kept hotel in Aus-
tralia is the Iron Knob Hotel in S.A.
The bar is perfection, the hall, bedrooms
and floors polished to the highest degree,
the bathroom spotless.”
Miss Miles records that the first offence
for which she was imprisoned was sitting
on the lower ledge of the Cenotaph in
Sydney. “A smug woman came up to
me and said, ‘That’s sacred,’ and 1 was
arrested,” she writes. “The second to
the 20th time were riding on bumper
bars and mudguards, a most exhilarating
form of amusement. The farthest 1 have
travelled on a bumper bar is 70 miles.
The 20th to the 40th time were for
towing my bike behind trams. 1 was
no good as a rider of a push bike, but
a damn good tower. The 40th to the 60th
were for jumping the rattler.”
A Man with a Heart
A t a recent art show in Perth each of
the 58 pictures bore a small red
cardboard heart. The exhibition was
organised by collector Claude Hotchin
and the paintings were available at 10
guineas a time, cheques payable to the
National Heart Foundation.
Hotchin, who is chairman of the Art
Gallery Board, must long ago have lost
count of the Australian paintings he has
bought privately. He has a fine collec-
tion at his West Perth home, but has
also made gifts of sizeable collections to
country towns, to the W.A. Parliament,
That was
The bill for the great Sydney cleaning-
up has, so far, amounted to £63,935. For
which value has been received as follows:
52,033 tons of silt, sewerage and drowned
cat taken out of the harbor along the
wharf front; 25,430 tons of garbage
burnt; 28,455 tons dropped at sea to
wash up again at Watson’s Bay and
Manly amid the curses of the inhabitants;
3808 buildings cleaned; 17,000 rats
destroyed in the cleaning process; 27,548
other rats paid for at the depot and
burnt; and 1423 dead horses, cows, pigs,
sheep, calves, dogs and other zoological
items found floating in the Beautiful
Harbor. — “Bulletin,” July 7, 1900.
Two Port Melbourne (Vic.) honora-
riums made a sad mistake the other day
in dealing with the customary wife-beater.
The lady had suffered 18 years’ walloping,
but the chastisement under notice had
been so strenuous that a neighbor inter-
vened, broke open the door, and intro-
duced a constable. The Bench listened
to the tale of how the wife was hammered
and punched and threatened with a toma-
hawk, and of how the furniture was
broken up and the neighborhood turned
into a bear garden; and then, instead of
handing the poor fellow a donation from
the poor-box to console him for the annoy-
ance and publicity the Court got flurried
in the rush of business and actually fined
him 5s. — “Bulletin,” September 17, 1908.
The Queensland postal authorities state
with pardonable pride that a letter
addressed “Mrs Smith, the bush, Queens-
land,'’ has been correctly delivered. The
lady wrote to the Cold Country and
mentioned casually that she was living
in the Queensland bush, and either for-
got to state any other address or the old
folks lost it. Anyway, they must have
thought Queensland the same size as
Rutlandshire, and sent the reply along.
So the inquiry office put out its feelers and
inquired from the travelling post offices
and the mailmen who run ‘twixt Norman-
ton, Thargomindah and the Setting Sun;
and shortly a mailman on the outer rim
beyond Cloncurry remembered that a
lady named Smith had been asking for
a letter, and the document was safely
delivered. —“BulletinSeptember 3, 1908.
SOME OF THE PEOPLE
A • R- GEEVES said that if Lilydale
Council charged 4d. in the £1 am-
bulance rate ratepayers would be paying
the equivalent of £5O a trip for the
ambulance to Launceston.
N.S.W. President of the Farmers’
Union, C. R. Tasker, objected to farms
being declared factories under the new
Factories and Shops Bill.
Alice Springs street-sweeper Charlie
Reid said after winning £lO,OOO in a
Tattersalls lottery that he would have
to go on working to keep his wife and
eight young children.
Unborn child of Mrs Betty Ronan of
Greenwich (Sydney), was awarded
£2/3/- a week, his share of Workers’
Compensation for the death of. his father
in a train smash in March.
David John Kydd of Ballarat must
pay £BBO compensation at £4 a week for
illegally using a car that was wrecked.
Dr Russel Ward, kept off the stafF of
the University of N.S.W. because of
unspecified doubts about his background,
will be in charge of world history from
1775 to 1905 in UNO’s “A History of
the Scientific and Cultural Development
of Mankind.”
Wife of a U.S. Information Officer,
Mrs Dorothy Joyce, sold out spareribs at
Sydney Eastern suburbs butcheries by
spreading a recipe for them in barbecue
sauce.
D. T. Whitton, 25 years a fisherman,
said heavy power dredges squashing
scallops on hard bottoms in the D’Entre-
casteaux Channel are endangering the
Tasmanian scallops industry.
Parramatta Council rejected by nine
votes to six the proposal to spend £45
on a wig for the Town Clerk, E. S.
Jameson, and make him wear it.
Reginald Hazelhurst and Edward Peter
Bond, fishing near the new South Fre-
mantle jetty, saw the body of a strange
woman floating in the sea.
Keith Lawson, released after serving
seven years for the rape of two of a
group of models in the Sydney bush, has


for sale portraits of Archbishop Mannix,
Sir Winston Churchill and Popes John
and Pius, painted in jail in oils from
photographs.
Inspector N. W. Sabine told Kuring-
gai Council of a school at St Ives where
Sydney police drivers would be taught
how to drive.
When Robert Ingle of North Ryde,
N.S.W., slipped on the bathroom floor
his neck broke in a rope he had looped
around it to increase his height (sft. 3in.).
George Dancker, plumber, and Peter
Minogue, his apprentice, fell 50 feet from
the roof of a three-storey flat building in
Darlinghurst, Sydney, bounced off a car,
and lived.
Pascoe Vale police said the destruc-
tion of 20 canvas posters of the endorsed
A.L.P. candidate for Essendon, Dr L. F.
Edmunds, appeared to be a campaign
against Dr Edmunds.
While Newcastle Alderman Nesbit was
walking through Blackbutt Reserve a
schoolboy shot his dog with an air rifle
making a hole big enough for the aider-
man to put his finger in.
D. F. Hobbs of Tasmania’s Inland
Fisheries Commission appealed to
anglers to report poachers shooting and
spearing trout and hoopironing them at
night with lights.
Sydney officials waived the rule against
importation of any but desexed Alsatians
to allow Gina, a New Zealand police
dog, into Australia.
Father of former Brisbane school
teacher Ruth Ward said Prince George
Obolensky, to whom she has become
engaged, is “plain George in New York,”
where he is a Shell Oil economist.
Into the Silence:—
In Sydney, at 76, Sir Frederick Harold Stewart,
businessman, politician and philanthropist. Sir
Frederick was M.H.R. for Parramatta from 1931
to 1946, during which time he was a member
of the War Cabinet, was Minister -for Com-
merce, External Affairs and Social Services.
He was the founder and proprietor of Sydney's
first bus service and the founder of radio
station 2CH.
In Adelaide, at 76, Albert Henry Sanders,
Town Clerk of Brighton from 1916 to 1950, a
life member of the S.A. Local Government
Association and for ten years before his death
manager of the Adelaide Benevolent and
Strangers’ Friend Society.
• In Adelaide, at 57, Frederick Chapman,
president of the Adelaide branch of the Boiler-
makers’ Society for 11 years, and a member of
•the Union's executive since 1946.
At Surfers' Paradise ( Q.), at 76, George
William Mason, who practised as a radiologist
in Brisbane for 20 years and was a member
of the College of Radiologists of Australia.
In Brisbane, Mrs Eliza Rebecca Barden,
Queensland pioneer who journeyed with her
family by bullock team from the Bligh district
of N.S.W. to Cunnamulla, Queensland, in 1875.
Mrs Barden lived at Cunnamulla until 1913,
when she and her husband moved to Walgett.
In Sydney, at 53, Harry Hooton, noted
bohemian poet and philosopher.
FOR THE OBSERVER
A Home Unit is
Not a Home
Into a recently completed block of eight
home units in Sydney moved the
tenants, seven widows and one married
couple. The seven widows viewed the
married couple with some mistrust. The
presence of a man somehow disturbed
the uniform appearance of the eight
identical flats, with their identical ground-
plans, identical balconies and identical
Harbor views.
Then the husband, who had already
had one coronary, died. The new widow
soon dried her tears. The eight widows
then settled happily to home-unit living,
sharing ideas on pot-plants for their
balconies, exchanging recipes and symp-
toms, worrying about the peculiar noises
made by the wind whistling through the
steel-framed windows, and retelling tales
of other jerry-built home-unit buildings,
which were slowly but surely sliding
from their Harbor-front positions into
the water.
It is doubtful whether anyone will ever
sit down in their Sydney home unit and
write a song, “Home Unit, Sweet Home
Unit.” No matter how you look at them,
a home unit is not, in the Australian
sense at least, a home. In Sydney, and
to a lesser extent in the other cities, home
units have merely taken up the slack
between the suburbs and the small area
—perhaps only Kings Cross ever really
qualified —which was Australia’s reluc-
tant attempt at urban life as it is lived
in Europe.
Owners of home units are in the main
the residue of solid Australian suburban
life. They look with horror on the people
who live in flats and “pay rent all their
lives.” They have come from the solid
suburbs, and they bring their solid
suburbanism with them.
This does not mean that, once they are
ensconced in their tall, concrete buildings,
they are not the object of scorn from
their neighbors still trying to live a
suburban life in the shadow of the
giants. Forty years in a quiet street of
Killara count for nothing if any segment
of your building cuts off the view of a
long-term Kirribilli house-owner. You
are no better than the local flat-dwellers
“paying rent all their lives.” In fact, you
may be one step lower.
The home unit dweller is often a widow
or an unmarried woman or man. An-
other class of home unit dweller is the
country family (sometimes still statistic-
ally exact —father, mother and children).
The country people often use their unit
for only a couple of months of the year.
This tends to confirm the city person’s
suspicions that all country people are
rich, and that all those letters to the papers


about the plight of primary industry are
absolute poppycock.
The widows represent the generation of
women, living longer, burying their hard-
worked husbands earlier, and raising
smaller families, families which take less
of the home’s income to get a start in life.
Even a generation ago, Mother usually
stayed in the family home after the
children left. If she didn’t still have the
company of her husband the family felt
her memories were enough. Now she
lives longer, gets her money earlier, sells
the house and moves to a home unit.
Unmarried men buying units are
relatively few. The task of full-scale
housekeeping daunts many Australian
bachelors. Many of them cling to the
boarding-house with all its discomforts,
develop frugal habits in later life and
leave their money to ungrateful nieces
and nephews. Even the skilful male cook
is inclined to be jealous of his amateur
status, and to make cooking an occasional
rather than a day-to-day job.
It is generally a disparate group of
people who find themselves sharing a
building, in most cases with the intention
of staying a lifetime.
Most of them have no experience of
living in a large building. When you
have previously been about 100 feet from
your neighbor’s house, it comes as some-
thing of a shock to hear the bathwater
running away in the flat above.
Some people who have bought Harbor
views on ground plans have found on
taking possession of their units that living
in a top-floor unit, perched on the edge
of a sheer drop to the water, is rather
like living on the prow of the Queen
Mary. Harborside units have to be
soundproofed and air-conditioned. One
elderly woman, who bought a unit on
the water’s edge, could not for several
months go more than halfway across
the room towards the windows without
feeling giddy.
Most unit-owners have to form a com-
pany to run the building. This is a fairly
simple arrangement as, of course, the
company is a private, non-profit-making
one. However, the launching ceremony
is often as elaborate as launching a com-
petitor to the B.H.P.
To most of the tenants this company
jazz is a novelty. Elderly widows, whose
only contact with business has been to
receive dividend cheques from the blue-
chip investments their husbands made,
suddenly find themselves chairmen of the
board. This is the sort of thing which
can go to anyone’s head, even if the office
of director is purely honorary, and the
decisions made are no more momentous
than whether to have 75- or 100-watt
globes in the outside lights.
The formation of the company often
puts home unit owners on quite a
neighborly basis. As one owner ex-
plained to his fellow-shareholders:
“It is in the interests of every one of
us to get on well together. We all have
a big capital investment in our units.
Some time in the future some of us may
have to sell our units. If there are rumors
of squabbles and rows in this building,
they could well affect the price.”
FOR THE CONSUMER
Turning on
the Heat
the most astute shopper, with
the prices of everyday commodities
at her fingertips, and a keen nose for
a true bargain, does not have the
remotest idea what the household pays,
per day or per week, for services, such
as gas and electricity, or how such
charges are arrived at. The electricity
bill is something to be paid every three
months, and the gas meter something
Mum and Dad used in their courting
days.
However, learning a little more about
these services can well repay the con-
sumer. This is particularly true in winter
when fuel bills shoot up. Some savings
may be effected, if you know approxi-
mately how much each domestic
appliance costs to run. More importantly,
for family serenity, people may be cured
of those small economies which aren't
really economies, and which succeed only
in driving everyone to distraction.
For example, it may be a cure for the
person who insists on wandering around
the house, turning off electric - light
switches, to know that, in Sydney at
least, you can use a 100-w'att globe for
ten hours for 2d.
Also, if you are really enthusiastic,
you can work out how much cheaper
the cheaper cuts of meat are when you
add the cost of slow cooking of casseroles
and stews to the initial cost of ingredients
and compare this figure with, say, the
cost of meat for grilling.
There is, of course, considerable varia-
tion in charges for gas and electricity
throughout the Commonwealth. In
general, the larger the utility, supplying
power, the lower the charges. Also in
many cases the more you consume the
cheaper your basic rate becomes. It is,
of course, much more difficult to work
out what gas appliances might cost over
a short period than it is to get a daily
rate for electricity, because gas pressure
can vary so much at different times and
in different districts.
The Sydney County Council, which
supplies most of the Sydney metropolitan
area with electricity, and the Australian
Gas Light Company, which supplies gas
to much of the south side of the harbor,
are both perfectly willing to give
customers any detail possible of what
any appliance might cost to run. There
is no reason to suppose that any other
power authority would see it had much
to gain by creating an air of mystery.
The county council has a table of
appliances from electric blankets to wash
boilers, giving the average wattage of
each, the average number of kilowatts
each might use per household per annum,
and the cost of running per annum. This
table is available to consumers.
The county council will also provide
customers with a smaller table, which
gives details of what it costs to run
household appliances for an hour at the
current domestic rate. According to the
council's calculations, for one penny you
can run a radio for 4\ hours, a television
set for 2\ hours, a sew'ing machine for
six hours and a sealed-unit refrigerator
for nine hours. A radiator of one kilo-
watt capacity costs about 2|d. to run
for one hour. Television, according to
the county council, costs Sydney viewers
an average of Is. 2d. a week.
All that the layman really need know
about his electricity supply is that the
basic unit is the kilowatt and supply is
normally measured in kilowatt hours, or
the cost of supplying 1000 watts for one
hour. Electrical appliances generally
have their wattage stamped on them.
Some State laws compel this.
According to the Sydney County
Council’s statistics, the average Sydney
household consumes one Ix.W.H. per
person per day for cooking purposes.
The Australian Gas Light Company has
a series of rate schedules. In general,
the more gas consumed the cheaper the
rate. Officers of the company will explain
these rates to any consumer, and will
give one easy lesson on how' to read a
gas meter to anyone who cares to find
out. The company estimates that the
average gas-fire costs about 4d. an hour
to run. However, it is not possible to
average out a figure for cooking or for,
say, consumption of hot water for one
bath which would be sufficiently exact
to help much.
However, if a consumer disputes a bill
the company can produce formidable
statistics. They can check your con-
sumption for the same period in previous
years, they can, if necessary, produce
the average rise in consumption for the
winter so that you may realise that what
you thought was a terrific increase is
only an average rise.
If you feel that the meter is at fault,
a N.S.W. Government officer will check
it. All meters are checked and sealed
by Government officers.


Ucuffi In iAe
Fmluj*c
\
Mm
Sometimes 1 wonder what Australians of an
earlier time would say if they could see the changes
that have been introduced to human living in this
twentieth century.
Would they have believed, for instance, that
in 1961 at the press of a switch, events as they
happened would actually be viewed by television in
more than a million Australian homes?
Around the years of this century's turn the
“magic lantern” was the modern medium of
entertainment. Then came cinematography, the
sound film, radio; all of them amazing to those to
v/hom they were a new experience.
Or. taking the review of progress into the realm
of aviation: In the fifty-eight years since man’s
first powered flight above the earth, aircraft have
been designed to fly at speeds faster than sound.
Artificial satellites, fitted with marvellous
mechanisms, spin around the globe and send back
messages; and men venture into space in the same
way as aviators were challenging the skies fewer
than sixty years ago.
These are just two examples of how quickly
the conditions of human living have moved on
through deeds that would have dared imagining
at a time closer to us than one life’s normal span.
And there have been other changes, too.
outside the spheres of science and discovery. The
world is a much different place from that in which
our forefathers started out to build a new nation.
Australia’s setting and responsibilities in the world
are different.
Our task remains constant; the necessity for
peopling this land and raising it to full productive
life within the frame of the succeeding times. All
that is happening, and will happen, in the world
only gives our mission an extra urgency.
To do justice to ourselves and to Australia,
then, is going to take a lot of personal faith, a
sense of purpose, and at times some sacrifice.
These are attributes that have been common to
courage in every generation. And they can never
be touched by the changing years.
Feiffer
i vaw wn& r wap i&taaW
saf-daewrep. i Peer that mu i
wretfo a cpowpec? £<%>m i wap reaum
The onuy
pgRPOU
THAPf
m tw iowefo r
lift TK6 l?OOM flu
T|4f S£HIU(?
MCtemo fomr.
/
Tneo & i 6f?cto A ume owed auO ■
LEARMV PfcAPfDlUTMewr I VC%LO?ZO
M N£W Fg&M? THAT tO«6IO f fl&ftffiP
a ciwasp
,ROOM -
-I i*ms m om
id HO WASN'T Uteee ■
iu mi cx ute it seeneo
T 0 M 6 THAT t iOAS THf
UA6T
wt of_ 6Rou)W
is A Cotfmtib
fIBOC6S6>- AS
M <#*&
we/or an
I MtUMtO.
[ VOLO)6eR
iootfv Ar
UFE Ik)
msoi\jie^
jjouMP Mk. WH£(O l 6VT6£ A
“ ,cß.ouoeP
(Boom-
tm uor soee ANY
Of Ub AR6 MRt.


ABORIGINALITIES
How Torpey Sold
His Woodyard
\\f hen I left school in mid-1930 I went
* * io work for a man who, among
other business activities, operated the
local woodyard. When an order for a
load of wood came in the boss would
take off his dustcoat and tie and we'd
get into the dray and drive down the
street and round the corner past the war
memorial and the garage, into a rented
paddock where the wood was kept. The
dray had “Good Bush Wood from A.
Torpey” roughly painted on the side.
We used to hitch a trace chain to the
axle of the dray and draw the big logs
up near to the saw bench. After the boss
got the engine going we'd get the logs up
on the bench somehow and while the
boss did the sawing I'd sling the cut billets
into the dray until we reckoned we had
a load. We never cut more than what
was needed because, as the boss always
reckoned, there weren’t many honest
people about town.
Over a period of 12 months the stack
of logs got further and further away
from the sawbench and the boss began to
grumble, louder and louder, that there
wasn't any damn money in the game any-
way and he was going to sell out. He'd
had a couple of offers, but didn't seem
able to make up his mind w'hich to accept.
“There’s still 50 tons of wood there,”
he'd say, looking at the heap of logs. “Joe
Clark's offer is 50 quid with the plant
thrown in. Boy, that's downright robbery.
Fifty quid! Cut up and delivered, there’s
150 quid there. And Clark knows it.”
He’d look glum for a while, then brighten
up: “Still, I’ll think about it.”
But while he was thinking about it
the logs got harder and tougher. The
bloke who had brought the wood into
the yard had covered all the tough ones
with the better-class stuff and now we
were right down to the gnarled old
trunks. And they were heavy ; too heavy
for the two of us to handle.
The boss solved that difficulty. A
weil-sinker came in hurriedly one day
and told the boss he had to leave for
Sydney urgently, and would the boss
take a case of dynamite in place of the
quid he owed? Well, the boss never let
a bargain slip through his fingers, so he
and « retired to the woodyard, rammed
a stick of gelignite up the pipe of an old
log, stuffed the ends of the pipe with
rammed mud, lit the fuse and took refuge
at a safe distance.
“Holy cow!” said the boss, suddenly.
“You wouldn't read about it!” He was
looking at Sam Wong's wagonette. Sam
had just come up from his garden on the
river bank and the wagonette was loaded
with fresh vegetables, the old flea-bitten
grey in the shafts and Sam on the seat
drowsy with the heat of the day. “Ah,
well,” the boss said in a resigned sort
of way. “Nothing we can do about it
now. Accidents will happen.”
We crouched in closer to our logs as
Sam’s wagon rolled by. The log went
up with a whoosh. Bits of timber rained
down and the boss got to his feet, wiping
sweat from his brow on the sleeve of his
shirt.
Sam's W'agon was a fast-disappearing
speck up the road, and here and there
were bunches of bright red carrots.
“Look, boy,” the boss said. “While I get
the next charge ready, hop along and
pick up those carrots. They'll go bad
lying there in the sun.”
When I got back the boss had the next
charge ready. We took a carrot each and
munched at it while we crouched in the
lee of our logs.
“Taking a deuce of a time to go off,’
the boss said presently, reaching for an-
other carrot. We ate a second carroi
each, and still the charge hadn't gone off
“A stinker,” the boss said, so we wenl
round the other side of the gieat heaj
of logs and had another go. But tha!
one was a stinker, too.
“It’s a bit trying on the nerves,” the
boss said later. There were now' eighl
logs in the stack with dud charges
rammed into them. “You know, boy, I
had a feeling I was being got at w'hei
that shyster came in and offered me thai
jelly in place of the quid he owed me
But I'm soft. That’s always been nij
trouble, Fall for anything.”
We drove into town, silent and thought-
ful. Joe Clark was at the bowser it
front of the garage and the boss told mt
to puli the horse up. He called across the
road to Clark: “Hey, Joe! Got i
minute?”
Joe came over. The boss said : “Listen
Joe. I've been thinking about that wood-
yard of mine and your offer. I'm getting
a bit too old for the job. and the kid her<
is a bit too young to be doing all thf
hard yakker. I think 50 quid's a bit lighi
on. but I'll take it if it's cash.”
Joe got out his cheque book anc
settled the deal there and then.
But I think those next six months
while Joe slogged his way through thai
heap of tough old logs, were the mosi
trying I’ve ever lived.
J. C. SHELLEY
That Was the Country.
According to Gabriel, Q. Inspector of
Mstilieries, the following liquor adulter-
ants are in vogue in the North; “Aniline
dyes, sulphuric acid, oil of vitriol, olive
oil and copperas. A wine-maker of Bunda-
berg had doctored his wine with aniline,
copperas, logwood and sulphuric acid.
While making tests at a hotel near Bris-
bane, Gabriel saw a publican pouring
contents of a vessel into another con-
taining spirits. Some of the liquid was
spilt on the publican’s cuff and burnt
holes in it. Once he came across a cask
containing 81b. of solid matter to 11
gallons liquor. The solids consisted of
tobacco, cigars, cloves, pineapple, fibre
and pieces of straw.”
— “Bulletin,’’ October 13, 1900.
The annual Sydney stud rabbit sales
loom near. Already it has been seriously
suggested to the NJS.W. Government that,
instead of trying to exterminate the rabbit
its breed should be improved by the
introduction of Angora rabbits. The
Angora is said to be as much superior to
the ordinary bunny as the Angora goat
is to the secessionist politician.
— “Bulletin,” October 5, 1905
Advt displayed in N-.S.W. town:
“W L —- —, Hairdresser, &c. Hair
cut, Shaving! Com cutting done. Axes
ground. Saws sharpened. N. 8.: No
moisture on feet when come for corn
cutting.”— “Bulletin,” September 22, 1900
A good bushman rarely repeats himself
either in swearing or slanging; for in-
stance, the shearer terms the rouseabont
variously a “loppy,” bluetongue,” “wop-
wop,” “leatherneck,” “crocodile,” etc. By
the way —“when a chock-an-log sniffs old
pot-an-pan he does a carrington,” means
merely that when a dingo scents man he
decamps.— “ Bulletin August 38. 1900.
Way-back where the quandongs (nat-
ive peaches) grow, the youngster bores
a hole through the round, hard nut, ties
it on a long string, and yells “Last lay”
when he meets another youngster. The
latter then puts his nut, called a “bully”;
on the ground; the former whirls his own
“bully” at the end of the string and
with a twirl aims at the “bully” on the
ground. If he smashes the motionless
“bully” his is “bully over one”. If he
misses or neither is broken, then the
other has a “dig” or “whip”.
—“ Bulletin”, March 9, 1901.


The Red Page
The Secret of Nino Culotta
By DOUGLAS STEWART
No Kava for Johnny. John O'Grady.
Ure Smith. 18s. 9d.
OF course it is an awful thing that Nino
Culotta, or John O’Grady, has sold
270,000 copies of “They're a Weird Mob”
and 130,000 copies of “Cop This Lot.”
There must be something wrong with
books that sell like that —though I see
by the latest paperback edition of the
Kon-Tiki book that it has now sold the
staggering total of four million, and there
was nothing whatsoever wrong with that
masterpiece of adventure.
Still, John O’Grady’s books weren t
and weren't meant to be in that class.
There was something wrong with “They’re
a Weird Mob”: it drifted into senti-
mentality. And there was a good deal
wrong with “Cop This Lot”: it was just
a very disjointed travel-book with some
strained attempts to repeat the humor of
the earlier success . . . and a nice beer-
party at the end —the sort of thing you
would expect in a “sequel.”
But what struck me most while read-
ing “No Kava for Johnny” is how very
much there is right in Mr O'Grady’s
writing, best-seller or not. In the first
place this is a remarkably original book
—and so, of course, was “They're a
Weird Mob.”
Nobody until O’Grady came along—
except C. J. Dennis ; and it’s doubtful if
Dennis was really so accurate in either
his language or his observation of charac-
ter —had thought of doing just that kind
of exact picture of the Australian work-
ing-man, not going slumming, not distort-
ing him by propaganda, not inventing
him, but putting him down just as he
is ; with humor, affection —and a little
acceptable flattery. And as for “No Kava
for Johnny,"’ I’ve read a good deal about
the Maoris and the Polynesians and most
of the other islanders round about us,
but Eve never read a book like this
before: taking a small Samoan boy and
following him in his home, in his school,
in his tribal life, every step of the way
until he finishes resplendently as a phar-
macist's assistant in a Government dispen-
sary in Apia.
You do get something a bit like it in
some of the excellent Maori short-stories
by such New' Zealand writers as Roderick
Finlayson and Gloria Rawlinson, and
there was something quite like it —in its
humor and its intimate observation of
the Maoris —in the famous “Old New
Zealand” by Maning, the “pakeha-
Maori”: but not at this length, not so
full and sustained as this in the short-
story writers, and not, in Maning, set in
modern times. Even New Zealanders,
accustomed as they are to the Maoris
in both life and literature, will find this
book astonishing, for the Samoan seems
to be years behind his Maori cousins in
social development, while such tribal life
as still persists among the Maoris has
never been described like this.
In Australia I don’t think we get any-
thing at all like it, even from Roland
Robinson and certainly not from
Katharine Prichard, because everybody
takes the aborigines so seriously. They
are Noble Savages, or they are Social
Problems. They are never human. Mr
O'Grady’s Johnny is most vividly and
amusingly human, and so are all the
other native characters—his friend and
protector Polo ; the Ugly One who teases
and torments him ; the old chief who is
slowly losing his authority ; even, lightly
as they are sketched in, the bright girls
in Apia who laugh at the boy from the
bush.
All this springs, of course, from the
fact that Mr O'Grady is an acute
observer, not merely of idiomatic speech,
but of the characters who speak it. And
if that is hardly a discovery, seeing that
400,000 readers have already discovered
it for themselves, the second secret of
his success still seems worth mentioning:
and that is the cunning with which he
drops onto themes which are certain
(and quite rightly) to appeal to every-
body.
In “They’re a Weird Mob” his device
was simple enough except that nobody
else had thought of it since C. J. Dennis :
it was just that the “average” Australian
would enjoy seeing himself in a mirror:
slightly distorting, distinctly flattering,
basically true enough. In “Cop This Lot,”
had he taken the time to think about it,
his theme was the extremely interesting
one of the peculiarities of the Australian
abroad, and the peculiarities of the local
inhabitants he meets. In the Samoan
book his theme is—of all things!—Charlie
Chaplin’s: the Little Fellow. Johnny is
the quaint, amusing, infinitely sympathetic
little fellow who is always bullied, always
does everything wrong, and always comes
out, if not undamaged, at any rate un-
daunted. He is “bumped on the head”
much too often for comfort or proba-
bility, but he is funny and appealing and
alive.
When he tries to rebel against the Ugly
One and threatens to cut off his head for
making him open all the coconuts, he
falls over and the Ugly One gets the knife
and threatens to cut off his head. When
he is sent on an errand for the old chief
he messes it up and spends far too much
in bus-fares. When, proud of his Eng-
lish, he makes a speech to the visiting
Director of Education, he says quite in-
nocently that all the pakeha (“papalagi”
in Samoan) should also be sent to school
because of the foolish mistakes they make
through not knowing the Samoan langu-
age. When he is stoned out of the village
for defying the chief he causes a tribal
“war.” And on his first day in the dis-
pensary in Apia he spills (quite plausibly)
a bottle of blue dye all over the phar-
macist in charge.
I am quite sure that Mr O’Grady isn’t
a commercial writer, in the sense that he
coldly sits down and thinks out a theme
that will sell. He would never have
risked a book about Samoa at all, when
his Australian writing is so popular, if
“What are you goin crook about? I only asked you how
many kids we've got!"


BOOKHUNTER
l)ept. “D” Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us And it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
LEARN
S TOR Y
WRITING
STOTT’S CAN TRAIN YOU
SUCCESSFULLY
STOTT’S will provide you with interesting',
practical Home-study Instruction of the
highest quality, under the guidance of
thoroughly experienced Instructors.
Write at once for your copy of STOTT’S
Literary Brochure, sent without obligation.
mm
to!) Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 119 Castle-
reash St., Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Bris-
bane; 21 Grenfell St., Adelaide; Howard
St., I J erth.
— CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS .
.AGE
he thought that way. It is just that he
has, willy nilly, the populai touch: what
is sometimes, on more serious occasions,
called universality.
There are one or two minor faults in
this book —I wish he would stop making
all Australians say “Good on yer” and
“How yer goin’ ”: if the educated Eng-
lish say “yoo” or “yaw” or “yuh,” as
they do, we don't have to spell it that
way. And there is one major fault —he
has not yet learnt how to construct a
novel. The story drifts into nothingness
with a vastly prolonged mountaineering
trip and no real climax. But the humor
and the observation and the comic inci-
dents as it goes along are so true and so
refreshing, and the complete change of
scene so surprising and effective, that in
spite of the 400,000 copies I think we had
better start taking Mr O'Grady seriously
as a writer. There is no undue sentimen-
tality in “No Kava for johnny,” and
under its light surface it is a most interest-
ing study of social and racial conditions
in Samoa.
Conquest of the Atom
Birth of the Bomb. Ronald W. Clark.
Phoenix. 20s.
TI/Tr Clark, a noted Canadian war and
foreign correspondent, helps to
illuminate vital history with this exciting
book which tells in detail the steps by
which the conquest of nuclear power was
achieved.
It is especially valuable apart from its
interest, in that it throws the full light of
day on the delusion that the bomb and
atomic fission generally were produced
largely by American science. The first step
towards the harnessing of nuclear power
was the splitting of the atom by Sir
Ernest (later Lord) Rutherford, the New
Zealand-born head of the Cavendish
Laboratory at Cambridge. His feat was
performed in 1919 at Manchester Univer-
sity. Rutherford had little faith in the
possibility of harnessing the atom to
develop nuclear power, but even before
1932, a year which saw the next real pro-
gress, he warned Lord Hankey, Secretary
to the War Cabinet during World War I
and another Australian, of the potential
power of the atom for defence.
The hero of the second break-through
was Sir James Chadwick, “a dark, half-
smiling man, concealing both his shyness
and his greatness behind the immobility
of an ivory Buddha.” He established the
existence of the neutron, which had been
formulated by Rutherford and the great
Danish scientist Niels Bohr working
simultaneously in the first decade of the
century. Rutherford had achieved his
splitting of the atom by using the par-
ticles ejected by radium to bombard and
penetrate a nitrogen nucleus —a one-in-a-
million shot. Now in 1932, Cockcroft
and Walton at Cambridge performed the
same feat more surely and artificially,
speeding up the streams of hydrogen
protons which they used to bombard and
transmute lithium by the use of high
voltages.
The scene of progress now moved into
Germany and it is awesome to feel that
if Hitler had not become fanatical
against the Jews he might well have had
the secret of the nuclear weapon in his
hand. But he not merely let it slip away
—he pushed it out of his grasp.
In 1938, Otto Hahn, a “slight, benign
and kindly little man, quietly trotting
between his home and the Kaiser Wil-
helm Institute in the outskirts of Berlin,”
almost unwittingly unlocked the door of
what is today known as nuclear fission.
Hahn had been a pupil of Sir William
Ramsay in England and in time had
become head of the radio-chemistry
department of the K.W. Institute as oppo-
site number to the Austrian-Jewish radio-
physicist, his former assistant Lise
Meitner —a “strikingly handsome, com-
mandingly independent” woman, who
had sat at the feet of Max Planck.
Hahn now repeated the experiments of
Cockcroft and Walton, as many scientists
were doing the world round, but with
differences. Firstly, instead of using the
positively-charged particles, which were
used by Rutherford and his successors, he
used the uncharged neutrons which had
been proved to exist by Chadwick in the
Cavendish in 1932. These had the advan-
tage that they were not repelled by
charged particles and were no longer in
danger of deflection while in flight to
their targets.
Secondly, and vitally important, he
used a heavy element containing 92
protons, uranium, instead of the light
elements—nitrogen, three protons —and
lithium, the three used by the pioneers,
whose experiments had resulted in a loss
rather than gain of energy.
The use of uranium had been suggested
by some experiments of the Italian
Fermi. Meitner, who had been associated
with Hahn’s work, was now forced to
flee to Sweden to escape Hitler’s regula-
tions against the Jews, while Hahn and
his assistant, Strassman, went on bom-
barding their uranium and producing a
substance which had all the chemical
characteristics of barium, while missing
the real significance of what they had
achieved.
It was left to Lise Meitner in Stock-
holm and her nephew, Otto Frisch, work-
ing with Niels Bohr at Copenhagen —he
is today professor of Natural Philosophy
at Cambridge —to solve the puzzle. Ihese
two, meeting on holiday at Gotenburg
at Christmas-time, 1938, hammered out
the real significances of what Hahn had
done and coined the words ‘nuclear
fission” to describe it, because of the
similarity of the phenomenon to the pro-
cess of fission by which bacteria multiply.
The journal “Nature,” published on
February 11, 1939, contained their
physicists’ interpretation of Hahn’s
chemical results, ihus producing what
Einstein described as the crucial step
towards the production of the bomb.
The story of the pursuit of nuclear-
fission know-how with a view to building
the bomb before the close of the war is
fascinating. First the plunge of the
Cavendish (Cambridge) and Clarendon
(Oxford) laboratories into the work as
early as 1938 ; with the gradual gathering
in of the refugees, who had come both
before and during the earlier years of the
war, and of the workers of Liverpool
and Birmingham.
Chadwick, Cockcroft, George Thom-
son, Frisch from Copenhagen, Rudolph
Peierls from Germany, joined Halban and
Kowarski from France, rescued during
the debacle of 1940 with the whole of
the world’s supply of heavy water, which
Lieutenant Allier had earlier stolen away
from Norway, a few cans that might
have been beer, from under the very
noses of the Germans.
With these were associated the names
of Appleton, Oliphant, Bragg and many
others, Lindemann and Tizard and the
Hanke Committee, presided over by
another great Australian, the Maud
Committee and Sir John Anderson.
All the work tied up with that of Dr
F. W. Aston, the British discoverer of


Isotopes, who in 1937 had forecast what
was to come.
It was the Dane, Bohr, who provided
the theory that nuclear fission in
uranium was caused essentially with the
isotope 235 and Frisch who proved it in
Britain. It was Franz Simon (later Sir
Francis), another Jewish refugee from
Germany, who took the first practical
steps towards devising a method of
separating the fatal isotope, a project
pursued with Kurti, a Hungarian, Arms,
a Continental Rhodes scholar, and others.
The little-heeded story of how the
whoie know-how of the business was
handed over to the Americans is mainly
enshrined in a British White Paper.
It had been recommended in Septem-
ber, 1941, that a pilot plant to produce
uranium 235 should be built under the
ministerial supervision of Sir John
Anderson, himself a nuclear scientist, as
a preliminary to building a full-scale
plant in Canada. The Imperial Chemical
Co. became involved. By mid-October
the Government had decided to go ahead
with the project for producing the bomb
and heavy water in Canada, resulting in
formation of the exclusively British Tube
Alloys organisation, the first organisation
the world had known to produce nuclear
power, violent or otherwise, on an indus-
trial scale.
AH the British secrets, all the work of
British and refugee scientists working
under British control in British labora-
tories, was handed over, along with the
secrets of radar, to the Americans, who
were staggered at the progress made with
such devices as the magnetron valve.
This knowledge, given in return for
immediately needed help in the war,
brought the United States (whose own
research had been confined to slow
neutrons and the industrial field) suddenly
on to the threshold of the nuclear and
electronic age.
M.H.E.
Short Stories
Russian Short Stories. Everyman
Paperback. 7s.
The Great Wave. Mary Lavin. Mac-
millan. 20s.
As my ieast favorite form of criticism
is that which arbitrarily and unfairly
contrasts one volume with another
because the reviewer happened to receive
them both in the same mail, these two
collections will be considered separately.
The attractive Everyman paperback
(attractively priced) has assembled some
of the best and best-known Russian
short stories of the 19th and early 20th
centuries. Rochelle Townsend’s intro-
duction is brief and necessarily limited
and her translations of the stories oddly
ambiguous. Comparison with other
standard translations reveals only what
this kind of comparison usually reveals:
that one translator excels where the other
is weakest, and vice versa. She seems,
in some of the early classical stories, to
limit herself deliberately to the exact
letter of the original text and then
dazzles with an unexpected opening-up
of the often cryptic originals with deli-
cate and revealing phrases which release
the meaning more precisely than the most
literal rendering ever could.
The collection has a good balance
between familiar and less-known stories.
Pushkin’s exasperatingly laconic master-
piece, “The Queen of Spades,” gets the
show off to a flying start. The more one
reads this almost Biblically understated
prose the more one realises what a beauti-
ful elaboration the Thorold Dickinson
film version of a decade ago was, and
how its evocation of the period derived
firmly from the merest hint in the story.
Gogol's sympathetic ironies have often
seemed to Westerners preferable to the
pious solemnities of Tolstoi, and here the
poised satire of “The Cloak” reveals the
citified Russian tormented and humiliated
by bureaucracy with more genuinely
humanist gusto than Tolstoi's rustic
morality “Korney Vasiliev” achieves for
the doom-laden peasants.
“The Murmuring Forest” of Koro-
lenko is less than persuasive as a legend
but effective in its impression of the
Russian woodland landscape. “A Grand
Slam” (Andreyev) is, as we edge towards
a more modern, middle-class outlook,
slight and disappointing, though like all
the later stories vivid in its detail.
Gorki’s “In the Steppes” gives us the
celebrated Russian fatalism, but is hardly
his best narrative or character piece.
Chirikov’s “Faust” dissects marriage
with a wealth of ironic detail ; the relent-
less abrasiveness of two people living
together over a long period is touched in
with clarity and detachment. Chekhov’s
bitter-sweet study of romantic foolish-
ness, “The Kiss,” is so completely
realised (and the atmosphere so familiar)
that one almost expects characters from
“The Sea Gull” or “The Cherry
Orchard” to come wandering around the
corner at any moment. The story is an
excellent choice for such an anthology ;
it contains the quintessence of Chekhov,
the feeling for those scruffy little provin-
cial towns, his oblique sympathy and
poised humor, his sense of how the ridi-
culous and the pathetic overlap.
In fact, this same sense seems to be
a common factor in the more modern of
the writers here represented. Their dead-
pan manner of putting down side by
side descriptions which show both “sym-
pathetic” and “unsympathetic” aspects of
their characters gives a dimension and
GULL
Gull over the ocean, hung on unseen
wires,
Life’s Chinese kite to frighten lone-
liness
—So, my soul hovers. It is as brave,
tires
Only when Life’s day ends. Then, who
will guess
its roosting place ; wonder whether
on wave
Or dune-crest with the restless wind
That troubles sea and sand ceaselessly
It struggles? Wave, and thought after
thought of the mind,
All repetitions of hours, days, years,
find
It no wing-span nearer knowing.
Wave after wave,
The endless oceans of gull, of mind ;
For bird and spirit there is only a sea,
Its loneliness to frighten away. Oh
gull, oh kite,
Hover with my questing soul through
Death’s long night.
JOHN BLIGHT
ESPRESSO BAR
In my day when we changed the
world we drank
Our coffee at Repin’s or in Claridge’s
Lost cafe near Wynyard, place of dust
and corners
Where lovers in the dim light drifted,
sank
Below notice of others to remoter
tables
Whereas,'at Repin’s, bright geometry
Compelled attention to re-filled cups,
one’s bill
And argument across aisles. We spoke
the fables
Also, at the Arabian, of our green
years
And longed and looked for wicked-
ness, disappointed.
Mistaking evil’s scent for evil’s self.
We too were confident, splendid in
our fears
That no one, except too late, would
pay solemn heed
To our enormous, urgent wisdom. In
the shuffle
And interlock of selves, of he and she
Coffee-logged, we composed our eager
creed . . .
Then duly, gradually, went our ways,
Left war jobs at war’s end and went
to work
Switching to gin and sherry for our
to and fro.
For we too painted our eyes in other
days.
As I remember, perched on plastic
chair.
Mouth bitter with espresso, envying
doe-eyes
Directed to beards that might mask
once-known faces
Except those chins, this decade are
shaved of hair:
As I remember, perched outside,
feeling in
For ten brief minutes. I mus» Hasten,
they
Flave all the smoky night to change
the world
And would not thank me to proclaim
us kin.
NANCY KEESING


A SHOOTING STAR
Wallace Stegner
A major novel by a “master, one of the deepest, truest, and most
likeable writers in America."
This is how C. P. Snow describes Wallace Stegner who, with his
novel, A SHOOTING STAR, takes his place beside Steinbeck,
O’Hara and Cozzens - - - 22/6
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
London :: Melbourne :: Sydney :: Auckland
accuracy to their portraits not often
found in more slanted Western fiction
where we are often expected to take sides
and not, as we can with these Russian
masters, accept, love, hate and pity the
whole man.
As a short-story writer between hard
covers Mary Lavin has to overcome an
enormous prejudice one tends to harbor
against all Irish fiction. Always except-
ing the great plays of Synge and O’Casey,
Irish stories, novels, films seem bent on
alienating the non-believer with an
annihilating blend of grotesquerie, fey-
ness, goonish leprechaun humor, offensive
religiosity dragged in wholesale and a
distasteful patriotism of an unpleasantly
Chauvinistic kind. Or perhaps it’s just
that every Irish writer seems born with
an unfair advantage over other writers:
immediate access to one of the most
glorious, rich and rhythmic idioms in the
world.
Miss Lavin manages to eschew the
feyness (although it creeps in here and
there as in the pointless “Bridal Sheets”
piece) and for the most part the reli-
giosity, although it’s sometimes touch and
go. Her city studies seem too “New
Yorkerish” and slender for their length
and even her best stories (such as
“Lemonade”) seem, on balance, senti-
mental and inconclusive. The best tale
is undoubtedly the title one, “The Great
Wave,” which—for once the blurb is
accurate —has in its “elemental tragedy”
an “almost biblical” magnificence. The
language is at once spare and vivid, richly
suggestive but not over-fussy with detail,
and she revives the hoary Irish device,
the fishing isle undergoing a sea tragedy,
with some power and beauty.
ALAN SEYMOUR
Miles and Millions
The Golden Mile. Herb Elliott, as told
to Alan Trengove. Cassell. 255.
A lan Trengove’s prose is as breezy as
ever blew, but from its journalese
an engaging picture emerges of an Aus-
tralian Catholic schoolboy’s life in Perth,
celebrating winning the school open all-
round championship in 1955 (mile,
880yds., 440yds., 220yds., 100yds., and
broad jump) by jamming his father’s car
between gateposts and being chased by
police at 75 m.p.h.
The casual insouciance of youth is
also no doubt responsible for Elliott’s
few remarks on the flaccidity of Ameri-
can muscles, the easy living which denies
the American-born success in athletics
that require staying power ; but this is
only a small part of the book, whose
best chapters make a portrait of his
extraordinary trainer, Percy Cerutty. It
is really something to see the old trainer
presenting his charge with an Omar
Khayyam for his 19th birthday,
inscribed:
....those who do not progress do not
need such contemplations as provided by
the Rubaiyat: such folk are best left in
their simple faiths without inquiring too
deeply into them as to their truth or
realness.
Not to be outdone, Elliott presented
his trainer on his birthday with the “Life”
volume of “The World’s Great
Religions.”
From a practical point of view Cerutty’s
spirituality seems to have been the teach-
ing ot the conquest of pain. Elliott’s con-
tinual and mostly casual references to it
in his descriptions of his championship
runs all over the world should be enough
to give all but the bravest pause.
He is also good on the lowering of the
pulse-rate that is part of a distance-
runner’s training, and on the rule that
mile racers must not be paced (i.e., set
a stiff speed by a contestant who drops
out half-way), and the devices used to
avoid the rule.
In a general way, apart from his
Dublin mile in 3 : 54.5 sec., Herb Elliott’s
greatest claim to fame is as the principal
or victim of the American fight-promoter
Leo Leavitt’s effort to turn him profes-
sional. To Australians unacquainted with
American ways Mr Leavitt’s invasion of
the country with the cry that this boy
was his meat and he was going to have
him constituted something novel and
startling in sociology. The book gives
it a chapter, from the first 250,000-dollar
approach to the conferences on taxes;
Elliott’s decision against the offer, and
Leavitt’s return and amazing outbursts ;
and in a later chapter mentions the return
of Leavitt to the charge two years later
in the American law courts with a
million-dollar action which kept Elliott
on tenterhooks for a few months in 1960
until July 20, when, by not filing com-
plaints in Victoria, Leavitt abandoned the
case.
With, of course, a complete list of
Elliott’s mile-records, accounts of his
tours and Olympic races, and assessments
of his adversaries.
RONALD McCUAIG
Hand Made
Eastward. Albin Eiger. Wattle Grove
Press, Tasmania. “Only a few copies
remain of a limited edition of 50.
In flexible cover, £5; also in a leather
folder, bound with silk cord in the
style of the Imperial Ming manu-
scripts, £10; and the same, illustrated
by numerous drawings (originals)
and photographs, £20.”
r T"'HERE are many people for whom, in
this technological age, the words
“hand made” assume an almost mystical
significance. But no matter how beauti-
ful a book looks its primary purpose is
to be read —points that used to occupy
the protagonists and antagonists of Wil-
liam Morris still have their validity when
books like “Eastward” are offered.
One cannot separate the contents of a
book such as this entirely from the book
as a whole—its paper, printing, binding
and general appearance. In this case
it would be doubly impossible to do so
because the poems to my eye are practi-
cally impossible to decipher as a result
of a clumsy, heavy, script-like type and
a peculiar system of punctuation and
layout. The only way I can allow my
thoughts to concentrate on the poetic-
content here is to type out some of the
poems.
“Eastward” is a travel record in free
verse. The first part (1910-1927) takes
one through Italy, Austria and France.
Part Two (1927-1949), covers Ceylon,
China and Japan ; and Part Three (1949-
1952), India and Afghanistan. Each
part has notes. Here is canal grande :
lake city which emerged from depths below,
cursed by the sunken ones but praised
by angel choirs, where into wet oblivion
sometimes an entire row of houses fades,
from year to year decaying in deeper
shadows.
waiting in pallor for the stark day.
when your loggias filled with tuba sounds
break open for the waves and the red
dawn.
canals will gurgling cleave like fish mouths,
vomiting galleons and sack-drowned souls
akin to larvae straining to creep forth
as giant butterflies on the day beyond
restraint —
and over the sea a voice which breaks in
plaint.
the sea-folk wail for you. banned one in
holy light.
Yes, the verse in its formless way is
pleasant enough and often quite provok-
ing of thought and I truly regret that
the effort of deciphering it has so dis-
tracted me from what Mr Eiger says.
N. KING


Shows
The Armidale Pictures
'T'he man who seems to know most
about the Armidale pictures is the
caretaker —or he might have been a
carpenter —at the Teachers’ College At
ART
any rate he wears khaki overalls
and not only knew where the
various special collections of
Gruners and Hilders and Hey-
sens and Norman Lindsays were to be
located, but had a key to unlock the
classrooms: a most invaluable man to
find on a rushed Saturday morning when
you are driving down from Brisbane to
Sydney along the New England Highway.
This is the fabulous collection of Aus-
tralian art which Howard Hinton, the
Sydney shipping man, donated to Armi-
dale because he loved buying paintings
and because the Sydney Gallery, when he
first offered to give them what he had
bought, turned him down. He bought
and gave away the pictures year after year
as they came up in the Sydney exhibi-
tions, always paying the full price and
never trying to beat the artist down in
private; and after his death he bequeathed
to the College the little special collec-
tion (now in the library) which he had
kept for his private delight.
One of these really took my breath
away: partly because it was such a
beautiful landscape, partly because it was
a Streeton and, fine craftsman though he
was, full of dash and bravura, you don’t
expect a Streeton to be exactly beautiful.
But these men of assured quality always
have their masterpieces tucked away
somewhere, usually in private collections ;
and this was unquestionably a master-
piece. It is quite a small picture ; just a
track running up a green hillside ; and
what makes it a masterpiece is partly the
light, partly the green against the blue
sky, partly the solidity of the earth, mostly
the authoritative technique and authen-
ticity of observation (since that was
Streeton’s aim), and finally the indefin-
able thing called quality.
There was also a most interesting little
Gruner in that special collection, a small,
rich study of a pine-tree from Rotorua
in Gruner’s native New Zealand ; and a
big Heysen oil, as breathtaking as the
Streeton and even more lovely, of willows
in afternoon light, rather like the one that
is sold in reproductions at the Sydney
Gallery. Fashions change, but Heysen at
his best is superb.
I know that Hinton had some Hilders
and some Norman Lindsays in his private
collection but these, unless I missed them
in the library, seem to have been hung
in other rooms. One of the classrooms
has an exquisite little Hilder (worth
about £6OO these days) of a boat moored
among rushes: typical of those infinitely
tranquil pictures he wrung out of his
short and tormented life. One classroom
is crammed from end to end with Norman
Lindsay watercolors: the famous “White
Peacock,” showing his art at its most
graceful, the huge and sparkling picture
of Ulysses crashing his way between
Scylla and Charybdis, and an absolutely
miraculous watercolor of Don Quixote,
a fantastic, beautifully painted thing, like
a dream.
What else? Well, there is a glowing
little study of a nude in firelight by
Arthur Murch; Margaret Coen’s white
camellias with the green background and
the green jade Buddha ; Daryl and Lionel
Lindsay ; G. K. Townshend, John Elder-
shaw, J. W. Maund and Ronald Steuart;
Julian, Will, Howard, and Richard Ash-
ton, the portraits which Hinton com-
missioned Hanke to paint of Ted Scor-
field and John Frith ; a fine nocturne by
Lance Solomon ; a very firm and warm
landscape by that almost forgotten
painter Llewellyn Jones, who might
become a minor collector’s piece in years
to come .. . dozens of things. The
whole huge building, every corridor and
every classroom, is crowded with paint-
ings. The collection must be worth a
fortune.
It would be absurd to try to review the
lot of it. But it does seem worth draw-
ing attention to the fact that it exists ;
and, if you can find that obliging carpen-
ter, can be seen ; and that, with the
possible exception of Adelaide (Brisbane,
like Sydney, keeps most of its paintings
in the store-rooms) it is the finest col-
lection of Australian art you can see in
any one place. It is, of course, limited
in scope and period, and what Armidale
needs now is some new benefactor to keep
the collection up-to-date. There would
always be room for it in the University
if the Teachers’ College is full up.
Maybe the Art Advisory Board could
continue what Hinton started.
DOUGLAS STEWART
Home to Mamushka
Ballad of a Soldier. Sydney Gala.
X/fAYBE if we had not seen “It Happened
One Night” with Gable and Lom-
bard and all the other cross-country tours
in which the hero meets a variety of
FILMS
character actors this prize
Russian film (Cannes and
San Francisco Festivals, 1960)
might have seemed more
novel. But it is interesting as a Russian
variation on the theme.
The 19-year-old field telephonist who
was awarded a few days home leave for
knocking out two German tanks with
something like a bazooka is delayed on
his long series of train journeys by a
crippled soldier who doesn’t want to go
home to his wife because he thinks she
won’t want him with a leg off, by a
visit to give the wife of a front-line soldier
two cakes of soap and a further detour
to give them to the soldier’s father after
discovering that the wife is living with
another man, by a pretty girl who gets
in the same goods train with him and
begins by screaming for mamma and ends
by falling in love with him ; and in this
train they are bullied by the armed guard
in the name of his brute of an officer—
who, on discovering them, turns out to
have a heart of gold.
Having lost hour after hour under this
artful direction (Chukrai’s), he has only
about ten minutes to say hail and farewell
to his old mother before he is back on the
truck that brought him and off to the front
and the death foreshadowed in the open-
ing of the film: crippled soldier, soldier’s
unfaithful wife, pretty girl, mother —all
left behind . . . what fun ; nichevo!
There was more than mere adaptation
of European comedy to nichevo: in the
treatment of the people there was some-
thing of the serious, impersonal mind the
Russians bring to nature films ; the dis-
tinctions of dress, speech, class, money
that add a sparkling complexity to
American and European films are here
minimised, and you are up against the
human animal: this is how the human
mother cries; this is how the young
human female acts in the mating season ;
this is how the mate of a legless human
cherishes him.
In this way the acting is excellent, and
the opening scene in which the hero
knocks out the German tanks, with a
brilliant manipulation of tanks and field
upside down to express the hero’s hysteria
while the tank is chasing him, is really
first class.
RONALD McCUAIG
A Two-way
Stretch
Because any well-chosen concert pro-
gramme is itself a work of art, reveal-
ing the many-sidedness or otherwise of
a performer’s mind and his gift for
MUSIC
musical contrasts and paral-
lels, I was not happy to divide
an evening between the Quar-
tetto di Roma at Sydney
Town Hall and pianist Mindru Katz at
the Conservatorium.
The Italian ensemble, with Ornella
Santoliquido’s piano quite unduly muffled
and the two top strings unable to rise to
the strength and thrust needed for
episodes of force, w'as not able to win
more than a politely attentive hearing in
the Brahms Quartet in C Minor. They
introduced a quartet by contemporary
Giulio Viozzi, a solemn professorial exer-
cise in its first two movements —where the


music wears a deep frown in the hope
that that will pass as a mark of wisdom—
and a lively homage to Bartok in the
finale.
It disappointed me to have to miss the
first of Faure’s piano quartets, not merely
because it is among the most supremely
entrancing works ever written for the com-
bination but because it could well have
imparted a final shapeliness to a pro-
gramme which, as far as the interval,
seemed spasmodic and unshapely.
But while the Faure was lost, there
were some quite marvellous compensa
tions to be had from the first book of
Debussy preludes, with which Katz was
completing his opening Sydney recital.
The range of his imagination and tech-
nique in these dozen piece of impression-
ism. so many subtle variations in touch
and so many varieties of sonority, left me
in no doubt as to Katz's great stature
among modern pianists.
The crisp shortbread brittleness of his
“Interrupted Serenade’’ and “Minstrels ’
was alive with the flair and dash of a
lightning pencil sketcher. And the for-
lorn, moody, almost empty images of
“Steps in Snow,” with its obstinate D-to-E
and E-to-F semiquaver stumbles, proved
this sometimes despised piece to be among
the most beautiful and original inventions
in the set.
LINDSEY BROWNE
La Sutherland
Australia’s Joan Sutherland, whom
the Italians call La Stupenda and
whom the English—(with restraint) —
call C.8.E., has returned to London after
winning an "Orpheus” in France for the
best singing disc of the year (The Art
of the Prima Donna), making a trium-
phant debut in Milan —(“A New Star,”
“Voice of Paganini”) —and causing a
furore in Venice, where she disagreed
with the conductor on tempi and refused
to go on.
In London she is singing Lucia di
Lammermoor again, and singing it with
more artistic ease than ever before. There
is no longer the slightly acrobatic element
of excitement and suspense about the
decorative passages. Her whole perfor-
mance is more relaxed and stage-assured,
but she still has that quality of pathetic
defencelessness that makes her an ideal
Lucia, drama-wise.
The production is still Zeffirelli's, with
its muted old-print sets and costumes,
its gauzy romantic mistiness and its
charmingly arranged action. Even he,
however, has not been able to keep La
Sutherland acting all the time ; this is
an opera designed to display the prima
donna and there are moments —producer
willing or not —when the soprano must
stand still, watch the humble conductor
devoutly and show just what she can do
vocally. Sutherland does this thrillinglv.
She goes now to Rome to record Lucia
and Rigoletto and next season comes
back to Covent Garden for her first
Nonna.
RAY MATHEW
Seymour Again
She One Day of the Year, by Alan
Seymour. Union Theatre. Mel-
bourne.
A rush trip from Sydney to Melbourne
to see an entirely new cast and new
production approach in Seymour’s Anzac
Day play confirmed Sydney estimates of
THEATRE
the play ; a thoroughly
enthusiastic audience re-
sponse to its forthright
Australianism and
a lively appreciation of the strong pro-
fessional hand at work in dialogue and
characteristation At that, it clearly
ranked no higher than an efficient minor
play, with probably no considerable
appeal to anybody but Australians
acquainted with all its terms of reference.
John Sumner’s skilful and firm pro-
duction was rather lighter in weight than
the recent Lovejoy production in Sydney,
partly because the slum father, as Wyn
Roberts drew him, seemed much less
actuated by deep personal frustration as
he blew his top about the society which
allowed him no more than a career as a
liftman. Mr Roberts was clearly enjoy-
ing all the comical possibilities of bad
manners, and was often most amusing at
that level.
Mr Sumner's production, to mention
another difference, was less successful
than Mr Lovejoy’s in minimising the
priggishness of the two young people in
revolt against the parents’ blocked-sink
habits of living, and to this extent the
youngsters loomed as much less sympa-
thetic than they were entitled to seem,
since their problem is as real and as
genuine as that of their elders. As Aus-
tralians educated to h'gher values in
many ways, they have every right to be
heard sympathetically in their rejection
of the loud-mouthed damn-everybody
boorishness which is one conspicuous
layer of Australianism.
L. B.
Study in Itch craft
The Seven Year Itch. Ensemble
Theatre. Sydney.
'TTiis play is one of the brighter members
A of that class of comedy in which
guilty urges are exorcised by being
exercised—a comedy of wish-fulfilment.
Assuming that every husband, no matter
how happily married, gets an attack of
wandering eye from time to time, play-
wright George Axelrod takes a typical
case, sends his wife and child away for a
few days, introduces him to the sex-dream
girl from the flat upstairs and lets them
have a one-night affair without forbidding
complications.
The only kickbacks come mildly from
the husband's conscience, and even these
serve only to send him back to nis wife
with strengthened devotion. It is the
American dream of having it both ways
brought off without a stumble, laughing
frankly at itself and disarming the
moralists at every turn with a high-level
burlesque.
It was this last elusive quality which
the Ensemble players most often missed,
though producer Hayes Gordon had
clearly set them after it. Scenes that
should have taken nimbly to the ; air
carried too much weight of overstatement
or were simply flat. James Scullin, though
suitably dazed as the husband finding his
desires brought to possibly dangerous
reality, and excellent in morning-after
guiltiness, hardly made the desires them-
selves convincing in the first place.
Valerie Heighes, given the daunting
task of recreating the sex-dream girl after
Marilyn Monroe in the film of a few years
back, was nice enough in repose, but
seldom caught in motion or speech
the teasing and uncalculated sexiness
essential to the part. John Dennis showed
uncommon flair as the psychiatrist-author
who keeps blundering in between the
husband and his hopes.
J.A.
Revue with Acid
“Skitso.*’ University Revue Company.
Dolphin Theatre. Perth.
CLvtire is the acid still needed to give a
tang to Australian drama ; even an
undergraduate dash, lightheartedly tossed
in by the W.A. University Revue Com-
pany, can whet the appetite.
From start to finish it was original:
music composed by Frank Arndt, scripts
by Lyle Bowden. Peter Flanigan, Bill
Warnock and Joan Pope (who also pro-
duced and did the choreography).
Painted backdrops, many capturing the
essence of local scenes, made Robin Mc-
Donald's sets agreeably distinctive.
Topical comment had more bite, was
more frequent and apt, than last year.
Strikes on the waterfront, the credit
squeeze, Cuba, the Congo, all were cele-
brated. The Cuba piece was jauntily
ludicrous, the African corrosive adding
the touch of horror needed to sharpen
wit and heighten fun.
Two “general” skits were particularly
entertaining. “Golden Wedding,” com-
plete with speeches and photographers,
was mimed by the company. The second
lampooned Noel Coward and Tennessee
Williams, using the story of the Three
Bears as the tale to be dramatised,
respectively.
H. DRAKE-BROCKMAN


Other People’s Houses
On a pilgrimage to an English Stately Home the Australian made an unexpected discovery
By PETER SHRUBB
London fascinated Frank, bewitched him, from the moment
he set eyes on it. Even the pallid little narrow porter
who led them through gloomy Waterloo to the boat
train baggage area B fascinated him. “He fought in the
First World War,” he whispered to Rita.
“You’re off your head,” she whispered back. “He’s no
older than you are.”
“I’ve seen him in Flanders fields, with a bandage around
his head, in puttees, standing in the mud, smiling at the
photographer: that very man!"
“This is a great beginning,” Rita said.
Their taxi driver looked like Lord Kitchener, and the
proprietor of their private hotel in Hampstead had the trans-
parent ecclesiastical sort of face Frank had seen, he said, in
a hundred mediaeval prints. Standing at the window of their
room, from which on that clear April day they could just
pick out, away in the distance, the grey dome of St. Paul’s,
Frank said, “I’ll bet every English chromosome has a little
bust of William the Conqueror built into it somewhere.'’
“Our landlord has a built-in bushranger,” Rita said.
“Ned Kelly, or Bold Jack Donohoe. What a robber!”
“Is he really a robber, Mummy?” Tony asked, with
wide eyes.
Rita snatched him up. “7’ra the robber!” she growled.
“And now I’ve got you! And I’m going to eat you!” But
Tony proved too loud and vigorous a mouthful.
T}rank very soon had his theory of England all worked out.
The chief difficulty of the visitor, he explained to Rita,
was to decide which were people and which were objects.
The people, he claimed, had recognisable historical objects,
historical occasions—the First World War, the Boer War, the
Factory Acts—built right into their faces along with their
other features, their noses and mouths ; and, to confound
confusion, most of the buildings had so many human associa-
tions that they practically spoke to you ; even the trees had
a civilised air, as if they knew their own rights and the
lights of others.
Rita thought it a very good theory, especially because it
did not interfere with happy practice. That very first afternoon
they nearly lost themselves on Hampstead Heath, playing
robbers ; and more happy mornings and afternoons followed.
Tony liked the Museum of Natural History best, with
its enormous whale hanging from the ceiling; Rica liked
Soho, and the National Gallery, and Charing Cross Road,
and all the little squares ; and Frank liked everything, from
the palaces and parks to the Lyons Cornerhouses, all of
which Tony knew by sight within three weeks. Because of
Tony it was difficult for them to get about much at nights.
They were a little sorry that he was too small for it to be
hoped that much of what he saw by day would remain in
his memory long. Frank tried very hard, with lessons that
were games and games that were lessons, to impress upon
him what they learnt each day ; and was more than content
to spend the evenings devouring guide books and pamphlets
and histories ; he believed his life had never been so full.
/”\N a Sunday in May, in the little blue Hillman Rita’s father
had helped them buy on the export, they set off to visit
their first country house.
All the way out of London blossom was falling. Full
candles lit every chestnut, the lilac was delicately opening,
and cherry blossom fell everywhere under the gusty spring
wind ; on some corners in some streets it blew like heavy
pink snow all over the car. Outside London, though, green
was the color, those glittering northern greens the Baylisses
had known to expect, but which even Frank did not feel at
home among. The pink was foreign, but beneath these lusty
greens, Frank felt, lay the secret life of England.
The country house, set at the end of two long lines of
bare, petrified-looking oaks, was huge and almost black, and
when Frank saw it his heart beat faster. But how many times
had he not already seen it! Tintagel, Blenheim, Kenilworth,
Hampton Court, Hatfield —how many times had he not sat
to their laden tables, walked their great halls, slept beneath
their high roofs! How many times had he not peered through
an oriel window at some messenger galloping up the drive,
overheard conversations from behind a thick oak door! How
many times had he not closed his book and heard not the
mopoke but a nightingale!
A cold wind chased them over the bare parking area,
past a low crumbling brick wall, and beneath tall stone walls
and decorated windows to the door. They paid their half
crowns at the postcard and booklet table, and the plain young
lady there asked them to wait, with the other visitors, in the
great entrance hall. There they first stopped Tony from
trying a slide over the black and white marble chequerboard
floor, and then unwillingly allowed him to swing from their
arms; they had inspected only one of the four gleaming
suits of armor that stood along the wall when the guide came
to start the group on its tour.
“Ladies and gentlemen,” the guide said, and waited for
their attention.
TTf was a small tubby man, pale and pink-cheeked, with
long, thin black hair ; he wore a very dark grey suit, and
held one hand companionably over the top of his head.
“This, ladies and gentlemen,” he went on, “is one of the
great houses of England.”
He let his hand fall in one summary embracing arc to
his side ; like startled birds the glances of his fold took flight,
and swooped and fluttered around the soaring dim cage of a
room. But in a moment they all softly settled back on his
face and shoulders again, and he went on.
“It is a treasure house. But not only of gold and silver
and glass ; if it were only gold and silver and glass here,
we would simply put up a row of showcases —and burglar
alarms.” He smiled admonitorily, and those who were not
burglars smiled back.
“My purpose, ladies and gentlemen, and my privilege, is
not just to show you gold, but to help you see this house as
a treasury of English history, from today right back to the
days of Welsh Harry.”
His little belly jerked forward as if he’d been lightly
kicked behind ; he looked hastily over his shoulder, and very
apologetically amended himself with, “His Majesty King
Henry the Eighth, that is, I should say ”
Three or four ladies laughed as if someone had tickled
them; with a eurythmic, dipping sort of bow the guide
indicated that his few preliminaries were now over. “Please
follow me,” he said.
He led, and at the back of the room Frank and Rita told
Tony to stop it. But Tony took one swing for the road before
it was time to go ; then, following the others, he and his
parents shuffled over the black and white marble to the very
heavily carved old door the guide had opened, and which,
when they were through, he closed again.
The guide said, “For at least twelve hundred years, ladies
and gentlemen, there has been continuous human habitation
on this site. First there were rude Celtic dwellings of which
few traces remain, then a wing of the old palace, and now—
for the last three hundred and seventy years, that is—the


Great Banquet Hall. You see it now almost exactly as it was
seen three hundred and seventy years ago by the first visitors
who came to wonder and exclaim, and as it has been seen
since then by the kings, princes, prime ministers and potentates
who have enjoyed the liberal hospitality of this table. The
room is seventy-five feet long and thirty-two feet wide. The
walls, you will note, are oak-panelled to the ceiling; the
ceiling, which is a full twenty-five feet above us, is both
painted and panelled.” He paused. “Please examine what
you will, and in a few moments I shall tell you more.” He
put his hand back on his head.
Seeing the gesture, Frank thought he understood it as
well as if he had made it himself: which he was tempted
to do, for the air seemed full of weight, and his head its
only fragile support. He stood very still, and to his mind's
eye there appeared, above him, a sort of archaeologist's
trench, of air, inverted: layer upon thin layer rich with the
traces of history, the sights and sounds of it perhaps elec-
trically impressed, somehow', on the molecules of air, so that
up near the red and gold emblazoned ceiling some sensitive
instrument might, one day, catch the w'hisper of Elizabeth’s
very voice. He looked up, and the ceiling seemed to shift.
T> ita, smiling, came behind him. “A house, they call it?”
Frank nodded. Tony settled under his hand for a moment,
and then was off again, unbelievably, across a floor Henry the
Eighth’s daughter once regally paced.
“Isn’t it incredible?” Rita asked.
“It all is,” Frank replied.
He looked up at the ceiling again. One of the first
discoveries of the trip had been that stone and wood high
up beneath the roofs of great buildings were often brightly
painted ; and now, as he gazed upwards, he felt that painted
ceilings had never been really seen till he first saw them. Your
lover and apostle is here, he told this one, your friend and
champion, and he dwelt on its bright details with all the
careful slow pleasure of a man eating a meal that would
never grow cold.
But in a minute the guide began his Banquet Hall
chapter, calling upon them all to examine the table, the
fireplace, the window, the musicians’ gallery, the doors, the
w'alls, the floor, the ceiling; explaining who had put this
here and that there, and when, and why, and for whom.
He w'orked a few little jokes in, and closed the chapter with
the ceiling, the 12 huge panels of which, he said, were based
on reliefs of “The Labors of the Months” made by Luca
della Robbia for the ceiling of the study of Piero de’ Medici
in Florence in the fifteenth century.
Frank, nettled, felt that he should have been the one
to know this ; but he immediately shook off such foolishness.
At the door, as they all left the room, the guide graciously
presented Tony with a big green sweet wrapped in cello-
phane. “With the compliments of the house,” he said, with
a smile, a little soft smile like King Charles the First’s.
Tony seemed suspicious, or perhaps was merely shy, and
would not accept it.
Frank took him by the shoulders and faced him squarely
at the guide, and said, “Thank you very much, sir.”
“Thank you very much, sir,” Tony muttered, and reached
out and took it.
“It’s very kind of you,” Frank added.
But Tony had twisted away to show his mother what he
had been given ; the guide, still smiling, hurried on ahead.
Tony enjoyed the piece of apple he had after every meal
to clean his teeth, but it was with a slow hand that now,
while Frank and Rita watched him, he opened his pocket and
began lowering his great new sugary emerald into it ; and
before he let go he asked Rita, in a voice already disappointed,
“When can 1 have it?”
There were always exceptions ; Rita looked at Frank, and
Frank said, “It probably wouldn't be quite right |ust to
stash it away.”
Not that the guide was looking: he was on the other
side of the room now, talking to a French girl. Frank watched
him, and while Rita bent over to unwrap the sweet he watched
the French girl too, with her enormous mop of flossy white
hair and her short tight skirt ; Rita's brown curls, as she
shook them back, straightening up, seemed by comparison
untutored, Antipodean.
They both looked down at Tony’s bulging cheek, and
Rita said, “Somewhere here there's a tea room or something,
1 know. Maybe he can get an apple there.”
Then the guide began again.
r T'HE room they were in now was a sort of sitting room,
* and much smaller than the hall ; but it had its own
distinctions. Its panelling was superb, it contained two very
fine late mediaeval chairs, and along the wall was a magnificent
ambry, its huge doors deeply carved with scenes of the chase.
The guide did not mention the ceiling, but Frank saw that
though it was less ornate than the other, it too was very
beautiful ; he and the tall white-haired old American, he
thought, w'ere the only ones who had looked.
He imagined the American to be the learned curator of
a museum in Virginia ; it crossed his mind, as they all trooped
down the long corridor leading to the family chapel, that
the American, if he were observant, might have come to
some similar conclusion about him. The idea was a pleasant one.
The guide was the last to enter the chapel. Closing the
door behind him carefully, he gently pushed through the little
group of his charges, murmuring soft apologies, till he reached
the aisle. There he turned, stood facing the altar ’like some
solemn statue for a moment, and then, with deliberation,
bowed his head.
It seemed to Frank one of the most beautiful actions he
had ever seen, and for the time it lasted he too stood quite
still. The room was utterly quiet.
The guide slowly lifted his head.
That man, Frank thought then, feeling his mind suddenly
flood with light, his heart suddenly fill, that man alone, of


all of us here, has a life that stands for something. He does
what he knows to be right and the rest of us just look on,
pieces of wood no carpenter has put a hand to. We watch:
all we can do is watch.
The guide smiled, and the charmed moment ended. The
tour continued.
Frank found it harder to concentrate, after what he had
just seen ; but the chapel, he found, was more than worth
the effort. There were two brasses, a window, a font, and
finally, like an unlooked for blessing, a bequest, there was
the first pew on the north. Family tradition had it, the guide
said, that the seat of that pew, stolen here from a chapel now
no longer in existence, had on many occasions borne the
weight of none other than unhappy Anne Boleyn herself.
As if she sat there still, as if he heard the rich soft rustle
of her dress, as if the darkness would in a moment reveal
her sad face, Frank stared and stared. The long, unadorned,
narrow’ piece of wood, thinned a little at the edge now,
seemed to him full of stronger life than his own, and wiser
than he would ever be. He stared, and the words the
guide spoke seemed to speak inside his own head, telling
the story of Anne’s life. At her execution, blood spurted
into his dreaming mind with a shock so real, so brutal, that
almost involuntarily he jerked his head up, away from it,
with sudden pain.
When he opened his eyes again, a moment later, the guide
stood by the narrow door up near the altar, and people had
begun filing out. He and Tony reached the door —and there,
dangling from the guide’s plump fingers, was another fat
shining sweet, a red one.
“Thank you very much, sir,” Tony said, accepting it.
Behind him, Frank tried to smile. “It’s really very kind
of you,” he said. “But really, one was enough—more than
enough.” His smile came good at last. “Certainly more than
he deserves,” he added, patting Tony’s shoulder.
The guide did not deny it. He leaned forward, put his
face close to Frank’s, and whispered confidentially, “There’s
method in my madness.” And with a smile, almost a giggle,
he was gone.
Frank’s smile continued to serve him. It did really seem
all so clear and reasonable: what better way of keeping a
child quiet than to fill its mouth? What real harm had been
done? Not to smile would have amounted to a betrayal
of the guide’s confidence, Frank told himself ; and with his
smile on his face he set about studying the new room.
“This is the armory,” the guide announced when at last
they were all in it, settled down. He rattled through
dimensions and redecorations. “The greater part of the armor
you see along this wall to my right,” he then went on, “was
taken from the bodies of Spanish soldiers washed ashore
from the Armada.” He straightened his shoulders. “Which
I like to think of,” he added, “as the first of our two great
Battles of Britain.”
Two old ladies murmured something kind, and there was
a subdued crash from the next room.
“What could that be, I wonder?” the guide asked.
With a gracious word of excuse, he crossed to the open
door.
TMot until Frank caught the old American's kind, quizzical
eye two or three seconds later did the thought of Tony
suggest itself to him. Then blood rushed to his face ; trying
not to run, he too went to the door.
The next room was some sort of dining room ; the single
long refectory table that stretched down it was fully set
with cutlery, plate, glasses, tall candles, bowls of wax fruit:
and at the side of it stood Tony, bending to pick something up.
“Leave it alone!” Frank shouted, even before he could
see what it was, and even though he was certain his warning
came too late.
As if he had touched a live wire Tony stood up straight,
tight-lipped, and immediately thrust his hands into his pockets,
out of harm’s way.
At his feet lay a broken red wine glass.
“Oh God,” Frank groaned.
The guide stared, unbelieving.
“I was getting an apple, Daddy,” Tony said. His face
was white ; his voice faltered. He whispered, “This is the
tea room.”
“Stupid!” Frank shouted.
Tony’s wide eyes shut, as if a cold wind had touched
them. But he did not move.
Frank said, “Move!”
Tony heaved himself to the wall, his hands still in his
pockets. Rita appeared at the door. In a more normal voice
Frank said to the guide, “I’m terribly sorry about this, sir.”
The guide did not reply.
“About what?” Rita asked sharply. “What's he done?”
She would argue, Frank knew, where there was no room
for argument. “He’s smashed that glass,” he answered harshly,
and added, to Tony, “Get out before you do any more
damage.”
Reproachfully, he watched his wife and son retreat.
But when they had gone he felt deserted. Slowly,
unwillingly, heavy with foreboding, he faced the table again ;
and his heart gave a jump, for at first he thought the guide
had disappeared. But where Tony had stood, his opponent
now was kneeling. Nothing in the room moved.
Frank gathered his courage, took a step forward, cleared
his throat, and said, “I can’t tell you how sorry I am about
this.”
Dut still he received no reply ; apparently oblivious of all
else, the guide, palely looking down, began sorting through
the fragments.
Like a huge slow spider his white hand walked in the
glass, and around Frank’s chest, as he watched, the net grew
tighter. He did not dare ask whose the glass had been, how
old it was, how valuable —he had no right, he felt, to such
questions. But he thought of the 13,000 long miles they had
come, of ali their happy expectations, all their delights ; he
thought of the people who had seen him off that sunny day,
and his eyes stung.
The guide’s hand fell still, and quickly Frank drew a
breath, a sob, nearly, and blinked his eyes clear again. But in
readiness for nothing, it seemed: like some eastern worshipper
the little fat man sat there on his heels still, quite motionless.
Frank, full of pain, could bear it no longer ; his heart
pumped, and anger took fire in every corner of his mind. For
the guide alone, with his evil sweets, had brought all this about,
the guide alone had led them to this room and this mischief ;
it was intolerably unjust that the guide should not suffer at
least a little for it.
“God Almighty!” he said, in a loud shaking voice. “It’s
only glass, isn’t it!”
The guide let out a long sigh, and in a weary way struggled
to his feet. “I shall have to take your name,” he said slowly,
panting a little, “and the name of your son.”
“With pleasure,” Frank replied angrily.
“For insurance purposes,” the guide finished.
IT had never crossed Frank’s mind that everything in that
great house would be insured. Confirmed in the bitter sense
of his own innocence, he followed the guide back to the
armory and waited with Rita and Tony by the door while the
man announced to the rest of the party that he was forced to
desert them for a few minutes, and begged them not to touch
anything.
Tony’s hands were still in his pockets, and Rita’s face was
set and pale ; as much as a way of ignoring observers as for
any other reason, Frank told her, “It’s all insured, of course.”
Rita closed her eyes. “Thank heavens for that.”
A little irritated, Frank said, “You can rely on people
like these to cover themselves.”
The guide beckoned. Watched by many eyes, they crossed
the room after him and entered the chapel once again.
“How do you think they got where they are?” Frank
asked. He walked down the aisle as if it were any other aisle.
“How did they get that armor? They stripped it off dead
bodies.” He waved an angry arm at the panelled walls
“Property, property, property!”
It was the exact, rational truth, the good, pure truth ; it
freed him utterly. They traversed the corridor again, and


OIL DRILLING
MANAGER
REQUIRED BY
CONTINENTAL DRILLERS PTY. LTD.
A Company owned jointly by
SANTOS LTD. AND OIL DEVELOPMENT N.L.
Oil Drilling or Petroleum Engineer with administrative
experience required to:—
1. Establish an Australian oil drilling organ-
isation to carry out the drilling requirements
of the above Companies and engage in
contract drilling where desirable.
2. Engage the necessary drilling staff and
establish supplies, stores and workshop
facilities.
3. Manage the organisation thus established.
In addition to substantial experience in oil drilling, a
high degree of administrative ability is necessary.
This is a position for a first class man. Salary will be
fully in keeping with his capabilities and the respon-
sibilities of the position.
The equipment to be operated includes a National 50
"Helirig" and a National 50 Standard rig.
Replies should set out a complete summary of experi-
ence, technical education, age, marital status, etc., and
be addressed to:—
The Secretary,
OIL DEVELOPMENT N.L.,
100 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1818
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STKUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. 0. S. PETTERSEN, Manager.
Branches in nil States Agencies in all Country Centres
entered the small living room. Frank paused before the
ambry and briefly examined once more the three hunting
scenes carved into its broad front; indignation filled his veins
again when he thought of the gentry on their horses, and the
serfs, the slaves, running behind. Good carving, evil lives . . .
How much care this wood has had, the thought, and how
little its carver!
He followed Rita and Tony into the Banquet Hall. His
hot, censorious gaze touched the bright ceiling again. Which
of those labors of the months had the owners of this grand
hall performed? Which labors had they performed in anv
month, in any year, but extortion and then waste? Greed and
arrogance and lust hid and festered in every one of their
thousand memorials.
They halted, in silence, by the table in the entrance hall.
The young lady had gone. Frank offered his passport as
identification, and the guide accepted it without a word. He
copied the names out, took the Hampstead address from an
envelope, and when he handed the passport back he said,
in a quiet, tired voice, “You’re from Australia, I see.”
“Yes,” Frank replied, in the most neutral tone at his
command.
“I should have been able to tell from your voice,” the
guide said. “But we have so many different here. I get them
all mixed.”
No one answered him. He folded his sheet of paper,
stuffed it into his coat pocket, and said, “You don’t see this
sort of place out in Australia too often, I shouldn’t imagine.”
“We certainly don’t,” Frank replied quickly, loudly.
That was the end of it. Immediately after that he turned
to the door, and in 15 seconds they had left the place for ever.
■Crank looked up, and lightness and freedom seemed to
descend on him from the sky, even from that unclear
northern sky. But he was anxious to be away, and the after-
noon struck chill through their clothes as they crossed the
gravel parking lot; he remembered with pleasure that the
Hillman had a heater.
The engine started first try. As he let it warm up, Rita
said to Tony, “You might as well take your hands out now,
Tony.”
Frank nodded, rubbing his own cold hands together.
“He’s been punished enough.”
But Tony did not answer.
“Take them out now, Tony,” Rita repeated, and stretched
one arm back over the seat as if to do it for him. Tony
squeezed himself into a corner, out of her reach.
“Tony!” she said.
Frank started to turn ; and at that, all at once, Tony
burst into a half-choked, hysterical cry. “No, Daddy! I can't!”
“There, there, dear,” Rita said soothingly, kneeling up on
the seat. “Don't you worry about it any more.”
“I can’t!” Tony screamed. “It's blood!”
A lmost before Tony could get his breath back Rita had
caught hold of him. She took him under the arms,
swept him all jumbled up into the front seat, and with many
soft words of love began trying to calm him, and get his
hands out of his pockets. The top of the middle finger of
Tony’s left hand, when they saw it at last, was covered with
blood.
“Oh my God,” Rita gasped.
But at least it had stopped bleeding, apparently ; and a
minute later, when she had wet a handkerchief and carefully
dabbed away most of the blood, they saw that after all it was
only a shallow little cut, there was no glass in it.
A minute after that Tony had a band-aid around his finger
and was almost over his tears, sitting where he wanted to sit,
in Frank's lap, with his head tucked under Frank's chin and
his finger held up in front of him so that he could examine
it from every angle. He looked ready for a long stay.
Rita switched the engine off. In the sudden quiet, all
Frank could clearly hear was the full quick pulse in his chest,
the loud battle his heart fought with guilt. He should have
told me. he should have told me, he said ; but not aloud, for
fear of hearing the reply he had already given himself: You
didn’t ask, you didn’t ask. But there was nothing to see, no
reason to think: he just stood up and put his hands in his
pockets. He was your son, and in trouble : that is more than
reason enough.
It was a new fire in his mind, consuming all else, and its
light crept into every depth and distance.
“What did we learn today, Daddy?” Tony asked softly,
squirming under his chin.
'T'here was a terrible pause ; and Rita burst out laughing.
Her half-smothered guffaw filled the little car, overfilled it.
Frank’s eyes stung: not daring to let her see them, he lifted
his head and looked out through the windscreen at the other
cars. His face trembled ; and then, at the thought of himself,
at the sound of her, he smiled ; and coughed, and laughed.
And at that, for no other reason than that his mother and his
father were laughing, Tony laughed too.
“Oh heavens!” Rita gasped, poking Tony in the stomach,
making him laugh more. “Can you be as innocent as you
look? Oh, what a son, what a bushranger!”
“He’s the only one we have,” Frank said, and his eyes
filled again. “Oh, damn my eyes,” he said. He wiped them,
and blew his nose ; and that great noise set. them all off again,
as if they would never stop.


Business, Robbery, Etc.
OVERSEAS RESERVES
Stormy Year Ends Well
A silver lining is now
shining brightly through
the ominous clouds of fiscal
worries. Like a rub of Alad-
din’s magic lamp the £7B
million I.M.F. loan and heavy
receipts of export earnings have
lifted the Reserve Bank’s gold
and balances abroad by £19.7
million to £450.9 million in the
week ended June 21. The rela-
tively low level of import pay-
ments has materially aided this
welcome bit of white magic.
Australia's balance of payments
outlook is the happiest for more
than twelve months.
Total net overseas reserves of
the Australian banking system
rose by £114.6 million to £531.1
million during the five weeks
ending May 31, 1961. This is
a very encouraging expansion,
particularly so in the current
difficult employment situation.
Two favorable economic
conclusions may be tentatively
drawn. Firstly, the Govern-
ment's economists may now
feel it is no longer necessary to
hold down production costs and
consumer prices through re-
stricting domestic demands by
any means at all—including a
certain degree of underemploy-
ment. The healthier overseas
balances position may give the
Government and the Reserve
Bank an easier hand in bring-
ing back full employment
policies by more liberal invest-
ment incentives offered to the
basic and export industries.
Secondly, some of the im-
portant implications of the
I.M.F. loan now seem to be
better understood by the im-
porters, who have all along
feared that the Government
may finally decide to yield to
the strong sectional pressures
and reimpose import restric-
tions.
Some selective import con-
trols are not altogether out of
question, and rightly so. But
I.M.F.’s rules virtually preclude
a borrowing country from
using drastic import restrictions
to improve its internal employ-
ment position. In a somewhat
disguised form, this is intended
to prevent the old and popular
Pre-war practice of “exporting
unemployment.”
These reflections may have
induced importers to discon-
tinue, or at least substantially
reduce, their overseas purchases
for stockpiling purposes. If
this is so, and admittedly there
is as yet little concrete evidence
to support this logical assump-
tion, the trend may help to
reduce the high level of inven-
tories, particularly the stocks of
consumer goods and some raw
and semi-raw materials. Such
a reduction should help manu-
facturers and retailers to seil
some surplus stocks and stimu-
late employment and overall
demand through a chain reac-
tion. If the process is gradual
and reasonably evenly spread
throughout the industries
affected, the fear of an immedi-
ate resurgence of inflationary
pressures is relatively small.
One of the hidden dangers
is that because of the rigorous
credit restrictions imposed last
November some importers may
have relied heavily on extended
credit provided by overseas
suppliers, anxious to safeguard
the volume of their Australian
trade. The question of lags
makes it difficult to draw any
hard and fast conclusions on
the basis of statistics available.
If special credit facilities have
been relied upon by Australian
importers to any appreciable
degree, the I.M.F. loan could
induce overseas suppliers to
curtail them. If there is no
need for our importers to build
up their inventories of profit-
able import goods to beat the
introduction of import restric-
tions then, by the same token,
there is no need for their
foreign suppliers to go out of
the way with extensive credit
terms to maintain the sales to
Australia.
But, even with these some-
what sober thoughts in mind,
the current overseas reserves
outlook is bright. The books
were ruled off last Friday, and
we may have to wait another
few days for the final figures.
On present indications, how'-
ever, our overseas reserves
should be about £3O million
fatter than they were on July
1, 1960.
Even if the I.M.F. loan is
not taken into consideration,
the net decline for 1960-61
should be less than £5O million
—a happy ending to a turbu-
lent year. Still more encourag-
ing is the fact that the £19.7
million leap in the Reserve
Bank’s gold and balances
abroad in the week to June 21
was not caused by any abnor-
mal factors. And overseas
reserves should rise further
this month when the proceeds
of the £11.2 million New York
loan start coming in.
WOOL
Exports Total £304m.
A ustralia’s wool export
T*' earnings gained slightly in
May and the current trend
remains encouraging.
Although demand for wool
has remained fairly steady
during the eleven months to
May 31, 1961, world prices
were lower. Total export
earnings from wool for the
eleven months were £304 mil-
lion, about £5O million lower
than in the same period in
1959-60.
The Commonwealth Statis-
tician’s figures show that total
wool exports during the period
June 30, 1960-May 31, 1961
were valued at £304,283,000,
compared with £355,812,000 a
year ago.
The pattern of demand
varied, with Japan—by far
the biggest customer buy-
ing 382,679,0001 b. valued at
£94,674,000 (up £8,364,000)
and United Kingdom only
237,491,0001 b. valued at
£51,297,000 (a fall of
£19,330,000).
Italian purchases of wool
declined by £10,665,000 to
£25,132,000.' The value of
sales to Benelux dropped from
£18,015,000 to £15,832,000.
Exports to principal Com-
munist buyers mainland
China, the Soviet Union,
Poland and Czechoslovakia —
decreased by £16,717,000. On
the other hand, exports to
Yugoslavia rose by £238,000 to
£3,499,000.
Poland, with £7,115,000
(down £2,990,000) was Aus-
tralia’s tenth largest wool
customer, following the Soviet
Union (£8,215,000) but ahead
of mainland China and Czecho-
slovakia.
France remained a major
customer with £33,023,000
a fall of £4,353,000. Exports
to the United States were
£1,699,000 lower at £9,931,000.
Total exports of sheep and
lamb skins with wool on during
the eleven months’ period de-
clined from £21,089,000 to
£19,320,000.
At the same time Japan’s
sales of wool tops to mainland
China are reported to have
trebled during the last twelve
months. China is emerging as
a major market for wool and
woollen articles.
OIL
Sea Search
iy/|ORE interest than ever before
■*•*■*■ is being shown in the oil
exploration possibilities of Aus-
tralia’s offshore seabeds.
Production of oil from wells
in the shallow waters of lakes
and swamps dates back 50
years—in recent years oil has
flowed from seabed wells miles
offshore in the Gulf of Mexico,
in the Persian Gulf and in tne
South China Sea. Offshore
drilling is one of the most
dramatic, but also one of the
most costly methods of winning
oil. If drilling for oil is under-
taken in deep waters off the
Australian coast, drilling plat-
forms costing between £1
and £2 million will be needed,
according to an estimate made
by the Petroleum Information
Bureau (Australia).
The first official geological
party to go under water in Aus-
tralia recently tested sediment-
ary deposits at depths of 20ft.
to 40ft. in St Vincent Gulf,
South Australia. The area is
held under permit by Geo-
surveys of Australia Ltd. After
examination of the deposits it
was suggested that oil-bearing
strata could lie below the Gulf.
Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd has
made a preliminary aerial mag-
notometric reconnaissance of


CUSTOM
CORPORATION
z
CREDIT
LIMITED
Offers to Long or Short Term Investors
Applications must be made on the Forms enclosed
in the Prospectus, which is now available from
ALL MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGE
Every Branch of
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Each of the Branches of
CUSTOM CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
130 New South Head Road, Darling Point, Sydney. Telephone: FM 586!.
Assetsi in Australia exceed
CCC3.561
its Bass Strait permit area, and
is now considering a full scale
aerial survey which could take
three months to complete.
The entire Northern Terri-
tory coast, almost all the
Queensland coast, and Port
Phillip Bay (Vic.), have been
included in marine gravity
surveys by the Bureau of
Mineral Resources in the last
four years. Future activity in
South Australian waters is ex-
pected in the area between
Kangaroo Island and the Vic-
torian border. A licence for
deep-water drilling in this area
has been issued to Australian
Pacific Co. Pty Ltd. Camelot
Nominees Pty Ltd has agreed
to pay £250,000 for an under-
water survey of 9600 square
miles in the Gulf of Papua.
An offshore seismic survey
along Victoria’s Western Dis-
trict coastline earlier this year
helped Frome-Broken Hill to
choose the site for its fourth
well currently being drilled
between Port Campbell and
Warrnambool.
In Western Australia, Wapet
may explore offshore in an
effort to solve the riddle of oil
found in 1953 at Exmouth
Gulf where, after the initial
flow of oil, many land-based
attempts to find the reservoir
failed.
The Petroleum Information
Bureau says that it “seems in-
evitable that some oil explora-
tion companies in Australia
will seek oil under the sea but
although 1000 offshore wells
were drilled overseas last year
it may be several years yet
before Australians will see
under-water drilling in pro-
gress.”
EXPORTS
Trading with Communists
By R. G. Boyd
“'T'rade with Communist
Countries,” by Alec Nove
and Desmond Donnelly, pub-
lished by the Institute of Econo-
mic Affairs in London is a
concise handbook for business-
men engaged in trade with the
Communist bloc. It is written
mainly for readers in the
United Kingdom, but much of
it will be of interest to Aus-
tralian exporters. There is a
useful description of the pro-
cedures of trade with the Com-
munist countries, with lists of
their trading organisations, and
there is an analysis of the atti-
tudes of those countries to-
wards commerce with the
West.
The extremely limited pros-
pects for encouraging favor-
able changes in those attitudes
are noted, but the authors en-
deavor to persuade Western
traders to press on with the
difficult business of finding out-
lets for their products in the
U.S.S.R., China and Eastern
Europe. Tables illustrate the
relatively small foreign trade
of the U.S.S.R. and the other
Communist countries.
The Institute of Economic
Affairs, which sponsored this
publication, is a new British
organisation ‘‘independent of
any political party or group”
which aims at promoting wider
appreciation of basic economic
problems. Alec Nove is Reader
in Russian Social and Econo-
mic Studies at the University
of London and Desmond Don-
nelly is a Labour Member of
the House of Commons. Nove's
chapters are well written and
contain useful footnotes, but
Donnelly’s contain several
over-simplifications and he does
not quote any sources.
The foreword is by Mr J. B.
Scott, Overseas Sales Director
of Crompton Parkinson Ltd,
who is confident that trade rs
the “surest” means of fosterins
understanding of the West in
the Communist countries. Nove
is rather cautious about this,
but after discussing briefly some
arguments against building up
trade with the Communist
countries he declares his sup-
port for the promotion of such
commerce, arguing that the
expansion of trade will tend to
make the Communist states
dependent on the West and will
enlarge points of contact with
them. Nove acknowledges
that there is no assurance that
greater material prosperity will
make Communism less hostile
but he believes that trade pro-
motion by the West will make
the outside world seem less
threatening to Soviet citizens,
and that this will work to-
wards a reduction of revolu-
tionary zeal among the Soviet
leaders.
Donnelly also looks for some
liberalisation within the
U.S.S.R. and the other Com-
munist countries as a result of
their increased economic con-
tacts with the West, but his
recommendations for more
active Western trade promotion
with the Communist bloc are
confused by declarations about
the importance of vigorous
Western competition against
the U.S.S.R.’s economic diplo-
macy towards the under-
developed countries. He gives


The New
Approach to
INVESTMENT
1
Of great significance to those with Estates,
including Investment holdings, is the plan-
ning of a balanced investment portfolio, and
possibly the formation of a Family Trust.
Such a plan may be devised to minimise
Death Duties, yet provide adequate
income and conserve Estate assets
during one’s lifetime and after death.
Union Trustee with a group of experts—
skilled in the modern conception of
Investment —can act as your financial
counsellor, relieving you of investment
worries, and helping you in many ways
to plan for future financial security.
May we discuss these matters with you—
without obligation—and in complete
confidence?
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St.. Melbourne. C.l
20 O’Connell St.. Sydney
398-402 Queen St.. Brisbane
Also at Newcastle, Albury, Toowoomba,
Rockhampton, Townsville and Charleville.
UTiS4a s2N
the impression that the import-
ance of competing against the
U.S.S.R.’s attempts to secure
the allegiance of the under-
developed countries by trade
and aid is a further reason for
building up commerce with the
Communist countries. This
however, is clearly not the case,
and it can be argued that, in-
stead of seeking to promote
trade with the Communist
countries, the West would do
better to concentrate on build-
ing up its economic co-opera-
tion with the under-developed
regions, so as to give adequate
assistance to their economic
growth.
There is of course scope to
pursue the first objective in a
large measure without preju-
dice to the second, but the
case for giving priority to the
second is very strong.
The opportunities for the
West to contain the Com-
munist system through build-
ing up and achieving some in-
tegration with the economies
of the under-developed coun-
tries should attract far more
attention than the prospects for
Western trade with the Com-
munist bloc. In the short term,
the main effects of such trade
are simply to redress the de-
ficiencies of the Soviet bloc’s
economy—especially in the pro-
duction of consumer goods.
With this perspective in mind
one must hope that commercial
contacts with the West will
eventually promote better un-
derstanding in the bloc, but one
should be aware of the limited
diplomatic abilities of aggres-
sive salesmen in an environ-
ment where the social responsi-
bilities of industry and com-
merce are, however pharisaic-
ally, greatly emphasised.
MIGRANTS
Buying Back Jobless
A number of jobless German
migrants are busy filling in
forms, which have been sent
to them by an employment
agency in Frankfurt, West
Germany.
If they have the right quali-
fications the agency will find
them employment with West
German firms, which will pay
their fares from Australia to
Germany.
The Frankfurt employment
agency is primarily engaged in
recruiting workers for the
labor-hungry German industry
and agriculture outside Ger-
many, and is doing a brisk
business.
OFFICIAL SURVEY
Labor Market in May
'The Department of Labor’s
■*- monthly survey of employ-
ment in some 2700 larger
private factories, employing
approximately 540,000 persons,
shows a decrease of 7700
(4032 males and 3668 females)
or 1.4 p.c. during May, 1961.
Excluding the food group of
factories, which was subject to
seasonal movements, employ-
ment in the factories surveyed
fell by 8496 or 1.8 p.c. (5385
males and 3111 females).
Reductions were reported in
a wide range of industries,
mainly in New South Wales
and Victoria. The largest de-
clines occurred in textile and
knitted goods, basic metal
working and other metal manu-
facturing, clothing and foot-
wear and building materials
supply. The last group includes
Producers of bricks and tiles ;
lime, plaster, cement and their
products ; paints ; and metal
building fittings ; and sawmills
and other woodworking estab-
lishments.
In the food group of factories
employment expanded season-
ally in meatworks in Queens-
land and more than offset re-
ductions in other food and
drink processing factories in
most States.
Aggregate employment on
major public works appears to
have been stable during May,
with increases in Queensland
offsetting reductions in New
South Wales and the Australian
Capital Territory.
An average of 6952 new
vacancies (4469 for males and
2483 for females) was notified
to the Commonwealth Employ-
ment Service during May. The
average weekly number of
placements was 5683 (3743
males and 1940 females).
At June 2, 1961, 14,496
vacancies (9238 for males and
5258 for females) were regis-
tered with the Commonwealth
Employment Service, a decrease
over the five weeks period of
2409 for males and 1111 for
females.
The main class of vacancies
registered for males at June 2,
was for tradesmen and appren-
tices in the metal and electrical
trades. Most of the vacancies
for females were for service
workers and nurses.
The number of persons who
claimed that they were not
employed and who were re-
corded as unplaced at June 2,
1961, totalled 102,554 (71,952
males and 30,602 females). This
was an increase of 11,275 males
and 1912 females since the end
of April. Most of the men
registered were seeking semi-
skilled and unskilled work, and
most of the women were
registered for factory employ-
ment particularly in clothing,
textile and footwear trades, and
for domestic and other service
work.


/
Invest with confidence
in a company with a sound growth
record and secure asset backing
. . . ideal for either
long or short term investment.
FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
. . . in multiples oj £lOO, payable in jull
Upon application . . . unconditionally guaranteed by
Retailers Acceptance Ltd. . . . assets exceed £3,400,000
•.. registers Sydney and Brisbane
91|7 per-annum
2/0 6-10 years
Q 0/ per annum
7O 4-5 years
0107 per annum
®2/0 2-3 years
80/ per annum
78 12 ruths. fixed
710/ per annum
* 2/8
9 mihs. notic©
707 per annum
• /0 6 mths. notic©
L 0/ . per annum
” /0 3 mths. notice
interest payable
quarterly
foee oj exchange
RETAILERS
ACCEPTANCE
(QLD.)
LTD.
280 PITT ST., SYDNEY. PHONE MA2373
SO9 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE. PHONE 31 1951
Underwriting Brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL . . .
LIONEL A. McFADYEN & CO. . .
LANCE JONES & CO.
20 O'Connell St., Sydney, &
340 Queen St., Brisbane.
20 O’Connell St., Sydney, &
Musgrave St., Port Moresby.
108 Creek St., Brisbane, &
108 Victoria Street, Mackay.
326
Banker for the issue: BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES
Trustee for the Debenture Stockholders:
BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES NOMINEES PTY. LTD.
Prospectus and Applications:
A copy of the Prospectus has been lodged with the Registrar of
Companies, Brisbane. Applications accepted only on the application
form attached to the Prospectus, which may be obtained from
• any member of a recognised Stock Exchange • Retailers
Acceptance (Q!d.) Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane • all branches
Bank of New South Wales in N.S.W., tS’ld., and New Guinea
« the offices of the underwriting brokers.
WHEAT
Queensland’s Institute
Queensland’s Wheat Re-
search Institute at Too-
woomba has been brought a
step closer by the acceptance
of a tender for the construc-
tion of the first stage of the
building.
The State Minister for Agri-
culture and Forestry said that
the tender of Messrs J. M.
Kelly Pty Ltd had been
accepted.
The first stage of the Institute
will include a plant laboratory,
a plant pathology section and
cereal physical laboratories.
The State Government was
making available on loan some
£40,000 towards the cost of
construction. In the main the
construction will be financed
by the wheat industry itself.
At least four research
workers from the Department
of Agriculture and Stock are
available to begin work at the
Institute as soon as the build-
ing is ready.
The broad aim of the Wheat
Research Institute is to conduct
research directed at improving
wheat quality and yields in
Queensland. First steps to-
wards this goal will be investi-
gations into soil fertility and
some wheat diseases. Investi-
gations will be made on crop
rotations with special emphasis
on the value of a pasture in the
rotation. Elsewhere in the
world, permanent agriculture is
based on a rotation with pas-
ture. For this reason, the
principles of crop rotation will
be studied.
Another major problem that
is concerning Queensland
wheatgrowers is the occurrence
of root rots in wheat. This
problem will be tackled by
plant pathologists at the Insti-
tute. They will make detailed
studies on crown and root rots
of wheat, examining the range
of host plants, the particular
habits of the fungi, and the
nature of varietal resistance to
these diseases. This is the
commencement of a bigger
study on soil-borne diseases of
wheat.
RESERVE BANK
New Release
The Governor of the Reserve
Bank, Dr H. C. Coombs,
has announced a reduction in
the Statutory Reserve Deposit
ratio for the major trading
banks by a further 1 p.c. to
13.5 p.c.
Dr Coombs said that, in
recent months, the banks “have
been encouraged to increase
their new lending in selected
fields —in particular for housing
and for primary production.
The reduction of inflationary
pressures in the economy has
now enabled the Reserve Bank
to restore to trading banks
greater discretion in the alloca-
tion of loans/"
Banks have been asked to
ensure that appropriate bank
finance should continue to be
available for housing and for
export production in rural,
mining and manufacturing in-
dustries. “Within the limits of
a moderate increase in their
new lending they may grant
additional accommodation on
the basis of normal banking
criteria, subject to continued
observance of the following
broad principles- -existing re-
straints should continue to be
exercised in providing credit to
finance imports and for hire
purchase and instalment selling)
and finance should not be pro-
vided directly or indirectly for
speculative activities."’


1
m
7
i\
V/
l\
A good way to .
;ef^
£
S D
I lITIfR
INCOME
TAX
REFUND
™4!CllßirC
Your money will grow in the
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK
LIMITED
wholly owned subsidiary of
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
Speculator's Diary
Monday, July 3
That preliminary announce-
ment by C.S.R. of a 9 p.c.
fall in profit was as doleful as
the sound of a Masonite wobble
board and the shares very
properly fell £lO at once, it
was when they made a mild
recovery to just over £BO early
in the week that I thought of
all the bulls who wouldn’t want
to risk burning their fingers
again if the full accounts sang
as doleful a song. So I sold
short five shares at £BO ss.
This was justified, for a while
at least, as the shares fell to
£7B before the release today oi
the annual report.
The full accounts show huge
financial strength, but there is
nothing bullish in them. And
besides, an earning rate of 12
per cent, hardly justifies a yield
of 2.3 per cent, and doesn't
leave much room for the capital
benefits investors seemed to
be expecting. On the other
The week’s transactions
were:
FOUGHT
400 Beseer (Q.) at 8/6 £174
300 Pyrox rights at 9d. £l2
SOLD
200 Concrete contribs
at 11/10 .. .. £ll6
* 5 C.S.R. at £BO/5/-. . £396
* Sold short.
I have left myself £27 in debt
to my broker with £75 still due
to Pyrox, and 1 now hold :
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Total Per rent
Shares Company Cost Share Priee
400 Antill It. £251 12/3 13/
100 Pick-Me-Up 414 81/0 £5/7/0
500 Merica 165 6/4 6/6
500 Stocks &
Holdings def. 212 S/.'! S/P
200 Tom Piper 235 23/- 26/3
200 Hornibrook 234 23/- 23/-
200 l’arnnrj
Henty 174 17/- 15/0
200 Marrickviile 217 21/3 25/101
132 Mariey Tile 15S 24/-
400 David Jones
notes 207 10/- 10.6
400 X 1! Love
contribs. 04 4/8 5 4
500 X’ewcast le Ten
Pin Bowling 125 5/~ 5/7
300 Moran X
Cato 209 19/0 10/0
400 Phillip- Oil 100 :>/-
100 James Ilardie 301 77/- 70/
300 McDonald 207 13/6 15/3
200 Southern TV 205 20/- 23/
400 Ampol rights 42 2/- 2/51
400 Besser <Q.) 174 8/6 8/6
300 Pyrox rights 12 9d lid
hand, who can tell what a small
share issue (if it is announced
at the annual meeting) and
share split (thoroughly useless)
could do to the market? But
that won't concern me.
The C.S.R sale did not, of
course, relieve my cash prob-
lem. But the market solved
the difficulty by pushing Con-
crete up a shilling. The rise
looked like one of those in-
spired affairs before the com-
pany makes another takeover,
so, despite the group’s big
prospects, I sold my 200 2s. 6d.
paid contributing shares for
11s. lOd. —profit £2O.
Running through the take-
over prospects I came upon the
Besser Vibrapac company in
Queensland. With its small
£200,000 capital it is definitely
takeover bait. The company
was confident enough to raise
its interim dividend to a 10
per cent, rate in March when
the building slump in Queens-
land was in full swing. I
bought 400 of the new shares at
Bs. 6d.
While I was inquiring about
Besser, my broker mentioned
Pyrox. The company’s good
current trading and expansion
projects make prospects attrac-
tive. I bought 300 Pyrox rights
at 9d, and by delaying payment
of application money until it
is due on July 12, I only had
to put up £l2.


INVEST IN
ELECTRICITY!
PROFIT FROM
QUEENSLAND’S POWER
EXPANSION PROGRAMME!
THE STATE ELECTRICITY
COMMISSION OF QUEENSLAND
£5.15.0% LOAN
GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED
Apply now through: Commonwealth Trading
Bank A.N.Z. Bank Commercial Banking
Company Commercial Bank of Australia
E.S. & A. Bank Bank of N.S.W. National
Bank of A’asia; any Stockbroker; any Regional
Electricity Board Office; or direct to the State
Electricity Commission of Q’ld., 447 Gregory
Terrace, Brisbane. Phone 5 2701,
£5.15.0 PER CENT IS AUSTRALIA’S HIGHEST GOVERN-
MENT GUARANTEED INTEREST RATE.
SHORT, MEDIUM, OR LONG TERM —6, 10 OR 20 YEARS.
INTEREST IS PAID HALF-YEARLY, FREE OF EXCHANGE.
YOU MAY DEPOSIT 10 PER CENT NOW AND PAY THE
BALANCE BY 3 IST OCTOBER NEXT.
SECURITIES WILL BE LISTED ON THE STOCK EXCHANGE
AND ARE NEGOTIABLE.
THE LOAN IS AN AUTHORISED TRUSTEE INVESTMENT.
CONVERT TO THE NEW, HIGHER INTEREST RATE !
If you hold S.E.C. securities which mature on Ist August or
Ist November 1961, here is your opportunity to convert to £5.15.0
per cent. The following are the securities:
LOAN NO. 12 ISSUED AUGUST 1956 FOR 5 YEARS AT £5.7.6 PER CENT.
LOAN NO. 7 ISSUED NOVEMBER 1953 FOR 8 YEARS AT £4.15.0 PER CENT.
LOAN NO. 13 ISSUED NOVEMBER 1956 FOR 5 YEARS AT £5.5.0 PER CENT.
Underwritten by
Charles A. Ord & Minnett
SEC26/9


JOHN N. ROBERTSON
member of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHAKE KKOKER.
Temple Court.
422 Collins Street, Melbourne C.l.
Telephones: 67 4804, 67 2465
Telegrams & Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER.
N. \V. C. UKAI'EK
(Members o) Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO"
Phone: 312761 P.O. Box
(4 Lines) No. 1887VV
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
JR. H. ALLEN, M. R. L. DOWLING
P. R. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS, N. R.
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner)
Dellin House, 16 O’Connell St.. Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building, 150 Queen St..
Melbourne. 67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables; “Rosdale,” Sydney
Melbourne, or Wollongong.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Swan Brewery Co, Ltd
Captain Stirling discovered the Swan
River in 1827. There, in the shadow
of what is now Kings Park, at the foot
of Mount Eliza, he came across a spring
where he replenished stocks of precious
fresh water. If he could revisit the spot
today he might be tempted, rather than
fill the ship’s barrels with water, to tap
the flow of amber fluid from the close-at-
hand Swan Brewery. But, whatever his
fancy, he would certainly envy scrip-
holders their rich brew bubbling from
the company’s share register.
The Australian brewing industry, by
the middle of the nineteenth century,
comprised many small brewers scattered
throughout the various colonies. The
present century has witnessed a process
of aggrandisement, and the Swan
Brewery Co. Ltd, which directed from
Melbourne, kicked off in Perth (W.A.)
in 1887, has today almost a monopoly
in the Golden West. Its activities extend
to all parts of the State, it has swallowed
up one competitor after another
(amongst them the Lion, Castlemaine
and Emu breweries and the Kalgoorlie
Brewery and Ice Co.), its volume and
scope of trade has been built up by the
acquisition of many hotel properties, it
enjoys a considerable export market, and
its beer is now brewed in Darwin —the
scene of fierce competition with present
rival and one-time associate Carlton and
United Breweries Ltd. Its province even
stretches across the lonely Nullarbor
Plain: evidence the “empties” scattered
along the tracks of the Transcontinental
Railway.
Brewers, including the Swan Brewery,
dispense much creature comfort even
if, on occasion, the odd hangover.
Last term, during the 12 months to
March 28, 1961, the volume of output
from the group’s breweries in Perth,
Kalgoorlie and Darwin increased signifi-
cantly. The change in licensed hours in
W.A., effected January, 1960 —10 o’clock
closing is in to stay, with no meal break
between 6 p.m. and 7 p.m. —has con-
tributed to “a more pleasant and gracious
method of living” and sales have in-
creased. If tipplers were satisfied, so,
too, were shareholders. Both tankards
and div. cheques were reasonably full,
and though most pubs in the West are
tied, collar was excessive neither on the
beer drawn nor the profits left after
distribution, or so it would seem at first
glance:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends—-——,
Tear. Pref. To Re- Re-
Mar. Profit.* 6 p.c. Ord. serves., serves.
31, £ £ p.c. £ £ £
1950.. 339.294 3000 10 =342,320 3,150,058
Unexplained addition, £110,726 .. 3,260,784
Profit sale assets, £4756 .. .. 3,265,540
1957.. 326.669 3000 10 = 342.321 3,246,883
Unexplained addition, £14,864 .. 3,261,752
Profit sale assets, £9343 .. .. 3,271,095
1958.-388,411 3000 10 = 342,321 43,090 3,314,185
Unexplained addition, £150,683 .. 3,464,868
Profit sale assets, £5415 .. .. 3,470,283
Tax overprovided, £5116 .. .. 3,475,399
1959.. 348.784 3000 10 = 342.321 3,463 3,478,862
Unexplained addition, £267,413 .. 3,746,275
Loss sale-assets, £10,150 .. .. 3,736,125
1960.. 521 3000 10 = 342,321 53,200 3,789.325
Unexplained addition, £56,000 . . 3,845,325
Profit sale assets, £29,858 . . . . 3,875,183
Share premiums, £62,143 . . . . 3,937,326
1961.. 870 3000 124 .= 433,258 52,612 3,989,938
* After eliminating outside interests.
However the tax provision as set aside
last term at £585,316 (up £174,119) is
indicative of a net profit of £878,000
while the net showing disclosed in the
accounts is, by comparison, only
£488,870 (up £90,349). It would seem
that the co. is doing much better than
directors care to admit, at least on first
appraisal, although on the other hand
the tax provision could be in excess of
the co.'s statutory liability. Be this as
it may profits are clearly understated ;
ploughback is certain to be greater than
that shown —earning rate on a tax basis
is 25.3 p.c.
Conjecture aside, the latest result, a
record (up 22.7 p.c.) and reckoned after
tax as stated and depreciation £413,278
(down £37,147 and including £59,987 set
aside for fluctuations in raw materials/
stock values), works out a not unsatis-
factory 14 p.c. on ord. capital, compared
with 11.6 p.c., 10.1 p.c., 11.3 p.c.. 9.4 p.c.
and 9.8 p.c. back to 1956. Of this, all
but £52,612, which went into visible
reserves, was absorbed in divs. Income
from investments tallied £25,269 (up
£18,139). The co. set aside £60,000 to
special provision for repairs to plant and
freehold hotels.
Reserves rose by £200,614, the increase
including £56,000 for which no ex-
planation whatsoever is tendered, profit
from sale of redundant hotels, £29,858
(the co. has continued rationalising its
hotel network) and share premiums,
£62,143 during the year the Swan
Brewery purchased the Stuart Arms
Hotel, Alice Springs, in exchange for
shares. The div. rate was upped from
10 to 12| p.c.
Westralians have established themselves
as a race of elbow-benders, a legend
grown in stature since the days when
Paddy Hannan pushed his wheelbarrow
from the coast to Kalgoorlie, opening up
the Golden Mile to hordes of thirsty
diggers from all corners of the continent.
The Swan Brewery has done them well—
the diggers and those that came after them
-—and shareholders have had a wonderful
party of it. Mine Host is even now breast-
ing the bar, a free round coming up
shortly—books closed May 11 last to de-
termine rights to an on-the-house one-
for-seven bonus issue; revaluation
(£750,305) of shares in the Emu Brewery
to provide the necessary wherewithal.
Directors have indicated maintenance of
the p.c. div. on the post bonus
enlarged capital.
Looking back on other shouts, to
earlier sessions and previous handouts,
the div. rate ranged from 24 to 32 p.c.
for nearly 20 years up until 1911. Then,
after a £101,450 gift issue, it dropped
to 16 p.c., with 4 p.c. boosters added
during the fattest periods until 1932 when
14 p.c. was paid. In the next seven years
distributions averaged 22 p.c., and in the
11 years after that 24.2 p.c., sweetened
again with a further £170,156 bonus
issue in 1941.
In 1951 those on the ord. register were
doubly rewarded, firstly with a cash issue,
one-for-ten, of 311,320 5s. shares at a
premium of 20s. each, and then with a
two-for-one gift scrip issue, which took
the sting out of the share premium and
was made mainly from an assets revalua-
tion reserve. Although the div. dropped
from 25 p.c. in 1951 to 7.5 p.c. in 1952,
the lower rate was equal to 22.5 p.c. on
capital as it stood immediately before the
big gift issue just mentioned.
Another 3,434,417 5s. ords. went out


COMPANY MEETING
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO. LTD.
ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS
FRIDAY, 23rd JUNE, 1961 HELD IN MELBOURNE
CHAIRMAN'S ADDRESS
Speaking at the Meeting, Mr. C. Y. SYME said:
The most significant feature iir
our Balance Sheet is the amount
of £16.8 million shown as owing
by debtors.
This figure has risen by about
£1.7 million as compared with 31st
March, 1960, and by about £2.7
million as compared with 31st
March, 1959.
I will revert to this matter later
in this address.
In order to provide the increased
amount lent to our clients, it has
been necessary to arrange extended
overdraft limits with our Bankers
and for a longer period than is our
usual practice. I am pleased to
report that we have received their
full and ready co-operation. In
addition we have obtained a con-
siderable amount in short-term de-
posits which, at the balance date,
amounted to £l.B million.
As a direct result of the ad-
verse seasonal conditions of 1959,
clients’ balances left at credit with
the Company have diminished.
Merchandise stocks are up slightly,
reflecting the substantially in-
creased cost of wool packs and a
slowing down in the normal out-
flow of other goods stocked by the
Company'.
The balance of the cost of build-
ing the wool store at Goulburn is
mainly responsible for the increase
shown in Business and Station
Properties.
Profit and Loss Account
Although substantial in quantity
the 551.000 bales of wool sold for
the year represent a decline of
82.000 when compared with the un-
usually high total for 1960. but
this did not reflect any decrease
in the Company’s proportion of
receipts into all Brokers’ Stores,
which was maintained. This re-
duction in quantity and the re-
duced prices caused a substantial
decrease in earnings from Wool.
The carry forward into the current
year is 10.600 bales greater than
that of the previous period.
At 6.770.000 the number of sheep
handled for the year is about 9
p.c. lower than for the previous
period, although the average price
per head was 30 per cent, higher.
Cattle numbers were some 16 per
cent, lower —mainly in Queensland
and South Australia—but the aver-
age price per head was 11 per cent,
higher.
Profits from the Company's
Stations were much less than those
of last year, being affected by
lower wool prices and in some
cases by' adverse seasonal condi-
tions.
Expenses of running the business
increased because the basic wage
and marginal increases granted by
the Arbitration Commission in
1959 affected the Accounts for the
whole 12 months. The increase in
Debtor balances as referred to
previously required heavier bor-
rowing by the Company which
resulted in a substantial increase
in interest paid, but this was
covered by an increase in interest
received. Rates of interest both
on borrowings and on lendings
have been somewhat increased.
Rates of income tax were again
increased in the last Budget and
are now 8/- in the £ apart from
the first £5OOO of taxable income
on which the charge is 7/- in the
£. This increase meant that last
year’s income tax was under-pro-
vided by £36.424, which has been
charged against the balance of
profit brought forward.
A further amount of £200,000 was
set aside towards meeting the
cost of supplementary pensions
for officers when they retire. As
stated in a note on the Balance
Sheet, there is a still further
liability of about £200,000 to meet
the total deficiency estimated by
the Actuary.
It was mentioned last year that
the trading activities of Fenwick
& Co. Ltd. had been brought under
the direct control of Brisbane
Office and that the Company would
be wound up. That Comany had
a loss for the year because of
expenditure required on its main
building in Brisbane and the liqui-
dation will be delayed until this
work is completed.
Two small but significant steps
in the development of our interests
were the establishment of offices
in Mt. Isa in Queensland and Port
Hedland in Western Australia.
Wool Market
Compared with the previous one
the wool selling season has been
less satisfactory. The principal
reason is lower prices, but the
smaller quantity available will
also have a marked effect in re-
ducing the total proceeds for the
season. Since costs have continued
to rise the reduction in income is
very serious for primary producers
and on a national scale it is having
a most adverse effect on overseas
funds.
It is expected that receipts of
wool into Brokers’ Stores will be
about 4,670,000 bales, and this
corresponds to the total of 4.925.000
bales for the previous season.
Total sheep numbers remained
high, but dry conditions in some
areas during the growing period
resulted in a lighter cutting clip
and some deterioration in standard.
The average price for greasy
w o o 1 for the 11 months of the
season to the end of May was
52.15 d. per lb. compared with
57.78 d for 1959/1960. Total pro-
ceeds are expected to be
£312.000.000. representing a de-
crease of £47.000,000, or some 13
p.c. less than for the previous
season.
Values at sales held when the
main selling season opened at the
end of August were over 10 p.c.
below those ruling at the end of
the 1959/1960 season and continued
a downward trend until February.
From then on prices improved
until values ruling now correspond
approximately to those of 12
months ago. Whilst welcome, this
improvement is too small and too
late to regain the ground already
lost.
Despite the disappointing range
of values that prevailed for the
greater part of the season, wool
has been acquired freely, and it is
expected that there will be little
carryover into the new season. A
surprising feature of the present
season has been the narrow margin
between the prices of merino wools
as compared with coarser types;
in fact, there is a close alignment
of values for all fleece wools,
irrespective of style.
For rlie second season in suc-
cession Japan has been the leading-
purchaser of Australian wool, and
is likely to take more than in the
previous period. Tier consistent
purchases from month to month
have been the most important fea-
ture of the market. Wool con-
sumption in that country continues
to expand, and it should be noted
that the great bulk of Japan's
purchases are being utilised in-
ternally. Although she has ac-
quired a smaller volume, Great
Britain is the second largest pur-
chaser and has an important influ-
ence on the market. Western
European countries have play T ed a
useful though smaller role and, as
a group. Eastern European coun-
tries have purchased less. Perhaps
because of famine conditions being-
experienced in that country, Main-
land China has taken less greasy
wool. This is true also of scoured
and carbonised wools and tops.
Australian mills have taken a less
active part in the market this
season. The removal of import
controls in February, 1960, and
the credit controls introduced
during the season, have affected
their sales of finished goods. Local
processors have been less active
because of the reduction in demand
from Mainland China previously
mentioned.
The Season
Victoria, Western Australia and
the higher rainfall areas of South
Australia experienced a very good
season and present conditions give
reason for optimism for the com-
ing year. In the pastoral areas of
South Australia, however, condi-
tions were dry and whilst useful
rains in April brought relief, fol-
low-on falls are necessary to
assure the position.
In New South Wales, after a
fairly dry Winter, conditions in
the Central West, the South and
most of the Riverina, improved,
and these areas enjoyed a really
good Spring and early Summer
However, conditions deteriorated
towards the end of the Summer.
General rain since then has given
a fair to good start to the season
in these districts. In the North
the coastal regions were experi-
encing their worst drought for
many years until December rain
relieved the position, whilst other
Northern and North Western areas
remained dry until late in the
Summer. Conditions in these areas
now vary somewhat, but the over-
all position can be considered
reasonably good The Western
Division was, on the whole, dry
throughout last Summer, although
stock remained in good order.
General rain in late April should
ensure ample feed until the Spring
in most of the Western districts,
but other parts of the West need
further rain.
Queensland experienced a hard
Winter. Patchy relief was received
in the North West and Central
areas during the Spring, but no
definite break occurred until late
December/early January when
heavy falls were registered in the
Northern and Central areas and
also on the coastal strip; only
patchy storms occurred in the
Southern districts. Follow-up falls
have been light and prospects for
the Winter are only fair.
The cattle country in the far
north of South Australia and in
Central Australia had another dry
year until December and January
when some isolated storms pro-
duced temporary relief. During
mid-April the bulk of the area
received from one to two inches
of rain but, owing to this being
out of season, the growth of feed
was disappointing.
Company’s Properties
Very dry to drought conditions
prevailed during the past year or
two on our New South Wales pro-
perties, and although some rain
lias since been received, more is
needed to ensure adequate feed for
the Winter months. On our north-
central Queensland property
drought conditions were experi-
enced for six months until Sum
mer rains, although of short dura-
tion. produced a good body of
feed. Elsewhere our properties
had a normal season and the pre-
sent position is satisfactory.
The coming wool clip is expected
to be well grown but light in con-
dition.
General
Most Australians have come to
realise that the price and volume
of wool exports are matters which
greatly concern the whole com-
munity. .Much attention is now
being given to the steps which
might lie taken to improve the de-
mand for wool. Improved methods
of promotion are being earnestly
studied by the Australian Wool
Bureau which is being provided
with some additional funds for this
purpose. The objective of the
Bureau deserves the most vigorous
support from all of us.
Attention is also being directed
to the complex problem of Wool
Marketing. The Commonwealth
Government has appointed a very-
well qualified Committee to en-
quire into this matter. Hearings
have been held in Australia, and
in May the Committee proceeded
overseas to pursue its enquiries
in Europe.
It is the announced policy of the
Commonwealth Government that
export industries should not lie
hampered by credit restrictions,
but the practical application of
this policy to wool production is
a matter of the greatest difficulty.
During 1960 heavy additional ad
vances were made available by the
Trading Banks and the Pastoral
Finance Companies to primary
producers. During the first half
of that year advances by Trading
Banks increased by £14.1 million
and by Pastoral Companies by
£5.7 million. However, during the
second half of the year the Trad-
ing Bank advances decreased by
£8.5 million as compared with 30th
June. 1900, whereas in the same
period Pastoral Company advances
increased by a further £15.2 mil-
lion. For the year as a whole
Trading Bank advances increased
by £5.6 million and Pastoral Com-
pany advances by £20.9 million.
This Company has provided its
share of the increased advances
made by the Pastoral Finance
Companies, but it has not been at
all easy' to do so, and we have
been compelled to reject many
legitimate requests for financial
assistance to clients.
As mentioned earlier, we have
received ready co-operation from
our Bankers and in many cases we
have been able to arrange for our
clients to be assisted by the Com-
monwealth Development Bank and
{Continued on next page)


HMHifMG
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
SHAREHOLDERS 1 FUNDS, £891,419.
TANGIBLE ASSETS, £3,134,264.
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
AND OVER
APPLICATIONS must be made
on the form enclosed with the
prospectus, which is obtainable
from
Members of the Stock Exchange
ANY BRANCH OF A.N.Z. BANK
The Registered Office of the Com-
pany, William & Crown Sts.,
Sydney. Telephone FA 0322.
Financing world-
famous products
distributed by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies.
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
LISTER
Engines
GROUP SALES
IN 1960
£14,757,281
MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 1/4/61, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 8/7
HD82.8
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX (Vice-Chairman),
R. J. VICARS, A. MURRAY JONES, HUGH DIXSON,
D. A. T. DICKINS, K. B. MYERS, A. E. STEPHEN
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of Every Description
J. O. LEWIS, General Manager.
jn 1954, one-for-three, at a
premium of Is., the div. rate
rising from 8.3 p.c., as set in
1952, to 9.16 p.c. It was
stepped up to 10 p.c. in the
following year to remain steady
from then on until last term.
The Swan Brewery has ad-
vanced its fortunes commen-
surate with the thirst of the
Westralian population and
shareholders have indeed had a
royal time. Is it too much to
expect further benefits in the
near future, especially now
pending new co. legislation,
added information required
under statute, and probabie
revelation of inner strengths?
Mine Host could excel himself.
Turning again to latest
accounts, balance-sheet move-
ments indicate a very strong
financial structure back of the
Swan Brewery.
The book value of freeholds,
leaseholds and plant, etc., as a
composite, dropped £137,431 to
£7,101,559. They are in at
cost or valuation, less provi-
sions for depreciation and
amortisation and should be
reckoned as very conservatively
stated. The total amount set
aside as depreciation provision
is no longer shown, its exclu-
sion adding one more mystery
to the already vague records.
Two major rebuilding projects
are in hand and others are
planned:
Paid capital— 1960. 1961.
Pref £50,000 £50,000
Ord 3,423,208 ' 3,466,065
Reserves . . 3,789,325 3,989,939
Depreciation res.
Prov. repairs . . 60,06-0
Outside interests 20.333 21,713
Overdraft . . 455,146
Creditors, etc. .. 111,780 181,181
Staff fund .. 101,081 106,810
Tax provision .. 441,224 594,338
Final divs. .. 172,660 261,455
Suspense . . 760
£8,504,757 £8,732,261
Freeholds, lease-
holds, etc. .. 5,494,156 5,261,396
Plant, etc. . . 1,744,834 1,840,163
Investments . . 19,925 19,925
Loans .. .. 142,467 22U270
Stocks .. .. 511,022 416,615
Debtors . . . . 630,580 535,223
Cash, bonds, de-
posits, etc. . . 21,773 437,669
£8,564,757 £8,732,261
Because quick turnover is
essential in the beer business,
general concepts of working
capital do not apply. Neverthe-
less, it is interesting to note the
big increases in liquidity with
bank accommodation out and
cash, bonds, short-term deposits
(a new item aggregating
£340,000), etc., up £415,896 at
£437,669. During the year two
of the co.'s subsidiaries were
“hampered by disastrous fires”
and some consequential losses
were incurred. Moneys re-
ceived from insurance co.’s,
£140,000, plus sale of hotels,
and not yet re-expen d ed,
account for a considerable part
of the group’s current liquid
position.
Prospects for the current term
are favorable. The economic
outlook for both industry and
commerce in W.A.—as against
the immediate situation in the
East—is looking up with
general all-round benefits going
the way of most Sandgropers.
The co. continues to pursue
with “vigor” its increasing ex-
port markets.
The end of the term saw the
13,864,26 f ss. ords. each
covered by visible net tangible
assets of 10s. 9d. on consoli-
dated book values. Last week
the scrip sold as high as 14s. 3d.
looking nevertheless a very
good buy at this price.
For a top line brewery there
seems to be room for much
improvement as the equivalent
of 14s. 3d. on an ex bonus basis
is 12s. 6d. returning 5 p.c. from
the 12| p.c. div. Bulking
colossal, the cover on each of
the 6 p.c. 20s. prefs. was
£l5O 2s. sd.
other agencies. Ilut whatever our
Bankers and others may be pre-
pared to lend us, there is an obvi-
ous limit (o tlie amount we can
properly borrow to lend to our
clients, and we are just not in a
position to allow our advances to
clients to continue to increase at
tlie rate they have done in the past
two years. On the contrary, your
Board considers that we should
materially reduce the present
figures. It is true that these figures
have been adversely affected by the
re-stocking program that followed
the lOol) drought in South Aus-
tralia and. therefore, should im-
prove as a result of the restora-
tion in earning capacity. Never-
theless, the tendency for a section
of our clients to lean heavily on us
for finance is one that is likely to
cause us concern for some time to
come.
We can afford to find the funds
for the seasonal requirements of
those clients who need this assist-
ance and we can on occasions give
our clients substantial assistance
to help them recover from drought
losses. Hut. large though our Com-
pany is, we have not got the
financial resources which will in
addition enable us to provide for
the capital requirements of our
clients. We think it most import-
ant that primary producers should
in proper cases he able to obtain
finance for capital works which
will expand production, but this
finance will need to he provided
by some agency other than the
Pastoral Finance Companies.
The prospects for the current
year are difficult to assess, but our
results will be materially assisted
fiy the increased carry-forward
of wool.
The Hoard again records its
appreciation of the work done by
the Staff during the past year,
those of them who have tlu
responsibility of keeping our ad-
vances tinder control have an
essential task, hut stock hold el’s
"ill realise that it is by no means
an easy one.


Your banker
or stockbroker
knows...
SSSfe
mmmmmm
■Mmmm
mm
mm
TODAY’S
SAFEST FIN A N CIA ■
INVESTMENT
Acceptance Limited
Reg.
First
Mortgage
Debenture
Stock
P.A. for
8 and 10 years
FIXED LOHG TERM STOCK
SHORT TERM NOTICE STOCK
7 Vz>°/o
P.A. on 12
mths. notice
6°?o
P.A. on 6
mths. notice
S°/o
P.A. on 3
mths. notice
P.A. at call
Applications accepted only on forms attached to the Prospectus. Available from:
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67-1924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melt.
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William Street, Adelaide
408 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.
PAID UP CAPITAL £7,000,000
RMA. 15V
GUARANTEED BY REID MURRAY HOLDINGS LTD.
Australia Silknit Ltd
"Cears that overseas competl-
tion and imports of ready-
made garments would adversely
affect the domestic textile in-
dustry had “regrettably become
only too true,” said Australia
Silknit’s chairman, Mr H. G.
Carter, during his annual
address to the shareholders.
In addition the market was
aggravated by severe credit
restrictions, which had affected
the trading in the last six
weeks of the financial year.
A leading manufacturer of
women’s and children’s under-
wear, nightwear, rayon piece-
goods, etc., Australia Silknit
Ltd was originally sponsored
by Silknit Limited of Canada.
The Australian company was
set up in 1927, and operates
mills and factories in Sydney,
and in the N.S.W. country
centres of Young. Swansea and
Wollongong.
Despite the generally difficult
and highly competitive trading
conditions, Australia Silknit
had maintained its earnings last
term. Consolidated net profit
for the year ended December
31, 1960, edged up by £493 to
£24,262.
Arrived at after providing
£16,366 for taxation (up
£10,700) and setting aside
£16,030 for depreciation (up
£1627) consolidated net profit
was equivalent to an earning
rate of 15.9 p.c. on the un-
changed ordinary capital, com-
pared with 15.5 p.c. in the
preceding term, 16.7 p.c. in
1958 and 17.9 p.c. in 1957. The
adequately covered, steady 10
p.c. dividend cheque absorbed
£12,600. Reserves gaine d
£7462, rising to £421,535:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends N Re-
Dec. Profit. Pref. , Ord. ——> serves.
31, 7 p.c.
£ £ p.c. £ £
’So. .20,000 4200 12| = 15,125 323,262
Tax overprovided, £lO4O . . 32.7,202
Loss.
’36. .23,912 4200 10 = 12,100 284,990
Profit
’57..25.925 4200 10 = 12,100 294,015
Tax overprovided, £l3OO .. 295,915
’58..24,403 4200 10 = 12,350 303,708
Tax overprovided, £l5O . . 303,918
From inner res., £101,294 405,212
Share premium, £l5OO . . 406,712
Added on consolidation,
£392 407,104
’59..23,769 4200 10 = 12,000 414,073
’6O. .24,262 4200 10 = 12,600 421,535
The heavy increase in tax
provision seems somewhat
anomalous in the light of the
figures disclosed. Subsidiary
companies “were all active
during the year, and each
showed a net profit on trading,
such profits have been sub-
stantially distributed as divi-
dends to the parent co.”
The company acquired
some real estate during the year
and has installed new plant “to


Missing Friend
FOAT —William born at Yarram about
the year 1885, son of Richard Foat, late
of Oakleigh who died on the 31st
October 1917. Would William Foat
or his children please communicate with
NATIONAL TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
and AGENCY CO. of Australasia Ltd.,
95 Queen Street, Melbourne, as soon as
possible.
Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MICHAEL FILLIOS late of DarE
iugton, New South Wales.—TAKE
NOTICE that Margarethe Fillios has
filed a petition for divorce No. 3170 of
1960 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE
that if you wish to defend you may
tile an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Mint Building* Macquarie
Street Sydney within six weeks from
the date of publication of this notice
A copy of the petition may be obtained
without charge from MESSRS. PETER
O. KEARNEY & CO., Solicitors, 60
Hunter Street, Sydney.— C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.'
A Divorce Petition has been filed
against GORDON LAMBERT, late of
63.Harwood Hill, Welwyn Garden City,
Hertfordshire, England, who may apply
to the Divorce Registry, Somerset Douse,
London, W.C.2, England, for a copy of
the Petition. If within 80 days lie has
not communicated with the Registry,
the Court may hear the case in his
absence. —B. LONG, Registrar.
iN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
To MALCOLM JOHN REID, late of
48 Atchison Street, Wollongong.—
TAKE NOTICE that JOYCE HAZEL
REID has tiled a Petition of divorce No.
3317 of 1959 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards. If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court,
Mint Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney
by 13th September, 1961 and obtain a
copv of tile petition without charge from
ETHER, WEBSTER & SEEZAK, Solici-
tors, 33 Macquarie Place, Svdney.—
C. A. H. HARMS Registrar.
further modernise the dye-
house.” Book value of land,
buildings and plant rose by
£188,998 to £283,202.
Liquidity declined, with the
theoretical working capital
£181,764 lower at £324,032
On the other hand, stocks rose
by £120,639. Book debts were
£18,295 lower at £52,715 and
cash decreased by a heavy
£135,884 to £75,000:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1 1058. 1959. 1960.
Paid capital — £ £ £
i Pref. •• 60,000 60,000 60,000
’ ord. 121,000 126,000 126,000
Reserves . . 303,768 414,073 421,535
Creditors .. 80,585 115.684 260,602
Overdraft •• 1,758
Staff funds . . 634 2,810 2,464
Ta\ provision 21,775 21,482 23.376
Dividends .. 8,400 8,400 8,400
596,162 748,449 904,135
Land, buildings,
L plant . . 7(>,864 94,204 283.202
fetoc-k .. 203,841 372,278 492,917
.Debtors .. 84,985 71,010 52,715
(Cash. etc. .. 230,472 210,884 75,000
Intangibles . . 73 301
596,162 748,449 904,135
Creditors were £144,918 higher
at £260,602. Net tangible asset
backing works out at 21s. 9d.
for each of the 504,000 ss. ords.
on the basis of consolidated
figures. The 20s. 7 p.c. cum.
prefs. have a net tangible asset
backing of £lO 2s. sd.
Credit restrictions, high
labor costs, changes in con-
sumer tastes, the fast rate of
obsolescence of plant and
machinery, necessitating fre-
quent modernisation and re-
placement, and the relatively
easy entry of competitive mer-
chandise from overseas add
up to a rather sober picture
for the immediate future. Still,
the group is in good shape and
its assets are well maintained
and productive.
At the last sale in Sydney the
5s ords. fetched 7s. 3d. a unit.
The immediate yield was 6.9
p.c. on the basis of the steady
10 p.c. dividend distribution.
At this price the scrip looks
interesting for an investor, who
is prepared to take a risk with
this class of shares.
COMPANY NOTES
Bulkships Ltd
IVA.V. “Wollongong,” a
T**- 16.400 ton deadweight
ore carrier, was launched from
The Broken Hill Proprietary's
Whyalla (S.A.) shipyard on
June 27, 1961.
This vessel is the first of two
ore carriers to be built for
Bulkships Ltd. Melbourne, and
will be 539 ft long, have a
breadth of 66ft 6in. and loaded
draft of about 29ft 6in. This
will be the 35th launching
from The B.H.P. Whvalia
shipyard.
All accommodation is lined
with laminated plastic and is
air conditioned, with each
member of the crew having a
single berth cabin.
M.V. “Wollongong” is ex-
pected to be commissioned
about the end of the year.
OIL AND MINING
Combarngo No. 1 Well
A ssociated Australian Oil-
T* fields N.L. reports that
a casing has been cemented at
Combarngo No. 1 well at
5125 ft. Testing is now in pro-
gress, but “no significant results
have yet been obtained.”
Thorough testing will take
several more days, “after which
the results will be announced
promptly.”
Wapet
VXfEsi Australian Petro-
leum Ptv Ltd reports that
a new logging device was used
for the first time in the State
during the logging of the
Eneabba No. 1 well. The
special sonic logging tool, flown
in from Paris, measures the
velocity of sound through the
rocks and helps to ascertain
the porosity and lithologies of
the formations being tested.
The Eneabba well has now
been drilled to 3833 ft.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 650
Across
I—An impediment to balancing heresy, perhaps. (8, 5)
9 801 l with this squirrel’s sustenance. (3)
10— Nominal boss takes it back to a Russian city bird
with coppers. (7, 4)
1 1— The rain spoilt this head-covering. (4-3)
12— Lane’s yell comes back in Anglo-Saxon. (6)
15— Produce more eggs than expenditure. (6)
16— Nightcap riddle who's given to hypothesis. (8)
19—Pop back to the vacant land tit
for a post-office. Fit? That’s
right. (8)
21—Increase some excursion by the
French. (6)
24—Exempt from examination
hate. (6)
26 —Struck 150 before getting ex-
pelled. (7)
29 Rows some of the ship with a
graduate who wrote “Gentlemen
Prefer Blondes”? (11)
30— Thus you make a little
money. (3)
31 — An obviously newish “Faust”
tune is reversed by this European
queen. (4, 2,7)
Down
1 — Hypocritical word repugnant to
real triers. (4)
2 Pull out the additional century
before tea. (7)
3 Pauses to bury a rising Euro-
pean. (9)
4 The stitched border of an Emmet
hymn. (6)
5 Girl who provides two articles
from Spain. (4)
6 Play by Capek Jolson of the
country. (5)
7 Makes a reference about East
jackets. (7)
8 — -Efforts by river factory activity,
etc. (10)
13—Intermittently unequipped to
be a fairy queen to the
north. (3, 3,4)
14 —Gum up the countenance? (3)
17— Saucy American naval unit is
with whooping-cough. (9)
18 — Possessive pronoun. (3)
20 —Kneecap girl is on strike. (7)
22 Many a newspaper royalty col-
lected by a laundry employee. (7)
23 Jolson not up over a Melbourne
suburb. (6)
25 —Revolution around a country. (5)
27 — Pop nothing into the panel-
ling. (4)
28— It’s in the middle of the petulant
city to the south of Moscow. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 649


(r* «
silos cheaper
ever before
in
sc
. it
3%
iPtH?
*
ill
'
.
8 '<:
iif
WWSW?
It will pay you immediate and lasting dividends to investigate this
new Auger, especially developed for use with Lysaght Silos. With
oats particularly, the Auger is faster and more economical than bag
handling. Operates by flat belt drive from tractor and the
tractor is very easily positioned. Easily assembled! Designed to
fill a Silo battery from one position.
AUGER SELECTION TABLE
3 POPULAR SIZES
21 FT
26 FT
31 FT
£97
£lO9
£ll6
jf.C.R. NEWCASTLE)
SUPPLIED COMPLETE WITH 8 BUSHEL
BUILT-IN HOPPER
FEATURES
• Suits all Lysaght Silos in the 1,200 b.
to 3,700 b. range.
•No maintenance all bearings
sealed.
• Flat Belt drive pulley supplied.
• Complete ready for attachment of
belt guide rollers for belt pro-
vided.
• Designed to fill Silo from centre of
roof—enabling maximum capacity
to be obtained.
• Exceptionally easy to assemble and
erect.
• Chute tubes are telescopic; cleaning
doors provided in hopper.
ORB
JOHN LYSA6HT (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
Offices in Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Fremantle® A45 . Q
