

The Bulletin
Registered in Australia for trans-
mission by post as a newspaper,
October 14, 1961
K
THE ALMS RACE
£
N
P
E
A
to.


First choice of modern-minded
home planners...
IYSAGHT
ORB
STEEL SHEET ROOFING
Tf /
m
-
m
Wk
IMLi
% m
S-Jui
|f
$
V *
m
\ *
Today ask your architect about the Lysaght Steel Sheet that
will blend perfectly into your new home plan.
He may recommend Klip-Lok, the smart self-locking low-cost
steel sheet used in the home above, or he may feel that Corrugated
suits your plan better. In certain instances, Flat with its
edges rolled and lapped may be suggested.
Whichever is your final choice, it will add the crowning touch
to your modern home and you can be sure it will stay smart
and serviceable for many years to come . . .
r
m
«»»«***
. «
Just published . . . fascinating new guide to the newest trends in
home design. Send for your copy today! Fill in and post coupon below.
John Lysaght (Australia) Limited, B.
Port Line Building, 50 Young St., Sydney
Please send me, without cost or obligation, the new Lysaght
Portfolio of Low Cost Home Plans.
ADDRESS
STATE
3 TYPES
TO CHOOSE
FROM
Corrugated: Lysaght Red Orb
Sheet, made especially rigid
for roofing purposes, has almost
endless applications in the
building industry. Available in
all wanted widths and lengths;
also pre-painted in aluminium
where speedy finishing is a
factor.
Flat: Essential for forming
guttering, downpipes, etc.;
also widely used for special
roofing purposes and effects.
*Klip-Lok! New smartly ribbed,
heavily galvanized Steel Sheet
with self-locking shoulders for
flat and near flat roofing, and
wall cladding. In cost-saving
unbroken lengths to 50 ft.
No. 222044


TEARING OFF A STRIP
By Lovell Jones
LET HIM TRY, WHO DOES HE
THINK HE’S DEALING WITH
A BEGINNER?LET HIM JUST DROP
ONE. I DARE HIM/DO YOU HEAR ME
\\>myou//
SOOAf//
you'll NAVE TO EXCUSE ME,ONE
MINUTE I'M RH. THE HANDSOME ,
INTELlfCEllAl SUDDENLY BOOM!
I'M A BLUE STREAK MISSILE
MEDICAL SCIENCE CALLS IT SCHIZOPHENIA.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; Phone: 27 5971.
Vol. 82
No. 4261
A Nasty Isolation
FOR tactical reasons it is probably a good idea for Mr McEwen
and Mr Holt to overstate their case against Britain’s entry into
the Common Market, although to tell a French newspaper
that this is going to hasten the collapse of the free world’s trade (see
page 17) might be banging the drum a bit too loud. We want Britain
to come to some kind of a bargain that will at least let us down
lightly. But we must also understand that the alternative to Com-
mon Market entry for Britain may be a stagnant economy and grow-
ing international ineffectualness; and that these might later lead
Britain to a desperate trade liaison with the Soviet and the “People’s
Democracies.” Britain has to get into Europe whether we like it or
not.
For that reason the British Labor Party could not have made a
worse decision than the pronouncement of its annual conference last
week that Britain should still go it alone. This opposition to the
Common Market expressed by Britain’s alternative government will
weaken Britain’s negotiating position with the “Six”; economically
Britain is almost a liability to the Common Market anyway; now
that the alternative government has declared itself so flatly against
joining the Common Market what can Britain negotiate from?
Even worse, the Little Englander obsessions endemic in the Labor
Party may now come out in their full horror. By their very act, the
Labor Party may have ensured that Britain does not get much of a
bargain, so they will attack the Common Market all the more furi-
ously. They may become the patriot party, the anti-European party,
bringing out all that is worst in British life the contempt for
Europe, the self-love and hurt pride, the obsession with the past, the
feeling that the world owes Britain a living. Combine this with the
socialist obsessions of philanthropy and puritanism and you get a
very nasty mixture.
In the cracked crystal ball one sees an isolated and bankrupt
Socialist England getting more and more cranky with its failures as
it lives in Crippsian austerity, forced to withdraw from Nato, fiddling
with restrictions and controls, desperately seeking Eastern markets.
W HY has the British Labor Party risked this alternative? Mainly
because it still suffers from big-headedness; it has never accepted
Britain’s decline in power; it believes that Britain still has a unique
role. The Labor Party does not want Britain to get too wrapped up
with France and West Germany. This year it retreated but it still
considers Britain’s two main European partners to be excessively
anti-Russian. To a Labor Party which blows itself up as a bridge
between East and West, as an easer of world tensions, the almost in-
evitable political effects of the Common Market are anathema. They
are also seen as a threat to Labor’s love affair with underdeveloped
Commonwealth Countries.
How Britain could play this unique part in world affairs if it
went broke is something that British Labor will never contemplate.
It has no new economic policies; it would merely return to those that
did not work before. It cannot accept the miraculous economic
growth of Western Europe because that came from planned capital-
ism; so it rejects it without a workable alternative and retreats into
a proud and nasty isolation.


This Australia
THE ROBERTS AFFAIR
Postman's Knock in
Queensland
FROM JOHN HIGGINS IN BRISBANE
RAY ROBERTS
Grilled
"Oostman’s Knock is back in favor again
-*■ in Queensland —although this time it
is being played by adults instead of
children, with kicks instead of kisses for
forfeits. The game got away to a flying
start on August 6 when Brisbane “Truth”
rocked Post Office officialdom and the
general public with an apparently well-
substantiated charge that the Post Office
in Queensland was using at least one
car with faked number plates. It actually
photographed a faked plate being placed
on the car in the Post Office car pool.
The plate was originally issued to a
Holden sedan owned by a Brisbane drug
company, and was cancelled in Lismore
on September 20 last year. Under Queens-
land law it should have been returned
to the Main Roads Department and
destroyed. The newspaper also alleged
that the car in question, complete with
faked plate, had been used for illicit week-
end jaunts to various holiday resorts.
Postmaster-General Davidson and his
State Director-General (Mr Brown) hotly
repudiated the “Truth” charges. “Scurri-
lous and disgusting,” the P.M.G. said.
Mr Brown claimed that the issue of
surrendered plates was common practice,
and such plates were used on cars involved
in investigations into Post Office irregu-
larities. In the Federal House, Mr David-
son gave similar replies when quizzed by
a Queensland member. A week after the
story had been broken, a Mr Ray Roberts
found himself without a job.
Employed as a P.O. driver, it seemed
that he was the man who tipped “Truth”
off to the allegedly improper use of the
car in question. Mr Roberts said that he
had been grilled by Security Police for
hours, and threatened with the Crimes
Act if he did not resign. Under the Act,
public servants can receive up to two
years jaii for disclosing “unauthorised
information.” “Truth” cried to high
heaven for justice, but could not give
Mr Roberts a job ; Postal union presi-
dent F. J. Waters gave the impression that
he couldn’t care less; and there the
matter seemed to have ended.
Last week it went off like a bomb when
Mr Davidson revealed that Mr Brown
had been suspended from his £72-a-week
job after he had admitted to investigating
Post Office officials three misconduct
charges concerning the improper use of
a car. It hadn’t been a “scurrilous”
attack after all! With the bit fairly in
his teeth, Mr Davidson also offered to
arrange a top level interview with Mr
Roberts to see if he had been frightened
into resigning his job by Security Police.
Then on Monday he gave him his job
back.
Somebody had certainly succeeded in
frightening Mr Roberts, because at first
he would only talk to the press through
his wife to avoid (he said) any Crimes
Act liability. Gaining courage after Mr
Davidson’s assurance that he could speak
freeiy and frankly, he told pressmen later
that he would do that exactly when the
interview took place.
Mr Davidson got away to a sticky start
in this one, but has finished with his
colors more or less intact. He fell for the
old and popular Ministerial fallacy of
blindly defending Departmental heads and
Departmental practices. He has not
hesitated to make the amends once the
facfs have finally been brought out. It
is to be hoped he carries through a
thorough investigation into Mr Robert’s
charges, which probably are the most
serious aspect of the case.
There are excellent reasons why
penalties should be provided for the im-
proper disclosure of certain information
by Public Servants—but that information
must surely be very limited in Australia,
anu limited to a handful of Public Ser-
vants. Certainly it surely cannot be in-
tended by the legislature that Public
Servants under the Crimes Act can be
forced to become, in effect, accessories to
a crime, no matter how minor, by virtue
of withholding information. Backroom
questioning of minor employees by
Security Police is a distastful business in
any case. It should not be tolerated under
any circumstances unless the people con-
cerned are allowed legal advice, or union
representation. As far as Mr Brown is
concerned, his future is in the hands of
the Public Service Board. Well liked and
respected in Queensland, extremely com-
petent, most people here feel genuinely
sorry for him. He has become the meat
in a highly political sandwich.
LEGAL TANGLE
The Custody of Kirk
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
T AST December Mr Justice Little in the
' Supreme Court issued a writ giving
an American engineer, Clifton Bancroft
Duncan (30), custody of his two-year-old
son Kirk. Soon afterwards the boy’s
mother, an Australian, Yvonne Beatrice
Jackson Duncan (39), received a tele-
gram, purporting to come from her hus-
band in California.
As a result she believed the boy and
his father were in the United States. By
a chance encounter, she discovered they
were still in Victoria, and in January this
year she obtained an order from Mr
Justice O'Bryan restraining her husband
from removing the child from the State.
Counsel for Mrs Duncan described the
cable as a fraud.
The couple had come to Australia in
1959, following their marriage in the
United States where Mrs Duncan had
lived for some years. Mrs Duncan, three
times married, had two other children —
Sue (16) and Carl (11)—by a previous
marriage. By December, 1960, her third
marriage had broken up.
Later, in January, Mr Justice Pape
issued another order restraining both
parents from removing Kirk from Vic-
toria. The husband retained interim
custody of the boy. The court heard
evidence of attempts by Mrs Duncan to
take him to New South Wales, and by
her husband to take him to America,
When the case came on again in April,
Mrs Duncan wept in the witness-box,
and pledged that she would spend the
rest of her life in Australia if given
custody of Kirk. Mr Justice Smith left
custody of the boy with his father and
expressed the view that Mrs Duncan was
emotionally unstable. In the interests
of the boy, the Judge said he would give
both parents until July to show who could
best arrange for daytime care of the child
in their absence.
Last week it was revealed that Mr
Duncan had taken the child to California
by plane in August. The mother’s solici-
tors had received a letter from the
father’s solicitors in California saying
that they were applying for custody of
the child in the Superior Court of
California.


Mr Justice Smith was told that the
letter had been sent to Melbourne in the
mistaken belief that Mrs Duncan’s
solicitors were acting for Duncan. An
official of Pan American Airways told
the court that the person who sold
Duncan a ticket had apparently over-
looked an instruction given some months
earlier that he was not to be given a
passage.
Mr Justice Smith terminated the order
under which Duncan had custody of the
child, but refused to give custody to Mrs
Duncan. He said that there was no
evidence that an order giving the mother
custody would have any bearing on pro-
ceedings in the United States. Outside
the court, Mrs Duncan said she would
try to reach America to light the case
started there by her husband.
THE SENATE
The Cohen Case
By MUGGA
A major explosion occurred last week
** in Victorian political circles eventu-
ally reverberating round most Australian
States. Many allegations were made—
mainly that an A.L.P. Senate candidate,
Mr S. Cohen, was president of a Com-
munist front organisation. The organi-
sation concerned, the Jewish Council to
Combat Fascism and Anti-Semitism, has
been written up in my articles in The
Observer last year. This week I decided
to put an end to many rumors and so 1
interviewed the chairman of the Public
Relations Committee of the Victorian
Jewish Board of Deputies, Mr I. Leibler.
Mugga: Does Mr Cohen enjoy the sup-
port of the Jewish community in Victoria?
Mr Leibler: The Victorian Jewish
Board oi Deputies as the roof body of
the entire Jewish community is a non-
political body and as such we cannot
comment or participate in election con-
troversies concerning aspiring political
candidates of any party. Members of
the Jewish community aspiring for any
political office do so as private individuals
and they cannot claim organised Jewish
support, as there is no such thing as an
organised Jewish vote in Victoria. Jewish
voters are spread throughout all major
political parties.
Mugga: Mr Leibler, it is believed by
some people that the Jewish Council to
Combat Fascism and Anti-Semitism in
Victoria, of which Mr Sam Cohen, Q.C.
is president, constitutes an important
Jewish organisation. Could you tell us
more about this organisation?
Mr Leibler: The Jewish Council to
Combat Fascism and Anti-Semitism was
affiliated with the Victorian Jewish Board
of Deputies until March, 1952. Follow-
ing a considerable and protracted amount
of tension, embarrassment and ill-will
created by that body both inside and
outside the Jewish community and only
after repeated warnings had been given,
it w’as unanimously decided by the full
meeting of the Victorian Jewish Board
of Deputies to expel that organisation.
Since then the Jewish Council has made
numerous approaches to the Board of
Deputies in respect to reaffiliation, yet
the Board has not been prepared to take
them back. The political reason why
the Jewish Council has proved unaccept-
able to the organised Jewish community
is due to the fact that it has never sig-
nificantly deviated from official Soviet
and Communist policy. In the early
fifties responsible officers of the Jewish
Council went so far as to go on record
defending and excusing publicly the per-
secution and massacre of Jews behind the
Iron Curtain.
Mugga: Mr Leibler, how do you ex-
plain the fact that Mr Cyril Wyndham,
State secretary of the A.L.P. in Victoria
denied recently in a circular to all A.L.P.
branches in Victoria and in a statement
to the press that the Jewish Council of
which Mr Sam Cohen is president was
a Communist dominated organisation.
Mr Leibler: 1 have no official know-
ledge of Mr Wyndham's statements and
1 am not in a position to comment on
statements connected with controversies
inside or between political parties.
Mugga: Mr Leibler, is it the considered
view of the organised Jewish community
in Victoria as represented by the Vic-
torian Jewish Board of Deputies in Mel-
bourne that the Jewish Council is a Com-
munist front?
Mr Leibler: Yes.
Mugga: Mr Leibler, some people are
very often confusing the Board of Depu-
ties with the Jewish Council or else they
claim that the Jewish Council represents
a “rival faction” in relation to the Board
of Deputies. What is the true position?
Mr Leibler: To say that the two
organisations are “rival factions” is utter
and complete nonsense based on ignor-
ance of how we are organised. The Vic-
torian Jewish Board of Deputies is a
roof body representing ove one hundred
Jewish religious, cultural, sporting and
youth organisations in Victoria. It is in
fact a federation of all Jewish organisa-
tions of any significance. The Jewish
Council is an insignificant splinter group.
Mugga: Mr Leibler, it has come to my
notice that (he General Secretary of the
Jewish Council has addressed in recent
months numerous A.L.P. branches in
country districts, e.g. Mildura and Hamil-
ton, and that the local press and radio
have created the impression that he speaks
on behalf of the Jewish community.
Mr Leibler: There is no question that
the only people entitled to speak in the
name of the organised Jewish com-
munity are the duly elected officers of
the Victorian Jewish Board of Deputies,
representing the bulk of Victoria's 30,000
Jews, of which the Jewish Council does
not even form a part, though it often tries
to create a false impression in this respect.
POLICE
Skid Row?
FROM A HOBART CORRESPONDENT
TThough Attorney-General R. F. Fagan
A dispassionately disposed of several
of the Opposition’s allegations of vic-
timisation against a policeman, a strong
feeling persists that the system of dis-
ciplining police is due for drastic over-
haul.
The allegations of the Opposition
concern treatment accorded Constable
j. P. Dunne. Following a four-hour
debate in the House of Assembly on
October 4, Speaker Aylett cast his vote
with the Liberals and Independents when
the House divided 15-15 on a move to
set up a board to inquire into action
taken against Dunne.
Mr Pearsall (Lib.), introducing the
motion, said that Dunne had made two
unsuccessful attempts to put his griev-
ances before Commissioner W. J. Delder-
field before he (Pearsall) took up the
case. Dunne, he said, had been put on
“skid row” on a Hobart beat following
incidents at Devonport on the night of
May 31. Dunne, then a detective in
Hobart, had been holidaying in Devon-
port when he was called in to assist local
detectives investigating a robbery. The
three detectives went to a hotel where a
seaman they wanted to interview was
staying. Later it was alleged that there
had been an assault. Dunne had been
put on the beat in Hobart for “the
Devonport incident.” He had, Mr Pear-
sall said, insisted on being charged. The
magistrate dismissed the charge without
hearing the defence. “But the bulldogs
weren’t satisfied," Mr Pearsall said. Men
who had been in the hotel were called
to give evidence against the policemen,
who had been convicted of drinking
during prohibited hours and acquitted on
the charge of being on the premises
irregularly. Dunne, he continued, had
earlier been “banished” to Queenstown
following an incident at an Evandale
hotel. Investigating officers on that
occasion had threatened the publican with
loss of his provisional licence if he did
not tell them about the incident.
But political pressure had been used
to save two police officers with A.L.P.
connections when they had been in
similar trouble, Mr Pearsall claimed. The
new Minister for Police, Mr McLough-
lin, said that an inquiry would hurt
Dunne and his family. “On the file
there are some very unsavory things,” he
said.
The sorting out of the facts is now
the task of the board of inquiry, but
Parliament will have to face broader
questions of the treatment of policemen
accused of civil offences. Mr Pearsall
referred to this theme when he said that
Dunne “had been found out by one of
those miserable, sneaking, dirty investiga-
tions” conducted by police under the
pretence of making a “departmental
inquiry.”


BETTING
Acid Test
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
A. HAWKE
Premeditated?
Mr Bill Grayden, a Liberal member
of the W.A. Legislative Assembly,
strengthened his already impressive
reputation for starting political con-
troversies when he alleged that S.P.
bookmakers in Perth were building police-
proof shelters for illegal telephone betting,
and that an anonymous telephone-caller
had threatened to throw sulphuric acid
in his face if he did not stop attacking the
S.P. bookies.
He first enlivened a fairly dull debate
on the Betting Control Act (Amendment)
Bill with a claim that former licensed-
premise bookmakers in Perth were build-
ing look-outs on steel stilts, which were
designed to protect them against police
raids.
The Labor Opposition, which is
acutely sensitive about premise book-
makers, who were comfortably licensed
when it was in power, immediately pressed
Mr Grayden for details. He replied that
he would supply privately the address of
the house he had seen.
The next day he said that an anonymous
caller had phoned his house and told a
family friend, who answered the call, that
Grayden would have sulphuric acid
thrown in his face if he did not stop
attacking the premise bookmakers.
When Parliament met the following day
Opposition leader Hawke asked for a
thorough police investigation of Gray-
den’s acid-throwing allegations, and said
it was probable that Grayden had
arranged the call himself.
When Labor member Bert Oldfield
reminded Grayden of his promise to let
members know where the structures were,
Grayden said that members who wanted
to know could see him after he got futher
details. He did not want to bring names
into it, particularly as those particular
premises might not have been used for
illegal betting.
“Ah! Ah!” jeered Labor members,
“crawling out of it!”
The next day Grayden lodged a cheque
for £25.000 with the '‘Weekend News”
newspaper as a reward to “Mr Hawke
or anybody else” who could prove that
he had arranged the anonymous phone-
call to his house.
Meantime, former premise bookmaker
“Sol” Solley conducted pressmen on a
tour of an outhouse at his Nedlands home
which he claimed was the structure re-
ferred to by Mr Grayden.
It turned out to have a wooden stair-
case leading up to it, a conventional
plywood door, one telephone, a bed and
an unlocked filing cabinet filled with
business accounts.
The next day Grayden confirmed that
the structure he referred to in Parliament
was in Solley's house. He said he had
seen it from the street after he had been
told that the police had also seen it.
When Parliament met again last week
former Labor minister Herbie Graham
withdrew an 11-point question alleging
a political stunt by Grayden from the
notice paper and claimed it had been
“emasculated” by Speaker Hearmann.
Later, Mr Grayden made a long state-
ment in the form of questions to the
Speaker in which he alleged that Mr
Hawke and Mr Graham had launched
a premeditated attack on him. He said
that, “unless they withdrew their imputa-
tions, their actions set a new and shameful
precedent which endangered the respon-
sible conduct and effectiveness of Par-
liament.”
Speaker Hearmann said Grayden had
not given him a copy of his questions.
He dismissed Mr Graham's “emascula-
tion” allegations by saying that members
set a very bad precedent if they asked
questions without notice which reflected
on other members.
There the matter rested, with all the
major questions conveniently unanswered
and Mr Grayden's £25.000 still unclaimed.
The bill, on which Mr Grayden was
speaking when he started the week-long
controversy, will give police the power
to enter by force premises where illegal
betting is suspected after obtaining a
warrant from a Justice of the Peace.
STUDENTS
The Matress on the 4th Floor
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
'There was bewilderment as well as
bargains for customers the other
Saturday morning in the bedding depart-
ment on the fourth floor of Myer’s,
Melbourne, when a 1927 Austin revved-
up and roared among them. The car had
come up on a service lift along with a
group of university students intent on
shattering the world record held by
Sydney students for the number who
could pile on to a mattress.
The Myer mattress was a giant 12ft.
by 7ft. 6in. affair, made as a publicity
gimmick. The public were invited to
guess the number of springs in it, and
Myer's offered £5O for university chari-
ties if the students could pack more than
104 of themselves on it. With some
engineering students acting as stewards,
two layers of students totalling 105 in
all, packed on to the mattress, compres-
sing its springs with a weight of seven
and a half tons.
The deed accomplished, a group of
students lifted the mattress head-high
and ran from the building through the
city to the Yarra. Police halted it several
times, but impromptu eloquence got the
procession moving again.
Into the Yarra went the mattress and
paddling with their hands and using an
umbrella as a sail, five made the other
shore just as the sodden mattress began
to sink. Dragged from the river, it now
measured 13ft. 6in. by Bft. Two tow-
trucks which arrived were dismayed to
learn that it was not a car which had
gone over the river bank. Without their
aid, the muddy mattress was taken away
for a dry-out.
Even though exams were drawing
close, the students were out in force
again when it was reported that three
Nauruan women, passing through Mel-
bourne after attending an educational
seminar in Samoa, had been asked to
leave the West End private hotel in South
Yarra. The manageress, Mrs Lily Ward,
denied she was operating a color bar.
The women ‘‘were not our type of
clientele," she said, and with no apparent
sense of contradiction added that had
they been white they would have been
allowed to stay.
This was enough for the students. A
combined force from Melbourne and
Monash Universities, totalling over 100,
converged on the hotel and picketed it
for an hour. Leaflets condemning the
management's action were distributed to
motorists and pedestrians in busy Toorak
Road and posters nailed on trees in near-
by Fawkner Park. The leaflet read in
part: “The case of color discrimination
is particularly damaging to Australia as
the Nauruan people are being adminis-
tered by the Australian Government
under a U.N. trusteeship It is not very
encouraging to the Nauruans, who look
to Australia for help and friendship.”
The demonstration brought a welcome
reaction from the Victorian branch of
the Australian Hotels’ Association. Its
president, Mr J. E. Kellway, said that
incidents such as took place at the West
End private hotel (which is not a mem-
ber of his association) “put Australia in
a very bad light overseas. Nobody was
banned from his association’s hotels
because of color. We want to play our
part in breaking down barriers of
discrimination,” he added.


Tarner
"GET OFF THE BEACH! YOU LOOK OBSCENE."


THE LAW
Native Violence
BY KEITH WILLEY IN DARWIN
“TIGER” BRENNAN
“Dangerous”
Many who live and work among semi-
wild aborigines are growing alarmed
at the light penalties which Northern
Territory courts impose in cases of native
violence. An aboriginal can get away
with murder here and, generally, serve
no more than a year or 18 months in gaol.
Once the magic words “ritual murder
are mentioned the defence can call in an
anthropologist or two, and, as often as
not, get his man off scot-free. This
leniency, allied to an over-protective wel-
fare policy, has led to growing lack of
respect among natives for the police, and
the white man generally.
Harold “Tiger” Brennan, Member for
Elsey in the Legislative Council, has
warned that a dangerous situation is
developing in some areas outback, where
aborigines far outnumber whites.
In Darwin last week a soot-black, bean-
pole Andilyaugwa warrior named Nan-
gamalya came before the court. Nan-
gamalya comes from the Territory’s top
trouble-spot, Groote Eylandt, in the Gulf
of Carpentaria, where mission life over
recent years has been punctuated by
fights, riots and attacks on white men.
Latest outbreak was on September 7,
following one of the usual arguments
about women <the Parliamentary Select
Committee on Aboriginal Voting Rights,
taking evidence on Groote recently, was
told: “The only thing these people ever
get excited about is someone else’s wife").
Missionary Robert Bruce Dent alleged
he found Bada and Nangamalya abusing
one another. Each had a spear fitted to
his woomera.
Dent said in court he tried to reason
with them and Bada put down his spear.
However Nangamalya told him: “Shut
up. Yon talk too much.” Dent told the
Police Court in Darwin last week: “He
then hit me with the woomera. I did
nothing and quietly tried to explain to
him how serious his behavior was. He
punched me hard in the face and then
some others pulled him away. He was
still trying to punch me.”
Mr Alan Howie, J.P., asked the Welfare
Branch to “impress on Nangamalya that
he cannot go round assaulting people.”
Mr Howie added: “We have to protect
missionaries working in the field with
these people.” After these remarks—of
which Nangamalya himself understood
not one word—-Mr Howie and another
J.P., Mr Bert Hockley, fined the native
£4 plus 15s. costs.
After paying the fine —and if a native
hasn’t enough money the Welfare Branch
will invariably make up the difference —
Nangamalya was free to return to Groote.
In effect, his “penalty” has been a few
days’ holiday in Darwin.
By contrast, aboriginal actor Robert
Tudawali, hauled before the Police Court
last week to face yet another charge of
drinking liquor while a ward of the
Welfare Branch, was fined £3 10s. — only
10s. less than Nangamalya, who was guilty
of a serious assault. Tudawali’s offence
was that he had drunk “a few glasses
of wine’’ in his home at Bagot Com-
pound.
Territory courts’ penalties contrast
most strongly with those in supply cases.
A native who hands a tribal brother a
glass of beer will often spend longer
behind bars than if he had murdered
him
JOBS
Sydney or the Bush
FROM A LAUNCESTON CORRESPONDENT
TThe Tasmanian city worker who loses
his job can forget about heading for
the bush. Unemployment in the country
is worse than in the towns and cities.
That is why even the most active organ-
isers are finding it hard to whip up con-
ventional protest meetings, despite Tas-
mania’s relatively high unemployment
rate. The latest figures revealed that
Tasmania (up 260) was the only State
in which unemployment did not drop.
At that time, three per cent, of the
total work force was registered for
employment—the highest percentage in
Australia.
Seasonal work was down, and 2970
men and 1085 women were registered for
employment. Of these, 1600 men and
474 women were receiving unemploy-
ment benefits.
Five months ago Tasmanian Timber
Association chairman G. B. Leitch
reported that about a third of the State's
6000 timber-workers were jobless or on
rationed work. Stocks were at a record
height. Emergency tariff protection for
Australian hardboard against Malayan
and other timbers, demanded then by
Mr Leitch, has not been granted.
In some of the timber settlements more
than half the men are jobless. Many of
them are tied to the small houses, or
even shacks, which they own, and their
skills are so specialised that they can
work only as laborers away from their
own environment. They are the worst
and the most intractable aspect of
Tasmanian unemployment.
In Hobart, extensive dismissals fol-
lowed the bursting of a building boom.
Trades Hall officials say that more than
500 building-workers are out of jobs in
the area. Mr C. Alcorso, managing-
director of Silk and Textile Printers Ltd,
says that the flood of imports has forced
him to sack 250 of his firm’s 650
employees. Another pocket of unemploy-
ment in Hobart is at Austral Bronze,
where 130 men were put off.
Launceston's 3000-odd textile workers
have emerged without widespread dis-
missals or stand-downs, but there have
been extensive periods of 32- to 36-hour
weekly working. Building in Launceston
bas beer * ° r !,. a l blgbei level than las
and / worker u s fro ™ Hobart ’
and even from Victoria, have been taken
0,1 in sma ‘‘ numbers.
It was not surprising that a well-
publicised rally of unemployed in Laun-
ceston began with only 150 listeners and
finished with 15 marchers, mainly union
officials and Labor politicians, looking
slightly plush to be proclaiming by
f. bat Demand the Right
to
An unemployed rally at the Trades
Hall quickly degenerated into a debating
society affair in which a few union
leaders , and . Communist stalwarts im-
patiently listened to each others
harangues as the price of having an
audience for their own speeches,
More recent rallies at Devonport and
Hobart were equally unsuccessful.
Under threat of rain, about 150 attended
In Hobart. Most of them sat in cars, as
spectators rather than participants, leav-
hig it to party leaders to show some
enthusiasm for the usual omnibus resolu-
tlorl. oE , deb " ,te , a " d em P hat “; protest
a S. amst , the Government s econo-
™lc f P Ol for finance for
State public works, cal s ot impor con-
trols > Vf ,' nstead ° f u week, y e , n S a 8 e ;
ment of workers, a 35-hour week, and
a genera moratorium.
The Devonport rally was distinguished
hy having Mr Hector McFie, an Inde-
pendent (i.e., non-Labor) member of the
Legislative Council, as a speaker. He
struck an incongruously optimistic note,
Men with fingers on the employment
pulse say that, outside isolated sectors
such as the building trade in Hobart,
unemployment in the cities is no worse
than it was a year ago. The bodgie youth
with a contempt for work is now


“You've got to hand it to them, they've come a long Way since the First Fleet."
“unemployed,” a change of name, but
not of status. Sackings have not pene-
trated clerical and shop-assistant fields.
The laborer out of a job can usually get
one. The unemployed process-worker or
man of small specialised skill finds the
going harder. The Commonwealth
Employment people are confident of
placing all school-leavers.
But while everywhere else there is
reason for optimism, no easy answer will
be found in the timber industry. Force
of circumstances, changing patterns in
building, the default of the industry
itself in some aspects of quality and
price, and the huge stocks awaiting sale
at the lift of a buyer’s finger point to
continued work shortage for forest and
mill workers. This is one time when
Sydney would be better than the bush.
MIGRANTS
Films on a Shoe String
FROM W. HANNAN IN MELBOURNE
TV/Telbourne’s “Little Italy” the old
inner suburb of Carlton —lias in
the last few years become the nearest
thing to a lively, cosmopolitan quarter
in the whole sleepy city. Immigrants,
mostly Italian, have given it a character
quite different from the other inner
suburbs and leagues away from the vast
cemeteries which extend beyond. Now
thanks to the drive and dedication of
an Italian, Giorgio Mangiamele, Carlton
can also boast a nascent film industry.
Mangiamele came to Australia nine
years ago at the age of 26. He set him-
self up in photographic studios in Rath-
downe Street, Carlton, and looked about
for ways to accomplish his ultimate aim
of becoming a serious film director.
Needless to say there were few ways
open. His first film, of feature length,
intended for Italians, has never been
finished, due to dubbing difficulties. He
started a cinema school in Russell Street
a couple of years ago and made one
film “The Brothers,” before high rents
forced him out. “The Brothers” was
entered in last year’s Melbourne Film
Festival, and although it won no prize,
the organisers invited him to submit
another at the next Festival. “The Spag,”
set in Carlton and starring a nine-year-
old newspaper boy, Matteo Gravina,
along with a cast of richly assorted
nationalities, will be his entry in next
year’s Festival.
“The Spag” is a simple, human picture
of the varied life of Carlton. As the
title suggests, it touches on problems of
assimilation, but it does not aim to solve
them. It presents local problems in their
everyday context. The young hero sells
papers to help his family. He encounters
racial discrimination from a gang of
bodgies, but at the last moment his
closest friend is an Australian boy. What
counts is not the problem but the people.
Mangiamele himself is no crusader,
except for serious films. He is naturalised
and treats Australia as his home. He
will not be happy till he has added some-
thing to the country. A few years ago
he went back to Italy, but felt a
stranger. In a couple of simple percep-
tive phrases he painted the picture of a
man returning home to find his grand-
mother grey, the children grown, the
song changed, friends gone, of a irrn
who could not be sure he would be
recognised. After a while he came home
—to Carlton. And all he wants to do
here is to bring the lives of the people
he knows to the screen.
His prospects of course are no better
than those of any other serious Aus-
tralian film-maker. The actors are un-
paid, the films must be made as cheaply
as possible. Apart from the Film Festival
authorities he has found no support. It
is strange, as he says, that the many seri-
ous and highly talented Australian artists
have no impact on the community, and
it seems strange indeed, hearing Man-
giamele, that his sincere and passionate


5S
4
SOND 7
<l/iat/***
'v II I S K Y
!S»
Oaken casks of
specially selected
matured whiskies on
their wav to the blend-
ing vats where they
are “ married ” in the
age old way to produce
the famous Bond 7 blend.
fine liqueur whisky.
BOND 7
ONE OF THF FIVF GREAT WHISKIES OF THE WORLD
9286 B
ill
111
HELP
LEGACY
all the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street Sydney. BM2OOI.
enthusiasm should find no one sympa-
thetic enough to take a risk.
He tried one of the local TV stations
with "The Brothers.” On his own admis-
sion it was technically weak, but then
what decent Australian movie has been
technically strong? But that wasn t the
point anyway. The objection was simply
that it was "too original.” Anywhere
else in the world, Mangiamele pointed
out, it would have been thought too local.
Australians he thinks are too prac-
tical and prosaic. They prefer criticism
to enjoyment. As a people they lack a
sense of nationality, which makes them
insensitive to their surroundings and their
fellows. Nonetheless, like most of his
race, he is optimistic. He thinks films
like Tim Burstall’s "The Prize,” show
tremendous possibilities. Certainly, what-
ever his commercial success may be, he
intends to go on learning and observing
in the hope that he may illuminate a
little the lives of the people he lives
among.
WHEAT BOARD
The China Dinner
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
'"The Wheat Board sales manager, Mr
C. H. Perrett, who had been publi-
cised as guest speaker, was missing from
the Australia-China Society annual
banquet last Sunday. The society’s chair-
man. Dandenong dentist and goat-
breeder, Dr Clive Sandy, said Mr Perrett
had been under "pressure” not to speak.
Apparently Mr Perrett’s role as guest
speaker received more publicity than the
Australia - China Society expected.
Although missing him, the hundred or so
diners enjoyed their multi-course Chinese
meal washed down with South Australian
white wine.
Dr Sandy blamed The Bulletin for
Mr Perrett's last minute withdrawal as
guest speaker. The Australia-China
Society gave no advance publicity to its
dinner, nor would it issue any statements
concerning the dinner after it was over,
Dr Sandy said.
Jn view of this, it is interesting that
the banquet was reported in the Mel-
bourne Communist weekly "Guardian,”
which also claimed that "enemies of
normal Australia-China relations. .. .
have recently shown their hand in hysteri-
cal press articles and in behind-the-
scenes pressures exerted against a repre-
sentative of the Australian Wheat Board
who w'as to speak at last Sunday’s
Australia-China Society dinner in Mel-
bourne.”
Obviously Dr Sandy is not complain-
ing about publicity as such, but merely
embarrassing publicity. In Mr Perrett's
absence the guest speaker was Mr L.
Cahill of the Printing Industry Em-
ployees’ Union. Mr Cahill, who visited
China as a member of the A.C.T.U. dele-
gation to the 1961 May Day celebrations
in Peking, is father of the P.I.E.U. Chapel
at the “Herald,” Melbourne.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Two Malays
'T'he increasingly farcical situation in
Darwin in which the catch-as-catch
can game with the two Malays has made
our immigration policy a Mack Sennett
comedy is entirely the fault of the Depart-
ment of Immigration. Although legally
the Department’s position is faultless it
has strained a point unnecessarily and in-
humanly. If we bring two men here to
work and keep them here for many years
we should not later kick them out, even
if we clearly have the right to do so.
These two men do not represent a chal-
lenge to anything except bureaucratic
nicety.
It is quite proper for us to restrict the
stay of Asian University students ; their
own governments usually want us to.
And to insist that those who are other-
wise here on a restricted visit should go
when their time is up is unexceptionable.
But, except for cases of this kind, the
Government should—whatever its rights
—never deport from this country people
it has encouraged to migrate here and
who have lived here for some consider-
able time, unless it is for criminal activi-
ties, and so on. Immigration is least con-
troversially controlled at its source, not
by deportations.
At present, under an indenture system
of the most dubious kind “many hundreds
of Asians” (to quote Mr Downer) are
asked to come to Australia to do work
we cannot or will not do. This often
means in practice that they provide a
supply of cheap labor —one of the very
things our immigration control is sup-
posed to prevent. It always means that
they are a special class of encouraged
migrants who lack the rights of other
encouraged migrants. And this appears
in practice to be a purely racial migration
policy. The reasons why we control
Asian immigration are intended to be cul-
tural, social and economic—not racial.
We would not have encouraged these
men to come here in the first place if
they provided, a cultural, social or econo-
mic danger: why do we later throw them
out, except on racial grounds?
Either we encourage certain kinds of
persons to come to this country ; or sve
don't. But if we do, and if they live
here—at our invitation —for some time
we should never deport them. The
Government should make this very clear
by abolishing the indenture system of
migration; if we need Asian migrants
for special jobs they should come in a
limited number as ordinary migrants.
That deportations of this kind are the
exception, not the rule, was made clear
by Mr Downer when he announced that
last year Australian citizenship was
granted to 500 Asians who had com-
pleted 15 years’ residence. Why on earth
did he make this exception?
For those who believe in immigration
control it might seem a good thing if Mr
Downer’s department prepared a White
Paper which did two things: it could
elaborate policy and it could explain
the facts.
In elaborating policy it could insist on
our right to control immigration by
Government direction—the method also
used by India, Pakistan, Burma, Ceylon,
Malaya, Singapore, Cambodia, Vietnam
and Japan ; and it could explain that our
migration policy included the desire to
maintain Australia as a country of
European civilisation and of high mini-
mum wages and that we did not wish to
import racial problems of the kind
nr" Ricans
T West Indians.
ex P* ainin g facts it could tell how
P ieser, t policies operate: how many
Asians come to Australia, why they come,
what classes of people they are, and so
forth. No one could suggest that the
stability of our society, our cultural
pattern or our economic standards are
threatened by the present trickle of
Asians. Having by experiment estab-
lished this fact we might even be able
to make a public policy of it. And that
would clear away a lot of bad air.
Confinuing to Live
HThe usual thing was to laugh when we
•*- read last week’s reports that Ameri-
cans can now buy Family Radiation
Measurement Kits for $24.95, Survival
Kits (food, water, plastic coverings,
candles, games, canned heat, etc.) for
$79.50, do-it-yourself basement Shelters
for $7OO, and ready-for-use backyard
Shelters at $lOOO. Yet is taking precau-
tions against a possible catastrophe
merely funny? Whether the precautions
are adequate is another thing; but the
ability to survive and the ingenuity,
determination, energy and optimism it
entails is not usually considered to be a
purely comic topic ; it is sometimes taken
to be a distinguishing characteristic of
the human race. Perhaps we no longer
recognise it when we see it.
Even the equipment advertised is not
all that ridiculous. The radiation
measurement kits work, the survival kits
seemed to provide what was needed, and
although the shelters might not work in
some parts of a devastated zone, they
would probably be useful in the marginal
areas, which would mean most of the
zone. Of course, compared with the
familiar objects of one’s ordinary life the
kind of things you need around you to
attempt to survive in a nuclear war may
seem a bit ridiculous in that they are
unusual; but the nuclear weapons that
may make them necessary are also un-
usual, and we don’t laugh at those. What
was so funny then? For one thing, this
was supposed to be an example of
Americans getting into a panic. That
Americans are .inferior human beings is
still a firm conviction of that part of the
decayed Right in Australia that acts as
if we were still a member of a mighty
British Empire run by the stoic and
experienced British race.
In fact, there is no British Empire, only
a predominantly neutralist Common-
wealth, and that part of the British race
still resident in the United Kingdom
could hardly be described as taking the
lead in the Western Alliance in a display
of either experience or stoicism.
In any case stoicism is no longer
enough, although it is still necessary.
“Backs to the wall” and “We can take
it” are useless slogans for survival in a
nuclear war in which —unless you are
sheltered —you just can’t take it. Noth-
ing would be right on that night. Of all
the nations on earth it will probably be
the Americans who have the prosperity,
the skills, the ingenuity and the drive to
make the first serious attempt to shelter
most of their people from the devasta-
tions of nuclear war.
/An the non-Communist Left, the
Americans are also taken to be in a
panic—an “anti-Russian” panic. The
prospects of nuclear war are taken to be
the prime responsibility of an American-
inspired “arms race,” caused by their
absurdly unsophisticated approach to the
Russians; just a little more love and
understanding, a concession here and
there and all this irrational tension
would disappear and we would have dis-
armament. Under these circumstances,
attempting to protect oneself is somehow
part of the “arms race.”
Even on the anti-Communist Left one
spares a smile for the naive Americans.
They are still addicted to their silly old-
fashioned consumer ethos, treating
nuclear-warfare protection as if it were a
brand of soap ; these things can only be
done by government planning, etc. The
fact that there is some government plan-
ning for nuclear-warfare protection can
be forgotten. After all, these American
consumer gadgets are advertised in the
kind of words you read in advertise-
ments: “Family Fallout Shelter,” “easy-
to-use,” “pocket-size,” “do-it-yourself.”
In fact, these are the very kind of
words in which one begins to suggest to
a community that there is at least some
hope of survival and it may be worth
trying. The consumer ethos is the very
ethos that might make it possible for a
nation to revolutionise itself sufficiently
to buy at least some security from
nuclear warfare. There are few con-
sumptions so tempting as continuing to
live.


THE ALMS RACE
We all know where charity begins, but where does it end?
By PATRICIA ROLFE
ENGLISH writer Katharine Whitehorn recently wrote
that contributing to charity in a welfare State sounded
like lending your horse to the London Transport be-
cause the buses don’t run on time. Almost any Aus-
tralian could feelingly switch that simile to the transport
in their own city or town, but is the comparison valid?
Australia has not gone as far as Britain and Scandi-
navia towards a welfare State, but we do have comprehensive
social services and a high standard of living. Shouldn t
these make charity obsolete? Wouldn’t it be better if the
State took over the whole thing? Don't the charities over-
lap, one appeal cancelling out another, the rattle of one
collection-box drowning the sound of a dozen others?
Don’t too many button-sellers make busy city-workers feel
like saying “No” to the whole lot?
Charity these days certainly seems to cover a multitude
of things. It embraces the high-pressure, big-business-style
work of the National Heart Foundation or the Cancer
Foundation, and also the country hospital auxiliary with a
weekly stall, a wooden bench covered with home-made
cakes, pin-cushions and tea-cosies, and with an annual
result of a few hundred pounds at most.
It runs from the lavish dinner to launch a new appeal
with a hundred prominent businessmen sitting over an
expensive meal for a couple of hours, or the gala perform-
ance when the bill of the dresses of the committeewomen
is probably greater than the final result for the charity,
rigth down to the cheerfully persistent Sally in the pub.
The outstretched palms reach in a never-ending line
from the national or international giants, such as the Red
Cross and Legacy, right down to, say, a small group of
housewives on the north side of Sydney who, by means of
selling cakes (mainly to each other) pay to keep an
aboriginal boy as a student at a secondary school.
A city worker may be assailed on an average of once a
day. Sometimeshe is approached at the point where he boards
his bus for the city and at the point where he leaves it.
Is it any wonder that people become proof against the
built-in smile of the compulsive button-seller and that inept
query: “Would you like a button?” Nobody LIKES
buttons. Caps covered with charity buttons had something
of a vogue among small boys at one time, but they are no
longer very chic even in those undiscriminating circles.
Last Friday-week in Sydney the Eventide Homes were
at the approach to the suburban stations. The Protestant
Children’s Homes were at the barrier. At the city stations
a battery of writhing and misshapen men and women in
wheel-chairs from the Civilian Maimed Association begged
for money to “Help us buy the tools” to enable them to earn
a living, instead of being a charge on the taxpayer as
pensioners. At lunch-time the Animal Welfare League had
infiltrated Pitt Street.
People like the Salvation Army collect generally once
a week at stations and wharves. And almost every suburb
has one earnest woman who carries on some appeal all on
her own (“Help Our Aborigines!” “Help Our Aged
Pensioners!”).
Last week the Camberwell Council in Victoria took a
stand. It turned down a request for a “door-knock” in the
municipality. One alderman said he believed this way of
raising money was “a mild form of blackmail.”
So long as we give private charities an open go, our
rising standards of living and increased social services make
things harder rather than easier for the charities.
When alcoholics died in gutters they cost only a
pauper’s funeral. But as soon as you pick a drunk up out of
the gutter he begins to cost you money. You have to find
him a bed, if only in an overnight shelter. He has to be fed
and given medical treatment. He has to have a suit so that
he can face the world, and when the time comes, face a
prospective employer. Then if he slides back into the'
gutter, all this has to be done all over again.
Miss Kate Ogilvie, who has been prominent in social
work in N.S.W. for many years, told a meeting of the
Family Welfare Bureau that there were two reasons why in
this prosperous age more people applied for help.
“The first reason is the many changes in social values,
economic and industrial, which are taking place in the
community,” she said. “Also the disturbances associated
with wars. Peoples’ confidence to know where they are
going and how they are going to get there is affected.
“But on the other hand people are well fed, well housed,
well educated and not grossly overworked. They are enter-
prising and respond well to advice which they are given.
They are intelligent and when they need help they get it and
they use it.”
We all know where charity begins, but where does it
end? In Sydney at present there is a committee working to
provide television sets for old-age pensioners. The commit-
tee works efficiently and gives generously, but the idea of
television sets for old-age pensioners might make the citizens
of some other countries —where an old-age pension would
be something to go on with —smile ironically.
No one, not even that omniscient body, the Common-
wealth Statistician, knows what Australians give to charity
each year. The Commonwealth Statistician has never
attempted an estimate. Although most charities publish
comprehensive balance-sheets and returns of income and
expenditure, a staff member at the Commonwealth Statis-
tician said the real difficulty would be to decide what was
a charity and what wasn’t.
Almost as varied as the good causes are the means of
raising money. One school of thought on fund-raising is
that the button-day and the collection-box have reached
saturation point, and that the new shape of charity is the
foundation.
The foundation works simply. There is a highly
organised campaign to raise a certain amount of money.


That money is then invested, probably in bonds, and the
foundation lives off the income. In most cases there are no
further appeals for some years, although few organisations
will turn down money freely offered.
The Cancer Appeal in Victoria raised enough money
to be able to say that it will make no further appeals for
funds for eight or nine years.
The National Heart campaign, organised this year on
a Commonwealth-wide basis, is another blueprint founda-
tion job.
The campaign, with Warren McDonald, the chairman
of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation, as its chair-
man, raised more than £2,000,000 in about six months.
The N.S.W. organiser, Mr G. R. Seligman, who came
from an insurance job to take on the organising, and who
plans, now the campaign is over, to go back to insurance,
said:
“The campaign was run as a business. The old way
of doing things was the collection-box and the tea-party.
The ‘cause’ was promoted by word of mouth . . . Mrs Smith
told Mrs Jones, and so on.
“But the old way isn’t good enough these days. Many
charities are in the red. Costs and liabilities keep rising. As
the population increases, so do the number who need help.
Everything the charities give away or provide is costlier,
but their machinery for collecting remains the same.
“The Heart Appeal set out to do a job, and now that
the job is finished the appeal packs up. The fund-raising
committees have been disbanded. We have set up a per-
manent foundation with Sir Patrick McGovern, the former
Taxation Commissioner, as secretary. There will be small,
permanent secretariats in each capital city, and if donations
are received the secretariats will take care of them.
“The fund will have between £2,000.000 and
£2,500,000 to invest. The income from this will keep the
foundation going for eight or nine years at least. In the
meantime we shan’t have to ask the public for any further
contributions.
“The thing about a short-term campaign is that it is
easier to get people to work for you. You get few refusals.
We had Mrs lan Jacoby as president of a committee. Now
she is a very busy woman who normally won’t join any
more committees, but she helped us because she knew it
was for only a few months—not something which would go
on year after year with endless committee-meetings and
endless functions to attend.
“With a short appeal you can get hold of big business-
men, like James N. Kirby, who headed the N.S.W. appeal
committee. They bring with them all the know-how of
business.
“Most of the money came from the door-knock we
organised. For this we had more than 45,000 volunteers,
who visited more than one million homes in N.S.W. alone
within a matter of hours.
“Our costs were down to perhaps four per cent, in
N.S.W. That is pretty exceptional. An average cost figure
might be around 10 per cent., but some charities might be
much higher.
“That is another thing about a short-term appeal. You
can borrow everything. We had rent-free premises, be-
cause they were only needed for a short time. We borrowed
typewriters and other office equipment, but you couldn’t get
anyone to give you that stuff.”
Mr Seligman’s arguments carry a lot of conviction, and
the heart appeal was a model of good and effective
organisation, but it wouldn’t take a mathematical genius
to work out with something like 10,000 charities registered
in N.S.W. alone, what capital would have to be raised to
allow all of them to live off their income for a decade.
The foundation is a good idea, but it is doubtful that
it will ever supplant the collection-box and the cup-cakes
on the street stall. As long as the charity-workers can get
even a trickle into the tin they will certainly flourish it
under the nose of the public.
Although the combination of high-pressure methods,
such as the door-knock and the old-style collecting probably
means that people are giving more to charity, it is doubtful
whether what people give keeps pace with rising costs. If,
in the old economics adage, costs go up in the lift while
wages go up the stairs, you could say that charity has to
crawl up the wall.
Some professional and non-professional social workers
have remedies for this.
One remedy is simple. “What we need is to switch to
decimal currency,” a social worker said. “In the old days
people bought a Is. button, now they buy a 2s. one, but if
you considered it in relation to the state of the basic wage,
the proportion given is now far less.
“Yet people won’t get around to paper money. They
won’t give 10s., and they don’t think of 4s. or ss. because
they are awkward sums to handle. What we need at the
moment is a coin equal to a crown or a dollar. That might
solve the problems facing half the charities.”
These days some charities have chronic deficits. The
Family Welfare Bureau in Sydney, which cannot release
any details of the cases it handles, and, consequently, can-
not get a great deal of publicity for its admirable work, is
one. Others, like the Red Cross, which have large capital
assets, may budget for a deficit one year but not have a great
deal of difficulty in getting out of the red the next.
Although many charities may have difficulty in fund-
raising. it is not generally because of a rigid attitude on
their part. Most have moved with the times. Many of them
now employ public-relations officers, and a big proportion
of the litter of paper which reaches the desk of the metro-
politan-paper news-editor each day comes from charities.
Many charities now have fund-raisers, that is, a salaried
person whose job is to raise money within the organisation
(not professional fund-raisers, which take a percentage of
what they raise, such as the Wells Organisation, which finds
most of its clients among the churches).
In recent years the art union has become a bigger


It APPOINTMEMT TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEtf
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS
JOHN D€WAR & SONS LTD., PERTH, SCOTLAND
DliWAlt’S
is the Scotch
WORLD FAMED FOR EXCELLENCE
it never varies
"1
mm
laip
&■
*** - ISgi *•“'
sm>
«>;
■ V -
• -. ■
jLdjJj
s Fine Scotch
of rare age
! v »„,, Distillers,
|i; j >F -*f Vjj
'S* £*«■>* ,
i 'p' ll - l f » >*v /j
. DiSTuicti mi>iQtr> IhO ‘Lpt ll ji
Uk iutD - M«IH<EI> 1N ?„ »‘ >|,el ‘
W COMMONWt*"-™ .^ai
The same delightful Whisky now in the
Internationally-known clear round bottle
/mwm
Hi
DW1478
with the convenient screw-on cap.
The proof is in the tasting
SIMPLY SAY:
Dewars
GUARANTEED WHOLLY DISTILLED,
BLENDED AND MATURED IN SCOTLAND
feature of fund-raising. Prizes have grown bigger and
failures have been more spectacular.
Art unions in N.S.W. have to be approved by the Chief
Secretary and figures are compiled by the Commonwealth
Statistician. Last year £972,413 was raised from 165 art
unions, but the expenditure involved was £646,663. It now
costs £2 to raise £l. Expenditure includes prize money,
commissions, wages and advertising costs. It appears with
art unions that more and more money has to be spent in
promoting them, so that eventually they become an entirely
unsatisfactory way of raising money for charity.
Many charities benefit from private legacies. If the
legacy is left in a certain way. or for a specific purpose, the
first thought of the charity may be: “Can we afford to accept
it?” For example, the Salvation Army was left the country
property of Winderradeen by Joseph Gill. The property was
put in the hands of managers and consistently lost money,
until finally it was sold.
From time to time a “community chest” is suggested
as means of simplifying appeals to the public. All appeals
would be for the community chest, and all charities could
dip into it. Last year the N.S.W. Opposition Leader. Mr
R. Askin. said that the Government should regulate the posi-
tion in regard to charitable appeals. An M.L.C., Asher
Joel, suggested that a community chest could handle all
charitable appeals, but he doubted that charities would
agree. And. he pointed out, if the public gave £1.000.000
a year, each charity would get only a little more than £lOO.
At present, several millions were subscribed to charity each
year.
If fund-raising becomes impossible for large numbers
of charities, would this justify the State “taking over the
lot”? Many charities receive subsidies these days from
either the Commonwealth or State social service depart-
ments. They can apply for capital loans for building
purposes. However, this leaves them with the problem of
meeting the running costs.
The Salvation Army, which comes as close as any
charity to the “facts of life.” feels that the State could not
really cope with all that is at present covered by private
charities.
The “Army’s” public relations officer in Sydney. Major
Nelson Dunster. pointed out that the “Army” still operates
in countries such as Sweden and the United Kingdom. In
Sweden the Salvation Army still runs shelters, homes for
inebriates, homes for old people, maternity hospitals and
does prison visiting.
“Social services run by the State can provide adequately
for old people.” Major Dunster said. “They can run hos-
pitals and medical services, but I think that where we will
always need the private welfare agency is for the alcoholic
and the unmarried mother. Where unpredictable human
emotions are involved, it is hard for the State to legislate
and. perhaps, impossible for Government agencies to act
successfully.”
However, some social workers feel that the big thing
about State-run social agencies is that the staff could be
adequately paid. “I am tired of seeing people battling along
on the basic wage or less when their whole work is helping
others.” one said. “If the State ran the social services people
who were prepared to serve humanity would be able to do
so and still live decently themselves.”
In the meantime we shall muddle along in the
old way. There is no doubt that many thousands of
people throughout Australia would fight tooth and nail
against anyone who tried to take away their right to help
others and the chance of being asked to supervise the tea-
urn at the annual fair. As long as there are people who
want to help those less fortunate than themselves —and as
long as there are committeewomen who want to give their
new hats and dresses an airing—charity will be with us.


i— ■ /a® iJF/JKa A


FLYING ON ONE WING
The decline and fall of Country Party conventions dates from 7958
By JOHN HIGGINS
Dr NOBLE
“Captured headlines"
WITH the Queensland Country Party's accession to
Government, it has become apparent that resolu-
tions passed at Country party conventions are
barely worth the paper on which they are written.
The crowning absurdity was reached at the Cairns conven-
tion this year. A successful resolution was unconstitu-
tionally withdrawn the day after it was passed because the
Premier said it had insulted a Liberal party Cabinet
Minister!
Administered by Dr Noble, it had been under heavy
fire for weeks. A ponderous and rather pointless series of
articles in the morning press had indicated that something
was wrong somewhere (no one quite knew where) with the
State’s free hospitalisation system. Government-dominated
hospital boards had retaliated by refusing the press access
to the full minutes of board meetings. The B.M.A. had
bought into the argument, and Dr Noble had defended his
administration with the same obstinacy as he had shown
in the concurrent Westbrook Boys' Home scandals.
The Country party convention reaction seemed innocu-
ous enough on the face of it. It merely passed a resolution
(Kl) urging the Government to appoint a select committee
to enquire into the hospital system “to ensure an improve-
ment in hospital facilities and administration.” the mem-
bership to consist of a Government member as chairman,
two from the 8.M.A., a member of the Royal Nursing
Federation and “a man versed in hospital administration.”
Premier Frank Nicklin yawned hugely and left the conven-
tion in the closing stages of the debate for another appoint-
ment. The resolution was passed after token resistance by
the member for Roma (Mr W. M. Ewan), a professional
politician with a reputation for coughing every time a
Cabinet Minister has a cold.
The storm broke next morning. Slightly bewildered
convention delegates found themselves being hysterically
lectured by the Premier for passing the resolution, which
he described by some peculiar reasoning as a challenge to
the State's free hospitalisation system. This, he declared, he
could not tolerate, and informed the convention that he had
the backing of all Country party Cabinet Ministers on the
issue.
The original resolution had been moved by Mr J.
Ingram, United Graziers’ Association industrial officer and
Lockyer district farmer, and a Miss Hawthorn. In the melee
that followed the Premier’s attack it was “resolved.”
according to the official minutes, that “Minute Kl be
recommitted to conference.” A Mrs Innes then moved,
seconded by a Mr Mulry, that “Kl” be withdrawn, and this
was carried.
The Premier meanwhile had announced that he had
been in touch with Dr Noble, who was flying to Cairns to
address the convention. A committee was dutifully
appointed “to discuss the question of hospitalisation” with
Dr Noble on his arrival. The following night Dr Noble
addressed the convention. At the conclusion Mr Ewan was
on his feet with a motion, seconded by Mr Mulry, moving
“a vote of confidence in the Government’s health and
hospital service administration under the Minister of Health
and Home Affairs, Dr Noble.” It was passed.
The joke (or tragedy, if you prefer it) was that a week
or so later Dr Noble captured front-page headlines with
the announcement of a special committee to enquire into
the hospital system. Membership was substantially as
recommended in the Country party’s “Kl” resolution. The
derisive laughter which swept State political circles after
this performance put the seal of futility on Country party
conventions. (Possibly it provided the Country party
executive with the “nerve” to buck the Liberals on the admis-
sion of Independent M.L.A. Jim Houghton to joint party
meetings. One more backdown would have been the last
straw for too many Country party camels.)
The procedures by which the “Kl” resolution was
disposed of and reversed were at variance with every
accepted standard of debate procedure. Experts on these
matters say that at the very best it would have been an
extremely dubious affair even if the original mover and
seconder had been responsible for the reversal motions, and
ii: every member present at the original motion was in
attendance for the subsequent motions.
JVTEITHER of these eventualities took place. Mr Ingram
angrily declined a request from Mr Ewan to move the
motion of confidence in Dr Noble.
Apart from the “legality” of it all. however, the fact
that a C.P. convention could so humiliate itself was proof
that four years of obeisance to political wing control had
robbed it of all claims to virility and self-respect.
Reaction from Country party rank-and-file members
to this situation has been so strong that moves are already
underfoot to form an additional wing within the party —a
Western Division which will insist on Central Council
representation, and will also insist on the carrying out of
policy objectives. Whether it eventuates or not. or whether
it will be swallowed up in a breakaway Country party group
is the present question in Queensland.
By and large, it seems that the only solution to the
Country party’s problems would be the abandonment of
annual conventions as policy-making instruments and their
replacement with a triennial policy convention on the lines
of the Queensland A.L.P. Decisions made at the triennial
conventions and expressed in public policy speeches would
then have to be enforced by the political wing at the threat
of a refusal to endorse members who repudiated these
decisions.
If that policy were in force today nearly every member
of the present Country Party Cabinet, including the Premier,
would find himself without party endorsement for the 1963
elections. It is a sobering thought for rank-and-file members
who can’t make out just what has gone wrong with their
brand new Government in this State.


AUSTRALIA
AND THE SIX
"The disposal of inevitable Western food surpluses
will be a joint problem for West Europe and the
free world"
From NEIL MeINNES in Paris
JOHN McEWEN
“Victimisation”
Australia’s reactions to the prospect of a bigger Common
Market, including Britain, have been made known —and
with force—in London and (via Accra) in other Common-
wealth capitals. It is only in recent weeks that they have
been advertised, by official statements and press reports, in
the Continental capitals, so that there is the opportunity to
collect semi-official comment on Australia's case in Common
Market circles. Unfortunately, that case has been presented
with so much exaggeration that, after the first shock has worn
off, it is being taken less seriously than it might deserve. Thus
Mr John McEwen, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for
Trade, declared in a lengthy statement to “Le Monde” that
Britain’s admission to the Common Market would be “a
tragedy” that would “hasten the complete collapse of the
whole edifice of economic and commercial relations of the
free world. ’ He classed Australia with the poor developing
countries who, he alleged, have been the “victims” of the
“import policies followed by the industrialised nations”- —as
though the deterioration in the terms of trade against primary
produce was due entirely to ill will and had nothing to do with
technological economies in raw material use or the substitution
of synthetics. Repeating the large threat about “the breakdown
of the whole economic structure of the free world.” the
Minister concluded on a sinister note by inviting Europeans to
meditate “the lesson of Cuba.”
The idea of a string of Fidel Castro's taking over in Can-
berra, Ottawa, Wellington and Pretoria if exports of grain and
dairy produce decline makes Europeans smile ; and if Mr
McEwen was referring to such a danger in India. Pakistan,
Malaya or Nigeria, one has to notice that those countries have
been infinitely less upset about Britain joining the Common
Market than have the white Dominions. Mr Morarji Desai's
calm remarks contrast with the alarm of Mr Harold Holt.
Is is not surprising that in reporting vehement Australian
reactions, Continental newspapers have seen fit to recall that
there will be Federal elections in the country before the end
of the year . . .
Australia’s recurrent trade deficits are noted with sym-
pathy, but it happens that the Common Market Six have a
good conscience about them. France, for example, has for
years been buying 18 times as much from Australia as she sold
her—a degree of bilateral unbalance that is perhaps unique
in world trade and which scarcely constitutes the “victimisa-
tion” Mr McEwen spoke of. Moreover, Continentals ascribe
such unbalance to Australian discrimination: import controls
and other forms of protection much more severe than any
imposed in Europe on Australian produce, Commonwealth
preference that advantages Britain, and a general pro-British
prejudice among Australian consumers that is only just begin-
ning to weaken to the benefit of Continental goods. Against
this background, catastrophism from Canberra about the Com-
mon Market threat to Australia is not taken seriously.
Exaggeration apart, officials in Brussels and Paris do not
deny a certain conflict of interest between Australia and the
Common Market.
Common Market statisticians reckon that the Australasian
sheep-worker earns £lOOO p.a., whereas the Continental
burger earns only £3OO, and that the process of equalisation
will go on for the next 70 years, during which time Europe
must continue to discriminate against Commonwealth pro-
ducers of temperate-zone foodstuffs. The danger of Castroism
in these latter countries, brandished by Mr McEwen, is
naturally less feared than a revival of the Pitchfork Movement
among discontented European peasants. Besides, the compari-
son between supported European farm prices and free-market
prices does not convince Continental officials as readily as one
might think, for they regard the latter as being as “unnatural”
as the former. Experimental proof of this, it is argued, was
administered lately when France was forced by the Algerian
drought into the international market for hard wheat—to find
that prices shot up from 30 N.F. per quintal to 65 N.F. when
a buyer appeared. This, say apologists, is typical of the
“exploitation” Europe would suffer if she really decided to ruin
her peasantry by leaving food production to the New World.
For what it is worth, it is a common opinion here that New
World producers (notably Australasians, North Americans and
Argentinians) throughout the first half of this century
“exploited” the devastation of European agriculture in two
world wars by recklessly extending their food acreages, and
that now when European farms have recovered, the New
World finds that it has overreached itself.
This little philosophy of history furnishes the grain of
salt with which Continentals take strident protests from Can-
berra or Washington about agricultural protectionism. What
is serious in it is the conviction that the recovery of European
agricultural production is irreversible and that further rapid
progress in productivity on European farms is assured for at
least a decade to come —at prices that, admittedly, are high
but which prosperous European industry can well afford to pay.
The white Dominions, it is stated flatly, just have to adjust
themselves to this situation, which would obtain whether or
not the Common Market existed. It is freely admitted that it
will lead to vast unsaleable surpluses throughout the Western
or advanced world, but then the fact that European food prices
are higher than Australasian or American will be less import-
ant than the fact that all Western prices are too high for the
hungry milliards of Asia and Africa. In other words, the dis-
posal of inevitable Western food surpluses will be a joint
problem for West Europe and the New World, and it cannot
be solved inside the white man's world, e.g., by trying to
guarantee Commonwealth markets in Britain or to extend
Australasian sales in the Common Market. The Common-
wealth, E.F.T.A., the Common Market and the U.S.A. are all
food-surplus and will be more so in 10 years ; no ingenious
combinations can alter this, and any such that Britain pro-
poses, on Australian urging, during her negotiat ons with
the Common Market will be rejected as short-sighted. It
would be more profitable (and Common Market authorities
say they arc ready for this) to begin discussing plans for a
world food bank, to pool all Western surpluses to the benefit
of developing countries.


KHRUSHCHEVS
STRATEGY ON BERLIN
The recognition of a puppet State disguised as a
sovereign republic would spread dismay in the
whole of Eastern Europe
By SALVADOR de MADARIAGA
A pepsimaniac?
The so-called Berlin crisis is confronting the powers that be
with issues that have no meaning whatever unless an ethical
criterion orientates them more firmly than is the case with mere
weathercocks. A certain press in certain nations seems
curiously smitten with a rush of so-called realism, of warnings
about the Germans having to learn the facts of life and about
the need to make concessions, in one word, about the advis-
ability of giving in to Mr Khrushchev particularly on what
constitutes his dearest wish, the recognition as a sovereign
State of the Eastern zone of Germany.
Must we then begin all over again reminding all and
sundry of the fact that the conflict is not about territory but
about freedom, and that therefore any concession that we may
have to grant the other side must under no account be made at
the expense of freedom? What would remain of our respect-
ability if we were to barter away the essential to gain the less
essential or possibly nothing at all? Briefly put. the idea being
trotted out by such unrealistic realists amounts to saying that
in order to save the freedom of two million Berliners we should
sell to Mr Khrushchev the freedom of 17 million Eastern
Germans. This is a foolish as well as a dishonorable proposal.
Of course it is claimed that no one likes it, but that it has
to be swallowed in order to avoid a world war. But the fact
is that the last person to want a war is Mr Khrushchev. He
knows very well that on the day the first shot was triggered in
Europe his European empire would set off an explosion which
not even his hundreds of divisions would be able to control,
since the likelihood is that many of his divisions would join
in the general revolt. Nor are the constant desertions of
Vopos across the Chinese Wall in Berlin providing much com-
fort to him on that score. Furthermore, no one has claimed
so far that the West should give in to Mr Khrushchev all
along the line in order to avoid a risk of war. The matter is
therefore merely a choice of the spot where the stand is to be
made ; and our own opinion is that such a stand should be
made precisely at the edge where freedom is threatened.
The strategy of the Red Tsar has been so clear that it
is a wonder why it should be misread. He made a series of
big noises in order to frighten the West ; but as soon as the
West was thoroughly frightened he began to seek feelers and
mediators, Fanfani, Reynaud, Spaak, to start a talk and get
away with his chief idea: recognition of the Eastern Zone.
Why should this be so important for him? Because the
recognition of the Eastern Zone, i.e., of a puppet State dis-
guised as a sovereign republic would spread dismay in the
whole of Eastern Europe. Every other Eastern European
people would know that the West had given up all idea of
its moral obligation to uphold at any rate the principle of the
freedom of the East of Europe; and that, oblivious to the
true nature of this conflict, which is not one of power but of
ideology, it was ready to sacrifice its flag—freedom for all —
for a few years, possibly months only, of peace for itself.
What is at stake, therefore, is the faith of the East of Europe
in the honor of the West, namely the most formidable barrier
against any Soviet aggression to extend Communism to the
rest of Europe.
Therefore, while the rights of the Western Powers in
Berlin are negotiable, the recognition either de facto or de
jure of the Eastern zone is not negotiable at all. What, then?
An impasse? By no means. The West should present to
Moscow a definite programme as a basis for an understanding,
if only because, if this programme is well chosen, it would put
the Soviet Union in a hopelessly wrong situation before the
eyes of the world. This programme would have to be based
on the absolute priority of freedom yet take a sufficient
account of the fears and susceptibilities of the Soviet Union,
whether real or feigned, to cleanse the West from any reproach
of intractability. Without in any way aiming at an exhaustive
description of such a programme, its essential outline might
be attempted:
The West would accept as genuine the Soviet Union fear
of a reunited Germany, and would declare itself ready to keep
at any rate for a number of years to be specified, two separate
German nations on the sine qua non condition that they would
both be equally free. This would mean that the West, includ-
ing the Federal Republic, would be ready o pay with an
adjournment of reunification the liberation of the Eastern
zone. The Eastern zone would be invited to hold a general
election under the supervision of a neutral garrison, Swedish
or Indian for instance ; and all contracting parties would agree
beforehand to recognise as sovereign whatever State would
emerge from this consultation.
Since this would imply the evacuation of the Eastern zone
by the Soviet Army, the Western Powers would declare them-
selves ready to a. similar and simultaneous evacuation of the
territory of the Federal Republic, though not of the remaining
European territory now garrisoned by Nato. Should the
Eastern zone after its liberation decide to remain outside the
Warsaw Pact, the Federal Republic would be allowed to remain
outside Nato.
Were the above conditions accepted by the Soviet Union,
there would be no reason why Berlin —the whole of it —should
not become the capital of Eastern Germany. Guarantees
would have to be given that the Eastern Germans would not
be allowed freely to vent their fury against the German Com-
munist Party.
In one word, a number of concessions wouH be offered on
the basis of freedom for the Eastern zone ; but none seem
decently possible without deadly risks of a moral betrayal if
the freedom of the Eastern zone is not first obtained from
the Soviet Union.


FORUM
WHAT'S WRONG
WITH PLANNING?
Policies when put into action are attacked by
sectional interests
IT is impossible to be too blunt about it. The standard of discussion in
Australia on Government economic planning is appalling. With some
“planning” is still a dirty word, as if the only kind of planning was the
siege socialism of the nineteen forties; with others “planning” is a private
possession (there is not other plan but theirs ). The “planners” themselves
( the Government and the semi-Government officials who make and imple-
ment policy ) have suffered a breakdown in communication; they know
what they mean, but they cannot always say it in English.
Yet all the problems we have dis-
cussed so far in this series of articles are
problems of planning. The obsession
with high money wages, lack of concern
about productivity, the desire for pro-
tection, the lack of innovation, the con-
cern for a static, immobile kind of full
employment, the lack of communication
between businessmen and “planners,” the
institutional weaknesses of trade unions,
taxation policies that inhibit capital invest-
ment, clashes between export and import
interests. Government control of risk
capital . . . these are the very stuff of
our economy and they are —along with
social welfare, stimulation of the primary
industries and “national development”—
pretty well the sum total of planning.
The administration is engaged in plan-
ning all the time. But not only to the
ordinary Australian but also to sup-
posedly sophisticated observers in the
business world, in the unions and among
the commentators it appears to be mov-
ing darkly and arbitrarily and it is
attacked as being a great deal more
stupid than it really is. Whatever the
faults or virtues of individual policies,
the various branches of the administra-
tion are almost the only institutions in
the country that think in terms of
national economic issues.*
Yet their policies, when put into action,
are attacked by sectional interests and
spoken of purely in sectional terms;
that, whether right or wrong, they are
national policies is obscured. There is
an old-fashioned ring about this kind
of discussion in Australia ; it can become
so silly that to enter it and speak of
general national issues, even in criticising
the administration, is to be accused of
being a Government apologist or a
socialist or an unscrupulous capitalist.
This is the third of a series of
six articles under the general
heading of “What’s wrong with
Australia?” The first two articles
were on Business and Unions, the
next three will be on Primary
Industry, National Development
and Education.
Why is this? As will be indicated
shortly, it is partly the administration’s
own fault. It is also the fault of four
sets of beliefs, two held by “the Right”
and two held by “the Left.”
PRESENT BELIEFS
HThe two most primitive beliefs first:
on the Right we have the “Adam
Smiths” who, in a cosseted and controlled
economy, go all capitalist when their self
interest is momentarily threatened and,
in the name of capitalism, defend what
is really planning by attacking some-
thing they call planning; on the Left we
have the “Karl Marxes” who, when faced
with planning, attack it as capitalism.
Thus an “Adam Smith” who made a for-
tune out of import controls will attack
credit restriction as “planning,” or a
“Karl Marx” who cheerfully accepts the
Arbitration Commission’s cost-of-liv : ng
adjustments as State control will attack
as “capitalism” the Government’s
attempts to damp-down the inflation
caused by the adjustments. “Adam
Smith” does not really believe in “pure
capitalism” (it would probably ruin
him) ; but ideologically this abstraction is
all he can fall back on. “Karl Marx”
does not really believe in “socialism”;
but he is damn well not going to believe
in anything else.
Of the other two beliefs there is the
Leftist concept of direct controls, and
the Rightist belief that you might do a
bit of planning, but you mustn’t talk
about it.
The kind of Leftist who believes exclu-
sively in controls restricts the word
“planning” to mean only this. He can
be more concerned with the forms of
planning, than with what is being planned.
His planning is a jealous monotheism:
his direct controls are not only con-
sidered better forms of planning than
any other ; they are the only true plan-
ning. His planning apparatus consists
of import controls, profit controls, price
controls, wage controls, capital-issue con-
trols, commodity controls . . . Logically,
the series is never-ending, because it
seems to be in the nature of economies
that, after a certain point, the more you
control them, the more you have to
control them.
This is not the place to argue against
this concept of planning, except to say
that its greatest weakness is that, as the
controls pile up and direction of detailed
affairs is taken v>ut of the hands of the
more expert and put into the Lands of
the less expert, problems are overcome
by abolishing them. To centralise the
running of an economy in great detail
is impossible, so there is a tendency to
simplify the economy. That seems to
us a poor way to run an economy. There
is no immediate possibility of this par-
ticular approach to planning returning to
Australia, but belief in it and talk about
it sets up the illusion that it is the only
form of planning. When the necessity to
divert resources to the export industries
and to national development is being dis-
cussed it is suggested that only control
Socialism can do the job ; even Right-
wingers sometimes take this view.
This belief is made even stronger by
the tentative theories put forward by the
present Right-wing alternative. This
attitude —and in our opinion properly—
is that broad economic and fiscal policies
are more efficient planning methods than
complicated and detailed direct controls.
This involves the use of taxation policy
(direct and indirect), long-term trade
agreements, loan policies, control of
interest rates and the volume of money,
and so on, but not a detailed direct con-
trol of the economy. The main thing
wrong with this policy is that it is not
co-ordinated, or even staled.
Those who know that the economy has
to be manipulated, and choose these
methods as the most efficient, are far too
modest about it. Their approach to plan-
ning is eminiscen, of the Victorian
approach to sex: it’s all right in its place,
but you mustn’t become expert at or
even talk about it, or —as far as possible
—think about it. The effects of this
kind of planning are economically,
socially and psychologically. It is creepy ;
it makes people feel ihey are working
* One can make two qualifications here:
some parts of the administration —the Depart-
ment of Labor is one—do not do this; and
some sectors of private enterprise (some of
the financial houses and big monopolies) do.


in the dark, the victim of blind economic
forces ; they have no knowledge of or
confidence in what is being done. It is
eonomically wasteful —factors of pro-
duction often just bump around and fluke
the right answer; unnecessary social
distress is caused ; and the main personal
reactions are confusion and resentment.
PRESENT PLANNING
There is an alternative to both direct
controls planning and “blind forces’’
planning. But before speaking up for
it we shall examine in a little detail the
present operations of economic planning
in Australia. Here we meet an imperfect
picture. But all the imperfections do not
matter. Overlapping, weak hierarchial
structure, and a multiplicity of “second
opinions’’ are not necessarily faults in
Government planning. Economists can
be victims of extraordinary obsessions
and planning the general shape of a
nation's economy is an act of extra-
ordinary difficulty; a certain confusion
may stimulate efficiency. Worse mistakes
might come from a know-all monolithic
structure than from a clash of opinion.
We shall consider the primary industry
organisations and the Department of
National Development in a later article.
Otherwise the main human factors in
forming economic policy in the Austra-
lian administration are the Cabinet, the
Treasury, the Department of Trade, the
Department of Labor, the Reserve and
Commonwealth Banks and the Arbitra-
tion Comission.
In all this the Treasury is supposed to
be central. Its leadership is highly quali-
fied and highly responsible, although
there is a gap between Treasury Top
Men and the less-skilled lower ranks of
its structure that sometimes makes its
performance less than its policy. By
its nature, however, the Treasury inclines
to be more selective in its interests than
its central position would suggest. It is
more concerned with the economic posi-
tion within the country than with trade.
Inflation, credit control, the circulation
of money and unemployment are the
kind of things it worries about most. It
has little direct relation with trade, or
indeed with business generally. In this
the Department of Trade acts as a
counterpoise ; it has many contacts with
businessmen and its very nature makes
it less concerned with the economic posi-
tion within the country than the job of
increasing exports relative to imports.
This division of interest between these
two departments can lead to clashes of
policy between them, to seeing the same
problem in different ways, or even to
interpreting the same answer to a problem
in different ways. The Department of
Trade largely tends towards direct control
methods, the Treasury towards indirect
fiscal measures; for example, the one
prefers import controls, the other credit
restriction. Although disinflation is in the
interests of both the internal economy
and the export industries, it is more likely
to be manipulated simply in the interests
of the internal economy since the
Treasury is running it ; the kind of diver-
sion of resources to the export industries
that the Department of Trade would link
with disinflation might not happen.
The Arbitration Commission proceeds
independently of these two bodies. Its
decisions might cause inflation and
damage the export industries, but neither
the Treasury nor the Department of
Trade can do anything about this except
pick up the pieces. The Department of
Labor acts less as a planning body than
as a rather stingy welfare agency and
a method of soft-soaping union leaders.
The Reserve and Commonwealth Banks
play a more constructive role. They
implement a lot of Treasury policy and
thereby become a clearing-house of ideas ;
they have to interpret the Treasury to
businessmen and businessmen to the
Treasury, perhaps to the advantage of
both. They provide a useful conservative
factor in internal planning ; they have to
smooth off the sharp edges of rough
policies to make them work. Their very
real concern with our balance-of-pay-
ments (as well as dealing with importers
and exporters they actually keep the
books) helps offset the Treasury’s selec-
tive concern with the internal economy.
All of this, combined with their fairly
independent position and the fact that
they have their own Research Depart-
ment perhaps gives them a rounded view
of economic problems in the administra-
tion and makes them an admirable
vehicle for a knowledgeable second
opinion on economic policy when one
is called for.
Here is the main apparatus of econo-
mic planning. The overlappings and
other inadequacies do not necessarily
matter: what does matter is that the
plan itself —or even the possibility of
having one —is missing. This delicately
balanced aparatus is a reacting device:
it reacts when things go wrong and tries
to put them right ; but there is very little
that is creative and positive about it.
This is not an institutional fault. It is
a fault in our ideology. You
could put these various organisa-
tions into unified action (or in
the case of the Arbitration
Commission, out of action) —if
there was only some reason for
doing so.
WHAT CHANGES ARE
NEEDED?
HThe men involved in planning
at present are as good as
you are likely to get. To get on
with the job there could perhaps
be a greater emphasis on quality
in the lower ranks when new staff
is being recruited ; otherwise we could
work with what we have. But what is
needed is more political cohesion, closer
relation with the business community,
and the ability to communicate complex
situations in simple patriotic terms so
that both the wage-earners and business-
men whose lives are going to be affected
by Government planning can understand
the plans and feel associated with them.
If demands are going to be made on
everyone they become more acceptable
to sectional interests if they realise that
they are not the only ones being hit.
In administrative terms this means that
there should be an economic planning
sub-committee of Cabinet, an independ-
ent advisory council of businessmen and
academics, and a kind of public-relations
bureau to get the plans across.
The planning sub-committee of
Cabinet would consist of the Ministers
whose departments would do the plan-
ning. Its work would be to formulate
its main objectives so that they interlock,
then to seek advice from the expert
departments, the Commonwealth Bank
and the independent advisory council
about how the objectives can be effected ;
out of the conflicting advice it would
receive it would finally have to make up
its mind ; the details would then be
transmitted to those who had to carry
them out. After that the sub-committee
would continue to meet, to authorise
modifications in parts of the plan that
proved unworkable and, contrariwise, to
see that departmental or political expedi-
encies did not wreck the planning. Its
regular meetings would help to ensure
that responsible Ministers spoke more or
less with the same voice, and knew what
to say in the important business of get-
ting public opinion behind them in bring-,
ing about what would be a revolution in
the climate of opinion.
The independent advisory council
would be of the utmost importance.
Although the Departments of Trade and
Labor and the Commonwealth Bank,
since they have to put policies in action,
do not lack contact with businessmen
and understanding of tfieir practical
problems, the Treasury—which would
probably be central in all this —has no
immediate contact with the world of
practical affairs. Isolation in Canberra
(State Treasury officials are more closely
in touch) and the social isolation of intel-
lectuals in Government departments in
Australia (they don't meet similarly
minded intellectual friends in
business, because there aren’t
many) are mainly responsible
for this. Government officials,
particularly Treasury officials,
too often consider themselves to
be an isolated social class —
except perhaps for University
friends (who think of themselves
in the same way). Yet good
businessmen can quickly under-
stand a planner's mentality
because they are planners them-
selves ; they merely speak
another language. A permanent
cross-fertilisation between the
two sets of men who plan Australia’s
economy would be of permanent benefit
to both, and to the country, and it should
be carried out at many levels.
The kind of public-relations bureau
needed to get the plans across would be
hard to rig up. If it were staffed with
P.-R. spivs and journalists seeking super-
annuation benefits it would be useless.
There are very special talents required in
sucking out the essential taste of an
expert’s ramblings and verbally trans-


forming it into a simple, dramatic dish
that will whet the appetite of the intended
consumer. It requires a “simple” mind
that can seize on the essential truth in a
perplexity without distorting it. This
requires some knowledge of what the
expert is talking about ; above all, it
requires an almost moral belief in the
necessity and possibility of communi-
cation. It may involve “cynicism” (viz.,
expertise) in application, but never in
principle. Otherwise all one gets is a
certain amount of slick dressing-up with
familiar gimmicks that may attract a cer-
tain amount of tired and eventually
puzzled attention, but does not get the
message across.
WHAT KIND OF PLAN?
The simple basic policy which the plans
are to implement is something that
a group of Cabinet Ministers could whip
up after a good dinner. It would run
something like this:
It is now more than 20 years since
Australians believed they lived in a
stable world, protected from any final
danger by our membership of the then
British Empire. We now live in a part
of the world where an imperialist power
is determined to extend its influence by
military aggression, diplomatic black-
guarding and economic blackmail and
believes that the forces of history are
behind it. For the moment a number
of weak States to our north have sur-
vived these threats, although some may
be on their last legs and the strength and
morale of none of them is good. In this
most dangerous situation it is, for various
reasons, suicidal for us not to assure our-
selves of prosperous export industries (for
the good of our economy and to save
us from becoming dependent on enemies)
and a high rate of productivity which
will enable us to engage in rapid national
development and strategic spending.
These are immediate reasons for putting
our house in order. Even if they did not
exist it would be for the good of almost
all of us that the nation should become
more prosperous, even if this damaged the
sectional interests of a few.
For these reasons we should adopt a
comprehensive long-term plan to ensure
the following:
1. Continuous supply of capital, labor
and materials to the export industries,
the development industries and the
industries with high productivity.
2. Stabilisation of costs and prices within
the economy.
3. Permanent encouragement of real
capital investment in the right
places (not mere duplication of capital
investment), of innovation, good man-
agement and good industrial relations.
4. Then details could follow about en-
couragement of certain industries,
national development plans and
strategic spending.
How all of this is to be achieved by
economic and fiscal measures would lead
to considerable discussion ; but in theory
it is not ail that difficult to work out;
the kinds of manipulation required are
“Poor devil!”
all listed in textbooks. It would be with
the overall selling of the general policy
that the real difficulties would arise.
Here it would be essential that the
plan should be complete, long range and
positive. It should be complete so that
all sections of the community would
realise that they were in it, and why they
were in it ; it should be long range so
that anyone concerned could make his
own plans accordingly ; and it should be
positive to avoid economic inefficiency,
personal hardship and social friction.
For an example, assume that it was
considered necessary to direct resources
from the motor car industry. If this is
part of a complete plan, management
and labor at least know why they are
going to be hit and it would be harder
for them to arouse piecemeal dissatisfac-
tion; if they had to make adjustments
the rest of the community would know
why this was so. If they knew the plan
was permanent it would, at the worst,
mean that they could get their dismissals
over with quickly, without hoarding
labor, and make what other rearrange-
ments that were necessary without risk-
ing any public approblium; employees
would realise that they were permanently
out of the industry. At the best it might
mean that the industry might diversify
its activities in some way that fitted in with
future prospects. And if there were
positive aspects to the plan all these
changes would become less inefficient or
painful. Wage-earners who were to be
redeployed in the national interest would
not have to be penalised. They could
be paid a temporary redeployment allow-
ance to cover a period of re-training and
be financially helped if they had to change
homes. And a positive approach might
also help management diversify activity.
Co far all of this could be done, although
Point Three mentioned above would
be a hard one. There would be a lot of
muddle and mistakes, but life is like
that; there would be less of them than
under direct control planning. And de-
spite the many faults of management it
could probably be encouraged to co-
operate if it knew where it was supposed
to be going. Where the planning might
become impossible is in relation to the
unions. Not only because so much union
leadership has been asleep for so long,
although this would make co-operation
extremely hard to get. And not only
because of the interlocking of the unions
and the A.L.P. Both of these conserva-
tive forces would be hard to move. But
the main reason is that so long as Com-
munists are strong in the union move-
ment (and they control nearly half the
delegates to the A.C.T.U.), and so long
as non-Communists will not unite to
strangle their influence the Communists
set the pace in the unions. They would
disrupt these plans in the name of
“militancy” and the moderates would be
intimidated by them. Without the co-
operation of the union me ment the
whole thing would fall io bits for although
it is necessary that this kind of planning
depends on some coercion, it depends
fundamentally on final consent. And
to put it mildly, it is not in the interests
of Communist union officials to demon-
strate that planned capitalism is desirable
and possible.
Next week: What’s Wrong with the
Primary Industries?


LETTERS
WHAT’S WRONG WITH
BUSINESS?
Sir,
After reading the unsigned article
“What’s Wrong With Business?” in your
September 30 issue, I was tempted to
conclude that General Bullmoose had
entered journalism. To your credit, there
were a few points in the article which
General Bullmoose would have contested
—but not many.
He would have been delighted with
the bulk of the article, particularly where
you rubbished all this silly nonsense
about the evils of unemployment.
The article so reflected the Bullmoose
outlook that it completely overlooked
the central weakness of Australian busi-
ness —and the Australian economy as a
whole. To say the least, this was a disap-
pointing omission in an article which
claimed to be primarily concerned “with
questions related to our survival as a
nation.”
The central evil of the Australian
economy today is that it depends for its
stability on the high consumption of non-
essentials. It accepts as normal —and, in
fact, healthy—the practice of promoting
artificial demands in the interests of sell-
ing more goods. Nowadays, the promot-
ing and selling of many goods costs more
than the manufacture of them.
The colossal wastage of national energy
in salesmanship is a blot on our con-
science, particularly when viewed in the
context of our responsibilities for our
own national development and our
responsibilities to less-fortunate countries.
Surely the great problem for our
economists and businessmen to put their
minds to is this: How can we remove
by self-discipline the inherent inefficien-
cies of the free economy?
This is truly a question that concerns
our national survival. It may be
that these inefficiencies are inevitable in
a free economy. If they are, then the
free economy cannot survive.
As Mr Khrushchev said: “We will
bury you.”
Paul Ormonde
East Malvern (Victoria).
General Bullmoose, who is negotiating the
purchase of Upper Slobbovia, was not, available
for comment. —Editor, The Bulletin.
Sir,
The words used in your editorial of
.September 30 were not all that melo-
dramatic.
John Hay
Yass ( N.S.W. ).
The words referred to were: “The series [of
articles] is not all that concerned with how to
provide two refrigerators in every home or two
cars in every garage, but with the prospects of
the survival of our short experiment in
civilisation.”.—Editor, The Bulletin.
Sir,
Regrettably, much of what is written
in “What’s Wrong With Business?”
(Bulletin, September 30) is only too
true. However, I have reason to doubt
the statement that there is less emphasis
on trained management and manage-
ment recruitment policies here than in the
bigger industrialised countries, that is to
say, than in all of them.
The Principal of the Department of
Business Administration at the South
Australian Institute of Technology, while
agreeing that we are some way behind
the United States (where, for example,
one out of every five university degrees
awarded is in one facet or another of
Management or Business Administration),
stated on his return last year that he was
not so sure about the gap between Aus-
tralian and British Management. I feel
that Great Britain may be included
among the larger industrialised nations.
More accurate, perhaps, would be the
surmise that pro rata Australian industry
is awakening rapidly to the benefits to
be gained from sound training of its
management executives, indeed from
training at all levels.
What is probably nearer the truth is
that Australian industry seems loathe to
accept one of the principles of any busi-
ness, i.e., that the objective of a business
is not to make a profit, but to provide
a service or a commodity. When this is
achieved, and only then, does the reward
come into the picture.
Might I suggest that reading of “The
Business of Management” (reviewed
Bulletin, September 30) by everyone
from managing-director to office-boy via
shareholders would do much to put
management in its rightful place, and
business in its proper perspective.
BRYAN MELLONIE
Glen Osmond (South Australia).
Sir,
Till now one aspect of The Bulletin’s
policy has proven disappointing, to such
an extent that for some time I have been
seriously considering to terminate my
regular purchase of your magazine. How-
ever, the recent issue (September 30) gives
strong indication of a possible change,
a change touching directly this point of
contention.
Your editorial (September 30) under
the title of “What's Wrong with Aus-
tralia?” ostensibly urges this country
(Australia) to rid itself of an outworn and
outmoded insularity. This proclamation
is to be heartily endorsed and welcomed
as betokening a positive action in imple-
menting this policy in future publications.
For until now The Bulletin has, in its
self-appointed role as the organ of the
Australian people in the cultural and
social development of their country, been
fostering this very insularity that it now
condemns as inadequate and inadvisable
in the light of current world conditions.
While this sponsoring of a national spirit,
the preservation and cultivation of an
Australian ethos, has much to commend
it— and it cannot be denied that The
Bulletin has rendered a fine service in
this direction, it is still regrettable that
this has been been pursued at the expense
of a wider coverage of international
affairs.
R. MELVILLE
Fairfield (Victoria).
PLANNING UNEMPLOYMENT
Sir,
My article on “Unemployment in
Australia,” to which you refer in your
number of September 30, was written
before the introduction of the Federal
Budget.
As you know, token increases were
announced by the Treasurer in rates of
unemployment benefit. The maximum
weekly benefit for a man, wife and
family now obtainable is £7, rather than
£6 2s. 6d. In quoting the latter sum
from my article, you overlooked the sub-
sequent increase.
KEITH HANCOCK
University of Adelaide.
SEVEN AGAINST THIEVES
Sir,
Mr H. Katona (Bulletin, September
30) has a traditional “highbrow” approach
to Hollywood westerns. The last thing
to call “The Magnificent Seven” is a
“lousy” remake of “Seven Samurai.”
The point is, that the director (John
Sturges) realised the theme is not really
applicable to a western (although the
plot is). Paid gunmen, unlike Japanese
Samurai, are not acceptable as
noble, protective figures. However,
once this fact is accepted (and
forgotten) the audience is in for a whale
of a time. The characters are well played
and contrasted, with the exception of the
cliche Horst Bucholz part, and the
profuse gunfighting sequences are as
brilliantly choreographed as a Gene Kelly
dance scene.
Why does Mr Katona keep harping on
the fact that Bulletin critic Anton Vogt
never mentioned “Magnificent Seven” is
a remake of the Japanese “Seven
Samurai”? After all, the former film
is the one under review. Also, why
question Mr Vogt's length of experience
as a film critic? Mr Vogt needs nothing
but taste, a sheet of paper, and a type-
writer. Anyway, he is probably the best
film critic in Sydney.
BRUCE BERESFORD
Wentworthville (N.S.W.).
SAY TO ME, RONALD
Sir,
As Mrs Beare (Bulletin, September
30) has accused me of insulting Hal
Porter, perhaps you would permit me
the opportunity of replying to her
remarks.
If as Mrs Beare writes, Hal Porter is
insulted by my suggestion that his stories
should be translated for the benefit of
English-speaking readers, think then how
insulted poor Kersch and Saroyan must
feel when we find that in The Bulletin


of September 16, Josephine O’Leary says
that Porter’s writings are comparable to
their work.
Hal Porter’s work can be likened to
that of many of our modern painters,
who lack the ability to convey any sem-
blance of mood or emotion and who are
absolutely incapable of reproducing
beauty in its natural form. To disguise
this fact they produce a series of colored
blobs and lines and call it “creative
expression.”
Hal Porter, in my opinion, uses words
just as they use colored blobs. In actual
fact it is the readers of The Bulletin
who should feel insulted as it is obvious
that the literary editor considers our
intelligence is such that it is only worthy
of stories of the nature of “Say to Me,
Ronald.”
MERVYN J. RICHARDS
Lutwyche ( Queensland ).
FISHERS OF MEN
Sir,
Mr I. Verity (Bulletin, September 30)
has a very simple course before him. Go
back to England. If he still likes it there,
stay: if not, return to Australia and this
time, become an Australian.
I have known many English migrants
who bellyached their way through their
“two years’ sentence” and who could not
return quick enough to England and
home. Give them a few months and they
were back here again—this time to
become Australians, not Englishmen in
exile, and to accept our way of life with
pride.
Unfortunately, it is a common fault
for us to recall the good times we had
in the past and to completely overlook
the grim days when things were not too
good. 1 am sure that many of our
migrants, and not necessarily English,
reflect on the splendor of their native
country and forget the slums and tenement
houses from which they originated.
Mr Verity claims that Australians have
a “militant hatred for the English.” This
statement is only partly correct ; we have
a definite dislike —hatred is far too strong
a word —for those few English people
who have an inbred contempt for we
“Colonials and descendants of convicts”
and who are ignorant of our fine country
and have no wish to learn. On the other
hand we accept and welcome those who
wish to become Australians.
“Arrogance,” Mr Verity, is part of
the Englishman’s stock in trade? I
would never myself have believed this
to be true if I had not seen it personally
when I visited England. The English
could not bear to think of anything Aus-
tralian in any way other than inferior
and beneath notice. You inferred by
“self-criticism that ought to characterise
every nation” that the English were a
self-critical race —you were joking, surely.
I have very often found that people
who are continually being rudely “jostled”
in the streets are either carelessly not
looking where they are going, or are
arrogantly claiming a portion of the foot-
path as their own.
As a matter of interest, I am curious
to know why every Englishman and
woman who leaves England immediately
cultivates a garden party accent utterly
foreign to their normal county brogue.
Once again, Mr Verity, the remedy is
a simple one ; but don’t forget that if
you decide to take this course and do
return again to our country, you will
then become an Australian and as proud
of this land as we are.
W. R. FRAME
Potts Point ( N.S.W. ).
BLACK AGAINST WHITE ON A
GLOBAL WAR
Sir,
The article, “Black Against White on
a Global Board” (Bulletin, October 7),
in which your anonymous correspondent
from Melbourne attempts to smear the
Australian League of Rights and Sir
Raphael Cilento, is a real classic of its
kind.
Referring to a leaflet which he says the
Australian League of Rights is distribut-
ing, your correspondent writes, “Its
opening paragraph claims that the colored
migrants in Great Britain are responsible
for the alleged spread of sexual licence,
venereal disease and leprosy.” The leaflet
makes no “claims” whatever, but quotes
the well-known English writer Beverly
Nichols’s exposure of conditions in the
East End of London. The source of this
exposure, the “Sunday Despatch” of
March 5, is given. In this exposure,
Nichols quotes an Anglican vicar, the
Rev. Williamson, as stating how he saw
a group of his own schoolchildren stand-
ing with a group of colored adults watch-
ing a colored man having sexual
intercourse with a white girl in the street.
The leaflet states that “The Rev. William-
son made further statements as to public
exhibitions which are too shocking to
print in this pamphlet.”
Apart from the quotation from the
Beverly Nichols report, the leaflet also
gives several other quotations which your
correspondent suggests are examples of
“anti-semitism.” It is news to me that,
for example, Winston Churchill is “anti-
semitic.” If your correspondent believes
that the quotation from an article by
Churchill is false, let him say so in a
straightforward manner. And let him
deal with the other quotations in the same
way.
However, all this is relatively un-
important compared with the blatant mis-
representation of the League of Rights
Seminar, which your correspondent
infers that he attended. It is true that
the theme of the Seminar was “World
Revolution,” but to suggest it was
primarily concerned with “racialism” is
false. In the first paper, the Rev. Norman
Hill dealt with the question, “Has the
Christian Church Failed to Meet the
Subversion of Western Civilisation?”,
and there was only one passing reference
to race by Mr Hill. The paper was mainly
concerned with historical and philosophi-
cal issues. There was no reference what-
ever to race in my own paper, “The
Revolt Against Civilisation,” which
claimed that there are four main factors
in the development of a civilisation,
religion, the conception of private pro-
perty, kingship, and literature, and then
dealt with the attacks upon these factors.
I have no desire to speak for Sir
Raphael Cilento, but his paper did not
suggest in any way that the exploitation
of race is the only factor in the struggle
for the world. There are obviously many
other factors, as every intelligent person
knows. I would suggest that the experi-
ence and intelligence of Sir Raphael
would equal that of your correspondent.
ERIC D. BUTLER,
National Director
The Australian League of Rights
Victoria.
NEW GUINEA GIMMICK
Sir,
D’Arcy Ryan’s review of my book,
“Cannibals are Human” (Bulletin, Sep-
tember 30), contains serious misrepre-
sentations which call for a retraction and
apology. Declaring that my observations
are “not reliable,” he states that I have
made “tiny, trivial slips” (of which he
gives six examples, misquoting me by
only partially quoting me), and then adds,
with a reckless disregard of proof, that
there are “one or two of them on almost
every page, giving the general impression
of a total disregard for accuracy.” (My
italics.)
I have as much regard for accuracy
as D’Arcy Ryan, and probably more so.
His statement that “tiny, trivial slips”
constitute “a total disregard for accuracy”
is an offence against logic, but it becomes
preposterous when each and every one of
his attempted corrections of what he con-
siders my errors is disputable and demon-
strably wrong.
My statement (p. 119) that the men at
Mendi carried “heavy greenstone axes
slung through reed-woven girdles at the
back of the waist” is correct, and I added,
“A short strip of bark hung in front.”
Suppressing my reference to the bark part
of the girdle, D’Arcy Ryan informs your
readers, presumably from his own obser-
vations, that “the girdles are made of bark
and cane.” This information in no way
proves that my statement is false or care-
less. Some natives in the Highlands in
fact supported their greenstone axes with
woven weeds. The axes could scarcely
have been supported with bark. Your
reviewer may be quibbling on the use of
the word “woven.” I use it in its diction-
ary meaning.
My statement (p. 125) that “the majority
of the Highland natives were half-starved,
skinny, and withered, especially the
women,” was correct from my observa-
tion in 1952, before the area was brought
fully under control. D’Arcy Ryan mis-
quotes me by omitting the key words
“especially the women.” Many times in
my book, and even on that same page
125, I refer to the strong muscular devel-


opment of some of the men. He states
“They are short but muscular, well-pro-
portioned, and tough.” 1 have seen plenty
who are tall and thin, but I have also
seen many women who are half-starved,
skinny, and withered, and some men of
that description also.
My statement (p. 125) that a native,
named Kala, carried “a sheaf of bone-
pointed arrows hollowed out and filled
with poison made from decomposed
bodies and other matter which, when
sunk in the flesh of the enemy, caused
gangrenous wounds” is correct. D'Arcy
Ryan denies this with the simply false
assertion that “Mendi arrows are not
poisoned.” Does he believe that the
natives dip their filthy arrows in disinfec-
tant before shooting them at an enemy?
Hospital records show many cases of
natives treated for gangrenous and septic
wounds caused by arrows. If my critic
quibbles that the arrows are not deliber-
ately poisoned, why does he not take
that objection properly, instead of deny-
ing that the arrows are poisoned. L
described their effect, not their intention.
My statement (p. 127) that native
women carried “baskets full of taro, yam,
and sleeping piccaninny” is correct.
D'Arcy Ryan attempts to rebuke me
tersely: “Sweet-potato ; yams won't grow
in Mendi.” I have mentioned several
times in my book that sweet-potato is
an article of diet ; but the fact is that
yams do grow in Mendi. They take nine
months to mature instead of three. 1
have seen them growing there.
My statement (p. 127) "There are
hundreds of different groups living in
these highlands in separate villages . . .
they are all separate organisations but
each tribe is compact” is correct. D'Arcy
Ryan's attempted rebuke to me, "There
are no villages in this area,” is a quibble.
Some anthropologists refer to these groups
of dwellings as “long hamlets.” They are
not as compact as “villages” on the coast,
but nevertheless they are villages in the
ordinary or dictionary meaning of that
term. Moreover, thousands of natives
in the rough mountain country south of
Mendi do live in compact villages, and
fortified villages at that.
My statement (p. 128) that “Circum-
cision rites were being performed inside
a private enclosure” was necessarily not
based on personal observation, but on
what was told to me by government
officials and missionaries who had wit-
nessed these rites and treated wounds
from them. My statement applies not
oniy to male but to female circumcision.
Many responsible people can testify that
in various parts of Papua and New
Guinea efforts are being constantly made
to suppress these rites.
D'Arcy Ryan's statement that “none
of the people in the Southern Highlands
are. or ever have been cannibals” is as
misleading as every other correction that
he has attempted to make of my text. It
conceals my statement (p. 148) that
‘mostly the people kill for ritual pur-
poses—when, for example, they eat the
arm of a powerful man to gain his
courage and strength. But sometimes
they eat their enemies for food.” It also
conceals my statement (p. 198) that the
people of Tari “were not cannibals and
spoke with disgust of tribes who eat man.”
His definition of the “Southern High-
lands” may be a geographical quibble.
As recently as May, 1959. a patrol was
sent to the headwaters of the Purari to
suppress cannibalism. Does your re-
viewer claim that none of the people in
the mountains along the border of Papua
and New Guinea are, or ever have been,
cannibals? He would surely find it
difficult to prove a negative proposition,
when the affirmative has overwhelming
testimony to support it.
D’Arcy Ryan’s personal testimony is
restricted to a visit which he made to
Mendi recently, after that area had been
brought fully under control. He ignores
and suppresses the fact that much of my
observation was made on a patrol in 1952
into the uncontrolled mountainous area
between Mendi and Lake Kutubu.
1 take special exception to the con-
ciuding remark of D'Arcy Ryan’s review,
which is nothing less than an incitement
to the educated natives of Mendi to kill
and eat me. 1 risked being killed and
eaten when I patrolled into the uncon-
trolled area south of Mendi in 1952, and
T am not going to submit tamely to being
flayed alive now by a critic who attempts
to “roast" me.
Tf D'Arcy Ryan knows more about
New Guinea that I do, then let him write
a book of his own to show his superior
knowledge, instead of trying to “show off”
by trying to shoot down my book with
his poisoned arrows.
Australian taxpayers, who spend £25
million a year on developing Papua and
New Guinea, are entitled to receive in-
formation not only from anthropologists,
but also from Old Hands. Do you feel
justified in employing a professional
anthropologist to assassinate my book,
and to hold me up to ridicule merely
because I write from experience, and not
solely from textbook theory?
HELEN McLEOD
“Mendi,” Springwood (N.S.W.).
MOUNTAIN AND MOUSE
Sir,
Having had the opportunity to read
Laurence Collinson's play “The Zelda
Trio" before it was produced, and because
1 feel that the present production at The
Muse Theatre Club, Melbourne, is not
a good interpretation of the play. 1 must
strongly disagree with Mrs Madeline
Armstrong's final remarks in her review.
(Bulletin, September 30).
The script called for an austere and
simple set, and a considerable amount
of stage space. The characters are sup-
posed to enter and exit from a subtle
darkness surrounding the room, and not
through one clumsy, tiny door. Though
it is possible to admire the courage of
Mr Money, who directed and produced
this play, it is a great pity that the furnish-
ings, layout and space are rather ridicu-
lous.
The second act, as written, is not an
imitation of film techniques. In the script
there are no midway curtains or lengthy
blackouts, because the act is meant to
be continuous ; it depends on correct
lighting and music for its effects, neither
of which could be taken seriously in ‘he
present production.
Also, the ending of the second act has
been cut, though it would have made a
far more effective curtain than the present
one.
I feel that Mr Collinson is to be
admired for allowing such a stark amateur
to meddle with his script which is prob-
ably as imperfect as most new scripts.
Mr Collinson is a playwright who is try-
ing to do something beyond the natural-
ism current in Australian drama.
R. A. SIMPON
South Yarra {Victoria).


OUT and ABOUT
POLITICAL SCIENTIST
/ am Labor with my friends,
But I have means to serve all ends:
With my Fellow-Travelling neighbor
1 lean slightly left of Labor;
But with the boss, since l must live,
I tend to be Conservative.
Anton Vogt
One Man's Waratah Festival
/"\rganizers of Sydney’s Waratah
Festival claim that this year’s was
the most successful ever, that 1,000,000
people watched the procession and
400,000 people visited Hyde Park. Allow-
ing for the fact that a large proportion
of those who went to the park also came
to town on Saturday for the procession,
that left at least 600.000 Sydneysiders
for whom the festival meant only the
red and blue bunting dangling from the
new Lend Lease building at Circular
Quay or the potted shrubs amid the
confetti of torn tickets at the tollgates
of the bridge.
And then there was Lawrence Beck.
Beck is a 22-year-old sculpture student
who entered, or who tried to enter, in
the art contest connected with the
festival. Beck, who is a yoga devotee,
and a student of Lyndon Dadswell, did
a semi-abstract piece, weighing about
200 pounds, called “Portrait of a Man
who didn't do Yoga.” However, the
judges refused to allow it to be shown.
“It wouldn’t do for a public place,”
the organiser of the festival, Asher Joel,
told Beck. “It’s too naturalistic.” So
Beck had to retrieve his piece from the
gardener’s shed in the park, pausing
meanwhile to contemplate the entirely
naturalistic statues of the Archibald
fountain,hard by. On reflection, he
decided that the men and women of
the Archibald must look to the judges
as if they do do yoga.
Normal Wear and Tear
The plastics firm, Monsanto, reporting
on the effects of wear and tear on a
new-style, all-plastic houses, state: “In
three years, the home has had more than
normal household wear, having been
visited by six million people.”
Empire - building Ambulances
TVTothing will convince a large section
of Launceston people that they aren’t
the bunnies in a smart piece of public-
service empire-building associated with
the extension of the Ambulance Commis-
sion activities to Northern Tasmania. For
more than 40 years, Northern Tasmania’s
ambulance services have been associated
with the Launceston Fire Brigade.
Vehicles were housed at the fire station,
an 5L fi remen ra n some of them.
The equally independent regional ser-
vice in .Southern Tasmania has lately en-
countered what Alderman Mabel Miller,
M.H.A., termed “extreme financial diffi-
cullies.”
Now a bill has been passed to set up an
ambulance commission for the whole
State. The new commission will cost
Launceston £7OOO a year, where the
Northern Ambulance Board had financed
itself by charges to patients and, in later
years a grant
Launceston ' City Council heatedly
opposed extension of the new commis-
sion’s activities to the north, but in
January last year the Northern Ambu-
lance Board received from the Fire
Brigades Commission a formal notice to
quit the Launceston fire station,
“This ” said T G Tnhnstnn the ehair-
man of’the Northern Ambulance Board,
“is a shrewd move to force ratepayers
to p a y j or a serv ice which should be the
responsibility of the Health Department,
The Ambulance Commission would never
have been created if Hobart had not had
suc h a wre tched service.”
», . . c
Honesty IS an expensive
Po/fC y
_ . , .
ATothing has been heaid of the subur-
ban business sampler for some
weeks, since the people running them in
Sydney closed down their offices in a
hurry.
However, it appears that some small
shopkeepers, who valiantly tried to honor
“ and don't come that ‘Proud emblem of a great nation routine ."


UYsi
HTS
PROOf
100% Australian-
made from Aus-
tralian Material
LYSAGHT’S
ESTABLISHED 1884
WIRE NETTING • FENCING WIRE • BARBED WIRE
WIRE NAILS
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER
in every Roll of Netting
2
fm
m
ZINC OXIDE
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
IYSAGHT BROS. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road,
Five Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
what they felt were their obligations, are
not yet out of the wood. In some cases
2500 vouchers for free goods or services
were issued when the shop had signed
a contract for only 50.
“Until we finally closed down on the
samplers at the suggestion of the police
they cost us £1000," said the owner of
a suburban dry-cleaning shop. “We were
working from 7.30 a.m. until 11 p.m.
and we had to put on extra labor, at a
cost of £25 a week, to cope with the
work.
“One morning I came down in my
dressing-gown from our flat above the
shop at 7 a.m. to pick up the paper.
Customers with bundles of dry-cleaning
were banging on the door. I had to
stand in my dressing-gown with my hair
in pins and write out the dockets.
“All this would have been bad enough,
but the abuse from people after we
stopped taking the samplers was frighten-
ing. I think some people gathered up
bundles of the booklets after the sampler
office closed down. We had people
coming in here with as many as six
books, each with four dockets in our
name.”
Interstate Rivalries
Adelaide is unlikely to gain official
status as the third largest city in
Australia because the metropolitan area
has not been extended to cover outlying
subdivisions which have grown rapidly
since the war.
Latest figures issued by the Common-
wealth Statistician show Adelaide's popu-
lation of 587,656 to be 32,465 behind
Brisbane's.
]f Elizabeth and Salisbury were in-
cluded in the Adelaide metropolitan total,
Adelaide's population would exceed
Brisbane’s 620,121 by 201.
The Brisbane Census area of 246,400
acres is almost. 24 times Adelaide's
102,881 acres and it is still being
increased. Adelaide's Census area has
not been increased since 1911 when the
Commonwealth took over Census respon-
sibilities from the States.
Salisbury-Elizabeth is separated from
Adelaide's northern suburbs by a “green
belt" which consists of the abattoirs
paddocks and Parafield airfield.
The Government is unlikely to legis-
late to enlarge the metropolitan area if
only because it would add to the Oppo-
sition’s case for decentralisation of
industry and a redivision of the State's
electoral boundaries.
The metropolitan area, as at present
constituted, elects one-third of the
Assembly members, and the country, with
one-third of the State's population, elects
two-thirds.
A.L.P. members claim that is why Sir
Thomas Playford has been in the saddle
for so long.
A fascinating point was raised at the
recent Federal police congress in
Canberra. When the Canberra artificial
lakes scheme is finished, perhaps in two
years, 10 water police will have to be
added to the force there.
That Was Australia
The combo (Combo Australis) is to
be found anywhere between Burketown
and Broome. There are many species
of combos, but they may justly be
divided into two classes. Class I. has
no home but the bush, scorns the yoke
of servitude, and obeys no laws, not
even Nature's. Brumby-trappers, buffalo-
shooters, gold-fossickers, copper-gougers
and tin-sera tchers are to be found in
this class. The brumby-trapping combo
generally has a “turn-out,” two or three
saddle-hacks, and some pack-horses. He
mostly woos his lady after the fashion
of (he old raiders of the Scottish border.
A few buy their brides, the same as folk
in civilised countries, but these are in a
minority and are generally henpecked. A
trip once, maybe twice, a year to some
settlement like Pine Creek or Borroloola,
is the extent of his experience of civili-
sation. Class 11., the wages combo, is
an altogether different type. He mostly
works on cattle or sheep stations, or
drives a team on the roads. Sometimes
he has a couple of horses, but generally
he travels by boot. Once camped near
a couple of these combos near Fitzroy
Crossing. A feeling of coldness was notice-
able in the publican, a sign that their
spree was tapering off. They started
discussing jobs. “Hear they want a
man at Gol-Lol,” I said. “Aw, yes,
but the boss keeps all the young gins
’round the house.” Gol-Lol was turned-
down, the boss evidently being a fellow-
combo and a monopolist. “They’re put-
ting on men at Ballawarry.” “Yes,”
interestedly, “I was up there one year.
Gins not bad there. But wages is not
too good; tucker either.” Ballawarry
held over for further consideration. I
happened to pass through Ballawarry a
few weeks later, and saw the boss des-
patching four white men to yard-build-
ing in a distant part of the run. After
the usual amount of profanity the dray
was loaded, and the boss turned to the
young fellow in charge of the party.
“Well, how many women are you going
to take?” “Oh,” said the young chap
shamefacedly, “I don't want any women.”
“Nonsense,” said the boss impatiently.
“Here Judy, Nellie, Maggie, Polly, you
go out alonga this one white fella.”
Turning to me, as the cavalcade with the
hastily-selected brides moved off, he said:
“They’re handy about the camp in the
bush. And, besides, they keep the men
more contented.” Which they do.
— “Bulletin,” December 19, 1912.
In the bad old days, a N.SAV. squatter
sacked his housekeeper and her husband.
The pair journeyed to town and laid an
information against their former em-
ployer, charging him with the murder of
a black. Squatter was arrested on his way
to town, charged, and admitted to bail.
Same night two of his bosom pals set
out for the station. Arrrived there they
disinterred some bones from a two-year-
old grave and replaced them with the
skeleton of a kangaroo. They were just
in time, for the police were on the scene
soon after they left. When the case came
on there was no corroborative evidence,
and accused was discharged “without a
stain, etc.” but it had been a narrow
escape.— “ Bulletin”, May 13, 1899.


TRAVEL
Ceylon from a Luggage - rack
Colombo is where the Plan comes from.
It is the capital of Ceylon. Ceylon
is the country where bus conductors
carry small change in their ears.
On the Young Men’s Buddhist Asso-
ciation wall somebody has written “Burn
Sirima Bandaranaike, P.M.” with a tar
brush in English, Tamil and Sinhalese.
The Tamil has been scrawled out by
some vigilant Ceylon citizen. This is be-
cause Ceylon has a language problem.
It is also under emergency regulations
(has been for several months). One
gathers that politics-wise, Ceylon is a
mess.
Non-pol itics-wise, it took me more
than nine years and 65 countries to get
to Ceylon. In ’53 I was 17 and in Bom-
bay. Ford’s of India (who had just been
given notice to get out) arranged a lift for
me in one of the last convoys of new
Cciombo-bound cars. The driver didn't
speak English. I went to Agra by mis-
take. where I saw the Taj Mahal by
moonlight and “Gone With the Wind”
again
in '56 I was 20 and actually aboard
the Orsova steaming from Sydney to
Ceylon. But somebody snafued in Suez
and I ended up working for the State
Government Insurance office, Western
Australia. (They opened a new building
in Pe r th and gave all the employees a
china ashtray.)
In '57 I was 21 and in "Bangkok, head-
ing south-west to Ceylon. But the
Government fell and the British Embassy
said. “Flee for your life,” and 1 ended
up in Shanghai by mistake. (Without a
visa.)
But 1961 —I made it!
My first day in Ceylon was spent wait-
ing to see the- editor of the Ceylon
“Causerie” magazine, a cautious monthly
somewhere between Cap'n Cuffs and the
Adelaide.“ Chronicle.” I looked through
several back numbers while 1 waited
and came to the conclusion that the
“Causerie” needed a shot in the arm —-
ME!
Sinhalese names do not come trippingly
to the tongue, so when 1 went in 1 said,
“Hi!” opened my scrapbook and went
into a spiel. When I left the editor was
dazed, and I had talked him into com-
missioning an article entitled “I Saw
Ceylon on Rupees 150”—-and HE was
supplying the rupees 150 (about £l5).
I did, too.
I was lying on my stomach in the Rat-
napura River looking for star sapphires
when Hector (who had given me my first
lift and whose real name was Vijeya-
goonewardene) said, “The Catholics are
undermining the Perahera. Last August
full moon,” he said, “they incited the
elephants to rampage. It was terrible. It
rained, too.”
Hector knew someone who knew some-
one in the Government who knew that
THIS was the real reason behind the
nationalisation of all the Catholic schools
in Ceylon a short time later. Ceylon is a
mish-mash of religious beliefs. Here
Buddhists, Hindus, Moslems, Christians,
Catholics and others live side by side in
blissful disharmony.
In Ceylon the word is “Drinka Extra
Cuppa Tea-a Day.” Up-country and
down-country you can't see the bushes
for tea leaves. Anyone attempting to
import an espresso machine would be
promptly tried and shot for treason.
Tea estates are run by Scotsmen, left
over from the Raj. The Scotsman at
the Wewelwatte tea estate apologised as
he showed us over the factory. “It’s not
good tea. At best it’s undrinkable. But
not to worry. We export it to the Middle
East. They like the flavor of the copper
sulphate we spray on the blister blight.”
The 1000-acre Glenanore Estate prob-
ably produces the finest Ceylon tea in
the world. The assistant superintendent
and his wife Sylvia are secret Nescafe
drinkers. When I left they gave me 31b.
of best Orange Pekoe Fannings. (I sold
it to a Colombo hotel for 10 rupees, 50
cents.) -
Kandy is dandy (but Bambalapitiya is
prettiya). Kandy is also Ceylon head-
quarters for full-moon peraheras. They
had one on Poson in July—the anni-
versary of the first conversion to
Buddhism of a Ceylonese king. They
have one every full moon. Everything
closes and everyone lies down.
I liked the story of the Englishman,
the American and the Sinhalese who flew
to the moon. The Englishman built
roads, railways and a bandstand. The
American built a skyscraper, a bank and
a twice-lifesize copy of the Parthenon.
The Ceylonese lay happily on his back
saying, “Full moon, full moon . . . .”
A perahera is elephants, priests, Kand-
yan dancers and one (only) full moon.
They peraher round the Temple of the
Tooth Square (right opposite a dental
surgery) and nobody pays very much
attention. It is all very gay and the
streets are littered with tourists with flash
cameras.
The Kandyan dancers are very photo-
genic. Their dance is a basic bent-knee
quickstep.
After tea, Ceylon is famous for its
ruined cities. These are Anuradhapura,
Polonnaruwa, Sigirya, Dambulla and
sometimes Mihintale. They are very
photogenic, too, and are also littered with
tourists with cameras and sore feet. They
are very, very authentic. Even Sinhalese
people visit them.
Jaffna is way out, man. About 100
miles way out, and everyone told me it
was hideous and that l"d hate it. That’s
why I went. I felt it might be restful to
visit somewhere that was NOT photo-
genic.
It was particularly interesting for its
curfew (10 p.m. till 4 a.m.), and particu-
larly inconvenient, as the militia have
taken over all the rest houses. I stayed
with a British bank agent who was a
Peter Wildeblood fan and kept dachs-
hunds and a servant boy named Michael.
He was very disturbed about Sirima.
She had just imposed a foreign residents’
tax (£4O p.a.), and he was taking it per-
sonally.
Ninety per cent, of Jaffna's population


are Tamils from South India. They do
not want to speak Sinhalese. They dci’t.
Sirima has declared Sinhalese the
national language. The Tamils are
furious. All Government and official
letters are being sent out in Sinhalese
and nobody can read them. They all
have to pay fines, and the Government
is making quite a lot of money.
I hitchhiked out of Jaffna in an army
transport with 12 Sinhalese soldiers in
Robin Hood hats. They were jaded after
three months of Tamil bashing, terroris-
ing and committing atrocities. (They
were on their way to Colombo for medi-
cals.)
Talaimannar is the jumping-off spot
for South India (in a ferry called Irwin).
It’s a sort of Marble-Bar-on-Sea. It was
here that I completed my story for the
“Causerie,” posted it off with one of my
last six rupees, spent more on curried
dried shrimps and rice and my last 3|
on the third-class ticket to India, 20 miles
away.
I met two middle-aged American
tourists on the boat (in the first-class
refreshment room, non - vegetarian).
“We’re on a package tour,” Zelda gushed,
“and they’re just wonderful. In Noo
York you just pay the travel agent
$5OOO and then put your feet up and
ree-lax. Everything’s done for you—
planes, boats, cars, hotels, visas, guides
. . . no worries at all. Why, sometimes
you don’t even know where you are!
This is Vietnam, isn’t it, Henry?”
DON WHITE
Feiffer
1 U 96 V TO
% MM
ATHC£Ti C -
A MOIL
OF
WH/TH f
eUT CMC M C0N60'
Cftm Ijjm If 5C5MCQ.
THAT MJAi? 60A4 iN^VITA&t^.
mm Wfe startup &owe-
IM6 HP AMP r HAP TP
<5A/£ UP R6AP/M6 TH/T
PAP££6 AMP C& 61 &*>&'
eor excepT. fop m Wtf i
*>mu im ppctm
6000 <b\\m ' AMP TtfPM
camp tht lko tian
cm is. it sfenep that
tOAR (MAS INEVITABLE
HH H5AR/M6 STARTUP
6PTHeRlM6 HP AMP 1 HAP
TO 6IVP UP MSTCWIMO
TO RAP/O lOPWO AMP OPT
A HEARING A/P.
Bur OUftlOe OF BUMPIW6 IN)T<9
THINK# AW njev££ Quire
i<rMOWIN)6 WHAT WAS 60(06
ow i was cnu in) FAißiy
600 C SHAPE. AW THEN)
CAME THE BORWN
MM BACK CAVE OUT. MM
ST6MACH TURWV SOVR. \
a w i veteuopep
MI6RAINE.
THEM I HEARP
SOMEWHERE
THAT CRITICS
WERE ATTACH
tM6 AMERICAN)
MOUTH FOR
BEIMS cur
OF SHAPE - i
I CAW'T c,U -
I CAM'T HEAR
I caut breathe -
I camt stand-
AMP r PPM’T
lUAMT AM Mf HI MS
MERE THAN) TP
60 JfMTP A t
fAUOOT SHEITERI
AMP VANISH- I
WHAT UO THEM
mean out Of
SHAPE ? I
UPON MMSECE
AS. THE MAM OF
the future ■
FOR THE CONSUMER
"Don't Sell Houses
Sell 'Dream' Homes"
Mr Kenneth Begley, a senior account
executive with advertising agency,
J. Walter Thompson, confidently predicts
that within the next five years the build-
ing industry in Australia will undergo the
same sort of major transformation that
food has undergone in the past five years.
Mr Begley said he believed this change
was just beginning when the credit
squeeze came However, he felt that
things should soon take up where they
left off a year ago.
“What will happen will be that build-
ing will be taken out of the control of
the man in overalls and be put in the
hands of the man in the business suit,”
Mr Begley told an audience at the Sydney
Building Information Centre. Mr Begley
was one of the speakers at a seminar on
the marketing of building materials.
“Many of the men who are reshaping
the food industry have never worn a
grocer’s apron or stood behind a counter,”
Mr Begley said, “but they are employing
the techniques of self-service, mass-
display, and the most modern facilities,
backed by vast funds, to capture a major
share of the nation’s food spending.
“Many of the long-established and
smaller food stores have had to rise to
meet this threat to their business by join-
ing forces, and employing the same
modern methods ; n order to survive,
“The home building industry would
perhaps be wise to assume that it may
undergo something of the same rapid
change. We shall probably see increased
use of new materials, such as aluminium,
and mass-production, combined with
mass-selling by professional marketing
men.”
Mr Begley thinks we may see great
development in home-remodelling, which
has grown in the United States from 10
billion dollars to 20 billion dollars in
five years.
“The slogan adopted in America is ‘a
new home at the old address,’ ” Mr
Begley said. “When you realise that for
every new home built in Australia in 1960
there were about 20 already standing, and
many of them in need of modernising,
some idea of the local potential begins
to form.
“The owners of these homes are per-
suaded, by organised marketing and


advertising, to buy new cars, furniture
and appliances, yet there is little effort
as yet to sell them on remodelling or
modernising homes. It will come!”
Mr Begley believes that home building
will begin to parallel food marketing in
the establishment of brand names. At
present few building materials are adver-
tised in the “consumer” press or are
asked for by name by people building
new homes. Mr Begley sees a day when,
for example, people will ask for So-and-
so’s bricks, hardboard or window-frames,
in the same way that they today choose
a certain brand of soap, breakfast-food
or beer.
Mr Begley said another change would
be in the use of new materials. Builders
who had trained as carpenters, and were
used to thinking in terms of wood, and
using wood, would have to learn to use
such materials as aluminium. Aluminium,
he said, was being used extensively for
major construction work, and would even-
tually come down to home building on
a large scale.
Mr Begley said he had read in an
American magazine that 95 per cent, of
U.S. homeseekers turn to magazines, 60
per cent, to plan books, 49 per cent, to
manufacturers’ brochures and five per
cent, to local architects. Australians
probably followed much the same pattern,
he said.
He said that American builders were
trying to make it as easy and pleasant
to buy a house as it is to buy a car. The
builders have used research to discover
the things that worry and confuse home-
seekers. Blueprints were a good example.
Very few people can visualise a home
from a blueprint so there was a tendency
in America to use models, or even full-
size mock-ups of rooms or sections of
home construction.
How does Mr Begley, as an advertising
man, feel that the building trade should
go about “selling” houses?
To begin with, Mr Begley has a ready-
made slogan—“ Don't let’s sell houses,
let’s sell ‘dream’ homes.”
“Many builders, who offer homes for
sale in a finished state as an empty build-
ing standing on a bare lot could learn
from the makers of toilet soaps.” said
Mr Begley, who used to be with Colgate-
Palmolive.
“A toilet soap manufacturer in these
days of modern selling doesn't put a
plain wrapper around his soap and label
it ‘Soap —for washing the face and body.'
“He employs top-flight artists and
advertising people to enclose his product
in gleaming foil, delicately colored and
tastefully lettered to convey the story
that ‘this is no ordinary soap, it contains
special beauty oils and lavish creams to
pamper your skin, bringing new, youthful
loveliness, etc., etc.’
“He's not only selling soap, he's selling
beauty and youthful glamor, the stuff
that every woman's dreams are made of!
“So it should be with houses, because
the building of a house is the most im-
portant matter in people’s lives.”
PATRICIA ROLFE
ABORIGINALITIES
The "Sweet Life "
in the Kimberleys
T am leaving Katherine, and the bitumen
A road, for my journey across the
Kimberleys. The road, which is far
better than I had expected, has made me
presume too much. Levelling out from
the ranges near the Victoria River, 1
meet my first deep bull-dust. The little
car plunges, drops into it and a thick
wave of bull-dust surges up across the
windscreen. I come to a halt and. for a
minute or two, can see nothing through
the fine, grey dust cloud which seems to
hang, motionless, in the air.
Now 1 have learned to go slowly
through the long stretches of bull-dust,
slowly, with the wheels and under-
carriage of the car ploughing through the
deep »rey dust
Just above the river-crossing I am
lying out under the stars with my
blankets spread on eucalyptus-smelling
„y.„ . , ,
branches I have cut with my tomahawk.
-p 11 „ • • . , . J ,
Fall, aspiring, slender trees grow round
me and spread their boughs and branches
over me under the stars; large, yellow
stars and cold, blue stars.
A 3 the moon rises from behind the dark
mass of the cliffs overhanging the river-
bed the dingoes start to howl, at first
softly, distantly. Their chorus rises,
blending, echoing along the abrupt, per-
pendicular, dark cliff-masses above the
river. One voice howls in loneliness,
in anguish. The chorus dies away, fading
from the cliffs and the tall, dark trees,
fading out of the stars, drawn back into
the night and the darkness far down the
river gorge.
Now, from high up among the cliffs
comes another sound, a metallic, con-
stantly clanging and thumping sound. It
is as though someone is rolling and
pushing a car over and over and down
the cliffs. If it is a late traveller trying
to get to the river crossing, then it sounds
as if his car is coming to pieces in the
process. On and on the sound goes,
clanging and clattering and thumping
down the cliff-face.
Sun-rise fires the perpendicular, red-
purple cliff-faces above the river red-
gold. I go down to the river for water.
Near the river a heavy truck and a car
are parked among boulders and young
paper-bark trees. Three men are sitting
round a fire having breakfast. They call
out to me and ] go over to them. Two
of the men are Italians, the other is a
Czech. Their names are Gino, Cosmo
and Jerry.
I am offered a mug of tea. Gino and
Cosmo are doing some kind of contract
work to the river-crossing. Gino says,
“I work for myself. 1 please myself. If
1 don’t work today, I work tomorrow.
In this country it is la dolce vita ; the
sweet life. We shoot a turkey or a
kangaroo. We catch a fish.” They are
cooking wild turkey with chillies in a
big pan on the fire and they insist that
I eat with them.
Jerry, the Czech, is not so taken with
the sweet life. He is trying to get back
“ Well, it IS listed as a temporary dwelling."


Estab’ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Atistralia
•jA.CK.feON &
. O'SUL tIVAN
fc*. PTY.LTD. .
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANU FACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOK BINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS Sr OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
to civilisation. He is worried. He has
broken a main leaf-spring, which had
been previously welded, in his car. Gina
says, “Not to worry. I will weld it, and
weld it good for you.”
We inspect the broken spring. The
two pieces are hanging down from
underneath the car. “Why,” I exclaimed,
“now I know what all that clatter and
banging was that I heard last night. I
thought a car had rolled over the cliff.”
“What could I do?” says Jerry. “I had
to get here somehow.”
Jerry gets out his jack, sighs and curses
and, with the help of stones, jacks up the
car. The morning is becoming hot, and
Jerry, lying down in the bull-dust under-
neth the car, is sweating as he dismantles
the broken spring.
By noon the red-fired cliffs stand in a
purple haze. Their jutting masses are
blocked against the heat-haze sky. Jerry
and Gino have tramped, barefooted, up
the bull-dust deep road, to the road-
makers’ camp, with the broken spring.
Now they have returned with the welded
spring, which, Gino says, is stronger than
before. “Soon,” he says to Jerry, “you
will be on the road again.”
Mel, an Australian from the road-
makers’ camp, comes down and invites
me to dinner. He is on his own. His
mates have been into Katherine for the
weekend and have not returned. Mel is
so lonely that he comes down to my
camp with a torch to guide me to dinner.
The camp is an open-air job with
stretcher-beds, trucks and refrigerators
standing about under the sparse trees.
We sit down to dinner out in the open
with an acetylene lamp on the table. Mel
gives the scraps to his camp-mate, a half-
breed kangaroo-dog, takes a couple of
cans of beer from the refrigerator and
sits down to tell me about his girl, a
nurse in Cairns.
He has “given away” his mates for not
returning to the camp. “Anyhow,” he
says, “there’s always a blue on when
they’re here. The night the space-ship
came over here a Polish chap and an
Italian were fighting. No, they didn’t see
the space-ship because the Italian chap
was on the ground and the Pole was
persuading him to get up.”
Before I leave the river-crossing camp
this morning Gino gives me the name
and address of one of his countrymen in
Perth. He also gives me a salted croco-
dile skin. “It’s all right,” he says. “It
don’t stink.”
I climb and wind up through blood
congealed-red cliffs, leaving the river be-
low me. From the height the landscape
opens out before me. Distant red and
lilac cliffs enclose the far winding river.
Ranges and escarpments, lilac-hazed
mountains and mountains, expanses of
spinifex rob me of breath and myself
and my venture of any significance.
ROLAND ROBINSON
Dinner Time
TTF.AmNGi.EY Station, in far north-west
Queensland near the Territory border,
had just killed when we arrived there
from the ’Dangie. Rib bones were the
order of the day for black and white. On
the kitchen range sizzled big pans of the
bones, broken to manageable lengths.
Down at the camp of the station blacks
size didn’t matter. Broken off the carcase
with an axe and cooked on the coals, the
big curved bones were attacked with gusto
just as they were.
It’s a novel experience to watch a native
tackling a rib bone —just like you or I
with an outsize slice of watermelon. And
by the expressions on their gleaming faces,
every bit as enjoyable. All “al fresco,”
too. Out by the cooking fires, with the
big half-wild dogs slinking about for
scraps and the stars blazing as they only
can blaze Outback.
Since it never rains up that way except
in the wet, the blacks have forsaken the
huts provided for them by the station
and built their wurlies out on the open
ground. Nothing fancy, either. Just a
few branches tossed together to make a
breakwind, open to the sun and the stars.
Some of them have built rough tin
humpies out on the rubbish heap. Struck
me that the more untidy a place is, the
better they like it.
The huts are built to specification, but
there they stand, deserted and forlorn.
The reason? Probably claustrophobia.
Manager Bob Stemm has another explana-
tion: “Contrary b s!”
R. A. MONCRIEFF
Goshawk's Defeat
There was an air-raid going on in the
willows by the creek: honeyeaters
“chick-chickered” irritably ; noisy miners,
diving ineffectually from a safe distance,
flung insults ; wagtails chattered threats,
and mudlarks, raising their wings to the
sky, screamed hysterically.
Suddenly an excited sparrow shot out
from the reeds below; a few seconds
later a goshawk appeared from nowhere
and sped after it. The sparrow, having
a good start, reached a thick clump of
bushes about 50 yards away just in time
and disappeared, amid hushed greetings
from myriads of his friends. The
goshawk looped high above the bushes
then soared back to the willows. The
antagonists intensified their abuse as he
scrambled down to the lower branches
to hunt out another sparrow. He shook
his shoulders angrily and scowled briefly
at the wagtails who dive-bombed him as
he ran along the branches on long nimble
legs, peering down into the reeds. Sud-
denly he jumped, a mistake, crashing
down into the reeds in a hopeless tangle.
Another sparrow emerged, flying low to
the ground at top speed. The goshawk
clumsily flapped free and followed, but
again the sparrow reached the bushes
ahead of him.
Then a terrified rabbit, who had been
hiding in the reeds, rushed out, making
for his burrow. The goshawk, forgetting
about the sparrows, pounced, also for-
getting about the reeds. He was sus-
pended about a foot from the ground,
wings ignominiously sprawled open.
Regaining his wings, and dignity, he
plunged desperately again and again at
the zig-zagging rabbit. Here the wag-
tails, sensing the goshawk's failing spirits,
took over, doubling the force of their
attacks, enabling the rabbit to reach his
burrow.
The humiliated goshawk left straight
away, morale completely crushed, fol-
lowed by wagtails, miners, honeyeaters,
mudlarks, joyously rubbing it in.
A hunting peregrine falcon forced a
terrified peaceful dove to take
shelter on our verandah. The falcon
appeared to lose heart, and disappeared.
After waiting for some considerable time,
thinking the coast was clear, I caught the
dove and put it out on the lawn along-
side. It lays there for a while, still
petrified with terror, then suddenly got
to its feet, ran a few inches and took
off, flying low and rapidly towards the
nearest tree, a densely foliaged kurrajong.
As it swooped up and disappeared among
the leaves I heard a sickening, feathery
smack. The next instant the falcon flew
off with the dove in its claws, a trium-
phant light in its eyes, an arrogant smirk
all over its beak.
DAVID SCHLUNKE


REVIEWS
THEATRE
Gloom at the Top
The Dark at the Top of the Stairs.
William Inge. Union Theatre Reper-
tory Company.
Rollo. Marcel Achard. Little Theatre.
Melbourne.
\l7illiam Inge has introduced a new
™ element of suspense into the theatre.
As one watches this play one is pre-
occupied with the question of whether
this is simply a “family drama,” American
style, with Mom and Dad and daughter
arid sonny and Aunt Lottie and Uncle
Morris, full of the usual cliches, senti-
mentality and sensationalism —that queer
mixture of syrup and catastrophe that
makes up this genre —or whether the play
is really saying something serious and
interesting. For in “The Dark at the Top
of the Stairs” the action is constantly
switching back and fourth between a
typical episode of a radio or television
serial and a bit of “Long Day's Journey
Into Night.”
But this alternation of the trivial and
momentous is what Inge thinks family
life is like. There is the commonplace
round of daily life: children squabbling,
parents arguing about money, petty
worries, petty complaints. Nobody takes
very much notice, as this is going on all
the time. Then suddenly there is an ex-
plosion. It is as though human beings
were volcanoes, dormant, but likely to
erupt at any moment. Whenever one of
these volcanic eruptions occur, every-
body gets a shock. Each person is so
preoccupied with his own inner life, with
the troubles and fears bubbling away in-
side, that he does not realise that other
people are bubbling too, and tends to
regard them as a lot of rocks. The
tension is kept up by a series of these
explosions, each of which reveals some-
thing new about one of the characters.
The theme that emerges is that everyone
is afraid of the dark at the top of the
stairs, although only in the ten-vear-old
Sonny does the fear actually manifest
itself in this way.
The result is a powerful and interesting
play which nevertheless has certain weak-
nesses. In trying to give a realistic picture
of the surface of life, Inge makes his
characters very much stock figures ; of
course the dramatic moments of the play
are those at which the depths are re-
vealed below the ordinary surface. But,
iust the same, ordinary life is not quite
so ordinary. No family contains quite
such conventional figures as the father
and mother, Rubin and Cora Flood.
But, if he makes the surface of life too
conventional, Inge falls into the opposite
error when he is trying to reveal the
depths. The suicide of the Jewish boy
in the third act seems like a piece of
sensationalism. Inge has defended him-
self against the criticism that the suicide
comes as too much of a shock by saying
that in life suicide always comes as a
shock. But this is to confuse life with
art, a standard booby-trap for the writer
of naturalist drama. If the dramatist is
just going to imitate life, then the play
will be as meaningless as life itself can
be.
This is not an easy play for an Aus-
tralian company, set as it is in a little
town in the middle west of the United
States in the 19205, but the Union
Repertory Company takes it in its stride,
in a very professional production by John
Sumner. However, there seem to me to
be some distortions. Admittedly the part
of Cora is written in rose-colored ink,
but, just the same, Patricia Hill manages
to sentimentalise it even further. Joy
Mitchell’s frenetic performance as the
young flapper is somewhat exhausting.
But Roger Livermore gives a very good
performance as the Jewish boy, and
Sheila Florance is outstanding as the
noisy, extroverted Aunt Lottie whose
bounciness covers up her loneliness.
“n ollo” is a “sophisticated” French
comedy in which seduction and
marital infidelity are shown as not wicked
but ridiculous. The French, of course,
are very rational and they can see that
whereas wickedness may seem attractive,
ridiculousness will not. Unfortunately for
the moral purpose of the play, however,
while the villain is obsessed with sex,
the hero appears to be obsessed with him-
self, which makes him a bore. This has
the effect of making the villain seem the
nicer one after all, and so we are back
where we started.
John Truscott’s sets are beautiful and
provide a worthy setting for the equally
beautiful Marie Redshaw, Judith Thom-
son and Berys Marsh. The Little Theatre
is to be congratulated upon assembling
such a dazzling trio.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
More Please
Yes Please! Phillip Theatre, Sydney.
Drama Festival. Arts Council of
N.S.W.
T>est news in Sydney theatre for quite
a time is “Yes Please!" the notable
return this week of the Phillip Street
Revue. Housed in their handsome new
theatre, writers, director and cast showed
that they were once more serving up the
brand of barbed and naughty revue that
once made the Phillip Theatre a home for
sophisticates.
Maybe the most important thing that
Sydney’s revue had lost over the past two-
three years was sting. The tail lashed but
had no sharp edges. Now Mr Orr, with
a band of writers (some new to revue)
has put enough sting back into “Yes
Please!” to outfit an armada of blue-
bottles.
Another element faded from recent
revues was sheer coarseness, the keen
observation of pond life by peculiarly
talented artists. There is a difference,
most important on stage, between vul-
garity and coarseness ; all too often we
have seen essentially refined young ladies
pretending to be coarse, but with such
a formal air of “Please do not imagine
that I am like this” that tre only result
has been vulgarity.
Now, in Miss Mary Harciy. revue has
found a young lady, who knows all about
being coarse. Miss Hardy is coarse in
the way an artist should be —she holds
the mirror up to all of u;. and lets us
laugh at the seamy side of our selves.
“Little Nell,” a sketch revealing the
true activities of the Old Curiosity Shop
whose respectable facade deceived Charles
Dickens, showed Miss Hardy right at her
best. She has lots of naugnty lines, but
she believed in them, and she made
us laugh our heads oft. Mr Gordon
Chater did some excellent pieces
of sharply malicious observation —
his “Smile” number is calculated to curl
the enamel on Mr Digby Wolfe's teeth.
First-rate support to Chater and Hardy
came from Jill Perryman, Judi Farr, and
newcomer Jim Hannan. As an intellec-
tual sunbaker who tunes his transistor
into 2BL, and achieves fame as the man
who brought to Bondi Beach,
Mr Hannan was extremely funny.
For speed, slickness, sharpness and


laughs “Yes Please!” is way, way up on
some recent work ; let us hope this is a
permanent return to the old pitch.
The Arts Council of N.S.W. has for two
years now run an annual festival-
contest for full length plays produced by
Sydney amateur theatres and public
response to the just concluded second
festival should have put new heart into
the effort. Excellent audiences greeted
all four finalists, although standards
generally were fairly low.
Adjudicator May Hollingworth slated
city groups for not nearly reaching the
standards of major country groups. This,
in this critic's view, was not entirely the
right picture, since the leading city groups
do not enter the festival. They are much
too busy achieving theatre in their several
ways.
My view, for what it is worth, is that
more help would be given to theatre if
the festival were confined to groups which
mounted a certain minimum of produc-
tions each year —say four. At present,
there are some groups which do noth ng
in the way of production throughout the
year except prepare one play for the
Festival.
If a continuous survey of little theatre
were made during the year and groups
were judged on their overall work, with
the best companies then being invited
to submit a production for the annual
Festival, this would surely do more good
than the present set-up.
Awards for first and second best pro-
ductions were won by the Illawarra
Theatre Guild, with “Rape of the Beit,”
and Theatre 60 with “Royal Gambit.”
Popular, as against adjudicatory opinion,
seemed to be that the W.W.F. Theatre,
with the Australian play “Lawson,” was
unlucky.
KEVON KEMP
ART
Symbols or Abstraction?
Len French. Blaxland Gallery. Sydney.
Rubenstein Award. National Art
Gallery, Sydney.
TPhe striking imagery of Len French's
best paintings in his first Sydney
one-man show at the Blaxland Galleries
leaves no doubt as to his place in the
forefront of contemporary Australian
painting. He has evolved a very personal
iconography steeped in the symbology of
the Middle Ages and expressed in a for-
mal geometric style. The very manner of
execudon recalls heraldic tapestries or
banners and the physical presence of
ancient materials. Gold leaf glows with
suffused light in all the paintings and
it enlivens the predominant harmonies
of leathery browns.
Twelve paintings of the “Life of
Edmund Campion,” the Jesuit martyr
of the 16th century, become a visual
equivalent to the Waugh biography in
their evocations of drama and religious
passion. Some of the paintings, notably
the “Crossing,” “Tongues of Fire,” “The
Mass,’ “Death and Transfiguration,”
burn with an internal, almost visionary
fire. The formalism assists this, even the
symmetry does not offend. Recurrent
circles of gold leaf keep the images on
the surface, they fill the borders and
follow the main lines like huge brass
studs in a suit of mail.
“Ancient Landscape" glows with warm
vitreous color while the “Creation”
assumes the mysterious shape of an Aztec
mandala despite its obvious symbols. The
“Mass” is probably the best painting in
the exhibition and sets the high pitched
conflicts of the Above and Below in
motion, which culminate in the enigmatic
“Death and Transfiguration.” The “Trial”
arrays the judges as masks before an in-
congruous deep spaced backdrop straight
out of Perugino. However, the more suc-
cessful efforts assume the proportion of
a solemn pageant steeped in archaisms yet
redolent cf the struggles and triumphs of
20th century vision.
nPHE Helena Rubenstein Travelling Art
Scholarship is designed “to help
those who, in their work and attitude to
life, exhibit a creative and forward-look-
ing talent. 4 ” The exhibition for 1961 now
on view at the Art Gallery of New South
Wales leaves one in no doubt as to what
the judges consider to be “creative and
forward looking”—the work of the Syd-
new asbtract expressionists.
Expressionism, which sought to unite
the human being with the forces of
“Nature,” was superseded over 20 years
ago in the U.S.A. by the new move-
ment. From obscure subconscious depths
different impulses are at work, mixed, un-
predictable, often destructive, and they
emerge in the act of painting. It is use-
less to talk of meaning when there is
none or where it is so vague that inter-
pretation becomes impossible. The con-
cept of meaning is wholly submerged by
the concept of force. This emergence of
a kind of atavism is but one of the many
specialised developments in 20th century
painting. Whereas the masterpieces of
the past crystallised out of a sweeping
imaginative insight, the works of the
abstract expressionists strive to burst their
frames and expand outwards. The spec-
tator consequently finds himself immedi-
ately affected by the dynamics of the
paintings which depend so much on the
physical surge of the paint itself, “hot”
with action.
Tom Gleghorn, the winner, has sum-
moned all his skill at textural manipula-
tion. Over layers of thick P.V.A. (poly
vinyl acetate) monochrome black and
fabric paste-ons, he introduces new notes
of color to provide an involved, brittle,
complex of forms. Internal tensions
both anxious and violent seem to devour
the paintings from within while harsh
black lines slash into the neutral zones.
Like a slick jazz performance, “Games
in Late Dawn’’ unites all these qualities
to mark a big advance along his chosen
path.
Leonard Hessing places his bigger
closed shapes with a little more awareness
and less attack. His suave handling of
floating texture is tempered by the use of
disagreeable low toned accents and small
indigestible forms. This however rises
to firm assurance in the “Illusion of Place
No. 1, or Middle Cove, Yellow Spring.”
Stanislaus Rapotec is remarkable for
the athletic zest of his wide brush strokes.
Extremely simple O shapes are answered
by equally simple stabbing black bars.
Ochre and black dominate the Blake prize
winning picture, “Meditation of Good
Friday,” which somehow emanates a
most unmeditative exhuberance.
By comparison with the work of these
three painters, John Coburn's entries at
first glance appear to suffer. This is an
illusion. The message emerges slowly,
surely and as forcefully as anything in the
show. Schematic themes and variations
stem from a fundamentally cubist
approach which is exact and conscious.
Here the forms and spaces are enriched
by large areas of glowing color.
Jon Molvig successfully conveys his
vision of an arid and dehumanised in-
dustrial Eden with heavy material pre-
sences set against an abyss of darkness.
His strident cut outs of factories and
figures work effectively in “Industrial
Eden —Male and Female” or “Industrial
Eden —Female,” biting attacks on com-
placency
In the second room. Peter Upward
wields his broom dipped in black plastic
paint in “June Celebrations.” Gesture is
everything and success depends on the
hazard of split second timing not dis-
similar to that achieved by the Zen adepts
he so ardently admires. William Rose
continues in his rather dry exploration
of thinly effective geometries which hover
over uniform grey grounds in contrast to
the soft appealing statements of vague
color and sparsely textured form pro-
vided by Robert Juniper. Margo Lewers
and John Percival maintain their charac-
teristic styles without noticeable change.
J. HENSHAW
Gothic Chaos
Sydney Contemporary Painters. Hardy
Bros.’ Gallery. Brisbane.
At Hardy Bros.’ new gallery the
Queensland Division of the Arts
Council of Australia has a show of work
by 25 Sydney painters, all, except four,
abstracts derived from the Gothic minds
of Central European psychopaths. It
could be a show of kindergarten finger-
painting by four-year-olds, an anarchic
chaos. There are only four works which
communicate any lesthetic feeling; the
rest are slapdash, totally devoid of style,
design, color harmony, intellectual con-


tent and true skill; the paint is just
slopped on in stray random streaks and
broad strokes or in solid masses. 1 know
that Gleghorn can draw, but his terribly
dull mass of quasi-metallic bas-relief,
utterly meaningless, is unworthy. Judg-
ing by the prices quoted, John Olsen is
the big fella with “Circus Day,” a frag-
mented phantasmagoria which embodies
the nightmare of a little girl who at the
circus has had far too much ice-cream
and fizz-pop drinks, acquired a bellyache
and a nightmare. Price, 300gns. Accord-
ing to the catalogue Olsen was a real boy
prodigy: it says “1928, born Newcastle,
N.S.W. . . . 1936, worked and studied
abroad . . . with a grant from a private
sponsor," at eight years old, mind you.
John Ogburn has a thing called “Land-
scape After Rain.” This label is phoney,
it is not a landscape and might have been
equally well called “Philosopher Read-
ing” or “Skating Rink.” Carl Plate
shows a wild piece of devationism called,
no doubt correctly, “Paradox of
Unreality." You can possess that rub-
bish for 95gns. But this pretentious sort
of mindless arrogance is plastered all
over the show. Eric Smith’s “Evening
Glade," which could be a midnight glade
or an afternoon or morning glade, is
slightly clever, child artless art. Elwyn
Lynn labels as “White Terrain” a poorly
drawn map of India which would have
rated a C-minus in a geography exam.
The prize for the dirtiest amd most
untidy thing goes to Leonard Hessing.
In his “Alluvial. Confine” (whatever that
may mean) he has a slovenly splash of
dark color on top which was so liquid
that it has dribbled down over the rest
of the mean stuff.
These people make the elementary mis-
take of using objective labels. If the
labels and names were shuffled in a lot-
tery barrel and issued at random it would
not make the slightest difference. If
only one or two painted like this, you
could say that is his or their little aber-
ration, but when everybody does it the
thing is simply a passing fad like winkle-
picker toes and stiletto heels. In 20
years' time abstraction of the kind here
shown will be forgotten and we can all
get back to liking art with some brains,
intellect and skill in it. Only four works
in this show have any artistic merit:
James Gleeson’s “The Waiter,” an
adumbration of a waiter, tray, glasses
and all, refined and elognated like an El
Greco figure ; terribly clever. Orban’s
“Village,” generally cubist in form, is
graceful and lovely in color. Frank
Hinder’s “Over the Bridge” is a beauti-
ful evocation of the Harbor Bridge, and
Weaver Hawkins’s “Regatta Rhythm” is
a repetitive design of yacht sails that
would make a very nice textile pattern
if it were not spoiled by a flower bouquet
slapped over the middle.
I suppose artists will always in the
future, as in the past, seek new modes
of expression; up to now they still
remained artists with intellectual integra-
tion, but abstraction is so fatally easy that
persons with minds ever so weak were
trapped. I hope Australian artists will
soon get back to serious work. And by
that I do not mean color photography.
After all, Monet, Renoir and Cezanne
had something new to say that was, and
is, important and indeed essential for the
good health of art.
J. V. DUHIG
FILMS
Mush, Mush
Ice Palace. Sydney Regent.
gets the impression that Edna
V* Ferber is a literary factory, rather
than an authoress. Written to Best Seller
formula, her product never aims higher
nor sinks lower than average, middle-
brow taste. Hei weaknesses are lack
of invention, lack of subtlety, lack of
edge in dialogue composed largely of
cliches, and a pervasive, women s-
magazine-style sentimentality. Her
strengths are a sense of pageantry tn the
commonplace, warmth and enthusiasm ;
and a certain rugged earthiness, devoid
ot the deliberate vulgarity so common
in other writers of second-rate fiction.
From her one expects and invariably
gets the careless sweep of something
passing for history. Against a frontier
background, one follows a family’s for-
tunes through a couple of generations.
Usually, the building of a fortune (and
its possibly disastrous consequences) is
itself a major part of the theme; and
this gives her the opportunity to describe
men at work, giving her own work a
rough authenticity. All these things are
present in “Ice Palace.” The setting this
time is Alaska. It takes in the years from
the end of the first World War to the
incorporation of the territory as the
forty-ninth state of the Union. It
describes men engaged in the fishing and
canning industries, and the bitter rivalry
of two of them: not only for a woman,
but also in commerce and politics.
Ferber is God’s own gift to technicolor.
The film, which lasts for a couple of
hours, has the strengths and weaknesses
of its author. One sees a lot of Alaska
and it is ruggedly beautiful. One gets
some idea of the canning industry and
i ts problems, and of the development of
the territory to its present status. There
js punch and bite in the drama of rivalry,
and plenty of action: fisticuffs mixed up
with the fishing, sleighing and flying,
There is also a good deal of melodrama,
Ferber romances are invariably tear-
stained, also to a formula: The Brave
Little Woman gets hurt, but carries on
heroically. No wonder women like her.
. ■ ° me ber heroes are less heroic than
pig-headedly obstinate ; but perhaps her
feminine intuition is right, in assuming
nien who tame the wild frontier are
usually small boys in men s clothing,
Richard Burton is powerfully convincing
as tbe S ras P in g czar of the canning
industry, and Robert Ryan warmly
human as the champion of the fishermen,
however ridiculous both appear in funda-
mental human relationships. But tne
Brave Little Woman (Carolyn Jones)
somehow holds the film together, a
credible focal point on a canvas a little
I°° large for life, and much too sprawling
anc f mushy for art.
ANTON VOGT
"Try a king-size ."


The Red Page
Bloom's Wake Goes On
By LEONIE KRAMER
IT is nearly 40 years since the publica-
tion of “Ulysses”; over 40 years since
it began appearing in instalments in the
“Little Review.” Since the 1920 s readers
of fiction have encountered so many
experiments and technical eccentricities
that I wonder whether it is possible now
even to imagine the impact which
“Ulysses” made at that time. Is it pos-
sible for any reader in 1960 to feel the
kind of excitement recorded by Virginia
Woolf in “The Common Reader”? Is
it, in fact, even possible to talk of
“Ulysses” and “the common reader” in
the one sentence? For if ever there is a
novel that seems to demand attention
from the uncommon reader it is
“Ulysses”; and none of the technical
experiments conducted in the last 40
years, and for so many of which
“Ulysses” itself can be held responsible,
have made it more digestible by the wide
audience that fiction now commands.
“Ulysses,” in other words, is still what
it has always been, caviar to the general.
That it should be so is only one of the
many ironies surrounding this remark-
able book. For it is a novel about an
ordinary day in the life of an ordinary
Dubliner. Leopold Bloom has been
nominated by many critics as a repre-
sentative modern man, caught in the
trivialities of a decaying civilisation,
lightly burdened with the traces of a
vanishing culture. He is, we have been
repeatedly told, ‘Thomme moyen
sensuel,” a spokesman for an age which
has lost its faith and its direction, a
“fabulous voyager” on a sea of sights
and sounds from which even the remotest
echo of ancient heroism has long since
faded. And yet this man, so often said
to represent our civilisation in all its
inadequacies, has been for all the 40
years of his literary existence rather the
subject of scholarly exegesis than of com-
mon recognition. He is enshrined in
commentaries; but by the common
reader he himself is encountered, if at
all. only at a distance, recreated as a
shadow of his real self in more acces-
sible novels.
Joyce, as Mr Goldberg in this study*
rightly asserts, is entitled to ask of his
readers the closest attention to a book
which was so long in the making. But
in demanding at least something like the
concentration of effort from his readers
that went into the writing of “Ulysses,”
he has inevitably restricted his audience
to those who have the time and inclina-
tion, and not the least restrictive condi-
tion, and, not the least restrictive condi-
of his creation. Like many of his fellow-
writers in this century, Joyce has spoken
of the many, but has addressed himself
to the few.
The articulate few—his commenta-
tors, explicators and critics—have them-
selves accumulated a formidable body of
literature, some of which must often
have seemed to students of Joyce's work
rather to obscure than to illuminate its
subject, by covering it with layers of con-
flicting significances. One of the most
notable virtues of Mr Goldberg’s study
is that it clears away much of the rub-
bish which has gathered about “Ulysses”
over the last 30 years. Admirably
demonstrating in practice the principles
of the “new criticism,” Mr Goldberg
asks that we should look first of all at
what is presented in the novel itself;
and one of the immediately productive
results of this approach is the elimina-
tion of much of the psychological cant
which at times has seemed to turn
“Ulysses” into a handbook of psychologi-
cal symbols. He points out —as in a
different context C. S. Lewis has done—
that if so many conflicting interpreta-
tions of particular symbols are possible,
there may be grounds for questioning the
validity of all of them, or at least for
supposing that a quite different approach
to the work will prove more fruitful.
Mr Goldberg’s study starts with, and is
in fact founded upon, a close examina-
tion of the aesthetic theory propounded
by Joyce’s hero Stephen in “A Portrait
of the Artist as a Young Man” and in
“Ulysses.” In themselves, these chapters
present an imoressive analysis of the
meaning of the theories, of their relation-
ship to Joyce's presentation of Stephen
in both novels and to the structure and
meaning of “Ulysses.” There is, of
course, an immediate difficulty in this
approach, and one which Mr Goldberg
is particularly careful to examine. This
is the danger of simply accepting
Stephen’s aesthetic as Joyce’s own. But
for all his patient distinction between
Stephen as a dramatic character, of
whom Joyce is the creator, and Joyce’s
own views, he does not entirely succeed
in avoiding ambiguity on this point.
Sometimes the ambiguity is patent, as
in the comment that “there are certain
uses of symbolism that Stephen (or
Joyce) deliberately rejected from art.”
This is partly a result of Mr Goldberg’s
style. The qualifications and deliberate
restatements of a single idea which serve
him so well in his critical exegesis, handi-
cap him in these more “philosophical”
sections of the book. Arguments which
are in themselves difficult become more
so when they are stated in such terms
as this: “Language is the product, or
rather the expression, of the whole pro-
cess of apprehension." (Italics mine.)
Valuable as these first two chapters
are as an examination respectively of the
aesthetic of “The Portrait” and of
“Ulysses,” it is in the application of the
insights gained from the study of
Joyce’s theory to his practice in “Ulysses”
that Mr Goldberg seems to me happiest.
Here his critical acumen is seen to the
best advantage. The modifications and
rephrasings which sometimes obscure the
purely logical issues in the aesthetic dis-
cussion, admirably reveal the subtle
shifts of perspective in Joyce’s explora-
tion of the relationship between Bloom
and Stephen, and of both to the a stic
world of “Ulysses.” Moreover, even the
finest distinction in his analysis are
never allowed to assume importance in
themselves; they are related and referred
back continually to the central achieve-
ment of the whole novel. Mr Goldberg
reminds us from time to time of his main
contention, that the value of “Ulysses”
lies not in any one of its particular
achievements, that is, •in its “parodic
irony,” its “representational accuracy”
and so on, but in “its underlying and
overarching vision of human life, a vision
more humane and more complex than is
always perceived.” It is a tribute to his
critical perspective that Mr Goldberg
discovers both the complexity and the
humanity, and at the same time illumi-
nates by them Joyce’s “vision of human
life.” He writes particularly well on the
“modes of irony” in “Ulysses,” and in
this section reveals insights which shed
light on many aspects of the novel —for
example in his statement that “the per-
vasive irony ... is not the savage irony
that an ideal Reality casts on Appearance,
but the kinder, more humorous and toler-
ant irony that Achievement casts on
Potentiality.”
Mr Goldberg’s view of the weaknesses
in “Ulysses” may briefly be summed up
in his statement that its most obvious
flaw is Joyce’s “trust in ingenuity to fill
out his basic design instead of imagina-
tively penetrating his material and in-
forming it through and through.” This
criticism has, of course, been expressed
before, though rarely with such persua-
sive evidence to support it. Molly Bloom
earns his particular disapproval as a
contrived character, “a projection of
an idea previously conceived.” This is
true, and bound to be so in the sense that
Molly, unlike Bloom and Stephen, is not
seen over the whole of the novel as a
dramatic character. The ambiguity he
* The Classical Temper. S. L. Gold-
berg. Chatto and Windus. 495. 9d.


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. “I>.” Box 2671, G.1’.0.. Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let ii» find it for you—Action,
text book, biography, history, etc. .Moderate
lee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
hooks. Please semi your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.O. Sv«fw«y.
discovers in Molly’s final affirmative is
only one of the many in “Ulysses,” but
one which is made more obvious by the
comparative crudity of its presentation.
And this provokes a question implicit
in much of Mr Goldberg’s analysis of
Joyce’s irony—namely, to what extent do
the complex ironies of the novel cancel
each other out?
Indeed, it is one of the great merits of
Mr Goldberg's study that it allows ques-
tions of this kind, and points to direc-
tions in which discussion of “Ulysses”
might profitably be pursued. For
example, it is asserted that Joyce's
elaborate structural scheme, set out by
Gilbert Stuart, has little more than bio-
graphical interest, and that the detailed
Homeric parallels “possess no structural
importance.” In view of Mr Goldberg’s
procedure in this book, it would be of
some interest and importance to try to
determine whether there is not to be dis-
covered some link between Joyce’s
aesthetic theory and a formal scheme so
complex and so meticulously elaborated;
and whether in fact the scheme can be
quite so decisively dismissed.
As a contribution to the understanding
of “Ulysses,” and as a stimulus to
further critical discussion, “The Classical
Temper” is an important book. And at
the risk of ending a review of this kind
on a parochial note, it is to say the least
gratifying that a book of this quality
should have been added to the growing
list of publications by Australian literary
scholars.
Learning the Mother Tongue
Images and Symbols. Mircea Eliade.
Harvill Press. London. 225. 6d.
'T'vvf.n riETH - century man has been
-* rather self-consciously re-discovering
the symbolic mode of thought and ex-
pression, and re-asserting its validity. Or
trying to, anyway. Symbols and images
are the mother-tongue of man's meta-
physical consciousness—of that ineradic-
able striving to grasp the mystery of
being.
It is true that the “scientistic” current
in nineteenth-century thought tended to
discredit all symbol-thinking or "imagina-
tion” as merely an archaic source of error
and superstition, which must therefore be
left behind as we realise that the only
available truth about the world is that
which can be gained by empirical pro-
cedures.
In regard to this, Professor Eliade, who
is perhaps the greatest living historian of
religion., says “that the symbol, the
myth and the image are of the very sub-
stance of the spiritual life.” that they
cannot be destroyed though they may be
“disguised, mutilated or degraded.” He
points out that the great myths did not
really disappear in the nineteenth-century:
they were “humbled, minimised, con-
demned to incessant change of form, and
yet survived that hibernation, thanks
chiefly to literature.” The example he
gives is the survival of the myth of the
Earthly Paradise in the “Oceanian para-
dise” of the Pacific islands, which has
lemained proof against all de-bunking.
In another work, unhappily not yet
translated from the German original,
Eliade touches further on this persistence
of the mythical in the “demythologised”
existence of modern man. He notes the
masked mythology and ritualisms in plays,
films, novels and poems ; and in the social
and political movements whose mytho-
logical structure and religious fanaticism
are plain to see. But even more he notes
the degenerated paradisal myth lurking in
such things as nudity cults and free-love
programmes; he marks the “initiatic”
character of sports “trials” and other
modern phenomena, including even
psycho-analysis, which reproduces a veri-
table initiation-pattern.
It is certainly true that the idea has
now permeated the highbrow-level of our
culture that the symholic mode is neces-
sary to man’s health of consciousness.
And this is not something that concerns
only the Conscientious unbelievers, the
surface of whose mind has been “de-
sacralised.” It concerns just as much the
conscientious believers, who find that
without this mode of consciousness they
cannot enter fully into their religion. Far
from experiencing, for example, the sex-
and-fertility symbolism of the Holy
Saturday rite, in its rich significance, the
Catholic nurtured in Jansenism and in-
dustrialism is likely to be image-blind
and word-deaf, and unable truly to par-
ticipate.
Eliade has written this book for the
general reader, and especially for those
interested in psychology and literary
criticism. The studies in symbolism it
contains are of great value.
There is just one thing which I think
needs to be said. Some people get so
attracted to their field of myth and symbol
that it becomes a sort of mania. Others
dread the boredom of those endless
Cook’s tours whereby the symbolism of
shells, or knots, or ‘‘world-centres, ’’ or
baptisms, or columns and so on, is
traced through many cultures and ages.
One notices, too, how dubious the value
of the new symbol-mongering is among
poets who mug up their Jung, or dive
(via the funnel of Yeats or Blake) into
the hermetic abyss.
Knitting symbols is, in itself, no more
valuable than tatting. Symbolism is a
vast complex of potentialities, with +
and - signs and a myriad vectors. You
can go round and round in it getting
merely sillier and more self-contradictory
(the “coincidence of opposites” is a
speciality of the house). Historically,
man did not experience symbols by be-
coming a tourist or museum-haunter or
a looker-up of handbooks. He experi-
enced symbols only as their potentialities
were realised and anchored in a particu-
lar religion which was that of himself
and his community. Any other approach
reminds me of the remark 1 once formu-
lated in trying to say what was wrong
with Dylan Thomas’s early poetry: that
it was like sticking cut flowers in the
ground and expecting a harvest, or joim
ing severed genitals together and expect-
ing Rebirth.
JAMES McAULEY
Scars of the Heart
ChHdren of the Ashes. Robert Jungk.
Heinemann. 31s.
Tf ever we grope together for the same
1 crust in the slime-blackened and radio-
active gutters of Sydney I will say, “Do
you remember Robert Jungk’s ‘Children
of the Ashes’? In it he examined not
merely the destruction of a city, the stones
that wept and bled with the fury of the
blast, but the ‘scars of the heart,’ the effect
on human beings, on the orphan children
starving around little fires where the boys
reminded the girls that they at least had
something to sell and the girls complained
that the boys did better by stealing. He
told how these children grew up. Here
you had a saintly day-laborer devoting
himself to the relief of misery, here a boy
who tore up his beloved schoolbooks and
murdered by cyanide in a bottle of
lemonade, all their hatreds, loves and
ignominy. Ah, a blueprint for us, my
friend.”
Firmly placing my one good foot on
your groping fingers I will continue, “But
consider the magnificence of his material.
Fiction could not approach that picture
of the Japanese authorities urging a group
of business.magnates to make a ‘national
patriotic effort’ to g.et their concerns
running again. And these stout fellows
did, indeed, against great odds, manage
to open their brothels just as the Occupa-
tion troops moved in. They complained,
of course, that the Government financial
aid had strings to it.”
Here is a newspaper reporter hurrying
through the ruins who can find neither
time nor place to inter the bones of his
mother and father which he carries every-
where rattling in a metal box on his hip.
Here are doctors begging for permission
to dissect corpses so they may learn how
to treat radiation sickness and being re-
fused by the bureaucrats.
Town-planners, idealists and poets


discuss endlessly the reconstruction of
the city while they live on weeds and
crab-shells. Gangs of brave water-and-
sewerage workers, armed with knives,
fight the thirsty citizens who break open
pipes as soon as they are repaired.
Flowers grow luxuriantly amid the ruins
and so does crime. Hiroshima, the
arsenal of Japan, had prospered on war,
the Sino-Russian War, the Chinese war,
World War 11. What splendid irony that
money not forthcoming for houses was
available for public monuments in the
newiy-named “City of Peace.”
Repairing American artillery for the
war in Korea once again lined the pockets
of the city, bringing prosperity, a new
baseball park and more washing machines
and television sets than anywhere else in
Japan.
It was not the dropping of the bomb
that caused abiding resentment. That
could be acknowledged, perhaps, as mili-
tary necessity. But on a graveyard of
war-dead which the Japanese had revered
as sacred, the Atomic Bomb Casualty
Commission set up a palatial clinic. Here
millions of dollars were spent on equip-
ment and doctors with the aim of examin-
ing every available case of radiation sick-
ness The “cases’’ too ill to bring their
scars and blindness were whirled up to
the costly building in cars, passed from
doctor to doctor without explanation,
docketed, sampled, and driven back to
be deposited in the mud of their hovels.
But if the sick should ask, “What can
I do to get well?” the answer was, “This
is not a therapeutic establishment. It is
a scientific institute founded with the ex-
clusive object of carrying out research.”
To help or heal would be an admission
of guilt and no such admission must be
made.
Foi almost ten years censorship was
clamped down on every aspect of the
Bomb. The Japanese accused the Ameri-
cans of keeping their knowledge of radia-
tion effects as a kind of secret weapon
for World War 111. Shunned by their
fellows the “survivors" of the Bomb did
not dare to expose their suffering. In
poverty-stricken hovels, in dark and
execrable public hospitals, they died and
the Americans complained of the “attri-
tion of patient-material,” of the unco-
operative attitude of relatives who refused
to surrender bodies for further examina-
tion.
On a Memorial to the Atomic Victims
of Hiroshima was inscribed: “Rest in
Peace. The Mistake Shall Never Be
Made Again." An angry mother de-
manded that the name of her three-year-
old son be removed from the list of
victims. Of w'hat “mistake” could a three-
year-old child be guilty? Where the
Occupation authorities and the scientists
failed w'as in not realising that the “scars
on the heart'’ were just as important as
the cheloids they studied.
Robert Jungk made no such mistake.
Not for him the scientific cross-section.
When he wrote “Brighter Than a
Thousand Suns,” the book which gave
the human background to the discovery
of atomic fission and traced nuclear
physics from the genial little German
universities to the nightmare decision of
the hydrogen bomb, he knew that facts
are not true without that human back-
ground. For “Children of the Ashes” he
talked with the gangsters, the respectable,
the bewildered, mean, generous, corrupt
and quarrelsome, all those who started
a city breathing again by infusions of
heroism, obstinacy and greed. The books
are more fascinating than novels and
their success a cheering indication that
people eagerly seek out factual works
that are well written, intelligent, and
above all, human.
From his account of men and women
caught in the most significant event of
a century, out of the horrible plight of
the “survivors." he draws certain con-
clusions. or rather allows us to draw them.
In a sense all of us were survivors of
Hiroshima. That radiation sickness which
the Americans diagnosed so carefully,
studied so fully, issuing only reports of
a reassuring kind which, the Japanese
maintained, kept knowledge concealed
like a secret weapon, that radiation sick-
ness affected the whole world. It began
wdth a lassitude, a malaise of weariness
in which nothing seemed worth doing,
iri which the sufferer could only wait,
occupying himself with the trivial and
frivolous in face of the inevitable end.
Removing my foot from your groping
fingers, I shall say, “Because l remember
the lessons of Robert Jungk’s ‘Children
of the Ashes' I will share with you this
slime-blackened crust and help you crawl
to our dug-out in the ruins. For if men
bring on each other unimaginable evil
we must learn to be better than men."
KYLIE TENNANT
Undefeated Underdogs
The Dyehouse. Mena Calthorpe. Jre
Smith. 21s.
Dust on the Paw. Robin Jenkins.
Macdonald. 18s.
Decision at Delphi. Helen Maclnnes.
Collins. 225. 6d.
Don’t Tie Me Down. Victor Lloyd.
Angus and Robertson. 18s. 9d.
A new Underdoggist is in our midst:
Goulburn - born Mena Calthorpe
writes with distinction of the striving,
the loving and conflict of Australian
workers who live in the dingy industrial
suburb of Macdonaldtown where the
Dyehouse is situated. One character
emerges with particular strength, the
Simon Legree figure of Renshaw —seducer
and slave-driver, who holds a key position
in the company. Hughie, 35 years with the
company and with an artist’s love for his
work. Oliver Henry, the cynical, woman-
wary drifter, and many more remind
us of people we've seen or met.
There are vignettes of workers in their
homes, tender portraits of marriages,
savage and unsparing scenes of a man's
lust, and throughout, the subtle, deadly
jockeying for position among the bosses,
usually at the cost of some employee's
job.
When portrayed in their private lives,
the poor who work at the Dyehouse are
somewhat clouded by the author's brood-
ing sympathy. Actually, the poor are,
of necessity, a fairly joyful and hardy lot.
They get more kick out of surmounting
their condition than Miss Calthorpe
shows. Her Australian workers are not
portrayed in their well-known off-duty
pleasures, which perhaps gives force to
the point the author wishes to make that
the Underdog lives in a grey, hopeless
world but to me seems to deprive them of
a dimension. Miss Calthorpe has the
force, feeling and skill to make her good
company for Kylie Tennant, Ruth Park
and Margaret Trist.
In a different sphere, and in a different
ay, Scottish novelist, Robin Jenkins,
looks at the Underdog in the East. His
story is set in a tiny Asian country called
Nurania, and centres around the intention
of a Nuranian science teacher. Abdul
Wahab, recently returned from studies in
England, to marry an Englishwoman and
bring her to live in his country. The
leaders of the country, and members of
the European colony are all involved in
the effects of this inter-racial marriage.
Chief among them are Moffatt, poet
and English teacher at a Nuranian Uni-
versity, and his beautiful Chinese wife.
Marring the love between the two is
his deeply-rooted ambivalence, which
swiftly identifies itself with Wahab's
coming marriage to the Englishwoman.
Moffatt's secret shame and hostility rises
to threaten not only his own mariage,
but that of the Nuranian. Interlocking
with this theme is Wahab's career as an
educationist in his backward and lack-
adaisical country.
This fine novel has debonair glints of
Waugh-like mischief, especially in the
delineation of the European colony, and
when the author shows how thin is the
crust of enlightenment and tolerance
over ancient tradition and prejudice.
Comedy and pathos arise out of this
clash of ideals with human reality.
Mr Jenkins has something of “that
broad animal serenity" which is to
typify the best novelists. Not for him
“the thin introspective whine.” His
characters may not be the giant abstrac-
tions of the great novelists, burnt into
the memory forever, yet the portrayal
of Wahab seems to me a wonderful enact-
ment of the Underdog when given a taste
of' power by his superiors—vaccillating
between triumph and timidity, em-
boldened to lust higher, one moment
servile, the next blustering, his original
ideals tarnished with self-interest and,
sometimes, as in Wahab's case, his in-
tegrity coming gloriously, if shakily,
good. Moving without dismay through
his many-faceted scenes of marital love,
squalor, intrigue and lubricity involving


both East and West, Mr Jenkins joyfully
affirms the valor and aspiration of his
fellow-men.
With "Decision at Delphi” you are
never certain whether you are reading a
travel book, or a book about Greek
manners, or have suddenly stumbled mto
a John Buchan thriller. The back-
ground constantly overshadows the
foreground, which deals with the
machinations of a mysterious political
group in Greece based upon Nihilism
and which threatens not only Greece itself,
but the future of the world. Fluency
lapses into long-windedness and mystery
subsides into rather vague complications
that befuddle rather than mystify. Per-
haps one ought not to quibble about such
a small thing, but Miss Maclnnes con-
stantly recurring use of the word ’worried”
is puzzling as well as irritating. It seems
a fussy little domestic word with which
to describe reactions to such powerful
factors as political conspiracy, assassi-
nation and murder.
If you want a brisk, no-nonsense thriller,
Australian Victor Lloyd’s "Don't Tie Me
Down” is a strongly-plotted story. John
Fenner, successful city businessman, who
owns a car rental firm in an Australian
city, finds himself involv;d with the shady,
thug-like Giunell to whom he hires out
cars. When Fenner, a married man with
children, launches into an affair . ,'th
Grunell's lady companion, violence
closes in on him. The girl is found
murdered and Fenner is arrested His
lawyer, Pat Waring, hankering after
Fenner's missus is committed to saving
“Ah—I often yearn for the fleshpots of Europe!"
the man whose conviction would leave
the way clear for wife-stealing.
Mr Lloyd has safely adhered to The
Formula, but he offers credible characters,
authentic city argot and handles every
element of his story with assurance.
THELMA FORSHAW
In Search of India
India, Mirage and Reality. Peter
Schmid, translated by E. Osers.
Harrap. 31s.
A Yankee and the Swamis. John Yale.
Allen and Unwin. 21s. 6d.
\l/ell-known Swiss journalist Peter
Schmid is a keen observer and he
possesses the rare ability to recreate a
scene, an atmosphere, a mood, but the
choice of topics and the personal observa-
tions seem to reveal bias. The author
has expressed this best when- he says “I
want to see the other side of Holy India.”
I am afraid this attitude has colored too
often Schmid’s reporting. Are the Taj
Mahal and Chandigerh truly representa-
tive of Indian architecture? And one can-
not but pity Schmid that, after having
seen burning ghats, the Holi festival,
erotic carvings on temples, holy cows in
and out of asylums, a few sadhus and
Pondicherry Ashram, found his only real
spiritual experience in his contact with
the Sufi Lady Sairet Raihona. But. after
all, he wanted to see “the other side of
Holy India! ”
It is a pity that this book is marred
by bias, because much of it is valuable:
the comparison of Russian and German
Steel Mills, the chapter about Kerala and
about Vinola Bhave are particularly in-
teresting. Schmid's knowledge of religi-
ous and historical background is very
sound (1 must mention two lapses: “Shiva
with her many arms,” p. 218 —Buddha, a
native of Katmandu,” p. 242). There is
a lot of truth in his appraisal of the im-
possible Kashmir situation but, again,
who can seriously accept his comparison
with Algiers? Moreover, is it fair to
put India on the same footing as China,
in describing them as “two millstones
between which Nepal is being crushed”?
The last couple of pages seem to me
to express Schmid's attitude. Switzer-
land’s humble neutrality is contrasted with
Nehru's proud neutralism, “a disguised
claim to political influence on a world
scale.” “Nehru assumes the role of
arbiter mundi, a world conscience.” ft
is as if Peter Schmid wanted to show
that India is “not morally superior to
others.” It is a great pity that such
attitude has diminished the value of an
otherwise well-informed, interesting and
thought-pi ovoking work. Peter Schmid
did avoid the mirage, but I am afraid he
missed also a lot of the reality that makes
India what it is.
Tf Schmid went to India as an iconoclast,
-*■ Yale went as a pilgrim. This is the
account of the pilgrimage to India of a
Hollywood aspirant-monk of the Hindu
Ramakrishna Order. He lives in India
in various monasteries of this Order,
founded by the Hindu Saint Ramakrishna
who lived at the end of the 19th-century.
He visits places connected with the life
of Ramakrishna, and a number of Hindu
temples, and meets monks of the Order
Yale goes as a convert, as a novice, as
a devotee. All the merits and demerits
of the book follow from there.
We are given the inside view of this
neo-Hindu Order, the daily routine and
the religious life of the monks and are
given a first hand description of the
educational and charitable work they are
organising.
The fact that this journey is a pilgrim-
age makes the author see the good side
of everything, and makes him exalt almost
every aspect of what he obviously reveres.
Very soon the book gets tedious on
account of this naivety which, at the
start, ts refreshing. The juxtaposition of
Hindu metaphysical mysticism with some-
times rather crude and naive explanations
and justifications of strange customs,
conceptions, and superstitions, is most
baffling. It is most difficult to take
seriously some of his references to
“miracles,” “spiritual vibrations,” “spiri-
tual force is dust, water, food, the lin-
gam,” the “sologram stove,” and many
others. Also the uncritical hunt for
parallels between the lives of Christ and
Ramakrishna gets out of hand, and a
number of observations (Mary, “God
as Mother’*) seem inexcusable.
India casts a strange spell on some
Western observers and critical, level-
headed appraisal seems to elude them.
Peter Schmid avoided the mirage and also
a lot of reality. I am afraid John Yale,
pilgrim of the Ramakrishna Order, re-
mained in some ways pilgrim of the
mirage.
J. JORDENS


Mrs DON QUIXOTE
a
story
by DESMOND O’GRADY
THE Minister's wife had the choir sing three encores of “Click go
the shears, boys” before she signalled an end to their efforts
with a bush cook’s thwack of her hands. The five Propaganda
Fide College students, who would have found even knitting
lessons a welcome excuse for a free afternoon, moved towards the
largest table in the Legation reception room where sandwiches,
savories and cakes were arrayed while the Legation typists, who
regarded choir singing as unpaid overtime, made conversation with
the Minister’s wife and an Indian girl, caste-marked and sari’d. whose
motive for singing bush ballads and Christmas carols could only be
guessed.
The other two choristers, a lean young man and a girl, were
obviously renewing an acquaintance. In a lordly fashion, designed
to dissimulate his curiosity, he questioned her: she had taught on
leaving Melbourne University, then left for a European trip with a
girl-friend who had flown to England after falling ill at Naples. Now
she was after work as an English teacher in Rome.
“I hope the rector doesn’t mind me feeding you like this,” said
the short-sighted Minister’s wife to the young man whose only clerical
touch was a dark suit. No seminary would have tolerated the affecta-
tion of long hair which had to be flicked from his eyes in a sort of
nervous punctuation of his speech. And any master of studies would
have looked inquiringly into that face which showed no signs of
regular hours and exercise, which, grey and brooding, with lyre-
shaped lips, high-arched nose and sprouting eyebrows, -was more that
of an ageing prelate than of a young man. From smiling conspira-
torially at the Minister’s wife he turned to the girl: “And your hubby-
to-be is slaving his guts out at home amassing lucre for the house
and garden.”
“Maybe.”
“Don’t tell me you haven’t put a reserve ticket on an innocent.”
“I may be aiming at a famous expatriate artist.”
“Mrs Don Quixote . . .”
When Bo had entered the Legation reception room during “Good
King Wenceslas” and had seen Alex in profile he had simultaneously
recaptured the sun-bathed stretch of lawn between Wilson Hall and
the Vice-Chancellor’s residence where he had first seen Alex, the
1930’s stodginess of her parents’ home, the claustrophobic atmosphere
of his quarrels with his father before he had left him, Alex, Melbourne
and his promising career as an architect in order to prove himself as
a painter. Bo recalled the canvases he had done of Alex: a full-length
reclining figure on a couch, an East Malvern, fully-clothed Duchess of
Alba. She had ignored his pleas to take a more professional approach
to her modelling; he’d had to imagine the form which discreetly
shaped her clothes. Then there were two portraits of Alex done in
Meidrum’s iron-handed style. Her face was still the mixture of pretti-
ness and strength, of hawklike grey eyes set over a convent girl’s
unexceptional features which had altogether eluded his inflexible tech-
nique. He did not know how he would capture that quality now, but
the question was academic: his painting had gone beyond the human.
Bo enjoyed situation he had
engineered...at last moralistic
Melbourne was confronted by his
warm Rome.


As Alex answered his banter by teasing him about his artistic
pretensions. Bo insisted that she come home with him. Slamming the
Legation gate behind her, Alex asked why he spent his Sunday after-
noons choir singing, but as his answer, that the afternoon tea was his
first meal in four days, was an obvious improvisation, she tried
another tack; she commended his patriotism in wearing a navy-blue,
pencil stripe, double-breasted, wide-legged suit that would have been
out of fashion even when he left Australia five years ago.
“It’s my Legation special—if I didn’t wear it once a year only
Frank Clune would.”
A bus carried them from Parioli to Piazza del Popolo as Alex
asked if Bo's success was such that he could eat only at the Legation's
expense.
“Thereby hangs a pig’s tail.”
As they walked to his apartment Bo explained that a Texan
millionaire who had seen his work in London had offered to support
him so long as he sent toy pigs back to Texas.
“It works, it works.” said 80. anticipating her incredulity, “but
by now it’s hard to find anything new in toy pigs, and his cheques
aren't as big as Texas.” Alex had dozens of questions about this
patron, but 80. spurred by a secret excitement, turned into a dark
doorway, took the stairs two at a time in front of her until they were
on the second floor and then unlocked a thick door. When Alex,
breathless, joined him in the hallway he unlocked a further door and
stood aside to let her enter.
AT first, as the window shutters were closed. Alex could discern only
a table, a sideboard against the near wall and a bookcase by
the door, but as her eyes adapted to the light she saw a long-haired
girl, her upslanting eyes heavy with sleep, rise from a bed in the far
corner. The girl threw back the bedclothes, walked, nude, to 80,
still standing at the door, and kissed him full on the lips as if implant-
ing a seal of possession. Bo enjoyed it hugely; not so much the kiss
as the situation he had engineered. At last colorless, moralistic
Melbourne was confronted with his warm Rome. Alex set her hand-
bag on the table and crossed the red-tiled floor to burst open the
shutters as if the room was in urgent need of more light and less
sweetness. Turning back, she was assailed by reds, deep blues, blacks
massed even more inchoately than in Bo’s early work, on canvases
finished and half-finished, framed and unframed, hung or propped
against the sideboard and the wall. As the shutters were flung open
Bo's Rome had hastened to slip on briefs, a white dress and a pair
of high-heeled sandals. Her amply feminine body was as strong and
pliant as a man’s.
“We haven't been introduced.” said Alex, “though 1 feel I know
you well.”
Bo introduced Gia who pointed out. with real concern, that
Alex’s suit was paint-stained. In opening the shutters she had leant
against one of Bo’s still-wet canvases, imprinting a red triangle on
the green linen of her suit.
“You always knew what had to be done to set my paintings
right.” said 80.
“You knew what had to be done here. Bo.” As Gia helped her
clean the suit. Alex indicated an unfinished oil painting which had
found a semi-abstract subject ready-made in the Arch of Constantine,
scaffolded while its stonework was being repaired.
Bo eased himself onto the bed section by section like a stick
insect until he could support himself on his elbows as Alex inspected
his work in detail and Gia heated coffee on a gas-ring. Alex admired
the sketches for their draughtsmanship and fresh observation of
Roman life, but she baulked at the abstracts.
“They're just colored Rorscach tests. Bo.”
“Tell me. patient, what do you see there?”
“Unsubtle color, romantic concern with your own feelings, no
statement, self expression.”


“You don’t like Bo’s creations, Alex?” asked Gia in
surprise.
“The only painters she likes are dead enough to be on
a Fine Arts course.”
“Have you had a show here. Bo? You say nothing
with more panache than you did five years ago—it should
sell well.”
“When I do I’ll triumph in your despite, madam —you
and all my carping critics. It will be Der Tag,” he held up
the elongated fingernail of his left hand. “You’ve got to
have money for an exhibition here, that’s why I’ve been
to the pig market; look you here.”
Like a boy extracting a live cicada from his pocket, Bo
brought out a black bone piglet which balanced on its hind
legs and had two twists in its pert tail. Gloating, he sang:
“. . . the duffer’s piece of ground free selected on the
Numerella shore.”
He scoffed at Alex’s fear that the Legation would
investigate the theft (“another one of these and I can book
Schneider’s for an exhibition —it will be such a success
the Minister will beg me to dine at the Legation; he’ll sit
there in his yachting jacket and we’ll laugh our heads off
at the story of how I fianced my memorable show —that
anecdote will carry him through cocktail parties for the
rest of the year, so picturesque, so audacious—‘and this
Texan, is his money in oil?’ —I can hear him now”) and
ignored Gia, who, with the pig cupped in her hands,
lamented the journey it would have to make to unknown
Texas.
While they drank coffee, Gia and Alex became an
audience for 80, who expounded his theory of art, or,
rather, explained why he must shortly win renown. He
had only two styles of talk and one of silence —boredom.
His talk was either facetious and fantastic or, as at present,
long-winded and didactic. It was a manner he would grow
into: at 70 people would excuse it as a defect of his years.
When Bo had finished he swapped “how-they-finished”
stories with Alex about mutual acquaintances: Mathieson,
the med. student Bo had displaced as Alex’s major interest,
was now a Mildura doctor whose wife had borne triplets;
Pauline, Bo’s friend, who had gained first-class philosophy
honors in Sydney was now operating from London as a
prostitute with cultural interests; Rothesay, memorable be-
cause he circulated the Lygon Street pubs asking students
“It’s no good — there’s a fly in it.”
could they imagine the smile of Christ, had received most
complimentary rejection slips for a novel. It had even been
praised by E. M. Forster, who read the manuscript after
Rothesay forced his way into his home . . . The architecture
students who had been Bo’s contemporaries were now
mainly well-heeled and married just as the majority of arts
students Alex had known had been engulfed by Melbourne’s
suburbia, but that Roman afternoon Bo pursued their
careers as if they provided a measure for his achievement.
Alex could not satisfy his desire to know what all these
people thought of him. but it was clear that Gia, yawning
in an armchair, found Bo a bore when he was so taken with
a past unknown to her. There were no signs of preparations
for dinner, the bed remained unmade and warm, Gia was
motionless, Bo self-absorbed, and Alex had a sense of
returning home after a long journey only to find that nothing
had changed. She wondered whether the reds of Bo’s
paintings burnt in the black of night.
A LEX next saw 80, by chance, at the Porta Portese flea
market one Sunday morning when the tramontana blew
sharp as a gimlet. She was wandering among the stalls set
near the Tiber bank when she came upon a group gathered
around a pair bartering. The taller was dressed in black
trousers and a black shirt which most Italians would hesi-
tate to wear, and, even from a distance, his hair-flicking
identified him. When she came up with the group she saw
that he held what must have been a Florentine boar in his
hand and was ridiculing the merchant’s claim that it was
carved from alabaster. Each of the listeners had his own
opinion on the origin and value of the future but, as Bo was
the only one who offered money, the merchant grudgingly
agreed to exchange it for 5000 lire, plus some sketches of
the market which Bo was to deliver the following Sunday.
Bo was exultant when Alex congratulated him on his barter-
ing skill: “Dis little piggy from de market will open
Schneider’s to me.”
“It’s a pity to send him away.”
“A corker porker, my little chickadee,” growled 80,
W. C. Fields-style. holding the boar balanced on the hand
of his outstretched arm, “no ham would be as profitable as
your cold flesh.”
“Will keep your promise over the sketches?” Alex
compressed her lips in a way he had never liked.
“You saw those half-dozen small rectangular frames
on the sideboard? I’ll do a scene for each of those as soon
as I have time.”
“That fellow probably needs the lire he’ll pick up for
your sketches next week.”
“You’re not going to enjoy yourself in Italy if you keep
in a cold sweat about beggars and can’t swallow your
spaghetti for thoughts of the south.”
Alex stopped by the stall selling American shirts which
had been stolen from laundries.
“But this is not in the south —he’ll be waiting here next
Sunday and most likely be in real need.”
Her voice quavered as she tried to control it.
“Please kneel and we will pray for the souls of
parishioners recently deceased . . .” Intoning these words
with his hands joined and head bent. Bo did look excessively
clerical.
Alex stamped her foot. “You’ve got his boar, will you
have the sketches here next Sunday?”
“Jees, what is it? The Jansenist agenbite? Are you
trying to offload your guilt complexes on to me? The nuns
did a proper job on you, Alex —you’ll never drown out
that questioning voice.”
“Neither can you. Otherwise you’d be nothing more
than a jellyfish.”
The crowd around the stall had turned to watch diat
they, with their quick understanding, said was a lover’s
quarrel between the blond foreigners.


“Promise me you’ll bring them Sunday without fail.”
She demanded with her no-nonsense eyes as well as
with her words; Bo could see her wearing a floral hat, in a
few years’ time, while shopping for her family on Saturday
morning in Chapel Street. He gave his promise and the
bargain hunters returned to pick over the shirts speculating
on what had made the girl so impassioned all of a sudden.
In reply to Bo’s question as to whether she was on duty at
the market as a social worker, Alex explained that she had
found it while walking aimlessly after Mass. They had
reached the exit and Bo invited Alex to eat with him at a
nearby trattoria.
“Where’s Gia?”
“Asleep. She’s tired after early morning service . . .”
That was the lead in to his lunch-time lecture which
was more indigestible than the lumpy white gnocchi the
trattoria served. He talked so steadily about Gia that Alex
began a silent comparison of her features with those of the
Italian girl’s, but before she had completed her invidious
inventory she realised that Bo was not merely rhapsodising
about Gia, he was announcing another polemical pro-
gramme: 80, it seemed, saw not Gia, but a “case” which
enabled him to dogmatise on the differences between Aus-
tralian and Italian women. He cited her as a woman taught
since childhood that she must satisfy a man, whereas Aus-
tralian women, who competed with men. had diminished
femininity. “Gia,” said 80, “moves inevitably towards a
man, she can’t stop herself. I’m lucky to be here at that
stage of evolution when the Italian woman is moving away
from the tyranny of the family.”
The smug male pride, added to his usual gimcrack
theorising, inspired Alex to invent some pretext to escape.
trOWEVER, before the week was out she met Bo again.
This time she was dining in the Cafe dei Greci, one of
the restaurants close enough to via Margutta for it to be
patronised mainly by foreign art students and those few
Italians who believe in the existence of a mythical Italy
where all is art, beauty and love, love, love. When Bo and
Gia joined her he was so full of talk of his approaching
exhibition it was only at the end of the meal that he dis-
covered Alex was eating there because she was earning so
little from English lessons. He suggested it might do her
good (“you could learn a lot from Gia”) if she came to live
in their apartment; he would be fully occupied in the
coming weeks preparing for the exhibition which would
make his name. Alex accepted the offer mainly because of
her interest in Gia, whose quick sympathy showed she
eluded Bo's vision of her as a stage in the evolution of
Italian womanhood.
Alex and Gia spent many hours together as Alex waited
for pupils and Gia waited for 80, who closed himself in
his room to work now that the opening day, March 15, was
only a month away. Bo found the arrangement whereby
Alex entertained Gia during the day and he resumed posses-
sion each evening a convenient one. He ignored their grow-
ing friendship except to remark that Alex was becoming
more and more like Gia: she was carrying her hair long
like the Italian girl, going without make-up and wearing
some of Gia’s clothes. Alex found Gia an appealing mixture
of sophistication and naivety: she was clear-sighted about
Bos’ defects, his moodiness, his stiff-necked reluctance to
admit any mistakes, his ruthlessness, but she took his artistic
and intellectual pretensions at their face value. After Bo
had reclaimed Gia each night, Alex lay in her solitary bed
and pondered the fact that although Gia was well aware of
Bo’s defects, she still found her relationship with him
worthwhile.
As the opening approached and he still did not have
enough canvases to fill Schneider’s walls. Bo became
increasingly impatient with Gia. Late on the night of the
fifth Alex heard them quarrel spectacularly: Bo’s shouting
What do you say we make a start — they've
had a good knock-up !”
would have been heard in the Vatican, while Gia passed
through successive climaxes of rage. She threw everything
handy at Bo’s head and would have wrecked his work if
he had not wrestled her from the room shouting that she
could return only after his show had started. Alex had not
seen Gia’s beauty to better advantage than when she entered
her room afire with anger. As she helped to make up a
second bed for Gia. Alex had one thought: Bo's fashionably
incoherent paintings would sell well, in two weeks he could
reclaim Gia, who was unlikely to harbor her resentment for
long, and he would thus be confirmed in his vainest claims.
Bo became desperate as he discarded one canvas after
another. He constantly woke at night with his mind debat-
ing problems of the several paintings he had under way.
With the opening day only a week off he was sufficiently
keyed-up to rush to the window and abuse anyone shouting
in the lane below or to order the drivers who delivered to
the banana storehouse opposite to cease revving their truck
engines. Anxiety made him rush his work, although his best
canvases were achieved when he found each detail worthy
of attention, for then the painting was engendered by its
own dynamic and in its own terms. He looked six-eyed at
all his efforts: as well as making his own judgments, he
imagined the reactions of Alex and Gia when he would
escort them to his exhibition to confound one and delight
the other.
He spent the last two nights at the gallery working
savagely, but his efforts were rewarded: the pre-opening
reservations of his work were so promising that he hastened
home in order to bring Alex and Gia to Schneider's. As soon
as he entered the apartment he realised it was empty. A large
envelope stood propped on the table in his room. The
drawing paper it contained had two sentences written in
deep-blue paint: “THE NEXT STAGE IN THE EVOLU-
TION OF THE ITALIAN WOMAN IS INDEPEND-
ENCE FROM THE MALE,” and, in smaller letters,
“scenes from provincial life illustrates why this leetle piggy
got none ...”
Then he noticed the six small rectangular frames in
which he had intended to sketch his Roman scenes. They
faced the wall and drawing paper had been tacked into
each of them. He turned the first around and saw a sketch
of Alex and Gia hitch-hiking a ride in a car bound for
Florence. In the next he found a Florentine boar discussing
with a Porta Portese merchant the price of the pig-faced
Bo he held in his hand. The execution was poor but the
subjects were recognisable. He turned the others around one
by one: the third showed a 80-faced pig gorging on food in
the Legation reception room and the others featured the
same porker in various circumstances. Bo ripped the first
drawing out and on the back of it set himself to sketch
the Porta Portese market as if this were a kind of magic
which could recover what had been lost.


Commonwealth Banking Corporation
BALANCE-SHEET as at 30th June, 1961
30th June,
£
5,729,280
54,209
5,783,489
1960 LIABILITIES 30th June, 1961
£
Deferred liabilities on staff account 5,905,552
All other liabilities (including amounts
provided for contingencies) .. .. 370
Total
5,905,922
STATEMENT OF INCOME AND EXPENDITURE FOR YEAR ENDED 30lh JUNE, 1961
(Signed) CLIVE THOMPSON (Secretary)
(Signed) S. J. HEATLEY (Chief Accountant )
For and on behalf of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation Board.
(Signed) WARREN D. McDONALD (Chairman)
(Signed) E. B. RICHARDSON (Managing Director)
Sydney, 17th August, 1961
Commonwealth Trading Bank of Australia
BALANCE-SHEET as at 30th June, 1981
30th June,
£
7,429,000
3,539,782
5,601,703
338,254,735
354,825,220
1960 LIABILITIES 30th June, 1961
Capital
Commonwealth Trading Bank Reserve
Fund
Balances due to other banks
Deposits, bills payable and all other
Labilities (including amounts pro-
vided for contingencies)
£
7,429,000
3,874,859
471,251
348,309,277
Total
360,084,387
30th June,
£
16.635,653
1,625,000
2,000,000
58,738.711
1,298,090
131,250
2,336,317
1,725,000
46,573,000
8,670,024
146,878,054
3,039,392
63,635,096
1,539,633
1960
ASSETS
30th
Coin, bullion, notes and cash at bankers
Money at short call overseas
Australian public securities (at cost less amounts written off)
(a) Commonwealth and States —
(i) Treasury bills
(ii) Other securities
(b) Local and semi-governmental authorities
Other public securities (at cost)
Other securities (at cost less amounts written off)
Loans to authorised dealers in the short-term money market
Statutory Reserve Deposit Account with Reserve Bank ..
Cheques and bills of other banks and balances with and due
from other banks
Loans, advances and bills discounted (after deducting pro-
visions for debts considered bad or doubtful
Bank premises(at cost less amounts written off) ..
Bills receivable' and remittances in transit
All other assets
June, 1961
£
15,267,977
4,250,000
2,000,000
68,287,1 19
3,068,992
2,411,192
3,450,000
37,383,000
13,540,043
147,572,799
3,143,907
58,058,775
1,650,583
354,825,220
Total
.. 360,084,387
STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS FOR YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1961
(Signed) L. A. McWATTERS (General Manager )
(Signed) S. J. HEATLEY (Chief Accountant)
For and on behalf of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation Board.
(Signed) WARREN D. McDONALD ( Chairman )
(Signed) E. B. RICHARDSON (Managing Director )
Sydney, 17th August, 1961


Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia
BALANCE-SHEET as at 30th June, 1961
30th June,
1,119,130
88,525.000
10,261,210
1 ,000,000
494,934,320
88,923.810
995,967
825.000
136,095,906
11.537,314
295.904
7,803,180
842,316,741
1960 ASSETS 30th June, 1961
£ £
Coin, bullion and notes .. .. .. .. 1,334,415
Deposits with Reserve Bank .. . , 88,450,000
Deposits in Australia with trading banks .. .. .. 11,731,011
Australian public securities (at cost less amounts written oft)
(a) Commonwealth and States —
(i) Treasury bills .. .. 1,500,000
(ii) Other securities .. .. .. .. .. 491,115,933
(b) Local and semi-governmental authorities .. .. 95,681,742
Other public securities (at cost less amounts written off) .. 934,193
Loans to authorised dealers in the short-term money market 3,280,000
Loans and advances (after deducting provisions for debts
considered bad or doubtful) .. .. .. .. 148,394,212
Bank premises (at cost less amounts written off) ~ .. 13,146,307
Bills receivable and remittances in transit .. .. 535,060
All other assets .. .. .. .. .. .. 8,144,630
Total 864,247,503
STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS FOR YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1961
£
12.239,668
12.239,668
1.892,887
'
Discount arid interested earned, net exchange, commissions £
and other items (including transfers from contingencies
accounts), after deducting interest paid and accrued on
deposits, rebate on bills current at balance date, amounts
written off assets and losses on realisation of assets and
transfers to the credit of contingencies accounts (out of
which accounts provisions for all bad and doubtful debts
have been made) .. .. .. .. .. 12,702,851
Totai .. 12,702,851
Balance brought down as above .. .. .. 2,183,948
2,183,943
1,892,887
Total
(Signet): I. R. NORMAN (General Manager)
(Signed) S .1. HKATLEY (Chiej Accountant)
Svdnkv, L7tli August, 1901
For and on behalf of the Commonwealth Banking- Corporation Board.
(Signed) WARREN 1). Me DONALD ( Chairman )
(Signed) E. B. RICHARDSON (Managing Director)
Commonwealth Development Bank of Australia
BALANCE-SHEET as at 30th June, 1961
30th June, 1960
ASSETS
30th
£
538,275
9,639,256
422,337
100,000
147,000
33,578,507
147,412
44,592,787
Coin, bullion, notes and cash at bankers
Australian public securities (at cost less amounts written oti)
(a) Commonwealth and States —
(i) Treasury bilis
(ii) Other securities
Other securities (at cost price lor secuiities with a maturity
date and at the lower of cost or assessed market price
lor other securities)
Loans to authorised dealers in the short-term money market
Cheques and bills of other banks and balances with and due
from other banks
Loans, advances and bills discounted (after deducting pro-
visions for debts considered bad or doubtful)
All other assets
Total
June, 1961
£
490,473
4,339,392
411,207
200,000
208,424
39,437,685
111,826
45,199,007
STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS FOR YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1961
(Signed) B. B. CALLAGHAN {General Manager) For and on behalf of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation Board.
(Signed) S; J. HEATLEY {Chief Accountant) (Signed) WARREN D. MoDONALD {Chairman)
Sydney, 17th August, 1901 (Signed) E. B. RICHARDSON (Managing Director)
The Auditor-General for the Commonwealth, Mr, y. J. W. Skermer, lias reported that the above Statements show fairly the financial operations of the Corporation and the
Trading- Bank, Savings Bank and Development Bank during the year ended 30th June, 1961, and the state of affairs at that date.


ii
COMPLETE
PROTECTION
PROTECT YOUR FAMlLY-
enquire about the^
FAMILY
INCOME
BENEFIT
provided by the
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
Metropolitan Building,
Hunter and Bligh Sts., Sydney.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
PETROCHEMICALS
The Interlocked Giants
Recently a group of journalists visited the newest petro-
chemical plant in Australia. The reporters trampled over
Shell’s huge oil refinery at Clyde, near Sydney, and were taken
on a conducted tour of the “Epikote” epoxy resin plant,
geared to produce about 1000 tons a year.
In the past decade Australia has succeeded in laying the
foundations of a new major industry—petrochemicals. There
are seven refineries in operation and two more are in the
planning stage. This has been accomplished largely with the
help of foreign capital, attracted to Australia by high earning
rates, political stability and attractive long-run market oppor-
tunities. Managements of the giant international oil concerns
obviously feel that these advantages more than offset our rela-
tively high labor costs.
Oil refineries provide the vital raw and semi-raw materials
for the manufacture of a wide range of chemicals. Petroleum
Information Bureau (Australia) points out that the only
alternative source of raw materials —natural gas—has not yet
been located in Australia in sufficient quantities.
At present there are 19 petrochemical plants in operation,
under construction or in the last planning stages in Australia.
The total cost is estimated at £5O million.
The two biggest plants—at Altona in Victoria and at
Clyde in N.S.W. —are directly connected with oil refineries.
Five separate but closely interconnected plants are almost
completed at Altona. Total capital outlay is about £2B million.
In addition, the Altona refinery produces elemental sulphur.
Nearby is a £2 million carbon black plant, which has been
operating since June, 1959.
The pattern of financial and technological interlocking,
which characterises the development for the Australian petro-
chemical industry seems to be as difficult as the tongue-
breaking technical names used.
The major interest in the Altona complex is held by Altona
Petrochemical Company Pty Ltd, a subsidiary of Vacuum Oil,
which has a £l3 million ethylene and butadiene plant.
The other four plants will use these two basic semi-raw
materials for the production of styrene monomer, ethylene
dichloride, synthetic rubber, polyethylene and polyvinyl
chloride. These four smaller plants are owned by C.S.R.C.-
Dow Pty Ltd (in which Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd has
a substantial share), Australian Synthetic Rubber Co Pty Ltd
(in which Vacuum Oil holds a majority interest), United
Carbide (40 per cent, of the shares owned by Australian inves-
tors) and B. F. Goodrich-C.S.R. Chemicals Pty Ltd (60 per
cent, share interest held by B. F. Goodrich Chemical Co. of
U.S.).
Shell Chemical (Australia) Pty Ltd operates a petrochemi-
cal plant at Shell’s Geelong (Vic.) refinery for the production
of sulphuric acid and detergent alkylate. Shell’s Clyde (N.S.W.)
refinery manufactures epoxy resins and will soon produce
ethylene for 1.C.1.A.N.Z. polyethelene plant.
The Matraville petrochemical plant in N.S.W. is based
on BORAL’s oil refinery. BORAL’s subsidiary, Petrochemical
Holdings Ltd, has a 45 per cent, capital interest in the oil
cracking plant at Silverwater in N.S.W. The other 55 per cent,
is owned by Monsanto Chemical Co. of U.S. The Caltex oil
group has a very substantial share in BORAL (Bitumen and
Oil Refineries (Aust.) Ltd, itself.
Some of the international struggles and alliances of the
great world oil concerns are reflected here in Australia. Thus
successful Soviet attempts to force down the international prices
for paraffin wax were felt by the industry in Australia. Pro-
ducers were aided by the decrease in costs of paraffin wax,
but suppliers of raw materials were hard pressed by the reduc-
tion.
Moreover, the oil giants fear being left behind in the com-
petitive race around the world. This, in part, accounts for
the sudden rush of the major oil groups to establish a firm
footing in Australia as soon as one of the rival companies
made a penetration. The immediate market position of the
petrochemicals industry is rather difficult, because of the severe
competition and the natural limitations of the Australian
market.
The lifting of import restrictions has made things tough
for some products. Although the international concerns do not
compete against their own subsidiaries or associate companies,
their respective rivals do, and the net result is a large inflow
of imported chemicals. However, long-term prospects appear
to be reasonable, especially if the export hopes are realised.
TOURISTS
ANTA's £23m. Hopes
The energetic Australian National Travel Association
(ANTA) expects that some 120,000 overseas travellers will
visit Australia in 1962, spending about £23 million. “The
association is confident that these figures can be raised to
187,000 and £36 million by 1965.”
ANTA’s chairman, Mr John Bates, says in his annual
report that “modern-day travel has diminished Australia’s
remoteness. A new era for tourism in our country is now well


Travel
Wherever you go, the “Wales” can be a
willing and expert companion. The Travel
Department will plan your itinerary, book
your passage, and assist with reservations,
accommodation, passport, visas, and taxa-
tion clearances. THERE IS NO EXTRA
CHARGE.
And carry “Wales” travellers’ cheques
they’re more convenient and much
safer than cash.
You can bank on the “Wales”.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(incorporated in new south wales with limited liability)
A6124C
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established ISIS
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLAS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS
A. C MAITLAND, Managing Director. R. A. CATLEY, Manager.
Branches In all States Agencies In ail Country Centres
under way." In 1960-61 over 84,000 overseas tourists visited
Australia —an increase of 24.2 p.c. on “short-term arrivals*’
in the previous year. Foreign travellers spent about £l6
million in Australia, but there was still a gap of some £2O
million in the tourist balance of payments.
Statistics presented by ANTA show that last year the
84,000 foreign tourists were brought to Australia by 40
shipping lines and ten major airlines. Their average length of
stay was 26 days and the average daily rate of spending £7 ss.
]n addition, there were 5600 cruise passengers.
Direct spending by all visitors exceeded £l6 million,
generating some £5O million in business activity throughout
Australia. Of this about £9 million was paid out in wages —
to about 9000 employees —and an estimated £5 million found
its way into the Commonwealth Government’s coffers in
direct and indirect taxes.
ANTA's annual report says an additional £6 million was
earned from fares collected by Qantas and from international
shipping companies stocking up in Australian ports.
It seems that Australia’s main problem remains adequate
tourist accommodation. A number of good hotels were built
recently and the motel industry is developing at a fairly rapid
pace. However, many country areas—which could be made
attractive to overseas visitors —still have very meagre accom-
modation and transport facilities.
There is a good deal of concentration on promoting such
tourist industry pearls as Surfers Paradise and Coolangatta —
Australia’s Gold Coast is a major attraction and a good money-
spinner. Sydney beaches also come in for a good deal of
travel promotion. But big-game hunting in the Northern
Territory, fishing on the N.S.W. South Coast and the winter
sports do not seem to get enough publicity abroad.
There has been rapid development in the Australian snow-
fields over the past ten years. Many old hands are bemoaning
the advance of commercialism —often justifiably —but this
aspect is inevitable. Investments must pay for themselves.
A lot of capital has been put into establishing first-class chalets
and winter resorts in the Perisher Valley, Kiandra, Thredbo
and Smiggins Holes in N.S.W. and at Mt Baffler, Falls Creek
and Mt Hotham in Victoria.
In N.S.W. the skiing season lasts from early June to the
middle of October, and the winter resorts are well patronised.
They have quite a few tourists in summer months, when trout
fishing is a major attraction. But these things are little known
abroad. Not enough emphasis is placed on the great range of
tourist attractions offered by Australia. An overseas tourist
with about £lOO to spend in a fortnight —a very modest sum
by American standards —can spend a week on the Gold Coast
and a week in the snowfields and see a bit of the country in
between.
This is the type of variety in entertainment that even the
Hawaiian Islands cannot match.
The Commonwealth Government is assisting ANTA by
an outright subsidy, expected to reach about £170,000 during
the current financial year. This figure may seem a bit modest,
seeing that overseas tourists can become a really major source
of foreign exchange earnings. ANTA is doing a good general
tourist promotion job, and also produces “Walkabout,” a
monthly travel magazine with subscribers in 62 countries.
There is close contact with State Governments and travel
agencies. Last year assistance from State and other non-
Commonwealth sources amounted to £50,172. Canberra is
matching these contributions on a £-for-£ basis.
Mr Bates feels that New Zealand will remain Australia’s
main tourist market for the next six or seven years. After-
wards American touristi are expected to take the lead.
ANTA is now trying to establish direct representation in
Tokyo or Hong Kong, and has expanded its Pacific Area Travel
Association (PATA) and International Union of Official Travel
Organisations (IUOTO) links. It is to be hoped that more
attention will also be directed at establishing good footholds in
New Caledonia and the New Hebrides.
One of the current headaches which ANTA is trying to
remove is income tax clearance for non-earning visitors. Mr
Basil Atkinson, ANTA’s general manager, says that “few
countries still retain this annoying formality for tourists.”


PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
R. H. ALLEN. M. R. L. DOWLING
P. R. LEVY. A. P. REYNOLDS. N. R.
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner).
Delfin House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building. 150 Queen St.,
Melbourne. 67-595'} (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: "Rosdale,” Sydney
Melbourne or Wollongong.
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT. A. C. DRAPER,
N. \Y C. DRAPER
(Members o) Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 P.O. BOX
<4 Lines) No. 1887YV
JOHN N. ROBERTSON
Member of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHAKE BKOKEIi
Temple Court,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne C.l
Telephones: 67 4804, 67 2465
Telegrams & Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Elder, Smith and Co., Limited
Tts story reaching back to the first half
of the 19th century and its name a
household word, Elder, Smith and Co.
Ltd is by far the largest woolbroker and
stock and station agent in Australia. The
co. has interests in all States (there are
209 branches and sub-branches in Aus-
tralia) and also in Great Britain. Its
geographical breadth gives it an insurance
against seasonal difficulties, and its sub-
stantial shipping, chartering, insurance,
airways and general merchandising
activities are also stabilisers.
The 1960-61 wool selling season opened
disappointingly, with the weak trend
noticeable in late June, 1960, continuing
downwards throughout July and August.
Values at the main sales in late August
were from 10 to 17 p.c. lower (varying
by qualities) than those ruling at the
end of June. This easing tendency con-
tinued, with minor recoveries, until the
end of October, when a low point was
reached, fully p.c. below the reduced
rates of late June, 1960. The market
then steadied around this low level, with
minor fluctuations, until the end of
January last. Early February sales
brought the first signs of a firming
tendency and stronger demand. While
prices edged upwards in consequence, it
was not until mid-March that the market
began to show real life, with noticeable
improvement in prices. Fortunately,
values continued to improve and, by the
end of June, were fully back to June,
1960 levels—in fact, slightly better.
Thus the golden fleece tabled a much
drabber fibre in the 12 months to June
30 last, the average price of wool, greasy
and scoured, Australian-wide, dropping
9.88 p.c. to 52.20 pence per lb., compared
with 57.92 pence per lb. in the 1959-60
wool-selling season. Total receipts of
wool into brokers’ stores pressed out a
reduced 4,715,343 bales as against the
preceding tally of 4,925,606 bales, Aus-
tralia’s greatest clip ever. Sales rang in
at 4,755,482 bales (down 173,745 bales),
aggregate proceeds skirting in, finally, a
lack-lustre £314,479,811, representing a
decrease of £44,949,679, or some 13 p.c.
less than in the previous season, a long
way short of the record shed,£4B3 million,
gathered in in 1956-57: —
Average
Bales Sold. Value. Per Bale.
1956- .. 4,886,561 £482,859,860 £9B 16 3
1957- .. 4,374,694 336,770,554 77 4 3
1958- . . 4,790,282 295,652,526 61 14 5
1959- . . 4,929,227 359,429,490 72 18 4
1960- . . 4,755,482 314,479,811 66 2 7
Elder's past year can be considered as
“reasonably satisfactory” despite diffi-
culties. Lower wool values and a sub-
stantial reverse in merchandising, sub-
sequent to the credit squeeze, plus
increased costs, especially labor costs, all
took their toll. But expansion and
diversification of interests paid off and if
1959-60 profits are adjusted for tax (to
the new rates) the last term’s perform-
ance registers a slight improvement on
the earlier effort.
In the 12 months trading to June 30
last, Elder’s handled 779,472 bales of
wool (up 311 bales and an all-time record)
equal to 16.53 p.c. of all wool receivals,
and sold 763,110 bales (down 6582 bales),
equal to 16.47 p.c. of all wool sales. But
lower wool prices cut wool turnover by
upwards of 8.5 p.c., to return the co. only
£52,654,347, as against £57,567,882 in
1959-60 and £74,186,213 in 1956-57:
1959. 1960. 1961.
Wool .. .. £45,808,565 £57,567,882 £52,654,347
Merchandise . . 20,814,364 23,309,074 24,700,155
Livestock . . 31,471,888 34,908,766 39,908,886
Real estate . . 4,952,499 6,653,639 7,112,191
Skins and hides 1,769,263 2,181,348 1,692,511
However, in the livestock, merchandising,
insurance, shipping, travel and finance
departments turnover was advanced, in
each instance, to break all previous
records. Higher prices were obtained for
sheep, cattle and pigs, merchandise busi-
ness improved despite difficult conditions
in the rural field, restricted finance, etc.,
and a marked fall away in the industrial
market in the second half of the year,
insurance premiums benefited the
increased branch influence of “our newer
organisations of Victoria, N.S.W. and
Queensland,” premium income lifting
13.9 p.c. (£135,916) to £1,114,307, ship-
ping revenues responded to increased
freight bookings and the addition of the
MANZ, Orient and British India
(Homeward)Lines agencies (in addition
to established agencies for other British
Dutch and Swedish principals), and the
travel department, acting as agent or
booking-agent for most Australian and
principal overseas shipping- and air-lines,
boosted turnover 35 p.c.
In other departments: sales of both
sheepskins and hides were well main-
tained, number-wise, but turnover
declined by £48,837, or 23 p.c., to
£l,692,sll,reflecting lower wool values;
chartering activity showed little improve-
ment, but with the world-wide shipping
depression unabated, this was to be
expected; sales of land and property
improved slightly advancing £458,552 to
£7,112,191 yet “the availability of long-
term mortgage money for property trans-
actions has been a problem and looks as
though it will continue to be one.”
All, in all, total turnover, all
departments, advanced £3,142,440 to
£133,998,297, a figure exceeded only once
before in Elder’s history. The increase
is attributable, almost entirely, to the
record results established in the merchan-
dising and livestock sections. Published
accounts, parent co. only, show gross
income from trading £1,076,873 higher
at £9,054,866, and investment income
down £155,057 at £237,112. Costs,
strictly controlled, continued their
upward march, wages, etc., claiming an
extra £447,867 and expenses, including
interest, advertising, directors fees, etc.,
an extra £304,755.
The £677,391 profit (down £25,058),
after land, income and payroll tax
£942,115 (down £2367) and depreciation
£569,693 (up £15,874) represented a
return on share-capital of 12.6 p.c. com-
pared with 13.1 p.c., 11.9 p.c., 13.2 p.c.,
16.6 p.c., 16.1 p.c. and 20.8 p.c. back to
1955, the div.-rate remaining at 10 p.c.
in accord with the lower earnings:
Parent Co. Only.
To He- tte-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1956.. 797,783 11 pc. = 545,254 252.529 4,291,683
To provident fund, £38,431 .. .. 4,253,252
Share-premiums, i: 285,732 .. ..4,538,984
1957.. 882,542 12 p.c. = 636,547 245,995 4.784,979
To provident fund, £25,805 .. .. 4,759.174
Share-premiums, £18,013 .. ..4,777,187
1958.. 705,121 10 p.c. = 532,660 172,461 4,949,648
To provident fund, £13,151 .. . . 4,936,497
Share-premiums, £4973 .. .. 4,941,470
1959.. 633,847 10 p.c. = 533,666 100,181 5,041,651
Share-premiums, £28,030 .. ..5,069,681
1960.. 702,449 10 p.c. = 535,366 167,083 5.236.764
Share-premiums, £17,333 . . . . 5,254,097
Tax underprovided, £54,000 .. ..5,200,097
1961.. 677,391 10 p.c. = 538,141 139,250 5,339,347
In 122 years of trading Elder’s has only


iMebtcal pmeftis Jjmtfr
of JVustralta ICumti'h
A mutual nan-profit organisation limited by guarantee.
Registered under the National Health Act.
REPORT OF THE HONORARY COUNCIL, FOR THE
FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1961
Adopted by the Annual Meeting of the Association held on the Sixth Floor,
255-262 George Street, Sydney, on Saturday, 7th October, 1961.
The Council has pleasure in presenting the Fifteenth Annual Report and Financial
Statements for the year ended 30th June, 1961.
DEVELOPMENT
New contributors continued to join throughout the year and tens of thousands of
existing contributors transferred to the higher benefit tables, medical TABLE J and
hospital TABLE 48. Membership increased to 2,500,000,
Decentralisation of its enrolment and contribution activities through more than
10,000 employee-groups and chemist-agencies is a most important feature of the Fund.
Thus the general public ean readily qualify for National Health Benefits. Employers
generally recognise the importance' of voluntary health insurance and encourage this
form of self-help by enabling their employees to have contributions deducted from pay.
A number of employers subsidise contributions.
BLUE CROSS ASSOCIATION
The Fund is a member of the Blue Cross Association of Australia, which is the
co-ordinating body of the major non-profit health insurance funds in the Common-
wealth. Through its affiliation with Blue Cross, the Fund participates in a membership
transfer reciprocity agreement with the American Blue Cross Association operating
in the U.S.A. and Canada.
Blue Cress also provides an interstate tranfer reciprocity agreement where Fund
members who take up residence in another State and join an affiliated fund may
preserve their benefit rights.
BENEFITS
The benefits history of the Fund is the most compelling evidence of its value to
the community. Contributors and their families have received benefits totalling more
than £38,800,000 since the Fund’s inception. The following figures reflect the rate of
increase in benefits paid over the last five years:
Increase on
Year Ended Total Benefits Previous Year
30/6/67 £6,643,800 £1,288,800
30/6 58 £7,916,000 £1,272,200
30 6/59 .. .. .. £9,525,500 £1,609,500
30 6/60 £11,103,900 £1.578,400
30/6/61 £12,571,800 £1,467,900
The total benefits payout of £12,571,800 last year represents an increase of 13%
over the previous year. This substantial increase was .caused by membership expansion,
higher benefits and greater utilization of hospital and medical services.
Payment of small straightforward medical claims in cash over the counter, a feature
of Fund service almost unique in insurance of any kind, enabled the immediate settle-
ment of 40% of all medical claims. Other medical and hospital claims were settled
promptly by cheque. During the year 10 additional cash claims offices were opened in
country and outer suburban areas. There are now 47 district offices and more are pro-
jected when suitable staff are trained and premises become available.
ADMINISTRATION
The Fund provides employment for 1,044 persons in three States.
Administrative expenses for the year absorbed only 13.4% of income despite increase's
in salary awards and higher costs of goods and services.
In New South Wales a non-profit management company was formed to act as
managing agent for the associated Funds, The Hospitals Contribution Fund of N.S.W.
and the N.S.W. Branch of Medical Benefits Fund of Australia. This will permit a closer
integration of administrative processes and so improve service to contributors, simplify
claims procedures and streamline the agency and group structures.
Also in New South Wales the Fund’s new building is nearing completion. The staff
in Sydney has been scattered over 6 locations and this has inevitably led to reduced
efficiency and duplication of effort.
CHRONIC AILMENTS
During the year the Fund continued to operate “Special’’ Accounts for medical and
hospital benefits in accordance with the provisions of the National Health Act, Briefly,
the arrangement provides that a fund may transfer to the Special Account persons
claiming benefit for a pre-existing or chronic ailment or upon attaining annual benefit
limits.
The Commonwealth Government underwrites losses in the Special Account, and
in return requires funds to liberalise membership conditions for the remaining con-
tributors. The Special Account has been the means of giving considerable assistance
to the chronically ill.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Assets exceed £3,700,000 of which £2,420,000 are liquid. A contingent asset exists
in respect of Special Account expenditure still to be reimbursed by the Commonwe'alth
Government.
The rising claims expenditure clearly indicates the wisdom of the Council’s action
over the years of establishing strong reserves in the interest of contributors. Council
recommends the transfer of the sum of £319,000 to Claims Reserve, bringing the total
Reserve to £3,047,300 which represents 19/3 per person covered.
APPRECIATION OF SERVICES
The Council expresses its thanks to:
Employers and group secretaries, to receiving agents, chemists and to members
of the medical profession who have co-operated so wholeheartedly in assisting
their employees and the public generally in securing the advantages of mem-
bership with the Fund.
The affiliated Hospitals Contribution Fund of N.S.W. for its valuable assistance.
The Management and Staff, whose untiring efforts and helpfulness to the public
have assisted in building an unparalleled utility which is now a vital part of
the Australian way of life.
RONALD GRIEVE, President.
once failed to pay a div., last term's
10 p.c. leaving the average rate for the
past decade at 10.7 p.c. p.a. Undistributed
profits went to reserves, which, together
with £17,333 of share premiums, but less
tax underprovided in the previous year,
£54,000, rose £102,583 to a visible
£5,339,347.
In the last six years Elder's has
absorbed Commonwealth Wool and
Produce Co. Ltd (Sydney), N.E.N.C.O.
Ltd (Newcastle) and Moreheads Ltd
(Brisbane), along with a number of
smaller woolbroking concerns, and has
almost doubled its all ord. paid capital.
Shareholders were last asked for fresh
funds in 1955, new scrip being offered
(three-for-five) at a 50 p.c. premium.
Last year saw the issue of 34,360
shares at a premium (14,360 shares
to the co.'s staff and 20,000 shares
in the acquisition of a new busi-
ness), the capital structure of the co.
expanding slightly to reach its present
dimension £5,382,555.
Financially the co. is well equipped to
cope with the inevitable fluctuations in
seasonal conditions and price levels:
1959. 1960. 1961.
Paid cuprtat .. £5,337,879 £ 5,361,939 £5,382,555
Reserves .. 5,041,651 5,236,704 5,339,347
Deposit s .. 2,118,011 2.495,994 3,025,835
Creditors .. 15.100.634 16,057,424 16,720,202
Due to subsids. 416,091 250,389
Tax proviOon. . 705,628 812,313 801,535
Final dies. .. 320,272 321,716 322,953
£28,624,075 £39,708,241 £31,842,816
Freehold
properties .. 2,-415,874 2,508,577 2,717,133
Leasehold
properties . . 10,034 22i074 1,335
Plant, fittings. . 648,151 802,197 876,828
Stocks . . 2,206,299 2,368,749 2,988,929
Advances, etc 12,888.391 16,381,920 15.963,877
Due bv sttbsiils. 742,671 34.430 495,236
Shares subsids. 1,181,254 2,011,322 2,363,626
Shares in other
cos. .. 176,719 256,558 499,886
Govt, bonds, cash 7,154.682 6,142.404 5,776,516
Goodwill .. 200,000 1 80,000 169,000
£28,624,075 £30,708,241 £31,842,816
And with completion of the Goulburn
store (the co. is represented now in
nine of Australia’s 10 recognised wool-
selling centres) the co. can look forward
to a future “without the need for further
heavy capital outlay." A programme
of modernisation of country branch
premises has been completed and the
stage set tor increased profitability.
Elder's has expanded its industrial
merchandise, steel and insurance business
in all States and in last term acquired
the “Lister" franchise in S.A.. W.A. and
Victoria. Further diversification during
the year included the acquisition of a
40 p.c. interest in the 50-year-old S.A.
financier Lensworth Finance Ltd, a sub
stantial shareholding in the newly-formed
Commercial Union Assurance Co. of
Australia Ltd and a shareholding interest
in All-States Discount Pty —giving
Elder's an entry into and interest in the
official short term money market. The
co. also joined (in land development)
with Chase International Investment
Corporation (a wholly-owned subsidiary
of the Chase Manhattan Bank of New
York) and American Factors Associates
Ltd, of Honolulu, as the sole Australian
partner in the limited partnership
Esperance Land and Development Com-


V// superbly •*•••••
*•*__ dry... X
f
FINO DRV
SHERRY
m •
• *
• *
»S 2?WMfcff
ASK ALSO FOR ST. AONES BRANDY
AUSTRALIAN
REPUBLICAN
PARTY
Invites inquiries regarding Membership,
and calls for Nominations for the
Federal Elections.
R. MULLINS, 8.A., LL.B., President,
Box 1976 R, Melbourne.
pany —as stock and station agent and
woolbroker. It also agreed with a request
by the Prudential Assurance Co. Ltd to
join with that co. in facilitating its
investment of a substantial sum in rural
development and production in all States
of Australia.
The liquid position was little changed
last term but stocks in hand climbed
£620,180 to £2,988,929—in part the
result of increased merchandising, in
part a build up of excess stocks during
the credit squeeze. Elder’s banking
department was hard pressed but
“extreme pressures of demand” were met
“to the full extent of our resources.”
Advances, etc.,however, were reduced
(down £418,053 at £15,963,877) sub-
sequent to a decline in industrial trade
debtors (again the credit squeeze).
Creditors at £16,720,202 (up £662,778)
consist in the main of“clients’ credits,”
and, with deposits £3,025,835 (term,
deferred, fixed and other, but not short
term ; up £529,841) constitute the other
side of the banking department's
activities Theoretical working capital
bulks large at £7,475,677 (up £47,206).
As to the future: prospects for the
current year are difficult to assess but
“all indications appear to favor a strong
world demand with a tendency towards
increased usage.” The 1961-62 wool
clip is estimated at 4,849,000 bales (up
134,000 bales)and it would seem from
the point of view of world stocks of wool
“that any surplus has been absorbed,
with stocks in the hands of manufac-
turers, merchants and retailers at a lower
level than normal.” Wool sales were
resumed in August (the main wool-
selling season) with prices some 24- to
5 p.c. higher than in July and some 10
to 12 p.c. higher for fine wools (and 15
“I can't even get the commercials."
to 20 p.c. higher for stronger wools) than
in August of last year.
There is no doubt as to Elder's ability
to “ring” the national shed this season,
and it is almost certain that the co. will
keep its “comb” full of wool as well.
But whether the champion's tally will earn
him a proportionate profit is another
question and one open to individual
judgment. If trading conditions improve,
and it seems likely that they will then
Elder's can be expected to increase its
profits, especially since it is increasingly
channelling resources into those depart-
ments (merchandising and insurance in
particular) containing solid growth
potential. Investors are, not unnaturally,
inclined to reticence and the 20s. ords.,
paid to 125., are presently trading around
235. 9d. They touched as high as 345. 3d.
in 1960. Immediate purchase ensures a
yield of 5.1 p.c. from the 10 p.c. div.
with prospects of capital appreciation.
On conservative book values (freeholds
are probably worth at least double the
amount at which they appear in the
accounts) the co. showed 395. 3d. in net
asset backing at balance date for every
£1 of share capital.
COMPANY NOTES
Industrial Acceptance
Tndustrial Acceptance Corporation
Limited, the operating subsidiary of
I.A.C. (Holdings) Limited, reports that
the recent issue of £1 million first mort-
gage debenture stock and registered
unsecured notes was “substantially over-
subscribed. ” Subscriptions “are still being
accepted for long-term investments, but
for the time being no further over-
subscriptions for short-term will be
accepted.” This news is encouraging
I.A.C. (Holdings) Ltd operates
throughout the Commonwealth. The
group has its own insurance subsidiaries
and finances hire-purchase sales of farm
equipment, machinery, furniture and
domestic appliances in addition to motor
vehicles. It has building society interests
in Victoria. The A.N.Z. Bank holds a
14 p.c. share interest in the group.
Diversification of business has been a
help during the period of credit restric-
tions. Recently the directors reported
that “subject to audit, the consolidated
net profits of the group for the half-year
ended June 30, 1961, showed a slight
increase over the profits earned for the
same period in 1960.” However, out-
standings decreased by £7,250,000 be-
tween the end of December and June,


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on Bth March, 1950)
(ASSETS EXCEED £8,000,000)
if
2
P.A. 5.6 or 10 Years
9
Pi
P.A
8
1
2%
2.3
Years
CC94M
SHORTTERM RATES
8%
P.A.
12 MONTHS'
NOTICE
7%
P.A.
& MONTHS'
NOTICE
62%
P.A.
3 MONTHS’
NOTICE
6%
P.A.
1 MONTH’S
NOTICE
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
Funds may be withdrawn in a personal emergency
Increased interest rates apply on renewal of investments
Interest paid quarterly FREE of Exchange through the
Bank of N.S.W.
Prospectus and Application Forms obtainable from:
Any Branch of the BANK OF N.S.W.
OR
The Company's Offices: Ground Floor, Cambridge House, 249 George St.,
Sydney 'Phone: BU 5542; Ground Floor, Cambridge House, 411-413 Lons-
dale Street, Melbourne —'Phone: 67-6792; Suite 53a, sth Floor, T. & G.
Building, 137 Queen Street, Brisbane 'Phones: 24-509, 26-981; Suite 110,
Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street, Adelaide 'Phone: 87-025;
Morton House, 5 Union Street, Newcastle West 'Phone: B 4601; Berner
Credit Company Pty. Ltd., 147 Bayliss Street, Wagga.
OR
Any Member of a Recognised Stock Exchange
Underwriting Brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CQRRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members cf the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
Brokers for the issue in A.C.T.: T. J. Thompson & Sons, C.B.C. Chambers,
Petrie Street, Canberra (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
Brokers for the issue in Newcastle: F. S. Scorer & Co., T. & G. Building,
Cnr. Hunter & Watt Sts., Newcastle (Members of the Newcastle Stock Exchange)
Brokers for the issue in South Australia: S. C. Ward & Co., 25 Grenfell
Street, Adelaide (Members of the Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.)
Brokers for the issue in Western Australia: Donald J. Carmichael & Co.,
135 St. George's Terrace, Perth (Members of the Stock Exchange of Perth)
Brokers for the issue in Tasmania: P. S. Shadforth & Son, Commercial Bank
of Australasia Building, Cnr. Elixabeth and Collins Streets, Hobart.
Trustee for Stockholders: Bankers & Traders' Insurance Company Limited
Investigating Accountants for the Underwriting Brokers: Smith Johnson & Co.
Registrar: Bank of N.S.W. Nominees Pty. Ltd.
Registers: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Canberra.
Applications for the debenture stock accepted only on one of the
forms of application attached to a printed copy of the prospectus.
mainly due to a lower volume of car
sales. A spokesman for the group told
The Bulletin that “sales resistance” is
still being encountered, but that the con-
nection with the Volkswagen group has
proved valuable. Volkswagen cars seem
to be somewhat less affected by the credit
restrictions than some other makes.
At the last sale in Sydney the ss. ords
changed hands at 12s. lOd. a unit. This
makes the immediate yield 6.4 p.c. on
the basis of the 16| p.c. dividend distri-
bution.
Email Ltd
Twenty contracts, worth, in aggregate,
upwards of £2 million, have recently
been obtained by the air-conditioning
and industrial-refrigeration division of the
Sydney-registered Email Ltd.
The largest single contract, valued at
around £500,000, is for an air-condition-
ing installation in the new Melbourne
building of the Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Co. Other contracts include
air-conditioning systems for the Norwich
Union Fire Insurance Society in Sydney
(worth £150,000) and a television studio
in Newcastle (£50,000), and the installa-
tion of two Marley cooling towers for the
State Electricity Commission in Western
Australia.
OIL AND MINING
Winnathoola No. 1
Associated Australian Oilfields
T* N.L. report that drilling at Winna-
thoola No. I well stopped at basement
at 5432 ft. The w'ell is being plugged. A
small quantity of gas was recovered from
a drili stem test between 5032 ft. and
5342 ft. Directors say that “the presence
of gas at this depth, combined with the
yield reported earlier of 600,000 cubic
feet at approximately 4500 ft, makes this
well valuable for correlation with other
oil and gas producing wells in the area. ‘
Ampol
Ampol Petroleum Ltd has issued to
California Texas Oil Corporation of
New York. 3,000,000 deferred ordinary
shares at 13s. 4d. a unit, including a
premium of Bs. 4d. a share. The new
shares carry a right to 5 p.c. dividend
until September 1966, when they will be
converted to ordinary stock and rank
pari passu with ordinary stock.
Directors say that “the right to partici-
pate in new issues of ordinary capital
does not attach to these shares until Octo-
ber 1, 1966, and these shares will not be
listed on the Stock Exchange until after
that date.”
This issue of 3,000,000 deferred stock
units js equivalent to 3T p.c. AmpoTs
total capital and convertible notes. Am-
pul’s stockholding remains predominantly
Australian, being over 90 p.c. of the total
capital. However, this marks the first
American participation in the company.
The premium, £1,250,000, will be, added
to share premium reserve account. “The
proceeds of the issue will be used to
acquire the freehold of 73 service stations
and to repay a long term debt.”
When the final call on Ampol’s present
issue of ordinary stock is paid in April,
1962, reserves will be approximately
£11,700,000. Of this, £5,512,000 will be
in share premiums, £2,834,000 in assets
revaluation reserve, and £3,168,000 in
general and other reserves.


I
Mi
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS, £891.419.
TANGIBLE ASSETS, £3,184,264.
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
[NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
WITH RIGHT OF RECALL
ON 30 DAYS’ NOTICE
3 months .... 5Y2/0 p.a.
6 months ; . ; . 6% p.a.
9 months . ; ; . 6V2% p.a.
12 months ~. . 1% p.a.
18 months .i; . V/11. p.a.
• FIXED DEPOSITS
2 years . . i . . 8% p.a.
3 years . w ; ; . 8!/2% p.a.
AND OVER
APPLICATIONS must be made
on the form enclosed with the
prospectus, which is obtainable
from
Members of the Stock Exchange
ANY BRANCH OF A.N.Z. BANK.
The Registered Office of the Com-
pany, William & Crown Sts.,
Sydney. Telephone FA 0322.
Financing world-
famous products
distributed by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies.
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
in Queensland
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
in Queensland
LISTER
Engines
GROUP SALES
IN 1960
' £14,757,281
MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 1/4/61, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
• ••••••••••••••••••••••••a*** H DB2.'io
8.14/10
The
NORTHERN LIFE
Assurance Company of Australia Limited
{lncorporated in Canberra, Australia )
All Classes of Ordinary Life Assurance,
Superannuation and Annuity Policies Issued
HEAD OFFICE: 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone BL 5601 K. J. Hedley, General Manager
Speculators Diary
Monday, October 9.
IF you can’t make money buy-
ing shares, you sometimes
can selling them—selling them
short, that is. Wary as I am
of this practice, it has certainly
paid off for me the last few
weeks, first with G. E. Crane
and then with John Lysaght.
The John Lysaghts I had sold
short on September 7 at 70s.
9d. on the theory that this
leading company was having
a really horrible year, judging
by the behavior of its principal
customers. It was not until two
weeks later that this not very
remarkable piece of intuition
was confirmed. But, sure
enough, I awoke one morning
to find that business was so
bad for John Lysaght that it
was having to reduce its divi-
dend below the forecast 10 per
cent. rate. It’s not often,
fortunately, that a company of
John Lysaght’s standing can-
not pay a dividend at the fore-
cast rate in its very first year
on the Stock Exchange, and
this just goes to show how
suddenly business conditions
changed in the early part of
this year.
So the morning Lysaght’s
announcement came out I
hopefully put on an order to
buy back at 60s. I thought this
was being a bit optimistic but,
alas, it wasn’t. I bought back
at 60s. and the price continued
on down to 58s. 6d. But I was
more than satisfied with 60s.
as that gave me a profit of £44.
And now the price is back to
645. again.
Lor the rest of the fortnight
my attention has been focused
on the stream of profit an-
nouncements coming from
companies in which I am inter-
ested. Meriea, Hornibrook and
Marrickville all confirmed their
higher dividend rates, but in
each case the profit increase
was not enough to excite the
market very much. Disap-
pointing.
McDonald Industries was
also able to record only a
modest profit increase, al-
though the tax and deprecia-
tion provisions were almost
doubled. So it looks as though
McDonald might be keeping
quite a bit up its sleeve.
The best result among
my companies came from
Adelaide’s Southern TV. This
television station’s profit of
£lOO,OOO worked out at a hand-
some 40 per cent, on the small
capital of £250,000, making the
share price still look fairly
cheap at 235. 6d.
What the annual reports are
showing is that I have a num-
ber of only mediocre stocks in
my portfolio. Nothing looked
more mediocre than Motel
Corporation so I finally sent
my 400 on their way at 2s. 6d.
for a loss of £l3.
On the buying side, I forgot
to mention last diary—in the
excitement of the P.M.U. take-
over—that I applied for 400
Olympic Bowling shares on
the strength of the good per-
formance put up by Newcastle
Ten Pin. The opportunity to
apply for these Olympic Bowl-
ing shares came to me by
grace of my 200 Marrickvilles.
The major purchase of the
fortnight was 200 Myer. I
bought 200 of these, perhaps
recklessly, at 28s. following the
spectacularly good profit result,
backed up by a very interesting
looking tax provision. It looks
good enough to me, regardless
of what the papers might say.
SOLD
400 Motel Corporation
at 2/6 .. .. £4B
BOUGHT
100 John Lysaght new
at 60/- .. £305
400 Olympic Bowling
at 2/6 .. .. £5O
200 Myer at 28/- .. £285
This leaves me with this
portfolio:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Total Per rent
Shares Company Cost Share Price
500 Meriea 105 0/4 7/-
300 Hornibrook 354 23/- 26/-
200 Marrickville 217 21/3 25/-
000 Newcastle Ten
Pin Bowling 125 5/- 6/8
300 McDonald 207 13/6 14/3
200 Southern TV 205 20/- 23/6
400 Rio Tin to 307 15/ 15/-
300 Pyrox new 87 5/9 6/6
200 Dodge 136 13/4 14/-
50 A.C.I. 273 107/6 112/-
100 Mt Isa 341 69/9 72/-
400 Derrin 206 10/- 10/6
400 O’Donnell
Griffin 239 11/8 12/-
200 F. G. O'Brien 100 9/9 10/9
300 Huddart
Parker 345 22/6 25/-
50 Rothmans 199 78/9 85/9
100 Shipping
News 351 69/- 72/-
100 Howard
Smith 255 50/- 50/-
400 Olympic
Bowling 50 2/6
200 Myer 285 28/- 28/-
And I’m not short in any-
thing, even cash (£94)! But it
looks as though I might have
goofed with those Howard
Smith’s I bought in a weak
moment on a takeover rumor.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— Ix Diyoiuk.
TO THOMAS HENRY WARWICK late of Thorn-
leigh.—TAKE NOTICE that JEAN MARION
WARWICK has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
2902 of 1061 on the ground of desertion It you
wish to defend you should file an answer at the
Divorce Registry Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by the 10th November 1961 and obtain a
copy of the Petition and Notice of Petition without
charge from E. (1 SAYEGH, Solicitor, 133 Pitt
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
TO EDWARD HENDRY formerly of Verna Street
Gosnells Western Australia. TAKE NOTICE that
your wife JESSIE HENDRY has commenced pro-
ceedings against you in the Supreme Court of Wes-
tern Australia for divorce on the ground of deser-
tion It you desire to defend tiie proceedings you
must file an answer in the Central Office of the
Supreme Court at Perth within TWENTY EIGH'I
DAYS from the date of this publication In default
of your so doing the cause may proceed and the
Court, will pronounce judgment and make orders
against you in your absence DATED this 6th day
of October 1961. —C.T. STAPLES, Acting Registrar.
KEAI.E, McCAI.E & BRTNSDEN, of Ist Floor, 29
Barrack Street, Perth, Solicitors for the Petitioner,
Divorce Notices
0. 1960 (D) No, 41
A DIVORCE PETITION HAS BEEN FILED
AGAINST THE UNDERMENTIONED
OWEN, lEUAN, late of 437 Wellington Street
Launceston Tasmania who may apply to the District
Registrar District Registry of the High Court
Bridgend Glamorgan United Kingdom for a copy of
the petition If within 57 days he has not com-
municated with the District Registrar the Court
mav hear the case in his absence. —REGINALD
FREEDMAN. District Registrar.
TO JOSEPH WHITE McDOUGALL formerly of 38
Garton Street Princes Hill Victoria. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife SARAH McDOUGALL has
commenced proceedings against you in the Supreme
Court of Western Australia for divorce on the
ground of separation If you desire to defend the
proceedings you must tile an answer in the Central
other of the Supreme Court at Perth within
TWENTY EIGHT days from the date of this pub
lication In default of your so doing the cause
may proceed and the Court will pronounce judg-
ment and make orders against you in your absence.
DATED this 25th day of September, 1961. —G. T.
STAPLES. Acting Registrar.
C. A. M. ROBERTSON, ot Ist Floor, London Court,
.St. George’s Terrace, Perth, Solicitor for the
Petitioner.
IT'S
ONLY
I'-
More for
' mum,
more
for dad,
faore for.
the kids,
in your
greatest
Everybody’s
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 662
Across
I—Striking show'iness from icy catapulters. (14)
6 Disorderly newt and parent issued a report. (4, 3)
9—Sickly sentimental. (7)
11 — Bob shaken by this inflation-affected 8-down. (8, 7)
12— 111-favored initiation of unusually gifted Lismore
youths. (4)
13—How a number might be of the
mouth holding noise. (7)
17 — Less fitting parent confused by
one. (7)
18 — Mail from a foreign capital. (4)
21 —Turnip assaulter mashed up a
fellow who is very keen on
spirits, but would be the abso-
lute know-all about zoology and
botany. (15)
23 — Some ticking oft shekel of
cloth. (7)
24 Moccasin who becomes un-
balanced. (7)
25 — Such professional apprentices call
red tickers wrong. (8, 6)
Down
1 — Somewhat in the style of the
mother of a snorter like this
aspiration. (6)
2 Absolutely outstanding spinner
and one of the deceptive devices
a spinner may use. (9)
3 Saul mob growls for coverings
which should be cheaper in Aus-
tralia than elsewhere. (9, 4)
4 The skinny monarch using his
head. (8)
5 Cholera affected composition tor
voices. (7)
7 Fasten one in none. (4)
8 — All the unsuccessful suitors of
Ulysses’s grass-widow may have
considered her such cheap read-
ing. (5, 8)
10 —Seek the hand and heart of
3-down. (3)
14— A Benedictine lion-tamer in an
eerie submarine cave. (9)
15 — A priest makes money. (7)
16 — Big paper can be produced by
this musician (?). (8)
19 — It may help to bite a child (6)
20 — Seaborne woman of ill-repute
makes a beginning. (6)
22—Republican rooking a bit of a
bounder. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 661


* > w
I
a
Financiers in London, Tokyo, New York. Experts in
every field of business and commerce . . . unbiased corres-
pondents in Canberra. Every Monday facts from the
world’s business capitals are relayed precisely, concisely in
“The Australian Financial Times”.
MONDAY NEXT!
and every Monday
16
m ( '
FINANCIAL TIMES
