

The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
March 22. 1961
and The Observer
Price 1/ *
Darwin
Who Runs the Territory?
Nuclear Tests
President Kennedy’s Views
Hooks
Norman Lindsay on R.L.S.
Design
Scandinavians v. Australia
rhe Mind of R ft


svSJWH
Lit 1' ® '* -i
II
_2|§
r >.«
m
5*
%
■ . J**
o*.
mi
**
Jsr *
r,-*r
v *
H
&
<rx
ggßtt
\r
M
m
»
*mm
■
\ W*
5 £ ■
* ;
\*
* «.. >■
«%
V<Q?
Nr*
rr
**
H
4
Ki
m
"•A-'
****■
*
y*'
Si
%, v l*
{éz’w
TRAINED WOOL STAFF
IS AT YOUR SERVICE
From the sheep s back to the Show Floor, wool-
growers can depend on Elders complete and
efficient organisation which has for over 120
years been developed to cover all phases of the
marketing of Wool.
You can be sure that your wool will be displayed
to advantage in all major selling centres of Aus
tralia under the best conditions. With a network
of 200 Branches and nine large and well lighted
Wool Stores throughout Australia, Elders are well
equipped to handle all aspects of business to;
the “Man on the Land.
One bag or l t ooo
bales receive the
same attention
from Elders
trained wool staff.
ELDER,SMITH & CO
■»
Elders complete Service to the Man on the Land covers Wool Broking, Livestock, Merchandise,
Travel, Chartering, Insurance, Properly, Rural Finance, Skin and Hides.
ADELAIDE. PERTH. ALBANY. MELBOURNE. GEELONG. SYDNEY,
NEWCASTLE. GOUI.BURN, BRISBANE, LONDON


Society
Forward, Stanislavski
The next Federal election campaign is
going to be a bottler. All the
politicians have been inspired by the
Nixon-Kennedy TV debates, and the
Liberals have hired Hayes Gordon, the
Australian expert on Method acting (and
producer of “The Double Dealer”), to
teach them television techniques. So, with
luck, we'll have Mr Menzies appearing
in a T-shirt, drinking coke and stammer-
ing like Marlon Brando, with Handsome
Harold sitting in a corner in jeans, pick-
ing his nose, pouting, and occasionally
muttering “Crazy, man.” Mr Calwell
would be well advised to import someone
direct from the Strasberg studio —though
perhaps he feels his cast has nothing to
learn from the Method.
Not in Their Street
A ttracted by the grace of its architec-
ture, its vast cellar, and evidences of
a lost vineyard behind it, Mrs Robert
Dulieu, vice-president of the women's
council of the Museum ot Modern Art,
bought a run-down house in dreary
William Street, South Yarra. It was too
big, so she called it a gallery, opened it
with an exhibition of contemporary art,
some for sale, and announced shows by
young artists, and retrospective exhibi-
tions. Attracted by the publicity, Prahran
Council wrote telling her to shut it up
because she couldn't open a shop in
William Street.
Blackball no Blackboy
A fter inquiries into management-labor
relationships in New Guinea, and
into the conditions of the natives (who
have become indigenes because of demo-
cracy or something), the Australian
Council of Employers’ Federations
reports: “Employers’ organisations
“Black tie with tails!”
should encourage me active membership
of indigence.” On a losses-sharing basis,
no doubt.
Erris Earnings
Since Ern Malley never existed, who
gets the royalties on the re-issue of
his poems? Publisher Lloyd O'Neil! of
Melbourne (either a very unusual pub-
lisher or very young) worries over this
problem. James McAuley and Harold
Stewart were at pains to avoid gaining
by the trick they played on “Angry
Penguins” magazine ; they had bogus
Ern’s bogus sister Ethel assign the copy-
right to the “Angry Penguins” publishers,
Reed and Harris. That firm has broken
up ; John Reed runs Melbourne's
Museum of Modern Art, Max Harris an
Adelaide bookshop.
Anyway, Harris’s goodwill, no every-
day consideration, has been gained; he
is contributing a preface to the new
edition, summarising the Adelaide court-
case which convicted the 1944 publishers
of obscenity. This will introduce to a
new generation Sergeant Vogelsang, who
was awarded a police medal for his zeal
in prosecution.
Eligibles for Free
A man who answered a Hellenic-
Australian Line advertisement of
free passages received a charming reply.
To be eligible all that is needed is to
be “eligible.” You fill in a questionnaire
(married or single ; why you wish to
travel), and “if your eligibility is estab-
lished, the Directors will communicate
with you within three days.”
But there is hope for all in a share
issue (ten per cent.): “From your point
of view, the most interesting feature of
this issue may be that each person who
purchases 300 one pound shares becomes
entitled Automatically to a Free Return
Passage to Greece or Cyprus on the
Company’s liner Australis.”
So why bother about Eligible when
you can cash bonds, grab for the ten
per cent., dig out your passport and be-
come Automatic?
INDEX
9 The Mind of R. G.
Menzies 7
• Revolt in the Territory 12
@ Regulars and C.M.F. 13
Aboriginalities 28
Business, Robbery, etc. 36
Consumer-Observer 26
Letters 44
Look Back At Anger 30
Man on the Land 47
Personal 18
Plain English 6
9 How to Lose Friends and
Interview People 16
• The Way I Write (J. E.
Macdonnell) 17
9 Short Story 50
Political Points 22
Red Page 31
Service 59
Shows 39
Society 3
Sport 42
This Australia 19
Wild Cat Columns 54


4 ngel Flies Off
As the painting and sculpture business
booms in this country, that other
tspect of the arts, the thieving of art
reasures, may soon take root here. There
s already the Strange Case of John
Perceval’s Angel. It is an odd angel with
i face like a malicious baby wanting to
iuck. (Perceval claims the expression is
[“jovial”.) It is dark pinkish brown,
weighs 171 b. and can be recognised by
'its damaged left wing. Its value is £l5O.
The Sydney advertising agency Arthur
Holland and Associates bought it from
Perceval to decorate their office and to
add the proper sanctity to advertising
campaigns. But within a matter of hours
of its arrival in Sydney from Melbourne,
someone walked into the office, tucked
it under his arm, and walked out with it.
One consolation is that our burglars must
be developing a taste for the contem-
porary.
Fare is Foul . . .
\VfiTH the last tram to run in Sydney
W one of the city’s traditional sounds,
the tramguard’s call for fares, choked.
Bus conductors don't seem to have the
same imagination. There was Ting-
ding,’* an irritable old man who, when
ignored, would stand at the door splutter-
ing, “Fing-ding-fing-ding,” until the
offender gave in and paid. “Fodwells”
was more even-tempered, but rather
mournful ; “Fa-base’’ was brisk and no-
nonsense ; one who might have been
ogling the girls in the compartment pro-
duced something like “There she is.” But
for originality it was hard to beat “Floy-
doy-ploy,” a corruption as interesting as
the Wynyard paper-seller’s “Wipe a
light.”
Two-way Code
A fter Queensland’s six - months of
public head-shaking over juvenile
delinquency, the heads of 17 secondary
schools have drawn up a “Conduct
Code”; teenagers, they hold, should not
assemble in groups on the street, fre-
quent milk bars and coffee lounges in
groups, hog the family car, hug in it,
drink or smoke. “We believe that parents
will welcome a lead on these matters,”
the teachers say. But will the teenagers?
That is what some parents want to know,
while a surprisingly large number of
other parents are bewailing the puritanism
of today’s children who would want to
apply much of the new code to their
elders.
“My Word , you ARE a smooth
operator !”
White plus 10 equals Elizabeth
Overseas visitors to Australia must
think we’re a bit barmy. The "Red
Page” of The Bulletin is now white.
“Column 8,” the daily “Granny” column
in “The Sydney Morning Herald," has
been in that paper’s column 10 for years.
And Sydney's busy little Phillip Street
Theatre still operates under that name
even though its theatre is now in
Elizabeth Street.
That was Society
The New South Waits Legislature
has passed the Tote Hill, and in a few
months the machine should be operating
on some of the courses. The great blot
on the bill as originally drafted remains
in the Act, and that is the running of the
totalisator in double harness with Mac-
Short-odds. No one has attempted to
show that any advantage is likely Ur be
derived by the State, the public, or racing,
from having both the machine and the
bookie in operation. It is impossible to
make out a case for this double.
— “Bulletin”, December 21, 1916.
A mania for cutting into the parklands
has bitten Sydney. At present the Coun-
cil is engaged in biting off a portion of
the southern end of Hyde Park. I his
robbery has the justification that it falls
into line with the scheme for a fine ave-
nue running from the I own Hall along
a broadened Park Street and a recon-
structed William Street. But, glorying in
the noble job of park-stealing, the lar-
cenous Bumbles are considering a feather-
headed scheme of extending Market Street
through the northern section of the park
to College Street. This scheme would
shorten a journey by St James’ Road by
fully twenty yards, and cut a fairly de-
cent park into two indecent fragments.
— “Bulletin”, September 16, 1916.
Melbourne has a school, run by the
Education Department, where for two
davs a week certain girl-scholars, be-
tween 12 and 14, are able to add to their
grammar and geography some knowledge
of home-making. It sounds like a good
scheme; but the National Council of
Women has put its foot down firmly and
refuses to approve. Indeed, “it is a re-
proach that we should allow children of
11 to be instructed in the domestic arts”.
Hut if the Australian miss is to be shown
how to make ends meet when she gets
married, she must be caught and taught
before the factory age. Otherwise, in most
cases, she will simply go from the class-
room to the workshop and stay there
until Hill takes her home. And if she
can't make brown gravy, deal out merci-
less justice to the grocer, pay the rent and
leave 1/9 o\er for Hill's smokes and beer,
there is liable to be more beer in the
years that follow. But, then, what does
the comfortable N.CAV. really know
about beer and its relation to brown
gravy and good housekeeping on nine
bob a day. — “Bulletin”, July 20, 1916.
I predict a great scrapping of outworn
ideals and a better national tone when
our 200,000 and odd legionaries come
home. There’s no education like foreign
travel, and the bonfire of patriotism is
going to flare up so brightly that all the
old dingoes will break for the bush.
Amongst other things we are going to get
from the inspiration of France are good
roads. This is where incompetent local
officialdom will “stop one”, and live stun-
ned ever after. But, best of all, Australia,
and not some place on the other side of
the world, will be “Home”.
— “Bulletin”, August 3, 1916.
The last omnibus has just disappeared
from the Melbourne suburbs. Between 50
and 60 years ago the 'bus was already
providing the pleasant way for business
men to bowl into town. Later on every
’bus on the road was driven off by the
cabs, until the new company started in
1869. It served all the suburbs, and pre-
sently made a bargain with the muni-
cipality to substitute trams.
— “Bulletin”, December 21, 1911.
SEATING ARRANGEMENTS
“Sydney City Council Finance Committee
recommended increased charges in cleaning
services from 50 to 100 per cent., including
a rise from Id to 2d for the use of public
conveniences, the first rise since 1930.”
The rising cost of seats, immense
In general experience,
Was not to our convenience.
Dentists' and barbers' chairs have soared
To charges everywhere deplored,
And still we’re drilled, and still we’re
bored.
In theatres we might not weep
The dear, dear seats that once were cheap
If actors did not slaughter sleep.
And Parliamentary sittings that
Achieved the heights all seats are at
Might not have, if they’d never sat.
Whereas the seats whereon the many
Take refuge from their cares, if any,
Since 1930 cost a penny :
Escape from all the world contrives,
Doctors and actors, laws and wives,
A penny’s peace in pounds of lives —
What if they cost a penny more ?
They’re not the kind of seats, I’m sure,
One would not give you tuppence for.
SWILLIAM


RECOGNITION?


PLAIN ENGLISH
Whose Commonwealth?
Oefore deciding what the effects are
** on the Commonwealth of South
Africa’s defection from it, it is neces-
sary to wonder what the Common-
wealth is, since it replaced the British
Empire (which was, at the time, an
effective and reasonably peaceful way
of running a large part of the world).
There is one thing that the Com-
monwealth is not: it is not a body
of brothers uniquely devoted to Par-
liamentary government and the main-
tenance of liberty. In the days when
it was a club for English-speaking
people of European descent through-
out the world it did have a strong
Parliamentary- and freedom-loving
flavor ; the fact that there was a dis-
enfranchised majority embedded in the
old Empire did not alter the Empire’s
ideology of liberty and democracy for
grown-ups. That ideology no longer
exists. Mr Nehru or Mr Menzies
may still speak in democratic terms,
but President Ayub or Dr Nkrumah
can't. And as the newly created
nations settle their questions of public
order with whatever lies at hand
the Commonwealth could even later
contain a majority of governments
that arc authoritarian.
On these terms, our continued mem-
bership of the Commonwealth may
coarsen our concern for the details
of freedom, although there is the con-
vention that it doesn't matter so much
if non-Europeans have to be brutes
to themselves as long as we don't do
it. In this respect, the exclusion of
South Africa is not significant: it was
the racialist policies of South Africa
that were condemned, not its political
methods. Authoritarianism is still
acceptable in the Commonwealth, as
it is in the cold war. Pakistan, Spain,
Ghana, Portugal—we are all allies ;
we would have Castro if we could get
him and we have Tito whenever he
is available. And this is as it must
be. The preservation of the non-
Communist world from a total Com-
munist order necessarily coarsens our
concern for freedom in our allies.
All that we can hope is that some of
us still maintain free communities ;
and there is no real reason to believe
that we won't.
In the central issue of the day—
the fighting of the Cold War —the
significance of the Commonwealth
is hard to work out. If Ghana did a
complete Guinea would we expel
Ghana? Or would we feel that we
must preserve the Commonwealth?
(For reasons undefined). Or that
we could talk Nkrumah out of it?
(We rejected that with South Africa.)
There is no answer. We don't know
what we would do, but short of
catastrophe (and how can you talk
foreign affairs without a sense of
catastrophe?) there seem to be two
(conflicting) roles for the Common-
wealth in the cold war: It could
provide a kind of third force disrup-
tiveness, if the illusions of its Afro-
Asian members or the ambitions of the
British took the wrong turn. Or it
can be a method of associating non-
financial members of the anti-Com-
munist front (India, Ghana, etc.) with
those who are paying their dues
(Pakistan, Malaya—and, as it were,
us). It can play one psychologically
useful role: to a strangely assorted
group of countries that all depend
ultimately on the American posses-
sion of a huge number of nuclear
weapons it can provide a relief to
think that they belong to an unde-
finable body that ostensibly has noth-
ing to do with America or the Cold
War. And this kind of psychological
holiday is not without importance —
as long as it is not taken too seriously.
The Commonwealth is a comfort to
weak nations. It even sustains the
British by preserving for them some
of their amour propre.
The Commonwealth has the obvious
advantage that it gets Prime Ministers
together. They can have dozens of
useful, informal discussions, without
any of the frustrations or perils of
summit diplomacy. It is also a
handy diplomatic device. If a Com-
monwealth country and a non-Com-
monwealth country want good offices,
they can get them through a Common-
wealth third party ; there is something
of everything in the Commonwealth.
But, all practical questions aside,
there is still a great deal of sentiment
in the Commonwealth. In our case
this is obvious (although we do not
need even a Commonwealth for Eliza-
beth II to be Queen of Australia).
But for President Ayub or Mr Nehru
this is also true. The ties of British
culture have not all snapped and
they bind Mr Menzies and Mr Nehru
perhaps more firmly than they bound
Mr Verwoerd and Mr Menzies. In
some ways Mr Verwoerd was some-
thing of an anti-British offsider. But
this cultural-ideological link can hardly
survive for ever. And when it goes—
what then?
All that is offering for the moment
is a moral enthusiasm for multi-racial
societies. But even that may prove
to be a mere matter of fashion. And
it has its dangers. If racially exclu-
sive policies were to be made a final
test in minute detail we would prob-
ably all be out of the Commonwealth.
Fortunately, they are not likely to be.
We need not be afraid that we will be
kicked out next year because we have
made a mess of the aborigines. Other
countries—including even India —have
their aboriginal problems, too, and
are not doing all that well in handling
them. Our migration policies might
cause more of a stir, but they need not
if we learn how to be less apologetic
about our handling of them —the
Prime Minister of Malaya has already
told us what to say. There is no
suggestion that a condition of member-
ship of the Commonwealth is that
migration between Commonwealth
countries should be absolutely free.
South Africa was pushed out partly
because it would not accept repre-
sentatives from non-European Com-
monwealth countries ; and partly be-
cause its apartheid policies had reached
a stage of enormity and scandal. The
only danger to the Commonwealth
in the immediate future is that some
demagogue—and Dr Nkrumah comes
to mind —might start playing it simply
for cheers. In that case we might
have to expel him.
Praising the
P.IVI.
'P lsewhere in this issue Mr M. H.
Ellis gives an historian’s personal
appraisal of the Prime Minister. It
is a brave man these days —especially
in Sydney —who will come out in
unqualified favor of Mr Menzies, but
that is what Malcolm Ellis has done.
The point that is often lost about
the Prime Minister is that he is a
Conservative: he governs lightly, and
only when it seems necessary. Many
of his critics feel that this is the
wrong way to govern ; but those who
believe it is the right way are now
forced into the ridiculous position of
pointing out that if you think a man
is doing a good job you have a right
to say so. The Prime Minister has
lent his great gifts to not govern-
ing the country as much as govern-
ing it and this is an attitude that now
takes considerable nerve and prin-
ciple to maintain. One wonders if
some of his possible successors could
display the same skills. Unfortunately
the demands of the second great
business of government —conducting a
country’s foreign affairs and seeing
to its security—do not at times always
lend themselves to the light touch. It
is to be hoped that the Prime Minister
will devote the greater part of his
remaining career to those questions
such as the development of the North,
the future of New Guinea, the revival
of an adequate defence system and the
encouragement of hard-headed diplo-
macy that, if not handled with courage
and imagination, may wreck our
future.
BY OBSERVER


The Mind of R. G. Menzies
A Per so nal Appraisal
By M. H. ELLIS
R. G. MENZIES
Saturnine
Rceert Gordon Menzies is singular
in one attitude now outmoded with
too many of his confreres. He
sincerely believes that political life
s supreme as a profession. There has
seen much shaking of bewigged heads
sver the waste of good material that has
occurred through his desertion of the law
'or Parliament, which is regarded by so
nany as a somewhat shabby assembly
)f delegates, self-seeking, using platforms
nerely as shaky erections for dema-
gogues to roost on, and always under the
vhip of juntas outside that are even
habbier and less responsible than itself,
de had a brilliant legal mind which
:arried him into the High Court at 23 —
liter he had won every legal scholarship
it Melbourne University, having come up
rom the educational ’ beginnings of a
mall country school at Jeparit <Vic.) ;
n a matter of seven years he was recog-
lised as a certain Chief Justice of the
uture ; he had been an advocate in
a uses celeb res, before he was 30 ; his
udicial wig was already reserved for him
□ng before he took silk.
But already, as a young counsel with
n air about him that the 18th century
have called “saturnine,” an earlier
ge still “haughty,” and a later one
arrogant,” he was a man apart, and
addenly this lawyer of whom nothing
lore trivial could be said than that he
'as a bit of a dilettante in literature and
rt went himself sharply off the road to
:gal eminence to land in the Victorian
egislative Council as an Honorary
linister in a Ministry of no repute and
r ith no future before it.
There is a clue to his mind in Lon-
on. The Australian who comes upon a
jrtain picture of the House of Commons
uring the age of the RHs is startled
> see, squarely planted in the centre
t the Treasury Bench, and leaning for-
ard in a characteristic attitude, what
spears to be the familiar figure of R. G.
lenzies.
It isn't, of course ; it is Charles James
ox. But it could well be Menzies with-
it adding incongruity to the scene, for
historian cannot fail to note that
isically Menzies is a child of the 18th
:ntury, which would have taken him
i its bosom without doubt, though per-
ips not to its heart.
He certainly would have been very
ippy in the Age of Reason and the
ore one examines him, no matter from
bat angle, the more striking his resem-
ance to the castigator of Wilkes and
e bane of Pitt’s existence becomes,
e brought to political life the same sort
thinking apparatus, the same power of
eating apprehensive suspense in the
ind of an opponent; the same delight
in literature and the same ability to say,
with Fox, il he ever thinks about some-
thing that is so much part of his everyday
life, that poetry is “the best thing of
all.” Even in the state of all-absorption
with politics and administration and a
social round which he enjoys, he reads
Australian verse as it comes along. He
appears to use it as other people use
aspirin, to calm his mind.
He has other gifts, tastes and abilities
that recall Fox.
The Gift of Cynicism
find him just as “hard, bold
and ready” in debate as they found
Charles James. He has the same gift of
cynicism. And it would be equally
plausible that, in a day when he would
have roamed politically well ahead even
of the radical Whig vanguard he would
have got himself, like Fox, kicked out
of the Privy Council for proposing the
toast of “His Majesty the People,” for
very surprisingly to some, in the light of
the insistence of his enemies that he is a
mere creature ot the big corporations,
the primary theme of his writing and
lectures, since he cut his first political
wisdom tooth 44 years ago, has been the
people as the supreme organ of govern-
ment. His very first published paper, his
Bowen Prize graduation essay, issued
in 1917 when he had just turned 22, was
about the “rule of law.” the concept of
the natural rights of individuals and
nations as opposed to the arbitrary will
of governments.
His enthusiasm for cricket runs parallel
with Fox's. He has (like Fox in his early
years again) an 18th century taste for
meditative walking especially with the
right companion. His reading is that of
a natural extension of the normal read-
ing of a late 18th century political in-
tellectual. His speeches and broadcasts,
his talks to universities and his lectures
are allusive and display his broad know-
ledge of the classics of the 18th century,
but I have yet to come on an allusion
later than Carlyle in his scholarly
writings.
nPHERE were some ignoble estimators
who believed his entry into State
politics was the device of a young man in
a hurry who wished to cut out the hurdles
in a race for judicial office. When he
transferred to the Federal seat of
Kooyong in 1934, and immediately into
the unstable Lyons ministry, they were
satisfied that he was merely a cynical
legal opportunist, setting his sights high.
They chortled a bit at his predicament
when he found himself Prime Minister
presiding over a group of ministers,
most of whom were regarding him with
the glare of famished wolverines who
had lured him into the dark forest of the
Cabinet room merely to tear him apart.
The Opposition jeered as one man at
his idealism, his King-and-Empire-ism,
his un-Australianism though actually
in essence and as a product he was Aus-
tralian to down below his bootlaces.
His only connection with other places and
ages were a mind formed by his wide
reading, inevitably mostly European
since he gobbled up Australia's literary
morsels in very short order, and a male
parent who had been member for Lowan
in the Victorian Parliament, but who,
sans moustache, and armed with a
sporran and a small walking-caber would
have been accepted without question as
a native son in any kirk or pub in the
Menzies home-town of Craigellachie.
As for his own people, they were
equally as shocked by the flexibility which
he showed in changing his mind on
such matters as the National Insurance
Bill, as annoyed at his natural air of
conscious superiority, which even once
or twice found support in words when
charged against him by hecklers, “who
wouldn't feel superior in this company?”
—and by the kind of disingenuousness
which found its outlet, for instance, in
an admission of joy at hearing “the
names of all my friends” read out when
Mr Jack Beasley was engaged in pinning
on him the supposedly lethal label
of his association with the B.H.P.
In a time when firmness in dealing
with sedition was obviously a vital neces-


sity according to the U.A.P. political
organisations, he showed a curious in-
ability to see only white and black and
pursued strange tolerances and theories
about human rights and freedoms. He
went the length of refusing, against
pressure, to ban the Communist party,
even at a stage when it had turned all
its high-velocity guns on himself with
the power of the unions which the party
controlled behind the attack. Only when
he felt that the Communist party had
overstepped the line into illegality did he
act against it.
In the House he was still starry-eyed
enough, so long as he was lett alone
personally and the debate proceeded on
purely political lines, to follow his rules
that “the business of political warfare is
not tc destroy your opponent, but to de-
feat him” and that a political leader “must
be a leader, not a delegate, a represen-
tative giving not merely his vote but
his judgment” with moral courage, to
the service of the electorates.
Unfortunately, human nature is not
perfect and then and for years afterwards
he was oversensitive to attacks on his
personal motives and honor ; and his ri-
postes to such assaults were apt to pro-
duce pity for his victim, rather than
sympathy for himself. As Archie
Cameron once remarked when asked to
hold inquest on one victim: “He will
go after rabbits thinking he's a pea rifle.
Nobody can make him realise he s a
field gun.”
“Occupational Disease”
Tn wartime power, he very nearly sur-
A vived as Prime Minister. But only
nearly. He might have made it but for
the fact that the more intimate coterie
of his ministers—Harry Gullett, Geoff
Street and Fairbairn all disappeared in
one shattering explosion along with his
trusted military adviser Brudenell White,
when their Lockheed dived into a hill
coming into Canberra on the morning
of August 13, 1940.
It was on the very eve of the general
election which he was left to fight under
the gravest disabilities, and survive in
office only by grace of two uncertain
independents, with openly exhibited dis-
trust and dissension in his Cabinet, and
what he called the “occupational disease”
of nervousness about electoral opinion
rife among his followers in general.
When “Honest Bob,” “Pig Iron Bob
came out of the Joint Party C aucus room,
later on in 1941 with the air of a samurai
who had just accepted the heira kiri
sword, few of them felt like A. W. Coles,
the independent, who had attended the
meeting.
Menzies had equably offered his resig-
nation —which had been all-too-readily
accepted —and offered to serve under
Arthur Fadden. Coles described the
scene: “I witnessed a lynching organised
by mass hysteria. It was something so
unclean that it will never be erased
from my memory. It was nothing but a
public lynching.”
The shamefaced manipulators of the
rope preferred to remember gratefully
that the actual ceremony had seemed
more like felo de se, and dismiss the
SIR ARTHUR FADDEN AND R. G. MENZIES, 1940
A taste for meditative walking
whole incident with a muttering of
Robert Louis Stevenson's epitaph on
himself, “Thank Heaven, that's the end
of that.” A man so outstanding intel-
lectually, one so inoculated against
“occupational diseases,” one who re-
fused to respond to the “label” treat-
ment and to wilt like last night's jam-pot
lily at the mention of words like “Fascist”
and “Nazi at heart” “warmonger,” was
positively dangerous to have about
King’s Hall.
Many of his fellows in Parliament
would have been glad to see him out
of politics, as his fellows of the law were
ready and anxious to welcome him
back to what they considered his right-
ful sphere. Many thought he was com-
ing back, so pleasant was he about his
deposition. Only Archie Cameron, sit-
ting in his shirtsleeves, with one brace
hanging loose over his left shoulder and
his elastic sides on a Government-owned
table, divined the truth: “Finished?
He’ll be back. The bloomin' big cow’s
only stepped off the road to clean the
muck off his boots and cut himself a
new waddy.” And then he summed up
the reasons for the late (not much la-
mented) Prime Minister's failures: “No
newchum can drive a team of mixed
bullocks bogged in blacksoil and panick-
ing. when he doesn't speak their lan-
guage. A big whip blooming well makes
it worse.” He was not long in learning
“the language.”
It has not even yet dawned on many
people associated with him, that never
from the very beginning had he had
any ambition in life that was not political
—and political in a high sense of the
word. His is essentially a constructive
mind. To annoy him at any time in
the last 20 years one has only had to sug-
gest desertion of his chosen way of life.
Once, when it looked as if Sir John
Latham might retire from the High
Court, I entered into an innocent con-
spiracy with some of those near him
who were becoming uneasy that pres-
sures and tiredness might lead him to
become Chief Justice. I hinted openly
at the possibility in a leading article
in The Bulletin. The mutters of “some-
thing rot” coming from the direction
of the A.C.T. were so menacing that
for some time 1 felt a strong urge to
make a detour via Yarralumla when
called on to pass the Prime Minister’s
Lodge.
To many the mystery of Menzies is still
unsolved. At the turn of the century
when theory still governed politics and
intellect had a great part in the forma-
tion of the polity, he would have been
a natural in an atmosphere in which
Barton and Deakin, Hughes and Paddy
Glynn (“talking like a silvertongued
angel and looking like a black beetle”)
and many more of their particular and
disputatious kind flourished on both
Liberal and Labor sides of the Houses.
He refuses to accept the thesis that
politics has become merely a bread-and-
butter business. He professes the die-hard
theory that they are still a field for the
thinker, the scientist, the missionary
teacher. He has declared “the practice
of politics” to be “of supreme importance
... a fine art, but an inexact science,”
of which he himself is (or was when he
spoke) “one of its most indifferent prac-
titioners” who in his time, he confesses,
“he has been guilty of practically every
indicated error and every fault, though
yet as an artist having a passion for
the art. He is not priggish about it, he
insists. He hates the “modern iconoclast,
the clever . . . pseudo-intellectual who
scoffs at tradition and thinks men are
made of paper and ink.”
“Noble and Humane Emotions-’
The art of politics he has defined as
aiming to “provide, in relation to
public affairs, exposition, persuasion and
inspiration and, through speech or writing
or both to convey to and secure
acceptance of those ideas by others —and
yourself”; to form public opinion ; to
accustom people to long-term thinking
and to stir in them purposes actuated by
“noble and humane emotions.”
He enjoys (he says) the pursuit of these


R. G. MENZIES AND PRESIDENT EISENHOWER, 1960
Happy in the Age of Reason
ms—more corn to the cynical—while
: deplores the gradual blunting of the
Ige of the tools he uses and the loss
the sense of “high purpose" among
ose that use them. He is the deadly
temy, for instance, of- the microphone,
hich he thinks “eliminates the curiously
oving quality of the human voice
rectly heard, destroying the old intimate
intact between speaker and hearer" and
lling the aura of influence—or is it
esmerism—that emanates from a good
id persuasive speaker.
He regrets bitterly, also, the custom
: the written hand-out distributed to
e press before utterance ; for this, he
:lieves, leads to the horrible habit of
ading speeches “with head bowed, with-
it pause or emphasis, point or climax”
id takes out of speaking the “essence"
its power, breaking the speaker's direct
mtact with his listener, and destroying
e listener's sense that the speaker is
(dressing him specifically and solving
r him his own personal problems."
oo Much Finance
Te early put forward his belief that
too much attention was given to the
>litical problem of what to do to the
onomy, finance, etc., rather than to
Termination and practice of how and
hen to do those things, and above all,
>w to persuade a self-governing people
accept them. Nothing, he professed
me years ago, depressed him more than
e “indifference to politics of so many
ousands of active, intelligent minds,”
evidence, not of a superior intelligence,
it of a defective sensibility and imagina-
>n.”
He mourns the viewpoint—the “dead-
:st" to a liberty which is meant only for
e responsible—in which “the desire for
eedom appears to connote impatience,
• at the least, indifference to Govern-
ent.
Generally speaking, he has been con-
dent in promulgating his views and in
□thing them with flesh. His aspirations
e always there, even when he has
bowed, gracefully or not, to circum-
stance ; as for instance in his changed
view of the British Commonwealth
which acknowledges that his old aim
for a united policy among Common-
wealth nations is now momentarily im-
practicable to achieve —even though still
to be worked for.
His views on inflation and the means
of dealing with it, are deeprooted and
immutable. It is interesting to hear him
saying as far back as September, 1942,
that “inflation may be a pleasant drug,
but its reaction is disastrous" and that
the only “real answer" to it is to “divert
purchasing power from the citizen to the
Government." Those who blame Mr
Harold Holt for certain recent events
might read this sentence with interest.
Menzies as a debater can be implac-
able. He prepares carefully and his
sense of drama and “stage" is unsur-
passed even among professional actors.
He has the art of contemptuous silence
as highly developed as the art of speech.
He also has fixed ideas about the value
of laughter. Had it not been for his
gift of humor and a carefully planned
regimen of systematic relaxation, even
a magnificent physique and a well-chan-
nelled mind under full conscious con-
trol could scarcely have saved him for
so long in the height of his powers in
a job which has killed or driven out every
other Prime Minister in history in short
order. Even Billy Hughes showed signs
of breaking before he was sent into
the wilderness.
But diversion and a studied alternation
of interest save him. He finds time to
dine his advisory committees on art and
literature when they come to Canberra.
He makes a hobby of the development
of Canberra itself. He has great powers
of recovery from fatigue. You see him
sitting, apparently worn out, flushed with
tiredness on the Treasury Bench. Ten
minutes later, he bounces into the
Cabinet room where post-sitting drinks
are being served, seizes a glass and the
conversation and becomes the dynamic
of two or three hours of sometimes
hilarious anecdotage, at the end of which
he looks as fresh as a daisy.
Confidential Privacy
TTis mind has one peculiar faculty—
that of being able to handle two dif-
ferent subjects efficiently in parallel. In
negotiation sometimes, he will seem
scarcely to be listening, but the discussion
in hand is a lemon out of which he is
sucking all the juice while he contem-
plates at the same time, some unrelated
problem. When it comes to an issue
anybody who has thought him inatten-
tive will quickly find out his mistake.
He displays, moreover, in places where he
consorts publicly with others, a strange
chameleon - like capacity for building
an aura of confidential privacy around
himself and his interlocutor who often
feels that he is talking to him in a vacuum.
Exactly how it is done, whether by the
manner in which he keys down the
modulation of his voice or otherwise,
I have never been able to determine.
Probably the only circle in which he
has nothing but admirers and would get
a 100 per cent, vote is that embracing
all cricket enthusiasts. Between these
and himself, as he confessed last year
in his preface to lan Peebles’s “Bowler's
Turn," there is a “great bond." He
pronounces the game “a great art,’*
contemplation of which for a few days
in the year “adds to his inner reserves" ;
a game of “quick and perceptive intelli-
gence and wit" —wit that represents “the
quick pouncing of the mind," at which he
is something of an adept in other fields.
He pronounces lan Peebles, incidentally,
as a slow bowler to be one of the elite —
“the fly-fishermen of cricket."
Watching cricket, he will sometimes
start an impromptu talk about something
far away with whoever happens to be
next to him. In the middle of it he will
suddenly say “Ah," and then something
notable will have occurred in the game,
perhaps something that nobody else has
realised. That happened when David-
son was pulverising the West Indians
on the Sydney Cricket Ground in the
Test and one who was with him swore
that he was at least three balls ahead
of anybody else in realising that David-
son had injured himself.
His future? Who can tell? Especially
since the withdrawal of the last experi-
enced figure in Opposition who would
bear comparison with him as a thinker,
he has presented himself in politics as
a large accomplished fact, a permanent
piece of the political scene which shows
no sign of either disappearing or mov-
ing from its accustomed place.
His reign, of course, will end, but
whenever it may be he will have made
his mark as the Prime Minister who has
reigned longest in the Commonwealth and
who has established the voice of Aus-
tralia as a major factor in the interna-
tional sphere in the grand manner in
which he does everything.


How to Lose Friends
By PETER HASTINGS
Being a professional interviewer is
not as easy as many people like
to think. With a few exceptions
I find that people not only deny
having said what they have said but they
just don’t believe they have said it. They
also have fixed ideas on the sort of per-
sonality they should present to the world.
Don’t we all? But this taught me very
early to go along and interview a person
with no preconceived notions of what
they are like. This at least enables me
to cope with the desire of most people
to project a particular—and possibly
profitable —image of themselves. They
are justifiably annoyed when the inter-
viewer exercises his right to project some-
thing else. I'm quite prepared to go
along with their notion. I'll happily pro-
ject any image they want with the clear
implication, of course, that this is some-
thing they want and not necessarily
something which I believe to be true.
All of this sounds a great deal more
solemn than it really is. What I am try-
ing to say is that most people giving
an interview answer questions and then,
if the interviewer is reasonably sympa-
thetic and intelligent, they start off by
themselves. Very soon there are appar-
ent contradictions which to me make up
the fascination of personality. The rest,
so far as I am concerned, is a matter
of good memory, a good ear for stress
and idiom, a capacity for significant
selection and —above all —an ability to
draw people out. Many people have said
to me that the most effective part of the
interviews I have done is the use of the
plural, “we.” This is a “New Yorker"
technique, although it was long used
before the “New Yorker” existed and
indeed is used in all sorts of newspapers
and magazines. Its main function so far
as I am concerned is to confer anony-
mity and unobtrusiveness on the inter-
viewer. This doesn't always work. Used
without thought or care it merely gives
whatever you write a flippancy wh.ch 1
seldom intend. In some interviews the
use of the word “we” is just impossible.
This technique, if it can be dignified
with the word, often alarms the subject
of an interview when he comes to read
what was written about him. I don't
know why it should but it does. Danny
Kaye objected to it and somebody, I
forget who. said that 1 must have been
frightened by the “New Yorker when
1 was small. But Kaye also complained
that I had taken advantage of him during
a day-long round of golf to report his
conversation complete with blasphemies.
I make no apologies for reporting blas-
phemies in an adult and serious maga-
zine. As for taking advantage of him,
that is quite absurd, as the whole point
of the game (there was no other ; he
plays off nine, and I off 25) was to report
what he said. It was his agent who blew
the gaff. Apparently I had not carried
out my undertaking that this would be
a serious interview. Thus it became a
matter of interpretation. 1 thought it was
deadly serious.
But Danny Kaye had a particular image
of himself as not only an artist but as a
thinker. The only “serious” conversa-
tions with him in the course of that long
day had been: (1) His work with
UNICEF. His main interest there was
himself. (2) White Australia policy, which
he regarded as offensive. He had a very
simple theory about how Australia should
manage its foreign policy with Asia. The
doors should be opened wide. The
sooner Australia was populated by a
fusion of races —in fact he applied this
theory to the world at large —the happier
we would all be. (3) He asked me if
Sydney police were as corrupt as those
of New York's finest. On receiving my
answer he pursued the subject no further.
However, he remained disgruntled about
the interview.
And then there are those people who
simply refuse to believe that they
have said what they have in fact said,
like the >oung, beautiful, talented and
charming actress who bailed me up in
King's Cross one night not long ago and
For the past three years
Peter Hastings has been the
Observer’s Chief Interviewer.
said, “My God, I have a bone to pick
with you. I never blaspheme in con-
versation and yet your piece is full of
it.” So was she. But what chance have
you? I remember that Joyce Grenfell
was particularly bitter about an inter-
view I had with her. It contained three
small errors of fact. Two were due to
simple misunderstanding. The other was
negligence on my part for which I duly
apologised. When things quietened down
it was also her agent who let the cat out
of the bag
She had told me some very witty and,
I thought, perceptive “in and out" stories.
After all this time I remember chiefly
that there was some question as to the
Royal Family being in or out and the
Dockers being so far out they were in.
The heading over the story ran: “Joyce
Grenfell: Is She In or Out?” Apparently
this infuriated her to the point where
for the whole of her stay in Sydney she
never missed an opportunity to condemn
what she regarded as caddish behavior.
Personally I thought her a most charming
and talented person and permanently
“in.”
The most distressing reaction I had to
any interview I have ever done wa|e
strangely enough to the first in what wate
to prove quite a long series. Several
years ago the former Chief Minister ojo
Singapore, David Marshall, was heres
He was intelligent, sensitive and percept
tive. He had also, in the nature oic
events, lost out in the race for political
power to far tougher, more realistic mem
He was by combination of nature anc
legal training a talkative,
fluent man and far from Singapon
talked very frankly indeed. Looking
back, it was inevitable, I suppose, that he
should have regretted being impolitic:;
But the fact was that he was indiscreet!
His reaction was very painful and among
other things he demanded that a very
large sum of money be paid into hi si
Singapore bank by way of redress. Pan
of these reactions I invite simply by noi<
taking notes until the interview is oven
As 1 have explained, 1 have a good
memory for facts and a good ear foi
idiom and stress. But if I take notes
1 notice that people invariably clam up'
A person taking notes is inhibiting like
a policeman. If you don’t take notes
and listen sympathetically and intelli-
gently —guiding the conversation where
one must for the sake of sheer order, nol
to mention brevity—the reaction is much
more spontaneous and open - hearted.
Nor does it always get you into trouble.
A rare few are grateful for being
reported simply and accurately.
MOW and then you get the completely
uninterviewable person. What mighl
have been a unique interview was ruined
in this way. I was the only reporter ir
Australia to get a private interview with
Lord Tedder when he was here.
aides and the company which he repre-
sented both made it very clear when j
saw him that he would have nothing t<
say about the war, war-time leaders, Sij
Winston, President Eisenhower, strategy;
the atom-age Air Force, the Soviet Unior
or international politics. It just aboul
ruled out the lot. However, I went tc
see him. He finally emerged from hi!
bedroom into the lounge-room and sa;
down. He was a short, wiry little mat
with an enormous head, a pipe and 2
beautiful although most indistinct voict
which forced one to listen most carefully
to everything he had to say. He wa!
very intelligent and quick - witted and
extremely amusing. I finally persuadec
him to show me some drawings he hac
executed on his trip here. They were th<
sort that occasionally one saw done by
a talented R.S.M. or junior leader during
the war—quick, lively, accurate sketches
of places, things and people. Nice 1 fcj
intelligence files. One thing led tc
another and eventually we had a mosi
animated conversation about a numbei
of quite forbidden things. Would I gei
away with it after all? He looked a
his watch, rose, and I shook hands witt
him. “You do get people to talk doni
you?” he said. “It’s really quite clevei
of you. I quite forbid you to use any-
thing I have said. Goodbye and good
luck.” And that was that.


When A.M.P. was founded
in 1849, our troops
looked like this
L
/
A- i'
I M
3 -
a
9
?
.A
S?
u
VV ! u
\T,
a
19
li p
9C6C
MODERN A.M.P. POLICIES are geared to modern
needs. Business and professional men need adequate
information on “How Taxation Savings Affect Life
Insurance as an Investment”. Ask any A.M.P. man or
A.M.P. office for a copy of the leaflet with the title quoted.
Australia’s LARGEST and oldest
life assurance organisation
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
A.M.P. members enjoy the unquestioned security afforded by funds of £500,000,000
which the Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to members.


Revolt in Darwin
By K. G. WILLEY
The Federal Government again
faces a constitutional crisis in the
Northern Territory by its dis-
allowance of two Bills which the
Legislative Council passed last year.
Whatever happens at the Councils
meeting on March 20, it will be the most
momentous meeting since April, 1958,
when all the elected members resigned
and forced the Federal Government to
accept sweeping constitutional retorms.
The two rejected Bills, passed in
September, were on strictly internal
matters. The fust would have returned
to magistrates discretionary powers when
sentencing offenders for supplying liquor
to wards and dropped the iniquitous
practice of “six months' jail without
option' which is the present minimum
sentence for first offenders. Ihe second
would have legalised s.-p. betting in
isolated areas.
Within a few days after the dis-
allowance was confirmed Mr Dick Ward
and Mr Len Purkiss resigned their posts
on the Administrator’s Council —a regu-
lation-making “higher executive every
elected member bitterly criticised both
Mr Hasluck and the Government ; and
two of the three Government-nominated
non-official members, Mr John Tonkin
and Mr Berme Kilgariff, expressed open
disquiet at Canberra's action.
Distrust of the Minister for Territories,
Mr Paul Hasluck, is widespread in
the north. He visits the Territory only
rarely, and never for more than a few
days at a time. Although his interest in
the natives is undeniable, he is so out
of touch with white opinion that his first
reaction to the 1958 walkout from the
Legislative Council was a contemptuous
quip blaming it all on the "hot climate.
Since then the original distrust of the
Minister has changed, in many quarters,
to outright dislike.
Of course, all the trouble cannot be
blamed on Mr Hasluck. The lerritorians
have always proved unruly subjects and
have seldom felt much affection tor the
succession of rulers the Federal Govern-
ment has placed over them. The most
spectacular outbreak was back in Decem-
ber, 1918, when the Government, which
then controlled the hotels, raised the price
of beer. Infuriated Darwinites rioted,
burnt the Administrator, Dr Gilruth, in
effigy and stormed the Residency. Dr
Giiruth was ordered to “get out or be
chucked out’ and a few weeks later was
escorted to the wharf and seen aboard a
south-bound ship. Then, before the war,
there was the passive-resistance campaign
for “no taxation without representation.”
Many leading citizens were jailed for
refusing to pay their taxes. Public, and
even official, sympathy for these men
was so great that the town band used
to serenade them regularly from outside
the galvanised-iron walls of Darwin’s
Fannie Bay Jail, food was thrown over
to them, and the jailer often let them out
at nights to attend picture shows or visit
their families.
After the war demands for some form
of internal self-government reached fever
pitch. Such leading Territorians as Eddie
Connellan, Frank Johnson, D. D. “Hur-
ricane” Smith, Jock Nelson and others
banded together in the North Australian
Development League, pledged to battle
for a Northern Territory Legislative
Council. The league dissolved immedi-
ately the council was set up in 1947. But
DICK WARD
“I quit”
it soon became apparent that the Legisla-
tive Council, inaugurated with such high
hopes, was to be no more than a rubber
stamp for decisions made in Canberra.
The seven Government members —all
officially appointed public servants —con-
sistently voted as a bloc to defeat any-
thing the six elected men put forward.
In case of accidents the Administrator
had veto powers. He never had to use
them. Finally the Chamber had become
such a farce that members referred 1
openly to its deliberations as “the game
of sixes and sevens”—although the
general standard of debate was very high,
and better than in some State Houses.
“The game of sixes and sevens” ended
in April, 1958, when the six elected
members walked out of the Chamber in
protest against “dictatorship.” All re-
signed next day. Brennan declared war
on Minister Hasluck, whom he described
as “a blinking fool.”
In Darwin, Katherine, Tennant Creek
and Alice Springs the six “rebels”]
harangued the mob. A petition, with
hundreds of signatures, was sent off to
the Queen stressing the “urgent need" for
Territorians to have more say in running -
their own affairs. The Federal Member
Jock Nelson took up the cudgels in the
House of Representatives and a group
of Government backbenchers echoed the
call for constitutional reform in the
North. The six “rebels” stood for re-
election and went back with thumping
majorities.
Finally the Federal Government ga>e
way and summoned all Legislative Coun-
cillors —Government and elected alike—
to reform talks in Canberra. The upshot
was the present “reconstituted Legislative
Council.” This strangely assorted body
includes eight elected members, six
official members (public servants) and
three “nominated non-official members.”
These last, who hold the balance of
power, are private citizens nominated by.
the Government. I
For those key posts Canberra picked
three able men —John Tonkin, who bosses
the Rum Jungle uranium project; the
Alice Springs businessman Bernie Kil-
aariff; and Mr W. Mathieson of Sydney,
a man with wide experience in the
northern pastoral industry. Far fiom
proving stooges, the nominated non-
official members have taken their duties
seriously and more often than not have
sided with the elected members against
the Government bloc.
Why the Government chose to provoke
an inevitably bitter political row is
not clear. The betting Bill, in particular,
was a sober measure which several among
the elected members privately considered
"too tough.” Stringent penalties and
safeguards were included apparently
with the hope of making it acceptable
to the Government. „ , .
On the Licensing Bill Mr Hasluck
has stated often that the “six months
minimum” will remain as long as he is
in office. But just why he is so attached
to this particular law is open to question.
It has failed to deter natives from drink-
ing liquor and it has failed to trap the
professionals. What it has done is to
jail a never-ending string of half-castes
and aboriginal citizens for sharing liquor
with their friends.
There are also other cases with ex-
tenuating circumstances. On those freez-
ing desert nights inland a drover would
be hard-hearted indeed if he refused a
tot of rum to a native stockboy whoj
had been out with the cattle all night.
Yet, if caught, he must go to jail for
at least six months.
The Bill, by returning discretionary


power to magistrates, w'ould have enabled
courts to “separate the sheep from the
goats.” Professionals, or men who bought
native girls with liquor, would still have
been jailed. But in very many cases
the offence is not at all serious and should
draw no more than a fine for first
offenders.
Now the chips are down. If the elected
members go to the full limit of mass
resignations again they would command
wide popular support inside the Territory
and in influential circles down South. In
Alice Springs, where feeling is particu-
larly bitter, serious public unrest is
possible, while Tennant Creek is already
seething with discontent. It may be that
Mr Hasluck's political future will yet be
decided, not in New Guinea, but in the
Northern Territory.
Regulars and C.M.F.
By "EK DUM"
Concluding a series on Australian Defence
The reorganisation of the Army as
pictured by the Minister for
Defence, Mr Townley, in the
House of Representatives on
November 26, 1959, was not completely
dictated by considerations of military
efficiency.
The weather eye of the Ministry and
Command, it was announced, had been
on this project “for some time,” but it
found “further progress in the desired
direction frustrated by heavy mainten-
ance, training and administrative burdens
imposed on the Army by its present tasks
and form of organisation ”
In “accordance with the unanimous
view of the Chiefs of Staff, and with
defence thinking throughout the world
today” (it seemed) there must be “major
reorganisation to enable it to concen-
trate on the provision of equipment ”
Almost 3000 Regular Army personnel,
the Minister said, were engaged in
the administration and training of
national servicemen, and the scheme
called for maintenance of command and
administrative organisations materially
larger than would otherwise be necessary
Nobody can blame interested parties
who interpret these sentences to mean
that ihe national training scheme was an
all-dashed nuisance to he Staff and
Regular Army component, more especi-
ally as in the ministerial statement in
which it occurred nothing was said about
the fact that, whatever else they are, the
Staff Corps and the Regular Army are
usually held up as being justified in exist-
ing because they are the central training
and expansion cadre, the kernel of the
traditional citizen defence system of the
Commonwealth.
Theoretically, they have always been
designed to keep in being the germ of a
rapid citizen force expansion to be
achieved by call-up of already basically
trained human material. It is only since
World War II that the Regular Army
has had any combat battalions of in
fantry at all. Its enemies could easily
draw from the details of the 1959 plan
the inference that it had been designed
by Regulars for Regulars who held that
national training was a luxury, an
excrescence which hampered real defence
by the Regular Army by eating up its
means of sustenance.
Take this tit-bit:
Tlie total annual eost of National Service
training is over £Jtm. a year, which repre-
sent* a subtraction of one-seventh of the
present Army vote from higher priority
military tasks, particularly the provision
of modern equipment.
One might think that modern equip-
ment depended for its efficiency on the
training of men to use it. Also, that it
was the duty of the 3000, inferentially
wasted members of the permanent forces,
to teach university students, clerks and
others who were drawn into the net of
compulsory national training to perform
just these “higher priority” functions.
A el that seems to have come out of
the National Training Scheme is a
defeatist belief that the money spent on
it has been wasted and filched from its
rightful purpose of supporting “higher
priority military tasks”—the building up
of the Regular brigade group.
“National servicemen complete their
periods in C.M.F. units, some of whom
are liable for overseas service and others
who are not liable for overseas service,”
according to the Minister, who added:
Thus, if an emergency developed and
it became necessary t*> mobilise, extensive
rearrangement and cross-posting would be
necessary within the C.M.F., and this at
a time wlien any delay might be dangerous.
If any veteran C.O. of the country dis-
tricts of N. S. Wales is moved to utter,
on reading this, the vulgar expression,
“For crying out loud!” his spiritual
advisers should give him immediate
absolution.
He will recall the haughty scorn, or
complete disregard, with which the
powers-that-be turned down battalions
offering to enlist en tnasse on the
apparent assumption that even in the
“giggle suit” period no war could be
properly conducted without general
“extensive rearrangement and cross-post-
ing” (now deprecated) which would pre-
vent battalions becoming pressure groups
exhibiting esprit de corps and depriving
the authorities of the pleasure of train-
ing their members again along with a lot
of rookies.
The statistical upshot of the re-
organisation of the permanent establish-
ment, ostensibly so vital for strategical
reasons which had so suddenly developed
in 1959 and inferentially so that more
money could be poured into enlarging
and re-equipping the Regular Brigade
Group, was as follows: The Citizen
Forces had reached a peak strength of
87,300 in 1956, but in 1959 had dwindled
to 61,000, including National Service
trainees doing their initial 77 days’ train-
ing.
Tt was proposed to decrease the C.M.F.
further to 30,000 under the new 7 scheme.
The Regular Army, in the same period,
had been cut down from 23,059 to
20,200 largely because of the fall off in
those needed to drill national trainees
under the 1957 scheme. It was proposed
to increase the Regular group strength
from 4100 to 5500 when it became “pen-
tropic.”
With only a brigade group of Regular
fighting troops, plus those in Malaya and
30,000 citizen troops on paper (actually
over 25,000 today), provision was made
for 2723 commissioned officers.
There are nearly half as many majors,
captains, lieutenants and second lieuten-
ants as there will be in the total Regular
“fighting” force, when it reaches total
strength, officers and men included, of the
pentropic brigade. The total of warrant
officers is not far below half the strength
of the full Order of Battle of the brigade
group.
There are enough w.os., staff sergeants
and sergeants to make up the front battle
line of the Brigade Group—s2B4 against
the parade strength of the brigade group,
5500.
There are 75 officers of the rank of
colonel and above, including two
lieutenant-generals and 10 major-generals
and 20 brigadiers and 190 lieutenant-
colonels against 196 last year.
The C.M.F. are no longer “initial
forces.” That proud title has been
taken away from the heirs of those
who, in the main, made the landing on


Anzac Beach, the volunteers. They have
been officially reduced to the ranks as
“follow-up forces only”:
It is in the provision of follow-up forces
which can become operational in a short
period, that the C.M.F. has a most im-
portant part to play.
The Government, before it introduced
the new scheme, had, however, “given
close attention to building the C.M.F.
into a strong and efficient force,” now “all
volunteers in the Australian Army tradi-
tion”; but, of course, organised “in
keeping with current strategic priorities.”
In o»der to make volunteer service
“more attractive.” Mr Townley says that
“it has been decided that C.M.F. training
will be integrated with that of regular
units” and camp training carried out as
far as possible with elements of the
Regular Brigade Group. “Large scale
combined training will be held periodic-
ally.”
There was a curious variation of detail
between the ministerial explanation
of the Three-Year Defence Plan on
November 26, 1959, and the supplemen-
tary explanations of the same defence
plan by the same Minister and the
Minister for the Army, Mr Cramer, on
March 29, 1960.
In the earlier issued plan everything
was (a) on a brigade group basis; (b)
the Regular Army, a “brigade group,”
was isolated as a “thoroughly trained,
readily available, well-equipped force . . .
the most effective Army formation ever
established in this country in peace-
time,” the “initial force”; (c) the C.M.F.
was the “follow-up forces which can
become operational in a short period . . .
which has a most important part to play
. . . with an order of battle of six infantry
brigade groups, with appropriate combat
and logistic support forces, replacing the
present framework of three C.M.F. divi-
sions ... so organised that some C.M.F.
brigade groups will be available in a very
much shorter time than has previously
been possible for C.M.F. forces.”
The outcry which followed this wiping
out of the old historic battalions of the
C.M.F. and its divisional organisation
apparently shocked the Defence Depart-
ment to its core.
In the first statement issued the word
“divisions” was only used once —in rela-
tion to their abandonment as formations.
“Integration” was only mentioned to say
that “camp training would be carried out
as far as possible with elements of the
Regular Brigade Group.”
But in March, the divisional organisa-
tion had apparently turned up again.
On the face of it the brigade group idea
seemed to have been abandoned and the
N.S.VV. and Queensland battalion groups
of the C.M.F., blushing with pride at the
honor, integrated into the First Pentropic
Division as the “follow-up,” reserve or
second-line troops of the elite vanguard
of the two immediately available regi-
ments of the Royal Australian Regiment,
the main corpus of the Regular Army
Brigade Group —which was not reterred
to as such.
The rest of the scraps, outside N.S.VV.
and Queensland, of what used to be the
C.M.F. battalions that did the main fight-
ing nearly all the lighting —of two wars,
was shown as grouped round a head-
quarters of its own in Victoria as the
“Third (Pentropic) Division,” with no
integration with Regular battalion
groups. Presumably their role in war is
as the reserves of the reserves.
A close inspection shows the whole
suddenly conceived divisional set-up to
be sheer camouflage. How can a body
of volunteers be produced capable of
handling the immensely complicated,
highly professionalised, drilled-to-the-
split-second, scientifically precise,
intensely weaponed and versatile torma-
tion of pentropic units on annual train-
ing of 14 days’ camp, with or without
the professionals, seven days' indiv.dual
obligatory training and 12 optional days’
training?
Only an expert like Mr Cramer would
know.
How pentropic-age C.M.F. officers can
be turned out with an extra night a week
plus 20 days in schools and courses per
annum additional to the unit programme
even he wouldn't know.
And how a force dubbed “second line”
and “follow-up” can be trained and
integrated with full-time professionals —
who speak a different language and
whose officer corps is undoubtedly
reserved under this system for the higher
commands and is integrated in tradition
with the Staff Corps —and not lose its
pride in itself Mars himself couldn't
explain. That is, even if Regular and
C.M.F. can be “integrated” at all, save on
a master and servant basis.
Whatever camouflage has been thrown
over the plan to smother public outcry,
the truth remains. The basis of the
scheme is the brigade group ; the brigade
groups are divided into the elite Regu-
lars and their humble second line of
“follow-uppers,” the C.M.F.
However, nothing better can be ex-
pected in the present deterrent-fazed
condition of public opinion. It is as
much the fault of the civilian classes,
from whom citizen defence is drawn, as
of anybody, or perhaps more so. If the
Regulars are left to design the defence
scheme, with a lukewarm public resistant
to effective service, nobody can be blamed
if the Devil looks after his own.
Priority in equipment, of course, has
been given to the Regular Brigade
Group. It is still not complete, by any
means.
'T'here were many, including senior
•*- A.I.F. officers, who have carefully
refrained during the past year from
criticising the new scheme. Nobody dis-
putes the desirability of a modern brigade
group, fully armed and equipped and
ready for emergency, if only as a proto-
type. But there is unease and even
bewilderment at the strength of the
Regular officer corps, and some mystery
about what a lot of them —and a lot
more of subordinates —are supposed to
be doing
The status of the Volunteer Force
needs lifting. It should be put on a
basis of drive and efficiency to make
those who join it feel at once that they
are in something that is worth while.
It needs an ingredient of imagination
and a quality of zip and competition to
make those who join feel that they are
getting somewhere and not wasting their
time.
Save for university regiments, which
are officer-training corps, and the islands
in which the Old and Bold still huddle
together clutching the old flags in a spirit
of hope, almost nobody is going into
it except those who want a bit of extra
pay to buy an electric concertina or who
hope to get some free training which will
help them in a trade or at the university.
Some just need the pay.
The mere joy and the raison d’etre of
soldiering are dead. Recruiting appeals
are on a utilitarian basis for the most part
and the extensive advertising for troops
issued by the Army, whether the call is
for Regulars or C.M.F., has a desperate
and unreal air about it. "Public rela-
tions” hand-outs are for babes only.
It is hard to believe, for instance, that
in a country of 10-million population
whose youth are probably, on the
average, the best physical specimens in
the world, the Army feels it necessary
to hold up to candidates for a career as
Regular soldiers the inducement that "the
smart new helmet pictured above” —an
American one, of course —‘'is symbolic
of the change in the new Army’ anc
appeal for recruits in such jargon as,
‘'You can fly in the Army, sail with your
Army, drive with the Army. It s pen-
tropic, and triphibious . . . our Austra-
lian Army can really go places.”
What the taxpayers might begin to ask
themselves is whether it can win wars.
At present it seems to be largely the
playground of a privileged group of
theorists, enchanted with the great
thoughts of the Pentagon and without
one original thought about what should
be done if a quota of some enemy gets
loose in the wide open Australian
spaces ; or about instructing and arming
and teaching the general run of the local
population what to do in that and other
sinister emergencies which are likely in
global war, despite the initial impacts of
deterrents.


For every type of roof . . . and
every roofing purpose . . .
mm
iSviiS-'ivSiiii
LYSHGHT
STEEL SHEET ROOFING
■Mb
&i*c-
-3®&siP
M& M
* • ■'•
vm&aa
.jsm
:■>*' : vkV*'
#£** .
• -..-:
.
111 "■*
J 1
r
p
>*-
i. .
TmHP TT ?'/*\> i fT» T i^ rr?w-
/IS A' A ?
* *F*r
fl--j |-, [
* ♦ ♦ ** *
V*
✓
*3Ki^ls
■
<
m
'***»**>
y-Xr
i j*
i.:
Now . . . with a choice of THREE modern Lysaght sheet styles you
can be sure of getting the perfect 1ow t pitched roof for your new home.
Each Lysaght sheet style has its own special advantages but all have
durability, economy and ease of handling that no other roofing material
can match.
Put it to your architect before you finally approve specifications. Ask
him to explain the many advantages of the Lysaght roofing materials
that are now available . . .
W3???1-524-5-~_;-;;:<,:-_:;'.;13;;’._§
"‘5;
415'?“ ‘ :'-:<-’;3;;;:; 125.55,
£4" "1:403; a.-.;.}—_“.;._. 3 1‘. :'j
.. "5133" '4’.’1?gi}?:~:v_‘.-;;'.;:;‘.;4.;.;z..
t:->:~‘.-:«:‘~".~:$.-_¢. .- _ - . .V.\_:,._x5_$
E$::'Il’wm'ﬂ. .; .-.'-.'F_‘.f-':1:‘ - .
'izititk-ii 'g c .14: 32:11-21:-
531‘3‘23 Q5 -'.':-_.- ‘- ;.-_.-_:~_._-..__:3
iii-'55. -.-'.;.-' ,.;.-_.,,._,__.’
r:-:{.-;{.;:;.-,y?_p,-.-_.__;; --"—$11:‘»:'-:-j.-_;-
"2'13"” r V titan-.7. . .4
34’1“ ‘ " :~'.-;-'.-'::v.-1;;.-,.
Vii ﬂai‘iﬁiﬁiﬁ' : _:-j.
”yo‘a
- ~ ~. 32:51:;
”W
My: 'i‘ :4. -"1"."'2"":3‘."."."."{31:11:11}
“*ﬁiwmgga;
$31-$52. . .-.-.-;,,:v;v‘.;:5-3-535‘:;:;};.I~_..;.._)
:‘:-":4":ngif.5.‘!-'."‘3’-?-‘.-".-‘}:1.'~:~:'-7'§:;'.
-'. .- r:
*3m~~,
9"“
[5,;
“555-3355‘335’5932:25:55:'i§:';!
,ust published . . . fascinating new guide to the newest trends in
home design. Send for your copy today! Fill in and post coupon below.
John Lysaght (Australia) Limited,
Port Line Building, 50 Young St., Sydney.
Please send me, without cost or obligation, the new Lysaght
Portfolio of Low Cost Home Plans.
NAME
ADDRESS
STATE
3 TYPES
TO CHOOSE
FROM
Corrugated: Lysaght Red Orb
Sheet, made especially rigid
for roofing purposes, has almost
endless application* in the
building industry. Available in
all wanted widths and lengths;
also pre-painted in aluminium
where speedy finishing is a
factor.
Flat: Essential for forming
guttering, downpipes, etc.;
also widely used for special
roofing purposes and effects.
*Klip-Lok! New smartly ribbed,
heavily galvanized Steel Sheet
with self-locking shoulders for
flat and near flat roofing, and
wall cladding. In cost-saving
unbroken lengths to 50 ft.
♦Patent No. 222046
&
GI3XCC


The Bible Hullabaloo
By CECIL MANN
There are two curiously contradic-
tory facts about the Bible —the
fact that any daily, or even less
regular, reading of the Bible, either
as a customary home rite or from in-
dividual private preference and interest,
began to join the dodo a full century
ago ; and the fact that throughout this
past century of rapidly failing bibliolatry,
as in the heyday of genuine Bible read-
ing, the Bible has gone on being all the
time a world bestseller!
These are both well attested pheno-
mena. There are doubtless many ways
in which they might be reconciled, as
there are doubtless a variety of causes
for both. On the steady bestselling
aspect of the Bible, the British and
Foreign Bible Society (which had a
hand, too. in the current new translat-
ing) reported about seven years ago that
the Scriptures were then available in
over 1100 translations. Among other
similarly striking facts, it added that
since its own foundation in 1804 it had
distributed 600 million books. In one
year (1953) “more than a thousand tons
of books were sent out" from the
Society's London headquarters. The
Society's exports are heavily subsidised,
on the principle that “no man should be
debarred from possessing a copy ol the
Scriptures merely lor lack ot money ;
but, in any case, bestsellers do not come
better than that.
The most notable bestseller rush com-
parable with the current one was that
which delighted the booksellers and
greatly encouraged Christian leaders, es-
pecially in America, in the early 19505,
not for a new translation but for what,
in the reading, amounts to a very close
approach to one the Revised Standard
Version. Two months after its publica-
tion in September, 1952. it was reported
to have then already broken all pub-
lishing records. In those two months it
had sold 1.600.000 copies, and another
large printing was already in the press
towards meeting the continuing demand.
In the American context the only com-
parable bestselling performance was that
of “Gone With the Wind," which had
sold a million copies in less than six
months.
So much, then, for the Bible as a best-
seller, past and present. On the other
aspect of the twin phenomena the
oarallel decline, not to say end, of general
Bible reading—the present writer's per-
sonal experience has been that even
among a thoroughly representative lot
of literary friends he has figured as some-
what freakish in actually being fond of
the Bible, in any of the leading versions.
But this is merely minor testimony, per-
haps signifying nothing. By a rather odd
coincidence a piece of testimony incom-
parably more weighty is here at hand.
The authority is Basil Willey, King
Edward VII Professor of English Litera-
ture, Cambridge, in a scholarly article
on the social influence of the Bible from
the beginnings of Christianity on through
to the present. As he reports it, the
position up to about the middle of last
century was that then many even of the
“agnostics and scientific belligerents—
men such as Leslie Stephen, John Morley,
Frederic Harrison, Huxley, and the rest
—had been nuitured upon the Bible
from infancy, and never lost their know-
ledge and love of it.' By the 1870 s
Matthew Arnold was lamenting that “the
masses were losing touch with the Bible."
Professor Willey then adds this striking
testimony:
“He (Matthew Arnold! would have been
still more disquieted by the situation today,
when it is precarious to risk a biblical
allusion, even in so-called “educated circles,
if one is at all anxious to be understood.
The great majoiity of the young of today
have not been taught the Bible at their
mother’s knee, nor heard it read aloud at
family piayers or in church; they know as
little about it as they do about Homer or
Virgil.”
Referring to the British and Foreign
Bible Society's translating and distribu-
ting of the Bible, Professor Willey finds
that “the dissemination of Bibles" has
meanwhile proceeded “in inverse ratio
to the amount of Bible reading done at
home," which brings us to the core of
this one of the main reasons backing
the latent, and thus far superbly accom-
plished, translating of the Bible into
current English, and buoying the hopes
of the translators and of leading church-
men as well. To put it at its simplest
term, the main reason backing the new
translation has been the desire to produce
a freely readable English Bible tor today
—a Bible in normal current good English
that anyone who can read at all might
read with ease. The hope —which is quite
another thing is that making such a
Bible available will lead to a popular
revival of general Bible reading.
Tn the current uproar over the present
A new translation there has been, of
course, a good deal of downright mis-
representation of the translators simple
aims, and also of their great achievement.
A typical example of this nonsense
appeared in the London “Daily Tele-
graph": “Whether or not the translators
have achieved their aim of timeless
English, time alone must show." But
the translators professed no such aim.
Their professed aim in this respect was
English as it is familiarly written and
spoken today —no more nor less.
The other main aim was accuracy,
as near as this can be achieved in trans-
lation. On this, too—as well as on that
main manifestation in the current hulla-
baloo, the quoting of selected, time-
familiarised, lofty purple passages from ff
the Authorised and other old Versions z
by way of heaping ridicule on the plain n
simplicity of the new —Professor Willey v
also had a pertinent word to say in
advance of the uproar. It can be appro- -
priately noted here in passing that up q
to about ten years before publication of
this new New' Testament modern scholar- -
ship had already uncovered nearly 6000 6
errors of translation in the New Testament J
alone, and no doubt the biblical scholars'"
responsible for the present translation
have uncovered, and often silently
corrected, a good many more.
Writing in 1954. Professor Willey said: j
"II new translations ot the Bible, trans-
lations into the English of today, continue
to be produced (as they do), it must be on
the . . assumption that, however beautiful
and irreplaceable the. Authorised Version i
may be for those with a trained literary
taste, there are hundreds of thousands who j
will never read it in that version, yet who ;
need the saving truths contained in the 1
Bible, and need them in a form which is
accurate, intelligible, and contemporary.
Many of those who most loudly extol the j
beauties of the King James Bible and most I
bitterly deplore all attempts to modernise j
it are really only familiar with a few spot- j
passages and 'hallowed phrases, and do I
not r.alise how large a proportion of the j
whole is imperfectly translated or actually j
unintelligible.”
The translators of the New Englishjj
Bible are a big team ot 36 ot the acknow-
ledged greatest British biblical scholars,
who, seeking accuracy in the light of
modern discoveries of ancient manu-
scripts and the like, and the vast
biblical scholarship devoted to these,],
have already been years longer at
their task than the Authorised Version
translators gave to theirs, and with
still a stretch of years to go before
their work is completed. The following
fragment of information on the making
of the current New Testament gives at
least a glimpse of men at work (the
translating panel first met in 1948 an(fl
were exactly ten years at their task):
Each member of the panel was invited 1
to prepare a draft translation ol a book
or group of books, and the draft was ■
circulated to the others. Ihe panel then j
met and discussed the draft verse by verse j
and sentence by sentence, until agreement a
was reached upon what best represented, •]
in current English, the meaning ol the
original. The literary advisers scrutinised ..
the work of the translators, and the final j
form of the version was reached by agree- |
ment between translating and liteiary j
panels.
Enough, finally, to add that there are
upwards of 400 pages of current English
of that clear and splendid quality to sejj
against the few bits and pieces pilloried
and pasted with ridicule in the present]
hullabaloo. With one further remark
perhaps worth making, that for this
present reader at least, the great Nevj
Testament scenes —there on the Mount,
in the Temple, on Galilee, the Lasl
Supper, the Trial, the Crucifixion, ail
come through with no lessening of power
—if anything, with a new, a vividly
living dramatic force.


The Way I Write
What You Learn in the Navy
By J. E. MACDONNELL
Continuing an Observer Series on Best-sellers
My friend Carter Brown (one can’t
help thinking of him by his
work-name) wrote in the Obser-
ver a few weeks back that his
favorite dream was sight of himself
at his orderly desk at nine, rising thence
at four, and walking from his still-
orderly study into an evening of righteous
relaxation. That, bless his dream, is the
way I write. To me the only odd thing
about it is that none of the writing frater-
nity can believe it.
Take the time factor. When for 14
years you have risen, washed, eaten,
dressed, fallen-in, worked, fallen-out,
eaten, undressed, gone to bed, all by the
bosun's pipe or bugle, then positioning
yourself at a desk at nine a.m. is a very
minor chore indeed. The only difference
to that other dream is that I finish about
one p.m.
The production factor. When for 14
years you've lived in fear, il not for
your life, then of promotion and leave-
stoppage, you fill a set quota of work
with automatic promptitude. I produce
3000 words a day for five in the week.
A small break from naval discipline here
—from writing experience one has
learned that no matter what the story is
doing, whether a ship is about to have
her guts ripped open by a torpedo or
whether the sailor is about to rip his
pants off, one ceases tapping at the end
of that tenth foolscap page. This leaves
the brain fresh for a continuance of the
battle at nine the next morning.
The orderliness factor. When for 14
years . . . But you've got the message.
My work goes straight on to the type-
writer. You can't muck about when the
contract demands a book a month, and
those pages go straight to the publisher.
1 cannot touch-type, and this visual
method of mine makes for few typo-
graphical errors.
Discipline enters again here ; training
of a different sort. Eight years on The
Bulletin, mainly writing paragraphs, and
being sub-edited ruthlessly and expertly,
makes for meaty writing, all fatty
excresences dissolved mentally before the
words reach paper. This saves all but
minor revision after the day’s quota,
and makes for presentably clean copy.
Tension doesn’t come into it to any
degree. The only dexadrine I've taken
was a few years back during an unsuc-
cessful effort to reduce my appetite and
an unsightly brewer’s goitre. Now I’m
on some other stuff.
No, not much tension in front of
the keyboard. Though sometimes one’s
memory needs jolting. In the naval and
medical novels currently in production
one does not have to be a stickler for
accuracy—one just must never be wrong.
Otherwise half a hundred specialists will
drop collectively upon one’s neck. You
can solve a crime any way you wish, you
-can have a hero making love 999 dif-
ferent ways, but when you talk about
the rate of fire of a multiple pom-pom
in a Fleet destroyer . . . !
The same absolute accuracy must
obtain for medical books. In this par-
ticular series I'm collaborating with a
brace of surgeons, but of course they
can't tell you everything. In one story
the hero was wounded in the neck. Acting
with commendable promptitude 1 placed
a tourniquet around the affected part.
1 expected that doctors would read this
series—if only to learn something—and
a few days after publication a sour voice
rang up and wanted to know:
“Did you write that tripe?”
“I wrote that particular book, yes.”
“Then here’s some medical information
for you. The only man who can success-
fully place a tourniquet around a human
neck is the hangman!”
Material has always been a problem.
Constable of London have published six
of my hardbacks, each of about 90,000
words, and Horwitz have put between
covers 31 pocket-books, and every one
of those books deals with the Navy.
There can be few ships of the British,
German or Japanese Navies which have
not been typewritered to the bottom
if I’ve missed any, I'd be most grateful
to hear about them and as it’s difficult
to write 45,000 words a month on the
wartime Navy without sinking some-
thing or other it looks as though my
acquaintance with dexadrine will be
shortly renewed.
In specialist writing on the Navy and
medicine an author needs more than his
characters and theme he needs to see
his future operators at work in their own
selective fields. So now and again, in
between surgical operations, 1 go to sea.
Watching the Navy at work is interest-
ing : seeing surgeons at theirs is unend-
ingly fascinating. One has to be most
circumspect, of course, and the per-
mission of operating surgeon and patient
is always meticulously sought. The list
of operations witnessed runs from leg
amputations always horrible —to re-
moval of toe-nails —almost unbearable —
and lung, heart, brain and obstetrical
surgery.
imagines that a theme “The Way
I Write” might include the how and
why of getting published. A man can be
lucky. Only for a Sydney publishing lirm
my hardbacks might still be printed in
Australia, instead of enjoying the larger
audience and experience offered by a
London house.
My first hardback was duly sent to
the Sydney firm. Three months later l
diffidently phoned the editor. “We like it,
but we're holding a directors' meeting
on it.” Thenceforth every month . . .
Never in the history of publishing, I'm
sure, have so many directors’ meetings
been held on one manuscript. Six months
after the first submission I got the thing
back and sent it to London. Seven
months later it was back here, between
covers. And Constable have printed them
ever since, with Dent and Collins handling
the boys' books.
My entry into the house of Horwitz
was lucky and unoriginal. A commercial
artist, my wife delivered some art-work
to them one day and was casually asked:
“Do you know anybody who writes sea
stories?” Not flattering to her already
hardbacked husband, but the first MS
went in a month later, and have con-
tinued more or less in that sequence.
Some have gone to New York, others
to Paris, and three are shortly to be
issued in Norway.
Editing, now. Luckily, through
Bulletin training, the quick-written soft-
covers have not needed much alteration.
But now and again some awful dissection
is performed. One case happened when
a hard-cover was being serialised in a
Sydney paper. In the book the destroyer
left Darwin and ran into very heavy
weather. But the serialised version was
“cut to fit,” and there you had the young
surgeon-lieutenant violently seasick with
the ship calmly at her buoy in Darwin
harbor.
Cliches —again through “Bully” train-
ing—have been anathema with me. Often
I've used a fresh, striking word or simile
(I thought) only to see when the thing's
published that an assiduous sub-editor
has inserted the cliche which 1 tried for
five minutes to avoid. But, I suppose,
these are minor points, trying only to an
author. Sub-editors will always be
with us.


PERSONAL
A Progression
of Neumanns
When Dr Bernhard and Dr Hanna
Neumann arrive at the Australian
National University in Canberra—where
he will be professor and she reader in
mathematics—it will be one more stage
on a long journey which began when
they met as students at Berlin University
in 1933. Although she was the daughter
of a Prussian historian and he the son
of a Jewish engineer, their views on
Hitler coincided: he fled almost imme-
diately to Cambridge, where he took his
Ph D., but she did not reach England
until 1938. There followed internment,
then service in the British Army in Ger-
many for him and constant study for
his wife, who joined Neumann as lecturer
at the University College, Hull, in 1946.
At the moment they are both in Man-
chester: he is reader in mathematics at
the University while she is senior
mathematics lecturer at the C ollege of
Science and Technology, and they are
renowned for their mathematical col-
laboration on group theory and abstract
algebra. They collaborate well in other
spheres also—they have five children, and
the sight of the seven Neumanns cycling
around Manchester looks a fine example
of arithmetical progression.
• •
Nasution for Canberra
Indonesian military commanders, who
have inevitably become associated
with the national struggle to achieve
political stability, have shown scant sym-
pathy with the aims of Indonesian Com-
munists. This is due largely to the power-
ful influence and personality of General
Abdul Haris Nasution, 42-year-old
Minister for Defence and the Army’s
Commander-in Chief, who is to visit
Australia next month for “official talks”
with Commonwealth Ministers and ser-
vice chiefs of staff.
Nasution has fought against rebels
and Dutch in his own country, and is
a key figure in the current strengthening
of Indonesian forces. Despite his dis-
like of Communism, he negotiated in
Moscow recently for the purchase of
large quantities of equipment, much of
which will reach Indonesia this year, to-
gether with experts to train Indonesian
troops and airmen. Indonesia acknow-
ledges no “strings” in its purchases of
arms from either Russia or the U.S.,
and Nasution’s obvious objective is to
build strength from available sources.
Nasution’s career epitomises that of
many of his generation. Born in
North Sumatra in 1918, he took a
teacher's diploma in Bandoeng, Java,
simultaneously entering the military
academy there in 1939. As a mili-
tary cadet he was one of the few
Indonesians permitted by the Dutch
(then still in the N.E.1.) to qualify for
a commission. He was a sub-lieutenant
when the Japanese invaded Java, but
his unit was not sent into action.
During the Japanese occupation he
became an instructor in a military col-
lege, and in this period met and became
friendly with Dr Soekarno, then seeking
to have all Indonesians taught the use
of arms to equip them for eventual re-
volt against a return of Dutch rule.
Nasution was appointed to the Indone-
sian Army with the rank of colonel soon
after the Indonesian declaration of in-
dependence in 1945, and assigned to
West Java —an area free from internal
rebellion until 1949.
From 1946-48, with the rank of major-
general, he was in command of that area,
in charge of the extensive and successful
guerrilla operations against the Dutch,
in the “bushfire” forces which resisted
the 1947 Dutch “police action.”
In 1948 he became second in com-
mand of the Indonesian Army, directly
responsible to the President, and was
again in action against the Dutch. From
1950-52 he was Chief of Staff of the
Army, and in 1955 was appointed Com-
mander-in-Chief.
He has visited Japan and other Asian
countries, and holds 11 Indonesian de-
corations, the Yugoslav Military Order, ■
Ist class, and Thai Order of the White
Elephant.
• •
Realist, Idealist
Tt is characteristic of the Melbourne
publishing firm F. W. Cheshire Pty
Ltd that during the recent dust-up about
whether or not “Lady Chatterley’s Lover”
should be banned, the firm’s governing
director, Mr F. W. Cheshire, wrote to
the “Age” demanding that the book be
banned, while its publishing director,
Dr Andrew Fabinyi, wrote another
letter demanding it be released. Charac-
teristic, because the firm has been setting
a standard in Australia over recent years
for civilised and liberal-minded books,
ranging from Robin Boyd’s “The Aus-
tralian Ugliness” last year to Henry
Mayer’s “The Catholic Church and the
Free Society” this year.
Andrew Fabinyi has been largely
responsible for the success of this policy,
and no other publisher has toured the
country so diligently hunting up good
manuscripts and contributing to every
aspect of the book trade. (He was twice
president of the Victorian Branch of the
Library Association of Australia and is
now president of the Australian Book
Fair Council.) He likes to describe his
firm’s policy as “realistically idealistic”
—by which he means that while he wants
to publish good books he also has to
see that everyone’s wages are paid every
Thursday. Cheshire’s pull this off by a
delicate balance of publishing and book-
selling. They have three bookshops in
Melbourne and one in Canberra.
Andrew Fabinyi came to Australia
shortly before the war from Europe,
where he had done his publishing appren-
ticeship in Budapest in a publishing house
called the Franklin Society (after Benja-
min Franklin). In Budapest he also did
his apprenticeship in anti - censorship
activities: he was once charged with
selling an art book which the police
deemed to be obscene. He got off on a
technicality.
• •
Into the Silence: —
In Melbourne, at 87, John William Gray, one
of the earliest of Victorian State school-
teachers. He began his career as a primary
schoolteacher in Vic.’s western district, later
went from Melbourne Continuation School to
be first headmaster of Geelong High School,
and a chief-inspector of schools.
In Melbourne, at 83, Richard Singer, former
New Zealand barrister and authority on famous
trials.
In Adelaide, at 78, M. J. Noonan, a former
president of both the South Australian and
Federal branches of the U.L.V.A., who had
been associated with the hotel trade in S.A. for
more than fifty years.
In Melbourne, at 67, Arthur I. Upton, World
War I veteran and a life member of the R.S.L.
In Sydney, at 72, Cecil Joseph Chuck, retired
police-sergeant who was 36 years with the
N. S. Wales force. Australia’s most publicised
policeman in the 1920’s and 1930’5, he became
famous for the many disguises he used in the
fight against sly-grog trading and s.-p. betting.


This Australia
Design for Intimidation
New South Wales Sunday newspapers
recently carried headlines such as
“SYDNEY MAN AS WAR CRIMI-
NAL” and “NAZI WAR CRIMINAL
CHARGE.” The papers announced the
lodging of an extradition demand by
the Soviet Government with the Austra-
lian Embassy in Moscow for an Estonian
migrant who lives in Sydney. They also
reprinted in full the accusations made by
the Soviet Government, as well as the
man’s name and present address. It was
no fault of the newspapers that they
reported news —but the news had been
loaded by the Russians. The charges
levelled against this naturalised Estonian
were that he had personally taken part
in the shooting of Soviet citizens in
July, 1941, in the Tartu area, where
12,000 people had been shot in an anti-
tank ditch. The Australian Government
has refused to extradite the man.
Representatives of the 3000 Estonians
in N.S.W. and the United Council of
Migrants from Communist - dominated
Europe have defended the so-called Nazi.
There are 300 to 400 former inhabitants
of Tartu in N.S.W., and not one has
agreed with the Soviet accusation. And
political refugees in Australia are
screened, first by Australian Security
officers, and often by their British
counterparts, who have access to German
official files and secret documents cap-
tured by the Western Allies.
The announcement of “war crimes”
appears to have been designed by the
Russians to coincide with Estonian
Independence Day on February 24. In
most oppressed nations, these are the
days on which yearnings for freedom are
strongest —so some way of offsetting any
possible “counter-revolutionary” thoughts
or demonstrations must be found (if they
are possible since the Hungarian revolu-
tion was crushed.)
The charges against the Estonian seem
to be part of a world-wide campaign
against nationalists in exile in the free
world. In 1952-56 it was the Polish
people’s turn to be besieged with propa-
ganda to “return home.” Today it is the
Estonians’. The first Estonian to be
charged was a Mr Talvar in Sweden early
last year who was accused of killing 1400
people during the Nazi regime. The
second was a Mr Mere living in England
who w'as recently condemned to death
“in absentia” —again for supposedly being
responsible for Nazi atrocities during the
war. In the middle of last year a Mr
Alex Laak in Canada was similarly
accused. He found the pressure too much
and hanged himself in Winnipeg after
“Tass,” the Russian newsagency. said
he was a former concentration camp
commander.
Two months later a Toronto Estonian,
Axel Luitsalu, was accused, again
through “Tass,” of being a former Nazi,
“whose hands are drenched in the blood
rof thousands of brutally murdered
civilians." Mr Luitsalu, with the help of
Mr Diefenbaker, the Canadian Prime
Minister, sued “Tass" for libel. The news
bureau denied responsibility and said
they had picked it up from “Rakvia Haal"
(People's Voice), the organ of the Com-
munist puppet Government in Estonia.
Mr Luitsalu had to drop his legal action
as his costs were becoming astronomical.
So the Sydney case seems to be only
part of a general pattern. Estonians are
among the most anti-Communist people
of the world. And the charges may be
part of a general campaign designed to
intimidate into silence people who have
lived under Communist Governments.
End of a
Monopoly?
'T'he near-monopoly over Melbourne
beer supplies which Carlton and
United Breweries Ltd has enjoyed for
many years may soon be challenged by
a combination of publicans and a British
brewing company. Last Sunday about
200 Victorian hotel licensees and licensed
grocers voted in unanimous support of a
plan which would bring the London
brewers, Charrington and Company Ltd,
into Melbourne to build a new brewery
at a cost of £3.5 million.
Like hardened conspirators, the hotel-
keepers met behind closed doors guarded
by several commissionaires. Admission
was by special invitation, but, as the
publicans feared, there were “brewery
spies’’ around. Three representatives of
Carlton and United had posted themselves
outside the St. Kilda Road Nurses' Memo-
rial Centre, where the meeting was held,
and scrutinised those who attended.
The move to get Charringtons to enter
the Victorian beer trade is the culmina-
tion of many years of friction between
publicans and Carlton and United over
profit margins. The quarrel came into
the open last year when some publicans
announced they would raise their beer
prices Carlton and United soon crushed
the movement by threatening to cut off
supplies to hotels departing from its price
policy. Recently some hotels said they
would boycott the brewery’s new 260 z.
cans because of insufficient profit margin,
but this move also fizzled out.
The man behind the scheme to bring
in the £37 million British company is
hotel broker Noel Grave, who has been
quietly negotiating with Charringtons for
some time. He has made two trips to
London and recently revealed that Char-
ringtons’ senior brewer, chemist and past
chairman had spent several weeks in Mel-
bourne discreetly studying the local beer
and drinking conditions. A sample sur-
vey of 500 of Victoria’s 1200 untied
hotels had shown that some 400 were
willing to back his plan. Meanwhile an
option was secured over 100 acres of land
at Springvale and the State Government
acquainted of the scheme.
Victorian beer production runs to
about 72 million gallons a year, of which
Carlton and United produce over 90 per
cent. Charringtons are prepared to
build a brewery and have it operating by
the end of 1962, provided they are assured
of outlets for at least eight million gallons
a year: they regard this as the minimum
figure at which operation of the proposed
brewery would be economic.
Mr Grave is confident that he can
arrange this. At Sunday's meeting he
distributed contract forms which he asked
the publicans to sign and return to him.
The contract provides that the publican
will switch to Charrington beer for a
period of five years and also contains
space for a statement of his purchases of
beer for the last financial year. When
contracts indicating total purchases of
eight million gallons have been received,
Charringtons’ chairman will fly to Mel-
bourne to take the project further.
Mr Grave thinks that signatures
from 130 hotel-keepers will give him
the needed gallonage: he is already
assured of contracts totalling 3,500,000
gallons. He has asked that the contracts
be in his hands by Easter Tuesday.
Charringtons, in its turn, undertakes to
provide beer at 10 per cent, less than
prevailing wholesale prices. I his margin
would go to the publicans, since it is not
proposed to undercut Carlton and
United’s retail prices.
Carlton, needless to say, has no inten-
tion of letting any rival in without a fight.
On the eve of the meeting convened by
Mr Grave it distributed a circular to
the trade which hit off with a reference
to “the as yet unsampled beer" of the
newcomer, before warning that it was
a product “of which neither you nor
your customers can have any experience
or knowledge.’’ It pointed to the high
excise component in beer prices (£8 7s. 2d.
in a kilderkin costing the publicans
£lO 16s. 3d.) and argued that this left no
room for reduction in wholesale prices.
It complained that “the original sponsors
of the scheme are those who for some
years past have been endeavoring to
enforce higher retail prices on the
public.’’
Mr Grave replied to the circular at
the Sunday meeting. He claimed that
Charringtons would produce bottled and
draught beers which would be almost
identical to those which Victorians
liked. Eventually a range of ales, lagers
and pilsners would be produced to give
drinkers a choice. With an eye on the
spies outside the building, he promised
complete secrecy for publicans who


elected to switch their brew. He also
told the meeting that the Victorian Gov-
ernment has assured him in writing that
it would take steps to rectify any “vic-
timisation” of licensees for supporting
the new venture.
“Yours is an unhappy industry,” Mr
Grave told his audience, “and none know
it better than yourselves. Many of you
have been reduced to managers of a
declining business, working long hours
for a bare working wage at the risk of
considerable capital investment.”
Nevertheless, the publicans will be
expected to find more capital before they
can be rescued from their plight. Th®
proposed structure of the company to
operate the new brewery provides for
£1.5 million from Charringtons, £600,000
from publicans and the balance of £1.4
million to be raised by a public issue of
shares and debentures. Despite the dif-
ference in equities, Charringtons and the
publicans are to have equal representa-
tion on the directorate under an inde-
pendent chairman.
Meanwhile, Carlton must be wishing
that there was some way of copyright-
ing the flavor which its rival is so certain
it can imitate.
Strike Above Job Level
If last week’s four-hour stoppage in
Queensland is any guide, Queens-
landers are in for a new look in strikes.
Unions called the stoppage in protest
against the State Government's Industrial
Conciliation and Arbitration Court
amendments. The union leaders plan
was to make the State aware of the
“workers' opposition” by paralysing
industry from 8 a.m.-12 noon. Ihe pro-
visions in the new Bill had been described
as “the most repressive in Australia” and
“a breach of the 1.L.0. Convention on
freedom of trade-union organisation.
Whether these assertions are true or
not, most of the “workers” in Queens-
land remained unmoved by them. Esti-
mates of the numbers on strike vary ; but
some people say less than half ot the
200,000 members of the 27 unions in-
volved went out. Mr L. A. Suggars,
Queensland Chamber of Manufactures
president, said: “Production was not
seriously affected. The quicker the whole
thing is given a decent interment the
better.”
Even the metal trades industry em-
ployees, renowned for their willingness
to strike on any question, were half-
hearted. A spokesman for the Metal
Trades Employers Federation said that
50 per cent, of the State’s heavy and light
engineering plants had been unaffected,
25 per cent, had been partly affected and
the remaining 25 per cent, had been
stranded with only ironworkers and
apprentices to keep the plant running.
Vehicle builders rebuffed their leaders at
car-assembly works and stayed in ; mem-
bers of the Transport Union were divided
—some drove, some did not; power-
house employees kept working.
The union leaders had better luck with
trams, buses and trains: they all stopped.
Apart from inconveniencing travellers,
this sweet smell of success blew back on
them: only 4000 strikers were able to
attend a meeting at Brisbane’s Exhibition
oval. The rest were either too apathetic
to listen to the rouse-up speeches of their
leaders or they were at work.
The unions which did not support the
stoppage, including the large A.W.U. and
the Ironworkers, claim that the agitators
pulled a “confidence trick.” The decision
to strike was not made by the Trades
and Labor Council, but was decided at
a special Sunday-morning meeting. The
angry unions say that no mention of a
stoppage was made in the invitations
announcing the meeting. Many of them,
it is claimed, stayed away because they
thought the meeting would only discuss
a protest against the new Bill.
In Mount Isa (population, 11,000) the
strike was more successful. Everyone
went out —not for four hours but for 24.
The 3000 mine employees could not even
have a drink during their day-off—the
bar attendants had also gone out.
Though the A.W.U. instructed its mem-
bers not to participate in the stoppage,
they ignored their leaders. The A.W.U.
Northern District secretary (Mr K. Cos-
tello) made a last-minute attempt to dis-
suade his members from defying their
executive, but he got an extremely rowdy
reception from his defiant members.
Allegations have been made that the
Trades and Labor Council Communist
secretary, Mr A. Macdonald, had sent a
man up to Mt Isa to undermine the
A.W.U. by agitating among the members
to ignore the “non-militant leadership.”
Apparently this was successful even
though the stoppage was an overall
failure.
The whole episode is likely to touch
off a revolt which has been simmering
in the Trades and Labor Council for
the last few years. It seems as though
trade-union leaders are not the only ones
dissatisfied with the “militant” leadership
of the council ; judging from the lack
of support for the protest stoppage, so
are Queensland’s workers. Even the presi-
dent of the Trades and Labor Council
said the strike was too hastily organised.
Then, slipping into Communist jargon, he
added: “It was not brought down to job
level.”
S.P. Operators
Bow Out
There was a typographical error in a
newspaper in the starting price of a
winner at the Melbourne trots. Next day,
before a correction could be made, there
were three telephone calls from readers
querying the error.
At the height of s.-p. betting in Mel-
bourne, the newspapers’ telephone boards
would have been jammed with inquiries,
but s.-p. has suffered from the police
squeeze, belated though it was. Now the
starting-price bookmakers confine them-
selves to 100 or so clients they know well
personally and by whom they expect to
be supported almost in the style to which
they are accustomed.
Many of the men who used to
operate s.-p. betting networks with the
unofficial blessing of the P.M.G. Depart-
ment and the police gaming branch have
now retired to Surfers’ Paradise and their
first-class provincial hotels. They bowed
out when the Premier and the chairman
of the V.R.C. put their heads together
to bring in the off-course tote. Their
withdrawal was hurried by a reconstituted
gaming branch of selected men.
Their wealth was unavailing against
this new gaming branch. They still had
powerful friends who in turn were able
to sway other influential persons, but,
despite all their efforts, tne off-course
tote has arrived in Victoria, obviously,
to stay.
The same quarters which were claiming
that licensed s.-p. bookmakers would be
preferable to a licensed off-course tote
are now reduced to finding faults in the
operating rules of the tote. Some of these
are legitimate, as may be expected in
the inauguration of such a complex
business in which timing and accuracy
are the first essentials. j
The tote began without an official
opening, although it could, of course,
have achieved national attention if, say,,
the Dean of Brisbane, the Very Rev.
W. P. Baddeley, had been asked to make
the first wager.
It has been operating smoothly and
efficiently. None of the unpleasantness]
forecast by N.S.W. wowsers who don’t
want the machine is evident. There is
no increase in teenage betting; there
are conspicuous notices that bets will
not be accepted from those under 21 ; 1
there are no gangsters; even loitering
on the premises is discouraged by the
lack of comfort. Big interests did not
make money buying premises in advance ; 1
only small lock-up shops have been i
bought at the market price.
Some of the factors which have in-
fluenced Victorians to patronise the off-
course tote if they are not going to the
races have been Judge Fraser’s campaign
against hotels and clubs which harbor
s.-p. bookmakers; new legislation in-
creasing s.-p. penalties ; and the decision
of the High Court which declined to inter-
vene in a case in which a punter was
fined £250 for betting with an s.-p. book-
maker. A magistrate and judge had held
that the punter had aided and abetted
the bookmaker by betting with him.
On one day of the V.R.C. Autumn
meeting, the off-course tote, operating in
eight small communities only, handled
almost half as much as the total win-and-
place tote betting on the course.
The tote’s potential when it has a
branch or agency within convenient reach
of all Victorians is quite remarkable;
and the days of the s.-p. merchant
throughout Australia must be numbered
as the Victorian Turf shows what can
be done.


Keeping S.A.
On Rails
South Australia’s Premier, Sir
Thomas Playford, has long had a
reputation for being the most radical
Liberal leader in Australia. In keeping
his party in office for 23 unbroken years
he has often gone off the party line.
Now he has put himself offside once
more by trying to keep his State on the
line —the standard-gauge railway line.
Acting Prime Minister McEwen dis-
posed last Wednesday that Sir Thomas
had been reckless enough to issue a writ
against the Commonwealth demanding
Tat it keep its ten-year-old promise to
finance a 4ft Bin. railway line between
Broken Hill and Port Pirie. This is one
>f S.A.’s major revenue-earners: it
carries a tremendous weight of lead and
fine concentrates from the western
M.S.W. mining city to Port Pirie smelters
md shipping.
To the man in the street it may seem
)f little importance whether this decrepit,
larrow-gauge line is replaced or not. But
isk any of the fettlers who were called
>ut in llOdeg. temperatures during the
leatwave last January and February to
■epair the line after several derailments,
>r the directors of Broken Hill Associated
imelters in Port Pirie, who found their
jroduetion schedules thrown out of gear.
The S.A. Government has been waiting
or action since 1949, when an agreement
vas made between Federal and State
jovernments to improve this line, and —
or party reasons —was happy to wait.
Vhat touched off the present defiant note
vas Playford’s fear that the Common-
vealth would give priority to other
aiiway developments in W.A. the
trengthening of the line from Kalgoorlie
o Kwinana on the Indian Ocean, where
he B.H.P. plans to build a new steel-
naking plant by 1968.
Sir Thomas may well see this as some
orm of treachery, for the B.H.P. has
litherto been one of S.A.’s most generous
•atrons through its big expansion plans
n blast-furnaces and shipbuilding at
Vhyalla. Opposition-leader Calwell im-
nediately threw a spanner in this political
aachinery by announcing that, were
-abor in power, both projects would
ave gone ahead together (with whose
loney he did not say).
But Playford’s writ-happy attitude —
is last was over the use of Murray
waters from the Snowy may cause
torse trouble. He has reminded the
Commonwealth of a much more overdue
Tomise. Only historians will remember
fis one.
Back in 1910, S.A. gave up trying to
in the Northern Territory for lack of
nance, but when handing over to the
ommonwealth it secured a promise that
Adelaide would be linked with Darwin
by a railway line. In those days the N.T.
was a liability in anybody’s money. It
is not so today. S.A. resents the way
Northern Territory beef goes to Queens-
land and N.S.W. Even Victoria can
supply big mining projects like Mount
Isa and Mary Kathleen, and only costly
road transport takes S.A. goods north
of Alice Springs because the rail link,
proposed half a century ago, between the
Alice and Birdum has never been built
by the Commonwealth.
Economists may argue about the losses
such a railway would incur, but Sir
Thomas is standing firm. A promise made
in 1910 and reaffirmed in 1923 is sacro-
sanct today—however much conditions
may have changed and costs multiplied.
The High Court may reject the present
litigation as being merely a matter for
the Executive, but once more a provincial
David has cast his stone at the Federal
Goliath—and unemployment, especially
in the motor industry, is worse in S.A.
than in other States.
A Patient’s Testimony
Tn a little village in the French Alps
A called Aromas, a problem of elec-
toral franchise has arisen.
Situated in the province of Jura, a
cheese and wine district, Aromas has
a population of 309, made up of 148
ordinary villagers and 161 patients and
staff of the Sacred Heart Mental
Asylum, run by Franciscan Sisters.
In the cause of extending the asylum
grounds, the sisters decided to make
use of a French law which gives
inmates of mental asylums the right
to vote in municipal elections. Vir-
tually overnight a hitherto politically
apathetic section of the community
became a dominant electoral pressure
group, and the town mayor was
deposed. With rumor whispering that
the asylum planned to put up its own
candidates for the council, and the
deposed mayor screaming, “The mad
women are out to take over,” an
emergency meeting has been proposed
to discuss rearranging the electoral
boundaries to the asylum's disadvan-
tage. The pious Mother Superior of
the institution finds the whole furore
rather incomprehensible: “We tell
the women how to vote. Why not?
We receive our instructions from
God!”
Sydney has its own contribution to
offer to the growing puzzle of the
relation of the mentally sick to the
rest of the community. A Royal
Commission of Inquiry into conditions
at the Callan Park mental hospital is
running into some perilously un-
charted territory as it tries to sort out
the welter of conflicting evidence,
some of it tendered by mental patients,
before it.
The Commissioner, Mr Justice
McClemens, has already had occasion
to remark, concerning the allegations
of cruelty and stealing, that he has
never experienced a case where it has
been more necessary to withhold
judgment until all the facts are
gathered. His comments followed the
“evidence” of a former patient at
Callan Park who made the most start-
ling and spectacular allegations of
brutality at the hospital.
The ex-patient, referred to during
his appearance as “Mr Donald,”
volunteered to testify through Mr L.
Kemp, counsel for Callan Park's
Medical Superintendent, Dr H. R.
Bailey. Giving his evidence-in-chief
“Mr Donald” was calm, confident and
studiously controlled as he told of
punchings, kickings and degradations
administered by the hospital staff to
himself and other patients. He was
most precise in identifying the people
against whom he made the allegations,
and the times and places relevant to
each incident. His most serious
accusation was directed against one
Callan Park doctor who, he claimed,
had continued to insist on his receiving
the tranquiliser drug, Largactyl, even
though the doctor knew that “Mr
Donald” was allergic to it and became
“virtually a raving lunatic” when it
was administered to him.
But when “Mr Donald” was
scheduled for cross - examination he
failed to appear. Mr J. Davoren,
Q.C. (assisting the Commissioner),
announced that the witness had in-
formed his counsel, Mr W. Nicol, that
he did not wish to give evidence.
Later his Honor received a telegram
from “Mr Donald”: “Sir, Regret
unable to appear as requested. Letter
in post will provide full explanation.”
Soon after, a subpoena was served on
the reluctant witness, and he once
more entered the box.
Immediately he objected strongly to
being called “Mr Donald” by the
Commissioner and insisted (success-
fully) on being referred to by his
Christian name of plain “Donald.”
He then refused to answer any ques-
tions put to him by Mr Davoren, with
whom he had clashed in his earlier
testimony ; and he subsequently
refused to answer questions put to him
by any of the counsel unless they
identified the parties they represented.
As “Mr Donald” began to empty
the contents of his pockets onto the
bench, Mr Justice McClemens dis-
charged him from giving further
evidence and said that he would not
regard his statements as being “in the
slightest degree” evidence against any
person he had named.
Later in the inquiry, after hearing
allegations against the Callan Park
staff from other mental patients, his
Honor said that the problems of pre-
senting such evidence was causing him
much worry because the background
of the witnesses was in departmental
files which were not available for
publication.


POLITICAL POINTS
HThe Chinese have outsmarted us all.
A We were all busy arguing about
whether we should sell our wheat to
China: Sir John Teasdale thought that
business and politics did not mix ; Mr
Bill Wentworth said be careful ; the
Melbourne Association of Human
Rights thought that the famine was
mainly man-made ; the Communist
party found proof in the deal of the
superiority of the Socialist system.
Everyone agreed, including Mr Santa-
maria and President Kennedy, that
the Chinese needed the wheat. Every-
one that is—except the Chinese. With
typical blandness they have sent
200,000 tons of wheat to Russia in
settlement of debts. The ships
chartered for the wheat were hired on
a time-charter basis, which means that
the Chinese need tell no one where the
£4.946,666 worth (the amount diverted
to Russia) of wheat was going. Any-
way, the wheat is going to Russia
either direct by ship or it will be railed
overland from Chinese ports.
China paid for the January ship-
ment in cash, and predictions were
made at the time that she would be
looking for more in March. But so
far no more sales have been made.
Why? Because China is asking Mr
C. J. Perrett, general manager of the
Australian Wheat Board, now in Hong
Kong, for credit. Sir John Teasdale
managed to quieten some of the Wheat
Board's critics in January by pointing
out that China was paying cash. What
does he say now? And what line will
the Australian Communist Party run
when it discovers how China is going
to pay for the wheat? The Chinese
are building up their dollar reserves in
Hong Kong banks by imposing heavier
duties on food parcels going through
there to feed her people.
• •
Ah touch of Chinese blandness was
also shown by Mr Henry Bolte
when he sacked Mr Rees Williams as
a Commissioner of the State Savings
Bank. Without turning a hair Bolte
said the appointment of Mr Williams
was “political.” Commissioners receive
£9OO a year for meeting once a week
and having “other duties.” As one
member said, “The job is really very
remunerative.” The appointment in
1947 may have been political ; but
even though Mr Williams was a rela-
tive of a former Labor Minister of
the day he has had over 20 years’
service with the bank and he is a
graduate in Commerce. But Mr Bolte
soon showed his attitude to “political
appointments”: he has appointed
Professor Cochrane, Professor of Eco-
nomics at the new Monash University.
The Professor is quite divorced from
politics; he was a member of Sir
Norman Martin’s committee which
investigated th; salaries of State
Parliamentarians and which success-
fully recommended substantial in-
creases.
• •
Timings are not going well for the
* Country-party in Western Aus-
tralia, the first State to launch a
“farmers’ party” back in 1914. In
a report by Royal Commissioner W.
J. Wallwork into bribery allegations,
the Country and Democratic League
(Country party) is said to have re-
ceived a donation of £2OO from the
Premises Bookmakers' Association
through Mr E. P. Oldfield, M.L.A.
The P.B.A.’s confidential committee
accounts, examined by the Royal
Commissioner, revealed an entry,
“Contribution to Country party in
connection with Central Province elec-
tion. Legislative Council.” The dis-
bursement was supported by an
audited receipt for £2OO signed by “E.
P. Oldfield.” The P.B.A. president,
Mr R. Z. Humphrys, said: “We
wanted to defeat the Liberal party
candidate in that electorate because
the Liberal party was opposed to us.”
Mr. Oldfield said he handed over the
£2OO to a leading Country party
official. He added: “I am satisfied
that the person to whom I gave the
money used it on behalf of the Coun-
try party in the Central Province.”
Despite the overwhelming evidence,
the Country party denies all knowledge
of the money ; but Mr Oldfield says
that if they do not come clean he
will disclose the name of the official
to whom he gave the money. .One
reason why no one pays much atten-
tion to the Country party these days
is that we are all too busy discussing
the A.L.P. split.
• •
Mr Calwell is suffering from the
same inability to cash in on Parlia-
mentary performance that afflicts Hugh
Gaitskell in England. He can't score
points either from attacking the Gov-
ernment or praising it. The Labor
Opposition’s vote of no-confidence in
the Government was a dismal failure.
It was a failure not because the Gov-
ernment did not have a case to answer
but because nobody on the Labor side
either asked the right questions or
offered any alternative policy. Here
was the Government in its most vul-
nerable position for years, with plenty
of people ready to give publicity to
coherent attacks. Mr Calwell should
have been able to rely on Labor’s two
economists, Dr Cairns and Mr Crean,
but they did little to help him bolster
up Labor prestige. The only two
people to offer any relevant criticism
of the Government’s policy were Mr
Ward and a Liberal backbencher, Mr
J. Murray.
In agreeing with the Government,
Mr Calwell also seems to miss out.
In the middle of the poor showing
Labor put up on the no-confidence
debate, along came the South African
shock. Amidst Government “Hear
Hears” he made a patriotic little speech
agreeing with Mr McEwen about the
regrettability of South Africa leaving
the Commonwealth—but Dr Cairns
and Mr Ward were interjecting on the
other side. Too much of Mr Calwell's
energy is diverted into maintaining
neutralism in the internal affairs of
the Labor party, and toeing the line
laid down by Mr Chamberlain and the
Victorian executive. If Mr Calwell
spoke out for once and said what he
thought he might do better. But then
he might lost his pre-selection.
© ©
Mr Arthur Rylah, the Victorian
Attorney-General, could take an-
other look at the “vice” situation.
At the time when he was explain-
ing his latest Sunday-school legisla-
tion against the New Australians, John
Galbally, Leader of the Opposition,
was on his feet in the Legislative
Council with some remarkable alle-
gations. Policewomen were disguising
themselves as prostitutes to trap men
into accosting them ; prostitutes were
being paid by the police to take men,
particularly New Australians, to pre-
arranged places later raided by the
police, and police were going into es-
presso bars and roughly handling New
Australians.
There is no doubt there is a piquant
fellowship between some members of
the Victorian Police Force and some
well-known prostitutes. It has even
been alleged that it was pressure by
prostitutes on the police that made
them turn their attention on espresso
bars because the prostitutes claimed
that espresso-bar girls were taking
their trade, at cheap prices, in sexual
accommodation.
Vague allegations about 13- and
14-year-old girls being used by New
Australian masters were then made,
coupled as might be expected with
complaints that the vice-squad could
not be expected to cope with this vast
trade as they were so under-manned.
The 13- and 14-year-olds were never
produced ; and the one girl who was
brought forward was some years older
and has since admitted telling lies to
a TV-panel.
BY MUGGA


[?]VERSEAS
[?]ennedy and the
Nuclear Test Ban
By TRISTRAM COFFIN
■nnedy’s combination of zest, intellec-
tual curiosity, sense of history, political
icity and cool mind is being directed
wo main goals: restoring the nation’s
lomic vigor and making the world
r. On the first, Congress is beginning
espond with a near enthusiasm, and
e are faint signs that business is
ting to the psychological glow' from
ihington.
t his recent press conference, Presi-
Kennedy spelled out with more
ision than before his thinking on the
md goal. He said: “I w ould not
mpt to make a judgment on what
future relations [with Russia] are
ig to be. I am hopeful that we can
k out a relationship which will permit
to live in peace and maintain our
rity and the security of those coun-
with which we are allied.
Ae want to proceed with arms con-
leading to disarmament, but of
■se, this complete disarmament in four
s is a goal which has been talked
it a great many years. I am some-
t familiar with the conversations
:h took place in Geneva under much
strained conditions from 1928 to 1929
1933-34. It is extremely difficult to
h satisfactory agreements on dis-
ament. At that time, the world was
divided as sharply as it is today, and
rather limited progress was made.”
ennedy has put primary emphasis on
ielear ban. It is a clear-cut test of
et intentions and flexibility. The
ted States, Britain and Russia are
; enough on both a professed over-all
re to end nuclear tests and the tech-
ies for inspection to reach an agree-
t if the atmosphere is right. The
ident, with his remarkable interest in
5, has looked through the volumes
official negotiations in Geneva and
;d at length with scientists, experts on
da and diplomats. He has reached
general conclusions:
\ nuclear test ban is desirable and
America's self-interest. The Eisen-
er Administration never made up its
1 Every time Eisenhower’s science
sors persuaded him the ban was
•able, Admiral Lewis Strauss, former
irman of the Atomic Energy Corn-
ion, rushed in and unsold him.
\ completely fool - proof inspection
:m is highly improbable. There
tys will be a margin of uncertainty,
use of new techniques.
’he peril of continuing without a test
of letting the nuclear arms race get
of hand, outweighs the slim possi-
/ of cheating by a nation in a highly
Herblock “The Washington Post
“ LISTEN, WHEN I GET THROUGH
WITH IT, IT WON’T BE WORTH
BELONGING TO."
sophisticated stage of nuclear develop-
ment. That is, the great danger of a
nuclear holocaust is not from Soviet
Russia but from nations a few years
away from the nuclear club, such as
Communist China.
# The Soviet Union is quite earnest in
wanting an agreement and is willing to
make concessions. This is the view of
Ambassador to Russia Llewellyn E.
Thompson, British Minister of State
David Ormsby-Gore, who is now in
Washington for nuclear test ban talks,
and Kennedy's science advisors. The chief
of these advisors, Dr Jerome B. Wiesner,
says the Washington “Post,” “Favors
arms control (including a nuclear test
ban) and believes the technical problems
are not insuperable.” Louis Sohn, one of
the American scientists who attended the
Sixth International Conference of
Scientists in Moscow last December with
Wiesner, states as a major impression
that “the Russians are more flexible in
their attitude toward disarmament and
controls than is generally understood.”
# The United States and Britain will sit
down at Geneva hopeful of getting an
agreement signed by early summer, so
that the President can present it to the
Senate before it goes home. The tactics
at the bargaining table are reported by
Joseph Alsop in these words: “A test
ban not supported by a serious inspection
system is to be rejected out of hand.
Improvements in the inspection system
already agreed on with the Soviets are
now to be sought in the light of recent
scientific developments. But within these
limits, if the Soviets are really ready to
negotiate in earnest about a test ban, then
we are also ready to do so.”
© A very high hurdle, perhaps the worst,
will be the U.S. Senate. A two-thirds
majority must be piled up to ratify a
treaty, and this has often thrown a deep
and tragic shadow over foreign policy.
Last year, with almost no public con-
troversy and with all the weight of the
Eisenhower Administration behind it, the
Antarctic Treaty had but eight votes to
spare. Under this treaty, the U.S. agrees
to share the huge ice mass of the
Antarctic with other nations, including
Russia. The 21 “no" votes were made
up of the Right wing of the G.O.P.
(Styles Bridges of New Hampshire, John
Butler of Maryland, Carl Curtis of
Nebraska and Barry Goldwater of
Arizona t, six Democratic members of
the Armed Services Committee led by its
( hairman, Georgia's Richard Russell, and
nine other Democrats strongly influenced
by Russell and Virginia's Harry Byrd,
Connecticut's Thomas Dodd and New
Mexico’s Clinton Anderson.
The Senate, by its very nature, is
basically isolationist. Senators, especially
that one-third lacing election next year,
are frantically concerned by the mood,
short-term interests and prejudices of
their own voters. The Southerners have
been traditionally internationalist because
ot the world market for Dixie cotton.
When this market dissolved, so did the
world-minded ness of Southern Senators.
Walter George, the patriarchal chairman
of the Senate Foreign Relations Com-
mittee, discovered to his dismay that his
leadership in world affairs was no longer
a boon in Georgia, and was forced out
by Herman Talmadge, who voted against
the Antarctic Treaty.
1 here is conflicting evidence on how
aware the Kremlin is of the power of
the Senate. Hubert Humphrey believed
he made some headway in his marathon
talk with Khrushchev. Yet a few weeks
ago, at an East-West round table, the
two Soviet delegates became publicly
outraged when former Representative
Charles O. Porter tried to lecture them
on the role of the Senate in foreign policy
and the politics of ethnic groups. The
lesson may have been well taken, how-
ever, for within the past ten days or so
Soviet diplomats in Washington have
been discreetly questioning acquaintances
among correspondents and diplomats
about the power of the Senate.
The President would like to head off
any attempt to form a conservative
Republican-Southern Democrat coalition
or Republican policy against a treaty.
He needs the votes of men like Bourke
Hickenlooper of lowa on the Republican
side and Russell. This may well be part
of the reason why he has asked Congress


to restore the five stars to Dwight Eisen-
hower, wh> he has sedulously courted
such men as Byrd and Senator John
McClellan, and why he named Republi-
can banker John McCloy his assistant on
disarmament.
If a treaty is negotiated in Geneva,
Washington is going to see some of the
fanciest political skill and manoeuvring
in history. For never before has a Presi-
dent understood so keenly the men on
The Hill and why they act as they do.
And never, also, have the stakes been so
high.
How to Wreck Democracy
By A. V. SHERMAN
Tr has been said that if Hitler's “Mein
A Kampf’ had been widely read out-
side of Germany as well as inside at the
right time, many of Europe’s subsequent
sufferings might have been prevented.
It is no less true that if only what Com-
munists write for internal party con-
sumption were more widely read in
Western and uncommitted countries there
would be far fewer illusions and less
complacency.
Jan Kozak's booklet* is valuable, not
so much for any new facts adduced,
as for the insight it gives us into how
Communists envisage for themselves the
process of subversion of parliamentary
democracy nowadays. It is written in
what you might call plain jargon: once
you learn that “Socialist'' means C om-
munist; “fortifying the power of the
working class” means strengthening the
dictatorship of the party; “counter-
revolutionary machinations of the
bourgeoisie” means attempts to maintain
parliamentary democracy, it becomes
straightforward reading.
The writer makes it clear that he is
not addressing his homilies primarily to
Czech Communists, whose experiences he
is analysing, but intends the study to be
an “unusually valuable and instructive
contribution to the international workers
movement . . . for accelerating the march
of the world proletarian revolution.”
Since a good deal of the study deals
with methods and timing of tactical
alliances and temporary collaboration
with non-Communist groups, with the
aim of splitting, neutralising, and Anally
suppressing them, it is only fair that
prospective collaborators - cum - victims
should learn the rules of the game too.
The main thesis of the study is that
Communists must join in government
coalitions, and then combine “pressure
from above” with “pressure from below
in order to destroy their adversaries one
by one. They must employ the greatest
tactical flexibility “without losing sight
for one single moment of the aims of a
complete Socialist [i.e., Communist] over-
throw.” The writer adds, quite validly,
that under present-day conditions, where
the Communist bloc already accounts for
a substantial fraction of the world popula-
tion, the existing balance of power makes
conditions more propitious for such
action than it would have been before the
Second World War.
To exert “pressure from above” it is
essential for Communists to join in a
Government coalition, on the best terms
“How Parliament Can Play a Revolutionary Part
in the Transition to Socialism and the Role of the
Popular Masses” by Jan Kozak. English trans-
lation, published by Independent Information Centre,
London, 1961.
they can manage. In the case of Czecho-
slovakia the author points out the special
importance played by Communist con-
trol of the Ministry of the Interior and
“roving commissions” of the Ministry of
Agriculture, “special food commissions.”
“Those components of the State and
executive organs controlled by Commu-
nists in this way became unusually effec-
tive levers for . . . further advancement
of the revolution. They enabled direct
suppression of bourgeois counter-
revolutionary elements . . . isolation of
the bourgeoisie.”
Pressure from above was also exercised
by “utilisation of economic and politics;
power positions, especially nationaliset
banks, key industries.” “Communist
made use of these organs for shari
criticism levelled against the other partie
and their representatives.”
The main purpose of “pressure fron
below” was to support action by Com
munists in the Government and organ
of power “enhancing their strength am
compensating for their numerical weak
ness . . . limiting the influence of waverei
and enemies who stood in the way o
further progress of the revolution.”
Forms of pressure from belov
synchronised with pressure from abovi
included “calling of protest meeting:
sending delegations, organised ma;
demonstrations, and eventually the us
of strikes and the general strike.”
In this way, the author demonstrate
the non-Communist parties are “caugl
in the two jaws of a nutcracker” an
their numerical superiority in the parlii
mentary bodies and among the electoral
is cancelled ; they are rapidly d<
moralised and defeated.
The booklet deals most frankly wil
questions of tactical relations with othi
parties. The National Front, establishe
Vicky “The New Statesman."


Dwards the end of the Second World
i/ar, served as the background. Within
nis front the Communists drew the
zechoslovak Social - Democratic and
'zechoslovak National Socialist parties
ito a “Socialist bloc” which constituted
majority of the National Front and
ffectively split the non-Communist
arties. This “fulfilled the tactical prin-
iple of obtaining from all unreliable
(lies concessions and promises which go
s far as possible, as the surest w T ay of
ampromising them and helping faithful
Hies [of the Communist party] inside
lese parties.”
What Mr Kozak fails to relate is that
le majority of the skilled manipulators
f this transition were themselves later
urged, some in subsequent trials, like
lansky and Co., others with less pub-
city, like Lobl and his associates. The
ipreme irony is that had their bid to
cstroy parliamentary democracy in 1948
tiled, they would undoubtedly be alive
tid at liberty today, as well as the
bourgeois counter - revolutionaries and
etit-bourgeois vacillators” they over-
new and liquidated.
The affair reminds me of a Czech
iend of mine, an enthusiastic Commu-
ist who came to study in Britain after
le war, who spoke at meetings all over
ritam justifying and praising the
ebruary, 1948, Communist coup. He
as due to return to Czechoslo-
ikia the following year, but did not
>. It later transpired that he had
s ear to the ground, and found out
lat purges were due to begin, and that
/ the law of averages he stood a good
lance of being exhibited in one of the
ly trials, having served with the Czech
►rces in the West and having spent time
Britain subsequently. His final judg-
ent was: “If you must be a Communist,
is so much safer to stay in a bourgeois
:mocracy.”
The Kozak booklet is valuable for one
irther reason. It will be recalled that
ter 1945 not only the Communists but
any other Left-wing, Socialist, and even
If-declared liberal publications and
>litical circles assured us that times had
langed. that the “Peoples' Democracies’’
ere quite different from Communist
ates, and that the sharing of power and
sponsibility in coalition with non-
ommunists had changed the Communist
entality completely. “They are no
nger revolutionaries” we were told, “if
Krialists and liberals will only co-operate
ith them honestly, peaceful transition to
mixed Socialist society, with ample
?hts for peasants, private enterprise,
professions, etc., should be possible.”
The Communists themselves knew
Iter. Mr Kozak now pours scorn on
lims by the Czechoslovak Socialist
rty in 1945 and onwards that “Our
ate has decided for socialism in the
mocratic manner, that is to say
rough the ballot and not through
volution and dictatorship.” He describes
is as revision, reformism, and oppor-
nism. At the time, however, the Com-
jnists and “progressives” in C.S.R.
d the West denounced as “reac-
•naries” and “trouble-makers’’ anyone
:io suggested that Communist intentions
■;re to establish the dictatorship of the
oletariat.
South African Pointers
Will a referendum and/or election now
be held?
There is no tradition of an appeal
to the electorate even when a South
African Government suffers a reversal,
but Dr Verwoerd may now choose to
hold a general election as it could be
expected to increase the Nationalist
party's power. The great majority of the
three-million whites of the Union support
its suppression of ten-million Africans
and Dr Verwoerd will prefer to seek
confirmation of this through an election
rather than by holding a referendum.
He was on an each-way bet at the Prime
Ministers’ Conference: if he remained
in the Commonwealth he would please
the English and business interests in S.A.,
but being excluded pleases the Afrikaners,
who are approximately 60 per cent, of all
whites.
Whal of the adjacent territories?
Basutoland, Bechuanaland and Swazi-
land, the British protectorates, may now 7
have accelerated development. The
Nationalists want these protectorates to
become part of the Union, but Mr Mac-
millan promised some time ago that they
never would. South-west Africa is a much
more important and complex question.
The shooting of 1 1 Africans in Wind-
hoek on December 10, 1959, is a classic
example of the way South Africa has
maladministered this mandated territory ;
she has consistently ignored her obliga-
tions to the United Nations. South
Africa treats South-west Africa as an
integrated part of the Union but the
fortunes of the mandate, where apartheid
against the 366,000 Africans is earned
out on behalf of 48,000 Europeans, can-
not be regarded by other nations as an
internal affair, and this may eventually
cause the United Nations to act against
South Africa.
Will its supporters repudiate South
Africa?
Portugal and France should continue
to refrain from criticising South Africa,
because their own policies could be sub-
ject to similar criticism. Southern Rhode-
sia, although sympathising with South
Africa's racial policies, may not be vocal
in her support, as Southern Rhodesia is
intensely British and wishes to remain
within the Commonwealth. There has
been some talk of trade, defence and in-
ternal security links between Angola,
South Africa and Southern Rhodesia.
Will the internal opposition increase?
Many African leaders have already
suffered through beatings or imprison-
ment at the time of the Emergency,
but the leadership is likely to become
more militant now that the moderate
policy of the sick Chief Luthali has been
discredited through lack of success. The
African National Congress Party appears
to be losing ground to the Pan African
Congress. This has been branded as a
violent, hate-the-whites party, but it
believes in passive resistance. Unlike the
National Congress, which co-operates
with the white Liberals, the P.A.C. insists
on exclusive control of its own affairs:
it does not want to be used by Ihe whites
and it does not want to be branded
Communist, as the National Congress
was, because of links with a Communist
front-organisation. However, it is diffi-
cult for them to organise and act against
an efficient Gestapo-style police force
which has the co-operation of the Army
and Air Force, so they hope the other
Alrican States will help them through
the United Nations. The 1,500,000 colored
community and the 450,000 Asians in
South Africa are also beginning to
organise against the Government’s repres-
sive policies.
Will South Africans of English descent
take any action?
They may protest, but it is unlikely
they will take any action. Although there
is talk of secession in Natal, nothing will
come of it, for not only is the province
economically dependent on the lest of
the republic, but an armed rising would
be the only way to secede. 1 here are
reports that two Natal battalions were
kept ill-equipped during recent troubles
because their loyalty was in doubt. Some
South Africans of English descent will
emigrate in order that their children may
have British nationality.
What will be the economic effects?
South Africa intends to remain in the
sterling area, which suggests that the
existing economic framework, will not
be disturbed to any extent. There should
be no difficulty in rewording the relevant
clauses of the Imperial Preferences
agreement to satisfy the new formal
arrangements. The English consumer
boycott of Union goods has so far been
ineffective. The Australian and South
African economies are largely parallel
and imports-exports, only £7-8 million
yearly, should not be greatly affected by
the Union's new position, but their
losses in the U.K. market would be our
gain. The rumored trade alliance between
South Africa and West Germany seems
unlikely at the moment. The Union is
too small a market to become a major
consumer of West German exports.
Moreover, in a political atmosphere made
tense by the coming Eichmann trial, a
rash of war-crime prosecutions in West
Germany itself and the elections to the
Bundestag next September, the German
Federal Government will be cautious of
supporting an unpopular racial policy.
However, there may be some form of
long-term West German loans, to make
up for the continuous flight of capital
from South Africa. In the long run, im-
portant changes in South Africa’s trade
relationships could develop, as the
apartheid policy will restrict economic
development and the expansion of South
Africa’s market by inhibiting the growth
of effective demand.


FOR THE OBSERVER
It’s the Great
Cocktail Fraud
Every day in every city in Australia
thousands of invitations go out in the end-
less round of public and private entertain-
ing. Generally, at the bottom corner of
the card is printed “Cocktails If the
party is a business one, all that is avail-
able is gin with something, whisky with
something, and beer. If the party is at an
art gallery it may be sherry only, al-
though the “Cocktail” decoy is shame-
lessly exploited. If you asked the waiter
at any of these parties for something
complicated in the way of a cocktail
say, an Angel's Kiss or an Angel's Breath
—he would probably decide you had
had too much to drink and whisk the
tray away from you altogether.
Every city in the world is dotted w'ith
cocktail bars, where, licensing laws per-
mitting, people sit and drink gin with
something, whisky with something, or
just plain beer.
Nearly every Australian woman owns
a cocktail dress. She calls it a cocktail
dress, but it is doubtful whether she has
ever drunk a cocktail while she s wearing
it. She wears it to the theatre, to small
dinners and to cocktail parties where
there are no cocktails.
This cocktail fraud goes on indefin-
itely. There are cocktail rings, large
chunks of borderline precious stones,
such as topaz, or thin bands dotted with
chips which women wear after they’ve
given up wearing a wedding band, or
before they’ve acquired one. Cocktail
rings have as much to do with cocktails
as do cocktail sausages. These aren’t
even sausages. They are small frankfur-
ters and are mostly eaten, after being
boiled in a billy, by teetotal Boy Scouts
during a weekend camp or by teenagers
not sufficiently affluent for steak and
chops for their barbecue.
Recently a cocktail competition was
held during the Australian Hotel and
Catering Exposition at the Chevron Hil-
ton Hotel in Sydney. Contestants, who
had to be people in the trade, were per-
mitted to send in a premixed quantity
of their invention, or, if it were the sort
of thing which, like many fine wines,
wouldn’t travel, they could put their for-
mula in a sealed envelope and the bar-
tender on the second floor of the Chev-
ron would mix it for them. The bar-
tender, a Dutchman, had a shaking arm
which never flagged.
Many of the entries were very strong
on color if not very subtle in flavor.
“Sugar Daddy”, one part dry gin, one
part plum brandy, one part Curasao, was
bright blue. “Brighton Sunset”, devised by
Miss Marlene Feint, of the Brighton-le-
sands Hotel, was as true to color as a
Turner. It comprised dry gin, Italian
vermouth, apricot brandy and pineapple
juice. Another entry had its cherry
speared through by the ferrule of a mini-
ature Japanese paper umbrella.
However, it was hard to feel that this
was a moment when history was made,
that when the "Sugar Daddy was
launched was a moment comparable to
when someone first spilled some dry
vermouth in the gin (history does not
stick its neck out and say how much
vermouth in the gin) and said, My
God, I've invented the martini.”
While the judges, with all the enthusi-
asm but little of the dedication of the
wine taster, were at their task, seemed a
good time to find out if people really do
drink those complicated-sounding cock-
tails. Do they really sit up at a bar, read
through a lengthy list and hesitate be-
tween Angel’s Kisses and Angel s
Breaths? Does anyone ever have any-
thing except a martini or, possibly, a
Manhattan?
Immediately, the question of definition
arose. In his basement office at the Chev-
ron Hilton, the assistant beverage mana-
ger, Englishman Len Evans, pulled out
the Complete Bartenders’ Guide and rif-
fled through the pages.
“It says here, wines and/or spirits
with fruit juice,” he said. “But I don t
think that’s really right. What about your
long drinks? What about punches? You
can’t call everything mixed a cocktail.
“Actually, I’m a wine man myself. I
know my job’s beverages, but I hate gin j
and I don’t care for whisky. I don’t
really care for many cocktails, certainly
not a martini. I do quite like a cham-
pagne cocktail or even a brandy crusta is
bearable. But they’re really women’s
drinks.
“Women like everything in life to be:
as complicated as possible, even their
drinks. I don’t think anywhere in the
world people go in for the fancier mixed
drinks. People usually have one drink
and they stick to it. They also like to
show off. They will ask for a whisky
sour ‘without the white of egg’ so that
everyone will know that they know a
whisky sour should have white of egg.
“I think quite a lot of people still think
cocktails have an aura of sophistication,
but the general tendency is towards simp-
ler drinks. People are even beginning to
take theff whisky neat, the way the Scots
do. Of course, it is the proper way to
drink it. In Australia, at any rate, more
people are drinking wine with their meals
and not worrying too much about what
they have before it.”
Historically, there seems to have been
only one time when people really drank
many complicated cocktails. That was
during Prohibition in the United States,
when most people didn’t care what they
drank as long as it was something. Pat-
rick Gavin Duffy in the American Bar-
tenders’ Manual says that it was during
Prohibition that most unhealthy or eveq
dangerous mixtures were invented and it
was some years before reputable bar-
tenders could weed some of these out oi
their lists.
Another point in the history of cock-
tails is that they not only have nothing
to do with cock’s feathers, they are iri
origin much earlier than the thirties
The first reference, according to Ml
Duffy, was in an issue of American peri-
odical “The Balance” dated 1806
“Cocktail”, said “The Balance”, “is <
stimulating liquor composed of spirits o
any kind, sugar, water and bitters- —it is
vulgarly called bittered sling and is sup
posed to be an excellent electioneerin
potion.”
The Savoy Cocktail Book, from th<
Savoy Hotel, London, gives its versioi
of the origin of the name, which it dt
dares is “completely authentic”, althoug
there is a rider that “no correspondent
will be entered into.”
According to the Savoy Cockta
Book, at the beginning of the 19t
century there was considerable frictioi
between the American Army of th
Southern States and King Axolotl o
Mexico. Finally, a state of truce wa
reached and the king and the arm,
leader met in the King’s Pavilion. /


young woman came in, bearing a chalice,
filled with some concoction of her own
making. She hesitated, not knowing
whether to offer it to the King or the
general. Neither was prepared to stretch
out a hand to take it lest the other should
feel slighted. Finally, the young woman
drank it herself. “This is my daughter,
Coctel,” said the King proudly, although
he had never seen her before in his
life. So much for Coctel and history. No
correspondence will be entered into.
FOR THE CONSUMER
Scandinavian Style
In Australia, for the most part Scan-
dinavian-style furniture has meant a
light-colored table or chair, probably of
three-ply, with light-oak-colored varnish
and knock-kneed legs going off in all
directions. Almost anything even vaguely
modern or free-form w'as classified as
Scandinavian, and it's a wonder that the
Swedes, Norwegians, Danes and Finns
haven't taken with a hatchet to some of
this furniture and the people who
made it.
In an attempt to educate us to an
appreciation of Scandinavian furniture,
Scandinavia House has been opened in
Sydney’s Double Bay, Scandinavia
House is directed by a Dane, Mr Oskar
Lenau, who has been here for seven
years. He came originally to represent
some Danish firms, but decided to make
his home here. The architect is a Nor-
wegian, Mr Tor Horth, the accountant
a Dane, Mr Torvild Erritzoe; and there
is a Swede, Mr Axel G:son Rappe, who
came to Australia three years ago to
study forestry and decided to stay.
These Scandinavians come from
countries where about 90 per cent of
the houses are furnished in the modern
manner. Nice bits of Regency reproduc-
tion are practically unknown, and the
idea of furnishing a 20th-century house
in a 19th- or 18th-century manner
seems slightly ludicrous. Most pieces of
antique furniture in Scandinavian homes
are not bought in chi-chi antique shops
but are family heirlooms. Even then, the
Scandinavians generally strip back the
french polish to a matt finish.
Scandinavian design in its extreme
forms tends to become cold and sterile.
In fact, many tourists from warmer
climates have come away from Scan-
dinavia with their eyes aching for the
sight of a piece of polished mahogany
or a bit of Victorian nonsense, all deco-
ration and not much form.
How, then, do the people at Scandi-
navia House hope to fit their ideas on
design into the haphazard Australian
pattern? Mr Lenau says that the Aus-
tralian response to the furniture Scan-
dinavia House sells has been warm and
intelligent. But he and his associates
admit, with a heartfelt sigh, that they
must make some modifications to their
designs to “suit local conditions.”
For example, to the String unit-fur-
niture range (String is only a trade
name; the inventor was named Stirring)
they have added an open shelf to house
TV sets.
“In Sweden,” Mr Rappe explains, “a
TV set is not considered an aesthetic
object, and most people want it out of
sight when not in use. But in Australia
the manufacturers put big gold strips
and all sorts of fancy knobs on the set
so that everybody will know that the
owner has paid a lot of money for it.
And the owner wants it on display.”
The Scandinavians have also had to
modify their designs for cocktail cabi-
nets. “In Sweden a cocktail cabinet is
only a storage place for glasses and
bottles,” Mr Rappe said. “No one would
serve drinks from it, but here we have
to make it a suitable place from which
to serve drinks. Also, in Scandinavia
we would never have a bar in a private
house. That would be considered ex-
tremely vulgar. In Australia we have to
do these things to sell our furniture, but
perhaps in a few years we will be able
to say, take it or leave it.”
But Scandinavia House is not prima-
rily concerned with home furnishing.
They are not interior decorators,
although they will give general advice
to people who have a new house and
don’t know what to put in it. Scandi-
navia House designs furniture and
supervises its construction.
About 85 per cent of the furniture
which Scandinavia House supplies to the
retail trade now is Australian-made. The
only furniture imported from Scandinavia
are exhibition pieces or items which it
would not be economic to make here.
Exhibition pieces at present on show
include chairs designed by Verner
Panton which contain no wood and
which have no legs to speak of. The
chair is shaped like a canna lily balanced
on two crossbars of metal. The cone is
of steel with a fibreglass back uphol-
stered in foam rubber and covered with
a wool upholstery. This chair retails for
about £l2O. Another Verner Panton
chair is a cone of lattice-work alumi-
nium strips with a small foam-rubber
seat.
Feiffer
you {Mu m it? m66t bone
DARum6 'MOV ge JusT At>
KtOCKfP l?P A 6 I AM. (06 U. W6't? MAk£
IT T 0 MAO
FOP A COUPIC of
MOMfHS AMP THEN
it mulo ee
Cf COUR^t
OVER
AFT tR. AumC I POUWP IT HARD TO
ReMeMßei? on£ from me next
I 666 AM TO c?6T IOORRICD ABOUT
FIMPIM6 50MC0VC
RI6HT AMP
%TTL\ti6 OOtOM-
I AM McAßim
S/X
KMOGd
ip tu th6nj. mm fihez of cou&e u)oulp
fix Pom aoc? reu mc wou i oJAf, destroying
m Mornei? aup if i pipur reform \\iv
bIOP PAMIO& MM P£(OT.
WOc; <oow th 6 6oeoe-
THAf
Of OO M£
IM HOUR FATHER!'
YOU <00(0
m Jme «er arne MeM-honesty
ouieer- boouio cone Wof the uiooo-
WORK WAMTIU6 TO
66T, OF kU> THIM^
MARRIED. m IV
6er OFF6R^ / maturaum
foz Jobs 'Hcvuum
PRIVATE 560^1*^
Hoo Ktm m
scm.
AMP PM6 Of MM AONT6 MMsP(SVmtC I
WPRi&O 6e ,w r <M ffiOM NOWHERE
6A6PIN6 ro BRu O6
iftfftm HPMS.
r am* 3ter
emuorev. 1 lomjT’
CO fRBZDOW BUT
Att l 60T Itfße
OFMAND4!
l rue Htu U)iTH IT
mo ma mzo u'Mree.
r
CM
TH6
t/ACATi^iO.


ABORIGINALITIES
Nothing Like New Blood
Ollie came into our cane gang towards
the end of the season when the
weather was getting hot and everyone
was tired and cranky. The cook was a
bastard, the ganger a waster and even
room-mates were snapping at each other.
The cocky wasn't game to come near us.
New blood coming into a gang in this
state was like reinforcements to an army
that has lost its morale. But the new
blood had to be good blood. And Ollie
was good blood.
One of the gang had got hurt and
was out of the battle for the rest of
the season, so someone suggested getting
Ollie, who had been unsuccessfully trying
to live on the game (troy) in C aims since
he d had his clavicle broken with a truck
key by a cocky he'd been fighting. He
was fresh from his long spell off the
knife and wanted to make money quickly.
This he did —and so did we.
In no time we found ourselves behaving
amiably again. The cook was 0.K.., the
ganger not a bad bloke, and the cocky
came to the barracks every night for a
yarn.
Ollie was white in the skin from his
long spell out of the sun, so he wore a
long-sleeved shirt. He bought a pair of
footy-boots, soaked them in water over-
night and laced them on skin-tight in
the morning, leaving the studs as they
were. He filed the blade of his knife
right down near the handle and chopped
oft the hook. He had a lot of tricks up
his sleeve that we hadn't heard of. He
never walked ; he ran —even carrying
rails. He jumped over the bundles like
a steeplechaser. And all the time, in
paddock or barracks, his loud voice and
toothy smile entertained us. He didn't
believe in grog and used to bring home
piles of fruit from town at the weekend.
“That's better than all the grog,” he'd
say. So we stopped getting drunk week-
ends. He was the biggest liar unhung,
and his preposterous stories of adven-
tures in the war, the fights he'd had
and the bike-races he'd won kept us
happy. He was infectious.
After his second day his hands were
bleeding and he was stiff as a board. So
he dragged his bunk out under a shady
tree, gathered the week's newspapers
around him and stretched out. “I wouldn t
be any good to you today,” he said.
He wasn't going to bludge.
That was Friday. By Monday he was
right, and he hit the paddock like a
cyclone. We followed him, trying to
keep up, and the cane went down like
grass under a scythe.
One Saturday he said: ' Not going to
town? Come for a walk.” So we
went for a walk to a 17-acre paddock
near the river.
“This is our last paddock,” he said,
“and we'll be into it in about a month.
And it's going to be hot. And we re
going to be thirsty. ’
There was a big mango tree in the
corner of the paddock. Ihe mangoes
were still green, but we climbed the
tree and knocked down a heap of them.
Then we dug a big hole in the sandy
soil and buried the mangoes. “They 11
be just right by the time we get here,”
said Ollie.
And so they were. The last paddock,
the last spurt to get the cane in before
the mill closed and to get as much money
as possible for the coming slack season.
We dug up the mangoes as we reached
the end of each row, mad with thirst,
"Now here's something in a heavier material."
and we’d peel and eat a couple of ripe,
cold mangoes smothered with megass and
molasses from our filthy hands and hop
into the next row like giants refreshed.
I’ve never tasted mangoes like them —
or any fruit for that matter. Just another
one of Ollie’s tricks.
You can't beat new blood.
LES SUCH
THE LEVERET
To the man ploughing at night the
world becomes only the stars over-
head, the towed plough illuminated by
the rear light of the tractor and the lew
yards of furrow ahead lit up by the Iront
lights. The stars become very dear;
there is little else to hold the attention.
One begins to understand why the
ancients, in their search for explanation
and understanding, read animal shapes
into the constellations and named them.
It was in the early part of the night
that 1 came on a leveret running in the
furrow. It skipped in front of the tractor
for a few yards, then ran off into the
darkness. Half an hour later, on the
next round, the hare was in the new
furrow. He again ran a few yards and
hopped off into the unploughed night.
On the next round he was again in the
furrow and stayed there.
He ran and ran. The tractor would
almost catch him, then he would spring
from his hind legs and run harder for a
few yards. He seemed to be running
very fast, but as the tractor was travel-
ling at only four miles an hour, the
impression was given by his short legs.
At least he was running as fast as he
could. Suddenly he stopped right in
front of the tractor, and 1 had to brake
hard so as not to run over him. He crept
backwards and crouched in the furrow
right under the front wheel. I had to
dismount to move him.
It is always astonishing to pick up a
live hare ; its cry is so loud, so harsh,
so insistent and so unexpected.
There was a sudden thumping to my
right. It is very dark beyond the lights
of the tractor. I stroked the little hare
and he stopped squealing. There was a
sound of running and more thumping
to my left. I felt uneasy. It sounded like
a big animal, and there should have been
no big animals in the paddock. The
leveret squealed again. Thump, thump,
thump. The noise was nearer now. There
was a sudden rush of thumping. The
animal, whatever it was, was charging.
Out of the night into the circle of
light came the mother hare. Her gait was
extraordinary. She ran on her front legs
and stepped high with her back legs
drumming the full length of the long
shank on the ground with every step.
The noise was as loud as that of a


“alloping horse. She came straight to
ae and smelled at the young one in my
:and, then she rose upright, held out
er front paws for balance and worked
er hind legs frenziedly. No modern
rummer with his forelock tossing ever
eat a more furious tattoo. The young
are began to squeal again. I set him
own, and he ran with his mother out
f the area of light. I was left with the
ars.
ERIC C. ROLLS
HE SNAKE WITHIN
"Yne of the best-known merchants of
menace in the north of Australia —•
robably second only to the taipan—is the
ing Brown or Mulga snake. It is, in
tet, readily mistaken for the taipan by
te uninitiated ; of very similar color,
inhabits the same country and probably
aches Bft in length. It actually belongs
> the same mob as the well-known red-
dlied black snake (genus Pseudechis)
id shares the pleasant family habit of
iting other snakes. This once aroused
momentarily tense situation between
yself and a mate of mine.
We were ploughing through the mud
May last year, down from “the 'Loo”
ross the Barkly Tablelands, to get on
e bitumen once more. About 20 miles
)rth of Walhalla station a sudden shriek
>out a “cheeky one” from a boy sent
v mate tumbling out to grab a Mulga
about 4ft long and put him in a bag. We
didn't notice it then, but it was unusually
quiet for a King Brown snake.
We finally crawled into Anthony’s
Lagoon that evening to the hospitality of
Constable Bill Taylor and his wife. When
we turned-to in the morning we decided
to photograph the snake and show it to
the Taylors. Opening the sugarbag to
grab the thing, my mate let out a puzzled
squeak about it not being a very good
joke to put a brown snake in with the
Mulga, as they could have eaten each
other. My indignant denial and the con-
viction that nobody else could have been
to the bag made us remember the docility
of the Pseudechis australis when we had
picked it up along the track. It had
swallowed the brown snake moments
before its capture, and the nervous re-
action (common in snakes) was to spit
it out again. The two of them were
alive and kicking that morning. That’s
fair dinkum. We have two unimpeach-
able witnesses. The brown snake was
just on 30in. long.
OHIDIA
FEATHERED STOWAWAYS
in Australia have just
learned, through the medium of an
English naval journal, that Victoria is,
or may be, harboring a batch of Indian
crows. It appears that when the M.V.
Travince left Colombo some months ago
four crows quartered themselves aloft
and stayed put. Six days later one got
itself blown down a ventilator, but the
other three, subsisting on scraps of food
provided by the crew, reached Australia
in good order. They made no attempt
to leave the ship off Cape Leeuwin
(W.A.), nor off Cape Otway (Vic.), but
they vanished when the vessel reached
Geelong.
The English journal describes this
adventure as “the most unique assisted
passage yet recorded.” In fact, crows
from Colombo have reached Australia, as
ship stowaways, on a number of occa-
sions, but hitherto they have always dis-
embarked on the west coast ; and there
they have always been promptly hunted
down and shot, the idea being that they
might become pests. The latest arrivals
are the first to reach Victoria. Presuming
that they are still there, bird-watchers are
on the alert —seeking three smallish crows
colored ashy-brown on the breast and
upper back.
WULWORRA
That Was the Country
Kangaroo-rat grilled on the coals is
as delectable as anv tucker the Australian
bush affords. Don’t bother to skin the
beast. Simply hold it over the lire until
the heat distends the carcase and all fur
is burnt off; then eviscerate, and wash
the body and put it, dissected into four
parts, on the coals.
— “Bulletin”, September 14, 1916.
On the western cattle stations of the
Diamantina and Georgina Rivers, of far-
back Queensland, when, on account of
distance from railways and mills, floor-
ing boards were unprocurable, a substit-
ute was found in gidya and boree ashes
laid down in layers, each layer being
treated in hot, greasy water in which
meat had been boiled. The mixture made
an almost indestructible floor, almost, if
not quite, as hard as sandstone. Some
adepts gave a finishing touch, which
produced a hard, glazed surface almost
resembling a skating rink cement floor.
The originators of the scheme are said
to be west-of-Darling cooks.
—“Bulletin”, September 21, 1916.
Victoria is dotted with the browsing
goat and the abundant jam tin which
mark the decadent mining township.
Buninyong at one time looked down at
Ballarat as a poor relation. But then
(.some fiend, poking around Ballarat, found
jgold there too, whereupon Buninyong
(experienced its first slump. After that
Ballarat grew and grew, and usurped
Buninyong’s position as the leading
(centre of inland Victoria. Then somebody
Took on quartz mining, and the ancient
.village boomed once more. But the reefs
also began to peter out, and the town-
ship froze again, and the inhabitants
spent all their time trying to sell their
premises with goat attached —to one
another. — “Bulletin”, November 18, 1909.
Handf.d in at a country police station
in Victoria recently: —
“£1 reward for information leading to
arrest of my white missus and two young
girls and one young boy (all half castes) .
My missus has fine set of white teeth,
being nice looking except for face, which
is out of order a little, and khaki hair.
—“Bulletin”, October 5, 1916.
Some figures for the believer in a White
Australia to pin in his hat. In the pearl-
ing industry on the nor’-west coast at
present 342 luggers are engaged, of which
300 are registered at Broome, 12 at Ons-
low and 30 at Roeburne. These are man-
ned by 308 white men and 2388 Asiatics.
Over 1381 tons of shells were raised
during the year, bringing a total of
£331,440, nine-tenths of which has gone
into alien pockets —further enrichment
for those whom Australia has most to fear.
— “Bulletin”, August 6, 1914.
LANDSCAPE
Standing grimly against the ruthless sky’s
prophetic agony,
haunting the eyes
of those who see:
a little house beside the line
in a sulking paddock where
bored sheep recline
and blindly stare.
North and south and east and west
old stumps stand
and grey logs rest
while, against the black
of an open door a sleeve waves,
the whistle of a train screams back,
and gives her what she craves.
JAMES HACKSTON.


LOOK BACK AT ANGER: Censorship
From The Bulletin, February I, 1933.
THE CENSOR AND HIS JOB
MICAWBER: “ Ah ! I see that this country has reversed my system of Waiting for something
to turn up by merely waiting for something to turn down."


The Red Page
Stevenson at Vailima
By NORMAN LINDSAY
Last Witness for Robert Louis Steven-
son. E. N. Caldwell. Melbourne
University Press. 455.
THE “last witness” is his step-
daughter, Isobel Osbourne, and with
her recent death goes the last sur-
vivor of the Stevenson family circle
at Samoa. She left her unfinished
reminiscences to Elsie Noble Caldwell,
who put them into book shape, with
some additions of her own.
On the whole the work covers
material already common property to
readers of Stevensoniana. and is con-
siderably padded by extracts from
Stevenson's writings and letters, while
the part which deals with the Vailima
circle is in an idyllic key. and lyricised
with the impassioned nostalgia of old
age. Isobel seems to have spent her
latter years indignantly denouncing and
refuting any hint of irreverence to
Stevenson, whom she affirms to be the
finest man she ever knew —the idolator
does not make the best biographer.
Only one rather startling revelation
emerges from her memories, and that is
autobiographical, and touches on a
member of the Vailima circle whose
place in it has puzzled all readers of
the Stevenson saga —Joe Strong,
Nobel's husband, who permeates any
personal records dealing with Vailima
like one of those chemical by-products,
which is known to be. but is not known.
He flits vaguely about on the outskirts
of Vailima affairs, lacking an identity,
and never figuring in their social events.
Up to this, the only valid evidence of
his existence has been in group photo-
graphs, whose identities are ticked
off from left to right.
It is through one of these photos
that we get the first hint that his pre-
sence in the Vailima circle was offen-
sive to Stevenson, who went to the
trouble of cutting Joe out of a photo-
graph in which Stevenson himself
figured, and carefully joining up the cut
sections, which he then had rephoto-
graphed. As an act of ostracism, it
overlooked the existence of other copies
of the photo, which remained to replace
the obnoxious Joe again in close asso-
ciation with Stevenson.
Photos of Joe reveal him to have
been a small man with a pekinese
poodle's nose and a large moustache
of the soup-strainer species, to distin-
guish it from the military ram’s-horned
and the elegant handlebar patterns
favored by hirsute masculinity of the
’eighties. These photos also convey a
hint of social disparity in Joe’s status
as a Vailima inhabitant. He alone
wears the native lavalava instead of
trousers: a thing not done in that era
in which white trousers predated shorts
as the only tropic wear for gentlemen.
Isobel’s account of Joe's final exit
from Vailima strikes a high note of
drama: —
“I was sewing in the cottage when
Joe came hurrying up the steps with
his two travelling bags. ‘Looks like
you were going some place,’ 1 said
' half-facetiously.
“ Tm leaving,' he snapped, as he
began snatching his clothes off the
hooks and throwing them into the
bags.
“ ‘Leaving me. or leaving Samoa?’
I asked.
“ ‘Both,’ he growled.
“ ‘You might tell me what has
happened.'
“ ‘Ask Louis,' was all he would
say, and kept repeating it, disdaining
even a civil good-bye as he called
two of the Samoan boys to carry
his bags on a shoulder-pole.
“Scarcely had he disappeared when
• Louis came striding across the lawn
and up the stairs. He was more
angry than I've ever seen him. and
he was breathing with alarming in-
tensity. I literally pushed him into
a chair.
“ ‘I came to tell you that you will
have to divorce Joe. He has out-
raged the principles of decent be-
havior. I'll assume responsibility
for you and Austin [Nobel's son].
Your home is here with us. We
can’t spare you. We need you.’
“I was too concerned for him to
think of myself, and I must have
stood there like a dummy before I
thought to pour him a glass of cool
lemonade. But 1 never learned what
took place between the two men . . .”
That row was clearly the end of
Stevenson's tolerance for Joe's off-
stage antics. He was a loafer and re-
fused to do his share in the chores
essential to running an estate like
Vailima. He was a boozer, and robbed
the cellar and store-room at night with
false keys. He had been running an
affair with a native woman in Apia
ever since he came to the place, and
was also having an affair with one of
the native girls on the home premises,
which doubtless brought Stevenson’s
exasperation with him to a crisis. His-
tory does not record what happened
to him after his ejectment from Vailima
save that he went round Apia spread-
ing slanders about Isobel.
Elsie Noble Caldwell throws light
on another item of psychological inter-
est in relation to Stevenson’s devastat-
ing Open Letter to the Rev. Hyde, in
retort on his alleged defamation of
Father Damien. We have Stevenson's
fury and the Open Letter accounted for.
What of the man who received it?
The Rev. Hyde wrote to a clerical
brother in Australia a letter which
gibbeted Father Damien as a coarse,
dirty, bigoted and intemperate man
and said that the leprosy of which he
died was contracted by his sexual rela-
tions with the leper women. (Horror
can conceive no more ghastly con-
summation of the amorous imperative,
and it is a wonder that the Shorter
Catechist in Stevenson condoned it.)
For the rest, the Rev. Hyde's descrip-
tion of Father Damien was common
knowledge, nor did Stevenson denounce
it as a calumny. What had enraged
him when in Honolulu was the smug,
safety-first existence of the Protestant
missionaries there, with their large
comfortable homes and their opulent
incomes. He had visited the leper
settlement, and the contrast there of
the Catholic missionaries ministering to
the most loathsome and obscene of all
human diseases made his anger boil
over when he read Rev. Hyde's letter
in an Australian church magazine. It
was a private letter, not written for
publication, and the ill-advised clerical
gentleman who. published it was the
instrument for bringing down on the
Rev. Hyde the terrific bludgeon of
Stevenson's attack.
Critical attack on moral, personal
or aesthetic grounds is one of the endur-
ance tests imposed on human en-
deavor. Wisdom ignores it; temper re-
torts on it; weakness is quelled by it.
The Rev. Hyde belonged to the third
order. The Open Letter demolished
him completely. It crushed his career
and he never recovered from it.
For the rest. Isobel presents only
the pleasing side of the Vailima family
circle which is to controvert the uni-
versal law that allots to all families
a fair allowance of ill-temper and
squabbling as an essential cathartic to
its repressions. A man and wife who
go through life without a good hearty
row at intervals must be depleted of
emotional vitality, and neither Steven-
son nor Fanny can be ranked among
such debilitated creatures. It was their
virtue that they were both highly
charged with emotional and intellec-
tual dynamics and yet created a per-
fectly successful marriage. We get the
best picture of it from Fanny’s diary
and Moors's “With Stevenson in
Samoa.” Fanny did not write for pub-
lication and Moors, having no literary


or intellectual prejudices, looked on
Stevenson with the realistic eye of one
man to another. He can't be accounted
free of prejudice in Fanny’s case, for
both he and Fanny disliked each other.
Stevenson's presentation of himself
in the Vailima letters is an idealised
self-portrait, written for posterity. No
doubt he had great personal charm,
as everybody who knew him attests,
but I suspect that Stevenson himself
was most susceptible to his own charm.
A consciousness of it underlies nearly
everything he wrote about himself. He
suffered a great deal from bad health
all his life, but always referred to his
physical ills in a light-hearted way,
and with an accent of humor. It is
not to depreciate Stevenson to say
that this is not so much an attribute
of heroism under suffering, as a self-
protective need to fight off depression,
which weakens resistance to illness
of the body. The spirit can be a pro-
phylactic against its ills. Only the
hypochondriac and wilful invalid may
groan aloud over their alleged suffer-
ings, the one because his sufferings
are fraudulent (hypochondriacs are
mainly male) and the other because
her claim to them (wfilful invalids
are mainly female) is an ingenious de-
vice to throw all responsibility for her-
self on others. A man who is really ill
must crack hardy and make a joke of it,
otherwise his malady will kill him.
For all his spasmodic ill-health,
Stevenson would probably have lived
the normal span of old age. He had the
spirit and the wit to defeat these minor
treacheries of the body. It was a sud-
den stroke that killed him. The body
was too quick for him to marshal his
defences against it.
A Surgeon from Scotland
The Reluctant Surgeon. John Kobler.
Heinemann. 265.
TOHN KOBLER gets away to an awk-
ward start in this biography of
John Hunter, the great Scottish surgeon
who began his medical career in
London in 1748 and who was to
number among his patients Boswell.
Gainsborough and the infant Lord
Byron. In attempting to paint a grim
and colorful period he over-paints it
and loses conviction.
Were all the hens in poverty-stricken
Scotland “thin"? Was there never one
fat hen in the country? Did all the
guests at all Scottish weddings “gorge
and guzzle" all night, or did they not
simply enjoy a wedding-feast as people
do today? Was everybody always
drunk at all Scottish funerals and. in
that bleak country, was the room where
the wake was held always “hot”? Did
all Scottish parents ferociously whip
their children all day long and. if
they did. how does Mr Kobler explain
the instance which he mentions of the
nobleman who objected to his wife's
beating their young so often? Were
there no other kind-hearted Scottish
parents?
Mr Kobler also seems unreliable in
his portrait of John Hunter's brother
William who preceded John to Lon-
don, became famous as an anatomist
and gynaecologist, brought Pitt the
Younger into the world and was wholly
responsible for setting John on the
path to success. The brothers did, in
fact, quarrel and drift apart in their
later years, partly because William
borrowed an internal organ out of a
sailor's corpse from John and refused
to return it. chiefly because John in
1780 claimed to have discovered the
structure of the placenta which William
had announced as far back as 1755.
But, as Mr Kobler admits, John seems
to have been at fault here and really he
seems to dislike William for no other
reason than that, having John for his
hero, he has to find a villain somewhere
to have the right proportion of goodies
and baddies.
It is manifestly absurd to accuse
William of “deserting" his parents be-
cause he went to London to become
a great surgeon was he to spend all
his life on the farm in Calder Glen, or,
without training and experience, can-
ing up the local farmers?—and it is
grossly unfair to comment, when Wil-
liam began to assemble his magnificent
collection of paintings, that “collecting
became a vice.” What was wrong
with collecting Rubens. Rembrandt,
Murillo, Titian and Chardin?
Still, discounting the over-emphasis
in the first few chapters, the period was
certainly colorful enough. If one is
continually surprised in this book not
so much by the barbarity of 18th
century' medical knowledge and
methods as, at least after the Hunters
had finished with it. their degree of
modernity, it was still the period when
the question of whether or not Mrs
Toft was giving birth to litters of
rabbits could be seriously debated by
the leading surgeons of the nation under
the direction of King George III; and
when, corpses for dissection being hard
to come by, body-snatching was prac-
tised (often enough in person) by the
most reputable medical practitioners;—-
Few graves were safe. With
experience the bodysnatchers
developed an ingenuity hard to foil.
If spring guns were mounted in the
cemetery, female confederates decked
in spurious widows’ weeds would,
while pretending to pray, detach the
trip-wires. Bodies had to be snatched
soon after burial or not at all, for
once putrefaction set in they were
unsaleable. Some bereaved families
built small stone houses where the
departed remains could be kept
under lock and key. The resurrec-
tionists would pick the lock.
Stocky, carrot-haired and uncouth,
John was always useful to his more
refined brother in the body-snatching
side of the business, says Mr Kobler,
because he got along well with the re-
surrection men; and perhaps his
greatest triumph in this line was in
securing the body of the Bft Irish
giant. Charles Byrne. Haunted for
months before he died (of gin and
tuberculosis) by John's emissary, the
giant flatly refused to be dissected
and arranged to be buried at sea in a
heavily weighted casket. However, be-
fore the casket had actually been
thrown into the water the body was
sold by the corpse-bearers to the sur-
geon for the staggering sum of £5OO.
John boiled it to free the bones from
the flesh and. after a decent and pru-
dent interval of two years, during which
it was known mysteriously as “the tall
man," the skeleton was duly exhibi-
ted in John's museum, accompanied by
paintings of two of the giant's former
colleagues in the show business,
Count Borulwaski and the Sicilian
Fairy. Other companions were a stuffed
giraffe and some pickled two-headed
babies.
Mr Kobler is much happier, in his
gruesome way. when he gets away from
generalisations to this sort of direct,
factual account of the period and of
the grimy, industrious and devoted
part which John Hunter played in it.
In fact, if you can take it. this bio-
graphy is a fascinating piece of read-
ing.
Byron’s mother brought him to John
Hunter to try to get surgical treatment
for his club-foot. Boswell came with
his usual ailment —Hunter himself w 7 as
to die from injecting himself with the
syphilis germ: he had some mistaken
ideas about it—and also to beg for
treatment for his wife's tuberculosis.
Gainsborough came with a cancer
which he had first noticed at the trial
of Warren Hastings. But lest it should
be thought that the book is entirely
composed of such dark details, one
should emphasise that there are such
(comparatively) lyrical touches as
Hunter's belief that the Divinity was
probably a Great Chemist; and the
comfort he brought to an anonymous
draper by instructing him how to arti-
ficially inseminate his wife, whose sub-
sequent healthy child was “the first
known product of human artifical in-
semination"; and the success which
his assistant had in preserving the
battered cadaver of a black swan from
Australia; and, finally, in the incident
w 7 hich seems most typical of his in-
defatigable energy and curiosity, the
spectacle of him —witnessed by one
of his students —earnestly, at four
o’clock in the morning, dissecting a
beetle.
Douglas Stewart


A Marxist on Art
nanent Red. John Berger. Methuen.
>s. 6d.
lERE is something self-contradic-
tory. these days, about the notion of
Marxist critic of the arts. It is
tral to assume that anybody who
ill a Marxist will have lost touch
i the arts somewhere back along the
that if he does mention literature
ainting or music, his approach will
•Id-fashioned, ill-informed and dog-
ising. In Australia, at least, this
is all too predictably the case,
f course, to espouse Marxism any-
re in the West now involves an in-
rable deal of juggling and tight-rope
dng. But an occasional outstand-
acrobat may remind us that Marxist
cism is not an impossibility; now
then a book like John Berger’s
rmanent Red” may appear: a book,
is, which is sensitive, wide-ranging
honest, which has points of real
ortance to make about the condi-
of contemporary art.
Permanent Red” is a collection of
*t articles on painting and sculpture
ch Berger originally contributed to
“New Statesman.” These reviews
reflections are arranged in an
er which gives the book some
;e of logical development. Thus the
cles on contemporary painters are
jped under the successive headings,
lists Defeated by the Difficulties,”
lists Who Struggle.” “The Develop-
lt of Twentieth Century Art” and
ventieth Century Masters.”
'hese four sections develop the cen-
argument of the book, analysing
prescribing new directions for art
what Berger sees as a decadent
irgeois civilisation. But he does
k closely at the art and respond to
uelligently (despite a complete faii-
to understand Paul Klee); and he
eady enough to admit the banality
l sentimentality of the Soviet alterna-
:. At best, too. he can convincingly
Dody social and economic arguments
he fabric of his criticism: in account-
far the failure of Jackson Pollock,
instance, or in relating the limited
immensely civilised achievement of
tisse to “the world of the French
ite bourgeoisie. No other class in
modern world enjoyed the kind
seclusion, fine taste and luxury that
expressed in Matisse’s work.”
Jerger sees the central, and most
itful, tradition in modern painting
1 sculpture as that transmitted by
: Cubists (his “Masters” include
ger, Picasso, Zadkine, Lipchitz and
is), and his comments on the Cubist
olution are probably the most stimu-
ng in the book. Above all, he makes
ge claims for its human value:—
The artist, in other words, be-
ame his own subject, not in any
übjective or egocentric manner, but
as a result of his considering himself
and the functioning of his own senses
as an integral part of the Nature he
was studying. This was the formula
for Cubism and when Cezanne in-
sisted on being faithful to Nature via
his petite sensation he predicted it.
Again, however, I want to emphasise
that by formula 1 mean a new, revo-
lutionary truth, which, once posed,
can be generally learned, taught and
applied. Why revolutionary? Be-
cause, simultaneously with the scien-
tific discoveries of that period
(Rutherford, Planck, FJnstein) which
were just beginning to give man, for
the first time in history, the possi-
bility of an adequate control of his
environment, the Cubist formula
presupposed, also for the first time
in history, man living unalienated
from Nature.
The essays on great painters of the
past are rather more uneven, more
apt to theorise at large about social
patterns, the Romantic movement,
bourgeois art and what you will. Never-
theless there are some good things
among them, notably a fine essay on
Piero della Francesca which is a model
of what art criticism can achieve: it
is concrete, specific, starting from the
close examination of a single fresco,
yet it moves economically and persua-
sively to conclusions which can easily
modify one's whole response to Piero.
There are weaknesses and over-
simplifications in “Permanent Red.”
Some of the essays are too scrappy,
others too rhetorical, too easily rounded
off with a neat flourish. Nevertheless it
is a valuable and important book. The
questions Berger asks concern us all;
the example he sets should remind us
that art criticism can sometimes be a
valuable occupation.
Chris Wallace-Crabbe
Out of the A.N.U.
The Communist International System.
George Modelski. Centre of Inter-
national Studies. Princeton Uni-
versity. 10s.
TF there has been a growth of a dis-
-*■ tinctively Australian culture, it has
so far not been able to produce much
of a specifically Australian contribu-
tion to the social sciences. In some
fields —economics, perhaps anthro-
pology —Australians have made inde-
pendent theoretical contributions. By
and large, however, the basic ideas used
here in social and political theory have
been derivative. The only original
and independent thinker in this field
would be John Anderson. And even
his case needs much more discussion.
The European sources of some of his
ideas, and what he independently did
with them, need charting. Those of his
school competent to do so have neg-
lected this task. No doubt they fear
giving aid to the pygmies who now are
trying hard to “forget” Anderson or
else “cut him down to size.”
So far as political science is con-
cerned Australian academics have very
largely relied on English ideas, while
taking the basis of such scanty remarks
as they have made about our social
structure from Tocqueville plus Turner.
But a new Mecca is rising on the hori-
zon: the U.S.A. The trend is just
beginning, its direction seems clear.
More and more scholars are trying for
Harvard, Yale or Princeton rather than
Oxbridge. Reputations are beginning to
be made in U.S. journals. The interest
of U.S. foundations is being courted
successfully for funds to carry out
empirical work on Australian society.
Ironically enough the basic theoretical
questions supposed to have thrown light
on them in this way have been taken
over from the U.S.
Whatever one’s opinion about this
trend, a scholar interested in Inter-
national Relations at the theoretical
level has no alternative but to turn to
the U.S. For it is only there—often
by people born in Europe or who in
turn derived their basic ideas from
Europe—that serious theoretical work
goes on. There is none in England,
Dr Modelski is the second A.N.U.
man—A. L. Burns in International
Relations and theory of history being
the other—who has now produced a
work strongly influenced by current
American theorising about Interna-
tional Relations. A most interesting,
and, in the part about the management
of conflict within a Communist sys-
tern, at times exciting, monograph is the
result.
In the Australian context, however,
it is not possible to even hint at its
theoretical content, let alone attempt
a summary of it. There is hardly the
beginnings of an academic, let alone
a lay intelligentsia, familiar with the
work of men such as Parsons or
Kaplan, acquaintance with which is a
prerequisite for understanding what
Modelski is trying to do.
This, precisely, is the dilemma with
which scholars such as Modelski are
faced: the conditions for informed
criticism of their work in Australia are
simply lacking. The reaction to this
type of highly abstract analysis is
likely to be anger and puzzlement or
else uncritical endorsement, hiding
ignorance.
Even in the U.S., with round 6-7000
political scientists, this type of work is
still a distinct minority interest. It
could only exist in a society where the
profession has evolved to a much
higher division of labor than will be
the case in Australia in the foreseeable


future. As things are. the monograph
will not be read by more than a dozen
people here, and certainly not by policy
makers to whom it will all be “airy-
fairy.”
Hence it is highly likely that, in the
long run. instead of our political
scientists being jolted out of their rut
by having to wrestle with the impact of
U.S. ideas, those interested in the
theoretical aspects will be forced to
seek a career in the U.S.A.
Henry Mayer
Montherlant's Essays
Selected Essays. Henry de Monther-
lant. Weidenfeld and Nicolson. 20s.
TiENRY DE MONTHERLANT is a
curious figure in the French literary
scene. One-time bullfighter, footballer,
prose-poet of Spain, antiquity, the
beauty of athletics and the joys of
physical effort, now a rather vocal
recluse, he first found popularity in the
’thirties as a writer of violent anti-
feminist tendencies and some of his
novels have managed to survive the
poverty of his outlook.
Early in the war Montherlant turned
his attention to w'riting for the theatre,
had immediate success and is one of
the very few, if not the only living
writer whose work forms part of the
permanent repertoire of the Comedie
Francaise. His historical-religious
plays. “The Master of Santiago.”
“Port Royal." “Malatesta,” brought
a fresh note of lyricism and real drama-
tic poetry into the French theatre, and
his latest play “The Cardinal of Spain"
is being acclaimed at the moment in
France as a masterpiece.
This collection of essays edited with
an introduction by Peter Quennell. is
the first volume of a projected
authorised uniform edition of Monther-
lant’s works to be published in English.
It is not an auspicious beginning. It
includes random jottings, fragmentary
pieces of journalism from 1918 to
1945. extracts from different note-books
and diaries, mostly revealing Monther-
lant’s early desire “to live a life of
enchantment and to be uncommitted.”
and his need for pure sensuality without
tenderness or love. It also includes his
much-discussed “Explicit Mysterium"
—reflections on death.
The essays written in the ’thirties
during the rise of Hitler are unin-
formed, silly and irresponsible. He
praises the totalitarian spellbinders for
“preventing those who prefer happiness
from falling into inefficiency” and for
“keeping alive a feeling for the pre-
cariousness of existence: not only do
they add zest to life by investing it with
Lyrebird and
Tree-fern
Mist and rain, mist and rain,
the lyrebird singing undismayed
in his mountain world of rain,
frond and vine and leaf and blade.
Song for sake of song and sound
on the leaves and blades of rain
stayed me where the tree-fern's fronds
lifted, sank, and rose again.
In that world of cloudy, huge
forests crowding out all room,
with the tunnel of the road
leading into drenching gloom,
voiceless, rooted in the earth,
on some upward draught of air
how the tree-fern with its fronds
danced its silent ritual there.
N.S.W.
ROLAND ROBINSON.
Beliefs Remain
Beliefs remain like ghosts that fail,
That would be recognised though pale,
And yet they mock and trouble me
While suicides regard a sea
And martyrs wait each Cross and nail.
Quaint legions go to find their Grail.
Like a blind man who fingers braille
1 feel for truths I'll never see:
Beliefs remain.
A prisoner, but in my jail,
1 search for walls that 1 might scale
Knowing each side is just as free.
Though journeys, words, contain no
key.
And poems end without avail,
Beliefs remain.
VICTORIA.
R. A. SIMPSON.
The Landfall
There was a tide-mark on the jetty
which
Marked this side of ocean, and so the
leagues
Seemed meaningless after our land-
fall ; pitch
And toss of the long weeks when sea-
legs
Ferried us, numbed us ashore. Nobody
Down the long, strong jetty spoke a
word.
No wave to carry us, but the shoddy
Bus on the beach ; and a screaming
sea-bird.
Handkerchief-white, a gesture of
Departure, once over the sea-wall’s
eyelid
Closed, with the sea out of view and
the stuff
Of our sea-trip grubby around our
feet. “Rid
Of that damned, dirty weather at
last,” someone said,
While names like spiders crawled all
over our waiting-shed.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.
Cat in Bits
I sat in a chair by the fireside
In slippers and woollen gown.
I called my cat “Here pussy-puss,
Here pussy-cat,” I cried.
In there came my pussy’s purr
And sat down on my lap.
I stroked her purr and nursed her purr
As I sat by the fireside
And called again “Here pussy-puss,
Here pussy-cat,” I cried.
In there came my pussy's paws
And sat down with my pussy's purr.
I stroked her paws and nursed her
purr
As I sat by the fireside.
And called again “Here pussy-puss,
Here pussy-cat,” I cried.
In there came my pussy's legs
And sat down on my pussy's paws.
I stroked her legs and nursed her paws
As I sat by the fireside
And called again “Here pussy-puss,
Here pussy-cat,” I cried.
In there came my pussy’s tail
And sat down by my pussy's legs.
I stroked her tail and nursed her legs
As I sat by the fireside
And called again “Here pussy-puss,
Here pussy-cat,” I cried.
In there came my pussy’s body
And fastened to her wagging tail.
I stroked her body, nursed her tail
As I sat by the fireside
And called again “Here pussy-puss,
Here pussy-cat,” I cried.
In there came my pussy’s neck
And sat down on my pussy’s body.
I stroked her neck and nursed her
body
As I sat by the fireside
And called again “Here pussy-puss,
Here pussy-cat,” I cried.
In there came a savage head
And sat down on my pussy’s neck.
I nursed her neck and feared the head
As I sat by the fireside
And called again “Here pussy-puss,
Where is my cat ?” 1 cried.
“I ate her up and she is dead,”
The awful head replied:
“And who are you and what are you,
And why have you come?” I cried.
“I’m Thing, just Thing, and I’ve come
for you,”
The awful head replied.
[At the back of Walter de la Mare's
“Come Hither” is a traditional Scottish
ballad about a wife who wished for com-
pany and was given, limb by limb, a strange
man indeed; it is much too good a tale to
remain in dialect and small print at the
back of a book, even though at the back
of a very good book, and I have made this
of it.]
N.S.W.
ERIC C. ROLLS.


touch of anxiety (the vinegar in the
Had) but they keep alive an awareness
p the relativity of all things.’ So
mch for Montherlant’s intelligence
nd wisdom.
There is an amusing glimpse ot ms
ristocratic parents who wondered for
long time whether or not they should
It him sit the baccalaureat examina-
on: “In their view, I think, it was
)t so much learning itself that was
as the fact of allowing their
i>n to be ‘examined* by strangers whose
social origins were more than doubt-
ful.” And there is a note on a woman
friend “who has such respect for
sensual pleasure that nothing in the
world would bring her to separate two
copulating flies.” But these are a very
small and hardly rewarding return from
300 closely printed pages.
Peter Quennell makes some gener-
ous claims for Montherlant in his
skilful introduction, but this book does
not justify them.
Vivian Smith
Chaplin and Sons
ly Father, Charlie Chaplin. By
Charles Chaplin, Jnr, with N. and
M. Rau. Longmans. 31s.
CHARLES CHAPLIN, Junior, is the
- / first son of Charlie and his second
fife, Lita Grey. He and his brother Syd
fere still babies when the marriage
roke up. But a few years later their
lother’s mother persuaded Chaplin to
ee them, and soon a routine was
volved whereby they spent the week
t school and the weekends at Chaplin s
ix-acre estate between the Pickford-
’airbanks and Harold Lloyd mansions
►n Summit Drive, Beverley Hills.
This book is mainly about those
veekends; about Chaplin s teaching
hem table-manners and arriving home
:xhausted from the studio, still in his
ramp’s make-up, to be helped out of
iis car, carried up to bed. undressed
md put in a hot bath. He mimicked
*, very one who came to see him, and
;ven invited people who interested him
;o that he could study them. Young
Charles met Horowitz there, among
nany other celebrities, but never
Rachmaninoff, who was also a visitor;
/et when he later saw Rachmaninoff
ie seemed to have known him a very
long time because of Charlie’s wonder-
ful mimicry.
There are also unusual views of
Chaplin, especially as a writer, moodily
preoccupied with scripts and incidental
music and, like many men of genius,
abnormally sensitive; he hung around
in the Brown Derby for an hour be-
cause he had called Joe E. Brown
“Harry” on the way in and didn't want
to pass him on the way out. Yet when
he was challenged in another restaurant
by a bully much bigger than he was
he knocked the bully’s front teeth out
with his head. He found it embarras-
sing, though, to be told by a group of
admiring gangsters that if he wanted
anyone out of the way he had only to
say the word.
The spotlight is rather on the father
than the sons throughout the book.
Perhaps the sons’ best exploit was
setting up a roadside stand to sell some
50 bottles from Charlie’s liquor closet;
when David Selznick, from over the
way, saw all that fine imported liquor
going at 50 cents a bottle he bought the
lot. But certainly the arrival and stay
of Paulette Goddard was the boys’ best
time; lost between an invalid mother
and a preoccupied father, they found
in Paulette Goddard a union of the
kindest of stepmothers, a sister and a
playmate: young Charles’s memories of
her are warmer than even of being
kissed on a yacht by Hedy Lamarr, or
dancing with Marilyn Monroe when
she was still only Dougherty.
The last part of the book is the
Chaplin side of the Barry case, in
which Charles, Jnr, discloses that at
the height of the case, when every-
thing was being done to keep Chaplin’s
name out of the papers, his son Syd
almost got himself arrested and charged
with rape. The story goes on to where,
Chaplin’s paternity of Miss Barry’s
child having been disproved by blood-
tests, he was beaten in a further case
on grounds of general public disappro-
bation, and. having left America with
his new wife, Oona O’Neill, had his
re-entry permit cancelled by the
Attorney - General, who later called
Chaplin an “unsavory character.”
America’s quarrel with Chaplin
rested on the scandal of his marriages
and suspicion that he was a Com-
munist. His son says outright that
Chaplin never was a Communist. No
doubt many Americans who disap-
prove of his politics or lack of them
have lived more scandalous private
lives. Yet Chaplin was a good deal
to blame; while the hue and cry was
on for several years to find out whether
Chaplin and Paulette Goddard were
married, Chaplin encouraged it; it was
good publicity. But that is the mistake
a great many entertainers make. The
audience that came to see Chaplin the
clown was a sound audience, but the
audience that comes to see a clown be-
cause he is a great lover or a notoriety
is a corrupt audience that will get as
much pleasure out of tearing him down
as out of admiring him. Without this
corrupt audience Chaplin’s enemies
might not have been able to make
their political charges stick. The artist
has any man’s right to a wild private
life, but for him to capitalise it is
worse than a crime; it is a blunder.
The book also sees young Charles
through his army service, and back
into Hollywood and London as an
actor, and fighting a tendency to drink
too much; all in all, like so many bio-
graphies and autobiographies of our
times, it is far more readable and
moving than most novels.
R. McCuaig
Private Eye
Holiday with Murder. Glyn Carr.
Collins. 17s. Dotty crowd of tourists
with someone for (nearly) every taste:
sinister priest; oomphy archaeologist;
Elder Brother of Jehovah's Host;
retired naval captain; Great Big Bear
(actor-producer) of a detective. Nicely
done Majorcan background. Murder
itself not central, but brisk pace and
dialogue get you in. Recommended.
* * * *
The Scarf. Francis Durbridge.
Hodder and Stoughton. 15s. 6d. A
girl is strangled near small English
country town. Scarf, as weapon, is clue
to presumed killer. Blackmail follows
and more attempted murder. Pace
slick, dialogue weak, motivation strong.
Plot not for slow-witted: complicated,
too many red herrings. Clue-hunters’
choice.
* * * *
The Adventure of the Christmas
Pudding. Agatha Christie. Collins.
15s. 6d. Six stories, five with Hercule
Poirot. An unevenly mixed pudding:
nicely spiced at its best —in “The
Dream” — with an indigestible patch—
in “The Under-Dog*'—and the rest
so-so. Curate’s egg.
* * * *
A Rocket for the Toff. John Creasey.
Hodder and Stoughton. 15s. 6d. In
Raffles tradition, the unchangeable
Toff steps in when his airport doctor
friend takes care of girl knocked down
by trained Alsatian while waiting for
fiance. Background: revolutionary
car shenanigans. Plot creaky, dia-
logue stereotyped, action thin. But
as Creasey is a top seller, we tried it
on a donna who reports: “Hair-raising
story; tremendous suspense; keeps you
sweating.” One woman’s meat . . .
* * *
Ready Revenge. Catherine Arley.
Collins. 15s. 6d. Crime and weapon
are very cleverly conceived, but not
so the rest of the story. Money-grub-
bing wife marries bumbler when she’s
got rid of first husband. New sister-
in-law gets on her tail. Story told
by four characters. Terribly contrived,
characters mere puppets. Lacks drive.
Pretty thin.
Nero
BOOKHUNTER
Dept. “D” Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
tee only if successful.
~F6'oiTT£ouT~
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.


Business, Rollery, Etc.
A Case for Free Competition
pREE competition in Austra-
lian industry and com-
merce, with considerable modi-
fication of tariff protections
(which may shelter much waste
and inefficiency) and elimina-
tion of restrictive trade prac-
tices (which may prop up ex-
cessive prices and shelter
mediocre service), might yet be
found to be the only near-
certain way of getting the
nation’s import bill and export
income into equilibrium.
The continuing run-down in
Australia's overseas reserves, to
meet the continuing deficits
arising from excess of imports
over exports, springs from
forces a good deal deeper than
can be reached by such merely
piecemeal correctives as the
present credit-squeeze or de-
valuation of the currency or
import licensing. These correc-
tives can do little more than
merely choke off in a tem-
porary way some of the effects
of fundamental errors in the
nation's utilisation of its re-
sources ; they cannot remove
the errors themselves or fore-
stall the further damage that
the errors can breed.
Arguably, the most conspicu-
ous of these fundamental errors
is the exclusion of free com-
petition from the conduct of
the nation's business, this being
the factor which by its very
nature could do much to ensure
an end to lopsided, wasteful
and inefficient use of the
nation’s labor, capital and
materials. It is also the factor
which, allowing imports to
force quality and efficiency (or
extinction) on local competi-
tors, would do much to chan-
nel Australian endeavor into
fields where it is well placed to
prosper, and also to bring Aus-
tralian production costs and
selling prices into line with
those of other countries.
The run-down in overseas
reserves will sooner or later
have to be eliminated either by
increasing export income or by
reducing export expenditure—
or, ideally, by a measure of
both. Methods of achieving
either objective are not likely
to be easy or popular, but,
buying being much more an
internal affair than selling, it is
generally accepted that reduc-
tion in the volume of demand
for imports might be much
more easily achieved than ex-
pansion in the volume of
demand for exports.
Displacement of imports by
making things ourselves can
only be beneficial to the Aus-
tralian economy, over-all, if
there is discriminating develop-
ment of industry to take the
place of imports and positive
discouragement of industry
which, by absorbing too dis-
proportionate a share of the
nation’s labor force and capital
funds, hinders this policy. It is
arguable that there is no evi-
dence of any discriminating
"I’m facing facts, gentlemen, and think We are in for
a prolonged trade recession."
policy having been followed in
the past, when local industrial
development has been counted
as the answer to an adverse
balance of payments—and cer-
tainly, though there has been
import saving, the nation's
aggregate demand for imports
has continued to rise.
Deflation of demand by
weapons such as the present
credit squeeze has a value
where, as here, wage determina-
tions and hire purchase credit
have boosted heavy spending
on current consumption, with
consequent raising of costs,
discouragement of production
for export and encourage-
ment of demand for imports--
but deflation hits both indus-
trial development (even dis-
criminating development) and
living standards, and, while
cutting demand, does not deal
with the root causes of excess
demand.
of the Austra-
currency could tempor-
arily ease the balance of pay-
ments position—imports would
be dearer to us, our exports
would he cheaper to the buyers
of them. But the inflationary
pressures making devaluation
necessary could be expected to
re-assert themselves promptly
and beget demands for further
devaluation, unless there were
comprehensive anti-inflationary
measures to supplement it.
Import control by licensing,
the device which appears to
have most advocates in Austra-
lia at present, operates as a
tariff to encourage local manu-
facture of the prohibited
imports—and local manufac-
turers, given this absolute pro-
tection. are thus enabled, when
exporting is a most vital
national need, to outbid ex-
porters for scarce production
factors and to pass on the
excess costs to domestic con
sumers, a further inflationary
pressure. So the expedient of
import licensing, as economist
Mr G. D. Chislett put it to a
manufacturers’ symposium in
Melbourne last week, results tn
a most inefficient allocation <>f
our scarce resources.
Mr Chislett. who is economist
to the Australian Woolgrowers'
and Graziers’ Council, came to
the conclusion that the only
way to ensure most efficient
use of Australian resources in
a free enterprise economy (this
to lead to equilibrium between
imports and exports) was “to
allow competition to flourish
in an atmosphere as devoid ot
controls as possible, always
remembering that ’controls'
applies to those < set up by
private enterprise as well as by
public authorities.”
“Provided the climate is
sufficiently competitive,” Mr
Chislett said, “the inter-relation
of supply and demand will
work towards the elimination
of distortions in the employ-
ment of our limited resources
and, at the same time, direct
their flow into uses where pro-
ductivity is highest... A good
deal of the present dislocation,;
with its accompanying waste of
resources, can be blamed on
the failure of the price mechan-
ism to give a true indication
of the relative demand for each
specific article and service, be-
cause it has not been allowed
to operate properly.
“The price mechanism is the
only indicator which a very
large number of the smaller
businesses have as a guide to
the direction in which develop-
ment should proceed, and now]
that we have been forced to a
more realistic attitude to the
availability of resources, they]
are finding that they have been
led into uneconomic projects. ’
Advocating the introduction;
of a selective import policy
designed to eliminate th e
growth of uneconomic industry]
here. Mr Chislett emphasised
that to be really effective com-
petition must come from a
quarter outside the control of
those who must meet it —m
short, from imports. To the
question as to how imports can
perform this function when
Australia is already experienc-
ing an excess of imports over
the nation's ability to pay, Mr
Chislett's answer is that “we do
not require the pressure of
imports to bear down on all
economic activity in this coun-
try. hut rather to be used to
check the growth of the weeds,
so allowing the main crop to
flourish on the available re-
sources which will be enriched
by the addition of those re-
leased from the uneconomic
growth . . . There must be an
end to the thin smearing of our
scarce resources over a practic-
ally unlimited field, to be fol-
lowed by a concentration on
those activities in which we
possess advantages.”
Tn another context. Mr Chis-
lett made this point: “To
have faith in the future of one's
country does not necessarily
entail throwing care to the
winds and proceeding to
develop in any and every direc-
tion simultaneously. We are
not so richly endowed that we
will not experience the same
growing pains as other dynamic
economies. Instead of vague
terms about ‘maximum rate of
growth,’ we must think in terms
of making the best use of all
available resources with a view
to building soundly and main-
taining a rising standard of
living. We should not blithely
assume that if we push on with


-'development’ that a rise in the
standard of living’ will result,
[There is more to the standard
Lf living than the mere pro-
Lferation of material goods,
nnd there appears to be con-
Tderable scope on this score
aor a diversion of resources
y way from personal consump-
Ton into more durable invest-
ment, which would represent a
seal contribution towards
achieving an internal balance
>oetween the demand for and
j.upply of resources.
tijr • i . . n * - f i,
If we wish to trade with
Ihe rest of the woild and we
must in older to raise and
maintain our standard of
iiving—then the more nearly
costs within Australia match
costs without, the more success-
'ul we will be in our inter-
national exchange. To ap-
nroach this parity entails the
creation of highly competitive
conditions within the economy
and the exposing of Australian
industry to the influence of
overseas competition.”
It is Mr Chislett’s view that,
as industry here avoids over-
seas competition by recourse
to tariffs and internal restrictive
trade practices, legislation
aimed at freeing it from private
controls and complete re
appraisal of existing tariff pro-
tections are both essential,
“If our industry, both prim-
ary and secondary, is to be
sound, it appears reasonable
that added restraint in protec-
should be exercised with a
v j ew ( 0 limiting the demand
j or iesources a level which
win ensure stability of employ-
ment at a b ou t full employment
level, together with stability of
prices at about world parity
level. There is no crisis ; at the
worst we have only to live with-
in our means, carefully using
them to best advantage."
L.B.
Beach Sands end Australian Engineering
From I. H. HERBERT
Tn Australia it is a simple
matter to separate the black,
metalliferous beach-sands from
the white quartz-sands. Only a
few weeks ago, while on vaca-
tion near Southport in Queens-
land, I was able to make this
separation with tweezers.
The problem of commercial
separation of those valuable
black grains isn't a simple
one. The problem is com-
pounded because this is an in-
stance where it is not possible
to import foreign “know-how."
As a matter of fact, Australia
is probably the leading pro-
ducer and outsiders turn to us.
One of the continuing pro-
ducers is National Minerals
Pty, Ltd. This company is of
particular interest in that it had
the initiative and the skilled
personnel to build a piece of
equipment which is attracting
attention throughout the world.
The principles of mineral
separation are simple. It is a
question of utilising the differ-
ence in specific gravities be-
tween the black (rutile, zircon)
sands and the quartz, and, fur-
ther, to separate the rutile and
zircon by utilising variations in
other physical properties.
Minerals planned
a barge or dredge which
would handle huge volumes of
sand quickly, with simple
equipment which could be
easily looked after by the labor
available.
In most beach-sand opera-
tions the raw sand is brought
into the processing system by
suction-pumps, piped over long
or short distances to the initial
processing on shore. The first
short-cut introduced by
National was to build the
dredge with a dragline and
bucket. By this mechanical
system, huge quantities could
be hauled directly into the
processing system which was
installed in the barge itself.
/~\nce in the dredge the sand is
'"■"'quickly washed and screened
and is pumped up to spiral
separators. Here again we find
some ingenious home - made
engineering which is effective
and so beautifully simple that
it is breathtaking. The separa-
tors are made of old truck-
tyres, split in half around the
circumference, cut in one place,
and then mounted in a descend-
ing spiral. The descending
slurry separates naturally with
the black sand taking the in-
side of the curve (because of
greater density) and the white
sand the outside. The black
sands are diverted from the
stream and exit through a
series of holes. The white
sand is pumped overboard.
The only maintenance re-
quired, aside from pumps,
motors, and fittings and valves,
is to watch the action of the
diverting-pins and to see that
exit holes are not plugged.
Only one mechanic and one
electrician are required as
technical personnel.
Coming back to the sand,
at National’s operation the
black concentrate is ordinarily
from 80-90 p.c. “pay-dirt.” Yet
the concentration of the raw
sand at the intake averages
only about 0.6 per cent, pay-
sand. Further, of the raw sand
taken in, only about 5 p.c. is
lost in process. These are
remarkable figures, and indicate
that this dredge can operate
profitably on very lean deposits.
That this example of Aus-
tralian enterprise and ingenuity
has not passed unnoticed is
evidenced by the inquiry of an
American company with beach-
sand interests in Florida,
U.S.A., into National Minerals’
barge Titian.
One of the most interesting
features of this story is that no
engineering drawings for this
dredge are available except for
the base. The parts that con-
stituted the base were pre-
fabricated in Newcastle by an
engineering firm and delivered
to National on the beach at
nearby Redhead. From there
the National people were on
their own.
The barge Titian was put into
service in February, 1960, with
great ceremony. It has lived
up to expectations. There will
probably never be a big market
for beach-sand dredges, but it
appears that this Australian one
will be a leader for some time
to come.
Do you know how
A “FAMILY
TRUST”
would benefit
your dependents?
//i
Your Estate, whether it consists of real
estate, a business, or investment holdings,
may attract much higher Death Duties than
you think—leaving far less than you
imagined for your beneficiaries.
Expert advice on Estate Planning, and the
setting up of a Family Trust, designed to
meet your personal requirements, can
result in appreciable savings through
reduced Tax and Death Duties, and help
conserve your assets, both during your
lifetime and afterwards.
Appointment of the Company as Trustee
of the Family Trust ensures competent
counsel and management of all matters by
specialists—at moderate charges.
Why not examine, without delay, the advan-
tages of such an arrangement—in a
confidential discussion of your financial
affairs?
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St, Melbourne, C.l.
20 O’Connell St., Sydney.
398-402 Queen St., Brisbane.
Also at Newcastle, Albury, Toowoomba,
Rockhampton, Townsville and Charleville.
IJTBSa'.&2JU


This HIGHER interest is
GOVERNMENT-GUARANTEED!
THE
SYDNEY
WATER
BOARD
£51151- %
Cash and Conversion
LOAN
FOR 7, 10 or 20 YEARS
MORE PR OH TABLE. Each £lOO that you invest in the
Loan will earn £5/15/- per cent, every year, compared with
the £3/5/- interest from a savings account.
COM PI 111 PRO IE( MON. The New South Wales
Government unconditionally guarantees your money inter-
est payments twice a year AND full repayment of your
investment alter 7, 10 or 20 years, as you prefer.
TRUSTEE SECURITY. The Loan is an Authorised
Trustee Investment in New South Wales, Queensland,
Western Australia and Tasmania.
CASH AND CONVERSION. Apart from cash applica-
tions, holders of Loan No. 145 (£5/5/- per cent., maturing
Ist April, 1961) are invited to convert to the new Loan
and earn higher interest without interruption.
APPLY at any office of the —
• Commonwealth Trading Bank;
• Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited;
• Bank of New South Wales;
• Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited;
Or through a Stockbroker;
Or at the Sydney Water Board offices.
THE SYDNEY
WATER BOARD LOAN
Underwritten bv:
Ernest L. Davis & Co. Ralph W. King & Yuill
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
Speculators Diary
T FEEL like the girl—if that’s
possible—in an advertise-
ment I once saw for a brand
of American cigarettes that was
coming out in a re - designed
packet. The ad. showed a
fetching girl sheltering
demurely behind a screen, cast-
ing off her clothes and saying,
“Pardon me while I change.”
Well, now this diary is appear-
ing in a new “packet,”
although I must take a parting
shot at the publishers for
finishing the last Observer
diary literally in the red.
Readers of The Bulletin
will be glad to know that I
don’t normally indulge in puns
like that. Instead I indulge in
a plunge here, a gamble there,
go short every now and again,
and generally like to keep my
money turning over fairly fre-
quently. Some weeks 1 make a
few pounds, sometimes I lose,
but I almost always manage
to have a lot of fun. I started
out on this stock-market caper
about 16 months ago with
£l5OO. Now I've amassed a
portfolio that has cost me
£2865 and £252 in cash, a
total of £3117 on that £l5OO
outlay.
I ately I've been in a bearish
mood. One reason for this
is that the credit restrictions
seem to be having no small
effect on employment and I
doubt if credit policy is likely
to be reversed at least until
Mr Menzies gets back from
London by which time things
could be getting quite rough.
But what really has been shat-
tering my confidence is the
growing list of new issues, also
stemming from the shortage of
credit, no doubt.
Bearishly. I can't help but
feel that all these new issues
are going to mean a lot of
selling in the next few weeks
and this can only mean sag-
ging prices. So when I saw
David Jones’ at more than
20s. just before the books
closed for the issue I sold my
100 and went short another
400 for good measure. The
100 I owned gave me a profit
of only £7, but within six days
I was able to buy back the
other 400, plus the 100 rights
for which I was responsible,
for a gain of another £35 (less
a £6 ss. dividend).
Having got in the shorting
mood, I also decided to sell 500
L. J. Hooker's at 10s. 6d. This
I did after reading the glow-
ing accounts of the company’s
interim report and new issue
announcement. In the midst of
all the cheering, though, no-
body seemed to work out
Hooker’s earning rate on
capital. Mr Hooker may still
have something up his resource-
ful sleeve, but it is hard to see
him finding the £1,000,000 or
so which would be needed next
year to maintain the 20 per
cent, dividend rate. So I figure
that I might be able to buy
back Hooker’s profitably ex-
rights at the end of the month.
Before I gambled on this bit
of shorting I did have the con-
fidence to make one genuine
purchase—2oo F. W. Williams.
T his is a stock I have been
meaning to buy for weeks and
1 felt 1 had better not dither
any longer as the annual report
should be out any day now. I
am banking on this report
showing a big profit increase.
F. W. Williams is still known
mainly as a stock-and-station
supplier, but in fact most of
its profits now come from its
half interest in the local Sisal-
kraft companies and also from
the half interest in Bates, the
multi-wail paper-bag people.
So I bought 200 F. W.
Williams for an outlay of £275.
This leaves me with £lO5 in
cash after including the David
Jones' juggle and I am still
short 500 Hooker's at 10s 6d.
Details of transactions since
March 7 are:
SOLD
500 David Jones at
20/3 £496
500* L. J. Hooker at
10/6 £269
BOUGHT
200 F. W. Williams
at 27/- .. .. £275
400 David Jones at
16/6 £338
100 David Jones rts.
at 4/7 .. .. £24
* Sold Short
The shares I now hold, all
of which have been bought
in the last three months, are:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Total Per rent
Shares Company Cost Share Price
-’OO Antill R. £123 12/- 13/9
100 Motels of A. 145 7/- 8/-
100 Pick-Me-Up 114 81/6 83/-
400 Hunt Bros. 100 7/9 7/9
400 Wattvl 149 7/3 9/6
50 G. E. Crane 280 110/- 110/-
200 Meriea 04 0/2 6/9
200 Steel Mills 113 11/- 12/-
300 Stocks Hold-
ings deferred 127 8/3 8/-
200 Tom Piper 235 23/- 24/-
400 Pioneer Con-
crete 334 16/3 17/-
400 Qld. Brewery 221 10/9 11/3
200 Hornibrook 234 23/- 22/6
200 Par bury
Henty 174 17/- 17/6
200 F. W.
Williams 275 27/- 27/6


Shows
Divorces and Horses
Divorce having been very much on
ywright Arthur Miller's mind for some
e, there is scope in “The Misfits,’’ his
: film script, to speculate a little as
m
to how much the issues or
divorce are paralleled in the
cruel and savage roping of
j horses which comes as the film’s
aax.
filler is much too skilful and scrupul-
. a craftsman for there to be any pat
1 obvious fable in the fate whicn
alls these horses at the hands of a
ich of Nevada drifters in the desert
side Reno, three men and a divorcee
□ is casting around for bearings in an
pty world of unbelonging.
daybe these horses ripped out of their
sh and handsome freedom by ropes
ich near-strangle them and bring them
impotence are symbols of the de-
uctiveness and cruelty which, as Miller
s it, marriage can give to its prac-
oners. The liberation of the horses
the end, where sympathy gets the
ter of fierce necessity, could in a
se be Miller’s wish for and belief in
edom for all who are so hideously
i that they cannot live as they are
de to live.
Vlaybe not. At all events, this is the
ist interesting point for discussion to
erge from a film which is rather slow
d boring in its first half, where the
ifters get acquainted in a faintly
royanesque way, and quite gripping in
; second half where all four of the
ifters have their souls tested by the
rial round -up of the horses for
ughter, and start hating each other at
rious pressure.
Director John Huston, always a master
his use of camera and cutting,
ough the tight integrity of his thought
;ms to have loosened somewhat over
e last 10 years, excels in the action
mes in the wild stone of the stark
back country. There are times,
rly, too, where he overcomes the burden
too much buzzing dialogue to give the
m life —as in the stumbling nonsense
at the drunken characters get up to
len they return “home” after a rodeo
id beano.
Marilyn Monroe, whose best gifts are
ose of a comedienne, slants them well
lough towards drama at most times
give real poignancy to the bewilder-
ent and lostness of the divorcee Clark
Gable, as a seedv sort of Casanova of the
wilds, has more yackety-yack dialogue
to deal with than in any three of his
previous films, and, rushing a good deal
of it, he is occasionally a bit hard to
understand, and often rather monotonous
in inflection, even when he can be under-
stood. Eli Wallach is above reproach in
his acting, as a fellow who both likes to
live pretty sentimentally in his own past
while living with mean ruthlessness of
mind in the present. Montgomery Clift,
a rodeo casualty with a touch of pensive-
ness and tenderness that neither of the
other two men characters would know the
meaning of, complements them admir-
ably. (At Sydney Regent.)
LINDSEY BROWNE
“THE GRASS IS GREENER”
“THE RAT RACE”
In “Grass” (Sydney State) Sydney's
first and most extravagantly beautiful
world-class model, Margaret Vyner, and
her actor husband are the scenarists for
the last stand of the British aristocracy
in a few rooms of their ancient mansion
against invading American tourists, while
in “Rat” (Sydnev Prince Edward) two
young invaders of New York light in a
cheap room lor their right to remain
there.
One felt it slightly more pleasant to
struggle with Debbie Reynolds and Tony
Curtis for a foothold in New York than
to wonder whether Deborah Kerr (some-
what like Margaret Vyner, but without
that orchid complexion) would stay with
her lordly Cary Grant or go off with
American millionaire Robert Mitchum.
After all, there was something new in
Curtis losing his beautiful set of saxo-
phones to a group of confidence men
giving him a fake audition ; and there was
something more exciting in Debbie Rey-
nolds retaining her virtue by hook or by
crook against a gorilla of a call-girl
operator than in Miss Kerr losing hers
and having it fought for in a phony duel
in the Long Gallery.
But each to his taste ; both plays are
nicely colored presentations, one of an
English mansion, the other of New York
slums, one of English upper-class im-
morality, the other of New York lower-
class virtue.
R.McC.
ART
SAM FULLBROOK
Sam Fullbrook is showing 25 oils on
canvas at Brisbane's Moreton Galleries,
a record of observations in the Kim-
berleys.
Fullbrook has a virile and refined color
sense. This desolate country of immense
distances, of loneliness, of hostility that
can kill a man in a day of thirst, supplies
the raw material with a color range
mainly in the red end of the spectrum.
The artist has two ways of handling it
all; he puts it on in an individual fashion,
broad slabs of paint, crimson, red-
orange (a lovely warm tone), bright green,
deep brown, fawn, grey and glaring
white, using them in large mosaics with
sharp contours and no merging or
fusion, in wide bands, cubes and triangles,
mostly in flat decorative patterns in
glaring light. The designs are simple ;
so smoothly painted that brushwork is
unobtrusive. It is curious how the three-
dimensional landscape of limitless dis-
tance comes up out of this apparent
flatness, as in “Sleeping Woman.”
In his alternative style Fullbrook is
often too melodramatic ; of course, the
temptation is there. But the hills at
twilight bubble up volcanically as they
did primevally at the birth of the land:
“Red Hills” and a miniature of this
apparently worked up form, the sketch,
“Romance No. 1,” “Death in the After-
noon,” a rather moving thing. These are
conventional in technique.
Fullbrook's real and genuine sensuous
experience is best expressed in the glaring
light, the red plains, the crimson furnace
of the sky in this dry desolate land, as
in “The Prospector,” a splendid picture,
“Man with Kangaroo,” a cleanly drawn,
posterish but happy thing, “The Stock-
man,” striking in its simplicity and
authority. To my mind the picture of the
show is “Bamboo Creek,” a very clever
painting in the best sense because the
apparently flat tones fill out into a clump
of three-dimensional trees in perspective
—a picture easy to live with.
J. V. DUHIG
EASTER EXHIBITION
In point of time one begins the Easter
Show at Sydney Macquarie Galleries
with George Lambert whose portrait
head has great authority.
Dobell’s “Study” is an exercise in
technique rather than a major work.
The subtlety and delicacy of the brush-
work are refined almost to evanescence.
Lloyd Rees’s more conventional land-
scape, “Italian Towers,” has firmness
and solidity, balanced by delicacy of
color and treatment. Here is one painter
represented at his best. Not so Elaine
Haxton who shows “Paradise Beach”
as Dufy would have seen it.
David Strachan is a painter who has
impressed in the past with a grave, al-
most melancholy, lyricism. His “Still
Life With Wattle” is a curiously reserved
work, which compels a second and a
third view without, however, disclosing
anything more. One might turn expec-
tantly to Donald Friend for candor and
anecdote, but his “Townsville” is disap-
pointing. Justin O’Brien uses the same
glowing colors to greater effect in his
strong and carefully composed “Hill
End Interior.”
R D.


Dated Plays
What do we mean when we say that
a play has dated? Can we fairly apply
the term to such works as Somerset
THEATRE
Maugham’s “The Con-
stant Wife” (Comedy
Theatre, Melbourne)
and Oscar Wilde’s “The
Importance of Being Earnest” (Union)?
To this reviewer the test is the relation
of the author to his characters and situa-
tions. Take Maugham’s handling of
Constance: could she enter into an affair
with a man other than her husband with
a free conscience? That is precisely what
Maugham has her do at the play’s con-
clusion.
But despite involved discussion of
marriage ethics mainly from an economic
point of view', Constances’s action seems
completely out of character. Maugham
poses as a most unconventional moralist.
He may have unconventional ideas on
extra-marital relationships but he cer-
tainly does not divulge them here, and
his shock tactics at the end seem based
on nothing but whim.
Despite this, the play afforded John
Sumner another opportunity to prove
he is probably Melbourne's most effi-
cient producer. Googie Withers as Con-
stance revealed an impressive talent for
sophisticated comedy but in many scenes
she tended to overstate in irritating
fashion.
Oscar Wilde has never been short of
revivals, but today his unreal characters
caught up in unreal complications have
a decidedly diminished attraction for
many. When Wilde looked at life he may
have come up with brilliant epigrams but
he never seemed quite to know what to
do with them and they usually stick out
like sore thumbs. And the Union Theatre
Repertory company, despite a few brave
efforts, rarely convinced that they knew
any better what to do with them.
“BIRD WITH A MEDAL”
The Sydney writer Ru Pullan is not
a journalist, but in gathering material
for this play (Little Theatre, Melbourne),
he interviewed juveniles, checked press
cuttings and police records, and joined
in the night beat in patrol cars.
He tells us nothing more than we
have come to expect from the pen of the
typical honest, observant pressman. Like
him he never really succeeds in getting
behind the headlines, but he has raised
a burning social issue from the printed
column to the stage. What he presents
is the fate of a working girl who has
run away from an unhappy home into
the arms of the bodgie-widgie set, typi-
fied by the loutish Col Hogan, anything
but the cliche delinquent despite the
side - burns and motor - bike minus
silencer.
The play's three acts take place in
the girl’s boarding-house room, which
enables Mr Pullan to further illuminate
his theme by showing how she reacts to
the other residents. He is human and
experienced enough to realise that there
are more tones to any picture than sheer
black and white and his characters are
each given a measure of justification for
their offences.
But when the stiffest challenge to the
playwright comes, in the concluding act,
Mr Pullan is ill-equipped to meet it.
He resolves nothing really by ending it
all in the stabbing of the chief delinquent
by a neurotic, mother-obsessed, flower-
loving colleague, the play's most artifi-
cially contrived character. His point
might be that evil begets evil. But he
hardly needed to introduce a murder to
demonstrate this.
Peter Randall and James Inglis com-
bined on a production which coped
better with the mechanical problems of
external realism than the human ones
of motivation. Marjorie Archibald’s
portrayal of the wayward girl’s landlady
was most impressive in its fluctuations
in mood, while Lyndell Rowe as the
widgie-in-the-making put commendable
spirit and a rare expression of injured
innocence into a part which could easily
have descended to the stereotype.
“BYE BYE BIRDIE”
This musical at Melbourne Her
Majesty’s Theatre, book by Michael
Stewart, music by Charles Strouse, and
lyrics by Lee Adams, purports to satirise
the Rock generation, its commercial ex-
ploitation, and teenage tendencies in
modern American society, but as its heart
is tender and its head anything but ration-
ally angry its success is on other levels.
The story concerns the promotion of
a sort of 20th century primitive, Conrad
Birdie, the vigor of whose hip gyrations
is matched only by the energy of his
vocal chords.
Behind Birdie's success looms the
youthful entrepreneur Albert Peterson.
Albert entered the Rock business with
girl-friend Rose Grant to raise funds to
complete a college degree to equip him-
self for teaching English. Once involved,
Albert found that the more money he
made the more bills he acquired. His
girl walks out on him —to return, of
course, in the concluding scene.
Woven in and out is a number of
hilarious sketches of American family
life, a fantastic scene in which Conrad’s
TV appearance on the Ed Sullivan show
is sabotaged, and several spectacular
dance routines. The direction by im-
ported American Michael Thoma is
lighteningly deft and imaginative, and
he has managed to extract from his pre-
dominantly teenage cast some delightfully
spontaneous performances, especially in
the group dancing and choruses.
Some of the production gimmicks came
off spectacularly, in particular the use
of motion camera projected images of
Conrad swooning, Conrad gyrating, Con-
rad vocalising and so on.
Frank Buxton as Albert turned in f
chaotic performance, beautifully moduf
ating between the slick organisation man
the regressive mother’s boy tyrannise!
over by his old woman, and the insecun
lover. The other American import, Pat
ricia Finly, proved a delightful foil t(
the antics of her Albert, and never mor
so when this required her to reveal he
very considerable dancing talents.
A. S. JORGENSEN
“MISS LONELYHEARTS”
Nathaniel West had, as an author ot
novelettes, a touch of genius that escaped
more highly respected novelists, and the
Teichmann version of “Miss Lonely,
hearts” at Sydney Ensemble Theatre
smacked like a kiss with the force and
tension of his (and Hayes Gordon's)
presentation.
For, as the young reporter pitched by
a cynical editor (James Scullin) into a
column of advice to the lovesick, the
fortunate Reginald Livermore sustained
many enviable entreaties from his pure
and straightforward girl-friend (Lorraine
Bayly), was allowed to attack with waves
of surging passion his ravishingly gowned
editor's wife (Joan Franklin) and, having
rejected them both for the dream of
doing good for suffering humanity, was
seduced by a forthright slut who caml
to lay her grievances before him (Patricia
Jones). It was too much for one man's
plate ; there was satisfaction, after he
refused the slut a second helping and
she framed him for rape, in his being
shot by her crippled husband (Henry
Banister).
In the exposure of the well-intentioned
young man to the full batteries of a
virago from the slums much of the book s
sordor has been omitted, but with what
is left Miss Jones made a man-hungry
slattern fearsomely correct in gesture, if
not always sure in intonation, while as
the cripple Henry Banister reinforced
with a querulous whine and a club foot
the menace of faith betrayed ; there was
nothing done better than his entry to the
bar-room with his pitiful assumption of
being a man among men.
The settings, of boxes like blocks re-
arranged by the actors talking themselves
into the next scene, should share honors
with the actors’ conjuration of scenes:
when Miss Franklin was amorously
wrestling with Mr Livermore outside the
door of the husband's flat, you knew it
wasn’t there while you writhed with
apprehension lest Mr Scullin might
open it.
“THE EXCEPTION AND THE
RULE.” “PLUCK YOUR HARPS,
CHERUBS”
The desert trek with which Sydney
University Players (at St. Joseph’s Hall)
led up to the court scene of Brecht's
“Exception” was a series of w'oodenly
algebraic symbols after which the court-
room equation was a pleasant surprise,
vivaciously stated by the judge (Barry
Bates), that the merchant (John Clifton-
Bligh) was right in shooting his coolie
(Don Magarey) because he had so ill-
treated him that he had every reason to


>iose that the coolie meant to murder
io luck Your Harps,” by Sydney Uni-
t-ity Arts student Dennis Carroll, w'as
gauche three-act inquiry into the
vward problems of students. There
a good playacting girl (Veronica
-:ise) and a good hard-doer (Bruce
r jes). The entanglements of girls and
<s and boys and boys were exploded
ithe suicide of the nice girl; then,
to the textbooks, the main party-
ir (Ken Lawrence) set about making
the characters realise themselves,
ire is always something embarrassing
jut these mental strippings, and it is
re so when characters and playwright
n’t sure whether it is for better or
worse. Anyway, Mr Carroll has this
ch over his characters: as a playwright
.will be able to rise on stepping-stones
their dead selves to better things.
[?]AWSON”
rhe New Theatre presented the old
ies by Oriel Gray, first done in 1944,
Sydney Waterside Workers’ Theatre,
these dramatised stories, linked by
nry Lawson (Len Grant) talking
eetly to his mates (Neville Swanson
d Roger Milliss), “Arvie Aspinall’s
arm Clock” was a failure because it
pends on the author’s last word, about
; dead boy’s eyes looking up at the
ling "where God ought to be” —and
s was omitted. “Steelman and his
pil" wasn’t much more successful.
Jean Blue was effective as the washed-
t country wife in “Water Them
:raniums,” and the immensely tall Reg
ellard as Oracle in “The Man Who
irgot” and "Passing Round the Hat,”
file Golda Meehan as a country bar-
lid and Denis Doonan as the swaggie
“Dead Dingo,” the story of the poker-
iver who lost the dog he didn’t own,
ve slightly better than cold readings.
What was remarkable was how the
irit of Lawson came through these
umbnail-dipped-in-tar presentations of
m, and through presentations of his
d paper as the paper that serialised
e Communist Manifesto there have
en much better and more Australian
rials than that syndicated trash in The
jlletin since then ; still, the point was
cely taken.
RONALD McCUAIG
HEATRE IN QUEENSLAND
No sooner is the sting out of the tail
the Queensland summer than Little
leatre productions spring up everyw-
here. No doubt they are playing
venue-safe for their first plays ; it is
to be hoped that all groups become more
adventurous as the season develops.
The University Dramatic Society began
its year with “The Importance of Being
Earnest,” a production having what is
often lacking in this group's efforts, a
highly disciplined cast ; no indecision, no
lack of concentration —all credit to the
producer, Bryan Nason. Why, then,
didn’t the play sparkle? Wilde himself
must accept some of the blame ; his
technique of creating an aphorism simply
by reversing a platitude becomes at times
tiringly obvious.
Lack of money was also a hindrance ;
the set was a dispiriting affair of moth-
eaten curtains and slum furniture, and
Jack's costume in Act I was both seedy
and shapeless. Lady Bracknell would not
have been silent on that point. But ulti-
mately, the weakness was in the failure
of the acting to achieve a uniform style.
Thus Sally Anne Kerr conveyed Cecily’s
“country simplicity” in what were largely
naturalistic terms, rather than by means
of an obvious artifice.
ROBERT JORDAN
"REBECCA” REVISITED
Daphne Du Maurier, having received
the huge payment for film rights of her
novel "Rebecca,” was ill-advised to
cash in on it again by adapting it for
the stage. The film “Rebecca” was that
rare thing, a movie better than its
literary point of origin, and Sir Laurence
Olivier, Judith Anderson and director
Hitchcock brought to it a combination
of talents it hardly deserved, until scene
after scene of the ersatz Bronte book
became terrifyingly visual.
Seeing the play (and the fault lay not
in Brisbane Arts Theatre director, Ross
Barber, but in the author) the whole
action of the book, spread of misty land-
scape, boatshed, mysterious manor, had
to be reduced to “talk-about” inside
Manderley itself; worst of all, traitor
to her own original plot, Miss Du
Maurier robbed the play of the spectacu-
lar Gotterdammerung ending book and
movie had led us to expect.
RHODA FELGATE
Fourteen years ago, at a time when
many people would consider Twelfth
Night Theatre to have been in its golden
age, one of its most popular light plays
was John Van Druten's “I Remember
Mama,” starring Rhoda Felgate, founder
of the group.
This year, Miss Felgate chose to bow
out of active management of the Theatre
in a revival of the play. It is a thin
piece ; family memories are hard to
spin out over two and a half hours, their
texture soon cloys, their supposed uni-
versality too insignificant to afford a
real theme. Yet I doubt if anyone at
the four-night season would have wanted
it otherwise. Rhoda Felgate has long
been our first lady of Queensland Theatre,
and in a sphere that apparently thrives
on artificiality, exhibitionism and false
emotion, she has remained, except when
playing Lady Macbeth, simple, un-
theatrical, serene.
VAL VALLIS
Estab'ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
!» .
jACKbON 4
O'S CL LIVX\
LTD
m
R M
TRA
LF
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney. London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MA NU FACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS A OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
"JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND
INSURANCE
Co. Ltd.
Largest Australian Coy.
Conductin" all classes ol
FIRE,
MARINE &
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney
Branches and Agencies
throughout the World.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2 fr
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6


PxuiJi isi lA c
jFuiurr
ml
& y
m
Reconstruction of Queensland's
Townsville-Mount Isa railway to its full £30-million
plan was one of the really big national decisions
of last year.
The Commonwealth Government's agreement
to underwrite Queensland on a £20-million loan
for the purpose, with the State finding the remainder
from its own resources, marks a major step forward
in Australia's development.
This is the very type of large linking project
we need. And we need it for even more reasons
than the doubling of Mount Isa's rich production
and the triangulation of that fabulous mine with
its new copper smelter at Townsville and its coal
sources at Bowen.
The extra merit of the line is in the general
opening it will assure for the northlands; in the
further mineral discoveries it will serve, with
the Mary Kathleen uranium field as a classic case
in point; and in its benefits to those beef cattle
lands to which it will stand in stronger chain.
For the Mount Isa Company, turning as it is to
increased copper production to meet the changing
accents in world demand, the reinforced line will
be an incentive to go ahead on the programme of
vast expansion to which it has been working.
By 1964. Mount Isa Mines undertakings expect
to have a combined annual export-earning capacity
of more than twice the amount this whole
reconstruction of railway is going to cost. In that
creation of export wealth is the national justification
for having the work properly and completely done.
The call now will be for quick re-laying and
equipping of the line. We have the engineering,
technical and labouring skills; and the internal
financing of this project is in itself a proof of the
faith w'e have in our own capacity to see it through.
While we are on the job, I w'ould like to see
a bold related move to strengthen the feeder
system of roads connecting cattle and mineral
areas that are out past the line.
Now is the time for it. “Action begets action.”
And there is still more wealth in the Australian
inland waiting to be won.
Q
////a
(Z3
f/.
7
Nobody Wanted
A " Goldmine”
By JOHN SCHOFIELD
T AST January anyone could have had the two-year-old fill
Magic Night for 2500gns. when she entered the sale-ring i
Sydney ; but the best offer was only 1300gns., and so the midges
already winner of one race, remained in the ownership of he
purchaser as a yearling, Mr A. F. Eastment, widely-knowz
Sydney builder.
And last Saturday Magic Night came with an amazin
run to win the £lO,OOO Golden Slipper Stakes at Rosehill (firn
prize £6915), and maintained the unbeaten record of the grea
sire, Star Kingdom (imp.), whose sons Todman, Skyline, Fitr
and Dandy and Sky High had won the four previous running
of this race.
Magic Night cost 2400gns. as a yearling. Probably sh
would have brought more but for her lack of inches. At ;
pinch she could be got under the bar at 14.2, but she has lengtl
and beautifully strong hindquarters, and from this she gets H
drive in galloping.
And why did Magic Night's owner want to get rid of her'
Simply because he had decided to temporarily retire from racing
People bought all the other horses but left him with the gold
mine!
CMar Kingdom (imp.) is a remarkable stallion, and Baramu
Stud, owned by Sydney solicitor A. O. Ellison, just a.
remarkable as a nursery.
From the first time Star Kingdom had representatives t(
race —in 1954-55 —he has headed the list of sires of two-year
olds. He has headed the general list as well.
Baramul is in the Widden Valley and was recently extendec
by the purchase of part of Widden Stud. Most of the top-clas;
winners by Star Kingdom were reared to racing age at Baramu
—horses like Kingster, Todman, Noholme, Skyline, Sky High
Concert Star.
And so Tulloch is to go on racing, despite his series of defeat!
** in Melbourne. Good luck to him, but the chance of making
him the first horse to win £lOO,OOO in Australia is disappearing
Now that it is proved that Tulloch can be beaten readily enough
there will not be any more “easy pickings'' for the grand little
horse.
IVTews comes from America that the Australian mare, Grey
Nurse, has produced a grey colt foal by Edmundo (imp.) at
King Ranch.
Grey Nurse is by Nizami (imp.) and was raced by the late
Mr F. W. Hughes and later went into Kooba Stud. In due
course King Ranch bought her, but before sending her to U.S.A.
it was arranged that she should be mated with Edmundo (imp.).
Grey Nurse was the best filly of her year and won the
V.R.C. Oaks, but she has not produced anything of her own
class. The mating with Edmundo (imp.) may prove the right one.
Grey Nurse descends from one of the best families in the
Australian and the New Zealand Stud Books. It is the Evening
Star family from which came Wakeful, Talking, and almost
as many classic, weight-for-age and top-class handicap horses
as there are top-class races in the calendars of both countries.
Tarwyn Park, a property in the Bylong Valley on the way
between Denman and Mudgee in N.S.W., is to be a horse
stud again.
The late Herbert Thompson, who bred thoroughbreds at
Oakleigh Stud in the Widden Valley for many years, operated
it, but because of illness transferred the stock to a new Tarwyn
Park near Penrith, which has since been dispersed.
New owners of the original Tarwyn Park are H. J. Howes
and Alec Terry. Mr Howes has had a stud for many years—
The Steading at North Richmond, near Sydney Mr Terry at
one time was manager for the late John McDougall of the
famous Lyndhurst Stud at Warwick (Q.) and more recently
has operated a stud on the Downs Country in Queensland.


Aborigines Snubbed in Sport
By GEORGE CRAWFORD
stralians should not for-
get the skill of colored
smen as the field of choice
as with the rapidly grow-
vhite population. Austra-
colored champions are
jally becoming fewer and
r. Promoters and organi-
do not seem to bother to
; for talent among the
ed people these days. This
great pity because colored
ipions always have been
crowd-pleasers the world
is strange, too, remember-
hat only a couple of years
Australian athletics officials
hat to rouse public interest
ed men were the only
;rs worth bringing here for
. The names of colored
rs like Jack Johnson, Joe
;, Henry Armstrong,
ng Siki, Archie Moore,
i Patterson will live for-
So will the names of
runners like Eddie Tolan,
Owens, Harrison Dillard,
i La Beach, McDonald
y and Herb McKenley.
,ored men have been great
lames in Australia’s boxing
ry. But today Johnny Jar-
and George Bracken are
mly colored men among
:op-flight boxers as public
ist in this branch of sport
ps lower and lower,
reminder of the popularity
colored sportsmen in
ralia came last year when
nslander Lionel Morgan
:d a place in the Australian
>y League team to contest
Vorld Cup series in Eng-
English and Australian
s acclaimed the selection
on the grounds that it
d stir public interest than
lorgan’s ability as a foot-
r.
e pioneers of the success
alored men in Australian
were the aboriginal
eters who toured England
168 under the captaincy of
les Lawrence, who was a
ber of the first English
to tour Australia. The
:s of the 14 aborigines who
to England on a sailing
were Mullagh, Cozens,
ley, Bullocky, Red Cap,
penny, Tiger, Shepherd,
-a-Dick, Peter, Sundown,
quito, Jim Crow and King
The team played 47
hes, winning 14, losing 14
drawing 19. In one match
penny sent down 10 overs,
l of which were maidens,
took nine wickets for nine
Mullagh scored 75 at
Lords and became the first
Australian to make more than
50 on the famous London Test
arena.
This was not Australian
aborigines’ only venture in big
cricket. In later years fast
bowlers Jack Marsh and Eddie
Gilbert became big names in
the game. Marsh played for
N.S.W. early this century and
took 24 wickets at a cost of
22.33 runs apiece. Gilbert
played for Queensland in the
1930 s and gained immortality
as one of only 15 bowlers to
dismiss the great Don Brad-
man for a “duck.”
Gilbert was a slightly-built
full-blooded aboriginal. He had
long arms which looked out of
proportion to his body. He
never took more than seven
strides to the wicket, but he
delivered the ball with tremen-
dous speed. He was fearsome
for the first three or four overs.
Gilbert said throwing boomer-
angs had helped him get speed.
Gilbert had a whippy action
and this caused critics to brand
him a “chucker.”
In first-class cricket for
Queensland, Gilbert took 73
wickets at 29.75 runs apiece.
These figures were remarkable
considering that he had to bowl
against such great batsmen as
Bradman, Bill Ponsford, Bill
Woodfull, Stan McCabe and
Victor Richardson.
A/Cany sport historians rate
aboriginal Charlie Samuels
the greatest sprinter Australia
has ever produced greater
even than world-famous Jack
Donaldson and Arthur Postle.
Samuels starred in the 1880 s.
He came from Dalby, Queens-
land, and always ran bare-
footed. Samuels visited Sydney
in 1886 to contest the 120-yard
Sir Joseph Banks Handicap—
the big professional sprint event
of the times. He attracted so
much interest that thousands
of men and women packed
steam-trams, cabs and carts
heading for the track at Mascot
Samuels won the event and the
thousands of people who
backed him showered him with
gold sovereigns. Samuels was
not interested in the sovereigns
He said, “All I want is a bridle
and saddle and to go back to
Queensland.”
Colored brothers Alec Wick-
ham and Harry Wickham, who
came from the Solomon
Islands, gained sporting im-
mortality in Australia. Early
this century Alec Wickham
made a world record high dive
of 205 feet at Little Rock, Vic-
toria. He also won the Aus-
tralasian 100-yard breaststroke
title in 1910-11 and the 100-
yard freestyle title in 1912-13.
Harry Wickham, a great swim-
mer, introduced the crawl
stroke to Australia and the
world. The stroke still is
known throughout the world as
the Australian crawl.
Australia has had many
great colored fighters. The
greatest of them w ; as Peter
Jackson. Jackson was born in
the West Indies in 1861, but
came to Australia as a child
and adopted Australian
nationality. Many boxing ex-
perts rate Jackson the greatest
heavyweight the world has pro-
duced although he did not win
the world title. He still is
referred to as the “Black
Prince.”
Jackson went to America in
quest of the title, but the title-
holder at the time, John L.
Sullivan, “drew the color line”
and refused to fight him. But
he fought a draw r with James
J. Corbett, who later took the
title from Sullivan. Corbett
recalled the fight on his death-
bed. He said : “Jackson could
do anything any mortal man
ever did in the ring with brain,
hands and feet. I held the
greatest ring warrior that ever
lived to a 61-round draw.”
Jackson was buried in Too-
wong Cemetery in Brisbane.
Over his grave is a bust of
Jackson the fighter and the
words: “This was a man.”
A mong other great Australian
** colored fighters were Old
Starlight, Jerry Jerome, Ron
Richards, Dave Sands, Jack
Hassen and Elley Bennett. Old
Starlight’s correct name was
Edward C. Rollins. He was
not Australian-born, but he
made Australia his home.
Old Starlight was one of the
most colorful personalities Aus-
tralian sport has known. He
had his first fight at the age of
34, won the European cham-
pionship at 44 and continued
to fight until he was more than
50. When Old Starlight won
the European championship,
Prince Edward of England,
who later became King Edward
VII, was so delighted that he
personally presented him with
a gold-topped malacca cane.
Old Starlight accepted many
fights under handicap condi-
tions. He was so good that
the conditions of some of his
fights were that he use only
one hand for punching.
Ron Richards of the 1930 s
was a very great fighter—prob-
ably the greatest counter
puncher Australia has pro-
duced. He was supreme in the
Australian middleweight, light-
heavyweight and heavyweight
divisions in his time. He pos-
sibly would have won the world
middleweight title if he had got
a chance. Richards’ greatest
victory was against American
Gus Lesnevitch. who later won
the world light - heavyweight
title.
Dave Sands and Elley Ben-
nett were great fighters in the
post-war years.
'""The Australian national foot-
J ball code has had great
colored players, but none better
than Doug Nicholls who starred
with the Northcote and Fitzroy
teams in Melbourne. Nicholls
also was a professional sprinter.
His speed on the football field
made him a great box-office
attraction. In the depression
days of 1931, Nicholls was
among the huge army of unem-
ployed. But he did not wish
to idle his time aw'ay. He
joined a travelling boxing show
and fought for a living.
With vast sporting experience
behind him Nicholls turned his
talents to helping youngsters
through a church organisation.
He became known as Pastor
Nicholls. He preached in
aboriginal missions. He spoke
of the game of life in football
terms and talks of fair play,
dishonesty and captaincy.
Northcote appointed him non-
playing coach. He was the
only man in the club whose
skin was not white. But the
players often said: “He is the
whitest man here.”
I have no doubt great cham-
pions still could be found
among our colored people if
promoters and organisers went
and searched for them.
A thought: Why wouldn't an
aboriginal in the outback,
accustomed to spear-throwing,
make a great javelin-thrower in
athletics?
Perhaps Australia has missed
many an Olympic champion in
that field.


LETTERS
An Australian View of South Africa
Sir
Peter Kelly's review of
Ambrose Ree v e s’s book,
“Shooting at Sharpeville” shows
little knowledge or understand-
ing of South Africa.
For some time now South
Africa has been a journalists’
paradise, and as long as the
world press keeps South
Africa’s domestic affairs in the
headlines, good sales of books
written by non-South Africans
about that country can be ex-
pected.
As an Australian who spent
the last eight years in South
Africa, travelled extensively
there, and employed 900
natives, I would like you to
bring my few- brief comments
to the notice of Peter Kelly
and your readers.
The Commission of Inquiry
into Sharpeville is referred to
as “abortive and face-saving.”
I am personally acquainted with
the judge who headed the Com-
mission, and have seen him in
the court-room as a prominent
Q.C. His integrity is beyond
question, and undoubtedly the
commission disclosed the facts
I would add here that the judi-
cial system in South Africa is
exemplary.
The atmosphere of the
natives gathered at Sharpeville
is described as "picnic.” It is
very seldom that any large
gathering, at the instigation of
agitators, is in a "picnic”
atmosphere. This applies
whether the gathering is of
black or white people.
It is stated that the South
African police clearly had no
reason for firing on the peace-
ful crowd. One of the major
tasks of the South African
police is the protection of
native lives. The natives are
still tribal people, and tribal
hatreds still smoulder, and
burn fiercely at some real or
imagined offence from another
tribe. In areas crowded with
members of different tribes,
particularly the Reef, tribal
fights are not uncommon, and
if not stopped by the police
would result in scores of deaths.
It is frequently the unenviable
task of six or eight white South
African police to break up a
tribal fight involving 200 or
more natives, and this with
little other use of firearms than
as a warning. If the South
African police wish to fire,
with or without good reason,
they have ample opportunities
other than Sharpeville. Death
of one or more policemen in
this manner is not uncommon,
but their duty was to protect
life, whether black or white.
It is stated that the native
people live in economic, geo-
graphic, religious and social
subjugation. This statement is
incorrect. The native who has
ability and willingness to work
can earn a good living. I em-
ployed native truck drivers who
earned more than my white
South African secretary. Any
restriction of movement is for
the benefit of the natives them-
selves, as will be mentioned
later. In actual fact natives
travel about a great deal, and
are the principal source of
revenue for the passenger trains.
Religious and social subjuga-
tion do not exist, and no com-
ment on this is required.
South Africa is referred to as
a police State. This statement
is as ridiculous as it is untrue.
I never heard a word of com-
plaint about the police by any
one of the hundreds of natives
whom I knew personally.
It is stated that the reference
books are a bureaucratic means
of enforcing obedience. The
principal purpose of the refer-
ence book is the control of
population in urban areas,
which is of more benefit to the
native than anyone else. The
“lure of the city'' has been the
downfall of many white people
in many countries, people more
intellectually developed than
the South African native. An
uncontrolled influx of people
into any urban area can lead to
housing shortages, poor living
conditions, poverty, prostitu-
tion and crime. If there is
ample work in a city, natives
from outside it will have no
difficulty in obtaining a permit
to seek work there. But if the
work is limited, surely it is
reasonable to employ those
people who already live in the
city. The problem of native
“juvenile delinquents” in big
cities has arisen from the un-
controlled influx in years gone
by.
As the native pays so little
tax (£1 10s. per year) what
objection can there be to his
having a receipt in his refer-
ence book? The administra-
tive costs of using any other
method would be out of pro-
portion to the tax received.
Can Peter Kelly tell us what are
the “other just as harassing
particulars” in the reference
book?
The majority of South
African natives are happy
people, and are not interested
in politics. They have their
own goals and ambitions,
which are not the same as
those of the white man. They
are a nation of people who at
the moment must be led, and
this is what the white South
African is doing. Chronologic-
ally the white and black have
equal title to the land of South
Africa. But surely the more
capable of the two should be
the leader, and can there be
any doubt that this is the white
man? Is there anyone in the
Western World who would like
South Africa led into a state
of chaos, poverty and tribal
warfare? I cannot believe that
there is, and so I appeal for
more understanding of South
Africa from people who have
been misled, and who have,
consequently, given little
thought to her survival. South
Africa is the last major bulwark
against Communism in Africa,
and this fact alone is of vital
importance to every person in
the free world.
A. F. C. HENDERSON
Toowong ( Qld .).
SYNTHETIC SOLES
Sir,
In a recent letter from
London, a fellow bomb-jockey
of the war years, now a
executive in a fellmongerin
business, reports a good an
steady trade in wool over th
last year with prices at J
sensible level, or, at leas
reasonably competitive wit
synthetics. However, of hide
and leather he cannot say th
same. Prices erratic, mone
being lost in the trade an
tanneries closed or closin
because of synthetic solin
competition.
“Do you cash travellers ’ cheques?”
G. C. VAUDRE
Willunga (S./L).
THE EVANGELISTS O[?]
SEX
Sir,
Re “Norman Lindsay” a
Douglas Stewart (B. l/3/’6l
I believe that most people agr«
that Norman Lindsay is 1
talented cartoonist, a con
petent artist, and a gifte
person in several other sphere
But I refuse to see Lindsay <
an evangelist of sex.
Sex is life. Its main purpoi
is the reproduction of ff
species, not the production <
nudes on canvas or in cemen
but in real flesh and blooi
Australia is much in need (
home-produced nudes of bol
sexes, of the last mentions
variety.
The truest evangelists of sc
are the people who produt
large healthy families, peop!
who are totally unimpressed b
Lindsay-style nudes or t
white-bottomed artist's model


i KVIr Stewart employed that
1--fashioned term “wowser”
ujbtless hoping to annihilate
ovone who dared disagree
rl;h him or Lindsay. As a
Utter of fact there seems to
b a strong Puritan streak in
bidsay and his admirer. Most
ridiusiasts about nudes and
Mure are dyed-in-the-wool
iiritans at heart, the very type
r go about shedding inhibi-
nns as a deciduous tree sheds
/.ves.
AArty sex evangelists are
rmewhat like the dreary and
rrnest Marie Stopes, who
oce upon a time set out to
jjich us all about the facts of
re. To get down to real Sex
K ew life not paint and canvas),
1 for one have found that
irty" types are much more
:eiined to frown or sneer at
:eundity, than are the much-
indemned “wowsers.” And
nat's fecundity but Sex at its
,ost vital.
E. CLARE
Rockingham ( W.A .)
THE ART OF SELF-
DEFENCE
it.
Frank Hyde's apologia in
itempted justification of pro-
ssional boxing is a repetition
: wiiat has been written many
Ties before. The aim in such
ontests is to injure by fair
neans, or if one can get away
lith it, foul. Butting, leaning
id “opening the eye" of an
pponent are some of the
ticks, the last-named being
nvored because it is not illegal.
The eye (really the brow) is
Jt by concentrating upon it.
he attacker is then described
y the commentator as “work-
lg" on his opponent's eye —to
eep the wound open and, of
ourse, bleeding. The victim,
linded by his own blood, be-
omes an easy target. In a
roadcast I once heard the
ommentator shout excitedly:
This is a glorious fight—both
len covered with blood!”
By all means let boys learn
o box in a sporting spirit. But
a the art of self-defence
“noble” if you like), boxing
till is a poor second to judo.
R. S. ADAMS
loseville (7V.5.B 7 .).
HITLER AND THE JEWS
fir,
In his review of W. L.
“The Rise and Fall of
he Third Reich” (B. 22/2/’6l)
M. H. Ellis makes the astound-
ng statement that Hitler hated
he Jews because “the Jewish
janking houses of Frankfort
vhich, as ordinary commercial
wnSr?
n*n
r
HI
mf/ M
tM i
ml
z*\
*
$
all
IffiVi
iff
A
Undergarments made from science s new Thermalon Fibre bring spectacular relief!
You wear Thermalon undergarments just like normal undergarments—and by wearing
them you fight your rheumatic troubles all day long. Soothing warmth will flow through
those painful parts of the body, because Thermalon creates Tribo-Electricity, a wonderful
natural force now harnessed by science to treat rheumatism and allied complaints.
Thermalon has been clinically tested and the reports by sufferers are truly amazing.
Mr. H.J. of Melbourne, VIC.:
"I found o prompt improvement
in muscular pains, common at
this time of the year. My wife
borrowed one of my vests and
also appreciated the comfort ond
relief."
"Since
buying the fhermalon under-
wear I honestly con say I have
received great benefits from
these garments. I am free from
aches and pains, 4 am free from
bronchitis & feel a new man,*'
Mrs. A.M.H. of Dulwich, S.A.:
"Please send another Thermolon
vest and pantee as last. I find
they have cured my trouble, but
I wish to keep on with Thermo-
Ion,"
This is the simplest way to fight your rheumatic pains—without medicine, ointment or
pills. Even if you've suffered for years, this latest scientific discovery will bring you
amazing relief. Convince yourself, send now for full details FREE to:
TFE MALON PTY. LTD., 1 7/cO ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
zu
SHAVE—FASTER, CLOSER
Anywhere . . Anytime
LORD RIAM
BATTERY POWERED
SHAVER
Yes. Wherever you may he and at any time . . .
HOME, OFFICE, TRAVELLING. HOLIDAYS . . . touch
the switch for the fastest, smoothest shave ever. Only
two 1.5 volt standard torch batteries give months of
easy shaving. MADE IN SWITZERLAND. Fully
guaranteed. Complete same day service.
Send for your LORD RIAM shaver NOW
PRICE ONLY
92/6
Complete with
Batteries.
POST FREE
,71
lc U T OUT —I*O S T N C
QUALITY APPLIANCES,
4Pi Hardy’s Chambers,
De Mestre Place, Sydney.
Please post at once LORD RIAM
shavers. Cheque/postal notes/money
order enclosed for £ : :
NAME
ADDRESS
Please print name and address in block letters.
o w
L
Money refunded if returned in 7 days.
wm
3&SF xv
> vX«
;<5??
&KK


transactions, had financed
many of the Communist deals
abroad.”
Hitler hated the Jews for
demagogic purposes and com-
pletely disregarded facts. Hit-
ler knew perfectly well that
Jews were in a very small
minority in German banking
It is not clear what Mr Ellis
means by his reference to
“Communist deals abroad.” If
he means the underwriting of
German - Russian trade, the
great non-Jewish German
bankers, von Schroeder, von
Finck. Reinhart, Abs. etc., were
the principal backers of
German-Russian trade during
the pre-war period, during Hit-
ler's regime when all Jewish
bankers were eliminated, and
indeed in the years since 1947
under Chancellor Adenauer.
It is just as well for the Jews
that there are no Jewish direc-
tors of the Commonwealth
Bank, which is now involved in
Australian-Chinese trade. Some
commentators might have said,
with equal disregard for the
facts, that Jewish bankers were
financing “Communist deals
abroad. ’’
(MRS) E. ROSENBERG
Asst. Secretary,
Jewish Council to Combat
Fascism and Anti-Semitism
Melbourne.
KANGAROO EXPORTS
Sir,
We refer to The Bulletin
of March 8, 1961. in which an
article appeared, headed “Kan-
garoos- Pest or Asset?”
Probably you were not aware
of the existence of our com-
mittee which was formed on
September I, 1960. under the
auspices of the Export Develop-
ment Group of New South
Wales to deal with the situation
which has been created by what
we may describe as vicious
propaganda.
We would like to make cer-
tain comments in relation to the
article referred to, in particular
to the paragraph dealing with
maggots.
You may, possibly, not be
aware that the worm which can
be found in kangaroos is known
as dipetalonena roeneri and
belongs to the same group of
worms as the heart worm of
dogs and beef nodule worm of
cattle and the filarial worm of
man.
Uni ortunately, unfair pub-
licity has misrepresented the
situation considerably, but, as
you rightly say. the harm has
been done, and. despite strenu-
ous efforts, we find it extremely
difficult to revive interest in
Western Germany at present.
Nevertheless our committee
is active and has approximately
38 supporting members which
we thought you would be in-
terested to know.
J. BENEDEK
Chairman. Australian
Kangaroo Meat Exporters
and Packers’ Committee
Sydney,
"WHAT IS XAVIER
HERBERT?”
Sir.
As it is the desire of the new
Bun Etin to have its old readers
bear with it. and have patience
during its period of transition,
1 would venture to suggest that
it make every endeavor to
attract writers of a calibre
somewhat higher than Xa\ier
Herbert and John O’Grady,
who undoubtedly have appeal
to a certain section of Austra-
lian readers, but surely not to
the majority of long-standing
Bulletin readers.
I must agree with your
English correspondent (A. V.
Chadwick, Cairns, Qld.) who
appears to be mildly shocked
bv the tone of Herbert’s writing
and asks, “Who is Xavier
Herbert?” But I, as an Aus-
tralian. would not be interested
to know who he is, but rather
what he is, and my guess.
based on his writings, is that
he is of Irish-Australian extrac-
tion, educated at a parochial
church school, and as such,
was unfortunate in being nur-
tured on anti-British bigotry as
is the case of a considerable
section of the Australian popu-
lation.
R. B. LOWNDES
Toongabbie (N.S.W.).
FROM THE SCHOOL-
ROOM
Sir,
Please allow me to congratu-
late you on your excellent
series of articles on Australian
novelists. As an English
teacher in a secondary school,
laboring too often with cur-
ricula heavily biased in the
English classical tradition, with
Australian literature occasion-
ally added as an elective “trim-
ming, I olten feel my crusade
to make Australian literature
known and appreciated by Aus-
tralian children, is one more
case of a “voice crying in the
wilderness.” It is a continual
source of amazement to me to
find how much even second
generation New Australians
know of the traditions and lore
of the homeland of their fore-
fathers. and how little Aus-
tralians know of the lore and
literature of their country, by
com Dari son.
In my teaching I have found
the Bulletin articles of great
value, and what escapes the
scissors of the history class
scrap book, mostly falls under
the onslaught of the English
class. I was wondering if,
perhaps, it would be possible
and profitable to reprint these
articles in pamphlet form,
readily available to students.
Perhaps it would also be pos-
sible to run a second series on
Australian Poets?
SISTER MARY VALENTINE
R.S.M.
Brisbane.
"Hey, Jack —are We right for the Alice ?”
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered jor publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
To safety, to love, and life!
perhaps....
. ... D.W.: You ask for reasons**
lor a possible rejection. Well,
drawing isn't up to scratch, and
the gags are rather corny.... }
H.J.H.: Footballers’ gag needs a
new twist, at least C. YJ
Franklin: Please send address....:
S.C.: Mess-room humor notj
wanted... .W.T.R.: “. . . in form,*
not unlike a sonnet . . .” Let's seel
the sonnet.... P.L.: Some good*
ideas there, but less quantity would
probably mean a better average 1
quality... .O.B.H.: Story suits,!
except lor length. Cut and cornel
again R.R.V.: “Article of-
Faith needs a better vehicle of]
expression ... .A.S.N.; “Lament fori
the Aspidistra" brought on a flood
of tears.. . .E.W.: Yes, that pun
will certainly be overlooked....'
J.J.: Just a jingle S.A.: You
have a flair for saying things in
verse. Why not write a poem?
. FLM.K.: Judgment reserved on
Thoughts of a Communist upon
entering the Kingdom of Heaven.”
....D.T.: Here you go:-
AUSTRALIAN BEACH SCENE
A cry for help! Heedless with
courage
Outward through the dancing spray
they plunge
These gallant men to their stricken
friend,
I he stain on the sea they love so
well,
And the unseen evil lurking there
To tear yet another youthtul limb
In its hideous gaping jaws.
Breathless they reach him at last,
And with strong arms made so
tender
B> no greater love than this,
I hey float him back to the waiting
shore.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
IO WILLIAM BANKS (also known as
D. O'Connor) late of the Seabreeze Hotel
Princes Highway Tom Uglv't, Point. —
TAKE NOTICE that RAYMOND
M EI.LOR has filed a Petition No. 3501
of 1960 piaying for divorce from MARY
AO NFS MELLOR on the ground of her
adultery with you If you wish to de-
fend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Mint Building Mac-
quarie Street Sydney by the 20th April
1961 You may obtain a copy of the
Petition fri'e of charge from HANCOCK
ALLDIS A CO., Solicitors, of 225 Forest
Road Hurstville, or from their city
agents, AIT KEN A PLUCK. Solicitors,
of 14 Spring Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—L\ Divorce.
TO EDWARD THOMAS JOHNSON late
of Wellington Road Rvde. —TAKE
NOTICE that DORIS IRENE JOHNSON
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 282
of 1961 on the ground of desertion for
three ypars and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by the 12th
day of May 1961 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
GREGG & MILNE, Solicitors, 4 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
"Frank the Florist"
By “HALF-TRACK”
rse and brutal foot-
coldiers translate it
Ily: “Too many Gunners
on m'nerves,” but Tam
quani . Minerva, motto
:: Camberley Staff College
of its daughter-colleges
.jghout the British Corn-
wealth) means something
deeper to its graduates,
correct meaning—as wise
ouncil as he is brave in
: —applies in every degree
ILieutenant - General Sir
;c Berryman, who can
the mystic letters “p.s.c.”
“p.a.c.” as well) to the
; of honors which follow
name to show that lie
ed his military education
and “passed staff college.”
brought the qualities of
rship and judgment devel-
there to the exacting post
irector of the Royal Agri-
ral Society of New South
s. which he will hand over
the coming Royal Easter
/.
> sufficiently rare for a
to make his name known
respected throughout Aus-
i and overseas in three
ate and distinct capacities ;
might be profitable and
mely interesting to ex-
le the reason for this
:ss.
eneral Berryman proved
elf first as a regimental
sr, staff officer and com-
der in the Army, his chosen
ession. Then while still
.C., Eastern Command and
ediately after he handed
his command, he showed
flair for administration in
post of Director-General
wo very important Corn-
wealth occasions. After he
the service, he became
ictor of the R.A.S. and it’s
that he possibly had his
test achievement —although
wouldn't agree on this point,
use he quotes quite a
:rent wartime occasion and
;, through modesty, to
gnise his peacetime work
s true value —bringing new
s and tireless supervision to
the activities of the great
Society of which he has been
chief executive since 1954 and
to the various breed societies,
and spreading this doctrine of
efficient organisation through-
out his own State —and inter-
state, as well.
Part of the reason for this
success you will find in Sir
Frank’s nature. Alert, humor-
ous, optimistic, untiring, gifted
with a practical outlook on life
and an urge to get things done
(and done properly), he has a
hard streak of inflexible pur-
pose, an eye which will tolerate
no slackness and the ability,
in a few well-chosen words, to
leave anyone who tries to come
it over him no doubt about his
proper place and future actions.
This has not always led to
SIR FRANK BERRYMAN
As Turton saw him in 1953
popularity, but the question of
popularity has never bothered
General Berryman, who prefers
performance to the shallow
adaptability which seeks to
please everyone and often
ends by pleasing no one. In
the jobs he has done through-
out his life, soldiering or as a
civilian, he has kept the guid-
ing principles of firm and
practical administration always
before him. That —and being
able to laugh away the little
upsets which do not matter
and keep his energy for the
big issues—has been perhaps
his greatest asset. Add to that
the “little bit o’ luck” without
which no man in this imperfect
world could ever get anywhere,
and you have at least some
idea of part of the recipe for
Frank Berryman's success.
Frank Horton Berryman
was born in 1894 at Gee-
long (Vic.), elder son of W. L.
Berryman, of Ballarat (where
so many of Australia’s soldiers
were raised). Schooled at Mel-
bourne High and at the Royal
Military College, Duntroon, he
joined the Australian Perman-
ent Forces as lieutenant in 1915
and served with the A.I.F. from
then until 1919, first as an
artillery officer and later as
Brigade Major, 7 Infantry
Brigade, being wounded and
“mentioned,” and winning the
D.S.O.
On return to Australia, he
was demobilised from th e
A.T.F. and posted to No. 2
Battery, then at Maribyrnong
(Vic.).
Late in 1920 he went to Eng-
land, to the Military College of
Science at Woolwich, where he
graduated “p.a.c.” (“passed ad-
vanced course”), returning to
Australia in 1923 to become an
Inspecting Ordnance Officer
stationed in Sydney. His duties
took him all over the North,
from Sydney to Thursday
Island, and while on tour he
gained some knowledge of the
coastal area up to Torres Strait
which was useful 20 years later
when, as Chief of Staff, First
Australian Army, he was res-
ponsible for the defence of
N.S.W. and Queensland.
But he did not relish the
idea of being a technical officer
all his service, so he began to
read for the Staff' College, which
could only be entered by com-
petitive examination.
In 1926 he sailed for England
and spent the next two years
at the Staff College, Camberley.
His tactical instructor there was
Lieutenant-Colonel (later Field-
Marshal) Montgomery. Of this
two-year course, General Berry-
man says: “It was a wonderful
experience to meet officers from
all arms and services of the
British and Indian Armies and
from all the Dominions, who
had served in the many different
theatres of the First World
War, and to study problems
together. I did not realise how
little I knew and how much
there was to learn —and what a
disadvantage Australian Regu-
lar officers were at in peace-
time, with no Regular Army
to train and no annual
manoeuvres. How different this
was from the position of
young Regular officers today,
who serve in Regular units and
have had experience in Korea
and Malaya.
“At the Staff College we were
trained in a common school
of thought. The advantage of
this was that in war we had the
same doctrine of tactics and
administration, which was
essential if we were to work
together. More than that, the
officers who had to carry out
their duties in co-operating
formations knew each other
personally. When with 6 Div.
in the Middle East, I knew most
of the key-officers in the British
forces, while Vasey knew them
in the Indian divisions, so
through personal contact the
doors of co-operation opened
easily —and General Mackay,
our G.0.C., more than once
said how greatly impressed he
was by this advantage of Staff
College graduates knowing each
other and by its value to the
Army.”
For three years after this he


served as Australian Army
representative in London.
■Returning to Australia in
1932, he was posted Brigade
Major, 14 Infantry Brigade,
where he served with Generals
Morshead and Allen. “I had
great admiration for Militia
officers like Morshead, Allen
and others,” he says. “In spite
of every discouragement, they
gave up their spare time to
serve with the Militia when it
was anything but fashionable
to do so. At this time, I marked
out a young Militia officer as
having great potential Ken
Eather, who by 1945 had
become a major - general
through ability on active ser-
vice.”
Posted to Army Head-
quarters in 1934, he spent the
next four years there and be-
came Assistant - Director of
Military Operations. His duties
were concerned with planning
for mobilisation strategic con-
centration, and with defence
schemes.
In 1938 he became G.S.O. I,
3 Division, stationed in Mel-
bourne and, on the outbreak of
the Second World War, went
with the Division to camp at
Seymour (Vic.). Appointed
G.S.O. 1 of 6 Division, when
Sir Iven Mackay became divi-
sional commander, he went
overseas with the division.
Largely responsible for the
successful planning which led
to the capture of Bardia and
Tobruk, he was awarded the
C. for his services in
Libya, promoted brigadier, and
appointed C.R.A., 7 Division.
Later, as commander of Berry-
force, he recaptured Merdja-
youn in Syria, after bitter fight-
ing. After the Syrian campaign
he was appointed Brigadier,
General Staff, Ist Australian
Corps, first in the Middle East
and later in Java, after the
outbreak of the Far Eastern
war. He became Major-
General, General Staff, First
Australian Army, in 1942 ;
D. when General
Blarney was directing the 1942
New Guinea campaign (where
General Berryman spent much
time up forward during the
climax of the battles of Buna
and Sanananda); and ultimately
M.G.G.S., New Guinea Force,
in August, 1943.
As G.0.C., 2nd Australian
Corps, he fought in the Finsch-
hafen-Houn Peninsula cam-
paign (for his work in which
he was made a C.B ). He was
promoted lieutenant-general in
1944, took command of Ist
Australian Corps, was later
appointed Chief of Staff at
A.L.H.Q., Morotai, and served
with G.H.Q., S.W.P.A., in
Hollandia. Leyte and Manila.
At the final surrendei of the
Japanese armed forces, on
board U.S.S. Missouri in Tokyo
Bay. he accompanied General
Blarney, representing the Aus-
tralian Army.
AT the end of the war,
General Berryman was
appointed G.0.C., Eastern
Command, and moved to Syd-
ney, where for almost the first
time in his service he could put
down roots (because the life
of a soldier, though fascinating
for anyone who likes travel is
not conducive to long resi-
dence in any one location).
When he took over Eastern
Command in 1946 General
Berryman saw quite plainly
that the public had “had” the
Army in a big way. Now that
the war was over, everyone
wanted to get out of the Army
as fast as he could, and was
generally fed-up to the back
teeth with soldiering. This was
the direct opposite of General
Berryman's outlook. He has
always believed that a soldier
is not only supposed to defend
his country in war but to play
a very important part in the
community in peace, serving
his country then as a good
citizen. Since it was impossible
to let everyone leave the Army
at once, he decided to show
his men that the best policy
for the Army was to become
thoroughly integrated with the
community, so that they could
carry out both their roles at
once —as soldiers and as
citizens.
His first scheme—it earned
him his nickname of “Frank
the Florist” —was to encourage
his troops to make the sur-
roundings of their barracks,
camps and drill-halls more
comfortable and attractive.
He got them busy laying lawns,
planting trees and making
gardens. At the same time he
had the interiors of the build-
ings made brighter and kept
spotless. He also brought as
much pageantry and color into
the routine business of military
life, organising tattoos, form-
ing more military bands and
encouraging charitable work
for Legacy, the War Widows’
Guild, the Red Cross, etc.
Altogether Eastern Command
raised £50,000 for these causes.
In 1949, during the big coal
strike, he planned “Operation
Open-cut” on the instructions
of Mr Chifley, who was then
Prime Minister, sending 3000
men to get coal from the open-
cuts on the western and
northern coalfields. The
average output from the open-
cuts was 26,000 tons a week
before the strike. His dis-
ciplined force of unskilled
laborers produced 107,188 to
of coal in 13 days—and]
strike was broken. His m
also helped with rescue-wt
throughout N.S.W., in ]
floods at Maitland, Wagga
Forbes, and sent bulldozers!
Kempsey to clear up aftl
flood-damage there.
In 1951 he was selected]!
the Menzies Government ]\
Director-General of the Con
monwealth Jubilee celebr;
tions. being seconded for 11
months from the Army to tl
Prime Minister’s Departmen
“We decided to keep!
record of everything we d:
during the celebrations
General Berryman told me ar
showed me the book which wj
published, handsomely bour
and designed to cover evei
single aspect —art, scienc
commerce, industry, agricu
ture. education, sport, publicil
and pageantry —of the detail*
organisation of that natioi
wide festival of commemor;
tion. ‘1 thought it might !
useful to anyone who had I
do the job in 2001, because v
had to work from scratch an
thought we would give oi
successors as much help as \*
possibly could,” he add©
characteristically
Back again at Eastern Con
mand. he went on with h
work of integrating the Arm
with the community. “One c
my main criticisms of Arm
policy after the war was th<
they would go on buiidin
camps instead of barracks, v h
told me. ‘And the troubl
when they build camps noi
mally is that they forget thz
a new camp spread over 1
large area needs a lot mol
maintenance than a more cot
centrated barracks. Wors
than that they often build ther
with their backsides toward
the public —cookhouses, ugl
store-hutments, even latrines
start the day right!
a
ut o\H c
V»HC
rEM?
c
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
{lncorporated by Royal Charier AD. 1720)
Assets exceed £173,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O’Connell Streets, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.


*ght of the road for every
rung traveller to see as the
examples of military archi-
ire that meet the eye. That
i no way to improve our
Ac relations. But, at least,
,nad got Victoria Barracks
ing something like it was
anally supposed to look
n first built and rather
Trent from the drab spot it
I become at the end of the
We'd built tennis-courts
ovals, too, wherever we
id, and all by our own
•ts —or the luck of being
to use p.-0.-ws. or dis-
ced persons to help us —
»out any assistance from
[-Military Board.”
December, 1953, General
Terryman handed over as
>.C., Eastern Command,
was again seconded to the
ne Minister's Department
:ake up full-time duties as
ector-General of the Royal
t. The successful organisa-
. of that important Royal
r is too well remembered to
d any special record here,
what is not always recog-
d by the ordinary citizen
he immense amount of pre-
, detailed planning, cover-
every possible contingency
i every imaginable set of
:umstances, necessary to
ke the visit so triumphant
l to allow as many as pos-
sible of the inhabitants of the
Commonwealth to see and pay
their personal respects to the
Queen and Prince Philip. All
this meticulous detail was the
ultimate responsibility of
General Berryman, who was
created a K.C.V.O. as a mark
of the Queen’s appreciation of
his efficient service.
Sir Frank, who left the
Army after his duties as
Director-General were con-
cluded, then went to the
R.A.S., where he took up the
post of Director.
“When I joined the R.A.5.,”
said Sir Frank. “Sam Hordern,
who had served with me in
New Guinea and whom I had
got to know there after his feat
on Sattelberg, outside Finsch-
hafen, became president at
about the same time, so we
started off more or less to-
gether. I found he set about
his work there in exactly the
same way as he did in New
Guinea. I think he was one
of the biggest-thinking men I
have ever met —quite incapable
of taking personal offence
whatever people might do to
him and always out to help
others wherever he could, in
his gay, casual way, which
never altered. He did a tre-
mendous amount to improve
the all-round activities of the
R.A.S., and it was largely
through him that the R.A.S.
of the Commonwealth was
formed. Besides the loss it
inflicted on the Society, his
death last year came as a great
personal blow to me. He was
a friend I valued and the
amount he did to make my
task easy is more than I can
tell you.”
Sir Frank's task wasn't all
that easy, though he would be
the last to admit it, but coun-
cillors and members of the
R.A.S. know what he has done
in the way of organising and
improving the facilities in both
office and Showground. He
hands over to his successor,
W. N. Parry - Okeden, a
smoothly-running machine. As
an ordinary member of the
R.A.S., who has frequent occa-
sion to visit the office in search
of information for the press
and who can count some of
the happiest days of his life on
the Sydney Showground, may
I be permitted to add a per-
sonal tribute to the cheerful
courtesy which I always have
received from the retiring
Director?
That’s the story of a great
administrator. It is for readers
to judge for themselves where
Sir Frank Berryman learned to
command success.
Tf you asked him, he would
* probably say: “Luck of the
draw.” I suspect that this is
hardly true. Partly, I think, ho
learned the qualities that guide
him in the stern school of two
World Wars. But, partly, too,
some of his wisdom and
courage must have come from
that stone-faced brick building
“in the Italian style, with its
entrance hall designed on the
lines of a Roman bath,” in far-
away Camberley.
Sir Frank is right when he
speaks of the value of staff-
college training. How's this
for prowess? It's the fates of
a batch of 32 officers who
joined the College in one term
(January, 1896) and is quoted
from “Owl Pie,” the College
journal:
Killed in action .. 4
Died of hardship in war .. .. 2
Died before 1914, of disease
contracted abroad 2
Invalided from war as colonels 2
Field-marshals and peers .. .. 2
(Haig and Allenby)
Generals and knights .. .. 8
Generals, but not knighted .. 6
Placed on the retired list for
quelling a riot with m.-g. fire l
(Dyer)
Joined the Sudan Civil Service 1
Came into money and retired .. 2
Shot his mother-in-law and her
lawyer and then suicided .. 1
Last heard of keeping a brothel
in Smyrna I
32
Such men don't generally
retire to grow cabbages, so
don't be surprised if Sir Frank
Berryman has a lot ahead of
him yet.
THE
CATTLE CRUSH
HIGH-FLY
& WEIGHING MACHINE
. An extlcmcly strong calllc crush.
dcsngncd lo give maximum accessi-
bility for the OpClaIOI‘. Ton access
gates are provided in sides.
0 I! has a simple but effective Yoke
which is easy to release after use.
b
U
# Portability is a feature of this unit.
It can be picked up and carried on
the 3 point linkage of your tractor.
• Weighing Machine can be quickly
and easily fitted if required.
• Can be fitted with a sling attachment
for lifting animals.
# It will weigh any animal or materials.
ON DISPLAY AT THE SHOW—ENQUIRE AT NEW ZEALAND LOAN & M.A. CO. LTD. STUD BEEF CATTLE OFFICE
PRICE Crush, £,187 Weighing Attachment, £l2l
Sling Attachment, £62 Three Point Linkage Attachments, £3/10/-
Cleveland Engineering & Welding Coy. Pty. Ltd.
45 Kent Road, Mascot: MU2983 * MU2354 Also at Tamworth, N.S.W. —Orange, N.S.W. —Charleville, Q.


THE SHORT STORY
At Aunt Sophia’s
By HAL PORTER
Actually the journey
begins while Gregory
and everybody watch
from edges of eyes two
svelte horses fastidiously tipping
the asphalt with the fore-rims
of hoofs as a man wearing a
confetti of chaff on his serge
entices them the archduke
steed in robe and visor of rose,
the haughty czarina in blue
plaid and mask, the eyes black-
rimmed with ennui—into the
train to pastures, parklands, the
country.
1 he man fondly closes doors,
pink nose quivering tragically
under cap-peak. Immediately
he is trampled underfoot by
all who have already forgotten
his beatification. A bell and
voice begin, “All aboard!
Passengers to Gippsland all
aboard!" Crikey, where is the
bag of bananas, the Tobler
chocolate? The train simmers
diligently under Late Victorian
cast-iron archings.
“Ta-ta! Ta-ta! Ta-ta! Ta-
ta!”
Gregory cannot trace the
creature chirping thus as gir-
ders, black hats and ostrich
feathers slither backwards.
Someone agonises. “Oh. get to
a window and wave to them!”
The agony remains in the
carriage corridor when the
corridor is empty except for a
juiceless glove too frightened
to stir or whimper.
Already, trees are drinking
and grazing along one, two,
three sunny rivers. The train
chants through the green ball-
room of autumn where the
nude gums, the half - burnt
magpied gums, circular-waltz in
vast arcs to the rear. Swagmen
logs are prone among sheep ;
dove-colored smoke flees past
windows. The Albanian
crouches opposite, under the
ventilator cord, swaying, sway-
ing. a noose. He sneers under
it. For the seventh time the
huge flowering baby throws its
bunny-bunny to the floor.
Spokes of the world revolve
serenely maize, mangel-
wurzel, sugar-beet —in that
world satin horses pose by dams
brimmed by milky-weak tea, at
the whitewashed gates of dairy
farms, near haystacks with
cake-slices cut from them. One
horse, the one that did this last
year and every year, rocking-
horses up. down and off, to
circle back more terror-stricken
from a Dominican inquisition
of pines.
Telegraph crucifixes flip by.
Mushrooms. Wild hop. Prickly
Moses. Dogwood. A cage of
maize-cobs. Last year Gregory
knew which was wild cherry,
which sheoak. But this year,
now, which is which? The
bunny-bunny springs into the
spittoon.
The noose above the
Albanian and his stained cigar-
ette and hidden dagger pro-
phetically vibrates. Trees and
trees, and trees with charcoal
cupboards burned in, yearn
broken-armed towards hills. At
gravel-and-geraniUm halts mon-
grels brace legs and bark, mag-
pies gargle ecstatically. All
this is excitement crusted over
beauty, and means something.
Soon, in a few moments,
Gregory will pierce the crust
and know what it all means.
But. hardly having begun,
everything is over for Gregory
and everyone; the train
screams, is wrecked, sinks hiss-
ing. is abandoned. The
Albanian escapes the noose,
and leers away with his knife
through a surf of faces that
open and shut in the noisy sun-
shine.
A unt Sophia, brittle as burnt
biscuit, blatant in her
smallness, is a stake driven into
the shore; women exasperatedly
side-step her old - time im-
mobility and odor of menthol.
Miles oft. mad among crates
and dress-baskets and Glad-
stone bags, the raw-nosed man,
reborn from underfoot, terri-
fied at what he might find,
desperately unbars archduke
and fatigued czarina. Some-
body or a bird whistles “Every-
body’s doing it, doing it, doing
it ”
Gregory sways on the carri-
age step unable to move until
Aunt Sophia sees him, until
her cheek twitches, pricked by
an invisible insect. She sees
him. It twitches. He moves.
Instantly a net seems to fall ;
he and his schoolboy portman-
teaux struggle in its glinting
and heavy mesh as he advances,
blind, to accept Aunt Sophia’s
kiss. Again, where his repay-
ing kiss lights, occurs a tic as
though not he but some insect
.. . the insect of happiness .. .
Happiness, love, and yet, in the
waters of her colorless eyes he
sees what he expected, a
startled gleam. He blushes.
C ruelly it cannot be hidden
that this is first of all the years
he must bend (/own to Aunt
Sophia, the first of all the years
she does not take one of his
portmanteaux, first of all the
years he is 14. A scalding
mercury rises in the almost
interminable cylinder of his
throat to congeal at his celluloid
collar; his body becomes
grotesque and unoiled ; the
day turns its face aside.
He is in the buggy, and it
out of Main Street, out of
town so swiftly that he still
fossicks in his wonderful waist-
coat for the ticket, and is
amazed to find it gone, to
realise that he only must some-
how have given it up.
‘‘Yes, aunt.”
T Tpright. her black - gloved
hands much too small to
control the masculine mare she
easily controls, she asks the
same questions she has always
asked, the same questions in
the same voice. He gives, as
always, visit after visit, the
same answers. They are cer-
tainly the same but seem not
to be. His extra knowledge
gives unintended intonations ;
obscenities miscolor respect-
able words.
Aunt Sophia is all in black.
But is she? Even if he dare
scrutinise her in a glass case
labelled “Australian Aunt (Pro-
vincial), a.d. 1912.” Gregory
could not be perfectly sure. If
he close his eyes . . .
He closes his eyes. Dressed
in black, yet, yet, what is the
color? It is unique, a mirage;
through it gleam the flower-
stem fibres of her kindliness,
the blue of her love, all the
subtle and overlapping shades
of her stubbornness, eager
searchings, knowledge, super-
stitions and. sometimes, un-
predictably, the opalescence of
a smile so exquisite that her
withered lips and false teeth are
only as the paper on which a
deathless sonnet has been en-
graved.
• . . . and all the rain
alter the drought has caused
such a fancy to-do. Gregory.
Fruit-blossom in autumn . . .
look!”
Thereupon, to illustrate, a
hobbledehoy tree arranges it-
self nearby in a paddock ; a tree
tagged with green leaves and
fever leaves and small mottled
apples decorates itself also with
sprigs of bride's blossom.
Gregory almost says ‘"Ah!”
Ah! I wonder if that tree . . .
If the buggy will stop for an
hour or two . . .. But the land-
scape, with his mind in it and
his distress, flutters forlornly
past, past the train, past the
buggy, past. Everything is too
significant and intangible, as
though he Paul-Pried through
father's shagreen-covered tele-
scope the fragmentary goings-
on at Camelot.
“Yes. aunt.”
What?


dark shadows under
r s. eyes.”
Ba\'es, aunt.”
Tiark shadows of vast rotat-
rivwheels stuttering across the
sfcble of life: down to kiss,
hurtled gleam, dark nights of
ffuirity and . . . Aunt Sophia
m not give me a menthol
\r
:i : is so astounded and hurt
rb that he scarcely feels the
Y«y turn the corner to the
dsetery glittering and quiet
salt, past the brickyard, to
w walnut-trees, peppercorns
;d barns of Aunt Sophia’s,
the gate, Young Alec,
1 1 has been dead or packed
yy for a year, slices sulkily
srihe boxthorn hedge with a
>rlhook. He is smaller and
fascinating and years
He gapes a “Hullo,
gg!” and is lost in the
:>nd of the tissue paper of
hithol jubes which rustles of
'town accord from its niche
JAunt Sophia’s person.
r Gregory could scent a
[Jition instead of nothing
ieer the blue umbrella of
u
d he dog comes bouncing and
J.i g h i n g at the flickering
■j;els ; house and beehives
gge out from behind the
Jlberry trees; at this instant
3i:gory knows that the day
f be more and more crippled,
hobble its melancholy race
iinst nothing ; he knows that
1 bird on the pump-handle is
first of robins, too early,
I that the rouge on its
rast this year is not of paint
of blood.
jung from the passage ceil-
ing, the Japanese windbells
[gle from their slices of glass
nelody that no more satisfac-
ily supports last year’s
retto. The odor of the
use is less satisfying though
altered, is poignant though
Tilled from the same mildest
ngs: Northern Spy apples,
ipberry :inegar, brown eggs,
ter pats, lemon cheese,
t nces, red-and-white-bearded
Ik - jug covers, bentwood
rmna rockers, biscuit barrels
mmed with rock cakes, the
•omo-lithograph of Queen
:;xandra.
The customary objects, much
ler than 14, seem richer as
Dugh nearer, out-of-focus as
)ugh too near.
The swan-shaped teapot, the
iss fender, the maroon silk
the harmonium front, the
onze stallion on the clock,
e gipsy tables, all have some
;aning he could sniff out if
ly . . if only .. .
Where his younger fingeis
ve fondled and followed the
solved stems and flat buds of
the wallpaper his present eyes
go uneasily hunting in the
extravagant growth which
appears on the point of splitting
into blossom, of parting to
reveal what is secreted. He
watches for the miracle. Noth-
ing happens ; the orgy of foli-
age is stubborn ; the room
shuffles sideways ; his face
mimics his face in the glass-
panelled door. He remembers
that it is—that it was —delight
to peer outside, first through a
blue pane, then a red.
Al/Tthout peering, he grasps
the door-handle of white
china, opens the door, walks
from the mouldering verandah
on to the brick path ripe with
moss.
A little boy wails: behind
him and inside him the little
thwarted boy wails for blue
fuchsia bushes, blue tanks on
blue stilts, blue clouds and
bluer sky, the blue stable
with the plumbago-blue horse
dreaming under the granite
archway blue as sleep. He
sees as he walks, and has no
desire to skip screeching to-
wards them, four immaculate
roosters and a crowd of their
women under a mulberry tree.
He is dressed still in his best
suit with its corker of a waist-
coat and his tight boots with
the patent leather toe-caps.
Aunt Sophia appears above
him at his upstairs bedroom
window. She is going to call out,
“Greggy, come back this minute
and change your good clothes.
Put on your galatea suit.
Greggy!” while she gesticulates
like a beetle and he, light and
cheeky, laughing, runs away to
the hay-loft or behind the
loganberry canes.
He watches her lips separate,
and is horrified at the quiet of
her voice, “Are you going to
change, Gregory?”
In a moment he will cry ; a
contortion, smile of an impure
orchid, mutilates his face.
“Not now, aunt. Later. Not
now”
The last word is rude. He
dares not look at her longer,
he cannot stop moving ; behind
his back the window moans
down and, as his feet fumble
with the ground and his hands
with splintery gates, he feels
her face withdrawing little by
little, disintegrating until noth-
ing adorns the pane except her
loitering and agonised eyes.
Before him, around him, smoke
ghosts about from tumuli of
smouldering garden rubbish ;
zinnia stalks, sunflower skele-
tons, rose hips, loquat leaves
fallen from trees which Japan-
esely incense the air from un-
seasonal blossoms on felt-
covered twigs.
As he crosses the road, which
once led to breath-taking places
where a little boy found sky-
larks’ nests and snake-skins,
and that now is the three-
tracked way to vice and weari-
ness, Gregory sees the grave-
digger standing faceless where
left a year ago, centre of sinister
flashing in the cemetery: domes
of glass, ginger jars, and
pickle-bottles and tumblers be-
coming deeper and deeper
mauve.
'T'iny sexless lizards flicker
through haulms of dead
and overthrown chrysanthe-
mums as the grave-digger goes
on speaking, “Yuss, you’ve
growed into a reel toff. Yuss!
A reel Gilbert-the-filbert.”
He will, Gregory knows, re-
tell all he has re-told and re-
told since Gregory was a gaper
of seven in a sailor suit with
anchor-embossed brass buttons.
Year after year Gregory has
seen the lips ceaselessly labor-
ing, covered with white scum
which now and then bird-limes
them together so that they must
be torn apart by “Yuss!” He
has seen no more —under the
dirty frill of the grave-digger’s
hat brim is the unimaginable
remainder of face.
“Yuss! In the Metho’s and
Pressy’s corner the coffins get
af-flic-ted with dry rot. Yuss!
When I do a re-open the shovel
cuts through them like ...”
Gregory stares at the ex-
perienced shovel, it at him.
“Yuss! Howsumever, in the
R.C. and C. of E. sections, over
in the west corner, it’s wet.
Yuss! Pre-serves caskets fifty
years or more. Get a re-open :
they’re like new —yuss —hard as
granite.”
Clashed awake, a dead boy
of last century, wearing the
sealing wax of suicide on his
14-year-old temple, mumbles
in his stony drawer.
Gregory does not want to
watch the lips. He looks
at lizards, the blond bricks
of the Chinese altar, the
hot pines fruited with
parrots, while the sticky lips,
all he knows of a shrouded
face, go unceasingly on:
as-ton-ish-ing the snakes I
found when 1 was burning off,
yuss! Hundreds! There was a
seven-footer on the very grave
you’re sitting on. Yuss! There’s
a chunk out of the marble-
see. Yuss! J heard him buzz.
Like a blowie in a cobweb. So
I up with the shovel and ...”
The shovel winks at Gregory.
After years the mechanism of
these old tales stammers to stop
while the shovel nervously
shuffles in the clay in attempts
to divert Gregory’s eyes from
the lips which, inspired, wriggle
lustfully toward sound.
“Yuss!” It is a crow’s cry,
foul with warning.
Crows themselves, in racked
gums beyond the cemetery, cry
out like dying sheep. Head-
stones, each pregnant with the
essence of its night-shirted
skeleton, retreat a little. The
grave - digger, strangling his
shovel with flaky hands, lowers
his face until, at last, Gregory
sees all of it, sees and smells
it.
TAefore he can wake up
screaming, a new voice
begins to unravel behind
horror:
“Y us s ! You’re a big
younker now. A flash townie,
eh? Fifteen? Sixteen? You
know what it’s all about, yussl


Tell ya something. In that
grave with the urn” —a ripple
of shame shudders across the
marble —“re-pose the mortal
remains of Mrs Fairweather,
died August nineteen - o - six.
Yuss! Left Mr F. with four
daughters and a coupla boys.
Six years ago. They used to
have the place down the road.
Kept pigs. Yuss!
“About four years ago your
auntie was hor-rif-ied to find
the two eldest girls up the duff,
in the family way. One six-
teen, the other about a year
younger. Your auntie, she’s a
Christian lady. She went to
Fairweather and . . . . ”
Aunt Sophia! Family way!
Four years ago —one, two,
three, four visits ago!
“ .... to mind her own
business. Yuss! All came out
at the trial.”
Gregory has torn feathers
from the Guinea fowls’ tails,
slept with a raw carrot under
his pillow, has climbed and
raced and enjoyed himself
while . . . The gummy lips are
losing control :
“Yuss. Yuss. The trial.
Everyone there. Your auntie a
reel lady. Because why? Be-
cause he ordered her off the
place. Yuss! “I was upset,’ she
said. Didn’t know what to do.
Didn't guess he was the one.
Yuss! His own daughters.
When the babies came —it was
in all the papers he fed 'em
to the pigs. Yuss!”
/'Trfgory is stumbling and
slipping now as he runs on
the leather-colored pine-needles
through horrible land and
horrible day. He flees what he
has said foolishly:
“To —the —pigs?”
“Yuss\ Yussl “
Then, quickly subject-chang-
ing abo\e the backs of gollop-
ing pigs:
“Whose grave you digging?”
“What?”
“Whose grave? Who's dead?”
“ No-one dead.” The grave-
digger had spat.
“But?”
‘‘ Yuss ! No-one. But to-
morrow . ... ”
“How d'you know?”
“/ — just — know. Yuss!”
There was the face he should
never have seen ; gnawed,
crumpled, its eyes leaking like
rotten mulberries. There were
the babies flowering in stye-
muck, small blind hands grop-
ing under the pigs’ teeth for
bunny-bunny.
There there was Aunt
Sophia, meagre, dried, neat,
yet waterlogged with appalling
knowledge.
Gregory, flees, runs, slips,
stumbles.
Strange and sweet, there is
no one in the brickyard
but a cow of black-and-white
plush being nudged by a shaky
calf with a glazed-pork nose.
No one else.
The kiln, an animal patient
and untended, breeds effort-
lessly within itself, steam dis-
solving from its back, as horror
dissolves from Gregory.
Sorrow —is it sorrow? —presses
a final drowsy chord from his
heart. Sorrow and a flock of
swift starlings swing down into
the grass and are lost.
XJE lies in the grass. The
iA afternoon coils on the grass,
on the plain, on the mild hills,
like a great golden woman.
Close to his soothed face, two
ants, meeting on a stalk of
grass, rub masks together and
pass on, one to air and heaven,
one to dirt and hell. He,
Gregory and the woman . . .
he and the woman . . .
In seconds, when all is
stiller, he will know. The road
will lead somewhere, veil after
veil will fold back, he will be
less grotesque, will be able to
run nimbly, bare-kneed, cry-
ing, “Auntie, Auntie, I tutted
me pinger.” She will unlatch
the hole in her where the men-
thol jubes live, and there will
be nothing to tear his mind.
In seconds . . . in one
second . . .
“Ev'r\ body's doin' it, doin'
it, doin' it,
Pickin' their nose an’
chewin’ it, chewin' it,
chewin' it!”
Young Alec! Young Alec,
shining and smelling of brown
soap, blinks down at him. He
will never be able to rise.
“Miss Lancaster says for you
to come in and git ready for
tea. She's been ringin’ the
bell.”
Gregory crawls up from the
bath of grass; he feels the
feathery greenth slip from his
flesh and with it peace and
strength. He has not, cannot
have, slept and yet, in a flash,
the afternoon, the golden
woman, has glided away from
him taking her secret, and
leaving nothing on the land
except the luminous impression
of her body. This fades and
fades. And the bell has faded
to sleep beside the teapot, the
cold pearls of sound have
tinkled into eternity, and he
has caught none of them.
The pools of grass, in which
float puff-balls, wash over his
patent-leather and Alec's cow-
red boots. They climb fences
awkwardly as two wallabies.
Young Alec is a sonk ; he can
go and eat coke with his Greg
this and Greg that. He is only
Aunt Sophia’s odd-job boy
who snores in the mousy room
by the scullery. He has noth-
ing to tell —not really.
And yet he says, after a
silence, as they are passing the
piles of shorn-off boxthorn
branches, “See here, Greg.”
He produces his hand from
within his breast and, grin-
ning, holds something out into
the twilight: “What d'ya think
of those ?”
They stop, they stand like
two posts with wet wind
streaming between. Then the
wind ceases ; they are closer
together than even elbows
touching. The day, drunken
with renewed nastiness, leers
over Gregory’s shoulder at the
French postcards: “The buck
nigger and the three women,
eh?” Gregory wants to say,
“You're a dirty pig. I’ll tell
Aunt Sophia.”
But his reply emerges, “Any
—any more?” He hates him-
self and loves Young Alec ; the
stunning waistcoat restricts a
battering heart. The little bell,
waking again, scatters green
pearls and, miraculously,
Young Alec is gone and he,
Gregory, has gone, too, is
standing at his window think-
ing. “I'll never speak to him
again.”
Meanwhile he watches, down
below, sparks springing from
the angry kiss of the hammer
and the long nail Young Alec
is beating into the peach-tree
which grits its teeth and
shudders with pain. What a
blob, to be beating and beat-
ing. Tea is waiting.
Young Alec is off his chump.
When the sparks stop and the
noise, Gregory will call to
him. There will be an answer.
Already he sees Young Alec's
voice growing up and up, a
silver lily on a silver stalk, to
be plucked, “See here, Greg,”
before it passes his window
and sheds petals in the rain-
gutters.
For the third time the bell
sprinkles, and Aunt Sophia's
voice spills over all the world:
“Alec, you young Turk, leave
that tree till tomorrow. Come
in to tea.” And next she wears
a smile no one can see but
anyone can feel in her voice
as it climbs the rose-padded
stair-carpet: “Gregory, what
are you doing?”
'Mdc.HT. In bed Gregory
recalls that, at the other
end of his journey, the clink-
ing fish-cart has long, long ago
joggled away the afternoon
into remoter suburbs, the
chimney-sweep has trudged off
with the last of light into
unhappy back-lanes, the lamp-
lighter has fed scraps of flame
from his wand to lamps that
wink twilight into night.
Night: he has played Tit
Tat Toe with his mother and
brushed her sleepy hair. Her
brooch with crescent of pearls
and comet of rubies has ex
haled the final splinter of
and waits tomorrow and thd
boned collar of her blouse
She is in bed ; the gas-blunj
fishtail of flame throbs antn
purrs in the globe; the rat
from her hair are curled at thi
base of the haughty Eau-de
Cologne flask.
He is not there, has not beer
there. Where is he? At Aunii
Sophia's? Scarcely—for p
Aunt Sophia's, at night, thi
joyous kettle squats black or
the pink-hot bars while one
presses fingertips into thtf
lurry crimson tablecloth, anc
her old-fashioned voice en-
chants with “Casabianca” 01
“Down in a green and shady
dell” or:
Heigh, Domini-Domicum ! j
Leave your Easy Degree; ;
Put on your Three-farthing
Crackers,
Likewise your Soft Down-
treaders,
And come and see . . . /
Poor old Simony White-face
With a Rackororam on his
back
Has climbed to the Highest
Top o’ the Mountain
And, without the aid of Abso-
lution,
We shall all be undone.
But tonight, this visit, he has
not been there. Indecorous,
relentlessly, the day has
churned on and on, working
itself out like a nightmare
Euclid problem. It must be
almost the conclusion.
After tea, while the bronze
stallion watched from the
clock, Aunt Sophia, unasked,
had given him the camphor-
sacred stereoscopic views which
for years he had unsuccessfully
pleaded to see and tonight had
no desire to see.
Jaded, he arranged the
double-pictured cards one by
one to reveal their sharp and
static world, a world too voice-
less and perfect to be loved, a
world of stone monsters and
cathedral saints, galleries with
parquet floors and looking-
glass walls, market-squares
sown with moveless people,
the world of France, of post-
cards, of the buck nigger.
If only, after tea, his heart
had licked its hardened lips:;
“Auntie, say 'Domini’ for me,
please.” But ali he or his heart
could say was, “I’m tired,
Aunt Sophia. Ed like to go to
bed.”
Neither he nor his heart had
ever said that before. He
climbed the stairs of dead
roses.
He is in bed. The wick of
the candle, black and bowed,
prays hidden prayers in a pale
spire of flame. He sees the
wall-text, “The beloved of the
Lord shall dwell in safety.”


text and flame had
)f to fascinate and heal,
rifthey are gelded. They
o;io strength to solve the
q : problem and its imper-
ate coalitions —baby and
d-;-bunny, startled gleam,
loiol jubes, stains beneath
?3fes, blossoming autumn,
of the grave-digger’s
Tund story and pigs, pigs
ecbabies, golden woman,
Jirds, three women,
Ae, buck nigger—the prob-
icarkly drips the tears he
tcot shed.
rlht and nothing ; he has
II all day to do nothing
nrrive nowhere. Where is
t£at was his? And those
—, —Aunt Sophia, Young
the grave-digger—what
uurned the tap in them
v which has run to waste,
j?sery, all that was theirs?
fithing has run to waste, to
.\y. This is the same room,
bed, same candlestick,
2; safe door. On the door
?:!s a ghost’s knock,
c ay I come in, Gregory?”
as Aunt Sophia. This had
happened before ; for
nno one has ever before
.ced on a door.
creeps in. Why creep?
He watches. She seems
;;same in the same grey
r per; her hair is plaited
lhas always been when she
every year for ever, to
Ihim good-night and ask,
:ggy, do you want to do
oer one before you go to
?,,
watches and waits, heavy,
ied. bound in and pressed
i by the glinting net. But
tows she is not the same,
-seeks some sin on her,
physical signal of her
tacy with vile facts,
non her are shades and a
ir veil of wrinkles than he
noticed before ; but these,
her stiffness, recall nothing
at his mother’s drawl while
fingertips fiddle with the
lelled watch buried in her
ed belt, “Poor Sophie!
i girl she was beautiful,
rding to Gran. Now: a
less old maid. A perfect
, of course. But —an old
phie . . . Aunt Sophia . . .
Lancaster . . . Miss Lan-
r . . . old maid . . . she
is, tiny and dried, in her
wrapper. She does not
nee to kiss him. He
vs that she will not, but
ot think why.
l, kiss me, Aunt Sophia,
me and say, as you always
e licks her lips. Why is
lervous? Here, at last, is
voice: “Gregory, if you
if you . . . during the
night . . . the evening bowl Is
in the little cupboard.”
Evening bowl?
“Good-night, Gregory.
Don't forget your prayers.”
She is gone.
Evening bowl? Evening
bowl?
Evening bowl!
Suddenly, like the meeting
and marrying of many
drops of rain, many tears,
sliding sideways along a wire,
all things of the day gather
together in one full and blind-
ing drop, one overwhelming
drop, conclusion to the
problem.
He violently puffs away the
minaret of candle-flame. The
drowning drop falls with the
darkness. As it plunges,
swiftly, deeply, and for all time
gone, he knows that it carries
within it something never to
be replaced or experienced
again. He has found no
answer to his formless ques-
tion, has been left with no new
secret. He has found only
what he knew he should find,
something he has not let him-
self know all day.
Yet he has known all day,
as Aunt Sophia knows and
Young Alec and the grave-
digger and all the world,
except his mother, know, that
the time for little boys’ tears
is past. He is no longer a
little boy. That is sold, used
up, over. The tears that burn
from his eyes are for a child
who wails for a blue world,
and the taste of the tears is
different, and the beating of
his heart is different, and the
agony that poisons his tears
and inspires his heart is unique,
will never be suffered again,
never.
• ■v
FIRST
iiiHi
CLASS
•3 l- A
is*
BANKING
*3*
£
SERVICE
* V<*
/
,%■
:W:':
Ws
: : •
at the
ROYAL SHOW
THE
COMMERCIAL BANK
OF AUSTRALIA
LIMITED
SHOWGROUNDS BRANCH
Stand 97 99 MANUFACTURERS HALL
Open Daily 9 a.m. to 9 p.m.
Visitors, exhibitors, and stall-holders are cordially
invited to use the modern banking service provided.
THE COMMERCIAL BANK
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
Principal Office in New South Wales —. 273 George St., Sydney.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Guarantee Corp. Ltd
'T'he motor vehicles industry, hire
purchase and finance cos., and real
estate dealers and builders have been the
principal target of the Federal Govern-
ment's and ihe Reserve Bank's deflation-
ary measures.
Motor vehicles producers and dis-
tributors were severely hit ; this had an
adverse influence on h.-p. earnings,
because so much turnover in cars,
station-wagons, etc., depend on hire-
purchase finance.
Sales tax on motor vehicles has now
been cut back to 30 p.c. (still a hefty
slug). Official statistics show that total
new registrations of all types of motor
vehicles in Australia last February were
721 higher at 16,975, compared with
January. This is 6253 below the com-
parable period a year ago. Although the
additional sales tax was lifted only in the
last full week in February, and sales may
pick up this month, the trend is not
encouraging. Car dealers have not ex-
perienced any spectacular improvement
in business.
Then there is the additional danger
of rising stocks. The motor vehicles
industry is very sensitive to any substan-
tial accumulation of inventories. On top
of all this ha\e come Sir Douglas Cop-
land's pessimistic forecasts for the second
and third quarters of 1961.
TV-buying spree has also quietened
down, although there is a steady core
of sales. The opening of country TV
stations may be expected to stimulate
TV turnover to some degree.
Fortunately, most of these problems
are temporary, and not crippling to the
hire purchase industry in the long run.
More important are the constantly rising
costs of operation. The recently intro-
duced non-deductibility of interest on
borrowings tax-wise is a serious thing.
Still, it is obvious that the hire purchase
business is here to stay, although earning
rates of the peak years may not be
achieved again.
Incorporated in New South Wales in
June, 1925, Australian Guarantee Cor-
poration Ltd is a leading national hire
purchase financier. The Bank of New-
South Wales holds a 40 p.c. capital in-
terest in the co.
A.G.C. handles motor vehicles finance
and insurance in Australia and New
Zealand, and some other forms of hire
purchase. The group operates through
eight subsidiaries —Traders Finance Cor-
poration Ltd, Alliance Finance Corpora-
tion (N.Z.) Ltd, Transport and General
Insurance Co. Ltd, Transport and General
Life Assurance Co. Ltd, Empire In-
surances Ltd, A.G.C. (Pacific) Ltd, T.F.C.
(Wholesale) Pty and A.G.C. (Wholesale)
Pty.
In addition a 55 p.c. share interest is
held in Carapark and General Finance
Ltd, the hire purchase and finance off-
shoot of the prosperous and growing
Carapark Holdings motel, hotel and cara-
van group.
Last term turnover increased. Outstand-
ings at balance date were more than £8
million higher at £65.7 million. However,
net earnings were lower due to rising
costs. The co.’s chairman specifically
complains about the imposition of stamp
duty throughout Australia.
“For the first time, stamp duty, varying
between 1 p.c. and 2 p.c., is now imposed
in all States of the Commonwealth, and
in the current year of operations this
accounted for £357,000.”
The number of repossessions is also
on the rise, contributing to the fall in
net earnings. The group’s insurance
subsidiaries earned smaller profits “owing
to the marked effect recent marginal wage
increases have had upon the cost of motor
repairs.”
Consolidated net profit lor the year
ended June 30, 1960, was £209,050 lower
at £1,016,611, after providing £185,385
for depreciation (up £148,972) and setting
aside £745.354 for taxation (down
£195,804):
Pakknt ami Subsidiaries.
t Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit. I’ref. Ord. senes. serves.
G ii 5 p.c. 15 p.c.
£ £ .£ £ £
1954.. 902.384 34.000 289,578 578,80 G 2.516,196
Share premiums, £175,082 .. .. 2,691,278
To contingencies provision, £75,000.. 2,616,278
Share issue expenses, £6435 2,609,843
Unexplained addition, £7579 .. 2,617,422
1955. .1.168,096 34,000 367,626 766.470 3,383,892
Capital profit, £2067 .. .. .. 3,385,97)9
To contingencies provision, £75,000 .. 3,310,959
Share-issue expenses, £7887 .. .. 3,303,072
Sh.ire-pr* miums, £233,499 .. .. 3,536,571
Unexplained addition, £2596 . . 3,539,167
1956. . 1.172.425 34,(MM1 560,250 578,175 4,117.342
Capital profit, £2297 .. .. .. 4,119,639
To contingencies prov’n, £lOO,OOO .. 4,019,639
Unexplained addition, £231'.. .. 4,019,870
1957. .1.1(10,288 34.000 560,250 566,038 4,585,908
Capital profits, £3376 .. .. 4,589,284
Tax overproiided, £74,658 .. .. 4,663,942
Share-premiums, £1 556,250 .. .. 6,220,192
To contingencies prov., etc., £99,089 6,121,103
1958. . 1.332,186 34,000 933,750 364,436 6,485,539
Capital profits, £llO6 .. .. 6,486,645
Tax overprovided, £11,234 .. 6,497,879
To contingencies provision, £lOO,OOO 6,39 t, 879
1959. .1,225,661 34,000 933,750 257,911 6,655,790
Capital profits, £1596 .. .. 6,657,386
1960. .1,016,611 34,000 933,750 48,861 6,706,247
After paying the preference divs. this
represented an earning rate of 15.8 p.c.
on the unchanged average ord. capital,
compared with 19.1 p.c. in the previous
term, 20.8 p.c. in 1958, 30.1 p.c. in 1957,
30.5 p.c. in 1956 and 46.2 p.c. in 1955.
The ordinary dividend rate was steady
at 15 p.c., absorbing £933,750. Reserves
benefited by £48,86*1 and also by £1596
capital profits, rising to £6,706,247 (tree
of intangibles).
Paid capital remained unchanged at
£6,875,000 in 150.000 6 p.c. cum. 20s.
first prefs., 500,000 5 p.c. cum. 20s.
second prefs. and 24,900,000 ss. ords.
Borrowings were much higher. Deben-
tures rose by £4,483,261 to £32,005,802
(including £22,693,495 with currency over
one year). Deposits increased by £795,783
to £7,038,898. Bank overdraft reappeared
at £2,880,306. Creditors (includibL
dealers’ reserves and deposits) increases
by £680,886 to £2,744,913:
Paid capital— 1958. 1959. 196 |6
Pref- •• £650,000 £650,000 £650,95
Ord. .. 6,225,000 6,225,000 6,2211 s
Reserves .. 6,485,539 6,655,790 6,706*80
Debentures .. 15,389,950 27,522,541 32,005i£0
Deposits .. 3,548,408 6,243,115 7,038*6*
Overdraft . . 6,347,732 2,88ffl |D*
Creditors, etc.* 1,631,952 2,064,027 2,744, .41
Unexpired risks 1,618,149 1,893,481 1,836|g
Unearned income 5,250,164 5,798,200 6,310,^0
Staff fund . . 184,567 220,570 214,4
Tax provision 1,648,814 964,579 1,021,
Final divs. .. 483,875 483,875 483,4
-I-
£58,721,178 £68,117,i[T
Fixed assets .. 861,954 947,626 1,022« S
Shares . . 32,398 51,002 1,173»S
Loans, debtors,
etc 48,509,044 57,604,713 65,709,1'
Cash, bonds, etc. 60,754 117,837 21114
£49,464,150 £58,721,178 £68,117,6
* Includes dealers’ reserves and deposits, etc.a.
Fixed assets were shown at higher boolo
values. Following the acquisition off
55 p.c. share interest in Carapark am.
General Finance Ltd, and other expajs
sionary moves, investment in other cl)
jumped from £51,002 to £1,173,041.
Hire purchase outstandings (shown 1
loans, book debts, etc.) were £8,105.0/
higher at £65,709.783. The ratio of ou
standings to paid capital at balance dal
was 9.6 to 1.
Unearned income at £6,310,753 (Ij
£512,553) represented 12.1 p.c. of oui
standings. The ratio of combined debem
tures and deposits to shareholders fund
was 2.9 to 1.
Net tangible asset backing works or
at £9O 10s. lOd. for each 20s. first pref
£26 17s. 3d. lor each 20s. second pre
and 10s. sd. for every ss. fully paid ord
on the basis of consolidated accounts.]
This year’s prospects largely depen
on the economic climate, which has beei
unfavorable since last mid-November
The group’s reliance on sales and in
surance of motor vehicles, formerly <
major asset, is now proving a handicap
Another alarming feature is the rising rat<
of repossessions. Earnings may edgf
down further but the long run prospect!
look safe enough, although the ok
glamor days seem gone.
Last year saw the introduction ir
most States of fairly uniform hire pur
chase legislation, making compulsory
certain existing practices followed by
efficient and reputable h.p. and (inane*
firms. This has improved the competitivt
outlook for the established leaders
limiting unfair competition from smal
“shark” operators.
A.G.C. feels that the legislators did
not go far enough, and urges the intro-
duction of laws to ensure that adequate
deposits are paid on hire purchase trans-
actions: “. . . because of the increasing
competition in retailing of the various
types of consumer goods it is very tempt-
ing to make sales on terms which are
far too ‘easy’.”
Subdivided into ss. shares during
last term, the ords. look a reasonable
buy at 11s. Id. a unit. The immediate
return is 6.8 p.c. on the basis of the
steady 15 p.c. div.-rate.
The 6 p.c. cum. 20s. first prefs. last
changed hands in Sydney at par. Ihe
5 p.c. cum. 20s. second prefs. could be
bought for 16s. 9d., yielding 6 p.c.


non Paragon Industries Ltd
J term's trading results were en-
uj.u raging. Turnover and net earn-
aacreased. All subsidiaries traded
loly. Paid capital remained un-
hd at £1,419,000 in 10s. f.-p. ords.
iwidend rate was lifted from 8 p.c.
ax. p.a.
a original business was established
oxoria in 1897, and the public first
,*i interested in 1910. In 1957 a
co., Lamson Paragon Industries
B'as set up in a formal co. recon-
icon involving a virtual one-for-one
i issue.
'2 son Paragon Industries operates
rlh a group of subsidiaries, which
iise in printing business forms and
j;-;es. Operating plants are located
achmond (a Melbourne suburb),
nga and Moorabbin in Victoria;
igrove (Sydney) in N.S.W. ; Bris-
Edwardstown (Adelaide) ; Perth ;
uuckland (N.Z.).
to business forms and
»»jes, Lamson Paragon’s products
various types of office machines,
check books, continuous
lery, automatic registers, type-
attachments, Taylorix accounting
ns, Para - punch punched cards
os, carbon paper, ribbons, carbon
oooks, etc.
bding was brisk despite stiff corn-
on. Aggregate trading profit for the
inded October 31, 1960, was £77,782
■ at £375,433. Consolidated net
was £59,840 fatter at £231,579,
1 providing £68,333 for depreciation
49990), setting aside £133,718 for
;on (up £25,784) and deducting the
ity proportion of the net earn-
La.usOn Paragon and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
IProfit. f— —Dividend N serves. serves.*
£ £ £ £
1152,172 12 p.c. = 82,687 69,485 659,020
jj. o/side interests, £674 .. 558,346
icxplained reductions, £3246 .. 555,100
superannuation fund, £13,520 .. 511,580
145,128 12A p.c. = 88,594 56,534 598,114
i»n Paragon Industries and Subsidiaries.
Ij. o/side interests, £4l ..- .. 598,155
ofit sale assets, £3OBl .. .. 601,236
□explained reductions, £2166 .. 590,070
> superannuation fund, £14,460 .. 584,610
148,205 9 p.c. = 92,198 56,007 640,(i I 7
□explained reductions, £3248 .. 637,369
Ided realisation reserve, £10,482 64 7,851
i superannuation fund, £12,225 .. 635,626
147,446 7 p.c. = 99,330 48,116 683,742
Ij. o/side interests, £282 .. 684,024
ided realisation reserve, £5697 .. 689,721
nexplained reductions, £6667 . . 683,054
171,739 8 p.c. = 113,520 58,219 741,273
dded realisation reserve. £3OO .. 741,573
tangibles written-off, £9858 .. 731,715
lus reduction intangibles, £9759 .. 741,474
nexplained reductions, £21,384 . . 720,090
.231,579 9 p.c. = 127,710 103,869 823,959
ibjeet to intangibles, £726,421 at 31/10/’6O.
earning rate on the unchanged
ige capital rose to 16.3 p.c., compared
12.1 p.c. in 1959, 10.4 p.c. in 1958,
p.c. in 1957 and 20.5 p.c. in 1956.
le dividend rate was 1 p.c. higher at
;., and absorbed £127,710. Reserves
ved £103,869, and also benefited by
added realisation reserve and
9 reduction in intangibles. Reserves
reduced by £21,384 unexplained
ictions and £9858 intangibles written
and were disclosed at £823,959
iect to £726,421 intangibles).
quidity was slightly lower but the
retical working capital (down £20,075
■726,429) looked adequate. Stocks
were £49,745 higher at £858,408. Book
debts increased by £74,229 to £614,720.
Bank overdraft jumped by £154,393 to
£175,813:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1958. 1959. 1960.
Paid capital .. £1,419,000 £1,419,000 £1,419,000
Reserves . . . . 683,742 741,273 823,959
Outside interests . . 192,059 202,831 209,584
Mortgage . . .. 104,715 102,139 99,557
Convertible notes.. 354,750 354,750
Overdraft .. 386,104 21,420 175,813
Creditors .. .. 202,813 220,158 200,226
Tax provision .. 120,032 149,662 179,470
Staff funds .. 145,703 142,328 109,337
Final div. .. 63,855 70,950 85,140
£3,318,023 £3,424,511 £3,656,836
Freeholds.. .. 541,329 593,892 598,664
Plant, etc. .. 652,395 743,417 855,336
Stocks .. .. 809,647 808,663 858,408
Fire-claims .. 80,474
Debtors .. .. 502,190 540,491 614,720
Cash, etc. .. 1,666 1,868 3,287
Intangibles .. 730,322 736,180 726,421
£3,318,023 £3,424,511 £3,656,836
Creditors were lower. Book value of
fixed assets increased. Net tangible asset
backing works out at 10s. Bd. for each
10s. ord. unit.
The new Wodonga factory was said
to be very successful in its first year of
operations. The New Zealand plant con-
tinues to show improving results.
Current year “has again opened
strongly.” However, Lamson Paragon's
prosperity is closely linked with the
general state of commerce and industry,
and the present credit “squeeze” and
deflationary measures may adversely
affect the final results.
At the last sale in Melbourne the 10s.
ords. changed hands at 16s. lOd. a unit.
The immediate yield is 5.3 p.c. on the
basis of the new 9 p.c. dividend rate.
The 10s. 6j p.c. conv. notes fetched 16s.
9d., for an immediate return of 3.8 p.c.
On the whole Lamson Paragon’s scrip
has shown encouraging resilience on an
uncertain sharemarket.
Cemac Associated Ltd
Last term was highlighted by a one-
for-five bonus issue and the acquisition
of Boa Constructors Pty and associated
cos. In addition, Cemac's subsidiary
(Cemac Rosebery Pty) took over Veneer
and Plywood Pty (softwood millers) for
cash and an issue of Cemac shares. 1 his
lifted paid capital to £355,551 in 1,422,205
ss. fully paid ords. Group net profit
increased and the earning rate improved.
A steady 124 p.c. dividend rate was
maintained.
Converted to public status in 1956,
Cemac Associated Ltd is a manufacturer,
importer, distributor and contractor of
plywoods, veneers, etc.
The group is based in Mascot (a
Sydney suburb) and has branches and
subsidiaries in Yarras (N.S.W.), Mel-
bourne and Cairns (Q.). Last term total
group turnover (excluding inter - co.
transactions) rose from £1,673,525 to
£2,205,776.
Consolidated net profit for the year
ended June 30, 1960, was £27,559 higher
at £73,293, after providing £17,346 for
depreciation and setting aside £67,375 for
taxation (up £36,564).
The tax provision seems rather high
on consolidated net earnings disclosed.
The earning rate on the higher average
one-class capital improved from 27.5 p.c.
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
R. H. ALLEN, M. R. L. DOWLING,
P. R, LEVY, A, P. REYNOLDS, N, R.
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner).
Delfln House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building, 150 Queen St.,
Melbourne. 67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney.
Melbourne, or Wollongong.
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRATER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National .Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: "NEVITTCO”
Phone: SI 27« l
(4 Lines)
P.O. Box
No. 1887 W
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
Ralph W. King & Yuill
33 Blijfh St., ‘JO O’Connell St., Sydney.
2-0137.
84 William St., Melbourne. 67-5089.
310 Queen Street, Brisbane, 31-2191.
Cables: “RALPH KING,” Sydney, Mel-
bourne and Brisbane.
Branehes at Grafton and Armidale.
Telegraphic and Cable Address:
“Hatinax” Sydney.
Hattersley & Maxwell
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone: B\V 1771—8 W 8088.
THE WILD CAT
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies .. .. .. 2/—
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6


in 1959 to 29.3 p.c. (31 p c
1958 and 25 p.c. in 1957)-X:
Parent and Subsidiaries.® .5
_ To Re- J
Jne. Profit. Dividend. serves. sLg
30, £ p.c. £ £ BF
Share expenses w/off, £1467 1
Over-provision for tax, £2571 9
’57..20,037 10 = 8,000 12,037 &
Share premiums, £21,636 .. 4
Assets revalued, £2566 .. M
Capital profit, £3 . . .. 4
Added on consolidation,
£17,982 K
’5B. .35,990 121= 20,419 15,57 i .1;
Less decrease consolidation re- 9
serve, £8 . . .. .. 71
’59..45,734 121= 20,774 24,960 rfflVl
Share premiums, £134,818.. 2362
Increase intangibles, £30,725 201
’60..73,293 121= 31,308 41,985 2852
* Subject to intangibles, £37,1981
30/6/’6O.
The steady 12| p.c. div.-rate
the higher capital abson
£31,308. Reserves benefi.
by £41.985 and also by £ 13411-
share premiums but werefe
duced by £30,725 increase,
intangibles on consolidat
and were disclosed at £250,,
(subject to £37,198 int
gibles).
After the close of accq i
the co. declared a one-for-
bonus issue from share!
miums, arising from finan:
takeovers by share issues
premium. This lifted paid c
tal to £355,551.
Consolidated balance sh
shows substantial rises in|
book values of fixed assets:
Cemac Associated and Subsidiaru
1959 19t
Paid capital .. £166,199 £2soj
Reserves .. 104,334 251
Outside interest
Mortgages, etc.. . 57,240 101
Overdraft .. 85,744 199
Creditors .. 133,036 362,
Tax provision .. '31,275 67,
Final dividend.. 10,387 15,
£588,215 £1,247,
Freeholds .. 102,677 lsfl^
Leaseholds .. 2,229 50,
Plant, etc. .. 73,520 15f
Shares . . .. 88 1,
Stock .. .. 178,846 274,
Debtors .. 221,673 538/
Intangibles .. 2,391 37i
Jash, ebc. .. 6, <9l 7;
£588,215 £ 1,247,
Loans, bank overdraft, sund
creditors, book debts and cl
rent stocks were considerat
higher. Liquidity was sat
factory.
Net tangible asset backii
works out at Bs. 7d. for eat
ss. ord. after the bonus issi
calculated on consolidati
figures.
The co. has a good earniit
and dividends record and <
encouraging rate of growt
The current unfavorable crec
situation could dampen ear:
ings this term, but otherwi
the future outlook seems goo
At the last sale in Sydney tl
ss. ords. fetched 11s. 3d. ft
each ss. ord. unit. The in
mediate yield is 5.6 p.c. on tl
basis of the steady p.c. div
dend distribution.
Be part of
Australia’s
Expansion
with.
▲
ACCEPTANCE LIMITED
Top to bottom:
QLD : Torbreck
home units. Bris.
VIC : Hicks
Atkinson Ltd.. Melb.
W.A.: John Allans.
“Champions of
W A Made '.
N S W.: Cowell's
White House Ptv.
Ltd., Sydney.
S A : David Murray
Stores Ltd.
<<•:;<
9B
*i
£**
r
»
■r
*
it
Shown here are just a few of the opera-
ting companies of the Reid Murray group.
All told these include: 202 Retail Stores,
7 Wholesale Warehouses, Real Estate
Companies in 5 States, and the Finance
Co. for the group Reid Murray Accept-
ance Ltd. An investment in Reid Murray
Acceptance Ltd. is an investment in one
of Australia's best backed Companies.
Applications accepted only on forms attached
to the Prospectus. Available from:
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67-1924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melb.
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William Street, Adelaide
Members of Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.
P.A. for 8 and 10 years
REG. FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
0
0
0
0
0
0
4
P.A.—5 YEARS
PAID-UP CAPITAL
£6,000,000
GUARANTEED BY REID MURRAY HOLDINGS LTD.


>Mk Preserves Ltd
?J ts two factories, one at
dnnbulk (about 30 miles
aMelbourne), the other at
Monbulk Preserves
'-ms-out a variety of jams,
f fruit and preserves.
§mg cos. are :
) Camm and Sons Pty ;
Wamm and Sons (Tas.)
VnfModel Preserving Co.
i L Jinks and Morgan Pty.
"995 the late D. T. Camm
;d:berry - fruitgrowing in
.i. In 1912 he established
II jam-making plant at
4!lk. In 1930 D. Camm
•n-ns Pty was formed to
3-er the business, and
2KS were marketed for the
nime under the now
f oown M o n b u 1 k label,
it the organisation crossed
:<?Strait, setting -up in
.. In 1957, after graduat-
iqpublic status, the group
bd Model Preserving Co.
sliding the Home Maid
t to its lines.
a:teen months ago, Mon-
-55. ords. traded on
ae at around 10s. but
q u e n t publication of
its (the 1958-59 accounts)
I profits down £26,500 at
» and share prices slipped
bd. The chairman, at the
Mr P. J. Camm, referring
diminished profit, said
considered satisfactory
regard to the intense
tition in both the home
1 port markets.”
i ipetition is still intense
rough latest figures (for
i months to September 30
now a slight increase on
of the 1958-59 term (up
rt £45,475) prospects arc
mducive of investor in-
The ords. sold as low
Bd. last week.
" since 1952, when the
market suddenly receded
; at year sugar and various
Ifoods were taken off the
in the U.K., and English
imanufacturers resumed
1 production Monbulk
d to rely more and more
:al demand for disposal
ams. Today only 10 p.c.
istralian jam production
its way overseas. Mon-
rountered diminished ex-
income from jam by
ig up overseas sales of
i fruits, by product diver-
on, and by intensive ex-
ion of the local market,
lgs responded, so much
at during 1953-57 total
'er of the group increased
ds of 95 p.c. But as with
o with canned fruits ; the
1 fruit export trade
id badly in 1958-59 and
las, since then, been little
, sign of recovery. For-
ly sales in the Australian
t have been maintained,
though at a less profitable
margin—“increased production
and sales have offset higher
costs and lower returns during
the year.”
The Australian canned fruit
industry, very largely depen-
dent on exports for its income,
is extremely sensitive to com-
petition, particularly from low-
cost producers such as South
Africa, Malaya and California.
Over 50 p.c. of Australia’s
output is shipped abroad, and
of this over 90 p.c. to the U.K.
The whole situation is aggra-
vated by conditions of world
surplus. Possibly the best out-
let for local production lies in
increased home consumption
(as was the case with jam), but
this, of course, is a long-term
rather than a short-term solu-
tion.
Monbulk’s profit, last term,
was ascertained after setting
aside £25,871 for tax (up £721)
and £16,305 for depreciation
(up £898). Equal to only 16.5
p.c. (by itself a reasonable
figure) of paid capital as
against 16.2 p.c. in 1958-59, it
fails to measure up to previous
earning rates: 31 p.c. in 1957-
58, 27.1 p.c. in 1956-57. Little
solace attaches the co.’s one-
for-five par issue, early 1958-59,
which lifted paid capital £46,000
to £276,000:
Consolidated Accounts.
To Re- Re-
Sept. Prft. , —Dividends— > serves, serves.*
30, £ p.c. £ £ £
Prelim, exp. w/off, £6006.. 12,981
Provn. long-service, £5844.. 18,825
’57..62,270 10 = 23,000 39,270 58,095
Provn. long-service, £3398. . 54,697
'58..71,226 10 = 25,352 45,874 100,571
Plant written-off, £2961 . . 97,610
’59..44,726 10 = 27,600 17,126 114,'730
’60..45,475 10 = 27,600 17,875 132,611
* After deducting intangibles, £29,654
at September 30, 1960.
Still, the usual 10 p.c. div. was
covered with a fair degree of
ease, leaving £17,875 for trans-
fer to reserves.
Questing more efficacious
AU WAIIA AND NEW ZEALAND
savings bank limited
K'-
m
s
A
V
N
G
S
ACCOU
N
T
The easy way to save
Open an A.N.Z. Savings Bank Account for a new experience
in modern banking service. You’ll like the way deposits and
withdrawals can be made quickly and easily . . . the fact that,
no matter how much you wish to take out, there’s no need
for notice of withdrawal . . . the convenient A.N.Z. Pass Book . . .
the friendly, personalised service. You’ll appreciate too, the wide
range of helpful extra A.N.Z. Bank services
that you are entitled to use as a customer of
A.N.Z. Savings Bank. Read about these in
the booklet “Getting to know your A.N.Z.
Bank’’ . . . available at all branches.
ass
A
ANZ
{jou'Qll fUsl<&, aJz
A.N.Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
Cheque Accounts — Savings Accounts
ANZ620.24


control of costs and increased
efficiency of the merchandising
and distribution functions,
Monbulk has relocated its
head-office (previously at Port
Melbourne) and central admini-
strative staff. Last term saw
erection of a modern office
block, plus further warehouse
space, at Monbulk.
Ihe co. continued develop-
ment of its berry farms at Mon-
bulk and Oyster Cove (Tas.)
but returns, in the current year,
will not be up to expectations
ciue to the abnormal heatwave
conditions which prevailed dur-
ing last December, critically, at
harvest time. The restricted
harvesting conditions preclude
100 p.c. utilisation of cold
storage and deep freeze facili-
ties (recently installed at Mon-
bulk and now fully operative)
and the co., in consequence, is
unable to fulfil all orders for
frozen fruits —“a substantial
new' outlet has been established
for one new berry variety for
America, but only limited
quantities can be supplied this
year ...”
The close of accounts saw
finances generally comfortable.
Working capital appeared to be
adequate. The book-value of
plant was up £26,201 ; freeholds
rose £3705: —
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1958. 1959. 1900.
£ a £
Paid capital.. 230,000 276,000 276,000
Application
money .. 40,502
Reserves .. 100.571 114,736 132,611
Deposits .. 191,817 186,430 175,553
M"i cage .. 9,653 34.550 31.750
Overdraft .. 180,351 156.329 144,880
Cr.ditors .. 159,002 143,724 167,451
Long-service
provision .. 10.314 9.872 10.522
Tax provision 46,813 25,976 27.950
Final dividend 13,800 13,800 13,800
988,803 961,117 980,847
Freeholds .. 205,885 229,447 233,152
Plant .. 136,922 146,338 172,539
Investments .. SOB 4,595 1,672
Sto<k .. 582.203 475,463 458,533
Debtors .. 62,705 104,994 114,671
Cash .. 280 280 280
988,803 961,117 980,847
Meantime competition con-
tinues keen and costs have risen
further—prices for sugar and
other basic materials have in-
creased —but a hard-slugging
advertising programme together
with certain inevitable price in-
creases plus the elimination of
certain unprofitable lines plus a
general and patently clear
managerial cost consciousness,
augurs a satisfactory outcome,
at least in the current term —
sales, so far. have held their
own.
At 6s. Bd. Monbulk’s ss. ords.
offer an immediate yield of 7.5
p.c. Net tangible backing is
7s. 5d
Y& 3
% Ti y
i
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Fii hf/s Exceed
£A363,000,000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
' HAVE YOU
l.!f
TRIED
this r
a feature of
TV* AuttrW—
Womans Mirror
GET YOUR COPY TODAY
HA,
■
k '
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters
Id eal for farms, stations and for
hot-water systems, and household
requirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last a
lifetime. La rge quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvi-
linear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines and Ellison Switch Gear
COMPANY NOTES
Coles Rights
A lthough the glamorous past
of G. J. Coles Ltd mignt
wisely be forgotten, there is
still the progressive future to
look forward to and, Wool-
worths having so well and
rapidly digested its huge take-
overs to report an increased
earning rate on increased capi-
tal, there is every expectation
that the Coles organisation will
achieve something comparable
in the not distant future.
G. J. Coles Ltd paid a
huge “price'’ for the Matthew
4 hompson chain of stores last
year. Indeed, it was widely
held that the company’s bid
was far higher than the over-
all value of the acquisition
could warrant, and Coles shares
were progressively marked
down on the Stock Exchanges.
But the Woolworths experience
suggests that the Coles down-
marking might have been ex-
cessive and imprudent.
The current three - for - ten
issue of capital by Coles is
bringing rights on to the market
at about the 6s. mark, giving
entry into the company at
about 11s. —a most attractive
price which, with continuation
of the previous 11 p.c. divi-
dend, would ensure a first-rate
yield of 5 p.c. to the investor.
The shares at about 11s. 6d.,
ex-rights, are equally enticing.
Finance Corp. New Issue
Pinance Corporation of
Australia Ltd, Adelaide
hire-purchase and finance co.,
is making an issue of 1,000,000
10s. ords., one-for-three at par.
The new shares are payable
2s. 6d. on application, the
balance to be called up in
three 2s. 6d. calls on Novem-
ber 1, 1961 ; May 1, 1962 and
November 1, 1962.
The issue will raise , e
capital to £1,626,137 and Li
capital to £2,011,375. B<fi
close on March 24, and a«
cations will be received \
May 1. New shares will-1 1
for dividend from May If
the amount paid up on ij c
date.
Based in Adelaide, Finin
Corp. of Australia has IT
interstate
enjoys the backing of the El
of Adelaide, which holdsib
p.c. of the ordinary capital
the co.
The co. reports that j J
profit for six months to Depa
ber 31, 1960, was £53E< :
higher at £152,021, compiq
with the previous correspond
period. The earning rates
the half-year was 22.11
calculated on the average
capital.
OIL AND MINING
United Uranium N.L.
'Tvirectors report that mic
was suspended for the
season on December 17, 1‘
At that date there was suffic;
ore stockpiled at the treatli
plant to ensure continuity
milling operations until mi
and cartage of ore can be
sumed after the wet seasoi
Milling of ore was suspen
on December 10, 1960,1
resumed on January 9,1!
after the normal annual 1<
period.
Lots 16 to 19
the 1961 delivery quota!
uranium oxide were shipped
January to the United Kj
dom Atomic Energy Author
Lot 20 has been compl®
since milling operations!
sumed and is in Port Adela
awaiting shipment.
The ss. fully paid ords.i
changed hands at 3s. lOd. ei
at Sydney.
Oil Development N.L. ,
/~\il Development N.L.
ports that the Penola
No. 1 in South Austrs
advanced 364 feet to a dej
of 2865 feet. The section cc
sisted of alternating mudsto;
siltstone and sandstone. A
inch casing was run a
cemented to 2488 feet. J
hole is being drilled ahead w
a sf-inch bit.
The company has be
granted a subsidy of £I4,C
by the Commonwealth Gove]
ment towards the cost of 1
well.


SERVICE DEPARTMENT
formation Sought
i did the Myei retail-store
i j- begin ?
ebusiness was founded by
Baerski Myer, who was born
nttrsaw in 18/9 and came to
a in 1897. With a brother
aed a shop in Bendigo, but
not prove a success, and
iin to trade trom door to
He then bought a cart and
1 through country towns,
. business prospered enough
v him to buy a business in
and establish several shops.
111. Myer bought the busi-
/Wright and Neil, Melbourne
and a new' building was
:ed in 1914. The Doveton
mills at Ballarat were
iin 1918, and in 1921 a new
. was added in Melbourne.
;on followed by more
lions and the formation ot
ic company, which by the
Myer s death (1934) had a
capital of nearly £2.500,000.
- is the history of the use
ttace ?
mace was originally a
, made of iron or steel,
i in battle by medieval
’ instead of the sword, so
jld conform to the canonical
rich forbade priests to shed
Sergeants-at-arms, a royal
trd established in France by
1, and in England probably
iard I, carried maces to pro-
: King, and these were the
icis of ceremonial maces,
maces, carried by sergeants-
, came into use about the
of the 13th century. The
) use these was contested
King’s sergeants, who were
the sole right to carry orna-
maces. But the privilege
ended to the sergeants ol
, and later to those of York
Norwich (1403) and Chester
By the seventeenth century
re in almost universal use.
t 1650 the custom of having
s' mace> ceased, and larger
ceremonial maces, borne before the
mayors or baiiias, were used. Ihe
mace for the House oi Commons
was maae in and is the one
in presem tnough the original
head was replaced at the Restora-
tion. The cailiest ot the two maces
in the House oi Lords dates trom
the reign ot William 111.
Other maces, more correctly called
staves, are tnose carried before
ecclesiastical dignitaries and those
of the universities, and date from
the sixteenth and seventeenth
centuries
What is the total extent of New
Zealand territory ?
Ihe lour major islands ol New
Zealand are North, South, Stewart
and Chatham, which have a total
area of 103,416 square-miles. Minor
islands are the inhabited Campbell
Island and the Kermadec Islands,
and (he uninhabited 1 hree Kings.
Snares. Solander, Antipodes.
Bounty and Auckland islands.
Ihe sc have a total area ol 320
square-nines. In addition there are
the island territories (the lokelau
L ands, the Cook Islands and
Niue. 203 square-miles), the 1 rust
Territory ol Western Samoa, 1133
square-miles, and the Ross Depend-
ency, 175.000 square-miles.
tor liow tong Has softball been
played in Australia ? Are there
softball associations, and is there
interstate or internatio'/Uii com-
petition ?
Sol (ball was lu st played in Aus-
II alia by young people attending
N.S.W. National Fitness Camps,
under the direction ol Got don Young.
1 he first organised games were held
in Melbourne during 1942-43 and
were lot American troops and Army
nuises. The game soon attracted
popularity and a Victorian Women's
Softball Association was formed.
Softball in Australia is almost
entirely played by women. There
are associations in each State, and
a national body, the Australian
Softball Council, which was formed
in 1949. Interstate matches are
held regularly. The Council is
affiliated with the Amateur Softball
Association, an international body,
but games arc so far played only
with New Zealand.
* - * m
What is the history of the terri-
torial dispute between China and
Tibet ?
Between the seventh and ninth
centuries a.d., Tibet was a success-
ful military power whose boun-
daries extended far into Shensi
(China) and for a time to the king-
dom ol Magadha (India). Later
the influence ot Buddhism lessened
aggressiveness and Tibet remained
in contact with, and was influenced
by, its Mongolian and Chinese
neighbors until early in the
eigmeenth century. Then K'Anghsi.
Manchu Emperor of China, invaded
the country and established officers
at Lhasa. Manchu authority in
"libel appears always to have been
loose, and by the end ol the nine-
teenth century was merely nominal.
In 1918 Chinese aggression on
the bolder led to successful retalia-
tion by libet. in which the Chinese
were driven beyond the uppci
waters ol the Yangtse. but in light-
ing in 1931-33 the libetans lost
ipost o! the territory which they
had gained in 1918. Since then
the Upper Yangtse has remained
loughly the de facto frontier
between libet and China.
In October, 1950, Chinese Com-
munist forces invaded Eastern
libel. Ihe Dalai Luma later lei t
Lhasa and set up his Government
at Yaiung. near the Sikkim Iron-
tier. On May 23. 1951, an agree-
ment was made by which 1 ibei
iccognised Chinese suzerainty. The
Communist army was allowed entry
into I ibet and a Communist
military and administrative head-
quarteis was set up.
A series ol revolts against
C hinese rule over several years cul-
minated on March 17, 1959, in a
firing in Lhasa. The rebellion was
suppressed and military rule
imposed. The Dalai Lama lied to
India and was granted political
asylum. On March 28. the Chinese
Prime Minister issued an order
dissolving the I ibetan Government
and selling up a Preparatory Corn-
rnittce foi the Tibetan Autonomous
Region, with the Panchen Lama as
Chairman.
• * m m
A brief description of the famous
Speight-Syme libel case ?
Richard Speight was appointed
chairman of the Victorian Railways
Commission in 1884. The colony
was then in the grip of a :.aid-
boom which resulted in a proposal
to spend £41.000,000 on new- rail-
ways. Syme, per media the Mel-
bourne “Age,” accused the Com-
missioners of mismanagement and
incompetence in Murch-June. 1892.
The Government suspended the
Commissioners, and Speight
launched an action against the
“Age,” claiming £25.000 damages.
Ihe trial opened in June, 1893.
and, after a hearing of 92 days,
resulted in a “general verdict" lor
Speight, with damages lixed at
£lOO. The judge rejected this ver-
dict, whereupon the jury returned
a veidict for £lOO on one count and
failed to agree on 10 others. Soon
after, though the case had cost the
"Age" £21,000 and Speight £BOOO,
the paper applied for a new trial.
This began in April, 1894, and
extended over 86 days. This time
the "Age" won on nine counts and
Speight on one, being granted a
farthing damages. Speight was
ruined, but though it had cost the
paper dear, the "Age" gained in
reputation as a defender of public
interest.
// rent is paid by the quarter,
when do the quarters fall ?
Ihe English quarter-days, mark-
ing the beginning of each quarter,
fall on March 25 (Lady Day), June
24 (Midsummer Day), September 29
(Michaelmas Day) and December
25 (Christmas Day). The days vary
in Scotland, where the quarter-days
are May 15 (Whitsun), November
I I (Martinmas), February 2 (Candle-
mas) and August 1 (Lammas).
American quarters begin on the
first day ol January, April, July
and October.
The Bulletin" Crossword No. 635
Across
nchester bowlers? (6. 8)
nchestei to feature a serpent. (II)
?vv what is ignorant. (3)
act ol drastic censorship by two boys is
estrained. (9)
12—F erme n t e d hops? 1 hat's
swell! (4)
15 —Turned her tree —nothing original
in that! (6)
17 — -Skylight followers of the Pied
Piper are back. (4)
18 — Boy is loud when penniless. (3)
20 — Chaldea's capital and Chaldea’s
capital needs Lew for a Hier. (3)
21 — Father interrupting us with
deadly vegetable poison. (4)
22 — Strike into a good Scandina-
vian. (2. 4)
25 — Ruse affected an employer. (4)
26 Auto pronoun fired a girl. (9)
28 —Sauce feature. (3)
30 — Manchester groups of cricketing
“rabbits" and rabbits. (II)
31 — Miles Franklin work what wags
a complement to 1066? (3, 4,7)
Down
1 — Bird with a second basilisk. (10)
2 Records that queer music. (11)
3 Nothing where there’s nothing
like an egg. (5)
4 Is turning my holding on the
crime of buying a benefice. (6)
5 One sister to make an assigna-
tion flood. (8)
6 Whose prospects aren’t
good? (2-5)
7 Provide power for a galley
rumpus. (3)
8— Hamlet’s home? (3)
13 — How’s flour like orphans of
independent spirit? (4-7)
14 — Blame is not for him who
approves the dollar. (10)
16—Point occupied by such a figure
by iHell with a hundred to
do. (6-3)
19 -City in California knifed
thanks. (8)
23 — Some pleasure in a theatre
attraction. (5)
24 — Police not pleased by such a
famous American tenor. (6)
27 —A couple of fifties—that's the
lot. (3)
29 —Father is over 50 according to
the rising circuit friend. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 634


An unsurpassed investment
guide and reference—
%e
ft
99
;
1
1
MIT Or r-.
Publislikd by
i
SS
tin
&
21-
per single
copy
• A review of :
ECONOMIC, MARKET
and
FINANCIAL CONDITIONS,
COMPANY ACCOUNTS
and
OIL AND MINING ACTIVITIES
/6
a year,
post free
a
*‘The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” gives the - complete and comprehensive
analysis of company accounts, in addition to its mining comments and
economic forecasts.
It is thoroughly indexed on a continuous basis, and the pages are stitched
together for permanent reference.
Facilities are available for binding each twelve issues on an annual basis.
The ‘Wild Cat' Monthly,"
BOX 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
