

The Bulletin
PROTESTANTISM TODAY
* B Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
Famine
in China
What is
a Lion?
The Rights of
Public Servants


for YOUR SONS
0
and
their
mi
A
SONS’
&
11
There is a quality called leadership. In
business, one way we measure it is by sales.
In 1960, as in every year since the formation
of International Harvester in America, the
world-wide group of I.H. companies sold
more farm equipment than any other organi-
sation in the world. In 1960 I.H. farm
equipment sales were almost 17 percent
ahead of the second company, about 20
percent ahead of the third.
Why?
Why should farmers, the world around, make
and keep one company the leader?
There are many reasons. Four, perhaps,
stand out.
The first is that our machines are good. We
believe they are the best. They do what they
are supposed to do. They keep on doing
it for years. And their prices are always
competitive.
The secondx is that I.H. farm equipment, in
Australia and throughout the free world, is
hacked by an unequalled service organisation
of experienced and competent dealers. You
can always get service, good service, on an
I.H. product.
A third reason is I.H. experience . . . experi-
ence culminating in the building of the vast
I.H. Farm Equipment Works at Geelong .
headquarters for Australia’s largest range of
tractors and other farm equipment. No other
company year-in-and-year-out devotes the
manpower, the money, and the facilities to
development of new farm equipment that I.H.
does. This is part of a determination to lead;
oi a deep belief that how good we are is more
important than how big we are.
Finally, there is PERMANENCE. Industries
change, particular companies come and go.
But our business began 130 years ago when
Cyrus Hall McCormick first demonstrated
the reaper. It has served farmers ever since
throughout the world, for more than a
century. Generation alter generation, they
have used our products.
When farmers buy International Harvester
equipment, they know that however long they
keep it, wherever they choose to use it,
International Harvester will be there, ready
and able to serve them, and their sons, and
their sons’ sons.
MiL'-J/'.'lm'. t .U' V 1 vU'« r -’ w'i
■ ••-. V" w.* ‘ r/ "yr isiSSHla •.;,.; :• 1 •; •• r. s .. • ••'■_
K'-wPA* n* ;*•vr- v'O**■
t'-v'fv* OT.ivi‘4) 1i ‘iV/ 4* Jtf X&V£>; k\V?i
y
PTI 332/ H 123/55
..(V, S
... •"',- % -."I/'
•ti| • <- ~,r .’< H ‘ ?
, ,',vjv>..."
-im,. ,:■■•!-if
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER


The
Bulletin
JUNE 10, 1961
Vol. 82
No. 4243
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
H.K.: The resemblance to any
persons who have ever lived is
altogether too coincidental....
J. They have cars in the out-
back nowadays, radio and planes
—take a trip out there before writ-
ing your next story... .W.H.:
That nymphet is too immature to be
convincing. ... H.S.M.: Your space
story never got into orbit....
K. : If you want to imitate
private-eye stories you might at
least give them a local setting. . . .
M.M.: You can tell what things
happened ; so does a newspaper —
we want to know why they hap-
pened and what they felt like....
A.V.: Hollywood might be inter-
ested K.T.: You’ve got a situa-
tion there, and some feeling about
it, but you haven’t quite made a
poem... .B.R.: Nearly. .. .E.D.:
Schoolboy standard.... M.E.B.:
You achieve a fine rhetorical flow
because you are not talking about
anything specific. .. .J.P.M.: All
right as far as they go....but it
isn’t far enough. .. .J.B.: More
philosophic than poetic....
A.M.G.: Sing it with a jazz band.
— J.H.C.: You’re a brave moiler
and toiler. ... J.A.M.: Pleasant but
unexciting. .. .K.K.: Do you
always write with a grease-gun?
— E.B., O.W.R., S.J.K., B.K.,
H.McK.: Well observed, but... .
S.B.: No, we don’t want to hang
your scribble over our bed....
S.F.: Ail your sentiments are mild.
• ...V.McC.: “Hip-hip-hooray, to-
morrow is another day !’’.... C.W.:
You’ve invented new metrics, all
right—let’s call them Flat-foot
Floosies... . P.S.: We’ve had night-
mares for a week after reading your
warning: —
— G.W.: If the subject bores
you, you’ll probably write boringly.
— L.G.: A mere literary exercise.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street.
Sydney; Box 2521; Phone: 27 5971
Bailisks writhe in rotting deeps,
Umgrunt, sicklurch, rising with the
setting sun,
Swarming in search of prey,
in suburbia, so dull, so grey,
Where suburban man, complacent,
sleeps,
Convinced that he has won, has
won.
WHY?
Low Life in the Short Story?
A s we explained last week, we have deliberately not published a short
story in this issue to dramatise the fact that we think that some of
the short stories we have been publishing are no good. We want to
encourage discussion on why this is so. When the discussion is over we shall
publish a statement on what we think is wrong with many of our short
stories and what we hope to do about it. If there is no discussion we may
draw conclusions from that.
One thing that has already emerged from private conversation is that
some people feel that there are stereotypes of subject matter for Bulletin
short stories; that the same themes are treated over and over again,
reflecting an endless preoccupation with “out” life, with the kind of life
that is not lived by most Bulletin readers, with—if you like —“low life.”
Treating “out groups” as the only proper subject of fiction has become part
of the Australian literary tradition. One result of this may be that those who
are not especially interested in this kind of life may not bother to write
short stories at all —or bother to read them.
If this is true it may be that too many of our short stories are a stale
left-over from the old bohemian and underdog preoccupations; this may
help to explain why Australian short stories often seem old-fashioned and
divorced from the kind of life that interests their readers. What we would
like to see more of are short stories that deal (perhaps satirically) with,
say, managing directors, or judges, or surgeons, or professors, or depart-
mental under-secretaries, or Cabinet Ministers, or graziers—and women.
When many of the present writers touch on these classes of persons they
merely caricature them. Perhaps we shall not get this kind of theme in
short stories until some new people a little less “out” than usual
start writing.
Of course, subject matter is not the whole story. When handled bril-
liantly, low life is still as good a subject as any. Unfortunately the
technical skill with which it is treated is often of very low order. Some
stories meander from beginning to end without ever really capturing any
kind of interest. Their authors seem to assume that it is the duty of the
reader to plough through all this prose as a service to Australian letters.
Connected with this is the demand that The Bulletin do its bit by
simply publishing the best of what comes along. We are expected to
encourage people “to write,” even if their writing does not deserve en-
couragement. It is hard to see how publishing bad work achieves anything
except the encouragement of low standards—and the destruction of high
standards. It may be that we should publish less, perhaps paying more for
what we do publish. Perhaps we should define “creative writing” more
widely so that it includes more than the short story. We shall see what sug-
gestions come up. But we feel bound to say that we do not believe that
there is any necessary virtue in the mere acts of writing and publication.
It is what is written and published that matters.


This Australia
ABORIGINES
The Tragedy of
Robert Tudawali
FROM K. G. WILLEY IN DARWIN
ROBERT FEDAWAIT
"Quite a record"
The lot of the aborigine —in the
Northern Territory at least —can be
pretty near to Lotus Land. He doesn't
have to work, unless he feels like it.
His tucker is supplied. If he has the
energy to “book in” at the nearest Gov-
ernment settlement he will be looked
after from the cradle to the grave.
But now and then one rises above the
norm, sometimes almost by accident. Rex
Battarbee taught the camel boy Albert
Namatjira to paint. Charles Chauvel
picked Robert Tudawali to play Marbuk
in a film called “Jedda.”
Like Namatjira, Tudawali was dif-
ferent. From the days when the playing
of Australian Rules football revived in
Darwin, after the war, Tudawali was a
well-known town identity. He was known
then as Bobby Wilson and he was a star
half-forward for the aboriginal team,
Wanderers, in the Darwin competition.
With his team-mates he knew the
humiliation of being sent home early
from inter-club football parties as the
Wanderers always had to be out of the
way before the grog could be “turned
on.” Tudawali kept on playing football
right up to last season. A good high
mark, exceptional kick, a little taller than
the usual short native stature, he was
a beauty, sportwise.
Then he became a film actor. His
“leading lady” in Jedda was a pretty
colored girl billed as Ngarla Kunoth.
Miss Kunoth, after her filmmaking in the
south, returned to Alice Springs, where
her deeply tragic personal life ended last
year in a decision to become a nun.
Tudawali’s story has been different, and
has shown its own brand of sheer guts.
He came back to Darwin, contracted
TB, sank into obscurity and depression.
With some help from Mr Chauvel,
among others —he pulled out of that.
Today, though he must be over 30, he
is the same wiry, bearded athlete as ever.
But he has learnt a lot through his
Australia-wide travels. He is sophisti-
cated, speaks far better than most white
men. He dresses neatly in a white shirt
and long pants. After his successful
appearance in the south last year on the
TV outdoors show, “Whiplash,” he has
become deeply interested in continuing
his career as an actor and even now is
hoping for new parts in Melbourne.
But Tudawali is not a citizen. Like
most of his people in the Northern Terri-
tory he is a ward of the Government
Welfare Branch which, among other
things, prohibits him from drinking
alcohol. And Robert Tudawali, like most
of us, enjoys a drink of beer.
Because of this he appears periodically
in the Darwin Police Court, invariably
on offences connected with liquor. He
was up again a few days ago, and when
fining him £2 plus 10s. costs, the magis-
trate, Mr Lemaire, S.M., warned Tuda-
wali: “You are getting quite a record.”
Sometimes the penalties are not so
light. Eighteen months ago Tudawali was
jailed for six months for supplying a
fellow aboriginal with a drink. His appeal
was rejected and his time to be led away
came up on Christmas Day, 1959. He
dined on wild turkey at Bagot Com-
pound, that Christmas Day, then served
his term in Fannie Bay Jail.
The list of convictions will not end
here. Tudawali’s tragedy is greater, per.
haps, than Namatjira’s, because Albert
remained a tribal man, and could take
comfort among his own Arandas. He
had fellow artists among the natives to
talk to and with whom to share a com-
mon interest and a common trouble,
But in the primitive but detribalised
society of Darwin’s Bagot Compound,
Tudawali is alone. Bagot Compound
houses several hundred semi - civilised
natives within the Darwin city limits,
Tudawali lives there with his mother,
one-eyed Maggie, his wife Peggy, and
his two children.
To his fellows, his claim to respect is
as a footballer. They know rather
vaguely—that he is an actor of some
sort. But it doesn't register much. The
adults are almost all illiterate. Their
knowledge of acting is confined to
“Tomarris” (Tom Harris’s picture
theatre), and they don't see Tudawali on
screen there. To them he remains Bobby
Wilson, a darn good footballer—and
among the Bagot natives Australian
Rules football is almost a religion.
Tudawali has been quoted in the south,
at times, as being bitter about the plight
of his people. In Darwin he is more
subdued. He once told a local pressman:
“When the Welfare Branch thinks I am
ready to be a citizen they will make me
one.”
SCIENCE
Filter-tipped Cigarettes
FROM A CORRESPONDENT
WE wouldn’t argue with that,” said
a cigarette-manufacturer’s spokes-
man in Brisbane last week. “We favor
filters because it’s cheaper to fill one end
of a cigarette with a plug than with an
equivalent amount of tobacco.”
The spokesman was commenting on a
statement published in the latest issue of
“Choice,” the journal of the Australasian
Consumers’ Association Ltd, after the
association had conducted extensive
laboratory tests on Australian-made
cigarettes. “None of the filter tips tested,”
says “Choice,” “were of the slightest
use in removing total solids [nicotine,
tars, etc.] from the smoke.”
An efficient filter can, of course, be
made, says “Choice,” but all a smoker
gets through it is “a mouthful of tasteless
air.” An American firm used such a
filter in one of its brands for a while,
but soon had to replace it with a less-
efficient one.
The Consumers’ Association tested 17
brands of filter and 12 of non-filters
.... “Ten packets of 20 cigarettes each
were bought of each brand and type and
every effort was made to see that no
more than two packets of each brand
were bought in the same locality. This
was to ensure that our sample did not
come from only one particular manu-
facturers’ batch.”
Some of the cigarettes were used for
weighing and mearuring ; the rest were
“smoked’ by a retort-like apparatus
“designed to simulate the puffing of a
human cigarette-smoker.” With an air-
tight rubber membrane for lips, a fin e
fibre-glass filter for a throat, and a
mechanical pump for lungs, the appara-
tus took a two-second “draw” of 3)
millilitres every 60 seconds.
“The filter,” says “Choice,” “traps
virtually everything in the smoke, except
gases, and by weighing the filter-holder
assembly with its filter before and after
smoking eight cigarettes, the weight o
the total solids in the smoke is measure
and an average obtained.”
The report adds that every cigarette


tested was smoked down to the same
| ell gth of butt (25 millimetres). And
even though the smaller cigarettes gave
fewer puffs than the longer ones, “the
range of total solids varied from 25 to
48 milligi' arns , whereas the smoked length
0 f cigarette ranged only from 46 to 55
millimetres.” This means, the report
claims, that “the different amounts of
solids found were due considerably to
tobacco variations and not solely to the
s j Z e of the cigarettes.”
j Most of the brands yielded between
130 and 40 milligrams of solids per
'cigarette, irrespective of size and weight.
Filters averaged 35.5 milligrams per
cigarette ; non-filters 34.5.
Among the surprises of the tests:
An almost unknown brand of filters
j gave the lowest solids yield (25mgs.).
One much-advertised brand gave the
highest yield for both filters and
non-filters (48mgs. in each case).
@ The medium-strength variety of
another well-known brand yielded
one milligram less of solids than the
same brand of “special milds.”
One cigarette manufacturer is unwilling
to comment on the Consumers' Associa-
tion findings until the rest of them —
covering analysis of the solids yielded by
each brand —are published in next
month’s “Choice.” But some of the brands
tested were new on the market, says one
manufacturer, and new brands, not hav-
ing to be produced in great volume at
first, are often made under conditions of
speed, temperature, humidity, etc., which
favor a low yield of solids ; whereas
established brands cannot always be
produced under the same favorable
conditions at the required rate.
COMMUNIST CONGRESS
The June Stakes
L. L. SHARKEY
Tiring
FROM A CORRESPONDENT
U/hen the delegates from all over Aus-
tralia meet in Sydney in June for
the 19th National Congress of the Com-
munist Party it should be beset with
many problems. But they have already
been solved in the usual fashion of party
“democracy.”
For the greatest problem was simply
how to stifle discussion of the real issues
at the Conference, since there are, sur-
prisingly enough, still some misguided
individuals like Victorian 8.W.1.U.
organiser Mr Geoff McDonald—now
lexpelled—who believe that problems can
and should be discussed within the party.
Another problem is the interesting one
of succession to the position of National
President, and possibly also of General
Secretary. The National Presidency falls
vacant because Mr Richard Dixon is still
ailing in Moscow. Mr Jackie McPhillips,
who has been building himself up as the
Party’s industrial and trade-union expert,
has got the succession sewn up in his
favor, though Mr J. R. Hughes has also
been mentioned as a possibility.
The question of the General Secretary-
ship is more iffy. Mr Lance Sharkey is
visibly tiring, and his position is under-
lined. He may be replaced this year or
Nay hang on. If he is replaced Mr
Laurie Aarons is ready and waiting to
ste P into the position.
For Laurie Aarons membership of the
Party is something of a family affair.
Lncle Sam is President in Western Aus-
halia. Eric is trying to hold things
together in Newcastle, and two sisters are
active workers in Sydney. Laurie Aarons
huriself is a product of the party machine,
a smooth and experienced operator, who,
among other things, is regarded as the
party’s Asian specialist.
His main rival for the General Secre-
taryship has been Mr E. F. (Ted) Hill,
a barrister who is Secretary of the State
Party in Victoria. Hill is a ruthless
unbending autocrat, an intellectual who
wants to be the party’s sole intellectual.
His “candidature” had the ardent and
able support of Bernie Taft.
But see how democratically these
decisions were made. While Dixon and
Sharkey were in Moscow and Laurie
Aarons was holding the reins, two co-
incidences occurred. First, Ted Hill was
summoned to Moscow, and is still there.
Second, Bernie Taft was summoned to
Moscow as well. Both will be absent
from the Congress.
Thus the basic decisions have been
made before the Conference meets. No
one can outmanoeuvre the ruling Sydney
clique.
If things in the party went by desserts,
the successor to Sharkey should rather
be an outsider, Mr Claude Jones, of
Queensland. The most successful party
operation, industrially and politically, is
in that State, and Jones, an intellectual,
is State President.
At present the betting for the June
Stakes is:
PRESIDENT:
J. McPhillips . . 10 to 1 on.
J. R. Hughes . . 50 to 1 against.
SECRETARY:
L. Aarons . . . . 100 to 1 on.
E. F. Hill .. .. 50 to 1 against.
C. Jones .. .. 100 to 1 against.
GAMBLING
The Battle
of the Bookies
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
/"\ff-course bookmakers in Western
Australia have been fighting a rear-
guard action against the State Govern-
ment’s Totalisator Agency Board since
it came into operation two months ago,
but last week they turned to do battle.
The bookies, who are threatened with
virtual extinction in the big centres if
the Government carries out its policy
of gradually extending the totalisator
operations throughout the settled areas
of the State, rallied to the defence of
the only customers they can really rely
on these days—their credit clients.
T.A.B. chairman Jack Maher, who
jumped from a £2500-a-year job in the
State Treasury to administer off-course
totalisator betting for £3BOO a year,
cracked down on the bookies with a
demand that they surrender to the Board
lists of noms de plume, and the names
and addresses of their credit patrons.
The Licensed Premises’ Bookmakers’
Association, which used to rule the
racing roost until the Government
decided to reduce legalised betting shops
in favor of the tote system, promptly
advised its members not to comply with
the instruction until after a test case had
been heard. With an unaccustomed air
of sanctity the association declared that
the move was not legal and that it under-
mined the confidential transaction be-
tween bookmaker and client which “has
always been a matter of honor in the
betting world.” Association secretary
R. Z. J. Humphreys declared that off-
course bookmakers could be open to
action from their clients if they divulged
such information.
One metropolitan bookmaker
promptly relinquished his licence and
other bookies told the sad news to their
nom de plume customers over the tele-
phone. Most customers apparently
decided that an ounce of credit was
worth a pound of the tote and elected
to carry on with the off-course operators.
T.A.B. chairman Maher replied to this
defiance with a mild comment that the
new ruling was being examined by the
Board's legal advisers and that the
reasons for the Board's rulings would
soon be made known. The matter is
likely to rest in this cease-fire state until
mid-July, when quarterly returns from
bookmakers are due to be delivered to
the T.A.B.
The Board’s ruling came at a time
when rumblings against the newly formed
totalisator agency system were growing.
Punters were alleging that the Board was
paying poor prices on eastern - States
races, which constitute the bulk of
betting in W.A.
Whether the Board took its action
because it was losing custom in areas
where it has set up shops to off-course
operators who could take phone bets
from anywhere will probably not be
known until the returns come in in July.


GROUP
CHARACTERISTICS
MESSAGE
944,516 Children —
10-14 years.
Direct spending unimportant,
but soon to move into the
Youth Group with tremendous
discretionary spending poten-
tial. Spending here will be
controlled by attitudes devel-
oped now. Also considerable
influence in many fields of
family expenditure.
Become a Junior Ambassador
for Australian-made goods—
influence parents to buy with
pride. Help make Australia
great —it’s your duty as a
young Australian.
726,015 Youths —
15-19 years. Male
and Female.
Powerful marketing group
spending some £350 million
p.a., with strong influence on
many family purchases.
You get most for your money
when you buy Australian
goods . . . most of everything
in design, technical advances,
quality and fashion. And you
help build a stronger economy
for your own future success
and happiness at the same time.
679,451 Males —
20-29 years.
629,909 Females —
20-29 years.
The age of acquisition, making
up a tremendous market for
all goods connected with estab-
lishment of homes and starting
a family. Group in general is
marked by rising consciousness
of “value for money.” New
responsibilities give growing
importance to job security.
Now is the time to secure the
future for yourself and your
growing youngsters. Buy Aus-
tralian-made goods and your
money comes back to you.
You get quality, quantity and
the best design when you buy
Australian.
1,429,481 Males—
30-49 years.
1,351,401 Females—
30-49 years.
The age of consolidation.
During this period homes (and
frequently cars) are paid off,
making funds available for
other items, many in the luxury
and semi-luxury class. Families
are growing up and a future
for their children becomes a
problem of vital importance.
When you buy Australian-
made goods you do yourself a
favour — helping to pave the
way to a bigger and brighter
future. Remember, nothing
can match Australian goods
for quality, creative design, the
latest fashion trends and
honest-to-goodness value.
1,057,491 Males—
50 years and over.
1,166,045 Females —•
50 years and over.
The age of retention. Family
responsibilities are disappear-
ing, retirement drawing closer,
and building up for period of
retirement becomes major con-
sideration. In the majority of
cases, value for money becomes
of paramount importance.
Protect your investments i n
Australia by buying Australian-
made goods. You’ll beneti
your family and future genera-
tions in the most practical way
You’ll help make Austral!
great —for yourself . - •
them.
INDUSTRY
The “Buy Australian”
Campaign
FROM A CORRESPONDENT
Operation Boomerang is now under
way: the Associated Chambers of
Manufactures have launched their all-
media public relations campaign to per-
suade Australians to “Buy Australian”
—the biggest advertising and public rela-
tions campaign of its kind ever under-
taken in Australia.
“Everyone is a shareholder in that
nation,” one of their representatives told
The Bulletin last week, “and the more
we put into it the more dividends there
are for everyone.” Hence the choice of
the boomerang symbol for the campaign:
“Buy Australian and your money
comes back to you.” (At first they thought
that the boomerang, like the kangaroo,
the emu, or some variation on the coat
of arms, had had its day as a symbol,
but with this financial twist they finally
decided it would work.)
One of the first shots in the campaign
is a booklet entitled “Public Relations
and the Australian Manufacturer.” Ear-
marked “Reading Time: 8 Minutes,”
and opening with the sentence “This
booklet comes to you at a time of crisis
for Australian industry,” it reminds
manufacturers that secondary industry
employs over one million people, pro-
duces goods annually worth £4300
million and pays out £lO5B million in
wages. There are great export markets
ready for development by companies
with courage and initiative, but although
Australian goods are “equal to and often
surpass those produced by any other
country” most of the Chambers’ mem-
bers know “that quality and value alone
do not always guarantee maximum
sales.”
The essential point is: “Markets
are dependent on the attitude of mind
developed by customers.” To produce the
right attitude the campaign plans to im-
press on the public “the high inherent
quality, good aesthetic design, and splen-
did variety of Australian manufactured
products,” the excellence of Australian
working conditions and the important
part industry plays in maintaining full
employment and conserving overseas
funds. Now “for the first time” the book-
let says, “Australian industry will speak
with one voice, bringing the truth to
every member of the Australian com-
munity old enough to understand it.
Even as you read, newspapers, TV and
radio stations, magazines, poster hoard-
ings, are carrying your message to every
corner of the country. Wisdom will pre-
vail wherever the facts are known. We
will make them known dramatically,
forcefully and sincerely. This is the
objective—the culmination of years of
planning by your Executive, past and
present.”
The Plan of Attack has been carefully
worked out. The community has been
divided up into different groups, each
with its special characteristics, and a dif-
ferent message worked out for each
group. (“Arguments that impress the
housewife or family man,” for example,
“are not necessarily those that are most
effective with the teenager.”) The best
methods of putting over the message by
advertising and public relations have also
been classified—the right sort of news-
paper, the right TV or radio slots, the
right clubs to approach. For example,
inserts in pay envelopes are suggested
for industrial and commercial workers,
contacts with the Y.W.C.A. for teenage
girls.
New Australians are one of the main
targets. They number 875,567, are “im-
pressionable” and “style conscious, with
a natural bias towards the homeland and
European products they know.” The
suggested message for them is Security
and Quality: Buy Australian to ensure
your future in a new country and to get
products of good design. They will re-
ceive the message in foreign-language
journals, of course, but also at lectures
by the Immigration Department.
The box below shows their break-up
of the community, their characterisa-
tion of each group and their idea of the
appropriate message for it.
The campaign, or war, will of course
cost money and manufacturers are
reminded that “you will be approached
for a contribution to the sinews of war.”


LITERATURE
The Mystery of
Catherine Martin
FROM MAX HARRIS IN ADELAIDE
No picture
As a result of literary research into
her writings at Sydney University,
the call has gone out who was
Catherine Martin? She was one of the
two novelists of national stature that
South Australia has produced (the other
'being William Gosse Hay). She died in
Adelaide in 1937. But that is about all
we know.
It seems impossible that a distin-
guished poet, novelist, and letter-writer
should die in the late 1930 s and yet
not a letter, sheet of manuscript, diary,
or document survive. Did Catherine
Martin with her modesty and instinct
for anonymity manage to cover her
tracks completely? Amateur literary
sleuths all over South Australia are
working like beavers in pursuit of any
kind of find, rich or small. The trail
leads all over the place. Catherine
Martin lived at Mount Gambier, Nara-
coorte, Adelaide, and travelled exten-
sively overseas. She lived to the ripe
age of 90, and appears to have been
an inveterate letter-writer.
But the South Australia Archives can-
not trace a word of source material.
The Mitchell Library hasn’t a line. In
the whole body of literary reminiscences
and newspaper articles, only one per-
sonal sentence appears to have been
written about the novelist who was con-
sidered in the 1890 s to be the greatest
woman writer Australia has produced,
and the most “advanced” intellect. This
sentence is buried in the memoirs of the
great political reformer Catherine Helen
Spence: “1 met Miss Catherine Mackay
((now Mrs Fred Martin) from Mount
Gambier. I at first thought her the
daughter of a wealthy squatter of the
south-east, but when I found she was a
litterateur trying to make a living by her
pen, I drew to her at once . . . She has
jpublished two novels, ‘An Australian
Girl’ and ‘The Silent Sea’ which so
good a judge as F. W. H. Myers pro-
nounced to be on the highest level ever
cached in Australian fiction, and in that
opinion I heartily concur.”
With this passing reference our know-
ledge of other than a hearsay kind
'comes to an end. Where was the Mackay
I Property in the south-east, from which
published at the age of 27 the first
Australian “explorer” poem? How
‘lid she come by “her sympathetic
J Ppreciation of the aborigines” which
Hakes “The Incredible Journey” “among
best books of its kind in Australian
Merature” (Serle)? Was she a rich
St luattocratic traveller or the struggling
education Department clerk that
Catherine Helen Spence describes?
Only the shadowy figure of her
husband emerges from the mystery: he
was Frederick Martin, brother of the
Henry Martin who founded the famous
Stoneyfell wines, but beyond that there
is nothing.
Why do scholars now consider it
urgent to wrench at the veil of deter-
mined anonymity that Catherine Martin
wore? (She published under the names
M.C.; Mrs Alick MacLeod ; and Isbel.)
Firstly, she was a truly indigenous
Australian colonial writer, but she
depicted the life of intellect, refinement,
and social idealism with immense intel-
ligence and honesty, long before Henry
Handel Richardson and Martin Boyd
turned to the non - bush theme. She
writes better on the mallee, bush life, and
aborigines than any other 19th-century
novelist, while at the same time she is
alone in depicting the Australian mind
at work on the problems of contem-
porary philosophy, religion, and
Socialism. She was a civilised and fiercely
critical Christian ; she was of squat-
tocratic connections but Socialist convic-
tions. No one represented better the
“advanced” Australian than Catherine
Martin.
For instance, “The Old Roof Tree,”
a rare and little-known book of “Letters
from London,” is one of the few, per-
haps the only book of observations of
European life, manners and social con-
ditions as seen at the turn of the century
from the Australian point of view. Her
shock of horror at the poverty, misery,
and ruthless anti-egalitarianism of
Britain is allied to a devastatingly witty
“inside” picture of the blind decadence
of the English clergy. Only a true
“bush girl” could have written it.
Yet these letters, before being pub-
lishable by Longmans in 1906, required
changes, takings away, suppressions.
Do the deadly originals still exist?
“You dig the Bible?"


POLITICAL SECTS
Winning; the
P.U.L.P. Vote
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
JOHN van de LOO
Unofficial lawyer
Victoria’s third Labor party the
Progressive United Labor Party—
was formed last week and intends to
contest several seats at the State elections
on July 15. Leader of the P.U.L.P. is a
tall, dark, well-built Dutch migrant,
Anthony John Christian van de Loo, 32,
who has had a varied career since coming
here from Someren in south Holland 11
years ago. He spent his first few years
as a farm laborer and later as a farm
manager, in central Victoria, mixing
widely in order to master English. Today
he speaks it with extraordinary fluency
and a power of expression which many
native-born Australians would envy.
At the time of the A.L.P. split, Mr
van de Loo was secretary of the party’s
branch at Shepparton in the heart of
Victoria’s rich stone-fruit territory. The
Shepparton branch divided almost evenly
and Mr van de Loo claims that it was
only his efforts which saved it for the
pro-Evatt forces.
Later he moved to Bendigo where he
acquired a passion for Australian Rules
football. In Holland he had played
soccer and was a qualified referee of the
Royal Dutch Soccer Association. In
Bendigo, Alan McDonald (later to coach
the Richmond V.F.L. side for four
seasons) introduced him to the Australian
code. Soon van de Loo was playing with
the Bendigo Seconds and when he came
to the Melbourne outer suburb of Glen-
roy he played back pocket for the local
team. In 1957 he was president of the
Glenroy club. “Australian Rules is a
much better game than soccer,” he says,
“but migrant parents warn their kids off
it because they think it is too rough.
They are all wrong.”
He is now settled in Glenroy where
he lives with his Irish-born wife. It was
a shipboard romance during his return
from a visit to Holland in 1952. They
have three boys aged six, four and three,
and a thriving TV and electrical business
—“John’s TV.” (It is as “John” that he
is now so widely known in the area.)
Soon he ran for a seat on the Broad-
meadows Council as an A.L.P. candidate,
but later resigned from the party. He
claimed that only “old mates” of the
Executive received any support or en-
couragement in the Victorian A.L.P.
Young people, in particular, got nowhere.
His first attempt to win a council seat
won him 740 votes, but next time he
polled 2100. At his third attempt he
stood against the Mayor, Cr Sidney
Sewell, polled 3449 votes and upset the
election with a challenge in the Supreme
Court.
His writ stated that his name had
appeared on the ballot paper as “A. J. C.
Loo” and as a result many ratepayers
thought he was Chinese, causing him to
lose votes. Cr Sewell conceded that the
conduct of the election had been irregu-
lar, but denied he was to blame. The
court upheld van de Loo’s appeal and in
the repeat election he cut the Mayor’s
majority to 349 in a poll of over 7000. A
year later he went within 48 votes of
winning a council seat.
His energy and popularity have led
him into more than a dozen local
organisations from the Red Cross (of
which he is president) to the Retail
Traders Association, and the Youth Club.
As well as popularity, his hyperactive
personality has aroused enmity. Two
years ago stones were thrown through
windows at his home and business, tele-
phone hoaxers plagued him, and
threatening anonymous letters turned up.
He thinks the attacks were politically
inspired but is not prepared to pinpoint
the source.
He is also canny about the new
political party at this stage. He claims
to have “strong local following” with
between 600 and 700 prepared to join
P.U.L.P. Beyond announcing that it will
contest the Broadmeadows, Essendon and
Moonee Ponds seats, and possibly Mel-
bourne and Coburg, he is not keen to
divulge too many details of the party’,
organisation at this stage. J
The reason is that he fears pressure
on the party over its preferences. I n a
statement last week he said that the
A.L.P. had become too closely associated
with Communists, and the D.L.P. with
the Roman Catholic Church. “We stand
between the two Labor parties, but wel-
come the support of anyone who is
definitely anti-Communist.” He explained'
“Our policy is mild Socialism, by which
we mean government control rather than
ownership. Out here many people come
to me for advice. I am their unofficial
lawyer and many of them are in trouble
because of government failure to control
land and hire-purchase companies.”
He claimed that New Australians had
bought land from companies which had
no title to the blocks they were selling.
Others, with overtime or actual jobs
vanishing, found themselves in difficulties
over h.-p. payments.
He believes that youth is inadequately
represented in parliaments and councils
and that as a result politicians of all
parties are out of touch with the
citizenry. He favors closer government
control of basic industries, but not State
ownership.
But who will get the P.U.L.P.
preferences? At this stage, Mr van de
Loo was only definite on one point-
the Communists will go last.
When John lodged his nomination on
June 2, another dispute broke out. He
nominated as “Loo, van de, John,” the
name under which he appears on the
electoral roll, but the Electoral Officer,
Mr Cahill, says he must go on the ballot-
paper as “van de Loo, John.” To add
to the confusion, the P.M.G. has listed
him in the phone book as “Loo, John Van
De.” Mr Cahill said he would take legal
advice.
JAILS
No More Bars
FROM AN ADELAIDE CORRESPONDENT
HThe contemporary vogue in wrought
A iron has now spread to jail-houses.
It is soon to adorn the cell windows of
60 of Her Majesty’s most select guests in
S.A. Recently the State’s Sheriff and
Comptroller of Prisons, Mr L. H. Allen,
announced that its new maximum security
block at the Cadell Training Centre
would have wrought iron instead of plain
iron bars on its windows, running water
and wash basins in each cell, beds and
built-in tables for study and radio sets
built into the walls.
The Cadell Centre was first opened in
January, 1960, to take care of some 60
prisoners whose conduct had qualified
them for an “honor” system and their
outlook for some treatment better than
mere punishment for past offences. The
S.A. Government, in fact, had come to
believe that many wrongdoers could be
rehabilitated and encouraged to take their
place in normal society at the end of their
terms. Hence the decision to open what
is elsewhere called a prison farm, with-
out padlocks or bars, and no grim-faced
warders to police every action.
In fact, at Cadell prisoners are not
known as such at all. They are simply
called trainees —and the training is a con-
structive one. The site was happily
chosen, for Cadell-—lOO miles north-east
of Adelaide —is on a picturesque bend ol
the Murray River, where the scenery is
good, but the water resources even better.
Cadell, incidentally, was founded in the
depression of the 1890 s as a co-operative
(sometimes called “communistic”) settle-
ment to help the workless from Adelaide
to support themselves by agriculture, n
failed.
In a different context, this is what these
modern forced settlers may soon do. M
Allen believes that within 10 years the
Training Centre may turn off sonl
£30,000 worth of produce annually a* l


hence take a great load off the budget
for prison upkeep.. After four months of
pioneering late in 1959. the Prisons
Department was able to report that 1100
acres of sandhills and mailee near the
river had been turned to potential farm-
lands, while a barless building was begun
for the first 60 honor graduates from
yatala orison in Adelaide.
Soon* after, 40 acres were put under
spray irrigation and the trainees applied
themselves to the soil. Today, they are
growing vegetables, barley, dairy produce
and citrus fruits. Before long there will
be 100 acres of irrigated pastures for
cattle and sheep, and those tending them
may even keep rather better hours than
most cockies along the Murray reaches.
When the new block is completed in
July this year, accommodation will be
available for 120 inmates who are to
be encouraged to study agriculture and
various technical subjects through the
Adelaide Correspondence School
, ,
Perhaps the most enlightened move of
aU 13 the decision to select senior officers
on the basis of s P ecial qualities, to en-
cou[a § e a psychological approach to the
problems of those in their care and also
foster S ood relations between them and
their families and friends, who will be
askec lo visit Ca dell as much as possible,
If the place is as good as it appears, the
only problem may be to keep down the
number of applicants.
EDUCATION
The Parents’
Bus Strike
E. E. REECE
More trouble
From F. G. N. EWENCE IN LAUNCESTON
When the Mawbanna school bus
rattled up to Forest Area School
on Thursday, June 1, once again over-
loaded with fresh-faced dairy-country
children, no one seriously believed that
Tasmanian paients strikes over unsa e
school buses had ieally ended.
As the childien trooped into class after
their unofficially extended term ho i ays,
the parents were reading that tney were
liable to prosecution for having e P
them home until they were satisfied about
the roadworthiness of the bus.
_
Mawbanna is a closer-sett ernent a
in Tasmama s extreme nortn-west corner.
Three days before school resumed, t e
parents association president, soldier-
settler Leonard John Nielsen, wire
ilinister tor Education William r U J"
Neilson that the bus was unsafe It ha
frequently run late because of break-
downs. We put our kids on it in t e
morning and we are not sure whether
we will see them again at night,” he said.
T . .. . . 0 ~A
Leaving Mawbanna at 8 a.m. with /0
children and picking up on the vile road
towards Wiltshire, it is carrying 82 when
it reaches Forest Area School, 20 miles
away. It is, as settler Nielsen said, a
very long day for little ones even when
the bus returns punctually at 5 p.m.
Minister Neilson retorted that the con-
tractor's bus was in very good condition
—but a further inspection would be
made immediately. But on Tuesday only
six children travelled, and it was an hour
late According to settler Nielsen, several
replenishments of water had been needed.
But Minister Neilson said that a
further inspection by a Transport Com-
mission expert and a private garageman
had confirmed that the bus was in good
order. “Back to school,” he warned
parents. Next morning the children of
all but two of the 30-odd families re-
mained at home.
That afternoon, Forest Area School
Headmaster H. D. C. Fault and a teacher
visited all parents to assure them that
the bus was in perfect order. Simul-
taneously, Minister Neilson in Hobart
threatened prosecution. The parents
agreed to let their children return—but
the rumblings continue both round Maw-
banna and other s of the State
Most Tasmanian country children
travel by bus to area schools, but many
farmers dislike the system because it
“draws the boys away from the land”
( an d p OSS j b jy f rorn the milking shed
where they could spend another hour
if there were a local school). Many buses
are bad f ew are disgraceful hessian-
covered trucks. Yet their safety record
j s outstanding,
Only last week L. J. Whatley retired
after travelling 150.000 miles on his
. x . \ ~~ ...
sch f ° ol run to . oatlands “yea” w.th-
out even a minor accident The bus men
are mostl y oldlsh > responsible and skilful,
ev en if their antique vehicles do not
measure up. Yet few direct their con-
demnation to what seems the worst
feature of the bus system—the discom-
forts suffered by the children. Even
settler Nielsen was ready to say that “the
bus can carry 70 children without dis-
comfort, because the older children nurse
the smaller ones.”
what wjth the brea kdowns and the
long rough trips _ many Tasmanians
think that the crowding of 82 little damp
bodies in winter, or 82 hot ones in
summer, is the most serious ground for
criticism. Minister Neilson and Premier
Reece can expect further trouble.
EXPLORATION
Beneath
the Antarctic
'T'he catastrophic possibilities are clear
enough: if the Antarctic ice-cap ever
melted, not only would two or three great
contrasting islands show up from under-
neath it but also the resulting rise of
about 210 ft in all sea-levels would drown
most of the coastal cities of the world
and condemn much of the surviving
population to seafaring on a fish diet.
Australian territory in Antarctica, how-
ever, would be almost unaffected. Like
the French and Norwegian sectors, it has
a solid land basis and would remain
almost as large as it is now. But very
substantial parts of the British and
American sectors would melt away.
Yet despite the stepped-up pace of
Antarctic exploration and investigation
in recent years, the precise questions
whether the Antarctic ice sheet is actually
advancing or retreating, whether the ice
sheet will ever ultimately disappear and
just how quickly changes can occur are
all still unanswered.
Probably the most immediately import-
ant of all these points, as established by
Birmingham University geologist Ray-
mond Adie in the latest issue of “New
Scientist” magazine, is the affirmation of
the separateness of the land masses under
the ice-cap. Although recent Russian
geophysical teams have theorised, from
intensive seismic and magnetic surveys,
that the sub-ice surface of the Antarctic
continent would have contours corres-
ponding to the existing ice surface, a
team of American physicists recently
established that the coastal mountains of
Marie Byrd Land (which lies across the
Southern Pacific) are really the tops of
islands offshore from the main Antarctic
land mass. “This is perhaps one of the
most startling geographical discoveries
of this century,” Dr Adie says.
Conjecture has it that the channel
separating Marie Byrd Land from the
mainland mass is some 300 miles wide
and some 1400 fathoms deep at its
deepest. Besides this channel, linking
the Bellinghausen and Ross Seas, it is
also thought that there may be a minor
offshoot channel to the Weddell Sea.
“It is now known from detailed sur-
veys,” Dr Adie says, “that the continent
comprises two totally distinct and con-
trasting geological provinces, which have
evolved separately under different
environmental conditions since early
Palaeozoic times.”
Of these two provinces, Dr Adie points
out that West Antarctica (including
Graham Land and Marie Byrd Land) is
a southern extension of the Andes moun-
tain chain of South America and has had
a geological history of much turbulence.
East Antarctica, the older and larger
geological province, has remained rela-
tively undisturbed from remotest anti-
quity, as with most sediments of the so-
called Gondwana System (Gondwana-
land was a continent which, according to
conjecture, once existed in the Indian
Ocean region as a link between the great
plateau countries of Africa, India and
Australia).


The New Men
of the Unions
By MUGGA
COLIN SHEARER
No party
The 1960’s may be the decade of the
new men in Australian unions—the
union leaders without an interest in poli-
tics. Such a one is 40-year-old Mr Colin
Shearer, whose smiling round face
emerged last month as a victor over the
Communists in the Amalgamated
Engineering Union elections. He now
has the Communist party worrying that
it may lose its complete control over the
A.E.U.
“I'm not really interested in politics,”
he told The Bulletin this week. “In
elections I have worked for an Inde-
pendent, the D.L.P. and the A.L.P. No.
1 have never belonged to the D.L.P., and
why should 1 join the A.L.P.? Officially
they did nothing to help me in this cam-
paign some of their members fought
pretty hard for Mr Wilson during the
campaign. I am politically neutral, and
in the future I prefer to concentrate on
getting better conditions for the blokes
in the union. I think the men recognised
this, and if they had preferred a Com-
munist they would have voted for Mr
Wilson. And had they wanted an
A.L.P. man Mr Burke would have got
the job. I didn’t resign from the A.L.P.
during the split, but like a lot of other
good Labor men I just let my member-
ship lapse.”
Whilst it is obvious that the Communist
party worked for Mr Wilson, the A.L.P.
worked for no one, Mr Santamaria’s
National Civic Council must have worked
for Mr Shearer. But it is also apparent
that the N.C.C. has changed its tactics
from those it had used previously. First,
it no longer puts up “dummies” for
office. No one, not even the Communist
party, could seriously call Mr Shearer a
“stooge for Mr Santamaria and the
D.L.P.”—his industrial record and his
comments prove that. Secondly, the
N.C.C. are not demanding of its candi-
dates that they must be D.L.P., or even
supporters. Otherwise, why their sup-
port for Shearer? In future elections
the only criteria they demand before sup-
porting a candidate (with or without his
permission) is that he be a good unionist,
anti-Communist, and that he has a chance
of winning. And who would lose by
that ?
Colin Shearer is a fitter and turner who
has been a member of the A.E.U. since
1946 —the year he was demobilised from
the R.A.A.F. A practising Catholic, he
j s married with three children, lives at
Wallsend, seven miles from Newcastle,
an( i to fit himself for his present position
he attended an Industrial Law course
which necessitated his travelling 100
miles to Sydney each Friday night for a
year.
He has held many minor positions in
his union—positions wh ch are often
“Pssf, senor —NEVER stand against a Wall!"
boring, relatively unimportant—calling
more for the virtues of perseverance and
tenacity than an ability to sway fierv
union meetings. His most important union
position is undoubtedly that of shop-
steward at Lysaght’s. There he spends as
much time in helping to settle all sorts
of job disputes as he does in doing the
work of a fitter and turner. During the
campaign he conducted for the position
of Councillor, Lysaght's put off 500 of
their 2100 men, involving him in many
arguments regarding the “first on, last
off” principle which unionists regard as
the most important when any dismissals
occur. Mr Shearer told me that the main
reason he stood for office was his concern
for the declining margin of skill of the
fitter and turner. The other reasons he
gave for standing were the disgust he
had with the way unions were being
used as a tool for political parties.
“If you mean by ‘a Grouper' anyone
who opposes the Comms —1 suppose you
could call me one. But this description
would fit a lot of people—wouldn't it?”
Although the campaign for Councillor
was not a fiery one it was certainly
strenuous. Both the Communist party
and Mr Shearer's supporters wrote out
22,500 how-to-vote tickets, addressed the
same number of envelopes and posted
them to members. (According to the laws
governing court-directed ballots the only
propaganda permissible must be hand-
written.) To obtain the names and
addresses a candidate or someone
authorised by him goes along to the
court officers directing the ballot and
either spends days copying out the names
and addresses or photostats them. V the
cost of photostatting, postage, paper and
time is taken into consideration, it is
evident that a lot of money was spent by
the groups supporting each candidate.
This was the hardest battle fought be-
tween the Communist party and the anti-
Communists for years —and perhaps the
real lesson to be learnt is that it was won
by the anti-Communists because of the
type of candidate they backed. Whether
this was a fluke or not will be proved
later this year when the remaining A.E.U
Council posit on will be contested.
On Sale
The days on which The Bulletin
will be on sale throughout Aus-
tralia have been rearranged. In future
they will be as follows:
Sydney: Thursday
N.S.W. Country: Thursday and
Friday
Melbourne: Thursday
Victorian Country: Friday
Brisbane: Friday
Queensland Country: Later
Adelaide: Friday
South Australia Country: Later
Tasmania: Friday


PLAIN ENGLISH
Taking an interest in Our Future
ON the latest figures it looks as if Aus-
tralia’s export-import dealings for
the year 1960-61 will balance out at
minus £450 million. Much of this loss
has been dissolved by Government bor-
rowings and by continuing investment in
Australia. But the immensity of the
figure shows how necessary it was for
the Government to sound the alarm last
November. Whatever he may think of
the type of Government action taken, no
patriotic businessman can now deny that
some immediate action was urgently
needed ; the other type of businessman
might very well remain silent.
This week’s figures show that the
import drain is now drying up. We are
getting down to the kind of import figure
we can afford. On the export side we
now need some new thinking. Part of
the rise in export income in May was due
to the wheat and barley deal with Com-
munist China ; we can hardly afford to
go on balancing payments by courtesy
of this country, and if we attempt to do
so we will find that China will take
advantage of it. The case of lapan pro-
vides ample warning for those who think
it is uniquely “realistic” to solve our
problems by building up trade with
China.
What else? There are plans, but most
of them are fairly long term. Tax incen-
tives for exporters begin on luly 1 ; plans
for bigger sales-promotion campaigns
and for increased tourist trade are still
in the hands of the backroom boys ; the
Government now really looks as if it is
going to engage in the kind of long-range
projects in undeveloped areas that will
finally boost exports, but it’s all in the
sky for the moment; it is agreed that
special arrangements should be made for
rural finance, but the arrangements made
so far are not long term enough to
encourage full use of them.
What is being planned now is more
than has ever been planned before. But
one thing seems to be missing. What
happens when all the November measures
are relaxed? What guarantees will there
be that we don’t go back to the kind of
unbalanced economy we had galloped
into last year? What measures can be
taken permanently to alter the nature of
the economy by permanently diverting
resources into the productive export
industries?
One thing is certain. As a result of
the November measures Australians are
beginning to take some kind of an interest
in their own economic future. Plans for
that future may help to win votes at the
next election.
How Not to Run a Pre-selection
The ditching of Professor Bland (by
one vote) from his blue - ribbon
Liberal seat in Sydney and his replace-
ment as pre-selected candidate for the
next Federal elections by an honorary
Party functionary nobody has heard of
has been a shock to those who wish the
Liberal party well. There are two reasons
for concern.
The first is personal. It may or may
not be that Professor Bland is too old to
have a seat in Parliament. That is some-
thing for those who know him best to
judge. But if his party branch thought
he was too old it should have told him
So ' His parliamentary career has been
wore distinguished that that of many
seat-warmers half his age ; it earned him
the right to an honorable retirement.
But what is important is the second:
>f Professor Bland had been informed
jhat he should retire, there would have
been a more open contest for pre-selec-
tlQn and this would have attracted a wide
ra nge of promising candidates. Many
Possible candidates would hesitate to
oppose an eminent sitting member out
of loyalty to the orderly running of their
party But if a member announced his
retirement they would feel free to offer
themselves. And the best candidates —the
kind of men who might quickly adorn a
Ministry—are the very ones who would
be least likely to push out a sitting
member.
Of course, this happened in N.S.W.,
where the Liberal party are such fools
that they haven’t been able to win a
State election for more than 20 years,
despite the very indifferent Government
they have been “opposing.” It is a
wonder that they have been able to
restrain themselves from replacing all the
present N.S.W Liberal members in the
Federal Parliament with local candidates
no one has heard of.
And it would be a great deal too much
to ask of them that they should display
sufficient political aplomb to hold the
pre-selection for Professor Bland’s seat
all over again. For all we know the
gentleman who replaced Professor Bland
might prove to be the political genius of
the age. To throw the pre-selection open
again would give him the opportunity to
prove it against opposition.
Nothing at
the Summit
'T'he Kennedy-Khrushchev meeting came
and went almost completely un-
associated with the trumpeting of hopes
and fears that made the Eisenhower-
Khrushchev attempts at summit diplo-
macy so potentially disastrous. No one
expected anything and that's what they
got. Both sides showed a willingness to
talk, which is believed to be of propa-
ganda importance. Both men had a look
at each other, which might conceivably
be of some use to them if either of them
ever really has anything to say
There is no objection to heads of
governments talking to each other in
itself. What becomes objectionable is
that a huge moral pressure should emerge
in their countries that they should
“achieve” something. And what is
objectionable about this is that it is so
one-sided. Khrushchev comes from a
completely manipulated country in which
moral pressures of this size do not express
themselves; he bargains according to
self-interest. But democratic statesmen
may be tempted to warn to please their
people by some spivvy deal to get votes.
Even this would not matter if there was
the remotest possibility of gaining a con-
cession from the Communists. But as
things stand now there is no chance of
this. The Russians think they are going
to win and they give nothing away. All
that would be achieved would be some
spurious “relieving of tension,” which
would mean that the Russians would
smile at us for a month or so because
on some vital question of self-interest we
had given in.
President Kennedy looks as if he can
handle this living-with-tension situation
with considerable aplomb. He projects
an honest democratic image ; he seems
to be able to play card for card with
Khrushchev; the game goes on coolly
and meaninglessly, and we survive. But
for how long? Considerable sections of
the elites of the West are demoralised ;
they have ceased to believe in themselves,
or they believe that a “realistic” conces-
sionary policy would cleverly aid their
interests by some kind of legerdemain.
In sheer terms of power we have nothing
to worry about. It is in our understand-
ing of issues, our belief in ourselves, our
will-to-win, that we may yet some day
collapse.
By OBSERVER


Protestant
Australia Today
The sources of revival
An Anglican Procession of Witness
By BRUCE MANSFIELD and DESMOND HOPE
PROTESTANTISM was the Establishment in late 19th-
century Australia. It gave much of its flavor to the
common life, especially in the towns and cities where
most Australians lived. Despite the divisions of the
churches, Protestants, as a Frenchman put it. “understand
one another. If they dispute a lot, it is because they have a
foundation and certain reflexes in common.” In Australia
they built what appeared to be a very solid construction. In
this century, however, changes in Australian life weakened
the structure, and only recently has Protestantism begun to
readjust.
In the 19th century it had a firm, if narrow, intellectual
basis in Evangelicism. The convictions of the laity were
formed by strictly Biblical preaching and by an intense
personal study of the Bible. Ministers commonly delivered
45-minute sermons, confidently relying on their congrega-
tion’s interest in and familiarity with the Bible. The British
and Foreign Bible Society did a thriving business with their
tracts, and parents not only insisted that their children
attend Sunday school but checked on what they learnt there.
Even if English-speaking Protestants in the 19th century
were —as Mathew Arnold complained —men of one book,
they certainly knew that book.
Protestantism also had a developed social life in the
congregation with its round of meetings. Seven days a
week were barely enough to accommodate Sunday service,
mid-week prayer meetings, choir and hymn practice,
revivalist preaching, discussion groups, Sunday school
teaching. There was also an established pattern of devo-
tional life: this was one age in the history of the Church
when men looked for the direct outpouring of the spirit
whenever two or three gathered together, for example, in
the prayer meeting. It was an age of preaching and hymn-
singing whose high-point was the revival meeting, when
men were brought to a crisis, their longings satisfied, their
confusions resolved.
Finally the Protestant Churches in the late 19th century
had a well-recognised form of political and social action—-
the temperance movement. Steele Rudd in “Dad in
Politics” gives an account of a hilarious encounter between
Dad and a Band of Hope leader; Lawson also described
temperance campaigners. The temperance movement pub-
lished a weekly paper whose letterhead boasted a long list of
distinguished supporters and vice-regal patronage. The
Temperance Union published an impressive number of anti-
drink tracts. Children of seven and eight took pledges not
to touch liquor for life; processions of such groups as the
Band of Hope proclaimed the evils of drink and the
blessings of reform. Those who did sign the pledge or
reform counted it a very big event of their lives and were
prepared to support the Temperance Union financially.
It is hard now, when the temperance cause appears
fantastic to the community at large and is peripheral even
in the life of the churches themselves, to picture what a
power it was electorally at that time; the Women’s Christian
Temperance Union, for example, was one of the most active
pressure groups in the fight for women’s votes. To others
the temperance movement represented an attack on poverty
and injustice generally.
The Collapse
|>UT towards the end of the 19th century the old Protestant
certainties began to come under violent attack, and
controversies about the authority of the Bible began to
corrode them. In the first generation or so of this century
liberal theologians attempted to come to terms with
the morecritical spirits, but the intellectual life of the Church
at large was so weakened that the laity fell into a general
insipidity in matters of doctrine. There has been such an
alarming decline in the theological literacy of churchgoers
that preachers in recent decades have felt themselves
impotent in face of widespread ignorance and misconcep-
tion. In the old days a preacher could quote a phrase from
the Bible and be sure that his congregation would identify
and complete it. Now the clergy talks constantly of the
problem of “communication.”
One of the consequences was the increasing loneliness
of the minister, especially in the enormous country parishes.
It may be true that a good deal of theological training in
Australia was inadequate from the beginning. It may also
be true that, even in the best centres, it is not as solid as it
used to be. Nevertheless, a great intellectual gap still
remains between the minister and the bulk of his
parishioners: compare a young minister’s well-stocked
library with the modest or bizarre collections of religious
books possessed by even his most active lay lieutenants and
this becomes quickly apparent.
Kenneth Henderson’s remark about clergymen in 1953
no doubt still applies: “There is no money for big books and
little leisure for solid reading.” but a surprising number of
learned or semi-learned journals find their way to ministerial
desks. Quarterlies such as the Anglican “Modern Church-
man” and “The Hibbert Journal.” scholarly monthlies such
as “The Churchman” and the Edinburgh “Expository
Times,” devoted to Biblical scholarship, the weeklies.
“Church Times” (Anglican) and “The British Weekly.” all
have readers among Australian ministers.
It is certainly not easy to embody this reading m
preaching to a congregation which has the Australian
suspicion of the “academic” and preference for the “practi-
cal” and which is theologically illiterate. For the minister
who keeps abreast of the best that is being written m
Protestant journals overseas has to preach to people who.
even if they do read religious publications, do not read
scholarly works. Anglicans may have some books on the
Prayerbook and the liturgy of the Church as well as books
of personal devotion, while other Protestants concentrate
more on anecdotal accounts of foreign missionary work,
stories of revivalists and their campaigns and fundamental
controversies on the Bible. The sermons of Dr C. •
Spurgeon and T. De Witt Talmadge, the religious novels o
lan McLaren and Ralph Connor have given way to
works of Leslie Weatherhead, Norman Vincent Peal e > WarJ
Emerson Fosdick, Ralph Waldo Trine, Dr Paul Whi •
Albert Schweitzer, Gordon Powell, Alan Walker, hiJ
Graham devotional books and Lloyd Douglas novels.


LOOK BACK AT ANGER: Protestantism
From The Bulletin, December 3, 1903
NO PROTESTANTISM IN BUSINESS
SPOKESMAN: “We are all Protestant workmen, sir; mostly ironfounders and such like; and seeing that you were
a cordial supporter of the Protestant Defence Association, and were in the iron trade, we thought you
might get us some work.”
PROTESTANT DEFENCE MAN: “Well, I can't. I import most of my ironwork from the Romish idolators in
Belgium, and when we get the tariff abolished, I'll get still more from them. Besides, I'm arranging a laige
contract with some cheep Papists in Bohemia. You'll have to get stone-breaking to do."


The Paperback Revolution
TN the last few years, however, the Protestant Churches
have started to turn the corner in this matter. The
“paperback revolution” is affecting them, and the sale of
devotional classics such as Thomas a Kempis’s “Imitation
of Christ.” William Law’s “Serious Call,” St Augustine’s
“Confessions,” the mystical “The Cloud of Unknowing”
and the works of such modern Protestant thinkers as Rein-
hold Niebuhr, Karl Barth, Paul Tillich and Emil Brunner
indicates the demand for more solid reading.
The Church’s educational authorities are interested now
in adult education, and the point is often made that
“Christian education” should not be confined to Sunday
school. The adult-education class is making its way in the
congregations. Church papers may remain, as Dr Ken
lnglis has said, “introverted” and. therefore, dull, but they
are being more widely read and have more bite than they
have had for years. In this respect “The Church Standard”
under Stuart Watts and “The Presbyterian” under Frank
Hanlin set new levels, and at the moment the
“Anglican” in Sydney is the pace-maker. The Ecumenical
Press Service from Geneva is not only a useful stand-by
for harassed editors but also breaks down the insularity of
Australian Protestants. All this is only a beginning; it
remains to be seen whether the revived interest of the clergy
in the intellectual traditions of Christianity, and in particu-
lar in the Reformation tradition itself, will pass over to the
churchgoers; but a rallying of forces has begun.
Among other things, radio, films and television have
meant that Protestants no longer look to the Church con-
gregation for social satisfactions. Consequently there was
a danger that the congregations would become merely
worshipping clubs, but in fact the 1950 s saw a great revival
of church life. The credit for this must go to the steward-
ship movement.
The stewardship movement aims to make churchgoers
recognise their responsibilities to God and their Church.
In the years after 1945 the rapidly growing costs of main-
taining such things as the home, inland and foreign missions
and the various Church institutions such as orphanages
could not be met from bequests, a few jumble sales and by
passing round the plate on Sundays. Ministers could not
handle fund-raising by themselves, and a number of
Churches adopted American fund-raising techniques to
meet rising costs. The stewardship movement gave many
businessmen an active part in Church affairs for the first
time: the Protestant Churches now have incomes which
would have amazed those who battled in the late 1930 s and
1940 sto reduce crippling debts on church buildings and
ministers’ homes. The old fete and jumble sale seemed to
be disappearing from church life. Instead of the old
parochial muddling through it is nowadays an accepted task
of annual national assemblies and conferences to survey
their budgets.
Equally important is the new vigor which the steward-
ship movement has brought into Church life; a new vigor
and, perhaps, some distasteful features for the fund-
raiser has his own patter, his own approach. When this is
said, however, the demanding and even heroic character of
the stewardship enterprise must be recognised. Large
numbers of laymen went out with the by no means easy job
of telling the indifferent that they had to raise their sights
and give to the Church on a scale they had never dreamed
of. The result is a renewed sense of sacrifice and a certain
toughness of spirit.
The New Men
r T''HE stewardship movement has brought a new generation
of men into the leadership in the local Churches. Those
who led the campaigns were often young businessmen and
professional men, many of whom had had up till that time
only a loose connection with the Church. The practical
and forthright job appealed to them and, when they had
brought it off, they began to take an interest in the jj>v -
the congregation as a whole. They are gradually
those whose roots are in the religious life of
times or the 19205. rdlail
Many of them have had but the briefest training '
Sunday schools, and that at a time when the intellectual 1?
of the Churches was low. They are strong leaders h t
lacking intellectual background, they also pose a problem
Can the Churches use this new strength to recreate a living
corporate life, to develop the religious or even theological
life of the congregation and to renew its sense of mission?
A danger is that the business and professional men who
have been connected with the Churches’ work in a new wav
may find a lack of sympathy from the older men who had
previously been in control. There may be many more cases
such as that in a Sydney Church where the older elders
find it hard to accept the newest elder, an optometrist
who distinguished himself in the stewardship movement
This sort of thing will be the big problem of the 19605.
The corporate life of the Churches has also been
strengthened in the last ten years by a renewed and more
sophisticated understanding of the ministry's pastoral
responsibilities. There is a general interest in the various
forms of counselling as a means of meeting modern man’s
anxieties. There has been an increase in specialisation,
with chaplains appointed to factories, hospitals and universi-
ties.
There are. however, dangers in this interest in counsel-
ling techniques. Some practitioners seem to use the resources
of Christianity to cure the frivolous anxieties and hypo-
chondrias of the pampered. With them Christianity becomes
a cult of inner security and reassurance, and God, in the
words of a caustic American, a kind of “cosmic bell-hop.”
A Parsons’ Movement?
'T'HE 19th-century pattern of devotional life has also been
1 broken up. The fully-occupied Sunday and round of
weekday devotional meetings have been reduced, in most
cases, to worship once a Sunday. The new laity will not be
whooped-up by the old war-cries about the Sabbath. These
men live in suburbs and own motor cars. They have no
sense of guilt about spending Sunday, once they have been
to service, out in the country or at the beach. It will be
interesting to see how many Protestant Churches change
their time of morning service from 11 a.m. to 9.30 a.m. in
the next few years. They will reflect a fundamental change
in the whole life of the Protestant Churches.
With the passing of the old Evangelicalism there was a
danger that Protestant worship would become undisciplined
Methodist Drive-in Sendee


»nd eccentric. Public spontaneous prayers, for example,
can be repetitive and vapid if they are not nourished by the
kind of fervor which marked the Evangelical Revival. But
intellectual revival has also brought a new interest in
liturgical traditions. As the Anglican Church, with its
incomparable forms of service, has never lost touch with the
main liturgical tradition, it has a strong attraction for those
clemy in other Protestant Churches who long for everything
to be done decently and in order. Among such men, some-
tljing like a liturgical movement has appeared.
This movement aims to revive the Churches’ rich
ancient heritage and link the churchgoer’s life with that
of the Church. It aims at balance and continuity, at empha-
sising Christian occasions such as Lent rather than cooked-
up festivals such as Father’s and Mother’s Day and Educa-
tion Week. However, at this stage it is still largely a parsons’
movement, there is something precious about it. Like other
liturgical movements in the history of the Church, it can
also get lost in arguments about things which, to the lay
mind, do not matter very much. There could be no more
miserable fate for Australian Protestantism than to have
the congregations divided about crosses and chalices and
pictures in Churches.
In Europe the liturgical movement has escaped this
fate. It has actually helped to renew the Churches’ sense
of their social responsibility. In the lona Community, for
example, the symbolism of the sacrament points to the needs
of the common life and the economic problems of the world.
The liturgical movement in Australia will not really be
successful until it does the same thing.
There is, however, one point at which the new liturgical
interest has helped the Protestant Churches to come to
terms with the 20th century. It is gradually breaking down
the old architectural prejudice that if a building is to look
like a church it must be in Gothic-revival style. The con-
temporary movement in church architecture is picking up
speed. At the same time the Blake Prize has made the
Churches face up to modern religious art. without much
effect so far, it is true, but it is helping to eat away the old
prejudices and the old identification of Protestantism with
19th-century cultural forms. The effects can be seen in such
diverse places as the Watson’s Bay Naval chapel with its
cross in the back-wall window w'hich overlooks the Heads,
the Eric Smith window at St Paul’s College chapel, the
Flynn Memorial Church and cairn at Alice Springs.
But, in other respects, the worship of the Churches has
not yet come to terms with the 20th century. For instance,
almost all the hymns the Protestants sing were written in
the 19th century. It is difficult to find hymns which reflect
the present concern about the Christian’s vocation in his
daily work.
Finally, do the Protestant Churches really affect
the wider life of the community as they did in the
late 19th century? Certainly their influence has declined
since the days when the temperance movement was their
political arm, when elections could claim to be won by the
temperance vote (as in N.S.W. in 1904) and politicians made
and unmade by their replies to test-questions on local
option. Protestant opinion no doubt affects political deci-
sion negatively on certain questions—for example, that of
State aid to Church schools. There have also not lacked
attempts to have a more positive influence. During and
after World War II there was a good deal of discussion of
s °cial questions in the Churches; an enormous literature was
Produced; all the Churches had committees on public ques-
ts; the Christian Social Order Movement, directed by
G. Coughlan, although Anglican in inspiration and
kadership, aroused wide interest in the other Churches,
Specially among the young.
})UT the Christian Social Order Movement did not survive,
and the whole discussion has become muted. Many of
® e problems with which the movement concerned itself
* er e solved in one way or another by the Welfare State.
%in, most of those engaged in it stood somewhat left of
centre and experienced the general Leftist disillusionment
of Stalin’s last years.
Inside the Churches there was a mass of conservative
political opinion suspicious of, if not downright hostile
towards, any social criticism. The Evangelicals looked upon
discussion of social questions as a dangerous irrelevance to
the Church’s unique mission of saving souls. The Protestant
Churches were also wisely wary of making the kind of
political commitment which has embarrassed and embroiled
Catholics in N.S.W. and Victoria.
The devotees of organised political action despise
Protestant talk about the vocation and responsibility of the
individual Christian in his work and in society and deny
that an individual’s sense for these things makes any differ-
ence in the real world. Certainly there are still many
illusions among Protestants about the individual conscience
and its power to transform the world. Even so, it would be
wrong to overlook its influence in the multitude of decisions
that are daily taken in our society.
'"THE Churches are not, of course, completely silent on
A public questions. There is a group of well-known clergy-
men that can be relied on to speak up in most circumstances,
although their fellow Protestants sometimes wish that they
were more profound and penetrating than they usually are.
More important are the formal statements of the Australian
Council of Churches —for example, of its Commission on
International Affairs. Overseas Christian social thought
enters Australia through such bodies, and, in fact, the time
lag in this respect between Europe or America and Australia
is probably less now than it has ever been before. On a
very small number of questions, such as relations with
Asia, a vigorous discussion has developed. There is no
area in which 19th-century attitudes have been more quickly
or consciously abandoned than in that of missions, where
the Churches have quickly adjusted themselves to Asian
nationalism. It is the Protestant Churches which are promot-
ing the present discussion of Australia’s restricted immigra-
tion policy.
To all this must be added the reality and earnestness
of the unity movement within the Protestant Churches.
Since 1957 a Joint Commission on Church Union of the
Congregational, Methodist and Presbyterian Churches has
been at work and has already presented a report, “The Faith
of the Church,” which is now undergoing criticism and dis-
cussion in these three Churches. The parties are committed
to these discussions in a way that they could not have been
even ten years ago. There has also been force in overseas
example, for instance, that of the union in South India. The
Australian Council of Churches also expresses the wide-
spread desire for unity, going indeed beyond strictly
Protestant bounds, and through it the overseas unity move-
ments have exerted an influence on the Australian Churches.
Through it also the Churches have been able to deal together
with certain problems of common concern. It is a meeting-
place where the problem of unity can be frankly and directly
studied. At its annual meeting in 1961 a majority statement
declared: “The goal must be manifest unity. ‘Spiritual unity’
as a substitute for organic union is inadequate.”
It would be mistaken to overlook the external pres-
sures promoting Christian unity. Many of the old denomina-
tional shibboleths are obviously anachronisms in the 20th
century. It is the times that make old-style sectarianism
look every day more foolish. But the Churches have not
been too tardy in recognising what the times have demanded
of them. God himself, says the report on the “Faith of the
Church,” has been revealing to them the scandal of their
disunity. “In this holocaust of traditional securities,
customary alignments no longer stand.... Those who really
live in the 20th century have experienced too much....to
be content with denominational panaceas.”
The forces of Australian Protestantism are rallying
today. The question for the 1960 sis whether this new
awareness and understanding can be transferred from a
comparatively small elite of clerics and laymen to the great
mass of the Protestants.


“It’s Great to be
a Lion”
Australia falls into Area 10 and is known as Multiple
District 201.
LIONS J. D. RICHARDSON AND
W. BERGE PHILLIPS
In the capsule: the soil of five countries
By RICHARD STONE
particular memory 1 will take back to my club is of
your beautiful necrology ceremony for Lions who had
passed on, and the wonderful piece of equipment designed
for it,” announced a delegate at the winding up of the Ninth
Convention of Australian Lions at the Chevron Hilton Hotel
in Sydney.
On the last day of the week-long convention, there were
still 800 Lions and “Lions’ Ladies” (many prefer the unofficial
title “Lioness”) in the Chevron banqueting hall, decorated
with the flags of all nations and draped with the blue and
gold of Lionism.
As the quiet, well-dressed meeting rapidly passed a series
of minor amendments to the constitution, the chairman of
the Convention Organising Committee, Mr Aubrey Bowen
(officially known as “Lion Aub”), pushed open a side door and
demonstrated the necrology equipment, now partially dis-
mantled, and surrounded by folded tables and similar back-
stage paraphernalia.
The main component was a polished wooden picture
frame about eight feet high. White silk material was draped
round the back of the frame to form a kind of grotto, and
purple curtains, on hidden runners, hung at each side of the
opening in the frame.
“At the end of each year,’’ explained Lion Aub, “we
hold a necrology ceremony honoring the Lions who have
passed away during the past financial year. This time there
were 24.” Lion Aub pulled a cord, and closed the purple
curtains, concealing the interior of the frame.
“We had this up on the platform,” he said, “with the
curtains closed, and the convention hall in darkness. As the
electric organ played, the curtains parted, to reveal this
Lion Aub pointed to a large letter L, about six feet high,
standing nearby. It was painted gold, and had a fluorescent
lighting tube running down the back of it. The front of the
L was studded with 24 small rings.
“The light behind it made it stand out in the darkness,”
said Lion Aub. “Then, while an orator read a tribute to the
Lions who had passed on, a model came out and placed a
rose in one of these rings for each name mentioned. The
roses will be taken back to the clubs concerned, as a mark
of honor for their departed members.”
The necrology ceremony drew 1100 Lions and Lionesses,
ranking equal, as an attraction, with the official opening of
the Convention by Sir Eric Woodward and the ball at the
Trocadero.
The series of study-groups and forums during the week
were only slightly less well attended, however, for the Lions
are one oi the most dedicated of the community-service
organisations now flourishing all round the world. Begun,
like most similar groups, in the United States (in Chicago,
in 1917), the Lions now claim to be the largest, fastest-
growing, and most representative service-club group of them
all, with 620,000 members in 108 countries.
“The name was originally chosen because of the pride
and strength of the king of beasts,” explained a Lioness from
Townsville at the Convention. “But since then it has been
decided that the letters of the name stand for Liberty, Intel-
ligence, Our Nation’s Safety.”
Lion Bruce Turner, Convention Publicity Director,
admitted that although Lionism has penetrated all continents,
it has yet to reach the Communist regions. “There's some talk
of taking Lionism to Russia,” said Lion Bruce, “and we'd like
to do it. Communist China, too. We’d do more good in China
in twelve months than all the politicians have in ten years. But
the centre of Lionism is in the United States, and they’re not
too keen on it.”
The international outlook of Lionism is fostered by the
structure of the organisation. The Central Board of Directors
of Lions International is in Chicago, and meets three times a
year. Under the Directors there is a Board of International
Relations, which includes a representative of all Lionised
countries.
Australia falls into “Area 10,” and is known as “Multiple
District 201." The Australian Council, or ruling body, consists
of the “International Director” for Australia (appointed by
the Board of International Relations) and the “District
Governors” of the five districts in Australia. The 6000 Lions
in the five districts belong to individual clubs, each run by
a Board of Directors. (There is only one paid officer in
Australia—the national Secretary.)
Tn essence, Lionism is dedicated to the idea of community
service. Its members follow a “Code of Ethics” which ranges
from business principles (“No. 2: To seek success and to
demand all fair remuneration or profit as my just due, but to
accept no profit or success at the price of my own self-respect
lost because of unfair advantage taken or because of question-
able acts on my part”) to Christian charity (“No. S: To be
carefui with my criticisms and liberal with my praise ; to
build up and not destroy”).
Lions deny, however, that Lionism is either a business-
men's benefit organisation or a religious association. “A lot
of people think they can join the Lions and do themselves a
bit of good,” said a Lion from Victoria, “but they soon find
out otherwise. If they don't pull their weight they get thrown
out.” (In District 2018 last year 979 members were added,
but 673 were “dropped”.)
“We won’t have anything to do with any denomination
or political party,” said Lion Bruce. “And we don’t compete
with any other group. In fact we often work with them in
times of national calamity, especially Rotary, which is very
much like the Lions. We also collect a lot of members from
Apex when they reach forty and have to resign.”
The Lions, in their blue-and-gold forage caps, have become
familiar figures in Australian towns and cities as they work
on “projects” (198,000 last year). These range from straight
fund-raising (£248,000 last year) to the building of community
centres and hospitals, in which barristers and shopkeepers
work side by side as bricklayers or carpenters.
Belonging to a Lions Club is a recognised status symbol,
and is neither easy nor cheap. (There is only one honorary
Lion in Australia: Mr R. G. Menzies, who was given the
“Award of Merit” in 1954 ; when Alderman Jensen, a Sydney
Lion, was honored by the Jewish community recently, the
Lions matched it with the “Distinguished Service Award.”)
Membership is by invitation only, and there is a rigid “category-
limit” system to prevent a bloc of any particular type of
member (say, barristers or bank managers or insurance brokers)
from gaining too much influence in a club.


CLOSING SATURDAY!
THE
GOVERNMENT-GUARANTEED
SYDNEY
WATER
BOARD
5i%
LOAN
FOR 7, 10 or 20 YEARS!
There are very important differences between the Sydney
Water Board Loan and investments that depend on continu-
ing favourable conditions to pay dividends. Because of the
New South Wales Government Guarantee, investors in
Sydney Water Board Loans are assured of regular interest
payments every 6 months, and repayment of capital in full
at maturity.
You may therefore invest in the Sydney Water Board Loan
with complete confidence. Apart from the Government
Guarantee the Loan is also secured on the Board’s income
which, for 1961/62, is estimated at £19,500,000.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR
GOVERNMENT-GUARANTEED
51% TODAY!
APPLY at any office of the —
• Commonwealth Trading Bank;
O Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited;
• Bank of New South Wales;
• Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited;
Or through a Stockbroker;
Or at the Sydney Water Board offices.
THE SYDNEY WATER BOARD LOAN
Underwritten by lan Potter & Co.
“What happens is that usually a member proposes a
friend, and brings him along to three of our dinners,” explained
Lion Bruce. “After that he comes before the membership
committee for screening. The obligations he will have to
undertake are made clear to him, and his replies considered.
If he doesn’t come up to standard, the recommendation doesn’t
go forward.
“There’s nothing snobbish about us. Say somebody
proposes a bus-conductor. Our constitution says that a Lion
must be of sound moral character. Well, there’s nothing
against a bus-conductor there. But he’s told that he might
not be able to keep up his financial commitments. Then he’d
be unhappy, and so would we. So we don't get into this
situation.”
The financial commitments of a Lion begin with an
annual subscription of not less than £7 12s. Clubs can,
however, call for any amount required for a project. “1 should
say it costs, on average, about £7O a year to be a Lion,” said
Lion Bruce.
A large display of emblems and insignia at the doorway of
the Convention hinted at the discipline demanded of Lions.
“Attendance Stimulator Cards” were available at 80 for 15s.
“Don’t be a bad hombre —attend meetings!” said one card,
showing a maned Lion dressed as a bandit. “You are on your
way to the Lions' meeting? Well —good !” said another, show-
ing a Lion guiltily sneaking off with a bag of golf clubs.
There were also badges: the “100% Efficiency Award”
(255.), the “President’s Appreciation Award” (255.), the
“Solid Gold Star Award” (£2 7s. 6d.), and “Lion Tamer,”
/‘Tail Twister,” and “Past Tail Twister.”
“The Lion Tamer is the member appointed to look after
seating arrangements and similar details for our dinners,”
explained a Lion from Cairns, pausing beside the display to
buy himself a Lions’ windscreen sticker. “The Tail Twister
is responsible for keeping everybody amused at dinners —you
,know, organising jokes and things like that. We never discuss
business at our club meetings—never. That’s all done by the
various Business Committees and Activity Committees.”
Another thing the Lions never do at their meetings is to
admit women. “We can form ladies’ auxiliaries, and help with
some of the projects,” said a Lioness from Hobart, “but it’s
strictly for men only, really.” Lion Bruce added emphatically:
“We wouldn’t consider having women as Lions for five
minutes. It’s hard enough as it is keeping ourselves amused.”
(That this masculine preserve, like other Australian male
institutions, is under some pressure is disclosed in a contribu-
tion by a Lion to “Pride,” the magazine of District 2018, which
begins: “Breathes there a Lion with soul so dead, Who when
his wife has said, ‘Another night I’ll be alone,’ Replies,
‘Lionesses never moan.’ ”)
At last it was time for the ceremony of furling the flags,
until the Tenth Lions’ Convention in 1962, which is to be
held at Surfer’s Paradise. Fifty-odd Lions and 14 Boy Scouts
were marshalled outside the banqueting hall, and, to a thump-
ing march on the electric organ (played by a non-Lioness),
t they filed down the centre of the gathering, rounded the plat-
form, collected the flags, and then lined up down the centre
of the hall, each holding a flag.
All the committee members left the platform, leaving only
one Lion, wearing a dinner-jacket, and holding a large,
tasselled Australian flag. Another Lion came through a side
door and blew a short bugle call.
Then, at a signal from the Lion M.C., the organist began
■to play “Will Ye No Come Back Again.” As the flag-bearing
Lions and Boy Scouts began to file out, the massed Lions and
Lionesses, reading the words from leaflets, raised their voices
in a specially Lionised version of the old Scottish ballad:
Convention now is timed to close
With friendly thoughts, but with regret
Together we sing the old refrain,
Will ye no come back again?
And when in Surfer’s we'll rejoice
To be together and raise our voice,
A little time will still be found
% • To think of us in Sydney Town.
We look to days when again we’ll form
In other towns where welcome’s warm
And meet together every time
To say, “It’s great to be a Lion.”


AUSTRALIA AND THE WORLD
Famine in China-
A Smoke-screen?
China wants us to concentrate on the famine caused
by natural disasters, but we should look elsewhere,
SIR JOHN TEASDALE
Big deal
By C. T. HALLY
Everyone seems to take it for granted that the whole
of China is suffering from a famine. The wheat deals
themselves are not conclusive evidence of this. In assess-
ing the agricultural situation inside China we have to
rely on either the reports of refugees and visitors or on
Communist sources. The refugees escape to Hong Kong
or Macao from rice-eating South-east China. They
come from the larger cities and offer only hearsay
evidence of what is going on in the villages near the
cities. They give a very partial picture as well over
500,000,000 Chinese live in small villages distant from
cities. Visitors see only a certain portion of the country,
but, even so, if the famine were as widespread as is claimed
one would expect some reports of it to come from the
most rosy-spectacled visitor. No such reports have come.
Communist sources have given rather full reports of
famine, but it is necessary to examine these critically.
'TThe recently-announced Canadian and Australian wheat
deals with China call for some assessment. Do they mean
that there is famine in China or do they mean something less,
a very serious agricultural crisis? Might they indicate a
desire by Red China to link the economies of these countries
with her own for political purposes?
In addition to over a million tons of wheat already sold
to China this year, the Australian Wheat Board has contracted
to ship a further 750,000 tons to China between July 1 and
November 15 and possibly 250,000 tons more before December
31. The Canadian Board has agreed to sell just over 6 million
tons of wheat and barley between June 1 of this year and
December, 1963.
That there is widespread famine in China at present is
unlikely, otherwise why postpone the shipment of foodstuffs
till the middle of the year? Moreover, since the Canadian
contract covers three years this puts it out of the category
of an emergency measure. Eight-million tons of grain
represents a lot of food. Doled out to the 200 million non-rice-
eating Chinese over three years it would represent a welcome
supplement to local production. It could indicate a fairly
serious fall-off in yield from the China wheat belt.
To assess the agricultural situation inside China we have
to rely almost completely on Communist sources. These are
often contradictory over a period of time. But from these
very contradictions, and from the change in emphasis given
in reports and articles, a certain pattern does emerge.
On June 3, 1959, the year after the establishment of the
communes in China’s agriculture, the Peking “People’s Daily”
gave glowing accounts of their effectiveness. Despite the fact
that a quarter of the country’s arable land had been hit by
natural disasters in the previous year, production had risen
spectacularly.
Again in the June 18, 1960, issue of the same paper
appeared claims that the commune system had completely
overcome the forces of nature. Production had again risen
in 1959, although natural disasters had seriously affected over
a third (37 per cent.) of the farm land of China.
But six months later the Hsinhua News Agency (Dec. 28)
reported that calamities, the worst in a hundred years, had hit
China in 1960. Floods, typhoons, pests and drought had
affected over half (57 per cent.) of the farm land and produc-
tion had fallen.
What are we to make of these statements? Are we to
take them at their face value? It is significant that the period
of natural disasters reported in the Communist press coincides
exactly with the years of the communes. Now, as everybody
knows, such calamities in China have been recorded since
the Chou dynasty hundreds of years B.C. Floods, droughts,
locusts and other afflictions have perpetually recurred. With-
out the help of modern science, the Chinese evolved a system
of agriculture which has enabled them, notwithstanding their
vast numbers, to survive such disasters. Only a sudden and
radical change of the system could produce a food crisis
unusual in Chinese experience, even if the inclemency of the
weather during the past three years has been as widespread,
prolonged and severe as the Communist press maintains.
The commune system was just such a sudden and radical
change. The “People’s Daily,’’ April 7, 1960, boasted that
the 740,000 production “co-operatives’’ before 1958 had been
transformed into 24,000 communes each with an average of
20,000 persons and 10,500 acres. The purpose seems to have
been to create large work forces under immediate control oi
party cadres. They were to direct the members in a wider i
range of productive activities and also introduce them to new
agricultural methods. Communal kitchens along with creches
and “happy homes” for the aged facilitated the release of I
women for work outside the home. Party control of food !
consumption, it was hoped, would create surpluses of food <
which could be used to feed the swollen populations of the
new industrial centres and pay for the “big leap” in industry. ‘
The first official indication that all was not well in the
new Garden of Eden appeared in the “People’s Daily,
November 12, 1960, in an article signed by Lu Li. If P‘ al!1 s
blunt language he called attention to abuses. “There weie
places where the nature of the soil was disregarded, systems $
and methods of cultivation which did not suit the nature an o
conditions of the place were adopted.” . ~a
We may suspect that the real cause of falling-off in f°°
production is the indiscriminate use of deep ploughing, c 0" /
sowing, substitution of higher for lower yielding plants a j,
such like. If the people couldn’t protest, the soil did.


\
The move to build a new network of roads in
the northern interior has about it the touch
of statesmanship.
Any plan for road-building in this country is
important. But where this latest scheme rises
above the standard of ordinary action is in its
being backed by special Federal assistance.
It does more than project the further opening
of those cattle and mineral lands which the roads
are intended primarily to serve. It shows that at
last, under the necessity for developing our major
exports, we are getting more of a northerly direction
into the national thinking.
Until now Australia’s mainstream of
development has been on or near the coast, or
in inland areas where the conditions have ranged
from excellent to tolerably good for agriculture
and stock-raising.
This has been all very well, to a singularly
successful point. One effect of it has been to build
up strong secondary industries in the more populous
coastal centres. But it does not, and cannot, satisfy
the obligation we have to set Australia on its way
to full and lasting greatness. Only the unlocking
of the country’s interior wealth by the provision
of roads and power and water will enable us
to do that.
All this is obvious to anyone looking at a
map of Australia, marking the enormous potential
and studying the uneven spread of population. We
have known it for years. And the knowing has been
like many a good intention; unacted upon in any
measure that would do justice to the rich reality
behind it.
What must hearten and inspire, in this new
wider approach to Australia’s future, is that we
are beginning to face the facts surrounding our
country’s promise regardless of State or Territorial
boundaries; in other words, getting down to those
practicals in performance that add up to sound
national sense.
And if it has taken some temporary economic
checks to teach us this wisdom, the purchase price
will prove in the coming years to have been very
small indeed.
Moreover, the regimentation of the peasants had other
j£ |e effects relative to food production. The abolition of
private property, added to the employment of the peasants’
-spare time” on such far-fetched projects as the village
“small-high” furnaces, left them without either the incentive
or time to grow vegetables or to collect fodder for their pigs
and chickens.
The 9th Plenum of the Central Committee took place on
January 14-18. It did not publish its report. Some indication
0 f the changes envisaged by the Plenum appeared in two
articles in the fortnightly “Red Flag” of February 1 by Po I-po,
l, ea d of the State Economic Commission, and of March 1 by
gaWen-jui, Minister for Labor.
This is the gist of what they had to say: the communes
jre jn eclipse ; the old farmers were right; one must take
account of objective limitations ; one cannot do everything by
sheer determination ; the voice of science should be listened
to; one ought to supply raw material for light industries;
development of heavy industry was excessive ; the mines could
not keep pace with demand ; a lull of three years is
contemplated.
1 We would like to know why China is buying so much
wheat considering that most of the population eats rice. Is
it because production has failed primarily in the wheat-
producing areas of the north? The Communist drive for
collective farming has been restrained in central and southern
China owing to the nature of rice cultivation, the exceptionally
dense population in these areas, and the physical features of
these territories which are generally mountainous.
The great North China plain has apparently been prepared
[or collective farming and mechanisation. Thousands of small
villages have been destroyed ; innumerable cemeteries with
their shady trees have disappeared. It would appear that this
massive transformation has left the land more liable than ever
before to the onslaughts of droughts and floods. Production
dropped instead of rising ; how much we have not been told.
But we do know that the factories failed to turn out the tractors
and other machinery that would have made possible collective
farming. The peasants there may have been finally
disillusioned for they have been promised an era of plenty
consequent on mechanisation of the wheat-belt. The Party
may have to supply them with adequate food now to prevent
serious unrest.
f}R is the reason for the purchase of wheat basically econo-
mic? For a thousand years the exclusively agricultural
economy of China had been able to balance itself. People
from the North China plain and marginal lands had con-
stantly migrated to the south and to a lesser extent further-
north into Manchuria. The reason for this constant one-way
movement was that the north was more subject to drought and
floods than south and central China.
The Communists have reversed this process in the interests
of industrialisation. Instead of expanding the existing industries
of the coastal cities, Mao set out to create a huge industrial
complex in the wilderness of North-west China. This area
flas witnessed a rapid development of industrialisation drawing
Millions of people into newly-created cities.
One may legitimately presume that this process of
reversing the age-old economic trend has given rise to the
Present crisis in which China finds herself. The country is
Aiding it difficult to keep up a policy of producing sufficient
A°°d (a) to feed an increasing population, ( b ) for export to
pay for the ambitious industrial programme, (c) to maintain
Hrants to foreign countries for political purposes. China is
already heavily indebted to Russia and her satellites. This
"ould seem to be the significance of the credit arrangements
asked for by the Communists when negotiating to buy our
wheat.
Since they are attempting to get us to concentrate our
attention on “famine” in China, it would be prudent for us
to look instead at the economic crisis in that country. The mere
SlZe of the wheat contract should open our eyes to the potential
°t China in playing the new game of economic sabotage in
afield where we are particularly vulnerable.
For years now we have been bemoaning the fact that the
Americans have allowed the Communists to seize the military
Initiative in South-east Asia. Has China suddenly taken the
"illative on our own economic front?


The Man on the Land
LAMB: An
Undeveloped Asset
In the Murray valley
America , potential export market for Australian lamb, should
be wooed now—even before the developing irrigation schemes
of NoS.W., Victoria, South Australia and the Snowy Mountains
bring info being an area the size of Denmark where the staple
industry could be lamb-production for export .
By M. H. ELLIS
Many an Australian industry of great potentiality has
languished, or had to struggle for years for its foot-
hold, through lack of vision, lack of salesmanship and
lack of study of the possibilities in the early stages of
market development.
The mutton and lamb industry is a case in point.
Meat is an increasingly important Australian export and
would become even more so if production could be cheapened,
abbatoir organisation stabilised and markets more closely
studied.
With the development of a proper system of Queensland
roads to allow the carriage of calves instead of bullocks from
northern fattening areas the output of prime export beef could
doubtless be increased and cheapened by putting more meat
onto individual animals and turning over animals more quickly.
Lamb and mutton, however, are a different problem. The
Australian himself is a lamb-eater. He is not generally, in the
cities anyway, a mutton-eater. There is a tendency unique to
this country to believe that only lamb is the choicest meat.
Export markets for beef and mutton are still relatively
undeveloped. Output of mutton in 1959-60 was about 198,000
tons (bone-in meat, ex offal) and lamb 359,000 tons. But the
export, mainly to the United Kingdom, was only 30,000 tons
of each, in competition with New Zealand and with British
local choice supplies rising.
It is amazing that the United Kingdom, with a rising
population, intensifying industrialisation and less than 28
million sheep, produced last year over 240,000 tons of mutton
and lamb against Australia’s 550,000 tons.
An equally amazing comparative fact is that the United
States, with a human population going on for three and three-
quarter times that of the United Kingdom, with still wide-open
spaces and a vast grain surplus, has only about 34 million
sheep, or six million more than the United Kingdom ; that is,
one sheep to every six of population, while the United Kingdom
has one to every two.
Largely, the place of lamb in the Australian menu is taken
in the United States by pork, poultry and turkey. However,
the chicken population of the United States, like animal popu-
lations, has fallen away considerably since the end of the
war in spite of the industrialisation of poultry raising.
Tn Australia there was a great build-up of beef export in
1959-60, largely owing to the heavy rise in American demand
for manufacturing” qualities of beef, which fortunately came
along at a time when it was most needed—the U.K. agreement
having left all but first- and second-grade meats to other
markets. Canning-quality beef, therefore, found a splendid
sale at high prices. The export for this year will fall consider-
ably short against last year, through a greater shortage of
supplies, which even last year were down about 15 per cent,
against 1958-59. This is the result of drought, not lack of
either local or overseas demand, though local demand is very
much affected by high prices consequent on shortage and
overseas competition.
High prices tend to force the housewife to look for
cheaper meat than beef and veal. Hence there was a fall in
1959-60 in the per capita consumption of beef among the
world’s greatest meat-eaters, Australians, from 117.51 b. per
head to 100.91 b. The mutton and lamb consumption figure
reacted and rose till it nearly equalled the beef figure—by
12.81 b. to 99.81 b. a head.
There seems to be no doubt that with quicker turnover
and the subsidiary return for wool, plus the ability to associate
mutton and lamb raising with general farm and grain produc-
tion on small areas, mutton and lamb have a distinct advantage
over beef in production conditions.
Sheep have also had an advantage pound for pound in net
local raising cost over poultry. Even in districts where five
and six sheep to the acre are carried on highly developed and
equipped land the contrast in basic costs has been marked.
Until recently there was no large-scale bulk production of
young chicken meat expressly for the table on the industrialised
basis which is universal in the United States.
The recent development of American methods in
poultry-farming, however, and the influx of migrants is
changing the eating habits of Australia very rapidly. In a
few years the standardised hen will have become a very ,
powerful competitor of the standardised lamb, if not of |
the hogget and full-grown sheep. Already poultry is over-
hauling beef and mutton in price competition, and soon, as
in American cities, it may be the cheapest form of meat.
The day of the turkey is to come. Some Australian breeders
are already turning out hormone-fed, yard-bred, weight-
regulated birds for export, and restaurants are learning that
turkey is a most economical form of meat package, giving
clean cuts with little bone and far less waste than chickens
or even baby lamb. But the housewife demand for both
chicken and turkey has yet to have an impact on the sale
of animal meats.
A ustralia has little chance of greatly expanding the
mutton and lamb market if the poultry supply develops
as expected and if beef-raisers meet th'e price situation on a
proper basis. There are, however, great chances in the
export trade if the world’s markets are properly explores


This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
(A member of Commercial Union Australia Group)
ESTABLISHED ISti.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS' BAGGAGE INSURED
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
F. S. IVA T&ON. Mnmipr r.
an d the opportunities in them vigorously nurtured. Some
0 f the highest potentials are in America, both North and
South.
North America is a high-priced market. And there is
little chance of any other pastoral country competing
against us in it, once we can persuade the Americans that
mutton is not merely food for dogs.
Peoples of Spanish, Portuguese and Middle Asian coun-
tries are all mutton-eaters who should soon be able to buy
from us as their standards of living rise. They certainly have
no t the pastures to produce their own at our levels of quality.
Moreover, it seems, from their reactions in Australia, that a
market for lamb might soon be possible with the Japanese,
especially if their economic climate improves. Meanwhile
; there undoubtedly is a fine opening in the United States and
Canada, where the only mutton and lamb sold from here
a re small quantities of heavier carcasses and boned mutton.
The attitude of the North Americans to mutton is
peculiar. It somewhat resembles that of the Northern
Territory drover who refers to “them woollies” with bitter scorn
i as if he were discussing some kind of vermin or the politicians.
They seem to have a feeling that there is something effeminate
ijn eating sheep. This is most peculiar in a diet-mad nation
where diet-charts rate the calorific value of lamb as slightly
higher than that of beef. One chart gives 1025 calories per
pound of leg of lamb against 1000 calories for lib. of roast
beef and 987 calories per pound of round steak.
Surely it would be possible with advertising on a proper
(scale to sell mutton and lamb in the United States, and even
Ito turn them into prestige foods to be exported packaged. It
heeds some imaginative persuasion with the Department of
Trade behind it to prove that mutton and lamb can be nutritious
delicacies in a country in which fens of thousands do not
regularly eat animal meat except pork in anything but ham-
burger form.
The critic of the enterprise will naturally counter it with
the proverb, “First catch your lamb before you sell him.”
Actually the market probably awaits production and exploita-
tion. Mutton and lamb can both be increased year in and year
out. Even the abnormal conditions of last year produced an
increase in Australia’s output of mutton by 15.6 per cent, and
lamb by 8.7 per cent, against the previous year —this though
the general tendency in production, partly due to high costs
and freights, has been downward or static in relation to the
advances in population over the past decade. South Australia,
Western Australia and Tasmania are the only States which
show any marked advance in output over the averages of the
last four pre-war years.
The last four years have seen considerable strides made,
both in quantity (only 367,000 tons in 1956-57 against the
550,000 tons last year) and in quality. The demand for lamb
has steadily encroached on that for mutton in the Australian
domestic market; so that where before the war the consumption
per head was about 601 b. of mutton and 151 b. of lamb it is now
nearer the other way round.
Australia has always been plagued by the surplus-grain
question. There is always a substantial carry-over of wheat,
with a price competition that can only be dealt with through
subsidy and world agreements. A great increase has taken
Place in quantities used for stockfeeding, which are well over
double the figures of pre-war years. There is certainly no dearth
of fattening feed for sheep, and they provide a convenient way,
ion-competitive in the direct grain market, of exporting grain
ou the hoof instead of in holds in bulk.
The fast-developing irrigation areas of N.S.W. and Vic-
toria in particular, and of South Australia, the spread of sub.-
dover and revolutionary expansions of pasture improvement
dove transformed the south-eastern sections of N.S.W. But
/Kent expansions are only a prelude to what will happen when
toe great extensions of water conservation in Victoria and the
decanting by the Snowy Mountains scheme of a million acre-
feet of water a year into the Murrumbidgee system and 800,000
tore-feet into Murray waters, create a new irrigation kingdom
as large and productive as Denmark, of which the main staple
ffldustry should be lamb production for export.
The public-relations men of the Department of Trade and
toe mutton industry at large should surely be getting out their
American dictionaries of superlatives and building the founda-
dons of great markets to come, rather than waiting for nature
to take its course when the full bulk of production becomes
bailable.


FORUM
The Rights of
Public Servants
The Bazeley Case raises the question:
Who is to be master?
By R. S. PARKER
J 'HE Federal Opposition s suspicion of Dr Cameron s Serum
Laboratories Bill was almost inevitable. The Bill bore all the
mar\s of the time-dishonored pattern upon which businessmen s
Governments in Australia have prepared “socialistic” lambs for the
slaughter. The suspicion was naturally redoubled by two events
which followed the unexpected introduction of the Bill. The
Director of the Serum Laboratories, Dr P. L. Bazeley, committed a
very rare \ind of breach of public service convention by attaching
the Bill in the newspapers and engaging in talks on the subject
with Opposition leaders in Canberra. And in spite of protests the
Minister, Dr Cameron, announced a belated Government decision
to force the Bill through Parliament in the last crowded days
of the Session.
Opposition members, leader-writers and
other citizens felt sympathy and
concern when Dr Bazeley was suspended
from his post as Director on a charge of
breaking public service regulations by
newspaper “criticism of” and attempts to
“promote opposition to” the Bill. It is
easy to understand Mr Allan Fraser, on
behalf of Labor’s parliamentary Health
Committee, expressing the wish that “the
splendid services of Dr Bazeley should
be retained in directing the laboratories.”
It is easier still to share the worry of the
former Precentor of St Paul’s, Melbourne,
that “prominent citizens, however eminent
in intellect or achievement, were to be
muzzled because they worked in the
public service and dared not express a
deep concern for the welfare of the people
except under threat of having their heads
chopped off, professionally, financially
and socially.”
Nevertheless the public service issues
are by no means so clear-cut as the
political ones, or as some of Dr Bazeley's
sympathisers seem to imagine. Without
commenting on the merits of the particu-
lar charges which may be the subject of
inquiry in the Bazeley case, it is clear
in the first place that there is no question
in this case of some novel and arbitrary
invasion of civil servants' rights by the
Government or anyone else. The pro-
cedure followed was, in substance, laid
down in the Commonwealth Public Ser-
vice Act when the Service was founded
60 years ago. Similarly, the kind of
regulation Dr Bazeley is charged with
infringing—that “an officer shall not . .
publicly comment upon any administrative
action or upon the administration of any
Department”—is as old as the Service, is
founded upon earlier British precedent,
and is perfectly familiar to public servants
in other governments besides that of the
Commonwealth. It usually goes along
with companion rules that officers must
not use official information except for
their work, or disclose it to other people
without permission. An interesting point
is that such rules have remained un-
changed no matter how liberal the ex-
tension to public servants of various
political rights— to engage in party organ-
isation and activity, to serve in various
elected bodies other than Parliament, and
in some Australian States at least, to be
candidates for Parliament without resign-
ing unless elected.
The reasoning behind the restrictive
rules is simple enough, especially in a
country with responsible parliamentary
government and a permanent civil service.
Here the assumption is that civil servants
are the instruments and advisers of
Ministers, while Ministers are responsible
for everything done or left undone by
their Departments. The Minister is the
elected representative of the people ; he
takes the praise or blame for what his
officials do ; he stands or falls by what
the electors think of his Department’s
administration—or of that of his Govern-
ment collectively. The public servant’s
job, on the other hand, is permanent and
protected. He gets no special benefit
This section of "The Bulletin" is 0
forum of opinion and conflicting
ideas. Each week it will contain
controversial articles and replies
to them.
P. L. BAZELEY
A very rare kind of breach
from public acclaim of his Department’s
work ; but neither does he suffer person-
ally if its policies prove unpopular. No
doubt such a role would be irksome to
many creative souls ; it demands a special
kind of temperament, and mutual give-
and-take in the delicate relationship it
sets up between Ministers and officials.
That there are enough of such tempera-
ments and of such mutual forbearance
is shown by the persistence of the system
and the rarity of open clashes like the
Bazeley one.
If this system is to work effectively,
several conditions must be met. Ministers
must be obeyed, in the last resort, by
theii public servants ; otherwise electors
would lose control of what the Depart-
ments did. Equally, Ministers must get
the fullest and frankest advice from their
public servants. Here is the main reason
for the security and permanence of public
service jobs: it is to give them time to
become expert advisers, and freedom to
be courageous advisers.
This is where the rules against public
comment come in. Firstly, public critic-
ism of Government decisions by officials
may be seen as a form of disobedience:
it is an attempt to sabotage what the
Government has decided to do. The
public servant may be actuated by the
highest motives —or, conceivably, his
motives may be far from altruistic. But
this is not the main point. “The question
is,” as Humpty Dumpty said, “which is
to be master —that's all.’
Secondly, and perhaps paradoxically,
there is the view that unfettered freedom
of official speech would sooner or later
result in a senior civil service of political
“yes-men.” Rather than be exposed to
the constant risk of public attack oy
their own officials, Ministers would insist
on filling the top posts with acquiescent
nobodies or even party political sym-
pathisers, This would deprive them 0
the frank and sometimes unpalatable, bu
honest and experienced advice they n°' v
expect; and it would destroy the
of a “career” civil service open to P el "
manent officers right to the top.


So runs the argument, and it has sur-
vived many a scrutiny by reformers and
committees of inquiry in various public
services. It is an argument to be
reckoned with, and critics of the kind of
regulations under which Dr Bazeley has
been charged need to ask themselves how
much they value the twin institutions of
elected, responsible Ministers and per-
manent, anonymous advisers.
This is a system, by the way, that does
not require Ministers always to accept
official advice, or even to ask for it. Was
Dr Bazeley consulted about the proposals
to put “his” laboratories under new
management? The published statements
differ on the facts of this, but they do
not affect the principle. It might have
been imprudent for the Minister to ignore
or override the Director. If he did so,
no doubt it would have been a “slight”
and a disappointment to the Director.
But it would not be a breach of constitu-
tional propriety. Public servants have
their advice rejected every other day, and,
stupid though it may seem, it is neither
wrong nor, in unsophisticated countries
like Australia, uncommon for politicians
to introduce legislation without consult-
ing their own departments beforehand.
All this being said, the question inno-
cently raised by the Melbourne divine
nags increasingly with the growth of the
bureaucratic, technocratic state. Can we
afford to go on muzzling more and more
of the people best-informed —sometimes
the only ones informed —on crucial issues
of public policy? Should the Govern-
ment of the day have exclusive rights to
the knowledge and wisdom of public
servants at a time when public servants,
in the nature of things, acquire so much
of the knowledge needed for important
community decisions?
Traditionally it has been the role of
the political Opposition to criticise and
expose, if necessary, governmental plans
that may be inept or worse. This was
comparatively easy when issues were less
technical —when the implications of a
Bill, on subjects like disestablishment or
crime or voting rights, were plain upon
its surface. How effective can the Opposi-
tion be when the issue is GATT or Blue
Streak or the sale of a thousand serums,
and the full import of a new measure
may lie in a hundred regulations yet un-
born when the Bill is tabled? Often the
public servants alone may be in a posi-
tion to understand, in good time, the real
intentions of the Government and to
estimate intelligently their likely results.
Vet they are precisely the ones who, under
current rules, cannot contribute to public
debate except by resigning their jobs or
courting disgrace. If this is a serious
weakness in present-day politics, is there
any way of relieving it without sacrificing
the benefits of existing conventions?
Short of a psychological revolution in
political life, it taxes the wit of man to
imagine it. Certainly there seems to be
no solution within the framework of
“Ministerial responsibility” plus “career
Public service.”
But perhaps this framework may have
'ts limits of usefulness. For example, in
the American republic—and not neces-
sarily as part of the spoils system—-it
spenis possible to supplement a career
c >vil service system with a good deal of
mobility into and out of government
service in the upper ranks. In such a
context there are fewer inhibitions to
deter an offended senior official from
resigning and “fighting for the public
interest,” and more opportunities for ex-
officials to share with the public their in-
sights into problems of policy.
Again, the interrogation of ordinary
departmental officials by legislative com
mittces has made possible an appreciable
degree of official autonomy in the United
States. Congressional committee hear-
mgs on Budgets and Bills, and investiga-
tions of every subject, under the sun (and
beyond it) have enabled the specialised
knowledge and views of officials to be
put on public record—often before policy
is determined—on a scale unknown under
parliamentary constitutions. Yet some
of the exploits of the Commonwealth
Joint Parliamentary Committee of Public
Accounts have shown possibilities of
similar development in this country—and
underlined at the same time the inevitable
challenge it offers to Ministerial respon-
sibility, and the embarrassment it can
cause between Minister and public servant
(to say nothing of the Minister and his
party followers). The possible uses and
abuses of parliamentary committees might
well be explored by those who are anxious
to afford the public servant a wider forum
than the ear of his Minister.
Even within the accepted traditions of
parliamentary systems like the Australian
there are other gaps in the sovereignty of
Ministers. Not only Judges, but a
number of other officials Auditors-
General, Public Service Commissioners,
members of many public corporations -
hold office under statutes granting them
powers and duties for which they arc
responsible directly to Parliament. In
theory, this device could be used more
freely to confer on officials in appropriate
fields a measure of independence against
arbitrary interference by the Government
of the day. Of course these fields would,
to the same degree, be thereby removed
from “democratic control by popular
representatives.”
In practice the device offers a measure
of the difficulties of all attempts to
increase “official independence.” It is
Ministers in current Governments who
would have to accept the self-denying
ordinance of introducing more and freer
statutory posts. And" what Ministers
have, in fact, been doing for many years
in Australia is to whittle away the in-
dependence of existing statutory offices,
Ironically, it might seem, the very
measure Dr Bazeley complains of would
make him a member of a statutory Corn-
mission and no longer “merely” a depart-
mental officer. But the irony fades when
it is seen that under the new Act the
Laboratories Commission can do nothing
important without the direction or con-
sent of the Minister. Unless there were
a reversal of this trend, and of similar
recent tendencies such as the replacement
of guaranteed statutory terms of office in
such corporations by tenure subject to the
whim of the appointing Government, the
device of the “independent” statutory
office, with all its potentialities, offers little
immediate prospect of widening the area
in which certain permanent officials might
freely comment upon the policies or pre-
posals of elected Governments,
One other possibility can be mentioned
Departmental officials in the Bazeley kina
of situation might conceivably De enabled,
on narrowly specified grounds, to
“appeal" against “objectionable” Minis-
terial projects or dictates to some central
statutory authority—say the Public Ser-
vice Board or a specialised agency like
the Scandinavian “Ombudsman”? Per-
haps readers may care to debate this
proposition for themselves . . .
"A tall, dark stranger will cross your path—and trample on your
petunias, trip over the rake, break his leg and sue you!”


LETTERS
The Sharp Case
Sir,
Month in and month out nearly every
printed defence of academic freedom
that one reads is written by Mr lan
Turner or someone with an equally
creditable political history. It’s enough to
make one sick, yet one puts up with it.
By his tangled little essay in logic, how-
ever (B. 24/5/61), Mr Turner has worn
out my patience at last, and I address a
letter to a newspaper for the second time
in my life. The point I want to make is
a very general, even a philosophical, one ;
yet, by its being overlooked, the practical
effectiveness of replies to Communists
and their friends is often weakened.
These people have a long-established
technique of accusing their critics of
arguing illogically, or of making “sweep-
ing,” “wild” generalisations. The charge
of illogicality is the favorite one. It
takes the special form of a charge of
having committed the fallacy of undis-
tributed middle. All arguments, for
example, which are said to try to prove
“guilt by association” suffer from this
fallacy.
The simple point I want to draw
attention to is this: where we are trying
to establish a conclusion from two
premises one of which is not questioned,
it is logically inevitable that we either
argue invalidly or from a premise which
can be called a “sweeping” and
“question-begging” generalisation.
Suppose I want to convince someone
that Mr Smith is a Communist ; and
suppose that the evidence I cite—which
will have the form, “Mr Smith is (does,
has) X ” —is not contested. Now, the
rules of valid syllogism entail that the
other premise must be either “All Com-
munists are (do, have) X” or “Everyone
who is (does, has) A is a Communist.” If
we choose to argue from a premise of
the first form, then no matter how good
a reason Smith’s being X is for thinking
him a Communist, our argument is bound
to be fallacious by undistributed middle.
If, on the other hand, we choose a
premise of the second form, then our
argument will be formally in order, but
now we are exposed to the charge of
begging the question of Smith’s Com-
munism, by making the wild generalisa-
tion that anyone who is X, as Smith is
conceded to be, is a Communist.
If, for example, X were “a person who
regards Marx as a serious thinker,” then
we have this choice: we may premise
what is presumably true, that “all Com-
munists so regard Marx,” and then we
must err logically ; or we may premise
that “everyone who so regards Marx is
a Communist”; and avoid logical error,
only to be told that that is an irrespons-
ible and question-begging assumption.
To suppose that one can escape both
these charges is a fundamental logical
mistake.
The following are some important
consequences of this point;
1. The logical defect possessed by all
the arguments from conceded factual
evidence to prove, e.g., that Mr So-and-so,
the university lecturer, is a Communist, is
possessed also by all the arguments from
conceded factual evidence to prove that
Mr Khrushchev is a Communist.
2. Anyone who talks as though the
formal invalidity of an argument from a
conceded factual premise to Mr Smith’s
Communism were a weakness of the argu-
ment in the sense of a ground for not
accepting the conclusion, is engaged in
special pleading (since all such argu-
ments are invalid).
3. The difference between a weak and
a strong argument for thinking, e.g., that
Mr Smith is a Communist, has nothing
to do with formal validity, but depends,
as every person of commonsense knows,
on the particular factual nature of that
term X. (The argument will be strong,
though of course not logically conclu-
sive if X is “holds a current Communist-
party membership card”; it will be weak,
though not negligible, if X is “is a history
scholar at the A.N.U.”)
All this is very elementary, of course ;
yet I have never seen or heard the point
made where it was needed. On the con-
trary, we have instead a generation of
university graduates among us who never
in their lives notice a formal fallacy
except when someone is trying to prove
that So-and-so is a Communist, but who
never fail to point out the fallacy then.
That is the really sinister thing about
Australian universities.
D. Stove
Philosophy Department,
University of Sydney.
Thank heaven for Mr Stove. —Editor, The
Bulletin.
Sir,
At a recent meeting at the University
of Melbourne you were asked how one
distinguishes between a Communist
faction and a faction which contains a
Communist. In reply you advised your
questioner to read a good book on the
subject. In The Bulletin of May 24 you
repeat the advice, this time to Mr
Brissenden.
While it is no doubt charitable of you
to attribute opposition to ignorance rather
than malice, I feel that it is time that you
allowed your readers to become as well
read on the subject of Communist tactics
in universities as you seem to be. There-
fore, I would appreciate it if you would
use some of the space reserved for attacks
on readers’ letters to provide us with a
reading guide.
John Power
Cartlon (Vic.).
Mr Power might care to begin his reading
with Phillip Selznick’s “The Organisational
Weapon,” published by McGraw-Hill in 1952.
Page 67 is illuminating. On specific university
issues he could try Sidney Hook’s “Heresy,
Yes—Conspiracy, No.” I do not know if either
of these books is on his department’s reading
lists. —Editor, The Bulletin.
Sir,
The campaign to have something done
about the questionable practices of
some academics in Melbourne University
seems to be bogging down in sideline
arguments and irrelevancies.
There has been an allegation of
burglary. There has been an allegation
of insubordination to the duly responsible
and duly appointed departmental head.
So far no one has denied these allega-
tions. There have been other allegations
as well—none of them are answered or
refuted.
As a tax-paying member of the public,
I would like to know why nothing was
done about the burglary reported. Do
the general run of university authorities
sit idly by while thugs and robbers rifle
the cash-box or the library or the depart-
mental files? Is it usual practice to take
no notice whatsoever of the departmental
head’s planning when research projects
are being considered?
But the most serious aspect of this
situation is the refusal to face it and
examine it and, if need be, correct it. In
this refusal we see a symptom of the
wider refusal of society at large to face
up to the pressing responsibilities of the
day. He who will not carry responsi-
bility is in turn denied his legitimate
privileges.
John F. Heeth
Leura (N.S.fV.).
Sir,
Your correspondent Louise Mackay
(B. 24/5/61) strikes at a point relative to
what may be termed “white-anting” by
groups other than Communists.
Of the groups mentioned, all of whom
indulge in similar tactics to a varying
degree, the one most vehemently anti-
Communist is Roman Catholicism, which
strangely enough has much in common in
many ways with Communism, particu-
larly in the art of takeover tactics.
The Church admits to being authori-
tarian, and as authoritarianism is only
one step from totalitarianism, I would
venture to suggest that the surest way for
a country to become Communist would
be to firstly become Roman Catholic.
This condition appears to be borne out
by the evidence that almost all Western
countries under a dictatorship or Com-
munism are predominantly Roman
Catholic, Cuba being the latest example.
While on this subject, I would add that
many old Bulletin readers could hardly
be blamed for forming the opinion that
this paper has now become a medium of
Communist “witch-hunting” and the
propagation of Roman Catholicism in
view of the various apologetic articles
written by Mr Santamaria and others.
R. B. Lowndes
Toongabbie (N.S.W.).
NO SHORT STORY?
Sir,
I am doing a course of short-story
writing ; a writer of note advised me
to buy your paper and see what kind
of stuff you printed.
I take her advice —what do I get?
“We will not publish a short story next
week.”


What sort of an aid to the struggler
are you?
Disgusted!
S. S. McBURNIE
J)enistone East (N.S.W.).
you could always buy the previous issue,
or next week’s.—Editor, The Bulletin.
Sir,
As a now regular reader of the new
Bulletin I congratulate you on your
decision to refrain from publishing third-
rate fiction. The bushwacker league of
literature policy which pervaded the
Bulletin of old produced very little
writing of real merit.
One instantly recognised a Bulletin
writer by (a) his complete lack of psycho-
logical insight into the behavior of his
characters , ( b ) the cliched situations em-
ployed to tell what was usually a very
thin story; (c) that inarticulate, hard-
boiled but sentimental Australian hero
who strutted from page to page and (d)
the author's inability to deal convincingly
with female characters.
ALAN FITZGERALD
Clovelly (n.s.w.).
THE NAGY LETTER
Sir,
Desmond O'Grady (B. 17/5/61) re-
ferred to a letter concerning the Russian
murder of Hungarian Premier Imre
Nagy which was signed by five leading
Melbourne literary figures as a “fantastic
and frightening letter.” Mr O'Grady is
free to pass that judgment on the letter
if he so wishes, but he is not entitled to
misrepresent it as “saying that the people
who protested at this execution would use
any excuse to discredit Russia but remain
silent about Little Rock and the Rosen-
bergs.”
As will be seen from your republica-
tion of it in your last issue, the letter,
signed by Messrs C. B. Christesen, Vance
Palmer, A. A. Phillips, Laurence Collin-
son and Miss Jean Campbell, was a public
protest against the Russian act of
treachery. Mr O’Grady makes it appear
that the signatories were concerned with
excusing it; or at the very least belittling
the world-wide reaction of horror at
Nagy’s death.
It is clear that the signatories were not
only protesting against the murder of
Nagy but were seeking to add weight to
their protest by pointing out that it was
one coming from people who were not
habitually ill-disposed towards the
U.S.S.R. The five writers concerned were
surely entitled, if they so wished, to
underline the “news value” of their pro-
test in this way and draw a separating
line between themselves and, say, Mr
W. C. Wentworth and others whose
reaction to the murder of Nagy was easily
predictable.
The way in which the letter was mis-
represented by Mr O'Grady suggests that
he did not read it at all carefully.
K. D. GOTT
Brunswick (Vic.).
CATHOLICS AND THE FREE
SOCIETY
Sir,
Mr Ginnane’s treatment of “Catholics
ar ‘d the Free Society” provides a
piquantly apposite example of authori-
tarian polemical techniques.
The appeal to authority (profes-
sionalism), as a substitute for argument,
makes its predictable appearance. Certain
criticisms which I outlined of the notion
of the morally imperative are answered,
if that is the word, by branding them as
“rather secondhand, ‘period’ moral
philosophy of largely 1930’s vintage.” I
am quite well aware that these views
are no longer fashionable, at least in the
stream of “contemporary philosophical
analysis” in which Mr Ginnane floats,
but I don’t find that a terribly depressing
thought, and it certainly doesn’t convince
me that they are mistaken.
But by far his most vicious technique,
and really quite an astonishingly corrupt
one, is to present a distorted, improperly
expressed version of my conclusions, to
present this as if it were merely an un-
supported assertion on my part, and to
enclose this in quotation marks so that
any reader who did not compare his
version with the text of my chapter
would be highly likely to take it as an
actual quotation from what I had written.
Dr McCloskey receives much the same
treatment.
Mr Ginnane dismisses certain state-
ments that I made about the personality
correlates of belief in Catholic theology
as a set of a priori generalisations about
“the Catholic personality.” (This latter
phrase again is an expression and a
mode of thinking that I did not employ.)
He can regard those statements in that
way because he thinks that at least large
parts of Catholic theology are true in
an important sense have objective
reference. For reasons which I am pre-
pared to expound in great detail I do not
think theological assertions are “true”
in any sense, and therefore must regard
an individual’s holding of religious beliefs
as a (more or less harmless) bit of
psychopathology.
I argued that at those times when a
person's religious beliefs are active, then
he simply is then doing a variety of
authoritarian things (submitting, moralis-
ing, etc.). That is not to say that every
Catholic or every religious person is
being authoritarian all the time, and
through and through. It is just to assert
that religious believing is among the
varieties of authoritarian behavior, and
affords a reasonable supposition that this
is the kind of person who finds the
authoritarian attitude satisfying and will
have a tendency to use other authoritarian
techniques.
J. R. Maze
Sydney.
Sir,
In his review of Mayer’s chapter in
“Catholics and the Free Society” Mr
Truman quotes Mayer as saying in rela-
tion to Australian Catholics that any
institution which advances demands
different from those normally prevailing
in society will contribute to freedom in
it, provided the heretical institution or
movement is itself subject to considerable
internal controversy about the nature of
its demands and how they are to be
realised and that it advances its demands
on a limited and selective range of
objects. Mr Truman adds: “Dr Knop-
felmacher please note this applies to the
Communists too.”
It does, of course, not apply to the
Communists. There is no internal con-
troversy at all inside Communist parties
anywhere, and the formation of intra-
party factions for the purpose of advocat-
ing policies other than those laid down
by the leadership is strictly prohibited.
The party press does not publish letters
critical of the leadership. The last Aus-
tralian comrade who went in for a little
intra-party democracy was McDonald
from the Building Workers Union in
Melbourne. His party life after his
attempt was brutish, nasty and short.
Frank Knopfelmacher
Melbourne.
Sir,
Mr Truman paraphrases Mr Mayer:
“What is important is how people
actually behave . . . principles, morals,
values, ideas, theories, philosophies and
religions are rationalisations of in-
terests.” I do not agree that morality
and intellectual objectivity can be dis-
missed in this fashion (and if so, there
seems no point in continuing the
Humanities) but it is also quite clear
that we cannot ignore “how people
actually behave.”
At behavior level, Rome comes out of
it embarrassingly well. Taking the liberal
democracies to mean pre-eminently the
English-speaking democracies, Rome had
approved freedom of conscience while
the British Government was still busy
hanging or exiling Papist or Puritan.
Between 1628-32, Rome formally
approved of the Constitution of Mary-
land in which Protestants were allowed
to attend their own chapels, though there
seems to have been a modified restriction
oh proselytising for Protestantism.
I have to be somewhat vague about
the finer points of the Constitution be-
cause the Puritans subsequently seized
power, burnt it and forced Catholics
to flee.
This Roman-backed defence of tolera-
tion when Catholics were in an over-
whelming majority was officially re-
affirmed 50 or so years later in King
James’s “Declaration of Indulgence.”
This document guarantees freedom of
conscience to Dissenter and Catholic.
The declaration, about the length of a
short story in “The Women’s Weekly,”
is in English and can be read by anyone
who chooses to do so. It is one of the
most noble and moving defences of
human freedom I have ever read. There
is a suggestion of skating when the King
wanders near the intrinsic rights of
heretics, but as a defence of the King’s
subjects’ right to think for themselves
about their own salvation, it is heart-
warming.
Rome, at behavior level, is no threat
to English-speaking liberals, but, on the
contrary, pioneers toleration. I go
further. Bosh obscures the main point
of most of the Protestant-Catholic trials
which were carried out during war or
in an atmosphere of war and resemble
courts-martial. Clearly, the overwhelm-
ing majority of the accused would have
sided with their co-religious against the
Government of the day. Their first
loyalty was to God.


What does all this mean to the Aus-
tralian? That fear of Roman intolerance
is a neurosis like nigger-hating.
W. R. Rogers
Bondi Junction {N.S.W.).
A LIBELLOUS REVIEW?
Sir,
I readily concede to Commander
Usher that in its formative years, the
ten years preceding World War 1, the
Committee for Imperial Defence did a
good job and carried out faithfully the
ideas of the Esher Committee which
recommended it. Also, 1 am willing to
concede the possibility that it was the
prototype for the Anglo-American Joint
Chiefs of Staff Committees and even
some of the special committees operating
in the U.S. Armed Forces as liaison with
the U.S. Government today, although I
could think of other examples in U.S.
history as well.
But every institution must be judged
by its fruits, and on this score I think
that the committee in its activities in the
period 1921-1939 failed to keep the
Government, the Services, and the people
properly aware of our dangers and the
means of averting them.
Specifically, I referred to Hong Kong
and Singapore. The latter is the more
important case.
As Mr Churchill puts it in “Hinge of
Fate,” page 137: “All Australian military
thought had regarded Singapore as the
key to the whole defence of the outposts
and forward positions upon which Aus-
tralia relied.” Why were successive
Governments and Service chiefs not kept
informed that Singapore was out of date
by the time it was completed as a base?
Does this not indicate that the C.I.D.
failed to “obtain and co-ordinate for
the use of Cabinet, all information and
expert advice required for the shaping
of national policy in war, and for deter-
mining the necessary preparations in
peace” (quote from the recommenda-
tions of the Esher Committee).
May I repeat —this committee did a
very good job in preparing the Empire
for World War I, but it failed signally
to do so for World War II —that is why
I referred to it as antiquated. Time just
got ahead of it too quickly.
Normally my views are much nearer
to Commander Usher’s than on this
occasion.
A. W. SHEPPARD
Sydney.
DR MANNIX AND THE
“CATHOLIC WORKER”
Sir,
The following facts are relevant to
Mr B. A. Santamaria’s claim, made in
his article in your paper of May 10, that
Dr Mannix did not ban the “Catholic
Worker.”
In 1955 I was the chairman of the
“Catholic Worker,” which is a monthly
newspaper owned and published by
Catholic laymen. Its proprietors are
members of a voluntary association of
individuals and it is not an instrumen-
tality or agency of the Church or the
Hierarchy. The proprietors are solely
responsible for the paper's policy.
In order, however, to ensure correct-
ness as to any matters of faith or morals
which may be discussed from time to
time in the paper the proprietors a long
time ago requested the Archbishop of
Melbourne to nominate a priest to read
the proofs before publication each month
and to advise as to any matter relating
to faith or morals appearing in the paper.
The priest appointed for this purpose
has on occasions offered Mass at which
the proprietors and members of the com-
mittee which run the paper have attended
as a body and he occasionally attended
as a guest at social functions in connec-
tion with the paper. At the relevant time
there was not, and as far as I am aware
there never has been, a chaplain to the
“Catholic Worker.”
When the April, 1955, issue was
actually being printed Father John P.
Pierce, our then adviser on matters of
faith and morals, told me that he was
concerned about the front-page article
appearing under the heading “The
Church, The A.L.P. and Mr Denys
Jackson.”
I asked him if there was any matter
of faith and morals involved, and he
said no. He went on to say, however,
that he was nevertheless concerned about
the article in view of current political
controversy and the personal views of
Dr Mannix with regard to the A.L.P.
and the Industrial Groups. I told Father
Pierce that the committee had carefully
considered the matter before authorising
publication and had instructed me that
unless he objected to any material on
the basis of being contrary to faith or
morals the article was to be published.
Subsequently Monsignor (as he then
was) A. F. Fox spoke to me on a
number of occasions and strongly urged
me not to proceed with the publication
of this issue of the “C.W.”. He also
told me to visit Dr Mannix. Pursuant
to his request I did so. Dr Mannix said
that he was very displeased with the
“C.W.” and that he firmly disagreed
with the views set out in the article
above referred to. On terminating the
interview he said: “Something will have
to be done about this issue of the
‘Catholic Worker’.”
A week or so later my attention was
drawn to a circular letter sent to priests
of the archdiocese and reading as
follows:
(PERSONAL.)
30th March, 1955
Reverend and dear Father,
The issue of April, 1955, of the “Catholic
Worker” has been sent to the distributors this
week against the advice of the Chaplain, who
also acts as censor of this newspaper.
I myself am forbidding its sale at the
Cathedral and at the churches in the Cathedral
Parish from next Sunday onwards. The Parish
Priests, of course, are not. bound to follow
my example; but the Archbishop has asked
me to let you know the above facts and that
he does not approve of certain matter appearing
in this issue. 8
I think the above statement of facts
is relevant to any consideration by your
readers in judging whether Mr Santa-
maria’s assessment of the attitude of Dr
Mannix in this particular instance is an
example of any quality of “essential
liberalism.”
In my opinion the phrasing of the
circular in the form above set out was
very unfair. The juxtaposition of the
words “advice,” “Chaplain” and
“censor” gave a nuance to the tone of
the circular which has been a factor in
the decline in the circulation of the paper
since April, 1955.
I can well understand that Dr Mannix
and Mr Santamaria have much in com-
mon in the sphere of party politics.
T. M. BUTLER
East Kew {Vic.).
EDITOR WHO CHANGED
AUSTRALIA
Sir,
The memoir of James Edmond by
Mr J. E. Webb (B. 24/5/61) was a
well - deserved but long - delayed and
loving tribute to a great editor and a
magnificent writer. He did not pretend
to be a great Gibbonian stylist, but. he
wrote with glowing vitality, a fresh and
vivid imagination and above all a genius
for original, humorous and completely
apt description.
Having written a lot for The Bulletin
while he was editor I knew his kindness
and his demand for self-discipline on the
part of writers for his paper ; he hated
humbugs.
I would like to make a strong plea for
republication of his short stories. One,
originally published in “The Lone Hand, ’
“Barrios, Consul for Galatia” is one of
the best in the English language.
J. V. DUHIG
Brisbane.


OUT and ABOUT
SOCIETY
Overheard
I First speaker: “She saved up for two
years for her fur coat. Then she wore
sjl only once. She died.’’
Second speaker: “Something like that
always happens.”
The conversationalists? Two young
schoolgirls in holiday clothes, not includ-
ing fur coats.
j&eorge Flattens 'Em
Affice workers resting on the grass in
Sydney’ Macquarie Place these days
are goaded to unaccustomed mental
activity by a grizzled old philosopher,
familiarly known as George. George pro-
claims two theories, or maybe they are
one. The first is that mass needs spirit
or ego before it can focalise power ; the
second is that the earth is flat.
To demonstrate the first theory he has
aboard to which are strapped a cylinder
of steel wool (inert matter), a bronze pot
mit (matter enlivened by ego) and a dish
washer (dish washer). Between them is an
inky message beginning “The Magic
Bubble” and concluding “It’s true because
it’s true.”
His audience, mesmerised by the
novelty of all this, comes to life when
George gets onto his flat-earth theory,
backed up by two discs of cardboard and
a Bible written in Hebrew. George has
the initiative and, with the help of a con-
vert, made on the spot, has the better of
the laughing jackasses who say “but
everyone knows the world is round.”
He is not so convincing when arguing
that Parramatta Road would not be flat
if it was bent around a globe like the
cardboard disc in his hand, but when
asked why don't people fall off the edge
of the flat world, George has his clincher :
“They don’t fall off, they’re oxygenised! ”
Certain characters —Elijah was one-
have reached a state where they are not
oxygenised. That, perhaps, is where the
dish washer comes in.
The Fats of Life
It seems inevitable that Dr H. M.
Whyte’s book, “The Fats of Life,”
should appear in print at least once as
The Facts of Life." That is rather the
Penalty of finding a clever title for your
hook. However, Dr Whyte, who is re-
search director of the Kanematsu Insti-
tute, attached to Sydney Hospital, would
Probably think either title appropriate.
The book is a simple approach to eating
and cooking to avoid coronary heart
disease. It is published by Ure Smith
and all royalties will go to the National
Heart Foundation.
The Second-best Things
Tt is hard to make out a case for the
best things in life being free, but in
Sydney these past few days there seems
to have been a remarkable number of
second-best things for those with time,
but not money, to spend. There were
the new observation post overlooking
Benelong Point, where the Opera House
is taking remarkable shape, and hard
by in Sydney Cove, the Esmeralda. There
were an exhibition of Chilean products
at the Commonwealth Bank, some British
travel books on show at the Public
Library, and an exhibition, com-
memorating the centenary of Italy’s
risorgimento, in the Qantas foyer. For
those who care for that sort of thing,
there was a demonstration at David
Jones of how the wool futures market
operates.
The observation post above the opera
site commands a splendid view, and
receives a cheering amount of winter
sunshine By pressing a button you can
have the voice of Professor Ashworth
from Sydney University turning to order
the chaos before you.
Visitors to the Chilean sailing ship,
Esmeralda, caused record traffic jams at
Circular Quay, but it still seemed some-
what inhospitable that three of the
officers should have their hired car towed
away in George Street, and have to pay
£4 10s. to get it back. One of the officers
explained that in Chile you could park
anywhere at any time, a state of affairs
which hasn’t existed in Sydney since the
days of sail.
It was interesting to note from the
exhibition of Chilean products that she
has also borrowed French names for her
wines. There were burgundies, clarets
and chablis.
Oscars
T> ussell Drysdale got the oscar
awarded by the Grenfell Henry
Lawson Festival committee for the person
who made the outstanding contribution to
the arts in Australia in 1960-61. The
short story oscar went to R. N. Callander
of Ivanhoe, Vic., and the verse oscar to
J. T. Kennedy, of Chatswood, Sydney.
Once When He Was
Mustering
A Western Queensland grazier who
can’t write a note of music has
already sold more than 100,000 copies
of a bush ballad in Britain, Europe and
Australia. He is Waverley Jackson, of
Rockvale Station, who says he composes
the words and tune in his head while
boundary riding or mustering cattle.
His success followed an offer by Aus-
tralian recording artist, Slim Dusty, to
include Jackson’s “Once When I Was
“Do you think We should break it open—or cook it in the shell?"


Mustering” on Dusty’s popular hit. “The
Pub With No Beer.” Jackson says: “1
can turn the songs out quick smart, but
getting a bloke to write the music is not
easy in the bush.”
"The No-Hopers"
"Deter Baty, who is production managei
to the Western Australian National
Theatre, will have his first play, “The
No-Hopers,” produced at the Perth Play-
house this month. Baty is a Victorian
who came to the West, via Sydney. After
two years at the drama school, then run
by the Melbourne University Conserva-
torium, he came to Sydney and joined
the Phillip Street theatre. A tour with
Edwin Styles in “Not in the Book”
finished in Perth, and Baty stayed there.
Baty was stage director for the original
season of “The Summer of the 17th
Doll” in Melbourne. His own play is
set in an up-country pub.
Past Persuasion
HPhere is one infallible way in Sydney
A of knowing that the Indian summer
has gone and it’s really winter. It's when
the first pale beauty, frolicking on the
pebbles of Margate, appears in the after-
noon papers. Then you know that it’s
become impossible for even the most
persuasive photographers on the after-
noon papers to cajole pretty girls into
getting into a swimsuit and standing
shivering on the sands at Bondi in the
hope that all this agony will lead to a
modelling career.
SOME OF THE PEOPLE
DETURNING from an overseas trip,
Professor C. H. Munro, honorary
director of research for the Water Re-
search Foundation of Australia, said that
Australia would be the first country to
make extensive use of salt-to-fresh water
conversion. A great amount of work
was being done in America to cheapen
the process, and only a slight decrease
in the price would make the conversion
practicable for South Australia.
Twenty-nine-year-old Fred Grogan, a
black tracker from Cooktown (Q’ld),
found in Melbourne that because he had
been in Victoria for more than three
months he was entitled to a vote for
the first time in his life.
A Commission of Investigation ap-
pointed by the North Queensland Angli-
can Synod recommended that the late
John Oliver Fectham, Bishop of North
Queensland from 1913 to 1947, be
honored as “a saint and hero of the
Faith,” with the style “John Oliver of
North Queensland.”
Re-elected as chairman of the New
England New State Movement, Peter
Wright said in Armidale that contribu-
tions .had raised financial backing for
the movement to £94,000. Of the move-
ment’s future he said: “Things will not
be dead easy. . . There may have to be,
not illegal, but perhaps
action.”
On a shooting holiday at Bourke Ron
Reece fired one barrel of his 12-gauge
shotgun and saw two ’roos drop in their
tracks. A third foundered up against a
tree and Reece was about to let it
have the second barrel when it, too,
fell dead.
Yallaroi Shire Council discussed an
appeal to take an active part in the
National Heart Campaign, but Council-
lor Makin was not too enthusiastic.
“This is a job that the president might
like to take on,” he said, “but I don’t
think we as a council can do anything.
As far as I can see these things are
the greatest ‘rort’ of all time.” Councillor
Nicholson suggested that “it wouldn’t
hurt to put an ad. in the paper inviting
subscriptions,” "nd after support from
Councillor Peaching (“Some fellow
might get drunk and give us a fiver”),
council gave its approval for an ad. in
the Warialda Standard.
V. J. W. Skermer, secretary and chief
inspector of the Commonwealth Audit
Office since 1951, was announced as
successor to H. C. Newman, retiring
after six years as Commonwealth
Auditor-General.
In Brisbane H. T. Gibbs, Q.C., was
appointed a Judge of the Queensland
Supreme Court, and T. Hein Queens-
land’s Surveyor-General.
Navy Minister Gorton said that 170
original members of the Royal Aus-
tralian Navy, founded in 1911, had
been located, and would be invited as
guests in their home States at this year’s
jubilee celebrations.
Professor Rupert Myers, Head of the
School of Metallurgy at the University
of N.S.W., was appointed a Pro-Vice-
Chancellor of the University.
On an inspection of army exercises at
Tin Can Bay (Q’ld), the Chief of the
General Staff Lieut-General R. G.
Pollard, said Australia could not defend
the north of Australia by herself. He
said: “We depend on our allies, and if
would be ridiculous for us to try to
overcome our problems on our own.
That was Society
A feature of the trades union move-
ment in New South Wales is the erup-
tion of the Young Brigade, and it is
this Young Brigade which has had most
influence in changing the complexion of
the Political Labor movement, and mak-
ing it National and Australian instead
of sectional and parochial, as once it
threatened to be. There have always
of course, been the young enthusiasts;
but when they asserted their views
strongly they were usually put in their
places by a reference to the five minutes
or so that they had spent in the union.
Even now, there are trades-unionists and
others who rise from obscurity and
claim recognition on the ground that
they have 35 years, seven weeks and
seven days service behind them; but the
movement has learned at last that length
of service can’t compare with energy of
service.—“ Bulletin,” March 2, 1911.
Mary Gilmore recently made the as-
tounding discovery that, as far as Victoria
is concerned, anyhow, handkerchiefs are
not allowed, let alone supplied, in gaol.
Apparently some circles in Victoria regard
a handkerchief as a luxury instead of
a common necessity, but a handkerchief-
less gaol must be an abomination to paid
and unpaid staff alike.
— “Bulletin” June 15, 1911.
Melbourne “Advocate” proposes that
the name of Collins Street should be
altered to Batman Street. A mismint,
no doubt, for Fatman Street.
— “Bulletin,” March 9, 1911.
A french physician has discovered that
smoking promotes deafness, “by the well-
known effect of nicotine on the vaso-
motor system, which produces vascular
hypertensive phenomena which are not
compensated in the cavity of the ty-
panum.” As soon as The Bulletin re
ceived the news it threw its old cherry-
wood down the Wild Cat shaft, and,
rushing round to the chemist next to
the Blue Anchor, asked for a remedy.
“Water,” said the druggist, and went
on rolling his breadcrumbs.
—— “Bulletin,” June 22, 1911.
Things look promising for an improve-
ment in the Melbourne police service.
After Chief Commissioner O’Callaghau’s
overcoat had been stolen from Moonee
Valley the other week, a South Melbourne
constable was robbed of a suite of fur-
niture. Now that the inefficiency of the
force has begun to find it out, and the
sins of the system are being visited on
the officers, the way of the evil-doer is
likely to become harder. And if only
an Archbishop would allow himself to
be bitten by a plague-stricken rat, every
alderman would declare war on the pest
within a week.—“ Bulletin,” June 22, 1911.
There evidently is a shortage of labor
in Australia, with high wages as a con-
sequence. Thus, in one capita], a “free
labourers’ union” has been formed, and
the principal officers are to get 300
pieces of gold a year. Some time ago,
for somewhat similar work, a man was
paid in silver.— “ Bulletin,” June 22, 1911.


Re added: “I think it is premature to
worry about the north now.”
Tan Gay Chee, 19-year-old student at
a Perth technical school, beat all
challengers in an adding contest. The
challengers used a comptometer; Tan
niade do with an abacus.
The Wyndham report on education
according to J. M. Blatt, professor of
applied mathematics at the University of
N.S.W., had no use because it had
“ignored the problems of costs and staff-
ing.” He added that it must have been
“born in cloud-cuckoo land, where
trained teachers and pound notes grew
on trees.”
English judges Stephen Spender and
Melvin J. Lasky awarded the third £lOO
prize for the best annual contribution
to the Australian magazine “Quadrant”
to Sydney writer Desmond O’Grady for
a story “Old Buffers,” written in Rome
about a Middle Park (Melbourne) car-
nival, linking an adolescent boy’s growth
with his grandfather's death.
Into the Silence:-
In Sydney, at 69, Sir Richard Boyer, chair-
man of the Australian Broadcasting Commis-
sion. A Gallipoli veteran, Boyer had been a
Methodist minister and a grazier before he
joined the Commission in 1940 as Queensland
member.
In Sydney, Mrs Mary Hordern, a leading
member of the N.S.W. Gallery Society, which
she helped to found, who was made a Chevalier
of the Legion of Honour for her part in
organising the French Exhibition at Sydney's
1956 Royal Easter Show.
In Adelaide, at 72, William Laurence Davies,
a master at Adelaide’s Prince Alfred College for
30 years and a winner of the M.C. in the First
World War.
In Perth, at 91, Joseph William Diver, a
Londoner who arrived in Westralia in 1892.
Diver helped form the Carpenters’ Union and
the W.A. Trades and Labor Council, pioneered
the formation of the W.A. Wheat Pool and
was an executive member of the W.A. Farmers’
Union.
At Williamstown (Vic.), at 84, John Francis
Bracken, since 1926 owner-editor of the
“Williamstown Advertiser.”
FOR THE OBSERVER
How to Run
a Festival
'T'hinking of running a festival to put
-*• your town on the map? Fair
enough, everybody’s doing it. Let’s take
a glance at the way that an Australian
country town, called Wattle Bend,
organises its Koala Week.
The first axiom in organising and run-
ning a festival is to “think big and act
big.” Import from a nearby city a team
of Croatian Folk Dancers and have them
perform nightly. Never mind if it’s any-
thing to do with koalas or not. The
crowds love it. As a special draw you
can include a rock-'n’-roll exhibition,
performed by a group of eight-year-old
“typically American kids,” imported at
great expense from your nearest city.
Try also for another little dose of the
Continental by arranging dancing in the
street after the show. Supposing the
townspeople and the hordes of “excited
tourists” are too shy to dance in the
street, employ a special M.C. to break
down the standoffish mood of the crowd
and develop “togetherness.” Keep in
mind what makes 100-odd people crowd
into a telephone-box. This can be
exploited to get people in the carnival
mood.
Another way to make sure everyone
knows it’s Koala Week at Wattle Bend
is to arrange the festival during the very
time travellers will be passing through
the town on their way somewhere else.
You might even be lucky enough to be
on a main highway.
Remember, you must first catch your
tourist. Set up road-blocks and organise
the townspeople into two shock brigades.
The first group plasters stickers on the
cars and tries to sell the visitors green-
and-pink pennants with “Souvenir of
Koala Week —1961 Wattle Bend.”
Tourists just love flags and things to show
their friends and relations where they’ve
been. The next group hands out leaflets
advertising all the attractions of Koala
Week, e.g., Teams of Pretty Marching
Girls (an old Australian custom), Boat-
races, Mammoth Procession of Attractive
Floats, Catch the Trout Competitions,
Street Stalls, etc.—things the tourist
couldn’t possibly have seen before.
Don’t forget that “think big, act big,”
should also be applied to refreshments
for the gasping, excited tourist. Help the
local boys along and shop locally. Just
because the Mayor owns the largest
grocery store in town and drives a Mer-
cedes, don’t deny him his share of the
cut. Be democratic. He's just as import-
ant as the little men. Spend as much
money as possible in the town. Buy
thousands of soft drinks and pennants —-
at retail prices. Use the old American
“get up and go” outlook: “You gotta
spend money to make money!”
Another sure way to success is don’t,
for goodness sake, call for volunteers for
anything. Remember, the paid man
always has his heart in the job. The


WHITE HORSE
SCOTCH WHISKY
nm
(j§
> &
r-
J
m \
wi \
r /•;
/'r.u
/
r I mi i ii
■ A
31
r
/ V
i! :
&
WKI
; h <->
Old
ISK)
ScotcK
(ELLAK
Br
"wMiky
'=*
'.IS
«
■^•’LUTS'S
Pleasant accompaniment to
bar-side discussions, White
Horse Scotch Whisky. And
at least one subject upon
which complete agreement
is always reached—for it’s
an age-old fact that there
is no finer Scotch Whisky
anywhere. White Horse . . .
of course.
Available in three handy sizes:
26-oz. bottles, "halves" and
"quarters."
At Standard Brand Prices.
volunteer mightn’t turn up, or, if he does,
might act as though he’s on a picnic.
Import an organiser, at great expense,
and give him an office up at the local
show pavilion. Doesn’t matter if it's
out of the way. He’ll have more time
to apply to organising instead of answer-
ing silly questions from the people who
are supplying the money.
Clear the old chook-cages out of his
office. This is where the little voluntary
labor used comes in. Splash a few cans
of white paint around one Saturday
afternoon. Make sure you provide an
eighteen of beer, and don’t forget to
advertise it. Volunteers really go for this
type of an outing. Then put a notice
in the local paper and appeal for a chair
and table. Organisers appreciate this
sort of personal touch. Give the
organiser £2O a week and 20 per cent, of
the net takings. Make sure, though,
there’s precious little net left by spending
freely in the town.
Another wrinkle that really gets the
crowd on its toes and in a festive mood
is to start the float procession off an
hour or so late. Be cunning in your
advertising. Don’t give any definite hour
for the procession to start. Remember,
there are always latecomers and the
longer the procession, the more impres-
sive it is. Also, a long procession will
hold up tourists hurrying somewhere else.
They’ll probably have to stay and join i a
—or else.
Lastly, just to give the Koala Festival
motive and poignancy at the same time
beg, borrow or steal a live koala. Have
him or her perform tricks throughout
the festival in a eucalyptus-stuffed shop-
window in town. The Mayor’s shop will
do. He might even suggest this. Don't
worry if the other windows of the store
are laden with slashed-price bargains.
It’s all for the town’s benefit, isn’t it?
A really dramatic, last-minute gambit
is for the Mayor to take his annual holi-
days ; better still—a quick circumference
of the world to study other festivals and
how they are run. This leaves virtually
no one of stature to meet and entertain
important personages like wandering
Mayors from other towns, observers,
State Governors and local Members of
Parliament. If they wander around town
looking lost and lonely in their black
Packards, why worry as long as they're
spending. Remember what the Mayor
said before he went away on his world
trip: “Every tourist is worth at least a
caser a day to the town!” Twenty or so
lost official visitors means 20 casers to
Main Street, and so on.
Finally, a word of advice when the
balance-sheet comes out for the festival
and you see there’s £6BOO spent and £7OOO
in kitty. Put the £2OO away for an emer-
gency, because, brother, that emergency’s
going to come around again next year at
the next Koala Festival. You’re going
to need every caser of it!
WARWICK CHAMBERS
Taken from the
Chinese
pvcvoTEES of Chinese cooking always
seem to be complaining that you
can't get real Chinese cooking in Aus-
tralia ; this in spite of the fact that the
cafe cook may have deserted his ship
only a couple of weeks before. They
say you can’t even get real Chinese food
on the ships which ply between here and
Hong Kong. And you can't get real
Chinese food in Hong Kong. It’s just
tourist stuff. That leaves only Red
China for real Chinese cooking.
Political difficulties aside, it is doubtful
whether many Westerners would really
relish Chinese food in China. British
journalist James Cameron, after exten-
sively touring Red China, reported that
not once was he served any part of a
fowl he could recognise or relish. And
dog is accepted as one of the six staple
foods.
Mimie Ouei in her book “The Art of
Chinese Cooking,” published by W. H.
Allen, makes it quite clear that Chinese
cooking should not be represented as a
method of putting exotic things, like
wood ear or lotus seed, together, but as
a method of cooking. Some knowledge
of the way the Chinese cook should make
good cooks better, as well as providing
new dishes for the family menu.
One of Miss Ouei’s strangest recollec-
tions of her young life in China is of an
aunt who regularly gave instructions to
her chef on how dishes could be im-
proved. The aunt had never in her life


entered a kitchen. Miss Ouei said this
was quite common in China where upper-
class women acquired a good theoretical
knowledge of cooking, but were never —
lucky them! required to put it into
practice.
Miss Ouei points out that there are five
main regional types of Chinese cooking,
Cantonese, Fukienese, Shantungese,
Honanese and Szechuanese. Cantonese is
probably the best known in Australia.
Canton became rich after her doors were
opened to foreign trade in the last cen-
tury. With wealth came the desire for
good food, and a cuisine characterised by
sauteeing, roasting and grilling, was
developed.
Miss Ouei herself came from Fukien
and, naturally, thinks it is the best cook-
ing in China. The Fukienese were sailors,
and their style of cooking travelled to
other parts of South-east Asia. The best
soy sauce used to come from Fukien.
Spring rolls were one of the specialities.
Many people from the province of
Shantung migrated to nearby Peking, and
took their cooking with them. Shantung
cooking uses a lot of wine. The mod
famous dish from the region is Peking
duck.
Honan is the home of sweet-and-sour
dishes and carp from the Yellow River
is famous. Szechuan, in the far west, has
very hot summers and the Szechuanese,
like most people who live in hot climates,
developed a highly seasoned cuisine,
There are no recipes for birds -nest
soup, but Miss Ouei does give a method
of preserving eggs for 100 days. You
take 12 eggs, two cups of mud, six cups
of lime and four cups of rice husks. Mix
the mud with the lime and quickly cover
the eggs with the mixture, then roll in
rice husks so they can be handled. Place
in a cool, dark place for about 100 days,
Crack the lime covering and shell the
eggs. Wash them with water and cut
into quarters lengthwise. The white of
the egg will have become dark green and
gelatinous and the yolk orange-green ;
the taste will be reminiscent of cheese.
These may be served as a hors d’ceuvre.
SPORT
England’s Cricket
Can Blaze
«7ill Australia and England play the
'' bright test cricket they have
promised in the current series in
England?
In the recent Australia-Indies series
the first-ever test tie in Brisbane and the
match - saving last - wicket stand in
Adelaide whetted everyone’s appetite for
sensational cricket.
Accordingly, Australian captain
Richie Benaud won the world’s applause
when he pledged his team to the bright
policy in this present season’s tests
against England. English critics have
churned out column after column urging
their side to accept the Australian chal-
lenge as life - saving therapy for the
could-be-dying game.
No one doubts Benaud’s eagerness to
‘keep the kettle boiling.” But will
England respond? Australia - England
tests of recent years have been grimly
fought, often dull affairs. And England
mainly has been blamed for this because
of its alleged policy of “always play to
win, never to lose.”
During all the excitement of last
summer’s Brisbane tie and Adelaide
draw, events rated as the most thrilling
finishes in test history, no one recalled
England’s share in comparable thrillers
of other years —as, for instance, in South
Africa in 1949. Maybe it was because
the cold print of the cricket record
hooks, so often belying the tension of
a match, merely says that England won
by three wickets.
That victory in South Africa proved
that English cricketers, when they want
to, can be just as exciting as the Aus-
tralians and West Indians were a few
months ago.
The story of that match at Port
Elizabeth, South Africa, is worth recall-
ing right now when English cricketing
attitudes are in some doubt.
England had won one test and three
had been drawn before that final 1949
encounter at Port Elizabeth.
The early stages of the match were
dull. The South African batsmen showed
a disinclination to hit out. Many critics
believed the South Africans lost a chance
of victory on the second day when, with
their batsmen on top, they refused to go
for runs. Mitchell made 99 in 6j. hours.
Wade took almost five hours to reach
a century. The South African total of
379 took more than nine hours to make.
It was left to England's captain.
George Mann, to put some life into the
proceedings —and this at a time when
England was in trouble against the spin
bowling of South Africa’s Athol Rowan.
Jumping to the pitch of the ball, Mann
hit a dozen fours and a six and was
136 not out when England’s innings
ended for 395 —a first innings English
lead of 16.
Despite Mann’s bright batting, the
match was as good as dead. With only
one day left, there were two innings
still to be completed. When the South
African batsmen (3-187) retired to their
dressing-room for tea on the last day
it seemed that the match was doomed
to peter out in the dullest of draws.
But during the tea adjournment. South
African captain Nourse had an inspira-
tion. As one of the not-out batsmen,
he had up-to-the-minute knowledge of
the pitch. He realised it would take
spin. It his spinners could get wickets
quickly, South Africa would have a
chance of winning and squaring the
rubber. “I’m going to declare.” he
announced to his astonished team-mates.
Nourse had decided to take the greatest
gamble in cricket test history. The news
was received with amazement in the
England dressing - room. Ninety - five
minutes were left for play and England
had to score 172 to win. Theoretically,
it was not impossible, but to score nearly
two runs a minute throughout the last
session of a test match was asking for
something. Still, the bait was tempting
and the English captain decided to take it.
“Go all out for the runs,” Mann told
England's openers, Hutton and Wash-
brook. Cuan McCarthy, one of the
world’s fastest bowlers of the time,
opened the South African attack.
Thirteen runs came from his first over.
Hutton hit the first ball for four and
Washbrook hooked one for six. Tuckett,
another fast bowler, operated from the
other end and his first over yielded 10
runs. The two fast bowlers had only a
r couple of overs each before Nourse called
upon his spinners. But the flow of
runs continued and England quickly
reached 50.
Hutton was stumped soon afterwards,
but Washbrook lasted long enough to
see 100 posted on the board. By this
time the spectators were jeering Nourse
for “a suicidal declaration which was
making England a gift of the match.”
But, suddenly,' with the effect of the
roller wearing off the pitch, a dramatic
.change came. England lost Compton,
Mann and Bedser for the addition of
only one run. The boot was on the other
foot and the hoots for Nourse changed
to cheers.
Less than half an hour remained and
England was still 50 runs short of its
target with five men out. England had
only one good batsman, Jack Crapp,
and the tail left. South Africa’s spinners
were turning the ball viciously and it
looked as though Nourse's fantastic
gamble would pay off after all. With
England “behind the clock” Nourse
could have settled for a draw by bring-
ing his fast bowlers back into action.
A couple of overs would be the most
they could bowl in the remaining time.
But Nourse chose to persevere with his
spinners. When the last over (eight balls)
began England needed eight runs for
victory. The crowd watched in an agony
of suspense. The first four balls were
scoreless. All that was now settled was
that, because of the time factor, England,
with three wickets in hand, could not
lose The fifth ball was cut for four, and
two came off the next.
Two balls were left and England
needed two runs. But only one of them
was necessary. Batsman Jack Crapp
stepped out to the seventh ball and
flashed an off-drive —ironically in the
direction of Nourse. The South African
captain made a desperate dive, but the


ball just touched his fingertips as it sped
on to the boundary.
England had answered a challenge in
scoring 174 runs in 95 minutes to win a
test.
England also made a colorful fight
against the Australian team led by War-
wick Armstrong in the third test at Leeds
in 1921. Armstrong’s men had annihilated
English cricket in the first two tests. For
the third test England transferred the
captaincy from J. W. H. T. Douglas to
Lionel Tennyson.
England made a good start, getting
Australia’s first two wickets cheaply.
But tragedy was just around the corner
for England. Tennyson split his hand so
badly while fielding that he had to
retire. Australia thrashed up a first
innings total of 407, and England’s wickets
tumbled. With seven Englishmen out for
165, no one held out much hope for a
recovery. To everybody’s astonishment,
Tennyson came out to bat next. His
split hand was heavily bandaged, and,
holding the bat in only one hand, he
faced the fury of the great Australian
speed attack. Tennyson was not content
to merely hold up an end for the other
batsman. With one hand he flayed the
bowling to all parts of the field in the
most courageous innings in Test history.
When England’s innings ended at 259,
he had scored 63 of the last 95 runs.
Australia declared its second innings
at 7-273, leaving England 422 to score
in four and a half hours. Tennyson in-
sisted that England go for the runs. Eng-
land scored only 202 of which Tennyson,
in another gallant one-handed effort, con-
tributed 36
We know that Richie Benaud (Aus-
tralia) and Frank Worrell (West Indies)
are of that inspiring type. Now it is up
to the England leader in the next few
weeks to follow the examples of such
of his own English predecessors as Mann
and Tennyson.
GEORGE CRAWFORD
FOR THE CONSUMER
The Superseded
Supermarket
Quite soon, probably this week, some-
one will step off a jet from the
United States and announce that the
supermarket is out of date. Rather, the
term is likely to be “superseded.” And
what is to supersede the supermarket?
According to recent reports from Ameri-
ca, it is something revolutionary called
a shopping centre.
This gives a rather frightening picture
of just how out of date Australia really
is. Here, there are large areas, whole
suburbs and towns, which so far haven’t
got even one supermarket worthy of
the name. Oh, they might have a self-
service grocery store, or some of the more
progressive shops might have installed
those “island” counters which are, per-
force, self-service (no shop assistant for
counters round will ever take any
responsibility for “island” counters, and
the only thing to do is to serve yourself
and go for your life).
But there are many places in Australia
even now where you can’t buy breakfast
food, washing machines and a back axle
for your car under the same roof. Where,
instead of leaving the car at the furthest
end of the parking station and walking
a quarter of a mile to the supermarket
and then, loaded like a packhorSe, walk-
ing back again, shoppers still follow the
primitive method of parking outside the
shop, going in, sitting down (is there
anything more wasteful than counter
seats?) and waiting for the grocer’s boy
to carry the box to the car.
Much will have to be done, involving
millions of pounds, building more and
more supermarkets before Australia will
be safely in a position to declare they
are obsolete, and then proceed to catch
up with this American idea of shopping
centres. Australians will have to face
up to the fact that it is not possible to
declare supermarkets superseded until
you have built them.
According to recent reports from the
United States, it has been discovered,
presumably by the sort of people who
are always talking about spending mil-
lions of dollars annually on research, that
American housewives, shopping at the
supermarket, miss the friendly gossip at
the local store. It has taken several
years and millions of dollars to find
this out. Anyone who had had the
sense to stand on a street-corner for half
an hour 10 to 15 years ago could have
found it out for nothing.
A spokesman for a New York com-
pany, which has created several of these
new centres, said: “They’re more than
just somewhere to shop—they’re the
social focus of the community for miles
around. Your theatre is here. So is
your movie house. So is the hall where
all kinds of social meetings are held, and
so are the local dances. The whole
family comes here, and meets other
families to have fun.”
Well, that’s a shopping centre. How
it differs from an Australian suburban
shopping street, or the main street of
a country town, nobody, except an expert,
who spends millions annually on research,
would know.
A Tax on Advertising ?
A PAMPHLET, issued by the Fabian
Society in England, suggests that
advertising should be taxed to establish
a Consumer Advice Fund. The pamphlet
is “A Tax on Advertising?” by Max
Corden.
Mr Corden claims that there is “a
strong case for some kind of tax on
advertisers.” He says it should perhaps
be limited to 10 to 20 per cent, of the
actual advertising expenditure, or to
particular types of advertising, e.g., tele-
vision.
He estimates that about half of all
advertising is “of doubtful economic
value,” and urges that part of the £4OO
million being spent on advertising in
Britain should be used to supply fh e
consumer with independent information
on products.


Wheat farmers! Here is the revolutionary new
ORB
LYSAGHT
All-purpose
SILO
* Patent Pending SSOO7/S9
L ww.a-iy designed tor
your needs after extensive
field research based on
the supply of over 20,000
units in the last decade.
Here is a silo that will
earn money for you all the
year round. When not
being used for bulk grain,
it becomes a perfect all-
purpose storage unit simply
b\ opening the doors and
slipping out the bulkheads.
M.
M
mmi
m*
ill
m
III:
.JjSl!
**H ij
ggW'-’.ww.wjuw
■:M
M
:^w.wwiw
Piiiili
v^y^s.
A
•■
•v
rsa
35?
mocipMioeMpppp.
yye.WM.VjL»ww
H
&g
$1
Many new time-saving, money-saving advantages!
• Full-Size "Walk-In" Door (silos from
1,200 bushels upwards) enables silos
to be emptied and cleaned with a
minimum of time, effort, discomfort.
* Easier, Faster, Cheaper Erection.
* Vertically Rigidised Walls and 6-
Fly Horizontal Ribs for added
strength.
• Revolutionary New Robust Posi-
tive-Action Bagging Outlet
complete with bag holder and steel
cover.
® Auger Chute and Sampling Outlet
=—in bottom bulkhead behind the door.
• Wider Turned-Down Eaves on
Roof Panels.
• Fully Rodent-Proof Construction.
° Improved Centre and Side-Filling
Hole Assemblies complete with
hinged lids and positive fastenings.
ALL THESE PLUS THE FOLLOWING
OPTIONAL EXTRAS cuts overall costs
up to £lOO.
• Easy-to-install Heavy-Gauge Steel
Floor . . . suitable for conical or flat
bases.
© Steel Earth Ring.
PRICES (F.O.R. Newcastle?
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
Offices sa Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Fremantle. S34MS


ABORIGINALITIES
The Queer ’Un
'T'he winter crept away ; the fog and
mist rolled back off the Tenterfield
hills long enough to suggest to the lizards
in the shelter of the old stringy-bark
boles that they might yet see another
golden summer.
Time, too, for the bees to stir from
their winter cluster. I had left a stand
on the red-stringy, a winter bloomer,
and it was now time to move them on.
I reached the site an hour before the
sun dropped. The bees had gone. At
the farm-house, the cocky told me what
he knew.
“A big joker in an ole Chev. picked
’em up a fortnight or more ago,” he
said. “Told me he’d fixed you up for
’em. Said it was all right.”
An easy piece of arithmetic. To the
east, deep in the ranges among the rums
of an old goldmine town, I’d find the
big fellow, the old Chev. and the bees.
Dark settled in as I left the gate ; 50
miles of corrugates to go.
A lonely place at any time. Outcrops
of great granite boulders, the tall stringies
and the brooding ranges a hand’s thrust
away . . .
He opened the hut door as I cut the
motor. The yellow gloom of the lantern-
light behind him built him into a giant.
He called out in the darkness.
“Don’t touch the gate!”
He turned, picked up the lantern and
lumbered out. He bent over, his big
hands moved over the gate posts, then he
straightened and waved the light.
I crawled out of the cab. A couple
of hundred miles don’t make a man any
younger.
He held the light high and peered.
“Thought it was you. I heard the
squeakers in the blossom the ’smornin’
and I said: ‘He’ll be along any time now.
Watch where y’r steppin’ now.”
I followed him through the gate. A
passion vine, heavy with foliage, hung
a foot over our heads. I wasn’t too calm.
I pulled at a waving tendril and said:
“I come for the bees. I heard that
you
“Don’t pull that. Blow us both to
beggary. That’s waitin’ for him if he
wants another go at thievin’ it. Come
inside. What’d you hear?”
His knife and plate and pannikin were
se t out on the deal table. A fire smoked
through the broken column of the stove,
I sat on the edge of a box. I said: “They
told me you’d put the bees on a flow
f° r me • • •”
There was no need to say if I hadn’t
found them they’d be a good start for
a bee-yard.
He gave out a high cackle of laughter,
It was like the sudden flurry of a dis-
turbed fowl, unsafe on its night perch,
“They’re strong, brother. They’re
workin’, I tell you. Workin’ day an’
night now. You can’t shift ’em. They’re
workin’ black on the outsides of the
boxes till after midnight. Hah! ”
The prospect of a man moving those
bees, black on the boxes, fired his humor.
He let go his laugh. “You’ll kill your-
self. Smother the bees. Leave’m. Leave
’em an’ I’ll give you a few bob for ’em.
That suit?”
The thought cheered me. I was beaten,
anyhow, before I started. How could a
man move a hive, stuck to the lid with
honey, a thousand stings waiting and a
"When We come to the Equator, is there any sort of
crossing-the-line ceremony ?”
plug of gun-cotton or something under
every second box. The man might be
a lunatic, but his money would trade.
“Might be all right.”
“Give you two quid.”
A man might be apprehensive—but
touch his pocket . . .
“Huh. Open your mouth up!”
“Three.”
I was committed now. I looked for
a place to spit.
“You’ll smother ’em, brother. Seen it
done before. How c'n you lift ’em?
Give you four, brother. Don’t want to
see you bust yisself.”
He suddenly recalled something. He
lumbered from the fireplace and brushed
into the next room. For a fair Lime it
was quiet. A thin cat came in, some-
thing in its mouth. I bent to look closer
and the laughter caught me unawares.
I straightened up and twisted round.
“Seen these things, brother?”
He had one in each great hand. He
had his fingers through the trigger-
guards, and as they spun the yellow
light flickered on the smooth barrels.
Low on his hips were two pouches, made
out of home-cured cow-hide. Stupidly,
I thought of slips of paper with police
marks . . a licence to carry ... As if
that mattered, tonight.
“No. Don't know much of ’em.
They’re not loaded, are they? Too
dangerous, I reckon.”
He gave me no warning. The pistols
ceased whirling. They thundered out,
in the closeness of that quiet hut. Over
my shoulder, flakes of soot tumbled
down onto the stove top and 1 smelt
powder and brick-mortar My weak, sick
smile was as nothing to his great laugh.
“Loaded! They’re always loaded. Me
mates are always ready.”
He strode over and emptied the big
pellets onto the deal table. The re-
volvers clattered beside them.
He stepped back just behind my box.
“Ever had one pointin’ at you, but?”
I was right. It was a tiny little thing,
smaller than his giant hand. It nestled
there, snug. But its round bore, moveless
and looking me in the eyes, looked as
good as a taipan hole.
“Saved me life once’t. I wear this 'un
here.” He thrust the vicious steel under
his armpit. “Wear it when I go to town.”
There was nothing for me to say. The
silence started to smother down on both
of us.
The big fellow spread out his great
paws and leaned on the table and said,
confidentially: “What did I say I'd offer
you?”
A quick splurge of anger flung up
in me like a tongue of flame in wet
wood. “I want a fiver or nothin’ for
them—and that’s flat.”
He didn’t draw a gun on me. He said,
softly, “Ain’t got that much here I don’t
think . . . Sometimes I’ve got five-
hundred. Got a cheque here from the
‘Spur’ for two hundred.” He gave
another cackle. “Take that if you like.”
It was odd talk ; it was, moreover,
soothing. I asked: “How much have
you got?”
He shoved himself from the table and
stood back, surveying the cans and tins
of his shelf-larder.
“There was a hundred in the tea-chest,


WORLD-WIDE
REGD.
Table Lamp
TLI2O
light
in every
corner...
Abundant light throughout the
house with the Tilley Table
Lamp. Practical and elegant, en-
tirely safe and self-contained, it
burns for 12 hours on only
pints of ordinary kerosene.
For economical lighting wherever
and whenever it's needed, you can
put your trust in TILLEY.
100% British Made
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores. In case of
difficulty write for name of your nearest Stockist to:—
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY PTY. LTD.
1092 Mt. Alexander Road,
Bseandon, WS. Australia.
but I used that for the trip. Should be
somethin’ in the salt . . .”
He shook the golden-syrup tin, held
an old-fashioned round cake-tin to
his ear, set it down and picked up a
broken-necked vase, and so on, right
throughout his provender. “Dunno
where the money is half the time . . .”
He came back to the table and tipped
out some bundles of screwed-up notes
and tarnished silver alongside the pistols.
“There’s more’n twenty there, I think,”
he said. “I’ll send y’ the rest.”
“It’ll be a matter of a P.N.,” 1 said
stubbornly. “Only a matter of business,
you know.”
“I’ve handled thousands, brother,” he
said. “I’ve put in twelve thousand into
the mine here.”
“Well, I won’t be back. It’s just
business.”
“All right,” he said.
He spread out the notes, counted them
into two bundles of ten and carefully
laid an artillery piece on each. Then
he wrote out the P.N.
The cabin of the old truck never felt
more homely. 1 felt secure enough to
lean out and speak at the bulky shadow.
“Have you got traps set all over the
place?”
He moved back a step.
“Havin’ trouble round here. Plenty
of it.”
I hit the starter and put the truck
into a tight turn. As I straightened for
the road out I heard the high laugh and
then the double report rolling back into
the sombre hills.
ART HAUSLER.
The Blood-suckers
of the curses of the islands off the
North Queensland coast, and perhaps
of the mainland as well, is the March
fly Maybe its proper name is “Marsh,”
for it certainly doesn’t restrict its opera-
tions to any particular month. The things
invade in waves. It has been claimed
that the waves are never more than half
a mile wide. If so, I’ve been unlucky
every time: I’ve always been in that half-
mile. The air is choked with their
blundering bodies ; they’re hungry to the
point of starvation all the time ; they'll
attack without reason, their sword-like
probes stinging fiendishly.
That sting is one of their weaknesses:
the pain of it moves the victim to self-
defence. If the attack were as painless
as that of, say, a cattle-tick, then they’d
drain their victims of blood and do far
more damage than they do. Another of
the fly's weak points is that if disturbed
it almost always returns to the same spot,
thus affording the defender a second shot.
They have a oecuUir odor wl en
crushed: dull, heavy, slightly offensive to
human nostrils. But the scent is most
attractive to the brown ants which hide
in cracks in tropical buildings.
March flies aren’t blood-suckers only,
but no doubt they prefer that diet. (It’s
disgusting to see their semi-transparent
bodies bloated with the pale pink they’ve
sucked from the veins of a living
creature.) If animals aren’t on the menu
they seem to do well enough on tree sap.
I distinctly remember one visit I paid
to West Molle Island, afterwards re-
named “Day Dream.” There was no
water on it, no animal life except, per-
haps, an odd goanna and some Doctor
Waugh pigeons. But there was a plague
of flies. As usual, I was midway along
their half-mile front. I saw them in
thousands on trees and other vegeta-
tion ; they had their probes sunk to the
limit; their bodies were slight green
from the sap they sucked.
But, though March flies are hell while
they last, their visitations are compara-
tively short. About three weeks is the
limit. And when they’ve gone and you
can move in comfort again you quickly
forget them—until the next time.
HENRY G. LAMOND
That Was the Country
Rice grass grows from sft to Bft high
like luxurious oats in the swamps of the
Gulf of Carpentaria. It would make ex-
cellent ensilage, besides keeping sweet if
stacked with layers of salt. But the best
wild rice to be seen in the Territory
grows at Newcastle Waters and there-
abouts. The grain is small, and is made
into cakes by the abos. The gins collect
it, crush it between stones, damp and
bake it. They say goannas and rice cake
No. 1 pfeller tucker. Horses prove that
rice is all that by getting rolling fat on
it when it is in ear, and no horses can
beat the Newcastle brand for stamina
and staying power. Up there will some-
day be the rice field of Australia.
— “Bulletin”, July 20, 1916.
Utter stagnation exists in nearly every
town west of Wellington, N.S.W., but the
deadest town I have yet struck is Warren.
Yet 12 years ago, when borrowed money
was flowing in, and the wool-growing
business, not having met with a real
drought, had not found its real level,
Warren was the most prosperous town of
its size in the State. It w r as then fre-
quented by the squattocracy of the big-
gest wool-growing district of the west, and
merrily went on the knocking-down of
cheques at the local pubs. Today the
streets are deserted. The squatters have
mostly sold out or been sold up. The
hotels are practically uninhabited, while
about every second shop and house is
to let.—“ Bulletin”, March 30, 1905.


l
f
Oaken casks of
specially selected
matured whiskies on
their way to the blend-
ing rats where they
are “ married” in the
age old way to produce
the famous Bond 7 blend.
*
bond 7
Whisky
whisky
ueur
ONE OF THE FIVE GREAT WHISKIES OF THE WORLD
92868
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company of
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlement of claims
ALFRED S. WHITE, Esq., Chairman ; E. G. CONEN, Esq., T. K. MAGNEY,
Esq., A. G. PARKER, Esq., DOUGLAS WADLEY, Esq.
H. H. MOULTON, Esq., Managing Director. B. J. LANE, Esq., Manager.
'Phone: BU 7401. (Branches in all States) 16/20 Bridge Street, Sydney.
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write
to the Manager, who will quote you a price fojr the
original.
Feiffer
M uve
W A
M&O
ru
DP
wremb.
I sorrm up rue
&im om ne mo
wrreßG up-m
m O'JEP HIM
who Barrens up
M 6UP, ow him -
mu it) M HtMTIMt
IM OSM6 mtem op
THe m ump me
o)m seeo Bortm? op
QH TH6 GW 0006 R HIM y
whos mo sormo
to me 6oh vuoep
him mo'b Bteu
poueßeo op m m
KID mo's peeo Borneo
op m m fmM dog i
mtfXveß you
f go - mmm
you lock .
a tm mure or
rue om mmm
\b BW MTMMto
UP SOMBODY Bite -
j mm
2mm
Burm
Bwmi
#
ip we could cum
mmeuze au
That 6RCAG6
m could
%!Di 10
rue Mccof


The Red Page
All About Opals
By M. H. ELLIS
The Opal Book. Frank Leechman. Ure
Smith. 455.
Few typically Australian subjects have
had so little written about them as
the opal, which is one of the loveliest
manifestations of Australian geology. It
is only in Australia that it now occurs
in any quantities and in the full flush
of its beauty.
Europe had opals which were traded
to the Greeks and Romans not so very
far B.C. Pliny, who lost his life in the
eruptions of Vesuvius which left us the
ruins of Pompeii in A.D. 79, described
them: “in them you shall behold the
glowing fire of the crimson garnet, the
effulgent purple of the amethyst, the
sea-green of the emerald, all scintillating
together in an unbelievable arrangement
of lights.'’ He declared that “India was
the sole mother of the opal,” and it
seems that though the earliest known
opals of the ancient civilisations came
from the Carpathians, the East, and as
likely as not somewhere in Russia along
the northern trading routes, India was
once the main source of the gem.
Gem it is, or semi-gem, but uncon-
ventional in that it is not crystalline like
everything of equal beauty in the world
of jewellery. It is, unlike most other
lovely things in this world, what it seems:
a bubble, a jelly, part silica, part water,
riddled with innumerable cracks as it
cooled from its original molten state,
each of these tiny fractures acting on
light like a soap film and producing an
exhibition of chromatic glory which
challenges the most vivid rainbow.
Though opal is completely colorless
when pure, it is usually adulterated with
some mineral and thus subject to varia-
tion in its hues and iridescences and in
its crackings which produce a greater
magnificence of color when the fractures
are uniform and very fine.
The opal has its faults. It is soft, easily
scratched. It is porous and will absorb
water or other liquids which is not
good for it. But whether it be the per-
fect fire opal, translucent and of a single
hue, or the peerless Australian black
opal, it has a unique prismatic loveliness
that defies imitation. Indeed, it almost
defies reproduction in color as some of
even the meticulously prepared plates in
Mr Leechman’s book attest.
The Australian opal needed a book
to itself, since it has become the world’s
standard. It is a phenomenon of the
Never Never, of the old lands on the
edge of the Archaic formations running
U P from Andamooka by Lake Torrens,
northward through Coober Pedy and the
N-T., and White Cliffs and Lightning
widge in north-w'estern New South Wales
trough the dry country of Dundoo and
Eromanga on the Cooper in Queensland,
and in lesser quantity and quality right
up to the Gulf. In the days of Mrs
Webber at Kyabra, she lined the station
verandah with opal nuts, and at the pub
of the Eulo Queen stockmen tendered
at the bar opal “blind” which some-
times turned out to be worth a young
fortune.
Mr Leechman has made a good book.
He is a lover not only of opals, but of
opal history and lore and knows most
of the yarns told by the old “death
adders” of the fields who never leave
their quest for the Stone-to-end-all-
Stones so long as they can persuade two
knees to creak at the same time and can
see the white rim of a hole through their
whiskers —the story, for instance, of the
bullock that struck fire from brown
trachyte and revealed the opal nugget.
He has retrieved most of the other
traditional tales of dust, sandy-blight,
blacks and lucky finds that are en-
shrined in the works of now almost for-
gotten Homers of the birth of the opal
period in the Never Never. These range
from the scientific papers of Anderson,
E. C. Andrews, Cooksey, David,
Etheridge, C. F. V. Jackson, Jacquet and
Kenny, Parkin and Pittman and Sgenit
to the more racy yarns of the oldsters,
Wollaston and “Professor” Skertchley
and Nehemiah Bartley.
Almost all the old familiar characters
of tradition on all the fields appear, the
ghosts that haunt New Nobby’s and
Angledool, The Chum and the New
Chum, The Pony Fence, the Phone Line
and The Hawk’s Nest and the Butterfly,
themselves mostly only ghostly white
holes under the shadow of “The Ridge.”
The average quality of the yarns is
probably best pin-pointed by the story
of one of the miners who, like many,
lived on “hope and fat carney”—the
desert goanna which they used to tether
and tie up to fatten for the pot. This
character, steering homeward from his
evening communings with neighbors,
never failed to fall down a gouger’s
pothole on the way until one momentous
night when he landed, instead, on his
own hearth and fell into the ashes of
his dead fire, only to wake at piccanniny
daylight and behold the normal dawn
vision of a square of glittering desert
stars above him:
“Ho,” says he, “down another b y
hole, I suppose,” and proceeds to climb
up the chimney. Unfortunately, when he
got to the top, probably rather sooty,
the usual flat surface [of the landscape]
was nowhere to be found . . . Feeling for
it, he . , . fell down the outside and broke
his leg.
Mr Leechman is an expert in opals
in all their phases, in the techniques of
searching for them, in the protocol of
opal mining and life on the fields, in
the polishing and preparation of the
stones ; and he is equally familiar with
the prose literature and poetry of opals
and the superstitions concerning them.
He serves up all his knowledge with a
useful bibliography, an equally useful
opal miner's glossary, an essay on opal
polishing, some Australian verse about
opals, a list of the opal-bearing localities
in Australia, which are legion, and of
the large and famous opals of the world.
Twelve out of 15 came from Australia-
eight from Lightning Ridge, of which
three came out of Phone Line, including
the glorious Red Admiral, Etheridge and
Murray's butterfly marvel ; two from
Andamooka (S.A.), including the Anda-
mooka Opal, found at Stevens Creek in
1946 by R. Goldsworthy and cutting at
203 carats.
That this magnificent piece was pre-
sented to the Queen when she visited
Australia and nothing happened to her
afterwards should do something to allay
the curse of the opal—the legend that
it is the stone of disaster, fatal to its
owner.
Mr Leechman has a chapter on this
fascinating phase of the subject. The
prejudice is a modern manifestation. It
did not run in classic times: “On
Olympus the opal was the delight of the
Immortals.” Those who believe the
nonsense today might like to ponder the
fact that the owner of the best known
opal shop in Sydney won £60,000 in
lottery prizes beginning with £3500 in
1892, and ending with seven major prizes
up to £12,000, and “dozens” of minor
prizes in the New South Wales State
Lotteries. Anybody who can win even
a minor prize at the odds of the State
Lotteries is indeed in the luck.
On the other hand there is the strange
case of Alfonso XII of Spain. Alfonso,
who died in 1885, gave an opal ring to
his wife on her wedding day. She died.
He took the ring off her finger and gave
it to his sister before the funeral. Before
the end of the week she was dead. He
gave it to his sister-in-law. She died. He
wore it himself, he died. It took the
ingenuity of the Queen Regent to euchre
the sinister bit of jewellery. She sus-
pended it round the neck of the Virgin
of Almudena of Madrid and dared it
to do its worst. It apparently gave up.
But even this does not daunt Mr Leech-
man. “It must be remembered that at this
time cholera was raging throughout
Spain. Over 100,000 people died of it
during the summer and autumn of 1885.”
For confirmation of his view that
opals are lucky, one only has to take a
look at Mr Leechman. A master mariner
who has braved, unscathed, the perils
of the deep, with a knowledge of minerals
that goes back to his boyhood days
among the Cousin Jacks of his native
(and highly superstitious) county of
Cornwall, he is one of the most highly
qualified gemmologists and cutters of
opals in the world and nothing untoward
ever seems to have happened to him.
The prejudice against opals in modern
days probably has a commercial origin,
and wicked men have capitalised one or
two partly spurious incidents in the in-
terest of other gems for which they had
a market.


STORY WRITING
FREELANCE JOURNALISM
WRITING FOR RADIO
VERSE WRITING
If you desire to take up Writing seriously, we
recommend that you study all branches of
Literary Work —the Short Story, the Article,
the Written Sketch, the Paragraph, Radio Plays,
Radio Talks, Scripts of all kinds, Verse, etc*.
Stott’s Courses are thorough and complete. Write
for special Literary Prospectus, giving details of
all Combined and. Single Courses.
Stotts Correspondence College
159 Minders Lane, Melbourne; 149 Castle-
reagh St., Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Bris-
bane; 21 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 254 Murray
St., Berth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT'S: Please send ine, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
...AGE (S.B. 1161)
As Others See Us
They Came to Australia. Edited by Alan
Brissenden and Charles Higham.
Cheshire. 17s. 6d.
Tt is difficult to know exactly what pur
■ pose this anthology is intended to
serve. It is a collection of impressions
of Australia written by 15 visitors to these
shores. It begins with a pirate, William
Dampier, and ends with an editor of the
“Sydney Morning Herald," John Douglas
Pringle.
Perhaps it is intended simply for our
own information and entertainment; but
if that is so it hardly seems necessary to
tell us about the Barrier Reef, the Mel-
bourne Cup, the Shark Arm case and
what Bondi looks like. Perhaps it is
intended for schools: but why?
Perhaps it is meant to encourage or
terrify migrants. These are, indeed, the
most appropriate audiences for it; but
obviously you could make up a much
more authoritative anthology of the same
kind written by Australians who really
know the country ; and if there is a
special merit for newcomers in reading
what other newcomers have thought of
us —it is a useful warning: the point is
conceded—then surely the anthology
needs to be right up-to-date, which this
isn’t, and surely, unless the editors are
trying to attract or repel only English
migrants, there should be some comments
(which would be available) from Ger-
mans, Dutch, Italians, etc. Egon Kisch
will hardly serve for the entire continent
of Europe ; and it would be interesting,
and not irrelevant to the interest of
migrants, to have an American comment
a bit later than Mark Twain.
Perhaps the editors are serious in their
claim that the book consists of “the finest
pieces ever w'ritten about Australia”: but
this is incredible. Surely they mean “the
finest pieces ever written about Australia
by visitors’ . and even this is extravagant.
Kisch’s piece on the Shark Arm case is
merely journalism , so is Alan Ross's on
Bondi, Manly and the indomitable
Gocher ; and so —and very dull at that—
is Mark Twain’s on the Cup. You have
only to re-read “The Innocents Abroad”
to see how slight and prejudiced a travel-
writer Mark Twain was ; as, of course,
you have only to re-read his Mississippi
books to see how great he was when he
was writing on his home territory.
My own favorite visitor to Australia
has always been Charles Darwin when
he dropped in in the Beagle and found
us shamefully “bent on acquiring wealth,”
“rancorously divided into parties on
almost every subject,” “odious” with our
convict servants and “exceedingly mono-
tonous" in our gumtrees —if we are going
to be ticked-off by visitors they might as
well do it wholeheartedly—and anybody
could make up a list of distinguished
visitors to rank at least equal with and
often higher than this lot, as “the finest
[visiting] writers about Australia.”
If Mr Higham and Mr Brissenden are
right in leaving out Robert Louis Steven-
son —I seem to remember him being
pleasant on Sydney Domain, and on the
floods down the south coast —other names
to consider would be Cook, Watkin
Tench, Cyril Pearl's friend Orion Horne,
Alexander Harris, Flinders, Bligh, Banks,
Froude, John White, Archibald Forbes
. . . there is no end to them.
If the fundamental purpose of the book
is to tick us off —and that could well be
the case, despite the praise of our choicer
bits of scenery—l have reservations about
that, too. It always seems rather an odd
thing for a visitor to do . . . and it seems
to be only when an English-speaking
person is visiting another English-speak-
ing country that we go in for these
acidulous comments about manners and
morals. There are millions of illiterate
vulgar, money-grubbing Italians, Indians
an d Chinese but nobody ever bothers to
insult them in this particular way. \y e
Anglo-Saxons claim, it seems, the right
families to tell the most aw'ful home-
truths to each other , and 1 must say it
makes my hackles rise when an English
visitor like Mr Pringle tells us how vulgar
We nearly all are . . . even though every
d . his pained and well-meaning
criticism seems to be true enough. 1 must
add, too, that 1 m getting a bit tired of
the notion that D. H. Lawience was the
, wrdei wb .f ever success fully des-
cnbed our Wl i dflowers: what ab t
Katharine Prieharri in
Catharine Inchard in Coonardoo ?
But, a n owmg f or a fl tbat< tb j s j s sd j[
nuite a nleasant enters
? U te u pleasant and entertaining antho-
logy and { don - t know why , am so busjl
ticking it off? except that Dampier
started it P
p. • • „ , ~ .
•• J* P 1 ' 18 supei on e poor ao-
. ' . n „ y S f. e !7. Ult . was Qum-
jus bervinton real y almost valueless as
and pen ° d
?,! I qm * \
in Tasmania. Sami el Sidney is delightful
on bullockies and cockatoos; R. E. N.
Twonenv rather dull on the morals and
wopeny ratner oun on me moiais and
manners of the young, but lively about
larrikins - Emilv Soldene lieht but nicelv
! • ’ • m, IX t? 10 f i gnt Dut , ly
bouncing in a Cobb and Co. coach ; and
tjf V ou don't already know them bv hear:'
a you aon t aiieaay know tnemby heard
there are Thomas Wood on Derby and
Francis Ratcliffeon flvine-foxes and
fomewhat ominously near the end’ there
are Makofm Muggeddge (who doesn?
maicoim iviuggei iu to e (wno aoesn i
Beem to have heard of America) calmly
giving us away to Asia, and Arnold
Toynbee, more cheerfully, giving us away
to the termites until he reflects that the
termites, too, would probably be obliter-
ated in an atomic war. It all, as they
say. gives one furiously to think: and
my own final thought on it is that we
should, if possible, keep the place,
DOUGLAS STEWART
Donald Stuart’s Drovers
The Driven. Donald Stuart. Michael
Joseph. Georgian House. 18s. 9d.
“'T'he drover's life has pleasures, he
thought half sourly.” But, what-
ever the hero of “The Driven" thought, it
is Mr Stuart's purpose in this his second
novel to sing the praises of the drover's
life. The sour features he records—
tension, exhaustion, isolation —are there
only to make the pleasures more sweet.
Despite the suggestion that his charac-
ters are as driven as the herd (“They
were all part of a life he knew, they were
as he was, slaves to a mob of cattle . . .”),
Mr Stuart's book is little more than a
description of the long overlanding of
bullocks. As a detailed account of a
particular job, it is admirably done —
full of interesting information about
stock and their ways, the queer and the
tenderfoot cattle, the panic that simmers
in herds.
What plot there is concerns the drovers
and their ways, the tensions their in-
dividualities might create and their effect
on the job. The journey-job begins and
ends ; the young hero resents his stoical
boss and ends admiring and affectionate;
the black stockmen accept the “young-
feller" hero because he is efficient and
does not talk ; he in his turn, realises how
the white man has exploited black
“ability" and “ignorance” and glimpses
something of the “blackfeller" feeling
that “this country knows me prop'ly."
In relation to the job and to one an-
other on the job, the five characters—
white and black —are completely credible.
Even their reminiscences of their past
lives are convincing, despite the author’s
wilful vagueness about time and place.
The hero, for instance, at 26 can remem-
ber “and when the Depression came I
saw it through"; this Depression and
some remembrance of the first world war
are the only externals that clock the book
at all.
But Mr Stuart is not content to con-
centrate on a journey seen in isolation.
Although his theme is “just friendliness,
just . . . ” —the fact that such a journey
depends on mutual appraisal and mutual
respect and can create a trusting and en-
during relationship between men—M r


Stuart attempts to extend it. He allows
his characters to brood, muse, think of
the relationship between man and coun-
try, on aborigines as humans, on the
folly of violence and so on. These
passages fail, not because their conclu-
sions are fashionable but because neither
world nor character is defined clearly in
relation to the reader’s world. Besides,
they are unnecessary ; the reader has
been shown man and country, aborigines
as humans and the folly of violence in
action as he followed the journey. Mr
Stuart could perhaps have trusted readers
to make their own extensions.
His book's real quality is its feel of
distance and the conviction that it gives
about the desirability of mateship. This
is the only justification for its length.
Its other qualities—factual accounts of
work and weather, land and living out-
back can be found more economically
in Mr Stuart’s short stories. This book
is Lawson without the art that enabled
him to universalise ; it is perhaps the kind
of interesting failure which is inevitable
when a Lawson-mind is faced with the
length and the breadth that a novel still
seems to demand.
Why then are the English publishers so
enthusiastic about it (and I know from
conversation that they are)? It must
be the novelty, in England, of the out-
back and its attitudes. It is just possible
that the Australian outback man will have
his day in England as a new Noble Savage
at one with job and land, untroubled by
sex, avoiding thought, instinctively decent,
a man among men.
RAY MATHEW
Subsidies for India
India and the West. Barbara Ward.
Hamish Hamilton. 225. 6d.
Barbara Ward has written an intelli-
gent woman's guide to under-develop-
ment, taking India as a case history.
Much of the book is a background
commentary, serving a purpose to which
a great deal of writing is nowadays
directed, viz., the adjustment of attitudes.
We are given indications of what the
balanced modern attitude of the informed
person of goodwill should be to a range
of questions—with a selection of data
to help us feel that facts are being faced
and evidence is at hand. In other words,
this is a publicist’s book, an eloquent
summary if you like the message, super-
ficial and tendentious if you don’t.
The main argument is that since India
is a democracy, capital accumulation
cannot be sufficiently achieved from
internal sources. A democracy will not
accept the rigors of saving that would
be necessary. Therefore foreign aid must
fill the gap: what is needed is a com-
plete "Marshall” approach. This will
enable India to achieve a steady upward
growth which will avert the dangers of
chaos and revolution. The West can
ignore India's need only at its own peril.
This makes a fair amount of sense.
But there are a couple of points where
the line becomes a little too glib.
In the first place, Barbara Ward in-
vents an entirely fictitious law of history
which synchronises democracy with
advance in national income She says:
“So long as there is a forward movement,
so long as income does increase and
there is each year a little more with
which to reward this group or buy off
that, the democratic concensus [sic} can
Work . ” Here is economic deter-
minism with a simplicity beyond Marx:
the complex sociological and political
factors are reduced to nothing. The case
for aid does not need this simplistic
thinking, which encourages dangerous
illusions.
In the second place, the book must
have been written in Be Kind to
Socialists Week. Even on Barbara Ward’s
showing nationalism and socialism have
combined to introduce a considerable
irrationality into Indian policy. She
admits that the “public sector” is badly
administered and its performance capa-
bility overestimated. She admits that the
“private sector” is starved and harassed
and hemmed in, and its performance
capability underestimated.
But doesn't this mean that for ideologi-
cal reasons the economy is mismanaged
so as to repel rather than attract the
inflow of voluntary foreign capital? And
doesn't this mean that more and more
Western government money has to be
sought to fill the gap? And since the
Western government money goes mainly
into the overblown public sector, doesn’t
this mean that by a “mixture of begging,
threats and blackmail” (as Ropke calls it)
Western governments are compelled to
subsidise, without criticism or limit, the
ideologically-induced mistakes which re-
tard economic development?
The biggest test of President Kennedy’s
statesmanship may be that, while helping
India more massively, he must also find
a way of coaxing its government into
a greater degree of economic rationality.
JAMES McAULEY
Snapshots of Japan
A Curse of Blossom. Quentin Crewe.
Weidenfeld and Nicolson. 265.
Quentin Crewe has been to Eton and
Trinity College, Cambridge, and is
a journalist by occupation. More to the
point he has read Ruth Benedict’s study
of Japan “The Chrysanthemum and the
Sword.” Yet ten minutes spent in the
travel section of his local library would
have revealed that what he takes to be
attitudes peculiar to Japan are often in
fact shared by others and that it is
misleading to write: “If one sat down
next to somebody at dinner, there was
never that instantaneous meeting which
can come to you in any other part of
the world. It seemed that the whole
nation was determined to preserve its
privacy.” A little priming, too, from
Enright, Sitwell or Maraini, to drop a
few recent names, would have corrected
his innocent’s vision of the Orient: “I
saw towns which shone with paper
lanterns, streets which tinkled with small
dangling bells, and at corners I imagined
quiet, sapient old men brimful of the
secrets of life, answering one’s questions
with oracular wisdom.”
It is perhaps not surprising that after
a year in Japan and knowing nothing
apparently about the language he found
he was not getting through to the locals.
“The gap,” he writes, “was too broad to
be bridged fundamentally.” What he
saw made him, for all its virtues,
irritable and impatient and as the title
of the book suggests he saw in tradition
a powerful brake on necessary social
change. “The Japanese still build their
houses in precisely the same style tney
have been built for centuries . . . The
businessmen are still weighed down with
the obligations of the old system of
courtesy.” He concedes that “much is
touching, much is beautiful, nearly all
decorous” but goes on to pose the ques-
tion, why alter it, why force a change?
The answer he says darkly “lies in the
twelve million people who live below
subsistence level.”
It would be interesting to hear from
him just what is being done about the
problems of housing and public health,
if this is his test of government, but
before making any advance here we are
turned back by a flak of cliches worthy
of any Embassy handout:
Plainly a love of tradition cannot alone
be blamed for the misfortunes of Japan.
More important by far is the fearful
problem of over-population. In spite of
amazing strides in birth-control the popu-
lation of the country is still rising at the
rate of one million every year. The land
can yield little more. Industry is Japan’s
only chance of competing in a modern
world. Here, too, the advances have been
remarkable. So remarkable that she has
left all other Asian countries far behind.
Much of Crewe’s commentary is cut
to this very ordinary level. Arthur
Koestler, his travelling companion for
part of the journey, appears as a very
dull fellow. Yet the account has some
good things about it. Crewe moved
freely about the countryside meeting up
with a wide range of types —students,
politicians, Hiroshima victims and geisha
girls—and these are portrayed with some
discernment. On general issues, too, he
can make a crisp summing up. He notes
for example that the lives of both rich
and poor are in quality the same:
The rich man will avoid all show of his
riches and the poor one will strive to
conceal his poverty. There is, in sum, a
cult of uniformity, a singleness of attitude
which creates a common meeting-ground
for all men, an at-first-glance classless
society. There is, too, a drab, suffocating
lack of individuality and in the outsider, a
fierce longing for a glimmer of expression.
On other topics, the Japanese attitude
to suicide, loyalty, children and to homo-
sexuality, to mention a couple that come
to mind, his touch seems to be good. All
in all it is an uneven account, but simply
as a travel book it has a modest claim
to attention.
DOUGLAS TERRY


Waste Not Want Not
The Waste Makers. Vance Packard.
Longmans. 21s.
A s the dust-jacket says “This is a
fascinating and frightening book.”
“Fascinating” because one wonders how
long Mr Packard can go on beating his
national breast: he did it with his other
two books and he remains true to form ;
“frightening” because of the ardor with
which he goes about seeking to devour
whatever fact crosses his path.
“India, for example, possesses very
little in the way of fossil fuels. It obtains
most of its inanimate energy by the burn-
ing of dung! ” Or, in a chapter with the
interesting title of “Respecting the Eternal
Balance,” he says: “Curbing a people’s
procreation habits admittedly is an enor-
mously complex matter. Joseph Wood
Krutch offers the opinion that the impulse
to multiply as rapidly and as profusely
as possible is built into the living
organism.” This is reassuring news from
Mr Packard and Mr Krutch.
There are plenty of such facts: a book
full. His theme is obsolescence and work.
Manufacturers are deliberately making
consumer goods which have only a brief
life. In case you don’t understand, the
point of this unoriginal idea is to force
us into buying more goods so the manu-
facturers can make more money so they
can become richer. Then they can make
more goods so we have to buy more
goods . . .
When Mr Packard entices us on to this
hurdy-gurdy he keeps playing his boring
tune until we are so giddy with dullness
that we are unable to think. Once he
gives us his picture of society, at great
length, he presents us with a neatly
packaged solution: we have got to
become better chaps . . . “most of us
might feel better [sic] about our lives if
we gave a higher priority to striving for:
Greater humility and idealism. At least
occasional dedication to the problems of
people beyond the walls of our home.
Deeply cherished personal goals. A
judicious attitude towards the values
receivable from personal possessions.
Strongly-held personal standards on what
constitutes success and failure for our-
selves.”
It is peripheral sociology, badly pre-
sented, mostly derivative, badly written,
and unbelievably dull.
PETER KELLY
Reviving Whitman
Leaves of Grass. Walt Whitman. The
original (1855), edition, edited, with an
introduction, by Malcolm Cowley.
Seeker and Warburg. 255.
HThis beautiful printing of the 120 pages
A of verse which Whitman expanded
and altered throughout his life to some
450 pages is presented as it first appeared,
except that Cowley has added in brackets
titles to the 12 sections, untitled in the
first edition, and section numbers within
the titles. This results in the big 1336-
line “Song of Myself,” and 11 subsidiary
songs, as against some 400 titles in the
last, the “Deathbed,” edition.
Cowley’s introduction says that Whit-
man wrote these pieces after a mystical
experience ; that in them he created in
a year or so what it took the Indian sages
centuries ; that he is more pure here than
in his later work ; that although he speaks
now and then as though he were God he
does not capitalise it here as he did later;
that his construction, section by section,
has form, as music has form, and is not
haphazard ; and that, besides being better
as it is than broken up in Whitman’s own
later editing, it is better for having a few
things Whitman excised when he became
more respectable.
There is unexpected humor, for in-
stance, in the line excised from what
Cowley calls his Beatnik period:
Washes and razors for foofoos .... for
At the Bottom of
the Garden
The spider haunts my lemon gum
Central on her web’s broad star,
Tries each line with wary thumb,
Wrapped in leaf like a cigar.
Imported shrubs and trees discuss
The morning topic, leaf by stem.
She chooses the indigenous
Sweet-flavored gum, from which to
hem
A small design, perilled with dew,
Raddled by wind, yet strung so right
It will not wear entirely through
Before the spun spins back to night.
A garden seat in green and bird
Ordains the lowest thread’s impact.
Imperishable laws are heard
To echo in this lovely fact.
And echoing in the morning pause
The spider’s twiching meal is stripped
Alive indeed to garden laws:
Beneath the haunted eucalypt.
PHILIP ARMSTRONG
Wallabies
Though through the briefest pause of
rain
we saw them lift in mild concern,
we never met their eyes again.
They changed to mist without return.
But here, in twenty paces down,
the warmth they left still met our hand.
A cudweed slowly swung its crown.
Their warmth was fading from the
land.
And every place now seemed the same,
as if no eyes had ever been—
or every place through which we came
was left by eyes we had not seen.
A long and stone-strewn silence now,
and then the veiling of the rain.
A cold wind rising sways the bough.
The bright drops go to earth again.
NOEL MACAINSH
Our Crypto'Wowsers
[From a series of contemporary satires.]
No wowsers they, who drink and
smoke
With decent wives who do not mind ;
They know the latest dirty joke,
For progress never leaves them behind.
In fact, they are the ones who lead it,
Through Apex and the J.C.C. —
Public spirit for those who need it,
The ideals and smiles of Rotary,
Mateship worn on the lapel
Where every Joseph is a Joe,
And nothing is too dear to sell
And no one is too proud to know.
At night behind the sand-blasted doors
The sexes take their guided tour,
After the little woman pours
Creme de menthe and parfait amour
In stem-ware amongst soft furnishings;
A birch-tree keeps the wrought-iron
cool
And a wagtail by the Holden sings
To a concrete flamingo in the pool.
The house is vacuumed every day
Which goes to prove that cleanliness,
For living the most boring way,
Is certainly next to godliness.
The good men leave no lawn un-
trimmed ;
There is no plot but they have
fenced it;
And like the wowsers they have
hymned:
“There ought to be a law against it.”
Fat boys whom middle age makes
lean,
They aim to keep their children
chaste,
Forgetting how, by seventeen,
Their hand had slipped below the
waist
And many a month was filled with
fear.
Those of their contemporaries
Who have not “settled down” are
queer,
Not queer like homosexual fairies
But even worse, the queer that means
“Most peculiar,” “odd,” hell-bent
Like bodgies on motor-bikes in jeans,
Fit for corporal punishment.
They pray their children may emerge
Not brilliant, but ordinary,
Not grow a beard, or get an urge
To study biochemistry.
They may meet New Australians, but
Never ask an Italian home ;
Our broken bottles never cut,
Not like the knives they use in Rome.
Support by all means leagues and
clubs
And flock to lecturers who give
Our egos little pats and rubs
And praise the way of life we live.
With luck within a hundred years
Australia will have abolished crime
And surnames, dirty books and queers,
Dry wine, old buildings, art and
rhyme
(Except for commercials on TV),
And all across the great outback,
Made safe for kiddies, there will be
A barbecue for every shack ;
On greens where now the desert
sprawls
Golfers will knock their little balls,
While God, in the Safety Council’s
Chair,
Smiles down upon Australia Fair.
GEOFFREY DUTTON


BOOKHUNTER
l)ept. - ‘I)” Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
HEADLINES ALL MY LIFE
Arthur Christiansen
His 25 years as editor of the “Daily Express/ 5
A frank, hard-hitting story of one of
Fleet Street’s greatest editors.
31A
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON - MELBOURNE - SYDNEY - AUCKLAND
AUSTRALIAN
POCKET BOOKS
AN EXCITING NEW SERIES
PAPERBACKS BY AUSTRALIAN WRITERS
LAND OF MIRAGE, by George Farwell.
Men, cattle and camels on the Birdsville .
Track 4/9
A SEA WITH MANY ISLANDS, by M.
Page. The uninhibited life of an Australian .
ship’s Sparks on the S.-E. Asia Coast 4/9
THE MAN HAMILTON, by Vance Palmer.
Human conflict on a Queensland cattle station 4/9
BUMPING INTO FRIENDS, by Alan Marshall. Marshall finds
fun in everything from feeding dogs to drawing moustaches on /Q
pictures of ladies 4/9
AVAILABLE FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS
PUBLISHED BY RIGBY LIMITED, ADELAIDE
• SYDNEY 9 MELBOURNE 9 BRISBANE
FOR All TRAVEL INFORMATIOH,
ACCOMMODATION AND RAIL,
ROAD, SEA OR AIR BOOKINGS!
JUST „ '•
CALI OK
1 WRITE*
VIC louM
THE VICTORIAN GOVERNMENT TOURIST
BUREAU IS AT YOUR SERVICE
272 Collins Street, Melbourne. 63 0202. Civic Centre, Deakin Ave.,
Mildura. Charing Cross, Bendigo. Bright’s Building, Moorabool St.,
Geelong. 34 Lydiard St. Nth., Ballaarat. 18 King William St.,
Adelaide. 28 Martin Place, Sydney. International Terminal,
Essendon Airport.
me freckles and a bristling beard.
Nor was an adjective like “slappy” good
enough for the later Whitman:
Where the laughing-gull scoots by the
slappy shore and laughs her near-
human laugh
becomes:
Where the laughing-gull scoots by the
shore, where she laughs, etc.
For the rest of the significant changes
one commends the reader to Mr Cowley’s
detailed analysis. For the present re-
viewer, whose Whitman scholarship was
restricted to a vague appreciation of the
two sad little birds in the Paumanok
sequence, which is not in this book, there
are three main points of interest. The
first is that when attention is concentrated
on the “Song of Myself” you realise what
a fine storyteller Whitman could be, in
the midst of his catalogues. The pre-
sentation of the 412 young men massacred
at Alamo, of the seafight between the
English and American ship, of the Indian
woman who visited his mother, suggest
the directness of Ezra Pound . . .
This leads to the second point: the
degree to which Pound’s style in the
earlier “Cantos” is influenced by Whit-
man ; and, even more surprising, if you
have never thought about it, how much
Eliot’s choruses in “The Rock” and
“Murder in the Cathedral” owe to the
same source:
Binding the seas and developing the moun-
tains,
Dividing the stars into common and
preferred.
Engaged in devising the perfect refrigerator,
Engaged in printing as many books as
possible . . .
That is Eliot, but after reading Whit-
man’s huge catalogues, it seems little
different ; and this brings on the third
point, that for this reason one realises
why one never liked Eliot’s choruses,
good as Whitman may be as a binder
and common source of American poetry,
he must seem to those not in the tradition
a breaker-down of the quality of poetry
itself.
Once when I was asked to define
poetry I produced: “A modulation with
words of a beating line.” Maybe it is
a fault not to be able to see poetry with-
out the beat ; maybe poetry can exist in
metaphor and argumentation apart from
the beat, but to me, however fresh and
freeing his ideas and their “orchestra-
tion,” Whitman’s poetry remains for the
most part the claptrap of the Domain
demagogue and the street spruiker -of
patent medicines.
R. McCUAIG


Shows
Two Striking Art
Shows
Clifton Pugh. Komon Galleries,
Sydney.
Arthur Evan Read. Macquarie
Galleries.
C'ydney really needs some sort of
central organisation—if you could
ever organise the art world! —to space
out its major exhibitions ; for if it is
exciting to have two shows as good as
ART
these at the same time, and
if it makes one realise how
vigorous is contemporary Aus-
tralian art, Clifton Pugh and
Arthur Evan Read are really too much
to take in in the one week, and both
critics and the public are inevitably
tempted to make unnecessary compari-
sons. Sincere artists like these have their
own individual styles ; one is good in
one way and one in another ; and it is
a pity to have to discriminate between
them.
One good thing about both exhibitions
is that these artists are both, as is
natural and sensible, painting their Aus-
tralian environment —Read his tropical
Queensland, Clifton Pugh his Victorian
bush —and both are fresh enough in their
approaches to be called contemporary
and alive without any need for either of
them to go further towards abstraction.
Another most excellent thing is that
when so many artists, whether abstract
or representational, fall into repetition,
both these painters show a marked
development.
Read’s is the most surprising develop-
ment ; a move, oddly enough, in the
direction of Clifton Pugh. Most of his
exhibition consists of his familiar tropical
landscapes—the dark massed hills in the
background ; the vivid, even livid fore-
ground of township lights or the bright
greens of the canefields, perhaps a little
brighter now —but in such pieces as
“Theme from a Northern Swamp” and
“Lizard and Coconut Plants” he has
gone in for a kind of stylised, recon-
structed landscape, using animal forms
for dramatic effect, in a style that has
distinct affinities with Clifton Pugh’s.
His swamp drama with its twisting
snake and queer shapes of flying-foxes
against the crimson of burning canefields
is modestly subtitled “Decoration,” and
maybe that is what it is. But it is a most
striking and unusual decoration ; while
the black lizard with the yellow bands
is a piece of Australiana, as well as of
decorative painting, which anyone with
an eye for such things must enjoy.
Qne of the several kinds of develop-
ment to be seen in Clifton Pugh’s
exhibition is a bit doubtful: the intro-
duction of over - sinister, primitively
painted animal forms (like “The Vixen,”
and the cat in “The Eagle and the Cat”)
after the manner of Arthur Boyd. This
sort of approach is all right for Boyd:
he has done very effective things with it.
But I doubt if it is the right approach
for Clifton Pugh, whose most successful
bird and animal forms, though often
stylised, have always been unfalteringly
firm in observation. And besides, these
lively Melbourne painters will have to
beware of forming a “school.”
But for the rest, his show seems to
me one of the most vital exhibitions to
have been shown in Sydney in the last
20 years. One of his developments is
shown in a set of small “Swamp Bird
Paintings,” simple, charming things of
herons standing around by pale - blue
waters among ragged trees and tussocks,
which have the appeal of Chinese art
without any feeling of imitation, and an
intimate authenticity of observation
which I don’t think 1 have seen in Aus-
tralian landscape painting since Lance
Solomon first began to make his dis-
coveries. If Pugh has done this sort
of work before the slight lyrical
“sketch” that can outlast many a more
pretentious work —we have not seen it in
Sydney.
But then there are also his more
ambitious dramatic studies of birds or
animals or the bush landscape; and,
though he has done this kind of thing
before, the most impressive development
of the present exhibition is simply that
he is now doing it better than ever:
more strongly, more firmly, more har-
moniously, more quietly in the soft
greens and blues that have replaced his
violent reds.
As before, one delights in his pictures
simultaneously for their bold, essentially
abstract patterns and for the close and
poetic observation of nature which fixes
the abstraction firmly in life. It is a
harsh enough world which he shows us —
rocks, fire-blackened trees, hawks and
eagles and wildcats —but there is nothing
morbid about it. It is lit with wild-
flowers, softened with green foliage,
warmed with sunlight; and when it is
cruel and harsh—well, that’s how it is
in the bush.
Douglas Stewart
Sam Fullbrook. Bonython Galleries,
Adelaide.
Sam Fullbrook’s paintings make a dim
but pleasing impression. The artist knows
his subjects—the hills of the Kimberleys,
an aboriginal leaning against a post eating
an orange, another one with a kangaroo
over his shoulder —but the impact of those
subjects is never quite strong enough.
This is owing to uncertainties of tech-
nique, which on some occasions is experi-
mental and on others traditional without
sufficient firmness to carry off what the
artist is trying to do.
Nevertheless, the small paintings are
delightful, indicating that Fullbrook is in
the odd situation of being a miniaturist
in the wide open spaces. “Picnic” and
“Bough Shed” are such delicate little
sketches, with such sensitivity of color
that emptiness becomes a logical back-
ground. However in larger paintings
such as the ambitious portrait of a native,
the empty spaces begin to matter ; they
are filled in with a paste of paint, when
in fact they should open out into genuine
and alarming emptiness.
Geoffrey Dutton
Murray Griffin. Moreton Galleries,
Brisbane.
In a medium intrinsically rather coarse,
such as the lino-cut, a degree of finesse
of line and pattern such as one obtains
in a wood engraving is not to be
expected, but Griffin gets as near as 1
think possible. The lines and details of
foliage and plumage in the 22 lino-cuts
showing here are surprisingly delicate,
and the fine gradation of color is expert.
The subjects are mainly birds carefully
drawn and characteristically posed and
the colors lavish, warm and harmonious;
and some unusual, such as a delightful
dilute burgundy. I particularly liked the
versions of a “Bird of Paradise,” “Blue
Parrots” and “Mitchell Cockatoos,” and
there is a wily old bird of a “Seagull”
with the usual sly, cunning look in his
eye, no doubt waiting to hijack some
junior gull’s fish. A stylised print of a
breaking wave is unusual and attractive.
J. V. Duhig
Studio and Pre-Industrial Pottery. East
Sydney Technical College.
The Potters Society of N.S.W. and
the National Art School have combined
to organise this fascinating exhibition
which traces the development of the craft
from its primitive beginnings up to the
advent of industrialisation and shows the
rebirth of values among the studio potters
today. The long road is seldom dull and
although there are some gaps in it, par-
ticularly in the early European section,
it is studded with gems.
In the Oriental Section, in a fine collec-
tion from the Sung Dynasty, I particularly
liked a Ting Chou jar with fine bold
calligraphic decoration and a simple dish
of pure shape with a translucent blue
glaze to complete its harmony.
The expression of national characteris-
tics can be seen most notably in the con-
trast between a bold Spanish bowl of
strong Mediterranean colors and some
skilful tracery in traditional English
slipware. From Peru there is a portrait
pot and another symbolising a fish-
predecessors of more sophisticated but
less significant imitations.
Along with industrialisation came the
revolt against it, but though one bowl
shown here of William de Morgan, a con-
temporary of William Morris, has simple
beauty, the other illustrates a common
failing of his time, over-decoration.


Of the modern potters those who con-
fine themselves to achieving quality within
the delicate limitations of their craft are
the most successful. The English potter
Bernard Leach has produced usable
pottery articles of a firm distinction which,
though it may not fascinate so easily, has
more endurance than the facility shown
jn the many interesting essays in form
of some other European exhibitors. The
slick simplicity of the Swedish exhibits
is happy in this company largely because
of their economy, but Picasso’s pottery
decoration, however competent, looks
frivolous and absurd.
Shoji Hamada, who, like Bernard Leach
in England, has in Japan reorganised
some of the pottery villages, dominates
the modern Oriental section ; a press
molded dish of his, an essay of square
shapes in brown and green glazes, is a
superb piece of abstract art made mean-
ingful through its function and means of
production.
In this international galaxy one might
expect the local stars to be dimmed but
this is not so. I enjoyed a small jar
of Sue Miles with its simple shape and
three levels of textured surfaces, the gay
pots of Rachel Roxburgh and a grey
tureen of Peter Rushforth. The English
John Chappel, who has for many years
been working in Japan, joins with a strong
New Zealand contingent and his No. 407,
a finely-shaped grey pot with wax-like
glaze, is notable. Pieces by Patricia and
Ivan Englund and Ivan McMeekin press
with many others for mention in an ex-
hibition which is a must for anyone
interested in pottery.
SALMON
Heart-shock
“The Apartment.” Century, Sydney.
Comedy shifts smoothly to drama in
this story about the terrible heart-shock
that awaits an amiable young insurance
clerk who climbs to top-executive rank
| FILMS-j
by allowing his philandering
bosses to use his bachelor
apartment as a love-nest
B u t, skilful as director
Billy Wilder’s handling of the laughs-to-
tears transition is, one only needs to think
of the all-comedy that the French might
have made of it, or of the all-drama that
the English might have made of it, to
realise this film loses some force by its
compromise. But, at that, it is never less
than deft and diverting, and it is distin-
guisned by some most expert balancing
of fun and tenderness by Jack Lemmon
in the role of the bachelor clerk who
finds that the liftgirl he loves is among
his popular apartment’s philanderees.
Lemmon’s wincing, wondering and
writhing as he capers through his task
of manipulating the apartment bookings
to suit everybody, except perhaps him-
self, add up to uproarious fun at times.
His gift for real pathos is matched un-
commonly well by comedienne Shirley
Maclaine as the liftgirl he regards as “the
tops —I mean, decencywise and otherwise-
wise.”
LINDSEY BROWNE
Verdi as Pace-maker
Tt’s probably a matter of personal
-*• character and of individual reaction
to success which permits some com-
posers to get better and better as they
grow old and others to fade after a burst
of youthful glory
The week's concerts in Sydney a
programme by the Allegri Quartet, and
MUSIC
two programmes by the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra
—offered some opportunity
to ponder this, with their
accent on Verdi, Strauss, Walton and
Britten.
Verdi, arguably the most admirable
human being who ever wrote significant
music, a man of such wisdom and charac-
ter that he could not fail to gain artistic
stature with every new work, was repre-
sented both by his string quartet (a
somewhat buzzily Beethovenised per-
formance by the Allegris) and by a group
of sombre opera arias from Finnish
bass-baritone, Kim Borg, who, making
his first appearance here, displayed a
magnificently cavernous vocal instrument
but a dramatic sense which did not per-
mit him to project Verdian griefs and
torments at anything but a comfortable
spiritual level. (Borg was much more
persuasive, as an actor right inside a
character, when he sang two Boris
Godounov scenes later in the week.)
Strauss, whose talent became becalmed
after the spectacular tone-poems and
operas of his earlier years and seldom
found full sail again (“Metamorphosen”
excepted), was represented by a curiously
heavy-handed and, at times, vulgar
orchestral suite derived from some harp-
sichord pieces by Couperin. It had no
more identity with the spirit of Couperin
than any big emporium’s glittering


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKSON &
,O'SCI.UVAN
PTYLTD
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
start the day right!
ri
H
m
Oi
oUo^°
VII4O
CB6Mi
AUTHORS
invited submit MSS all types
(including Poems) for book
publication. Reasonable
terms. Stockwell Ltd., Ilfra-
combe, England. (Estd. 1898).
Christmas show-windows have with the
spirit of Christmas —but even the element
of big Straussian showmanship was some-
what stifled by the Sydney Orchestra’s
sluggish playing.
Walton, the Englishman who graduated
to sterner things (including an uncom-
monly restless and powerful first sym-
phony) after finding fame as a mordant
musical satirist, gave clear indications of
decline in his second symphony, per-
formed here for the first time in Aus-
tralia. An opening movement which is
often quite gorgeous in tone fabric
but vacant of substance, a slow move-
ment of some depth, and a cerebrating
passacaglia finale all pointed to a com-
poser in whom fastidiousness and self-
criticism are so strong that it is all he
can do to get anything past them on to
paper at all. The struggle to be attractive,
original and convincing is so con-
spicuous all through that spontaneity has
no chance. The performance was an
eloquent one.
Britten, who also burst as a young man
into the world’s important music-making,
was represented by his Sinfonia da
Requiem of some 20 years ago — an
astonishingly moving projection of deep
grief, of bedevilled horror, and again of
a near-religious sorrow. But, great as is
this work of a young man, Britten has
since been able to fight himself free of
the influences of Mahler and to assimi-
late them rather more completely than
he does in this Sinfonia—another highly
persuasive performance by Sir Bernard
Heinze and the orchestra. Britten still
grows as an artist.
LINDSEY BROWNE
Creepy-crawlies
“Swamp Creatures.” Adelaide Uni-
versity Theatre Guild.
How Alan Seymour must wish that his
“Swamp Creatures” could be given a
decent burial and quietly forgotten! But
instead it keeps cropping up in the all-
THEATRE
States amateur theatrical
circuit: even the A.B.C.
keeps on televising and
broadcasting this un-
happy piece of juvenilia. To protect his
growing reputation as a serious play-
wright he would be wise to withdraw all
performing rights.
The Theatre Guild gave the play a
proper testing by mounting it elaborately
on the giant Union stage, placing the pro-
duction in the hands of Jean Marshall
(who directed the first performance of
“One Day of the Year”) and giving it a
strong experienced cast.
The addition of collywobble sound
effects of the musique concrete variety,
a vast interior set dripping with dried-up
billabong scum and an enormous
Ostoja-Kotkowska abstract adorning the
crumbling Victorian walls of the manor,
did less than nothing to help matters.
With mum strangling chooks and Auntie
Connie breeding creepy-crawlies out in
that Wilcannia billabong, the total effect
still suggests bad Boris Karloff rather
than good Faulkner.
The production values were sound but
stagey: the characterisations were
energetically attacked but feebly realised.
MAX HARRIS
Elizabeth Durack and the Aborigines
TJeople talk about Elizabeth Durack
A as a painter obsessed by the
spectacle of aboriginal life, an artist
moved to express the tragedy of an
outcast race, almost a socially-
conscious missioner. But her most
recent work, to be given a one-man
show in Melbourne this month (the
first in that city for ten years), reveals
clearly enough a more subtle and
personal passion. “The aborigines are
part of the land,” she said, showing
me “The Spinifex Plain” where
ambiguous figures move towards
infinity across a waste of pale-red soil
and yellow grass. “That’s how I see
them.” She is trying to define the
essence of a land barely disturbed by
dissolving trees, disintegrating mines
or transient figures.
Now in her mid-forties, Elizabeth
Durack —blonde with hazel eyes, soft-
voiced, noticeable by distinction of
personality rather than by demeanor
or dress —lives in a self-designed house
in Nedlands, W.A. There she paints,
exhibits, housekeeps for an under-
graduate daughter and son, and, in a
long room filled with paintings, books,
and piquant bibelots, or outside under
a vine-coVered trellis, talks to friends
and buyers.
Visitors from overseas are con-
stant ; a large number of pictures have
gone abroad, while many hundreds of
hand-tinted prints of the originals have
been sold throughout Australia. She
flies off herself, whenever possible, to
the North, or tracks out by train or
some other vehicle to the goldfields or
the Nullarbor. Outside the ranks of
surveyors and engineers there can be
few Australians better acquainted with
the face of the continent.
She lived as a small child on one
of the family cattle-stations in Kimber-
ley, but it was not until she left her
Perth convent at 16, going north to
join her elder sister Mary, that she
consciously registered the color and
form of the outback.
The recent pictures seem to me both
an epitome and a point of departure.
In the delicate “Inland Sea,” set near
Laverton, it’s impossible to be sure
whether the scene is earth or water,
whether one sees a host of people
rising from primordial waves, or being
washed away by the desolation of a
civilisation that has driven humanity
into the wilderness of no-place. But
in “Hard Core” one is conscious of
driving into the earth itself, into a
tunnel (or can it be disintegrating
vertebrae?), grey, mauve, black, skele-
tal, a reminder of the frailty of all
organic matter in a country where
rocks are a million years old.
H. DRAKE-BROCKMAN


LET
CARRY TftE
BURDEN
-i
m
8m
23
Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
N.S.W. Branch:
Kimlersley House,
Htigrh O’Connell Sts., Sydney
Business, Robbery, Etc.
WHITE PAPER FORECAST
Cautious Progress and Price Stability
The Federal Government’s
sleekly worded sixth White
Paper on the Australian
economy is generally reassur-
ing. The main emphasis in put
on achieving long-term price
stability as the essential con-
dition for rapid and balanced
economic growth. Increased
export earnings are forecast.
The reserves with which Aus-
tralia will begin 1961-62 are
said to be adequate. And a
reduction in the rate of the
inflow of imports is confidently
I expected.
Finally, the Government
feels, or rather hopes, that
'‘there are indeed some signs
that the long decline in the
general level of commodity
prices may have ended and
that an improvement is in
sight.” But lest anybody
(should become too enthusiastic
[about this improvement in the
commodity prices, the White
Paper immediately adds a
solemn warning that “each
commodity market is affected
by special factors, so that, even
if there were a general rise,
some prices might well con-
tinue to decline against the
general trend.”
A long section is devoted to
the review of the events of
1960 and to the gathering
impetus of the boom and
the Government’s early restric-
tive measures, undertaken be-
fore the desperate deflationary
assault in mid-November last.
The Paper’s treatment of the
1 causes of the boom is
inadequate. We are told that
“it would be less than truth to
assert that the boom began
with the wage margins increases
°f late 1959 and early 1960.
There would almost certainly
have been a boom of some
magnitude without them.
What the margins increases did
was to add substantially to de-
mand, then and in the follow-
ing months, by putting addi-
tional spending power into the
’hands of wide sections of the
immunity. This led naturally
to further pressure on costs and
Prices.” AH this is true, but
’hen what gave rise to the
"°om conditions in the first
place?
The unhealthy effect of arti-
hnially dampening bank and
to nd interest rates, and of the
institutional restrictions placed
on the savings banks should not
be underestimated. The Austra-
lian banking system has long
been emasculated and its place
virtually taken by a host of
extra-banking institutions
hire-purchase and finance com-
panies, private lenders on mort-
gages, particularly in real-
estate transactions, etc. —all of
which operate on much higher
interest rates and force upwards
the overall cost structure of the
economy.
Land prices were increasing
rapidly in response to an
almost hysterical demand, with
the speculators often setting
the pace—confident of secur-
ing extra-banking finance at
high interest rates. This was
no concern for dealers relying
on quick turnover and avoid-
ing the actual burdens of heavy
interest charges.
The inflationary symptoms
were particularly dangerous on
the sharemarket. Speculation
pushed stock prices upwards
indiscriminately, often ignor-
ing the intrinsic value of scrip
for the sake of brisk specula-
tive gain. The flow of funds
was largely diverted from the
basic industries to the infla-
tionary consumer goods and
building sectors, though per-
haps in a smaller degree than
in 1959-60.
The White Paper is correct in
saying that “no boom can go
on indefinitely. Even if no
official action is taken to curb
it, forces inherent in the boom
itself can be expected, sooner
or later, to slow it down and
bring it to an end. Mean-
while, however, an unchecked
boom can do great damage.
Costs and prices can be dan-
gerously inflated, overseas
reserves exhausted and the
financial structure put under
great strain. Then, the farther
the boom has been allowed to
go, the more violent the re-
action is likely to be once the
turning point is reached —
possibly leading to widespread
business failures and a great
rise in unemployment.”
'T'he criticism is that, since all
this was well known to the
highly qualified Government
economists, determined restric-
tive action should have com-
menced much earlier. The
Budget deficits of 1958-59 and
1959-60 were a major factor
in producing and accelerating
the boom, and this point is
smartly and gracefully glossed
over.
No serious economist will
dispute the need for Mr Holt’s
boom-breaking, although there
is ample room for disagree-
ment on some of the methods
employed. A few were inept
and many painful. One of the
positive effects of the credit
squeeze was to help force out
of business such companies as
H. and S. Credits and 1.V.M.,
and restrict excessive consumer
credit.
It is also true that output
in the basic industries in the
first quarter of 1961 was gener-
ally at a high level. Pig iron,
ingot steel, tinplate, sulphuric
acid and Portland cement all
showed increases in compari-
son with the corresponding
three months of 1960.
Unemployment has been
limited, never exceeding 2 p.c.
of the work force. A relatively
modest rise in investment may
produce new inflationary pres-
sures. The high migrant intake
makes Australia vulnerable to
booms, but this is one of the
occupational hazards.
'T'he outlook for 1961-62 is
cautiously optimistic, per-
haps slightly less so than the
anonymous authors of the sur-
vey feel.
“A large wool clip for
1961-62 seems assured and . . .
there are grounds for expect-
ing a higher average price than
in the current season.”
Also the grain exports “are
hardly likely to reach the levels
of 1960-61, but they may never-
theless be high. The substan-
tial further sales to Mainland
China recently arranged will
ensure that shipments are
maintained at a high rate in
the early months of 1961-62.”
The Government anticipates
a high rate of capital inflow
from overseas, and this is
feasible. However, its hopes
for improvement in com-
modity prices must be treated
with caution. Some raw
material prices should rise
slightly, mainly due to im-
proved economic conditions in
Europe and Japan. The high
rate of growth maintained by
the Japanese economy is
becoming a major factor in
stimulating demand for Aus-
tralian exports, particularly
wool, primary produce and
coal.
However, a dramatic rever-
sal in the adverse trend of
the terms of trade, which have
been turning steadily against
exporters of primary produce
for many years now, is
unlikely.
'T'he strong emphasis on price
stability may indicate that
the Government intends to
forestall substantial increases
in wages, and is prepared to
restrict demand for consumer-
goods if necessary.
Precious little is said about
the long-run effects of the
Government's policy on the
balanced long-term growth of
the Australian economy. Price
stability by itself will not en-
sure balanced development.


ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED,
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. FF 3931.
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
CUSTOM
CORPORATION
z
CREDIT
LIMITED
Offers to Long or Short Term Investors
REGISTERED FIRST
MORTGAGE DEBENTURES
10 Years and over .... 8%
4 Years to 9 Years . . . 7%
3 Years . 6f%
2 Years 6^%
12 Months* notice .... 5|%
9 Months' notice .... 5£%
6 Months' notice .... 4f %
3 Months' notice .... 3f%
CUMULATIVE STOCK
3 to 20 Years, 6% per annum
New Issue of
CUSTOM CREDIT NOTES
10 Years and over .... 8%
3 to 9 Years 7%
at 12 Months' notice • • 6%
at 6 Months' notice • • • 5%
at 4 Months' notice • • • 4%
at 2 Months' notice . • • 3%
Interest is paid in equal quarterly instalments, free
of exchange, on the last days of June, September,
December and March.
This is not a Prospectus. Copies of the Prospectus
covering these issues have been lodged with thi
Registrar of Companies, Sydney.
Applications must be made on the Forms enclosed
in the Prospectus, which is now available from
ALL MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGE
Every Branch of
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Each of the Branches of
CUSTOM CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
130 New South Head Road, Darling Point, Sydney. Telephone: FM 5861.
■til
CCC3.561
Bound Volumes of the
1960 Editions of
The "Wild Cat" Monthly
{with complete index )
Are Now Available.
Order from
“The Bulletin,” Box 2521,
G.P.0., Sydney
Price £2 15s.
There is urgent need for con-
structive and positive high-
level thinking on this subject.
The Government is obvi-
ously prepared to see some
domestic manufacturers dis-
placed by lower-cost imports.
None of these are in the basic
output field, but some pockets
will be hurt. Canberra’s con-
fidence that the flow of imports
will subside without any
restrictions may seem a bit
optimistic. If the current
drain on the reserves con-
tinues for another six months
some kind of selective imports
control may become necessary.
Summing - up, the White
Paper may be taken to predict
cautious growth, no import
restrictions if the situation
does not really get out of
hand, and reasonable wage
stability. The forecast is opti-
mistic.
It is obviously the intention
to control prices through free
entry of imports and curbs on
domestic purchasing power.
How far price stability will be
achieved in 1961-62 remains to
be seen.
E.B.
SOUTH AMERICA
Exports Need Pushing
The Australian trade survey
mission to South America,
comprising businessmen,
economists and Department of
Trade experts, evoked some
conflicting comments. Reports
from some businessmen who
had served on the mission were
highly enthusiastic, while the
opinions of others sounded less
optimistic.
The facts seem to be that the
market for Australian exports
is there —Latin American coun-
tries are currently importing at
the rate of about £3500 million
a year. However, Australian
goods constitute a negligible
part of this trade and our ex-
ports need energetic and sus-
tained pushing. The present
rate of penetration of the
South American market is
inadequate.
Addressing a meeting of ex-
porters, Mr W. S. Lowe, First
Assistant Secretary of the De-
partment of Trade and its
representative on the recent
trade survey mission, said that
there were good opportunities
“for greatly expanding Aus-
tralian exports to the area.”
But there were many difficul-
ties—particularly the lack of
direct shipping. The Federal
Government has begun talks
with shipping companies with
a view to initiating regular and
frequent shipping services to
the main Latin American ports.
“If necessary, the Govern-
ment is willing to consider
financial assistance to get a
service established.”
Trade Commissioner posts
will be opened in Lima, Peru
and Caracas, Venezuela. A
major publicity drive will be
launched in the northern part
of South America, including
Venezuela, Guiana, Ecuador
and Peru.
The Federal Government
will spend “a substantial sum
of money” on an advertising
campaign throughout the area
and will bring out a regular
Spanish edition of “Austral
News.”
The point to be particularly
stressed is the need for per-
sonal contact between Aus-
tralian exporters and their
prospective clients in Latin
America. Department of Trade
representatives have been doing
an excellent job, but their ser-
vices must of necessity be of
a preliminary and general
nature. Background informa-
tion supplied by the Depart-
ment’s officers is valuable. But
successful deals are generally
clinched by personal salesman-
ship—the method used by Aus-
tralia’s trade rivals.
The fact that intra-continent
trade in Latin America
accounts for only a bit over 10
p.c. of the total imports turn-
over indicates that energetic
trade penetration by Australian
exporters can be successful.
Opportunities generally exist
for raw materials and equip-
ment and not as much for
finished consumer goods. How-
ever, recently Pye Industries
secured a contract to supply
75,000 U.S. dollars’ worth of
TV parts to a South Amercan
electronics manufacturer.


COMPANY REPORT.
NEW BROKEN HILL
CONSOLIDATED LIMITED
The twenty-fifth annual meeting of the Company will be
held at 6 St. James' Square, London, S.W.I, on Tuesday, June
20, 1961. The following extracts are from the statement of
the chairman (Mr. L. B. Robinson), which has been circulated
in advance.
In 1960 the output of ore was
appreciably greater than in 1959,
but was regulated so as to keep
lead output in line with the reduced
level of realisations agreed at the
meetings of the International Lead
and Zinc Study Group, and at the
same time increase appreciably
production and realisations of zinc
concentrate. The average London
Metal Exchange prices during 1960
were £72 2/11 for lead, compared
with £7O 15/7 for 1959, and £B9
5/11 for zinc, compared with
£B2 4/8 for 1959.
The result for the year was a
trading balance of £2,075,534, com-
pared with £1,531,700 for 1959.
Depreciation amounted to
£301,450, compared with £333,140
for the previous year, and the profit
before taxation amounted to
• £1,806,472, compared with
£1,190,847 for 1959.
The provision for Australian and
United Kingdom taxation on the
profits lor the year amounts to
£669,087, compared with £394,609
for 1959.
The result is a net profit of
£1,137,385, compared with £796,238
for 1959. A transfer of £395,000
has been made to mine amortisa-
tion reserve, compared with
£245,000 for 1959.
An interim dividend of 1/- per
share, free of tax, has been paid,
compared with 9d. per share, free
of tax, last year.
The directors are recommending
that a final dividend be paid at the
rate of 2/- per share, free of tax,
compared with 1/6 per share, free
of tax, last year.
This gives a total free of tax
dividend of 3/- per share, compared
with 2/3 per share for 1959.
These results exclude the profit
of the wholly-owned subsidiary
company, N.B.H.C. Pty. Limited,
which holds 40 per cent, of the
equity of Heron’s Creek Timber
Mills Pty. Limited. The profit of
the subsidiary for the year ended
31st December, 1960, amounted to
£25,939, while profits brought for-
ward from previous years amounted
to £26,009.
The subsidiary company agreed
in December, 1960, to acquire at
par 25 per cent, of the share capital
of Sulphide Corporation Pty.
Limited, a company producing
sulphuric acid and fertilisers at
Cockle Creek. New South Wales,
and about to operate a lead/zinc
smelter on the same site.
PRODUCTION.
The threat of over-production
throughout the world continued to
dominate the markets for lead and
zinc during the year under review.
Accordingly the company again had
to budget for a metal output sub-
stantially below the capacity of the
mine. However, with the removal
of restrictions on zinc production
at the Geneva conference of the
International Lead and Zinc Study
Group held in September, 1959, the
10 per cent, reduction in working
time which had operated at all
Broken Hill mines for two years
was lifted in February, 1960.
Operations were carried out on
216 days in the year. Two working
days were lost in May from stop-
work meetings connected with
negotiations for the new Industrial
Agreement. Later, in July and
August, a dispute concerning
improved methods of introductory
training for new employees led to
the loss of eighteen working days.
Output per contract-stoping-
miner-shift (excluding the sub-level
stope on No. 16 Level) was 19.10
tons, compared with 19.35 tons in
1959. Operating efficiency in terms
of tons per mining-department-
employee-shift was 6.39 tons in
1960, compared with 5.75 tons in
1959, no sub-level stoping having
been carried out in 1959.
The details of production are as
follows:—-
Zinc
Tons. Lead per cent. Silver oz. per cent.
Lead Lode .. .. 441,631 11.0 2.9 13.8
Zinc Lode .. .. 176,965 4.9 1.3 12.7
Total. 1960 .. .. 618,596 9.2 2.4 13.5
Total, 1959 .. .. 582,268 12.1 3.2 12.6
The ore milled and concentrates produced in 1960 compared with
1959 as follows:
1960. 1959.
Ore Milled tons .. .. 627,600 584,530
Lead Concentrate Produced tons .. .. 72,006 88,987
Average Grade: Lead per cent 76.9 77.0
Silver ounces .. .. 19.9 20.1
Containing: Recoverable Lead tons .. .. 53,191 65,737
Silver ounces .. .. 1,433,055 1,785,540
Zinc Concentrate Produced tons .. .. 147,731 128,416
Average Grade: Zinc per cent. .. 53.2 52.5
ORE RESERVES
The ore reserves fully outlined and developed ready for stoping or
in the process of being sloped as at 31st December, 1960, were
calculated at:
Zinc
1960. Lons. Lead per cent. Silver oz. per cent.
Lead Lode .. .. 3,200,000 12.9 3.2 12.8
Zinc Lode .. .. 1,200,000 4.8 1.1 13.2
Combined .. .. 4,400,000 10.7 2.7 12.9
1959.
Lead Lode .. .. 3,000,000 13.0 3.4 12.5
Zinc Lode .. .. 1,100,000 4.7 1.2 13.2
Combined .. .. 4,100,000 10 8 2.8 12.7
Development and Diamond
Drilling.
In my statement last year 1
referred to the progress made in
the work of delineating the high-
grade zinc sections of the siliceous
zinc lode between Nos. 12 and 16
levels. These zinc-rich sections of
the mine are the means of provid-
ing flexibility in the production of
zinc concentrate as opposed to lead
concentrate.
During 1960, diamond drilling
was continued on Nos. 14 and 16
levels to outline the general shape
of the ore body. Developments for
extraction were carried out on
No. 15 level. The drive south on
No. 16 level had reached a point
3256 feet south of our northern
boundary at the close of 1960. This
drive has now intersected the
siliceous zinc lode, the upper limit
of which passes below No. 14 level
at approximately 3460 feet south of
our northern boundary. Testing of
this ore body will be continued
during 1961.
Results of exploration to date
indicate that major sections of these
zinc-rich areas will be amenable to
large-scale mining methods.
Shaft Development.
The deepening and equipping with
steel sets of the service shaft for
operation to No. 25 level was com-
pleted during the year and plats
were cut at Nos. 24 and 25 levels.
The shaft now extends to 3733 L feet
below the surface.
Employee and Industrial
Relations.
The industrial situation at
Broken Hill remains satisfactory.
A new triennial agreement, operat-
ing from May 15, 1960, to May 15,
1963, and containing no substantial
alterations to the terms of employ-
ment at Broken Hill, was concluded
with the Barrier Industrial Council
and affiliated mining unions.
It is very pleasing to state that
no fatal accidents occurred on the
leases of New Broken Hill Consoli-
dated or the Zinc Corporation. An
appointment of a full-time medical
officer was made jointly with the
Zinc Corporation in the latter part
of the year and the construction
of a medical centre on the leases
has recently been completed.
Lead and Zinc Markets.
As regards the markets for lead
and zinc, I would once again, as
in former years, repeat the state-
ment I am making to the members
of The Consolidated Zinc Corpora-
tion Limited. (See elsewhere in this
issue.)
Persons who would like a copy
of the full report are invited to
write to the Company at G.P.O.
Box 384 D, Melbourne.


Invest in
The Longest Established National Hire
Purchase Company
k
in which the Bank of N.S.W*
has a 40% shareholding
REGISTERED
NOTES
Application for Registered Notes can be accepted
only on the printed form included in the pros-
pectus obtainable from the Bankers to the issue,
Bank of New Sooth Wales (all Branches),
any A.G.C. Branch, and your Stockbroker.
PAID-UP CAPITAL: £6,875,000
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
142 Phillip Street, Sydney • BW 2673
Branches and offices throughout Australia
SK THE “WALES' FOR DETAIL
MOTOR VEHICLES
Three Million by 1962
TV’ew registrations in 1960
confirmed the trend, evi-
dent since 1955, to a concen-
tration of motor vehicles
ownership in capital city areas
in all States. The highest per-
centage gains in motor vehicles
registrations—some 9 p.c.—
occurred in New South Wales
and Victoria the largest
market outlets for the Aus-
tralian motor industry.
This conclusion is reached
in the “Australian Automotive
Year Book, 1961,” the attrac-
tively printed annual publica-
tion of the Federal Chamber
of Automotive Industries.
The Commonwealth Statis-
tician’s figures show that at
December 30, 1960, a total of
2,862,543 motor vehicles of ail
Finds were registered in Aus-
tralia. With approximately four-
persons to each car or truck,
this country ranks fourth in the
world in the ratio of motor
vehicles to population—after
the United States (two persons
per vehicle) and Canada and
New Zealand (both three per-
sons per vehicle). Registration
figures in New South Wales
account for 64 p.c. of the
national total.
During 1960, 310,172 new
motor vehicles were registered,
representing a rise of 16 p.c.
New registrations of cars in-
creased by 16 p.c. over the
1959 total, station wagons by
24 p.c., trucks by 21 p.c., buses
and other types by 40 p.c.
Registrations of utilities and
panel vans declined by 10 p.c.
and 30 p.c. respectively, mainly
because of the Federal Govern-
ment's reclassification of cer-
tain types of panel vans as
station wagons carrying a
higher rate of sales tax.
Despite the increase in registra-
tions, the truck market re-
mained somewhat depressed
with a lower rate of growth
than in other sectors of the
motor industry. Buses bene-
fited by the switch from trams
made by public transport
authorities in several metropoli-
tan cities.
Estimated scrappage rate in
1960 was about 3.6 p.c. of
total registrations. The lifting
of import restrictions resulted
in the imports of complete
motor vehicles increasing from
5602 to 8499, a very modest
rise. Imports do not as yet
present a serious challenge to
the Australian motor industry.
Exports for 1960 rose from
2676 to 4138.
The “Australian Automotive
Year Book” says that “com-
petition within the industry is
plainly demonstrated by the
fact that prices of new vehicles
have not risen generally in the
last four years, in spite of sig-
nificant increases in wages and
the price of raw materials and
components... .This is not sur-
prising in view of the fact that
there are no fewer than 14
different companies engaged in
motor production in Australia.
All of these subsidiaries are
offshoots of large overseas
automotive concerns, which
spend great sums of money on
research and experimenta-
tion . . .”
It is true that generally the
prices of motor vehicles have
remained steady, mainly due to
the very high level of effective
demand during 1955-1960. The
constantly rising turnover
allowed producers to absorb
increases in the cost of labor
and materials without discom-
fort. But it may be argued
that the profit margin on motor
vehicles has remained rather
high throughout.
TLTire purchase has been used
extensively to expand the
motor vehicles market and
maintain prices, although it is
also true that the quality of
Australian-made cars has im-
proved steadily ; at present the
consumer gets more in real
terms for approximately the
same price. But there seems
to be room for passing on more
of the benefits of higher
mechanical efficiency and
larger turnover —made possible
by a growing market—to the
consumer.
The Federal Government’s
deflationary measures, includ-
ing the short-lived increase in
the sales tax on motor vehicles,
gave a considerable jolt to the
industry. Actual sales of new
motor vehicles early in 1961
were some 43 p.c. lower than
the monthly average for
August, September and Decem-
ber, 1960.
The extra sales tax has now
been lifted, but the generally
tight credit conditions continue
to restrict demand. Slacker
conditions are expected to con-
tinue for some time yet. and
the Federal Chamber of Auto-
motive Industries does not
expect the total number of
motor vehicles on Australian
roads to reach three million
before 1962.
There is little doubt that the
motor vehicles industry has
developed faster than the basic
industrial sector, and has relied
heavily on artificial market
expansion through extensive
use of consumer credit.
Some corrective action has
been necessary, if the national
economy is to be assured a
balanced rate of growth.
Stocks in the industry are
mounting and dismissals have
occurred. The producers and
distributors will have to adjust
their output and prices to
match the conditions of a
somewhat less buoyant market,
with a lower but assured rate
of growth in the motor vehicles
industry.
Demand should strengthen as
the credit restrictions are gradu-
ally relaxed. However, a sudden
upsurge in effective demand in
this sector may be dangerous to
the economy as a whole; it
may be again necessary for the
Government to resort to some
fiscal measures to ensure that
the recovery in the motor
industry remains orderly and
gradual.


COMPANY REPORT
THE CONSOLIDATED ZINC
CORPORATION LIMITED
The twelfth annual meeting of the Company will be held at 6 St. James'
Square, London, S.W.I, on Tuesday, June 20, 1961. The following extracts
are from the statement of the chairman (Mr. L. B. Robinson), which has
been circulated in advance. These extracts mainly concern Australian
activities of the Consolidated Zinc Group.
The group profit before mining
royalty and taxation amounted to
£3,636,434, compared with
£3,969,759 for 1959, a decrease of
£333,325.
The Zinc Corporation Limited
increased the output of ore by
nearly 10 per cent., but the pro-
duction was adjusted to achieve a
lower average lead grade and a
higher average zinc grade. As a
result, lead output was reduced
below that for the previous year
while production of zinc concentrate
was increased and, with a slightly
lower average cost per ton of ore
a substantial increase in profit over
1959 was achieved.
The average London Metal
Exchange price for lead during
1960 was £72 2/11, compared with
£7O 15/7 for 1959, and the average
prices for zinc were £B9 5/11 and
£B2 4/8 respectively.
The various activities of Consoli-
dated Zinc Proprietary Limited
maintained profits at approximately
the same level as for the previous
year.
Australian taxation amounted to
£725,201, compared with £521,922,
and the charge for United Kingdom
tax, after allowing for relief in
respect of Australian taxation,
amounted to £420,381, compared
with £687,893 for 1959.
The consolidated net profit for
the year amounted to £2,295,660,
which shows a decrease of
£367,607 compared with 1959.
The directors recommend that a
hnal dividend should be paid at the
r ate of 2/9 per share, the same as
last year, giving a total distribution
for the year of 4/- per share, the
sanie as for 1959. The balance
carried forward on the consolidated
appropriation account at December
1960, amounted to £1,098,567,
an increase, of £8313.
The group’s capital reserves have
increased by £183,632 comprising
profits less losses on realisation of
fixed assets and investments amount-
ing to £236,573, less the expenses,
amounting to £52,941, of increasing
the authorised share capital and
creating unsecured loan stock
referred to below.
The company agreed in Decem-
ber, 1960, to sell at par to its
associated company, New Broken
Hill Consolidated Limited, 25 per
cent, of the share capital of Sul-
phide Corporation Pty. Limited. At
the same time New Broken Hill
Consolidated has agreed to supply
to Sulphide Corporation for an
initial period of twelve years, com-
mencing January 1, 1961, a major
part of the lead and zinc concen-
trate requirements of the new
smelting plant at Cockle Creek, New
South Wales.
Capital expenditure on buildings,
plant and equipment during 1960
amounted to £5,975,979. A major
part of this expenditure was on the
Imperial Smelting Process plant and
additional sulphuric acid plant at
Cockle Creek, New South Wales,
the completion of the Imperial
Smelting Process plant at Swansea
and the building at 95 Collins Street,
Melbourne, under construction for
the new Australian head office.
Capital expenditure commitments at
the end of the year amounted to
£3,765,000, a considerable reduction
on the commitments at December
31, 1959, of £7,134.000.
The consolidated balance-sheet
shows a cash position of £1,724,144,
compared with £8,077,886 at Decem-
ber 31, 1959.
Commonwealth Aluminium Cor-
poration Pty. Limited became a
wholly-owned subsidiary on Novem-
ber 21, 1960, when the remaining
50 per cent, of the issued capital
was acquired from The British
Aluminium Company Limited. A
short while later the whole of these
shares were transferred to a new
wholly-owned subsidiary, Comalco
Industries Pty. Limited. This com-
pany has not been consolidated in
the group's accounts because at
December 31, 1960, agreement had
been reached to sell 50 per cent,
of our interest for cash to Kaisei
Aluminium & Chemical Corpora-
tion and this transaction was com-
pleted on February 6, 1961. The
cash received by the group on that
dale in respect of 50 per cent, of
the share and loan capital, includ-
ing a premium of 3,500,000 dol.,
amounted to £2,848,273.
Mining
As in 1959, both the Zinc Cor-
poration and its associated company,
New Broken Hill Consolidated,
again budgeted for outputs well
below the respective capacities of
the two mines. However, with the
removal of restrictions on zinc
production following the confer-
ence of the International Lead and
Zinc Study Group held in Septem-
ber, 1959, at Geneva, the 10 per
cent, reduction in working time
which had operated throughout the
Broken Hill field for two years was
lifted in February, 1960.
For the year to 31st December,
1960, the Zinc Corporation treated
a total of 725,550 tons of ore lor
a production of 77,105 tons of
recoverable lead, 1,821,191 ounces
of silver, and 134,483 tons of zinc
concentrate, compared with 667,660
tons of ore for a production of
81,930 tons of recoverable lead,
2,045,978 ounces of silver, and
11 1,873 tons of zinc concentrate in
1959.
New Broken Hill Consolidated
treated 627,600 tons of ore for a
production of 53,191 tons of
recoverable lead, 1,433,055 ounces
of silver, and 147,731 tons of zinc
concentrate, compared with 584,530
tons of ore for a production of
65,737 tons of recoverable lead,
1,785,540 ounces of silver, and
128,416 tons of zinc concentrate in
1959.
Smelting
Production of zinc from tho
Avonmouth and Swansea plants of
Imperial Smelting Corporation was
slightly higher than in 1959. The
Imperial Smelting furnace, which
was commissioned at Swansea in
March, 1960, was the first large-
scale application of the new process
to come into operation.
With the increased use of the
Imperial Smelting process for our
zinc smelting activities at Swansea
and Avonmouth, we have become
significant and increasing producers
of lead bullion in the United
Kingdom.
In Australia, the construction of
the zinc and lead smelter at the
works of Sulphide Corporation Pty.
Limited, at Cockle Creek, near
Newcastle, New South Wales, pro-
ceeded satisfactorily. The new
smelter makes use of the Imperial
Smelting process, and is scheduled
to commence production about the
middle of the present year.
Production
Sales of sulphuric acid to indus-
trial consumers by Sulphide Cor-
poration fell 8 per cent, below the
record of 1959; however, the total
production of acid at the Cockle
Creek works rose by 18 per cent,
to a record level, largely due to
our own increased requirements for
superphosphate manufacture. The
new 250-ton-per-day contact sul-
phuric acid plant was commissioned
in November last.
There was a marked improvement
in sales by Sulphide Corporation of
superphosphate, which exceeded the
previous year's record figure by 42
per cent. There was a significant
increase in the proportion of super-
phosphate spread from the air.
Although the market for rutile
continued to be weak, the produc-
tion by Titanium and Zirconium
(<Continued on next page)


Industries Pty. Limited of rutile and
zircon from beach sands at Strad-
broke Island, Queensland, was at
only a slightly lower level than in
1959.
Interstate Oil Limited
This subsidiary company of the
group holds a one-third interest in
Frome-Broken Hill Company Pro-
prietary Limited through which our
interest been maintained in oil
exploration in Australia. The other
participants in Frome-Broken Hill
are B.P Exploration Company
Limited and Vacuum Oil Company
Proprietary Limited. I mentioned
last year that the most significant
of Frome-Broken Hill’s activities
was in the Portland-Cape Otway
area of Victoria where the results
of the first exploration test well
near Port Campbell justified further
seismic surveys to determine the
best location for further drilling.
An off-shore seismic survey has
since led to the selection of the
site for a fourth test well. This
well, known as Flaxman’s Hill No.
1, is on the coastline about nine
miles west of Port Campbell No. 3
site.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Proprietary Ltd.
Production of lead and silver was
maintained throughout the year at
a very high level at the Port Pirie
Smelter of The Broken Hill Asso-
ciated Smelters Proprietary Limited.
Production of sulphuric acid at
Port Pirie increased from 58,600
tons in 1959 to 66,048 tons in 1960.
Rum Jungle Uranium
Project
Territory Enterprises Pty. Limited,
the wholly-owned subsidiary operat-
ing the Rum Jungle uranium pro-
ject in the Northern Territory on
behalf of the Australian Govern-
ment, completed its eighth year of
management. Production of
uranium oxide, at 320,667 lb., was
very slightly lower than in 1959,
and the tonnage of copper in copper
concentrates produced was virtually
unchanged at 2519 tons.
Mining Timber
Heron’s Creek Timber Mills Pty.
Limited, jointly owned with New
Broken Hill Consolidated Limited,
increased production and sales. As
usual, a high proportion of the
output was produced as mining
timber to meet our needs at Broken
Hill. With steadily increasing pro-
duction from the new central saw-
mill, all but two of the older mills
had been closed down by the end
of the year.
Comalco
Since my statement last year far-
reaching changes have occurred
affecting both the activities of
Commonwealth Aluminium Cor-
poration Pty. Limited (Comalco)
and the interests with which we are
associated.
In November it was announced
that we had entered into a partner-
ship agreement with Kaiser Alu-
minium and Chemical Corporation
for equal participation in the
development of a new integrated
aluminium industry in Australia and
New Zealand.
The plans provide for the con-
struction by mid-1966 of an inte-
grated aluminium industry based
on the bauxite resources of Weipa,
ip North Queensland, and the
hydro-electric power potential of
Lake Manapouri, in southern New
Zealand.
Prior to the association with
Kaiser Aluminium, we had made a
successful offer to purchase the
Federal Government’s interest in
Australia’s only existing aluminium
smelter at Bell Bay, Tasmania. The
Tasmanian Government has a one-
third interest in this undertaking,
and the two-thirds interest secured
by this group has become part of
the joint association with Kaiser
Aluminium. Construction work has
begun on expanding Bell Bay’s
capacity from 12,500 tons annually
to 28,000 tons.
Since the close of the year and
in accordance with the policy of
establishing aluminium fabrication
facilities in Australia, the aluminium
fabricating business of Austral
Bronze Company Pty. Limited (a
subsidiary of Metal Manufactures
Limited) at Yennora, in New South
Wales, and Maribyrnong, in Vic-
toria, has been acquired. New
rolling facilities now under con-
struction at Yennora will come into
production in October. To these
will be added a hot breaking-down
mill and foil rolling plant.
Australian Fluorine Chemi-
cals Pty. Limited
In Australia the group has joined
with Monsanto Chemicals (Aus-
tralia) Limited to form Australian
Fluorine Chemicals Pty. Ltd., and
this new company will commence
the production of isceon fluoro-
carbons at Rozelle, New South
Wales, in the latter half of 1961.
Central Engineering Services
During 1960 the central engineer-
ing department at our Australian
head office was reorganised as a
separate company and amalgamated
with a similar organisation previ-
ously operated by our associated
company, The Broken Hill Asso-
ciated Smelters Pty. Ltd. Apart
from providing important design
facilities for our own projects, an
increasing amount of consulting
work is being done for outside
interests.
Employee Relations
Relations between management
and employees in all the group’s
activities have continued on a good
footing. The industrial situation at
Broken Hill remains satisfactory
and I am happy to state that the
year was free of fatal accidents on
the leases of both the Zinc Corpora-
tion and the New Broken Hill Con-
solidated mines. A new triennial
agreement, operating from 15th
May, 1960, to 15th May, 1963,
inclusive, and containing no sub-
stantial alteration to the terms of
employment at Broken Hill, was
concluded with the Barrier Indus-
trial Council and the affiliated
mining unions. The protracted
negotiations which followed the
expiry of the old agreement in July,
1959, was complicated by the
adverse effect of the temporary
10 per cent, reduction in working
time, increases in margins payable
to tradesmen awarded by the
Federal Conciliation and Arbitration
Commission in November, 1959, and
a proposal by the Broken Hill
mining companies to vary the scale
of lead bonus payments.
Lead and Zinc Markets
In reviewing the world lead and
zinc situation, I would like to stress
that although these two metals
originate in most cases from the
same ore body, their consumption
is showing an increasing tendency
to grow at different rates; and for
this reason it is important that
the prospects of each should be
examined independently.
I believe it is possible that, with
the strengthening of the United
States economy during the second
half of this year, producers’ stocks
of zinc will be reduced to more
normal levels, and if the present
encouraging growth of zinc con-
sumption continues in the rest of
the free world, we can look with
some measure of confidence towards
the future. I consider that the
London Metal Exchange price
between £BO-£9O per ton can assure
the maintenance of an adequate
rate of production without incur-
ring any serious risk of substitu-
tion by other materials.
The history of lead during the
same period has been an unhappy
one, despite the agreements which
had been reached by certain export-
ing countries to restrict their sales
and/or reduce their production.
Stocks both in the hands of over-
seas producers and also in the
United States have increased and
now stand at very high levels. The
fear that these stocks might have
to be liquidated on the world market
at some future date destroyed con-
sumers’ confidence in the price level,
with the result that buying has been
on a hand-to-mouth basis. At the
end of 1960 the price of lead on
the London Metal Exchange fell
to £62 a ton, which is well below
any figure reached since the market
was freed in 1952.
At the Study Group meeting
held in Mexico City at the end of
March, 1961, the U.S. Administra-
tion renewed its generous proposal,
originally put forward in Geneva
in September, 1960, to absorb' in the
barter stockpile some of the over-
seas producers’ excess lead stocks
on condition that such producers
who might benefit by the lifting of
their stocks should restrict their
mine and metal production to match
a reduced level of sales.
In the case of zinc, the meeting
agreed at Mexico City that no action
was necessary to reduce supplies.
Jointly with the other Broken
Hill companies, we are actively
negotiating with the U.S. authori-
ties to barter our surplus stocks of
lead accumulated under the inter-
national restriction arrangements
prior to 31st December. 1960.
While I recognise the problems
still facing the lead industry, I am
encouraged to believe that with
any improvement in world indus-
trial conditions over the next few
years the consumption of lead will
do more than hold its own.
Conclusion
We have every confidence in the
developments in the lead and zinc
fields.
The bringing into operation of
the new smelter and its ancillary
equipment now on the point of
completion at Cockle Creek would
in themselves enable us to look
back on 1960 as a year of great
development.
These developments have com-
bined to place an unusually heavy
strain on all departments of the
group’s personnel, and a particu-
larly warm tribute is due to our
management, staff and employees at
all levels of the organisation in the
United Kingdom, in Australia, and
in Canada for their loyal and
zealous service during the past year.
L. B. ROBINSON,
3rd May, 1961,
Persons who would like a copy
of the full report are invited to
write to the Company at G.P-0-
Box 384 D, Melbourne.


1 A D
Australia’s largest Radio
Electrical & Television Retailers
6
met
Registered First
Debenture Stock
• SHORT TERM
3 months notice Sl% P.A.
6 months notice 1% P-A.
12 months notice 3% P.A.
Investments in short term
stock are for an indefinite
period. Repayment is obtained
by giving notice selected on
application form.
• LONG TERM
4 years f|% P.A.
5& 6 years 81% P.A.
7to 20 years 9% P.A.
Trustees for Debenture Stock-
holders:
The M.L.C. Nominees Pty. Ltd.
Where to
• H. G. Palmer (Consoli-
dated) Limited,
321-5 Chapel Rd., Bankstown.
UY 4035
• Any H. G. Palmer suburban
showroom or at Canberra,
Casino, Gosford, Goulburn,
Lismore, Newcastle, Nowra,
Wollongong, Warrawong, Vic-
toria, South Australia and
Queensland.
• Any member of a recog-
nised Stock Exchange.
• Any branch of:
Australia and New Zealand
Bank Limited
• Any branch of:
THE NATIONAL BANK OF
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
7
y EARs
Applications will be accepted only
on the printed form attached to
the prospectus.
ASSETS EXCEED
£24,000,000
INTEREST PAID QUARTERLY
Invest:
UNDERWRITING BROKERS:
N.S.W.: Bernard Curran & Co.
9-11 Hunter Street, Sydney.
VIC.: Vinton Smith, Dougail
& Co., 401 Collins St., Mel-
bourne.
Q'LAND.: Ernest H. Corser,
Henderson & Hale, 334 Queen
Street, Brisbane.
STH. AUST.: Woodhead, Need-
ham & Tolhurst, 35 Grenfell
St., Adelaide.
TASMANIA: H. W. Bayley & Co.
A.M.P. Building, cnr. entrance,
Collins and Elizabeth Streets,
Hobart.
WEST AUST. Geo. H. Newton,
Fuller & Co., 105 St. George's
Terrace, Perth.
SILVER
Supply Trails Demand
r arge sales by Communist
v China, both in the London
market and directly in Europe,
were a prominent feature of the
i 960 world silver market. There
W as a revival of interest in
silver for forward delivery on
the London market. The drain
on the U.S. Treasury’s “free”
silver holdings continued, re-
sulting in a reported loss of
over 50 million ozs. during the
calendar year.
On the whole the inter-
national silver market remained
firm— “very steady and un-
eventful,” as described by
Samuel Montagu's authoritative
Annual Bullion Review,
1960.”
The prospects are for a
’steady if slow, rise in the inter-
national free price of silver.
This is because, for many years
now, world silver output has
'been trailing the growing
demand for the white metal
- the gap becoming ever
wider due to the rising inkus-
itrial uses of silver.
The revival of silver coinage
in some countries has boosted
consumption e\ en furthe r.
-accentuating the gap between
the inadequate supply and
demand. For a while this was
partly filled by sales from silver
stocks accumulated as a result
of demonetisation. Soviet sales
once played an important role
hut are no longer a major
factor. Demonetisation pro-
grammes are almost over —in
fact the reverse process is
beginning. The U.S. Treasury's
“free” stocks are subjected to
heavy pressure.
Over the past two years Com-
munist China has emerged as
imajor silver suoplier. but it
may be doubted whether Peking
will be able to continue in that
role for any length of time.
Chinese silver holdings are con-
siderable, but they are mainly
in coin or sycee. This means
that the Chinese refining capa-
city may become a limiting
factor in Peking efforts to
supply the world market.
Samuel Montagu and Co.
Ltd, a leading London inter-
national bullion merchant, feels
that in the near future “the
supply stringency will ensure a
firm undertone but, provided
the U.S. Treasury continues to
meet the marginal needs of
U.S. domestic consumers, we
do not look for any runaway
rise in prices during 1961. It
may even happen that some re-
selling at maturity of the recent
considerable forward purchases
will cause temporary price set-
backs, especially if it coincides
with seasonal slackness in in-
dustrial demand. However, it
the pressure being exerted
upon the U.S. authorities by
mining interests to withdraw
from the market is successful,
a strong upward movement in
prices would probably ensue. ’
The elasticity of supply of sil-
ver is relatively low and, more-
over, silver is now basically a
by-product of base metal min-
ing. Silver output need not
necessarily expand adequately
to meet rising demand In the
long run therefore, the pros-
pect of higher silver prices on
the world market seems in-
evitable.
Australia’s silver outout in
1960 was estimated at 15
million ounces troy (uo 200,000
ounces troy). Of this 3.149,920
ounces was exported to the
United Kingdom, compared
with 2.860,754 ounces in 1959.
[BOOL
Sales Promotion
The conference of the Inter-
* national Wool Secretariat,
recently concluded in Sydney,
ted with a joint statement
from Sir William Gunn (chair-
tan of the I.W.S. Board and
lof the Australian Wool
Bureau) and his two vice-
fhairmen (Dr J. G. van der
Wath, of South Africa, and Mr
fr Acland, of New Zealand).
M three I.W.S. partner coun-
Wes, they said, would now go
forward as one, consolidating
Jn d improving wool’s position
5s the premier textile fibre.
Mr R. G. Lund has been
{.PPointed regional director for
Europe and the U.K., and Mr
T. F. Hurly is to become direc-
tor of administration at world
headquarters. Regional direc-
tors for America and Asia, as
well as the key managing direc-
tor, have not yet been selected
and are to be appointed later.
Possibly the most important
decision of the conference was
the appointment of an inter-
national scientific committee to
advise the secretariat on ex-
change and application of
scientific information from all
countries, and to intensify the
development of new processes
and finishes in all parts of the
world. Arrangements are to
be made to establish an experi-


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies’ Act of New South Wales on Bth March, 1950)
(ASSETS EXCEED £7,500,000)
•M
r
PER ANNUM
5 YEARS
6 or 10
YEARS
%
P.A.
4 YEARS
P.A.
2 or 3
2
YEARS
SHORT TERM RATES
B'/°
P.A.
12
MTHS'.
NOTICE
7*
P.A.
6
MTHS*
NOTICE
6f‘,
3
MTHS'.
NOTICE
6>
P.A.
1
MTH'S.
NOTICE
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
Funds may be withdrawn in a personal
emergency.
Increased interest rates apply on renewal of
investments.
’nterest paid quarterly FREE OF EXCHANGE through
the BANK OF N.S.W.
Obtain Prospectus and application forms from all
branches of the BANK OF N.S.W.
The Company's Offices, Ground Floor, Cambridge
House, 249 George Street, Sydney. 'Phone: BU 5542.
Ground Floor, 411-413 Lonsdale St., Melbourne. 67-6792.
Any Member of a Recognised Stock Exchange.
Underwriting Brokers:
Ralph W. King & Yuili (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
Corrie & Co. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
Leonard G. May & Son (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
Trustee for Stockholders:
Bankers & Traders' Insurance Company Limited
Investigating Accountants for the Underwriting Brokers:
Smith Johnson & Co.
Registrar: Bank of N.S.W. Nominees Pty. Ltd.
Registers: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Canberra.
Applications for the debenture stock accepted only on one of the forms of
application attached to a printed copy of the prospectus.
Clip and Post Coupon
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED,
Ground Floor, Cambridge House, 249 George St., Sydney.
Please send me without obligation a copy of the prospectus with
application forms.
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 'io/6
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FILE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 18'8
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman)
BTRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. O. S. PETTERSEN, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in ail Country Centres
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write
to the Manager, who will quote you a price for the
original.
mental wool-finishing plant in
the U.S.A. which can introduce
new finishing techniques to the
wool manufacturing industry.
The conference paid consider-
able attention to the U.S.,
where the market has declined
by 30 per cent, since 1950. The
directors agreed that because
of the high cost of advertising
in America and the l arS e
population to be covered, their
best method of approach will
be to link with key retailers
and manufacturers by direct
effort to promote interest i n
specific articles in the most
important markets.
UNITED KINGDOM
Offer to reduce tariffs
CTr Edgar Cohen, leader of
the United Kingdom dele-
gation to the international
tariff conference in Geneva,
Switzerland, has stated that the
British Government will make
some “substantial reductions”
in Customs tariffs on a wide
range of industrial goods. It
is believed that the proposed
U.K. tariff cuts may be as high
as 20 p.c.
The executive secretary of
the General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade said in
Geneva that the six European
Common Market nations have
already offered “a 20 p.c. tariff
cut across a whole section of
industrial goods.” However,
this offer was conditional on
the reaction of the other dele-
gations taking part in the con-
ference. A total of 36 countries
are taking part in the discus-
sions.
The U.K. tariff cut, if effec-
tive, is not expected to cause
any hardship to Australian
exporters at this stage. It is
believed that the U.K. move
would facilitate agreement be-
tween Great Britain and the
Common Market nations.
NEW ZEALAND
Export lamb output lower
TVew Zealand’s production of
' lamb for export during the
first quarter of 1961 was 1.6
million carcasses lower than in
the same period in 1960. The
Meat Producers’ Board reports
that the decline has more than
offset the rise which had
occurred in the early months
of the current lamb season in
New Zealand. The season’s
total export lamb output to
the end of March declined by
100,000 carcasses, compared
with the figures for the previous
year.
The Board reports that the
overseas market for New
Zealand ewe mutton remains
strong. Demand is satisfactory
in the United Kingdom, Japan,
Greece and the other regular
markets.
However, there is some
apprehension as to the future
prospects for all New Zealand
meat exports if the United
Kingdom should join the Euro-
pean Common Market and
be compelled to abandon, or
substantially modify, the exist-
ing Commonwealth preferences
arrangements.
COMMODITY TRADE
M. F. Compensation
A group of experts appointed
by the United Nations
Secretary - General has com-
pleted a special report stating
that there is a need for inter
national compensations for
fluctuations in commodity
trade. The experts suggest that
the International Monetary
Fund can and should play an
increasing role in compensa-
tory financing. Long term
financing, to ensure at least the
continuation of imports essen-
tial for development, is required
and should be “appropriately
timed.” This is reported in the
I.M.F.’s official publication, the
“International Financial News
Survey.”
The basis for these conclu-
sions is that “there has in recent
years been serious instability in
commodity markets, and that
there is no good reason to
expect the situation to change
greatly for a number of years
ahead. This instability has had
numerous adverse effects,
especially in the less developed
primary producing countries.’
One of the recommendations
submitted proposes an inter-
national insurance scheme,
which would involve the
creation of a central fund into
which all member countries
would pay contributions and
against which automatic pay*
ments could be made in specific
cases.


ISgeII
; a ßano%i
pslV'h.. *:r
AiATtiiieo '«* s *
I*«COve- 8 ltd
* fine Australian
ot-still
••• • i
:
*
YOUR
FAVOURITE
BRANDY
T
BRANDY
ALSO ASK FOR ANGOVE’SWINE
Your Ist
financial
responsibility
Adequate
LIFE ASSURANCE
through the
AUSTRALIAN METROPOLITAN
LIFE ASSURANGE CO. LTD
The Metropolitan Bldg., Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney.
BW 8061.
Speculator's Diary
Monday, June 5
Now you’ll never guess what
was the nicest thing to
happen to me this week. No,
it wasn’t the listing of John
! Lysaght shares—though I must
confess that was more than a
bit exciting. It was the appear-
ance of a sample cake of
“fabulous pink” Camay soap
in my letterbox. I doubt if it’s
yet made me lovelier than ever,
but it has certainly made me
, more satisfied than ever with
my £6OO investment in Parbury
Henty and Marrickville Hold-
ings—the makers and distribu-
tors, respectively, of this soap
in Australia for Proctor and
Gamble. Marrickville’s price
has, of course, responded fairly
well to this link with Proctor
and Gamble but Parbury
Henty hasn’t. Surely the
manufacture of this soap for
nationwide distribution must be
boosting along Parbury's over-
all business? However the
share price remains sluggish at
about 16s. 6d, which is slightly
less than I paid for my 200
shares back in March.
My first purchase this week
was 400 Ready Mixed Concrete
shares at 13s. 6d. These 1
bought as a result of one of my
broker’s rare moments of solici-
tation. The day the shares
went ex-rights he rang me to
say they were selling at 13s. 6d.
compared with the rights at
Bs. 6d. which don't carry anv
entitlement to the next divi-
dend. Besides at 13s. 6d the
yield was 4.5 per cent, and it
must be two years or more
since Ready Mixed were so
cheap. So I agreed that the
shares looked a bit of a gift at
13s. 6d. and bought 400
The problem was to find the
money to pay for them. 1 had
a miserable £l5 cash on hand
so that wasn’t much help My
thoughts then turned to some
of the other new issues I had
bought recently—David Jones.
Concrete Industries, N B. Love
and the Marrickvilles. Those
David Jones notes have been a
big disappointment and I was
very tempted to sell them. But
when I looked up the price I
saw they were down to 10s. 3d.
With the other ss. call to be
Paid at the end of August they
Were a full 2s. cheaper than
the shares which were selling at
17s. 3d. Yet there is practically
no income difference between
the notes and shares. So instead
of selling my David Jones I
bought 200 more!
Now this, of course, didn t
help my financial position any.
blow I had to find, not £261,
but £367!
There seemed no alternative
but to realise on 200 of my
precious Marrickvilles. Still, I
had done well with them so I
sold my original 200 at 265. for
a profit of £43.
They brought in £260 so I
still needed another £ 100-odd.
I decided that it might be a
wise precaution to sell off 200
of the John Darlings I’d bought
at Bs. 9d. on rumors of a take-
over. This takeover rumor
found its way into one of the
Sunday papers which, I felt,
might give me an opportunity
to take a small profit on 200
and still leave me with 300 in
case the offer eventuates. I
must confess, though, that I am
suspicious of takeover rumors,
particularly if nothing develops
within a day or two. At
time of writing my 200 had not
been sold so I don’t know what
they’ll bring into the coffers.
But by Monday morning my
cash worries seemed to be over
with John Lysaght shares sell-
ing at dizzy heights. I rang my
broker to get the opening prices
and was so staggered I had the
audacity to put my 100 con-
tributing shares on at a 60s.
limit. It paid off. Within a
few minutes my broker was
back on the 'phone to say
they’d been sold at 60s. My
profit was £196 and I was out
of the red. So God bless John
Lysaght (whoever he was).
Details of the week’s business
were:
BOUGHT
400 Ready Mixed at
13/6 £276
200 David Jones notes
at 10/3 .. .. £lO6
SOLD
200 Marrickville at 26/- £260
100 John Lysaght (20/-
paid) at 60/- .. £296
All that left me with £lB9
cash and these shares:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Total Per rent
Shares Conu>any Cost Share Price
400 Antill K. £251 12/3 13/-
100 Pick-Me-Up 414 81/6 £5/3/-
500 Merica 165 6/4 7/-
500 Stocks &
Holdings def. 212 8/3 8/0
200 Tom Piper 235 22/3 26/-
200 Hornibrook 234 23/ 25/-
200 l’arbury
Henty 174 17/- HP3
200 Marrickville 217 21/3 25/6
132 Marley Tile 158 24/-
400 David Jones
notes 207 10/ 10/3
200 Concrete Ind.
contribs. 96 9/5 10/-
400 N. B. Love
contribs. 94 4/8 5/4
500 Newcastle Ten
Pin Bowling 125 5/-
400 Watkins
Consol. 105 5/- 6/-
500 John Darling 225 8/9 10/-
300 Moran &
Cato 299 19/6 19/4i
400 Phillips Oil 100 5/-
400 Ready Mixed 276 13/6 14/4


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Mutual Provident Society
"Cor the average person, no other form
of investment offers such a degree of
capital protection as the life policy.
Recognition of this fact, plus the growth
of population, inflation (which has in-
creased the need for greater life cover)
and the development of group assurance
and superannuation schemes, has con-
tributed to the great expansion of assur-
ance business in latter years.
Total life assurance cover has more
than trebled in Australia during the last
decade, and sums assured, including rever-
sionary bonus additions, are now in excess
of £4OOO million.
New Policies Issued (Excluding Annuities).*
Year to Sum Year to Sum
June 30, Assured. June 30, Assured.
£’ooo. £’ooo.
1955 .. 325,183 | 1958 . . 484,567
1956 .. 367,374 | 1959 .. 553,352
1957 .. 425,335 | 1960 .. 724,809
* Source: Commonwealth Bureau of Census and
Statistics.
The system has withstood the test of time,
including two world wide depressions and
two world wars ; the life offices cater for
a wide variety of personal wants and
needs outside the range of social security
legislation.
Patriarch and largest mutual life office
in the British Commonwealth, the 112-
year-old A.M.P. Society writes a big share
of the record amounts of new assurance
taken out over recent years. Impressive
financial strength and competitive pre-
miums and bonus rates have assisted the
A.M.P. to chalk up a series of record
breaking figures. In the term to Decem-
ber 31, 1960, despite increased competi-
tion (in the last four or five years one
Continental based life office and upwards
of 10 British life offices have either begun
business in Australia or announced their
intention of doing so ; at the same time
there has been an unprecedented estab-
lishment of varied and new and alternative
—that is alternative to life assurance —
savings and investment media), income,
assets, new business, payments to policy-
holders and the amount of reversionary
bonuses distributed, all rose to new levels.
At balance date there were 2,686,957
policies in force in the ordinary and
collector (formerly industrial) depart-
ments, assuring a total (including £l9O
million in bonuses) of £A.2083 million —
this is the second year in which the A.M.P.
has published accounts with all figures in
Australian currency. The sum assured
under new business rose by £68.3 million
to £306.3 million (an increase of 28.7 p.c.)
and of the total 94.5 p.c. was written in
the ordinary department.
The new type policy, the “A.M.P.
Collector Policy,” was first introduced
into Australia in July, 1960 ; it was intro-
duced into New Zealand in September.
The collector department envisages an
entirely new range of policy contracts to
replace the old industrial policies and is
designed “to meet the various needs of
the average family and provide substantial
cover together with a premium collection
service.” It has boosted the volume of
new business, as against that written in
the industrial department in 1959, and at
the same time facilitated reduction of
managerial expenses.
Taken together, the two departments,
the O.D. (ordinary department) and
the C.D. (collector department), lifted
premium income by £3.7 million to £53.9
million ; of which insurance premiums
yielded £52.4 million (up £3.5 million),
and purchase money for annuities £1.5
million (up £140,000). A further £21.8
million (up £1.9 million) came in, after
income and land taxes (£2.9 million) per
medium of interest, divs., rent, etc. Total
income rose to £75.7 million (up £5.6
million and equivalent to an increase of
8 p.c.) representing an average of over £1
million a week from premiums and nearly
£500,000 a week from interest, divs., rent,
etc.
Ordinary Department.*
Totiil Ex- Written Added
Dec., Income. Claims. penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
’57.47,966,781 16,052,591 5,395,777 169,127 26 155 628
Exchange adjustment, £193,658 ’ ’
’58.53,233,809 17,694,154 5,735,956 378,670. 29 06g 452
Exchange adjustment, £356,577
Loss sale assets . . reduction 91,522
'59.61,972,791 19,985,110 6,643,498 534,62934,809,554
Surplus sale assets . . .. . . 108,294
Transfer to industrial department,
reduction 50,430
’60.67,523,052 21,978,368 7,339,820 2,168,504
36,036,360
Surplus sale assets . . . . . . 684,571
Tax overprovided . . • • . . 402,917
Revaluation ordinary shareholdings . . 1,894,183
Transfer to A.M.P. Superannuation
Pty .. .. . . reduction 9,225,274
Transfer to investment and con-
tingencies reserve . . reduction 250,000
* Figures up until and including 1958 unavailable
on a converted basis.
Collector Department (formerly Industrial
Department up until and including 1959)*
Total Ex. Written Added
Dec., Income. Claims. penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
’57.7,689,639 5,654,556 1,627,350 28,980 1 345,878
Exchange adjustment, £32,875 .. j
Surplus sale assets . . . . . . 19,094
'58.7,542,054 5,341,637 1,635,757 60,083 1 743,556
Exchange adjustment, £56,021 .. j
Loss sale assets . . reduction 14,379
’59.8,084,298 5,539,376 1,677,715 73,612 793,595
Surplus sale assets .. .. • • 15,259
Transfer from ordinary department 50,430
’60.8,184,430 5,265,899 1,830,245 286,249 802,037
Surplus sale assets .. . . . . 92,223
Tax overprovided . . . . . . 4,375
Revaluation ordinary shareholdings . . 184,489
* Figures up until and including 1958 unavailable
on a converted basis.
Expressed as a percentage of premium
income, expenses of management in
respect of ordinary business rose from
14.54 p.c. to 14.90 p.c., a minor increase
alongside wage and price inflation and
due in large measure to increased com-
mission payments. In the C.D., where
numerous small premium payments have
to be dealt with, the ratio rose from
28.29 p.c. to 30.43 p.c. Extensive
mechanisation of accounting precedures,
a tendency towards larger individual
policies (reflecting, in part, a growing
public appreciation of taxation exemp-
tions attaching to insurance premium
payments) and the new type collector
policy have played a considerable part
in checking the growth of the expense
ratios, which, as far as controllable ex-
penses are concerned, have remained
relatively stable.
When all claims and expenses had been
met, after writing £2.5 million (up £pg
million) off the book values of certain
assets, mainly fixed interest securities
acquired in periods of low interest rates
(their current market value well below
book values) and after transferring £9.2
million to the A.M.P. Superannuation Pty
and £250,000 to investment and contin-
gencies reserve, £30.1 million of the
term’s income remained to be added to
the life funds (£480,808,989) —the term’s
income including surpluses from sale of
investments £O.B million (up £0.7 million ;
the increase attributable in the main to
co. takeovers), tax overprovided written
back, £0.4 million, and revaluation to par,
£1.6 million, of all bonus shares received
by the society up to December 31, 1960,
and still held at that date.
The A.M.P. Superannuation Pty, a
wholly owned subsidiary, was set up
during last term to administer to part
of the society’s superannuation business.
Transfers (£9.2 million) represent assets
transferred to match liabilities taken over
—where clients requested transfer of their
superannuation plans. The assets of the
subsidiary, £10.4 million at close of the
accounts, included £6.3 million of local
and semi-government securities and £3.3
million of co. debentures. The reduction
of the society’s holdings of these classes
of security, during 1960, is preponderantly
a result of this realignment of interests.
Until recently, life offices have been
strict adherents to the principle of abso-
lute security in investment of their funds;
but the pressure from higher yielding
alternatives which are becoming increas-
ingly available to potential policyholders
has necessitated a revision of traditional
practice. Greater yields are now being
sought so as to enable distribution of more
attractive bonuses. The commensurably
higher risk is justified in the knowledge
that better returns will, when averaged
over the entire portfolio, more than com-
pensate for any loss of capital in un-
successful individual investment.
Last term the A.M.P. channelled funds
increasingly to commerce and industry
rather than to Government securities.
And at balance date, the society held
shares in 689 cos. engaged in most forms
of industry and commerce in Australia,
N.Z. and the U.K. Holdings of deben-
tures and shares rose by £12.6 million to
£71.2 million ord. share holdings
rising £14.5 million (up £9.7 million) to
£33.2 million including the bonus shares
revaluation, £1.6 million; pref. share hold-
ings rising £l.l million to £6.2 million—
and loans on mortgage, a big proportion
of which relate to housing, lilted by £18.6
million (of which £7 million went to
housing) to £208.6 million—£s6 million in
housing loans, £4l million in pastoral and
farm loans, and £lll million in industrial
and commercial loans. Government and
semi-government loans dropped £8.2
million to £162.7 million, with Australian
Government securities aggregating £lOB.l
million, or more than 46 p.c. of total in-
vestments. Effective net interest rate,
after deduction of income and land taxes,
worked out at £4 17s. Id. per cent. —that
is 2s. p.c. better than in the previous term.
To arrive at the surplus £l9 million (up
£2.6 million) available for distribution
among policyholders, the society’s liabili-
ties under policies in force, with the ex-


PATRICK & COMPANY
Members ol the Sydney Stock Exchange
R. H. ALLEN, M. R. L. DOWLING
P. R. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS, N. R
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner)
Delfin House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5011 (20 tines).
Prudential Building, 150 Queen St..
Melbourne. 67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdaie,” Sydney
Melbourne, or Wollongong.
Telegraphic and Cable Address:
“Hatmax” Sydney.
Hatfersley & Maxwell
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW mi— BVV 8088.
JOHN N. ROBERTSON
member of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHAKE BROKER.
Temple Court,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne C.l,
Telephones: 67 4804, 67 2465
Telegrams & Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
THE
ARMIDALI SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOL
situated in the Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Buildings.
Junior House separate from the rest
of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on application
to
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
ception of certain contracts on the N.Z.
register, were actuarially valued at an
unchanged 2 p.c. net premium basis for
assurances with deferred participation,
l\ p.c. for policies with immediate par-
ticipation and 2j p.c. for all other types
of business:
1959. 1960.
Assurance funds* .. £450,433,108 £480,808,989
Actuarial liability* .. 434,030,257 461,856,821
Surplus .. .. £16,402,851 £18,952,168
Bonuses 15,808,983 18,184,239
Carried forward as—
Reserve contingencies
Res. interim bonuses 155,000 150,000
Res. group cash ■
bonus . . . 58,000 88,000
Unappropriated .. 380,868 529,929
* Include investment and contingency reserve,
£7,000,000 at 31/12/60.
Last year, £18.2 million (up £2.4 million)
went to reversionary bonuses, the distribu-
tion being the largest ever made by the
A.M.P. ; bonus rates were at their highest
level in 30 years. The total amount of
additional assurance created by the divi-
sion of the surplus was £34.6 million (up
£5.1 million).
In 1958, the A.M.P. formed two sub-
sidiary co.s, both wholly owned, the
A.M.P. Fire and General Insurance Co.
Ltd, and the A.M.P Fire and General
Insurance Co. (N.Z.) Ltd, so as to offer
comprehensive assurance cover to policy-
holders. Managing agent for the former
is United Insurance Co. Ltd, and for the
latter South British Insurance Co. Ltd.
Results to date have been encouraging,
both co.s swelling the surplus from which
policyholders, in the parent, receive
bonuses. Gross premium income of the
Australian co., for the year, was £875,555
(up £412,665); of the N.Z. co., £183,902
(up £119,956). The Australian co. earned
a lax paid profit of £39,409 and paid a
10 d.c. div. After writing off establish-
ment expenses, the N.Z. co. turned in
a profit allowing payment of a 2 p.c.
div.
Discount Corporation of Australia Pty,
two-thirds owned, as an authorised dealer
co. in the official short term money
market, commenced operations in April,
1959 Results have been more than
satisfactory.
Rapid progress is the keynote of the
society’s skyscraper already dominating
Sydney Cove. A new 11-storey office
building is being built in Auckland :
1959. p.c. 1960. p.c.
Government
securitiesf ..£170,862,032 36.8 £162,692,100 32.7
Mortgages . . 189,968,072 40.6 208,559,154 41.9
Loans on policies,
etc 21,834,195 4.7 24,442,652 4.9
Shares and de-
bentures .. 58,626,823 12.5 71,204,819 14.3
Debtors, etc.; 7,623,286 1.6 8,522,241 1.7
Cash .. .. 4,0201 5,128 1
) 3.8 i 4.5
Freeholds, etc. 18,503,305 ] 22,619,387 J
Total assets. . £467,421,733 £498,045,481
Liabilities* . . 16,505,204 16,653,038
Net assets. . £450,916,529 £481,392,443
t Includes local- and semi-government securities.
4 Mainly accrued interest and outstanding premiums.
* Other (ban liabilities under policies.
Total assets rose by £30.6 million during
the year The holding in Government
securities is well above the minimum (30
p.c.) prescribed for maximum tax benefits.
It can be taken for granted that there
will be further growth in life assurance
and that the A.M.P. Society will partici-
pate in this growth. Through its balanced
investment policy, through its entry into
the fire and general insurance field, and
(in Australia) through its activities on the
official short term money market, the
A.M.P. plays a deserving role in ensuring
that domestic resources of capital are
marshalled and put to effective use in the
development of the economies of both
Australia and New Zealand.
Marcus Clark & Co. Ltd
'T'ime and tide wait for no man. The
old - established but progressively
somnolent—at least until recently —
Sydney retailer, Marcus Clark and Co.
Ltd., is suddenly transformed into a
hard hitting, sales conscious conquistador,
a force to be reckoned with in the in-
creasingly competitive retail industry.
The co. has embarked upon a vigorous
reorganisation and extension of business
—an all-out effort to reverse declining
profit trends of the past few years.
Founded in 1883, and registered as a
public co. in 1902, the Marcus Clark
complex comprises parent and six sub-
sidiaries, controlling, in all, 16 stores and
one furniture factory:
Marcus Clark and Co. Ltd—the parent co.
with departmental stores in Sydney’s Railway
Square, Newcastle, Wollongong and Dubbo (2),
and showrooms in Tamworth, Inverell and
Lithgow (all of N.S.W.).
Bon Marche Ltd —wholly owned; depart-
mental store in Broadway, Sydney.
Hobsons Pty—wholly owned; home furnish-
ing store in North Sydney; branch store in the
St Ives Shopping Centre (a Sydney suburb)
Miller Anderson Ltd —62 p.c. owned;
departmental stores in Adelaide, Clare and
Naracoorte (all of S.A.).
Oxford Furnishing Co. Pty—taken over in
July 1, 1960; wholly owned; furniture stores
in Wagga and Tumut, N.S.W.
Wilga Production Pty—wholly owned; manu-
facturing bedding and selected furniture.
Marcus Clark Acceptance Ltd —registered in
April, 1960; financier of long-term credit sales
for the group.
Recent disappointments (up until 18
months ago) resolve around the ill-
favored location of the main store (Rail-
way Square), which, besides being well
removed from the real commercial axis
of downtown Sydney, has also to contend
with up-and-coming suburban retailers,
intense retail rivalry, seasonal fluctua-
tions in N.S.W. country areas—affecting
the co.’s extensive rural mail-order busi-
ness and the co.’s long - standing
wariness of more extensive customer
credit facilities.
But in the 12 months to July 31 last,
performance proved anything but dis-
appointing. Group turnover rose to
record levels (up £656,194 at £6,748,918),
all stores contributing increased sales.
Costs were reduced, net profit coming
home a much improved £123,595 (up
£38,215 or 44.8 p.c.)—tribute to helms-
manship of newly appointed managing
director G. S. Clark. Parent net profit
lifted £24,581 to £122,103.
Marcus Clark effected major re-
shuffling of its tactical strengths during
the year under review. The Bon Marche
store has been sold to the Department of
Technical Education, and work has com-
menced on construction of a new 60,000
sq. ft. store in Liverpool, which will be
one of the first in Australia to introduce
the American system of “self selection”
merchandising. The largest departmental
store in the Liverpool district, it is
expected to open next October. Bon
Marche carries on for the time being


You’ll have an interest in
210
REXD MURRAY
enterprises
Reg. First
Mortgage
Debenture
Stock
P.A. FOR
8 AND 10
YEARS
Shown above are just a few of the opera-
ting companies of the fteid Murray group.
Ail told these include: 197 Retail Stores,
7 Wholesale Warehouses, Real Estate
Companies in 5 States, and the Finance
Co. for the group Reid Murray Accept-
ance Ltd. An investment in Reid Murray
Acceptance Ltd. is an investment in one
of Australia’s best backed Companies.
Applications accepted only on forms attached
to the Prospectus. Available from:
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67-1924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melb.
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William Street, Adelaide
408 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.
PAID UP CAPITAL £7,000,000
FIXED LONG TERM STOCK
9%
BWO
8%
7%%
P.A 8-10 YEARS
P.A 5 YEARS
P.A 3 YEARS
P.A 2 YEARS
SHORT TERM NOTICE STOCK
7 Wh
6%
s°/o
P.A. on 12 mths. notice
RMA.I3V
GUARANTEED BY REID MURRAY HOLDINGS LTD.
in its old premises on a leasing
arrangement.
The new subsidiaries, Oxford
Furnishing Co. (purchase con-
sideration involving issue of
£109,246 8 p.c. unsecured
notes redeemable July 1, 1965,
plus cash) and Marcus Clark
Acceptance Ltd (Marcus Clark
subscribing £250,000 in ord.
capital and recently a further
£250,000 ; the public subscrib-
ing £500,000 in first mortgage
debenture stocks with interest
rates up to 8| p.c.) are ex-
pected to contribute increased
profits. The finance offshoot
will handle finance previously
provided by an outside
financier.
A large-scale modernisation
programme is in progress with
the Lithgow, Miller Anderson
and Hobson stores acquiring a
new look. The former show-
room at Lithgow is being re-
located and converted into a
specialty branch store. Marcus
Clark’s accounting systems
have been completely mecha-
nised.
The latest result (consoli-
dated net profit) is determined
after writing off £55,381 for
depreciation (down £397), pay-
ing all expenses, £ 1,933,645
(up £136,746), providing
£101,899 for taxation (up
£41,526) and deducting payout
to outside shareholders:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
/ Dividends ,
Prefs. Ords. Re-
Profit. 6& 6} 10 p.e. serves. *
Aug., p.c.
£ £ £ £
’56..136,613 37,360 55,679 1,128,107
Assets revalued, £698,083 1,826,190
Capital profit, £39,981 1,860,171
Tax overprovided, £11,034 1,877,205
Unexplained reduction,
£1699 1,875,506
9 p.c.
’57..106863t 37,360 54,667 1,890,342
Tax overprovided, £7OOO 1,897,342
Goodwill w/oft, £72,3 78 1,824,964
W/back ex-stock reserve
£6OOO 1,830,964
Unexplained reduction,
£2169 1,828,795
8 p.c.
’58..100,741 37,360 48,592 1,843,584
Capital loss sub-subsi-
diarv, £2OO . . . . 1,843,384
To staff fund, £25,000 1,818,384
Capital profit, £913 .. 1,819,297
Goodwill w/off, £8050.. 1,811,247
Asset revaluation,
£285,844 . . .. 2,097,091
Unexplained reduction,
£36.827 . . . . 2,060,264
’59.. 85,380 37,360 48,592 2,059,692
Capital profit, £43,211.. 2,102,903
Stock provisions written
back, £176,7 5 7 .. 2,27 9,660
Less asset revalua-
tions, £171,060 .. 2,108,600
Pre-acquisition profits of
subsidiary co., £25,031 2,133,631
9 p.c.
’60..123,595 37,360 54,666 2,165,200
* Subject to intangibles (written on
1960.
t Includes figures tor one subsidiary
for 13 months.
It is equivalent to an earning
rate of 14.2 p.c. on ord. capi-
tal, after satisfying the un-
changed pref. div. require-
ments, and compares with 8
p.c. in the previous year and
10.6, 8.8 and 14.7 p.c. back
to 1956.
The increased ord. div., up
from 8 to 9 p.c., was well
covered but conversion of


f
m
M*
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS. £891,419.
TANGIBLE ASSETS, £3,184,264.
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
AND OVER
APPLICATIONS must be made
on the form enclosed with the
prospectus, which is obtainable
from
Members of the Stock Exchange
ANY BRANCH OF A.N.Z. BANK
The Registered Office of the Com-
pany, William & Crown Sts.,
Sydney. Telephone FA 0322.
Financing world-
famous products
distributed by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies.
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
LISTER
Engines
GROUP SALES
IN 1960
£14,757,281
MAIL THIS COUPON'
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 1/4/61, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
HD82.8
8.10/6
notes (issued during last term)
could place an ultimate and
considerable strain on main-
tenance —there are £404,938 of
unsecured 8 p.c. notes con-
vertible into ord. stock units
January 31, 1965, and £48,000
of unsecured 1\ p.c. notes
(issued by Miller Anderson in
acquisition of freehold
property) convertible at the
noteholders’ option on Feb-
ruary 1, 1964, or compulsorily
convertible on February 1,
1969, into 32,000 20s. ords. in
Miller Anderson. Paid capital
is presently held in 300,000
6 p.c. cum. 20s. first pref. stock
units, 297,848 64 p.c. cum. 20s.
second p;ef. stock units and
1,214,814 10s. ords. Reserves
moved ahead £105,508 to
£2,165,200. The last share
issue, and the only issue since
before the war, involved
404,938 ords, a one-for-two
par issue going out in October,
1955.
Freeholds, in at valuation or
cost, declined £112,046 to
£2,676,202 (sale of the Bon
Marche property). Plant, in
at cost less depreciation, rose
£57,440 to £479,404. Mortgage
liability was reduced by
£BO,BOO. Long term liabilities
include £109,246 owed to ven-
dors of Oxford Furnishing,
since satisfied by issue of 8 p.c.
unsecured notes:
Consolidated Figures.
Paid capital—■ 1959. 1960.
Pref. .. £597,848 £597,848
Ord. .. 607,407 607,407
Reserves . . 2,059,692 2,165,200
Outside interests 439,374 460,268
Conv. notes . . 452,938
Long term
liabilities .. 138,854
Mortgage . . 956,100 875,300
Loans, short term
deposits . . —179.47 S
Overdraft . . 855,630 539 390
Creditors* .. 514,008 515,827
Taxp.o.ision .. 91,995 i0.,a.9
Final divs. . . 42,976 49,050
£6,165,030 £6,712,539
Freeholds . . 2,788,248 2,676,202
Plant, fixtures,
leaseholds . . 421,904 479,404
Shares other cos. 1,301 1,301
Stock .. .. 1,053,791 1,368,411
Debtors .. 1,791,106 2,128,698
Cash . . .. 14,552 20,492
Inter-co. balances 34,008 38,031
Intangibles .. 60,000
£6,165,030 £6,712,539
* Included amounts due under h.-p.
agreements and loans and short term
deposits up until and including 1959.
Theoretical working capital
advanced £748.037 to
£2,102,877, setting the current
ratio at an improved 2.5 to 1
(1.9 to 1). Stocks, debtors and
overdraft were all higher, re-
flecting increased business
activity.
Mr G. S. Clark acknow-
ledges that any organisation is
“dependent to a very large
degree on the current econo-
mic conditions of the nation
as a whole.” The “temporary”
dampening of business activity,
reduced consumer spending,
and housing slump will all
take toll of Marcus Clark
profits. But recent expansion,
continued into the current
term, should go a long way
towards offsetting depressive
influences. The co. has re-
cently taken over the mail
order lists of two big depart-
ment stores —one in Sydney,
the other in Melbourne.
Management “will be con-
sistently reviewing locations of
new stores, and opportunities
to purchase existing stores in
areas that have a high popula-
tion growth potential and
where it is considered that a
satisfactory return on invest-
ment can be obtained.”
Group sales for the quarter
ended April 30 last were 5 p.c.
higher than those for the
previous corresponding period.
Trading conditions of the
group during April had shown
“great improvement.”
Meantime the 10s. ords.
fetch 13s. 6d. to return a not
unreasonable 6.7 p.c. The ’65
notes at 235. 3d. yield 6.9 p.c.
Net tangibles, at close of
accounts, weighed up a solid
455. Bd. the ords, £ll 4s. Bd.
the first prefs, and £lO 6s. 2d.
the second prefs.
Moffat-Virtue Ltd
A manufacturer and mer-
chant, catering, primarily,
for needs of the primary pro-
ducer, Moffat-Virtue Ltd turns
out milking machines, power-
generating plant, shearing gear,
pumping and irrigation equip-
ment, etc., in addition to hand-
ling a variety of agency lines.
The co. can obviously blame
the vagaries of commodity
markets and the weather for
many of its troubles ; although
a succession of losses suggests
that other factors beside these
two unpredictables could share
responsibility for the poor
results of recent years.
The latest showing to
December 31, 1960, at £2527,
works out an improvement of
£26,025 over the previous
year’s performance.
Parent and Subsidiary.
r- Dividends Re-
Dec. Loss. Pref. Old. Total, serves.*
31, £ p.c. p.c. £ £
1953.. 17.627 8 Nil 2,000 203,351
Surplus sale assets, £505. . 203,856
Profit.
1954.. 2,335 8 24 8,295 197,596
Surplus sale assets, £576.. 198,472
Loss.
1955.. 425 8 Nil 2,000 196,047
Tax underprovided, £635.. 195,412
Surplus sale assets, £75 . . 195,487
Assets revalued, £24,940.. 220,427
1956.. 18.028 8 Nil 2,000 200,399
Tax underprovided, £25 . . 200,374
Surplus sale assets, £276.. 200,650
Long-service provn., £347.. 200,303
1957. 6,451 8 Nil 2,000 191,852
1958.. 24.320 8 Nil 2,000 165,532
Assets revaluation, £60,935 226,467
From provision losses sub-
sidiary, £72 . . ■ 226,539
1959 .23,498 8 Nil 2,000 201,041
From provision losses sub-
sidiary, £640 201,681
Profit
1960.. 2,527 8 Nil 2,000 202,207
* After deducting intangibles, £4B/8
at Dec, 31, 1960.
The transformation of loss
into profit was due largely to a
22\ p.c. increase in turnover,
plus a small increase in gross
profit margins result of
greater volume in manufac-
turing operations. Interest in
J. A. Prestwich-Virtue Pty
(£67,500 in shares at cost)
remains unchanged and the
investment is proving advan-
tageous. The Queensland sub-
sidiary contributed increased
profits despite drought con-
ditions.
Consolidated net profit was
ascertained after writing-off
£5089 to depreciation (down
£499) and £137,581 (up
£9126) to expenses of adminis-
tration and distribution.
Reserves, net of intangibles,
£4878, rose £1166 to £202,207
The last profit of any con-
sequence was made in 1951,
when the parent earned £55,485
and paid a 10 p.c. ord. div.
Next year net profit fell to
£11,202 (consolidated), and the
div rate was cut to 8 p.c. The
last ord. div. was 2\ p.c., paid
in 1954, when a token £2335


LAST WEEKS!
DCftICTEDKn
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
0
0
PER ANNUM FOR
YEARS
6 OR 10 YEARS
RETAILERS
DISCOUNT
LIMITID
SHINOW 9
0
PER
ANNUM
12 MONTHS
7%
PER
ANNUM
24 MONTHS
Wi%
PER
ANNUM
INTEREST PAYABLE QUARTERLY FREE OF EXCHANGE
Applications accepted only on the application form attached
to the Prospectus which may he obtained from: —
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
• Retailers Discount Limited, 280 Pitt Street, Sydney.
• Bank of New South Wales, ail branches in N.S.W.,
Queensland or A.C.T.
Trustee for Debenture Stock Holders:
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES NOMINEES PTY. LTD.
Underwriting Brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL,
20 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
LIONEL A. McFADYEN & CO.,
20 O'Connell Street Sydney.
Members of Sydney Stock Exchange
RETAILERS DISCOUNT LTD., 280 Pitt Street, Sydney. 8M6206.
Please forward me a Prospectus and Application form.
NAME
ADDRESS
was earned. The 8 p.c. pref.
div. has been maintained
throughout.
During the year agreement
was concluded for partial
manufacture and distribution
of the “Maygrath” grain auger
—this could extend to addi-
tional profitable lines. The
electrical merchandise division,
based on the well-known
“Hawkins” franchise, has been
extended to include agencies
for “Verity” fans, “Best” steam
irons and other items. This
section “continues to be profit-
able and a useful adjunct to
our business.”
The balance-sheet amplifies
the static nature of the Moffat-
Virtue enterprise:
Parent and Subsidiary.
Paid capital—l9sB. 1959. 1960
Pref. .. £25,000 £25,000 £25,000
Ord. .. 251,799 251,799 251,799
Reserves .. 170,409 205,919 207,055
Mortgages. 81,666 80,000 80,000
Overdraft
(parent) 195,504 197,622 198,825
Creditors . 64,620 85,062 103,612
Final div. 1,000
£788,998 £846,402 £866,355
Freeholds . 174,066 235,000 235,000
Plant .. 67,823 62,517 58,153
Shares Prest-
wich-Virtue 67,500 67,500 67,500
Stock .. 411,258 394,159 415,179
Debtors . . 63,438 82,313 85,610
Cash .. 35 35 35
Goodwill.. 4,878 4,878 4,878
£788,998 £846,402 £866,505
Book values of freeholds and
plant are little changed. Stocks
increased, as also debtors,
reflecting stepped-up activity.
Stocks are relatively high (up
£21,020 at £415,179) with over-
draft substantial (£198,829).
The co. may be able to
capitalise on its association
with J. A. Prestwich Industries
of the U.K.—manufacturing a
highly legarded range of air-
cooled engines—and a connec-
tion with Steyr-Daimler-Puch,
of Austria —produces two-
wheel vehicles which are
assembled in Australia —but
the outlook must remain
doubtful.
The 12s. 6d. fully-paid ords.
—there are, all told, 760,000
12s. 6d. ords., plus 25,000 8
p.c. 20s. cum. prefs. —fetched
4s. in recent trading. Net
tangible asset backing runs out
at 225. 6d.
COMPANY NOTES
Motor Credits Ltd
A/Totor Credits Ltd, the
tVI Victorian-registered h.-p.
financier, represented in all
States, is floating an issue oi
£500,000 of registered first-
mortgage debenture stock at
par (£100).
Interest rates range from 5?
p.c. per annum for three
months to 9 p.c. for 10 years.
The offer embraces eurn.
debenture stock with a mini-
mum period of five years and


Positions Vacant
SYDNEY GRAMMAR SCHOOL
1. In September, or earlier if the'appli-
cant is willing to do resident duties,
a master to teach Greek and Latin
up to 4th and sth Year level.
Salary Scale and pensions scheme
will be communicated to applicants
who should write to the Headmaster,
Sydney Grammar School, College
Street, Sydney, stating their quali-
fications, age. experience etc.
2. An Assistant Resident Master for
the Sydney-Grammar School House to
take resident duties is required
forthwith. Full-time employment is
not offered unless the applicant is
also a candidate for the post of
teaching Classics. Applications for
this post should be made to the
Housemaster, Sydney Grammar. School
House, 43 St. Mark’s Road, Randwick.
Adult Education. Workers’ Educa-
tional Association of N.S.W. requires
Secretary for Sydney Region. Salary
to commence at £1750, range to
£2450. Applications close 24tli June.
Full details from General Secretary
W.E.A., 52 Margaret Street, Sydney.
RX 2222.
Missing Persons
Would any persons knowing, the where-
abouts of ROBERT PICKEN STIRLING
formerly of Cairns, Queensland and
Tinaroo, Queensland please communicate
with The Equity Trustees Company
of 472 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
Reference MEJ.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO JOHN HAYDEN.—TAKE NOTICE
that MATHILDA AMY HAYDEN has
filed a petition for divorce No. 32CD
of 1960 on the grounds of your desertion
for three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse. If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney by
Bth August 1961 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from
L. B. FEENEY ,& CO., Solicitors, 16
Barrack Street, Sydney, New South
Wales.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Public Notice
The adjourned meeting of proposed Ivan-
dale No. 6 Co-operative Housing Society
Limited will be held at No. 11 Bank
Street, Rox Hill on Friday 9th June
1961, at 8 p.m. for the following pur-
poses
1. Consideration of the objects of the
Society.
2. Adoption of Rules.
3. Appointment of Directors.
E. F. McPHAIL
Provisional Secretary.
if any “Bulletin” illustration
takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you
a price for the original.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
Established 1862.
Head Office: GEOROE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX (Vice-Chairman),
R. J. VICARS, A. MURRAY JONES, HUGH DIXSON,
D. A. T. DICKINS, K. B. MYERS, A. E. STEPHEN
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of Every Description
J. O. LEWIS, General Manager.
a maximum of 15 years, carry-
ing 8 pc. with compound
interest. The co. has the right
lo retain oversubscription.
The issue is underwritten by
j. B. Were and Son. Proceeds
w ill be used to meet a steady
demand for funds and at the
same time will help finance
maturing loan money.
Chairman A. Coffey antici-
pates that the full year’s profit
io June 30 next should be
sufficient to cover payment of
a 5 pc. final div. on capital
which would maintain the
established rate of 10 p.c. per
annum.
Retailers Acceptance
(Q’ld) Ltd
Retailers Acceptance
(Q'ld.) Ltd, h.-p. financier
with diversified interests extend-
ing to business financing and
loans on security (subsidiary of
Retailers Acceptance Ltd), has
raised £200,000 first mortgage
debentures.
The £250,000 issue opened
just over two months ago, and
directors say subscriptions are
being received “at as fast a
rate as during the last deben-
ture issue which closed over-
subscribed by more than three
times last November.” Majority
of the subscriptions are on a
long-term basis. Maximum in-
terest rate is 9| p.c. for six to
ten years.
The company showed a profit
before tax of £63.752 for the
six months ended December 31,
1960.
OIL AND MINING
Oil Development N.L.
{Ail Development, N.L.,
reports that 17 miles of
reconnaissance seismic survey
were completed during the past
two weeks in the north-western
corner of the co.’s Authority
to Prospect 81-P, covering
19,500 square miles in Central
Queensland. The seismic con-
tractor has advised that a sub-
surface reversal, extending
more than three miles along
the traverse, is evident at a
depth of a few thousand feet,
with its crest about 14 miles
from the west of the traverse.”
This indicates that an artificial
structure suitable for entrap-
ment of oil or gas may be pre-
sent and justifies further work,
which is now in hand to define
the structure.”
The area being surveyed is
said to bear a “similar relation-
ship to the eastern flank of the
Great Artesian Basin as the
Cabawin and Combarngo
areas, about 400 miles to the
south-east, where gas and high-
grade oil have recently been
produced."
Wapet
'IIi/est Australian Petro-
* * leum Pty Ltd reports that
work at the Eneabba drill site is
running to schedule. The camp
has been completed and the
crew has commenced assem-
bling the National 100 rig.
Preliminary survey work for
the proposed marine seismic
operation in the Exmouth Gulf
has been finalised.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 646
Across
I—Black1 —Black going to a drink counter gets a mill offal town
in N.S.W. (13)
7—Kindling an exclamation of the superstitious character
after tempting providence. (9)
10— Dress nothing but a lover of solitude. (5)
11— Plain, unpretentious me among
the haloed. (6)
12 — Sink some hearth equipment. (7)
16 — Irene disguised as a man. (5)
17— Avon Alfio could be fruit-
less. (2, 2,5)
18— Incorrectly filing the cabaret
activity, etc. (5, 4)
19 — Servings of dope in the Colorado
Sessions. (5)
21) —Garden thanks 50 without
teeth. (7)
21 —A funny fellow and I love slow
movement. (6)
24 —Game to be sending love to a
crooner. (5)
26 — Tea for the French tea mistake
in Robespierre's regime. (3, 6)
27 — Treating milk jewellery which
isn't genuine before you
revolt. (12)
Down
1 — Meanly opportunist to keep- up
with Penelope. (10)
2 Weak points giving a reason for
snivelling Esmond with a score
halved by Bradman’s. (8, 7)
3 Telegraphic advice as to my well-
being when berserk. (4)
4 Dexter might display this feature
not to be found in Harvey's
batting. (15)
5 Negative alternative. (3)
6 An interior decorator with busi-
ness approval. (4)
8 — Frighten the venerable out of
control. (9)
9 A red cent, (anagram) (8)
13 — Don't work so hard, dar-
ling? (4, 5)
14 — It's poison to any cricket team
hypocrisy. (8)
15 — They're only worn these days by
those who are out of date —and
squares. (4, 5)
22 What makes a conjunction brass
up? (4)
23 — Carry Teddy. (4)
25 —Pin-up girl of the geisha neigh-
borhood? (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 645


vwww-x -JW/w
iftwr* j
w~*V
signs
-the
times
. . . the increasing interest in financial
matters by all sections of the community.
On Mondays, “The Times” is first on
the agenda for people who want brief,
accurate reports. Read financial news
from overseas, decisions from Canberra,
* ■ ■■ " •- * •*' -
surveys on industry in
THE AUSTRALIAN
SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
AUSTRALIA: per year.
Mail coupon to “Circulation Manager,”
Australian Financial Times,
Box 185 C, G.P.O.,
Melbourne, C. 1, Victoria.
NEW ZEALAND: Air Mail Subscription
Rate £7Jr/- for year
Mail coupon to: Box 965, G.P.O.,
Wellington, New Zealand.
