

The Bulletin
hfg
hfgh
and The Observer
THE
WATERFRONT
JUNGLE
Stored 1b Australia for transmission by post a« a newspaper.
The Short Story
and “The Bulletin 9 ’
Queensland’s
Second Leg
The Basic
Wage Danger


For today’s ‘low look’ roofline . ..
at lower roofing cost
ORB
YSAG
STEEL SHEET ROOFING
m
' • ms
■ Hi
--.S
SK
Sis>S
H
; .
m
m
m
W® 8 ' -
mk
wmmmm®
SSfew>i
*"
" V '' . ::■
«
m
Think of the most attractive homes you have
seen during the past year. Chances are, almost
all of them have had the modem, low-pitched
roofline.
This clean, functional “low look” gives a
dramatic sweep to any home and your archi-
tect will readily agree that Lysaght Steel Sheet
is the ideal material with which to express this
modem trend.
Quickly laid . .. easiest of all to maintain . . .
Lysaght Steel Sheet is now available in styles
to suit every roofing requirement.
t***°**v
«**tt**f
Just published . . . fascinating new guide to the
newest trends in the home design. Send for your
copy today! Fill in and post coupon below.
John Lysaght (Australia) Limited, '
Port Line Building, 50 Young St., Sydney
Please send me, without cost or obligation, the
new Lysaght Portfolio of Low Cost Home Plans,
NAME..
AOORESS.
STATE..
3 TYPES
TO CHOOSE
FROM
CORRUGATED: Lysaght Red
Orb Sheet, made especially
rigid for roofing purposes,
has almost endless applica-
tions in the building industry.
Available in all wanted widths
and lengths; also pre-painted
in aluminium where speedy
finishing is a factor.
FLAT: Essential for forming
guttering, downpipes, etc.;
also widely used for special
roofing purposes and effects.
'KLIP-LOKI New smartly
ribbed, heavily galvanized
Steel Sheet with self-locking
shoulders for flat and near
flat roofing.and wall cladding,
hi cost-saving unbroken
lengths to SO ft.
♦Patent No. 222040
G 1 *r-


The
Bulletin
JULY 15, 1961
Vol. 82
No. 4248
ANSWERS TO
CONTRIBUTORS
L. McC.: As to where else you
might send it, we wouldn't do it
to them. .. . R.C.: Another of these
delightfully humorous occurrences
that obviously never happened. . . .
M.K.: Can't see the exquisite
point of the lubra’s eyes being
“different.” Were they different
from each other, or different from
other people's, and, if so, what did
that purport? .... U.H.: Nothing
new about “Just the Same''....
R.H.: Killing off that poor faithful
little dog for the sake of a bright
idea!... . J.A.: Maybe your client
wrote better in England....
P.H.8.: There is always something
disappointing about the character
who nearly did a crime but didn’t.
R.N.: Such nice handwriting.
. ...A.K.: Such beautiful type-
writing... .F.M.: Don’t go down
the mine, daddy, the seam is
literally worked out. .. . D.J.H.: A
police motor-cycle lying in a bog
and the police didn't know about
it until the last paragraph....
J.S.W.: A bit grim. . . G.D.P.:
“Did he think too much?” Well,
you didn't give him much else to
d0....R.8.: Not bad, but far too
mournful... .J.K.: All dovetailed
into your natty little p10t....
G.A.S.: Dreadful... .J.McC.: Six
stories in six different styles, and
none of them yours. ... R. 8.:
“Overcoat” not as good as
“Journey,” which was not good
enough. ... R.C.: “Melinda” idea
was more treacly than the one
about the beloved who turns up
in the last sentence to be a dog or
a cat. . . .H.E.M.: Concocted....
8.C.: Outworn outback cliches....
P.F.: Doesn’t make a story....
E. 0.: Why do beginners always
begin with the slick racing bet, the
wife murder, or the trip to Heaven?
. ...E.C.: Your coy subtlety....
M.K.: The one is too astonishing,
the other is not. .. . J.McG.: Oh,
pooh. . . .R.D.M.: It frightened us.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street,
Sydney; Box 2521; Phone: 27 5971
IN THIS ISSUE
Violence and Thuggery
I T is easy to understand why the Seamen’s Union became a militant union
in the last century when seamen’s conditions were often unfit for
animals and the men were underpaid, overworked and generally treated
with cynical brutality by all-powerful shipowners. Times, of course, have
changed. Today, single or two-berth cabins are standard for crew members
on the Australian coast, and where ships cannot be altered to conform with
modern accommodation standards, provision is made for a “hard living”
allowance. Even crew attendants —the lowest-paid adult members of the
union—can earn about £ 1430 a year.
The old militant tradition is still strong, but it is now fully ex-
ploited by the Communist leaders of the union who no hunger pay even lip-
service to the idea that a union exists to serve its members. Probably no
other union has had so many stoppages for “political”, that is Communist,
reasons at such a heavy cost to the rank and file. But the' Communist policy
goes beyond taking money from the seamen’s pockets, it also destroys
seamen’s jobs by crippling and destroying the coastal shipping industry.
To some people it is a mystery how the Communists manage to keep
control of this small union of 4000 members. For this Reason we are pub-
lishing in this issue the first in a series of articles by Alan Reid which pretty
well clear up any of the mystery. He tells a story of violence and thuggery.
Known gunmen are mentioned, intimidation commonplace. It means that
although under the law, a union can have a court-controlled ballot for
the election of its officers if enough members sign a petition asking for
one, there will never be enough men to sign such a petition in the
Seamen’s Union because of intimidation. Communist officials can only be
removed from unions like the Seamen’s Union by some further alteration
in the law. Just as shareholders needed a Companies Act to protect their
interests, so some unionists need a sort of Companies Act for unions which
will protect their interests against unscrupulous union bosses and vest
power fully in the members’ hands. No one can have any excuse for
illusions about Communist techniques in unions after reading this article.
Alan Reid’s primary source is William Francis Phillips, a disgruntled
seaman who freely admits he has grievances against the Seamen’s Union.
To those who are sceptical about the value of a disgruntled man as a source,
we emphasise that Reid has checked all the details of Phillips’s story in
court records, committee minutes, official letters, union journals, including
the “Seamen’s Journal,” which gives the Communist version of many of the
incidents Phillips describes, and he has a number of statutory declarations
from witnesses of various incidents. In any case a reader must be pretty
naive if he imagines one can ever get the facts about such organisations as
the Seamen’s Union unless one finds such disgruntled men.
Alan Reid has exposed the practices of the Seamen’s Union before. He
was, for example, the first to publicise the indemnity payments arrange-
ment, by which maritime unions accepted money from shipowners to allow
Australian ships purchased abroad to leave Australian ports with cheap-
wage, non-Australian crews. After his disclosures the A.C.T.U. banned the
practice. A Senate Select Committee which was established to examine the
affair, also confirmed Reid’s charges.


This Australia
POLITICAL POINTS
Storm over
Latrobe Valley
By MUGGA
ALBERT McNOLTY
Investigator
IN the Latrobe Valley “Victoria’s
Ruhr” the growing electricity and
briquette industries based on brown
coal have made the Central Gippsland
Trades and Labor Council one of
the most important regional labor organi-
sations in the State. It has also become
the scene of one of the most bitter politi-
cal conflicts seen in the Labor movement
since the 1955 A.L.P split, with reper-
cussions booming through the draughty
corridors of the Melbourne Trades Hall.
Up to April, 1960, the Gippsland T.L.C.
was under Right-wing anti-Communist
control. In that a group of Mel-
bourne T.H.C. officials, including Mr
Albert McNolty, and T.H.C. secretary
J. V. Stout, went to Yallourn to investi-
gate complaints made by Left-wing dele-
gates to the Gippsland T.L.C. Some high-
power organising work followed, as a
result of which a unity-ticket team of
Communists and A.L.P. members loyal
to Mr Stout and Mr McNolty won the
council's executive by 48 votes to 44.
This month, Mr Stout has again been
asked to investigate the affairs of the
Gippsland T.L.C., but this time his inter-
vention is being sought by a group of
Right-wing unions, including the Federa-
ted Ironworkers’ Association and unions
covering clerks and hospital workers.
The request is backed by a detailed list
of alleged malpractices committed by the
Left-wing executive, submitted by the
Ironworkers’ Association.
There are charges that Left-wing unions
have put in false returns of membership
in the area in order to boost their dele-
gate strength on the council. It is claimed
that the council’s returning officer, Mr
Stan Crouch, who had held the position
for five years, was suspended when he
attempted to investigate credentials of
certain delegates. Other charges relate to
“ring-in” delegates—the Ironworkers say
that a Mr T. Gilhooley, an obedient
A.L.P. member of the Melbourne suburb
of Oakleigh, was credentialled to repre-
sent the Miscellaneous Workers’ Union
(which has six members in the Gippsland
region) while another delegate was en-
rolled to represent the Theatrical Em-
ployees’ Union (which also has six).
The Ironworkers’ document also alleges
falsification of council minutes and a
whole series of malpractices in the con-
duct of its meetings. Dates and names
are given and it adds up to a picture of
pretty rough tactics being used by the
T.L.C. executive in order to maintain and
strengthen its control of the council.
But this was nothing compared to the
storm which broke after the Iron-
workers lodged their complaint with the
Melbourne Trades Hall. In a scene of
wild disorder, the president of the Gipps-
land T.L.C., Mr H. Hodgkin, suspended
28 delegates, switched off the lights and
called for the police to remove the
suspendees. The ejected delegates repre-
sented 11 unions—more than half those
in the council—who had protested against
confirmation of the minutes. Mr Hodgkin
claimed that they were suspended for dis-
obeying his direction to resume their
seats. The secretary of the local Iron-
workers’ branch, Mr J. Hughes, com-
mented : “Tonight’s shambles climaxed
12 months of unconstitutional conduct by
the present controllers of the council.”
If the suspended delegates are not re-
admitted, then the council is certainly a
shambles, since at least 2000 workers in
the area will be denied representation,
Mr Hodgkin, an English migrant, claimed
that he had “tried to use peaceful methods
to overcome this trouble. But the action
of the groupers has given me no alterna-
tive but to suspend them.” From Mr
Hughes came the comment: “The whole
thing must come to a head soon because
nobody takes any notice of the council.
Before the present executive got control,
the council was an important party in
discussions between the S.E.C., all the
big Latrobe Valley industries and the
unions.”
Since then Mr Stout has promised to
make a “thorough investigation” of the
Gippsland Council. It may be significant
that the terms in which he made this
promise to the Melbourne Trades Hall
Council drew an objection from a dele-
gate of the Clerks’ Union, but earned him
a tribute from the Communist secretary
of the Railways’ Union, Mr J. J. Brown.
It would not be the first time that Mr
Stout has masked an iron fist in a velvet
glove.
LAW
Juries on Trial
FROM PETER KELLY IN SYDNEY
One paper succeeded in irritating
the lawyers at the Law Council
of Australia’s Twelfth Legal Convention.
This was “Speedier Justice (And Trial
by Ambush)” given by the Hon. Mr
Justice Wallace, of the Supreme Court
of New South Wales. Mr Justice Wallace
told the 400-odd lawyers in Sydney’s
Conservatorium that the jury system in
civil actions ought either be abolished
or seriously modified. “It is illogical
and inefficient to apply 1844 solutions
to 1961 problems.”
The 1961 “problems” were the number
of civil cases coming (or not coming)
before the N.S.W. Supreme Court, and
the time-lag involved between the listing
of the case to the actual hearing. Over
96 per cent, of Common Law cases listed
for trial before Supreme Court judges
were “running-down” (or accident) cases •
and a period of up to two years often
elapsed before they were heard. This
time-lag was not due to the number of
judges: over the last 14 years the number
had increased from 11 to 25. The
reasons were the jury system and belated
settlements.
The arguments the judge offered
against juries were mainly expedient:
“the jury system is notoriously time-
wasting and expensive”; with the inevit-
able increase in accident cases the time-
lag will become greater ; the number of
the community serving in juries “erodes
the State’s manpower appreciably”; and
because the defendants in accident cases
were mainly insurance companies “it
simply ought not in an enlightened com-
munity be allowed to continue.” Mr
Justice Wallace also suggested a pre-trial
procedure, similar to that operating in
America to “speed-up justice.”
In attacking Mr Justice Wallace’s paper
a Victorian, Mr Gillard, Q.C., pointed
out that as “one mighty” defendant was
the N.S.W. Government Insurance Office,
which handled over 80 per cent, of the
cases, it ought to be a simple matter to
stop it from wasting the judges’ time with
belated settlements. Further, as the judge
had stated that he had experienced as
many as four 10.30 a.m. settlements
(after the jury had been empanelled) in
six successive working days, thus finish-
ing the work for the day, more than one


case a day should be listed for hearing
before Supreme Court judges, as was the
practice in Victoria. He also defended
jury verdicts as a useful check on
judges. (Mr Justice Wallace had said
that in only three cases out of 50-odd
had he disagreed with the juries’ verdicts,
and one of these had been due to the
forceful advocacy of Mr John Kerr.)
Mr John Kerr, Q.C., speaking on
behalf of the Bar Association, said that
the jury system must be retained. He
pointed out that the excessive time-lag
was due both to the increase in litiga-
tion and unsatisfactory court administra-
tive arrangements.
Although the Lord Chief Justice of
England, Lord Parker, said he “un-
ashamedly” believed that a judge was
better in assessing damages than a jury,
the Chief Justice of the United States,
Mr Earl Warren, who flew belatedly into
Sydney for the convention, added his
weight to the “jury system.”
SCIENCE
The Jorgenson
Mystery
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
R. HUTCHINSON
“Inconclusive results”
TI7HEN Mr Les Helmers Jorgenson quit
** his research post at the King
Edward Memorial Hospital in Perth last
month he left behind a series of personal
and professional mysteries that may
never be solved. For the last two years
he had been conducting research into
the cause of miscarriages in pregnancy,
an activity that had received a good deal
of publicity and financial support from
the King Edward Hospital authorities.
Most of the publicity stemmed from
the fact that he needed about 90 male
frogs every day for his method of esti-
mating the -balance of hormones in
difficult pregnancies, which he claimed
was swifter and more accurate than
normal tests. He paid 6d. for each male
frog, but the supply at this price was
not enough and the South Perth Zoo
agreed to build a special pond holding
about 5000 frogs to give him a ready
supply.
He was provided with funds from the
£60,000 Queen Elizabeth II Coronation
Gift Trust Fund and in April this year
was told that he could continue his
research for Tit least another year. He
reported to the fund that he had saved
all difficult pregnancies in a test group
of 106 patients whose previous obstetrical
histories had numbered 220 miscarriages.
Last month he suddenly left the State,
and his departure was closely followed
by a statement from Health Minister
Hutchinson that he had admitted to a
fake claim to be a doctor of science
from London University. Mr Hutchin-
son said Jorgenson's work had not been
finalised and results so far were incon-
elusive. Further investigations of his
pregnancy tests were being considered
by the hospital board. He did not treat
any patients as a medical practitioner
and merely performed laboratory tests
°n behalf of doctors.
Jorgenson was hardly clear of the State
when Perth gynaecologists began dis-
crediting his work. Some said they had
doubted the value of his work for many
months, and one said the tests he used
were as old as the hills. Only one
specialist said he had complete faith in
Jorgenson’s work: “He had a most
promising line of research,’’ he said. “It
would appear to me immaterial what the
man’s qualifications were. After all, a
technician is quite capable of carrying
out a piece of research work under
medical supervision.”
There the controversy rested until
Jorgenson wrote a letter to a Perth
newspaper saying that he held a doctorate
from London University under another
name, but he would not reveal that name
because to do so would uncover an
appalling sequence of tragic events in
his former life which could affect his
family even now
“In the circumstances 1 felt, and still
feel, justified in witholding this informa-
tion. I considered that the work itself
indicated mv academic level,” he said.
“I was most anxious to complete the
work. I had all the co-operation neces-
sary from doctors and patients, but in
the final balance the debatable point of
qualifications completely outweighed any
increased hope in women for mother-
hood and living babies.” He reaffirmed
the revolutionary nature of his work and
claimed his technique had not been used
in any other part of the world.
Professor Gordon King, Dean of the
Medical Faculty at the University of
W.A., who interviewed Jorgenson on his
qualifications before the researcher
agreed to resign, had the last word: “He
refused to produce any evidence of his
degree under his present name or to
allow us to make any approach under
the other name,” the professor stated,
“I think that, without any evidence of
his qualifications which he stated he
possessed the position becomes—as you
see—a very difficult one.”
ABORIGINES
The Caning of
Jim Jacko
FROM JOHN HIGGINS IN QUEENSLAND
r T''HE first “open inquiry” ordered by
Queensland’s Nicklin-Morris coali-
tion Government during its four-year
term of office has ended, and the public
is anxiously waiting to hear the findings.
The inquiry was into the caning of abo-
riginal Jimmy by Lutheran Pastor
E. C. Kernick, the mission superintendent
at Hopevale, 32 miles north-west of
Cooktown. Queenslanders chuckled when
invited to attend the inquiry: The only
way to get to the mission is by one of
Cooktown's two taxis—and once you get
there there is no accommodation avail-
able at the mission headquarters, while
special permission has to be obtained to
camp on the reserve. There are no
phones, of course, the mission's only
contact with the outside world being by
pedal wireless.
Jim Jacko, it had absconded
with a 16-year-oj' ;'aboriginal girl named
Gertie Simons, v ’’Tout so much as by-
your-leave to he parents. There was .a
tribal to-do about it, which resulted in
some sort of a kangaroo court being con-
ducted by Pastor Kernick in association
with tribal elders when the errant couple
returned from their primitive walkabout-
honeymoon. Three whites and two native
elders were present when Pastor Kernick
imposed a 12-stroke caning on Jacko, and
delivered the punishment himself. “I sup-
pose you could call it a sort of a tribal
court,” Pastor Kernick told magistrate
J. O. Lee, of Cooktown, who conducted
the inquiry. “I was prompted by my deep
concern for native people, and by my
belief that young native girls should have
equal rights for protection as white girls.”
Police Sergeant Robert Hagarty told
Mr Lee that Jim Jacko was unmarked
by the caning, and added that Jacko had
told him that he was glad it was the
Pastor who had done the job, not his
tribal elders. In all, Jacko, he said had
received 12 strokes across the shoulders.
And what of Gertie Simons? Full-
blood aboriginal Harry Costello told the
Court that he and three other tribal
elders were present when she also got the
cane, this time from her father. After
the caning, said Mr Costello, he had cut
her hair from her bead.
Native Affairs Department officials
seem to think that Pastor Kernick was
justified in his action, but spokesmen for
the Federal Council for Aboriginal
Advancement take a dissenting view.
Naturally, as part of their Woo-the-
Aborigines campaign, the Communist
party has taken the case up in a big way.
In the course of time, Mr Lee’s report
will be handed to Native Affairs Director
Mr Con O’Leary, and then to Dr Noble.
The whitewashing of Pastor Kernick if.
tipped as a foregone conclusion.


SPORT
The Boxing
Businessman
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
JIMMY CARRUTHERS
He wants £10,000
“T shall never don the gloves again,”
A said Jimmy Carrdthers, who had
risen from a Sydney Police Boys’ Club
to be world champion bantamweight
fighter, when he retired on May 17, 1954.
“This is not an overnight decision as you
might think, but a planned event in my
life.” Announcing his return seven years
later he says, “But this will be no run-
of-the-mill reappearance. lam absolutely
sure I’ll give a good performance.”
Jimmy Carruthers retired in Sydney
from boxing at the ripe old age of 24.
As he said himself a-t the time, he was
at his peak, physim% and financially.
“1 have made a kv /: °«f money.” When
he bought a housj>f” e >r his parents at
Bankstown, anothei }o or his family at
Waverley, and “The* Bells” hotel at
Woolloomooloo, no one doubted his
claim that “boxing has purely been a
business” to him.
Between 1950 when he turned pro-
fessional and 1954 when he retired, his
gross earnings were estimated at £64,500
while his net earnings were about
£30,000. But he never planned to
be in the fight game forever: when
he defeated Vic Toweel to gain his
world title in the first round in South
Africa he said he knew then that he
would only defend it “three or four
times at the very most” —and receive
big gate money for doing so On the
eve of retiring he said that the boxing
game was not all sunshine and it needed
a lot of hard work, grind, sweat and
blood not only to reach the top of the
ladder, “but to stay there.” He went
into the hotel business —though he later
sold “The Bells” in Woolloomooloo (“We
made a comfortable living and did well”)
because the liquor hours were extended
soon after he took over and “there is no
future in working around the clock.”
The “comeback” fighter now has several
acres of land at Nambucca Heads and
his assets are conservatively estimated at
£20,000. Why has he taken a step which
has proved too difficult for fighters like
Ron Richards and Ambrose Palmer?
Carruthers blames it all on Mr Menzies’
credit squeeze. Carruthers wants £lO,OOO
more to build a luxury “motel-boater
at Nambucca Heads and he refuses to
pay a high rate of interest to get it. He
estimates that he can earn the £lO,OOO
(interest-free) in five fights, although
Henry Miller, the manager of the Sydney
Stadium, says three. His wife Myra
(whose pigtails he pulled when she was
nine and he was 11) was at first reluctant
to agree to the comeback but now she
is “right behind him.” So also are most
of the Sydney boxing fraternity who say
the fight game badly needs an injection
like this to get it out of its present
doldrums.
The first step he will have to climb
over to earn his goal of £lO,OOO is
expected to be the Italian Pavisoni or
Wally Taylor, at Sydney Stadium in
about four weeks time. Carruthers must
regret not having accepted a £20,000
guarantee comeback offer made to him
shortly after his retirement, but if con-
fidence is any guide Carruthers should
succeed now. Using a favorite phrase
of his he says, “It won’t be a run-of-the-
mill comeback, followed by a pitiful
immediate fade-out.”
ENTERTAINMENT
Ma Dwyer Moves On
FROM A HOBART CORRESPONDENT
Sailors reaching Hobart today will find
no haven when they stumble over
the stones of Salamanca Place to Ma
Dwyer’s “Blue House.” Gone with the
sails and the salt-horse, gone to Davy
Jones’s locker, is Elizabeth Dwyer’s
Esplanade Hotel, the last of the old
whaling hotels. The old stones remain,
but the Esplanade’s life departed on June
30 when first the beer, and then the
licence, ran out.
Ma Dwyer’s, Tasmania’s most colorful
pub and probably best known of all Aus-
tralian bars among sailors of the world,
had been serving seafarers for 70 years.
More recently it had become a stopping-
place for the more intrepid sightseers
doing the town. Perhaps it was saved
only by its arbitrary closing from the
ignominy of inclusion in conducted tours.
Visitors were seldom disappointed.
There was usually a fight-—though a short
one: Ma ruled with a rod of iron and
has been known to quell two giant
battlers and return them to Castray
Esplanade. But the proverbial heart of
gold was there and showed to the end,
when Licensing Inspector A. C. O’Neal
found a woman and a number of children
in the place. They'd been evicted from
their home—and Ma had put them up,
“on the house.”
Inspector O'Neal, telling the Licensing
Court that bedrooms were “in shocking
condition,” added, “in fairness to Mrs
Dwyer,” that standards of cleanliness in
the old pub had always been very good.
He agreed with Mr R. M. Clarke (for
Mrs Dwyer) that the hotel was unique
and that it had probably been the most
difficult house in Tasmania to manage.
But he had to oppose renewal of its
licence because. the premises did not
comply with minimum standards, Mrs
Dwyer had 19 convictions for licensing
breaches and one for unlawful posses-
sion ; 17 offences, including robberies
with violence, had been committed on
the premises since 1959, and the barmen
included known criminals ; Mrs Dwyer
had failed to conduct the hotel in “a quiet
and peaceful manner” and “maintain and
preserve good order therein.”
The Inspector agreed that Mrs Dwyer
had made a “wonderful improvement”
to the premises after his visit, but the
structure could no* be brought up to
minimum standards. Mr Clarke sub-
mitted that it was unfair to blame Mrs
Dwyer because she could not keep the
criminal element away ; the police also
had been unable to do so. Mrs Dwyer
had not lost any of “the skill or charm"
she had shown in running the hotel, and
if it were closed its customers would
merely change their venue, not their
habits. But in the end the Chairman of
the Court, Colonel A. P. Crisp, refused
to renew the licence.
Mrs Dwyer came to the Esplanade with
her husband 20 years ago. She took over
the licence in 1945, several years before
his death. She had five convictions in
1951-56. They snowballed into 15 in the
next five years.
The end was quiet. The beer ran out
12 hours before the licence, and Ma
bolted the doors. Behind them, she spoke
to reporters about her pub, “known the
’ole world over.” She’d heard, she said,
that customers planned to dismantle it
for souvenirs, and she didn’t want a
riot. Neither did she “want to cause
the police any real trouble.”
On the table beside her were what she
feelingly referred to as “floral tributes,’
sent by friends in her affliction. There
was a great pile of telegrams, too, and
a sailor telephoned her from New
Zealand —“a real nice thought, and one I
appreciate.”
Outside, scores of cars converged on
the pub, and by normal closing time
hundreds of people were standing in the
street. When Ma appeared at an uppe l
window they cheered and sang “For Shes


a Jolly Good Fellow.** Ma remained
at the window for more than an hour,
bathed in the lights of the cars blocking
Salamanca Place, but she didn’t reopen
those hospitable doors. Ma Dwyer was
not going to break the licensing laws on
her last night.
ATV crew joined the reporters. They
went away empty-handed. Ma, they
found, just didn’t go smoothly on the
sound-track. That’s what comes from
running a sailors’ pub.
The Blue House will become a store-
house. Ma is off to the West Coast,
probably to accept one of the many offers
of a job in a miners’ pub. But neither
she nor “Ma’s” will be the same without
the sailors around.
LITERATURE
Memo for Ern
FROM AN ADELAIDE CORRESPONDENT
“pRN Malley’s Poems” must be the
world’s loneliest banned book. It
is freely allowed in Eire, Spain, Bulgaria
the U.S.S.R., even in Victoria and
Queensland! Only South Australia
grimly resists the moral corruptions of
Ern Malley’s strange personal saga.
It was 16 years ago that Magistrate
L. E. Clarke in an Adelaide Police Court
decided that Ern’s poems were “indecent
advertisements” in terms of the Police
Offences Act. Last week the representa-
tive of the Lansdowne Press, which has
just republished the poems, visited the
South Australian Attorney-General, Mr
C. D. Rowe, with some confidence. The
South Australian law has in recent years
been liberalised by allowing a “pursuit
of literature” defence against obscenity
charges and it seemed most unlikely that
the poems could be considered actionable
these days. The puzzled Attorney-
General referred the poems to the Crown
Solicitor's office. The memo that came
back, showing a sturdy fixity of purpose
on the part of the legal dignitaries, in-
formed the Attorney-General that these
poems were found indecent in 1944 and
that he should give no undertakings what-
soever to anyone that they will not be
prosecuted if distributed in South Aus-
tralia in 1961!
Some South Australians will consider
the Crown Solicitor’s rigidity of purpose
quite commendable. But they are be-
fuddled by the inconsistency of it all.
For 16 years, despite the court case,
the South Australian public library has
made the Ern Malley poems available
to any reader free of charge and at
least on 2000 occasions in the last 16
years. The day after the Crown Solicitor’s
memo a visit to the public library re-
vealed that the commonsense policy
remains unchanged. But it is unlikely
that South Australian bookshops will
stock the Ern Malley edition.
Taner
"IT'S GREAT TO HAVE FRIENDS IN HIGH PLACES"


DEVELOPMENT
Back to
the Gougers
FROM K. G. WILLEY IN DARWIN
AL McDONALD
"Grub-stake the prospectors”
It is a truism among miners in the north
that the real bonanzas are invariably
found by the small man —the gouger.
Veteran prospector Jack White stumbled
on Rum Jungle uranium field while hunt-
ing a wallaby. Jack Noble discovered
Noble's Nob, near Tennant Creek—
among the richest producing goldmines
in Australia today —and gave it away to
a friend, who was down on his luck. Joe
Kaminski and a partner named Bonney
found Tennant’s great Peko copper lode,
realised £2500 out of .the first crushing
and drank their way through the lot
in a massive, week-long binge. United
Uranium, with its deposits at El Sherana
and South Alligator, or the bauxite at
Gove on the north-eastern corner of
Arnhem Land ... all the giants of the
Territory mining industry owe their
existence and present or potential pros-
perity to the individual prospector who
was prepared to live hard in hard country,
on the gamble of one day striking it rich.
The companies are fully exploring and
developing their leases, but who is there
today to go out into the desert and find
new fields?
Jack Noble is too old. Jack White is
sick. Other old-timers are dead—and the
young men who might have taken their
place have good jobs in town. They
either are not prepared, or cannot afford,
to face the rigors of prospecting.
Len Purkiss, an old miner and now
Legislative Councillor for Barkly—which
includes the Tennant Creek field —points
to the terrific rise in costs. Before the war
all a man needed was hammer and tap
and a few sticks of dynamite. Working
with this simple equipment, gougers at
Tennant kept three Government batteries
going day and night before the war.
Now they must go deeper into the
ground ; they need compressors and other
plant—and prices of minerals—partic-
larly gold—have not kept pace with costs.
Recently Mr Purkiss urged the Govern-
ment to make more money available to
subsidise prospectors, to set up an equip-
ment pool and hire expensive mining
plant out to fossickers and gougers, to
establish an explosives magazine and an
assay laboratory in Darwin or “some
central point” elsewhere in the Territory.
(High cost of imported explosives and
necessity to send all minerals interstate
for assay have been two of the really big
deterrents to prospecting in the North),
to make access roads to known mineral
fields, and to pay bounties for big finds.
Government bounties in the past
sparked tremendous results. Jack White
was awarded £25,000 for finding Rum
Jungle, which has since produced more
than £5O million in uranium wealth.
Rewards were paid at Mary Kathleen
across the Queensland border and other
places. Foi maybe £lOO,OOO handed out
to prospectors the country has benefited
by £lOO million in a few years. But
today there are no bounties and very little
aid. Inevitably, therefore, there are few
prospectors. All the present mines, even
the richest, are a wasting asset. Although
mining now equals cattle as a money-
spinner (it was worth £Bm. last year), the
industry faces creeping paralysis. In
many parts of the Territory the hope is
that agricultural and other industries
will follow mining development and
take over when the mines peter out.
But this is not likely to be the story
in a centre like Tennant Creek, where the
Territory’s third-biggest town (1500
people) is surrounded by near-desert,
which, even after 30 years, cannot produce
enough bore water yet for a reticulation
system. The mines around Tennant are
among the richest in the country, but Mr
Purkiss warns: “We are reaching the
stage where, without new ore bodies being
©pened up, we must eventually start to
decline.”
Prospectors themselves have said in
recent years that Government batteries at
various places in the Top End, where tin
is known to exist in vast quantities, would
bring hundreds of gougers back to the
industry. A huge area south of Darwin,
extending from Fountain Head to Alliga-
tor River and down to the Edith River,
holds many small but rich pockets of tin.
With world demand constant and the
price now at almost £l2OO (Aust.) a ton,
the Territory has a chance to cash in.
When the Government announced it
would set up a treatment plant at Mount
Wells, this drew many prospectors back
to the area. But the president of the
Northern Territory Prospectors’ Associa-
tion, Mr Paddy Carroll, complained this
week that although they had tons of ore
at grass they could do nothing with it
because of delays in setting up the Mt.
Wells battery. Mr Carroll, who estimates
that with the battery the field could
support possibly 200 men, says: “The
delays, are a great pity. At present tin
prices an average prospector using only
hand tools could comfortably make £5O
a week.”
But Mr A 1 McDonald, president of the
Tennant Creek Prospectors’ Association,
a former professional fighter and a gouger
who has taken £lOO,OOO worth of gold
from the Tennant field, is now in Darwin
for talks with the Administrator, Mr R.
Nott He wants the Government to
grub-stake prospectors up to £lO a week
and provide them with compressors and
other gear repayable on 10 per cent, of
net earnings over a long term. If this
is done and the prospectors go out again,
A 1 McDonald, Len Purkiss and others
like them are confident another major
strike in the Territory would follow within
a few years—possibly within months.
HEALTH
The Asthma Probe
FROM A QUEENSLAND CORRESPONDENT
A sthma is an increasing threat to
Queenslanders: it took 80 lives last
year and in Brisbane three times more
asthma-sufferers than 12 years ago were
admitted to the children’s hospital. A
survey of one school showed that 5 per
cent, of the pupils were sufferers.
A 62-year-old, quiet-spoken, bespec-
tacled Queensland scientist has opened
a campaign against the disease. He is
Dr E. H. Derrick who takes over as
Director of the Queensland Institute of
Medical Research next month.
Dr Derrick made national news in
1937 when he first described Q-Fever,
the mysterious ailment that affected
people, such as abattoir workers, shearers,
dairyfarmers, who were in close contact
with cattle and sheep. He is also well
known in medical circles for his treatises
on various tropical diseases. Dr Derrick
displays a scientific reluctance on the
whys and wherefores of asthma: “I’ve
got a lot of theories, but they have to
be tested thoroughly.” He says, however,
that asthma is definitely an allergy com-
plaint— caused by intense individual
reaction to certain substances, such as
some pollens or household dust, etc.
Climate, he thinks, is a secondary factor
—geography providing a closer clue.
Has smog anything to do with the
recent increase in the disease? Dr
Derrick thinks it could play its part in
forming bigger concentrates of the
allergic substances which cause asthma.
Dr Derrick may provide an answer to
asthma in a few years, but he says that
even now there are excellent drugs avail-
able for its relief and proved preventive
measures. AH the same, anyone who
knows the frightening breathtaking
allergy hopes the Q-Doctor will become
the A-Doctor.


LOCAL OPTIONS
Drink
and the Devil
FROM AN ADELAIDE CORRESPONDENT
SIR THOMAS PLAYFORD
A non-drinker
Fighting a stern rearguard action in
the recent campaign for new hotel
licences, the Rev. H. Dunkin and Mr
Graham Carter, secretary of the Com-
bined Churches Temperance Committee,
bought advertising space in Adelaide
suburban papers to make this claim:
“1 am not going to burden you with
statistics, for you know that the majority
of road accidents are attributed to drink,
you know well that crime, unnatural
behavior, juvenile problems, teenage
gangs are attributed to drink ; be wise ;
we do not want another outlet where this
influence can win more votes, vote NO.”
It was not made clear whether the
inclusion of “teenage gangs” meant the
campaign was also against milk bars,
but the advertisement touched off the
usual crop of anonymous letters to the
press.
For instance, “Be Careful,” Plympton,
found the whole question to be a plot
for “building up the already colossal
profits of the brewing interests. Human
values have no significance.’ All this
prompted the secretary of the S.A. Wine
and Spirit Merchants Association to
point out that “there are many factors
other than drunken driving which add
to the road toll,’ and to quote a recent
statement by Queensland's Government
Medical Officer, Dr G. Hayes, to the
effect that any normal, sensible man
should be able to absorb two or three
noggins without impairing his driving
skill.
The general public showed little in-
terest in this academic debate and went
on buying its drinks as usual within the
somewhat restricted limits of legal
trading hours. (In common with Vic-
toria, S.A. is now the last of the States
which insists on closing its hotels at
6 p.m., as the managing director of the
S.A. Brewing Company, Mr Roland E.
Jacobs, pointed out to the annual general
meeting of shareholders at this period.)
Mr Jacobs also said that he felt some
more up-to-date method should be
adopted for determining the public’s
liq u o r requirements than the “out-
moded’’ local option polls. This quaint
system robs the Licensing Court of any
power to issue new licences to hotels,
wine bars or storekeepers wanting to
sell wines or spirits until a miniature
referendum has been held in the locality
concerned. According to some forgotten
superstition such polls can be held only
after a petition has been presented to
the State Governor during the month
of March —and then only once every
three years.
The promoter, who must then put up
£5O, has to appeal to the voter in the
local option district concerned, which
corresponds to the subdivision of a
State electorate. Since voting is not com-
pulsory, more money has to be laid out
in advertising and other appeals. This
likewise stirs the temperance bodies into
a three-yearly flurry of activity. They
were particularly busy in June this year,
because the rapid expansion of suburban
Adelaide, as well as country develop-
ment, had conjured up appeals for new
licences in 21 separate areas. The S.A.
Brewing Company alone has plans to
build and lease five new hotels valued
at nearly £1,000,000.
Local option polls also have some
curious traps. If you fail to secure a
quorum for the petition —the signatures
of 500 electors or one-tenth of the total
enrolled, whichever is the smaller —you
may not even “humbly pray” to the
Governor to permit the poll to take
place three months later. The ballot-
paper must then ask this question: “Are
you in favor of a reduction (or increase)
in the number of (state type) licences by
(state the number by which it is pro-
posed to reduce or increase).” If there
has been more than one petitioner in
any area, the differing numbers applied
for must be set out in separate questions.
If voters then decide on an increase
in licences, the Licensing Court examines
the claims of each applicant and allots
the permits as it thinks lit. This some-
times means that the one who made the
original petition and paid for the poll
loses out to a later applicant who has
simply taken advantage of the situation.
Small wonder the final results of last
week’s polls have created general con-
fusion. Voters rejected four applications
for new hotels., approved seven (includ-
ing three out of the S.A. Brewing Com-
pany's five), approved ten new club
licences and rejected all live claims by
storekeepers, who had no well-endowed
organisation to back their campaigns.
General opinion V that it would be
more efficient to giw me S.A. Licensing
Court power to decide these issues, as
similar bodies do in other States.
Advocating this, Mr Jacobs went even
further by announcing through his share-
holders’ meeting that S.A.’s trading hours
as a whole were overdue for reform.
The State, he said, was now almost alone
in demonstrating its backwardness by
perpetuating the “six o'clock swill’ long
ago discarded by New South Wales,
Queensland, Tasmania, W.A. and the
N.T. Even Premier Playford, a non-
drinker, has recently had to concede a
point by extending the time limit for
serving wines in licensed restaurants
from 9 p.m. to 10, with 30 minutes grace
to finish your bottle.


WORLD FAMOUS
N
y
RIFLES AND GUNS
The “Hornet” smallbore rifle for medium game—rabbits,
hares, roos. Easy to handle safety lock even when a
telescopic sight is mounted.
BRNO ZIOI 465 .22/36 Cal.
£4B/-/-
Exported l>y Oinnipol Ltd.
Praha, Czechoslovakia
*yEOEp
Is Hie result of many years’ study of the require-
ments of expert hunters. The right rifle for
shooting pigs, roos., buffaloes, crocodiles, wild
camels, etc.
BRNO ZG 47 .270 Cal,
£79/2/6
Sole Australian Distributors
GCLLIN & CO. LTD.
SYDNEY - MELBOURNE BRISBANE - ADELAIDE PERTH
Rifles that every Sportsman
will be proud to own
BRNO 2 DELUXE ZKM 452 .22
BOLT ACTION REPEATING
£37/10/-
For those who are
most discriminate
• Precise shooting • Light to carry (0.5 lbs.)
• A rifle that embodies all the privileges ot tradi-
tion and progress.
BRNO ZKM 581
AUTOMATIC .22
£3B/10/-
An automatic smallbore rifle with easily acces-
sible parts for cleaning. Its accuracy and
reliability make it ideal for shooting quick-
moving small game.
BRNO INFORMATION CENTRE
GOLLIN & CO. LTD., 50 Clarence St., SYDNEY.
Please send me complete details of Model ZKM 452 Q
ZKM 581 Q ZKM 465 Q ZG 41 Q
(Tick in applicable square)
NAME
\ DDRESS
S.B. 12/7.
FINANCE
Protecting
Moneylenders
FROM J. MAYHEW IN SYDNEY
RAY SHORE
“The transactions are void”
\VfHEN the late Mr f Clarrie Martin, a
TT former Minister, of Justice, intro-
duced the N.S.W. Moneylenders’ Act in
1941 he proudly announced: “I have
introduced a legislation to tie all money-
lenders in knots whijch they will find
extremely difficult to untie.” And the 150
people who crowded into Federation
House last month would certainly agree
with him.
But they were borrowers,
they were exploitecr moneylenders—and
what they were seeking was protection
from the unscrupulous borrowers whom
Mr Martin could not have anticipated
when he made his boast 20 years ago.
Since 1956 nearly £2om. has been lost
by moneylenders. A number of the
moneylenders’ are more appropriately
described as small investors who, after
carefully saving their money frugally
over the years, have lost their savings
almost overnight.
The meeting was organised by Mr Ray
Shore, a finance adviser, and he told the
meeting that at least 2000 moneylenders
in N.S.W. are lending money at rates
which contravene the Act—unaware that
their transactions are void. Their securi-
ties are unenforceable—either because
they are not licensed or their documents
do not comply with the legislation. Since
“every man is presumed to know the
law," the plea of ignorance is worthless
when a borrower disappears overnight
with their money.
The hire-purchase boom, gathering
pace in the early ’fifties, set off a system
of borrowing from the public—by
deposits, debentures and notes. This was
a prelude to a rush of financiers for the
money of people anxious to enter a field
promising high rates of interest and high
security. For more than a decade, the
private investor stood alone, confused by
rumors, alarmed by reports of defaulting
finance companies, with no information
to guide him, nowhere to turn.
The Investors’ Association of Australia
has been formed to meet the needs of
this private investor. It is a non-profit
organisation designed to provide adequate
protection against fraud ; competent
documentation under the Moneylenders
Act ; selection and examination of securi-j
ties ; investigation of borrowers’ creden-
tials ; exercise of remedial rights and
indemnity against loss and safe storage of
security documents.
To run the association, a committee of
five will be set up. On it will be repre-
sentatives from sharebrokers, the legal
profession, and bankers. Monthly meet-
ings will provide speakers from legal and
ir /estment authorities —covering case
histories of unfortunate investors and
unscrupulous companies, and outlining
new developments in tl e investment and
legal fields. It also intends to appoinl
a firm of solicitors, experienced in
moneylending procedures, to advise its
members and to form a capital pool for
investing in “lucrative" projects, many of
which, according to Mr Shore, might pay
15 per cent., but which may be beyond
the resources of the small investor or
“moneylender.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Confusion of Archbishop Gough
The Archbishop of Sydney is to be
commended for his interest in Com-
munism. It is a pity that he seems to
know so little about it. If he began to
study the operations of Communists in
Australia he might first confine himself to
exposing the activities of those Protestant
clergymen including Anglicans who
let themselves be used as agents of the
Communist party.
It was quite disgusting that in the state-
ments that followed Dr Gough’s out-
burst last week it was revealed that Pro-
fessor John Anderson was one of those
who were supposed, by their teaching, to
“throw the door wide open to Com-
munism.” Anderson—of all people! It
is largely John Anderson who is respons-
ible for the weakness of Communists at
Sydney University. It is odd that Ander-
son, the enemy of Communism, should be
so outrageously linked with Communism
when so many Protestant clergymen over
the years have helped the growth of
Communist front activities either deliber-
ately—because they are fellow-travellers
—or through good intentions, gullibility,
self-importance or whatever it is that
induces them to make dangerous fools
of themselves and give aid and comfort
to their churches’ greatest enemies.
The confusions into which well-
meaning clergymen can fall when they
talk of Communism could not have been
made clearer than in the Archbishop’s
statement and the subsequent fuss. There
is no connection between Communism
and “free love,” except one of antipathy.
The Soviet is sexually a more puritan
country than Australia, and if clergymen
are filled with an overwhelming Jansenist
obsession with sex, if they consider that
sexual morality overrides all other ques-
tions of faith and morals, they may as
well go to Russia, It is, of course, the
duty of churchmen to uphold standards
and to preach morality ; but when they
enter the political field they also have to
get their political facts right.
Nothing more greatly hinders the cause
of anfi-Communism than a loose use of
the word “Communist” to link with it
people one does not like and who in
some way are believed to be unconven-
tional. It was very careless indeed for
Ur Gough to fall into this error; by
doing so he weakens the force of those
who use the word exactly and are con-
cerned with accurately describing the
activities, or likely activities, of Com-
munists in the universities. He has lent
strength to the belief that any attempt to
talk about Communists in universities
is bound to lead to a general suppression
of university opinion. He has given a
huge contribution to the armament of
every fellow-traveller in the country.
Already The Bulletin has received
insulting letters from people who have
tried to discredit our detailed description
of the activities of a Communist-led
faction in Melbourne University Social
Studies Department by linking it with
Dr Gough's vague fulminations. Yet the
two cases could not be more different.
We described the activities of Mr
Geoffrey Sharp, a known Communist;
Dr Gough just used the word “Com-
munist” as an associative term (and gave
the wrong association). We went into
times and places and gave a full chronicle
of details; fee gave no details at all.
There is only this consolation: not only
did those concerned explicitly deny Dr
Gough's allegations ; at least two Vice-
Chancellors and Staff Association spokes-
men denied them as well. And all of
this directly. In our case no one has
denied anything. Those concerned have
not issued any denials ; nor has the Vice-
Chancellor or the Staff Association. A
University committee is examining what
we said. But otherwise there is stalk—
after two and a half months—a damning
silence.
An unfortunate blunder in the use of
the word Communist is, of course,
not the only bad feature of this affair.
It is also regrettable that the Archbishop
has taken a course of action which is
already being used as a scare campaign
to suppress university opinion. Any sug-
gestion that Professors Anderson, Stout
and O'Neill have used their rostra to
urge their students to premarital sexual
intercourse and the rest of it is nonsense
of the highest order. But what is now
being suggested goes further than that.
There is an attempt to force certain be-
liefs on university staffs and silence
others, and this is being conducted
against a background of hysteria. The
Rev. Mr Gordon Powell, for instance,
chimed m last Sunday with the inane
statement that the thought had crossed
his mind that his son’s university career
might fee affected if he “came out on this
morals question.” There is only one way
to conduct this kind of thing decently.
If someone thinks that a member of a
university staff has acted with gross im-
propriety he should say so, giving names
and details. He can tell the police if it is
a criminal offence ; take civil action if
that is relevant or inform the Vice-
Chancellor if it is not; if he is sure of
his facts and wants publicity he can at
least have the courage to make a full
statement and be sued for libel. But by
anonymous smearing innuendoes he
merely discredits a university without
anyone being the wiser about what he is
really talking about
Just as it is the duty of preachers to
preach, it is the duty of university staff to
follow their consciences and express any
opinions they hold. It is improper for
them to use their lectures as vehicles for
mere propaganda and an abuse to raise
questions in lectures that have no con-
nection with what they are teaching ; it
is grossly improper for them to favor or
discriminate against students on non-
academic grounds, and this is something,
in a clear case, for which they might be
dismissed ; it is also improper for them
to use their position to inveigle under-
graduates into allegiances or to treat
undergraduates in any way as fodder for
some favored cause.
T|ut given all this, it is also improper
for them not to say what they think
in their lectures—if it is relevant—and
not to express their opinions on anything
they wish outside the lecture theatre.
As Mr David Armstrong, Dr Frank
Kffldp&teaacher, Mr Vincent Buckley and
others said in a statement on Dr Gough’s
charges: “Jf any attempt were to be
made to force a university lecturer to
teach doctrines inconsistent with his be-
liefs his right as a university teacher
would be grossly violated.” It is an
offence against academic integrity that
any attempt should be made from outside
a university to force opinions on uni-
versity lecturers. This applies always to
the Communist party, which can direct
university lecturers to speak or behave
as it wishes ; it also applies, in this
regrettable instance, to Dr Gough.
The occasion of this whole affair is the
appointment by the N.S.W. Premier of
an Advisory Youth Policy Committee.
Jf this committee were to look into the
causes of juvenile delinquency in a cool,
scientific manner and report on what it
found it would be engaging in a sensible
activity. It would probably find 20 differ-
ent causes of delinquency, but no matter.
But if it is just going to sound off on
the basis of one philosophically illiterate
pamphletif it is going to use its position
to advocate pet causes and turn its pro-
ceedings into an absurdity, the sooner
the Premier closes it down and starts all
over again the better.
By OB SE RVER


The Waterfront Jungle—1
The Seaman Who
“Called Copper”
The first of three articles
By ALAN REID
W. F. PHILLIPS
“That’s the way it is”
WILLIAM FRANCIS (“MAC”) PHILLIPS, 33. is
an Australian seaman. He is built like a wharf
bollard, squat, round and thick. He is known on
the waterfront and to the police as a fearless,
dangerous brawler capable of looking after himself in the
savagery of a street fight. He has “form.” which is water-
front argot for a police record. He looks what he is—a
very tough character.
In September last year Phillips quarrelled with officials
of the Australian Seamen's Union. He slugged a seaman
brought to the union office by a B.H.P. official (Mr Munro).
In a sworn affidavit which the union did not seek to con-
tradict when given the opportunity in court. Phillips stated
he did the slugging when “given the nod” by a union
official. The union suspended him —took away his Sea-
men’s Union book without which he could not get a ship
on the Australian coast.
To get back the book which he believed had been
taken from him unjustly, Phillips took the union before
the Commonwealth Industrial Commission. In doing so he
“called copper,” and to “call copper” is the unpardonable
waterfront sin—the sin that those who control the Sydney
waterfront at the criminal level and those who control it
at the industrial level do not forgive.
Phillips has got back his book. The court ordered its
return. But for all his toughness Phillips has decided
against going back to sea on the Australian coast. For there
is no forgiveness for the man who “calls copper.”
Here is Phillips's story. It depicts a waterfront on which
the vast majority of workers go to work to earn a livelihood
for themselves and their families; they do not go to work
to get into fights or to be threatened that known criminals
are “looking” for them; their desire for good pay and a
quiet life cows them into accepting “fringe” rule by men
who alternately intimidate them and ruthlessly exploit their
yearnings for better pay and conditions and their traditional
waterfront hostility to “the bosses.” Known gunmen come
into the story. The techniques used against men who stand
up for themselves and their rights are described in the
words of some of the men who have been intimidated,
■pHILLIPS is sft 9in. tall, a hard, muscular 16 stone. A
A damaged eyelid droops across his right eye in an almost
fixed wink. He left school at 13. But he has obviously
done some reading. He talks well but slangily. This it what
he told me:
“I’m no angel. Perhaps it’s as well I’m not. Other-
wise I’d have been out of the industry years ago. I was
convicted some years ago for selling a gun. I found it.
Within minutes a bloke made me an offer of £l6. so I sold
it to him. You can see that the circumstances were not too
bad from the fact that I brought only a fine. I’ve been
charged with kidnapping. But the child was mine. I took
him away from the people who had been looking after him
because they were not suitable in my view to have his
custody.”*
“I’ve had several convictions for brawling and offen-
sive behavior. Some of them arose from industrial inci-
dents —doing the things that Elliott. Snowy Webster and
Barney Smith have encouraged me to do. I’ve been
lumbered in Hobart over the painting of Communist slogans
on Government House —the Communists who actually
painted them were drinking in a nearby pub. but I wouldn't
shelf them and got a bit rude to the police —and in Brisbane
for breaking through a wharf gate with a hammer in an
industrial stink. I was also the seaman who got pinched
when the union and the wharfies pulled on the riot over the
Italian ship at Circular Quay in 1959.
“That’s how the Communists get you in on the water-
front, if you’re a bit tough. They incite you to build up a
record. And then they threaten to throw your record at
you in court and blackguard you round the waterfront as a
gangster if you complain about something they’re doing.
But there’s nothing against me for dishonesty. I’ve never
served a jail sentence. 1 may be a wild man. But I’m no
thief or thug. Even the coppers'll tell you that. I have a
grievance against the officials of the Seamen’s Union. I've
a lot of grievances against them. I’ve had grievances for a
long time.
“I’m not political. I don’t belong to any party. But
I am not a Communist. The Seamen’s Union is run by the
Communist party. I’m a good unionist. The number of
times I’ve been jugged for fighting the union’s battles show
that.
“What the Communists don’t like about me is that I’m
a tough anti-Communist. They don’t mind the anti-
Communists who aren’t tough. They can handle them.
The ordinary fellow —and you can’t blame him—doesn’t
* A search of the records shows that on March 28, 1955,
Phillips was committed for trial on a charge of abducting his
son, Christopher. Phillips took the child to Mrs Primrose,
mother of his former wife. He was committed for trial on
April 4, 1955, but the Attorney-General did not file a bill
against him.


want to be in blues all the time. He goes to water—lets the
Communists and their bully boys push him around and
doesn’t hit back. I’m lucky. I’ve got the physique to hit
back. And I hit back. I’m a good street brawler. I’ve
never been knocked off my pins. I know it’s nothing to be
proud of. But that’s the way it is.
“Because of this the Comrades have never been able
to intimidate me. I can look after myself. Their standover
men don’t frighten me. But they frighten others. It is
through them that the Communists are able to intimidate
individuals and see that the Communist officials they want
keep control of the union.
“AIY deepest bitterness comes from the fact that they have
broken up my home. They victimised me for years.
I could put up with that. But now they’ve driven me off
the sea as they have driven off the coast nearly everyone
who dares oppose them. I’m only one among many. Now
they’ve taken away my iiving, I can’t keep up with the pay-
ments on the house that my wife and I were buying.”
“As well as not being able to keep up with the house
payments, I could not keep up with hire-purchase commit-
ments I had and ran into trouble. Police came to my house.
My wife, Cathy, is a very respectable woman. She couldn’t
understand a situation that brought police to our house.
Nor could she understand the change in our way of living
after the Communists had taken my living from me.
“When I told Snowy Webster at the union offices in
Sussex Street that I intended suing the union for damages
he told me, ‘You’ll never live to enjoy it.’ 1 have witnesses
for this.”
/ have in my possession two statutory declarations. One
reads: “Last January in company with / was waiting
outside the Seamen’s Union in Sussex Street when William
Phillips came out of the doorway in company of Snowy
Webster. I did not know Webster at the time, but have since
had him pointed out to me as the Vigilance Officer of the
Seamen’s Union and would know him again. Phillips said to
Webster, ‘You can forget about the wages. I am going to sue
you bastards for 25 thousand. Webster said, ‘You
won't live to enjoy it.’ Phillips made a gesture with his thumb
and walked away.”
The second declaration is substantially the same. The
signatories have asked that their names and addresses be kept
confidential at this stage.
Phillips continued: “I had already had several anony-
mous phone calls. Those who phoned me kept getting me
at the Welcome Inn Hotel. I was told by these phoners
they would blow up my house if I took action against the
union.
“The bulk of the men in the Seamen’s Union are
honest, law-abiding characters who are the cream of the
earth. They want nothing more than to be left alone to
earn their livings and to work through proper channels to
improve their wages and conditions. Seamen’ll give you
the shirts off their backs. They never knock back a collec-
tion. They’ll ‘put in’ every payday not just once but for
every cause that rattles a box under their noses.
“But we’ve got some of Sydney’s worst citizens associ-
ated with us. Gunmen. Standover men. Some of the biggest
thieves in N.S.W. I could rattle off a list longer than your
arm.”
And that is what Phillips did do. He rattled off a list for
me that included some of Sydney’s most dangerous criminals.
Phillips continued: “After I got the phone calls I told
Webster ‘l’ve two savage dogs and a rifle at home, Webster.
The first stranger who sets foot in my property and I’ll blast
him. Let anyone likely to play rough know that. Nobody
is going to involve my wife and kids in this business.’ I
told this to Webster because he is in touch with seamen
daily and I knew that if he repeated what I had said my
warning would go round the waterfront smartly.”
I have talked with Mrs Cathy Phillips whom Phillips said
he was not going to have involved “in this business.’’ She is
25, a slender, blonde girl, very nervous. She is obviously better
educated than Phillips. She is working in a city office. But
she wants to become a schoolteacher so that her hours will fit
in better with those of her children. She hopes to get her
teacher s certificate through nightschool over a period. She is
Phillips s second wife. At present with their two children,
Michael, three, and Linda, 18 months, she is living at her
mother’s home.
She told me: “I’ve left Bill. I wonder sometimes if 1 did
the wrong thing. I feel I’ve let him down. But l can t live
with a man who has to sleep with a loaded rifle beside the bed
and who jumps up to peer through the curtain when a car
slows down in the street at night. When his trouble with the
union started he got me to move both the babies into our bed-
room. He wouldn’t let me leave them with anyone even to go
shopping. I couldn’t stand the atmosphere. It was frightening.
Young as they are, the children felt it. They became nervous
and irritable.
Phillips continued: “The Communists in the Seamen’s
Union sickened me a long time ago. They’re not interested
in the men’s welfare. They want militancy not for what it
puts into the seaman’s pocket and for the way it improves
conditions but for militancy’s sake. They sool the men on
to the shipowners and the shipowners on to the men. They
tell a different story to both groups.
“They tell lies to the courts, to the shipowners and to
the men.
“The union had an agreement with B.H.P. that B.H.P.
can itself recruit seamen for its ships when it can’t get sea-
men from union sources. These seamen get an okay from
the union. It was under this agreement that Mr Munro
brought to the union office the man I hit on the chin at
Smith’s nod. I shouldn’t have done it. I should have
realised that the officials would sacrifice me to save their
own hides.
“Those who run the union have never been fair dinkum
about this agreement with the B.H.P. I’ve been at meetings
of seamen when Elliott, Webster and Smith have said
‘B—— this agreement. Put on a stink. You fellows are
ruining the industry letting the B.H.P. flood the industry
with scabs.’ Each of the three have said the same thing to
me personally. When Smith gave me ‘the nod’ to hit the
man Mr Munro brought into the union office I thought I
was doing the right thing.
“I should have woken up years ago to the fact that they
play the men off against the owners and the owners off
against the men not to help the men, but for their own
political ends. When Elliott sees a ship go on the rocks he
doesn't think there goes 40 men’s jobs. He sees it as a blow
struck against the employers and an advance for the Com-
munist cause.”
Against the background of this charge an entry in the
minutes of the 83rd meeting of the Committee of Advice —
an official body under the Navigation Act which was replaced
in 1960 by the equally official Marine Council —makes interest-
ing reading. This 83rd meeting was held at 428 George Street,
Sydney, on Thursday, June 19, 1960. Present were Captain
J K. Crone, Acting Director of Navigation, Mr R. A. Coutts,
Mr V. C. Eddy, Captain Menzies and Mr R. Reed, representing
shipowners, and Mr E. Barnwell, Mr E. V. Elliott, Captain T.
Martin and Mr J. A. Tudehope, representing masters, officers
and seamen.
After discussion of damage caused the Eugowra when she
nearly went ashore while at moorings during a gale on May 13,
1960, while the seamen had gone ashore on strike and were at
a hotel a short distance from the wharf, the minutes read:


“Captain Menzies claimed that no seaman worthy of the name
would stand by and let his ship pile on the rocks, but Mr
Ellioit stated that these men were on strike and no true unionist
would be expected to protect his employer’s property while on
strike.” These minutes were confirmed at the 84th meeting of
the Committee of Advice held at 497 Collins Street, Melbourne,
on Thursday, July 14, 1960. Mr Elliott is listed as among
those present when the minutes were confirmed.
“The B.H.P. case isn’t the only one in which they’ve
told lies to the court and to the shipowners. They tell ship-
owners and the court that they are trying to get men to take
ships to sea. Then sometimes, only because they are
juggling the roster to get a good job for one of their sup-
porters at the expense of men like myself who are non-
Communist and get only the poorer jobs, they put a ship
‘on the coat.’
“Snowy Webster stands there at the pickup centre
(under the Harbor Bridge where seamen go to put them-
selves on a union roster thereby signifying that they are
ready to take a job) and calls for men for a particular ship.
As he does so he fingers the lapel of his coat. He has
already told most of us earlier that the ship is ‘on the coat,’
or, in other words, that we’re not to take a job in her. But
he fingers his coat lapel in case any latecomer to the pickup
centre has not heard the news. Webster has said to me
time after time, ‘Such-and-such a ship is on the coat.’ So
has Elliott.
“I’ve been at the pickup when they’ve held up a ship to
get a good job for one of the Communist supporters. There
was no other reason for the holdup. Then as soon as they’ve
fixed the job for their supporter they ‘shanghai’ men for
other ships. ‘Shanghaiing’ is when they tell you to take a
ship whether you want it or not.”
TpHILLIPS continued: “If I tell the story of what has hap-
A pened to me in the Seamen’s Union it will probably illus-
trate what goes on within the union better than any
generalisations.
“I’m English. I was born in Liverpool on October 26,
1927. I went to sea during the war. I was 13 years old.
1 have been at sea ever since. I was bombed in the Mediter-
ranean in the Samite in 1943 and torpedoed on April 25,
1945, in the Riverton. I came to Australia in 1951 in the
Port Halifax. I left her here. I was a member of the British
Seamen’s Union.
“I joined one of Birt’s ships—the Kaipaki of the New
Zealand Shipping Company. We claimed there were
maggots in the meat So we stuck her up in Melbourne. I
was spokesman for the crew. I was on a repatriation agree-
ment which meant that they didn’t have to take me back to
the United Kingdom. I was fired. The rest of the crew
were jailed.”
Official records confirm this. A sidelight is that a health
official inspected the meat and declared it of high quality.
“When the crew was in jail a fellow I met in the street
told me to go and see Billy Bird [then the Communist Vic-
torian Secretary of the Seamen’s Union who if the seagulls
—waterfront argot for rumors—are to be believed has been
earmarked by the Communist party as Elliott’s successor
in the job of General Secretary]. I saw Bird. I went down
with a fellow named Frank Allen and bailed out the crew.
Later they sailed in the ship. Bird gave me a letter to the
Seamen’s Union in Sydney. The letter was to Snowy Webster
and said that I was a good unionist and the kind of fellow
they wanted on the coast.
“I’m still a good unionist. I’ve always been a good
unionist. I’ve been ship’s delegate and spokesman for the
crew on a number of ships. Liverpool raised, I’ve never
had any time for shipowners. But they’re nothing like as
merciless towards the men as the Communist-led Seamen’s
Union. We pay them £l2 a year and there used to be levies
and we get hit every pay day for something or other in the
belief that they are protecting our interests.
“They’re not. They’re out to destroy the coastal trade,
All they are interested in is getting ready for the time when
Communism takes over. They believe that that’s what’s
going to happen and that’s what they’re working for.
Poverty and restlessness is what they want. They don’t
want men earning a good living. So they deliberately foster
disputes between the men and the owners. You can earn
a good living at sea on the Australian coast. I made £ISOO
and more some years without being slave-driven. And I’ve
never been in the good ships. They’re kept for those who
don’t buck the Comrades. It didn’t take me long to run into
trouble in Sydney. I joined the Macedon. Then 1 joined
the Uki. There was a man named Frank Thomas aboard.
There was a move for a compulsory levy. The Communists
were going to be the main beneficiaries. Thomas opposed
the levy.
“As I say. I was not a member of any party. But 1
reckoned any man had the right to speak his mind. The
fact that I supported Thomas made it hard for the Com-
munists to lean on Thomas. Thomas had already been in
trouble with the Communists.”*
“Thomas wasn’t the only bloke I spoke up for at this
period. Later at another meeting I got up and spoke for
Billy Webb, who is non-Communist. Webb took out an
injunction against this levy. He had it stopped. Webb was
quite a force in the union in those days.
“There were still a lot of tough old firemen in the
industry who hung up their rosaries at the end of their
bunks. Elliott hadn't been able to get rid of them, though
he has since. They weren’t frightened of anyone, and that
included Elliott. As well as these, there were others like
myself who weren’t Catholic but thought any man had the
right to speak his mind. Until Elliott discredited Webb,
Webb was quite a threat to Elliott.”
William George Webb’s nickname on the waterfront is
“The Senator.” He is the only man l have been able to find
who took the Seamens Union to court, was successful, and
stayed at sea for any length of time. Here’s what happened:
March 14, 1952, on Webb’s application the Common-
wealth Arbitration Court ordered Eliot Valens Elliott
and others, being officers of the Seamen’s Union, to treat as
null and void any decision imposing a compulsory levy of
10s. a pay upon Seamen’s Union members and to take all
reasonable steps to recover sums paid from union funds
for the purposes of the Youth Carnival of Peace and Friend-
ship.
Webb apparently was a force in the Seamen’s Union for
a while. The “Seamen’s Journal” of July, 1950, reported:
“Allegedly about 150 men assembled in Sydney on the
afternoon of July 13 and were told by V. O. Eager their
meeting was unconstitutional and unnecessary. The union
has no official knowledge of what took place. But some
* I have been unable to contact Thomas. My information
is that he has left both the sea and N.S.W. The “Seamen’s
Journal” of February, 1948, reports that at a Sydney stopwork
meeting in January more than 500 seamen had resolved that
Frank Thomas be suspended “forthwith.” The report con-
tinues that a Supreme Court writ claiming £2OOO in damages
had been served on branch secretary Smith. “Now Thomas has
squealed to the law and claimed damages against Barney
Smith,” the article states.


members say a meeting was held with Member Webb as
chairman and two resolutions were carried. These loud
members wanted to take arms and troops to Korea.”
Though Webb, when he stood for the general secre-
taryship against Elliott in 1949, received only 1024 votes
to Elliott’s 2230. he was able to carry Sydney with him on
the Korean issue. Sydney (“Seamen’s Journal,” July, 1950)
voted 400 to 250 against the union executive’s recommenda-
tion for the Communist party stand that neither Australian
troops, nor. when the troops were actually in combat, their
supplies were to be allowed to leave Australia by ship for
Korea, where Australia was supporting United Nation's
action against North Korea.
Elliott was extremely lucky to prevail. All ports but
Brisbane divided almost equally. Brisbane departed from
the normal pattern of voting at the other ports to turn in an
extraordinarily strong pro-executive vote of 343 to 7. This
gave the executive's recommendation an overall majority
of 929 to 814.
But it was enough. Two years later Elliott was able to
say (“Seamen’s Journal.” March, 1952). when addressing a
Berlin meeting of the W.F.T.U. —an organisation banned
by the Australian Council of Trade Unions as “bogus and
Communist-controlled” —“No Australian ship has taken
troops or supplies from Australia to Korea and the Govern-
ment was compelled to use Air Force planes for this
purpose.”
Phillips went on to describe how he was used as the
instrument to discredit Webb and to allege that economic
pressure was brought upon him to allow himself to be used
as that instrument. He states: “When Webb took out his
injunction I was still serving my 12 months’ probationary
period with the union. This is how they keep a hold over
you until they are sure you are ‘all right politically.' Once
they think you are ‘all right politically’—that is, either with
’em or too timid ever to oppose them and give them worth-
while opposition —they give you full membership.
“It was at this time that I first met Elliott. He told
me to sign a statement that 1 was ‘inveigled’ into taking
the stand 1 did supporting Thomas and Webb. ‘Otherwise.’
I was told, ‘you can't get a ship.’
“1 wasn’t intimidated by the plug-uglies who are kept
off-scene on these occasions. But you always know at the
back of your mind that they're off stage. Except on the rare
occasions they don’t actually do you over in the union
offices but wait till they get you outside.”
Take the Mallet case.
£YN October 3. 1957. a seaman named Elias Mallett made
a statutory declaration. At a meeting 1 had later with
ship’s delegates in the union office in Sussex Street, delegates
assured me that he was highly strung, nervous and over-
fearful. But in view of what Phillips says here and the
affidavit Phillips swore in the Commonwealth Industrial
Commission as to how when “given the nod” by union
official B. Smith he had slugged a man brought to the union
office by B.H.P.’s official representative (Mr Munro),
Mallett’s declaration makes interesting reading.
Mallett stated: “1 joined the Seafarers’ International
Union of North America in 1954. I had previously been a
member of the National Union of Seamen of Great Britain.
I came to Australia in 1949 and paid off legally. I was then
just 16. I joined the Seamen’s Union of Australia and
sailed in the Babinda. I am Jewish. Canadian resident and
a Mason. While on the Babinda I refused to pay contri-
butions to the Communist party funds, or to Communist
literature, or to the Peace and Progress fund, or to any of
its affiliates, and 1 also refused to sign petitions that were
handed to me by Communists. My trouble with the Sea-
men’s Union dates from that period.
E. V. ELLIOTT
ALAN REID
. . .1 was summoned several times to the union office
and told to get off the coast."
Mallett's statement describes how whisky was poured on
his bedding which was set alight while he was asleep, and
“accidents” in which he narrowly escaped crippling or
death.
His statement continues: . . .1 went back to Canada,
returning on August 19 this year (1957) on the Oronsay as
a passenger. 1 went direct to the Seamen’s Union and
rejoined as a financial member. As l was 33rd on the rosier
when the delegate on the Waitomo, a Union ship on
Canadian articles, offered me a permanent job. I accepted a
workbv job while waiting to see if a Waitomo crew member
recovered from an illness. I was a fully paid-up financial
member of the S.I.U. and fully entitled to the workby job.”
Mallett's declaration described how he did not take
the job “to give a fellow-Canadian a chance at a job." -and
the next time (September 25. 1957) he stood for a job at
the pickup centre Mr K. Fabian (then assistant secretary of
the Seamen’s Union.- Sydney branch) said. “Barney Smith
wants to see this man. He tried to get away on a Canadian
ship. He robbed a painter and docker of a job.”
Mallett’s declaration describes how he went to the
union office at the corner of Bathurst and Sussex Streets at
3.30 p.m. It goes on. “Present were Mr Smith and two
other men.
“Smith said. ‘Now we can see that you've been trained
by the S.I.U. in the U.S.A. You’ve come because the
Government or shipowners or the United States Govern-
ment have sent you You bloody phoney You're
just a bastard.’
“I said. ‘I did not go aboard this ship to get a job. The
delegate rang me up. I am quite entitled to take the job.
I did not rob any Australian of a job. . . .
“ ‘Give me a chance. I want to face the rank and file.
Let me explain my case to them.’
“Smith laughed at me. He said. ‘The rank and file will
just rubbish you.’
“They offered me a cup of tea. Smith said, ‘Would you
like a cup of tea?’
“When I put my hands out he said. ‘Take your hand
off.’
“I went back the same afternoon and asked Barney
Smith to consider my case, explaining that I have only
known the sea as my livelihood. I said, ‘I have never inter-
fered with anyone at any time.’
“Smith said. T want your book.’
“1 said. ‘Does that mean I can never ship out on another
Australian ship?’
“He said, ‘That’s right.’


Name
your Scotch ...
1
ill
'mm
.-
IMMte
<*>- c *
~
s* Y
Wife
L S> SCOTCH wh4f
W
1
*■ „c t- fc sCs^‘
*j, r*. DISTILtEB 5 '
1 pr - 6pi -.
I * COM MON WE AIT H „ *
%
,400***'
BY APPOINTMENT
TO HER MAJESTY
QUEEN ELIZABETH II
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS
WM. SANDERSON & SON LTD.
THERE'S NONE FINER!
NZL9I2
“On the next day I appealed to them again. I went to
the office. The lady at the office told me to write out my
statutory declaration and to give it to Elliott. The lady told
me my case would be reviewed in two months by the
executive committee.
“On Thursday, September 26 (1957), I went to the
Marine Stewards. They told me I could have a job pro-
vided their members did not want the job. On Tuesday,
October 1, there was a call for two jobs on the Westralia.
A member of the Stewards’ Union took one. No other
member wanted the other. I was given a chit to report to
the Westralia. I went to the shipping office, but I did not
sign on as I had to get a medical examination.
“1 was declared fit. But at 6.15 a.m. on Wednesday,
October 2, I received an anonymous phone call. The voice
at the other end said, ‘Mallett. don’t join the Westralia.’ 1
said. ‘Why?’ The voice at the other end said, ‘Just a
warning.’ The phone was hung up.
“1 have decided to leave the country and have booked
my passage by the Monowai sailing tomorrow.”
Mallett sailed on the Monowai.
pHILLIPS continued: “But I was under economic pressure
when Elliott told me to sign the statement against Webb.
I’m a seaman. I’ve been one all my life. 1 don't seem able
to work ashore. 1 wanted a job. I signed the statement
without even reading it It was published in the “Seamen’s
Journal” in June, 1952, over my signature
“I’ve read it since I’ve never read such hooey ”
This is what he wrote: “Because I consider
myself a decent unionist, I am disgusted with the activities
of some of the members of the union, particularly in seek-
ing outside assistance to attack the policy of our union
which we members decide at slopwork meetings. I now
recognise that the people who have used me in their own
interests will, by their policy, ultimately damage our Sea-
men’s Union.
“Efforts are being made to form Industrial Groups in
the Seamen’s Union, and these groups are to organise peti-
tions for the purpose of giving over the control of our union
elections to the Menzies Government. Discussions have
been held by Webb and MacDonald of the Industrial
Group and myself on what to do in the Seamen’s Union,
and well-known officials of other unions and prominent legal
people have been present. At present moves are being made
to join the Industrial Groups on the waterfront with the very
small industrial group in the Seamen's Union.
“The Industrial Group is trying to collect material from
any source to run a smear campaign against the present
officials, and they intend to issue pamphlets prior to our
elections to create a situation where they can ask the Arbi-
tration Court to conduct the ballot.
“My main interests are the interests of the Seamen’s
Union, and having sailed on a number of overseas ships. I
recognise that our good conditions must have been won
and can only be held and improved by united union mem-
bers. and I therefore write this report of what I know is the
outside interference that is taking place in our union, which
can only cause us harm May 30, 1952.”
The MacDonald to whom Phillips’s article refers is a man
named Austin MacDonald. MacDonald was suspended from
union membership. He (1) won a case in the Arbitration Court
for the return of his book, and (2) proceeded against union
officials Smith and Webster in the District Court charging them
with conspiring to prevent him obtaining employment as a
seaman (“Seamen’s Journal,” July, 1953). The jury awarded
him £1564. which exceeded the limit that could be given in that
court, and the verdict was reduced to £lOOO.
After the publication of Phillips’s letter Webb seems
to have become a spent force as far as the union was con-
cerned. Phillips’s turn was yet to come.


Breaking the
Communist Code
No return to Camp David
By BRENDAN O'HARA
N. KHRUSHCHEV
MAO TSE-TUNG
Two heads one thought?
There is one thing about the Russians. If you want to
know what they are doing you have only to break their
code and read some of their publications. For
example, the policies of the Communist bloc towards
Australia and in those parts of the world whose conduct might
affect Australia’s future, are all written down in a declaration
issued at the end of last year after a three - week Moscow
conference of 189 representatives of the 81 Communist parties
of the world.
The 15,000-word Moscow Declaration is the new Com-
munist credo, not so much of ends, but of means. The ends,
of course, are always the same: the bringing under “socialism”
of all those countries who are not fortunate enough to live
under a “socialist” government. The declaration can be divided
into four parts: war and peace; peaceful co-existence; the
.policy to be adopted in non-Communist countries ; and the
new position of the Communist party of the Soviet Union in
the world “socialist" bloc.
WAR AND PEACE
Tj ussians, and to a lesser extent the Chinese, believe that
there is “no fatal inevitability of war” because, according
to Soviet Major-General N. Talensky, writing ii “International
Affairs,” a third world war would result in “the most active,
capable and civilised portion of mankind [being] wiped out.”
The new world-wide Communist position is that “wars of
containment” can be safely fought. This means that local
wars will be supported in any and every way in such areas,
as the Congo. Laos, Algeria, Latin America, and closer to
home. Indonesia.
PEACEFUL CO-EXISTENCE
Peaceful co-existence is a policy which contributes “to the
A consolidation of the position of .Socialism and the growth
of the prestige and international influence of the Socialist
eountries, and enhances the authority of Communist parties
in capitalist countries.”
it .also means “the disbandment of military blocs; the
liquidation of military bases ; universal and total disarmament
under international-control . . . non-interference in each other’s
internal affairs.” But by retaining -the concept of “peaceful
co-existence” and guaranteeing support for local wars, the
Communist bloc has already shown it will “interfere in (all)
internal affairs.” “The line of peaceful co-existence, is a line
of mobilisation of the masses, of development of intensified
action against the enemies of peace.” And Australians are
the “enemies of peace” because we don't support Indonesia’s
claim over West New Guinea, recognition of China, Chinese
claims over Formosa, and unilateral disarmament and because
we do support the Western line. We allow America to
establish military bases here, enter into Seato pacts and other
defensive treaty organisations.
UNITED FRONTS
'"The main vehicles for the propagating of “peaceful co-
existence” in Australia are the Communist Party of Aus-
tralia and its complementary front organisations. This “line
of peaceful co-existence,” pushed by front organisations, was
seen in Fremantle two months after the declaration was
issued. Two hundred seamen from six ships held a stop-work
meeting to “protest” against a U.S. proposal to establish a
“signalling and atomic submarine base.” Five A.E.U. branches
were also roped in along with the State executive of the
A.L.P. Another instance was the 200-strong car-convoy of
“peaceful co-existers” which left Melbourne one Sunday, and
drove the 140 miles to East Sale to protest against the U 2
planes there. In the first case two trade unions gave the
propagandising of Soviet foreign policy against America
institutional respectability and in the second, prominent A.L.P.
men provided the sweet smell of respectability. The strongest
front organisations in Australia are all the different “peace”
movements.
The work of any united front, according to the Moscow
Declaration, is to struggle for “national independence, the
defence and development of democracy, the nationalisation
of the most important branches of the economy and the
democratisation of their administration. The use of the entire
economy for peaceful purposes....” One example of the
way Soviet propaganda gains acceptance was seen in the
statement of Mr J. Heffernan, N.S.W. secretary of the Metal
Trades Federation, made at the third session of the Metal
Workers' Convention in April, “that unless peace is securely
established other problems, whether social, economic, political
or industrial are not possible of solution.” Judging by this
example, one trade unionist now believes that spreading Soviet
foreign policy propaganda is pre-eminent in his efforts to
secure better conditions for his members.
NATIONAL DEMOCRATIC STATE
HTo- earn the title of “National Democratic State,” says the
* Moscow Declaration, a country must “defend its political
and economic independence, fight against imperialism and
its military blocs and against bases on its territory ; fight
against the new forms of colonialism and the penetration
of imperialist capital . .
Communist parties and their united fronts must now
gain support anywhere where people “support the actions of
national governments which undermine the positions of
imperialism.” And the Communist party will use all sorts of
groups and meetings to get their policy resolutions passed:
World Council of Churches, poets’ groups, union meetings,
ratepayers. Catholic organisations —no sector of Australian
society will be overlooked in the broadening of the united
front to achieve a “national democratic state.”
MORE COLD WAR
A ustralians would be kidding themselves if they thought
as a result of Mr Kennedy and Mr Khrushchev talking
together in Vienna, tension will be relaxed. In all international
conferences, Mr Khrushchev, too, must faithfully echo the
words of the declaration. We can expect an even more
intensified cold-war period than we experienced from 1947
to 1956. But it is not only the statement of Communist
leaders which intensifies the cold war, but through “the out-
come of the internal development of every country and the
extreme exacerbation of social differences.” And we must not
be surprised if it is our most “respectable” and well-meaning
citizens who will seek to inveigle us into a “line of peaceful
co-existence.”


{hr sag
Hr
100% Australian-
made from Aus-
tralian Material
LYSAGHTS
ESTABLISHED 1884
u
os
Our Netting and Ollier Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as oi the highest standard
LOOK for Oar MARKER
in every Roll of Netting
• ■, ''m ■»» ' . .» gg rmm
301X0 Ml
QUALITY GUAR iSTEED
Obtainable from oti. jibe Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
’.YSAGHT BROS. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg'd Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road,
Five Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC,
The Man on the Land
Queensland’s Second Leg
Large-scale private enterprise, hacked by massive
technology, is the way to develop Queensland's
pastoral resources .
By M. H. ELLIS
(Second of Three Articles)
The Queensland Government is the largest owner of land
in the world outside the Communist bloc Its unalien-
ated lands cover 85.6 per cent, of the whole 670,000
square miles of the State But this has not made any
easier the problem of developing and expanding Queensland's
resources ; for over the years the State has had the para-
doxical habit of voting for Liberal-Country party Governments
in Federal elections and for a Socialist kind of Labor Govern-
ment in their own. The pernicious result has been that two
diametrically-opposed political systems have been applied to
the one problem of government.
Queensland as part of the Federation is out on a limb
in many ways. It is off the main overseas trade routes. It is
the one State that retains nearly all its land as Crown land.
Having had a Socialist Government, with one small break, for
40 years, it has become basically Socialist, with its civil service
indoctrinated to the spine with Socialist methods and principles.
It is also unique in that of the important mainland States it
at present stands only on one economic leg, though it is well
on the way to becoming firmly placed on two, pastoral and
mineral, if it follows the right policies.
Both the mining and the pastoral industries have been
exploited in Queensland before ; but exploited rather to
exhaustion of possibilities for the time being than to the full
fruition which modern technology and availability of capital
and transport have made possible.
All industry, pastoral or mineral or transport,
was ephemeral. Mining towns died. Drought at intervals
wiped out all but the most progressive stations. Railways
went derelict. Ports became ghost towns. The backbone
of Queensland, more than elsewhere, has always been the
pastoral industry.
Until the advent of Labor Governments (1916) agrieul-
tural lands were being alienated and closer settlement of graz-
ing lands was only in its first flush. Then the State introduced,
on top of a general pastoral leasehold policy, perpetual lease
for small Holdings and resumptions for large pastoral pro-
perties whose names attracted dozens of would-be graziers
without capital, some of whom would have recognised a sheep
only if the name oi its species had been printed under it.
This policy was supposedly to save the country, increase
production out of sight and make the rolling downs a patch-
work of smiling farms. It has produced a good many miles
of fencing and a forest of reduplicated improvements. It has
produced a highly-skilled Land Court and Land Administration
which at times has been asked urgently to draft new plans to
rescue the Government from the tangles into which it has
fallen in the political management of land. It has bred the
constant need to reappraise values and to settle new bases of
values. It has also generated in the minds of landholders, no
matter how long settled or what their tenure, a sense of
uneasiness and uncertainty about the future. They are men
developing something not their own and subject to the whims
of future controllers with as yet incalculable policies.
In theory, of course, Government ownership, with cheap
rentals fixed at intervals according to productivity, should
be an admirable way of making land available to men of
small capital ; but with party giving way to party in Parlia-
ment, and drought giving way to drought, and wool prices
jumping about like a jack-in-the-box at times, and poor and
unimprovable pastures involved, it doesn't work out that way.
The great grazing areas of Queensland which are so
much vaunted by Government publicity have certainly not
lived up to promise. Fifty years ago about 25 million acres
of land in Queensland was either alienated or in process of
alienation Less than 3 million acres has been alienated in


SYDNEY GREASY WOOL FUTURES
EXCHANGE LIMITED
16 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
FLOOR MEMBERS
R. G. BAILEY & CO. (AUST.) PTY. LIMITED,
35 Pitt St., Sydney
K. V. CHAPMAN & COMPANY PTY. LTD.
55/65 Murray St., Pyrmont, Sydney
A. DEWAVRIN FUTURES PTY. LTD.
174-176 George St., Sydney
DREYFUS & CO. (AUST.) PTY. LIMITED
30/32 Pitt St., Sydney
CLIVE HALL PTY. LIMITED 13 Phillip St., Sydney
MESSRS. HAUGHTON, BUXTON (FUTURES)
PTY. LTD 24 Jamison St., Sydney
HERBAUX & MASUREL (AUST.) PTY.
LIMITED 11 Phillip St., Sydney
KREGLINGER & HIRSCH (FUTURES) PTY. LTD.
10 Loftus St., Sydney
L. H. BELL PTY. LTD 31 Macquarie Place, Sydney
W. P. MARTIN, WHITTINGHAM (WOOL
FUTURES) PTY. LTD 52 Pitt St., Sydney
J. W. McGREGOR & CO 5 Bond St., Sydney
G. H. MICHELL & SONS LIMITED,
30 Grosvenor St., Sydney
NICHOLS (FUTURES) PTY. LTD.
17 Castlereagh St., Sydney
SIMONIUS, VISCHER & CO 44 Bridge St., Sydney
WILCOX MOFFLIN LIMITED 15 Phillip St., Sydney
For information regarding futures
trading write to any of the above firms
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for
hot-water systems, and household
requirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last a
lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvi-
linear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines and Ellison Switch Gear.
The
NORTHERN LIFE
Assurance Company of Australia Limited
(Incorporated in Canberra, Australia )
All Classes of Ordinary Life Assurance,
Superannuation and Annuity Policies Issued
HEAD OFFICE: 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone RL 5601 K. J. Hedley. General Manager
the interval. About 249 million acres are tied up under
pastoral leases alone.
The sheep lands, of course, have been little encroached
on by other industries. But one only needs to turn to other
States to see what has been achieved where freehold tenure
prevails. The total Government grazing licences for all
purposes in Victoria, including 2 million acres in the Mallee,
is about 6 million acres. All the rest used for sheep and cattle
raising is freehold. With closer settlement moving on along
with pasture improvement and water provision, Victoria today
carries more sheep than Queensland. Its numbers have in-
creased from 14.9 million in 1911 to about 26 million today.
Queensland’s sheep numbered 22.3 million in 1911 and 22.1
million 50 years later. True, half the Victorian sheep aren't
Merinos and virtually all the Queensland sheep are ; Victorian
land is highly improvable, and much of the Queensland land
isn’t, save as to water and systematic grazing and fodder
conservation. But the fact remains that Queensland, with
most available sheep land in the Commonwealth, has made
least progress in sheep numbers. N.S.W., with closer settle-
ment pressing on the industry, built up its sheep numbers
from 48 to 62 million ; South Australia from 6.64 million
to 13.68 million ; Western Australia from 5.8 million to over
14 million in 48 years to 1959.
In the Queensland cattle industry there have been substan-
tial advances, but not the advances that should have been
made. And what have been made have been in spite of,
rather than because of, basic Government encouragement of
the development and improvement of the industry.
It is amazing to find a State which claims to be the
reservoir of the beef industry staggering along with transport
facilities, fattening technique, fodder-conservation plans and
general lack of encouragement under conditions which were
out of date in the United States a generation ago, while
private persons urge it on —mostly in vain—to action which
is bound to immensely increase the rental value of its own
Crown Lands.
It is not the only evidence of stagnation. The Govern-
ment has the Payne Report, which it requisitioned in 1959
to provide it with a blueprint for iand development on a
large scale. That plan is generally approved in Parliament
and out. But little seems to be done about it except paper
work. There appears to be an impression in Brisbane (which
it is to be hoped is false) that the reason lies in bureaucracy’s
fear of the political effect of departing from the one-man,
one-farm closer-settlement plan which Labor approves. This
though the high costs of improvement and operation having
killed the ability of the man of little or no capital to establish
inmself even when provided with Government land and loans
and wet-nursed to the limit of the Government’s inadequate
resources.
The Government itself seems to have discovered that the
scale of finance required on the smallest kind of new grazing
leases is such as to strain its resources heavily, or make it
impracticable for it effectively to help sufficient people bent
on establishing new settlement. Yet it clings with shipwrecked
tenacity to inherited ideals and policies.
The whole land policy of Queensland calls for bold enter-
prise and developmental expenditure in tune with the massive
technology of the time, and with its relatively primitive
condition of organisation. There is so much at stake, having
regard to the rapid growth of population on the coast as
opposed to the inland, and the rapidly increasing demand for
employment that it is a matter in which the Commonwealth
as well as the State must take a hand.
Private enterprise, on a corporate basis, should be
encouraged to do its part of the spending and be given
the ownership of land, subject to ultimate Government
rights of subdivision on equitable conditions under a long-
term plan. Private enterprise of this sort, especially if it is
generated with a view to schemes which will settle considerable
populations in inland areas, should have full official support.
In fact, the principles which have been applied in
attracting population to Mount Isa and Mary Kathleen should
be applied to other areas in which minerals, cattle or sheep
can be produced and agriculture and other industries built
U P by mass effort to help our export markets.


FORUM
The Short Story
and The Bulletin
The short story in Australia has led
a subterranean life for years. As far
as writers are concerned the only markets
are The Bulletin, the few quarterlies and
the biennial “Coast to Coast,” which
always finds its way to the bargain
counter shortly after publication. Collec-
tions of stories by individual writers are
rare and often subsidised. Since the news-
papers stopped printing stories public
interest has become minimal, and many
critics, who might know better, do not
even believe in the possibilities of the
short story. The short story is poised in
an indeterminate position: it cannot, like
poetry, retreat entirely to the quarterlies
and be content with a discriminating
audience, nor can it make its appeal by
itself as a novel does. More accessible
than poetry and less domineering than a
novel, its rightful place is in a magazine.
Yet years of neglect meant that in the
only magazine which did maintain its
interest in the form, The Bulletin, the
short story was mostly steady but rarely
arresting.
After listing who killed the short story
we should say it is not dead. It is idle to
discuss whether the form itself is valid:
that sort of discussion raged around the
novel for years and merely provided
fodder for critics while the novelists
themselves were proving that forms don’t
die even though practitioners may have
become very faded. What does happen
in thin periods is that a form loses its con-
tact with life, that a stereotype is estab-
lished which inhibits imagination. The
form becomes a literary cliche dealing
with a limited subject matter in a derived
manner. By and large this has happened
to the short story in Australia, and in
order to encourage a new approach we
feel tempted to appeal for something as
vague as prose rather than something
which has come to be as narrowly
prescribed as the short story.
If the story is in a bit of a corner one
way out may be to shift the emphasis
from plot in an attempt to capture “a
quality of life.” But it may be more
profitable to open up new subject matter.
As the short story has fallen on lean
days, its interests have become ever more
peripheral, and it often jogs along con-
tent with old bohemian and underdog
preoccupations. We remarked on this
some weeks ago and appealed for stories
that deal with people such as managing
directors, or judges, or surgeons, or pro-
fessors, or departmental under-secretaries,
or Cabinet Ministers, or graziers—and
women. We were told we were snobbish,
that this “high life’’ was more boring,
more devious, more sordid than low life,
that it was ridiculous to prescribe sub-
jects for stories.
Those who find such life boring should
not write about it, those who find it
devious might need a novel to describe
it, and those who find it sordid should
produce best-sellers. We had no precon-
ceptions about such life, but we were
tacking against what we believe is a pre-
vailing prejudice: that short-story writers
rarely write about characters who are
like themselves and the people they mix
with, that readers rarely have a chance
to read about the sort of life they are
leading. One of the people we had in
mind when discussing what we hoped to
get from our short-story writers was
Angus Wilson. His stories of university
people broke new ground in England
after the war and provided just that
“shock of recognition” we would like to
get from our writers. Anyone who has
read “Such Darling Dodos” will know
that Wilson’s attitude to his subject was
not snobbish but critical and that they
were certainly more absorbing than most
accounts of conventional low life.
\fS7E expect our writers to be critical,
satirical, lyrical, comical, ironical
or any other way that affords them a grip
on their subject, a point of view which
allows them, and us, to see the way we
live now with a new acuteness. Of all the
descriptions of literature a French one
-—“a debate within the national conscious-
ness”-—has a particular appeal when we
are after writers who will embark on a
new discovery of Australia. That list of
This section of "The Bulletin" is a
forum of opinion and conflicting
ideas. Each week it will contain
controversial articles and replies
to them.
likely subjects was not exhaustive —we
could have added clerks, of all varieties,
teachers, secretaries, airline hostesses,
priests, nightclub' entertainers, parsons,
models, land speculators, salesmen and
so on if we wanted to indicate the variety
of characters which might interest us.
We were not specifying subjects but sug-
gesting a way out of an impasse and to
those who said only philistines believe
new subject matter will give a new art we
answer that only ineffectual aesthetes
imagine that there is no interaction be-
tween content and form.
We don’t imagine that the Australian
short story is bankrupt or that the short
story does not have its difficulties in other
countries. The market for stories has
diminished in England, and even Ameri-
can short-story writers, who might live in
hopes of the lavish payment such maga-
zines as “Esquire"’ make, look with long-
ing to Japan where short stories occa-
sionally inspire a page of comment in the
daily press. When critics take a hind-
ward look at this period they will dis-
cern, in the work of writers such as Peter
Shrubb, a development in the short story
parallel to that which has changed Aus-
tralian poetry and novels in recent years.
The Bulletin aims to encourage any
writer who will give us added insight.
But it does not intend to publish just any-
thing as if the world owes the writer an
interest. Indeed, writers themselves have
not been very vocal in the discussion on
the short story which we have launched,
so we trust they will let us know them
by their works. Some have taken the
trouble to demand “Saturday Evening
Post” rates, which shows them merely
trying to live out their fantasies: we
cannot pay “Post” rates, and, in any
case, we don’t want the “Post’’ kind of
story. Our rates could be higher, and
may be doubled, but what we have done
so far is dramatise the position of the
short story in Australia and create a
platform for the writers. Now, we think,
it is time for them to speak.


LETTERS
Communism in Universities
Sir,
Your remarks about the need to pro-
tect academic standards from second-rate
staff and Communists (Bulletin, July 1)
are very topical. Recent Bulletin
articles and letters have indicated that at
Melbourne University, at least, condi-
tions were allowed to deteriorate to such
an extent that Communists and fellow-
travellers were able to intimidate fellow-
academics and grossly violate the ethics
of their profession whilst the administra-
tion stood around, apparently helpless.
Another interesting feature of your
correspondence was Mr Stargardt’s
demonstration that much of the teaching
in the Melbourne Political Science
Department of subjects relating to the
Soviet Union could be described as only
a joke. Mr Stargardt’s challenge to the
head of the Melbourne Political Science
Department to justify the extraordinary
teaching methods of the department’s
main lecturer on the Soviet Union was,
unfortunately, not answered, despite the
fact that Mr Stargardt’s charges were
based on public documents.
Of course, if burglary, poison-pen
letters and other offences failed to move
the Melbourne University administration
to action, it was perhaps too much to
expect that the delivery of a series of
Soviet fabrications in place of a set of
lectures on the Soviet Union should be
especially noticed.
It is to be hoped that the commission
now inquiring into affairs in the Social
Studies and Criminology Departments
will do a thorough job and that the
University Council will not allow the
desire to avoid controversy overrule its
concern for academic standards. It
should not be necessary for public-
spirited journalists to remind the Univer-
sity of its duties by further public
exposures.
B. W. BUCKLEY
Kew (Vic.).
Sir,
It was gratifying to have confirmation
(Bulletin, June 24) that the letter pub-
lished in the name of the Students Social
Studies Society of the University of Mel-
bourne did not, in fact, represent the
views of the society.
Then we had clear evidence of Com-
munist technique in a case brought
against officials of the British Electrical
Trade Union, who were members of the
Communist party. Sir Charles Winn, a
judge of the High Court, stated that,
although probably less than one per cent,
of the 240,000 members of the union
were members of the Communist party,
the party, through certain officials, “not
only controlled the union, but it was so
managed as to serve the ideals of the
party.... five union officials had acted
in breach of the rules of the union and
conspired together to prevent ’by
fraudulent and unlawful devices’ the
election of Mr John Byrne as general
secretary of the union.”
I thought the above would be of
interest to Mr Turner and Mr Wheel-
wright.
I feel sure that only a few misguided
intellectuals within the universities pre-
tend that we cannot distinguish right
from wrong in these matters, but too
many others too easily forget or over-
look the Lysenko affair, the Hungarian
massacres, and the continuing and over-
whelming movement of refugees from
Eastern to Western Germany rather than
in the opposite direction. This shows
what is the human choice between the
two systems when that choice is still
possible, even despite the harsh threat
of possible capture and punishment.
I understand it was Lenin’s view that
“the support that the Communists give
to the Labor leaders should be like the
support which a rope gives to one who
is hanged.” This may be why some trade
unions and sections of the Labor party
try to limit infiltration by Communists.
I would submit, however, that in many
ways the universities have a greater
responsibility in endeavoring to maintain
the “life and endurance” of the Western
world, and have to decide whether they
are going to uphold the principles of
Western culture and civilisation, which
have brought so much advancement,
humanity, and well-being to large sec-
tions of mankind, or whether they are
going to allow themselves to be pene-
trated by subversive groups who wish
to destroy the principles and beliefs for
which the universities have stood.
Sir Walter Moberly’s statement that
“technical qualifications, however high,
will no longer be enough” thus becomes
a matter for careful consideration by all
those responsible for the welfare of our
universities.
PROFESSOR JOHN FRANCIS
Kenmore (Q ).
IS AMERICANISM A THREAT?
Sir,
“Is Americanism a Threat?” It is when
responsible publications use the term
“egghead” to describe an intellectual
when, in this country, it means a blither-
ing idiot.
P. J. CONNELL
Wentworthville (N.S.W.).
ELVIS GOES TO WAR
Sir,
As one who has always believed that
it is the function of a serious journal to
improve the thinking and aesthetic stan-
dards of its reading public, I was appalled
by the review by R. McCuaig (Bulletin,
June 24).
I consider this review a gross capitula-
tion to the standards of a lot of mentally
immature but physically precocious
females, to whom Presley, with his sexy
callisthenics, has become a kind of phallic
symbol.
Mr McCuaig’s quotation from Burl
Ives is purposely ambiguous: “I think
Elvis the greatest.” In the name of
heaven, the greatest what? The greatest
singer? The greatest mountebank? The
greatest dollar-spinner?
There is more than a hint of what
can be termed lowbrow snobbery in this
review. I know nothing of Mr McCuaig’s
work, which may be unfortunate, but I
will take the liberty to advise him to
read an essay by Aldous Huxley entitled
“Foreheads Villainous Low” before
attempting any further assessments of
some of the current teenage idols. It
was really quite breathtaking to see Elvis
alluded to as “a kind of Gulliver in a
world of Lilliputians.”
MAURICE MEARS
Herberton (Q .).
COLOR OF THEIR SKINS
Sir,
In your issue of July 1, “Observer,”
speaking of the offer of the Australian
Government to the Nauruans and of the
good effect this may have on world
opinion of Australia’s racial tolerance,
says “offhand one cannot think of any
similar gestures that might at present be
made.” I can think of several, but one
is outstanding and easy.
Persons of part Australian or European
ancestry in New Guinea should be given
the rights of Australian citizenship if they
seek them.
There is, as you say, the wider issue
of the movement in general between
Australia and New Guinea, but these
people are in a very special category.
They are, many of them, the products
of Australian action. They should be an
Australian responsibility. Yet their
status in respect to entry into Australia
is inferior to that of Chinese, who at least
can apply for naturalisation. It is folly
to exclude them. Numerically they are
too small a group to affect the color or
economy of Australia. Politically in New
Guinea they may become a highly signi-
ficant group resentful because of dis-
crimination against them.
It is a general rule, at least in most
parts of the Commonwealth, that children
may take the nationality of their fathers.
The only ground for denying the right to
these people is their proportion of black
blood. Their present position is a painful
example of racial prejudice.
W. R. GRDDES
University of Sydney.


17- '
j,*-1 §
•V
M o i»|!!jMiltoL,
n^wr —
V*,
zz^marggs*
E
pi
%
N*
DRIVE IT! You’ll be delighted with NEW
HYDRA-MATIC TRANSMISSION ON
the most automatic automatic of them all!
There’s nothing to equal the delight and effortless
ease of driving a new Hydra-Matic Holden. Press the
accelerator to go and press the brake pedal to stop
that’s all you do. No clutch, no gear lever nothing
but smooth, relaxed driving.
IMB
m
V
.
m
A
IT’S THE BIG THRILL OF ’6l MOTORING
Hydra-Matic makes owning Holden a new and even
bigger thrill. Driving round town is so much easier and
exhilarating. Every time you start off, you move with a
serene, gliding motion because changes are made auto-
matically for you. You’ll never stall the engine and
you’ll always be in complete control. You’ll find Hydra-
Matic transmission makes it easier for you to be a
better driver.
However, words can’t possibly do justice to the real
pleasure and driving ease of Holden with Hydra-Matic*
three-speed transmission. So ask your Holden Dealer to
arrange for you to have a drive now! * T « ADEMARK
AND YOU’LL LIKE HOLDEN’S NEW BEAUTY AND VALUE
You’ll like its new, clean lines, new grille and new, long,
low look. You’ll like the wide range of new colours
you have to choose from . . . all in fade-resistant Magic-
Mifror Acrylic Lacquer Finish. You’ll be impressed with
the new luxury inside. You’ll appreciate the new electric
windshield wipers and new engine hood lock. As well,
Holden offers you proved advantages for Australian
motoring that no other car can match proved six-
cylinder performance, proved dependability, proved
operating economy, proved high resale value. Come in
. . . see for yourself . . . Holden is now even more
rewarding to own even finer motoring value.
HOLDEN
AUSTRALIA’S OWN CAR
Prices from £BB5 pi us tax
Hydra-Matic transmission is optional on Special Sedan
and Special Station Sedan at £95 plus tax.
c Convenient GMAC Hire Purchase is available.


IT’S HARD TO GO RIGHT
IN MELBOURNE
Sir, . ,
j. Normington - Rawlings letter
(Bulletin 1/7/61) is a little puzzling:
which side is he really on? By his own
analysis it would appear that his protests
against the murder of Imre Nagy, the
seven Soviet doctors whom he forgets to
mention and other atrocities are made
purely to detract from the seriousness
of Little Rock, the execution of the
Rosenbergs and similar incidents. His
interpretation requires no knowledge of
his background to know why he reads
as he states he does read it the letter
published by the late Vance Palmer,
C. B. Christesen and co. in the “Age”
in luly, 1958. Nor could Mr Norming-
ton-Rawling remain silent.
Surely, as Vance Palmer and co. urge
us, to protest effectively against injustice
we cannot be selective, but must protest
against injustice on whichever side of
the road it occurs. If it’s hard to go right
in Melbourne it does not mean to say
that one has to immediately rush to the
left; only the highway code provides
for that.
WILTON MELZER
University of Melbourne.
THE RESIGNED AND THE
FURIOUS
Sir,
I was cheered by Eugene Bajkowski’s
assurance (Bulletin, 1/7/61) that
although it is “hard to get along on 655.
(plus a maximum additional payment of
575. 6d. a week for a family man) after
having been used to taking home £2O
every week,” unemployment is not
causing extreme hardship.
Now I have a certain interest in
words, and “hardship” is one that seems
somewhat vague. I feel it would clarify
the matter if Mr Bajkowski designed a
budget for a hypothetical unemployed
family man.
I will postulate a man of 27, married
five years, with two children aged four
and one. We will allow him to be
making £2 a week payment on a house,
and, being a responsible citizen, Bs. to
a medical-benefits fund and ss. on each
of three insurance policies, one on his
own life and two designed to furnish
the contingencies of his children's late
adolescence. Mr Bajkowski could then
draw up such a budget as would allow
this family to exist, without extreme
hardship, on their social-service pay-
ments.
I have not of course, allowed this
hypothetical wage-earner any payments
on a TV set. From the tone of some of
his remarks, I take it Mr Bajkowski
would agree with me that a large part
of our present economic difficulties stem
from the factitious boom created by
the introduction of TV.
To make the matter quite clear, Mr
Bajkowski might point out whether the
hardship would be lesser or greater if
°ur hypothetical wage-earner were used
to £l5 a week, and whether it is at all
affected by the degree of skill possessed
by the former wage-earner.
R. G. HAY
Yeppoon ( O .).
REFRESHING THE SHORT
STORY
Sir,
Undoubtedly it is high time that some-
thing was done to improve the standard
of short stories appearing in Australian
magazines, and it is stimulating to know
that The Bulletin proposes to under-
take the task.
It is, of course, nonsense for H. C.
Smith (24/6/61) to say that “most Aus-
tralians belong to the T>ut’ group,” but,
even if that were the case, 1 fail to see
why the discriminating reader should
be asked to suffer stories about low life
because, as he affirms, such stories have
been bestsellers in the past. If his remark
that “most Australians are better
educated than is thought” is true, and
that “they read for pleasure,” their taste
in literature is to be deplored.
It is almost as ridiculous for Mr Gavin
Casey, in the same issue, to suggest that
our local journals should pay rates
comparable to “The Saturday Evening
Post” with its tremendous advertising
potential, and its great international sub-
scription list. But there is a good deal
of truth in the fact that it is almost
impossible for the professional Austra-
lian writer to support himself by con-
tributions to Australian journals.
I understand that, by Act of Parlia-
ment, the Australian Broadcasting Com-
mission is compelled to devote a certain
percentage of its programmes to Aus-
tralian composers and Australian per-
formers (and very painful this is, for
listeners, on occasion!) Could not Par-
liament be persuaded to do a like service
for Australian writers, making it com-
pulsory for journals published in Aus-
tralia to devote a certain amount of space
to local talent instead of filling up with
syndicated material, of every doubtful
character and literary value, from
overseas?
The Commonwealth Government con-
trols a literary fund for the benefit of
gifted writers. I should think, if a
Government fund were established to
subsidise journals for engaging local
writers (say 25 per cent, of the payment
for each story printed), some of our best
writers might be encouraged to contri-
bute their best work, and be able to make
enough money to live on, and, by this
means, an Australian traditional style of
story-writing might be developed —if
such a thing is possible or desirable.
B. C. WOODS
Avalon Beach ( N.S.W. ).
Sir,
Gavin Casey has the true perspective
regarding your lack of good short stories.
My experience, both with my own
freelance writing and that of aspiring
writers practising the short-story art, is
that under the forced-production condi-
tions imposed by the local “buyer's”
market, only one in at least six produc-
tions can be classed as satisfactory to
author, reader and a worthwhile pub-
lisher. I have long since ceased to regard
The Bulletin as the latter and have wit-
nessed the steady literary deterioration of
your journal through the past 30 years
with regret, but without surprise.
As to Robert Dixon’s comment on the
poetry/verse/free-verse square oblong, a
constant study of this section will show
it to be mainly a circle of “established”
"A Mr Smith ordered it for his mother-in-law!”


“I think I've stumbled onto the secret of the pyramids!“
writers churning out, each in turn, arty
inanities.
I recall being told that Boote, asked if
he would be interested in some poems,
replied: “We don’t want your ‘pomes.’
Send us readable verse and, if it's good,
we’ll publish it.” A sound, reverse policy
to that which seems to govern today,
which accords preference to the sensitive,
shivering stanzas of word-enslaved
pedants in both poem and prose. Vide
Hal Porter’s story and your “Porter’s the
Word” editorial. The average reader
wants to read a story without having to
solve Porter’s ivory-tower word games.
And to award a pat on the back to Eric
Rolls for such mediocrities as the
children’s-names rhymes {vide Douglas
Stewart’s review of “Poems on Scots and
English”—Soutar) and most of his recent
contributions is astounding.
CECIL S. WATIS
Dirranbandi ( Q .).
Sir,
D. G. Belle must have read 1560-odd
issues of The Bulletin. That 15 short
stories of mine during 24 years have
partly caused D. G. Belle to abandon The
Bulletin seems unreasonable though
flattering As a less than one per cent,
catalyst I am uncertain of the need for
apology to The Bulletin but —reasonably
—I do apologise for the extraordinary
power I have over D. G. Belle.
HAL PORTER
Shepparton {Vic.).
TWO-WAY STRETCH
Sir,
E. K. Przibilla (Bulletin, July 1) has
not been, and is not, “an Adelaide Uni-
versity lecturer in economics.” While he
was in prison in 1959 the University
permitted him, on representations from
the State Technical Correspondence
School and with a view to promoting his
rehabilitation, to study English I as an
“external,” non-graduating student. In
similar circumstances in 1960 he was per-
mitted by the University to study
Accounting and Commercial Law.
V. A. EDGELSE
Registrar
The University, Adelaide.
CATHOLICS AND THE
FREE SOCIETY
Sir,
Mr R. B. Lowndes's theory (Bulletin,
July 8) that “a people nurtured on
authoritarianism are more susceptible to
accepting totalitarianism” and the facts
he uses to illustrate his theory are
interesting, but could not his facts be
interpreted in other ways?
For instance, why did England change
gradually from political and religious
authoritarianism of one form into the
democratic diversity of pressure groups
and political parties all competing for
power and influence that one finds today?
Why did not the English move from
absolute monarchy to another form of
totalitarianism? How is it that pre-
dominantly Roman Catholic countries
such as France and Italy have not used
force to stop people from voting in ways
that the Roman Catholic Church does
not approve? How dare they be so
democratic?
Were the Chinese nourished on authori-
tarianism before the Communists came
to power? Were they not rather
nourished on 30 years of war, floods and
famine with all the poverty and anarchy
that entails? Won’t a people gladly
embrace in such circumstances a creed
that promises them some peace, security
and food? Why did Germany’s attempt
at democracy fail after the 1914-18 war?
Was it only because they had been
“nourished on authoritarianism”?
Mr Lowndes’s obsession that the
minority group that is about to take
over Australia is not the Communists
as some maintain, not the Jews as some
others maintain, not Mr Menzies as still
others maintain, but the Roman Catholic
Church, is not a new idea. Mr Lowndes
is one of many Protestants who, while
refusing to remember the many non-
Roman Catholic persecutions in the past,
continually reminds us of Roman
Catholic persecutions of the past, going
back 300 years ago. How unforgiving
can mankind get? The fact that we pass
on hatred for wrongs done to our
ancestors bodes ill for the fate of the
white man as the colored man gains more
and more strength and more and more
power. However liberal-minded on the
color question we may be now, how will
they be able to forgive us for the past
iniquities of white men?
Mr Lowndes states that a “R.C. Arch-
bishop in Melbourne instructed his fol-
lowers not to vote Labor” whilst in
Sydney “another R.C. Archbishop
instructed his followers to vote Labor.”
How democratic does a Church have to
get to meet Mr Lowndes’s approval?
(MRS) P. BOYD
Oakleigh {Vic.).
Sir,
To assert, as R. B. Lowndes does, that
the encroachment of Communism upon
(largely Catholic) Eastern Europe may be
largely attributed to the existence of a
strong Catholic tradition there is to
ignore at least a couple of obviously
relevant factors: (1) contiguity to the
Soviet Union, the centre of Communist
power; (2) the golden opportunity pre-
sented to Soviet imperialism by World
War 11.
There are few Catholics in South-east
Asia, but Communism is making, with
disturbing success, the same sort of take-
over bid as in Eastern Europe.
By the way, Methodism had surely
something to do with a reaction against
Anglicanism rather than Roman
Catholicism?
D. J. BOWMAN
Newcastle ( N.S.W. ).
Sir,
Mr R. B. Lowndes’s viewpoints
strongly suggest that he look further
afield than “Roman Catholicism” as a
“prelude to Communism.” China, the
biggest “takeover” by Communism, was
anything but Catholic.
ANDREW TOBIN
Katoomba (N.S.W.).


OUT and ABOUT
Seat-warming
Tncredible as it may seem, there is
A already serious discussion among
regular first-nighters in Sydney on how
to make perfectly sure of getting seats
for the opening night of the opera
house, about three years hence. On that
historic night, when the programme is
likely to be items by superannuated
sopranos, heavily interlarded with poli-
ticians’ speeches, most of the entertain-
ment will probably be in seeing who is
in the audience.
One school of thought is that member-
ship of the Elizabethan Theatre Trust
at £5 a year is the best “in.” There are
at present about 1000 trust members in
N.S.W. Another idea is to keep up your
A.B.C. subscription concert tickets. Three
more winters in the draughty Town Hall
seems little enough to pay.
However, those who paid £lO to prc-
vide seats at the Elizabethan Theatre,
Newtown, are not likely to have much
influence. Now that the Elizabethan has
transferred to the Palace, these special
seats are only dusted off when such com-
panies as the John Alden Shakespeare
company and the Leningrad Ballet are
on at Newtown. Some of the donors’
plaques on the seats regularly disappear,
particularly those with the names of
people like Sir Laurence Olivier, and,
according to report, are now adorning
other seats in other places.
Herbert at Home
HThis week author Xavier Herbert plans
to make his first trip to Sydney for
20 years for the publication of his novel,
“Soldiers’ Women.” Author Roland
Robinson, at present on extended walk-
about, came upon Sadie and Xavier
Herbert at their home at Barron River,
North Queensland, quite by accident a
week or so ago.
Robinson had never met Herbert, who
has a reputation for being difficult to
know. However, an afternoon’s conver-
sation stretched into an evening and in
the end Robinson stayed three days at
Barron River.
Herbert introduced Robinson to Cap-
tain Percy Tresize, who flies D.C.3s on
local routes. Tresize is Xavier Herbert’s
critic and read “Soldiers’ Women” in
manuscript. Tresize is also something of
an artist and the walls of his house are
covered with his paintings of the Gulf
and Peninsula country.
When he left, Robinson said: “If I
don't go, I’ll never get to Normanton.”
Herbert replied: “1 can see you have not
shaken off the feeling of the ratrace in
Sydney yet.”
Absorbing the Shocks
The effort of switching to a mini-car
after years of handling a big car was
almost too much for one woman on
Sydney’s North Shore last week.
On her first day out with the mini-car
she parked at the local shopping centre.
When she tried to get out she absent-
mindedly gave the accelerator the pres-
sure her old car had needed. The mini-
car shot back at about 40, rammed the
BALLADE OF CERTAIN
RETURNS
“jimmy Carruthers, former world bantam-
weight champion, unbeaten in 19 professional
fights, plans a comeback.”
Like authors, actresses and cats
The boxer wont accept the sack;
The champion of nineteen spats,
Jimmy Carruthers' coming back
Resounds throughout the world of
whack
Curdling careerists of the clout:
Just as they’re on the upward track
The champ returns and knocks them out.
In mansions, cottages and flats
In sad July, insomniac
Householders take it in the slats
When all the savings they can stack
Fall to another champ’s attack.
The year revives them from the rout,
But just as red is turning black
The champ returns and knocks them out.
They balance gains like acrobats,
Doctor the chemist and the quack,
They load their kids with books and hats
And, like a dreaming poet, pack
Expenses with the life they lack ;
But when they feel they’ve won the bout
And beaten this year’s taxes crack !
The champ returns and knocks them out.
Prince (or perhaps, these days, it’s
'‘Mac”) !
Teach me deductions none can doubt:
Just as / think Eve got the knack
The champ returns and knocks thenl
out.
SWILLIAM


car behind and forced it up the pavement
where it landed in the grocer's window
among shattered glass and flying tomato-
soup tins.
Shocked by this, the woman changed
into forward and gave the accelerator
another jab. This sent her across the
busy street. She luckily missed pedes-
trians and vehicles, but landed in the
window of the greengrocer’s shop, among
the cabbages and rhubarb. After this she
just lay down on the pavement and
refused to move until an ambulance
came. But she’s just dying to give the
mini-car another whirl.
The Elusive Miss Leigh
T> eports from Melbourne show that
the locals are getting few free
glimpses of Vivien Leigh. So far she has
been to a party at the Museum of
Modern Art, to Flemington for the
Grand National Steeplechase and to the
Australian play “The One Day of the
Year,” at the Russell Street Theatre.
From Thursday’s opening night of
“Duel of Angels” until the season ends
in Melbourne on August 26 she will be
on stage day and night, playing the
current work and rehearsing the next.
Although Miss Leigh played “Duel of
Angels” in the Broadway production,
during which the rift in her marriage
to Sir Laurence Olivier first became
public, only two other members of the
cast are familiar with the play. Her
Majesty’s has been sealed to intruders
to permit intensive rehearsal.
Miss Leigh previously played in
“Twelfth Night’’ in a Stratford produc-
tion about seven years ago but she has
not yet played in “The Lady of the
Camellias.”
SOME OF THE PEOPLE
A HOBBY of collecting dolls has won
Mrs M. Neill, of Mildura, Vic., a
trip to Iraq as guest of the Iraqi Govern-
ment. Mrs Neill wrote to the Iraqi Prime
Minister, General Kassem, asking for a
doll. Correspondence with General Kas-
sem ended in the invitation to visit his
country.
Australian universities, once isolated
and neglected, were reaching indepen-
dence and maturity, according to Profes-
sor R. H. Partridge. Professor Partridge
is professor of social philosophy at the
Australian National University.
Mrs Mitsuyo Harder, of Box Hill,
Vic., wore Japanese national costume to
become an Australian citizen at a natur-
alisation ceremony at Coburg City Hall.
Sir Victor Windeyer, a Justice of the
High Court, told the Law Council of
Australia convention in Sydney that the
legal profession was not getting enough
new members to keep pace with Aus-
tralia’s development.
A. G. Bogg, South Australia’s Direc-
tor of Fisheries and Game, has sent out
250 questionnaires to determine the
extent of amateur and professional
fishing along the River Murray, and will
tabulate 8000 answers as the basis of a
report.
Perth Coroner R. P. Rodriguez said,
“I cannot understand why so many
people who travel to the country have
to go to hotels and drink.”
E. B. Walsh, S.M., ruled in Melbourne
that the breathalyser was not proved
properly in court to be a scientific
machine and that a breathalyser squad
sergeant’s knowledge of the basis of the
test was hearsay.
Anne Lenore Payne sought damages
in Brisbane on the grounds that she had
become cruel to her three children and
“behaved like a fishwife” to her husband
after a car accident.
In Brisbane Supreme Court Mrs Annie
Christina Reading was awarded £6200
damages against the estate of a grazier
who had shot her husband dead.
Migrants should speak English in their
homes, said W. G. Camington in Wall-
send (N.S.W.) Court, where his client,
Mikolay Iwasko was charged with at-
tempted bribery of a policeman. After
a traffic accident Iwasko allegedly pro-
duced a £lO note and said: “You take
this and fix up. I must go to work.”
Into the Silence:—
In Sydney, at 82, the Right. Rev. Charles
Venn Pilcher, retired Anglican Bishop-Coadjutor
of Sydney. Bishop Pilcher was ordained in
England in 1903, and came to Australia from
Wycliffe College, Toronto, in 1936. He held
the post of Coadjutor-Bishop from that year
till his retirement in 1956. A fine scholar, he
was chiefly interested in languages and music,
and had written several books.
In Brisbane, at 86, Uvedale Edward Parry-
Okeden, a pioneer Queensland grazier, and son
of W. E. Parry-Okeden, famous Queensland
Police Commissioner. As a lieutenant in the
’nineties Parry-Okeden, with Captain Chauvel
(later General Sir Harry Chauvel), led a party
of troops at Charleville to quell riots
in the shearers’ strike. In World War I
he was chief ammunition officer with the Aus-
tralian Forces, and was one of the first to win
the M.C. at the Gallipoli landing.
In Melbourne, at 62, Jack Skolnik, managing-
director of World Travel Service. As a
company-director he was responsible for bring-
ing trade orders worth millions of pounds to
Australia. Skolnik was a great benefactor of
soccer, was a patron of the Victorian Soccer
Association and a founder of the Hakoah team.
In Melbourne, at 72, George Ingram, winner
of the Victoria Cross in France in 1918.
That was Society
Ihl motor mail-vans, which descended
on Adelaide with much cough and odor
tfieir a B°’ havc handed in
m r 1™;. ' authorities missed a
”he doinp f?L • 1U COnneCtl ° n , Wlth
carbulS'st eSh/ The Toke? of U
delivered up to time as a rule, but the
supplanters slam-bangecl into town at
all hours, and oft-times not at all In
their wild burst around the suburbs
to snatch up the picture postcard and
other correspondence the machines
(mostly driven by raw recruits from
the letter-sorting department) came to
grief with a regularity that was heart-
breaking. The experiment has proved
that the motor-fiend can’t be manufac-
tured at short notice. The Australian
doesn’t live who cannot ride a horse;
but there seem to be plenty of him who
are absolutely lethal on the box-seat of a
motor. — “Bulletin,’’ July 9, 1908.
I he Bulletin has no hesitation in say-
big that the new N.S.W. penny stamp,
just issued to commemorate the Centen-
nial year, is a positive disgrace to the
colony, and should at once be withdrawn
from circulation. Whatever the design
submitted by the artist, it must obvi-
ously have been one unfit for repro-
duction in a reduced size. It does not
follow that the artist was in any way
blame; the fault lies with the in-
*»“"“»?• Wht>s '
ce ntncities and want of technical know-
weie’ no dou hb taken into con-
sideration by the draughtsman, whose
aim ’ of P 0 ™’ was the securing of the
pnz . e ' Whcnev ’er the N.S.W. Government
or its offi cials touch a matter of art or
tast . e they display the most abject vul-
gavity of nature. Post-office carvings, pos-
tage stamps, statues to dead jailers
il is all on e.—“ Bulletin”, July 28, 1888.
The chief use Victoria makes of its
abandoned mines is to find dead bodies
hi them, and the chief purpose of its
police is not to find out how the bodies
got there. Two mangled sets of remains
have just been discovered in the Rush-
worth mine, at Rushworth, and the police
wear an even less intelligent expression
than they did when the last corpse,
hi a left-off orifice at Ballarat, was dis-
covered some months ago.
—“Bulletin,” December 3, 1908


FOR THE OBSERVER
Soft-selling
Soft Drinks
“It’s about a very good friend of mine ...
Tt might interest those of us who have
A lately been dodging misguided yo-yos
spun by misguided schoolchildren to
know that the yo-yo was originally a
weapon. In Greek times it was a large
stone disc on a rope attached to the wrist.
The disc was aimed at the target, and
after a strike it returned to the thrower.
Through the ages the yo-yo got smaller,
until today when it is, roughly, yo-yo
sized
The yo-yo, in one sense, is again being
used as a weapon, a weapon in the end-
less war of sales promotion. In the past
three or four years it has in Australia
become almost the exclusive preserve of
the Coca-Cola people, who took it over
as a promotion weapon as long as 10
years ago in the United States.
As present Coca-Cola have seven people
in Australia constantly on the move
demonstrating how to play the yo-yo.
These seven experts are some of the 30
professional yo-yo players attached to
the America sports-goods firm of Dun-
can, Russell and Ives. These 30 profes-
sionals are constantly travelling on yo-yo
promotions, under agreement between
their own company and Coca-Cola.
The Australian promotion began at
the beginning of the year and will go
through to October. It is most intensive
in winter, when, of course, it is harder
to sell soft drinks.
Yo-yos, with the Coca-Cola name
stamped on each side, are made in Aus-
tralia under licence They are 3s. 6d.
each, but are officially available only on
presentation of three bottle-tops from,
of course, Coca-Cola bottles. However,
few shopkeepers are prepared to see
small children, who desperately want a
vo-yo, explode from the effort of
swallowing three bottles of soft drink at
one time. So, often the shopkeeper will
let the children buy one bottle and collect
the two extra bottle-tops from the box
of tops left by adults, who don’t want to
play the yo-yo.
The sever young men at present in
Australia on yo-yo promotion are all
champion players, although it is rather
hard to establish your title as a yo-yo
player. There are three Americans, two
Englishmen, two Scots and one Sydney
boy, David Jones, whose father works
for the local Coca-Cola bottlers.
lan Donaldson, from Glasgow, is
generally recognised as the British Empire
champion. He has been with Duncan,
Russell and Ives for three years. He was
a champion yo-yo player at school, but
took another job for a couple of years
after he left school in 1955.
The full yo-yo repertoire comprises
about 350 tricks, but Mr Donaldson
admits he can do only about 70. He
doubted that any player could do more.
Many of the tricks in his repertoire he
has invented himself, sometimes, he ad-
mitted, quite by accident when he was
trying to demonstrate another trick which
didn’t come off. His inventions include
Bank Deposit, in which the yo-yo goes
from his right hand, around his back and
lands —well, nearly always—in his left-
hand coat pocket.
Mr Donaldson said there was great
rivalry between professional yo-yo
players. “If lam working on a new trick
and I see another player approaching I
will turn my back so that he can’t sec
what is going on,” he admitted.
The yo-yo demonstrators give most of
their shows in schools. The Coca-Cola
company has not sought the permission
of the Education Department in the
various States, but relies on getting the
consent of the headmaster or headmistress
of each school.
“Most of the heads co-operate,” Mr
Donaldson said, “particularly when we
tell them that the first thing we demon-
strate is how to use a yo-yo safely. In
fact, about 95 per cent, co-operate. The
best of all are the convent schools. We’ve
never had a knock-back from a convent.
Those nuns are marvellous. They just
say ‘How much will it cost us?’ and when
we say it won't cost anything, they say
‘Go right ahead.’ ”
During the present promotion there are
constant city and district championships
with prizes such as stereograms, watches
and cameras.
“The competitions are based on eight
simple tricks—Spinning, Walking the
Doggie, Walkaway, Rocking the Baby,
Round the Corner, Over the Falls, Three-
Leaf Clover and Looping the Loop,” Mr
Donaldson explained. “If the contest
is even up to Looping the Loop, then
it is judged on how long the contestant
can keep looping the loop, My best total
is 620 times, but I have seen a kid keep
it up 700 times.”
Mr Donaldson said the big thing in the
yo-yo world now was to get it recognised
as a sport and not regarded just as a game.
“We hope to get an association going and
to run proper championships,” he said.
“At present, you just don’t get the good
players together for world contests and
things like that.”
He said there was no reason why the
yo-yo should be regarded as something
just for children. One of the current crop
of professionals in Australia, American
Phil Murray, was in his forties and had
been playing the yo-yo for 26 years.
Mr Donaldson said he expects to make
a lifetime career as a professional yo-yo
player. “If you really litce the yo-yo you
never get sick of it,” he explained. “I
like it.”


SPORT
Chances in
Wills £3000
A ustralian chances of landing the big
money in the “Wills £3ooo'’ at the
Lakes Golf Club in October will be
shaded by the presence among the 31 top
professional contenders of America’s
Arnold Palmer and South Africa’s Gary
Player, both of whom have repeatedly
demonstrated what distinguished a cham-
pion from a merely excellent golfer.
Canadian Stan Leonard will also be a
starter who could make it hard for the
28 Australian contenders to get their
hands anywhere near the money. These
28 Australians—l 6 will have qualified
through a £5OO tournament at Belmont,
N.S.W. ; seven will be the leaders in the
Victorian Open ; and five will come from
other States —will include Peter Thom-
son and Kel Nagle, perhaps the only two
of the home-grown golfers about whom
bookmakers might be cautious.
But, in this field, only Palmer and
Player are “top top pros.” Now what is
a top top pro.? Doesn't Thomson
qualify? Doesn’t Leonard? Hasn't
Thomson got four British Opens to his
credit? Perhaps Thomson does qualify.
Consistency, capture of the major tourna-
ments, ability to play a great shot when
it is most needed, all enable one to pick
out the (few) champions of the past. It
is these qualities which distinguish Palmer
and Player, the champions of today.
Arbitrary judgment apart, what puts
any golfer on the prize-list? Three things
—hard work, concentration and confi-
dence. Without them you cannot make
the grade. The more you have the higher
on the list you will be.
No one was more confident than Gary
Player before this year's Masters tourna-
ment. “I hate to tell you how well I’ve
been playing,” he said after his last prac-
tice round —then went out and won.
“Who’s going to come second today ?”
Walter Hagen would say.
Hard work? In a foreword to Ben
Hogan’s “Power Golf,” Ed Dudley says:
“I’ve seen Ben miss a two-iron shot and
then, after that round, take his caddy and
go out on the practice tee and practise
nothing but similar shots for hours at a
time.”
If the mental strain is so great for
acknowledged champions, what will it be
for the competing Australians? With
few exceptions, Australian professionals
cannot make a living from tournament
golf. They have to do a great deal of
teaching,, and run a shop attached to a
c J ub - Naturally their game suffeis. And
!f their game is not sure, if there is a
? bir }k in tben golfing armor, they are
likely to be found out at the most vital
timeS-
Even Australians who have made the
break and sought fortune on the Ameri-
can circuit have suffered from the lack
of hard play and hard competition at
home. Bruce Crampton, a particularly
fine golfer, has been one of the sufferers.
It seeems that he has never realised just
how hard he has to work to get to the
top. In Australia he could finish at the
top of the prize list without effort. In
America, he has to contend with fifty,
not five, golfers who make a living solely
from tournament play.
That he has not worked hard enough
can be seen from his comments during the
U.S. Open. Confidence has not replaced
cockiness. “Four of those and I will sit
in the clubhouse and wait to be beaten,”
he said after a first-round 71. He repeated
the score in the second round, then blew
out to finish well behind the winner. And
it is worth noting that four 71s would not
have won.
Two young Australians who have
recently turned pro., Bruce Devlin and
Ted Ball, may well learn how high their
sights must be set. Both have played
overseas as amateurs and both, early in
their professional careers, will have ex-
perience in playing with overseas stars
at home. If they knuckle down to the
job they could well become “top tops.”
Perhaps they have the sort of zeal to
match the fanaticism revealed in such a
statement, say, as Hogan's “I haven't
seen more than five putters in my life
that, when examined closely, weren’t
hooked.” If so, they may yet oust the
Palmers and Players from favoritism.
FOOD AND DRINK
How to Boil
an Egg
'T'bese days most cookery books are
judged more for their literary value
than for the excellence of their recipes.
A writer is much more likely to get a
cookery book published if he can include
some anecdotes of memorable meals with
famous people (“I dined with the
Windsors every Friday”), or even if he
has a good “get-in’’ title (“Cookery for
Deserted Husbands”) than if he has a
stack of tried and tested recipes that a
dyspeptic couldn't jump over.
In fact, the avant-garde writers of
cookery books give no recipes at all.
These are the cookery-books-to-curl-up-
with. You can sit and read them happily
for a couple of hours, and then go out
into the kitchen and ease your hunger
with a cheese sandwich.
Mrs Winifred Savage and her pub-
lishers, Angus and Robertson, apparently
have no truck with this sort of affecta-
tion. From washable cover to washable
cover, Mrs Savage’s book “A Treasury
of Good Recipes” is just what it claims
to be —a treasury of good recipes.
However, the preliminary chapters,
devoted to information on the equip-
ment needed for a modern kitchen and
to menu-planning, are extremely scant.
It would, perhaps, have been better to
have left them out altogether.
If the book is intended for absolute
beginners in the kitchen, it is then rather
foolish to give a list of kitchen require-
ments which would involve spending a
couple of hundred pounds. If the cook
is only a beginner, she might later find
that some of this equipment -say, those
two sets of gem irons and the lamington
tin, which Mrs Savage lists—never leaves
the overcrowded kitchen-cupboards.
The soundest advice, perhaps, to give
a new cook is to buy nothing until you
need it —even if the moment you need
it is at 7 o’clock on the night of your
first dinner party when a whole course
will be ruined just because you don't
have that one piece of kitchen equipment.
Mrs Savage seems to have no clear
idea at whom the book is directed. If
it is meant for inexperienced cooks, then
the advice given in the first chapters is
too restricted and could be misleading.
If the book is meant for experienced
cooks, why on earth is is necessary to
give four recipes for boiling eggs?


Faith in ihe
Fidunc
Northern Australia has become one of the
world’s major potential sources of bauxite. Some
authorities place its reserves at possibly three
thousand million tons.
Yet it was only in 1955 that the quality and
extent of the bauxite in Cape York Peninsula was
recognised. Some samples had, however, been
identified in 1947.
The sweep of discovery now takes in the
enormously rich Weipa field, other deposits being
prospected in the Peninsula, and those across at
Gove in the Northern Territory.
Weipa alone entails an investment of forty
million pounds to make a port, build a town and
establish an alumina plant. The integrated plan
for its development will require up to one hundred
million additional pounds for a hydro-powered
smelter in the South Island of New Zealand and
extension of the treatment plant at Bell
Bay, Tasmania.
Were this the only sign of a steady realisation
of our northern mineral hopes it would be
dramatic enough. But it is seen again in the
world-famous Mount Isa mineral field, which was
a craggy wilderness in 1923. Today the expansion
of Mount Isa’s production justifies the rebuilding
of the railway line in from Townsville at a cost
approaching thirty million pounds.
The point about these and similar multi-million
enterprises is their newness. Mount Isa has risen
from nothing in fewer than forty years. The
bauxite discoveries are as yet only in single-figure
years in terms of age.
To draw particular attention to them does
not detract from whatever is going on
developmentally elsewhere in Australia. But it
does underline something we should keep clearly
in mind whenever short-range problems come to
cloud the nation’s sight. And it is this:
Everything we plan and do must be focused
on the fruitful years ahead. Australia is only in
the prosperous making. The extent of its natural
wealth is still being gradually revealed. And its
future will be bounded only by the courage with
which we go all-out now to raise it into
quicker life.
Feiffer
I've Been lmhjg here
a UXi6 TIME 7RM/UG
TO FIGURE out The
RIGHT ANSWERS
Bur r auasr
COME OP WITH
Ak)M.
BO AFTER &W6ITA
LOT Of THOUGHT I
couciuvev ne less
IMfoeTADT To KMOW
the RIGHT ANSWERS
THAN TO 06 ABU TO
fIIRASE THE RIGHT
goestioms
M T TH e ohm ouesnov
t could cme up ui ra
WAS • HOU BUM- fcJHM
ARE MOO WU&
eo i finally. saw that rue
ROOT Of MM PROBLEM lam
MEITNER HO FIUI7IM6 THE RIGHT
ANSWER NOR HO PHRASING
the right Queemoub-
the root of mm problem
lam Id THE AuMRENEEE
that, if the jeiewr f?ufETK>'
OOOU> 06 PKRfaSO IH6K
A RIOHT AMiOBR OVOOUPteoiM
MI6UT 06 FOOWP
W, WOOWMJ& THft HA 4 --
A UOUJ6O ME TO tieA*K£6Mp
T«e SHALLOW PIE6MHA of
E66tOd6 AltettJEßS OR
PHRAEIU6 £|U6OT(O(O6. id
ORPER tp ASSUA66 - MM
6016 T. t FOOD AT fcAW
m iT3 isevi fAote That
I UE MERE Ah T MOW 6/T'
IM
609W1U6-


AB O RIGI N ALITIES
The Wake of
“The Royal”
At a time when the coveted invitations
are those to the opening of glittering
new hotels, it was something of a novelty
to be invited to a closing-down party.
The occasion was to mark the end of
“The Royal” at Gulgong, one of the few
remaining bush pubs left over from the
roaring days of the N.S.W. gold rushes.
Those were the days when Gulgong,
with a population of 35,000, had 47
hotels and wine-shops. With “The
Royal” gone the present-day population
(1890) are left with four pubs and three
licensed clubs.
Gulgong’s Mayne Street is narrow and
winding, and the sprawling, single-
storeyed pub building sits right in the
middle of the road, which swerves
sharply around the corner of the front
verandah. One gets the impression that
Mayne Street was once a track leading
directly to the front door of the old
“Royal.”
The wake started when the bar opened
for business on Friday, June 30, the last
day of the licence. It continued for 24
hours unabated, and then sporadically for
two more days. The reminiscing and
drinking were interspersed with music,
singing and dancing. Further entertain-
ment was provided when one or two
differences of opinion were settled sum-
marily and quietly in the backyard.
T>y midday the celebration is gathering
_ pace. A rock-’n’-roll guitar is twang-
ing away in the parlor with a lusty
chorus: “Roll me over in the clover . . ”
Somebody throws over my accordion:
“Give us a Scotchy. A good lively
one.”
I give with “The Muckin’ of Geordie’s
Byre” and follow up with “Cock o’ the
North” for good measure. A fettler
jumps up and does a nimble step-dance
encouraged by claps and cheers.
“Not bad, Charlie. You haven’t got
many steps, but you’ve got plenty of
style! ”
The guitar has moved out to the bar,
and the young bloke from the extra gang
sings “The Street Where You Live.”
Enid MacKenzie, our hostess, stops
pulling beers for a moment and leans
over the bar to listen. This is her
favorite song.
The beer is flowing faster now. A few
people drift away to have dinner, and
more people arrive from outlying
areas.
“I used to have the licence here,” says
Keith Murray. “I’ve got the record for
the shortest stay—l 2 days .. .”
“Hey, Snake-bite,” from someone over
near the fire. “Do you remember the
time young Max Riley rode his horse
through the passage?”
“Yes, he did, too. He was going to ride
it into the bar, but someone shut the
door . .
“I was born here,” from another rail-
way worker. “My grandmother bought
out old Josh Davis, and I was born out
there in number seven. Ah, well, they
reckon you always keep coming back to
the place you were born in, so I've got a
good excuse for always being here . . .”
The afternoon passes too quickly and
the evening session is going full swing.
It seems that every drinker in town is
determined to have one at “Mrs Mac’s”
on her last day. There are three
accordions now and two guitars. The
singing seems to be improving as the
evening goes on, but no one listens very
much until Herbie Tattersall arrives with
a queer zither-like instrument that is
called a guitar-banjo-mandolin.
“Here’s Herbie with his harp! Quiet
everybody! ”
Herbie sets the instrument down on
the table and, seating himself, plays the
beautiful old waltz tune “A Starry Night
for a Ramble.” It sounds like a caril-
lon of little bells, and there is absolute
silence from the crowded bar-room. Then
Ronnie MacGuire gets his guitar and
beefs out the latest parody, “The Pub
With No Dike.” It is an immediate
success, and he has to sing it at half-
hourly intervals for the rest of the
night . . .
Ten o'clock and closing time. The
doors are closed, the till also, and we are
now guests at Mrs Mac's private party.
After midnight the crowd slowly
dwindles to about 50 of the more sea-
soned drinkers. There is room now for
some dancing, and the old bush accordion
and the rock-'n’-roll guitar manage to get
together on a few tunes. There is still
plenty of singing.
Tonally, at five-thirty, with the roosters
crowing and dawn becoming
apparent, I struck up “Auld Lang Syne.”
One woman immediately burst into
tears. A circle was formed and we dis-
posed of the song in the traditional
manner, then there were more moist eyes
as some of the ladies said their fare-
wells.
After a few hours’ sleep l returned to
the bar to find the numbers still un-
diminished, and with some more music
and songs the wake carried on till about
ten o’clock, when by general agreement
it was decided that the old “Royal” had
been decently interred.
There was only one floral tribute. A
wreath of pepper-tree leaves hung sadly
on the front door bearing a large card
inscribed with R.1.P., under which an
anonymous hand had scrawled “Return
If Possible.”
JOHN MEREDITH
That Was the Country
In a Victorian backblox settlement a
little old maiden lady keeps a school. Her
pupils comprise 10 boys and 12f girls, the
other quarter having been amputated after
an argument with a fox-trap. To keep the
boys amused on “rag day,” when the girls
are learning to tuck and hem, she formed
a cadet corps. “Eyes front!” she yells
in a field-marshal tone of voice. “Left
turn!—face to’rds Patsy Brannigan’s!”
“Quick march!”—and she conducts them
into the bush about a mile away, and
commands each cadet to arm himself
with a rifle. Back they march to the
schoolyard and go through a few more
exercises from the old drill book. “Pre-
sent arms!” The boys present with
vigor. “Ground arms!”—with still more
vigor. And the old lady gets firewood
for the rest of the week.
— “Bulletin,” January 21, 1904.
Laidley (Queensland) is practically a
German settlement. One of its curiosities
is the German wagon—a long, low,
springless affair with backless seats. It
is used as a family coach; will carry about
three tons of produce; and makes an
excellent hearse. The driver sits on
the left-hand side and takes the right-
hand side of the road. On Sunday a
long procession of these vehicles is to
be seen going to the Church. They
draw up at the pub, and jugs of beer are
brought out to the women. The inhabi-
tants are not troubled with the “Tired
Feeling” in those parts. Women plough,
harrow, cut and draw wood, and do all
manner of field work, dressed in moles
and shirt, or else in a short petticoat
with bare legs. They look hard, work
hard, and live hard, these settlers from
the Fatherland.
— “Bulletin,” March 31, 1908.
Two of the horny-handed were dis-
cussing wine. “My word,” said one,
“I got some grand wine once. It was
as thick as treacle and as strong as
rum.” — “Bulletin,” July 13, 1901.


The Red Page
Women with the Brakes Off
By RONALD McCUAIG
Soldiers’ Women. Xavier Herbert.
Angus and Robertson. 30s.
The 23 years since publication of
“Capricornia” have not only
developed Xavier Herbert’s ability to
write, but also to handle an entirely
different scene. In “Soldiers’ Women”
the gaunt, sparsely populated North
gives place to the crowded turbulence
of a city on the eastern coast. His range
of people, which in “Capricornia” never
rose higher than a few seedy members
of the middle class, increases to include
women of old-established families and
beautiful society women, and descends
to prostitutes. One says women, because
Australian men hardly appear in this
book: where “Capricornia” was a grim,
sad story of a way of life which, although
it suffered the privations of the outback,
was normal in that they would continue,
“Soldiers’ Women” is a bravura work',
a tour de force dependent, like the
“Lysistrata,” on the men being away at
the war; it is a few years when the
restrictions of the normal way cf life
are lifted, giving way to confusion and
orgy.
Herbert’s success in this new book is
in the degree to which he has been able
to take in the full scale of this confusion
and orgy, and in the degree to which
he has been able to control it and give
it form. It begins comically at a Central
Station, with the exhibitionist collapse
of a wife who has seen her husband off
to the war. Two beautiful members of
the Red Cross want to take her and her
family home in their car. But the
matriarchal mother-in-law of one of
tllem, sensing the Lesbian affection of
the two women, both wives of officers,
forbids her daughter-in-law, Rosa, to go.
So the other woman, Ida, drives the
family to the outer suburbs, picking up
also a pair of teenage prostitutes,
escapees from a reformatory, and drop-
ping them at their flat on the way.
Pudsey, the older daughter of the
suburban family, takes advantage of the
drive to get herself a job as housemaid
in Ida’s beautiful harborside home ; an
efficient cook and housekeeper, she is
immediately a success with Ida s two
children, and frees Ida to help in the
freeing of Rosa from her mother-in-law.
For Mrs La Plante the matriarch, a
formidable figure in city society, had
used all her influence to get her son
married to Rosa, a girl from a good
grazier family, and away from Lolly,
daughter of a wealthy storekeeping
family. The old woman wanted a grand-
son, and to this purpose pulled strings to
have her Air Force son kept out of
danger until Rosa should have a child.
Rosa is already pregnant, but has become
so rebellious against the old woman that
she is determined not to have the baby.
Meanwhile Pudsey’s posturing mother
has inveighed against her daughter’s be-
coming a common servant. Pudsey goes
home, goes with two other schoolgirls
to meet American soldiers in the city,
is found out at school, leaves home, gets
a job in a milk bar, is plagued by a
horrible American sergeant who prac-
tically rapes her, and makes contact
again with the two young prostitutes of
the first car-drive. Remembered by Ida,
they have already given Rosa the means
of procuring her abortion. Now they
give young Pudsey a home. But the hue
and cry is up ; the three young girls are
brought in by the police after an Ameri-
can soldier has missed his money ; the
escapees are sent back to the reforma-
tory, while Pudsey escapes from some
kind of probatidnal custody and. in some
of Ida’s discarded finery, meets an
American desk-colonel, and goes to live
with him as his mistress.
By this time Ida and Rosa have been
having a succession of affairs with a
succession of Americans they meet at
the Hotel Harlequin, the city's plush pub.
They often take them out to Ida’s gold-
plated weekender with the cool tunnel
to the cliff. Rosa’s mother-in-law, aided
by her husband's discarded mistress,
Lolly, stages raids with bowler-hatted
private detectives. Lolly invites Rosa
and Ida to wild parties with American
servicemen to compromise them further.
The alternation of the orgies of the rich
with the crude celebrations of the two
young prostitutes and Pudsey in the flat
they have turned into a brothel are be-
coming monotonous. The comic air with
which the book started has long been
left behind in a confusion of savage
lust and seems to have no end and no
meaning.
It is here that the story goes into its
third, and tragic phase, as Herbert draws
together the various actions he has
started. Safely established with her
adoring old colonel, Pudsey is traced by
Fay, one of the young prostitutes with
whom she was living. Fay has headed
a breakout from the reformatory in
which a wardress was murdered ; the
police are after her. She will not trust
Pudsey even to go out and buy food.
Pudsey takes her to Ida’s weekender,
murders her with one of the tablets used
to procure Rosa’s abortion, drags her
down the tunnel and throws her over
the cliff.
Back on the upper level, Rosa has
been visited by Felicia, the pale daughter
of her matriarch mother-in-law. Now
it is Felicia who is pregnant. She has
been Rosa’s informant of moves being
made against her by the matriarch ; and
Rosa, not to let her down, gives her the
same means to abortion that she has
used herself. But Felicia, with a weak
heart, dies. Because they are in Ida’s
house, Rosa throws the body out and
drops it in the harbor. She is seen by
Pudsey, who has escaped from a brothel
where she was hiding from the police,
and is now hiding in Ida’s grounds. Thus
Pudsey gets Ida and Rosa into her power,
and later, when she joins a troupe of
prostitutes run by the horrible taxi-driver
who has followed her throughout her
curious career, she is able to stage a
drunken party with her friends in Ida’s
house while Ida and her children stand
outside, unable to do anything about it.
Finally Ida sends for a huge American
captain she is fond of ; he moves the
party out, and Ida adjourns with him
to the boathouse. Her house goes up
in flames and burns Pudsey and the
children to death. As the captain moves
towards the house to save the children,
Ida restrains him: she is tired of her
house, she does not want her children,
she did not really want her husband.
All she wants is the big captain ; and
later she goes off with him.
Rosa is beaten up by another Ameri-
can officer who screams that she has
given him venereal disease, and is left
thinking it over in hospital—but the big
blow of the book is reserved for the
matriarch. First she is told that her son
has been killed in action ; next she has
to identify her daughter, Felicia, in the
morgue. She suffers a stroke ; but then
Lolly comes to see her: she had made
it up with the son on his last leave, and
is carrying his child.
If this all seems melodramatic in
precis, it does not in the book. Herbert
has of course taken all the possibilities
of his situation and played them to their
utmost. In Ida, for instance, he has
taken a woman who might in normal
times have gone happily on living, a
respected wife and mother, unaware her-
self, even, of any dissatisfaction with
her husband or her way of life. But the
new circumstances transform what might
have been a subconscious wish into fact:,
calmly she watches her children and her
house burn.
Herbert’s portraiture is excellent
throughout the book: the evil and know-
ing taxi - driver - pimp ; the straight-
forward, boy-like girl, Fay ; the efficient
old brothel-madam; the matriarch’s
brave and perplexed and spoiled son ; the
flamboyant, direct Lolly ; the pure and
beautiful Selina, one of Ida’s neighbors,
who almost goes off with a cultured
American geologist but turns away at
the last moment —even the matriarch,
most near to caricature, will seem by
no means overdrawn to those who have
seen the effect of wealth and power on
old age.
In a book which is largely a treatise
on lust Herbert’s main conclusion is
rather unusual. Not only Australians,
but also Americans, he says, were lousy
lovers. Charming or overwhelming as
was the American approach, it mostly
left the women unsatisfied. But not the
reader. It is a brilliant book, of people
and scenes richly colored and beautifully
controlled.


THE AUSTRALIAN QUARTERLY
“Best general periodical issued in Australia”
AUSTRALIA U. N. Series
CONTENTS
June 1961
THE COLOMBO PLAN .. G. M. Bryant
APARTHEID: BATTLE FOR THE MIND . C. M. Tatz
ABORIGINAL EDUCATION IN NEW SOUTH WALES J. H. Bell
AUSTRALIAN UNIVERSITIES COMMISSION REPORT:
A CRITICISM .. .. .. .. .. .. D. C. Rowan
THE AUSTRALIAN MEAT INDUSTRY J. L. Shute
AGRICULTURE IN KENYA AND NEW GUINEA A. M Healy
International and Political Reviews; Book Reviews; Drama
Annual Subscription: 16/- (four issues) Single copy 4/-
To: Australian Institute of Political Science 34 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Please enrol me as a subscriber to the AUSTRALIAN QUARTERLY
for which I enclose the sum of 167-
NAME (Block letters)
ADDRESS
Israel Today
TT»e Revival of Israel. L. Ellis
Tavener. Hodder and Stoughton.
1961. 18s. 9d.
On a recent visit to Israel I was told
the story of an American tourist.
Conscious of his own country’s early his-
tory and fusing of many races, he was
struck by numerous parallels in the just
13-years-old State. He wished to con-
gratulate the young Israeli, who acted as
his guide and host. He said: “Your
country reminds me so much of a melting
pot.” “You are wrong,” the proud
pioneer replied. “Israel is not a melting
pot. It is a pressure cooker.”
L. E. Tavener, Senior Lecturer in the
Department of Geography at Southamp-
ton University, has made the develop-
ment of Israel the topic of his book. It
relates the rebirth of the Jewish State
in May, 1948, and the attainments of the
first decade which, to the author, appear
as one of the most remarkable events of
the century.
Within ten years, he reminds us, the
Jewish population grew from 600,000 in
1948 to two million. The immigrants
came from 80 different countries, as far
removed as Peru and Thailand. The
people came from places not merely
thousands of miles apart, but thousands
of years apart.
Irrigation of arid land has multiplied
fourfold. Fascinating experiments re-
suited in vast schemes of the de-salina-
tion °f sea-water and the harnessing of
solar energy. Exploration for oil was
started only in 1953, but five years later
seven oil companies were active, produc-
-80,000 tons of crude oil per annum,
Where land used to yield two crops
annually it now produces four to six
crops, and, in the south, where nothing
grew, the land has been brought under
cultivation.
Industry presents a similar picture. In
t be very area where almost three millen-
uia ago King Solomon mined copper,
modern smelting plants have resumed his
work. Geologists estimate deposits
exceeding 20 million tons. The Dead Sea
has become a “fluid mine.” Its contents
in potassium and bromine salts alone are
considered sufficient to meet world de-
mands for centuries. The application of
solar evaporation is producing here most
remarkable results in chemical deposi-
tion. In book production Israel ranks
third among the nations on a per cap.ta
basis in the number of new titles pub-
lished every year.
Tavener’s book, however, valuable as
it is, contains many inaccuracies. The
State of Israel was resuscitated after a
dispersion of the Jewish people not of
“more than two and a half millennia”
(page 13) but of just under two millennia
(since 70 a.d.). To call the God of Israel
“Jehovah” is a common mistake (pages
15 and 23). There never was such a
name. It is a perpetuation of the
medieval wrong-rendering of Jahveh.
A little checking up, especially by a
Professor of Geography, would have
assured at least the correct spelling of
place names, found on any map. The
most northern village of Israel is not
Metually (page 55) but Metulla. In
Hebrew the “House of Jacob” is Baith
Ya’aqov and not Ya’acor (page 71).
Moshav Ovdim (and not the unpronounc-
able Ovdm) is the type of co-operative
settlement to which Tavener wishes to
refer (pages 73 and 112 as well as in the
index). The plural of Kibbutz is Kib-
butzim and of Moshavah Moshavot, and
to speak of “two Kibbutz” hurts the ears
of even a little informed student of Israeli
settlements.
Other mistakes are related to nuclear
power (building operations have started
on a nuclear reactor at Beersheba) and
the description of land tenure ; and in
referring to the contribution of world
Jewry to the settlement of Israel (page
31) the author omits to mention the South
African community who, per capita, even
exceeded Americans in their share in the
revival of the Holy Land.
Tavener also fails in the explanation
of the Arabs’ “flight” from Israel. It was
not just “some unaccountable reason”
that made those 300,000 Arabs leave the
country. Neither was it mere panic. _lt
was, in no small measure, due to explicit
directions given to them by their own
leaders, outside Palestine. They were
asked immediately to leave but, at the
same time, given the promise that their
absence would be merely temporary, as
they were to march back with the vic-
torious Arab army within a few weeks,
pushing the Israelites into the sea!
R. BRASCH
Waite and See
Perchance to Bowl. John Waite.
Nicholas Kaye Ltd. 18s.
According to John Waite, it is not
South Africa’s whites but the colored
people who make it impossible for any
but lily-white cricketers to play Test
matches there, as yet. It is his view that
the colored population of South Africa
has not yet arrived at the point, psycho-
logically, where it could fail to make a
riot of either victory or defeat in a mere
game.
Waite, a peaceable cricketer of no-
strings affection for the Caribbean
cricketers with whom he has fraternised
so happily in countries other than his
own, is entitled to a hearing on this
point. The violence of partisan crowds
in the West Indies, where multi-racial
cricket is allowed and enjoyed, does not
leave much doubt about how similar
games might fare in South Africa where
the racial ferment is angrier, uglier and
potent with holocaust.


Waite’s book, whimsically titled from
a mere wicketkeeper’s adaptation of
Hamlet’s “perchance to dream,” is not
entirely his own work. Australian Dick
Whitington, now working on a Johannes-
burg newspaper, is the acknowledged
editor of the work and, presumably, of
the somewhat desperate belletrism which
obtrudes from time to time, such as the
long early stretch where cricket is a
woman running a career from virginity
to courtesanship. Metaphors profit from
brevity, as “The New Yorker,” quoting
me, has instructed!
Waite, probably the greatest wicket-
keeper-batsman of his generation, dis-
cusses several highly contentious matters
besides the racial problem in cricket. He
talks of the possibility that last year’s
“chuck” no-balling in England of South
Africa’s Griffin was a plot to make
Griffin the “John the Baptist” for Aus-
tralia’s Meckiff, Rorke and Slater this
year. /
He talks of the obsessions of
Australian-born Gubby Allen, now all-
powerful in the backroom of English
cricket, but nowhere goes beyond implica-
tions as he discusses the Laker-flattering
pitches of Australia’s previous tour of
England. He talks of English umpiring,
too, without going beyond implications
of its pigheadedness and megalomania.
It is not an outstanding cricket book, but
I enjoyed reading it at one gulp.
LINDSRY BROWNE
The Hero as Egoist
No Latitude for Error. Sir Edmund
Hillary. Hodder and Stoughton.
31s. 9d.
''This book, about the Antarctic explora-
tions of 1955-1958, comes three years
after “The Crossing of Antarctica,” by
Sir Vivian Fuchs and Sir Edmund Hillary,
which gave the official account of the
Commonwealth Trans-Antarctic Expedi-
tion. Hillary explains in his foreword
that it is a personal book, recreating “the
whole adventure as I lived it at the time
—my pleasures or disappointments, suc-
cesses or failures.” Yet behind the per-
sonal story, as he immediately points out,
there is the first New Zealand Antarctic
Expedition, “which though an integral
part of the Commonwealth Trans-Antarc-
tic Expedition yet had very much an
entity of its own.”
This is exactly the pattern of the book.
The first interest is in Hillary as a man,
a leader and a hero of our time; the
underlying theme is that New Zealand
and British do not mean quite the same
thing. The frontispiece shows Hillary
and Fuchs looking rather warily at each
other soon after the arrival at the Pole
of Fuchs and his party from the Weddell
Sea. Hillary of course should not have
been at the South Pole at all ; he had got
there in his team of battered Ferguson
farm tractors by applying the old Nelson
technique to any messages that he found
a hindrance to his enthusiasm. As Hillary
says himself, the whole thing was an
“adventure”; given his temperament and
ability, who can blame him?
Hillary first learned of Bunny Fuchs’s
“uncompromising stubbornness” on the
Theron which, despite the efforts of the
redoubtable Captain Maro, soon got
stuck in the ice by following Fuchs’s un-
conventional route through the Weddell
Sea. One senses that after this episode
cordiality was preserved with the utmost
determination. With the unfolding of
further details of the planning and equip-
ment the impression emerges strongly
that on the one hand there were the
British, with their fiddly, old-fashioned
equipment and their moral obligation to
Be as uncomfortable as possible, and on
the other the New Zealanders with their
modern huts after the style of those used
by the Americans, Russians and Austra-
lians, and their belief that the mortifying
of the flesh is not strictly necessary.
Though Hillary pays full tribute to the
scientific and exploratory work carried
out in the forays of the other members of
the N.Z. Expedition, the chief interest of
his book naturally falls on the tractor
journey that, beginning as a means of
laying depots for Fuchs’s crossing party,
ended as a dash for the Pole. They
pushed on through appalling conditions,
toppling into and scrambling out of cre-
vasses, occasionally enjoying some “superb
weather—a temperature of only minus
12 deg. F and no wind.” Nobody was
killed and they had to abandon only a
Weasel ; all the tractors made it. The
practical heroes of the expedition were
undoubtedly the mechanics who kept the
vehicles and sledges going, with some
amazing improvisation in cold that made
the unscrewing of a nut a difficult task.
An outsider cannot help wondering
what was the point of it all. Fuchs was
chugging along slowly with his huge
Sno-cats and his trail of seismic ex-
plosions ; the Americans were sitting in
luxury in their South Pole Base, with
aeroplanes laid on for every emergency ;
the N.Z. scientific parties were at work.
However, there is frequently little point
to brave and dashing actions. The hero
is egoist enough to tackle them, and his
actions help for a little while to redeem
the petty actions of ordinary life.
Hillary is certainly an egoist. Take the
episode when the Theron first became
stuck in the ice. In “The Crossing of
Antarctica” Fuchs writes: “Day after
day, time after time, for hours on end,
everyone was over the side with axes,
shovels, boards and boat-hooks, to clear
the ice from the side of the ship.” In
“No Latitude for Error” Hillary writes:
“I wasn’t in the mood to stand around
and wait for things to improve so jumped
overboard and started chipping away at
the ice to open up a small channel along
the starboard side. Before long I was
joined by the usual band of enthusiasts
Song for the Cattle
Down the red stock route
Hock-deep in mirage
Rode the three black drovers
Singing to the cattle
And with them a young woman,
Perhaps some squatter’s daughter
From homestead or township,
Who turned her horse easily.
To my mind she was as beautiful
As the barmaid in Brewarrina
Who works at the Royal. Men
Ride all day to see her.
Fine-boned as a brigalow
Yet ample as a granary,
She has teeth good for laughing
Or biting an apple.
I’m thinking of quitting
My mountain selection,
The milking at morning
And the lonely axe-echoes ;
Of swapping my slab hut
For a rolled-up blanket
And heading north-westward
For a life in the saddle —
For the big mobs trailing
Down the empty stock routes,
A horned moon at evening
And songs round the campfire.
Yes, I’ll soon be drinking
At the Royal in Brewarrina
And ambling through mirage
With the squatter’s daughter.
DAVID CAMPBELL
Lullaby
Living together you and I
create a shelter for our child
and all the dangers of the sky
and all the terrors of the world
we must withstand, we must withhold
that she sleep soundly, peacefully
Moving together, separately,
we must reach a single home
we must be a unity
to be a place where she may come
without distress and without harm
and sleep here soundly, peacefully
Moving independently
as flesh beyond ourselves she lives
who was ourselves most secretly.
And far beyond our grasp of loves
beyond ourselves we join our lives
that she sleep soundly, peacefully.
Pull back the net and let me see
the marvellous terror of her trust.
And darling, stand here close to me
—who is the owner? which the
guest? —
we two are in a place most blessed.
She sleeps here soundly, peacefully.
THOMAS W. SHAPCOTT


BOOKHUNTER
l»ept. *‘I)" llo* 2671, fi.1'.0., Sydney.
A service lor readers. That difficult to
olduin volume, let u» find il for you—fiction,
text hook, biography, history, etc. .Moderate
tee only it successful.'
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-prinic
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
.. . . ” A list of names follows, not
including that of Fuchs.
Or take the difficulties of navigating
the vehicles through white-outs, after
Hillary had joined Fuchs at Depoi 700
as guide. Fuchs writes: “We therefore
devised a method by which the markers
were placed alternately by two men riding
on the sledges of the leading vehicle.” In
Hillary’s book it goes: “I remembered a
method of steering ... I suggested it to
Bunny ... I asked Bunny to try another
variation ...”
When Hillary is boss, amongst his
New Zealanders, there is no trouble. He
just does not seem to be the man for a
Number Two. On his own authority,
he has a hearty splendor that carries the
book along despite the endlessly repeti-
tive detail, and there is plenty of humor
and good fellowship. It is fitting that
Hillary should be at his best on Everest
and at the Pole, where there is a cold
ruthlessness in the elements that calls to
the blizzard at the hero’s heart.
GEOFFREY DUTTON
Looking Homeward
Thomas Woife. A Biography. Eliza-
beth Nowell. Heinemann. 51s. 6d.
TPhomas Wolfe, author of “Look
Homeward, Angel,” “The Web and
the Rock,” “You Can’t Go Home
Again,” etc., is an awkward subject for
the biographer. In life as in his work
he could be absurd and tiresome ; he
had a way of blowing up every feeling
he had into a passion, often the wind-
and-water passion of the self-centred.
What he lacked in his work, as Scott
Fitzgerald once told him, was discrimina-
tion : giving every experience the same
value, he could throw none into relief.
In life he was the shambling, six-and-a-
half-foot archetype of the “sensitive
young man with artistic leanings,” living
on a heavy emotional overdraft, over-
sensitive to criticism, trying to record
everything about him with a youth’s
desperate conviction that it will soon be
too late, coloring everything with his own
desires and frustrations.
Even before he left his home town of
Asheville, North Carolina, a simian
college boy with a brilliant mind and a
spitting stutter, he had long been deprived
of normal family life: his vital,
Shakespeare - quoting father was under
treatment for cancer ; his dour mother,
who kept him at the breast until he was
three, was busy running a boarding-
house. For the rest of his life, then, he
sought parent substitutes.
There was the head of the Harvard
drama school, where he tried abortively
to become a playwright; there was Mrs
Aline Bernstein, the Jewess who became
his mistress while he was lecturing at
New York University and his patron
while he wrote “Look Homeward,
Angel”; there was Maxwell Perkins, the
Scribners editor who looked after him
like a father and cut his crates of untidy
manuscript into books. He quarrelled
terribly with them all, ascribing impos-
sible qualities to them at first, then
accusing them of impossible duplicity
and weakness when they failed to supply
his own deficiencies. A child in the
world of business and the law, he got
into endless difficulties with agents, pub-
lishers, critics, dentists. He began to see
plots against himself everywhere, and his
accounts of these in his letters and note-
books have about them, as one writer
has noted, more than a tinge of paranoia.
Elizabeth Nowell, who was Wolfe’s
literary agent for some years before his
death at 38, clearly finds him a sympa-
thetic, even a tragic, figure. But she
does not impart much of this sympathy
to the reader. In the interpretative sense,
her book is hardly a biography at all;
she seems to have calculated that a
patiently ordered mass of facts and
from Wolfe and others would
interpret themselves. She gives little
indication why Wolfe was the sort of
writer he was: why, like certain jazz
musicians, he could be both a splendidly
shaggy poet, putting America on paper
as no one else has done, and an empty
rhetorician, stringing overblown abstrac-
tions and invocations together, and often
doing both on the same page.
Evidently, Wolfe’s tragedy was that he
had tremendous interconnected gifts and
shortcomings which burnt him out be-
cause he lacked the strength of character
to control them. Ironically, Miss Nowell
suggests that he was achieving control
of them when he was destroyed by the
disease (T. 8.) which with typical childish-
ness he would not face. It is difficult,
however, to reject Malcolm Cowley’s
opinion that Wolfe did not want control;
that to maintain an unchecked flow of
words was his only way of writing, and
that a continuous cycle of illusion and
disillusion was essential to his work and
gave it its only semblance of a pattern.
JOHN ABERNETHY
The Tape Recorder
Felix Frankfurter Reminisces. Re-
corded in talks with Dr Harlan B.
Phillips. Seeker and Warburg. 31s.
■COR some years now I have waited
rather apprehensively, rather expect-
antly, for an opportunity to evaluate the
impact of the tape-recorder upon the
business, the profession and the art of
writing ; and it is unlikely that any better
opportunity will present itself than the
appearance of “Felix Frankfurter
Reminisces.” The book consists of noth-
ing whatever but transcriptions of the
answers Felix Frankfurter has made
orally to a series of questions connected
with his career, and the questions which
evoked these replies. It is subtitled : “An
intimate portrait as recorded in talk with
Dr Harlan B. Phillips.”
An intimate portrait, however, it is
not. It is only that part of a self-
portrait which may be produced by an
amateur sitting in the comfort of his
study, justifying actions he has committed
over a period of many years, talking with
the avowed intention of making material
available to future students of his period
in American history. He is frequently
on the defensive, and always conscious
of the effect of his words. The book
gives only a small clue to the excitable,
volatile, effervescent and temperamental
character with which Frankfurter has
been credited by close observers.
Dr Phillips, however, could hardly have
chosen a better subject for this publica-
tion. Felix Frankfurter is a lawyer who
chose Government service rather than
private practice ; at an early stage he was
junior to Harold Stimson as United
States Attorney, and then as Secretary
of War in Taft’s Cabinet. He intervened,
unsuccessfully, in the Sacco-Vanzetti
affair and with limited success in the
Tom Mooney case ; both murder con-
victions which were of considerable
moment to Labor and Left-wing politics
in their time. But his lack of success
did not prevent his interventions from
carrying considerable weight.
He was at the Paris Peace Conference,
backing the minor actor Morgenthau;
and consequently in on the Balfour
Declaration and the subsequent move
towards the establishment of a Jewish
National Home in Palestine. Indeed he
was closely related to the movement
throughout. Finally he was made a
Judge of the Supreme Court of the
United States.
The main objection, however, must
remain: that the book lacks elements
essential to a balanced work. It is un-
questionable that Dr Phillips has been
at pains to preserve the veracity of the
interviews. One, for example, closes:
“My God! Is this six o’clock? Heavens!
You get out of here!” The sentences,
sometimes distorted in form, are those
of a man speaking ; they have not been
edited. But this integrity is loaded upon
a form of reportage which in itself has
little integrity; the tape recorder has
been discredited in the courts ; and I
feel it inevitable that it will come to the
same fate in the libraries of learning.
OLAF RUHEN


Shows
What the Critics Said
FROM RAY MATHEW IN LONDON
There have been dozens of reviews of
the current exhibition of “Recent
Australian Painting” at the Whitechapel
Gallery: “We have had a good press,”
the manager of the gallery told me.
If I hadn’t been asked just to do a
round-up of English opinions on it I
ART
would have liked to describe
the gallery which I love (you
can smoke there, and there's
light from heaven —rare in
London), reviewed the show and raved
over the catalogue which is a model and
really worth 12s. 6d.
The show is—really—stunning ; one—
l, that is—hardly saw these pictures at
home. Two of the Pughs are master-
pieces, I’m sure. The general level of
competence is very high though 1 thought
some of the total abstracts —Olsen and
Whitely—pretty pointless (pretty is the
wrong word).
The reviews are often very funny. I
got quite homesick on my day in the
gallery and would have pinched anything
small enough to hang over my bed, but
there’s this passion for space and this
insistence (in Dickerson for instance) that
you look from a distance.
And so to the critics. “So closely inter-
bred is modern art and so intense, if
limited, its historical awareness that we
find it difficult to imagine a large English-
speaking society in which post-impres-
sionist art was first seen in 1939 and
European art from a.d. 1200 to 1800
can be seen insignificantly or not at all.
But Australia is that society,” writes
John Russell in the “Sunday Times,”
“and the strength of modern Australian
painting comes in part from that very
situation.”
The exhibition demonstrates (accord-
ing to Eric Newton in “Time and Tide”)
that "it is possible to exhibit today’s
Australian painting in London in such
a way that it makes the same kind of
sense as Dutch art of the 17th century.
Goodness knows why, but the 111 pic-
tures ... all bear roughly the same
stamp . . . even those painters who seem
to have European prototypes paint with
a different accent.”
The “Daily Mail,” with its habitual
honesty, heads Pierre Jeannerat’s review
“Aussie Art Makes the Grade.” He
describes the show as “a national school
and not a rehash of European and
American pictorial achievements ... a
vivid expression of a whole country’s
individual character, exciting to know.”
David Carritt in the “Evening Stan-
dard” (“Watch out for the Australians.
Yes it’s ART I’m talking about” —there
are Test teams loose in England) sees
these painters as “deeply rooted in their
native landscapes and legends, but . . .
seeking a way of expressing them which
is not purely insular.” He points out
that some of them “interpret their con-
tinent . . . romantically . . . Others work
in a more cosmopolitan style, ranging
from semi to total abstraction. Never-
theless they retain the toughness, the
spaciousness and, I imagine, the sun-
baked textures and colors of their native
land.” They have “two tremendous
advantages: the energy of pioneers, and
the fascination of an unfamiliar back-
S 'Terence Mullaly in the “Daily Tele-
graph” talks of their “directness of
approach, complete with a degree of
integrity, that makes most of the paint-
ing we see in London look wearily
academic, or, even worse, like facile pur-
suit of the latest craze.” He mentions
their “compulsive strangeness . . . color
harmonies that suggest how deeply the
open spaces of Australia have burnt into
the minds of her artists . . . the strong
element of sweetness” in the coloring
favored that comes “dangerously close
to sentimentality ... as though this were
a necessary reaction to their environ-
ment. Australia’s younger artists may
be drawing away from the obvious
references to the Australian scene, but
the fusion of awareness of a compelling
landscape, and those people in it, and a
remarkable feeling for the qualities of
oil paint has enabled Australia to make
a contribution to 20th-century painting
that is as yet hardly recognized.”
Eric Newton, in “The Guardian” this
time, broods over the whole show:
“Dobell, Drysdale and Nolan ... we
know that their achievements are con-
siderable emphatic, sometimes monu-
mental, often a little frightening because
they pay no lip service to the grace and
refinement that we, in Europe, have
inherited from the Renaissance and
beyond that from Greece —and we know
that in order to feel at home with them
we must shed our Renaissance prejudices
and attempt to identify ourselves with a
continent we vaguely connect with desert
and drought and decay and human
pioneers.”
Tgnoring the fact that if there is any
identifying to be done it is the artist’s
job to force it on us, accepting the
assumption that one ought “to feel at
home” with a work of art (the mere
size of the pictures suggests that painters
don’t accept it in any literal sense), Mr
Newton is still wrong. Mr Mullaly saw
that “unlike so many European and
American painters, however far they
move away from the everyday world
they forget neither man nor his setting.”
It is possible that the humanism of
Australian painting is a return to Renais-
sance tradition, and thus a shock to
London.
“The Times” says: “The folklore


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKSON &
-o'sucltvan
• >TY . I - TD .A,
MARK
TRADE
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS •; PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS is OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
‘JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises tha:
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney
73 YEARS OF SERVICE
•r> THE AUSTRALIAN "/ to ,-
If any “Bulletin” illustration
takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you
a price for the original.
element is still strong ... it seems
an element that few of these artists can
escape at present without some loss of
national identity. It seems necessary and
desirable that the outback should con-
tinue to haunt them.” The anonymous
writer remarks, in this most reasoned
review, “What, then, do these paintings
reveal of a specifically ‘Australian 5
character? In general, they are very rich
and strong in color, with a richness that
tends to be dark rather than brilliant,
and, with one or two marked exceptions
. . . they give an impression of tough-
ness and boldness combined with a
lyrical response to the beauty of paint
itself . . . The character of the exhibition
does seem to lie between two contrasted
types of feeling which could be exempli-
fied by the landscapesof Mr John Perceval
on the one hand, with a sort of exuberant
sweetness in their lush handling and
color, and on the other, by the harsh
forms and solid black shadows of Mr
Charles Blackman’s ‘Dreaming in the
Street.’ There is a strange, continual
interplay between lyrical feeling and
dramatic incident . ... . the exhibition j§
notable for the wide variety of approach
to the artists' central problem of defining
their Australian vision . . . the European
eye picks out the haunting, regional
imagery of artists like Clifton Pugh and
Mr Arthur Boyd as memorably new and
fresh . . . many Australian painters are
deeply suspicious of something so near
an Australian 'brand-image' . . .”
The painters most praised (none have
been not praised) have been Dobell, the
Boyds, Blackman, Pugh (Magdalene
College has bought his self-portrait),
Dickerson, Coburn, Nolan, Perceval,
Whitely, Tucker, Passmore. Not all the
pictures have yet been hung ; the White-
chapel is the most civilised gallery in
London probably, and it will not crowd
its walls. For me, the revelation of the
show was how Australian most of the
total abstracts are —as though the
painters had fragmented Australian light
and color—and how innocent in Europe
seems the figure-painters’ assumption
that isolated, personal, momentary vision
can be an image of the-world.
Diarising to Womanising
“And So To Bed.” Independent,
Sydney.
T betook myself to this musical anecdote
-* about the elderly philandering of one
Samuel Pepys Esq., and perish me if it
were not a most stylish piece of jolly
THEATRE
scurrility. Indeed it ran
along in right friendly
temper as Mr John
O’Flanlon, plump and
comfortable in the person of Master
Pepys, besought himself the favors of
a neglected light-o’-love of Old Rowley,
got himself hid in a chest (like old Fal-
staff in the basket of dirty linen) when
the king came by on a like errand, and
then had to overhear first the royal way
of strumpeting and then the arrival of his
own anxious and jealous helpmeet,
Mistress Pepys, herself soon chin-chucked
by royalty and liking same.
Master Fagan’s story is an amiable
piece of slight naughtiness, for beseems
there be more merit in womanising than
in diarising, and Master Vivian Ellis
makes musick of catchy beat and hearty
Englishry save when he is of a will to be
tender, whereupon his muse turns watery
sweet, as if it were lavender sprinkled on
sheets of exceeding shame. Master Sum-
merton, who produces all this, employs
his players adroitly in a spirit of carica-
ture of the manners of the time, and he
does it with smart pace and pretty cos-
tumed composition withal.
As the dubious lady, lately neglected by
King Charles and not unimpressed by the
late-life ambitions of Master Pepys, the
entertainment is marvellously advantaged
by Mistress Sheila Bradley. And as the
anxious wife, who wepys when Samuel
kepys no diary and kepys ill company
instead. Mistress Gaynor Mitchell is un-
common comely, ja comforting presence
i’ faith, though not always so when songs
are sought of her. Master Jenkins in
scarlet coat cuts a dash as the king, bat
is a little cold and haughty withal and in
need of borrowing from Master Rabelais's
ribaldry. French ways are uproariously
guyed by Master Livermore as a fop
mightily entertaining to ladies in the
parlor . . . but in the bedchamber? That
were another tale.
LINDSEY BROWNE
Misjudged Shostakovitch
npHEY used to say in early Victorian
A England that music was all adjectives
and no nouns. It was, if nothing more,
as neat as many another way of pin-
MUSIC
pointing the difficulty of
deciding whether the values
of music carried over into
real life, or whether they
depended on a system of private and
hermetic symbols.
Different generations have given dif-
ferent verdicts about this question of
the objective meaning of music, and in
history we can see music treated
variously as a craft, a religion, and a
language whose very vagueness of
reference somehow enhanced its linguis-
tic value In our own time, the creative
and critical tensions between Eastern and
Western Europe stand as a small but
highly interesting phase in this recurring
dispute. And it seems that, to the detri-
ment of his reputation, Shostakovich


a
mm i
ii
CHECK
YOUR
TYRES.
CHECK FOR
Olympic
THE ALL-AUSTRALIAN NAME YOU CAN TRUST
j, aSi in the West, been more often re-
garded as a piece of evidence than as
a composer in his own right.
With a firm belief that music releases
strong moral and social forces, and that
all moral and social forces must be
disciplined, the Communists have always
undertaken to censor the work of their
creative musicians. To most of us in
the West, this seems pernicious: and,
in fact, any practice of this kind will
almost certainly prove injurious to art
as we know it.
But, even though there is no dogma
at the root of Western criticism, it seems
to me that we have not always avoided
the trap of assuming that what Shosta-
kovich writes is conditioned by what
the commissars want. In effect, we are
sometimes in the position of saying that
the Russians cannot censor music be-
cause music cannot be censored, and that
Shostakovitch writes inferior music be-
cause he knuckles under to the censors.
Which is absurd.
It was interesting to find, when Karel
Ancerl played Shostakovitch's fifth
symphony in Melbourne, that the music’s
patina has not tarnished much in almost
25 years. This is one work which was
pretty well received outside Russia.
The slow movement remains a moving
record of a keenly-felt experience ; candid
and almost mid-romantic in the emotional
directness of its string melodies, it is
redeemed from anachronism even more
by the wandering counterpoint of its
bass than by the highly individual instru-
mentation. Elsewhere, and especially in
the second and fourth movements, both
the naivete and the exuberance still strike
us as valid and genuine metal.
Setting aside some momentary flaws in
the horn playing, the symphony had a
vigorous and attractive performance.
Though Mr Ancerl’s competence was in
no doubt, his judgment was less fine
than Georges Tzipine showed in his per-
formance of the same composer’s tenth
symphony several weeks ago, for there
was at least one passage of major
importance in which even the trumpets
could not impose the melody across Mr
Ancerl’s battery of heavy percussion.
Mr Ancerl’s second Melbourne concert
was disappointing. Though his perform-
ance of the G minor symphony of
Mozart was chiselled with exceptional
delicacy, the insistence on a lyrical touch
(and the excessive speed of the first and
last movements) quite glossed over the
passionate and nervous intensity of this
incomparable music. Mr Ancerl used,
too, the revised score, in which the suave
and oleaginous clarinets bring in a note
of complacency which doubly underlines
the loss of the keen oboe tone of the
original scoring.
To his long-standing credit, it must be
said that Mr Ancerl did not affect the
silly miniature orchestra which is so much
in fashion for Mozart playing; but he
did, on the other hand, severely limit the
range of orchestral dynamic, so that we
had nothing much more than a mezzo-
forte over the whole symphony.
KENNETH HINCE
Sartre’s Witch Hunt
The Crucible. Sydney Savoy.
Superb acting by Simone Signoret,
Yves Montand and Mylene Dernon-
geot, who are aided by an able support-
ing cast, and clever direction by Ray-
FILMS
mond Rouleau add up to a
gripping, mature if biased
film.
Called “Les Sorcieres de
Salem” in the original version, this fast-
moving French film is a powerful and
convincing version of Arthur Miller’s
play, “The Crucible.” The plot, skilfully
adapted by Jean-Paul Sartre, is based on
the notorious Salem witchhunts in Salem,
Massachusetts, in 1692. Religious in-
tolerance, ignorance and superstition rife
in a small community of Puritan zealots
are exploited by unscrupulous, selfseek-
ing individuals and lead to deliberately
fomented outbursts of mass hysteria, the
settling of personal scores and judicial
murder.
Simone Signoret plays a zealous
Puritan wife who feels sex is sinful and
mortifies her flesh. This drives her
virile husband, portrayed by Yves Mon-
tand, to adultery with a willing and
crafty servant girl (Mylene Demongeot).
Having tested the thrilling embraces of
illicit love, the scheming teenager tries
to prevent her lover from returning to
his wife and hatches a plot to get rid
of her by spreading rumors that she is
a witch.
To make doubly sure, she herself
takes part in a bit of magic, in
the company of several other teenage
girls. The midnight pranks and moon-
light dancing are seen and reported.
Denunciations pile up. Expert Satan-
fighters arrive.
Trials by inquisition begin. Several
villagers are sentenced to hang.
The last minutes of the film are par-
ticularly well done. Claude Renoir’s
expert black and white photography pro-
vides an excellent medium for dramatic
expression.
E. BAJKOWSKI


DOCTOR DEJU
Translator and adviser to European migrants, Dr Deju encounters in a carrot farmer a difficult
problem, intensified by as evil a billygoat as ever walked the Manly beachfront.
By DESMOND O'G RADY
Doctor Eugene Deju was fastidious about everything
but the way he earned his money, so each morning
he put his room in pernickety order, dressed neatly,
then waited for the other boarders to depart for work
and for the landlady, Mrs Oglivie, to settle in front of her
television set before descending the stairs.
Collecting his mail from the green baize board criss-
crossed with tape in the hallway, he crossed the Ocean road
to his seat on the esplanade, where he read his letters with
the sunslicked sea as a backdrop. Appeals to intercede with
the Immigration department, queries about buying a house,
whether written in Ukrainian, Russian, Polish, German, Greek,
Italian, Maltese or Serbo-Croat, requests for a dependable
lawyer, presented no problem, but he pondered over a letter
scrawled on sheets of brown wrapping paper:
“I been here 12 year and liking it very much yes thank
you. She is the butiful country. Here I have the big problem.
I am thinking to make the health food to make Australia
healthy and strong. Where I am I am keeping goatz in the
bagyard. Behind the goatz I am keeping the carrutz and
behind the carrutz perhaps I am keeping the beat.
“From the carrutz I am making the health food for the
ize and the sauer milk makes the yoghurt! ! 1 am having
terrific will to work but not Australian. 1 speak but you
speak better with the counzil. If you are liking to help me
ring to XU 3959. I am not telling house no noing it I trust
you with the goat.
Seiko.”
Deju liked nothing better than to walk around the cliffs
to North Head or to lounge in a deck chair on the Manly
surf club terrace, his eye distracted by the scene and his
mind idly going over someone’s difficulties. But those sheets
of brown paper drove him back into his room. Although
preoccupied, he had a slight but pleasurable shock on re-entry
for, as he never returned of a morning, he saw his room
afresh: it was as if nobody lived there.
He closed the window which gave onto the third floor
verandah, pulled down the blind, spread his handkerchief
where his feet would rest and lay on the bed without even
turning back the cover. Although the lowered blind darkened
the room he shielded his eyes as if klieg lights were set in
the ceiling. Goats! As a boy, on one of his family’s infrequent
trips into the country from Bucharest, he had come across
a black goat in a deserted farmhouse. He could still see the
animal's sneer, feel his own distaste and fear: he had thought
it was the devil!
Deju lay rigid as if at the crisis of a long illness: the
letter had affected him like a toxin. It read like a hoax and
he could not afford another mistake such as that which had
made the immigration authorities so unsympathetic that he
had had to leave Melbourne. But although he cautioned him-
self he had no choice: in addition to his fee there was a
promise of continuing returns if the health food scheme,
improbable but not impossible, had any success. He could
not resist that promise ; he told himself he would ring just
to satisfy his curiosity about Sejko.
TTe rang at intervals for the following three days. Before
five each afternoon there was no response ; after five
the phone was removed from the hook and someone breathed
into it ; but although Deju said a few words of greeting in
all the languages he knew there was no reply.
On the third afternoon he found the password: goats.
As he said it there was a grunt : then a voice began to repeat
the letter: “I been here 12 years and liking it very much . . .”
At the end of it Deju asked, unnecessarily, whether it
was Mr Sejko ; and after a conversation which, as far as
he could understand it, showed Sejko to be guileless he offered
to visit him. The offer was refused. Sejko, speaking now in
Italian, agreed to meet Eugene on the following Sunday at
his pavilion on the esplanade.
Deju conducted most of his business in that pavilion,
for nobody entered his spotless room. He was a doctor with
clients instead of patients ; if he thought they would offer
him a coffee and discuss their affairs discreetly he would
meet them in a restaurant ; otherwise his office was the
shelter on the promenade. Because he dealt mainly with people
who were hard at work the rest of the week Sunday was his
busiest day ; usually a line of clients sat in the pavilion all
day and waited their turn to talk with him.
He did not hurry his cases, and his interest in the details
of their misfortune was valued by his clients, who took his
curiosity for concern. You could see their gratitude when
they finally shook hands with unfailingly attentive, understand-
ing, reassuring, soberly optimistic Deju.
Dr Deju was able to help migrants because he was an
intellectual. He could write a letter in English, he could
talk with the authorities in their own language. Migrant
counsellor and legal adviser —his clients’ misfortunes were
his good fortune. He could charge whatever he liked for his
services and he had a nice cut from the solicitors to whom
he directed the most difficult cases. He had sheaves of pound
notes stacked with his more important documents on top
of his wardrobe but money was not more important to Deju
than the status his work gave him.
In Rumania he had been an impoverished clerk but here
he was almost a professional man ; he worked when he liked,
he had an adequate income, people were dependent on him.
In such circumstances even Melbourne was pleasant, but he
hoped now that he would never have to shift from Manly.
In winter he delighted in solitary walks along the seabinding
path to Shelly beach and the Fairy Bower where he spent
hours on the jutting ledges watching the waves cream and
crash on the rocks below. In summer his pleasure was to
observe the bikini-clad girls and watch for hours the couples
embraced on Manly beach. In all seasons he held court in
the pavilion on the promenade.
He expected most of his clients to find him, but kept an


eye out for Sejko on the appointed afternoon, for he had
listened to directions on the phone as if they were reports
about another country. But Deju need not have worried:
long before Sejko found him, everybody, but everybody,
found Sejko.
It was an April day when the sun fostered such a golden
fuzz on the skin that the beach was populous with bathers
and the promenade packed with strollers. All of them gathered
to watch Sejko, who marched on Deju with a directness which
made flight impossible. Straight-backed, his grey hair standing
on his head like iron filings drawn to a magnet, he wore a
long belted tunic and smoky-blue trousers which puffed over
his knee-length boots. At his side walked a black billygoat.
The crowd asked whether he was advertising a film or a circus.
Deju abruptly told his clients to return next Sunday and
descended, like Pope Leo the Great fronting Attila, to meet
Sejko. As he took the goatkeeper’s arm to propel him towards
the boarding house he explained that crowds upset him, but
when they were on the stairs his panic subsided. He could
not have Sejko in his room or see it defiled by a goat so, as
if their ascent had been designed merely to throw off pursuers,
they descended the stairs and, although fearful that Mrs
Ogilvie might stir from her TV long enough to see he was not in
respectable company, Deju led them through the passageway
and out by the back exit. Passers-by who gawked at Sejko
and his goat made Deju want to be rid of them, but an even
stronger motive was his awareness, now that his first terror
of crowd interest had passed, that the goat stank.
Deju waged relentless war against offensive odors: he
would track them to their source and eliminate them with zeal.
He could not smell anything objectionable without analysing
its distastefulness ; his mind was a catalogue of weird scents
which, in idle moments, he vainly tried to recall. At times
he exposed himself to noisome odors, as when he passed
before women’s hairdressing salons to submit himself briefly
to the bad-egg smell of permanent-wave solution. As he
questioned Sejko on his plans he tried to analyse the goat
smell: it was as if Sejko had with him a breathing, four-legged
slab of rancid meat.
Deju agreed to write to the council on Sejko’s behalf —at
which the goatkeeper nodded his head, saying he had satisfied
himself he could trust Deju.
As Deju smiled wanly at this insolence the goat wheeled,
rose on its hind legs and clattered down against him.
“Enver,” explained Sejko, who gripped the animal by the
throat, “is angry because you haven’t paid him any attention.
Make friends, everything depends on him.”
Later Deju realised that he should have stopped there
and then, at 4.20 p.m. in the back street behind the boarding
house, to tell Sejko he would never pretend to be friends with
a goat and that he dealt only with peasants who had been
separated from their animals. Instead, under the threat of
butting and the spur of profit, he bent to stroke lightly, once,
Enver’s wiry hair. To avoid such degrading scenes in future
he told Sejko that as soon as he had the council’s reply he
would visit him.
Although he had taken only a few minutes to rid himself
of Sejko, Deju did not return to see if some of his clients
had not yet dispersed but made his way swiftly towards the
cliffs of North Head. He was disturbed, but told himself
he was always worrying needlessly. Enver’s smell accompanied
him; his hand was putrid. Cautiously he scaled the rocks
to bathe it in a pool, and as he ascended the cliffs he rubbed
it in clumps of grass, but the odor persisted: eventually it
drove him to his room, where he soaked his hand in hot,
soapy water mixed with lemon juice and listened to the hourly
news bulletins to hear if world tension was any worse.
/An a Saturday afternoon a few weeks later Deju, with the
council’s reply in hand, arrived at Sejko’s paint-starved
weatherboard house which stood at the end of an unmade
street on the incline towards North Head. Sejko was in old
slacks and a black and white check shirt instead of his
Sunday-best, walking-out costume. Deju read the letter to
Sejko to prevent him asking why it was addressed to Dr
Wolfgang Achlieb, D.Sc. (Berlin).
Sejko had the space the council specified as necessary
for the running goats but, with the bureaucratic arrogance
which would allow him to request a ten guinea fee, Deju insisted
on measuring the distance between the house and the tethering
post of Enver, who lay uphill, to ensure that it was the required
50ft. As he paced it out Enver began an encircling movement
which wound his chain ever tighter about Deju’s legs until
he tripped over it.
“He’s a cunning brute.”
Deju picked himself up, shaky and dust-covered.
“Just a trick. Ele’s not used to you here.”
Deju, sullen, dusted his trousers with blows which should
have fallen on Enver, who sniffed the grass as if nothing had
disturbed the afternoon’s peace. To save Deju’s face Sejko
showed him the carrots which flourished in a small enclosure,
then took him to the kitchen, paid him, and offered a glass
of carrot juice. At the first taste of it Deju told himself to
put his resentment of Enver aside: the syrup would sell.
There was just one thing he had to settle: he drew a
map of the Adriatic coast and asked Sejko to indicate his
village, for he distrusted all Greeks and wanted to be sure
he made no mistakes in this venture. Although Sejko claimed
to be an Albanian he pointed to a spot in Macedonia near
the Greek border. Probably he did not understand the map ;
at any rate he did not react to the Greek Deju knew, so finally
he accepted Sejko as an Albanian, or perhaps Macedonian,
and promised to return when he had looked into the possi-
bilities of marketing that golden juice.
Instead of homing from Sejko’s to cook dinner on
the gas stove in the corridor he went from shop to
shop along the Corso in search of carrot juice. Finally,
when he had missed the news commentary, the 7 o'clock
news and the news review, he found a shop facing Manly
wharf which had it in stock. He carried the tin home with
a coursing excitement he had not felt since he was a boy ;
then, in his room, poured a glassful and let the juice rest on
his tongue—woody, harsh, inferior in all respects to Sejko’s!
No wonder nobody stocked such a drink! But “Sejko’s Sweet
Syrup”—or, better, “Dejuice”!—would sell everywhere.
Deju, after long study of the lives of the rich, had con-
cluded that their fortunes were based on the fullest exploitation
of one simple, sound idea. He knew it was all a matter of
picking the right occasion for the maximum effort, and he
at last had found it. He recalled the savor of Sejko’s ruddy
juice. He was close to drunk on the memory of it and a
calculation of its future uses.
Deju was so buoyant when he returned to Sejko’s a few
weeks later that he ignored the whipping wintry wind.
He had decided they should firstly make a trial sale of carrot
juice ; he had interested several Manly shops in the scheme,
and had spent some time designing an attractive container.
The Albanian was unshaven, casual, and obviously sur-
prised that Deju had returned, but he invited him into a
room which looked onto the street through a curtainless
window. Sejko had packed as much furniture as possible,
including his divan-bed, into this room leaving the others
resoundingly bare. The smell was so unmistakable that Deju,
with loathing, inquired about Enver, and Sejko replied with
a mass of fond detail.
Deju’s warm enthusiasm was chilled by Sejko’s welcome:
he kept on so persistently about Enver’s quick intelligence,
using his choice of the wardrobe opposite the divan for his
winter shelter as an example, that Deju wondered whether
he was purposely sidetracking him. When Sejko offered him
a glass of dark wine he asked for carrot juice, but Sejko
merely raised a forefinger, shook his head and continued with
his disconnected anecdotes.
Deju forced down the resinous wine as if it could drown
the stench, until Sejko’s stories petered out and he invited
Deju outside to see Enver. The brute was not in sight, but
even as Deju thanked heaven for that he saw that the carrot
enclosure had been broken. He ran, dreading what he knew
he would see: a churned plot without a succulent, crisp
celled carrot left. He turned to Sejko with his wordless


question but Sejko was so unconcerned that Deju concluded
he was stupid.
“That’s his work,” Sejka said, nodding at the enclosure,
and explained that more than a week ago, after he had ignored
the goat in order to tend the carrots, Enver had broken into
the enclosure.
“Why didn’t you shoot the brute?”
“No, it’s only that he’s irritable. This is his season.”
“He’s stupid every season.”
“Not the goat —he is more rational than man.”
Deju thought that only a person as stupid as Sejko could
say that. “But the carrot juice!” The confidential tone he
cultivated for counselling his clients was gone: Eugene shouted
as he confessed his passion for the health food scheme, as
he described his thorough investigation of carrot-juice possi-
bilities. He reined his rage only when Sejko took him by the
arm to lead him back into the house, just as Deju did to
calm distraught clients.
Sejko offered him a glass of carrot juice and asked him
to look at it (cloudy), smell it (strong) and taste it (sour).
Deju grimaced at the liquid and at himself for basing his
hopes on this Albanian, this Macedonian, this Greek who
was no more intelligent than his wretched goat.
There was nothing further to say, and Sejko was likely
to offer more of his resinous wine, so Deju edged back to
the front room to collect his overcoat. Enver stood over it
as it hung from the arm of the easy chair, but his head was
turned away with his upper lip curled in trembling distaste.
He swivelled to sneer at Deju, then leapt onto the divan,
squeezed through the narrow, half-closed window like a cat,
and was gone.
“Anyone would think you had a dead body here for
six months.”
“Enver is lonely,” said Sejko. “I get him some women
this week. We will have yoghurt from the milk.”
The fetid smell thickened the air, and Deju coupled it
with Enver's lust. He left, running into the clear evening air
as if from a fire.
Immediately after the final conversation with Sejko his
room became unbearable because his overcoat carried the
stench of Enver’s urine: the goat had relieved himself on
it before leaping through the window. After losing his chance
to become a tycoon, to be backed by massive holdings instead
of the thin carpet of notes on top of his wardrobe, Deju did
not want to buy a new coat, so by constant soaking and
washing he got rid of the worst of the smell. However, at
times in his walks to North Head he caught a whiff of what
seemed musk, rancid meat and urine, as penetrating as the
smell of a crushed ant, which made him jerk around, sure
to find Enver's eye on him.
Qni evening was particularly trying, for the odor of Enver
V revived strongly : as dusk gathered Deju followed his
usual path along the ocean front, but every few minutes he
switched about as if a dog had snapped at his heels. As he
dreaded the stares of other promenaders he disciplined himself
to ignore the threat, but when it was dark he turned to search
suspiciously for minutes on end.
Finally, before reaching the jutting rock, he conquered
his fear, arguing that it was due to that excess of imagination
which had made him cut a ridiculous figure before Sejko.
He was able to watch the spectacle of cloud lightning in
the distance with as much satisfaction as if he had stage-
managed it.
Horizon-high on his summit of rock, with the Pacific
breaking and draining below, Deju experienced a delicious
fear, but again, in spite of himself, he was bothered by a
breeze which seemed to blow from a Bedouin village. Cursing
his imagination, he turned. At first he thought it was a spirit,
for he could not make out more than the wicked amber eye
of Enver ; but then he descried the whole, malevolent beast.
At least he was alone with it.
For a second he wondered whether he could finish with
the animal there and then, in the dark, and regretted that
his old Mauser lay, loaded, in the drawer of his desk.
But when Enver began to paw the ground he realised frk
danger: from his ledge there was a drop of perhaps 100 feet
to the sea-washed rocks below. Enver looked heavier tha®
before.
Deju had a second in which to hope that a car would
appear on the nearby road. He took two steps backwards,
which was all the room he could allow himself. Sweat sprang
from his body like freshets of icy blood. As Enver advanced
Deju dropped to his knees bringing his head level with the
beast’s. He held its hostile eyes while his hands blindly felt
for outcrops on the smooth rock.
As there was nothing he could grasp to anchor him
against a charge he talked to the brute and edged sideways,
He used the confidential tone his clients found so soothing:
“Hasn’t Sejko found you some women goats yet, Enver?
You enjoy walking on these rocks, eh? Wouldn't it be better
at home, in the wardrobe?”
Enver listened and turned to remain the centre of
Deju’s crablike movement, carried out against a background
of depthless black and noiseless lighting. Suddenly Enver
reared and stamped with his horns pointed like bayonets at
Deju's temples. A sports car had swept up the hill and swung
its lights on the combatants.
“You need a horn for that game.”
A coatless lout was slouching towards Deju before the
car had fully stopped.
“How’d you get yourself into that position?”
The woolly-haired fellow acted the humorist for the girls
in slacks and loose jumpers who followed him from the "car.
Enver had backed away as the car braked, so that Deju
rose now to his feet with his abraded, dusty, sweat-streaked
hands limp at his sides as if he were under judgment by
the curious trio. The leader asked Deju the score, and when
he had heard the story hurled a few stones to drive away
Enver, who stood by, listening.
Deju refused their offer of a lift back to Manly ; his
greatest fear was that his humiliation might become public.
The driver, who had remained at the wheel, bawled to the
others to return and the sports car sped away leaving Deju,
with a sizeable rock in his hand, to make his way back to
Manly where he would abandon his overcoat on the beach.
A lthough in the following days he expected crowds to
gather about him as they had around Sejko nobody paid
Deju any particular attention. All that remained of the cliff-top
encounter was his constant memory of himself on that ledge,
not horizon-high but on his knees at Enver's level, scrabbling
for a handhold.
He mounted a campaign of letters, signed with any name
but his own, which complained to various authorities about
the squalor in which the Greek and his goats lived, and it
was suggested, loved. He did not hurry matters, as he derived
satisfaction from variations on this theme, but after he had
injected enough poison he went to see the District Health
Inspector, Dr Clack, not as Achlieb but as Deju.
Dr Clack, parrot-faced and white-haired, was hard of
hearing, so he tilted his head sideways with his nose on high
as if inviting Dr Deju to pour his impressive words into his
one reasonably good ear.
As a preface to his remarks Dr Deju pointed out that
migration was always a sad affair but particularly when the
migrant did not know the language of his adoptive country.
He explained that he had the good of all migrants at heart
but at the same time he insisted they had a duty to Australia.
That duty, he continued logically, could best be fulfilled by
controlling any migrant behavior which was offensive to their
own good name, to other migrants, to Australians, to human
dignity. Few migrants had the fortune to come from a
wealthy family as he had: most were peasants, good people
not to be blamed for their abysmal ignorance and only too
glad of the chance to live in a modern and truly democratic
community.
Dr Clack took off his horn-rimmed spectacles to hear more
clearly. Dr Deju made a qualification : on rare occasions one
came across a pig-headed fellow who was not prepared to adapt,
who wanted to turn his back on the new life offered him


an d live as if he were still in his miserable village. Such a
type would conform only to the extent necessary to serve
his own ends. We are all odd, of course, in our own way,
added Dr Deju, smiling as he slipped these words into Clack’s
cocked ear, and he would be the last to complain about
another, but he had received so many complaints himself,
both from migrants and Australians, about a certain Greek
in Manly that he thought it his duty to inform the appropriate
authorities so they could take the necessary action.
Deju was on hand, although not in view, when the Health
Inspector’s truck arrived at Sejko’s and, shortly after, one
struggling goat after another was dragged from the house
despite Sejko’s arm-wheeling protests. Sejko looked the broken
man Deju had hoped to see when the council truck pulled
away with the mournful goats.
To allow himself repeated rehearsals of the scene Deju, for
the first time since he had been humiliated there, walked to
the cliffs. As he stood on the ledge he conceded himself title
to the black plain of sea and the colony of stars, for his
intelligence meant power.
All the way home, running on a current of the deepest
satisfaction he would know, he sang a hymn to himself
as lord of this corner of creation.
He was not even concerned to notice that he would just
miss the news broadcast, but he stopped and held his breath
when he reached the top of the stairs to his room, for the
breeze blowing there seemed to come from a Bedouin camp.
His legs jellied.
He had the key in the lock, but decided to pass along
the verandah outside the room to look through the window.
He discovered that it was the path Enver had followed ; he
was sitting on the bed. Deju slammed the window and went
for the local police and D> Clack.
His rage disrupted his polished style, but it persuaded a
Constable Turton and Dr Clack to return with him. He flung
open the door: the bed was empty. There was a movement
on top of the wardrobe, then a weighty black body thumped
against Deju’s hip, knocking him towards the desk.
Deju snatched up his Mauser, jumped past Clack, and
fired before Enver, with a moan, scurried around an angle of
the stairs.
“Hold it! You can’t dispose of animals like that,” said
Clack when the shots died.
“The wretch has been up there chewing my money and
documents,” said Deju, who was sure he had killed the brute.
“I take it you’ve got a licence for that firearm, said
Turton wisely, for Deju was in a homicidal mood and it was
better that any killing be done with a registered weapon.
“Do 1 have to have a licence to defend myself against
an animal that’s persecuted me for months?”
“That’s about the size of it, sport, and don’t tell me the
goat ate it.”
Deju stood on a chair to survey the damage Enver had
done on top of his wardrobe. Shreds of banknotes were mixed
with the tatters of his documents and files. The shock was
too great for him to react immediately: what shouted at him
was that word, “sport,” and the policeman’s tone. He would
not have spoken like that ten minutes ago.
Dr Clack, with his head inclined at an attentive angle,
asked, “You said you knew these goats only through other
people’s complaints?”
“But can’t you smell it? It makes me want to vomit.”
That’s what underlay it all, the clinging rottenness that
got right into you.
The policeman agreed that the room stank, but he won-
dered what went on in the professor’s mind. He looked
miserable, half - starved despite his new overcoat, a haunted
type with deep erosion lines on his face —a bit like Eichmann
or Arthur Miller.
And what did he stack away on top of his wardrobe?
And why would he need a radio which looked the sort of job
a bloody spy would use? There were a lot of things he
would like to find out about the fellow who, at the moment,
looked as if he had seen a ghost.
“Do you know a Dr Achlieb?” asked Clack, leaning for-
ward and removing his spectacles to see Deju more clearly.
“Achlieb? That’s German ... I don’t have much to do
with Germans. I’m Rumanian.”
Deju’s face, off-white from shock, drained even whiter.
Rumania is where the bloody gipsies come from, Turton
recalled.
“You don’t know a Dr Achlieb then?”
“No . . . not that I remember.”
ryD they want to cross-examine him in his own room?
Deju was hurtling from the cliff-top to the rocks below
and his happiness was as distant as Bucharest.
“We’ve forgotten the body,” said Turton with the bright-
ness of a music-hall star launching a sure laugh line. His
buck-toothed grin made him look youthful.
Deju felt old: he could not cope with both animal cunning
and human stupidity.
“There’s blood on the stairs!”
At the sound of that voice Deju felt bitter waters run
in his mouth: his shame would be public. Mrs Oglivie had
at last realised that the shots had nothing to do with the tele-
vision programme she had surely been watching, so, dragging
on her husband’s maroon, tobacco-musty dressing-gown, she
had ventured out, and now, her bird’s-nest hair awry, would
be bent incredulously over the fresh blood which had never
before run in her establishment.
“Rube! Rube!”
Her husband would miss the rest of the TV.
Irresponsible as a schoolboy, the policeman called from
the top of the stairs, “Is there a body down there?”
Turton, Deju noted, was as sharp-faced as a goat.
“What sort of a body?” Mrs Oglivie's voice was that of a
little girl trapped at the bottom of a well.
“Just a silly old goat .”
Turton grinned around at Clack and Deju for their
laughter, but Deju hated this low comedy. Mrs Oglivie had
always treated him as a gentleman. The policeman's unfeeling
humor was as protective as armor. Deju knew there was no
way he could touch him, but it would only require the right
phrase, he believed, for him to regain Turton’s respect.
“Let me explain.” Deju stepped confidently to the
banister beside the policeman.
“It’s all right, Prof.,” said Turton to pacify the excitable
old bird. “It’s in my line of business —you can explain to me
later.” His arm, for some reason or other, lay like a bar
across Deju’s chest.
“I’m not ‘sport.’ To you I’m Doctor Deju.”
The policeman gave him a comprehensive look. “The
last con. we had here told us he was Krupp.”
Deju told himself that such a barbarian would never
understand his craving for a better life.
Turton had not finished: “When I need a doctor I’ll call
one —judging from the pain in the neck I’ve got, it shouldn t
be long now . . .”
There was blood, but no body. Perhaps Enver limped into
the North Head bush to die —the stench of him dead
would be no worse than when living, so his body may have
gone unnoticed. Or, being such a hardy old item, he may have
found his way to Sejko, who disappeared from the district,
perhaps returning to Albania, Macedonia —or was it, as Dr
Deju believed, Greece? —where he would be free from persecu-
tion by Australians, and where people really appreciated goats.
Maybe Deju slew Enver, maybe not. some have seen the
black brute carrying out most unlikely feats on the rocks of
North Head on dark nights ... he is said to charge along
jutting rocks and pull up sharp at the very edge. Still, nobody
has got close enough to verify this story: the figure flees at
the sound of a car’s engine and even walkers catch only a
fleeting vision of him
Dr Deju is helping migrants in Adelaide, which is the
decorous sort of city he likes. But his nerves are in such a
state he does little work ; he suffers particularly on nights of
thunderless lightning, which makes him cower under his bed.


Business, Robbery, Etc.
THE BASIC WAGE
A Dangerous Rise
“YI7 E are not national eco-
nomic policy makers or
planners. We are confined to
the legislation under which we
act and, in particular, in basic
wage cases we have the func-
tion of deciding only what is a
just and reasonable basic
wage.” So say the three distin-
guished Commonwealth Con-
ciliation and Arbitration Com-
mission's judges in their unani-
mous decision to raise the
Federal basic wage by 12s. to
£l4 Bs. a week.
The Commissioners acknow-
ledge that “this does not mean,
of course, that we have not to
consider seriously the probable
effects of our decision on the
economy,” but then reiterate
that “this tribunal deals in its
reasons, as does any other
tribunal, with only those sub-
missions and facts which it
considers to be relevant to its
decision.”
r T'His is the crux of the matter.
Under the existing industrial
arbitration system, the principal
role of the Commission is to
settle an industrial dispute
placed before it. Technically,
the employers and the unions
were in dispute. The main
purpose of the hearing was to
settle the dispute, and this the
Commission proceeded to do,
treating the more general
economic considerations as
something of secondary im-
portance.
Time and time again, the
Commission’s comprehensive
judgment points out or implies
that it should not probe actively
into the complexity of our
economic situation or indicate
the desirable direction of eco-
nomic growth. And within its
peculiar constitutional frame-
work it is right.
However, the 12s. wage in-
crease granted by the Com-
mission has not merely settled
an “industrial dispute.” Some
two-million wage-earners in
almost every industry are
affected and repercussions will
be felt throughout the whole
economic structure.
About the only two valid
points in support of the Com-
mission's finding are these: an
immediate—and, at this stage,
desirable —fillip will be given to
the economy by putting more
money into circulation. It is
estimated that the wage hike
will cause an additional
monthly expenditure of about
£5 million, making the total
extra wage bill about £6O
million a year. Secondly, the
disparity between the Federal
and N.S.W. State basic wage
will be narrowed down.
Both these considerations
are very short term. More-
over, companies experiencing
liquidity difficulties will find
themselves extremely hard
pressed. Unemployment will
have a tendency to rise rather
than fall, and absorption of
surplus labor from the con-
sumer goods industries into the
capital goods sector will be
seriously retarded. There may
be an undesirable trend of
labor back into the non-essen-
tial sector, since the basic wage
rise will aid the consumer goods
producers, hire purchase firms
and retailers more than any
other part of the economy.
Thus even in the short run,
despite the absence of immedi-
ate inflationary pressure and
with a need to stimulate eco-
nomic activity, the basic wage
decision is a mixed blessing.
The long-run effects look
grim. The wage-earner will
lose most of his immediate in-
crease in purchasing power
through rapid price increases as
soon as the economy picks up,
and strong inflationary tenden-
cies reappear. The 12s. rise
will make it much more difficult
to control price rises when
things become more lively.
Dy and large, the Com mi s-
U sion's evaluation of Austra-
lia's economic position is highly
optimistic, sometimes un-
realistic —perhaps because of
its terms of reference. For in-
stance, the Commission agrees
with the evidence by Prof.
Campbell and Mr Chislett that
the future of the wool industry
depends on investment, which
at present comes from the
wool grow ers' profits, and that
“the wool grower will and in-
deed can only invest when his
income is adequate.” It like-
wise agrees that, at the moment,
not only the wool industry, but
the whole rural sector, is caught
in the pincer movement of
rising costs and falling profits.
Yet, it says that the posi-
tion of the primary sector as a
whole, including wheat, beef
and cattle and dairy industries,
“at the present time is reason-
ably satisfactory and is not
such . .. . as should inhibit us
from granting an increase in
the basic wage.”
T Importunately, the Commis-
si«on refuses to allow itself to
be influenced by such weighty
considerations as Australia's
position on the world market —
“although reference was made
by the employers to the dangers
to Australian primary industry
which might arise from the
European Common Market, we
f eel unable at this time to assess
the effects of that Market or,
indeed, of the possibility of the
United Kingdom’s entry into
it.” However strongly such a
stand is justified by formal con-
siderations, if is very short
sighted and dangerous to adopt.
It is unrealistic to maintain
that the Arbitration Commis-
sion is only a court of justice,
in this instance wage justice.
The effect of its decisions is
essentially economic, not legal.
Similar attitudes are taken
regarding the secondary indus-
try and the balance of payments
problems.
Some effects of the latest
wage boost are not difficult to
assess. The basic production
costs will rise toy some £6O
million a year. Although
relatively modest in absolute
terms the sum total of the
wage increase will have a much
greater impact through the
multiplier effect, as soon as the
economy pulls out from the
present trough. Inflationary
pressures will be considerably
intensified. The dangerous gap
between rural and industrial
incomes will be widened and
serious distortions in our eco-
nomic system further accen-
tuated.
Export industries trading on
the world market will be
severely hit. Rural producers,
who provide some 80 p.c. of
Australia’s total export earn-
ings, will experience immediate
and severe hardship.
Two final points. By favor-
ing the inflation-prone con-
sumer goods producers, hire
purchase firms and retailers, the
basic wage rise will hamper the
Federal Government's efforts
to bolster the basic industries.
This may bog down or frus-
trate the Government’s pains-
taking efforts to correct dis-
proportions in economic growth
at the expense of certain con-
sumer goods producers. These
corrections are essential and
long overdue, and any leanings
towards a ’‘mi Ik bar economy”
must be resisted. In the circum-
stances, it would be much wiser
to stimulate economic activity
and try to relieve unemploy-
ment by budgetary and fiscal
policies. The latest wage rise
will tie Mr Holt's hands when
he brings down the Federal
Budget next month.
r T'HE wage rise is a sop to un-
-1 skilled labor. It will narrow
down once again the all too
small margin enjoyed by the
skilled tradesman, and reduce
the incentives to acquire essen-
tial technical skills.
It is, indeed, tragic that the
main economic function of the
basic wage findings seems to
be to perpetuate a fool's para-
dise for the unskilled laborer
at the expense of the com-
munity as a whole.
NEW CALEDONIA
Two Hours Away
Tust two hours’ flying time
away from Sydney, in a
crown of a myriad of islands,
islets and reefs, lies the 250-
mile long, cigar-shaped island
of New Caledonia the
“Grande Terre” of French
Pacific dependencies. The
Chaine Centra le mountain
range, with some peaks rising
above 5000 ft. divides the island
into two distinct regions,
Called the “Land of Eternal
Spring,” New Caledonia boasts


A
Tl
7
F*
You’re so right..
insist on
' BLACK &
BLACK i WHITE
WHITE'
SCOTCH WHISKY
‘BUCHANANS’
By Appointment
to Her Majesty The Queen
Scotch Whisky Distillers
James Buchanan & Co. Ltd.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO. LTD. Glasgow • Scotland • London
3456
The
Commonwealth
and Europe 5216
Published by The Economist Intelligence
Unit Ltd.
• How fast will Commonwealth countries expand?
• How will freer trade in Europe affect Common-
wealth countries?
• How much can Commonwealth countries sell to
Europe?
Inquiries to:
Bureau of Economic and
Statistical Research
52 Queen St., Melbourne • 39 Martin Place, Sydney.
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write
to the Manager, who will quote you a price for the
original.
a pleasant climate and a wide
range of tourist attractions, to
be enjoyed at a reasonable
price.
The variety of landscape-
ranging from the flat niaouli-
covered west coast to the
mountainous Polynesian shores
of the east coast —and an
abundant and diversified fauna
offer a visitor the choice of
swimming, boating, pedal boat-
ing, water skiing, sailing, fish-
ing, underwater exploration,
island hikes and gay picnics
and, of course, the night life.
Big-game hunting and fishing
are a major tourist bait.
Another one is Noumea’s
small but well-stocked shop-
ping centre, trading in Paris
fashions, French lingerie and
perfumes. Founded by a
French naval officer in 1854,
this sophisticated island capital
has a population of about
30.000 and is the administra-
tive centre for New Caledonia's
27,000 Europeans, 38,000
Melanesians and 12,000 Tahi-
tians, Wallisians, Indonesians
and Vietnamese. Inter-racial
relations are good and habits
informal. In summer, shorts,
slacks and shirts and light
frocks suffice for all but the
most formal occasions.
There is more to it in New
Caledonia than travelling
native dances, and the alluring,
magnificently built Polynesian
girls. The island has consider-
able mineral wealth, and mining
js well developed. The Govern-
ment is anxious to stimulate
the tourist tiade, which offers
good returns, but there is con-
siderable difficulty in raising
sufficient capital locally. At the
moment hotel accommodation
is of a good standard but
severely limited, seriously re-
stricting the intake of tourists.
Several syndicates, including
at least one with Sydney con
nections, have sprung up in the
last two years with a view to
attracting foreign capital to
New Caledonia and the New
Hebrides. They seem to enjoy
the local and Paris Govern-
ments’ quiet blessing.
A Government agency, the
Plan Fides, was set up to aid
companies that are launched
with long term development
plans. Australian investment
figures more and more promi-
nently in these plans, both
because of geographical proxi-
mity and since it is hoped to
attract a sizeable volume of
tourists, particularly from the
Eastern States. Noumea has
already become popular with
New Zealanders.
Mr Millot, the French Em-
bassy’s Commercial Counsellor
in Sydney, told The Bulletin
that the “French authorities
will welcome Australian invest-
ment, subject to the provisions
of the French company law."
A special stand, devoted to the
French Pacific possessions, is
being prepared for the French
pavilion at the Sydney Trade
Fair
It is interesting to note that
French commercial law, applic-
able to New Caledonia, is
rather strict on company for-
mation. Shareholders are pro-
tected by several provisions,
such as the requirement that
the authorised capital must be
fully subscribed and at least
half the amount involved paid
in cash before final registra-
tion is granted. Other provi-
sions stipulate minimum divi-
dend payments and proportion
of profits to be allocated to
reserves.
EXPORTS
China Trade Risky
I3apidly and alarmingly, Big
Brother Mao's Red China
has become one of Australia’s
major trade partners. Large
sales of wheat and wool lifted
Australian exports to Com-
munist China by £18,035,000 to
£32,994,000 in the eleven
months to May 31, 1961, more
than double the previous year’s
figures.
Even more important, our
trade balance with mainland
China is overwhelmingly favor-
able—the latest trade surplus
amounted to more than £29
million. When measured against
the total volume of our Chinese
exports almost £33m. this
means that we sold more than
8.6 times as much as we bought,
In other words, for every £1
spent on imports from Com-
munist China Australia earned
almost £9 in exports—a rather
hefty ratio,
By contrast, Australia’s ex~
ports to the United Kingdom
during June, 1960-May, 196!
declined by £ 11,533,000 to
£213.735,000, mainly because
of lower wool prices. Total
exports to all countries during
the eleven months rose by
£13,726.000 to £873,056,000.
Export trade with all Common-


V
A
■ m.
whatever you choose
to drink...
*WOOL CHEQUE
To 2 ozs.
Gilbey’s Gin
add 1 oz.
Dry Vermouth
in a long glass.
Then add 2
ice cubes and
slice of lemon.
Fill with cold
Tonic Water.
Add to 2 ozs.
Gilbey’s Gin
a i oz. Sweet
Vermouth and
a i oz. fresh
orange juice.
Shake with ice
and pour.
Add cherry.
GIN
J
5®
mmm
.WSmsp*'--
don’t say gin... say
GILBEY’S
* drinks from the famous Gilbey Recipe Book. 9322 G
wealth countries increased by
£6,236,000 to £397,714,000.
China is now Australia’s fifth
largest customer outside the
Commonwealth, following
Japan (£143.2m., up £20.6m.),
U.S.A. (£59.8m., down £9.6m.),
France and French possessions
(£50.4m., down £8.3m.) and
Italy (£43.7m., almost un-
changed) and ahead of such
important countries as West
Germany (£24.2m., down
£ 11.9 m.) and the Belgium-
Luxemburg Customs Union
(£19.8m., down £2.3m.). While
Australian exports to Com-
munist China were rising, sales
to the other members of the
Communist bloc were generally
falling off. Lower wool prices
were again responsible. Trade
with Yugoslavia improved
slightly.
Japan has remained the best
Australian overseas market
outside the Commonwealth.
All this gives rise to much
reflection. The expansion of
Australia’s overseas trade will
depend to a considerable extent
on Japan’s economic growth
rate and its rising prosperity.
Unfortunately, primary pro-
duce may continue to be the
basis of our exports to Japan,
although coal and steel may
play a more important part.
Australian trade with China
may continue to grow, with the
trade balance remaining quite
favorable. However, there are
some grave problems affecting
exports to Communist China.
In particular, the huge jump in
China's purchases of Austra-
lian export commodities has
been caused by a desperate
shortage of food grains coming
in the wake of three successive
crop failures and the ruthless
industrialisation drive. To this
was added the effect of fairly
widespread mismanagement by
the Peking administration. In
these circumstances, the
Chinese Communist regim has
been forced to import wheat
and other foodstuffs on a large
scale.
The present situation is very
short run —it may radically
alter if China's food grain
balance improves in 1962-65.
Any favorable long range eco-
nomic forecast is hazardous.
Putting excessive emphasis on
exports to the Chinese market
is also dangerous politically.
Communists, particularly the
Peking government, have all
along used business to advance
their political ends. It is
amazing how often Western
exporters have swallowed the
red bait hook, line and sinker.
While large scale cash sales
to Communist China may be
quite useful for immediate
balance of payments considera
tions. it is more important to
concentrate on helping to raise
production and living standards
in the economically under-
developed friendly and neutral
countries of South-east Asia,
Latin America and Africa.
These areas can become a
natural market for Australian
exports, including—and this is
most important—manufactured
consumer goods and capital
equipment. Japan may then
become a major rival to our
industrial exports but, for-
tunately, its constantly rising
standard of living is narrowing
down the cost differential by
making its production more
expensive in real terms.
Australian trade prospects in
Europe largely depend on rela-
tions between the United King-
dom and the Common Market.
Australia must be prepared to
face substantial and unfavor-
able modifications to the exist-
ing preference arrangements.
It is quite likely that Australian
trade will orientate more and
more towards Asia, Africa and
Latin America.
Loosening of the old trade
ties with the United Kingdom
and the Continent is painful
but inevitable. It will be in-
creasingly difficult to sell Aus-
tralian manufactures in Europe.
Economically, this may have
the advantage of accelerating
the development of Australia
as a major industrial nation
rather than a primary producer.
If this switch remains
gradual, traditional bonds with
Britain and Europe —which are
not limited to trade links
need not disappear completely.
Australia's international posi-
tion should be improved by
greater independence, and it
may well become a bridge be-
tween the West and the East,
the old and the new. while itself
remaining a Western, and pre-
dominantly British, nation.
This aim must not be lost
sight of in the confusion of
thought, which so often follows
large windfall sales to such
chance and politically hostile
customers as Communist
China.
IMPORT RESTRICTIONS
Odd Bedfellows
BY CHARLES MEEKING
Tn recent months those curious
bedfellows, the Labor party
and the Victorian Chamber
of Manufactures, have been
asserting that all economic
problems would be solved by
restoration of import licensing
“on a selective basis.” Leaving
aside the revival of pressure
groups and possible black-
marketing which could follow,
it is worth trying to ascertain
what is meant.
The crux of the proposal is


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITp
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£A363,000,000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
start the day right!
m
iV^ssvi-
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
sure ly the problem of who
would do the selecting, and on
What basis. Labor hasn't
tackled this point, but the
manufacturers have approached
Mr Gordon More, president
of the Victorian Chamber, says
that “our imports should be on
a very selective basis.” Accord-
ing to him, the crucial test of
manufacturers’ imports should
be that they are “essential” and
“unobtainable in Australia.”
It will be noted that he did not
mention the comparative costs
of imported and locally-made
materials.
In other words, in the case
of the Chamber the authority
to decide what should go on
the select list of permitted
imports would be the manufac-
turer, with his vested interests
at stake and, until recently, a
pretty general disregard for
tackling export markets.
Mr Calwell and his followers
have concentrated on the more
picturesque items —the Ameri-
can canned chicken, which has
appeared in the stores, the
chocolate-covered ants and
other “luxuries.”
To an outside observer it
seems that the arrival of im-
ported chickens has stimulated
our local producers into pro-
viding better and cheaper fresh
poultry for the local market,
and into investigating the pos-
sibility of canning birds here.
And in time the very house-
wives who had earlier wel-
comed canned chicken have
become rather less enthusiastic
about it, and more critical of
its alleged lack of flavor.
It has been informative to
watch the counter of one
store, which apparently leaned
heavily—to the detriment of
our overseas balances —on im-
ported luxury foods.
British and American jams
and tinned fruit, Japanese
biscuits and canned octopus,
the aforesaid ants and other
lush-looking and highly-priced
articles have remained piled up
there in a manner which sug-
gests that most shoppers have
had the thrift and good sense
not to buy them. This means
that real “selection” is being
made by customers. It also
means, undoubtedly, that the
store’s buyer will be a lot more
selective himself on his next
trip overseas.
This seems a proper and fair
basis for selection, occasionally
aided by tariffs imposed after
full and expert inquiry by a
qualified body and by the
restriction of buyers’ credits.
None of it offers the slightest
argument for a return to
import licensing.
The situation does suggest
the need for maximum selec-
tivity to be exercised by the
voters at the next Federal poll.
Mr Calwell in office, expand-
ing controls and throwing our
money about on a social ser-
vices splurge would be the
worst possible thing for the
Australian economy —now or
at any time in future.
Speculator' s Diary
Monday, July 10
Thriving north of Sydney
along the Pacific Highway
the other day I happened upon
mile after mile of roadworks
and new kerbing and gutter-
ing. And right at the end,
disgorging concrete goodness,
was one of those green trucks
belonging to my old friends,
Pioneer Concrete. I thought
immediately of that new issue
rumor on which I sold my
Pioneer shares some weeks
ago and wondered when it
would turn up (it arrived next
day—one-for-five at par) as
the rights market should be
worth looking into.
But this roadside encounter
a \so turned my mind to
Pioneer’s rumored suitors, in
particular the uranium king,
Bio Tinto. I hold no brief for
Bio Tinto shares as an invest-
ment at present, but for specu-
lators there should be fire-
works both before and after
the takeovers start. Rio Tinto
obtained Stock Exchange list-
ing to make economical take-
overs, but has not as yet
enticed anyone into its maw.
The ss. shares are slowly
becoming scarcer than hen’s
teeth and have sold up to
17s. 6d., so when I noticed
they had come down to 14s. 9d.
I stepped in and bought 400
at 15s. on the way up again.
It seems to me that with so
few shares available (a mere 7
per cent, of capital) it would
not be hard to stage-manage a
good rise to clinch the in-
tended takeovers —when they
come. And when the rise
comes I’ll be out before the
takeover is announced, I hope.
In the meantime this cost me
£307 and left me financially
embarrassed.
Something had to go, and I
chose those Moran and Cato
I bought a few weeks ago on
the strength of a good interim
report. My regard for Moran
and Cato is undiminished —I
often buy my groceries there
—but when the shares jumped
to 235. during the week I put
in a selling order and got
225. 4yd.—profit £3O.
I also realised on my Par-
bury Henty shares at 15s. 6d.
for a loss of £22. Parbury
looks to me like a sad case of
public ignorance despite my
educative attempts.
These sales left me with
ample liquidity to send in my
cheque for £75 to cover my
Pyrox application money. This
company, incidentally, holds
a £3 million contract for the
supply of Linde oxygen equip-
ment to B.H.P. (an order that
looks like eventually ending
the beautiful friendship be-
tween the steel giant and Com-
monwealth Industrial Gases).
It is also expanding into the
pre-stressed concrete and con-
crete block making fields,
which should help give a
wider cover to the 9 per cent,
dividend.
The other unfinished busi-
ness from last week was to
buy back the five C.S.R. shares
I sold short. This I did at
£76 55., thereby helping to
push the shares up from the
low of £74 10s. The miserable
profit of £lO on the deal
raised my liquid resources
at the end of the week to a
handsome £72, and I am in
debt to no man.
The week’s transactions,
resulting in a profit of £lB
despite the loss on Parbury
Henty, were:
BOUGHT
400 Rio Tinto at 15/- £307
5 C.S.R. at £76/5/- £386
SOLD
300 Moran, Cato at
22/4f £329
200 Parbury at 15/6 .. £152
I now hold, for better or for
worse:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Total Per rent
Shares Company Cost Share Price
400 Antill R. £251 12/3 13/2
300 Pick-Me-Up 414 Sl/6£5/10/-
500 Merica 165 C/4 0/10
500 Stocks &
Holdings def. 212 8/3 8/9
200 Tom Piper 235 23/- 26/-
200 Hornibrook 234 23/ 22/6
200 Marrickville 217 21/3 25/9
132 Marley Tile 158 24/-
400 David Jones
notes 207 10/- 10/6
400 N. B. Love
contribs. 94 4/8 5/3
500 Newcastle Ten
Pin Bowling 125 5/- 5/7
400 Phillips Oil 100 5/-
100 James Hardie 391 77/- 82/6
300 McDonald 207 13/6 15/9
200 Southern TV 205 20/- 23/-
400 Ampol rights 42 2/- 2/4
400 Besser (Q.) 174 8/6 8/6
300 Pyrox 12 5/9 6/3
400 Rio Tinto 307 15/- 15/6


The WILDCAT
COLUMN
James Hardie Asbestos Ltd
V*7hen Pliny referred to asbestos as “the
funeral dress of kings” he failed to
envisage the practical application of
asbestos to the needs of modern industry.
For James Hardie Asbestos Ltd —
dynamic and very much among the living
-—this fabulous stone, which once set on
fire could not be quenched, has proved a
yeritable money spinner. James Hardie
Asbestos, exploiting asbestos to the
seams, turns out an earnings fabric,
silken lustred, rich in profits, crusted with
bonus issues and powerful through and
through with reserves backing.
A member of the successful and well
managed Hardie group, its origins dating
back to 1888, James Hardie Asbestos
boasts aggregate reserves, £4,355,602, well
in excess of ord. equity. The co. habitu-
ally provides more for taxation than it
claims as net profit, but, despite this fact,
still manages to keep published earnings
at an attractive level. In the past eight
years shareholders have been treated to
three bonus issues, a one-for-ten handout
in 1954 and one-for-two handouts in
1955 and 1959. Paid capital, including
223,155 20s. ords. issued as purchase con-
sideration, has risen, in the same time,
from £1,150,000 (in 1954) to £3,330,982.
Intensive plough-back of profits has
ensured a satisfactory rate of return on
capital invested. Acquisition of Better
Brakes Holdings Ltd in 1959 has widened
the co’s scope and improved its earning
capacity. The new subsidiary is a well-
established specialist in the servicing of
automotive brakes and also a distributor
of brakes and clutch replacement parts.
Other subsidiaries include:
James Hardie and Coy Pty (Sydney).
James Hardie and Coy Pty (Auckland,
N.Z.).
Asbestos Cement Pty (Adelaide).
Asbestolite Pty (Adelaide).
Asbestos Mines Pty (Sydney).
Head office is in Sydney’s York Street,
“Asbestos House” providing an attrac-
tive and imposing structure, the nexus
of the James Hardie Asbestos group.
Activity ranges the manufacture of
asbestos cement, fiat and corrugated
sheets, gutters, downpipes, flue pipes,
moulded accessories, high-pressure water
pipes, underground conduits, marble-
finished asbestos cement sheets, thermal
insulation materials, terra-cotta tiles and
automotive brake linings and clutch fac-
ings. The building and allied industries
constitute the group’s main customers.
A portion of raw material require-
ments is supplied from the co’s asbestos
mine at Baryulgil in N.S.W. The co.
is also a shareholder in the Cape Asbestos
Co. Ltd of the U.K., which supplies it
with raw asbestos. Factories and sub-
sidiary plants are located in all mainland
States and New Zealand.
James Hardie Asbestos has followed a
policy of rapid expansion financed by
extensive re-investment of earnings, aided
by substantial borrowings on mortgage
and bank overdraft. Depreciation write-
off has been high all along. Moreover,
during 1958 and 1959 the co. built up a
£425,000 provision for plant replacement
—this per medium of two transfers,
£250,000 in 1958 and £175,000 in 1959,
ex profits.
Latest result reflects increased turnover
(undisclosed), with all subsidiaries trad-
ing profitably. Competition was especially
keen, the more so from November on-
wards following the restrictive financial
measures introduced by the Common-
wealth Government measures which
have effectively reduced the level of home
building.
Consolidated net profit from trading
and investments for the year ended
March 31, 1961, was disclosed at £573,253
(up £50,660) after taking off £98,947 pay-
ments to staff fund, writing off a massive
£1,066,159 for depreciation (up £183,318),
deducting minority-interests and provid-
ing £821,054 for Australian and N.Z.
income tax (up £145,910):
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Mar. To Re- Re-
-31, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.*
£> £■£,£,
1956. .359,029 10 p.c. =189,750 169,279 2,580,796
Added reserves on acquisition of sub-
sidiary, etc., £117,705 .. .. 2,698,501
Additions, sinking fund, £3959 .. 2,702,460
1957. .337,110 10 p.c. =197,250 139,860 2,842,320
To depreciation provision, £23,350.. 2,818,970
1958. 10 p.c. =199,750 414,693 3,233,663
Tax overprovided, £IOO,OOO .. 3,333,663
Revaluation property, etc. £42,308 3,375,971
1959. .560,477 10 p.c. =199,750 360,727 3,736,698
Share premiums, £IIO,OOO .. 3,846,698
Assets-revaluation, £1,112,974 .. 4,959,672
Reserves capitalised, £1,110,327 .. 3,849,345
Increase difference cost and book-value
shares in subsidiaries, £108,269.. 3,957,614
Increase contingencies reserve, £68,749 4,026,363
Less transfer for subsidiary to con-
tingencies reserve, £6200 .. 4,020,163
1960. .522,593 10 p.c. =331,098 191,495 4,211,658
Decrease difference cost and book-
value shares in subsids., £96,211 4,115,447
1961. .573,253 10 p.c. =333,098 240,155 4,355,602
* Subject to goodwill, £98,449 at 31/3/’6l.
The big increase (£183,318) in provision
for depreciation, coupled with a much
higher tax slug, suggests that an appreci-
able portion of the write-down of fixed
assets may have been disallowed tax-
wise.
The figure for combined tax provision
bears no relation whatsoever to the profits
shown. At £821,054, it would be applic-
able to a theoretical consolidated net
profit of about £1,230,000 after tax, bas-
ing the calculation on ruling Australian
tax rates (c.f. £1,125,000 in 1960 and
£703,000 in 1959). The absence of
separate N.Z. earnings and tax figures
and possible tax complications with sub-
sidiaries make these theoretical calcula-
tions useful only as an indication of the
trend in profits.
Conjecture aside, consolidated net
profit as revealed, works out equivalent
to an earning rate of 17.2 p.c. on paid
capital. This compares with 15.8 p.c. i n
the preceding term, 28 p.c. and 30.7 p. c ,
(both including transfers to plant replace-
ment provision in consolidated net earn-
ings) in 1959 and 1958, and 16.9 p.c. and
18.9 p.c. in 1957 and 1956. The div,
rate was steady at 10 p.c., absorbing, in
all, £333,098. Reserves received £240,155
and, after deducting the difference be-
tween cost and book-value of shares in
subsidiaries, £96,211, rose £143,944 to
£4,355,602 subject to intangibles,
£98,449 at close of the accounts, and
including £425,000 plant replacement pro-
vision.
The balance sheet fully amplifies the
basic strengths of the James Hardie
Asbestos organisation. Capital invest-
ment is enormous. A new “Fibrolite”
pressure-pipe factory at Elizabeth, S.A.,
to open shortly, “will play an important
part in major town reticulation and stock-
watering schemes.” Following introduc-
tion of autoclaved “Fibrolite” flat sheets
in eastern States, similar plants have been
set up in S.A. and W.A. and the product
is meeting with “immediate acceptance
and favorable comment through the
building trade.” Additional capacity has
been installed for further production of
the new product “Tilux.” The book
value of freeholds, leaseholds, plant, etc.,
jumped £1,297,126 to £7,833,842:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1959. 1960. 1961.
Paid capital ..£1,997,500 £3,330,982 £3,330,982
Reserves .. 3,736,698 4,211,658 4,355,602
Minority interest 25,000 25,000
Loans .. .. 467,100 476,615 695,840
Overdraft .. 6 05,25 4 8 9 2,67 5 1,0 4 0,057
Creditors, etc... 1,374,614 1,591,59 2 2,266,780
Tax provision.. 854,059 1,100,430 1,415,212
Suspense .. 50,903
Final dividend.. 99,875 1 66,549 166,549
£9,186,003 £11,795,501 £13,296,022
Freeholds, plant,
etc 4,932,768 6,536,716 7,833,842
Shares . . 259,63 2 259,63 2 259,632
Stocks .. 2,611,729 2,831,257 3,092,932
Debtors .. 1,202,532 1,900,024 1,973,434
Cash, bonds .. 80,893 84,059 18,999
Suspense .. 85,364 18,734
Goodwill .. 98,449 98,449 98,449
£9,186,003 £11,795,501 £13,296,022
Theoretical working capital (down
£867,327 at £196,767) looks a bit slim
with hefty increases in overdraft (up
£147,382 at £1,040,057), creditors (up
£675,188 at £2,266,780 and including de-
posits at call or short-term, £606,876) and
stocks (up £261,675 at £3,092,932). The
group has arranged, however, some addi-
tional fixed-term finance which will allow
reduction of short-term borrowings.
The Hardie group may find itself hard
put to equal last term’s performance—
that is, real performance—at next
reckoning, but, one way or the other, the
odds run out an even money bet. The
plight of the building industry, at least
that of the home-building industry, is
receiving much attention in governmental
circles, and definite steps have been
taken to boost activity. What is more, it
seems that the worst is over and that
James Hardie Asbestos has weathered the
storm. The 20s. ords. look a good buy at
present prices, though they could have
been had for 675. 6d. two months ago.
At 83s. immediate return is 2.4 p.c. A
bonus issue could be just around the
corner, and perhaps other benefits as


A. L. NEYITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
{Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Fife Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 P.O. Box
(4 Lines) No. 1887 W
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
Ralph W. King & Yuill
33 Bligh St., 20 O’Connell St., Sydney.
2-0137.
84 William St., Melbourne. 67-5089.
340 Queen Street, Brisbane. 31-2191.
Cables and Telegrams: “KALPHKING,”
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Grafton,
Tamworth and Armidale.
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
R. H. ALLEN, M. R. L. DOWLING,
P. R. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS, N. R.
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner).
Delfln House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
25-5911 (26 lines).
Prudential Building, 150 Queen St.,
Melbourne. 67-5951 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney.
Melbourne, or Wollongong.
JOHN N. ROBERTSON
member of the Stocb Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKER.
Temple Court,
Itt Collins Street, Melbourne C.l.
Telephones: 67 4804, 67 2465
Telegrams & Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
well- Meantime, at March 31 the 20s.
ords. were each backed by net tangibles,
a soiid 555. 7d.
Wunderlich Ltd
A celebrated song writer, something of
a composer too, his output including
an album of songs and many pianoforte
pieces, Ernest Henry Charles Wunderlich
is best remembered for his symphonic
works on the platform of industry. The
widespread ramifications of Wunderlich
Ltd stand testimony of Wunderlich's busi-
ness acumen and foresight, preserving his
name in the annals of progress for
posterity and perhaps for all time.
Today, from a score of factories
scattered throughout the Commonwealth,
this big integrated organisation—largest
and most successful of its kind in the
country —supplies the building and con-
struction trades, with terra-cotta roofing
tiles, architectural terra-cotta, ceramic
facings, stoneware pipes, asbestos cement
(durabestos) sheets, stainless-steel sinks,
aluminium window frames, doors, curtain
walling, etc. (under licence from Cupples
Products Corporation of St Louis, U.S.A.)
and other metal articles.
The business is an expanding one and
new products are constantly being devel-
oped. During last term, in August, 1960,
the co. announced plans for formation
of a large scale £3,000,000 organisation,
Wunderlich Humes Asbestos Pipes Pty
(to be jointly owned with Humes Ltd),
to manufacture and market asbestos-
cement pipes for use in water supply,
sewerage, etc., and as electrical and
telephone conduits —factories to be estab-
lished in Melbourne and Sydney ; produc-
tion to commence late 1961. More
recently, and during the current term,
the co. effected its first venture into the
plastics field acquiring the capital of a
small Sydney co., Staplefield Plastics Pty
—consideration involving issue of 7749
20s. ords.
Manufacture and distribution, includ-
ing the laying of roof tiles, etc., are
carried out in all States except W.A.,
and there is a worthwhile export trade,
as weH, with New Guinea and the South
Pacific islands. The co.’s Western Aus-
tralian interests were merged with those
of H. L. Brisbane and Co. in 1938 to
form H. L. Brisbane and Wunderlich Ltd,
in which Wunderlich Ltd remains a sub-
stantial shareholder. The Western Aus-
tralian co. is soundly based but will be
hard pressed to repeat last year’s perform-
ance in the current term. Latest divs.
went out at 10 p.c.
The scope of Wunderlich’s activities,
and the range of products manufactured,
helps the co. cope with fluctuations in
the levels of home and commercial build-
ing, factors which should stand it in
good stead during the immediate future.
The fiscal measures introduced by the
Commonwealth Government in Novem-
ber, directed, inter alia, at certain sections
of the building industry, have checked
expectations of better things and “during
the past few weeks,” according to chair-
man Mr A. Wunderlich, May 25 last, “we
have seen in our order bookings, increas-
ing evidence of the impact of these restric-
tions.” The number of new houses com-
menced in the quarter ended March,
1961, throughout Australia, was 14 p.c.
lower than the quarter ended March, 1960,
and the number of new houses under con-
struction throughout Australia at March
31 was the lowest at any time since 1948.
*‘Those of our products used in com-
mercial and industrial buildings have,
happily, been least affected but sales of
some of our housing products are at a
lower rate than even three months ago.”
The present outlook must remain un-
certain pending the success or failure of
recent moves by the Commonwealth
Government to stimulate home building.
But, one way or the other, good things
are assured. Longer - term prospects are
exceptionally bright. Earnings leapt
ahead with the revival of private building
activity after the 1939-45 war, the co.
taking advantage of the situation to re-
invest a large proportion of its profits
in the new plant and premises needed for
a greatly expanded output and the intro-
duction of new products.
Shareholders made more direct contri-
butions to the expansion programme
through a one-for-four issue in 1949
and a one-for-two offering in 1956 (both
issues carrying a 50 p.c. premium),
further funds coming from a £500,000
mortgage loan arranged with the A.M.P.
Society in 1951. Bonus scrip was handed
out (one-for-two) in 1955, following a
partial revaluation of freeholds, the issue
of 144,475 20s. ords., as consideration
under building contracts, taking ord.
capital to £1,376,648 by the end of last
term. Since then, books closing March 6,
Wunderlich has treated again, 344,162 20s.
ords. going out, one-for-four, at a pre-
mium of 15s. —application monies, 10s.
a unit (of this 50 p.c. capital, 50 p.c.
premium), were due and payable May 1 ;
the balance is payable in two calls, 10s.
on September 1, 1961, and 15s. on March
1, 1962. Proceeds will be used to finance
general expansion, plus the new Wunder-
lich-Humes project. As the project is
envisaged io cost at least £3,000,000 and
Wunderlich is to contribute 50 p.c. of
this figure, it seems very likely that the
co. will seek additional funds. A further
share issue is indicated, probably within
the next 12 months or so.
Turning now to latest efforts, to the
year ended February 28, 1961, Wunder-
lich surprises, pulling record sales from
an economy frosted deep in legislative
ice. Demand for metal acoustic ceilings
increased. So, too, the demand for
aluminium windows “we market the
largest range of aluminium windows in
Australia and as well have recently com-
menced the manufacture of aluminium
sliding doors. Terra-cotta roofing tiles
sales were maintained. Wide publicity fol-
lowed the use of ceramic glazed structural
blocks on the substantial Myers regional
shopping centre at Chadstone, Victoria.
Turnover is not revealed, but net
profit comes in finally a solid £289,470
(up £13,670 and also a record) after
charging all expenses, setting aside
£299,117 for depreciation (up £20,732)


CUSTOM
CORPORATION
z
CREDIT
LIMITED
Offers to Long or Short Term Investors
REGISTERED FIRST
MORTGAGE DEBENTURES
10 Years and over .... 8%
4 Years to 9 Years .. . 7%
3 Years sf%
2 Years b\°/o
12 Months' notice .... 5f%
9 Months' notice .... 5}%
6 Months' notice .... 4|%
3 Months' notice .... 3|%
CUMULATIVE STOCK
3 to 20 Years, 6% per annum
Applications must be made on the Forms enclosed
in the Prospectus, which is now available from
ALL MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGE
Every Branch of
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Each of the Branches of
CUSTOM CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
130 New South Head Road, Darling Point, Sydney. Telephone: FM 5861.
Assets in Australia exceed £86,006,000
CCC3.561
and something, a mystery, for
tax:
f Dividends-—,
Net Pref. Ord. Re-
Feb.,Profit. 7 p.c. 15 p.c. serves.*
£ £ £ £
To staff partners, £25,500 443,094
From inner reserves and
profit sale assets, £81,684 524,778
*64. .212,227 11,200 82,144 643,661
Asset revaluation reserve,
£273,816 1 .. 917,477
’55..258.919 11,200 82,145 1,083,051
Res. capitalised, £273,816 809,235
124 p.c.
*56..201,569 11,200 102,803 896,801
Share premiums, £136,908 1,033,709
Profit sale shares, £109,375 1,143,084
*57..240,198 11,200 134,826 1,237,256
Share-premiums, £68,454. . 1,305,710
’5B. .252,711 11,200 165,369 1,381,852
’59..270,750 11,200 165,706 1,475,696
’60..275,800 11,200 166,425 1,573,871
’61..289,470 11,200 172,212 1,679,929
* After deducting goodwill ( £73,888 at
29/2/61).
Pref. shareholders collected
their usual £11,200, the balance
of the profit representing a
return of 20.2 p.c. on ord.
capital, compared with 19.9,
19.5, 18.3, 19.6 and 23.2 p.c.
back to 1956. The ord. div.
was steady at 12y p.c., but the
cheque was slightly higher at
£172,212 because of a small
increase in equity.
The £106,058 reinvested in
the business pushed reserves
(subject to £73,888 of intan-
gibles) £217,169 past share
capital, as it stood at close of
accounts, the balance-sheet
disclosing a sound and com-
fortable financial set-up;
Paid capital— 1960. 1961.
Pref. .. £160,000 £160,000
Ord. .. 1,328,348 1,376,648
Reserves .. 1,647,759 1,753,817
Mortgage . . 504,000 492,800
Overdraft . . 141,925 291,454
Creditors, etc... 1,241,075 1,318,538
Final divs.. .. 89,172 92,678
£5,112,279 £5,485,935
Freeholds . . 1,128,234 1,184,045
Plant, etc. 1,138,277 1,310,204
Shares, etc. .. 142,359 174,860
Stocks .. .. 1,724,894 1,730,444
Debtors . i ' . . 764,488 983,698
Cash, bonds . . 140,139 28,796
Intangibles .. 73,888 73,888
£5,112,279 £5,485,935
The book values of freeholds,
leaseholds, etc., and plant,
machinery, etc., jumped
£55,811 and £171,927 respec-
lively, the increases reflecting
extensions at the Villawood
(N.S.W.) aluminium products
factory, remodelling of the
Melbourne showroom and
offices, and erection of a new
showroom, home - building
advisory centre and office
building in Brisbane. Shares,
etc., in at cost or less, moved
ahead £32,501 to £174,860
following on initial investment
in the asbestos-cement pipe
project. Mortgage liability
was reduced by £l 1,200. There
was a substantial build-up in
book debts (up £219,210 at
£983,698), a side effect of the
credit restrictions, and bame
overdraft climbed £149,529 to
£291,454.
Conservative accounting is
evident right down the Wun-
derlich line. Firstly, there is
the hefty depreciation write-
off in excess of visible profit;
secondly, the tax omission,
both factors suggesting treasure
trove back of the p. and ],
structure. Then there is the
remarkable stability of earnings
achievement in recent years
despite the upward pressure of
an unprecedented building
boom. It all boils down to the
fact that Wunderlich is a co.
where directors disclose profit
only to the extent that it is
expedient to do so. And for
this very reason there are
strong prospects of capital
gain in the near future—pend-
ing revelation of inner strength
when the new Companies Act
comes into force.
The stock looks a better than
average buy at present prices,
the 20s. ords. fetching 665. last
week. The ss. contribs.
touched 355. Immediate yield
for the fully-paids, with pros-
pects galore, works out a not
unreasonable 3.8 p.c. Based
on conservative book values,
the net tangible cover at
balance date was 445. sd.
Australian Cash Orders Ltd
Tn the realms of credit finance,
the cash-order boom of the
middle ’twenties has remained
unparalleled until recent years,
when, and only in the last
decade, the even more colorful
hire-purchase alternative got
under way. A more sophisti-
cated credit medium, h.-p. has
become the cash-order system’s
most deadly rival. Cash orders
were never intended to cover
the purchase of things like
motor vehicles or refrigerators,
and, also, at least in N.S.W.,
statutory limits exist on the
amount of orders which an in-
dividual can take out at a given
time. There still remain spheres
of consumer spending however
—consumer goods as opposed
to consumer durables—where
cash order finance reigns
supreme. While continuing to
exploit these somewhat limited
avenues to the full A.C.O. has
expanded increasingly away
from the cash-order field into
the more lucrative h.-p. and
furniture-retailing businesses.
Australian Cash Orders Ltd
had its origin 41 years ago in
a flourishing cash order busi-
ness passed over by Bucking-
hams Ltd, of Sydney, in 1920,
to certain of its employees. By
1928 £133,609 of the then
£198,446 of paid capital had
come from gift scrip Even ifl
the depression the co. turned
out an earning rate which
would have permitted an 8 pc
distribution on the then paid
capital of £206,900, a largish


FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS, £891,419.
TANGIBLE ASSETS, £3,184,264.
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
WITH RIGHT OF RECALL
ON 30 DAYS’ NOTICE
3 months . . . . m ?, p.a.
Financing world-
famous products
distributed by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies.
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
LISTER
Engines
GROUP SALES
IN 1960
£14,757,281
MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send, me, without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 1/4/61, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS -
8.15/7
HD82.8
figure when translated into
present-day values.
Besides its finance offices,
located in Sydney, Melbourne
and Brisbane, A.C.O. operates
and finances home furnishing
offshoots in these cities and also
at Parramatta, Newcastle and
Wollongong in N.S.W.
Although the two aspects of the
business are closely integrated,
by far the greater proportion
of earnings comes from dis-
counts, commission and interest
earned, rather than from furni-
ture trading.
Consolidated accounts are
given for the subsidiaries only,
whose balance dates trail nearly
12 months behind that of the
parent, itself purely a financier.
The parent’s accounts show
that last year it received
£379,847 (up £33,638) in in-
terest, discounts, etc., £75,527
(up £14,507) in divs. from sub-
sidiaries and £13,580 (up £1476)
in rents, a total of £468,954.
Expenses, £341,123 (up
£49,781), were necessarily
heavier and include provisions
for doubtful debts, depreciation
(up £BO at £2052), etc., in aggre-
gate, £54,991 (up £15,368), and
interest paid, £72,894 (up
£18,653). The improvement in
furniture retailing, as evidence
the higher divs. from sub-
sidiaries, with consequential in-
creases in financing operations,
enabled A.C.O. to all but main-
tain the previous year’s profit
level, despite the much heavier
provision for bad debts. Parent
net profit settled £2160 to
£99,831:
Parent Only.
Re-
Mch., Profit. Dividends x serves.*
£ ' £ £
Share-issue exps. w/off, £132 210,553
’52.. 73,441 17| P-c. = 60,055 223,939
’53.. 68,036 17! „ „ 64,754 227,221
Share premiums, £2OlO . . 229,231
’54.. 94,361 17-i p.c. = 65,242 258,350
Share premiums, £42,436 .. 300,786
Share-issue exps. w/off, £63 300,723
’55.. 87,117 17! p.c. = 70,397 317,443
Share premiums, £4063 . . 321,506
’56.. 75,471 15 p.c. = 62,617 334,360
’57.. 45,618 10 „ „ 41,996 337,982
’58,.-52,034 10 p.c. = 41,483 348,533
’59.. 69,624 121 p.c. = 51,486 366,671
Freeholds revalued, £183,759 550,430
Share premiums, £292 . . 550,722
’60..101,991 121 p.c. = 58,063 594,650
Share premiums, £3653 . 598,303
’61.. 99,831 15 p.c. = 87,532 610,603
* Subject to goodwill £127,513,
March 31, 1961.
Written after setting aside
£28,000 (up £2OOO and includ-
ing “an extra £lOOO for dis-
allowance of interest paid under
the emergency legislation”) for
taxation, the result works out
at 17.1 p.c. on average capita),
as against 22 p.c., 16.4 p.c., 12.3
P-c., 10.8 p.c. and 17.9 p.c. back
to 1956.
Capital is held in three classes
of 20s. scrip—£lB,7oo of “A”
stock issued to the vendors of
and originally restricted
as to transfer, but now on the
same basis as the ord. “B”
stock except that like the
£40,223 of non - transferable
employees’ shares, they are
precluded from sharing in
assets until “B” stock or share-
holders have been paid in full.
During last term the co. effected
a one-for-four 20s. “B” ord.
par issue, stock and note
holders participating. The
issue, available as well to prcf.
holders in the subsidiaries,
Ruggles and Ringrose Ltd and
Parramatta Furniture Co. Ltd,
involved 163,000 “B” ords. so
that, at balance date, “B” stock
comprised £622,948.
The div. rate was upped from
to 15 p.c. leaving £12,299
for transfer to reserves. Re-
serves moved ahead £15,953 to
£610,603. Though divs. were
cut from 15 to 10 p.c. in 1957,
the average div., in the last ten
years, is quite attractive at 14\
p.c., from a long term point of
view.
The parent’s balance sheet re-
veals a big jump in book debts
(up £251,971 at £1,663,776);
reflecting increased business.
Sundry liabilities advanced
£198,964 to £336,643. Bank
overdraft slipped £76,746 to
£186,348:
Parent Only.
i 960. i9Gi.
Paid capital . : £518,845 £681,871
Reserves .. -594,650 610,003
Mortgages . ; 144,250 136,750
7 p.c. notes . . 250,6,00 . 250,000
8 p.c. notes .. 105,065 130,000
Overdraft .. 263,094 186,348
Sundry liabilities i 37,679 336,643
Due to subsids.. : 253,180 291,377
Provisions* . . 123.456 136,1,86.
Final div. . . 31,470 -49,944
£2,421,689 £2,809,722
Freeholds, e-tc.7 . 302,621 316,263
Shares subsids.. i '402,460 467,660
Debtors, etc. .. 1,411,805 1,663,776
Due by subsids. 175,308 232,505
Cash ‘ . . - . . 1,982 2,005
Goodwill .. 127,513 127,513
. £2,121,689 £2,809,722
* Bad debts, depreciation, taxation, etc.
A.C.O. has relied heavily on
note and mortgage finance to
fuel its growing activity. There
are, all told, £130,000 in 8 p.c.
unsecured notes, convertible
March 31, 1965, £250,000 in
7 p.c. registered unsecured
notes, redeemable October 1,
1965. Mortgage borrowings
from the C.M.L. were reduced
to £136,750 (down £7500).
In February last, Australian
Home Furnishers Ltd (a sub-
sidiary) effected an issue of
200,000 20s. 9 p.c. cum. prefs.,
A.C.O. shareholders participat-
ing, one 20s. pref. for each £4
of funds, of any denomination,
held in A.C.O.
Summing up, A.C.O. has a
fine div. record which by most
standards must rank as impres-
sive. Allied to this, the co. has
displayed a resilience and a
buoyancy in good times and
bad alike, even in the slough
of depression. Immediate pros-
pects are affected by a per-
sistent and easing tendency in
the volume of business but
there still remains a large
amount of cash outstanding on
earlier record business. Accord-
ing to chairman Mr A. S. White
the fall in furniture sales, direct
consequence of the credit
squeeze, “would bring the cur-
rent year’s sales back to the
level of two years ago.”
Meantime the 20s. “B” stock
units fetch around 265. to return
an immediate yield of 11.5 p.c.
from a continued 15 p.c. div.
The 8 p.c. notes sold for 20s.
6d. last week returning 7.8 p.c.
At balance date the parent’s
accounts showed net tangibles


/
Invest with confidence
in a company with a sound growth
record and secure asset hacking
• . . ideal for either
long or short term investment.
FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
in multiples of £lOO, payable in full
Upon application . . . unconditionally guaranteed by
Retailers Acceptance Ltd. . . . assets exceed £3,400,000
• . . registers Sydney and Brisbane
All/ per'annum
'2/1 6-10 years
9%
per annum
4-5 years
BIX
per annum
2-3 years
B%j per annum
/• 12 mths. fixed
7K
per annum
9 mths. notice
7%
per annum
6 mths. notice
68
.per annum
3 mths. notice
interest payable
quarterly
free oj exchange
RETAILERS
ACCEPTANCE
(QLD.)
LTD.
280 PITT ST., SYDNEY. PHONE HA 2373
509 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE. PHONE 31 1951
Underwriting Brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL . . . 20 O’Connell St., Sydney, &
340 Queen St., Brisbane.
LIONEL A. McFADYEN & CO, . . 20 O’Connell St., Sydney, &
Musgrave St., Port Moresby.
LANCE JONES & CO. 108 Creek St., Brisbane, &
108 Victoria Street, Mackay.
Banker for the issue: BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES
Trustee for the Debenture Stockholders:
BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES NOMINEES PTY. LTD.
Prospectus and Applications:
A copy of the Prospectus has been lodged with the Registrar of
Companies, Brisbane. Applications accepted only on the application
form attached to the Prospectus, which may be obtained from
• any member of a recognised Stock Exchange • Retailers
Acceptance (Qld.) Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane • all branches
Bank of New South Wales in N.S.W., Q’ld., and New Guinea
• the offices of the underwriting brokers.
526
of 375. sd. for every £ of “B”
capital.
Bums Philp (South Sea)
Co. Ltd
Taking a leaf from the
account book of its Aus-
tralian - based namesake and
mentor, Burns Philp (South
Sea) Co. Ltd leaves at least its
common or garden backers, if
not in outer darkness, then in
a very murky twilight. Modesty
in the treatment of asset
values goes hand in glove with
pessimism where liabilities are
concerned and this line of
approach seems also to govern
the balance on profit-and-loss.
Of course, mindful of rather
lean years in the not too distant
past, the board is quite justified
in underplaying its hand, pro-
vided only that small - time
shareholders aren’t misled as to
the real value of their equity.
The co. was registered in Fiji
in 1920 and is a well known
island merchant and shipowner.
It trades throughout the South
Seas. Biggest shareholder is
the parent Burns Philp, which
has maintained a constant two-
thirds interest. Ties with the
parent are close, and its in-
fluence may be felt throughout
the accounts structure and
procedurally as well.
Possibly net earnings, as dis-
closed today, diverge less froni
reality than in past years.
Gleanings from “inner re-
serves” seem to have tapered
off, whereas 15 years ago they
not uncommonly exceeded the
total of net profit. Yet, and
granted this, it is still difficult
to estimate true profits and
earning capacity. The co. may
have relaxed slightly its overall
conservatism but still pursues
a diehard policy in regard to
full disclosure.
Latest results the first
downturn since 1954- —have
been affected by difficult trading
conditions resulting “from de-
clining copra prices and pro-
longed disorganisation to the
sugar industry in Fiji caused by
industrial disturbances.” Turn-
over is not disclosed but gross
profit from all sources, for the
year ended January 31, 1961,
amounted to £780,430 (up
£21,520) —all figures are in £
Fijian.
Visible net profit declined by
£16,171, or 9.9 p.c., to £146,864.
Expenses were heavier: salaries,
wages, etc., climbing £21,141 to
£502,892 , bad debts and pro-
vision for doubtful debts climb-
ing £1616 to £28,100. Contri
butions to staff fund fell £145
to £12,146. Depreciation
write - off took £88,930 (up
£15,080):
Net Re-
Jan.. Profit. , Dividends—, serves.
£ £ £
’54.-100,924 10 p.c. = 75,000 1,0174)38
Unx’d. addition, £11,384 1,029,322
’55..113,137 10 p.c. = 75,000 1,067,459
Unx’d. addition, £23,738 1,091,197
’56..120,850 10 p.c. = 75,000 1,143,047
Unx’d. addition. £20,031 1,163,078
’57..136,509 10 p.c. = 75,000 1,22 4,587
Unx’d. addition, £8693.. 1,233,280
’5B-142,362 10 p.c*. = 87,500 1, 2887142
Unx’d. addition, £1177.. 1,289,310
’59-160,283 10 p.c. = 100,00 0 1,349,602
Unx’d. addition, £12,118 1,361,720
’60..163,035 10 p.c. = 100,000 1,424,755
Unx’d. reduction, £6353 1,418,402
’6l-146,864 10 p.c. = 100,000 1,465,200
Taxation provision was not
revealed separately, but was in-
cluded in total operating ex-
penses.
The disclosed earning rate
slipped from 16.3 p.c. to 14.7
p.c. on the unchanged ord. capi-
tal compared with 16 p.c., 16 3
p.c., 18.2 p.c. and 16.9 p.c. back
to 1956. The steady 10 p.c. div.
absorbed £lOO,OOO. Reserves
benefited by £46,864 less un-
explained reductions, £6353,
and appeared at £1,465,266,
supporting a paid capital of
£1,000,000 in 20s. f.-p. ords.
The div. rate was stepped up
to 10 p.c. in 1950 and has
remained unchanged since,
despite the capital increase
in 1958 (from £750,000 to
£1,000,000), the first increase
since incorporation. Divs,
averaged a modest 6.7 p.c. in
the first 30 years of trading.
The balance sheet shows


Positions Vacant
SYDNEY CHURCH OF ENG-
LAND GRAMMAR SCHOOL,
NORTH SYDNEY
A vacancy will exist in 1962 tor a
Teacher in Mathematics up to
honours matriculation standard.
Preference will be given to a
younger member of the profession.
Apply for further details to the
Headmaster, XB 2263.
B. H. TRAVERS, Headmaster.
Divorce Notice
Matrimonial Causes Act 1959.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND
Matrimonial Petition No. 174 of 1961.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
Between: VIOLET HEATHER JENSEN
Petitioner and RONALD GEORGE
JENSEN Respondent—To: RONALD
GEORGE JENSEN The abovenamcd
Respondent.—TAKE NOTICE that a
Petition has been presented to the
Supreme Court of Queensland by your
wife Violet Heather Jensen of 81
Palm Avenue, ShornclilVe in the State
of Queensland , instituting proceedings
for a decree of dissolution of marriage
and also seeking orders with respect
to custody, permanent maintenance and
costs.
If you desire to appear and be heard
in the action you should file an answer
to the Petition in the Registry of the
Supreme Court of Queensland within
twenty-eight days from the date of
the publication hereof. : —Dated this
Twenty-seventh day of June, 1961.
LIPPI ATT & CO. Solicitors for the
Petitioner whose address for sendee
is at 225—-231 George Street, Brisbane
in the State of Queensland.
Printed by The Bulletin Newspaper
Co. Pty. Ltd., 252 George Street
Sydney, for the publishers, Australian
Consolidated Press Ltd., 168 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £173,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House. Bligh/O’Connell Streets, SYDNEY
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
little movement apart from a
big jump in the book-value of
nroperties, shipping, etc. (up
£153,124 at £716,046) and a
massing forward of sundry
creditors, provisions, etc. .'up
£376,227 at £746.738). Stocks
on hand jumped £171,753 to
£1.517,160:
1960. 1961.
,1 . . £ 1,000,000 £ 1,000,000
•• 1-454,755 1,465.266
Owing to subsid. 537,912 448.732
Creditors, etc.. 1,251,733 1,622,724
Final div. • • 50,000 50,000
£4,264,400 £4,586,722
properties, ship-
ping, etc. .. 562,922 710,046
Shares subsid. .. 314,960 314,960
Investments .. 1,067,419 1,090,937
Stocks, etc. .. 1,345,407 1,517,160
Kook debts .. 716,320 733,558
Cash .. .. 257,372 214,061
£4,264,400 £4,586,722
Investment in Burns Phiip
(New Hebrides) Ltd, a wholly
owned subsidiary, remained at
£314,960. There is a £448,732
book debt owing to the sub-
sidiary (down £89,180). In-
vestment in other cos. advanced
by £23,518 to £1,090,937. Net
tangible asset backing visibly
worked out at 495. 4d. for each
20s. ord. unit.
Shareholders have a secure
investment in B.P. (S.S.) scrip.
The rest depends on the extent
to which the board will believe
it possible to dole out a little
more of the good things of life.
On the past record extrava-
gance is unlikely, although a
somewhat less conservative
policy is by no means out of the
question especially with the
parent co. shaping up for re-
vised co. legislation.
At the last sale in Sydney the
20s. ords. changed hands at 50s.
(Australian). The immediate
yield is 4.4 p.c. (allowing for
exchange) on the basis of the
steady 10 p.c. div. rate.
OIL AND MINING
Timor Oil Limited
'T’imor Oil Limited reports a
A How of an estimated 110
barrels of oil a day at Matai
No. IA well. There is little
gas and no water. Preparations
for testing are proceeding.
The sharemarket reacted
sharply to reports of the oil
flow. The ss. scrip jumped
from about 6s. to almost 12s.
and 63.500 shares changed
hands last Friday. The ss.
ords. then settled down to
about 9s. 6d. a unit.
Combarngo Well
A ssociated Australian Oil-
fields report that the
casing on Combarngo No. 1
well was perforated from
5076 ft to 5084 ft. Production
tests were carried out to assess
the sand, which produced oil,
water and gas in a drill stem
test.
Tests have shown that despite
the presence of oil, commercial
production is not possible
“without employing inducement
techniques, which are not called
for at the present stage of ex-
ploration.”
The production casing is be-
ing plugged to allow recovery,
after which the well will be
plugged Information obtained
will be used to select the site
for the next test well in one of
the nearby structures.
Santos Ltd
CJantos Limited reports that
the second stratigraphic
test on Mornington Island,
drilled in conjunction with
Delhi Australian Petroleum
Ltd, was completed and the
well plugged and abandoned at
3000 ft. The drilling rig and
other equipment will be re-
turned to the mainland.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 651
Across
I—She’s jake! This is what Dame Pattie says to her
nieces. (4, 4,5)
7 Bob's lacking capital mongrel insects who obstruct
enlightenment. (10)
8— Commonsense when we’re dead. (4)
11— Rioting Dane, (anagram) (11)
12 — Thus you can be seen to make
a little money (3)
13— Consumes all of the disorderly
U.S.A. pet. (4, 2)
14 — Spiral wherein he approaches
59. (5)
17 — Arouse from sleep with a
donkey’s call. (5)
18— A fraction figure afflicted by a
nipper. (6)
20 — The king’s Italianised wrath. (3)
21— Flower for Godiva. (5, 4)
23 — Ingenuous North American work
by Kipling. (4)
24 Can love win some medical man
to a town in N.S.W.? (10)
25 — A very brief turn at the
wickets? (6, 7)
Down
1 — East Sydney doctor with very
high spirits is after Bob's capital
kinsman. (5, 8)
2 Helmets which are Roman with-
out interrupting cricket clubs. (8)
3 No single boy is enough lor the
founder of a noted pastoral
company. (12)
4 You managed a shire in
N.S.W. (5)
5 How’s a Manx cat not fol-
lowed? (8)
6 Leave is within them, but it's not
an altogether pleasant atti-
tude. (6)
9—General isn’t mum associated
with a tinkling cymbal? (8, 5)
10 —Caper in holding courtyard
expectancy. (12)
15 — Shade an Australian novelist with
deer. (4, 4)
16 — Way to get one against you and
Bradman didn’t go. (6, 2)
19 —Guilty of some dereliction about
a mademoiselle. (6)
22 —Loincloth is hot in the middle. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 650


FOR SPEED
(First issues off the press)
CONVENIENCE
(Right to your mail-box)
CONTINUITY
(No chance of missing out)
HAVE
DELIVERED BY POST
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
NEW SUB./RENEWAL
(Please cross out one)
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please find enclosed my cheque I money-order for
months’ subscription to The Bulletin.
NAME: ............................................. ...^
ADDRESS: . .................................................
RATES (A/asia): 1 year —£2 125.; \ year—£l 6s.
Post free. British C’wealth: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign:
£3 16s.
N.Z. CURRENCY (Remit to Box 965, Wellington,
N.Z.): A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—
19s. 6d. British C’wealth: £2 3s. Foreign £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether
the subscription is paid direct to The Bulletin
or any newsagent in Australia or N.Z.
TH E BU L LETI N
IS AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
NEWS MAGAZINE-
-52 pages of top-flight information. The press,
the radio, TV, will dish you up the headline
news . . . but The Bulletin has time to bring
you the news inside the news.
AND IT'S PACKED WITH
ENTERTAINMENT
Nearly every facet of modern life is reflected
in The Bulletin’s pages, so no wonder
anyone can find a little of himself—or herself
—in The Bulletin.
