

The Bulletin
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
SOUTH AFRICAN NEWSLETTER
When the Rot Sets In
COMPULSORY UNIONISM
How Far Has It Got ?
POPULATION EXPLOSION
Worse in Our Near North
ALAN REID —As J See It
I*BEMITY“"
>- —


4-PAGE COLOR FEATURE
BEST-DRESSED
ROOMS OF 1962
Eight rooms designed by Sydney decorators to suit eight
well-known personalities. Imagination, color, beautiful
fabrics and furnishings make these rooms outstanding:
★ Sitting-room for Dame Pattie Menzies ★ Bedroom for
Googie Withers Outdoor pavilion for Richie Benaud
& Town sitting-room for Anne Baxter ★ Study for Sir
Garfield Barwick ★ Living-room for Digby Wolfe ★ After-
five room for Judy Barraclough if Breakfast-room for
Gordon Andrews.
WOMENS WEEKLY
Dated July II
Western Australian readers please note: Thi:
issue cf The Australian Women's Weekly wa
on sale last week.
CP 169


RIEN A PERDRE Page 26
Who’s for Dief the Chief?
•
As I See It From Alan Reid 7
Face Value A Look at the Beauty
Business 12
South Africa Land Of Sad
Pretence 16
Norman Tasker Not A Common
Office Boy 18
Mr Downer’s Senoritas 19
‘Trial By Translation 19
A Page Of Harvey 20
Compulsory Unionism How Far
Has It Got? 21
Stravinsky A Word On
Conductors 23
Mali A Snub For Mr K. 27
Laos Situation Normal 28
The Population Explosion Worse
In Our Near North 29
None So Blind 30
Art Dealers’ Fare 33
Henry Mayer On The New
Australia 36
•
NATIONAL NOTEBOOK 4
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
AROUND SYDNEY 11
SOUTH AFRICAN NEWS-
LETTER 16
OUT AND ABOUT 18
OVERSEAS 26
FORUM 29
LETTERS 31
REVIEWS 33
RED PAGE 40
WILD CAT 41
MAN ON THE LAND 60
FEIFFER 63
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY LTD
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George St., Sydney
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521: Phone 27-5971
Melbourne: Phone MF 3341. Brisbane: Phone
B 2691. Adelaide: Phone W 4121-3
Vol. 84
No. 4299
AFTER A MILLION LIVES...?
TT is still too early to predict a real peace in Algeria for already
there are bitter splits in the Army and the provisional government;
threats of war and reprisals. But the worst may be over.
The Algerian referendum has put the formal seal of approval on
the unique pact signed at Evian last March. After seven bloody years of
a full scale war, in which wholesale murder, mass torture, slaughter of
defenceless civilians and horror detention camps, yesterday’s hunted
rebels have become acknowledged leaders of an independent Govern-
ment. Professional insurgents are about to become cabinet ministers and
have offered a working partnership to their most hated foes the O.A.S.
terrorists! Seven years of Algeria’s “dirty war” have claimed one million
lives a staggering proportion of a population of ten million. (Australia’s
war dead in 1939-45 numbered 33,853.)
It is encouraging that the Algerian nationalists, the French Govern-
ment and the O.A.S. die-hards have all come to realise the futility of
continuing the slaughter. The Evian ceasefire agreement has indicated
that both the F.L.N. and President de Gaulle fully realise that Algeria
and France must learn to live and work together. Algeria cannot hope
to become an economically viable nation without massive and continu-
ous French aid. The F.L.N. seems grudgingly to have accepted the fact
that any economic assistance on a scale which France is now expected
to provide will inevitably be accompanied by a considerable degree of
French cultural and political influence. The independence referendum
quite clearly stipulates that Algerian policy will be based on co-oper-
ation with France. The Evian agreement, while scrupulously upholding
Algeria’s ultimate sovereignty, specifically provides a number of vital
safeguards for French economic interests, particularly in the matter of
oil exploration. This gives the French Government and private capital
the necessary security of investment.
Alarmed at the increasing flight of French technicians and the
general exodus of the European population, the F.L.N. leaders have
shown a commendable foresight in coming to terms with the bulk of
the O.A.S. underground organisation. Algeria would come to a standstill
without the indispensable French experts, and training Algerian replace-
ments in sufficient numbers is a long and difficult process. The only
alternative would have been to pay fantastic sums to entice technicians
from other countries, to accept Soviet bloc aid as a matter of course,
and to rely on the UN’s meagre pool of experts in the meantime. 4he
frightful mess which has occurred in the former Belgian Congo is a
good example of what could happen.
France herself can congratulate President de Gaulle on a great
achievement which will immensely boost her strengthening economic
and political influence.
The French President, who had to overcome colossal obstacles in
implementing his Algerian policy and has twice risked open levolt in
the French Army, is now well on the way to turning a sworn enemy into
an influential and strategically important ally on the othei side of the
Mediterranean. Already the French Government has felt it possible to
hand back to Tunisia a part of the Bizerta naval base - only a year ago
the scene of bitter, senseless fighting-


National
Notebook
Instant public relations
those who like public relations
excursions the past few w'eeks have
been excellent. Campbell Soups ran a
special train to Shepparton for the open-
ing of their new' soup factory. There were
four carriages and a buffet car. The
guests w'ere piped aboard by two bag-
pipers and aboard the train guests were
able to sample a splendid variety of Mr
Campbell's soups.
Last week was a little beauty • the
opening of Unilever’s Instant Mashed
Potato factory at Ballarat. There were
400 guests who received a beautiful PR
kit presented in a lovely three-color
folder. The 39 pages of information
told the whole story of instant mashed
potatoes, giving the history of the potato
—its origin, economic, political and gas-
tronomic importance. We even learned
that Prince Albert of Saxe-Coburg,
Prince Consort of Queen Victoria, was
“reported to have liked growing 'taties
in his backyard”. There was a run-
down, too, on the F’otato War 1778-79
and the potato blight.
We learned also, that Australians ate
1141bs of potatoes a head a year, but we
were a devil of a long way behind West
Germans and Belgians who disposed of
3501bs a year. No doubt the Unilever
organisation will remedy this gap.
Nigh on 200 guests left on the special
train for Ballarat at 12.15 pm and as
soon as the w'heels began to roll kindly
stewards began to serve excellent Scotch
to the thirsty mashers. For lunch there
were sandwiches and little pies, with, of
course, dobs of instant mash on top.
The schedule was all instant and timed
to the second. At 2.40 guests arrived at
the plant. For the speeches the plant
manager, Mr Rabbas had one minute,
the Chairman of Unilever Australia, Mr
Barraclough, nine minutes, Mr Hubert
Opperman, 16 minutes, Mr Patterson,
President of Ballarat Shire, five minutes,
Mr Rabbas another five minutes and Mr
Bolte had no time at all. Mr Opperman
said that he, personally, was very fond of
mashed potatoes.
The guests then toured the factory and
returned for a buffet meal of oysters,
chicken a la king, steak and kidney.
Unilever with great tact offered the choice
of instant mash or rice. Most settled for
instant mash. At 6.10 pm the special
train left Ballarat Station for Melbourne
—more little pies with dobs of mash
and unlimited quantities of excellent
Scotch.
And so another instant line was born
to go on the shelves with the instant
coffee, instant tea and instant cake mix.
As one columnist said, he hoped that
when groping in the cupboard one dark
night no sad character ever mixed them
up.
Raising the roof
k s far as Sydney people can see
although the height of the flying-sail
roof of their opera house, still abuilding,
has come down, the price is rising rapidly.
When Danish architect Joern Utzon won
the competition in 1957 the cost was esti-
mated at £3.5 million. Now it is
reportedly something around £l2 million.
The news that the roof-sails will now
be striped in black had a mixed recep-
tion in Sydney. Now it has been announ-
ced that Mr Utzon will next month arrive
with a model showing his latest altera-
tions to the design. Whether these will
be the last is anyone's guess.
Whatever is going right or wrong with
the opera house, the inescapable fact is
that the distance between architect and
client is a problem. It is hard to see why
Mr Utzon, having won the contract for
this prestige building, could not decide
to spend, if not all the year, at least part
of the year here—for his reputation's
sake, if not for Sydney's.
Keeping the flag flying
(Melbourne style)
A x last Melbourne’s “loved, respected,
and honored” Olympic flagpole has
found a resting place. This 76ft 2\ ton
flagpole w'as cut from an ironbark tree.
After the games, everybody was after
it, schools, youth centres, business firms.
Yet the pole that had looked dowm on the
like of John Landy and Vladimir Kuts,
already w'as so historic it had to be dis-
posed of with care. It was quite an
embarrassment to the Government.
For a time it lay out at the Albert
Park Golf Course, then for year after
year it did time at the SEC depot. It was
the job of SEC officials, periodically, to
turn it over to prevent it from warping.
Meanwhile the pole lovers argued. It
was suggested in 1960 that it would look
fine over Parliament House although it
might prove a little dangerous and would
need shaving by 28 feet.
At this stage Mr Stirling, Country
Party, Swan Hill, made one of his most
impassioned speeches. He called it “this
great, beautiful, historic piece of timber
that w'ould be cut, trimmed and mutilated
until it bore no resemblance to the
Olympic pole which once so proudly
carried the Olympic flag over Melbourne.
It would be carved up like a turkey and
used for firewood.” Mr Stirling's speech,
18 months ago, w'as enough to move the
House.
Well, last week the workmen shifted it
from the SEC depot. They gave it a coat
of paint, fixed it with a winch and halyard
and brought it to town. Now in all its
original glory the Olympic flagpole stands
outside the front of Parliament House.
It took the State Government only six
years to get around to it.
Tiger by the tail
T auncestons plan to convert its Punch
Bowl Reserve wasteland into a huge
rhododendron garden has finally proved
more imaginative than those who have
been arguing about it. On one side was
the Rhododendron Trust, set up to plan,
plant and administer the garden; on the
other, the City Council (its motto: Pro-
gress with Prudence; its crest supported
by two Tasmanian tigers rampant). Also
in the ring was a large body of interested
and often embittered citizenry.
The trust, rich in ideas and enthusiasm
to make a showplace of the 50 acres of
vandal-ravaged, fire-scorched bushland,
noted for snakes by day and red tail-
lamps by night, was short of the mach-
inery and organisation to handle the
physical execution of their task. The
council, equipped to do the job, threw
prudence to the tigers and started work.
Hundreds of rhododendrons and other
flowering shrubs were planted last year
with minimum despoliation of the bush.
Now' it has been announced that the
City Council has been negotiating wfith
private interests to set up what it terms a
“wild life sanctuary” in part of the
reserve. The Punch Bowl has been a de-
clared sanctuary for years, but the new
enterprise is a commercial proposition.
The Mayor, Aid. Max Fry, MLC,
was careful to stress that this would not
be a zoo, but the fine distinction was
completely lost on newspaper sub-editors.
Their instinct told them that “zoo” (three
letters) was clearly w'hat W'as meant by
“wild life sanctuary” (17 letters), and
“zoo” it has become in all headlines at
least.
Mayor Fry then recalled that he had
suggested to the Government that it


should offer £SOOO reward for the capture
of a Tasmanian tiger, added that the
experts were convinced that the animal
was not extinct, and trumped it with
the bold idea that a tiger should be
secured as the priceless main exhibit in
the “sanctuary”.
Such a plan to disarm the opposition
deserved a better fate than it got: the
almost immediate response that the Tas-
manian tiger (assuming that it does still
exist) is so totally and absolutely protec-
ted that even to disturb one in its native
haunts would bring down the full weight
of the law —and the public conscience—
on the offender.
Goodbye Mr. Chips?
F. G. (“Sandy”) Phillips who died
at 83 last Friday was an admired,
respected and well-loved headmaster of
Sydney Grammar School where he had
earlier been Master of the Lower School
for many years.
Reporting his death The Sydney
Morning Herald said that “Mr Phillips
became known to many admirers as
Mr Chips.” Well, that may be, but it
would scarcely have pleased him. Pre-
ferring to be known as “Sandy”, or in
traditional Sydneian fashion as “The
Chief”, he had had a lively detestation
of James Hilton’s novel which he re-
garded as a shoddy, sentimental bit of
popular writing about a master whom he
thought completely ersatz. In fact he
disliked the novel so much that when he
was in London, just before the war,
he refused to accompany his wife to the
film version preferring to spend the
afternoon alone at his favorite haunt
—the Tate.
Clear
Tripping into the London “Financial
Times” we came up with this first
sentence to an article by British econo-
mist, Sir Roy Harrod:
“It is rather impressive, anyhow for
the patient student, when the march of
events brings up to the surface, for decis-
ion and action, a dilemma that has long
been inherent in the logic of the situa-
tion.”
Dirt money
nPHE growth of suburban department
A stores has squeezed out many of the
small shopkeepers. One of the first tar-
gets seems to have been the small nursery
or seed-shop, most of which have now
been swallowed up by the big shops. Even
in the city area of Sydney there are now
only one or two independent seed-shops.
The small nurseryman was always pre-
pared to slap down a dozen or so extra
plants with your order, together with free
advice on how to get the best results and
a flea in your ear if you suggested that
you knew how to look after your own
garden.
At a suburban store recently a custom-
er ordered three dozen anenomes and
wandered off to inspect the shrubs. When
he returned to the counter a few minutes
later the assistant with great care was
busy shaking all the soil from the roots
of the plants and carefully counting them
out one by one. He considered that the
customer was buying the plants and was
not entitled to the dirt around them ; nor
was he entitled to one more than 36.
Tanner
"IT MAY BE THE SIGN THAT WON A VICTORY BUT YOU CAN ASK HIM IF HE
WANTS HIS MEDICINE IN HIS COGNAC!"


Th is Australia
THE SP COMMISSION
TWO RIDDLES
FOR GAMBLERS
FROM RICHARD HALL IN SYDNEY
VIfHEN the NSW Royal Commission on
Off-Course Betting rose last week
for the mid-year legal vacation after
three weeks’ progress, there were two
riddles still awaiting answers. The first
was whether the Chairman of the Aust-
ralian Jockey Club, Sir Alan Potter,
would give evidence for the Sydney
racing clubs’ case in favor of an off-
course tote system, and the second was
the whereabouts and nature of the Turf
Commissioners’ Association.
In the second week of sitting the
Commissioner, Mr Justice Kinsella,
asked when and whether Sir Alan would
give evidence, stressing his great ex-
perience as an administrator.
In reply Mr Cassidy, QC, counsel for
both the A.J.C. and S.T.C., was vague,
explaining in general terms that his case
was far from complete and that there
were difficulties in fixing convenient
dates. When Mr Cassidy sat down no-
body at the Commission could be sure
whether Sir Alan would be called. The
vagueness might be said to take on sig-
nificance in view of rumors that Sir
Alan had been in a minority of one on
the AJC committee against a TAB sys-
tem along Victorian lines.
The Turf Commissioners’ Association
had a rather more insubstantial question.
It was Mr Eric Miller, QC, who intro-
duced this body into the proceedings and
JUDGE KINSELLA
“Too much wasted time."
then removed it for the time being at
least. In the second week when the
Commission had already settled down to
a dull routine, Mr Eric Miller, QC, six-
feet plus, one of Sydney’s ranking QC’s
who had been quoted at middling odds
in the field for the last NSW Chief Jus-
tice appointment, made his first appear-
ance and asked permission to represent
certain un-named persons who in the
past had carried on illegal bookmaking
businesses and were members of a body
called the Turf Commissioners’ Associa-
tion. The Commissioner rejected any ap-
plication to appear on behalf of “un-
named persons” and told Mr Miller that
anonymity could not be given to former
SP-bookie witnesses.
However, Mr Justice Kinsella made
it clear that immunity could be guaran-
teed for offences in the past. Mr Miller
retreated presumably to consult his
clients and during the next week at least
one Sydney newspaper carried reports
that SP bookies were to meet and plan
future policy. At the weekend other
newspapers ran reports that a large
number of SP bookies had closed down
operations. An observer might be par-
doned for linking the close-downs with
the stress laid on the words “past” and
“former” at the Commission. The role
of the phantom Turf Commissioners’
Association (which is not registered as
an incorporated body in NSW) in the
close-downs is matter for speculation.
The third week saw an announce-
ment from Mr Miller that he would
appear for one Thomas D’Arcy Comer-
ford, a registered greyhound book-
maker, who “at sometime in the past”
had carried on business as an illegal
bookmaker. No mention was made of
the Association and it was obvious that
Mr Comerford must have been a very
successful operator to afford the ex-
pense of Mr Miller, his junior and
solicitors’ costs.
It may merely have been some co-
incidental slips of the tongue by Mr
Miller (he once referred to “my clients”)
that sent counsel assisting the Commis-
sion, Mr Meares, QC, and Mr Cassidy,
on a determined fishing expedition oh
the last sitting day before the vacation.
Mr Meares challenged the right of
Mr Miller, appearing only for an indi-
vidual, to cross-examine to the same
extent as counsel appearing for organisa-
tions. But after argument Mr Miller got
his way. A side-challenge in a question
from Mr Cassidy, on just who Mr
Miller’s client was, brought a bland
answer from Mr Miller that Mr Cassidy
should know, because he had once ap-
peared for Mr Comerford after premises
had been declared.
The first weeks of the Commission
had been relatively dull by the standards
of the last great NSW Royal Commis-
sion torching on illegal operations the
Liquor Royal Commission. That was a
heady affair with allegation of free
chicken sandwiches for policemen, cor-
ruption, etc. The first mention of cor-
ruption from a witness in the first week
of the Commission led to a statement
from counsel assisting the Commission,
Mr Meares, QC, that such a matter was
not in the terms of reference. To date
none of the other counsel has chal-
lenged that.
r|%E issues were muted at first but
A emerged on two levels as the Com-
mission progressed. First there was the
Council of Churches of NSW, repre-
sented by Mr Norman Jenkyn, QC,
versus The Rest, with the Council in
flat opposition to any legalisation. Then
there was the struggle of The Bookies
versus The Tote, at first two-sided, then
three-sided. Mr Cassidy, on behalf of
the Sydney racing clubs, led the case
for the Tote along the same lines as the
drab, dull Victorian TAB. Against him
were Mr Cantor, for the Licensed book-
makers, who favor a telephone credit
betting system and then lately Mr
Miller, who wants telephone credit and
betting shops (he tried hard to avoid
that tag, but failed).
At the end of the third week the
legal battle to dominate the Commission
looked like being the clash between Mr
Cassidy and Mr Miller. Mr Cassidy, a
quick impatient little man, who wears
the QC’s morning suit uniform, sniped
with interjections throughout the third
week against Mr Miller, probably a foot
taller than him, and who so scorns
sartorial conventions as to wear a cardi-
gan with his suit. At the end of the
week Mr Miller, with his telling score
on Mr Comerford, was probably ahead
on points.
The other battle, Mr Jenkyn versus
The Rest, had sharp moments. Mr Jen-
NEXT WEEK'S ISSUE
A INSIDE TOORAK — Cover
f
Story.
© CHURCHILL — A Current Por-
trait.
© ASIA — The Empty Continent.
© THE SECULAR EDUCATION
ROW.
© AS I SEE IT — Alan Reid.


kyn, a hard-featured man, favoring the
QC’s uniform, has learnt much of his
in-fighting capability in the politics of
the Sydney Church of England synod.
He usually does insurance company
damages defence work and this experi-
ence proved a block when he wasted
much of his time cross-examining so as
to go to the credit of technical witnesses.
Acting as a sort of referee was the
counsel assisting the Commission, Mr
Meares, a relatively quiet, dry counsel,
who found himself complaining, with
a faint grimace and a gathering frown,
more often as the Commission wore on,
at the cross-examination dead-ends of
other counsel.
All in all it was not surprising that
the last words of the Commissioner be-
fore he rose were a warning that if
counsel continued to waste time they
endangered their right to appear.
LOAN COUNCIL REVOLUTION
FROM ALAN REID IN CANBERRA
As I see it
' A lmost un-
im-
portant chan-
ges have taken place in the loan council
setup. Once the States used to insist that
after loan and other moneys were split
up, the Commonwealth could have no
say in the type of works on which the
moneys were to be spent.
The Commonwealth never liked that
setup. It believed that works of a national
character within State boundaries were
often let go by default because of politi-
cal pressures to which State Governments
were peculiarly susceptible. They had to
cater for their high population areas often
at the expense of needed development in
their less populated areas. Over the years
there were suggestions that the Common-
wealth should be given a say in the spend-
ing of State loan moneys, but the States
insisted that they were the ones best
fitted to judge what were the needs of
their States.
Nor were any of the States prepared
to forgo any of the moneys they might
otherwise receive for the development or
assistance of their weaker sisters.
The December 1961 elections changed
that. It was in Queensland, where unem-
ployment was most widespread and the
resentment against the lack of develop-
ment that produced that unemployment
strongest, that the Menzies Federal Gov-
ernment got its harshest setback. As a
result the Menzies Government took
steps that have and are altering the
loan council setup significantly.
In February the Menzies Government
after a loan council meeting announced
the provision of a special non-repayable
grant of £10,000,000. The £10,000,000
was earmarked for “employment giving”
activities and absolutely no regard was
paid to the traditional formulas on which
the States had previously split up
moneys. Queensland received £3,340,000
compared with NSW’s £2,240,000 and
Victoria’s £1,800,000.
Now what started as a political action
to take electoral pressure from the then
hard-pressed Menzies Government looks
as though it could emerge as a regular
pattern. Not only did the Commonwealth
last week distribute another £12,500,000
in special non-repayable grants again
giving Queensland the lion’s share but it
also listed £24,000,000 it was spending on
special projects.
Of this £24,000,000 £15,900,000 is
being spent in the outlying States.
Queensland is to get £9,200,000 and
Western Australia £6,700,000. NSW is
to get only £3,600,000 and Victoria
£2,200,000.
In other words the Commonwealth has
done two things: It has taken over the
responsibility for deciding which States
need special aid for meeting special diffi-
culties such as a bad employment posi-
tion. It has taken over the responsibility
for deciding what works and types of
works are necessary in the national
interest for the development of the north
not only in its own Northern Territory
but also in Queensland and Western Aus-
tralia.
The Queensland money includes
amounts for the building of the Mount
Isa railway, improving ports to help its
beef and export trade, and better roads
to permit quicker, more economic stock
movement. The Western Australian
money includes amounts for the standard-
isation of the railway line from Kalgooriie
to Perth and development projects in the
north.
Altogether the Commonwealth is
having £32,500,000 worth of say where
previously it had no say at all. Even
NSW, most powerful of the States, has
to meet Commonwealth expectations in
this field which is additional to the nor-
mal amounts it receives over which the
Commonwealth has no control. The
NSW money has to be spent in de-
veloping coal ports again in the national
rather than the State interest of improv-
ing exports.
The move has cost the Commonwealth
money. There is no obligation upon the
States to repay these special grants as
there is in the case of ordinary loan
money. The Commonwealth carries the
baby. But it does give the Commonwealth
an overall supervision of special works of
a national character.
It also provides it with an opportunity
to give special States special aid when
they need such aid instead of as in the
past having to divide any cake that was
available on traditional lines. At this loan
council meeting the Commonwealth dis-
tributed £36,500,000 for the States to
spend but on a basis that £12,500,000 had
to be spent on employment giving activi-
ties and the remainder on projects endor-
sed by the Commonwealth.
Despite the cries that will inevitably
come from the larger States when they
realise how the Commonwealth has
strengthened its hold on the economy
with this innovation, the move is probably
nationally in the best interests of Aus-
tralia. It ensures a flexibility in the dis-
tribution of money where flexibility did
not exist before and enables a State’s
particular problems such as Queensland’s
unemployment to be recognised along
with the needs of the more remote areas
for faster, greater development.
ABORIGINES
"A LAUGH”
FROM KEITH WILLEY IN DARWIN
npHE granting of full Federal voting
rights to all adult aborigines was
“really a bit of a laugh”, Mr Davis
Daniels said the other day. Mr Daniels
is a full-blood aborigine, a citizen, and
the increasingly-vocal secretary of the
Northern Territory Council for Abori-
ginal Rights.
Commenting on the Bill passed by the
House of Representatives earlier this year
to give all full-blood aborigines the vote,
he said: “The right to vote doesn’t really
mean much without other rights. What
we need is the right to equal education,
equality in wages, the right to travel
where we want to, like anybody else, and
the right to own land.”
Mr Daniels then resurrected an old
grievance. He and others of the small
band of aborigines who have been
granted citizenship have “full rights” in
the Northern Territory. But he loses
them if he crosses the border to South
Australia, West Australia, or Queens-
land, where other laws prevail. “This
makes my so-called citizenship mean-
ingless,” he said. “I suspect that a right
to vote, when we are second-class citizens
treated differently from others, is also
meaningless.”
However, he added: “I don’t think
many aborigines know anything about
Federal politics —or any politics —at
this stage.” *


TOBACCO
THE DEATH RATTLE
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
stood around and glumly
watched the death rattles of an
industry as this year’s WA tobacco crop
was virtually ignored by buyers at the
annual South Fremantle sales.
A considerably reduced offering of
1200 bales was put up, and less than
three per cent, sold in the biggest fiasco
in the industry’s history. Even the prices
paid for the tobacco sold would not cover
growers’ operating costs, and the later
private sale of about 30 per cent, of the
offering could only reduce losses a little.
The industry’s incurable disease was
diagnosed by the experts years ago, but
their negative prognosis was ignored by
the patient. The WA industry employed
about 250 growers around the south-west
town of Manjimup and was one of the
oldest in the Commonwealth, with sales
dating from before World War 11. It
has traditionally suffered an inherent
disability in a high chlorine content and
low nicotine content, but while Austra-
lian manufacturers imported a large per-
centage of their requirements it was
useful for blending and buyers usually
bid more than IOOd. a lb. for it. As the
percentage of Australian tobacco in local
cigarettes increased and more Eastern
States areas came into production, the
WA leaf became less desirable. Prices
started slipping in 1959, fell further in
1960 and plummeted to what growers
thought was rock bottom last year. Then,
more than half the crop was passed in at
prices about 50 per cent, below 1959.
The State Government, in an honest
but futile endeavour to keep the industry
alive, subsidised production on 300 acres
at up to £lOO an acre for this year’s
crop. That this subsidy was almost com-
pletely wasted was clearly demonstrated
this week as those growers who received
the subsidy only landed themselves in
more debt, with the overall return from
the tobacco sold not even covering their
costs.
There is no longer any question of the
industry continuing. The only hope now
is that growers can find alternatives to
keep them solvent. The most obvious is
vegetable production, for which the dis-
trict is well suited. Some former tobacco
growers have gone in for tomato growing,
with good yields and good prices. The
difficulty is that if all growers switch to
vegetables they will probably glut local
markets. Most of the 200-odd growers
who refrained from planting tobacco
took casual work and left their farms un-
productive in the hope that prices would
improve and they could resume produc-
tion.
As even this hope faded, they looked
around and found glum alternatives
indeed. The timber industry, biggest
employer in the district, is also in trouble.
Hawker Siddeley have closed down one
shift at the big Pemberton Mill, because
of the slow sales of karri. The Quin-
ninup Mill, burnt down last January, has
still not been rebuilt. As the mostly
migrant growers came home from the
sales this week, they faced a grim future.
THE SUEZ CAMPAIGN
ti>£uUetCa
July 8, 1882
HPhe expressed intention of the
Cabinet of Mr Gladstone to
undertake an invasion of Egypt with
an army of 20,000 men, and
“protect” the Suez Canal, reads very
queerly when perused by the light of
history. Sir Evelyn Wood is to com-
mand the expedition. The list of other
possible leaders is not great. Field-
Marshal H.R.H. the Prince of Wales,
conqueror of so many professional
beauties, is no doubt as able a leader
as his brother-in-law, the Crown
Prince of Prussia; but when one con-
siders how many drawing-rooms
would be desolate were he to take the
field, it was certain that H.R.H. would
remain to defend Hyde Park.
Evelyn Wood has simply never
commanded an army before. 20,000
men, thus led, are to invade Egypt;
and of those 20,000, probably not
5000 have ever faced an enemy in the
field. Just eighty-four years ago, the
French Directory undertook the same
enterprise. To accomplish it, they
despatched just double the number of
men. The army which landed near
Alexandria comprised 40,000 men.
These 40,000 were the victors of
eighteen pitched battles, participants
in sixty-seven engagements, and cap-
tors of 150,000 prisoners, of 166
standards, 550 pieces of siege artillery,
and 600 pieces of field artillery. In
short, troops accustomed to victory
over the best generals and finest armies
of one of the most formidable powers
in Europe, namely Austria. And the
man who had led them in Italy was
chosen to lead them in Egypt. Napo-
leon Bonaparte!
As lieutenants, Bonaparte had
under him half-a-dozen generals,
already famous throughout Europe:
Lannes, Kleber, Desaix, Murat,
Regnier, Menou. They were similar
soldiers, the same commander, and
the same lieutenants —except Kleber,
doomed to sink under the assassin’s
steel —that, later, conquered every
army they faced in Europe. In Egypt,
they—failed!
BEER
CANNONADE
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
¥>roudly, back on January 7, 1958,
Victoria was the first Siate to pro-
duce the beer can. Immediately several
advantages could be seen. It was the
same size as the tomato juice can, so
this relieved great embarrassment in the
lunch box at the office. One merely had
to transpose the labels. Office managers
prefer to believe that the Staff is drinking
health-giving tomato juice at lunch time.
Then there was the feeling that never
would the cans cause permanent devasta-
tion to the beaches and camping grounds
for, after all, in 10 years’ time they
would rot away to nothing. Yet the
greatest advantages was quickly to be
seen at the sporting grounds No longer
was there any need to worry about tire-
some hygiene, about barmaids, about
glasses oi the washing of glasses. Here
was the fastest system for pumping out
beer to the masses yet devised.
Two holes in the top of the can and
you were in business. Then there was
the ease of transport. The cans came
in handy cartons, two dozen to a carton,
complete with can opener. Furthermore
they were an improvement over the
bottle in this respect, the can when
emptied was an extremely poor missile.
It was too light to be thrown with any
accuracy, and even at the most closely
fought of football matches no fan ever
became so enraged that he was prepared
to sacrifice a full can.
The glorious peak came on February
11, 1961. This was the day of the world-
record cricket crowd at the MCG when
90,800 people came to see the West
Indians. Next day the cleaners had to
pick up 180,000 cans, or nearly two cans
for every man, woman and child who
was at the ground.
At the MCG the concrete tiers shelve
all the way down to the fence. So when
there’s a hush, as a fast bowler is moving
in, or a forward is preparing to shoot


for goal, it is fascinating to hear the
steady rattling of cans rolling down the
incline. We call it the cannonade.
The ratio of nearly two cans to a
spectator has continued at football
grounds all this season. One lady at
South Melbourne was reported as saying,
after she had been pushed in the back
by three youths, “in the old days hot
tomato soup and tea in a flask was
considered the thing for the football.
Now it’s all beer and get skittled”. One
wonders if the North Melbourne team is
altogether sensible in using the title the
Kan-Garoos.
Last week the Government took action.
The Chief Secretary, Mr Rylah, recom-
mended a ban on the sale of all liquor
in cans and bottles at League football
grounds. He recommended that the beer
be sold only in glasses at properly-
equipped booths on the grounds. There
was the hint, too, that if the grounds
managements did not clean up the pro-
blem then the Government would do it
for them. What difference this will make
remains to be seen. Which is more
important to Victorians, beer or football?
But whatever happens they will still be
able to bring their own supplies into the
grounds. Under Rylah’s ruling, the
grounds managements will be asked not
to sell the cans.
Seeing that canned beer is now being
produced in Brisbane, Sydney, Adelaide
and Perth it is important to relate our
original experiences to points north,
south, east and west. It looks very much
as if Sydney is desperate to get into the
act. After all, Tooheys have stolen a
march on Carlton & United Breweries.
They have had the wit to put an actual
color picture of the Sydney Cricket
Ground on their can.
POLITICS
THE BROADMEADOWS CAMPAIGN
BY A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
HThe Victorian ALP will be flat out to
A win the by-election for the Broad-
meadows State seat on August 4, if only
to dispel the idea that its present policies
have put it well out of touch with elec-
tors. The by-election results from the
death of the sitting LCP member, Mr
H. E. Kane, and will have a field of at
least five, possibly six.
Broadmeadows, an area of 1500
square miles, is regarded as something of
an ultra-marginal constituency. It is one
of those outer Melbourne areas of new
home formation which have done so
much to upset traditional voting patterns.
It includes both rural and industrial areas,
the main centres being Fawkner, Gis-
borne, Glenroy, Kilmore, Lancefield, Sun-
bury, Whittlesea and Woodend. A large
employer in the area is the Ford Motor
company.
Like similar outer Melbourne elector-
ates, it is undergoing fast population
growth, some of it due to New Austra-
lians settling there. In last year’s State
election, there were 12,423 more on the
rolls than at the 1958 election. Numeri-
cally, it is the second biggest electorate in
Victoria.
Labor says it has a good chance of
getting the 3.03 per cent, swing it needs
to take the seat. The ALP executive has
put Assistant Secretary George Poyser on
to full-time organising in the electorate
and intends to use Messrs. Calwell, Whit-
lam and Stoneham in its campaign. Its
candidate is Mr J. T. Wilton, 38, a carrier
who is active in local ALP affairs. He is
a former campaign secretary for Mr Reg.
Pollard whose Federal seat of Lalor
includes Broadmeadows.
The LCP and the DLP have also
chosen local men as candidates. The
Liberal is Mr F. H. D. Robinson, 46,
who operates a metallurgical business in
Richmond and a farm at Wallan. The
DLP picked Mr J. A. Donnellon, 50,
a purchasing officer at Fords and a mem-
ber of the Federated Clerks Union who
has twice before carried the DLP banner
in Broadmeadows elections. Both Robin-
son and Donnellon have teen active in
their parties’ affairs in the areas.
The swing of 3.03 per cent, needed
by the ALF looks little enough, but last
year it failed to take the seat when it only
needed a swing of a tenth that size. The
late Mr Kane only won by 432 votes in
1958 after distribution of DLP prefer-
ences. In 1961 his margin rose to 2414
after 7104 DLP preferences were distri-
buted, over 90 per cent, of which
favored him.
It is in fact an area where the DLP
polls well and with little drift in its pre-
ferences away from the ticket. Last year
on the primary count, the ALP received
44.4 per cent, of votes, the LCP 34.3 per
cent, and the DLP 19 per cent. The
balance went to the egregious Mr Van de
Loo of the Progressive United Labor
Party. It is not yet known whether Mr
Van de Loo will run again, but there are
at least two other off-beat candidates
standing. One is Mr John Phillips, 49,
the Australian Republican Party. His
nomination is a reminder that one need
not live in Victoria to enter its Parlia-
ment. Mr Phillips is a grocer living at
Heathcote (NSW). Two years ago he ran
for the Federal seat of Calare (NSW) in
a by-election, polling 113 votes.
Another candidate is Mr Stirling Davis,
52, salesman, who is running as an Inde-
pendent Labor candidate. Mr Davis has a
grudge against the Victorian ALP execu-
tive on the score of preselection ballots
and ran in the Richmond by-election last
May. It opens up a vista of Mr Davis
contesting all future by-elections in
Victoria.
Unless the DTP falls to pieces, the LCP
candidate seems reasonably certain of
winning the seat.
TRADE
WHEAT FOR
CHINA?
Australian Wheat Board Chairman
Sir John Teasdale, who died this
week aged 81, made no secret of his
opposition to the Board’s ventures in
giving credit to the Red Chinese.
It was this issue which caused the
late Sir John, despite his advanced years,
to remain Board chairman up to the
time of his death.
A battler from the beginning, young
John Teasdale shared a tent with his
four brothers after his arrival from the
north of England in 1911.
John Teasdale formed a local co-
operative of farmers and later moved
in to bigger things when he helped
form the famous Westralian Farmers’
Co-op. Ltd which now has a turnover
of more than £3om. per annum.
He helped organise the wheat pools
in the First World War and as well as
being prominent in farmers’ organisa-
tions, took a hand in launching the WA
Country Party.
He was well aware that his resigna-
tion as chairman would most likely
result in the job passing to Mr T. C.
Stott, Speaker of the South Australian
Parliament, and a well-known enthusiast
for credit sales with the Chinese.
Mr Stott is secretary of the SA
Wheat and Woolgrowers’ Association
and as recently as last week was seen
in action on behalf of the “Trade With
China” lobby.
The occasion was the half-yearly
meeting of the National Farmers’ Union
in Melbourne and the issue, oddly, was
a proposal from the RSL seeking joint
approach to the Federal Government for
publication of a white paper on Com-
munism.
What was most interesting in the
discussion was the way in which
speakers, including Mr Stott, used wheat
sales to China to justify a soft attitude
to local Communists.


IRON ORE DAVE
FROM A DERBY CORRESPONDENT
DAVID BRAND
Courting the Japs
¥JE7a Premier David Brand may be
" remembered by posterity as Iron
Ore Dave. The signs of a courtship
between his Government, the potential
developers of WA’s vast North-West
iron ore deposits and the operators of
Japan’s major steel mills have been
gathering for some time, but they really
came to light last week when a four-man
mission from the top Japanese mills of
Fuji, Nippon Kogi, Yawata and Kawa-
saki arrived in WA to look over the
new North-West deposits in the Pilbara
and the Kimberleys
When a mission was in WA last year
they were shown only the comparatively
small deposits of Tallering Peak and Mt
Goldsworthy and went away politely
sceptical. This time they are being
ushered over some of the world’s biggest
deposits, estimated by the Bureau of
Mineral Resources to be four or five
times the present known Australian re-
serves of 368,000,000 tons.
On his arrival in Perth, mission leader
M. Kagawa said WA could be selling
45,000,000 tons or iron ore a year to
Japan by 1970. Present imports were
about 20,000,000 tons, coming mainly
from India, Malaya and the Philippines.
If prospects in the North-West were
satisfactory, initial capital outlay would
range from £24,000,000 to £40,000,000.
The possibility of making long-term
contracts with Japanese mills should be
known within 12 months.
Backgrounding the mission’s obvious
interest in the WA deposits is the un-
favorable political situation in Goa,
previously a big exporter to Japan, and
doubts about the long-term prospects of
the Malayan and Philippines deposits.
The proving of the deposits at the level
indicated by the Bureau of Mineral
Resources would open the way for one
of the biggest export deals in Australian
history. Again, if the deposits are as big
as indicated export contracts to Japan
could provide a solid base for the
development of a second iron and steel
industry in WA.
The recent merger of the mining
giants, Rio Tinto and Consolidated Zinc
Corporation, is another indication that
,— T , , . . .
the North-West deposits are being re-
garded ve r y seriously indeed With
North-West prospectors Lang Haueoclt
and E. A. Wright. R,o Tmto have tern-
porary reserves to prospect for iron ore
over a large part of the Pilbara deposits.
Rio Tinto Consolidated Zinc and the
Western Mining Corporation were joint
hosts to the Japanese mission.
An attempt by Opposition Leader
Calwell to make political capital out of
the Pilbara deposits fizzed badly. In
Perth for the ALP and trade union
congress, Mr Calwell said the handing
over of the Pilbara deposits to an over-
seas combine was the most blatant sell-
out in Australia’s history. Apparently
neither the State nor Federal governments
intended to contribute to the basic
development work involved in opening
up the deposits. Premier Brand came
back strongly at Mr Calwell, claiming
the state had taken positive action to
convert raw material into industry
where it was most needed. Millions of
pounds would have to be spent before
any ore could be shipped out of the
Pilbara and Vv'A simply could not find
such money. Mr Calwell apparently
believed it should come from the Federal
Treasury. If he were prepared to find
that kind of money for iron ore he
would presumably also be prepared to
find it for oil and other mining develop-
ment. Even Mr Calwell would have dif-
ficulty getting all this money by loans
or taxes.
On current indications, it looks as if
WA and the big mining companies will
have little alternative but to court the
Japanese as a basic buyer of iron ore.
REPORT ON QUEENSLAND COMMUNISTS
FROM JOHN HIGGINS
(The second of two articles)
the subject of finance, the State
of the Queensland Com-
munist Party estimated in 1957 it needed
£950 a month to function properly.
Of this amount, 7/11 in the £ is turned
over to the Central Committee. Fees
payable by Party members in recent
years have been 4/4 monthly for all
members earning more than £5 a week;
and 1/1 monthly for members earning
less than this amount.
Apart from these nominal monthly
dues, however, members are expected to
make regular donations, and to solicit
sympathisers for financial support. They
have to pay specific levies and appeals
imposed to finance special campaigns or
repay debts, etc. Often the appeals take
the form of pledges by members which
are paid off on the instalment system.
Finance quotas allotted to Branches have
nothing to do with membership. Small
branches with a reputation for raising
money, for instance, invariably get higher
quotas than branches which may be well
above them numerically.
Sweeps and raffles are regarded as
plums reserved for the higher formations
in order to prevent “undue tapping” of a
field not normally accessible to the
Party. Most of its publications run at a
loss.
Direct propaganda in Queensland is
carried out through such official Party
organisations as “The Guardian” and
the “Tribune”; pamphlets and literature
prepared by formations from Branch to
State Committee levels; and by selected
speakers at street and job meetings.
Trade union support is obtained through
pressure exercised by the various union
fractions, and propaganda is also dis-
seminated through its various front
organisations. The Party has at its dis-
posal in Queensland the full printing
facilities of the Coronation Printery at
Morningside, which is capable of pro-
ducing full size newspapers, books and
magazines. It also has its own roneoing
equipment.
Communist Party front organisations
in Queensland, whether their members
all know it or not and whether they like
it or not, include the Union of Australian
Women, Realist Writers, New Theatre,
Peace Committee, Eureka Youth League,
Australian - Soviet Friendship Society,
Australia-China Society and Queensland
Film Society. The Association of Aus-
tralian Dancers was also in orbit, but
now appears to be defunct.
The Queensland Trades and Labor
Council in some respects is an outright
Communist Party industrial instrument.
It provides salaries and finance for
officials who are in actual fact Com-
munist Party functionaries; it provides
a degree of immunity from attack for
Communist Party policy implemented
under the guise of trades unionism; and


the Trades Hall itself provides the venue
for Party conferences and meetings
sponsored by the Party for which venue
has been denied by civic authorities. A
somewhat similar set-up exists in most
of the provincial Trades and Labor
Councils throughout the State.
Other spheres of influence in which
the Party is active include Progress
Associations, including the Grand
Council of Progress Associations; Kin-
dergarten Committees and School Com-
mittees. The Party, incidentally, has
been unable to gain a toe-hold, despite
strenuous attempts, in the Boy Scouts,
sporting organisations, the Education
Department, and the RSSAILA and
has recently been “turned out” of the
Queensland Legion of Ex-Servicemen
and Women.
Trades unions in Queensland con-
trolled or greatly influenced by the Com-
munist Party include the Building
Workers’ Industrial Union, of which the
secretary and four out of five organisers
are Communist Party members; Painters,
Moulders, Boilermakers, the AMIEU,
Postal Workers, and the Colliery
Employees.
The Party’s traditional mania for
secrecy and security is a limiting factor
in its growth. New members are closely
checked by the Disputes Committee, and
there is a general air of distrust which
must impair efficiency. Phones are
never used for the transmission of
important information in the firm belief
that the Party’s lines are always tapped;
and the “safe hand” of a trusted mes-
senger is preferred to Her Majesty’s
mails.
There are approximately 14 paid
functionaries of the Party in Queensland,
including a full-time Central Committee
organiser and a Townsville District
Committee organiser. Their Party’s
intentions in Queensland were clearly
defined by Mr J. B. Henderson at the
conclusion of the Brisbane District Con-
ference back on 26th August, 1956, and
they of course still stand: “More
infiltration should be made by Party
members of Progress Associations,
School Committees and other organisa-
tions to gain control. Also control should
be gained of Shop Committees and
Unions in the various industries, and
every endeavour made to educate other
workers to Party ideas and thereby gain
recruits. Party members should take
advantage of every disturbance and use
such to best advantage. They should be
able to develop an ability to sum up
a situation and act upon it independently,
or, if possible, create these situations and
then work in the background.”
(The first of these two articles appear-
ed in The Bulletin, May 26, 1962.)
Around Sydney
A ROW AT THE OPERA HOUSE
r ast week for the first time many
people came to the horrified con-
clusion that we in Sydney have an
Establishment as staunch and stub-
born as the Adelaide mob we so often
scoff at.
The unmasking of this hidden
power was carried out virtually single-
handed by an unknown Englishman,
Mr Martin Carr, Stage Director of
the Royal Ballet Company, Covent
Garden, who is in Australia on loan
for the Elizabethan’s opera season.
Mr. Carr's way of showing us just
how strongly we are dominated has
been to attack that most sacred of
all cows of the Sydney Establishment,
the Opera House.
Since 1957, when Danish architect
Joern Utzon won the £5OOO first
prize for a design of an opera house
to grace a magnificent site on Sydney
Harbor, the rising structure has almost
replaced the Bridge as Sydney’s great-
est boast.
The promotion was a real Establish-
ment effort: the idea was pushed by
Sydney Symphony conductor the late
Sir Eugene Goossens; it received the
enthusiastic backing of the Conserva-
torium’s Sir Bernard Heinze and the
ABC's Sir Charles Moses. The then
Labor Premier Joe Cahill not only
supported the scheme, but he ordered
his former secretary Charles Tallan-
tyre, now Director of State Lotteries,
to run regular lotteries to finance the
project.
Labor Lord Mayor Harry Jensen
threw in his publicity knack for the
Opera House right alongside top
socialite Mrs Nola Dekyvere, who
organised all sorts of society do’s to
raise cash. The newspapers came in
with unanimous support.
Not one word of criticism ever
leaked into the public ear. When
the completion date was pushed back
from 1962 to 1963 to 1964 then 1965,
no one muttered any protest. When
the estimated cost leapt from
£3,500,000 to £4,800,000 and more
lately to an unestimable figure (some-
times said to be near £lO million!),
only the worst spoil sports had any
misgivings. Just run another few lot-
teries.
There were rumors of doubts
among ABC experts on the likely
acoustics of the building. But not
a word came into the open. When
a top English journal, “The Builder”,
made other criticisms of Mr Utzon’s
plans one Sydney paper canned the
story as being bad for our morale.
This was an Establishment at work
if ever there was one. The attitude
was: this building is good; if it has
major defects, then too bad; we have
decided, no one must dispute.
Then one Saturday recently one of
the newspapers sent ? reporter and
photographer out to a flat at Edge-
cliff to get a story about the small
baby which the Australian opera star
Una Hale is carting around Australia
on her Elizabethan tour. The reporter
got talking to Miss Hale’s husband—
Mr Martin Carr —and the next morn-
ing the bombshell dropped.
Mr Carr declared that the Sydney
Opera House would not be big enough
to stage any large-scale opera properly.
He said the building had no provision
for storing scenery, the stage would
not be deep enough and the dressing
rooms would be badly located. “The
people of Australia are getting a raw
deal,” Mr Carr added.
HPhe Establishment reacted predic-
tably. Sir Charles Moses immediately
said the criticism was “absurd” and
the chairman of the Opera House
executive committee, Mr Stan Havi-
land (a co-opted public servant) de-
scribed the attack as “sheer nonsense”.
Mr Haviland invited Mr Carr to
inspect the latest plans for the pro-
ject—then admitted that he couldn’t
quite put his hands on these plans.
“There is such a multitude of plans,”
Mr Haviland weakly explained.
Premier Heffron didn’t help very much
when he defended the Opera House
by citing its seating capacity—a ques-
tion never raised by the critic!
(Though later someone found that
even this aspect fell short of the
original specifications.)
The public was getting rather con-
fused —and not a little dismayed.
Then last week came the final blow:
the story leaked out that the plans
had been changed again, this time
radically altering that sleek sail-like
roof that had looked so appealing.
The “sails” were to be made plump
and their whiteness marred with black
stripes of tiles.
There’s no doubt Sydney’s Opera
House will be built, and it will prob-
ably be a pretty good job. But at this
rate Sydney people are likely to re-
vert to the Bridge or the new AMP
skyscraper when they want to impress
visitors.
BLIGH


FACE VALUE
The Beauty Business—money in
jars of Dead Enthusiasm
By PATRICIA ROLFE
The cosmetics demonstrator stood
behind the counter, fingering the
elegant bottles and jars. Her voice
flowed like rich, emollient cream. “Let
us not call it an ageing skin,” she intoned,
reading between the lines on the cus-
tomer’s face. “Let us call it a mature
skin. Some skins need greasing, but let
us not say greasing. It’s not a very nice
word. Let us say lubricating.” She moved
to the next customer. “The young per-
son's problem is the troubled skin. We
don’t call this acne. We call it a troubled
skin. When a baby is troubled the only
way it can let you know is by crying.
When a skin is troubled the only way it
can let you know is by coming out in
little spots. Some women have what we
call a dirty skin. Of course, that does
not mean that she doesn’t wash. Let us
call it a difficult skin, and I would sug-
gest our—”
In the midst of all this enchanting
double-ralk it might seem that to try to
find out anything of consequence about
the cosmetics industry might be like try-
ing to run through a giant vat of cold
cream. However, the Australian cos-
metics industry is a w'ell-organised and
rapidly growing one. as well as, re-
putedly, a highly profitable one.
The most interesting and enviable
thing about the cosmetics industry is that
it is virtually recession-proof. This has
been shown each time there has been
even a mild decline in the economy in
the postwar period in the United States.
Total sales of perfumes, cosmetics and
toilet preparations for the year 1960 were
1.784,000,000 dollars, an increase of
about seven per cent, over the previous
record set in 1959. This was, according
to a spokesman for the industry in the
United States, in spite of the fact that
business was in “a somewhat depressed
condition.”
Executives in the Australian industry
believe that the credit squeeze made
little difference to their sales figures. In
fact, when times are bad women tend
to buy more cosmetics, or, at least, keep
up their buying, perhaps to face the
ordeal of job-seeking, or as a substitute
for new clothes. It was during the de-
pression of the 1930 that cosmetics
really were established as a universal
habit in most Western countries.
When import licences were lifted in
Australia in 1960 the local industry did
not suffer to any great extent. Some
American - made cosmetic lines came
here, but the local industry found that
whereas there may not be great brand-
loyaltv among its customers, at least the
customers are loyal to the names they
know.
What is the industry worth? The dif-
ficulty, of course, is to decide where the
industry begins and ends. A few years
ago the Commonwealth Statistician and
the Toilet Preparations’ Association put
their heads together and worked out
classifications which satisfied the soul of
the statistician, but at the same time
took some account of the fact that cos-
metics makers tend to believe that their
preparations, with secret ingredients,
magic formulas and so on. are unique.
Toilet preparations, including hair prep-
arations. and give or take a few mar-
ginal items, are on the Statistician’s
figures worth about £13,000,000, ex
factory, annually, and the industry’s
annual gross, according to figures
worked out by someone in the industry,
may be around £30.000,000.
None of the major Australian cos-
metic houses is a public company, and
so none is under any obligation to tell
anyone much of its business. How'ever,
the people in the industry are not unduly
secretive, although competition between
makers is very keen. Firms here are per-
fectly willing to show people over their
factories, and some, in fact, regularly
organise tours of their factories for
women’s groups. The group may make a
charge and the proceeds will go to
charity, but from the company’s view-
point it is just a public relations job.
Most of the companies here are wholly
foreign-ow'ned private companies and
most are subsidiaries of American com-
panies. None of the “name” cosmetics
firms are listed on the Stock Exchanges
here, although, of course, some public
companies make products which come
into the wider classification, toilet prep-
arations.
Most of them have fairly involved
histories. Coty, for example, is now listed
on the New York Stock Exchange. It
was founded at the turn of the century
by Francois Coty, who went into part-
nership with Lalique, the French glass-
makers, and began putting perfume into
pretty bottles instead of the medicine
bottles used previously. The main share-
holder now is Coty’s widow, Madame
Yvonne Cotnareanu, now married to the
owner of “Le Figaro” newspaper, but
the headquarters are in New York, and
Australia, for currency reasons, comes
under the control of the London office.
Perhaps the most fantastic financial
story of all is Elizabeth Arden. Miss
Arden still owns her company through-
out the world down to the last pot of
face cream. An executive with the Syd-
ney office mentioned that before the
war Lever Brothers offered Miss Arden
25 million dollars for her business. She,
apparently, just gave a tinkling laugh
and said: “What nonsense! She was
worth three times that!” What she is
worth today only Miss Arden know's, but
she is believed to gross more than 15
million dollars a year.
The oldest cosmetics name in Aus-
tralia is, of course, Helena Rubinstein,
and with the annual art prize in her
name, it is perhaps the best known to
the widest public. Miss Rubinstein be-
gan in Melbourne in 1902. and a com-
pany in her name was registered there
more than 50 years ago.
However, it did not have continuous
life and Miss Rubinstein soon left for
London, then Paris, and the United
States. The company is now a public
one in the United States. Miss Rubinstein
reputedly made her first million dollars
before she was 25 and is now certainly
worth more than 100 million dollars.
Most of the business administration is
now in the hands of her son, Roy Titus,


but Miss Rubinstein still largely controls
products and publicity. “She is still the
most effective publicity person I have
met,” her Sydney advertising manager,
Mr J. Colwell, said. Although Rubin-
stein is now a public company, there
is another company, the manufacturing
one on Long Island, which is still a
private one. The public company
naturally has no option about marketing
the products from Long Island.
Strong 111-feeling
In Australia there is also a manufac-
turing company, Helena Rubinstein Pty.
Ltd., and a distributing company, As-
sociated Beauty Aids Pty Ltd, which
was founded by Hungarian Ernest Vadas,
and now controlled by his widow, Mrs
Maria Gombos.
The industry in America has a repu-
tation for strong ill-feeling between
competitors. Miss Arden called it “the
nastiest business in the world.” She and
Miss Rubinstein have never really been
chums. If they have one thing in com-
mon it is their dislike of Mr Charles
Revson, one of the brothers who found-
ed Revlon. “I just don’t like that man,”
Miss Arden said once. To make her like
him even less, Revlon has now battered
its way to second place in the American
cosmetics sales list. (Firmly at the top
of the list is Avon, which sells its pro-
ducts very good ones, according to
people in the Australian industry—from
door to door with the help of some
100,000 trained demonstrators and with-
out the help of advertising or retail out-
lets. Avon has no parallel here).
In Australia, although competition is
keen, this ill-feeling does not seem to
have seeped through. Cosmetics makers
here, or the great majority of them, be-
long to the Toilet Preparations’ Associa-
tion and are prepared to act in concert
on a number of matters. These include
the 25 per cent, sales tax on cosmetics
(dusting pow'der for dogs is exempt
while baby talc carries 25 per cent, is
a comparison the Association makes)
and the fact that cosmetics makers are
the only industrial users of alcohol who
pay excise. The Association also tries
to take a firm stand to keep cosmetics
out of store price-cutting w'ars.
Although cosmetics are not an in-
dustry which puts money into the pockets
of Australian investors, it is nonetheless
an industry w’hich employs Australians
at all levels and which makes as much
use as possible of local ingredients and
components. Sometimes a new-type lip-
stick case may be imported until such
time as local firms can tool up to make
it here. This is usually only to keep one
maker ahead of his competitor.
In general, perfume essences are im-
ported from France and most of the per-
fumes sold under the brand names of
the cosmetic houses are bottled in France
although they may be packaged here.
However, Max Factor, for example,
make their perfumes here.
Colorings for lipsticks are imported
from the United States, because the
quantity used here would not justify
setting up production. However, at the
moment the industry in the United States
is carrying on a running battle with the
Food and Drug Administration on the
question of the use of coal-tar in lipstick
colorings. If coal tar is banned the only
colorings will be some devastating
browns. “Someone in the F.D.A. fed
some of this coal-tar to rats and it gave
them some type of carcinoma,” a local
executive gave as his version. “So they
decided that it was dangerous for human
beings, although, of course, no human
being is going to eat a lipstick.” (This
is a difficult point on which to get re-
liable statistics. However, it might be
assumed that what is left on handker-
chiefs, the rims of glasses and elsewhere
is more than is actually swallowed).
“This was the same fellow in the F.D.A.
who a few years ago ruined the cran-
berry industry. He’s notorious.”
In Australia, the Food Additives Com-
mittee was set up under the direction of
the National Health and Medical Re-
search Council to investigate, report on
and make recommendations on the use
of coloring matter in cosmetics. Makers
have been asked to send, in confidence,
details of the colors they use, or plan
to use. The recommendations of the
committee will probably take into ac-
count the final decision of the Food
and Drug Administration.
One important part of local produc-
tion packaging is almost entirely
handled here. Many of the designs are
uniform throughout the world, but most
of the Christmas gift wrappings, at
present keeping the makers busy, are de-
signed here, because this special wrap-
ping is not usual in the United States.
“Someone began it here some years
ago,” a manufacturer said, “and we
have to keep it going. It’s a perfect pest,
because there is absolutely no profit in
it.”
Most of the components are made
here. Lipstick cases are made mainly by
two firms, Eyelets in Melbourne and
Popolare in Sydney. Eyelets originally
made eyelets and during the war made
cartridge cases. Popolare is owned by
two Italian brothers.
However, although most of the in-
gredients and components are made in
Australia, they are not necessarily made
in proximity. About 80 per cent, of
cosmetics are made in Sydney. Cyclax,
the British firm, is the only large “name”
house which operates from Melbourne.
Most of the factories are in the suburbs,
if possible close to a local supply of
labor and with access to main roads or
railheads, because distribution is a big
factor in cosmetic marketing. However,
although cosmetics are made in Syd-
ney, most dress manufacturers, with
which the cosmetics people do seasonal
promotion, are in Melbourne. As a fur-
ther complication, most of the plastic
components are made in Melbourne.
Frequently the metal lipstick case may
be made in one factory in Sydney, the
plastic top for it in Melbourne, the actual
lipstick in another factory in Sydney and
the packaging and printing may be done
by two different firms. At some time
these parts must make a whole to get a
lipstick on the market.
One of the popular assumptions about
the cosmetics industry is that “it is all
made in the same factory” with different
labels put on afterwards. Certain brands
do have some of their cosmetics made in
the one factory that’s a cautious state-
ment if you like.
One factory making unbranded cose-
metics here is Kolmar, an Australian off-
shoot of an American company. Kolmar
Laboratories, with headquarters in New
York State, is the world’s largest private-
label manufacturer of cosmetics. At its
main factory alone it makes 100-million
lipsticks a year.
Kolmar in Australia was founded by
Mr Leslie Hall, an Australian, in 1940,
and is now established in Hornsby, NSW.
Kolmar can make nearly 400 different
lipstick colors in about a dozen differ-
ent formulas. It can call on more than
1000 formulas for different types of cos-
metics.
“This is a firm that the public never
hears of,” Mr Hall said. “We make
cosmetics for many leading houses, from
prestige firms down to chain stores. In
some cases, the cosmetics are made to the
firm’s own formula, but in other cases
they come to us with an idea and we see
if we have a formula to fit. After all, we
are specialists at the game. We have
four chemists here. All our ingredients
are BP—or better —and all our colors
are ‘certified’ meaning that they have
been tested for allergies.”
In a factory, set for safety’s sake
several feet from the main factory,
Kolmar make nail polishes. In this sec-
tion, because of the extremely volatile
nature of the ingredients, every vat is
earthed. “We have never had an accident
but it is amazing that some woman hasn’t
blown herself up with nail-polish some
time,” Mr Hall said. “When it hardens


they try to melt it down again near a
flame—a very dangerous procedure.”
There is no great mystery about hav-
ing certain products made elsewhere.
It simply is not economic for all makers
to tool up to make each product for a
market the size of Australia. Aerosol
cans are now used by most cosmetics
manufacturers, but their products, along
with fly-spray, Christmas snow, what-
have-you, are packaged by twaa or three
factories in this country, to the formula
of the marketing company.
Cosmetics makers claim that products
made outside their own factory are made
to their own formulas and there is no
possible reason to doubt it. If there is
not a great deal of variation in ingredi-
ents, there is some in color. Manufac-
turers of most brands claim that you can
buy a certain color of their lipstick or
powder anywhere in the world and get
the same color and texture. With many
houses a sample from each batch of
each cosmetic is sent to head office in
the United States or United Kingdom
to check for color and quality. This
may have to be done on an average of
once a day.
One exception from this procedure
of sending samples to head office is
Helena Rubinstein. This firm seems to
lead a more independent life than most.
Helena Rubinstein may vary its formu-
las to suit local conditions, and a Helena
Rubinstein lipstick of a certain color
bought in another country may not be
exactly the same as one bought here,
although, of course, in most cases it
will be similar. Rubinsteins also sa>
they will vary formulas for local con
ditions, particularly in the tropics where
some products have an uneconomical!}
short “shelf life.”
Well-organised Bakery
However, other makers, such as Max
Factor, who make their own lipsticks
in their own factory and who claim to
sell more than 50 per cent, of all the
lipsticks sold in Australia, say that their
lipsticks are the same the world over.
A trip through a cosmetics factory is
akin to a visit to a brewery by a beer-
drinker, something which is reputed to
turn even the enthusiastic consumer off
his favorite product for periods of up to
several days.
A cosmetics factory is rather like a
well-organised bakery. Lipstick ingredi-
ents slowly melt like warm blood in
giant vats. Then the mixture is poured
into moulds, refrigerated in tiny re-
frigerators for about half an hour, after
which each stick is pressed by hand into
a metal case. The pow'der room
which is probably called something else
—is thick with perfumed dust. Workers
have to drink large quantities of milk
and the room must be well ventilated,
although the danger of silicosis is not
acute. Men in the industry go home each
night with their clothes impregnated with
a variety of perfumes. This is just an
occupational hazard.
Competition with new products is in-
tense, but once one manufacturer breaks
through with a new “discovery” the
others follow quickly. Bristol-Myers
worked for nearly six years on a roll-on
deodorant. Six months after it appeared
in the United States a dozen firms had
copied it. Although the laboratories of
one firm can break down the formulas
of its rivals, many of the new formulas
are compounded in private laboratories
and sold to a cosmetics manufacturer.
This manufacturer might make a condi-
tion of sale that they have exclusive
rights for, say, six or 12 months.
The marketing of cosmetics is, if any-
thing, more fascinating than the making.
As Mr Keen or was it Mr Colman?
—made his million out of the mustard
left on the plate, so the cosmetics manu-
facturer makes his money out of the
half-used lipsticks in the bedroom
drawer, out of the nail-polish which
thickens in the bottle below the level
the brush can reach, out of what a
woman in the industry called “the jars
of dead enthusiasm.”
The cosmetics industry today does
not sell cosmetics in the sense of per-
suading women they should wear them.
That battle is ended. Nor do they worry
about the sort of Sunday-paper psy-
chology: Why do women seek beauty?
They are interested only in why women
will buy a certain product and not an-
other; why one firm can successfully
sell products with medical-sounding
names to young girls with acne, yet an-
other company, which specialises in
glamorous-sounding products, will fall
flat on its face when it tries the same
line. The cosmetics makers are interested
in selling as much as possible. To do
this they now talk of fashion in cos-
metics. Eye make-up is fashion, and a
profitable one. So is bringing out new
lipstick colors each spring and autumn.
It’s pink or coral each spring, red each
autumn, but the name is never the same.
Most firms, however, say they are
not interested in the “one-shot” sale.
Their trained demonstrators and sales-
girls work towards getting converts, not
just customers. The demonstrator’s firm
is interested in how many make-up charts
she fills in for possible customers, not
how much she sells. “You can’t get
them to sell a lot of stuff to a woman
who doesn’t need it in the hope they’ll
never see her again,” said a store execu-
tive. “They’re content to sell you what
they think you really want, but if you
come back —then you’re sold.” However,
makers are resigned to the fact that
customers have no brand-loyalty. From
a survey of 15,000 women in the United
States, not one bought all her cosme-
tics in the same brand.
The industry is making some headway
with men’s toiletries. “Australian men
aren't quite as likely to smell like a herd
of goats these days,” said an executive.
“Some of them will use a deodorant.”
However, Elizabeth Arden reports sur-
prising success with their famous “Blue
Grass” perfume among Italian cane-cut-
ters in north Queensland. Italian men
are used to toilet water and, entering into
the Australian pioneering spirit, when
nothing was available for men they
bought women’s perfume.
The Part of Advertising
A popular assumption about cosmetics
is that what goes into the bottles is
worth only a few pence and “the rest
goes in advertising.” Advertising cer-
tainly does play a large part, although
cosmetics makers say it is not as high
as, for example, with cigarette or soap-
powder and detergent makers. One cos-
metics manufacturer, perhaps not the
largest, but again not the smallest, said
hat his advertising represented about 15
per cent, of the value of the wholesale
product. With 25 per cent, sales tax and
the retailer's mark-up added, this was
about six per cent, of the retail price.
Cosmetics makers claim, and it seems
true of all except the most strong-minded
women, that the customer is not buying
what is in the bottle or jar exclusively.
She is buying the “image” (how did the
industry get along without tha f word?)
that the name on the bottle conjures
up. That image is of luxury, prestige,
glamor no matter what, it is still only
created by advertising, direct and in-
direct. If a customer wants to borrow the
qualities conjured up by a famous name
in cosmetics she must expect to pay
for it. The makers say, too, that their
advertising is not simply directed to
establishing a brand-name. It gives the
customer information about when and
where to use the products, and hence
becomes part of the product.
Cosmetics makers claim that women
don’t really want cheap cosmetics, so
why try to sell them something they
don’t want? There is no question of the
manufacturers conspiring to keep prices


at a set level. There are enormous vari-
ations from French-made imports right
down to the house-label cosmetics sold
by the chain stores and some depart-
ment stores.
However, the cosmetics makers do
fight bitterly against discount selling,
which, they believe, robs them of a valu-
able part of the commodity they are sell-
ing. The Toilet Preparations’ Association
has just finished skirmishing with a shop
in a capital city which over some time
has been discounting branded cosmetics.
At the moment a truce seems to have
been declared.
However, discount selling of cosmetics
and even the “trade in” of old lipsticks
and other items for the purchase of
something new is very common in
America. A cosmetic manufacturer will
allow perhaps 25 or 35 cents on an old
lipstick if you buy a new one of his
brand. This sort of thing was tried by
one local manufacturer about two years
ago and was a resounding failure. “Aus-
tralian women are suspicious of getting
something for nothing,” a local execu-
tive said. “They just don’t want their
cosmetics on the cheap.”
But Mr Rex Mulholland, the head of
Max Factor here, who has just returned
from a conference of Max Factor In-
ternational in Hollywood, believes it
will come eventually. “We don’t want
it,” he said. “None of us do, but it will
come.”
In Every Chemist Shop
Another intangible for which the cos-
metic buyer has to pay is distribution.
Some firms such as Arden and Rubin-
stein have what they call limited distri-
bution, but others, such as Max Factor,
say proudly that they go into every
chemist shop in Australia, about 5000 of
them. In the average town or suburb
most cosmetic manufacturers have more
outlets than practically any other manu-
facturer of perishable goods. But where-
as the cigarette manufacturer has, per-
haps, less than half a dozen brands to
keep on the retailer’s shelves, the cos-
metic manufacturer may have up to
400 separate items to supply. Each lip-
stick may have two formulas, two pack-
ages, 20 or more colors. Powder may be
loose or pressed into cakes. When a cus-
tomer goes into a shop she does not
want a lipstick. She wants one of a cer-
tain color, price, name and brand. If
she cannot get that she may be lost
to that brand for ever. If a customer
cannot get his brand of cigarettes one
day he will probably be buying the next
day and will make his choice anew,
but the cosmetic buyer buys each item
only every couple of months, or per-
haps only once a year. If she doesn’t
get her brand the first time the next time
it will be only a dim memory.
Yet anqther intangible which adds to
the cost of cosmetics is the demonstrator.
All the leading firms employ demon-
strators who go from shop to shop, doing
special promotions. Most of them also
give special courses of perhaps a week
to girls from chemists’ shops and de-
partment stores to enable them to give
some advice and help to customers. The
demonstrators also go to women’s
groups and to afternoon tea parties in
the suburbs, lecturing but not, in this
instance, selling. Helena Rubinstein say
their demonstrators have spoken to more
than 250,000 women in this way in the
past three years.
“We try to give them a bit extra,”
Miss Beatrice Krauss, chief demonstrator
at Elizabeth Arden said. “We show them
how to sell our products, but we also
want them to take a pride in their work
and to feel they belong to the Arden
‘family.’ ” Because moast cosmetics sales-
girls do know how to sell their product,
they are rarely moved from their counter
in the department stores, and it would be
unthinkable to transfer them to another
brand. If there is little brand-loyalty
among customers, among the salesgirls
and demonstrators it is very strong.
“Few of them would ever think of buy-
ing another brand,” a store executive
said. “You might get one detached
enough to use another brand lipstick to
match a dress, but mostly they really
believe.”
Most of the cosmetics maker’s adver-
tising and promotion, then, is directed
towards cherishing the “image” of the
company. It may be gratifying to cos-
metics users to know that just as ageing
or rather, to translate, maturing is
the chief problem which cosmetics set
out to overcome, it is something which
troubles the cosmetics makers, too.
For example, the British-owned firm
of Cyclax has the Royal warrant and |s
proud of it. However, the Queen is no
longer a young girl in a fairy-tale coacli
going tp her Coronation, nor is her sub-
dued style of dressing and grooming
likely to catch the fickle eye of the
young girl. So Cyclax over the past few
years has tried subtly to keep the image
of good quality cosmetics, but at the
same time to use models for their ad-
vertisements who look slightly less like
English roses. “The Cyclax image is
changing,” a department-store executive
said, “because they found the young girls
were dismissing it as ‘the stuff than Mum
uses.’ ” Elizabeth Arden’s famous Blue
Grass perfume is another example. This
has been a “name” perfume for many
years, but when asked just how many
a Sydney executive of the company said,
“Let us say it was introduced before the
war.’ If young women see it on the
counter, Elizabeth Arden want them to
see it as something exciting and new,
and not as something considerably older
than themselves.
The dilemma of the “image” is whe-
ther you want the young market or the
older woman. Elizabeth Arden says: “We
are a treatment house” and they carry
rich and expensive creams, aimed at pre-
serving a youthful appearance. But at
the same time treatments are also pro-
vided for the young spotty skin. Max
Factor says: “Yes, we think we have
a good slice of the teenage market.” But
at the same time they point out that
their firm produces many creams for
skin treatment for the older woman.
Helena Rubinstein says simply: “We
think we can get it both ways. Of course,
we all want to get it both ways.” And
that, of course, is the whole cosmetics
story.
"Ah, me, Giovanni is so persistent"


South African Newsletter
THE LAND OF SAD PRETENCE
Problems multiply, civil liberties disappear, but Verwoerd still rides high...
From ANTHONY DELIUS in Capetown
TI/lembers of the South African Gov-
ernment frequently aver that South
Africa is not really a part of Africa, but
of Europe, or to put it more largely, of
the West. Then, because contradictions
have long ceased to matter in the Re-
public’s politics, they add that the
country is the only reliable, solvent, and
militarily powerful “bastion of the West”
in .Africa. Both assertions are designed,
perhaps unconsciously, to conceal how
very much like the rest of modern Africa
the country is becoming.
This was neatly illustrated in an in-
cident in the debate on the drastic “anti
sabotage” measure which was passed just
as this year's session of Parliament ended
in late June. The Act, which is really a
further extension of the already limitless
powers under the Suppression of Com-
munism Act, provides sentences ranging
from a five-year minimum to death for
sabotage, and makes practically any form
of extra-parliamentary opposition liable
to be called sabotage. In the midst of the
second reading of the bill an Opposition
middle-bencher read out a series of sen-
tences which sounded remarkably like
those just used by the Minister of Justice,
Mr John Vorster, to justify his legisla-
tion.
“What are you repeating all that for?”
asked a Government member impatient-
ly-
“l thought you might be interested in
some extracts from the Ministerial
speech made in support of Ghana’s Pre-
ventive Detention Act,” replied the Op-
position speaker.
The fact is that after 14 years of rule
(May 26 was the 14th anniversary of
Afrikaner Nationalism’s coming to
power), and after the electoral achieve-
ment of two-thirds of the seats in the all-
White Parliament, the Nationalists are
becoming increasingly intolerant of op-
position. It is a phenomenon which has
developed more quickly in all the newer
states of Africa Sudan, Egypt, Mali,
Guinea, Ivory, Coast, Ghana, even Tan-
ganyika and Nigeria and the South
African pattern is hauntingly similar, like
that on the reverse side of a rug.
Everywhere in Africa the dominant
approach to politics is racialistic. From
the Mediterranean to the Zambesi the
struggle of the African parties is to
assert the power, not of a particular
brand of politics, but of the Black Afri-
can majority, the “African Personality”.
In South Africa during the election that
followed our becoming a republic to de-
velop our “unique historical personality”,
Dr Verwoerd, the Prime Minister, ad-
dressed himself exclusively (and still
does) to the Nation, “by which I mean
the White Nation of South Africa”, all
three million of it.
The other two million Colored (mixed
race) and Asian people and the 10
million Africans have been legislated
into political invisibility. In the last two
months the Government has been push-
ing ahead rapidly with this fascinating
experiment of expelling an uncomfort-
able majority into electoral isolation
wards or would it be gas chambers?
Garden cities are everywhere being
planned for the Colored folk as muni-
cipal “states within the state”; and the
first Bantustan to be achieved after a
decade of promises, the 1,000,000 rolling
acres of the Transkei containing the
homes of some 2,000,0000 Xhosa-speak-
ing Africans, has received its first instal-
ment of autonomous government, includ-
ing a five-twelfths elected parliament
and a Cabinet of half a dozen. However,
internal security and external affairs
and a few other key points of power
remain in the (White) Government’s
hands.
The ultimate end of this process will
be that, when there are eight Bantust-
ans (comprising 13 per cent, of SA’s
land surface) and innumerable Colored
Garden cities, everybody will be ruled
by his own kind. The Colored people,
of course, will not have political auth-
ority above the autonomous city council
level, and the English-speaking White
minority will be ruled forever by the
Afrikaner white majority. But, as Dr
Verwoerd never tires of repeating, every-
body has to make some sacrifices in
order to end racial discrimination.
It is a very neat and orderly idea. It
appeals greatly to many White and even
some Colored and Black South Africans.
If this new model of “divide and rule”
really works it will certainly keep the
Afrikaners, “the only people who really
know how to maintain civilisation under
African conditions”, in general control
ad infinitum. The Nationalists are even
confident that by this means South Afri-
ca can be carved up politically without
sacrificing any important part of the
African and Colored labor on which
the country’s powerful economy is based.
The Africans and the Coloreds can
work within and enjoy the economic
benefits of “White” South Africa and
whenever they feel the urge to exercise
political rights they can withdraw briefly
into their Bantustans and Garden Cities
to vote to their heart’s content among
their own kind.
But this cantonisation into politically
separate racialisms, while very African,
does destroy the one quality of life in
South Africa that makes the country
unique on this continent. In some of the
universities, political organisations, city
councils, unions and almost all of the


factories there has been 50 and more
years agrowing a practical nonraclal con-
cept of human organisation, a Ifncept
that looked beyond color of skin, type of
hair, shape of nose, etc., to the essential
human being.
The former Union, now the Republic,
was (and still is) the one place in Africa
where something like a racial balance
could be struck. Here the minority popu-
lation blocks are powerful and numerous
enough to discourage the primitive racial
ploy. The Whites, Coloreds and Asians
together practically equal the African
group in the areas where they are most
completely mixed up, the so-called
“White areas”.
The possibility of such a balance in
the areas of greatest cultural and econ-
omic vitality in the Republic gives the
country its greatest chance of easing into
a nonracial future. No doubt there will
one day be an African majority in the
electorate and the Government, but if
the nonracial concept is deeply em-
bedded into constitution and tradition
before that development, South Africa
may make a significant contribution to
the world, torn by the same problems
as she at present is.
U.P. Gropes Towards a Policy
This is the chc»nce that the Liberal
Party (one man one vote) and the Pro-
gressive Party (a qualified nonracial
franchise) are already offering the elec-
torate and the policy towards which
the biggest (by far) opposition party,
the United Party, is circuitously groping
its way through a jungle of White pre-
judices and a twittering undergrowth of
reservations.
The United Party has just been joined
by two disillusioned Nationalists, Mr
Japie Basson and the former Chief Jus-
tice Henry Fagan, who may help to sort
the party’s policies into something more
orderly than the present mare’s nest of
compromises and contradictions.
But the Nationalist Party has decided
that to believe in nonracialism as a
policy is like going through life pretend-
ing that human beings haven’t got skins
—and very thick skins at that. They
have struck at all the points of racial
contact. The universities have been
sealed off against racial intermixture
and so have the city councils, the trade
unions, and even the libraries. In the
factories certain categories of work are
“reserved” for particular race groups.
Cinerhas, restaurants (except in some
tiny enclaves in Cape Town), theatres
have likewise been racially sorted out.
They have, in fact, atomised the
slogan in the rest of Africa, “Africa for
the Africans”, into “Each sort of Afri-
can for his sort of Africa”.
And yet we seem to be as far away
from apartheid as ever. The numbers
of Africans in “White” cities (there are
no other) have increased by over one
million during the years of Nationalist
rule at a faster rate than they did
previously. The number of non-White
workers in the “White” industries goes
on up and up and up. As the brilliant
African academician, Professor Zachariah
Matthews, said on leaving the country
in May, “The more we try not to be to-
gether, the more we are”. It is an infuri-
ating position for the Nationalists—very
human, but very infuriating.
The notable thing about the Afrikaner
Nationalists is their dour optimism. They
believe that if only everybody, and especi-
ally the English language press, the Afri-
can Nationalists and the “communists”,
would stay quiet for a little while, the
racial utopia would be realised. Ban-
tustans, Garden Cities, and all the rest
of the good things, would arrive pain-
lessly, even gloriously. Essentially, the
vast powers of the “anti-sabotage” act
use the excuse of sabotage as an excuse
to drive all the most trenchant critics of
apartheid into silence.
Very few saboteurs may be hanged
as a result of this measure, but a large
number of liberally inclined South Afri-
cans will suffer house arrest, banning
and proscription of the right to speak
out. A number of vigorous periodicals
and weeklies may be stopped from pub-
lishing. But the Nationalists comfort
themselves that all this will only be tem-
porary until everybody, even the Gov-
ernment’s most violent opponents, will
eventually emerge from political Coven-
try and be converted by the final benison
of what is called “Positive Apartheid in
Practice”.
The great mass of fairly moderate
African Nationalists, led by ex-Chief
Albert Luthuli (awarded the Nobel Peace
Prize by world opinion and branded a
“communist” by the local authorities), be-
lieves the Government is going the right
way to produce an eventual Marxist-
Leninist shambles in the country. They
hold that the only way to avoid this is
to finish off apartheid quickly by keep-
ing the international heat on South
Africa, and making sure that it gets even
hotter. That is why Mr Luthuli moved so
swiftly to wreck the minor diplomatic
triumph that Dr Verwoerd seemed to
have gained from a three-week visit to
the country by the Chairman and Vice-
Chairman of the United Nations Com-
mittee on South-West Africa.
“South Africa’s Achilles Heel”
The visit was intended by Dr Ver-
woerd to lower the dangerous interna-
tional pressures round South Africa’s
mandate inherited from the 1914-18
War, the ex-German territory of South-
West Africa, now called by the Afro-
Asians “South Africa’s Achilles Heel”.
It is the one spot under South African
administration that the world has got a
good international right to pry into.
There is even now pending a case be-
fore the International Court brought by
Ethiopia and Liberia challenging the
continuance of the mandate. It was ob-
viously a good tactic on South Africa’s
part to cool off excitement about SWA.
The UN visitors, Mr Victorio Carpio
of the Philippines and Dr Martinez de
Alva of Mexico, were only too willing
to make some minor diplomatic conces-
sions in order to get permission for a
visit from the whole UN Committee on
SWA of seven, with the precedent it
might set for regular UN visits to the
territory — an area, incidentally on
which South Africa even refused so
much as to send in reports to the UN
They signed an extraordinary joint state-
ment with Dr Verwoerd at the end of
their visit — or, at least de Alva did,
for Carpio was by then suffering from
a kidney infection — proclaiming they
did not find any evidence “in the places
visited” that SWA was a “threat to world
peace”. No word was said about apar-
theid, however.
But immediately Mr Luthuli, from the
spot on the Natal Coast where he has
been exiled by the Government, sent off
cables of protest about the joint state-
ment as appearing “to condone apar-
theid”. They went to U Thant, to the
Afro-Asian group at the UN, to Mr
Carpio lying in Pretoria hospital. The
reactions from the Afro-Asian world
were immediate and vehement, as were
also the reactions from Mr Carpio’s Gov-
ernment which had just appointed him to
the key Afro-Asian post, the Cairo
Embassy. As he left South Africa Mr
Carpio said that he had had nothing to
do with the drafting of the joint state-
ment —and when Mr Carpio reached
Cairo he announced that he had even
disapproved of the joint statement.


OUT AND ABOUT
NOT A COMMON OFFICE BOY
"Something tremendously exciting is happening in Australia"
By PATRICIA ROLFE
Someone said: “He’s so young look-
ing. I thought he was the office
boy.” However, Mr John Tasker
does not seem like an office boy or, at
least, not like an Elizabethan Theatre
Trust office boy. In fact, Mr Tasker,
at 29, has a flaring enthusiasm and solid
confidence which could be signs of the
onset of premature middle age.
His enthusiasm and confidence are at
the moment mainly directed towards the
play he is producing for the Trust,
Patrick White’s “The Ham Funeral”,
which will open at the Palace Theatre,
Sydney, on July 11. At Mr White’s
request, Mr Tasker produced the play
in Adelaide last November at the Uni-
versity Union Hall. Three of the original
cast are in the Sydney production; seven
are new players.
Mr Tasker and Mr White appear to
have developed strong support, based
partly on running controversies (Mr
White, after seeing how Mr Tasker pro-
duced “Oedipus” for his own Theatre
Project, said that local players could
not do Greek plays, but they might be
able to do Chekhov; Mr Tasker says
they can do Greek plays, but should not
try Chekhov) and on phobias in common
(“We both have an intense horror of
fire,” Mr Tasker said).
“The Ham Funeral,” which remained
untouched in a drawer at one of Sydney’s
little theatres for nine years, was written
about the same time as “The Aunt’s
Story”, which remains Mr Tasker’s
favorite White novel. Although Mr
Tasker does not subscribe to the handy
theatrical theory that “The play’s the
thing” “misquoted and misused,” he
says—he is handling “The Ham Funeral”
with loving care.
“I have known Mr White for 2i
years and we seem to be on the same
wavelengths, but I would not be so
presumptuous as to meddle with his
play,” Mr Tasker said. “When we did
a reading at the National Institute of
Dramatic Art we rehearsed for 40 or 50
hours. After that reading Mr White
made any changes he wished or thought
necessary. At one point I told him that
when the landlady chased the young poet
around the kitchen table there was not
enough dialogue to keep the action
going, so he wrote some more. He does
not have a literary approach to the
theatre at all. In fact, he knows and
understands the stage well.”
Mr Tasker has had something of a
reputation for being a rather tricksy
producer, but he thinks those days are
behind him. “After years of rebellion
I am rebelling less,” he said. “Perhaps
it is just that I am doing plays that I
trust more. I do not think that Aus-
tralians care for, or are ready for, com-
pletely pure theatre. They want some
excitement, they want their attention
held. But with ‘The Ham Funeral’ I do
not want to come between the playwright
and his play.”
Mr Tasker said that in Adelaide the
play was seen by 3000 people in 10
nights, and that he had no doubt it could
get Mr White across to a wide audience.
“Of course, the first discovery is that
the play is extremely funny,” he said.
“However, I do believe that what you
might call intellectuals, who went to the
play hunting for symbols, were not
happy. But for the average playgoer
‘The Ham Funeral’ was a very strong
theatrical experience.”
11/fR tasker said that Miss Zoe Caldwell
• ■ would play in the Sydney produc-
tion. “Hers is not a big part and I hope
that the audience will not wonder why
she took it,” he said. “It is a very diffi-
cult and demanding role to which she is
bringing a lot. We have Nellie Lamport
and Beryl Meekin as the two ‘profes-
sional’ ladies. Both have had wide stage
experience and Miss Lamport, an old
hoofer from the English music hall, will
be on stage for the first time in 20
years.”
Mr Tasker has already cast Mr
White’s “Season at Sarsaparilla” which
will be produced in Adelaide in Septem-
ber. “It is a sort of Australian ‘Under
Milk Wood’ and the action moves be-
tween three families, their houses and
their backyards.”
What route brought Mr Tasker to the
theatre? “I began producing children’s
plays while I was in my intermediate at
Newcastle,” he said. “My parents are
not in the theatre, but they are theatrical
in the sense of being wonderfully lively
and complete extroverts.”
Mr Tasker went to Europe in 1952
and stayed away for seven years. “Be-
cause so many people go a couple of
times to the Berliner Ensemble and come
back thinking they know everything that
is happening in the theatre in Europe, I
like to remind myself that I did remark-
ably little while I was away,” he said.
He did, however, do a course at the
Central School of Speech and Drama.
“That severely put me off theatre,” Mr
Tasker said. “I suppose I was a rebel-
lious person, but so much of what is
taught at drama school is useless. Or,
rather, perhaps you should learn it, then
cast it off.”
After the Central School of Speech
and Drama had finished its task of put-
ting Mr Tasker off the theatre, he went
to Vienna. He spent 2i years in Ger-
many and Austria.
“In Austria 1 did commentaries for
art and travel films, and other films made
by private companies under Government
sponsorship,” he said. “In fact, I did all
sorts of things. I even lectured on Gains-
borough. I remember talking about
Gainsborough’s portrait of Johann Sebas-
tian Bach, when someone stood up and
said, ‘But surely that was the other
Bach’. Of course, they were right.”
Family reasons brought Mr Tasker
home. “I did not want to come back to
Australia and I was violently sick all the
way back on the ship,” he said. “I sup-
pose it was partly psychological.
“But now I positively do not want to
go away. Of course, I think a producer
should go somewhere every three years
or so and see something of what is being
done elsewhere. If I followed that idea
I would be taking off somewhere right
now. However, it will be some time
before I go anywhere and then it will be
strictly for a visit.
“At the moment I feel something
tremendously exciting is happening in
Australia. I feel we are developing our
own style. Australia and Russia have
been the only two countries where the
school of social realism still survives, but
we are moving out of that at last. Some-
thing is going to happen, and I must be
here for it.”


DOWNER'S SENORITAS
The girl-chasing game in Spain
By ELBA LOPEZ
4,4»rTiH HE international girl-chaser,”
® i Mr Downer, has apparently
A scored some amazing successes
in France. At least the newspaper reports
from Paris tell of large numbers of
pretty French girls hurrying, like piglets
after truffles, to investigate the chances
of finding husbands in Australia. So far
there has been no reports of comparable
successes from another stop on the Im-
migration Minister’s itinerary, Madrid.
And the chances are slim that there will
be.
Mr Downer, the reports say, would
like Spanish girls to come to Australia;
perhaps to marry some of the Spanish
bays already here, but in any case to
marry someone. But he will find that
the Spanish girl is in a very different
situation from her French counterpart.
She lives in a complex of social pressures
that most French girls (or English, or
Australian) never dream of.
In the first place, all the traditional
attitudes are still very strong in Spain. A
girl is brought up closely within the
home; her duties there are taken quite
seriously. Her only career outside the
home is marriage; those few Spanish
girls who do enter professions, or even
trades, are regarded usually as some-
thing very strange. Social pressures are
also on her to marry young; there is
an old saying that if a girl does not
marry before 25, she will be “left to
dress saints”. Then, too, she is not ex-
pected to go on in school; higher educa-
tion is rare indeed. It is worth noting that
when a girl does go to high school in
Spain one of the courses in which she
is examined is “good manners”.
Unlike most French girls a Spanish
girl cannot leave home before she is 21
without explicit parental permission. Be-
tween 21 and 25 she can leave without
this permission, but only by becoming
a ward of the State. After 25 she is
free (but not if she continues to live at
home). In my own case I was able to
leave for England before my 21st birth-
day only by threatening to go to Barce-
lona as soon as that day arrived—and any
Spanish father would rather his daughter
lived in England (or Australia) than
Barcelona.
Of course, the chance to do something
exciting, to make more money and to
have a better life will appeal to many
girls. One proverb which a girl in Spain
learns almost before any other runs
“anas cardan la lana y otros ganan la
fama” —some card wool and some win
fame and the opportunity to prove
it wrong could be very attractive.
Some girls, given the chance, might
come to work for a time, but the idea
of finding a husband would not be at-
tractive in itself. There is no shortage
of marriageable men in Spain as there
is in some other European countries.
A completed trip, however, would
bring many rewards; not only the money
acquired in Australia but the admira-
tion of the girl’s village, or neighbor-
hood, as well. She definitely would not
be ostracised for having travelled.
Take the case of Carmen (I shall call
her that since it is a fitting name for
a girl from a village near Seville), who
is typical of the Spanish girl already in
Australia. She came to Australia over a
year ago under a plan sponsored by the
Catholic Church; most of her time here
has been spent in Melbourne, but re-
cently she came to Sydney. She has
never had an idea of settling; she came
to do domestic work, and that is what
she has done. Carmen speaks English
badly; she had never studied, and has
learnt only what she has had to pick
up. She likes the money that she earns
(this is her chief interest, in fact) and
she likes the freedom of her life here.
Yet on the whole she doesn’t like
Australia; there is a lack of something.
Perhaps she misses her friends and
family; perhaps it is just that she finds
Australian ways odd the early clos-
ing, the absence of life on Sunday (which
in Spain is the liveliest day of all). The
boys she goes out with are mostly
Spanish and, although they are usually
Basques from the North, she prefers
them to Australian boys but this is
largely the language problem, no doubt.
The best description of Carmen would
be to call her “passive” she is not
really interested in staying in Australia
but not more interested in going back.
If she does go back, she will put her
money in the bank, find a job and live
with her mother. No one would think
her exceptional in this attitude.
TRIAL BY TRANSLATION
writer knows the fretting
anguish of the search for the elusive
sentence, phrase or word. Housman,
for instance, tells us that he wrote
one stanza 13 times during the course
of a year. The exacting judgment
of a Housman may or may not be
exercised by his translator.
The German versions of my short
stories, so I’m told, vary considerably
from good to very bad, and
depending, of course, on the talents
of the various translators. The best
were done by a German writer, now
dead, who approached me while I
was living in London. He had some
appreciation of the short story—and,
of Australian idiom. Wherever
possible he sought a German equiva-
lent of Australian idiom—not a literal
one but conveying the same spirit.
Letters from the various State
Publishing Houses of the Communist
countries reveal certain national
characteristics. The Russians, for
instance, are nationalistic. They write
in Russian which means a delay of a
day or so while you find someone to
translate the letter.
The Czechs, more European and
cosmopolitan, write in excellent
English. Their contracts are models
of simplicity and fairness. And they
pay you promptly. Nor are they
apparently worried by Australianisms
for they are bringing out my “Iron-
bark Bill” collection of tall stories
shortly.
The Yugoslavs, too, write in
English. But they don’t pay you
because, they plead, of the extreme
lack of foreign currency. This was
all very courteously explained when
permission was sought to include one
of my stories, You Go, Florence
Nightingale in an anthology of Aus-
tralian stories.
j sometimes WO nder about the
Hungarian w h o wrote to me in 1960
and ho began engagingly; “ Y ou will
probably be surprised to get a letter
from Hungary But tbe more you
wiU the more you will g 0 on rea ding
Vj7 xcuse me? i was " no t going to
hur( . How f ortunate i was t 0
read tbree c f your stories. . .
He had concluded his letter, I
beg you, Mr Stivens, not to leave my
letter and request unanswered. Thank
you very much in advance,
DAL STIVENS


A PAGE
OF HARVEY


"JOIN OR BE SACKED"
A Guide to Compulsory Unionism Today
By PETER KELLY
The recently concluded agreement
between the Ford Motor Com-
pany and the Federated Clerks’
Union is one of the most significant in
Australian trade union history. The
agreement settled a dispute which at
times threatened to end in wide industrial
turmoil. The Clerks’ Union and the
Ford Company finally settled their dif-
ferences at a conference presided over
by the President of the Commonwealth
Conciliation and Arbitration Commission,
Sir Richard Kirby, on Wednesday, June
20. Although the dispute was a complex
one, involving other unions and other
employers’ organisations, there was one
issue which dwarfed all others: compul-
sory unionism.
Briefly, the union wanted the clerical
employees of Ford to join the union.
The company did not. In between these
two industrial giants were the bodies of
the clerical workers—some of whom
wanted to join but were scared to because
of company pressure; and there were
others who did not. But there is no
doubt who “won”.
The settlement agreed upon by the
parties and bearing the signatures of
Allan J. Tyrer, the Ford Company’s
Industrial Relations Manager, J. M.
Riordan, the Secretary of the Federated
Clerks’ Union, President Albert Monk
of ACTU, and Sir Richard Kirby, in-
cluded these clauses:
Clause 2 (a) of the Agreement in-
dicates that a substantial victory was
won by the Clerks: “. . . the Company
will as a condition of employment require
every new employee who at the time of
such employment is not a member of
the Union but is eligible for member-
ship to sign an application for member-
ship thereof and an undertaking that
he will, subject to the provisions of this
agreement, remain a financial member
of the Union during the whole term of
his employment with the Company”.
Clause 2 (c) states: “The Company
shall at the request of the Union dismiss
any employee who for a period of two
months after written notice to him by
the Union or the Company fails or omits
to observe the provisions of subclauses
(a) and (b) hereof”.
The agreement contains a “let-out”
clause for employees who have bona fide
religious objections to joining a union
and limits the membership to people re-
ceiving a salary of £l6OO or less or
those who become supervisors or “who
fulfil confidential or special positions”.
In effect this agreement compels all
future clerical employees of Ford to
join the Union. (The present employees
may join if they wish but neither the
union nor the company can pressurise
them either way.) While the exact legal
status of the agreement is in some doubt,
the fact that it is signed by the President
of the Commonwealth Conciliation and
Arbitration Commission will have
some far-reaching application in future
disputes involving clerical employees and
bearing on issues pertaining to unionism.
If other companies, in the motor in-
dustry in particular, are not already
girding their loins, they had better start
because it is obvious that Joe “Compul-
sory Unionism” Riordan, having once
tasted the fruits of victory, is now only
too anxious to knock-over the other
motor companies one by one. When he
knocks on their door he has only to wave
the agreement in front of their noses to
be reluctantly admitted and then quote
Sir Richard Kirby’s words: “I will be
as a conciliator most grievously disap-
pointed if it (the agreement) is not ac-
cepted by them so that it may be im-
plemented by the end of this week”. Any
company which stands up to such an
assault will need to be extremely resilient.
But the significance of the “compul-
sory unionism” agreement lies in its
effect on clerical employees. The Vehicle
Builders’ Union has for many years had
an agreement written into the award
with the motor companies requiring all
eligible employees to be members of the
union. (This agreement is not as strong
as the Clerks’ because it states that the
Companies “shall be entitled to dismiss”
employees who do not join or remain
members of the union. In the recent
agreement the Company must dismiss
unfinancial union members.)
Although most employers usually
throw up their hands at the mere
mention of compulsory unionism it has,
in different forms, been in operation in
Australia for many years. And most
employers, whether they realise it or
not, have helped in enforcing it. For
instance, no newspaper proprietor may
employ anyone eligible for membership
of the Australian Journalists’ Association
unless he joins the Association. Simi-
larly, there are agreements with the
Printing Industry Employees’ Union and
other unions that newspapers will not
employ anyone unless he is a member
of the appropriate union. This of course
means a non-unionist cannot get a job.
Similar situations exist in many industries
in regard to “blue-collar” unionists.
Nobody gets upset about such circum-
stances because they are now an accepted
part of industrial life. It suits the em-
ployer because it enables him to conduct
negotiations with one legal entity, the
union, and it suits the union because it
guarantees steady membership. (This
employer-union collaboration has gone
so far that some companies assist unions
by deducting union dues from their em-
ployees’ weekly pay-packet, remitting the
money to the union in quarterly
amounts.) When disputes go to the in-
dustrial tribunals there are clearly two
parties to deal with and Australia’s com-
pulsory arbitration system works more
smoothly in such circumstances.
“If you have compulsory arbitration,
you must have compulsory unionism,”
Mr Riordan argues. But in Australia
compulsory unionism has many faces.
No one in Australia can be compelled
by law to join a union. (The one exception
is under the Stevedoring Industry Act
where anyone who wishes to work in
the stevedoring industry must be a
member of the Waterside Workers’
Federation. This is the only industry in
Australia where complete compulsory
unionism exists on a legal basis.) But
this does not necessarily mean that
people join unions voluntarily. There is
the “closed shop” and a “union shop”.
In a “closed shop” the employer and a
union agree that only members of a
particular union will be employed at that
shop. A “union shop” is one in which
there is an agreement between the em-
ployer and the union that the employer
will give employment only to members
of a particular union but he may employ
any other person on condition that he
joins the union when he starts work.
(The recent Ford agreement could be


called both a closed shop and a union
shop in so far as clerical employees
could not join any other union covering
them and because all clerical employees
must join the union upon engagement.)
Although in these two instances there is
no compulsion, obviously the decision to
join a union can hardly be described as
voluntary If he does not “agree” to
join he does not get the job. These forms
of compulsory unionism are agreed upon
by the employer and the union.
In unions covering fitters and turners,
carpenters, printers, clothing trades (in
other words nearly all non-white collar
unions) there is in fact compulsory
unionism which does not need any legal
provisions for its enforcement. These
unions are generally strong enough to
force fellow-workers to join the union. It
requires little imagination to picture
what would happen at the BHP works if
somebody refused union membership.
A Matter of Interna! Compulsion
The same thing of course would happen
if a seaman refused membership of the
Seamen’s Union. In fact most of the
unions affiliated to the Australian
Council of Trade Unions are internally
militant enough to maintain a high level
of compulsory membership. It is only
in the isolated and small shops where
non-unionists could work and feel rela-
tively safe. This is one familiar aspect
of compulsory unionism.
Legally, however, compulsory union-
ism is more complicated. Federal Com-
missioner J. H. Portus has stated that
“it is clear that no power exists under
the Commonwealth Act to order com-
pulsory unionism”. He also considers it
doubtful whether the Commonwealth
Parliament has power to confer jurisdic-
tion to award compulsory unionism.
However, those people who object to
compulsion of any sort can take small
comfort from this as Commissioners can
grant preference to unions. This has
gradually come to mean compulsory
membership of trade unions.
In New Zealand, since 1936, every
worker covered by an award or industrial
agreement must be a member of a union
bound by an award or agreement. It is
doubtful whether or not any action
taken by the National Party, which in
the New Zealand election of 1960 had a
plank in its platform opposed to com-
pulsory unionism, could take the com-
pulsion out of that country’s compulsory
unionism. Several employers there have
gone on record supporting compulsory
unionism because they consider it gives
stability to industry. Under English law
compulsory unionism does not exist, but,
as in Australia, trade unions and em-
ployers make agreements which in effect
deprive employees of work in certain
industries unless they join the union.
It is probably under State industrial
Acts that one form of compulsory union-
ism, preference rights, has been fostered
more than under Commonwealth law.
On February 12 and 13 of this year,
the Full Bench of the NSW State In-
dustrial Commission granted absolute
preference rights to ten unions working
under 22 awards. The standard form of
a preference clause clearly defines what
is meant by absolute preference: “Such
preference shall be limited to the point
where a member of such union . . . and
a person who is not such a member are
offering for service or employment at
the same time and, in the case of re-
trenchment, to the point where either
such a member or such a person is to
be dismissed from service or employ-
ment”. This is about half-an-inch away
from legal compulsory unionism.
Although preference in one form or
another had been in existence for many
years in New South Wales it was not
until December, 1953, that the NSW
Labor Government decided to go the
whole hog and introduced compulsory
unionism by legislation. With the usual
loophole for conscientious objectors, this
legislation required everyone covered by
an industrial agreement or award to join
a union within 28 days of its enactment.
It provided penalties for both employers
and employees for failure to do so. Its
validity however was challenged in the
High Court and it has been buried there
ever since because no one appears willing
to resurrect an unknown giant. This was
the period when the balance of power
in the ALP in NSW swung towards the
left-wing unions and it was feared at that
time that this particular form of com-
pulsory unionism would give the right-
wing “white-collar” unions greater num-
erical strength within the trade union
movement and the ALP. This was a
contributing factor in the uncompleted
burial of NSW’s furthest venture into
compulsory unionism.
One incidental feature of the 1953
attempt by the NSW Government to
bring in compulsory unionism was that
every clerk in the Administrative Section
of Broken Hill Proprietary Limited
applied for exemption from the Act on
the grounds of conscientious objection.
In a note Mr Riordan wrote to the Sec-
retary of the ACTU, Mr H. Souter, he
said: “The forms setting out the appli-
cation to the Industrial Registrar were
produced by the company and given to
the individual clerks. The company said
at the time that it took this action at the
request of the clerical employees”.
Queensland vies with NSW in leading
the race to compulsory unionism by State
law. As far back as 1917 its Full Court
of the Arbitration Court held that it
could order preference to unionists; that
employers could make it a condition of
engagement to require prospective em-
ployees to become members of a union;
and that the employer should sack a
worker who fails to join a union. There
has been much chopping and changing
since then but preference to unionists
over non-unionists at the point of en-
gagement and at the point of dismissal is
normally the case in Queensland awards.
After a period of two weeks an em-
ployee, under law, must be sacked if he
fails to join the appropriate union.
In his book “The Development of
Australian Trade Union Law” Commis-
sioner Portus said this about a normal
preference clause written into one
Queensland award: “Awards in this form
appear to be prescribing not preference
but compulsory unionism. Union labor is
insisted on and not preferred. Yet a con-
sideration of various cases where em-
ployers have been prosecuted for failure
to dismiss non-unionists suggests that it
is apparently necessary for the prosecu-
tion to prove not only that a non-unionist
was employed for a certain period but
also that a competent unionist was
available and willing to replace the non-
unionist.” (Queensland ant'-compul-
sionists can take some consolation from
the last sentence!) Commissioner Portus
also believes that the high percentage of
unionism in Queensland as compared with
other States “appears to be the result of
the Court’s policy of compulsorv union-
ism”. The percentage figures on union
membership, up until 1956, more or less
reflect the different States’ attitudes
towards compulsory unionism as indi-
cated by their industrial laws. The per-
centage rates for that veor were:
Queensland 76. New South Wales 63,
Western Australia 57, South Australia
and Tasmania 56, and Victoria 53.
A Choice in Vic. and SA
In Western Australia the Court can
award preference but preference there
is not nearly as strong as under Queens-
land or New South Wales laws Victoria
and South Australia, two traditionally
non-labor States, are not at all favorable
to compulsory unionism. For instance,
in Victoria the relevant Act states:
“Nothing in this Act shall enable any
Wages Board (a) to determine any
matter relating to the preferential em-
ployment or dismissal of persons as being
or as not being members of any organisa-
tion association or body. ...” In South
Australia, the South Australian Industrial
Court cannot order preference to union-
ists on engagement. It goes further
because it is against the law there for
an employer to dismiss an employee
because he is not a trade unionist. How-
ever, a unionist can obtain “a voluntary
concession by an employer of preference
in the engagement of labor”.
Obviously our various forms of com-
pulsory unionism are here to stay.


STRAVINSKY
On his eightieth birthday, Stravinsky was
asked by Robert Craft to say a few words
benign, or at least printable about
some of the eminent conductors he has
known: Monteux, Ansermet, Koussevitsky,
Goossens, whose names are associated with
early performances of Stravinsky's music;
Mengelberg, Furtwangler, Bruno Walter,
with whom he has appeared as piano
soloist; Stokowski and Bernstein, who have
performed his works in America; Beecham
and Mitropoulos, who were his personal
friends. Stravinsky replies below.
Benign? 1 cannot go about compos-
ing testimonials, if that is what
you mean, and conductors as a
whole do exasperate me. To most of
them the really important part of con-
ducting is the gesture: how many scores
have I seen with red-circled cymbal cues
and no other marks.
Worst of all, conductors’ “careers” are
only secondarily determined by an ability
to project music. Every member of an
orchestra knows that a conductor may
be less well equipped for his work than
the least of his players, but whereas
orchestras quickly discover this, the
society women who indirectly hire con-
ductors may never know. The successful
conductor may or may not be an incom-
plete musician but he must be a corn-
pleat angler.
And since the conductor’s work is
mostly repetition, he often develops a
deep occupational indifference to music.
He is a social parasite, too, in that he
lives on the creations of others; and the
typical conductor is a delinquent, since
he is rarely able to follow the creative
musical ideas of his own age—or perhaps
arriviste is a better word, for he cannot
progress, since that would mean to
abandon something that has already sold
very well
The conductor is also pandered to and
publicised out of all relation to his use-
fulness in the musical community, with
the result that he is encouraged to impose
a purely egotistical and therefore arbitrary
and false authority. “Great” conductors,
like “great” actors, are too often unable
to play anything but themselves.
Some of these splenetic remarks are
to be blamed on a recording of the
Brahms First Symphony I have just tried
to play but could not because the second
beats of the 6/8 movement are so
delayed that the time signature should be
corrected to 61/8. The conductor would
call the distortion emphasis, no doubt,
though it is only hideous exaggeration:
and expressive freedom, though the natu-
ral rhythmic vitality of the music is
vitiated. What one hears is not Johannes
Brahms but the uninteresting emotional
adventures of Mr X in Johannes Brahms.
★ ★ ★
I performed my piano concerto under
Furtwangler’s direction in Leipzig and in
Berlin. He conducted it very badly,
worse even than Koussevitsky at the
premiere. I was surprised by this because
other musicians of his generation, and
of an older generation still, had con-
ducted it without difficulty: Frederick
Stock, for instance, who supplied an
impeccable accompaniment for me in
Chicago in 1925. Unfortunate, too, was
the fact that Arnold Schoenberg attended
the Furtwangler Berlin performance.
A few years after it, while on vaca-
tion in the Villa d’Este at Como, I
received a telegram from Furtwangler
requesting first performance rights to my
Capriccio. I replied that the piece had
already been played 20 times —this was
in 1931—but that he was welcome to
play it for the twenty-first. I blame his
telegram—and my less than perfect
sobriety—for a misdemeanour that has
troubled my conscience ever since. That
night, walking between a pair of “Greek”
statues on one of the garden paths of
the Villa I saw that the marble figures
were covered with tourists’ signatures.
I therefore took a pen myself and
scrawled WILHELM VON DER FURT-
WANGLER on the gluteus maximus of
a most obviously ersatz Apollo.
★ ★ ★
My memories of Mengelberg are also
not among the most deeply cherished.
The conductor of the Concertgebouw
was fractious and morbidly dependent
on flattery. At the first rehearsal of my
Capriccio he began to conduct in an
impossible tempo. I protested that I was
unable to play it at that speed, but I
should have specified for he could not
tell whether I had meant he was too
fast or too slow.
He flustered and embarked on a self-
justifying oration: “Gentlemen, in my
50 years of conducting I think I have


learned to recognise the proper tempo
of a piece of music, but Monsieur
Stravinsky would like us to play like
this—tick, tick, tick, tick—” and he
cocked his forefinger to mock Herr
Malzel’s very useful invention.
But Mengelberg was always a speech-
maker, an after-dinner Demosthenes of
impressive volubility and sustaining
power. I remember a dinner in Amster-
dam honoring Respighi. Mengelberg
delivered the toast, but glancing at me
somewhere toward the tenth coda of it
and finding me staring at my watch he
pronounced my name at the climactic
moment instead of Respighi’s. Mengel-
berg was not wicked, of course, or un-
generous or totally devoid of musician-
ship. He was simply not top-drawer.
00000
I met Otto Klemperer in the early
1920 s in, I think, Dresden or Leipzig.
He was regarded as the most skilful of
the younger German conductors, and as
the most sympathetically devoted to con-
temporary composers, a reputation he
upheld throughout the 1920 s as well as
in his first American years. Klemperer
was sometimes guilty of erratic tempi,
but his musical impulses were usually
amazingly right.
Klemperer, the man, was a profoundly
droll character, though one could never
be certain that drollery, in fact, was what
he intended. For example, when I last
saw him, a year ago, he greeted me
with: “And how is Madame Soudeikine?”
00000
The performance of my piano con-
certo with Bruno Walter, in Paris in the
late 19205, was an unanticipated pleasure.
I had not expected this “Romantiker”
from a vergangenen generation to be able
to count my scrambled metres, but they
gave him no trouble, and he followed
me as nimbly as anyone with whom I
ever played the piece. (I, on the other
hand, could never have conducted any of
“his” music.)
We saw each other next in New York
in 1935, and after that in Hollywood,
where we were neighbors for 20 years.
Our temperaments and musical devoirs
could not have been more unlike, of
course, but we were finally in some way
drawn together, if only because octo-
genarians come to regard each other as
counterpieces in an elimination game.
Walter came to see me a few weeks
before his death with an invitation, in
the name of the Vienna Philharmonic, to
conduct in Salzburg. I called him before
his visit, aware that he had been ill,
and offered to come to him instead, but
he would not have it that way. He was
animated and warm at that last meeting,
and, as always, almost laboriously gentle.
We talked about Mahler, we talked
about Tchaikovsky’s operas, and he told
me of his impressions of Russia during
a trip there in the 1920 s to conduct
Pique Dame. We also talked about
Rudolph Steiner. Bruno Walter was not a
product of a dialectic culture and he was
therefore not as critical as I am about
that sort of thing.
As we parted I expressed my regret
that I would have to wait a long time
for his Fidelio recording. He said he
hoped I would hear it one day, but this
day will not come. Shortly afterwards he
lay in his home, the “he” still incarnate,
as Steiner would have it. On the wall
above his coffin was a framed invitation
to Beethoven’s funeral.
00000
I cannot add anything about Pierre
Monteux except to say that of all con-
ductors his signals were the clearest to
the orchestra and the least for the benefit
of the audience. I saw Monteux rarely,
if at all, between The Nightingale pre-
miere and over mutual years in Cali-
fornia. When we met again in San Fran-
cisco in 1939 I was amazed to find him
looking not an hour older than when I
last saw him.
Diaghilev had been equally amazqd, I
remember, by Monteux’s extraordinary
physique:
“Probahlement il fait Vamour tres hien
parce que les dames Vaiment beaucoup,
mais comment avec ce ventre?”
00000
I met Serge Koussevitsky in company
with Scriabin at Rimsky-Korsakov’s, in
1905 or 1906, and when I first saw him
conduct I think the music was Scriabin’s
Poerne de L’Extase —at any rate, I have
a clear memory of Scriabin at rehearsals
of that piece bobbing up and down to
whisper to the conductor, who I think
was Koussevitsky. 1 knew Koussevitsky
well only after Scriabin’s death, from
1919, in fact, when he became my
publishei for the second time with the
orchestra score of Pulcinella. (I had
already sold the vocal score to an English
firm.)
My first audition of Koussevitsky in my
own music was his calamitous London
performance of the Symphonies of Wind
Instruments. He came to see me in
Biarritz after that, to mend relations and
to invite me to conduct my Octuor in
one of his Paris concerts. Twenty years
later he commissioned my Ode in
memory of his wife, Natalie. Madame
Koussevitsky was a gentlewoman who,
unfortunately and belyingly, looked like
an irate hen. She was extremely pious—
a character for Mauriac, in fact—and
she adored Koussevitsky.
The Ode performance was a catas-
trophe. Two systems of score from the
final page had been erroneously copied
as one. They were played that way, too,
and my simple triadic piece concluded in
a cacophony that would now win me new
esteem at Darmstadt. This sudden change
in harmonic style did not excite Kousse-
vitsky’s suspicion, however, and some
years later he actually confided to me
that he preferred “the original version”.
Another disaster was that the trumpet
player misread the key of his instrument
in the third piece and failed to transpose
so that chords of, let us say, d-o-mi-sol
came out as chords of do-re-sol. But
Koussevitsky was personally generous,
and he did more than any conductor to
help composers financially.
00000
Ernest Ansermet introduced himself tp
me in a street in Clarens one day in
1911 and invited me to his home for
dinner. Though I had heard of him as
a schoolmaster and amateur musician, his
appearance—the beard —gave me a start;
I thought he might be someone masque-
rading as the Charlatan in Petroushka.
I accepted the dinner invitation, and
when I came to his house I found my
scores with Debussy’s and Ravel’s on
prominent display. (But Ansermet was
always like that. On a visit to his house
in Geneva in 1951 I discovered that my
photograph had been put on the wall
and that Bartok’s had been temporarily
removed: when I commended Bartok’s
music, to Ansermet’s apparent surprise,
he withdrew to fetch a photograph of the
Hungarian master and found it, framed,
in a drawer on top of a pile of under-
wear.)
Shortly after that first dinner he be-
came the conductor of the Montreux
Kursaal orchestra. He looked very
Kursaal: un drole de figure. We encoun-
tered each other next in the home of the
chanson composer Henri Duparc, a
morose gentleman who lived in retirement
near Clarens. (I should also mention that
about this same time I met the Geneva
composer Ernest Bloch. I saw Bloch
often in my first years in Switzerland, and
again many years later in Portland,
Oregon. Bloch was an enthusiastic type
of man —a monologue in fact.)
In 1914, when Pierne and Monteux
left the Russian Ballet, I recommended
Ansermet to Diaghilev, which is how his
career began. I was on very close terms
with Ansermet in the 1920 s and 1930 sand,
and, in fact, until 1946 when he began


to criticise my revised versions of earlier
pieces (though he had been the first to
perform the revised Firebird and Night-
ingale music in 1919) and when he be-
came much addicted to a priori argu-
ments against the more interesting types
of new music, finally even writing a book
to prove that he cannot hear it.
But in spite of that 1 am very fond
of him and I cannot forget the many
merry hours we have shared together.
I remember that one evening after we
had drunk a bottle of framboise together
he pretended to be a dog and began
barking like one, under my studio piano
in the Salle Pleyel. It was a most con-
vincing performance.
00000
Leopold Stokowski came to see me in
Biarritz in 1922 with a prodigious mone-
tary offer for first American perfor-
mance rights to my future works. He
actually paid an instalment on this sum,
in fact, though he must have had after-
thoughts about the agreement as I did not
hear from him again until Persephone,
which he also wished to introduce in
America.
I attended a Stokowski concert in
Carnegie Hall in 1935 or 1937. It was
une singerie remarquable, but I went
backstage at intermission to greet him.
I saw him again in 1942 in Hollywood,
when he came to study my Symphony
in C with me, before conducting it with
the NBC Symphony. Few people have
done as much to gain a hearing for con-
temporary composers as Stokowski, and
perhaps no one ever built a better
orchestra.
00000
I hardly knew Sir Thomas Beecham
as a conductor, but I did know his in-
comparable personal generosity. At the
beginning of the 1914 war he sent me
2500 Swiss francs to help me in the
event of my isolation from Russia. The
money came like manna and it paid my
mother’s passage back to Russia by the
only route still open, the boat from
Brindisi to Odessa. Beecham was my
’first friend among English musicians and
he was, first and last, the most spirited.
We continued to see each other in
later years, and we were always friends
—in spite of, or more likely because of—
the fact that we never shared a concert
together and I never heard him perform
any of my music. We often met in
America during the 1940 s and I recall
with pleasure two particularly lively
evenings in his company, one in New
York with Percy Grainger, the other in
Mexico.
00000
But two others of my now mourned
English conductor friends were Edward
Clark and Sir Eugene Goossens. Clark
was perhaps the only English musician
who understood the true importance of
the Schoenberg school from its begin-
nings and when, some day, his efforts on
its behalf at the BBC are made known
English musical history will receive a
surprise. Clark was one of my closest
friends and I wept a few weeks ago
when he died.
ooooo
Goossens, too, was a natural musician
from a family of born musicians. He had
a very good understanding of my music
and a mastery of orchestral practice.
I remember especially his brilliant per-
formance of Le Sacre in London in
1921, and Diaghilev's jealous rage at the
triumph which was not his.
ooooo
Mitropoulos had conducted Petro-
ushka and Histoire du Soldat but he was
not generally interested in my music. I
was surprised, therefore, when he came
to call on me in Hollywood one summer
evening in 1944 or 1945. His manner
of speech—he addressed me in French
mixed with a few words of Slavonic—as
well as his nervous and wobbly athletic
movements, immediately endeared him
to me. We talked about the Orthodox
Church, and he seemed much interested
in my collection of icons.
The next day, in that cross-section of
the super-womb, Hollywood Bowl, I
heard him conduct and play, with amaz-
ing virtuosity, Prokofiev’s Third Con-
certo. Mitropoulos was gentle, humble,
lovable. I was profoundly moved by his
death.
OOOOO
Leonard Bernstein came to see me
in the Sherry Netherlands Hotel one day
in 1945. His visit was to have lasted
only a few minutes but it filled the entire
day: the young Bernstein was one of the
most attractive, most intelligent, most
articulate, and most readily likeable
people I have ever met. (He is still all
of these things, and he is so gifted person-
ally as well as musically beyond the
routine “conductor” that probably he
should not be considered in this category
at all. He remains, as conductor, one of
the few who obviously still adores
music.)
Since then Mr Bernstein has become
rather well known. In fact, I would not
be surprised to hear of him conducting
several concerts at the same time, giving
an opening downbeat in Carnegie Hall,
then flying off to lead the first measures
of another concert in Lincoln Center,
and so on, while subordinates rush in and
bring the various pieces through to the
end.
A few days after our meeting in the
Sherry Netherlands Mr Bernstein invited
me to his performance of the Symphony
of Psalms. I went. WOW.


OVERSEAS
RIEN A PERDRE!
Deft dips into the Canadian pork barrel
From GODFREY HODGSON in Ottawa
npms country is drifting fast into econ-
■*" omic catastrophe and political crisis.
Its economic predicament demands
sophisticated analysis and firm deci-
sions. it is unlikely to get either as long
as Prime Minister Diefenbaker clings
to power only with the acquiescence of
M. Real Caouette and his Social Credit
Party who marched to triumph in the
Province of Quebec in the recent General
Election with the Jacobin motto, “Rien
a perdre” (“Nothing to lose”), on its
banners.
Caouette is a 44-year-old Chrysler
dealer from Rouvn. 350 miles north of
here, who can start mobs with his ora-
tory in English or French but who sin-
cerely believes in the crackpot economic
theories of the founder of Social Credit,
Major C. H. Douglas. No doubt the
peasants, shopkeepers and artisans of
rural and small-town Quebec the Pou-
jadistes of North America who follow
him had made up their minds that they
had nothing to gain from the Tories or
the Liberals: they sent an astonishing 26
Creditistes to Ottawa. But in fact Canada
has everything to lose from the present
situation.
In the first five months of this year
Canada’s reserves of gold and foreign
exchange fell by over $4OO million to
under $1,500 million.
Nobody knows how much they fell in
the first 17 days of June before the elec-
tion: informed guessers here and in
Montreal and Toronto financial houses
think it may have been as much as $250
million. And reserves are still falling.
Action is imperative indeed it is
overdue. The long and rough election
campaign took up precious time. On
Thursday the Government pushed the
Bill Rate and therefore, in Canada,
automatically the Bank Rate, too up
almost 1 per cent. There is no doubt
that money will have to get tighter still.
Even so, if may be necessary for
Canada to draw on the International
Monetary Fund. There are rumours that
Mr Louis Rasminsky, Governor of the
Bank of Canada, is about to leave for
Washington to negotiate a line of credit
with the Fund, of which he is a director.
Finally, there are those including
Cabinet Ministers who talk of the
need to devalue the Canadian dollar still
further.
New and Sinister Aspect of Deficit
The fall in reserves is accompanied
by a flight of capital. Foreigners, es-
pecially on the Continent, but also in
London and New York, are heavy net
sellers of Canadian securities and so are
Canadians themselves.
This capital flight is relatively small:
the net sale of Canadian securities was
$43 million for the first four months of
the year, but the outflow of capital is in
fact one of the keys to the problem.
Canada has a huge deficit on her current
account, both because she imports more
than she exports, and because of the
need to pay interest and dividends on
many billions of dollars of foreign in-
vestment in Canada.
There is nothing new about this de-
ficit: what is new and sinister is that it
is no longer balanced by the flow of new
investment into Canada.
To check the outflow of reserves with
which the deficit is made good the Gov-
ernment must push up interest rates: but
this may aggravate unemployment, which
is running at 5 per cent, this summer,
and could rise above 10 per cent, this
winter.
This is the broad fork of the Gov-
ernment's dilemma. It is aggravated by
the intimate connection - many Can-
adians would say subjection of the
economy to that of the United States.
On balance, no doubt, Canada has
benefited from this link. But in a myriad
way it complicates the present problem.
To name just some: because most of
Canada’s staple raw material exports
such as wheat are traded in the US
currency, devaluation would actually put
up the price of exports; because much
of the manufacturing industry is in the
hands of subsidiaries of US companies,
increasing exports is harder.
So much for the problem. Does John
Diefenbaker have the will, wisdom or
political resources to tackle it? There is
no doubt that he has the will to stay
in power to the last possible moment.
The way in which he announced “We
are still the Government of Canada,”
and lectured the Press on the longevity
of the Mackenzie King minority Govern-
ment in the ’twenties, left no doubt of
that. And he will be helped by two
sordid circumstances.
The first is that all parties are flat
broke after the gruelling campaign, said
to have cost the two major parties be-
tween $lO million and $l2 million. They
are therefore in no hurry to start again.
The second has to do with Rea! Caou-
ette’s ragged platoon of Creditistes.
These are, on the whole, poor humble
men. The 24 who are married have an
average of six children each: one is an
engineering apprentice, another a cafe
owner, another an electrician on the rail-
ways.
These are not men with years of ex-
perience, in working-class politics, either.
Many of them speak no English: their
official leader, Robert Thompson from
Red Deer, Alberta, chief of the western
rump of Social Credit he was made
leader instead of Caouette as the result
of a struggle between the Social Credit
Premiers of Alberta and British Colum-
bia speaks no French.


1 In short, Diefenbaker probably calcu-
• lates that Social Credit members will be
t divided, naive and awfully reluctant
: to part unduly soon with an MP’s salary
: of $lO,OOO a year.
i Mr Pearson wants Parliament to meet
in July to discuss the crisis. In fact, the
Prime Minister will probably not call it
until he runs out of money in Sep-
tember. And he will not hold an election
until he has to. Social Credit has
promised him support to run the
country. He will throw them some sops.
He may well give Canada a new flag,
without a trace of the Union Jack if
he can choose between 4,000 rival de-
signs.
Between the natural financial yearn-
ings of peres de famille and deft dips
in the pork barrel a causeway for
this province, a highway for that
Dief can stay chief for many months
yet. Whether he can tackle the economic
crisis or give confidence to a troubled
people who are not used to failure and
are unhappy about it is another matter.
The only grain of consolation is for
us. Between the devil of American for-
eign policy and the deep blue sea of Mr
Pearson's Liberals, it will be hard now
for the Prime Minister to huff much
or puff against Britain’s entry to the
Common Market. But that, seen from
here, is only the least of Canada’s worries.
/Tanadian voters have left the senior
Dominion in its most unsatis-
factory state since Confederation in
1867. They have returned a minority
Progressive Conservative Government
(118 seats), doubled the Liberal op-
position (96 seats), resurrected the
Social Credit Party (30 seats), which
has been defunct since 1958 on the
national scene, and doubled the rep-
resentation of the labor-socialist
amalgam New Democrats, (19 seats).
It was an election of surprises and
disappointments. The Socialist leader,
Mr T. C. Douglas, was personally
defeated, but some of his best men
won new seats for the party. The
Cabinet lost four members. Quebec,
with what one newspaper described
as Gallic drollery and another as
political ignorance, elected the
majority of the Social Credit mem-
bers.
Mr John Diefenbaker, the Conser-
vative Prime Minister, has hinted that
he will sit out the next five years
with the minority Government. He
may well be able to do so; the Social
Credit Party may help to keep him
there since they have most to fear
from another election. By a joint
handling of his legislative programme,
he can be assured of a majority with
the support of either the Socialists or
Social Credit for as long as he wishes.
MALI SNUBS MR K.
Twenty former colonial territories of Africa
want to join EEC
From NORA BELOFF in Moscow
|V/fR Khrushchev’s public denunciation
1 of the European Common Market
countries for alleged “neo-colonialism”
has received a stern though discreet
rebuff from the neutralist Government
of the small African State of Mali.
A few days after the Soviet leader
launched his diatribe, on the occasion of
a formal visit to Moscow by the Presi-
dent of Mali, the Mali Government sent
a new representative to Brussels who
informed the Six that his country wished
to extend its association with the
Common Market, when the provisional
arrangements expire at the end of this
year.
Some 20 former colonial territories,
one-fifth of the membership of the
United Nations, are now linked, or are
in the process of negotiating association
with the Six. If
Britain enters, the
British Government
has asked for similar
arrangements to be
extended to the
underde v e 1 o p e d
countries of the
Commonwealth.
Association entitles countries to re-
ceive preferential trade and economic
aid from the European Economic Com-
munity in return for certain trading ad-
vantages. But the underdeveloped asso-
ciates are allowed to preserve tariffs
against the Common Market, either to
protect their own infant industries or to
produce necessary sources of Govern-
ment revenue. It is, therefore, financially
better for the developing countries to
go in than stay out.
The Six have agreed to associate the
African and Caribbean members of the
Commonwealth but excluded the Asian
Big Three: India, Pakistan and Ceylon.
These were felt to be altogether too big
to fit into associated status, and special
arrangements for their trade and aid are
being discussed in Brussels between the
Six and Britain.
Meanwhile, several Commonwealth
countries, notably Ghana, have echoed
Mr Khrushchev’s criticism of the Six as
“neo-colonialist” —i.e. intending to pre-
serve African dependence on a European
metropolis. President Nkrumah has re-
peatedly asserted that the “association”
of African States with an enlarged
European Economic Community would
be incompatible with political indepen-
dence.
A similar line of argument was devel-
oped in the recent British House of
Commons debate by the Opposition
Labor leader, Mr Hugh Gaitskell. He
urged the Lord Privy Seal, Mr Edward
Heath, to get the Community to abolish
the special status of “association” alto-
gether.
The Europeans argue that this is im-
possible and that their own African as-
sociates are insisting the loudest that
special links are indispensable. A mem-
ber of the European Commission, hand-
ling the negotiations with the Africans
on behalf of the Six, said that France’s
former dependencies need preferences
and assistance to tide them over until
they have had a
chance to diversify
their economy and
modernise t h eir
methods of produc-
tion in order to
compete in world
markets.
Most of the Euro-
peans devoutly hope that the arrange-
ments will only be provisional; perhaps
for five or ten years after which they
will be replaced by world agreements
on marketing tropical products. The
French seem to feel there is some
political asset in preserving special
relationship with their former posses-
sions, but the other Europeans regard
Africa as an inescapable liability.
In any case, the Six will not impose
any political conditions on their pros-
pective associates: there will be no
political strings attached to the aid and
preferences, and the Mali representative
has already been told there will be no
pressure on his country to depart from
its neutralist foreign policy. In this
respect, the Europeans intend to imitate
the British Commonwealth rather than
the French Community: associated
States will be free to make their own
foreign policy and defence arrangements.
The Europeans do not rule out that,
under this provision, they may also nego-
tiate a special associate status for what
used to be French North Africa:
Morocco, Tunisia and Algeria, when the
present troubles are over.


LAOS - SITUATION NORMAL?
Now that peace has been restored Laotians can
return to their traditional cultivation of opium
From DENNIS BLOODWORTH in Singapore
l[ow that Laos is to be unified under
**■" a coalition Government and peace
has been restored, the wives of the Meo
tribesmen of the north Laotian uplands
will once more be trekking down to the
markets in the plains to barter their ag-
ricultural produce for cloth and salt.
The agricultural produce of the Meos
consists of one cash crop opium.
Opium does not figure in the official
trading statistics of Vientiane, but it is,
nevertheless, the country’s biggest source
of revenue, for in the Far East the large
white flowers of the opium poppy bloom
above all in the wild hills that run from
South-west China through the Shan
States of Burma into northern Laos. The
opium, pressed in the spring from the
poppy’s unripe capsules, is sold in the
villages of the flatlands to the south,
smuggled into Thailand and Vietnam,
and from there distributed throughout
the world by international dope rings.
There are signs that business is brisk.
In the past few days £lOO,OOO worth of
Laotian opium has been found in three
parked cars in a Saigon suburb, a card-
board beer case containing 12,000
grammes of heroin has been seized by
the Thai police, and in North-west
Thailand some 3.000 lb. of raw opium
was discovered concealed in the roof of
a bus.
This traffic until a few years ago
at least tolerated by the Governments of
several States in this region is now
officially illegal in all of them. In Korea
a man may be sentenced to death for
drug smuggling, in Hong Kong he risks
life imprisonment for processing opium.
The narcotics police of President Ngo
Dinh Diem and Premier Sarit Thanarat
have raided and closed hundreds of
opium dens in Vietnam and Thailand re-
spectively, and burned all the pipes they
have been able to confiscate. The Gov-
ernment of Formosa has recently
smashed a major smuggling organisation
and detained all but three of its opera-
tives, and increased vigilance has led to
more arrests in Japan.
In Macao the price of heroin (de-
rived from opium via morphine) has
gone up from approximately £7BO to
£B7O a pound, and a fall in demand has
meanwhile brought that of opium down.
But while those fighting the drug traffic
throughout the area can claim some
successes, the problem of stopping it is
enormous.
There are nearly 60,000 opium addicts
in Burma, more than 70,000 in Laos.
The British authorities have announced
a decrease in the number in Hong Kong
since 1960 but the 1960 figure was
150,000. The Governments of China
and North Vietnam have introduced
draconian measures in order to stamp
out addiction in their own countries, but
the Marxists have more flexible morals
when it comes to exporting “foreign
mud” to the capitalist world outside.
At the Geneva conference of the UN
Narcotics Commission, which ended
earlier this month, the American dele-
gate, Mr Harry Anslinger, declared that
the drug traffic from South-west China
was increasing, and that heavily-laden
opium caravans of up to 200 mules were
regularly crossing into Burma and Thai-
land. Both in 1960 and 1961 it was esti-
mated that more than 85 per cent, of all
opium seized in Singapore had come
from the Communist Chinese province
of Yunnan, or from the neighboring hills
of Burma and Laos.
The opium den or “smoking saloon”
is still a feature of every city in South-
east Asia. Plush, workaday, or bare and
sordid, the dens cater for everybody
from the tourist to the rickshaw coolie.
The scene is, in essentials, always much
the same. The smoker stretches out on
a low wooden bed, while his gentle,
emaciated host or an assistant
crouches at his feet, teases a pill of
opium on the end of a needle held over
a small lamp, and then applies it to a
membrane on the body of the pipe.
With the opium still held over the
flame, the smoker puts his mouth to the
end of the clarinet-like pipe and draws
the smoke down into his lungs, if pos-
sible, with one long intake of breath.
The pipe crepitates for perhaps ten
seconds, the sickly, butterscotch smell
of opium fills the room, and then the
pill is exhausted. The smoker lies back,
feeling relaxed, at peace. He is five or
ten shillings out of pocket and one step
nearer to becoming like the skeletal
figure at his feet.
An amateur at this game may smoke
four, six, or even eight pipes in an
evening. But the addict will get through
30 or 50 a day, and in the cheap dives
where the dregs of the drug are sold the
doomed and skinny breadwinners of half-
starved families fritter away on the pipe
of oblivion the little money they can still
earn by day pedalling a cycle rick-
shaw, cleaning the streets, working on
the docks until they are too weak and
fuddled for any kind of labor.
One of the problems before Prince
Souvanna Phouma, Prime Minister of
the new coalition Government of Laos,
is that the economy of his country is so
closely linked however unofficially
•—with the cultivation and sale of this
source of so much misery and ruin.
TALKING OVER
THE WALL
From ROBERT STEPHENS
HThere is growing concern in White-
A hall about increasing tension along
the Berlin Wall and inside Eastern
Germany.
Recent incidents along the Wall, in
which East German border troops and
police have shot at escaping refugees
and have had their fire returned by West
German police, have roused strong
emotions among the West Berliners.
They are also evidence of powerful but
suppressed feelings among the East
German population who see themselves
shut into a State they detest.
British officials believe the Russians
share Western concern about this
dangerous state of affairs. They interpret
the recent Russian Note to the Western
Powers after a series of Berlin incidents,
protesting against alleged aggressive and
“revanchist” activities in West Berlin, as
partly a warning to the East Germans.
The Soviet Note warned that if
incidents continued they might have to
take appropriate measures to fulfil their
obligations towards their East German
allies. It is believed in London that the
“appropriate measures” refer as much to
the East Germans as to the Western
Powers.


FORUM
THE POPULATION
EXPLOSION
The hard facts
By E. J. DONATH
JiV addition to the Cold War we shall have to endure for the next
twenty-five years the economic, social and political implications of
the “population explosion
Mankind’s greatest achievement
death control —has become our greatest
danger; over the larger part of the world,
the death rate is now less than 20 per
thousand. Reductions in the rate of
deaths which took place over 100 years in
Europe, are now taking place in other
areas within a few years. In many parts
of Asia, Latin America, and in some
parts of Africa, death rates today are
only half as high as they were 20 years
ago within two decades death rates
were cut down by 50 per cent.
This wonderful decline in the death
rate is unique in the history of man-
kind. Remarkable progress in medical
facilities and improvements in public
hygiene in many of the so-called back-
ward countries have reduced infant
mortality dramatically, and lengthened
the life span of these people by many
years; however, most of the women still
bear as many children as they physio-
logically can. In fact, in some countries
the birth rate has even increased as a
result of improved health conditions. A
very high birth rate and a low death
rate sustained over a few decades must
certainly lead to a population explosion.
Japan is the only country, apart from
Europe, North America, Australia and
New Zealand, where the people have
gained control over both deaths and
births. While it is comparatively easy to
be successful in death control, the matter
of birth control seems to be far more
complicated.
During the next 20 years we shall
witness an unprecedented increase in
world population, and especially in some
of our neighbouring south - eastern
countries of the Near North. Lord
Casey stated recently that “the enormous
population growth of the world was only
just behind nuclear destruction as a
menace to the human race”.
In all European countries, including
those of southern Europe, the annual
increase of population is well below one
per cent.; in India it is 2.4 per cent., and
in many countries it is well above three
per cent.; in Laos, for instance, it is 3.7
per cent. This means that European
countries will double their population in
over 80 years, India in 29 years, and
many countries, such as Malaya, Syria,
Venezuela, Sudan, Australian New
Guinea, etc., will have twice the number
they have today by 1985, or even before.
Can Governments in these countries,
and in Indonesia, South Vietnam, Philip-
pines, Thailand, Ceylon—only to give a
few more examples—bring about the
economic miracle of doubling the pro-
duction of their countries in two decades?
And even, if they could achieve this
miracle the people in these countries
would be no better off than they are
today! Since there seems to be going
through the world the “revolution of
rising expectations”, there must be great
repercussions if the people in these very
poor countries will be even poorer in the
middle of the eighties!
About 100 years ago population
growth in Asia was 0.4 per cent, a year,
but during the last 40 years of this
century Asia’s population increased by
about 60 per cent. —at an annual rate
of one and a half per cent. However, in
the next 40 years Asia’s increase in
population is expected to be 150 per
cent. Asia’s population will increase from
1600 million to almost 4,000,000,000.
This means that Asia alone will have
almost 1,000,000,000 people more than
the whole world has today!
Unfortunately, a discussion of the
coming “population explosion”, that is a
discussion of the problems of the next
twenty or thirty years, is very often made
unrealistic by the introduction of the old
Malthusian query of whether and when
the earth will not be able to feed its ever
increasing millions. Estimates of the
maximum feeding capacity of the earth
vary from 16,000 million to 30,000
million (Colin Clark). These numbers will
not be reached within a time for which
we can possibly visualise living condi-
tions, even if the increase of the world
population continues at the present rate —
and doubles before the end of the
century. The maximum feeding capacity
of the earth is an interesting problem of
speculation, but practical people would
like to know how large parts of Latin
America, Africa and Asia could possibly
double their food production or their
national income within the next two or
three decades. If this economic miracle
is not possible, will the underdeveloped
parts of the world have to follow Japan’s
example of keeping the numbers down?
What is the alternative? Recently, Sir
John Crawford said that “unless an
economic break-through was made in the
next few years the inflated growth of
populations probably would lead to social
and political disruption on a wide scale
before 1980.”
Surprisingly, there are a great number
of optimists who claim that the slogan
of a coming population explosion is highly
exaggerated, and has become a “hardy
annual” since 1798 when the Rev. T. R.
Malthus wrote his famous “Essay on the
principles of population, as it affects the
future improvement of society.” But here
are a few facts and figures to show that
the present situation has never occurred
before in the history of mankind.
Every week the world population
increases by over one million, and such
an increase has never happened in the
history of mankind; the present annual
rate of increase is 1.8 per cent., and this
is unprecedented for the world popula-
tion. A hundred years ago the popula-
tion of the world increased annually at
0.8 per cent., and soon the increase will
be over two per cent. At the beginning
of this century the world population was
about 1500 million; today it is double,
about 3000 million. It took about 60
years to double the world’s population in
this century but it will take less than 40
years to double it again. It has taken
200,000 years to reach a world popula-
tion of 3000 million but it will take less
than 40 years to add another 3000
million. The fantastic increase of nearly
1500 million in the first half of this
century, and the practically sure increase
of 3000 million in the seond half of this


century, is a phenomenon that has never
happened in any century before.
The fastest growing population in the
world today is in Latin America, with an
average annual increase of well over
three per cent, as compared with an
increase of 1.8 per cent, for the world.
This means that 16 of the 20 Latin
American republics will double their
population in less than 20 years. Popula-
tion in most of our neighboring south-
east Asian countries increases at an
annual rate of over two per cent, and in
some parts even up to four per cent.; the
Indian population in Fiji will double their
numbers in the next 17 years. What a
gigantic task ahead of the Governments
of Latin America and South-East Asia
to organise their economies in such a way
wmCh will prevent a drop in the already
deplorably low standard of living!
Many Asian countries have up to 50
per cent, of their population in the age
group of under 16 years as compared
with 27 per cent, in Australia; these
young people will swell the work force in
the years to come, but where will they
find employment? From where will food,
clothing and shelter for these fast-grow-
ing populations come? And numbers are
sure to increase because death has be-
come a declining factor in the control of
the growth of populations. But death
control without birth control might turn
out to be a pyrrhic victory for large parts
of the globe.
What is the solution to the problem?
Fertility and mortality used to control
the growth of populations; fortunately,
mortality has lost its controlling influence,
and only the annual number of births of
each nation affects the rate of natural
increase. Thus fertility must be brought
under control. The challenge of a
coming population explosion must be met
by world-wide family planning.
A BLIND MAN SPEAKS
"Seeing Eye Dogs and scented gardens are ridiculous“
By P. R. EMERTON
As a blind adult, I am in a position
■*•*■ to discuss some of the real problems
we encounter. Society is designed for the
sighted this is obvious. Yet the blind
expect, and the public still believes,
that our needs are realistically under-
stood. The truth is that the blind are
squeezed into a shape approximating the
sighted citizen. We are to be seen with
our symbols white stick, dark glasses
and now, as the cross of a patient lab-
rador, desperately trying to fit the
socially desirable image.
It should be known that the blind are
being conditioned into a state of indi-
vidual worthlessness. We are dependent
upon the goodwill of the community,
and we receive it. This goodwill will
not stretch far, for the blind can be-
come an embarrassment if we are ser-
iously considered. Being aware of this
potential menace, the authorities have
introduced measures calculated to con-
fuse the majority of blind adults, and
to confound the few intelligent, gifted
people who could dignify the blind.
If you are in normal health it is
possible to preserve some measure of
self assertion. The blind, however, are
traditionally charges on the public con-
science. The Commonwealth Govern-
ment has the responsibility of assisting
us. Up to a point it does. A blind adult
receives an invalid pension and, as a
comforter, one free radio and tele-
vision licence. Prosperous times have
enabled the Government to release us
from the Means Test.
Yet consider: The Department of
Social Services maintains a modern re-
habilitation centre at Mount Wilga. De-
partmental statements indicate satisfac-
tion with the scheme. This centre w r as
erected three years ago and this year
upwards of 200 people are receiving
treatment and training, the intention be-
ing to return handicapped people to a
normal or near-normal way of life. All
people in receipt of a Commonwealth
pension are eligible for training ex-
cept the blind.
When a senior officer of the Social
Services and Rehabilitation Department
tells me that two blind citizens have re-
ceived some training and that one is re-
ceiving tuition in the Spanish guitar, I
feel sick with the memory of the young
blind people that I have met lately, and
angry and disgusted with the authorities
that deliberately allow blind youngsters
to take up Commonwealth scholarships.
They are grateful and determined to suc-
ceed, aware that they are dependent
upon family or friends, and believe that
their success will enable them to repay
a little of the debt they feel they owe
society for being blind.
A number of blind university gradu-
ates are living around Sydney. They are
not being enticed away from the Com-
monwealth and State Departments who
we know desperately need trained
people. Private enterprise is not attract-
ing them with high salaries. The answer
to this riddle is that diplomas and de-
grees are not sufficient to gain employ-
ment. Cannot the various departments
take a little trouble and advise those car-
ing for blind children that a literal in-
terpretation of policies would be rash,
and that when the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment grants you a scholarship on in-
tellectual ability it does not follow that
you can gain permanent employment in,
say, the Public Service, for the blind can-
not pass the medical examination? Once
more you are obliged to “understand the
difficulties”. You are referred to the
Public Service - Casual and Temporary
Category, with all the built-in barrier to
equality no superannuation, no pen-
sion, no Appeal Tribunal. We blind
people are working in some departments
as casuals and, if we protest, we are
easily parried by our own eagerness to
inflate a hope into a rumour that wind
of change is on the way.
According to one departmental officer
“the rehabilitation of the blind is
our greatest problem”. So great, in fact,
that not one person can be accounted
for. The blind fare little better in in-
dustry, for how can you expect a busi-
nessman to employ a blind person w'ho
has had no training in the most routine
tasks. Yet the Government constantly
urges industry to absorb and profit by
our reliability.
Consider our position. Unless we have
work, the pension without the Means
Test is worthless. We cannot use our
free television licence for it is impos-
sible to save £lOO on a pension of
£5/5/- per week. Hire purchase? Ap-
proach a company for any article you
can think of. It may be a building block,
or all that would constitute a furnished
home a regular income is the key to
hire purchase and decent living.
Ridiculous enterprises are currently
working towards providing seeing eye
dogs for the blind. The expense of
maintaining this establishment is pro-
hibitive — over £5OO per dog. If the
blind person is in regular employment
the animal could be of use in guiding
the owner to work. However, without a
post to fill, exercising and feeding the
animal would make it a liability.
The Fragrance .Garden is a case of
demonstrating the waste of money and
effort that could have been avoided if
a moment’s thought had been given. Can
any reasonable person believe that a
blind man would make his way through
Sydney’s traffic to spend a pleasant hour
in the sylvan depths of William Street?
•The Royal Blind Society, however, be-
lieves that such gardens as these help to
solve the problems of the sightless.
If we are to receive any real help, let
the dogs and the scented gardens wait
until blind people have secure employ-
ment and opportunities to express their
views on all matters of public interest,
particularly their own destinies.


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
THE KIMBERLEYS
KIM DURACK
Sir,
It is interesting to read the informative
article by Peter Coleman in The Bul-
letin (June 16), “North West Passage
to Rice and Riches”. In the Kimberleys
real progress has been made with agri-
cultural experiments over the past few
years with emphasis on commercial rice
production in particular.
However, it would seem that the hand
of big business may still prevail. With
State and Murrumbidgee rice interests in
control, it is possible that the small man
may find difficulty in benefiting from
such schemes despite grandiose plans
and the development of a system where-
by farming applicants are to be enabled
to establish themselves on the rice areas.
It is surely important that the individual
should prosper, not just the organisation
and the area.
In Peter Coleman’s article the history
of the development on the Ord and Fitz-
roy Rivers was accurately traced. How-
ever it is evident that the “real pioneer”
did not receive sufficient recognition.
There was one scant reference to Kim
Durack as having carried out successful
experiments with rice and safflower
on a tributary of the Fitzroy River
whilst working with Associated Rural
Industries.
In the North anyone knows that the
real force and drive behind this whole
scheme and organisation and control
were directly attributable to Kim Durack
and that in regard to initiation of agri-
cultural development in the Kimberleys,
his name stands out above all others.
He was in the picture long before the
stage of rice experiments in the Fitzroy.
Reference is made to the old agricultural
research station on the Ord River, es-
tablished in 1941. It was Kim Durack
who, almost single-handed, successfully
ran the station for many years.
Not only was he responsible for man-
agement but he also originated the idea
of the research station and chose the
site. He carried on a personal crusade
both at State and Federal levels, des-
pite opposition and lack of support, until
he finally “sold” or “forced” the scheme
on a grudging State Government. Such
was the lack of real support even then
that the Research Station obtained its
appropriations through other sources and
was not really accepted as an official
project.
Despite almost insuperable difficulties
Kim Durack advanced the station
throughout the war when it was diffi-
cult enough to maintain a project any-
where let alone inside the battle line.
Unlike that of some others, his en-
thusiasm, faith in the country and tire-
lessness never faltered and he brought
the station to the stage where it not
only received official support but was
taken over jointly by the West Austra-
lian State Government and the CSIRO,
the most august body of scientific re-
search in Australia.
it was Kim Durack who first per-
sonally surveyed if not discovered the
great site of the Ord River dam where
the mighty waters of the Ord are re-
stricted by a gorge where they break
through the impressive barrier of the
Carboyd Ranges. It was he who in-
duced Mr R. J. Dumas, the Director
of Works in Western Australia, to in-
spect this gorge with a view to damming
it for power and irrigation. It was
Durack who, in a tropic summer, con-
ducted the Director through this gorge.
This inspection was nearly Dumas’
last as he collapsed from heat and
exhaustion and was carried back to
the little research station at Carlton
Reach where fortunately he recovered.
Whether in spite of or because of his
experiences, the imagination of the
Director of Works was captured by the
scheme and he has since worked for its
implementation.
The little oasis at Carlton Reach with
Kim Durack in charge was the mecca
■of all scientific and engineering
parties who visited the North from 1941-
44. It was accepted that it was his idea
and his spirit which conceived and fos-
tered this station and with limited means
achieved such remarkable success.
W. A. DURACK
Toowoomba (Queensland).
PROUD “TOUCH OF THE TAR”?
Sir,
From his article, “North-West Passage
to Rice and Riches” (Bulletin, June 16),
it would appear that Peter Coleman’s
observation or information was at fault
regarding a “proud ‘touch of the tar’ ”
in a few of the older pastoral families of
the Kimberley district. This, he tells us,
dates back to the early days when there
were no white women in the district, but
although the color has now been bred out
it remains a matter of pride, like a splash
of the Red Indian in certain American
families.
I am at a loss to think of any instance
in which this applies among the type of
families to which the writer obviously
refers. It would be a wholesome attitude,
certainly, if the premise was correct, but
Kimberley social history does not happen
to have developed in this way. Neither
my memory nor recent on-the-spot
research can bring to light any marriages
between black or even half-caste women
and members of the early landholding
families. Casual, and sometimes more
permanent alliances did occur in a
number of instances and these resulted in
half-caste offspring, a few bearing their
fathers’ names but more often otherwise.
I can recall two instances in which
station owners who never married white
left both their names and small sums of
money (probably all they had to leave) to
their half-caste children. Their estates,
however, passed into other hands and
their children married into the colored
or the white proletariat population. No
half-caste or even part-colored offspring
of a substantial pioneering landholder
ever married white to pass on a stake in
the land with the recognition of Abori-
ginal blood.
Of more recent years a few of the
colored daughters of the country, mostly
mission educated and with considerable
pride and dignity, have married white
landholders of a less substantial but
hardy vintage and are rearing families
that proudly enough acknowledge their
Aboriginal heritage. This and a more
open attitude among older established
families to the possibility of their relation-
ship (seldom fully established) with
colored residents, may be taken as signs
that the colored people are slowly coming
into their own in Kimberley. The fact
remains, however, that no members of
this generation who inherited a share of
the original pastoral properties and with
it a conventional social standing in the
community, can boast of any Aboriginal
blood.
MARY DURACK
Nedlands (WA).
GOOD ON YOU SPORT!
Sir,
Oh! the irony of the final paragraph of
your article by Discus (Bulletin, June
16).
Although the article intended to
explode the popular opinion that Aus-
tralia is a great sporting Nation, your
writer was powerless to prevent himself
from advocating that the free advice of
Sporting Writers should be availed upon
in order to remedy the lack of drawing
power to sports meetings and, in particu-
lar, to the annual Games of the New
South Wales Highland Society.
Your writer will no doubt be interested
to know that, several weeks before the
article appeared in your magazine, the
New South Wales Highland Society
publicly announced that the Highland
Games held annually in Sydney had now
been abandoned indefinitely owing to the
huge loss sustained by the Society as a
result of the “new” approach to the
public.
R. L. PRITCHARD
(Assistant Secretary, Sydney
Thistle Highland Pipe Band.)
Bcdgowlah (NSW).


LED BY THE NOSE
Sir,
Mr Heidke (Bulletin, June 23)
hardly does himself or his union justice.
He says “In the usual way, Mr Michael
Charlton and his crew came to the Sydney
Waterfront. . . . The union gave Mr
Charlton and his crew an ‘open cheque’-
They spent two full days on the water-
front. I was allocated by the union to
provide them with any assistance or
service they required”. In this statement,
Mr Heidke intends us to believe that
Mr Charlton “happened” to decide to
make this film and “happened” to come
down to the waterfront and “happened”
to get into touch with the union, and that
Mr Heidke was then assigned to help
Charlton if he needed help.
Unfortunately for Mr Heidke, the
official organ of the Waterside Workers’
Federation has a different story. In an
article in the “Maritime Worker” of June
6, the General Secretary, Mr C. Fitzgib-
bon, says: “We were able to negotiate
with Michael Charlton ... to devote a
section of his programme to the wharf
and the long service leave campaign . . .”
Mr Heidke also says: “They (i.e.
Charlton's unit) filmed almost the whole
port and spoke to anyone they fancied”.
How curious that the Unit didn’t happen
to run into any stevedores, foremen,
supervisors, wharf superintendents or
wharf managers! Or is it perhaps rather
the case that Mr Heidke was busily
engaged for two days steering the Unit
away from people who might be able to
give the other side of the picture?
Finally, Mr Heidke says that Mugga
has made many mistakes about water-
front conditions, but “it is not my in-
tention to correct all his errors”.
Come, now, Mr Heidke, don’t be so
bashful! Why not expose the untruths
of this lackey of capitalism?
W. CARTY
Kew (Victoria).
PAID TO HAVE A DIRTY MIND
Sir,
Desmond O’Grady’s article “Paid to
have a Dirty Mind” (Bulletin, June 16),
opens up an avenue of thought. Years
ago, the emphasis was on the master-
piece and the classic; today, the emphasis
is on sex. Sexual relationship, one of the
most beautiful things in the world, has
been given a dirty meaning and placed
in a filthy gutter.
Quite often, one is told “that’s life”,
but life can be decent and beautiful;
there’s also a difference between the
“broadmindedness” we’re supposed to
have, and plain decency—nor does one
have to be narrow-minded or old fash-
ioned to prefer decent literature, plays,
and films.
It’s a sad fact that many writers write
along such lines not because they want
to, but they have to eat; which makes it
so deplorable to see writers blessed with
a gift given only to a chosen few having
to resort to such measures; for, we cannot
forget that writers are, in a sense, leaders
of the future. Their thoughts—the way
they think, feel, and believe —can in-
fluence the world round them, and live
until eternity.
With two world wars behind us, today,
more than ever, we need thought-provok-
ing articles, and inspiring stories, plays,
and films. Judging by the way religious
themes are predominating in record-
breaking hits, which are being sung and
swung, and the indignant protests of irate
parents and church leaders against indec-
ency, it looks as if the world is looking
for a deeper meaning in life; and it’s
heartening to know that even today we
have writers—men and women—who’ll
leave beauty and finesse behind them
when they die, instead of unsavory
thoughts.
SHEILA TASSELL
Mapleton (Qld.).
THE SKY BURNING...
Sir,
As a subscriber, and a reader for over
50 years I write to say how regretful I
am that you published that story “The
Sky Burning Up Above the Man”.
As you would guess I am a Catholic,
and I have gone out of my way over the
last 12 months to strongly urge many
friends to buy your paper each week.
I did so because I think it has regained
some of its lost glory, plus the fact that
the policy seemed to be to give the
Catholic point of view a fair airing.
But that story was a mistake. As you
know there are very few priests who run
off the rails—would it be one in a thous-
and? And after all they are human with
similar feelings and urges just as you
and I. Yet few fall.
When one does, unfortunately some
papers seem to delight in giving it head-
lines. Most people seem to guess to whom
your story referred. His life was a
tragedy if ever one was, but why make
a story out of it?
I am not a narrow-minded Catholic by
any means, but this does disappoint me.
I am sure it will lose some of your new
sales.
E. J. TRAIT
Cheltenham (Victoria).
“The Sky Burning Up Above the Man”
was neither a news report, nor a sociological
survey but a short story. As such, it deals
with a particular fictional person in a
particular fictional situation so it is a mis-
take to read it in any other sense.—Ed.
PEACE MOVEMENTS
IN AUSTRALIA
Sir,
Mr Peter Kelly writes (Bulletin,
June 23) that “most of the existing Com-
munist-front Peace Committees can be
traced back to the Australian Peace
Council formed at a meeting in Mel-
bourne at the home of the Rev. Mr Victor
James in luly 1949. Members
included . . .” And Mr Kelly proceeded to
name three clergymen, “the historian,
Brian Fitzpatrick”, and two of my
friends, besides, for good measure,
“housewives, journalists, and trade
unionists”.
Licking my lips over this rich dish of
subversives, I hastened to inquire of my
friend Victor James whether Mr Kelly
had been with us on that historic occasion.
But Mr James, in confirming my own
belief that I at any rate had not attended
any such gathering, said Mr Kelly was
not there, either. An inaugural meeting
had indeed been held, in July 1949, in
the Unitarian manse in East Melbourne.
But those present, founders of the Aus-
tralian Peace Council, were limited to
himself and the two other clergymen
whom Mr Kelly named.
For myself, I have to say that all bona
fide peace movements have my good
wishes. But I have not founded any, or
been a member of any. Public activities
in which I do engage line up quite enough
opposition to occupy my spare time, and I
shall be under an obligation to Mr Kelly
if he will refrain from attributing to me
a share in the organisation of Communist
or any other “fronts”.
BRIAN FITZPATRICK
Toorak, 5.E.2 (Victoria).
TRADE WITH CHINA
Sir,
The view that Australia’s trading
future lies with Russia and China is too
widely held for comfort today. More-
over, when considered in conjunction
with a detailed analysis of our trading
position and prospects made by a special
committee of the Australian Industries
Development Association, it is obviously
incorrect.
One of the major findings of this com-
mittee was that Australia’s future lay in
a wider spread of trade throughout the
world. Attention was also directed to the
possibility of increased trade with both
African and South American countries.
Although the committee favored taking
advantage of “obvious opportunities’’ for
trade with China it warned that such
trading relations should be handled with
care to avoid any possibility of political
pressures should Australia become too
dependent on one country as a market for
any particular commodity.
Even those who hold that our trading
future lies with Russia and China admit
that even the present trade with China
cannot continue for long unless Austra-
lia recognises the Government of that
country. At least that realistic view is in
striking contrast to the ostrich-like atti-
tude of those leaders of primary produ-
cers’ organisations who maintain that we
can ignore the consequences of large scale
trade with China.
It is clear that some people would
welcome the consequences, but Ido not
believe that our farmers wish to become
victims of political blackmail and tools
for Communist pressure on the Australian
Government to grant recognition to the
Peking Government on its own terms. It
should be remembered that such a result
would inevitably mean the withdrawal of
American power from our part of the
world and leave Australia exposed to
Communist aggression.
J. TEHAN
Maindample (Victoria).


REVIEWS
ART
A FAIR THING
First Art Dealers’ Fair. Barry Stern
Galleries. Sydney.
Mollie Douglas. Macquarie Galleries.
Sydney.
rpms collection of paintings, sculptures
and sundry art objects ranges wide
in space and far back in time, with a
special emphasis on fairly recent Aust-
ralian work. Items of unusual interest
from Africa, Pre-Columbian America,
Asia and New Guinea underline those
timeless, mysterious qualities once so
abundant but now exceptional in the
broad stream of contemporary art. In
a quiet, non-assertive manner their pres-
ence is felt as effectively as any recent
work on surrounding walls: two power-
ful figures from Lake Charles area, New
Guinea, the intense shield-like carvings
full of awesome convolutions, the bark
paintings and the masks so beautifully
wrought, seem to bring us very near to
a vital, fascinating if distant world of
experience.
William Dobell’s 1937 study for
“Saddle my Nag” seems at 2500 gns. a
very good buy after the excesses of the
Schureck sale. The fluid, colorful ar-
rangement of figures suggests the skill
of an 18th century Venetian genre artist;
the statement only gradually becomes a
cockney frolic of the late ’thirties. The
Passmores bear the imprint of accumu-
lated insight which only intense creative
effort can reach and which is always
authoritative.
The strength of Orban’s low-toned
study of “Notre Dame de Paris,” Lloyd
Rees’ “Road to Sierra” or Elaine Hax-
ton’s “Trespassers” lies in the crafts-
manly values of the Society of Artists
of a few years back. Quite a body of
exhibitors follow parallel ideas, Bush,
Olszanki, Dunlop to name three, indi-
cate the persistence of middle-of-the-
road painting in the face of recent de-
velopments. A rare item, Eric Wilson’s
attractive “Red Door” suggests a little
of what Australian Art lost through his
premature death. Other paintings and
drawings by Drysdale, Nolan, Boyd,
Friend and a fair sprinkling of well-
known abstractionists illustrate the bal-
ance and variety of one of the most
stimulating experiments in the dealers’
world of recent years. The effort was to
keep a good standard and many of the
exhibits surpass it.
When one sees this excellent show of
stoneware by Mollie Douglas one real-
ises that pottery’s importance as an art
has escaped the notice of those worthy
donors of big prizes who lean all too
readily towards painting. The technique
of the master potter in his own field
far surpasses that of most good painters
in theirs. By its very nature, the disci-
pline of ceramics demands a degree of
control which can produce a superb
fusion of knowledge, skill and an alive-
ness to the possibilities of form, color
and texture.
Most of the pieces here, jugs, cas-
seroles, coffee sets, bowls, jars, and so
on are intended for use but at the same
time are highly intriguing forms. The
glazes of muted browns, warm and cool
greys, greens, blues belonging to the
aristocratic high fired range, have an
organic quality of belonging to these
forms and subtle decoration or incised
design is used with great sureness and
restraint. Formal as these considerations
are, the impress and character of each
item makes it instantly recognisable as
the expression of a highly individual and
finely attuned sensibility.
J. HENSHAW
THUMPER LOSES HIS PUNCH
Robert Grieve. Argus Gallery.
John Borrack. Athenaeum Gallery.
Ken Moore. Museum of Modern Art.
T>obert Grieve’s landscapes make a
- 8 -* 1 handsome collection of clear, well-
structured paintings. Generally they
follow a method of reducing the land-
scape to a few plain sharp lines and
small CQlor areas which are then built
up from a central line. In every case the
original perception is warm and sensi-
tive and the final composition harmonious
and illuminating. Rather more than half
are on a Burnt Landscape Theme, and
these include his best. There is a notice-
able growth in confidence over this series,
by contrast with the other work, a con-
fidence which is reflected in the increas-
ing simplicity and definition of the
shapes, in the stronger color range, and
in the assurance with which he composes
simply and harmoniously. He has a most
delicate color sense to rely on and the
strength of his composition owes a great
deal to the fine overall control he has
of the tone of a painting.
As with most good landscape painters,
one learns more about the viewer than
the subject, and can reach the subject
only by sharing the artist’s feeling. In
Grieve’s case the sharing is not difficult.
Despite the suggestion of harshness in the
burnt landscape theme, all lands here are
seen warmly and gently. They are land-
scapes of valleys and autumnal trees, of
clear, consonant colors, which by their
own natural balance lead to agreeable,
unified formal arrangements.
Whereas Robert Grieve abstracts and
rebuilds his landscapes, John Borrack’s
water colors strive to build a structure
into the landscape, leaving the visual
impression intact. His scenes are what
everyone would accept by tradition as
typically Australian ranges in the
Interior, gum-tree forests in the East;
but they are painted with a skill not
usually found these days in representa-
tional landscape. They could indeed do
much to restore to some of its former
importance this very attractive medium.
His free, well-controlled structure
emerges clearly through the layers of
transparent color, and several of the
works, notably those most reminiscent
of Cezanne, are striking examples of
intelligent adaptation of the technique.
Ken Moore is a local painter whose
chief successes have been had overseas.
He paints thick, awkward, sharply out-
lined shapes, rather like a weirdly pro-
jected map of Japan, set in glaring red
smooth sunset seas. The shapes them-
selves are not especially handsome, and
are too often repeated to no point.
Certainly it is all very daring, and some-
times it comes off. When it does we
sense a painter of originality who is
ready to seize an idea and thump it
plain and hard. But the daring loses its
punch under the weight of repetition,
and sometimes the ungainly forms and
strident colors posture and shout at
nothing.
BILL HANNAN


THEATRE
CUT DOWN CHERRY ORCHARD
The Cherry Orchard. Chekov. Aus-
tralian National University Dramatic
Society. Canberra.
.
I> ei ween the conception and the crea-
tion of a Chekov performance there
must always fall something of a shadow,
at least with amateur companies. With-
out the depth of stage, the lighting facili-
ties and the decor artists of a Moscow
Arts Theatre, they are wise to do what
the A.N.U. Dramatic Society did with
their Cherry Orchard, place the window
at the side of the stage. Then the
audience has to imagine the cold loveli-
ness of the blossom in Act I and the
doomed, bronze trees at the end, but at
least the conception is not marred by an
inadequate naturalistic creation.
It was a measure of the quality of
Sybil Smith’s acting as Ranevskaia that
her vision of the cherry orchard did
transfer itself to the audience, both as
fact and symbol. Her performance was
the highlight of the first production of
a newly established ANU Dramatic
Society. She, and occasionally Bruce
Benjamin as her brother, Gayev, did
convey the charm and distinction and
also the irredeemable hopelessness of
Chekov’s decaying family. Their scene,
alone together before leaving the house,
was restrained and deeply moving.
Elsewhere however, the shadow be-
tween conception and creation was deep
and even at times impenetrable. The
cherry orchard may be invisible, but it
remains central to the play. Yet producer
Brian Smith cut it completely out of
the final scene: the family departed, the
s i ck pj ers returned to die in the old
house, but there was no sound of the
axe j n tb e orchard to complete this se-
quence. The curtains closed on a note
which was less significant and less evoc-
ative than that which chekov p i anned .
Nor was tk ere an y g enera i awareness
0 f cen t ra j contrast between Ranev-
skaia’s household and the peasant, but
dynamically efficient Pishchick; no sense
c f tension between him and the marriage-
able Varia. xhe crisis of the play was
thrown away through imperfect under-
standing of the intention and just plain
bad timing: Varia did not even pause to
let the news sink in before she cast her
k eys on the floor: Pishchick’s new auth-
ority gave him no sense of triumph be-
cause his orders to the band were obeyed
with alacrity.
Marjorie Russom’s portrayal of the
governess made a small but intelligent
contribution towards establishing some
purpose in the play. Her card tricks had
a slick professionalism quite absent from
anything done by any other member of
that feckless household; and also absent,
unfortunately, from anything else in this
production,
HOPE HEWITT
WHEN LIFE RESEMBLES O'CASEY
Cock-a-doodle Dandy. Sean O’Casey.
The Sydney Theatre Club.
tireless exuberance of Sean
O’Casey is nowhere better in
evidence than in “Cock-a-doodle Dandy”,
his gay polemic against the cramping
spirit of rustic Irish superstition. Out-
rageously attacking the imposition of
joyless spiritual mores on a fey and
happy people, he is probably making his
most basic statement. If “The Bishop’s
Bonfire” is a more trenchant play,
“Cock-a-doodle Dandy” with its fan-
tastic humour and irreverant farce, is
a more winning one. It is a theatrical
bag of tricks, with poltergeists, horned
women, a transmogrifying top hat, and
a proud and knowing rooster that is the
symbolic centre of the play.
O’Casey doesn’t quite manage to fuse
these fanciful elements into a con-
vincing drama but his array of impossible
characters and racy comic dialogue do
provide a satisfactory theatrical enter-
tainment. Only towards the end of the
play does his comic invention fail to
surprise or persuade, and it is then that
the argument, that in certain conditions
life does not “resemble life”, is too
baldly put.
The resources of the Sydney Theatre
Club were strained to account for the
prodigal requirements of the play but
producer Seamus Rothsey found such
enthusiasm and confidence in his cast
that the production had some authority
and conviction, atoning to some extent
for primary difficulties in casting and
staging.
Con Shanahan could not handle the
rough exterior of Sailor Mahan, the
retired seaman turned trucker, and his
speech, too broguish and quick was
largely unintelligible in the early part of
the play. Thomas Gleeson as Michael
Marthraun, the grasping mock - pions
farmer, handled his large part well, al-
though his movements need more pur-
pose. As Shanaar, the wily old humbug
seer, John Craig was very effective,
while Ronal Curran as the Messenger,
and John Breen as Father Domineer,
were interesting characterisations. Judy
Finlason as the patient wife who finally
escapes the cramping life was effective.
In smaller roles, William Ayers as a
Rough Fellow, and John Ellyard as the
P.orter were adequate. So much in this
play is dependent on the unifying sig-
nificance of the rooster, and Padraic
0 Conaire, whose fine presence and
commanding movements were matched
with a “crowing” quite eerie and for-
bidding, was thoroughly convincing.
JOHN CROYSTON
A SHARP EDGE
The Pleasure Seekers, metropolitan
Revue. Ballet Theatre. Sydney.
“nPHE Pleasure Seekers” sounds a little
A like the latest survey of organisa-
tion man, but is just about the most irre-
verent, bawdy, shocking and delightful
entertainment this town has at the
moment. The things I pointed out in
the company’s last review as needing
action have been achieved with a success
that is almost staggering.
Right now, this is a revue of profes-
sional attainment—with almost all its
material written here in Sydney, and so
with a local edge that is sharp and cuts
deep. Numbers like the TV commercial
for the new “holy smoke” —the cigarette
with all virgin tobacco, and its slogan
“Have A Maria” set to a treacly version
of Gounod’s famous pop song may shock
a bit, but it’s good for you. The sketch
in which Mr John Lynch as a gin-
drinking undertaker has a friendly natter
with his latest corpse may also make
you squirm a little, but it is an extraordin-
arily funny piece of work that goes
straight to Rabelais. Or Miss Sandra
Clarke discussing manners in bed,
worried as to whether it is correct to
turn one’s back on one’s partner . . .
somehow it is all fresh, very sophistic-
ated, very funny.
Six people (Misses Jill Bender and
Adrienne McFadden; Messrs Terry
Arnold and Ray Biehler in addition to
the two mentioned) are responsible for
the evening, helped by an extraordinarily
skilled and varied piano and drums back-
ing from lan Evans and David Palmer.
KEVON KEMP
ZESTFUL PARODY
Outrageous Fortune. Arrow Theatre.
The Power and the Glory. Secondary
Teachers’ College. Melbourne.
T>arbara Angell and Jon Finlayson,
both lively and capable performers
with wide-ranging show business ex-
perience, have joined forces to establish
Angell - Finlayson Enterprises, Mel-
bourne’s newest theatrical venture.
“Outrageous Fortune”, an intimate
review, is their first production, and it is
good enough to suggest that the old
Arrow Theatre may be in for a new
lease of life.
Nearly all of the material is new and
topical, and at least half of it is funny,
which is a fair enough average. The


Always ask for
AINSLIE’S
SCOTCH WHISKY
AGENTS:
Pitt, Son & Badgery Ltd., Sydney
Halloran Manton Pty. Ltd.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
■jACKSON &
-O'SUMJVAJv
to. PTY LTD c
skis® C
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS •: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
range is not wide, nor is the comment
very penetrating. Most of the targets
are theatre and television personalities
and “Institutions”, Professor Browne,
Frank Thring, “The Sound of Music”,
and the style is parody rather than satire;
nevertheless it is clever parody, and done
with zest. All five company members
work hard and skilfully.
No one will be surprised to hear that
the stage adaptation of Graham Greene’s
“The Power and the Glory” is a very
pale reflection of the original. The
Secondary Teachers’ College chose it,
presumably, because it affords an oppor-
tunity for a large cast and has a variety
of scenes. In general the production was
well staged and the acting fairly good.
JAMES MURPHY
FILM
WHERE THREE'S ALLOWED
Jules and Jim. Gala. Sydney.
rpHE typically French eternal triangle
-*• theme is thinly disguised as a deep
and lasting friendship between two men
which, ostensibly, neither war nor woman,
but only death can break. But what we
.see is the story of the life, loves and
death of Catherine (Jeanne Moreau).
Jules and Jim, the two friends, one Ger-
man, one French, are two strings of a
violin on which Catherine plays.
Catherine is obviously Jules’ girl. The
first World War comes, they marry, the
friends are separated. Jules joins the
German army, while Jim fights for the
glory of France. They meet again after
the war. The fashions have changed but,
the message is, their friendship hasn’t.
There is no longer any mystery left in
Jules, so Catherine turns to Jim who,
with Jules’ consent, promptly moves in.
Friendship knows no bounds. . . . the
final suicidal leap of the car, carrying
Catherine and Jim, comes as an anti-
climax.
Oscar Werner, as Jules, is appealing,
Henri Serre (Jim) is ver-r-ry French.
Jeanne Moreau gives her usually smooth
and frothy performance. The most poig-
nant scene in this slick melodrama is the
reconciliation of the three friends after
the war. The background music builds
up a delightful tension and we join the
three sitting in a room, ill at ease, remem-
bering the intervening years, wanting to
know that nothing has really changed and
unsure of the future. The scenery is
always charming, the documentary war
scenes of historical interest and the
photography fresh.
IRENE BAIKOVSKY
TELEVISION
MORE HARM THAN GOOD
Parliament of Youth. Channel 7.
/Yn a recent Sunday at one o’clock
Sydney viewers addicted to Laurel
and Hardy found themselves staring
at a well-rounded vowel who declared
that he was Niall Brennan, and that this
was Parliament of Youth. The cameras
then revealed close ranks of serious high
school students, all doing their best to
look like future Leadership Material.
They were from Dandenong High and
Christian Brothers College, mostly. The
students were well and truly debating:
Has Science Done More Harm Than
Good Since World War Two? Which
did not seem very Parliamentary to me.
Grimly, each member of Government
and Opposition tried to mow the others
down with machine gun delivery of
assorted facts and figures.
A Master Timothy Kutch, of Parade,
who hopes to be a priest, spoke of germ
warfare with scads of botulinus germs
delivered by rocket and missile, brand-
ished and read from Vance Packard’s
“Waste Makers”, and described the
space race as a propaganda gimmick.
In reply a Master Bowman, of Dande-
nong, who hopes to be a lawyer, slighted
all references to the atom bomb danger,
pointing out that “no such weapon has
been dropped on humanity since World
War Two”.
A later speaker also pointed out that
not one bomb had been dropped lately,
adding, “They’re still in the warehouses
-—is that waste, or not?” But they were
too quick for me, still battling with that
earlier notion of the space race as a
propaganda gimmick.
I am not even certain that I heard
a girl from Dandenong ask, “How many
Indians with drip-dry shirts are there
in the backward countries?” It’s a
question that could lead to insomnia,
nightmare, praecox.
When it was time to sum up, Niall
Brennan made some awkward passes
at nothing on his desk, squirmed a little,
and in a feeble attempt to bring the
debate down to the intelligence level of
any adults who might be watching, began
to mumble about, “The poor scientist
who messes around in his laboratory.”
How I longed for the simplicities of
Mr Laurel and Mr Hardy, who used to
illuminate the terrible absurdities of life
in a way that made them bearable
thereafter.
Parliament of Youth appears to be
limited to Melbourne and Sydney at
present. I strongly recommend that
viewers in other States contact the local
Channel 7 immediately and threaten to
trade in their 23-inch TV for an old
radio if the programme is inflicted on
them.
FRANK ROBERTS


* Australian Civilisation. A symposium
edited by Peter Coleman. F. W.
Cheshire. 355.
THE RED PAGE
A NEW AUSTRALIA?
By HENRY MAYER
np*HE attempt to build a symposium
around the central theme of “Aus-
tralian Civilisation”* seems almost
bound to fail. Is there such a thing as
“Australian Civilisation”? This collection
of essays should generate a good deal
of excitement; it is in many ways an
excellent book which by its thoroughly
civilised approach gives one hope that
its subject, Australian civilisation, does
really exist. Yet it does not quite come
off.
What we have, in fact, are roughly
three kinds of contributions: The four
best chapters are Manning Clark’s cry of
anguish over the state of Australian relig-
ious and secular faiths, Douglas McCal-
lum’s disillusioned lament over the state
of Australian liberty, and Ken Inglis’s
and Hugo Wolfsohn’s urbane dissections
of the Australian Press and foreign
policy respectively. Manning Clark’s is by
far the most original contribution. In a
chapter called “Faith” he deals with the
churches’ role as moral policemen and
delineates the contrast between the two
main types of secular faith —the Mel-
bourne Humanists and the Sydney Nietz-
scheans (everybody from the pastoral ists
via Norman Lindsay to John Anderson).
Douglas McCallum finds “The State of
Liberty” is not bad enough to give rise
to real despair, but that there are endless
public and private coercions nobody
cares about. He sees little cause for
satisfaction: “The annual Anzac Day
reign of terror by returned soldiers is
moderating as the numbers of original
hell-raisers dwindle, as wars become less
noble, heroic and praiseworthy, and as
the younger generation becomes more and
more puritanical about drunkenness and
disorder.”
Ken Inglis presents the first detached
appraisal of the Australian Press: he
writes like a gentleman examining with
fascination but without holding his nose
something that the cat dragged in. Hugo
Wolfsohn’s wry examination of our
“Foreign Policy”, or rather of the pos-
tures arising out of our powerlessness is
perhaps the first non-emotional sketch of
this subject. When the chips are down
we must end up following our “great and
powerful friends” whoever they may be
(Britain? USA? China?).
The second kind of contribution is a set
of mavericks—James McAuley’s uncon-
ventional but dogmatic sketch of “Litera-
ture and Art”; Robert Hughes’s useful
survey of “Painting” since the Mel-
bourne Picasso exhibition in 1938; and
Donald Horne’s examination of false pre-
conceptions about “Businessmen”,
suggestive, in spite of its ghost-like,
brittle air. These again are not really
much concerned with Australian Civilisa-
tion as an entity.
But the remaining seven chapters and
the introduction are committed to exam-
ining a contrast between the “old” and
the “new” Australia that has emerged
in recent years. Part of the background
to this discussion is Professor Crawford’s
recent series of lectures in the United
States in which he claimed that the 1930’s
were a watershed in Australian life; and
these contributors are concerned to spell
out this view and show how radically
the country has been changing in the last
25 years even if most people are not yet
fully aware of it.
any important events took place in
the late 1930’5. Crawford saw, as
symbols of his watershed, various changes
in public policy—the expansion of the
CSIRO, the systematic recruitment of
graduates to the public service, the
cultural patronage of the A.B.C. Cole-
man adds a number of other examples,
ranging from the penetration of key
trade unions by the Communist Party,
the formation of the National Secretariat
of Catholic Action, to the “new confi-
dence in business” in the late 1930’5.
Someone else would have mentioned the
spread of Keynesian ideas. Generally he
takes the thread running through what is
“new” in Australia as a retreat from the
“Australianist legend” which was “radical,
populist, nationalist, racialist”. For him
the real change is “the growing willingness
to criticise Australian life”. It is in his
contributors’ “severely critical note some-
times bordering on pessimism” that he
finally locates the “new spirit”. Among
other things this has involved a recogni-
tion that the old ideas of “Progress” may
involve the decay of culture and liberty
and that middle class liberals and even
religious groups, neither of which had any
place in the traditional “Australianist
legend”, have made independent contri-
butions to Australian civilisation.
This whole conception of neglected
“contributions” runs through the editor’s
introduction and the chapters by Max
Harris (“Morals and Manners”), Robin
Boyd (“The Look of Australia”), Vin-
cent Buckley (“Intellectuals”), A. A.
Phillips (“The Schools”) and Ronald
Taft’s on “The Myth and the Migrants”.
It is surely a somewhat strange one. Does
it not demonstrate how deeply a part at
least of the very Australianist legend most
of the contributors want to criticise has
affected them.
On the one hand they wish to separate
themselves from much of our past
history, to stand apart, to claim that they
and at least some religious groups, some
businessmen, some intellectuals neither
are nor ever were part of it, since what
they behold in the past rightly depresses
them. But as they also wish to claim a
“contribution” to something thought of
as a sort of seamless web of Australian
history, they cannot bring themselves to
completely dismiss the past nor, of course,
entirely separate it from present and
future. Hence a good many of the chap-
ters merely reveal (apart from their often
interesting factual content) a resentment
that the particular values espoused in
them have not been widely recognised
until recently.
This, in turn, seems to reveal that the
neglected demands and values are not
really firmly held, that those contributors
who make an open or tacit claim for
“recognition” are casting round for
support amongst others. In fact, although
claiming that what they stand for is new,
the bulk of them also reveal all the signs
of a minority unsure of itself and uncer-
tain of what it really stands for, a
minority which feels strongly the need to
be acknowledged by others.
If this interpretation holds, one may
put the same point differently and argue
that this symposium above all pays an
unwilling tribute to the elements of con-
tinuity in Australian civilisation, that
many of the contributions manifest the
ideology of groups who feel rejected and
are striving for recognition by the very
people whom they claim to reject or at
least criticise.
Thus Robin Boyd enters a pretty open
plea for the recognition of the profes-
sional. For him a society which rejects
them is immature and colonial. Vincent
Buckley characterises our intellectuals as
institutionally absorbed, job-conscious,
suburban, ideologically unsophisticated
and little concerned with the “more in-
tense manifestations of our culture”.
His contribution is a brilliant sketch of
an increasingly urbanized, and, hence
suburbanized society, in which manage-
rialism is supported by old-fashioned


utilitarianism. Buckley points to the
“lack of a tendency towards bohemia-
nism” and to the “recessiveness and lone-
liness” of Australian intellectuals. “The
secret reader of Berkeley or Buber is
under no illusion that his society places
very much value on him or his sense
of his own mission . .
The implication that with our “increas-
ing diversification” this state of affairs
would alter is an illusion. If we moved
towards a society which, in the next
few decades did place “very much value”
on people who read Berkeley or Buber
it would be one in which they would be
“valued” for reasons which run flately
counter to the traditional conception of
an intellectual and to Buckley’s values.
Max Harris, who skilfully explores
the implications of the “central facet of
Australia’s social structure” which he
sees as “a vast, affluent, reasonably class-
less suburbia” has rather fewer illusions
about what lies ahead. Sol Encel traces
the rise of the new managerialism, and
its effect on the increasing concentration
of power, which for him is “an ineluc-
table feature of modern industrial
society”. While Encel expresses a con-
ventional hope for “informed scrutiny”
of decision making, he also shows why
this wish, at best, is a very faint hope
indeed.
Many of the contributors clearly hope
for much more. What they seem to
anticipate or see as already growing
is the rise from the late thirties or
forties onwards, of an Australia civilis-
ation which would on the one hand
share the best of the European tradition,
displaying above all in increasing
diversity and civility, while also retaining
whatever seems valuable to each of them
among the features of Australian history
as they see them. This, once more, shows
the influence on them of conceptions
very common in Australia which they
seek to reject: It is a mechanistic ap-
roach, treating civilisations like mach-
ines from which you can pick, at will,
bits and pieces and you simply pick
“the best” from two worlds.
Manning Clark, Ken Inglis, Douglas
McCallum and Hugo Wolfsohn do not
share this approach, and it is impossible
briefly to dig out the general assump-
tions behind the three mavericks
mentioned earlier (McAuley, Horne,
Hughes) or behind A. G. L. Shaw’s
summary of “The Old Tradition”. But
the other contributors do share one
thing and one thing only—an assump-
tion that somehow Australia can pluck
part of European culture at will, that
she might well do so in the future,
without any enquiry of just what were
the historical conditions under which
European culture flourished, nor any
awareness that what they long for might
well be already on the decline in Europe.
They want to combine equalitarianism
and culture. Perhaps it can’t be done, per-
haps at best all we can get is American-
style culture.
On the whole the real fascination of
this symposium lies in the struggle of
the contributors to free themselves
entirely from the Australianist legend
while, simultaneously staking not only a
claim to become part and parcel of it,
but also unconsciously showing how very
powerful the hold of that legend still is.
NO BLOOD IN BUDDHISM
Island. Aldous Huxley. Chatto &
Windus. 225. 6d.
Europe. Richard G. Stern. Macgibbon
& Kee. 225. 6d.
The Quality of Love. J. Delves-
Broughton. Faber & Faber. 20s.
With Gall and Honey. R. Leslie
Gourse. Barrie & Rockliff. 265.
tjPHE influence of philosophy on the
English novel has tended to be
rather clandestine and therefore often
considered to be negligible. The influ-
ence of Nietzsche, Schopenhauer, Kier-
kegaard, Hegel and others on Conti-
nental writers is well recognised, but
the relationship between Hume and, say,
Kingsley Amis, is less evident but, to my
mind, equally significant. With the later
novels of Aldous Huxley, however, the
philosophy beneath the fiction is not
only seen to be there, but is quite openly
the very source and nourishment of it.
“Island” is, then, a philosophical novel
and, to my mind, of the first importance.
The plot is very simple: a hack journalist
who bears within himself the varying
corruptions of materialist western civilisa-
tion is wrecked on the island of Pala.
The place has been developed by its
inhabitants as a station of reformed
Buddhism combined with chosen applica-
tions of European technology. It was
founded by a Scottish doctor, a Calvi-
nist-turned-atheist, and the island’s Raja,
a Mahayana Buddhist. The journalist is
allowed to remain on the island while
his wounds heal, and during this time he
learns, by seeing for himself and through
conversation, the way of life that has
been established. Of course, the island
cannot last —20th century forces threaten
it in the person of the dictator of a
neighboring state, and the book ends
with the inevitable invasion.
The value of the book lies in its
ideas; it stands or falls as a tract for our
times, as a statement of civilized values.
That these values are of Oriental origin
should disturb no one: they are as
pragmatic as modern physics (as one
character points out) and are designed
for use. “Make the body capable of
doing many things. This will help you
to perfect the mind and so to come to
the intellectual love of God”. The basic
idea is the immanence of God as distinct
from the Christian conception of God
as the separate Creator. God is in every-
thing and therefore everything is, in one
way or another, holy. (It is significant
that Christian missionaries are high up
in the list of undesirables banned from
the island.) Such a vision of the universe
prevents the fanatical intolerance and
sadistic violence that has disfigured so
much Christian history. “Thank good-
ness”, exclaims a typical Palanese, “there
was never any blood in Buddhism!
Gautama lived till eighty and died from
being too courteous to refuse bad food.
Violent death always seems to call for
more violent death. ‘lf you won’t believe
that you’re redeemed by my redeemer s
blood, I’ll drown you in your own’. Last
year I took a course at Shivapuram in
the history of Christianity. What a
horror!”
On the island there is no guilt attached
to sex, which does not mean that it is
used indiscriminately: on the contrary,
sex is valued as a means to self trans-
cendence. “You make use of everything
you do, of everything that happens to
you, of all the things you see and hear
and taste and touch, as so many means
of your liberation from the prison of
yourself”. Maithuna, or the yoga of love,
is taught to the young at “about the
same time as trigonometry and ad-
vanced biology. That’s between fifteen
and fifteen and a half”.
The book is endlessly quotable, end-
lessly discussable. As a corrective to too
much science, too much Freud, too much
harking back to authoritarian Christian-
ity it is invaluable. Given in company
with a copy of Camus Plague it would
do more to civilize an adolescent than
anything else I can think of.
The other novels in this selection
inevitably suffer by comparison with
“Island”. The best of them is “Europe”,
another variation on the perennial ob-
session of intelligent Americans with
the continent they feel so superior to,
and yet which haunts them with intima-
tions of a grace, charity and beauty they
have not equalled. Mr Stern’s characters
do nothing that exiled Americans have
not done in many books since Heming-
way discovered Paris, but his book is
still worth reading because of his intel-
ligence and the precision with which he
applies it: “They had always been more
proud of their son than not, and they


were now proud of the intrepidity which,
joined to his usual taciturnity, gave him
the air of someone with important busi-
ness at hand; an air they valued above
all others immaterial things and the
lack of which had been their sole worry,
and hence, their chief notice of him”.
Mr Stern, in such perceptions gives the
bright “New Yorker” style of American
writing a depth it does not always have.
“The Quality of Love” is a very
English novel with a lot of very English
~,. . . , ,
characters of the kind that used to ap-
pear m Anna Neagle movies. It has the
kind of heroine who is described as
beautiful and impetuous”. Little more
need be said, except that by its own
standards it is well-written, swiftly
moving and, for many readers, would be
ideal for a train journey.
Of “With Gall and Honey” I can find
little to say. It is described as the love
story of an American girl in Israel. Its
place in the hierarchy of literary values
may best be indicated by pointing out
that the sides of the hero’s eyes “crinkle
up” when he smiles. He also smells of
after-shave lotion. He is, in short, not
real but made up from the faded rem-
nants of a thousand women’s magazines.
The sloppiness of the writing may be
indicated by a reference to pages 225
and 226. On these a male character
“smiles” three times and “grins” three
times: not to be outdone the female
character “smiles” three times, once
“brilliantly”. These may not be the most
exciting characters in recent fiction, but
they must surely have the best developed
facial muscles.
NORMAN GEAR
BEANS TO THE PIGEONS
Spanish Laughter. Elizabeth Ferguson.
Angus and Robertson. 255.
TJer first job in Barcelona is English
tutor to a fashionable family. The
Senora in a tight black silk dress and
pearls is reclining on a green silk couch
eating a pomegranate. The new hand
rolls up in an army-disposals outfit. The
next day she is back on the labor
market. She catches a tram. The pedes-
trians play matador with it. At the
boarding-house where 15 university
students are encamped she develops a
fever. For two weeks Mama plies her
with 64 cups of herbal tea and 56 plates
of white beans. The patient reads Lorca
and feeds the beans to the pigeons.
Jack’s Jungle is closed down by the
police so the intellectuals move over to
the Bar Zodiac to recite their verbs and
compare complexes. She picks up with
a troupe of students here and goes on
tour, dancing flamenco. She meets Jose-
lito a matador and develops an interest
in bullfighting; she has an anti-tetanus
injection; the bull weighs 600 pounds and
has fine horns and a tic. Miss Ferguson
has ten stitches in her leg and is out
of action for a month. Joselito sends her
a bull’s ear through the post. She buries
the trophy in the garden. Her landlady,
may lightning strike her!, digs it up.
She meets up with more painters and
gipsies and makes a crust from short
stories and English lessons. An old
woman tries to sell her a cat at 90
pesetas a kilo. Then a beggar wants 5
pesetas for some teeth. Why don’t you
try the undertaker? she asks. I did, she
replies, but none of them fit. At Palamos
she falls down a well, near Granada
she is in a car smash, at Tortosa she is
nearly killed in the bull-ring. The Aus-
tralian senorita fandangoes her way
through the little disasters which are
Spain. Always she is laughing, laughing,
Spanish laughing. Aieee!
DOUGLAS TERRY
COMMONSENSE ABOUT PASTERNAK
Courage of Genius. R. Conquest.
Collins. 225. 6d.
As long ago as 1928, the Russian
writer Boris Pilnyak dedicated one
of his short stories to Boris Pasternak.
This story, “The City of the Winds”,
foreshadowed one of the themes of
“Dr. Zhivago” which was to prove
amongst the most unpalatable to Soviet
officialdom. Pilnyak expressed it ironic-
ally in this sentence:
“Paul thought that it was a good thing
that one could take mankind as a
standard to measure human lives,
because otherwise mankind would not
cope with itself: the life of the individual
is a secondary matter, the private affair
of each person and which does not affect
mankind, because otherwise it would be
impossible to form armies and build
factories.”
A year later, Pilnyak was singled out
for vilification as an “internal emigre”
in the opening stages of Stalin’s campaign
to ensure the total submission of Russian
writers to the Party and its expediency.
One of the charges made against him was
that he had caused anti-Soviet slander
to be published abroad. The example of
Pilnyak was to be quoted many years
later by the then Secretary of the Union
of Soviet Writers, Aleksei Surkov, when
pressing the Italian publisher Feltrinelli
to hand over the as yet unpublished
manuscript of “Zhivago”.
A vast number of commentaries on
“Zhivago” and its author have been
published in the West. The present study
is a unique contribution to Paster-
nakiana because it is not an apprecia-
tion of the novel itself or of the earlier
work of Pasternak, but an inquiry into
the circumstances attendant on the
writing of the novel, its publication, the
award of the Nobel Prize, and the dread-
ful aftermath of the award.
The author, Robert Conquest, is a poet
of some standing. As a poet, he conveys
an understanding of why the poet Paster-
nak should be led to write a novel which
is convincing in the extreme. He is also
an experienced and penetrating observer
of the Soviet political scene, and he
brings to his exposition of the actions
of the Soviet literary politicians involved
in the Pasternak affair the gifts he had
earlier demonstrated in “Common Sense
about Russia” and “Power and Policy in
the USSR” —thoroughness in the collec-
tion of evidence, lucidity in its presenta-
tion, and restraint in its examination.
“Zhivago” was not a political novel
and Conquest takes pains to point out
that it was its apolitical quality which
led to its rejection by the Soviet political
and literary authorities. For, since the
charges were made against Pilnyak,
charges equally absurd as those made
against Pasternak, a non - partisan
attitude toward the regime and its real
or imaginary opponents has not been
sufficient in a Soviet writer. An un-
compromising support of Party principles
has been demanded. A man of Paster-
nak’s generation and his ability could
hardly be expected to give unreserved
backing to the crude slogans of the
Bolsheviks of 1917 and their successors.
Therein, Conquest makes it clear, lies
the distinction between Pasternak (and
perhaps the only other surviving writer
of his generation, Ehrenburg) and Dudint-
sev and the other writers who fell into
disfavour after the heady year of 1956.
Dudintsev and the others attacked the
actions of men in power, not the
principles on which that power was
based. Pasternak had to reveal a vision
of the world which transcended even the
ideals of any single organised society.
ROSH IRELAND


ART: FROM A TO ZUBARAN
R. CAMPIN (13/8/9-1444) —
A Woman.
S. NOLAN—Agricultural Hotel.
Everyman's compact two-volume
"Dictionary of Pictorial Art"
edited by William Gaunt (Dent,
835.) deals not only with painters
but with periods, styles and tech-
niques. There are concise biogra-
phies of 1200 artists, 729 illustra-
tions in monochrome and color
and one biography of an Aus-
tralian: Nolan rates ten lines, one
less than Cornelius de Vos but
one more than Jack Butler Yeats.
MUSIC, MUSIC, MUSIC
Man and His Music; The Story of
Musical Experience in the West.
Alec Harman, Anthony Milner and
Wilfrid Mellers. Barrie & Rockliff.
HThe separate volumes of this book were
impressively reviewed when they
first appeared. They were well received,
also, by college and university teachers,
and we may owe the current one-volume
edition to a reasonable hope that the
book will consolidate this success in a
handier format.
In many ways it does provide what
is wanted in a university text. This is
particularly true of the first two sections
(almost a half of the entire book), which
cover music up to 1750. at which point
the authors locate the end of baroque in
music. But it is also true oF the whole
work, which is by and large very neatly
balanced between pedantry and slick
popularising.
It is not hard to discover why this
treatment—which is, into the bargain,
quite comprehensive—should appeal to
university teachers of music history. The
fact is that there are very few books
which cover the subject below a highly
specialised level, and students of pass
courses have to get their information
from quite a large number of separate
research works. In all probability there
is no other book which surveys the whole
field, w'hich shows familiarity with the
greater part of modern musicology, and
which integrates into the one perspective
so much information.
Ail these virtues should attract the
general reader as well, and give the book
wide currency as a standard one-volume
reference.
For all this, it is not a book which I
would like to see used without correc-
tives. There are a number of reserva-
tions to be made in recommending it,
and most of these spring from the ap-
proach of Wilfrid Mellers, from his idea
of the nature of music history.
Mellers has written both the third
and fourth volumes, covering music from
1750 to our time. His attitude is socio-
logical. He sees music as one aspect of
social forms and behaviour, and he
consistently relates its development to
the development of ideas, passions and
ambitions which have formed the social
and political history of Europe over these
two centuries.
This approach suits an age like our
own, in which social consciousness is so
much to the fore. Nor could any clinch-
ing arguments he brought against it
in principle. For music is obviously
moulded by social forces, just as any art
or action involving communication is
moulded, or any form in which ideas are
expressed. Most of us would agree, in
principle, that revolutions, political
philosophy, and the discharge of scienti-
fic energy have profound effects on all
the arts.
The trouble begins when principle is
itemised in practice, and the general
becomes the particular. It is easy enough
to agree that the eruption of romantic
music parallels a violent move for social
equality; but judgments start to differ
when cases are at issue, when you
replace “classical” by “W. A. Mozart”
and “romantic” by “Karl Maria von
Weber”.
A reading of Mellers’ work does not
shake my conviction, reached after pain-
ful experience, that any a priori ap-
proach to music on a particular level is
more dangerous than its convenience is
worth. Sorokin, Freud. Marx' and St
Augustine have made or implied this
kind of approach. They all make in-
teresting reading, and they are all sepa-
rately defensible until you place a single
concrete masterpiece against the back-
ground of their general arguments.
There are three consequences of
Mellers’ preoccupation which 1 find most
unfortunate. One is the rather confusing
use of the scholastic notions of being
and becoming. It is arguable that Beeth-
oven may present a heroic case of the
drama of becoming, but one jibs at find-
ing Bach and jazz both placed, even if
by metaphor, in the condition of being.
In something of the same way, there
occur a couple of over-rigid applications
of Freudian psychology to the art of
twentieth-century musicians.
The second is Mellers’ curious aver-
sion to what he regards as an exagger-
ated concern for the passage of time,
found in nearly all music of recent cen-
turies. I could find no clear account of
Mellers’ own sentiments here, and with-
out such an account remained in the
dark as to why he should set up in
opposition to the usual view of music
as a time-conditioned art.
Finally, these preconceptions of the
writer have led to an imbalance in his
treatment. Too often he seems to have
passed final verdict on a composer for
the wrong reasons —reasons having to do
with the relation between his work and
the spirit of the time, rather than with
the qualities of the work itself. It can
only be this slanted kind of judgment
which gives Gershwin two pages of a
text which confines Honegger to one
footnote. For Gershwin may be an in-
teresting phenomenon, but Honegger is
an artist of major importance. And it
seems to me more useful to write musical
history as the history of an art than as
a contribution to a general social and
cultural history, whose values will im-
pose on and distort musical values.
KENNETH HINCE


BOOK HUNTER
Dept D”. Box i 671, G.P.0.. Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if
successful.
BECOME A
FREELANCE WRITER!
AND EARN IN YOUR SPARE TIME
There is a constant demand for well-
written stories, articles, pars, radio and TV
scripts, etc.
Write today for free details of STOTT'S
excellent Correspondent Courses in Literary
subjects.
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney; 290 Adelaide Street, Brisbane;
21 Grenfell Street, Adelaide; 22 Howard Street,
Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
TO STOTT’S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
AGE 81362
A DEMON TO HANDLE
Breaker Morant. F. M.. Cutlack. Ure
Smith. 21s.
TTarry morant, “The Breaker”, was a
name known to every Australian 50
years ago. Friend of Banjo Paterson and
Ogilvie, he was a legend among bush-
men even before he became one of the
central figures in a great tragedy and
miscarriage of justice during the South
African War. His jingling verse in The
Bulletin (“Who’s Riding Old Harle-
quin Now?”) was recited by camp fire,
in shearing shed and shanty bar. His
prowess as a steeplechasing horseman
was known as far and wide as his success
with the girls. Stations from great man-
sion estates like Hobartville at Richmond
to small outback outstations in the fence-
less West are still proud to claim that
he “worked there once” they are
almost as numerous as the localities
that are supposed to have sheltered the
phantom Dan Kelly after he “escaped
from the fire at Glenrowan”.
A youngster of good family, sup-
posedly the son of an Admiral, Morant
was a man born out of his time. He
would have been more at home in the
seventeenth century, among Charles the
First’s singing, carousing cavaliers, than
in mid-Victorian England. Like his Old
Harlequin he was a “demon to handle”,
apparently, and they shipped him to
Australia, where he spent a few rhym-
ing, hard-riding, wenching years before
he enlisted with the South Australian
Contingent to go to the South African
war. There he joined, with others of the
more adventurous Australians, the Bush
Veldt Carbineers, a raffish outfit which
during the cleaning-up period of the war,
acted as a scouting screen in front of
Plumer’s force in the never-never of the
Transvaal, where the rules of war were
catch-as-catch can. The unit seems to
have been a perpetual headache to the
brass-bound British staff in Pretoria. If
anything untoward happened in that
outfit Kitchener and his commanders
assumed the very worst, so that Morant
and Peter Handcock were unlucky when,
with a Victorian Lieutenant Witton and
a D.C.M., a great-grandson of Picton of
the Peninsula, they found themselves
charged with shooting a batch of Boer
prisoners and a German missionary, out
in the ‘tiger country’ of Zoutspan.
F. M. Cutlack, historian of the Aust-
ralian Flying Corps of World War I
and for many years on The Bulletin
staff, knew Morant in his boyhood and
has made a study of the affair, with the
benefit of legal qualifications and great
experience as a war correspondent. He
makes out a very good case for the
charge that Morant and Peter Handcock
of Bathurst were sacrificed to placate
the Kaiser’s wrath at the death of his
missionary —in respect of which they
were acquitted—at a moment of great
international tension. Morant and Hand-
cock were shot, Witton sentenced to
penal servitude for life and Picton’s des-
cendant cashiered and deprived of his
D.C.M. and six medals.
Witton was released stealthily in 1904
but he received no formal pardon. And
a petition signed by 100,000 Australians
for inquiry was ignored by th British
Government when it was sought to clear
the name of Morant and Handcock who
were, in the words of the title to the
verse which the former wrote the night
before he was shot: “Butchered to Make
a Dutchman’s Holiday”.
Cutlack’s book is short, arresting, well
documented and contains the only fitting
memorial to Morant as an addendum
a collection of his verse which might
well serve as an epitome of his life,
‘Station songs and droving ditties!
Strung together on the track.’
M. H. ELLIS
DISINTEGRATING YOUTH
Kids, Crime and Chaos. Roul Tunley.
Harper.
Jf you have never felt the chill of fear
on seeing a group of youths idling
on the footpath ahead of you, then
probably you have not spent any length
of time in an American city. Not that
danger lurks on every street, but in the
United States one is often aware of the
insecurity of person and property in the
face of widespread juvenile delinquency.
Yet delinquency is ages-old and world-
wide. Britain has its “teddy boys”,
France its “blousons noirs”, Sweden its
“raggare”, Germany its “Halbstarken”,
Japan its “thunder boys”, Australia its
“bodgies”, and even Russia its “stilyagi”.
In Sweden, 3 per cent of the teenage
youths go through the courts, compared
to 1.8 per cent in the United States;
teenagers are responsible for 21 per cent
of the crime in Japan, while those in
America commit about 12 per cent.
Tunley is not an expert, and he writes
committed to no other discipline than
that of common sense allied to an
enquiring mind. In the course of his
survey he throws much valuable light
on the real causes of delinquency and
on the sorry state of American correc-
tional procedures which, once the label
of delinquency is attached, seem per-
fectly geared to make of the juvenile
delinquent a fully fledged adult criminal.
American society, he claims, is over-
jittery about delinquency and imposes
rigid punitive measures for even the
most trifling offences, when rehabilitation
is called for. Yet there has always been
delinquency. “Youth is disintegrating.
The youngsters of the land have a dis-
respect for their elders, and a contempt
for authority in every form. Vandalism
is rife, and crime of all kinds is rampant
among our young people. The nation
is in peril!” This alarming statement
was made, not by J. Edgar Hoover, but
by an Egyptian priest forty centuries
ago. For Americans and others to
realise that this not a new problem
peculiar to them alone, but the price
which a society has to expect to pay for
rapid change and prosperity, will not
solve the problem but may help induce
the greater sense of reality needed to
deal with it effectively.
GARTH NETTHEIM


The Wild
Cat Pages and
THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
VICTORIAN RETAIL RALLY
TAPERED OFF IN JUNE
At a time when national economic
indicators are being closely scrutin-
ised for statistical evidence of the rate
of recovery, the Commonwealth Statis-
tician’s figures, showing a rise of 8.2
p.c. in Australia’s retail sales in May
compared with the same month last year,
were naturally regarded as being very
hopeful. On the face of it the Govern-
ment’s spending stimulants were doing
their work nicely during the month.
However, the secretary of the Retail
Traders’ Association in NSW was quick
to point out that, from his Association’s
sampling, sales in Sydney city stores
were only about .5 p.c. higher on the
month and those outside the city showed
very little change at all. He was most
incredulous of the Commonwealth
figures, which, he thought, were “a little
hard to accept considering NSW carries
approximately a third of Australia’s
retail sales.”
Doubts were also expressed in Queens-
land where a sample of sales in a Brisbane
city store indicated only a 2.9 p.c. rise.
But in Melbourne Mr W. D. N. John-
son, director of the Retail Traders’ As-
sociation of Victoria, told The Bulletin
that the Commonwealth Statistician’s
figures were quite consistent with sales
in Victoria during the month. The
figures haven’t been published yet, but
they will show rises of 6.9 p.c. in city
stores, 8.7 p.c. in Melbourne suburbs
and 7.3 p.c. in the country.
Mr Johnston explained that his As-
sociation’s sampling was not only smaller
in scope than the Commonwealth Statis-
tician’s but was also not as representative
of sales of some big items, such as food,
chemical preparations and electrical ap-
pliances. The latter, in particular, have
been selling very well in Victoria in
recent months and he instanced tele-
vision sets in country districts as an ex-
ample. Neither his nor the Common-
wealth Statistician’s sample includes
motor vehicles. The 35 p.c. increase in
May sales of these in Australia was ob-
viously not fully reflected in other con-
sumer durables sales, but the latter were
certainly more buoyant than they’ve
been for many months.
It has also to be remembered that
the Commonwealth Statistician’s figures
for May are provisional, not that they
are likely to be drastically revised unless
one of his assistants has done his sums
wrpngly. This has, of course, happened
before in Canberra, as occurred in the
trade figures a couple of years ago when
a wrong conversion of Indonesian cur-
rency put the import bill out by £lO
njillion or more. But on the several pre-
vious occasions when the Commonwealth
Statistician has been charged with un-
representative sampling, for instance in
the compilation of the old “C” series
index of retail prices, the Common-
wealth Statistician always came up with
a convincing answer.
The reply to doubters in any of the
States on the authenticity of his May
retail figures would be to publish the
figures for the several States. Mean-
while there seems to be a case for the
various State retail associations widen-
ing their sampling, or even treating their
own figures as confidential to the mem-
bers of their associations to whose trade
they alone apply.
When all this is said, it is pretty
evident that the Commonwealth Statis-
tician’s figures for June will make much
more sober reading. In Victoria, at any
rate, city sales were stagnating and
suburbia showed little change, according
to Mr Johnson, and with retailers still
operating cautiously there has been no
evidence of stock building either. NSW
began the month very well, but this early
impetus tailed off considerably.
The NSW association’s sample takes
in Sydney and suburbs together with
two big country centres, Newcastle and
Wollongong. All in all this covers about
60 p.c. of the State’s retail trade. Where-
as May saw the suburbs running evenly
with last year, sales in the country
towns moved back heavily.
City Diary
jyi ß Eric McClintock, who recently for-
sook a top job in the Department
of Trade for the imaginative confines of
Mr John Marks’s Development Finance
Corporation, is putting into practice some
of the export promotion ideas he could
only talk about at the D. of T.
The plot isn’t fully hatched yet, but
Australia will be thankful to hear the
full story in another month or so. Therg’s
much more to it than getting articles
into South-East Asian papers.
Straight from Adelaide, where he de-
livered the John Derham memorial
lecture in plastics, Ohio born Dr Albert
Diez, from the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology, told Melbourne some-
thing of the big future for plastics. His
words were of particular comfort to the
Altona Petrochemicals complex, where
the brand new plants would welcome
rather more custom than is offering at
the moment.
T was asking Mr Jim Shackell, manag-
A ing director of Broken Hill Associ-
ated Smelters, about the effect of the
new low price for lead on life in Broken
Hill.
Apparently the locals are frustrated
but philosophical about the resulting at-
trition in the lead bonus, which is the
lowest since before the Korean War.
They can only welcome the efforts of
BHAS and seven other companies as-
sociated with the metal in Australia in
forming the Australian Lead Develop-
ment Association.
Linked with counterparts in overseas
countries it holds out hope for lead
consumption and its price, to which the
bonus is geared.
Campbell’s could do for soups
"" and Shepparton, Unilever has done
for mashed potatoes and Ballarat. Not
that Melburnians were out of it in either
case.
Like Campbell’s, Unilever ran a
special train from Melbourne for the
opening of its factory. Only thing miss-
ing was the pipe band.


EDITORIAL
A CHALLENGE TO THE BACK ROOM
'II/'hatever else it may do, the 1962
Commonwealth Budget presents a
great challenge to its framers. For
clearly this year, more than others in
the post-war period, offers a direct con-
flict of political and economic necessities
and it will require judicious handling to
prepare a document which bows to both,
yet is in the public good.
In Canberra over the next few weeks
these economic issues of vital import-
ance to Australia will be discussed;
decisions will be arrived at; and the
course for the economy set for the next
six months at least.
The background framers of this
year’s effort will be much the same as
the complement that has dictated
economic policy in the last decade. Seat-
ing arrangements at the Treasurer’s table,
however, seem certain to have altered
considerably following the admitted
errors in forecasting in the last two
years.
With strong voices from new sources
in mind, perhaps we are to see a much
closer relationship of fiscal and monetary
policy than has been the case in recent
years. The present banking policy
would indicate this, with Dr Coombs
withholding any firm action pending the
Budget. Although it is felt that Dr
Coombs has a decided course of action
in mind.
It is time that Australia adopted a
keener sense of flexibility in economic
thinking and planning. Use of existing
monetary weapons would avoid the
“stop and go” appearance of economic
policies, provided those weapons were
used to lead not correct fiscal moves.
If we are to consider August Budgets
as a clear lead to Government policy for
the coming period, then the issues at
stake in the 1962 Budget can be great
ones involving the long-term develop-
ment of Australia. For Australia must
get its house in order to meet the
possible impact of external develop-
ments on the economy.
The Common Market problems and
the downward direction of world
economics do not provide an easy
climate for Australia to budget for a
resumption of the “zoom”.
Yet, politically, the Government is
faced with the need to give the economy
a further shot in the arm if only to
prevent unemployment reaching socially
unacceptable levels when the school
leavers join the work force later in the
year. In fact it needs to reduce con-
siderably the current number of unem-
ployed before November.
Without thought of those clouds build-
ing up in Europe and North America,
no doubt it would be in the order of
things for the makers of policy to go
right out and provide a deficit “spend-
ing” Budget despite all its inflation
dangers.
Indeed, it has been suggested in many
A places that this will be the case
Certainly the static position of the
economy is currently strong enough to
withstand a greater internal level of
activity.
But can Australia face a renewed
demand for imports—now freely avail-
able—with the export position distinctly
uncomfortable and capital inflow a very
shaky factor in the years ahead? As a
long-term proposition, obviously, no. In
the short haul, perhaps, a mild dose of
inflation could be regarded lightly,
although the dangers of inflating in a
deflating world economy can be only
held as exceedingly foolish for a nation
which depends on commodity prices.
Overseas reserves will need to be at
their maximum in the 1960’s to act as
a cushion to the loss of export trade in
the traditional markets of the United
Kingdom. This, of course, may prove
only a transitional problem pending the
development of new export markets and
new export products. Nonetheless, at
this stage, it appears as a problem to be
allowed for in no uncertain manner.
fpHE 1962 Budget then must set the
A direction by which Australia can
withstand the pressures that are appear-
ing on the world scene. An imaginative
document would well encompass some
form of stimulant without detracting
from the essential object of cost stability.
The aim of 1962-63 economic develop-
ment must surely be to restore more
buoyancy (and confidence) within the
confines of the stability of costs brought
forth by the painful measures of Novem-
ber 15, 1960.
To move too far as a political
expediency—and unfortunately, because
of the electoral position, this must be
a plaguing thought to Cabinet could
cause a severe rebound in 1963 should
the world situation deteriorate any
further.
Temporary measures with a cut-off
point dependent on activity within the
economy could be the device used to
restore buoyancy; after all such action
was taken to “dampen down” activity
two years ago. To avoid confidence-
destroying confusion these measures if
adopted should be labelled clearly that
they are only temporary.
Given a non-inflationary basis, which
again it must be emphasised is vitally
essential, both in domestic and world
terms, the Budget can still establish a
firm foundation for future growth. It is
not to be expected that the strains affect-
ing the international economy will vanish
swiftly. But a healthy internal situation,
easily enough within our grasp, can go a
long way towards facing these outside
strains.
INDEX
Company Reviews .... 52, 53
Kelvinator
Jas. Hardie Asbestos
One to Buy ... .... .... 54
Speculator’s Diary ... .... 55
Stock Exchange Summary .... 56
Gold Stocks .... 57
Advertising & Marketing 58, 59
Man on the Land .... 60, 61
Retail Trends .... .... .... 41
The Budget .... .... .... 42
US Problems .... 43
Economics Anonymous .... 44
Canada’s problem 46
Investment Section .... 47, 57
CRA-—a New Leader .... 47
Talk Around’Change.... 48, 50
Security 51


I XL
This World Famous Brand is Manufactured
and Distributed by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES AND
ASSOCIATED COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
UNITED STATES
GRAVE ECONOMIC PROBLEMS
Harassed for weeks by the declining
sharemarket and the resurgent
waves of short selling by professional
speculators and panic-stricken small in-
vestors, President Kennedy’s New Fron-
tier may soon be facing an even more
severe economic test.
The recent offhand remark made by
the US Department of Labor’s Statisti-
cian, Mr E. Clague, to the effect that
the basic economic indicators seem to
point to a new recession some time
in 1963 has strengthened the general
feeling of uneasiness among American
businessmen.
On the face of it, apart from
Wall Street’s continuous retreat, there is
little concrete evidence for alarm. And
the successive falls of leading Wall
Street stocks for which no one has
as yet offered a satisfactory explanation
—are really more a symptom than a
cause of the ailment.
Commencements of new buildings—
stimulated by a remarkably strong de-
mand for housing accommodation are
almost 23 p.c. higher than last year. Re-
tail spending seems satisfactory, overall
production is rising and earnings of wage
and salary-earners are up. Over the last
six months gross national output has in-
creased by 9 p.c. and productivity by an
estimated 8 p.c.
But business confidence is just not
there; and the big industry seems to
have little trust in the Kennedy Adminis-
tration. The President’s recent strong-
arm taming of the American steel in-
dustry seems to have done some con-
siderable long-term damage to the New
Frontier’s prospects. It has put the
brakes on the vitally needed modernisa-
tion of America’s leading steel mills
now outdated by West European and
Japanese equipment and has dam-
pened the profit expectations of a cruci-
ally important section of Big Business.
So far labor has had little to gain from
the New Frontier. Unemployment is still
high and there may be new reductions
in the labor force if the President is
compelled to use his wide new tariff
powers to step up US imports. The Ad-
ministration will soon face the test of
new labor demands for wage increases
and it remains to be seen if President
Kennedy can be as tough with the union
bosses as he was with the steel magnates.
Business confidence, that vital element
in a free enterprise economy, is not
helped by the fact that the American
industry as a whole has been producing
at hardly more than 85 p.c. of its out-
put capacity over the last two years. In
addition there is the gold outflow prob-
lem, with the international speculators
putting terrific pressure on the dollar
in the hope of its possible devaluation in
respect of gold.
The US Treasury has denied any in-
tentions to raise its official gold price
but rumors persist. Everybody knows
that President Kennedy will have to
make up his mind on gold soon or see
the US gold stocks at Fort Knox con-
tinue to dwindle.
The US Administration’s use of purely
monetary measures is, unfortunately, re-
stricted by a general liquidity shortage
partly caused by the growth in small
scale investments on Wall Street
over the past few years. In the period
between the end of March quarter of
1959 and the March quarter of 1962
the US national income rose by 16.1
p.c. but demand deposits with banks by
only 2.8 p.c. Now if the interest rate
is eased a major dollar crisis could fol-
low. But if money is not made a bit
cheaper the pressure to sell shares and
other securities will be intensified, pos-
sibly leading to new “Blue Mondays”.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
THE COMMON MARKET-A QUESTION
OF PREFERENCE
Tudging by well informed comment in
London, Britain is not as concerned as
one might expect about the likely loss of
preferences in oversea Commonwealth
countries. The “London Times” stated
recently that “it should be remembered
that Commonwealth preference is no
longer as important as it used to be and
may well be less significant than it
appears to be.”
On the same point the Economist
Intelligence Unit has estimated that in
only about one-third of British exports
to the rest of the Commonwealth is
Britain’s share greater than it would be
without the preference system.
The latter estimate is surprisingly low.
If it is accurate for Australia, which was
next after Canada as top Commonwealth
market for UK exports last year, the bar-
gaining power of our UK preferences in
any horse trading to be done in London
later this year to keep our markets in
Britain is perhaps not as high as one
might have expected. It would explain
the readiness with which the British
Government is apparently prepared to see
the preference system go in the interests
of jumping on the European band-
waggon.
Indeed, Britain has been finding
Europe a more expansive market than
the Commonwealth for some time.
Figures for the first quarter this year
show that, for the first time this century,
UK exports to Europe exceeded those to
the Commonwealth. This caps a trend
evident since 1951 when exports to
Europe comprised only 25 p.c. of the
UK total as against 50 p.c. going to the
Commonwealth.
Swing to Europe
Although UK exports to the Common-
wealth increased from £ 1295 m. to
£ 1454 m. between 1951 and 1961, their
share of the total dropped to 39 p.c.
In the same period exports to Europe rose
from £63Bm. to £1196m., nearly double.
The swing of UK trade towards Europe
is striking enough. But the Common-
wealth s failure to keep pace with the
growth in world trade is even more so.
Between 1954 and 1960 world exports
increased by 46 p.c., whereas Common-
wealth countries increased their exports
by only 32 p.c., and inter-Common-
wealth exports rose by only 17 p.c. What
is more, Britain’s trade with the rest of
the Commonwealth has grown more
slowly than the trade of any of the other
Commonwealth countries.
Looking dispassionately at the pre-
ference system, Britain has come to the
conclusion that she has less to lose than
the Commonwealth countries in letting it
go, and, the need for transitional arrange-
ments to soften the blow for the Com-
monwealth apart, the main argument for
keeping it lies in the importance of main-
taining the political unity of the Com-
monwealth.
On the other hand, it is argued that
unless Britain gets in step with the more
vigorous advance in world trade evi-
denced outside the Commonwealth, her
own purchases from the rest of the Com-
monwealth are bound to decline, for more
than anything else Britain’s economy
stands or falls by the strength of its over-
seas trade.
One has to see the general picture
of preferences in its full Commonwealth
background, because when the time
comes for sealing the fate of the system,
as seems bound to happen later this year,
the whole complex of preferential ar-
rangements for Commonwealth trade
with the UK will be under consideration,
not merely those affecting Anglo-Aus-
tralian trade. Any suggestion of dis-
crimination in our favor would neces-
sarily have unwanted repercussions on
Commonwealth unity, so for all the
strong representations we have made to
protect our trade with the UK, Britain
will doubtless strongly resist any pres-
sure to give Australia special treatment.
When the Ottawa Agreement forma-
lised the structure of the preference
system, about 55 p.c. of Commonwealth
imports into both the UK market and
oversea Commonwealth markets were
subject to preferences. The average level
of preferences either way was then around
20 p.c., those in UK being largely specific
preferences and the rest of the Common-
wealth ad valorem.
This proved to be the pinnacle of the
preference system, for there has since
been a reduction in the percentage of
trade either way enjoying preference and
very much more in the effective margins
of preference. Between 1937 and 1948
it is calculated that the percentage of
trade either way under preference
dropped from 55 to 50 p.c., and that
since then it has not fallen by more
than 2 or 3 p.c. But the drop
in the effective margins of preference
has been striking. On UK imports the
average margin fell from 20 to 12 p.c.
between 1937 and 1948 and since then
it has fallen to around 74 p.c. On the
other hand, the fall in average margins
on UK exports to Commonwealth
markets was only from 20 to 15 p.c. be-
tween 1937 and 1948, with a further
drop to about 12 p.c. at present.
Australia (in 1956) and New Zealand
(in 1958) negotiated new agreements with
Britain to redress the balance and at the
same time the new agreements took into
account the changing pattern of trade
with third countries. In the result margins
of preference suffered an all-round re-
duction.
There seemed to be no question of
bolstering the preference system in these
moves, for instance, by increasing the
UK’s specific preferences. The emphasis
was rather on the need to pave the way
for the development of more reciprocal
trade with some of Australia’s and New
Zealand's growing customers like Japan
by reducing our ad valorem preferences
to give them more relatively favorable
conditions of entry into our markets.
New Winds Blow
In deciding not to try to put the
clock back in its trade with the Common-
wealth, Britain has made a realistic ap-
preciation of several new winds blowing
more third country exports to Common-
wealth markets in recent years, such as
the liberalisation of imports from dollar
and other previously restricted sources,
the flow of direct dollar aid, loans and
grants from the World Bank and other
international lending agencies, the sur-
pluses of manufacturing goods from re-
habilitated and rising industrial countries
seeking export outlets and so on.
But equally, if not more important in
explaining the decline in Britain’s share
of Commonwealth markets, is the im-
paired buying power of the Common-
wealth countries in the British market
caused largely by the low prices it is
prepared to pay for commodities and
raw materials from the Commonwealth.
This, among other things, has forced the
Commonwealth countries to look much
further afield for customers and the
corollary is that we’ve been obliged to
give the newcomers bigger shares of our
own markets.
UK TRADE WITH COMMONWEALTH
COUNTRIES 1961
UK UK
Exports Imports
to from
Country £ Stg. mil. £ Stg. mil.
Canada 228 349
India, Pakistan and
Ceylon 223 210
Australia 203 174
Eire 139 145
New Zealand 124 159
South Africa (a) 150 111
West Africa 145 92
Central African
Federation 47 101
Malaya & Singapore 79 57
West Indies 61 66
East African States 45 29
(a) Still in preference system.


Research at C.S.R.
The Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited con-
ducts research into sugar cane growing, into sugar
milling and sugar refining and into the production of
building materials and chemicals. Groups in C.S.R.
doing research include:
Plant research centre
5 graduates carry out investigations into the physiology,
biochemistry and genetics of the sugar cane plant. The
main laboratory is a phytotron in which conditions of
plant environment can be closely controlled.
Agricultural experiment stations
At stations attached to C.S.R. raw sugar mills in the
cane growing areas of Australia, 3 graduates and 12 other
technical staff study plant breeding, pathology, entomology
and agronomy. Successful varieties of new canes developed
are made available to cane farmers. An agricultural
advisory service is provided for farmers.
Central research department
In laboratories at the central research department, 30
graduates with 35 assistants do research in chemistry,
physics, botany and engineering associated with the sugar
industry and other C.S.R. activities.
Mill, refinery, building materials development
Teams of engineers, chemists and mathematicians are
engaged in finding new and improving existing methods
and equipment in C.S.R. factories.
Operations research section
A group of 6 graduates study the application of mathe-
matical methods to the analysis and solution of managerial
problems.
CSR92SA
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
(A member of Commercial Union Australia Group)
ESTABLISHED 1872
Head Office: Anchor House, 234-242 George Street, Sydney
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS" AND TRAVELLERS" BAGGAGE INSURED
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne
Queensland Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek Street, Brisbane
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
Secretary, K. N. FINLAY
ELECTRIC
LIFTS
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED,
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. FF 3931.
HYDRAULIC
Represented in all States . Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
OIL
SLEIGH'S ASTUTE OFFER
With everybody waiting for Moonie
No. 4 to show its hand the oil
world’s main divertissement last week was
H. C. Sleigh’s intriguing and urgent bid
for Kangaroo Petroleum Holdings on
the eve of the new Companies Act com-
ing into force. Sleigh, whose offer was
promptly accepted by Mr Farren Webb
and his board, astutely made an alterna-
tive cash offer with its shares bid, so if
the deal goes through as it stands, there
would be no question of the company
having to make a full statement of its
financial position as required under the
new Act.
However, both Total Oil (a subsidiary
of the Compagnie Francaise Des Pet-
roles) and Amoco (a subsidiary of Ameri-
can Standard of Indiana) are both after
this stripling company as an easy way
to gather in service stations in Victoria.
Kangaroo’s 45 reseller outlets (34 in
Melbourne metropolitan area) may not
seem many alongside the country’s total
of 20,415, but obviously every one extra
counts in the books of the oil companies
in their bids to get bigger stakes in the
highly competitive petrol market. For
Amoco in particular, Kangaroo’s attrac-
tion is irresistible for its ready-made
entry into the Victorian resellers’ scene.
Of course Total is already in Victoria,
but in face of the much lower rate of
expansion in motor spirit consumption
since it started in the State in 1960 it
is finding the going tougher than ex-
pected (this year Australia’s motor spirit
sales are about 4.7 p.c. up on last year,
which was only 4 p.c. higher than 1960
and only about half the average growth
rate of the previous three years).
Kangaroo’s sales, which are now
about eight million gallons a year, are
only a fraction of 1 p.c. of Australia’s
1350 million gallons current petrol con-
sumption, of which Shell has about 25
p.c., Mobil 18, B.P. 17, Caltex 13,
Ampol 12, Esso and Sleigh 7 p.c. each,
and Total most of the remaining 1 p.c.
The addition of Kangaroo’s gallon-
age to Sleigh’s current sales of motor
spirit would represent an increase of
about 6 p.c., which at its current rate
of increase in sales would take it
about H years to achieve with its cur-
rent outlet.
Though a successful takeover by
Sleigh (this looks very probable because
of the preponderance of Kangaroo
shares held by Kangaroo directors and
their associates) would involve taking
supplies for Kangaroo service stations
for the next 40 years from Shell, Caltex,
to whom Sleigh draws closer every day
and from whom it draws its supplies, may
look benignly on Kangaroo’s gallonage.


INSTANT ENGINE STAKTING
WITH -
Avoid unnecessary engine
wear —just one quick spray
into the air intake is all
that's required. Saves money
by avoiding cylinder scour-
ing and gives longer battery
and starter life. Contains
anti-corrosive and anti-knock
additives with upper
cylinder lubricant.
Proven the world over and endorsed
by Rolls Royce.
Less than 2d. per start—Aerostart is available at only 21/6 from all garages and stores
Manufactured by:
AEROSTART (ANZIA) PTY. LTD.
2 Queens Road, Melbourne. 26-4653.
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX (Vice-Chairman),
R. J. VICARS, A. MURRAY JONES, HUGH DIXON,
D. A. T. DICKINS, K. B. MYERS, A. E. STEPHEN
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every description
J. O. LEWIS, General Manager.
CANADA POINTS A WARNING
If/rraouT losing sight of the vista of
" full recovery and the slopes of
growth to be climbed beyond it, Aus-
tralia should search the long sequence of
events leading up to Canada’s current
balance-of-payments crisis. We might
also take fair warning because, basically,
Canada’s problems of maximising employ-
ment and sustaining growth are the same
as ours.
Stated broadly, Canada has run into its
present trouble because, after years of
heavy reliance on capital inflow to
balance its overseas payments in face of
chronic trade deficits, the prop was with-
drawn and internal activity and economic
development had to be curtailed. The
rot set in three years ago. The country
that alone for many years after the war
was looking the US dollar more than
squarely in the face, because of its unique
attractions for US capital, was plunged
into deep unemployment, saw its currency
go to discount and proceeded generally
to tailor a smaller coat.
Rightly or not (according to one’s
opinion), the Governor of the Reserve
Bank proceeded to keep the economy
batterned down by deflationary measures,
but eventually, about a year ago, the
Government decided it had had enough.
The Governor was replaced, the currency
was devalued and reflationary policies set
in train with very salutary results in
terms of production and employment and,
for six months or more, not to the detri-
ment of the country’s overseas reserves.
But all this year there has been grow-
ing pressure on reserves. Exports have
failed to respond sufficiently under the
incentive ot devaluation to offset the
country’s greatly sharpened appetite for
imports and, sensing trouble, United
States capital has been moving out. In the
five months to the end of May, reserves
dropped from 2000 million dollars to just
under 1500 million. Then it seems that
politics stepped in, for in June, when
the Diefenbaker Government lost its
majority, another 400 million dollars of
reserves were lost, bringing the total
(at June 23) down to not much more than
half the figure at the beginning of the
year.
rrifflS was a situation in which even a
Government caught in mid-stream
had to take drastic action. The most
urgent requirement was to stop pressure
on the Canadian dollar and to do this
1050 million dollars were borrowed last
week from the IMF, the US and Britain.
And to correct the underlying disequi-
librium in the balance-of-payments, the
Government has again reverted to the
disinflationary tack it disavowed only a
year ago. Emergency tariffs of from five
to 15 per cent, have been imposed on
about half the country’s imports, bank
rate has been fixed at 6 per cent, after
more than five years of being allowed to
fluctuate with money market interest
rates, and the Government has stated its
intention to cut its deficit by 250 million
dollars.
In the light of this experience perhaps
we can consider ourselves fortunate that
capital inflow into Australia hasn’t proved
as fickle a partner in development here
as it has been in Canada in recent years.
We were not denied its elixir in 1960 to
sustain a state of economic intoxication
when succor from a favorable current
account balance was lacking. Nor in the
aftermath of internal recession that
followed the awakening in November
1960 did capital inflow fail to help in
restoring our overseas reserves to their
present more than respectable levels.
Maybe the difference is that we have
not become so inured to the drug nor are
as reliant on it as Canada. Or perhaps
we are looked on by overseas investors
as being able to sustain our develop-
ment more lastingly and to take action in
time to prevent the exuberance of booms
from over-reaching themselves. True,
Canada is more prone to short term capi-
tal movements than this country, partly
because its currency has been allowed to
float and party because New York is so
near and its capital market is so closely
integrated with the United States. One
broad moral for us in this would certainly
be to beware of “hot” money and to wel-
come overseas captial only when it
intends to stay here.
A nother lesson, perhaps appropriate at
this juncture, would be that there is a
limit (though it is difficult to define) to the
function of deficit spending in the pro-
cess of recovery. It is fairly evident that
the Diefenbaker Government exceeded
it this year by budgeting for a deficit of
750 m. dollars or <£A332 million. This
is about three times as much as Mr Holt
last week indicated would be our own
deficit for 1961-62, although, it has to
be recognised that Canada’s population is
184 million compared to only 104 million
in this country. Judging by the liberality
of the Government to the Premiers at
the Loan Council last week, the Treasurer
will have to be wary of going too far in
this direction
Another conclusion would be that both
time and gradualness are of the essence
in forestalling a balance-of-payments
crisis. Whatever may be said of our own
Government’s sledgehammer in Novem-
ber 1960 on these scores, they certainly
scotched a balance-of-payments crisis in
the bud. Mr Diefenbaker failed to take
the lesson.
Still looking at it from our own point
of view, it is the very violence of these
measures which must not be repeated.
With so many liquidity problems to re-
solve, a certain monetary conservatism
seems likely to afflict the world for some
time to come. Australia, facing a
harsher position for many of its prin-
cipal commodities, has to tread warily
during a period when internal stability,
capital inflow and healthy reserves mean
more than usual.


YOUR
FAVOURITE
BRANDY
HI
i:&RANp%
BRANDY
C.S.R. - GOOD, BUT MORE
COMMENT STILL NEEDED
INVESTMENT
SECTION
Csr’s annual meeting in 10 days’
time should get far more attention
than usual. Such a staid company is
rarely given to any form of crude dis-
play. But, in the light of the markedly
better 1961-62 report, shareholders will
at least be needing a clear and con-
vincing picture of contemporary trends.
This is not to say that the rather
special stoicism demanded of investors
has not been repaid. Some of them
must obviously have been careful
enough to read directors’ interim state-
ment and sense that trading was moving
with some fairly worthwhile improve-
ment.
But most would not have been willing
to feel that this improvement had
reached more widely than the sugar
activities. Here is the pleasantly sur-
prising element of the report. And here,
principally, is the section which needs
most up-to-date comment.
Directors should be in no two minds
about providing this further information.
So far as building materials and
chemicals are concerned, they have done
a far better job than many anticipated.
It is going to be very nice to know that
these two previously clouded branches
are still battling forward.
Equally pleasant is the knowledge
that Fiji has overcome the massive
1960-61 loss—with “a return to stability
in the industry”. Here again some
amplification may be required.
For many informed observers still
look askance at Fiji’s political pos-
sibilities and all unrest is certainly not
dispelled. Coming events, or caution,
may have dictated the plan of trans-
ferring “our sugar milling business in
Fiji” to a wholly owned subsidiary. A
complete explanation will no doubt be
forthcoming.
A new era may well be on the way,
since these second consolidated accounts
list the subsidiaries to which they relate
■—information set out for the first time.
Such cursory details naturally make
more obvious the necessity of showing
the most important subsidiary results
separately. Dare we hope a start has
been made to continue the unbuttoning
process?
This is only to say that mere legally
satisfactory accounts are insufficient to
portray the whole story and that is
what shareholders should be able to
obtain. By and large they might see that
the dividend rise was possible and
justified. Quite a lot more could be
said.
It is barely enough to disclose such
a healthy reduction of overdraft, a
favourable stocks position and higher
sundry debtors without more liberal
comment and details. The massive share
premium reserve, <£2,038,200, stands
out, but capital and revenue reserves
still remain bathed in mystery as one.
And so on and so on.
Moonie No. 4 and after
Tt sounds almost unnecessarily platitu-
A dinous to say that the Moonie No. 4
revelation came at a particularly good
time for the markets. With some signs
of steadiness among investment sections,
and the fairly disciplined manner in which
the news was treated by oils, this Union-
Kern-A.O.G. fillip can do little but good.
As spokesmen for the companies have
repeatedly averred, proving the field still
has some way to go. The latest result
may bring nearer a real discussion of
pipeline costs and suchlike. But this com-
mentator has always emphasised, and still
emphasises, the need for going carefully.
It seems most probable that the next
drilling may take place at right angles
to the present line of holes, for that
longitudinal extent may be reasonably
well determined. What looks extremely
remarkable is the practically steady bed
depth at which oil is disclosed: Moonie
No. 1, 5925 ft; No. 2, 5795-5827 ft; No.
3, 5850 ft; No. 4, 5804-5826 ft.
Moonie may therefore furnish a species
of certainty in the very uncertain oil
world. Yet even here there is no surety
guaranteed. In spite of all the American
refinements, now much pattered around
’Change, the price of the shares contains
more guesswork than anything else.
This is where discipline is more and
more needed. In the present financial
conditions, one could hope it would be
forthcoming. The days of a single hole
stretching from Queensland to Timor
can afford to disappear forever.
In other words, Moonie might yet
present us with an oilfield, but it must
now give us judgment. Patience will also
be necessary for the evaluation of dry
holes, here and elsewhere. Too much
notice need not be paid to these necessary
dry wells.
Delimitation of the Moonie area and
its eventual separation from the whole
of the group’s lease also is com.'ng closer.
Re-arrangements when the leases fall due
for renewal, and the prospects of other
oil investigations, will test investors to the
limit.


“Business expansion
AFL
and assistance . . »**
AUSTRALIAN FACTORS
LIMITED
wtembteked ty/n4ecuhed't/lfofeb
for five years
or more
LONG
TERM
p.o.
4 year*
8>
p.o.
3 years
7i%
p.a.
2 years
SHORT
TERM
7%
p.a.
12 mcnths
6i%
p.a.
9 months
6%
p.a.
6 months
5i%
p.a.
3 months
5i%
p.a.
at call
BANKERS: Australia & New Zealand Bank Ltd.
BROKERS TO THE ISSUE: Patrick & Co.
TRUSTEES: Permanent Nominees Pty. Limited.
HOW TO APPLY: Applications must be made on the form
attached to the Prospectus and the acknowledgment will be
a Registered Redeemable Unsecured Note. Applications may
be lodged at—
• Any branch of the Australia & New Zealand Bank Ltd.
• Any member of a Recognised Stock Exchange.
• Patrick & Co., 16 O'Connell Street, Brokers to the issue.
• Australian Factors Limited, 126 Phillip Street, Sydney.
Interest payable half-yearly—free of exchange.
AUSTRALIAN FACTORS LIMITED
AUSTRALIAN FACTORS LIMITED, 126 Phillip Street, Sydney.
Please send me, without obligation, a copy of your
Prospectus offering Registered Unsecured Notes.
Mr./Mrs./Miss
Address
182#
TALK AROUND CHANGE
11/fARKETS are currently heavily dis-
counting the position of W. A.
Peterson Ltd, Melbourne-Adelaide hotch
potch of heavy engineering and radio
renting and retailing interests. The
shares are down to 3s. 9d, which puts
them on roughly a 15 p.c. yield basis,
taking the recent 5 p.c. interim as in-
dicating a 10 p.c. annual dividend rate.
The interim report in April spoke of in-
creased sales in the half-ylar to last
December, and there are signs of still
higher activity.
Among a lot of very indifferent sort
of timber such as the previously un-
profitable Finlay Bros operation in
Elizabeth Street, acquired for a song last
year—the group has a solid engineering
subsidiary, Wiles Manufacturing, which
makes, among other things, railway roll-
ing stock in South Australia.
The SA subsidiary is tendering for
the supply of railway stock for Pakistan
railways and in an astute parallel move
is investigating a proposition to manu-
facture agricultural machinery in Paki-
stan, which would be jointly financed by
W. A. Peterson Ltd and Pakistani
interests.
W. A. Peterson is not a share for
widows and orphans, but the company is
certainly enterprising and could develop
into a sound concern.
of the latest Melbourne floats,
Leighton Contractors Ltd, has kept
its head high during the current slide in
share markets and at Bs. 6d. the shares
are only a few pence below their high.
The company is noted more for its
big construction works such as Sandown
Park motor circuit and Kingsway Road
project, but also has recently been busily
directing its attention to house building
in Melbourne.
Like A. V. Jennings it is finding a
great deal more interest in the latter
field. This is reflected in a big increase
in the value of new houses and flats
approved in Victoria in May, when at
£7.2 million it was £l.l million
higher than in May last year. This was
a far bigger improvement than in NSW
and only bettered in South Australia.
The Leighton prospectus forecast an
initial 10 p.c. dividend rate and this
should be met comfortably. For the
half : year to December last earnings would
have given double cover for this rate.
Smith could have taken a cue
from ICIANZ’s more hopeful interim
report (after last year’s setback) in decid-
ing to be more liberal to shareholders
by increasing the interim from 5 to 6
p.c., forecasting a possible 12 p.c. for
the full year. The company increased
its holding of ICIANZ shares to more
than 1,500,000 as a result of the latter’s
acquisition of Commonwealth Fertilisers
and Chemicals Ltd last year. (Could it
be that the reorganisation of the fertiliser
company under ICIANZ is already
yielding good fruits?)
It is more likely, though, that Cuming
Smith directors have come to the conclu-
sion (as they say) that reserves, which
are now about the equivalent of the or-
dinary capital, are high enough to
warrant further increases in dividend.
The company has been as good as its
prospectus words and with the possibi-
lity of a bonus and higher dividends in
front of them, shareholders have every
reason to keep holding.


FINANCE CORPORATION
of AUSTRALIA LIMITED
OFFERS A SPECIALISED FINANCE SERVICE
We have finance available for: —
LENDING
v
Developmental Projects
▼
Capital Equipment
▼
Commercial and Industrial Properties
▼
Business Expansion
DISCOUNTING AND PURCHASE
Mortgages
v
Contracts of Sale
T
Leases
▼
Hire Purchase Contracts
FINANCE CORPORATION OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
ADELAIDE
F.C.A. Building,
IS Franklin Street
Telephone SI 3781
MELBOURNE
Union House,
SI Queen Street,
Telephone 61 30SI
SYDNEY BRISBANE
Anchor House, Mercantile House,
***«•»“"
Telephone 27 7003 Telephone 31 2861
PERTH
M.L.C. Building,
171-177 St. George's Tee,
Telephone 21 6892
GF 2
GOSSIP ON THE MARKET
Insurance stocks are highly prized, so
the debut of Security and General
Insurance on Melbourne and Sydney lists
last week was greeted with excessive
enthusiasm. Opening price was 255. for
the ss. shares.
Next day they were traded at 28s. to
yield 2.2 p.c., which seems out of pro-
portion to the 2.6 p.c. offered by South
British the doyen of the corps.
After all, South British made a one-
for-one bonus in November 1959, and
then bought out United Insurance, but
was still able to earn 33.3 p.c. on capital
and pay 15 p.c. And capital is about 24
times the newcomer’s £200,000.
/Concrete Industries (Aust.) Ltd. is
bringing its chain of tile factories to a
total of eleven, with establishment of
three new plants costing £250,000 at
Newcastle, Adelaide and Perth.
The market temporarily lost sight of
Concrete’s strength last week, allowing
the ss. shares to sink to 135., then restor-
ing them to 14s. lid. within three days.
The margin of earnings over dividend
will be finer this year, but the stock is
solid worth at these levels. Earning rate
would be improved by borrowing funds
in lieu of another capital issue.
IyfERCANTILE CREDITS is, without the
support of an underwriter, batting it
alone for £i million of debentures
from public subscriptions. By saving
underwriting fees, the company can offer
more to the brokers who recommend
them to clients.
With interest rates ranging from 4 p.c.
per annum for 3 months to 8 p.c. per
annum for seven to ten years, the com-
pany ranks itself just behind the bank-
associated financiers.
There is a tendency for the market
still to underrate Mercantile Credits,
amongst the medium-class hire purchase
companies.
"Outile continues its glamour restoring
* face-lift. In the next week or two we
should hear of another large American
rutile supply contract with a local pro-
ducer.
The American Potash group is seeking
large supplies of the metal. Likely
winner of the contract at this stage: The
Consolidated Gold Fields group.
Qood reports are current about A. V.
Jennings Ltd, which is now selling
30 houses a month compared #ith
practically none at all this time last year.
Its new Frankston development project
is proceeding according to plan and the
group is at full stretch in its work in
other States.
The talk is that the company will step
up its final, possibly to 51 p.c. to add to
the 41 p.c. interim, making 10 p.c. for
the year. At the current price of 7s.
the ss. shares give a yield of 6.4 p.c.
on a 9 p.c. annual rate.


Add ELECTRICITY to YOUR assets-
Invest in the
PROSPECT
COUNTY COUNCIL
£5 'Tb 0 L
LOAN
Electricity supply is one of Australia’s fastest-expanding industries, and 20%
of the nation’s public works expenditure is on power. The second largest
electricity undertaking in N.S.W., the Prospect County Council serves 400,000
people in Western Sydney, v/here industrial and housing developments are
making striking headway.
86% of the increase in factory employment in Sydney in 1960-61 was in
establishments supplied with power by the Prospect County Council. 2,000
new homes are under construction on one housing estate alone.
You can invest for 7, 10 or 20 years with Prospect, secure in the knowledge
that your interest will be paid every 6 months, and your capital refunded in
full at maturity. Your security is Council’s annual revenue, estimated at
£8,500,000 for 1962, and reserve rating powers.
The Loan is an Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W.
Apply at any branch of the Commonwealth Trading Bank; Australia and
New Zealand Bank Limited; Bank of New South Wales; The Commercial
Banking Company of Sydney Limited; or through a Stockbroker; or at the
Council’s offices (or ’phone 637-0144).
CLOSING SATURDAYI
THE
PROSPECT COUNTY COUNCIL LOAN
Underwritten by Ralph W. King & Yuill. Ernest L. Davis & Co.
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
CHANGE TALK
HPhe one-share-one-vote rule preserved
the status quo for Sydney timber
merchant George Hudson Holdings Ltd.
A campaign conducted by Dr George
Hudson and his committee to overthrow
four of seven board members succeeded
in whipping up keen interest, and the
issue was strongly contested. To win, Dr
Hudson only needed a swing by a hand-
ful of small shareholders or one large
shareholder.
The management will come up for
more target practice unless trading re-
sults improve next year.
Successful applicants to the R. W.
Miller float should be able to make
at least 3s. 6d. on the placement price
of 12s. 6d. when the shares come on
the market. An 8 p.c. dividend is fore-
cast from indicated earnings of about
16 to 17 p.c.
Although practically unknown to the
general public outside NSW, the com-
pany does supply its beer to interstate
passenger transport, has three large
transport companies operating in Vic-
toria and SA as well as NSW, charters
Australian National Line bulk carriers
for coal shipments to other States, and
has a sizeable coal export trade with
Japan.
There are 36 wholly-owned subsi-
diaries, whose net tangible assets have
a book value of about £4 million. Half
the group’s capital investment is in the
Petersham brewery and the hotel chain.
•Oix weeks old Kangaroo Petroleum
leaped to accept the 24-hour offer
from H. C. Sleigh before anyone else
had time to turn about.
Total Oil referred a counter-offer to its
Paris parent, but the week necessary for
a decision put it out of the bidding for
Kangaroo.
Amoco Australia, subsidiary of Stand-
ard Oil of Indiana, was expected to be
interested, but directors denied they
were considering a bid for Kangaroo.
The 37-year contract to take
petroleum supplies from Shell seems
more of an attraction to Sleigh (sup-
plied by Caltex) than the 45 outlets
which Kangaroo can add to Sleigh’s
chain of over 1000 service stations.
Sleigh’s rather unorthodox takeover
practices have in the past sometimes been
abortive, but this attempt has apparently
been successful.
To strengthen its bidding hand, Sleigh
announced an estimated profit of
£1,550,000 for the year ended June 30
last £400,000 more than in 1960-61.
Announcement of a final figure and
the provisions made to arrive at that re-
sult, is usually made in September. Mean-
time suspicions are aroused as to how
much window-dressing is sheer decora-
tion for the Boral betrothal.


ACCOUNTS
AND
PROFIT SUMMARIES
Year to January 25-28
1957
1958
1959
1960
1961
1962
£'000
£'000
£'000
£'000
£' 000
£'000
Current Assets
.... 6157
6833
7910
9375
15,804
18,238
Less Current Liabilities
.... 4608
4264
6587
5738
11,736
12,088
Working Capital
.... 1909
2569
1323
3637
4068
4151
Fixed Assets
.... 14,098
17,198
21,142
22,788
28,230
35,278
Investments
.... 1124
1173
1751
1825
1793
1796
■intangibles
.... 404
406
667
667
—
—
Total Capital .
Represented by
.... 17,535
21,346
24,883
28,917
34,091
41,225
Loan Capital
.... 4725
5392
6319
9912
10,379
12,750
Minority Interests
.... 1676
1681
1747
1747
1750
1750
Preference Capital
.... 275
275
275
275
275
275
Convertible Notes
.... —
—
—
221
1922
1922
Ordinary Capital
.... 5775
8696
9609
9703
11,405
13,452
Capital Reserves
.... 1897
1953
3648
3648
4036
6613
Other Reserves and Surplus
.... 3187
3349
3285
3411
4324
4463
Estimated Operating Income
.... 2173
2597
3069
3689
4344
4641
Earnings ..
.... 1065
1129
1240
1432
1789
1896
Ord. Dividends
.... 792
898
1146
1153
1287
1541
Surplus
.... 273
231
94
279
502
355
Dividend Yield % (a)
3.4
3.0
3.2
3.5
4.0
3.6
Price/Earnings Ratio (a)
.... 23.9
30.4
29.2
23.3
21.8
24.8
High Share Price (b)
.... 21/-
22/3
21/-
21/3
18/10
16/10i
Low Share Price (b) 16/3 16/1
(a) Last sale April (month accounts presented).
(b) Preceding calendar year.
17/6
16/4*
13/6
13/7
Security
WOOLWORTHS GIVES
OPPORTUNITY AT NEAR-LOW PRICE
From 1955 to 1959 the 5/- shares of
Woolworths Ltd were traded con-
sistently at high points of over 20/-
a share, reaching a high of 22s 3d. during
1957. Since that time the stock has
fallen into relative disfavor of the in-
vesting public and today the shares are
changing hands at around 15/9. With
a one-for-five par issue coming up next
month net value today is 14/-. The in-
vestment opportunities seem highly satis-
factory as this price is only a few pence
above the all time low of 13/6 reached
at the latter end of 1960.
Although the annual report for the
53 weeks ended January 31, 1962, show-
ed a rise in consolidated net profit after
taxation to just over £2 million, the
earning rate on ordinary capital slipped
from 16.7 per cent, to 14.8 per cent, after
making appropriate adjustments for
capital raised during the year. Some of
the factors which probably contributed
to this decline in the earning rate were:
• The year’s results included only
four months trading from the Rockman
chain of 74 stores acquired during 1961.
It is likely that most of these months
were spent restocking the chain which is
now operating profitably though it was
trading at a loss at the time of acquisi-
tion.
• During the year the company press-
ed on with its development programme,
even accelerated it to take up some trad-
ing slack, involving heavy pre-opening
expenses which would have affected earn-
ing capacity. In all 69 new stores were
opened in the twelve months as com-
pared with 27 in the previous year.
• The whole of the financial year
which coincides closely with the calendar
year, was one of a general recession in
the retail trade throughout Australia and
must have had an adverse effect on the
company’s trading results (particularly in
Queensland where unemployment was
highest).
There is little doubt that the com-
pany’s major change in policy in 1958
in adding supermarket and food distri-
bution to its variety chain has contri-
buted to the relative stability of results
achieved during a period which has seen
other retailers not faring so well. For
instance, Mark Foys’ net profit after tax
slumped from £135,000 to about
£19,000 in the year to February, 1962.
A number of other retailers also turned
in substantially reduced profits for the
year ended during 1961 even though it
did not cover the full period of the
recession and some have recently passed
their interim dividend for the current
financial year.
llTool worth s’ food retailing started in
1958, after successfully selling eggs
in Sydney imported from Victoria. Once
interested they acquired in relatively
quick succession B.C.C. Stores Holdings
Co. Ltd, Flemings Pty Ltd, Mcllrath’s
Holdings and a few smaller food retail-
ers, in each case making effective use of
their share premium. In August, 1961,
Woolworths became even more diversi-
fied when they acquired the stock, fittings
and freehold properties owned by a
number of subsidiaries of Rockmans Ltd
followed in November by the acquisition
of the Chic Salon group of companies
thereby extending their activities into
the field of clothing and soft goods
which activity was already carried on
in their variety chain stores. In all,
Woolworths has now over 750 stores
(with a turnover running at the rate of
£lOO million per an r um), as compared
with under 300 when it embarked on its
programme to become a food retailing
organisation in 1958. However, in spite
of the pace of its expansion, as shown
by the increase in paid capital of almost
<£s million in the last four years, the
earning rate on ordinary capital has re-
mained relatively steady at around 15
per cent.
There are many factors which point
to a recovery in the 1962-63 year: (a)
both Rockmans and Chic Salon stores
should contribute to the profits of the
year; (b) many of the 69 new stores
built in the past year should be produc-
ing turnovers which should assist in rais-
ing the earning rate; and (c) recently
announced Government measures to re-
lieve employment should stimulate the
retail trade and Woolworths substantial
development programmes will enable it to
profit from additional public spending.
Because of this expected recovery
during the current financial year there
seems no reasons why the 12 per cent,
dividend rate will not be maintained on
the higher capital. It is interesting to
note that the dividend income of a share-
holder would have increased over the
10 year period from 1952 to 1962 at an
average annual compound rate of 7.2 per
cent, as a result of new issues at par.
The fact that during the period from
1954 to 1957 when no new issues were
made the dividend rate was increased
would suggest that Woolworths aims to
make the profits which it earns avail-
able to its shareholders in the form of
dividends.
The expanding population and work
force of Australia and the dynamic ap-
proach which Woolworths have always
adopted to retailing suggests that they
will at least be able to maintain their
share of the market in the future and
continuance of their growth will at least
be geared to that of the economy.
It is perhaps worth pointing out that,
as the 6 per cent, convertible notes also
participate in the coming issue, a cheaper
way into Woolworths could be via the
notes, provided that the price difference
between the notes and shares is not less
than 1/-.


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
KELVINATOR AUSTRALIA LTD.
SOUND STOCK FOR HOLDING
makers and distributors of domes-
tic appliances have survived the
swings of fortune as well as the South
Australian company, Kelvinator Aust-
ralia Ltd.
Once again, in the twelve months to
March 31, 1962, Kelvinator traded
profitably and paid a dividend, as it has
done each year since 1934. And the
latest profit has been exceeded on only
two occasions in the company’s history.
Established in Adelaide in the
company originally manufactured house-
hold refrigerators under licence from
Nash - Kelvinator Corporation, now
American Motors Corporation of the
USA. Production was later extended to
include frozen food cabinets and a wide
range of commercial refrigeration equip-
ment. A wholly-owned subsidiary,
Wayne Pumps Australia Ltd, makes
petrol pumps to American design.
As the post-war demand for refrigera-
tors became satiated, Kelvinator moved
into the production of fully automatic
washing machines, and Kelvinator and
Leonard brand room air conditioners.
The company participated indirectly in
the TV boom by distributing Kelvinator
brand radios and TV receivers and equip-
ment, which are made outside to Kel-
vinator specifications. The decision to
refrain from manufacturing these pro-
ducts has been fully vindicated. Since
1957-58 a plastics division has satisfied
internal production requirements.
The main manufacturing facilities are
located at Finsbury, SA, with other
plants in NSW, Victoria, Queensland
and WA.
Group profit for the 1961-62 year
fell from £350,778 to £301,504, after
providing £220,000 (1961 £353,000) for
tax and £229,154 (£232,817) for de-
preciation:—
PARENT AND SUBSIDIARIES
Dividends N Re_
Mar., Profit. Prefs. Ord. Total. serves
£ £ p.c. £ £
Tax overprovided. . . .. 33,353 766,739
1954 235,039 12,200 15 113,450 888,328
Tax underprovided 3372 884,956
1955 238,097 12,200 15 113,450 1,009,603
Tax underprovided . . 29.041 980,562
1958 293,137 12,200 15 138,762 1,134,937
Profit sale land . . . . 13,621 1,148,558
Tax underprovided .. .. 3256 1,145,302
1957 241,235 12,200 15 164,075 1,222,462
Tax overprovided . . . . 11,338 1,233,800
Added revaluation reserve,
31,356 . . 1,265,156
1958 237,(.32 12,200 15 164.075 1,338,713
Tax overprovided .. 1666 1,340,379
1959 238,125 12,200 15 164.075 1,414,429
1960 312,032 12,200 15 164,075 1,562.988
Tax underprovided .. 15,373 1,547,613
1961 350,'/78 12.200 15 164,075 1,734,316
T;x overprovided .. . 4267 1,738,583
1962 301.50'! 12,200 15 164,075 1,876,012
The earning rate slipped from 33.4 to
28.6 p.c. on unchanged capital, com-
pared with 29.7 p.c. in 1960, 22.3, 22.3,
22.6 and 33.3 p.c. back to 1956. But
there was still a nice plough-back of
profits after dispensing £12,200 to pref-
erence shareholders and £l5l °' 7 ' to the
ordinary shareholders.
In the post-war boom in household
appliances, Kelvinator financed the pro-
vision of manufacturing facilities by re-
taining profits, and calling on share-
holders for £1,042,500 of capital and
£146,250 of premiums. The last issue, a
one-for-two at par, was in late 1955.
Kelvinator now employs a total share
capital of £1,242,500: —
PARENT AND SUBSIDIARIES
1960 1961 1962
Paid capital
Prof. .. 230.000 230,000 230,000
Ord. . . . . 1,012 500 1,012,500 1,012,500
Reserves . .. 1,562,986 1,734,316 1,876,012
Mortgage .. 402,000 388,500 375,000
Staff funds .. 52,243 59,075
Warrant}'
provision .. 328.453 323,249 291,364
Creditors . .. 686,382 639,663 568,214
Tax Provision . 471,278 717,184 220,000
Final div. .. 107,350 107,350 107,350
£4.800.949 5,205,005 4,739,515
Freeholds .. 574,943 616,541 611,300
Plant .. .. 1,073,321 1,039,080 1,008,537
Stocks .. .. 1,695,588 2,491,609 1,767,308
Debtors .. .. 673,574 478,114 556,289
Deposits .. .. 700.000 450,000 680,000
Cash etc. .. 83.523 129,661 116,081
£4,800,949 5,205,005 4,739,515
The impression of financial conserva-
tism given by the cost of plant and other
fixed assets shown in the balance sheet
at £2,474,564, and written down to
£1,008,537, is reinforced by the fact
that tax provision in 1959 and 1960 ex-
ceeded the disclosed profits.
In this type of business, where com-
mitments for materials and supplies are
made months in advance, stocks are hard
to control closely in line with a rapidly
changing sales pattern. The company was
therefore caught with excessive stocks at
March 31, 1961, but these have been
largely disposed of to more normal levels
at latest balance date.
Deposits and cash provide a high de-
gree of liquidity. The balance sheet
structure is very sound, and outsiders’
equity in the business is minimal. The
accounts impress as indicative of a well-
managed concern. Other companies,
more heavily involved in production for
short booms, have hit higher spots than
Kelvinator, but they have done so at
the risk of being left over-capitalised and
with excessive manufacturing capacity.
A less spectacular growth allows better
employment of funds and assets over the
long term.
Published statistics reveal that total
production of household refrigerators in
Australia in 1961-62 was about 13 p.c.
lower than in 1960-61, but stocks held
by manufacturers and retailers were sub-
stantially lower at March 1962 (Kel-
vinator’s balance date) than the year
before. The company therefore expects
to benefit from increased production
anticipated in the current financial year.
The trend to fully-automatic domestic
washing machines continues, and pros-
pects for the development of an oil in-
dustry in Australia make the future of
Wayne Pumps attractive. Sales of air-
conditioners were affected by economic
conditions last year, but the market will
develop.
Directors sound more concerned about
their market for commercial refrigera-
tion than any other product. Large im-
ports of refrigeration compressors have
forced Australian producers to the point
where it may be uneconomic to continue
to make the investment necessary to
keep abreast of technological develop-
ments overseas, they said in the annual
report.
The ss. ordinary shares, backed by
14s. 3d. in tangible assets, recently
changed hands at around 19s. 6d. to
yield 3.8 p.c. on the usual 15 p.c.
dividend basis. This compares with a
price range in 1961 from 19s. 3d. to
15s. and in 1962 from 20s. 6d. to
17s. 6d. on Sydney Exchange. On the
record, the current price is no bargain,
but present outlook is better than for
at least 18 months, and the shares look
very good holding.
JAS. HARDIE ASBESTOS LTD
COFFERS WELL LINED
IT - ey member of the Hardie group,
James Hardie Asbestos Ltd, put an-
other lining round its coffers in the year
to March 31, 1962. Disclosed profit of
£608,971 was again exceeded by provi-
sion of £862,292 for Australian and New
Zealand taxes, and dwarfed by the
£1,318,770 provided for depreciation.
This was not a company reeo- i, but
it was an excellent performance con-
sidering the difficulties of the economy
generally and the building industry par-
ticularly.
The business originated in 1888, and
the holding company emerged in its
present form in 1918. Hardie Hold-


A. L NEVITT. DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT. A. C. DRAPER.
N. W C. DRAPER
(Members ol Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street. Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O, BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH.
2 Denham Street, Phone 6089
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
Delfin House,
16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines)
Prudential Building.
150 Queen St., Melbourne
67-5957 (4 lines)
Telegrams and Cables:
“Rosdale”. Sydney, Melbourne
or Wollongong.
LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Sixth Floor,
56 Hunter Street, Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Telephone: BW 5721.
Telegrams and Cables:
“I.AGKAM.” Sydney.
WANTED TO BUY
FOR CASH
Shares, listed or unlisted,
Forestry Bonds, etc.
J. W. GRANT & CO.
549 St. Kilda Road,
Melbourne
Telephone: 51-6243
Est. 1939
HELP
all the year round.
Donations: 169 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney. BM 2001. »
ings Ltd holds 47 p.c. of the issued
capital.
Plants at Camellia (NSW), Brooklyn
(Vic), Newstead and Meeandah (Qld.)
Birkenhead and Elizabeth (SA) and
Welshpool and Rivervale (WA) produce
asbestos-cement building materials,
Fibrolite pressure pipes and electrical
conduit, Hardibestos Five Star and
Safety Circle brake linings, clutch
facing and friction materials, and ther-
mal insulation materials.
Acquisition of Better Brakes Holdings
Ltd in 1959 widened the company’s
scope beyond building materials, for its
products are supplied to the automotive,
shipping, aircraft, agricultural and other
industries. In the last year the company
has, as a result of major technological
research, developed a non-metallic com-
position brake block which is being sug-
gested to NSW railways for passenger
and freight rolling stock.
The brake-lining division of James
Hardie and Co. Ply Ltd and Better
Brakes were merged with the Australian
“Ferodo” interests of Turner and Newall
Ltd of England during 1961-62, to form
a new company Hardie-Ferodo Pty Ltd.
It is a subsidiary of James Hardie Asbes-
tos, but a substantial minority holding be-
longs to the English company.
Some of the group’s raw material
supplies come from the company’s own
asbestos mine at Baryulgil in N C V' "nd
the balance from Cape Asbestos Co.
Ltd of the UK, in which James Hardie
is a shareholder. A separate NZ subsi-
diary supplies the Dominion from plants
in Auckland and Penrose. No comment
has been made in recent chairman’s ad-
dresses as to the New Zealand company’s
performance.
The excessive tax provision in 1962
this is the third year that tax ’"is ex-
ceeded disclosed profits suggests that
the real profit after tax was closer to
£l.3m. However, from the accounts this
is the way reserves have accumulated.
Reserves comprise £1,543,896 general
and contingencies, £892,521 assets re-
valuation, £425,000 for plant replace-
ment (created in 1958 and 1959),
£1,834,490 unappropriated profits and
other sundry items.
Earning rates have been 18.9 p.c. in
1956, followed by 16.9, 30.7, 28.0, 15.8,
17.2 and finally 18.3 p.c. on ordinary
capital in 1962. Shareholders lm": been
treated to three bonuses in the last seven
years, the last in the ratio of one-for-
five in 1959-60. The 10 p.c. dividend
rate established in 1956 was maintained
with ease after this 50 p.c. watering of
capital:—
PARENT AND SUBSIDIARIES
Mar. To Re- Re-
-31, Profit Dividends serves serves*
£ £ £ £
1956 359,029 10 p.c. = 189,750, 169,279 2,580,796
Added reserves on acquisition of sub-
sidiary, etc., £117,705 2,698,501
Additions, Sinking Fund, £3959 .. 2,702,460
1957 337,110 10 p.c. = 197,250 139,860 2,842.320
To depreciation provision, £23,350 . 2,818,970
1958 614,443 10 p.c. = 199,750 414,693 3,233,663
Tax overprovided, £ 100,000 .. 3,333,663
Revaluation property, etc. £42,308 3,375,971
1959 560,477 10 p.c. = 199,750 360,727 3,736,698
Share premiums, £llO,OOO .. . 3,846,698
Assets-revaluation, £1,112,974 . .. 4,959,672
Reserves capitalised, £1,110,327 3,849,345
Increase difference cost and book-
value shares in subsidiaries, £108,269
. . 3,957,614
Increase contingencies reserve. £63,749 4,026,363
Less transfer for subsidiary to con-
tingencies reserve, £6200 .. 4.020,163
1960 522,593 10 p.c. = 331.098 191,495 4,211,658
Decrease difference cost and book-
value shares in subsids., £96,211 4,115,447
1961 573,253 10 p.c. = 333,098 240,155' 4,355,602
Asset revaluation .. 307,866 4,663.468
Add to general and contingency
reserves ... .. 45.607 4,709,075
Less variation in exchange re invest-
ment in overseas subs. 537 4,708,538
Less difference in cost and book value
shares in subs. .. 156 4.703,382
1962 608,971 10 p.c. i 333,098 275,873 4,984,255*
* Subject to intangibles of £98,449 as at
31/3/62.
Investment in fixed assets (which are
never separated in published accounts)
has increased by £6fm. in the last four
years. The company has been almost en-
tirely self-financing, but last year ar-
rangements were made to replace short-
term borrowings by a first mortgage de-
benture issue which ra : sed £1,090,000
at 8 p.c.:—
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
1960 1961 1962
Paid capital . 3,330,982 3.330,982 3.330,982
Reserves . . 4,211,658 4,355,602 4,984,255
Minority
interest .. 25,000 25,000 25,000
Loans . . .. 476,615 695,840 597,106
Debentures .. 1.090,000
Overdraft .. 892,675 1,040,057 797,304
Creditors etc. 1,591,592 2,266,780 2,319,765
Tax provision . 1,100,430 1,415,212 1,222.831
Suspense 24.341
Final dividend 166,549 166,549 166,549
11,795,501 13,296,022 14,558,133
Freeholds, plant
etc. .. .. 6,536,716 7,833,842 8,022,329
Shares .. .. 259 632 259,632 255,348
Stocks . .. 2,831,257 3,092,932 3,729,850
Debtors .. .. 1,900.024 1,973,434 2,445,391
Cash, bonds .. 84,059 18.999 6,766
Suspense .. .. 85,364 18.734
Goodwill . . . . 18.449 98,449 98,449
11,795,501 13,296,022 14,558,133
Provision of some long-term finance has
relieved the tight working capital posi-
tion for the time being, but the com-
pany may resort to shareholders in the
future.
This time last year the 20s. ordinary
shares could be had for 83s. Investors
must now outlay 965. 9d. for each unit
giving a 2.1 p.c. yield but they are 12
months closer to capital or income bene-
fits. This is 13s. 3d. below this year’s top
price, but it is still beyond the range of
most small investors.


1
&
REGISTERED
UNSECURED NOTES
V
87. j
p,a, for 7 years
H% p- a
for 12 Months
Other rates and terms avail-
able see Prospectus for full
details. Your copy available from
all Members of Stock Exchanges,
over 750 branches of the A.N.Z.
Bank Limited and I.A.C. Branches.
•
Applications for stock will proceed
only on one of the forms of appli-
cation referred to and attached to
a printed copy of the Prospectus.
Branches at
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE PERTH
HOBART CANBERRA
Underwriting Brokers : lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Canberra, Sydney,
Adelaide and Brisbane.
8139 N
ONE TO BUY
BHP SHARES AT UNDER
60s. SHOULD BE GOOD VALUE
Tt may not be very original to recom-
mend Broken Hill Proprietary Co.
Ltd shares as good buying, but the
market has been considerably less
tolerant of this No. 1 favorite in recent
months. Top price this calendar year
on the Sydney market was 70s. 3d., a
far cry from a recent transaction at 545.
9d.
Certainly the market as a whole has
now lost all the gains it made since the
beginning of the year, but there are
specific reasons for BHP’s current
relative unpopularity.
In the past the steel giant has financed
its capital expenditure by retention of
profits, and provision for depreciation
and plant replacement by calling on
shareholders at frequent intervals, and
by private borrowings. In the last six
years, for instance, four par issues have
been made (sweetened by two bonuses)
to raise £41.5 million; depreciation and
plant replacement provisions contributed
<£■B4.s million, and retained profits
£35.5 million.
Capital expenditure for those six years
averaged £27 million yearly, the 1961
figure being £39.1 million. Share-
holders were told in March that the
company’s heavy programme of con-
struction and development was involving
expenditure approaching £5O million a
year.
Directors then announced, in accord-
ance with a capital financing plan laid
down several years before, that it would
make its first public debenture issue for
42 years. An issue on the local market
for £l2 million was oversubscribed
within a week by £9.5 million. A
similar issue in London for £9,375,000
was heavily undersubscribed, largely due
to an unhappy coincidence with a fall
on Wall Street—technical reasons rather
than a reflection on the merits of BHP.
The £30,875,000 raised in debentures
has hypnotised investors into believing
that this is the end of capital benefits
which were essential to supplement the
minimal dividends. But we believe that
capital issues have been deferred by 18
months at most.
Present issued capital is £ 112.7 m.
A one-for-six issue, which ratio was
sufficient to keep shareholders happy in
the past, would raise a mere £lB.Bm.
and be easily fed to the company’s
voracious capital demands. In the
interim shareholders may be coaxed
with a marginal increase on the present
dividend rate of 61 p.c.
Financial year ends on May 31, so
that parent company accounts can be
expected in mid-July, and group
accounts in mid-August. The Is. 3d. a
share dividend payout requires about
£6,349,000, compared with the 1961
distribution of £5,970,222.
Pig iron output rose 25 p.c., steel
production 9 p.c. and the bloom mills
production 12 p.c. in the latest term,
but output of tinplate and plate and strip
eased slightly.
Earning rate on much higher average
capital must fall from the 1960-61 rate
of 19.2 p.c. if the previous rate of
allocation is made for depreciation and
plant replacement, but with the aid of
debenture funds in the coming year a
recovery can be expected.
The market suspected it had overdone
the disparagement of BHP stock, and
within two days of the 545. 9d. sale the
price had bounced back to 58s. In our
view anything under 60s. is particularly
good value.


STOCK OPTIONS
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
Suite 1, Sixth Floor, Temple Court
122 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Phone 67-8011
BRANCH OFFICES
Sydney: 383 George Street, 29-7865
Adelaide: 61 Gawler Place, 7-8407.
Brisbane: 334 Queen Street, 31-1621
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
All Offices: “Options”
Write or Phone for Free Brochure
and Current Price Schedule.
FOR CALL OPTIONS
CALL STOCK OPTIONS
THE
ARMBDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOL
situated in the Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Buildings.
Junior House separate from the
rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
A. 11. CASH, M.A. (Oxon),
Headmaster.
THE COBURG TEACHERS' COLLEGE
Presents
CINEMA '62
A festival of films, including a special study of
the films of D. W. Griffith
July 16th to July 28th
All inquiries to the
Ticket Secretary,
Box 50,
COBURG, VICTORIA.
MOTOR OVERHAUL
WHILE-U-DRiVE
REPLATES WORN, upper cylds., main bear-
ing's, diffs., gears. SAVE: Rebore. ENDS:
Piston slap, rattles, oil, petrol waste.
RESTORES: New compression, power, top
speed, zip. SAVES: Adds LSD to re-sale value.
GUARANTEED: Up to 25,000 miles. Harmless
finest engine, liquid Nu-Metal, or in Tablet
form. SIMPLY: Add Re-Nu expanding liquid
Nu-Metal, or in Tablet form to oil, petrol, or
plug holes, 4,6, 8 cylds., 60/, 70/, 80/. Testi-
monials, engineers’ reports, free advice avail-
able. Open Saturday Distributors required.
RE-NU-CO. (estab. 1932), 58 Swann St, op.
Richmond Stn, Vic. JB 1755.
I enclose £., for Super Nu-Metal.
NAME
ADDRESS .. ..
.. .. BUL.
Speculators Diary
Monday, July 2.
There’s no denying that the rubber ball
they call the share market still has
some bounce left in it, although at one
stage of last week it looked as though
it might be going to perish altogether.
Then, mercifully, it rose again just as
quickly as it had fallen, regaining every-
thing it had lost earlier in the week. Mr
Staniforth Ricketson would have been
only one of a great many who were
feeling a good deal happier by the end of
the week. But at mid-week the market
seemed to be doing its best to make a
fool of Mr Ricketson and his bravely
optimistic forecasts about rising share
prices.
Still, I for one am inclined to side
with Mr Ricketson. In 1960 he was
some six months ahead of his time with
his predictions that the market was going
to fall; by the end of 1960 he’d been
proved resoundingly correct. In 1960 it
paid to be ahead of the times, not behind
them. So let us hope that Mr Ricket-
son is again simply a little premature
with his predictions.
Every day we are being reminded of
signs of increasing economic activity.
Unemployment remains the only black
mark. However, a significantly higher
level of unemployment is something we
may have to learn to live with over the
next decade as machines enable fewer
and fewer men to do more and more
work. That, of course, is a long-term
problem. The main concern at the
moment seems to be what Mr Warren
McDonald, head of the Commonwealth
Bank, describes as “weakness in inter-
national money markets”. That, presum-
ably, explains why Australian share
markets are currently following Wall
Street so slavishly. Mr McEwen has just
shown that he’s not afraid of getting out
of step with the Americans. Now it’s
time, I hope, for Australian stock ex-
changes to follow his example.
Instead of matching my own con-
fidence with the market’s resilience last
week, I found myself obsessed with tax
returns and tax provisions. This led me
into buying 100 James Hardie at 98s.
after I’d finally laid my hands on a copy
of the latest set of accounts.
Without a doubt, James Hardie is a
classic company. Its latest year (to March
31) covered what I would consider to
be the 12 worst months of recession, par-
ticularly for building. Yet James Hardie
was able to increase its net profit by
£37,000, its tax provision by £41,000
and its depreciation by £250,000. What
is particularly significant is that for the
third year in succession the tax pro-
vision overshadows the net profit this
year by £252,000. A tax provision of
£862,000 would normally indicate a true
profit of about £1,250,000, or double
the published figure. Earning rate, there-
fore, is probably closer to 36 p.c. than
the declared rate of 18 p.c. Obviously,
what James Hardie is doing is ploughing
back profits at a rate that would make
even B.H.P. blush. This can only be to
the ultimate benefit of shareholders who
have already received five bonus issues
since 1948. Another bonus issue could
well turn up in the next year or two.
While this makes James Hardie more of
a long than a short term proposition, the
shares look so good that I bought 100
just the same.
Another company in the high tax
bracket that had some more good news
last week was O’Donnell Griffin (profit
£62,000, tax £75,000 last year). O’Don-
nell Griffin announced a new joint ven-
ture with a large firm of American elec-
trical contractors but I already have
400 shares so I bought no more.
Instead I bought 200 Barrett Burston,
the maltsters, who also have a suggest-
ively high tax provision. Accounts re-
cently issued showed a tax provision of
£215,000 accompanying the £236,000
profit. If one assumes full earnings of
about. 25 p.c., the 10s. shares seem
reasonable at 21s. so I bought 200.
On the selling side, I quietly disposed
of the 25 Choiseul which had proved a
mistake. I bought them in the hope that
last month’s annual report would bring
news of a capital reconstruction. Alas, it
didn’t. The lesson cost me £23.
BOUGHT
200 Barrett Burston at 21/- £215
100 James Hardie at 98/- £497
SOLD
25 Choiseul at £lO £257
This left me in need of £4OO but own-
ing these shares:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date per rent
shares company bought share price
400 O’Donnell
Griffin 28/8/61 11/8 17/-
1,600 United Motels 20/11/61 3/9 4/3
300 Beau Monde 8/12/61 26/6 32/-
400 Auto and Gen-
eral Finance 8/2/62 19/9 23/9
500 Mauri Bros 16/2/62 22/9 23/9
400 Anderson Meat 2/3/62 12/- 13/6
100 Philip Morris 16/3/62 26/- 24/6
800 Goodwins 21 3/62 5/9 5/9
500 Peter Llovd 21/3/62 5/6 6/11
500 Ready Mixed 6/4/62 17/9 17/3
25 MLC 27/4/62 £l9/10/- £23
200 Malleys 3/5/62 20/3 21/9
500 Merica 10/5/62 7/- 7/-
500 Swan Brewery 17/5/62 19/6 18/6
1,000 Hanimex 23'5/62 4/11 5/6
300 National Consol. 30/5/62 26/1 26/-
800 Discount Facilit. 30/5/62 5/9 5/9
600 Western Mining 13/6/62 12/9 13/6
300 Marcus Clark
notes 22/6/62 27/6 28/6
200 Barrett Burston 28/6/62 21/- 21/-
100 James Hardie 29/6/62 98/- 99/-


LEADING
SHARE
PRICES
N
Last
Div.
Div.
Earn.
Earn.
Company
Par
Sale,
25/6/62
2/7/62
Rate
Yield
Rate
Yield
Value
1961
p.c.
p.c.
p.c.
p.c.
Amalgamated Chemicals .. 5/
14/3
18/
18/
12%
3.5
21.4
5.9
A.W.A
.... 5/
20/41/2
20/6
20/9
14
3.4
22
5.4
Ampol
. . . . 5/
11/4
11/8XD
12/1
14
5.8
19
7.9
A.R.C
.. .. 10/
46/3
46/
47/f
15
3.2
29.7
6.3
Associated Pulp
.. .. 20/
29/3
29/6
30/6
—
—
13.6
8.9
Aust. Chemicals
.. .. 10/
30/41/2
23/
24/5
12%
5.1
21.5
8.8
A.C.I. .. ..
.. .. 20/
72/6
66/
68/6
8-1/3
2.4
19.3
7.3
Aust. Guarantee
.... 5/
14/
12/2
12/6
15
5.9
20.3
8.0
Aust. Gypsum ..
.... 5/
14/3
15/3
14/4 Vat
10
3.4
15.9
5.1
A.P.M. .. ..
.. .. 20/
25/3
28/9
23/6txB
8
6.8
10
8.6
Bank N.S.W
.. .. £20
£34
£40
£4oy 2 t
9
4.5
12.2
6.0
Bitumen and Oil ..
.... 5/
24/
23/3
24/1
17%
3.6
32.4
7.5
Blue Metal Ind. ..
.... 5/
22/71/2
20/9f
23/2
15
3.2
27.6
6.1
Bradford Cotton
.... 5/
7/6
6/6
7/1
10
7.1
11.2
7.9
British Tobacco
.. .. 20/
25/
23/10xD
24/3
9
7.4
9.7
8.0
B.H.P
.. .. 20/
69/
56/9
59/
6%
2.1
15.5
5.3
Burns Philp
.. .. 20/
91/
£5
£5/4/
10
2.0
12.4
2.4
C.S.R
.. .. £20
£591/2
£551/4
£ 58/2/6
9%
3.3
14.8
5.1
C.A.G.A
.... 5/
11/3
11/1
10/9
10
4.7
12.2
5.7
C.I.G
.. .. 20/
£5
95/
95/
11
2.3
25.2
5.3
Commercial Union ..
.... 5/
19/3
19/3XR
20/'9fxR
6%
1.6
18.4
4.5
Concrete Ind.
.... 5/
15/11/2
13/5
14/5
10
3.5
16.6
5.8
Consolidated Zinc ..
.. .. 25/
62/6
55/
56/6B
15
6.6
11.6
Cox Bros.
.... 5/
7/6
7/7
7/4
10
6.7
11.8
8.3
Custom Credit
.... 5/
13/
11/8
11/8
15
6.4
19.5
8.4
Cyclone . . . .
.. .. 10/
26/
21/
21/4 ! /2
10
4.6
17.7
8.3
Dalgety-N.Z. Loan
.. 25/
—
37/f
35/
8
5.7
13.9
10.0
David Jones
.... 5/
18/9
17/4
18/3
12%
3.4
28.7
6.6
Drug Houses . .
.. .. 20/
69/
66/
67/1 Vat
11%
3.4
17.7
5.3
Dunlop Rubber
.. .. 20/
35/
39/
39/
10
5.1
16
8.2
Elder Smith
.. .. 12/
23/9
24/6
24/6S
10
4.9
12.6
6.1
Electronic “B”
.. .. 10/
13/3
16/3
15/9
12%
8.1
Email
.... 5/
7/6
7/6
7/9
10
6.4
11
6.0
E.Z. Ind
.. .. 10/
12/11
11/11
12/6
10
8.0
12.4
10.0
Pelt and Textiles ..
.... 5/
6/11
7/9
7/9
10
6.5
13.9
9.0
G. J. Coles
.... 5/
13/6
12/7
13/2
11
4.2
14.8
5.7
Goldsbrough
28/6
30/9
30/9
8
5.2
12.6
8.2
H. C. Sleigh . . ..
.... 5/
11/
12/9
13/
12%
4.8
13.4
5.2
Henry Jones ..
.. .. 20/
80/
79/6
80/
10
2.5
28.6
7.1
H. G. Palmer ..
.. .. 5/
15/6
17/
17/3
12%
3.6
13.5
3.9
Howard Smith .. .
. .. 20/
54/
45/3
46/7%
10
4.2
13.6
5.8
Humes
70/6
72/3
72/
14
3.9
24.6
6.9
I.A.C
13/4
13/3
13/8
16-2/3
6.1
20.6
7.5
I.C.I.A.N.Z
38/
40/6
40/6
7
3.5
9.7
4.2
J. Gadsden
.. .. 10/
15/3
17/6
17/11
8
4.5
10.4
5.8
Kandos Cement
.... 5/
—
22/6
22/6
12%
2.8
13.5
3.0
Kelvinator
.... 5/
18/3
19/5
18/4%
15
4.1
28.6
7.8
Lend Lease
.... 5/
20/
18/
18/7%
10
2.7
21.4
5.7
L. J. Hooker . .
.. .. 5/
7/
5/1
5/1
1.1*
1.0
Mercantile Credits
.... 5/
18/8
8/9
8/6
10
5.9
16.6
9.7
McPhersons
. . .. 20/
47/
41/3
41/
8-1/3
4.1
12.4
6.0
Minster
.. .. 10/
62/
75/5
71/6t
16-2/3
2.3
28.3
3.9
Moulded Products ..
.... 5/
13/2
12/3
13/6
14
5.2
7.8
2.9
Mt. Isa Mines ..
.. .. 5/
71/6
64/xD
68/9
25
1.2
62.8
4.6
Mutual Acceptance
.... 5/
8/10
10/
9/8
15
7.8
22.3
11.4
Myer
.... 5/
29/
29/9
30/6
16-2/3
2.7
28.3
4.8
National Consolidated
.... 5/
27/
26/
26/3
20
3.8
35.3
6.7
Olympic Industries
.. .. 5/
7/7
9/6
9/6
9
4.8
16.2
8.6
Peters (Vic.) ..
.... 2/
8/6
7/4
7/11
15
3.8
18.9
4.8
Petrochemical . .
.. .. 20/
26/
25/6S
25/3
6
4 7
5.9
4.6
R. M. Concrete
.... 5/
17/41/2
16/9
17/4
12%
3.5
22.9
6.5
Reid Murray ..
.... 5/
5/3
3/5
3/11
9.4
11.8
Repco
.... 5/
12/5
13/6
13/6
10
3.7
17.8
6.7
R:o Tinto
.... 5/
15/9
18/4
18/3
10
2.7
71.7
19.5
Rothmans
87/6
74/
72/6t
17%
4.8
47.7
13.1
Thiess
.. .. 5/
13/
11/
11/3
12%
5.5
14.4
4.6
Tooth
60/
69/
68/6
13%
4.0
15.9
4.4
Union Carbide ..
.. .. 20/
80/
68/
66/6?
10
3.0
15.9
4.8
Waltons
.. .. 5/
13/8
13/2
13/6
12%
4.6
19.7
7.3
Woolworths
.... 5/
15/4
15/7
15/10
12
3.8
15.4
4.9
Wormald
.... 5/
11/10
11/7
11/6
10
4.3
14.2
6.8
W. R. Carpenter . .
.... 5/
30/
33/3
33/6
15
2.2
35.1
5.4
* Estimated on last half-year’s profit.
xD Ex
Dividend.
xR Ex Rights.
S Seller.
t Mid-price.
B Buyer.
SYDNEY
STOCK EXCHANGE
INDICES
Banks,
Other
Base
All
etc.
Finance
Pastoral
Retailers
Metals
Ords.*
Industrials
December
22, 1961
.. 137.37
541.02
182.31
389.15
604.15
299.07
318.74
June 25,
1962 ..
.. 157.72
541.10
174.43
347.66
518.63
285.73
301.05
June 26,
1962 ..
.. 156.44
537.69
174.06
345.26
508.78
283.11
298.19
June 27,
1962 ..
.. 155.67
542.10
173.07
346.33
531.52
284.70
301.56
June 28,
1962 ..
.. 156.90
558.96
174.06
355.33
548.42
290.27
306.20
June 29,
1962 . .
.. 157.91
565.05
174.28
362.43
546.66
293.65
309.39
July 2, 1962
.. 158.45
559.12
175.53
368.77
548.74
294.23
309.28
* Peak 348.46 September 16, 1960
MELBOURNE
STOCK
EXCHANGE
AVERAGE YIELD
ON 100 ORDINARY SHARES
50 Other
Stocks—
Random-^,
December
22, 1961
Div. Yield Earn. Yield
4.26 6.13
Div Yield Earn
R 30
. Yield
7 46
June
25,
1862 ..
4.46
6.41
5.27
2 14
June
26,
1962 ..
• •
4.52
6.52
5.28
1 79
June
27,
1962 ..
4.50
6.49
5.29
2.05
June
28,
1862 ..
4.45
6.40
5.27
2 03
June
29,
1962 ..
4.36
6.28
5.28
2.03
July
2,
1962
4.38
6.25
5.27
2.28
SHAREMARKET SUMMARY
CAUTIOUS RISE
IN SHARES
rpHE Australian sharemarkets surprised
A themselves, and many outsiders, by
a sharp forward sprint towards the close
of the financial year. This gave a mild
reversal to quite a few weeks’ des-
pondency and indecision. It is question-
able how long the impetus can continue,
but at any rate the week opened reason-
ably well even though the rate of
advance seemed moderated.
Much the same questions as have
determined local behavior still remain
to plague us. This time of the year also
seems to wait upon Budget discussions
and the first flush of company results.
All in all, the rises were justified, though
they have not by any means dispelled
caution and selection.
Yet they have shown a modicum of
buyers waiting quite handily for oppor-
tunities. These buyers spread them-
selves fairly widely at first, so that
practically all investment sections dis-
play some benefit. A closing of the
ranks may give the first signs of some
reaction, and a dip in turnovers.
It was, of course, pleasant to watch
the markets moving more nicely in
accord with a purely domestic situation.
For most of the local economic in-
dicators suggest betterment, even if our
rate of progress has for a while to be
slower than expected earlier.
But one cannot resist the impression
that much of the advance reflected brief
overseas tendencies as well. Wall Street
has not oscillated so violently and Lon-
don preserves a fairly calm face. Aus-
tralia moved too far with these foreigners
before and can picture their move-
ments again.
Indeed, a good deal of expert examina-
tion is still being given to this question
of parallel influence—that and the Com-
mon Market. And, as was emphasised
here last week, the whole problem of
share growth must occupy considerable
expertise in the near future.
With all this said, it does appear that
a little more leader guidance could come
along over the next few weeks. BHP
was certainly not allowed to drop for
long and CSR’s report plainly pro-
vides some sight of things to come.
The end-of-year fillip, as has been
mentioned, ranged more widely, but it
is still the strength of major industrials
which must be confirmed. A fairly ex-
tensive body of retailers particularly
drew attention during the first progress.
They also, with current trading statistics
clouded, warrant further observation.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company of
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlement of claims
Directors
ALFRED S. WHITE, Esq.. Chairman, E. G. CONEN, Esq., T. K. MAGNEY, Esq.,
A. G. PARKER Esq., DOUGLAS WADLEY, E'sq.
H. H. MOULTON. Esq., Managing Director. B. J. LANE, Esq., Manager.
Phone: 27 7401 (Branches in all States) 16/20 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BURSAR
SYDNEY CHURCH OF ENGLAND
GRAMMAR SCHOOL
NORTH SYDNEY
vacant on
The position of Bursar at Shore School will become
the retirement of the present Bursar on the 30th November next.
The duties of the position will include:
(1) that of Clerk of the School Coun-
cil and Financial and Accounting
Officer of the Council, the Bursar
having his own staff of 4 clerks;
(2) that of manager under the Head-
master of school properties and of
the following employees: grounds-
man, gardeners, carpenters, paint-
ers, cleaners, office clerks, house-
keeper and kitchen staff.
Applicants should have accountancy
qualifications and some executive ex-
perience; preferably some supervisory
experience in perhaps the building
trade or catering; and if possible ex-
perience in grounds maintenance. Age
range 30 to 50 years. The commencing
salary will exceed £2,000 per annum,
based on age and experience, and it
is hoped that the man appointed will
justify more after experience in the
School. There is a Superannuation
Scheme.
■ Written applications, accompanied by copies oj
testimonials , are now invited in confidence addressed to: —
Hon. Secretary to the Council, Shore School, NORTH SYDNEY
from whom any further information may be obtained.
GOLD PRICE AND TRADE
I| / |’any an ancient orthodoxy and con-
vention is lifting a somewhat tattered
standard in the renewed debate on raising
the price of gold. One might almost be
back in the 19305, or even earlier, with
all this talk of flow, currency backing,
and so on. Most of the gold producers
have, of course, been on side for quite a
while, with only an occasional murmur of
dissent from an odd London house or
two.
But, at this present moment, far more
is involved than the prosperity of miners.
The Western world’s trading liquidity
stands at issue and must be thoroughly
restored before it meets with serious
breakdown.
There are certainly a number of mone-
tary devices which could oil the wheels
of trade. Yet in view of the peculiar
American situation, and America's central
financial and commercial position, a rise
in the gold price seems to many the best
and quickest solution.
Seen from a world outlook, the re-
straint on liquidity has become much
more obvious recently, being particularly
illuminated by the US domestic currency
crisis and the first clear weakening of
the dollar. Though a proper connection
between trade and liquidity is hard to
work out, a definite money level has to
exist to enable international trade to
develop efficiently.
One authority asserts that, over the
past 10 years, liquidity has risen by some
34 p.c., while in the same period the
volume of world trade has increased 57
p.c. Such a continuing trend would freeze
up both the exchange system and the
free movement of goods from country to
country.
The United States has endured an
adverse balance-of-payments for some
years now. The very outflow of dollars
resulting therefrom provides the life-
blood of world trade, since it remains the
principal addition and stimulation to
international reserves.
Yet the same movement enfeebles
America’s own reserves. Suspicion of the
dollar led also to a great outflow of gold.
So, as well, the actual US gold reserve
diminishes and the whole deficit condi-
tion weakens more.
Shoring up these reserves by tempor-
ary borrowing of other currencies does
not really help the US or other trading
countries And failing development of a
rational world system of paper money, it
seems to many that the quickest avail-
able move is to lift the actual value of
US gold reserves by a radical rise in the
now fixed gold price.
Never one to do things by halves, the
British economist Sir Roy Harrod
suggests doubling the price to 70 dollars
an ounce, enabling “the American
authorities to tide over the present deficit
for a longer period without taking
unneighborly measures”.
Sir Roy argues that the rise would
not only lower the flow of capital from the
US, but also revivify American exports,
thus doubly bettering the payments crisis.
But the Kennedy Administration sets its
face against a gold price adjustment,
hoping to pour life into the economy by
other means.
Much of the programme of larger
internal investment, of increasing home
activity, would have had the support of
the great Maynard Keynes, for it leads
to high purchases from other countries.
Given large reserves of international
liquidity, all trade becomes facilitated.
It is the dilemma of this urgent liqui-
dity and solidly based American solvency
which remains the immediate problem.
Hence the recourse to speedy cures —and
the gold way might be one of the
speediest.
America’s rejection of the method has
looked fairly firm. A recent wave of
speculation in gold and mine shares
faded reasonably fast. But Australian
investors should keep close to develop-
ments.
LINKS SOUGHT
WITH AUST.
JT'hese business opportunities with
American firms are announced by
the US Consulate-General, and persons
interested may obtain additional in-
formation from the Commercial Section
of the Consulate-General.
Morgan Adhesives Company, manu-
facturers, of Stow, Ohio (USA), desire to
appoint Australia-wide distributors for
their self-adhesive decorative vinyl
“Dex”. Samples and prices are available
from the US Consulate-General, 7
Wynyard Street, Sydney.
Kwik-Speed Corporation, of Dayton,
Ohio, desires to export its plastic bicycle
pedals, electric scissors, and pressure
sensitive discs and holders to Australia.
Amtro Corporation SA, of Los Ange-
les, California, desires to license an Aus-
tralian firm to manufacture the “Aqua-
Dart”, a new water sports-craft. The
Aqua-Dart is self-propelled and travels
at speeds up to 50 mph.
The American manufacturer claims
that the “Dart” is enjoying a tremendous
success in the US, even though it was in-
troduced only last February. The Aqua-
Dart is a fibre-glass sea-sled design T 9”
in length powered with a centrally
mounted outboard type engine.


*
CARRY THE
RURDEN
m
Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The Atlas’ has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
{England)
N.S.IV. Branch:
Kindersley House,
Hligdi O’Connell Sts., Sydney
MARKETING
SURPRISES IN
TRADE
MARK SURVEY
A survey, conducted by the Australian
'*"*■ Association of National Advertisers
to measure the degree to which trade
marks have registered with the public,
will soon be released. The trade marks
have been used in the advertisements of
national advertisers as a protection
against the infringement of rights in the
same way as the word “copyright” is
used.
There is reason to believe that the
release of the survey will show some
surprising results.
Some well regarded companies here
achieved a low rating among the public.
The survey covered the advertising of
26 companies. Another 26 will be in
the next survey.
UNILEVER'S DEBUTANTE
TTictorian grocers have been getting
* “the treatment” as never before
in recent weeks, what with Campbell’s
and Unilever showing their full hands
at streamlined P.R. and launching
massive advertising campaigns to make
selling in the shops ipsomatic.
Talking to some of these grocers at
the opening of Unilever’s mashed
potato factory at Ballarat last week,
one got the impression they expected
to be pampered by the big food and
soap manufacturers, as indeed they
are in more ways than one. They still
remember a huge ice cream cake
emblazoned in OMO colors that had
to be wheeled out untouched on an-
other promotion occasion. They take
the hospitality from the likes of
Campbell’s, Unilever and Colgates in
their stride, look to the national ad-
vertising campaigns, particularly on
TV, to make the soft sell and expect
the manufacturers to give them a free
hand in making their own prices (even
Unilever does this now.)
No Australian housewife had ever
made her mash from a packet before
Unilever wooed her to do so last
year in Queensland, where its experi-
mental plant at Lowood, near Bris-
bane, started turning out flakes by the
EURL process developed by the
US Department of Agriculture.
For as long as she could remember
she’d been going to the grocer,
lumping home a load of potatoes,
peeling, washing, boiling and mashing
to her heart’s content. It was part of
the Australian way of life.
Overall last year we ate 11.4 lb. of
potatoes a head. This is slightly more
than in America, but only about a
third of the per capita consumption
in Germany and Belgium and less
than half that in Scandinavian
countries.
Nobody knows what percentage of
potatoes eaten in Australia is mashed.
But of the 540,000 tons of potatoes
grown here —about half the nation’s
total vegetable crop in terms of weight
—probably more is served up in
mashed form than any other. Uni-
lever is probably hoping for a big
rise in immigration from Northern
Europe to boost its sales of flake,
but reckons it can’t otherwise expect
much change in the country’s potato-
eating habits, only a rising preference
for doing potatoes the easy way.
Farmers around Ballarat are al-
ready thinking of farming the easy
way because most of them are already
on Unilever’s growers’ panel. If the
grocers present at the opening of the
Ballarat factory were blase, the as-
sembled legions of potato growers were
openly jubilant about the newly-found
guaranteed market for their crops.
It was not the first time the district
had drawn its wealth from the
ground. Perhaps, slyly, some of them
wondered if the Unilever inspector
would be there to police any covert
attempt to load a truck or two of
spuds for a booming Sydney market,
or if the company’s insect killers
were as good as they were cracked
up to be and days of blight were over.
Thus far at any rate the leviathan
had been as good as his word and
erected his <£750,000 factory in not
much more time than it takes to
grow a crop of potatoes (21 weeks
from start of construction to the
factory’s first product run). It was
wonderful for them and Ballarat
that about £1 million could flow into
the district so readily.
But if they thought about it, Mr
Unilever is exceptionally well pursed
up and this is only one of his 500
companies operating around the
globe. His world turnover in 1961
was well over £2OOO million (in
Australian currency) and at the end
of last year he had close on £750
million working capital to play with.
How much of this is in Australia
to fertilise the operations of his ten
companies, again nobody seems to
know. But he has 4680 on his pay-
roll here and on his performance in
capturing an increasing slice of the
food and detergent markets in recent
years, mopping up ice cream com-
panies and so forth, he is obviously
not short of Australian chips.
So packeted mashed potato flake
will not be the last of his debutantes
introduced here. It is simply the
latest. If he follows his form there
could be a lot more.
Soap is not nearly as relatively
important to the group as it used to
be. Detergents and toothpaste are
recent kings, but there are a lot more
products high in the court, such as
cosmetics, margarine and edible fats,
canned foods, ice cream, animal feed-
ing stuffs and others.
Last year the group bought close
on £6 million of Australian primary
products, tallow being the biggest
buy. This year it will be buying
more and the “spud cockeys” of
Ballarat will be newcomers on the
receiving end of Unilever’s largesse.
J.C.H.


CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on Bth March, 1950.
PER ANNUM
4YEARS
FUNDS MAY BE WITHDRAWN IN A PERSONAL EMERGENCY
APPLICATIONS MUST BE MADE ON THE FORM ATTACHED
TO THE PROSPECTUS, WHICH IS NOW AVAILABLE FROM:
AIS Branches of the Company's Bankers
THE BANK OF N.S.W.
The Company's Offices,
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Fir., Empire House, Corner Wharf and Queen Streets.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street.
NEWCASTLE WEST: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter Street.
WAGGA: 147 Bayiiss Street.
Any Member of the Stock Exchange
BROKERS:
RALPH W. KING & YUIU (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
TRUSTEES FOR THE NOTEHOLDERS:
Bankers & Traders Insurance Company Limited
CC.137A8
MARKETING AND ADVERTISING
560m. PEOPLE
CAN BE "SOLD"
Tn four countries of South West Asia—
India, Pakistan, Burma and Ceylon
there is a potential market of 560
million people waiting to be supplied
with Australian goods. Those 560
million buy £A. 1518 million worth of
imported goods annually—and yet Aus-
tralia’s share is only 1.8 p.c. of the total.
That means that 98.2 p.c. (<£A.1490.6
million) of imports come from countries
other than Australia, many of them
much farther away than we are.
These facts are included in Volume 2
of the A.A.N.A.’s Export market review
which embraces almost every scrap of
information it is possible to get about
export opportunities in these four
countries. The review is now in the
hands of the printer, and Mr John Bow-
den, Director of the A.A.N.A., expects
delivery in three weeks.
Mr. Bowden says that the informa-
tion gathered and incorporated in the
review shows that there is an almost un-
limited field in South West Asia for
Australian goods, but he stresses that to
get the best results the goods must be
specially manufactured for export; they
should not be just surplus stocks. The
review explains why this is so essential.
There is no shadow of doubt that
South West Asia offers Australian
manufacturers a wide open market. It
appears that the main reasons why Aus-
tralian goods have not been more
popular there are:
® Australians in the past have made
little attempt to sell with a properly
organised campaign;
® South West Asians have not been
made aware of the quality and
variety of Australian goods available
by large scale advertising.
Now that the Common Market
threatens to carve slices off our exports
of primary and secondary goods, manu-
facturers and producers are seeking
other outlets, and they may be expected
to take more seriously the opportunities
awaiting them in South West Asia and
other countries.
The recent Australian Trade Mission
to the Middle East brought back im-
portant information about export
opportunities there, but it stressed that
the lack of direct, regular shipping
facilities was an obstacle that must be
overcome But this obstacle does not
exist in regard to exports to South West
Asia; there are regular, direct shipping
services to these countries at least twice
a month.
W.M.R.
FLURRY OVER QUEENSLAND NEW POISON LAW
TThe exclusive announcement in The
A Bulletin last week that Queens-
land’s health authorities had imposed
drastic restrictions upon the labelling
and packaging of pharmaceutical goods,
vitamin preparations, insecticides,
fungicides, cosmetics, etc., caused a
flurry in advertising circles. Few
agencies knew even that legislation was
proposed, and the revelation that it was
in fact in operation spread a wave of
consternation in some quarters.
. T , , , TT
Now the Commonwealth Health De-
partment in Canberra is on the move
again, seeking a conference with pharma-
ceutical goods manufacturers to con-
sider the Queensland authorities’ hasty
action.
The secretary of the N.S.W. Advisory
Committee on Poison (Mr Fleming)
says that in whatever way labels and
packages are designed and however the
word “Poison” is displayed and colored,
the one great problem is the care with
which parents handle the products in
the house. “Not all the laws in the
world,” he said, “will protect children
from poisonous substances if parents
carelessly leave them within a child s
reach.
Following the announcement of
Queenslan(fs new law> manu facturers in
other States—NSW, Victoria and South
Australia are the most vitally affected—
are sure to make strong protests. They
have a lot to lose if Queensland’s
action is followed by other States.


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
QUEENSLAND'S FUTURE DEPENDS ON
CHANGES IN LAND LAWS
BY C. W. RUSSELL
Queensland is not attracting its fair
share of either overseas or Austral-
ian capital investment. The Federal
'Treasurer (Mr Holt) placed a penetrat-
ing finger on one of the State’s main
running sores when he focused atten-
tion on its system of land tenure and
advised the Government of Queensland
to change it.
Traditionally inclined to blame every-
one but itself for its lack of develop-
ment, Queensland today still regards its
land as the heritage of the people and
seems more than ever before in the grip
of this obsession. Unless something is
done about it Australia as a whole could
be considerably poorer for it.
Queensland today is still the only
State in Australia that refuses security of
tenure to the majority of its landholders,
and as a direct result of that policy two
thirds of its 667,000 sq. miles can hardly
be called occupied territory.
The State has only 72,000 people in
this area, and some sections of it have
fewer people than they had at the turn
of the century. Croydon Shire, bigger
than Belgium, has a population of 318;
and areas bigger than Ireland like the
Diamentina, Bulloo and Carpentaria
Shires, have populations ranging from
240 to 600. There are only 3,500 people
in the Gulf Country, an area the size
of England and Wales.
Development of this area, so far as
water and roads are concerned, has
never been properly considered. The area
in recent years has become the victim
of parochial politics.
Low Productivity
Threatened with the European Com-
mon Market, Australia looks for in-
creased primary production and conse-
quently lowered production costs yet
Queensland today has fewer sheep than
it had in 1911. Its meatworks close at
regular intervals because it can’t keep
up the supply of cattle. The Brigalow
Belt alone could supply all the cattle
these works can handle.
The reason for this disastrous riddle
can only be found if one accepts the
premise that food production in any
country is directly related to its land
administration policies.
In the Soviet bloc, where the State
owns all the land, and similarly in Com-
munist China, food production is the
ONLY weapon they have NOT got in
the cold war. In America, where the
reverse applies, food production reaches
such fantastic levels that its surpluses
actually threaten entire world markets.
In Australia all States, except Queens-
land, show remarkable increases in food
production and all States except
Queensland offer secure tenure either
through freeholding or perpetual lease.
Terminable Leases
In Queensland, land settlement re-
volves basically around a system of short
term terminable leases. The State Gov-
ernment is the biggest landholder in
the world outside the Soviet bloc. It
owns no less than 85.6 p.c. of the State,
and has 249 million acres tied up in
pastoral leases alone.
For nearly half a century this system
of terminable leasehold has left the
State with an uneasy collection of Crown
tenants, and has locked the door against
major Australian or overseas capital in-
vestment in land development.
The reason for this is comparatively
simple. Farmers and graziers, private
firms or major companies like to own
their own land. It gives them security of
tenure, borrowing strength, the advant-
ages of unearned increment, and the op-
portunity to plough money back into
the land without fear of having their
rentals increased, or whole sections of
their properties taken away from them
with little or no compensation which
happens repeatedly in Queensland.
Leases are “flogged to death” in their
closing stages, and nobody in his senses
would contemplate major developmental
work in Queensland under the termin-
able lease system.
What is the alternative facing Queens-
land —and Australia? To run to Can-
berra with grandiose schemes for clear-
ing and developing, or to change its
system of land tenure, as Mr Holt has
suggested, and let private enterprise get
on with the job? Freeholding, or at
least secure tenure, is the real answer.
There seems little doubt that a huge
inflow of Australian and overseas capi-
tal could be expected if Queensland
abandoned its essentially Socialist atti-
tude towards land development —and
closer settlement would walk hand in
hand behind it as it has done every-
where else in the world.
Queensland needs help to develop
her resources, but on this matter surely
Australia is entitled to expect her to first
help herself.
Long Overdue
Mr Holt’s advice to change the system
of land tenure is timely and long over-
due. The medicine he offers may prove
unpalatable to the State’s mixed-up non-
Labor coalition Government but until
it is taken, Queensland will remain the
weak sister in a nation which really can-
not afford to carry a hypochondriac.
One of the chief reasons why the
party is afraid of changing the traditional
policy is that there has never been put
forward an alternative to the system of
balloting for expired leases. It is politi-
cally unpopular to suggest that young
men without capital should be denied
the opportunity to acquire land.
Nobody has suggested that this type
of prospective settler should be denied
land. On the contrary, there would be
much more land available quickly for
such settlers. The Government could ac-
quire, by way of purchase, developed
freehold land when suitable for closer
settlement. It would then sell the land
on a conditional purchase basis over a
period of years to successful applicants.
Alternatively, the developers of the land
could settle people themselves as the
A.M.P. did in South Australia. But what
a hopeless mess the political parties have
drifted into.
Party Policy Problems
Former Queensland Liberal Party
president and member for Aspley, Mr
F. Campbell, let the cat out of the coali-
tion bag during the State’s recent two-
day special meeting of Parliament; and
what a mangey old alley cat it appears
to be.
According to Mr Campbell, Liberal
Party policy and principles must always
be looked at from the viewpoint of the
“best interests of the State” and
where there is conflict, Liberal Party
policy and principles must be jetti-
soned!
In the more sophisticated southern
States, not even the wildest political tyro
would go on record with a statement that
his Party does in fact have policies and
principles that COULD conflict with


the best interests of the State it helps
to govern.
But Mr Campbell’s naive contribution
passed without a ripple of comment from
his own members, and met with warm
approval from the Country Party, which
is the senior party in the coalition
and by now an accepted past master
of the gentle art of forgetting about
such abstract matters as policy and prin-
ciple once in Government.
Is this frame of mind the reason for
the failure of the State’s first non-Labor
coalition Government for a quarter of
a century to put its announced policy
into effect? It has alienated its friends
and even mystified its enemies by ‘'out-
socialising the Socialists”, to quote the
words of an indignant Country Party
branch president.
Liberal Senator, lan Wood, no great
admirer of Mr Menzies or Mr Holt,
has claimed that both of them are “public
heroes” in Queensland compared with
Mr Nicklin and Mr Morris, Premier
and Deputy-Premier respectively, des-
pite the Federal landslide of last De-
cember. And there are few if any politi-
cians in Queensland with an ear more
tightly tuned to the pulse of grass-root
politics than lan Wood.
Mr Holt must certainly have been
given food for thought when he gave this
eminently sensible advice about land
tenure to his unpredictable Queensland
counterparts.
DAIRYING
STATE EMBLEM—A COW?
Victoria should adopt a cow as its
State emblem. Of 69,500 farms in
Victoria 27,000, or 40 per cent., are
licensed dairy farms.
Of 105,000 people directly engaged
in agriculture in Victoria, 30 per cent,
are dairy farmers. Another 7,000 are
employed in dairy factories and proces-
sing plants.
Investment in the State’s dairy farms
and factories totals £3OO million. And
Victoria, with little more than 30 per
cent, of Australia’s dairy cows, now pro-
duces 45 per cent, of all Australian dairy
products.
NEW CLASSES AT SHEEP SHOW
for extra strong wool Poll
Merino rams and ewes will be pro-
vided at the 1963 Sydney Sheep Show.
These will be the same as in the other
open sections, that is for rams and ewes
under 1 1 years old, under two years,
over two and under three years, and
over three years. Championships will
also be provided.
DRIED FRUITS
RECORD HARVEST BRINGS PROBLEM
HThe 1962 dried fruit harvest of 93,650
tons is the second biggest in the 75-
year history of the Australian dried fruit
industry.
Good harvesting conditions boosted
the Sunraysia sultana crop to an all-time
record 78,450 tons nearly 9,000 tons
more than in 1953. Currants (7,700
tons) and raisins (7,500 tons) were, how-
ever, well down on previous good years.
The industry, which now has more
than 60,000 people dependent upon it
in small towns and settlements scattered
over a distance of 350 miles, has come
a long way since its first 5-ton harvest
in 1891. But its very success has pro-
duced serious marketing problems.
Australians eat only a little over 41b.
of dried fruits a head each year. This
means a crop of 20,000 tons is enough
to meet home needs. The rest about
73,000 tons this year must be sold
abroad on less profitable j larkets.
Our biggest export markets are Brit-
ain, Canada and New Zealand. Britain
takes an average of about 35,000 tons.
All three countries allow our dried fruit
free access, while raising duties of
various sizes against foreign dried fruit.
In Britain this Commonwealth prefer-
ence is worth £2 a ton on currants and
£B/10/- a ton on our big sultana (and
smaller raisin) pack. If Britain er+ers the
Common Market elimination of these
preferences would be a serious blow' for
the dried fruit industry.
Much more serious, however, is the
possibility of one or both of the two
big European dried fruit producers
Greece and Turkey entering the
Market, too.
It would be hard enough for Austra-
lia to have to battle these low-cost pro-
ducers on even terms for a share of the
British market without them getting free
access while we faced a tariff. The w'orld
dried fruit market is uncertain and de-
pressed enough without Common Market
worries. And, unfortunately, the world
trend in dried fruit production appears
to be downward.
The Sunraysia industry has spent more
than £300,000 on promotion and pub-
licity within Australia in the last eight
or nine years and has barely managed
to hold consumption steady. This year
the industry is stepping up its spending
to £BO,OOO as part of a five-year drive
for greater domestic consumption. But
in the United States, where astronomical
sums have been spent on promotion,
consumption has declined steadily to 1.3
lb. a head.
It would appear that sooner or later
the Australian industry will have to face
the unpalatable fact that it is grossly
overproducing and that a painful con-
traction must take place. This would
have serious repercussions for some of
the townships along the Murray which
rely heavily on dried fruits.
The situation has shown the foresight
of the Australian Dried Fruits Associa-
tion, which has opposed unrestricted ex-
pansion of planting in recent years.
BUTTER CONSUMPTION
NZ LEADS THE WORLD
VTew Zealanders eat more butter per
head than any other nation in the
world. Annual consumption there is 43.3
lb a head, according to 1960 figures com-
piled by the Commonwealth Economic
Committee. This compares with Aus-
tralia's 25.1 lb a head.
Ireland is the only other country in
the world which eats more than 40 lb a
head. Finland is well up with 33.7 lb.
But big dairy-producer, the Netherlands,
is well down with a butter consumption
of only 10.4 lb a head. This is probably
because the Netherlanders consume 43.9
lb of margarine a head as well, com-
pared w'ith 9.4 lb in Australia. Even the
dairy-conscious Danes offset their 23.8 lb
of butter with 42.11 lb of margarine.
Britain, Australia's biggest and most
important dairy customer, eats 18.1 lb
of butter a head as against 15.2 lb of
margarine. Biggest margarine eaters are
the Norwegians with 52.7 lb a head
(butter 8.6 lb).
The fat-wary Americans shy clear of
butter spreads. Butter consumption in
the United States is only 7.5 lb a head
and margarine is barely higher at 9.4 lb.
SHOW CHIEF ON TOUR
The director of the Royal Agricultural
Society of NSW, Mr W. N. Parry-
Okeden, has gone to England to attend
the English Royal Show at Newcastle
upon Tyne. He will have discussions
relating to the Royal Agricultural Society
of the Commonwealth, which embraces
England, Scotland, Ulster, Wales, Aus-
tralia. Canada, New Zealand, Kenya,
Southern Rhodesia and other parts of
the British Commonwealth.
Mr Parry-Okeden will return early in
August via the United States and
Canada.
He will visit as many agricultural
shows as possible during his short tour
and watch out for new attractions for
the 1963 Sydney Show.


Missing Friends
Would EDWARD THOMAS SAMEUL ROLFE
(perhaps also known as Edward Thomas or
Thomas Edward) whose former address was
No. 20 Ellesmere Street, Goulburn, New South
Wales who left Ingleburn Army Camp on the
2nd March, 1952 while undergoing National
Service Training and has not been seen by
his family since that date, or any person
knowing his whereabouts contact either his
Mother at No. 20 Ellesmere Street, Goulburn,
New South Wales or J. C. WALSH & SONS,
Solicitors, 21 Montague Street, Goulburn, New
South Wales, as monies are due to him from
the Estate of his late Father, Charles Edward
Rolfe. When last seen by his Mother his
description was:—Height: 5’ 8”, Build: Slight,
Color of hair: Light Brown, Color of eyes:
Blue Grey, Complexion: Fair, Distinguishing
Marks: V shaped scar on bridge of nose between
the eyes, Teeth: Three false teeth in front of
top row. He was also pigeon toed.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
In Divorce
TO: ERIC WALTER BARKER late of 54 Jack-
son Estate, Cribb Island near Brisbane,
Queensland.—TAKE NOTICE that SYLVIA
DOROTHEA BARKER has filed a petition for
.divorce No. 1423 of 1962 on the grounds of
desertion and separation. If you wish to defend
you must file an answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Building,
Macquarie Street, Sydney on or before Bth
August, 1962. You may obtain copies of the
petition and notice of petition without charge
from McINTOSH, ADRIAN & FELLOWS, Solici-
tors, of 27 Hunter Street, Sydney. If you do
not wish to file an answer but wish to receive
a copy of each document filed in the pro-
ceedings you should file a notice of address
for service on or before such date. C. A. H.
HARMS. Registrar.
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT, 1959
IN THE STATE OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
TO: NORA ROWLANDS.—TAKE NOTICE that
DOREEN MERYL HEPSIBAH LEGH has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 206 of 1962 against
Edmund Dawson Legh on the grounds of
adultery and named you as Co-respondent. If
you wish to defend, you may file an answer in
the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney on or before the 10th
day of August 1962 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from JONES, JONES
& JONES, Solicitors, 76-78 Clarence Street,
Sydney, City Agents for Rex G. Drew, Solici-
tor, 236 Liverpool Road, Ashfield. G. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: DULCIE JEAN WHITEHEAD.—TAKE NOTICE
that ROBERT THOMAS WHITEHEAD has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 2184 of 1961 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or excuse
for two years and upwards and on the ground
of separation. If you wish to defend you may
enter an Answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney by. the 11th
day of August 1962, and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from W. A. MAYNE,
Solicitor, 28 Martin Place. Sydney.
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT 1959.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA
MC 4 of 1962
TO: LEONARD LOUIS JOHNSON formerly of 8
Tolosa Street, Glenorchy in Tasmania but whose
present address is unknown. —TAKE NOTICE
that Patricia Johnson has filed a Divorce Peti-
tion against you on the ground of desertion.
Included in the Petition is a claim for custody
of the children of the marriage and costs. AND
TAKE NOTICE that if you intend to defend the
Petition you must file an answer within 28 days
of the publication of this Notice at the Registry
of the Supreme Court in Tasmania, Macquarie
Street, Hobart in Tasmania from which address
further information can be obtained otherwise
the Court may hear and determine the pro-
ceedings in your absence. DATED the 21st day
of June 1962. Sgd. C Brettingham-Moore, REGIS-
TRAR. BUTLER McINTYRE & BUTLER, 22
Murray Street, Hobart Solicitors for the Peti-
tioner.
THE JET AGE
THE VICTORIANS AND THEIR JETPORT
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
T ast month’s non-stop flight of a
Qantas Boeing from Singapore to
Sydney across the Nullabor Plains was a
galling reminder to Melbourne of its lack
of facilities for jet-age aircraft. The
Boeing, bound for Perth, was unable to
land there owing to fog and instead flew
straight on to Sydney, a distance of 4458
miles. It could not land at Melbourne
because the main airport, Essendon, can-
not handle such large planes, and this
is a growing grievance in the southern
State.
Over three years ago the Minister for
Civil Aviation, Senator Shane Paltridge,
announced that Melbourne would get a
jetport of international standards, adding
that the project was being given “high
priority”. Things looked encouraging
when an expert committee sat dov/n
immediately to decide on a site for the
new airport. As well as Civil Aviation
officials it included State Government
representatives, town planning experts
and representatives of Qantas and the two
domestic airlines. It recommended siting
the jetport at Tullamarine, 10 miles from
Melbourne and about three-and-a-half
miles beyond the steam-age airport at
Essendon.
The inevitable outcry from local resi-
dents and pressure groups followed (the
Korman companies owned a big slice of
land in the area affected) but in May,
1959, the Federal Government announced
it would acquire the necessary, land.
Senator Paltridge promised a “buffer
zone” to shield local residents from the
noise and said only 70 families would be
obliged to shift and only 12 of these
in the near future.
When the Sydney “Daily Telegraph”
correspondent wrote in early 1960 that
the establishment of a new international
airport at Melbourne “could mean the
beginning of the end for Sydney as Aus-
tralia’s premier international air traffic
centre” the fat was in the fire. For the
Victorians it confirmed their worst sus-
picions that perfidious New South Wales
was pressurising the Federal Government
out of proceeding at Tullamarine. A
statement by Sydney Lord Mayor, Aider-
man Jensen, that NSW must “fight for the
retention of Mascot” as the nation’s main
air terminal raised the Melbourne per-
spective still higher.
Yet the “Telegraph” writer had a case.
He argued that two international jetports
455 miles apart would not be economical
for the airlines. “In an hour’s flight from
Sydney to Melbourne these jets would
hardly reach their economic cruising alti-
tude when it would be time for descent”;
and he estimated the cost of the hop at
£BO0 —far too high to be justified by
the number of passengers carried. He
suggested that the Federal Government
had promised both cities their inter-
national airports to placate local interests.
Senator Paltridge, however, reassured
Melbourne it would have its new airport
and in the same breath told Sydney that
Mascot would remain the chief inter-
national terminal. Some Tullamarine
land was acquired (one grazier got
£383,182 for his property) but an
announcement by Paltridge in August,
1961, that the project would be deferred
brought another huge outcry from Vic-
torian State, municipal and business
leaders. Paltridge said that the Govern-
ment wanted firm advice from the domes-
tic airlines on their jet re-equipment plans
before proceeding with work at Tulla-
marine. He coupled this with an
announcement that another £3 million
would be spent on extending Sydney’s
airport.
Victorian tempers again flared and out
of the furore a committee was set up by
the State Government to press the State’s
claims. This included Lord Mayor Cr
Nathan, the Minister for State Develop-
ment, Mr Fraser, and representatives of
the Victorian Promotion Committee.
T ast month the committee issued its
report, which was widely read as
saying that Victoria should “go it alone”
in building the Tullamarine jetport. It
suggested establishment of an indepen-
dent Airport Authority which would
share the capital cost with the State and
Federal Governments if the latter was
unable or unwilling to proceed with the
Tullamarine project.
So much enthusiastic publicity was
given to the idea that Cr Nathan had to
issue a statement denying that his com-
mittee had recommended that Victoria
should build its own jetport: “The report
makes it perfectly clear,” he said, “that
the responsibility for the provision of an
international jet airport in Melbourne lies
squarely with the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment.” The airport authority scheme
was only to be suggested in the event of
the Commonwealth failing to meet this
responsibility. “So far” added Cr Nathan,
“the State Government has not tackled
the Federal Government in the manner
recommended in the report”. It will be
interesting to see Senator Faltridgc’s
counter-move to Cr Nathan’s inspired
gambit.


Feiffer
make
Move,
Jackie
frW-
MEuJ MAKE youß Move,
UICKI 60^
I POIO'T
MAKE MM
MOVE
(AJTIL MEW
MAKE
YOUR
MOVE
JACKIE
BOM-
HCW TlWlM' T(RO\lO\<e
Mt IUTC> A
STRIKE,
Mi aa
doy?
I AWT
scarp?
O' WR
FIR6T
STRIKE, •
TJACkTie '
BtW-
MR ME Of WR'O,
K)iC<i 60<i '
I 60T ME v ’
A STROfJ6^
• 6ECOND \\
' STRIKE \
CAPABILITY-!
AIO' I 60T
Mf THP
IMEViTAgie ■ ;
TIP? o'
HI4TORM,
iTACPIf 004.
AO' I AlOf
J6s' MJHISUM'
PRAVPA
POUT CROU)P H£ a)|TK
MOIOM,
me
tfOUR
Hove
OR
dm
OFF.
I 501" MM
PEOPLE
IOOKIkY Ok),
JACKIE &0M
yew
OACK OFF
Ak)' M'Ek)
I'LL
BACK' OFF-
AifOT I GO T MY-
people iMK-\St
Ik)' Ok), ' rtX
MICKI
Y£W BACK \\
Of? A (M
Lime aky w*
111 back W
OFF A -r>
LITTLE- / <
new
FlRtf,
Jackie
B<H
EITHEK
1 /JM' •
MAKE
HOUR
MOVE-
MICKI 9M-
JeST Pf>
Ae rl
yew v
MAKf '
WUR6.
I SVRE
U)l6 h
SOME-
BODY
MXAP
MAKE
HIS
MOVE,
JACKIE
004,
THrM COUL9 ML
60 \\OU£, '
(JiCKi
Bw.
I'M
WAlfltf'
OO MA',
MAKf HOUR MOVE ,
(OICKI .
MA.KE: '
mic-
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 700
ACROSS
I—One1 —One aspect of a stone promises to pay —that's
funny! (9)
6—Undarkened leger. (5)
8 — Harm saints involved in a railway disaster. (5, 5)
9 Fight a case. (3)
12 — Can Lee change sufficiently to tie up shoes, for
example? (6)
13— Material for weaving two famous fighting forces,
one of them being quite backward. (6)
16—Safer nets containing haberdashery. (9)
18— A century or private dog. (5)
19— Hold King George with Cleopatra's killer.
20 — The first man to murder
ounces has none, I see, of
the modern geological era.
(9)
21 — Centre adjustment of the
near past. (6)
22 — Put other footwear on dis-
orderly heroes. (2-4)
26 —Black aircraft fitting on a
stove. (3)
27 — Menzies after winning the
lottery collections for pre-
sentation purposes. (3-2, 5)
28 — Father takes a pen and food
is evident. (5)
29 — They’re the opposite chats.
(9)
DOWN
1— “Pop" number as a husband
(accused of being one of 2-
down) appears to his wife?
(6, 6)
2 Cribs naturally before the
Queen’s men who go after
young girls. (6-9)
3 Pick-me-up keynote. (5)
4 Seen on letters from gov-
ernment units of electrical
resistance. (4)
5 Neither good nor bad
distress signal, love. (2-2)
7 —How are mug batsmen
wastrels? (4-3-8)
10—Anchor damaged in the
Latin American station. (6)
11—Unstumpable earnings
when we get more. (3, 9)
14 — Inform against a pretty
girl. (5)
15— Clear jelly noticed in
Korda’s pictures. (5)
17 —Country cooking utensil in
one of our trading banks.
(6)
23 The sixth letter that is a
girl’s name. (5)
24 — Of animal life at the end of
20-across. (4)
25 — Somebody like Sibelius
Sawyer’s buddy. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 699


m
BY APPOINTMENT TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD.
FOR THE SCOTCH WITH A CHARACTER ALL ITS OWN
ask for
“Johnnie Walker”
THE SCOTCH OF SCOTCH
fr*' 7 -
Now in miniatures, 5 oz.
flasks, 13 oz. in flasks and
square bottles, and the pop-
ular 26 oz. square bottles.
BORN 1820 —STILL GOING
STRONG
