

The Bulletin
26-PAGI! FINANCE SECTION
IpRIL 7
ONE SHILLING
NCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
A STEAK IN THE COUNTRY
PR in the Bush
WHEN EXECUTIVES CRACK UP
Life sometimes ends at 40
THAT CERTAIN BOOK
Oliver Twist
W , V; I ;
VICTORIA’S BOLTE
• • #v
'be pf
H, */h %
m>4
r! in il,, rti-silisi f/~,v tr'in <W)1 ccmv hv ■fjnxt O C fl " •/ r:-.


You can buy
peace of mind!
Moq no\ Aioqs [Biqnp\[ jaq
SB
I
m
:
■
Wt
HH
m
m
t .
HH
IHMI
■
mm
m
m
Wm
f fb
I ■* i •
m
I
Mr
■
r
£ wmmss&
m
~
m
\*»
W
v \
■
\
\ %
mm
f
' x i
388888!
0
. V •■•
-<-*+/
m
a
¥1
ir|.
3
The greatest luxury a man can have is peace of
mind .. . the knowledge that he will have more than
just the bare minimum to live upon in retirement
and that whatever the future may hold, his wife and
family will be free from financial fears. Yet this
greatest of luxuries is also one of the cheapest
to own.
Besides the peace of mind it gives you, a policy
with City Mutual carries with it many other benefits.
For one thing, it partly pays for itself because you
can deduct the premiums from your income tax.
Moreover, City Mutual is an all-Australian Society
with no shareholders all its distributable surplus
goes directly to you in the form of regular bonuses.
Your life assurance programme, like any other
financial plan, must be properly designed to meet
your family’s changing needs and your own personal
ambitions.
Let the City Mutual help you keep it up-to-date.
Your passport to peace of mind a policy with
THE
CITY MUTUAL
LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
(Incorporated in N.S. W. in 1878)
Head Office: 60-66 Hunter Street, Sydney Telephone 8W2021


NEVILLE CHAMBERLAIN.. page 63
“Look Back at Anguish”
Victoria’s Bolte .. .. .. 13
A Steak in the Country .. .. 16
Crusader Fred Schwarz .. .. 18
Pritchard: A Tall Order .. .. 20
When Executives Crack Up .. 20
General Salan: Timid Face of
Treason .. .. .-. 22
Governor Gipps Father of In-
flation .. .. .. 32
Australia Gets a Hearing .. 34
Free Trade on Trial .. • • 36
Sir Edgar Barton Coles .. .. 40
Speculator’s Diary .. .. 45
Man on the Land . .. .. 58
Sargent Without Discipline .. 60
That Certain Book: Oliver Twist 64
•
NATIONAL NOTEBOOK 4
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
AROUND ADELAIDE 9
AROUND MELBOURNE 11
OVERSEAS 22
FORUM 25
LETTERS 28
FEIFFER 31
WILD CAT 34
REVIEWS 60
RED PAGE 63
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; Phone: 27 5C71.
Vol. 83
No. 4286
A POLITICAL BLUNDER
can be said, at this stage, on Mr Justice Bridge’s judgment
in Darwin last week upholding Immigration Minister Downing’s
deportation orders against the three Portuguese sailors. The judgment
has been delivered and the three Portuguese have now appealed to the High
Court. Nevertheless, a great deal can be said about the political judgment
of both the Minister for Immigration (Mr lan Downer) and the Attorney-
General (Sir Garfield Barwick).
The political and human decision to try and deport the three men is
against the interests of humanity and Australia. While there is evidence
that the three men were not political refugees when they came ashore at
Darwin, there is every reason to suppose that they are now. They have
described Salazar’s Portugal as a fascist country where, if they are returned,
they will certainly face long imprisonment, possibly even torture and death.
Portugal is a country of secret police and midnight arrests. It is a
country of brutality, political corruption and overflowing prisons. It is the
last and least palatable of colonial powers whose history of “civilising
mission” in Africa has been one of exploitation and misery.
There are a number of people now living in Australia including
former Portuguese citizens —who can testify to what is in store for the
three sailors if they are now deported to Portuguese territory. The puzzling
thing about the whole affair is the official attitude. What possible benefit
is there in returning the three men? To deport three Portuguese may
remove the lingering flavor of White Australia involved in the deportation
orders against the two Malays last year, which are also under appeal. But
this is beside the point.
Had the three men now in question jumped a communist ship or
sought political asylum in Australia from a communist tyranny, they would
have been welcomed with open arms. Seeking asylum from a political
tyranny of the Right they are denied it.
Portugal is a member of NATO and officially at all events a country
friendly to Australia. But it might be well to remember that Portugal is
reviled in Africa and in Asia and to deport three Portuguese nationals to
certain imprisonment is neither going to win us friends nor influence people
on our behalf. Deportation in this case is neither humane nor politically
very astute. It is hard to see what Australia gains if while the strict
letter of the law is observed we alienate badly needed friends. Should the
deportation orders be upheld and the appeal dismissed, Ministerial dis-
cretion should be exercised. . ..
The men should be allowed either to stay here or to proceed, if it is
possible, to another country of their choice.
NEXT WEEK'S ISSUE
• COVER STORY —Investing in Art, a Sound New Business.
• MALCOLM MUGGERIDGE How Not to Win
Friends.
• GEORGE McGANN—New York Newsletter.
• THAT CERTAIN 800K —Max Harris Discovers the
Boy Who Smoked.
• HOW WRONG IS XAVIER HERBERT? Kylie
Tennant.
• SCIENCE AT WORK.


National
gm Notebook
Spreading the Word
r T~'HE Exclusive Order of Plymouth
A Brethren moves in many and devious
ways. Last week in Sydney the order’s
views on the privacy of individuals, the
conduct of mass meetings and the
undesirability of radio and TV were
revealed. Yet it appears that there are
limits.
Some two years ago the Mastercraft
Chocolate group was still controlled by a
Brethren family interest and never adver-
tised on radio or TV.
Came the company’s takeover by Life
Savers (Australasia). “You may go
ahead and advertise',” the new proprietors
were told by the old. “It’s your responsi-
bility. The moral guilt cannot be on us.”
Brubeck and all that Jazz
A merican jazz pianist, Dave Brubeck,
this week making his second visit
here, is in something of a dilemma. One
of his numbers, “Take Five,” has made
the hit parade. This sudden popularity
with popular music fans is bringing him
some unpopularity with jazz fans. How-
ever, Brubeck, his smile spanning a couple
of ivory octaves, seemed confident he
could lick this thing.
Brubeck, a lively, intelligent, voluble
man, has plenty of ideas on jazz and what
it should be, but he, miraculously, can
make these clear in standard English.
Living with his wife and six children in
a new house in Connecticut, he is a world
away from the hipsters and the beats, and
a world away is where he wants to be.
He has no interest in, and little sympathy
for, the fringe world of drugs and other
degradations which surround jazz, at
least in the popular mind.
“I can appreciate to a certain extent
the difficulty of someone weak to whom
drugs, or anything Ike that, are readily
accessible,” he said, “but I must admit I
don’t feel much sympathy. Do you know
what I do for kicks? I don’t smoke. When
I was about 25 I smoked for a while, and
I got quite a kick out of it, but now the
biggest kick I get is out of not smoking
and not drinking, out of not needing any
crutches to help me along.”
Brubeck calls his audience “the fifth
instrument,” and explains that what he
and the other members of his quartet
play is dictated solely by the response of
the audience at the beginning of a con-
cert. “You can judge at once what sort
of music an audience will like,” he said.
He finds himself pretty well in tune with
Australian audiences, but what interests
him most, musically, is playing in coun-
tries where two cultures have fused or
are in process of fusing.
“Jazz came out of the fusion of the
African and American cultures,” he said.
“I think the big developments in music
in the next 50 years will come out of
countries which are joining their own
culture with another. Look at Japan,
for instance. And probably the most
magnificent musician you could make
would be an Indian, trained in the clas-
sical tradition of his own country, who
switched to jazz.”
Brubeck was too poilte to say so in so
many words, but his impression is that
the Australian population is too homo-
geneous for anything startlingly new
in jazz to come out of it.
Gold Rush
TThe word soon spread that there was
gold near them thar Adelaide hills.
So South Australia, which is lucky to
produce a few ounces of gold a year,
saw its first “gold rush” in decades.
A fist-size nugget was found by 18-
year-old Rodney Hartwig in a cow
paddock near where he lives with his
parents at the dairy centre of Strath-
halbyn, south of Adelaide.
The cows were banished to another
paddock. Then came Mines Department
officials to make' a ground inspection,
visitors, friends, an old prospector who
set to work with pan and shovel, and
amused onlookers.
The find caused such a fuss that SA
Mines Minister, Sir Lyell McEwin, was
forced to make a statement pointing out
that mineral rights in many older settled
areas of the State were privately owned.
Summer School
TVespite, or perhaps because of the
tension over West New Guinea, the
proceedings of the second annual Summer
school of the Australia-Indonesia Associa-
tion (NSW) last weekend were tame
indeed. The school was held at the
Methodist Youth War Memorial Centre,
Elanora Heights, about 14 miles from
Sydney. Nearly 200 people, Australians
and Indonesians, listened to talks on
different aspects of Indonesian affairs.
The president of the Australia-Indo-
nesia Association, Sir Bertram Stevens,
a former NSW Premier, told the school
that as a Methodist in a Methodist hall
he felt it was “a good omen” that the
Methodists were the largest Protestant
denominaion in Indonesia.
In the Teeth of Opposition
jy/gEMBERs of the Tasmanian branch of
the Australian Dental Association
have a rare surprise for members who
are in Hobart next week for the annual
convention. The Tasmanian branch has
arranged to bring from Beaconsfield some
10-year-old children with decay-free teeth.
Beaconsfield, a town in the Tamar Valley,
was a pioneer in fluoridation of water
supplies.
Ironically, at the moment people living
in the southern end of Beaconsfield are
seeking a referendum to contest the
council's decision that their water should
have ffuoride added.
Counterpoint
Q N March 22, the second-string music
critic of the “Sydney Morning
Herald (the No. 1 man being in Adel-
aide) scuttled back to Broadway from
the Town Hall and wrote:
“Heinze maintained the orchestra in
near-perfect synchronisation; otherwise
he contributed little beyond mere
accuracy to the concerto. His orchestra
HIRE PURCHASE
Want a new Dior creation?
Diamond clasp for decoration?
Have them now-—no need to borrow!
Wear today and pay tomorrow!
Like to take a trip to China?
Visit sultry Carolina?
Watch a Spaniard fight a “toro”?
Fly today and pay tomorrow!
Sleek cortege for those who ask it:
Rolls Royce hearse and cedar casket ;
Crow-black bearers shamming sorrow.
Die today and pay tomorrow!
MICHAEL SEARLE


was well-balanced, sonorous and
untroubled, but thoroughly apathetic and
unexciting.”
Four days after giving Sir Bernard
Heinze and the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra this rap over the knuckles, the
same critic, after a concert of different
works by the same conductor and
orchestra, was able to report that Heinze
“gave a gripping display of musicianship”
and conducted at “an enthralling concert
that was not only a personal triumph but
also a tour de force in its own right.” It
was, the critic wrote, “a display of
virtuosity doubly effective for its unosten-
tatiousness and impeccable balance of
sections, and, better than best, the pro-
pulsive energy animating it throughout.”
A Bit of a Burn
of England rector Norman
Hall was doing an estimated 80 mph
on Perth’s Great Eastern Highway when
he was pulled up by a motor-cycle
policeman. When he appeared in Perth
Traffic Court last week he gave the
excuse that he was on his way to baptise
a dying girl when the policeman booked
him, then allowed him to go on. The
girl died in Princess Margaret Hospital
about an hour and a half after he reached
her.
Hall was fined £l5, but the magistrate
did not cancel his licence because of
his mission and his 25 years of trouble-
free driving.
The next day, Mr Hall said that if
called out on a similar mission again,
he would go hell for leather. “But next
time I’ll get a police escort,” he said.
Polce Traffic Branch inspector, T.
Leahy, said that if Mr Hall had asked
for a police escort it would not have
been granted. “We did not think the
urgency was there,” he said.
He said that a police escort might be
given in an emergency, but only to
help a driver through traffic at regula-
tion speed. Anyone could stop a patrol-
man and ask for an escort, but the
police did not take legal responsibility.
Mr Hall took this point and admitted
that he was lucky not to lose his license.
“But there should be some special allow-
ances for medical men and the clergy,”
he said finally and defiantly.
Art for Money’s Sake
'T'he leisure class, the dealers, the merely
“ L curious and a hive of reporters
enjoyed two days’ hothouse excitement
at the Norman Schureck art auction in
Sydney last week. Any relation between
aesthetic values and prices realised might
be considered purely accidental. A very
mixed batch of paintings brought in
£81,858.
It no doubt produces quite a glow to
watch Dobell’s genius recognised so
handsomely at second-hand, albeit for
some sub-standard work. Mr Dobell him-
self, from the calm of Lake Macquarie,
preserved an exemplary and non-
pecuniary calm. ‘'They must be mad,”
was his comment.
Maybe the affluent society has occas-
ionally to express itself with this kind of
beanfeast. A quipping auctioneer and a
hectic atmosphere are not the best con-
comitants to a genuine “appreciation of
art.”
"I DON'T CARE IF DAME MARGOT DOES DO THE TWIST. YOU'LL STICK TO ENTRE CHATS
AND PAS DE TROIS!"


This Australia
AS I SEE IT
TEACHING CALWELL
ABOUT NEW GUINEA
FROM ALAN REID
SIR GARFIELD BARWICK
Can’t count on UN
r T''HE flaw in Labor's thinking on the
-* Dutch New Guinea issue was pointed
out even before Opposition Leader
Calwell entered the House of Represen-
tatives last week. The man who did the
pointing out was Mr Jim Fraser, Labor’s
voteless member for the Australian
Capital Territory, an ex-soldier who
fought as an artillery man in New Guinea
during the war years.
In the caucus meeting summoned to
discuss the problem Fraser warned that
Labor should think round its doctrine
that all difficulties would be overcome
through an approach to the UN.
Labor wanted to secure selfdetermina-
tion for the New Guinea people of
Dutch New Guinea as well as the Aus-
tralian territories in that part of the world.
But there was every prospect that if the
present dispute between Holland and the
Indonesians on the future of Dutch New
Guinea was decided by the United
Nations the decision would be for the
territory to be handed over to the
Indonesians outright and without pro-
vision for the indigenous occupants of the
Territory being placed in a position to
determine their own future either now or
in the future. In other words, Labor’s
policy of unswerving loyalty to the United
Nations and also the principle of self-
determination was contradictory. It
could have one or the other but not both.
Fraser’s warning was brushed aside
and Calwell went into the Parliament to
enunciate Labor's adherence to both
principles and to condemn the Govern-
ment’s “sick defeatism” in not appealing
to the United Nations, while simultane-
ously declaring that “the only thing of
real value in the issue is the fate of the
dependent people of West New Guinea.”
Actually, it is hard to decide from his
speech what precisely Calwell wanted
done, and it was doubtlessly to their lack
of precision that Menzies was referring
when he described Calwell as “diving
into a nimbus of words.” He wants the
dispute decided by United Nations but
did not challenge the account given by
External Affairs Minister Sir Garfield
Barwick of what took place in United
Nations when the dispute was actually
before it and which showed:
@ No Asian country supported the
Netherlands in its offer to hand over to
an international administration its con-
trol over the disputed area and to con-
tinue paying from its taxpayers' pockets
foi the Territory’s development until its
inhabitants could determine their own
future.
9 Almost all Asian countries supported
Indonesia’s claims to “West Irian.”
• No resolution in opposition to the
Indonesian viewpoint was likely to
receive the support of Asian members of
UNO and without that support no
effective action could be taken.
Labor’s Kim Beazley also pointed
up another weakness in the
Labor approach as enunciated by
Calwell. When Calwell in stating that
Labor's policy was unswerving loyalty to
the United Nations, he made a dis-
paraging reference to “power blocs,
vetoes and log-rolling campaigns by
interested parties.” Menzies in his reply
understandably misunderstood him.
Menzies took it as a crack at Great
Britain and the United States and a con-
tinuation of the Calwell line that Menzies
and his Government “take direction from
the people they refer to as our great and
powerful friends.” He repeated his
Government's determination to maintain
its association with these “great and
powerful friends.” But as Beazley later
pointed out Calwell was not attacking
either Great Britain or the United States.
He was attacking forces within the very
organisation that Calwell, as Labor
party spokesman, was insisting was
sufficiently disinterested, detached and
judicial to make a decision on the New
Guinea issue. “He (Mr Calwell) was
talking about the unshakable blocs within
the United Nations.”
As I see the debate and the Labor
caucus debate which preceded it, this
New Guinea issue is one that crosses
party political lines almost as though
they were non-existent. There is a
section of the Liberals much closer to
Calwell’s position than they are to
Menzies and his Cabinet. But there is
a section of the Labor Party which is
closer to Menzies and his Cabinet on this
issue than they are to their leader.
Fraser's warning to caucus that they
might be doing the indigenous inhabi-
tants of New Guinea a disservice by
insisting upon resolving the dispute
exclusively in UNO has been rein-
forced by Barwick's account of pro-
ceedings, in UNO. Beazley's attitude
(“Do what you can but recognise that
there are greater powers in the world
than Australia and be prepared to face
up to the difficulties of an unpalatable
solution forced upon us by circum-
stance”) seems very close to that of the
Prime Minister.
It is probably in this agreed area
Ihat Mr Menzies is vulnerable. Why
did the Menzies Government fail to
persuade the UK and US “our great
and powerful friends” —that this question
of selfdetei ruination was of great moment
to Australia? Did it start its campaign
too late?
RELIGION
HOW TO BE EXCLUSIVE
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
Oince reports of its family-smashing
activities have come in from Perth,
Adelaide, Hobart, Melbourne. Canberra
and Sydney, the Exclusive Order of
Plymouth Brethren has become the best-
publicised sect in Australia ; and like
Garbo, the more it shielded its true face
the greater was the attention paid to it.
In Hobart a 20-year-old youth was
worried that his home would break-up
because he was “unclean” in the sight of
his father and younger brother ; in Perth
an 81-year-old pensioner was deserted
by his wife because he was not one of
the Exclusive Order ; in Canberra a
woman fought the Exclusive’s attempts to
break up her home ; in Sydney men vainly
stormed various Exclusive meetings in
order to reclaim their wives and children.
As far as most people were concerned,


the Exclusives came into existence last
week but they can be traced back to
1827 and, of all places, Dublin. But the
small Christian communities called
Brethren gained prominence only when
the Rev. J. N. Darby, an ex-Anglican
minister, convinced many of the inhabi-
tants of Plymouth, England, to follow
his form of evangelicalism. The most
distinctive doctrine of the Brethren is
that official ministry of any form is a
denial of the spiritual priesthood of all
believers. From their early years the
Brethren were split by dissension and now
there are two main orders: the
Exclusive and the Open.
The missionary-minded Open Order is
the more numerous group and regards
some of the Exclusive Order's activities,
particularly that of setting family
members against each other, with as
much distaste as the rest of the
community.
The Exclusives, according to apostates
from the sect, have become more intol-
erant than ever recently and are supposed
to have listed 70 Sydney families which
must break-up because some members
are “unclean”. It seems certain that the
impetus is coming from America, where
the father-in-law of the Sydney leader
W. B. Hales, directs the world-wide ac-
tivities of the Order. The leader, a certain
James Taylor, known also as God to the
sect members, is partial to liquor so the
sect varies the dreary list of “don’ts”
v-hich make up its negative command-
ments with an exhortation to drink
liquor. The other precepts of the sect
would drive many people to drink: to be
Exclusive, a member has to say no to
radio and television, smoking, dancing,
cinema, attendance at sports meetings,
membership of unions, political parties,
the NRMA or social groups, cosmetics,
haircuts for women, eating with non-
members. It is “iniquitous” to belong to a
church, indeed those outside the sect are
“mongrel Christians.”
Coupled with this repression, there
is the apocalyptic appeal: old women are
leaving their families to live in shanties
with other members of the sect to await
the imminent second coming of Christ.
Exclusives are not found only in shan-
ties : like other sects, they seem to attract
people with money and at their meetings
at their Sydney centre, Ashfield, there
is always a big proportion of late model
cars. Their leader W. B. Hales, also
known as Christ, is a management-con-
sultant.
The total hold the sect has on its
members is shown not only in its de-
mands but in their response. Wives do
go home from meetings and challenge
their husbands to choose between them
and the electrical gadgets: it sounds
like a goon show but, in fact, it can
be like hell in the suburbs. When a
meeting can order a father to go to
his son’s house to take his children away,
most people believe this nudges the ques-
tion of the limits of religious freedom.
The Exclusives themselves are not likely
to be drawn into any discussion of
it. Their version of affairs is that the
Press in focusing attention on them is
merely “carrying on,” but “we will win
through, for the Lord is with us.” Record
attendances at meetings held at the Syd-
ney Town Hall (which 1000 of the ap-
proximate 2000 Sydney members attend-
ed) and in Chatswood since the furore
started show that the sect, like others,
will probably thrive on opposition.
CHURCH SCHOOLS
A PROTESTANT BILL
FOR STATE AID
FROM A HOBART CORRESPONDENT
W. C. HODGMAN
Loans on easy terms
T ast week W. C. Hodgman shook up
Tasmania when he announced that
he would again seek Government aid
for private schools. Hodgman, who left
the Liberal party in March, 1960, in
protest against executive interference in
Parliamentary party affairs, is an old
State aid man. In 1959 he was one of
the trio of Protestant Liberals (Fred
Marriott and Jack Breheny were the
others) who voted with the Labor Gov-
ernment in the Assembly in support of
an earlier bill to assist private schools,
That time, the Legislative Council
threw the bill out, but this time there
is little likelihood that the Council will
see the bill at all, for the Labor Govern-
ment, against the convictions of some
of its members, is bound by ALP Federal
Conference decision to oppose State aid.
(Only the Government may bring down
legislation involving spending of public
money, so Hodgman must follow a
roundabout procedure.)
Already Tasmanian State School Teach-
ers’ Federation secretary H. D. Leitch
has sharply reminded the Government
where it stands. The federation, he said,
“totally opposed” any form of State aid
to private schools until State schools were
“adequately catered for.”
Yet Mr Hodgman calls only for:
Loans to private schools on easy terms,
remission of their land tax, increased
bursaries, and provision for their teachers
to join the State teachers’ superannuation
fund. Privately many Labor members
are away out in front of such mild pro-
posals but politically they are tied. The
Liberals, though free enough politically,
cannot muster a burning zeal for State
aid, let alone the numbers to force it
on the Government. And the supporters
of assistance to the schools are still
disunited, though they are much closer
than they were. No longet do angry
disavowals follow a statement by the
Catholic Archbishop of Hobart (the
Most Rev. Dr Guilford Young) that he
is speaking on behalf of “all church
schools” in demanding some measure of
justice for fee-burdened parents. Dr
Young no doubt would welcome more,
but he emphasises interest-free loans for
school rebuilding and extensions as the
first need.
Mr W. N. Oats, Headmaster of Friends,
the unique Quaker co-educational school
in Hobart, has asked for assistance to
parents of boarders. The Government,
he pointed out, was subsidising country
children in residence at State boarding
hostels to such an extent that they paid
only £2 10s. a week. Yet it was the
private school which was called on to
accommodate most of the country chil-
dren. Mr Oats also asked for low-in-
terest, long-term Government money for
school building.
Mr J. W. Henty, chairman of the
board of Broadland House, C.E.G.C.S.,
Launceston, has similar thoughts. “The
time has come when the Government
should financially aid church schools
with low-interest loans,” Mr Henty said.
Some directors of Methodist and
Presbyterian schools may still prefer
to go without themselves rather than see
Catholic demands met, but they are prob-
ably now in a minority.
“THE BULLETIN” READER
In our editorial last week we stated
that the Bulletin Readership Survey
had been undertaken by Motivational
Research.
This should, of course, have been
Motivational Surveys (Australia).


TENNIS
BUMBLING OFFICIALDOM
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
MARGARET SMITH
Out on a limb
Tn Australian tennis circles and at the
A Melbourne gymnasium where Aus-
tralia's woman tennis champion, 19-year-
old Margaret Smith, is currently training
under the guidance of Stan Nicholes, the
subject of Miss Smith’s battle with the
Lawn Tennis Association of Australia is a
fairly hot topic. It is now possible to piece
together some of the background reasons
why Miss Smith changed her mind about
going on an officially sponsored LTAA
tennis team.
Miss Smith is an undoubted champion
and she has excellent prospects of win-
ning Wimbledon this year. When
under the managership of Mrs Nell
Hopman in overseas tournaments
last year, Miss Smith (who obviously
benefited from her experience) believed
that she knew her game well enough to
know when and how much practice her
game needed. But with a manager like
Mrs Hopman, she more or less had to
practise when Mrs Hopman thought she
needed it. As well as this there were
other incidents, undoubtedly magnified
by the strain of the tour, which upset
Miss Smith and the girls.
One well-documented incident was the
desire of Miss Smith and Lesley Turner
to have the lengthy morning practices at
the Wimbledon courts cancelled while
they were still taking part in games at
Queen's Club. This involved a long car
journey across London and a change
from the faster-paced Wimbledon courts
to the slower ones of Queen’s
Court. Other trivial incidents appar-
ently made Miss Smith decide not to
go on an overseas official tour again, at
any rate with Mrs Hopman as manager.
Miss Smith in an “unofficial” talk with
Mr Sample, the president of the New
South Wales Lawn Tennis Association,
had been “promised'’ that if she would
agree to selection in an official tour, a
manager other than Mrs Hopman would
be chosen. It was on this basis that she
agreed to go on tour. Mr Sample, un-
fortunately, could not rustle up enough
votes in the LTAA to have another man-
ager other than Mrs Hopman appointed.
To add to Miss Smith’s woes her em-
ployer, at that time a Melbourne tennis
firm, told her she must “go along” with
the LTAA appointment of Mrs Hopman.
After that two things happened: Miss
Smith accepted Victorian Bob Mitchell’s
offer of a job, and Mr Sample denied he
told Miss Smith that Mrs Hopman would
not manage this year's team. This of
course put Miss Smith out on a limb
when, released from pressure from her
previous employer, she stated that she
would not go on an official tour as long
as Mrs Hopman was manager.
Despite subsequent LTAA meetings
and back-stage attempts at compromise
Miss Smith has won her point. “I really
don't care what the Lawn Tennis Associ-
ation of Australia says, I’m going over-
seas anyway. I will pick my chaperon
and leave Australia early in May.” Mrs
Hopman, who has given over 20 years
of valuable service to tennis, 16 of them
as an LTA Councillor, has undoubtedly
received a bitter blow but the affair seems
to be neither her fault nor that of Miss
Smith's, but rather the result of official
bumbling and the clash of temperaments.
Mrs Hopman broke a long silence on the
affair to say: “There is no doubt the
States must support the LTAA in altering
its constitution to take further disciplinary
control of its players.”
Last Sunday during a television inter-
view she repeated her remarks and added
that Miss Smith, as the star of the tour,
has got all the plums of the tour. Her
reaction is understandable but it won't
do her. Miss Smith, or the LTA of Aus-
tralia any good if Mrs Hopman’s sup-
porters prolong this affair by attempting
to clamp down on Miss Smith at its
ordinary meeting this month. In reality,
of course, the LTAA can’t in fact prevent
Miss Smith from touring overseas so long
as she does not receive expenses from
overseas tennis associations.
RELIGIOUS INSTRUCTION IN STATE SCHOOLS
APRIL 8, 1882
(A meeting of Anglican laity had been
called to discuss Religious Instruction
in State Schools under the new so-
called non-sectarian Education Act.)
A/fR Shepherd Smith told an uncom-
fortable truth when he declared
that the system of education attempted
to be established in New South Wales
was a system of Protestant education.
He might with equal force have gone
further and have stated that it is a
system of Evangelical Protestant edu-
cation, and a proselytising system at
that. The Act is a fraud. Unsectarian
the education under the Act is not. It
is distinctly Christian, and the system
of teaching conveys the Christianity
of certain sects which, in England,
would be termed the Dissenting or
Non-conformist bodies.
The present Education Act is the
work of a Parliament which compri-
ses, according to the statement made
at a dinner to Orange delegates, by
brother the Rev. Dr Gilchrist, twenty
Orangemen, eleven Roman Catholics,
and a residuum of Protestants, mainly
elected through the influence of the
Orange Lodges. The act is satisfactory
to the extreme Protestant majority,
including the twenty Orangemen. Now
it is quite obvious that any religious
arrangement which is effected to
their own satisfaction by Orange in-
fluence must be intrinsically distaste-
ful. repugnant, and probably unjust,
to many Anglicans and to all Roman
Catholics. A purely secular system
would be distasteful likewise, but it
would not be unjust.
POSITIONS VACANT
NO MORE
POLICEMEN?
FROM KEITH WILLEY IN DARWIN
npHE Northern Territory Police Force
A Australia's counterpart of the
Royal Canadian “Mounties” is losing
its lure for young men. During March
the force advertised nation-wide for 35
recruits. Such a call usually draws a
flood of “fit young men,” under 30 years,


of “robust build.” This time applicants
tallied the bare 100 half the usual.
The Deputy Police Commissioner
Clive Graham a veteran of the old
mounted days —growled : “When we sort
out the applicants who aren’t eligible
there’s no doubt we won’t fill the
vacancies.” Why the offer wasn’t rushed
is a mystery, particularly in view of the
widespread unemployment down south.
The 159 men now in the force keep
the peace throughout 523,000 square miles
much of it wild bush and desert
country where semi-civilised natives
would outnumber whites. The NT Police
have a great tradition. They have their
martyrs . . . McColl fell to the spears
of Tuckiar on Woodah Island, in the
Gulf of Carpentaria; a constable was
shot dead by a crazed constable in the
streets of Katherine; others have died
on little-known bush battlefields.
They also have their heroes . . .
Russian secret police found themselves
no match for giant Sergeant Greg Ryall
(now in charge of Alice Springs district)
when they tried to force Mrs Petrov to
return to Russia a few years ago and
inadvisedly drew their pistols on Darwin
Airport. In a dusty Katherine Street,
Sergeant (now Inspector) Jim Mannion
“faced down” a killer who seconds before
had shot another policeman. Mannion
later won a decoration for heroism during
fire rescue operations at Tennant Creek.
Young men serving on remote stations
such as Wave Hill and Timber Creek
in the far north-west and Anthony’s
Lagoon, Rankine River and Lake Nash
on the Barkly Tableland face duties
ranging from the solving of tribal murders
to the trailing of cattle duffers, often
for hundreds of miles across desolate
country. They might search for a
“bushed” stockman one week, then act
more prosaically as Inspector of Motor
Vehicles, or even Census Officer, the
next.
Adventure aside, nowhere can a police-
man expect such rapid promotion as in
the Territory. First Class Sergeant
Charles Porter of Alice Springs has been
in the force for only five and a half
years. Second Class Sergeant Phil
McLoughlin joined in 1957 and two other
sergeants reached this rank within six
years. The force includes 29 sergeants
and a man becomes eligible to sit for his
sergeant’s exam, after three years service.
In Sydney a man might pound a beat
for 20 years and remain a constable.
Pay is good. A single constable starts on
£l3OB a year with free accommodation.
When he marries he gets a free Govern-
ment home. He has six weeks leave every
year and holiday fares south every two
years. Yet young Australians no longer
seem keen to join. As Deputy Commis-
sioner Graham asked : “Are Australians
losing their spirit of adventure?”
Around Adelaide
IN THE ESTABLISHMENT'S PUB
'T'here is no other hotel in Australia
A quite like the South Australian, in
Adelaide. For 83 years it has been the
very hub of South Australia’s life. The
State’s top families have continued to
think of it more as the club that it
originally was, rather than a public
house. Its cedar, mahogany and
polished leather have always breathed
the conservatism and good taste of
Adelaide’s Establishment.
But lately, things have been happen-
ing to “The South” —as every Adel-
aidian respectfully calls this famous
pub. Builders have been tearing away
at the innards of the old girl. To some
it seemed the final straw when work-
men removed the frosted glass from
the hotel’s entrance doors, replacing it
with clear glass that for the first time
exposed the foyer to the passing public.
But worse was to come. On March
17 —a date that must go down in South
Australian history—the South’s general
manager, James Byfield, threw open
the doors of his stately dining room
and lounge for a nightly Festival Club,
where for a season subscription of ten
bob artists and visitors to the Festival
of Arts could eat, drink and play
merry hell until midnight, while the
rest of the pubs closed at 6 p.m.
The locals have been treated to the
sight of the visiting Bhasker Indian
dancers cha-chaing wildly around the
floor and calling for the Twist.
They’ve heard raucous laughter from
the tables of English naturalist-
explorer David Attenborough and
hard-drinking actor Frank Waters.
Giant Dave Brubeck bassist Eugene
Wright has had his midnight cuppa
personally served by Mr Byfield, while
effervescent “St Joan”, Zoe Caldwell,
downed Scotch and water wearing
slacks and sandals in full view of
Lewy Cotton, the South’s headwaiter
who wouldn’t let in the Queen’s dress-
maker or even Bob Dyer unless they
wore a tie. The night gorgeous Chilean
soprano Ana Raquel Satre walked in
after her triumphant debut in La
Traviata the entire loungeful of people
stood and cheered. Or, for a final blow
to your fond picture of The South
Australian, visualise Col Joye and his
Joy Boys dishing out rock ’n’ roll from
the balcony of the hotel to the delight
of thousands of squealing teenagers
in the street below.
Such “debauchery” probably promp-
ted the letter to the “Adelaide Adver-
tiser” last week when John L. Mines,
of Murray Bridge, demanded: “Is it an
art to consume large quantities of hard
liquor? If so, this State is rich in
artists. It appears that some people do
not want an Arts Festival, but a
Bacchanalian orgy.”
Through it all the South’s owners,
James Byfield, his wife and her sister
Miss June O’Brien, have never stopped
smiling. Although they will be lucky
to break even on the deal—financi-
ally—Mr Byfield explains: “We look
upon the Club as our contribution
towards the success of the Festival.”
As the immaculate Mr Byfield talks
in his precise manner of the history
of the South Australian Hotel one can
see that “status and repute” have
always been uppermost, from the day
in 1879 when Charles Frew Esq.
opened the place as “The South Aus-
tralian Club”, through its growth to
two storeys in 1893, its enlargement to
its present size in 1899 and its acquisi-
tion by Mr Byfield’s widowed mother-
in-law Mrs John O’Brien in 1934.
“Mrs O’Brien gave the hotel its
character,” Mr Byfield recalls proudly.
“She poured every penny of profit
back into the business. People loved
her. Even after her death people whose
families had been staying with us for
generations would pause as they
entered the front doors and look
towards where Mrs O’Brien always
sat, on the left of the door in summer
or on the right beside the mallee-root
fire in winter.”
And, let it be clear, through those
doors walked everyone who was any-
one in South Australia. The hotel’s
register is dotted with their recurring
names—Kidman, Barr Smith, Bony-
thon, Seppelt, Macfarlane, Lawson, et
all. They stayed at the South when
they came to town, they entertained
their friends to dinner there ; they
celebrated their engagements, weddings
and birthdays in Lewy’s dining room.
Mr Byfield’s evidence of his “courses
for horses policy” (as he terms it) are
the O’Brien family’s other hotels in
Adelaide, the Gresham, the Strath-
more and the Berkeley—good, down-
to-earth pubs for the masses. As for
the permanent changes to the South:
“There is a world of difference between
remodelling and modernising,” Mr
Byfield explains. “We would never
modernise the South Australian ; we
only remodel it. Its character will
never alter.”
LIGHT


POLITICS
WALSH AND THE GOVERNOR
FROM A SOUTH AUSTRALIAN CORRESPONDENT
'T'he services of former stonemason Mr
Frank Walsh are these days required
by the ALP in their attempt to chisel
the Playford Government from out of the
Ministerial benches. For the Premier, Sir
Thomas Playford, and his LCL col-
leagues are content in the knowledge
that possession and precedent are nine-
tenths of the law. The latest device that
Mr Walsh, the Opposition leader, used
in his tactical foray against the Govern-
ment was an approach to the Governor,
Sir Edric Bastyan.
Mr Walsh’s call on the Governor came
as a shock to many including some
of his own party colleagues. In an
atmosphere of high drama Mr Walsh
would say little after his call on Sir
Edric. But he did admit that he had
left some documents. No denial came
from the ALP when the Press subse-
quently suggested that Mr Walsh had
told the Governor that Labor thought
it had a mandate to govern. Perhaps
the exact contents of the documents Mr
Walsh left at Government House will
never be known.
Labor, according to an unnamed con-
stitutional expert who gave his opinion
four days after the ALP approach, was
relying upon a two-pronged case. He
said Labor had approached the Governor
well prepared with the knowledge that
the Governor had to treat any case put
to him by an Opposition leader with
respect and toleration, because the Op-
position leader in British Parliaments
is given special status and recognition.
Any Governor had to preserve this status
by seriously considering any matters
raised by an Opposition leader. Labor’s
second prong was one of constitutional
right. The ALP, said this constitutional
authority, claimed the Governor had the
right to set a new precedent and invite
Labor to form a Government. Mr Walsh
was probably bolstered in this claim by
precedent in NSW history when the
NSW Governor, Sir Philip Game, ignored
the advice of his Executive Council
and dismissed Premier J. T. Lang when
Lang held a majority in his Legislative
Assembly.
Surprisingly enough it was Independent
member of SA’s Lower House Mr T.
C. Stott, MP, who received the back-
wash of Mr Walsh’s action. At the time
Mr Walsh slipped 200 yards from his
own office in Parliament House to the
Governor’s library across the road, Mr
Stott had still not declared his stand.
He held the fulcrum of power. Until
then it was obvious that both parties
could rely on the voting support of 19
members. Perhaps Mr Walsh pressed this
point home to the Governor when he
saw him. But the following day Mr
Stott gave a broad and fairly uncom-
promising promise to support the Play-
ford Government. He would support no
measure, which, in his mind, might be
designed to tip Playford from Govern-
ment.
Mr Stott has already come under fire
for the time he has taken in making up
his mind 24 days after the election.
His decision followed a personal poll he
took inside his electorate and an annual
wheatgrowers’ conference in Adelaide.
(He is secretary of both the SA Wheat
and Woolgrowers’ Association and also
the Australian Wheatgrowers’ Feder-
ation). Because Mr Stott apparently
realised he would be on call most of the
time in the coming Parliamentary session
to help the Government retain its major-
ity he took the precaution of issuing
this public statement:
“It is the unanimous desire of the
executive and a very large number of key
men in the SA Wheat and Woolgrowers’
Association that I should remain as their
general secretary. I sincerely trust that
my stand on this important issue will
not do any harm to the SA Wheat and
Woolgrowers’ Association nor the Aus-
tralian Wheatgrowers’ Federation.”
REFORMATORY
ESCAPING IS THE PRINCIPAL SPORT
FROM GOODWIN EWENCE IN LAUNCESTON
T AST week five 16-year-olds escaped
from Ashley Boys’ Home, the Tas-
manian reformatory farm near Deloraine.
While police parties were out next
morning rounding up the last of the
escapees, three other boys went over
the fence. Two days later, all eight were
back in the home proudly showing
visitors over the model they had helped
build.
Ashley may be a reformatory, but it
is foremost a home, the first real home
many of the boys have known. It en-
courages the boys. For example, super-
vised by Utility Officer R. J. Johnston,
with minimum assistance from the home
staff, the boys constructed the new
56-foot concrete dairy for the farm’s
23 milking cows. “Their enthusiasm
often brought them back to the job
after working hours,” said Officer
Johnston. Proudly and not unskilfully a
15-year-old designed and made an Ashley
badge to go over a doorway. In the
same spirit, the boys converted an old
building into an inter-denominational
chapel, appropriately furnished and fitted,
even to the stained-glass windows.
Yet against this are the thefts, some
violence, some incendiarism and wilful
damage, the cricket score of escapes.
Since Tasmanian Government humani-
tarianism has rebelled at the suggestion
that Ashley should be made as secure
as a prison, escaping is the principal
sport. Since September, 1960, when Dr
Gaha, then Chief Secretary, brought
the scorebook for the few preceding
years up to date (14 escapes, involving
42 boys and the illegal use of 15 motor
vehicles), about 40 boys have figured
in abscondings.
September, 1960, was notable for the
escape of nine boys aged 14 to 16. Be-
fore the last of them gave himself up at
his parents’ home a week later, several
cars had been stolen, three premises
had been entered and robbed, and police
had fired shots over fleeing lads in the
bush of the Dial Range beyond Ulver-
stone. Chief Secretary Gaha assured the
protesting people of Deloraine that
warning sirens at the home and Deloraine
Police Station would be sounded as
soon as boys escaped, and that all
radio stations would broadcast warnings.
After three or four dummy runs, the
boys got together for the next big break
in March last year. Seven boys, aged
14-16, scattered over the north of Tas-
mania, taking six cars in all, and smash-
ing two of them. Shots were fired by
police before all the escapees were
rounded up. Deloraine people protested
that the first car was taken by the boys
before the sirens sounded. Again Mr
McDonald called for segregation of the
hardened offenders, and again Govern-
ment action was promised.
Since then there have been at least
five escapes, but less crime on the part
of the escapees. Last November only 21
boys were in residence to greet visitors
on “open day,” against 40 the year
before, and up to 80 on other occasions.
Tasmanian law strictly interpreted would
prevent a newspaper from as much as
reference to the existence of a children’s
court, so both the young and the older
element have no information about
committals to the home, but it is a
pretty safe guess that recent outbreaks
of crazy vandalism, car stealing and
larcency have added to the population
of Ashley.


Around Melbourne
THE LASH
SIR CHESTER MANIPOLD
Gentlemen’s agreement
O ye! Who teach the ingenuous youth
of nations,
Holland, France, England, Germany
or Spain,
I pray ye flog them, upon all occasions.
It mends their morals, never mind the
pain.
—Byron. “Don Juan. ’ Canto st. 1.
Melbourne in recent weeks has had
a bevy of bashings and unprovoked
beatings-up. Not beatings-up, you
understand, for any financial gain ;
rather they came from packs of bored
youths who no doubt said to them-
selves: “Isn’t it a lovely night ? —let's
go out and mug someone.”
For example, 16 youths in a train for
no reason beat a clerk unconscious,
even using the refinement of hitting
him on the head with a carriage
electric light bulb. Very smartly the
chairman of the Council of Justices of
the Peace Association, Mr F. J. Boyd,
called for legislation for the use of the
cat o'nine tails. There was a chorus
of approval. The secretary-general of
the YMCA, Mr Alex Moodie. even
suggested that the police should be
given a discretionary power to hand
out on-the-spot hidings to members of
basher gangs. Mr Moodie was sure
that the average constable could be
relied upon not to misuse his power.
Admittedly there were cries of pro-
tests from humane societies and the
clergy, but as they say on TV, the
feeling of the panel seemed to be for
the lash. But then the Chief Secretary,
Mr Rylah, put some minds to rest.
He said superior courts already order
a whipping.
And he’s right. Section 477 of the
Victorian Crimes Act says: “Where a
male person aged 16 or more is con-
victed of an indictable offence against
the person of another, and, in the
opinion of the court, the offence wa-
attended with cruelty or great personal
violence the court may, in addition to
the punishment already awarded,
direct that he be once, twice, or thrice
privately whipped.” The section goes
on to say that the number of strokes at
each whipping shall not exceed 12
and that the court shall direct what
instrument shall be used —cat or birch.
South Australia is the other whip-
ping State but it must be said that
Victoria has never taken to whipping
with quite the enthusiasm of the South
Australians, although it remains to be
seen what the courts will do after this
clamor for harsher measures. Flog-
gings here are very rare. The last was
in 1958 when the criminals William
John O'Meally and John Henry
Taylor were flogged, 12 strokes each.
It was done in the traditional style
in the presence of the jail Governor,
the senior chief warder, the chief
warder, the medical officer and. of
course, the flagellator himself. The
victims were strapped, arms and legs,
to a triangle so that no part of the
body could be moved. There was just
one concession to the 20th century.
Instead of a black velvet mask the
flagellator wore large American-type
sunglasses.
truck drivers are putting up
signs—Victoria, The Sunshine
State. They feel that now we have
infinitely stronger claims to the title
than Queensland. But really, the place
is so dry no longer is it amusing. There
is a movie showing in the city titled
“Breakfast at Tiffany's’’ which is
proving immensely popular partly due
to the fact that for the last half-hour
it shows a scene in New York where
it is raining like hell. Audiences just
love to savor those forgotten sounds,
the gurgling of gutters and the swish-
ing of windscreen wipers.
Melbourne always has been blessed
with so much water it’s a terrible
shock to be without it.
First, last December came the water
restrictions. The Board of Works told
us that sprinklers were banned. We
could water our gardens only with
hand-held hoses.
Now alas, the situation has become
worse. The Board of Works will
allow us to hose only between 6 p.m.
and 8 p.m. So while we have
six-o’clock closing for the beer now
we have eight-o’clock closing for
water. (Though it must be conceded
that the Board of Works has been con-
siderate. The TV programmes are
pretty lousy between 6 and 8 p.m.).
Of course, observing of the restric-
tions is a matter of honor. Yet the
other day the inspectors nabbed 74
people who were engaging in black
sprinkling. How severe their punish-
ment will be 1 do not know, but could
one suggest the cat o'nine tails, the
thumb-screw or the iron virgin?
T AST week the Victoria Amateur
Turf Club upped the stakes of the
Caulfield Cup to £20.000. Normally
such a move would be accepted with
great joy on all sides. This time the
shock was profound and gentlemen
even started to cut each other in the
Melbourne Club
You see, this put the stake money of
the Caulfield Cup on a par with the
Melbourne Cup. which in racing circles
is something that simply is not done.
Over the years always there has been
a gentleman's agreement that the Mel-
bourne Cup should remain Australia’s
premier horse race with the highest
prize money. The chairman of the
VRC, Sir Chester Manifold, insisted
that no race, irrespective of prize-
money, could possibly shake the
prestige of the Melbourne Cup.
Nevertheless the hint was there that
next year the Melbourne Cup prize-
money would be upped to £25,000.
Then Mr H. R Way, secretary of
the VATC. said he had been surprised
at the number of people who resented
the Caulfield Cup moving up to the
Melbourne Cup level. But really it had
all been a mistake. They had not
realised that on February 17 the VRC
announced that the Melbourne Cup
prize would again be £20,000. Indeed
they had assumed that with the
success of the T.A.B. off-course tote
the prize would be £25,000.
So if, come the second Tuesday in
November, the lucky owners collect
£25,000 from the Melbourne Cup, let
us hope that they offer a toast of
gratitude to the committee of the
VATC who gave them the extra
thousands of £'s by the simple method
of not reading their newspapers.
BATMAN


*>
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Iworporuted in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Fn n( ls Exceed
£A363,000,000
Offices:
SYDNE t, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON. N.Z.
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented Ore
Concentrator has proved over many
years to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin to the
sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents jor
Rapid Mag-netting Machines, George
Ellison Switch Gear, etc. Makers of
Classifiers, Water Filters, Steam Valves,
etc.
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your
fancy write to the Manager, who will
quote you a price for the original.
LAW
WHAT HAPPENED TO PETER AUSTRALIA
FROM KEITH WILLEY IN DARWIN
'T'he fate of Peter Australia victim
A of one of the harshest and most
hated laws in the Commonwealth now
rests with the Federal Government. In
the Supreme Court last week Mr Justice
Bridge “reluctantly” dismissed Aus-
tralia’s appeal against his conviction for
supplying tw'O wards with wine at Bagot
Compound on February 13.
Immediately after the hearing Darwin
lawyer and Legislative Councillor Dick
Ward announced that he would appeal
to the Attorney-General, Sir Garfield
Barwick, for the Government to use
its prerogative and reduce Australia's
sentence.
Northern Territory law sets the mini-
mum penalty for “supplying” at six
months gaol for a first offender. Second
offenders draw a mandatory 12 months
gaol and can appeal to the Supreme
Court only against conviction. No appeal
on penalty is open to them. It was Aus-
tralia’s second supplying conviction since
he was made a citizen little more than
a year ago. So unless the Federal Govern-
ment steps in he will spend the next 12
months inside Fannie Bay Gaol.
During the appeal hearing Mr Ward
questioned the quality of evidence on
which Australia was convicted. He said
the magistrate should not have preferred
the unsworn, uncorroborated testimony
of two wards against the sworn evidence
of Australia, a citizen. He described the
supplying laws as “scandalous” and
“iniquitous.”
In dismissing the appeal, Mr Justice
Bridge invited the attention of the
Executive to “some mitigation which
might be determined in Australia’s case
of the minimum penalty of 12 months.”
Earlier he had said : “When a man
supplies a small quantity of liquor for
which he gets no reward it seems a
harsh result.”
He also drew attention to the section
of the Licensing Ordinance under which
Australia was convicted and suggested
the Government might consider reducing
his sentence. From the spirit and con-
text of the section it was obvious the
Legislature regarded supplying as a
serious offence, endangering features of
the Territory’s social structure, he said.
In certain cases such as supplying to
extort money or for immoral purposes
the severe punishment was justified.
However this was not the case with
Peter Australia, who had supplied a
small amount of liquor for no gain, and
he invited the attention of the Legis-
lature to whether the law intended such
a severe punishment in such cases as
Australia’s.
He had also been “alarmed” at the
fact that Australia was not represented
at the magistrate’s hearing and “I draw
to the attention of the Legislature that
no provision is made for legal assistance
before the magistrate in a case such as
this, although there is provision for aid
for those who come to this court in
criminal trials not necessarily involving
a minimum penalty of 12 months.”
Australia’s last chance now rests with
the Federal Government. On past per-
formances he cannot be too hopeful of
mercy. As a victim of the supplying
laws he joins a long list mainly half-
castes and aboriginal citizens who,
according to a Bagot native, “must bin
gibbit grog to all we-fellers.” under the
tribal law of share-and-share-alike.
Heading the sad roll-call was the painter,
Albert Namatjira. Darwin actor Robert
Tudawali also has done time for “supply-
ing.” even though he himself is still a
ward.
Three times the NT Legislative Council
has passed bills amending the Licensing
Ordinance to remove the savage “six
months minimum” and restore to magis-
trates discretionary power on penalties for
first offences. All the bills were refused
assent in Canberra, provoking a political
crisis in the North which is not yet
ended. Dick Ward and some other local
politicians would like to go even further
and remove the “12 months minimum”
for second offences as well, restoring
to them also the right of appeal to the
Supreme Court against severity of sen-
tence. In really bad cases it w'ould still
be within the power of magistrates and
judges to impose severe penalties.
The present harsh anti-supplying laws
are known to be. the Minister for Terri-
tories Hasluck’s “baby.” They were
aimed, with the highest motives, at
halting the degradation of the aboriginal
people through liquor and prostitution.
But the plain facts are :
• The natives are drinking more than
ever.
• The flow of liquor to Bagot and other
aboriginal compounds near the towns
continues unchecked.
• The law, severe though it is, has failed
to catch any big-time suppliers.
• The main victims these days are half-
castes and fullbloods whose real “crime”
often is merely one of mateship.


VICTORIA'S BOLTE
The Plain Farmer
BY J. GROHMAN
When Victorians voted in the State
elections of 1955 they had few
hopes that anything useful would
come of it. The poll had been
brought on by a split in the ranks of the
Cain Labor Government and this seemed
to be only the latest development in a
chaotic Parliament which had thrown up
nine Governments in the previous ten
years. Some had only lasted a few weeks,
and some only a few days ; the average
life of a Government over the decade had
been 394 days. Since 1945 the State had
had as its Premiers Sir Albert Dunstan,
Mi 1. McFarlan, Mr J. Cain, (twice)
Mr T. Hollway (twice) and Mr J.
McDonald (twice). There had been
Labor, Country Party and Liberal
Cabinets ; there had been a Country party
Ministry dependent on Labor support for
its majority and there had even been a
Liberal Government headed by Mr
Hollway which was backed by the Labor
party. The Liberal party had split into
warring factions and after two-and-a-
halt years, the same fate befell the Cain
Labor Government. Anything seemed
possible and few believed that the latest
election would bring an end to the cease-
less horse-trading and Parliamentary
intrigue which had become the main
business of Governments.
Wher the numbers went up, the new
Parliament was in the control of Henry
Edward Bolte, leader of the Liberal and
Countrv party. He had entered the
campaign as the leader of 11 sitting
members in the Lower House and came
out of it with 34 seats. It was a huge swing
to the LCP, but not a big majority in a
House of 66 members. Reporters who
motored down to see the new Premier-
elect at his farm near Meredith, 85 miles
west of Melbourne, found a stocky,
round-faced man inspecting his flocks in
old trousers and sports coat, with a white-
footed sheepdog at his heels. Most of
them wrote him off as a stop-gap
Premier, hardly likely to cure Victoria's
chronic political instability.
Seven years later, Henry Bolte is loom-
ing as one of Australia’s most durable
and successful Liberal leaders with a safe
Parliamentary majority which must bring
envious glances from both Mr Menzies
and Sir Thomas Playford. By 1960 he
held 39 of the Legislative Assembly seats
and in the election of June last year, when
the tide seemed to be running against the
Liberals, managed to pick up one more
seat from the ALP. In all three elections
that he has fought and won, Mr Bolte
has had the benefit of the second pre-
ferences of the DLP. These have pre-
sented him with seats which he would not
normally have taken from the ALP. At
the same time, if the ALP formula for
success (abolition of preferential voting)
were put into effect, the Bolte Govern-
ment would still have won a Parliamen-
tary majority at last June’s elections.
The Labor split is in fact one of the
several strokes of luck or fate which have
turned Henry Bolte into a national figure
of growing stature. He was born and
reared in the Skipton area, on the fringe
of Victoria’s Western District, and his
father, Harry (85) and mother, Anna (79)
still live there. He was educated at Skip-
ton State School and later at Ballarat
Church of England Grammer School
where he was a contemporary of another
Victorian Premier, Mr Tom Hollway.
After a period as a rural worker (he once
held an AWU ticket) he acquired his
present property, “Kialla”, in 1937. It
had 600 merinos when he bought it, but
his flocks are. now nearer 3500. He keeps
200 acres under crops and insists that he
is a farmer, not a grazier. These days the
property is run by a manager, but the
Premier and his wife—a Skipton girl
whom he married in 1934—spend as
many weekends as possible on the estate.
They have no children.
He volunteered as a gunner in 1940,
but physical disabilities debarred him
from overseas service. Instead he served
as an instructor at Puckapunyal, finishing
with the rank of Sergeant. Over the years,
he captained the local cricket and football
teams and was secretary of the now
defunct Skipton Racing Club. He played
football until he was 40 and kept up
his cricket even longer.
He says that his decision to stand for
Parliament arose from a casual conver-
sation during a round of golf in the


Skipton area. It was 1945 and grumbling
at controls maintained by the State and
Federal Labor Governments was wide-
spread among farmers. The local State
electorate of Hampden was held by the
ALP and Bolte lost out in his first
attempt to win it in 1945. Two years later
the tide had swung against Labor follow-
ing the Chifley bank nationalisation move.
In November, 1947, the first Cain Gov-
ernment was defeated and Mr Bolte was
among the new Liberal members. He has
held the once-Labor seat ever since.
Lucky Break
Tn 1948 he became Minister for Water
Supply in the Hollway Government
and travelled widely in the State. His
period as a Minister ended in 1950 with
the defeat of the Hollway Government.
Soon afterwards, Hollway was deposed as
the State Liberal Leader by Mr L. Nor-
man. The latter was a city man and
farmer Bolte was elected as Deputy
Leader, replacing Mr Trevor Oldham.
When Norman lost his Glen Iris seat in a
spectacular “grudge" contest with Holl-
way, Mr Oldham won the leadership of
the Parliamentary party, Bolte remaining
as Deputy. Then in 1953 Oldham was
killed in an air crash near Calcutta while
en route to attend the Coronation. Bolte,
then aged 45, was elected leader of the
handful of Parliamentary Liberals with
the Melbourne solicitor Mr A. G. Rylah,
44, as deputy leader. The two were to
prove a formidable combination.
By 1952, John Cain was again Premier
of a Labor Government. Hollway had
gone and so had Norman, but their feud
had left the Liberal party a wreck, and on
the floor of the House Bolte only had 10
supporters. Before its term was up, the
Cain Government split wide open. It was
another lucky break for Bolte and he
capitalised on it to increase his party's
strength in the Assembly more than three-
fold. (He lacked and still does a
majority in the upper chamber.)
Within a year of taking office, he had
chalked up an impressive record. The
years of instability had left a vast number
of tasks to be done. In three months, 87
bills were passed by the new Parliament.
Some of the early measures were more
liberal trading hours for small shops and
garages, a tightening up of Sunday
liquor sales, heavier penalties for drunken
drivers and for illegal use of cars. Women
were made eligible for jury service for
the first time. In the economic field, rent
controls were relaxed and the probate
duty exemption raised from £ISOO to
£SOOO. Mr Rylah visited New Zealand
to study the off-course betting system
there, preparatory to introducing Vic-
toria’s own off-course tote. The notorious
Camp Pell slum was closed and pensioners
given free travel on public transport for
journeys to and from hospitals. The
Melbourne City Council was empowered
to grant leases for periods of up to 99
years for property under its control;
previously the limit was 21 years. This
cleared the way for the demolition of the
eld Eastern and Western markets, eye-
sores standing on some of the most
valuable land in Australia. On a few
minor matters Bolte found his legisla-
tion tossed out by the Legislative Council
where he could not equal the combined
vote of the Country and Labor parties,
but this did not weaken Victoria’s belief
that it at last had effective Government.
Bolte himself must have felt that things
were well under control for in 1956 he set
out on the first of his overseas trips to
“sell Victoria.” He spent most of the
time in USA and Canada meeting busi-
ness leaders, industrialists and potential
investors. The zeal which he has thrown
into his campaign to attract overseas
capital has not only helped change the
face of Victoria ; it has had an impact on
the whole of Australia and may w'ell
prove to be Bolte's greatest achievement
His expeditions have caused other State
Premiers, both Liberal and Labor, to
also go abroad in competition with Vic-
toria's drives to lure foreign investment.
Today, every State Government main-
tains a department or sub-department to
attract and facilitate investment from
abroad. Victoria has agencies at work
in San Francisco, New York and Lon-
don ; NSW has one in New York. It was
Henry Bolte who set the tempo, however.
On his second trip, in 1959, he ranged
into Europe, meeting executives from
such firms as Krupp, Daimler-Benz and
Volkswagen (all of whom are operating
businesses in Victoria). On his third “sell
Victoria” mission, scheduled for next
year, he plans to visit Japan before
going on to Britain and Europe with the
aim of sizing up the situation created
by the European Common Market.
As well as the Division of State De-
velopment, Victoria's apparatus for
attracting foreign investment includes a
non-Government agency, the Victoria
Promotion Committee. This consists of
Melbourne businessmen and industrialists,
headed by the present Lord Mayor of
Melbourne, Cr. Maurice Nathan. There
are limits to what civil servants can do
by way of helping to get new industries
established and the existence of the VPC
gives Victoria a more flexible apparatus.
The VPC concentrates largely on pub-
licity and contact work. It publishes a
monthly “Australia Newsletter” which is
distributed gratis to several hundred
leading US firms and a monthly “News
From Melbourne” which goes to British
executives, from its London office. The
differences between the two are interest-
ing; the Americans being wooed by Mr
Bolte get a snappy, newsletter style pub-
lication with facts and figures set out
in highly condensed form. The British
get a handsomely printed publication
based on the assumption of more
leisurely reading habits; it runs to
occasional cultural news and even fashion
items.
Another smart move by the VPC was
the commissioning of a survey of “In-
vestment Opportunities in Victoria, Aus-
tralia” by the Stanford Research Institute
of California, one of the most authorita-
tive economic research in
America. There are plenty of Australian
economists who could have turned out
a comparably sound survey, but what
American firm would be impressed? To
have Stanford underwrite Victoria's
claims to be a superlative investment
area was a master-stroke. Later, the
Nicklin Government copied the idea by
commissioning a similar survey of
Queensland done by the London “Econo-
mist'’ intelligence unit.
The Detroit of Australia
TThe question of whether Victoria or
NSW is getting the bigger share of the
capital inflow into Australia has been
argued often by their respective Premiers.
The Commonwealth Statistician does not
publish any figures which throw light
on the problem. Despite Liberal propa-
ganda to the contrary, overseas investors
(including Americans) are not adverse
to setting up factories in Labor-ruled
States. If Mr Bolte has the edge over
Mr Heffron, it is not because of his
political color, but probably because
labor and other costs are held more stable
in Victoria. The more liberal holidays
provided in NSW and the equal pay
legislation could be important.
Bolte has met a measure of criticism
over his campaigns to promote overseas
investment in Victoria, Some of it derives
from Left-wing critics who forget their in-
ternationalism where investment is con-
cerned. Others are moved to sneer by
the sheer flamboyancy of Bolte's boost-
ing. He has been called “Brag-and-
Boast” Bolte and it is easy to quote him
against himself in support of this. His
claim that Victorians were “living in
Utopia” is famous. On other occasions
he has called Melbourne “the Detroit
of Australia” and called Victoria “the
most dynamic and progressive State in
Australia.” The other States, he once
explained “are defeatists and drag-down
merchants.” Surveying his first five years
of office, he told an audience of business-
men that when he came to power he saw
as the major challenge, the need for Vic-
toria to assert herself and cease playing
second fiddle to NSW. On another
occasion he spoke of Victoria as “the
greatest little State in Australia.”
His 1961 election campaign was largely
waged in tones of Victorian progress in


the fields of industrial growth and
general development. It is a genuine en-
thusiasm with him and one which has
impelled him to become the greatest
“opener” in Victorian public life. He
is incessantly opening factories, bridges,
buildings, hospitals, kindergartens,
schools anything will do, be it a
canvas and blind factory, a cargo shed,
a ball-bearing works, a tyre factory, or
a petrochemicals plant. His speeches are
not distinguished by any great force,
subtlety or wit. Although he claims that
Mr Menzies is his political model, he
shows nothing of the Prime Menzies ego
or erudition. He leaves an impression of
honesty and geniality there is too much
of the “ordinary bloke” about him for
Henry Bolte to ever be seriously un-
popular. One of his political colleagues,
Sir Thomas Maltby, put it another way :
“He’s a bit earthy if you like, a bit
agricultural.”
He is certainly the main image of the
Government he heads, but in running the
State he leaves his Cabinet colleagues with
plenty of room for initiative. This is in
part responsible for the belief that Sir
Arthur Warner, Minister for Transport,
is the grey eminence behind Bolte.
Warner, as well as his portfolio, still
heads Victoria’s greatest electrical manu-
facturing business, Electronic Industrie's
Ltd, and has been active in the TV field.
Warner’s business interests have been an
embarrassment to Bolte, but it is clear
that he thinks that Sir Arthur’s business
ability outweighs the disadvantages of
any conflicting interests. More in the
public eye is the State Secretary, solici-
tor A. G. Rylah, city-bred, cool and
logical. Together they make a smoothly-
working team.
The most severe test of the Bolte
Government was in the June 1961 elec-
tions, just six months after Mr Menzies
had introduced his credit squeeze. Most
of Australia’s motor industry is located
in Victoria and the sackings at General
Motors and Ford were on a large-scale.
While there were no Chevron fiascos as
in Sydney and Perth, the building trade
was very hard hit and the flood of im-
ports had hit a number of Victorian in-
dustries, notably paper and textiles. As
the election neared and the unemploy-
ment tally mounted, the ALP was cock-
a-hoop. All it had to do was campaign
on the sins of the Menzies’ Government.
Bolte was too shrewd not to see the
danger, even well before the election.
At the Loan Council meeting in Feb-
ruary 1961 he warned that the November
measures would show their effects a lot
faster and more severely than the Federal
Government’s economic advisers ex-
pected. In the following weeks his anxiety
about his Government becoming a chop-
ping block for Mr Menzies’ policies in-
creased. Finally, he fle'w to Canberra with
Mr Rylah for an informal meeting with
Messrs Menzies and Holt. On his return
he stated that restoration of activity in
the building industry was the key to re-
covery in Victoria; he predicted that
more money would soon be available for
housing. Next day, hundreds rushed to
the Commonwealth Savings Bank, the
War Service Homes headquarters and the
State Home Finance Trust. About a
month later, Mr Bolte was able to
announce an extra £1 million of State
Savings Bank money was available for
housing.
The New Complacency
A s the election campaign drew on, he
warned that the true purpose of
federalism would be defeated if Victoria
fought its election on Federal issues. This
was exactly what the ALP was doing,
with Messrs Calwell and Whitlam playing
prominent roles. Bolte saw to it that the
Federal Liberals stayed clear, and con-
centrated on publicising his Govern-
ment’s record. Meanwhile, he was doing
everything that a State Premier could do
to stimulate employment; from January
to October 1961 there was a net gain
of more than 7000 on the Victorian
public payroll, mostly in the education
department, railways, trams, State Elec-
tricity Commission and the public works
department. Realising the damage being
done by uncontrolled imports, he took
the unusual step of addressing a letter
to the chairman of the Tariff Board,
Sir Leslie Melville, supporting the appli-
cation of Australian Paper Manufacturers
Ltd for duty on imported paper and
paperboard. The letter was read to the
board’s hearing by APM’s general
manager.
Labor’s complacency, together with
the second preferences of the DLP, were
important factors in securing Bolte’s re-
turn. His success in returning to office
with an increased majority created a new
wave of complacency this time in the
ranks of the Menzies Government. Had
Bolte lost ground, there is no doubt
that Mr Menzies would have campaigned
more energetically and positively. As it
was, the poor showing of the ALP in
the Victorian State elections lulled Mr
Menzies into a state of false security
which almost proved fatal to him. The
Victorian Liberals would be less than
human if they did not see some ironic
justice in the scare given to their Federal
colleagues.
After nearly seven years as Premier
and with the certainty of breaking the
Dunstan Government’s record for a long
term in office, Mr Bolte is showing that
his grip on events is becoming surer.
This is particularly true in the economic
field and there is a noticeable shift away
from the image of the plain, simple
farmer. He has formed definite ideas
about the European Common Market.
Last year, at a reception to a visiting
Italian trade and investment mission, he
plugged very firmly for it, telling his au-
dience that it was worth any temporary
deterioration in Australian trade for the
sake of the improved European stability
which would result. In the long term, a
strong and vigorous Western Europe
would benefit Australia. Again, at a
Rotary luncheon, he urged his audience
not to judge Britain hastily for entering
the Common Market. It would even-
tually see her restored to European
leadership after the initial difficulties.
His trip to New Zealand early this
year to negotiate over the sale of Tatter-
sail’s lottery tickets there was the
occasion for another foray into inter-
national economics. On his return he
urged an economic union of Australia
and New Zealand as the prelude to a
possible political union.
A vigorous 52, Bolte obviously has
many more years ahead of him in public
life. His comments on broad subjects of
international relations may be interpre-
ted as indicating some stirring of ambi-
tion to move into Federal politics. On
the whole, this is unlikely. He shows
no signs of being dissatisfied with being
Victoria’s Premier. What is more likely
is that he is feeling some degree of
authority as a successful Liberal leader
and is seeking to influence national
affairs from the rostrum he already occu-
pies. Everything indicates that in
economic policy he is an expansionist
who has been shocked by the Menzies
Government cut-backs of 1960. Mr Bolte,
having run a farm and a State success-
fully, feels that some advice on national
and even international economic affairs
is not out of place.


A STEAK IN THE COUNTRY
Public Relations in the bush
By PATRICIA ROLFE
The tourist bus, packed with journal-
ists, mainly city types, lurched
along the track, then stopped at
the main gates of “Keera” station
in north-west NSW. An employee of
“Keera” came forward and passed round
a handout. At once the journalists were
reassured. They might secretly loathe the
bush, they might normally think of
beef in the form of sausages or steak-
ettes, and not as something belligerent
on four feet, but give them a publicity
handout and they are on their own
ground, back on familiar territory.
In the old days, and not so many years
ago, a party of strangers approaching a
country holding would have been as-
sumed to be horse-thieves or cattle-
rustlers, and the owner would reach for
his gun. Now he might reach for his
typewriter and prepare a handout. PR
has overtaken the bush. Country people
have an amused, indulgent attitude to
it. They regard publicity as a weapon,
but not a deadly one, in the battle for
markets.
The journalists at “Keera” represent-
ing city and country Press were the
guests of the Royal Agricultural Society
and the Shell Oil company on a tour of
the north-west of NSW as a curtain-
raiser to the Royal Easter Show in
Sydney. This is the fifth such tour or-
ganised. The Shell Company foots the
bill. Shell regards the goodwill engender-
ed in the district, as well as editorial
mentions, as worth the cost.
“Keera” was one of the first places
visited. Its owner, Mr H. Gordon Munro,
has a flair for publicity and an ability
to sell which many city businessmen
might envy.
At “Keera” after lunch the journalists
were given a talk by Mr Munro on the
Better Beef Promotion scheme. Mr Mun-
ro also demonstrated one of the beef
packs which the scheme plans to ex-
port and to encourage Australians to
buy. As another publicity gesture, guests
were given paper serviettes printed with
a bull and the slogan “Angus—Beef at
its Best.” These serviettes have been
printed by the Aberdeen Angus Society.
The beef for lunch, flown from Sydney
and supplied by Thomas Playfair, was,
according to foul report, Hereford
“We only get this sort of stuff here
ourselves if one of the steers falls and
breaks a leg,” Mr Munro admitted, tuck-
ing in. The beef, Hereford or not, was
beautifully cooked in quantity by local
women, who, as an additional inspiration
on the part of Mr Munro, had cooked
damper, johnnie cakes, brownie and
stockman’s cakes, for the city people
to try.
At a picnic lunch at Nandewar bridge,
near Boggabri, on the property of Mr
Kelvin Vickery, the paper serviettes were
printed with “Corriedale the Better
Breed. Corriedales for Profit. Corriedales
for Wool. Corriedales for Mutton.” Mr
Vickery raises Corriedales.
(Later at another homestead, when one
journalist remarked that it was a
pleasant, old-style country house, the
wit of the party commented: “Yes, they
don’t even advertise on their serviettes.”)
Even the Royal Agricultural Society,
despite its austere reputation, was seek-
ing publicity for its Easter show. The
Sydney “Daily Mirror” man was looking
for candidates for Miss Royal Easter
Show. While the city journalists were
looking knowingly, if not knowledgably,
at the Angus stud stock, the man from
the “Mirror” was eyeing off the local
girls. Some of the candidates in the quest
were more concerned about how they
would look in a photograph than how
they looked in a country setting and
wore city clothes. They carefully picked
their way in tight skirts and winkle-picker
shoes through the cow-pads and high
grass to pose, with greater or less degree
of nervousness, with prize bulls. For the
sake of publicity.
Allied to this brave new sense of public
relations is the tremendous hospitality,
which in the country even these days is
not a cliche. In the city, businessmen
entertaining the Press are generally con-
tent to offer a quick drink and a quick
spiel in a hotel reception-room, but coun-
try people treat journalists as people.
Obviously, they still don’t know any
better. Or, rather, any worse.
For a picnic lunch at Keepit dam,
the women who help the Kelvin Junior
Farmers’ Club cooked at least 50
meringue pies, and transported them
carefully in station-wagons, so that not a
pie-shell was cracked. They coped with
flies, heat, no refrigeration and open
fires to provide picnic lunches for per-
haps 100 people, both at Keepit and at
Mr Vickery’s property. Even at large
country houses, where food and drink
were served on wide verandahs, with
intertwined vines shutting out the heat,
a day’s cooking had still been undertaken
for the visitors.
Hospitality still burns bright, and so
does tremendous pride in land. A coun-
tryman showing you his property, even
though he faces problems of marketing
and promotion not greatly different from
the city manufacturer, still feels and
thinks differently from the manufacturer
showing you his assembly line. He can —
and does —talk just as much of the Euro-
pean Common Market, US tariffs, the
prospects of Asian markets, but he still
feels totally different about his product.
For example, “Keera” has been con-
trolled for more than 100 years by three
generations of Munros, and Mr Munro,
in broad-brimmed hat and string tie,
is aware of it with every step he takes.
In 1885 “Keera” was 250,000 acres.
Now it is 6000, and the principal activi-
ties are the Angus and Shorthorn studs.
Mr Munro also manages nine other
properties in the district, thus defraying
administrative and running costs. Fifty-
five “souls” live at “Keera,” and the
property has its own store. Church
services are held there, and there is a
school, now administered by the Educa-
tion Department.
Perhaps the Scots can most success-
fully transplant their customs and atti-
tudes and keep them unchanged after
three generations. Certainly they do it
better than the English. It may be lack
of humor, or a faulty ear for music. Mr
Munro had a piper in a kilt to welcome
the party. He was Mr Jock Stewart from
Inverell, scarlet in the face and dripping
with sweat under the bright sun of open
paddocks in the kilt designed for the
bitter cold of the Highlands. Mr
Stewart may have looked incongruous,
but somehow he didn’t look foolish.
Mr Munro had organised the tour with
the precision of a military operation.


See file Olympic jumping at the
YAL
STER
HOW
THE FAMILY SHOW
SYDNEY SHOWGROUND, 13th APRIL
TO 24th APRIL, 1962
Don’t miss seeing Australia’s
world-champion horsemen. You’ll
thrill at the action-packed pro-
grammes arranged at this yaar’s
Royal Easter Show.
«
&
i
m.
I
m
The visit included a trip to the granite
monument to members of the Munro
family at the top of a hill on the property.
To make sure the visitors’ bus would be
able to make the trip to the monument,
Mr Munro had someone run a bulldozer
over the track earlier in the day.
The Better Beef Promotion scheme
which Mr Munro talked about was
devised by representatives of the beef-
cattle breed societies, graziers’ associ-
ations, the Housewives’ Association of
Sydney and Sydney woolbrokers and live-
stock agents.
“People have been getting tough meat
at high prices,” Mr Munro said. “Pro-
cessing has been bad and beef has been
sold too soon after slaughter. Meat is
graded for export but not for local con-
sumption.”
Mr Munro said that the scheme did not
intend to compete with butchers, but
merely to show people what beef could
and should be, and to try to offset the
continual drop in beef consumption in
Australia.
At present, Thomas Playfair and Sons
are the only wholesale butchers preparing
the beef packs for the promotion scheme,
but the committee expected to reach
agreement with other wholesale butchers,
who will conform to the required con-
ditions of preparation, and to establish
retail outlets.
Beef packaged by the promotion
scheme would be hung for from 14 to 21
days, then vacuum-packed. The original
packs, put on the market with a pilot
scheme last Christmas, were a whole
baron of beef, but smaller packs, even
down to a pound of steak, are planned.
The beef packs work out at about ss. 6d.
a pound, plus freight, but the committee
expects that with changes in packaging,
the price will come down.
On an organised tour when you cover
more ground than on a routine country
holiday or business-trip, you wonder
again who in 1962 is the countryman. The
old stereotypes are as wide of the mark
as other generalisations about Australians.
The countryman is Mr Munro ; it is the
beautifully dressed women, with high
voices and thin smiles, wandering around
the home paddock with pale silk sun-
shades to shelter their white skins and
pink-tinted hair ; it is the oldest inhabi-
tant of Moree, the local history, rising 96
and talking about The Bulletin at the
turn of the century ; it is the smart young
salesman in the plaid sports jacket. with
gold buttons; it is the sun-browned
young woman, sitting on a river bank
and talking about Hal Porter short
stories, and worrying because, in spite of
an Arts degree from Sydney, she still
cannot “understand” Patrick White.
One matter on which country people
still have to think differently from city
people is the education of their children.
State aid for church schools is a lively
issue in NSW, but city people generally
think of it as involving free choice —if you
don’t want to pay fees, a State school is
available. But most country people have
no choice. The children, beyond a cer-
tain stage, must go away to school.
Young people, when talking of how
things are going on their place, and
calculating their financial prospects,
always add the rider that “once the child-
ren have to go away it’ll be another £lOOO
or £2OOO a year”—depending, of course,
on the size of the family and the age
groups.
Some of them say that the old snob-
oeries about acnoois are dying. Some
of them say that they would be just as
happy to send their children to the State
school in the nearest town if suitable
accommodation were available. They
think the solution would be hostels, run
by Church or State (a few do exist), so
that children could attend the High
schools, which, in some cases, are
operating far below capacity.
Although the younger people claim that
snobberies about schools, and even about
types of farming, are declining, the
amount, or quality, of snobbery is still
one of the striking things about the
country. There may not be more of it
than in the city, but it certainly is differ-
ent. Rarely inverted, it is an open, full-
bodied snobbery which hits home power-
fully.
There was the shire councillor, who
after a long and solemn discussion on the
state of the nation, sucked on his pipe for
fully 30 seconds and then said: “And,
Miss Rolfe, do you live on the North
Shore?”


CRUSADER
FRED SCHWARZ
Australia Squares off with America for Comrade Harry
Bridges
“I believe in income tax”
Dr Fred Schwarz, back with his
family in Concord, Sydney, for a
rest from the rigors of his
Christian Anti - Communism
Crusade in America, cracked his knuckles
as we searched for an ash-tray among the
oriental vases, candles and family pic-
tures in his spacious sitting room, and
said: “I’m sick of being tied in with
crazy American Right-wing groups. I’m
not a Right-winger. Look, who is the
symbol of anti-communism in Europe?
Willi Brandt! And he’s a socialist. As
far as I’m concerned I don’t care whether
they’re Left-wing or Right-wing, as long
as they’re anti-communist. Here, use
this as an ash-tray.” It was a china shoe.
It is obviously a non-smoking house.
“I get a very raw deal from the
American Press. They write their articles
atmospheric pieces about mass
hysteria—before they send their reporters
out to hear me speak and then they just
quote one or two words to make it
sound real. I’m through with ‘News-
week.’ I was through with ‘Time’ too,
but after I wrote to Luce they redeemed
themselves in February with one of the
fairest magazine articles on our move-
ment I’ve yet read. February 9.
“Yes, it’s true the John Birch Society
has recruited members from our schools,
but it’s the churches’ fault for not
recruiting them first. I work like Billy.”
(He meant Billy Graham.) “He doesn’t
urge his audiences to join any particular
church. We don’t urge ours to join any
particular party. Anyhow we're mainly
concerned with the Sino-Soviet foreign
policy rather than domestic politics. If
all the Australian and American com-
munists disappeared tomorrow, it would
make no difference to the basic problem.”
What did he himself think of the new
American Right-wingers? “Well, they’ve
never taught me anything. I learnt all I
know about communism in Australia.
The only American who ever influenced
me was Whittaker Chambers. His book
‘Witness’ is the best book on communism
ever written.” But what about particular
groups? The Birchites? “Well, I believe
in income tax.” We nodded uncertainly.
“They think it is a communist con-
spiracy,” he went on. “That’s enough.”
Senator Goldwater? “I won’t have him
on my platform. He’s too closely identi-
fied with the Republican Party.”
William Buckley Ir. “Sharp as a needle.
I don’t accept his Catholicism but he's a
good man.” Senator McCarthy? “Oh,
he was an anarchist. Here, have a soft
drink.”
\)t7E were naturally curious about Dr
’’ Schwarz, Australia’s compensation
to America for Harry Bridges. Not only
has he made his mark on American
history but if his Crusade catches on back
here, as he hopes, it will be the first
time an Australian Protestant movement
has really pulled its weight in fighting
communists. To date many Protestants
have been content to leave the work to the
Catholics and the DLP —and have done
so ever since a fellow-travelling version
of “social gospel” supplanted evangeli-
cism in the 19305.
Schwarz is the son of a Jewish second-
hand dealer from Vienna who was con-
verted to Pentecostalism. Born in Brisbane
in 1913 he grew up in an evangelical
atmosphere and absorbed the internat-
ional outlook of the missionary Baptists.
(Missions in Africa, Missions in Asia,
Missions in South America.) After leaving
Brisbane Grammer he graduated at
Queensland University in Science, Arts
and finally Medicine. He was President of
the Evangelical Union at the University
and formed the Christian Revellers, the
forerunner of the Saturday-night-Youth-
for Christ clubs, which trained preachers,
conducted missions, and provided
speakers for church groups.
Although he was first involved in anti-
communism when he debated Max
Julius, the Queensland communist, in
1940, it was some years before he became
a “professional”. At first he was better
known as a radical agitator among junior
doctors. In 1944 he led a movement of
junior doctors in Brisbane General Hos-
pital to join the Miscellaneous Workers’
Union so that they could approach the
Arbitration Court to increase their
salaries (which were then £3 3s. a week).
Despite the scandal this caused in ihe
medical profession, they persevered,
although they found they did not have
to join the Union since any group of 25
people not covered by an award could
approach the court themselves. Schwarz
prepared and presented their case and they
won an award a little higher than the
basic wage.
Later still, and particularly after his
family (he has three children) moved to
Sydney, he was active in the sex educa-
tion movement. He was at this time
psychiatric adviser to the Sydney
Marriage Guidance Bureau. But by now
he was getting more deeply involved in
the communist question and sometimes a
newspaper would carry two stories about
Schwarz of about equal length, one
attacking the communist conspiracy and
another attacking sexual ignorance.
(Except to emphasise occasionally that
some communists are clinically mad. he
has tended to keep his interest in politics
and sexual psychology in separate
compartments).
Soon however his prominence as an
anti-communist speaker became so great
that in 1950 he was invited to tour
America for two months. In 1953 he sold
up his medical practice in Sydney and
went back to America to establish the
Crusade. It was then worth 10 dollars ;
now it has a million and Schwarz has
become one of the most controversial
men in the United States and in the
Leftist circles one of the most hated.
The typical Crusade works like this.
Whenever a group of local citizens
sponsor him, a one-week school is set
up with lectures from 8.30 a.m, to
9.45 p.m. each day. Each student pays
$2O for the course. Commonly the local


For all
your
family
banking
see the ES&A Bank
Think of the advantages, the time-saving convenience, of one-stop
banking for all your family needs. At any E.S. & A. Office you enjoy
every modern banking service including • Savings Bank facilities
• Cheque Accounts • Interest-bearing Term Deposits • Hire
Purchase finance through Esanda Ltd. • Complete travel service
both in Australia and abroad • Unit Trust investment through
E.S. &A. Managed Investments and many others. For further infor-
mation, call on the Manager of your nearest E.S. &A. Bank. He’ll
be glad to give you details of the many friendly services the E.S. & A.
can offer you.
Savings Accounts Cheque Accounts
Established 1852
THE ENGLISH SCOTTISH AND AUSTRALIAN BANK LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
Save for tomorrow, today .. „ Bank E.S.&A.
ISA!
Mayors call for an Anti-communism
Week and there is advance publicity, often
unfavorable, in the Press. Then the
Crusade arrives. Schwarz lectures every
day on such subjects as “The Philosophy
of Communism” and “Communist
Fronts.” (He has no new discoveries to
offer on these subjects and doesn’t claim
to have any: he tells what interested
people have always known, but which the
general public has always been ignorant
of or indifferent to.) There are always a
few guest speakers. Then a set of study
circles are formed and the Crusade leaves
town with a few thousand more names on
its mailing lists. In addition he has
recently launched a three-hour TV pro-
gramme 7 to 10 p.m., and his book “You
Can Trust The Communists,” recently
published here by Jacaranda Press in
Brisbane, has been sent to every minister,
priest, rabbi and High school in America.
Every six months he returns home to
visit his wife and family and address
meetings for the local Crusade. This
trip they held meetings in Brisbane (1500
people). Lismore (700) and Sydney.
“Come along tomorrow night,” Schwarz
said as The Bulletin left. “We always
have trouble getting a good crowd in the
big cities.”
'IX7E went and he was right. Only about
200 turned up. It had been poorly
advertised: the Crusade here has no
money and is heavily subsidised by the
American Crusade. (They have a set of
radio programmes prepared but can’t
afford to run them.) The platform was
draped with the Crusade’s emblem —a
knight blowing a trumpet —and at the
door the Crusaders sold anti-communist
comics, leaflets (“Will you be free to cele-
brate Christmas in the future?”), and
books. (He agreed some of them may
exaggerate but their purpose is only to
start people thinking ; he also agreed that
to put a sinister beard on the communist
in the comic book was absurd : “Leftist
and rightist eccentrics may wear beards
but communists are usually clean-
chinned these days. We’ll have to
correct that in later editions.” The
audience was middle-aged, church-going
with a thick leavening of young people.
The meeting kicked off with a hymn and
then Schwarz spoke on “Is Disarmament
a Communist Conspiracy?”
Whatever may be his technique in
America, he is using the soft sell here. He
hammered clearly at the obvious points:
that some issues in life are not negotiable;
that compromises are not always
possible ; that though the communists aim
at world conquest and will go to war if
necessary, they would prefer us to
surrender peacefully ; hence they want
us to disarm so that in a crisis every
counsel of prudence would dictate
surrender. Today faced with a choice
between the risk of atomic destruction
and the certainty of communist slavery,
we have to choose the risk. It’s a hard
world.
He is no great orator. The atmosphere
was reminiscent of an adult education
class. The question time was weak:
someone asked an inaudible question
about Italy and, while Schwarz was
answering, walked out in disgust ; some-
one else asked him what he thought of
the idea that communism is a Jewish
conspiracy and he said it was a ridiculous
and dangerous illusion which Christians
must scorn.
After two collection bowls had been
passed around, a total of £36 was handed
in—not enough to cover the cost of the
meeting. “Well,” said Dr Schwarz,
“you've got to work at these things.
But I’ll bet they’re preparing a big recep-
tion in New York.”
PETER COLEMAN


PRITCHARD:
A TALL ORDER
"I Haven’t Got out Among the Reds Yet”
/Conductor of the London Philharmonic
Orchestra, John Pritchard, says that
the Edinburgh Festival has now become
“something of a bargain basement.”
“Perhaps I should say department store,”
he amended quickly, “but what I mean
is, there is too much of everything.”
Pritchard is a festival man from the
early postwar years. He began conduct-
ing at Glyndebourne in 1948 (“It is still
my favorite of all festivals”), conducts
every year at Edinburgh and has been
guest conductor at small festivals in
England and at European festivals.
Pritchard, a large, soft man of 41, in
September will become permanent con-
ductor of the London Philharmonic and
next year its artistic director. He has
been named in Britain as “the legitimate
successor to Beecham, Boult, Barbirolli,
and Sargent” which he certainly would
agree is a tall order.
On the orchestra’s current tour, which
takes in India, Hong Kong, Manila, and
Colombo as well as Australia, Pritchard
has kept a tactful few paces behind one
of the men, whose mantle is supposedly
about to fall on him Sir Malcolm
Sargent.
Between them on the tour Sir Malcolm
and Pritchard are doing 31 concerts, 20
of them in Australia. Sir Malcolm said
that in India most of the audience would
be hearing a Western orchestra for the
first time live, although, he believed, many
of the audience would have good record
collections.
Both Sir Malcolm and Pritchard were
delighted with the Adelaide Festival.
“My advice to them is to keep on the
way they are going.” Sir Malcolm said.
Sir Malcolm, the trademark carnation in
the buttonhole of his pale-grey, double-
breasted suit, is as quick, neat and
amiable as ever. He remained amiable
even when a crass young reporter (appar-
ently in possession of his wits, and cer-
tainly in possession of a biography of Sir
Malcolm, prepared by the A.8.C., which
said that Sir Malcolm had been here six
times, the last time only two years ago)
asked: “And is this your first time
here?”
“My advice to the Adelaide people is
not to try too much,” Pritchard said.
“The whole thing about a festival is that
it is a bit of a holiday. People w'ant to
go and see a city or town with a reputa-
tion for some sort of charm —and
Adelaide has that —and after the per-
formances they want to talk about what
they have seen, and share experiences.
But you can't do that at Edinburgh now.
It is too big. There might be five films,
several plays and Lord only knows how
many musical performances—it is just like
a night out anywhere.”
Mr Pritchard said that although his
work would now take him further away
from opera, he felt that conducting at
an opera house was the best possible
training for a conductor.
“I was marvellously lucky to go to
Glyndebourne,” he said. “You get so
many oactv-ioom jobs to do at an opera
house, for example, conducting a choir
off-stage when you can only be seen
through a tiny hole in the set, and so on.
“I feel I have a bit of greasepaint in my
veins,” he said. “I think of every concert
as a first night at the opera. I feel that
there should be a good presentation of the
orchestra, that the whole stage should be
got up as attractively as possible.” (This
was a few hours before his first concert
in Sydney, and who would have had the
heart to describe to him the forest of
Kentia palms that flourishes on the stage
of the Sydney Town Hall).
Mr Pritchard said his chief recreations
were good food and wine.
“I have found some very good whites
here,” he said, “but I haven’t got out
much among the reds yet. The rieslings
are very good and so are the chablis.
“Now I really must get an orange
squash,” he said, darting off. “I’m very
thirsty.”
PATRICIA ROLFE
When Executives Crack Up
Life Sometimes Ends at 40
For years Australian executives have
lived and prospered in a compara-
tively non-competitive market.
Even mediocre ones were able to
get good reputations because in a boom
the business comes in anyway. Almost
overnight these conditions have changed
and there are now signs that health
casualties are soaring among Australian
executives in their mid-forties. The
credit squeeze, the profit squeeze, the
takeover squeeze and the Common
Market, are literally giving many of them,
too many, heart failure.
The signs of strain take several forms.
It is seen in the increasing number of
executives who are trying to change to
more compatible jobs before a health toll
is taken through worry, lack of sleep,
smoking, alcohol, excessive travelling,
reduced home life, overwork and in-
adequate relaxation.
It is also seen in the concern among
insurance company executives who must
face increasing numbers of compensation
claims while one key company executive
after another recovers from some crack-
up in his physical and mental health.
Overseas, Australian executives will
continue to face much greater market-
ing challenges with the possible entry of
Great Britain into the European Common
Market. At home the shareholders’
pressure on companies because of re-
duced dividends is passed on, in turn, by
Boards of Directors to top management.
Coupled with these economic pressures
many executives have had to battle with
reduction in administrative expenditures,
staff and sales promotion expenditure
including advertising. In their places
many companies have had quickly to
increase personal face-to-face selling con-
tacts as a way of increasing urgently re-
quired revenue. During this same period
of turbulence and rapid reorientation
many doctors said that the circumstances
caused mild cases of shock when some
executives realised the possibility of
personal failure.
For years Australian business com-
placency has been lightly brushed aside.
Now the boom is in education - intense
pressure-packed management education.
Classes on all aspects aimed at the per-
sonal how-to-do-it level are jammed to
capacity. The desire for greater personal
efficiency is enthusiastically endorsed by
many Australian companies who agree
to pay these tuition fees.
Much physical toll of the period, how-
ever, can be traced to overwork, unpre-
paredness for the marketing challenge,
a job dedication beyond physical re-
sources and personal fears of inadequacy
and of failure. There are examples in
Sydney when men have resigned jobs
because of health reasons and had their


WORLD-WIDE
RE Q 0.
100% British Made
w,\
the iron that travels...
The Tilley Domestic Iron goes anywhere, tackles any-
thing. NO flex to get in your way; it is entirely
self-contained, and runs for 4 hours on one filling
pint of ordinary kerosene). Clean, easy to use, with
exact heat control.
For trouble-free ironing, anytime, anywhere, you
can put your trust in TILLEY.
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores. In
case of difficulty write to: —
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY PTY. LIMITED
1092 Mt. Alexander f?d., Essendon, W. 5. Australia
“Which one of you kids has been
using my blades again ?”
job filled by not one but three men. Some
appointments are still unfilled because of
the lack of suitable applicants who are
prepared to accept the former’s load re-
quirements. Many jobs have simply been
abolished for this same reason.
Yet by and large Australian manage-
ment is not very original in how it func-
tions. It is content to copy. This makes
its present marketing problems more
difficult to solve because it must learn,
and learn quickly, how to come through
this difficult transitional period using its
own skills to face known and as yet un-
known problems.
This will require more Australians to
appreciate that the physical demands on
most jobs are now much higher than they
were, say, five years ago. They have a
bad reputation to overcome. As Mr C.
T. Pullen said to the Australian Institute
of Management in Perth about our
export market: “Australians have a
bad reputation in some countries, where
they are known as the ‘manana boys’
tomorrow will do.” A similar observa-
tion was recently made by another ex-
port-seeking executive. He noted the large
quantities of Danish beer and American
fresh fruit in the Asian countries as
compared with a comparative absence of
equivalent Australian products.
Many agree that if we are to reduce
our executive casualties through hyper-
tension, heart murmurs and high blood
pressure we must learn to benefit from
pre-planning in all our business activi-
ties to a much greater extent. As one
San Francisco paint manufacturer, W. P.
Fuller and Co., pointed out following an
American trade recession : “We now
have a first-class marketing division
which means sales-planning instead of
just Hip, Hip, Hoorah, let’s go out and
sell!”
TTealth casualties and related compli-
cations are frequently associated
with prolonged frustration and poor
communications within a company. Apart
from affecting efficiency, hostility be-
tween individuals has also claimed many
a victim. A not uncommon expression
among many Australian executives is,
“Everyone knows when we're moving
except me!” A similar tension is ex-
perienced when no information is re-
leased during obviously adverse trading
conditions. As one Sydney man recently
said : “A great deal of emotional strain
could have been avoided around here
if someone ‘upstairs’ had told us some
of the facts.”
Another new phenomenon entering
the jungle of Australian administration
is the need for fewer executives through
increased company amalgamations and
takeovers. Much overlapping of func*
tions is inevitable, and until it is resolved
much personal uncertainty will be evi-
dent following such mergers.
The ulcer and the coronary occlusion
cannot be avoided through status sym-
bols. Financial independence is frequently
impossible because of contribution
periods to superannuation funds, chil-
dren’s educational fees, home mortgage
commitments and living standards re-
lated to expenditure of executive fringe
benefits and taxation adjustments. So
what can be done?
Last year at the 129th annual meeting
of the British Medical Association in
New Zealand doctors from all over the
British Commonwealth had a good look
at the health problems of middle-aged
executives. They found that the best
remedies only amounted to exercise, diet
and common sense. Without them the
slogan must be: not only “too-old-at-35”
but “your next promotion can kill you.”


TIMID FACE OF TREASON
Raoul Salan, now leading the thugs of the Secret Army from
his hideout in Algeria, is a frightened little man.
There has always been a flavor of
Ancient Rome about the French
Army’s tragedy in Algeria. Among
the retired Generals who led last
April’s putsch, Salan in many ways played
Cassius to Challe’s Brutus, against that
imperious Caesar in the Elysee, de Gaulle.
Maurice Challe, now in a French gaol,
was indeed “an honorable man” who
typified the nobler side of the Army’s
misguided sense of mission to remain
in Algeria and its bitter desperation
after two long, useless colonial wars.
There is nothing so noble about the
wily, secretive and uncharming Raoul
Salan, now leading the thugs of the
Secret Army from his hideout in Algeria
and wanted for the guillotine by French
military justice. Yet he is France’s most
decorated officer and was considered
until 1958 the most republican of generals,
even a man of the Left.
It is reasonable to suppose that Salan
chose his present disastrous role more
through wounded vanity than positive
ambition or conviction. But he has been
overwhelmed by events and cannot
now turn back. His lack of human
warmth, or of any moral force or
idealism, even of a negative fascist kind,
makes it hard to feel pity for him, or
even the respect and fear sometimes due
to a tyrant.
In the OAS, Salan is mainly a five-star
figurehead, lending the Secret Army the
rank and prestige it badly needs while
fanatics like Godard and Susini wield the
real power. Indeed, it may be that Salan
has tried, though ineffectively, to be a
restraining influence on the murderous
forces formally under his command. No
doubt he has political ambition, though
in this he is probably less a fascist than
an old-style republican who wants to get
rid of “dictator” de Gaulle. Political
power appeals to his vanity. But the
will-power to get it comes mainly from
his tough and sinister little wife.
Now that the hour of the Secret Army
has come with the cease-fire in Algeria,
Salan faces the climax of a long career
built on inferiority complexes, on pru-
dence tinged with vacillation and on the
knowledge of his long-standing unpopu-
larity in the French Army. He was born
near Toulouse in June, 1899, the son of
a Protestant doctor with radical leanings.
He did brilliantly at St Cyr the French
Sandhurst and then joined the colonial
infantry. This was a decisive choice for
it has kept him overseas throughout most
of his career and so has led him to mis-
understand French realities.
Posted to the Far East, he reached
his next decisive moment when he trans-
ferred into the Intelligence branch which
ideally suited his mind and temperament.
By the mid-1930s he was running an
elaborate secret network for the French
in this part of the world. He became
known as Le General Chinois and Le
Mandarin a sly and inscrutable figure.
A Dislike of de Gaulle
The events of 1940 found him in West
Africa, where he helped to defend Dakar
against de' Gaulle and the Free French.
Prudence and a timid desire to cover him-
self had kept him loyal to Vichy. At
this time he formed a personal dislike of
de Gaulle which has gathered strength
across the years. He resents feeling in-
ferior and inarticulate in de Gaulle’s
commanding presence.
In 1943, Salan swung over with the
changing tide to the French forces
fighting on the side of the Allies and
campaigned brilliantly in Southern
France a year later. Soon he was back
in Indo-China and became operational
adjutant to the Commander-in-Chief, the
great Jean de Lattre de Tassigny. Here
Salan got to understand the communist
Viet-Minh and developed a taste for
Buddhism, opium and Chinese fans.
When de Lattre died, Salan took over
as C.-in-C., and showed himself a
cautious strategist, never risking big
losses, always covering retreats. In fact,
he lived up to what de Lattre had said
of him in a famous phrase : “Ne part
jamais sans biscuit.” The Army and the
Right suspected him of favoring negotia-
tions. Although a timely transfer home
spared him the disgrace of Dien Bien
Phu, Salan was not quickly forgiven for
leaking to the Left-wing paper L’Express
his own secret report declaring war in
Indo-China to be hopeless without much
greater effort.
So when, three years later, the Socialists
who were then in power in France
appointed him C.-in-C. in Algeria, the
extreme Right became alarmed. It was
feared that Salan would favor a sell-out
as he had seemed to do in Indo-China.
So the Rightists tried to murder him in
the sensational bazooka episode of
January, 1957, when they blasted his
office in Algiers, killing his adjutant but
doing Salan himself no harm. He has
come a long way since then. Some of the
bazooka assassins are now his staunchest
accomplices.
Using large conscript forces, Salan
set out to “pacify” Algeria. By May 9,
1958, he was openly warning Paris of
the military dangers of political flirtation
with the FLN. Yet he had no part in
planning for the May 13 revolt against
the Fourth Republic. For ten days he
played his now notorious double game
of sitting on the fence between the French
Prime Minister Pflimlin on the one side
and the Gaullists on the other. He wanted
to be covered either way. In fact, he
tried hard to reach a compromise with
Pflimlin after May 13 rather than face
the return of de Gaulle. But the Gaullists
subtly pushed him into burning his
boats and joining the mutiny.
This was Salan’s first open breach
with legality and seemed to snap some
scruple which had restrained him till


then. When he had held the centre of
the world’s stage for three weeks, this
mediocre and timid man saw himself at
last as a great personality. He emerged
from the revolt a changed man, totally
committed to “Algerie francaise.” The
devilish Algiers alchemy had worked in
him as it did in Soustelle - and the rest.
Although still C.-in-C. he began to un-
dermine de Gaulle’s more liberal policy.
De Gaulle was patient with Salan, but
in December of that year transferred him
to a humiliating sinecure the military
governorship of Paris. Salan never for-
gave this snub. He retired from the Army
a year or so later, was wooed by the
“activists” to become their leader and
in September, 1960, began openly de-
nouncing de Gaulle's policy. For this
he was banned from Algeria. A month
later he slipped into Spain to avoid
arrest and there, in February, 1961, he
founded the OAS with some other
Right-wing fugitives.
Out the ex-colonels who really ruled
the OAS chose Challe rather than
Salan to head their putsch of April 22.
Challe was furious when Salan turned
up in Algiers the next day and in Treize
Mai style began trying to enlist the
civilian mob in what Challe had planned
as a military operation. Challe surren-
dered before the mob got going and
Salan, amid rumors of suicide, went into
hiding in Algeria and has stayed there
ever since. In July he was condemned
to death in absentia.
An Elusive Pimpernel sought by
official Frenchies everywhere, Salan is
said to have paid secret visits to Brussels
and into Switzerland, but has kept most
of the time to the shelter of friendly
villas in Algiers and posts in the bled. He
wears disguise (a moustache and a new
hair-style), has changed his residence
frequently and enjoyed the connivance
of Army units. Several times he has nearly
been caught. Once, it is said, the CRS
(armed police) were on his tail but were
chased away by regular paratroops.
Though the Army does not like him,
“soldier does not arrest soldier” is their
code.
Slight, silver-haired, with a dull face,
Salan lacks presence. People find him
courteous, but reserved and unsympa-
thetic. He has few close friends and
chooses his aides badly. He lacks real
culture and does not play games or
smoke or drink or womanise. His main
weakness in the superficial range is a
love of pomp. As C.-in-C. he adored
being surrounded by motor-cyclists in
white gloves.
His emotional prop is his wife
“Bib'che,” a severely elegant little
woman, tough and embittered, lame from
an old war wound she suffered when an
army nurse. On the famous May 13
night in Algiers, when Salan was desper-
ately deciding with Massu what to do
about the revolt, he kept dashing into
the next office to seek reassurance from
her.
Though most of the OAS leaders are
moderate fascists of the Salazar type,
Salan retains a republican nostalgia. His
tragedy is that of the unsure man trying
to escape through great actions from
his own sense of mediocrity. He is too
colorless to be really dangerous. The
OAS itself, and men like Godard and
Soustelle - , are mightily to be feared, but
not Salan. Behind that inscrutable Chinese
mask there is only a vain and frightened
little man writing methodical notes on
bits of paper.
PERON HOLDS THE KEY
FROM A LONDON CORRESPONDENT
After holding out against Army
pressure for 11 days, President
Arturo Frondizi has been deposed
by Argentina’s three Armed Ser-
vices. He is now the “guest” of the Army,
30 miles from Buenos Aires, where luan
Peron was imprisoned after the Army
overthrew him in 1955. But the first ques-
tion to be asked about Argentina to-
day is what should a democratic Govern-
ment do when a sovereign literate people
choose in large numbers at a free election
to support anti-democratic candidates?
What the deposed President Frondizi
had done before the Army imposed him
(obviously under powerful Army pres-
sure), was to take advantage of a con-
stitution to “intervene” in five of the
erring “Peronista” provinces: Buenos
Aires, Tucuman, Santiago del Estero,
Rio Negro and Neuquen—all of them
outlying and predominantly rural.
“Intervention” means that the Federal
authority can take over a Province which
is not being administered for the public
good, and it seems a stretching of the
law to invoke it to suppress Governments
which have only just been elected.
The second question, and the basic one,
is why a free - and relatively prosperous
people should choose dictatorship. Part
of the answer is that until the 1940 s
many Argentines were not prosperous
and, in the rural areas, their theoretical
freedom was not worth much. The
country’s wealth depended on the huge
estancias which brought great riches to
their owners, many of them living in
Buenos Aires or Paris and some of them
being faceless corporations with head-
quarters in London or Brussels. The
colonos or tenant farmers and peones or
agricultural laborers who worked on
these ranches often lived like virtual serfs,
deeply in debt to the company stores
where they had to buy all their needs,
and at the same time liable to eviction
at a moment’s notice.
They had the vote, but, particularly in
the more remote areas, intimidation was
rife, and where the voters could not be
intimidated the returning officers could,
so that these constituencies never failed
to return Conservatives, who fooled no-
body by calling themselves National
Democrats. It was an intolerable state
of affairs for the descendants of the
free-riding gauchos of the nineteenth
century.
In the cities things were better, though
industry was in its infancy and the few
trade unions were too weak to do much
about the rights of the urban workers.
Their votes were not tampered with, but
that was about all.
In spite of all this, at the turn of the
century a group of liberal-minded poli-
ticians founded the Union Civica Radical
(UCR), which managed to form a series
of Governments under such far-seeing
“It's for you.”


I X L
This World Famous Brand is Manufactured
and Distributed by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES AND
ASSOCIATED COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
Established 1562
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX (Vice-Chairman),
R. J. VICARS. A. MURRAY JONES, HIGH DIXON,
D. A. T. DICKINS, K. B. MYERS, A. E. STEPHEN.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of Every Description
J. O. LEWIS, General Manager.
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the Manager,
who will quote you a price for the original.
Presidents as Roque Saenz Pena, who
introduced the secret ballot and universal
male suffrage in 1912. However, the
UCR suffered from three defects : (a) an
inability to capture the corrupt Provinces;
(b) a tendency to become more cautious
and conservative in office; and (c) a split
in its own ranks, now perpetuated in the
division between Frondizi’s UCRI and
the People’s Radicals (UCRP) led by Dr
Ricardo Balbin.
In 1930, the Radical Government of
the senile Hipolito Irigoyen had become
so inefficient and extravagant that the
Army staged its first takeover. They
returned the country in due course to the
politicians, but these had not changed,
and in 1943 the Army took over again.
This time the results were disastrous, for
one of their number, Lieutenant-Colonel
Juan D. Peron, forsook his military
career, became a spell-binding rabble-
rouser on behalf of the oppressed classes,
built up a huge trade-union movement,
married an ambitious and indefatigable
working-class girl called Eva Duarte, and
won the Presidential, Congressional and
Provincial elections of 1945 by an over-
whelming majority.
Promises, Then Some More
'T'hough the elections were character-
A ised by intimidation, misrepresenta-
tion and emotional ballyhoo, there is no
doubt the result represented the feelings
of the Argentine working-class. D. ring
Peron’s 10 years in office (a constitutional
amendment was bulldozed through to
allow him a second term) they could
truthfully say they had “never had it so
good.” Sophisticated people were dis-
gusted at the slogans, the corruption, the
shackling of the Press and radio, the
muzzling of the Radical opposition.
Businessmen and economists were horri-
fied at the squandering of the nation’s
resources ; the universities were enraged
at State interference in education. But
the masses only saw rising wages, easier
hire-purchase, and promises, promises.
In the end it was the middle-class, the
Army and the Catholic Church which
overthrew Peron —not the people. When,
after a period of interim government by
Army officers pledged only to keep the
machine running, elections were held in
1958, Frondizi was elected because of his
promises to the Peronistas —who were
told by the exiled dictator to vote UCRI.
When it subsequently proved that the
new President intended to pursue a very
different course, the mid-term elections
showed a high proportion of blank bal-
lots. By law all electors must vote;
Peronista candidates were not permitted ;
a blank ballot in the great majority of
cases w'as a vote for Peron. The recent
elections were a proof of this. What
happens now in Argentina is uncertain.
But it is unlikely that the Army’s new
President, Jose Maria Guido, will rule
long over such a troubled land.


FORUM
KHRUSHCHEV'S "WAR"
WITH MAO
The Fight is Over the Best Way to Cut Our Throats
By FRANK KNOPFELMACHER
LOT of nonsense has been written about the changes in the USSR since
Stalin s death and about the split between Khrushchev and Mao. Wish-
ful thinking about these matters flourishes, particularly among Left-wing
intellectuals. What does the Thaw in the USSR since 1953 really amount to?
What does the Sino-Soviet split mean?
Until last year the main features of the
Soviet thaw were these : Stalin’s private
terror machine was dismantled and its
chief technicians including Beria were put
to death. The purged Secret Police was
reorganised and placed under the control
of the party presidium. The system of ad-
ministrative liquidations and deportations
was abolished (though this has never been
publicly announced). The concentration
camp empire has been greatly reduced
in numbers and somewhat humanised.
The labor code was humanised, too, now
leaching almost the level of the more
reactionary European Police States before
1848. The minimum age for the death
penalty was raised from 12 to 14 years,
but it was extended to cover “economic
crimes”. Death and imprisonment for
undefined “ counter - revolutionary
activity” are there to stay. Ideological
party controls of the arts and of
philosophy have been somewhat relaxed
and ci ilised. In the natural sciences
they have now almost disappeared. It is
now also possible to voice private dis-
agreement with th policies of the re;'me
without facing hysical des 4 uction,
thergh genuine public criticism is still
either impossible or extremely dangerous.
The basic social structure of the Soviet
State remains uncharged. It is still a one-
party dictatorship in which all power is
vested with a group of messianic power-
technicians. The methods which were
used by Stalin to achieve his aims have
been rationalised and Europeanised but
the basic social structure remains what
it was in his days. There is still plenty of
terror even without mass deportations.
It was against this background that
the stormy 22nd Congress of the Commu-
nist Party of the Soviet Union took place
last year in Moscow. As usual the most
important event of the congress was
either ignored or neglected by Western
journalists whose gaze was held captive
by Soviet red herrings taking the shape
of black mushroom clouds, and by the
vicissitudes of indignities to wlucn
Stalin’s pickled carcass was being sub-
jected, reminding one of Hitchcock's
farce “The Trouble With Harry ” The
most important event was the announce-
ment of a new method of electing party
officials. What tl ' v- complex pro-
cedure amounts to is that party
functionaries will be replaced a' er
one or two years in office. The old tech-
nique of the Purge will be legalised and
formalised.
The reorganisation was justified by
Khrushchev to the congress in the fol-
lowing terms: (1) It prevents re-emer-
gence of the Cult of the Individual (2) It
provides jobs for the young '3) It frus-
trates the formation of informal juntas
and “family circles” throughom the
apparatus. Yet. a ' this is the snag, cer-
tain party workers, “by virtue of their
recognised authority and high political
organisational and other abilities . . .
may be elected o leading agencies for a
longer consecutive period” (“Pravda”,
November 3.). The implication of this
was stated with engaging frankness by
member of the Presidium and Secretariat
of the Central Committee Frol Kozlov :
“Without a more or less steady group
of leaders, the continuity of leadership
and the transfer of accumulated experi-
ence cannot be insu'ed” (“Pravda”
October 29).
In other words a permanen. clique of
top dictators will ensure “continuity of
leadership” by manipulating in a mas-
sive and permanent manner the “rota-
tion” of cadres. This will ensure that
Soviet society remains an amorphous and
easily manipulated porridge rather than a
body politic with backbone. The organisa-
tional directives of the 22nd Congress
amount to a strengthening of monolithic
and centralised party dictatorship, and
the legalisation of the Permanent Purge
which will be carried out in future, so it
is hoped, without the firing squad.
The open showdown with the Chinese
and Albanians and the drive against the
so called “anti-party group” was part of
the same policy. The Soviet anti-party
group which has been purged by Khru-
shchev appears to be a heterogeneous
collection of individuals whose only link
is that they plotted to unseat Khrushchev
in June 1957, probably for widely diverg-
ent reasons. It would be quite wrong
to view them as a collection of “Stalinist
zealots”. On the senior level they com-
prise Malenkov, Bulganin, Kaganovich
and Molotov, with the senile and
alcoholic Voroshilov included by Khrush-
chev as a kind of grizzly joke and a sop
to the Army. To charge them, as
Khrushchev did repeatedly during the
congress, with complicity in Stalin's
crime, was, of course, rank hypocrisy.
Ali major party officials, including
Khrushchev himself, acted alike. And
Khrushchev was one of Stalin’s most
faithful executioners in the Ukraine. Nor
is there anything specifically Stalinist in
the Chinese combination of aggressive
foreign policy and internal communalisa-
tion. On the contrary the motives for
setting up the Chinese communes in 1958
in the first place were pragmatic.
At that time the Russians had cut tneir
credits to China. To make up for the loss
the Chinese leadership, bent on rapid
industrialisation, felt that the commune
system would activate rural labor in
periods of rural idleness for industrial
projects. It would also maximise party
control in a country with very poor com-
munications by destroying the principal
nucleus of pre-communist social organi-
sation —the Chinese family. The drivel
about the communes being “a higher
form of communism” —so irritating to
Khrushchev —seems to have been thrown
in as an afterthought. The result has
so far been an almost complete fiasco.
The famous home-made pig iron was
found to be unsuitable for steel-produc-
tion, which remains dependent on Soviet


aid and deliveries. And the price was
famine—a man-made famine on a Dan-
tesque scale worse than the Soviet famine
of 1929-33. As a country bent on reckless
foreign adventure, and with food produc-
tion in a state of permanent crisis, China
became a bottomless drain on Soviet
resources.
This, coupled with their new-fangled
assertion of independence in doctrinal
matters presumably conditioned by dif-
ferences in basic social and economic
development, lies at the base of the
present Sino-Soviet split.
Khrushchev’s Big Mistake
"VT'et the main precipitating cause that
brought the clash with the Sino-
Albanian combination to a head last year
was another factor altogether: the new
power situation which has arisen as a
result of the existence of many com-
munist parties within the Soviet orbit,
quite irrespective of any specific policy
differences. The problem facing Moscow
is to adjust their institutions and their
habits developed by Stalin on the “single
citadel” of communism assumption to a
communist world requiring a sort of part-
nership. Communist parties being what
they are, the main problem is to prevent
the almost automatic emergence of Peking
fractions inside the Soviet bailiwick and
vice versa. While Khrushchev, unlike
Stalin, appears to be willing to recognise
an independent Chinese centre, he can-
not possibly tolerate active Chinese op-
position within the USSR itself and in
the satellite empire. And this is precisely
what the Chinese leadership appears to
have done.
Their open support for a rebellious
apparatus in the Soviet colonial back-
yard, and their evident support for the
“anti-party group” in Moscow (e.g., by
laying a wreath at Stalin’s tomb at the
peak of the de-Stalinisation campaign),
were gestures of defiance which Khrush-
chev could not tolerate. It is probable
that the Moscow “Stalinists” and the
Peking dissidents do not find much
ground in common, ideologically, but
they appear to be linked in a common
faction fight against Khrushchev.
All reports from last year’s 22nd Con-
gress of the Communist Party of the
Soviet Union agree that the transactions
were very stormy. It will be remembered
that at the meeting of 81 communist
parties in December, 1960, there was a
split, some parties, including the Austra-
lian, lining up behind Mao, others sup-
porting Khrushchev. This was remedied
at the 22nd Congress with all parties other
than the Albanian and Chinese ones
lining up solidly behind Khrushchev. To
achieve this, some extraordinary moves
appear to have been made. There are
rumors that foreign delegates were shown
correspondence files with the Albanians.
The Chinese countered by canvassing
openly for support among foreign
delegates.
To understand the full implications of
the 22nd Congress it is necessary to
consider certain basic assumptions of the
“Khrushchev line” and contrast them with
Stalin's. Unlike Stalin. Khrushchev pur-
sues a much more active and aggressive
foreign policy. This is not understood by
those observers who are inclined to link,
in a typical Anglo-Saxon moralising
manner, internal terrorism with external
aggressiveness, and who appear to con-
clude that the dictator who relents some-
what internally will behave himself
externally. The fact that Khrushchev has
rationalised the Soviet system and de-
prived it of its most obscene terroristic
features does not preclude the possibility
of increased aggression -mroad. Khrush-
chev has engaged the USSR in remote
places of which Stalin would not even
dream, e.g., in the Congo and in Cuba,
and he is extending free support to
revolutionary movements all over the
world in a manner which Stalin would
never have adopted.
The main difference between Stalin
and Khrushchev is that the latter has
much greater trust in Soviet power and
in the viability of communist parties
abroad. Khrushchev obviously believed
that if given free rein these parties in
league with other revolutionary groups
will engage in successful and indepen-
dent revolutionary action without clashing
with the interests of the USSR. It seems
that this belief has been shattered by the
22nd Congress. A free go for communist
parties did not show up a predetermined
harmony of interests but it led to faction
fights and to breaches of the domestic
monolith. The experiment failed and
Khrushchev returned to a policy of
centralised control, and a showdown with
the Chinese who were supporting his
rivals in the Soviet empire.
Three Theories
Vl7hat are the implications of the Con-
’ ’ gress in relation to peaceful coexis-
tence? This is just another way of asking
how Soviet society will develop internally,
since foreign policy and internal develop-
ment are organically linked in all com-
munist societies. Concerning the pros-
pects of long-term Soviet development,
there are, at present, three schools of
thought among Western analysts. Those
who follow Jsaac Deutscher believe that
the Stalinist nightmare was necessary to
build a strong industrial base and that it
is now over. Moscow will return to the
libertarian ideals of 1917 and establish a
democratic socialist commonwealth. Once
their industrial output outstrips the USA
and catches up with her in the production
of consumer goods, the Soviet model of
industrialisation will have “proved”
itself and will become irresistible to un-
committed and developing nations. Large
parts of the world will be absorbed into
a humanised, progressive and benevolent
Soviet system.
The followers of George Kennan pin
their hopes on the new “middle class” of
industrial managers and professionals
who have attained high social status
and rewards in a thoroughly anti-
egalitarian society, who wish to con-
solidate their gains and who are
thoroughly tired of a chiliastic world-
redeeming policy which imposes on them,
and on the population at large, intoler-
able and from their point of view quite
unnecessary burdens. Once the new
middle class gets their way the USSR
will be a “normal” power with limited
and negotiable objectives.
The third group of experts take their
cue mainly from the great sinologist
August Wittfogel and from Bertram
Wolfe. They do not believe that the
USSR is capable of internal develop-
ment away from totalitarianism. T hey
hold that the modern party State has
developed qualitatively new and en-
tirely foolproof methods of internal con-
trol which make it possible to perpetuate
the totalitarian system indefinitely. Their
image of the Soviet system has been im-
mortalised in George Orwell’s “1984.”
For reasons which should by now be
apparent, the Deutscher thesis can be
dismissed as nonsense and what appear
to remain for serious consideration are
the Kennan and the Wittfogel-Wolfe
positions respectively. The implications
of this alternative on foreign policy are
obvious: If the Soviet Union is destined
to remain for ever in the grip of power-
technicians bent on destroying us in order
to achieve objectives no stable political
deals are really possible with them.
If, on the other hand, the USSR
is capable of evolving into a “normal”
power, genuine peace based on rational
demarcations of economic and strategic
interests will become an attainable
goal.
So far there is no real evidence that
the USSR is moving in the direction
foreshadowed by George Kennan. One
day the Soviet citizen may wake up and
hear on the news that the State has
withered away. Half-an-hour later he will
receive a note through the spontaneous
party-directed post office informing him
that he has just volunteered to work for


five years in a uranium mine, and that
he should va : his dacha forthwith
to Comrade X who is taking his place
as manager of the local machine-tool
plant as from 8 a.m. today.
Yet, it is also evident that Stalin’s
private terror apparatus has been dis-
mantled and it is doubtful if it can be
built up agam. There is no doubt that
Khrushchev intends to continue Stalin's
policy of total control within a social
porridge the new party organisation
presented at the 22nd Congress shows
this quite clearly yet it is doubtful
if he can keep it up without Stalin’s
policy of permanent genocide. And, for
the time being at least, the means to
launch such a policy do not appear to
be at his disposal, though liberal op-
timists are, of course, quite wrong in
believing that control by mass terror
is incompatible with a modern industrial
society: the deeds of a certain German
Chancellor should have disabused us of
this rosy illusion long ago. Also, the
quite extraordinary docility of the in-
dustrialised and agnostic Czechs in con-
trast to the heroic rebelliousness of the
ruritanian and Catholic Magyars and
Poles, seems to indicate that terroris-
tic totalitarian controls may wor very
smoothly indeed in societies on a high
level of social and economic develop-
ment.
To keep the Soviet social porridge from
developing a bone structure, the policy of
systematic, centrally directed demotions
and promotions outlined during the
Congress may not suffice. Informal
cliques and groups within the adminis-
trative apparatus may begin to form
themselves once the acute fear of death
or extreme deprivation is permanently
lifted and the designs of the fanatical
leadership may become bogged down
and frustrated in a morass of healthy
popular common sense. The deportations,
the bullets and the camps may have
to be invoked again, yet who will
wield them and how? Khrushchev has
already been very hard on the managers
the great white hope of George Ken-
nan and the death penalty for econ-
omic crimes puts virtually every factory
boss within the range of the firing
squad. Recent frame-ups and shootings
of Jewish leaders in Leningrad and Mos-
cow on trumped-up charges of currency
offences and “Zionist conspiracy” are a
sharp reminder of what Khrushchev is
still capable of in a day’s work. Vei how
will he deal with defeated party factions?
If he does not destroy them physically,
and if the totalitarian dictatorship gradu-
ally transforms itself into a sort of lazy
super-Balkan oligarchy, what will happen
to Soviet initiative within the communist
bloc and how will it affect foreign policy?
More Crises to Come
Tn summing up, it can be stated with
some confidence that the 22nd Con-
gress has shown two things: First, it has
shown that Khrushchev is not the great
liberaliser. He is in fact the protagonist
of centralised and monolithic party
control. The question to be asked is,
will he pull it off without Stalinist mass
terror and what will happen if Stalinist
mass terror becomes necessary but im-
possible for him to initiate? It does
appear probable that party control
without mass terror is in the long run
impossible. On this score the Chinese
and the die-hard Stalinists are probably
right. It can, therefore, be concluded
that the Communist Party of the Soviet
Union has entered a stage of contra-
dictions and crises.
Second, Khrushchev’s hope that one
can give foreign communists more . ope
and rely on a sort of predestined har-
mony between general communist and
Soviet interests has proved a fiasco. The
22nd Congress brought to a climax one
of the most bitter faction fights in
communist history. Will Khrushchev
attempt to restore unity by trying the dis-
credited methods of the dead old lion
once again? And if he cannot restore
unity a la Stalin what will happen to
the Sino-Soviet bloc?
All this is pretty inconclusive the
22nd Congress was held on the cross-
roads as it were yet certain lessons
can nevertheless be drawn in relation
to Western foreign policy. One is that
so far not a shred of evidence has been
produced which would indicate that the
differences between Moscow and Peking
in relation to the West are more than
merely tactical. The comrades in Mos-
cow and Peking seem to be at odds on
how and when to cut our throats and
how to distribute and to organise the
spoils. Neither Moscow nor Peking have
given signs that they can imagine a future
with our throats uncut.
There are only two problems for us:
how to exploit \'r" splits inside the Sino-
Soviet orbit so as to weaken them
further, and how- to encourage the
development of “conservative” fore in
the USSR and in the satellite empire,
so as to make the continuation n a
party-apparatus State more difficult and
eventually impossible.
We shall, of course, get nowhere by
making territorial or ether concessions
to the pseudo-liberaliser Khrushchev as
is being advocated by Deutscher and
occasionally by the British Government.
(The use of a voluble superannuated
Polish Trotskyist respectably ensconced
at Oxford University as adviser on Soviet
affairs by a Tory administration is one
of the rare comic reliefs in the grim pro-
cess of the Cold War.) The forces pressing
for the abolition of the party State inside
the USSR gain strength and arguments
if the West does not budge. The hand of
the party functionaries is strengthened
by Western weakness, which confirms
them in their belief that we suffer from
incurable contradictions and can be over-
thrown. If we demonstrate that ve are
invincible we shall have condemned the
fanatics to permanent futility .id we
shall have placed truth firmly on the side
of the reformers by showing that hence-
forth any ideas of burying us are just
dreams.
We should, of course, do nothing to
ease tension between China and the
USSR. If we make concessions o China
in any form, we prive the anti-Maoist
forces of their main argument, namely,
that Chinese methods lead nowhere. If,
on the contrary, we do not make con-
cessions to Peking we increase Chinese
dependence on the rest of the bloc which
must aggravate inter-bloc ill-will and ten-
sion, by increasing Peking's pressure on
Moscow to adopt policies which Moscow
cannot, for internal reasons, adopt.
There is at present only one rational
attitude for us to take if we want to sur-
vive in freedom: to behave and to plan
as if Wolfe and Wittfogel were right and
to hope that Kennan will prove them
wrong in the end. In other words, prepare
for the worst but hope for the best. This
means in practice a policy of firm and
unconditional resistance backed by over-
whelming military power, which does not
shrink from active participr.t' an in
guerrilla operations and from tough
political and police : ures against the
agents of Moscow and Peking in our
midst.
Coupled w ; "'- this we ight to have a
policy of strategically directed measures
to develop the neutralist countries of
Asia and Africa economically and to
bring them to our side. This wc :ld pre-
suppose much closer ties between trade,
economic development and foreign policy
than those which obtain at present.
For Australia this would imply the
rapid setting up of adequate defence
forces and strong support for those
American policies which entail an uncom-
promising stand against Red China. In
all this one must hope that once the
futility of planning our conquest becomes
unmistakably clear the forces of reform
in the USSR will gain eventual
ascendancy. Their main hope, whether
they admit it or not. is that the Wes* will
not cave in. We must not disappoint them
by committing suicide.


LETTERS
A REPLY TO SENATOR SPOONER
Sir,
Senator Spooner has at last made a
reply to my criticism of Snowy irriga-
tion (Bulletin, March 17), written two
years ago. Only when it received the wide
publicity of The Bulletin’s circulation
did he bother to reply. Even now he still
evades answering the main point of my
criticism, which was: we must first have
a clear estimate of what the Snowy water
will best produce (say, wool and meat)
and then compare the cost of getting this
extra production from Snowy water with
the cost of getting it by alternative means,
such as by land clearing or pasture
improvement elsewhere in Australia.
Surely studying the comparative costs
of various development projects is the
essence of what a Minister for National
Development should be doing, especially
after eleven years in that important office.
However, he has recently made a start
by undertaking a “benefit-cost study'" of
Snowy irrigation, an elementary piece of
estimating to see whether the benefits of
a project outweigh its costs. He still has
to take the second and vital step of
making similar studies of other ways of
getting the same output and comparing
one with another.
This comparative cost survey should
be done both to examine operating costs
and returns, and the total capital costs
of the alternative projects, for we haven't
got unlimited capita! available for all the
many development projects crying out to
be done in Australia. This is especially so
when all Commonwealth works projects
and about half of State works are bemg
financed compulsorily from taxation, not
by loans.
If Australia spends £500 million on
Snowy electricity and irrigation when the
same amount of electricity could be got
from coal, and the same meat and wool
from non-irrigated land development for
a total capital outlay of some £200
million, then we have £300 million less
available to spend on roads, congested
city traffic, sewerage, housing or hospitals.
We might decide that the dearer project
is only justified if its advantage in net
operating returns is very much greater
han alternatives.
Hydroelectric power is tw'o to two-and-
-i-half times dearer in capital outlay than
modern coal-burning power stations,
except in particularly favored hydro
locations like Manapouri in New Zealand
or Kittimat in Canada where hydro-
electricity is cheap enough to smelt
aluminium. The Snowy is not particu-
larly favored, with its immense lengths
of tunnelling required, huge dams that
will take ten years to fill, and long power
transmission lines. There will not be
enough water to run the turbines more
than 25 p.c. of the time, hence it will be
used to supply peak power, whereas most
hydro schemes operate continuously to
offset their high capital cost. (The interest
bill on Snowy hydro will be some £60,000
a day irrespective of how few hours it
works.)
It is good to have Senator Spooner’s
assurance that peak power from the
Snow'y will be produced (does he mean
delivered?) at a “favorable” price com-
pared with coal stations producing peak
power. But how much cheaper? Is it
enough to justify the spending of some
£250 million extra to get this power?
These are things he should have been tell-
ing us all along, as Minister for Develop-
ment in charge of Australia’s largest pro-
ject, not waiting for a “consistent critic”
to pry it out of him over the years. And
why not release the Ebasco Report?
On the irrigation side, why didn’t he
have a new and thorough economic sur-
vey of this made in his early years as
Minister, for in three years after his
Government took office farmers' costs
rose 50 p.c. and their selling prices
declined. As an auditor by profession he
certainly would have insisted on this in
reporting on any company whose pros-
pects had changed so adversely.
The 1950 final report of Common-
wealth and State officers he refers to con-
tains in 66 pages only one sentence even
mentioning the economic outlook for
irrigation products.
His 2400 farms will each cost some
£50,000 for the irrigation facilities pro-
vided. on my estimate (what is his?)
plus £lO,OOO at least for land, buildings,
fencing and implements. He says they
will produce mainly fat lambs, beef and
wool with some dairying and fruit grow-
ing. How much of each?
Where are the markets for more fat
lambs, dairy produce and fruit? Will
he make the comparative cost survey of
getting the beef and wool from alter-
native areas in Australia and let us know
the results?
THE B.B.C. OBJECTS
Sir,
Robert Raymond reviewing Robin
Day’s book on Television (Bulletin,
March 24) has been sadly misinformed
and not, as I remember it, by Day's book,
if he thinks B.B.C. programmes hke
“Panorama”, “Tonight", “Monitor", and
“Face to Face” owe anything to the
inspiration of Independent Television
News, which is the underprivileged child
of commercial television in Britain. I
would be the first to agree that in the
new's field I.T.N. does a good job. It would
do a better one, and provide more com-
petition for the B.B.C. news, if the rich
programme companies gave it more
money.
But my friend, and its able editor,
Geoffrey Cox from New Zealand, would
be as surprised as I was to read that he
and his predecessors had “invigorated
our thought” not only in the handling
of current affairs, but in the treatment
of the arts as well. Really, Mr Raymond,
one might as w'ell suggest that
“Panorama” is the offspring of “Four
Corners.” The fact is that a numcer of
spasmodic attempts have been made by
the commercial companies to imitate,
directly and unashamedly, the pro-
grammes listed by Mr Raymond.


m
V : 1
& 'ZS r
Ma
ms*
“You’ll get a
P.A. for 8 and 10 years
REID MU!
REG. FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
9 9 9
44
and you’ll
save 10% on
purchases at any
Reid Murray Store
All told there are 174 Retail Stores in
the Reid Murray Group throughout
Australia, where you can save 10%.
And your investment which can be
surprisingly modest can return you
up to 9% p.a. and will be guaranteed
by Reid Murray Holdings Limited.
Applications accepted only on forms at-
tached to the Prospectus. Available from:
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. G 71924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melb.
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William Street, Adelaide
Members of Stock Exch. of Adelaide Ltd.
PAID UP CAPITAL £7,000,000
RM A. lON AT
GUARANTEED BY REID MURRAY HOLDINGS LTD.
Malcolm Muggeridge, wreathed in
cigarette smoke, was put up as a rival to
John Freeman. Kenneth Tynan and
Lord Harewood were invited to emulate
on Sunday afternoons, in “Tempo”,
Wheldon’s Sunday evening “Monitor.”
Another Sunday afternoon pro-
gramme was begun with a great
flourish and the uncomfortable title of
“The Time, The Place and The Camera”,
last autumn. Its panoramic sweep was
destined to outdo any similar 8.8. C. pro-
gramme. When I left England at the
beginning of this month, it was being
“rested”. Forays to compete with the
maverick and perennial success of
“Tonight” have been almost ludicrously
unsuccessful.
May 1 please, however, before I leave
Australia, say how good a programme I
think “Four Corners” is, and how 1 hope
we shall in the fulness of time become
as aware, on our screens in Britain, of
the image of Charlton and the direction
of Raymond, as A.B.C. viewers are of the
personalities of “Panorama.” I never did
like one-way streets. And one day, per-
haps, A.B.C. will launch its equivalent of
“Monitor”. The flourishing state of the
arts in the Commonwealth—I wonder
incidentally how many London papers
would have given so much prominence to
an event like the Dobell sale—suggests
that the time is ripe and the material to
hand.
Kenneth Adam
Director of B.B.C.
Television
Sydney
LIVING WITH ABORIGINES
Sir,
Colin Simpson’s Twenty Questions on
the assimilation of aborigines (Bulletin,
March 3) certainly provides food for
thought.
From a mere housewife's point of
view, a little more neighborliness on the
part of the general public would go a
long way towards helping whatever
policy our Government should pursue
in relation to the aborigines and part-
aborigines. After all, we are happy with
their 2,974,581 square miles, surely it is
not too much to ask, that we are a little
helpful.
Without being a trained investigator,
some of the reasons for resistance-
behavior are quite easy to see. Children
in their tender years, attending school,
shockingly dressed and with a very sub-
standard cleanliness and grooming, are
teased, laughed at and otherwise ignored
by our white children. What chance
have these children, who can expect no
help in the matter from home, of grow-
ing up in any other way than with anti-
white and anti-social attitudes? Alterna-
tively, what chance has the white child,
trained rigorously in habits of cleanli-
ness, of regarding the aboriginal children
with anything but antipathy. The
aborigines soon learn to retaliate to the
teasing by hitting and kicking and being
generally (and understandably) unpleas-
ant.
We have aboriginal and part-aboriginal


children in o..r Meningie school wh-
are as clean and tidy as the next person,
but 1 feel they suffer to some extent
along with their blood brothers. Speaking
for my own children, who have never
been taught racial discrimination, I
would say that they accept and enjoy
the company of the aboriginal children
with good hygiene on the same grounds
as they do other white children.
In Meningie we have a committee of
women running an Opportunity Shop,
selling second-hand clothing cheaply to
the aboriginal families. This has enabled
many of the children to attend school
similarly attired to other more fortunate
children. We are well aware that many
of these aboriginal families receive
money equal to that of white families ;
but where the parents lack the wisdom
and incentive to apportion the money
carefully, the money is more or less use-
less. Our Opportunity Shop funds are
used to help in cases of need and emer-
gency—two contingencies for which pre-
paration is very seldom made, or able to
be made.
R. Downing
Meningie (SA)
THE DELINQUENTS
Sir,
It is perhaps unfortunate that your
critics have received such a battering of
late, but I’m sure you will agree that the
free exchange of opposing views on such
things as books, plays, music, and paint-
ings is a step towards the cultural develop-
ment you have been quietly—hesi-
tantly?—plugging over the last year. I
trust you will allow me space to register
my reactions to Mr Evan Jones’s review
of “The Delinquents” by Criena Rohan
(Bulletin, March 17).
It was no doubt complimentary of you
to give the book to Mr Jones for review
as he is what l suppose you would think
of as something of a literary expert.
And while he obviously judges Miss
Rohan's work by very high standards,
the tone of his pronouncements rankles.
A Hal Porter has a right to a slight tilt
of superiority, yet even he is not as
brashly arrogant as Mr Jones.
Although he seems to take great delight
in pointing out, quite erroneously I might
add, that Miss Rohan “ . .. moves out
of her depth, especially in dialogue .. .”
I think he will be interested to learn that
Miss Rohan is no semi-articulate “primi-
tive” but in fact went through the same
university as he did himself and was a
respected contemporary of a number of
his personal gods. Her later life provided
the material for her book, and I am
assured of its authenticity. Surely she
cannot be blamed for knowing more of
her subject than Mr Jones’s expectancy
of cliches leads us to believe he does,
and for bringing off more varied effects
than he expects. And it is indeed interes-
ting to contrast his somewhat self-
conscious earnestness (pomposity?) with
the somewhat more urbane English
reviewers.
' ne critic for “Lime & Tide” wrote
this book may widen us a little. The
people are Australian, the situation,
universal. The author knows her (his?)
world, and describes it convincingly.. .”
Surely this implies Miss Rohan has a
much stronger grasp of her craft than the
average lady writer.
But the “daddy of them all”, so to
speak, was Kenneth Alsop’s three-quarter
page review in the “Daily Mail.” I feel
the following extracts sum up his feelings
for the book. “She reveals not only a
rare freshness of eye and warmth of
heart, but an even rarer understanding
of young proles desperately trying to
inject a meaningless and drab existence
with excitement and purpose. In fact,
Miss Rohan is a trifle sentimental about
her teenage drifters, but not falsifyingly
so.”
I think it is also significant that
although the usual life expectancy of a
first novel is 1500 copies, “The Delin-
quents” has in six weeks run into four
editions of something approaching, in all,
10,000 copies. Not bad for a book
which displays “crudity of writing,
occasional pretentiousness” and “is in
fact quite novelettish” in parts.
Hesiod Anthrianos
University of Melbourne
NEW GUINEA—THE RIGHT
TO RIOT?
Sir,
May I make a brief comment on your
editorial, “New Guinea —The Right to
Riot?” (Bulletin, March 17).
The trade union legislation may be
“savagely attacked by the UN mission”
as you predict, or it may not; and many
may “cavil at the protective clauses” or
they may not.
It does not matter much while Aus-
tralian trade union leaders are indifferent
to workers’ causes in New Guinea.
In the present circumstances it will be
the New Guinea workers themselves,
70,000 of them, who will determine their
country’s course. It is to their ideas
about trade unions, about wages and con-
ditions, about riots and strikes, that the
Government is now responding so
belatedly and so characteristically.
And it will be to the workers’ ideas
about trade unions organised and con-
trolled by officials of the Labor Depart-
ment that the Government will respond in
the future.
For those Australians who recall the
protective legislation used last century to
control and defeat our own unions, the
situation in New Guinea is a tragedy (in
the proper Greek sense of that word).
In parenthesis might I add that, for
your correspondent in the Buka riots to
explain cargo-cult in terms of child-like
beliefs, is to deny the many able adminis-
trators and anthropologists around the
world who hold that such millennium
movements are, essentially, attempts by
groups of people to re-establish a lost
self-respect.
Gus O'Donnell
Woollahra (NSW)
THE DLP CRIES WOLF
Sir,
Your editorial “The DLP Cries Wolf”
vBulletin, March 3) might be “Plain
English”; however, it is not plain fact.
Firstly, Mr J. McDowell publicly thanked
(through the local newspaper) the
president and the secretary of the Bunda-
berg branch of the ALP for their
invaluable assistance in his campaign.
If the State and the Federal executives
of the ALP did not openly support Mr
McDowell at least they gave him their
blessing. Political interference in union
affairs is open to question and it should
not be decided by outside pressure but
by the ALP Federal convention and only
after due consideration. Secondly, your
statement that the communist issue is of
central importance in Queensland State
politics is quite wrong. The split in the
Labor party in Queensland was due to a
disagreement in the opportune time for
the introduction of three weeks’ annual
leave and not to any communist influence
in the ALP. It was the late Mr J.
Bukowski (then secretary of the AWU
and president of the QCE of the ALP)
who led the move for the immediate
introduction of the necessary legislation.
Just prior to the 1961 Federal elections
the QLP joined forces with the DLP and
so tried to cloud the issue. However,
this move, which did not have the full
support of the members of the QLP,
resulted in splitting that party —many
prominent members resigned and others
did not actively support the QLP during
the campaign. Even to infer that com-
munism has a part in State politics with
regard to the Queensland branch of the
ALP would be insidious propaganda.
E. D. Jensen
Bundaberg (Queensland)
AMERICAN FASCISM?
Sir,
May I say that on reading Murray
Kempton’s article in “Forum” (Bulletin,
March 10) I was almost moved to
initialing a “Save the Communists Fund”
to protect all those poor persecuted
American communists. With his impec-
cable logic and faultless analytical power
Mr Kempton has succeeded in separating
the communist’s personality from his
cause. For centuries we have held it as
axiomatic that the person is submerged in,
and subordinated to, any burning cause —-
yet here at last is a writer who in brilliant
lucid prose explains that we can be
bitterly opposed to communism but yet
allow communists to live unmolested.
Mr Kempton has shown that democracy
is completely unjustified in controlling
any persons advocating its violent over-
throw. Let us rejoice, here at last is
someone who shows that communists
are communists only when politicians—
at other times they are law-abiding
citizens. Is it not extremely unfortunate
then that some people were not
impressed?
W. P. M. Zeeman
Sandy Bay (Tasmania)


Feiffer
Mou KJOOW M
m IT (6 WITH
PAeewrs - them
WAfJT MIR KIPS
T£> 6/?0W OP
EXACTLY IU
THEM, mo MAT-
TER WHAT THE
■ PARENTS CLAIM
THAT'S WHAT
THEM REALTY
WAfJT.
AtOP iCMPW
THE WAH IT 6
tfJITH KID'?-
TH6M ALWAYS
HAVE TO FE
different.
toat.tk) My FAMIIH
IT (PA'S ALMOST TH6
6AMt. 10H6N3 WE
HAP A KIP I
(j\mev HIM TO
6ROU) PP t) Fl'
liftl6 WHAT J
BeLlPl/FP' FPT LOITFI
ONE PIFFFPFIvkSF *
l KIOEW HF
WfIWNT.
1 f I PI6HT
H 6 C? 60 LEFT AW IF 1
[jjcOT 16 FT Ue'P 60
i?I6HT. NO KA6OO.
THAT‘6 W TH6 IM
KIPS ARE.
$0 FROM Hfc vm
CHILDHOOD
I RREACHEt? T<? H/M
EXACTLY THE OPPOSITE I
OF EVERYTH(fJ6 I P
MueveP- MT \
uJ/\lTlfJ6 fOZ THE
time HE'^Reeau-
aiop finauy tte vv[ maio.
(H HAP AftSUMeDTS/
HIM ATTACtfK)6 FITO*
THIPJ6 He TTOHTI
eeeiei/ep amp Me
T£ FIX him
FIR MW IK) Hl£
comcrioM pr
verewm tom
i DIDN'T.
IM£MT AT IT R3R Y£A<& -
AMP TH6k)' U) H6M l
COK)FIP6fOT THAT H 6 WT
ueep M 6 AS AM lieeiTAOT
AfOMHORH -I iHT HIM T
WIM. 1 £OMC£PSP HIS \
tym ?o\ |oT 1 W
HIM THAT He HAP COK^
viucep Me That he .»■
hap eeeM amp
Tne OTP MAN)
AH OF TH65e
He tort
ABMJP AM'WPE-
we I’M
A FATH6AO. \


GOVERNOR GIPPS —Father of Inflation
Continuing our series on early Australian Governors
By M. H. ELLIS
Great strides were made in the
progress of Australia during the
five years after Governor Sir
Richard Bourke sailed from New
South Wales on his way to Ireland via
Buenos Aires and the Andes. But they
were masked by drought and dissension.
Queen Victoria had been on the throne
less than five months. The starry-eyed
pilgrims of South Australia had landed,
the free population of mainland Aus-
tralia was climbing towards 50,000 when
Governor Sir George Gipps, with the
feel of an ennobling sword still on his
shoulder, arrived to take over the admin-
istration of the colony.
He was a different sort of Governor to
the previous ones. He was the first
engineer to govern the colony. He was
also the first son of the Church and the
first “man of Kent” —and the last until
the arrival of Lord De L’lsle —to govern
the Australian continent. He had been
born at Ringwold, went to The King’s
School at Canterbury, which in a sense
was the ancestral forerunner of The
King’s School, Parramatta, and to the
Military Academy at Woolwich.
In military rank he was the junior
of all Australian Governors up to that
time —a major in the Royal Engineers,
though Royal Engineer majors were
very much bigger fish than ever came out
of the Medway. He was not, in fact, a
military man at all in the ordinary sense
of the word, though he had seen a good
deal of service in his earlier days.
He was the first Australian Governor
to be born within the period of Austra-
lian history, having come into the world
in 1791, and having entered the Army
just about the time the news of the
rebellion against Bligh was a topic of
conversation in London.
Promoted to be a first lieutenant of the
Royal Engineers in December, 1809. he
went to the Peninsula in 1811, was at the
Siege of Badajoz, was mentioned in
despatches for his gallantry after he had
been wounded in leading an assault
column against Fort Picurina; but most
of his three years’ service in Spain was in
the relative backwater of Catalonia with
the army of Sir John Murray, where,
however, there was plenty of fun and
liveliness. He was in the fights for the
pass at Biar, Castaila, Fort Balaguir—he
got another mention in despatches there—
the Taragona Siege, the blockade of
Barcelona. Then, off he went for another
three years with Wellington’s forces in
Flanders, where he missed a good chance
of being immolated at Waterloo through
the fact that he was absent from the
main army engaged in putting the forts
at Ostend in a state of defence.
He was still a captain when he left the
Army of Occupation in 1817 to wander
round Europe, before being sent off to
the West Indies.
There, to all intents and purposes, he
became a civilian, showed a flair for
methodical administration, a capacity for
investigation, no less than for hard work,
plus a toughness and resilience to heat and
humidity rare among even old soldiers.
He interested himself in slavery and his
reports on the subject and his essays on
the techniques and problems of emanci-
pation are classic papers and compulsory
reading for students who wish to be
experts in the history of the subject.
It was a curious quirk of fate that got
him two commissions concerned with the
reorganisation of the boundaries of
Parliamentary constituencies in both
England and Ireland after the passage of
the Reform Act in 1832. In 1834 he
became private secretary to George Eden,
later a famous (and in some ways disas-
trous) Governor-General of India, then
First Lord of the Admiralty. He had now
become predominantly a civil, rather
than a military, servant with a reputation
far beyond his standing ; one of the use-
ful cogs in the “establishment,” with a
job always waiting for him.
The Banks Cave In
■\T7hen Eden went to India in 1835,
Peel became Prime Minister of a
ministry with turbulence galore on its
hands in Canada. He hastily sent Lord
Gosford, a noted believer in conciliation
in Ireland, who presently was to give his
name to an Australian town, thither as
Governor-General and as head of a
Royal Commission of three, to investi-
gate the grievances of the colonists.
The other two members were Sir
Charles Grey, who had been Chief
Justice of Bengal, and Gipps. The Home
Government was facing very much the
same problems that soon were assailing
it in Australia, based on demands for
unconditional control of the revenue,
restrictions on the authority of the Execu-
tive, reform of the land laws and restric-
tion of Crown patronage. It cannot be
said that the Commission achieved any-
thing remarkable, but its work added to
Gipps’s reputation and he was sent to
New South Wales as Governor to ride
the storm which was blowing up furiously
in the Antipodes in the jubilee year of
the colony
Had he known what lay in store for him
he probably would have stayed at home
and lived longer. His nearly nine years
of gov:rnment was the longest next to
that of Macquarie up to modern times
and there was scarcely a moment of it
that did not involve strain and contest.
The strain was the harder because of his
autocratic temperament and because of
the vast territorial expansion of settle-
ment and exploration which made it less
easy every year to keep his subjects
within reach of his arm. Almost every
major issue under the sun was being
agitated from the beginning—responsible
Government, land settlement policy,
separation of distant settlements. New
Zealand colonisation, local self-govern-
ment and municipal organisation, the
bitterly vexed question of aboriginal
policy.
In many ways this was a ruder, rougher
age than that of the period when all
civilised Australia lay under a vice-regal
fist within fifty miles of Sydney.
Yet it was an age of great development
with all the natural ferment of booms
followed by bursts. Immigrants flowed
in in thousands to meet the competition
of the old lags, so that the stage nad
been reached when either convict impor-
tation must end or the immigrants
starve.
Employers of cheap convict and
ex-convict labor and the hungry immi-
grant labor tore at each other’s throats
as the convict age lay dying.
With the increasing immigrant influx
and the rise in importance of Australian
wool, British capital flowed in galore.
Families like the Gladstones and the
Blacks sent their money here. Banks,
loan companies, trust companies, finance
companies grew up like mushrooms.
Many were just about as enduring.
Gipps’s policy of placing high deposits of
money in the banks, thus providing
abundant high-interest lending money,
led to a period of speculation with all
its natural concomitants —private ex-
travagance, wildly rash investments, pur-
chases of stock and land far beyond the
means of those who made them, mad


lending, madder borrowing, palatial
buildings.
Finally came the reckoning, the cave-in
of one of the two great banks, with a
crash that shook the colony from end to
end and the “Hungry Forties” of
drought and bushfire, remembered for
three generations as that of the lowest
depth of misery in Australian history.
All this, of course, was not due to
Gipps. He came to a colony in which the
rush had started and he had no more
chance of stopping it than he would have
had of stopping a well-nourished fire on
the black soil plains. But in finance he
went in the wrong direction.
A Deadly Struggle
All through Gipps’s governorship,
tribulation followed swift develop-
ment, development towards a self-
supporting Australia followed on disaster.
The final deadly struggle to establish
the beginnings of representative gov-
ernment and to put Crown Land legis-
J ation and the jury system on a per-
manent instead of on a periodic basis
ran with a new battle for the freedom of
the Press. The immigration rate rose
from seven thousand to ten thousand a
year and then to nearly 12,000 in the
year that Henry Parkes arrived and
starved.
All the ferment and the flurry, the
lawlessness of the outlands which brought
the Commissioner and Border Police
system into existence, all the wrestling
with pastoralists, all the building, some
of it both private and public so solid
and creditable that it stands out today,
form too complicated a picture to be
dealt with in an orderly way in a short
article.
It is remarkable that so much progress
was made during a reign in which imports
soared in value with increasing immigra-
tion, exports declined catastrophically
in value through falls in world prices and
drought attrition among stock, and
interest, through Government financial
policy, had been driven skyward to a
point at which it had to be paid very
often out of capital.
Drought reigned for five solid years
and wool prices fell by 50 per cent, and
many of the new-fledged companies
which had sprung up to develop pastoral
holdings, steam transport by sea, pro-
vision of facilities such as gaslight showed
dangerous losses. Most weathered the
storm somehow.
The disturbance due to the cessation
of transportation in 1840 coming in the
third year of Gipps’s period resulted
immediately in a vast increase in the cost
of labor and production. Apart from
the struggle which was produced in the
labor market to keep wages down, the
legislative attempt to tie free workers to
their employers rendered the freedom of
the servant, laborer or general worker
little more real than that of the convict
assignee hitherto had been. This brought
new conflicts.
Gipps has strong claims to be called
the main architect of the first constitu-
tion which brought an elective Legis-
lative Council 24 elected and 12
Government nominated councillors —
into existence. But he had little thanks
in the contentious fury of the contest for
the separation of outland settlements
such as Port Phillip and Moreton Bay,
which the new constitution foreshadowed,
and the unending pressures from all
quarters for representative govern-
ment and a stable and permanent jury
system.
The new chamber, when it met under
the speakership of Sir Alexander
Macleay, who had come out as Colonial
Secretary in 1826, merely provided a ring
in which members could carry on the
rowdy battle of the giants for further
freedoms —for separation, for class or
regional control of the colony and
generally against Crown prerogatives.
In the whole colony there were only
8477 electors, of whom half were in
Sydney and the County of Cumberland
and 600 in Port Phillip south of the
Murray. But they made as much noise
as millions.
The conflicts in and out of the legis-
lative chamber reached the point at
which it was pull-devil-pull-baker, with
all sorts of people joining in to tug
sideways. In the end the Council pro-
posed to repudiate the responsibility for
raising revenue for such purposes as
maintenance of transported convicts in
the jails.
To all pressures the Home Govern-
ment in particular turned a stony face,
and the only concession the Council and
the agitators secured was the giving of
their commissions to the Judges during
good behavior instead of merely during
the pleasure of the Crown.
For all obstinacies, whether his own or
the British Government’s, Gipps was
held accountable and he ended his reign
in a blaze of contention with the Legis-
lative Council over security of tenure on
leases of Crown lands and the Council’s
request that management of such Crown
lands should be vested in the Governor
and the Council.
First Steps Towards Unionism
r T''HE Gipps era, apart from its historic
A incidents in exploration and such
notorious conflicts as that which ensued
when William Charles Wentworth and
others sought to buy most of New Zealand
from the Maoris for a couple of hundred
pounds, is most notable as an object
lesson in what can happen when an
autocratic Government raises lavish sums
of money and pours them out into the
spending stream, thus creating extrava-
gance, boom and investment which over-
develop the big towns and their comforts
and attractions, eventually producing
chaos against a background of falling
production and export prices and returns.
It was during Gipps’s period when the
Masters and Servants Act was being
passed and unemployment was rife that
the first unemployment benefits were
paid, the first steps to unionism taken
and the ancestor movement of the Labor
party formed on September 5, 1843, in
the guise of an “Australian Mutual Pro-
tection Association,” of which the objec-
tive was “to endeavor to obtain the
amelioration of the condition of the
working classes” and to “secure the
return of fit and proper persons to repre-
sent them in the Sydney and Legislative
Councils.”
When John Dunmore Lang presented
a petition on the unemployed question
to the Council late in September, 1843, in
the midst of the depression caused by
the current financial chaos, there were
as many unemployed and dependants of
them in Sydney as there were electors,
very largely people who had been
brought to the metropolis by the bright
lights. Thus the first measures and the
first votes of money to provide a dole,
tiny though they were, were made.
Sir George Gipps was an earnest,
serious man, hospitable and kindly in
private life. As with Macquarie, it may
be said that his job virtually killed him.
He suffered a long voyage to England—
four months, part of it being almost on
starvation rations.
He reached home on November 20,
1846, and was at once inducted into a
job in command of the Royal Engineer
Department at the Tower Hamlets.
The night before he was to leave
Canterbury to take over this command,
three months after his arrival, he had a
sudden heart seizure and died almost
instantly. Yet he was only 56. He, in
fact, expired at a younger age than any
Governor, except Governor King, up to
and long after his time. His name is
remembered in Gippsland. He has
memorials in various street names, and
he has a monument in Canterbury
Cathedral.
His only son, Sir Reginald Gipps,
fought at Alma, became a Lieutenant-
General and died only in 1908, having
lived through every phase of Australian
constitutional government from the days
of the vice-regal autocrats into the days
of Deakin’s rule of the Commonwealth.


The Wild
Cat Pages and
THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
THE COMMON MARKET
AUSTRALIA GETS A HEARING
'T'he really important thing about Mr
A McEwen’s trip to Washington, Lon-
don and the European Common Market
capitals is that he has secured a top-level
hearing for Australia.
It is no use pretending that this in
itself has resolved the difficulties of Aus-
tralian primary exporters threatened by
the loss of Imperial Preferences. But the
Minister for Trade has succeeded in pre-
senting Australia’s position clearly and
forcefully on the highest level and has
won sympathy and understanding.
He has also skilfully exploited the
shifting political trends within the Com-
mon Market organisation itself and
acquired some powerful, if temporary,
allies. Of these France, which is ex-
periencing some wheat marketing prob-
lems similar to our own, is the most im-
portant. The very fact that Mr McEwen
has been able to impress President de
Gaulle with his arguments is a major
achievement which should do more good
than a whole series of technical con-
ferences with British and Common
Market experts. President de Gaulle is
not an easy man to see —even for visiting
foreign Ministers and the fact that Mr
McEwen was able to present his views
at length is in itself significant.
Mr McEwen has picked his time well.
The ceasefire in Algeria will give a big
economic fillip to France and boost her
influence within the Common Market,
particularly in Bonn and Brussels.
It will also raise the immediate problem
of selling independent Algeria’s primary
products, now absorbed directly by
France, throughout the Common Market.
France has spent enormous sums on the
Algerian war and will now finance
Algeria’s economic development and
industrialisation —it expects to get re-
turns. Wheat is a particular problem
shared by France and Australia and
President de Gaulle finds it useful to sup-
port Mr McEwen’s forceful pleas for a
more liberal attitude to outside wheat-
growers with traditional markets in the
UK and Western Europe.
The weight of President de Gaulle’s
1 guarded support was immediately felt
in Bonn, where last week Mr McEwen
conferred with leading West German
officials, including the' powerful Federal
Vice-Chancellor, Dr Ludwig Erhard, and
the head of the Foreign Ministry’s econo-
mics section, Dr R. Lahr. The official
communique issued after the first round
of talks has clearly hinted that a solution
could be found to Australia’s problems
“within the framework of the Treaty of
Rome.” Coming from the West German
Government, which had followed a
rather stiff line during earlier Common
Market ministerial talks,” this is an en-
couraging indication of Bonn’s new flexi-
bility in applying provisions of the Treaty
of Rome to non-members. All the more
so since marketing of foreign foods and
grains in West Germany has provoked
strong opposition from high-cost Bavarian
farmers.
From Bonn, Mr McEwen went to The
Hague for talks with the Dutch Govern-
ment. So far he has received an attentive,
if uncommitted, hearing. Australia’s
sympathetic attitude to Holland’s New
Guinea problems and Mr McEwen’s
successful negotiations in Paris and Bonn
should make his job at The Hague easier.
Tt must be realised that all Mr McEwen’s
efforts and convincing straightforward
talk will probably not be enough to
salvage the Imperial Preference system
if Britain joins the Common Market.
They may, however, result in reasonable
transitional arrangements, giving Aus-
tralia time to adjust her economy to the
historic economic and political changes
now going on in Western Europe.
And this in itself should be sufficient
in the long run. The European Common
Market—whether the United Kingdom
joins it or not—will not mean the end of
the world for Australia. The problems
it raises are difficult and uncomfortable
but, in reality, marginal. It is deplorable
that most of the publicity given in Aus-
tralia to Common Market developments
has had an undertone of hysteria and
ignorance of the basic issues involved.
Australia’s export trade does not depend
on butter, beef, wheat or fruit —it de-
pends on wool. And there is every reason
to hope that our wool sales to the Com-
mon Market area and the United King-
dom will rise and not fall.
Some of our primary export com-
modities may be displaced and some
others will suffer through anticipated loss
of preferential markets. But wool, the
bulk of our export trade, will not be
affected and this is the important thing to
keep in mind. Unfortunately, the whole
problem is often seen in a wrong perspec-
tive, which gives an unwholesome glamor
to the laments of panicmongers. It is time
a more realistic assessment of the situ-
ation is made and our efforts directed at
finding new outlets for the endangered
primary exports which, after all, con-
stitute only a relatively small proportion
of our overall trade turnover.
EUGENE BAJKOWSKI
INDEX
Australia Gets a Hearing .. 34
Stock Exchanges . 35
Polish Machine Tools 35
Philippines and Hong Kong . 36
Morality in Advertising 38
Personal Profile Sir Edga*
Coles . . 40
Ralph W. King and Yuill . . 41
Croesus on Tariff .. . • ‘ 2
The Chairman Says .. .. 44
Speculator’s Diary .. •. 45
Company Reviews:
The Bank of Adelaide .. 46
Mac. Robertson (Australia)
Ltd 46
Allied Mills Ltd .. .. 48
Brolite Industries .. .. 50
Mary Kathleen Uranium .. 51
Company Notes 52
Statistics .. .. 55, 59
Sharemarket Tone .. .. 55
One to Buy 56
Man on the Land:
Lamb. Butter. Tobacco .. 59


V:-. » SS!
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on Bth March, 1950*
(ASSETS EXCEED £10,000,000.)
FUNDS MAY RE
WITHDRAWN
IN A PERSONAL
EMERGENCY
PER ANNUM
4 YEARS
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE
STOCK
INTEREST PERIOD
9% P-A 4 years
QVi% P.A._ 3 years
8% P.A 2 years
INTEREST
PERIOD
9% P.A 3 years
BVa% P.A 2 years
8% P.A 12 months
7% P.A 6 months
Applications for debenture stock and redeemable unsecured deposit
notes accepted only on form of application attached to prospectus,
obtainable from
Principal Offices of the Bank of N.S.W.
in all capital cities
OR
The Company's Offices:
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Floor, Empire House, Corner Wharf and
Queen Streets.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 63 Grenfell Street.
NEWCASTLE: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter Street,
Newcastle West.
OR
Any Member of a Stock Exchange
Underwriting Brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melb.)
CC.130/AB
STOCK EXCHANGES
MINIMUM LISTING REQUIREMENTS
A lter just over 100 years, the Stock
'*-*• Exchanges of Australia have at last
set down on paper the minimum require-
ments for public listing. The old require-
ments were delightfully vague, prescribing
“a sufficient spread of capital,” sufficient
“size” and specifying certain restrictions
regarding voting.
Briefly, under the new requirements
new companies must have a minimum
issued capital of £lOO,OOO and a mini-
mum distribution of 200 shareholders of
the class of security to be listed. In every
case at least 15 p.c. of the issued capital
should be in the hands of the public.
Companies with a capital of over £1
million must have a public holding of at
least 25 p.c. This last clause is aimed di-
rectly at overseas companies thinking of
placing small parcels of shares with the
Australian public. Several huge overseas
companies, including Rio Tinto (with 7
p.c. placed with the public) and John
Lysaghts (just under 20 p.c.), have made
placements with the Australian public
recently. Schweppes just scraped in with
a bare 25 p.c.
These firm proposals can only be for
the good of Australian companies and
investors. The Stock Exchanges are to
be congratulated on this step.
FOREIGN TRADE
POLAND'S MACHINE TOOLS DRIVE
\\7 ith its annual wool purchases now
’ ’ running at about £Bm. a year, Poland
has climbed up to the eighth place among
Australia’s major woolbuyers. But in the
process it has accumulated a whopping
trade deficit as Australian imports of
Polish goods —mainly machine tools and
some sports equipment and tinned foods
—are well under the £lm. a year mark.
Keen to gain a larger share of the Aus-
tralian market to help pay for its steadily
mounting wool sales, Warsaw flew in one
of its top foreign trade experts, machine
tools specialist Mr Z. Rakowicz, man-
aging director of Metalexport—Poland’s
main capital goods exporter —and vice-
chairman of the Polish Chamber of
Foreign Trade.
Stepping briskly off a Qantas jet from
Japan, Mr Rakowicz started off with an
early morning swim in Sydney, then spent
the rest of the time in a round of business
talks, trying to chalk up machine tools
sales in Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide.
A reception at Sydney’s Chevron Hilton
was attended by some 70 current and
prospective customers —importers, repre-
sentatives of engineering firms, spinning
mills, Commonwealth and State depart-
ments. etc.
Before flying back last Monday, Mr
Rakowicz told The Bulletin he expected
that Australia would soon become an
important buyer of Polish machine tools,
which have proved successful in the
United Kingdom, West Germany, Italy
and Japan (where some £300,000 worth
was sold in 1961). Poland could also
supply chemicals, paper, photographic
and sporting equipment, textiles and
some semi-raw materials. He added that
Poland was just beginning to recover
from its war losses in trained professional
men. Automation was on the way.
Mr Rakowicz said that he was “satis-
fied” with the results of his brief trip,
which would “certainly increase our trade
turnover to our mutual benefit.” He was
accompanied by two other Polish experts
Mr J. Jelinski (head of Metalexport’s
machine tools division) and Mr E.
Kupiec (chief of the textile machines
branch.


THE PHILIPPINES AND HONG KONG
FREE TRADE ON TRIAL
FROM OUR CORRESPONDENT IN HONG KONG
Tn spite of many pious speeches and the
A sincere efforts of a small band of
liberal statesmen, the Western world is
still a long way off achieving free trade.
In this set-up the Philippines and Hong
Kong—two relatively small neighbors of
Australia in the North—are providing
examples of welcome exceptions from the
rule.
A few weeks ago, the President of the
Philippines abolished practically all cur-
rency and trade restrictions. Hong Kong,
the island Crown Colony off the China
coast, has never departed from the ideal
of free enterprise and trade.
Manila’s experiment—and at present it
can only be regarded as such —4ias been
made possible through a special US$3OO
m. (£l3O million) stabilisation loan from
America. The immediate result has been
encouraging. External reserves recovered
within eight weeks by nearly 30 p.c.
from an all-time low of USslosm. (£47
million) at the beginning of the year.
The acid test, however, will come if
and when the US loan is exhausted and
the economy will have to stand on its
own feet. With unstable and even falling
prices for basic commodities, the task
confronting the Government and the
Central Bank is not easy. Attempts to
increase the export of manufactured
goods have so far not been encouraging.
Plywood is a good example. The Philip-
pines sends good timber, mainly hard-
wood and mahogany, to Japan, where it
is turned into plywood. The same timber
made into plywood in Manila and ex-
ported to USA meets there the Japanese
product from Philippines trees and can-
not compete in price, in spite of highly
preferential tariff treatment in favor of
the Philippines.
Capital import and the consequent de-
velopment of mineral resources seem to
be the only answer for sound develop-
ment. There is no lack of sympathetic
treatment from the top and a draft law
promising tax incentives is considered as
good as passed through Congress. The
President and the Governor of the Cen-
tral Bank are both strong men with clean
hands, enthusiasm and modern ideas.
They are also no fools and they know
the difficulties ahead.
The highest hurdle to jump is not so
much the natural tendency of the Fili-
pinos “to take it easy,” but the wide-
spread—some cynics call it all-pervading
—cancer of corruption which has become
an accepted part of daily life, no longer
to be considered wrong but smart and
necessary. Large-scale unemployment and
low wages on one side and fantastic pro-
fits by entrepreneurs on the other do not
provide a good climate for clean business
practices.
Nobody is quite sure how many people
make up the workforce ; and the rate of
unemployed, “between 1 and i\ million,”
is nothing more than an inspired guess,
just as is the assumed number of 10 mil-
lion wage and salary earners. No pro-
vision is made for the mass of part-
employed people and no census of the pre-
dominantly rural workers has ever been
attempted. Spread over 7000 islands,
speaking at least six languages and illiter-
ate to a large extent, it would tax the
resources of any modern State, anyhow.
There is now a legal minimum wage
fixed at 4 peso (10s.) a day, but no way
of checking or enforcing this rule —with
the possible exception of central Manila
—in registered offices and factories. It is
true that the cost of living is low, but
comparisons show that even for necessi-
ties a Filipino has to work six to ten times
as long as his Australian mate, always
providing that he is willing or able to
work as hard.
A strong Chinese element in trade and
commerce is not an unmitigated blessing
either. Whereas the majority of the
Chinese live up to their high reputation
of scrupulous dealings, a sizeable minority
came to the Philippines only for “a fast
buck.” There is some danger that a
growing Filipino nationalism could drive
out some of the better elements.
The chances for foreign capitalists, in
spite of all this, are not bad. However,
the prospects must be considered as a
long-term investment —as far as the term
goes in Far Eastern countries.
HONG KONG CHANGES
Tn Hong Kong the situation is radically
different. “Long term” in the Crown
Colony refers to five years ; seven years
is a very long term, indeed. Until a year
or so ago, invested capital was returned
within two or three years, but now the
boom is over and conditions have
changed.
A big Chinese businessman considering
the erection of a 75 million Hong Kong
dollars (£6 million) hotel said that it
would take seven years to amortise his
investment.
Another “long-term” development is
the tendency of old trading firms like
Jardine, Gilman and others, whose names
are nearly household words, to diversify
into manufacturing. And on a less com-
mercial field, a long-term view is taken
by the different campaigns conducted at
present by the administration with good
support from the population.
Unemployment in Hong Kong is said
to be H p.c. of the workforce. This claim
can only be understood in the framework
of Far Eastern conditions. With a popu-
lation round the three million mark, the
workforce varies officially between
240,000 and 270,000 wage and salary
earners. This information stems from the
registration of factories and offices which
employ five or more persons.
There is no doubt that these figures
are honest, but they do not and cannot
take in the thousands of enterprises with
fewer than the specified number of em-
ployees, far fewer than those who work
“at home” (which means in the streets) or
as sub-contractors. There is no minimum
wage in Hong Kong and not as many
social benefits as in the Philippines, but
few men receive less than four Hong
Kong dollars (6s. 4d.) a day for unskilled
work. If it would not be for rent, this
amount could give a Chinese workman
a reasonable living by his standards. But
now wooden huts well on the fringe of
Kowloon are fetching 30 to 50 Hong
Kong dollars (£2 15s. to £4) a month,
which would take a third or half of such
a monthly earning.
No wonder, then, that even in main
streets in Hong Kong men can be seen
sleeping on some sort of mattress piled
up against walls of buildings. If this
mattress is underlaid by a sufficiently
large reed mat, with two strings fastened
to nails in the woodwork of the building
in such a way that they roll up the free
part of the mat to form a very primitive
lean-to tent, a great degree of luxury is
achieved. By contrast, people on the
minimum wage in Manila take a piece
of land —any piece—and build their own
hut from local material without cost.
These “housing” conditions illustrate
cruelly the main difference in one respect
between the Philippines, where land is
plentiful, and Hong Kong, where it is
nearly a commodity reserved for million-
aires.
It would be unfair not to mention here
that the Hong Kong Government is doing
an outstanding job of trying to solve the
housing problem. But a birthrate of 35
per 1000 of population (22 in NSW), and
a steady stream of arrivals from the
mainland do not bring a solution in
sight.
■COR visiting Australians, next to shop-
ping, nothing is more exciting than taxi
rides. The daring and skill of the drivers
is bordering on the miraculous and the
cost is as much a delight. Flagfall is one
Hong Kong dollar (Is. 7d.) and this
pays for a very long ride. Taxis, inci-
dentally, come from all the corners of
the globe, in all colors and vintages.
The field is, however, dominated by
Mercedes-Benz and Hillman with a fair
sprinkling of Holdens. These Holdens
are delivered with white-walled tyres,
left-hand drive and must have a radio


MOBIL CENTRE, MELBOURNE
<c
XJSSS
HEAD OFFICE FOR AUSTRALIA
ESTABLISHED IN AUSTRALIA IN 1895
!lf PTY
changes its name to
MOBIL OIL AUSTRALIA
PTY. LTD.
Mobil
The MOBIL name better identifies our Company
with its products MOBILGAS, MOBILOIL and all the
other fuels and lubricants marketed under the MOBIL
brand and backed by world-wide MOBIL research.
E. ANGUS JONES
MANAGING DIRECTOR


If you have
money..
earning less
than 4 1 p.a.
It’s time to
consider a
‘Short Term’
Deposit
at the ‘Rural’
Make sure that your money grows
on Interest Bearing Deposit at the
Rural Bank.
4% p.a. from 3 to 11 months,
4J% p.a. for 12 months.
Enquire at any branch of the
RURAL BANK
FOR EVERY CLASS OF TRADING BANK BUSINESS
“makes money work”
HEAD OFFICE: Martin Place, Sydney.
HELP
LEGACY
all the year round.
Donations: 169 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney. BM2OOI.
and special backing lights to be accept-
able in Hong Kong.
It appears that there is room for more
efforts by Australian manufacturers to
find outlets in Hong Kong, or for that
matter in the Philippines. In either place
the Australian Trade officials are highly
regarded and obviously doing a first-class
job. A recent four-page supplement on the
Australian automobile industry in the
influential “South China Morning Mail”
is well laid out and intelligently handled.
Unfortunately, the support of Australian
advertisers is conspicuous by its absence.
But it seems that some Australian
stockbrokers have discovered Hong
Kong’s possibilities. At least one Sydney
broker is advertising in local papers and
another one is setting up a branch. Mr
Andrew Tse, a member of the Hong
Kong Stock Exchange, who recently was
a guest of the Sydney Stock Exchange,
has commented favorably on his visit.
J.G.H.
UNITED KINGDOM
MORALITY IN ADVERTISING
TJersistent attempts in Britain to force
A the Government to hold a full-scale
inquiry into the advertising industry seem
now to have been abandoned, chiefly be-
cause of the ill-founded arguments
advanced.
The move for an inquiry got as far as
the House of Commons, where a Labor
member sought to push through a motion
that charged advertisers and advertising
agencies with bribery and corruption,
indecency, conspiracy and most of the
crimes in the calendar.
National advertisers of pharmaceutical
products and patent medicines were
charged with bribing doctors to prescribe
their particular brand lines ; manufac-
turers of intoxicating liquors with resort-
ing to indecent practices leading the
country’s youth into immoral ways;
others still with publishing advertisements
with lewd illustrations of the female
figure.
Allegations were also made of collusion
among giant commercial organisations to
persuade the housewife into believing
false claims about certain products.
Attacks of this kind on the advertising
industry have been made before ; but
only rarely because the allegations have
never been supported by factual proof.
In this case, the motive was political,
inspired by a group whose objective is a
regimented society in which freedom of
choice and freedom of thought have no
place.
We in Australia, too, have occasion-
ally been ear-bashed by critics of adver-
tising. Only recently a radio session was
devoted to the subject, but it fell pretty
flat because the panel of debaters con-
sisted of four persons who obviously had
no qualifications and could produce no
arguments to provoke the slightest public
interest.
This panel’s burden of complaint was
that people are often persuaded by adver-
tising to believe that product A is better
than product B. So what?
If the argument against advertising is
that the common man needs protection
against hidden persuasion, expert pro-
pagandists and all the skills of copy-
writers, it is also an argument against
democratic politics.
W.M.R.


FINANCE CORPORATION
of AUSTRALIA LIMITED
OFFERS A SPECIALISED FINANCE SERVICE
We have finance available for : —
LENDING
T
Developmental Projects
▼
Capital Equipment
▼
Commercial and Industrial Properties
▼
Business Expansion
DISCOUNTING AND PURCHASE
Mortgages
T
Contracts of Sale
▼
Leases
▼
Hire Purchase Contracts
FINANCE CORPORATION of AUSTRALIA LIMITED
ADELAIDE
F.C.A. Building,
IS Franklin Street
Telephone 513781
MELBOURNE
Union House,
SI Queen Street,
Telephonedl 30SI
SYDNEY
Anchor House,
Cnr. George and
Bridge Streets,
Telephone 27 7003
BRISBANE
Mercantile House,
262 Adelaide St.,
Telephone 31 2861
PERTH
M.L.C, Building,
171-177 St. George's Tee,
Telephone 21 6892


Estab'ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
a JACKSON
4,O'SULLIVajv 'j
PTY LTD Cfr
& 1
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufaciuring Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS Sz OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYFERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
PERSONAL PROFILE
SIR EDGAR BARTON COLES
“T’ve been talking shop, quite liter-
ally, all my life,” says Sir Edgar
Coles, one of Australia’s top shop-
keepers. “Even as a boy I was in and out
of various country stores owned by my
father.”
But he admits there was a time when
he had second thoughts on what was to
become a success story in the history
of retailing.
Born in 1899, Edgar Barton Coles was
one of seven sons of George Coles. Four
of them, Edgar, George, Kenneth, and
Arthur, were destined for distinguished
business careers, and to become Knights
of the British Empire.
The very first shop to bear the Coles
name was opened by George Coles Snr
at Horsham, Victoria, in 1874. Later
he transferred his family to Tasmania
and opened a general store there.
George, Kenneth and Arthur joined
their father. George already had a
vision far beyond that of his father’s.
He went to America for a time and re-
turned to Australia with the idea of
establishing a new American idea here
the chain store.
Meanwhile, young Edgar was still at
school, at Scotch College, Launceston.
He was a brilliant student and was dux
of the school by the time he left at
the age of 17.
His first job was with the Bank of New
South Wales in Hobart and later he was
transferred to Albury.
While Edgar was happy nankin j,
and was studying accountancy by cor-
respondence, he felt that promotion
wasn’t coming quickly enough. So he
went to see his brother George, who had
his own small store in Collingwood.
George offered Edgar a job, but at
£2 10s. a week, 255. less than he’d been
getting at the bank. Edgar accepted the
job and worked hard during the next six
years. But in 1925 he visited the United
States. What he saw there convinced him.
“And that was the year I finally decided
upon my career,” Sir Edgar now says.
His work with G. J. Coles, which was
now becoming quite a little empire
around Melbourne, consisted of just
about anything and everything concerning
the administrative side of the business.
He became the company’s secretary in
1919. He had continued his correspon-
dence course in accountancy and had
passed his final examinations for the
Federated Institute of Accountancy (now
the Australian Society of Accountants)
with the highest marks in the State of
Victoria.
He was a great asset to the family
business, being the only one to be form-
ally educated in business and finance.
In 1927, the year he was married,
Edgar was instrumental in floating G,
J. Coles as a public company. But even
though he was handling the company’s
financial affairs, he was still a “back
room boy”, with hardly anyone outside
the family being aware of his full talents.
One of his jobs at that time was
negotiating site leasings for new Coles
stores.
By 1930 he had earned a directorship
with the company. In 1931, brother
Arthur took over the running of the
company and a new stage of development
and expansion ensued. Around 1938,
however, Arthur became interested in
politics after becoming Lord Mayor of
Melbourne. As politics took up more
and more of Sir Arthur’s time, Edgar
emerged from his papers and began to
show himself as a fine administrater and
retailer.
Gradually he took over the reins of
Coles, so that by 1944. when Sir Arthur
resigned from the board (due to various
political appointments under the Chifley
administration). Edgar was ready to be-
come Managing Director.
At that time Coles had 85 stores and
an annual turnover of £5 million. Since
then, Sir Edgar has brought the company
to 600 stores throughout Australia and
a yearly turnover of £92 million.
Coles, and particularly Sir Edgar,
keep a very close eye on American
retailers. Sir Edgar ensures he has a
ready supply of the latest annual ac-
counts of American retailing firms, and
American trade papers are part of his
weekly reading fare. He makes trips to
the US from time to time, and there’s
an annual trickle of Coles executives
between Australia and America.
It might be expected that Sir Edgar,
now 63, Vice-Chairman and control-
ling Managing Director of the Coles
giant, and chairman of Myttons Ltd.
would ease up. But his vision keeps
widening and seems to become more
penetrating every year. He has no com-
punction about stating his aims. His
most recent projection for the future
was 27 new Coles supermarkets in Vic-
toria, NSW, and South Australia, and
an annual turnover of £l5O million in
seven years.
Business associates describe Sir Edgar
as being approachable but tough, quickly
decisive but warmly understanding, hard
but very fair.
His eye for detail is evidenced in h>s
activities outside of Coles. “If Sir Edgar
decides to take up a new interest, he
really digs into it and makes sure he
does his best at it”, an associate com-
ments.
One instance of this is golf. Sir Edgar
used to be a left-handed golfer. He
trained himself to play with his right
hand because he believed it would ma’ e
him a more effective player. His belief
was well justified. At one time, when he
was winning golf trophies in the mid-
30’s, his handicap was as low as 12.
His main relaxation, however, is 16
mm. movie photography at which he’s
credited with being very good.
Sir Edgar's charitable and civic work
through the years resulted in his knight-
hood, conferred on him in 1959. He was
Chairman of Finance of the Moomba
festival in Melbourne for a number of
years, and has campaigned for more
parking facilities. Additionally, under his
leadership, Coles Stores throughout the
country are active in local philanthropic
and civic projects.


TALCOTT FACTORS
- LIMITED
ISSUE OVERSUBSCRIBED
but applications still being accepted
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
at par
6 TO 10 YEARS
SHORTER TERMS
2 YEARS
7\>
per annum
3 YEARS
per annum
4/5 YEARS
TRUSTEES FOR THE DEBENTURE
STOCKHOLDERS
THE M.L.C. NOMINEES LIMITED.
Applications for Debenture Stock will be accepted
only on form of application attached to the
Prospectus, which contains interesting information
on the subject of Factoring.
Obtainable from :
• Any branch in New Soulh Wales or Victoria of
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange in Australia
• Either Office of TALCOTT FACTORS LIMITED,
188-194 George Street, Sydney
224 Queen Street, Melbourne
or from—•
BROKERS FOR THE ISSUE
J. B. WERE & SON
TFL/16/62.
KING AND YUILL
HAPPY DAYS IN SHARE ANALYSIS
A rarefied bird, the fully fledged in-
vestment analyst, grows more
common on the local landscape. This
despite the situation that his institutional
manifestation, the Sydney Society of
Investment Analysts, still remains shy
of public notice and performance. But
Sydney sharebroker Ralph W. King and
Yuill’s 1962 review of Australian com-
panies has arrived to show the bird in
complete and subtle flight.
The present issue makes a considerable
break with the simpler and more direct
methods of earlier years in the in-
terests of “a more mature analytical
treatment.” Yet the old range and mass
of purely historical information is again
set out.
It cannot be said that the introduction
carries quite the distinction and clarity
displayed by Ord and Minnett’s survey
of Australian equities, published in May
last year. Individual investors may find
a good deal to wrestle with.
The analysts have come to insist that
relatively simple criteria like dividend
history and cover are insufficient to
evaluate any given share over a period
for both capital and income growth. The
old simplicities apply only to a ready
assessment of income possibilities.
More and more the investment pattern
tends to ferreting out these growth stocks.
The refinements apply especially to
features such as capital improvement or
decline, earnings and dividend rates —
examined over a time. A truer basis of
comparison is provided by adjusting
these concepts for dilutional influences
of bonus issues and the bonus element
contained in cash issues made below
market prices.
Growth rates for earnings and divid-
ends are naturally based on past achieve-
ment and do not certify to future
performance.
Whatever a company’s dividend and
issue records have been, a declining
earnings rate on funds used should pull
up any prospective investor.
Much else can be deduced from the
growth concepts. The King and Yuill.
review furnishes a rich measure for
thorough analysis.
With all the adjustments, most of this
growth information must be regarded as
an index of trends. For a total picture,
the book has to be used together with
traditional arithmetical sources.
One particular index might come in
for some rough handling : the device
of market standing, to measure “the
esteem in which the stock is held by
the market.” It is obtained by “dividing
the average dividend yield on the stock
into the average dividend yield for all
stocks on the Sydney Stock Exchange.”
Apart from the horrors of an average
of an average, no acute investor could
allow a static market decision to de-
termine what he wishes to predict - a
future market status.
And after all the subtleties have had
their day, it is salutary to read the
ancient warnings : “General economic
prospects, the relative situation of the
industry and above all the quality
of the management of the company are
the over-riding factors.”
This feel, which the experienced in-
vestor gets into his bones, plus the new
analysis still throw up the old favorites :
Fire Fighting, Minster, McDonald In-
dustries, Concrete Industries, Mount Isa,
8.H.P., etc., etc.
V. WORSTEAD


■m
■w
y
v
&
--i \
h/L
■
' '/
K.
*> 'pg&i
\ i
v**
W
«2
is at the show
A complete modern banking service right on the
spot at the Royal Sydney Show—The Com-
mercial Bank of Australia Limited is operating
just that. If you’re visiting, exhibiting, or a
stallholder, we can help you.
Manufacturers Hall Stand No. 97-99
OPEN DAILY, 9 A.M. TO 10.30 P.M.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANK
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
Principal Office in New South Wales—273 George Street, Sydney.
TARIFF ADVISER’S RULING
BAD PRECEDENT SET
Tt was marvellous for the Australian
A manufacturers of bearings and bushes
used in motor vehicles that Sir Frank
Meere elected to go practically the whole
tariff hog in his first case as special
adviser on applications for temporary
protection.
Maybe. Sir Frank was a little too
anxious to show that, after administering
import restrictions for the best part of
eight years, he had seen enough of the
pressure exerted to get licences. For he
turned his back on quantitative restric-
tions and with a cavalier, or so it seems,
stroke of the pen he slapped on a hefty
new British preferential duty (21\ per
cent.) and stepped up the most favored
nation rate from to 35 per cent, on all
imports of these things when used as
original equipment.
It could also be that the special ad-
viser has made too much of the virtue of
simplicity in solving the problem merely
by removing bearings and bushes from
the tariff concessional by-law under
which they were previously admit-
ted, though there was a good deal to say
for getting all classes of imports on the
same tariff footing.
Be that as it may, by putting original
and replacement equipment under the
same lofty tariff roof he has stopped this
sort of leakage and removed a gen ine
grievance of local manufacturers. The
latter could not complain as loudly per-
haps about imports of original equipment
destined to go into vehicles manufactured
here by subsidiaries and affiliates of rver-
seas firms.
As new vehicles comprise the main
Australian usage of bearings and bushes
in the motor industry, naturally the dis-
placement of privileged imports repre-
sents a dearly coveted prize for local
manufacturers.
Presumably Sir Frank took the view
that in the cause of import replacement
he was entitled to use the big stick to the
international motor companies to get
them to take more of the local products
and maximise the Australian-made con-
tent of their vehicles.
For all the comfort brought to local
manufacturers, the height at which it has
been deemed necessary to fix the new
duties bodes ill for the public, just as
for the international motor companies.
There is bound to be a swinging in-
crease in the cost of bearings and bushes
going into new vehicles and also, to be
cynical, of those used as replacements.
In the end most of the increase will have
to be paid for by buyers of new cars.
At least if the alternative of quantita-
tive import restrictions had been adopted
one wouldn’t have expected quite the
same uplift to costs, though this would,
of course, have depended on the liberality
of the restrictions and the sort of share
of the total market Sir Frank had in
mind for local manufacturers. But clearly
he was loth to put the stamp of his first
adjudication on an involvement for his
old department in the tiresome process
of quota allocation and perhaps on piece-
meal import restrictions per se. His solu-
tion in this case could well be a signpost
to the future interpretation of the Gov-
ernment’s mixed but all-embracing bag
of protective devices.
If so, a warning should go out here
and now that while ad hoc increases of
this order in the tariff may be good for
employment, they play the very devil
with our competitive position and cost
structure. A bad precedent has been set.
CROESUS


British Tobacco Company
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS TO STOCKHOLDERS
IN HIS ADDRESS TO STOCKHOLDERS AT THE ORDINARY
GENERAL MEETING. THE CHAIRMAN (MR. T. J. N. FOLEY)
SAID
Your Company’s earnings in tlie trading year
ended October 31, 1001. declined by approxi-
mately 10 per cent, on the previous year—
the second successive fall after a seven-
year period of profit increases. As a result,
Directors deemed it prudent to reduce from
10 p.e. to 8 p.c. the year’s dividend on ordinary
and “11” ordinary stock.
This decision allowed retention from the
year's profits of £314,205, which has been used
to increase Reserves and Undivided Profits as
a continuation of the Company’s policy of pre-
serving its sound financial structure —a policy
which will be of considerable value in the
Company’s long-range development pro-
gramme.
The Consolidated Balance Sheet shows evi-
dence of this programme by an increase of
£221,054 in the item “Investments in Other
Companies.” and an increase of £1,132,917 in
“Other Debts,” the former being a measure of
the increased share investment in associated
companies which are not subsidiaries, and the
latter indicating the growth in advances in
loan form to various activities of diversifica-
tion.
It will also be noted that Trade and Sundry
Creditors were £5.05 million higher than at tlie
end of the previous year. This was mainly due
to the use of short-term funds lodged with
your Company on deposit during the latter
part of the year and credits which we were
able to negotiate from overseas associated
companies for purchases of leaf and equip-
ment. In both these cases the effective interest
cost was below that of bank overdraft, and it
was, therefore, more economical on this occa-
sion to use these sources of funds rather than
the bank accommodation which was available.
The decline in your Company’s earnings was
caused entirely by a reduction in the overall
volume of its cigarette sales. In the Annual
Review, in explanation of this serious adverse
movement, I referred to the marked change in
preference, over recent years, from non-filter to
filter-tipped brands of cigarettes. Since your
Company had a very high proportion of the
trade in the non-filter segment of the market,
it followed that any gain s made by our com-
petitors in their sales of filter cigarettes would
inevitably be at the expense of our non-filter
brands. I referred also to the factors which
have prevented your Company from moving
promptly with the change in fashion and so
fai ling. up to the present, to assume in the new
filter-tipped market a position comparable with
its share of the sales of non-filter cigarettes.
I can add nothing of real significance to that
account of events, and believe, in any case, that
you will be more interested to-day, and in
future reports, to know what is being done to
rectify the position and what progress has
been made.
In the past year two developments have
occurred which, if they continue, will
strengthen your Company's position in the
market.
The first, as referred to in the Annual
Report, was that in Ihe latter part of the
year under review there was evidence of
greater stability in the market for non-filter
cigarettes. In other words, the decline in
this market had been partly arrested and was
now proceeding at a much diminished rate.
This trend has continued in recent months
since the end of the 19(11 trading year.
The second development—even more import-
ant was the increasing acceptance of your
Company's new brands of filter cigarettes. Tlie
growth in sales of Craven A King Size Filters
is especially encouraging, and detailed market
research shows it now to be the fastest-
growing brand in Australia.
It is most difficult to forecast what effect
these two trends will have on your Company’s
sales over a longer period, but I can tell you
that, in recent, months, and on the most
reliable figures available, your Company has
achieved a small increase in its share Of the
total market. Whilst this result cannot, by
any means, be taken as evidence that the
Company’s 1 marketing problems have been
solved, it does support the impression now
gaining force in the trade and amongst, keen
observers of the industry, that a more solid
base has been established for the Company’s
effort to gain a realistic share of the filter-
tipped market and, consequently, for ultimate
recovery in the field of total sales.
However, even though there is some indica-
tion of possible success, eve feel that there is
no justification for accepting the market struc-
ture as it now exists. The fashion aspect and
the highly personal characteristics of cigarette
smoking make it distinctly possible that other
brands with special appeals to particular
groups within the community may win accept-
ance in parallel with Craven Filters, and
expand further our total share of the market.
Preparation for several of these new brands
has been almost completed, and at least two
of them will lie introduced within the next
four months. Their introduction will in no
way interfere with the developmental pressure
on existing brands.
There is another problem on which you
should be informed —a problem for your Com-
pany but one also of fundamental import-
ance to the future of the entire cigarette and
tobacco industry in Australia. It concerns the
uncontrolled expansion of the Australian leaf-
growing industry to which, in recent years,
attention has been drawn repeatedly in our
Company Annual Reports, and in communi-
cations with the Commonwealth and State
Governments and with growers’ organisations.
A critical point was reached in 1901 when a
high percentage of leaf offered at the auction
sales was rejected by manufacturers. It was
inevitable that this position must arise sooner
or latter, and it was forecast not only by your
Company but also by responsible grower
organisations and Government officers closely
associated with the industry.
Production has risen from 13,900,0001b5. in
190!) to 20,300,0001b5. in 1960, and a new record
of approximately 30,000.0001 bs. in 1901. Few
primary industries are equipped to handle
expansion at this rate without dislocation,
and as tobacco production requires skill and
experience and a careful selection of soil, it can
be readily understood that a large proportion
of the unsuitable leaf produced for the 1961
sales was due to inexperienced producers and
the use of unsuitable soils —both a direct result
of the inflationary pressure exerted on the
industry in recent years. Unseasonable con-
ditions in some areas were an additional
hazard.
This Company maintained a consistent policy
of buying only those grades of leaf which
were known by experience to be of the high
standard acceptable to Australian smokers.
In this tliere-CQuld be no compromise. Further,
it became necessary to issue a strong warning
to growers’ organisations that in future years
we would not be able to buy all the quantities
offered in some of the lower grades of the
previously acceptable schedule. The rapid
increase in the size of the total crop has been
accompanied by a disproportionate growth in
these inferior grades, which have been usable
in the past only in small quantities and for
particular blending purposes. In a leaf-
growing industry in which production has
more than doubled over the last two years, it
must be expected that, grades of leaf for which
there is but limited demand would soon be
produced in quantities in excess of Australian
manufacturers’ requirements.
The problem is one of over-expansion in
areas unsuitable to high quality production,
and even in the better areas expansion is pro-
gressing at a rate that invites over production
of some leaf grades which can be used only
sparingly in this country. Many discussions
have taken place to rind a solution, but
although the Commonwealth Government is
undoubtedly concerned and is exploring
various possibilities of correcting the situation,
there is no certainty that it will resist politi-
cal pressure in some of the leaf-growing areas
sufficiently to adopt a realistic attitude which
will prevent the further expansion of the
industry in areas known to be undesirable.
Our fear is that political support for, or even
political tolerance of, the production of tobacco
leaf known by manufacturers to be unaccept-
able to Australian smokers, must surely invite
still worse problems than those encountered in
It iff 1 in the form of huge quantities of high-
cost but unusable leaf.
Since the close of the last financial year a
further step has been made in one of the long-
range development .projects referred to in the
Annual Report. Xafoo Pastoral Company Pry.
Limited has purchased another property,
“Jemalong,” situated on the Lachlan River
near Forbes in New South Wales. Of a total
area of 25,000 acres, almost half has been
developed as high-grade pasture and about
•1,000 acres are under irrigation. At present (lie
property is producing merino and crossbred
wool and fat crossbred lambs, but it ■will also
be run in conjunction with “Glenrock,” the
Company’s other pastoral property, for the
fattening of young beef stock and to provide
a relief area in times of drought. “Jemalong’’
is well managed and highly productive. Both
stations are operating at a satisfactory level-
of profits, but for the time being these profits
are being reinvested in order to raise still
further their projected profit-earning capacity.
I wish, at this stage, to pay a tribute to the
work of the Company's staff and to their loyal,
enthusiastic and consistent support. In such
a year of adverse sales as 1901 there have
inevitably occurred many changes in methods,
organisation and individual tasks which have
placed heavy burdens on the staff and might
well have dulled the edge of their enthusiasm.
I am very pleased to tell you that, quite to
the contrary, there has been a very ready
response to all demands made, and your
Directors are most appreciative of the co-
operation they have received from the Com-
pany’s employees at all levels.
It is an unfortunate characteristic of all
published accounts that they are limited to
showing. only the arithmetic results of com-
pleted actions and cannot record the worth of
valuable preparatory and intermediate work.
The accounts before you to-day cannot reflect
it. but an exceptional amount of hard work
and creative effort took .place in lOffl, and there
is a strong sense of action and determination
towards tlie future in all members of the staff.


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
(A member of Commercial Union Australia Group)
ESTABLISHED 1872
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne. Queensland Branch:
Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
F. S. WATSON, Manager
THE CHAIRMAN SAYS:
PREMIUM SAVINGS BONDS IN HOUSING
By STANLEY LEIGHTON,
Chairman, Leighton Construction Ltd
r T''o restore activity in the home Duiiding
A industry it is essential to make avail-
able sufficient funds for prospective pur-
chasers at a reasonable rate of interest.
The rate of interest must be commen-
surate with the security offered, which
must be of a gilt-edged nature to attract
trustee investment funds.
How best can this be achieved?
One way would be to raise a Common-
wealth-wide housing loan. This could be
done by each State having its own housing
loan—as is the case with other utility
groups such as the State Electricity Com-
mission of Victoria and the Gas & Fuel
Corporation of Victoria —the Common-
wealth being used to support the States
only to maintain a regular flow of money
essential to avoid a repetition of the 1961
situation following the boom period of
1959-60, when too much was released over
a short period.
The State housing loan is essential as
many large companies in Victoria would
support a State loan to provide homes for
local employees, but they might not invest
if this loan money were to be used in
other States.
Another method of raising finance for
housing could be to copy the exciting
Premium Savings Bond Scheme now
operating very successfully in the UK.
What is a premium savings bond?
“Premium” tells you that there are
prizes ; “Savings” reminds you that this
is a form of saving; “Bond” promises you
that the Government will return your
money when you ask for it.
Thus premium savings bonds (£1 units)
are Government bonds offering a chance
of a prize and guaranteeing repayment of
the money on request. The Government
would pay, say, 5 per cent, per annum
on all the bonds in the draw.
The interest would not be paid to
individual bond holders, but would go
into a pool from which prizes would be
paid to those lucky in the draw. Every
bond would go in the draw six months
after the end of the month in which it
is bought. Thereafter a draw would take
place each month, and all bonds would
go into each successive draw until the
owner cashed them or died.
Prizes could be fixed at the discretion
of the Government. For instance, for
every £lO,OOO of prize-money, it could
make: one prize of £lOOO ; two prizes of
£5OO each ; four prizes of £250 each ;
10 prizes of £lOO each ; 20 prizes of £5O
each ; 200 prizes of £25 each.
Thus if the prize fund for any draw
amounted to, say, £1,000,000 there would
be: — 100 prizes of £lOOO each; 200
prizes of £5OO each ; 400 prizes of £250
each; 1000 prizes of £lOO each; 2000
prizes of £5O each ; 20,000 prizes of £25
each. Any odd sum left over would be
distributed as additional £25 prizes.
There is no question of subscribers
losing their money. Each unit costs £1
and is invested with the Government.
The draw would be made by a scien-
tific machine known as Electronic
Random Number Indicator Equipment
—“Ernie” —whose job would be to pick
cut a number at random so that all bonds
would have a chance of a prize.
It is estimated that such a loan as this
could provide at least £2O million a year
for housing from an investment by the
public, leaving the institutions to support
other methods of housing finance.
At the present time it would appear
that considerable sums are being used to
bridge the gap between the amount of
cash the house-purchaser has, and the
amount he has to provide for his deposit.
This is because of the very low advance
he can obtain from the usual lending
authority. This is hurting the purchaser
and at the same time is not providing
very high interest for the investor.
In addition, the other costs of
solicitors, procuration fees and so on are
paid by the purchaser.
It is usually necessary for house pur-
chasers to have an advance of at least
80 p.c. on a first mortgage. It is far better
to provide homes for 100 owners by
advancing 80 p.c. at a reasonable rate of
interest than to provide 130 homes for
owners who undertake more than they
can really afford.
The present method of the intending
home purchaser buying his land on terms
for the purpose of saving is uneconomical
because some of his savings are wasted
through the payment of interest on land
fully prepared three years before he wants
to use it.


LINDSAY MILDRED & CO.
Lindsay Mildred, Alfred Campbell
SHAREBROKERS
Members of the Stock Exchange
of Melbourne
56 QUEEN STREET,
MELBOURNE
62-1601
Telegraphic and Cable Address:
MILDRED MELBOURNE
GILBERT HARRIMAN & CO.
STOCK AND SHAREBROKER
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
KINDERSLEY HOUSE,
7th Floor,
20 O’Connell St.,
33 Bligh St., Sydney
Telegrams:
HAEBISHA, SYDNEY.
Tels: 28-8398, 28-8399
WALTER P. HAM & CO.
WALTER PERRY HAM and WILLIAM
JOHN BAKER
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
INVESTMENT HOUSE,
116 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
Telephone: 00-0221 (30 lines)
Telegrams: HAMWAL, Melbourne
STOCK OPTIONS
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
Suite 1, Sixth Floor, Temple Court
422 Collins Street, Melbourne
Phone 67-8011
BRANCH OFFICES
SYDNEY: 383 George Street, 29-7865
ADELAIDE: 61 Gawler PL, 7-8407
BRISBANE: 334 Queen Street, 31-1621
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS
ALL OFFICES— “OPTIONS”
Write or Phone for Free Brochure
and Current Price Schedule.
FOR CALL OPTIONS
CALL STOCK OPTIONS
SPECULATOR'S DIARY
Monday, April 2
Tn investing as in fishing, the best
stories are usually about the ones
that got away. Therefore I don’t really
expect you to believe this story about
the one that got away from me last
week and then came back and mauled
me badly. The fish in question was in the
troubled waters of Papua-New Guinea
Steamships Trading.
Early in the week I decided that Steam-
ships looked cheap at 41s. yielding over
6 p.c. Here was a company that had
been paying 124 p.c. dividends steadily
for 10 years and in the meantime had
made three par issues and two bonus
issues. A 6 p.c. yield seemed far too good
from a stock with a record like that,
particularly as it had just issued a promis-
ing interim report. The only doubt was
on the political score. But having bought
Philip Morris in the face of the Royal
College of Physicians, why not some
Steamships in the face of Dr Soekarno.
I was still weighing all this up in my
mind when I awoke on Thursday morn-
ing to find that Steamships received a
takeover bid. But I was not to be put off.
The obvious bidder seemed to be
W. R. Carpenter whose ss. shares were
selling at 325. or 335. Surely such a
takeover would involve at least two
Carpenters for one Steamships, thus mak-
ing Steamships shares worth about 655.
Such an offer would be very good
business for Carpenters who would have
to issue only 10s. worth of capital for
every £1 share in Steamships and as a
result would get an earning rate of about
40 p.c. on its outlay plus assets of 445.
Bd. per share. Flushed with this theory
that Steamships were going to be worth
at least 655. a share, I breathlessly rang
my broker on the dot of 9 a.m. and told
him to pay up to 555. for 200. He got me
100 at 50s. and the other 100 at 555., an
average of 525. 6d. Then today (Monday)
comes the cryptic and shattering news
that the takeover bid has been with-
drawn. This leaves me more than a little
chastened but still with the thought that
where there’s smoke there’s usually fire.
Another reverse came on the B.H.P.
front when its directors solemnly
announced an unchanged dividend last
Friday. If there was one thing that was
likely to stop the rot in B.H.P.’s share
price, it was an increase, however
modest, in the dividend. But, alas, none
was forthcoming. So I sold at 625. 6d.
though it meant taking a loss of £2O.
The languor that has engulfed B.H.P.
and the rest of the industrial market
last week showed signs of spreading even
to the oil market. To me this suggested
it was time to get out of oil shares. (Is
that going to be another of those state-
ments that will be taken down and used
in evidence against me?) The market’s
reaction to details of the Moonie No. 2
production test showed that from now
on it is going to take some really sensa-
tional news to make the oil market rise
significantly. I don’t say that the oil
market is going to collapse. But if too
many people start taking their profits
on the theory that we have seen the
“top” then oil prices could take a rather
uncomfortable slide. Confidence is a
fickle thing and it can be punctured by
the same factors that create it.
With this feeling of uneasiness, I
vacated my A.O.G. and Exoil shares.
The Moonie No. 2 news was so long
in coming that it was, as so often
happens, fully anticipated. I sold
immediately after the announcement and
got 945. for the shares and 78s. for the
rights. Between them they gave me a profit
of £2B over the outlay on the 50 shares
originally bought cum-rights at £5 18s.
Part of this profit was lost on the
1000 Exoil shares bought the previous
week at 2s. 6d. in a more optimistic
mood. It seems that the oil market is
finally becoming more discriminating
and henceforth the new oil companies
will probably be required to do something
in their own right and not simply ride
on A.O.G.’s back. Nevertheless this didn’t
put me off applying for my 1000 Mid-
Eastern shares which should still claim
a good premium when they come on the
market. I’m no geologist but geo-
graphically Mid-Eastern’s leases look to
be well placed.
SOLD
50 A.O.G. shares at 94/- .. £232
25 A.O.G. rights at 78/- ... £95
1000 Exoil at 2/7 .. .. £124
100 B.H.P. at 62/6 .. .. £3OB
BOUGHT
1000 Mid-Eastern Oil at 1/- £5O
100 Steamships Trading at 52/6 £267
I now hold :
, T . v „ Cost Cur-
JSo. of Name of Date Per rent
S o^ eS TT Co, “ pany Bought Share Price
300 Hornibrook 4/3/61 23/- 20/-
400 O'Donnell '
qao £ rif ?, in * 28/8/01 11/8 15/-
SOO Southgate 6/11/61 8/6 8/-
1,000 United Motels 20/11/61 3/6 4/-
1,000 Harris Hold-
ings 5/12/61 7/- 8/6
200 Hunter Douglas
„„„ ll otes 21/2/62 36/- 41/6
200 Beau Monde 8/12/61 25/- 32/-
500 Fibre Con-
tainers 13/12/61 17/6 19/-
400 W. J. Manufac-
turin S 24/1/62 11/9 13/6
400 Auto and General
Finance 8/2/62 19/9 23/9
300 Mauri Bros 16/2/62 22/6 23/-
100 F. W. Williams 20/2/62 36/6 35/6
1.000 Mid-Eastern
rights 22/2/62 1/-
200 Penfolds Wines 2/3/62 9/3
400 Anderson Meat 2/3/62 12/- 13/6
400 Kandos 9/3/62 21/- 22/
500 Peters 15/3/62 8/2 S/7
100 Philip Morris 16/3/62 26/- 26/-
800 Goodwins 21/3/62 5/9 5/9
500 Peter Lloyd 21/3/62 5/6 5/9
100 Steamships
Trading 29/3/62 52/6 49/-


COMPANY REVIEWS AND NOTES
THE BANK OF ADELAIDE
CREDIT BASE EXPANDED
TThe smallest of the free enterprise
A banks, the Bank of Adelaide was
incorporated by special Act of Parlia-
ment in December, 1865. L was regis-
tered as a limited company in 1928.
Activities are concentrated in South
Australia, but there are branches, as well,
in Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, Fremantle
and Brisbane. There is a branch in Lon-
don, too. and agents and correspondents
are established throughout the world.
The bank has a 40 p.c. equity holding
in Finance Corporation of Australia
Ltd, the big Adelaide-based h.-p. co.,
and there is an interest, too, in Develop-
ment Finance Corporation Ltd. The bank
also acts as an agent for Australian Fixed
Trusts, a member of the D.F.C. group.
The economic measures introduced, in
November, 1960, by the Federal Govern-
ment marked a turning point in the
economy and achieved pronounced
psychological effects on business confi-
dence generally. The Government was
quick to see that the proposals had over-
corrected expansionary trends and
measures were largely reversed or
abandoned.
In the 12 months to September 30 last,
Adelaide advances fell by £4.2 million
following reduction in bank lending
required by the Reserve Bank. Now,
there has been a total relaxation of credit
restrictions, apart from preference still
given rural production, housing and those
undertakings which, directly or indirectly,
contribute towards increased exports and
employment.
Constrained by official monetary con-
trols and economic conditions, the bank
disclosed net earnings, for the 12 months
to September 30, 1961, at £218,592 (up
£6380) after unstated tax and deprecia-
tion : —-
To Re- Re-
Sept. Profit. f — serves, serves.
] 957 .. 212,69 S 10 p.c.=175,000 37,698 1,904,943
19.38 .. 211,806 10 ~,, 175,000 36,806 1,941,749
1959 .. 208,468 10 ~,,175,000 33,468 1,975,217
1960 .. 212,212 10 ~,,175,000 37,212 2,012,429
1961 .. 218,592 10 ~,,175,000 43,592 2,056,021
This was equivalent to an earning rate
of 12.48 p.c. on unchanged equity, com-
pared with 12.1 p.c. in 1960, 11.9 p.c. in
1959, 12.1 p.c. in 1958 and 12.2 p.c. in
1957. Divs remained steady at 10 p.c.,
absorbing £175,000. Reserves, disclosed
at £2,056,021, received £43,592.
Banks’ profits in relation to share-
holders’ funds are lowest of any group
of Australian enterprises and measured
against actual volume of capital
employed - that is, employed by the
banks are lower still.
The Adelaide’s balance sheet reveals
deposits up £1,106,802 at £36,622,093 ;
amounts due other banks, down
£4,211,543, at £601,597:
1959. 1960. 1961.
Paid capital .. £1,750,000 £1,750,000 £1,750,000
Reserves .. 1,850,000 1,850,000 2,000,000
P. & 1. balance 125,217 162,429 56,021
Final divs. . . 87,500 87,500 87,500
Deposits, bills
pavabte, pro-
visions for
contingencies 38,269,598 35,515,291 36,622,093
Notes in circu-
lation . . 6,489 6,489 6,459
Owing to other
banks . . 1,806,463 4,813,140 601,597
£43,895,267 £44,184,849 £41,123,700
Cash .. .. 2,107,110 1,620,111 1,713,739
Money at short
call .. .. 1,785,000 862,500 2,298,750
Government
bonds . . 5,982,075 4,112,702 5,357,797
Statutory deposit
with-Common-
wealth Bank 5,068,000 5,407,000 3,926,000
Owing bv other
banks . . 2,979,231 1,983,329 2,280,115
Bills receivable 4,336,325 3,540,598 2,864,928
Liquid assets £ 22,258,341 £17,526,300 £18,441,329
Advances, loans,
bills discounted 19,264,404 23,974,084 19,760,922
Premises and
fittings . . 1,410,978 1,607,705 1,675,644
Other assets .. 961,544 1,076,760 1,245,805
£43,895,267 £44,184,849 £41,123,700
Advances as p.c.
of deposits. . 50.3 67.5 54.0
Liquid assets as
p.c. of deposits 58.2 49.3 50.3
Coin, bullion and cash was finally
entered at £1,713,739 (up £93.628),
while money at short call increased by
£1,436.250 to £2,298,750. Government
bonds were higher at £5,357,797 (up
£1,245,035) and the statutory deposit
with the Commonwealth Bank settled to
£3,926,000 (down £1,481,000), following
successive releases by the monetary
authorities.
The bank’s liquid assets finished up
£915,029 higher at £18,441,329, or 50.3
p.c. of total deposits (49.3 p.c. in 1960).
Advances, at £19,760,922, fell by
£4,213,162 —from 67.5 p.c. of total
deposits, in 1960, to 54 p.c.
Bank premises and fittings, in at
extremely conservative valuation, were
disclosed at £1,675,644 (up £67,939); all
other assets rose by £169,045 to
£1,245,805. Contingent liabilities were
entered at £4,536,929.
The bank continued to rebuild and
modernise its premises and machinery
and improved methods were introduced
to handle an increased volume of business.
New premises were erected at Enfield,
Ceduna and Edithburgh. Plans are W'ell
advanced for rebuilding in Sydney, Port
Pirie and Mount Gambier, and exten-
sive alterations are envisaged for the
head office in South Australia.
The bank has introduced an overdraft
service fee, to be charged annually, to
offset costs involved in administration
of overdraft arrangements.
Now, the bank is agitating for
increased flexibility of interest rates —for
“rates of interest in keeping with the
demand for accommodation and the pur-
pose for which it is required.” The banks
are a major source of short-term finance,
but they are no longer shapers of the
economy.
The present economic situation in
Australia is far from satisfactory, but it
does appear more optimistic. The
inflationary pressures of a year ago have
given way now to some measure of price
and cost stability. The Adelaide is w'ell
placed to benefit from any increased
demand for credit ; the h.-p. ancillary,
too.
When last sold in Sydney the bank’s
20s. ords fetched 495. 3fd. Purchase at
this price would return an immediate
yield of 4.1 p.c.
Balance sheet figures give a net tangible
backing of 435. for each of the 20s. ords.
MACROBERTSON (AUSTRALIA) LTD
SWEET TOOTH AND BUOYANT SALES
in Victoria more than 80
years ago, Mac. Robertson (Australia)
Ltd acquired public status in June, 1950.
The group occupies a prominent position
in the confectionery trade and is the lar-
gest, by far, of the Australian-owned
chocolate-, confectionery- and cocoa-
manufacturers.
Headquarters and manufacturing
plant are concentrated in Melbourne.
Interstate distribution is placed through
wholly-owned subsidiaries in NSW, Qld,
SA and WA. A wholly-owned subsidiary,
Colorprint Pty Ltd, handles designing,
printing and packaging. A wide range of
share interests include a half-equity in
Waxed Papers Pty Ltd ; a 22.07 p.c.
holding in Life Savers (Australasia) Ltd ;
a 43.65 p.c. holding in Australian
Licorice Pty Ltd ; a 47.26 p.c. holding
in Mac. Robertson Miller Airlines Ltd
(operating commercial airlines in Western
Australia with an interest in Air Beef
Ltd); a 24.57 p.c. holding in Maize
Products Pty Ltd ; and a 34.67 p.c. interest
in Gibson Confectionery Pty Ltd, of
Western Australia.
Mac. Robertson’s fortunes are influ-
enced to a great degree by variations in
the price of cocoa beans, at present pur-
chased on the world market. Seeking
independence of these fluctuations, some-


ADDRESS TO SHAREHOLDERS OF
AMALGAMATED CHEMICALS LIMITED.
BY THE CHAIRMAN. Mr. J. OLIMS. AT THE ANNUAL
GENERAL MEETING ON 30th MARCH, 1962.
Ladies and Gentlemen —
It is with great pleasure that I am able to report to you that your
Company has once again demonstrated its inherent strength and capacity.
The Company continued to expand at a rapid rate —despite difficult seasons,
over capacity in the Chemical Industry generally, rising costs, tighter credits,
integration, and reorganisation problems in the numerous Acquired Com-
panies; making the past year a period best described as a testing time for
Management.
The Profit figure of £515,416 is in keeping with our planning. It is worth
noting that, although the Profits of two of our major Operating Groups,
namely, Blyth Chemicals Limited and Lanes Holdings Limited, are only
included since the Ist July, nevertheless the Profit represents an increase of
57.5% over the £327,008 combined Profits of the separate companies for the
full financial year prior to amalgamation. The results speak for themselves.
The Consolidation will be completed during this year, and this will
result in a further rise in earnings. The steady growth of your Company
is assured.
The pre-eminence of your Company in the agricultural chemical field
in Australia is recognised by the largest overseas chemical companies and
numerous very valuable sole franchise arrangements have been entered into
during the year. Considerable progress in the export field has also been
achieved, and further increases in sales will be made this year.
Your Company’s Assets are conservatively valued, and we are confident
that our superior technical and marketing skill, combined with the very high
calibre of our Executives and Management, ensures for Shareholders and
Employees, continued security and increasing rewards. Prospects for the
current year are most favourable. Sales and Profit figures already show
considerable increases for the first quarter of this year.
Your Company’s products are essential in the production of food. There
can be no efficient agriculture unless chemicals are used. There is, therefore,
ample reason why we can be most optimistic of the Company’s future, both
in the short and long range view.
If you would care to peruse the Chairman’s address for the last two
years, you will find that I have made special reference to the capabilities of
our Managing Director, Mr. J. D. Wilson. His exceptional knowledge of the
Agricultural Industry, his able management of the Company’s affairs over
the past years, and his outstanding administrative ability are all an assurance
for the successful future of our organisation.
I am now about to retire from the office of Chairman, as my full time
and attention will be required in a new Company we are forming, and in
which I have been asked to be the Managing Director and Chairman. The
Company being formed will amalgamate numerous photographic and office
equipment companies in Australia, and will be known as “Olims Consolidated
Limited.” Mr. R. H. Blyth will also join the Board of the new Company as
Director, representing Amalgamated Chemicals Limited, which will, of course,
be a large shareholder. Naturally, Mr. J. D. Wilson is the unanimous choice
of your Board of Directors as the new Chairman of Amalgamated Chemicals
Limited. I believe that there would not be a better man to fill this respon-
sible position.
I would like to thank, most sincerely, all Directors, Executives, Staff
and Employees of the Group for their contribution to the success of the
Company.
times violent, the co. has established an
experimental cocoa plantation, “Wanaru”,
at Lae, New Guinea —the crop last year
was somewhat disappointing but “our
plantation manager expects the 1962
crop to show improvement.”
Meantime, West Africa continues as
the main producer of cocoa beans. The
extent of price variations —very much
the Achilles heel of the Mac. Robertson
organisation—and their impact on pro-
duction costs is vividly illustrated in recent
years. Gold Coast beans fetched £670
a ton in 1954, tumbled to £250 in 1956,
and recovered to £440 in 1958. Confec-
tionery producers are hard put to pass
on cost-increases to the consumer, com-
petitive markets and the sheer impossi-
bility of frequent price-changes making
adjustment difficult. In 1958 the price of
beans fluctuated between £440 and £338
a ton ; in 1959 between £3BO and £295 ;
in 1960 between £276 and £237 ; and last
term the price firmed to £250, then eased
to £202. The price has been quoted
more recently around £226 a ton. At
close of accounts, prices were higher than
average cost to Mac. Robertson. It was
not necessary for the co. to write-down
stock values.
Latest results reflect difficult trading in
the 12 months to December 31, 1961.
All subsidiaries operated profitably.
Overall sales were maintained at the level
of the previous year, but there was some
reduction in gross profit margins on
certain lines. Heat-wave conditions,
particularly in Victoria, combined with
economic slackness, had Mac. Robertson
battling for turnover. Raw material costs
were fairly stable, but wage costs, on the
other hand, increased, following basic
wage adjustments. Selling expenses were
heavier as the co. streamlined selling and
distribution techniques to meet increased
competition.
Consolidated pre-tax profit was
checked in, finally, at three-fifths the
1960 level. The net result, at £209,780
(down £100,379), was after tax, £92,472
(down £107,451) and depreciation,
£174.067 (down £3322):
Parext and Subsidiary.
r Dividends. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. , Ord. N serves. serves.*
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
1908.. 10.000 10 = 172,388 64,916 1,381,180
Capital profit, £81,405 .. .. 1,462,585
Tax overprovided, £ll4 .. .. 1,462,699
To staff fund, £12,075 . . . . 1,450^624
1959.262,921 15,000 10 = 172,388 75,533 1,526,157
Tax underprovided, £1971 .. .. 1,524,186
Staff fund overprovided, £5OO .. 1,524,686
1960.. 159 15,000 10 = 172,388 122,771 1,647,457
Tax underprovided, £689 .. .. 1’646,’768
Adjustment sale assets, £6023 .. 1,640,745
Revaluation investments, £345,846 .. 1,986’591
Reserves capitalised, £344,777 .. 1,641,814
Increase in intangibles, £345,846 .. 1,295,968
1961.. 19,500 10 = 206,865 1,279,383
♦After deducting intangibles, £1,232,522, as at
31/12/61.
Earning rate on higher average capital,
allowing for pref. divs, £19,500, is
reckoned at 9.2 p.c. compared with 17.1


COUNTRY SALES RIGHT?
Had a look at your graph on country sales
recently? Ever consider that the Railway
hulk loading system could increase those sales
considerably?
Bulk loading (now available to 1 1 1 country towns) offers
you:—
• Special low rates.
• Fast services.
® Transit of goods in locked, covered vans.
• Carriage of goods at Commissioner’s risk.
® Next-day delivery to towns up to 360 miles from Sydney.
No need now for country retailers to carry excess stocks—
regular, reliable delivery ensures quick turn-over.
Cut down on transport costs. Your goods go quickly,
safely and economically when sent by rail.
Ring MA 7861 to have a Commercial Agent call and discuss
your freight problem or write the Commercial Manager
(Special Services Section), Department of Railways,
Sydney Station.
NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT
RAI LWAYS
p.c., 14.4 p.c., 13.7 p.c., 15.4 p.c. and
13.5 p.c. back to 1956.
In last term the co. effected a one-for-
five bonus issue to lift paid capital
£344,777 to £2,368,659—£2,068,659 in
10s. ord. stock units and £300,000 in
20s. 6j p.c. cum. pref. stock units.
Mac. Robertson paid a steady 10 p.c.
div. on ord. capital but it was necessary,
in doing so, to draw on the dividend
equalisation reserve. Total reserves were
finally shown at a reduced £1,479,384
(down £368,074). The bonus issue
followed “a conservative writing-up of the
value of investments in subsidiary cos.”
There were few changes in the balance
sheet, liquidity remaining satisfactory.
The book-value of land, buildings, etc.
increased by £100,281 to £1,062,275.
Liability under forward contracts for
raw materials was reduced by £323,608
and deposits at call, taking up the leeway
at £308,000, appeared for the first
time:
Consdhdated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1959. 1960. 1961.
Pref £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Ord 1,723,882 1,723,882 2,068,659
Reserves .. .. 1,726,158 1,847,458 1,479,384
Loan, etc. . . 228,825 228,825 228,825
Overdraft .. .. 226,886 414,158 398,140
Creditors, etc. . . 953,691 960,422 616,557
Deposits at call . . —■ 308,000
Prov. long-service
leave .. .. 72,168 79,757 87,072
Tax provision . . 219,822 321,817 290,722
Final div. . . 103,433 103,433 124,119
£5,554,805 £5,979,752 £5,901,478
Land buildings, etc. 874,154 961,994 1,062,275
Plant . . . . 1,137,656 1,137,954 1,192,364
Plantation . . 110,978 116,207 121,566
Shares in other cos. 482,362 512,335 567,72 S
Stock . . . . 2,148,586 2,410,053 2,170,155
Book debts .. 596.949 631,019 583,650
Cash .. .. 4,180 10,190 3.740
Goodwill .. .. 200,000 200,000 200,000
£5,554,865 £5,979,752 £5,901,478
Selling costs continue to rise in the
current term. The average cost of cocoa
beans and cocoa butter should be slightly
lower in 1962 than in 1961, but this will
be offset by an increase in the weight of
solid chocolate tablets without an adjust-
ment in selling prices. Sales in January-
February were buoyant and above 1961
levels, and directors forecast that the 1962
result should be satisfactory, subject, of
course, to favorable weather conditions.
Mac. Robertson has always been a con-
sistent div. payer. But resources were
strained to hold the 10 p.c. on capital,
enlarged by the bonus in May, 1961.
The absolute profit was the lowest for
many years, and no dramatic improve-
ment can be expected in the current
year.
At 205., the 10s. ords return an
immediate yield of 5 p.c. The prefs are
rarely traded, but changed hands at
18s. 7d. in Melbourne, recently. The
net asset backing works out at a solid 16s.
2d. for the ords, £l2 3s. 2d. for the prefs.
Tastes change as do buying habits; the
introduction of Continental-type choco-
lates, the advent of television and the
growth of self-service together were
factors influencing the local chocolate
industry. On the other hand, the pro-
portion of young people to total popu-
lation is increasing and this establishes a
long-term trend which, if anything, should
boost sales. Even so, basic cost problems
remain. There are more dynamic fields
for the investor.
ALLIED MILLS LTD
GROWTH IN A NON-GROWTH INDUSTRY
HThe loss of most of our pre-war export
A markets for flour has given the
typical Australian miller reason to be
anything but jolly in recent years. The
cause has been heavy dumping of sub-
sidised flour from North America and
Continental sources.
Yet against this generally bleak back-
ground, Allied Mills Ltd has thrived. In
its latest term, group earnings rose for
the sixth time in a row.
For this shareholders can thank a
highly successful diversification pro-
gramme in which the chief factor has
been the development of interests in the
manufacture of margarine, edible oils
and allied products.
These are controlled by Mowbray Pty
Ltd in which Allied Mills has a two-
thirds interest, and Gillespie Bros Hold-
ings Ltd the remainder. Brand names
include “Daffodil” and “Tulip” which
rank among the best sellers in the field.
The manufacture of margarine and
allied products generally has been very
profitable. The results of Marrickville
Holdings Ltd, Sydney, and Provincial
Traders (Holdings) Ltd, Brisbane, bear
witness to this.
A high quality product is inducing
many a penny-wise housewife to put this
on the table instead of butter —so much
so that output is restricted by Govern-
ment quota to afford a measure of pro-
tection to the dairy industry.
Output of table margarine is limited
to about 16,000 tons a year. Industrial
and cooking margarine is widely used by
biscuit makers, bakers, confectioners and
pastrycooks who swallow up about 25,000
tons a year.
Allied Mills has also branched cut in
a big way into bread baking, thus tying
up a big source of demand for its flour.
As a sign of its strength it has just
acquired one of the oldest concerns in
the flour business, John Darling & Son
(Aust.) Ltd. This company has, besides
its flour-milling operations, a 49 per
cent, interest in the big bakery chain
operated by a subsidiary of Austral
Bakeries (Holdings) Ltd. It also has a
tie-up with Spillers Ltd, UK, which in
1958 took up 750,000 10s. ords and
£375,000 in convertible notes. The offer
for John Darling was four ss. ords in
Allied Mills for five ss. ords in J.D., or
12s. cash per 10s. ord.
Allied Mills was incorporated in
October, 1949. As a holding co. it took
over the business (at Summer Hill) of
Mungo Scott Pty, and its associate,
Thorpes, a pioneer in NSW of stockfeed
manufacture, a necessary adjunct in the


»&!
if -^rrr
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT Co. Ltd.
Financier . . Established 1882
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
Interest payable quarterly through the Bank of N.S.W Free of Exchange.
THIS ISSUE HAS BEEN FULLY SUBSCRIBED . . .
OVER SUBSCRIPTIONS NOW BEING ACCEPTED
Application Forms (and Prospectuses)
will be Forwarded on Request
Applications will be accepted only on one ot the forms
of application attached to the printed copy of the Pros-
pectus which may be obtained from:
• All branches of the Bank of New South Wales in New
South Wales, Australian Capital Territory, Victoria,
Queensland.
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange, or
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
Head Office: 74 Castlereagh Street. Sydney.
Telephone: BW 4521-2-3.
AND BRANCHES
Underwriting Brokers :
RALPH W. KING & YU ILL
(Members ot the Sydney Stock Exchange)
20-22 O’Connell Street, Sydney
84 William Street, Melbourne. 340 Queen Street, Brisbane
BROKERS IN VICTORIA
Clarke Sc Co., 450 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
BROKERS IN QUEENSLAND
Charles Elliott & Son, 356 Queen St., Brisbane
(Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
BROKERS IN CANBERRA
T. J. Thompson Sc Sons, C.B.C. Chambers,
Petrie St., Canberra.
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
.
2
ELECTRIC
LIFTS
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED,
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. FF 3931.
HYDRAULIC
Rep?esented in all States. Telegrams* Hydelec
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Exp ress Lift Co., Ltd., England.
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
C lncorporated, by Royal Charier A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £177,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the economic
growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O’Connell Streets, SYDNEY
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
flour-milling game. Besides the Mowbray
holding, other interests include Jacketts
Pty, wholly-owned flour-miller of Strath-
field, now trading as William Farrer Pty ;
Keys and Co. Pty, operating a very mod-
ern flour-mill at Narrabri; Andrew Baker
Pty, also wholly-owned and manufac-
turing starch, gluten, glucose and dex-
trines ; and Arthur Stockman (1939) Pty,
a stockfeed manufacturer and merchant
at Strathfield.
The flour-milling subsidiaries have for
many years ranked as the largest ex-
porters of flour from NSW, but because
of export difficulties, these now produce
a comparatively small proportion of
group revenue.
In an industry with hardly any growth
merit, the profitable use of new funds
has been remarkable.
Paid capital has jumped from £715,648
(including £200,000 pref.) at Oct. 31,
1958, to £1,552,656 at last balance date.
The rise has all been on the ord. register.
If all the John Darling holders took
shares instead of cash, a further £652,000
will be added.
Since 1955, profits have risen from
£54,689 (equal to 8.7 p.c. on ord. cap.
after the preference charge) to £260,715
for the 12 months to October 31, 1961
(18.6 p.c. on much higher capital).
The latest result was a gain of £7597.
It remained after providing £103,071 (up
£26,508) for outside shareholders’ in-
terests (mainly Gillespies’ holding in
Mowbray), £316,793 (up £55,418) for
tax, and £325,710 (up £49,436) depreci-
ation :
Allied Mills Ltd and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends ~
To Re- Re-
Oct., Profit.* Pref. r~ —Ord. serves. serves.
5 p.c.
£ £ p.c. £ £ £,
1958. 10,000 10 = 51,564 172,797 629,243
Profit sale assets, £43,915 .. .. 673,158
Provisions written-back, £34,000 . . 707,158
Assets revaluation res. transferred and
offset against intangibles, £131,541 575,617
1959. .218,;526 10,000 10 = 65,800 142,726 718,343
Profit sale assets, £25,000 .. .. 743,343
Assets revalued, £272,595 . . . . 1,015,938
1960.. 253,11 S 10,000 10 = 105,429 137,689 1,153,627
Tax adjustment, £8247 . . . . 1,145,380
1961.-260,715 10,000 10 = 135,266 115,449 1,260,829
* After deducting outside interests.
The latest tax charge is high in relation
to the profit claimed. Using the current
public co. rate of Bs. in the £ as a
measure, the provision of £316,793 is
applicable to a net of around £450,000.
Shareholders have kept well in the pic-
ture. The co. paid its first public div. in
1951 at 44- p.c. ; then 5 p.c. for the next
five years to 1956 ; 6 p.c. in 1957 ; rising
to 10 p.c. in 1958. This rate has ruled
since.
Other benefits have come by way of
four cash issues, all at par, and in the
ratio of one-for-four held —in March,
August and December, 1959, and
September, 1960.
The 10 p.c. div. in 1961 took £135,266
and after paying the 5 p.c. pref. shares
their usual £IO,OOO, left £115,449 to aug-
ment reserves at £1,260,829.
Intangibles, being the cost of acquiring


goodwill and trade rights, less amounts
written off, stand at £846,236, giving the
ss. stock units a net tangible assets back-
ing of 6s. 6d each.
Probably a major part of the disclosed
profits of the group have their source in
the margarine offshoot ; but increasing
importance attaches to the growing bak-
ery empire. A number of bakeries have
been purchased, being a continuation of
the board’s policy of extending interests
in fields “outside the milling industry and
in fields other than those dependent on
export income.” During the 1958-59
trading-year purchase of bakeries in-
volved the payment of £330,000 for good-
will and trade-rights and since then big
amounts have been spent on plant mod-
ernisation.
Investment in bakeries has enabled the
co., which is fundamentally a group of
flour-millers, to rely less on the unprofit-
able export market for (lour and to tie
a considerable part of the baking trade
to itself.
There is a growing competition in most
lines handled by the co.’s subsidiaries,
but in its diversification policy it is fol-
lowing methods that have proved par-
ticularly profitable overseas and which
have already shown spectacular results
in Australia.
Constant expansion, together with in-
creasing modernisation, including instal-
lation of automatic large-scale produc-
tion units in bakeries, has been soaking
up liquidity, despite the introduction of
new capital, £450,000 raised in registered
unsecured notes and heavy ploughback
of profits:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Canital 1959. 1960. 1961.
Pref. .. .. £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Ord 725,130 1,352,656 1,352,656
Reserves . . . , 718,343 1,153,627 1,260,829
Calls in advance . . 5,416
Outside interests .. 312,283 357,983 423,489
Term liabilities .. 791,818 1,039,657 1,161,314
Creditors .. .. 904,590 1,128,812 1,029,272
Overdraft . . . . 443,247 676,553 676,159
Staff provisions . . 68,003 165,34 S 172,727
Inter-co suspense 8,259 —•—
Contingencies . . 50,000 50,000 50,000
Tax provision . . 230,574 299,084 324,695
Final divs. .. 33,572 58,615 67,633
£4,491,235 £6,482,335 £6,718,774
Assets 1959. 1960. 1961.
Land and buildings 1,214,746 1,516,642 1,556,254
Plant . . . . 2,337,061 3,073,872 3,502,781
£3,551,807 £4,590,514 £5,059,035
Less depreciation 987,187 1,233,131 1,500,332
£2,564,620 £3,357,383 £3,558,703
Shares in other cos. 4,707 42,207 43,295
Stocks . . . . 773,744 876,140 954,815
Debtors ~ .. 948,062 1,332,699 1,314,322
Interco suspense ..
Cash . . . . 905 3,136 1,403
Intangibles .. 199,197 870,770 846,236
£4,491,235 £6,482,335 £6,718,774
Book value of plant advanced £428,909,
making a gain of nearly £1.2 million in
two years. To help pay for this, a further
£150,000 was raised in 8 p.c. registered
unsecured notes.
After a period of rapid expansion, this
could be the time to consolidate, especi-
ally after the John Darling takeover.
Competition is fierce in many sections of
the business and the disclosed earning
rate on capital has come back in the last
couple of years.
The 1960-61 result came out at 18.6 p.c.
on average ord. capital as against 23 p.c.
in 1960 and 31.7 p.c. in 1959.
Shareholders seem to have little to
fear. The size of the tax provision hints
strongly that a conservative line has been
adopted in striking a net profit for public
consumption. The margarine side of the
business should gain from the easing of
copra prices.
The costly promotion battle by bread
bakers to create public demand for
brand names has eased and advertising
expenditure budgets should benefit. A
price increase of id. a loaf last
December will also increase margins.
A highly satisfactory record and bright
prospects make this a well-regarded stock
and the ss. units are currently quoted
at 17s. to return 2.9 p.c. on the 10 p.c.
div. basis.
BROLITE INDUSTRIES LTD
SHOWING STILL GOOD
rriHE paint industry is very susceptible
A to adverse movements in the trade
cycle. Brolite has had its problems in
the past year with the downturn in econ-
omic conditions but the final results do
not give much cause for alarm.
Brolite Industries Ltd. was incorporated
in Melbourne in 1951 to acquire all the
issued shares in Brolite Pty Ltd. manu-
facturers of lacquers and related products
under licence from Andrew Brown Co.
of Los Angeles. USA.
The holding company operates through
the following subsidiaries:
Brolite Pty Ltd, NSW, Klean-Strip (Aust.)
Pty Ltd, NSW, Brolite Pty Ltd. Victoria,
Brolite (Qld.) Pty Ltd, Queensland, Brolite
(SA) Pty Ltd, South Australia and Brolite
(NZ) Pty Ltd, New Zealand. There are agents
in Launceston and Perth.
Brolite has a ready and exclusive access
to certain British and American labor-
atories, which is very valuable in keeping
abreast of innovations in the manufacture
of lacquers and enamels and other allied
products.
Due to unsettled trading conditions
which prevailed during the year, plans
for factory extensions were considerably
modified, but are now being stepped up
in Sydney and New Zealand.
All subsidiaries traded profitably, the
New Zealand subsidiary showing the best
results —£50,964 without adjustments
for the premium on exchange between
New Zealand and Australia.
Consolidated net profit for the year
ended September 30, 1961, fell from
£129,449 in 1960 to £114,327 the
second highest in its history after writing
off £14,399 for depreciation (down
£2156) and providing £80,601 for taxa-
tion (down £11,229): —
Brolite Industries Ltd and Subsidiaries.
Dividend. —■, Re-
Sept. Profit. Pref. Ord. serves.*
30, £ £ £ £
1958.. 101,525 5 p.c. = 3000 12 p.c. = 28,800 423,621
Tax overprovided, £1220 .. .. 424,541
Preliminary expenses w/off, £149 -. 424,692
1959.. 110,760 74 p.c. =4500 15 p.c. = 36,000 494,952
Tax overprovided, £537 . . . . 495,489
1960.. 129,449 74 p.c. = 4500 15 p.c. = 36,000 554.438
Less underprovided tax, £628 .. .. 583,810
1961.. 114,327 74 p.c. = 4500 15 p.c. = 45,000 648,637
* Subject to intangibles £168,386 at 30/9/’Ol.
After paying the unchanged (74 p.c.)
preference dividend (£4500), the earning
rate was 36.2 p.c. on higher capital, com-
pared with 52.1 p.c. in 1960, 44.3 p.c. in
1959 and 41.04 in 1958. The ordinary
dividend was steady at 15 p.c. absorbing
£45,000. Reserves benefited by £64,199,
rising to £648.637, subject to £168,386
intangibles at balance date.
Early in the last financial year the
company made an issue of 10s. ords at
par, one-for-four. This raised paid ord-
inary capital from £240,000 to £300,000.
The issue was made at a time when the
boom was still on and money for expan-
sionary purposes was scarce.
As the year progressed, the company
was apparently unable to make full use
of the fresh capital. The earning rate
slipped from the buoyant 52.1 p.c. in the
previous year to a more modest 36.2 p.c.,
still giving a good margin over the 15 p.c.
ordinary dividend.
Creditors were lower at £63,212
(down £5917). Exchange fluctuation pro-
vision was higher:—
CONSOLI DA TED FHi UR i'.K.
1959. 1900. 1901.
Paid capital—
Pref £OO,OOO £60,000 £60,000
Ord 210.000 240,000 300,000
Reserves .. 494,952 584,438 648,037
Creditors . . 72,415 69,129 63,212
Shareholder’s
advances . . 31,022
Exchange fluctua-
tion prov. . , 3,600 5,040 6,480
Tax prov. .. 72,039 92,283 81,042
Final div. .. 21,450 19,500 24,000
£995,478 £1,070,390 £1,183,371
Freeholds,
leaseholds. .. 189,778 207,443 240,024
Plant, machinery 94,425 94,031 90,49.)
Investments . . 20 40,220 134,814
Ca*h etc. . . 86,465 91,181 96,022
Debtors .. 125,247 192,672 169,828
Stock .. 281,415 276,457 252.802
Intangibles . . 168,128 168,386 168,386
£995,478 £1,070,390 £1,153,371
Freeholds and leaseholds rose by £32,581
to £240,024. Plant and machinery stood
at £90,495 (down £3536). Investments
rose by £94,594 to £134,814. Liquidity
seemed satisfactory at £96,022 —an in-
crease of £4841. Book debts stood at
£169,828 (down £22.844). Stocks rose
slightly to £282,802 (up £6345).
The company’s plant was further im-
proved and several valuable new lines


John N. Robertson, Thompson
and Co.
Members of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS,
Temple Court, 423 Little Collins St.,
Melbourne, C.l.
Telephones: 67 6154, 67 6155
Telegrams and Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members ot the Sydney Stock
Exchange
DeSfin House,
16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building,
150 Queen St., Melbourne,
67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables:
“Rosdale,’' Sydney, Melbourne
or Wollongong.
GUNTON, STEEL & HILL
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS.
Members of the Sydney Stock
Exchange.
Kindersley House, 20 O’Connell
Street, Sydney.
Box 1632, G.P.O.
Telephone:
28-2041 (6 lines)
Telegrams:
“Gunot,” Sydney
Telex: S.vd. 242
A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A L NEVITT. A. C. DRAPER.
N. \V. C. DRAPER
{Members o / Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building.
297 Queen Street. Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEYITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 PO. BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
All the
family
will love
Everybody's
were added to the company’s list of pro-
ducts. Costs have been controlled through
greater manufacturing efficiency.
Last year’s par issue contained a high
bonus element. However, the company
may not be prepared to reward share-
holders again for some little time.
At the last sale in Sydney the 10s.
ords fetched 535. (compared with 445.
in the first week of January, 1962,
which was the highest price for at least
the past 12 months) yielding 2.8 p.c. on
the 15 p.c. div. rate. In Melbourne the
5 p.c. p-refs changed hands at 20s. 6d.
with an immediate yield of 4.9 p.c.
based on the p.c. dividend rate.
Net tangible assets backing for 20s.
prefs was £l4 and for the 10s. ords 265.
a unit based on consolidated figures.
MARY KATHLEEN URANIUM
EMBARRASSMENT IN EFFICIENCY
A/Tary Kathleen Uranium Ltd has
demonstrated that although the
very latest mining equipment increases
efficiency and profit, it can be embarrass-
ing when the market is limited.
For the company at present faces a
bleak period after the end of next year
as the result of filling its main contract.
M.K.U. came into existence in 1955
when, under an agreement between Rio
Tinto Mining Co of Australia Pty,
Australasian Oil Exploration Ltd and
the Walton MacConachy Syndicate
(original discoverers of the field), it
acquired the Mary Kathleen uranium
leases between Cloncurry and Mount
Isa.
A.O.E. subsequently sold its interest to
Mary Kathleen Investments Ltd (now
Kathleen Investments (Aust.) Ltd). Present
division of interests in M.K.U. is : —Rio
Tinto Holdings Aust., 51 p.c., Kathleen
Investments (Aust.) 35 p.c., Walton
MacConachy Syndicate 7 p.c., and
nominees of Rio Tinto Holdings (Aust.)
7 p.c., part of which has now been dis-
posed of on ’Change.
The company’s main contract has
been with the United Kingdom Atomic
Energy Authority for the supply of 9
million lb of uranium oxide (4500 short
tons of 2000 lb each).
The contract provided for a small
premium for early delivery—with a maxi-
mum premium during 1959. Successive
reductions eliminate the premium by the
end of this year.
Supervised by Rio Tinto, construction
work began early in 1956. Total cost
was then estimated at £lO million. Actual
cost has been about £l2m., with over
£lsm. total funds employed in the pro-
ject. Large sums were advanced by Rio
Tinto (5 p.c. unsecured) and the UK
A.E.A. (secured).
Production of uranium oxide began
in June, 1958, well ahead of schedule,
and the first shipment was delivered five
months later.
The mine is operated by the open-
cut method and the overburden removal
programme was completed late last year.
As a result mining operations were then
reduced to one shift with increased
efficiency.
Despite the shorter working time, much
more ore was mined and ore supplied
to the crushing plant increased by more
than 25 p.c. from 478,626 short tons
to 606,645 tons.
It is at this stage of operations that
the new electronic sorter proved its
worth. Nearly three times the amount
of waste was rejected by the sorter with
a consequent rise in the grade of ore
supplied to the mill from 3.751 b a ton
to 4.361 b. The large tonnage of reject
material, with a uranium oxide content
of 0.461 b a ton, was of no economic
value.
Mill efficiency was mainta'ned, re-
covering 91.87 p.c. of the oxide content,
but, due to the longer running time,
production of oxide was stepped up
30 p.c. from 1,475,8511 b to 1,925,6921 b.
The new sorter was directly responsible
for 357,6001 b of the increase.
Shipment of oxide totalled 1,802,3811 b
compared with 1,420,460ib in 1960. This
brings to over five million lb the quantity
of ore supplied under the contract
all from three years and seven months
mining operations.
Gross revenue for the year was
£8,665,933 (£6,499,380 in 1960), mining
milling and administration costs were
£2,856,532 (£2,360,746), interest ci: loans
was £183,532 (£248,878), operating profit
was £5,626,262 against £3,889,756 in 1960
and £3,723,886 in 1959.
The company made no provision for
depreciation and the tax provision of
£16,700 (£8700) applied to interest re-
ceived. Profits from uranium mining are
exempt from tax liability up to June 30,
1968.
Net t — Dividends. —, Re-
Dee. Profit. Pref.Ord. Total. serves.*
31, £ p.c. p.c. £ £
1958 .. 1,417,266 1,417,266
1959 . . 3,723,886 8 110 801,907 4,279,245
1960 .. 3,889,756 8 180 1,399,968 6,769,033
1961 . . 5,626,262 8 320 2,380,079 10,015,216
* Subject to £1,168,905 intangibles at 31/12/61.
Four ordinary dividends each of 2s. a
2s. 6d. share were paid during the year,
absorbing £2,273,471 and representing
320 p.c. on capital. The previous year’s
4s. 6d. a share, requiring £1,278,828,


.epresented 180 p.c. on capital. The pre-
ference dividend required £106,608
(£121,140). Since the close of the year
another quarterly dividend of 2/- a share
has been paid.
M.K.U.’s issued capital consists of
5,683,678 2s. 6d. stock units and 1,214,800
(1,402,100) 20s. 8 p.c. cumulative re-
deemable prefs.
Rio Tinto holds all the prefs. which
were issued in 1959 in part satisfaction
of a long-term loan. They are redeemable
in quarterly instalments, the whole to be
redeemed not later than May 1, 1967.
Profit not specifically earmarked, and
after pref. payments, was equivalent to
777 p.c. on capital :
Paid capital— 1959. 1960. 1901.
Redeemable
pref. .. 1,580,400 1,402,100 1,214,500
Ord. . . 710,460 710,460 710,460
Reserves .. 4,279,245 6,769,033 10,015,216
Long-term loans—
Sundry . . 199,857 65,668
U.K. Atomic
Energy
Authority 5,649,774 4,399,448 2,899,330
Creditors, pro-
visions, etc. 419,751 428,535 468,994
£12,839,487 £13,775,244 £15,308,800
Freeholds, mining
leases, etc. 355,126 343,763 343,810
Buildings, plant,
machinery,
etc. .. 9,462,297 10,086,179 10,106,342
Investments . . 95,455 196,808
Stocks ore and
oxide .. 676,600 854,806 1,320,492
Stores .. 733,506 763,054 610,109
Debtors ~ 187,858 459,641 309,083
Cash .. .. 426,425 120,711 1,253,251
Intangibles .. 997,675 1,051,635 1,168,905
£12,839,487 £13,775,244 £15,308,800
Reserves rose by a total of £3,246,183
to £10,015,216 and include £6,603,400
(£4,197,700) for the repayment of long-
term loans and redemption of pre-
ference shares, and £493,600 (£306,300)
set aside as prescribed by statute, being
a sum equal to the 1 amount applied in
redeeming prefs.
The long-term indebtedness was nearly
halved during the year. At December last
the only outstanding long-term loan
was £2,899,330 to UK A.E.A. A total
of £1,500,118 was repaid on this during
1961, and the final payment of £65,668
of a pre-contract loan from Rio Tinto
Holdings (Aust.) Pty was made.
The company was particularly liquid
with £1,253,251 (£120,711) in cash and
short-term deposits subject to the 2s.
dividend paid in February —and uranium
oxide valued at £1,239,983 (£693,595)
waiting to be shipped.
From the reserve point of view, the
position is sound with an estimated 5.3
million tons of ore averaging over 31b
of uranium oxide in or adjacent to the
open cut. No uranium exploration was
conducted during the latest period. The
water position, too, is excellent with
enough in one storage dam alone to
see out the UK contract.
However, on the present rate of pro-
duction, the contract should be completed
by the end of next year. After that the
outlook is not good and on present in-
dications n is doubtful whether the
company will be able to sell commercial
quantities of concentrates for some years.
The building of a nuclear power sta-
tion in Australia is likely to be a very
costly project, capable of being financed
only by the Federal Government; and
despite preliminary discussions, such a
station appears to be still a long way
off.
There is some hope of supplying
uranium oxide to India and Japan where
nuclear power stations are being built,
and experiments are being conducted in
the use of uranium as an alloy in steel.
But it is most improbable that, on com-
pletion of the UK A.E.A. contract, the
company will enjoy the same scale of
profitability.
To tide it over the lean years until the
expected pick-up in demand for uranium
oxide at the end of the ’sixties, the com-
pany is actively investigating a number
of copper and silver prospects in the
Mary Kathleen district. These include
Trekelano (copper), Blockade (copper),
Mt Elliot (copper) and Silver Phantom
(silver). Silver Phantom some years ago
produced between 100,000 and 200,0000 z
of silver before closing down.
Should any of the prospects prove
worthwhile, M.K.U. could produce either
copper concentrates or copper matte,
both of which could be exported profi-
tably to Japan.
Pending determination of these de-
posits, research is also being conducted
with a view to possible agricultural ac-
tivities at Mary Kathleen, making use
of the water stored in the two reservoirs.
Despite the rather unfavorable medium
and short term outlook the shares were
last traded around 255. 6d.
On the present rate of profitability,
they could get most of this back by the
time the main contract expires. This
would leave a fully equipped mine and
plant all unencumbered, with production
costs comparable with other low cost
uranium producers throughout the world
as well as the town of Mary Kathleen.
With an energetic board, and the backing
of the Rio Tinto-Consolidated Zinc
group, it is unlikely that the venture will
be allowed to stagnate.
MASSEY FERGUSON
SALES PROP 8.6 p.c.
■RyTASSEY FERGUSON HOLDINGS (AUST.)
Ltd, Melbourne-based agricultural
machinery maker, blamed abnormally
dry conditions throughout Australia
for an 8.6 p.c. drop in sales —down
£203,000 at £2,162,000—in the quarter
ended January 31, 1962. Net profit
slipped £33,000, or 26 p.c., to £93,000.
Sales of haymaking machinery fell
35 p.c. below those of the January, 1961,
quota; parts sales were also lower.
Tractor sales were satisfactory.
Massey Ferguson holds out good pros-
pects for the second quarter of 1962.
Summer rains in NSW and Queensland
indicate heavy crop sowings.
Even though the 1961-62 wheat harvest
failed to equal the peak yield of the
previous season it was, nevertheless, much
bigger than the average post-war yield.
Grain growers are enjoying a pros-
perity which augurs well for the coming
season. The possibility that wheat exports
will again limit carry-over is a good sign.
CENTURY STORAGE BATTERIES
EXPANSION TO FIJI
/'"'entury Storage Batteries Ltd may
set up a factory in Fiji. The co.
already exports batteries to New Cale-
donia, Fiji, Samoa and New Guinea, but
feels that a Fijian-based factory would
enable greater penetration of Pacific
markets.
The company is concerned that Jap-
anese rivalry be contained. Sales man-
ager Mr Alan Macdonald is solicitous
of Australian interests in the area —“if
reciprocal trade is the problem, why not
arrange for Pacific interests to have a
trade mission to Australia.”
Meantime, Century’s manufacturing
offshoot in Malaya, in its first 12 months
trading, earned a net profit, £10,116. Faid
capital, of which the parent owns 55 p.c.,
aggregates £105,000. Century supplies
component parts from its Australian
plant.
EMU BAY RAILWAY
NET EARNINGS RISE
of the last two privately owned
railway companies in Australia, The
Emu Bay Railway Co. Ltd of Tasmania
managed to increase profit from opera-
tions in the year ended December 31,
1961. The result was £155,646 (compared
with £112,531 in 1960).
Interest earned was an additional
£14,666 (1960 £10,141).
After providing £50,000 (£33,000) for
replacement and upkeep of locomotives
and rolling stock ; £IO,OOO (£6000) for
long service leave, £6500 (£3250) for
retiring grants; £57,000 (£30,750) for
tax; and paying £55,472 (£47,451) for
interest on debenture stock, the balance
carried forward in profit and loss account
was £990.
Railroads are no business for private
enterprise obviously.
The interest on the debenture stock was
a full year's interest on both the 44- p.c.
and 5 p.c. debenture stocks, and a reduc-


ATTENTION
ALUMNUM
USERS
Ltd.
are now a distributor for
(OMALCO ALUMINIUM
PRODUCTS
McPherson’s Ltd., can offer you expert techni-
cal assistance, prompt delivery and the advan-
tages of a modern Distributing Store at South
Melbourne. Comalco Aluminium products cover
industrial, architectural and transport needs
and are constantly being extended.
B
COMALCO
AUSMIMnSM
TELEPHONE 62-0301.
McPherson's limited
15 Gladstone St. # South Melbourne and
546-566 Collins Street, Melbourne
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company of
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlement of claims
Directors
ALFRED S. WHITE. Esq., Chairman ; E. G. CONEN, Esq., T. K. MAGNEY, Esq., A. G. PARKER,
Esq.. DOUGLAS WADLEY, Esq.
H H MOULTON Esq.. Managing Director. B. J. LANE, Esq., Manager
‘Phone. BU 1401 (/tranches in all Stales) 16/20 Bridgf Street. Sydney.
tion in arrears of the 5 p.c. stock equal
to two years’ interest.
Walkers Ltd, of Maryborough, Qld,
have the contract to supply three diesel-
hydraulic locomotives early in 1963.
Ore tonnage from the Electrolytic Zinc
Co. increased materially during the year,
and a new diesel-hydraulic locomotive is
being ordered to handle the traffic.
The rail service between Rosebery
and Zeehan is being subsidised by the
Tasmanian Government, since the closing
of the Zeehan mines rendered the service
uneconomic.
The Emu Bay line runs from Burnie,
on the north coast, to Zeehan.
The other private co. still operating in
Australia is Silverton Transport and
General Industries Ltd which survives
by virtue of its service to the mining
cos. of Broken Hill, from Cockburn, 36
miles away on the South Australian
border.
SEBELS (AUSTRALIA) LTD
PROFIT EDGES UP
■jVTiNETEEN sixty-one, a year of depres-
sion in the furniture industry gen-
erally, was a good year nonetheless for
Sebels (Australia) Ltd. Turnover ex-
ceeded the previous year’s record by a
comfortable margin.
The new V.I.P. furniture and improved
Stak-a-Bye chairs contributed to the co.’s
success. Directors are convinced that the
“large user” field is not yet properly
catered for, and several important new
products are under development.
Profit for the year to December 31
advanced p.c. from £46,719 to £53,023
after providing £34,907 for tax and
£16,780 for depreciation. Earning rate
stepped up from 20.8 to 25.7 p.c. on
slightly higher average capital employed.
(A one-for-nine bonus was made in
October, 1961.)
Steady div. of 12? p.c. in equal half-
yearly payments required £29,687. The
immediate yield is 6.6 p.c. on the latest
quote of 9s. 6d. for a ss. ord.
Overdraft was reduced during the year
from £47,808 to £12,150, and alternative
accommodation was obtained from a life
company on a long-term basis, this
liability increasing from £52,500 to
£77,500.
Stocks were slightly larger—£l27,s47
as against £110,203 —but debtors’ ac-
counts were controlled more closely and
fell from £152,315 to £139,910.
Tangible asset backing per ss. ord.
share is 7s. Bd.
The building programme is still under
way, and so far 10,000 sq. ft of floor
area has been added to the original
77,000 sq. ft. of factory space.
The co. was formed in 1951 under
the sponsorship of D. Sebel and Co. Ltd


LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Sixth Floor,
56 Hunter Street, Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Telephone: BW 5721.
Telegrams and Cables:
“LAGRAM,” Sydney.
LEONARD G. MAY & SON
Incorporating J. E. MARTIN, HEAD
& CO.
Partners: L. G. MAY, J. G. MAY,
V. T. HAUSER, E. W. HEAD.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS,
Ground Floor, 99 Queen Street,
Melbourne.
Telephones: 31U2638, MU5746-7, MT72569.
Telegrams: “EENNMAY,” Melbourne.
CONSTABLE & Company
BW 0781
Member of the
SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE
25 O’Connell Street,
SYDNEY
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you properly
covered? Now is the time to
review your insurances. Serious
financial losses can result on private
and business premises that are
improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IS YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your
fancy write to the Manager, who will
quote you a price for the original.
of England. Early in 1961 the English
co.’s shareholding was disposed of to
Australian interests, but the technical
liaison is still maintained.
The co. is now entirely self-contained
and does not rely on the import of any
components for its products.
CHEVRON SYDNEY LTD
PLAINTIVE PLEA FOR TIME
/Chevron Sydney Ltd debenture holders
could be looking wryly at a “message”
from the chairman (Sir John McCauley).
In it they are asked to grant a four
months’ postponement of “payment of
debentures” until July 31. A Mel-
bourne meeting, presumably to be un-
prejudiced by any further literature, has
been called for April 9.
Since actual attendance will certainly
be rather thin, Sir John must request
proxies to gain a necessary support from
at least 75 per cent of issued debenture
holdings. Under the dubious cloud at
present hovering above Chevron (and
the entire Stanhill group), some of his
arguments don’t appear very appealing.
With debenture interest constituting
a first charge upon earnings, it may sound
a little misleading to claim that the large
and lavish hotel “is operating efficiently
and profitably.” Admittedly the trades-
men’s bills are being paid. Directors
forecast a peak possible profit rate at
£lBO,OOO a year by October.
This still leaves a deficiency of about
£260,000 yearly, when fixed interest
charges are brought into account. Much
of this remains debenture holders’ expec-
tation and right.
Directors believe extra time will allow
them “to obtain capital to complete the
hotel or to dispose of it to the best
advantage of all concerned.” The existing
structure and its range of services could
apparently become genuinely profitable
after a bare-bone development involving
381 additional bedrooms, a 650-car park-
ing space, a bowling alley, shops and
arcades. These already planned exten-
sions demand £4 million new capital.
The company’s past history makes this
programme rather ambitious, to put it
mildly. And a sorry vagueness cloaks
“three interested groups overseas,” as
well as “other interested parties.” Even
Sir John has to admit that there has been,
“no meeting of minds.”
Any choice will be cruel for present
share and debenture holders. They can-
not gain much appeasement from a situa-
tion which is, to all appearances, basic-
ally unchanged, though December’s
annual meeting promised a “new look”
and more open dealings with them.
As an absolute minimum, some hard
and honest facts must emerge from the
April meeting. Otherwise the standing
of one or two directors should be plainly
impugned.
Late last week two Chevron directors
(Messrs A. Laurence and R. C. Proctor)
announced their departure from the
board of Stanhill Consolidated, having
“no option but to resign." Nothing be-
came this directorship like their leaving
of it.
Trustees for the debenture holders
(T. and G. Nominees) have approved
Sir John’s chairmanship of the meeting.
They have, as yet, disclosed no attitude
on the issues. The agenda indicates
reports from both trustees and directors.
Then the meeting decides whether to
postpone “interest due on the 31st
January, 1962” and “principal moneys
secured by the stock and payable on the
31st March, 1962, together with the in-
terest thereon payable.”
One or two rabbits may also be pulled
from the hat £4 million from an over-
seas uncle or the hotel’s sale
V. WORSTEAD
AMALGAMATED CHEMICALS
COMPLEX STRUCTURE
A MALGAMATED CHEMICALS LTD has
experienced a complete chemical
change during the financial year to
December 31, 1961. Its structure at that
date bears little resemblance to its com-
position in 1960.
In a dramatic series of mergers and
takeovers during 1961, the organisation
emerged as the leading supplier of agri-
cultural chemicals in Australia.
At December, 1960, the group com-
prised Olims Chemicals Pty Ltd, O.C.
Investment Pty Ltd, H. Fredman Pty
Ltd, David Chemical Corporation Pty
Ltd, David Chemical (Manufacturing)
Pty Ltd, Ardrox (Aust.) Pty Ltd, Formu-
lators Pty Ltd, Aerflo Dusts and Sprays
Pty Ltd, and George C. Warner Labora-
tories Pty Ltd.
From the original nine subsidiaries
the group now claims 33. The major
additions were Blyth Chemicals Ltd and
Lanes Holdings Ltd and their respective
subsidiaries.
Other new members are Carry-Pack
Co Ltd, Chemicals (Qld.) Pty Ltd, Victor
Leggo and Farmers Ltd, N. N. McLean
Pty Ltd, Jaques Pty Ltd, J. G. Denson
Pty Ltd, Sayers Allport Pty Ltd, Feed
Service (Aust.) Pty Ltd, Arthur J. Gallo-
way Pty Ltd, Camellia Chemical Co Pty
Ltd and Camellia Weed Control Pty
Ltd, Wagga Depot Pty Ltd, Tasmanian
Merchants Pty Ltd, and Tasmanian
Chemicals Pty Ltd.
Management obviously was fully occu-
pied in digesting these acquisitions, and
faced, in the directors’ words, an


A.W.A.
t
Par
Value
Price
Last
Sale,
19G1
s
26/3/62
"\
2/4/02
Div.
Rate
p.c.
Div.
Yield
p.c.
Earn.
Rate
p.c.
Earn.
Yield
p.c.
5/-
20/41
21/6
20/-
14
3.5
22
5.5
Ampol
5/-
11/4
12/4
12/3
14
5.7
19
7.8
Ansett
5/-
5/3
5/2
4/11*
10
9.8
17
17.0
Australian Chemicals
10/-
30/4 J
32/-
30/—-f
12*
4.2
21.5
7.2
A.C.I. Contribs.
20/-
72/GXR
75/—
57/—
72/9t
55/—
84
2.3
19.3
5.3
A.G.C.
5/-
14/-
12/6
12/lit
15
6.1
20.3
9.1
Bank N.S.W.
£20
£34
£ 37
9
4.8
12.2
Bitumen and Oil
. .
5/-
24/-
27/9
26/6
171
3.3
32.4
6.1
■Bradford Cotton
•5/-
7/6
7/1
7/3f
10
6.9
11.2
7.7
B.H.P.
20/-
69/-
64/9
G2/6
64
2.0
15.5
5.0
C.S.R.
£20
£59/10/-
£57
£55*
9
3.2
12.4
4.5
David Jones
5/-
18/9
20/-
19/9
121
3.2
28.7
7.3
Elder Smith
12/-
23/9
26/6
26/3f
10
4.5
12.6
5.8
E.Z. Industries
10/-
12/11
14/-
13/9
10
7.4
12.4
9.0
G. J. Coles . .
5/-
13/6
14/1
13/11
11
3.9
14.8
5.3
I.C.I.A.N.Z.
20/-
38/-
43/6
43/9f
7
3.2
9.7
4.5
Kandos Cement
5/-
—
21/9
22/-
12*
2.8
13.5
3.1
Mount Isa
5/-
71/6
73/-
73/6f
25
1.7
62.3
4.2
Ready Mixed
5/-
17/44
17/9
17/9
12*
3.5
22.9
6.4
Tooth and Co..
20/-
60/-
* Ex-dividend.
65/6
f Mid.
03/—
price.
13*
4.2
15.9
5.0
Year
Net
Deprecia-
Ea ruing
Old.
t Ordinary Shares \
Last Div.
Company
Ended
Profit
Tax
tion
Rate
Div.
Par Sale Yield
Hume Indust. (Far East)
31/12/61
£
118,7.30
£
78,684
£
79,126
«/a
p.c.
12.4
p.c.
7.8
Value Price p.c.
Not quoted.
Jeffries Industries
30/11/61
S6,850
58,350
n/a
15
5/- 16/3 4.6
Lombard (Australia)
31/12/61
Loss.
81,156
24,945
11,536
No longer quoted.
McDonnell and East
31/1/61
87,564
61,400
23,407
20.9
124
20/- 63/- 4.0
Newstead South Holdings
31/12/61
38,100
20,850
4,180
9.5
74
20/- 27/- 5.6
Preston Motors
31/12/61
175,800
110,551
53,514
31.0
174
5/- 17/- 5.1
Winns (Newcastle)
28/2/62
50,567
35,000
14,417
17.1
10
5/- 14/- 3.6
unusually large crop of production,
marketing and staff problems. “An in-
tense programme of consolidation, re-
organisation and integration has been
carried out, and is continuing.”
It is a tribute to managerial com-
petence that in the case of each addition
to the group, profit rate was increased.
As the organisation has so radically
changed over the year, comparisons with
1961 are largely meaningless.
Indications of the change are the
growth in paid capital from £536,493
to £1,648,055, in total funds employed
from £804,344 to £2,104,786, and in fixed
assets from £312,739 to £1,289,429.
Sales of the group for the two open-
ing months of 1962 were reported as
showing appreciable increases. On the
other hand, further reorganisation is
expected to reduce expenses, so that a
solid lift in profits could be expected.
Directors said “excellent progress” had
been made in the export department,
and earnings would probably rise sub-
stantially in the current year.
Profit of £329,307, after tax provision
of £186,109 and depreciation £37,345,
represents an earning rate of 21.5 p.c.
on ord. cap. Theoretical working capital
appears at a healthy level of £1,017,411.
A new factory in Queensland is classed
as a major addition this year and greater
factory space is being provided currently
at Bankstown (NSW) and Burnley (Vic.).
Freehold property appears in the
books (at cost on valuation) £954,153,
almost unencumbered.
There are no preference shares, nor
long-term liabilities. An item of £200,000
unsecured p.c. notes due for repay-
ment in 1966 is classed as “deferred.”
The co. could finance its growth from
internal resources, and raise a con-
siderable amount of fixed capital before
it would be necessary to approach share-
holders for funds.
The ss. ords were last fetching 17s. 9d.
each, making the immediate return
3.5 p.c. on the basis of the 124 p.c. annual
dividend.
BROKERS IN MERGERS
Two old-established Melbourne stock
broking firms are linking with larger
and more progressive firms.
J. E. Martin, Head and Co. has merged
with Leonard G. May and Son, whose
name will be retained.
W. J. Forster Woods and Co’s two
partners, J. L. Daish and D. Cameron,
will move across to Guest and Bell.
More mergers may be expected as
brokers strive to cope with Melbourne’s
new streamlined facilities.
LEADING SHARE PRICES
COMPANY RESULTS
EXCHANGE RATES (T/T)
AUSTRALIA ON
LONDON
£A to £stgloo .. .. 125
NEW ZEALAND
£ A to £ NZIOO 124
USA
$1 to £AI 2.2533
BELGIUM
Francs to £AI 112.78
FRANCE
New Francs to £AI .. .. 11.080
ITALY
Lire to £AI .. .. .. 1406
JAPAN
Yen to £AI 813.2
SWITZERLAND
Francs to £AI .. .. .. 9.817
WEST GERMANY
DM to £AI 9.044
HONG KONG
Pence Australia to $1 HK .. 18 9/16
SHAREMARKET TONE
HThe market opened this week with
signs of continuing weakness.
Although banks and the pastorals
firmed slightly, the “other finance” sec-
tion of the index, base metals and re-
tailers, dropped several points. Overall
the index of all ordinary shares slipped
to within cooee of opening levels for
1962.
Trading on Monday last was the
lightest for about two months, and it
wasn’t because of alternative support
for the oil market.
A.O.G. fell heavily, due to strong
buyer resistance; and other oils con-
tinued to weaken.
M.L.C. ASSURANCE
BONUS RATES LIFTED
r J”HE Mutual Life and Citizens’ Assur-
ance Company Ltd has announced
the formation of a holding company,
M.L.C. Ltd with a nominal capital of
£sm. in 20s. shares of which £3m. will
be issued to shareholders in the present
co. on a three-for-one basis. This gives
shareholders an effective two-for-one
bonus. M.L.C. Ltd, incorporated in Can-
berra, will seek official listing. Compound
bonus rates were again raised and “a
record £15,550,000 is being added to par-
ticipating policies” in 1961. Sums assured
now exceed £7Bsm.
STEAMSHIPS TRADING
TAKEOVER SECRECY
A Rbitrary and unexplained behavior
by single directors or boards is to
be condemned, especially Mr Stanley
Korman’s crude blatancy with the Stan-
hill group. It is depressing when a
thoroughly respectable company like
Steamships Trading has to be called into
line.
Steamships announced receipt and con-
sideration of an unnamed takeover offer,


upon which the shares shot up over a day
or two. Sudden withdrawal plummeted
prices downwards.
The bare minimum requires disclosure
of the bid’s prime conditions and reasons
for the bidder’s retirement. And we don’t
want the beginnings of another P. C.
Grosser affair, please.
V.W.
A. G. HEALING LTD
LINK WITH PHILCO
A . G. Healing Ltd has acquired sole
distribution rights for domestic
refrigerators, deepfreezers, washing
machines and radio and television sets
produced by Philco Corporation of
America and its subsidiaries, Crosley and
Bendix.
AUST. PORTLAND CEMENT
NOTES ISSUE RUSHED
nPHE Australian Portland Cement
Group’s issue of £1,500,000 1\ per
cent, registered unsecured notes opened
and closed in minutes.
The group is now well on its way to
getting the £5 million required to finance
its current expansion.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN
EXHIBITING AT OSAKA
A Holden Special sedan, auto spares
and re-conditioning equipment will
be among the Australian exhibits at the
Fifth International Trade Fair, Os.ika,
Japan. The 21-day fair, opening on April
21, has attracted 100 Australian firms.
The automotive and allied industry
exhibitors include General Motors-
Holden’s Pty Ltd —Holden Special sedan;
Repco Export Co. Pty Ltd—auto spares
and re-conditioning equipment; and Rox
Manufacturing Pty Ltd —grease guns,
petrol and oil pumps.
JAPANESE TOOLS SHOW
'T'he Japan Trade Centre in Pitt
A Street, Sydney, is currently staging
a Machine Tools Exhibition until April
12.
Working models of lathes and milling
and boring machines are on display.
There has been a remarkable growth
in Japan’s production of transfer
machines, multiaxes and multidirection
machines.
The exhibition will be an eye-opener
on the capacity of Japanese industry as
a source of equipment for local manu-
facture.
ONE TO BUY
W. WATSON & SONS LTD
A business which earned no more than
£26,000 in any one year from 1937
to 1957 seems nothing to get excited
about. And W. Watson and Sons Ltd,
established in 1889, and operating as a
manufacturer and distributor of electro-
medical, x-ray and surgical equipment
throughout Australia and New Zealand,
had done just that.
The co., the holding co. for the Watson
Victor group, was modest about its dis-
closures to shareholders, but produced a
one-for-one bonus from assets revalua-
tion in December, 1950. In 1952, a one-
for-four par issue was made, without
affecting the co.’s ability to hold the
equally modest 6 p.c. dividend. Then in
1958 the first consolidated accounts re-
vealed a jump in profit from the £25,243
of 1957 to £40,315, and shareholders were
encouraged with an increase in dividend
to 8 p.c.
Disclosed profits in the following years
were £67,031 (1959), £78,213 (1960) and
£72,078 in the year to June 30, 1961.
Profit would have been greater in 1960-
61 but for a disastrous fire which inter-
rupted business. But the new premises
will provide better facilities.
The dividend rate has moved up in
accordance with the profits, and share-
holders received 10 p.c. in 1959, and 12i
p.c., including 2j p.c. bonus, in the last
two years. The last earning rate was
22.4 p.c. on ord. capital after allowing
for pref. charges.
As a substitute for bank accommoda-
tion for the £260,000 increase in stock
and book debts in the last financial year,
directors decided to call on shareholders
for capital, and an ir>ue of one-for-four
shares or notes held was made in October
last.
The solid foundation of the business
is the provision of medical and surgical
apparatus and equipment, but the growth
element is the increasing application of
scientific instrumentation and process
control to the expanding primary and
secondary industries of Australia and
New Zealand. In 1960 the co. extended
into the wholesale photographic business,
and, despite economic restrictions, man-
aged to make a profit. Last year about
15 p.c. of factory production was exported
to New Zealand, South Africa and Pacific
areas, successfully competing with world-
famous manufacturers.
A 50 p.c. increase in income within
four years, and capital growth by way
of convertible notes and an ord. share
issue, should satisfy the most critical
analyst.
The ss. ord. shares selling around
14s. 9d. give a yield of 4.2 p.c. assuming
an unchanged p.c. div. (usually 5 p.c.
interim and 1\ p.c. final). There should
be a 3d. div. difference between the old
and the new fully paids, uncil the interim
dividend is out of the way on May 1.
However, these last sold slightly cheaper
at around 14s. 3d., while the contribs paid
to 2s. 6d. capital and with 3s. 9d. to pay
(including Is. 3d. premium) were available
early this week at about 10s. Id. in Sydney
and Melbourne.
Until the contribs are fully paid on or
before June 30, there may be a certain
weakness in the shares ; but this is purely
technical, and purchases at around cur-
rent prices should give little cause for
regret in later months.
OIL AND MINING
JUMPY TIME FOR A.O.G. SHARES
Success follows success at Moonie, and,
despite the many invitations from
finance writers to sell A.O.G. shares,
holders show a reluctance to listen to
rationalisations about probable profits,
prospective earnings yields and so on.
For all the considerable cost of proving
a commercial reservoir at Moonie, of
then developing the field and ultimately
getting the crude to refineries, A.O.G.
shareholders can say with conviction :
“So far, so very, very good.”
To have found flow oil in two holes
out of the first three drilled in the area
and in one of these to have found
it at two levels with prodigious flow
rates from both would be held a re-
markable wild-catting achievement even
in Arabia.
The next phase at Moonie will be to
drill five miles away from Moonie No. 2;
so obviously from now on drilling to
prove the extent of the field could be
studded with disappointment in a num-
ber of dry holes. The more so if site
selecting is as adventuresome as it should
be.
One would have thought that at this
stage the Union-Kern-A.O.G. group
would put the next well down some-
what closer to the two others and at
the same time double up by also drilling
further afield.
But maybe it sees no hurry to get to
the stage of drilling for production,
since presumably that would throw open
slices of their permit area to reallocation
by the Queensland Mines Department.
There could be a conflict between
national and commercial interests here.
So looking ahead to events as they
will probably unfold under calculated
commercial direction at Moonie, there
may be a very jumpy time ahead for
A.O.G. shareholders, especially for those
not used to playing the waiting game.
Failing investors here holding fast in
the coming proving period, the course of
prices could more and more be dictated


tk
la
m
(Incorporated in England)
Head Office for Australia:
473-481 BOURKE ST.
MELBOURNE
Branches throughout Australia
•
We can help you in all your
INSURANCE PROBLEMS
FIRE LIFE
ACCIDENT MARINE
A telephone call will
bring immediate service.
MELBOURNE
67-8921
SYDNEY
27-2024
E 52.43
by overseas investors well versed in
the vagaries of oil search.
Hopeful expectancy of discoveries in
many far-flung permit areas is currently
defying the law of probability, despite
many oil experts’ thinking before its
strike that Union had little better than
Kelly’s chance of finding oil in its area
west of Brisbane.
However, the main point about this
is that Moonie has raised the share price
floor for all oil search companies, because
of its proving that flow oil is present in
Australia and has been discovered in
a rather unlikely place.
T)ulletin readers over the years will be
familiar with the views of the late.
Lancelot Owen, long the journal’s special
writer on oil, who held the theory that
as a result of severe folding of rock
structures, oil in Australia is likely to
have migrated long distances from its
original source beds. It can be argued
from this that even wild cats operating
beyond acknowledged sedimentary basins
stand as good a chance as any of find-
ing oil.
The only missing link in this theory
was that, apart from the fluke find at
Rough Range in 1953, there had never
been a strike of flow oil on the con-
tinent, and it was possible, as Owen
conceded, that it may all have escaped
through rock fractures in post-Triassic
periods.
Moonie tells us that it didn’t ; that
some at least has been blocked by cap
rocks. Thus the whole search has been
lifted on to a truly realistic plane.
Whether the companies operating on
permit areas nearest to Moonie have any
better chances than others of finding
oil is anybody’s guess. Probably they
can be rated higher, but it is significant,
for instance, that so many wells drilled
in the A.A.O. group’s permit areas have
been drilled to basement and have found
only natural gas. It could be that prices
of shares in this group have been pushed
higher than the probabilities warrant:
J. C. HORSFALL
THE FINAL ARBITER
At the outset, heartiest congratulations
to Union, Kern and A.0.G., and
especially to Union, the operating com-
pany, for finding what appears to be the
first significant production in Australia.
Union’s exploration thinking has been
brilliantly vindicated, but it should always
be borne in mind that in oil exploration
there is no guarantee of success, despite
the latest techniques and despite favor-
able preliminary indications. The final
arbiter is always the drill, followed, of
course, by the inevitable soul-searching
process of evaluating the economic poten-
tial of the field.
The Moonie discovery constitutes a
veritable “breakthrough” for Australian
geology—the end of a mental block that
positively inhibited confident explora-
tion and stifled imaginative geological
thinking.
But it would be wise to caution against
excessive exuberance at this stage and
remember the injunction of the big game
hunter to “look for elephants in elephant
country.”
I would endorse and expand the re-
marks made recently in these columns by
“Croesus” that investors and oil finders
have only the light of Moonie to guide
them in what otherwise, apart from the
Associated Group's significant gas finds
in the Roma area, is still virtually pitch
darkness.
HThis topic brings us to discuss the con-
cept of the “petroleum province,” a
term used by petroleum geologists to
designate a restricted geological area
where oil or gas has actually been en-
countered by the drill. The chances of
finding commercial production are much
more favorable in such a petroleum pro-
vince than in a virgin sedimentary basin.
This is merely another way of expressing
the well-known military maxim that it is
better to exploit success than to reinforce
failure.
It is reasons such as these, and con-
siderations like the distance of possible
future oil fields from the seaboard and
from potenfial markets, that lead one to
expect further developments in oil search
to come from the known areas rather
than from unknown territory.
The Moonie-Cabawin finds may be, in
fact, part of a much more extensive oil
“play” or “trend” that is closely related
to the geography of this area in the dis-
tant geological past. This trend may, for
example, reflect the transition from essen-
tially marine sedimentation to a non-
marine type of sedimentation.
The sympathetic appreciation of the
stock of other oil exploration companies
is very difficult to explain on any other
basis than the purely psychological. It
may well be, however, that if the geo-
logical processes for the search for oil
are not short-circuited in an attempt to
achieve quick and spectacular results,
these companies will play an important
role in the elucidation of the subsurface
geology and even, perhaps, in the process
find petroleum reserves for Australia's
strategic and economic needs.
T est it be charged that this is an unduly
pessimistic approach. 1 hasten to re-
affirm my optimism about the ultimate-
results of the search for oil in Australia.
However, I feel it my duty to remind
investors and the general reader that oil
is very much a minority fluid in the sub-
surface, and to caution them against the
uncritical optimism of certain corres-
pondents who see Australia, as it were,
floating on a sea of oil.
In conclusion, here is a list of what
seem to me to be the more favorable oil
and gas prospects in Australia as they
appear at this juncture:
1. Surat Basin and adjacent areas.
2. Western Australian basins, especi-
ally the Carnarvon and the Fitzroy.
3. Otway and Gippsland basins of
Victoria.
4. Other oil and gas prospects close
to industrial and metropolitan markets.
JOHN C. CAMERON


MAN
LAND
UNITED KINGDOM
CHANGING MARKET FOR LAMB
By M. H. ELLIS
'ITI/ith Australians eating about four-
fifths of their own meat production
and lamb a fashionable dish, lamb export
is no longer what it was ; it has become
a quality trade.
Up to 1940 New South Wales alone
exported as many carcasses, and Victoria
at least twice as many, as were sent
abroad from the whole Commonwealth
last year to all destinations.
Over the past few years the export
figures have varied very much. In the
record war year of 1941, seven million
carcasses were shipped and immediately
before the war the annual range was in
the vicinity of five million.
In 1961 it was only 1,236,000, and of
these Victoria sent half and the sub-
clover lands of South Australia and
Western Australia another 500,000. New
South Wales has almost ceased to be a
lamb-exporting State.
The essential in the lamb-selling busi-
ness abroad—nearly all goes to the
United Kingdom—is not the sale of more
lambs, because not many more are avail-
able under present conditions. It is the
sale of all the lambs we can export as a
seasonal speciality commanding a high
price commensurate with "he high cost
of production and export.
The real danger to our limited lamb
export trade is that New Zealand, which
has an all-the-year-round supply, will so
saturate the market that prices of lamb
will fall to a level uneconomic to Aus-
tralian producers—a factor which would
affect not only the lamb industry but the
wool industry in many districts.
In these circumstances, the Australian
Meat Council is aiming to develop in
the United Kingdom a lamb trade based
on specially high quality commanding
specialist prices.
Prices for Australian lamb at the
maximum have recently been 14d. !b
below those of best New Zealand lamb,
and this position has to be considered in
relation to the fact that there is a guar-
anteed price for exports of Australian
meat, price deficiencies being met by
the United Kingdom.
The extent of the lamb subsidies is
governed by these payments. Any regular
level of prices which falls below the
guaranteed price menaces the ultimate
stability of the trade.
This year not only was the Australian
trade feeling the pressure of shipments
from elsewhere, but the lamb trade in
general in Britain was suffering through
the upsurge of the broiler industry. The
broiler undoubtedly was eating into the
retail lamb sales, and British butchers
were hitching up their aprons to do
battle with the poultry industry.
A few years ago, to mention Aus-
tralian lamb in the United Kingdom
was equivalent to mentioning poor
grade lamb, sold only to buyers who
could not afford any other
But the outlook has changed con-
siderably with the limitation of exports
of Australian lamb, and so far from the
potentialities of our lamb bleeding being
limited to poor qualities, it has begun
to reach out for the world's highest
levels, both in producing and selling
technique, and is establishing standards
which many another export industry
could copy with advantage.
Governments have co-operated, though
not so much in keeping down costs as
in subsidising them.
High cost of establishment on suitable
land is becoming a bugbear which is not
compensated for by the facilities now
provided in the matter of good roads,
water supplies and the bounty provided
through guaranteed prices—2s. per
spring lamb exported to the United
Kingdom or three-farthings a pound for
piece lamb.
This bounty applies to spring lamb
delivered into store before April 28
next —after which there will be reap-
praisement—and subsequently exported
to the UK. It is not payable on summer
lamb. The export of this class of lamb to
the UK has wisely been eliminated.
The British market for Australian
lamb is being sedulously nurtured as a
specialist high quality market and the
Meat Board is working with an eye on
the establishment of reputation and
seasonal continuity of supply rather than
on expansion of sales which may come
later when the demand becomes insistent
and the lamb-growing areas are extended
with the availability of Snowy Moun-
tains water in the new closer settlement
kingdom along the Murray River and
in the spreading sub-clover districts else-
where.
From now onwards Australian lambs
marketed in England will be largely
Dorset Horn and Border Leicester, two
breeds which are adaptable to Australian
methods in the lamb-producing areas
where the winter is mild and the spring
warm and sunny.
Every lamb sold in England from
Australian pastures will be straight
from its mother, milk-topped, quickly
grown, marketed at not less than 10
and not more than 16 weeks old. All will
be carefully graded, uniform, the new
season’s production. Full advantage will
be taken of the brief season during which
full supplies of the ideal animal are
available.
As a pipe-opener to the new era the
Australian Meat Board organised in the
United Kingdom a promotion exercise
which would have made retailers ac-
customed to our earlier slap-dash methods
open their eyes wide.
It followed on the excellent advertise-
ment for Australian lamb, produced by
the fact that the champion lamb carcass
at the Royal Smithfield Show of 1960
was sired by a ram imported from Aus-
tralia.
The campaign was unique. It was
launched in January with the aid of TV
and the Press. Australian lamb was made
available in more than 1000 retail shops
throughout the Kingdom, labelled Aus-
tralian and sold out of windows carrying
the banner: Choice Australian Spring
Lamb.”
Some chains of butchers’ shops, 100
and more strong, right up to Baxters’
who have 400 shops in various parts of
the UK, co-operated to the full.
Many sold Australian lamb as the
exclusive imported line during the pro-
motion week.
At the end of the week virtually the
whole of the season’s supply had either
gone to consumers or passed to the re-
tail trade for sale.


Quality
/
— Aust
•alian Averages in
Opening
Pence
Closing
Classification
Week
Week
Week
Week
Week
Centres Selling
Bradford
Ended
Ended
1961-62
1960-61
Ended
Week Ended
Standard
30/3/62
Cliange
23/3/62
7/7/61
30/6/61
24/3/01
30
Bris.
/ 3/62
Melb
Combing—
d.
d.
d.
d.
d.
d.
d.
d.
70’s Good
127
+ 1
126
1 22*
125*
115*
—
Average
123
+ 1
122
117
120
110
124
—
64’s Good ..
121
+ 1
120
114*
117*
107
120
121
Average ..
117
+ 1
116
109
112
100
117
117
60’s Good
107
+ 1
106
104
108*
101
—
107
Average
105
+ 1
104
101
104
100
105
104
58’s Good ..
96
par
96
97
101*
94
—
97
Average
94
par
94
95
98
93
—
95
56’s Good
92
par
92
95*
97*
91
—
93
Average
90
pa r
90
92*
94
90
—
91
50’s Good
84
par
84
92*
93*
87
—
84
Average
Carding—
81
par
81
90*
91*
86
—
81
Merino ..
49
—i
50
49
48
55
49
49
Comeback
48
par
4S
49
48
53
—
47
Fine Crossbred ..
48
+i
47
51 *
51
55
—
48
Med. Crossbred..
48
—1 49 52*
* Nominal.
Sales next week: Sydney,
52
Geelong.
57
48
BUTTER....A STICKY PROBLEM
By RON ANDERSON
TPhe Australian Dairy Produce Board
A is not to be envied at the moment.
On top of its very real Common Market
worries, the board has now been handed
an extra 45,0001 b of butter to sell
butter displaced from the United King-
dom by recently-announced quotas.
The problem is a sticky one and the
more one delves into it the stickier it
becomes.
It all harks back to the fact that for
years the UK has been the world's only
major unrestricted market for butter.
In recent years this has made the UK
the prime target for the surplus produc-
tion of expanding dairy industries in
many European countries. At times the
market has been flooded, and over a
period prices have tumbled to un-
economic levels.
Even Australia and New Zealand,
traditional butter suppliers to the UK,
have found themselves selling far below
their cost of production.
The position became so chaotic that
Britain was forced to legislate against
butter dumping the selling of butter
abroad at a lower price than at home.
She said countries which did this would
face quotas in Britain, or would find their
butter barred.
The legislation was aimed at countries
such as Poland and Eire many of
them with heavy subsidies boosting dairy
production.
New Zealand, heavily dependent on her
UK butter sales, kept urging Britain to
invoke the anti-dumping Act. This was
done, and Australia which charges
ss. a lb for butter at home and sells in
Britain for about half that was lucky
to escape being named a “dumper.”
Last year we weren’t so lucky. At a
conference called under the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, Aus-
tralia and all other countries exporting
butter to Britain except New Zealand
were labelled dumpers and forced to
agree to “voluntary” quotas for the six
months Sept. 1961 to March, 1962.
Australia’s quota was 41,300 tons a
not unreasonable figure on the basis of
average exports over lecent years, but a
dangerously low one in a year of heavy
dairy production such as 1961-62.
All the Australian Dairy Produce
Board could do was to hope the quota
would be eased or removed after March;
meanwhile looking around hopefully for
new markets.
With most other exporting countries
similarly affected by the British quotas
and alternative markets almost non-
existent, the board's chances appeared
slim.
The one bright spot was the unaccus-
tomed stability the quotas brought to
the UK butter market. The price of Aus-
tralian butter actually rose from 2475.
sterling a cwt to 2825. and has held
the higher level ever since.
Now Britain has announced quotas for
the 12 months April 1, 1962 to March
31, 1963. Australia’s share of the mar-
ket, based on her sales over the last
seven years, is 62,000 tons.
Our sales in Britain in 1961-62 are
estimated to total about 68,000 tons. In
previous years they have been 49,000 tons,
60,000 tons, 68,000 tons, 43,000 tons and
61,000 tons. But this season, favorable
climatic condition's have boosted butter
production to more than 200,000 tons and
a figure almost as high is expected again
next season.
As Australia consumes 115,000 tons a
year, and markets other than Britain
absorb only 10,000 tons a year, Australia
will be left with a surplus of at least
20,000 tons (or 45 million lib packets of
butter) during the 12-month period of
the British quota.
New Zealand, on the other hand,
hasn’t come out of the quota talks badly.
She expected to have 160,000 tons of
butter for shipment to Britain and has
received a quota of 156,000 tons. Her
displacement is therefore only 4000 tons.
is Australia to do with its
apparently unsaleable surplus?
The Dairy Board is playing its cards
quietly and has refused to reveal its
plans although it says it does not ex-
pect to have to dump any of the butter.
In fact, it hopes to sell the lot “at a
price.”
The board could, of course, cool store
the 20,000 tons surplus and hope for some
improvement in the market next year.
But this would be merely delaying the
moment of decision and could create
a hazardous situation if we were caught
with another big surplus next season.
Rumor says that the board’s plans,
if they come to fruition, will dispose of
most of the surplus. It appears likely,
however, that the surplus production will
not all be sold in the form of butter.
And Australian dairy farmers are al-
most certain to have to accept lower
returns.
So far there is no hint that a home
price drop is included in the “secret”
plans. A price drop, although it would
probably halt at least temporarily
declining Australian butter consumption,
would be violently opposed within the
dairy industry.
TOBACCO LEAF
MAREEBA AUCTION SALES
TThe Minister for Primary Industry,
-*• Mr C. F. Adermann, said
that 1600 short tons of tobacco
leaf were sold for £2m. during the first
series of the 1962 auction sales at
Mareeba, North Queensland. The
average price realised was 150 d. a pound.
However, about 10 p.c. of all the leaf
offered did not attract buyers because of
its unsuitable quality. This is disappoint-
ing as the Mareeba-Dimbulah area is
generally considered suitable for growing
good quality leaf.
Mr Adermann felt that the average
price for the leaf sold “must be regarded
as very satisfactory.” He added that the
current estimate of total Australian
tobacco leaf production this season in
Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria
and Western Australia was 13,125 short
tons.
Leaf auctions will continue in the
various State selling centres in turn until
next September.
WEEKLY AVERAGE CLEAN WOOL PRICES
Australian Wool Bureau


REVIEWS
MUSIC
SARGENT WITHOUT DISCIPLINE
London Philharmonic Orchestra. Mel-
bourne.
Yehudi Menuhin. Melbourne.
Oir Malcolm Sargent’s remarks on
the manners of Melbourne concert-
goers were probably accurate enough,
but what surprised me was not the few
who came late but the many who did
not come at all. I took time off during an
indifferent moment of de Falla to observe
that one typical block of the hall, a block
of 144 seats, held only 34 listeners.
Impudent insularity, someone called
this. Perhaps it was; though you could
make out a case for the absence of
many listeners on the grounds of dis-
cernment. The orchestra’s programmes
were hardly designed to draw people
who are, after all, used to hearing stan-
dard orchestral music. No orchestra need
travel thousands of miles to let us hear
the trivial “Classical Symphony” of Prok-
ofiev or the lovely C major symphony
of Schubert, let alone the Second Sym-
phony of Brahms.
The. inference was that we should go
to hear performances and not music,
and many seasoned listeners, who travel
themselves, are not prepared to do this.
The managers of the tour might have
done better to gamble on the orchestra’s
traditional strength, and to programme
more major English works. The chance
of a local premiere of Elgar’s “Falstaff”
seemed a promising one, and it could
have been a memorable experience to
hear Sargent and the L.P.O. in either
of the two Elgar symphonies.
Easily the best of the performances we
did hear was given by John Pritchard in
the Second Symphony of Walton, a work
which he conducted for the first time
some two years ago. This proved ex-
citing and highly interesting music, mag-
nificently played. It would be inept to
say that, after a silence of twenty-five
years, this music fulfilled the promise
of the First Symphony; but it certainly
confounded those who have suspected
that Walton had written himself out.
Nor does he drily repeat and rewrite
his earlier work. The compact and beauti-
fully organised first movement of this
new symphony, more subtle in organ-
isation though metrically simpler than
anything in the Bb minor Symphony,
should ensure its survival in a time when
only the Americans seem to be writing
any symphonic music at all. The slow
movement looks back over the years.
Obviously the work of a man of long
experience, it does not match the dramatic
challenge of the opening movement. It
is richly and warmly romantic, and
broadly echoes the opulent directness
of statement which is the strength of the
Elgar symphonies.
Only in the short finale is there any
falling-off, for here the ostensible pass-
acaglia form (more nearly a theme with
variations) seems an obvious contrivance.
The pattern is filled out with spiky
juggling in Walton’s manner of the thir-
ties, but the sense of purpose which
integrated this kind of movement then
is absent.
Sargent’s final concert, on the following
night, was something of a disappoint-
ment. Where he might have shone, in the
Introduction and Allegro of Elgar, he
was at the same time slack and over-de-
monstrative. And while the instrumental
playing in the “Great C major Sym-
phony” of Schubert was very satisfying,
the orchestral precision and dynamics
were both surprisingly poor. More than
once the alignment of the different or-
chestral sections was faulty, and Sargent
seemed to have taken little trouble to
balance the dynamics of any section into
the context of the hall. There was never
a true piano, and the bass and lower
lines were continually furred by the
loudness of the rest of the orchestra, the
brass in particular. In fact it was only in
the Prokofiev that the orchestra approach-
ed the excellence it had shown under
Pritchard in the Walton.
The other major event of an unusually
full month was the performance by
Yehudi Menuhin of the Violin Concerto
of Elgar. I suppose most of his listeners
would be unable to resist the association
Menuhin has with this music, which he
played and recorded so superbly under
Elgar’s conductorship almost thirty years
ago. This performance, with the Vic-
torian Symphony Orchestra under Henry
Krips, was more romantic and less ath-
letic Elgar had a distaste, which clear-
ly appears if we compare his own read-
ing of the Eb Symphony with Boult’s,
for underlining the moments of greatest
tenderness in his own music. Krips was
not so constrained, and his sympathy
with Menuhin’s approach gave us a per-
formance of a calibre seldom encounter-
ed in an average orchestral season.
KENNETH HINCE
ADELAIDE ARTS FESTIVAL
WHERE WERE THE AMIABLE YAHOOS?
A s the visitors depart and the citizens
of Adelaide, groaning faintly, look
forward to a few nights of unaccustomed
sleep, the certitude remains that
Adelaide’s Festival of Arts is more firmly
established than its original promoters
could have dared to hope. And even on
the lowest financial level the Festival has
dealt another blow to that national
image of the Australian as the amiable
yahoo ; it has proved yet again that the
Australian does not reach for his gun
when he hears the word culture. Instead,
he pays for seats (by no means cheap) to
hear Menuhin or Brubeck, queues to
see art shows and even turns up to listen
to poets reading their works by the banks
of the Torrens.
It is clear from the comments of
hundreds of visitors that it has been
worth coming to Adelaide for all this.
Though many of the attractions have
been or are going to other States, there
has been an added zest in having them
all together, and in giving some of the
celebrities, Menuhin for example, time
to grow into the place and be more than
a passing comet. Similarly, the gather-
ing of writers for Writers’ Week, and of
playwrights and theatre people for the


Established 1808 in Reign o)
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
N.S. IF. Branch:
Kindersley House,
Biig-li O’Connell Sts., Sydney
UNESCO Conference on Playwriting, has
produced a lot more benefit than the
airing of opinions at meetings. Some-
thing is bound to happen when you
gather together spirits as lively as Mary
Durack, Bill Harney, Olaf
Xavier Herbert (yes, together, positively
embracing at the end!), Chris Wallace-
Crabbe and Max Harris, to name just
a sprinkling from the various States. The
final social evening of the Writers' Week
was a wow of a party, given a final eclat
well after midnight by the arrival of
members of the C.L.F. Advisory Board,
by which time several famous enemies
were radiating goodwill. Of course, a
breaking-down of the old-time literary
feuds may lead to too much sweetness
and not enough light.
To return to the financial level, the
Festival has proved either that art is
essential, not a luxury, or that it is a
luxury which Australians can now
afford. Every major programme has been
solidly booked out (though the inefficient
booking arrangements have been heavily
under fire) and outside halls and theatres
there have been groups of people plain-
tively asking the producer whether there
isn’t a spare seat somewhere.
Undoubtedly the dominating person-
ality in the arts has been Yehudi
Menuhin, who has not only excelled him-
self as a violinist but has worked cease-
lessly through many programmes as a
conductor or general welder-together.
Menuhin is at the opposite extreme of
artistic temperament from the singer Ana
Raquel Satre. who performs in the Callas
tradition. He and his sister Hepzibah are
on the stage but it is the music that is in
the limelight, and indeed some Adelaide
critics slated Hepzibah for “icy brilliance”
when in fact her utter impassivity was
only lending further authority to the
music. Menuhin himself was more like
a priest than a performer, he was as
much as his violin an instrument of a
greater force. As a conductor of the
Festival Players he was quite different,
obviously letting go and enjoying himself.
As well as these great names, and the
grand public functions, the Festival has
aiso provided a number of intimate
occasions. The very nature of Adelaide
as a city has helped this intimacy, which
on a wider level has involved a sense of
corporate belonging that would be
impossible in the huge sprawl of Sydney
or Melbourne. Those who have been
heard nervously wondering what will
happen to the Adelaide Festival if Mel-
bourne launches a similar affair need
worry no more than Edinburgh does
about London. Apart from the possi-
bility that Melbourne, being what it is,
would make a grey old mess of it, only
a small city like Adelaide can make a
coherent job of a Festival. Adelaide is
helped by its town plan, with the
city compactly enclosed by the parks
which could be used to even more advan-
tage next time. It is an incomparable
advantage that the Bonython Hall
(“St Joan”), the Union Hall (“J.8.”) and
the Elder Hall (various concerts) are all
within a few yards of each other inside
the University, and the Town Hall or
Elder Park are only a short walk away.
The only snag has been the dreary Cen-
tennial Hall (London Philharmonic
Orchestra, Menuhins, Brubeck and so on)
which is a long way away and in a
dismal setting. But it looks as if even
the most culture-proof South Australians
are being forced to wake up to the fact
that a Festival Hall in Victoria Square or
by the banks of the Torrens is essential
to the character of the city as it has
developed (as well as being a paying
proposition).
The biggest row triggered off by the
Festival has been the inability of the
Commonwealth Art Show to measure up
to the Tate Gallery’s requirements. (This
of course casts no discredit on the Festi-
val organisers, who had nothing to do
with assembling the exhibition, except in
so far as Robert Campbell, Director of the
SA National Gallery, is also on the
Commonwealth Art Advisory Board.
There has been a lot of devious shuffling
going on about this show, but what does
seem clear is that the Tate Gallery wants
primarily contemporary paintings, with a
sprinkling of early and impressionist
works, and also a selection from younger
painters not known in England. Instead,
the exhibition is tilted strongly the other
way. Already the argument has been
twisted, by people who don’t really care
about art at all, into the old battle of
Traditional vs Contemporary, which is
completely irrelevant. Sir John Rothen-
stein’s letter to Albert Tucker states
expressly what he wants ; the present
exhibition will not give it to him.
In the Festival at large the credits due
are legion. Una Hale for her singing in
“Ariadne auf Naxos” ; John Manifold
and the Bandicoots for their programmes
of Australian bush songs ; David Atten-
borough. the naturalist, for providing a
new image of dream-husband for every
South Australian schoolgirl ; Colin
Ballantyne, for his production of
“Volpone” ; Theatres Associated for put-
ting on the one new Australian play,
“Resurrection at Matthewtown,” by
George Landen Dann as a “fringe”
activity. This play, about a gold strike
in a Queensland ghost town, has aroused
only moderate enthusiasm, but most
people are critical of the production
rather than the play. The list could go on.
But it would always have the same end-
ing and theme which is that, given a
chance, Australians will take a Festival of
Arts not for medicine but for pleasure.
GEOFFREY DUTTON.
FILMS
STEREOTYPE
Evidence in Concrete. Savoy. Sydney.
for a first-rate performance by
Gerard Oury, cast in the role of a
wronged husband trying to get even with
his wife and her lover by a series of
pretty conventional psychological tricks,
there is little substance in this sleek French
“whodunit.” The usual ingredients are
there —a sprawled corpse in the opening
scenes, a pretty blonde wife, her rather
unconvincing lover, a series of clande-
stine meetings in a dingy bar operated by
the lover’s ex-mistress, a seedy private
investigator. The pace slackens after a
swift opening and the film begins to drag,
despite a few surprises in the plot.
The disposal of the corpse—-finally en-
tombed in a concrete wall—and of the
vengeful husband blackmailing his wife
into submission and paying for it from
his own pocket are the best scenes in
this very average thriller.
E.B.


ART
SQUARE - TOOTHED COGWHEEL
George Johnson. Argus Gallery. Mel-
bourne.
z''' eorge Johnson is one of Melbourne’s
least-known good painters. He has
exhibited hardly anything for more than
two years, despite the great respect he
earned with his very strict abstractions
Now, in a fine one-man show, he emerges
as a commanding painter. His abstrac-
tion is still as strict and as sharp as ever,
but it is of that rare type which, whilst
sticking to severe limits in shapes and
tonings, offers an apparently limitless
range of variation. The basic figure is a
large, roughly drawn interlocking block,
reminiscent of a square-toothed cog-
wheel, or of crenellations. It is remark-
able to see what Johnson can contrive
to suggest by varying this one figure.
In purely abstract terms the merits of
this painting rest on the solid foundations
of a clearly defined, subtly toned linear
movement, and a most pleasant manipu-
lation of space. This is probably not
enough to recommend the work outside
the closed world of painters and aesthetes,
unless one is prepared to allow a painter
the right to instruct in formal notions of
beauty unenhanced by reference to a
subject. Yet I am sure that, in spite of
the apparent hints of subjects in some of
the paintings, this is their principal aim
and most illuminating lesson. For that
alone they merit study.
If we are to look for values beyond the
formal, we can only respond to what the
paintings evoke, but in a necessarily vague
and tangental way. At this level the paint-
ing has the charm of orderliness and
strength and reflects a love for the vitality
of nature and the vigor of men. The al-
most mechanical figures avoid ever seem-
ing harsh or oppressive because they are
usually enlivened by a free line or an
ample space. By taking the machine for a
ride instead of being crushed up in it.
Johnson has escaped any possible accusa-
tions of borrowing, and made a
stimulating sophisticated contribution to
abstract painting.
BILL HANNAN.
NOT ANGST BUT TIC
Robert Juniper and Thomas Gleghorn.
Skinner Gallery. Perth.
nPHE art “season” has begun here with
x a combined show by Robert Juniper
and Thomas Gleghorn. It’s a slow start.
Juniper’s paintings are all —and as always
—elegant decorative objects, but in many
of them he has attempted an abstract-
expressionist toughness, and the result
has been merely to make his works heavy.
The style does not suit him; there are
very few that it does suit.
The best things are the landscapes, with
gauzy, golden brown distances that re-
mind one of transformation scenes in
pantomimes ; these achieve significant
decoration, and bend pattern to an ex-
pression of emotion. “Landscapes” num-
bers 1,4, 12 and 21, all convey some
complex but ambiguous feeling about the
pieces of country that they derive from,
and they have the authentic smack of
“emotion recollected in tranquillity.”
In these pictures colors are purified,
and objects rearranged to fill space more
decoratively than they do in real life ;
this Oriental re-ordering of the universe
to fit an aesthetic scheme throws a new
light on what we see in our ordinary
moods. The eye becomes for a moment
unsophisticated and uncritical.
Juniper’s medium is decoration ; at its
best it cajoles us into taking a new view
of the world, at its less good it is still
decoration. Decorative pictures are al-
ways preferable to hectoring ones —if less
fashionable—and this brings me to Gleg-
horn.
The largest of the Gleghorns, “Arn-
heim,” has already won two prizes (one in
Perth), and seeing it again I like it less
than before. But it is not as distressing
as its fellows. They are all done to a
formula, and a dull one: “Fill a rectangle
with squiggles, top left; extend a few lines
to bottom left and top right. Fill in with
spatter.” They are presumably some kind
of action paintings, but instead of callig-
raphy they offer us spaghetti, and record
twitches rather than sweeps of the brush.
Abstract expressionism ought to express
something, and its brutal deformations
answer no doubt to some deep malaise
of the Zeitgeist, but Gleghorn’s paintings
here remain on the level of the superficial
symptom ; they give us no insight into the
angst, they merely record the tic.
PATRICK HUTCHINGS
THEATRE
ON THE BARB
At It Again. Phillip Theatre. Sydney.
critics at the opening night of
this remarkable new revue must have
been grateful for the stylish decor and
elegance of the Phillip Theatre to
remind them that they really were not
at the WWF theatre in Sussex Street,
looking at a sharp communist revue of
the state of the nation.
Certainly the script of this latest
William Orr production could have
changed places with the watersiders’
theatre without any embarrassment
rarely has the town seen such a barbed
and politically sharp evening as “At It
Again” provides. So biting was the fare
provided that many first-nighters were
visibly discomfited, and laughter and
applause tended to come from certain
enthusiastic groups rather than the
audience as a whole. The house being
rich with actors proceeds of the
opening went to the Actors’ Benevolent
Fund the many references to unem-
ployment earned magnificent rewards.
Quality of the scripts used in this
Phillip revue is just about the best yet
achieved, although the small cast did
not altogether get the best out of their
material. Gordon Chater did some re-
markably fine work his Japanese
visitor opening a Sukiyaki room at a
Sydney RSL club is required viewing for
all yet here and there he overdoes his
personal mannerisms. Just once or twice
too many times did we get the little
backward kick and the famous snarling
smile. Every distinguished comic has his
trademark, the convention is accepted
by the public, but Mr Chater could
flash his label just a little less for the
greater good of all.
Jill Perryman and Judi Farr did rather
better in this revue than they have of
late, but Kevan Johnston —who was an
utter riot in “Bye Bye Birdie” seemed
not at ease in the quick shift of revue
style, and Ray Taylor, who contributed
some brilliantly funny scripts to the
show, did not seem to have quiet made
up his mind whether he was in the cast
or the audience : he seemed to be in
convulsions at the goings-on of his
fellow-players.
Despite these minor lapses, “At It
Again” is a fresh gale that’s blown into
town : satire as deadly as Swift here
and there, some very very naughty lines
here and there to shock the prim, many
many laughs . . . especially if you don’t
live in Company Row at Strathfield.
KEVON KEMP


THE RED PAGE
HOW CHAMBERLAIN MISSED THE BUS
By ENID ARMSTRONG
Tain Macleod is a British Cabinet Mini-
ster, by Conservative standards both
young and radical. He found that Neville
Chamberlain had been by chance his pre-
decessor in several of the steps of his
political career, from the Conservative
Party’s Research Department to the Min-
istry of Health. He also found that the
Chamberlain whose policies and drafts he
had studied seemed very different from
the public image, and he decided to de-
vote his spare time to writing a
biography.*
This decision seems at once strange and
rather commendable. Mr Macleod is
presumably a man of some ambition, and
although the Conservative party is always
anxious to have evidence of its peren-
nial devotion to social reform, it is not
particularly keen on welcoming back to
its hagiarchy the “Man of Munich,”
Munich is still a dirty word in England,
as indeed it is in Australia. So Mr Mac-
leod appears at once rash and sporting.
Poor Mr Chamberlain, lauded as a peace-
maker for such a short while and then
reviled as a feeble incompetent for so
long. How unfair of the public, and of
so many historians ; how noble of Mr
Macleod to come to the rescue.
Not that Mr Macleod is the first
rescuer —his introduction refers some-
what curtly to the “pioneering” work of
Sir Keith Feiling. The two biographies
share the same private sources, Chamber-
lain’s diaries and his letters to his sisters
and the same thesis, that Chamberlain
was a notable social reformer, and has
been judged unfairly on his policy of
appeasement. The chief differences be-
tween pioneer and newcomer seem to be
Mr Macleod's lighter style and greater
brevity.
Chamberlain's record of social reform
is undoubtedly good and for a Conserva-
tive Unionist of the 20s and 30s it is
excellent. Subsidies for housing, slum
clearance, rating reforms, National Health
Insurance ; all these achievements are
quoted with pride in every little party
handbook on the subject.
The subject is, however, to many people
an impenetrably dull one, and Mr Mac-
leod lightens it with fascinating details of
political manoeuvres and recriminations,
sometimes illuminating his own standards
as clearly as Chamberlain’s. Not all the
anecdotes confirm the Macleod picture
of a man so upright as to be almost non-
political, but most combine with the
diaries and letters to show an earnest
well-meaning man, wily enough on
occasion, but sometimes naive with that
naivete of the professional politician,
almost as endearing as it is frightening.
When the National Government under
Ramsay MacDonald was elected with a
huge majority at the end of 1931, in the
depths of the Great Depression, Chamber-
lain was made Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer. His financial policies at home
were orthodox; budgets must be bal-
anced even if it meant cutting unemploy-
ment benefits. Perhaps the main criterion
of policy in a slump is after all what
people expect of it, and not what its
logical consequences are, and certainly
British business men at that time were
reassured by Chamberlain, even if nag-
ging post-Keynesian economists would
be dubious about his methods.
Most of Chamberlain's reforming zeal
was now however put behind the re-
imposition of tariffs and the negotiation
of the Ottawa agreements. Again econo-
mists are not agreed on the usefulness of
tariffs in a depression, particularly for a
highly developed industrial country de-
pendent on international trade, but Mr
Macleod sounds approving. In fact
Commonwealth politicians may wonder
whether he wrote this passage before or
after the Cabinet decided to take Britain
into the Common Market. Perhaps his
praise of Ottawa was a subtle way of
attacking that decision —more probably
he innocently thought that Ottawa suited
Britain then just as the Common Market
suits her now.
In 1935, Baldwin succeeded MacDonald
and although Chamberlain remained at
the Treasury two years longer he was
already, as Mr Macleod puts it, ‘Prime
Minister Designate.” His friend Hoare
was appointed to the Foreign Office, but
soon had to resign, to Chamberlain’s
disgust, because of the “absurd’’ public
outcry about the Hoare-Laval plan to
give Abyssinia to Italy. In the event
Abyssinia was given to Italy in spite of
the somewhat tepid efforts on her behalf
made by the next Foreign Secretary,
Eden. Eden himself only resigned when
Chamberlain, now at last Prime Minister
en titre, took two giant steps in foreign
policy without consulting him. Chamber-
lain wrote in his diary a long explanation
of the split, convincing himself that Eden,
though a charming fellow, had been en-
tirely in the wrong and “missed one
opportunity after another of advancing
toward peace.” The next incumbent was
Lord Halifax (the Labor party were
indignant at the thought of a Foreign
Secretary in the House of Lords, and
until Lord Home was appointed a couple
of years ago it was held that Lord Hali-
fax would be the last of the illustrious
line). Halifax was gratefully described
by the Prime Minister as “a steady, un-
ruffled F.S. who never causes me any
worry,” and Mr Macleod admits that
the direction of foreign policy was now
left to Chamberlain and his chief Indus-
trial Adviser, Sir Horace Wilson.
And so we come to the crux of the
book ; Mr Macleod may wish to em-
phasise the earlier part of Chamberlain’s
career, and it is kinder to the man him-
self to do so. But the central debate
remains—was Chamberlain's course of
appeasement the right one, or even the
best one in the circumstances?
TV/Cr Macleod uses four arguments to
justify appeasement. Germany had
real grievances, and guilt about Versailles
made Chamberlain (and the general pub-
lic) diffident about opposing Hitler. There
is something in this, but it explains more
than it justifies. German grievances by
1938 were very minor; Jewish and Aus-
trian grievances were already more
obvious.
Secondly, Chamberlain hated the idea
of war, and as a good social reformer
hated the thought of wasting resources on
it. In the event, the war for all its other
horrors probably did more for British
social services in five years than Cham-
berlain did in twenty. And hatred of
war does not by itself qualify a man for
the management of a country’s foreign
affairs. Mr Macleod bravely quotes that
Chamberlain. Iain Macleod.
Muller. 37s. 3d.


HOW TO SUCCEED
AS A
FREELANCE WRITER
If you have an aptitude for writing,
STOTT’S Correspondence Courses in
Story Writing, Freelance Journalism,
Script Writing, etc., will teach you to
write successfully for the Press.
For free Prospectus about STOTT’S
Literary Courses, mail the coupon today
Ifi—
159 Flinders Fane, Melbourne; 149 Castle-
reagh St.. Sydney; 290 Adelaide St.. Bris-
bane; 21 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 22 Howard
St.. Perth.
CUT AM) MAIL THIS COUPON
TO STOTT’S: Please send me. without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
AGE
(SB 762) J
most famous phrase of Chamberlain’s,
made in a broadcast just before his third
meeting with Hitler: “How horrible,
fantastic, incredible it is that we should
be digging trenches and trying on gas
masks here because of a quarrel in a
far-away country between people of
whom we know nothing.” No com-
ment is possible.
Thirdly (and this seems more like a
disguised attack than a defence), Cham-
berlain long believed appeasement would
be effective. No one knows when he lost
hope—after the meeting at Berchtesgaden
he could write to a sister “I got the im-
pression that here was a man who could
be relied upon when he had given his
word.” Mr Macleod argues desperately
that this applied only to Hitler’s promise
not to march into the Sudetenland dur-
ing the next few days ; the longer quota-
tion in Feiling’s biography gives it a
wider relevance.
The fourth and last argument is more
substantial —that Chamberlain believed
appeasement should be accompanied by
rearmament, even at Munich he realised
war was inevitable, and simply played
for time. It is easy to say that this con-
tradicts the previous excuse, but in fact
it is not only perfidious British statesmen
who find it possible to believe two con-
tradictory things at once ; it is a quite
widespread human failing. But was Brit-
ain’s military position relatively better
in 1939? Chamberlain may have been
justified in hoping it would be ; it was not
his fault if British Military Attaches
rated Czech defences much lower than
their German colleagues did. It was,
however, partly his fault that British
defences were so weak in 1938, and
almost wholly his fault they were still
so weak twelve months later. His Gov-
ernment had a handsome majority and
was not at all hampered by the Labor
opposition with its wild alternating cries
of appeaser and warmonger. Why then
was so little done? Partly because it takes
time to switch resources to rearmament ;
partly because Chamberlain still half-
hoped for peace (even after war had been
declared he still went round saying “Hit-
ler has missed the bus,” and he was not
just saying it to cheer people up). Partly
perhaps he feared that any rallying of
public opinion, clearly necessary if real
preparations were to be made, might in-
furiate Hitler to the point of starting
war immediately. With all our acquired
hindsight we know that by f. h time j
amount of public rallying would have
influenced Hitler one way or another. It
just might have encouraged his shadowy
opponents but that is another problem,
In "The Gathering Storm” Churchill
makes a characteristically generous an-
alysis of Chamberlain’s motives at
Munich, but he concludes with the rolling
phrase "Here however the moment came
when Honor pointed the path of Duty,
and when also the right judgment of the
facts at that time would have reinforced
its dictates.” However sorry one may
feel for Chamberlain, and for his last
months of life in the shadow of German
victories across Europe, Churchill’s judg-
ment still seems sounder than Mr
Macleod’s.
THAT CERTAIN BOOK
TWISTING AT TEN
By DONALD HORNE
At the age of, I think, ten we read
some extracts from “Oliver Twist” at
school. It seemed a very funny book.
Like Cole’s “Funny Picture Book” (which
I knew from the clippings pasted up in
my grandfather’s tool shed) it was filled
with extremely life-like people. Later I
was to learn at High school that these
people were not life-like, but were Vic-
torian grotesques ; this nonsense ruined
the innocence and honesty of my literary
judgment for some years and pushed me
off on to all kinds of uneasily acquired
fancies.
At this time of early innocence I wrote
a couple of small plays based on extracts
from this funny book and we put them
on at school. I played Bumble in my
father’s white waistcoat and tails ; one
of the girls played Oliver Twist.
Then in the school holidays I found
the full version of “Oliver Twist”
amongst a stack of books in my grand-
mother’s laundry. There had already
been trouble when I was caught reading a
book by someone called Baroness
Orczy that 1 found on top of the ice
chest so 1 took care to read “Oliver
Twist” in unsupervised places —the front
verandah, behind the fig tree, down by
the fernery, up near the fowl run, and so
on.
It was no longer merely a funny book.
It was a sad and sometimes terrifying
book (Noah Claypole was a bigger boy
than me), filled with evil, but still very
life-like. It seemed weak on non-evil
persons because it made them “good”
and I did not know any good people ;
in real life I knew only villains, heroes
and dull people. And unbearable
stretches of ennui were produced by the
kind of chapters where Monks trothed
at the mouth and Rose Maylie went into
her mysterious decline; these were as
dull as Baroness Orczy.
But to a student of character, aged ten,
on the whole this seemed to be it—life:
people with strong characteristics
different, interesting, bizarre. I wrote
down a list of all the villains and then a
list of the villains and heroes of my
own life (uncles, aunts, childien, trades-
men, the people next door, friends of
my parents and so on) and spent days
dreaming of all these people mixed up
together in new situations of my devising.
a . . ,
rhe f act that 1 d ' d not know an^
" lurderer , s :. plc , kpockets ? r paroch,al
deadl “ dld "°‘ ma «“- In f a coun ‘ r >'
town there are plenty of pompous
Bumb , es aroun(J and k did nQ , seem
impossible that Bill Sikes could have been
a schoolteacher, and vice versa,
j went on re-reading large parts of
“Oliver Twist” for several more years ;
by skipping the dull chapters I edited
“Oliver Twist” into a better book than
wa s. a j ot pennies went into
This is another contribution to
the series in which writers take
a second look at the books which
made an impact on them in their
early years. The first contributor
was Ross Campbell. Other contri-
butors will be A. D. Hope, Kenneth
Slessor, Gavin Casey, David Me-
Nicoll, Hal Porter, Peter Hastings,
Kylie Tennant, Harry Messel,
Sydney Deamer, James McAuley,
Alexander MacDonald, Max Harris,
W. C. Wentworth, Peter Coleman
and Alan Reid.


my money box to buy children’s editions
of other Dickens books for Christmas. I
set off into adolescence with a view of
life and people that I would now consider
to be quite sound but that my later educa-
tion almost destroyed.
More than a generation later, last
week in fact, I read “Oliver Twist”
right through again.
It is, of course, extraordinarily uneven
in tone. The upper middle class types,
including Monks (the only improbable
villain), are worthless. From the entry
of Monks and the Maylies whole
chapters are just great dollops of plot
worked over mechanically by cardboard
robots. And the Pickwickian jocular
irony of some of the earlier chapters now
jars with the unpleasant impact of an
outdated vogue. But if you could go
through it and cut all this out, what a
book it would be!
Or to be less rhetorical, it would con-
sist of two good books, each good in
itself, but strangely married. One is the
Book of Oliver and the other is the
Book of Fagin. The early part of the
novel is all Book of Oliver; then (if
one can ignore the Monks-Mayiie
nonsense) it becomes the Book of
Fagan.
The Book of Oliver is heartrending,
terrifying; gloomy and misty at the
edges but in its centrepieces nakedly real
—actual like a dream. It is a story of
isolation, lived in the shadows cast by the
callousness of institutions, the indiffer-
ence of persons, the imminence of catas-
trophe and the unpredictability of
events. It is a story of the agonies of non-
love and the craving for human contact.
The key passage occurs when Oliver
says good-bye to Dick before he runs
away to London:
“Hush Dick,” said Oliver, as the boy
ran to the gate, and thrust his thin arm
between the rails to greet him. “Is any
one up?”
“Nobody but me,” replied the child.
“You mustn't say you saw me, Dick,”
said Oliver. “I am running away. They
beat and ill-used me, Dick; and l am
going to seek my fortune, some long way
off. I don’t know where. How pale you
are!”
“I heard the doctor tell them 1 was
dying,” replied the child with a faint
smile . . . “Kiss me,” said the child, climb-
ing up the low gate, and bringing his lit.le
arm round Oliver’s neck. "Goodbye, dear.
God bless you.”
The blessing was from a young child’s
lips but it was the first Oliver had ever
heard invoked upon his head.
The lonely horror of the opening
episodes is lit only by an occasional
flicker of kindness —in the magistrate’s
eyes, in Bumble’s husky voice, in Sower-
berry’s occasional humanity and more
significantly in Dick’s farewell blessing.
But the book changes gear when Oliver
meets Fagin. There is a sudden peace of
spirit. Although plenty of trouble is
still to come, it is human trouble.
Oliver finds a father in Fagin. In real
life the story might very well end here,
with Oliver taking up a criminal career
because criminals took an interest in him.
A happy ending could be arranged in his
quick transportation to New South Wales
where, in touch with the world, he could
reform and make his fortune. Although
Fagin’s motives come from self interest
there is a kindness of a strange sort in
him:
“Is Oliver a-bed? I want to speak to
him,” was his first remark as they de-
scended the stairs.
“Hours ago,” replied the Dodger, throw-
ing open a door. “Here he is!”
The boy was lying, fast asleep, on a
rude bed upon the floor, so pale with
anxiety, and sadness, and the closeness of
his prison, that he looked like death . . in
the guise it wears when life has just de-
parted . . .
“Not now,” said the Jew, turning softly
away. “Tomorrow. Tomorrow.”
Men like Fagin who run an apparatus
often have their streak of kindness ; they
might not be able to head their appara-
tuses if they did not. But this worldly
observation really belongs to the Book of
Fagin, not the Book of Oliver.
Before leaving the Book of Oliver, one
must point out that as well as a soul-in-
isolation story it is also a hard-luck story
of a kind no one seems to write any
longer. Modern novels are full of the
hard luck of pathological characters but
they are not greatly concerned with the
horrors of existence for innocent
victims.
That is why the calloused tastes of
today's readers find the inhumanity of
“Oliver Twist” sentimental, overdone. If
you set Oliver in a Nazi concentration
camp, or a Chinese commune, they might
still find it overdone. If they find
inhuman cruelties in life they de-person-
alise them into ideological chatter. This
approach came out terrifyingly when “Dr
Zhivago” had its vogue. “Zhivago” was
an immensely sad book about people ;
yet some reacted to it ideologically. The
Victorians lived in the immediate presence
of horror and the existence of horror
entered their imaginations. We live in
the knowledge of far greater horrors and
discuss them in a kind of emotional
algebra.
The full sophistications of the Book
of Fagin were far beyond a school-
boy’s imagination, although bits of it had
some impact. Schoolboys are used to
the idea of groups of people being mani-
pulated by a leader ; at least I was from
pirate stories, war stories, Billy Bunter
stories and personal experience. And
there was something of the thrill of
being behind the scenes in reading the
Fagin-Sikes and Fagin-Monks top secret
summit meetings ; this was the kind of
mysteriously significant conversation
children were not supposed to hear. It
was like listening to your parents talking
when they thought you were asleep ; you
learned what really went on.
But what few schoolboys would recog-
nise was that in the jargon of today, Fagin
was an “operator.” He even speaks of
his “operation.” He was an apparatus-
manipulator and not only does Dickens
give his fullest and most sensitive treat-
ment to the characters of every member
of the Fagin apparatus (no grotesquerie
here, apart from the melodrama of the
physical description); he also shows up
how an “operator” operates ; how a man
can manipulate others for his own power,
and why.
This develops gradually. It does not all
come out until the later chapters, which
are “modern” in treatment, without the
earlier jocularity. In his initial dealings
with Oliver, Fagin show's the human side
of an operator ; people like him because
he attracts their attention, he amuses
them, he can be kind to them. He absorbs
them into his personality so that what he
does matters ; even the brutal Sikes is
captivated. But as the operation pro-
ceeds it is seen that the operator main-
tains his power by fear as well as respect.
The gang are all in his grasp because they
acknowledge both his genius and his
power over them.
And although they admire his untrust-
worthiness as an operator they trust him
themselves. In this, of course, they are
deluded. He treats them all —even Sikes
(“He is the mere hound of a day”)—as
disposable. He speaks of honor and
glory, mutual trust; he appears to look
after his own; he displays rare confi-
dence, kindnesses; but he is ready to
dump everyone of them as he has
already betrayed others who had trusted
him.
He is Mr Single-Minded, intent only on
maintaining a power structure. It is this
situation alone that impels him ; his
patience, his drollery, his deceit, his ruth-
lessness all operate to keep things going.
For what reason? Not really money. One
way and the other money dominates the
book ; it was a Victorian obsession, but
here it is only a symbol of power. What
dominates Fagin he expresses quite
clearly himself when he says to Noah
Claypole: “Some conjurers say that
number three is the magic number, and
some say number seven. It’s neither, my
friend. It’s number one.”
These considerations move into a
darker world than the one guessed at by
most little boys who read books on their
grandmother’s front verandahs. The
significance of the Fagin operation needs
more study. After looking up a biography
I found that Dickens’s friend John
Forster hinted that the chapters about the
Fagin gang had a purpose that went
beyond the study of criminals, that
readers might recognise in the Fagin gang
men and women like themselves. He says
that the novel shows that “the result of
being above the necessity of depending on


Positions Vacant
LANGLEY SCHOOL, NORFOLK,
ENGLAND
BIOLOGIST September. To take VI Form
work. Burnham Seale plus £6O.
ASSISTANT MASTER September. Some
Science desirable but not essential. Burnham
Scale.
In both cases games and/or scouting would be
an asset. One master may be given charge of
Rugger, Lawn Tennis or Cricket. A house is
available for a married master. A single master
would be resident with board free in exchange
for assistant house duties. Fare will be paid
for master accepting three-year appointment.
Apply : Headmaster, Langley School, Nor 24W.
DENTUR
FIT-RITE
One application of this new semi-clear pliable
plastic discovery takes up slack, loose dentures
caused by gum shrinkage or worn dentures.
Dentures fit tight for life. FIT-RITE, developed
from the same material as your dentures,
ADHERES, SETS, MOULDS, HARDENS on to
dentures to the exact shape of the mouth AS
YOU WEAR. ENDS permanently daily use of
powders. DROPPING, WOBBLY DENTURES.
ENDS EMBARRASSMENT. RESTORES perfect
tight suction fit. Use with CONFIDENCE,
GUARANTEED Harmless! FIT-RITE also
IMPROVES facial beauty, pushes out hollow
cheeks and receding lips. Simply apply FIT-
RITE to side or front ridge of dentures. NO
RESULTS—NO CHARGE! So simple-
anyone can use. Sold only by DENTURE
PERFECT FIT-RITE CO. (Scientific
Colleges and Plastics Ind. Co. P./E.). 08
SWAN STREET (Opp. Richmond Station),
VICTORIA. J 81755.
I enclose 40/- for FIT-RITE, and/or send me
free particulars.
NAME
ADDRESS
BIXL.
Divorce Notices
IN THE LOCAL COURT HELD AT PERTH.
No. 12832 of 1959.
Between
RAYMOND TROUNCE
Plaintiff
and
G. E. WILKINSON
Defendant
TO G. E. WILKINSON formerly of Nonning Station
via Iron Knob in the State of South Australia Take
notice that a plaint has been entered and a Summons
issued against you in the above Local Court by
RAYMOND TROUNCE of S Beasley Street Millen in
the State of Western Australia Driver Salesman for
the sum of £9O for damages and an Order has been
made that the publication of a notice of the entry
of such plaint in the Adelaide Advertiser and the
Sydney Bulletin shall be deemed to be good and
sufficient service of the Summons upon you The
Summons will be heard at Perth on Friday the 31st
day of August 1962 at 10 o’clock in the forenoon on
which day you are required to appear; and if you do
not appear either in person or by your Solicitor at
the time and place abovementioned such Order will
be made and proceedings taken as the Magistrate may
think just and expedient DATED this 27tli day cf
September 1961 (Sgd) B. M. SMITH Clerk of
the Court.
MESSRS. JACKSON, McDONALD & CO., Solicitors,
55 St. George’s Terrace, PERTH.
TO THOMAS CLAUDE JOHNSTON, late of Rokeby
in Tasmania labourer. —TAKE NOTICE that appli-
cation is being made to the Supreme Court of
Tasmania by ADA LUCY ELIZABETH JOHNSTON
wife of the said THOMAS CLAUDE JOHNSTON for
leave that she may swear that the said THOMAS
CLAUDE JOHNSTON died during or since the year
1949 TAKE NOTICE that THOMAS CLAUDE
JOHNSTON if he be alive or anyone knowing his
whereabouts is requested to contact the undersigned
within 28 days of the date of publication of this
advertisement at the expiration of which time the
said application will be made Dated this 26th day
of March 1962. ADA LUCY ELIZABETH JOHN-
STON by her solicitors, PIGGOTT, WOOD & BAKER,
of 28 Murray Street, Hobart in Tasmania.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO NOELENE BEVERLY’ BOYD.—TAKE NOTICE
that DAVID HENRY BOYD has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 389 of 1962 on the grounds of deser-
tion If you wish to defend you may file an Answer
in the Divorce Registry Mint Building Macquarie
Street Sydney by the 15th day of May 1962 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without charge from
A. F. KINLEY. Solicitor, of 63 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney.—C. A. 11. HARMS, Registrar.
Matrimonial Causes Act, 1959.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO PATRICK WAYNE MICHEAL DONNELLY
TAKE NOTICE that BERYL LORRAINE DON-
NELLY has filed Petition No. 132 of 1962 for divorce
on the grounds of desertion and separation If you
wish to defend you may file an answer in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Macquarie Street Sydney by
the 12th day of May 1962 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from KENNEDY & WINTER,
Solicitors, 199 a Macquarie Street, Liverpool.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
ENGINES
RECONDITIONED
WHILE-YOU-DRIVE
Super Nil Metal Pat. expands up to 30%,
eliminating slackness and lack of power
caused by WORN engine parts. Replates
Worn upper Cylinders, main bearings,
diffs, gears, SAVES rebore, ends piston
slap, rattles, oil. petrol waste. RESTORES:
New compression Power, top speed zip.
ADDS £ s.d. resale value. GUARANTEED:
Up to 25.000 miles according to engine
wear. SIMPLY add Re-Nu expanding liquid,
Nu Metal or in tablet form to oil. petrol,
plug holes. 4,6, 8 cylinders, 60/-, 70/-, SO/-.
Manufactured since 1934. Harmless to Finest
Engines. Open Saturday. Sold only by
RE-NU CO. (ESXAB. 1932).
Scientific Colleges k Plastic (lnd. Co. Pty. T.td.)
58 Swan Street. (Opp. Richmond Stn.) J 81755.
I enclose for Super Nu Metal, or send copy
of testimonials, engineers reports and free folder
describing action of Nu Metal.
NAME
ADDRESS Bul
other people’s opinion and that of being
below it are pretty much the same,” and
that “it would startle both high and low
to be conscious of the whole that is
implied in this close approximation.” I
think 1 shall go back to reading Dickens.
As to the grotesqueries—they stand up
pretty well. Some of the respectable
villains, the Bumbles and so on, verge on
caricature, although not as much as I
expected. But Fagin, Sikes, Nancy, the
Dodger and the others are not grotesques
at all—if grotesque means “unlike life.”
They are very careful, indeed inspired,
studies of evil inhuman beings, economi-
cally and subtly presented—if you can
ignore some of the oddities of language.
You don’t get their like in fiction any
longer now that we know that there are
no heroes and villains any more. Of
course Dickens knew part of this, too.
Some of these villains have their heroic
side; his failure was to depict the
villainous side of his heroes.
Are they grotesque? Only in the sense
that life itself is grotesque ; it does not
follow the patterns of our neat ideas.
Monstrosity is a feature of existence;
to depict it is to be realistic. (This is
why Xavier Herbert’s “Soldiers’ Women”
was a better book than critics, put off by
the unfashionable language, could
realise.)
After I had re-read “Oliver Twist” I
was sitting with some friends drinking.
I could not help thinking that if a 10-
year-old boy were looking through the
window at us from his grandmother’s
front verandah he would find we were
grotesque enough.
FUNDAMENTALS
Poetry and Experience. Archibald
MacLeish. The Bodley Head. 225.
6d.
T}or a number of years Archibald Mac-
Leish has been Boylston Professor at
Harvard. Like a number of American
universities, Harvard has a course in
“creative writing” but it has only a
small class of twelve students who, be-
fore entering the course, must be
“actively engaged in creative writing.”
In lecturing to his students, MacLeish
has carefully avoided pedantic analysis
and intellectual jargon. He deals with
the fundamentals —words, images, meta-
phors and meanings. He does not make
any new and devastating conclusions,
but tries to help us see, in C. Day Lewis’s
words, that “poetry’s truth comes from
the perception of a unity underlying and
relating all phenomena.” The book has
two sections : “The Means of Meaning”
and “The Shape of Meaning.” The first
section is concerned with the nature
of poetry and the poet’s relationship
with the world, and is an attempt to
make clear to students some of the
reasons why poems are as they are.
The second edition, which does not
set out to offer criticisms, elaborates on
the first part of the book and treats
aspects of the work of Emily Dickenson,
Yeats, Rimbaud and Keats. Unfortu-
nately some facile judgments are made,
particularly on Rimbaud.
It must be quite an experience for
writers to have clear and helpful guid-
ance in their formative years. Compare
the situation in Australia. English de-
partments of universities are mainly pre-
occupied with literary criticism —and the
creation of poetry, and prose, is generally
left to chance and accident. Too much
pampering could be harmful, but surely
there is a balance between too much and
too little help. The results of the latter
condition are to be found in most Aus-
tralian books. A considerable amount of
literary work in Australian universities
is merely a parasitic, though pleasant,
game.
R. A. SIMPSON


Missing Friends
ANY person knowing the whereabouts of ROBERT
GIBBON—son of ROBERT GIBBON and HARRIET
GIBBON (ne'e STOKES)—a butcher who in 1908 lived
at Coolgardie, Western Australia, is requested to
communicate within 14 days with C. T. ERLAND,
Solicitor, 443 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WILL any descendants of ALBERT LESLIE
CAMPBELL with children NANCY and FRANK, who
emigrated to Australia from Penge, Surrey, in about
1878, please communicate with K. M. CAMPBELL,
Wicklands, Little Horsted, Uckfield, Sussex, England.
AINO
S,ll
I'-
More for
mum,
more
for dad,
faore for
s!the kids
*in your
greatest
Everybody's
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES. — In Divorce.
TO LESLIE JOHN LOVERIDGE.—TAKE NOTICE
that MAY JOYCE LOVERIDGE has filed a Petition
lor Divorce No. 3391 of 1961 on the grounds of
desertion and separation If you wish to defend you
may enter an answer in the Divorce Registry Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by the 18th day
of May 1962 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from GEOFFREY SEE, GILLIS &
CO., Solicitors, 28 Martin Place, Sydney.—C. A. 11.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES. — In Divorce.
TO NOEL ALFRED PALMER.—TAKE NOTICE that
PHYLLIS RACHAEL PALMER has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2976 of 1961 on the grounds of
desertion If you wish to defend you may enter an
answer in the Divorce Registry Mint Building Mac-
quarie Street Sydney by the 26th day of May 1962
and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from GEOFFREY SEE, GILLIS & CO., Solicitors, 28
Mai'tin Place, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Ezra Pound’s Essays On Ignorance
Edited with an introduction by Australian
writer Noel Stock, IMPACT presents clearly
the complete Pound; his views on educa-
tion, history, money, literature and cul-
ture. PRICE 47/6, POSTED.
THE HERITAGE BOOKSHOP,
273 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE
ARMSDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOL
situated in the Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Buildings.
Junior House separate from the
rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on application
to
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
The
Bulletin
Incorporating The Australian Financial Times
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
NEW SUB./RENEW AL
(Please cross out onel
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney
Please find enclosed my cheque I money-order
for months’ subscription to The
Bulletin.
NAME:
ADDRESS:
RATES (Australia and New Guinea) : 1 year —
£2 125.; i year—£l 6s. Post free. British
Dominions : £3 6s. Other countries :
£3 16s.
N.Z. SUBSCRIPTIONS (Remit to Box 965,
Wellington, N.Z.) : 1 year—£2 12s. (N.Z.
currency); i year—£l 6s. (N.Z. currency).
Please add exchange to cheques.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 687
Across
I—Bear1 —Bear fury settles down in a month. (8)
s—Restrain5 —Restrain a pattern and corroborate a remark by an
aggressive chess-player. (5)
10— S not s? (7)
11 — People who have hit it off are in this harbor on strike. (7)
12 — Bad blood shown by George Kelly, all that being
bashed. (10)
15 — Anzac js rigged wrong. (6)
16 — The two auxiliary verbs don’t
muck up! (6)
18 — Direction for all to leave the
stage. (6)
19 — Has a shot at some barracking
in the steamer. (6)
21 —Wrecked to a toad and an Aus-
tralian inland town. (10)
24 — An early visitor to the West
jetty in the artificial lake. (7)
25 Ace Kate confused with food.
(3-4)
26 — Business garment is a deadly
poisoner. (5)
27 — Commissions assignations with
humanity. (8)
Down
1 — Fat Russians like 2-down?
(4-6, 4)
2 Town clothes which goes well
with the beef? (10)
3 Somewhat repulsive, but reject-
ing suitors? (10)
4 Part of the footwear of the
king-emperor is sufficient for
meatballs. (8)
6 Beer dances. (4)
7 A kitchen expert takes a little
business on approval. (4)
8 — Legal work is woven from fibre.
(5)
9 Bad unionists hit the surf. (6-8)
13 —It’s not new, this hope of a
batsman who fails in the first
innings. (6-4)
14 —Trait of a singer which is a
source of much ill-feeling be-
tween Victoria and Tasmania.
(4, 6)
17 —Feature swallowed a beverage.
(5, 3)
20 —A swine with the coppers put up
at a guest house. (5)
22 — Morning before Roy Rene has
bullets, shells, etc. (4)
23 — Mortuary slab. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 686


GOES
WE
GO~EBBO
Now, on all our stations, appears t} ie
new sign of energy! Esso is World’s First Choice!
More motorists the world over use Esso than
any other brand, for their Happy Motoring!
<fsjo>
O 7
%
CU
Esso is the world’s largest industrial organisation.
Esso sells a daily total exceeding 120 million gallons of petroleum
products in 135 countries and territories.
Your Esso Dealer, and his products, are backed by the world’s
largest petroleum research organisation.
Esso employs 4,000 scientists and engineers, who have developed
7,000 patented processes to bring greater satisfaction to petroleum
users in every field.
Esso invests more than £25 million every year in research, to
constantly bring you new and improved products.
Look for the Esso sign! It’s your new sign of
energy your new sign of finer products! Call
in today and see your Esso Dealer for a new
kind of Happy Motoring!
(wm)
IS NOW
(Esso)
WORLD'S FIRST CHOICE I
ATLANTIC UNION OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
NOW ESSO STANDARD OIL (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
4502.FP
