

The Bulletin
MARCH 31
ONE SHILLING
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
NEW 20-PAGE BUSINESS AND FINANCE
SECTION INCORPORATING THE
AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
KORMAN: WRITS AND WIND UPS • THC BUILDING INDUSTRY *
THE COAL REPORT • MILAN TRADE FAIR • JAPAN'S GREAT PLAN •
ONE TO BUY • PLUS REGULAR FEATURES •
OIL IN AUSTRALIA
the real story
NEW FEATURES
JOHN DOUGLAS PRINGLE - LONDON NEWSLETTER
ALAN REID — “AS I SEE IT” Weekly political commentary.
ROSS CAMPBELL - " STATELY HOLMES OF ENGLAND”
SCIENCE AT WORK .


nowi^Z^D^S
from
SUPERANNUATION
for all SELF-EMPLOYED PERSONS
professional men, businessmen, farmers, graziers
and ALL EMPLOYERS and their STAFFS
Commonwealth legislation now enables the A.M.P.
Society, Australia’s No. 1 Life Office, to offer you
tax-free superannuation which can provide for:
• RETIREMENT with adequate
cash resources.
• PROTECTION for your family
against death duties and against
sickness and accident.
• CAPITAL APPRECIATION
through A.M.P.’s large holdings
of equity shares and real estate.
• GUARANTEED by £550 million
of A.M.P. assets.
For all information,
contact your A.M.P. man or The Superannuation Manager,
A.M.P SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY COVE
A purely mutual society largest underwriter of superannuation in Australia
A.M.P. members enjoy the unquestioned security afforded by funds of
£550,000,000 which the Society seeks to invest to the
greatest benefit to members.
■ v-
Z 1498


J. T LANG .. . page 59
“Look Back at Hatred’
©
The New Oil Diplomacy . 15
Dry in Bombay .. « 16
London Newsletter , 18
The View From a Totem Pole . 20
Seven Years’ War . . 21
Rebirth of the Liberals .. .21
A Funny Sort of War .. . 22
A Town Like Elliott .. 25
A Plain Man’s Guide to the
[ Senate . . 27
Adelaide Arts Festival . 55
The Stately Holmes of England 60
@
NATIONAL NOTEBOOK 4
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
AROUND MELBOURNE 11
FORUM - - « 23
LETTERS - - * 26
SHORT STORY * < ■ 30
SCIENCE AT WORK 33
WILD CAT 35
REVIEWS - * ■ 55
RED PAGE ’ • 59
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY LTD
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; Phone: 27 5771, .
Vol. ,83
No. 4285
"THE BULLETIN" READER
"JHIS is the first issue of The Bulletin incorporating “The Australian
Financial Times.” Beginning on page 35 is a new, expanded, 20-page
finance section which combines the principal features of “The Australian
Financial Times” with those of The Bulletin's Wild Cat pages.
Why did we incorporate the two papers? One reason was certainly
the need to cut costs in a high-cost age. But the principal reason was
revealed to us in the recent Bulletin readership survey undertaken by
Motivational Research (Australia).
The survey showed that a significant proportion of Bulletin readers
were also buying the “Financial Times.” As both newspapers were being
produced by the same company it seemed only sense to incorporate one in
the other.
The survey the most comprehensive undertaken in Australian
periodical readership—was designed to tell us as much as possible about
our readers both from an editorial viewpoint and that of potential advertis-
ing markets. The report, which runs to more than 100 foolscap pages, is
complete with tables and cross references which have been tabulated by
processing all replies on electronic computers.
From a variety of conclusions these facts of general interest emerge:
Most of our readers are aged between 20 and 50 years of age. The
average age is 43. Most readers are married men. Only one in eight
readers is a woman. Although Australia’s university graduate population is
only 1 per cent, of the national population, 40.53 per cent, of Bulletin
readers have had a tertiary education (7.51 post-graduate degrees, 25.38
degrees, 7.64 technical college diplomas). Approximately 61 per cent, of
Australian wage and salary earners earn less than £lOOO a year. The
average income of Bulletin readers is X 2OOO yearly.
The average Bulletin reader owns his own home—there were more
home owners among subscribers than casual buyers and among NSW and
Queensland readers than among Victorians —and its average value is
On the whole he prefers beer to whisky but as he grows older he
prefers whisky to beer. Ffe also likes wine. He usually buys a medium
class car and keeps it for about four years. He usually sends, or intends
to send, his children to private schools for their education. After he
reaches his forties he begins to buy shares and trade in them and his
interest in financial and economic trends sharply increases.
MAJORITY of Bulletin readers like topical, controversial articles and
sophisticated, witty reviews and contributions. We found that of our
readers, many had come across from “The Observer” and that as many
again were entirely new and recent readers.
One of the biggest problems in incorporating “The Times” with The
Bulletin was the discrepancy between the two, but perhaps this was
more apparent than real. We had to ensure that the character of “The
Times” as a young and up-to-date finance paper was not lost. Equally we
had to ensure that the merger would not destroy the essential political,
controversial and literary character of The Bulletin —Australia’s oldest,
most respected weekly.
We also felt that in Australia, as elsewhere in the modern world, the
economic, intellectual and cultural life of the nation is becoming increasingly
interwoven and that an up-to-date journal should reflect this fact.
We hope we have managed the marriage quite successfully. In this
issue, in addition to the new finance section and regular Bulletin features,
you will find J. D. Pringle’s London Newsletter, a Report from Bombay
by David McNicoll, Science At Work and the first contribution by Ross
Campbell to an unusual series beginning on the Red Page.


National
Notebook
The Establishment Unbends
Jnvaded for the festival by the most
impressive array of artists even seen
in this country, the Adelaide establish-
ment set out to show that it is human
after all—and cultured, too.
A friend of ours reports that
we have had the spectacle of the
South Australian Hotel's famous maitre
d'hotel, Lewy, ushering drinkers into his
dining-room until the wicked hour of
midnight to eat, drink and play merry
hell in the Festival Club established there
for a fortnight. We've seen Bhasgar
Indian dancers cha-cha-cha-ing around
this staid hotel and calling for the
Twist. We've even seen actress Zoe
Caldwell, freshly barbecued as Saint
Joan, wearing slacks and sandals in the
room which the Queen's dressmaker
couldn't even make without a tie.
But, of course, the Festival Club has
not once sighted Premier Sir Tom Play-
ford risking the few wowser votes he
still retains by joining in the fun.
The Governor-General. Lord De L'lsle.
hasn't missed many events. The only
thing he might have had misgivings about
was the opening night when the red dye
on the souvenir programme stained Lady
De L’lsle's gloves and a new pair had
to be fetched from Government House.
At the dinner given to him by members
of the SA Parliament, the Governor-
General said he had good reason to
know about South Australia's early
history. William Wakefield, younger
brother of Edward Gibbon Wakefield,
who helped to establish the State, ran
oft with Lord De L isle's great-great-aunt,
Elizabeth Sidney, and married her.
Subsequently both brothers were impris-
oned for three years for abducting an
heiress. Elizabeth died while her husband
w as in Lancaster Castle.
Incidentally the "house full” sign out-
side Government House meant that
"Flash Harry” (Sir Malcolm Sargent) had
to forgo his usual bed there and settle for
the slightly less impressive mansion of Sir
Tom Barr-Smith in the hills.
The people who most enjoyed them-
selves were undoubtedly the artists.
People like London Philharmonic con-
ductor John Pritchard, who rushed from
the dry Rotary lunch to indulge his
fondness for white wines at Geoffrey
Penfold Hyland’s vineyard, or Uruguayan
opera singer, Ana Raquel Satie, who
dashed straight from airport to party.
Naturally there have been a few per-
sonality clashes. Commonwealth Art
Advisory Board members Sir Will Ashton
and Russell Drysdale are said to have
differed over the merits of a David Boyd
painting in Kym Bonython's collection,
but Drysdale won the day when the board
bought not only the Boyd but also a
Sidney Nolan for a pretty figure.
Hepzibah Menuhin, the first soloist of
the festival, left her audience rather
stunned. She launched into the opening
chords of Schubert's “Wanderer
Fantasie” when part of the audience were
mistakenly standing for the National
Anthem.
She not only altered the order of the
programme but substituted work's. If
some recital-goers had followed their
programmes and not known the com-
posers played, they might blissfully have
sat • through Mendelssohn's “Variations
and Serieuses ” thinking it was the
Wagner-Liszt '‘Arrival of Guests on the
Wartburg.” Then at the end of the
programme when the audience were
settling down to as many encores as they
could get for their money, Miss Menuhin
played the National Anthem and sent
them on their way.
puRTHER incidental intelligence from
* Adelaide:
Millions of blooms forced, stuffed, and
torn into carpets, badges, tableaux;
suburban folk art, meticulous effort
exciting admiration but not producing
aesthetic beauty. In the foyer of a side-
street bank a quiet lady was arranging a
few perfect flowers and branches accord-
ing to the canons of a modern Japanese
school of floral art. The result was
breathtaking. What did she think of the
displays in Victoria Square now that she
had learned the Japanese way? “I can't
bear to look at them.” she said.
☆
First Young Man (continental
European): ... but this play, this play,
I could not stomach, and so l walked
out. Two things there were when 1 was
a child I could not stomach, one was
“Moby Dick”, and the other was
“Ariadne auf Naxos”, worse in the
original German, and now this play is a
third. 1 have had no difficulty with James
Joyce and such so-called obscure writers,
but this play ... Second YM (patrician
Adelaide): Were you born a Catholic?
First YM (completely deflated): Yes.
☆
Progressive conversation at a wine
tasting: "The trouble with this festival
is that it is insufficiently Dionysiac and
too Apollonian. All those pieces stressing
the Protestant ethic, I mean, . .
“The trouble W'ith a festival is is
Insufficiently Apollysiac an Too
Diononian ...”
“The trouble wizizfezzivaliziz too
diabolic and insuffizzenly aphrodizzenly.'’
Punchline:
Who's that? That's Lord De L'lsle and
Dudley. Goodness, don't they look alike?
Advice to the Young
p'avin Casey, in Sydney last week for
the launching of his latest book
“Amid the Plenty”, has to take his excite-
ment quietly these days because of the
afier-effects of four years of tuberculosis.
Looking rather battle-worn, grey, not
very tall, though heavily built, he puffs
and wheezes around on a stick and is
still beyond doubt one of the nation s
champion ear-bashers: he even silenced
Xavier Herbert who was passing through
Sydney last week on his way to the
Adelaide Festival. He has already com-
pleted another novel which Bulleiin
BOARD-ROOM PERSONALITIES
The Latecomer
Confound the fellow, lie's always late
lie saunters in, the reprobate,
With a “Morning All” and a “ Don't
mind me ”
Which ruffles the meeting immediately.
He’s sure to come when we’re half way
through
The trickiest work we have to do.
The Chairman tries to show disdain
And disregard him, all in vain.
For when at last he’s found a seat
li’s “Good day Jim’’ and “Hullo Pete.”
And then a whisper holds us up
“I won ten quid on the Caulfield Cup.’’
7he Board at last picks up the train
Of thought, and starts debate again;
But silence doesn't suit our friend:
He thinks too soon he’s caught the trend
And keeps the Board, now long delayed,
Repeating points already made.
The Chairman gives a resume :
Our friend has still one card to play;
He quotes some news he’s heard next
door
Which alters all that's gone before.
We ask him for a full report :
His simple unconcerned retort
Is “Sorry chaps, I just can’t wait;
I'm overdue to meet my date.’’
MICHAEL SEARLE


readers had a sample of in a short story
called “High Horse and Low Lady”, in
the last Christmas issue. He is also plan-
ning one on the racial riots which took
place in Kalgoorlie in the early 1930 s and
which he covered closely as a Pressman.
The three-day brawl was a wild time,
from which a rather stunned town
emerged with three of its citizens dead
by violence, others more or less knocked
about, and a couple of hundred homes,
shops, hotels and boarding-houses burned
and smashed. His advice to young writers
is: keep writing, do any and every writing
job that is not degrading, and do not
expect fairy-tale fame. “If you want two
Bentleys, recognition and respect from the
people in the street, and the status of an
oracle, give it up now and for ever,” he
tells them. "But if your idea of success
is just a modest income for a lot of work,
but your share of fun and friends along
with it, and a lively life in a world of
ideas, then go ahead. Those rewards are
available, and should they cease to be
Ihen Australia’s plight will be sad.” He
came over this trip to deliver Common-
wealth Literary Fund lectures in Can-
berra and Melbourne, but now that he's
found out that despite his illness he can
"IF THE OAS IS SAVING ALGERIA FOR FRANCE WHAT ARE THEY
SAVING FRANCE FOR?"
still travel, (in air-conditioned com-
partments) it’s a safe bet we’ll be seeing
more of him soon.
Inflamed by Sherry
r J''HEY were having second thoughts up
at G.B. in Chatswood, Sydney.
(Around there G.B. doesn’t mean Great
Britain, it means Grace Bros., the Depart-
ment Store). It seemed a good idea to
have an exhibition of Sydney black and
white cartoons and invite the cartoonists
themselves to the opening, but weren't
there risks in jamming all that artistic
temperament into one room? Wouldn’t
old scars inflicted by accusations of
thieving each other's styles, jokes, ideas,
jobs be reopened, and, inflamed by
sherry and prawns, lead to violence?
But it was too late to call the whole thing
off, so G.B. took what precautions they
could and made arrangements to keep a
close eye on how much each one drank.
(Remember those “Smith’s Weekly” do’s
before the war!) As it turned out G.B.
needn't have worried. Things have
changed since the “.Smith’s Weekly” days.
Today even cartoonists have been bitten
by the PR bug and seem determined to
put themselves over in public as nice
guys who wouldn’t even kick a dog.
Everyone behaved beautifully and old
foes were photographed and televised
laughing at each other’s work.
G.B. deserve high praise for their idea
and for their plan to give any donations
to Legacy. One only hopes such a good
cause does better than it did when The
Bulletin left on the first day: the collec-
tion box then contained a total of two
cigarette butts.
Horse Latitudes
A Brisbane resident with an observant
eye tells us that a parking-meter has
been installed alongside two iron hitching
posts in front of the A.N.Z. Bank
building in Queen Street. The hitching
posts, an echo of an earlier age, are
handsome lions which used to hold iron
rings in their mouths. But the most
attractive thing about them, possibly, was
that they were free.


This Australia
AS I SEE IT
THE QUIET REVOLUTION
FROM ALAN REID IN CANBERRA
W. C. WENTWORTH
Vindicated
'T'he Federal Parliamentary drama since
A the general elections of December
last has tended to distract attention from
an event of major importance in the field
of Federal administration: for the first
time in years the politicians have been
acting, not on the advice of their experts,
but on their own judgment.
When the Menzies Government de-
cided to reduce income tax by 5 per cent,
to increase the spending power of the
States and local government authorities
by £25,000,000, to impose quantitative
restrictions and to take other measures
designed to give the economy a boost,
these decisions were based on political,
not economic, considerations. They did
not flow from the recommendations of
Treasury officials and Government
economists. They were the prompt
reactions of a Government which had
just had notice served on it, by an elec-
torate which reduced its House of Repre-
sentatives’ majority from 32 to two, that
the Australian community would not
accept any significant volume of unem-
ployment.
In taking that attitude the electorate
—probably without the individual voter
being aware of what he or she was
doing—was calling for a re-examination
of the thesis that Australia’s internal
rate of activity and development is
governed so tightly by its external bal-
ance-of-payments requirements as to
leave little room for internal manipula-
tion.
Right up to polling day the Menzies
Government continued to accept that
thesis uncritically. It showed this by
insisting that everything it had done in
November, 1960, when it took economic
measures to “dampen down” the
economy and the things that had resulted
from what it did in November—includ-
ing mounting unemployment were
forced upon it by a then deteriorating
external balance-of-payments position.
Some unemployment and depressed trad-
ing conditions inside Australia were the
inevitable consequences of external
factors over which it had no control—
this was the theme.
This has been the justification for the
unevenness of the Australian economy
even at the best of times. When the over-
seas balance-of-payments position was
good as a result of high prices paid for
Australian goods sold overseas, it was a
“go” period for the Australian economy.
When the overseas balance-of-payments
position was bad it was a “stop” period.
As I see it, the electorate has now put
it right up to the Government. Can
financial and economic techniques be
devised which have the effect of “com-
partmentalising” the balance-of-pay-
ments position and internal development
problems so that they do not interact on
each other to the degree they have done
in the past? Can the Menzies Govern-
ment’s remedial actions on this occasion
in the internal field (over which it has
extensive control and for which it carries
the major political responsibility) be
turned into a regularised system for use
on future occasions when the external
financial position (over which it has no
control) goes temporarily sour?
Mr William Wentworth (Lib., NSW),
who even his most bitter Labor critic
would admit is one of the best minds and
most original thinkers in the Parliament,
obviously believes that the problems can
be “compartmentalised” to a far greater
extent than they have been in the past.
He recently described the subjection of
Australia’s internal rate of growth and
development to its external balance-of-
payments requirements as “a policy of
burning down a house in order to roast
a pig.”
Undoubtedly imports contribute
heavily to both Australian development
and our standard of living. They are
paid for by building up currency reserves
—balances—abroad through the sale of
Australian commodities. But, as Went-
worth argues, there is a wide field of
Australian development free of depend-
ence upon the uncertain, uncontrollable
factor of overseas earnings where a
slump in wool prices, for instance, can
have a quite disastrous impact. There
are huge areas of capital cities still
unsewered, miles of roads to be built,
dams to be constructed, slums to be
replaced and railways to be unified.
These make relatively little or no demand
upon export earnings. In turn they
stimulate private industry to provide
services and goods, again from internal
resources.
/'Ance this viewpoint is accepted certain
possibilities start to emerge. Aus-
tralia does not rely upon imports for
the three basics —food, clothing and
shelter. They are all under Australian
control and produced within Australia’s
boundaries. This means that there is a
floor beneath which Australia’s living
standards need never fail. To that extent
it is independent of external factors.
But to get distribution of those three
basics there has to be jobs. Limited
distribution can be obtained through
unemployment benefits and the like, but
this is unsatisfactory, as it leaves labor
capacity idle in a country with a lot of
development still to do. Once a drop in
external earnings halts or slows down
growth in those activities which depend
on imports, then logic demands that de-
velopment and growth should be stepped
up in those activities which make little
or no demand upon external earnings.
You can see the first indications of a
policy along these lines in the measures
taken since December by the Menzies
Government for political reasons, and
therefore without the obsessive preoccu-
pation with the balance-of-payments
position that has marked governmental
thinking since the depression years.
Under the compulsion of political
necessity the Government has “compart-
mentalised'' the problems, and on this
occasion directed its attention to deal-
ing with the internal situation as a
separate problem influenced profoundly
by, but not completely at the mercy of,
the external balances situation.
The only measure taken by the
Menzies Government which is likely to
impose any immediate strain on over-
seas funds is the investment allowance
of 20 per cent, to industry, and this, in
the long term, could be a saving. The
encouraging of manufacturers to
modernise their plants, even if it means
the import of capital goods, will enable
them to compete more effectively against
imports on the local market, as well as
improving their export prospects.


Where the bulk of the £30,000,000
income tax reduction will be spent is
anyone’s guess. But even if a propor-
tion is spent on imports, Australian
manufactured consumer goods must get
some benefit. The other measures seem
an attempt to deploy Australia’s
resources in a “compartmentalised’
fashion to create (1) employment and
(2) development without reference to the
external balance-of-payments situation.
The quantitative restriction proposed
on imports which compete too effectively
against what Prime Minister Menzies has
described as “sensitive Australian indus-
tries appears a frank employment mea-
sure. Other measures, such as £15,000,000
extra for housing, the £10,000,000 extra
for the States and so on are similarly
designed to stimulate growth and develop-
ment within areas that are virtually inde-
pendent of factors external to Australia,
On this occasion the Menzies Govern-
ment acted to get out of the political diffi-
culties made obvious by its heavy set-
back in the December elections. The
Government’s expert advisers—though
presumably the Government was re-
echoing their views when right up to
polling day its spokesmen insisted that
the internal financial and economic
policies they were following were dic-
tated by the external balances situation
—apparently made no protest,
It does appear that for once the poli-
ticians made their own decisions on a
basis of political commonsense instead
of economic theory.
WA ELECTIONS
A PHOTO FINISH?
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
A. CALWELL
Ebullient
The near certainty of a photo-finish
election has sent all the major parties
into a whirlwind of barrel thumping in
WA, but so far no clear issues have
emerged from the State’s busiest-ever
elections which culminate in polling day
this Saturday, March 31.
The men who study polling booth
figures and preference allocations are now
saying there will not be more than two
seats in it either way and the possibility
of a deadlock is being freely canvassed.
Liberal Premier David Brand is des-
perately trying to keep his Common-
wealth partner out of the field and his
Labor opponent Mr Bert Hawke is busily
trying to pull him in. Ebullient Mr Cal-
well made the most of his opportunities.
He repeated in every speech the argument
that State Governments like WA could
not survive without the Commonwealth
to give them disability grants and
adroitly dropped in the hint that a Labor
Government in WA would probably be
running in partnership with a Labor
Government in Canberra before very
long. He promised that under a
Federal Labor Government the financing
of the current standard gauge project
would be re-negotiated to give WA the
same terms as Victoria and NSW. “If
Bob Menzies set foot in this State before
election day, Dave Brand would have a
nervous breakdown,” he told an en-
thusiastic Forrest Place audience.
Mr Brand is battling hard to overcome
the damage done to his “State-Issues-
Only” campaign by emphasising that pri-
vate capital and not Commonwealth
finance is the best way to ensure
the State’s development. He is re-
peating the theme of industrial oppor-
tunity offered by his Government, but
the big question is whether it is a suf-
ficiently bread-and-butter issue to over-
come the dual handicap of a possible
swing to Labor and the electoral re-
distributions.
The water rates issue could lose him
the vital seat of Subiaco. His Govern-
ment raised rates last year on excess
water usage in an effort to encourage
householders to put down their own bores
for summer watering and thus reduce
the drain on metropolitan reservoirs. It
was a bold financial move, but those with-
out bores are just starting to receive their
new rates and Subiaco is badly hit. Even
if the Government holds all other doubt-
ful metropolitan seats, the loss of Subiaco
would mean a deadlock and the loss of
the country seat of Murchison would
mean a Labor victory.
If Mr Brand is defeated it will prob-
ably be because he has done too good a
job in Government. His industrialisation
programme is slowly building up the
State, but the first effects have not yet
been felt and for this reason Mr Hawke
can call it illusory.
TENNIS
TENNIS POLITICS?
From a Melbourne Correspondent
'T'here have been no sinister tennis
politics or ugly motives behind what
happened in the dispute between Mar-
garet Smith and the Lawn Tennis Associa-
tion. It is true that Margaret Smith’s
bombshell (that she intended to make
a privately sponsored overseas tour and
would not join the official LTAA team
to be managed by Nell Hopman) came
after she went to work for Bob Mitchell,
but Mitchell says he has no bias against
Nell Hopman, has not met her —she says
he has—and has spoken to her husband,
Harry, only once or twice.
The good intentions that have led to
the crazy paving are those of the chief
three concerned, Mitchell, Hopman and
Smith. Mitchell, who is Queensland’s
representative on the LTAA, is a success-
ful young businessman who has continu-
ally helped those whom he thought needed
his help in Melbourne in recent years,
notably the former Professor S. S. Orr
and promising but needy university
students. He himself missed the medical
course at Melbourne University in the
war and post-war years when there was
a quota.
Margaret Smith’s intentions are equally
unadulterated. It seems acceptable that
Nell Hopman did all for Margaret on the
last tour, except tuck her in bed, and
that this raised the eyebrows of the other
women players, making Margaret Smith
very self-conscious. She is a very shy
girl still, convent-bred and probably nor
worldly wise enough to have chuckled
with her team mates over the manager’s
ministrations.
Probably the chief sufferer is Nell Hop-
man, who has badgered the Tennis
Association for years for a women’s team
for Wimbledon and now that she has suc-
ceeded and has helped to find the poten-
tial Wimbledon champion, she has been
placed on view by the newcomer as more
of a hindrance than a help. Miss Smith
would not have gone abroad last season
if the LTAA had not been worn down,
over the years, by Nell Hopman.
The position now is that legal advice
to Mitchell and Frank Sedgman, who
has also helped Margaret Smith and first
brought her from Albury to his Mel-
bourne factory, has confirmed that under
the Association Rules her proposed tour
is in order, and the LTA President, Nor-
man Strange, has promised that an appli-
cation for a private tour would be dealt
with on its merits. The LTAA is cur-
rently having its rules examined to deal
with similar situations in the future.


POLITICAL POINTS
Mr MONK GETS COLD FEET
By MUGGA
LAURIE SHORT
Secret talks
Tn recent weeks Albert Monk, the presi-
dent of the Australian Council of
Trade Unions, has been having informal
and friendly talks with “rebel” leaders
in Melbourne on the question of the
levy imposed on unions by the ACTU to
pay for visits by “union” delegates from
communist countries.
At the moment he seems to have
achieved particularly friendly terms with
the Federal secretary of the Federated
Ironworkers, Mr Laurie Short, even
though last week the Federated Iron-
workers’ Association, one of the leading
rebels, reaffirmed its two-year-old deci-
sion not to pay the levy until the ACTU
gave some firm indication of a change
of policy on reciprocal visits.
At first glance there is no end in sight
to the row that has threatened to split
the ACTU into two groups: Mr Monk’s
group of Left-of-centre and communist-
controlled unions and the other group,
the Ironworkers, the Clerks, the Aus-
tralian Society of Engineers and 15 other
unions, which, with the Australian
Workers’ Union, could form an Aus-
tralian Federation of Labor.
But the signs that Mr Monk has got
cold feet and will surely do an about-
face on his previous policy of inviting
“unionists” from communist countries,
are clear. Not only has he shown some
signs of changing his policy, but the
“rebel” unions, while not in any way
changing their stand, have shown plainly
that they are in no way committed to
forming a breakaway trade union move-
ment.
Despite the undoubted deep feeling on
the levy issue the “rebel” unions have
maintained their normal working
relationship with the ACTU on industrial
matters (such as the coming case for the
Commonwealth-wide three weeks' annual
leave). This normal relationship has
undoubtedly been a strong factor right
through the argument in not leading to
an irrecoverable break.
Nothing in the nature of hard facts has
come from Mr Monk's secret talks with
Mr Short and others, but they do
indicate a willingness by the president
to get into the Moomba “let’s get
together” mood. At last December’s
ACTU Executive meeting, for example,
the following resolution was passed: “In
giving consideration to the proposed pro-
gramme of reciprocal visits to Australia
of intended trade union organisations,
and having regard to the importance to
Australia of the South-east Asian area,
this executive determines that the pro-
posed programme be substituted by the
ACTU acting as trade union hosts for
all the trade union delegates from the
countries represented at the Asian
Regional Conference of the International
Labor Organisation. (To be held in
Melbourne during November.) “We
authorise the ACTU officers, with power
to co-opt, to take immediate steps to
organise an intinerary and make the
necessary arrangements to carry out this
programme for pur international trade
union colleagues.”
This motion was subsequently en-
dorsed by the necessary majority of
Trades and Labor Councils and is now
the policy of the ACTU. Obviously this
is a marked change from the original
decision to invite Russian “unionists” to
Australia.
The shift in the ACTU Executive
policy seems to be due to four reasons.
The first is the growing strength of the
non-communist Right and Left in win-
ning union positions. This began with
the victory in the Waterside Workers’
Federation election of Mr Fitzgibbon
and was followed up in the Amalgamated
Engineering Union with the victory of
Mr J. McDowell. The second reason
is undoubtedly the financial weakness of
the ACTU, which, with the £15,000 or
so outstanding from the “rebel” unions,
is not exactly overburdened with money.
The third reason is the pressure Mr
Monk has been under by so-called Left
unions and communist-controlled unions
over the question of shop committees
and area committees in usurping the
rights of Trades and Labor Councils
A DOCTORS’ DARG?
bulletin
APRIL 1, 1882
M’Namara of Newtown
found a man dying of poisoning
by strychnine. He “applied to three
doctors at Newtown, but could get
none to attend to the man.” We believe
the local Debating Society is going to
discuss the question: “Which of these
three, think you, was this man's
neighbor?” We give it up.
A man the other day advertised for
a lark that he had found “a purse
containing money,” and invited appli-
cants to call. The first day he had two
clergymen, a widow, an Irish washer-
woman, and a boy of ten. All readily
identified the purse, but the clergymen
were the most positive. What staggered
the advertiser was that no policeman
called.
A man died in a lonely shanty on the
Wilcannia road. His son came
along to bury the corpse. There was
no clergyman handy, so Mr Chain-
Lightning, the boss of the ranch, put
on his dirtiest clothes, and offered to
parsonally superintend the burial. The
difficulty of his responsibilities only
occurred to him when the dutiful son
of the deceased asked him to read
prayers over the body. “There ain't
no prayer-book in the shanty,” pro-
tested Chain-Lightning, “and I don’t
know any hymns except ‘Mary had a
little lamb.’ ” “Got any other books?”
asked the son. “There’s ‘Gulliver's
Travels,’ ” replied C.-L. “That’ll do,”
rejoined the son. “Pitch the old man
some o’ that ; he's gone where Gulliver
never travelled.” And it was so. Fact.
Tp very where they're imitating The
Bulletin. First Melbourne tried to
copy it ; then NZ, in two or three
places, started papers ostensibly on its
lines. Adelaide followed suit. Nearly
every paper in NSW essayed to swim
in its wake to a greater or less extent.
And now Queensland has produced an
imitation of this journal. The new
paper calls itself the “Queensland
Bulletin.” It is run by Spencer Browne,
late of the Cooktown “Herald,” and
“Dr” Hamilton, late of the Hodgkin-
son, and a great many other places.
Hamilton is an MLA, and the Gov-
ernment Whip. If he can fight well, at
least as well as his mate can sling ink,
the success of the papers appears to be
placed beyond any question.


jn d the ACTU over the conduct of
industrial disputes. (See Mugga last
week). He needs the Right-wing unions
in this struggle, and he is too much of
a n old hand not to realise it.
The fourth and less well-known reason
is probably the unwillingness of Mr
Monk to allow himself to be attacked by
delegates from the International Con-
jfederation of Free Trade Unions when
Ihe goes on his inevitable overseas trips.
(Although for the first time since the
formation of the ICFTU in 1947 he will
not attend this year’s annual meeting in
Europe because of ill-health.) Australia
has long been the laughing stock of
ICFTU affiliates over its policy of
“peaceful co-existence” with communist
countries’ “union” organisations.
But the “rebel” unions, while showing
signs of increasing friendship to the
ACTU, will still demand a clear guaran-
tee, in the form of some black and white
executive resolution, that Mr Monk and
his executive will not in future invite
any communist “union” officials to Aus-
tralia and will not accept any invitations
to sponsor official ACTU delegates over-
seas.
My betting is that some way will be
found for the “rebel” unions to attend
the ACTU congress next year. Whatever
agreement is reached by Mr Monk and
the rebels remains to be seen. But what
is certain is that there will be no chance
of a doublecross by the executive. If
there is this would lead immediately to
a permanent split.
NUDISM
PURSUING THE NAKED TRUTH
FROM A SyDNEY CORRESPONDENT
“117 E nudists don’t give in easily,” Mr
John Boswell said this week. “We
are looking forward to the opening of the
New Sunspot in Brisbane to make up for
Commissioner Bischof’s closing down the
old Sunspot Club in Deception Bay.” (See
Bulletin, March 24.) Mr Boswell, mar-
ried with two children and a Bachelor
of Economics, is secretary of the Aus-
tralian Federation of Sun Clubs, an
organisation of 10 nudist clubs (out of
Australia’s known 14). He had returned
to Sydney after a weekend in Brisbane
with the federation’s legal adviser, Syd-
ney barrister Mr Bruce Miles.
They had a busy time in Brisbane as
Mr Boswell attended three meetings of
nudists called to consider what line of
action could be taken against the Police
Commissioner’s action in closing the
Brisbane club. The meetings, of course,
were held without clothes. Words such
as “tyrannical,” and “brutally cunning”
were used by Mr Boswell to describe
Commissioner Bischof’s action.
Mr Boswell’s main complaint was that
the Sunspot Club had been closed only
because the Commissioner had threatened
to prosecute the Sunspot Club members’
children, and not the nudists themselves.
The children, too, practise nudism along
with their parents of a weekend and the
club has something of the atmosphere
of a family affair. “They love it,” Mr
Boswell told us. “We can’t fight with our
children in the front line,” he said. “That’s
why we had to close it.” On what charge
Mr Bischof was going to prosecute the
children has never been made clear ; but
he was reported at the weekend to have
said: “If you do not disband the club
I shall take immediate action to have the
children charged before the Courts to-
morrow.” When asked on what grounds,
he is reported to have said: “You are
not to question me. I’m telling you. I am
the prosecutor. You can find out the
charge in court.”
As far as Mr Boswell has been able to
discover, there is actually no definition of
nudity under Australian law. Police
normally ensure that the nudists’ clubs
are properly conducted and providing
there is no “funny business” they are
allowed to nude in peace. In the
federation’s clubs, members are tightly
screened. They may attend one gather-
ing of nudists but the second time up
“they must strip like the rest of us. This
is to discourage the wrong element from
making use of our clubs. The use of
cameras, too, is tightly controlled and
members eschew alcohol. No undue dis-
play of affection even between husband
and wife is permitted.” First names only
is the rule; mainly to preserve the
anonymity which some of them prefer.
In New South Wales there are five
clubs ; four in Sydney and one in New-
castle and the federation claims mem-
bership of around 3000 (including chil-
dren), half of whom are in NSW. They
produce a magazine, “Solax”, six times a
year which sells around 14.000 an issue.
In Queensland, Mr Boswell has re-
ceived strong support from Tom Truman,
the political scientist, and from members
of the Queensland University’s Ration-
alist Club. (When quite a number of
Brisbane’s population was at church on
Sunday night, the Rationalists were de-
bating the question “Should nudism be
banned.”) The Queensland nudists were
most vocal about what they consider to
be an attack on their civil liberties. One
woman practitioner, married with two
teenage children, told a reporter: “We
are merely exercising our rights. The
meeting (on Sunday) will indicate that
nudism is not dead in Brisbane —and will
not die.” A male nudist also stated: “We
want to indicate to other nudists that we
are not being pushed under.”
AIRLINES
THE STRIKE
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
'T'he strike in Western Australia began
when Captain Keith McCulloch was
dismissed by the company, Macrobertson
Miller Airline, on the grounds that his
broken ankle was not likely to recover
sufficiently for him to operate the foot
brake on the company’s main aircraft,
the old workhorse DC3s. The Air Pilots
Federation claimed that the medical evi-
dence available only days before the
strike suggested that he would recover
the full use of his ankle.
The pilots came out on strike at the
direction of the federation’s Federal
executive and stuck to their principles
with a determination that showed once
again that pilots are among the most
militant trade unionists in Australia.
They were not shaken when one of their
pilots, Captain Peter King, was suspended
by the company the day after the strike
started for refusing to ferry a DC3 from
Port Hedland to Perth.
Though the terms of the settlement
which was reached on the third day
after the intervention of Civil Aviation
Minister Paltridge, were not made avail-
able to the Press, it is known that Cap-
tain King was reinstated and that Cap-
tain McCulloch will be reinstated if he
passes a medical examination.
The strike came as a shock to the
people of the North-West, who have
come to rely on Mickey Mouse Airlines,
as the service is widely known, to provide
their basic necessities. The company gets
a heavy subsidy for carrying perishable
goods to the North-West in the wet
season and operates a station run that
supplies most of the things that make
life bearable in the outback.
It was a test of strength between the
federation and airline companies and the
federation unquestionably came out on
top. When the company threatened to
run its Fokker Friendship to the North-
West during the strike to supply mail
and other essentials, federation manager
B. I. Croft counter-threatened to call in
affiliated unions. What could the com-
pany do? By its victory in this dispute
the federation has strengthened its claim
to speak for the pilots of Australia’s
domestic airlines with a strong and mili-
tant voice.


THE LIQUOR TRADE
THE PUBLICANS v
THE PUBLIC
FROM A LAUNCESTON CORRESPONDENT
E. REECE
“Bring your own bottles”
It has always been hard to get a decent
-* 1 meal in the average Tasmanian hotel
and the meals in the average restaurant
would drive anyone to drink. Yet the
Government has again knocked back a
proposal to allow approved restaurants
to sell liquor with meals between 7 and
10 p.m. The only people pleased with
this decision are the hotel interests who
bitterly opposed the proposal, even
though it had the support of the tourist
industry and the Licensing Court.
However, it is well known that the
Tasmanian retail liquor trade would
drive any good public relations man off
his head. For example, bang in the
middle of the Australian Hotels’ Associa-
tion campaign last year to amend the
law to make it fit their interests more
comfortably, the publicans chose to add
anything from tuppence (for “sarse”)
to eightpence (for a “split”) to the charge
for the traditional dash in the customer’s
beer or spirits. This move coincided with
the appointment as Licensing Minister of
Mr H. J. McLoughlin, whose goodwill
is very important to the AHA.
Soon afterwards, a delighted public
Mas treated to a frank discussion on what
a visiting liquor producer termed the
“gross overcharging” by Tasmanian
hotels. He gave examples. The Hotels’
Association secretary J. I. Fahey pro-
tested that the public disclosures of the
mark-up M'ere “unethical.” He had, he
said, seen many price wars, but never
one in which an industry's trading
margins were publicly revealed.
No wine or spirit producer came to
Mr Fahey’s support. They were unhappy
about the margins of up to 65 per cent,
on bottle sales reported by the Hobart
“Mercury” and neither denied nor con-
firmed by Mr Fahey. A mainland wine
and spirit man told the “Examiner” that
only the 25 wholesale merchants (licensed
to sell in two-gallon minimum lots) stood
between the public and outright
exploitation.
The Licensing Court's proposal that
restaurants should be licensed struck the
hotelkeepers fairly in the teeth. Their
president, J. J. Reidy, protested that it
Mould “permit drinking without proper
supervision.” The Premier, Mr Reece,
came to their support and said that it
would still further increase the difficul-
ties of police in preventing minors from
drinking. In any event, he said, diners
could take their own bottles with them
to restaurants.
Caucus’ reasons for rejecting the pro-
posal had been “misunderstood,” the
Deputy Government Leader in the
Legislative Council, Mr Miller, told the
House. The party, he said, had acted
in the interests of the public, especially
the young people. All those whom he
had interviewed had opposed the pro-
posal, he added. Mr Miller apparently
did not interview several persons who
had written to Tasmanian newspapers
protesting, as one wrote, that there was
reason to '‘lose faith in democracy when
a Government ignores the will of the
people, the Licensing Court, licensing
police and many prominent church
dignitaries.” It was strange, another
wrote, that tourists who were accustomed
to have wine with meals would find that
in Tasmania alone they could not enjoy
this pleasure when dining at restaurants.
Mr Reece’s suggestion that diners
should take their bottles with them
was blasted by two reporters from the
“Examiner” who went on a round of
Launceston eating places with two bottles
of wine. All but two of the cafes and
restaurants refused to let them have their
wine with a meal. “The police would
run me in if they saw you," one pro-
prietor protested. Two others agreed to
let them drink the wine provided they
went to the back where they would be
“out of sight.”
UNIONS
VICTIMISATION
FROM A CANBERRA CORRESPONDENT
'T'ake the case of Adrian van Dyk. He
w'as sacked the other day at a con-
struction company's project in Canberra.
Mr van Dyk is a carpenter and by all
reports a capable one. But he was not
sacked for inefficiency, negligence,
absenteeism, or for any such mundane
reasons. He was sacked because he was
a man of principle.
Van Dyk had been working for about
six weeks on the building project when
the union delegate decided to have a
“show-card” day. In ordinary language
this means that the members on the job
show their union card to the union
delegate, and to each other, in order to
demonstrate whether or not they are
financial. Mr van Dyk w'as financial but
he belonged to the Amalgamated Society
of Carpenters and Joiners whereas all his
fellow-workers belonged to the rival
union—the Building Workers’ Industrial
Union.
Since the Society of Carpenters and
Joiners was formed in New South Wales
in 1952 these two unions have been con-
ducting a running fight over the bodies
of potential or actual members. Van
Dyk’s hitherto friendly workmates put
strong pressure on him to persuade him
to resign from his union and join the
Building Workers’ Industrial Union.
Rightly or wrongly, van Dyk refused
because he said that the BWIU was com-
munist-controlled and some of the money
collected by that union was used to
finance propaganda on behalf of the com-
munist party. The story should have
ended there, with van Dyk refusing to
resign from his union, but unfortunately
for him, it did not.
The foreman on the job then advised
him to agree to the BWIU representatives’
demand and resign from his union. Van
Dyk still refused. The next day the Site
Manager informed van Dyk that he
would not be allowed to work there any
longer as he could not afford industrial
trouble which the BWIU was alleged to
be threatening. Despite representations
by the officials of his own union van
Dyk had to leave as the company sub-
mitted to this form of industrial
blackmail.
Luckily for van Dyk jobs for carpen-
ters are plentiful in Canberra at the
moment. But if they were not. the story
would have been the same.


Around Melbourne
THE NEW BREED
CR M. NATHAN
£700
XJOTEL-WRECKING-VIEWING is a popu-
lar pastime in Melbourne. Indeed,
many a feature of some of our best
wrecked hotels have appeared in
famous movies. The bar of the
wrecked Occidental Hotel, for ex-
ample, appeared in “On the Beach,”
with Ava Gardner. But while
Melburnians have seen countless
city hotels being handled by Mr
Whelan, the wrecker, few of us
have ever seen a hotel being built.
So you can imagine our excitement
now that Pan - American’s new
Southern Cross Hotel is almost com-
plete. It opens for business on
August 24.
Even the directors are excited, be-
cause last week they chose to hold
their board meeting on the 14th floor.
Many of us were pleased at this new
tough breed of directors who were
prepared to walk up 14 flights of
stairs. However, a service lift was in
action specially for the day. The
electric button was not in action, but
directors like Mr H. Williamson, Sir
Arthur Smithers, Mr Ballieu Myer
et alia were able to bang on the lift
door and the lift man came down
from aloft to collect them.
But the appearance of the hotel,
that’s the thing. Exhibition Street is
a very dear, staid old street. Yet
this hotel on the Eastern Market site
at the corner of Bourke Street looks
as if it has come straight from Miami.
The main wing is covered on two sides
with ceramic tile which is slightly
bluer than a blue bag. Then at top
and bottom there is a curious zigzag
trim, so at the moment we are toying
with two names. We’ll either call it
The Concertina or The Blue Duck.
There is parking space for 300 cars,
plus 431 bedrooms and 90 shops. The
shops will contain the ultimate in best
class luxury lines, and, of course, there
will be a sauna bath. This means that
concertina customers will be able to
stoke up with calories in the
American-style soda fountain on one
side of the building and then get rid
of them in the sauna bath on the
other.
But amongst all officials there is a
terror of the new hotel being likened
to that hotel in Sydney (Chevron),
financewise or decorwise. Finance-
wise they feel it will be different,
because Pan-American has much
experience with hotels, and, in non-
American parlance, there is not a
cubic inch that has not been designed
to earn a quid.
Decorwise the object has been to
give the Southern Cross a Melbourne
atmosphere. In one restaurant they
are using some of the bricks from the
old Eastern Market, and the dining
room will have lashings of dear, old
Victorian cast-iron like you find on
the terraced houses of Carlton and
East Melbourne. The manager, Pete
Sutherland, of Texas, is already in
residence. Pete, until a few weeks
ago, was manager of the Hotel El
San Juan Intercontinental, Puerto
Rico. Now, there was a pub with 15
acres of tropical land, a private beach,
plus a night-club which featured such
entertainers as Harry Belafonte and
Marlene Dietrich. There was a
splendid hotel casino where every
night they played roulette, dice and
black jack. Because of local rules
they were allowed to play their rou-
lette and black jack only between the
hours of 8.30 p.m. and 2.30 p.m.
However, the Concertina will have to
close its bars at 6.15 p.m., so we be-
lieve that Pete Sutherland will find
Melbourne more restful than San
Juan.
T>ut if we are excited about the new
** hotel, we also are excited about
the new “thru” trains from Sydney.
We have been told that only four
people know the names for the new
trains, two Sydney Railways Commis-
sioners and two Melbourne Railways
Commissioners. The secret has been
well kept. Meantime the popular
game has been to “find a name.’" Of
course we have the inevitable “Sun-
downer,” “Boomerang,” “Yarra
Yarra” and even “The Spirit of
Enterprise.” But so far the railway-
men themselves have put forward the
best suggestion: “The Rip Van
Winkle,” symbolising the fact that the
railways are awakening after an
unconscionable time asleep. Whatever
the name, we gather that the “thru”
train will not be utterly “thru.” Both
engines and crews still will have to
be changed at the border. Apparently
there are excellent technical reasons
for this. We suspect that one of them
is that if any of our good Victorian
diesels go over the border they might
be knocked off in NSW. However,
as one letter-writer to “The Age” put
it, this little break will preserve a
status quo at the border, helping the
two States to keep, inviolate, their
independence. Furthermore pas-
sengers on the first thru trains should
be required to walk over the inter-
state bridge at Albury as a reminder
that State parochialism is not yet dead
in spite of thru trains between the
capital cities.
Tf you are thinking of buying
A some Mayoral robes take note of
what has happened in Melbourne. The
robes of Melbourne's Lord Mayor
have been handed down almost from
generation to generation. It has
always been the tradition for the
incoming Mayor to buy them from
the outgoing Mayor for £4O. Nobody
is sure who first paid the 40 quid, but
it was many years ago. During the
reign of Sir Bernard Evans the robes
finally began to fall apart. He had to
hold them together with a safety-pin.
The bitter part was that when he
retired last August, alas, in all decency
he could not pass them on to the new
Lord Mayor, Cr Maurice Nathan.
The 40 quid had come to the end of
the line ; he couldn’t recoup.
Cr Nathan ordered new robes. And
do you know the cost this time?
Seven hundred and seventy pounds.
Nobody was quite prepared for this
staggering rise, least of all Cr Nathan.
No hope of recouping from incoming
Mayors here. So the City Council was
asked to stand the cost. There was
opposition in the council until Cr
Solly put forward an unanswerable
argument. During his time of office
Sir Bernard Evans (a distinguished
architect of our town) had been out-
shone in ceremonial dress by Labor
Mayors from suburban councils.
This, naturally, was sufficient to
clinch the case.
BATMAN


SEND IT
ROAD
DAILY SCHEDULED ROAD SERVICES
To ALL Capital Cities
Throughout Australia
M
-vjfc
11
FOR SPEED SAFETY SERVICE
a
A MEMBER OF THE MAYNE NICKLESS GROUP
SYDNEY
HOBART
ADELAIDE
BRISBANE
69-6461
2-9701
45-4601
47-2131
PERTH
MELBOURNE
NEWCASTLE
CANBERRA
8-
30-4161
84908
9-
RADIO PICK-UP TRUCKS.
OBITUARY
TOM FLYNN OF
RUM JUNGLE
BY XAVIER HERBERT
XAVIER HERBERT
A fettler’s face?
OF all the old-timers of the Northern
Territory, Tom Flynn, who died last
week at the age fB4 and who was the
model for my Tim O’Cannon in Capii-
cornia,” was one of the very few who
really believed the country was good for
anything but chasing gins in. In his spare
time from working as ganger of the rail-
way fettling gang of the locality, he
worked ceaselessly on his little property
at Rum Jungle, mining as well as run-
ning stock. (Mostly he was in strife
through being reported for doing two
jobs.) He used to say: “The potensheel-
ties o’ this 'ere country's hunlimited.’"
Yet it was Jack White, who had no more
belief in the country than the rest of us,
who stumbled on the fabulous uranium
reef of Rum Jungle in Tom’s backyard.
1 first saw old Tom in 1927, when I
was sent down from Darwin to join his
fettling gang, which was stationed at the
77 mile camp, Adelaide River. I had
been warned that he was a terrible man
to work under, a navvy-killer. It wasn't
that I was looking for trouble, but 1
had heard tell of the wild goings-on at
the 77 mile camp. It was said that Flynn
could keep his men only by letting them
do what they liked in their leisure.
No one came to meet me when I got
off the weekly train. I had to trudge
down to the camp from the siding house.
There I found the gang sorting out their
week's supplies. All looked at me stonily
and only grunted at my “Goodday.”
I asked who was in charge. A short stodgy
fellow of about 50 who had a fierce white
sergeant-major’s moustache and terrible
eyes to go w'ith it, answered shortly:
“Hime the ganger.” He wore the flat-
top wide awake of the old-time fetder,
the faded dungarees, the Ipswich flannel.
Controlling my tearfulness, I said:
“I've been sent down to join your gang.”
Although he had a most musical voice
when he liked, he could be frighteningly
harsh of tone and he was then. He
snapped: “You haven't got a fettler's
face!” My heart was quaking but I
cracked back as harshly: “A man doesn't
fettle with his face.”
It was not till weeks later that I
learned Tom was tickled to death by that
crack of mine. You would never have
guessed by his stony expression that he
would go on telling about that meeting
of ours for years, bursting into a peal
of laughter: “An’, he says, 'e says —-
‘A man dern't fettle wiv 'is face’.’’
That very first night 1 was initiated
into the wild fraternity of Flynn’s gang
—without Flynn. He was never in the
fun. He lived in a hut deliberately set
far away. He didn't drink, and he didn't
go for the dusky lassies who were the
main cause of the riotous behavior. Un-
like others, who wanted all the “black
velvet” they could get, he had just one
dark-skinned lady, to whom he was so
attached that he outraged the convention
of the day by marrying her.
Everybody has heard by now of Nellie
Flynn, the “Bloody Parakeet.” She was
a lovely thing in her time. She came from
the Zappapan ; her mother a full-blood
lubra, her father a Chinese miner. She
bore Tom ten kids and more. Tom was
quite uninhibited in talking of his sexual
relations with her—always to the disgust
of those not-so-very particular fellows
who would have any gin out of the
blacks’ camp in their beds. Or perhaps
they were jealous of perfection of his
marital life.
He was a stickler for first-class main-
tenance of his length of railroad track and
I went through the mill like the others.
One day he took me out to “run the
length” with him on his trolley, a special
privilege, only to find myself dumped
down in the bush with a curt order to
cut a seemingly impossible number of
saplings (for the annual Railway Picnic
at Adelaide River) and have them stacked
beside the track by the time he got back.
Driven by hatred of him, l did the op-
posite of what the others would have
done, which would be to “snatch their
time,” that is, resign. I had the poles
there for him when he came back, and
flabbergasted him. “You’s a wizard wiv
a hax, son!” he said.
Eventually 1 became his mate and
always “ran the road” with him. The
others said that it was because he wanted
to marry me off to one of his “creamy”
daughters. Somewhat sadly, he said to
me one day: “Course a smart hediflcated
young fellow like you'd never have team
hup with colored fillies like mine, would
ya, son?” Gently I told him 1 wasn’t a
marrying man.
Now he’s dead, and I hope they'll bury
him up there beside his little homestead,
behind the jungle of pandanus palms, as
I did Tim O'Cannon, of "Capricornia.”
And 1 hope they'll fence it with railway
rails as I did Tim's last resting place,
make a fettler's grave of it, and put be-
neath his real name, that other name i
gave him, in which he is going to live a
long while yet, not so much through the
grace of my bit of talent, as of Provi-
dence’s gracing my existence by giving
me this odd, lovable character to make
mine.
SACRED TO THE MEMORY OF
TOM FLYNN OF RUM JUNGLE
OTHERWISE KNOWN AS
TIM O'CANNON OF
“CAPRICORNIA”
R.I.P.


THE NEW OIL DIPLOMACY
The Real Story
By J. C. HORSFALL, our Melbourne Finance Editor
There must be something wrong with
a country which when faced with
the economic event of the century
—the discovery of oil at Moonie —
can do little more than make carping
criticisms of people like the Queensland
Minister for Mines who backed his faith
in the search by buying a few shares.
Nobody seems to be excited about the
dawn of a new industrial age in Aus-
tralia, about the prospect of wiping £l4O
million off our imports bill, or about our
finally finding the one commodity needed
to make the country viable in wartime.
Surely the debate that should be raging
throughout the country is not about who
is making a bit of money in return for
backing the oil search but about what
should be done with Australian oil.
Should it be conserved in its natural
reservoirs until proven reserves have
reached the level required for strategic
purposes? How much can the Govern-
ment afford to spend in subsidies for a
rapid programme of drilling in the areas
adjacent to the Moonie strike? Isn’t
it time (I think it is) to be talking about
setting up a Ministry of Fuel and Power,
as in the UK? At the very least we ought
to be thinking deeply about the future
pattern of industrial development best
suited to Australia.
It now looks as if I was quite right
when I wrote in the Sydney “Observer” a
couple of years ago that the Government
should be spending as much as £SO mil-
lion a year on the search for oil. But the
puny amounts provided and the go-slow
policy of the Bureau of Mineral Re-
sources have given the impression that
the Government was in no hurry at all
to find oil. It may even be that the dis-
covery of a field at Moonie is embarrass-
ing to Canberra.
Tt is definitely embarrassing to the four
A international oil groups now domin-
ating the oil industry in Australia. Al-
though one cannot support the view that
these four groups Caltex, BP, Shell
and Vacuum have deliberately slowed
down the search for indigenous oil or
even, in one case, turned their nose away
from the scent of oil, nonetheless one
can see why they would be more than
content to carry on with the present
system of importing all their crude oil
supplies.
One might go even further and say
that their embarrassment is all the greater
now that oil has been discovered by an
overseas group with no previous foot-
hold in the Australian oil industry. They
are now faced with some very tricky
questions of oil diplomacy, questions
they cannot put off much longer and to
which, at least in the case of Caltex,
urgent answers are being sought.
Australia is a prize oil province for
the four international oil groups. Between
them they command all the refining
capacity (14.5 million tons a year) and
the greater part of the market and
if their sales of products to Ampol and
Sleigh (neither of these has a refinery)
are counted in, practically all of it except
a small quantity imported by Total Oil,
a subsidiary of the Compagnie Fran-
caise des Petroles.
As matters now stand every drop of
oil refined in Australia is imported. More-
over it is all imported by the inter-
nationals, including with them Bitumen
and Oil Refineries (Aust.), which has
refineries at Matraville and Hamilton, in
their own or chartered tankers from oil-
fields they either wholly or partially own
overseas. Caltex has a large (26 p.c.)
minority interest in Bitumen and Oil
and the right to lift its shareholding to
40 p.c. of the issued capital. It thus wields
a powerful influence with the company.
The essence of the advantages enjoyed
by the groups lies in the flexibility of cost-
ing crude oil to their Australian refining
affiliates Australian Oil Refining Pty
Ltd (Caltex), BP Refinery (Kwinana)
Ltd, Shell Refining (Aust.) Ltd and Stan-
dard-Vacuum Refining Co (Aust.) Pty
Ltd, in order of distillation of crude
capacity.
The advantages of flexibility arise like
this : the cost of producing oil in their
overseas fields is a secret known only
by the overseas organisations of the in-
ternational groups. But the crude oil im-
ported from these fields into Australia is
costed to their Australian refining
affiliates at the independently established
world price for crude, which is fixed at
US Gulf prices. It is no secret that the
cost of producing crude (in the main
countries supplying crude to Australian
refineries) is much below this world price.
Last year more than three-quarters of
Australia’s crude imports came from the
Middle East (Iran, Qatar, Saudi Arabia,
Kuwait and Iraq) where costs of pro-
duction are the lowest in the world, while
most of the remainder came from Indo-
nesia (23 per cent.) and British Borneo,
where costs are also very low. Clearly
then, there is big scope for ingenious


book-keeping on the score of crude pro-
duction alone.
But that is not the end of the scope
for milking profits from crude into the
books of the parent companies of the four
internationals. Another lies in the fact
that they carry the crude to this country
in their own or chartered tankers. No
wonder then, with scope for taking profits
on crude imports implicit in these
arrangements, that the overseas parent
companies can afford to appear genuinely
indifferent to the scale of profits made
by their Australian refining affiliates.
The big sums are done in Britain and
America.
Fikewise it is understandable that the
companies are seldom criticised, like
General Motors-Holden’s for instance
for repatriating exorbitant profits over-
seas. The major part of the parent com-
panies’ profits is taken before the crude
ever enters the distillation columns of
Australian refineries or the petrol pumps
of Australian re-sellers. This being so, it
is not very surprising that refining
affiliates of the overseas oil groups opera-
ting here do not quibble at the absence
of any protective margin for petroleum
products refined in Australia, nor indeed
at the level of excise duties, even at the
higher level set in the last Budget when
the last vestige of protection for the
refineries was also taken away.
But this cosy situation has been created
at enormous expense to the internationals,
expense whose corollary is that Australia
now has sufficient refining capacity to
cater for the greater part of local needs
of petroleum products. This is as high as
90 per cent, for motor spirit, the main
product, while in the case of some of the
heavier fuels the refineries have grow-
ing surpluses for export, the overall total
of petroleum exports last year being a
record £21.7 million.
Moreover the refining companies have
probably invested about £l3O million in
establishing the industry. Of course part
of this amount has been provided from
ploughed-back profits of the local dis-
tributing companies, but the bulk of it
probably represents capital inflow and as
such it has been an enormous boon to
the Australian economy in the last ten
years. It could be that the huge capital
expenditure incurred by the companies in
bringing into being the distribution
system has yet to pay off for them.
So one can understand the perturba-
tion in the board-rooms of the established
refining companies confronted with the
stark prospect of commercial supplies of
oil becoming available from Australian
oil-fields which they themselves do not
own and whose output could be pressed
on them by a Federal fuel policy aimed
to economise on crude oil imports in the
interests of saving overseas exchange.
When to this is added the problem of dis-
posing of crude surpluses from their
group's oilfields overseas, particularly in
present circumstances when there’s a
world oil glut, the internationals may
think they warrant a deal of sympathy,
which of course they are unlikely to get.
Faced with the likelihood of Moonie
proving to be a big commercial field the
internationals have had to do some very
hard thinking in the last couple of months.
And by the same token, the lucky dis-
coverer of oil at Moonie has had to take
a good look around to see where he is
going to refine and market oil from the
field. The established internationals have
to face the probability that in due
course they will have to use Australian
crude in their refineries, thus losing the
present unique advantage arising from
using crude from their overseas fields.
Clearly the next best situation to the
present one for the internationals would
be to own resources of Australian crude.
For that reason all four at one time or
another have interested themselves in
searching for oil on Australian territory
and all are in fact active, in various
degrees, in the search today. Possibly
one or two of them have been kicking
themselves lately for not searching
rather more intensively, particularly in
Queensland. But though an outsider has
beat them to oil in that State and won the
first round in the Australia-wide battle,
this is a game in which there are still
many chances of success for all.
r T~'HE present situation is probably most
A galling of all to Shell, which is now
entirely out of oil search in the eastern
side of the continent. This company was
active in oil search for several years
about 30 years ago in the Roma area in
Queensland and is reputed to have spent
more than £1 million in unsuccessful
prospecting and drilling around there.
Although a former managing director of
Shell, Mr E. N. Avery, now heads the
big consortium of companies searching
vigorously in the area, which lies just to
the north of Moonie and has already
shown commercial supplies of gas, Shell
itself has not elected to acquire a share
in it. In fact Shell’s only interest in
Australian oil search is its two-sevenths
participation in the operations of West
Australian Petroleum, whose permit
areas extend over practically the whole
of the sedimentary areas of Western
Australia.
Shell, with the largest share of the
motor spirit market, stands to be deeply
affected if it is obliged to draw its crude
from fields of an alien company in
Queensland in place of its own cheap
supplies from Borneo and the Middle
East. Moreover the bulk (2.4 million
tons of crude a year) of its refining
capacity is a very long haul from Bris-
bane, likely to be the terminal of piped
oil from Moonie, while the lesser part
(about 1 million tons) of its refining
capacity is at Clyde, a suburb of Sydney,
also some distance away.
So far Shell has shown no reaction to
the new situation but it would not be
surprising to find even that company soon
nibbling for a stake in the areas surround-
ing Moonie, say the Santos areas to the
west. Or is any credence to be placed on
the suggestion that Wapet does in fact
know' where oil lies in Western Australia
but is loathe to reveal it? If the latter
were true there could be some interesting
debates going on just now between Shell
and its principal partners in Wapet,
Caltex and Ampol, debates which could
go on indefinitely until the real import of
the Moonie field is assessed. For clearly
Caltex with its 4.4 million tons a year
refinery which supplies about one-third
of the Australian market for motor spirit
cannot be greatly enthusiastic about
upsetting its present arrangements for
importing its crude from Indonesia
(mostly) and the Middle East.
Possibly Ampol and H. C. Sleigh,
who buy their supplies of petroleum pro-
ducts almost entirely from Caltex and
have no refineries of their own, can
afford to look upon the whole question
of the provision of indigenous oil with
some indifference.
By getting its foot inside the door of
both its main customers Sleigh and
Ampol, Caltex has shown the most fore-
sight of all the internationals, foresight
which has gone even further in that
through its interest in Bitumen & Oil
Refineries and links with both Ampol
and Sleigh in the construction of a new
lube oil refinery at Kurnell, Caltex has
tentacles in all aspects of the oil industry
including petrochemicals.


In fact the only trick that Caltex has
not taken ahead of the others is in the
finding of an oilfield. Buoyed perhaps by
the strike at Rough Range in 1953 or
simply by the more favorable geological
features of its vast Western Australian
permit area, Caltex has put its full effort
into oil search in that State, not that it
has spent much money on it in the last
two years since Shell has provided all the
funds used in Wapet’s search since it
bought its two-sevenths interest in that
company in 1959.
Plenty of opportunities have come and
gone for buying into exploration efforts
in Queensland in the last few years,
including the Surat Basin. Caltex has
taken no direct interest in this nor in
any other area in Queensland or the
other eastern areas more adjacent to its
refinery prior to the discovery at Moonie.
The most it can claim in eastern Austra-
lia now is two indirect interests through
H. C. Sleigh (it has 18 per cent, of the
voting strength in Sleigh) and Bitumen
and Oil Refineries (it owns 26 per cent, of
this company). Sleigh has a 10 per cent,
stake in the kingdom ruled by Mr Avery
around Roma and Boral 20 per cent,
of Oil Development which has a promis-
ing permit area to the north of Roma.
Though it is rather late in the day per-
haps, at present Caltex is negotiating with
Woodside (Lakes Entrance) for a par-
ticipation in the latter’s forthcoming
floatation, Mid-Eastern Oil N.L., which
has wide areas under preliminary search
(but not drilling yet) in an extensive area
to the south of the Moonie field.
The other two internationals, BP and
Vacuum, have, like Shell, so far been left
out in the cold by the strike at Moonie.
Not that these two groups have been
dilatory in the search for oil in Aus-
tralian territory. For between them BP
and Vacuum have spent more than half
the £7O million or so already sunk in
the quest for oil. The bulk of BP
Vacuum’s outlay has been a joint effort
over more than 40 years in Papua-New
Guinea. They virtually pulled out of this
area a couple of years ago leaving the
field to Oil Search, their former partner
and now the majority shareholder in the
two operating companies, Australasian
Petroleum and Island Exploration.
But while BP and Vacuum have
practically given up the ghost in Papua-
New Guinea they are still active partners
(with Interstate Oil) in Frome-Broken
Hill, a proprietary with vast permit areas
in three States, including the Western
district of Victoria, where the company
is in the process (not very active at the
moment) of proving the extent of the
natural gas field located at Port Campbell
in December, 1959.
Although it is perhaps understandable
that Shell, which is up for heavy expen-
diture through Wapet in the West, has
not reacted more strongly to the Moonie
discovery, it is surprising that BP and
Vacuum have not. There’s not been a
word from Frome-Broken Hill or any stir-
ring among its rigs. Nor does it seem that
any of these three have been casting
glances at any permit areas in Queens-
land or northern New South Wales.
It has always seemed odd that BP
failed to follow up the building of its
3.5 million tons a year Kwinana refinery
by entering the search for oil in Western
Australia, at any rate in the Perth basin
in which the refinery lies. The reason
may be of course that in the early
19505, BP in fact meant what it said in
saying Kwinana was sited to be within
easy access to its own lucrative fields in
the Middle East, notably the then rapidly
developing Kuwait. The possibility of
finding oil in WA didn’t come into it.
Equally it may be surprising that
Vacuum, which is building a new 1.9
million tons a year refinery at Hallets
Cove near Adelaide —it already has a 2.4
million tons a year plant at Altona,
Victoria —hasn’t sought an interest in the
new company, Beach Petroleum, now
drilling near Adelaide or even in the
permit area of General Exploration of
Australia in the south-east corner of
South Australia.
Apparently all the internationals except
Caltex have elected to await develop-
ments at Moonie before giving overt
recognition to the possibility that in the
forseeable future profit reaping from
their Australian oil interests is going to
be less and less an international exercise
and more and more a strictly Australian
one in which costing of crude gradually
ceases to be based on overseas supplies.
But while the old order may be
threatened by the successful entry of the
Union Oil-Kern County combination,
which carries all the cost burden in
developing the Moonie field and shares
the oil profits after costs 80 p.c.—2o p.c.
with A.O.G. (giving the Australian com-
pany more than a straight 20 p.c.)—the
internationals still have most of the aces
in their hands.
Now that Sleigh seems to stay in the
Caltex orbit there only remains Ampol,
Total, Amoco and Phillips for Kern to
look at as uncommitted marketing com-
panies. Of these it looks extremely
doubtful whether Ampol would defect
from the Caltex group. Caltex has only
a 31 per cent, share in the equity of
Ampol but there is a strong community
of interests between them, the joint lube
oil project, Caltex’s chartering of Ampol
tankers and so on.
Doubtless Caltex is working overtime
to cement its present links. But the
temptation would still be great for Ampol
to link in some way with Kern, marry-
ing its ready-made and rapidly growing
marketing set-up with Kern’s “bountiful”
supplies of local crude and consummating
the deal in a giant Queensland refinery
project. None of the other three uncom-
mitted companies, Total, Phillips and
Amoco, have the same sort of gifts to
bring as Ampol, whose profits, inciden-
tally, are now uniquely of the home-made
variety.


DRY IN BOMBAY
From DAVID McNICOLL
*<-■ —*v rink of delight, O’ well beloved,
I 1 and garland thy might with
happiness.”
This stimulating piece of
advice splashed in Omar Khayyam-type
printing across the ballroom wall of the
Taj Mahal Hotel at Bombay is not to be
taken lightly. Because in Bombay today
it is easier to drink of delight than it
is to drink of alcohol.
I never thought that I would view
objectively, and indeed with some
equanimity, the prospect of spending a
day or two in a dry town. I will not go
into the clinical happenings which have
achieved this state of affairs—sufficient
that my reluctant teetotalism results
from a round table conference between
my liver, an eminent Macquarie St
physician, and myself.
It is, of course, possible to drink in
Bombay, and has been since prohibition
came to the million strong city in
1950. You can get a special permit
(Heads of State, etc.), a visitor’s permit,
or an interim permit. Apparently the
official view is that foreign sovereigns
have a tough enough job anyway without
having to add abstinence to the burden.
But if you are a casual visitor and
declare that you cannot carry on with-
out the stuff coursing through the blood-
stream in reasonable quantities, then you
get a permit which enables you to have
a dram or two. While your metabolism
generally might improve immediately
you obtain the permit and start drinking,
your heart may not be so fortunate. It
is in for a major shock —the whisky costs
you about £A7 10s. a bottle!
The scene which is set for the some-
what furtive sites of Bacchus is described
on the Taj Mahal register as the “Permit
Room.” “Our Permit Room,” says the
message, “is the cocktail time rendezvous
of cosmopolitan visitors to Bombay. An
excise officer is on duty in the Permit
Room.” This is something to set the
blood racing. Visualise the whooping
array of celebrants, permit applications
in hand, dancing gaily round the excise
officer as he breaks another seal and
hands out another Johnny Walker. The
senses reel.
For the local inhabitant, unable to
obtain permits, the problem of liquor
and its acquisition brings, regrettably, a
head-on clash with authority. But despite
the road blocks and the car searches,
despite the raids on the homes of suspec-
ted tosspots certain free souls in this
lively port want liquor and will have
liquor willy-willy. The main smuggling
comes from Goa—or has in the past.
The only Portugee, realising that he had
a ready-made contraband market close
at hand, sold liquor freely to the
smugglers. These gentry bear little
resemblance to Frank Nitti and his fellow
henchmen, who suffer weekly indignities
at the hands of Elliot Ness. They are
piratical looking chaps, with sturdy
dhows instead of 1930 Maxwells, and
they load their craft to the gunwales in
Goa and sail furtively by night to pre-
arranged rendezvous on the coast near
Bombay. But this source of supply is
now in jeopardy. Mr Nehru has “libera-
ted” Goa, and the amiable Portuguese
will no longer be able to supply the
bootleggers with their previous cargoes.
“It is going to be desperate from now on”
said one despairing Indian whose source
of supply has given him notice. But he
nevertheless conceded that the ingenuity
of the bootlegger would undoubtedly find
another way to bring the imprisoned sun-
shine into Bombay.
"Oombay is a city I have seen intermit-
tently over the past five years. This
time I was struck most forcibly by the
general air of prosperity and develop-
ment, the comparative absence of beggars,
and the widespread attitude—almost of
benevolence —to the European.
“This is true,” said one of India's
industrial giants as we sat on the
verandah of his superb house perched
high on Malabar Hill. “New industries
are starting every day. Chemicals, textiles,
steel. The development is absolutely
amazing. Of course the advantages to
overseas capital of investing in India is
obvious. Not only is the labor available
for industry, but the ready-made market
is waiting.”
There is a feeling of purpose, of get-up
and go, of impatience to get ahead, which
becomes very obvious to the visitor. Huge
new buildings are rearing up in Bombay,
roads are being widened and rebuilt,
housing is being tackled with imagina-
tion and speed. All this obvious pros-


perity transmits itself to the Indian and
[s reflected in his bland and often naive
pride. But it is a pride well justified,
fhe Indians are determined to come
good. They try hard, really hard, and
a re not satisfied with their best effort,
because they feel that their best effort
might not be as good as a European
second-best. One Australian, discussing
the excellent Air India Service with one
of its top men, said “Your airline is as
pood as any flying today.” The Indian
replied: “When an Asian airline is in
competition with European airlines, it is
jot sufficient to be as good as them. We
have to be better than them.”
The ancient Taj Mahal Hotel, a great
prey stone mausoleum, is still the centre
of Bombay. A new hotel —completely air
conditioned as opposed to the part air
conditioned Taj—is open on the marine
drive. This is the Nataraj—a popular
place with Americans ; more so than to
the Sahibs, who prefer such ghosts of
their past glory as flit through the
passages of the Taj. The British residents
of India are today probably better liked
-and are, one hears, more numerous
than ever before. Their relations with
Indians are cordial, mutually trustful, and
scrupulously polite. The Bombay clubs
which were once fortresses of the white
Raj are now open to Indians. The
famous Willingdon Club, the Yacht
Club: today you will see the eminent and
rich of the Indian community at the
golf tee and the card table. It has all
worked out smoothly and pleasantly and
without much apparent feeling. If there
ire remnants of British “chaps out East”
who feel that the end of the world has
tome with this integration they are wise
tnough to keep silent tongues ; for they
ire now guests in the land.
The food of Bombay I find of infinite
attraction —but then I like hot food. My
friend, Adi, having ascertained this fact,
spent 48 hours trying to remove the
roof of my mouth with a succession of
the spiciest, hottest and most succulent
dishes I have ever consumed. My
favorite, I think, was the Punjabi dish,
Chicken tandouri, which comes colored
red and hot enough to satisfy Dante. The
dishes called for copious draughts of
liquid. I found the best thirst quencher
was coconut milk. We would pull up at
one of the stalls which dot the marine
drive, the vendor would top off the
coconut top, insert a straw, and presto!
the thirst would disappear.
"Bombay is a pleasant place to explore.
13 The beautiful lives alongside the ugly,
the grotesque cheek by cheek with the
picturesque. My guide to the Hanging
Gardens on Malabar Hill took me, with
obvious enjoyment, to the Tower of
Silence, where Parsee dead are picked
clean by vultures for their bones to fall
down the shaft into the sea. But there
are not enough bodies these days. Maybe
only five a week. So the Parsees have to
feed the buzzards with lamb to keep
them here and stop them flying away. I
checked this later with my friend Adi,
himself a Parsee. “It is true,” he said
and shuddered, “take me to Sydney when
I die.”
The elections were over and the con-
gress party safely back. Huge signs (in
paint) “Vote Menon” were daubed on
hundreds of stone suburban fences. It
gave the propertied of Bombay an addit-
ional reason for hating the grey-maned
Svengali of India. On some fences, I was
startled to read “Vote Menezes.” This
seemed a wide net to be thrown from
Canberra —but it turned out to be a can*
didate in a local municipal election. I
drove out one afternoon to Juhu beach,
through Menon’s electorate, past the
superb racecourse, to the flying field
where Moths and Piper Cubs were blip-
ping up and down into the clear blue
sky (the March weather, incidentally, is
perfect like early Sydney summer) and
where ponies and donkeys were taking
children for rides along the somewhat
grey and muddy sands. On the way back
we ran into the crowds celebrating the
Moslem feast of Aid Es Seghir. They
spilled in their tens of thousands, in
shouting gaiety, across the streets and
parks. Here, in this tolerance of a
majority group which was fouling up the
traffic of the whole city at peak hour was
another instance of the new India. I had
thought all Moslems had quit India at
the partition—but how wrong I was.
They are in India in their hordes and
are received with tolerance and courtesy
by the Hindu.
Tourists in plenty are in the streets and
shops of Bombay. Cruise ships full
of “insurance widows” methodically
absorbing the sights and smells of India.
Rich women eyeing the' beautiful amulets
of semi-precious stones (in one shop I
heard a woman say to the shop assistant
“my husband will never forgive me for
not trying to beat you down.”) The
tourists seem to like what they see. They
are surprised at the mildness of the
winter climate and pleased by the variety
of the food.
Over Bombay the name of Tata seems
to brood. Tata enterprises of various
kinds fill three pages of the phone book:
they range from steel, through engineer-
ing, locomotives, hydroelectrics, textiles,
chemicals, oil mills, perfumes, printing
and investment ; to say nothing of the
Tata trusts which dispense millions of
rupees to research, good works, and
scholarships. As Adi so sagely
remarked: “Tata is the croupier.”
Somehow the immensity of India has
never been borne in on me so much
before. Perhaps it was hearing the big
industrial tycoon talk of India’s potential
market. He had been, he told me, at one
of his fabric dyeing and printing
factories the day before. The manager
had showed him a loom on which was
a pattern. It was a simple pattern, but
one greatly favored by Indian women
for their simple cotton blouses. The
pattern had been unchanged on that
machine for 21 years, and during that
time had produced 73,000,000 yards of
the same patterned material. Seventy-
three million yards —can you imagine it?
Give or take a mile, I work that out at
40,000 miles. And the machine was still
churning out the same pattern. That’s
the sort of market to have at your
disposal.


London Newsletter
LITERARY LIONS AT WAR
Or, The Two Vultures?
By JOHN DOUGLAS PRINGLE
'T'his is the first of John Douglas
Pringle s monthly London
Newsletters. J. D. Pringle is at
present Deputy Editor of the
“Observer,” London, and was
formerly editor of the “Sydney
Morning Herald.” Well known as
a writer in both Australia and
Britain he is probably most widely
known here for his controversial
best-seller “Australian Accent.”
LITERARY rows are always good
fun for the spectators. You can
watch the fur fly, the blood flow
with the sort of detachment you
feel while watching boxing on TV, plus
the extra satisfaction that you are really
improving your mind.
English literary lions (leo Blooms-
buriensis) are still a little quicker with
tooth and claw than the Australian
variant of the species, though no doubt
this is an advantage—like superiority in
cricket or tennis —which we shall soon
lose. Since I returned to Britain, for
instance, we have had the fierce onslaught
on Arnold Toynbee by Trevor Roper,
whose extreme unfairness was made
palatable by savage wit, the up-and-
downer between Trevor Roper and Alan
Taylor over Hitler’s war policy and the
gorgeous scrap between Professor
Palmer, of Oxford, and the archaeologists
about Sir Arthur Evans, of Knossos,
which is still going on.
Those, however, were battles for
specialists, for connoisseurs. This month
a new war has broken out in which any-
one who wants can take sides. The two
champions are Sir Charles !Snow,
novelist, scientist and sage, and Dr F. R.
Leavis, the austere, cantankerous Reader
F. R. LEAVIS
Telephone off the hook
in English Literature at Cambridge Uni-
versity whom many regard as the greatest
literary critic since Matthew Arnold.
It all began three years ago when
C. P. Snow —he hates the title Sir Charles
—delivered the Rede Lectures to his old
university at Cambridge. In these lec-
tures Snow first put forward his analysis
of the Two Cultures. Western society,
said Snow, was divided by the gulf be-
tween the old humanist culture, based
on literature and language, and the new
scientific culture, which was the domin-
ant factor of our time. The two sides
could not understand each other, but
the arts man was the worst offender. For
while the scientist at least tried to read
Shakespeare and understand Plato, the
arts man was not only ignorant of the
Second Law of Thermo-dynamics, but
was actually proud of it.
Worse still, said Snow —and this
applied particularly to Britain —although
the new scientific culture had been the
dominating influence ever since the
industrial revolution, the seats of power
were still firmly held by the arts men.
Vice-Chancellors, heads of colleges,
headmasters, senior civil servants and
Cabinet Ministers —with few exceptions
they were all chosen from men trained
in the classics, or history, or the law,
and, in consequence, were often unable
to comprehend the world they lived in.
This was one of the chief reasons why
the West was losing the struggle for
influence in the 20th century.
Ever since then Snow’s phrase “The
Two Cultures” has been a catch-word in
intellectual circles in England. You hear
it used at cocktail parties by people who
have never read Snow, and it has been
the subject of innumerable lectures and
debates. Moreover, it’s begun to have a
noticeable influence on educational
theory and practice. For Snow was not
content to analyse the disease: he offered
a cure for it. The cure, said Snow, was
less specialisation in schools. Boys and
girls should be taught a general course
which includes both science and the arts
up to the sixth form in schools, and it
was the duty of a university to try to
bridge the gulf between the Two Cul-
tures.
I’d like to pause here and say that,
personally, I think Snow is right. Though
a hopeless arts man myself who can’t
understand the first, second or third
law of Thermo-dynamics—if they exist
—and who could only begin to grasp
the theory of nuclear fission after an
hour’s special coaching from Harry
Messel, I am not proud of it. I believe
that an educated man (as Ortega y Gasset
once said) should understand all the
main ideas which have led man to his
present predicament. And though I’m
not convinced that scientists have any
better political judgment than the
humanists, I think it has been a handicap
that most of our political leaders simply
have not understood the technological
forces they were playing with.
But, of course, not everyone agrees.
There are still plenty of people who feel
that Snow is trying to turn us all into
technologists and that culture has noth-
ing to do with science at all. And this
month the humanists found a formidable
champion in Dr Leavis.
J>erhaps I had better explain who
Leavis is. Everyone knows Snow,
the author of “The Masters” and “The
Affair,” the successful novelist who
explores the corridors of power and the
closed politics of senior-common rooms
and committees with something of the
same patient, plodding curiosity that
Trollope brought to the cathedral close.;
(Snow, by the way, a kind and civilised
man, was also one of Sidney Nolan's
first patrons in this country, and has a
magnificent Ned Kelly in his Kensington
flat.)
But Leavis is a rarer bird. Retiring,
dedicated, hating publicity, he has spent
his whole life as a don at Cambridge,
which has resolutely refused to make
him a professor. His few books are
hard to read —and not particularly well
written—but his harsh uncompromising
personality and brilliant but craggy lec-
tures have left their stamp on a whole
generation of undergraduates. For li
years he edited “Scrutiny,” in its day the
most influential literary magazine in
England.
Today Leavis’s pupils and disciples —
in his case the same thing, though one or
two of them, like Wolf Mankowitz and
John Metcalf, have been seduced by
money and success and are now dis-
owned by the Master —can be found in
almost every university. There they lay
down the Law as handed down by Leavis
himself —a law of social commitment,


high critical standards, puritanical taste
and professional zeal; championing
Conrad, Henry James, George Eliot,
T. F. Powys and, above all, D. H.
Lawrence ; denouncing Virginia Woolf,
Thackeray, Day Lewis and, of course,
Trollope and C. P. Snow. They are
against commercialism, journalism,
advertising, the Sunday papers, academic
culture and literary dilettantism : they
are for a slightly mythical working-class
culture, of which Lawrence was the
greatest exemplar.
C. P. Snow represents everything Dr
Leavis dislikes in contemporary society,
and when the undergraduates of his col-
lege invited him to deliver a farewell
lecture to them —he is due to retire this
year —he seized on the opportunity to
attack. Characteristically he refused to
admit the Press, and the first news of the
lecture was smuggled out to the world
by the university correspondent of “The
Times”—in real life a distinguished don
whose identity is heavily guarded—which
printed a brief report next morning. When
the rest of the Press tried to get the
lecture Dr Leavis slammed his door and
took the telephone off the hook, but the
full text was finally published in “The
Spectator.”
r T' , o me, and, I think, to most people, it
was a bitter disappointment. The
abuse was there, all right. According to
Leavis, Snow is “portentously ignorant,”
“intellectually as undistinguished as it
is possible to be,” a man who had been
created an authoritative intellect only
by “the cultural conditions manifested in
his acceptance.” As a novelist “he doesn’t
exist ; he doesn't begin to exist.” His
lectures on “The Two Cultures” exhibit
“an utter lack of intellectual distinction
and an embarrassing vulgarity of style”
. . and so on for four out of the five
printed pages. But this, though occa-
sionally amusing—and one must admit
that at times Snow’s most earnest
admirers, if not Snow himself, have made
somewhat exaggerated claims for him
both as a novelist and as a bi-cul.ural
sage —is the language of paranoia. It is
only in the last page that Leavis tries to
answer Snow’s arguments or to put for-
ward a constructive thesis. This is not
easy to disentangle either from the per-
sonal abuse or from the long and turgid
sentences of the Master’s prose-style ;
but briefly summarised it seems to be as
follows:
Leavis accepts that the advance of
science and technology must bring
changes so momentous that mankind will
need to be “in full intelligent possession
of its full humanity” to withstand them.
This is not to be found in either of
Snow’s two cultures, the superficial
literary culture of the upper classes or
the new scientific culture, but in a vital,
creative response to life: “the creation
SIR CHARLES SNOW
Ned Kelly in Kensington
of the human world, including language.”
This can be preserved only by the t' idy
of literature, the study of one’s own
language in the first place—“a living
whole that can have its life only in the
living present, in the creative response of
individuals, who collaboratively renew
and perpetuate what they participate in
—a cultural community or conscious-
ness.” Leavis mocks the idea that wealth
and possessions can buy happiness for
man and jeers at the slogan “Jam for the
Indians.”
In the final passage something of the
genuine idealism and passion of this
awkward, embittered man rings out:
“Like Snow, I look to the university.
Unlike Snow, I am concerned to make
it really a university, something (that
is) more than a collection of specialist
departments —to make it a centre of
human consciousness: perception, know-
ledge, judgment and responsibility. And
perhaps 1 have sufficiently indicated on
what lines I would justify my seeing the
centre of a university in a vital English
school. I mustn’t say more now about
what I mean by that. I will only say
that the academic is the enemy and that
the academic can be beaten, as we who
ran ‘Scrutiny’ for 20 years proved. We
were and we knew we were, Cambridge
—the essential Cambridge in spite of
Cambridge: that gives you the spirit of
what I have in mind.” And with a final
blast at Snow and a side-kick at
Kingsley Amis (who has just leen
appointed a don in the English School at
Cambridge) and the Sunday papers, Dr
Leavis sat down.
Good rousing stuff, but what does it
amount to? My own view is that Leavis’s
ideas have more value in schools, where
his disciples have revolutionised the
teaching of English and have brought
poetry and imagination to boys and
girls who can hardly write a correct
sentence, than in the university. After
all, Cambridge is the university of New-
ton as well as of Milton, and my scientist
friends tell me that Dr Leavis is as
ignorant of the real nature of scientific
thought as Leavis says C. P. Snow is of
literary culture. Nor did Snow say, as
Leavis seems to think, that the Western
industrial worker is happier than the
Indian peasant. He merely said that, if
you give the Indian peasant the chance,
he's into that factory before you can
say Bob Menzies. (And it’s not much use
talking to him about spiritual values and
creative living until he’s had a square
meal.)
Still, it’s nice to live in a country where
someone still cares passionately about
these things, and I suspect that in t’ ;
long run Dr Leavis will have more influ-
ence than C. P. Snow. Leavis clearly
lost this battle, but has he lost the war?
“ What's the name of your biographer?”


OUT AND ABOUT
THE VIEW FROM
A TOTEM POLE
By PATRICIA ROLFE
American H. Allen Smith lifted his
slippered feet to the desk of his
cabin in the Mariposa and rested them
on a portable typewriter. He leant an
elbow on a heap of old-fashioned
reporters’ notebooks, which appeared to
be filled with old-fashioned reporters’
notes in old-fashioned longhand.
“I’m an old-fashioned writer myself,”
he said. “I write my own books.”
Smith, who spent three days in Sydney
on a Pacific round-trip, is in Australia, an
author with a reputation but no sales.
“My English publisher, Arthur Barker,
died about eight years ago, and nobody
ever took over from him,” he said. “So
all these interviews are wasted effort,
unless you can do something about
it for me.”
Smith is still best-known for his “Low
Man on a Totem Pole” (“Lord, that was
22 years ago!” he said), which sold so
well that it enabled him to give up his
reporter’s job on the New York “World
Telegram,” and gave him the freedom
to write his own books on his own
subjects.
However, he discovered to his great
disillusion that other, smarter people had
achieved the freedom of finding other
people to write their books, while they
reaped the fame and the royalties.
“This is something I feel very strongly
about,” Smith said, giving the type-
writer a slippered kick. “In fact, I’ve
done a book about it, called ‘How to
Write Without Knowing Nothing.’ I
wrote it myself. This thing goes back
a long way with me. At one time I had
a great enthusiasm for Thomas Wolfe.
This was about the time of ‘Look Home-
ward, Angel.’ Then I discovered that old
Wolfe used to take a couple of cartons
of manuscript along to his publisher, who
used to hack it about and somehow get
a book out of it. I decided that if Wolfe
couldn’t write his own books, he wasn’t
any good. Any waiter who has to be
rewritten and hacked about can’t call
himself a writer.
“When I first thought about writing I
had a wonderful inner glow about
books. I had an idea that other businesses
might be crooked, but that publishing was
a fine, noble and dignified calling. And
it was to some extent in those days. Now
I believe any publisher, no matter how
distinguished, will publish anything that
will make money.
“And the business of ghost-writing has
got completely out of hand. It’s all
right if the book appears ‘as told to,’
but take Errol Flynn. The publishers
swore Flynn wrote his book, then had to
admit that he didn’t. I’m sick of being
shoved off the best-seller lists by people
who haven’t written their own books.
“The autobiographies of celebrities
that the celebrities haven’t written are
bad enough, but the worst thing is the
professional writer, or so-called pro-
fessional writer, who has a couple of boys
to do his donkey work. There’s a guy
called Barnaby Conrad, who does books
on bull-fighting with his own illustrations.
He came to Tahiti to do a book with
illustrations. But he didn’t do the story
himself. He got a young man to do that,
and later sent the manuscript to some-
one in Tahiti to check. But the book
appears under his own name.
“I want to do a book on Chile and
Peru. I think I’ll get me a young man to
write it while I sit at home and rest.
And I’ll get me a young man to do my
book on Australia, too.”
Smith padded off to the telephone to
take a call from someone wanting to
arrange yet another useless interview.
“T’m a facile writer,” he said, without a
A blush, on his return. “If I get an idea
for a magazine article and arrange it
with the editor, I write the darned thing
the same night. Then I have to shove it
in a drawer for a fortnight. If he gets
it the next day he thinks, this can’t be
any good.”
Smith said that another change for
the American writer was the conviction
of magazines that no matter what the
writer did, they could do it better.
“There’s a well-known magazine—it’s
quite a small one—but it has 58 editors,”
he said. “On principle, they alter every
story that comes to them, no matter who
does it.”
Smith feels that the label of
“humorous” writer is something of a
burden. “If I say that I think of myself
as a serious writer that sounds rather
pretentious,” he said “but I do think of
my purpose—social satire —as serious.
“If I have an ambition left,” he added,
“it is to be read by well people. Most
of my fan-mail comes from hospitals, or
from people who have just got out of
hospital. Their friends go to a bookseller
and say, ‘I want something light for
someone who’s sick’ and they get handed
something of mine.”
He feels he has in marked degree the
prime attribute of a humorous writer—
a strong pessimistic streak.
“I was born with it,” he said proudly,
“and it saves me a lot of disappoint-
ments. If I write something, I say to
my agent, ‘lt’s terrible, nobody will want
it,’ and then if someone takes it I’m sur-
prised and delighted. If I go in a plane
I say to myself all the time, ‘Well, this
is it,’ and if we land safely, I’m surprised
and delighted. And, if we don’t, I can
say all the time coming down, ‘I knew we
would crash. I knew we would crash.’ ”
“My general view on world politics
is that sooner or later someone will press
the button. They keep saying ‘No one
will drop the bomb. No one would be
so crazy.’ But someone already has
done it twice, and it was us Americans.
Someone will do it again, and I’ll be able
to say ‘I knew they would.’ If they
won’t, of course, I’ll be surprised and
delighted.”
Although Smith had only three days
in Sydney, he spent a whole day on the
harbor. “1 regarded it as a sort of silent
gesture to Mark Twain, whom I regard
not only as a great author, but a great
man,” he said. “Twain came here when
he was more than 70. He had debts,
which an admirer offered to pay for him,
but in spite of his age, he undertook a
world lecture tour and to write a book
about the tour, to pay those debts. I
have read Twain’s description of Sydney
Harbor, and I wanted to see it for
myself. Of course, it is different now,
the city has grown, but it is still as
beautiful as Twain said it was.”
Smith originally planned to do one
book on the whole Pacific area. How-
ever, he stayed three months in Tahiti,
will do a whole book about it, and will
return to do a book on Australia and
New Zealand.
“When I reached Tahiti I had the
feeling that the whole place had been
put there specially for me,” he said. “Of
course, people keep saying it isn’t what
it used to be, but I met an old Swiss on
Moorea who had been there since 1912.
He said: ‘Everyone says, you should
have been here before the jets came, when
there was only one plane a week. When
there was only one plane a week, people
said, you should have been here when
there was only one ship every 28 days.
When I came here in 1912, they said, you
should have been here in 1900.’ ”
“Still, maybe the place has changed,”
Smith reflected. “The big event now is
the Monday night Rotary meeting.”


OVERSEAS
SEVEN YEARS' WAR
European Nation Will Ever Again
Fight a Long Colonial War
FROM OUR PARIS CORRESPONDENT
'T'he desperate resistance and lunatic
atrocities of the OAS in Oran and
Algiers should not be allowed to conceal
the immense importance of the Algerian
peace treaty. The long cruel war is ended
and an independent Algeria has been
born. France has been freed at last from
the burden which was crippling her
morally, politically, and economically.
Whatever General Salan may say, there
can be no going back and it is incon-
ceivable that European settlers fighting
alone in Algeria can do what the French
Army and nation has failed to do in the
seven years of war.
For this achievement General De
Gaulle deserves the highest praise. In
1958, when he returned to power, the
London “Observer” wrote that all
dubious tricks and dishonesties of the
coup d’etat would be forgiven if he could
bring peace to Algeria. Now he has done
it and done it far sooner than most ex-
perts believed possible. (Critics should
remember that in the case of Ireland,
the closest parallel in recent history,
Gladstone became convinced of the
need to grant home rule in 1885 yet it
was not until 1921 36 years later
that Ireland won her independence.)
The difficulties were enormous; for the
Europeans in Algeria are not a handful
of settlers who could be compensated
and brought back to France, but a nation
in miniature who regard Algeria as
their home and they had been promised
repeatedly that France would never
abandon them.
But if General De Gaulle deserves
praise, the Algerian leaders deserve
equal praise. These men, who for seven
years have been hunted, tricked and
imprisoned, who have seen their com-
rades killed and tortured, and their
families uprooted, have shown an as-
tonishing farsightedness and generosity
in making peace on terms which should
make possible more fruitful collabora-
tion between France and Algeria. They
have emerged from their long ordeal
as, in some ways, the most mature and
disciplined of all Arab leaders; and they
should have great influence in the Arab
world. If France, too, can forget the past
and act as a mediator and an interpre-
ter in this part of the world the task
for which she is in many ways well fitted
these two nations may be able to re-
pair some of the damage done to the
relations between the West and Arabs
since 1945.
But the cost has also been terrible.
This war of extreme cruelty has under-
mined the moral sense of both sides.
Frenchmen have come to take torture for
granted and to tolerate atrocities by their
own armed forces which they fiercely
resented when they were employed by
the Nazis. France herself has been
infected by the contagion of civil war,
although by an almost miraculous
chance, Algeria never became the theatre
of cold war, the West suffered infinite
harm by association. Many moderate
neutrals wondered how it was that
Britain and America could accept so
calmly what was happening in Algeria
when they protested so bitterly at events
in Hungary, Tibet and East Germany.
Fortunately, the determination of
General de Gaulle and the courage and
wisdom of Algerian leaders have given
the world a chance to make good the
damage. France should recover quickly,
and the removal of the Algerian prob-
lem, the last big colonial issue in French
politics, should enable the non-com-
munist Left and Centre to emerge again
as a vital influence in France. It is to be
hoped that General de Gaulle will see
the restoration of normal political life
as a great task which awaits him,
although the terms of the proposed
referendum raise grave doubts.
Historians may see in Algeria the de-
cisive incident in disengagement of
Europe from Africa. Certainly the
example of Algeria has been a warning
to those in this country who wished to
commit the British Government to the
cause of the white settlers in Kenya
and Central Africa. It is hard to believe
that any European nation will ever again
fight a long colonial war, though the
Portuguese may continue to put up a
futile resistance in Angola and Mozam-
bique. Yet there is one “colonial prob-
lem” left which the West cannot disown,
though it is no longer the sole responsi-
bility of any one of them, a country
where the white population is even larger
than in Algeria and where racial tension
is far sharper, a country which threatens
to end in an even greater disaster. South
Africa, sullen and alone, still has to
resolve fearful difficulties created over
centuries by fears and follies of white
South Africans.
The main provisions of the Evian
agreements are: (1) The Algerian nation-
alists have won the right to self-deter-
mination and with it freedom to opt for
independence from France. Military and
political prisoners are to be released.
French economic aid is to continue. (2)
The Europeans in Algeria are to have
their rights guaranteed. If they want to
leave Algeria they will be allowed to take
their possessions and capital with them.
If they stay they will be able to keep their
French nationality. (3) France’s oil in-
terests in the Sahara are to be safe-
guarded. The French Army reduced
from 450,000 to 80,000 men —is to remain
for three years. The Mers-El-Kebir base is
to be kept on a 15-year lease. Other scien-
tific and military facilities are to be re-
tained for five years.
REBIRTH OF
THE LIBERALS
By MARK ARNOLD-FORSTER
Tt is now plain that the British Govern-
ment, after two-and-a-half years in
office, no longer commands the nation’s
loyalty. It is plain also that Her Majesty’s
official Labor opposition does not
command it either.
In the three recent by-elections Prime
Minister Macmillan’s Conservatives
suffered three humiliating reverses. Mr
Hugh Gaitskell’s Socialists have not
done a great deal better. The overall
victor has been the Liberal party. In
the three by-elections—at Blackpool, a
holiday town in Lancashire; Middles-
brough, a steel-town in the North-east;
and Orpington, a dormitory suburb of
London the results showed that Con-
servatives and Labor won fewer votes
than at the general election of 1959; only
the Liberal party with six members in


the 630-strong House of Commons was
able to record important gains. The total
votes cast in the three by-elections show
that the Conservative vote fell from
67,965 at the general elections to 32,315;
the Labor vote fell from 48,374 to 33,054;
the Liberal vote grew from 18,012 to
41,729.
The figures suggest strongly that now,
for the first time since Mr Ramsay Mac-
Donald’s minority Government of 1929,
the Liberals have become a factor of
national political importance. They can-
not yet hope to regain their old, tradi-
tional status (they held it for 200 years
from the days of Sir Robert Walpole
until 1921) as the main alternative in
British politics to the Conservatives. But
their recent achievements show clearly
that large sections of a dissatisfied elec-
torate are now voting Liberal instead
of Labor.
Their outstanding victory of the
month, the one that worries the Govern-
ment most, was in London’s commuter
country. Orpington, Kent, had been
known for years as a “safe” Conservative
seat, inhabited by 54,000 salary-earning,
house-owning, middle-class citizens whose
allegiance had been taken for granted
by successive Conservative leaders. They
were typical, it was thought, of the
property-owning democracy which the
Conservatives claim to have created.
In 1959, speaking in what he believed
to be the vernacular, Mr Macmillan told
the electorate that under his rule they
had never had it so good. In those days
the good people of Orpington believed
him and returned a Conservative to
Parliament with a comforting majority
of 14,000 votes. Now, after two years and
six months’ further experience of what
the Prime Minister described as “Con-
servative freedom,” the sheep as it
were have bitten the shepherd. The
Liberal candidate at Orpington, Mr Eric
Lubbock, multiplied his party’s vote by
two-and-a-half, wiped out the massive
Conservative lead, pushed the Labor can-
didate into third place, and won the seat
by nearly 8000 votes from the director
of the Conservative political centre, Mr
Peter Goldman.
HThe Government’s emergency economic
policies have, in fact, borne harshly
on property-owning democrats. In their
attempt to stem rising prices and to re-
store Britain’s chronically uneasy balance
of payments, they have imposed general
burdens on the middle class. Successive
fare-increases (imposed by the State-
owned railways) and bewildering and
often unexpected changes in interest
rates (imposed by the Treasury on mort-
gages and bank loans) have tended to
make life expensive and uncertain for
commuters who have bought their houses,
and many other things besides, on hire-
purchase. The Government’s latest re-
strictions on pay increases have also
helped to make life harder for civil ser-
vants, many of whom live in Orpington,
And, like voters throughout the country,
they have been angered by the steady and
apparently uuending pressure of infla-
tion.
A FUNNY SORT
OF WAR
FROM DENNIS BLOODWORTH IN SINGAPORE
In the curiously timeless war against
the 22,000 will-o’-the-wisp commu-
nist guerrillas now terrorising South
Vietnam, the weapons and tactics
span 2500 years of history.
While troop - carrying helicopters,
American fighter-bombers, and 105
millimetre howitzers noisily uphold the
standards of twentieth century civilisa-
tion, in the jungles and paddyfields men
are also fighting one another with bam-
boo spears, mines made of condensed
milk tins, machetes and knives, and
booby-traps in the form of concealed
beds of rusty nails. Both the 'fietcong
(communist) guerrillas and the security
forces of the pro-Western Government of
President Ngo Dinh Diem can expect
to be disabled by anything from a heavy
machine-gun bullet to a whack on the
head from a medieval longstaff.
Very typically, everybody is busy
copying everybody else. The Vietcong,
operating from workshops in their jungle
hideouts, make passable mortars, rifles,
pistols and road mines out of tin cans,
old railway lines, gas piping and local
timber. Meanwhile, American teams
have carried out a careful study of tra-
ditional Vietnamese weapons to see
whether they have a major role to play
in the anti-guerrilla war. As one United
States adviser put it : “We are going
over these blowpipes, spears and stuff
to work out what the Vietnamese really
need. If we decide the native crossbow
is the ideal weapon, why, we will go
into mass production on them back in
the States.”
Paradoxically, while the Vietcong are
struggling to build their hit-and-run
guerrilla companies up into a fully or-
ganised field army with modern weapons,
the Government side is earnestly working
to break down its own conventional
forces into small independent units
trained in every unorthodox form of
guerrilla combat, for there is more and
more reliance on the commando com-
pany, on local civil guard and self-de-
fence corps sections which are encouraged
to operate by themselves and to use
every trick in the enemy’s book.
And matters are even more compli-
cated than that. Sitting in the command
post of a district officer down in the
communist-ridden Mekong delta area,
my attention was drawn to an odd
collection of implements stacked in a
corner. The district officer followed my
eye and pulled them out one by one.
“This,” he said, holding up a metal cup
with a tube fixed to the base, “is our
latest job. We’ve got such a clutter of
arms French, American, and even
Indo-Chinese that we have to adapt
ammunition or weapons all the time.
The cup, for example, enables us to fire
an American grenade from an old
French MAS 36 rifle with the aid of a
50-cent piece. But that’s nothing. Look at
this.”
He pulled out a contraption that looked
as if it had been put together in a scrap-
yard. “This is an exact copy of an Ameri-
can 60millimetre mortar, without the
frills. It works just as well and costs only
3000 piastres (about £l5) to make.”
I asked him why anyone should bother
to copy American weapons when the
originals were available anyway. “We
don’t have enough,” he said, “and also
there is hell to pay if we lose an Ameri-
can weapon to the Vietcong. So we keep
the American mortars safe in a head-
quarters store and use these instead.” Get
them from Saigon? “Certainly not. The
blacksmith round the corner makes them.
It’s being done all over Vietnam.” I
murmured something about patent rights,
but he was busy dissecting a breadfruit
and only giggled.
Elsewhere I found numerous do-it-
yourself area commanders, including
one who had set up his own work-
shop for making mortars, pistols and
mine's equipped with pressing and
cutting tools he had captured from the
Vietcong. It may yet be that this off-
beat war will be won by Vietnamese
operating with American weapons made
with communist machinery.


FORUM
A TOWN LIKE ELLIOTT
"There is NO Solution to the Aborigines' Problem"
By XAVIER HERBERT
ftEFORE 1 join issue on this matter, which 1 consider still the first moral
problem of our nation, as ever since that day the founders of it presumed
to ta\e possession of other people s property, let me give my qualifications for
doing so. It is a sorry fact that the less people kjiow about the aboriginal
blacks, the more they have to say about the problem of their miserable lot in
our midst. 1 know, because Eve had too much to say about it in the past
myself. It is to my credit that 1 have been silent in the matter so long.
I was born, early in the century,
on the north-west Australian coast, in
a place where the aboriginal blacks, hav-
ing in only the last decade or so been
driven out of their tribal lands and de-
moralised in tribal ways by gold rushes
and the putting of the lands to grazing,
were just settling down to that state of
demi-semi-civilisation now called “fringe
settlement.”
Where the aboriginal fringe settlement
exists, it is better known in these days as
“boongville.” It is a state that suits the
race so well that they have stuck to it,
generation in and generation out, even
unto this era of the bulldozer that can
wipe out every trace of them in half an
hour. Scarcely has the dust of the ’dozing
settled, when back they come sneaking,
like the dump-rats they so closely re-
semble, and all they have to do to
rebuild is to dig out the scraps of old
iron and bark and sacking. In fact, they
probably appreciate such a clean-up,
since it is after the style of their own
original system of hygiene, which was
to leave it to nature, to the fires and the
willy-willies and the floods.
Those I knew in childhood had it noth-
ing like so soft as their descendants of
today, who have full social service bene-
fits like any other citizen, and full citizen-
ship if they really want it, full pay and
all. In those days, they got a meagre
ration periodically from the police, who,
realists ever, often held it back, knowing
that it was not distributed equably, that
one blackfellow would let another die of
starvation who was not in a relationship
demanding his responsibility, that what
was left over from the initial gorge was
fed to the dogs, strictly within the rela-
tionship system.
For the rest they lived by prostitution
of their women to other races of men
and by semi-beggar/. Hiring out of their
womenfolk has always been of primary
fyAVIER HERBERT, whose
world - famous masterpiece
“Capricornia” has probably done
more than any other single book
to make people aware of the tragic-
conditions of the aboriginal race
in Australia, here attacks the in-
creasingly popular theory that
“assimilation” is the answer to the
aborigines’ problem.
importance in their economics. I say the
beggary was only semi, for the reason
that those from whom they begged knew
only too well that to give them anything,
food-scraps, rags, or the traditional
“tchillin-boss,” without making them first
earn it was to be dubbed by them a
“mungis,” a mug, and to be exploited by
the whole camp of them.
It used to be said, till people became
afraid to express their true feelings about
the breed: “The blackfellow knows only
two kinds of white man —the ‘cheeky
pukka’ and the ‘plutty fool.’ ” Cheeky,
in blackfellow English, means forthright,
tough.
Well, that’s how I knew the aboriginal
black in childhood. Observe that I keep
using the word black. It is important,
because there is an enormous difference
between the true black man of the breed
and the lighter-colored cross-breed. Most
of the contention in the issue is due to
the fact that most white Australians now
class anyone with an australoid cast of
countenance aboriginal. Nobody who
knows the breed has ever doubted the
capacity of crosses of it to take their
place as full citizens, given the chance
and having the aptitude. All those so-
called aborigines who make good by
entering colleges and doing this and that
which astounds the multitude are, per-
haps without exception, cross-breeds.
I suppose it was in my nature to pity
the wretched blacks I knew in childhood
rather than to regard them as scarcely
human like other kids of my acquaint-
ance. Or it may have been primarily due
to the fact that my mother, lately from
the eastern States, from a place where
the race had long since ceased to exist,
was “soft” on them. She was indulgent
enough to employ them as nurses for
her children. The result was that the first
singing I remember was the crooning of
blackfellows, and also my first illness,
which was almost my last, was gastro-
enteritis, a common disease of the blacks’
camp.
Later I lived in communities where
there were no blacks, and then in young
manhood I went to live in the eastern
cities. When I took to writing I had all
but forgotten about blackfellows. As
they were considered a rapidly dying race
when I was born and I had already lived
the best part of a generation, I reckoned
they must have become about extinct.
Thus, until I was moved through de-
velopment as a writer to think of going
back to my origins for the stuff to write
about. Instead of heading straight back
west, I decided to go around the top of
the continent, through North Queensland
and the Northern Territory.
I had scarcely got out of the metro-
politan region of Queensland when I
saw it again, the primary problem of the
nation—the filthy blacks’ camp on the
outskirts of every white settlement, the
black degenerates shuffling round in their
rags, whining for “tchillin-boss,” trailing
their snotty-nosed, fly-filled-eyed, starv-
ing children, trading their womenfolk —
the primary moral responsibility, and no
nearer solution, even through hope of the
race’s extinction, than as I had seen it in
childhood in a State that had no such
elficient system of dealing with its abo-
riginal population as boasted by Queens-
land and the N.T.
HThe result of some four years’ wander-
ing in those parts was my novel
“Capricornia,” said by some to be the
most powerful rouser of national aware-
ness of the problem in the nation’s his-
tory. Whatever the truth of what they say,
the book was not meant to do such a job.
I am essentially an observer of life, not a
reformer. The hideous conditions of the
blacks X described was designed only as


background to a story of which the
deep motive was the father-son relation-
ship. I doubt if I would nave been be-
lieved had I deliberately set out to ex-
pose the condition of things.
But it happened that I did try my hand
at reform in the matter for a spell. That
was during the four years of frustration
I suffered waiting to get “Capricornia”
published. Saying that in future I was go-
ing to deal in deeds, not words, I went
back to the squalor. 1 shouted my words.
I shouted myself into being officially ap-
pointed as a Protector of Aborigines, and
went on shouting till I got the sack. Then
I set about organising a system of abo-
riginal welfare of my own, in opposition
to the Government.
Such were my efforts during that
second four-year period that I became
hated by nearly every white person in
the land, from the missionaries whom the
blacks called “plutty fool,” to the police
who proudly classed themselves as
“cheeky pukka.” What did the blacks cail
me? Why, “plutty fool”!
It culminated in a row in the main
street of Darwin, between myself and
a white man I’d been friendly with for
years. He called me a “Black Bastard,”
and I called him a “White Bastard.” The
paper took it up. Fortunately, just then
“Capricornia” was published, by its first
publisher, the late W. J. Miles. So I was
able to retire, more or less gracefully, to
what I was obviously more fitted for,
dealing in words, not deeds.
I had several ideas for tackling the
problems in words, notably a book I did
a lot of work on, under the title, “The
King Against the Kurrawaddi,” synony-
mous of the clash of cultures. I scrapped
it all. 1 did not know for a long while
that what was wrong was that I knew,
but would not admit, that there is no
solution to the problem, at least no prac-
tical one.
1 made the admission at last, tacitly, in
“Seven Emus,” which shows full bloods
for what they are, a people doomed to
non-progress, the poorest of poor who
will be with us always, the “boongs” and
“stinkers,” to whose similarly doomed
children, not only the whites of Elliot
object as fit associates for their own, but
also their half-brethren, those people of
the new race, the Euraustralians (or cross-
breeds).
Those who condemn the people of
Elliott say that they are not giving the
black children a chance to get away from
the influence of their primitive parents.
Let those so ready to condemn take a
look at North Queensland, where black
children have been going to school with
white for a couple of generations. I have
been living in the region for upwards of
fifteen years, travelling over most of it,
from Cairns to Thursday Island, Innis-
fail to the Gulf. There is still a “boong-
ville” on the fringe of every settlement.
The official method by which abo-
rigines of the region have been prepared
for assimilation into the general com-
munity has been efficient even to ruth-
lessness for the best part of a hundred
years. It is as long ago as that that the
tribes were broken up. Then followed a
drive to remove young children from the
fringe dwellings quicky established by
the detribalised, and train them for full
citizenship at an institution set up on
Palm Island. So far from successful was
the Palm Island training scheme that the
settlement there was never anything
better than what it is frankly accepted
as today, a virtual penal institution.
TATowadays no one does anything for the
social advancement of the children
of the “Boongvilles.” The communists
make capital out of their wretchedness,
and religious bodies prate, both parties
often through the mouths of self-seeking
halfcastes, but no one really does any-
thing. When all’s said and done, the
children’s parents, for the most part, have
equal rights with other citizens. They
draw award w'ages when they choose to
work, otherwise unemployed benefit,
along with endowment for the starving
children and the usual pension for the
tottering alcoholic aged. The children
are compelled to go to school like any
others, or at any rate to be enrolled at a
school. The fact that such children live
in foul humpies because their parents
lack the will to build them proper homes
(some even live under trees for lack of
will to build a humpy) and feed like dogs
and with dogs because their parents con-
sider the staff of life strong drink, is
accepted by other citizens as the parents’
business, as it is in fact and in law. Lay
a complaint to the local Protector of
Aborigines, the senior officer of police
in a locality, about the condition of such
children, and you will be told that no
action can be taken unless actual cruelty
is charged. You can never lay such a
charge, because blackfellows are never
actually cruel to anything in the legal
sense, not even in selling their women for
grog and in belting them into insensi-
bility to let off steam, because the women
accept it as their lot as from time im-
memorial.
The children take to school well
enough, just as a docile horse will go to
water. The catch is to get the children
to learn, just as to get the horse to drink.
Your modern blackfellow knows that he
has to be able to read and write a little
in order to get his social service benefits
and prove he is fit to be “Exempted
Under The Act,” and to count at least
up to twenty to be equal to the tricksters,
of his own just as much as other breeds,
who’ll do him down for what he receives
over the post office counter and disburses
mostly over the hotel bar. Rarely do the
children retain more of what is drummed
into their curly black heads than just
that much.
But while it might be hard for teachers
to teach black piccaninnies, the teaching
of white kids by the little blacks, things
they’d best not know in their tenderness,
is easy. That’s the only thing most
white and respectable halfcaste parents
are afraid of from the association of their
children with black children. The camps
out of which the piccaninnies come might
be infested with hook-worm, ring-worm,
impetigo, pediculosis, gastro - enteritis,
TB, because there is no sanitation in
such places, no good health or concern
about it. But white and intelligent
Euraustralian parents can guard their
children against such things through their
own sense of hygiene. What troubles them
is the stockyard morality of the blacks.
I have said that formerly the basis of
blackfellow economics has always been
the hiring out of the women. They have
no such need to use it in their dealings
with whites now as formerly, nor indeed
the chance, with the steady depreciation
of lubras in the market of lust as the
race becomes more and more degenerate.
It is a very degenerate white man who
will touch a full blood gin of the fringe
settlements these days. But the pros-
titution goes on, amongst the blacks
themselves, as if they can’t do without it.
Such is the behavior of blackfellows
hanging about country hotels in these
days of liberty and equality for all, that
often a love match in the pub backyard
has to be put a stop to with a bucket of
hot soapy water from the kitchen, as in
dealing with rutting dogs. Although most
have access to bars and are rarely denied,
they generally prefer to do their drink-
ing in dark places out the back, round
about the latrines, at least for one reason
that they like to relieve themselves just
where they stand, like animals. Their
children will be with them, swilling soft
stuff till they get the taste for the hard,
full witnesses to the general rut, and not
infrequently participants in it.
I guess it was the known amorality of
those piccaninnies the Northern Territory
Administration tried to wish on the whites
and halfcastes of Elliott that caused the
protest, more than any physical unclean-
liness—only Elliott people didn’t like
to say so, since they were speaking of
children.
T et me finalise what I have been tell-
ing about how it has worked out
in North Queensland over several genera-
tions, by telling the story of one man
of my close acquaintance. I’ll call him
Charlie.
His great grandfather was
hanged in Cooktown in the 1880’s


Established Ifttj*
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
O'SOUJVAjV
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS Az OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE HAND i'ACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS ■; PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
•‘JACKSUL.”
BRISBANE
for the killing and eating of a Chinese on
the Palmer River, during the goldrush
of the period. The great grandfather’s
family group was dispersed. Charlie’s
grandfather finished up living on the out-
skirts of Port Douglas, when that old
ruin of a place, as it is now, was the
roaring port serving the mining centres of
the Tableland. Charlie’s father was born
at Port Douglas. By that time the civilis-
ing influence on the descendants of the
original cannibal was such that, as Charlie
himself put it: “My old man was so
smart, reading and writing, he was work-
ing in a store when he was fourteen. But
if you’d lost him in the bush, he’d of been
dead in a week—me, too.”
Charlie’s father got his education at
the Palm Island Settlement, to about third
grade standard. He was also trained in
timber work, and had good jobs in
various mills in the remoter regions of
the Tableland. Charlie himself was born
in one of the small mill towns, or rather,
in the blacks’ camp outside. He went to
State School, like any other kid, till about
the age of ten, when the family, consis-
ting of six. was broken up through the
father’s going to jail for killing the
mother. Charlie saw his mother killed,
but seems not to have been disturbed
thereby in the slightest. Apparently it had
been a fair fight, during a methylated
spirit drinking bout.
Then Charlie was taken by a church
mission, where he did so well with school-
ing that it was decided to make a mission-
ary teacher of him. According to
Charlie, he accepted the prospect in the
way of working a swindle, which he
claims is chiefly what most co-operation
of blacks with missionaries is. You go
into a mission and sing and pray only
to effect something smart, unless you are
one of the few “soft heads” who believe
what is taught. The morals in missions
are much the same as in any blackfellow
community, except for the fun of outwit-
ting the missionaries. So Charlie says.
The smart thing that Charlie had in
mind was to get enough education to be
able to make himself a big boss amongst
his kind, with the sole object of living
well at their expense. His prospects were
most favorable. At 14 he was sent to a
good church college in one of the bigger
centres. There he was treated quite well
by everyone, and even made much of
because he excelled in sport.
But a black fringe settlement was there
as everywhere in the North, and he just
couldn’t keep out of it, didn’t want to
keep out of it, because it was his natural
habitat. His comings and goings were
tolerated till he was sixteen, when he
took to the grog. Then he was given the
alternative of cutting it out or getting
out. Reckoning that he was fully equipped
for his chosen career, he got out gladly.
Charlie is now 30. He lives in a
filthy fringe settlement outside a small
sugar township. He has a wife and
four children, two of the children at
State School, when not playing in the
creek. Although a big man, he says he
mostly feels too weak to work. Nor does
he need to work, with social service
benefits and his cleverness in handling
his fellow denizens of the settlement. His
home is an old cane-cutter’s barracks,
long since condemned as unfit for human
habitation, but packed tight with semi-
humanity, because this race which I was
brought up to believe as doomed to
swift extinction is now even explosive
in proliferacy. Amongst his boarders he
has two old-age pension couples. Pension
days are party days, as also are social
service paydays and child endowment
days. Meantime, there is always his wife
to sell or a bit of business to be done
buying liquor for under-age boys and
such of the elders as are unexempted.
T got to know Charlie through a
tragedy that occurred during one of
the many parties. One of the - revellers
staggered, or was pushed, into the path of
a train and was run over. Such runnings
down of drunken blacks are not
uncommon. If it’s not a train it’s a car.
They are hard to see in headlights, in
which they look like phantasms, grey
ghosts, so that one is over them before
realising that what was seen was real.
I was impressed by Charlie’s excellent
speech, even in drink, compared with the
wretched blacks’ camp lingo of his com-
panions, and also by his forthright bear-
ing, compared with the others’ cringing
artfulness, in talking themselves out of
responsibility for the tragedy. Learning
a bit about his beginnings, I sought to
know more, in the hope of discovering
what was wrong with his breed that,
with every opportunity given them to rise
to dignity, they only become more and
more degraded.
I had to pay heavily to get close
enough to him to get what I wanted,
because he was even more deceitful than
the run of blacks, since more intelligent.
1 was to him the “plutty fool” of black-
fellow tradition, and he played me for
all he was worth, whining of never having
had a chance, of having no home for
his children or hope for their future, of
having nothing but the black hide he
was despised for.
But I sweated it out, got at something
deep in him, had him finally admit the
advantages he’d had and answer my
repeated question why he’d sunk so low.
He said: “We’re all beaten, us black-
fellers. We got no guts or something
now.”
I got on to the matter of shame in his
condition, which I d flogged in vain
before. He answered: “I only feel
ashamed when I think about that first cld
feller of mine, my great grandfather, the
bloke what ate the Chinaman.”
“You’d be proud if you were like
him?”
“Yes, I could be proud then.”
“You’d eat a Chinaman, too?”
“If I couldn’t eat one like that old
feller of mine, I couldn’t be proper
proud. I reckon that's what’s wrong
with us blackfellers. We lost all that, all
the sort of thing we only want —our own
way of living.”
So there it is, the solution to our
primary moral problem. They want. ..
“our own way of living.” All over the
world white men are giving back to the
original black owners the lands they stole
from them. Will that apply someday to
North Australia, where there are still so
few white's and getting to be so many more
blacks? Already the denizens of the
camps are overflowing into the towns, as
witness the intrusion of black piccan-
innies into white schools in places like
Elliott. If you lived in a place like Elliott,
how would you feel about it?


LETTERS
THE DLP CRIES WOLF
Sir,
Mr Kane's political mortification
(Bulletin, March 17) can be likened
to that of Benedict Arnold. In the latter
case, the Americans won their War of
Independence without him, whilst in the
former, Room 32 continues its run of
electoral successes minus its former
Assistant General Secretary, in general—
Mr Kane's attacks on the ALP are princi-
pally directed towards its foreign policy
and relations with the trade union
movement.
The Labor party accepts the Aneurin
Bevan theory that delayed reforms breed
revolutions, a situation that the strate-
gists of Moscow and Peking are very
adept at making full use of for their own
territorial designs. For that reason we
have never accepted some of the Asian
or African regimes, simply because they
claimed to exercise a brand of negative
anti-communism. Just as subsequent
events proved our 1957 Brisbane Federal
Conference's concern at the corruption
of Korea's Syngman Rhee, we find today
President Kennedy applying pressure on
the rule s of South Vietnam to take
effective action to curb the continued
exploitation of the masses of that country
by the landlord and merchant exploiters.
The continued greed of these elements
is also manifest on the South American
continent where President Kennedy’s
“Alliance for Progress” which calls for
a breakup of the domains of the absentee
landlord classes is running into fierce
resistance from reactionary elements both
in South America and their John Birch
groups of the United States.
With regard to trade unions, Mr Kane
indulges in his usual double-talk of court
ballots as the soie requisite of trade
unions being regained from communist
party control.
Charlie Fitzgibbon won the WWF
ballot because of his known industrial
record in which he expressed an equal
dislike of fascism as well as com-
munism. DLP protagonists are hardly
likely to be a potent factor in trade unions
whilst they continue to apologise for
Salazar and Franco.
Similarly, the Hospital Employees
Union was regained from the communist
party faction because the group headed
by NSW executive member Jack
Stephens had a record of union adminis-
trative achievement, not merely negative
anti-communism. It is doubly signifi-
cant that this success achieved in 1957
and repeated in 1960 has never been
conceded by either Mr Kane or “News
Weekly.”
One recalls, to Mr Kane's discomfort,
the gross maladministration of a former-
secretary whilst being rabidly anti-
Trades Union, who was also a DLP
executive member, which only for the
prompt action of ALP executive members
Clarrie Egan and Jim Collins, could
have gone the way of the Victorian
W.WF, and become subject to CP
machinations. In each instance the
secretary whilst being rabidly anti-
communist, was to say the least a very
incompetent trades union official.
Happenings of this nature have motiva-
ted the NSW ALP Executive in their
actions in recent years, and judging by
our election successes of December and
March, the electors, like The Bulletin,
really do believe Mr Kane cries “Wolf”
much too often.
J. MULVIHILL
Assistant General Secretary,
NSW ALP
Trades Hall (Sydney)
NOLAN THE MYTHMAKER
Sir,
I would like to apologise to the
painter Mr Godfrey Miller for a state-
ment that 1 attributed to him in the
article “Nolan the Mythmaker”
(Bulletin, February 10). Actually this
statement was taken by me verbatim
from an article on Nolan which appeared
over a year ago in another periodical. At
this time Mr Godfrey Miller did not
protest (he probably never saw the
article). And so —as one cannot live
completely in the pocket of the person
one is writing about —I took it as genuine.
Sorry, Godfrey.
BERNARD HESLING
Castle crag (NSW)
TANNER ON FEIFFER
Sir.
In his review of “The Explainers” by
Jules Feiffer (Bulletin, March 10) Les
Tanner writes of the inadequacies of
“our satirical artists” and asks paren-
thetically, what satirical artists? He
implies that either they do not exist cr, if
they do, they are not much good. Now
Tanner as cartoon-editor knows that
satirical artists (i.e., cartoonists) do exist
so he must be taking a side-swipe at the
quality of their satire.
Satire! What a delightful subject to
talk about! Just think of the scope- the
various kinds of satire, the possible
targets, its past, present and future in
Australia. And then just think how futile
such a discussion would be.
For the fact is, there is not an editor
within the country who really gives a
damn about “our satirical artists.” There
is just no market for their work. What
are they supposed to do: circulate their
drawings among their friends? Hire an
advertising-plane and smoke out a satire
in the sky?
If an editor really cared, he would,
of course, seek out what he wanted,
encourage, criticise, cajole, exhort—and
even pay—anyone who held out some
promise of being a satirical artist. (How
unrealistic can you be?)
As it is most editors are happy to go
on importing syndicated cartoons. This
way they can buy their gags on the cheap
and need never meet a satirical artist
face to face.
Until.. recently The Bulletin was the
only magazine that regularly featured
local work. But the three or four draw-
ings a week it is now printing hardly.
constitute a market. (1 counted 32 draw-
ings in a recent 44-page issue of
“Punch.”) *
Tanner finishes his review by quoting
Feiffer, who says of himself: “If 1 have
nothing to say, 1 shut up.” Tanner com-
ments: “Too many of us have open
mouths.”
The real trouble is that too many
editors have closed minds.
DAVID SWAIN
Lane Cove (NSW)
AMERICAN FASCISM?
Sir,
I have just arrived in Australia and am
delighted to have found the Bulletin.
The story by Hal Porter (Bulletin,
March 10) was one of the best I have read
in years, but I was somewhat disappoin-
ted in the article “American Fascism?”
by John P. Roche (Bulletin, March 17).
Having lived in the United States for
the past ten years I can testify to the
resurgence of the radical Right. Never
before have the Right-wing groups had
a greater following in the US as is
evidenced by the trend toward conserva-
tism in American colleges where
liberalism used to flourish.
1 do not fear the Birchers. who are but
a small fraction of the Right—but I do
fear what made the society gain influence
and power, namely: the atmosphere of
fear. That —contrary to Mr Roche's
statement —was the inheritance that
McCarthy left. The fear is buried now
in the subconscious mind of America, it
is suppressed and denied. But Americans
are very much afraid—afraid of Russia,
afraid of each other and apprehensive
about the future. And a people afraid is
an easy prey for a powerful militant
Right.
it may be relevant to quote from the
article “Unpersons, USA" (Bulletin,
March 17) by Murray Kempton:
“Americans do not bow down to J.
Edgar Hoover through fear ; what is sad
is that most of them approve what he
is doing." —But the approval, it should
be noted, was born in fear. Similarly—
for the very same reasons, the American
people approve of the radical Right. To
disapprove —to dissent and rebel —is too
much trouble, too great a risk or even
sacrifice and might entail social ostracisa-
tion, loss of promotion and a host of
other unexpected inconveniences. It is
much simpler to acquiesce, as did the
German people, not realising at first that
if one man's rights can be infringed upon
with impunity, all men's rights will
ultimately be sacrificed.
(Mrs) RALPH V. SUMMY JR.
Drunimoyne (NSW)


A PLAIN MAN'S GUIDE
TO THE SENATE
The Senate was to be Primarily a State House
By M. H. ELLIS
/'Ane of Federal Labor’s great illusions,
born of the excitement of its near-
win at the Federal elections, was that a
Government cannot live long anchored
on the edge of the political precipice, if
its existence depends on clinging to a
single vote. That illusion is already on
its deathbed. Threatened Governments,
like threatened men, live long; and the
best the optimists of the Labor front
bench can hope for is that the advent
of the new Senate in July will radically
change the situation and make it im-
possible for the Government to carry
on.
It has some justification for that hope.
History has repeated itself frequently in
relation to the Senate which has been
the bugbear of many Governments and
which looks like continuing to be a brake
on responsible government. It is a
feature of the Commonwealth Constitu-
tion (which has failed to live up to the
expectations of its devisers) largely be-
cause there have been so many develop-
ments in the past 60 years which were
quite unpredictable by the starry-eyed
planners of Federation at the Conven-
tions of 1891 and 1897.
Though there are doubts about the
legal interpretation of the conception, the
Commonwealth Constitution was gen-
erally conceived among the representa-
tives who framed it as a compact
between the colonies entered into
provide an agency to deal with problems
common to all of them, a co-operative
and co-ordinating authority to act for
them in defence, the application ff cus-
toms and excise laws, and in preventing
confusion of laws. The basic model for
Federation was the Constitution of the
United States; but the model was re-
designed on the assumption that Australia
would remain part of an empire; that
it was unlikely that it would become in-
dependent with treaty-making powers;
also, that :t would be an agency rather
than an originating force, and that its
expenditures would be becomingly limited
and the real exercise of sovereignty would
remain with or under the guidance of
the States.
Nobody foresaw that a great war
would make finance basically a national
matter, that problems of defence woulr
overshadow all others, that the develop-
ment of air transport would knit the
wide-flung States into adjacent suburbs,
that the trends of growth and democ-
racy and the creation of national political
parties, national industries and national
independence would change the whole
character of the Federation.
Nobody anticipated the effects of in-
dustrialisation on the economy, or the
impact on public conceptions of the
Commonwealth of great influxes of
people to whom the reality was Australia
and not any particular State; or even the
effect produced by returning fighting
forces which had been welded into
national unity in the field.
Tt was on the basis of the retention
A of State rights that the Senate was
justified for inclusion in the legislature in
its present form as a second chamber. It
was to be primarily a “States house” the
watchdog of Federalism, a check on un-
due assumption of power at the national
centre of Government, and only secon-
darily a non-party house of review.
Its proposed relationship to the lower
house was summed up by Barton. The
House of Representatives, he thought,
would represent “the principle of nation-
hood, and the power and scope of the
nation, as constitutes and welded to-
gether into one by the act of federation.”
The Senate, on the other hand, would be
a house in which, “whether it is called the
Council of the States, the States Assem-
bly, or the Senate, must be found not
the ordinary checks of an upper house,
because such a chamber will not be con-
stituted for the purposes of an upper
house.” It must be designed to “con-
serve the basic principle of Federation,”
to be “representative of the rights of the
States;” to “see that each law of the
Federation should have the assent of the
States as well as of the Federated people.”
But, at the same time, he thought,
it should have “powers in most matters
co-ordinate with the other House.”
The Senate from the beginning has
failed to realise any of the main pur-
poses for which it was designed. If its
members have ever shown any tendency
to act as a house of the States they have
ept that fact a dark secret. Its relation
hip to the States is vestigial only.
It is elected on State writs issued by
Governors. Its casual vacancies are filled
by State Parliaments, or if they are in
recess when the time of election comes,
by Governors-in-Council. Ministers look
on it as a backwater, the last resort of
ambition.
And though, at first, a few men who
might have been entitled to call them-
selves elder statesmen lent it eclat the
quality of its membership in general
has tended to degenerate and the end
of World War I saw it turned into a
repository for generals who seemed likely
to attract the soldier vote to the
Nationalists and for union secretaries
who had been put out to grass.
Some of the new inmates in the twen-
ties were certainly no more fitted for
membership than the brave old warrior
who accepted nomination only after that
master-picker of candidates, Archdale
Parkhill, had satisfactorily answered in
this order, his two crucial questions :
(1) “What’s the ruddy salary?” (2)
“What’s the ruddy Senate?”
The Senate was to become more than
ever a nuisance to the lower house with
the introduction of grouping of name* of
candidates in party block on the ballot
paper in 1919, as if it were not already
trouble enough.
The disadvantage of having a second
chamber with members elected for fixed
terms was already much too apparent,
since, in order to synchronise the elec-
tions of the two chambers, it was some-
times necessary to curtail the term of
office of the lower house.
The difficulties of making a fresh start
after a double dissolution, with a house
in which some members sat for three and
some for six years, was also evident. And
a hostile Senate was a legacy which
seemed to become de rigeur to adminis-
trations which had succeeded to office
through destroying Governments which
had not run their full term of election.
"Preferential voting and the block sys-
A tern certainly did not improve matters,
more especially when Labor discovered
the advantage to be had through jockey-
ing for first place on a Senate ballot
paper by nominating only candidates
whose first initial was “A”. This original
measure was adopted to meet both the
eccentricities of the curious method of
arranging the ballot slip and the mental
limitations of electors who were apt in
large numbers to vote “straight across the
card.”
However, the Nationalists, Country
Party, UAP or Liberals had little cause to
complain of the effects of the new sys-
tem, even though the result of Senate
elections bore little relationship to the
numbers of votes cast for each party as a
whole or to the numbers elected for


either party in the House of Represen-
tatives.
In 1925, the National-Country Party
coalition won all the 22 seats contested.
In 1928, it had victories in 12 out of 19
seats, so that when it was forced to the
polls in 1929 and roundly defeated, it was
able to leave the Scullin Government
paralysed for the whole of its term by a
hostile Senate majority. The UAP undeT
Mr Lyons came back to power in De-
cember 1931 with 15 Senate seats out of
18. Labor won no Senate seats at all
in 1934, though it turned the tables in
1937 winning 16 seats to Liberals three.
The 1940 poll provided an even more
striking example of the vagaries of
Senate elections. That year the Menzies
Government came back by the skin of
its teeth having tied with Labor in the
number of seats won in the lower house.
It thus become dependent for survival
on the votes of two independents. But the
Government won the Senate election
hands down, 16 votes to three, so that
when Labor took office at the end of
1941, it was compelled to carry on till
August, 1943 with a Liberal-CP con-
trolled Senate standing over it. It won
19 seats in 1943 all there were to win
and all but three seats in 1946.
r Jpnus in 1949, when numbers were in-
creased and proportional represen-
tation introduced, it was able to be-
queath a hostile Senate to the victorious
Menzies administration.
A Royal Commission in 1929 had
recommended proportional representation
in Senate voting as a sure means of relat-
ing the result to the numbers of votes
cast for each party to voting strength.
Unluckily, it does this all too effec-
tively, seeing how close are the percen-
tages of Liberal and Labor on the rolls
and the blighting effect on the overall
informal voting of the inability of elec-
tors to cope with complicated ballot
papers containing anything up to 25
names divided into anything up to six
separate groups.
The task of placing a number in every
square before these names proves at
every election beyond the capacity of
nearly 11 per cent of all voters.
The system operated first in 1949.
The Committee of Constitutional Re-
view which reported in 1959 to the
Federal Parliament pointed out that ex-
perience since its inception had “shown
that the likelihood of a deadlock be-
tween the two parties arising is much
greater than in the past and could be-
come a recurrent feature of future Parlia-
ments,” more especially since the
President has no casting vote in the
Senate and when votes are equal the
question is resolved in the negative.
In plain fact, the Senate has been
always on the edge of deadlock during
the whole term of the Menzies Govern-
ment, which has never been returned
with a majority of less than seven in the
lower house, but has never had a
majority in the Senate on any occasion
of more than four.
In its first Parliament, it had a majority
of 27 in the Representatives, but Labor
had a majority of eight in the Senate;
and but for slight divergences from
normal in Queensland and Western Aus-
tralia which produced six to four votes,
the result of the Senate poll for 60 seats
in the double dissolution election of 1951
would have broken even. As it was, the
Government came back with its record
majority, of four.
In the 1955 election the Government
won 17 out of 30 seats. The constitu-
tional committee’s “survey of the relative
party strengths of the two houses during
the current decade” leaves it “in no doubt
that under the system of proportional
representation in Senate elections there is
usually a very real prospect of a party
or coalition of parties successful at the
most recent general election having
to take up the reins of Government
without a majority in the Senate.”
|3ut it can suggest no antidote “to main-
tain the principle of responsible
government and to ensure the prece-
dence of national interests over other
interests” save a modification of Section
57 of the Constitution which deals with
deadlocks between the two houses and
the remedies for them which certainly
do not touch the system of voting to
elect the Senate —a matter which is with-
in the power of Parliament to determine
without amending the constitution.
It was accepted by the Constitutional
Review Committee that in an election for
five Senators the proportion of formal
votes a party's candidates would usually,
though not always, need to obtain to
secure representation would be approxi-
mately as follows:
Of votes
per cent.
For one seat 16.67
For two seats 33.34
For three seats 50.01
For four seats 66.67
For five seats 83.34
The effect of the informal voting can
be gauged from the fact that in 1958 a
Senate candidate needed 245,000 votes
to secure election. Within the State,
244,000 informal votes, nearly equal to a
whole quota, were cast.
In Victoria, the total of informalities
was 142,400. For the whole Common-
wealth the figure was 538,000 (out of a
total of 5,141,000) and the number was
increased at the poll last December, for
NSW and Victoria being respectively
approximately 260,000 and 162,400. In-
formal votes in the whole Commonwealth
were 559,000.
It is obvious that the present ballot
system effectively disfranchises—regu-
larly—almost 11 per cent of all voters
for the Senate.
As for the Senate itself, its whole
position seems to need consideration and
reform, since it has ceased to have any
relationship to its original main purpose.
Even the Constitutional Review Com-
mittee (representative of all parties) con-
sidered (as quoted above) that it is no
longer necessary to consider State
interests in relation to it —that the con-
sideration in respect of it should be to
“ensure the national interests.”
In fact, the very purpose for which the
Senate was constituted seems to have dis-
appeared. The States are sinking in
status every day as they have done in
America, and Federal politics have
become the paramount interest in
Government.


jumps into first place for contemporary home construction
wmmm&
W.
WM
v
'
m
■
Lysaght
CORRUGATED
If you prefer the clean modern look of
today’s low-pitched rooflines, then get
the facts about Lysaght Corrugated
Steel Sheet. It’s the roofing material
with the advantages you want.
Strength the toughness of Red Orb
quality steel sheet, made specially
rigid for roofing purposes. Good looks
blends happily with every type of
modern roofline. Economy first cost
is moderate, while maintenance costs
are next to nothing for many years.
* m
mm
fe.-.
sy£ys-
-
1
~ .--
as**
K j r.
MS
3*5
£*
m
m
m
w.
*.
i
mmm
Lysaght
KLIP-LOK*
Sixteen
One of today’s most talked-about
building materials, Klip-Lok Sixteen
offers an attractive ribbed appearance
that enhances most modern homes.
Suitable for any pitch of roof down
to I°. Continuous side-locking action
—no sealers needed. Because it is fixed
to roof members with concealed straps,
puncturing of the deck surface is elim-
inated. The long lengths overcome end
laps . . . speeds installation and helps
keep costs down.
* Aust. Pat. No. 222046 (other Aust. & Overseas
Pat. Nos. granted and pending)
Full working drawings and specifications are available
for either of the two homes shown above as well as for
the other homes included in the new Lysaght Home
Plans Portfolio, which you may obtain by posting
coupon at right. These drawings and specifications are
supplied through the “Australian Women’s Weekly”
Home Plans Service for as little as £lO/10/-, which
includes help by qualified architects in altering the
selected plan to fit in with your wishes and to suit your
site.
For full information, ’phone or call at your local
“Australian Women’s Weekly” Home Plans Service.
JOHN LYSAGHT
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
Offices at Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide and Fremantle,
m
m
&
,-y-v
SEND FOR FREE HOME PLANS B -
John Lysaght (Australia) Limited,
50 Young Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me, free and post free, your new 1962
Lysaght Home Plans Portfolio, comprising a series
of architect-planned homes styled in the modern
manner and designed to be built at moderate cost.
NAME
STATE.
ADDRESS
L2CC


The one that got away
A SHORT STORY
By Thelma Forshaw
It was Mother’s Day and all of us were
going to the cemetery —that is, my
mother, Auntie Dee and myself.
When you have belonged to a big
clan, you get used to saying “all of us.”
But even if you were the sole living
Halloran, you would continue to say “all
of us”; for to a Halloran the line
separating the living from the dead is not
the electrified fence of most people’s con-
ception, but as mythical as the equator.
My mother and Auntie Dee had
hangovers from yesterday’s—once I
would carelessly have said “booze-up”,
but now I know what it really was.
Anyway, they were in the “flat, stale, and
unprofitable” mood that comes also to the
artist and the mystic when the vision is
gone. Not that that would keep them
home, this Mother’s Day, in our rather
dark Petersham cottage. They were too
fond of their dead.
There was a large Halloran “plot”
where lay my grandparents, who had
been Irish immigrants with a real brogue
which I could faintly remember and
which my mother revived often with
the mimic gift she shared with all
her family. With them was Uncle
Pat, who had been found face-down in the
mud, at Manly, drowned. He had been
embezzling the company funds. It
seemed a rash and unnecessary suicide,
for the chief had said at his graveside:
“Poor Pat, he was a good chap. Why
didn’t he just come to me if he was in
trouble?” But that was too simple for
a Halloran with his immortal soul which
rejected the priest, and his outlaw’s
pride that would not be beholden to The
Enemy. Then there were those two wild
Anzacs, Uncle Terry and Uncle Brian.
You could say they died of war-and-
peace wounds. And the gay, violent
Auntie Mag, who had left behind her six
young children. Pneumonia carries off
the heavy drinkers quickest, they say. It
had carried off my young father, too, who
had been her Fidus Achates, her good
pal, and loyally followed her six months
later.
But, in fact, whatever the name given
to the cause of their deaths, ail Hallorans
died from the same shock—the sudden
sight of Reality. That was THEIR
electrified fence. Of them all, only my
mother compromised, so that she had a
foot in both worlds and was, inevitably,
a hypocrite, though her hypocrisy was
tempered by fun and gentleness, or, for
all I know, may have stemmed from
them.
None of the dead Hallorans had
reached 50. But I don’t suppose they
would have wanted to grow elderly and
respectable like Uncle Clarrie. (Uncle
Clarrie, whose motto : “A short life and
a merry one,” had come true in a horribly
ironic way.) I can imagine how they
would have mocked him. living quietly in
Blacktown (Blacktown, after his wild
years in Sydney!) with his wife and four
children, and allowing himself just a
couple of discreet bets on Saturdays, and
no grog—no ritual potion—any more. We
hadn’t seen Uncle Clarrie for three years,
but my mother and Auntie Dee always
said every Mother’s Day : “I wonder if
he’ll turn up at the grave today?” Half-
wistful, half-contemptuous.
A untie Dee had loved him best of all.
She never got over his reforming.
It was a terrible blow to her. He had
always been her “offsider.” The jester, the
most merrily bacchic of his clan —who
would have believed HE might reform!
The Hallorans were a small flock of
black sheep, and Uncle Clarrie had
turned white (YELLOW, in Auntie
Dee's eyes)—that’s how they looked at
it.
Auntie Dee was a true criminal type,
who corrupted at a touch. She was the
evil genius of her clan —the witch-doc-
tor who presided over orgy and wake,
broken marriage and pyschopathic
child. She loved the young as the rake
loves a virgin. Now and again, she
arranged for me —just turned sixteen —
to meet the wealthy or influential men
whose flats she serviced. But they always
went away quietly after treating me to
a paternal lunch, daunted, I think, by
the passionate purity I wore like an
amulet. A purity not of innocence, but
formidable with witnessed knowledge. I
shall always believe that Auntie Dee
tried to launch me as a courtesan (with
an eye to “a percentage,” naturally.)
She never ceased to keen and wail
over Uncle Clarrie and his defection.
“Good God, I can remember when he
used to join the Band of Hope every
Friday night,” she would brood, “and
on Sunday mornings, he would lead the
Sallies down the street, carrying their
flag. What could have come over him to
change the way he did?”
“They were such good sports, those
Sallies,” reflected my mother, diplomatic
even out of earshot. “But remember how
he used to hide when the Band of Hope
man came to the door looking for him
next day, and Vere would have to say
he was a tyke and only joined because he
had a few in. Always a wag, Clarrie was,
a holy terror.”
They would shake their heads, laugh-
ing sadly.
1 began to feel sorry for my mother


and Auntie Dee performing their in-
sufficient rites alone. I could remember
the last of the great gatherings which
were really the celebration of one con-
tinuous Wake. A Wake no less for the
living than for the dead. Even then the
ranks had begun to thin and talk of the
dead was constant. But they had the
power of evocation when there was three
or four of them. There was always a
sense of more clamor, more laughter
and yes—more PRESENCE—than could
be expected from so few people. It was
the Four Shades. The names of the Four
Shades were invoked constantly, their
histories and escapes related so often
that no dust had time to efface them.
Louder grew the voices of the living
Hallorans, and wilder their gestures as
their dead increased in number. Some-
how they were all there still, backing each
other up, quarrelling, weeping, singing,
and just enough of them to make a
party. It was like a corroboree. I have
seen them whip themselves into a frenzy
of joy after the slow chant of invo-
cation :
“Remember the time when Mag set
fire to the magpie’s tail . . .”
“Remember when Snowy and Mag
ran races up and down Bondi Beach in
the moonlight . . .”
“Remember when the police chased
Clarrie and Snow ...”
“Remember when Pat and Terry gave
the Sallies a quid to play ‘Horsie Keep
Your Tail Up’ ...” Telling the beads
of their delinquencies with passionate
cries of You’ll NEVER tame us. Never!
Never!
Then Uncle Brian’s majestic entrance.
The ecstatic hush that would fall upon
his kin, sitting with their hands curved
round their glasses (O, sap of fantasy
and oblivion from the God-given tree!),
while he flung about his shoulders a
tablecloth, set a saucer upon his head,
and turning, with a witty ecclesiastical
swing of the starched cloth that drew
shouts of delight, lifted two fingers in
blessing, his lips chanting: “Dominus
vobiscum.” And Uncle Clarrie, swaying,
his chin drawn in flat against his neck,
his lips a funnel, answering in a mock
bass : “Et cum spiritu Tuo-o-o-o-o-o! ”
Magnificently sonorous.
Then Uncle Brian points to the kitchen
chair with its back like a barred window.
Uncle Clarrie turns it, kneels, leaning
his elbows upon the seat, folding his
hands; and squatted on the opposite side,
Uncle Brian intones through the bars:
“How long is it since your last confes-
sion, my son?”
“Seventy-seven years,” replies Uncle
Clarrie blithely, and begins his “confes-
sion”—a litany foul, bawdy and ludi-
crous so that the others scream with
laughter, my mother protesting in her
hypocrite’s voice: “Orrh, you terrible
cows! ” then subsiding in rueful chuckles.
Auntie Dee, gasping with an intolerable
excitement, everywhere at once : “Look
here OWW! ” as Uncle Brian leads
her back to her chair by the ear, pinch-
ing it with his nails, and scolding in a
savage parody of brogue: “Faith, and
don’t ye remember how the good Father
O’Riley would get us by the ear —bedad
—and NI-I-I-P” — (Auntie Dee shrieks),
“May sixty-five devils swing on his scapu-
lar!” Uncle Brian says hotly and
swallows down a full glass of wine to
applause.
And my Protestant father, bewildered,
smiling, naive, wanting to be in it but
not understanding any of it. Only I, just
home from a devout Benediction, watch-
ing with a thrill the riotous bravado of
the torch-carrying Hallorans.
And the glasses never empty. The
Hallorans drinking, not to forget, but
to more gloriously remember, as the
whip-cracking years turned attack to re-
treat.
And now, since Uncle Clarrie had
been “saved”, there were only two
of them —and me.
“Come on, miss, doing yourself up,
there,” my mother said, hitching her
string-bag over her arm. It was full of
flowers wrapped in newspaper, and empty
jam-jars, a pair of garden-shears and a
little fork for digging out weeds. Her
necrolatry-kit. Auntie Dee carried her
eternal suit-case packed with a picnic
lunch, a thermos and without doubt
a couple of bottles.
I stopped fussing before the mirror
and followed them pleasurably. More
pleasurably than ever I went on a date
with a boy. Only this day I felt quick
and restive, as though my life were press-
ing within me to be given shape. I had
been a witness for so long, spellbound it
seemed, and scarcely aware of the sly
silent growth of my own body and mind.
I had started work and begun to meet
Other People, dull, nebulous beings not
like us Hallorans. Not at all like —them
us. And people who whispered re-
gretfully, now I was growing up, their
little captions : “Drunks and failures.”
“A shame, such a clever man until
“She was so refined and elegant once — .”
“That terrible sister of hers.” Worldly
descriptive judgments I had never
thought of applying to the Halloran
cult. My problem was not like Other
People’s. It was not a dread of straying
from law-and-order, but that I might
defect TO it! The seduction of The
Enemy went on. Once I found my-
self whispering : “Don’t let the Hal-
lorans get me, God.” Uncle Clarrie had
got away. Would I? Did I WANT to?
They had “got” my father. He had
been a promising young boxer when he
met them. A Queenslander come to
board in the big house of their priest-
fearing, acquisitive father, new to
the city, and charmed by these witty,
demonic Irish. I knew what had
caught him. It was their excitement,
their lust for laughter-and-tears. The
ecstatic outcry when the bitter salt of
grief cauterised the wounds of hedonism
the Hallorans inflicted on their immortal
souls. He had been swept into the cor-
roboree and danced to death, full of an
excitement that was not his own. He had
missed his own kind in the stadiums and
arenas. I knew he was not one of the
Four Shades invoked by the Hallorans—
the poor destroyed outsider. His
sensuality had been laced with a puritan-
ism that had once caused him to hurl
Auntie Dee and her much-too-young
lover down the backstairs, breaking
Auntie Dee’s false teeth. A man of
occasional mistresses, he could not abide
a “light woman”, and always left them
to come back to my mother, whose
frigidity he found fitting, if incon-
venient. No, HE was not a true Halloran.
I wondered if I was.
boarded the train for Rookwood
cemetery, and Auntie Dee, pallid
after yesterdays’ spasm of glory, gently
eased her bunions out of her witch's
shoes and rubbed them against her
calves.
“I’m nearly off m’head with m’feet,”
she complained bitterly, looking at
my mother, that indefatigable cele-
brant of the dead, who was dragging her
to Rookwood, Auntie Dee preferred her
beloved ghosts to real graves.
“Never mind,” my mother said,
soothing her, “there are plenty of benches
and summer-houses to sit down in up
there, and it’s turned out cool. Thank
heaven for that. I always get lost
looking for Snowy in that Independent
Section.” She added ruefully: “I’ll get
him a headstone when I have a few
quid to spare.” It was one of her hypoc-
risies, and my father’s grave remained
lost and sunken. She had bet his head-
stone on too many “outsiders”, and
traded it away for the ritual potion.
When at last we stood by my grand-
parents’ grave, Auntie Dee said
truculently: “There’s only room for one
more, and that’s MINE.”
She said it in the same tone she used
when my mother picked up her glass
by mistake. My mother did not argue her
right. She had stooped with her little low
cry, that always sounded shocked: “Orrh,
look at the weeds!” And in a
minute she was at work over the graves,
plucking, tidying, clipping with the shears,
emptying the vases with their rotten
brown stems and fetid water. Auntie Dee
worked in a different way, as though she
were doing someone’s house out, and Us
grime appalled her. Occasionally she


muttered: “Poor Pat,” or “Poor Mag,”
bitterly, unexultant. One felt Death tip-
toe away from her guiltily, throwing a
cowed look over his shoulder.
Then my mother knelt, her lips moving,
while Auntie Dee stood self-consciously
and seemed to pray with her, behind her
closed mouth. But I was gazing uncer-
tainly at the man who had co:::e up and
was standing there quietly, a tissue-cone
of flowers in his hand.
My mother and Auntie Dee turned. It
was Uncle Clarrie. That stranger who had
once been one of them : the traitor
who had deserted the guerrilla-band and
gone over to The Enemy. From being
gaunt and feverish with hard living, he
had grown blandly plump, the elvish
spiiit that had r imated him fossilised
now beneath the landslide of respecta-
bility that had caught it. No longer
the inspired Fool, crouch' in some
maniac dance, the froth of lewdness at
the corners of his mouth. Was it true
what Auntie Vere had confided in
a letter to them —that he couldn't keep
his eyes off young girls now? Was he
always staring at them, as she said?
He gave them a lugubrious nod apiece.
Then his face wrinKied with the old
humor, only faintly acid.
“Hullo, Dee—still on the pinkie?”
She literally sprang at him as he stood
there, plump, spruce, and solemn —an
alien shape.
“Yes! Yes! And a bloody sight better
than being a bloody hypocrite like you!”
Her false teeth were positively palsied,
leaping, jutting, clicking back again
Uncle Clarrie found it necessary to wipe
his eye.
The brawl swelled lopsidedly as
Auntie Dee named him in divers ways
and wished upon him all the evil of the
world. My devious and subtle mother
pushed me forward.
“Rem nber the skinny, miserable little
hound she used to be Clar?”
“Fine, big girl,” Uncle Clarrie said
politely. Then he repeated it. “Fine big
girl, all right.” His eyes in their fleshy
sockets struggled to retain avuncular
approval, but shot a glint of wistful
hunger. “Fine big girl,” he ended
absently, red-faced, bewildered, and my
mother hardly knew why she drew me
back.
Auntie Dee had begun to weep,
snatching off her glasses to glare blindly
at Uncle Clarrie, pointing : “Ah, look at
him, will you! Ju:t LOOK at him!” It
was the wail with which a mother be-
holds her son brought home to her with
his arms held by two policemen.
“It’s his life,” my mother said
awkwardly, only half-lying, then bending
to gather her paraphernalia, wanting to
forestall a further scene, or dreading its
sterility—“ We’d better start off trying to
find Snowy. I always get lost in that
Independent Section.”
TTncle Clarrie spoke, soft and conven-
tional. “Poor Snow. How many
years, Bid?” You could see he had for-
gotten everything. Forgotten the
gleeful flights from pursuing coppers, the
brawls he had started for my father to
finish, his own puckish obscenity, the
Black Mass.
“He was a mongrel!” Auntie Dee said
savagely. She knew Clarrie had loved
the big, blond lair.
“He was too young to go, say what you
like,” my mother protested, stung enough
to be drawn in.
“Good enough for him,” spat Auntie
Dee, staring at Uncle Clarrie, “and any
other mongrel.” Poin.ing the bone.
Uncle Clarrie turned away. His
flowers lay, still wrapped, on the grave.
His arms hung by his side, but he moved
two fingers at us. “Abyssinia,” he said
but sadly.
“Mother’s Day, huh!” called Auntie
Dee. “A lot you bloody well care about
any of us. Cleared out, did you? But
it’ll do you no good. No good. You'll
crawl back to us in the end. You'll
crawl BACK—d’you hear!”
“Dee,” my mother begged, looking
nervously about, “Dee, Dee. Let him
g°”
Auntie Dee wept. She took his flowers
and threw them with all her force after
him. ‘Nobody wants his flowers. Nobody
wants them.”
My mother ran and gathered them up
again and put them in one of her jam-
jars. Auntie Dee pulled at her arm.
“Come on. I can’t stand this bloody
place no longer. Let’s sit down some-
where away from here.”
“No life in him —no life at all,” she
said to herself. The Hallorans lying in
the graveyard and the Four Shades who
drank with her were different. lust as
the reality of Uncle Clarrie had shocked
her after the image of him she carried
in her mind. A sober, unsmiling man
who had once sung and cavorted as ne
led the Sallies on Sunday mornings. A
man who had betrayed the past. She
had repulsed him violently as an animal
revolts against the cub tainted by alien
hands. Yet I know now that Uncle Clarrie
had come back and found only the
eroded wasteland wh e his sisters dwelt,
picking over old bones they could not
flesh alone. Did my secretive mother
know it, too?
TX/'E found a shady tree and sat on the
grass near the outer rim of the
cemetery, facing the great arc of gold
the sun had sloughed off as it set. The
black stripes of trees seemed to make
the sky a vast barred window.
Auntie Dee sought to exorcise the
ghost that had appeared to her in The
Enemy’s shape. She opened her little
suitcase and brought out a bottle of
wine.
“Come on, Bid, let’s have a drink
before we go.”
Her voice pulsed with a feeble
excitement as she struggled with the
cork: “Ah, God, will you ever forget
the day Snowy put Mag under the
shower with all her clothes on —” The
ritual chant had begun. The corroboree
faltered its opening beat. “Mag was the
only one in the world who could slap
Snowy’s face and live.” Even adoptive
Halloranism was preferable to the traitor.
She turned to me, drawing me in. The
ranks were pitifully thin in the grey
clarity of the cemetery. She put out her
hand to the novice. Like Circe, in ner
hand the transmogrific cup.
“Come on, love, have a drink with us.
You’re a long time dead.”
1 looked at the cupful of wine and
gingerly sipped it. This was what released
the Halloran magic from its mundane
bonds, released the druidic dance and
religious longing, the joyous summoning
of the dead.
“I don't want YOU to start that,” my
mother said in a low shocked voice. I
stared past her moral puppetry, the
feeble lip-service she paid to law-and-
order.
“Let her alone,” hissed Auntie Dee.
“For God’s sake she's old enough.”
This was the initation.
Then from the tree there thrust a
delicate new branch, as I felt born in me
a quick revolt, a refusal to be drawn
down into the Halloran underworld;
but, more than that, a sure divining-rod
tremor towards other magics.
I put the cup down. “I think—l might
like —looking at things—the way they
are.” The mint-new heresy came falter-
ing, but once said, was as palpable as the
stake thrust through the heart of a witch.
1 smiled timidly, to soften it.
Auntie Dee stared at me, aghast,
gorgeously scornful. She levelled at me
the whole ethos of a clan.
“You damned little wowser,” she
cursed, “YOU’LL never be one of us.”
But by then she was folklore.
I turned away and looked beyond the
graves of the dead, at the sky, where I
saw a pause enacted. The sun had set.
There was no moon. The sky stood
cool and empty. Then one star came out.
It looked frail, yet it had been there
always.
1 heard my mother say: “We’d better
be going. It’ll be dark soon.” Her voice
sounded tranquil, as though she were
deeply pleased. But you can’t always
tell with my mother. She’s such a
hypocrite.


Science at Work
MILLS CROSS v. PARKES DISH
By our Science Correspondent
''The announcement last weekend that
the American Government’s National
Science Foundation would finance the
Mills Cross radio-telescope project of the
Sydney University School of Physics to
the extent of nearly three-quarters of a
million dollars over the next five years,
means two things.
It emphasises again that since the end
of World War II Australia has emerged
as perhaps the world’s leading nation in
the new science of radio-astronomy.
And it underlines the fact that radio-
astronomy efforts in Australia are now
split into two distinct groups: the Federal
Government’s own CSIRO group with
its giant dish radio-telescope at Parkes,
and Sydney University’s Radio-As-
tronomy Centre group which receives no
financial support from the Australian
Government but whose Mills Cross pro-
ject at Canberra is being funded almost
entirely by the American Government.
The split between the University groups
on the one hand, and the CSIRO group
on the other, is so marked that there have
indeed been efforts to influence the US
National Science Foundation against
financing the Mills Cross project and
rather devote funds to the CSIRO group.
Scientifically this split is most unfortunate
as there are many aspects in which the
two sides should complement each other,
and it is to be hoped that eventually a
measure of co-operation and collabora-
tion will develop between them.
However, this split may also be seen
as further evidence of the vitality of
Australian radio-astronomy. Indeed the
science of radio-astronomy was virtually
unknown until Australians started to
develop it after the war in conjunction
with groups at Manchester and Cam-
bridge universities. The sudden postwar
effort in this field was a direct result of
wartime radar jams during periods of
disturbances. The RAF ordered an im-
mediate investigation to discover whether
the Germans had found an effective
counter to Britain’s most powerful de-
fence aid. The investigating scientists
reported that it was not the Germans
who were interfering with Britain’s radar
warning system but the sun. They said
that particularly heavy sun spot activity
at the time, and associated solar flares,
were causing emission of a continuous
jumble of radio signals from the sun.
Their report was confirmed when radar
sets returned to normal as solar flare
activity decreased. And Radio-Astronomy
was born.
Immediately after the war scientists
began looking at the universe at radio
wavelength with large radio receivers
called radio-telescopes. Their success
is well known, and today we can find
out almost as much about the universe
by “listening” to it as by looking at it. But
what is it that we are actually “listening”
to? What is the cause of this radio noise
that stars emit?
of the main reasons is the same'
reason a star emits light : because
it is hot. An ordinary light bulb gives
light when a thin tungsten filament is
heated to white heat by an electric
current. The electricity is used purely
to produce the high temperature required,
and the white-hot filament then pro-
duces the light. Similarly, a star is a
tremendously hot object whose heat is
produced by the natural nuclear reac-
tions continuously proceeding within it.
These reactions, like the electricity
feeding the light bulb, merely produce
the necessary heat.
A very hot object emits light because
the heat makes its atoms move faster and
collide with one another more frequently
and more severely than in the object’s
normal, cool state. And when the struc-
ture of atoms is interfered with by such
augmented collisions, the atoms emit
what is called electro-magnetic radiation.
Certain wavelengths of this radiation we
see as light; other, longer wavelengths,
known as infrared rays, are invisible but
we can feel them as heat rays ; shorter
wavelengths than visible ones are what
we know as ultraviolet rays and longer
ones than the infrared are what we know
as radio waves.
The complicated mass of hot gasses
that forms a star produces radiation of
a tremendous variety of frequencies,
from ultraviolet to radio waves. And
thus we can often not only see a star
but also “hear” it. However, the broiling
masses of stars do not lend themselves
to the emission of clear radiowaves of
one pure frequency of wavelength, but
emit a whole host of frequencies
radio noise.
This radio noise is caused not only
by this temperature effect in and around
a star, but also by the star’s magnetic
field. The radio noise caused by the
magnetic field is particularly increased
at times of flare activity on the surface
of the star, explaining Britain’s spec-
tacular radar “blackout” in 1942.
The conventional radio-telescope de-
veloped after the war, and used almost
exclusively ever since, was patterned
after the reflecting mirrors used in optical
telescopes. It “collects” radio signals
from space and focuses them by re-
flection on to a central aerial.
Because radio waves are much longer
in wavelength than lightwaves and much
weaker coming from distant regions
in space a much larger area is needed
to collect them than even the world’s
largest optical telescope mirror at Mt.
Palomar which is 200 inches in diameter.
This is why radio astronomers have been
building larger and larger antennae
dishes for their telescopes the world’s
largest, with a diameter of 250 ft, is at
Jodrell Bank in England, and the recently
opened CSIRO radio-telescope at Parkes,
NSW, has a dish of 210 ft diameter.
Naturally, instruments of such size are
extremely expensive. The Parkes tele-
scope cost some £BOO,OOO, the major part
of which was contributed by the Federal
Government, with American non-govern-
mental sources funding the rest.
For this reason, the invention by
Australian Dr B. Y. Mills of the “Mills
Cross” a cross-shape radio-telescope
has attracted world-wide attention.
Dr Mills, formerly a CSIRO scientist,
now works in the Basser Astronomy
Department of Sydney University’s
School of Physics. He had the revolu-
tionary idea that a radio-telescope need
not have a shape similar to the features
of an optical one. The telescope he in-
vented, and which has been named after
him, has its aerials in two narrow but long
arms crossing at right angles on level
ground. And the antennae arms of the
instrument he is now building at Can-
berra will each be a mile long and 40ft
wide.
Each arm collects radio signals and
focuses them on a central aerial along
the entire arm. In this way the Mills
Cross can pinpoint the location of distant
radio sources as accurately as a dish-type
radio-telescope of a diameter almost
equal to the length of one of the arms.
It thus achieves one of the main objects
of radio astronomy at a fraction of the
cost of a corresponding dish, such as
the Parkes telescope.


a
.
MAIN CONTRACTORS
$1 MON-CARVES
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LIMITED
*5
■-
m
8«•<
m
m
K 3
ItiMMi
m
H*
»w 3
mmm
»>
.•Si
m
mm
►H
is*
r»si*?w''^K
>v
3»SS
;^s6^
ivs
K&SM
isa
F(V.'<i.'!«scS*i-'.«!;3 $
sfis
rs?;*:
N>:
ifWP®
K«
taa
vvy-
£l
»B 3?
£u£2
n
&e
EXPANDING CONTRACTING
Simon-Carves, in their specialised fields of
sulphuric acid plants, coke ovens and by-
product plants, electro-precipitation plants,
sintering plants, and power station construc-
tion, to name but a few, have amassed con-
siderable experience and specialist staff to
carryout largescalecontractingforall industries.
If you have the process know-how
Simon-Carves have the contracting experience
to enable you to appoint them as main contract-
ors in your expansion programme.
Given a site and a customer’s briefing,
Simon-Carves will accept responsibility for the
design, purchasing, erection, and, if necessary,
the commissioning, of any plant.
sfkoN-GUfIrES
fu/.Junited
J. R. PILLARS
Pty. Ltd.
MEMBER COMPANIES
*E)
SIMON ENGINEERING LTD
25-31 Wilson Street, BOTANY, N.S.W.
Phone 666-9641
OFFICES ALSO AT:—
MELBOURNE 61-2778
BRISBANE 2-2457
ADELAIDE 4-1528
PERTH 21-5661
C 62


The Wild
Cat Pages and
THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
FINANCE BUSINESS ECONOMIC COMMENT INVESTMENT OIL AND MINING
INDEX
Croesus .. .. ~ .. 35
Japan’s Great Plan .. r . 36
Milan Trade Fair .. 37
Business Archives .. .. 37
Personal Profile Korman .. 38
Building .. .. .. ~ 40
Coal .. .. ..41
Statistics .. .. .. 40, 54
Notes on the News—
Australia .. .. .. 42
Overseas .. .. .. 42
Economics Anonymous „. 42
Shipping 42
Pineapples .. .. .. 43
Advertising .. .. .. 43
Company Reviews and Notes —
Thiess Holdings Ltd .. .. 44
The T. and G. Mutual Life .. 45
The Herald and Weekly Times
Ltd 46
Neon Electric Signs Ltd .. 48
R. Fowler Ltd .. .. 49
David Jones Ltd .. .. 50
Rio Tinto Mining Co. .. 5©
One to Buy .. .. .. 51
Speculator’s Diary .. .. 52
Man on the Land: Wool Inquiry 53
I.M.F. LOAN REPAID
SQUARE WITH THE WORLD AGAIN
A lthough we seem to have been
making a good thing out of the
£7Bm. drawing from the International
Monetary Fund, it is a very healthy omen
that the Government has elected to return
it with thanks. It gives a feeling of being
all square with the world again.
Even more important perhaps, the
repayment is just the sort of assurance the
business world has been looking for that
the Government will at least not be
inhibited in its recovery measures by any
impending threat from balance-of-pay-
ments quarters. After all, entrepreneurs
have fairly long memories on matters
affecting their profits and hardly any-
body can have forgotten that it was a
prospective balance-of-payments crisis
rather than any distaste for the boom, or
“overfull” employment going with it,
that drove the Government to take the
stringent deflationary measures of
November, 1960.
Not only is the present £3O million (net
of the I.M.F. drawing) considered ample
to cope with any unfavorable movements
in the three major items in the balance-
of-payments equation, imports, exports
and capital inflow, for the rest of 1962,
but also we can take it that the sizeable
total of deferred payments for imports
accumulated during 1960 has virtually all
been liquidated.
It may now occur to more and more
people, and even to some of the Govern-
ment’s hottest critics, that the Govern-
ment has got us, if perhaps not itself as
yet, out of a hideous mess with consider-
able skill. For instead of rip-roaring
inflation it has given the economy a taste
of much needed consolidation and price
stability and so a firm foundation for
vigorous development.
Nor need it be feared that the Govern-
ment’s recovery measures, now in full
swing, will necessarily jeopardise either
the healthy reserves position or the
internal price stability which has resulted
from the strengthening of that position
by the old-fashioned method of putting
restraints on spending power. It will b: a
long time yet before new inflationary
pressures build up to that extent.
'T'hough the authorities will doubtless be
watching very closely the rate at
which the present considerable slack in the
economy is taken up, their present prob-
lem is to break down caution in spending
and investment.
The authorities should comfort them-
selves with the thought that the swifter
they can get internal activity moving the
more likely will they see a revival of
capital inflow. This is the line to take
rather than placing undue emphasis on
the possibility that internal reflation will
push imports up and so put unwanted
strains on overseas reserves. In any
case, present stocks of imported goods
provide a formidable cushion against
the latter at least for another nine months
or so. The danger of imports eating up
reserves has also been narrowed.
For the impression persists that while
the new Tariff Board model has repu-
tedly been designed to ensure that
individual local industries are safeguarded
against competition from excessive and
cheaper overseas supplies, its devices can
just as convincingly be used for balance-
of-payments corrections. What, then, of
the other two items, exports and capital
inflow?
Perhaps the most reassuring aspect of
the exports picture is the sturdy appear-
ance of wool prices over the last two
months or more. Couple with this the
excellent disposal of wheat, and at least
no expected slide in prices for other major
exports, and the outlook is reassuring.
Capital inflow is, as it must be, rather
an uncertain quantity but the authorities
would hardly have returned the I.M.F.
money if they were expecting it to weaken.
In fact, from all indications, it has picked
up from the lower levels reached in the
second half of last year.
CROESUS


Dtl
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT Co. Ltd.
Financier . . Established 1882
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
Interest payable quarterly through the Bank of N.S.W Free of Exchange.
THIS ISSUE HAS BEEN FULLY SUBSCRIBED . . .
OVER SUBSCRIPTIONS NOW BEING ACCEPTED
Application Forms (and Prospectuses)
will be Forwarded on Request
Applications will be accepted only on one of the forms
of application attached to the printed copy of the Pros-
pectus which may be obtained from:
@ All branches of the Bank of New South Wales in New
South Wales, Australian Capital Territory, Victoria,
Queensland.
@ Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange, or
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
Head Office: 74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 4521-2-3.
AND BRANCHES
Underwriting Brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
20-22 O’Connell Street, Sydney
84 William Street, Melbourne. 340 Queen. Street, Brisbane
BROKERS IN VICTORIA
Clarke & Co., 450 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
BROKERS IN QUEENSLAND
Charles Elliott & Son, 356 Queen St., Brisbane
(Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
BROKERS IN CANBERRA
T. J. Thompson & Sons, C.B.C. Chambers,
Petrie St., Canberra.
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
JAPAN'S GREAT PLAN
Tapan’s economic development in the
J last hundred years has been rapid and
impressive. From a backward, feudal
society, with a poorly developed industry
and hardly any international trade, Japan
has become a great industrial nation.
Instead of relying on cheap consumer
goods Japan is switching to exporting
capital equipment, using its lower
cost structure to overcome tariff discrim-
ination. But even now Japan faces a num-
ber of economic problems. Its overall
economic growth rate has been spectacu-
lar, but the component sectors of its
economy have grown unevenly. Capital
shortages and balance-of-payments diffi-
culties have developed. Japan’s agricul-
ture is still inefficient and under-
capitalised, and absorbs far too great
a proportion of its labor force. Its
large modern factories are efficient and
staffed by a well-trained and adequately
paid labor force, but a vast proportion
of its industrial workers is still em-
ployed in small marginal workshops—
high cost, inefficient and paying poor
wages. There are glaring inequalities in
the distribution of national income.
The economy is constantly developing
tendencies towards an inflationary con-
sumer-goods boom, and must be kept
in check by stringent monetary and fiscal
policies.
In December, 1960, Japanese Cabinet
adopted its ten-year Economic Develop-
ment Plan, aimed at doubling the gross
national product by 1970. The plan aims
at bringing about radical economic and
sociological changes and accepts a large
overall rise in labor costs due to higher
wages, but hopes to compensate for that
by an adequate increase in national pro-
ductivity, elimination or reduction of the
marginal producers and diversification
and extension of exports. It also hopes
to wipe out the extra-monetary section
of the Japanese economy.
'T'he basic target of Japan’s great ten-
year plan is to double gross national
income to USs72,ooom. within ten years
or less. To sustain an economy of
this scale, Japan’s trade volume must
reach approximately USs93oom. in ex-
ports and US$99OO in imports. This
means that gross national product in the
target year (1970) must be 2.7 higher
than in the standard year 1956-58.
Total population is expected to rise
from 91,110,000 to 102,220,000, including
79,020,000 over 15 years of age Indi-
vidual spending is expected to
grow at the rate of 7.8 p.c.
p.a. Total domestic capital should jump
from USSBIB6m. to U5523,037m. (by
8.2 p.c. p.a.). The level of industrial pro-
duction is to rise by 11.9 p.c. a year.
To achieve this it will be necessary to
raise the overall productive efficiency of
Japan’s labor force and transfer a large
proportion of agricultural worker.- to
heavy, medium and service industries.
More than 40 p.c. of Japan’s work
force is employed by the primary sector.
The secondary sector employs only 25 p.c.
There is a large number of small
producers, operating on thin profit
margins and paying poor wages. The
ten-year plan aims at wiping out this in-
efficient low-wage sector of the secondary
industry and at absorbing 2,400,000 rural
workers into secondary and tertiary
industries, which would leave Japanese
agriculture with an annual growth rate
of 2.9 p.c. (raising the annual per capita
rise in rural productivity to 5.6 p.c.).
r- pHE plan aims high, but its targets are
by no means impossible. Japan has
a large and able labor force, a high rate
of capital accumulation and good inter-
national markets. The Government has
shown itself able to exercise an adequate
degree of economic guidance.
The ten-year plan will lift Japanese
living standards. This will inevitably mean
a much higher average real wage rate and
reduce Japan’s competitive price advan-
tage on the world market. Japan is fully
prepared for this, and hopes to mitigate
the adverse effects of higher costs by
switching to capital-intensive methods of
production.
Australia should benefit from an easing
of the pressure of low-cost Japanese ex-
ports—notably textiles —on her market
as well as by an increased demand for
such basic primary products as coal, iron
ore and rare minerals. On the other
hand, Japan will expect Australia to buy
more capital equipment and higher and
medium-priced durable consumer goods.
EUGENE BAJKOWSKI


mooucr
X
s"^
* a O
•V. ‘Of*** A
mature
perfection
VINTAGE
:■
HRGOVe.
ASK ALSO FOR ST. AGNES BRANDY
ITALY
MILAN'S FORTIETH TRADE FAIR
TpHE 40th Milan International Trade
-*• Fair—“Fiera di Milano” —will offici-
ally open on April 12, lasting until
April 27.
Originally founded in 1920, the Milan
Fair rapidly drew the attention of inter-
national commerce and is now considered
to be the world’s leading exhibition of
trade and business samples. In the 40
years since 1920 —there was a break in
the war years, 1943-1945—an estimated
100 million visitors have trampled over
the Fair’s extensive grounds. Last year
the display area covered over 537,000
square yards and was taken up by 13,907
exhibitors. Of these, 3429 were foreign
firms and businessmen coming from 72
countries all over the world. Official
representatives were sent by 34 countries.
Visitors totalled 4,320,000, including
94,187 registered foreign buyers. A
welcome feature at the 1961 Fair was the
new International Trade Centre (CIS),
set up to help buyers and sellers in their
contacts and deals. This service will be
continued during the 1962 Fair.
For display purposes the Fair will be
divided into seven main groups, com-
prising 125 different sections. Each group
cf products will now be concentrated
within defined limits, allowing the visitor
to locate quickly sections that interest
him most.
Exhibits will include: Group 1 —
agricultural produce, winemaking
machinery, foods and beverages,
machinery and plant for food and cold
storage industries, livestock, poultry,
farmyard and breeding installations,
fodder and veterinary appliances.
Group 2—agricultural and industrial
chemicals, pharmaceutical products, per-
fumes, cosmetics and beauty parlor
equipment, medical requisites, machinery
and plant for chemical and pharma-
ceutical industries, various vacuum
appliances, nuclear power applications,
paints and varnishes.
Group 3—antiques, furniture and
furnishing, horticulture, floriculture,
silviculture, gardening equipment, house-
hold goods and appliances, hotel equip-
ment, weighing machines, porcelain and
glassware, gold and silverware, clocks
and watches, textiles, artificial and
synthetic woven fibres, furs, leather,
hides, footwear and associated machinery,
handicrafts, toys, publications.
Group 4 —road and building
machinery, elevators and sanitary plant.
Group s—electronics,5 —electronics, radio, television
and components, optical, photographical
and cinema equipment.
Group 6 —iron and steel products,
machine tools, plastic materials and
associated machinery, textile and hosiery
machinery, sewing machines, printing
machinery, office equipment and supplies,
packing, plant for extraction, refining
and use of mineral oils and natural
gases.
Group 7 —aircraft, motor cars, motor
cycles, bicycles, boats, nautical equipment.
Foreign business visitors will be looked
after by a reception bureau (SAVE)
located in the International Trade Centre
at the Palace of Nations. Here the
visitor’s card —issued in his country of
origin by the Milan Trade Fair’s represen-
tative or Italian diplomatic or consular
officials —will be endorsed for a number
of special benefits.
The Fair’s honorary representative in
Australia is Comm. Lambert Yonna, who
may be contacted at the Italian Chamber
of Commerce, 255 a Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
E.A.B.
FROM THE PAST
"BUSINESS ARCHIVES AND HISTORY"
'T'he part of a nation’s history generated
by businessmen, industrialists and
pastoralists, is often neglected. Their
monuments remain in the nation’s great
banks, stores, factories and estates. Their
strivings are impersonally embalmed
within company accounts, correspondence
etc., and suchlike records.
Rarely have professional historians
touched on this rich material, and for
many Australians the nation’s history is
confined to early exploration, politics and
wars.
The Business Archives Council of Aus-
tralia is now trying to change this con-
ventional approach. Formed primarily to
preserve important business documents, it
is now providing an opportunity for the
writing of business history.
The February issue of the council’s
journal “Business Archives and
History”—contains, within an academic
mould, the results of some worthwhile
quarrying.
Professor S. J. Butlin furnishes a vivid
account of compiling his history of the
A.N.Z. Bank history. The journal’s
editor, Dr Alan Birch, roves discursively
over the study of business history in
Australia. He sees the need to fix the
businessman's role in our particular
society and to give it the importance it
deserves.
A journal such as this may tend to
dodge the vigorous present by concen-
trating on a safe past. But every con-
tribution to solid Australian performance,
past and present, can only be welcomed.
Even hard-headed business types could
gain much from awareness of what the
Business Archives Council is trying to
do.
V.W.


A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A L NKVITX, A. C. DKAFEIi,
N. W. C. DRAPER
(.Members 0/ Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
(■round Floor,
The National .Mutual Life Building,
291 Queen Street. Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 312761
(1 lines)
John N, Robertson, Thompson
and Co.
Members of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS,
Temple Court, 423 Little Collins St.,
Melbourne, C.l.
Telephones: 67 6154, 67 6155
Telegrams and Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Delfin House,
16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building,
150 Queen St., Melbourne,
67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables:
“Rosdale,” Sydney, Melbourne
or Wollongong.
STOCK OPTIONS
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
Suite 1, Sixth Floor, Temple Court
422 Collins Street, Melbourne
Phone 67-8011
BRANCH OFFICES
SYDNEY: 383 George Street, 29-7865
ADELAIDE: 61 Gawler PL, 7-8407
BRISBANE: 334 Queen Street, 31-1621
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS
ALL OFFICES— “OPTIONS”
Write or Phone for Free Brochure
and Current Price Schedule.
FOR
CALL
CALL
STOCK
OPTIONS
OPTIONS
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes vour
fancy write to the Manager, who will
quote you a price for the original.
PERSONAL PROFILE
KORMAN: WRITS AND WIND-UPS
Stanley Korman has probably made as
much and also lost as much as any
Australian in the last five years. But
what really stamps him indelibly as a
public figure is his highly developed pro-
pensity for losing money for shareholders
in his company promotions.
When he came to Melbourne in 1927
from Poland via Palestine as a youth of
21, he got a job shovelling coal at the
Australian Glass factory down at Spots-
wood but earlier training in engineering
and ceramics in Poland singled him out
for more responsible positions and even-
tually he set his course in textiles. Within
a few years he’d bought four US hosiery
knitting machines on the instalment plan
and had established Centenary Mills in a
factory in Carlton in 1933. Those were
tough days in textiles and Korman
remembers selling all-wool socks to G. J.
Coles at 12s. 6d. a dozen pairs. But he
persevered, bought another mill at
Bentleigh (Vic.) in 1937 and extended to
Auckland as Korman Mills just before
the war.
Korman joined the Royal Australian
Engineers at the beginning of the war but
the Government decided he would be
more useful making socks for the troops
so pulled him out of the Army. He’d had
enough of this by the end of the war and
set his sights on real estate, selling his
textile interests to Felt and Textiles.
Seeing enormous possibilities in
development of the Gold Coast, and being
one of the first in the field, Korman
reaped a rich harvest in real estate deals
there and plunged into the hotel, tourist
and land development business. By the
time he started Chevron Queensland in
1956 the financier and hotelier had left
his textiles’ past well in the rear.
In the following years of vigorous
company promotion in the finance and
hotel fields, it was money, money all the
way until the later half of 1960. Nobody
knows just how much has been shaken
through the Stanhill sieve and lost for
ever in the last eighteen months, but
taking Stanhill Consolidated, Chevron
Sydney, Stanhill Development Finance
and Factors together it must run into
many millions.
Stanhill owns about half (40 p.c.) of
the equity of Chevron Sydney and is
guarantor for the interest on its deben-
tures and also for repayment of part of
them. Stanhill has already failed to honor
its guarantee that £85,000 interest on
Chevron debentures would be paid by
January 31.
Actually this failure to honor these
guarantees is the most puzzling of all
aspects of the Korman crisis, because
Stanhill has in fact a very big swag of
valuable assets, including £4.2 million of
subdivisional land and about £3 million
in freeholds, the freehold of Chevron
(Melbourne) for instance, which though
doubtless heavily mortgaged would yield
a surplus with which to honor the
guarantees.
Factors is alone among the Korman
companies in having a good fighting
chance of survival. For even if the £2.1
million loaned to Stanhill were lost, the
group has sufficient earnings’ power to
get on a profit-earning basis again, now
that the unprofitable Rockmans’ opera-
tions have ceased. Moreover, still with
four million shares in Woolworths under
its belt (one million have been sold) and
the channelling of funds to Stanhill now
at an end, the company’s liquidity out-
look is fairly good.
A sk Mr Korman why his dreams have
been shattered and he gives one
straight answer the Government’s
thunderbolt of November, 1960, which
wrecked his agreement with Kilton Hotels
International (US) to bring in millions of
American money to fertilise the expan-
sion of his empire. After that, the onset
of the recession caught him far too ex-
tended and enforced an ignominious
retreat on all fronts, but most of all in
the grand design in Macleay Street, the
running sore on his wasting substance.
That the group feels strongly about the
Chevron Sydney affair is indicated by
a £50,000 writ taken out against a Sydney
afternoon daily early in March. All has
been quiet since.
Always an enigmatic figure even to his
associates, often the dreamer, more often
the business tiger, never taking the pose
of tycoon, always courteous, the com-
plete gentleman, neatly groomed and
almost polished, Korman is inscrutable
in these days when his scrip is practically
worthless, his monuments shaking at their
foundations and receivers being barely
held at bay.
His life pattern suggests he’s not beaten
yet. At 58 he can still find consolation
in Toorak splendor and yet nostalgically
recall restive happiness in a Carlton slum,
speak of tough times as a factory laborer,
unemployment and the struggle to lift
himself from the ruck now to call him-
self an “industrialist” when to all the
world he’s a “financier” and the “hot-
test” one we’ve probably ever had in
Australia.


m
■I
m
m
m
m
I
m
»
m
m
m
m.
m
1
555
5 SO cot PUNCHED CAS
COMPUTER
4
558
1202
SC-COL. PUNCHED CARO
COMPUTER
AO-COL PUNCHED CARO
COMPUTER
1500
PUNCHED CAROS
PAPER TAPE AND MAGNETIC TAPE
COMPUTER
1301 'T
:n cards
NETIC TAPE
PUTER
PUNCHED CAROS
AND MAGNETIC TAPE
COMPUTER
The only company with computing power for every size of business
: -:- ; r -V
IsjMjpliMpI: i fifPWlf
1 /V u
L: A -iT
■ - ■ ..
I ♦ C T SPANS
THE WHOLE FIELD OF
COMPUTERS AND TABULATORS
-FYIT, LIMITED .'. , -i alt c6 F mi m>t...
■ifca 133 a


SELECTED ASSETS
AND LIABILITIES '
OF AUTHORISED
DEALERS
Holdings of
Common-
wealth
r Interest Rates on Loans Accepted———..
Government
Securities
/ —For Fixed
Minimum
per cent.
Periods-^
Maximum
Month
All Cheque
Paying Banks
Other
Clients
Total
(at face
value)
Minimum
per cent.
Maximum
per cent.
f —Average of weekly
Figures-— £ million N
p.a.
p.a.
p.a.
p.a.
1959 June
28.3
19.8
48.1
50.4
2.94
3.13
3.00
3.50
1960 „
27.2
52.7
79.9
82.3
2.75
3.50
3.00
3.50
1961 „
34.4
62.7
97.1
100.4
2.50
4.88
3.50
4.83
1960/61
Nov.
22.1
75.3
97.4
99.9
2.44
4.25
3.00
4.25
Dec. (a)
27.1
69.4
96.5
100.0
2.50
4.50
3.50
4.38
Jan
32.1
66.8
98.9
101.4
2.50
4.50
3.50
4.50
Feb.
30.0
63.9
98.9
101.4
2.38
4.03
2.88
4.31
Mch.
44.3
54.7
99.0
101.6
2.50
4.56
3.38
4.63
April
40.3
54.8
95.1
98.5
3.00
4.81
3.94
4.75
May
33.8
61.4
95.2
98.3
2.75
4.83
4.13
4.88
June
34.4
62.7
97.1
100.4
2.50
4.88
3.50
4.83
1961/62
July
31.9
67.6
99.5
102.5
2.25
4.88
3.38
4.88
Aug.
34.7
67.7
102.4
105.6
2.25
4.25
3.00
4.25
Sept.
33.2
69.9
103.1
106.6
2.25
3.75
2.75
3.75
Oct.
35.7
72.0
107.7
111.2
2.25
3.88
2.88
3.88
Nov.
33.0
76.3
109.8
113.5
2.25
4.31
2.75
4.34
Dec. (a)
33.8
76.6
110.4
114.1
2.25
4.00
2.75
4.00
Jan.
35.6
74.8
110.4
114.0
2.00
3.75
2.75
3.88
(a)
Excludes one
Wednesday
in December.
Source: Reserve Bank of
Australia.
BUILDING INDUSTRY
LUMBERING TOWARDS UNITY
A\ur building industry is possibly the
most maligned in the country.
It is a complex industry by any stan-
dards. More than £420 million is spent
annually on its productivity. It provides,
within itself, employment for some
120,000 workers.
The recent proposal to transfer the
Federal secretariat of the Master Builders’
Federation of Australia from Melbourne
to Canberra is a big step to placing the
building industry on a truly national
basis. This idea requires considerable
courage and finance. And it must have
the sanction of many small builders all
over the country whose interests, of
necessity, must be very local.
The same body has also suggested to
the Federal Government that it estab-
lish a Federal Home Finance and
Mortgage Bank.
The proposal to the Federal Govern-
ment also has the merit of striving to
pass on to the ultimate home owner the
economies possible through long term
industry planning.
In this respect the Federal Govern-
ment has valuable Canadian experience
from which to draw. Canada’s Central
Mortgage and Housing Corporation is
a revenue-earning Crown Corporation.
Operating outside political control,
though directly responsible to their
Privy Council, its prime function is to
insure the mortgage risk of money lent
for home construction— not by itself, but
by approved lenders. Last year the
Canadian system insured the mortgage
risk of 110,000 domestic home com-
mencements.
Our building industry has had to learn
the benefits possible through legislation
which permits die construction of
special kinds of buildings. For instance
the N.S.W. Strata Title Bill opened the
way for a much wider acceptance of
home units through a new definition of
what constitutes valuable equity for
financing purposes.
Then, too, it has had to accept the
fact that if it is to survive against
increased industrialism it must accept
engineering, or manufacturing on the
site, by learning how to assemble more
prefabricated components on the job.
Without previous experience in this
new technique we have recently seen
the erection of the new 26-storey A.M.P.
building in Sydney (costing some £sm.)
in 21 months. This construction time,
according to the architects, Peddle, Thorp
and Walker, is equal to, and in some
cases better than, anywhere else in the
world. Our building industry also
appreciates that changes on the job in
our assembly methods must be improved.
It appreciates that economies must
be worked out through a reduction of
waste, which is caused by the lack of
uniform standards of volume measure-
ment as they apply to components used
by the building industry. Representatives
of all phases of the industry are currently
working towards this objective in State
divisions of the Australian Modular
Society in Queensland, New South Wales,
A.C.T., Victoria and South Australia.
New markets are being created as
more and more people come to see how
a new home looks fully furnished, and
set in landscaped suburban surroundings.
The builder must learn new ways of
selling “ready-made” homes. He must
also learn how to buy land and road,
kerb and landscape his homes before
selling them. Applying engineering
principles to the construction industry
some builders are now turning their
thoughts towards the possibility of
adopting some aspects of payment by
production systems.
A builder must constantly try and
find out whether the multitude of new
materials and building systems, which,
are coming on to the market, will be of
any use to him. He must accept many
untried products and experiment for him-
self to see whether they will perform as
expected. We need not touch the fore-
lock nor bend the knee about these
advances. All we need to do is appreciate
that, though there is still much to be
done, the building industry—despite its
size and complexity—is slowly lumbering
towards unity—whatever many people
might say.
B. H. CLAPCOTT.
SHORT-TERM MONEY MARKET
EXCHANGE RATES (T/T)
AUSTRALIA ON
LONDON
£A to £stgloo .. .. 125
NEW ZEALAND
£ A to £NZIOO .. .. .. 124
U.S.A.
$1 to £AI .. .. .. 2.2547
BELGIUM
Francs to £AI .. .. 112.90
FRANCE
New Francs to £AI .. 11.092
ITALY
Lire to £AI .. .. 1407
JAPAN
Yen to £AI 819.6
SWITZERLAND
Francs to £AI 9.806
WEST GERMANY
DM to £AI 9.054
HONG KONG
Pence Australia to H.K. .. 18 17/32
LONDON METAL PRICES, 15/3/62
(FRANK CAMBRIDGE PTY LTD)
COPPER SPOT
COPPER FWD
LEAD SPOT
LEAD FWD
ZINC SPOT
ZINC FWD
TIN SPOT
TIN FWD ..
BUYING
£stg £A
234 5 0 292 16 3
235 0 0 293 15 0
60 10 0 75 12 6
60 10 0 75 12 6
68 17 6 86 1 11
69 12 6 87 0 8
963 10 0 1204 7 6
964 0 0 1205 0 0
SELLING
£stg £A
234 10 0 293 2 6
235 10 0 294 7 6
60 12 6 75 15 8
60 12 6 7.5 15 S
69 0 0 86 5 0
69 15 0 87 3 9
964 0 0 1205 0 9
964 10 0 1205 12 6


CLYDE
SECURITIES LIMITED
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
earning interest at the
rate of 8% per annum
for 6 or 10 years at the
option of the subscriber
SUBSCRIPTIONS
are payable at the option of the subscriber:
• IN FULL on application
• OR 50% on application with balance of 50% by one
payment within 3 months of date of allotment.
• Trustees for the Debenture Holders: The M.LC.
Nominees Limited.
• Consolidated Tangible Assets of Clyde Securities
Limited, available as cover for First Mortgage Deben-
ture Stock exceed £3,250,000.
UNDERWRITERS
lAN POTTER & CO.
Applications for Debenture Stock accepted only on
form of application attached to Prospectus, obtainable
from:
• Any Branch of Clyde Securities Limited
• Any Branch of the E.S. & A. Bank
• Members of recognised Stock Exchanges
• The Underwriters: lAN POTTER & CO.
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
44 Hunter St., SYDNEY 1360 Collins St., MELBOURNE
41 Currie St., ADELAIDE |250 Edward St., BRISBANE
City Chambers, CANBERRA CITY
CLYDE SECURITIES LIMITED
90 Ocean Street, EDGECLIFF, N.S.W.
269 Williamstown Road, PORT MELBOURNE
M.L.C. Building, Victoria Square, ADELAIDE
Pioneer House, 168 Edward Street, BRISBANE
Cl- Lohrmann, Tindale and Guthrie,
89 St. George's Terrace, PERTH
Nl4/92
COMPETITIVE FUELS
COAL INDUSTRY'S OIL PROBLEMS
A mid the jubilation and wishful plan-
ning around our oil hopes, little con-
sideration has been given to Australia’s
other energy resources. Some implica-
tions of the possible oil programme may
be worrying the coal companies and
the Joint Coal Board.
The coal industry must adapt itself to
cope with steadily increasing sales of
fuel oil —a residue after refining the
lighter fractions (motor spirit, kerosene
and diesel oil) from crude. Existing local
plants are producing residual fuel well
above the level of market requirements.
The Joint Coal Board’s projections had
already suggested greatly increased com-
petition by the mid-sixties. They were
able to take into account the upsurge of
refining capacity now coming to fruition.
Were Moonie and any other fields to
come into production, the long-run cost
position of end-products from Australian
refining would strikingly improve, to the
detriment of indigenous coal. Past battles
have forced coal producers all over the
world towards greater efficiency and
lower costs. Australia, and NSW in
particular, is no exception. And yet
petroleum products are still tending to
lift their sales at a higher rate than the
overall growth of the total fuel market.
Coal’s share went back from 55.2 to
53.6 per cent, in 1960-61, whereas fuel
oils moved from 23.7 to 24.2 per cent.
It is not enough for us to contemplate
joyously the vast savings in foreign
exchange our possible oil discoveries may
bring. We should be taking a long term
view at a balanced position for our other
energy suppliers.
Coal thrusts forward for attention,
because the industry’s efficiency and
vigor have shaken off the old torpor.
Coal and oil, here as elsewhere, have
more than matched the over-optimistic
cheapness once believed to be a feature
of atomic power. This allows Australian
coal to view its export hopes with genuine
optimism.
Many export eyes, perhaps too many,
arc gathering to the demands of the
rapidly expanding Japanese steel industry.
It is naturally some comfort that Austra-
lian suppliers can compete so favorably
in this market.
A good deal of local jockeying may
soon be visible, since three States—
NSW, Queensland and Western Austra-
lia —are cultivating Japan. NSW alone
expects to be sending three million tons a
year by 1963.
But these pleasant prospects must not
mask the difficulties ahead. Oil may
bring its problems, so that the possible
energy pattern of the Australian economy
should be examined now.
V. WORSTEAD


NOTES ON THE NEWS
AUSTRALIA
• 'T'he president of the Australian Petroleum Exploration Association,
Mr R. C. Sprigg, said at the Australian Petroleum Exploration
Conference in Sydney last week that Australia had great oil potential. He
hoped “there will be many significant commercial fields.” He added that he
did not “think there is any doubt about the future of the industry,” but felt
that “we have to educate the Australian public to the possibilities.” Mr Sprigg
said he does not expect Australia to become self-sufficient in oil.
• Hire-purchase outstandings in February, 1962, fell by £3m. to £3Bom.
The corresponding fall in January was £6m.
• Registered unemployment in Australia in February fell by 19,246 to
112,250. This represents 2.6 per cent, of the estimated total work force,
compared with 3.1 per cent, at the end of January, 1962.
• Australia has now repaid in full the drawing of £7Bm. which it
obtained from the International Monetary Fund on April 28, 1961.
• Mr Z. Rakowicz, managing director of Metalexport, Warsaw, Poland’s
largest exporter and importer of railway rolling stock, machine tools,
textile machinery and other metal products, and vice chairman of the
Polish Chamber of Foreign Trade, arrived in Sydney late last week for
a series of business talks. Metalexport has more than 150 metal and wood-
working machine tools operating in over 40 factories in Australia.
• Criticising Britain’s reduction of Australia’s butter quota to 62,000
tons for the year from April 1, 1962, the Acting Minister for Trade,
Senator N. H. D. Henty, described it as “disappointing.”
• Merino fleece and skirtings were fully firm on the last day of the 13th
wool sales series in Sydney.
OVERSEAS
• A/Tr J- McEwen, Australian Minister for Trade, has ended his first
1 round of talks in London. He held two conferences with the British
Deputy Foreign Minister, Mr A. Heath, and separate meetings with the
Commonwealth Relations Secretary, Mr Duncan Sandys, and the Home
Secretary, Mr R. A. Butler. Mr McEwen will continue negotiations in Paris.
• British and Common Market officials are believed to have agreed that,
whenever problems of the sale of Australian food are discussed, Australia
should be allowed to send a representative to the meetings to state
Canberra’s case. However, this representative will not be allowed to take
full part in the discussions, and Australia will not be allowed to participate
in Common Market Ministerial meetings.
• The East German Premier, Mr Ulbricht, has asked the Polish Govern-
ment for 5000 skilled miners and chemical workers for periods ranging
from three to five years. The East German regime has also asked Poland
to raise by 50 per cent, its deliveries of meat, butter and other foodstuffs.
• The bank of England bank rate was cut by half a per cent, to 5 per
cent, last week. This is the second half a per cent, reduction in a fortnight.
• The New Zealand Minister for Overseas Trade, Mr J. R. Marshall,
said in Sydney that South-east Asian countries could offer New Zealand
only “marginal markets” for her agricultural products.
• The United States has asked Hong Kong to limit its cotton textiles
exports to America, particularly gingham, sheeting, knit shirts, cardigans
and sweaters.
• The Japanese Finance Ministry announced an adverse trade balance of
USsll6.9m. for February, 1962.
ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
HThe Minister of Labor and National
A Service is breathing a little more
freely again after February’s drop of
19,246 to 112,250 in the number of regis-
tered unemployed. For all the failure of
February’s hire-purchase outstandings
and bank advances to rise, the employ-
ment figures were highly satisfactory. But
the question now is whether this good
work can be kept up.
Perhaps the most reassuring aspect is
that the bulk of the employment in-
crease occurred in factories including
the motor, textile, and building equipment
industries, all crucially important as
labor absorbers. The February produc-
tion figures pointed to a sharp recovery
in these key industries, even if showing
that at least motors and some building
materials (cement and hardboard for
instance) have not yet climbed back to
their levels of a year ago. And while not
being spectacular, the February building
figures were also promising.
Looking rather deeper into re-employ-
ment factors, one could wish for more
tangible signs that a wave of new in-
dustrial investment was in sight.
Maybe it is somewhat soon yet for the
industry to have grasped the golden
opportunity offered in this direction by
the investment allowances.
Gross private fixed investment is still
very little off the bottom, and far below
the peak levels of the second half of
1960.
J.H.
SHIPPING
P AND O-ORIENT LINES
HThe Australian shipping industry has
A not been unique in its struggle for
survival. Even one of the most inte-
grated groups in the world, the giant P.
and O. Co. has experienced squally con-
ditions. In short, there are too many
ships in the world. Tankers and ore
carriers, unable to find normal cargoes,
have transferred to the grain trade, upset-
ting the whole balance of dry-cargo-
tonnage supply and demand.
Group profit before tax fell from
£5tg5,846,055 in 1960 to £5tg579,306 in
the year to September 30, 1961. This
was slightly ameliorated in that, in 1960,
£634,233 tax was payable, whereas
£184,371 is recoverable in 1961. Ordinary
shareholders received a 6 p.c. div. com-
pared with 11 p.c. in previous years. The
latest distribution represents about three-
quarters of one per cent, of the total
£220 million capital employed. Although
appreciably more passengers were


*
C,
What is Factoring?
“Factoring is becoming a popular word
in finance” and “many people have only
a hazy idea of what is meant by
‘factoring’.”
So comments the Financial Editor of the
Sunday Telegraph (11th March, 1962).
To enlighten the paper’s readers the
Financial Editor then thought well to
quote various extracts from the prospec-
tus of the Registered First Mortgage
Debenture Stock Issue by Talcott Fac-
tors Limited as detailing with clarity the
Talcott Way of factoring.
Whether you be a sophisticated investor
requiring an attractive investment, a
manufacturer or merchant requiring
additional finance to expand your busi-
ness, or just the “man in the street” who
desires to keep abreast of latest financial
methods, you should not fail to read the
interesting and lucid description of the
manner factoring business is written by
Talcott Factors Limited as contained in
the current prospectus of its First
Mortgage Debenture Stock Issue.
The TALCOTT Way
is the Safe Way
Safe business for the company by reason of
its thorough grip of the industry and its
pioneer methods of writing business. A safe
and secure investment is available to
investors.
The Company’s services are undoubtedly
proving an inexpensive boon to expanding
businesses desiring additional finance.
To Talcott Factors Limited
188-194 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Please mail me free of charge, and without obligation,
the Talcott way of factoring as explained in the
* prospectus of your Debenture Stock Issue.
NAME
ADDRESS
TFFT/C2
♦Explanatory prospectus is yours for the asking at
any branch in N.S.W. or Victoria of Bank of New
South Wales, The Commercial Bank of Australia
Limited or Australia and New Zealand Bank Ltd.
TALCOTT FACTORS LTD.
carried, costs —particularly crew costs —
reduced net earnings. Oil remained the
only falling cost.
The Oriana and the Canberra gave a
greater immediate stimulus to sea travel
than any other two passenger ships
before. Passenger ships, as a whole, are
making a cash profit, but surpluses are
not sufficient to cover depreciation.
The group’s annual depreciation
charge rose from £11.9 million to £l4
million. Results of the Australian freight
trade were disappointing.
Net liquid assets continued to decline.
Directors predict that cash resources will
be at their lowest in 1962-63. The short-
term facilities available should support
the co.’s cash flow, and, after a year or
two, internal resources should build up
again.
Present commitments for new tonnage
are £15,850,000, the lowest since 1950.
The co. has deferred ordering its next
group of ships.
PINEAPPLES
AUSTRIAN POSSIBILITIES
'T'here is a growing demand for Aus-
A tralian dried and tinned fruits and
fruit juices in Austria and West Ger-
many. The outlook for pineapples looks
particularly promising—but only if
somebody goes out and sells them.
Dr Peter Fitz, the Austrian Trade
Delegate in Australia, told The Bulletin
that Austrians have developed quite a
taste for pineapple juice. In addition to
pineapples, Austria imports all her citrus
fruit requirements. Moreover, there is
a special reduction in the tariff on
imports of apples and pears during the
European winter months, when there are
no domestic temperate climate fruits
marketed. Australia could take advant-
age of this difference in seasons.
Dr Fitz said that a number of well-
established Austrian firms would be in-
terested in acting as agents for Aus-
tralian fruit exporters.
ADVERTISING
TOO MUCH OR NOT ENOUGH?
'T'hese days, many Australian managers
A have grave misgivings whether they
are receiving sufficient value for their
expenditure on advertising.
Mr John Bowden, Federal Director
of the Australian Association of National
Advertisers (AANA), recently said:
“This is because agencies are not selling
advertising :nd management does not
understand the correct function of the
medium.”
“Advertising,” said Mr Bow Jen, “is
being asked to do what it cannot do.
Apart from mail order advertising it has
never sold anything. Its job is to com-
municate. For that reason much adver-
tising is wrongly applied.”
Mr Bowden said that in addition to
advertising the following factors also
influenced the possibility of a sale the
product itself, point of purchase, packag-
ing, personal selling, promotional sales
aids, unpaid publicity and price.
“Yet agencies,” he continued “through
poor management methods give adver-
tisers few specific items of evidence and
proof that they are, in fact, receiving
value for sums presently spent ~n ad-
vertising.”
The advertising industry handles some
£l2sm. annually. In Australia, members
of the AAN A spend eighty per cent, of
that amount. But Australia, by American
standards, could afford to spend more on
advertising. In that country 3.5 per cent
of the sales figure is spent on advertis-
ing. In this country it is 2.6 per cent.
B.H.C.


COMPANY REVIEWS AND NOTES
THIESS HOLDINGS LTD
BIG FUTURE IN COAL
A comparatively new listing, Thiess
*** Holdings Ltd is established today as
one of Australia’s foremost civil con-
tractors.
However, Thiess’ long-term prosperity
could well depend upon the successful
development of the co.’s coal leases at
Kianga and Moura. Thiess recently
formed a jointly owned £2 million co.
along with Peabody Coal Co. of the US
to expand output of these fields in
Queensland to 2 million tons a year.
Expenditure could run to £l5 million in
the next six years. This will include the
rebuilding of a 100-mile railway to the
port of Gladstone (Q.)
Thiess and Peabody plan shipment
of coal to Japan—to the fast-growing
Japanese steel industry. In fact, Thiess
is already shipping coal to Japan and,
in January last, the co. announced firm
orders for 3,400,000 tons of coal to be
delivered over the next seven years.
These orders have been estimated at earn-
ing more than £l4 million in overseas
income when finally executed.
The huge Japanese-based Mitsui com-
plex will act as agent for the Thiess-
Peabody interests, and, at a later date,
may even join as partner in the venture.
Peabody, in its own right, controls 25
operating coal mines in the US which,
in aggregate, produce 30 million tons of
coal a year, worth upwards of £6O
million.
As development at Kianga-Moura
proceeds, Thiess may find it necessary to
seek further funds. It is not yet certain
how this will be done. But, in November
last, chairman J. W. Peden said that
directors “have no intention of making
a further issue at this stage of the
company’s operations.” At the same
time, moves were initiated to expand
nominal capital by £3 million to £5
million.
Should Thiess eventually turn to
shareholders before Kianga-Moura gets
under way, it may strike difficulty in
maintaining div. rates. But the problem
is not insurmountable and Thiess has
managed so far. Paid capital has been
increased from £437,870, at initial listing,
to £1,953,459, the present register.
Thiess is an earthmover, civil-engineer-
ing contractor and coalminer, deals in
heavy-engineering machinery and
operates a garage at Scone in NSW
(where it holds the Ford franchise for
the area). The co. also undertakes the
stevedoring of colliers carrying Callide
coal from Gladstone (Q). Subsidiaries
operate the Australian dealership for
Japanese-made Toyota land-cruisers and
the Massey Ferguson franchise for
greater Brisbane. The group owns work-
shops at Yeerongpilly and Miami (both
in Q) and at Mascot and Muswellbrook
(NSW).
Subsidiaries operate in Queensland
(the home State), NSW, Victoria and
WA:
Queensland: Thiess Bros. (Old.) Pty., Ltd.;
Thiess (Northern Territory) Pty.; Gladstone
Stevedoring Pty.; Thiess Callide Coal Pty.
(and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Callide
Opencut Collieries Pty. and Biloela Opencut
Pty.).
New South Wales: Thiess Bros. Pty.; Thiess
(Repairs) Pty.; Farm and Transport Service
Pty.;
Victoria: Thiess Bros. (Vic.) Pty.
Queensland and N.S.W: Thiess Sales Pty.
Western Australia: Perron Bros. Pty.
In January last, Thiess secured two
S.M.H.E.A. contracts worth, in aggregate,
£18.9 million —on the Geehi dam and
Murray I pressure tunnel. Thiess quotes
were lowest of 17 tenders from seven
contracting groups in Australia, France,
Italy, Great Britain, Canada and the
US. They were £1.3 million under costs
estimated by the Authority. Thiess
estimates were based on a new tunnelling
method which is calculated to yield big
savings. The co. will also benefit by
know-how obtained on previous jobs as
well as by facilities and plant already
in the area.
Indeed, it is on the Snowy Scheme
that the group has written some of its
most spectacular contracts. Here, in
June, 1958, it received £9 million worth
of work diverting the Tooma River into
the Tumut River. The project was com-
pleted well ahead of schedule.
Turning to performance in last term:
consolidated net profit for the year
ended June 30, 1961, finished up
£19,295, or 10.3 p.c., higher at £206,459,
after setting aside depreciation £589,128
(down £134,415) and tax £54,164 (down
£62,621):
Thiess Holdings Ltd, and Subsidiaries
Net Re-
June Profit. , serves.*
30, £ £ £
Pre-acquisition reserves .. .. 638,826
Less adjustment to minority interests
of former subsidiary, £847 .. 637,979
Assets revaluation, £BO,OOO .. 717,979
Less unexplained reduction reserves,
£2541 715,438
1959 .. 146,173 16f = 72,978 788,633
Share-premiums, £437,870 . . . . 1,226,503
xVdjustments, £376 .. .. .. 1,226,879
1960 .. 187,164 12) = 132,273 1,281,770
Share premiums, £342,205 . . 1,623,975
Adjustments, £2927 .. . . 1,621,048
1961 .. 206,459 121 = 187,606 1,639,901
* Subject to £415,543 intangibles at 30/6/61.
This represented an earning rate of 13.8
p.c. on average capital compared with
17.7 p.c. in the previous 12 months and
33.4 p.c. in 1959. Divs remained steady
at p.c., absorbing £187,606. Reserves
were shown, finally, a solid £1,639,901,
but subject to goodwill, £415,543.
During the year Thiess treated share-
holders to a one-for-four issue at a
premium of Is. 3d. A further 1,062,000
ss. deferred ords, again at a premium
and ranking for divs from July 1, 1963,
were issued to acquire Perron Bros Pty,
the largest earth-moving co. in WA, and
its subsidiary, West Australian Steel Pro-
ducts Ltd. Total premiums aggregated
£342,205.
The tax provision, at £54,164, indi-
cates a net profit of £Bl,OOO-odd, but
“certain subsidiary companies which
operated at a profit for the year under
review were able to apply past losses
against these profits.”
Latest effort had gross proceeds, the
group as a whole, topping £13.8 million
(£10.5 million in the preceding term).
There were £12.5 million-worth of con-
tracts on hand at close of accounts (£19.7
million at June 30, 1960), with work
not then completed valued around £5.4
million (£8.4 million). The value of con-
tracts in hand, including coal orders
from Japan, has since grown to £18.3
million (November 30 last). This figure
has increased again with the January
S.M.H.E.A. contracts and further coal
orders from Japan. Value of uncom-
pleted work at November 30 had grown
to £l2 million.
Balance-sheet movements show hefty
investment in plant and mine develop-
ment. Sundry creditors and bank over-
draft rose sharply, but loans on mortgage
were reduced. Debtors increased two-
fold :
1959. 1960. 1961.
Paid capital .. £875,740 £1,313,610 £1,953,459
Reserves . . . . 788,633 1,281,770 1,639,901
Outside interests 3,630
Unsecured loans .. 157,500 135,000 112,500
Mortgages and h.p. 1,335,622 1,043,980 689,658
Notes . . .. 350,000
Overdraft . . 208,684 22,263 107,998
Creditors .. . . 1,137,839 1,456,998 1,806,937
Tax . . . . 184,279 138,476 40,273
Provision for open-
cut restoration,
etc 18,463 18,463 118,485
Final dividend .. 36,489 77,539 105,497
£4,746,929 £5,488,099 £6,924,708
Freeholds . . .. 281,600 283,457 296,530
Leasehold improve-
ments . . . . 98,489 94,504 89,526
Coal mining leases 95,000 95,000 95,000
Mine development 41,311 130,575 335,436
Plant and
machinery .. 1,816,036 2,161,683 2,515,208
Shares other cos. 10,463 30,926 57,444
Stocks and work-
in-progress . . 1,489,779 1,426,980 1,065,977
Debtors . . . . 597,972 880,298 1,639,987
Cash deposits . . 179,018 245,991 323,922
Overburden-renewal.
etc 33,204 34,628 90,135
Goodwill . . . . 104,057 104,057 415,543
£4,746,929 £5,488,099 £6,924,708
The co. raised £350,000 in registered
unsecured notes repayable 1964-70. Net
tangible asset backing worked out,
finally, at Bs. Id. for each ss. stock unit.
Thiess’ future is inextricably bound
up with that of the Kianga-Moura coal
deposits. Prospects are sound, especially


in the longer term. By contrast with
contracting where some losses were
experienced in last term, the Thiess-
Peabody venture would seem to offer
much greater security of income.
Meantime, although the venture is to
be financed mainly from loan funds
found by Peabody, Thiess may have to
find some cash to pay for its equity in
the project.
With earning rates dwindling and con-
tracting a very competitive business—-
more so now than before —Thiess may
have to bide its next bout of prosperity
until its coal venture is really estab-
lished. The co. will have to boost earn-
ings in the current term if it is to cover
the 12y p.c. div. on present capital, even
excluding the deferred shares.
For those prepared to wait the medium
to long term, Thiess ss. ords look a
reasonable buy. At 11s. 7d., immediate
yield from a p.c. div. is reckoned at
5.4 p.c.
THE T.&G. MUTUAL LIFE
FURTHER PROGRESS IN 1961
A lthough most sections of the
economy had a hard time in 1961,
the life offices in the main again reported
record business and the Australasian
Temperance and General Mutual Life
Assurance Society, Ltd, to give the 85-
year-old co. its formal appellation, was
no exception.
The co. writes ordinary, industrial and
accident policies. Subsidiaries are T. and
G. Fire and General Insurance, T. and G.
Nominees Pty and T. and G. Mutual
Nominees Pty.
The following table gives an idea of
the trend of growth over the past two
decades:—
f £ million N
1941. 1951. 1961.
Assurances in force .. . . 101.0 234.6 546.3
Income .. .. .. ~ 6.8 13.5 33.0
Assets .. .. .. .. 37.0 78.1 176.3
Payments to policyholders .. 3.0 5.0 15.0
Fewer policies were written last term, but
the amounts assured rose.
In the ordinary life department, the
number of policies was down by 2053 to
52,636, but these assured £69,517,231 (up
£6,345,631), excluding temporary assur-
ances, and £156,346 (up £25,784) p.a. of
annuities.
In the industrial department 36,433
new policies were recorded (down 396)
assuring £5,449,692 (up £119,415). Pre-
miums reached £277,479 p.a. (up £9367).
Total new assurances rose by £6,465,046
to £74,966,923.
The following tables summarise the
progress in the two life departments from
September 30, 1956, to September 30,
1961:
Ordinary Life Department.
Assurance
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds.
£ £>£>£,
1958.. 17,307,244 2,552,893 5,775,076 96,855,655
To staff fund, £29,430 .. .. 96,826,225
To exchange reserve, £lll,OOO .. 96,715,225
1959* 19,482,667 2,974,356 6,740,599 106,482,937
To staff fund, £67,695 .. .. 106,415,242
To exchange reserve, £178,039 . . 106,237,203
Net addition funds, £2,880,366 .. 109,117,569
1960* 21,518,485 3,393,367 7,719,225 119,523,462
Surplus sale assets, £100,948 .. 119,624,410
To reserves,! £lOO,OOO .. .. 119,524,410
To assets write-down, £191,987 . . 119,332,423
To staff fund, £51,061 . . . . 119,281,362
1961* 26,267,456 3,771,189 9,436,835 132,340,794
To loss sale assets, £91,059 .. 132,249,735
To assets write-down, £82,175 .. 132,167,560
To reserves,! £99,645 .. .. 132,067,915
To staff fund, £46,320 .. .. 132,021,595
Industrial Life Department.
Assurance
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds.
£ £ £ £
1958.. 5,659,684 1,633,581 2,271,652 32,772,424
To staff fund, £19,020 . . .. 32,753,404
To exchange reserve, £39,000 .. 32,714,404
1959* 5,988,013 1,559,152 2,348,344 34,794,921
To staff fund, £32,312 .. .. 34,762,609
To exchange reserve, £42,500 .. 34,720,109
Net addition funds, £1,544,683 .. 36,264,792
1960* 6,095,022 1,567,399 3,657,653 37,134,762
Surplus sale assets, £31,878 .. 37,166,640
To reserves,! £24,000 . . . . 37,142,640
To assets write-down, £66,287 .. 37,076,353
To staff fund, £22,308 . . . . 37,054,045
1961* 5,960,896 1,562,719 5,245,556 36,206,666
To loss sale assets, £27,199 .. 36,179,467
To assets write-down, £27,929 .. 36,151,538
To reserves,! £15,588 .. .. 36,135,950
To staff fund, £17,778 .. .. 36,118,172
* Australian currency. Prior to 1959, no distinction
was made between Australian and New Zealand
pounds. ! Transferred to contingency and currency
reserves.
Ordinary department income for the year
ended September 30, 1961, was £4,748,971
higher at £26,267,456. Expenses increased
by £377,822 to £3,771,189 and claims by
£1,717,610 to £9,436,835. A loss of
£91,059 was incurred on the sale of assets
and a further £82,175 was used to write
down assets. Contingency and currency
reserve gained £99,645 and £46,320 went
to the staff fund. O.D. assurance and
annuity funds were disclosed at
£132,021,595—a gain of £12,740,233 on
the year.
Income of the industrial department
fell by £134,126 to £5,960,896, due to a
drop of £201,643 in premium income to
£4,020,071, partly offset by a £67,517 rise
in divs., interest, rent, etc., to £1,940,825.
Expenses edged down by £4680 to
£1,562,719. However, maturities showed
a big jump of £1,513,691 to £4,324,812
causing total I.D. claims to rise by
£1,587,903. A loss of £27,199 was in-
curred on assets realisation and a further
£27,929 was written off this item. Con-
tingency and currency reserve received
£15,588 and staff fund £17,778.
The net effect of these transactions
was to reduce I.D. assurance funds by
£935,873 to £36,118,172 on the year.
Accident business is still small com-
pared with the rest. Still, premiums rose
by £22,663 to £695,743, and claims re-
mained at a satisfactory level. Assurance
funds of the department rose by £36,056
to £492,637.
Development of subsidiaries, the first
two of which were spawned in 1958, was
also “satisfactory.”
Total income in all departments last
term was £4,646,127 higher at
£32,957,263. Premium income rose by
£3,808,822 to £24,436,779 ; interest, divi-
dends and net rents by £834,541 to
£8,514,105 ; and sundry income by £2764
to £6379.
Ordihary department income accounted
for most of the total, £26,267,456. Indus-
trial department brought in £5,960,896
and accident £728,911.
The effective interest rate —one of the
acid-tests for a life office—maintained its
upward trend. The rise in 1961 was 3s. 2d.
p.c. to £5 7s. 4d. p.c. after a gain of
ss. 2d. p.c. in the previous term.
Payments to policyholders and bene-
ficiaries totalled £14,961,185 (up
£3,301,183). In the life departments,
death claims amounted to £2,354,350 (up
£376,664), which again was well within
actuarial expectations. Maturities totalled
£8,944,440 (up £2,143,727). Surrenders
amounted to £3,283,183.
The surplus available for distribution
(excess of assurance funds over actuarial
liabilities under policies) in the life de-
partments increased by £520,721:
1959. 1960. 1961.
Net surplus—
Ordinary .. £3,684,702 £4,298,738 £4,793,560
Industrial 760,356 896,888 922,787
£4,455,058 £5,195,626* £5,716,347!
•After transfers of £258,274 to assets write-down
and £124,000 to contingency and currency reserve,
t After transfers of £110,104 to assets write-down
and £115,233 to contingency and currency reserve.
All surplus goes to policyholders as there
are no shareholders.
The Actuary reported that conservative
bases of valuation were used and pro-
visions made for all liabilities and re-
serves. He recommended £5,536,216 (up
£518,888) reversionary bonuses and “extra


ED
is e*
m
WKHIf
saSEI
WHY PAMPER FREIGHT?
Handling over 22,000,000 tons of freight each
year, we’ve learned to pamper it! Over the
years (and we’ve been in the transport business
over a century) we’ve built up a fleet of roll-
ingstocli that can move all types of traffic.
The Railway offers you a particular type of
wagon for your particular freight. General mer-
chandise? Perishables? Frozen meat? Ores and
concentrates? Whatever it is wherever you
want it to go —there’s a unit of rail rollingstock
built specifically for your needs. And remember,
the Railway, per ton mile, is the most economical
form of land transport.
Ring MA 7861 to have a Commercial Agent call
and discuss your freight problem or write
Commercial Manager (Special Services Section)
Department of Railways, Sydney Station.
NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT
RAILWAVS
benefits.” This meant a bigger slice of
the assurance cake for T. and G. policy-
holders in with increases in both
the O.D. (including superannuation) and
ID., as well as on “sums becoming pay-
able to certain policyholders in the
Accident Department.”
Total assets at balance date were shown
at £176,253,777 (up £11,058,129):
r- ——1960. ~v —1961.
£ P.c. £ P.c.
Public securities 75,129,972 45.5 74,575,254 42.4
Mortgages, etc.* 59,742,144 36.2 67,687,210 38.4
Company shares,
debentures . . 19,084,872 11.6 21,408,096 12.1
Freeholds, etc. 6,673,307 4.0 7,531,813 4.3
Cash, debtors 4,565,353 2.7 5,051,404 2.8
£165,195,648 £176,253,777
* Includes loans on policies.
Public securities, at £74,575,254, repre-
sented 42.4 p.c. of total assets in 1961,
compared to 45.5 o.c. in 1960, 49.1 p.c.
in 1959, 52.9 p.c. in 1958, 57 p.c. in 1957,
CO p.c. in 1956 and 64.6 p.c. in 1955. This
w, matched by steady corresponding in-
creases in holdings of mortgages, loans,
co. shares and debentures, freeholds,
etc. '"'he trend towards investments with
higher income-yields and opportunities
for capital-gains, as against what was once
traditionally imagined to be the only
“really safe” capital-placement (public
secur es), has in post-war years become
characteristic of the assurance and in-
surance houses in Australia and NZ. It
ha: been partially responsible for sus-
taining a higher rate of economic growth
than would have been possible otherwise.
The co., however, is affected by one of
the fiscal measures introduced by *he
Commonwealth Government in its eco-
nomic curbs of November, 1960, requir-
ing that the life houses invest 30 p.c. of
their funds in public securities, of which
20 p.c. must be in Commonwealth loans.
The latest T. and G. balance sheet
shows that only £25,298,370, or 14.4 p.c.
of the co.’s assets were in Australian
and New Zealand Government loans.
Unless the Government rescinds this
edict, the co. will have to establish the
30 : I i ratio by 1969 or “incur a very
substantial tax penalty.”
Subject to any effects this policy may
have on earnings, the co. stands as one
of the most energetic and prosperous in
the field.
Policyholders enjoy security plus the
added inducement of satisfactory lifts in
the rate of reversionary bonuses.
THE HERALD AND WEEKLY TIMES
EARNING RATE HIGHER
r T"'HE 121-year-old Melbourne “Herald”
■*- and its companion, the “Sun News-
Pictorial,” form the nucleus of the pros-
perous Herald and Weekly Times or-
ganisation, but the group’s interests,
through subsidiary and associated cos,
extend far beyond the borders of Vic-
toria.
Australia’s largest publishing-house,
H. and W.T. is one of the founders and
a principal shareholder in Australian
Newsprint Mills Ltd (2,446,939 20s.
shares fully-paid) which provides upwards
of 30 p.c. of all newsprint consumed in
Australia. The co. is also a major share-
holder in Queensland Press Ltd (1,793,800
10s. shares f.-p.), Advertiser Newspapers
Ltd (1,484,430 ss. shares f.-p.) and David
Syme and Co. Ltd (354,300 ss. shares
f.-p-).
The greater part of the David Syme
shareholding, 334,300 shares in all, was
acquired during last term, in the 12
months to September 30, 1961. The move
was affected “as a matter of prudence”
for it would seem, in Melbourne, that
the H. and W.T. and the David Syme
interests are but friendly rivals. Indeed,
H. and W.T. directors have indicated
“their willingness to sell these shares,
at the price we bought them, to the main
interests in the David Syme ownership.”
So be it. H. and W.T. is clearly con-
cerned to prevent control of the “Age”
from passing outside its effective juris-
diction, especially into the hands of inter-
state rivals.
Total investment in shares, notes and
debentures, in at par, is disclosed at
£4,252,888 in H. and W.T.’s latest balance
sheet, brought down at September 30
last. Write-down from purchase price
was made by appropriation of profits,
£197,084, and transfer from provision for
development and deferred expenditure,
£476,424. H. and W.T. has taken up,
more recently, another 100,000 10s. ords
in Queensland Press.
Apart from its two dailies, the
“Herald" and the “Sun News-Pictorial,”
H. and W.T. produces the “Weekly
Times,” “The Sporting Globe,” “The
Listener In-TV,” “The Australian Home
Beautiful,” “Aircraft,” “Australasian
Post” and “Your Garden.”
Other interests, all Victorian, include
broadcasting stations 3DB and 3LK, a
book-publishing division, and an .85 p.c.
interest in Herald-Sun TV Pty owning
HSV Channel 7.
Last term's profit, breaking all
previous records, was written despite the
full impact upon advertising of the
economic measures imposed by the
Federal Government. Advertising
revenues increased until the end ol Feb-
ruary, 1961, but, from then on, declined.
Diversification paid off. The relatively
new enterprises, Herald-Sun TV and
Herald Gravure Printers, paid handsome
dividends. Income flowed in from pro-
perty and share investments. The co.
assailed rising costs, in relation to falling
advertising revenue, but “quality” of work
was contained. There were substantial
gains from a small reduction in news-
print prices and the co. initiated a policy
of non-replacement of staff. There were
no retrenchments.
As with profit, so too with circulation:
in the final six months trading, circulation


CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on Bth March, 1950.
(ASSETS EXCEED £10,000,000.)
°/
/€
O
PER ANNUM
3 YEARS
REGISTERED REDEEMABLE UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES
Funds may be withdrawn in a personal emergency
Applications for redeemable unsecured deposit notes accepted only on
application attached to prospectus, obtainable from
Principal Offices of the Bank of N.S.W„
in all capital cities.
OR
The Company's Offices:
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: sth Floor, T. & G. Building, 137 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street.
NEWCASTLE: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter Street,
Newcastle West.
OR
Any Member of a Stock Exchange
Underwriting Brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melb.)
CC. 128/AB
of the “Herald” was boosted to an all
time high, 469,792, the “Weekly Times”
circulation touched a new peak, 110,988,
and “Sun” figures rose to 566,000. All
other publications received continued
support.
Consolidated net profit was finally
determined at £1,884,988 (up £117,248)
after paying £25,439 to outside share-
holders, charging £940,500 for taxation
(down £33,953) and writing off £509,659
tc depreciation (down £51,399):
Parent and Subsidiaries.
/— — Dividends N
, Pref. ,
Sept. Profit. 6J p.c. 6 p.c. , —Ordinary—, Reserves.
30, £ £ £ p.c. £ £
’58.. 1,186,950 8,125 16,500 22i= 548,154 4,923,314
Tax overprovided, £8374 .. .. 4,931,688
Less premium on shares, £671,000. . 4,260,688
General reserve, £3,081,759 .. 7,342,447
Revaluation assets, £139,984 .. 7,482,431
Reserve on contingencies, £34,123 . . 7,516,554
’59.. 1,288,114 8,125 16,500 20 = 760,659 8,019,384
Tax overprovided, £6045 . . . . 8,025,429
Reserve on contingencies, £1260 . . 8,026,689
’60.. 1,764,694 8,125 16,500 8,720,559
Tax overprovided, £3047 .. .. 8,723,606
Reserve on contingencies, £2427 . . 8,726,033
Intangibles written off, £52,558 . . 8,673,475
Less provision for development and
investment fluctuation, £197,084 .. 8,476,391
Less provision for development and
deferred expenditure, £476,425 .. 7,999,966
’61.-1,884,988 8,125 16,500 8,814,130
After pref. divs., this worked out at 48.9
p.c. on ord. capital, compared with 45.8
p.c. in 1960 and 34.0 p.c. and 48.1 p.c.
back to 1958. Ord. div. was held steady
at 27| p.c. absorbing £1,046,199. Reserves
were disclosed at £7,214,130, free of
intangibles.
Paid capital, £3,804,361 in ss. ords,
£125,000 in 6\ p.c. 20s. cum. prefs and
£275.000 in 6 p.c. 20s. “B” cum. prefs, has
remained unchanged since the 1958 one-
for-two bonus issue. There was a one-
for-three issue at a premium of ss. in
1954. ’Change has been expecting some
further increase in equity for some
time now but, so far, no announcement
has been made.
The balance sheet reflects continued
investment in plant, machinery, buildings
and equipment:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1959. 1960. 1961.
Pref. .. £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Ord. .. 3,804,361 3,804,361 3,804,361
Reserves . . 6,844,384 7,295,559 7,214,130
Plant replace-
ment . . 1,175,000 1,425,000 1,600,000
Minority interest 112,705 130,542 139,347
Creditors . . 1,434,685 1,209,923 1,933,698
Tax provision 660,500 977,500 940,500
Provision for
contingencies 19,023 19,023 19,023
Unclaimed div. 1,783 2,807 3,205
Provision for
long service
leave . . 512,668 576,689 583,659
Final div. .. 551,264 773,185 773,185
£15,516,373 £16,614,589 £17,411,108
Freehold pro-
perty . . 2,411,028 2,541,552 2,919,967
Plant and
machinery . 1,713,511 2,016,442 2,304,463
Shares, deben-
tures and
notes . . 3,721,081 4,198,938 4,252,888
Stock . . 3,224,138 2,918,375 3,840,020
Debtors . . 2,678,572 3,159,952 2,964,082
Money on short
teims . . 1,100,000 1,213,500 999,500
Cash at bank 615,485 513,272 130,188
Intangibles .. 52,558 52,558
£15,516,373 £16,614,589 £17,411,108
A large paper store was purchased in
Port Melbourne and a television theatre
in Johnston Street, Fitzroy. The Argus
building was further modernised and a
site for a new building in Collins Place
was partly cleared.
The co.’s commercial printing plant at
Hawthorn was strengthened by installa-
tion of modern equipment ; also installed
were five units of reserve printing press
for the “Herald” and the “Sun” and a
further five units are in course of
erection. Installation of new plant to
handle increased circulation at higher
speed at Flinders Street was continued —
six high-speed presses were installed
during last term and another six will be
installed shortly. Another 20 units of new
presses are on order.
H. and W.T. is well buttressed to with-
stand the ups and downs of economic
pressures. The group owes little outside
its current trading debts and there are


EDWARD WARD & CO.
Members of the Stock
Exchange of Melbourne
422 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE
67-9151
LINDSAY MILDRED & CO.
Lindsay Mildred, Alfred Campbell
SHAREBROKERS
Members of the Stock Exchange
of Melbourne
56 QUEEN STREET,
MELBOURNE
62-1601
Telegraphic and Cable Address:
MILDRED MELBOURNE
LEONARD G. MAY & SON
Incorporating J. E. MARTIN, HEAD
& CO.
Partners: L. G. MAY, J. G. MAY,
V. T. HAUSER, E. W. HEAD.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS,
Ground Floor, 99 Queen Street,
Melbourne.
Telephones: MU2G3B, MC5716-7, MU2569.
Telegrams: “EENNMAY,” Melbourne.
lAN POTTER & CO.
W. lan Potter, C. T. Looker, N. K.
Miller, G. D. Brown, A. L. Shilton,
K. W. Pring, G. R. Stuckey, J. C.
Taylor.
MEMBERS OF THE STOCK
EXCHANGE OF MELBOURNE
Phones:
Melbourne 60-0231; Sydney 28-0571;
Canberra J 3934, J 3935; Brisbane
31-2096; Adelaide 51-5945.
All the
family
will love
4
Everybody's
strong interstate investments and affilia-
tions. Moreover, circulations are high,
and advertising rates are the lowest in
Australia.
But a great deal will depend upon the
strength and pace of Australia’s economic
recovery. Current levels of advertising
are increasing but still remain a long way
below those reached 12 months ago.
Present trends indicate lowered profits
at the end of the current term but
directors, meantime, are confident that
there will be “a reasonable profit.”
At the last sale in Melbourne the ss.
ords changed hands at 60s. 6d. Immediate
yield works out at 2.3 p.c. from the
21} p.c. dividend rate. The 20s. 6} p.c.
pref. shares sold at 205., to yield 6.5
p.c.; the 20s. 6 p.c. “B” fetched 20s. 6d.
to yield 5.9 p.c.
Consolidated figures give net tangible
asset backing for the 20s. 6} p.c. prefs,
the 20s. 6 p.c. “B” prefs and the ss. ords
at £lO4 2s. lid., £46 17s. 9d. and 16s. 7d.
respectively.
NEON ELECTRIC SIGNS LTD
BONUS AND CASH ISSUES
CfiNCE Claude Neon and Consolidated
Neon have joined forces under the
W. R. Carpenter banner, Neon Electric
Signs Ltd and Neon Signs (Australia)
Ltd would appear to be left as the major
independents in the field.
Neon Electric Signs Ltd was formed
in 1936 to acquire the business of Neon
Electric Signs Pty Ltd. Authorised
capital stood at £lOO,OOO in 100,000
20s. shares, of which 52,500 fully paid
ords. were issued to shareholders in the
proprietory company—so,ooo as purchase
consideration and 2500 for cash.
The Victorian-registered company
specialises in making advertising signs.
A board of associate directors of Neon
Electric Signs Ltd was formed during
1960 for closer liaison between finance,
production and sales.
Sales and production for 1961 are
considered more than satisfactory, after
taking into account the economic con-
ditions prevailing for the last eight months
of the year. The subsidiary company
traded profitably for the year ended June
30, 1961.
TLe company’s profit trebled in the
seven years from 1753. Consolidated
net profit for the vear ended June 30,
1961, was £12,274 higher ct £47,755,
after providing £33,000 for taxation
(down £2600) and writing off £128,107
for depreciation (up £6308):
Parent Co. Figures.
To Re-
June Profit. Dividend. Reserves, serves.*
30 £ £> £> £
1958.. 29,300 12J p.c. = 13,125 17,371 203,940
Profit assets, £420 204,360
Maintenance reserve, £23,569 .. .. 227,929
Insurance reserve, £620 .. .. 228,549
Tax overprovided, £346 .. .. 228,895
Less Superannuation fund; £5000.. 223,895
1959.. 35,776 12ip.c.= 13,125 22,651 246,546
Consolidated Figures.
Maintenance reserve,, £7,000 . . .. 253,546
Insurance reserve, £605 .. .. 254,151
Tax overprovided, £175 .. .. .. 254,326
1960.. 35,481 121 p.c. = 13,125 22,356 276,682
Tax overprovided, £258 .. .. 276,940
Insurance reserve, £BO7 .. .. 277,747
Asset revaluation, £61,355 .. .. 339,102
Less Maintenance reserve, £73,757 .. 265,345
1961.. 47,755 12J p.c. = 13,125 34,630 299,975
* Subject to intangibles, £30,212 at 30/6/’6l.
This represents an earning rate of 45.48
p.c. on ord. capital compared with 33.79
in 1960, 34.07 p.c. in 1959 and 27.9 p.c.
in 1958. The well-covered, steady 12}
p.c. dividend absorbed £13,125.
Reserves benefited by £34,630 from
profits, £258 tax over-provision, £BO7
increased insurance reserve and £61,355
proceeds of assets revaluation, less £73,757
transferred to maintenance reserve. Sub-
ject to £30,212 intangibles the reserves
stood at £299,975 at balance date.
Neon Electric uses an accounting policy
of capitalising its installations on hire
at factory cost of production and erect-
ion. All other items, such as sales tax
and selling and administration expenses,
are charged against profit for the year in
which they are incurred, leaving only the
erected cost to be amortised over the
period of the rental contract, usually
five years.
Paid capital was raised to £210,000 by
the almost simultaneous bonus (one-for-
two) and par (one-for-two) issues of ss.
ords. The bonus share issue was made
from the assets revaluation reserve, which
will appear in next year’s accounts.
Consolidated balance sheet figures did
not indicate any significant changes. Paid
capital remained unchanged at £105,000.
Both the mortgage and unsecured loan
were lower. Creditors were higher and
bank overdraft lower:
Parent. ,
1959. 1960. 1961.
Paid capital .. .. £105,000 £105,000 £105,000
General reserves .. 107,778 130,309 226,552
Insurance reserves .. 7,627 8,232 9,039
Maintenance reserves .. 131,141 138,141 64,384
Mortgage .. .. 43,750 41,250 38,750
Unsecured loan .. 74,800 64,700
Creditors .. .. 22,153 37,947 38,709
Overdraft .. .. 21,178 16,831
Rentals in advance .. 39,688 53,545 51,233
Long-service leave .. 13,440 19,581 20,469
Tax provision .. .. 35,250 35,600 33,000
Final dividend .. 7,875 7,875 7,875
£513,702 £673,458 £676,542
Freeholds .. .. 108,639 110,989 172,655
Plant, etc 39,295 43,321 43,015
Installations on hire .. 229,005 379,329 308,570
Stock 41,750 44,421 43,946
Debtors 41,637 58,608 69,182
Investments .. .. 750 100 100
Cash, etc 26,414 6,477 8,862
Goodwill .. .. 26,212 30,213 30,212
£513,702 £673,458 £676,542
Freeholds were higher at £172,655 after
the revaluation. Plant was lower at


GUNTON, STEEL & HILL
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS.
Members of the Sydney Stock
Exchange.
Kindersley House, 20 O’Connell
Street, Sydney.
Box 1632, G.P.O.
Telephone:
28-2611 (6 lines)
Telegrams:
“Gunot,” Sydney
Telex: Syd. 242
GILBERT HARRIMAN & CO.
STOCK AND SHAREBROKER
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
KINDERSLEY HOUSE,
7th Floor,
20 O’Connell St.,
33 Bligh St., Sydney
Telegrams:
HARRISHA. SYDNEY.
Tels: 28-8388, 28-8399
LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Sixth Floor,
56 Hunter Street, Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Telephone: BW 5721.
Telegrams and Cables:
“LAGRAM,” Sydney.
iMPH W. KING & YUILL
Members of Sydney Stock Exchange
W. Keith Yuill—Keith C. Phillips
lan C. Walton—Gordon G. King
Walter I. Summons
William S. Shugg
( non-member partner)
33 BLIGH STREET. 2 0137
84 William St., Melb. 67 5089
340 Queen St., Brisbane. 31 2191
Telegrams and Cables “Ralphking”
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane
Grafton, Tamworth and Armidale
HELP
LEGACY
all the year round. »
Donations: 169 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney. BM2OOI.
£43,015. Installations on hire fell by
£70,759 to £308,570. Stock on band was
lower at £43,946.
The company has now been registered
in Tasmania, and has received “a grati-
fying volume of new business” in that
State.
Since the close of the financial year
this conservatively managed but vigorous
and progressive company has subdivided
its 20s. ords. into ss. shares and raised its
authorised capital to £500,000.
Although the market remains highly
competitive there are indications of an
upturn in demand for the company’s
products.
At the last sale in Melbourne the ss.
ords changed hands at 245. The im-
mediate return is 2.6 p.c. on the basis
of the \2\ p.c. dividend rate.
Net tangible asset backing after share
split and bonus and cash issues is 7s. sd.
for each ss. ord. on the basis of
consolidated accounts.
R. FOWLER LTD
EARNINGS, DIVIDENDS EASE
'THE sanitaryware market continues to
A be intensely competitive and some price
cutting has developed during last term.
The effect of credit restrictions on the
building industry had reduced the over-
all demand for sanitaryware and this
resulted in substantially lower profits
for R. Fowler Ltd.
The Victorian and Queensland
branches of the company were the
hardest hit by credit squeeze during the
financial year ended September 30, 1961.
Sales in those States were reduced 21 p.c.
and 23 p.c. respectively, compared with
a fall of 4 p.c. in NSW and 2 p.c. in
South Australia.
R. Fowler Ltd. was formed in 1919
to take over the business of Hornsby Tile,
Pottery and Brickworks Ltd. The co.
is a leading manufacturer of sanitaryware,
stoneware, pipes in vitreous china and
earthware, insulators, wall-tiles, house-
hold crockery, wine-and-spirit jars and
other ceramic products.
Sanitaryware remains the company’s
principal product, accounting for 73 p.c.
of the output of its NSW factories and
for almost the whole production of its
interstate factories.
The main factory is located at Mar-
rickville, near Sydney. Other plants
operate in Victoria, Queensland and
South Australia. Mansfield Pottery Pty.
L.d., a subsidiary, has its headquarters
and workshop in Ryde (NSW). The
most recent expansion move was the
takeover of Australian Fire-clay Pty Ltd.
An active policy of development and
modernisation has been pursued in recent
years.
The lower consolidated net profit for
the year to September 30, 1961, stood at
£64,571 (down £45,135) after writing off
£”2,721 for depreciation (up £12,978)
and providing £69,320 for taxation (down
£22,963), which still appears to be quite
heavy in comparison with the disclosed
earnings. But the company’s provisions
for doubtful debts and for allowances in
the value of slow moving stocks were
not allowed as deductions by the Taxa-
tion Department.
This was equivalent to an earning
rate of 9.96 p.c. on the average ordinary
capital, after deducting the 10 p.c. pref.
divs (£4000), and is substantially lower
than the 17.4 p.c. earned in 1960, 30.4
p.c. in 1959, 39.9 p.c. in 1958 and 35.6
p.c. in 1957. Ordinary dividend rate was
lower at 1\ p.c., taking £45,587: —
Parent and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends N
Pref. To Re- Re-
Sept. Profit. 10 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
30 £ £ £ £ £
1959.. 9 4000 11J p.c.=41,841 71,388 831,997
Profit sale assets, £2434 .. .. 834,431
1960.-109,706 4000 10 p.c.=60,782 44,924 879,355
Asset revaluation, £165,225 . . 1,044,580
Increase capital reserve, £15,708 .. 1,060,288
Tax overprovided, £6285 . . . . 1,066,573
1961.. 64,571 4000 p.c.=45,587 14,984 1,081,557
Reserves benefited by £14,984 plus
£165,225 asset revaluation, £15,708
increase in capital reserve and £6285
write-back of an excess tax provision.
Consolidated reserves stood at £1,081,557
at balance date, free of intangibles.
During the year authorised capital was
increased by £1,000,000 to £2,040,000,
and the 20s. ordinary shares were sub-
divided into ss. ord. stock units. Creditors
were lower at £163,696 (down
£28,981):
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital 1959. 1960. 1961.
Pref £40,000 £40,000 £40,000
Ord 607,825 607,825 607,825
Reserves .. .. 831,997 879,355 1,081,557
Creditors, etc. .. 166,922 192,677 163,696
Tax provision .. 104,651 106,950 71,837
Pinal divs. .. 27,485 32,391 29,352
£1,778,880 £1,859,198 £1,994,267
Freeholds . . 700,309 704,712 856,411
Kilns, plant, etc. 348,924 455,306 450,314
Investments .. 8,063 2,911 2,911
Stock .. .. 360,514 347,995 356,991
Book-debts .. 282,459 297,811 263,918
Cash .. .. 78,611 50,463 63,722
£1,778,880 £1,859,198 £1,994,267
Freeholds and leaseholds rose by
£151,699 to £856,411, after the pottery
manufacturing sites in NSW. Queens-
land, Victoria and South Australia were
revalued. However the book value of
kilns, plant, machinery decreased by
£4992 to £450,314, as no new equipment


See the Olympic jumping at the
ROYAL
EASTER
SHOW
THE FAMILY SHOW
SYDNEY SHOWGROUND, 13th APRIL
w
TO 24th APRIL, 1962
Don’t miss seeing Australia's
world-champion horsemen. You’ll
thrill at the action-packed pro-
grammes arranged at this year’s
Royal Easter Show.
was installed during the year. Sundry
debtors were lower at £263,918 (down
£33,893).
The sanitaryware industry in Australia
seems to have developed a productive
capacity in excess of current demand.
The future of the company is connected
with recovery in the building industry
and the extension of sewerage projects
by State and municipal authorities. The
recent measures taken to stimulate the
economy may improve the situation.
But in the long run prospects should
be fair if population continues to grow
at the present rate of natural increase
and migration intake.
At the last sale in Sydney the ss. ords
changed hands at 11s. 6d. a unit. The im-
mediate yield is 3.3 p.c., on the basis of
the 7} p.c. dividend rate. The 20s. prefs
changed hands at 255. 6d., yielding 7.8
p.c. on the 10 p.c. div. rate.
Net tangible assets backing for the 20s.
prefs and ss. ords is £4l 2s. 2d. and
13s. 2d. respectively on the basis of con-
solidated figures.
DAVID JONES LTD
INTERIM DIVIDEND STEADY
TAavid Jones Ltd reports that turn-
over for the six months to January
31, 1962, was somewhat affected by pre-
vailing economic conditions.
The rebuilding of the Adelaide store
affected trading in South Australia. But
the company benefited from the new
Parramatta store and the T. C. Beirne
Ltd Brisbane store.
The overall result for the half-term
was “satisfactory.”
The usual interim divs are being main-
tained on pref. and employee stock. The
ord. div. is steady at 6| p.c. indicating the
12} p.c. rate held over the past three
years.
With its major business in Sydney,
David Jones probably had a harder
battle to maintain sales than its Mel-
bourne counterpart, The Myer Em-
porium Ltd.
Retail trade statistics suggest that
Sydney turnover since February, 1961,
was below that of the preceding
year. Melbourne trade has risen over
the same period.
In December, 1961, the latest month
for which statistics are available, the per-
centage changes in retail sales from the
same month in the preceding year
were :
Sydney Melbourne
Household piecegoods .. —lO —2
Dress piecegoods .. .. —l5
Women’s wear .. .. —7 —2
Men’s and boys’ wear .. —7 —4
Footwear .. .. .. —6 —1
Furniture and hardware .. —lO
Total .. .. , . —7 —2
RIO TINTO MINING
GOOD PROSPECTS AHEAD
'T’he Rio Tinto Mining Co. of Aust. Ltd
A increased consolidated net profit by
50.2 p.c.—a rise of £888,939 to £2,658,580
—to earn 73.6 p.c. on paid capital
(£3,610,000) in its first year as a public
co. —the 12 months to December 31 last.
This was after tax, £65,370 (up £37,514),
depreciation, £110,641 (up £46,756) and
interest charges, £183,139 (down £65,730),
and after writing off intangibles, etc.,
£362,283, deducting outside interests,
£2,723,440 (up £857,213), traced, in the
main, to Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd.
Divs, at 10 p.c., took £370,901.
Managing director, Mr J. H. Hohner,
said that drilling of co. leases 20 miles
north of Mt Isa indicated a geological
environment similar to that at Mt Isa.
Iron ore deposits in the Pilbara dis-
trict of WA have proved greater than
was first anticipated and ore bodies of
commercial importance “may well exist
in the area.”
At Penrith (NSW), the co.’s gravel
quarry was revealed as a much bigger
proposition. Plant capacity is to be
stepped up.
The co. has established itself in the
ready-mixed concrete and asphalt mar-
kets. A brickmaking plant is being con-
structed at Campbellfield (Vic.) with
initial capacity running to 25 million
bricks per annum ; ready expansion will
enable twofold capacity.
Output at the co.’s Burragorang Valley
coal mines, acquired in January, has
already been lifted from 650,000 tons
p.a., part way to a planned one million
tons p.a. —a new washing plant will be
installed shortly.
Rio Tinto’s coal mines at Lithgow
(NSW) are supplying 2000 tons of coal
a week to the Wallerawang power station.
Meantime, at 195., the Rio Tinto ss.
scrip looks a good buy. Implications of
the merger between the parent Rio Tinto
Co. Ltd and Consolidated Zinc Corpora-
tion Ltd are not raised but prospects
are rosy. Immediate yield on a 10 p.c.
basis is 2.6 p.c.


WALTER P. HAM & CO.
WALTER PERRY HAM and WILLIAM
JOHN BAKER
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
INVESTMENT HOUSE,
116 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
Telephone: 60-0231 (30 lines)
Telegrams: HAMWAL, Melbourne
&
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS, £893,311.
TANGIBLE ASSETS, £3,075,02*.
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
WITH RIGHT OF RECALL
ON 30 DAYS’ NOTICE
3 months . . . . 5V2% p .a.
6 months .... 6% p.a.
9 months .... 61/2% p.a.
12 months .... 7% p.a.
1 8 months .... 7V2% p.a.
• FIXED DEPOSITS
2 years 8% p.a.
3 years 8 V*2 % p.a.
AND OVER
APPLICATIONS must be made
on the form enclosed with the
prospectus, which is obtainable
from
Members of the Stock Exchange
ANY BRANCH OF A.N.Z. BANK
The Registered Office of the Com-
pany, William & Crown Sts.,
Sydney. Telephone FA 0322.
Financing world-
famous products
distributed by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies.
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
in Queensland
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
in Queensland
LISTER
Engines
GROUP SALES
YEAR ENDED
30-6-61
£12,857,865
MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 1/11/61, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
HDB2.(
B. 31/3
ONE TO BUY
A company closely connected with the
building and construction industry
which survived last year’s difficulties
without losing sales deserves some
respect. This was the performance of
Sydney plywood and veneer maker, Ralph
Symonds Ltd, in the year to June 30,
1961.
Sales were actually slightly in excess of
those for the previous year, but would
have been considerably higher were it
not for the credit restrictions brought
down in November, 1960. Absolute profit
increased for the eighth successive year,
from £153,521 to £160,808, but earnings
took a tumble from 22.6 to 14.7 per cent,
on ordinary capital. This was because
1.5 million ss. ordinary shares issued at
par to ordinary and preference share-
holders and to convertible noteholders
ranked fully for the first time in 1960-61,
as did shares issued to acquire Beale and
Co. Ltd, the piano maker.
The 12| per cent, dividend maintained
for six years had slim cover from the
latest profit, and the market has been a
bit wary of the stock. At present price
of around 11/-, after a run this calendar
year up to 14/8, the shares look good
buying, when one re-reads the chairman's
address given at the last annual meeting
in December. Directors said that the
Australian plywood business had always
been very competitive, and the company
was surmounting the present recession
without resort to price cutting. More-
over, the large press department and the
rotary veneer mill maintained full pro-
duction over the Christmas period, when
normally they closed down for three
weeks’ annual leave. Directors described
future prospects as “excellent.”
The co. is the biggest plywood manu-
facturer in the Southern Hemisphere, its
plywoods and veneers are distributed in
Scotland and South Africa through sub-
sidiaries, and an export business is being
fostered.
The business can best be described as
“wood engineering.” The timbers are
waterproofed, laminated, moulded and
metal-faced. They are used by the build-
ing industry and railway departments,
the furniture, electrical appliances, boat-
building and interior decorating trades.
The technical genius behind the co.
was Mr Ralph Symonds himself, who
died in January, 1961. The shares were
marked down as low as 8/4 following his
death. The co. raised £250,000 in 8 p.c.
red. cum. pref. shares during 1960-61, and
the £20,000 dividend liability on these
should not prove too arduous, if business
is running as smoothly as indicated. There
is also £lOO,OOO in 7 p.c. unsecured con-
vertible notes which convert to 400,000
ss. ordinary shares on June 30, 1962, but
these will not rank for div. until the next
financial year. With all signs in the
economic climate set “fair,' and plenty
of credit available to encourage building
generally, the 5/- shares of this co. de-
serve higher recognition We recommend
their purchase at present price of 11 / - to
yield 5.7 p.c. in immediate income.


AUSTRALIAN FACTORS LIMITED
ISSUE OF
5$
1 *
AFL
ooo'osnf
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
A FULLY SECURED INVESTMENT
Banker for the Company and the Issue:
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Trustees for Debenture Holders:
PERMANENT NOMINEES PTY. LTD.
Applications can be made only on the form attached to the Prospectus
HOW TO APPLY:
Lodge applications at
• Australian Factors Limited
126 Phillip Street, Sydney. 28-0951.
• Any Branch of the Bank of N.S.W.
N.S.W., A.C.T., Queensland and Victoria.
• Any member of a recognised
Stock Exchange.
• The office of the Underwriting Brokers.
PATRICK AND COMPANY
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
16 O'Connell Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Flinders House
Crown Street, Wollongong, N.S.W.
150 Queen Street, Melbourne, Victoria
AUSTRALIAN FACTORS LIMITED
AUSTRALIAN FACTORS LIMITED, B. 31/3/’62
126 Phillip Street, Sydney.
Please send me, without obligation, a copy of your Prospectus offering a 9% Registered
First Mortgage Debenture Stock.
Mr ./Mrs./Miss
Address
. 1 Phone
SPECULATOR'S DIARY
Monday, March 26
YS7ITH oil still flowing freely in O’Con-
nell Street, the sensible thing for a
peculator to do was to play along with
popular sentiment. I thought seriously
about taking my profit on my AOG
gambit, which worked surprisingly well,
out decided to wait for the report.
Meanwhile I let myself be lured into
1000 Exoil at 2s. 6d. regardless of the
fact that I’d scorned them at Is. in the
issue last month. Why, apart from stag
selling, should Exoil sell at half the price
of Planet or Beach? Just because there
are twice as many shares as in Planet
or because it doesn’t have any associa-
tion with CSR, which strikes me as pretty
nominal anyway?
Elsewhere in the market I took on a
couple of low-priced shares. Some of my
investing friends will look at nothing but
the low-priced shares on the grounds that
they are much more likely to show a good
percentage rise than are the shares in
the deluxe price range. Nevertheless it
was pure coincidence that I lit upon
Goodwins and Peter Lloyd.
Goodwins, the appliance retailer, is a
stock I used to follow before the slump
in television set sales began late in
1960. That slump brought Goodwins’
profit down with a bump last year and
the final dividend was only 3| p.c. com-
pared with the usual 6| p.c. Now direc-
tors have issued an interestingly brief
interim report for the current year
stating that sales were a record and that
profits were “satisfactory.” And the
dividend was 6} p.c. again, suggesting a
return to p.c. this year. On that basis
the yield was over 10 p.c. so I bought 800
at 5s 9d.
My reason for buying Peter Lloyd
was that it now has a Holden franchise
in the Randwick area. Peter Lloyd used
to handle Morris vehicles but with in-
different success and that franchise was
sold to York Motors last year. It will not
be able to take full advantage of its
Holden dealership until its new premises
at Randwick are finished in July. How-
ever if Peter Lloyd can in any way emu-
late the success of the ether Holden
dealers its shares should ultimately be
worth a lot more than ss. 6d.
To pay for these I sold, rather re-
luctantly, my Hunter Douglas shares
which I d bought at 265. in December.
Since then they have almost doubled in
price so I could hardly resist taking the
profit of £229.
SOLD
200 Hunter Douglas at 49/- .. £494
BOUGHT
800 Goodwins at 5/9 .. .. £239
500 Peter Lloyd at 5/6 . * £143
1,000 Exoil at 2/6 .. .. £129
These transactions left me with £3O
in cash but I’ll have to pay for my Mid-
Eastern shares this week. Shares held
now are:
„ , Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
300 Hornibrook 4/3/61 23/- 29/6
400 O’Donnell 7
Griffin 28/8/61 11/8 15/9
800 Southgate 6/11/61 8/6 8/6
1,000 United Motels 20/11/61 3/6 4/1
1,000 Harris Holdings 5/12/61 7/- g/6
200 Hunter Douglas
notes 21/2/62 36/- 43/-
200 Beau Monde 8/12/61 25/- 32/-
500 Fibre Con-
tainers 13/12/61 17/6 19/-
400 W. J. Manufac-
turing 24/1/62 11/9 12/6
400 Auto and General
Finance 8/2/62 19/9 23/9
300 Mauri Bros. 16/2/62 22/6 23/-
100 F. W. Williams 20/2/62 36/6 37/_
1,000 Mid-Eastern '
rights 22/2/62 _
200 Penfolds Wines 2/3/62 9/3
400 Anderson Meat 2/3/62 12/- 14/6
100 8.11. P. 8/3/62 64/6 04/6
400 Kandos 9/3/62 21/- 99/_
50 A.O.G. 14/3/62 118/- 91/-
25 A.O.G. rights 76/-
500 Peters 15/3/62 8/2 8/8
100 Philip Morris 16/3/62 26/- 26/-
800 Goodwins 21/3/62 5/9 5/9
500 Peter Lloyd 21/3/62 5/6 5/0
1,000 Exoil 22/3/62 2/6 2/11


THE MAN
ON THE
LAND
WOOL
WOOL INQUIRY REPORT
By M. H. ELLIS
Tn the present divided condition of the
wool producers, it is not surprising
that there is disappointment among a very
large section of growers and organisations
at the report of the Commonwealth Wool
Inquiry Committee.
The politics of the wool industry are
just as heated as any other kind of politics.
And it was in response to pressures, argu-
ments and counter-arguments that the
Commonwealth Government on lanuary
25, 1961, appointed the Wool Marketing
Committee of Inquiry, comprising Mr
Justice Roslyn Philp, a Queensland puisne
judge, who was one of the Commissioners
in the Petrov Commission; Mr M. C.
Buttfield, recently retired from the
general managership of the AMP and
Mr D. H. Merry, chief economist of the
ANZ Bank.
It was noted pessimistically in the wool
industry that none of these had any ex-
perience of wool marketing, or even of
wool, but this position had its merits in
that two of the members were men of
great commercial and financial ex-
perience, the president a judge ex-
perienced in weighing evidence, and all
able to take a detached view.
They were charged to “inquire into
the present system of marketing and of
promoting the sale of Australian wool
clip and matters relating thereto,” and
to report on “the efficacy of these sys-
tems (of disposal) and upon the merits
of other systems, or modifications of the
present systems, which may be advocated
or which the committee itself considers
would be of long term benefit to the
woolgrowing industry, and in the best
interests of the nation.”
nPHE Committee spent over a year in
close inquiry, ten weeks of it abroad
visiting the chief textiles centres of the
world, to produce a report. Most of the
disappointment and criticism of that re-
port has been generated by the fact that,
while the commissioners have been ready
enough to criticise and reject much ad-
vertised specifics and alleged checks on
prices such as the organisation of a
floor price, they have sought to focus
attention on what they consider the vital
need of the market : that all the diver-
gent groups, who think they know how
to sell wool and save the industry and
the country, should give way _o one
central, fully authorised body—with the
industry and Ce Government behind
it —which would establish a businesslike
selling plan on the advice of experts,
and be free to carry it out with the
backing of the whole industry.
The Committee says that all Federal
woolgrower organisations have concurred
in its view that this is the primary need :
to remedy the lack of “a central organisa-
tion charged with the duty of watching
over the diverse interests of growers, fully
informed of the real facts, and capable
of forming competent impartial opinion.”
It suggests that the ideal content of
this central body, to be called a Wool
Commission, would be eight know-
ledgeable persons, free of the politics of
the industry and fortified by the advice
of three divisions dealing with research,
promotion and marketing who would
make recommendations to the Commis-
sion. How the Commission would do
its work, or what its policy must be, the
Committee does not attempt to dic-
tate, since it holds the view that unity
of organisation will produce t ehnical
examination of marketing methods and
more responsible decisions than non-
technical advisers could make at this
stage.
It points out the defects in the present
system of “co-ordination” (or non-co-or-
dination), which is in three sets of hands,
and is largely governed by the varying
views of different groups.
The Wool Research Committee con-
trols a separate fund for technical re-
search. The Wool Bureau controls
another fund for promotion in Aus-
tralia. But control of promotion of sales
abroad is delegated to the International
Wool Growers’ and Graziers’ Council
exists between the three bodies depends
“solely on the fact that they have some
common ihembers,” There is no body
with power to determine in what pro-
portions grower funds shall be devoted
to research and promotion and there is
no body charged with the co-ordination
of research and promotion in Australia
with similar operations abroad.
In other words, the industry seems to
be like a company operated solely by
departmental heads, each with his own
allotment of funds but without the ad-
vantage of a board of directors and a
general manager.
TThe Committee's report deals exhaus-
tively with most features of the raw
wool trade competition, pies, of which
it says that the effect is not great, and
private treaty selling which absorbs
about 20 p.c. of Western Australian wooi
and which could, if the system were to
grow materially, affect adversely competi-
tion and prices at auction. Its analysing
spotlight falls chiefly on expedients for
controlling prices by artificial means, on
all of which it looks askance.
The main suggestions put forward have
been (a) the establishment of a reserve
floor price, strongly advocated by the
Australian Wool and Meat Producers
Organisation, which mainly consists of
smaller sheep and mutton and lamb pro-
ducers and is opposed by the Australian
Wool Growers and Graziers’ Council
which represents more particularly the
larger graziers and the merino industry,
though there are' large numbers of
growers who have a common member-
ship in both associations (b) a wool
acquisition scheme and (c) an equalisa-
tion or pooling scheme. The Committee
does not think any of these have
sufficient attractions to warrant their
displacing the auction system existing
at present.
At the same time, it admits that there
are several means by which the auction
system could be improved ; but it thinks
they should be dealt with by those with
the power to implement them—in fact,
by the recommended Wool Commission.
It concedes that such forces as the
growth of forward selling and develop-
ment of pies and other factors, if
unchecked, could have a serious effect
on wool prices and produce conditions
calling for some different method of
marketing raw wool in the future.
Accordingly it recommends that “the
wool industry, through the Wool Com-
mission proposed by us, should place
itself in a position to move to some
appropriate system of marketing its
product, if and when this move appears
desirable.”
Cor the present, however, the facts about
L the reserve floor price proposal,
the only one submitted by any Federal
woolgrowers’ organisation, were that it
could not secure for the whole industry
over the years a higher price than was


BASE:
1952/52
=
ICR
, Wholesale Price —
Government
-Consumer Price—,
Index (a)
Import
Export
Security
Share
Index
Goods Prinei-
Price Index
Price Index
Price Index
Price Index
Total
pally Home
Total
(b)
(c)
(d)
Compiled
by
1958/59
Food
All Groups
Produced All Groups
Sydney Stock
115
116 198
>
105
106
68
96
163
1959/60
120
119
114
109
107
76
96
221
1960, 6!
128
124
119
113
109
70
93
219
(e)
(*)
1959/60
November
110
106
107
76
96
216
December
118
118
111
107
1:07
78
96
219
January
113
108
107
79
96
234
February
112
108
107
75
96'
234
March
129
119
114
109
107
75
96
227
April
117
111
107
76
96
231
May
118
112
108
74
96
236
June
1960/61
123
121
123
116
108
74
96
240
July
124
116
108
72
95
242
August
124
116
107
69
96
244
September
126
123
123
116
108
69
95
245
October
121
111
109
69
95
231
November
118
112
198
7®
93
207
December
127
123
117
111
108
69
92
197
January
116
110
109
68
92
202
February
117
111
109
7®
91
205
March
129
124
118
112
109
70
92
206
April
119
113
109
73
92
212
May
118
111
109
73
92
216
June
1961/62
129
125
117
111
109
72
92
222
July
114
109
109
72
92
219
August
112
107
109
72
9-2
216
September
128
125
111
106
109
71
92
214
October
108
104
109s
7®
94
213
November
107s
103s
109s
69s
95
213
December
125
124
198 s
104s
109s
7 0s
95
211
January
n.a.
n.a.
n.a.
n.a-
96
218
(a) Wholesale Price
(Basic
Materials and Foodstuffs) Index.
(b) Index of lo.te.
price of g'oods leaving
country of origin in
period
shown.
(c) Since July, 1959, net
price of
current yield
of a theoretical 15-year
bond whose price on
1952/53 average long-term bond vields
i : s
100. Income from bonds is subject to current
Federal taxation
less
a rebate of 2s.
in the pound.
(d) Shares
of companies listed on
Sydney Stock Exchange.
Source: Reserve
(e) Quarter ended.
Bank
: of Australia.
Australian Wool Bureau
V . T . 4- »» , l; A 1/-, / ,«
Quality
Opening
Closing
Classification
Week
Week
Week
Week
Week
/ Centres Selling Week —
Bradford
Ended
Ended
1961-62
1960-61
Ended
Ended. 23/3/62
Standard
•28/3/62
Change
16/3/62
7/7/61
30/6/61
24/3/61
Svdney
Adelaide
Albany
Combing —
70’s good
126
+ 1
125
122*
125*
115
126
Average . .
122
+ 3
119
117
120
110
123
—
64 A good . .
120
+ 3
117
114*
117*
107
119
121
Average . .
116
+ 3
113
109
112
106
116
—
117
60 J s good . .
106
+ 1
105
104
108*
101
—
106
107
Average . .
104
+ 1
103
101
104
100
103
104
104
58”s good
96
+ 1
95
97
101*
94
—
95
97
Average ..
94
+ 2
92
95
98
93
92
94
95
56’s good
92
+ 1
91
95*
97*
91
—
92
93
Average . .
90
+ 1
89
92*
94
90
88
90
91
50’s good
84
par
84
92*
93*
87
—
85
84
Average , .
81
par
81
90*
91*
86
82
83
80
Carding —
Merino
50
— 3
53
49
48
55
50
51
49
Comeback . .
48-
— 2
§&
49
48
53
48
48
46
F. Crossbred .
47
— 3
50*
51*
51
55
47
47
M. Crossbred
49
—2
51*
52*
52
57
49
—
48
*■ Nominal.
Sales next
week : Brisbane, Melbourne.
obtained at auction ; and, that, in any
event, a capital fund of £ 100 m.—possibly
half of it provided by the growers—would
be required to support even a conserva-
tive floor price plan. A radical scheme of
which the aim would be an economic
price near to the expected average price
would call for capital “substantially
greater than £l5O million” and, no
matter how financed, would still be of
only speculative value.
The Committee thinks that it certainly
could not be operated to give growers
a price equal to or based on cost of
production. It could produce higher
prices only on a short term basis, since
supply and demand in the world market
would inevitably bring values to their
natural competitive levels in the end.
Moreover, reserve price plans are
naturally, it points out, opposed by wool-
buyers who dislike having a large stock-
pile of wool hanging over them. The only
plan which seemed to show promise in
the Committee’s view was that for a
system of central appraisement and sale
of wool at auction, and it suggested that
the Wool Commission should make a
full and early investigation of that
method.
Generally, the comments of the Com-
mittee make sense, especially when
directed to such matters as the need to
push to secure a larger proportion of
the blending market, the welding of
research and promotion, the need for
standards and uniformity of classing,
better bulk classing, scientific testing for
yield, and the introduction of district
classing, and numerous factors such as
lot-splitting, jute contamination and bale
sizes which affect the sale of wool.
Both the Chairman of the Australian
Wool Bureau, Sir William Gunn, and
the President of the Australian Wool
Growers and Graziers’ Council, Mr
T. M. Scott, have approved, in broad
principle, and the former in some detail,
the Committee’s proposal for the
amalgamation of existing bodies into a
central Wool Commission.
But at the same time, there is a lot of
open, and even more latent, opposition
to the report on the selling methods.
Some of this opposition is bound to be
dissipated when the 270-page report is
more fully studied, but it will still not
be easy to secure a method of electing
a Wool Commission and its advisory
divisions which will divest them of the
influence of “wool politics.”
Already some of the leaders of
Queensland graziers’ organisations,
notably Mr C. D. Leake, President of the
Central and Northern Queensland
Graziers’ Association, have inveighed
against the idea of the commission
because it would lead to “too much
power being channelled into the hands
of one authority.”
'T'he Committee of Inquiry, of course,
-*■ was authorised to deal with only one
aspect of the wool industry’s troubles and
not the basic one, which centres upon
the costs of land, labor, materials, pro-
duction generally and taxation and
transport charges. Their rise in pro-
portion to world wool prices is the main
threat to the existence of thousands of
small producers.
Australian wool selling has not done
so badly in the face of increasing com-
petition of new artificials over the past
decade. The greasy wool sold at auction
in the year ended June 30, 1953 totalled
1125 m. pounds. In the year ended
June 30 last the amount was 1436 m.
pounds.
The industry can probably do better
by concentrating on promotion in the
blending field as suggested by the Com-
mittee of Inquiry and by bolstering wool
returns through subsidiary farming.
It seems that while campaigns for
promotion are highly important, the
reduction of cost per pound of wool
produced is equally or more important
to the stabilisation and development of
the industry, and its expansion in an
increasingly competitive world.
PRICE INDICES
WEEKLY AVERAGE CLEAN WOOL PRICES


REVIEWS
ADELAIDE ART FESTIVAL
MEDITERRANEAN GAIETY TAKES OVER
By GEOFFREY DUTTON
TThere is no doubt of the success of
A Adelaide’s 1962 Festival of Arts.
The spectacle's and exhibitions and pro-
ductions and concerts would daze the
daylights and the stars out of anyone
who attempted to catch up with them
all. Some are phenomenally good and
some are a little comical, but the essence
of the thing is that everyone and every-
thing is in it. For once the city, which
like all Australian cities is a place to
work in, but not to live in or play in,
has come alive with people, and Adelaide
with its wide streets and squares has
always had the air of sadly waiting for
a Mediterranean gaiety to take it over.
This happened, quite startlingly, on the
opening night of Saturday 17th, when
the Governor-General declared the Fes-
tival open, after which there was a
torchlight procession through the streets.
Temporary stands in front of the Town
Hall were packed with the gentry in their
tails and orders, the ladies carrying the
maximum cargo of rocks and metal,
while across the road and all down King
William Street the lesser populace
crowded the barriers. The Rolls-Royces
and the Daimlers swished in and de-
posited their Vice-Regal passengers (al-
though Mr Menzies’s Buick sneaked in
bang in the middle of God Save the
Queen and had to dump the Prime
Minister surreptitiously round the cor-
ner). Lord De L’lsle battled on through
the customary cliches about the value of
culture and the generosity of business
firms, when suddenly there were loud
shouts from a mob of drunks across the
street of “Why dontyer speak up, mate?”
and less polite suggestions. A well-known
lady journalist alongside the melee pre-
pared to take shelter in the ABC Tele-
vision wagon, while the technicians
looked anxiously at their wires and lights.
It all fizzled out quietly with the arrival
of a few police, and the Governor-
General, who had never faltered, went
on, with only the usual swarm of photog-
raphers buzzing like horseflies around the
majestic rumps of the grey charges of
the Mounted Police. After the speeches
came the procession and the floats, every-
one from the Red Cross to the marching
girls, everything from tableaux of ex-
plorers to a choir in church (sponsored
by the SA Brewing Company) singing
not drinking songs but real hymns. Every
section of the population seemed to have
its representatives marching, Greeks, Lat-
vians, suburban basketball teams, march-
ing girls, and more marching girls,
wee Scots laddies and all the rest.
There was one glaring exception,
noticed at least by Russell Drysdale from
the stand by the Town Hall who re-
marked to his neighbor “Where are
the colored people?” True, the Adelaide
Festival of Arts is for all Australians
and all New Australians, but not for
Old Australians. About the only reference
to the aborigines was a crude float
advertising a paint company.
'T'hen, when all the floats and bands and
A marching groups had gone by, the
most impressive spectacle of the whole
Festival suddenly burst into view in the
shape of tens of thousands of people
surging out of Victoria Square, in the
huge spaces of which they seemed to be
boiling, down King William Street. The
gentry on the platforms gathered their
tail coats round them; it really looked
as it must have to Louis Seize at the fall
of the Bastille. But this crowd wanted no
one’s head, not even Sir Thomas Play-
ford’s.
After the official opening the concerts
and plays got under way at the special
late hour of 9 p.m., the London Phil-
harmonic Orchestra under Sir Malcom
Sargent at the drab and bone-cracking
Centennial Hall at Wayville Show-
grounds; “J. 8.” at the University Union
Hall; and “Saint Joan” at the Bonython
Hall, and assorted twisters, jazz bands
and “fringe” theatre productions all round
the town. The vast crowd mostly kept
on going right down King William Street
to the Festival Fair in Elder Park on the
banks of the Torrens.
Two major exhibitions had already
been opened by the Prime Minister on
Saturday. At the National Gallery there
were actually seven exhibitions in one :
the superlative (despite omissions)
Commonwealth Art Exhibition, which has
been assembled in Adelaide before going
on to the Tate Gallery in London and
to Canada; a pre-Raphaelite collection; a
selection from the dreary Archibald
Prize efforts; collections of Russian con-
temporary prints, primitive masks (most
exciting), contemporary religious art and
French prints. At the Public Library
lecture room the exhibition is of early
Australian prints, paintings, books and
manuscripts from the Nan Kivell collec-
tion in the National Library, Canberra.
As the Prime Minister rightly pointed
out, this superb collection should be
of extraordinary significance to all Aus-
tralians, for it is our history come alive.
The arguments that are already rag-
ing about the choice and representation
of contemporary painters in the Com-
monwealth Art Exhibition for in-
stance, Dobell is appallingly badly shown,
and several important painters are not
there at all cannot affect either the
importance of the exhibition as a whole
or the magnificence of the Colonial and
Impressionist paintings. Here, for the
first time all together, one can see how
our early artists conquered and won this
country by, in Patrick White’s words,
“right of vision.” John Glover, a fascina-
ted stranger; S. T. Gill, instinctively at
home; Conrad Martens, lost in another
light; Wainewright, poisoner or no, deli-
cately stepping amongst the ladies and
gentlemen. Then, after the gentle reveries
of Buvelot, the Australian light and land-
scape and human physiognomy are sud-
denly all unmistakably there under the
hands of Tom Roberts, Fred McCubbin,
Streeton and Conder. It is a joy to see
brought together the painters from whom
nearly all of our best contemporary
artists drew their confidence, their convic-
tion that Australian art really does exist.
Amongst the drama offerings, Archi-
bald MacLeish’s “J. 8.” is at least a new
play; (the other official plays are “Saint
Joan” and “Volpone”). It is extremely
well produced by New Zealander Richard
Campion, mostly well acted by a large
cast, and the stage design and sets are
brilliant, further establishing Stan Os-


toja-Kotkowski’s reputation for skill and
imagination. Yet the comment of many
people has been “To think that they turfed
out “The Ham Funeral” for this!” (Any
Governors of the' Festival in the audience
must have quivered as several very
naughty words, much naughtier than any-
thing in “The Ham Funeral,” were said
loud and clear.) It is a heavy and pre-
tentious play whose message comes across
in a loud-speaker blare and whose sym-
bolism is belted home with a sledge-
hammer. In a bad production the
audience would stir and groan; this one
is so good that it keeps their attention
through many an absurdity. The play’s
weakness and strength is that it has a
noble theme modern man as a Job
beaten to his knees and asking God
“Why? Why me?” Yet the theme has
too obviously provided the play, not any
inherent dramatic vitality. Add to this
the full bag of modern theatre tricks, all
the post-Brecht breaks in illusion, and
it becomes more of an intellectual ex-
ercise than a dramatic experience to
respond to J.B.’s loss of children and
property, or to the commentaries of play-
God and play-Devil (both extremely well
acted by Rod Douglas and Alexander
Hay.) Those children, for instance; it is
like watching an expert marksman knock
off tin ducks at a sideshow. After the
first two or three you know the rest
will go. And poor Mrs J.B. has to steam
up the requisite agony each time, under
the eye of Nickless and Mr Zuss; Marie
Tomasetti did remarkably well. Frank
Waters as J.B. was a toothy Rotary
Chairman and Leader of the Local
Church Building Appeal; they were other
people’s worries, not his own, no matter
how much he beat his breast. The verse
itself had its moments, skilfully aided by
Mr Campion’s re-editing of the play, but
its general lack of distinction was made
lamentably obvious by regular interrup-
tions in A Distant Voice of the magnifi-
cent language of the Authorised Version
of the Book of Job. The children and the
chorus of old women were, in the re-
quisite ways, very effective.
ART
CANONISE DRYSDALE
Colonial to Contemporary. State
Gallery.
Kym Bonython Collection. Bonython
Gallery.
Contemporary Art Society of Aus-
tralia. Charles Birks’ Gallery.
Royal SA Art Society. All in Adelaide.
Tn these weeks in Adelaide thousands of
A people who often intend to visit art
galleries but seldom really get around to
it are being swept into fine representative
exhibitions of modern Australian art.
Hundreds who seriously suspected that
contemporary art was something of a
hoax have seen that at its acknowledged
best it certainly is not; that in the end
the sieve of taste lets through a refined
and wonderful visual product. No one
person can discover anything absolute or
ultimate about art, any more than he
can about science. Both are a con-
glomeration of the opinions of experi-
enced human beings, but sometimes one
feels that the methods for sifting science
are better than those for sifting art. The
Festival exhibitions show that this is not
so. Science, being literary, is endlessly
reproducible. Art objects are single and
difficult to get together, but when you
have an opportunity for wide assemblage,
then experienced people can sift accord-
ing to their opinions and sift effectively.
The contemporary part of the
Colonial-to-Contemporary exhibition in
the admirable new extension to the State
Gallery contains 120 of our moderns.
Not one of them fails to measure up to
your reviewer’s mysterious inner rules
for recognising a work of art. All the
names are here: Blackman, Boyd, Brack,
Cant, Coburn, Daws, de Maistre, Dicker-
son, Dobell, Drysdale, Fairweather,
French, Gleeson, Gleghorn, Herman,
Hodgkinson, James, Juniper, Kemp,
Lewers, Miller, Molvig, Nolan, Olsen,
Passmore, Plate, Perceval, Pugh, Rees,
Sibley, Sime, Smith, Grey-Smith, Tucker,
Wakelin, Whitely. In spite of how
fashionable Nolan, Tucker or Dobell
may be in other places, Drysdale, seen
with the others, towers over the lot. By
comparison with him some of the minor
painters are gimmicky. He can fairly
be compared with the great Dutch
masters. In the Colonial section of the
exhibition one can see how it took 100
years before anyone had a right look at
a gum-tree. It has similarly taken 200
years for someone to have a straight view
of an Australian, and the genius is Drys-
dale. Canonise him before the others
do. The exhibition leaves soon for the
Tate.
Kym Bonython’s choices from his own
collection amount to an extension of
this exhibition. The paintings he has
hung are superb choices. The introduc-
tion to his catalogue shows what uncanny
judgment he has of the way tastes will
move: “The Sidney Nolan ‘Burke and
Wills Leaving Melbourne’ was purchased
while Nolan was still struggling for
recognition even in his own country.
The Arthur Boyd ‘Wimmera’ is from
the series that first established him as
one of Australia’s leading landscape
painters. The Drysdale ‘Drover’s Wife’
has associations that revive the contro-
versies of the late ’forties and early
’fifties.”
The exhibition of the Contemporary
Art Society of Australia in Charles
Birks’ store is overshadowed by these
collections, but contains many excellent
recent pieces, and one can see what an
important part this society has played in
promoting the modern art movement in
Australia. The Royal SA Society of
Arts has an exhibition which is a muddle
of semi-colonial and contemporary. It
does not come up to the standards of
arrangement, selection or purpose set by
the others. Even with two lovely Drys-
dales, one can’t let them off; some pro-
fessionalism is required. If the organisers
drop down to the State Gallery or pop
over to Charles Birks’ they will find out
what is going on.
EARLE HACKETT
FLOATING AMONG THE ELEMENTS
Paintings, Drawings and Gouaches.
Eastside Gallery. Melbourne.
HThe three young artists exhibiting at
A the Eastside Gallery—Robin Archer,
Graeme Cohen and Winston Thomas—
have put together a fresh and attractive
show. It is work which is clear in
purpose, and assured in execution. Much
of the freshness is due to their fine sense
of color and their delightful treatment
of fantasy themes. Some illustrations
from “Alice in Wonderland” by Robin
Archer are very fine indeed. For the rest,
the most immediately striking works are
Graeme Cohen’s warmly colored tempera
landscapes and Winston Thomas’s bright
flower studies.
It would not be surprising to see all of
these three young artists establish them-
selves securely, although as yet none
seems to have found an idea which marks
him out from the many talented decora-
tive painters around. For a start, the
figure drawings reveal a clear insight into
character and a restrained, economical
style and, as colorists, all seem confident,
They have, too, an intelligent approach
to abstraction in painting. Cohen, for
instance, constructs from within the
subject, building his design through color
and mass rather than imposing it on his
subject. Robin Archer has attempted
more ambitious themes than the other
two, and though there is a certain obvious


pretension to the symbolic, the theme of
men floating about in the elements,
represented by a few simple shapes on
a bright plain background, may have
possibilities. At least their interest in
people as they appear, and their willing-
ness to treat them with some lightness and
warmth, makes these three painters worth
watching.
BILL HANNAN
CANE COUNTRY
Arthur Evan Read. Johnstone Gallery.
Brisbane.
A Rthur Evan Read, Wynne Prize and
Richards Prize winner, is a Mel-
bourne expatriate who lived in North
Queensland around Innisfail for many
years and became saturated with the
special atmosphere of the lush wet
country. He has been a very successful
representational painter of the tropical
North, and, technically, one of Aus-
tralia’s best ; what he sets out to do
he always does very well. He has
secured the authentic note of the cane-
fields, the rich orange-red of the soil
and the brilliantly fresh, cool green of
the young cane ; something which has
to be seen, and, once seen, is unfor-
gettable. A plane trip over this
country from Cairns to Townsville on
an early summer morning is an experi-
ence unequalled anywhere in Australia,
or anywhere else, for that matter.
Arthur paints it with love and affection ;
he never tires of it, and he can com-
municate that to the spectator. What
makes the charm is that he catches his
scene under some special sky, which is
a thing of infinite variety in latitudes
where storms and rain come up so
quickly.
In all the oils, half the 30 works shown,
there is a sky of considerable interest.
And he paints the landscape as some-
thing lived in ; he is fond of very large
canvases, which give a broad view of
community life in the villages of the
cane country. “The Oldest Street” is in
such a place where women in light,
cotton frocks, bareheaded untfer
umbrellas which keep off both sun and
rain, gossip eternally. “Tully Mill at
Night” is imposing ; a white mass of mill
set in dark-green bush under artificial
light which illuminates broad patches
of yellowish green, sharply outlined
against the dark masses of foliage. All
the rest of the exhibits are about the life
of the white man in the tropics, his
simple dwellings, the local pubs, the fish-
ing boats, the canefields, a kind of life
so different in color and texture from
the dark south, done in a sound painterly
way that conveys its own joy and satis-
faction.
J. V. DUHIG
THEATRE
SPANISH GOLD
Luisillo’s Spanish Dance Theatre.
Comedy Theatre. Melbourne.
C'omething like a third of Luisillo’s
programme is pure gold—so good
that one would have to be entirely blase
to be left undelighted by it. What of the
other two-thirds or so? It is not dull, but
it is limited. Much of it serves to demon-
strate the point that a deliberate narrow-
ing of expressive means ultimately
narrows expressive range. The piece
called “Sanlucar de Barrameda”, for
example, seems to be designed to illus-
Irate the various moods and styles
accessible in the “hard-shoe” tradition.
But for minutes at a time only the
dancers’ feet and fingers are moving, and
one is conscious, almost exclusively, of
the sounds they are making. What is
achieved is simply an elaboration of the
music, not an incarnation of its spirit,
and it is wasteful to use the human body
in this way—as though it were primarily a
means of producing percussive sounds.
In “Giants and Big Heads”, and much
of “Calle Sevillana” the limitation is of
Feiffer
himz wlsmh'r
res me ikVz
AM'
m two j
a m eom i C
more '5 pen mam
rw- ~ <C
* srap
r
KUIULUUf fit fit
pif'fy p/r-y/ w waeu?
/S f(j£l Of oeUMUF pity'
MTO ITS F>eCf
SCAUS6 [ ty If MHO ncfe
bO% /W out TMRf ' /
kw >
ommwmv or ar
ai'tY cit'i! all mo
m is washhhhhmp
FMIOOr M)V MUCH VMM
fA UllT AU OVft M
on m cfyl wu see*
iftfyHOU 6o.M hU SOMETH.
ifif)osuooT r lsdoor
TH6fJ k)HAT'S IT Mi mW
A VMliSHijp pOfT nJirPour
pm CoMUifATion)
16 tiO exAMPIf Of
6zif -
wmp Hi
Qtfott WU Vtcipo
10 m m
fM M A fAMI At OM
iM I V° ft YOUR MM
fH6M MCM Ml OMUF6
Meets a Piem'R
you
lAV't
i om me its
BgpJ AS Ml£tf fuu
FOR W AS its
» F’M5 '
\sny ’ r *f


a different kind. These are very lively
pieces, not markedly different in nature
from standard ballets like “Graduation
Ball” and “Pineapple Poll”, but lacking
something of the fluidity and variety of
these. Too many people simply stand
around, the leapers do not leap high
enough, the gaiety is corseted.
These are criticisms of style, not of
execution, which is consistently of a
very high order. And when the style
meets the subject for which it was pre-
sumably created —the celebration of male
and female attractiveness and pride —then
there is splendor indeed. The women
strut like magnificent birds, the men are
as arrogant and peremptory as a sword.
Luisillo himself achieves elemental
stature, and, at the end of “Calle
Sevillana”, Conchita Anton is a superb
partner and antagonist. Here is a real
incarnation of the music—passionate and
vibrant music from guitars, voices and
rhythmic hands. There are several
moments like this scattered throughout
the evening, and many others only slightly
less splendid. No-one with any interest
in theatre or life should risk missing
them.
JAMES MURPHY
A FAVORITE UNCLE
Victor Borge. Her Majesty’s. Sydney.
Nina. Palace. Sydney.
Tf Danny Kaye is everybody’s father
—the archetypal Pop who could do
everything superbly well Victor Borge
is everybody's favorite uncle : a growling
bear on the surface, but eager to show
his tricks. His tricks are many, and his
famous specialties such as Inflationary
Language, and Phonetic Punctuation
are brilliantly practised and enormously
funny.
Yet it's the warmth of Borge that
stays. He gives more than Kaye : he de-
mands admiration far less, he contrives
to make his audience feel wanted, and
perhaps it's this pretty nice feeling of
self-importance, after all, that makes
you deliver yourself without reserve into
the hands of this comic master.
“Nina” is an average example of the
expense-account naughty-type farce that
often goes well in the US. Whether it’s
quite well enough done for the tough
temper of Sydney is doubtful. There
is a certain homeliness about the setting
(bad bulges and cracked paint on some
flats as well) that does not quite give the
professional gloss needed for this sort of
thing. If it has any justification at all,
“Nina” would be justified by remarkably
skilled direction and performance. It
doesn't have these. American actor
Edward Everett Horton does well
enough, but manages uncomfortably to
remind one of his age. One feels, ines-
capably, that the dear old man ought to
be at home in front of the TV set. The
rest of the cast give the feeling that they
would like to be home in front of the
TV set which is not quite the way to
earn hay in Sydney.
KEVON KEMP
FILMS
OTHER VICES, OTHER TOMBS
The Innocents. Century. Sydney.
TTenry James claimed “The Turn of
the Screw’’ was merely a psycho-
logical thriller and disowned those who
saw more in it than he had intended.
The story is the first person chronicle
of what befell the youngest of three
daughters of a poor country parson in
Hampshire sometime in the ’fifties or
’sixties of the last century. She is hired
as a governess by a wealthy, selfish Lon-
don bachelor of middle age for his young
nephew and niece, Miles and Flora,
orphaned by the death of their father in
India. He asks her to look after them at
his Essex estate of Bly and take them off
his hands.
It is only after she has been at Bly a
little while that she realises that the place
is haunted by the ghosts of Peter Quint
—the former bailiff, who had died
violently—and Miss Jessel. the former
governess who died of a broken heart
after an ill-fated affair with Quint. Later
still she comes to the conclusion that
the two ghosts are utterly evil and deter-
mined to possess the two children, the
innocents. She also believes that the
children are corrupt, their enchanting
innocence a fa?ade for their efforts to
commune with the two spirits. She tells
her story with disarming candor: she is
reasonable, understanding, lacking in
hysteria.
As the book has it, Flora has a nervous
breakdown after being forced by the
governess to look upon the apparition
of Miss Jessel which Flora cannot see
and is packed off to London. Miles dies
when the governess forces him to face
the final apparition of Quint, whom he
cannot see. He dies in terror or because
Quint has taken possession of him. The
governess’ story is incomplete. The
reader never knows. The whole macabre
chronicle, the apparitions, the children’s
apparent innocence and suspected
corruption may have been a vast projec-
tion of her own. She may have been
quite mad. The Freudians have had a
field day attributing to James a master
study in sexual repression, and that is
the heavily labored interpretation offered
in Jack Clayton’s production of “The
Innocents.” Deborah Kerr’s governess
looks 40 rather than the given age of 20
in the novel. She is tense and hysterical.
She reveals early an infatuation with the
uncle (Michael Redgrave), whom she
only sees once, and an intense, prying
curiosity into the illicit relationship be-
tween Quint and Miss Jessel relayed to
her by Mrs Grose (Megs Jenkins). To
overcome deficiencies in the novel as a
screen play Truman Capote (“Other
Voices, Other Rooms”) has rewritten
the script.
Capote's governess becomes madder
and madder: she hears Quint and Miss
Jessel laughing in various rooms through-
out the immense home (“Miss, they did
things by broad daylight that were better
done in the woods at night. And the
children watched.”) Where the particular
quality of horror in the novel was refined
and intensified by the fact that the reader
can never know whether the governess is
mad or not, whether the events she tells
of so matter-of-factly actually happened
or were hallucinations, the film piles it
on thick —doors creak ominously, win-
dows bang, voices sing, mad laughter
resounds. The main events of the novel
took place in summer. In the film it is
some indeterminate period of the year
and unusually wet. In one scene the
rain falls in sheets on three huge palm-
trees, which are such a noted feature of
tropical England. Yet here and there
intelligent direction achieves effect, as
when the governess watches a cockroach
crawl out of the mouth of a piece of
fallen statuary and looks up aghast to
see the figure of Quint standing on the
tower.
Truman Capote’s goings on at Biy
eventually resemble mid-Victorian Eng-
land less and less and something nasty
behind a Carolina woodshed more and
more. In the final climactic scene Capote
beats Henry James insensible. Deter-
mined to win Miles from Quint, the
governess tries to force the child into
revealing his evil relationship with Quint.
The boy replies that there is no such
relationship, that there never has been
and that both he and his sister have
known from the start what sort of
woman she was anyway: “You’re noth-
ing but a damn’ dirty-minded bitch.”
This version is a well-acted standard
horror piece but judged as an adapta-
tion it is vulgar and disastrous.
PETER HASTINGS


* The Great Bust. The Depression of
the ’Thirties. J. T. Lang. Angus
and Robertson. 38s. 6d.
BTI A|ytf£
w< BiMniVl
THE
m S m «btti
GREAT
BUST
THE DEPRESSION
OF THE THIRTIES
* The Great Crash, 1929. J. K. Gal-
braith. Pelican Book. ss. 6d.
THE RED PAGE
VOLUPTUARY IN HATRED
By LLOYD ROSS
Down at the Stock Exchange
In the middle of the city
Sits the old stockbroker
And the sitting’s mighty pretty
A big white Jag of Vaucluse went
A Palm Beach house as well
You and / could do the same
If we could buy and sell.
Co runs a political song used in the
recent New South Wales elections
by the successful Labor candidate Tom
Morey. It could well have been written
for the publication of the second volume
of J. T. Lang’s memoirs,* for it evokes
something of the cruel drama of the
depression years.
In this new volume Lang gives his
interpretation of his actions during the
depression. Not writing history, not
seeking the basic causes of Australia’s
economic difficulties, not even pretending
to be objective, Lang sees only the per-
sonal actions of individuals in the eco-
nomic crisis—the most ignoble is the
most likely motive, for it is the more
relevant to his conspiratorial conception
of history.
There is here a wealth of material for
the historian of the period, provided that
every statement is examined and tested
from other sources. If the reader were
prepared to believe that always “Lang Is
Right” and to forget that this slogan is
repeated now only nostalgically, then he
would be carried along by the momen-
tum of venom, by the emotions which
are generated by hatreds. For this book,
despite its convincing sympathy for the
unemployed, the underdog and the
underprivileged, is an essay in the lone-
liness which accompanies hatred. Around
the world in 70 chapters, the Big Feller
has sympathetic words for only three
people—Frank Anstey, Eddie Ward and
John T Jang. And the greatest of these
was Lang . .
One feels also that, although he talks
in this book much about the Labor rank-
and-file and wallows in the applause that
he received from Labor supporters at big
mass meetings, he isolated himself from
people. He walked alone, even when he
headed mighty processions of people who
cheered him —and voted against him. He
thrived on hating others; on being hated
himself. He enjoys the evidence that tie
was feared oy Dangers, newspaper pro-
prietors, economists, anti-Labor politi-
cians and Labor politicians who disagreed
with him. This opposition of so many
proved that Lang was right. Only he
now believes that —for one by one his
supporters left him, deserted him, cut
adrift from him, leaving him a lonely,
magnificent figure, striding the corridors
of Parliament House, Canberra, walking
along Sydney streets, head in the air,
still as defiant as when he was the most
admired and feared citizen in New South
Wales. He has been admired always,
even by those who no longer believe in
him. All this does not clearly appear in
his book, but it e plains it.
The author of this book is a volup-
tuary in hatred. Lacking rhythm and
organisation, the book would be heavy
going if it were not for the sardonic
anger that brightens its pages. Even
those who disagree most with its thesis
feel a sadistic pleasure in such passages
as this description of Scullin’s appear-
ance at the Parkes by-election:
“When he finished all the enthusiasm
had died out of the meeting. He told
the chairman he would go outside for a
few moments for a little fresh air. He
didn't return. Instead he left behind,
on his chair, a brand new English hat. It
was the silent symbol of what had hap-
pened to the man who had worn it. He
had delivered the speech that was
destined to wreck Labor unity in Aus*
tralia. He had abdicated to the people
with whom he had been mixing in Lon-
don. The hat remained. The Labor
leader had vanished into the night—back
to his suite at the Hotel Australia.”
On the extensive developments of the
depression, he writes:
“The North Shore was just as much
worried about the depression as Bal-
main. They, too, were seeking some
hope for the immediate future. The
liquidators and the mortgagees were not
class-conscious. They were foreclosing
on the big mansion in Wahroonga just
as eagerly as on the unemployed worker’s
cottage in Bankstown . . .”
Take again this comment on Professor
Copland—author of the Premiers’ Plan:
“Of all the professors I met during
that period, Giblin was the most down-
to-earth and likeable. Giblin had collec-
ted a DSO and a Military Cross for
bravery in France being wounded in
action. His chief interest was wood-
chopping. There we were on common
ground. I never did find anything in
common with Copland.”
Galbraith* also has his hatreds. Like
Lang, he writes with a grim humor that
makes fascinating the history of the
American crash. His anger is directed not
only against the weaknesses of the invest-
ment system, but also against the
economic experts who, failing to under-
stand the speculation boom, became fac-
tors in the collapse. But, unlike Lang,
after enjoying the debauchery of his de-
scriptions and of his personal indignation,
he feels obliged to seek for causes, not in
the misdeeds or vested interests of people,
but in general social factors the de-
cline in capital investment, the fall in
consumer spending, the inequitable dis-
tribution of the income, the bad bank-
ing structure, and the unhealthy state of
foreign balances.
Lang attempts no such analysis,' even
as a footnote. He prefers to indict a
man called Theodore, rather tnan a
social system. Jock Garden, who once
assisted Lang, but who is a minor sub-
ject of Lang’s criticism, is reputed to have
said that Lang was greater than Lenin.
Lenin could hate a social system and
produce a revolution. Lang could hate
only individuals, and so split a Party and
lose election after election.
'T'o read between the lines of his book
is to understand why this split was
inevitable. Briefly the thesis of Lang’s
memoirs is that the Australian depression
was deliberately created by overseas
bondholders, who put wealth before wel-
fare, and who were concerned only with
enslaving the Australian people. Only
Lang was prepared to wage a fight against
the bondholder on behalf of the Aus-


tralian unemployed. Only Lang could
have avoided the suffering, which Lang
most eloquently describes.
But Lang was basically wrong because
Australia needed a leadership that would
aim at uniting the forces of Labor to
those national elements who were re-
sisting deflation. There was no such lead-
ership admittedly, but Lang's demagogy,
his anti-intellectualism, his megalomania,
excluded his claims.
A typical illustration of his weakness
is his reference to Professor Gregory,
who accompanied Sir Otto Niemeyer to
Australia. “His family name had been
Guggenheimer, but like many others it
had been changed during the First World
War. He had been educated in both
England and Germany, and became a
Lecturer in the London School of
Economics in 1913, later becoming Pro-
fessor of Economics in the University
of London. I always referred to him as
Professor Guggenheimer. It was a name
that lent itself admirably to use in a
public meeting, and within the following
two years most Australians had heard
of the Professor ...” A few lines later
Lang hits out against Professors of the
London School of Economics who “al-
ways seemed to be drawn from the In-
ternational set.”
Lang was right in arguing that de-
flation was proceeding too drastically;
wrong in claiming that inflation pro-
vided a solution. Right in keeping the
sufferings of the unemployed in the fore-
front of the picture; wrong in speaking
as if there was a conspiracy to create
unemployment. Right in demanding that
recipients of interest should make their
share of sacrifices; wrong in claiming
HATER...AND HATED
that unilateral action was advisable. Right
in drawing attention to the views of
Keynes; wrong in assuming that his own
doctrines offered a solution. And, es-
pecially, if he was right in criticising the
weaknesses and divisions of his Federal
colleagues, he was wrong in encourag-
ing New South Wales conceit, factional-
ism and disunity.
This volume ends while Lang was still
in complete control of New South Wale’s
as leader of the Labor party and as
Premier of the State. The Treasury was
not completely empty. The Savings Bank
had not yet closed its doors. The Gover-
nor had not forced Lang to face the
electors. Like Milton’s Satan, Lang could
still declare that it was better to rule
in Hell than serve in Heaven.
THAT CERTAIN BOOK
THE STATELY HOLMES OF ENGLAND
By ROSS CAMPBELL
lVf R OLMES > they were the footprints
of a gigantic hound!”
How scary and fraught with excite-
ment that disclosure seemed when I was
fourteen. Today I see it only as a choice
specimen of the peculiar dialect of the
Sherlock Holmes literature. The speaker
could not say they were the footprints of
a big dog, because that would be a lapse
from the lofty plane of Sherlockese ; and
if he had said so, I would not have felt
the same creepy magic. A gigantic hound
it had to be. But every gigantic hound
has his day, and since that long-ago
time I have come to regard such animals
as big dogs. With that change in out-
look, much of the glory has faded from
the writings of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.
A fair number of the authors I read
in youth have since diminished in stature.
Those virile American novelists we
admired in the 19305, Hemingway
especially—what a set of dead-end kids
they turned out to be. And all the love-
and-death poets, like Swinburne, Baudel-
aire, and Housman. My fellow-feeling
for the woes of Shropshire lads, I per-
ceive now, existed largely because I was
not doing too well with the girls of my
own acquaintance. Those singers of
“the joys of the flesh and the sorrows
that wear out the soul' 7 were teenage
Peter Pans at heart. One comes to regard
their writings as stylish exercises in the
vein of “Sad Movies Always Make Me
Cry.”
My Sherlock Holmes phase occurred
earlier, before I began reading about love.
The singular unsexiness of Holmes was
indeed, part of his charm. “He never
spoke of the softer passions save with a
gibe and a sneer.” I was amazed by the
range of his knowledge ; what a Barry
Jones he would have made if there had
been late-Victorian quiz shows. And
he wore his learning so lightly and
modestly. “I have made a small study
of tattoo marks,” he said, “and have
even contributed to the literature of the
subject.” I did not yield to Dr Watson
himself in awe of Holmes's powers of
observation and inference. “You have
come up from the south-west, I see.
That clay and chalk mixture on your toe-
caps is quite distinctive.” Gosh !
A re-reading of some of the Baker St
stories gives a sharp reminder that I
could swallow more at 14 than now.
Those brilliant deductions by Sherlock
about his newly-arrived clients often
seem lucky guesses, and now and then
rather silly. Take his remark to Miss
Mary Sutherland in “A Case of
Identity”: “Do you not find that with
your short sight it is a little trying to do
so much typewriting?” Surely long sight
rather than short sight would be a handi-
cap to a typist. Holmes’s “deduction”
that this visitor had short sight was
based only on his observation that there
was “the dint of pince-nez on either side
of her nose.” Her wearing pince-nez
could be due to any kind of eye defect.
The fact that she did not wear her
pince-nez when she went out suggests
that her trouble was not short sight.
But this is a niggling objection. Much
of the Sherlockian reasoning stands up
well enough to examination and still
seems ingenious. The main trouble with
the literature is something else: it is the
extreme difficulty of taking it seriously
at all and not laughing. Consider the
use of disguises, on which the plot-
development often depends. Disguises
are out nowadays except for farcical
purposes ; one expects them from the
Three Stooges, not from a master detec-
tive. But Holmes is ever ready to resort
to the make-up kit. One of the quaintest
Ross Campbell is the first con-
tributor to this series in which
writers will take a second look at
the books which made an impact
on them in their early years. Other
contributors will be A. D. Hope,
Kenneth Slessor, Gavin Casey,
David McNicoll, Hal Porter, Peter
Hastings, Kylie Tennant, Donald
Horne, Harry Messel, Sydney
Deamer, Janies McAuley, Alexan-
der MacDonald, Max Harris, W.
C. Wentworth, Peter Coleman and
Alan Reid.


BOOKHUNTER
Dept •I),' - Box 2«71, G.PO., Sydney.
A servky for resulers. That di fih'n It to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
moments in the whole cycle is the scene
in “The Man With the Twisted Lip”
where Dr Watson discovers that an old
Chinese opium-smoker is none other
than the wizard of Baker Street.
“Holmes!’’ I whispered. "What on
earth are you doing in this den?” The
baddies pursued by Holmes, we note, are
equally apt to don false whiskers. In
“A Case of Identity” a villain disguises
himself so cleverly that he is able to
propose marriage to his step-daughter—
who lives in his house —and she eagerly
accepts him.
It is not in the plots of the stories,
however, that we find the essence of
Holmesian absurdity. The texture of the
writing is ridiculous in almost every
sentence, every phrase. Few writers ever
can have been so totally humorless, so
splendidly unaware of their own pom-
posity, as Conan Doyle. For page after
page, with utter seriousness, he main-
tains his steady production-rate of
cliches. Faces flush and darken, eyes
shine with a steely glitter, veins stand out
like whipcord, strong men exclaim
“Pshaw!'’ I do not believe that even in
the Victorian age anyone really said
Pshaw, and the use of Pshaw is a minor
criterion of phony writing.
Despite all this, a curious convention
prevails that one should never be openly
critical of the Sherlock Holmes litera-
ture. Ever since Ronald Knox began the
Baker Street cult, a mock-serious
reverence for the master detective has
been the accepted attitude among the
sophisticated. It was not a bad joke, but
not everybody saw' the point, and it has
tended to keep the reputation of Conan
Doyle's writings at an inflated level. I
feel impelled to make the plain, naive
statement that Sherlock Holmes is a
figure of period fun, with his know-all
patter, his royalty-dropping (“This ring
was a gift from the reigning family of
Holland”), his grand mannerisms like
tossing half-sovereigns to cabmen, and
his general air of the gaslit wise guy.
This is not to suggest that the Holmes
stories are undeserving of attention. As
well as being a treasure-house of
unconscious humor, they have the
authentic atmosphere of the time when
they were written. Conan Doyle was in
many ways a pure-bred specimen of the
prosperous middle class of the 'nineties.
One notices his contempt for the poor.
The unemployed are always referred to as
loafers. Holmes was very good at dis-
guising himself as one: “He hurried to
his chamber and was down again in a
few minutes dressed as a common loafer.
With his collar turned up, his shiny seedy
coaf, his red cravat, and his worn boots,
he was a perfect sample of the class.”
On the other hand, Conan Doyle has no
respect for the aristocracy either. The
high-born in his stories, like Lord St
Simon in “The Noble Bachelor,” are
arrogant persons with a deplorable taste
lor illicit love. (Lord St Simon is also
infelicitous in his diction. Referring to
his bride, he says: “I would not have
given her the name which 1 have the
honor to bear had 1 not thought her to be
at bottom a noble woman.”)
Life in the middle region inhabited by
Sherlock Holmes and his creator had
many agreeable features. Servants came
when they were called. (“.Some cold beef
and a glass of beer,” said Holmes, ringing
the bell.) "The portentous Sherlockese
language was a hepped-up version of that
actually used by a solemn, complacent,
well-to-do Englishman, which is what
Conan Doyle was. The French were the
first to appreciate its comical side, as was
shown by the excellent spoofing of
Holmes in the Arsene Lupin stories of
Maurice Leblanc. Today anyone can
enjoy the fun. “Come, Watson, the
game is afoot! ”
ONE MORE WITNESS
Go Well. Stay Well. South Africa,
1956-1960. Hannah Stanton. Hodder
and Stoughton. 20s.
Tn the wave of arrests which followed
Sharpeville it will be remembered that
the imprisonment and subsequent depor-
tation from South Africa of an English
woman missionary hit the headlines.
Hannah Stanton, who so unexpectedly
found herself an item of world news, has
now written an account of her exper-
iences. In South Africa the few whiles
who have managed to live on equal
terms with non-whites —to cross the
color bar to any extent —have frequently
been either devout Christians or commun-
ists. Miss Stanton is one of the former.
In a pertinent chapter on Bantu educa-
tion she rightly stresses that Nationalist
policies are not merely restricting African
progress, but attempting to turn the
clock back. Yet here, as in all her
general material, she appears to have
drawn heavily l'tom the reports and
writings of others. Even her accounts of
police brutality in Lady Selborne are
second-hand. Somehow', she was never
present at the incidents she reports.
Though she protested in letters to the
Press based on accounts of eye witnesses,
she seems to have been little involved in
political affairs. She was a member,
though not a very active one, of the
South African Liberal party ; she had
met Lutuli, but knew little of the back-
ground of the Congress Movement or the
Freedom Charter. One cannot help
wondering whether she was not more
involved than the book suggests. It may
well be that her only crime was to have
befriended Africans and protested against
injustices to them. If so. her arrest
illustrates the stupidity of South African
Government officials. Not that she was
badly treated by officials. Even in prison
apartheid must be observed and Euro-
pean women given fairly considerate
treatment. Thus whites who feel they are
suffering in the cause of freedom for
non-whites are prevented from identify-
ing themselves with them.
Miss Stanton's story is essentially that
of a fairly ordinary humane Christian
whose sense of values had not been per-
verted by the life of white South Africa.
JOAN RYDON
THINKING MANS PHILTRE
\ ny student setting out to discover the
mystery writing field can get out of
a lot of research simply by laying hands
on five new Great Pan reprints in paper-
back, fresh on the shelves this month.
For those who don’t care for the study
because they are aficionados anyway,
these five cater for all tastes, from circa
1922 to 1959.
Death Against The Clock —-Anthony
Gilbert. If you haven't met Gilbert's
answer to Perry Mason you must try this.
Arthur Crook is a lawyer like Perry who
specialises in re-opening, and of course
solving, open-and-shut cases. But Arthur
Crook (what inspiration!) is no sensa-
tion-seeker. He is fat, wears a shiny brown
suit, shiny brown boots and a positively
iridescent check cloth cap. And he
solves the insolvable with a stolid, plod-
ding, yet awesome efficiency. In this case
he saves a convicted murderer from the
gallows by discovering that when a not-
so-dear old lady is knocked on the head
and her handbag stolen, there can be
plenty of other reasons for murder than
petty theft. Well put together and always
interesting without any nail-biting excite-
ment, it’s the thinking man's philtre.
Is it being old-fashioned to think that
Edgar Wallace's 1922 thriller epic The
Angel of Terror is the pick of the
month's offerings? Or is it merely re-


Ezra Pound’s Essays On Ignorance
Edited with an introduction by Australian
writer Noel Stock, IMPACT presents clearly
the complete Pound; his views on educa-
tion, history, money, literature and cul-
ture. PRICE 47/6, POSTED.
THE HERITAGE BOOKSHOP,
273 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE SCOTS COLLEGE
Bellevue Hill Sydney
Master to teach Modern and
Ancient History to matriculation
standard required to begin duties
on Ist May, 1962. Full particulars
apply The Principal.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES. —In Divorce.
TO FRANCIS JAMES COWIN formerly of 13 Searle
Street Petersham.—TAKE NOTICE that ISAREL
MAY COWIN has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
3845 of 1961 on the ground of separation If you
wish to defend you may enter an answer in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court Mint Building Mac-
quarie Street Sydney by the 11th day of May 1962
and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from McDONELL AND MOFFITT, Solicitors, of 6
Wynyard Street, Sydney. If you do not wish to file
an answer but wish to receive a copy of each docu-
ment filed in the proceedings you should file a notice
of address for service on or before such date
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 4291 of 1961.
TO NOEL JAMES COONEY late of North Strathfield
New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that JOAN
COONEY has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4291
of 1961 on the grounds of separation AND TAKE
NOTICE that if you wish to defend you may file
an answer in the Divorce Registry Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney on or before the 4th May
1962. A copy of the petition may be obtained with-
out charge from MESSRS. PETER G. KEARNEY &
CO., Solicitors, 254 George Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES. —In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Act, 1959.
TO GORDON JOSEPH MICHAEL late of 3 Cram-
mond Boulevarde Caringbah in the State of New
South Wales—TAKE NOTICE that DORIS MARY
MICHAEL has filed a Petition for on the
grounds of (a) Desertion and (b) Drunkenness If
you wish to defend you may file an answer in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court Mint Building Mac-
quarie Street Sydney in the State of New South
Wales bv the 28th May 1902 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from J. J. KIELY, Solici-
tor, 17 Gastlereagh Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
freshing these days to read about a trusty
bodyguard who wears a pointed white
beard, has one arm and who limps from
a bullet in the ankle that came not from a
Viet Cong, nor a North Korean, or even
a German, but a Boer? The men are all
handsome chaps who divest themselves
of homberg hats and woolly coats before
ushering slender-necked lovely girls,
toques gracing their shapely heads,
through vine-covered porticos into
panelled halls lit by silver electroliers
suspended from carven roofs. Quite
often horrifyingly improbable, but always
pleasant, it’s one for the archives.
Speaking of Perry Mason as we were,
two better than average Erie Stanley
Gardner Cases show up—The Case of
the Green-eyed Sister and The Case of
the Musical Cow. “Sister” is the Perry
Mason mixture as ever with a supposed
bank robbery that leads to blackmail and
eventually to murder with an ice pick,
and the disposal of the corpus in a deep
freeze along with the household beans
and packets of chicken chow mien.
There’s the usual fascinating trick, this
one electronic, and it all comes right as
usual in the last few pages. One for the
long train journey.
“Cow” is one of Gardner’s best, in
which he shows that outside of the Mason
formula he can be a very great thriller
writer indeed. A young American re-
turning home from Paris is caught in a
fantastic but chillingly possible web of
circumstances which cause him to first
be suspected of smuggling dope and then
of murdering the man who is supposed
to be investigating him. Dr Dixon uses
forensic medicine to clear the whole thing
up after a series of highly absorbing and
completely credible adventures. One to
read at least twice.
Saint Errant —Leslie Charteris. That
hero to end all heroes—the Saint —lands
in all the impossible situations, always
gets out of them in an improbable but
just possible way in a collection of nine
short stories. Each story carries the
name of the exotic girl who happens to
require the Saint’s attentions in one way
or the other and in the end our hero
incredibly falls shot through the heart,
his life blood trickling through his
fingers. But does he die? It's well worth
finding out just how he gets out of that
one. One for the night the TV breaks
down.
FRANK MARGAN
A SEARCH FOR IDENTITY
Walt Whitman. Geoffrey Dutton.
Oliver and Boyd. ss. 6d.
C'eldom read, Whitman is seldom praised
either, for he is decidedly unfashion-
able. When one reads Mr Dutton’s
enthusiastic introduction to the man and
his work, it is harder than ever to see
why this should be so. All the require-
ments for popularity, if not for a vogue,
seem to be there. There is the abnormal
sexual life, the search for an identity,
involving the assumption of a series of
public personalities or masks, of the
kind which, in Yeats, has given rise to
hosts of learned articles, and there is the
life-long struggle to obtain recognition
in his own country. There is, moreover,
his daring modernity, and his influence,
either admitted or too strenuously denied,
on such figures as Hopkins, Yeats,
Lawrence, Pound and Eliot. Finally,
there is a substantial body of excellent
poetry, easily distinguishable from his
unsuccessful verse Scorning cheap
critical victories, for when Whitman falls
flat, as he generally does when he is
trumpeting about the Democratic Way
of Life, he falls very flat indeed, Mr
Dutton wisely directs us to what is of
lasting interest.
The first section deals with Whitman’s
life and his prose writings, thus by
implication denying Mr Eliot’s conten-
tion that Whitman never wrote anything
but prose. There is no attempt to strap
the poet to a psychiatrist’s couch, and
in the second section, dealing with the
poetry, no attempt to dismember the
poems for a case history.
This sound critical principle of recog-
nising biographical investigation as
profitable only when it is relevant to the
work, makes up in part for what seems
to this reviewer the disproportionately
small section devoted to the poems them-
selves. With less than half of the book
devoted to the poems, comment on the
quotations must need be brief, and leaves
little room for the demonstration of that
poetic excellence that the writer clearly
believes them to possess. While any
reader of Whitman must be grateful for
the very clear “plan” of “Song of Myself.”
he must also feel frustrated by the brevity
of the comments on those remarkable
poems “Out of the Cradle endlessly rock-
ing” and “When Lilacs last in the Door-
yard bloom’d.” At some times the method
of a brief general comment can be
illuminating, as when the theme of “Song
of Myself” is defined as “the search for a
truly living identity,” but at others an
impressive vagueness is substituted for
genuine criticism. For instance, to call
section 5 of the same poem (“I believe
in you my soul ...-”) “one of the
greatest mystical visions in all poetry”
makes one wonder not only what is
meant, but also what standards of com-
parison are being used. Perhaps the
most impressive part of the account o,
the poetry is the demonstration that
Whitman’s insistence on death is essential
to a poet who celebrates life.
Even if some of the claims for
Whitman seem exaggerated, what is
very clearly conveyed is a sincere appre-
ciation of the poetry. I know of no
substitute for this sort of enthusiasm if
people are to be made to want to read
something, but it is a pity that space did
not allow Mr Dutton to demonstrate his
reasons more fully.
DERICK MARSH


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO GEORGE BARRY FARRELL late of 5 Geelong
Street East Brisbane Queensland. —TAKE NOTICE
that NORMA JUNE FARRELL has filed a Petition
for Dissolution of Marriage No. 3090 of 1961 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or excuse for
a period of not less than two years If you wish to
defend you may file an answer in the Divorce Registry
'Mint Building Macquarie Street Sydney by the 11th
day of May 1962 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from MESSRS. HILLIARD & BERRY,
Solicitors, of 17 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, Solicitors
for the Petitioner. —C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WARREN JAMES PERKINS formerly of New-
town.—TAKE NOTICE that MARGARET EILEEN
PERKINS has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 188
of 1962 in the Supreme Court of New South Wales
on the ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for two years and upwards and on the ground
of cruelty If you wish to defend you may file an
answer in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by the twenty-
first day of May 1962 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from HAROLD C. WESTALL,
Solicitor, of 382 a Pacific Highway, Crows Nest. —
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Matrimonial Causes Act, 1959.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
M.C. 113 of 1961.
TO BARBARA DAWN CLEAVER married woman
formerly of Elizabeth Street Hobart but whose
present address is unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that
JOSEPH FREDERICK CLEAVER has filed a Divorce
Petition against you on the ground of desertion In-
cluded in the Petition is a claim for custody of
the child of the marriage AND TAKE NOTICE that
if you intend to defend the Petition you must file
an answer within 28 days of the publication of this
notice at the Registry of the Supreme Court of
Tasmania Murray Street Hobart in Tasmania from
which address further information can be obtained
otherwise the Court may hear and determine the
procedure in your absence DATED the 15th day
of March 1962. —C. BRETTINGHAM-MOORE,
Registrar.
BUTLER McINTYRE & BUTLER, 22 Murray Street,
Hobart, Agents for MESSRS. ARCHER GUY JACK-
SON & SMITH, Devonport, Solicitors for the
Petitioner.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO VACLOVAS DUBAUSKAS.—TAKE NOTICE that
RUTH EDELTRAUD DUBAUSKAS has filed her
Petition for Divorce No. 4043 of 1961 on the grounds
of separation and desertion If you wish to defend
the suit you may enter an answer at the Divorce
Office Mint Building Macquarie Street Sydney by the
11th day of May 1962 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from MR. P. R. MEYER-
THOENE, Solicitor, of 185 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Missing Friends
WILL any descendents of ALBERT LESLIE
CAMPBELL with children NANCY and FRANK, who
emigrated to Australia from Penge, Surrey, in about
1878, please communicate with K. M. CAMPBELL.
Wicklands, Little Horsted, Uekfield, Sussex, England.
WOULD anybody knowing the present whereabouts
or information that might lead to the present
whereabouts of Mr. EDWARD NAY, formerly of
Smithfield. please contact MESSRS. BARKELL &
PEACOCK, Solicitors, of 11C Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Positions Vacant
INSTRUCTOR FOR
OUTWARD BOUND SCHOOL
Age: 20 to 30
Must have experience in at least one out-
door activity which would include sailing,
canoeing, bush walking, climbing.
Strong leadership qualities and a leaning to
teach and guide youth are essential.
The position is residential at our Hawkesbury
River School and is permanent with good
prospects for advancement.
Salary will depend entirely on experience.
This position provides magnificent back-
ground experience for anyone who may later
desire to follow such vocations as teaching,
youth work, etc.
It can also prepare those looking for more
adventurous or dedicated pursuits.
Apply in writing with full details to The
Warden, Outward Bound School, Fisherman’s
Point, Via Brooklyn, NSW.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 686
ACROSS
I—Parent1 —Parent to fit up the venerable flower. (8)
s—An5 —An uncouth American in a garment. (6)
9 —Abyssinian ruler seems a little negative to you
and me. (5)
10 —Whence aeroplanes might take off for more raids
in secret. (9)
12— Object when it’s one in the morning. (3)
13 — One famous fighting force backed by another
material for weaving. (6)
14— A secret agent is snake-infested. (4)
16— I go in tin. (anagram) (8)
17 — A permanent agitation of the
arm? (4)
20 — Force Mary to be different. (4)
21 — Country to do a gift. (8)
23 — Father in considerable discom-
fort. (4)
24 — He takes a Caribbean island for
Priam’s wife. (6)
25 Winter footwear. (3)
27 — Conduct a simple piece of group
singing suffered by those whose
“dates” don’t turn up. (9)
28 — Country must be mentioned in
this feature article. (5)
29 A skyscraper set one’s sights
high! (6)
30 — Bright young people met stars
in hiding. (5, 3)
DOWN
1— Advice if a metropolis is
damaged is to be expected of
a liar. (9)
2 One feature of dictatorship
about private thought. (13)
3 Fuel gait of a horse is to circle
my stomach operation. (10)
4 Game enough to jump over a
croaker. (8)
6 Count a hearer over fifty. (4)
7 An upset pig-pen is unpleasant.
(5)
8 — It is not necessarily an express
exercise. (5)
11 —Bobby Simpson isn’t respon-
sible for many of these petti-
coated girls. (6, 2,5)
15 —Island auto of an influential
Moslem who’s crazy. (10)
18— He begs for the confession of
an incorrigible wrongdoer. (9)
19 — A little business to manage mud
when put up on a very hard
element. (8)
22 — Picture puzzle about some con-
veyance. (5)
23 — This makes an Italian place a
limb in father. (5)
26 —Uncle Remus’s brother. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 685


f
EJ
/
r
EXTRAS
The American blend cigarette now made
in Australia... so much fresher
measure your cigarette here
LYLE
'
\\m
&
v-
it 2 APR 1962
•n
m asst..*-
"AN BE RB
&
0
a
EXTRAS
...
20
v'v::v
.
? u£^
ANO sU
i
[_£ A £
I <3 Ht
0 K
=V...
:
Only Carlyle could.
taste so good it’s blended
fjfr
just
a touch
of Turkish
World Copyright
MANUFACTURED FOR THE AMERICAN CIGARETTE COMPANY (OVERSEAS) PTY. LTD.
CE5061.2.62
