

The Bulletin
NOVEMBER 17, 1962
Australia 1/-, New Zealand 2/-, Malaysia $1
AN AUSTRALIAN JOURNAL OF COMMENT AND OPINION - EST. 1830
Registered in Australia /or transmission by post as a newspaper.
THE BOOM IN
LIGHT AIRCRAFT
• NEW YORK NEWSLETTER
• CUBA—ANOTHER VIEW
• SHORT STORY
• A NOTE ON DIGBY WOLFE


m
m
m
*
m
*
t
m
%
#
i <
* I
i 1
\ 1
DALWOOD
E
D
DALWOOD
hermitage
Hunter Valley Australia
>4. rff.-Ti
Humcr Valiev Australia
CLARET
CHABLIS
Reserve Bottling
ww
Reserve B<mling
CONTENTS- t PT. 6 PL. ozs
***» ttY *CfcF©I.DS WINES f* L7^„
AOfl , lD , bM ,*ba«< h
Co *T£NTS: 1 PT. 6 FL. OZS
-
m m
, v ' * »*V
THE CLASSIC WINES OF DALWOOD
Dalwood in the Hunter Valley of New South Wales has
long been known to wine enthusiasts for its outstanding
table wines. This historic vineyard established in 1831 by
a gentleman from Wiltshire named George Wyndham,
was later acquired and extensively developed by Penfolds.
Dalwood Wines are classic examples of the table wines
that have made the Hunter Valley famous.
DALWOOD HERMITAGE CLARET
DALWOOD BURGUNDY
DALWOOD RIESLING
DALWOOD CHABLIS


National Notebook
Condensed course
TV/f/VNY have been the complaints about
the way Australians curtsy before
Royalty on Royal tours. Perhaps you
remember the tour of the Queen Mother.
Many a matron, who was putting on
years as well as weight, would sink
towards the floor then hang on to the
Queen Mother’s hand to save herself
from capsizing. As Nancy Mitford used
to say, knees would crack like pistol
shots.
However, do not despair the Hans
Joachim Meyer School of Deportment
in Hawthorn, Melbourne, has put out a
notice to its clients.
It reads: “It has been suggested that
we should make it more widely known
that the school has arranged a special
and condensed course in deportment for
men and women of all age groups, who
will have an opportunity
of attending functions
during the forthcoming
visit of Her Majesty and
His Royal Highness the
Duke of Edinburgh. The
course will comprise tui-
tion in court curtsy
plain bob, half and full curtsy and
general social etiquette in the presence
of Royalty in accordance with the rulings
of the Ceremonial Office, London.”
It could be of equal value if someone
would only start a condensed course to
show men and women of all age groups
how they can get invitations to Royal
functions.
Accustomed as I am . . .
VST e ran into author Morris West at
a meeting of Sydney PEN last
week, where he was guest speaker. Mr
West seems to be one of Sydney’s most
indefatigable public speakers. However,
he says his appearances average out at
only about 23 a year.
‘'Most people give cheques to charity,”
Mr West told us. “I don’t. 1 give my
presence. People pay to come and talk
to me and hear me talk.”
However, he finds that all this is
cutting into writing time. Mr West also
expressed disappointment that Austra-
lian magazines seemed reluctant to
publish him. “They’re frightened of me.”
he said. He mentioned that “1 ife” maga-
zine paid him 15.000 dollars for a short
article recently.
Greek
M7"e knew the Greeks were responsible
for western drama, but we weren't
sure how well it had weathered among
Greek migrants. Producer-actor-artist-
telephone-mechanic Chris Mantouridis,
who looks like a model for an ancient
choregic statue, enlightened us during a
pause in rehearsals for a new play bis
Greek National Theatrical Group will
stage in Sydney shortly. ;
In his cluttered Kings Cross flat domi-
nated by a huge painting of a Greek
temple (T did it for a friend who's
opening a new cafe”) he told us that
despite their heritage, many modern
Greeks have only a passing interest in
the ancient tragedies and comedies. Their
tastes run to revues and modern plays
or foreign works translated into Greek.
Mantouridis, who was born in Cairo,
has never been to Greece. “1 prefer to
live in the Greek spirit,” he said. “I
might be disappointed if I went there.”
He began his theatre career before the
war when he produced “Hecuba” for the
Greek community in Cairo. When war
broke out he joined the
British army. He had a
claim to British national-
ity because his father was
a Cypriot. In uniform he
was seconded to the
entertainment group and
later transferred on loan
to the Greek troops in the Middle East.
Migrating to Sydney in 1949 he pro-
duced a Greek medieval play eight
months after arrival which made an
impression even on the Australian Press.
Since then he has produced and acted in
a number of plays including “Oedipus
Rex” with Melpo Zaracosta. At present
under rehearsal is a play by Greek
migrant railway worker Theo Patraka-
reas dealing with migrant problems.
Patrakareas, who writes with the autho-
rity of a participant, has avoided local
hostilities and concentrated on problems
the migrants bring with them.
Mantouridis told us he gets quite a
number of plays written by Greek
migrants. But this is the only one he has
considered worth staging. In fact arrival
on his doorstep of this play has resusci-
tated his group and he plans a long list
of future productions from “Pygmalion”
to “Prometheus Bound.”
Artist Among Authors
\ rtist Russell Drysdale is a modest
and charming man, but it was
difficult to see at first why the S'-Hnov
book trade chose him to open Book
Week officially at a dinner at the
Journalists’ Club.
However, there were obvious virtues
in having someone, who in spite of co-
authorship of the runaway success,
“Journey Among Men.” still referred to
himself in his speech as an “amateur”
BUYING A WINE? Page 22
A matter of labels ...
9
The Melville Row 6
Boom in Light Aircraft .... 12
Digby Wolfe In The Shade
Of The Yum-Yum Tree .... 17
The Great Chrysler Art
Scandal 21
I Dreamt I Went Mad in the
F.BI. 22
Cuba A Different View? 24
The Indispensable Mr Nehru 26
TV and Mr Hayden Out of
Tune 34
Ross Campbell’s Oxalis
Cottage 37
Wanted New Tariff Watch-
dog 41
•
TANNER 4
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
80 YEARS AGO 7
AROUND MELBOURNE 10
OUT AND ABOUT 17
NEW YORK
NEWSLETTER 21
OVERSEAS 24
SHORT STORY 28
LETTERS 32
REVIEWS 34
RED PAGE 37
WORLD OF BUSINESS 41
FEIFFER 59
MAN ON THE LAND 61
THE BULLETiN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY. LTD.
HEAD OFFJCE: 252 George Sf., Sydney.
Editorial & Advertising: Bax 2521: Phone
27-5971. Melbourne: Phone MF3341. Bris-
bane: Phone B 2691. Adelaide: Phone
W 4121-3.
Vol. 85
No. 4318


among writers. And it was undoubtedly
tactful to have someone who is not
published here, rather than choosing one
particular author from one particular
local publishing house.
There is the point, too, that some
booksellers are out of stock of “Journey
Among Men” and don't expect further
copies until January, when the Christ-
mas peak buying will be w'ell over. This
might serve as a lesson to us all on the
virtues of publishing locally.
Petition
Tasmanian House of Assembly last
week defeated a move to have a
select committee investigate an alleged
injustice to a private citizen. It so lost
an opportunity to enact a process which
had been invoked for the first time this
century. The grievance itself had its
origins more than 50 years ago when
the Hobart City Council took over the
Mt Stuart Tow n Board.
The petitioner w'as Victor Leonard
Hooper, of Mt Stuart, who claimed that
he had long suffered damage and loss
and had been forced to pay more than
£IOOO to the council for reconstruction
of a road which the council classed as
private, but which he said had been ac-
cepted as a public road at the time of the
takeover. Documents produced in the
House supported Mr Hooper's conten-
tion. The House was also told that a
senior solicitor believed that Mr Hooper
no longer had recourse in law and that
only Parliament, in response to a peti-
tion, could right the injustice.
Mrs Mabel Miller, MHA, an aider-
man of Hobart City Council and a bar-
rister herself, contended that the setting
up of a committee would be a reflection
on the judiciary. Perhaps a little un-
charitably, she warned against “opening
the doors of Parliament to every impro-
vident and disgruntled person who has
made a bad bargain.”
In The Odor Of Sanctity
\ macabre note on the Ecumenical
Council now meeting in Rome, is
that it has been estimated that 150
bishops may die during the sittings of
the Council. Former Bulletin staff
member, Desmond O'Grady, writing in
the Melbourne "Advocate,” gives the
score to date. An Italian bishop died at
the Piazza Venezia on his way to the
Council. The Bishop of Buffalo has died
since the opening of the Council, as have
Bishop Hogan, from India, and Bishop
Aston Chicester, SJ, retired Bishop of
Salisbury, Southern Rhodesia. Bishop
Chicester died on the steps of St Peter's
last week. Archbishop Pothacamury, of
Bangalore, knowm to many Australians,
has returned home because of illness.
Down on the farm
JI/Tr Charles Kelly, the Federal member
for Wakefield, SA, who asked ques-
tions in the House last week about the
resignation of the chairman of the Tariff
Board, Sir Leslie Melville, is fond of
creating the impression that he knows
little of politics. Since his election four
years ago, Mr Kelly, who has a station
north of Adelaide, has declared:
“1 am not a real politician. 1 do not
know what is going on hall the time. 1
am just a poor silly farm-boy.”
Mr Kelly says the most important
thing he has done was the work on the
Forster committee which "tried to evolve
an agricultural system for the Northern
Territory.” In 1951 he was the first
Australian to receive a Nuffield scholar-
ship and with it he spent some time in
England studying agriculture. His father,
Mr W. S. Kelly, was a member of the
Tariff Board from 1929 to 1940.
Looking Ahead
4 n eight-lane freeway around the city
extensive off-street parking ... a new
university . . . these are some of the pro-
posals of Adelaide’s Town Planning
Committee, the report of which has been
tabled in Parliament.
The Committee, consisting of the
Town Planner, Mr Hart, the Town
Clerk, Mr Veale, and three prominent
architects, Messrs Cheesman, Murrell
and Tyler, has prepared a report which
plans Adelaide’s growth for the next 30
years. The plan has been hailed as
‘'historic, bold, imaginative, practical
and comprehensive.”
With Adelaide’s population expected
to double to over one million in 20
years, the plan has paid particular
attention to metropolitan development.
Five years ago, the urban area covered
about 120 square miles; in another 30
"The Duke is right.
"Indiscrirrcinate slaughter of wildlife
is appalling!


years, it will have more than doubled in
size. The Committee considers the best
way to deal with this is to form districts
with populations of 80,000 to 150,000.
The suburbs will be linked with six free-
ways.
The report is not revolutionary, but
it provides a working basis for Adelaide’s
development. The catchwords appear to
be order, beauty and convenience.
Colonel Light might have been proud
of it.
Pilkington report
IMTembers of the NSW Branch of the
Royal Institute of Directors, got to-
gether during the week in Sydney to
hear Sir Harry Pilkington, head of the
British glass company. Apart from being
also a director of the Bank of England,
Sir Harry has chaired a number of Royal
Commissions and investigations. These
include this year’s committee on broad-
casting.
Sir Harry supported Britain’s pro-
posed entry into the European Common
Market. Mr Asher Joel, MLC, preposing
the vote of thanks referred to a phrase
used by Sir Harry—that Australia was a
daughter of the parent United Kingdom.
“At the present time,” Mr Joel said,
“the Australian daughter is suffering
from a sense of emotional bewilderment.
She has been a daughter who has been
affectionate, respectful and dutiful in
every way. Now for the first time the
daughter has come home in trouble and
all that she is asking is that at least the
confinement expenses should be paid.”
Tamer
You've no idea of the trouble we
tad finding a tiger for him to
shoot.”
PLAIN ENGLISH
WOOL FOR THE ARMIES OF CHINA?
pRIME MINISTER NEHRU’S warning to his fellow countrymen that
China may bomb Indian cities is not necessarily designed to scare
Indians into a sense of urgency and danger. The urgency and danger of
the Himalayan conflict are realities for all people in South East Asia and
not least for Australians. It is not merely that the Sino-Indian conflict may
suddenly develop into a full-scale war, it is the nature of that war—a
contest between the two Asian giants for Asian leadership. In this country
it has become habit for many to criticise the double-think and double-
standards which have marked some of the statements and actions of
Indian statesmen since Independence, particularly those of the odious
and now thankfully deposed Mr Menon. Complacently priding ourselves
on our sensible western democracy, not thinking very highly of non-align-
ment, contemptuous of the sentiments formalised at Bandoeng, we seem to
forget that India is a democracy too—apart from Malaya the only real
democracy in South Asia. We conveniently ignore the fact that the vast,
sprawling, impoverished sub-continent of India has been the largest scale
democratic experiment the world has known; an area where parliamentary
institutions and the rule of law have prevailed despite crushing economic,
racial and developmental problems. This democracy now faces a crucial
test of strength with a country quite as vast and with a bigger population
and greater resources Communist China. The outcome of the contest
may decide whether Asia goes Communist or not. It is to be hoped that
this country will help India in its struggle to the utmost of its ability.
This may require quite a bit of re-thinking about our relations with Asia
and not least with Red China whose troops we now help to feed on
Australian wheat and whose armies if present hopes for expanding our
wool trade come to fruition we may yet help to clothe.
DRINKING IN NEW GUINEA
JT may be a little early to rejoice but it seems that the introduction
of drinking for New Guinea natives may have gone off
better than might have been expected. It is true that 90,000
bottles of beer were sold to Port Moresby natives on the first day the new
laws operated, that on the same day the bar takings of one hotel alone
exceeded £,lOOO and that retailers of food and commodities reported a
disappointing drop in turnover. However, these things were to be expected
and will right themselves in time. Much worse might have happened and
didn t. What is important about the new laws is that they represent a big
step forward in Australian-New Guinean relations. All will hope that New
Guineans prove sensible and moderate drinkers. Whether they do or
not is irrelevant to the central point at issue. The new laws remove an
intolerable form of discrimination as well as a restrictive practice of which
New Guinea’s sly grog trade made nonsense in any case.
The former “Europeans only” drinking laws of New Guinea
represented in native eyes one of the least palatable aspects of white
supremacy. In the face of some solid Territorian opposition and the
pessimism of island and mainland “experts” both Territories Minister
Paul Hasluck and the Administration acted sensibly and courageously in.
ushering in the new deal. 4 .


THIS AUSTRALIA
THE TARIFF BOARD
SIR LESLIE'S RESIGNATION
Wanted: A long, hard look at the
Tariff Board's charter
As I see It
J. McEWEN
No row?
TTnless Sir
Leslie Mel-
ville produces
some evidence of pressure of an improper
kind (as distinct from legitimate repre-
sentations) being exerted upon the Tariff
Board, there is a lot of nonsense being
talked about the reasons for his resigna-
tion from the Chairmanship of that body.
If there has been pressure of this im-
proper nature, Sir Leslie, 60, a very
senior Commonwealth Public Servant for
many years, is now in the position in
which he is free to direct, with the utmost
propriety, public attention to what has
been going on. Trade Minister John
McEwen has stated publicly in the Parlia-
ment that Sir Leslie is at liberty to make
a public statement, and no Public Servant
would be given greater authority than a
Parliamentary statement of this kind to
say what he pleases.
Until evidence or even charges that
such pressures have been exerted are pro-
duced, Sir Leslie's resignation has to be
examined in the context of:
• What is known officially;
9 What can be gleaned unofficially; and
• The validity or otherwise of the view-
points that may have influenced him into
making the decision to resign and to
accept a post of consultant to the World
Bank in Washington.
At this stage all that is known offici-
ally is that Sir Leslie has resigned, and
the Minister to whom he tendered his
resignation—McEwen—has stated that
he has not had an open clash with Sir
Leslie and that the only explicit matter
about which Sir Leslie has expressed dis-
content is the number of staff for the
Tariff Board and the pace at w'hich the
staff has been increased.
My own investigations tend to confirm
what McEwen claims—that he has had
no overt row with Melville. Unofficially,
however, there is reason to believe that
Sir Leslie was unhappy (which is quite a
distinct thing from having a row) with
the Government's decision to set up the
Special Authority to give emergency
tariff 7 protection to Australian industries
threatened with extinction by an over-
whelming flood of cheap imports; with
the Government's refusal to allow the
Tariff Board to recruit its own staff or to
operate outside the Public Service; and
with the slowness with which the Tariff
Board got staff once its request for staff
autonomy was refused.
If there was a row, that would not alter
the situation. These apparently are the
points of disagreement which (apart
from personal reasons) could have deci-
ded Melville to put in his resignation.
Undoubtedly the most important of
these points of disagreement is the one
over the Special Advisory Authority on
Tariffs.
The Tariff Board represents the econ-
omic approach. It examines the question
of whether an Australian industry is en-
titled to protection basically on the cri-
teria of efficiency and need. It is Free
Trade with modifications. It is concer-
ned with social factors but they have a
lower priority than the economic con-
siderations.
The Special Advisory Authority on
Tariffs—the adviser is Sir Frank Meere, a
former Comptroller-General of Customs
—has a frankly social basis. It is concer-
ned with the protection of internal devel-
opment and employment. In a way, it is
an ingenious substitute for the old Gov-
ernment-operated import control system,
though set up for a different purpose.
The old import control system was to
preserve a viable balance of payments
for the Australian economy. The new
system is to preserve a viable level of
development and employment opportu-
nity until the Tariff Board can examine
the economic factors involved and rule
on the worthiness of the industry to
survive permanently as part of the Aus-
tralian economy.
Though the overriding powers of the
Tariff Board have been left untouched
- it still has the unfettered right to
make what recommendations it so de-
sires to the Government Sir Leslie
Melville is essentially an economist. His
entire training is in that field. It is diffi-
cult to see him happy about the present
setup. Here is another social pressure in
the shape of the Special Advisory
Authority on Tariffs being added to the
indirect pressure already exerted by Par-
liament and the Government lor greater
consideration of the social factors when
tariff making. And these pressures for
greater consideration of the social
factors when tariff making are undoub-
tedly going to grow if Britain enters the
European Common Market thereby
bringing to Australia a complex of social
problems for which purely economic
answers will be insufficient.
Whether he intended it for that pur-
pose or not, Sir Leslie's resignation pro-
vides an opportunity for both study and
revision of the Tariff Board's charter.
HEALTH
H.C.F. AND M.B.F.
The personality issue
HThis month has seen a threatened spilt
between the Medical Benefits Fund
and the Flospital Contributions Fund of
NSW, which, combined, make Australia's
largest hospital and medical insurance
fund.
The Medical Benefits Fund operates in
Queensland and Tasmania as well as
NSW. Since 1960 the two organisations
have been jointly administered in NSW,
even though both are registered as sepa-
rate bodies with the Commonwealth
Government.
The administrative merger took place
in 1960 and was primarily aimed at
economy. It suited contributors because
the payment of claims was simplified, es-
pecially after the opening of the new 15-
storey building in George Street, Sydney.
Despite the saving in accounting costs
they have maintained the same rates of
repayment while doctors' and hospitals
charges have risen,
Reasons for the split are still shrouded
in mystery. However, a report was made
to the board of the HCF, at a meeting on


October 26, stating that administration
costs had risen over the past year. Sir
Ronald Grieve, the Chairman of MBF,
has admitted this, but blames the rise on
non-recurring costs involved in the admin-
istrative amalgamation and the creation
of a new contribution table, 58. He
further claims that HCF had handled
360,000 more transactions over the year
and reduced its staff by 26.
The real reason for the split may lie
in jealousy between the two organisations,
what one HCF board member called “the
personality issue.” The HCF feels that
the administration, as it now operates,
favours MBF which is a much bigger
organisation. MBF employs 1000 people
and owns property valued at more than
£1,600,000. The MBF also has the major
share in the new George Street building,
which was opened on October 7 last year.
This in itself could create problems for
the HCF should it persevere with the
split.
Senator Wade, the Federal Minister for
Health, said the Federal Government was
keeping watch on the situation, and would
endeavour to act in the best interests of
the contributors. The NSW Premier, Mr
Heffron told the NSW Parliament on
November 1 that he was “concerned”
about the split, but the Minister for
Health, Mr Sheahan, said that it was a
matter for the Commonwealth, although
he had known the split was coming for
some time.
There is reason to doubt that the deci-
sion to break represents the views of all
the board of HCF. Dr H. Hunter, Secre-
tary of the NSW branch of the AMA—
and a member of the HCF executive—
said that urgent action should be taken
to heal the breach.
One of the things the AMA wanted
done was the holding of a joint meeting
to discuss the matter. The boards of both
funds agreed and the meeting was held
last Thursday in the board room at the
George St building. The Press was exclu-
ded on the request of the Chairman of
the HCF, Mr W. R. Harrop. No deci-
sions were taken at the meeting, but
Mr L. D. Davies, independent chairman
of the company which controls the
administration of both funds, said he was
hopeful of a settlement and said a further
meeting would be held at some future
date.
One of the interesting sidelights on the
row is that each fund has threatened to
enter the field of the other. Sir Ronald
threatened to enter the field of hospital
benefits and the HCF counter-threatened
to enter the medical field in NSW.
Whatever happens, it will be a year
before the split becomes effective because
by agreement a year’s notice must be
given before one company breaks away
from the other.
ROBERT MURRAY
POLITICS
THE COUNTRY PARTY MOVES SOUTH
Towards a non-Labor Government in Tasmania?
revelation on November 7 that the
A Liberal Party’s Northern Tasmanian
Organiser, H. S. Huntington, had been
appointed State Director of the Country
Party has confirmed the effectiveness of
the Country Party’s Tasmanian infiltra-
tion. Belatedly, Liberal Party State
Director D. H. Tribolet admitted that
Huntington had resigned, and had
already been replaced.
Next day, while officially announcing
Huntington’s appointment, Mr C. R.
Best, MLC, incidentally revealed that he
himself had become provisional chair-
man of the new State branch of the
Country Party.
Earlier, when first whispers got around
of the Country Party’s move into the one
State in which it had not been repre-
sented for many years, Mr Best was
named as one of the sponsors. A farmer
at Deloraine, and a Liberal MHA until
his election as an Independent to the
Legislative Council in 1958, Mr Best
was an obvious target for Country Party
overtures. However, he indicated initi-
ally that indifferent health would
preclude his accepting active Party
leadership.
In mid-October, the hitherto tomb-
silent Country Party made its first an-
nouncement, allowing the newspapers to
“understand” that its Federal Chairman,
Mr W. L. Moss, and Federal Secretary,
Mr J. F. Dredge, had accepted invita-
tions to visit Tasmania to discuss forma-
tion of a State branch of the Party. The
Tasmanian representatives in the nego-
tiations remained faceless.
At the end of the month, Messrs Moss
and Dredge attended the meeting. After-
wards they told reporters that Messrs R.
Bethell, T. K. Barnard and Best had
been appointed to a provisional commit-
tee to seek affiliation for the branch. The
impression emerged that Bob Bethell, a
Launceston businessman who had stood
as a Liberal for the House of Assembly,
was a very significant figure in the
moves, and that the activity was less
rural and less spontaneous than had been
believed earlier.
Liberal and Labor leaders have re-
mained as reticent as the Country Party
chiefs. The Liberals frankly say that
they cannot be indifferent to the CP ad-
vent, which must affect their membership
and revenue, and will no doubt create
areas of political friction. But it will be
electorally advantageous. Each of Tas-
mania’s five Federal divisions returns
seven members to the House of As-
sembly under a system of proportional
representation. In Bass, Wilmot and
Braddon, all with considerable small-
farmer elements, Labor holds four seats
to the Liberals’ three. Country Party
candidates would assuredly cut into part
of the Liberal vote, but if they were
able to attract enough Labor supporters
to reduce the ALP vote to less than 50
per cent of the total, the combined
Opposition parties would gain an over-
all majority in the House.
PROGRESSIVE VICTORIA
ffij%uUetCn
November 18, 1882
Thus speaks a writer in a recent
number of the IMPERIAL RE-
VIEW, a Melbourne quarterly:—
“After all, what history have the
other provinces since Victoria sprang
up? They have been mainly engrossed
in business, leaving Victoria to fight
out all questions that rise to a higher
platform. Their histories are dull as
ditch-water. Ours is instinct with life
and movements on every page. Vic-
toria is the iron spear-head of Aus-
tralia. The other provinces may be
jointed into the wooden head of the
pike.” However unpalatable this may
be to New South Welshmen, it is dis-
gustingly true. Nearly all the great
political changes Australia has wit-
nessed were inaugurated in the land
of the BERRY blight—as rabid “Con-
stitutionalists” delight to sneeringly
call it. Its volcanic politics gave to
Victoria vote by ballot, manhood suf-
frage, land taxation, and something
like a comprehensive system of free,
secular and compulsory education.
When New South Wales starts a
change, it only copies from its
younger sister. Its politics run slav-
ishly in old worn-out grooves. It is
the best-formed Constitution for log-
rolling. Its system of centralisation
gives Ministers personal powers, com-
mands the votes of country “noses,”
and chokes political advancement.


UNIONS
INDEPENDENT BALLOTS
AND THE AEU
Engineering Union. End of a fine old colonial
practice
J. McDOWELL
Using his vote
npHERE w ; as general elation last w ; eek
among Labor and anti-Communist
unionists when the Full Bench of the
Commonwealth Industrial Court an-
nounced its decision on two matters
affecting Australia's second largest union,
the Amalgamated Engineering Union.
With 77.000 members the AEU was the
biggest prize which the Communist Party
possessed in the trade union movement
until February this year when in a ballot
conducted by the Commonwealth Elec-
toral Officer, Mr J. McDowell—an ALP
member from Queensland displaced
one of the two Communists on the
Union's three-man supreme body, the
Commonwealth Council.
Two ways exist of getting an inde-
pendent ballot in trade unions. One is
to get a petition signed by 1000 members
(or a tenth of the membership).
The other is to get a union com-
mittee to pass a resolution requesting
the Commonwealth Electoral Officer to
conduct the election. (This latter pro-
vision came in under Chifley legislation
in 1949.) The two non-Communists in
the AEU, non-party member Shearer and
ALP member McDowell, had used their
majority on the Commonwealth Council
for an independent ballot for the position
of Chairman of Commonwealth Council.
Naturally, this was bitterly resented
by the relatively large numbers of Com-
munists in the AEU and a fierce cam-
paign w'as whipped up to embarrass Mc-
Dowell and Shearer. A large number of
appeals against this action went to the
Union's parent body in England, the
Executive Council of the AEU, which
for reasons best known to itself, ordered
the Commonwealth Council not to hold
an independent ballot.
The Full Bench ruled on a question of
law that the billot had to be conducted
by the Electoral Officer.
The second and more important
matter which w'as under consideration
by the Full Bench was an action taken
by a Melbourne member of the Union,
Mr lan Parkes, asking the Court to
restrain the five members of the Com-
monwealth Council (two non-voting
members) from withdrawing their ap-
plication for the ballot after they had
acted under the direction from the
Executive Council in England. The Court
in this case gave its opinion that in effect
the unions parent body had no right to
tell the Commonwealth Council how it
should conduct its elections. This vir-
tually means the end of colonial control
fiom England. It also means that pro-
viding non-Communists have the
majority on the Commonwealth Council
in ballots for future positions there wall
be no risk of preventing Communists
or other members of the union from
retaining power by fake ballots.
Although the Commonwealth Council
is in the hands of non-Communists, the
District Secretaries, District Committees,
organisers and the Union’s head office
management are still effectively con-
trolled by members of the Communist
Party. In the union’s head office in
Sydney for instance, apart from the male
CP organisers there are six w'omen
members of the CP out of an office staff
of 18. Non-Communist members allege
that they can never make private calls
from the office or leave correspondence
lying about as they are virtually under
permanent surveillance from people with
hostile political views.
This high handedness is now causing
some heart-burning among members who
worked to have the leadership of the
union put in non-Communist hands.
Perhaps unfairly their main anger is
directed at Mr Colin Shearer, who, when
he took office about 18 months ago, was
looked on by ALP and National Civic
Council members alike as being the man
who would clean the Union up and make
it into an industrial union as opposed
to the Communist political tool it still is.
Cynics in industrial circles now say
that if the rest of his term of office is as
ineffective as it has been to date he may
not be opposed by a member of the
Communist Party when he comes up for
election. This is probably a malicious
exaggeration but it has some point to it.
MUGGA
THE MOTOR INDUSTRY
A LOOPHOLE IN THE TARIFF ACT
A different sort of test
IV/f akers of motor car parts have de-
cided to launch a test case against
one of Australia's leading vehicle manu-
facturers and say they have evidence
makers are banded together in the Fed-
eration of Automotive Products Manu-
facturers and say they have evidence
that local vehicle makers are using fewer
and fewer locally made parts to produce
their cars.
None of the local vehicle makers are
Australian firms all have world-wide
links which enable them to buy com-
ponents in the cheapest markets. They
are then able to have these parts imported
duty-free under the “By-Law” provision
of the Tariff Act.
There are well over a hundred firms
involved ia the parts industry in Aus-
tralia, the biggest being the Repco
group. The campaign which the Auto-
motive Products Manufacturers Federa-
tion has launched is one which will call
for diplomatic skills, if only for the
reason that it is a fight with their own
customers the vehicle makers.
Recently at its conference in Can-
berra, the Federation appealed to the
Federal Treasurer and the Trade De-
partment for action to curb the growing
import of parts. These, the Federation
claimed, have risen from <£,3.4m. in
July, 1961, to <£.B.sm in September,
1962.
It followed this up with an appeal for
a full-scale inquiry into the situation,
then, in Melbourne, last week the Fed-
eration's Executive Director, Mr L. B.
Archer, announced that a test case
would be launched against “one of
Australia's leading vehicle manufac-
turers.”
Mr Archer said that the company
involved had applied for duty-free “By-
Law” admission of some 382 parts items
on the grounds that these could not be
obtained locally at competitive prices.
The Federation will challenge this ap-
plication, said to involve a total of over
four million parts.
The Federation is also concerned at
the decline in the local truck-making in-
dustry. Ihe Chrysler company recently
announced it was abandoning local
truck production and today Australia is
assembling fewer such vehicles than
several years ago.
The Federation is throwing its main
weight into the auto parts issue, but it
has done well to spotlight the trucks
situation as well.


mm
' f k
IS
mm-*.
ZLjJitr"'*
u
.
- .
:*<*»
_ P‘l NT K
Hampao^^
Pink
for
girls
If she says “gorgeous”, “delightful”, “heavenly”,
chances are it’s Romalo Pink Champagne. A gay,
scintillating wine for joyous times ... for parties,
weddings and ever-so-special dinners for two.
All over the world sophisticates celebrate with Pink
Champagne. Australia’s finest is Romalo.
Trade Enquiries: S. Wynn & Co. Pty. Ltd.
348 St. Kilda Road, Melbourne
ALDERMEN
"PITTSBURGH", NEW SOUTH WALES
Mr. McDermott's Suspension
A nother veteran party member has
gone down in the intrigue-riddled
Greater Wollongong ALP; this time local
president of the AEU and South Wol-
longong ALP branch president, Mr
Harold McDermott.
The State Executive of the party recent-
ly suspended Mr McDermott for 12
months on charges of supporting Com-
munist candidates in the AEU's elections
early this year.
The long-delayed investigation by the
Disputes Committee and subsequent
State Executive decision could not have
come at a worse time for the union
official. He seemed to be all set to be
elected as alderman on the City of
Greater Wollongong Council at the
December elections. Several weeks ago
he surprised with an avalanche victory
in the ALP pre-selection ballot for Ward
Three the central Wollongong ward.
With the odds strongly in favor of
one ALP man gaining one of the three
aldermanic positions in Ward Three, Mr
McDermott appeared certain to take
a place on Council. But the suspension
came just prior to the closing of
nominations.
Strangely, the party had difficulty in
finding an alternate candidate, but,
finally, the newly-formed Municipal
Committee selected former Waterside
Workers’ Federation secretary Mr Jack
Stuart. No one from South Wollongong
branch volunteered for nomination.
The suspension of Mr McDermott —-
who in 1961 escaped expulsion by his
own branch by the casting of his own
vote is only one of many incidents in
the build-up to the local government
elections.
It has been said by many that Wol-
longong, with its large concentration of
heavy industries at Port Kembla, has
taken over from Pittsburgh (USA) as the
“dirtiest city in the world”. Now, Wol-
longong is experiencing one of its most
bitter and dirtiest Council elections.
The main target for most of the
mud-slinging is Alderman Albert Squires
an alderman for 12 years and mayor
for the past six. His esteem in the ALP,
which will face an uphill task to regain
control of Council, is extremely low.
But the party has no-one to replace him.
Outside of the party, his popularity is
at an all-time low. This is partly due to
the aerial patrol airstrip issue, which, if
delayed much longer could leave the
service unable to operate during the
vital summer months, and partly because
of the pressure piled on by the Rate
Relief Group and its mayoral candidate
Hall.
Hall has posed many embarrassing
questions as well as outspoken criticisms
and Squires appears to be cracking under
the constant strain. Already he has been
involved in damning incidents outside
council, concerning two newspaper
editors and a surfing official who is
contesting the elections.
Hall has threatened to lodge “certain
material” with the Local Government
Department, heedless of the risk of
such drastic and bitter action damning
him in the eyes of the public.
With so much public dissent against
the present Council, there almost certain-
ly will be several new faces around the
aldermen’s tables, and Aid. Squires will
find himself at the head of a Council
far less pliable than the present one.
TREVOR MURRELL.
WOMEN’S RIGHTS
WHEN MAYORS ARE LADIES
Invoking the UN charter
TVlelbourne’s Lord Mayor, Cr Maurice
Nathan, is in trouble for the second
successive year over the matter of women
mayors. Each year, as part of the
November social swirl, the Lord Mayor
holds his Annual Dinner and the guests
include all the metropolitan mayors. The
dinner is an all-male affair and the elec-
tion of women mayors in some munici-
palities has sparked off some incidents.
Last year an invitation to Cr Nathan’s
beano went to the Mayor of Mordialioc,
who proved to be a woman solicitor, Mrs
Shirley Burke. There were red faces
when Mrs Burke accepted and ultimately
the Lord Mayor preserved the mascu-
linity of his banquet by ungraciously
withdrawing the invitation to her.
1 his year, a wiser Cr Nathan noted
that Chelsea’s mayor was the well-known
ALP activist, Mrs Nola Barber. Instead
of sending Mrs Barber an invitation, he
sent a letter regretting his inability to
have her at the function and asking her
to send a male representative.
Mrs Barber refused to send a male
representative “on principle” and sent a
scorching letter to the Lord Mayor, re-
ferring among other things to the United
Nations’ Charter on women's rights,
The most spirited contribution to the
rQ w came from Miss Katie Eliot who
said that the custom of excluding women
f ro m these banquets arose from man’s
recognition of his own inferiority. ‘'ln
the old days, their manners, their eating
habits, and their gross drunkenness were
too coarse for the society of ladies.”
Later, men recognised that if no women
were present, they need not bother to
behave properly.
“Let us say it is a tradition and stick
to it,” the men decided.
Alas, the actual dinner was a very
dignified affair and sadly lacking in the
Bacchanalian sports which Miss Eliot
has envisaged. Not one ribald interjec-
tion interrupted the speeches of Cr
Nathan, Mr Bolte, Mr Harold Holt or
Sir Dallas Brooks.


Around Melbourne
THE CUP-SOME BOWLERS WERE LOW AND RAKISH
IT is all over but we can take con-
solation from the fact that the
object has been achieved, the
VRC, the garment trade, the Totalisa-
tor Agency Board and the hotels are
all infinitely richer. We have just fin-
ished our first festival of fashions,
flowers and favorites. Melbourne was
to be agog with a spirit of floral gaiety.
Actually it wasn’t quite that. It’s true
the Carlton United Brewery filled its
windows with hundreds of boxes of
pansies, poppies and what not, and this
dear brewery which has just declared
a profit of more than £2,500,000
looked a very kindly brewery. The
Towm Hall put out flower boxes for
its pigeons and we put flower boxes
in Collins Street.
Incredibly, though, we put them
only on the south side and then only
between Swanston Street and Eliza-
beth Street. Somehow they looked in-
congruous just placed there on the
pavement, and even more incon-
gruous when nobody watered
them and the flowers wilted and died.
There was a competition for the best
decorated buildings and you will be
pleased to hear that the mighty bank-
ing institutions of Collins Street
fought it out pelargonium for pelar-
gonium and pansy for pansy. The
National Bank of Australasia won
hands down. They brought in so many
orchids and exotic plants that the
banking chamber looked like the
main hot house at Kew Gardens. You
couldn’t write a pay-form without fal-
ling over a ranunculi. Then there
were all sorts of private battles. Drum-
monds the jewellers, in traditional
style, put the gorgeous three-handled
gold Melbourne Cup in the window.
(One of the few trophies you’d be
seen dead with.)
But Hardy Bros, next door, rather
caddishly I thought, fought back by
putting Australia’s finest diamond in
their window. Not quite as large as
the Cup, but it was superb and worth
£11,750. In the publicity stakes
Hardy’s won by the length of the
straight.
The Leveson St. Gallery had a
show titled “Homage to the Horse”.
Opened by the Chairman of the VRC,
Ross Grey Smith. Even though the
show included Australia’s most cele-
brated artists the chairman didn't feel
there was a horse there that looked
like a horse. The way some of the
bandages were applied they'd break a
leg at the first turn.
Wealthy folk say racing is a dying
sport, but if you have £2O loose in
your pocket it’s a lovely way to spend
the day and Flemington this year, with
acres of flowers, never looked so
beautiful. Mr Eugene Hayres of Mel-
bourne’s hiring out firm was disap-
pointed at the number of suits let out
this year. Too many of these Toorak
types had been borrowing from each
other instead of being decently inde-
pendent and hiring their suits. After
all, it’s only £5 for the black coat,
striped pants and grey waistcoat and
£1 for the grey topper. You see,
Flemington is the one Australian
stronghold of this dear old fashion.
Take Bill Edwards, the mighty tennis
and racing man from Brisbane. He
wouldn't for all the quids in the ring
dare to wear his morning suit at Eagle
Farm, but he likes to put it on at
Flemington.
/"|n Cup Day there w'ere almost as
many black bowlers as high top-
pers. What's more some of the bowlers
were low, streamlined and racy. As one
bowler explained to me: “It’s done to
wear a grey topper for the Derby, but
one can really get away with the
bowder on Cup Day.”
You may remember the garment and
tourist trades offered lush prizes for
the best and most economically
dressed ladies. There were prizes for
the best hat, the best “ensemble”
valued under £3O and the best
“ensemble” valued under £5O.
Some of us were aghast at this. Who
would dare to divide females into £3O
and £5O categories. What if you
picked a £5O lady as under £3O. or
even worse picked a lady w'ho had
paid more than that for her shoes
alone.
However, Mr Douglas Cox, the
Chairman of the Judging Panel, said
his judges were old hands in the gar-
ment trade, they could run an eye
over what a female had on and pick
the price to the nearest pound. The
judges went out in pairs to every sec-
tion of the course. (I beg your par-
don, they certainly did not go into
the Members’ section.) They spent
an hour looking anonymously at the
girls, then at 1 p.m. they put up notices
announcing that they were fashions
field judges. One could hardly have
achieved more notice if one had taken
off one's trousers. Immediately young
ladies began to strike casual, graceful
poses just like they're taught to do b}
Bambi Smith and all the best modelling
schools. Other ladies—by the sheerest
of coincidences you understand—
would pop up in front of the judges
six times in the space of 100 yards.
The system was this, when the
judges found an under 30 or under
50 they liked, they approached the
lady, handed her a card, asked her if
she would like to enter the competi-
tion and swear a statutory declaration
to the price of her “ensemble.” Some
ladies were all prepared before they
were even approached. They had the
prices of their coat, hat, gloves, frock,
and handbag already written down.
For example, there was the dear soul
who was running close to the maxi-
mum on her £3O. Asked the price of
her handbag she said her son won it.
for sixpence in a raffle.
So you see ladies are only too de-
lighted to have themselves assessed
financially from their bonnets to their
stiletto heels. There were very few
knock backs.
All in all, fashionwise, it was a huge
success. One could hardly put into
print the joy that was felt at the Wool
Board over the big double of Even
Stevens. As you know Even Stevens’
jockey, Les Coles, wore his woollen
“silks” for the two big cups and the
C. B. Fisher Plate and now most loyal
punting members of the Board are
much wealthier than they were a fort-
night ago.
But do you know what fascinated
me more than anything else?—the full
page newspaper advertisements which
revealed that every jockey in the Mel-
bourne Cup wore a Chesty Bond
athletic. No wonder Les Coles looked
so fresh and neat when he returned to
the scales in his woollen silks. At
that stage it had not occurred to us
that it w ; as all due to “the absorbencv
of his Chesty Bond athletic."
BATMAN


The Chairman
missed
the connection ~.
n
m
'
m. f
, but his company missed the bus!
When you or your representatives need to get there
fast, a business aircraft gets you there first, unham-
pered by delays. In the competitive situation of
modern commerce an aircraft can pay for itself in
one trip alone. Key prospects, too, appreciate the
prestige and convenience of a business aircraft for
meetings and inspections. Commercial aircraft
specialists at De Havilland, Australian distributors
for Beechcraft, can prove to you with case histories
and detailed costings the advantages a business air-
craft can bring to your company. Shown below are
some of the types of aircraft now available.
DE HAVILLAND'S RANGE OF BEECHCRAFT IS SPECIALLY DESIGNED TO MEET EVERY BUSINESS NEED
Super H 18: Features refreshment
har, toilet compartment. Seats
7 to 8. SPEED up to 233
m.p.h. RANGE over 1,450 miles.
Travel Air: Very economical fuel
consumption, carries 4 to 5
people. SPEED up to 210 m.p.h.
RANGE over 1,150 miles.
Queen Air 65: Seats 6 to 8.
Reclining chairs, toilet compart-
ment, built-in tables. SPEED up
to 239 m.p.h. RANGE over
1,200 miles.
\
Bonanza: World’s finest single-
engine business plane. Seats 4,
reclining chairs. SPEED up to
205 m.p.h. RANGE over 1,200
miles.
Twin Bonanza: Choice of
engines lets you vary power to
meet your needs. Seats 6 to 7.
SPEED up to 235 m.p.h.
RANGE 1,650 miles.
Debonair: Lands easily almost
anywhere! 4 place cabin, excel-
lent performance. SPEED up to
195 m.p.h. RANGE over 1,000
miles.
Baron: Fastest selling light twin
in the world. Seats 4 to 6.
SPEED up to 236 m.p.h.
RANGE over 1,200 miles.
/7
«*
© ©
Musketeer: Economical four-
seater. Maximum range exceeds
all other aircraft in its class.
SPEED 135 m.p.h. cruising.
RANGE over 800 miles.
There’s a Beechcraft for your business
Sole Australian distributor:
DE HAVILLAftD AIRCRAFT PTY. LTD.
(member company of the Hawker Siddeley Group)
Box 30. P.O. Bankstown. Milperra Road. Phone: 77-0111.


A BOOM
IN LIGHT
AIRCRAFT
Wanted: an aerial runabout for
£3000-£5000
By FRANK ROBERTS
Tn another 20 years or less, Australians
may use the air almost as much as
they now use the roads. The relatively
empty skies of 1962 are no better guide to
that future than the road traffic of 1942
was a pointer to the highway conditions
of today. The greater uncertainty is
whether we will travel in small vertical
take off tourers, light hovercraft, in-
expensive helicopters, or all three and
perhaps other aircraft which will compete
for popularity and mass sales.
Even in 1962 the skies are not as
empty as our distances make them seem.
We hear the airliners over the cities,
although there are fewer than 200 of
them in Australia. The nation’s graziers
fly more aeroplanes than the nation’s
airlines, but they take off from nearly
500 aerodromes scattered across the
country, and so do the owners of Aus-
tralia’s other 1100 light aircraft. That’s
why few people notice them.
If all converged over one city at one
time they would darken the sky, and if
the number of aircraft increases as rapid-
ly as motor registrations did in 1922-42,
such an eclipse is not as unlikely as it
sounds. There could be at least 15,000
’planes in the air by 1982, and even this
figure may be a gross under-estimate.
Some 50 years after such enthusiasts as
Houdini and J. R. Duigan made the first
powered flights in Australia, we have only
about 5700 licensed aviators. But we also
have 4500 people learning to fly, includ-
ing a number who have never driven a
car in their young lives, nor ever want to.
This is the real beginning of the Flight
Age.
Already, in today's limited numbers,
Australians are using light aircraft for
sport, business, agriculture, surveying,
whale spotting, prospecting, hunting and
fishing tours, holidays and honeymoons,
supplying the Outback, and spreading the
Gospel. And an increasing number of
air taxi services are springing up all over
the country.
So far about 30 companies have their
own aircraft, including Australian Iron
and Steel, Kraft Foods, numerous pas-
toral companies, Australian Blue Metal,
Thiess Bros., Lombard Aust., Gordon
Edgell and Sons, Australian Fertilisers,
Fletcher Jones and Staff, and Australian
Hardwoods.
One of the latest registrations among
them is the Fletcher Jones’ Cessna 320,
a twin-engined aircraft, turbo charged and
capable of altitudes to 18,000 feet, with
a cruising speed of 200 m.p.h., and
cruising range up to 1400 miles. Piloted
by a former RAAF and TAA captain, it
enables Mr Jones, his son, or other com-
pany executives to visit any of the 15
branches and be back at Warrnambool
headquarters the same day.
Many companies use light aircraft ex-
tensively but prefer to charter a plane
and pilot as required. Australia has
nearly 400 aircraft registered for charter,
including many owned by the numerous
Aero Clubs. For long business trips with
various stopping places a charter offers
the most flexible arrangements and a min-
imum of lost time.
Sometimes chartering can be equally
valuable on the more expensive short
hauls. A few months ago the Royal Aero
Club of NSW was called on in late after-
noon to hustle a businessman to Can-
berra and back in haste whicn the airline
schedules could not accommodate. The
Club provided an experienced pilot and
one of its modern fleet of Pipers, Chip-
munks and Cessnas, and the charter was
completed well inside the time. It cost
about eight times the airline fare, but as
a big deal had depended on it, the cus-
tomer was more than satisfied.
Many more companies are certain to
use light aircraft in the Soaring Sixties,
but the real boom is in private flying and
flying for recreation, as signified by the
4500 learners who would almost double
the number of licensed pilots if all com-
plete their training. Most want to fly for
pleasure or sport, and will be added to
the present 3500 with private flying
licences rather than to the 1100 com-
mercial licences which require twice as
much training, or to the elite 1100 air-
line pilots.
And there would be many more flying-
for-fun learners if they could afford the
training. Earlier this year 670 young
South Australians applied for one £3OO
scholarship allowing the winner, an 18-
year-old station overseer, to train to pri-
vate licence standard and pilot a plane
for pleasure. The runner-up was an Ade-
laide television station hostess.
In comparison only 723 Australians
aged 17 to 30 applied for about 150 of
the Federal Government’s new Austra-
lian Flying Scholarships when they were
offered for the first time this year. But
these were for intending career pilots
and the applicants needed at least 30
hours flying time and a high standard of
education to be eligible. The winners,
from five States and New Guinea, still
have to pay 30 per cent —or about £3OO
—towards the cost of their training to
commercial licence standard.
These scholarships will be good incen-
tive for more young men to fly their first
30 hours—cost, about £lso—and try for
an aviation career. That incentive could
add another 1000 or so to the number of
learners in the next 12 months.
If the desire to fly is as strong as the
will to drive a car was at the beginning
of the Motor Age, the costs are
not comparable. Aero Club and flying
school fees for training range from £3
to £6 an hour, and only Government sub-
sidies have prevented them being higher.
In a future with cheaper, more foolproof
types of aircraft, consuming much le sS
fuel, it may become possible to learn


TOP BIRD ON THE TOTEM POLE
te ; fwßEiicS4« 1
CHEROKEE
ll:
mm
m
m
:
rill
m.
m
©l
5 •-•
I m
m
I
>s
I
111
m
xSsi
111
Si
/ W
r s
OF THE
SVtflH 6
TO
to^
W» HG
With 3 Models in the Cherokee B Range
ISO H.P. STANDARD
* £5,995
160 H.P. BRAVE
* £6,995
* Flyaway Archerfield.
180 H.P. CHIEF
* £7,995
Conventmt (Ms* «r payment plan available
PIPER AIRCRAFT AUSTRALIA PTY.
9 {Division of Commerc* international Pty. Ltd.)
235 EDWARD STHECT, BRISBANE
Rp«f Aireuft, 8o» 220. Banksicwn. -N.S.W. • WtiMir Piper Sates, Oufcbo, N.S.W. • Hazair
Sanica. Orango, .N.S.W. • Pipeair Pty. Lid., Jtox 9, Cheifeoham, Vic, • United Aviation Lid,,
S.A. • Mitfard o'Suttt>'an Aviaiicn. 2OT Stirling Street, Perth. W.A. A TrousdeH-A
foo-woomba • Air Pipe' Pty. Ltd., Bundaberg-Rockhampion • Northern Plying School Piy. Li
LTD.
Agricultural
Hangar 58,
if P+Y„' 'Lid.,'
td., Maciay
TO PIPER AIRCRAFT AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
Please forward your free illustrated brochure:
Name
Business Address
PA-21
from a friend in quick time. But now,
on the threshold of the Flight Age, some
enthusiasts take months running into
years to gain their flying hours and their
licences.
Apart from cost, there are not enough
’planes available yet. Our present 10,000
licensed and student pilots have to share
a very limited number of aircraft. Of
about 1500 on the Civil Aircraft Regis-
ter, several hundred are for private use,
including the 200 belonging to country
properties, while about 180 are airliners.
Most of the remainder are used for crop
sowing, dusting or spraying, charter
work, carrying supplies to remote places,
and less frequently for flying training. A
good proportion of them are stationed in
or near the Outback, including the fleets
of 10 or more owned by such organisa-
tions as Connellan Airways, NT, Bush
Pilots Airways in Queensland, and the
Flying Doctor Service.
This year we will import about 200
aircraft, more than ever before, but most
of them will go into commercial use, or
to private ownership. Flowever during
the first six months of 1962 about 20 of
the new ’planes were purchased by the
Aero Clubs, including several which were
buying their first aircraft. If that trend
continues to the end of 1962, it will mean
a 20 per cent increase during one year
in both the number of Aero Clubs and
the total Clubs fleet throughout Austra-
lia. And this will be the greatest surge
towards “popular” flying in many years,
because units of the Royal Federation of
Aero Clubs of Australia have been, and
possibly always will be, the places where
most of our pilots first take to wing.
If the Aero Clubs, at present number-
ing 44 in all States and New Guinea,
finish the year with 50 clubs and nearly
250 aircraft, they will still be battling to
meet the coming demand for flight train-
ing. They could use twice as many
planes, but could not afford them, at
prices which take off where the Rolls
Royce car reaches its ceiling.
A good aerial runabout manufactured
in Australia for £3-5000 could sell well
and would be a blessing to the Aero
Clubs and their learners. The Victa Air
Tourer, at £4OOO up, is the most promis-
ing of a long run of attempts to make a
low cost Australian 'plane, and the clubs
nnd many potential private owners at
that price are watching its paces hope-
fully.
Meanwhile the Aero Clubs are totalling
op to 100,000 training hours a year—
more hours than the major airlines fly
commercially and more than any other
civilian flying organisation overseas, with
the exceptions of those in Canada and
Russia.
The Aero Club movement was laun-
ched here in 1914 by officers of the
Australian Flying Corps, but naturallv


recessed until 1919 when Clubs were
formed in most capital cities. They were
valuable in 1939 when the largest be-
came elementary flying schools for the
RAAF. After the war the Clubs were
able to buy numerous Tiger Moth
trainers at disposals prices and flying be-
came accessible to many more people.
From 57,000 to 83,000 hours
Tndicating the swift growth during the
Fifties, aircraft of the Royal Federa-
tion of Aero Clubs flew 57,000 training
hours in 1955-56, and 83,000 hours in
1959-60, the equivalent of training for
1000 private licence pilots. The Clubs
managed this with about 200 aircraft
ranging from Tiger Moths up to a two-
engined Cessna 310 owned by the Roval
Aero Club of NSW, fully instrumented
for training pilots up to airline standards.
This year the training hours are expected
to top 100,000.
Aero Club flying has been increasingly
subsidised by the Federal Government
until this year, when its basis of support
was altered. Formerly the Government
subsidised each training hour to some
extent, helped with aircraft replacement
costs, and received unique value for every
penny it provided. In this big movement,
with its tens of clubs, hundreds of aircraft
and thousands of members throughout
Australia, only the instructors and mech-
anics are paid. The rest of the effort is
voluntary.
This year, with the Australian Flying
Scholarships, the Government partly
altered its support, by turning more than
£lOO,OOO of the subsidy to this new train-
ing scheme. But as the Aero Clubs will
be paid for training most of the scholar-
ship pilots, it will not be a total loss. The
Aero Clubs have been valuable to the
nation as the trainers of most of the com-
mercial pilots and many of the airline
pilots, but it is a fact that most of their
members are virtually engaging in a
sport, and few sports are heavily subsi-
dised by the Government, including the
several which make our name overseas.
That can be one view. The Aero Clubs
can also claim that without sporting
members they could not train commer-
cial pilots to a high standard in costly
aircraft and, as in Victoria, with Link
trainers as well. They can also quote the
many instances when the simple exis-
tence of Aero Club planes and pilots in
the country has saved lives.
Last July, for example, two Victorian
Electricity Commission linesmen were
burned when their truck touched an
11,000 volt line between Echuca and
Swan Hill. They needed urgent city hos-
pital treatment but the Aerial Ambu-
lance was on another call at Sale. Thanks
to a charter company’s Cessna and the
Mid-Murray Flying Club’s Piper air-
craft, the two men were rushed to Mel-
bourne in time.
The Tasmanian Aero Club at Launces-
ton provides an essential Flying Doctor
aircraft service for Flinders Island in
Bass Strait, this year with night flying
instruments paid for by the Federal Gov-
ernment. And the Clubs can claim many
other services, from voluntary bushfire
spotting in NSW to emergency aircraft
servicing in the far country areas.
Light aircraft use in the outback is
increasing as quickly as money can be
found. Between the Royal Flying Doctor
Service and several Church Medical Ser-
vices and various State Ambulance
Transport Boards, more than 20 ’planes
are available for inland medical work.
Flying Padres also cover huge inland
parishes with the help of aircraft. Mr
Esrom Morse of the Missionary Avia-
tion Fellowship at Longreach visits sta-
tions in a 250,000 square mile stretch
of Australia's most lonely country, where
some of the people had never seen a
minister until his Cessna touched down
the first time, 18 months ago.
The Missionary Aviation Fellowship
also uses several Cessnas in New Guinea,
where a variety of aircraft including two
of the remaining handful of flying boats
are based for missionary work. And
next month the ministers of four
Churches in Newcastle, NSW, plan to
take to the air in a chartered ’plane and
shower the city with leaflets stressing the
Christian side of Christmas.
These are sidelights on the many uses
of light aircraft in 1962, and most
unusual of them will seem fairly ordinary
a few years from now. It will no longer
be news when an Australian is born°in
a speeding plane, as a 91b girl was re-
cently while her mother was being flown
to Meekatharra Hospital. Or when an
aircraft is stolen and flown on a 700 mile
joyride, as happened in Western Austra-
lia earlier this year. Or when 30 men in
10 aircraft fly halfway around Austra-
lia on an “air safari”, mixing business,
hunting, fishing and sightseeing, as a
squadron of Victorians did in September.
The women pilots believe that flying is
one activity where they will outdo men
and one of their number, Dr Rutherford
of Sydney, is among the best aerobatics
experts in Australia. Women are also re-
spected for their nerve in the other air
sports which take plenty of it—gliding
and soaring, parachuting and sky diving.
Sky diving is just that. It is the com-
petitive side of parachuting, requiring a
few thousand feet of free fall before you
open the 'chute and come down as close
as you can to the bull's-eye of a target on
the ground. The practice has a serious
application in the forming of trained Air
Rescue squads, ready to jump to the scene
of any number of possible emergencies
in otherwise inaccessible places.
Most air enthusiasts prefer to stay with
their ’planes, whether one of the gliders
flown by the 1000 or so members of Aus-
tralia’s 36 gliding clubs, or one of the
250 Tiger Moths still in service, or some-
thing bigger. No one has had to para-
chute from a civil plane in recent years,
and in the 20 to 30 crash landings which
occur each year it is usual for the pilot
to walk away from the aircraft with only
a few scratches. Flying is safer than
driving, possibly because flyers have to
wear safety belts.
The worst light aircraft crash this year
occurred in Western Australia where a
grazier, J. G. Money, was killed when
his Percival Proctor VS spun into the
ground. The Department of Civil Avia-
tion has decided, on the record, to refuse
certificates of airworthiness to Proctor
VS and five other types of aircraft with
a certain glue in their wooden frames,
after December 1963. The DCA has
ordered their 28 owners to refrain from
carrying passengers, and has suggested
they ground the ’planes altogether. One
of the affected owners is Lord Casey who
has flown a Miles Messenger from his
property at Berwick for many years. The
DCA has one of the strictest concep-
tions of airworthiness in the world, as
some Australians have learned after buy-
ing strange little ’planes overseas, flying
them home, and then finding themselves
grounded.
7500 miles in a Piper Comanche
man who delivered a light aircraft
to Australia this year placed its air-
worthiness beyond doubt by flying 7500
miles from San Francisco to Brisbane in
only three hops, in a single-engined Piper
Comanche. The last person to fly the
Pacific on one engine was Sir Charles
Kingsford Smith in 1934.
Most of the light aircraft being impor-
ted are Pipers and Cessnas, with the tri-
cycle landing gear which has replaced the
two front and one tail-wheel and made
flying safer. That fixed one of the big
barriers to popular flying, but the biggest
one remains. The aircraft cost thousands
of pounds more than most people can
afford, and even those rich enough are
often deterred by the running costs, which
include the DCA periodic check, hangar
building or rental, maintenance, deprecia-


!_□ IDEAL FOR PERSONAL,
EXECUTIVE OR CLUB FLYING
Outperforming anything in its class, the all-metal Victa Airtourer 100 marks an important step forward for
Australian light aircraft users.
To its strength, quality, comprehensive equipment and superior performance are added the benefits of
Australian manufacture and the backing of the whole resources of the Commonwealth-wide Victa Group.
Complete construction and performance specification is available from the Victa Aviation Division. Forward
order placing is recommended.
m
Hf
pj
T?*,
3=»
:**!*!.
€BS
:|H|5
|M<>
Iff
so:
3B®
Hi
CO
ii
' V - v^.
m
BH
■
m
m
m
»§§««
■
mm
-,.
AMOURCRIOO
STANDARD
PRICE
Includes overall paint scheme
ViCTA AVIATION DIVISION
HORSLEY RD., MILPERRA, N.S.W. TEL: 77 0122. A UNIT OF THE VICTA GROUP • SYDNEY = MELBOURNE » BRISBANE » ADELAIDE
PERTH


A
mum
i
■-—^
r
mum
v
aCL-2K.>
Use either team for the same selling
job - but Cessna can save you £££’s
per annum!
We can and will prove this statement to
your complete satisfaction. Ask our
representative to call and explain to you
how one salesman, in one Cessna air-
craft, can do the work of many car-
driving salesmen . . t and still save
you money!
m :
:r .
Interested? Mail this advertisement to us
on your letterhead ... or telephone
REX AVIATION LIMITED , P.O. Box 51,
Bankstown, N.S.W. Tel. 70 0661; also
BRISBANE * ADELAIDE • PERTH
NEW ZEALAND: Rural Aviation Limited,
New Plymouth.
R 1
essna
tion, and fuel —all at high cost compared
with running the best of cars.
It is just as certain that the pressure
from more and more learners will topple
the price barrier in time. There is a
trend towards ultra light aircraft manu-
facture in England and France. There
are several “buy the kit and build it your-
self'’ aircraft available overseas, and
although some of these have been
quickly rejected by the DCA, others have
been declared airworthy after modifica-
tion, and some have been approved
immediately.
An education officer at Port Moresby,
Mr Albert Baglee, has built and flown a
British Dart “Kitten” weighing only 880
lbs. fully loaded and costing him £BOO.
Recently he dismantled it, shipped it to
Brisbane, and put it together again for
use during his long service leave. With
a cruising speed of 66 m.p.h. and a range
of 300 miles, this kind of ultra light
’plane may be the beginning of the
breakthrough.
Or some Henry Ford may suddenly
appear, in Brisbane for instance, and give
Australian flyers their T Model. In Bris-
bane an Army officer, Major Bonner, has
built a H- ton “runabout hovercraft”
designed to carry his family skimming
over Moreton Bay at 50 m.p.h. Aerodyn-
amics engineers have examined it with
some enthusiasm.
The popular aircraft could as easily be
one with the hovercraft, vertical take-
off or helicopter principles greatly simpli-
fied, or even a family size flying saucer.
It will come, from somewhere, and in
many ways that is a frightening thought.
If there are so many accidents on defined
roads, how many will there be in the
open air? If you are building from now
on, perhaps a reinforced concrete
roof ?
The Flight Age has one other possible
machine for a population keen on wings.
A British industrialist has offered £5OOO
to the first man to fly a figure 8 mile in
a self-powered aircraft. So far, no suc-
cesses, although men in several countries
are pedalling furiously to drive propellers
or rotor blades which, in some instances,
have at least lifted them off the ground
for short flights. One of the contenders
is Barry Ranford, 28, of Rossmoyne,
WA, in a 3501 b machine which to date
has clung to mother earth with grim
determination. But, after all, they
laughed at the Wright Brothers.
Remembering events at Kittyhawk, it
may occur to someone that flying took
off from that point into bigger and faster
aircraft, instead of towards smaller,
lighter personal aircraft. If something re-
sembling a box kite powered by what
sounds like a sewing machine engine
putters over your place one weekend, it
may be someone going back to the be-
ginnings of flying to find its new future.


OUT AND ABOUT
IN THE SHADE OF
THE YUM YUM TREE
"It you have something to sell , there's always someone to buy."
By PATRICIA ROLFE
Mr Digby Wolfe said to come
and see him between the late
afternoon and evening show of
“Under the Yum Yum Tree,” in which
he is starring at Sydney’s Theatre Royal.
“We’ll have plenty of time to talk
then,” he promised.
At twenty past seven he came off-stage.
“What a show!” he said, sitting in front
of his dressing-room mirror. “No one
there. This is just an experiment, the late-
afternoon show,” he explains. He offers
drinks and cigarettes to the several people
in the dressing-room, and orders a meal
on a tray. When it comes he doesn’t eat
it. He offers a suit —“I’ll never wear it
again'’—to someone about six inches
more round the chest than he is. (He is
less than average height, but neat and
quick). He has a few words with his
dresser, who is methodically folding red
socks and stuffing them in a drawer. He
drinks a bottle of Coca Cola and adds the
empty to the line of empty king-size
cokes behind the floral curtain on the
window, which is closed.
“Now,” he says, all this business over,
“What do you want to know? That’s the
idea. Interview the interviewer. Alfred
Hitchcock told me that’s what you should
do. Alfred Hitchcock, that’s name-
dropping for you, if you like. The other
day I had someone here who was going
to Mildura. Mildura —that’s place-name
dropping, if you like. Who'd go to Mil-
dura? Well, dear, what do you want to
know”
A scream comes from the wardrobe.
Digby, you know this isn’t your hat!”
l ‘Yes, I know.”
You pinched it at the Press party the
other night. I know who it belongs to.”
It was left behind. And I’m not giving
it back. It's just right for this part. It's
terribly hard to find a hat that’s a bit
small and still fits you,” he explains,
trying the hat for size. “If my head is
ig, it s always been big. If I'm conceited
now, Ive always been conceited. I had
another hat, a perfect herrenvolk hat,
and one of those Melbourne University
students pinched it. Not one of the anti-
hanging committee. Just one of the
students. I’ve been down to Richard
unts but they haven’t another like it.”
“You’ve only got 20 minutes, Digby,
aren’t you going to eat?”
He shrugs no. “I sent a contribution to
The Bulletin,” he says, turning to me.
“Against hanging. Did you get it yet?
No? Well, it should arrive tomorrow
morning. It’s an imaginary interview be-
tween a public servant and someone
who's applied for the job of hangman.
That's the thing about hanging. Someone
has to apply for the job. After all, you
can't very well advertise it, can you?
Do you know what George Bernard
Shaw said about hanging. Don't abolish
hanging. Abolish the hangman. Surpris-
ingly, Shaw himself wasn't against hang-
ing. Forgive me for saying this, but it
was the women in Victoria who wanted
Tait to hang. Hanging is too good for
him, they say. The lash. The lash!”
“Have some dinner, Digby, darling.”
“No, I haven’t got time now. I'm on
in 10 minutes. I have to change. But
you won’t go, dear, will you? You don't
mind underpants, do you, dear? I'm only
on stage for a little while hand me
that dressing-gown—then I'm on again
for 35 seconds, then I have a long rest.
We can talk then.” He begins to tidy up
his make-up and to tidy up a running
conversation which might have been
running since the opening night. “No,
I don’t go for that he-man Hemingway
stuff, but one thing I will say for Heming-
way, he’s a good story-teller. Better than
Somerset Maugham, who's got such a
reputation. I was in some Maugham plays
and the dialogue! Would you believe it?
Someone actually said, Who's for
tennis?’ Don’t you go, dear. I'll only be
a little while. When I come back, we’ll
talk.”
He reappears within minutes. “Who’s
for tennis?’’ he demands. “Imagine
putting that in a play.” He takes a
stethoscope out of his pocket and puts
it in a drawer. “This play has more props
than any I’ve ever been in. I'm not really
doing the part right, but it’s all right,
really.”
“Digby, darling, you’re wonderful.”
“Acting is only an interpretative art.”
he offers. “You know that on the 15th
of May, 1935, John Gielgud gave what
might have been the best ever perfor-
mance of Hamlet, but there were only
800 people there to see it, so what odds?
Nobody else will ever know how good
he really was. You know Shaw hated
actors? Do you know what he said about
them? An actor creates nothing. But a
writer Look, I've got to go back
on stage now, dear, but don't go. When
I come back we’ll get together. I know
this is pretty terrible for you, but it
might be worse. You might be interview-
ing Eric Baume.”
When he comes back he begins
methodically rechecking the red socks
and sipping cola. “I believe in the im-
portance of the relationship between men
and women,” he says, as much to his
own reflection as to the room. ‘"And for
that matter in the importance of the
relationship between men and men. Or
women and women. What else is there
in life? Of course, there is bravery, but
that's another story.
“No, I've just got to do a little bit
on stage here, but don't you go, will you?
What do you want to know? Interview
the interviewer, that’s the idea. Someone
told me that once. Who was it? 1 forget.”
He picked up a cheroot, another prop,
and lights it off his cigarette. “Over-
simplification—that’s the curse of the
age,” he says as an exit line.
The crowd in the dressing-room has
drifted off and Mr Wolfe is on stage
for some time. Bursts of laughter and
applause come from the stage at reassur-
ing intervals. There is time now to ex-
amine the good-luck telegrams pasted on
the walls —happy histrionics from Bob
and Dolly . . . Best wishes from the


Edgell family of fine foods • and the
yum yum tree of gold paper, blossoming
with chocolate-bars, a present from the
people Mr Wolfe worked with on tele-
vision.
“This is interval,” he says, when he
comes back. “Alone at last. Now what
do you want to know? I'll tell you some-
thing about myself. I began on the stage
in London 13 years ago in the ‘Young
Elizabethans.’ I was Robert Dudley, so
you can tell how big the part was. But
after a couple of years in doublet and
hose I decided to try something else. I
got a spot in a revue, ‘lntimacy at 8.30.’
Do you know how much I was paid for
that? Twenty pounds a week.
“One day I went to one of those little
private clubs, bop clubs they were called
then, and I talked the man into letting
me put on a show. Write it myself and
all. It wasn't that chi chi sort of satire
about Lady Docker and so on. If I had
done anything about the Dockers I would
probably have done Sir Bernard, you
know. The Friday after it opened I got
an offer to go to the Embassy club. With-
in a week I had a BBC national TV
show. I bought myself a small flat, a
small car and three suits. Within six
months I had sold the car, the flat and
two of the suits and I was sleeping in
St. James’s Park.
"Would you believe the same thing
happened to me three times in six years?
BBC TV show, then back to the park
within six months. But. of course, it was
not always St James’s Park. I slept in 138
places during my theatre years in Lon-
don. Moonlight flits, everything. And I
had two years in Paris where I did a
night-club act, too. I used to begin:
‘Ladies and gentlemen, and those who
haven't yet decided . . .’ It broke them
up every time. In my French.
“Then I went to South Africa to a big
new hotel, the Eden Roc in Durban. I
was still writing my own stuff and I
slipped in a couple of new gags. I had
Verwoerd’s slogan as ‘l’m all white,
Jack, and I said, ‘I don't know how you
feel about the color bar, but I think it’s
a crime showing black and white movies
together. Do you know the next morning
at seven someone, armed with a gun, a
gun, mind you, was at my door. They
gave me seven days to get out of the
country. Seven days, that was too long.
I left the same day. I won't go back there.
Not unless I've got a gun.
"They're all the same over there, even
the liberals. Underneath they all feel
much the same way. Would you like
me to write a satiric piece for The
Bulletin about the White Australia
policy?
“Anyway I got an offer to come here
for three months. When I went home I
was bombarded with cables to come back
to Australia. I think that with Revue ’6O
we did make some contribution. We
developed a frame of taste within which
future producers will have to work. But
now it's all gone. It’s shattering really ”
He goes on stage for the second act
and when he comes back he takes it up
just where he left off.
“I like TV. I'm as happy working in it
as in anything else. It's essentially a sopo-
rific. You know that never at any one
time do you have the attention of 100
per cent of your audience. You know
that you must plan your programme so
that the viewers can go away and make a
cup of tea and come back to find they
haven’t missed a thing.
“I don't feel unhappy in TV, although
I never feel extended. I would like very
much to write again ... I don’t worry
about the sort of personality that has
been developed for me in TV here. When
I came Bobby Limb and Dawn Lake had
the happy young married image, Bob and
Dolly Dyer were the more middle-aged
married couple, Graham Kennedy was
the controversial figure—either you loved
him or hated him. There wasn't anything
much left for me except the happy, care-
free bachelor, driving fast cars and trying
to get as many girls into the cot as 1
could . . .
“The average interviewer for TV
columns isn’t interested in what you are
like or what you say. They just want you
to keep to your pattern. I watch them
taking notes during interviews. I am
saying one thing and they are busily
writing down another . . . The usual
way it works is to build you up and up.
then to begin steadily to chop you down
again.
“I don't think that if you are in TV
you can afford to have a different per-
sonality away from 'the cameras. You
have to be the same always. When people
come up to me in the street and say
Hello, Digby, I always say ‘Hello’ right
back.
“I don't worry about the uncertainties
of entertainment work, about earning a
lot sometimes and not much other times.
At least, 1 don’t think I worry more
than other people. Now, you, do you
have financial problems? No? Do you
have emotional problems? No? You're
not much of an extrovert, are you?
Anyway, I’ve just got the sort of pro-
blems most other people have. As for the
future. I believe 'that if you have some-
thing to sell, there'll always be someone
to buy. And I believe I have something
to sell.”
He is silent now for a few minutes. He
has been nearly six hours giving a non-
stop performance on-stage and in the
dressing-room and is beginning to flag.
But only a little. Apparently, he can
give almost endlessly of his time, his
opinion, of himself. He is immensely
likeable, and, apparently, is very well
liked. Jf it seems remarkable to others
that he can simultaneously appear in
Melbourne in a typical dig-in-the-ribs
Williamson farce and work enthusiasti-
cally for Tait’s reprieve, it seems to him
totally unremarkable. There may seem
to others to be a schizophrenic quality
about him, but he knows exactly how
his personality is split and how to put
the pieces together so that the joins won't
show. “Digby, we believe you are a
mutation,” says one of the telegrams
pasted on the wall.
He makes for the stage again. ”1 have
to go now,” he says, “for the last little
bit. But come back tomorrow. Come
back for the matinee. Come back and
I'll tell you how I once tried mescalin.
You know, lysergic acid. You’ve read
Aldous Huxley’s The Doors of Percep-
tion?’ Well, Raymond Chandler and
Kenneth Tynan you know Kenneth
Tynan? and Kingsley Amis, no, not
Kingsley Amis, Kingsley Martin and I
tried it for a series for Picture Post.’
Come back tomorrow and I'll tell you all
about it.”
CHARACTERS WHICH ARE
LARGER THAN LIFE
Michael Powell begins to line up the weird mob for film
By CHARLES HIGHAM
jypc-HAEL Powell, together with David
x Lean and Carol Reed, the most ac-
complished of English film directors, is
in Sydney to scout locations and studio
space for “They're a Weird Mob,” from
John O Grady's best-selling book: shoot-
ing will begin next February, a month
before Karel Reisz’s “Ned Kelly” starts
to roll at Sofala, NSW. O’Grady’s flat-
tering reportage will feature an Italian
star as Nino Culotta, the book's Aust-
ralophile narrator: probably Alberto
Sordi, Vittorio Gassman, or that pre-
vious visitor to Australia (occasion: “On
the Beach,” purpose: Ava Gardner)
Walter Chiari.
A medium-sized, happy-looking man
in his fifties, Powell began as an inde-


v ;./*
I A
si
■HELL
%Xifi ifiiiik
fU'-Hii
mil
'■ ~
w
■ .* :
' -'*■■■
£Ol
SYDMEy
b ßisbane
To! ‘n>,a AJ .
A personal kit
of travel aids
ewering- your tour
With i/u iiimf>!imn\l>
»f ymr Sin I! I train-
mm®
mm m m
mmmmmd
Yours for the asking...
a complete Shell Touring Kit
No holiday motorist should be without one. Before you go, be sure to get
your Shell Touring Kit, specially made up to cover your itinerary. Tell your
Shell Dealer where you plan to go and he’ll obtain a kit containing the kind of
touring aids illustrated above: latest state maps, fully-detailed and easy to
read; descriptive booklets listing scenic and historical landmarks along main
roads; tour booklets for enjoyable day and half-day drives; environs maps
covering areas close to capital cities; special maps for areas of particular
interest; in addition you will receive up-to-date reports on road conditions,
lists of motels, camping grounds, caravan parks, etc.
It you have children, Shell will include passports which will be stamped by
Shell Dealers wherever you go as a permanent record of the trip. And don’t
lorget to ask for Shell’s colourful picture cards. There’s an album at a nominal
cost to keep them in.
just ask your Shell Dealer
SHELL
BT62I3


f
& 6
Why can’t I play with Jenny
today?”
This little girl may never see her playmates again. For suddenly she is
fatherless and she must move .. . and the security and comforts she once
knew can no longer be hers.
Her father believed his protection was enough. He could not visualise the
heartbreak and financial burden that would exist if, suddenly, he were
not there.
Losing a parent is tragedy enough for children. But need there be added
the loss of home friends and playmates the happy progress at school?
An M.L.C. policy not only provides for the future it’s a definite saving
and you also benefit from regular bonuses and valuable tax concessions.
Can your family face the future alone? Plan now for your children’s
continued prosperity. The ALL.C. can guide and advise you providing
an Insurance Policy which gives more than adequate coverage.
1
THE MUTUAL LIFE AND CITIZENS 9
ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
and tor fire and general insurancs
THE M.L.C. FIRE AND GENERAL
INSURANCE COMPANY PTY. LT3
MLC 693
pendent film maker in the early 1930'5,
after working with the celebrated Rex
Ingram on that now half-forgotten classic,
“Mare Nostrum.” With Emeric Press-
burger (w'ho collaborated with him on
production and script for many years)
Powell made a beautiful semi-documen-
tary in the Outer Hebrides, “Edge of the
World”, worked on the major spectacular
sequences of Alxander Korda’s “Thief of
Bagdad,” and directed some of the big
prestige productions of the 1940'5: “The
Life and Death of Colonel Blimp,” “Stair-
way to Heaven”, “The Red Shoes”, and
“Gone to Earth”, from Mary Webb’s
novel about the evils of fox-hunting,
His “Black Narcissus” won an Oscar
for color camerawork and so did “Thief
of Bagdad”: most of the films were
notable for their sumptuous visuals, deli-
berate artificiality, and stylised sets —
Powell remains one of the cinema’s great
technical innovators. It may seem a far
cry to “They're a Weird Mob”, but
Poweil has always had a simpler side:
his “One of Our Aircraft is Missing”, “I
Know Where I’m Going”, and “The Small
Back Room” were mostly rather quiet
and simple in mood, featuring realistic
people and situations.
Unofficially, Powell has talked about
''They're a Weird Mob” with Arnold
Wesker, but it’s probable he will write
the script himself: John O'Grady, of
course, will sit in to check accuracy of
presentation. The production is to be in
black-and-white (color. Powell thinks,
blunts the edge cf comedy) and made on
rather a small budget—about £150,000
to £200,000. An Irish friend recommend-
ed the book to Powell, who liked it at
once: when Gregory Peck's film option
expired, he took an option on it himself.
The first two reels will be made in
Italy, with the leading Italian producer,
Dino de Laurentis, in charge to ensure
release on the all-important Italian mar-
ket; the rest of the film is to be made
entirely in Sydney, using only Italian or
Australian players and some actual
laborers in the supporting cast.
“The marvellous thing about the
book,” Powell said, “is that the charac-
ters are larger than life in a way which
reminds you of the Hollywood films of
20 and more years ago—‘Ruggles of Red
Gap', for instance. 1 want very much to
suggest the city behind the buildings—■
how it’s booming—and how the Italians
share in this expansion. The underlying
idea of the film will be that a man who
can build a house can build something
larger—a nation.”
Talking about the characters again,
Powell said: “They're very fine —there
are about six really well-rounded people.
We're going to develop little anecdotes
into full-length sequences—particularly
the one where the mother says to the
boy, a second generation Australian,
something like ‘Wh> don't you speak
English?' That suggests all kinds of possi-
bilities to me.”
Over coffee and brandy, Powell talked
about his plans following “They’re a
Weird Mob”: he has several in the works,
all very characteristic of him. The first is
a musical, scored by Peter Racine Fricker,
with Stanley Baker in the lead, to be set
in Ireland (the title, oddly enough, is to
be “One-MC-”) and the second a war
film in the tradition of Powell's box-office
hit “The Battle of the River Plate”, an
adaption of Larry Forrester's “The Battle
of the April Storm’’, about HMS “Glow-
worm's'’ sinking of the Hipper in World
War 11.
At 56, then, with still more productions
in mind, Powell is full of ambitions, off-
beat plans (he hasn't made any really
important films for several years), and
“They're a Weird Mob”, successfully
handled, may well provide him with a
much-needed comeback.


AN IDEAL XMAS GIFT
Keep Your Personal Papers SAFE
THE
HOME
UNITIZES
Price: 45/- N.S.W. (Postage Paid);
48/- interstate; 50/- (Postage Paid)
W.A. and N.T.
Attractively finished in book binders’ cloth,
this handy portable Home Unitizer will keep
all yc-ur personal and important documents
neatly and safely—ready for quick reference.
It has twelve compartments and comes com-
plete with printed tags for 72 various titles,
such as Medical, Dental, Rates, Car Expenses,
Insurance, Taxation, Banking, Receipts, etc.
Strongly made for long wear. The Home
Unitizer makes an ideal gift with real utility
value. Size 15>/ 2 in. x 11 in. x 3 in.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY.
MECHANICAL INDEX CO.,
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
New York Newsletter
THE GREAT CHRYSLER
ART SCANDAL
The moment of truth in Ottawa
From GEORGE McGANN in NEW YORK
A rt circles in this country and Canada
are chewing over one of the juiciest
scandals to agitate their gossipy com-
munity for many a season.
The scandal has everything—big
names, big money and big repercussions
reaching high into government circles. It
is not much of an exaggeration to say
that the art world of North America was
talking more about Chrysler than about
Cuba even during the dreadful week of
“The Crisis” when we might all have been
blown to smithereens at any moment.
“Chrysler” is, of course, that unortho-
dox and unpredictable collector, Walter P.
Chrysler, Junior, a son of the motorcar
manufacturer who inherited enough of
his father's great fortune to turn his back
on the assembly lines of Detroit to con-
centrate on the more intriguing lines of
classical and modern art.
Now 53, Chrysler has devoted most of
his life and a great deal of his money to
buying paintings and sculpture. He is
said to possess more than 4000 individ-
ual pieces—so many, in fact, that he has
to store most of them in warehouses or
in nooks and crannies of the Chrysler
Tower, a New York sykscraper which he
inherited from his wealthy (but non-art
loving) parent.
A few years ago Chrysler bought an
abandoned church in Provincetown,
Massachusetts, a rather trashy summer
resort on the tip of Cape Cod which
boasts a colorful colony of beatniks and
bohemians and some authentic artists,
writers and intellectuals. He converted
the building into an art museum.
Last summer Chrysler hung 180 or
more of his vast collection of paintings
in the Provincetown Museum in a show-
ing he called “The Controversial Cen-
tury: 1850-1950." In the light of what
has happened since, the adjective was
certainly well chosen, but might better
have been applied to the showing itself.
Rumblings about the authenticity of
some of the works attributed to Braque,
Klee, Picasso, Matisse and other modern
masters were heard as soon as the Pro-
vincetown showing opened. Oddly
enough, the man who was later to expose
the scandal, “The New York Times” art
critic John Canaday, found the Province-
town Exhibition praiseworthy, although
he noted that many of the exhibits were
“atypical” of the artists represented. That
was a masterpiece of understatement.
Actually the Chrysler Exhibition
turned out to be an incredible collection
of fakes studded here and there with an
authentic masterpiece.
Shown color photographs of two paint-
ings attributed to him in the exhibition,
Picasso at his home in France snorted
disgustedly: “Faux, Faux.”
The moment of truth for Chrysler and
his strange collection of fraudulent works
came not in Provincetown, however, but
in Ottawa.
For reasons which remain mysterious,
the National Gallery in Ottawa imported
the entire Chrysler showing in a “pack-
age deal” and opened it amid much fan-
fare in late September, despite warnings
from below the border that many of the
exhibits were highly suspect at best, and
downright fakes, at worst.
The Art Dealers’ Association of
America, a self-policing organisation
notified the director of the Ottawa
National Gallery, a bearded gentleman
named Charles Comfort, that much of the
Chrysler collection was phoney. Com-
fort chose to ignore this and other attacks
on the collection and opened it to the
public.
Critic Canaday of the “New York
Times” journeyed to Ottawa for another
look at the Chrysler showing. His revised
opinion of the collection, printed in the
“Sunday Times” in early October, re-
sulted in questions in Parliament, the re-
signation of an official of the National
Gallery (but not Comfort), and threats
of legal action which may result in im-
pounding of the entire collection by the
US Customs Service when it is sent back
across the Canadian border at the Exhibi-
tion's close.
Art critics who have carefully studied
the Chrysler collection in Ottawa are in
general agreement that nearly half of the
186 paintings displayed are flagrant fakes
attributed to Cezanne, Renoir, Van Gogh,
Degas and the other masters. Many of
them have been exposed as deliberate
forgeries; others stand revealed as medi-
ocre work bearing false signatures. The
fakes were displayed in proximity to
authentic works by great artists, thereby
making their fraudulence apparent even
to the casual viewer.
“In an exhibition that includes so fine
a Degas as ‘'Dancer with Bouquets,” why
should a pleasant but not at all excep-
tional sketch of a young girl, without a
signature, no date, shaky pedigree, and
so far as I can see no direct kinship to
a Degas, be offered as a Degas?” asked
critic Canaday.
To this and other questions there
have been no answers from Mr Chrysler.
According to some, Chrysler acquired
70 of the suspect paintings within the
past two years from two New York art
dealers, Joly Hartert and H. B. Yotnak-
parin, who specialise in works “attribu-
ted to" acknowledged masters. Hartert's
son was arrested in Paris several years
ago for attempting to sell paintings he
said he acquired in the flea market as
genuine Matisses.
As a result of questions in Parliament
from Opposition benches, Mr Comfort
admitted there were “some soft spots” in
the Chrysler collection and that members
of his staff had harbored serious reserva-
tions about some of the paintings. How-
ever he explained that he had taken the
word of Mr Chrysler, as “an interna-
tionally reputable collector” that the
paintings were authentic. A painter him-
self, Mr Comfort taught art history for
22 years at the University of Toronto
before his appointment as Director of the
National Gallery. He has expressed fears
that the scandal will have “grave reper-
cussions for me and my staff.”


ANYONE HERE SEEN LEVINE?
Or, I dreamt I went mad for the FBI
From MURRAY KEMPTON in NEW YORK
Tack Levine, a former agent of the
** Federal Bureau of Investigation, is
a surprising figure because his appearance
reminds us that J. Edgar Hoover has until
now been the only absolute tyrant whose
secret court has not been violated by the
revelations of some apostate. Stalin had
his Djilas long before Hoover had his
Levine. And, until now, Americans have
known more about Yemen than they
have been permitted to know about the
private world of the director of their
Federal Bureau of Investigation.
Levine spent only a year with the FBI
After he left, he sought a position with
the United States Department of Justice,
to which Mr Hoover is officially subor-
dinate, but from which he has so ada-
mantly guarded his secrets that Justice
seems to have been almost pathetically
anxious to hire an employee who gave
some promise of knowing something of
what Mr Hoover was doing. But Justice
did not hire Levine—cowed, he thinks,
by the thought of Mr Hoover’s displea-
sure —and now Levine has made his com-
plaints about the FBI public.
Levine has attracted most attention to
himself with his estimate that at least
1500 of the American Communist Party’s
6000 members are presently agents of the
FBI. Mr Hoover announces every year
that the party is larger and more dan-
gerous than it was the year before. If
Levine is correct, whatever recruiting the
party does is mainly the result of Mr
Hoover's infusions of fresh blood, and
the FBI need only withdraw its support
to have the party collapse entirely.
We revere Djilas the man, but we are
in thrall to Djilas the gossip. Levine’s re-
collection of his first mass audience with
Mr Hoover is fit for Suetonius:
During the latter part of October,
1960, our training class received ex-
tensive briefing and preparation for
our meeting with the Director. The
duration of this preparation was
approximately eight hours. A Bureau
official who had a familiarity with
the physical layout of the Director's
office lectured us for close to an hour
using maps and sketches as visual
aids.
It was explained to us that such a
briefing was necessary because in the
past there had been incidents in
which new agents had walked in and
out of undesignated doors, stumbled
into desks and had tripped over door
saddles all in the presence of the Dir-
ector. These new agents did not
graduate from the training pro-
gramme.
We were then briefed for about an
hour on our personal appearance.
We were instructed to wear dark
suits with a folded handkerchief in
our breast pocket. We were told
what kind of ties were acceptable to
the Director and which were not. We
had to wear shirts with French
cuffs. Several weeks before this,
those agents with short haircuts were
instructed to let their hair grow long
because the Director considers short
haircuts a sign of immaturity. Even
the style of socks we were to wear
was dictated.
We were instructed to carry an
extra handkerchief with us for the
purpose of drying our palms before
entering the Director's office. . . .
Special Agent Victor Turin, class
counsellor, told us that in past years
several new agents were fired for
shaking hands with the Director with
moist palms. It was explained that
the Director distrusts persons with
moist palms, as he considers this to
be an indication of weak character.
FBI trainees, Levine says, “were con-
stantly urged by our superiors to write
laudatory letters to the Director, thank-
ing him for the opportunity of having
gone through the FBI training pro-
gramme and also congratulating him on
his birthday. ... We were told by our
Bureau supervisors that it's very difficult
to get pay rises and promotions in the
Bureau, unless the Director receives a
great number of laudatory letters from
individual agents.”
“During the first week of training, the
new agents are required to purchase and
read “Masters of Deceit" by J. Edgar
Hoover. . . . During the latter part, our
training class was informed that the
Director had consented to autograph the
hard-cover edition of his book for those
who wished to purchase copies as per-
sonal mementos or as gifts for friends
and relatives. . . . The officials reminded
me that the purchase list would receive
the Director's personal attention and that
he would want to know the names of
those agents who did not purchase a
book. History may be the purer be-
cause, at least, Caligula did not write a
book.
Levine remembers that most of his
colleagues hated Mr Hoover and con-
spired against him with incessant futility.
It must have been a necessity of defence.
The Director once discharged an Assis-
tant Director for hiring a file clerk with
pimples.
BUYING A WINE?
An occasional column
T>erhaps this week this column should
r be headed “WINES NOT TO BUY”
for I feel something must be said about
a practice which is becoming more evi-
dent in the wine industry.
For many years most Australian wines
have been named, often somewhat
loosely, after the style of their European
counterparts. In many cases, the actual
regional name has been used, i.e. Chablis,
Graves, Moselle, etc., and in others the
English derivation, i.e. Ho_k. Burgundy,
Claret, etc. This practice, often much
maligned, has helped in the steering of
a wandering public into the joys of re-
gular wine drinking.
However, with the ever-increasing
sophistication of both maker and consu-
mer, this time-honored dishonesty has
fallen away to some degree, and such
forthright names as Pokolbin Dry Red,
Seaview Riesling, Seven Hills Cabernet,
in which the area and predominant grape
type are recorded, have heralded wines
that have had considerable impact.
That is why it is lamentable to find
suddenly in the industry a series of mer-
chandising manoeuvres that blatantly
plagiarise famous overseas generic and
regional names that have never before
been so used, and what is more these
celebrated names appear on bottles of
what is quite often inferior wine.
There are now at least two Liebfrau-
milches on the market, one of which
even copies the famous Blue Nun. There
is apparently a firm that has registered
the name of a famous German Vine-
yard and consequently could be selling
wine under this name. Finally, a
sparkling wine, made from Muscat
Gordo, called Asti Spumante. Does this
mean that soon we will have a Barossa
Chateau Margaux or a Hunter River
Vosne Romanee?
The public would do well to steer
clear of these merchandising gimmicks.
Good Australian wine does not need
them, and it will be a tragedy if the
public allow them to be continued.
CELLARMASTER


mm
i
m
'T:
m
m
■
Friend of the Family
Bring soma cars home and your
budget goes down the drain.
Not with a Volkswagen.
A VW takes care of your petrol. If
you’re careful you might even get 45
miles out of a gallon. But day in, day
out you can expect to get 37.
It’s even stingier with oil. Never needs
a drop between changes.
Another thing. Our car is very easy
on its tyres. You won’t be setting any
records if yours last 40,000 miles.
When the time comes for mainten-
ance, you’ll find that repairs which cost
a conventional car owner an arm and a
leg hardly disturb your budget.
You can trust a Volkswagen with your
money. But how about your wife?
When she discovers the charm of
driving a VW, and how easy it is to park,
they are likely to run away together.
In spite of appearances to the con-
trary, there’s a lot of room in a VW.
Mum, dad, three growing kids, the
dog and the luggage all fit in com-
fortably.
If you’ve got a car that’s eating you
out of house and home, it’s time you
met a Volkswagen. (Nothing formal.
Just drop in and get acquainted.
Who knows? Your family
might decide to give one
of our cars a good home.


m
WITH
SPECIAL KEYING SYSTEMS
© 33©
83. Cl. C 2. C 3
, (H
A 3.
•it
A 3.
C|A>’'
GRAND MASTER-KEYED SYSTEM
Each lock has its own individual key which operates that lock only and
no other, but the locks are divided into two or more groups. Each group
is subject to its own Master-Key which opens all locks in that group, but
no other group.
However, all locks are also subject to a Grand Master-Key which opens
all locks in all groups.
As with Master-Keyed Systems, Keyed-Alike groups may also be Included
in G.M.K. Systems.
WITH THE LOCKWOOD
MASTER-KEY .SYSTEM
YOU NEED CARRY ONLY
ONE KEY INSTEAD OF
HUNDREDS!
■■■ 'V
In industry and commerce today a Lockwood MK System is an essential
pre-requisite to controlled security throughout your organisation.
Each system, large or small, is designed specifically to individual requirements,
enabling smooth functioning of access by authority, including Fire Brigade
a ? ti ar| d guaranteeing rapid accessibility, in emergencies, to any part
of the building, plant, or organisation.
Specifications and code details of all established Special Keying Systems are
held on permanent record under strict security by Ogden Industries
enabling quick replacement of lost keys or damaged locks "true to code", and
allowing absolute control of additions or extensions to the system.
Experienced special representatives are immediately available to discuss
Master-Keyed or Grand Master-Keyed Systems in detail.
Pjease contact your leading hardware merchant, or Ogden Industries Ptv
Limited at any Branch, listed below, for prompt attention.
IPC** up
Manufactured In Australia by
OGDEN INDUSTRIES PTY. LIMITED
Brisbane 7-3047 • Sydney LM 3191, LM 3186 . Canberra 4-4098
Adelaide W 2153 . Perth 23-2214 . Hobart 3-3141 . Melbourne 569-0611
OVERSEAS
THE U.S.
NUCLEAR
MISSILE
EDGE
A Less Popular View On Cuba?
From NORA BELOFF
in WASHINGTON
Mow that the Cuban crisis has calmed
down, it remains to be seen whether
President Kennedy and Mr Khrushchev
will carry out their pledges to reach ac-
commodation within the United Nations,
or whether they will go on challenging
each other to ordeal by thermonuclear
deterrent —until the last and final round
when even this threat ceases to deter.
The bewildering brinkmanship of the
past fortnight can only be explained
within the w'ider context of the military
and industrial background of the past
two years. American policy, expounded
consistently by Mr Kennedy and paid
for by gargantuan military budget
($52,000 million for the current year,
three times as much as all Western
Europe together), is to maintain and ex-
pand the American margin of nuclear
superiority over the Russians.
This w'as Mr Kennedy’s justification
for resuming the nuclear tests after the
Russians had broken the test moratorium,
and the Pentagon earlier this year an-
nounced that the Americans now have
enough nuclear power to w'ipe out the
Soviet Union whether the Americans hit
first or have to retaliate against Soviet
attack.
The new “counter-force” strategy
adopted by US Defence Secretary Robert
McNamara means that the Americans
intend to have enough missiles not just
to impose lethal injury on key Soviet
cities and thus deter attack, but also to
be able to knock out all known or sus-
pected Soviet missile bases. This re-
quires many hundred ICBM’s well scat-
tered and well concealed, and, as an
American scientist recently said, it pro-
vides a God-sent w'ay of using the missiles
that are just now beginning to come off
the mass production assembly belt.
Economically the arms race has not
hurt America. On the contrary, it has
no other politically practical w 7 ay of
maintaining high level public expenditure
needed to take up the slack in an over-
abundant economy and relieve unem-
ployment. At the height of the Cuban
crisis, Mr Walter Heller, chairman of
the President’s Economic Council, pre-
dicted that the new military stress might
postpone the anticipated recession for
another six months.
It is only against this strategic and
economic background that the sudden
and apparently crazy Soviet nuclear ad-
venture into the Caribbean begins to
make sense. The Russians have no
interest in keeping up an arms race which
they cannot win. Their economy is
overstrained, their currency inflated, their
agriculture under-developed, and their
major cities near enough affluence to
resent a reversion to austerity.
Mr Khrushchev’s aim seems to have
been to rouse the Americans to an aware-
ness that the race was also too dangerous
for them. If America could be alarmed
into coming to terms over wider interna-
tional issues, the arms race might be re-
versed and the ideological struggle con-
verted into less destructive channels. The


MIGHTY
GOOD
for. Including
IN YOUR. NEXT OVERSEAS TRJP
On your way to or from the U.K. flying
via South Africa costs only £4O more
(the tore varies slightly from the various capital cities)
Whether your next overseas trip be for business
or pleasure (or both!), South Africa richly merits
inclusion in your itinerary. Business-wise, South
Africa is a very logical market for Australian goods
of most every description. What's more, it's only
hours away by S.A.A.'s Australia-South Africa-U.K.
service.
When you consider that a side trip to South Africa,
costing about £4O more in air fares, could earn you
a prosperous new export market, it's surely worth the
time involved!
These are some of the items AustraL’a
exports to South Africa
Foodstuffs Paints Hardware Electrical
Goods Motor Vehicles Kitchenware
Machinery, all types Rubber, Plastic and
Leather Goods Timber Sporting Goods
Chemicals Piece Goods Synthetic Yarns,
is your product here?
SOUTH AFRICA —<'the richest travel
experience the world- has to offer j
Pleasure-wise, the attractions
of South Africa are among
the wonders of the world.
Fabulous Kruger National
Park, with its teeming wild
life, towering mountains, tho
diamond mines at Kimberley,
Victoria Falls these are
among the tourist musts your
camera will want to record.
See your travel agent.
South African Mihwa rs
Fly
Choice of daylight or overnight flights
by magnificent Boeing 707 Stratojets
between Johannesburg and London
5
with choice of stop-overs at no
extra air fare, or non-stop to Athens
and again onward to London
sN ASSOCIATION WITH QANTAS, 5.0.A.C., C.A.A. AND E.A.A.
Russians may have expected to scare the
Americans by pointing nuclear weapons
at them from within their own early
warning system—as they could have done
if they had been allowed to finish their
Cuban installations. Or, otherwise, they
•night have hoped to impose diplomatic
conditions for their voluntary withdrawal.
Instead, the Americans reacted to the
threat, not by backing down, but by
threatening to hit back. The Russians
were left with the alternative of pulling
their missiles out or having these destroy-
ed either by American bombing or, even
worse, by capture by an invading Ameri-
can army.
How militarily significant were Soviet
installations in Cuba? Here a certain
degree of irrationality appears in Ameri-
can reasoning. One of President Ken-
nedy’s White House advisers told me
that if intermediate bases (with missiles
ranging up to 2000 miles) had been
operational, American defences would
have been paralysed. The President him-
self apparently seriously believed that
the Russians would then force a Berlin
settlement under the threat of Cuban
missiles.
The President’s military advisers also
persuaded him that the Cuban bases
proved Soviet aggressive intentions, as
they were hopelessly vulnerable and
would be useless unless the Russians in-
tended to attack first. Yet nothing would
have shocked Mr Kennedy more than the
idea that vulnerable "first strike” missiles
dotted around Germany, Britain, Italy
and Turkey were offensive. It is also
widely believed by Western strategists
that, in the ICBM and Polaris age, inter-
mediate-range rockets on fixed above-
ground sites are now obsolete. In England
Thor missiles are being dismantled, and
it is common knowledge that Americans
would have liked to take the Jupiter
rockets out of Turkey and have only
kept them there to preserve Turkish
morals and encourage this impoverished
country to continue its crushing contri-
bution to Nato's southern defences. Yet
what was judged obsolete and defensive
in Europe was held lethal and offensive
in Cuba.
1 here is some uncertainty how far
advanced the Soviet version of Polaris
is, and no one can be sure of the size
and vulnerability of Soviet ICBMs; but
if all of the US is not already within
range of Soviet missiles it certainly will
be soon.
The Soviets did, in fact, get slight
indications that their gamble had pro-
duced some new American thinking. Mr
Kennedy flatly turned down Mr Khrush-
chev’s plan for trading missile bases in
Turkey for those in Cuba, but all the
same the American leader conveyed a
willingness to examine ways of relieving
tensions between the Nato and the War-
saw blocs which, most people understood,
means some similar kind of deal.


THE INDISPENSABLE
MR NEHRU
But in New Delhi work starts 11 a.m. as usual
From RAWLE KNOX in NEW DELHI
Three Chinese Divisions and a re-
treat of less than 40 miles have
exploded India into a patriotic
fervour not experienced since 1942.
Those were the days of violent resis-
tance to the British, now allowed by
India one of her staunchest friends. Vio-
lence is ba J< again, though immature and
officially stamped upon. Communist Party
offices and members have been assaulted
up and down the country; to save itself
from extinction the CPI has declared
China an aggressor. To provoke such a
reaction as this, surely predictable, the
Chinese must have wanted very badly to
do what they did.
Chinese forces first moved when they
discovered that behind their forward
positions in Ladakh the Indians had been
quietly establishing their own. That
showed where the Chinese were sensitive.
The heavier attack in the north-east was
political, to destroy the authority of the
“illegal McMahon Line.” The operations
in the west were strategic and vital.
In Ladakh the Chinese are attempting
to protect the network of roads they have
built to feed two main routes—all of
these in territory India believes hers. One
of these trunk routes connects the indus-
trial areas of Sinkiang with Lhasa and is
essential because the Peking-Lhasa rail-
road is uncompleted. The other, from
which the present Ladakh operations have
been supplied, runs from Sinkiang
through Aksaichin (Ladakh), then just
above the Indian and Nepali borders into
the narrow wedge of China that divides
Bhutan from Sikkim.
The Indian command expects the
Chinese objective in Ladakh to be a
natural line running from Daulat Beg
Oldi just under Karakoram southwards
down a stretch of the Shyok River and
then to the Pangong Lakes. This line is
in places over 50 miles ahead of the
boldest Chinese 1960 claims. In the north
they have very nearly reached Daulat Beg
Oldi and in the south they have nowhere
more than 30 miles to go.
These two roads through Aksaichin are
also being used to supply Chinese forces
fighting a thousand miles away in the
North-East Frontier Agency. This is the
connection between the two operations.
The roads have been reported exception-
ally busy all this week while there is a
suspicious lull on the North-East Front.
There the Indians will not be caught
by surprise again and the Chinese need
a correspondingly bigger build-up before
attacking. If none of the current cease-
fire proposals is accepted by Delhi the
Chinese may well decide to push on be-
fore the heavy snow starts in a month or
so, and before the Indian Army can be
trained to use any new equipment it may
obtain. Western military observers, how-
ever, believe that the Indian Army could
now hold its enemy either on the present
line in NEFA or on one farther south
just north of Bomdila.
In either case the Chinese would pass a
much more uncomfortable winter than
the Indians.
The Indian command began expecting
a Chinese assault in the north-east as
early as July, but the troops on the ground
were totally unprepared for it in late
October. That is the reason for Mr
Krishna Menon’s partial eclipse—that and
his unpopularity within the Congress
Party.
iy|R Menon, who was demoted from
Defence to Defence Production
Minister, and finally sacked, is only
equally guilty—if that is the word—with
Mr Nehru. It was the political decision
not to appeal for arms from the West,
before the Chinese showed themselves
plainly as aggressors, that lost the first
battle.
Mr Nehru, of course, is indispensable.
It is his determination, his promise to
throw the Chinese back to the frontier,
that has fired the current national
enthusiasm. True, there are more verbal
heroics than there is action. Factories,
at the wave of a managerial wand, are put
overnight on “a war footing.” Maharajas
and Maharanis cable Mr Nehru (with a
copy to the news agencies) offering their
services “in any capacity”. The vast
herd of New Delhi civil servants still
wobbles tardily to work on its bicycles be-
tween 10 and 11 in the morning, but is
willing to sign its name in blood to de-
fend India. Against that, young men who
would normally disdain manual labor are
helping the Army to build roads in
Assam, and the women of India are
pouring gold and jewels from their wed-
ding chests into the National Defence
Fund. The will to serve is there, per-
haps as never before.
To channel this wellspring into useful
purposes, says Mrs Indria Gandhi (who
has donated all her gold and jewellery),
is India’s present need. The gush of
national sacrifice will keep flowing as
long as Mr Nehru’s determination exists.
Surrounded by poverty and inefficiency,
the Indian is never far from disillusion.
If Mr Nehru were persuaded into negotia-
tion, a path so natural to him, on terms
any less than he has stated, disillusion-
ment would be absolute.
The Russians are still smiling at Mr
Nehru. They have carefully let it be
known that they are putting pressure on
Peking; this in turn put pressure on Mr
Nehru —to be reasonable. Mr Nehru
showed this week he had not given up
hope in the Russians when he said in a
broadcast he hoped that if the Cuba crisis
were settled Moscow would “return” to
its position of neutrality between Peking
and Delhi. There are members of Mr
Nehru's Cabinet who believe this thinking
more chimerical than wishful; but they
have not a tenth of Mr Nehru's authority.
For the Indian Premier, now Minister
of Defence as well, there is a straight con-
flict between military and political con-
siderations. The Chinese attack in the
north-east is a limited operation, not all-
out war. It is limited by Chinese geo-
graphical claims and by the amount of
men China can at one time push through
the passes. The 30,000 they sent for the
October 20 attack were about the maxi-
mum that could be moved and supplied.
Because of this limitation on the Chinese,
the Indian Army, who should receive new
arms and training during the winter, have
a good chance next spring of pushing the
Chinese back from where they came;
as Mr Nehru has promised will happen.
By that time the Sino-Indian conflict
will inevitably have become part of the
Cold War—the last thing Mr Nehru
wishes. Yet, on whatever terms he might
decide to negotiate, it is almost impossible
he could recover Aksaichin through
which run the roads which could always
support fresh Chinese attacks if Peking
decided he was “an imperialist agent”
once more.
China's long-term aim—and it is worth
remembering that President Chiang Kai-
shek has also denounced the McMahon
Line—is to dominate Bhutan, Sikkim,
Nepal and the view over the north Indian
plain. The Russians, who are plainly
shaken by the Indian reaction to the
Chinese assault, hope by economic and
“cultural” co-operation with India to edu-
cate her over the years into a Communist
philosophy. Mr Nehru may try to play
these two ideas against each other at the
conference table. He is a brave man.
He will need all his bravery whichever
course he takes.


Now! Handle bulk storage faster. =, easier,,. than ever before!
With full-size, walk-in doors and
many other modern improve-
ments, Lysaght All-purpose Silos
streamline bulk storage . . . save
time and money for wheat
farmers, big and small.
Essential at harvest time, they
continue to earn money for you
all the year round. When not
being used for bulk grain, they
become ideal all-purpose storage
units simply by opening the
doors and slipping out the bulk-
heads.
& • «** :
--->£& :<ix-
; > *y»y.fx : >>X; *-r
.
mm
m
■
-.■:; ■
-x
Above: A typical battery of Lysaght 3,100
bushel Silos at Condobolin, N.S.W.,
installed for the bulk handling of wheat.
With the new flat floor, these silos work
365 days of the year as general storage
for seed wheat and many other purposes.
At left: Close-up of a mobile Auger emptying
one of the above silos. With a sweep
attachment, and the flat floor, the silo
can be emptied to less than a single bag of
grain.
LYSAGHT
AMERICAN TYPE
FLAT FLOOR SYSTEM
ALL PURPOSE SILOS*
*Patent pending
No. 55007/59
• Full-size “walk-in” door (silos from 1,200
bushels upwards) enables silos to be emptied
and cleaned with a ttfnimum of time, effort
and discomfort.
• Easier, faster, cheaper erection.
• Vertically rigidised walls and 6-ply horizontal
ribs for added strength.
• Robust positive-action bagging outlet, complete
with quick release bag holder and steel hood.
• Auger Chute in bottom bulkhead behind the
door.
• Improved centre and side-filling hole assemblies,
complete zoith hinged lids and positive fastenings.
• Wide turned-down eaves on roof panels.
• Fully rodent-proof construction.
PRICES
(F.O.R. Newcastle)
* The 500 Bushel Silo is not
equipped with a door. Price
includes steel floor.
Optional extras: Easy to install,
heavy gauge Steel Floor Q Steel
Earth Ring
Post coupon now for complete details to: JJ
John Lysaght (Australia) Limited.
(City)
Please send me full details of the complete range of Lysaght
Grain Silos.
NAME
NAME OF PROPERTY
ROUTE OR RMB NO
DISTRICT ...STATE
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
Offices in Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, and Fremantle
Manufactured by: John Lysaght (Australia) Limited, Special
Products Division, Newcastle Works, Newcastle, N.S.W.
SBCC


THE
BEST
BLOOD IN
SCOTLAND
A SHORT STORY
BY CREINA ROHAN
When the party was fairly under
way Vashti rallied her forces.
She planted the liquor behind
the palms at the edge of the verandah;
then she called Reggie and Davy. She
■called very softly at the side gate but
they came straight away from amongst
the shadows of the sheoak trees.
“I’ll show those squares in there if
I’m too young for an adult’s party,” she
told them.
It was her brother Roddy’s twenty-first
birthday and it was due to Roddy that
she was missing so much fun. Aunt
Esther had supported him.
“It’s Roddy’s night,” she said, “he’s
got the right to say who comes.”
Roddy said that Vashti could come till
ten o’clock, and that was plenty late
enough for any kid of fifteen. Vashti,
knowing that this was said with the
express purpose of enraging her, decided
that she would appear not to notice it.
“And while we’re on the subject,” said
Roddy, “I might as well tell you that I’m
not having all the old Bible bashing,
psalm singing Sims Uncles and Aunts.
My friends would laugh at them.”
Aunt Esther said, “It’s your own you’re
talking about,” but she let it go at that.
So that settled it. If Roddy would not
invite great-uncle Peter Sims, for
example, with his mad old eyes and
handsome face and his quotations from
all the more terrifying Prophets, then
what hope was there for Vashti? Uncle
Peter had bluffed the whole family for
the last fifty years.
“I’m having my friends,” said Roddy.
And now his friends had arrived
nurses from the Kooladi hospital, the
local bookie and all his crowd and some
of the shark-fishing tourists from Port
Lincoln. Vashti behaved perfectly
and at ten o'clock she withdrew, taking
a bottle of champagne, another of Scotch
and a third of sparkling burgundy with
her.
"Here it is,” she told Davy and Reggie,
“they won’t even know it’s gone. You’ve
never seen so much grog in all your life
as they’ve got in there. They’re all flat out
like lizards drinking it. There’s one
woman from Lincoln, she’s an American
or Canadian or something, she’s drinking
whisky like water. She says, ‘Get me
another Scartch, Roddy Dahling’,”
Vashti was fit to burst with scorn, “She’s
got earrings seven inches long. She said
to me, ‘You look cute, sugarpie’. I’ll
sugarpie her.”
She turned for comfort to Davy,
“How do I look, Davy?”
“Beautiful,” said Davy.
He looked at her where she sat on the
verandah edge, skirt spreading wide from
the hand’s span waist, hair gleaming like
gilt in the light that came from the
windows.
“Yes,” he repeated, “you look beauti-
ful.”
“Champeen,” volunteered Reggie.
“Well, here goes. Who knows how to
take the top off whisky?”
Davy did. He drew the cork with his
teeth while Vashti produced glasses from
behind the geraniums.
“See,” she said, “I think of everything.
Well! here’s to us.”
They threw their liquor down with a
stiff wrist, the way they’d seen it in the
Westerns, and Vashti and Reggie imme-
diately fell to coughing, choking and
laughing.
“Gee, it’s horrible,” gasped Vashti.
Horrible! Bang me on the back some-
one. I can’t get my breath.”
“Have another,” suggested Davy,
“You’ve got to get used to it.”
He leaned up against the veranda’ post
and felt the warmth of the alcohol bite
into his stomach and from there spread,
golden and easy, into all his limbs. Look-
ing through the sheoaks, he could see
there was still one light shining in his
father s hut. Already it seemed just a
little further away. He was a tall
slender boy, Davy, and he moved with
the balance and grace of an animal, and
should ever he have a thousand pounds
to spend on clothes he would never find
anything that suited him so well as the
narrow stockrider’s trousers and open
necked shirt he was wearing tonight.
“White shirt, Mum,” he had said, “I’m
going to a party.”
“Don’t you get into no trouble, Davy,”
said his mother. But she gave him the
white shirt and when he was dressed she
said, “You’re very handsome tonight,
son.”
Vashti was thinking the same thing as
she produced the champagne bottle. She
said,
“Have some of this. I tried it once at
Teresa Connell’s wedding. It’s lovely.”
They gouged at the cork with Reggie’s
pocket knife, and at last it went flying
into the palms with the sound of a rifle
shot, causing all three to spring behind
the hydrangeas, all shaking with laughter
and clutching at the foaming bottle.
“Ah well!” Vashti wiped her hands on
her petticoat and filled their glasses to the
brim, “Here’s to me!”
The first few mouthfuls and she was
laughing again,
“It makes me sneeze,” she said, “gee,
it’s sneezy.”
“It makes me burp,” said Reggie.
“My hands are wet,” raid Davy.
“Wipe them on my petticoat,” said
Vashti.
She watched as the long beautiful
hands with the nails like polished shell
moved amongst the folds of stiffened
lawn and Broderie Anglaise. They moved
as a bird’s wing sweeps. The fingers
spread out fanwise, then they folded


# Tm a lily of the field, Davy. Do I remind you of Solomon in all his glory or the
Queen of Sheba?" "You do, Vashti. Too right you do."
together beneath the other hand piled
high with white. They lay there a
moment, light, quivering moth’s wings
now; dark moth’s wings in a lace
trimmed cocoon. Vashti stood, hands
on hips, one foot on the verandah edge,
her legs long and slender, perfectly arti-
culated against the turned back petticoats.
She shook her hair back from her shoul-
ders and raised her adolescent breasts in
a long drawn breath that was half
triumph, half defiance.
“I can get him to do anything,” she
thought, and she said, “Davy, will you
do me a favor?”
“Anything! you name it and I’ll do it.”
“My hands are still wet,” said Reggie.
Davy pulled a handkerchief from his
pocket and handed it to him, “Use my
hankie,” he said, “What do you want me
to do, Vashti?”
“Not now, I’ll tell you later.”
It was now discovered that while Davy
had been wiping his hands Reggie had
stolen a march on them and opened the
sparkling burgundy.
“It’s champeen,” he told them.
Vashti had a sip and thought it not as
good as champagne. Davy had some but
said he’d stick to whisky. So Reggie com-
menced to drink it from the bottle.
“There’s elegance for you,” said
Vashti, “downright old Southern ele-
gance.”
“Jest call him Tex,” drawled Davy,
“a-sattin’ right there on two geranium
plants. Ah think Ah’ll join yuh, colonel.
Make mine another Scotch.”
“Gee you’re good tonight Davy,”
Vashti was laughing again, “you’re al-
ways good at taking people off, but
tonight you’re mighty.”
T\avy was sitting on the verandah rail
swinging his feet in their ankle length
riding boots. He held the whisky glass
in both hands and his shoulders were
easy and slouched. all the tension
gone from his body now, every muscle
relaxed and his mind calm and con-
tended.
“Tonight I feel mighty,” he said.
“Let’s sneak into the conservatory,”
said Vashti, “they’ve put seats in there
and moved most of the plants up onto
a big table at one end with all the cactus
round it in tubs. It’s like a wall. We
could hide behind there.”
Reggie was inclined to hang back.
“Come on,” Vashti begged, “if you two
are scared I’ll go alone.”
“It’s different for you,” said Reggie.
He meant, “You’re the boss’ grand-
daughter.”
Davy knew he meant this and it made
him laugh. Tonight it didn’t matter. He
said:
“Maybe Roddy’s kissing the Canadian
lady there amongst Miss Esther’s prize
cactus. Come on.”
They went in and the conservatory was
empty. Not one single courting couple.
“What’s happening to the younger
generation?” said Davy.
They went up to the big glass doors
that led into the dining room. The biggest
room in the house, it was quite large
enough for a private ballroom and
tonight it was filled with people, noise
and light, and the music of the dance
band brought from Port Lincoln.
Roddy was standing alone, his back to
the door. He was wearing a brand new
tuxedo.
“Look at him,” said his sister, “doesn’t
he adore himself? Bless its little heart in
its twenty first birthday tux. Hi loathe-
some!”
This last was aimed venomously at the
unconscious back on the other side of
the glass.
“Wonder why he’s all alone,” said
Davy, “Roddy Dahling, bring me another
Scartch.”
Vashti gave a shriek of laughter.
“You’re fabulous tonight Davy,
honestly you are,” she assured him.
Roddy opened the door and confronted
them angrily,
“You three, get out!” he ordered.
“All alone brother mine? What’s the
reason for that?”
The reason was that the glamorous
Canadian was whirling in the arms of
Roddy’s cousin Peter Forbes.
“Get going,” said Roddy, “or I’ll have
you thrown out.”
Vashti placed her hand on Davy’s fore-
arm.
“Mr McLiam,” she said, “lead me
forth from this vulgar brawl. All present
are peasants.”
“Certainly Duchess, certainly.”
Back at the verandah they had another
round of drinks. Reggie, having had
some more whisky and globbed down the
greater part of the bottle of burgundy
as though it were milk, was now seen to
slide gently down a verandah post and
come to rest with his head amongst the
crushed geraniums. His eyes closed and
he began to snore.
“He’s forgotten all his troubles,” said
Davy.
“You going to do me that favor now?”
asked Vashti.
“Yes what is it?”
Vashti made it casual. She settled her
skirts, loosened the drawstring in the
neck of her blouse and shrugged the top
of her shoulders bare. She tightened her
belt, examined the toe of one shoe —then
“Just take me in and dance with me.”
“Vashti!”
“Come on Davy.”
Qhe stood before him and he thought
again how beautiful she was. She was
not beautiful. She was undersized and
inbred; too narrow in the jaw, too wide
in the mouth, but she was golden all
white and gold with blue eyes too big
for her face.
“Lovely Vashti,” he said, “You’re like
a lily; a lily in an uplift brassiere.”
She laughed and said,
“Davy, you surprise me tonight.”
Then he laughed too partly at the
tender extravagance of what he had said,
but mainly because it was a night to
laugh. A night of such freedom and
wonder that nothing was surprising at all.
She began to intone, almost to sing,
“I am the lily of the valley. As the
lily amongst thorns so is my love l’m
a lily of the field, Davy. Do I remind you
of Solomon in all his glory, or the beauti-
ful Queen of Sheba?”
“You do, Vashti. Too right you do.”
“So come on inside.”
“But I can’t. I’m not dressed right.
I can’t barge in and dance in jeans and
ankle jacks.”
“Fill up your glass, Davy. I’m going
to give you a toast. Never mind if you’ve
lost it. We’ll drink out of the same glass
together. This is what old Joe Hynes
from Kempsey used to say. Remember
Joe the Wobbly that had the blacksmith's
shop in Lincoln? Listen now, Davy. It
goes like this. And we’ll stand up Davy.
This is a toast to be drunk standing.
Now! like this,
“ ‘Here’s to our own brave currency
lads,
And those of every nation.
The difference between rich and poor.
Is wealth and education.
But when we’re dead ana in our
graves,
With hundred years to back it.
Who then is there to tell the tale
Who wore the ragged jacket.’ ”
As she finished speaking she took • sip
from the glass and held it to his lips.
She held it there, her eyes on his face,


standing so close that he could feel the
excited, uneven warmth of her breathing
against his throat, till he had drained
every drop. Then she threw the glass to
the ground and it splintered around her
feet.
“No one else will ever drink from it,”
she said. “Now Davy, are you coming?”
He put his hand in hers,
“All right,” he said, “wherever you
want to go.”
(O God in heaven, and every warrior’s
spirit that dreams in the darkening trees,
Oh see me now! I am a prince! I am a
king! I am Solomon in all his glory!)
The girl’s hand slipped, soft, caressing,
up and down his arm and came to rest
around his wrist. Beneath her fingers she
felt the tumult of his blood; his life surg-
ing and beating in the pulse. His life!
Gently, very gently, she brought the
other hand up to his wrist and stood
there a moment, her fingers locked to-
gether. Then once again she lifted her
breasts and drew in her breath and her
eyes grew wide in the night.
“Round here Davy,” her voice was
very soft, “We'll go in from the side
door.
“I do believe that’s Roddy’s kid sister
back again,” said the Canadian woman,
“And who’s that tall, dark and handsome
she’s jiving with? I didn’t see him before.
What’s the difference Peter? A few gate-
crashers do no harm. They’re having
themselves a time, so what the hell. Those
kids can dance.”
Vashti and Davy were well away.
Already they were possessed by the music
and Vashti spun and whirled, ecstatic,
balanced against the strength of Davy’s
body. She was, at that moment, com-
pletely in his power: a living, breathing,
dancing toy for his sole delight. And he
swung her back into his arms and put his
cheek down against hers.
“All right Davy, on your way.”
Peter Forbes’ hand fell heavy on his
shoulder and spun him round. The music
stopped. Peter Forbes was fourteen stone
and over six feet tall. He was a famous
rider, fighter, footballer and ladies’ man,
and he liked his cousin Vashti very well.
He stood back now, heavy of shoulder,
beautifully dressed, his mouth smiling a
little. He looked inexpressibly privileged
and cruel. Davy, caught off balance and
whirled so roughly out of the dance, gave
a little stagger that looked most pitifully
drunken and drew a snigger from some-
one in the hushed and waiting room.
Then to Vashti’s horror, he made a
feint and put up his hands.
ITer cousin said nothing but his smile
A deepened and his hands twitched
slightly, and then the fingers curled. It
was so cruel a gesture, and so uncons-
cious, that it terrified Vashti back into
action. She stepped in front of Davy and
took him by the arm. She must save him
before those curling, longing fingers
bunched into fists that would batter and
mark him forever.
“Davy,” she said, “Dear Davy please
go. To please me Davy.”
She thought, “Oh God what have I
done to him?”
Davy stepped back and looked at them.
And now the drink was in his legs but
he held his head up and it balanced on
his neck proudly and perfectly, like the
head on a statue; and he said, “There’s
some of the best blood in Scotland in my
veins.”
Then he turned and walked away,
weaving slightly in his stride, stepping
very high. Vashti, looking after him, felt
the tears sting her eyes.
“Why do they always walk like that
when they’re drunk?” she thought, “All
disjointed and haughty, a sort of blend
between the Castilian and the metho
maniac.”
She wanted to run after him and put
her arms round him. Then as he reached
the door some wit put out one foot and
he crashed forward on his hands and
knees onto the verandah. There was a
roar of laughter and Peter turned to
Vashti,
“And now, young lady,” he said, “may
I have the pleasure of this dance?”
She moved into his arms and somehow
she was aware that the music had started
again and he was leading her through
the steps of a modern waltz.
“Why are you crying?” he asked.
“I don’t know.”
“Then cut it out. You’ve made a big
enough show of the lot of us for one
night.”
Davy picked himself up from the
verandah, and now the lights from the
stockmen's huts were near, very near.
They were bursting in balls of fire in his
face, and nowhere could he find dark-
ness. In all the world there was only
light and laughter behind him and a row
of mean little huts in front of him. He
turned towards the open country and ran.
Then the night closed around him again
and he was clinging to the trunk of a
pepperina tree and being very sick. He
felt better afterwards, but cold, and the
taste of vomited whisky was bitter in his
mouth. He walked back to his parents’
hut and went into the lean-to where he
slept; and he lay on his bed for a long
while, staring into the dark.
It was almost two in the morning. Now
the big house was jumping with noise and
laughter. Davy walked out onto the hut
verandah and found his father sitting
there.
“You all right now?” asked his father.
“Sober,” said Davy, “stone cold sober.”
He shivered. His father laughed and lit
a cigarette.
“There’s nothing colder is there?” he
said, and handed the tobacco across to
his son.
Davy shook his head.
‘‘Dad,” he said, “did you go to many
parties like that?”
“Many and many a one mostly be-
fore I came to Australia. What’s got into
you tonight anyway? Your mother was
frantic. She's been crying and carrying
on. Aren't you forgetting a few things?”
Davy looked away towards the house.
“No,” he said, “I’m remembering
everything. My memory is real good
tonight Dad.”
was singing. She had a clear
” little voice, true and heartless as a
bell. It was the last make belief of her
childhood—that she was a recording star.
All day she would sing to the music of
the wireless or the radiogram, but tonight
she had a band behind her, playing just
for her singing. The power of the music
bore her up till she felt she was flying.
Everyone was making a fuss of her,
asking her for song after song. It was a
wonderful evening after all. Davy. Poor
Davy was hurt. There was too much
misery and humiliation to be borne. But
in this moment it must not be remem-
bered. Once again the music swept
around her and she forgot the boy as
though he had never been.
“No chance of getting a wink of sleep
tonight,” said his father, “That bitch has
been going for the last half hour.”
“Don’t call her that.”
“It’s what she is Davy. She can’t help
it.”
“No she’s not and I don’t like her
called names. Why shouldn’t she sing?
She’s having a good time.”
“What about you? You having a good
time?”
“Ah, let it ride.”
Davy rose and walked towards the
patch of sheoaks that stood between the
huts and the sea. It was cool amongst
the trees, and almost quiet. There was
only the sound of the sea and a thin
thread of music coming from the big
house. His head was aching and his
body felt sore and his throat was tight
with unshed tears. He raised his hands
and looked at them and again he saw
them lying dark against the whiteness of
her skirts. Suddenly he clenched them
and he laughed. He raised them above
his head, and as he brought them down
he smashed them into the trunk of a tree.
And then he was running amongst the
trees striking out at their silent
strength, battering his fists against their
branches, with the pain of his bleeding
knuckles flowing through his body; and
he felt nothing. All was lost in the
greater agony. The agony that tore at
his heart, that twisted his thin white
man's mouth and filled his wide black
man’s eyes.
He turned his face to the sky.
“O God!” he cried, “I hate her. I hate
her with all my heart.”


... where experience has been
your host since 1853
•••• ••.•••
iiife
:
.
ill
: ; WA?
&
mh
&--H
mz
m
m
Home of Australia’s most-pampered guests
Mi
VWP
vy
FEDERAL
HOTELS
MENZIES
Melbourne
60-1581
HOTEL FEDERAL
Melbourne
62-3721
WREST POINT
Riviera
Hobart 5-1021
LENNONS
Toowoomba
T'mba 2-2433
COCKPIT
Essendon Air Terminal
39-6133
SAVOY PLAZA
Melbourne
62-4141
HAMPTON COURT
Sydney
31-7081
LENNONS
Brisbane
32-0131
LENNONS GOLD COAST
Home of Tropicana
Holiday
Surfers 9-2001
MENZIES SYDNEY
Opening '63
in Carrington Sf. ;
opp. Wynyard Park.
Across the Nation
For immediate reservations, phone your nearest Federal Hotel.
GTAY
C H 218


letters
to the
editor
LEGALISING ABORTION
Sir,
May I add the following arguments
in favour of legalising abortion for con-
sideration alongside Henry Mayer’s
stimulating article in The Bulletin of
October 20.
Let us assume for the moment that
non-therapeutic abortion is prima facie
undesirable. Total destruction of a
foetus may be less anti-social than the
mere infliction of a prenatal injury; but
that is a strained argument, and the
only resting place in this debate is the
proposition that life begins at conception.
Moreover, the state's interest in popula-
tion level is not dead. The world
generally is overcrowded, but in this
respect Australia is out of step: it is our
definite policy to increase population.
The current rate of feloniously-induced
abortions roughly matches our ex-
pensively-won net migration intake.
Legalising abortion, however, offers
the best prospect of controlling its
incidence. Only legalisation will bring
it out into the open and make it possible
for protagonists of the opposing sides to
find common ground—a ground which
begins by sympathising meaningfully
with the plight of the pregnant woman,
particularly with the trauma excited by
our condemnation of illegitimacy, and
which proceeds from there to elaborate
intermediate social and moral guides.
The greatest obstacle to any improve-
ment in the law is the intractable dog-
matism of both sides, so that when ulti-
mately a law is enacted it is a knockout
victory for one side, won in a climate no
longer careful for any part of the other's
arguments.
If abortion were lawful when per-
formed by a registered medical prac-
titioner the really dangerous back-
street surgeon, and other abuses, could
be eliminated. Legalisation would
obviate bribery of police. And apart
from permitting superstition and en-
couraging disrespect for the law, an un-
enforced law is liable to be used for
blackmail and political purposes.
Doctors would cease charging fees
disproportionate to the skill involved in
the operation—fees intended to compen-
sate for the unlikely contingency of
deregistration. In addition to"the fee,
certain doctors exact perquisites in kind
from naive and fearful patients. Since
induced non-therapeutic abortion is
contrary to the Geneva declaration
adopted by the Australian Medical
Association at its inaugural meeting last
May, the AMA might give a lead. It
may be a matter of re-directing the
personal interest which many doctors
must have in preserving the existing law.
If abortion were legalised it would be
possible to persuade or require the
pregnant applicant to pass first through
a counselling clinic (subject to the
ordinary law on professional confidences),
in which the agreed moral and social
policies would be assured of adequate
and timely presentation. At present we
overlook this opportunity. Such a clinic
might be associated with an adoption
clinic, since the demand for adoptive
babies currently exceeds the supply. And
deserving applicants could be granted a
more substantial pension for the dura-
tion—of an amount up to the cost of
assisting a migrant here. Thus could we
make the treatment for unwanted
pregnancy (whether abortion or support
through the pregnancy) as readily avail-
able as treatment for other serious
venereal diseases.
STANLEY W. JOHNSTON
University of Melbourne.
SHORTER LETTERS, PLEASE!
With the steady increase in THE
BULLETIN’S circulation over the
last nine months the number of
readers’ letters reaching us each week
has quadrupled.
Many of them are excellent letters
spoiled by being too long.
We want anybody who has some-
thing to say to write to us but as
concisely as possible. We realise that
some subjects require long letters but
many do not and brevity, as ever,
remains the soul of wit. Ed.
WOMEN IN AUSTRALIA
Sir,
The mid-Victorian attitudes towards
women outlined in your review of
Norman MacKenzie’s book (Bulletin,
November 3) are frustratingly familiar.’
What woman above matriculation
standard has not been enjoined to
conceal her intelligence because there
are men who don’t like it? Intelligence
in women is conceded, but intellectual
dishonesty is expected, to conform with
the requirements of mediocre men.
Your review suggests that the author
confines himself to vocational limitations.
However, it seems to me that the
traditional woman’s role is also
depreciated, and this may be the real
reason for the general disparagement of
feminine achievement.
Virginia Woolf says somewhere that
women lead unrecorded lives. Matters
pertaining to domestic welfare are
relegated to a peculiar limbo, where,
because they are not generally discussed,
they seem to be accorded a lesser level
of reality.
Why are women expected to be shut
up in suburban boxes, bored to tears?
In a country crying out for higher
standards of education, or troubled by
increasing juvenile delinquency, why is
it considered that a semi-literate in-
dividual is a fit and proper person to
bring up children? The small beer of
women's magazines is no vade mecum
for responsible motherhood.
Of course, any fulfilment of the
traditional role, which men say is
woman’s crowning achievement, depends
on the availability of housing; a preg-
nancy at the wrong time would be most
out of place. Women must keep in line,
while men sit around and try to talk
their way out of muddle.
(MISS) CLARIRE WAGNER
Kirrihilli (NSW).
PERSECUTION OF SOVIET JEWS
Sir,
The Soviet Press Attache was not
telling the truth about Soviet Jewry
(Bulletin, October 20). The persecu-
tion of Jews in the USSR is severe, open
and well documented. The London
Jewish Chronicle, the leading paper of
British Jewry, reported in banner head-
lines (12/10/62) a strong protest made
by the Israeli Foreign Minister, Mrs
Golda Meir, against the persecution of
Jews in the USSR at a recent session of
UN.
In the same issue a trial of 15 Soviet
citizens, all of them Jews, is reported
from the Ukrainian town of Chernovky.
The defendants are charged with im-
probable currency offences (possessing
cheques to be drawn on the Bank of
England, and large quantities of gold).
The “leader of the gang” is 81-year-old
community leader Alter Bronstein. This
trial is one of many—most of them in
the Ukraine, the traditional centre of
anti-semitism.
D. BURSTIN
North Kew (Victoria).
A REPEATED MISTAKE?
Sir,
In his article on Fisher, (The Bull-
etin, September 22) M. H. Eliis accepts
that Fisher was forced to establish the
Commonwealth Bank by O'Malley. How
long will Australian historians repeat this
from one another without checking
sources?
O Malley's claim is that in mid-session
on October 5, 191 1, he forced Cabinet to
act on the Bank from the floor of
Caucus, the Bank not having been in the
Government program. The fact is that
the Bank was in the Governor-General’s
speech opening the Parliament on Sep-
tember 5, 1911. It was thus publicly


the Government program a month before
O’Malley claimed to have forced the
decision in mid-session.
O’Malley was unable to settle on the
method by which he “defeated” Fisher
on October 5, unnecessarily to force him
to what had already been announced on
September 5.
First it was by warning Fisher and
Cabinet and then confronting them with
a consensus of opinion in Caucus on Oc-
tober 5, 1911. (O’ Malley “The Com-
monwealth Bank The Facts and its
Creation”, 1923.) Next it was by over-
whelming them without warning with a
motion of Chanter and Maloney on Octo-
ber 5, 1911. (In Jauncey, “Australia’s
Government Bank”, 1927.)
By 1937 he claimed to have carried
Caucus by one vote, the decisive vote
having been obtained on October 5 by
filling in a motion above the blank paper
signed by a Member for the purpose of
a debt collection system, then forcing the
man by his need for £lOO to vote with
the “Torpedo Brigade”. O’Malley in
“The Australasian” May 22, 1937.)
In his “Guest of Honour” broadcast
over the ABC on January 28, 1951, O’-
Malley said the Bank was carried by one
vote, inferring it was through the in-
fluence of the Catholic Archbishop of
Melbourne (Dr Carr).
Finally, to Dorothy Catts for “King
O’Malley, Man and Statesman”, he
claimed it was carried by one vote by
faking a proxy which he then exercised.
Jauncey, “The Australasian” and “The
Australian Encyclopaedia” article on O’-
Malley, all accepted the October 5 date
when a glance at Hansard for September
5 destroys it. The difference between a
surprise vote defeating Cabinet on Octob-
er 5 and a Cabinet program in the Gov-
ernor-General’s speech is the exposure of
O’Malley’s claim. O’Malley also claimed
to have put the Bank on Labor’s fighting
platform in July, 1908, at the Brisbane
ALP Conference. Jauncey accepted this,
as did Professor Giblin. The Conference
Report shows Frank Tudor was respon-
sible.
In 1951, three members of the second
Fisher Cabinet were still living O’-
Malley, Sir George Pearce and W. M.
Hughes. Hughes and Pearce stated
Fisher originated the Commonwealth
Bank in Cabinet.
What O’Malley stated is a matter of
taking your pick from five versions and
then working out why action was being
taken on October 5, a month after it was
announced as Government policy. The
only thing O’Malley’s versions agree on
is his falacious date.
KIM E. BEAZLEY
House of Representatives Canberra).
PERTH’S GAMES
Sir.
Frank Roberts caught the pride of
Perth and her nervousness in his
Commonwealth Games report (The
Bulletin, October 6). But two facts
particularly should be put right:
• The Games Village houses which he
quoted at £.5000 will have to average
more than £6OOO (without the cost of
land) for the Government to clear
expenses.
• The Beatty Park Pool, on the other
hand, will not cost the £1,000,000 he
suggests. The authority for contra-
diction: Town Clerk Allan Green, the
pool’s architect who is the elusive —and
consequently unsung dynamo of the
smooth Games arrangements.
DON LIPSCOMBE
Mt Claremont (WA).
PUBLISHERS AS CHOPPING
BLOCKS
Sir,
Mr Lloyd O'Neil (Bulletin, October
27) is indeed an angry young pub-
lisher with a chopping block on his
shoulder. Had his tirade against criticism
of publishing houses been tinged with
a little moderation, he might have made
at least one good point.
That is, let no one underestimate the
hazards of publishing—in particular the
publishing of fiction. But that is perhaps
why the three books mentioned by
Mr O’Neil as demonstrating publishing
courage are factual books.
Let him also know that the publishing
industry in Australia is booming a
survey made by the Victorian Institute
of Public Affairs showed that our
publishers made a record profit of
£1,350,000 last year.
Finally, in case his remarks regarding
the “backyard writers who ‘successfully’
published their own book” are addressed
to me, may I send him a copy of “Not
With a Kiss” along with two reviews
from the “Sydney Morning Herald” and
the Brisbane “Courier Mail”, which
amply vindicate the gesture I made.
I could send at the same time a
statutory declaration that in two months
we have worked our way through nearly
three-quarters of our edition, nowhere
near the belittling 200 he mentions.
But in any case, surely Mr O'Neil is
wrong is decrying the spirit of the poor
little “embittered, talentless” (the last
two words are his) authors who are
willing to have a go. This is, after all,
the spirit that made Australia great.
KOSTI SIMONS
V and use (NSW).
AN APPEAL TO DR VERWOERD
Sir,
I attach a copy of a letter written by
me to the Prime Minister of South
Africa:
Dear Dr Verwoerd: In the name of
“Amnesty'’, whose president I am in New
South Wales, in the name of humanity,
and last, not least, for the honor of the
Republic of South Africa, I would like to
draw your attention to the conditions at
Pretoria Central Prison in general and at
the conditions of confinement of Manga-
liso Sobukwe, President of the Pan Afri-
can Congress, in particular.
Never, at any time, did it pay to make
martyrs of well-known personalities, and
the conditions of Mr Sobukwe’s health
and the conditions in prison are causing
grave concern to the friends of South
Africa. In order to avoid Mr Sobukwe
from dying either in prison or immedi-
ately on his release and to prevent this
from becoming a rallying call for all those
advocating violence within and sanctions
from outside the Union, I appeal to you
to have him transferred immediately to
some hospital, where as much publicity as
possible is given to the fact that, although
he must serve the sentence imposed on
him, he still receives the best care the
medical profession can afford him.
We are not helping the white man’s
survival by forgetting the civilisation we
stand for.
Hoping that you will stop a sadistic
underling's way of doing his duty in view
of the bad political effects this treatment
is bound to have.
L. M. OPPENHEIMER
Dover Heights (NSW).
ORGANISATION
Sir,
Your National Note Bookkeeper's cor-
respondent was way out in the report of
“the first meeting of the newly-formed
writers’ trade union” (Bulletin, No-
vember 3). Since the printed word is apt
to be taken as gospel by future (as by
past) historians it is as well that the
record should be straight.
A meeting consisting of two delegates
from a number of writers’ and other
literary organisations was held to consider
the possibility of forming an organisation
based possibly on the Authors’ Society in
England. The proceedings were informal;
the discussion was largely a matter of
suggestion, question, and answer.
On this point, it is proper that I should
point out that Don Houghton did not say
that “only unionist’s material should be
accepted for Australian radio and TV.”
Since the word “union - ’ was not used in
connection with the proposed organisa-
tion and since there is no organisation
in existence it is difficult to understand
how such a statement was attributed to
him.
The nearest the meeting came to being
formal was when, at the conclusion, I
pointed out that money would be needed
to carry out a proposal to see if the
authors in Australia were interested in
banding together. A resolution was then
moved that delegates report back to their
organisations their impressions of the
meeting and suggest that the sum of £5
be donated to cover the expenses of
sending a questionnaire to various pro-
fessional authors. No money was ac-
cepted at the meeting although Mr
Kevans did offer to pay for the Realist
Writers then and there. At the moment
the Fellowship of Australian Writers, as
the convening group, is bearing the
expenses.
WALTER W. STONE
Sydney.
President Fellowship of
Australian Writers.


REVIEWS
TELEVISION
OUT OF TUNE
By FRANK ROBERTS
After 10 minutes of a television
drama called “The Music Up-
stairs”, I wondered whether Mr Hayden,
MHR for Oxley, Qld, had seen this one.
Last week he was asking for legislation
“to ensure Australian actors and writers
more permanent work.” The lot engaged
in ”The Music Upstairs” deserve it,
somewhere south of Macquarie Island,
pulling sleds.
I stood it for 30 minutes, creating
some kind of endurance record, and
then switched to ”1 he Untouchables,”
probably included in Mr Hayden’s
blanket condemnation of “cheap, razzle-
dazzle entertainment from overseas.”
“The Music Upstairs,” script by
Michael Noonan, produced by William
Sterling in Melbourne for the ABC, con-
cerned three newly graduated doctors
named Joe, Tom and Ruth, and the
AMA should sue for defamation. These
were shown standing around a car with
a broken headlamp. They had hit a
man and run.
After some queasy debate on the
rights or wrongs of their action they
went into a pub, where they were going
to hold a graduation party, and told one
another their life stories, revealing some
weird motivations for not reporting the
accident, and a readiness to believe there
had not been one. Then an old lady
rushed in and said there was a man
lying in a garden up the road. He
needed a doctor. The scene shifted to
an old gent lying groaning and writhing.
A detective arrived, hotly pursued by a
Melbourne ambulance with a par-
ticularly tinny bell. I’ve seen more
realism at a Christmas panto.
It was trash, and without even the
virtue of being sincere trash, as some
new writers’ efforts are.
Unfortunately this is what well-mean-
ing but misguided people like Mr
Hayden would foist on viewers. Mr H.
wants a greater proportion of pro-
grammes from Australian sources.
Because imported films show sex, sadism
and violence, young Australians are
“undergoing a training in detrimental
behaviour.” If anyone believes that “pro-
grammes from Australian sources”
would provide something very different,
he never listened to radio in its heyday.
Australian writers and actors should
have had it made in radio. There were
very few imported programmes, apart
from BBC variety. Most of the “dramas”
were written and acted by Australians,
and with rare exceptions they were as
Australian as the Bronx.
The production companies ground out
an endless chain of “series” with
American heroes, because these were
saleable commodities in New Zealand,
Africa, Canada, the Orient and some-
times the U.S.A. They had the standard
measure of violence and implied sex.
They gave employment to a small
number of writers with mass production
talents, including Michael Noonan, and
a small coterie of actors. But that was
the only benefit any Australians had
from them, and the collusive ban
on American transcriptions prevented
radio’s listeners hearing the best plays
and variety shows. They had to accept
third-rate work, and so will Australian
viewers on present trends. Have you
seen daytime television lately?
The sheer innocence of the propa-
gandists is visible in the appointment of
a Parliamentary committee to find “ways
of encouraging Australian television pro-
duction,” and its first action, a request
for advice from the television producers.
That is rather like asking a tiger the
way to its stomach.
We are left to wonder why some of
the democrats in Parliament have no
faith in the selective intelligence of the
people. If they want to help Australian
television production, they should see
that it has strong competition from the
best overseas scripts, film and tape, even
if it means subsidising quality imports.
They should not seek to repeat the
closed shop for drama and variety that
existed during radio’s first 25 years.
That did Australian talent much harm
by leaving it in a mirror-lined vacuum
where it sat convinced it was the best
in the world. In that 25 years radio
produced no visibly talented writers, it
got its best comedians from vaudeville,
and its few competent actors were heard
playing themselves ad nauseam.
During the same period, with no
suggestion that imports of books or
stories should be stopped to give the
locals full opportunity, the nation
managed to produce several writers good
enough to achieve world-wide publica-
tion.
These are facts and they should speak
for themselves. As a viewer, I seek pro-
tection from unrelieved mediocrity and
the people who want to smother me with
it in the name of sweet patriotism.
FILMS
INSIDE WASHINGTON
Advise and Consent. State and
suburban theatres. Sydney.
VS/hTHOUT doubt there is something
about the elaborate, dehumanised
routine of a courtroom or parliamentary
assembly that only serves to intensify
the drama and tension below the surface.
In the courtroom drama this has been
exploited to saturation, but the political
drama is a rarer and more difficult
genre. Producer-director Otto Preminger,
who made one of the most successful of
all courtroom films in “Anatomy of a
Murder.” applies the same technique
brilliantly to the making of a parlia-
mentary suspense thriller in his film
version of Allen Drury’s novel about
Washington intrigue, “Advise and Con-
sent.”
The film has been criticised for falsify-
ing the attitudes and motives of the
novel. But considered on its own merits
as a study of the interplay of person-
alities and principles in the steadily
rising pressure of a political crisis it is
an absorbing and consummately profes-
sional piece of work.
One never expects less than pro-
fessionalism from Preminger. He is one
of the most skilful and enterprising of
all American film makers. But his taste


is a more uncertain quality. His lack of
sensitivity, his often complaisant accept-
ance of commercial standards, have
flawed some of his best films and plunged
some of his others into bathos.
And there are flaws here, though rela-
tively few. Although the scenes in the
chambers and lobbies of the Capitol
which make up 90 per cent of the film
are unfailingly convincing, the ex-
cursions into the home life of the
participants carry more than a whiff of
soap opera. And the vulgarly obvious
“mood music” that clogs much of the
sound-track would in itself place
Preminger below the level of the truly
exacting artist.
These are minor irritations that one
wants to brush aside all the more
impatiently because the essential matter
of the film—the intrigues and chicaneries,
the conflicts of conscience and ex-
pediency, and above all the superbly
handled scenes in the Senate chamber—
is so good.
These Senate scenes are beautifully
controlled assemblages of detail, which
make, for once, truly creative use of the
Cinema Scope screen.
Preminger has assembled an admirable
cast, including so many veterans coaxed
out of retirement or Broadway that the
film becomes something of a sentimental
pilgrimage for the middle-aging filmgoer.
(“Good heavens, I thought he was dead”
was a typical nearby comment as the
credit titles rolled up.)
There is Charles Laughton, giving
what may well be remembered as the
performance of his lifetime as a
shambling, devious, conservative South-
ern senator. Walter Pidgeon (looking
rather like Dean Acheson) is the
courteously tough majority leader.
Henry Fonda as always, conveying
much by the simplest means —is the
dedicated politician with a past whose
nomination as Secretary of State causes
the crisis. Effectively placed in smaller
roles are Franchot Tone as the ailing
President, Lew Ayres as the amiable
Vice-President and Burgess Meredith as
a broken, psychotic key witness.
Most of these old-timers, it must be
admitted, out-act the younger members
of the cast. Don Murray, for me, did
not measure up to the complexity of the
role of the young senator who is plunged
into an unendurable crisis of conscience;
George Grizzard is striking in a fairly
obvious way as the fanatic who destroys
him in the name of patriotism.
MARTIN LONG
THEATRE
IF YOU LIKE THAT SORT OF THING...
Carnival. Stewart and Merrill. Her
Majesty’s Theatre. Melbourne.
The Fantasticks. Jones and Schmidt.
Russell St. Theatre. Melbourne.
"Doth of these musicals have had con-
siderable success in America.
“Carnival” won a number of New York
critics’ awards when it first appeared
in 1960. “The Fantasticks” has been
playing off-Broadway since that same
year and, apparently, has become a
tourists’ delight. They are both good
shows, then, if you like that sort of
thing.
“Carnival” follows very closely the
story-line of a popular film of a few
years ago called, I think, “Lily”. A
smashed-up dancer has become an
embittered and unsuccessful puppeteer.
No longer able to make direct human
contact, he woos, through his puppets,
an innocent young waif who comes to
the carnival looking for work. He takes
her into his act as a kind of straight-
woman to the puppets, effective in the
role because she herself half-believes that
they are really alive. Eventually he wins
her healing affection.
There is a certain charm in this idea,
and it produces one delightful and
beautifully managed scene at the end of
the first act. But it is not an idea which
can be taken very seriously, and the
show tends to do this. Kevin Colson,
excellent as the puppeteer, is given
a number of heavily melodramatic
“Pagliacci”-like songs which approach
the absurd, and also slow the show down
to an unfortunate extent. And the
illusion is never fully established in this
production because Patricia Moore, as
the waif, is altogether too lady-like, too
precise in voice and gesture, too brittle.
Miss Moore’s talent is undoubted, but
she is here badly miscast.
The show has been brilliantly staged
by Lucia Victor, who was associated
with the New York production. Betty
Pounder’s dance sequences, based on
the original ones by Gower Champion,
are exciting and spectacular. Jill Perry-
man and Neil Curnow are excellent in
supporting roles. The music is pleasant,
but few of the tunes establish themselves
immediately.
“The Fantasticks” has been widely
praised for its originality. This is, per-
haps, too strong a word. It is certainly
unconventional by the standards of a
show like “Carnival.” It is performed on
a virtually bare stage, has a cast of only
eight, and uses only piano, harp and per-
cussion for musical support. Sub-titled
“A Parable about Love”, it mixes in
unusual proportions the lyrical, the
farcical, and the worldly-wise. But it
neither says anything new nor finds new
ways of saying things.
Nevertheless, it is a pleasant enter-
tainment. The music is charming and
singable, and the lines are intelligent, if
occasionally pretentious. There is some
disadvantage in having the players set
against nothing in particular, but
producer Stefan Haag has solved his
problems well, though he must some-
times have wished for a greater power
of isolation than he has here at his
disposal.
He is fortunate in having a very
strong cast, of whom Jon Dennis and
Judith Arthy, as the young people who
illustrate the parable, are especially
impressive. Alan Hopgood is an
excellent narrator.
JAMES MURPHY
DISTANT ECHOES
P\)R a Tasmanian theatre lover to read
A the reviews in The Bulletin is
like a gourmet on a diet turning the
pages of a French cookery book. The
unattainable richness of it all—Patrick
White, Pinter, Indian dancers, big
musicals. It was comforting for Tas-
manians to read of “Look Back in
Anger”, and of the Sydney arguments
about “East Lynne” (imagine having
enough people for two audiences for the
same play at the same time—or have
you?) as we have seen them both
recently, “Look Back in Anger” per-
formed by the Hobart Repertory Society,
produced by John Baldwin of the ABC,
and “East Lynne” by the National
Theatre Workshop, produced by their
tutor, Geoffrey Goldsmith.
But just as recipes never turn out
the same for two different cooks, so
Canberra's Rep’s “Look Back in Anger”
doesn’t seem to have met with the same
reception that Hobart Rep’s did. No
gasping with delight and shock? Familiar
with Jimmy Porter’s domestic set-up?
You poor sophisticates! We were dis-
gusted and horrified. Wives removed
husbands during the interval, letters
were written to the Press, there were
resignations from the Repertory Society.
If “Look Back in Anger” was too real
for us to get the message, whatever time
has decided that may be, “East Lynne”
was perhaps not real enough. Not that
even down here we wanted it straight,
but we wanted to be free to make our
own contrasts, and perhaps wipe away
a surreptitious, reminiscent tear, with-
out being told quite so forcibly from the


THE UNIVERSITY OF NEW ENGLAND
RESIDENTIAL SCHOOLS DURING JANUARY, FEBRUARY, 1963
• Stock Exchange and Investments January 25—February 8, 1963
A school which will cater for two classes of student, beginners who wish to become acquainted
with the techniques of investment analysis; those already familiar with investment practice who
would like to learn something of more advanced techniques.
• Management School January 25-28, 1963
For people in private industry or in government organisations who wish to strenqthen their
management ability.
Brochures giving details of these schools are obtainable from
THE DEPARTMENT OF ADULT EDUCATION,
University of New England, Armidale.
stage that this thing has dated, isn’t It
hilarious?
What have we now? “Don Giovanni,”
from the Elizabethan Theatre Opera
Company at the Theatre Royal this
arrived recently from the mainland,
accompanied by a revolving stage, not
yet in use. “The Tales of Hoffman” is
scheduled for January. For this, much
thanks.
“The Noble Spaniard”, written by
Somerset Maugham about 50 years ago,
will be at the Playhouse later this month.
Nothing to horrify here, quite safe for
Auntie Edna to don her fur wrap and
take her usual seat in the stalls. And
maybe when “fame has dimmed the
originality” some brave producer will
put on another controversial play,
Meanwhile, keep us in touch with what’s
happening in the theatre, won’t you?
MARYANN BEAMS
BLACK AND WHITE DREAMS
A Raisin In The Sun. Lorraine Hans-
berry. New Theatre.
F ots of old-fashioned earnestness
comes shining through this play
about an American negro family, and
every so often the earnestness threatens
to take over and run the show com-
pletely.
Despite these occasional tightrope
tensions, the play is a success. It is a
success because it gets across some
pretty convincing insights into the way
a black family living in a great white
city can feel. Money is what Miss
Hansberry sees as the barrier between
black and white. No negro owns or runs
a steel mill; no negro makes money out
of white people. There are rich negroes,
who’ve grown rich in the negro world,
but even they don’t sit down in the air-
conditioned clubs and swing big deals
with the white money.
In “Raisin in the Sun”, a negro
family the mother, her daughter, her
son and his wife and son, wait for the
dead father’s insurance money to come.
It is ten thousand dollars. The son wants
to invest it in a liquor store with some
big-dreaming, high-talking men he
knows. The mother wants to buy a real
house for all the family, and pay for
daughter’s schooling as a doctor.
The son loses most of the money, but
(for Miss Hansberry anyway) regains
his manhood at the play’s end. You may
agree with me that the last scenes of
the play become a frantic scurrying to
tidy up the plot, while the real play is
already over. Son has learnt that bad
dreams are no good for anyone, black
or white, and that good dreams are few
and worth fighting for.
This is a simple truth, and perhaps
not worth an entire play. What is
eminently worthwhile in the play is
something not at all apparent on the
surface. Despite the special pleading
for negro ways of life and thought, this
play need not have been about negroes
at all. Its problems are the problems of
all men, of any color.
John Armstrong’s production is served
well by fine playing from his actors,
though the pace of the play is too uni-
form. Mr Armstrong must let the
dialogue shift in rhythm more freely,
and inject some lift of tempo in the
high spots. But, if it’s involvement
you’re after, this is the play for you.
A casual visit to the Richmond
Players’ tenth birthday production,
“Would Any Gentleman?” provoked
some gloomy thinking about theatre
outside this city. Here was a group with
decidedly talented actors, a charming
old School of Arts auditorium, technic-
ally well equipped, a remarkably well-
executed setting (at heaven knows what
cost in labor and cash), all dedicated to
a worthless London comedy.
Nor was this the whole tragedy. To
see this play, well on its season of several
weeks, and on a rainy night, came an
audience so large and receptive that any
city little theatre would have swooned
with shock and delight. Sadly, the
audience was far from satisfied. True,
they were polite but it was plain that
they would have welcomed much better
stuff. Isn’t there an opening here for
something really first-jate by the Eliza-
bethan Theatre Trust? Could not
the Trust pay some four or five good
producers to go out on loan to country
and near-city groups, like this sturdy
Richmond Players company, to produce
good, meaty plays, and to train the
enthusiastic companies? It would be
£lO,OOO or £12,000 far better spent
than the Trust has been spending lately.
KEVON KEMP
ART
CHARM WITHOUT
STIMULUS
The Campion Paintings. Judy Cassab,
Gerard Van Putten. Argus Gallery.
Melbourne.
Yt/rm due respect to the painter and
"" sculptor exhibiting this week at the
Argus Gallery, the most notable event
of the week was the launching of a book,
“The Campion Paintings” of Leonard
French, published by Grayflower Press.
In every respect it is a remarkable and
important publication, which sets a
standard hitherto undreamed of in local
publishing. The text (by Vincent Buck-
ley), the plates, the typography, the
edited and documentation are all im-
peccable, and for my part there could
have been no better choice of painter.
Clearly the admiration which Leonard
French’s painting has aroused in both
publisher and writer has contributed to
the production of a work which does
honor to the painter and reflects his own
intelligence, intensity and exacting
standards.
Judy Cassab’s paintings consist mostly
of landscapes and abstractions, loosely
based on landscape themes. There is
something of the Impressionist in her
approach, and several of the landscapes,
often shadowy but very economical
“memories”, are most satisfying evoca-
tions of places. I confess I find the
abstractions difficult to grapple with.
They are very well organised and their
color toning and construction show a
highly refined taste. But the perceptions
tend to come in flashes, and there is
lacking a persistent coherence of theme
which makes it a charming rather then
a stimulating exhibition.
The same might be said of Gerard
Van Putten’s terracotta sculptures. He
has chosen very severe limits and the
squat, simple shapes easily become repe-
titive. On the other hand a few make
use of the limits to create agreeable
impressions of movement or intimacy.
It is sculpture which sets itself few
problems, but which has nonetheless a
certain modest charm.
BILL HANNAN


THE RED PAGE
FUN AND GAMES AT OXALIS COTTAGE
The Art Of Making Out
By PETER HASTINGS
Daddy, Are You Married? Ross Camp-
bell. Ure Smith. 17s. 6d.
T wonder how many parents realise that
Ross Campbell was the first man in
Australia to write a serious appreciation
of that universal pest—The Boy With
Everything? It was quite an achievement,
the result of a keen eye and keener ear.
History of a sort was made on that mem-
orable day when Mr Campbell wrote: —
“Lancelot was telling us the latest
news from school. ‘A boy now class
goes to all the shows at the Tivoli and
he saw the Ziegfeld Follies . . .”
“For years now I have been haunted
by this privileged character called ‘a
boy now class.’ He is Jones Junior, the
boy it is hard to keep up with. The
first time I heard of him was in the
early days of television. Transmission
had scarcely begun when Lancelot
announced: ‘A boy now class has a
television set.’ It was six months before
we got a set. When it was installed I
thought we were doing all right in the
status battle. But the boy now class
soon shot ahead.
“Lancelot reported: ‘A boy now class
has got a car and a baby and and a
pump-up scooter.’ This set a high stan-
dard which we could not expect to
reach in a hurry. In fact we have not
caught up with it yet. We have a car
and are going to have a baby, but we
are still without a pump-up scooter . . .
The question is, Will success spoil the
boy now class? I wonder.”
A boy now class was not Ross Camp-
bell’s only contribution in the field of
social science. He is also responsible for
isolating and describing one of the fiercest
of Australian mammals—the spectator
sports girl. Her name was Syl.
“I don’t know her other name. She
sat behind me at a Rugby League football
match. Syl attracted my attention by her
loud and pointed remarks to the players,
such as: ‘Push him out Harry!’ and: ‘You
can’t run without legs, Herb!” Her com-
ments showed expert knowledge of the
game and keen powers of concentration.
Also she seemed personally acquainted
with all the players. When talking about
them she usually put ‘the old’ before
their names. She would say to her friend
Doff: ‘The old Chick won't fall for that
one! or: ‘What's up with the old Clive
today?’. . . . ‘Clive wasn’t offside!’ she
exclaimed. ‘Oh you robber! I wish I’d
gone to the soccer now. Those Hungar-
ians got a big write-up last week. Come
on Ossie, give it to the orphan! Did you
see someone broke Landy’s record, Doff?
Hard luck on the old John. Look at
Seventeen tackling fresh air!’ ”
Mr Campbell’s book isn’t entirely com-
posed of social observations of this sort.
In fact most of the pieces in his book
concern the daily round at Oxalis Cottage
and have appeared in the Sydney Sunday
“Telegraph” each week for some years.
In his way Ross Campbell has become
quite an institution and hundreds of
thousands of people (particularly in
NSW) have come to know his children,
Lancelot, Theodora and Little Nell as
well as their own.
In the same way they have come to
look each week for his little essays on
domestic life. They always raise a smile—
—sometimes a wry one—and his observa-
tions are very acute. He knows his gar-
bage men, how to smooth the ruffled
feelings of an indignant wife, how to
handle delicate questions such as:
“Daddy, are you married?” Beginners
could do worse than read his account
of how to get around awkward requests
such as “Can I have a real watch for my
birthday?” (Experienced practitioners like
Campbell, by the way, don’t say “no”,
they hedge, expertly.) Anyway there’s
little need here to dwell on the sophisti-
cation and the deceptive simplicity which
makes Mr Campbell a pleasure to read. I
might pick a bone with him though. Why
didn't he include among his offerings one
of his beguiling pieces on domestic
Spoonerisms? Well, you can’t have every-
thing. Even without the Spoonerisms
you’ve got to hand it to the old Ross.
A WHITTLING OF WITS
Lives of the Wits. Hesketh Pearson.
Heinemann. 375. 3d.
TTesketh Pearson (if there is such a
person) now has a score of: one
score and one biographies!! Moreover,
his latest one isn’t one, it’s fourteen: nine
condensed versions of previous book-
size Lives, plus another five several of
which can reasonably be suspected of
being prototype models for twenty-chap-
ter jobs due to come off the assembly
line at some future time within the next
half-hour or so.
Yet, in general, they achieve the main
purpose of good biography: not merely
recording, but creating; bringing the chief
characters to life on the page, in the
settings of their times and in the com-
pany of their personal associates; with
also, as a liberally used ingredient in the
Pearson prescription, a strong spicing of
their sex performance, predominantly
plural, sometimes to the point of perhaps
defying emulation, sometimes of a kind
possibly unlikely to inspire plagiarism.
Of the fourteen selected for this new
book as the notable wits of more than
three centuries, the nine whittled down
from the Pearson industry’s preceding
book-size Lives, and roughly branded
with the particular varieties of wit which
they stand accused of having committed,
are Johnson (argument), Sydney Smith
(gaiety), Disraeli (epigram),' Henry
Labouchere (detachment), Whistler
(malice), W. S. Gilbert (absurdity), Beer-
bohm Tree (smartness), Wilde (frivolity),
Shaw (criticism). Of the other five, Swift
(hate) and Sheridan (ridicule) each get
double the space of any other in the
whole fourteen, not on comparative
status in the dock, but on the plea that
their characters were found to be “more
complicated, their careers more involved,
than the rest”. In the especially detailed
treatment given to them, they look safe,
bets for book-size biographies to come, if
not already in production. Chesterton
(analogy) looks a similarly safe bet. No
doubt from special author liking for
them, he and Sydney Smith, Oscar Wilde,
Shaw and Max Beerbohm (urbanity) all
seem to come more actually to life than
any of the others, though all have some
movement and breath in them.
It may be merely personal liking for
their kind that makes Sydney Smith,
Chesterton and Max Beerbohm seem the
most attractive, and probably their dub-
ious peculiarities that make Whistler and
Wilde the liveliest reading. Attraction
to the remaining one of the fourteen,
Hilaire Belloc (pugnacity), attaches more
to his fine prose than to his wit; he
seems an odd man out, a Johnsonian
heavyweight in this sort of company, but
lacking the Doctor’s crushing impressive-
ness as a public performer, and the light-
ness, brightness or liveliness of most of
the rest. . . .
And then, as another saddening after-
thought, what of that noted spice of the
illustrious sex of yesterday, so freely used
in the Pearson prescription that it fre-
quently outflavors all other ingredients?
Instance the share of Bernard Shaw, a
comparative softie in this company:


A young widow named Jenny Patter-
son “virtually raped” him on his twenty-
ninth birthday. Having lost his chastity,
he “sought her company whenever I
could find nothing better to do”. Their
intimacy continued for two or three
years, after which he got bored with her
exigent raptures, and when she made “a
very horrible scene” with his friend Flor-
ence Farr he never saw her again. Flor-
ence was an actress and Shaw shared her
sexual favours with a dozen other men
for some years, allowing many women to
fall in love with him without sensual
profit to themselves.
Even by the Shaw standard our bio-
graphical and autobiographical records
seem, in this respect, as bare as the
Nullarbor. It’s a wonder the Australian
species has survived.
CECIL MANN
THE DESERT PEOPLE
Desert People. M. J. Meggitt. Angus
& Robertson. 525. 6d.
A nthropologists always write more
entertainingly than they know. Next
time you are in your bath, practise this
poetic gem from Dr Meggitt: “The
djangala marry nungarai women and have
djambidjimba and nambidjimba children,
whereas the nagala daughters marry
djungarai men and have djabaldjari and
nabaldjari children." Or, if you prefer it,
you may chant: “As djambidjimba-
djangala and djagamara-djuburula are
both father-son couples, djambidjimba-
djagamara and djangala-djuburula are
both mother's mother’s brother-sister’s
daughter’s son pair.”
The curse of a great deal of Aus-
tralian anthropology has been that mas-
sive verbal Stonehenge produced by Spen-
cer and Gillen in the last century, a book
so thick that you could stub your toe on
it. Spencer and Gillen are the Grand Old
Men when it comes to classifications of
sub-groups W'ho cannot marry other sub-
groups. Let us agree that a witchetty grub
cannot marry a green parrot. We would
be quite satisfied, but S. & G. unearthed
a monumental structure of genealogical
prohibitions, and since then anthropolo-
gists have been constantly tempted to
seek more and more elaborate per-
mutations.
White Australians, who may be very
vague about their own cousins, are en-
chanted to think that tribes who have
plenty of time in some desert, always
know exactly who is related to whom,
and that the possum sub-sept can never
marry into the honey ant moiety. It
would be unfair to make quotations from
Dr Meggitt's long, scholarly sections on
“Intrafamilial Relationships” and “Extra-
familial Relationships” if one did not
question the tradition that, in the mid-
twentieth century, an anthropologist
should be awarded his spurs, or his docto-
ate, not on the valuable social study he
may or does carry out, but on his con-
tribution to genealogical classification.
Dr Meggitt in “Desert People” does
aim to give an all-round picture of a
primitive society, protected from more
than brief contact with whites, at least
until recent years, by the inaccessible na-
ture of their country. The Walbiri in
their tribal grounds between the Granites
and Mount Doreen were preserved from
pastoral penetration as much by their
reputation for toughness as by the lack
of water.
About 1910 two stray prospectors were
speared and a number of natives, none
of whom had anything to do with the
killing, were taken to Darwin and tried.
As the police turned them loose on the
outskirts of the town, they simply van-
ished, and for many years the Walbiri
avoided the Granites although it was an
important ritual centre. About 1928, the
Walbiri killed a prospector and wounded
another, and in return a police-led ex-
pedition wiped out several Walbiri camps.
The policeman, who admitted to killing
17 natives, was exonerated.
The gold rush to Tennant's Creek led
to that region being declared a pro-
hibited area for natives on the ground
that they were infected with venereal
granuloma. They were moved, for lack
of water, from one Government settle-
ment to another; not such a great hard-
ship, judging by Dr Meggitt’s account,
as groups would travel 200 miles in the
most appalling heat for a pleasant little
circumcision party.
In 1954-55, when Dr Meggitt and his
wife took up residence among the Wal-
biri, they numbered about 1400 and were
one of the largest tribes in the Northern
Territory and, I should say, about the
most primitive. They were an anthropolo-
gist's dream, as entrancing as a platypus
at the zoo.
Dr Meggitt was wise enough to take
his wife with him, who assisted in gather-
ing information about food-gathering and
childbirth which the women would not
willingly divulge to men. Beneath the
anthropologist's absorption with patri-
moieties, circumcision and initiation, you
feel his grasp of a people’s way of life and
thought, something about as difficult as to
hold a jellyfish on the blade of a knife.
One fascinating aspect of native
thought that he discusses is the idea of
“living space”. The Walbiri will take a
stroll of hundreds of miles across the
desert to visit relatives, but their actual
“living space" (like ours) is restricted by
the way they think. For instance, Dr
Meggitt explains that one side of a camp
lor three or four miles is exclusively the
women's hunting ground, and a Walbiri
tribesman wouid incur the same odium if
found there as in the ladies’ powder-
room* Neither may Walbiri women tres-
pass on the men's ground. “If women or
children have to travel by motor truck
along either of the northern roads,” says
Dr Meggitt “they must crouch face down-
ward and cover their eyes until they
have passed the men's country. They
may walk along the more easterly of
the roads only when accompanying their
husbands or fathers on hunting trips.
“They cannot walk on the other road at
all.” Just so with us, you don't usually
find women in the public bar of a hotel.
It is not included in their “living space.”
The Walbiri visiting a friend's camp
waited on the outskirts until a sponsor
came forward to conduct the visitor to
the right group of shelters. The Walbiri
seem to have got themselves in a fix with
too much etiquette, or, as Dr Meggitt
would say, “tend to structure their socio-
geographical environment into regions of
greater or less space of personal mobil-
ity. ’’ No tribesman would venture on
another tribe’s territory unless hot-footing
it from a group of enraged relatives when
he has broken the rules.
The important problem today is
whether the white man’s environment will
give aborigines such as the Walbiri
greater or less "living space”, a locale
where they can breathe freely without
infringing the white man’s rules. Sadly,
the Walbiri realize that superintendents
of settlements break up tribal fights,
frown upon polygamy and discourage girl-
children being given to elderly men to
rear into wives. Changes, changes, every-
where.
For the anthropologists much more
destructive is that outbreak of common-
sense exemplified in the elderly tribes-
man (not one of Dr Meggitt’s people)
who asked the doctor of a settlement to
circumcise his son. The boy could not
find a wife unless this was done, and the
father had thought out this short cut
through the maze of tribal ceremonies,
painting and chanting. And what be-
comes of all those mazes of mother's-
sisler's-son's cousins, referred thereafter
as M.S.S.C., if, as one anthropologist
found out when he investigated a group
by a waterhole, one of the elders said
simply, “No trouble. We all one mob
together.”
Dr Meggitt, whose main study of the
Walbiri seems to have suffered that de-
lay in publication which is far too often
the lot of Australian works of scholar-
slop, took the trouble to return to Walbiri
territory in 1960 to assure himself that
Walbiri social development had followed
the lines he predicted. The Walbiri, he
feels, will move from “intelligent parasi-
tism’’ on Europeans to a form of inte-
gration and adapted behaviour. “I be-
lieve, he concludes, “that the prospects


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. "D", Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A Service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if
successful.
of successful, long-term assimilation are
nowhere brighter than among the Wal-
biri.” If you are surprised that Dr Meg-
gitt, who has not pulled any punches in
his study of the Walbiri, should express
such optimism, you might follow up his
book with some of the interesting mat-
erial issued by the Welfare Branch of the
Northern Territory Administration.
KYLIE TENNANT
THE ENGLISH V. THE DUTCH
Anglo-Dutch Rivalry in the Malay
World 1780-1824. Nicholas Tarling.
University of Queensland Press.
Cambridge University Press. 375. 6d.
A sense of pleasure which accom-
panied the receipt of this volume
was, I think, well-based. The period of
British expansion in the Far East during
the course of the Napoleonic Wars has
certainly received far less attention from
the Australian student than its high—
one might say its critical —significance
warrants. The period was vivid and
brilliant, the background as colorful as
any, the actors forthright and man-sized,
and their interplay a bewilderment of
swiftly-changing values.
Moreover it is good to welcome a book
from the newly-constituted University of
Queensland Press; and in this selection
it seems to be adequate to what must
be, after all, the prime function of a
University Press: the publication of pres-
tige volumes, especially those that fill a
gap in the reasonable dispersal of material
linked with some branch of study. In its
physical appearance the book measures
up to those pleasurable expectations, be-
ing well-presented, with a pleasantly re-
strained dust-jacket, excellent end-papers,
and a good binding; and if the margins
leave a little to be desired, the type and
paper are excellent.
On closer examination some of the
pleasures, at least, disappear. For since
the book was printed by Halstead Press,
and since Cambridge claims an equal
credit for publishing, it’s difficult to
escape the assumption that the University
of Queensland Press is as yet little more
than an intermediary; its function is not
clearly indicated in this production, but
it seems a little way yet from the ideal
of a University Press working at a re-
warding capacity.
As to the book itself one can only
praise the erudition and the dogged per-
sistence that went to its construction.
Whatever it lacks is not scholarship. For
its 152 pages of body there are 123
sources given in the bibliography, and no
less than 475 notes, these latter, unfor-
tunately, collected in unwieldy packets
at the five chapter ends. There is a map
which is barely adequate, and is also diffi-
cult to use as reference.
But the erudition is masked by an
archaic, recondite style, producing tur-
gidity that puts a severe limitation upon
the communication which is, when all is
said, the main purpose of any writing.
This is nowhere better exemplified than
in the erratic use of place-names. Though
Siam (or Maung-Thai) in the Siamese
usage gets its modern appellation of Thai-
land, Dutch Guiana is consistently de-
scribed as “the settlements of Essequibo
and Demarary.” A paragraph which men-
tions France, the Netherlands, the United
States and England, ends with a reference
to a decision of “the Republic.” Again
and again the wider, looser term is em-
ployed where accuracy and clarity de-
mand particularisation. And again and
again the archaic name is used —as in the
example of Riau, which today, as far as
the resources of the average home lib-
rary re concerned, could be anywhere
in the Riouw Archipelago, possibly the
island of Bintang. The communication
would have been much clearer if the text,
in the first instance, mentioned its proxi-
mity to present-day Singapore.
What is this same home library to make
of Tarling’s reference to the Tutukorin
chank fishery? Britannica mentions no
“chanks,” neither does Chambers. If, by
persistence, the reader establishes that a
chank is a shell, one of the Tritons, he is
not much better informed. For what pur-
pose were chanks fished? And where
were they sold? Relatives of chanks are
to be found in Australia, but not even
Joyce Allan’s informative work on shells
elucidates the mystery of their commer-
cial value. The phrase communicates, as
other phrases in the book, to a most
limited circle of readers.
Yet the Anglo-Dutch rivalry was
played out against a background that,
with proper exposition, could have held
a wide public absorbed, even enthralled.
It is not sufficient for a writer to be a
shallow researcher; a communication
must be made and the book is to be
judged by the extent and quality of that
communication. In this larger sense
Anglo-Dutch Rivalry in the Malay World
may be deemed a failure.
OLAF RUHEN
HIGH SEAS
High Latitude. John King Davis.
Melbourne University Press. 455.
T>ooks that deal with the sea and men
in ships poised against natural
hazards all too often bog down in the
writer's intoxication with his personal
remembered dramas. The sea and its
vicissitudes only too often gives us mate-
rial that borders on the melodramatic
even in these days of electronic naviga-
tion and stabilised hulls.
A book like “High Latitude” is easy
to read and downright satisfying simply
because this veteran of sailing ship days
writes in the controlled concise manner
of the seaman making up his ship’s log.
He traces his own experiences from
the time he ran away to sea in Cape
Town in 1900, through apprenticeship in
sail to command of Antarctic exploration
vessels.
Captain Davis, a master mariner
holding the highest obtainable ticket, has
a scope of material that in less-disciplined
hands might spill into the lurid. But be-
cause the language of the seaman must
be unambiguous (the International Rules
of Navigation are a paragon of concise
writing) his work carries the mark of
complete credibility without losing the
inherent dramatics of the situations he
describes.
His first four chapters relate his ex-
periences as a youngster serving his time
in windjammers. When he held only a
chief mate’s ticket he was appointed
chief officer of Shackleton’s “Nimrod”, a
wooden-hulled cockleshell of 334 gross
tons.
In 1908 he first sailed to the Antarctic,
an area largely uncharted and known to
mariners as the last desolation of bad
weather and endless ice. The rugged
white world of the “high latitudes” caught
him in its grip and he continued to be
associated with South Polar exploration
on and off until 1929.
Captain Davis gives only superficial
glances at the explorers Shackleton,
Mawson, Mackintosh and the others—-
but his descriptions of the tasks they
faced and their handling of them brings
these heroes of a half a century ago all
the more vividly to life.
His conservative outlook sometimes
lapses into Victorian homilies, but this
78-year-old mariner handles most of his
book as capably as he once handled the
ships he commanded.
CHARLES SRIBER


POETRY
Domestic interior
The children in bed asleep, a quartet playing,
The house at ease, the fire comfortably burning
In a hush of all’s well
Every circumstance an obedient servant
To contentment flowering calmly in its season
Nothing that is not ours in a horizon
Restricted to four walls
And windows curtained against one black
observant
Slit of a pupil that turns a narrow gaze
Into the room: because unnoticed, powerless
To undo our peace of mind.
Only later, when a child in nightmare
Wakes us and we rouse
To grope in darkness through a stranger’s house
Even the light left burning will not find
Again for us the warm world of our armchair.
J. R. ROWLAND
Sunday Morning
Fresh on cock-crow
This morning’s bitter Sunday wind
Cuts the tennis-skirts tightly
’Round the players’ legs.
Like mushrooms in sporadic sproutings
Through green dry canals, children
Suffer the wintry streets to come
To hymn in early church.
My dog is here to watch us play;
Lined with silver his collar shines,
His coat glitters like a heap of fish
Trawled from the gull-swept sea
Into the boat, heavy as nets
Hung in the sun to dry.
A girl crosses the sandy court
To pet the animal.
Mist is on the distant mountains,
The sky a remote and bitter thing;
My girl-friend’s let me down again,
Let her go hang!
Judas
Moves off independently along the path
Dropping her little tears of loneliness;
“What a cute name for a dog — Judas!”
By now the church’s crew of speckled children
Have found their ship; its stone masts
Nudge a nearby hawthorn for the skyline,
And Judas eyes a neighbour’s fowls
With murder on his breath. It’s true,
No-one knows a woman’s actions in advance —
I ask too much.
The sabbath chimes strain through
The tall wire fence, and bouncing carillons
Sport abruptly in the solemn sun.
Flower and nettle sprout together in the morning
air,
For love of life, for love of one another.
WILSON BLACKMAN
Seven Lustres
(On My 35th Birthday)
Though looking back I wrote of all the years
That lead me to this hill of clay or gold,
I do not know if when my moment nears
Death's waiting cloud their lustres still shall hold
What meaning mind and memory give them now,
More than I know the ultimate design
And nature of today as I pause so,
Half way along its hours where only halt are mine.
But life half lived or learned to any stroke
Of adult time might peg its limit there,
And then this thinking man, if his tongue spoke
Before sense failed in ending’s stony stare,
Would have his past and present fractions whole
And worth the putting down as one hies view,
Not wide as grey men’s from their greater knoll,
Yet for its height above the world perhaps as true.
My years are thirty-five, not dressed or grained
With elder wisdom's understanding nods
Or grave bewares, nor by youth’s words maintained
Entirely; rather made of middle moods
Where dreams become impatience, doubts a glare,
Because this body stamps its feet in health
Whenever feelings move that want its care.
And only love the most unrealised is stealth.
1 could cry Ichabod with beaten age
For what the mortgaged muscle costs the soul,
But softened in their bruising iron cage
By slippered minutes that their soreness stole
Men still climb each a little lonely hill,
Their witness ground, to call a glory in.
1 summon seven lustres, good and ill.
And so rise with them growing as I am again.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM
Eden
Though once I thought that Eden was a place
Which came from chaos and might grow again,
Soon I learnt a means to separate
The paradise in a book
From colder undulations made of stone.
I found it simple then to ridicule
The nakedness, the serpent and the fruit,
And childhood with its plot of innocence;
But time has shown me how
Eden may still exist despite a fall:
It is a garden which demands this name
nd swells with fruit above two Cranach nudes
Ignoring light and foliage across a void—
A realm where appetite
Is always possible, but stays unreal.
Perhaps all Edens have been visualized,
Although a prisoner may war against
His brute Antarctica, and claim visions.
A child that stares at me
Is lonelier than years of ice and snow.
R. A. SIMPSON


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
Wanted: New Tariff Watchdog
When bureaucrats and lobbyists join forces in an attempt
to bend a Government instrumentality to their ways
of thinking, life can be unbearable for a principled
chairman of such a body unless he happens to think along
the same lines. This, rather than political pressure or sugges-
tion, seems to be the root of the trouble causing the resignation
of Sir Leslie Melville, chairman of the Tariff Board.
It was bad enough for the Tariff Board to have the Special
Authority flung into its tariff-making province in the first place.
But it was a lot worse for it to have to suffer some of the open
rebukes from lobbyists and jaundiced behind-the-scenes
remarks from Trade officials when the Board refused, in a
series of cases, to write the Special Authority’s temporary
duties into permanent tariffs.
Sir Leslie's departure is highly regrettable, if only for his
worth as probably our top economist in stopping a riot of excess
costs of protection at the most effective point, but there may be
compensations if it stops the encroachment of lobbyists and
bureaucrats on the statutory independence of the Tariff Board.
It is now up to the Government to drive a wedge between
the lobbyists and the Board and to see that in future the Special
Authority works in the closest co-operation with it or even as an
integral part of it. These are the vital matters. Others such
as who recruits the Tariff Board's staff are of only minor
importance.
This is not to say there is no urgent need for a clearer
definition of the Government's tariff policy, and also for a
general review of the present incidence of the tariff on costs of
production, economic activity and growth.
Where is the line to be drawn between political and economic
considerations in fixing tariffs for particular industries? What
role is to be given to the tariff in assisting the maximising of
employment in this country?
It is hopeless if the Tariff Board is to be expected merely
to make deep objective investigations into the competitive effi-
ciency of industries applying for protection and to find its
recommendations ridiculed by lobbyists, Trade Department
officials and even the Government who may see the role of the
tariff from different angles.
The raison d'etre of the Tariff Board is to act as the guardian
the general public interest in seeing that the excess costs
°f the tariff are kept to a minimum, and to ensure that
Pressure on the Government from industrial interests is not
allowed to dictate the level of tariff protection either for this
°r that industry or overall.
In losing Sir Leslie Melville we lose somebody of the old
school whose expertise in seeing beyond the overt effects of the
lariff in raising employment and output in particular indus-
trms, to the effects on the economy as a whole, was of a high
order.
This is very unfortunate. Such birds are rare these days
vv nen the superficial view is too often regarded as good
enough in economic judgments. Let us hope the Government
find another of the same calibre.
It was worse still for the Board to find itself more and more
a captive of the Department of Trade which in its enthusiasm
for the tariff as an instrument for rescusitating industries in
the last year or more has made it lose sight of the dangers to
the whole economy from excess costs of protection.
The topmost Government hierarchy at least continues to pay
handsome verbal reverence to the notions of Tariff Board
independence and integrity. As recently as October 17, Mr
Menzies gave considered attention to these two characteristics
when announcing the establishment of an economic enquiry.
This enquiry (whose leading personnel must surely soon be
disclosed) is to examine, inter alia, “the effect of Customs
tariffs and other forms, direct or indirect, of protection on the
disposition of resources and on the broad economic objectives
stated.”
Yet Mr Menzies hastened to provide a lengthly assurance
that “the Government wishes to make it clear that it has the
firmest intention of preserving the full independence of the
Tariff Board as an advisory body established by Parliament,
its system of open and public enquiry and its high public
standing and prestige.”
The Prime Minister not unnaturally tried to make it clear
the Board did not create policy—“although its recommenda-
tions necessarily have a considerable influence on policy.”
Then he went on to declare the general conceptions behind
the day-to-day operation of the Australian tariff.
It has been designed to shelter local industries against the
competition of imports and to surround them with the pos-
sibilities of growth. “Protection has been the policy of all
Australian Governments since Federation. Our own policy
is clear; we are for effective protection for efficient Australian
industry,” Mr Menzies roundly affirmed.
The board's guaranteed independence or no, it seems preci-
sely within a controversial area of freer trade and pressurised,
heightened protection where many sectional battles are now
being fought. Sir Leslie's resignation has merely brought more
matters of principle into a wider public gaze.
Insofar as they involve the classic debate of protection
Wersus free trade, these battles are likely to become more
vigorous and not to diminish in the near future. It was surely
far from accidental that Australia's import restrictions, con-
sidered apart from purely internal situations, were removed at
a time when world trade barriers as a whole appeared to be
relaxing.
The move must have had high economic, even Treasury,
support, in an attempt to fit Australia for the likely pattern
and development of overseas trading. No one, of course, is
arguing for the sudden assassination of our necessary protec-
tionist impulses, but we have to be taught to live in a
staunchly competitive and flexible market.
Here the much discussed differences between decisions of
the Board and the Special Advisory Authority assume their
greatest interest. Many complaints are heard that the Board's


frequently reiterated criteria of “economic and efficient” have
never been succinctly and rigidly defined.
Up till now, however, these standards have been adminis-
tered with a clear, cool eye held upon longer-run and fore-
seeable commercial trends. Professor P. H. Karmel has justly
described them as “a system of rewards and punishments
which could become for a considerable section of manufac-
turing industry a partial substitute for the sanctions of the
competitive market.”
Yet it is not only such lofty affairs of principle that
the current alarms must bring to a head. More confined ques-
tions of technique and procedure should also be thrown into
the ring.
Some of these were most pointedly raised a week or two
ago by Mr R. J. Webster in an insufficiently publicised chair-
man's address to Bradford Cotton Mills Ltd. He was unable
to be quite so bland on textiles as the comment in the article
immediately below this.
“There are few competitive industries in Australia which
could satisfactorily operate under the conditions imposed on
the man-made fibre and cotton textile spinning and weaving
industries,” Mr Webster asserted.
In illustration, he mentioned that the man-made fibre in-
dustry had faced 13 Tariff Board enquiries in 12 years
“most of them in recent times, and we end up with some-
thing quite ineffective except over a limited range of low
price fabrics.” Cotton textiles have suffered 15 enquiries over
the last 12 years in Bradford's sections alone.
Mr Webster pleads for a new look, without “stops and
starts." In particular he indicates that the “difference between
a duty which enables an Australian industry to operate satisfac-
torily and one which is just sufficient to allow imported goods
to come into Australia has little effect on selling prices ”
Scientifically accurate tariff making has become ridiculous in
actual practice.
The departure of Sir Leslie Melville has concentrated de-
served attention on the eminence of his services and the
Government's evasions on the immediate cause of the resigna-
tion. It should lead straightway to a searching attempt to
modernise the principles and techniques which should inspire
the Board.
KICKING AGAINST
THE PRICKS
Tt is really remarkable that the textile industry has recently
been so loud in its criticism of Tariff Board decisions on
textiles when now it comes out with a report saying that most
sections of the industry are working at near record levels.
The only exceptions to the pattern of high and rising pro-
duction are some sections of the wool and knitted-outwear
sections of the industry in which the “softer” spots include
woven woollen cloth, rugs and blankets, cardigans, pullovers
and similar garments.
“With all economic indicators pointing upwards”, the re-
port says, “there is good reason to hope that in spite of the
higher level of imports the industry will be able to maintain
its present high level of employment and production.”
In spite of this welcome optimism and having shown what
it can do sheltered by high emergency tariffs, the industry
doesn’t seem too sure of what will happen in certain sections
without them. It still considers the outlook for the weaving
section of the wool industry and also for the man-made fibre
industry to be clouded as a result of the recent Tariff Board
decisions reducing duties on imports of these types of fabrics.
It is also sceptical about the future of furnishing fabrics
production in the light of the recent Tariff Board report. It
thinks present production levels are unlikely to recover rapidly
in this sector and is relying on assurances given by the Gov-
ernment that “damage will not be allowed to go uncorrected”.
“Import levels must be watched carefully”, the report
states, “so that prompt action may be taken by the Gov-
ernment if imports threaten employment.”
The report gives the impression that, as well as firing fami-
liar shots at imports, the industry is kicking against some of
the pricks of the changing demand for textiles. Can it in fact
hope to increase or even sustain activity in some of its old
but now shaky sectors in face of the vigorous advance of
say, man-made fibres?
It is roses, roses all the way in synthetics; and this side
of the industry, in which production of pure and synthetic
fibre fabrics has nearly doubled over the last year, looks set
for another major advance following ICIANZ's decision
to manufacture “terylene” in Victoria.
Perhaps it would be as well for the textile industry to
have another think on tariffs in respect of some of its other
products in the light of the changing pattern of demand.
SHAREHOLDERS TO
GET TOGETHER
TTaving now established itself firmly in Victoria, the Austra-
lian Shareholders’ Association is proposing to open a
branch in NSW next year, and the council would like to
hear of shareholders in Sydney who would be interested in
attending the inaugural meeting of the NSW branch. The
Bulletin would be pleased to put anyone in touch.
Last year in Victoria the association held a number of well
attended meetings, a lecture series on oil search which packed
the Assembly Hall in Collins Street for five nights and has
also drawn the attention of the Stock Exchange to various
matters of principle affecting shareholders’ rights, including:
® The unfairness of making bonus issues to shareholders
during the currency of options or convertible notes.
© The undesirability of companies making new issue
announcements to their own shareholders later than to
the Stock Exchange.
® The desirability that old-established companies should
comply with modern listing requirements.
® The desirability of allowing negative price quotations in
the case of certain shares where shareholders would
otherwise be deprived of a market.
The association also issued statements protesting against
the increased bank charges, drawing attention to the lack of
information being given by a board of directors seeking to
raise a large sum of money from the market, and advocating
certain improvements to the methods generally being used to
present company accounts.
So far the association has tended to concentrate on the
educational side of its activities, but realises there is much
still to be done in the field of reform. This aspect of the
association s activities will be given even greater emphasis in
the coming year.
BUILDING SOCIETIES AND
their liquidity
building society movement has never caught on in Aus-
tralia on the same scale as in Britain, but it made consider-
a le headway in the late 1950 s and, until the liquidity squeeze
last year was one of the most promising avenues for financing
private home building.
Some or the societies, including the second largest in Vic-
toria, are still reeling after their harrowing experience last year.
Faith in the movement is reduced to a low ebb, the flow of
deposit and share money has been reduced to a trickle, much of
t e money subscribed is virtually frozen and is currently earn-
ing noming for investors. This is the w'orst of all situations for
investors, who have to ride through the storms with the societies.


You’re so right...
insist on
‘BLACK &
WHITE’
Kv< •<*))).
(nouScotch!
* BLACK,
A> & iji
WHITE \
If J BUCHANAN &c\
IASCOW scotlm!
f //'4/’POINTU
rv*£# MAJ E STY 1 VA*. Q\s\vJ
SCOTCH WHISKY
BLACK& WHITE
SPECIAL BUND OF
BUCHANANS
CHOICE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
LdfjSocB^JLVtA&AJ-
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS
GLASGOW 6 LONDON
UINUuCHHS DISTILLERY MUHIN SPIrSIDI SCOH** 0
NET CONTENTS t PINT 6 FLUIO OZS
COHMOHW|»ITH CUUOML
V
vm
! Jf- : <u f ?
\ h:% i
S.
I >A •
.o-
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO. LTD., GLASGOW, SCOTLAND & LONDON
JB 148
Referring to one ot the societies a
) correspondent of The Bulletin has
written “recently it was stated that the
Government was having the affairs of
the society mentioned examined” and
asked “could you tell me if investors
have any chance of getting their money
back or has it all gone down the drain?”
Inquiries revealed that so far as that
particular society was concerned the
Government had investigated its affairs
and found imputation of management
abuses without foundation. At the same
time they threw some interesting light
on how things went so wrong.
Although there is no legal require-
ment to hold a minimum percentage of
building society funds in liquid form
(nor is there in the UK, though the
UK Building Societies’ Association
exerts an influence on its members in
this regard), the society mentioned had
124 p.c. of its funds in liquids in No-
vember 1960 when the Government’s
squeeze was imposed on the economy.
In ordinary circumstances this per-
centage of liquids would have been very
adequate. Indeed, it is high even on a
comparison with the average building
society in the UK.
However, its adequacy both for the
society’s lending programme and for
meeting interest and dividends to in-
vestors is closely related to the fulfil-
ment of obligation by lenders from the
society.
In the case of this particular society,
interest and capital repayments fell into
arrears in respect of about 30 p.c.
(£311,000) of the loans advanced. While
this gave it power to foreclose, such
action would have been against the
whole object of the society, which is
to put people into homes, not to evict
them.
Such a situation has been greatly to
the detriment of the society’s liquidity
and is mainly responsible for the failure
to maintain payments to investors in it.
in its turn, this failure has scared off
potential investors in the society, so that
the accrual of fresh funds from deposits
and shares has ceased.
This has completely upset the balance
the business and the position has
been exacerbated by the society’s obli-
gations to repay money borrowed from
institutions on a temporary basis, re-
payments which would otherwise have
been assured.
So the Society is seeking assistance
n ot only from the State Government,
which only a short time ago was in-
vestigating its conduct, but also from
tbe Reserve Bank.
However, if the building societies are
to receive direct aid from Government
sources, they must accept a measure of
c °ntrol or supervision over their ac-
tivities.


HOW TO INVEST
WITH SECURITY
It is remarkable how many people are
successful in the share market today in
spite of, or rather because of, market
fluctuations.
Few endeavours offer so many opportunities
for income and security as the use of PUT
and CALL options.
Share options can be used with very little
risk and almost unlimited possible profit.
YOU TOO CAN PARTICIPATE
IN THIS
Write or phone for explanatory brochure
today
if
324 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Phones 26-1024
ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
PRIVATE INVESTMENT LOOKS PROMISING
JTThe latest evidence of a revival in
A private investment is encouraging.
Providing capital inflow continues to
cover the current account deficit, or at
any rate enables us to sustain imports
at least at recent levels, a revival in
private investment can now proceed
without creating undue inflationary
pressures, at least until w'ell into 1963.
In the last year or more in w'hich
private investment has been lagging,
public investment has risen strongly, even
if not nearly sufficiently to make good
the former's lower contribution to the
total overall national investment. Gross
private investment dropped from £1,589
to £l,lll million in 1961-62 whereas ex-
penditure on public w'orks increased only
from £587 to £656 million.
These figures indicate the order of
the task of stepping up public investment
on the scale necessary to make good
a deficiency in income generation from
investment in face of a slump in private
investment such as experienced in 1961-
1962.
Theoretically, of course, the deficiency
could have been made good by public
investment, but, practically, this was out
of the question mainly for the reason
that the bulk of the drop in private
investment was in stocks.
Out of the total fall of £478 million
in private investment in 1961-62, £371
million represented a turnround in in-
vestment in stocks.
Whereas non-farm stocks increased by
£220 million in 1960-61 they declined
by £7O million last year, a turnround of
£290 million. Also, farm stocks increased
by £3l million in 1960-61 but dropped
by £5O million last year, a turnround of
£Bl million
Compared with the huge turnround of
£371 million in investment in stocks,
other private investment fell by only
£lO7 million and was spread over all
non-stocks categories, the sharpest decline
being in “other capital equipment”
that is, plant and machinery the
main item, from £460 to £420 million.
Stock building for private industry
being outside the province of the author-
ities, it is pertinent to note that even
excepting this major part of the fall in
private investment last year, the autho-
rities still failed to make good the fall
in other private investment by suffi-
ciently stepping up their own expenditure
on public works.
That is to say, whereas non-stocks
private investment dropped by £lO7 mil-
lion, public works expenditure increased
by only £69 million. The deficiency of
£3B million represented a drop in total
income impact of around £ll4 million,
which is more than merely marginally
significant considering total national
income increased by only £6B million
last year (from £5,864 to £5,932
million).
Nothing but a drastic change in busi-
ness expectations could have averted the
strong disinvestment in stocks last year,
and, even if more strident efforts had
been made to increase public investment,
the overall deficiency in private invest-
ment was far too big to be made good
by public investment.
But at least it might have been hoped
that an increase in public investment
w °uld compensate for the fall in non-
stocks private investment. As we have
seen the increase fell far short of doing
even that.
One need not go too deeply here into
the reasons for the poor response of
public investment to the necessities of
the situation last year, except to say that
early in the year the Government was
still too sceptical about the balance of
payments to attempt a more vigorous
assault on the problem of increasing
public investment and was always hoping
for a revival in business to reverse the
destocking movement.
Conceivably the authorities were
confused by their own statistics. For
while the national income accounts show
a huge drop of £478 million in gross
private investment in 1961-62, in his
paper on new capital expenditure (cov-
ering 78 per cent of industry) the Com-
monwealth Statistician records an actual
increase in new capital exenditure from
£493.0 to £495.2 million and an increase
from £206.8 to £218.4 million in repairs
and maintenance expenditure in 1961-62.
Ignoring the discrepancies in the of-
ficial figures for private investment, the
big question now is whether it can be
assumed from the Statistician’s estimates
for anticipated capital expenditure for
July-December, 1962 that private invest-
ment is moving decisively higher.
Briefly, new expenditure in the current
half year is expected to rise from an
actual total of £495.2 million in 1961-
62 to an annual rate of £549.2 million
and expenditure on repairs and mainten-
ance from £218.4 in 1961-62 to £226.4
million annual rate.
There is some support from the latest
balance of payments figures for some
increase having occurred in private
investment this year. For these indicated
a current account deficit of £96 million
for the first quarter of the year. (Current
account deficits are counted as funds
available for private investment. A swing
from a current deficit of £369 million in
1960-61 to one of only £8 million last
year largely accounts for a drop from
£1589 to £llll million in funds available
for private investment last year.)
Flowever, the rise in private invest-
ment may not be as big as indicated
either by the balance of payments or by
the Satistician's latest figures for anticip-
ated new capital expenditure and repairs
and maintenance. In the past anticip-
ations have sometimes proved to be too
optimistic.
Perhaps the most reassuring feature
of the latest figures is that the wholesale
and retail trades expect to increase their
new capital expendure from £41.4 million
(January-June 1962) to £53.0 million
(July-December 1962) In these indus-
tries the bulk of new investment is in
stocks, so if they are increasing their
expenditure by 2S per cent this half
year this is very good news, not only as
indicating their own improved expect-
ations but also as pointing to better utilis-
ation of industrial capacity and even
higher private investment on the way in
manufacturing industry as a whole
Another straw in the same wind is
seen in the trend of slocks held by the
retail trade in Melbourne. Although sales
in September were 0.4 per cent lower
than in September last year, stocks were
2./ per cent higher.


All the
family
will love
i 4
I only
Everybody's
CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on Bth March. 1950.
I°/
2/0
PER ANNUM
3 YEARS
The main business of
Cambridge Credit
Corporation Limited
is to make foans on
the security of first
mortgages on prop-
erty and the ac-
ceptance of selected
hire purchase agree-
ments.
FUNDS MAY BE WITHDRAWN IN A PERSONAL EMERGENCY
APPLICATIONS MUST BE MADE ON THE FORM ATTACHED
TO THE PROSPECTUS, WHICH IS NOW AVAILABLE FROM:
The Company’s Registered Offices
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Fir., Empire House, Corner Wharf and Que in Streets.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Stree',
PERTH: 81 St. George's Terrace.
CANBERRA: Ist Floor, Northbourne Chambers, Northbourne Ave., City.
NEWCASTLE WEST: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter Street.
WAGGA: 147 Bayliss Street.
Any Member of the Stock Exchange
or from any of fhe following Brokers fo The Issue:
RALPH W. KING & YU ILL (Members of fhe Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
TRUSTEES FOR THE NOTEHOLDERS:
Bankers & Traders Insurance Company Limited CCI46/AB
-Clip and Post Coupon-
TB 17/11
Cambridge Credit Corporation Limited,
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me without obligation a copy of the prospectus with application forms.
NAME
ADDRESS
HOW MUCH OIL AT MOONIE, CABAWIN?
Tf Union Oil can only guess at the
quantity of oil in the Moonie struc-
ture, as the manager, Mr D. T. Graves,
seemed to suggest in his statement last
week, outsiders, including the share
market, can only surmise.
In essence Union Oil now thinks
that as the result of drilling to date the
structure may well be a much more
complicated one than the conventional
domal anticlinal trap it was thought to
be from seismic surveys.
The main basis for this thinking
appears to be that the company has yet
to define the extent of the second oil
sands level located in Moonie No. 2.
This could well be an extensive strati-
graphic trap.
Union now expects this second level
to be located in further drilling and, as a
start to proving it, is considering drilling
some further holes infield. All the latest
wells have been on the flanks of the field,
the most recent, No. 9, flowing at 1130
barrels a day of 45 gravity oil from a
five-eighths of an inch bottom hole choke.
But the probable existence of this
stratigraphic trap is not the end of the
company's present puzzlement. It
believes that further complications exist
within the structure.
Moreover, Mr Graves has warned that,
without an indication from the company
as to the full depth of the sands and
their net thickness in each well, it would
be inadvisable for outsiders to jump to
any conclusions about the quantity of oil.
Possibly more interesting than all this
is Mr Graves’ remarks on Cabawin, for
these give support to the idea that the
company is only biding its time before
undertaking more drilling there, and
he also hints that in deciding to build its
pipeline to the coast Union could have
well been evaluing Cabawin as a com-
mercial proposition as well as Moonie.
Mr Graves stated that “there was no
attempt to write down the value of the
Cabawin strike.” Any alleged lowering
of flow rates due to fishing operations
fiad no substance in fact, he said. The
fishing operations were conducted at a
level well above the oil bearing sands
and before the company had drilled
into the oil sands.
“The Cabawin producer,’' he added,
“is being considered to evaluate its
economic possibilities and must be estim-
ated in the light of the depth of 10.000
feet in company with the 60 B/D flow
rate.”
While this doesn’t suggest the company
thinks Cabawin and its adjoining area
anything to write home about in terms
of the Moonie flows, there is a strong
implication that it intends to do a lot
more probing around there in the ex-
pectation of eventually bringing in the
field.


AS IT SEEMS TO THE ENGLISH
HEhe splendiferous names behind the
London-formed British Australian
Investment Trust Ltd were probably all
that was needed to give the £1.5 million
flotation issue a flying start. And the
sponsors went to the ordinary public
secure in the knowledge that four mil-
lion ss. shares at par had already at-
tracted the institutions. The remaining
two million shares were speedily over-
subscribed on the opening day,
November 8, thus enabling directors to
hold a confident prediction of closing
on the same day.
Actual dealings on London Stock Ex-
change were to start last Monday.
It looks really flattering to us, especi-
ally in view of the sad faces until so
recently preserved in certain quarters,
that a trust designed to “consist wholly
or mainly of Australian securities” has
been speedily taken up. The initial net
working capital, some £1,473,000,
should not make too much of a dent in
our now generally improving equity
markets.
Yet the managers, distinguished merch-
ant banker Samuel Montagu and Co.,
are assuredly going to be impelled by the
purest of conservative motives. In their
operations they are also to be abetted,
as investment advisers, by our own
Development Finance Corporation,
whose chairman and managing director
(Mr J. H. D. Marks) takes a place on the
BAIT board.
For the aims of the prospectus sound
exemplary and sober: “Only in excep-
tional circumstances will investments be
made in companies other than those with
proved profit records and who have
paid dividends regularly on their securi-
ties. It is not intended to invest the
company’s funds in speculative securi-
ties.”
So presumably the very best Austra-
lian image is to be allowed to put its
foot forward after a few previous shocks
which have startled London portfolio in-
vestors. With all this safety they will
doubtless be fairly content with the first
projected dividend, “totalling not less
than 34 p.c.” for 1963.
What should chiefly interest us here,
however, are the general economic
grounds on which directors recommend
participation in the trust. Not only do
they believe that the “Commomve: t’i of
Australia offers good prospects for
growth.”
A controversial King Charles’ head
receives unequivocal treatment. “It is
the board’s opinion that the possible
adverse effects on the Australian economy
of the United Kingdom’s entry into the
European Common Market have been
exaggerated.” If that statement be con-
sidered merely British partiality, please
to remember the Australian heavyweights
on the board Mr Marks and Mr O. W.
Crane, investment manager of the
MLC.
Even the 1962-63 Budget gets its meed
of praise. “It is clear . . . that the
Australian Government intends to pursue
the expansionary policies initiated earlier
in the year whilst, at the same time, not
neglecting the important objectives of
stable costs and prices.”
The fruits of Section 121.
Amid all the brouhaha provoked by
the Mount Morgan directors’ elec-
tion, it has perhaps been forgotten that
the company itself had already taken in
hand the matter of an ageing board. The
maverick Mr Peter Garrisson seems to
have overstated his case, to say the least.
As a result, he himself did not gain a
seat and the two eminent directors sub-
ject to age qualifications, Messrs Julius
Kruttschnitt and J. Malcolm Newman,
received insufficient votes to assure their
re-e'eetion.
Directors’ report for the 1961-62 year
coatCned these words, referring to senior
boa d members: “The board as a whole
considered it would not be in the best
interests of the company to lose the
services of all these directors at the one
time. It therefore planned to achieve
continuity of policy and fresh thought
on the company's problems by a measur-
ed reconstruction of the board over a
period of about 12 months.”
Under these plans, both Mr Krutt-
schnitt and Mr Newman were to offer
their resignations during the 1962-63
year “at a time which will best ensure
the company’s well-being.” Mount
Morgan’s prob'ems are certainly many,
but there was scarcely sufficient reason
to disturb the moderation of this scheme.
WAPET’S search expenditure
Tn The Bulletin of September 29 the
expenditure of West Australian
Petroleum Pty Ltd on the search for oil
in 1961-62 was underestimated.
Ampol Exploration Ltd’s share of
WAPET’S expenditure has been one-
seventh, and not one-fifth as stated, since
the entry of Shell into the venture. So
WAPET’S programme must have cost
over £ 1.1 million.
Foys branching out
Tnterim report of Mark Foys Ltd for
the six months to August 31 speaks
of sales being well in excess of the corres-
ponding six months of last year. The
four-year-old 12-1 p.c. dividend rate was
continued with an interim 6-f p.c.
In the last year to February group
profit collapsed to £18,838, and dividends
were held by resorting to reserves. Since
then the ratio of expenses to sales has
declined.
The annual meeting will be remem-
bered for its ten-hour struggle over
the world of business
"There you are, my boy! A brand new department for your very own, with
book-keepers, clerks, typistes—now let's see you pick out one or two and
sack 'em!"


CORPORATION LIMITED
FINANCING CUSTOMERS’ ACCOUNTS FOR
NE OF AUSTRALIA'S LARGEST CHAINS
OF DEPARTMENT STORES
AND ITS SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
• COX-ECONOMIC, PERTH
• SNOWS, SYDNEY
• FOYS, MELBOURNE
• FOY-BILSONS, COLAC
• FOYS (W.A.), PERTH
• WAUGHS, WOLLONGONG
• BRIGHTS, GEELONG
• MYERS, BENDIGO
• BOWRINGS, MILDURA
• PARTONS, DANDENONG
• MORSHEADS, BALLARAT
• GEORGES, MELBOURNE
Issue of
Registered
First Mortgage
DEBENTURE STOCK
INTEREST
RATE UP TO
o
mm
CO
GO cn
lO 2j
>-
4
YEARS
3
YEARS
7i%
UNDERWRITTEN BY:
lan POTTER and COMPANY
MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE & CANBERRA
MEMBER OF THE STOCK EXCHANGE OF MELBOURNE
APPLICATIONS
-may be lodged only on forms attached to the printed copies of the prospectus, which may be obtained from
• The Secretary, Cox Finance Corporation Limited, 75. Flinders Lane, Meib.
• The Manager of any store in the Cox Bros., Foy, George’s Group.
V*
• Any member of a Stock Exchange.
• Any office of the Underwriters.
lAN POTTER & CO.
MELBOURNE-SYDNEY-BRISBANE
ADELAIDE-CANBERRA
CJPIO/&


'
EARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£A413,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
directorships. The re-constituted board
has decided to spread to Sydney suburbs
with stores at Northbridge, Double Bay,
Rockdale, Eastwood and Parramatta.
At present the company has three small
retail units besides the parent store in
Liverpool Street.
Clyde’s improvement
A N improved profit from Clyde In-
dustries Ltd was a pleasing result.
The net profit from trading rose from
£513,041 to £555,100, and with the as-
sistance of capital profits of £86,623
(1961 £42,196) the company was able
to cover the unchanged dividend of 15
p.c.
The average capital employed in the
year to June 30, 1962, was greater owing
to the full entitlement for dividends of
ex-shareholders in Glazebrooks Paints
and Chemicals Ltd (acquired in Decem-
ber 1960).
Clyde expects to put Glazebrooks on
a profitable footing in the current finan-
cial year. Similar re-organisation has
taken place with British Standard Machi-
nery Co. Ltd, acquired in September
1959, and the chairman advised share-
holders that both these units brought
the group valuable real estate at low. cost.
The group balance sheet for 1961-62
shows a much healthier tone in company
finances. Stocks are £600,000 lower at
£5.2m., overdrafts reduced by almost
£lm. (to £450,000) and creditors down
£500,000 to £l,sm.
Though the economic climate was not
bright in the last year, some members
of the group made good progress, share-
holders were told.
At 10s. 2d. to yield 7.4 p.c. immedi-
ately the ss. shares appeal for recovery
prospects.
Sets a willing pace
lndustries Ltd's entry to
NSW retailing via 33 stores bought
from Reid Murray Holdings Ltd is not
its first excursion into retailing in Aus-
tralia. It already has Tasmanian retail
outlets through subsidiary T. J. Cane
and Co. Ltd, and in all States through
Homecrafts Pty Ltd and Malvern Star
Stores Pty Ltd.
These provide direct outlets for Astor
television sets, radios, refrigerators,
washing machines, dishwashers, air con-
ditioners, office furniture, Malvern Star
cycles, Lugon lamps, Vespa motor
scooters. But acquisition of so many
NSW stores, mostly in Sydney, will set
a willing pace for other manufacturers
and distributors.
H. G. Palmer (Consolidated) Ltd,
electrical goods distributor, has recently
entered into manufacturing, but this
must be much more difficult expansion
than the reverse.
Electronics paid about £600,000 cash
for the stores. This shows the manage-
ment is not daunted by the £4.6 million
in deposit and loan accounts coming up
for repayment by June 30, 1963.
The share market is not yet impressed,
and the 10s. shares of Electronics still
linger around 14s. 9d. to give a long
yield of 8.5 p.c. on the uncovered 12}
p.c. dividend.
Huge expansion plans
T>ower-Gas Corporation (Australa-
A sia) Pty Ltd’s intimation that it
has received a £2 million order from
ICIANZ for a complete integrated am-
monia and methanol synthesis plant to
be erected at Botany (NSW), is a re-
minder of the latter’s “through thick
and thin” expansion, as well as of its
increasing use of petroleum as a base
stock for chemicals. (The plant will
utilise naphtha gasified in a high pressure
catalytic reforming plant, the naphtha
to be supplied by the Caltex-Boral
group.)
Other big contracts for the complex
have recently been let to Simon Carves
(Australia) Pty Ltd and Humphrey’s
and Glasgow Ltd.
This is only one of several new pro-
jects being undertaken simultaneously by
ICIANZ. Also utilising petroleum pro-
ducts, it has under way a £2i million
scheme to produce ethylene oxide and a
range of derivatives at Botany, deriving
its feed stock from Shell’s Clyde refinery
as in the case of its new ethylene plant
at Botany.
Equally significant is the company’s
recently arranged deal which gives it a
50 p.c. share interest in a new company,
BNS (Australia) Ltd—lCl (UK) and
Courtauld’s (UK) have 25 p.c. each —to
produce terylene at Bayswater (Victoria),
where extensions, initially costing more
than £4 million, to the existing plant
(at present producing nylon products) are
envisaged. The first stage of these ex-
tensions is expected to be completed
early in 1964.
In addition to these, a new terminal
for handling soda ash is being built in
Melbourne, extensions are being made
to increase the capacity of the Osborne
(SA) alkali plant by 25 p.c., an explosive
reserve is being constructed at Port Wil-
liam (Corio Bay), the paints division has
big extensions under way in Sydney,
Commonwealth Fertilisers (now wholly-
owned) is being expanded, and a new
£ H million carbon tetra-chloride plant
is being erected at Botany.
Clearly ICIANZ now has considerably
higher commitments for capital expendi-
ture than the £l3 million mentioned by
the chairman at the meeting last Febru-
ary.
While the share market recognises the
massive developments being undertaken
by the group, as witness the current yield
of a mere 3.4 p.c. on the shares, none-
theless the share price is still only a
shilling or two above the year’s low of
38s. (it was up to 48s. in February)
despite the probability of a much im-
proved profit showing for the year end-
ing September 30. The results are due
shortly.
More plums from insurance
Tnsurance companies take the cake for
the most generous bonus distributors.
Queensland Insurance Co. Ltd is a
worthy member in that investment cate-
gory. It has just announced the ninth
bonus issue in the 76 years of the com-
pany’s life.
The current one will be made in the
proportion of one-for-five 20s. shares
held, from an apparently new revaluation
of assets and will capitalise £500,000 of
reserves.
Burns Philp, owning about 48 p.c. of
the issued capital, will be the major bene-
ficiary. Assuming Queensland continues
the 12} p.c. dividend rate —of which
there is little doubt—Burns Philp will
collect £lBO,OOO from its investment in
the next full year.


■w
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
PAID UP CAPITAL £775,000
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
WITH RIGHT OF RECALL
ON 30 DAYS’ NOTICE
3 months . . . . p.a.
6 months . . . . 6 °/° p.a.
9 months . ; . 6 1 /2> p.a.
12 months .so. 7% p.a.
18 months . . . . V/lV- p.a.
• FIXED DEPOSITS
2 years ..... B°/° p.a.
3 years ..... B p.a.
AND OVER
APPLICATIONS must be made
on the form enclosed with the
prospectus, which is obtainable
from
® Members of the Stock Exchange
® ANY BRANCH OF A.N.Z.
BANK
• The Registered Office of the
Company, William & Crown
Sts., Sydney. Telephone 31-0322
Financing the
distribution by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies of
world-famous
products
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
in Queensland
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
in Queensland
MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 10/9/62, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
Last shall be first
"OpHE first shall be last and the last shall
A be first” is obviously the thought be-
hind the naming of the prospective new
oil search float, Alliance Oil NL because
this particular name will put the com-
pany's shares at the top of the stock
exchanges' oil search lists.
Floated under the auspices of Boral
and Oil Development, with licences over
eight petroleum leases previously held by
Boral Exploration NL and with interests
in 16 areas including some sedimentary,
the issue (which will probably be of
£500,000 in ss. shares paid to Is.) will be
underwritten by brokers in Melbourne.
Sydney, Brisbane and Adelaide.
Boral will subscribe for 500,000 shares
and Timor Oil has taken a million shares
in the new company.
TV servicer progresses
proposed premium issue to be
made by Dickson Primer (Con-
solidated) Ltd. (ratio one-for-four ss.
shares and one for each 20s. note)
propels paid capital to just over £1
million. On balance date two years
ago it was £286,000, the same as when
the holding company was formed in
1951.
Profit for 1961-62 showed a small
absolute rise to £149,368 and a fractional
drop to 20.1 p.c. relative to the higher
average capital.
The market was remarkably un-
impressed by this very sound perform-
ance, and the shares continued to sell
about 14s. 3d. With Bs. 6d. to pay
on the new shares, the cost averages
down to 13s. Id. giving an eventual
yield of 5.8 p.c.
Perpetual growth
A handsome set of accounts which
escaped the attention of all but
some watchful types belongs to Perpetual
Trustee Co. Ltd. The new company
legislation brought forth quite a show of
strength by this company.
First consolidated accounts reveal free-
hold properties of £741,604, of which
£309,900 is at 1955 VG valuation and
additions since that date at cost less
amounts written off. Investments of
£352,300 include £307,290 for listed
shares and debentures which, on market
values at balance date June 30, were
worth £473,405.
Trust funds rose from the £ 122.7 mil-
lion shown for the parent for 1961 to
£136.4 million for the group in 1962.
Two-thirds of this was invested in equit-
ies. The company claims it is the largest
corporate trustee in the Southern Hemis-
phere.
The tax provision of £39,612 infers
that the declared profit of £42,535 is
conservatively stated, as befits a custodian
of other people’s affairs.
Investigation of the assets backing re-
veals that shareholders’ funds represent
£6/ 19/4 for each share paid to £2/ 10/-,
and the market value of the investments
gives an extra £l/13/3 weight to each
issued share.
Provided nothing unforeseen happens,
directors promise a dividend increase this
current year from 13f to 15 p.c.
Minimum price for the shares this year
was 995., but, since publication of 1961-
62 results, they have moved strongly to
£7/10/- to yield 5 p.c. on the antici-
pated new dividend rate. At this price,
they appear a superior investment for
widows and orphans than the banks.
New director
iy|R F. A. Brodie has been appointed a
director of Permanent Trustee Com-
pany of NSW Ltd in place of Mr F. B.
Fleming who has retired after serving
for more than 12 years.


MINING
WMC's TRIPLE -HEADED IMAGE
HTwo years ago Western Mining Cor-
poration, the near 30-year-old
Collins House mining group, was resting
largely on its gold mining laurels with
various proddings in other mineral fields
seemingly mere sidelines. The image was
still one of gold and a lot of hope in
other directions.
These last two years have seen the
image transformed. Gold is still provid-
ing the bulk of the group's revenue, but
some of the sidelines in the field of min-
eral exploration, notably bauxite and
iron, have ceased to be just hopes and,
if not yet spinning money for the com-
pany, will surely do so in high measure
in the not far distant future.
True enough the iron ore and bauxite-
aluminium developments are going to
mop up a lot of capital in the next year
or two, but at any rate the development
period in both cases seems likely to be
cut to the minimum judging by the
progress made in them to date.
In not much more than a year since
the WA Government accepted its tender,
WMC has made astonishing strides in
development drilling and exploration at
the WA Tallering, Koolanooka and Mt
Jackson iron ore deposits. I.ast week’s
report from these fields indicated un-
predicted extensions to ore suitable for
concentrating.
WMC has already enlisted the finan-
cial and technical co-operation of tw'O
US Mining companies, Hanna and
Homestake, in developing the field and
also in the eventual marketing of the
iron ore. A Japanese Iron and Steel
Mills delegation wfifich inspected the
deposits for the second time in July has
expressed keen interest in obtaining sup-
plies.
Ore from Tallering and Koolanooka
should be available next year, though
supplies from the Mt Jackson area (and
for the rest of the Yilgarn area) will
have to w'ait for the conversion of the
Kalgoorlie-Fremantle line to standard
guage, timed for completion in 1968.
Progress in the Alcoa project, also
initiated only last year, is equally rapid.
Alcoa of America strenuously denied a
report in Newsweek that the program-
ming of the project w'as being revised
on a “wait and see” view. In its con-
tradiction the US company said “we are
actually accelerating our plans for
Australia.”
Incidentally Comalco’s difficulties in
finding full finance for its £NZlllm.
aluminium smelting and power project
at Manapouri (NZ) could be acting as a
direct incentive to Alcoa to push ahead
more rapidly here. It seems unlikely that
Comalco would start building its alum-
ina plant in Queensland and so
provide cheap alumina for its Bell Bay
smelter without a firm assurance of
establishing the smelter at Manapouri
which is expected to take the bulk of
supplies from Weipa.
Though the Kwinana alumina plant
v/ill not be ready until the end of 1963,
operations at the Port Henry (Vic.)
smelter (at first with imported alumina)
v/ill start next March. WMC’s invest-
ment in Alcoa of Australia will not start
bearing fruit until the financial year
1964-65. Under an agreement with
Alcoa, except with the unanimous agree-
ment of the directors, at least one-third
of the net profits for each of the com-
pany’s financial years as from that
ending in 1965 will be distributed in
dividends.
WMC is the most favorably placed of
the Collins House partners in the Alcoa
project in that it received 3,402,778
fully paid £1 shares in the £4om.
capital of Alcoa of Australia in ex-
change for the transfer of physical
assets, whereas North Broken Hill and
Broken Hill South received only 486.1 1 L
shares each. WMC’s handsome alloca-
tion is largely the payoff for the exer-
tions of its subsidiary, Western Alumi-
nium (in which BHS and NBH had min-
ority interests).
In addition to this holding in Alcoa,
WMC has taken up 1,597,222 contribut-
ing shares, giving it a total interest of
five million shares, or 20 p.c.
Irrespective of the nearing earnings
horizon of the iron ore and bauxite-
aluminium projects and some lesser
satellites, such as lithium, talc, copper
and coal, WMC’s long established foot-
hold in gold continues to stand it in
good stead, providing the bulk of its
present earnings.
In the face of rising costs, with only
sparing assistance from subsidies, and
in the absence of a change in the price
of gold since the last devaluation in
1949, the group’s gold mining operations
have been largely a struggle to improve
payability and sustain as high a rate of
reserves development as possible in
recent years.
This backs-to-the-wall exercise has
been remarkably successful, though it
has not enabled the company any lati-
tude in dividend payments, the Is. a year
distribution on the ss. fully-paid shares
going on in monotonous regularity wuth
not very much left to tuck away in any
recent year.
In fact, only two of the three major
gold interests of the group have been
pulling their weight, Central Norseman
Gold Corporation (50 p.c. owned) and
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie (31 p.c.
owned). The former, which is a high-
grade proposition, yielding 11.66 dwts.
a ton last year, has kept up a steady 3s.
6d. a year payment on Western Mining’s
1,312,500 ss. fully paid shares in it, and
Is. a year has been consistently paid on
WMC’s 1,043,991 10s. fully-paid shares
in Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie, a medium
grade mine with a yield of 5.77 dwts.
a ton last year.
The bulk of the group’s gold output
of 316,033 ounces last year, which com-
prised about 30 p.c. of Australia’s total
production of newly mined gold during
the period, came from these two mines.
WMC’s gold results would have been
much more successful in recent years
had the low grade (3.01 dwts. a ton last
year) Great Western, in which the Cor-
poration has a 14 p.c. interest and to
whom it has loaned a net £717,868, put
up a reasonable performance instead of
making a series of heavy losses
(£283,448 last year). Great Western is
to cease operations in the next month
or so, thus stopping an expensive run-
ning sore on the Corporation’s gold
activities.
The Corporation doesn't expect to
benefit from the further financial assis-
tance afforded by the Federal Budget
last August, but it is expanding on the
gold side nonetheless.
It recently completed arrangements
with Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie for work-
ing the Mt Charlotte leases at the north-
ern end of the Kalgoorlie field as an
integral part of the Gold Mines of Kal-
goorlie’s operations.
Development work is going ahead
satisfactorily both at Central Norseman
(reserves about 3.3 years 1962 tonnage
milled) and GMK (just over two years
1962 milled tonnage). Further evidence
of expansive intentions on the gold side
is GMK's erection of four new generat-
ing units to replace power from the Kal-
goorlie Electric Power Corporation,
which is closing down early next year,
and to provide additional power to treat
Mt Charlotte ore.
To supplement internal resources,
GMK is to raise funds for these new
developments by way of a new issue of
10s. shares at 3s. discount on a two-for-
five basis to shareholders.
With this solid footing in gold, West-
ern Mining would stand to benefit
greatly in the event of a rise in the
price of the metal, particularly from
GMK with its lower grade ore bodies.
If a rise is not imminent just now, the
possibility enhances the Corporation's
future outlook, even if the prospects for
a substantial lift to earnings lie mainly
in aluminium and iron ore which, with
gold, make up the present triple-headed
image of the group.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
qSULLIV]\^
= %. ptyltd.
&& Mr'
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL”, BRISBANE
CONTRACTS, AND COAL, FOR THIESS
M/Hatever doubts may have chivvied
" shareholders of Thiess Holdings
after the 1960-61 results should be mostly
dissipated by the latest accounts and their
revelation of solid prospects for the years
ahead. In the earlier period there had
been much nervous chatter about the dire
backwash to be expected from certain
arbitrated contracts. This, together with
a widely held feeling that major jobs
might be imperilled by the squeeze kept
the investment atmosphere rather staid.
Both anxieties are now observed to be
vastly exaggerated. If the excitement of
the first three years following Stock Ex-
change listing in 1958 might be hard to
recapture, no qualms need prevail about
the group's unhindered capacity to secure
large, important and payable con-
tracts. The past year has seen as well the
final resolution of plans effectively to
work the Moura-Kianga coalfields in
association with the huge American Pea-
body Coal Co.
Nevertheless the stockmarkets continue
to evaluate all these possibilities quite
calmly. Though the ss. ordinaries have
hit 15s. 3d. during 1962, they are now
priced around 11s. 3d. to yield 5.6 p.c.
on an assured 12+ p.c. dividend. These
levels certainly show better judgment than
a low at 9s. Bd.
Yet investors should be careful not to
over-compensate in terms of the conven-
tional medium to long term ranking of
large-scale civil engineers and contractors.
They are, of course, well aware that pro-
fits of such enterprises are liable to be
variable. Thiess’s stature, however, and
the basic demands of an improving
economy look like guaranteeing moder-
ately smooth progress in the years ahead.
Nobody had particularly enthused over
1961. Disclosed profit appeared to drift
up by a mere £19,000 to £206,000, but
this represented a full 4 p.c. decline in
earning rate on capital heftily increased
by a one-for-four premium issue. It
seemed a far cry from the 33.4 p.c. earn-
ing rate of 1959. Worse than that, the
steady 12+ p.c. dividend was only lightly
covered.
Better fare has been provided for 1962.
Profit went to £295,000 and, better still,
earning rate moved forward again, to
15.1 p.c. The dividend, taking £211,000,
appeared comfortably protected.
Thiess has consistently embraced a
policy of writing off a large amount of
plant and machinery during any given
contract. Thereby, profit taken in each
year bears a realistic relationship to work
actually completed. By and large, the
apparent drop in earning rate is probably
masking a trend towards improved pro-
fitability.
Actual depreciation for 1962, at
£547,621, compares well with the pre-
vious year's £589,650. Yet, in view of a
post-depreciation increase in plant and
machinery from £2,515,208 to
£3,620,690, directors hasten to explain the
lower charge. The group’s previous
Snowy Mountains contract was finished
in June, 1961. “The present contract of
£l9 million commenced in January, 1962.
and plant was purchased towards the
close of the 1961-62 year for future use
and did not attract a heavy depreciation
charge.”
Directors also state their general pro-
cedure very clearly: “In a civil engineer-
ing business, where plant is required for
periods ranging over the length of con-
tracts and is then disposed of, the charge
for depreciation must be viewed in a
different light from the charge in a busi-
ness where plant is of a more fixed and
longer lasting character.”
The 1961-62 profit was slightly glamor-
ised with taxation down by £37,222 to
£16,942. Directors explain “that certain
subsidiaries which operated at a profit
during the year were able to apply past
losses against these profits before arriving
at a charge for taxation.”
As the accounts stood at June 30 last,
reserves and undivided profits,
£1,942,502, subject to intangibles of
£439,034, gave a net tangible assets back-
ing of Bs. lOd. to each ss. share. Con-
tracts on hand totalled £27 million, with
work yet to be completed £22.3 million.
Apart from the dramatic new Snowy
job, twice as valuable as the company's
first effort, the year’s most striking
achievement was completion of plans for
Moura-Kianga operations. Thiess here
joins equally with Peabody to form Thiess
BALANCE SHEET AND PROFIT STATEMENT SUMMARIES
i ™ £ ' ooo
+ une 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 1449 2 404 2692 3536 3981
Current liabilities 1239 1586 1713 2179 3329
poring capital 210 818 979 1357 652
Fixed assets 1171 997 1721 2642 3020
Investments 2 10 31 57 105.5
Total capital ”” "" 1383 1825 2731 4056 4727
Represented by:
Loan capital 30 5 157 135 463 83 ,
Ordinary capital 438 876 1314 1953 1953
Reserves 6 4 0 792 1282 1640 1943
Earnings ■ 106 146 187 2 06 295
Ord dividends 88 73 132 188 211
Surplus ... 18 * 73- 55 18 84
Earnings to ord. capital 24.2 33.4 17.7 13.7 15 1
Dividend rate 16 2/3 16 2/3 12J 12A, 12+
Dividend yield (a) 8 6.1 4.8 4.8 5 3
Price earnings ratio (a) 8.6 8.1 14.7 18.9 15 6
la) Based on last sale in month accounts presented.
Peabody Coal Pty, having paid capital at
£2 million.
Following Thiess’s assignment of its
leases to the joint company, Peabody has
taken on the raising of all developmental
finance, including the railway from coal
face to coast. “It is not expected that
further capital will be required from the
Thiess group,” directors add.
They are careful enough to indicate
that the company's investment in Thiess
Peabody is a long term project and divi-
dends are unlikely until a later stage.
Their hopes of future expanded contracts
with the Japanese steel industry are
plainly confirmed by the 1961-62 Joint
Coal Board report.
Group activities show every promise of
cultivating the wide range we have grown
used to in the past. Overall, and with
especial focus on producing favorable and
obvious earnings on their sizeable capital,
directors may not need to approach share-
holders for some time yet. Thus the im-
mediate promise of the group rests in its
performance. Share prices, as we hinted
above, can well take a fillip from this.


BRADFORD
COTTON MILLS LIMITED
Head Office: "BradmiH House", Cnr. Missenden & Parramatta Roads, Camperdown, N.S.W.
Speech of Mr. R. J. Webster (Chair-
man) to Stockholders at the Thirty-
fifth Annual Meeting of Bradford
Cotton Mills Limited, held on Wed-
nesday, 31st October, 1962, at
12 noon.
Ladies and Gentlemen.
From the statement set out in the
Annual Report, Stockholders will
have gathered something of the
problems which affected the opera-
tions of the Company during tire
period ended 30th June last.
The recession in our trading
operations —an experience widely
shared by the business community
in general was first felt by the
Company towards the end of the
third quarter of the 1960/61 period
As 1 reported at the time, however
the results were considered satis-
factory having regard to all the
circumstances.
The position in both the cotton
and man-made fibre divisions con-
tinued to deteriorate very seriously
The final results which follower
from this are set out in the report
now in your hands.
STOCK POSITION: During the period
under review production was closely
controlled in relation to sales and
the year ended with a most satis-
factory stock position both in rela-
tion to quantities and quality of the
goods. This close control has been
maintained, although necessarily
there has had to be some increase
to take care of the greatly improved
business conditions over the last
few months.
CURRENT PERIOD: The results for
the first three months of the current
period are very satisfactory indeed,
particularly as compared with the
period ended June 30th, 1961. We
read every day of improvement in
the current economic conditions as
compared with the corresponding
period of the previous year. This
comparison would seem to indicate
that great prosperity has returned.
Of course, such a comparison in
itself is meaningless. A company
could still show a marked improve-
ment for July, August and Septem-
ber, 1962, as compared with the
same months for 1961 and yet the
conditions could be very unsatis-
factory from a profit point of view.
I am pleased to be able to say,
how'ever, that if sales and profits
for the first three months of 1962
can be maintained for the next nine
months we will have a very satis-
factory year.
I have not sufficient confidence in
the position, however, to say that
there is every indication that this
will happen. Naturally we hope that
it will, but there are a few weak
spots showing up in the distance.
The information set out in the
Report and Balance Sheet is in-
formative and in detail and shows
the position of the Company very
clearly. There seems nothing further
I need to say about the individual
items, but I will be glad to answer
any questions which Stockholders
may wish to ask.
FINE SPINNING MILL: The erection
of the fine spinning mill is now al-
most completed. As the machinery
has been erected it has gone into
production. The plant has in every
way come up to expectations and
it is one which will have a high
rate of productivity. The additional
employment it is providing has
been very welcome to the district.
It is interesting to note that im-
mediately it became known that
Bradford Cotton Mills and other
companies proposed to enter the
fine cotton spinning business in Aus-
tralia, overseas suppliers commenced
to reduce their prices and in an
effort to get as much of this type
of yarn into the country as possible
before any duties could be imposed,
competition between the companies
affected brought about a very sub-
stantial fall in prices. There was no
noticeable change in the price of the
raw cotton used for spinning this
type of yarn and no other reduc-
tion jn cost figures which would be
in any way relative to the fall in
price could have taken place. It is
impossible to say, of course, but to
those of us engaged in the industry
it seems unlikely that these price
reductions would have taken place
except for the fact that the Aus-
tralian textile industry was coming
into the field.
MODERNISATION: Substantial expen-
diture has been undertaken in
modernising two of our mills. These
were not by any means inferior
plants, but in accordance with the
policy of the Company to take ad-
vantage of improvements which have
been made in equipment, which
would permit of reduced costs and
better quality products, it was de-
cided to face up to the substantial
expenditure this entailed.
MAN-MADE FIBRE DIVISION: The
man-made fibre section of the en-
terprise has continued on a three
shift basis throughout the year and
although working on small margins
of profit the results have been very
satisfactory. These results were par-
ticularly pleasing, accompanied as
they were by a reduction in prices
over a wide range of our products
and without any increases at all in
the remainder.
LANA-KNIT: Our venture into the
knitting field has proved highly
satisfactory. We have concentrated
on double knit jersey material,
which has been accepted by the
trade as being of the highest quality.
The raw material used has been al-
most entirely Australian spun wor-
sted yarn.
TARIFF PROTECTION: In the Report
there is a brief reference to pro-
blems associated with protective
duties.
I believe the whole tariff making
procedure needs to be changed and
made to fit in with the conditions
of manufacture and trade as they
exist today. In fact, the whole con-
ception of tariff making should be
overhauled. This is not to cast any
reflection on government adminis-
tration or the work of the Tariff
Board. All organisations have to
advance with the times. The
Minister for Trade has recognised
this and Tariff Board reorganisa-
tion, changes in procedure, the
power to impose quotas and other
measures have all been introduced
in an effort to speed up the work
of the Board and make it more
efficient and effective.
There are few competitive indus-
tries in Australia which could satis-
factorily operate under the condi-
tions imposed on the man-made
fibre and cotton textile spinning and
weaving industries. As I have al-
ready indicated, the man-made fibre
industry, including its ribbon and
furnishing sections, has been called
upon to face no less than thirteen
Tariff Board Inquiries in twelve
years, most of them in recent times,
and we end up with something quite
ineffective except over a limited
range of low price fabrics.
On the cotton textile side there
have been fifteen Tariff Board In-
quiries over the last twelve years
into only those sections of the cot-
ton industry covered by the opera-
tion of Bradford Cotton Mills.
T , r sa y tj le whole conception of
taiitl making needs a new look be-
cause I believe that it is not prac-
ticable by normal current conven-
tional methods to impose duties
which would in any way be protec-
tive to the cotton or man-made fibre
textile industries without becoming
absurd.
Until comparatively recent times
we were mainly concerned in tariff
making with complying with the
terms of what was commonly called
the Ottawa Agreement, or as it
subsequently became known, the
United Kingdom Agreement. In the
terms of this agreement the power
of imposing duties, so far as the
United Kingdom was concerned,
was taken from the Commonwealth
Government by virtue of the fact
that it undertook not to impose a
duty against the United Kingdom
in excess of that recommended by
the Tariff Board. Such a duty, it
was said, in effect should give the
United Kingdom manufacturers a
fair opportunity to compete with
Australian industry on a compar-
able basis. The duty having been
settled in terms of this agreement
the margin of protection required
against other countries (within the
limitations imposed by GATT) was
decided upon. At least this is the
way it seemed to work. This, gene-
rally speaking, seemed to work
satisfactorily.
Today, however, the story is a
very different one. The margin re-
quired over duties fixed for protec-
tion against the United Kingdom is
almost impossible to calculate and
in many cases would look ridiculous
in a tariff schedule, particularly in
cases where the GATT agreement
makes it necessary to maintain the
United Kingdom margin at existing
levels.
The prices of goods being shipped
to Australia from Czechoslovakia,
Russia and Poland are fixed by their
governments at prices which will
ensure that they will be sold in the
market to which they are exported.
There must, of course, be some
limits to the extent to which this
can be done, but the duties required
to ensure that the limits in this re-
spect have been reached have no
relation to practical tariff making.
The position is almost as bad in
some Eastern and South East Asian
countries.
Most of the countries in the world
are finding that they cannot either
protect their industries or hold down
imports by conventional duties. As
the Minister for Trade recently
pointed out in his Second Reading
Speech, some of the most industrial-
ised countries in the world find it
necessary to restrict imports in some
circumstances and that restriction


BR ADM ILL’
H JLO*l O
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
smum FAS
B. 156 a
is practised by the United States,
France, West Germany and Italy,'
and that Japan and communist
countries continuously employ pro-
tective devices other than tariff.
The recent International Textile
Agreement (to which Australia will
certainly be a signatory) which pe?
mits (without any breach of
GATT) the countries concerned
to limit the imports of cotton tex-
tiles of all sorts, including garments,
to a specified base period, came
into being as the result of some of
the most industrialised countries in
the world finding that they could
not protect their industries against
imports by ordinary conventional
tariff making procedures. It may
be that this will go some way to-
wards solving the Australian pro-
blem.
AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY HAS TO BE
PROTECTED: One of the principal
arguments used by those who op-
pose Australian industry is that we
must buy from other countries as
well as sell to them. Of course we
have to do this. At the same time
Australia has to be developed and
the population has to be expanded
and wide spread industry is essen-
tial to this end.
All of the Continental and Eur-
opean countries, the United King-
dom and the United States have
developed their secondary industries
under protective measures which
make our efforts at tariff making
appear baby-like by comparison.
In any case, surely the textile in-
dustry is not offending in this res-
pect. Even including the woollen
and worsted industry, which sup-
plies the requirements of the Aus-
tralian market almost in its entirety,
approximately 73% of textiles are
imported. Of our cotton textile
woven fabric requirements 86% are
imported. Australia is, in fact, the
biggest importer of cotton fabrics
(in value) in the world. (Latest
figures I have available are for
1960.) Furthermore, we are the
biggest buyers in the world of cot-
ton fabrics from Japan, from whom
in 1960 we purchased goods to the
value of $45,326,000.
It is surely not too much to ex-
pect that we should be allowed to
operate our mills in the most effi-
cient way and not in stops and
starts. Our decentralised mills and
the labour we employ directly and
indirectly make our mills important
economic units in the national life.
There is no justification for the
assumption that if a satisfactory
rate of protection is given to the
industry that the selling prices of
the goods produced will be calculat-
ed on the basis of the imported
value plus the duty, irrespective of
costs of production.
profit MARGIN: The difference be-
tween a duty which enables an Aus-
tralian industry to operate satisfac-
torily and one which is just sufficient
to allow imported goods to come
into Australia, has little effect oh
selling prices. If our plants are in
full operation generally speaking
we would be very satisfied with a
profit of 5% on our turnover. That
difference between not being able
to operate at all and operate satis-
factorily is covered by this margin,
so there is not much to work on.
Compare this with what happens
to the goods after we make them.
It is rarely that the first handler of
them would add less than 33% to
the price and there are some classes
of production important in value
and volume which go direct from
manufacturers to retailers where
50% and often as high as 55% is
immediately added to the price.
I am not suggesting that this is
exploitation; but I do suggest that
this is the field for research to find
ways and means of getting costs
down. There is a big margin on
which to work here, compared with
the narrow margin between the
cost to the manufacturer and his
selling price.
If margins are increased by dis-
tributors (or discounts increased as
between manufacturer and distri-
butor) by 5% or 10% nobody
pays any regard, but thousands of
hours are spent in an endeavour
to fix a duty which might result in
a price reduction of manufactured
goods of even 1%.
I feel that in the tariff making in
Australia there is an attempt to be
sceintifically so accurate that in
actual practice it becomes ridicul-
ous. No other country in the world
does this sort of thing. One of the
reasons for the constant inquiries
to which the industry has been sub-
jected is the attempt to be scienti-
fically accurate in definition and in
the manner in which the duties are
applied. If protection is extended to
a textile industry with margins so
narrow as to be defined by frac-
tions of ounces in weight and very
small variations in price, it just does
not work. Not much ingenuity is
required to vary cloth construction
in such a way as to change both
cost and weight, so as to bring it
outside the range of protective
duties. In some cases the use of cer-
tain colours, the printing of spots
hardly discernible, or making of
marks on the back of a fabric are
all that is required to defeat the
tariff.
APPRECIATION: We have a highly
skilled, well organised and content-
ed staff and work force in the Com-
pany. My appreciation and that of
the Board of Directors is extended
to them for their co-operation, hard
work and loyalty during a very
trying year.
R. J. WEBSTER
CHAIRMAN AND
MANAGING DIRECTOR.
LETTER TO THE EDITOR
Sir,
It was with interest that I read your
commentary concerning the standards of
the auditing profession under the heading
of Freighters Ltd (Bulletin, October
27). While, as was said, the attainment
of a precise stock figure is difficult, it is
also difficult to see how auditors—men
skilled in the examination of stock sheets
—can overlook a “deliberate overvalua-
tion” therein of £lOO,OOO.
Normal stock-audit procedures require,
inter alia, that while auditors may satisfy
themselves by test-checking the many
smaller and more numerous items listed
therein, they should, on the other hand,
religiously follow through all the larger
or relatively substantial ones.
It is easy to be wise after the event,
of course, and one must guard against
harshness, especially when the nature of
the information available at the time of
the audit is an unknown quantity. At
the same time it seems that stated values
which can incorporate a “deliberate in-
flation” of £lOO,OOO could hardly be
other than substantial and that they there-
fore should have been subjected to special
tests.
By remaining calm and untroubled in
the face of recently-publicised transgres-
sions, accountancy bodies add nothing to
the lustre of their profession.
In fairness, it should be said that an
exact profit is virtually impossible to
compute, due to the intrusion of estimate
and opinion which must occur in every
balance sheet and profit and loss account.
In the not-so-distant past it was practice
to counter speculative elements by con-
servatism, a procedure which, though not
wholly extinct, is now rocking on rubbery
knees.
Recent excursions into the realm of
precise profit calculations—the Latec
debacle, for instance —should induce the
present dispensers of standards and certi-
ficates to call a halt, to ponder whether,
after all, the shield of conservatism is not
a better guardian of ethics than the
slender fabric wrought by the exuber-
ance of today’s advanced thinkers.
It has been said, and truly said, that
poor production technique has slain its
hundreds but that poor financial manage-
ment has slain its thousands. This is an-
other way of saying that the accountancy
profession stands at the Thermopylae of
the commercial universe—that, however
expert production methods may be, a
company can still be started down the
slippery-dip to oblivion by inefficient and
indifferent accountancy standards.
R. C. DALTON
Adelaide, SA


SPECULATOR’S DIARY
T've become a socialist.
Last weekend I decided to get away
from it all and have a couple of days on
the Gold Coast. I checked with the air-
lines. T.A.A. had a flight at 11.35 a.m.,
Ansett-A.N.A. at 11.45 a.m. No other
flights to Coolangatta that day. That’s
rationalisation for you. I booked with
Ansett but got to Mascot in time to get
the T.A.A. flight should the Ansett plane
be late. I was assured the Ansett plane
would leave on time.
Just after the T.A.A. plane took off
came the inevitable announcement,
“Ansett-ANA regret to advise . . .” We
took off an hour late with Mr. Ansett’s
reputation sadly tarnished.
For the return trip, I tried Mr Mc-
Cusker’s new Brisbane Limited Express.
It left on time and arrived on time. 1
was able to sleep comfortably in an air-
conditioned “twinette” and arrived at
work shaved, showered and my shoes
shone. Breakfast might not have been
served the way Mother did it. But this
was offset by the feeling of superiority
gliding through Epping eating breakfast
while the suburban masses packed into
the electric trains.
All a bit irrelevant, I know. But a bad
advertisement for private enterprises and
a good one for the much-maligned Gov-
ernment railways.
Needless to say I’m not buying Ansett
shares.
I also avoided the popular urge to buy
Simalex. Everyone else seems to have
bought Simalex lately, but with a price
rise this year from ss. sd. to 9s. I feel
I'm a bit late on the Simalex scene.
Besides, with Hanimex and Kolotex, I
have my fill of companies with names
ending in “-ex”.
Instead 1 bought something equally
improbable 1,000 Prasby. This little
company comes to us by grace of Ame-
rican Bowling Corporation (R.1.P.).
Prasby took over American Bowling in a
complicated sort of manoeuvre some
twelve months or more ago. Prasby bides
its time making women’s underwear and
handkerchiefs. The shares are paid up
only to 3s. 6d. and last week were selling
at about 2s. Bd. although they had been
as high as 3s. sd. earlier in the year.
As a textile manufacturer, the company
made a profit of £20,000 last year,
equal to 15 p.c. on capital, and a maiden
3 p.c. dividend was paid. Profits for the
current year are apparently running at a
substantially higher rate.
So Prasby has been added to my list
of “crummy” stocks. The others aren't
doing too badly. Kauri has risen from
6s. 6d. to Bs. 3d., Rosslyn is up to 4s. 2d.
and Functional moved up from 7s. 7d.
to Bs. 3d. before going ex-diviciend 3|-d.
Vesta is the weak link at 3s. and Wancol
has not moved off its low price of 12s.
Bd. For a company that earned 12.6 p.c.
to capital and paid a dividend of 6f p.c.,
this seems unreasonably low.
My other buying interest this week
was in the rights market. Shipping News
put in a late run as the books closed
for the issue and the price firmed up to
255. 6d. a good omen for the rights.
But it was A. G. Campbell rights which
attracted me last week.
A. G. Campbell is a firm of wholesale
grocers whose aim is to help the small,
independent grocer Mrs Everage’s
“little man”. A. G. Campbell operates a
number of seif-service, wholesale stores
where retail grocers can come and buy
their supplies. These stores are dotted
around the metropolitan area at Cam-
perdown, Brookvale, Chatswood, Kirra-
wee, Liverpool, Penrith and now Parra-
matta. Turnover and profits have grown
steadily in the last few years and about
twice cover the 12i p.c. dividend. At
225. 6d. the 10s shares are yielding a
generous 5.6 p.c. I decided to go for
the rights and ordered 1,000 but at a
limit of 6s. 9d. (there is 15s. to be paid
on these). By week's end I had only
been able to get 200 but I’m not
prepared to raise my limit yet.
There was no shortage of cash to pay
for these relatively humble purchases.
Earlier in the week I sold my 500 R. W.
Miller which hadn't really made much
progress since 1 bought them when they
first listed in August at 17s. 3d. Never-
theless there was a small profit of £2O
to be taken.
At the end of the week I also took
a profit of £24 on my 500 Ferris which
suddenly rose up to 4s. 6d. Ferris may
at last be going on to better things but,
rather than push my luck anv further,
1 sold. Let’s hope it is not going to be
another experience like James Hardie,
which I sold last week at 99s only to
see the price promptly go up to £5 ss.
Reason, apparently, was another strong
recommendation for this company from
one of the more influential investment
services.
These various sales gave my Auto-
mobile and General Finance yet another
reprieve. Maybe they’ll just get life
imprisonment, too.
Bought
200 A. G. Campbell rights 6/9 £7O
1,000 Prasby at 2/8 £l3B
Sold
500 R. W. Miller at 18/9 £461
500 Ferris at 4/6 £lOB
These transactions left me in the rare
position of having a cash balance of
£330. The value of the portfolio im-
proved some £5O-odd during the week,
thanks largely to Marcus Clark which
responded as desired. The portfolio now
is:—
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
400 Auto and General
Finance 8/2/62 19/9 27/-
800 Goodwins 21/3/62 5/9 6/3
400 Mai leys 3/5/62 20/9 22/6
2,000 Hanimex 23/5/62 5/11 8/-
300 National Consol. 30/5/62 26/1 26/9
300 Marcus Clark notes 22/6/62 27/6 407-
100 CSR 1/8/61 49/- 52/-
400 AWA 10/8/62 20/- 19/9
1,000 Peter Lloyd 24/8/62 5/9 5/10
100 AOG 27/8/62 55/6 54/3
1,000 AN I 14/9/62 4/- 4/5
400 Western Mining 19/9/62 15/9 18/9
200 Shipping News 20/9/62 24/- 25/6
1,000 Vesta 27/9/62 3/9 37-
500 Kauri 11/10/62 6/6 8/3
400 Wancol 11/10/62 12/8 12/3
400 Nightingale 17/10/62 14/11 18/-
1,000 Rosslyn 26/10/62 3/6 4/2
400 A ala 31/10/62 9/9 10/3
400 Aeron 1/11/62 12/- 12/9
400 Functional 2/11/62 7/7 8/3
1,000 Prasby 8/11/62 2/8 2/3
200 A. G. Campbell
rights 9/11/62 6/9 6/9
"A copy of how to muzzle the Press—Hitlers? Stalin's?
Mussolini's? Or, er, Calwell's?"


COMBINED PRODUCTIONS
TELEVISION LIMITED
A company incorporated in New South Wales on
the 28tli day of August, 1962.
Issue of
8,000,000
ordinary
shares
of 5/- each at par*
The general nature of the proposed main
business is—
To obtain the grant to it of the third
commercial television licence for Sydney
and in the event of the application being
granted to conduct a commercial tele-
vision station in Sydney.
DIRECTORS
John Stephens Howie, B.Sc., 8.E.,
25 Wolseley Road,
Point Piper, New South Wales,
Company Director, Chairman and Managing
Director.
Samuel Saul Marshall,
30 Billyard Avenue,
Elizabeth Bay, N.S.W.,
Company Director.
Norman Roy McMorran.
7 Telopea Street,
Wollstonecraft, N.S.W.,
Investor.
Cecil Arthur Butler, 0.8. E.,
24 Kintore Street,
Wahroonga, N.S.W.,
Aviation Consultant.
Cornelius Murray Wells,
23 Peel Street,
Dover Heights, N.S.W..
Public Relations Consultant.
Hayes Gordon,
78 Macdougall Street,
Milsons Point, N.S.W.,
Theatrical Company Producer.
Paul Terry,
13 Neville Street,
Marrickville, N.S.W.,
Theatrical Producer.
Application for shares can only be accepted on
the printed form of application referred to in
and attached to a printed copy of the prospectus.
The prospectus can be obtained from the
following:
(a) The Company at its Registered Office at
Third Floor, 148 Phillip Street, Sydney.
(b) At any branch of the Bank of New South
Wales in New South Wales and the Australian
Capital Territory, or at the Chief Office in
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth or
Hobart.
(c) Any member of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
(d) The Underwriting Brokers to the issue,
Messrs. Roland Walton and Company,
Member of the Sydney Stock Exchange,
“Equity’ House,” 75-77 Pitt Street, Sydney,
or Alliance Chambers, 408 Collins Street,
Melbourne, who have underwritten the whole
issue of 8,000,000 shares.
ONE TO BUY
MOULDED PRODUCTS
FOR QUICK RISE
Recently published production statis-
tics on plastics and synthetic resins
used for moulding and extrusion are a
very interesting pointer to the state of
business of Australia’s greatest pro-
ducer of finished plastic goods, Moulded
Products (Australasia) Ltd.
Production in thousand hundredweight
showed the following trend:
1959 July-Dee 335.0
1960 Jan.-June 330.6
665.6
July-Dee 369.2
1961 Jan.-June 218.8
588.0
July-Dee 301.6
1962 Jan.-June 437.7
739.3
Moulded Products is one of those
companies balancing accounts on
December 31, which thus had a par-
ticularly difficult year in 1961, with two
poor half-years. In the New Year of
1962 most business has recovered
steadily, and judging by these statistics
plastics have made strong recovery.
Moreover, the production of plastics for
moulding and extrusion was 595,100
cwt in the 8 months to August 31, 1962,
almost double the 306,000 cwt. of the
previous corresponding period.
The net result of trading in 1961 was
£167,381 after tax of £29,688 and
depreciation £381,149. The 1960 profit,
a record, was £406,821 after £261,250
tax, so the 1961 result was a great shock
to followers of Moulded Products shares.
Previously the company had a history
of continuous profit improvements.
By the end of 1961, even after a
year’s poor trading, finances were such
that the development programme for
new products and plant could proceed
uninterrupted. During that year more
than £750,000 was spent on extensions,
replacements and improvements of plant
and facilities.
In the past, a high rate of earnings
had allowed the company to finance
expansion from within, plus occasional
issues of shares and notes to share-
holders. The 14 p.c. dividend was
maintained for the twelfth year in
succession in 1961 despite the need to
dive into reserves. Directors considered
trading conditions in 1961 were un-
usual and emergent.
The ss. shares are now obtainable
around 13s. where they yield 5.4 p.c.
In August directors announced sales
ar >d profits were materially better for
the 6 months to June, 1962, than for
the same period of 1961, though not yet
U P to 1960 levels. They expected a
satisfactory result for the full year if
this improved trend continued.


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
GROWTH POTENTIAL HERE
O. T. LEMPRIERE & CO. LTD
Incorporated: April 19, 1934, in
Melbourne.
Directors: D. McL. Ferguson,
chairman (director, Indoor Bowling
(A ust.) Ltd., Italiano Cheese Industries
Ltd, Noske Industries Ltd, Second
Century Corp. Ltd, Second Century
Investors’ Fund Inc.), A. H. Turner.
E. A. Andrews, C. R. Segrave, J. T.
T omasetti.
Nature of Business: Ore & metal
merchants, smelters, m achinery
merchants.
Capital: Authorised: £150,000 in £1
5 p.c. Cum. Pref. shares, £850,000 in
ss. Ord. shares.
Subsidiaries: Alloy Metal Co. Pty
Ltd, Rocklea Lead Products Pty Ltd,
Point Lookout Antimony Mines Pty
Ltd, Ballarat Metal Pty Ltd.
This is a company with growth poten-
tial and the ss. shares at 11s. are very
moderately assessed. They are worthy of
support, if only for comparatively high
return.
The company dates back to 1870, be-
coming a public company in 1949. In
1948 the company was one of the two
tin smelters in Australia, and the only
antimony smelter. In 1954-5 the indus-
trial diamond activities were jointly
carried on with L. M. van Moppes &
Sons Ltd of Basingstoke, England, under
the name of Commonwealth Diamond
Tools Pty Ltd, but in 1959 the 40,000
20s. shares held were sold.
Previously O. T. Lempriere obtained a
loan of £lOO,OOO for a 20 year term at
6 p.c. p.a. from the Pearl Assurance Co.
Ltd. This was in 1956-7. The follow-
ing year Alloy Metal Co. Pty Ltd of
Sydney was purchased, the finance
coming from the placement of 40,000
20s. ord shares (as they then were) at
a premium of 12s. 6d. In 1959 the shares
were split into ss. units and capital
(authorised) increased to £1,000,000.
The same year Rocklea Lead Products
Pty Ltd of Melbourne and Brisbane was
purchased for £lO,OOO cash plus 80,000
ss. ord. shares at 10s. premium.
For the year ended June 30 1962 re-
cord sales were reported. The Ballarat
Metal Pty Ltd was acquired in January
1962 but the highlight took place after
balance date by the one-for-two bonus
issue on July 19. Ordinary capital thus
rose to £583,950. This reduced the
asset revaluation reserve by £194,650 and
unappropriated profits at £69,241 do not
appear exceptional, being equal to pre-
vious div. plus 11 p.c. on the new ord.
capital.
While shareholders’ funds have steadily
increased, and working capital has grown,
net profit has been erratic, showing a
peak in 1959 and then falling away to
recover in 1961 and 1962.
It is notable that despite this profit in-
stability dividends since 1959 up to 1961
were at the rate of 14 p.c. and were well
covered, but in 1962 dropped to 12 p.c.
(of which 1 p.c. was bonus) and was
covered with less undistributed, despite a
rise of nearly £4OO in net profit. This
was on £50,000 increased capital.
The present ord. capital has again
been increased by the one-for-two bonus
and to cover the same 12 p.c. £70,074
will be required, plus £3OOO for pref.
dividend.
As the final div. for 1962 was £35,037
the company apparently paid this on the
bonus shares issued in July 1962. This is
equal to 16.3 p.c. on old capital, a
point which should be kept in mind when
assessing the prospects.
Given a year no better than last the
12 p.c. dividend should be well within
reach of the company.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY £'ooo
June 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Shareholders' funds £ 706 871 1020 1053 1243
index 100 1 23.1 144.2 1 48.5 175.5
Total investments £ 965 1052 1207 1318 1554
index 100 109.3 124.7 136.6 161.3
Working capital £ 418 519 528 556 631
index 100 124 126 132.8 150.9
Taxation £ 37 51 39 51 65
Net profit £ 64 94 66 81 85
index 100 1 46.5 1 03.6 127.8 133.9
Concealed proft on
tax £ 12
N. T. A. a ss. share 12/11 11/6 11/9 12/3 13/2
Div. rate 12 14 14 14 12
Div. amount 24 41
Pref. charge p.c. 5 5 5 5 5
Pref. amount 3 3 3 3 3
Undis. prof p.c. 67.5 53.3 25.3 37.9 31.3
Percentage prof, to:
Av. ord. capital 28.97 29.34 19.46 23.97 21.9
Shareholders' funds 10.14 11.8 7.7 9.14 7.85
Total investment 6.61 8.88 5.48 6J7 5.49
N’. T. A: 10.84 12.74 8.27 9.8 8.3
Leverage 1.42 1.3 1.26 1.32 1.31
BRADFORD COTTON MILLS
OUTLOOK NOT PROMISING
Tnabiltty to cover its dividend commit-
ments from 1962 trading results has
brought drastic reappraisal of the shares
of Bradford Cotton Mills Ltd.
The actual result of trading for the
latest year to June 30 was a profit of
£248,225 after £153,967 provision for
tax and £474,587 for depreciation. It
compared with the previous profit of
£450,505 after £354,761 tax and
£480,893 depreciation.
In 1960-61 profits were adversely affec-
ted by imports competition and generally
recessed business conditions in the sec-
ond half of the year, so that the seven-
year-old 124 p.c. dividend rate was cut
to 10 p.c. But directors explained that
no benefits were received from new pro-
jects, and the market continued optimis-
tic.
The company has always demonstra-
ted great ability to surmount the problems
which harass the tricky textile industry.
The shares have been held in high regard,
and holders were invited to subscribed a
one-for-four ss. issue at Is. 3d. premium
in 1960-61. Otherwise growth was finan-
ced from retained profits, unsecured notes
(£2.25 million) and latterly, overseas
loans (£396,977) (Interest on fixed term
loans became a burden of close to ££
million in 1961-62.)
As one of Australia's largest cotton
goods manufacturers, the company had
size necessary for large-scale economic
production, although nothing like the
proportions of British manufacturers.
The cotton spinning mills supply knit-
ters and weavers throughout Australia,
but the bulk of the output is used within
the group in the production of drills,
denims and tweeds for men’s, women’s
and children’s outerwear, canvas and
duck articles for industry and the home,
and household sheeting and pillowcases.
The plants are capable of producing
synthetic yarns.
A subsidiary, Burlington Mills (Aus-
tralia) Pty, specialises in the weaving of
synthetic yarns for men’s wear, women’s
wear, industrial fabrics, curtains, furnish-
ings, belting and webbing.
Another subsidiary makes double-knit
fabrics in wool, cotton and man-made
fibres under the Lana-knit brand.
The group's plants are situated at
Camperdown, Kotara, Rutherford and
Newtown in NSW, Abbotsford, Bendigo
and Footscray in Vic., and Toowoomba
(Qld). The latter plant makes ribbons
and labels.
In 1959-60 it was decided to pioneer
fine spinning in Australia, and a new
building was erected. Total finance in-
volved in the project, including plant, raw
materials and finished stocks, was estima-
ted at £2 million, and first production
was scheduled for late 1961. The mill is
now almost completed, and plant has
gone into production as it was installed.
As soon as overseas suppliers heard
that Bradford and others were going into
the fine cotton spinning business, they
flooded the market with fine yarns in
case duties should be imposed. This
brought about a very substantial fall in


A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members■ of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
2!)? Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O. BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
2 Denham Street. Phone: 6089.
LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Sixth Floor
56 Hunter Street, Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Telephone: BW 5721
Telegrams and Cables:
“LAGRAM,” Sydney.
PATRICK 4 COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines)
150 Queen St., Melbourne
67-5937 (7 lines)
43 Northbourne Ave.
City, Canberra, A.C.T.
4 0365-66
Flinders House, Crown St., Wollongong
B 5900
Telegrams and Cables:
“Kosdale,” Sydney, Melbourne
or Wollongong.
WANTED TO BUY
FOR CASH
Shares, listed or unlisted,
Forestry Bonds, etc.
J. W. GRANT & CO.
549 St. Kilda Road
Melbourne
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Telephones: 51-6243, 51-6245
Est. 1939
HELP
LEGACY
all the year round.
Donations: 169 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney. BM 2001.
prices. Thus Bradford may have a very
difficult time with the output from its
new project.
Though guided by the finest textile
leaders, Bradford finds the frequent Tariff
Board enquiries and changing rates of
duty thoroughly bewildering. Directors
claim it is impossible to plan intelligently
for even a few months in advance.
This sort of atmosphere is one of the
biggest deterrents to investment in the
shares of Bradford, or in fact, any other
textile company.
The chairman (Mr R. Webster)
put in a plea for official support of the
Australian textile industry in his latest
address to shareholders. Even including
the woollen and worsted industry which
is almost fully supplied locally, the Aus-
tralian textile industry supplies only 27
p.c. of our requirements. Australia im-
ports 86 p.c. of its cotton textile woven
fabrics and was the world's biggest im-
porter of cotton fabrics in 1960.
Bradford would be very satisfied with
a 5 p.c. profit on turnover, and claims
that the difference between a duty which
enables Australian industry to operate
satisfactorily and one which is just
enough to allow imported goods into
Australia has little effect on selling prices.
All in all, the immediate outlook for
shareholders is not at all promising, and
short of a brighter interim report next
March investors should not hurry into
the stock even at the present very depres-
sed level of 6s. 9d. The immediate yield
is 7.4 p.c., but this looks very vulner-
able in view of the 6.2 p.c. earning rate
on ordinary capital.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY £'ooo
June 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 6382 6476 6843 6470 6369
Less current
liabilities 3440 3639 4403 3122 3970
Working capital 2942 2837 2440 3348 2399
Investments 112 12 12 12 12
Deferred assets 525 194
Fixed assets 5986 6195 6667 7498 9279
Intangibles ■ — 40 28
Total assets 9040 9044 9119 11423 11912
Represented by:
Deferred liabilites 2548 2507 2473 3693 4411
Minority interests 28 - —•—
Preference capital 153 153 153 153 153
Ordinary capital 3379 3411 3439 4321 4321
Reserves 2932 2973 3054 3256 3027
9040 9044 9119 11423 11912
Depreciation 501 430 538 481 475
Taxation 418 329 446 355 154
Net profit 566 510 558 450 248
Net profit per ords. 557 501 549 441 239
Dividends 407 426 428 396 432
Surplus 150 75 121 45 193
Earning rate 17.1 14.7 16.1 11.1 6.2
Dividend rate 121, 12£ 12J 10 10
Dividend yield (a) 6.6 6 3 6.6 8.1 6.9
High price (b) : 10/10 9/10 10/9 12/9 10A
Low (b) 8/IJ, 8/6 8/9 8/3 5/9
(a) End of October, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year. Prices reduced to basis
of ss. units.
SORBY’S LTD
LIQUIDITY A STRONG FEATURE
Oorby’s Ltd, headquartered at New-
castle (NSW) is a company which
has withstood the credit restrictions
better than most. It originated there to
serve the building industry and the steel
and coal trades, and next extended to
Wollongong on the South Coast.
Today there are northern branches at
Hamilton, Gosford, Dubbo, Tamworth
and Casino, southern branches at Can-
berra, Wagga and Griffith, and a metro-
politan branch at Lidcombe.
Shareholders financed this expansion
throughout NSW by contributing to par
issues in 1951, 1954 and Other-
wise capital grew by issues to acquire
businesses. In March, 1961, 100,000 ss.
shares were placed with a financial in-
stitution at a premium, and three months
later a one-for-four bonus issue was
made.
The six-year-old 12} p.c. dividend was
cut back pro rata to 10 p.c., but some
increment could be expected this year.
Possession of listed securities which
cost £167,822, but are valued on the
market at £320,244, gives the company
a high degree of liquidity. Other in-
vestments appear in the books at
£48,476. On the other hand, the com-
pany has relied increasingly on loan
capital, and now has £502,989 in term
deposits and £127,250 in debenture
stock.
Directors reported some small increase
in trading in the last three months of
the year under review, which trend has
continued. F’rospects, particularly in the
building industry, are brighter than at
this time last year.
The ss. shares at 10s. 3d. to return
4.9 p.c., and with an earnings yield of
7.6 p.c. look a reasonable proposition
for a modest investment.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY £'ooo
June 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 902 1171 1487 1642 1757
Less current
liabilities 596 717 917 813 813
Working capital 306 454 570 829 944
Investments 303 284 279 206 216
Fixed assets 336 494 569 642 644
Intangibles 86
Total assets 945 1232 1504 1677 1804
Represented by:
Loan capital 122 328 428 544 630
Pref. capdal 45 40 40 40 40
Ord. capital 399 459 472 621 621
Reserves 379 405 564 472 513
945 1232 1504 1677 1804
Depreciation 8 11 12 14 15
Taxation 47 52 56 37 53
Net profit 89 98 108 92 96
Net profit
for ords 86 95 105 88 93
Dividend 49 54 59 60 62
Surplus 37 41 46 28 31
Earning rate 21.9 22.1 22.5 18.6 15.6
Dividend rate 12?. 12? 12? lO
Dividend yield (a) 6.3 4.5 4.0 5.8 4.9
High (b) 10/6 11/- 14/3 20/3 16/-
Low (b) 8/3 9/- 10/5 14/- 10/6
(a) End October, month accounts presented..
(b) Previous calendar year.


BRAMBLES INDUSTRIES LIMITED
50 MILLER STREET, NORTH SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Chairman's Address
to the
Bth Annual General Meeting
Newcastle: 29th October, 1962
Ladies and Gentlemen:
This is the first occasion that I have
had the pleasure of addressing you since
my election as Chairman of your Com-
pany.
The Directors’ Report and the Ac-
counts for the year ended 30th June,
1962, have already been forwarded to
shareholders and with your permission I
will take them as read.
This has been a difficult year for
Brambles Industries and I do not pro-
pose to recapitulate the statements and
explanations already given in the Direc-
tors’ Report and also in the interim
report dated 22nd January, 1962, which
was also distributed to shareholders.
However, to get matters into perspec-
tive, I would point out that the 20%
dividend has been maintained without
any necessity to draw on reserves—in
fact, reserves increased by over £23,000.
It is well known that the economy
of the Commonwealth was under strain
during the period with consequent hesi-
tancy and lower than normal capacity
being absorbed in a very large sector of
commerce. Your Company is a service
company to industry and any general
reduction in industrial activity naturally
results in a reduced demand for our
services. This has meant that during the
year under review, our plant, machinery
and equipment has not been used to
anywhere near its full capacity, and this
has had a more than proportionate effect
on profits. Conversely, greater utilisation
will produce an improvement in future
profits to a greater degree than the
increase in usage.
The decision to withdraw substanti-
ally out of the engineering field caused
a number of differing factors to be
reflected in the year’s result. Curtail-
ment of operators of Morison & Bearby
Pty. Limited with all the attendant costs
associated with the close down and
losses on disposal of plant and equip-
ment were fully absorbed against group
profits for the period under review.
Whilst the sale of Kelly & Lewis Pty.
Limited and other engineering subsidi-
aries were negotiated on favourable
terms, the year did not benefit from any
trading profits which would have other-
wise arisen from these activities as in
past years.
The funds released from the sale and
disposal of those engineering subsidiar-
ies have been used to a large extent to
modernise and replace various items of
plant, machinery and equipment in other
divisions of the group, so that it is all
now in first-class order and ready to
serve industry even better in the future.
However, as you can appreciate from
my remarks on utilisation, these funds
have not been income-producing for the
major part of the 1961-62 year.
To offset the effect of this reduced
activity and the non-recurring costs as-
sociated with the close down of engin-
eering operations, it was possible" to
apply losses for tax purposes, which
had accumulated in the engineering
division over a lengthy period, in reduc°
tion of the group’s tax liability for this
year.
Full benefits are still to be obtained
from the acquisition for cash of the
Sydney-based Bradshaw interests in the
rock excavating and de-watering field,
and the two Adelaide crane hiring busi-
nesses of L. D. Nicholls Limited and
Heavy Duty Cranes Limited, which re-
spectively only came into the Brambles
Group in the second half of 1961-62
and after the close of the financial year.
Under discussion at the present time are
a number of proposals for expansion by
way of either amalgamation or merger
which could result in further funds be-
ing more profitably employed during
the current year.
Your Company is in a strong finan-
cial position with the shareholders and
convertible noteholders having a 72i%
equity in the total assets of the group.
Trade debts (after deducting the appro-
priate provision for doubtful debts) were
sufficient alone to cover all current
liabilities falling due prior to 30th
June, 1963.
Nevertheless, it is important that the
assets should be restored to full-earning
capacity and the first three months of
this financial year have been very en-
couraging. There is evidence now of
increasing activity in the economy with
a noticeable improvement in the em-
ployment situation and fairly general
increases in the production of a wide
range of items.
Your Board looks to the future with
confidence and has no hesitation in
stating, as has been stated in the Direc-
tors’ Report, that if the present trend of
improvement continues the 20% dividend
rate can be maintained on the ordinary
capital even when increased by the con-
version of the unsecured notes in Janu-
ary, 1963.
I would like to conclude by express-
ing the Directors’ appreciation of the
loyalty of the staff and the efforts which
they have made during a difficult year.
I now formally move the adoption of
the Directors’ Report and Accounts for
the year ended 30th June, 1962.
R. A. DICKSON,
Chairman.


THE BULLETIN ADVISORY
SERVICE
From a large number of readers' letters seeking "The
Bulletin's" advice on investment matters, these have been selected
for publication. The balance have been answered personally.
As this month’s investor for a small
investment club made up of fellow
employees, several shares come to my
mind. Which of Ralph Symonds, R. W.
Miller, Su pert ex or BHP won't d suit our
hook? — DM. (Port Kembla).
In the last couple of years those invest-
ment clubs which stuck to the leaders
and the solid stocks have had the least
worries.
In our view newcomers to the invest-
ment world should proceed with caution.
BHP therefore appears, particularly at
present historically low prices, to be far
and away your best bet, even if it is
necessary to accumulate two months
dues. It may even be wise to buy an
odd lot of 50 right away, to ensure the
price doesn't run out of your reach.
R. W. Miller may be a very sound
purchase at today’s level, but it is not
likely to rise much above that for the
time being. The club could have an op-
portunity to buy these cheaper or at
least at the same price some time hence.
Supertax could be attractive as a re-
covery prospect. The market is taking a
gloomy view in keeping the ss. shares
down to 3s. lOd. while they are still
on the dividend list. They have been up
to ss. 9d. in 1962 and ss. lid. in the
1961 calendar year. But directors have
not yet given any inkling of better
prospects. The company definitely does
not appeal for long-term investment,
which we consider should be the aim of
a club.
Ralph Symonds ss. shares have slipped
from 14s 6d. opening price in January
to ss. lOd. This slump prompted three
preference shareholders to propose that
the 6 p.c. preference shares be substituted
by 6 p.c. preference shares participating
to 8 p.c. Rather illogically the ordinary
shares crept back to about 6s. 9d. The
last statement from the company was of
lower sales and profits for the last
December half-year. The results for
J 961-62 are usually presented in Novem-
ber,- and judging by market sentiment
only, they will not be very good. Without
more factual information, a purchase
would be foolish.
★ ★ ★
Some time back I bought shares in
Minerva Centre Ltd at 23/- each. Since
then the last sale has been at 16/-. Could
you let me know what type of business
the company deals in and the chances of
Minerva Centre paying dividends again?
—LOB. (Sydney).
Minerva Centres obtains all its income
from two subsidiaries, the Tivoli group
and the Pott's Point Development. Des-
pite a good profit history to 1959, results
for the past two years have not been as
good, although there was a recovery in
1961.
The market at 16s. obviously does not
expect an early return to the dividend
list, and unless there is a marked impro-
vement in 1961-62 this appears doubtful.
The 1960-61 result was equal to only
5.7 p.c. on capital. However the shares
appear a good holding at the price as a
takeover prospect for each 20s. shares
is backed by nearly 50s. of tangible
assets. The basic wealth of Minerva is
in property ownership, trading being
confined to theatre ownership.
* ★ ★
Would you please give me your opi-
nion on the security of investment in
Retailers Discount? I hold 1500 shares
and am somewhat concerned at the fall
in H. P. market. As a small investor
would you recommend selling these
shares. W. J. IS. (Warren NSW).
Retailers Discount incurred a loss for
1961-62 due to the writing off of an
additional £55,000 in bad debts. Despite
this the company has paid a dividend of
8 p.c. for the year an interim 5 p.c.
and a final 3 p.c. The company is well
run and has a good profit history except
for the slip last year. The current year
should see a recovery.
As a small investor you appear to
have too large a holding in one com-
pany and we recommend you to sell at
least half of your holding. As the price
is currently depressed you could wait for
some price improvement. Proceeds of
your sale could be invested in 200 David
Jones, 300 Woolworths, or 400 Huttons.
Feifter
“HOW TO WIM ARGUMENT"
OM MOUR SUMMER
TOUR. OF EUROPE"
OR
" A 6UHT TO COM\/£R-
satiomai cc.vreßßyp.a
]SN3LANO: u’HEM THEM PRIWO
OP.'HfeMAO KAHM, EPWARD
TELLER AMP MUCifAR
PE'EEREMCE .'65 POIK'S',
COM TER WITH ROM WEUEWSKM,
SOUTHERN) PHOPEEIA .UP
THE OOVTiUitP GATE OF ARMS
TO ■SOUTH AFRICA./TO EOIRTg)
FRANCE: WHEW THEM HRWO OP
The 0-iA-, civic rights amp
the rapical nmrCßo ports’),
COiVTtP WITH THE O.A-S-,
SUPPRESSION OF THE PRESS
amp Elastic pohbs.Cb? points}
RUSSIA :WHEM THEM
BRIMS UP THE STOCK"
L MARKET, THE EE/tIME
OF CAPITALISM Adt?
The 006 AM FIASCO
(7% poiwyoume.
WITH HUM6ARM,
FAILIMS CROPS AMP
MAO T6E-TOW6.
Cer POINTS')
6ERMANV: WHEM THEM BOMS
UP AUIEP IMPECISIOM OM WEST
SERUM {'3s" POIUTS/,MPU MAM
COUMTER WITH lATEMT WAZISM
AMP THE FEAR OF A MEIM
HITEER-BUT IT idILL SCORE MOU
MO PCIVTS - THW HAVEME'/ER
i HEARP OF EITHER.
A FffJAE WORE OF
API/ICE : THE BEST
IMAM TO ESCAPE
trouble OM HOUR.
TOUR OF EUROPE
IS TO MOW
SF’EAK/MS TO
ammome who
UMPEROTAMDS
EM6KSH.
fIWHA/


VIEW AND STAR LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
Final Dividend No. 95
NOTICE IS HEREBY given that the
Directors have decided to recommend at
the Annual General Meeting of the
Company to be held on December 6 1962,
payment of a PINAL DIVIDEND of ONE
SHILLING AND SIXPENCE per share
Sterling in respect of the year ended
June 30, 1962, less United Kingdom
Income Tax at SEVEN SHILLINGS AND
NINEPENCE in the £ (SIX DECIMAL
POINT NINE SEVEN FIVE PENCE per
share), the net amount of Dividend being
ELEVEN DECIMAL POINT NOUGHT
TWO FIVE PENCE per share sterling.
Subject to confirmation at the Annual
General Meeting the Dividend will be
paid on December 13, 1962, to all Share-
holders registered on the books of the
Company at the close of business on
November 15, 1962.
The transfer books will be closed from
November 16 to 19, 1962 both days
inclusive.
The Australian equivalent of Dividend
will be calculated at the rate of Exchange
ruling on November 15, 1962.
Net Dividend payable to non-resident
Shareholders entitled to United Kingdom
Tax exemption is ONE SHILLING AND
FIVE DECIMAL POINT FIVE FOUR
EIGHT NOUGHT TWO PENCE sterling
per share, and this rate of Dividend will
apply to all exemption authorities received
by November 15.
For LAKE VIEW AND STAR LIMITED
R. C. BUCKETT,
Attorney.
Spring U ke/u. and \ntaA
td a ioC eflodek than goto think
SPRING IS HERE AND XMAS IS A LOT CLOSER
THAN YOU THINK. SOON YOU'LL HAVE TO THINK
ABOUT PRESENTS FOR THE FAMILY, FOR
RELATIVES, FOR FRIENDS BOTH HERE AND
MAYBE, OVERSEAS. WHY NOT A
subscription to "The Bulletin”
AUSTRALIA'S OLDEST (ESTABLISHED 1880)
AND BIGGEST MAGAZINE OF NEWS AND
COMMENT? YOU CAN ORDER IT FROM YOUR
NEWSAGENT OR BY FILLING IN
THE FORM AT RIGHT
a
i
/Z
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
name
address
Please arrange for my BULLETIN to
be delivered to me each week by
MY NEWSAGENT
by direct SUBSCRIPTION
Please tick (v/) whichever method of
delivery you prefer.
For those desiring direct s
enclosed my cheque /money
order for months subscr.pt.on to
THE BULLETIN.
RATES (Australia and N e w Gmnea) ritish
£2 125.: Va year -£t countries -
Dominions -£3 6' uluu
N. 1.1. 1 SUBSCRIPTIONS Remit to Box N 9 §?
Wellington. N.Z. 1 r ear (N z curr ency).
currency Va year—£l 6s
Please add exchange to cnequ
PeoftA a/a talUng mote and mo*u> admd: tfa BuMetin.
/ am curious about the ss. shares of
Palgrave Corporation currently being
traded at almost half par and would be
pleased if you could give me a brief
outline of the company’s activities and
past record. 1 am inclined to buy these
shares and would welcome your advice?
• — FGB. (Hurstville).
Palgrave has had a very chequered
career since formation in 1947. It has
held share investments in a number of
solid manufacturing companies, but
some of its more recent activities have
not been so successful.
In particular an investment in Time
Savings Clocks, a form of insurance
saving, resulted in a loss written off in
1961-62 of £131,000. It also went into
the real estate and resort development,
just before the boom burst. As a result
total losses for the latest year reached
£163,000.
Since June 30 the board has been al-
most entirely changed. A new addition
includes Mr W. S. Lamerton who has
done so much to make Australian Factors
Ltd such a success.
The shares at 2/6 offer speculative
prospects although dividend payments
may be delayed for a while.
★ ★ ★
What is your opinion of the follow-
ing shares (purchased over the last two
to four years) for growth and long-term
investment? 300 Woolworths costing 16s;
200 Harco Steel 65.; 200 Fire Fighting
lls.; W. Ramsay 125.; 1000 Fixed Trusts
55.; 200 Westralian Oil Is. 10 d.
I have been considering selling the
Fixed Trusts and putting the money into
fixed securities such as Cambridge Credit
or Custom Credit. Do you think this
would be much better?
Westralian is, of course, purely specu-
lative. A. C. ( Penang, Malaya).
Your first four companies appear good
for growth, especially over a long term,
for the fantastic growth of recent years
is now gone. If there is a weakness it
could be Harco Steel which passed its
interim dividend this year, and is quoted
at 3s. lid. sales, which is a long way be-
low what you paid for them. You should
hold for a recovery. Fire Fighting divid-
end was only 50 p.c. covered by current
profits, but there should be a recovery
here. At 11s., your purchase price,
they yield 4.5 p.c.
Regarding the Fixed Trusts, you don’t
state what Trust and whether they are
Fixed Trust or Flexible Trust. Some of
the Flexible Trusts (commonly but in-
correctly called Fixed Trusts) show con-
siderable capital gain.
Oil shares could be worth a lot of
money or worth nothing. They all de-
pend on the word IF. If oil is found they
would rocket up. As you have less than
£lO at stake, take a chance and hold
them.


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
AUSTRALIAN WOOLGROWERS MUST
RAISE PROMOTION LEVY
llTlthin the next six months Australia's
woolgrowers can expect another
urgent request for an increase in their
10s. a bale voluntary levy for w'ool pro-
motion.
This is likely to be one of the results
of the recent annual board meeting of
the three-nation International Wool
Secretariat in Melbourne.
The IWS board, comprising 13 top
wool men from Australia, New Zealand
and South Africa, had before it a pro-
posed five-year plan for international
wool promotion and research.
Drawn up by the IWS managing direc-
tor, Australian-born Mr Bill Vines, the
plan is believed to aim at more than
doubling present world-wide wool pro-
motion and research.
As the IWS’s present annual budget
is in the vicinity of £5 million of
which about £3i million comes from
the 180,000 woolgrowers of the three
member countiies the plan may take
more than a little “selling” to wool-
growers.
But Mr Vines, one of the world's top
salesmen, is known to have concluded
on his first round-the-world inspection of
IWS work, that the Secretariat was under-
spending.
He has said frankly on his present
visit to Australia that the big intern-
ational firms which are wool's chief rivals
in the fibre field are STILL outspending
wool by five to ten times on promotion,
product development and research.
He has declined to name the sum he
believes would be adequate for wool's
promotion budget, but he admits he has
a figure in mind. He has spent his first
year as managing director building up
an organisation capable of spending the
IWS budget wisely and effectively.
Still under way are surveys of existing
and potential markets . . . the surveys
which will decide, in the long-term,
where and how the money is spent.
Mr Vines said at a Press conference
in Sydney that he sensed a swing back
to wool in consumer preference around
the world. He instanced as a concrete
example the United States market, where
wool had been losing ground steadily for
some years. But this year wool had
turned the corner, and there had been a
definite upswing.
In sweaters, wool use had jumped 32
p.c. and in separate slacks 21 p.c.
both fields in which wool had been taking
a beating.
In men's suits, wool use had risen 13
p.c. and in the first eight months of the
present year American mill consumption
of wool had risen 15 p.c. on the com-
parable period of 1961.
"Our pressure is being felt by our
competitors, but w'e cannot afford to be
complacent ... we have a long way
to go yet,” he said. “W'e must remember
we are up against companies w'ith vast
resources of manpower and money for
promotion and research.”
Sir William Gunn, cagey chairman
of the Australian Wool Bureau (and the
board of the IWS), has also dropped
numerous hints that Australia’s wool-
growers can expect to have to pay
more for promotion soon.
In his opening address to the ISW
annual meeting he said: “I believe that
now 1 , for the first time, we have in the
IWS an organisation capable of doing
battle with our competitors W'hoever and
wherever they might be, on reasonably
equal terms PROVIDED WE GIVE
THE MANAGEMENT SUFFICIENT
AMMUNITION TO DO BATTLE
WITH.”
Sir William made it plain that by
“ammunition” he meant money. Some
of his speech was plainly aimed at Aus-
tralia's woolgrowers.
“It is probably unfortunate for the
I\VS that woolgrowers will be inclined to
pass judgment on the efficiency of the
IWS in terms of the price of W’ool,” he
said. “This kind of judgment will be
justified only when w'oolgrowers are
prepared to give the IWS all the funds
necessary to do an adequate job. Until
they do so THEY must take full res-
ponsibility for the price of wool, and
not the IWS.'’
For “woolgrowers” in these quotations
you can read “Australian woolgrowers,”
because New' Zealand and South Africa
have both greatly increased their pro-
motion levies in the last six months. Aus-
tralian growers now contribute 10s. a
bale, New Zealand 19s. 6d. and South
African 225. 6d.
In New Zealand half the levy is con-
tributed direct by growers and the other
half through the New Zealand Wool
Commission the body operating New
Zealand's reserve price wool marketing
scheme.
The New Zealand levy was lifted from
12s. 6d. to 19s. 6d. in April.
South African growers actually pay a
levy of 375. 6d. a bale from July, 60 p.c.
of this being set aside lor promotion.
The 15s. a bale balance of the South
African levy is used to finance the
activities of the South African Wool
Commission. (Australian growers pay
a full levy of 12s. a bale 2s. going
to research and 10s. to promotion.)
New Zealand and South Africa have
no difficulty raising their levies. Aus-
tralia, on the other hand, w'ith two major
and opposing woolgrower organisations,
makes it a long, painful business.
Sir William Gunn drove himself and
his aides into the ground in a week-long
nation-wide campaign before he narrowly
w'on the ss. a bale increase in the
Australian levy early last year. Last
March woolgrowers agreed to leave the
levy at 10s. a bale for another 12 months.
Australia contributes 64 p.c. of the
IWS budget, New Zealand 23.7 p.c. and
South Africa 12.3 p.c. By raising their
levies, New Zealand and South Africa
have presumably indicated their willing-
ness to agree to the expanded promotion
and research programme Mr Vines seeks.
Whether Australia is able to meet her
64 p.c. share of the cost will probably
depend on the proposed supreme autho-
rity for the wool industry expected to be
set up under Federal Government legis-
lation before the end of the year.
One of the first tasks of this organis-
ation will be to decide on the size of the
levy for 1963-64.
Until the composition of the new
authority is known and the extent of its
powers, it is anybody's guess as to the
likely size of the levy.
WOODCHOPPING POLICE AT
EASTER SHOW
A relay woodchopping contest for
members of the Australasian police
forces will be held for the first time at
the 1963 Royal Easter Show. The
event will be an under-hand and stand-
ing cut contest with timber of 12-inch
diameter.
Director Parry-Okeden says that the
value of prize money and trophies for
the woodchopping section will be more
than £4.600, a record.


IN THE SUPREME COURT
OP NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO; ELSIE MAUD JOHNSON, c/- T. B. Arm-
strongs Farm, Coopershot, via Bangalow, NEW
SOUTH WALES- TAKE NOTICE that m-
RICK CECIL JOHNSON of 84 Miller Street,
North Sydney has commenced a suit. No. 2673
of 1962 against you in this Court and is apply-
ing for a dissolution of marriage on the ground
of desertion. AND TAKE NOTICE thru, ,vou
are required to enter an answer to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the 21st day of December 1962 and in
the event of your not doing so wi bit th-
time limited or obtain further time the Peti-
tioner will proceed and the suit be heard and
determined your absertce notwithstanding.
A copy of the Petition filed herein may be had
by application to W. H. LUCHETTI, Solicitor,
137 Pacific Highway, North Sydney free of
charge. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO; KEITH JOHN RYAN late of 133 Burns
Road. St. John’s Parle. TAKE NOTICE that
THELMA LORNA RYAN has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 958 of 1962 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards. If you wish to defend
you may enter an Appearance in tire Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, King Street. Sydney
by the 14th day of December, 1962 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge from
Ait,ken & Pluck, Solicitors, of 234-242 George
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT, 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: IRENE MARGARET SHEARGOLD late of
Wodonga in the State of Victoria. TAKE
NOTICE that WARREN ALFRED SHEARGOLD
has filed a Petition No. 1665 of 1962 for divorce
on the grounds of desertion and separation.
If you wish to defend you may file an answer
in the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney by the 21st December
1962 and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from J. C. Paynter, Solicitor, of
107 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: ALBERT JOHN LYNCH late of Turra-
murra in tLe State of New South . Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that Irene Emily Dorothy
Lynch has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2931
of 1960 on the ground of desertion during a
period of three years and upwards and is
asking for the exercise of the Court’s discre-
tion under section 19(2) (a) of the Matrimonial
Causes Act 1899. If you wish to defend this
Petition you may enter an answer in the
divorce Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney by the 3rd day of January
1963 and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from J. B. Moffatt & Son, 139 King
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: JOHN DOUGLAS BEDFORD of Taree.
TAKE NOTICE that Lilian May Bedford has
filed a Petition for divorce No. 2202 of 1957
on the grounds of adultery and separation.
If you wish to defend this petition you must
file an answer in the Divorce Registry. Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney on or
before Ist January, 1963 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from H. V. Harris,
Wheeler & Williams of 43 Bolton Street, New-
castle or T. G. D. Marshall, Landers & Co.,
Solicitors, of 251-253 George Street, Sydney.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: WILLIAM HENRY SMITH of Mildura.
TAKE NOTICE that Mary Josephine Smith of
Main Road, Lochinvar has filed a petition for
divorce No. 1050 of 1962 on the ground of
desertion. If you wish to defend this petition
rou must file an answer in the Divorce
Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney on or before 22nd December, 1962 and
obtain a copy of the petition and notice of
Wheeler & Williams, Solicitors, of 43 Bolton
petition without charge from H. V. Harris,
Street, Newcastle or T. G. D. Marshall, Landers
& Co., Solicitors, of 251-253 George Street,
Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Positions Vacant
HEADMASTERSHIIP
OF
BARKER COLLEGE, HORNSBY
N.S.W. AUSTRALIA
A leading Secondary School for Boarders
and Day Boys.
Enrolment —223 Boarders, 422 Day Boys.
A capable and experienced person as Head-
master is required for the abovementioned School.
Duties to commence as soon as possible after
16th May, 1963. Applicants should be communi-
cant members of the Church of England, either
clergymen or laymen. Salary is at rate of. £3,500
per annum with allowance for expenses, super-
annuation. free residence, electricity, telephone,
gas, etc. Car provided.
For particulars and conditions apply to—
The Hon. Secretary,
The Council of Barker College,
9-13 Bligh Street, SYDNEY.
Applications close 31st January, 1963.
ALL SOULS' SCHOOL
CHARTERS TOWERS
Wanted Master to teach Physics and Mathe-
matics to Senior standard, commencing January,
1963, resident or non-resident, award salary.
For particulars apply Headmaster
MISSING PERSON
WRIGHT, Lorna Joan, formerly of
“Carina” MILMAN, via Rockhampton.
Please communicate with Kenneth Bar-
ton Wright: 11 Malabar Road, South
Coogee, N.S.W.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 719
ACROSS
I—“ Paradoxical” creatures evade financial commit-
ments. (9)
6—Picture puzzle about transport. (5)
8— Alaskan peak horses don’t belong to Lamb. (5,
5,5)
9 Take offscourings as the heart of a native of the
area near 8-across. (6)
10—Orange vice Alan corrected. (8)
14— Extremely tight average. (4)
15— Novel directions. (3)
16 —Express practise. (5)
18 — The first letter for the Hebrew
brew push dispensing with us.
(5)
19 — Leave none but an infantile
remark. (3)
20— Mashed peas in part of the
church. (4)
22 Did appear to be missing a
little grebe. (8)
23 The dead seaborne squabble.
(6)
25—Source letters could so be part
of Conservatorium activity.
(9,6)
28—Not close, some tatter misses
theatregoing accessories. (5-7)
DOWN
1— This makes the soft pedal loaf
in the bush. (6)
2 King of Mirth is a fool. (11)
3 O'Neill exhibits this and flit-
termice make up a vessel's
crew. (11)
4 Thin list. (4)
5 Raw material for very light
sabots? (10)
6 Way to be sorry. (3)
7 Upholds us wrongly with dis-
colorations. (8)
11— Toxin traces might cause
dentists to perform these and
so correct them. (11)
12— Items in the wardrobe of the
well-dressed octopus. (5, 2,
4)
13— Sing about black mirth. (10)
17—A treatise covering the whole
of a subject and end pact
arrangements. (7)
21 —Torchbearer’s pronouns. (6)
24—A lot of Indians opening in
“A” Grade. (4)
26 Cleaner Englishman is upset.
(3)
27 Chaldean capital apostro-
phised a pronoun. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 718


m
■
,
■
m
\
«**
Xmsm
&M
; -
: ■
I
•. V
Cool new idea:
BRANDY FRESHERS
with the golden taste of sunshine
A job well done deserves a Brandy Fresher, a bright
crisp-tasting drink with the sunshine Brandy base.
Australian Brandy is the joyous golden-hearted spirit
from sun-blessed grapes, winner of many overseas
awards, least expensive base of all for countless summer
cool-offs, short or long. Moderate people who like to
live the good life enjoy Brandy often. You, too?
TRY BRANDY SMASH: Crush 4 mini leaves and I teaspoon castor
sugar in tumbler Add soda water, cracked ice, then pour over 1 oz. (about
2 tablespoons) Brandy. Garnish with mint sprig, serve with swizzle stick.
SEND NOW FOR FREE LEAFLET of recipes lor exciting long and
short Freshers and punches with Brandy. Just write to the Wine
Inlormation Centre in your State.
Box 3634. G.P.0.. Sydney
Box 4057. G.P.0.. Melbourne
Box 155 C. G.P.0.. Brisbane
Box 260 D G.P.0., Adelaide
Box 1)650. G.P.O . Perth
Box BO9H, G.P.0., Hobart
AUTHORISED BV THE AUSTRALIAN WINE BOARD


M
-
■
Wmm m I
A %
%
m
s-i V'
<*z
The world’s finest tobacco
is at your fingertips
THE ONLY
VIRGINIA
KING SIZE
PLAIN
