

The Bulletin
Registered in Australia for trans-
mission by post as a newspaper.
February 17, 1962
V
The Radio
ft
Revolution


/
EXTRAS
The American blend cigarette now made
in Australia... so much fresher
mim
Wmm
m
m
i
■ :
EXTRAS
' • *
■
20
m
: :
L&r
:.r
b y **
.
.
.
Ozz/y Carlyle could. . .
taste so good
it’s blended
measure your cigarette here
AT
with just
a touch,
of Turkish
World Copyright
MANUFACTURED FOR THE AMERICAN CIGARETTE COMPANY (OVERSEAS) PTY. LTD.
CE5061.2.6Z


Tanner
Menzies’ policy
is appeasement!
We must not surrender
to threats
of possible
, . . peaceful solution!


This Australia
UNIONS
ANOTHER
FITZGIBBON CASE?
By MUGGA
COLIN SHEARER
Waiting for McDowell
Although there will be three State
elections soon, one trade union ballot
now being conducted is almost as import-
ant as any of these. This is the Amal-
gamated Engineering Union election for
Commonwealth Councillor of division
No. 3. With 80,000-odd members, the
Amalgamated Engineering Union is the
biggest union affiliated to the Australian
Council of Trade Unions, and is second
only in size to the non-affiliate, the
Australian Workers' Union. At the
moment it is controlled by the Com-
munist party which has tw'o of its repre-
sentatives on the three-man controlling
Commonwealth Council.
At the present time the Commonwealth
Council is made up of Mr C. “Cup”
Southwell of No. 1 division, Mr Colin
Shearer of No. 2 division and Mr C. G.
Hennessy of No. 3 division. Messrs
Southwell and Hennessy are members of
the Communist party and Shearer,
although a member of no political party,
could be described as a middle-of-the-
road Labor man. An incident at last
year’s ACTU congress indicates the way
in which the control of the union by
Southwell and Hennessy now operates.
The chairman of the union, Mr Arthur
Horsburgh (a member of the ALP), had
indicated to the three councillors his
intention of standing for the key position
of the metal trades group representative
on the ACTU interstate executive. The
Communist party had already lined up
the position for Mr Tom Wright, the
secretary of the Sheetmetal Workers’
Union and a member of the central
committee of the Communist party.
Southwell and Hennessy opposed their
own union member’s nomination and
only Shearer supported Horsburgh in a
vote among the three councillors. Only
the politically naive would not take this
as indicative of Communist party inter-
ftrence inside the union. Wright, of
course, was elected; but there is no doubt
that had ALP man Horsburgh been
allowed to nominate by his fellow
unionists, Southwell and Hennessy, he
would now be sitting on the ACTU
executive, representing the AEU.
If Hennessy is defeated in this ballot,
this would mean that the Communist
party no longer controls any large union
in the metal trades. The Ironworkers, the.
Society of Engineers and the Amalga-
mated Engineering Union represent be-
tween them about 180,000 of about
230,000 members in the metal trades
unions.
The ACTU incident, and incidents like
these, will probably come to an end in
the union on February 23 when the
results of the election for councillor of
No. 3 division will be known. Strangely
enough, division No. 3 covers the extra-
ordinary area of Western Australia,
Darwin, Queensland and all of NSW
except Sydney, Newcastle and Broken
Hill. As already indicated, this vote
by the 22,000 members in the division is
not only for councillor but in fact for
the control of the union.
There are three candidates standing—-
Councillor Hennessy, Mr J. McDowell
and Mr T. I. Elsey. Although the ballot
opened on the 2nd of this month, the
campaign to unseat communist Hennessy
began round about August-September
last year when a petition was taken
around the union’s members petitioning
for a ballot conducted under the Arbi-
tration Act. Opposition to union ballots
conducted by the Industrial Registrar is
still part of Labor mythology (although
in fact a Left-winger like Mr Clyde
Cameron, MP for Hindmarsh, is in favor
of them), but the only “disadvantage” to
rank-and-file unionists is the guarantee
that the ballot is “clean.”
With the unusual personal slogan of “a
sound mind in a sound body,” 55-year-
old sports instructor of the Bundaberg
Amateur Wrestling Club, Bundaberg’s
battling blacksmith McDowell is favored
to win. In Australia's extraordinary
trade union climate he has the necessary
political qualifications to gain his mem-
bers’ votes: he is a member of the Austra-
lian Labor Party (for 25 years),
a Protestant, an anti-communist and, of
course, is not a member of Mr Santa-
maria's National Civic Council. In fact,
his qualifications closely parallel Mr Tom
Fitzgibbon's, who was elected last year
as secretary of the Waterside Workers'
Federation. Like Fitzgibbon. McDowell
is being supported by, the same groups:
some militant ALP branch men are work-
ing for him, as also are members of the
National Civic Council. Again, as in
the Waterside Workers’ election, the
ALP is not officially supporting him but
has given him its unofficial blessing,
hoping no doubt to put up some propa-
ganda if he is successful. McDowell is
not as fortunae as Fitzgibbon, because
this time Labor party officials have not
provided any finance for his campaign.
Tn the Engineering Union the only
propaganda allow-ed by the rules in
support of any candidates must be hand-
written —this is with the exception of a
750-word printed address written by each
candidate and sent out by the electoral
officer w'ith the ballot papers. For
McDowell’s committee this meant that
his supporters and they had to write by
hand 22,000 how-to-vote cards, raise £5OO
for postage and supply the necessary
addressed envelopes for despatch to mem-
bers. The Communist party's candidate,
Hennessy, has had no difficulty in finding
this manpower, money and organisation
because it has been found for him by his
fellow party-members throughout Aus-
tralia. However, McDowell's engineers’
rank-and-file defence committee is finding
the going much harder. Mr Elsey, the
third candidate, is a non-communist and
the only effect his standing will have on
the election is in exchanging preferences
w-ith McDowell.
Indicative of their fear of losing the
control of the union is the Communist
party's attempt to have McDowell dis-
qualified from office on “legal” grounds.
The Brisbane North branch of the
union is claiming that a statement
which appeared in the Maryborough
“Chronicle” in November, ascribed to
McDowell, constitutes “printed propa-
ganda.” Apart from the fact that the rule
concerned prohibits only printed propa-
ganda being “sent to branches or mem-
bers,” and that it has no evidence to
substantiate its claim that McDow'ell
made the statement concerned, rank-and-
file members of the AEU in Maryborough
point out that the original statement in
the “Chronicle” distorted the facts in
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPERCO. PTY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; Phone: 27 5971.
Vol. 83
No. 4279


regard to the election, was probably a
“plant” sought to injure McDowell’s
chances in the election, and was designed
specifically to get him to comment on it.
The charge itself seems too slim to have
any chance of success.
In Maryborough itself, a group of
AEU members, some of them well-known
ALP supporters, have banded themselves
together “secretly” and formed the
“Maryborough and District Rank-and-
file Control Committee” and are sending
out hand-written propaganda in support
of the communist Hennessy. Obviously
their first preferences are going to Hen-
nessy and their second to Elsey, placing
McDowell last. One member of the
“secret” committee said that McDowell
was a candidate sponsored by “Santa-
maria's National Civic Council” and that
the committee was formed to counter
“outside influence in union affairs.”
Asked why his committee had recom-
mended that the last preference should
go to McDowell, a Protestant, an ALP
man, and not a member of the NCC, if
it was fighting “outside interference in
union affairs,” the committee man said
that politics should not be considered in
union elections.
Even if, as expected, McDowell suc-
ceeds in beating Hennessy, and the Com-
munist party thereby loses control of the
union, problems will only then start for
McDowell and Shearer. It is not widely
known that within the ranks of the AELJ
there are over 500 members of the Com-
munist party, who certainly won't take
losing control of the union lightly. Again,
the similarity with Fitzgibbon and the
Waterside Workers’ Federation is strik-
ing. Although Fitzgibbon is secretary, it
is certainly not the case that that union
is in non-communist hands. In both
these unions, wild-cat strikes, general
disorder and disrupting tactics seem to
be in store for members of both unions
during this year.
ENTERTAINMENT
COMMISSIONER FOR MORALS
FROM JOHN HIGGINS IN BRISBANE
T atest quasi-judicial appointment in
Queensland is that of a Commis-
sioner for Morals —or, perhaps more
correctly, an Officer Who Decides What
Jokes Shall Be Told in Public Places. The
gentleman concerned is pint-sized barris-
ter John Kelly, chairman of the State
Licensing Commission, now up to his
neck in the morass caused by the latest
amendements to the State’s Liquor Acts.
One of the top brass in the infantry
militia at the end of World War 11, he is
at the moment locked in combat with
nationally known comedian Stan Bourne
of the Surfers’ Paradise (Chevron-owned)
Hotel.
Under the State's amended liquor laws,
beer gardens have to be declared as such.
Once this is done, no one under the age of
21 is allowed to enter the area involved.
In the lounge section of an hotel,
of course, anyone can be entertained,
with the proviso that people under the
age of 21 cannot be served inioxicating
liquor. On the Gold Coast, particularly,
the danger of being “declared” a beer
garden is obvious, as it would completely
bar from the area the reasonably high-
spending 18-21 year-old age group, and
also parents with young children who
normally run around sipping soft drinks
and eating hot-dogs while Mum and Dad
relax over a jug of beer.
Beer gardens have become fairly popu-
lar in Queensland in recent years as
hotels strove to combat television ; and
entertainment (sometimes free and some-
times involving a cover charge) has
become an accepted nightly feature. It is
on the standard of entertainment that the
Licensing Commission appears to be
basing its “declarations”. If the humor
is considered too vulgar—the place
becomes a beer garden instead of a
lounge.
In the particular case of the Surfers’
Paradise, a synonym for the Gold Coast,
resident comedian-musician Stan Bourne
is as much a part of the place as its
breakers and dumpers. By vaudeville
standards he is quite good, but much of
his humor, like most stage humor, is
“broad”. Chairman Kelly personally
listened in to a show and found that 90
per cent, of it was quite fit for adults but
that the balance was “lewd”.
It is no joke as far as Mr Bourne
and the Surfers’ Paradise are concerned.
If they get in Mr Kelly’s hair to any
really irritating extent, he can amend
the hotel s liquor licence by a curt
order to a magistrate refusing them any
kind of entertainment... and that will
be that!
At the moment the situation is that an
area measuring approximately 194 ft x
52ft in front of Mr Bourne's dias has
been declared a beer garden, and a wall
is being erected to shield other guests
from his humor. On top of that, Mr
Kelly is keeping a close eye on Mr
Bourne ... and if Mr Bourne isn’t care-
ful the existing declared area may be
considerably abbreviated, or, alter-
natively, entertainment may be halted.
PRESS
"TRUTH"
PULLS THROUGH
FROM BOB BOTTOM IN BROKEN HILL
■Droken Hill’s controversial trade-
union daily, “Barrier Daily Truth,”
has survived its latest crisis. The Barrier
Industrial Council, the controlling body
of the Broken Hill unions, has bought
the paper from the Workers’ Industrial
Union of Australia for £60,000. This
squashes the £25,000 closure offer made
by Mr Rupert Murdoch, the owner of
Broken Hill's other newspaper, the
“Barrier Miner.”
The BIC has agreed to pay the WIU
£20,000 of the £60,000 almost immedi-
ately and £lO,OOO every subsequent year.
By the time the WIU pays off the
crippling debts incurred by the paper, it
will have made only a few thousand
pounds on the deal.
A mass meeting of the BIC recently
decided that 6000 affiliated unionists pay
2s. 6d. a week towards the running of the
paper. For that they will get a paper
delivered to their homes. And the total
revenue from that source each year would
be about £40,000, BIC officials estimate.
With increased advertising following the
increase in circulation, the paper should
be able to pay its way, they say. They
intend setting up a board of management
to supervise the running of the paper.
And the BIC has also promised that it
will not levy its affiliated unionists, which
the WIU had to do several times.
The BIC takeover, as unexpected as
it was, has brought two contrasting
reactions in the Hill —a ray of confidence
from the workers and an air of gloom
from the so-called “capitalists.” For the
BIC, which already virtually controls
Broken Hill, will now be more powerful
than ever. Even without the full use of
“Barrier Truth” it had been able to
dictate what goes in the city.
When “Barrier Daily Truth” looked
like closing, the BIC was in danger of
losing the medium for its main fighting
weapon ; as, when an employer fails to
fall in line with BIC rules, the BIC
promptly declares his business out of
bounds to all affiliated unionists through
the paper. If “Barrier Daily Truth” had
closed, the BIC would have had quite a
job getting the message across to the
workers.
Besides using the paper to advantage
in its industrial disputes, the BIC will
undoubtedly use it to enhance its claims
in the many domestic matters it concerns
itself with. Already the BIC says what
prices are to be charged for numerous
commodities, especially beer and spirits.


EDUCATION
JOBS FOR GRADUATES
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
TThe Melbourne University Appoint-
ments Board has come a long way
since it w'as set up as an emergency
measure in 1932 to help graduates find
jobs during the Depression. Its activities
today include not only liaison with
actual and prospective employers of
university talent, but also with potential
undergraduates at the secondary school
level. The board’s officers not only
maintain regular contact with the head-
masters of the secondary schools but
are also available for interviews with
intending students and their parents. A
senes of careers booklets is distributed
and under the board's auspices head-
masters are drawn into conferences on
professional careers with senior members
of the university’s teaching staff.
Over the years the board has plugged
away to enlarge the field of graduate
employment, particularly in the private
sector of the economy. It takes part in
the Annual Summer School of Business
Administration at the university and
assists firms wishing to set up executive
training schemes for graduates. Not
the least valuable of its activities have
been the various surveys and other re-
search projects it has conducted, such as
its report on professional income levels.
Today the board has a staff of 12 and
costs the university more than £17,000
annually.
The board naturally tries to keep tab
on the supply and demand situation,
actual and prospective, for graduates <n
various specialties. Its latest report
introduces some refinements and
expresses doubts whether past measures
have been entirely adequate. It is fairly
simple, the board notes, to estimate the
number of graduates available for
employment in the next three to six
years, but reliable forecasts of demand
“are difficult almost to the point of
impossibility.”
The reason is that different employ-
ers are often seeking widely variant
qualities in graduates, even in those from
the same faculty. Research laboratories
look for first-class academic attainments,
while a firm engaged in manufacturing
or selling chemical or pharmaceutical
piodnets will be more concerned with
the personality and character of the
graduate. The board observes that both
the supply and demand of graduates is
stratified in this way, immensely compli-
cating its predictive tasks. Moreover, a
period of buoyant employment condi-
tions leads to “over-ordering” by employ-
ers and a disdainful attitude on the part
of graduates to certain jobs. Both
factors are extra complications to the
forecaster.
The board says that while it has kept
statistical records of requests made to it
by employers over many years, it now
prefers to regard its graphs as “only a
rough and imperfect measure of trends
in demand.” On the supply side the
beard accepts the demographers’ estimate
that the output of graduates will double
in the next ten to twelve years. This
will overtake the back-log in demand and
the board feels that efforts will be
needed to turn latent demand into active.
“Employers must be persuaded .... that
it is normal to engage graduates, and not
something in the nature of a daring
experiment. Graduates may have to
learn to consider as a starting point jobs
which at present lack appeal. Banking,
insurance and retail trade, for example,
are fields which so far have been unable
to attract graduates, and yet all three of
these fields have been open to them for
years past.”
These observations are, of course,
directed at Arts-Law-Commerce gradu-
ates. On the science front, the board notes
that the largest output has come from
the Physics department. It finds this
surprising in view of the Australian
chemical industry being so highly concen-
trated in Melbourne. “Has nuclear physics
been unduly popularised and glamor-
ised at the secondary school level?” it
asks.
Looking to the future prospects for
non-technical graduates, the board
points out that the increasing enrolments
due to the population “bulge” have not
yet been reflected in graduations. When
this happens, it foresees keener competi-
tion for jobs but fortunately it notes an
increase in the number of firms wanting
graduates for management and executive
training programmes. Clearly, the board
realises that a key factor will be its own
ability to continue “selling” the idea of
employing graduates to those firms not
yet convinced.
HEAT
THE LONG HOT SUMMER
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
Tt would have been quite possible to fry
A an egg in the middle of stately St
George’s Terrace every day in the last
month if any Perthian had been able to
summon up the energy to attempt such
an obvious experiment. The only con-
solation to a wilting populace has been
the succession of records announced with
monotonous regularity by the Weather
Bureau. So far the city has had a record
15 centuries for the summer, a record
average maximum temperature of 93.8
degrees for January and a record mini-
mum of 69.3 degrees. The 24 days in
January above 90 degrees and six success-
ive centuries also broke a record.
February, traditionally the hottest
month of the year, started with three
days above the century and a brief cool
change last w'eek brought the first real
relief in the month-long ordeal.
The heat that gripped the entire State
w'as caused firstly by a vast high pressure
in the southern ocean blocking the tradi-
tional coastal sea breezes and then two
cyclones which brought drought-breaking
rains to the cattle country of the Kimber-
levs and then worked their way slowly
dowm the coast on the seaward side,
again blocking the sea breeze.
Perth’s suffering was more than
matched by the inland towns of the wheat-
belt. The tiny town of Morawa registered
28 days above the century in January
and finished with an average maximum
temperature of almost 104 degrees. In
the first two days of February it
notched up an average maximum of 114.5
degrees.
Western Australians did their best to
ignore these insufferable conditions.
Business went on as usual and Perthians
sought relief at night by sleeping on the
beaches and in their backyards. Soft
drink and beer manufacturers had a
bonanza, with one company registering a
55 per cent, increase in sales over the
previous month. Poultry growers kept
their hoses going all day in an effort to
keep shed temperatures below the critical
107 degrees, a temperature fatal to most
breeds. Bean crops withered on the vine
and prices soared in the city shops.
As each day passed and the sea breeze
failed to arrive, Perthians began to
wonder w'hether they were facing a
pattern of longer, hotter summers. Last
year was one of the worst ever, with 13
centuries in the official summer, dis-
astrous bushfires throughout the South-
West and a record flood at Carnarvon.
Though the State has been spared such
calamities this year by a combination of
care and good luck, its heat pattern is
deeper and longer-lasting.
The Weather Bureau does not concern
itself with such long-range prognostica-
tions, so Western Australians will have to
wait a few years to find out if hotter
summers are here to stay.


“Well, so much for the ingredients ."
POLITICS
RECOUNT IN HOBART
FROMVA HOBART CORRESPONDENT
T7VEN those beyond surprise at the
L SUCC es S ive turns of Tasmanian poli-
, . - . t u
tics were shaken last week when they
i , , T , , .
earned that a new Independent was
, 1T u r
about to enter the House as the result of
r A ~ t u .
preferences given to him as a Label
candidate at the 1959 general election.
Mr B. P. Crawford, after service in the
Navy in World War 11, worked for
Hobart City Council and the Hydro-
Electric Commission before his election
to the House of Assembly as a Labor
member in 1956. He was a good member,
marked down for bigger things, and was
Whip when the House dissolved. How-
ever, party manoeuvres designed to en-
sure’ the return of the Minister for Agri-
culture Mr J. J. Dwyer, then believed to
be in some danger, resulted in Crawford's
surprise defeat at the election.
K . .
Shortly after the election, he left the
party on a question ot principle. The
party’s State conference had come out
strongly against State aid for private
schools, in which a number of members
of the parliamentary party believed.
“There was no personal clash,” Mr
Crawford explained.
After his defeat, he joined an electri-
cal firm, which transferred him to Sydney.
The death of Mr Dwver necessitated a
. c wu u ii , c ,u a
recount of the ballot papers from the
, ncr , ~ , ' . ,
1959 poll—under the Tasmanian system
,*., . . e
of proportional representation, each of
*
the five Federal divisions returns seven
members to the House of Assembly, and
casual vacancies are filled by counting of
the preferences of the member who has
died or resigned. There had been rumors
f hat ' Crawford had Joined the DLP,
bu ‘ though these were denied, Govern-
m “ t members wa ," ed on . lhe rec ° unt
y d unaccustome uneasiness. eir
*“l^a n d
, f c , , , , ~ ,
s“s at
1 am a free thinker and will not
m f sure ? he
said. But I want a fairer distribution of
money for education.” Then fie dropped
another brick. “I also maintain that
there should be compulsory retirement
Q f members of Parliament at 65.” And he
added that he would also do something
about scrapping the Tasmanian multiple-
member electorates.
Crawford’s election cost the Govern-
ment its majority in the House of
Assembly. From 1948 until last Nov-
ember, the Labor Administrations of Mr
(now Sir Robert) Cosgrove and Mr
Reece governed without an absolute
majority. Retirement of Dr R. J. D.
Turnbull as a Bass Independent to contest
the Senate election led to the election
of a Labor candidate, Mr W. H. Fraser,
in his stead, and there were then 18
Labor members, 14 Liberals, two Inde-
pendent Liberals and one Independent
in the House. Now Labor’s tally drops
to 17, the Independents increase to two,
and Mr Reece again becomes dependent
on the whims of Independent Wedd, if
Mr Crawford does not support him.
There is, however, no likelihood of an
election. Mr Wedd, provided the Gov-
ernment does not tread on his pet corns—
and they are now well charted and
readily avoidable —will continue as an
unswerving Government supporter.
Mrs L. A. Heaven, one of the beaten
Labor candidates in the recount, has now
challenged Mr Crawford’s election on
the ground of his residential qualifica-
tion. This issue was canvassed late la<T
year after Fraser’s election to the Bass
vacancy, but most observers discounted
it, interpreting the Constitution Act to
mean that the candidate must be resi-
dentially eligible at the time of the
general election, but not necessarily at the
time of the recount—i.e., when he is
actually elected. Mrs Heaven’s only
course in law is to appeal to the Court
of Disputed Returns, which is presided
over by a Supreme Court Judge.


MASS MEDIA
CRIME AT 8.30
FROM AN ARMIDALE CORRESPONDENT
Students at the recent New England
University conference on “Mass
Media and the Individual” were just as
ardently wooed by conference speakers as
is the general public in the day-to-day
operation of mass media. The six
speakers portrayed themselves as dedica-
ted purists in their own particular field,
ranging from TVs code of morals set
by the Broadcasting Control Board and
laboriously explained by its chairman,
Mr R. G. Osborne, to the purity of Lux
Toilet Soap advertising, extolled by
Lintas advertising executive Mr Ken
Fowles.
In between these extremes of moral
rectitude could be discerned the heroic
virtue of Mr Rupert Murdoch struggling
to maintain a free Press against mono-
polistic competitors, who, we were told,
“have a tendency towards cannibalism”
in their spirited buying up of unwatchful
rivals. Society is reasonably safe, it
would seem, whilst Mr Murdoch stays
in business. Society could take out a
little more assurance however, by grant-
ing Mr Murdoch a television licence in
New South Wales.
The only sceptical note in a welter of
enthusiasm and sincerity was sounded by
the research psychologist Mr Dick
Thomson, who is well known for his
experimental research into the effects of
television crime dramas and “tension”
films on adolescents and children. Mr D.
A. Jose, the board's director of pro-
gramme services, who bears much of the
burden of keeping the commercial stations
in line with the board’s somewhat ambig-
uous standards, could not hide his frus-
tration and irritation with Mr Thomson
at the conference. He charged him with
being inarticulate io so far as not being
able to convey any meaningful research
findings in “simple English” to the
board. In Mr Jose’s view, the researchers
were wasting their own and the board’s
time until they could learn to communi-
cate their findings to the board in a way
in which they could be acted upon.
From where Mr Thomson stood, the
problem was quite a different one. What,
at first sight, appeared to be an interes-
ting and well-sponsored research job
turned into a “hot seat” of controversy
between the vested interests of the
“reformers”, the commercial stations
and the Broadcasting Control Board. The
reformers for their part anticipated evi-
dence damning certain types of pro-
grammes. Commercial stations, on the
other hand, were reluctant to restrict
their freedom to transmit these pro-
grammes in the absence of irrefutable
evidence of their social evil. Worst
placed of all, perhaps, was the Control
Board, which, in setting its disciplinary
standards, required evidence that was
incontestable by both sides if such evi-
dence were to be used at all.
The usefulness of such objective evi-
dence to the board is clearly demon-
strated by the laborious processes by
which it has arrived at its present
standards. It took Mr Osborne over
3000 words of closely reasoned argument
at the conference to arrive at and justify
a set of general requirements which must
cause endless disputes between the Con-
trol Board and commercial stations. The
board, for example, requires that
“decency and decorum are to be pre-
served . . . that certain subjects and ideas
be approached cautiously” (e.g., sex,
divorce, personal afflictions, intoxication,
drugs, cruelty and horror). .. “The selec-
tion of subjects for children’s pro-
grammes ... should be wholesome and
fresh in outlook and avoid the creation
of anxiety.”
To the vociferous annoyance of the
reformers and, it would seem, the Con-
trol Board, research findings were
couched in somewhat equivocal terms.
The board, at any rate, was not prepared
to use this research material in the form
presented by Mr Thomson.
With commendable honesty and ob-
jectivity, Mr Thomson admitted that the
complex array of influences affecting in-
dividual behavior and attitudes might
make it impossible ever to single out the
precise effect of particular television pro-
grammes. Nevertheless, Thomson and
other social researchers at the conference
considered that the available evidence
was sufficient to justify some positive
disciplinary action against certain types
of programmes, provided that the bodies
concerned were prepared to accept a
somewhat lower standard of proof than
Mr Thomson demanded in the interests
of pure research. Briefly, this weight of
evidence suggests that the adverse effect
on children and adolescents of pro-
grammes containing tension or anxiety
elements is largely negatived by reason-
ably good family environment. But
anxieties produced in the absence of such
an environment may have a permanent
effect on the child or adolescent, who
may subsequently require psychiatric
treatment. Under these circumstances the
Melbourne researchers decided to be on
the safe side and recommend that these
programmes should not be shown before
9.30 p.m., as against the existing restric-
tion of 8.30 p.m.
Although the Control Board appears
reluctant to take a stricter line on certain
types of television programmes because
of inadequate research evidence, it seems
unaware of an apparent inconsistency in
its own approach. The board recognises
a responsibility to assist, but not replace,
parents in the supervision of children's
TV viewing. To this end it requires
stations to transmit family and children’s
programmes between 5 and 7.30 p.m.,
when parents may rely on the board's
control of programmes. From 7.30 p.m,
onwards, however, parents are expected
to supervise family viewing, particularly
after 8.30 p.m. when crime and tension
programmes may be broadcast. It is
reasonable to suppose that parents who
provide a satisfactory home environment
will also be the ones who supervise their
children’s viewing and vice versa. Re-
membering the findings which stirred
the Melbourne researchers to action, we
have the paradoxical situation that the
children needing protection most —those
with unsatisfactory family environments
-—are the one least likely to get it,
while the children least needing protec-
tion —those with a satisfactory family
environment —are most likely to get it.
FILM STARS
TUDAWALI'S EXILE
FROM A DARWIN CORRESPONDENT
/"\ne of the Territory's best-known
aborigines, film star Robert Tuda
wall, left Darwin recently for “exile" at
Snake Bay, on Melville Island. He went
at his own request, to “rehabilitate" him-
self.
Since his starring role in the Chauvel
film “Jedda” Tudawali’s story has been
one of ups and downs: high peaks when
he was earning big money on a southern
television series ; depths like that bitter
Christmas when he was taken off to
Fannie Bay Jail to do time for supplying
liquor to a fellow-native.
During those years since “Jedda'’ he
has, in the words cf a Darwin magistrate,
built up “quite a record" for misde-
meanors connected with alcohol (taboo
to “wards", who make up all but a hand-
ful of the Territory’s aboriginal popula-
tion). It was only a traffic offence that
brought him before the Police Court


again the other day. As he pleaded guilty
to a charge of having driven a car with-
out a licence on December 16, there was
little about him to remind court idlers
of the football hero who electrified Dar-
win fans so few seasons back. He looked
thin and worn, his dignified good looks
still there, but getting a little frayed
about the edges.
Welfare Officer Ted Harvey told
Justices of the Peace B. Hockley and
N. Lynagh that Tudawali had found it
hard to settle down to normal life in
Darwin after being “made a fuss of”
when appearing on television and in films
down south. He had been in “several
scrapes" lately and had asked the Welfare
Branch to send him to Snake Bay so he
could “rehabilitate” himeslf. Tudawali
had been unable to get work in Darwin,
Mr Harvey said, but would walk into a
job with the Government forestry project
at Snake Bay.
The Court fined Tudawali £5 with 15s.
costs. He was given a month to pay —a
period which Mr Lynagh described as
“unusual and not likely to be repeated.”
Next day an aircraft whisked him away
to Melville Island.
Most of Tudawali’s troubles, like the
late Albert Namatjira’s. go back to the
pull between two worlds, plus a natural
Territorian’s liking for the bottle.
Possibly one way out for him would be
to apply for citizenship, which he could
have had once for the asking. But
Tudawali himself has never pushed hard
in that direction. He told a Darwin news-
man once: “I have never asked to be a
citizen. The Welfare Branch will give
it to me when they think I am ready.”
“This is Colonel Carlo Dominguez. I am your neW President...
CRAFTS
THE PASSING OF THE HATTERS
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
HThe ancient craft of the felt hatter is
-*■ all but extinct in Victoria and last
week Mr Ollie McKelson, federal secre-
tary of the Federated Felt Hatting
Employees’ Union for the past 20 years,
handed over his duties to Mr W. C.
Peters, MLC, the secretary of the union’s
NSW branch. The industry is not too
robust in NSW either, but at least there
are some 450 still practising the trade
there, compared with a mere 40 in Vic-
toria, where the first branch of the union
was formed in 1878. In NSW the felt
hatters did not get organised until 1902.
The production figures issued by the
Commonwealth Satistician for “hats, fur
and wool felt” tell the story of the
industry’s rapid decline. In 1948-49
Australia produced 335,000 dozen, but
by 1960-61 this had fallen to 76,000
dozen —only enough to provide hats for
about one in four of the adult male
population. The decline seems to be an
accelerating one —the first three months
of 1960 saw 20,500 dozen hats made, but
the same period a year later only yielded
12,900 dozen.
Whatever the reason, the hatter seems
doomed to follow the cooper and the
candlestick-maker into near-oblivion.
Mr McKelson thinks that a variety of
causes is to blame "big combines,’
cheap imports, the high price of rabbit
skins since the myxo drive and “new
dress crazes.” He said there were six
factories in Victoria in 1948, but only
one today, the other five having been
closed by ‘‘big combines.” More to the
point is the fact that the young Aus-
tralian is simply not interested in wealing
the felt hat that was so de rigueur for his
father. If he wears a hat at all, it is just
as likely to be of tweed, silk, plasticised
cotton or pure plastic.
Making a felt hat involves so many
different processes that one marvels that
the whole thing could ever be worth
while. Felt is made by laying suitable
fibres together so that they interlock to
form an even sheet ; there is no weaving,
nor is any bonding material used. Wool
has suitable characteristics for felting,
but rabbit fur is far superior, giving a
firmer and more durable felt.
Machines are used to cut the fur from
the pelt and in 1956 about nine million
rabbit skins annually were being shaved.
Then, in a cupboard-like machine, the fur
is deposited by suction evenly over a
cone which has a rough resemblance to
the crown of a hat. Simultaneously, a
fine spray of water plays on the deposit-
ing fur. It shrinks and in the process
becomes more felt-like and durable.
This dome-like approximation to a hat
then goes through an amazing se r ies ot
hand operations hardening, settling,
crozing, shrinking, stumping, pouncing
and proofing before coming on to mach-
ine-tipping and machine-brimming. At
this stage the embryo hat still has to be
blocked, then stoved (i.e. dried), steamed
(to shape the crown), finished (smoothed
with flint paper curled and framed (to
give final shape to the brim). It must
also be veloured (polished with a heated
moleskin pad).
Such details as fixing on the bindings,
bands and linings are left to female
labor and are not part of the hatter's job.
Mr McKelson said the industry reached
its peak in Victoria in 1925 when some
1000 hatters were employed. Perhaps the
hatters and their employers knew in their
hearts that their craft, w'hile ancient, still
rested on ephemeral fashion. What else
is there to explain the periodic campaigns
to make the Australian male conform to
hat-wearing? There are still elderly
unionists who consider it virtually part
of the Labor creed to wear a hat, a felt
one. Before the last war many unionists
accepted an unwritten rule that one didn’t
march in the Eight Hour Day procession
without a hat. No doubt the hatters
were only too happy to foster this tradi-
tion. In any event, they survived slightly
longer than the procession which did so
much to establish the conformity of hat-
wearing.


THE RADIO REVOLUTION
When the glamor went out. ..
By DESMOND O'GRADY
Australian commercial radio has
always been a virtually protected
industry. There are only 110
stations in the Commonwealth;
and a centre such as Sydney has only
six commercial stations, whereas a com-
parable American city such as Los
Angeles has 26. Radio has always had
it good and before the advent of tele-
vision it was a glamor industry with a
star system typical of show business,
and a complacency fostered by its long
dominance of evening audiences. City
television ended all that. Country tele-
vision will be the final turn of the screw:
it will mean the death of the remaining
evening feature programming which some
networks have continued to produce for
their country affiliates even though 80
per cent, of the city audience has been
lost to television.
Yet after five years of this ruthless
competition radio is flourishing as never
before. The radio revolution, or counter-
revolution, has been a tremendous success
and the industry, though less glamorous
nowadays, is sound, secure and profitable.
Lewis Bennett of Melbourne’s 3UZ
and Alan Faulkner of 2UE in Sydney
were among the first to pioneer and
develop the big changes in the nature
of radio. Sydney’s 2SM is a good ex-
ample of the “new” radio in operation.
It realised that radio must transform it-
self or die, so it might be as well to
see how it met TV's challenge under
Mr Bill Stephenson, who was appointed
2SM’s manager in 1956, at the age of
47, after being with 2UE for 13 years
as a selling executive.
The Stephenson scheme to organise for
competition with TV was based on the
premise that TV would win all along
the line with live shows. Lengthy
dramatic and feature sessions were
gradually eliminated and music became
the dominant entertainment. The news
broadcasts were increased and public
service features greatly expanded. These
three developments took place in other
stations also and gave rise to the charge
that the commercial stations are little
more than juke boxes churning out mind-
less music for teenagers. True enough,
the stations at first swung violently to-
wards the most blatant teenage music
as their salvation. However, that policy
has been modified by nearly every
station. To return to 2SM, it has settled
on a policy of excluding extreme fads
and raucous music to cater for people
with middle-of-the-road tastes.
In 1956 there were three 15-minute
news services daily over 2SM. Now there
are 207 capsule news broadcasts weekly,
with a news flash every half hour be-
tween 5.30 a.m. and 10.30 p.m. during
weekdays and hourly at weekends. SM
pioneered the newspatrol in Sydney: the
station has five vehicles with two-way
radio. They cruise on the lookout for
news and when anything breaks can be
directed to the scene from which they
make a direct broadcast. The station
makes great capital out of the immediacy
radio can achieve: their concept of “live'’
news means that on every possible occa-
sion they mix an actuality broadcast with
a report: for instance, when the Austra-
lia Day ceremonies are summarised
there may be a few moments from one
of the speeches made on the occasion.
SM is a small station when compared
with, say, 2UE ; it has a staff of 40 in
all, but nine of these are journalists. As
with other stations, it has access to the
news services of a daily paper and also to
a wire service. It uses the BBC Radio
Newsreel twice daily and, occasionally,
the Voice of America.
The public service features were
2SM’s third means of capturing interest.
They broadcast on-the-spot reports on
peak traffic situations and, in another
service for motorists, supply direct
details of the parking facilities in
the city each morning. This summer
their shark planes are patrolling at week-
ends and broadcasting through the station
to the people on the beaches. This
answer to the TV challenge has brought
good returns —SM’s revenue over the last
five years has increased by 50-60 per cent.
In radio as a whole in 1960, when the
estimated total advertising investment
rose to £10,250,000, the revenue was up
eight per cent, on the 1959 figure. Radio
did well even during the credit squeeze
and there can be only two reasons for its
buoyancy: it is proving elective, and
letting people know it.
As the 1960 George Patterson adver-
tising agency and radio television report
remarked: “Radio is well ahead of
television in its knowledge or the market,
its capacity to devise promotions for
specialised advertisers and events, its
attractive frequency discounts, arid its
presentation of propositions. Also, prob-
ably from longer experience, radio repre-
sentatives seem to have a far keener ap-
preciation of advertising processes than
their television counterparts." Promotion
is a large part of the radio success story,
but promotion does not get far without a
good product. It may be an exaggeration
to say that television saved radio, but it
certainly made it more aware of its par-
ticular gifts and more energetic in pro-
moting them. It lost its position as the
night-time family entertainer but found
a greater cumulative audience spread
right throughout the day.
'T'his change happened along with the
introduction of portable transistor
and car radios. As television captured
the evening audience, radio found new
listeners who carried their transistors into
every room of the house, out on to the
beaches, and kept their car radios on
while driving to and from work. The
size of the potential audience built up by
these developments can be appreciated
from the current figures for the produc-
tion of sets: it is estimated that there
are 6,500,000 sets in use. that 98 per cent,
of homes have a radio and about 40 per
cent, have more than one set.
Radio claims an almost 100 per cent,
coverage of the audience through cumu-
lative listening by all age groups through-
out the day. A recent survey conducted
by a commercial research organisation
with the co-operation of the Audio Visual
Aids and Psychology departments of
Melbourne University backs that claim:
“interview records show a huge and con-
stant turnover of audience throughout
each day, indicating that radio reaches
almost 100 per cent, of adolescents and
adults between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m.”


Advertisers, who are the ones to test
,uch claims, apparently are satisfied by
radio’s coverage and penetration. They
now seem convinced that radio offers
advantages not to be found elsewhere:
in absolute money terms radio advertising
revenue is steadily increasing and both
national and smaller advertisers recognise
its effectiveness. This success results from
radio adapting its advertising techniques
to the new circumstances: formerly, radio
advertisers reached audiences through a
sponsored show, but now they reach
their audience by “spot” announcements
aimed at specific groups, and these can be
repeated throughout the day to contact
a mass audience.
TVefore convincing others of its
** vitality, radio convinced itself. It has
done a splendid job of selling itself to
itself; radio advertising salesmen talk
about the industry, about radio, rather
than specific programmes, with an almost
missionary fervor. This conviction is no
doubt fostered by ARAB (the Australian
Radio Advertising Bureau), which was
founded last year by the Federation of
Commercial Broadcasting Stations in
order to promote radio on an industry
basis.
Under its director, B. J. Dargaville, it
aims at a “conservative image” by using
only properly researched and authentic
material. This week, on February 19, it
is opening a clinic at Tamworth, NSW,
which will be commercial radio’s first
regional clinic, embracing the towns of
Tamworth, Taree, Kempsey, Armidale
and Gunnedah. Discussions on the
nature of modern radio and its use will
be held among radio executives from
country stations, and panel discussions
on the use of radio will be provided for
local businessmen. In addition, ARAB
will collate regional, social and economic
information which will be of use to
advertising agencies when they want to
buy radio and, in co-operation with an
outside research body, w'ill conduct an
audience survey. During the clinic, local
stations will give examples of radio’s
selling power.
Obviously radio these days is no busi-
ness like show business. Now that its
glamor era has gone it prides itself on
being a “merchandising, a service, and
an instantaneous national communica-
tions” medium. All this has happened
within one generation : most of the origi-
nals are moving out of the industry and
some of them regard the changes as
tragic. Radio actors have been loudest,
but not alone, in lamenting them. Mr Stan
Clark, managing director of 2GB and
Macquarie, who has been with radio
since its early days, has a very different
angle on things.
According to Mr Clark the wheel has
turned full circle in radio: after one
generation, he says, radio has recap
tured the enthusiasm of its first years
Clark, who was educated at Melbourne
Grammar, entered radio from the record
business. In 1935, on his twenty-fourth
birthday, he came from Christies’ record
department to 3DB as programme direc-
tor. Apart from six years in the Middle
East, Greece, Crete and the Philippines
with the Army, which he entered as a
private and left as a major with an MBE,
he has been with radio ever since. He
transferred from 3DB to become manager
of 4BK Brisbane and 4AK Darling Downs
in 1949, and in 1954 became Executive
Assistant Managing Director of 2GB, the
Macquarie network and Artransa studios.
Radio was just getting under way when
he left school but was regarded more as
a novelty toy than as an industry.
Naturally, electrical firms were interested
in it. Electrical contractors, for instance,
started 3UZ, and newspapers toyed wfih
radio as a promotional gimmick—the
Melbourne “Herald” set up a station in a
small room in the same building as the
Drooleigh Business College, hence the
call sign DB. Nobody realised the poten-
tial of the new medium but those who
worked in it were fired by a crazy
enthusiasm —they were Jacks-of-all-trades
and thought nothing of working a 55-
hour w'eek. Stan Clark recalls his first
and last starring role was to bark like a
sheep dog in a serial, “The Drover’s
Camp”. For a couple of years he would
stay back at night after a full day’s
work to act dog-like at appropriate
moments. By 1935, microphone per-
sonalities were establishing themselves,
men such as Charley Vaude, Alf
Andrews, Renn Miller, Norman Banks,
Cliff Nicholls, Eric Welch and John
Stewart. The broadcasts of the Test
matches in England brought a new
audience.
Another boost came during the war
when, because of the newsprint shortage,
money flowed into radio and people
turned to it for news, particularly for
the BBC bulletins. In the postwar period
wireless became radio. Personalities
starred in feature programmes; Jack
Da/ey could reach 5,000,000 people in one
night and there were Bob Dyer, Willie
Fennell, John Masters, Roy Rene, Jack
Burgess, Dorothy and George Foster,
Keith Smith, Dick Fair, Harry Dearth
and Terry Dear, but now the stations
push services more than “stars”.
TXFhat keeps a man such as Stan Clark
interested throughout these
changes? His answer is, “a subtle satis-
faction out of serving the community”.
He still gets that kick these days when, he
says, radio demands more ingenuity, skills
and vision than ever before in the battle
for the public’s leisure time, although he
admits that his most enjoyable period
was nine years as script writer and pro-
ducer for DB’s “Crazy Capers”.
His most memorabit Jay in radio
followed the death of King George VI.
At the time he was managing a Brisbane
station and had prepared two pro-
grammes, one for the death of the King,
the other for the death of Winston
Churchill, back to back on the one disc.
He arranged for St Andrews Presbyter-
ian choir to record “God save the Queen”
and, in the event, this recording was the
only source of “God save the Queen” for
many other stations. But, despite this
foresight, the station goofed memorably:
“God save the Queen” sounded, then a
funereal voice said “Winston Churchill
is dead.” The Brisbane “Telegraph”
heard the broadcast, told Reuters and the
mistake was reported around the world.
The station apologised for the next 24
hours and Stan Clark considered apolo-
gising to Churchill.
In Clark’s opinion, Australian com-
mercial radio has always learnt front
America: quizzes and amateur hours in
the early years and, later, research and
merchandising techniques, and pro-
gramme gimmicks. He believes that our
radio has more to learn from that source;
he refers to the NBC station which de-
votes 57 per cent, of its time to news and
public affairs broadcasts, and to the Wash-
ingtf n Post station WTOP which broad-
casts four hours of news daily. Mr Clark
sees in the future further expansion of the
news and service aspects of radio, and an
increase in its editorial content. There will
be development in commentaries and
public affairs broadcasts on the lines
of forums about subjects such as
parole, civil defence and capital punish-
ment. As regards an editorial voice, radio,
in the most controversial political ques-
tions, will rely on commentators express-
ing their opinions, but it will take a stand
on matters of community interests such
as closing hours, civic beautification,
banking hours and clean-up weeks.
f\r- course there is no unanimity about
the way radio will, or should, develop.
There are those in the industry, for
instance, who are “anti-promotionalist”
and opposed to huckstering. Another
factor which hinders generalisation about
commercial radio is the differences of
ownership and policy: in Sydney alone
control varies from a newspaper to a
political party and a Church, and while
some stations are especially attentive to
say, motorists, others cater for racial
groups. 2UW goes right against the main
current; it has continued feature pro-
gramming with success. Again, there is not
only a difference between city and country
requirements but differences in radio from
city to city.
While admitting the variety of radio,
it is still possible to make some general


comments. Stations are conscious of the
fact that they do not have a captive
audience and fear that listeners will
either choose another station or switch-
off altogether. Consequently, they keep
all items brief and give an impression
of being jumpy and bitsy. When a
station gets a good feature it should
have the courage to let it run —that way
it will make a lasting impression on those
who stay with it.
A connected point is that when radio
has an outstanding service it should let
people know about it. Recent examples
were the scoop interview of Dr Soekarno
by 2UE’s Tom Jacobs, and 2CH’s cover-
age of the World Council of Churches
meeting at New Delhi. Both these fine
services went unremarked: one had to
dig into the trade press to read about
them. Radio’s news services played
an outstanding part in combating
last month’s bushfires near Melbourne ;
with normal communications cut, radio
news cars sent out urgent messages from
police and fire chiefs. 3AW had 12
journalists working in the bushfire area
and 3UZ had nine, as well as an aero-
plane which the police used.
The occasion backed all radio’s claims
for flexibility, immediacy, its advantages
when it comes to local news, its coverage
of the whole metropolitan area, and its
community service, but it did not get its
performance over to those who did not
listen to it. It would have made an
excellent subject for a radio magazine,
but there isn’t one ; just why is one of
the major mysteries of the industry.
Radio is making an honest attempt
to supply top-class, accurate and compre-
hensive news services. Many industry
executives are conscious of a responsi-
bility in this respect but often presenta-
tion is not equal to their intentions.
More sophistication of approach would
bring dividends: “live” news can be as
dead as reported items especially if it
is too brief to make sense or too blurred
to be understood ; presentation can be
punchy but there is not a world crisis
every half-hour and some of the news
readers could be booked for over-acting
No one would expect them to be stiff
lipped but when they get a good story
they should try underplaying it. Their
build-up for the American spaceman
flight was too high-pitched, made too
many claims and took no account of
the fact that Glenn’s flight might have
been postponed.
There are encouraging signs that radio
may pay as much attention to quality
programming as it has to efficient mer-
chandising. Radio runs the risk of rating
itself as background music to daily life ;
it should believe that it can grasp and
hold listeners’ full attention. Today it
is pleasant for the 85 per cent, who listen
to it, but tomorrow it could be challeng-
ing. Some managements complain that for
their quality music sessions they cannot
find or hold sponsors, but they keep them
going all the same. If one listens to this
type of session one finds they consist
mainly of such bromides as the “Bar-
carolle,” “The Stars Were Shining,”
the “Nuns’ Chorus,” “Dance of the
Hours,” and “The Desert Song.” If
these supposedly “popular” classics
cannot find a sponsor, why not convert
to a programme that might have a
following—either classics that have not
been worn to a point of ineffable bore-
dom, or jazz. Radio is now interested
in minorities but it is timid when it
comes to cultural minorities. To put it
in terms the industry should appreciate,
"I don't like my cooking either, but I'm not always wingeing about it"
it might be time for commercial radio to
improve its image with the intelligentsia.
CBS found an audience for university
standard lectures —couldn’t some stations
try a similar approach here? It needs
sufficient courage and persistence to
create an audience if it is slow in re-
sponding, but it may be worth the effort,
prestige-wise.
/"'vne of the signs that keeps hopes alive
is a renewed interest in night pro-
gramming. The morning sessions are
radio’s strong point and there are viable
afternoon shows such as 2UE’s “Sound-
about,” a potpourri of music, news and
interviews, but radio was tempted to
abandon the evenings to juke box churn-
irgs when television took over. Now
2GB, for one, is presenting programmes,
not a random selection of discs: evenings
of such entertainers as Belafonte,
Shelley Berman, Roger Williams, Dave
Brubeck, Sammy Davis, of a complete
Van Cliburn performance of Tchaikow-
sky’s “Piano Concerto No. 1,” “Kismet,”
and “The Mikado” complete, and the
Italia prize-winning Australian dramatisa-
tion “Death of a Wombat.” The “Dun-
lop Hour,” one of 3DB’s evening ses-
sions, has played Sibelius’s “Second
Symphony,” and 3KZ devoted an hour
to the Hoffnung Interplanetary Music
Festival.
Stations operate under a licence
granted by the Broadcasting Control
Board which must ensure that “adequate
and comprehensive programmes are pro-
vided ... to serve the best interests of
the public.” The board polices a code
which the stations must observe, and can
insist, as it is doing at the moment, that
stations maintain their children’s
sessions even though television’s car-
toons win hands down in the late after-
noon. But the Broadcasting Control
Board's terms of reference are too vague
for it to do much positively about
quality. Improvement there has to come
from those who run the industry.
When it comes to this crucial ques-
tion, it is useless to hark back to the days
when radio was a different medium;
when, in fact, it was show business. It
is just as irrelevant to lament the fact
that it is not subsidised radio. The only
constructive attitude is to hope that, while
securing its economic base, it will look
beyond this, that it shall not regard its
audience as consumers to be soothed
with syrup, and that it shall not consider
education, information, and entertain-
ment as mutually exclusive. In fact, there
are commercial radio executives who say
that the obsession with the client’s dollar,
the belief that it is the most important
thing, is radio’s most dangerous illusion.
That outlook is the most hopeful sign
of all in commercial radio.


FASCIST MENACE IN FRANCE?
Why the Secret Army failed
From NEIL McINNES in Paris
Seven years of repression directed
against the Arab nationalist move-
ment in Algeria have demonstrated
that it is impossible—short of
literal genocide— to put down a terrorist
insurrection that benefits from the com-
plicity of a whole community. The
majority may shudder at the terrorists’
violence, but as long as it approves their
objective—the liberation of the com-
munity—it will nourish and protect
them ; defaulters can be terrorised into
support or liquidated. The forces of
repression are faced with a hydra ; as
fast as leaders are arrested or networks
disrupted a dozen more take their place.
Yet if the movement seeks to extend its
activity to a community that does not
protect it, as when the FLN tried to
“carry the war into France,” a suffici-
ently ruthless police can smother it.
These same conclusions apply to the
Secret Army Organisation, for it is, no
less than the National Liberation Front,
the reaction of a community that is fight-
ing for its right to exist as a community.
Indeed, the Army is modelled on the
Front, whose terrorist methods it
watched for years and now copies
exactly. To say that it is a Fascist
organisation is like saying, as the Right
has said for a decade, that the Front is
a communist instrument: true to the
extent that it has been “white-anted”
by ideologists, but irrelevant alongside
the fact that it is the expression of a
community at bay. Besides, the poor
whites of Bab-el-Oued (the prole suburb
of Algiers) who now staff the Secret
Army were mostly communist until the
Arabs revolted ; Bal-el-Oued returned a
communist Deputy throughout the
19305. Political ideology is just trim-
ming when communal warfare begins,
when rival racial or religious groups
begin the elemental struggle for the right
to live their way in their own country.
The FLN has expressed, in its assassi-
nations, ambushes and terrorism the
claim of several million Arabs to free-
dom, economic equality and plain
dignity (e.g., the right to be called vous
and not tu) in their own country, where
rights and power and wealth were mono-
polised by a substantial minority, mostly
white in color and partly French by
ancestry. For long, too long, this chim
was resisted by that minority, by the
French nation and by the Army it sent
to pacify Algeria. Now at last de
Gaulle has persuaded the French and
their Army to cease this resistance. The
white community and its large Moslem
retinue (don’t forget that even the
Southern Seccessionists had willing Negro
troops during the Civil War) are left
on their own.
They have few illusions about their
fate in an independent Algeria where a
vengeful Arab majority would seek, first,
to settle accounts and then to begin
the process of extermination and expul-
sion. They wisely place no trust in the
promises of nationalist terrorists
anxious to assume power nor in the
guarantees of a distant French nation
more interested in its economic progress
and military might than in an awkw:.rd
community that obstinately refuses to be
sacrificed to history. Since they num-
ber a million and a half and are still
richer, better armed and organised than
the seven or eight million Arabs, their
Secret Army can never be put dc .1 by
the French authorities who are about to
hand over to the FLN ; and after the
transfer of power the Secret Army is
capable of pulling the young republic
down in chaos. It will stop at nothing,
for it knows that its crimes during the
last seven years and the exploitation the
white community has practised for 130
years entitle it to no quarter.
Co much for the role of the Secret
Army in Algeria ; but it is its attempt
to carry the war into France that has
attracted outside attention to it. This
attempt is a failure, like the FLN’s
before it, and was scarcely ever serious,
for the French completed their psycho-
logical decolonisation several years ago
and have better things to think about.
Ben Kheddar, the FLN leader, said the
other day that the SAO was “an internal
French problem,” which meant only that
he did not make annihilation of the
Secret Army a pre-condition of an
agreement with de Gaulle ; but taken
literally, it is just the reverse of the
truth. The SAO is the internal problem
of the Algerian Republic, and may be
an insoluble one. But for France it is
almost negligible. The perfectly random
series of explosions in Paris and one
or two more audacious coups de main
are deplorable in the eyes of the Prefect
of Police, for they make him look silly,
but they are politically without signifi-
cance. The SAO has made no contact
with the live political forces of this
country (admittedly, a hundred likely
apologists were preventively interned), it
has staffed its “networks” with ineffec-
tual Poujadist shopkeepers with a taste
for powder.
Their bluff had a purpose, and just con-
ceivably might have worked. If the Left
could have been “intoxicated” into
taking seriously its own empty declama-
tion about “the Fascist menace,” it
might have panicked into a Popular
Front with the communists—whom the
SAO sought to sensitise by blowing up
CP offices and killing one party member.
Naturally, faced with a Popular Front
or with communists in the streets, the
French—not just the bourgeoisie but the
socialists and peasants, maybe four-
fifths of the nation—would have panicked
into alliance with the so-called Fascists,
for they prefer phoney Fascists to real
communists. De Gaulle would then have
been asked to withdraw to a museum,
and a frightened anti-communist coali-
tion might have decided to put more
force into the hands of the white com-
munity in Algeria. But the bluff didn’t
work. The SAO thugs sent to peaceful
France from the nightmare atmosphere
of Algiers were hopelessly lost and
could not manage to look terrifying;
the communists could not take them
seriously and the rest of the Left saw
the trap too plainly ; the police kept its
main eye on the communists while
avoiding, after an initial error last
December, to aggravate them by hitting
their “anti - Fascist demonstrators”
harder than the phoney Fascists; and
an ostentatious display of law-and-order
equipment in the streets was enough to
balance the bluff of random bomb-
planting by the SAO.
On one hypothesis, and I suppose it
is the most optimistic one, the real
Fascist menace for France lies some
years in the future. After a holocaust in
the style of the Punjab massacres, the
Arab majority in Algeria will probably
succeed in expelling what remains of
the indigestible white minority—where-
upon a million or so bitter, dispossessed
and homeless people will have to be
accommodated in a foreign country that
many of them have never seen: Fiance.
With the blind rancor of a community
that got in history’s way, they will blame
France for their misfortunes. Only a
vigorously expanding economy could
absorb this festering lump of poison, a
million men and women who have lost
everything, their homeland and their
goods, their skies and their cemeteries.


Mr. K„ WHAT WERE
DOING UNDER STALIN?
A glance through the files of "Izvestia" and "Pravda" in the Stalin era
In their speeches to the recent Moscow
Congress, Mr Khrushchev and his
friends have related at length how
Molotov, Kaganovitch, Malenkov,
Voroshilov and other “anti-party” com-
munist officials behaved themselves
during that sinister period called that of
the Stalinist personality cult, that is, at
the time of the dreadful massacres of
1934-38. Those dreadful mass-murders
destroyed almost all the political, military
and social elites of the Soviet com-
munist society.
But these same orators have kept abso-
lute silence on their own role during that
period. Since the recalling of historic
events is in fashion in Moscow these days
and since strict silence upon this past is
apparently the rule in the communist
Press, it is most interesting to consult
back issues of “Izvestia” and Pravda ”,
the two official newspapers whose
credit and influence are still considerable
in the Soviet Union.
In 1957, before the General Assembly
of the Central Committee of the Soviet
Communist party, Nikita Khrushchev
launched his first heavy attack against
the “anti-party” group. In 1961 he
returned to the attack:
“The comrades suggest that we render
immortal the memory of all the eminent
personalities of Party and State who
have been the victims of arbitrary repres-
sive measures during the one and only
period of personality cult. We approve
the suggestion.”
But when, in August, 1936, started in
Moscow the first great trial of sixteen
“eminent communist personalities,” hav-
ing at their head G. Zinoviev, former
chairman of the Leningrad Soviet and
ex-chairman of the Communist Inter-
national and L. Kamenev, ex-chairman
of the Moscow Soviet, ex-vice-president
of the Soviet Government and an old
companion of Lenin, comrade Khrush-
chev, without even waiting for the ver-
dict which was to condemn the sixteen
to death, declared in “Izvestia” of
August 23, 1936:
“Whoever rejoices in the successes of
our country and in the victories won by
our Party under the banner of the great
Stalin will find only one word worthy
of these Fascist mercenary dogs of the
Trotsky-Zinoviev gang: death, death by
execution. And although Trotsky, the
leader of this gang and an ally of the
German Gestapo, is absent from the
dock, the anger of the people and the
verdict of the tribunal will catch up
with him, wherever he may be.”
Leon Trotsky, as everybody knows,
was murdered in Mexico, in 1940, by
an agent of the Gepeou (Soviet Secret
Police) called Jack Mornard.
In the same speech of October 27,
Mr Khrushchev branded with particular
violence the murder of the Red Army
chiefs led by Marshal Toukhatchevski.
At that particular time, however, six
days exactly before the execution of
Toukhatchevski and of his companions
was officially announced, Khrushchev
hastened to denounce, at the Moscow
“activists’ ” conference, these same Army
commanders, particularly General
Gamarnik, deputy Commissar for
Defence and commander of the Red
Army’s political commissars, who com-
mitted suicide before being arrested. This
apparently is the reason why Khrushchev
attacked him in the following terms:
“A Trotskyist renegade, a traitor to
the Fatherland, an enemy of the people,
Gamarnik was yet a member of the
Moscow Committee. Which shows that
the enemy can assume every kind of
disguise to achieve its subversive action.
But these traitors, the Toukhatchevskis,
the Gamarniks and others should know
that we will unmask them and destroy
them and reduce them to dust which we
will then scatter to the winds, so
that no trace is left of those renegades,
of those traitors to the Socialist Father-
land.”
It is the same Khrushchev, who revelled
in that hysteria of hatred, who made that
call to murder against Toukhatchevski,
Gamarnik and other military leaders of
the USSR, who now pretends to be
as innocent as a lamb and protests with
indignation against their murder.
Tn his speeches to the 20th Party Con-
A gress in 1956 and during the recent
22nd Congress, Khrushchev repeatedly
said that the personality cult had led as
from 1934 to the establishment of a reign
of terror and to the extravagant praising
of Stalin. But in that same year, 1934,
during the 17th Congress of the USSR
Communist party, Khrushchev especially
distinguished himself in heaping
laudatory superlatives on Stalin’s name,
for example, by the repeated use of the
word “genius.” Speaking for the first
time before Stalin, Khrushchev said:
“The Moscow organisation will stand
closer by the side of our great leader,
Comrade Stalin, and under his banner we
will march to new victories.”
Actually, those new victories, according
to what Khrushchev himself revealed,
meant the destruction, the murder of
more than seventy per cent, of the mem-
bers of the Central Committee, elected
during that same 17th Congress, at the
order of the “genius Stalin”!
As from 1934, Khrushchev takes ad-
vantage of every opportunity to flatter
and sing hymns to the glory of Stalin.
Here are a few specimens of those
speeches which he delivered during the
most bloody period of the personality
cult era.
1937 - Khrushchev, chief of the
Moscow party organisation, arranges a
huge meeting attended by 200.000
Muscovites. Its purpose was to approve
the verdict of another mass-trial against
the Radek-Piatakov group, eminent per-
sonalities of the party and State, charged
simply with having planned to murder
Stalin. Khrushchev is the chief speaker
at this meeting. According to “Pravda”
dated January 31, 1937, he declares:
“Those murderers have raised their
weapons at the very heart and brains of
our Party. They have raised their murder-
ous weapons against Comrade Stalin.
In raising their weapons against Com-
rade Stalin, they have tried to strike the
working class, the working people in
the whole world. In raising their
weapons against Comrade Stalin, they
have threatened the teachings of Marx,
Engels, Lenin. In their attempt on
the life of Comrade Stalin, they have
taken aim at the best man Humanity has
to boast of. Because Stalin is our Hope,
the flame guiding Humanity on its march
forward. Stalin is our flag, Stalin is our
will, Stalin is our victory.”
1938 Khrushchev has just been pro-
moted by Stalin to the leadership of the
Ukrainian party. Organising the elec-
tions of the Supreme Soviet, he takes
good care to propose the name of Stalin
as first candidate.
“Comrades, in two days, on June 26,
all the electors of the ‘Stalin’ constituency
of Kiev will go to the polls and give their


HTS
LYS
ROO
100% Australian-
made from Aus-
tralian Material
LYSAGHTS
ESTABLISHED 1884
WIRE NETTING • FENCING WIRE • BARBED WIRE
WIRE NAILS
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER
in every Roll of Netting
&
ZINC OXIDE
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
IYSAGHT BROS. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d 'Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road,
Five Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT’S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
votes to the first candidate of the
Ukrainian people as Deputy to the
Supreme Council of the Ukrainian Soviet
Republic. They will give their votes to
the guide and protector of the people, to
the great Stalin. We vote for you, great
Stalin, you were the genius companion
and the friend of great Lenin.”
Khrushchev also had two thousand
telegrams of praise sent to Stalin, for
example, this message from the Kiev
housewives:
“The Soviet people pronounce the
name of Stalin with affection and
warmth and cordial sincerity. The eyes
of our children sparkle with joy when
they say: Stalin, you are our pride, you
are our hope today and, still more, you
are our radiant future.”
1939 —Stalin convenes the 18th Con-
gress of his party, after having extermin-
ated the majority of the delegates to the
preceding 1934 Congress. Not only has
Khrushchev survived but, while still
keeping the position of leader of the
Ukrainian party, he is now promoted
member of the Politburo of the USSR
Communist party.
It is in this double capacity that he
delivers a speech from the tribune of the
18th Congress, in which he declares:
“The Ukrainian communists are
united as never before around the
Stalinist Central Committee of the Party
and its leader, great Stalin. The affection
of the Ukrainian Bolsheviks for Stalin
expresses the trust and the love of the
whole Ukrainian people. That is why
the Ukrainian people proclaim: ‘Long
live our beloved Stalin!’”
Ten years later, on the occasion of
Stalin's 70th birthday, Comrade Khrush-
chev exclaims:
“The greatest merit of Comrade Stalin
is that during his resolute struggle against
the enemies of ihe people: Mensheviks,
Revolutionary Socialists, Trotskyists,
Zionvievists, Bukharinists, etc., he has
kept pure the flame of the Leninist
doctrine. Today the people hail with all
their heart our beloved Stalin. Glory to
the beloved father, to the enlightened
educator, to the genius leader of the
Soviet People’s Party and of workers in
the entire world. Glory to Comrade
Stalin! ”
Tn his secret report delivered in February,
J 1956, Khrushchev said of Beria:
“It is now proven that this criminal has
climbed the rungs of Party and State
office in treading upon immense numbers
of corpses.”
At the recent Moscow Congress,
Khrushchev, Mikoyan, Shelepin,
Suslov and others brought the same kind
of accusation against the “anti-party”
group.
But that same metaphor of treading
upon corpses can serve for Khrushchev.
Contrary to “anti-party” leaders like
Molotov, Kaganovitch. Voroshilov, and
others who were already occupying key-
positions in the party before the corpses
started to pile up, the ascent of Khrush-
chev in the Soviet hierarchv is absolu-
tely parallel to the Stalinist massacres.
Before the elimination of the Bolshevik
Old Guard by Stalin, Khrushchev was
only the pupil of a small technical college
(Rab-Fak). But after the expulsion and
the physical removal of the old Bolshe-
viks, he was able to introduce himself
into the central machinery of the party.
Later, when Stalin, during a second wave
of frenzy, exterminated the top members
of the party and even killed his old
companions, Khrushchev became an
auxiliary member of the Politburo and the
chief leader of the Ukraine. He himself
then began to do away, according to the
Stalinist method, with the old leaders of
the Ukrainian party, the companions of
Lenin: Kossior, Postychiev, Liubt-
chenko, and thousands of others.
Then, with the end of the Stalinist
purge, he worked his way into the
secretariat of the Central Committee.
Today, Khrushchev sheds tears over
the murder of the Ukrainian leaders and
especially over the memory of General
Yakir, about whom he was to say in his
speech of October 27, last:
“1 knew' Comrade Yakir well. During a
conference 1 gave this year in Alma-Ata,
his son who works in Kazakhstan came to
see me and asked me about his father.
But what could 1 tell him?”
What could he tell the son of General
Yakir? Well, perhaps remind him of
the speech which he, Khrushchev,
delivered at Kiev, on June 5, 1938, after
the extermination of the leaders of the
Ukrainian party:
"The Yakirs, the Balistskis, the
Liubtchenkos. the Zatonskies and other
such riffraff were getting ready to open
the door to the German Fascists and to
feudal and bourgeois elements.”
But one can well understand that it
was impossible for Khrushchev to say to
Yakir’s son that he. the denouncer of
Stalin’s crimes, had murdered and
slandered his father and many other
“eminent personalities” of the party and
State whom, because of the requirements
of present Soviet policy, he is now
endeavoring to rehabilitate.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Mr. CALWELL GOES TO WAR
HAVING forged a remarkable
alliance of interests during the
Federal election campaign last
year. “The Sydney Morning
Herald” and Mr Calwell have now
moved jointly into the West New
Guinea arena. The election campaign
was one thing, but promoting a war
over West New Guinea which could
involve this country against the whole
of Asia is another. Mr Calwell’s war-
like statements last week amount to
shameless political stunting, and he
must know it —in which case he is
playing a dangerous game for per-
sonal political gain. If he doesn't
know this and means what he says—
that this country should declare war
against Indonesia if it should attack
the Dutch in West New Guinea—then
he is being not only dangerous but
irresponsibly so.
Nor were his statements made any
less dangerous and irresponsible by
his subsequent denials. Mr Calwell’s
“clarification” is back-tracking and
does him no credit.
As Mr CalweT knows, valid criti-
cisms can be made of the Govern-
ment's attitude over the past ten years
to the growing West New Guinea crisis.
In the first place, it has had no firm
policy one way or the other. In the
second, it has shown signs of not want-
ing one. It is true that it has supported
Dutch sovereignty and approved Dutch
aims to bring West Papuans to self-
determination. But. in fact, it has never
given the Dutch the sort of support
that at any time enabled them to feel
they could rely on us or that they
could make their policy stick. The
Government adamantly refused to give
the Dutch military guarantees, and it
never implemented the most import-
ant aspects of the 1957 Dutch-
Australian Agreement which formed
a framework for the eventual develop-
ment of the two sides of the island into
a single political unit. Playing for
time (and maybe a change of luck), it
has always pursued an equivocal line
with Indonesia, which in the long run
has probably done us more harm than
good.
It might have pushed its case
harder w'ith Britain, the US. the UN
and the new African States.
It is understandable that the Leader
of the Opposition should feel piqued
that he was denied electoral victory by
a couple of seats last November. It
is right and proper that he should seek
to expose Government mistakes in an
attempt to force an election. But in his
attacks on the Government over its
West New Guinea policy he is flying
in the face of facts while gambling in
a reckless way with the country's
future.
Having said all that it is well to
remember —which Mr Calwell and
“The Sydney Morning Herald” find it
convenient to forget that the
obstacles in the way of formulating
and pursuing a firm, effective policy
from a position of weakness have
grown overwhelmingly difficult. The
greatest problem was not so much
Indonesian intansigence as the Asian
view of the Dutch as colonialist
aggressors. From this flowed the fact
that the Dutch simply had to vacate
Netherlands New Guinea as soon as
possible. Indeed their whole policy
has been directed to that end.
Self-determination was a proper
goal to aim for. but difficult to achieve
in a few years among 800.000 Papuans,
the majority of whom are extremely
primitive.
At best the Dutch hoped to create
an independent West Papuan Republic
which they and the whole world knew
would be economically unviable,
politically shaky and subject to Indo-
nesian and Asian hostility. Which
countries, if any. would underwrite
that proposition? Australia? Britain?
The United States? The United King-
dom has all but renounced its once
great interests in Asia, and America’s
attitude to the struggle was clearly
shown a fortnight ago when the US
refused air transit passage to Dutch
military replacements going to Hol-
landia. A refusal which breaks a long-
standing US promise of logistic aid to
the Dutch in West New Guinea in time
of crisis.
The most puzzling aspect of the
alliance between Mr Calwell and “The
Sydney Morning Herald" in this issue
is that neither is ill-informed. In his
own way Mr Calwell has been more
genuinely interested in the develop-
ment and political security of New
Guinea than most Parliamentarians.
“The Sydney Morning Herald.” more,
perhaps, than any other Australian
newspaper, has devoted a great deal of
space and thought over the past few
years to the problems of New Gui :u
and its future political, strategic and
social significance to Australia. Neither
can plead ignorance of the facts. Both
realise that Australia faces a hostile
Asia on this issue without benefit of
strong friends. Both conveniently
ignore the fact that the Dutch are
increasing efforts to find a speedy and
honorable way out. To advocate, how-
ever ambiguously, a policy of war may
serve vindictive or opportunist en ' ,
but not the real interests of Australia.
The Courtaulds Deal
IT is disturbing that the USSR
should play such a significant
role in the protracted battle over
the great Courtaulds textile con-
cern in the United Kingdom. The
affair took a dramatic turn last week
when the Soviet Union made an open
attempt to frustrate the Imperial
Chemical Industries’ ambitious take-
over bid. Three London news-
papers reported a Soviet otter to
Courtaulds involving an immediate
£8.75m. contract to set up a major arti-
ficial fibres plant in Latvia. Other
offers of aid are reported to have come
from Warsaw. Prague. Bucharest and
Belgrade.
The Soviet bloc’s and Yugoslavia's
interest in Courtaulds is not in itself
new. Consumer goods output in the


USSR and communist - controlled
Eastern Europe is inadequate and
must be supplemented by imports from
the West. This is part of the great
drive to raise living standards behind
the Iron Curtain, which infuriates
Peking so much.
On the other hand the USSR,
Poland, Czechoslovakia and Rumania
present an attractive market for an
important section of the British and
Western European manufacturing
industry. The United States has also
made several attempts to penetrate the
Soviet textile market, in the face of
bitter opposition from the Common
Market countries. America and Italy
are actively competing for the very
Latvian contract which is now
reported to have been firmly offered to
Courtaulds by the Soviet Techmashin-
import.
But the fact that the Soviet Union
—with three of its better-off-economi-
cally satellites —and Yugoslavia have
decided to enter the 1.C.1.-Courtaulds
tug-of-war so openly seems a bit
startling. Courtaulds has a long his-
tory of successful deals with the Iron
Curtain countries and Yugoslavia, but
the Kremlin's touching loyalty to an
old business associate is hardly the
point in question. It is much more
likely that the Soviets are concerned
about trade difficulties that may arise
if the 1.C.1. takeover bid is successful
—the giant international chemical
combine has been the subject of several
determined Soviet price-cutting attacks
over the past few years, particularly
in the vexed problem of marketing
paraffin wax. Moscow may feel that
if 1.C.1. finally takes over it may have
to be accommodated in the chemicals
field as a condition to continuing the
profitable textile deals. Moreover,
Moscow probably feels it will be easier
to trade with a weaker partner than
with the joint 1.C.1.-Courtaulds com-
bine.
Czechoslovakia, Poland and
Rumania are all vigorously de-
veloping their chemical and petro-
chemical industry, and to them 1.C.1.
is a dangerous competitor. Yugo-
slavia is in turn worried about the
effects of the 1.C.1.-Courtaulds pact
seen against the European Common
Market developments.
For the 1.C.1. itself control of
Courtaulds would mean the acquisition
of an excellent distribution network
and lucrative foreign markets outside
the European Economic Community.
Chemicals are getting more and more
closely linked with the manufacture of
artificial fibres, and the whole industry
is closely following the pattern of com-
petition in international oil business,
where control of the distribution out-
lets closest to the final consumer is
becoming the determining factor in
survival. Not the least disturbing fea-
ture of the affair, from an Australian
point of view, is that, whoever wins,
the USSR is likely to buy less wool and
to favor man-made fibres.
A Way Out
MR LAURIE SHORT was
recently quoted as saying that
communist influence through-
out Australian trade unions
could be destroyed within five years
provided there were determined
organisation and leadership by the
Labor party. Mugga’s discussion on
page four of the election in the Amal-
gamated Engineering Union (Aus-
tralia’s second-biggest union) raises the
same point. But the issue goes beyond
this: the essential point is that really
to defeat the communists the Labor
party must be prepared to endorse its
own candidates in union elections.
The old pre-1955 Industrial Groups,
endorsed by the Labor party, were, in
principle, a good idea. Up to the mid-
-1950s they were responsible for win-
ning such unions as the Federated
Ironworkers’ Association, the Feder-
ated Clerks’ Union and others from
Communist party control. But in the
faction fight which split Labor during
Dr Evatt’s tragic reign these groups
were dismantled. The arguments used
by both sides in the dispute simply
boiled down to two points. The mem-
bers of the Industrial Groups said
there should be some organisation
endorsed by the Labor party to work
against the Communist party’s
organisation in the trade unions. The
other faction argued that the Industrial
Groups were, in fact, controlled by
Mr B. A. Santamaria’s movement and
some of his members were only
interested in controlling the policy of
the Labor party. Both sides had points
in their favor.
Obviously it is a bad situation when
any group of people from outside a
political party can organise sufficiently
to direct or control the party’s affairs.
However, having stated that fact, it is
also necessary to see what is happen-
ing in trade unions at the present time.
In the recent election for the general
secretaryship of the Waterside
Workers’ Federation, Mr C. Fitz-
gibbon replaced the late Mr Jim Healy
because he was an ALP militant
“uncontaminated” by association with
the Democratic Labor party or Mr
Santamaria’s National Civic Council.
However, he could not have won with-
out the organisational support of the
National Civic Council. He knows
this and so do the members of the
Labor party who claim it as a “Labor”
victory. And so, too, does the Com-
munist party.
It is also likely that if the ALP man
should win the current Amalgamated
Engineering Union election this, too,
will be regarded as an ALP victory.
Unfortunately, it won’t be true. All
that Labor officials are doing is stand-
ing on the sidelines mutely barrack-
ing, while members of the National
Civic Council are working for the ALP
representative. But this situation will
not continue indefinitely. What is
obviously needed, as some members .of
the Labor party have gradually
realised, is for the ALP to set up some
form of organisation like the old
Industrial Groups. But this time 3
must be found to ensure that the con-
trol of them does not rest on any one
group —no matter how well intenrioned
they may be. If members of the Labor
party still salivate when Mr Santa-
maria’s organisation is mentioned,
while still being prepared to allow the
Communist party to control indirectly
their party, there is something radi-
cally wrong with their reflexes.


Feiffer
FOR MPAPS Tfiose UP OS /PHO
HAVt rocto i-M TH6 l/iMtPAPP c
Or SOPOP&AfJ CIVIL PbfEM SO
HAVP 6SUM CotiC6Rtiei? OU/TH
Th 6 PPO6L6M OF Had TO
MAWTAiM l. Aid AMP OPPSP
FOUO6M6 A MOCLSAR ASSAULT.
THP OIS C/TISS 0M&£? OF COUPSC.
06 A.MM'HILATBP, M&m
SIMPMRIM6 TH6IR PfVIT
P6F&MSS PPOBIOMS
IKMBASOPABOH. BOlMiveH,
Pee thosb of us ao suburbia
TH6PA ARC BOUND 10 Be
complication.
(,0£ tfoou? U SUBJECT Tc
MASS AMSiAUSHTS OF
f&puoees pram tho cipm.
WHil/ oue boasts , AS
AU HPARTS MUST 6'o OU r
TP THBSC VICTiMS TflW
OP POSH A THROAT to
OOP. CA6CFUUM PLArn)W
ftopam
tioiA) cAkiOMt reu a ?a v\o a ewe
Mog that Mw bJouu?u'T be ha m
M0v£ TOIM? 100, 10£ £AfO OtiM
vmtwE oue ijom of l ife 3 l <
0A0?£AP!lO<5 Oj£ STfte TS AMP
ReVtftCTli J6 AU M^MAUr
r<? rne fwk hi6h
(aJA% ; AfPlMiS Ttft'M PpcrAPS
COITH (MPRoVCl/ PP ECTlOtOM
36WS AMP f££6 ROAP MAPS.
m LJHfeU MAfJS bi)R S/IVAL IS AT
STAKE ffE’ ifJUL hV££tm£
10 THE IfOSTifUCTS. OOR
ftARRiCAi/ES MISrtT HAVE ID 6E
OBFWO'cV &-1 fORCt OF ARMS.
fc/Ui TI'ET AS L)E ARE
TO 00 VO IOOV TO USFSW OUR
TRtiVDV bO 105 SHAtt EE
w)IUfIJ6 W VOFcOV IOHATO
left OF IT 6v MAf)K)IfJ6 THE-
suevmv mziowcb {
'M stf6U£oAlO Ct\JlL
CTfeuse our motto 11
if wo cart oer
youe&of A ROSSI AkJ,
Str'Lt fOR. AW
AMCRICAfO.


FORUM
A WILD GLANCE
AT S A.'s ARTS INQUIRY
"The real problem is Sir Thomas "
By MAX HARRIS
'Y'HERE are the doers and there are the planners. There are those who
fill the bottles and those who put the labels on them. Those who
profess to adhere to the first category invariably find the labellers a creepy
race ; and in consequence the beavers who have produced the Arts Inquiry
Reports in South Australia and Victoria will probably find their selfless
efforts very unjustly demeaned. The compilation of the South Australian
report was put in the hands of Dr Brian Elliott of Adelaide University’s
English Department; and the result is 134 pages of verbal paddlings and
plashings with about as much truthful bellicosity in them as a bathtub
battleship.
HTo be fair, an official report from
a staid committee of inquiry
for inspection by Government agencies
has to be an elephant-picking-its-way-
through-the-daisies kind of job. It must
grieve no one, blame no one, annoy no
one. In short, it must point out every-
thing except what is crook in the regional
development and administration of the
arts.
Everyone knows what is the central
and pervasive problem of the arts in
South Australia . . . but this absolutely
number one problem does not rate a
mention in Dr Elliott's graceful meander-
ings. The problem: Sir Thomas Play-
ford. Despite his greatness as a poli-
tician, his total and impenitent philistin-
ism is as established and well known a
phenomenon as the Town Hall clock. At
the mention of the word “culture Sir
Thomas reaches for his orchard spray
gun. In the absence of a stadium it is
one of Adelaide’s prime entertainments
to observe the protracted warfare be-
tween the arts-conscious Sir Lloyd
Dumas wing of the Adelaide Club
Establishment and the Premier. From
the beginning to the end of the present
report the committee bleats about the
desirability of a Festival Hall without
pointing out the solitary factor that
stands in the way of its immediate
achievement. Although Adelaide is Aus-
tralia’s Festival of Arts city, Sir Thomas
will have nothing to do with spending
money on such a folderol, no matter how
much he is urged by the enlightened wing
of his own party.
In short, Sir Thomas’s distaste for the
arts is unequivocally thorough and
adamant. To imagine him attending an
art exhibition, or patronising an intelli-
gent play production is about as fan-
tastic as Sabrina joining the Girl
Guides. And since Sir Thomas exercises
dictatorial powers in the economics of
the State, he is the regional problem in
the arts.
He is a shrewd and progressive
administrator, his contribution to State
prosperity is immeasurable, and he is
entitled to his blind spot. It’s a pity
that he has one, but there you are. But
a report which totally ignores the
relationship of government to the arts
is obviously not going to be worth a
bumper. Apart from its historical sur-
veys of the various arts (largely derived
from the special festival issue of “Aus-
tralian Letters,” which I help edit, and
sometimes acknowledged, but mostly not),
what “occasional value judgments” were
admitted to the South Australian report?
Read on:
Literature
Couth Australia has an unduly large
tribe of writers. They all seem, with
the exception of the irrepressible H. A.
Lindsay, a writer of library fiction, well
content with their lot. (Mr Lindsay wants
legislation to force Australian periodi-
cals to publish 50 per cent, of their
fiction from Australian authorship. Long
live liberty!) All the report can suggest
for writers is that it would be nice if they
had their own club rooms. Goody,
goody.
It also ventures to criticise “The
Advertiser’’ literary page. “The Adver-
tiser" literary page is nothing to write
home about compared with the standards
of “The Age.” Reviewing is a staff
perk ; the tone of the page is facile. It is
a pity it can't be a red-hot model of
what Sunday journalism ought to be ;
but “The Advertiser” should be allowed
its parochial literary frailties, because it
does offer monumental service to the
community in the public sponsorship of
the arts.
Libraries
'T'his is the only chapter of the report
which packs an honest punch. In
the library sense. South Australia is the
most backward State in the Common-
wealth. The Public Library system is
extremely well managed and a model of
institutional integrity, but pathetically
under-financed and atrociously housed.
It is the absence of the municipal free-
library system, supported by rate money,
which makes South Australia unique.
The country reader has access to books
only through the senile and twitching
system of the subscription libraries
administered through the (Mechanics’)
Institute Association. If the SA country
reader is not content with the monthly
box of cowboy and romance novels
despatched from the Big Smoke, then
he has to lump it. The report is far
ruder about this system than I could be.
Booksellers and Publishing
Adelaide has enough bookshops,
including one magnificently vital
establishment. And with Rigby Ltd
plunging head on into general publishing,
and the printing calibre of Griffith Press,
South Australia can’t grizzle about lack
of outlets in relation to its size.
The Fine Arts
South Australia is going through its
dog days in painting and the fine
arts. In the early days of the Con-
temporary Art Society South Australia
had its blazing moments of advant garde
glory, but since then there has been a


steady decline into artistic moribundity.
Regionalism is both likely and desirable
in literature, or even in branches of
academic thought: but painters tend to
have to go where the money is. There-
fore, major painting exists only in Mel-
bourne and Sydney. Could one legiti-
mately talk about a Brisbane, Perth or
Adelaide painting school? The dedi-
cated as against the amateur artist more-
or-less has to migrate to the bigger
metropolis. Therefore the committee had
very little to say about the state of paint-
ing. A nice clubroom won’t turn minor
painting into major painting. Financial
subsidies won't breed one genuine
Picasso at the local art school. And
since the Adelaide National Gallery is in
sound shape, and the Bonython Gallery
brings local artists into touch with
everything going on in the larger national
arena, the committee was struck dumb
on this theme.
Music
ith an almost bewildered air, Dr
” Elliott reports a "trickle of financial
support from official coffers'’ for music.
Playford contributes £12,000 per >ear
towards the Symphony Orchestra. Be-
cause it is the best medium for
society matrons to display them-
selves, the concert life of the
town is patronised as the favorite
arts charity of them all. Music will
always thrive and flourish in the pro-
vinces so long as society public relations
work is at a high peak. If the Adelaide
Symphony Orchestra employed a public
relations consultant music could abso-
lutely mint profit during the season. This
practical suggestion was completely
overlooked by the inquiry committee.
Architecture
Couth Australia has only one indigen-
ous interest for the rest of Australia
in the matter of architecture: that is, its
colonial bluestone homes and white-
washed colonial cottages. This is quite
different from the terraced architecture
of Sydney and Melbourne ... a lot of it
is early and beautifully preserved.
Adelaide also has a high survival rate
amongst colonial inns (vide Maguire's
"Inns of Australia"). South Australia's
colonialism is something worth preserv-
ing for the sake of the nation as a
whole.
Let us, therefore, examine the National
Trust of SA. It has no priviliges,
no grants from any source. In short, it
has no dough. It exists to accept be-
quests from such people who care to
make them. However, the thankless and
hopeless work undertaken by the noble
souls who constitute the National Trust
must all be made worthwhile by what
Dr Elliott describes as a “benevolent
Government interest.” How interested
can you get!
Drama
'"The drama section of the report is
meaty, energetic and full of burning-
white hope. All the drama boys want is
an adequate Arts Centre with a decent
big theatre; a semi-professional or
“hybrid” theatre organisation subsidised
from community funds ; and a co-
ordinating SA Arts Council!!
In all the scuffling, panting and hoping
for public funds and patronage that
goes on, I fee! most sympathy for theatre
people in South Australia. This is be-
cause amateur theatre is so busy and
alive and eager-beaver. Because amateur
theatre isn't a background theme to bad
professional theatre, as it is in the
eastern States, South Australia has
higher standards, greater courage and a
more defiant intellectualism than is easily
found in Sydney and Melbourne.
Remote from the debilitating influence
of the Elizabethan Theatre Trust.
Adelaide is ripe for a mature semi-
professional theatre which w'ould act as
an out-of-town testing ground for the
developing idiom of the Australian play.
But it's all an impossible dream.
(Kindly reread the first section of this
article.) The best that can be hoped for
from the SA Government is a king-sized
Boy Scout's tent pitched in the railway
yards for a small rental.
Adult Education
V\7hat has adult education to do with
the arts? A good question, as
John Betjeman insists on saying. Like
you, 1 thought adult education had to
do with education, but since a vast slab
of the report has to do with it. 1 thought
I'd better mention it. I suppose the Cake
Decorating courses at Port Pirie and
Oakbank come into the field of the
applied arts . . . and at Renmark you
can do a course in Recorded Music. Mt
Gambier is the home of Invalid Cookery
as an art, and for artistic males there’s
a mysterious course entitled Boiler
Attendance.
Sundries
fAuR report on the arts tails off into
some themes which seem startlingly
unrelated to one's old-fashioned idea of
the arts. One learns that the Gemmo-
logical Association is flourishing, and
that the membership of the Instrument
Technology Society has now reached
100, and that the Underwater Research
Group has an eager waiting list. Either
I'm dumb or Professor Horne (chair-
man) and the Arts Committee went off
their collective chump in compiling this
study. I can understand them branch-
ing off into an examination of the
Barossa’s glorious vintage reds . . . but
underwater research! Crumbs!
An Even More Sundry Sundry
nPHE grand finale of our prodigious
A report consists of 57 words and a
literal on the subject of the mass media:
radio, television, film, the Press. In my
opinion Saturday night should get more
than sundry mourning. The committee
adopted the view that there is no regional
artistic significance in those very media
which influence most of the people most
of the time.
This is the kind of snobby error which
puts one off the committee do-gooders
in the arts field. The Gemmological
Association and a course in boiler
attending are grist to their mill . . . but
they do not propose to concern them-
selves with the gritty task of infusing a
few aesthetic standards into the corrupted
but all-important mass media. A grass-
roots medium, like television, determines
taste and standards throughout the whole
basic structure of contemporary societies.
The committee would have done a great
service to the community if they had
condescended to befoul their lilywhites
and examined the cultural manure of the
State. But the report explicitly states
that there is no significant regional
activity in these media. Poppycock!
Quaintly enough, the television
channels are busting to produce work at
a Third Programme level. They may lack
finance and resources, but they are in
hot pursuit of ideas, of constructive
criticism of their regional standards.
How much classical music is played on
ABC television? Has the ABC docu-
mentary television on South Australian
arts been satisfactory? Is South Aus-
tralian radio drama in a healthy condi-
tion?
If these themes are not the business
of an arts inquiry committee, then it's
me for the boiler attending course.
VAXt may have gathered that your
A present critic is not sympathetic to
the cloistered survey. Before you con-
demn this intolerance out of hand, think
of the special circumstances of South
Australia. It is not a community where
enlightened authorities wait expectantly
for expert advice and fact-finding.
Rather it is the ding-dong and the stoush
all the time. The protagonists of cul-
tural life have to be out to make things
hot ; often to battle against the good-
will and bad judgments of the festival
tycoons ; to stick the neck into close
vicinity of ihe chopper whenever censor-
ship is threatened ; when a beautiful
colonial cottage makes way for a revolt-
ing service station ; w'hen the Theatre
Royal is sold down the river; when
Ern Malley is rebanned ; when
Patrick White is described as an unknown
writer. We can use the amiable energies
of Professor Horne and his cobbers.
But not for writing ruddy reports.


LETTERS
THE RED AND THE BLACK
Sir,
It is interesting to place the smug
opinions of your correspondents George
Cook and M. E. Langford beside the
facts. For instance, Mr Cook writes
(Bulletin, February 3): “Regarding
Queensland’s Native Affairs laws, these
are designed to protect the aborigines
against predatory Europeans and bogus
marriages. Some sections no longer
required could well be repealed, but these
laws are not designed to be repressive.”
The following quotations are from
the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights and the Aborigines Preservation
and Protection Act. I would remind all
interested persons that this Act affects
26,278 people (DNA, 30/6/61), and—
although it’s wickedly revolutionary of
me to say so —these figures represent
human beings.
The Act states: “The Director may
. . . cause any aboriginal, save and
except an aboriginal to whom this section
does not apply, to be removed from any
district to a reserve and kept there for
such time as may be ordered by the
Director . . . Any order issued by the
Director for the removal of an aborigi-
nal to a reserve or from one reserve to
another reserve shall be sufficient
authority for any protector, or any
officer of police to arrest such aboriginal
and to remove him to the reserve
named . . .”
The Declaration states that: “Every-
one has the right to freedom of move-
ment and residence within the borders of
each State.” (Article 13.)
Quoting the Act again, it states that:
“The protector shall undertake the pro-
tection and management of the property
of all aboriginals in the district assigned
to him and may—subject to the approval
of the Director —take possession of,
retain, sell or dispose of any property
of an aboriginal whether real or per-
sonal . . . The protector or superin-
tendent, with the approval of the Direc-
tor, may order that any letters or mail
matter addressed to or written by
aboriginals of the reserve, settlement or
mission reserve over which he has con-
trol, shall be delivered to him . . . and
may at his discretion be opened by him
and perused . . Every aboriginal who
disobeys an order of the protector or
superintendent to cease dancing and/or
other native practices shall be guilty of
an offence. A protector or superin-
tendent shall have power to prohibit, in
writing, the playing of any game . . .
any person found guilty of playing any
such game shall be guilty of an offence.”
On the other hand the Declaration
says: “No one shall be subjected to
arbitrary interference with his privacy,
family, home or correspondence . . .”
(Article 12.)
It reads very much like subjecting
them to predatory Europeans, Mr Cook.
How educational it would be for cer-
tain self-righteous people to have to live
under this benign Act on the idyllic
missions and settlements they boast
about.
R. HALL
Brisbane
SIDNEY NOLAN
Sir,
When I read the article on William
Dobell (Bulletin, October 28) I did
not believe that human discourse could
sink into such adipose servility. It was
one long unperceptive puff, with no
attempt at critical reference. Mr
Hesling’s article on Nolan further
revealed why: he is incapable of criti-
cism.
Nolan’s paintings will, I suspect, sur-
vive his onslaught. Nolan’s contribution
towards the present vitality of Australian
art is incalculable. His recent work has
certainly declined ; but in 11 years,
between 1939 and 1951, he did more to
assert a true image of this country’s
landscape and myth than any painter
except Drysdale.
ROBERT HUGHES
Sydney
FIDO
Sir,
Permit me a comment upon Mr
Alexander’s letter in your issue of
January 27 on FIDO.
Firstly, let me assure Mr Alexander
that FIDO is not a “southern Australian
people’s” organisation. It is a non-party
political Federal organisation, open to
all interested in the development of
northern and inland Australia, from
Broken Hill and Alice Springs to Darwin.
The mayor of Darwin and four other
Territorians are on the committee, and
Queensland and western New South
Wales are well represented. The organisa-
tion has the backing of the AWGC, the
NFU and their member organisations
and is well known to all political parties.
His opposition to the Pioneers’ High-
way and his reasons, therefore, are based
upon traditional Queensland political
thinking and are, as readers will have
noted, entirely opposed to the Federal
Constitution, Section 92.
At least the deplorable seasonal disad-
vantages of the Queensland meatworks
cannot be attributed to any cause outside
Queensland. Lack of transport south
from the Channel country accounts for
100,000 head of cattle per year which
the crows eat, and over 200,000 per year
travel south from Rockhampton alive to
be killed elsewhere.
What is wrong with the Queensland
meat industry? Mr Alexander’s sugges-
tion that the Brigalow Belt is a “red
herring’ thought up by FIDO is ridicu-
lous. It is the Queensland Government’s
No. 1 priority, together with pasture
improvement in near-coastal areas, and
it will undoubtedly be the solution to
all-the-year-round killing at coastal meat-
works.
The Channel country is no more
unreliable than most of Australia’s inland
and more fertile. The losses there are a
direct result of lack of transport.
When the Pioneers’ Highway is built,
with roads east to Queensland railheads
(the Channel Beef Roads) the Bureau of
Agricultural Economics estimates that
the SW Queensland output will rise
from 65,000 per year to 290,000 per
year, most of which stock will be killed
on the Queensland coast.
The Federal Inland Development
Organisation does not believe in the
Brisbane Line ’ defeatist attitude
towards northern development. The
Pioneers’ Highway is a strategic defence
and development route from Australia’s
north to Australia’s south, and anyone
suggesting that FIDO is insincere is
misinformed and un-Australian in their
thinking.
BEWEWRON P. P. LEWIS
President of Federal Inland
Development Organisation (FIDO)
Gilgandra (NSW)
Sir,
Mr B. D. Alexander (Bulletin,
January 27), writing from Wellington
(NZ), shows a lamentable lack of
knowledge of the true facts of Northern
Australian development. It would be
interesting to know if he has ever been
in Australia, and, more particularly, in
West Queensland.
He seems to see in the Pioneers' High-
way merely a pipe to drain the wealth
of Queensland to the south, whereas, in
fact, it forms an important and neces-
sary part of an integrated road system,
without which none of the proposed
beef roads is of much use. That road
system would take more wealth into
Queensland than it would take out.
The issues become confused by people
like Mr Alexander. He seems to be
arguing from the Queensland point of
view. The cattle, industry needs more
competitive markets. If there was a
southern competitive market the price of
meat should rise, to the advantage of the
local producer. The Queensland eastern
outlets would be there, and if the dist-
ances to them are so much closer, as he
says, then the trade would naturally flow
there.
To infer that the Brigalow country
cannot be developed to a point that
would increase productivity many times
over shows lack of understanding and
knowledge. The Brigalow country can
be developed and the productivity
quadrupled when and if the Government
gives security of tenure.
This question of tenure is probably


the basic reason for Queensland’s back-
wardness, and is no doubt the greatest
surge needed today. Moreover, it
accounts for it lagging behind the rest
of the States. If development had not
been retarded by the terminable lease
system the roads would have been built
long ago. Mr Alexander should under-
stand that there is no special benefit to
any State to own undeveloped land. It
is the productivity that counts, not the
land. Again. iVlr Alexander seems to be
concerned with the problems of trade and
population in Sydney. New South Wales
and Victoria have only developed to
what they are because they have used
their talents comparatively well. I per-
sonally don't think their natural advant-
ages are greater than those of Queens-
land. However, New South Wales and
Victoria had this great start —their
Governments gave security of tenure and
then encouraged secondary industry,
which built up population.
Queensland, on the other hand, dis-
couraged secondary industry by higher
taxes than anywhere else. Having regard
to this, it is foolish for Queenslanders
to say NSW is now trying to steal its
wealth! Queensland cannot reap the
benefits from its own lands until they
are developed. Mr Alexander is quite
right about the Mt Isa railway, but here,
again, whose fault is that?
Finally, Mr Alexander says that the
members of FIDO can be accused of
insincerity and narrow-mindedness in
their approach. On the contrary, none
of its members has anything to gain
personally, and surely it is not narrow-
minded to develop our country.
CHARLES RUSSELL
Dolby ( Queensland )
A BIASED CORRESPONDENT?
Sir,
The Bulletin is a paper with a wide
and varied circulation, and it is disturb-
ing to see the one-sided view it takes
on Queensland affairs.
Almost weekly its Brisbane corres-
pondent, Mr John Higgins, is provided
with space for synthetic sneers at the
Government in some form or another.
I can forgive his attacks on transport
matters because he is the Public Rela-
tions Officer for the Country Road
Transport Association. On a statement
by Mr Higgins this body is working for
the downfall of the present Govern-
ment (“Country Life,” January 25,
1962).
As a country newspaper editor, in the
break-up of the Labor party in 1957
Mr Higgins was a strong supporter of
the present Leader of the Opposition.
Is it the fear of giving the present
Government credit for the major works
it has initiated in this State that prevents
him commenting on such things as edu-
cation, oil search, securing an oil
refinery, sea transport of beef in North
Australia, Central Queensland coal, the
Mount Isa railway, the Weipa bauxite,
the beef roads, planned power-houses,
etc.; or is it that he is still very much
the Duggan supporter and prefers to
“deny and decry” in the fashion of the
present Labor leaders throughout Aus-
tralia?
KEITH W. HOOPER, MLA
Parliament House, Brisbane
A WORD FOR PORTUGAL
Sir,
As one who has paid two visits to
Portuguese Timor within the last two
years, I most heartily endorse the
opinions expressed by Bernard J.
Callinan (Bulletin, December 16) in
opposition to K. Willey’s article “The
Coming Disaster.”
I can confirm the statement that
recently an Angolan was acting as Chief
Justice of Timor, as I had the privilege
of meeting him. Similarly, I observed
that important posts in the Civil Service
were occupied by natives of Goa and
Macao, as well as by Timorese them-
selves. This reflects the traditional
policy of Portugal that the native of any
province, irrespective of his color, has
full rights of citizenship, and conse-
quently of a career in the Public Service.
During my recent visits to Portuguese
Timor I saw plenty of apparently
healthy and well-fed Timorese, and must
reject entirely Willey’s dismal impression
that natives were living in utter poverty.
Equally inaccurate is his statement that
there is only one motor vehicle on the
island.
B. J. Callinan can speak with authority
on the good relations which existed be-
tween Australian troops and Portuguese
administrators in Timor during the last
war. I can testify to the present friend-
liness of Portuguese and Timorese to
Australian visitors.
It is surely of advantage to Australia
to preserve such amity with Portugal,
whose province of Timor is within two
hours’ flying of Darwin and whose native
population is manifestly loyal to
Portugal.
G. O. REID, MLA
Parliament House ( Melbourne )
WHAT’S WRONG WITH WATTS
Sir,
If I am in ignorance of what G. S.
Watts is pleased to call his “philo-
sophical position” (Bulletin, February
3), it is his fault for failing to enunciate
anything of a positive and constructive
nature.
I recall that when Mr Watts champ-
ioned his pet theme, “the traditional
proofs of theism are in ruins,” in a debate
with Dr A. M. Woodbury at the WEA
Hall, Phillip St, he jibbed at the universal
validity of the principle of contradiction.
He may cry out vehemently that I am
misrepresenting him, that his position is
being distorted, that he never formally
or openly or categorically denied this
fundamental principle. But the fact
remains that he indignantly refused to
affirm it and thereby crossed over the
frontier closed to those two cruel
persecutors —logic and commonsense.
Sometimes though, Mr Watts’s position
bears resemblance to the Gnostics of the
2nd cent. AD. The Gnostics claimed a
special knowledge—in Mr Watts's case
it’s “philosophical criticism'’ —which
they used to dissolve away all that is
definite and distinctive in Christianity.
Then again his position could be that of
a member of the Henry Fordian “history
is bunk” school for Mr Watts quite
unashamedly announces that “Christi-
anity is the product of the mingling of
various movements —Judaism, Greek
philosophy, and the Mystery o- Sacra-
mental Religions of the Graeco-Roman
world” (WEA Handbook of Courses,
1960, p. 34). Which is certainly not
history!
A. P. NEGUS
Ryde (NSW)
WHAT’S WRONG WITH WRITERS
Sir,
For Marien Dreyer’s information,
(Bulletin, February 3) I was able to
pry the results of the Coffs Harbor Play-
writing Competition from its organisers.
Mind you, it wasn't easily accomplished,
and took three months, several letters,
and SAEs.
First —“The Hobby Horse” by Robert
Wales; Second —“The Intruder” by
Dorothy Cubis ; Aeq. Third—“ Eight
o‘Clock in the Morning” by A. E. Warfe,
and “Summer Solstice” by me. (For Reid
Douglas's benefit, this last is a measly
affair of five characters and one set).


Name
your Scotch . ..
,;^§3
SCOTCH
THERE’S NONE FINER!
N2L912
BY APPOINTMENT
TO HER MAJESTY
QUEEN ELIZABETH II
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS
WM. SANDERSON & SON LTD.
As the author, then, of an unproduced
play, I quite agree with Mr Douglas that
most unproduced plays are terrible ; but
add—terribly embryonic. Many of the
terrible ones I’ve read need plenty of
re-writing round what is often a good
idea. And we writers need the encourage-
ment and education to do it.
So I agree, too, with Marien Dreyer. 1
suggest that all is not gold that glitters
from the tongues and pens of these
alleged enthusiasts for Australian plays,
because it is fashionable for producers,
etc., to profess great interest in them.
Have you ever heard one say, honestly.
“No, I’m only interested in making
money ; Australian plays don't interest
me at all”?
We Australians are still sufficiently
adolescent of mind to be suckers for
flattery: we love people who like us, or
any part of us. Even if we don't care for
theatre, it gives us a vicarious intellectual
lift to hear someone praise anything of
ours. When we are able to bask in any
kind of reflected glory, we are kind to its
donor. If he happens to be a producer
or actor, well, we'll be more inclined to
see his plays, because he’s a good fellow.
So it’s good PR to profess to such an
interest, and if a producer is then deluged
with scripts, he can keep them a while,
and then send them back. No harm done.
I write from my own experiences. 1
know: one professional producer, volubly
enthusiastic on TV, who admitted priva-
tely to holding ten or twelve scripts for
over three months and not knowing
when he could even look at them ; an
amateur producer who returned a script
on exasperated demand, entirely without
comment —unread? ; organisations which
allege to read in two weeks, but take
even more months —when reading is part
of their job ; decisions promised in one
week that are still not made after four
months. It was also suggested to me that
1 have no chance of selling a play from
here, behind the Black Stump, that I
have to be on the spot and peddle like
a super-saleswoman. For a woman, it
suggests interesting possibilities.
So I support Susie Comans in being
thankful for Eunice Hanger and Mr
Sirovs for their honest encouragement
and enthusiasm. 1 add the Playwright’s
Workshop of the Brisbane Writers’ Guild,
too.
That these are on an academic and
amateur basis rather than a professional
one may ultimately be in the best interests
of Australian playwriting, because pro-
fessionals cannot afford to experiment.
These certainly make up for any pro-
fessional deficiency with their honesty
and sincerity in encouraging “ground-
floor” work, w'hich is the only way any
good plays will be accomplished.
We are interested, even here, in the
UNESCO conference on Australian
playw'riting which I believe is to be held
in Adelaide during the Festival. What a
splendid opportunity for more profes-
sional hot air!
HELEN HAENKE
East Ipswich (Queensland)


CORRESPONDENCE FROM A
WOULD-BE CORRESPONDENT
Every editor spends a good deal of
time handling not only the stuff
that gets into the paper and the
stuff that shouldn’t have got into
the paper but writing to would-be contri-
butors about what might go into the
paper. Some people find that their
literary talents run out after the pre-
liminary letters have been exchanged. To
those many would-be correspondents
whose efforts and energies are expended
in correspondence, this piece is lovingly
dedicated.
A typical exchange between editor and
correspondent might be something like
this:
The Editor,
“Pulse”
Sir,
1 am at present engaged on a three-
volume work, to be published with the
assistance of the Commonwealth Literary
Fund, entitled “Joseph Blow, the Man
and the Poet: A Reappraisal.” Would
you be interested in a series of articles,
entitled “Joseph Blow, the Man and the
Poet: A Reappraisal”?
Joseph Blow, Junior
To this a reply, neatly stereotyped, goes
out:
We are happy to receive contribu-
tions at any time. Please type on one
side of the paper only and enclose a
stamped, addressed envelope for return
of contribution, if unsuitable.
The Editor, “Pulse”
After that, the correspondence might
follow this pattern:
The Editor,
“Pulse”
Sir,
I have received your letter. However,
I would like your assurance that you
are interested in a series of articles,
entitled “Joseph Blow, the Man and the
Poet: A Reappraisal” before I embark
on this project. After all, I am engaged
on a major work for the Commonwealth
Literary Fund. I cannot have my time
wasted in other ways.
Joseph Blow, Junior
Mr J. Blow, Junior,
Sir,
If you were a regular reader of our
magazine you might have noticed that we
have just run a series of articles, “Joseph
Blow, the Poet and the Man: A
Reappraisal,” by Professor Homer T.
Homer of the University of South
Wyoming. However, if you feel you have
any really new material on this out-
standing Australian writer, we would be
pleased to discuss the matter further with
you. However, Professor Homer’s series
tended to show that while your father
must be regarded as a major literary
figure, his exemplary private life —so
regrettably rare among poets —does not
make further study particularly reward-
ing.
The Editor, “Pulse”
The Editor,
“Pulse”
Sir,
I am sending you, under separate
cover, in plain wrapper, photostat
copies of documents relating to the
private life of Joseph Blow, also photo-
stat copies of some hitherto unpublished
poems.
Joseph Blow, Junior
Joseph Blow, Junior
Dear Joseph Blow,
I was astonished but delighted to
receive the photostat copies of docu-
ments. As a lover of literature, 1 may
say these have given me some stimula-
ting hours. I had no idea that this
material existed. It certainly throws new
light on the subject.
Of course, the series “Joseph Blow,
the Man: A Reappraisal” would have to
be carefully handled. The material
shows that your father had a breadth of
experience and a love of life which were
quite exceptional. Could you have a
glass of claret with me at “Ye Olde
Rusty” one day this week and we can
discuss this series. Do you have a good
lawyer?
The Editor, “Pulse 5 '
The Editor,
“Pulse”
Dear George,
Since our talk, when you outlined
the lines which you thought the
series “Joseph Blow, the Man: A
Reappraisal” should take, I have been
giving the matter more thought. I feel
there is still a good deal of ground which
has not been covered in discussing my
father as a poet. For example, little has
been said of the influence of Walt
Whitman and Beatrix Potter. Little has
been written of his experiments with an
elastic Alexandrine. I think I would feel


happier on the whole if 1 did a series of
articles on “Joseph Blow, the Poet: A
Reappraisal,” and left out all personal
material. My dear mother is still alive,
and I wouldn’t want to cause her any
distress.
Joe
Joseph Blow. Junior
Dear Joe,
1 appreciate the point about your
having had a mother. However, I feel
that if we are to run another series of
articles on your father, all new material
should be available After all, there is
such a thing as intellectual honesty.
George
The Editor,
“Pulse”
Dear George,
1 shall be guided by you in this matter.
However, ] thought we could now take
up the question of payment.
Joe
Joseph Blow, Junior
Dear Mr Blow,
Our usual rate is a guinea per thous-
and. or a free copy of the magazine,
signed by the editor. Many of our con-
tributors are university people, who, of
course, don't require payment. How-
ever, we are prepared to pay you, and
could, in fact, make a special rate for
you. However, as you are receiving a
grant from the Commonwealth Literary
Fund, we assume money is not a vital
factor. Meanwhile, we are expecting the
first instalment of “Joseph Blow, the
Man: A Reappraisal'’ within the next
day or so.
The Managing Editor, “Pulse”
The Managing Editor,
“Pulse”
Sir,
Thank you for your letter, re payment.
1 happened to meet the editor of the
“Daily Splurge'’ and happened to show
him photostat copies of the material I
showed you. He suggests £20,000 as a
reasonable figure for first Australian
rights.
Joseph Blow, Junior
Joseph Blow. Junior,
Dear Joe,
I feel a great deal of distress that you
should have opened negotiations with
another section of the Press while you
were discussing the matter with us. After
all, we were prepared to fix a special
rate. Are you honestly, interested in
your father’s reputation as a poet? Or
are you just peddling filth?
George
The Editor,
“Pulse”
Dear George,
I’m afraid £20,000 is too much to pass
up. However, if you still want a series of
articles on “Joseph Blow: How great
was the influence of Walt Whitman and
Beatrix Potter?” or “Joseph Blow: An
analysis of his experiments with the
elastic Alexandrine” I'd be quite happy to
do them. It would make up to you for
selling the other stuff to the “Daily
Splurge’ Let me know [’ll be at the
Hotel Splendide. Surfers’ Paradise, for the
next few months.
Joe
Memo to Editor, from the Managing
Editor:
Following the conviction and sentence
of the editor of the “Daily Splurge” and
Joseph Blow, Junior, for publication of
obscene libel, I suggest we have a series
of articles entitled “The Commonwealth
Literary Fund: A Reappraisal.”
“Pipe down!"




SOCIAL CUMBER’S SAXES AND LADDERS
gNAKES and ladders is an old favorite among games, but it still has its fascinations.
The same might be said of social-climbing. Any number of people tan play. You just
need the board, provided by Tanner, a box and dice. Watch every move on the board.
T * botogiaphed at races. Photograph appears in afternoon paper. Up to 4,
I hotogiaphed at art show. Photograph does not appear. Stay where you are.
3. Husband becomes junior executive, Amalgamated Takeovers. Up to 6.
4. Photographed at races. Photograph in morning paper. Up to 35.
5. Husband appointed sales manager, Amalgamated Takeovers. Up to 11.
6. Lunch at Plunders. Photographed with back to camera. Stay where you are.
7. Luncheon at harborside home to discuss new committee. Fall into pool. Stay where
you are. - ;
8. Lunch at Plunders with wife of general manager of Amalgamated Takeovers Stay
where you are. ’
9. In bed with indigestion. Stay where you are.
10. Start shopping around for new house. Up to 12.
11. Sore feet. Up to nothing.
12. Lunch at Plunders with wife of managing director of Amalgamated Takeovers.
Stay where you ate.
13. Husband invited to become general manager, Amalgamated Takeovers. Up to 20.
14. Invited to join Black and Blue committee. LTp to 43.
15. Buy new house at back of North Shore. Stay where you are.
16. Invited to join Feckless Follies committee. Down to 4.
17. Lunch at Plunders with wife of chairman of directors of Amalgamated Takeovers.
Stay where you are.
18. Buy a brace of early Nolans. Up to 29.
19. Send daughter to school in Switzerland. Up to 23.
20. Buy Porsche. Down to 12.
21. Husband invited to become managing director, Amalgamated Takeovers. Up to 37.
22. Children's party at new house. Child drowns in pool. Down to 16.
23. Former managing director shoots himself. Stay where you are.
24. Invited to open art show. Accept. Stay where you are.
25. Buy property at Bowral. Up to 35.
26. Asked to speak at Garden Club. Stay where you are.
27. Decline to be photographed at Plunders. Up to 42.
28. Flusband tossed by bull at Bowral. Down to 8.
29. Give luncheon party to form new committee. You are voted president. Surprise.
30. You and husband win prize at Feckless Follies fancy dress ball. Down to 4.
31. Organise drag hunt at Bowral property. Fall oh horse. Down to 15.
32- Open Bowral house to public for charity. Miss a turn.
33. Invited to do can-can at amateur revue of Black and Blue committee. Up to 34.
34. Slip disc day before can-can performance. Down to 17.
35. Decline to be photographed at art show. Stay where you are.
36. Husband leaves suddenly for US. Stay where you are.
37. Decline to open Bowral house for charity, tip to 45.
38. Decline to be photographed at races. Up to 44.
39. Husband extradicted, charged with fraudulent conversion and jailed for 20 years.
Stay where you are.
40. Shop around for new husband. Up to 41.
41. Find new husband. Up to 43.
42. Decline to open art show. Up to 45.
43. Photographed unawares at races. Photo in afternoon paper. Down to 23.
44. Resign from Black and Blue committee to head committee to welcome visiting
Royalty (British) . You have one-upped everyone.
45. Invited to join committee to welcome visiting Royalty (foreign) . Down to 2-
46. Sell North Shore house and buy harborside home unit. Stay where you are.
47. Invited to judge Miss Australia contest. Down to 22.
48. Snub Mrs Marcel Dekyvere. You are HOME.


Continuing our senes on the early Governors
GOVERNOR BOURKE
The Twilight of Autocracy
SIR RICHARD BOURKE
By M. H. ELLIS
Sir Richard Bourke may be said to
be the first Governor of NSW
whose career belonged almost
wholly to the nineteenth century.
He marked, too, another step in the
social status of Governors of Australian
colonies, towards that pinnacle on which
lords were preferred for major posts.
He was the first vice-regal personage
who, by the standards of his time, was
indubitably an aristocrat. He belonged
to the same family as Edmund Burke,
despite the different spelling of his name,
being descended from one of the Nor-
man entourage which went with King
John to Ireland in the thirteenth century.
Lord Clanncarde is the senior member
of the family. He himself came very
strongly under the influence of Edmund
Burke, spent his school vacations with
him at Beaconsfield while he was at
Westminster School and at Oriel College
in Oxford and was one of the witnesses
to Burke’s will.
In his early manhood, cultivated, able,
a member of the English Bar, he inherited
the family estate at Thornfield, County
Limerick, down among the leprechauns,
probably without anticipation that he
would become the first Irishman, the first
public-school boy. the first member of
the Bar, the first graduate of one of the
ancient English universities and f he first
Guards officer to govern an Australian
colony.
He joined the Army in the heady year
of the Battle of the Nile and soon had
reason to wish he hadn’t. He served in
Holland on the Helder, had a gallant
record in four or five actions and came
home with both jaws smashed by wounds
of which the scars were never obliterated.
Unfit for active service, he was in
charge of some classes at Marlow Mili-
tary College for a time and served with
garrison troops, but in 1806 was sent off
with Beresford’s River Plate expedition
as senior officer of the QMG’s Depart-
ment. He later became Quartermaster-
General to Whitelocke’s ill-fated army.
He had the unpleasant job of helping
to wreck that weak and hapless general
as a witness at his court-martial after the
disastrous failure of the attempt to take
Buenos Aires.
He was still only a captain, but became
a major in his thirtieth year, went early
to the Peninsula where Wellington was
impressed by him, used him as a liaison
officer with allied commanders, promoted
him to be colonel towards the end of
the war and saw that he had a CB
among the victory honors.
Waterloo put him on the half-pay list
at 37 and there he sat until time and
seniority made him a major-general in
a world without wars in 1821.
He lived the life of a county gentle-
man, coming up to London for the
season until, in 1825, just as Brisbane was
getting ready to leave NSW, he was
sent to South Africa a Lieutenant-
Governor of the eastern district of the
Cape of Good Hope to act as Governor
while Lord Charles Somerset came home
to answer charges of inefficiency. in
that year he had pleaded the cause of the
Irish peasants before a committee of the
House of Lords.
TIE governed the Cape until Welling-
ton’s old friend Lowry Cole suc-
ceeded him towards the end of 1828. He
had been a conspicuous success. He had
seen John Wylde, Judge Advocate of
NSW in Macquarie’s day, appointed
Chief Justice under a new Charter of
Justice. He had caused a storm by alter-
ing the law to allow Kaffirs to enter and
move freely in the Cape territory with
the authority of passes, his act causing
the first real upsurge of the controversies
on native rights.
Two-and-a-half years after his return
to Great Britain 'he was chosen to fill
the shoes of Governor Darling in NSW.
It seemed about as unenviable a job
as could be handed to anybody. Darling
had lived in a continual brawl with
Wentworth's faction and the Press and
the emancipists, even if he had left the
colony in a more organised condition
than it had ever been before, with an
embryo land settlement scheme and
exploration widening the horizons every
year.
Bourke was set to come on top of a
severe drought and depression which had
threatened to wreck everybody in the
colony, even John Macarthur, so it was
said.
However, he arrived to find the inter-
lude of bankruptcy nearly over and
Darling's misfortunes turned out to be
his good fortune. His predecessor had
got most of the more unpopular teething
troubles of NSW out of the way. 'he
class feuds were dying down. The new
Civil Service was getting a grip of affairs.
The sale of Crown lands had begun. And
Darling had become so unpopular with
the Wenthworth faction and its allies that
a newcomer of any sort was likely to be
welcomed warmly.
He was undoubtedly the right man for
the moment, but everybody was
pleasantly surprised. He had an Irish
temper, the fame of which had preceded
him. John Macarthur, ever wary of
Governors, declared that he brought with
him a character for being “passionate
and despotic,” but soon found that he
“improved surprisingly on acquaintance.”
In fact, the amazing spectacle was soon
to be witnessed of Macarthur actually
supporting a Governor who wrote him
polite and intimate notes praising his
industry and exchanged the “Edinburgh
Review” with him for the “Quarterly,”
gave him long interviews and discussed
affairs of State with him with openness,
and generally created the impression
that though he had “an Augean stable to
cleanse,” he would almost certainly
cleanse it.
No less pleased with him was the
almost unconciliable Dr John Dunmore
Lang, who pronounced him to be “of
capacious mind and of superior intel-
lectual acquirements .... strictly just
and constitutionally humane,” though
“inflexibly attached to his own opinions
and, like most military men, impatient of
opposition or contradiction.” From Lang
that was about the best that could be said
of anybody—except Lang.


The generality of the population saw
him as a tall, handsome major-general
with a scarred face, an object for sym-
pathy during the first year of his office,
since he lost his wife, after a long illness,
within six months of his arrival in the
colony, being left with only one son out
of three and four daughters out of five.
It was his good luck that before, or soon
after, his arrival he was stripped by
the Home Government of many powers
held by the first series of autocratic
Governors which had raised dissension.
The sale of Crown lands, for instance,
replacing Governor’s grants, had removed
one pretext for the angry protests against
alleged favoritism which had filled the
air ever since the days of Hunter.
The old power of Governors to grant
tickets of leave was now circumscribed,
to remove another ground for charges
of patronage. Bourke himself guarded
against accusations of partiality in the
allotment of convict labor by publishing
hard-and-fast regulations based on fixed
principles. And the regular charges of
favoring particular newspapers in Gov-
ernment advertising became obsolete
with his foundation of the N.S.W.
“Government Gazette” in 1832.
Many important reforms during
Bourke's period of rule brought Aus-
tralia's oldest colony (as well as the by
this time separated Van Diemen’s Land)
on to the doormat of the era of respon-
sible government, the movement towards
which was further accelerated by the
growth of pastoral and industrial
resources.
From these developments emerged the
ability of inhabitants to pay adequate
taxation, a natural prerequisite to
responsible government.
The first steamship lines were estab-
lished to link the Hunter and Illawarra
and Sydney, and Sydney and Hobart.
The meetings which founded the Aus-
tralian Gas Light Company were held in
1836. The search for coalmines, and
corporate organisation of business, began.
Educational institutions such as the
School of Arts came into existence.
Coach services along roads served the
19 counties which now existed in the
colony, where only one had existed 20
years before.
Sydney during Bourke’s reign was re-
modelled in many ways, its streets
extended, the Circular Quay formed
under the busy hands of Major Thomas
Mitchell, the road across the Blue Moun-
tains rerouted over the Victoria Pass.
In ten years wool production had grown
from a mere 175,0001 b. in the year of
the first real commercial sale of Austra-
lian Merino fleeces in London (1821) to
the region of three million pounds, as
much as Britain’s import from Spain had
been only a few years previously. This
gave the colony for the first time a staple
export commodity.
Bourke met the reformed and expanded
Legislative Council in an historic session
immediately after his arrival. Its meet-
ings had been somewhat desultory in the
last years of Darling’s reign. The session
was historic because during its course
the first Appropriation Bill in Australian
Parliamentary history was passed.
It was the same year that regular
yearly Estimates began to be submitted
to the Legislature annually for the first
time and the first Australian Budget pro-
duced. It provided for Consolidated
Revenue for 1833 at £119,515 ss. Bd. and
expenditure of £110,252 7s. 9d., and for
a surplus of about £9263.
The next session saw the first real
constitutional Governor’s speech fore-
casting the establishment of civil juries
for trials in criminal cases. Before this
criminal juries had been military and
civil court juries, civilian. A new police
force on Peel’s London system and Bills
to build the great roads planned by
Mitchell were foreshadowed. The Gover-
nor noted the fact “that capital prudently
invested, obtained here a return unknown
in other countries” and that “this fact
would not long escape the attention of
the wealthy capitalists of Europe.”
The go-ahead nature of the Govern-
ment was evidenced by His Excellency’s
remarks that the great roads lately
designed by the Surveyor-General (Major
Mitchell) were being constructed to
permit “the use of steam, whenever the
contemplated improvements in impelling
power and the increased wealth and inter-
course of the country should render such
a mode of inland carriage available.”
r pHERE was something for everybody
A in Bourke’s Budgets. Sydney got a
census and a water-main tunnel. The
emancipists, not being felons, or convicted
of “such crimes as were accounted in law
infamous,” were qualified, on the advice
of the Judges, for jury service.
Emigrants poured in—from 1829 to
1834, over 6000. So did the usurers, who
acquired a special Bill to put a brake on
their avarice. So did the heirs of Bold
Jack Donahoe, who were curbed by
drastic laws for suppressing robbery and
bushranging.
The Post Office was reformed and
postage rates reduced on the ground that
with the new means of safe and expediti-
ous conveyance of mails revenue would
rise.
So it went on. The year 1836, the
year of the foundation of the Gas Light
Company, saw also a rise in exports,
“considerable influx of foreign capital,” a
taste for the fine arts beginning to show
itself, along with a Governmental desire
to “extend the blessings of general
education to the poorer classes'”
through a system of general instruc-
tion, which culminated presently
in the introduction of the Irish National
(Bell) system, though not for a little
while.
An increasing tendency to debate
and oppose items both in legislation and
in the Estimates began to manifest itself.
Mr John Blaxland could be depended on
to protest regularly against the salaries
of the senior Colonial Officials, a matter
in which he would have been much more
wary a few years earlier. Four or five
members of the enlarged Legislative
Council signed protests against the £3OOO
provided for in the 1836 Estimates for
establishing the schools on the Irish
system, and Mr Robert Campbell, of the
Wharf, and Mr Richard Jones, a devout
Methodist, raised their voices bitterly
against voting £6OO to establish an orphan
school for Catholics.
As if the other benefits lavished on
the city were not enough, it was proposed
to give Sydney a new Government House
out on Bennelong Point, and “a plan
(with which Mr Francis Greenway had
much to do originally) for forming a
Circular Wharf from shore to shore at
the head of Sydney Cove”; also, a hand-
some jail at Darlinghurst, “framed on
the principle of the Eastern Penitentiary
at Philadelphia, U.5.A.,” built in such a
situation that from outside it there would
be fine views of the gallows when
occupied.
At the same time, laws against indis-
criminate squatting were more closely
regulated. And there was a little trouble
about an agreement between one Batman,
a person whom the Governor apparently
did not admire very much and who had
been clandestinely “buying” large areas
of land for nothing in the remote country
of Port Phillip, where there were, by
1836, about 500 people and 100,000
sheep.
Bourke fought one round with Batman
and settled for all time any habit which
might have grown up among settlers of
buying land from Brown Brother with
beads or tomahawks.
In the “Government Gazette” he pro-
claimed “that every such treaty, bargain
and contract with aboriginal natives ....
is void and of no effect against the rights
of the Crown,” and that all persons
found on such lands would be kicked off
as trespassers.
Bourke’s term saw exploration ex-
tended vastly. Mitchell followed up the
Darling from the point at which Sturt
had left it and opened the way for the
foundation of the renowned and thirsty
outpost of Fort Bourke a little later.


m ■
mm w
jw* l
\
wMM
&Mt*.
■
awr
iitH m
***«#
£/
'• ; <X->;,
ISr
4a>
L ■*>
m&m
TELL YOU ALL ABOUT
PUMPS
d
JACUZZI Bros. Inc., Richmond, California, U.S.A.
Pumps, Water Systems and Swimming
Pool Equipment made under licence by
Be Choosey f
Buy Jacugzif
Modern design, dependability, convenience and
economy are some of the features of 1.8. C. Jacuzzi
pumps.
lET THESE LEAFLETS TELL MORE ABOUT THEM. INCLUDING
Series RP deep and shallow well pumps and water
systems. Starline Jet Pumps —can be placed
_ _ 400 ft. above water level. Engine-driven Jet
Pumps with automatic start Filtromat sand type pool filter, Gyroflow
diatomaceous earth filter and a complete range of swimming pool
equipment.
See your local
reseller or
POST COUPON NOW
INTERCOLONIAL BORING CO. LTD.
BRISBANE 450-466 Ann St. Ph. 21561
Rockhampton, Townsville, Cairns, Sydney
To 1.8. C. Please send me de-
tails on 1.8. C. Jacuzzi pumps.
Name
Address
8.17/2
When he had finished, only about 130
miles of the river remained unexplored,
In the year of this exploit the Governor
became the first man to receive a knight-
hood (KCB) while on Australian soil
and Mitchell followed him into the realm
of the "Sirs’ to mark his exploring
prowess, along with Sir Francis Forbes,
the Chief Justice.
Bourke might have remained in Aus-
tralia for a longer term, his first five
years having ended in 1836, the year
before the Victorian era opened. But he
quarrelled with the Home Government,
which refused to confirm his suspension
from the Executive Council of the
Colonial Treasurer, Riddell, who had
insisted against the Governor’s wishes in
standing for the chairmanship of the
Quarter Sessions in opposition to
Bourke’s approved candidate, Therry,
who held no embarrassing official posi-
tions. There was a tale of Bourke’s
humanity behind the outward event.
Bourke resigned and, being a poor
sailor, went off to England via Valparaiso,
preferring to cross the Andes rather than
round the Horn, at the end of 1837.
~U"is age was the one in which Port
Phillip and South Australia were
settled. It was also the first great age of
immigration.
No less than 10,000 immigrants under
bounty and otherwise came in under his
tegis, and a total of nearly £lOO,OOO, equal
to a year’s revenue at the beginning of
his term, and raised out of land revenue,
was expended to promote the recruitment
of new Australians, thousands of them
much needed artistans and miners who
brought with them the first new skills and
instituted the beginnings of Australia’s
industrial wealth.
Bourke was undoubtedly the most uni-
versally popular of all the early Gover-
nors. His period represented the twilight
of autocracy. He encouraged the evolu-
tionary movements working towards self-
government without necessarily support-
ing them, did not interfere with freedom
of expression, was the foe or object of
enmity of no faction. He showed a
liberal interest in culture and his attitude
generally was courteous and impersonal
in his official dealings. He reformed the
flogging laws, protected the aborigines.
In the year following the end of his
period of government, Australia reached
one of the definable stages of its growth.
Though in 1838. the year after he went
home, NSW held more convicts than
ever before, about 35,000, the convict
system was on its deathbed. And in
that year, the year before Henry Parkes
arrived on these shores, the free popula-
tion of the Australian mainland reached
50,000. It was during Bourke’s era that
Australian overseas trade first reached
£1,000,000.
After he had returned to England he
was offered another appointment, but
refused it and retired to his estates in
Ireland, living the life of a great land-
lord, popular among his tenantry, per-
forming his duties as High Sheriff of
Limerick and Colonel of the 64th Regi-
ment, collaborating with Earl Fitzwilliam
in editing Edmund Burke's correspond-
ence, which was published in four
volumes, dying a full general, 79 years
old, in 1855 after collapsing suddenly in
church at Castleconnel.
His statue, the first erected in Aus-
tralia, stands outside the Public Library
building in Sydney, the tangible tribute
of the public to his popularity.




The Wild
Cat Pages
THE ECONOMY
Mr. MENZIES COMPROMISES
FINANCE BUSINESS ECONOMIC COMMENT r NVESTMENT OIL AND MINING
Tt is encouraging that Mr Menzies has
A been abie to formulate a reasonably
acceptable economic policy in the face
of unrelenting demands from major
pressure groups, often representing con-
flicting economic interests. By and
large, it is a compromise decision, meet-
ing some of the demands for an arti-
ficial lift in general purchasing power,
giving a measure of relief to the motor-
car industry and offering welcome aid
to a large section of manufacturers
through a system of investment allow-
ances. So far the Government has been
able to withstand the more rabid demands
for inflationary spending. Mr Menzies
has also stood his ground on the vexed
question of import licensing, and in-
creased protection for domestic manu-
facturers is to be given through the tariff
mechanism.
Personal income tax will be cut by 5
p.c. for the whole of 1961-62. Tax
deductions will be concentrated in the
four full months to June 30, considerably
increasing their effect on overall purchas-
ing power. The fact that the old level
of taxation is to be restored after June
30 should go a long way towards
restricting the inflationary effects of the
rebate. This is one of the smartest
economic moves ever made by the Prime
Minister.
Sales tax on cars, station wagons
and other motor vechicles has been
reduced from 30 p.c. to 22\ p.c. Sales
tax on commercial vehicles, motor cycles
and motor vehicle parts and accessories
has been cut from 16f p.c. to 12| p.c.
This should give the motor vehicles
manufacturers and distributors a shot in
the arm, without causing an immediate
wild buying spree. The motor industry
can always help itself further by reduc-
ing prices.
The unemployed will get an extra
7s. 6d. a week—neither here nor there,
but this may help the Government to
get a few more votes if it comes to new
elections. The increase in advances for
war service homes (from £2750 to £3500)
should be some help to the building in-
dustry, beside being an additional vote-
catcher.
Co much for the immediate short-term
measures. In the medium and long run
we have an increase in local government
borrowing, an additional £lO million for
State public works and a lift in Com-
monwealth Savings Bank’s housing loans.
All these should also prove popular with
the electorate, without being excessively
inflationary.
The Government will step up Com-
monwealth expenditure on defence, the
Post Office and “civil works generally.”
This seems to be wide enough to cover
almost anything. Some major capital
works should be undertaken, particularly
in the underdeveloped North. Almost any
development expenditure in the North-
roads, bridges, dams, railways, even
housing—can be classified as spending
on defence, in so far as it raises produc-
tive capacity and attracts new settlers.
Underpopulation of this vast area is one
of Australia’s major defence risks. And,
without substantial public expenditure
on basic transport facilities, private in-
vestment in the North faces exhorbitant
initial development costs. To what extent
the Government will utilise this oppor-
tunity remains to be seen.
Politically, Queensland’s chances of
attracting a large volume of Common-
wealth spending on essential works look
good—it was in the Sunshine State that
the Government had lost most of its votes
and seats during the last elections.
Ane of the most important measures
announced by the Prime Minister last
week is the 20 p.c. investment allowance
applicable to new plant and equipment
in the manufacturing industry. The
Government has finally realised the cru-
cial importance of providing adequate
incentives for private capital investment
aimed at improving productive efficiency.
The 20 p.c. investment allowance is a
good start, which should be followed
by a comprehensive system of adequate
depreciation allowances on existing plant.
This type of investment encourages the
output of producer goods and thereby
raises the productive and employment
capacity of the basic sector of the
economy. It usually has some immediate
effect on unemployment, greatly expands
employment opportunities in the medium
and long run and encourages a transfer
of labor and capital resources to the
basic sector.
Finally, Mr Menzies says he will try to
regulate imports by non-licensing
methods. A return to import licensing
would not only seriously raise domestic
production costs, impede Australia's
export drive and court disastrous trade
retaliation, but also violate our obliga-
tions on the IMF loan. The Tariff
Board is the proper institution to evalu-
ate the protection needs of the local
industry. Mr Menzies has been rather
vague on the possible changes in the
Tariff Board’s policy. It is only to be
hoped that this impartial and expert
body will not be pushed too far into
protectionism for reasons of political
expediency.
HFhe Prime Minister has done a reason-
ably good job under the circum-
stances, although politically he has been
more successful than economically Mr
Menzies has stolen the Opposition’s
thunder without going too far with arti-
ficial stimulants. However, his short term
measures still contain a strong inflat-
ionary element which must be carefully
watched. If inflation gets out of hand
and imports rise too rapidly in response
to rising economic buoyancy, a new
dangerous inflationary boom may
develop, necessitating a fresh round of
drastic economic curbs.
This could be disastrous both for the
Government and for Australia.
EUGENE BAJKOWSKI


m
®AGU&
Brands
YOUR
FAVOURITE
BRANDY
ill
BRANDY
TASMANIA
A £500,000 INVESTMENT
T ate in January, Mr H. G. Osborne, of
Kraft Foods Ltd, made an extensive
tour of the bush farmlands of north-east
Tasmania. In the company of Mr R. T.
Fagan, the State Deputy Premier and
Minister for Industrial Development, he
looked over the fertile paddocks in which
Kraft’s directors see the justification
for the recent £500,000 investment. For
Tasmania this is a lot of capital to be
put into the development of the State.
To a Government that has spent many
thousands of pounds encouraging indus-
try to invest in Tasmania using cheap
hydroelectric power as its chief bait, the
advent of Kraft must seem a gift from
the gods.
For a company with the stature of
Kraft to settle on an area that has been
largely neglected by the Government in
its “sell Tasmania” campaign, without
the expenditure of any public money,
makes it appear that the agricultural
potential of the State has been written
down in favor of secondary industry.
Perhaps the smoke from those wished-
for smokestacks had obscured the view
of acres of chocolate soil.
Now Mr Osborne has tilted his hand
slightly and the other player in the game,
the Tasmanian Government, has seer its
strength. The apparent ace in the hole
is the initial expansion at the Dewcrisp
factory worth £250.000 in its first year.
Other cards are year-round employ-
ment for 60 people and the placing of
contracts for an additional 2500 to 3000
tons of vegetables in the 1962-63 season.
Add to this the fact that Kraft is inter-
ested in the fishing industry since its
acquisition of the Greenseas canneries
at Narooma and Eden and the realisa-
tion that the Tasmanian pelagic fishing
has only been scratched and the prospects
for tuna harvesting look bright, and the
hand held by Osborne seems unbeatable.
far the strongest card in his hand is
the one that has received least atten-
tion so far. Whereas the Government-
sponsored industries import their raw
materials, this industry extracts its
materials from the very soil of the State,
making it a doubly attractive proposition.
No public money has been spent yet,
but Kraft’s plans mean that the long-
promised aid to the North-East may be
expedited considerably. Access roads
have always been a problem, one that the
Government is well aware of, but, lack-
ing any major pressure, the realisation
of the promises made has been so tardy
as to be almost non-existent.
Mr Osborne says that full exploitation
of the North-East depends on communi-
cations with the North-East being im-
proved. This brought up the mention
of sealing and improving the existing
road to Bell Bay and the vehicular ferrv
by Mr Fagan, although he would give
no undertaking on this. Construction of
a new road has been included in tnc
next five-year road plan.
To develop the fishing industry an
all-weather port is a vital necessity. This,
too, brought an assurance that work
would start fairly soon at Bridport, the
port selected by Mr Osborne as the most
suitable. Bridport is only a short hop
from the £6-mi!lion land-settlement
scheme on Flinders Island, another
possible source of cash crops for a vege-
table processing industry. With no
actual demands made, the Government's
ready acquiescence to suggestions seems
to indicate that the welcoming carpet is
down.
W. H. DAVIES
JAPAN
EEC WORRIES
Australia, New Zealand and Canada
ll are not the only countries concerned
about the possible damage which
Britain’s entry into the European Corn-
man Market may cause to their export
trade. Japan, Yugoslavia and a number
of other countries seem even more
worried.
Japan's Prime Minister, Mr Hayato
Jkeda, recently told the Diet in a major
policy speech that the rapid growth of
the European Economic Community and
its increasingly close ties with the United
States are "a matter of grave concern.”
Mr Ikeda said that “the fact that the
European Economic Community has
now become a ‘New Europe," matching
in power the Soviet Union and the
United States, and that Washington is
trying to strengthen America’s economic
ties with the EEC is a matter of grave
concern to Japan.” The Japanese Prime
Minister added that coping with such
developments as the European Common
Market will be Japan's new long-run
task. The Yugoslav Government has
also voiced its concern over the antici-
pated falling off of Yugoslav agricul-
tural exports to Western Europe because
of the increasing integration of the EEC's
primary products market.
In the long run, Japan’s Common
Market difficulties may become more
serious than Australia's problems. Japan
may find itself being pushed out of
its Western European markets and
competing on the American market with
EEC nations favored by substantial
reciprocal tariff concessions secured from
the United States.
Japan's difficulties on the Western
European and United States markets
may, however, pave the way for a closer
economic relationship with Australia and
New Zealand.


WORLD-WIDE
1
100% British Made
the iron that travels...
The Tilley Domestic Iron goes anywhere, tackles any-
thing. NO flex to get in your way; it is entirely
self-contained, and runs for 4 hours on one filling
pint of ordinary kerosene). Clean, easy to use, with
exact heat control.
For trouble-free ironing, anytime, anywhere, you
can put your trust in TILLEY.
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores. In
case of difficulty write to: —
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY PTY. LIMITED
109 2 Mt. Alexander Rd., Essendon, W. 5. Australia
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the Manager,
who will quote you a price for the original,
GERMANY
DILEMMA AT LEIPZIG
qrHE question of whether to take part
in East Germany’s Leipzig Inter-
national Spring Trade Fair this year
poses a serious problem for Western
business concerns. International trade
fairs play an important part in promot-
ing world trade, and boycotts based on
purely political considerations are gener-
ally undesirable—particularly if the over-
all industrial superiority of the Western
world i ; taken into account. Until
recently businessmen from the United
Kingdom, Italy, France, West Germany
and several other countries participated
fairly regularly in the Leipzig Fair,
Some big Western concerns have erected
large permanent stands and pavilions,
For West Germany the Leipzig Fair
has always been a thorny problem —
boycotting it often meant losing busi-
ness to competitors from other West
European countries, while participation
could imply some degree of recognition
of Mr Ulbricht’s Pankow regime. Then
there is also the purely human element,
since a trip to the Fair often provided
West German businessmen with a chance
to meet friends and relatives living in
East Germany.
However, this year there is a particu-
larly strong case for a general boycott
of the Leipzig Spring Fair because of the
political situation in Germany and the
East German regime's blatant exploita-
tion of the Fair for purely political
purposes. Mr Ulbricht's official spokes-
men have been arrogantly stating that
participation or non-participation in the
Leipzig Fair will “provide an acid test of
goodwill" towards the “people's Gov
ernment” and that those who boycott it
do so at their own peril.
in view of the present Berlin crisis and
the flood of belligerent statements coming
from the East German regime,
the Leipzig Trade Fair has unfortunately
acquired a purely political significance.
Participation by the West —even if limited
in scope—will be promptly used by the
Pankow communists for their incessant
campaign to secure international recog-
nition as a “sovereign German State.'
Nothing is offered in return. in fact,
with characteiistic arrogance, the East
German authorities are imposing
penalties on West German firms which
did not participate in 1961.
The London “European Chemical
News” reports that Bayer's space at the
Fair was handed over to competitors,
while DEGUSSA's (another big West
German concern) stand was given over to
a rival East German State-owned com-
pany, which then proceeded to fit it out
in a style exactly similar to that of its
former owner. Visitors saw the change
in ownership only at the very last
moment. Such petty trickery has done a
lot to diminish the economic signficance
of the Leipzig Fair.
Moreover, manufacturers and traders
who want to exhibit their goods in East-
ern Europe have ample opportunity to
take part in the Poznan International
Trade Fair held slightly later in Poland
Mr Gomulka's Government maintains
diplomatic relations with most Western
countries —and receives some economic
aid from the United States —and is to be
much preferred to the East German
regime, which is the most obnoxious of
all satellite governments. Then there is
the International Trade Fair in Vienna,
Austria’s beautiful and strategically
located capital, just outside the Iron
Curtain and also largely directed at
trading with Eastern Europe.
Participation in the Leipzig Spring Fair
this year cannot give the West much
economically. Politically it would be
an expensive folly.


NOW AVAILABLE IN THE FAMOUS
INTERNATIONAL PACK
f The new round bottle ’
IMMU
mm
* • s
|M»ScOTdj
nfjjgw
mm
FSBUCHAHASI
ASCOW SCOT!
BLACK&WHITE
BUCHANANS iC „ v
CHOICE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
k«
iLjf/i
You're so right ...
insist on
‘BLACK & WHITE’
SCOTCH WHISKY
"BUCHANANS”
By Appointment
Scotch Whisky Distillers
y 3 \
io Her Majesty he Queen
James Buchanan & Co. Ltd.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO. LTD.
GLASGOW, SCOTLAND
LONDON
4721
EAST EUROPE
POZNAN TRADE FAIR
/~Yne of the largest regular international
trade fairs in the world, and the
key trade promotion centre in Eastern
Europe, the Poznan International Trade
Fair was first established in 1921. Poznan,
one of the oldest and largest Polish cities,
is favorably situated at the intersection
of Europe's international transport
routes. During the Poznan Fair (June
10-24, 1962) the Polish Airlines, Lot,
and most European airlines will make
scheduled landings in Poznan, bringing
it within one or two hours’ flying time
from the capital cities of Europe The
Fair's grounds are conveniently situated
near the centre of the city.
During the last five years, the covered
exhibition area increased from 42,000 to
over 100 000 sq. metres. Another 24,000
sq. metres is expected to be added over
the next five years or so. The rapidly
growing importance of the Poznan Trade
Fair is illustrated by the steady rise in
the number of countries participating—
in 1955 there were 24 participants, in
1956 35. in 1959 46, and last year 57.
Several large West European countries,
including the UK. France, West Ger-
many, Sweden and Italy, have
built their own permanent exhibition
halls.
In 1961 the Fair celebrated its 30th
anniversary with 57 flags of the partici-
pating countries, 36 large official and
collective pavilions and thousands of
businessmen from 66 countries. Many
countries, including Czechoslovakia,
France and Sweden, and a considerable
number of polish exhibitors have partici-
pated in the Fair 25 times, Traditional
exhibitors at the Fair now include the
UK, Denmark. Austria, Hungary, the
USSR. Morocco, the United Arab
Republic. Brazil. Canada. Cuba, the
United States, Afghanistan, Ceylon,
China, India. Israel, Mongolia. West and
East Germany, Pakistan, France, Italy.
Sweden, Japan, Belgium, the Argentine,
Finland, the Union of South Africa, Chile,
Holland. Switzerland, Yugoslavia, Nor-
way. Luxemburg, Turkey, Ghana,
Portugal and Spain. Australia took part
in 1959 and it is hoped that Australian
goods will be exhibited this year.
The volume of trade turnover at the
Fair is rapidly increasing. Last year the
overall turnover was 25 p.c. higher than
in 1960 and almost 250 p.c. greater than
in 1955.
Poland is now the sixth largest world
producer of black coal and coke, ninth of
pig iron and steel, the ninth largest ship-
builder, fifth largest producer of rail-
way rolling stock and twelfth largest of
chemicals. Further expansion in the
export of industrial consumer goods,
machines and other capital equipment,
chemicals, complete industrial plants,
agricultural foodstuffs, etc., is under way.
This progress is reflected in the Polish
exhibits. Foreign exporters to Poland
have wider possibilities because Polish
imports of raw materials, machinery,
equipment and durable goods are steadily
rising. The participation of foreign
countries in the PIF is important not only
to Poland, as the exhibitors who
display their goods at Poznan have the
possibility of attracting buyers from
other countries.
'T'hf. world’s great industrial and trading
nations often attempt to show the
entire range of their productive capacity
at the Poznan Trade Fair. Smaller coun-
tries usually exhibit goods which have the
best chances of being marketed through
the Fair.
Poland is now one of Australia's
largest wool customeis. Some possibilities
also exist for exports of Australian tech-
nical (allow, yarn, fibres, asbestos, tan-
nings, essential oils, glues, bowels, con-
centrates of zinc and rutile and even iron
and steel sheets.
Of course, the possible rate of increase
of Polish intake of Australian products
to some extent depends on the possibility
of marketing more Polish goods in Aus-
tralia. Polish foreign trading companies
can offer a large range of light, medium
and heavy capital equipment, in addition
to the usual consumer goods.
Although it must be realised that both
for Australia and Poland any increases
in their trade exchange will only be mar-
ginal, when compared with their entire
foreign trade turnover, they may still be
useful and welcome additions to export
earnings.
J. BONIECKI


COMPANY REVIEWS AND NOTES
REPCQ LTD
FUTURE REASONABLY PROMISING
TJepco Ltd was incorporated in 1937
to acquire the issued capital of
Replacement Parts Pty Ltd and Auto
Grinding Co. Pty Ltd. The co. is the
largest manufacturer and wholesale
distributor of automotive replacement
parts in Australia. Repco also makes a
large range of components for Aus-
tralian-made and assembled vehicles and
manufactures garage equipment, pre-
cision tools, gauge-measuring instruments
and general industrial products.
The operating subsidiaries are:
Engine Parts Group. —Russell Manufacturing
Co. Pty Ltd, Brico Manufacturing Company,
Repco Bearing Co. Pty Ltd, A. Wassilielf Pty
Ltd, Repco Engine Services Pty Ltd and A. T.
Richardson and Sons Pty Ltd.
Brake Group. —Paton's Brake Replacements
Pty Ltd.
Transmission Group—Repco Universal Joints
Pty Ltd, Specialized Engineering Co. Pty Ltd,
Hardy Spicer (Australia) Pty Ltd.
Equipment Group—Warren and Brown Pty
Ltd, Replex Pty Ltd, Repco Automotive Equip-
ment Co Pty Ltd, Reg Harrison Pty Ltd.
Industrial Service Group —Coventry Gauge
and Tool Co. (Aust.) Pty Ltd, Brenco Pty Ltd.
Merchandising and Automotive Engineering
Group—Replacement Parts Pty Ltd, Motor
Traders (Vic.) Pty Ltd, Replacement Parts
(Tas.) Pty Ltd, Replacement Parts (N.S.W.
Div.) Pty Ltd, Motor Traders Pty Ltd, Hislop
Lloyd Pty Ltd, Motor Traders (Q'ld.) Pty Ltd,
Motor Supplies Pty Ltd, Reed and Walker Ltd.
Export Group—Repco Export Co. Pty Ltd,
Repco (N.Z.) Ltd, New Zealand; Replacement
Parts (Australia) Ltd, U.K.; Replacement Parts
of Australia (8.C.) Ltd, Canada.
Research and Apprentice Training Group—
Repco Research Pty Ltd, Repco Apprentice
Training Centre Pty Ltd.
Associated companies of Repco Ltd
are:
Kirkstall-Repco Pty Ltd, Payne, Byrne and
Blackford Pty Ltd, Associated Power Seals Pty
Ltd, Super Seals Ply Ltd, Associated Engineer-
ing (N Z.) Ltd. New Zealand; Bimetal Bearings
Private Ltd, India.
Overseas affiliations include:
Great Britain and Europe—Aeroplane and
Motor Aluminium Casting Ltd, U.K.; Aero-
quip, A.G., Switzerland; Associated Engineer-
ing Ltd, U.K.; Birfield Ltd, U.K.; Bound
Brook Bearings Ltd. U.K.; Clayton Dewandre
Co. Ltd, U.K.; Eichtel and Sachs, A.G., West
Germany; International Nickel Co. (Mond)
Ltd, U.K.; Optical Measuring Tools Ltd, U.K.;
Super Oil Seals and Gaskets Ltd, U.K.
USA—Aeroquip Corporation, J. H. Bender
Equipment Company, The Bendix Corporation,
Borg-Warner International Corporation, Clevite
Corporation, Salsbury Corporation, Sterling
Aluminium Products Inc., Thompson Products
Inc.
In 1960-61 Repco Ltd moved to its
new headquarters, 630 St Kilda Road,
Melbourne, Vic.
In the six months’ period July to
December, 1960, Repco achieved a very
satisfactory level of profits. However,
since the end of the financial year the
motor industry has felt the full impact
of the economic measures introduced by
the Federal Government in November,
1960, and the abandonment of import
restrictions.
Repco’s manufacturing companies’
contracts from vehicle manufacturers
have been reduced and this resulted in
a heavy drop in orders. These factors
brought about a retrenchment of
employees throughout the secondary
industry and especially in the automotive
sector. Repco had to lay-off and reduce
operations to a four-day week. However,
the spare parts and automotive repair
trade remained steady.
The holding company, Repco Ltd, is
continuing its ambitious takeover policy.
Reg Harrison Pty Ltd, Alexandria
(NSW), manufacturers of “Meco”
hand-tools and “Flarco” automotive
voltage controls, cut-outs and relays,
was acquired. In December, 1960, the
business of Pratts Auto Supplies, Barkley
Street, Ararat, was acquired as a branch
of Replacement Parts Pty Ltd. During
the year Pauer & Co. Pty Ltd, of Bays-
water (Victoria), was purchased.
During the year Repco completed the
takeover of Coventry Gauge & Tool Co.
(Aust.) Pty Ltd. Consideration was the
issue of 128,000 ss. ords. at 6s. Id.
premium.
Exports have now become an impor-
tant factor in the company’s operations.
Overseas sales in 1960-61 increased by
53 p.c. The UK and European busi-
ness increased by 65 p.c. The company’s
New Zealand business is rapidly expand-
ing. Repco has now three overseas com-
panies to distribute its products, while
Repco Export Co Pty Ltd handles ship-
ments and all the paper work involved.
Last year the company’s products were
exhibited at the International Motor
Show at Earls Court, London, resulting
in useful orders. Another small exhibi-
tion of service equipment was put up at
the International Automotive Service
Industries Show in Los Angeles, USA,
also resulting in some very important
sales and inquiries in the USA and
Canada.
A 25 p.c. interest was acquired in
Bimetal Bearings Private Ltd, formed
in India to make automotive engine
bearings. Located in Madras, it will
manufacture under licence from Clevite
Corp., of Cleveland, USA, which holds
a 25 p.c. interest. The remaining 50 p.c.
will be owned bv India Piston Ltd.
Another new subsidiary, Replacement
Parts of Australia (8.C.) Ltd, was formed
to operate a merchandising warehouse
in Vancouver, Canada.
Consolidated net profit for the year
ended June 30, 1961, was £8923 lower
at £1,187,858 (excluding £675 capital
profit), after writing off £595,049 for
depreciation and amortisation (up
£156,293), and setting aside £888,660 for
taxation (up £145,737). Tax under-
provided in the previous term by
£42,724 was adjusted last year. Consoli-
dated net profit included £60,239 income
from investments (down £3019):
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June Profit. Dividends, serves. serves.*
30, £ £ £ £
15 p.c.
1957 .. 522,300 403,086 119,214 3,218,963
Share premiums capitalised,
£1,566,493 1,652,470
Net loss sale assets, £28,062 . . 1,624,408
Tax overprovided, £14,864.. .. 1,639,272
10 p.c.
1958 .. 631.464 469,948 161,516 1,800,788
Tax overprovided, £3475 .. .. 1,804,263
Net loss sale assets, £2993 . . 1,801,270
10 p.c.
1959 . . 673,286 469,948 203,338 2,004,608
Share premiums, £1,144,687 .. 3,149,295
Tax overprovided, £5228 .. .. 3,154,523
Profit sale assets, £1529 . . . . 3,156,052
Pre-acquisition reserves, new sub-
sidiaries, £95,409 .... .. 3,251,461
From subsidiary, £4595 . . . . 3,256,056
10 p.c.
1960 .. 1,196,781 574,049 622,732 3,878,788
Profit sale assets, £675 . . . . 3,879,493
Share premiums, £945,578 .. . . 4,825,041
Tax underprovided, £42,724 . . 4,782,317
From subsidiary, £4381 . . . . 4,786,698
1961 . . 1,187,858 668,537 519,321 5,306,019
* Subject to intangibles, £687,061, at June 30, 1961.
Consolidated net profit was equal to
17.8 p.c. on higher average ord. capital,
compared with 20.9 p.c. in the previous
term, 14.3 p.c. in 1959, 13.4 p.c. in 1958
and 20.7 p.c. in 1957.
Interest on registered unsecured notes
and other fixed loans amounted to
£133,284, an increase of £69,658. Divi-
dend remained steady at 10 p.c. on the
higher capital absorbing £668,537.
Reserves benefited by £1,427,231 —
including £945,578 share premium-
rising to £5,306,019, subject to £687,061
intangibles (up £44,076).
Authorised capital was increased to
£15,000,000. The three-for-ten issue, at
2s. 6d. premium on ss. share, and share
consideration for companies acquired
during the year lifted paid capital by
£1,803,508 to £7,577,752. Net tangible
assets backing for the ss. ords. is Bs. per
ss. stock unit.
During the year the company issued
£1,000,000 1\ p.c. registered unsecured
notes, maturing in 1970, which were
fully subscribed. A £450,000 loan was
received from the Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society Ltd, secured by long
term mortgages on a number of free-
hold properties.
Notes, mortgages and loans increased
by £1,428,554 to £2,456,074; bank over-
draft was lower at £916,595. Creditors
were £257,138 lower at £1,035,212. Loans


m
mmspmsamssm
.
mmm
mmm
. .
SSI
■■'■V
Va
Uo many
things that
make life
happier
come through
S 8c L steel pipes
Through steel pipes of every conceivable
size, flow the oil and raw materials that keep the
continent’s industrial wheels turning; the life
preserving water; gas, steam and the electric
current that provides power, lighting and com-
munications.
Steel pipe is so easy to form and join and has
the inherent strength and stability to take tough
assignments for long periods. Costwise, steel pipe
stands alone for low initial cost and low installa-
tion cost.
Before finalising your next project, talk “steel
piping” with Stewarts & Lloyds; the leading
Australian producers of welded and seamless steel
pipes.
STEWARTS and LLOYDS (Distributors) PTY. LIMITED
BRANCHES: All Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong,
Geelong, Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs AGENCIES: Cairns, Mackay, Kalgoorlie.
55G.1.61.


Hstab ished ISt>B
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON a
,o'suluvav
PTYLTD
'\*«l sKwi?’ '
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOK BINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
li
HELP
LEGACY
all the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM2OOI.
at call decreased by £735,762 to
£138,083:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1959. 1960. 1961.
Paid capital ..£4,699,481 £5,774,244 £7,577,7.32
Reserves . . 2,004.608 3,878,788 5,306,019
Minority interest 48,087 —•
Notes, mortgage,
loan .. 700,000 1,027,520 2,456,074
Overdraft . . 594,952 1,441,771 916,595
Creditors .. 558,153 1,292,350 1,035,212
Loans on c-all . . 210,772 873,84.3 138,4383
Tax provision . . 427.281 723,-336 890,804
Staff funds .. 120,297 195,344 228,280
Final div. . . 234,974 288,587 378,858
£9,550,518 £15,544,072 £18,927,707
Freeholds .. 1,556,703 2,858,404 3,855,735
Plant, vehicles,
etc. . . 1,819,931 2,749,205 3,546,066
Shares assoc.
cos. .. 889,370 1,028,812 1,070,561
Advances to
assoc, cos. 35,000 -
Stock .. .. 2,991,619 5.145,191 6,763,490
Debtors .. 1,77.3,525 3,089,013 2,971,742
Cash, bonds .. 16,979 30,402 33,046
Intangibles .. 405,385 642,985 687,001
£9,550,518 £15,544,072 £18,927,707
The company properties are generally
conservatively stated. Freeholds rose by
£997.331 to £3,855.735 and plant and
vehicles by £796,801 to £3,546,066.
Shares in associated companies increased
slightly to £1,070,561. Stock rose by
£1,618,305 to £6,763,496. Sundry debtors
were lower at £2,971.742 (down
£118,271). reflecting the lower level of
trading experienced during the closing
months of the year.
Repco opened several branches and
acquired property for long-term projects.
Like many other companies Repco
suffered somewhat during the last few
months of the financial year, but it came
out well from a difficult period. The
future offers a reasonable degree of
promise.
At the last sale in Sydney the ss. ords.
fetched 13s. Bd. a unit. The immediate
return is 3.6 p.c. on the basis of the 10
p.c. dividend rate.
BONDS INDUSTRIES LTD
INTERNAL STRENGTH AND EFFICIENCY
D° nd s Industries Ltd spent nearly £TV
million on new buildings, plant and
machinery during last term, but such
was the company’s great internal strength
that no new calls for funds were made
on shareholders, and at the end of the
period the company was still compara-
tively liquid. Another £500.000 will be
needed for expansion in the current year,
but again most of this can come from
internal sources without causing much
embarrassment.
The secret lies in the conservative
dividend policy followed by directors
over the past 10 years. Distribution to
shareholders has seldom exceeded half
the earnings. In the last financial year
profit was £403,135, the first setback in
five years. It compared with £460,596
in 1960, £437.301 in 1959, £433,910 in
1958. But despite the fall, the result
was still equal to a handsome 30 p.c. on
capital. In the previous three years it
was 34.6 p.c., 32.7 p.c. and 32.5 p.c.
For the past five years, the ordinary
dividend has been 124 p.c., requiring
£156,250 each year since 1958. The
7 p.c. preference shares took another
£28,000. This meant that last year re-
serves benefited by £218,885 surplus
profits as well as a small capital profit
of £3644. Total reserves and surplus
profit are £2.132.001, exceeding paid-up
capital (including £400,000 in prefs.) by
£482,001:
Bonds Industries and Subsidiaries.
Dividends —To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Old. Total. serves. serves.
£ p.e. p.c. £ £ £
Intangibles w/o, £275,384 .. .. 1,309.118
Capital profit, £42,054 .. .. 1,351,172
Provisions written back, £2496 .. 1,353,668
Unexplained additions, £19,277 .. 1,372,945
’59.. 437,301 7 121 184,250 253,0.31 1,625,996
Capital profit, £7130 .. .. 1,633,126
’60.. 460,596 7 121 184,250 276,346 1.909,472
Capital profit, £3644 .. ~ 1,913,116
’61.. 403,135 7 12-i 184,250 218,885 2,132,001
Balance sheet movements reflect the
large amounts spent on new plant and
equipment last year. Fixed assets appear
at £2,850,005 (after £1,604,919 deprecia-
tion), almost double the £1,599,139 book
value a year earlier. Most of this expen-
diture was financed by the sale of invest-
ments which are down from £1,385,000
to £567,226. Most of these will be sold
during the current year to meet the addi-
tional commitments on new plant, etc.
The bank was called on for an addi-
tional £157,465, lifting the overdraft to
£339,815. Creditors were £145.734 higher
at £464,318:
Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Capital— 1959. 19(50. 1961.
Ordinary . . £1,250,000 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Preference . . 400,000 400,000 400,000
Reserves . . . . 1,625,996 1,909,472 2,132,001
Outside Share-
holders .. 1,192 1,251 1,312
Overdraft . . 18,026 182,350 339,815
Creditors .. .. 210,897 318,584 464,318
Taxation .. .. 411,631 523,600 491,155
Final dividend . . 94,125 94,125 94,125
Loans . . . . 513,132 500,029 416,372
Mortgage . . . . 18,000 17,500 17,000
Contingencies .. 20,000 50,000
£4,542,999 £5,216,911 £5,056,093
Freehold and plant 1,519,010 1,599,139 2,850,005
Investments .. 774,575 1,885,000 567,226
Stock .. 1,675,951 1,522,340 1,630,966
Debtors .. .. 543,767 652.796 587,868
Cash .. .. 1,096 1,054 1,247
Deposits .. .. 28,600 19,211 18,786
£4,542,999 £5,216,911 £5,656,098
Stocks show a small rise of £108,626
to £1,630,966. Book debts fell £64,928
to £587,868.
Most of the capital outlay (£1.2 million)
went into the new fine-spinners mill at
Wentworthville, an outer Sydney suburb,
which began operations on June 28, 1961.
The building has been designed to allow
doubling of the plant with a minimum of
delay and dislocation. Most of the out-
put will be absorbed within the group
although small outside orders will be
handled.
Last year a new factory was completed
at Port Kembla (NSW). The old
Camperdown establishment was recon-
structed and the half-hose plant disposed
of because of oversupply in the industry.
Takeovers have not been a feature of
the company's expansion. It operates
through six subsidiaries, at six separate
plants—four in Sydney and two in the
country areas of NSW. Branch offices
give representation in all States. The
principal lines are underwear, towels and
baby napkins, and sportswear.
The company, in common with all
others in the same field, had a difficult
time in 1961 due to the effects of the


DJ
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT Go. Ltd.
Financier . . Established 1882
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
Interest payable quarterly through the Bank of N.S.W.
Free of Exchange.
DIRECTORS:
W. R. Schofield (Chairman)
T. H. Martin Dr W. F. Pattinson
Alternate Directors: R. V. Agnew, G. L. A. Donohoo
Trustee for Debenture Stock Holders:
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited
APPLICATIONS AND PROSPECTUS
Applications will be accepted only on one of the forms
of application attached to the printed copy of the Pros-
pectus which may be obtained from:
% All branches of the Bank of New South Wales in New
South Wales, Australian Capital Territory, Victoria,
Queensland.
9 Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange, or
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
Head Office: 74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 4521-2-3.
AND BRANCHES
Underwriting Brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
20-22 O’Connell Street, Sydney
84 William Street, Melbourne. 340 Queen Street, Brisbane
BROKERS IN VICTORIA
Clarke & Co., 450 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
BROKERS IN QUEENSLAND
Charles Elliott & Son, 356 Queen St., Brisbane
(Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
BROKERS IN CANBERRA
T. J. Thompson & Sons, C.B.C. Chambers,
Petrie St., Canberra.
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
2
PER ANNUM
FOR 5 YEARS
6 months
12 months
3 years
El
9 months
2 years
4 years
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman).. F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRIJAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLAS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND. Managing Director. R. A. CATLEY, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
credit squeeze and the lifting of import
restrictions. But directors have always
looked on excessive protection as a bad
thing for the industry and were better
prepared to deal with the new situation
than other companies which had over-
stretched themselves in the hot-house
atmosphere of 1958-59.
To this end the board has always
placed great emphasis on technological
efficiency. Only the most modern and
up-to-date machinery has been installed
in the new spinning mill. Specialised
machinery from all over the world has
been purchased and sometimes adapted
to the company’s own specifications. In
order to gain complete diversifica-
tion through all stages, from raw material
to distribution of the finished product, the
company has investigated the possibility
of growing its own cotton in Australia.
The board feels that it is within the
group's financial ability to grow all its
own requirements.
Directors have taken a realistic view
of the current year’s prospects and do
not forecast any spectacular improvement
However, they have emphasised their
determination to continue expenditure on
design, research and new production
methods and sales promotion.
The 20s. shares are currently selling
at 61s. to give a dividend yield of
4.1 p.c. and an attractive earnings yield
of 10.1 p.c. Last sale of the 20s. prefs.
was at 20s. 6d. a unit. Assets backing
on last consolidated balance-sheet figures
is 545. Id. for the 20s. ords. and £9 9s. Id.
for the £1 prefs.
AUSTRALIAN OIL AND GAS
LARGE ISSUE
C* furred on by the Moonie oil strike—
which now has been officially des-
cribed as the first commercial oil well
in Australia—the Australian Oil and Gas
Corporation Ltd is making an issue
of 2,560,800 ss. ordinary shar^ ', one-for-
two held at March 16, 1962, at 10s. a
unit premium. The issue will lift A.O.G.’s
paid capital by £640,200 to £1,920,600.
Total cash inflow realised by the com-
pany will amount to £1,920,600, including
£1,280,400 in share premiums.
The huge 10s. premium or each new
ss. ordinary share indicates that A.O.G.'s
board intends to exploit fully the splendid
premium opportunity afforded by the
shaiemarket’s buoyant oil hopes follow-
ing the Moonie No. 1 success. A.O.G. has
a 20 p.c. interest in the venture.
At the last sale in Sydney the ss. ords.
fetched 61s. a unit.
FINANCE CORF. OF AUST.
NEW DEBENTURES
FINANCE Corporation of Australia
Ltd is making an issue of medium
and long-term registered first mortgage
debenture stock, with interest rates rang-
ing from 7 p.c. p.a. (five years) to 8
p.c. p.a. (15 years). The previous issue,
which closed on December 13, 1961,
raised £3.9m.
A leading hire-purchase financier based
on South Australia, Finance Corporation
of Australia has a large volume of inter-
state business and is closely connected
with The Bank of Adelaide, which con-
tinues to maintain a 40 p.c. capital
interest in the company. In the year to
June 30, 1961, the company earned a
consolidated net profit of £263,251, rep-
resenting an earning rate of 18 p.c. on
the average paid capital. Net proceeds of
the new debenture issue will be used
“for general purposes.”


A. L. NEViTT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L,. XEVITT. A. C. OISAPEK,
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members o) Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building:,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: "NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761
(4 lines)
r.o. box
No. 1887YV
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Delfin House,
16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building,
150 Queen St,, Melbourne,
67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables:
“Rosdale,” Sydney, Melbourne
or Wollongong.
John N. Robertson, Thompson
and Co.
Members of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS,
Temple Court,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Telephones: 67 6154, 67 6155
Telegrams and Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
SPECULATOR'S DIARY
Monday, February 12
'T'hat was no push Mr Menzies gave
A the share market last week: it was
a real, old-fashioned shove. In fact the
Prime Minister looked suspiciously like
the conjurer who, in a frantic bid to
win his audience, suddenly tosses all his
tricks in the air at once. Let’s just hope
he knows how to handle them all when
they come down again. Anyway, I should
be the last to complain about any man
whose policies have the effect of putting
the Stock Exchange index up 11 points in
a week. And if the unemployed benefit
as swiftly as investors did last week, the
Government shouldn’t have any fears
about the outcome of the next election.
My immediate reaction was to buy
some more B.H.P. shares on the strength
of the 20 p.c. taxation allowance for
money spent on new plant and equip-
ment. This could prove to be a real
bonanza for B.H.P. which is spending a
mere £4O million a year on expansion.
However, I felt that 100 were enough
B.H.P. shares for any man worthy of the
title of a speculator, so I reluctantly
suppressed my desire to buy more.
Instead I snapped up 100 A.C.I. rights
which had been selling in a remarkably
narrow price range since they came on
the market before Christmas. I felt they
were due for a rise now that the issue is
closing. And A.C.I. should be another
of the principal beneficiaries of the 20 p.c.
investment allowance. So I bought 100
at 38s. 3d.
1 was able to pay for these conveni-
ently with the proceeds of my I.CT.
rights which I sold the day that issue
closed at 11s. 9d. The purchase of these
rights proved to be a profitable exercise
(to the extent of £37) and whetted my
appetite for a return engagement with
A.C.I.
My most enthusiastic plunge of the
week was on Automobile and General
Finance. This rich little finance company
has been tempting me for a long while
with its ever-rising earning rate on
capital. But, as so often happens, I’d
done nothing about buying any. Then
last week along came Auto and General’s
half-yearly report announcing that profit
was running at an annual rate of 79 per
cent, to capital! I could contain myself no
longer and bought 400 at 19s. 9d. which
was 3s. 3d. above the previous week’s
closing price. But even at this price the
earnings yield is still 20 per cent, if you
disregard the convertible notes. These
notes don’t convert for another two years
and in the meantime profits should con-
tinue to move ahead steadily, particu-
larly as last December’s big investment in
my old friend Stocks and Holdings has
yet to reflect itself in Auto and General’s
figures. This investment gives Auto and
General 36 p.c. of Stocks and Holding’s
capital and on this basis its share of S. &
H.’s profit last year would have been
about £40,000, thereby lifting its own
earning rate preciously close to 100 per
cent! Here, maybe, is another P.M.U.-
type situation. Of course, Automobile
and General Finance should not be con-
fused with the very much less impressive
Automobile and General Industries.
My final venture of the week was to
order 1000 R. H. Lawrenson rights when
they came on the market for the first time,
today. My interest here largely stemmed
from my success with Mello-lite after it
was swallowed up by Hunter Douglas.
R. H. Lawrenson, a very mediocre little
die casting outfit, has suddenly found its
status greatly enhanced now that half its
capital is owned by Alumasc Ltd, of
England, maker of aluminium castings.
Alumasc itself is a subsidiary of the huge
Consolidated Gold Fields group of com-
panies. R. H. Lawrenson’s own record
is very ordinary but under the new
management its future could be quite
spectacular in the developing aluminium
industry. However, apparently the exist-
ing shareholders are optimistic, too, as no
sellers appeared on the first day of rights’
trading.
To pay for the Auto and General I
sold my Olympic Bowling at 4s. sd. and
also my 300 Pyrox. It occurs to me
that Olympic Bowling could prove to
be one of Marrickville Holdings’ few
mistakes while Pyrox has improved very
little in price over recent months. On
Olympic I lost £l5 which was very neatly
cancelled out by a £l5 profit on Pyrox.
The week’s total profit was, therefore,
£37 and I finished up owing £lB4. Still,
the Government doesn’t seem to be
worrying about where the money is
coming from, so why should 1?
SOLD
400 1.C.1. rights at 11/9 .. £230
400 Olympic Bowling at 4/5 .. £B5
300 Pyrox at 7/- .. ... £lO2
BOUGHT
400 1.C.1. rights at 11/9 .. £230
100 A.C.I. rights at 38/3 .. £195
In the list of shares held this week I
am adopting a reader’s suggestion and
showing the dates on which the various
purchases were made. This has meant
dropping the column showing the “Total
Cost” of each holding but I think the
change is worthwhile. In future the
“Cost Per Share” column will be adjusted
to take account of any new cash or bonus
issues. The current list is:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
300 Hornibrook 4/3/61 23/- 28/6
200 Southern TV 26/6/61 20/- 27/3
400 Derrin Bros 14/8/61 10/- 14/-
400 O’Donnell
Griffin 28/8/61 11/8 16/-
.50 Rothmans 11/0/61 78/9 93/9
200 Shipping News 25/9/61 17/3 22/6
SOO Southgate 6/11/61 8/6 9/-
1,000 United Motels 20/11/61 3/6 4/-
'5OO Western Mining
(contributing) 20/11/61 8/3 12/-
1,000 Harris Holdings 5/12/61 7/- 8/3
200 Beau Monde 8/12/61 25/- 31/6
200 Hunter Douglas 7/12/61 26/- 41/-
500 Fibre Con-
tainers 13/12/61 34/9 38/6
300 Lindeinan (ex
Leo Burin g) 13/12/61 16/11 20/-
1,000 Planet Oil 15/1/62 1/-
100 B.H.P. 24/1/62 64/6 6S/-
400 W. J. Manufac-
turing 24/1/62 11/9 13/-
100 A.C.I. rights 7/2/62 38/3 38/3
400 Auto and General
Finance 8/2/62 19/9 21/-


Out and About:
SPORT
CONTENDERS: LOGICAL AND LITERATE
THE ARTS BOOKS SPORT FOOD ABORIGINALITIES
D° xing entered a new phase in Aus-
** tralia recently with the emergence
of easily the most literate contender for
any title since Gene Tunney. I refer to
“Rocky” Gattellari, who took time out
before his non-title fight on January 22
to write, “This bout is not for the
championship, but for me it has all the
importance of a title fight, because, if I
win, I feel I am morally the champion.”
In a further learned discourse after he
had won in six rounds, “Rocky” wrote,
“The ultimate, of course, would be a
world title shot.” Which is not only
awfully literate but possibly over-
optimistic for a boxer who had just won
his fourth professional fight. The fact
that Mr Gattellari’s command of spoken
English does not match his apparent
ability to write it suggests he should not
be blamed for such far-reaching opinions.
Some cynics claimed to have seen Tunney
holding his Shakespeare upside down
until a helpful photographer righted it.
In other ways, boxing may well have
entered a new phase with the dramatic
arrival of Mr Gattellari. His pulse
stirred by the cheers of 8000 paying
customers, an Australian record for a
fly-weight contest, the manager of Sydney
Stadium, Mr Harry Miller, announced
plans for title fights in three divisions
during February, and cautiously added
that this could give boxing a needed
boost. The “could” was a possibly uncon-
scious commentary on the quality of the
three champions and. or, their opponents,
suggesting that any of the matches might
be well worth the money, but all could
as easily be woeful exhibitions.
The title matches were Cowburn-
Barnes, welters, Read-Hayes, middle-
weights, and Bruce-Gattellari. Almost
immediately, George Barnes declared
that he was a more logical contender for
Peter Read's title than Reg Hayes and
Mr Miller remade that one a tentative
matching, in view of Barnes’ apparent
optimism. Barnes has long been the
most willing fighter in a trade which
badly needs them and the idea of Barnes
as a dual champion could have appealed
to any promoter.
As middleweight champion, Peter
Read has done little more than display
an aptitude for carrying his guard low
and exposing his whiskers to a right
cross, which has been one of Barnes’s
specialities. That no local performer has
tumbled Mr Read conclusively since his
first meet with Clive Stewart ages ago is
a further pointer to the present state of
affairs. In New Zealand last year a
willing American boxer named Johnny
Smith located the weakness and exploited
it to the full in two rounds.
The immediate result of the Barnes-
Cowburn fight was that George Barnes
would not be meeting Peter Read, nor,
it is to be hoped, anyone else. George
looked as well-prepared for this fight as
anyone could be, but when a man short
in both reach and defence loses his
reflex speed, he is best retired. The fight
also proved that a good match will still
come very close to filling Sydney
Stadium. Ringside at 40s. was packed,
and they were standing in the 10s.
bleachers. Only a shortage of 20s.
customers prevented a sellout. And to
achieve one of those in the later “golden
days” of Australian boxing, you had to
match a Carroll and a Hennaberry. One
final thing proven that night was that
Gary Cowburn, in some elements of
style not unlike Hennaberry, who was
present, is a worthy champion,
Cowburn came to the title, as others
had, while Barnes was busy with the
pursuit and defence of the Empire
championship. When they were first
matched last year the dark young
Queenslander clearly felt his mantle
really belonged to George, who could
snatch it back any tick of the ring clock,
Cowburn back-pedalled through four
rounds like a unicyclist caged with a
tiger, weathered the mauling and,
towards the end of the contest and still
on his feet, surprised Barnes and the
crowd by outfighting both fear and its


object in enough rounds to be given a
heartily criticised decision.
This time Cowburn simply took up
where he had left off a few months before.
He had predicted a knockout, and pro-
ceeded to make it good in the most
workmanlike manner.
When the end did come in the sixth
round, Cowburn was hitting Barnes at
will around the head and George was
doggedly refusing to go down.
Patrick began a count, made a quick
supplicating gesture at Barnes’s corner,
received the nod from Jim Barker who
was already on the apron and came
between the fighters and touched Cow-
burn’s crinkly hair. If life would show
the game 'uns as much mercy!
George swung towards his corner and
punched the air. It was a gesture of
bitter disappointment and memorable as
the last punch George Barnes
would throw in a stadium ring. “I was all
right,” he said into microphones and to
everyone who would listen. And in the
“golden days” of boxing he would have
been, if it is all right to be knocked
silly after 15 years in the game.
If boxing had needed a boost, it had
received it, and if George had to go he
had gone over the hill fighting every
inch of the journey.
Perhaps the man to feel sorry for is
Gary Cowburn. He is a boxer in the
classic tradition of stand-up glove
fighters, and one who has proved he can
learn from every match and enter the
ring much better for it next time. But
where can he go from now? There are
no good welterweights in sight. Cow-
burn has displayed a right hand which
could easily tumble Peter Read and give
him the middleweight crown —and the
obligation to fight some of the almost
retired but willing to come back war-
horses in that division. Fighting “take
one to give one” middleweights would be
an unfortunate future for such a promis-
ing boy. Cowburn symbolises the state
of affairs which has blighted the noble
sport here periodically since Hugh D.
made the stadium and Tommy Burns
took the inevitable with a gameness still
evident on occasion at Rushcutter Bay.
There are seldom enough good boys
in any division. Good boys with the
lighter gloves are hard to find anywhere,
and on a population basis we do rather
too well, frequently with worthy champ-
ions in three or four divisions where
most countries have perhaps one, who is
a national idol and who is not going to
fall at home to a savage Australian or
travel to a beating for money he can
pick up as easily in a variety of less
dangerous ways. Unfortunately (because
Italian boxers are a natural drawcard in
Australia for now), this applies to Italy,
too. This leaves only the Americans,
and if they are good they demand sums
of £20,000 and up, which would require
prices likely to stop the £2 ringsiders in
their tracks.
Also, the better American fighters are
most likely to be too sharp and experien-
ced for our boys, and they have the same
problem abroad. In the 1930’s we were
able to prevent some of our champions
from ruining one another in out-of-divi-
sion fights by importing Americans on
the way up or down, but now there are
fewer of those available and most have
strange ideas involving return air fares
for an entourage worthy of a Sinatra.
Only an occasional maverick such as
Freddy Dawson, bustling around the
world because he cannot get the cham-
pion at home, comes on the local scene,
with disastrous consequences.
So we return to Gary Cowburn and
his symptomatic problem, one which was
equally so in the “golden” ’3os, when
there were two excellent middleweights,
one unique welter, a burgeoning light-
weight or two, and the usual 100 pre-
liminary boys with perhaps one potential
champion among them.
Boxing is receiving a boost this month
from two good matches, the one recently
decided and the Bruce-Gattellari return,
which could make another attendance
record for the little ’uns. “Rocky” may
win his fifth professional fight and then
will have to look beyond Australia for
the sixth, which could be sad for him.
Boxing will slump again and Hugh D.
will revolve in his grave to the tunes of
the Twist and possibly the Slop. In a
year or two another good welter may
appear and, if Cowburn is not already
defeated by time, inaction, or overweight
fights, boxing will have another brief
summer to the further surprise of those
who had buried it. There will always be
as many willing to see the capsule drama
inherent in glove fighting as to follow
the arts of the audible performers. Within
the 59-minute potential of a champion-
ship fight, if the opponents are worthy,
the drama may embrace such elements as
conflict between age and youth, the
tactical problems posed by height, reach
and style, nervousness and assurance,
burning courage and the quieter kind
tempered with caution, and always the
fine old element of sheer, blind chance.
The main danger to boxing does not lie
in lack of public interest, with or due to
a dearth of willing boys in good times,
because the £lOOO-2000 a match is still
good for the best of times, but in a pro-
longed shortage of the nearly-good boys
required to keep the stadiums open while
the champions are being developed. And
it is an odd thought that without Messrs
Sinatra, Rydell, Checker and their
enraptured followers the stadiums could
have closed for lack of business at almost
any time during the past decade.
As “Rocky” might put it, this is
indeed a matter upon which to speculate
when considering the present state of the
noble art in Australia.
FRAND ROBERTS
FOOD
GASTRONOMY IN HOBART
\lt7E all have our own idea of “the good
old days”, I suppose, and in my
life the good old days wenen’t so long
ago, 1956-58 to be exact: the pre-beat
days when we were pretty broke and
could still unashamedly enjoy ourselves
(now we’re just as broke but there seems
an obligation to be sad about it).
Those were the days when the austere
Melbourne Museum of Modern Art of
Australia of today was simply the Gallery
of Contemporary Art and turned on
free grog, imported records and the best
conversation in town every Friday night
for those in the know ; the days when
Pat Collins was instructing Melbourne
on how to eat quality informally at
Brummel’s restaurant in South Yarra
and Gwen Potter, who managed the
gallery upstairs, had the social set and the
arties staggering up the steepest, narrow-
est stairs in the town (I can never forget
the sight of Melbourne’s leading patron
of the arts wedging a bulk as great as the
Prime Minister’s though of a more
approachable disposition into that
narrow confinement) to Sunday morning
openings, at which Pat himself would
be secreted in the quietest corner with a
bottle of ’54 claret for his mates.
You can then imagine with what
pleasure I looked Pat up at his cellar
bistro in Hobart recently. His surround-
ings now are more impressive, his non-
chalant geniality has more space to per-
meate, but he caters for much the same
kind of people and he is the same superb
host, though his sense of humor seems
a shade more laconic.
On entering the bistro, the customer
faces a bar appointed in slate and
copper, backed by Japanese wallpaper
and displaying some fine glassware. To
the right and behind, the bar opens on to
a buffet and kitchen with a barbecue
stove for charcoal grills conveniently
placed so that the customer may
supervise the cooking to the last char.


Immediately to the right of the entrance
is the dining area ; the floor is of black
and brass strips with Italian mosaic tiles,
the chairs are wicker, the tables cork, the
walls are lined with tea-tree and carry
paintings by Clifton Pugh, Jon Molvig
and Tasmanians Edith Holmes and
Florence Rodway. There are two pieces
of sculpture, one by Clem Meadmore, the
other by Matcham Skipper, an Elthamite
best-known for his jewellery, whose only
city exhibition was at Brummel’s.
It was hard to reconcile this sophisti-
cated though friendly decor with Hobart,
as its unpretentious excellence is far in
advance of the general run of ideas in
that city. I began to tremble, thinking
of my limited pocket, but a glance at
the menu reassured me. The house
wines were a normal Is. 6d. a glass and the
dishes just below comparable Melbourne
prices and quite a bit under Sydney’s.
The cook, Albert, is a Frenchman—
Provencal, Pat assured me and it
appears that members of a French Antarc-
tic expedition recently in Hobart were so
impressed with a special sweet he made
for them that they have presented it to
the Societe Culinaire Franqaise de Paris
for inclusion on its list of classic dishes.
The bistro is the only Australian res-
taurant to be so honored and Pat is very
proud indeed. He regretted being unable
to Jet me sample the sweet, “Antarctique
Grand Marnier,” but its basic ingredient
is orange quarters marinated in Grand
Marnier for 24 hours.
Much to my surprise, Pat suggested we
call in at his favorite after-hours stamp-
ing-ground deep in the heart of the Latin
Quarter. In the cab I mused over the
idea of Hobart having either an after-
hours joint or a Latin Quarter but, as
usual, Pat was right. The cafe, the
Venezia, at the north end of Elizabeth
Street, was in appearance like many
Italian places in Carlton or East Sydney,
but the unabashed Mediterranean
ebullience and warmth of mine host Ivo
were exceptional.
Over a Turkish coffee I asked Pat how
business went and he, off-guard and
candid under the impact of the coffee,
admitted that it was “not as easy to get
across to Hobartians the idea of quality
eating combined with informality” as
it had been in Melbourne. But any
further discussion was curtailed by the
arrival of Hobart’s “first character,”
painter, playwright, poet, scriptwriter,
teacher, etc., etc., Alan Frost, and a
tribe of supporters who also stamp the
ground at the Venezia, along with the
lower echelons, university students,
nurses, and the usual night-riders of the
city.
ADRIAN RAWLINS
ABORIGINALITIES
FRIENDS WITH FIDELE
A few weeks ago 1 rescued a small
sun lizard from a cat. The cat
apparently didn't know what to do with
it. It was unharmed, even still had its
tail.
1 sat down at my desk and let it walk
over my arm while I did a few sketches.
I was at once amazed by its agility and
unreptilelike characteristics. Its legs were
very supple and frequently resembled
most human stances as it inquisitively
explored the folds in my sleeve, or looked
up at my face, or down at my moving
hand.
When I had examined it thoroughly
and done several quick sketches (it never
stayed still long enough for me to do a
detailed study) I coaxed him on to the
desk. I couldn’t determine the sex, but
somehow it suggested the male rather
than the female, where it continued,
rather cautiously now, its examination of
the human paraphernalia.
I named him Fidele, but the next time
I came to my desk he was nowhere to
be seen ; and over the next few days I
forgot about him.
Then, as I was looking through some
papers, I came upon him curled in a
semi-circle. His head shot up, alert,
watching the covering paper I had
removed, then he jerkily moved for fresh
cover.
I went outside to look for a worm,
returning with a two-inch specimen
which looked monstrous as it wriggled
convulsively in front of him. Fidele
hesitated, glanced up at my hand, then,
carefully lifting each leg and putting it
down again with even greater care, he
slithered slowly, smoothly, flat against
the desk towards the worm: he fixed his
right eye on it; the worm was now still.
Fidele stopped when he was almost
touching it and slid out his little hungry
tongue to taste his potential meal. Then,
with admirable deftness and obvious
experience, he took a step backwards,
raised his front half, twisted his head
sideways, opened his mouth wide and
plunged forwards and downwards, snap-
ping his little jaws tight about the worm.
The worm seemed to be expecting it
and broke neatly in two —one piece
wriggled, looped and jumped away ; the
other twisted only feebly in Fidele’s iron
grasp. Fidele, after a short pause, began
shaking and hammering until the piece
stopped moving. He let go, half-turned
away and, politely and vigorously, wiped
his mouth on the desk. Then he began
chewing it solemnly and systematically
from one end to the other. Still chew-
ing, but with increasingly bigger, more
voracious bites, he slid the whole longi-
tudinally down his throat; a more
serious, formal procedure.
From then on Fidele got his daily
worm along with a varied diet of insects
and meat. He always treated his food
as an elusive quarry ; hence an innocent
piece of bacon would have to put up
with the humiliation of being stalked,
pounced upon and battered to death.
I made Fidele a box with a front and
back door from both of which he could
behold the outside world. He drank
water from drops I put on the desk.
He seemed fascinated with these drops,
often walking round and round them, his
right eye fixed and admiring, before
immersing his nose and drinking with a
slow, catlike motion.
But he deserted me after a fortnight or
so ; my nomenclature had sadly let me
down.
DAVID SCHLUNKE
"Let's make this a Dutchman's. You use your expense account
and I'll use mine."


THEATRE
A NOBLE RUIN
Shipwreck. Douglas Stewart. Eliza-
bethan Theatre Trust. Union
Theatre. Sydney.
The Little Singers of Paris. Sydney.
Luisillo Dance Company. Her
Majesty's. Sydney.
TTo this critic’s eye there was little
doubt last week at the opening per-
formance of “Shipwreck” that for most
of the audience this was something
approaching a great play. But, by God,
we had to fight hard towards this convic-
tion! Nothing was done by the producer
or the designer to let us in on the secret,
and very little was done by most of the
acting company.
It was left to Mr John Gray, one of
our best actors, and Mr Douglas Stewart,
cetrainly our best playwright, to show us
that we were indeed looking at the stuff
of greatness. “Shipwreck” is a fierce
play ; it takes a classic closed situation—-
a desperate shipwreck of a motley collec-
tion of 17th-century merchants, migrants,
seamen, and paints out in blazing colors
the lusts, passions, greeds and cowardices
of such people under pressure. Lack of
water leads to mass murder, lack of
women to busy prostitution, surplus of
gold and jewels to greedy dreams of
strange future lives in Spain for the
leaders of the mob.
Stewart's dialogue carries the richness
of the story with supple ease, and the
exotic characters carry a deadly convic-
tion. The essential point of Stewart’s
play is that we are all shipwrecked ; that
these creatures of his represent all men.
There is the terrifying awareness that the
audience is watching—but for the grace
of God—their own selves. This ultimate
sort of belief is the sure mark of first-
rate writing, and if at times the clear out-
line of the characters wavered, or the
motives behind their actions showed as
inadequate, there was an all-too-ready
reason at hand in the extraordinarily
amateurish production by Mr Henri
Safran.
As chief executive of the Elizabethan
Trust, Mr Neil Hutchison seems to have
had special feelings towards some of his
former radio and television producers, in
handing them some choice productions
to achieve for the Trust. Without excep-
tion, this confidence has been utterly
misplaced—Mr R. Menmuir’s lamentable
staging of “Candida” comes to mind, for
example—and now Mr Safran has shown
sad limitations in several fundamental
qualities of the stage producer. Lor one,
Mr Safran is unable to handle grouping
and movement with even an amateur
skill, let alone achieve those high
moments of meaning and tension through
the use of space and motion that are the
trademark of the producer who knows hi>
job.
Mr Safran also allowed the designer
to swamp the proper action of his actors
with useless setting, and let the same
designer make some of his actors appear
ridiculous in costumes utterly off-key.
He also allowed several amateur actresses
to be cast in the play (I assume this was
his field of discretion) and let them
-—as degraded prostitutes—appear so
clean, shining and full of bounce as to be
laughable. Miss Janice Copland, to take
but one example, was allowed to display
her fine auburn hair as if she had just
come from the hands of a master coiffeur.
These points may appear trivial, one by
one ; added together they make a word
—amateur. They certainly do not indi-
cate the level of professional skill that
theatregoers have the right to expect from
the Trust.
Yet the play is so strong, and some
of the acting was so good, that the even-
ing was not to be missed. Mr John Gray,
as Cornelius, the supercargo left in charge
of the shipwrecked community by Com-
modore Pelsart (who sailed to Java for
help), gives one of the best performances
seen here for some time. This was acting ;
it had guts, range, voice and fine
authority. Miss Margo Lee, who played
the desirable wife of a wealthy Dutch
merchant murdered at Cornelius’s in-
structions so that he can have the wife
for himself, suffered cruelly from lack of
production—fussy, repetitive and mean-
ingless movements, cliches of gesture,
aimless changes of rhythm and intensity:
all these ought to have been put right in
such an important role by the producer.
Miss Lee has done so much better at
other times that I cannot join Sydney
critics who have pasted her ; I think this
is clearly a case where production, and
not acting, is at fault.
Mr Desmond Rolfe gave a beauti-
fully professional performance as the
Commodore’s butler, a man clinging to
his urban values, cleaning his silver and
crystal for ruffians, but being revenged
at last. Mr Grant Taylor made too brief
a mark with his playing of the Dutch
merchant—here was miscasting if you
like. The power and skill of Mr Taylor
ought to have been lavished on one of
the two roles of the seamen's leaders—in
which neither Mr Ron Haddrick nor Mr
Edward Brayshaw was at all happy. Of
the other ladies, only Miss Mary Rey-
nolds, as Rose Harman, a woman whose
husband was brutally killed by the muti-
neers, and who would not accept the role
of prostitute—her reward being mass
rape—had any life and pathos.
A boys’ choir —The Little Singers of
Paris—now already departed, and
Luisillo's dance company, from Spain,
have been making brief appearances in
Sydney. I have no idea why The Little
Singers of Paris were brought here —
there are Australian choirs demonstrably
superior, and with the right encourage-
ment they could perhaps be coaxed into
some concert appearances. There was
lamentable vulgarity in many of the
arrangements used by the French chorus
—Mozart and folk-song suffering equally.
Luisillo returns with that same fiery
devotion to his art that Sydney recog-
nised before—and this critic came away
with the same feeling as before, that the
company is at its best in the apparently
authentic folk-dances and folk-songs, and
that Luisillo is straining his medium
grossly with the “expressive” ballets in
his programmes. One could argue with
strength that dancing has only two proper
fields —sexual desire, and the joy of sur-
plus energy transmuted into play. When
Luisillo is moving in these areas he is
unique and wonderful, and the company
should not be overlooked in this short
season at Her Majesty’s.
KEVON DEMP
PITY ABOUT SHAKESPEARE
Macbeth. Union Theatre. Melbourne.
"PACED with what must honestly be
acknowledged as an inadequate cast,
John Sumner’s production of “Macbeth”
attempts to overcome the problem with
swiftness of movement and splendor of
setting. The result is not, and could not
be, wholly successful, but it compels
admiration.
The production is indeed most
ambitious. Anne Fraser's set, while being
successfully reminiscent of an Elizabe-
than stage, manages at the same time to
give an impression of the savage period
in which the bloody deeds take place.
The costuming is especially meticulous
and apt. A minor triumph over spatial
limitations is achieved by the creation of
a dozen entrances and exits, which are
essential to the extraordinary rapidity of
the movement. Drums beat overhead,
messengers charge down the aisles and
collapse on the apron, furniture is
whisked away in the obscurity, spirits
materialise on the walls, and all manner
of business of great moment is conducted
under the lights of the side exits. The
excitement, in short, is uninterrupted. My
only disappointment in production detail
was the absence of foliage in Birnam
Wood as it crept down the aisle.
But the excitement would have been


Visit Adelaide next March for Australia’s greatest programme of
MUSIC . OPERA . DRAMA . DANCE . JAZZ . ART & PAGEANTRY
The Second
ADELAIDE FESTIVAL
March 17-31, 1962
>nr , 5 .
v' * C.Z- %■ 1 * -#>■•
* •jtT* ife \ . * .
m
4
k
: fe>
Full Programmes and Booking Order
Forms are available now from
All Airlines and Travel Agents
The South Australian Government Tourist Bureau:
28 Martin Place, Sydney, N.S.W.
8 Royal Arcade, Melbourne, Victoria.
18 King William Street, Adelaide, S.A.
or from the Festival Office, G.P.O. Box 892, Adelaide, S.A.
OF ARTS
» The London Philharmonic Orchestra
» Choir oi the Royal Christchurch Musical
Society
* Yehudi and Hephzibah Menuhin
> Baskhar & Company, Indian Dancers
plus
« A season of 4 Operas by The Elizabethan
Theatre Trust Opera Company.
• 4 new drama productions including
the Australian Premiere of Archibald
MacLeish’s Pulitzer Prize play, “J. 8.”
» Return concerts by the Dave Erubeok
Quartet.
BOOKINGS
NOW
OPEN
greater had there been more point in the
headlong rush, had Macbeth shown more
purpose in his plunge to doom. Instead,
his fate seemed more a misfortune than
a tragedy. Despite some fine moments
and an intelligent reading of his lines,
Frank Thring did not give Macbeth the
strength and brutality the part demands,
and the pity of the tragedy was, in con-
sequence, diminished. Sheila Florance’s
Lady Macbeth had the great merit of
clarity, but she, too, played at a low
tone which often bordered more on
nagging than on Satanic inspiration.
A number of the lesser parts were
extremely well played, especially Macduff
(Clement McCallim) and Malcolm
(Reginald Livermore). Some, however,
were victims of the pace, and scarcely had
a chance to be identified even by the
great majority of the audience who knew
the work by heart.
Shakespearean productions probably
never satisfy everyone, and we should not
let the weaknesses which someone will
find blind us to the value of productions
like this. “Macbeth” is commonly set
for school study, and must be seen, if
the study of literature is to be worth any-
thing. I would recommend this unre-
servedly to students for the breadth and
competence of the production and the
lucidity of the interpretation. It's a pity
there isn't more Shakespeare prescribed
for schools.
BILL HANNAN
ART
FREE STATEMENT
Modern Japanese Woodblock Prints.
Argus Gallery. Melbourne.
Japanese art deservedly enjoys great
popularity and has gained a number
of expert followers in this country. Yet
for all the enthusiasm of those who have
travelled and admired, very little original
work has been seen here. International
exhibitions, of course, are very difficult to
arrange—even interstate ones are not
easy—and they can be killed forever by
a feeble buyers’ response. Indeed, one
wonders whether the Government should
not take a leading part in arranging or
guaranteeing exhibitions from the
countries we so desperately need to under-
stand. The visual arts may not seem of
much moment to us at present, but in the
case of Japan they appear to be a most
important aspect of national life and
perhaps a key to an understanding of the
spirit of the people.
The Argus Gallery has opened 1962
with a large exhibition of modern Japan-
ese woodblock prints. It is a splendid
collection, representing more than 40
artists. On a technical level the works
are so good as to be frequently surpris-
ing, whilst the range of subject, mood
and approach is extraordinarily wide. To
me their most obvious and exciting beauty
arises from the love of natural things
which they so clearly communicate —as
in Amano's “Flying,” or his four studies
titled “Morning Moon.” Love of fine
and beautiful detail permeates nearly all
the work, whether it be abstract, fanciful
or impressionist.
Formally, this is art of a high order.
Strength of design, which to the abstrac-
tionists is of paramount importance, is no
less evident in the serene or moody studies
of nature. For all their finesse and
polished detail, the general effect is one
of free and imposing statement. While
some, like Shima, concentrate on the
special effects of the block and the grain,
others, like Takahashi, create brilliantly
colored, striking abstractions which at
first glance seem to be bold and complex
paintings in a much freer medium.
Naturally, given the medium, there is no
calligraphic work, but those who have
been attracted to this infinitely subtle


ART COMPETITION
Closing Date 30th April, 1962
Prizes totalling £250
Also Junior Section,
under 21, £5O
To mark the opening of the new
Council Chambers of the
Blue Mountains City Council
For details write to
TOWN CLERK,
Blue Mountains City Council,
Great Western Highway,
Katoomba, N.S.W.
style should find the three pieces of
Hakumaki interesting extensions of the
use of characters.
No review can give an adequate
impression of the variety, craftsmanship
and beauty of these woodcuts. The
exhibition should be seen. It demon-
strates beyond argument that art can be
delicate, highly sophisticated and in
impeccable taste without suffering any
dimunition in strength and without losing
touch with the simplest elements of
creation.
BILL HANNAN
MYRIAD PINNACLES
Various Artists. Moreton Galleries.
Brisbane.
'T'he present show at the Moreton Gal-
leries presents about 30 works in oils
and watercolor. It is dominated by three
artists. Sam Fullbrook has a work,
“Kimberley Ranges,” which gets as near
abstraction as possible without completely
losing its representational character. It is
easily the best abstract I have seen in
Brisbane and this is due to the wonderful
depth of feeling for the subject and its
implications. It shows a myriad pin-
nacles of mountain peaks extending to a
limitless horizon and the vastness, the
loneliness, the melancholy and menace
of the north-west desert country, in earth
colors, mainly tones of umber splashed
with a crimson light from a far-off sunset
in orange-yellow; a superb concept
beautifully done.
George Lawrence shows a nice land-
scape, “Coolangatta,” with a foreground
of ocean and a background of hill
studded with houses done in a cubist-
pointillist pattern. It is most effectively
done with all Lawrence’s integrity and
skill. A new artist, James Wigley is a
little crude but is thoughtful, and his
“Aboriginal Children” demands excited
attention. Native children are dancing
in a long, narrow desert gorge and make
a sympathetic pattern against undulating
dark earth. It is all rather sombre but
indicates fine feeling.
An early Hans Heysen, a couple of
competent Joshua Smiths and works,
technically adequate, by John Rowell,
Ray Crooke and James Jackson complete
a pleasant show.
J. V. DUHIG
FILMS
GO LIGHTLY IN THE WORLD
Breakfast at Tiffany’s. Prince Edward.
Sydney.
’The film is lush, sophisticated and gay:
1 an ideal night’s entertainment, if you
want to feel a little above it all,
nicrry and uncritical. “Breakfast
at Tiffany’s” is a delight because
Audrey Hepburn is delightful; not
because it has a good story, or superb
direction, or anything untoward that can
be regarded as true romance or high
comedy. Instead, there is just a girl with
no figure and high cheekbones, no inhibi-
tions and a lovely voice. Audrey playing
herself is worth anyone’s entry money.
Capote’s story is second-rate corn, but
based on fascination. A woman without
morals is always fascinating ; especially
if one does not love her. It is not even
original: Zola and Isherwood have done
better. Isherwood’s Sally Bowles is
more captivating in prose, and was better
done on the screen. But Audrey Hep-
burn is Audrey Hepburn, today’s Garbo,
setter of style and fashion, incurably
impish and zestful, a feast for the eyes
and a cure for the sad heart. Nobody
else matters: good though the supporting
actors are, performing (like her) mean-
ingless trivia in a world without meaning.
The whole film is about nothing, and is
more tragic than funny ; but it tries to
be funny, fitfully. The fun lies in lies,
in parties and popcorn. It is about the
desperate, trying to be amused. They
are not amused, and seldom amusing ;
but Hepburn is. As the story says, she
is a “genuine phoney.”
The supporting programme is a mixed
bag. Don’t miss the colorful last short,
“Spring in Scandinavia,” which is photo-
graphically beautiful enough to carry a
sloppily sentimental narration. Few
travelogues have looked better, or
sounded worse.
ANTON VOGT
MUSIC
CARE FOR DETAIL
Orchestral Concert. Victorian Sym-
phony Orchestra. Melbourne.
The new season’s music opened in Mel-
■*- bourne with a series of concerts from
the works of Mozart and Bela Bartok.
Of this series only the first had been
given when we went to press, and it
struck a level which was pleasant but not
excitingly good.
Charles Mackerras is evidently a con-
ductor of talent and enthusiasm, and his
playing showed an impressive care for
detail set in a perspective of sound dis-
cipline. But his youth stood against him
in point of consistency. In the opening
movement of the piano concerto (Mozart
K 453), details of shape and phrasing
which received careful attention were set
side by side with instances of oversight
-—witness the perfunctory dynamic of the
strings which echoed the woodwind.
Something similar occurred after interval
in the Bartok “Concerto for Orchestra,”
though here it may have been a matter
of policy. This was a vigorous perform-
ance with plenty of bite and incision in
the more emphatic moments of the score,
but it was hard to see why Mr Mackerras
should so underplay the lyricism of the
fourth movement.
Fou Ts'ong, soloist in the Mozart con-
certo, enjoyed a deserved but still quali-
fied success. He gave us a well-integrated
view of the work as a unit —rational,
unforced, and without idiosyncrasy. This
coolness suited the music, as it generally
does suit Mozart, though an occasional
loss of distinctness in percussion tended
to blur the focus of the performance.
And, for my taste, the pianist’s quantity
of tone was too uniform, particularly in
the slow movement, where a greater
dynamic range could have underlined to
better effect the dramatic contrast which
seems to be bound up with Mozart’s
sudden leaps of pitch on the keyboard.
KENNETH HINCE


THE RED PAGE
STABBED ANY GOOD WIVES LATELY?
By HUGH ATKINSON
’T'he line that divides egomania and
courage is almost invisibly thin. In
this strange collection of stories, articles,
preachments, poems, plays, and extracts
from novels in progress ; in the “advert-
isements” through which the writer dis-
cusses himself and directs our attention
to his fragments, we are offered. Mailer
naked, or at most in his BVDb. and
certainly to blazes with a jockstrap. The
reader will decide, according to his
prejudices, whether this is courage or ego-
mania.
Much of the content of “Advertise-
ments for Myself” continues the bayonet
charge on American sexual morals which
Mailer began in “Barbary Shore” and
“The Deer Park.” Like Henry Miller,
Mailer sees America as an airconditioned
nightmare, a snake-pit of rotten values
in which creative energy is bombed,
blasted, crippled and seduced by bland
men with pink faces and fat backsides.
It is Mailer’s role to remove the Ameri-
can cancer by the therapy of shock. In
the operating theatre of his mind, Mailer
puts on the patient's pain as well as the
surgeon's robe At his elbow is Mailer
the anaesthetist and the instruments are
passed to him by Nurse Mailer.
It is not remarkable that this multiple
role-playing proved a cruel burden.
Superfically, it would seem that Mailer has
alternated between total responsibility
and total irresponsibility. His intuitions
seem to be cultist. He is something of a
Marxist, has been militant as a liberal and
a socialist and finally came home to him-
self in the philosophy of Hip.
The excitements of Mailer’s book, to
this reviewer, are his long articles in de-
fence of the Hipster, particularly in the
brilliant “White Negro.” Like most far-
out theologising, these articles will be read
m Australia mostly with distaste. There
are more than enough bland men with
pink faces and fat backsides here. A
self-confessed user of whisky, marihuana,
benzedrine and seconal (Lush, Pot,
Benny and Seccy) might be all right in
his way, but would you like him to marry
your daughter? A man so obsessed
with novelising that, like Beaudelaire and
Rimbaud, he is ready to pursue the
apocalyphc' vision and the apocalyptic
orgasm by torturing his mind and
nervous system into new patterns can only
expect to be crucified by the respectable.
(Is it courage or egomania?)
Mailer’s fascination for Hip seems
rooted in a number of instincts. If this
reviewer is right (Hal Porter will please
note the term used is “reviewer,” not
“critic” or “cricket” as Dylan Thomas
used to say) Mailer is essentially a cultist.
Hip provided him W'ith a new' cause. It
also provided a new role to act, the first
theologian of Hip. After the bruises
Mailer had taken about “The Deer
Park” (sordid ; crummy, moronic
mindlessness ; golden garbage heap;
disgusting ; exasperating ; junk ; undis-
criminating) Hip further provided a refuge
and a defiance. (If you treat me like
an Outsider, I’ll be one. Lush, Pot
Benny, Apocalyptic Orgasms, here I
come). Further, Hip promised something
for his craft. Mailer says: “What makes
a novelist great is that he illumines each
line of his work with the greatest intensity
of experience. One thing about Hip you
have to admit is that the Hipster lives
in a state of extreme awareness and, so,
objects and relations that most people
take for granted become terribly charged
for him”.
Mailer means that the Hipster enters
this state when he has swung with the
Pot, since Hip and marihuana are insep-
arable. This is a trap. The “state” is
often notional. The objects and relations
that become “terribly charged” for the
Hipster are often those which he, the
Hipster, would be better to take for
granted. There is reason to suppose that
this has happened to Mailer. It is not
unfair to recall that Mailer made world
headlines, for the first time since “The
Naked and the Dead”, by wounding his
wife with a knife after a Hipster’s party.
This act of violence has been a more
effective “advertisement” than any in the
book.
With the bit fairly in his teeth Mailer
tells an Interviewer: “And I think there
is one single burning pinpoint in the
vision in Hip; it's that God is in danger
of dying...l believe Hip conceives of
mans fate being tied up with God's
fate. God is no longer all powerful.
The moral consequences of this are not
only staggering but they're thrilling,
because moral experience is intensified
rather than diminished ... I think that
the particular God we can conceive of is a
God whose relationship to the universe
we cannot divine ; that is, how enormous
He is in the scheme of the universe we
can’t begin to say. But almost certainly,
He is not all powerful. He exists as a
W'arring element in a divided universe,
and we are part of—perhaps the most
important part of—his great expres-
sion .. . perhaps he is trying to impose
upon the universe His conception of
being against other conceptions of being
very much opposed to his.”
If this is the squeezing of six years
putting on the Pot, it disappoints. Lenin
said it on vodka: “As man gets better so
do his Gods”. And some Christians take
it as gospel that there is a palpable Satan
at issue with palpable God and that it
is through our lives and minds that the
scales are weighted.
There are many curiosities in “Adver-
tisements for Myself”. Not the least
of which are the extraordinary efforts to
w'hich the writer goes in explaining away
the many hurts to his self-esteem. There
is a section of two pages in which he
worries away at analysing why a book of
his, with a rather weird inscription, which
he sent Hemingway, was returned by
Papa unopened. These justifications
don’t convince, really. It’s rather like
an ostrich hiding his head in the seman-
tics. A sick liver gets most of the blame
for “The Deer Park.” There are fifteen
references to Mailer’s liver in the book.
In case his position should be misunder-
stood, Mailer makes it clear in the pro-
logue. He says: “What I was trying to
say was simply the ar«* killing us.”
Advertisements for the Reviewer
Listen Norm, I’ve had a busted gut for
four years and a hangover for twenty.
* Advertisements For Myself. Norman
Mailer. Andre Deutsch. 265.


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. “D,” Box 2(i7t, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
EARN A
SPARE-TIME INCOME
BY YOUR PEN!
Learn Story Writing, Freelance Journa-
lism, Radio/TV Scriptwriting, etc., by
excellent correspondence training
through STOTT S, and learn in your
spare time as a writer.
Write today for free Prospectus.
159 Flinders Fane, Melbourne; 149 Castle-
reagh St., Sydney; 290 Adelaide St.,
Brisbane; 21 tirenfell St., Adelaide;
22 Howard St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON -
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
AGE 8402
Neither would be proper excuse for a
bad book I might write. Get off your
liver’s back. The are not killing me
and a few others I know although they
bruise us up a bit. What the are
killing is themselves. Stand clear and
let them swing with it. If you get up
close you’re done for They’ll pull you
under all right. They are trying to save
themselves.
BAXTER ABROAD
Howrah Bridge and Other Poems.
James K. Baxter. Oxford Uni-
versity Press. 17s. 6d.
T still think James K. Baxter is the
best New Zealand poet, although this
book doesn't give a particularly convinc-
ing demonstration of his power. For one
thing, only if he does a little quiet detec-
tive work will the reader learn that it
is a sort of “Selected Poems,” Vol. 11,
a successor (and alternative?) to “In Fires
of No Return.” For another, the early
poems reprinted in it are not well chosen.
Some of them go back to the volume he
published in 1944, when he was a very
young poet ; and they are full of the
rhetorical strivings of a youth who was
not to become an accomplished poet until
some years later. Altogether, it was not
a happy idea to republish them.
These earlier poems, which compose
the first half of the book, raise an inter-
esting query. Baxter has long been
praised as a latter-day disciple of Yeats,
an exalted self-questioner declaiming his
search for a healing myth ; but perhaps
his true poetic strength does not lie in
that strain in him, but in the strain of
tough, “objective,” dramatic comment on
other people’s lives, a comment often
shaped into poetry by simple ballad-
rhythms and a popular idiom.
Which has the more power. Baxter
limber or Baxter terse?
(a)
There in the ever-naked east remain
The gentle antelopes, a race undying,
Who daylong wander on the autumn
plain
Where the ripe grasses wake at noon
and tremble,
By winds fulfilled, regretting not
their spring.
(“The Antelopes”)
(b)
No woman’s pleasure did I feel
Under the hazel tree
When heavy as a sack of meal
The Black Man mounted me,
But cold as water from a dyke
His seed that quickened me.
(“Evidence at the Witch Trials”)
My own preference is strongly for the
second ; and I think readers may find
Baxter’s early strength displayed not in
the romantic conventionality of his much-
anthologised pieces but in the flare and
hardness of such poems as “The
Morgue,” “Wild Bees,” “Thoughts of a
Dying Calvinist,” “The Fisherman,”
“Evidence at the Witch Trials” and “A
Rope for Harry Fat.”
The second and longer section con-
tains poems chiefly from his recent
journey through Asia. These exhibit the
combination of fascination, pity and
bemusedness which is usual among
Western poets encountering that milieu.
But Baxter directs his perceptions more
firmly than most, refuses to let his life-
long themes and preoccupations be
swamped by the tide of trivially exotic
sense-data. Asia for him is not simply
a waking-dream, but an arena of self-
discovery, and hence of good and evil:
In a room taken for the night
Sluicing the chest and thighs. Dressed
In loose pyjamas. Lying
Insomniac under the giant fan.
I knew the undesired accomplice
Some sky or water demon
Twisting the locks of the mind.
Despite an expected, an almost inevit-
able, monotony of perception and accent,
these late poems are much more tightly
organised than they appear. And,
although their rhythms are often un-
enterprising, they show a growing free-
dom from mere rhetoric, an increasing
capacity to grapple with the reality of
oneself not apart from, but within, the
reality of the observed scene. If Baxter
can join this new objectivity with his
old free-flowing energy, he may become
an important poet on a more than local
scale. I think his chances excellent.
VINCENT BUCKLEY
SICK LOVE
Ice Cold River. Ruth France. Con-
stable. 225. 6d.
The Clydesiders. Hugh Munro. Mac-
donald. lbs.
Key to the Door. Alan Sillitoe. W. H.
Allen. 18s.
Wonderful Clouds. Francoise Sagan.
John Murray. 10s. 6d.
The Plane Trees. Monique Lange.
John Calder. 15s. 6d.
“Tce Cold River”, a regional novel
A from the pen of New Zealand writer
Ruth France, has as its setting the Canter-
bury Plains where Waimakarira, the
river of the title, plays the Hardyesque
role of a giant protagonist looming
threateningly over the destinies of Mrs
France’s characters.
Members of the Lewis clan gather to-
gether to celebrate Christmas and are
perceived through the eyes of Julie, who
has the wincing sensibility that somehow
seems related more to nervous disorder
than to feminity—a robust thing, after
all.
A mountain cloudburst causes the river
to break its bounds and encroach on the
house where the reunion is taking place,
thus throwing into high relief the clashes
and incompatibilities of the families
within.
Mrs France tells her story in elegant
cadences which bring to mind the
claustrophobic style of Virginia Woolf
Her standpoint within the mind of Julie
insulates the reader from the direct im-
pact of the characters and, lacking
power, this may well be the writer’s
technique of dwarfing her people so that
the river seems the predominant “charac-
ter”.
The portion of the book where the


A SMALL ARMAGEDDON
Mordecai Roshwald
A brilliant cautionary tale of our nuclear age which combines
elements of wild extravagance and sober possibility. By the
author of LEVEL SEVEN.
18/9
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON MELBOURNE SYDNEY AUCKLAND
Lewis family, rent by feuds, unites to
seal the house against the flood, is vividly
handled and. as the waters rise, so does
a feeling of dread and tension in the
reader.
“The Clydesiders” by Hugh Munro
and “Key to the Door” by Alan Sillitoe
may suffer from appearing at the same
time, though the more famous name of
Sillitoe will probably tip the scales.
Both tell the story of a boy who grows
up in the poverty-stricken tenements of
his native city during the Depression,
and who reaches young adulthood just
in time for World War 11.
Though Munro’s setting is Glasgow',
and Sillitoe's Nottingham, many inci-
dents and the lusty use of low-life
argot reflect, with only superficial differ-
ences, the similar life of Australian
slum-dwellers at that period: father
assuages his sense of failure with drink,
mother is knocked about, and the boy
watches helplessly and hates, like the
youthful D. H. Lawrence —with this
difference, that Lawrence's was the eye
of a poet, and the scene was scoured of
its grime and ugliness by this purifying
eye.
Despite flawless observation and ac-
complished writing, both books fail to
soar beyond the sociological document
into the sphere of art. Perhaps because
their scope is the narrow one of man
in relation to his pay envelope, rather
than the portrayal and divination of a
world which is something more than the
“victimisation of the poor" by more am-
bitious and disciplined men —a world,
in fact, complete in itself, with its own
values, snobberies and hierarchy. Even
the rumbling of empty bellies may be
turned into the celestial music of art by
skilful counterpoint.
With Francoise Sagan's new book, we
leave behind the novel of environment
and enter more rarefied air where the
plaints against society become plaints
against confinement of spirit, and ex-
ploitation by capitalists is replaced by
the predatoriness of the lover.
In “Wonderful Clouds”, an intelligent
and “emancipated" French girl marries
a young American, who tortures her w ith
his groundless jealousy, and Miss Sagan,
with her usual masterly hand, etches sado-
masochistic scenes between the couple
that are jewels of economy and insight.
The setting is arbitrary—now Florida,
now New York, now Paris —and this
underlines the rootlessness of the charac-
ters, who come and go, in flight or pur-
suit, coupling variously only to break
apart into their separate voids again
with the amorality of satyrs chasing
nymphs, though never so merry.
The clima/i. of the novel seems to
scrape the barrel of emotional perversity
and shows the fungus of cruelty on which
certain kinds of love feed, and also—
hearteningly. for those in like predica-
ment —how it may be destroyed.
The blurb of Monique Lange's “The
Plane Trees” suggests her affinity with
Francoise Sagan and. in a sense, this is
true. In this novel, it is the girl, Claudia,
'who relentlessly pursues and torments
Diego, who has grown indifferent to
her. She insists on accompanying the re-
luctant Diego in his car as he sets out
for his summer holiday, and the continu-
ally shifting background as they drive
across France again conveys the root-
lessness and placelessness of the charac-
ters, as it does in the Sagan novel.
Claudia talks continuously of Diego's
mistress, Nathalie, an actress whom they
both love, but who narcissistically loves
only her own public image. The ruth-
less, desperate onslaught of the girl, and
the way she attacks her own hopes with
a perverseness that seems strangely de-
liberate, gives the blighted affaire a nllip
that almost convinces Diego there
might be something in her he has not
yet plundered. Nevertheless, my final
thought was: “1 can't imagine why he
didn't bash her head in.” But that may
be only the Australian way of looking at
such things. The French, it seems, thrive
on “sick” love.
THELMA FORSHAW
VARIETIES OF TOLERANCE
Conscience and its Right to Freedom.
Eric d'Arcy. Sheed and Ward.
17s. 6d.
Feather d’Arcy is not only an able pro-
fessional philosopher but he is also
chaplain of the Movement. It is. there-
fore, of considerable interest that he wrote
a book, declared free from error in
matters of Catholic faith and morals by
Dr Mannix’s imprimatur, which is a well-
documented and vehement advocacy of
unrestricted freedom of conscience in
religious matters. Fr d'Arcy’s opposition
to any kind of religious oppression is
based on somewhat modifying inter-
pretations of scholastic doctrines which
are not unanimously held by all Catholic
theologians. Yet it is in line with the
thinking of the majority of CatholL
intellectuals in Australia, irrespective of
their politics. In matters of religious
tolerance there appears to be no difference
between Movement and non-Movement
Catholics.
Catholic intellectuals are going out of
their way nowadays to dissociate them-
selves from past persecutory practices
of their Church. It would be good if
non-Catholic liberals were to devote a
fraction of these efforts to justify their
own adoption of these practices at
present or lather their irrationally
selective readiness to adopt such pactices.
Thus, the war against the Nazis was
regarded by all good liberals as a
crusade (sic) with fire and sword to put
down a pernicious social doctrine. It
was followed up by a tough and
übiquitous Inquisition (de-Nazification)
carried out by means of ruthless pressure,
spying and disadvantage. In so far as
liberals had anything to say on this, they
cried for more. The propounders of the
Nazi heresy were deprived by physical
coercion of their freedom like the
Albigensians and by an occupying
power at that.
We are confronted with a comedy of
errors: On the one hand, Catholics,
partly to allay the fears of liberals, are
making a show of their tolerance, whilst
the liberals have adopted, at least
operationally, the good old (and, in prin-
ciple, correct) Catholic belief that
certain creeds must be fought and ex-
tirpated by force and their protagonists
silenced, and, if necessary, eliminated.
Life is complicated.
FARNK KNOPFELMACHER
MILES FRANKLIN AWARD
Entries for the 1961 £5OO Miles
Franklin Award dose on February 28,
1962. Relevant information can be
obtained from Permanent 1 rustee Com-
pany of N.S.W., Box 4270, GPO, Sydney.


POEMS
Tract
Though men advance upon the earth,
Rejoice and throw their devils down.
Make science the nurse of every town
And kill all spectres at their birth,
There’s nothing in their works of good
Will take the cruelty from a flower
That taunts that men have not withstood
The loss of wisdom or of power.
Past all attempts to master fate
And give this doubtful earth a heaven.
There’s still a gift that none was given
To mock the curse on man’s estate.
If death should keep his old domain
Then we shall keep our old alarms,
Will know the shadows and the rain
And every winter’s wintry arms.
NOEL MACAINSH
Deck-Chair Story
1 see the horses running on the plain
I see the carbines lift in line and sweep
Down and level like a swathe of canes
Cut with a single and commanding stroke:
But they are splendid—they are levelled each.
And all at me —the horses closing now —-
I rise to shoot —and I am hammered down
Such hooves of burning nickel burst my eyes
Such boats of thunder shoal above my corpse
All that night, I crept back into life.
But now I wonder, since I have grown old
Eating warm soup and bothering the sun:
I see the horses running on the plain
And wonder where my soul went when it joined
That moment and that regiment of horse.
LES A. MURRAY
Hailstorm
Over my jail. Down. The sky
is clattering, shocked
and captured in the hail of icy gravel.
Perhaps the crust of Earth will dry
to fragments and (locked
in separate prisons) collapse, plunge and travel
down through its boiling molten heart.
And thus will murder
with itself its manacles of stone.
My tears are brittle; my blood’s a chart
of my hot disorder.
When they hang me, must I hang alone?
RODNEY HALL
Reconciliation
Paused at his apogee like the hawk
He saw the sharp descending stair;
He needed now for her to talk.
Else fall into the evening air.
His feet had had their own momentum.
Motored by his angry word.
And now the terrible interregnum.
Would the homing call be heard?
Was that a movement? Does she mean
To start a hare from out the cover?
Does he fly. or does he lean
Against the angry air. and hover,
Until, the moment full in sight.
He falters, falling down the hill
Of air. to where he loses in her night
The urgency to claim a kill?
The image on his eye was still.
At h;s feet the sharp descent.
The hawk could only hang until
The heated plume of air was spent.
But she had seen his hesitation
His half-halting at the height,
And his ebbing irritation
In the angled evening light.
So she let him hover there
With cloud confusion in his head,
But when his feet felt for the stair.
She plunged, “Don't go/’ she softly said.
JOHN CROYSTON
Judge and Prisoner
1 wait, a judge within my court-room self.
Summon the host of fools to make confessions.
There is the boy who beat his dog; ashamed,
He lied as well as boys can lie at home.
His mother smiled. Now all are dead.
Here comes the preciousness who went to school
And cried in every street till he was sick.
The teacher said that he would cure that boy.
Then made him stand alone. The boy soon found
His brain weighted with indifference.
A lout with pimples on his cheeks walks in
To claim so much. At times, upon his knees,
A masochistic flood of prayer would rise
Within his mind but seldom purified.
The Virgin Mary looked with pity.
Now watch the analyst who took so much
Till all he had became a skeleton.
A young man enters, and he does not love;
He is the prisoner who every day
Built loving walls around himself.
So judge and prisoner become the same
Within one man who cannot judge the world
Unless he judge himself, accept the guilt
Within himself. The ghosts of innocence
All have a face he cannot blame.
R. A. SIMPSON


"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 680
Across
I—Leave an animal’s coat by the lake. (8)
5 —A quarrel with ermine and sable gets in the groove. (6)
9 Odd spirit. (3)
10— Lydia exemplifies this code for hygienic dressing. (5, 6)
11— Taverner’s equipment worn by wicketkeepers. (6)
12— Expressions by the witty girls with whom the South
associates. (7)
16 —A word of discouragement about
a famous “Mr Chips.” (5)
18—Dexter has an innings which is
apparently very correct. (5, 4)
20 — Tennis players need these phone-
calls when relaxing. (9)
21— Renegade I Italianised with pro-
portion. (5)
22 Conference with the father of
Australia’s tennis champion?
(7)
24 —Cram into wine in its early
stages. (4)
28 — Snake estuary near Manchester?
(11)
29 Many a Pole ends up with this
winter footwear. (3)
30— It threatens the life of many a
baby songstress. (6)
31— A tiny peg (anagram). (8)
Down
1— They won’t permit auctions for
such as these! (10)
2 They chew the cud insects having
a piratical taste in alcohol, pre-
sumably. (9)
3 Command tidiness. (5)
4 Forbidding King George and
him if beheaded. (4)
6 Pad a gun-pocket off the
ground. (9)
7 Anger affected the mountain
chain. (5)
8— Jenny, an architect. (4)
13— Time to the Gallicised blow. (6)
14 — Fruit from Duck Mountains. (6)
15— A timid noon (anagram). (10)
1 i —Spanish celebrities ripped a him
actress named Diana. (9)
19—Opposed to the price set on one
island in the St Lawrence. (9)
23—Change later—anyway, change!
(5)
25 — As some joint on board a vessel.
(5)
26 One who is proverbially cautious
with his cash business in the
street. (4)
27 — It’s handy if you wish to stop
bankrupt. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 679


m
BY APPOINTMENT TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD.
FOR THE SCOTCH WITH A CHARACTER ALL ITS OWN
cisk for
“Johnnie Walker”
THE SCOTCH OF SCOTCH
, mm
-
m m
-
m
V
: v
'
Now in miniatures, 5 oz.
flasks, 13 oz. in flasks and
square bottles, and the pop-
ular 26 oz. square bottles.
KORN 1 820 —ST ILL GOING STRONG
