

The Bulletin
ONE SHILLING
MAY 12
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
Sects In
Australia
THOSE ALDERMASTON MARCHERS
When Zeal Turns Sour


V
2
How do you judge?
How do you judge the
effectiveness of advertising?
Bulletin readers are really
readers —not browsers. That's
why discerning advertisers
use The Bulletin.
The Bulletin
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
FOR ADVERTISING RING SYDNEY BU 5971
MELBOURNE MF3341,
BRISBANE B 2691
ADELAIDE W 4121


SIR ALBERT BATESON, C.M.G.,
page 26
“Influential, but scarcely lovable”
•
Religious Sects in Australia . . 12
Picasso and the President .. 16
Australia Revisited .. 18
No Profit in His Own Country . . 20
Those Aldermaston Marchers . . 22
Birth Control and the State Depart-
ment 29
Comrade Khrushchev’s Soft Sell 30
The Great Leap Backward .. 31
Wool—A Reversal on Prices .. 52
Victor Borge on TV 54
That Certain 800k —James Me*
Auley on Shelley ~ .. 57
•
NATIONAL NOTEBOOK 4
THIS AUSTRALIA • 6
AROUND SYDNEY 11
New York NEWSLETTER 16
AROUND MELBOURNE 21
FORUM 22
LETTERS 24
OVERSEAS 29
WILD CAT 32
MAN ON THE LAND 52
REVIEWS 54
RED PAGE 57
FEIFFER 63
Vol. 83
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY LTD
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
80- X 2521; Phone: 27 5971.
No. 4291
WALK OUT ON RESPONSIBILITY
'PHE “Ban-the-Bomb” decision of die Federal Parliamentary Executive,
(which at the time of going to Press Caucus is expected to confirm)
is such a stupendous act of betrayal of Australian interests that one can
only seek consolation in the hope that the Labor party will never again
govern Australia. The Executive decided to oppose all nuclear tests any-
where any time, to renounce Australia’s use of atomic weapons, and to
reject stockpiling of atomic weapons, even for defence.
It has long been obvious that there were Australians who were either
stupidly ignorant of the dangers the country faced or who knew about
them but were happy to give the country up to an enemy provided it was
communist. But never before has there been a case as blatant as this. We
are 2000 miles from Red China, a country which is building atomic bombs,
with no scruples about using them and which is committed to a policy
of world war. We have once before been told by what was then our
main military ally the United Kingdom that we were expendable.
Yet now we are to give up our only means of self-defence in a major war.
Self-defence is now a dirty word in the Labor party.
It is elementary, that our best hope of survival in this century is by a
firm alliance with the United States. However, the United States is only
likely to regard us as an ally worth preserving if we are prepared to pull our
weight. The Labor party has now told the United States that they should
no longer bother about preserving us.
There is danger enough that the US may at crucial times ignore our
vital interests or even find us expendable. To withdraw, in effect, from the
Western Alliance is merely to intensify these attitudes in our closest ally.
JSjOT the least curious aspect of the business is that Mr Calwell decided to
throw his weight in with the Leftists on the Executive. The vote was six
in favour of the ban-the-bomb resolution and six against. Mr Calwell’s was
the casting vote. No one is surprised that Mr Haylen should urge a suicidal
policy, that he should ignore our self interest, the reaction of America
and Britain, the impact this decision will have on the ANZUS conference
or its effect on overseas investors. But for the leader of the alternative gov-
ernment to do so is an act either of extraordinary weakness or of dangerous
folly.
It is probably true that the voting public will in due course show Mr
Calwell his folly; certainly he has given the Democratic Labor Party its
biggest free gift since he assumed the leadership of the Labor party.
On the other hand no government or opposition party can afford to
underestimate the growing feelings of masses of ordinary people about the
horrors of nuclear war. Australia will have its full share of Aldermaston
Marchers in the future.
Equally no responsible government or opposition party can ignore the
fact that an anti-bomb gesture such as this one far from guaranteeing peace
in this part of the world simply invites the communists to conquer us.
Unilateral disarmament illusions as distinguished from more realistic dis-
armament schemes could easily spread when encouraged by a major
political party.
On page 10 we report Mr Gaitskell another Labor opposition
leader whose views are in startling contrast to those of Mr Calwell.


National
Notebook
Dobell's Week
Tt was William Dobell's week, with the
A showing of two films on him—Geoffrey
and Dahl Collings’ one for Qantas, and
Boris Cook’s, made with the help of
people who believed in him —and the
unveiling of the John Anderson portrait.
The unveiling of the portrait, com-
missioned by the John Anderson Testi-
monial Fund, on Saturday morning at
Rudy Komon's Gallery had two unusual
features. No sherry was served, which
for those who are used to Gallery Sherry
(as this type should be called) was a
blessing since one was able to examine the
painting without squirming. And only the
one painting w'as exhibited. This is com-
mon practice in America and Europe and
a good one: it means you can concentrate
on the main event without being distrac-
ted by a cluster of works that one cannot
possibly take in at the viewing.
The Andersonian Committee was
obviously pleased with the painting since
the Press photographs of it, which was
all they had seen until Saturday morning,
suggested that Dobell had done one of his
less-flattering portraits—a sort of old
man’s Joshua Smith but the reality is
very different. It is not only a masterpiece
—worth about £20.000 on the market —
but brings out the philosopher’s character.
Both Dobell and Anderson were pleased
though Dobell was anxious to add a
few more touches to the left (i.e. the
sitter’s right) hand. Dobell also spoke
enthusiastically on the Qantas film. It
made him wish he could paint as well as
he seemed to.
Boris Cook’s 20-minute film on Dobell
was in both color and black and white.
“Please don’t think I was borrowing from
Eisenstein,” Cook said. “It was simply a
matter of cost. I began in black and
white and then didn't want to reshoot the
whole thing. Actually, 1 don’t find much
difference between color and black and
W'hite. Color is only another dimension.”
Australian-born Cook, a former art
student, gained his first experience in
film-making with a small documentary
unit in London nine years ago. “1 began
making a film on a Mexican art exhibition
at the Tate,” he said. “F suppose because
of my inexperience it never got finished.
J then tried something based on Dryden’s
poem ‘Alexander’s Feast.’ This really
W'asn’t successful, either, so I came home
to learn something about the technical
side of film-making, wffiich, after all, is the
important part of the job.”
Cook’s ambition now is to do a film on
Patrick White, or, more precisely, on
White’s “The Tree of Man”. “It is a
beautifully visual book,” Cook said, “In
this book White has shown more clearly
than anyone, apart from Lawrence, how
environment shapes the Australian. I
would hope in the film to relate parts of
White's life to passages in the book.”
The Old Hand Leaves
A fter nearly 40 years’ direct associa-
tion with the Australian wool in-
dustry, Mr Takeshi Fujiwara, head in
Australia of Kanematsu Ltd, returns to
Japan this week. Mr Fujiwara is the
oldest hand in the Japanese community
here. He came here first in 1923 and
worked as a jackeroo at Thylungra
station near Quilpie in Queensland.
Apart from his time as a jackeroo,
Mr Fujiwara’s only long spell in the
Australian countryside was when he was
a civilian internee at Hay for eight
months in 1942 until repatriated on
exchange.
Prewar Mr Fujiwara’s trips home were
by sea and sometimes took more than
four months. Postwar he has flown to
Japan once and sometimes twice a year.
He w ill now return to his home at Ashiya,
near Osaka. Four of his five children
were born in Australia.
Mr Fujiwara departed on the cheerful
note that he believed no synthetic fibre
was superior to wool. However, he thinks
that Australia should improve standards
of w 00l classing. He said that the .inferior
classing of Australian merino was
enabling South Africa, our only com-
petitor in this class, to gain on our
markets.
Poverty-stricken Souls
C*r Paul’s Cathedral, as one newspaper
put it “Melbourne’s symbol of dig-
nity and splendor,” is crumbling aw'ay.
A full scale £150,000 appeal is now
under way to save and replace the rotting
stonework. It is incredible that this
should be necessary for by cathedral
standards St Paul’s is an infant. The
foundation stone was not laid until 1880.
The Cathedral architect, Mr Edward F.
Billson, has blamed the trouble on a
strike. The original plan back in the
1880 s was to import all the stone from
Sydney. A shipping strike interrupted
the supply so the contractors decided how
much easier it was to get local stone from
Geelong. The stone they chose was soft
and has been the misery of Melbourne's
public buildings ever since.
The fund-raiser is Keith Newman, the
former Federal secretary of the RSL. The
plan has been to make the appeal to all
Melbourne regardless of denomination,
and it has been most interesting. People
like Sir Frank and Lady Selleck have
weighed in with £5OO. Lord Baillieu gave
£lOO but if you ran your eye over the
lists very carefully you would come
across notoriously non-Anglican figures
like the Hon. A. A. Calwell, £25.
But some Anglicans are concerned.
Outside St Paul's on the corner of Swan-
ston and Flinders Streets there is a large
barometer which records that the appeal
now stands at £60,000. A letter to the
“Age” signed “Ashamed Anglican” said
it was a scandal that the Church had to
stoop to this sort of thing. There should
be no need even to ask for the money.
We should pray for our poverty-stricken
souls.
Electronic Status Symbols
HThe USS Towers, in Sydney for the
Coral Sea Week celebrations, is a
guided-missile destroyer of the type Aus-
tralia has ordered from America. The
most significant difference in the Aus-
tralian version will be a bar built into
the officers’ wardroom. That should
ensure that the officers are as contented
with their amenities as the ratings will
be with their foam-rubber mattresses and
individual reading lights over their bunks.
There is something altogether uncom-
forting, however, in the notices on the
Towers which say what to do during an
atomic attack: They bring home the fact
that what the Americans call “the Russian
big bad one” might come home. The
Combat Information Centre and Weap-
ons Control Centre are an assurance
against this. They are the nerve centre
of the ship, where 50 men operate elec-
tronic machines which register, process
and remember information about at-
tackers and come up with the answers
as to how to destroy them.
If you want an electronic status
symbol, here it is, most impressive,
complex and consoling. Our assurance
was not upset when it was admitted that
only one of the 50 operators was a
graduate. We only felt a vague disquiet
when reference was made to the decon-
tamination system against fallout —a set
of sprinklers similar to those in use on
lawns.


We went to lunch and someone sug-
gested to the Commander that he put
on the television to catch some Australian
programmes.
The Commander fiddled with the knobs
for a few minutes, but had to call a
Chinese steward to ask him if he knew
how to turn on the set. Then the Bombe
Alaska arrived.
Telegram to Tito
YX/E hear from London that 99 noted
British writers and intellectuals have
sent a petition to Tito asking for a
reconsideration of the re-arrest of
Milovan Djilas. Djilas’s newest short
story “The War” and an outline of the
Yugoslav writer’s struggle for personal
and professional freedom, were in last
week’s Bulletin.
The signatories to the petition include
E. M. Forster, John Osborne, Iris
Murdoch, J. B. Priestley, Edith Sitwell
and Rebecca West.
The telegram to Tito said, in part:
“We find it regrettable that a writer’s
theoretical and historical remarks should
be taken as an embarrassment to Yugo-
slavia. What is embarrassing to Yugo-
slavia in the eyes of the free men
everywhere is the arbitrary imprisonment
of one of Yugoslavia’s most distinguished
citizens for normal literary activities.”
The Senator is Scathing
CJenator Vincent, as adjudicator of the
Catholic Schools Drama Festival
held in Perth recently, did not confine
himself solely to comments on the plays.
He said the festival revealed the lack
of awareness of theatre in Perth, and
claimed that most Western Australian
country towns were better equipped
theatrically for such events than the
capital. Assembly Hall, where the festival
was staged, was quite inadequate for the
occasion, according to the Senator.
If he was scathing about facilities for
theatre in Perth he was enthusiastic about
the festival itself in which 22 Catholic
secondary schools, represented by over
200 actors, staged plays by Shakespeare,
Sheridan, Pinero, Masefield and Red-
grave.
The Senator, incidentally, is an old
theatre man himself —he founded the
Kalgoorlie Theatre in 1935. Mary Lord,
our Perth theatre critic, holds a very
different opinion of the festival and Perth
theatre generally in her comment in the
reviews section.
One-man Migrant Scheme
T\utch journalist Goris Verburg has
reached one firm conclusion after
two months’ investigation of how
migrants live in Australia: he would like
to come here himself with his wife and
nine children.
Verburg’s investigations had led him
to believe that the difficulty in financing
home-building was the reason why
so many Dutch went back. But of the
13 per cent, who went back to Holland,
half came back to Australia, he said.
“I am keen to migrate to Australia,”
Verburg said. “If I cannot come my
two eldest sons certainly will. I like
Australia.” As for those who don’t . . .
“Grumbling is a national pastime in my
country,” Verburg said.
Taure
"HOW WILL 'BETTER RED THAN DEAD' FIT IN WITH LABOR'S
POLICY ON WHITE AUSTRALIA?"


This Australia
NEW GUINEA
COMMITTEE OF 100
BY PETER COLEMAN in Sydney
JACK BIRNEY
“People will regret it”
Tf one can judge from its off-beat plans
**■ some already announced, others
only hinted at a political movement
recently launched in Sydney by a hand-
ful of professional men seems certain to
embarrass the Federal Government over
its New Guinea policy and to make the
rest of Australia sit up and take notice.
Plans already under way include making
contacts with the underground anti-
Soekarno Republic of South Molluccas,
linking up with the Rotterdam Committee
for Self-Determination in New Guinea,
joining forces with anti-Kennedy Con-
gressmen in the United States, preparing
to send volunteers to join the Dutch
military forces in West New Guinea,
taking the Dutch New Guinea Papuan
leader, Herman Wonsiwor, on an anti-
Indonesian lecture tour through Aus-
tralia, and building fraternal relations
with militant anti-communist groups in
Australia.
Though in its few weeks’ existence it
has operated with very little publicity—it
has only had one public meeting in
Sydney and another in Port Moresby
it has already been attacked in Parlia-
ment, and on the radio and elsewhere
as neo-fascist, as war-mongering, as rat-
bag, and even as a communist-front
to control the sincerely patriotic Right-
wingers such as its main spokesmen who
are worried about the Indonesian commu-
nists. The movement itself claims to be
solely interested in Australian security
and the rights of the Papuans.
The group is the United Australia
Movement so-called because it wants
to unite East New Guinea with the
Commonwealth of Australia. Since it does
not believe that the Indonesians could
be kept out of Australian territory if they
took Dutch New Guinea it demands full
support, including military support if
necessary, for the Dutch self-determina-
tion policy.
It was formed principally by some
Sydney barristers and solicitors who were
alarmed by the trend of events and in-
spired by the “Sydney Morning Herald’s”
attacks on the Federal Government's
policy of “appeasement” in New Guinea.
Its President is solicitor Bruce Miles, its
Secretary is solicitor Peter Derwent, and
other members include Sydney barrister,
Jack Birney (the Vice-President), Port
Moresby barrister C. Kilduff, and Port
Moresby dentist R. McNally. They are
of all political colors Mr F. Preacher,
who recently returned from a fact-finding
mission for the Movement in New
Guinea is President of the Manly
Branch of the Liberal Party. But Bruce
Miles is head of the anti-Libera! party
“Darby for Manly” organisation which
recently defeated the Liberal party can-
didate in Manly in the NSW elections.
He also was the leading spirit in the for-
mation last Monday of another new
movement, Liberal Forum, a sort of
breakaway from the Liberal party,
“designed to encourage those who believe
in the freedom of the individual to accept
the responsibilities of democracy.” (“We
are groping”, Miles said, “but we may
be making political history.”) On the
other hand UAM Secretary Derwent is
well known in Labor party circles.
To date the Movement is using the
same technique as the UK Disarmament
Committee of 100 in limiting its mem-
bership to 100. This reduces the amount
of paper work and ;r any case its pub-
licity programme, such as the proposed
tour of Wonsiwor Dutch Papuan
leader and member of the New Guinea
Council will be sensational but cheap.
Funds are donated by the 100 and are
adequate for present needs. Later on,
they say, when they are established, some
rich benefactor or perhaps the Dutch
Government may help finance them. The
names of the 100 are secret.
Its first public meeting was in the
Douglas St Arts Theatre, Port Moresby,
on February 2. About 65 people attended.
The main speaker was Jack Birney from
Sydney, who spoke of the immediacy of
the Indonesian threat to East New
Guinea. He instanced the visit to Port
Moresby of the Indonesian ship
Dewarutji, the crew of which spoke
Motu and Pidgin, distributed anti-white
leaflets, and invited Papuans on board
to look over the ship a gesture of
friendship that Australian ships have
never made. “Unless some action is
taken soon,' : he said, referring to In-
donesian expansion “people will regret
it all the days of their lives." He also
advocated Parliamentary representation
of Papua in the Federal Parliament on
the lines of Northern Territoiy represen-
tation, and the establishment of an in-
surance scheme to protect investments in
New Guinea along the lines of the War
Damage Commission. Other speakers
included C. Kilduff (“It is very difficult
to get across to democratic people that a
particular crisis has arisen and that a
trouble spot is now in existence") and the
Papuan leader Dr Reuben Tameka who
claimed that if Indonesia took over
Dutch New Guinea it would be im-
possible to stop communist infiltration of
Australian New Guinea.
Two motions were put to the meeting:
to petition the Commonwealth Parliament
to grant representation to Papua
(carried with three against) : to urge the
Government to support firmly the Dutch
proposals for West New Guinea (carried
unanimously) ; and although a third
motion concerning the protection of in-
vestments was planned it was dropped
pending further investigations.
Later in February a second public
meeting of about 80 people, held in
Sydney in the Maccabean Hall, con-
firmed the Port Moresby resolutions.
An account of the two meetings, with a
summary of the UAM's aims, was then
sent to the Prime Minister and other
Federal politicians. So far all that has
happened is that Mr Leslie Haylen has
attacked them, and Mr Drummond and
NEXT WEEK’S ISSUE
• VICE-REGAL SIX Cover
Story on State Governors.
• THAT CERTAIN BOOK
S. H. Deamer on R. M. Ballan-
tyne.
• ALAN REID As I See It.
% MACMILLAN Ambiguous
Prime Minister.
• ANZAC “Why Not Union
Now?” by W. C. Wentworth.


Sir Wilfrid Kent Hughes have show r n
interest in the Movement.
The Movement is still young but it
feels that bringing Herman Wonsiwor
here on an anti-Indonesian lecture tour
will make all Australians take notice.
LABOR DAY
PEACE FRONTS ON MAY DAY
FROM JOHN HIGGINS in Brisbane
A/Tajor repercussions are likely to result
from the communist party’s gate-
crashing of Brisbane’s Labor Day march
through one of its front organisations—
the Queensland Peace Committee for
International Co-operation and Disarma-
ment.
Formed in March, 1960, the Queens-
land Peace Committee occupies a rabbit
warren at the rear of the Trades Hall,
and publishes a monthly roneoed news-
letter called “Peace Light.” Its founda-
tion chairman was Mr F. J. Waters,
who was expelled from the ALP in 1941
because of his association with the Sheep-
skins for Russia movement, but has since
been readmitted to the fold and is now
a member of the Queensland Central
Executive of the ALP representing his
Postal Workers Union. With him at the
inaugural meeting, and sharing with him
today executive positions on the Peace
Committee, were such well-known
Queensland communists as Mr Alex Mac-
donald, secretary of the Trades and
Labor Council; and Mr Max Julius,
official communist party Senate candi-
date in 1958 and communist party
candidate for Moreton in 1961.
Immediately after its formation in
1960, the Peace Committee affiliated
with the World Peace Council in Moscow
—and in its current April issue of “Peace
Light” announced its endorsement of the
proposed Congress for General Disarma-
ment and Peace, to take place in Moscow
from July 9-14 this year. Within the
last year it has also sponsored Mr W.
Morrow, who won the Soviet-sponsored
Lenin Peace Prize, and it has sent Mrs
Kathie Walker to the sth National Con-
ference on Aboriginal Affairs held in
Adelaide at Easter. (Mr Morrow, inci-
dentally, was refused ALP endosement
in 1953 because of his association with
Communist-front activities.)
“Peace Light” concentrates on publish-
ing stories of unrest in the free world,
while behind the Iron Curtain there is
happiness beyond description. Its current
two-page issue describes as a “policy of
hostility and belligerence” Australia’s
decisions to allow a US naval radar base
in Exmouth Gulf, to reject “a UN
appeal to make Australia a non-nuclear
zone”; to refuse to support at UN the out-
lawing of nuclear weapons; and to sup-
port the US nuclear tests at Christmas
Island “only 3000 miles from Brisbane.”
With all this background, the furore
that greeted news that the Peace Com-
mittee was to march in this year’s Labor
Day procession is understandable. Secre-
tary of the 20,000 strong Federated
Clerks Union Mr W. J. Barry promptly
announced that he would not be march-
ing in the same parade as the Peace
Committee—a decision that was
promptly ratified by his Union executive.
The Federated Ironworkers Association
State secretary, Mr H. Peebles, said that
he personally was “not happy about it,”
but his union still marched, under protest.
At the same time the powerful
Australian Workers Union was under-
stood to have received the news with
cold disgust. Outspoken State secretary,
Ned Williams, is at present overseas,
and this probably explains why no out-
burst had been delivered at the time of
writing; but ructions seem certain.
Following the growth of communist
influence at the Trades Hall during the
war years, the ALP took control of the
Labor Day procession away from the
Trades Hall and placed it under control
of a separate ALP Labor Day Celebra-
tions Committee, from which communist
union officials were excluded. But follow-
ing the victory of the Trades Hall dele-
gates on the Queensland Central Execu-
tive in 1957, the conduct of the Labor
Day procession was handed back to the
Trades Hall in 1958. This led to the
re-emergence of communist slogans in
the march, and the spectacle of well-
known communists handing out official
Labor Day badges. It also saw the
AWU withdrawing from the march —
though this year it returned after its
recent reaffiliation with the ALP. Friday,
however, saw an announcement that the
AWU would be at the rear of the pro-
cession instead of the front as anticipated
—leaving one Brisbane columnist specu-
lating on the possibility that this would
allow for a last-minute withdrawal by
the big union. When the day came, how-
ever, it fronted. But the last of it has
not been heard.
FEMINISM
WOMEN
BEWARE WOMEN
FROM KEITH WILLEY IN DARWIN
A/Trs. Lyn Berlowitz, normally the NT
Legislative Council’s mildest mem-
ber, erupted recently with rare anger.
What got under her skin was a Bill
introduced to include “all men” as
eligible to serve on jury panels, but
excluding “all women.”
At present only men of European
descent can sit on juries. This hasn’t
mattered much in the past because all
trials here, except for murder, have
been heard by the Supreme Court Judge,
sitting alone. (The jury system, for all
but capital offences, was abandoned
many years ago because of the near-
impossibility of getting Territory juries
to convict anyone. For instance a man
who shot a Chinese dead in a picture
theatre was acquitted on the grounds
that he had been aiming at someone else.)
But despite some apprehensive rum-
blings from the Crown Law Department
the jury system will be reintroduced for
all criminal cases from July 1. With only
2300 persons eligible in Darwin and
about 600 in Alice Springs the council
has hurried through new legislation,
widening qualifications for service to
include Chinese and aboriginal citizens
. . . But no women!
“This is an insult to the women of
the Territory,” Mrs Berlowitz exploded.
“By excluding us the Crown is saying, in
effect, that educated white women haven’t
the mental capacity of aborigines. I
frankly believe this will give some
natives the wrong idea about the status
of white women.”
She pooh-poohed the idea of some
males that women are too emotional and
are incapable of logical reasoning.
“Women usually go right around the
question and have a good look at it,
while men are inclined to make hasty,
often wrong, decisions,” Mrs Berlowitz
said. When women were before a court
men were inclined to be “a bit too easy
in some cases.” Women jurors would
counter this tendency, she said. In Darwin
a lively battle of the sexes developed and
“The Northern Territory News” capped
it by running a street quiz. To everyone’s
surprise the main opponents of female
jurors seemed to be the women them-
selves.
Mrs Berlowitz went down fighting. .She
accused the Crown Law Officer (Mr
Ron Withnall) of “making it clear that
women will be admitted to jury panels
over his dead body.”


LAW
KICKING LITIGANTS DOWNSTAIRS
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
UPhe Bolte Government’s Courts Juris-
diction Bill was defeated in the
Legislative Council last week by a line-up
of Country party and Labor members,
and one could almost hear the cheers
from the Victorian Bar Council. The
Bill is the Government’s formula to
reduce the big backlog of court cases,
but the legal profession sees it in a
different light.
Justice has been slowed to a snail’s
pace for many Victorian litigants. When
he introduced the Bill in the Lower House
early in April, the Attorney-General,
Mr Rylah, said that 657 cases were
awaiting trial in general session, the
Supreme Court had a total of 847 cases
on the jury list at the start of March,
while the County Court had 2343 non-
jury cases awaiting trial at the start of
April.
The new legislation widens the juris-
diction of the County Court to relieve
the pressure on the Supreme Court, while
at the same time relieving the pressure
on the latter by extending the jurisdiction
of Petty Sessions hearings. “It kicks the
litigant downstairs,” the Labor leader
in the Legislative Council (Mr Galbally)
claimed. “It kicks him out of the Supreme
Court and into the County Court, and
out of the County Court into the Court of
Petty Sessions.”
In more precise terms, the County
Court whose jurisdiction in vehicle
accident cases is at present limited to
claims for £2500 will have this ceiling
removed, though its jurisdiction will not
be exclusive. Its jurisdiction in cases of
contract, tort and certain other matters
now limited to £lOOO will be raised to
£2OOO. In cases of ejectment, where it
is now limited to properties of annual
value of £250, the figure will be lifted
to £5OO, while jurisdiction in other claims
which are now limited to £lOOO will
rise to £2OOO.
Ordinary Petty Sessions jurisdiction at
present limited to £lOO will be raised to
£250, while its special jurisdiction in
vehicle accident cases will be lifted to
£5OO. The list of offences which these
courts may handle is increased by the
addition of breaking and stealing, and
breaking with intent to steal (except
breakings into dwellings and churches).
In cases involving property now limited
to £25, the ceiling will become £5OO.
Prison sentences which these courts may
impose have been since increased to a
maximum of a year.
Mr Rylah pointed out that the main
cause of the law’s delays were outstanding
motor vehicle cases and giving the
County Court power to dispose of these
would greatly relieve the pressure on
the Supreme Court. He also proposed
establishing three emergency courts of
general sessions for a period of six
months to help clear up the backlog. It
was hoped to man these, not with Judges,
but with Recorders who would be senior
barristers appointed only for six months.
The practice is used in the United
Kingdom.
The Labor member for Brunswick
West, Mr Campbell Turnbull, himself a
lawyer, attacked the Bill vigorously in
the Lower House. “The mischief.” he
said, “is that the claimant will noi be
able to have the best trial to which he
is entitled. We should not have second-
rate justice, now cheap justice.” Mr
Turnbull also revealed that the Bar
Council had sent written comments on
the Bill to Mr Rylah, but it was almost
a week before these were made public.
When the Bar Council’s criticisms were
published, they proved to follow similar
lines to those advanced by Mr Turnbull.
It was pointed out that the Bill would
merely move the burden downwards from
the Supreme Court; the same number
of cases would remain to be dealt with,
but they would merely go to tribunals
of inferior jurisdiction. “Even if the
Government were to attempt to meet this
lag by appointing a greater number of
Judges of the County Court or Stipen-
diary Magistrates the overall result, while
no doubt representing a saving in judicial
salaries, may be a lowering in the quality
of justice,” the council observed. The
effect would be to throw the burden of
hardship on litigants with cases pending
in the County Court and Petty Sessions.
Like the Labor party, the council asked
that more Judges be appointed to the
Supreme Court.
Mr Rylah argued that the Bill merely
redressed on imbalance between the
various jurisdictions caused by the de-
cline in the value of money over the
years. Nobody would be deprived of
trial by jury since the consent of the
accused would be needed before his case
could be disposed of in Petty Sessions.
His historical argument, however, was
perhaps capped by some research done
by Mr Turnbull who pointed out that
Victoria had five Supreme Court Judges
in 1880 when the population was 558,000,
but today with three million people there
were only a dozen on the bench of the
Supreme Court.
The Upper House defeat came as a
shock to the Government in view of the
Country party’s support of the Bill in
the Lower House. Announcing the
Country party's volte face the member
for Northern Province Mr Feltham said
the Bill was an attempt to encourage the
Supreme Court to divest itself of car
accident cases. Country solicitors did not
want to see rural areas lose the services
of the Supreme Court Judges which
might happen if they had no car accident
cases to dispose of. He said he agreed
with Mr Galbally that the Government
should appoint more Supreme Court
Judges.
A COLONY OF SPONGERS
MAY 20, 1882
The Bulletin drew this conclusion
from the recent NSW Census:
Tt looks, from what we can reckon
up of the urban inhabitants, very
like as if two-thirds of the people of
New South Wales did not earn their
living by any productive labor what-
ever ; and, if we consider what current
views on politics are, we can hardly
feel surprise that people look at the
public purse for a livelihood. The one
lesson that they have been taught by
political leaders is to sponge on the
Treasury. Whatever work has to be
done, whether to clean out a water-
hole at a township, to make a dray-
crossing over a nameless creek, or to
nurse a poor woman taken in labor,
the “Government” is immediately
applied to. If one wants anything
more than a side of beef or a pair of
breeches it is customary to apply to
the Ministry. The habit of self-help
and the sense of public duty have
almost disappeared.
TTHE Adelaide Reformatory girls have
just barricaded the kitchen
of the establishment, and started to
break up all the furniture they could
destroy. They are now happy with
two months’ imprisonment in gaol.
These girls tire at intervals of
their monotonous confinement, and
start an open rebellion in order that
they may be sent to prison. In gaol
they enjoy the stirring conversation
and lively company of vice-soaked
hags, and are pointed onward to
alluring goals of depravity.


As I see it
BARWICK'S MISSION TO ASIA
FROM ALAN REID IN CANBERRA
\\7 hen the Minister for External
** Affairs, Sir Garfield Barwick,
told the Parliament last week that he
proposed to spend three or four weeks
during the coming Parliamentary re-
cess in South-east Asia, it is significant
that there were no catcalls of
‘‘Tourist” or “Globetrotter.”
Britain’s proposed entry into the
European Common Market has
shocked more than the Menzies Gov-
ernment into realisation that Austra-
lia is now closely and inescapably
—linked with Asia and its Asian
neighbors in the years ahead. It has
shocked Labor also into fuller reali-
sation of the shape of Australia’s
likely future. Visits to Asia are no
longer “trips.” They are duties.
Obviously, with Britain in the Euro-
pean Common Market, Australia’s
economic closeness to Asia must start
to match its geographic closeness.
Japan is already our best wool cus-
tomer. The postwar pattern of trade
which has shown Australian exports
to Europe proportionately declining
while those to Asia have expanded
must undoubtedly intensify once
Britain enters ECM. But it is not the
economic factor alone that is sending
Barwick off to Asia to spend three
or four weeks in unspecified activi-
ties that would a year ago have earned
Labor derision. There are other con-
siderations.
When Defence Minister Athol
Townley returned from a brief visit
to Singapore during the Easter recess
to confer on mutual defence prob-
lems with his opposite number in the
United Kingdom administration, then
also visiting Singapore, he came up
with a number of interesting thoughts.
Townley, who has a gift for easy
mixing, came into contact with a
number of Singapore politicians,
Asians, whom he found possessed of
what in his opinion were odd concepts
of the Australian and the Austra-
lian’s place in Asia. They were ap-
parently finding difficulty in perceiv-
ing the difference between a Britisher,
a Frenchman, a Dutchman, and an
Australian. Townley told them:
“There’s a big difference. Sooner or
later, the Britisher, the Frenchman and
the Dutchman will pull stakes and go
home. But we live here. This is our
home. We have to live with you, just
as you have to live with us. We’ve
got to learn how the other thinks if
we are going to live together har-
moniously.”
Sir Wilfrid Kent Hughes, the Vic-
torian Liberal who is also profoundly
interested in Asian affairs, made a
report dissimilar in content from
Townley’s but equally disclosing the
gap in Australia’s contact with Asia
and Asians. Recently a nephew of
his married a young Malayan lady
who is the niece of a Malayan Cabinet
Minister. At his own expense, Kent
Hughes travelled to Singapore to
attend the wedding. From there he
proceeded on to South Vietnam. He
reported that the authorities there
and elsewhere found an Australian
such a rare visitor that he got the
“red carpet treatment” despite the
fact that he is only a lowly back-
bencher.
r T''HE official records confirm that
-L there has been an odd gap in
the pattern of Australian contact with
Asia. Questioned by Kent Hughes in
the Parliament on this subject of
Ministerial visits to Asia, Barwick
revealed that the last visit of an Aus-
tralian Minister of External Affairs
to Malaya was in 1958 and to Viet-
nam and Laos in 1957. Kent Hughes’
question was limited to only a few
places and probably the Australian
record is as bad for other parts of Asia
equally as important to Australia.
But apparently this gap in Australian
association is to be closed and
kept closed.
As I hear it, Australian missions
in the area are to be alerted to the
fact that the Australian Government
intends to concentrate greater interest
and to establish greater contact in
Asia. Heads of Australian diplomatic
missions throughout South-east Asia
are being summoned to a conference
with Barwick, probably in Kuala
Lumpur if that can be arranged. At
this conference, they will be briefed
on what the Government now expects
from them and the necessity for realis-
ing that their posts are assuming
daily a mounting importance.
Barwick’s itinerary appears certain
to include Cambodia, Malaya, South
Vietnam, Japan, South Korea, with
pauses at Singapore and Hong Kong,
and official appearances possibly
in Indonesia and Formosa. Whether he
goes to Indonesia depends on the
prevailing political climate.
If he goes to Formosa, it will be
significant. No Australian Affairs
Minister has yet visited that country.
Australia recognises the Chiang Kai-
shek administration of that island but
so far there have been unexpressed
reservations. Official visits have been
avoided, though Australia follow-
ing the United States line does
not recognise Red China. If Barwick
goes to Formosa, it will be a gesture
of support for the United States atti-
tude in maintaining its support for
that island. At a guess, it would seem
that despite occasional rumors to the
contrary the Australian Government
is still not contemplating the recog-
nition of the mainland Communist
Government, despite the trade that
has developed between Red China
and Australia, particularly in wheat,
since mainland China has experienced
food shortages.
But the detail of where Barwick
will visit in Asia is not nearly as im-
portant as the fact that he is making
a visit to Asia, and that such visits
are likely to increase in number rather
than decline. From here on, Australia
is going to live increasingly in Asia. If
Barwick had announced that he was
going to Washington or London,
Labor would undoubtedly have given
him a rough time when he made his
announcement. But by receiving his
announcement in approving silence,
Labor showed that the renewed recog-
nition of Asia’s importance to Aus-
tralia brought about by the jolt
of Britain’s proposed entry into the
European Common Market is not
confined to the Government parties
in the National Parliament.


PRESS
HOW TO KILL A MAGAZINE
From MUGGA
'T'he disintegration of the Victorian ALP
Executive went one stage further
recently when Mr Stan Bond, the editor
of its lively fortnightly magazine “Fact,”
resigned in disgust against the refusal of
the Executive to support its own magazine
(see Bulletin, April 28).
When Bond took over “Fact” last
November it was in a mess. Solicitors
Clyde Holding (soon to be rewarded with
the safe State seat of Richmond) and Bob
Holt, State Secretary Cyril Wyndham,
and ex-ALP President Albert McNolty
were put on the board of the new com-
pany (Australian Labor Publications),
and the Labor party now hoped to
publish a readable paper and to break
loose from the stranglehold the Wearne
advertising machine had got on ALP
publications.
Phil Wearne was an enterprising
businessman who, with the support of the
ex-Victorian State Secretary, Mr Jack
Tripovich, had set up an organisation
through which he hoped to write and
publish as many ALP and trade union
papers as he could handle. At one stage
he produced ALP journals in three
States: “The Western Sun” (WA) ; “The
New Age” (Queensland); and “The
Herald” (SA). He also produced over 50
union papers in nearly all of the Aus-
tralian capitals.
After several complaints from adver-
tisers about ads paid for but not yet prin-
ted in a paper Mr Wearne had contracted
to produce for the Victorian ALP, “New
Australian Welcome” the Victorian
Executive set about making investigations.
As a result of these investigations it
issued this statement to its annual con-
ference last year: “This matter has now
been made one for police investigation
and all persons or business organisations
who have been approached or who have
paid money for advertisements which
have never appeared in any publication,
or who have been threatened if advertise-
ments have not been agreed to, are asked
to immediately contact by letter the State
Secretary of the ALP.” What the
Executive had to do after this was build
up the flagging reputation of the ALP
journals—hence its concern for “Fact.”
Despite their aim, the new company
took on many of the Wearne staff, and
continued some of the practices of the
old organisation. Overstaffed, lavishly
housed, and subject to Central Executive
political direction. “Fact” was sunk as
soon as it was launched. When Mr
Bond came in to sort out the mess, he
sacked all but four of the 14 staff of
“Fact” and laid down in his contract his
freedom from ALP control. More con-
structively he scrapped the editorial
board, leaving a board of management
to regulate financial and organisational
problems.
With its unerring instinct for chaos,
the Victorian Executive then encouraged
the founding of a rival paper “Scope,”
by retired “Labor Daily” journalist and
union official Don MacSween. Obviously
“Scope” was to become the industrial
voice of the Victorian Labor Party. Mac-
Sween had been itching to get his hands
back on ALP publicity since he lost
control of the now defunct “Tocsin.”
Frustrated in this by his fellow-Executive
members, particularly State Secretary
Wyndham, MacSween used the backdoor
provided by the Trade Union Defence
Committee to launch his sectarian
“Scope.”
What especially provoked Bond was
the habit that “Scope” used to gain
advertising through using ALP names.
This had become so bad that in a recent
issue of “Fact” the advertising revenue
had been reduced to one-fifth of printing
costs.
But “Fact,” although successful and
readable, made “political” errors as far
as the Executive were concerned. During
the election for General Secretary of the
Waterside Workers’ Federation, “Fact”
supported the candidature of ALP man
Charlie Fitzgibbon against the com-
munist party’s candidate Nelson. It even
went further than this when in one article
it called ALP members “Curley” Rourke
and McCormack “unity-ticket men.” In
Victoria you can get away with some
things but the unforgivable crime is to
be anti-unity ticket.
The crisis finally erupted at the Execu-
tive on Friday, April 27. With supporters
who are claimed to include Calwell and
Wyndham, Bond had presented his notice
on condition that something would be
done about “Scope.” With its customary
incompetence the Executive did nothing
and Bond left. The Victorian ALP now
has a fortnightly with no editor, and an
unenviable reputation in journalistic and
advertising circles. The immediate sufferer
may well be State by-election candidate
Holding who has ordered a special
20,000 print of the next issue. The long-
term sufferers will be the ALP members
and sympathisers who were on the verge
of getting an interesting and readable
Labor weekly.
"BAN THE BOMB"
“Get on your way to the Kremlin
and see what happens to you.
“Go and march with the goose-
stepping Nazis in East Germany.
“Go and see what it’s like to deal
with Soviet police and Soviet tanks,
like the Hungarian people.
“Perhaps you’ll learn something
about the Soviet empire and com-
munist dictatorship.”
—Mr Hugh Gaitskell, leader of the
British Labor Party, to Ban-the-Bomb
demonstrators in Glasgow. (See page
3).
INDUSTRY
WEEKENDERS
BY PETER KELLY IN SYDNEY
/''Vne little known but important reason
for the decline in industrial unrest
over the last few years, has been the
growth of organisations like the Indus-
trial Relations Society. At Terrigal (“The
Playground of the Central Coast”) 60
miles from Sydney last weekend the
Society held its fourth annual convention
—the biggest since its formation nearly
five years ago. The list of people who
attended over 180 of Australia’s top
business leaders, unionists, legal men,
public servants read like an Industrial
Debrett’s.
One of the more provocative papers
was given by Dr Rawson of University
of Queensland who upset several trade
unionists by maintaining that political
control of unions had little effect on
industrial relations. Despite the increas-
ing influence of communist leaders in
trade unions, for example, there was less
time lost by strikes today than in the
time immediately after the last war.
Mr Warren McDonald contended that
“the remoteness of both ends of the
ladder” (owners and employees) and
the impersonal structure of large com-
panies were two factors undermining
healthy industrial relations. He pleaded
for the recognition by management of
the important role played by industrial
or personnel officers.
The other speakers more or less trod
their well-worn paths and stuck to the
“safe” themes. Like all big conventions
the chief value lay not so much in the
papers but in the “deals” and luncheon
appointments made between different
sections of industry at the Florida bar.


Around Sydney
DINING-ROOMS WITHOUT VIEWS
HThe people of Sydney have never
shown much imagination over
their celebrated harbor.
All that they, their city administra-
tion and their State Government, have
really achieved since 1788, is the
creation of a vast red-roofed subur-
ban Venice.
There are no great waterfront
drives and, with the exception of Farm
Cove, there are no landscaped water-
front parks, although a few pleasant
bits of unspoilt bushland have been
salvaged.
Characteristically, there are only a
very few waterfront restaurants in
this city of 2,000,000 where one can
eat, drink and look at one of the
world's most entrancing waterscapes.
At a meeting of the Maritime Ser-
vices Board in Sydney a few days ago,
the Board, Government-appointed
caretaker of the harbor, considered
an application from a highly reputable
group of Sydney businessmen to moor
the old Harbor Showboat, renamed
a couple of years ago from Kalang
to Sydney Queen, as a floating res-
taurant under the northern pylons
of the Harbor Bridge.
The businessmen pointed out in
their application that successive at-
tempts to run the Showboat as a
profitable cruise ship around the
harbor had met with dismal failure.
Even a £55,000 refit less than two
years ago could not attract enough
people aboard to offset the huge
running costs of the lovely old vessel.
But, tied in an out-of-the-way inlet
beneath the bridge, with no shipping
to navigate, no houses to obstruct
the view and plenty of nearby park-
ing room, the Sydney Queen restaur-
ant would make a magnificent tourist
attraction.
Solemnly the Board good sea-
dogs all listened to the plan’s out-
line. Their chests puffed out momen-
tarily as the applicants extolled the
beauty of the harbor as it would be
seen at night from the open and
glassed-in decks of the Showboat.
Here was surely a scheme with
imagination, one, it is said, looked
upon favorably by State Tourist
Activities Minister Gus Kelly.
But it was not to be. With no more
than a few minutes’ cursory consid-
eration the Board rejected the plan.
The harbor is for shipping, they said.
There’s plenty of land for restaurants
and night-clubs.
So we are left with one of the
world’s most beautiful pieces of water
with only two restaurants and two
beer gardens anywhere near its miles
of shores. And when this story comes
out in the papers, Sydney people will
shrug their shoulders then take
off to dine in the basement of some
converted slum house in East Sydney,
Redfern or Surry Hills.
♦s»
XlCThat the fate of the good ship Syd-
ney Queen will be now, I do not
know. But I am able to give you an
exclusive report on the fate of an-
other piece of real Sydney, an item
inexplicably overlooked by Sydney’s
Press.
The Hole in the Wall cafe wasn’t
exactly Sydney’s smartest eating place,
but I’d wager that its name is almost
as well known as Romano’s, and this
first death notice will cause even
more mourning. Yes, the Hole in the
Wall is dead.
Tucked away under the grimy
Pitt Street colonnade of Central Rail-
way Station, The Hole as it was
known to its clientele was in a
Skid-Row-type of area of Sydney
avoided by all but the most adven-
turous visitors to the city.
But for the hardier natives, the
area held no fears, and, since 1923,
they have recognised the Hole in the
Wall as a typical and integral part
of Sydney. In the Depression, it prob-
ably kept some of them from starv-
ing; likewise when they were at that
house of higher learning the uni-
versity less than a mile away up
Broadway.
The Hole’s regular patrons were
the knockabouts of the village not
the real dead-beats, but the type of
chaps who were just down on their
luck temporarily. For 2s. 6d. it used
to be even cheaper you could get
a choice of one pie plain or with
vegetables and gravy, two pies ditto,
curried sausages and veg., curried
sheep’s tongue ditto, stewed steak
ditto or steak and veg., all with
bread and butter and tea or coffee
inclusive. The menu never changed;
nothing fancy, just good, plain,
honest food.
The tables were bare and scrubbed
white over the years. The crockery
and cutlery were heavy and utilitarian.
But there was something about the
Hole in the Wall, a sort of camara-
derie among its diners.
And it was this atmosphere plus
the economy of the meal that at-
tracted so many of the not-so-poor
from up-town. Being one of the very
few places that stayed open after
midnight, the Hole attracted most of
us who live at night some time or
another. We’d go there after a party,
after a late night at the Journalists’
Club or after finishing work late.
Characters in dinner suits and fancy
dress would drop in after the Artists’
Ball and other chivoos to stoke up
before going home, to “slum it” or
just for a lark to giggle at the tea-
spoons chained to the tables.
The giggling didn’t worry the regu-
lars or proprietor Bob Saunders. They
belonged to that wonderful class of
Australian that believes in minding
its own business. And so, for four
generations from the “Lost” to
the “Beat” the Hole in the Wall
was a haven. We really loved the
place.
So you can imagine my shock
when, wandering down Pitt Street late
last Saturday night, I discovered our
old haunt was in darkness. In the
window was a notice from the Rail-
ways Department owners of the
shops in the colonnade calling
tenders for a 10-year lease of these
“valuable premises.” The double
green doors were closed and pad-
locked. No light shone out beckon-
ing night-birds to a pie and veg.
I stood there, realising that the
Hole just doesn’t fit in with 1962.
There are too many all-night joints
up the Cross now, in a much smarter
part of town.
As I stood there reminiscing, a
character of the area tottered up be-
side me from out of the night.
“Cripes! How long’s the Hole been
closed?” he demanded, a look of
genuine shock on his weather-beaten
face. I didn’t know, but I agreed
that it was a loss. “You’re tellin’ me,”
he said, “I’ve been cornin’ here for
years. Best place in town. I dunno
what Sydney’s cornin’ to.”
BLIGH


AUSTRALIA'S SECTS
In the proselytising business
By PETER KELLY
Witnesses
Maitland’s City Council recently
had a religious row which almost
brought the City Fathers to
blows. For the fourth time in
recent years the council had rejected an
application from the Witnesses of Jehovah
to use Maitland's Town Hall for the Cen-
tral Coast Convention of the Witnesses.
On three successive days Maitland's
‘'Mercury" ran stories, interviews, and
an editorial on the affair.
Alderman J. V. Kennedy led the
council motion (carried 9-4) refusing the
Witnesses use of the Town Hall by declar-
ing that they “wanted to invade this
particular city for the purpose of vilifying
the religious beliefs of others” and that
“the patriotism of each and every one
of us is offended by their denunciation
of the British Empire as a three-horned
beast. A few councillors defended the
Witnesses on the grounds of free speech,
and Alderman Robinson asked: “Who
among us ordinary mortals are going to
say what is the right path?” But Aider-
man W. J. Ferry said that “This sect goes
farther than that and declares all religions
evil!”
Most of Maitland’s citizens interviewed
by the local paper came out in favor of
the Witnesses and the “Mercury” edi-
torially declared the council’s decision
wrong: “the Council has denied the
members of the sect the right to practise
its beliefs in a public place.”
Even Australia’s top Witness 37-year-
old Canadian attorney, Mr Douglas
Held, bought into the squabble and told
Maitland’s people that “this has happened
only once in Sydney before. That was
in 1938 when the Jehovah's Witnesses
movement was refused permission to use
the Sydney Town Hall.”
But public brawls are nothing new
among Mr Held’s duties as top watchdog
of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract
Society. The public spotlight is periodi-
cally flashed on the Witnesses of
Jehovah over the question of their re-
fusal to have blood transfusions. -
Followers of the Pittsburghian, Charles
Taze Russell, a Congregationalist until -
he started his “new-old non-religion,”
around 1879, believe it is a “violation of
God’s law.”
The best known of the blood trans- -
fusion cases was that of Alvin Jehu who
was . convicted in Melbourne of
manslaughter in 1960 because he
refused to allow doctors to give his
baby a transfusion. He was found
guilty, and released on a good-behavior
bond for five years. Since then State
legal authorities have found ways around
this medical predicament. For instance,
the New South Wales Government
amended its Public Health Act on April
19, 1960, empowering two doctors to
decide, in an emergency, whether or not
minors should have a blood transfusion.
Victoria and Queensland have similar
provisions, but Western Australia still
has to invoke its cumbersome machinery
of Section 4 of the Child Welfare Act.
In August last year, for example, hurried
telephone calls and high-speed car dashes
were needed between WA authorities to
declare a 17-year-old son of a Witness
couple a neglected child and a ward of
the State before doctors could give him
the necessary life-saving transfusions.
Other things earn the Jehovah's Wit-
nesses the title of the most unpopular
sect in Australia (and in the world).
Their children do not salute the flags
at school; they are “law-abiding.but do
not believe in Governments" ; they are
the most persistent of the hot-Gospelling
proselytisers; and they preach against
other denominations (all Governments
and Churches are Satan’s).
The Witnesses are the only sect re-
sponsible for bringing a religious freedom
case as far as Australia's High Court. In
1941 the Menzies Government decided
that the followers of Jehovah were
disseminating propaganda harmful to the
war effort and banned them. The
Witnesses fought the ban and in June,
1943, the High Court declared that the
Security Regulations which had been
invoked were “invalid in their entirety.”
But for all of- that their influence and
penetration is considerable. Their maga-
zine “Watchtower” sells a fantastic
4,000,000 fortnightly.
Since their beginnings in Australia
in 1903 the 16,000 Australian Witnesses


of Jehovah have had no say in the con-
trol of their theocratic organisation. Their
Rome is back at Columbia Heights in
Brooklyn, New York, where the directors
of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract
Society tell them what to do. Financially
the Australian Jehovah, Mr Douglas
Held, gets no more money than the rest
of the 22 administrative staff at their
Australian headquarters. There he told
The Bulletin he and the others only
receive an allowance of £5 12s. a month,
plus “the price of a suit of clothes a
year.' ood, lodging, laundry (but not
dry-cleaning) are all provided by the
society for the well-dressed staff. Scent-
ing the faint aroma of beer (or was it
wine?), Mr Held, replying to a delicate
question, said he occasionally “had a
glass, but, on the whole, we live pretty
carefully—we don’t smoke, either ; and
we don’t force our members to give it
up—we only strongly advocate them to
do so.”
The basic proselytising activity is the
home visitation method. Witnesses claim
that they visit 90 per cent, of Australian
homes “at least once a year.” Looking
at their log-book methods this seems
creditable. Most Witnesses are supposed
to log at least 12 hours a month. The
130 Special Pioneer Ministers who work
mainly in country areas receive an
allowance of £l4 a month for their 150
hours of house visitation. Usually local
Witnesses provide them with their board,
generally donating some offering to them
for the work, and they receive some
money from the sales of Witnesses’
propaganda which they buy from head
office “for less than cost.” As well as
the Special Pioneer Ministers there are
85 District Pioneer Ministers logging a
monthly 100 hours for a monthly
allowance of £2 16s.
All of the world’s 965,000 Witnesses
working in 185 countries are active
persuasive proselytisers who do not
believe in an immortal soul, who believe
that “religion was introduced into the
world by the Devil.” They are not
Trinitarians and they believe that Jesus
Christ was appointed as King of the
New World by Jehovah God and that
his kingdom is not an earthly State but a
heavenly and invisible one. Their chief
appealing doctrine, first preached by
Charles Russell, was the good news that
there is no hell.
Like their most closely related sect
the Seventh Day Adventists they
believe that the end of the world is at
hand. Their earlier calculations having
gone a little awry they are now awaiting
Armageddon, the battle between Christ
and his enemies.
Mr Held shrugged his shoulders when
we asked him why the Witnesses are so
idisliked. His reasons were that they stick
so closely to the Bible’s teaching, they
are prepared to support no war, they
do not get involved in any politics. But
the quality that Witnesses have over every
other sect or religion is the courage to
withstand persecution. Even the commu-
nists have not wiped them out.
Persecution does not frighten them.
The Nazi concentration camp comman-
der, Hoess, in his book “Commandant
of Auschwitz” describes how Witnesses
begged to be killed, flogged and punished,
so that they might “better be able to testify
to Jehovah.” When some were told of
their death sentence by the Nazis “they
wrung their hands, gazing enraptured up
at the sky, and constantly cried: ‘Soon
we shall be with Jehovah! How happy
we are to have been chosen! ’ ”
Brethren
Tn Melbourne late last month a 62-year-
A old English widow went on a
hour hunger strike in protest against the
alienation of her 23-year-old deaf and
dumb son Robert, by the Exclusive
Order of Brethren. The woman, Mrs
Doris Helem, conducted her hunger-strike
in her son’s car from 9.0a.m. to 10.30a.m.
in a dramatic bid to force the Exclusive
Brethren’s hand. But judging from their
behavior, she could still be there for all
the Brethren care. The reason why the
Brethren wanted to take Robert away
was because Mrs Helem, a Catholic,
owned a radio. It made no difference
that Robert was deaf and could
not hear the radio.
Also in Melbourne last month a woman
who vanished with her five children
wrote a letter to her husband telling him
she would never return to him. The
Brethren had persuaded her to leave her
husband because he had installed a tele-
vision set in the house. About the same
time in Perth an 81-year-old pensioner
was deserted by his wife because he was
not Exclusive.
Exclusives not only break up families if
they deem it necessary, they also attack
trade unionism. In Canberra early last
month before the Conciliation and
Arbitration Commission Court, a com-
pany owned by two members of the
Exclusive Order told the court that
“trade unionism was not of God . . .
Other prohibitions include haircuts and
cosmetics for women, eating with non-
members, watching TV and listening to
the radio, smoking, dancing, attending
sports meetings, or in fact belonging to
any church. With alcohol it’s a question
of follow-their-leader, an American Mr
James Taylor who, on all reports, is
partial to more than a few drops and
seems to receive some of the non-audited
note donations made at the Exclusives’
prayer-meetings. Both Sydney and Mel-
bourne are thought to shelter 2000 mem-
bers each and Brisbane about 1500. Like
most other sects they seem to come from
the middle-income brackets.
But the recent publicity showing the
Exclusives’ nation-wide family smashing
activities has caused many of them to
leave their groups. Like any sect, those
who have withstood the ' persecution”
will draw tighter together, become more
introvert —and weirder. If things follow
their normal course, their family-smash-
ing will become even more frenzied,
until there is some major eruption. To
date most Governments, anxious to keep
out of religious affairs, have been hoping
to ride out the storm, but on May 3 the
New Zealand Minister for Justice, Mr
Hannan, promised the Exclusives that if
the enticing of wives away from husbands
continued they may be charged with
“enticement or harboring.” “In such a
case a jury would be likely to award very
substantial damages.” As well as this,
Mr Hannan said, he would look at the
possibility of criminal proceedings.
The Exclusive Brethren are one of a
number of breakaways from the Ply-
mouth Brethren who were founded in
England in 1827 by an ex-Anglican clergy-
man called John Nelson Darby. He de-
cided to start a non-ritualistic group of
similar minded friends in Dublin who
thought that the whole of Christendom
had gone astray.
Doctrinally, they believe in the Trinity,
the Divinity of Christ, and of course the
imminent Second Coming. “Any time
now” is their attitude and when it
happens Christ will rule on earth for a
thousand years.
Mormons
Tn a two-storey red-brick residence in
Sydney’s comfortable suburb of
Wollstonecraft lives President Weldon
V. Moore, the head of the Mormon, or
Church of the Latter-Day Saints in Aus-
tralia. Looking more like a tall portly
businessman than a Bishop, President
Moore is the top man among Australia’s
rapidly growing 10,000 Mormons.
“We’re in the proselytising business”
President Moore told us. And looking
around the large efficient lounge-office
with its modern office equipment and
tape-recorders, it was obvious he meant
big business.
The Mormons, sometimes thought of as
the glamor-boys of Australia’s sects, are
really on the increase. Last year they
gained 400 converts and “this year we are
going to double it. All ready we have
gained 250 and it is only the end of the
fourth month.” The Latter-Day Saints
have improved on their old recruiting
technique, the two-by-two door-knock
approach. Now they expect their mem-
bers to gather a group of friends in their
homes and one or two of the many full-
time missionaries in Australia will come


and give a course of instruction in the
Bible, and of course the Book of
Mormon.
Contrary to popular belief, Mormon
missionaries are not paid but are sup-
ported by their families, friends, “or those
members who would like to support a
full-time missionary.” Their churches
look rich, they dress well, they make good
use of American gadgets, their cars are
late model.
Their headquarters are in the United
States of America in Salt Lake City,
Utah. It is here that the Mormons’ 12
Apostles appoint their bishops, and direct
their growing movement. It is in America
that they confidently expect Zion (or
the New Jerusalem) to be built and
Christ to reign personally on the earth.
There are several other articles in the
Mormon faith: the Trinity; the possible
salvation of all mankind through obedi-
ence to the Gospels ; Baptism (by immer-
sion) ; a kind of “apostolic succession”
by the laying on of hands on those who
are ordained to preach ; and the main-
tenance of “the same organisation that
existed in the primitive church, viz.,
apostles, prophets, pastors, teachers,
evangelists.”
It is because of their belief that they
are descendants of the 10 tribes of Israel
that they have made such a cult of
genealogy. (T’he greatest exponents of the
science oi genealogy are to be found
among Joseph Smith’s Mormons.) The
Latter-Day Saints actually began form-
ally on April 6, 1830, at Fayette, New
York. In 1846 under a Brigham Young's
leadership they made the famous 1500-
mile trek to the Salt Lake City in Utah
which is still a Mormon city.
In those days Mormons were poly-
gamous, but “we've had no trouble with
polygamy since 1890”, one of the young
Mormon missionaries told us recently.
This change is due more to the influence
of the US Government rather than to a
belief in the changed doctrine, and
isolated polygamous groups such as the
one raided at Short Creek, Arizona, in
1953, still, survive and insist they are true
“Joseph Smith Mormons.”
If you are colored you will not go down
too well with the Mormons. While they
allow colored people into their churches,
they cannot become ordained Ministers.”
Mormons believe that colored people are
descendants of Cain and “God would not
accept Cain's offering.” When The
Bulletin asked President Moore - for
some Biblical reference he indicated that
it was part of their continuance of pro-
phecy which proved this. Doctrinally
speaking the Mormons have one:
over the rest of the sects. If some point
of their belief is not sufficiently evidenced,
in the Bible they fall back on their Book
of Mormon, and if that is not good
enough their world head, President David
O. Mackay, “prophet, seer and revelator”
with his Divinely-inspired gift of pro-
phecy, will “reveal” further. This
system is an inbuilt guide against error.
Adventists
'T'he biggest and the most respectable
of all the Australian sects is the
Seventh Day Adventists. The only time
they come under the Press spotlight is
when some enterprising journalist can.
find a new angle on them, such as in 1958
when Pastor Kila Gulama, the vegetarian
“son of a Papuan head-hunter,” .passed
through Sydney on his way to the Ad-
ventists’ international conference in Ohio.
The Adventists claim 25,857 active
members in Australia. This figure does
not include the 50,000 attending their
“Sunday School” (always held on Satur-
day) or the 1507 pupils attending their
own 43 Primary schools ; the 851 stu-
dents in their 19 Secondary schools, or
the 300 in their tertiary school (who
have the rather unique advantage of
being able to obtain American degrees
without leaving Australia.) Since in 1951
their Australian number was 17,436,' this
gives them a percentage growth rate of
well over 40 per cent, in a ten-year period.
From the time of their advent in Aus-
tralia in 1885 they have always been
growing at a rate much faster than the
population.
The average Australian Adventist is
lower middle-class, more likely to be a
woman than a man, and probably
lives in areas like Sydney's western
suburbs. Still in the hot Gospel class he
tends to be more luke-warm in evangelis-
ing techniques than, say, a Mormon or a
Witness. Apart from public meetings
his chief evangelical weapon is the Voice
of Prophecy radio programmes which
are broadcast weekly over 55 stations.
If two people appear at your door with
a copy of “Sign of the Times” in their
hands you will know that that particular
copy, only one of a monthly 50,000, will
tell you that the Sabbath Day really be-
gins from sundown Friday and ends on
sundown Saturday.. What is more,
can be proved from the Old and New
Testaments. Apart from accusations
from people like the Catholic Church's
Dr Rumble that “Seventh Day Adven-
tists, in their dealings with the public,
would appear to have adopted the policy
of concealing their identity as long as
possible” and that “one thing they (the
evangelising door-knockers) will not say,
and that is that they are Seventh Day
Adventists.” Adventists suffer little pub-
lic criticism let alone persecution in Aus-
tralia. (In the USSR, on the other hand, -
W'here they are still very strong, three
Adventist married couples last November
had their children taken away from them
by the'courts because they were bringing
up. their .children as: “mental cripples.”
The parents had refused to send their
children to school .on Saturdays, join the
Communist Youth Movement or attend
outside school activities or cinemas. Even
the headmistress in the school indignantly
accused the Adventists of instilling in their
children “an incorrect attitude towards
labor.”)
Despite Dr Rumble's “hiding-their-
light-behind-a-bushel” accusation, any
Adventist will tell you only too quickly
what he believes: the Bible is the inspired
word of God; there is a Trinity ; Jesus
Christ is the Son of God born of a
virgin ; the Second Coming of Christ is
near and will be “literal, physical, and
visible to all mankind”; a man is only
resting when he dies and knows “not
anything”; God created the earth and
all life and the “evolutionary postulate”
is rejected ; the Millenium begins when
Christ returns where he will reign for
1000 years—after this Satan will be des-
troyed by “fire from God” and the
righteous will then inhabit the new earth.
A convert to Adventism is baptised
in a bathing suit and totally immersed.
Henceforth he will not work on Satur-
days but will attend a Communion Ser-
vice and he will hand over one-tenth
(a tithe) of his income. He will give up
smoking and drinking and if he is not
married the dangers of a mixed marriage
will be cogently pointed out to him. (If
you want to pursue your Temperance
studies further you might become one.
of the 15,000 monthly subscribers to
“Alert” which gives you “the latest
scientific information on smoking and
alcoholism” straight from the Signs Pub-
lishing Company at Warburton. Victoria.)
While they are “loyal to the Govern-
ment and the Queen” all Adventists are
non-combatants in wars and if war broke
out tomorrow many of the 23,996 mem-
bers trained in first-aid by the church
since 1950 would march straight into the
Army Medical Corps.
It is probably for their health activities
that Adventists are best known in Aus-
tralia. If you buy Granose cornflakes,
Sanitarium Peanut butter, Marmite, Pro-
tose, unfermented. grape juice, you may.
indirectly be giving money to the Seventh


Day Adventists. Although the Adven-
tists refused to give any figures, the
money flowing from the business activi-
ties to the church, their schools, hospitals
and general works of welfare must be
enormous. In Australia alone there are
eight factories, eight wholesale branches,
30 retail shops and four vegetarian
restaurants, employing over 1000 people.
The Adventists give three reasons for
the running of their only enterprise—the
Sanitarium businesses. The first is that
the Bible forbids unclean foods and it
is pointless to advocate certain sorts of
consumer goods if they are unobtain-
able. The second and more obvious
reason is the unspecified amount of
money going into the church’s activities
—the only shareholders, in fact, are the
faithful; and the third of little signifi-
cance today, is that the church’s business
activities provide an avenue for employ-
ment for those of the faithful who cannot
find a job because they observe the
Saturday Sabbath. In fact, the corner-
stone of the Seventh Day Adventist
Church seems to be their business enter-
prises, which provide the finance for their
schools.
Assemblies
Tn January, 1956, stage-hypnotist Fran-
quin wrote a remarkable letter to the
Sydney “Daily Telegraph” commenting
on the Pentecostalist Church members
(or the Assemblies of God). Franquin
wrote: “During the next two years while
we toured America, and especially in the
‘Bible Belt’ (parts of Texas, Oklahoma,
Arkansas, Mississippi, Alabama,
Georgia, and northern Florida) we saw
and heard many of these gentlemen. In
Jacksonville, Florida ... I was approached
by a group of men who sounded me out
on my religious beliefs or otherwise ...
Although my beliefs didn’t conform with
the learnings these gentlemen claimed to
have, they soon came to the point and
stated bluntly what they wanted with me.
“Briefly, it was that they had seen my
show 22 times ... and after a lot of back-
ing and filling they came out with a bald
proposition.
“They would back me, provide me with
a large Press and Public-Relations staff,
give my wife and me a Cadillac car each,
and after several months’ training in their
ideas of the accepted use of the Bible, they
proposed to exploit my abilities. I would
be an evangelist and healer. They even
promised me the biggest tent in the world,
triple-skinned and fully air-conditioned.
In return for my services, my share was
to be 25 per cent, of the gross, or a mini-
mum of 100,000 dollars a year tax free.”
Franquin, of course, refused.
Most Australians first heard of the
Assemblies of God when the Reverend
Mr Oral Roberts, the American Pente-
costalist, launched his campaign in Aus-
tralia in 1956. His tour was derisively
reported by all the Australian Press and
his faith-healing, through his God-given
electric power in his right arm, was
alleged by his followers to be the work
of the Lord.
Although Pentecostalists (who believe
their Church still has the original power
of the Apostles) as a whole
cannot be classed with Oral Roberts,
Divine Healing is a normal, frequent
part of the Pentecostalists’ belief. x-\t
any Pentecostalist gathering a member
may tell his brethren how he has been
healed by the Lord. As one Australian
leader, Pastor Duncan, said: “Not every-
one is cured, but there is quite a happy
proportion who are. You can fool some
of the people some of the time but, you
know . . . Anyway, healing is very
secondary to us.”
Secondary or not, it seems to be a con-
sistent means of recruiting members to
the Assemblies, and the really hot-
Gospellers are experts at it. Pastor Dun-
can was the president of a committee of
Pentecostalists who invited the Rev. A. C.
Valdez to Australia in 1952. Mr Valdez
claimed that in America he had heard
the Divine Voice saying to him: “Hands
are reaching out to you from Australia.”
After such a Divine prompting he offered
his “gift of healing” services to the Aus-
tralian Assemblies of God who, of
course, readily accepted.
Mr Valdez told his hearers at one of
his meetings that he had cured a cripple
in America in private instead of in pub-
lic and that he was feeling a little de-
jected about this. Of course, God rebuked
him for this, and according to Mr Val-
dez, the following conversation took
place. “God said to me, ‘Say, Bud, who’s
doing these goldarned miracles, you or
Me?’ I said: ‘You are, God.’ And God
replied: ‘Well, listen, Bud, you let Me
do things My way, and mind your own
business.’ Now wasn’t that wonderful!”
Can you say “Amen” he shouted to his
Australian audience.
Pastor Duncan found it difficult to
estimate the number of Pentecostalists but
one figure given by their own magazine,
“Pentecost,” places it at 10,000. In
America they claim to have 500,000
members and over five million through-
out the world. In Latin America they
have been extremely active and success-
ful. In Indonesia they claim to be the
largest sect there with 500,000 members.
Colored people generally are attracted
by this revivalist sect and along the north
coast of NSW and Queensland the
Assemblies are flourishing among the
aborigines. In NSW, aborigines are some-
times leaders of the sect, use the Banch
jalong language, sometimes preach the
superiority of the aboriginal to the de-
generate white man, and have come into
conflict with the mission-led United
Aborigines’ Mission.
Pentecostalists do not smoke, drink or
gamble, and describe themselves as being
“of much the same type as Billy
Graham.” They now have about 80
Assembly churches in Australia since
their linking up in 1925. They, of course,
believe in the imminence of the Millenial
Second Coming.
Christian Scientists
/CTosely linked with the Pentecosta-
lists in their attitude towards heal-
ing are the Christian Scientists. They
are now more properly described as cold-
Gospellers which partly accounts for their
ignorance of their own number in Aus-
tralia. But unlike the Pentecostalists they
seem to completely repudiate medicine
and rely mainly (if they are true followers
of their 1821 founder, Mary Baker) on
Spiritual Healing. New South Wales is
their strongest centre where they have
20 churches. In the rest of Australia,
they have 14 churches in Victoria, 10 in
Queensland, two in South Australia three
in Tasmania and Western Australia and
one in Canberra. All of them look to the
Mother Church in Boston for Guidance,
publications, and the records which they
use on their “The Bible Speaks to You
Programmes” played over 14 Australian
radio stations weekly. Mrs Eddy, nee
Mary Baker, is one of many people who
started their churches after revelations
from God.
Depending on what sort of kingdom
you are looking for, when you want it to
arrive and how much emotion and effort
you are prepared to put into it any one
of Australia’s sects will provide it for
you. If you like you can become one of
Australia’s 3000 Christadelphians who
are also expecting the Second Coming of
Christ pretty soon. You can join Father
Devine and his followers. You can believe
his claim that he is God or you can believe
his mother who said that “he thinks he
is God.” You can join the dying
British Israelites who regard the Euro-
pean Common Market as a calamity
inspired by Satan. They claim to have
all creeds in their off-beat sect and believe
that the modern Celto-Saxon races are
literal descendants from the Children of
Israel. If you are not satisfied with your
church you can start your own —buy a
Bible, seek a revelation from God, and
you’re in the proselytising business.


For the news you need each week
from every important news front
subscribe to TIME, the weekly
News Magazine.
SPECIAL
HALF-
PRICE
SUBSCRIPTION
OFFER
is** 6
IV# 1
(to new subscribers only)
40
COPIES OF TIME
FOR ONLY
50'-
Hand this coupon to your newsagent
or bookseller or send to Time Life
International (Aust.) Pty. Limited,
32-34 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Please send me 40 weeks of TIME at my
special introductory rate.
NAME
ADDRESS
STATE
I enclose payment
1625
New York Newsletter
PICASSO AND THE PRESIDENT
A different sort of White House visitor these days
From GEORGE McGANN
Qince we are all very Picasso-minded
in New York it was almost with a
feeling of local pride that we heard the
news from Moscow that the old master
had been awarded the Lenin (formerly
Stalin) Peace Prize.
Ironically, although Picasso’s politics
are popular in Russia his art is not and
his works are rarely displayed there.
Except, of course, for his dove of peace
which the Communists have pre-empted
for propaganda purposes. On the other
hand, although Picasso’s politics are
poison in America, his' works are
currently enjoying unprecedented public
display and acclaim.
To honor the Spanish-born artist’s 80th
birthday, nine of New York’s finest
private galleries have joined in presenting
the largest and most comprehensive
Picasso showing in history. Each gallery
is devoted to a different phase of Picasso’s
astonishingly diversified career in paint-
ing and sculpture. The works displayed
have been gathered from museums,
galleries and private collections in Europe
and this country. The opening of the
Picasso showing was a social and artistic
event of the first magnitude in New
York art circles, which boast the world’s
most lavish spenders.
The scene along East 57th Street and
up Madison and Park Avenues to the
galleries on 77th Street was reminiscent
of Paris on a warm spring night. Women
dressed in the latest French originals
and men in evening dress carried cham-
pagne glasses from one gallery to another
as they made the grand Picasso tour.
I joined the throngs making the tour one
champagne-less afternoon ■ a few days :
later and found them to be nothing, if
not enthusiastic. They seemed to have
the feeling of an historic occasion. One
dealer remarked that people had little
difficulty understanding Picasso now,
although that would not have been true
20 years ago.
A factor in their understanding might
have been an illuminating hour-long tele-'
vision broadcast by the National Broad-
casting Company on the eve of the
Picasso showings. This major network
has reacted sharply to recent Washington
strictures concerning the “vast waste-
land” of TV programming and has un-
dertaken many serious projects, such as
the Picasso presentation, to raise the
intellectual and cultural content of its
productions. A brilliant commentary by
the “New York Times” art critic accom-
panied the televising, in natural colors,
of the Picassos and helped the viewer
through the thorny patches of the
painter’s Cubist and other periods.
The television critic of the local Hearst
newspaper, the “New York Journal-
American,” took sour exception to the
programme’s “fawning devotion” to
Picasso and its failure to mention his
“open love for communism” a strange
devotion, it seems to me, in view of
Picasso’s equally open love of sheer
profit. However, the McCarthy era has
expired, thank heavens, so it is unlikely
that the NBC will have to undergo
retaliation from the Hearst Press or the
rest of the professional anti-communists
for its temerity in presenting a pro-
fessional Leftist’s art to the American
masses.
An even more remarkable bit of
Picasso propaganda has been published
here in the form of a book weighing six
and one-half pounds, costing thirty
dollars and called “Picasso’s Picassos.”
(See John Olsen’s review in The Bulletin
of March 3.)
This is a remarkable volume, written
and photographed by David Douglas
Duncan, an American confidante of the


I
J
m
m
Bl
HIGHER
BONUS
RATES
again for M.L.C. policy holders
The 75th Annual Report of the M.L.C. is an outstanding summary of
three-quarters of a century of progress. Bonus rates are up again for the sixth
consecutive year, despite last year’s adverse economic conditions. In fact, the M.L.C.
actually established new business records.
A record £15,550,000 was added to participating policies an increase
of £2,000,000 over the previous year.
New business written by the M.L.C. during 1961 totalled £103,400,000. Sums
assured under M.L.C. policies, including the 1961 bonus,
now exceed £785 million.
Looking back over the growth of the M.L.C. it is significant to note it took
68 years to reach the first £lOO million of assets, but only 7 years to reach the
second £lOO million. In every way this, the 75th Annual Report
of the M.L.C., reflects the prosperity and solidarity of a vigorous company
which, with each year, has gone from strength to strength . . .
and shall continue to do so.
THE MUTUAL LIFE AND CITIZENS*
ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
and for fire and general insurance
THE MLC FIRE AND GENERAL
INSURANCE COMPANY PTY. LIMITED
MLCISO2-18
old master. Duncan was given access by
Picasso to the contents of a shuttered
room in his villa at La Californie, in
Cannes. Duncan brought out 532 can-
vases, never seen by anyone but the artist,
and photographed all of them, many in
color. The earliest painting, “Flight to
Egypt,” was done by Picasso in 1895,
when he was 14, and the latest was done
by the ageless genius several months
before Duncan saw it in Cannes.
Duncan, incidentally, estimated the
current market value of the cache he
has photographed at not less than
$25,000,000. Picasso is understood to
have hidden at least as many more
paintings in his chateau at Aix-en-
Provence, valued at roughly the same
amount. For a professed proletarian,
Picasso possesses a money-making touch
which must be the envy of most capi-
talists.
Most of the Picassos on display in New
York are owned by millionaire collectors.
The most famous “political” canvas,
“Guernica,” is in the possession of the
Museum of Modern Art here, which
owes its existence to the Rockefeller
fortune. Although this painting repre-
sents Picasso’s savage reaction to the
brutality of Fascist bombings of Spain
in the Civil War of 1937, the communist
party has condemned its “repugnant
monstrosities.” It is true that Picasso
turned down all efforts to get him here
for the current showings, but he has also
resisted all efforts over the years to in-
duce him to make what he called “the
beautiful fraternal voyage” to Moscow.
The New Egg-head Trend
The Picasso excitement ruffling New
York is but a facet of America’s current
“cultural explosion.” Serious music is en-
joying enormous popularity in the back-
ground of the din set up by the Rock and
Rollers and the Twisters. Symphony
orchestras are springing up everywhere
(even in Texas). Sales of long-playing
recordings of operas, symphonies and
chamber music are at an all-time high.
Amateur music groups are a nation-wide
hobby. Almost as many people are per-
forming Bach on weekends as are playing
indoor bowls.
The astonishing sales of serious “paper-
back” books constitute a phenomenon of
the publishing business which no one ex-
pected and no one can quite explain. The
mass-circulation popular magazines are
in serious trouble, principally because of
the competition of television, but the
intellectually-oriented “little” magazines
are doing extremely well. Even the live
theatre reflects the egg-head trend. The
stimulating egg-head London play “A
Man For All Seasons,” based on the life
of Sir Thomas More, won the acclaim
of all critics on Broadway this season—
and was a gratifying box-office success.
The Affluent Society is in the middle of a
great cultural boom.
The Kennedy Administration has
helped enormously to create this new
climate of intellectuality in the country.
Leadership in the area of culture is now
just as potent as it is in the area of
business and politics. In the absence of
a royal family, the bright, handsome and
numerous Kennedy clan have been able
to establish a tone and a fashion in this
country, comparable with the gilt splen-
dor of Edwardian or Victorian England.
The putter is no longer the symbol of
the White House. In place of the tycoons
of oil, of steel and of finance who gathered
around Ike we now have the extra-
ordinary spectacle of poets, playwrights
and Nobel prize-winners filing into the
White House for formal evenings with
the President and his lovely young wife.
For instance, Pablo Casals played his
’cello for the Kennedys in his first
appearance in the US since 1904, when
another Harvard man, Theodore Roose-
velt, occupied the White House.
Marian Anderson, Robert Frost, Carl
Sandburg and Thorton Wilder have all
appeared at the citadel of the new fron-
tier, as dinner guests and performers.
Playwright Wilder expressed the “sur-
prised self-respect” of the artists who
have received White House invitations
since the Kennedys moved in. “Think of
the images that can be formed in the
minds of American youth, who seem to
have incredible passions for basketball
and television,” Wilder exclaimed. “Now
with Frost and Carl Sandburg being
honored, it can mean a change in our
inner vveatner.”
Wilder said he was “filled with great
pleasure that Washington is becoming
like a lighthouse on the hills for the things
that we writers stand for.” Then the
author of the best American play of his
generation, “Our Town,” added with a
characteristic grin:
“The President thought he was having
trouble recently with the steel manufac-
turers. Now that he is dealing with artists
and writers he will discover what trouble
really is.”


Australia Revisited
THE BEACH
GENERATION
By CRAIG McGREGOR
Craig McGregor is an Australian
writer now living in London who
recently revisited Australia and wrote
these impressions for an English
magazine.
The slimmest men s ties .n .... ..orid
today are sold in Australia. It's
as handy a symbol as any of just
how much with it the country
is determined to be, and just how much
it has changed in the last five years.
When I went back to Australia recently
after years of expatriatism I didn’t notice
much change at first: the streets seemed
to be full of the old familiar figures
wearing open-necked sports shirts and a
chip on the shoulder. But the structure
of Down Under society has been
transformed, and it didn't take long to
feel it. The change wasn’t just in the
glossy new skyscrapers in Sydney and
Melbourne, nor the slim jim ties and
sharp lightweight suits in the shop win-
dows. Nor was it the two-tone Holdens
jammed bumper to bumper at the park-
ing meters, the local rock idols and syrup-
voiced disc jocks and gaudy espresso
bars and high-pressure TV commercials.
It was more that at every party I went
to the men wore dark suits, nearly every
bus carried expensively dressed women
shoppers, nearly every pub had its quota
of white-collar men. Australia today is no
longer the land of the workers ; it is the
land of the businessman.
The change has been going on for long
enough. The post-war boom years have
broken down the old egalitarian society,
which was a hangover from the pioneer-
ing and colonial days and became
rigidified by the depression of the Thirties.
(The tired old hacks of the State Labor
Parties still talk this archaic language
of the class war, while their sons listen
to Dave Brubeck and buy Volkswagens
on the never-never and wonder what
Dad’s talking about.) It was dominated
by the working man: tough, loud-
mouthed and individualistic, the beer-
and-races philistine with his ex-service-
man’s badge in the lapel of his cardigan
who is depicted in Alan Seymour’s recent
Stratford play “The One Day of The
Year.” Today this society is being rapidly
changed into a predominantly middle-
class one in which wealth and status dis-
tinctions have replaced the old class
divisions and which shows every sign of
developing the brash materialism of con-
temporary America. The typical Aus-
tralian today is a youngish business
executive with nice button-down shirts,
last year’s Holden, a first-name acquain-
tance with the local bank accountant
and a wife in the suburbs.
So far, so good ; many English
observers, such as Norman Mackenzie,
have noticed this. But they have also
concluded that this means the end of
Australia’s egalitarianism, the end of the
democratic myth of “mateship” which
Australians have given to the world. Are
they right? Will Sydney become just
another affluent society like, say, Orping-
ton?
Much of the evidence is on their side.
Private schools (the equivalent of English
public schools) have never been so
popular ; one of the few genuine snobs
I’ve met was a young oil company
trainee from Melbourne who had been
taken in by all the guff about prefects
and leadership and discipline and
seriously believed that old boys of
private schools were instantly recognisable
as “a cut above” State pupils. A dispro-
portionate percentage of professional and
businessmen come from well-regarded
private schools. It’s suddenly become im-
portant to live in the “right” suburb, and
land values have soared. The newspapers
publish page after page of society gossip
and photographs ; it becomes imperative
for smart young things to have their
coming-out parties, engagements, wed-
dings, and first births in the women’s
magazines and Sunday papers. The
successive stages of status snobbery, from
colored toilet-paper to American car to
exclusive ski club to power launch to a
maid in the mansion, are becoming more
and more important. Australians seem to
be discovering the delights of exclusive-
ness.
All this means the end of an era. The
huge success of a book like “They’re a
Weird Mob,” which nostalgically defines
the working man as the dinkum Aussie,
depends upon the image being outdated
like Andy Capp here.
Also, as the nation becomes more
commercialised the Australian finds he
has to keep up with his peers, not because
he wants to, but because it’s important to
his job. The traditional pressure towards
conformity at home means that conditions
are ideal for producing a nation of slick-
suited, empty-souled organisation men.
Will this happen? I don’t think so.
During my stay in Sydney I found that
Australians are already sceptical of the
new role in which they have been cast;
it’s no accident, for instance, that Feiffer
and the “Mad” cult are so popular. The
basic reasons, however, reach back to
those same social forces which should
prevent Australia becoming just another
shoddy imitation of the American (or
English) image.
The first of these is the purposeful
hedonism of Australians, especially the
younger ones. My headmaster used to
reflect darkly upon the way beaches,
sunshine and a predilection for public
holidays gave Australians a picnic-day


attitude to life ; a friend of mine suggests
“All the Fine Young Hedonists” or “The
Beach Generation” as titles for his con-
temporaries. They are both close to an
important truth: in the end Australians
prefer having a good time to anything
else. Most of them are quite content to
work hard for what they consider the
necessities of life a car, a home, a
TV set and then leave the coronaries
to some other silly bastard. Even most of
the aspiring young professional men I
know are frank materialists who want
money more than success or prestige. It
seems possible that Australian society
will always be pleasure-directed rather
than status-directed.
Then there is the prosperity of the
Australian worker. Wealth is the para-
mount arbiter of social position at home,
and so long as the skilled tradesman earns
as much as, and perhaps more than, the
white-collar worker, the other distinc-
tions between middle class and working
class seem trivial. (There is no upper
class, only degrees of middleness.) The
traditional proletariat has never really
existed ; there has never been that huge
mass of industrial workers which forms
the mainstay of the fish-and-chips, Billy
Butlin, picture-postcard, Blackpool, cloth-
cap and mass-newspaper industries in
Great Britain. The Australian worker has
always been more independent, more
aggressive, more ambitious ; he has
always been an' incipient bourgeois. The
only thing which could upset the status
quo would be a serious depression. That
is why the Menzies Government nearly
lost the last election (it retains power by
two seats): the social position of the
ordinary Australian depends upon high
living standards, and for the first time
since the war he saw this position
seriously threatened.
Finally, the tradition of equality is so
strong in Australia that it would take
decades of more intensive class stratifica-
tion than is now going on to wipe it
out altogether. Nations live by the myths
they believe in, and few people have
yet questioned the national myth of
mateship and Jack’s-as-good-as-his mas-
ter. Most Australians aren't sardonic,
suntanned stockmen or easy - going
lifesavers, but that is the image they
cling to. Australians just take it for
granted that they are friendly, unsnobbish
blokes with no “bullshit” about them, be-
cause they believe it, they usually are.
These, perhaps, are negative considera-
tions. Are there any forces combating
the nation's crumbling egalitarianism?
There are a few. The State education
systems are in the main progressive and
unbedevilled by the hypocrisies of
Britain’s three-grade system ; entrance to
the universities is easy. (Any schoolboy
with ability can get a Government scholar-
ship ; one in nine gets tertiary education,
compared to one in twenty=two here.)
The Hite which is slowly emerging from
this background could well reflect its
unprivileged origins.
The lessening isolation of the nation
has also made a difference: whereas
Australia has been emotionally radical
and intellectually conservative, the influx
of migrants and new ideas has made the
people more receptive to intellectual non-
conformity. There have even been Ban-
the-Bomb marches on Canberra and the
start of New Left groups in the cities!
On a more prosaic level, most of the
hundreds of thousands of Australians
who come overseas (and there are enough
in London alone to stock a small town)
go home determined not to let the furled-
umbrella pettinesses of English society
become established there.
But in the end Australia’s egalitarianism
will depend upon the vitality of the
tradition itself, upon how deeply people
feel about it. It's too soon to say there's
been any basic change in attitude ; per-
haps in another twenty years, if Aus-
tralia escapes a European nuclear
holocaust, we'll know.
The other change which has occurred
in the last five years is subtler and
harder to diagnose ; it has something to
do with the increasing sophistication of
Australian life. There is a feeling of old
moulds cracking, the stale and insular
moulds which have kept the nation a
backwater of late-Victorian culture for
so long. Australia has suddenly become
part of the Western world, and it feels
like it. Striptease clubs, late pub-closing,
art cinemas, expressways, continental
restaurants, coffee bars with abstracts on
the walls, night-clubs, intellectual maga-
zines, foreign-policy headlines, the hectic
pace of life in Sydney whether you
like these things or not, they indicate a
change. The days of the wowser have
gone forever.
The most obvious sign of this new
maturity, however, is what has been
rather optimistically called the Australian
“cultural renaissance.” The judgment is
optimistic because nobody knows how
permanent this artistic explosion is ; the
experience of the 1890 s makes Aus-
tralians cautious of false dawns. Ex-
plosion, however, there has been. In the
last few years the country has produced
Patrick White in the novel, Sidney Nolan
and Arthur Boyd in painting, Joan
Sutherland in opera, Judith Wright and
A. D. Hope in poetry, Ray Lawler in
drama: an impressive list, and it could
easily be lengthened. But much more
significant has been the prolific creativity
in all the arts which has made these
individual achievements possible.
Painting is a good example. Nolan
is very highly regarded overseas at the
moment, but most of the best artists
prefer to work in Australia itself: Russell
Drysdale, Eric Smith, Clifton Pugh,
William Dobell and others. Behind them
come hundreds of younger or lesser artists
who are continually holding exhibitions,
contributing to international shows,
entering for contests and selling to the
local businessmen. They have created a
climate of activity which is both re-
markable and exciting ; in Melbourne
and Sydney there are scores of young
artists who live in communities, exhibit
in local coffee bars and manage to live
by their painting.
This creativity has begun to extend
to other fields, though industry in general
has yet to be won over. Australia is now
producing first-class potters and poster-
painters, architects and stage designers ;
the newspaper cartoonists have improved
considerably; some Tasmanian furniture
is almost Danish in its purity of line.
The intellectual magazines have also be-
gun to appear, in the form of “Nation,” a
high-class fortnightly and the Bulletin,
now a reinvigorated and lively weekly.
All this is but a beginning. It remains
to be seen whether a creative and in-
tellectual tradition can be built up which
will consistently modify and direct the
materialist one. Perhaps a hopeful sign
is that although Australians still have
to make their reputations overseas,
most of them now return home. Once
they would have settled in London and
become anglicised, like one writer I
know who left home eight years ago and
still talks of Australia as “uncivilised.”
He’s a little like the spade ties everyone
wore before the slim jims came in: old-
fashioned.


NO PROFIT IN HIS OWN COUNTRY
Fighting every step of the way in the theatre jungle
A/fR Tibor Rudas’s production of “Snow
White and the Seven Dwarfs” is a
goose laying golden eggs —it has grossed
£250,000, more than any show except
“My Fair Lady”—at a time when most
theatre people have thrown away their
magic wands. It is a pumpkin turned
into a profitable line in fairy coaches
which has been on the road for more
than two years, playing to good houses
all over the Commonwealth. It has just
opened in New Zealand, will go from
there to Japan, Hong Kong, Malaya,
India and South Africa, and in two years’
time may be back to begin the trek
around Australia again.
All this is in spite of the fact that
everyone told Mr Rudas that pantomime
was finished or, at least, that it was im-
possible to play panto, at any time except
Christmas.
If “Snow White” is a phenomenon, so
also is Mr Rudas, the secret of whose
success seems to be to do what everyone
else says is impossible. Mr Rudas and
his wife came here in 1948 for a 10
weeks’ engagement with the Tivoli cir-
cuit, but stayed. Now from an office at
Railway Square, Sydney, he runs his
enterprises which at the moment include
136 people on the pay-roll, including 50
dancers “that’s more trained dancers
than anyone else in this country, William-
sons, TV, the lot, put together.” As well
as “Snow White” he has the “Ziegfeld
Follies” on the road. It will go next to
Japan. A group of seven Australian girls,
the Rudas dancers, who have been on the
Ed Sullivan TV show in the United States
and at the Palladium in London, are at
present in Italy.
All this should permit Mr Rudas to
begin calling himself something rather
fancy, such as an entrepreneur. “Huh!”
says Mr Rudas, “everyone in Australia
is an entrepreneur these days. Someone
starts a hasty-tasty joint. He makes a
bit of money out of it and turns it into
a night-club. Then he’s busy getting
overseas acts and calling himself an
entrepreneur. Without ever having been
in a theatre in his life. Huh!” Mr
Rudas’s English isn’t perfect yet, but
there is a lot of it.
He is an alert, bespectacled man with
his indignation always at simmering
point. He can afford to be indignant
about hasty-tasty entrepreneurs, because
he has been in theatre all his life. He
began at the age of six in the children's
choir of the Budapest Opera House. When
his voice broke at the age of 14 he turned
to modern dancing ; his wife trained as
a dancer in the classical tradition at the
Budapest Opera House.
Although the Rudases have been here
for 14 years, it was only by chance that
they stayed. “Now I could tell you a
sweet story about deciding we loved
Australia as soon as we came here and
wanted to live here,” he said, “but it
wouldn’t be true. Sure we like living
here now, but that is nothing. We came
from England, where we had been since
the war, for 10 weeks in 1948. In those
10 weeks the communists took over in
Hungary. We lost our passports. We
couldn’t go anywhere, so we decided to
stay five years, get Australian nationality
and then move on again with our act.”
Mr and Mrs Rudas began with a danc-
ing school which is still the basis of their
enterprise. “But you can’t teach girls
and then offer them nothing,” Mrs Rudas
said. “My husband just wanted to do
some choreography and perhaps produc-
tion for someone else. He didn’t want to
be a big businessman. But nobody wanted
our dancers and nobody wanted my hus-
band to work for them.”
“Let me tell you,” Mr Rudas said, “the
theatre in Australia is a jungle and they’ve
made us fight every step of the way.
We’re doing all right now, although
everything I have is mortgaged. We’re
doing all right because a large part of
my business is outside Australia.
A Crumbling Structure
“Don’t get any idea that I am doing
anything for the Australian theatre, or
that I can do anything for it. All I am
doing is adding another brick to a struc-
ture which is crumbling anyway. The only
service I can ever render the Australian
theatre is to say what I think is wrong
with it.
“Theatre will die in Australia within
five years,” he predicted confidentially.
“How long is it since television came?
Five years. In another five years you
will have a whole generation who have
never been to a theatre in their lives. And
they won’t even want to watch television
either because you won’t have any decent
artists for it, unless you train them on the
stage. Television is dying already.”
Mr Rudas said that when he came to
Australia some of the theatres still tried
to build up consistent audiences.
“The Tivoli was vaudeville and it got
the same audiences in show after show.
But what do you have now? Margot
Fonteyn followed by a nude show. People
don’t know what to expect, so they stay
away. Go to ‘St Joan’. Nobody there.
‘The Desert Song’—deserted. All the
managements do now is bring shows from
overseas. They build up nothing here.
“Do you know there is hardly a decent
producer in this country? And, more
important, there is only one top-rank
scenic artist. If he decided to leave the
country we are finished. Outside of the
capitals there are no stage crews. In
smaller places I have used wharf-laborers
who have been shifting refrigerators and
stuff like that on the wharves all day.”
Mr Rudas says theatre seats are too
expensive.
“All the managements worry about are
the few thousand people who can afford
high prices,” he said. “They would
rather have 400 people at 255. a ticket
than 1600 people at 10s. If tickets are
255. each, it costs a young man nearly
£4 or £5 to take his girl to the theatre.
So he takes her to a night-club instead,
because it’s better value. Where are the
thousands of people who can afford 10s.
or 12s. for a theatre ticket? They are
not going to trail up to an uncomfortable
seat in the gallery, so they go to their
RSL club instead.”
Mr Rudas said that the big manage-
ments did not worry particularly about
their losses. “Williamsons own half of
Collins Street,” he said. “If they have an
unsuccessful show, they can charge their
losses against taxation. Only one or two
of the managements have anyone who has
ever been in the theatre. Williamsons
have John McCallum. He’s been an actor.
He should know what the theatre wants.
Look at the Tivoli board now. All
businessmen.
“If I seem to be getting ahead and get-
ting my shows into the big theatre, it’s
only a fluke. A times comes when these
managements haven’t got anything to put
into their theatres. Then they say ‘Ring
Rudas and see if he's got anything.' They
don’t treat their theatres as theatres, but
as business enterprises.”
Does Mr Rudas see any light in this
darkness? Surprisingly, he sees a glimmer
in the Elizabethan.
“If the Elizabethan would stop pro-
ducing flops and put their money into
helping professional companies more, the
theatre might eventually come to some-
thing here,” he said. “The Elizabethan
should be subsidising, perhaps not com-
panies, but just individual productions
which they think are worth helping. It
should also be acting as a liaison with the
education departments so that children
get the habit of theatre. Then things
might get better. Say in 10 years’ time.
But I don’t really think they will. I really
think the theatre is finished.”
PATRICIA ROLFE


Around Melbourne
THE RELEASE OF JOHN BRYAN KERR
Adelaide has had its Stuart case,
Tasmania has had its Orr case,
but it may surprise you to know that
here in Melbourne we too can have
our grand passions. Any day now
John Bryan Kerr will step out of
Pentridge Gaol a free man. Perhaps
you have forgotten the name. We
haven't forgotten here. Nothing like
this case has ever stirred up such a
swamp of local emotion.
This was partly due to the fact that
at 24 Kerr was a very engaging young
man, remarkably different from the
type that is usually mixed up in
murder trials. His address was right.
He came from Washington Street,
Toorak. His school was right. He
went to Scotch College. He was a
radio announcer and he had the good
looks of the playboy-actor.
But there was more to it than that.
Kerr had an overpowering, volatile
personality. He was thoughtful and
articulate. For example, when his last
appeal failed before the Privy Council
he said: “Whatever happens now,
the fact is that I did not kill the girl.
If I stay here for the rest of my life I
will say that, because it is the truth
and cannot be altered.”
The story began at 5 a.m. on De-
cember 28, 1949. A middle-aged clerk
found the body of Elizabeth Maureen
Williams, a 20-year-old typist on the
beach at Albert Park. She was nearly
nude and she had been strangled. Kerr
was charged with her murder. There
is no need here to go into all the
lengthy details of the trial. The police
case rested on their report that Kerr
had made a confession. It included
such words: “I put my hands around
her throat. I am strong. I have big
shoulders and I don’t need padding in
my suits . . .”
Kerr denied and repeatedly denied
that he had killed her. There were two
trials and the juries disagreed at each.
Kerr’s father, a Navy clerk, had gone
through all his money. But Melbourne
was gripped by this trial. City busi-
nessmen sent the father cheques for
£lOO. Total strangers handed him
money in the streets. The kindness
was embarrassing. But at the third
trial the jury found Kerr guilty. He
was sentenced to death. This was com-
muted to 20 years’ gaol and now after
remissions for good behavior he is
ready to go free.
Yet what a remarkable 12 years it
has been. The State Government has
been under constant pressure to have
the case re-opened. Go to any Vic-
torian newspaper office and you will
find that the file on John Bryan Kerr
is almost as fat as the files on Mr
Menzies and Mr Calwell.
In 1956 the “Argus” staged an on-
slaught that went on for months.
Some issues read like Kerr special
editions. We learned how he had been
studying journalism and short-story
writing. We learned how his friends in
radio —John Ford, Fred Tupper, John
McMahon and others had never de-
serted him. He told how they helped
with the Pentridge concerts and staged
shows like Noel Coward’s “Private
Lives.” Sometimes the Kerr pro-
motions at Pentridge sounded much
more interesting than the fare at Her
Majesty’s.
TTe dropped names, too. The Harold
Holts, old neighbors in Washing-
ton Street, had sent greetings. He was
hoping for visits from Garnet and
John Carroll. And a regular visitor
was the talented Melburnian actress,
June Clyne. The “Argus” splashed
Miss Clyne’s picture and quoted her
as saying: “He is a wonderful person.
I’m proud to be a friend of John
Bryan Kerr. I have never doubted his
innocence for one second. I’ll stake
my life on it.”
The “Argus” tried desperately and
with vast use of space to have the case
reopened. Over four days it ran a
readership poll. “Are you in favor
of State Government review of the
case of John Bryan Kerr?” 3521
readers voted FOR, 367 AGAINST.
The “Argus” claimed there was a
20-page dossier of new evidence. A
summary of this went to every mem-
ber of the State Cabinet. The Attorney-
General, Mr Rylah, put the new evi-
dence to Mr D. I. Menzies, QC, Mr
T. F. Mornane the Crown Solicitor
and Mr H. A. Winneke, QC, the
Solicitor-General. All agreed that the
evidence submitted did not justify the
reopening of the case.
The “Argus” cried this was not good
enough. There should be an open
judicial inquiry for the sake of
the public conscience. But the battle
was lost.
So John Bryan Kerr remained at
Pentridge. Visitors to the gaol re-
ported that always he looked smart,
and even his prison uniform was re-
markably well cut. He seemed master
of his situation at Pentridge. He had
one extraordinary triumph. He repre-
sented Victoria in a debating contest
against Queensland.
The other two members of Victoria’s
team were lawyers, Mr B. Burke and
Mr A. J. Missen. For Kerr’s con-
venience the debate took place at
Pentridge. The subject was: “A man’s
destiny is shaped only by himself.”
Victoria took the negative and won.
Speaking emotionally Kerr said :
“Life is not a gigantic wheel of
fortune. Man is not subject to the
cruel laws of chance. Man is the
handiwork of God. He has the singu-
lar gift of free will. Luck is like a
ship that passes in the night it has
no lasting effect. There is no doubt
that man is master of his fate and the
captain of his soul.” The prisoners
cheered and gave him the longest
ovation of the night.
In recent months there have been
stories that Kerr is fascinated by tele-
vision. He has spent five years study-
ing all he can about it, in the hope
of becoming a TV announcer. Al-
though Kerr, of course, has never
seen a television set. There has even
been a suggestion that one commercial
TV station has a contract ready and
that as soon as he comes out Kerr
will personally tell his story on the
screen. This is extremely hard to
believe, but from what we have seen
over the past 12 years Kerr is most
unlikely to go into shy retirement.
He is not a shy, retiring man. He is
certain to make some attempt to state
his innocence.
The arguments still continue as to
whether he is innocent or guilty and
there are some who feel he should
never be released. Most times it is
better to let prisoners depart from
gaol as quietly as possible, but this
one is different and it is impossible not
to wait and watch with a good deal
of fascination.
BATMAN


FORUM
THOSE ALDERMASTON
MARCHERS
When the zeal turns sour
By PETER WOLLEN in London
f~\N the second day of the 1958 Aldermaston march, despite snow, ridicule
and the lac\ of organisation about 500 people turned out for the long
pull from Hounslow to Maidenhead. (That first march was in reverse. It
started with a rally in Trafalgar Square, then snaked out westwards through
the suburbs.) On the second day last year there were 30,000 marchers. Even
more are expected this weekend.
Yet, though numerical support for the Campaign for Nuclear Disarma-
ment has increased, the hope of achievement has diminished. Scepticism has
set in among the devotees themselves. When and why was their zeal soured?
What new measures can the campaign find for effective advance?
Tn February, 1958, the Campaign for
Nuclear Disarmament was launched
at a meeting in the Central Hall, West-
minster. Together with overflows 5000
were present. The campaign was the out-
come of a meeting between the sponsors
of the National Campaign against Nuclear
Tests —including Earl Russell, Dr Donald
Soper, J. B. Priestly and prominent
writers and scientists, among them A. J. P.
Taylor, Commander Stephen King-Hall,
Professor Sir lulian Huxley. Links were
established with similar movements
abroad, particularly in the United States,
where for some years protests against
White House nuclear policy had taken the
form of refusals to pay taxes and forays
into the Nevada desert. CND soon took
the project for an Aldermaston march
under its wing.
The peak figure reached during the
1958 march was 5000. The organisers
were surprised even by this. There were
no baggage trains, inadequate accommo-
dation, no notion of the potential
response. If the strength of the first march
was surprising, the strength of the second
was staggering. The number of marchers
leapt to 15,000 on the last day. The Press
and bystanders, who the previous Easter
had been scornful or amused, were forced
to reassess. Most of the newcomers were
strikingly young, many of them teenagers.
Even those opposed to CND's objectives
felt that galvanisation of England’s jaded
political life was a healthy prospect. After
Easter 1959 the campaign could no longer
be ignored.
Support for CND has continued to
grow steadily. Its main strength is still
in London and the universities, but there
is now also a dense nation-wide base.
The most pronounced spates of new
adherents have closely followed an-
nouncements of the resumption of nuclear
tests. The Russian 50-megaton blast last
autumn stimulated 3000 letters in one
week to the London headquarters alone.
Organisation, however, is loose and there
are no precise membership returns. The
most reliable areas of support are gener-
ally middle class Hampstead, for
instance, has the most flourishing Lon-
don branch—but working-class adherence
has been rising as recruiting techniques
improve.
Many attempts have been made to
discredit the campaign by attacks on the
character of its supporters. But there are
only a few communists, hooligans and
beatniks. The discipline of demonstrators
in the face of mockery, fatigue and even
police provocation has proved their
responsibility.
As the support for the campaign has
grown it has become obvious that more is
demanded than a single annual march.
Agitation has become sustained through-
out the year and experiments have been
made with fresh and diverse techniques
of persuasion. This has been especially
necessary since the mass media are almost
entirely in the hands of opponents of the
campaign and reporting has been sporadic
and frequently distorted.
CND has been fortunate in its impres-
arios, public speakers, pamphleteers,
designers and fund raisers. The famous
lollipop badge, designed by Gerald
Holtom in 1958, has been invaluable in
its wildfire world-wide appeal. The cam-
paign runs a newspaper, “Sanity,” and a
pirate radio station. There have been
many public meetings, delegations, lobby-
ings and subsidiary marches. Yet despite
all this there has been growing frustration
and it has proved impossible to channel
the movement’s enthusiasm solely through
CND. Demands have become constantly
more vociferous for further flagrancy
and unorthodoxy. Eventually, in open
conflict with the leadership of CND, the
Committee of 100 was formed.
It is false to think of the Committee of
100 as a splinter-group. Its antecedents
are Operation Gandhi and the Direct
Action Committee founded before CND
itself. The Direct Action Committee
pursued a policy of non-violent law-
breaking. In the summer of 1958, they
held a 16-week vigil at Aldermaston. It
concluded with 15 people, despite police
warnings, sitting down in the prohibited
forecourt of the atomic plant. They stayed


there, sitting down, for a whole week!
Meals were brought to them and they
slept there on the tarmac.
In December, 1958, there was a sit-
down at the rocket base at Swaffham,
Norfolk. Twenty-two demonstrators were
arrested and gaoled over Christmas. They
included an anarchist, a communist, a
niadrigalist, a few Quakers. Two of them
had worked with Vinoba Bhave's land
gift movement in India, one of them in
a leper colony. Support for sit-downs at
that time was minute: nobody envisaged
the sensational way in which the initiative
would mushroom.
'"The CND course in 1960 and 1961 was
dominated by events within the
Labor party. The debate stimulated
within the party by the Aldermaston
marches and the upsurge of unilateralist
conviction in influential sections of the
trade union movement led to the defeat of
the party platform at Scarborough. The
next year at Blackpool this vote was
reversed and the authority of the party
executive re-established.
The Blackpool vote throttled the aspira-
tions of CND. Disenchantment with the
idea of working first through the party,
and ultimately through Parliament set in
rapidly. It was aggravated by the
behavior of the Parliamentary Labor
Party. Members who had spoken in favor
of unilateralism at the hustings soon
knuckled under in the lobbies and resis-
tance to the leadership, even after the
Scarborough vote seemed to have sanc-
tioned it, shrank almost to zero. CND
was faced with a strategic crisis.
The first major sit-down organised by
the Committee of 100 was outside the
Defence Ministry, in February last year.
The Committee was responsible for six
such demonstrations in London during
1961, involving between 500 and 5000
people. Rank-and-file support for the
two movements must overlap to a great
extent, although the leaderships remain
bitterly divided. It is also clear that due
to enormous musters of police and a
streamlining of station and court pro-
cedure, the socially disruptive effects of
sit-downs are negligible. The recurrent
analogy with Gandhi is patently mislead-
ing-civil disobedience can only be
effective when backed by the threat of
massive violence should non-violence fail.
Leaders of non-violent campaigns must
appear to authority to be exercising
restraint on hotheads and potential mobs
or terrorists. The Committee of 100 is
neither able nor prepared to assume this
role.
The attraction of sit-downs does not
lie in their effectiveness, but in their
drama. The forces of protest and of
authority are vividly confronted. The
Government, through its deputies—the
police—is forced to participate in a
significant charade. Even the demonstra-
tors themselves, however, recognise that
their action is not profoundly construc-
tive. Further tactical developments
remain imperative. New factions begin
to form.
“Daddy, what's a bomb ?”
Most prominent is the body of opinion
within CND which calls for independent
participation by the movement in elec-
tions. Its supporters, together with some
from within the Committee of 100, have
just set up the Independent Nuclear Dis-
armament Election Committee. They
point out that the increasing political
consciousness of the campaign is frus-
trated within the Labor party, whose
bureaucratic apparatus has proved power-
ful enough to block all unilateralist
inroads. The logical conclusion is that
unilateralist candidates should stand at
elections when none of the official party
candidates meet with approval. For
tactical reasons a start will be made in by-
elections, where there is customarily a
greater willingness among the electorate to
depart from normal voting habits. Can-
didates will stand as independents with
independent nuclear disarmament as their
main point of appeal. They will not
contest any constituency in which any
other party candidate genuinely agrees
with the aims of the unilateralists.
CND has certainly progressed some
way since the slogan “Ban the Bomb!”
represented the full complexity of unila-
teralist thought. There has been increased
willingness to think about the implica-
tions of unilateralism on foreign policy
and NATO, and the need to find new
directions for current defence expendi-
ture. But outside the specific issue of the
bomb there is a wide range of political
opinion found in CND. Yet a unilater-
alist candidate would have to
formulate some general political creed.
A unilateralist MP would appear absurd
it he voted only on the defence estimates
and otherwise abstained.
It is probable that the majority of CND
supporters oppose plans to put up inde-
pendent candidates, or at least remain
wary. Their dependence on the Labor
party in many cases forbids courting
reprimand. It must certainly be envisaged
however remote the prospect may seem,
that successful participation by unilatera-
lists at the polls could lead to an open and
final split in the Labor party and the
formation around the CND core of a
splinter party of the Left, neutralist and
intransigently socialist in character.
The next few months are critical for
CND. There is a danger that the leader-
ship, already rancorous over personal
and tactical differences, could infect the
rank-and-file with their schisms. This is
what happened to the Japanese move-
ment, Gensuikyo, now split into a
“political” and a “humanitarian” wing
arriving simultaneously with parallel pro-
cessions and petitions. There is a danger
that cynicism will begin to paralyse initia-
tives or lead to outbursts of irresponsi-
bility. The movement must learn at the
same time to nurture a sense of urgency
and to accept that its practical objectives
are necessarily long term. It must stress
its achievements rather than its inade-
quacies in order to maintain its morale.
The achievements are considerable.
Enormous numbers of young people,
otherwise unconcerned about politics,
are compelled to think about major issues
in terms which stretch from politics into
ethics and metaphysics.
Their physical stamina has already been
proved. But equal mental stamina is
needed to work out a broader policy and
a steadily effective strategy. This need in
no way diminish the value of the simplest
slogans which have sustained their zeal.
Slough still needs to be shocked.


LETTERS
LESS THAN PLENTY
Sir,
This is not to protest about anything
Thelma Forshaw said about my novel,
“Amid The Plenty,” in her comments
on The Bulletin Red Page of April 14
She said so little about anything that had
much to do with the book or its story, and
that little kindly enough, that I can re-
proach her with nothing except ignoring
the book in favor of one of its characters.
About all I can do is make this effort to
get something sensible said about it
somewhere in The Bulletin, even if I
have to say it myself.
My Enid Mayhew, “today’s working-
class woman,” does inspire lowering feats,
even though she performs none. She in-
spires her husband. Jack, to a heroic feat
of endurance, putting up with her for the
sake of the past and of what he hopes
will be the future.
And Jack Mayhew is not just a man
trapped by a shrewish woman. He is
trapped by all his circumstances, by his
worklessness, the hire-purchase collec-
tors, his sense of responsibility to his
children, by the whole of a life in which
he has never been lazy or unwilling and
his only sin has been a happy-go-jucky
carelessness in his youth about the future.
He is a hero, despite his occasional weak-
nesses and ineffectuality, in a world in
which the heroes no longer wear swords.
Poor old Jack's hand doesn't even lift
the schooner very often, being mainly
raised above shoulder-level when he
wants to scratch his puzzled head. He is,
indeed, “of the rugged species known in
Australia as battlers,” whether or not
H. A. Lindsay and myself should be
placed in this class. His battles, like
those of many of us, are small ones but
long and bitterly fought, and the only
reward for courage in them is the ability
to sleep peacefully at night—something,
be it noted, that his wife, Enid, cannot
do.
I like Miss Forshaw's appreciation of
this woman I created for my book. But
I was staggered by the way she ignored
everybody and everything else in it.
GAVIN CASEY
Manning (W.A.).
[Below is Thelma Forshaw’s reply to Mr
Casey Ed.]
Sir,
A short while ago when the latest Dos
Passos novel was reviewed, what must
have been an ardent fan of the author’s
mournfully wrote: “The best thing one
can do for Mr Dos Passos is to tactfully
look away.”
I must admit I did the same thing as
regards Mr Gavin Casey’s recent novel,
“Amid the Plenty,” though, I confess,
with less candour.
One does not “tactfully look away”
from the work of a writer who has not
formerly shown himself to be worthy of
admiration and respect in his field. But
in “Amid the Plenty,” Mr Casey seemed
to me to take a rather parochial view of
his subject, which in itself lacked the
stuff of drama—a man is unemployed
during a time of prosperity. He ignored
the ironic possibilities of his theme, for
the inartistic howl of the malcontent.
(Jack Mayhew was “idle,” but at no time
was his plight desperate.)
I could not get upset over the reposses-
sion by hire-purchase companies of Enid
Mayhew’s TV set and thick carpets. I
could not get upset when Jack Mayhew
quite stubbornly refused to seek other
work available to him outside his trade.
I could not feel he was a “victim,” when
out of his own wife’s mouth he was
accused of having wasted the money they
might have saved, on grog. I could not
sympathise because behind this history of
peevish materialism 1 saw the hungry
people of India, Africa, China, the still-
festering refugee-camps, and the desolate
idleness of our own encamped migrants
—against which Jack Mayhew's situation
seemed almost paradisal. A temporary
lay-off, which at some time in our lives
most of us have experienced personally,
and weathered grumblingly, is hardly the
stuff of a novelist’s drama —at least, not
from the angle Mr Casey approached it.
I felt that his novel did not have a
chance of leaving the ground when he
failed to establish legitimate reasons for
sympathetic identification with his
characters.
There is no doubt that the author’s
heart—if not art —is in the right place,
and that he genuinely, if sentimentally,
feels sorry for those people who, if he
were not so warm-hearted, he would
surely see as “wanting to have their cake
and eat it.” One man cuts down his
liquor intake to “put a bit by,” yet he is
envied and maligned by the bloke who
“lives for today.” Does Mr Casey think
that self-sacrifice and going without are
un-Australian? Does he really believe
his characters to be representative of the
true Australian when they roister away
the nest-egg, then turn with a snarl on the
possibly not-so-attractive character who
finds himself protected by his prudence
from the blasts of ill-fortune?
I cannot see eye to eye with Mr Casey
on the focus of his novel, just as 1 will
admit that the prudent “saving” man
often lacks the lovable personality of the
improvident (and personality counts
heavily with Australians). But somehow
Mr Casey failed to make his improvident
hero an attractive personality. He wasn’t
even a person you could heatedly dislike.
He didn’t arouse any feeling in me at
all. If you must know, I thought he was
a “nongi” in good old Australianese, and
I bet Mr Casey did, too, deep down in
his generous, loving heart. In fact, in
“Amid the Plenty,” Mr Casey projected
a paternalistic attitude, that rather un-
flatteringly implied: “I'm a slogging
hard worker, myself, but of course you
blokes aren't, so I must do something
for you.”
So that is what Mr Casey thinks of the
dinkum Aussie. On behalf of all dinkum
Aussies, I protest. They love their fun,
yes, but only a negligible number would
petulantly turn their backs on some job
—any job at all—-when they couldn't
immediately land the one they were
trained for. I speak as a former waitress,
button-carder and factory worker, among
other “white-collar” things. A lady-
battler, in fact.
The whining Mayhews in “Amid the
Plenty” were not worthy of the skill and
labor the writer so lavishly wasted on
them.
THELMA FORSHAW
WHEN REDS MOVE IN
Sir,
Your Hobart correspondent must read
the Launceston “Examiner” regularly,
for his interesting coverage of shop com-
mittees in Tasmania (Bulletin, April 21)
was passed off as “poppycock” by the
Hobart “Mercury.” Having now checked
back copies of the “Examiner,” I must
disagree wholeheartedly with the “Mer-
cury” and support your correspondent.
However, the “Examiner” did say that
two more union men “descended on Bell
Bay,” namely, F. Taylor (Federated
Engine Drivers and Firemen's Associ-
ation) and E. Mitchell (AEU) who have
since made Press statements. Mr. C. Clap-
ham, Tasmanian AEU organiser, said
more than just “Whether I am a com-
munist or not is irrelevant.” When asked
apparently in Launceston, whether he
followed the communist line, his answer
was a gem of equivocation. He said, “I
have nothing to gain by denying or
admitting it.”
I am disgusted at the head-in-the-sand
attitude of the “Mercury” and of Mr
Reece. As your correspondent neatly put
it: “Mr Reece may learn in time, but
meanwhile Mr Clapham is doing very
well.”
STAN S. STREAKE
Hobart.
THE WONG CASE
Sir,
“Whichever way you look at it the
Wong case is a blunder.” I read this in
The Bulletin of April 21. To say that
I was surprised at this statement is veil
under what I felt.
Years ago, The Bulletin had for its
captions “The Yellow Peril” and such-
like warnings against the Asiatic hordes.
Referring to the Wong case, the Mini-
ster for Immigration only did his job.
Wong did wrong. There are certain con-
ditions under Australian laws whereby
immigration is allowed or can take place
but not as stowaways and expect to get
away with it.
If this is allowed (and has it been


proved that Wong is not a communist
agent?) today, then thousands, nay mil-
lions will be over here tomorrow. Aus-
tralia for the Australians? Yes. When
Asiatics become Australians we will wel-
come them.
Your “Wong Case,” Mr Editor, is
decidedly the wrong case.
ERNEST SULLIVAN
South Payneham (SA).
THE END OF PURITANISM
Sir,
We must be grateful to Mr Pringle for
painting for our edification as pretty a
picture of what Sorokin has called the
Decadent-Sensate phase of a society as
we might see since the late Hellenistic
age or, for that matter, Sodom and
Gomorrah (Bulletin, April 28). The fact
that he smacks his lips with cultured
approval need cause no surprise to those
who know the “Liberal” r :nd.
Of course, we in Australia are not
quite so advanced, though Mr Pringle
will be pleased to hear that two strip-tease
shows now advertise permanently in the
daily Press of “Puritan” Melbourne.
However, as Mr Pringle says of Wales
and Scotland, we “have some way to go.”
In his “Australian accent” he informs
us regretfully that our women have “no
exotic atmosphere”!
It was ingenious if perhaps (dare one
suggest?) a little unfair to contrast the
“New” England (once known as “Our
Lady’s Diary”) with an abnormal atti-
tude to sex, viz. Puritanism. That there
is a normal Christian mind in this matter,
a mind that can contain within itself the
sane, healthy vulgarity of Chaucer,
marital fidelity and the “spiritual quick-
ening” that comes with ascetic discipline
—is passed over in Pringle’s report, which
in a double sense ranks as a profoundly
pathological document.
JOHN GILFEDDER
Malvern (Vic.).
Sir,
Mr Pringle's London Newsletter of
April 28 sees the spread of strip-tease,
nudity and bedroom scenes in entertain-
ment as evidence of the new sexual free-
dom which has replaced Puritanism in
England.
I think his letter shows that, by com-
parison, the Puritan legacy is surviving
more blindly and rigidly in some parts
of Australia than in its mother country,
and that it is about time we gave a little
more attention to bringing our own
national image up to date.
If you will allow me to make the
necessary distinction between nudity and
nudism, 1 believe I can support Mr
Pringle’s argument, and show that, in
some regards, we are greater Puritans
than the inventors of the English Sunday.
We nudists particularly deplore the
commercialisation of sex in entertain-
ment, advertising and elsewhere. We
respect the human person, and maintain
that it is not the undressed body of the
nudist but the underdressed body in the
night-club and on the billboard that
emphasises sex.
These two points of view regarding
the human body represent the distinction
I wish to make: the one, a frank and
healthy approach to, the other, a degra-
dation of, the vital function of humanity.
Our point of view also represents a
reassessment of the ancient convention
of wearing clothes. In practical applica-
tion, we are proud of our freedom from
child delinquency, particularly in the
face of the recent concern of the Queens-
land authorities.
In Australia there are 14 established
nudist clubs. In England there are at
least 70 clubs, and two nationwide organi-
sations, one of which is affiliated, as we
are, with the International Naturist
Federation in Denmark, a member of
PUnion des Associations Internationales,
in Brussels (UNESCO).
It was reported in the London “Daily
Mail” about 12 months ago that Prince
Philip’s favorite charity, the National
Playing Fields’ Association, had accepted
as a member England’s largest naturist
club, the North Kent Sun Club, which,
I believe, has about 500 adult members.
The general acceptance of our move-
ment in England is such that there are
naturist hotels and holiday resorts which
are open to the public and do not have
any membership requirements.
I think the English, whether nudist or
not, would be very surprised to learn
that an Australian lost his job because
he admitted to being a nudist, as hap-
pened recently to one of our members in
Brisbane.
JOHN BOSWELL
(Secretary of the Australian
Federation of Sun Clubs)
Sydney.
HOW WRONG IS
XAVIER HERBERT?
Sir,
If anyone has any doubt as to whether
aborigines are capable of managing their
own affairs, assimilating and taking their
place with the whites on an equal footing,
Ken Brindle’s article (Bulletin, April 14)
should certainly decide the issue.
Read his reply to Xavier Herbert
(Bulletin, March 31) through again
(don’t forget Ken Brindle’s schooling
finished at sixth grade) and consider
where, he, Ken Brindle, would be today
if he were born a white. He’d be sitting
at an executive’s desk, with a string of
letters after his name, dictating to the
whites. As it is, he was born a half-caste
aboriginal.
Give the aborigines the same oppor-
tunities to educate and better themselves
as we, the whites, have had, and they’ll
prove themselves. Meanwhile, congratu-
lations, Ken Brindle, on an outstanding
article, and. keep on writing. Along with
Harold Blair and Albert Namatjira you
have something to give to the world. Give
it, with all your heart.
SHEILA TASSELL
Mapleton (Qld).
INVESTMENT IN ART
Sir,
I wish to protest strongly over an
article appearing in your newspaper pub-
lished on April 14.
The article is on page 16 in the third
column and reads as follows: “The
Claude Hotchin Gallery, the oldest in
Perth, is to close because the space it
occupies in a department store is too
valuable.”
This statement is definitely incorrect.
As a matter of fact we have many good
exhibitions listed for this year and very
shortly will be arranging bookings for
1963. It may interest you to know we
will accept exhibitions in our gallery
from anywhere in Australia and also that
the Helena Rubinstein Portrait Prize
will be held from the 2nd to the 14th
July with a prize of 300 guineas. This
prize is open to any Australian portrait
painter.
It would be appreciated if you would
therefore correct the statement referred
to in your paper.
S. BROWN
(Public-Relations Officer,
Perth. Boans Limited)
HOW CHAMBERLAIN MISSED
THE BUS
Sir,
In support of F. H. Wilson’s contention
(Bulletin, April 21) that Enid Armstrong
(Bulletin, April 7) in her criticism of
Neville Chamberlain “does not attempt
to be impartial” and lacks a knowledge
of history, may I add a few comments?
As a member of the Naval Staff at
Malta, in 1936,1 was in a position to note
the serious naval deficiencies revealed
by the Italo-Abyssinian crisis. It was
obvious that up to four years were needed
to make good the backlog of “the years
that the locusts hath eaten.”
At the time of the Munich crisis I was
serving on the Staff of the Naval Com-
mander-in-Chief, Africa Station. It was
common belief that the Hertzog
Government would, as it failed to do a
year later, obtain a majority in Parlia-
ment for its policy of South African
neutrality. The pro-German Minister of
Defence, the late Mr O. Pirow, refused
to honor an agreement with Britain to
publish proclamations mobilising British
reservists resident in South Africa. How-
ever, a civil servant, reputed to be of the
same political complexion as Mr Pirow
and head of the External Affairs Depart-
ment, issued the notices.
It needed the breaches of faith by
Hitler after Munich to convince the
peoples of Britain and the Dominions
that war was inevitable. Whether the
respite bought by Neville Chamberlain
was an intentional or unintentional action
by him may remain a matter of opinion.
But, history is likely to record that the
respite was necessary, particularly as it
ensured a united entry and effort by the
Commonwealth and, also, the entry of
the USA in due course.
CRASTER C. M. USHER
Hornsby (NSW).


THE BATESON STORY
The face behind the Australian establishment
SIR ALBERT BATESON, CMG
Influential, but scarcely loveable
The now almost certain appointment
of Sir Albert Bateson CMG, as
Vice-Chancellor of the Australian
National University, is one of
the most important moves ever made
in Canberra. Sir Albert has been one of
Australia’s most influential figures for
more than two decades.
His almost obsessional dislike of
publicity, wh ch seems to increase with
age—he won’t allow his name to appear
in Who's Who for example - has
also made him Canberra’s most
secret figure. In a quite old-fashioned
way he is a genuine man of mystery.
Given his unique capacity for organisa-
tion, his wide cultural interests, his
political know-how and his ability to
charm financial blood out of Govern-
mental stones, the ANU can now regard
the sky as the limit.
A youthful 58, Bert Bateson (the affec-
tionate term “BB.” by which he is known
today, belongs to his oracular, post-war
eminence in Treasury, Trade, and other
departments) is probably the biggest
single power in the Australian establish-
ment. His is the face behind it. That
he is hardly known at all to the general
public has been no hindrance to a
brilliant and dramatic, career. His near
mania for public anonymity, while satis-
fying a legitimate desire for privacy, has
only helped him become a secret power
without parallel in this country.
His bear-like figure, shambling gait,
thick snowy hair, large nose and slow, un-
mistakably Australian drawl have been
part and parcel of Canberra for almost
30 years. His brusqueness, which seems
like cultivated rudeness to those who
don't, know him well, -the pipe which he
carries in gigantic right hand and the
three boxes of matches he uses daily to
keep it alight, have become the familiar
characteristics of a great if little known
Australian figure. Though scarcely a love-
able man, he is both distinguished and
admired.
He did not expect to be loved, for
instance, when he started rationing in
this country. It was Bateson who worked
out all the tedious, annoying, restrictive
legislation. Having done that he received
a brusque note from Curtin telling him
to hand over to “Nugget" Coombs. Pro-
fessional inside dopesters in Canberra
prophesied that Bateson had made his
run. They were wrong. The Prime Minis-
ter recognised talent when he saw it
he was short enough of it - and he
transferred Bateson to his special Defence
Planning Committee with the injunction
that he should think up ways of winning
the war. Bateson thought hard and came
up with an improved anti-submarine
defence programme. The Navy was
horrified at this civilian intrusion but
Curtin stuck by Bateson. It is a tribute
to Bateson's capacity that on only one
occasion did a Japanese submarine pene-
trate boom defences. That was in Sydney
in 1942. To the subsequent ill-natured
jibe that the Japs only tried once anyway
Bateson has always good-humoredly
replied: “That's not the point!”
The point has always been something
of a fetish with 88. His slow, painfully
enunciated “That's not the point!”
is one of Canberra's best known inside
sayings. Bateson intends it as a joke
for he has always been quick to see the
point, even quicker to exploit it, from
the day he arrived at Fort St High on
a bursary. He left it to go to Sydney
University on an exhibition. His univer-
sity career was a steady grind resulting
in a gold medal and honors degrees in
laws and arts. His choice as a Rhodes
Scholar was unexceptionable. Oxford
didn't have much effect on him although
he had some on Oxford by establishing
an enviable reputation as a wit in asking
at an arty undergraduate party. “Who's
Picasso?” He later enhanced this reputa-
tion on a visit to Cambridge by asking
his host, a Fellow of Kings, “Who’s
E. M. Forster?”
He knew the answers perfectly well,
of course, but it was fun to give the
impression he didn't. Nowadays when
he asks questions like that recently
he asked where Hollandia was nobody
takes him seriously. They know he knows
the answers.
Knowing the answers better than any-
body else has been Bert Bateson's stock
in trade in a sense. When he returned
from Oxford in the early depression
days he inevitably drifted into Treasury
where, apart from pioneering the use of
the belt instead of braces, he quickly
made his mark as a forthright champion
of deflation. For a while he made him-
self publicly unpopular by remarking:
“I firmly believe that a balanced economy
in Australia should have at least 36 per
cent, of the work force unemployed/’
But unpopular or not it was he, rather
than a Cabinet Minister, who was chosen
to greet Sir Otto Niemeyer on his arrival
in Australia. Bateson’s star then waned for
several years until he was seconded to
Defence in the late thirties. This tempor-
ary eclipse left him unperturbed. He likes
to recall that his grandfather Albert
Bateson introduced prickly pear into
Queensland. “Criticism doesn't worry
me." he says, “my family is used to it. ’
Taking up his Defence duties he
firmly put aside his intense conviction
that there would never be another
war and proceeded to draw up mobilisa-
tion plans for the Second AIF. In any
other hands than his the AIF would
have been at full war establishment
months earlier. “But not half so well,”
as he later told a Select Committee of
Enquiry.
When he realised the true nature of
Japanese Imperialism he says today
that to any objective person there was
a clear possibility of invasion after
Pearl Harbor he more than anyone
else in Cabinet or Defence fought
tenaciously for the reinforcement of
Singapore. In an impassioned memoran-
dum to Curtin advising against the
return of Australian troops from the
Middle East he added the famous words:
“Singapore is impregnable.” That things
turned out otherwise he rightly puts
down to the unforeseeably high training


standards of the Japanese Army rather
than to anything else.
Because of his brilliant performance
over Singapore and his iron nerve he
was seconded briefly to the Army’s
Directorate of Research where he quickly
became chief liasion officer between Alf
Conlon on the one hand, Blarney and
Curtin on the other. It was he who laid
the foundations of military Government
in New Guinea and the islands before
bringing off the famous St Rodriguez
coup in leasing that tiny island for the
duration of the war from the Portuguese
Government. The story of how the
island off the coast of Angola was
to be used as a tropical training site
for Australian troops is old but still con-
troversial history.
It took a great deal to bring the deal
off. The hardest part was convincing a
sceptical Blarney and Curtin that the
island was indispensable as a springboard
to invasion of Madagascar. “Wars move
so fast nowadays,” Bateson told the Prime
Minister and the C.-in-C., “that nobodv
can say for certain where our troops may
fight next. It is my profound conviction
that Australian operations on Madagascar
are quite as likely as landing troops in
the Japanese home islands. More likely
in fact. Therefore we should be pre-
pared.” Faced with that sort of logic
the PM conceded defeat and Bateson
flew to Lisbon the following night mak-
ing light of the dangers of the trip in his
customary way. That Australian troops
were never used on Madagascar is no
fault of Sir Albert’s. It is just one of
those things.
The Brisbane Line was another of those
things. Bateson made a very rapid cal-
culation on paper one night in the dark
days of 1942 and came to the conclusion
that as New Guinea could not be held a
determined effort should be made to
save everything south of Brisbane. It
was sheer fate —perhaps luck —that the
whole operation became known as the
Brisbane Line rather than Bateson’s Line
which it was certainly called in Canberra.
The name of Bateson was heard a lot in
those tough years. He knew everybody
and his opinion was valued. His brilliant
grasp of strategy and his eye for detail
induced then Opposition Leader, R. G.
Menzies, to pay him a singular tribute in
Parliament —the only public tribute he
ever received —as “the one indispensable
man in the Allied effort in the South
Pacific.” General MacArthur personally
pinned the Legion of Merit on his breast.
A list of BB’s achievements
is impressive. Arthur Calwell, for
example, even now privately acknowl-
edges his debt to Bateson who in the
Press censorship fuss in 1944 coined the
phrase “Curse The Press!” while dining
at the Melbourne Club one evening. It
was Bateson as much as anyone else who
was responsible for the ANU and the
Snowy River Scheme. On the latter, he
wrote to Chifley just after the war was
over: “Atomic power for industrial pur-
poses is clearly some 200 years off in
Britain and the US. It is probably 500
years away in this country. I advise put-
ting our eggs in the SRA scheme.”
Bateson also wrote a memorandum for
the Chiefs of Staff and External Affairs
Minister (then Dr Evatt) on the probable
balance of power in the Pacific afier the
defeat of Japan which Bateson confidently
prophesied early in 1945. Even today its
foresight and brilliance are impressive.
“With the defeat of Japan,” he wrote,
“it is now quite clear that the Soviet
Union and the United States will emerge
clear victors in the post-war world. We
can confidently look forward to a new
era of peace, common trust and mutual
endeavor between the two giants, des-
pite minor ideological differences.” If
Bert Bateson has ever had a single regret
about the war it is a small, nagging
doubt that he was, perhaps, wrong
in persuading Dr Evatt to refuse leasing
Manus to the Americans.
He performed two last services for the
Chifley Government. One was to heip
draft the nationalised banking legislation
for Dr Evatt and Mr Chifley. The other
was to urge the introduction of Parlia-
mentary broadcasting. “The nation de-
serves it,” he commented with his sly
smile.
Value in the Pound
Under the Menzies Government, Bate-
son suffered his second eclipse for a
short time even though it was widely
rumored that it was he who coined
the slogan “Putting value back
in the pound.” But within a
year or so, Menzies discovered that be-
neath the gruff exterior and dogmatic
behavior of his most senior civil servant
there was a razor-sharp mind. Bateson
was knighted in 1950. Even on an
occasion of that sort his mania for
secrecy triumphed. His name never
appeared in the newspapers. But in the
departmental corridors of Canberra he
was now the familiar BB and close
adviser to the Prime Minister just as he
had been to Curtin and Chifley. It was
BB who flew to Cairo ahead of Menzies
to sound out Nasser over Suez. BB and
Nasser got along surprisingly well. Bate-
son flew back to London jubilant. Pipe in
hand, he reported to the PM. “Nasser's
a wop,” he is reported to have said with
characteristic candor, “and a bloody push-
over.” A year later he was sent as head
of the secret Djakarta Mission. Soekarno
enchanted Bateson who loves bizarre,
exotic figures and the gruff Australian
intrigued Soekarno. At a private dinner in
the Merdeka Palace Soekarno opened up.
“Tell your Prime Minister, your Cab-
inet, your chief of secret police, your
people if you wish, that never, never will
I resort to arms to liberate West Irian.”
Bateson flew back and reported to a de-
lighted Menzies and Cabinet. BB was
given a roving commission. He flew
ahead of Menzies to the UN two years
ago and had several highly confidential
talks with Khrushchev. He loves to tell
the story that when he asked Kwi he
took his shoe off at the Assembly meet-
ing, K growled and said it was because
his foot hurt. BB stayed long enough to
write Menzies’ speech for the UN and
came home. He is still sensitive to criti-
cism of that speech and has rebuked more
than one critic by saying that opposition
had come mostly from black countries
when all was said and done. His next
big job was to fly to London before the
Commonwealth Prime Ministers’ meet-
ing over which South Africa walked out
of the Commonwealth. Bateson, never
impressed by emotional argument or
numbers, plumped to the very last for
keeping South Africa in and letting the
colored Commonwealth walk out.
The world color problem fascinates
him as the century’s most overrated politi-
cal bogy. Characteristically, he coined the
phrase “uniform development” in des-
cribing his conception of Australian
policy in New Guinea. “We have 150
years, maybe 300 years, left in New
Guinea, he said, “so why hurry. Uni-
form development is the only policy.”
Territories Minister Hasluck gratefully
borrowed the phrase and later used it in
a speech. Sir Garfield Barwick also has
cause to be grateful to BB who urged
him at all costs to keep the “known
character” provision in the Crimes Act
amendment.
It is too early to say how far BB will
affect Australian policy on such diverse
matters as the Common Market, decimal
coinage, NT development, Senate reform,
the communist party, the future of the
universities, Town and Country Plan-
ning, the Elizabethan Theatre, the Com-
monwealth Literary Fund and the Wong
Case. He is, of course, intensely interested
in them all and will, when the time comes,
quietly have his say and his influence.
At home BB forgets the cares of the
world. Surrounded by mementoes of his
travels and victories —he is particularly
proud of a Fiji death mask which he
picked up in Suva just before the riots
started —he lives in one of Canberra’s
largest houses although few know him
to be its occupant. He lives alone with
his charming wife, Florence May, now
that his three sons and daughter are
married. One son is a high-ranking Army
officer, another is in insurance and the
eldest teaches at the ANU. His daughter
Mary, the apple of his eye, has lived in
England for some years and is a prom-
inent Aldermaston marcher. His only


“That’s not the point!” Sir Albert
Bateson purses lips, cogitates, as
he utters his now' famous phrase.
“Singapore is impregnable!”—1942
An impassioned defence
memorandum.
Concentrating on drawing the
Brisbane Line one night in the
dark davs of 1942.
All pictures on this parte cue by [?]d permission of Lad) Bateson.
Recalling that Singapore was not,
after all, impregnable—1962.
“Nasser’s a wop!”—1956.
“We have 300 years left in
New Guinea"—1962.
brother, James, is on the board of
one of Australia's largest real estate com-
panies. BB is a keen gardener and presi-
dent of the Pan-Pacific Orchidean
Association.
Most nights he reads departmental
files but occasionally, over a whisky and
soda, relaxes with thrillers or the novels
of C. P. Snow whose explorations of the
“corridors of power" naturally appeal to
him. On the whole he regards Snow as
a bit amateurish. “Power, .real power,”
he recently told a friend, “is a bit different
from all that Oxford College stuff. But
still Snow's on the right track.” As might
be expected of the only private owner
of a Picasso in Canberra (or Australia
possibly) he is keen on art and paints
himself. He claims to have discovered
Nolan and has a portrait of himself done
by Nolan before the war.
His favorite relaxation is giving select
dinner parties at which guests are likely
to find themselves seated next to Cabinet
Ministers, ambassadors or up-and
coming artists of a conservative type.
Expectably, BB dominates the conversa-
tion. He has the best cellar in Canberra
and is a member of the exclusive Hunter
Red Society, Canberra's only wine and
food club. He has a discriminating palate
and can unerringly pick the vintage, area
and characteristics of any Australian
wine. For fun he now and then makes
a monumental mistake but this is just to
tease his guests. Only the unsophisticated
make the mistake in turn of thinking
that Sir Albert doesn't know his stuff.
Fortunately there are very few un-
sophisticated people at the ANU and it
is unthinkable that either the University
or BB will do other than understand
each other perfectly.
ROBERT DONINGTON
$ More about Bateson oil page 31
A foundation member of Can-
berra’s exclusive Hunter Red
Society.


MR. EXECUTIVE
Does rust and corrosion eat into your profits?
Even salt water can't affect parts mothballed in ...
It guarantees expensive metal parts
complete protection from rust and
corrosion, abrasion and rough handl-
ing!
Dip precious parts in Gloscoat and they're
sealed inside a thick, tough, flexible
plastic skin. Gloscoat protects against
rust and corrosion indefinitely. And it
peels off quickly and easily when parts
are required for use. Plastic can be
re-used which saves money. Protect
precious parts, keep them factory fresh
with Gloscoat.
Used extensively by the Australian Navy
and many other government depart-
ments.
British Optical Co. Pty. Htd., Contessa
House, 4th Floor, 4-14 Foster Street, Sydney
or phone 61-3740
OVERSEAS
BIRTH CONTROL ROW
President Kennedy under pressure
From GODFREY HODGSON in Washington
The United States Administration is
worried by an ancient controversy
with new sharp political angles
birth control. As Western aid
that is, overwhelmingly American aid
pours into the underdeveloped coun-
tries it raises standards of living and
prolongs life. As a result, populations
explode so violently that the economic,
and therefore the political, gains of aid
are threatened.
The main hope of a breakthrough
in population control must lie in massive
birth-control research. Any such effort
would need American money and scien-
tific resources. Yet such an effort would
be politically hazardous in two ways.
More than 40 million American Catholics
reject birth control.
The fact that the President is a
Catholic only points up this widespread
attitude, for he has made it clear that
he will separate his personal religious
views from the national interest as he
sees it. Nevertheless, there is no prospect
of Congress approving a major appropria-
tion for a programme regarded as
immoral by crucial sections of the
electorate.
Moreover, from the point of view of
external politics also, it would be difficult
to urge the underdeveloped countries to
take steps to limit their population
growth.
Yet two documents are circulating
within the Government here which argue
from two different points of view the
urgency of doing something to limit the
population of the underdeveloped coun-
tries. The first is a policy-planning docu-
ment not official policy, but one of
many drawn up for discussion in the
State Department. It was written last
June and is believed to argue that if the
US makes such an important contribu-
tion on one side of the ledger, namely
resources, it should do something on the
side of limiting the number among whom
those resources are spread.
The Secretary of State, Mr Rusk, re-
plied very much in these terms when
asked recently about the problem. His
answer was, however, extremely cautious,
and he was anxious to avoid any sugges-
tion that the US has anything like a
policy of encouraging population limita-
tion. The second report was originally
written for the National Institute of
Health last September. It summarised the
state of scientific knowledge according
to a fairly plausible “leak” and argued
that there were many contraceptive
techniques worth exploring with intensive
research.
The report is said to have been pre-
pared originally for a crash programme
of $9O million for birth-control research.
SALAZAR'S TROUBLED BIRTHDAY
FROM A SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
IN LISBON
When Dr Salazar recently cele-
brated his seventy-third birthday
without pomp or protocol he
elected to stay at his birthplace,
the village of Vimieiro, near Santa
Comba Dao.
His regime has just passed through
the most tumultuous year in its history
and is now poised on the brink of chaos.
The university crisis is still unresolved.
Fifteen thousand students defied the
Government and went on strike on April
6, because the Government banned their
Students’ Day celebration.
For several weeks clandestine commu-
nist propaganda has called for a general
strike in Lisbon and Oporto for May
Day, in support of the students. This
has prompted the Ministry of Corpora-
tions to issue warnings against attempts
at subversive activities on May Day, with
threats of reprisals against workers.
Cuba is also causing Portugal concern.
On the anniversary of Dr Castro’s
rise to power, the Cuban Embassy
circulated “a greeting to all Portu-
guese workers on the occasion of
International Labor Day.” The message,
although suppressed by the censor, was
criticised in an editorial of the semi-
Government Catholic organ “A Voz.”
The newspaper demanded the breaking
off of diplomatic relations with Cuba.


KHRUSHCHEV'S SOFT-SELL
Communists in all countries are walking the "peaceful coexistence" tightrope
By "OBSERVER"
CPhe internal tensions that are straining
A the structure of the Australian Com-
munist Party are better understood if
they are looked at in a background of
communist parties in Asia generally.
Throughout the area there are reflections
of the clashes between China and the
Soviet on world communist strategy.
These clashes are expressed in Marxist-
Leninist jargon that makes them unintelli-
gible to the layman but the underlying
issue can be stated simply enough: what
is the correct strategy for extending com-
munist power throughout the world in
the middle of the 20th century?
Khrushchev's method of “peaceful
coexistence” is ideally suited to dealing
with advanced industrialised societies: it
is a soft-sell way of demoralising resis-
tance to communism, of putting us off
our guard.
Chinese communists have different
problems from Khrushchev and their
policy of giving first priority to revolu-
tionary movements everywhere may be
more suited to the kind of countries they
are particularly concerned with.
Both factions are represented in all the
Asian communist parties. The position
becomes further muddled by personal
rivalries, special considerations about
relations with Moscow and Peking and
veneration for the sacred writers of
Marxism-Leninism.
Great caution has been shown, for
instance, by the North Vietnam and
North Korean parties. It is obviously to
the advantage of both these parties to
keep in with both Moscow and Peking.
Thus the North Vietnamese have not
joined in the criticism of Albania that is
required by the Moscow line ; at the
same time they have not joined in the
criticism of “revisionism" that is required
by the Peking line. They still enjoy the
support of Moscow and Peking in shoot-
ing South Vietnamese and trying to
destroy South Vietnam by terror.
The Indian Communist Party is in a
more fragile position, with a very real
possibility of a split into opposing
factions. The death of Ajoy Ghosh, the
party's general secretary, last January
removed a conciliatory figure and opened
the way to a struggle for power.
This split is exacerbated by a geo-
graphical split in which party organisa-
tions in Andhra, - Kerala, Madras and
West Bengal urge militant - tactics along
Peking lines. But most party branches
are still dominated by pro-Soviet factions,
who show considerable hostility to the
Chinese as Chinese.
In Japan a deeply divided party, though
traditionally pro-Soviet, now seems to be
moving towards China. Minority - party
leaders such as Kasuga, a party veteran,
were attacked as “treacherous, Right-
wing, revisionist and corrupt” and then
expelled from the party.
A breakaway communist group was
formed in protest against this suppression
of opposition views and there are now
signs that Moscow is moving in—as it
did in Australia —to secure a switch.
The Indonesian communists are also
walking the party tightrope. Because of
their need to exploit the West New
Guinea crisis and to use it to create
revolutionary tensions inside Indonesia
they are adopting a generally pro-Chinese
line but at the same time they are anxious
to keep Soviet support.
They were one of the four “rebel”
parties at the recent 22nd Congress (with
China., Albania, and North Korea) and
while the party’s leader D. N. Aidit
accepts the Soviet party as the “vanguard”
of the world communist movement he
has not joined in the attacks on Albania.
A further confusion comes from the
fact that though the Indonesian party's
militant tactics give their policies a pro-
Chinese flavor the general unpopularity
of the Chinese in Indonesia is also a
factor in a- party with such a large
membership as the Indonesian party '
The same.kind of muddle shows up in
the Australian party, although it is being
solved by typical Australian “stalinist”
cynicism.
Until 1951 the Australian party was a
straight Moscow-line affair.
But in the 1950 s there was an increasing
Peking influence. Apparently with Mos-
cow approval, the Chinese took over much
of the training.of Australian communists.
Communist defectors have stated that at
one stage Chinese party literature was
studied almost exclusively in Australian
communist schools.
The fruits of this policy appeared
in the Moscow conference of 1960 when
Sharkey voted for Peking against Russia.
After that the Russians started to bring
the Australians back into orbit. There
were more trips for Australians to
Russia ; more Russian party literature
in Australian party schools ; and signs
of considerable Soviet Embassy activity
with Australian party leaders.
CPhe pay-off came in the 22nd Congress
A in Moscow when the Australians
switched from Peking and voted for
Moscow.
There followed a typically cynical per-
formance in the Australian apparatus.
The Sharkey faction, former admirers of
Peking ruthlessness, went out to “get”
Hill, the Victorian leader, who, though
disapproving of Khrushchev’s policies,
was personally a Moscow man.
They forced Hill's “resignation,” using
his attitude on destalinisation as the issue,
although they used “stalinist” methods
to do it, overriding opposition and pre-
tending a unanimity that did not exist.
At the decisive central committee meet-
ing three members voted against the
switch and six others including Ernie
Thornton and J. R. Hughes spoke
against it. Even party chairman Dixon
was not happy about the switch.
In one sense this was an episode in
the faction fight for the succession to
the ageing Sharkey. Hill was (and still
is) the only outstanding rival to Laurie
Aarons, a former Peking man who turned
Moscow man and out-Khrushcheved
Hill.
But privately Australian party leaders
still disapprove of Moscow policies such


as destalinisation and still have con-
siderable sympathy with the Peking fac-
tions in the Asian communist parties.
Significantly, Sharkey and Aidit, the
Indonesian leader, returned from Moscow
together, via Peking, where they had a
joint audience with Mao Tse-tung.
This year’s switch may be only one of
many yet to be performA. by the Aus-
tralian party, each of them demoralising
the party with its cynicism and at the
same time emphasising its links with in-
ternational communist commitments. The
dictatorial way in which it was carried
out has caused discontent, especially in
Victoria where a rebel faction is now
in private communication with Indonesian
communists.
On a long-term view the Australian
party finds its natural place in the
Chinese orbit.
THE GREAT LEAP BACKWARD
China bows to economic necessity
From DENNIS BLOODWORTH in Singapore
Available details of Premier Chou
En-lai’s report to the National
People’s Congress in Peking have
led political experts to believe that
China’s more intransigent communist
leaders are at last bowing to economic
necessity. There are signs that they are
anxious to patch up their costly quarrel
with the Soviet Union, and they have now
laid down unequivocally that first priority
must be given to agriculture.
Since 1957 battle has been joined within
the Chinese Communist Party between
nationalistic sectarians headed by Liu
Shao-chi, Chairman of the Republic, who
enjoy the active sympathy of Mao Tse-
tung, chairman of the party, and the
more pragmatic “moderates,” whose
champions are generally believed to be
Prime Minister Chou En-lai and Marshal
Chen Yi, the Foreign Minister.
The sectarians’ aim has been to promote
Chinese communist conformism and to
eliminate all heretics, even at the cost of
national efficiency. At the same time they
have sought to build China quickly
and ruthlessly into a modern socialist
industrial power capable of challenging
both Russia and the West for world
leadership.
The moderates have advocated a slower,
more firmly based development of the
national economy and close friendship
with the USSR. They have been suspic-
ious of the “great leap forward” and of
the rapid regimentation of the masses in
“people’s communes.” Today the natural
calamities and administrative muddle and
the crippling economic consequences of
the Sino-Soviet quarrel have since been
added, and by January the struggle
between the chauvinists and moderates
had consequently entered a new and bitter
phase.
Moscow not only stopped giving China
further credits, but demanded the rapid
repayment of all loans —including, it is
reported, the cost of armaments supplied
to Chinese forces during the Korean
war. Moscow also withdrew its 3000
technicians.
Reports show that construction work
on many factories and engineering
schemes has been abandoned. In other
plants output has dropped by 80 per cent,
and the Wuhan Steel complex, for
example, the second largest in China, has
been working at only 30 per cent, of
capacity, according to latest available
figures. The output of cars and tractors
in the “show-piece” factories at Chang
Chun and Loyang is believed to be well
below 10,000 units a year, although each
was designed to produce 30,000. The
Government has stopped publishing pro-
duction figures.
In 1961 China produced no more rice,
wheat or other grain than she did in
1957. Last year she was obliged to import
grain, mainly from Australia and Canada,
to the value of about £127 million, and
is placing further orders for 1962-63.
Peking’s efforts to pay for these pur-
chases can only be described as desperate.
In 1961 the Chinese sold about 70 per
cent, of all the silver purchased in Lon-
don, the accepted world market —a total
of some 40 million ounces. They have
also been unloading gold, and attempting
to diversify their exports to cover a range
that extends from wolfram to bicycles.
China reduced the value of her imports
from Britain from £3l million in 1960 to
less than £l3 million last year. In the
same period she cut her imports from
West Germany by more than two-thirds,
from France by more than 25 per cent.,
from Switzerland by 33 per cent, and
from Austria by nearly 75 per cent.
Chinese receiving remittances from
relatives in Malaya are allowed to spend
some of the money to buy necessities—
but at double the normal price. Many
overseas Chinese have been told that they
should purchase the houses occupied by
their parents in overcrowded cities like
Shanghai—the implication being that if
they do not the parents may be evicted
and “sent down to the country.” It is
reported from Macao that they also can
“buy out” relatives who are still in China
but wish to leave the country, for sums
varying from £7OO to £9OO, and from
Formosa that this can be done by pay-
ing the price of 15 tons of fertiliser.
Stressing that in view of Russia’s defec-
tion China must now “rise solely by
her own efforts,” the communist leaders
meanwhile appear to have made belated
concessions to the moderates. “Individ-
ualism” in scientific research, hitherto a
form of heresy, today enjoys official
approval.
According to Hong Kong sources, the
Chinese Communist Politburo decided in
mid-March to send an envoy to Moscow
later this month in order to effect a recon-
ciliation with the Soviet Union.
On the other hand, the communist Press
is threatening “irresponsible” communists
in the provinces with “re-education.” It
accuses them of arrogance, of thinking
they know better than Peking. Experts
believe that this trend presages a new
rectification campaign, perhaps even a
major purge of communist cadres.
SIR ALBERT BATESON
In our thanks to Lady Bateson for
the memorable pictures of her hus-
band, (page 28) we forgot to thank
Mr Gordon Chater who posed for the
pictures. Without his splendid help,
Sir Albert would have remained a
figment of our imagination.


The Wild
Cat Pages and
THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
THE TREASURER’S STATEMENT
ECONOMIC RECOVERY IS STILL TOO SLOW
HThe Federal Treasurer’s latest statement
A on the economic situation unfor-
tunately sounds a bit smug, despite the
reassuring trend shown by the latest pro-
duction, employment and foreign trade
statistics.
Mr Holt feels that, although the
economy still has some way to go before
the Government would be satisfied with
the general state of affairs, recent
statistics have fully confirmed the “basic
soundness” of the economy and the
strength of the recovery.
Stating that “seasonal and other
influences will, of course, affect the
statistical picture from one month to
another, but there can be no doubt that
a strong upward trend will be continu-
ing”, Mr Holt points out to the £2oBm.
export surplus in the last 12 months,
stabilisation of the balance of payments,
the 5 p.c. rise in home-building activity
in the March quarter, the increase in
motor vehicles registrations and the
“remarkable degree of cost and price
stability.”
/"yvERSEAS trade figures present by far
the brightest side of the overall eco-
nomic picture. Wool sales are steadily
rising both in quantity and value and some
other export products are doing well. The
country as a whole is becoming more
export conscious and the Government’s
export incentives —as yet rather meagre—
are slowly beginning to take effect. The
£ 15.1 m. merchandise export surplus last
April, bringing the total excess of
merchandise exports over imports in the
last ten months to £171.9m., is most
encouraging.
But the most that can be said on the
home front is that employment is slowly
gaining and that a measure of price and
cost stability has been maintained —
mainly in the absence of direct upward
pressures.
Tmprovement in the level of business
1 confidence is still much too slow. Mr
Holt praises the “remarkably liquid” state
of our financial system, with the major
trading banks’ deposits £l24m. higher
than in 1961 and savings deposits £ll9m.
higher. Unfortunately, this is more an
indication of the dormant state of the
economy and the lack of investment
initiative. The system is really much too
liquid and entrepreneurs do not appear
convinced that the time is opportune to
invest in new ventures. The Govern-
ment’s attempts to stimulate business
activity have not proved all that effective.
There is still a considerable slack in
employment. The economy’s ample
liquidity is largely due to the fact that far
too few are willing to take investment
risks. Demand for loanable funds is
accordingly low, not to say deficient.
There has been no upsurge in fixed capital
investment, which is one of the most
reliable pointers to brisk economic
recovery. Hire-purchase, demand for
housing and investment in extension of
industrial capacity are still at a very low
level. No doubt there has been some
general improvement in the economic
situation but the overall rate of recovery
is still very sluggish,
This is best illustrated by the share-
market’s lethargy. Excepting such groups
as oil and banking, buoyant in response
to special influences, the sharemarket con-
tinues to be flat and leading industrial
stocks often find it difficult to hold
ground.
It was fortunate that the Federal Gov-
ernment did not allow itself to be starn-
peded into inflationary moves demanded
vociferous critics at election time
j ast Q ecem b e r. But it has thus far
ne gi ec ted the opportunities—provided bv
« ™
“ price stabili.y-.o offer dynamic
quently, both capital goods and consumer
ectors h P ave f a iled to pick up
«■
y '
.
OUR0 UR P resent forei § n trade successes
should not be allowed to create a
sense of false security. In the nearest
future we will have to fight tooth and nail
for our export markets. Some of our
trade partners who are continuously
experiencing an adverse trade balance in
their dealings with us—such as Japan—
will certainly increase their pressure to sell
more goods to Australia. This could
renew the strains on our balance of pay-
ments. However, all this does not seem
to worry Mr Holt.
EUGENE BAJKOWSKI
INDEX
The Treasurer’s Statement .. 32
Croesus on US Tariffs .. .. 33
Marketing . . .. .. 33
Economics Anonymous .. 34
Advertising .. .. 34
News Pointers . . .. .. 36
A.C.l.’s Share Offer .. .. 36
A.O.G. Rebuts Report .. 36
Housing .. .. 37
Raoid Progress in Italy’s South 38
UK Ford’s Earnings Slip .. 38
French Chemical Industry 40
Clerical Work Measurement .. 40
Plastics Exports .. .. 41
Company Reviews:
Email Ltd . . .. .. 42
The Kauri Timber Co. Ltd 43
Yates Seeds Ltd .. . . 44
Company Notes 45
Sharemarket Summary and
Statistics 48, 49
One to Buy .. .. .. 50
Oil . / 50
Speculator’s Diary .. .. 51
Man on the Land:
Wool. Meat .. .. . . 52
Statistics .. 52, 53


UNITED STATES
KENNEDY'S DRASTIC TARIFFS MOVE
By CROESUS
Tt may be a frightening thought for
A Australian manufacturers, but if Can-
berra took a leaf out of the United
States Government’s book to hold its
trade with Europe, they could be in for
some unpalatable tariff reductions.
For in the new Reciprocal Trade
Agreements Bill, now being pushed
through the US legislatures in time to
be implemented on July 1, President
Kennedy seeks powers for a five-year
period to cut existing tariffs by up to
50 per cent, in bargaining with any
country and, in the case of the Common
Market countries, cuts without limit in
items for which the USA and the
Common Market account for four-fifths
of world trade. Reciprocal tariff reduc-
tions with Common Market countries
would be in addition to those negotiated
earlier this year.
Clearly, the US is prepared to go to
almost any lengths to save its export
markets in Western Europe. The Common
Market countries now take about 30 p.c.
of the 20 billion dollars worth of goods
the US sends abroad each year. In value
the Common Market’s share is not far
short of three times Australia’s whole
exports in a year, which shows the high
significance of the trade at stake.
However, while the US Government
is determined to hold the export line to
Europe, apparently it is also equally
concerned to spare its manufacturers and
their employees the worst repercussions
from tariff cuts. The Australian Indus-
tries Development Association has re-
cently made a searching examination of
the safeguards provided in the same Bill
for local manufacturers affected by any
loss of protection arising from future
tariff reductions.
r T~'HE Reciprocal Trade Agreements Bill
A provides for assistance for individuals,
single firms and even whole industries in
the event of them suffering or even being
threatened with genuine hardship as a
direct result of increased imports. Such
hardship is interpreted very broadly, and
the onus of proving that much suffering
has been caused, or is threatened, lies with
the affected party. It may take the form
of significant idling of plant, prolonged
and persistent inability to operate profit-
ably, or of significant unemployment or
under-employment.
Workers proving loss of jobs resulting
from increases in imports following tariff
cuts would receive 64 p.c. of their usual
wages for a year, together with up to a
further 26 weeks’ pay in special cases.
If no suitable jobs are available locally,
and if the worker has a “bona fide offer
of suitable employment” elsewhere, he
could claim from the Government
moving expenses for his family and a
lump sum payment of two and a half
times the average weekly wage in his
industry.
A firm proving damage would become
eligible for three types of assistance
from the Government. First, technical
assistance such as market research and
management advice by professional con-
sultants. Second, special tax credits,
through which retrospective losses over
five years could be claimed against
current income, instead of the normal
three years. Third, Government loans or
Government loan guarantees for plant
and equipment or for working capital to
help the firm move into a new industry.
In addition to these, the new Bill
provides virtually the same escape clauses
as in the old Tariff Act. By these the
Tariff Commission is required to specify
the “peril point” at which a proposed
tariff cut would imperil any • domestic
industry, and notify the President ac-
cordingly. They also authorise the Presi-
dent to readjust or cancel any tariff
agreement which injured, or threatened
to injure, a local industry, and give the
President power to raise duties or to
impose and adjust quotas “in the national
interest.” A further “escape” is available
through clauses dealing with national
security. These are written in very broad
terms.
Always realistic in its approach to the
expansion of manufacturing industry in
Australia, AIDA is obviously and quite
rightly expecting that Australia, as well
as the US, will have to let down its
own trade barriers if it wants to avert
the worst effects of the Common
Market’s common external tariff, and
will be looking to Canberra to see that
manufacturers here are not thrown to
the wolves as a result.
MARKETING
NEW BID TO BAN COUPONS
'“There is a move among certain food
retailers to once again exert pressure
upon manufacturers to ban coupons, gift
offers involving the return of labels, and
straight-out give-aways. This new mo*
is especially vigorous in Victoria, anc
seems to be inspired by the Victorian
Food Retailers’ Co-operative Co., which
says that interstate agreement to im-
pose the ban may eventually be reached.
Manufacturers, of course, strongly
resent any action that restricts their
right to market goods as they think fit,
and they will fight the retailers to the
death on this matter. So far they have
thwarted previous efforts to introduce
legislation to prohibit the use of coupons,
twin-pack offers, give-aways, etc.
The latest threat by the food retailers
was discussed recently by the AANA,
which laid down a policy that if a manu-
facturer chooses to promote the sale of
his products through these means, he
should be free to do so. In the next few
months the fight will come into the open
if the Victorian Food Retailers’ Co-
operative Co. pursues its course of action.
NEW ZEALAND
AUST. EASTER SHOW SUCCESS
Australia’s trade exhibit at the Auck-
land Easter Show is said to have so
impressed New Zealand businessmen that
practically all of the £50,000 worth of
goods on display were sold. Further
orders, subject to import licensing, could
take the total to more than £lOO,OOO.
Fifty-four Australian manufacturers
displayed goods, including 22 in the
machinery, tools and engineering products
range, seven textile manufacturers and
four electrical equipment makers. About
250,000 people visited the 15-day show.
The impact made by Australian exhibits
may offset the expected drop in demand
for Australian consumer goods following
the latest import licensing schedule
released in the Dominion. This approach
to the New Zealand market parallels Aus-
tralia’s current trade promotion in Japan,
and has shown that Australia can compete
with other exporters to New Zealand in
quality and cost, in addition to offering
savings in time and money on deliveries.
The announcement by the NZ Prime
Minister, Mr Holyoake, that the Dom-
inion would participate in Melbourne and
Sydney trade fairs next year is regarded
as a recognition of the increasing effective-
ness of Australian trade promotion and a
confirmation that Australia and New
Zealand have much to gain from intensi-
fied reciprocal trade.
The Australian pavilion at the Show
covered 11,000 sq. ft of the main hall
and 4000 sq. ft in an annexe. It was
designed by Australian architects,
Brunton, Lilly and Brunton.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Tt is heartening to see some of the less
weighty export industries grasp the
nettle of the country’s need to get into
new markets. Some of these industries
have been fitful exporters, sending abroad
what they could not sell at home rather
than exporting systematically ; in fact pre-
ferring to take the soft option presented
by an assured and growing local market
rather than risking their necks in foreign
parts. Others have attempted to sustain
their exports on a long-term basis and
stuck to it in the face of strong odds.
Take the case of the poultry industry.
On the egg side their performance has
been notable even if weakening some-
what in recent years. It netted about £4m.
in export income last year, mainly from
the UK where we sent 85 p.c. of the
£3.lm. of egg exports in liquid form and
around half of the £850,000 worth sent
abroad in shell. However on the meat
side exports have been puny in recent
years, bringing in only £91,000 last year
mainly from Papua and New Guinea,
whereas ten years ago exports of poultry
meat exceeded £3m. a year.
Tt is now fairly obvious that exports of
eggs are going to suffer if Britain joins
the Common Market. The blow could be
quite sharp in the case of eggs in either
form should eggs from France and the
Low Countries flood the UK market,
though doubtless some of the trade would
be saved. The fact that last year we
exported £450,000 worth to Germany
and Italy suggests that it will be, for a
time at any rate, for clearly the Six and
Britain together do not yet appear to be
self-sufficient in egg production and
demand is very elastic.
However, strong efforts are being
made to get into new markets and
expand old ones —such as in the Persian
Gulf countries, lately the venue of an
Australian trade mission. Other old but
small markets are in South East Asia,
Malta, Hong Kong and the USA, while
one of the big hopes for the future is
South America which is being visited by
a trade mission this month. The prospec-
tive market for Australian eggs there is
put at up to £4m. a year.
TyHiLE the egg side is making big efforts
to hold old markets and win
new ones, the poultry meat producers
believe they can make an even bigger
contribution to export income in the
coming years, starting off virtually from
scratch ; that is, providing they can get
the Government’s full support. They
point on the one hand to the silent revo-
lution that has taken place in their indus-
try in the last few years, a revolution
which has taken it out of the backyard
into the arena of big commercial busi-
ness. On the other hand they say that
if the American poultry industry could
build up such substantial exports as it
has in recent years, Australia, with lower
wages, cheap feeding stuffs and with the
necessary capital investment in modern
and efficient plant can do the same.
Today the US, is exporting poultry
meat at the rate of 80m. dollars a year
to 70 countries, and making an all-out
national drive to raise this to one billion
lb. within ten years. All this has been
achieved over the past six years, despite
the high wages in America, which are
more than double those of Australia.
That country has systemised mass pro-
duction of prime poultry by improved
breeding, genetical research, more effec-
tive disease control, improved methods
of processing, attractive packaging, keen
merchandising and building up public
relations internally arid overseas. In
1960-61, the US exported to Australia
canned poultry to the value of £300,000.
Our poultry organisations were alarmed
at this and appealed to the Government
for higher duty protection. This was
disallowed. Perhaps we overlooked the
fact that the entry of one million lb. of
canned chicken represented an “invisible
import” of over 4 million lb. of grain—
it takes about of feed to produce
lib. of dressed chicken.
HThe advent of American poultry on our
market, however, has had a salutary
effect, because it has indicated methods by
which we could likewise share overseas
markets. We can only expand exports by
bringing down our cost of production
and improving quality.
The extent to which Australia’s broiler
industry has developed over the past five
years is reflected in the growing competi-
tion and resultant reduction in price to
the Australian public. Three years ago
live birds were bringing up to 3s. 6d. a lb.
on the open market, and dressed poultry
sold in the stores at up to 11s. a lb. Today
the prices are, respectively 2s. 6d. and
6s. 6d.
It is reliably estimated that in Eastern
countries within ten years annual con-
sumption of chicken meat could be built
up to from 5 to 101 b a head and in
Western countries from 20 to 30 lb. a
head. At present the yearly consumption
of prime chicken meat is about 91b.
in UK, 301 b. in USA, 61b. in Australia.
In Eastern countries it is negligible. The
potential exporting countries with neces-
sary surpluses of suitable grains and
proteins are USA. South Africa and
Australia. Thus we are favorably situated
geographically and from the production
angle to develop Eastern markets.
Success in exporting broilers would
also help the wheat industry. Observers
say that if within two years we could
build up an export market in proportion
(on a population basis) to America’s
over a similar period, we could export in
one year 5,000 0001 b. of poultry meat,
canned or frozen, representing an equiva-
lent export of more than 20,000,0001 b.
or say, 400,000 bushels of grain. These
figures would be progressively increased
as new markets are developed.
ADVERTISING
US EXPERTS TO LECTURE
Sponsored by the Australian Associa-
tion of National Advertisers, a group
of distinguished advertising authorities
will undertake a lecture tour of Aus-
tralia, starting in Sydney on May 21.
The AANA claims this as the most
important event in our advertising history.
Advertising directors and managers of
most of the largest business organisa-
tions and top executives of agencies will
attend in Sydney alone between 400
and 500 to hear from world experts
about advertising and marketing.
The four-man team, all from America,
are: Walter Weir, chairman of the
executives committee of Donahue and
Co., an agency whose billings last year
totalled £A 15,120,000 ; Harry Wayne
McMahan, a creative TV consultant,
credited with writing 3000 commercials
and producing 16,000 ; Ernest A. Jones,
president of MacManus, John and Adams
agency, whose billings last year totalled
about £A24m. ; and Felix W. Coste,
past president of Outdoor Advertising
Inc.
The programme lists a number of
subjects to be discussed, some of which
have been expatiated upon at Australian
agency seminars over the past few years
though no doubt new angles will be
introduced by the visitors. But there are
other features on the programme which
will hold special interest for us in Aus-
tralia, such as “New Trends in Television
Advertising” and a film “The Progress
of Discontent” a screen version on
the extraordinary presentation developed
by the American Bureau of Television
Advertising to demonstrate the role of
advertising in activating a dynamic
economy.
The AANA has undertaken a pretty
costly job in sponsoring this tour, but if
the lecturers live up to their reputations
the resultant benefits will permeate
through the whole advertising and
marketing structure in Australia.


T OPPORTUNITY
{'V/W) SAO4
II
g!
■nil
BJl#
Hill
in b
Liu
mm
m
■
mr.
JotVl3flV 'SAOJ-XO3
iniimralaii
1
i*bbS™
!s«;
HBH
iis
vanauw "soNiMMoa
'if*
Mi
•rn
-oswuraa 's,ga*w
•Mi*!?
:3N 8n 0 81JW v $ AOi
isCT.'siaililafiS
i IHiISBS SB
CIIU9
SIISCB
latiK
vmmaioiaiaim
liijiiii
12 TRADING COMPANIES
113 STORES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
0
DEPOSIT INVESTMENT
PLAN
The Company will accept deposits which if can profitably
employ and will pay the following rates of interest per annum.
GIORGfS OF im
mil
siM
HIM
ISisSSs!, 9
SMOwsvsyDNiY
sb
Ni
COX BROS,, LAUNCESTON
BRIGHTS, GEEIONG
il
liiiaiiiiigniinimi
X vi*™" 1 uii ji-juihi jnj„*r• ■„ .. !»iwM4ywi- : i.n,w .'A .u......
iTIONS may in- loagßO only on torn.- .1 i .lii.„ tn <he printed c?pi« thy* pimprrtus. which may be obtained from:
# The Secretary, Cox 'Brothers (Australia} Limited, /!> Flinders lane, Melb.
# The Manager of any store in the Cox Bros froup. *
|i Any Member ot a Stock Exchange.
e
67 t-ifi/W


NEWS POINTERS
AUSTRALIA
• A ustralian exports of merchandise for ten months to April, 1962,
amounted to £882.6m. (up £144.5m.). Imports of merchandise
totalled £710.7m. (down £221.1m.), leaving an export surplus of £171.9m.
(deficit of £193.7m. in the same period of 1960-61). Export surplus for
April, 1962, was £15.1m., with exports at £86.4m. and imports at £71.3m.
Total wool exports (excluding skins) in the nine months to March, 1962,
were valued at £285.8m. (up £39.8m.).
• The Federal Treasurer, Mr Holt, said that, although the economy still
had some way to go before the Government would be satisfied with the
general state of business and employment, the latest statistics fully confirmed
its basic soundness and the strength of the recovery.
• Mr Takeshi Fujiwara, chief representative for Kanematsu Ltd and
Japan’s oldest woolbuyer in Australia, warned about increasing competition
from South African wool. Mr Fujiwara said that although Japan still prefers
to buy from Australia, South African wool was cheaper and improving in
quality. He urged an improvement in the standards of classing of Australian
clip. Although “nothing compares with wool,” more should be spent on
wool promotion in Japan. Mr Fujiwara, who is retiring after 40 years of
direct association with the Australian wool industry, will continue to work
for the expansion of trade between Japan and Australia and expects to be
active in the Japan-Australia Society.
• Kapitan Kosko, a 10,000-ton Polish Ocean Lines cargo liner, left Sydney
for Poland with 8643 bales of wool. The ship will pick up a further 7043
bales in Melbourne, 4051 bales in Adelaide and 2928 bales in Fremantle.
• The New Zealand Prime Minister, Mr K. Holyoake, said in Sydney that
New Zealand “will face disaster” if Britain joins the Common Market with-
out adequate protection for Commonwealth trade. Mr Holyoake supported
Australia’s efforts to protect Commonwealth markets and is expected to
discuss the Common Market problems with US Secretary of State, Mr Dean
Rusk, who arrived in Canberra for the ANZUS Council meeting.
OVERSEAS
• r T'HE West German Minister of Economics, Prof. L. Erhard, has asked
A West German car manufacturers to cancel the 3 p.c. to 10 p.c. price
increases announced last month. Following his meeting with representatives
of the Volkswagen, Mercedes and NSU boards and the West German Auto-
mobile Industry Association, the Volkswagen board met at Wolfsburg to
consider the Government’s demands.
• The Iraq Government is expected to demand another increase in its
present 50 p.c. share in the revenues of foreign oil companies.
© Norway is expected shortly to make a formal application to join the
European Common Market.
• A Malayan Treasury mission is negotiating a tax agreement with the
Japanese Finance Ministry.
© Japan’s mining and manufacturing output rose by 20.9 p.c. in the fiscal
year 1961-62. Machinery production recorded a 26.3 p.c. production rise
but iron-steel, non-ferrous metals, paper pulp and some durable consumer
goods showed a marked downward trend. A Soviet mission offered to buy
Japanese machinery for the development of Siberia if Japan will import
Soviet coal, oil and iron and other mineral ores.
© Total UK-Polish trade turnover in 1961 increased by 19 p.c. British
exports to Poland rose by 56 p.c. to £stg23.3m. and imports by 3 p.c. to
£stg36.Bm.
© The US Commissioner of Labor Statistics estimates that automation will
eliminate at least 200,000 jobs a year in America over the next decade.
® The Soviet-British Chamber of Commerce stressed that “though trade
between Britain and the USSR is growing steadily, there is still vast scope
for improvement.” Overall value of trade between UK and USSR in 1961
amounted to £stgls4.sm. (up 20 p.c.). Machinery, iron and steel and
chemicals remain UK’s main export items to USSR. Wood and wood
manufactures are the main import items.
OIL SHARES
A.O.G. CHAIRMAN REBUTS REPORT
lAirectors of Australian Oil and Gas
JL - / Corporation Ltd. have voiced con-
cern at “most unfair” criticism directed
at the extension of rights trading to the
present share issue. The chairman, Sir
Kenneth Coles, points out that the com-
pany had agreed to the Sydney Stock
Exchange's request for extension.
Sir Kenneth wrote to the Sydney Stock
Exchange: “When we received your
request by telephone on Monday morn-
ing (April 30), the secretary was notified
that we did not wish to have any exten-
sion, but were prepared to receive late
applications, so that shareholders would
not be penalised because brokers were
unable to take the necessary steps to
protect their clients. In acceding to your
second request, which we did with con-
siderable reluctance, we feel that a great
deal of extra work and inconvenience
has been occasioned and that our board
has been subject to criticism in a most
unfair manner, as all entitlements had
been posted to shareholders at the due
date (April 2).”
Closing date for applications is now
May 14. Rights trading goes on until
May 28.
MALAYA
A.C.I.'S SHARE OFFER
A USTRALIAN CONSOLIDATED INDUSTRIES
Ltd is forming a new holding com-
pany in Malaya, Malayan Containers
Ltd, to acquire the entire share capital
of Singapore Glass Manufacturers Co.
Ltd and 70 p.c. of the capital of Malayan
Fibre Containers Ltd. A Malayan com-
pany, to be nominated by the Federation
Government, will hold the remaining 30
p.c. in Malayan Fibre Containers Ltd.
At least one-third, and possibly 40 p.c.,
of the 16.9 m. of the issued Malayan
$ 1-shares of the holding Malayan Con-
tainers Ltd will be offered to local in-
vestors. Malayan Industrial Development
Finance Ltd will handle share applica-
tions.
ACl’s bold pioneering move is a
welcome example of enlightened self-
interest and should improve economic
and political relations between Australia
and Malaya and Singapore. It is only to
be hoped that a similar policy will soon
be adopted by major overseas investors
in this country.
Australian investment on mutually
advantageous terms should help accelerate
industrial development in the Federation
and expand the market for Australian
goods in the long run. It will also create
a lot of goodwill.


CUSTOM CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
(PAID UP CAPITAL £7,000 ; 000)
100 New South Head Road, Edgecliff, Sydney
Secretary-General: KEITH LOVE. Tel.: 32-01 I I
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
• • •
7%
6% . .
5% . .
4% . .
4 years and over
12 months' notice
6 months' notice
3 months' notice
Interest is paid in Equal Quarterly Instalments,
Free of Exchange, on the last days of June,
September, December and March.
DIRECTORS
lAN M. JACOBY
(Chairman and Managing Director)
L. W. COPPLESON G. T. HARTIGAN
R. E. ASH C; S. GITTOES
TRUSTEES
FOR THE DEBENTURE HOLDERS:
The Perpetual Trustee Company (ltd.)
This is not a Prospectus. A copy of the Prospectus
covering this issue of Registered Debentures has been
lodged with the Registrar of Companies, Sydney.
Application must be made on the Forms enclosed
in the Prospectus, which is now available from
All Members of
The Stock Exchange
All Branches of
The National Bank
All Branches of
Custom Credit Corporation
limited
RD41.462
HOUSING
HIGH COST OF SERVICED LAND
r T''HE cost of serviced land is becoming
more pronounced as a factor of high
building costs. This increase in costs
has been caused by Councils demanding
that land developers pay the cost of
services for their own land sub-divisions.
Mr B. J. McDonald, President of the
Institute of Real Estate Development, has
recently outlined some details of how
far the practice has spread since the
Sydney Metropolitan Water Board de-
cided in February, 1961, that developers
should pay for their own water main
amplification and reticulation.
“The Water Board's reason," said Mr
McDonald, “was that reticulation was as
much a cost of a sub-division as roads,
footpaths, kerbing, guttering. and
drainage."
Taking a recent example Mr McDonald
quoted the case of sub-division of 4000
acres in the Baulkham Hills Black-
town area (near Sydney) where £980.000
was required from the developer, in the
first instance, for amplifying water mains
to the sub-division. Of this amount
£390.000 would be repaid to the de-
veloper by 1964. A further £BOO,OOO was
asked by the Water Board for water
reticulation throughout the settlement.
Mr McDonald said that these costs load
the price of each block by about £l5O.
The Victorian picture is much the same.
An industry study entitled “An
Analysis of Housing Finance in Vic-
toria 1946-1961." produced by the Build-
ing Industry Committee for Long-Term
Low-Deposit Housing Finance, traces
the rise in some land-home ratios. Be-
tween 1946 and 1961 the percentage of
Victorian land-price to house-plus-land
for War Service Homes rose from 9 p.c.
to 25 p.c.
According to the report, “the sub-
stantial increase in the land-price con-
tent of the housing loan is only partly
due to increased demands for land and
general filtration. A large proportion
stems directly from the fact that Muni-
cipal Councils are making it obligatory
on sub-dividers to provide full street and
drainage construction. The need for the
sub-divider to provide water mains and
power lines also adds to the cost. The
local Councils were given power to re-
quire Victorian sub-dividers to provide
street constructions in new sub-divisions
by the Local Government Act passed in
1955.”
To illustrate its point this building
industry group, has prepared a hypo-
thetical sub-division case study, based
on its own research.
With services provided, the minimum
quote for each lot is £1414. With services
eliminated it is £603 per lot £379 14s.
could be absorbed in the road and
drainage charges.
These are higher, in fact, than if the
Council itself would provide them because
added costs immediately accrue from
them, demanding a higher standard of
construction than they provide them-
selves. According- to accepted land de-
velopment practice, drainage work outside
each sub-division must be charged to
that lot, whereas councils, on the other
hand, would spread these costs over the
entire catchment.
This same report goes on to point out
that by insisting that the sub-divider
should provide the services, Councils
have placed new pressures on lending
institutions to find more money for
homes.
With land costs, on the average, ab-
sorbing about one-third of the total
financial outlay to build a home, the
Federal Government might consider
helping young married couples by allow-
ing instalments on their land to be deduc-
ted from their taxable income , as in
the case of life assurance premiums.
B. H. CLAPOTT


ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
RAPID PROGRESS IN ITALY'S SOUTH
From our Correspondent in Rome
Tn the 17 years since the end of World
War 11, Italy has been transformed
from depression and gloom into a coun-
try of thriving industrial and agricultural
enterprises. The task of rehabilitation
was so great after the ravages of war that
the Government had to resort to a wide
measure of nationalisation. Today about
one-third of Italy’s industry and services
is under Government control.
The Italian State is represented in the
industry by a vast super-holding com-
pany, the Institute for Industrial Recon-
struction (IRI), with some 20 subsidiary
holding companies whose names gener-
ally begin with “Fin.” —Finmare for
shipping, Finsider for iron and steel,
Finmeccanica for machine tools and
machinery, Finelectrica for electrical
power and equipment, etc.
All this began when Marshall Aid
started to pour in and somebody had to
administer it to get results. Where pos-
sible, this was done by private enterprise
as, for instance, in Fiat’s huge factories
in Turin. But other concerns, more
thoroughly destroyed during the war,
lacked suitable managers, so the State
had to step in. Now more and more
Italian machines are being installed and
although most of the steel mill equip-
ment is still American one of the biggest
slab mills in Europe was recently built
in Italy, under an American licence.
“Mezzogiorno”
T>ossibly more important and just as
A pressing as the control of industrial
growth were the State’s efforts in the so-
called “Mezzogiorno,” an enormous
stretch of land reaching from some por-
tions of the old Papal State to Sicily and
Sardinia. Here, just under half the area
of the whole of Italy is producing barely
one-fifth of the gross national product.
Formerly, land was largely held by absen-
tee landlords who, in some cases, had
never seen their estates.
It is easy for an outsider to say the
Italian Government has been too soft
and should have taken this land for noth-
ing. The fact is that these “latifundia”
owners received minimum prices for
undeveloped land, which now would sell
for 50 times the amount. It is also true
that quite a few of these former drones
have come back to their rump farms —
after gentle pressure from all sort of sides
or for the sake of tradition —and now
work their land properly.
All new settlers receive full assistance
—financial and advisory—from the
“Cassa per il Mezzogiorno.” This insti-
tution —half bank, half extension service
has raised the gross national product
for the south by the same percentage as
the rapidly developing industrial north.
Today, Italy’s agriculture is still mainly
producing carbohydrates and little pro-
tein. The aim of the “Cassa” is to re-
place all the poor-quality buffaloes with
quick - maturing, high - producing beef
cattle, mainly of the Friesian type.
Thousands of new farms have been
carved from the over-sized feudal posses-
sions. Settlers receive minimum housing,
equipment and livestock on long-term
loans with very low interest rates, plus
maximum advice for nothing. On paper,
anyone can apply for these farms but, in
practice, the younger sons of old farmers
are usually the winners.
interesting branch of the agriculr
ture service is the calf-weaning centre.
Knowing that the shortage of protein is
too acute for good milk to be wasted on
these “babies” if a substitute can be used
effectively, all farmers are encouraged
to sell their calves to the centre within
a week of calving. In this way the centre
gets practically all the calves, which are
now scientifically reared on “artificial”
milk a Dutch skim milk product with
added calcium, vitamins and antibiotics.
As soon as the calves are sufficiently
grown they are sold back to the farmer
at a very advantageous price.
This system has the advantage of
putting high-class stock in the hands
of every settler without burdening him
with scientific lectures and highly
specialised instructions, and freeing in-
structors for other work.
Social Services
the Government was too busy re-
T constructing the industry and develop-
ing the south, social improvements had
to play second fiddle. There are
three or four agencies dealing with
therapeutic, prophylactic, post-curative
and special medical problems, but the
system is clumsy. Private enterprise
is now taking the lead in a way \ rich
hardly, if at all, has a parallel in the world.
For example, the Olivetti typewriter
and calculator people at Ivrea operate a
medical centre with full-time services of
five physicians for just over 10,000 em-
ployees, apart from specialists in every
field, dentists, physiotherapists and
others. All the doctors are independent
consultants, not employees of Olivetti,
leaving them free to criticise any factory
practice they consider unhealthy or un-
hygienic. They have four rooms with
special equipment for affected throats,
rooms for heat, ray, short and ultra-
short wave treatment at their disposal.
There is a room for quick x-rays like
the Australian street chest centres. Single
dressing rooms for every person remove
the feeling of mass inspection. Other
rooms are filled with the most modern
x-ray machinery, equipment to test meta-
bolism, two laboratories for blood,
sugar and any other chemical or biologi-
cal analyses, and a modern cardiograph
unit. Every employee and all his depen-
dents are treated free. Incidentally no-
body looking for work is turned away
for health reasons. Even people suffering
from venereal disease are accepted, if
only to cure them.
But even this is not always enough to
offset communist influence in the labor
unions and more must yet be done.
J. G. H.
UK MOTOR INDUSTRY
FORD'S EARNINGS SLIP 34 P. C.
nPHE huge Ford Motor Company’s pro-
A fits before tax were 34 p.c. down in
1961 compared with the previous year—
£A27.7sm. against £A42.125m. The reduc-
tion in income after tax was from
£A23.5m. to £A17.875m., according to
figures given in the annual report.
There has been another deterioration
in the first three months of 1962, which
apparently is much more serious than
anything in the corresponding period a
year ago. The number of units sold fell
from 546,769 to 504,812, but cash turn-
over was down by only 4 p.c. This was
mostly due to a drop of nearly 50,000 in
exports, largely because of reduced ship-
ments to the United States and increased
local manufacture in Commonwealth
countries.
Sir Patrick Hennessy, the company’s


CORPORATION LIMITED
■
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on Bth March, 1950.
(ASSETS EXCEED £10,000,000.)
FUNDS MAY BE
WITHDRAWN
IN A PERSONAL
EMERGENCY
4 YEARS
' REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE
-W-- ■ STOCK
Applications for debenture stock and redeemable unsecured deposit
notes accepted only on form of application attached to prospectus,
obtainable from
Principal Offices of the Bank of N.S.W.
in all capital cities
OR
The Company's Offices:
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Floor, Empire House, Corner Wharf and
Queen Streets.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street.
NEWCASTLE: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter Street,
Newcastle West.
OR
Any Member of a Stock Exchange
Underwriting Brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melb.)
CC.130/AB
The
NORTHERN LIFE
Assurance Company of Australia Limited
(Incorporated in Canberra, Australia)
All Classes of Ordinary Life Assurance,
Superannuation and Annuity Policies Issued
HEAD OFFICE: 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone BL 5601 K, J. Hedley, General Manager
chairman, said he was optimistic about
export prospects this year, and thought
there was a good chance of recapturing
or exceeding the 1960 volume. Exports
to the Common Market rose by 78 per
cent. last year, and he expected another
substantial jump in 1962. Ford contribu-
ted over £Al25m. to British export earn-
ings last year, and this year it was
expected to be “significantly higher.”
“But all this depends,” Sir Patrick said,
“on avoiding all the many disruptions to
which the motor industry and British in-
dustry generally are subject, but which
are not borne by any of our competitors.
Sometimes I feel we're almost prepared
to commit industrial hara-kiri.” (He was
referring to the threatened dock strike,
to labor troubles that beset the motor
industry, and to the violent and artificial
changes in demand brought about by
Government economic restrictions.)
Sir Patrick said he believed the main
reason for the disproportionate fall in
profits was the increase in costs brought
about by these factors. He hoped a fur-
ther cut in purchase tax on cars before
the end of the year was “not a ridiculous
expectation.”
At 45 per cent., British purchase tax is
well above the Common Market average.
Sir Patrick believed it was part of Mr.
Selwyn Lloyd's plan to reduce a good
deal further the very large spread of pur-
chase tax between different items.
r jp HE company's expansion programme
was unchanged, despite last year’s
disappointments, on the assumption that
there would be further reductions in tax
and other restrictions on domestic trade.
Capital expenditure, in 1961 exceeded
£A42.5m„ more than the total of the
previous two years; and for 1962 an
even higher figure was planned. Invest-
ment in fixed assets was now £A2500 per
employee, compared with £ABI2 in 1955
and would continue to expand.
Sir Patrick said that the takeover of
the UK company ,by its US parent had
not affected his export plans. If anything,
US Ford was even more anxious for their
success now that the size of its invest-
ment had been increased. “We have been
prepared to export without profits,” he
said, "but we can't go on successfully if
we can't make anything on the home
market either. We can't afford to suffer
any more all these disabilities that they
don t have in Italy, Germany or France.”
Ford, which gave its employees a wage
increase and a reduction in the working
week towards the end of last year, is now
faced with another demand for a “sub-
stantial increase,” to which it is dve to
reply on May 14; The company may be
expected to take a reasonably strong line,
in view of the pressures on the motor in-
dustry's costs and profits, which it is
making special efforts to bring to the
public's attention.


In
n
■M
I!AGEe|
Brand*
LTD*■W' l^ ■*;*:'£
YOUR
FAVOURITE
BRANDY
fine Australian
pot-still'
mm
STAGINGS
BRANDY
FRANCE
CHEMICAL INDUSTRY BOOMING
"Crance can now claim to have the most
rapidly growing chemical industry in
Western Europe.
Led by such major companies as
Kuhlmann, Pechiney, Progil, Rhone-
Poulec, Saint-Gobain and Ugine, this
aggressive sector of the French economy
now produces more than three times as
much as a decade ago. In 1961 a gross
income of £A 1620 m. was earned (up
£Al35m. over 1960) and export earnings
reached £A247.5m. —£A9m. more than in
1960. The chemical industry’s total out-
put reached 2.1 m. metric tons of sulphuric
acid, 800,000 mt. tons of nitrogenous pro-
ducts (including fertilisers), 430,000 m.
tons of calcium carbide, 350,000 metric
tons of chloride, 90,000 m. tons of meth-
anol and 68,000 m. tons of synthetic
phenol.
At present, France produces about 4.5
p.c. of the world’s chemicals, and com-
petes with Japan for the fifth place among
the national chemical industries, after
the USA, the USSR, West Germany and
the UK. Investment in the chemical
industry totalled £A103.5m. in 1960 and
another £A103.5m. in 1961. The 1962-65
programme calls for a further £A45Om.
The greatest growth in recent years has
been in organic chemicals, now represen-
ting 45 p.c. of the industry’s output.
Because of the notable expansion of
the French economy and the sharp and
widespread rise in the French standard of
living, the rapid development of petro-
leum and petrochemical production would
have been essential, even without the oil
discoveries in the Sahara, which have
shown oil reserves of more than 750 mil-
lion tons and gas reserves of well over 70
million cubic ft. In addition there are
natural gas reserves of about 200,000
million sq. metres near Lacq.
In 1953 the first two petrochemical
plants were built near Marseilles by Shell
and Naphtachimie. Since then five more
major areas of petrochemical production
have been developed, one of the most
important being at Lacq. By the end of
this year there will be more than 50
French petrochemical plants in operation.
CJTABLE prices, new products, high quality
manufactures and substantially
automated firms have enabled French
chemical enterprises to do well in the
growing international competition.
In fact, in the national four-year plan
(1962-65) a steady annual expansion rate
of 9.1 p.c. is the minimum commitment
for the chemical industry—ll. 2 p.c. for
organic chemicals, 6.9 p.c. for mineral
chemicals. This compares with the 5.5
p.c. overall rate of annual industrial
expansion in the 1962-65 plan.
French progress in the chemical field
is the more remarkable in view of the pre-
-1945 fragmentation of the industry into
a multitude of small, undercapitalised
companies. Even now, although there
have been a number of absorptions by the
larger enterprises and mergers as well as
joint ventures, France's 12 biggest com-
panies (without subsidiaries) account
directly for only 25 p.c. of the industry’s
total sales.
“France has had some strong advan-
tages. French chemists have always been
highly competent,” says the “Chemical
and Engineering News”, published by the
American Chemical Society, commenting
on France’s present successes. “Co-ordin-
ated planning by Government and
industry, fostered in 1946 by Jean
Monnet and nurtured through all the
various political crises of the Fourth
Republic, has provided clear goals for
the country’s business enterprises.”
The amount of chemicals France buys
and sells abroad has risen sharply. In
1960 imports of chemical products rose
by 30 p.c. from the previous year’s
amount, to a total value of £A162.5m. In
the same period exports went up by
25 p.c. to £A238.5m. Last year, imports
were valued at £A!BOm. and exports at
£A252.5m.
During the first 11 months of 1961
the US exported to France £A2l.6m. of
chemical products and imported from
France £All.7m. France endeavors to
increase its chemical sales, especially
synthetic organic products to US. But
this sector of the American economy is
protected by a very tough tariff.
Not only do custom duties, both
ad valorem and specific, reach
prohibitive rates of 40, 50 and 60 p.c.
and upwards—out of proportion to the
British (33| p.c.), or the European Com-
mon Market external tariff (25 p.c. maxi-
mum) —but, in addition, the dutiable
value, on which American duties are
based, is deliberately calculated to raise
the protection. In the case of numerous
synthetic organic chemicals, the dutiable
value is not the price shown on the
exporter’s invoice, but the actual US
selling price on the US domestic market.
This puts a severe brake on French
chemical sales to the United States. It is
yet to be seen how the recent US-Com-
mon Market Tariff agreement will affect
the situation.
JOHN WALDEMAR
MANAGEMENT
Clerical Work Measurement
A growing number of large companies
in the US are trying to speed up
clerical work and cut costs by setting
definite output standards for their white-
collar armies. They are doing this under
a system known as Clerical Work
Measurement, an office version of the
time-and-motion studies long practised on
the assembly line.
The studies, in many cases, have
been tracing a picture of inefficiency and
time-wasting that would make some
factory managers furious. It is estimated


better return
Pick
up
a
with
Ws
&0S
mssm
wmmmm
, s /sjr,V»
: ; i-
-1
P.A. for 8 and 10 years
witn
REID MURRAY
Acceptance Limited
Reg. First Mortgage Debenture Stock
FIXED LONG TERM STOCK
SHORT TERM NOTICE STOCK
PA on 12
mtfts. notice
6^
PA on 6
O mths. notice
Stye*
P.A. on 3
:i>th£. notice
4<70 PA at call
Applications accepted only on forms at-
tached to the Prospectus. Available from:
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 1924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melb.
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William Street, Adelaide
408 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of Stock Exchange of
Adelaide Ltd.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £7,000,000
RMA. 20 V
GUARANTEED BY REID MURRAY HOLDINGS LTD.
that the average white-collar woman
worker —often through no fault of her
own —does only 50 p.c. to 60 p.c.. as
much work as she could if her time were
used to the best advantage. By simplify-
ing routines and holding its office girls
to a steady work pace, a New York life
assurance company in two years wiped
out more than 1000 of 3380 jobs while
handling more business than ever. A
Philadelphia drug company eliminated 21
positions in a 157-man department. A
manufacturer of aircraft and space
engines in California cut paperwork
costs by 24.3 p.c.
The Clerical Work Measurement study
operates in different ways according to
the type of business. In some cases, em-
ployees are filmed at their desks as they
perform their work. Sometimes analysts
are armed with cameras and stop-watches
in timing office workers performing such
tasks as removing papers from a type-
writer and separating typed copies from
the carbon paper. By putting together
such measurements, they can formulate
standards as to how many invoices, say,
a typist should be able to fill out in an
hour.
Analysts found that in a trust com-
pany’s office 19 clerks were putting in
2822 hours a month to do work that
could have been performed in 1682 hours;
in another office a clerk took 157 hours
over work that should have taken only
53 hours.
Under the sponsorship of W. D. Scott
and Co. Pty Ltd, Mr R. L. Ganzi, presi-
dent of Paul B. Mulligan and Co. Inc.,
of New York, who developed Clerical
Work Measurement, last week addressed
a group of executives from banks, insur-
ance companies and large industrial
enterprises. He emphasised that the
system offended no trade union principles
and did, in fact, tend to promote a more
harmonious relationship betv/een manage-
ment and employees.
PLASTICS EXPORTS
AUSTRALIAN CO'S SUCCESS
A/fORE than 50,000 plastic raincoats, and
■ “marine vests” for boating and
water-skiing have been sold by an Aus-
tralian company in England, Switzerland,
Germany, Denmark, Holland, Belgium,
France and Canada, and substantial re-
peat orders are being received. New
markets are also being opened up in.
Singapore and Thailand.
Mr Alex de Zoete, sales manager of
Plastalon Holdings Ltd, of Melbourne,
announced this on his return from a
three months’ sales tour. Mr John
Kreveld, chairman of the company, said
originality in styling and design, as well
as the cost, were largely responsible for
this, its first export success.


COMPANY REVIEWS AND NOTES
EMAIL LTD
POLICY TURNED UP TRUMPS
TT has become almost a standard line
of complaint to plead the damaging
effect of the credit squeeze upon con-
sumer durables manufacture and sales.
Certainly the Sydney-based elec-
trical and industrial group Email Ltd
suffered here, along with several others
of its ilk, but, from both the structural
and the investment viewpoint, not so
much.
A fairly fortunate assemblage of cir-
cumstances, chiefly connected with invest-
ments and assets disposal, enabled the
company to emerge relatively unimpaired
from the year to December last. Direc-
tors seem quite justified in asserting that,
despite the considerable drop in trading
profit, “the results achieved are reason-
ably satisfactory.”
Indeed they have not had to confront
staggering losses as have Pope Industries
and Electronic Industries, nor even
E.M.l.’s much more acute profit retreat.
Of course, only about half of Email’s
numerous activities cover strict con-
sumer goods. That apparently random
diversification, looked at a little askance
merely a few years ago, turns up trumps.
However, there still rests a rather con-
siderable case for the continuous merging
and rationalisation of a host of sub-
sidiaries. Directors remain well seized
of this, since the past year saw further
moves in a process of reorganisation. Two
subsidiaries, Buzacott (Aust.) Pty Ltd and
James Balfour and Co. Pty Ltd, joined ;
another, Commonwealth Ceramics Pty
Ltd, was grafted to a like activity of
A.C.I. These, and possibly similar future
moves, must accomplish thoroughly desir-
able economies, for operations range over
an extensive field.
The parent company was born in 1934,
as a merger of Electricity Meter and
Manufacturing Co. Pty and New System
Telephones Pty. It now embraces more
than 30 separate offshoots, some of which
are Brooks Robinson Pty Ltd, R. Werner
and Co. Pty Ltd, Emmco Pty Ltd, W. T.
Carmichael Pty Ltd, Harris Hutchinson
Ply Ltd and Westinghouse Rosebery
(NZ) Ltd. Factory plants are spread over
NSW and Victoria, with the biggest at
Orange (NSW).
A picture of actual production would
have to display agricultural machinery,
air conditioning and refrigeration, build-
ing materials and ceramics, communica-
tions and electrical equipment, vending
necessities (bottles, cans, cartons, change
mechanisms), meters, plastic ware, indus-
trial machinery (cranes, hoists, com-
pressors, machine tools, motors, die cast-
ings, etc, etc.), and the debated consumer
appliances. The latter include clothes
dryers, coffee makers, electric ranges and
heaters, fans, radio and television
receivers, washing machines, electric
water heaters, Fyrside heaters, gas ranges
and heaters, and so on —all the articles
specifically imperilled by the squeeze.
Added to all this comes a distinguished
array of representations and part interests.
Email is Australian agent for Mitsu-
bishi’s heavy electrical equipment section.
It owns a “substantial” holding in
Formica Plastics Pty Ltd, controls 50 per
cent, of T. R. Services Pty Ltd (broad-
casting, telephone and time equipment
installation) and 50 per cent, of British
Xylonite (Aust.) pty Ltd:
Consolidated Figures.
Net , Divs. N To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit Pref. Ord. Total serves serves.*
£ £ £ £
’58..722,075 6 p.c. 9 p.c.=499,725 222,350 4,683,632
Capital profits, £67,783 .. .. 4,751,415
Add general reserve, £173,027 . . 4,924,442
Provision no longer required,
£46,149 4,970,591
Less adjustment, outside interests,
£76,702 4,893,889
Reduction intangibles, £43,930 . . 4,937,819
’59..732,080 6p c. 12ip.c.=691,729 40,351 4,978,170
Capital profits, £131,898 .. .. 5,110,068
Less adjustment, outside interests,
„ , *5,270 5,100,798
Reduction intangibles, £2,298 . . 5,103 096
’60..713,23S 6 p.c. 10 p.e.=554,584 158,654 5,261,750
Capital profits, £185,623 .. .. 5,450,373
Added general reserve, £14,298 .. 5,464,671
Tax provision no longer required,
£66,000 5,530,671
Reduction intangibles, £479,117 ... 6,009,788
From reserves to meet dividends,
£33,836 5,975,952
’61..520,748 6 p.c. 10p.c.=554,584 5,975,952
* After allowing for excess cost over par-value share
in subsidiaries.
One recent disposal provoked a flutter
among the knowing. In January, 1961,
the company sold its shareholding in
ATN Channel 7, Sydney, for “a capital
profit of approximately £500,000” and of
which more anon. Last year also pro-
duced a handsome gain from a sale of
a swag of shares in Australian Paper
Manufacturers. But acquisitions do not
cease—l96l gave a sizeable holding in
Country Television Services Ltd, winner
of the licence to establish a TV station
serving the Central Western District of
NSW and centred at Orange. Well could
Email’s chairman, Mr E. G. F. Horne,
say last year: “We will continue to
support this industry in other ways as
opportunity permits.”
A lready the close of the 1960 financial
year began to wear a slightly
chequered look, though consolidated
profit hit £713,239—0n1y £18,842 below
the 1959 peak. Mr Horne felt it necessary
to remind the annual meeting about im-
ports relaxation, rising costs and credit
difficulties.
His warning fitted the time. Yet it is
almost a relief to see the 1961 result
dipping only to £520,748. This actually
means a decline of £124,388 on the pre-
vious year’s stated profit. In the bounc-
ing days, profit had been declared after
a massive provision for increased cost of
plant replacement, as well as the usual
depreciation and tax.
Depreciation has always appeared ade-
quate taxation-wise, so this replacement
item may be treated as an appropriation
and first added back into the profit. The
1959 and 1960 profits quoted above both
contain this “provision,” in the amounts
of £lOO,OOO and £68,102 respectively.
After bringing in sundry surpluses from
sales of investments and equipment, plant
replacement gained £191,887 for 1961,
but this amount is soberly handled as a
genuine appropriation. The fortuitous
and non-recurrent benefits may present
an impression of window-dressing, yet the
asset position has been held and even
improved.
The precise non-trading accessions com-
prise investments and plant sales surplus
£711,132 ; prior income tax written back
£66,000; and a trifling £lOB7 revenue
from a newly acquired subsidiary. After
the plant replacement and a small transfer
to capital reserves, intangibles (excess of
valuation over par value of shares in
subsidiaries) are reduced by a net
£479,117, with a concomitant increase in
reserves.
Greatest relief of all no doubt stems
from directors’ decision to pay an
unchanged 10 per cent, ordinary dividend.
Together with a 6 per cent, preference
requirement, full dividend needs £554,584,
or £33,836 in excess of the trading profit.
The margin barely makes a dent in the
year’s capital profits.
Earning rate naturally takes a bit of a
tumble, dropping from 11.7 to 9.3 per
cent. Only once in recent years has it
edged below that level —9.11 per cent, in
1957. Ordinary capital has often
appeared somewhat swollen at £5,485,831,
though the big lifts have been produced
by bonus issues (one-for-four in 1955
and one-for-one in 1956, the company’s
last issue reward to shareholders). The
profit remains after depreciation £419,236
(down £68,717) and tax slashed by
£270.472 to £223,607 on allowing “for
losses incurred by certain subsidiaries in
past years.”
By and large, the balance-sheet reveals
little really dramatic movement, but it
certainly does not disguise the group’s
solidity. Capital is backed by a total
£5,975,952 of reserves, which added a net
£714,202 during 1961. The strong specific
provisions have nudged downwards.
Warranty and research items each stay
at £500,000, but the blanket “taxation


service, statutory leave and other pro-
visions” shed £543,917 to stand at
£1,555,802.
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1959 1960 1961
Pref. .. £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Ord. . . 5,485,831 5,485,831 5,485,831
Reserves .. 4,978,170 5,261,750 5,975,952
Outside interests 141,201 50,047 86,98 S
Debentures, etc. 565,458 713,458 713,458
Creditors .. 2,065,054 1,987,349 1,549,062
Overdraft . . 1,713,246 1,348,166
balances .. 340,820
Tax provisions,
etc * .. 3,180.985 3,099,719 2,555,802
Final divs. . . 466,296 274,292 274,292
£17,282,995 £15,715,692 £18,430,321
Freehold, plant,
etc 4,874,204 4,546,668 4,525,967
Stocks .. 5,312,7.59 6,546,291 6,553,/lz
Debtors, etc. . . 5,673,791 5,907,350 5,631,566
H.p. agreements,
less provisions 1,042,726 1,566,0L_
Inter-co.
balances .. 605,529 217,337
Cash, etc. .. 813,712 155,290 149, <49
£17,282,995 £18,715,692 £18,430,321
* Including service and other provisions.
Creditors have been reduced by £438,
287 to £1,549,062 and overdraft also, by
£365,080 to £1,348,166. On the other
hand, both stocks and debtors fell back
—stocks from £6,846,291 to £6,553,717
and debtors from £5,907,380 to
£5,631,566.
It is interesting that the group’s own
hire-purchase dealings have been lifted
and here some assistance might well have
gone to the consumer side. Outstandings
(net of income yet to mature) rose by
£523,596 to £1,566,322.
All in all there can be no radical
despondency when the assets backing of
the ss. shares has been shifted up from
9s. lOd. to 10s. sd. a share. Market
prices are now around 7s. lOd. to yield
6.4 per cent The 1962 high of 9s. 4d.
contrasts with 1961’s 10s 3d. and 14s 7d.
in 1960. As the problems recede, perhaps
income benefits will be more obvious
than capital growth.
Last Friday’s annual meeting listened
to plenty of heartening reassurance. The
chairman began this by reporting a sales
increase over recent months, adding that
“directors believe this improvement will
continue to gain momentum.” The move
into “allied, but not entirely dependent
fields” got a decided pat on the back.
TV received much more than a passing
nod. Email joins a varied group of
companies seeking the third Sydney
commercial licence. Its companions in
this newly sponsored group effort are
A.W.A., C.S.R., the Bank of NSW, J. C.
Williamson Theatres and the NRMA.
THE KAURI TIMBER CO. LTD
CURRENT OUTLOOK IMPROVES
T ike the snail when it runs into trouble,
Kauri Timber Co. Ltd, has had to
pull in its horns sharply following the
severe drubbing it took in 1960-61. The
current outlook is a little better but it is
likely to be some time yet before share-
holders can expect a return to the
dividend list.
At no stage in the company’s career
since the reconstruction in 1920 has the
setback been so severe. Even in the
blackest days of the early 19305, except
for two small losses, the company was
able to earn profits and pay dividends.
And the reason for last year’s perfor-
mance? As the directors explain, it was
the effects of the November, 1960, credit
squeeze and the difficulties caused by the
very large stocks of imported building
materials which became available in
Australia.
The company was officially formed in
Victoria in 1888 with a paid-up capital of
nearly £BOO,OOO. However, after the
collapse of the land boom in the 1890’s
growth was slow and the capital was
reconstructed in 1920.
Apart from two comparatively small
losses in 1931 and 1932, growth was
gradual and unspectacular until after the
war years. But from 1945 onwards
a series of takeovers and mergers
made the company the largest of
its kind in Australasia, and spread its
interests through all Australian States and
into New Zealand and the Pacific Islands.
At the beginning of the 1960-61 term
the company operated through 22 sub-
sidiaries in Australia, 12 in New Zealand,
evenly split between the two islands, and
one subsidiary in the Solomons. Its
principal activities are in the timber indus-
try importation from the US and Pacific
Islands, milling and seasoning in Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, and the manu-
facture of plywood and boxes. There
are also fairly extensive shipping interests
and the co. imports and distributes steel
products and builders’ hardware.
Growth was not without its problems
for from a record result in 1955 the group
incurred a loss two years later. This
must have acted as a spur to management
for in the next three terms profit again
improved. Dividend was unchanged at
8 p.c. for every year between 1950 and
1960 except for a 10 p.c. in 1956.
In the last five years, the growth of
capital was fairly rapid. Shareholders
participated in three share issues (1955,
1956 and 1960), all at par, and an issue of
convertible notes (in 1958). In addition
the substantial premium on the shares was
used to advantage in a continuation of
expansion through takeovers.
r T~'HE year 1960-61 opened on a very
hopeful note —sales and earnings were
up on the previous corresponding period.
To provide additional funds, shareholders
and holders of the convertible notes were
invited to subscribe £lm. in new shares
in the ratio of one new share for every
four shares or notes held. But, only one
week after trading began in the rights to
the new issue, the credit squeeze was
ushered in. Trading results held up until
the end of February, 1961, for profit
was actually higher than in the previous
corresponding period. But liquidity was a
problem and no interim dividend was
paid.
Then things rapidly got worse. The
depression in the home building industry,
coupled with intense competition caused
by the oversupply of imported materials,
set the company back sharply. Sales
volume was 26 p.c. lower than in the first
half of the year and resulted in a curtail-
ment of production, as stocks built up,
and in some cases temporary closure of
certain of the group’s mills and produc-
tion centres.
The setback in the second half of the
year absorbed all the improvement of
the first half and more, for the year’s
trade ended with a group loss of £353,847,
after allowing for outside shareholders’
interests of £1826. In the previous year
profit was £355,647, equal to 11.7 p.c.
on ordinary capital after preference
charges.
The 5 p.c. dividend, absorbing
£16,255, paid on the preference shares,
came from reserves. The loss for the
year was after cutting depreciation from
£473,289 to £293,464 and tax from
£354,009 to £8527 (indicating that at
least some of the subsidiaries traded
profitably). However, strictly speaking
the two results are not really comparable,
for during the latest term a number of
assets were sold and trading results of
these were only included in the group
figure to the extent of dividends received.
In order to overcome liquidity prob-
lems the group on June 30 sold pretty
well all its interests in New Zealand to
Fletcher Trust and Investment Co. This
brought in just under £2m., paid in cash
in Australia, of which all but £859,545
was received by August 31, 1961. After
the close of the 1960-61 term the re-
mainder of the group’s New Zealand
interests were sold to Fletchers. This
reduced the company’s NZ interests to
investment in debentures which will
provide funds in that country for
the progressive redemption of the
group’s preference shares held there.
Liquidity was also further aided by the


sale of the group’s principal steel sub-
sidiary, J. Sankey Robinson Ltd, for the
net value of its assets.
A EL these sales were the main reason for
x the 21 p.c. reduction in total assets
(from £18,231,579 to £14,394,382). Book
value of properties was down £1,330,498
to £2,824,416. Interest of outside share-
holders was reduced from £1,062,454
to £29,012. The changes in the holdings
of outside shareholders have made it
very difficult to trace the movement in
reserves attributable to Kauri share-
holders and the method of presentation of
the accounts is not much help. At last
balance date assets backing of each 20s.
of pref. capital was £lB 9s. and 255. 4d.
for each 20s. ord. share:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1959 1960 1961
Pref. .. £360,060 £324,500 £289,000
Ord . . 2,470,592 2,880,569 3,980,524
Reserves .. 3,115,241 3,440,754 2,606,095
Outside interests 924,608 1,062,454 29,612
Debentures .. 715,000 715,000 324,600
Mortgages .. 603,598 002,964 603,804
Notes . . . . 2.230,000 2,330,000 2,230,000
Overdraft .. 2,792,667 3,400,537 2,822,578
Sundry creditors 2,325,987 3,330,773 1,568,769
Final divs. .. 123,530 144,028
£15,661,223 £18,231,579 £14,394,382
Properties .. 2,994,104 4,154,914 2,824,416
Plant .. .. 2,334,343 2,692,769 1,815,386
Shares .. 122,453 126,578 65,377
Stocks . . 5,883,136 6,618,415 5,390,903
Debtors .. 2,604,032 3,452,773 3,068,707
Cash, etc. . . 290,825 333,250 16,329
Inter - co. sus-
pense .. 48,874 33,359 393,667
Intangibles .. 1,383,456 819,521 . 819,597
£15,661,223 £18,231,579 £14,394,382
Stocks fell £1,227,512 to £5,390,903.
Plant was down one-third from £2,692,769
to £1,815,386. Book debts at £3,068,707
were down only £384,066 but creditors
were more than halved. Bank overdraft
was cut from £3,400,537 to £2,822,578.
Collection of outstanding debts, des-
pite the more liquid position of the
economy, may still prove a problem
and one wonders if the additional
£87,083 provided last year will be
enough. With competition still fierce in
the industry the stock position needs
to be reduced substantially before the
company is out of its difficulties.
The current outlook is better but any
improvement is likely to be slow.
Although basically the group is still pre-
dominantly tied to the home building
industry, some diversification into allied
fields is going on. One subsidiary has
successfully entered into the supply of
modular housing panels to builders.
Additional drying and machining plant
is being installed in Tasmania.
The 20s. shares were last traded at
9s. sd. each. But even at this price
they must be treated as a long-term
investment. Improvement in the home
building industry could see some lift
in the share prices, but the return to the
dividend list could be delayed for at
least a year.
YATES SEEDS LTD
RECORD PROFIT BRINGS BONUS
its once rather erratic earnings
and dividends history, Yates Seeds
Ltd, Sydney-registered grower and mer-
chant of agricultural seeds, bulbs, and
nursery and garden sundries, seems an
attractive stock. Of course, seasonal con-
ditions may often prove a worry.
The 79-year-old company is well
known to commercial and home gardeners
and agriculturalists. Wholesale and retail
distribution is handled through the main
organisation in Sydney and branches in
Melbourne and Brisbane. Last term
arrangements were made for distribution
of bulk garden seeds, packet seeds and
garden chemicals in Western Australia.
Exports, particularly to the Pacific Islands
and the Far East, add appreciably to the
company’s earnings.
Last term was marked by a satisfactory
demand for all products and three main
divisions of Arthur Yates and Co. Pty
Ltd, the main operating subsidiary,
achieved higher sales and earnings. Trad-
ing activities of Guy Yates Pty Ltd were
transferred to the agricultural seed di-
vision of the parent. Additional drying
plant for dry conditioning of seeds was
completed, providing for more effective
handling of flower seeds and small lots
of vegetable seeds. The original dry
conditioning plant’s capacity was in-
creased. Dry conditioning operations
were also extended by the introduction
of “Fresherpak” pre-dried seed packets
in moisture vapor-proof laminated con-
tainers in Queensland and the Northern
Rivers areas of New South Wales. “The
export possibilities of this pack are being
actively pursued.”
Consolidated net profit for the year
ended February 28, 1962, was a record
at £67,608 (up £18,787 or 42.3 p.c.).
Higher earnings were disclosed after pro-
viding £18,689 for depreciation (up
£4210) and setting aside a massive
for taxation (up £15,342):
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit , : —Dividends ~ serves. serves
£ £ £ £
1959 .. 37,670 10 p.c. = 25,802 11,868 173,785
Capital profit, £978 .. .. .. 174,763
1960 .. 39,166 16 p.c. = 25,802 13,364 188,127
Tax underprovided, £1325 .. .. 186,802
1961 .. 48,821 121 p.c. = 32,252 16,569 203,371
To staff fund. £11,500 .. .. 191,871
Assets revaluation, £51,603 .. .. 243,474
1962 .. 67,608 12-1 p.c. = 32,252 35,356 278,830
This was equivalent to an earning rate
of 26.2 p.c. on the unchanged one-class
paid capital of £258,015 and compares
with 18.9 p.c. in the previous term,
15.2 p.c. in 1960, 14.6 p.c. in 1959 and
25.6 p.c. in 1958. Dividend was steady at
12y p.c. for the second successive year.
Reserves received £35,356 but were
reduced by £11,500 transfer to staff long
service leave provision.
The board decided to “conservatively”
revalue the assets of Arthur Yates and
Co. Ltd, and these were accordingly
written up by £51,603 (land and buildings
rose from £226,485 to £284,149 at
cost and valuation, 1961).
Speaking at the company’s annual
general meeting the chairman, Mr P. B.
Yates, said that “in view of the level of
profitability” at which the group had
operated the directors felt that “share-
holders should share in this revaluation
in the form of a bonus issue.”
This will take the form of a one-for-
five bonus distribution of scrip.
Even more encouraging is the chair-
man’s confidence that the current p.c.
dividend rate will be maintained on the
higher capital after the bonus issue is
completed. The additional dividend pay-
out will involve £6450 and the board
feels that this increase can safely be
covered.
The company’s former trial grounds
at Dundas (near Sydney) and its city
warehouse were sold. An industrial site
for a new warehouse now under con-
struction was purchased at Panania (in
the Bankstown area near Sydney). New
large premises were purchased in Mel-
bourne. The old store at Hawthorn was
sold. A small area adjoining the
company’s store was acquired in Bris-
bane.
Total consolidated reserves at Feb-
ruary 28, 1962, were shown at £278,830:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1960 1961 1962
£ £ £
Paid capital .. .. 258,016 258,015 258.015
Reserves .. .. 188,127 203,371 278,830
Mortgage .. .. 45,106 16,500 15,400
Overdraft .. . . 23,019 10,929 64,668
Creditors . . . . 93,829 72,159 101,504
Sundry provisions, etc. 49,166 49,134 59,.i5S
Tax provision .. .. 38,308 51,256 73,72 S
Final div. .. .. 12,901 19,351 16,126
£708,465 £680,715 £567,529
Freeholds .. .. 225,224 226,485 284,149
Plant 70,539 68,065 91,063
Investments .. .. 1,015 773 823
Stocks .. .. 271,346 204,414 267,781
Book-debts .. .. 146,341 180,978 222,583
Cash, prepayments .. 1,430
£708,465 £680,715 £867,829
Bank overdraft was considerably higher.
Creditors increased. There was a rise
in book debts and stocks.
Net tangible asset backing works out
at £1 12s. Id. for each 20s. ord. share
on the basis of consolidated figures.
Apparently impressed by last year’s
earnings and the bonus issue, sellers last
asked for 58s. for each 20s. and buyers
offered 40s. a unit. The immediate divi-
dend yield on the buyers’ quote basis is
6.25 p.c. on the 124 p.c. rate.


CONSOLIDATED PRESS
GROUP EARNINGS UP
Consolidated Press Holdings Ltd re-
ports group earnings for the Decem-
ber, 1961, half-year at higher levels than
for the previous corresponding period.
The gradual improvement in revenue has
also moved into the current half-year.
Interim dividend of 6i p.c., all taxable, is
in line with the \l\ p.c. annual rate paid
since 1957.
Last year’s payments were made as
interim 6} p.c., including 3f p.c. tax-free,
and final 6 p.c., taxable.
CHEMICALS
BEITH-JORDAN MERGER
Jordan Chemicals Ltd and John
J Beith Holdings Ltd have started talks
which will lead to complete integration.
Six months ago directors made a joint
marketing agreement. They now believe
that respective activities are complemen-
tary rather than competitive, and plan a
new company—Beith Jordan Chemicals
Ltd.
The mechanism of the merger is now
being worked out, aided by the appoint-
ment of Jordan’s chairman, Mr R. W.
Macarthur Onslow, as chairman of Beith.
Initial discussions have accepted that
eight Beith ss. shares be considered equal
to seven Jordan ss. shares. Both com-
panies are on a p.c. dividend rate.
Latest published figures show Jordan’s
asset backing at 4s. Bd. a share and
Beith’s at 4s. 2d. Earning rates have
been fairly close.
HOWARDS LTD
Q'LAND CAN'S BID
JJrisbane motor vehicle and electrical
distributor Howards Ltd seems likely
to reach a state of repose at last. Direc-
tors now feel able to recommend a take-
over bid from Queensland Can Co Ltd,
which offers seven ss. shares for every
four Howards ss. shares, plus 6d. cash
for each Howards share. At current
market prices this is worth 245. lid. a
Howards share and has a value of about
£lim.
Towards the end of April the board
rejected a bid of 17s. 6d. a share from
Industrial Enterprises Ltd, holding com-
pany for the big Toowoomba Foundry
group. They believed this particular offer
did not represent fair value in terms of
assets.
A tug-o’-war has been going on be-
tween directors and a rebel group of
shareholders which actually solicited
takeovers from several companies. Direc-
tors have had to explain that they “always
have been ready to entertain any reason-
able offer.” In the recent hectic climate
a return of capital amounting to 4s. a
share was to be recommended by direc-
tors. The conflict and a firmer offer made
through the board led directors success-
fully to oppose their own resolution at an
extraordinary general meeting.
Howards is quite a rich prize. Realisa-
tion of stock on relinquishment of the
Westinghouse franchise and higher BMC
sales brought a swag of cash for invest-
ment. At March 31, 1962, book value
of investments totalled £791,823 and
indicated a surplus of £101,613 over cost.
MINING
B. H. SOUTH'S TROUBLES
'T'he Broken Hill mining companies
continue to parade their scars. Last
of the current crop of reports comes from
B. H. South Ltd, announcing a dividend
cut for the December, 1961, half-year.
Payment descends to 3d. on the existing
ss. shares, against the previous interim
of 4d. a Is. share before the October,
1961, capital reorganisation. The 1960-
61 final was sd, also on Is. shares.
South made a small working surplus in
the half-year in the face of lower metal
prices and a strike, but overall net profit
has again fallen. In the full 1960-61
year it went back from £986,508 to
£804,474, working revenue having
declined and investment income risen.
Ore treated to December, 1961, was
28 p.c. lower than in the previous corres-
ponding period, and production of both
lead and zinc was held back in line with
international agreements. All the Barrier
companies restored full production last
April.
Meanwhile North 8.H., which earlier
forecast a £417,000 profit drop for its
year ending June 30, 1962, and had to
admit a small mining loss in the Decem-
ber, 1961, half-year, has also lowered
the interim dividend. Payment goes from
sd. to 4d. a 10s. share (7d. a share in
1960-61).
METALS EXPLORATION
JOINT TIN VENTURES
A Jetals Exploration N.L. has taken
a 13y p.c. interest in a group to
investigate and develop various tin fields.
Its partners are Aberfoyle Tin N.L.,
North Australian Uranium Corporation
N.L. and South Alligator N.L. Titles
have already been obtained over some
“attractive prospects.” Metals Explora-
tion also joins South Alligator in a separ-
ate venture to investigate other mining
projects and will manage this particular
enterprise. Metals’ one-for-one issue,
comprising 6700 £5 shares, will help
finance the two undertakings. The issue,
to shareholders at May 2, is payable
£3 10s. on application by May 28. New
shares rank with present issued capital,
also paid to £3 10s.
In a comprehensive interim report
Aberfoyle Holdings suggests that the
operating companies “may well make up
the deficiency in Australian tin produc-
tion within two to three years.” This
programme involves trebling the group’s
current production.
SOUTH ALLIGATOR
NEW JOINT VENTURE
Tt’s not only the uranium giants like
Mary Kathleen that look longingly
towards diversification in the near
future. A rather smaller outfit, South
Alligator Uranium NL, is on the prowl,
a contract with the UK Atomic Energy
Authority already completed.
Mary Kathleen expects to finish its
contract by the end of 1963 and, as
directors say, “beyond this date the
immediate outlook for further sales of
uranium oxide is not a good one.”
A similar fate in view has led South
Alligator to join in partnership with
Metals Exploration NL. The combine
proposes to examine Australian projects
in order to develop mining and treat-
ment operations. First testings are
taking place of the Northern Star copper
prospect at Tennant Creek and a
wolfram-bismuth-molybdenite prospect
at Wolfram Camp (Queensland).
Meanwhile Metals Exploration has
relinquished an option from Mining Cor-
poration (Aust.) NL over sundry mining
tenements near Mount Isa, “to facilitate
their sale to Mount Isa Mines Ltd.” For
this Metals Exploration gains 10,000
Mount Isa shares, worth about £37,000
at current prices.
M.K.U. earned £1,304,507 (up
£234,090 compared with the March, 1961,
quarter) in the three months to March 31,
1962.
The company milled 118,000 short
tons of ore (previously 110,00') to pro-
duce 459,000 lb. (403,000 lb) cf uranium
oxide.
YORK MOTORS
TRADING IMPROVES
"VT’ork Motors (Holdings) Ltd reports
A a gradual improvement in trading.
The chairman, Mr E. C. Webb, told the
annual meeting that profits in the four
months to March 31, 1962, moved well
ahead of the previous corresponding
period, when earnings slipped from
£171,505 to £63,566.
Demand for the British Motor Cor-
poration’s Morris 850 stays ahead of


supply. Big hopes are held out for the
recently introduced Morris Major Elite
and the forthcoming B.M.C. six-cylinder
models.
AUSTRALIAN FACTORS
FUNDS FOR EXPANSION
A ustralian Factors Ltd is planning
further expansion. Close upon
January's one-for-five par issue comes
another issue of ss. shares to shareholders,
this time also at par but on a one-for-
four basis. Directors have also announ-
ced placement of 100,000 shares at a
premium with an English merchant bank.
The latest cash issue will be made to
shareholders at May 17, and involves
515,000 shares, lifting paid capital by
£128,750 to £643,750. New shares are
payable in full by June 15 and rank for
dividend from July 1. The issue has been
underwritten free of charge by Messrs.
Patrick and Co., of Sydney.
The English placement is understood
to be with the Minster Trust. It follows
recent additions to Australian Factors’
board providing for local and overseas
institutional representation.
KELVINATOR AUST. LTD
14.1 p.c. PROFIT DROP
A preliminary report from Kelvinator
Australia Ltd reveals a 14.1 p.c.
profit drop for the year to March 31,
1962. Group earnings slipped from a
peak £350,778 to £301,500. But ordinary
dividend stays at 15 p.c. (the rate since
1954) and, with preference charges, takes
£167,075.
No depreciation is yet disclosed.
Taxation provision was £130,000 low'er
at £220,000. In both 1960 and 1961 it
had been well above the net profit figure.
Earning rate on ordinary capital retreats
from 33.4 to 28.6 p.c. Directors do not
expect the 1961-62 results to approach
those of 1960-61. A sales decline was
still apparent at the start of the current
term.
TINPLATE
B.H.P'S £18m. IMPORT SAVING
A ustralia has become completely self-
sufficient in tinplate, thanks to
B.H.P.’s new electrolytic tinning line at
Port Kembla’s flat products division. The
new line also turns out an exportable
surplus. Present output will run at about
150,000 tons a year, but this can be
readily increased to 230,000 tons.
The plant cost £7.7 million. Together
with the already existing hot dipped tin-
plate works' capacity of 120,000 tons a
year, it enables an annual imports saving
of some £lB million.
“... in the PERSONAL column. The message is: ‘Charlie
come home. All is forgiven. Mabel.'"
To supply the two lines, hot dip and
electrolytic, B.H.P. has installed a new
five-stand cold reduction mill costing
£6 million. Cold steel strip from this mill
will go as well to the narrow cold rolled
products plant recently commissioned at
Port Kembla.
The company first began to make tin-
plate in luly, 1957, to then local needs.
Directors now mention that any delay in
installation of further plant has allowed
advantage to be taken of recent re-
markable technical developments.
Electrolytic technique coats steel strip
with a tin deposit while it is in continuous
strip form. Hot dipped tinplate is first
cut to sheet size before coating in a bath
of molten tin. The new line will hold
about half a mile of strip at any one
time and operates continuously at up to
1000 feet a minute.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON
SALES, EARNINGS RISE
T>ookseller and publisher Angus and
Robertson Ltd is settling down more
firmly after the past year or two of excite-
ment. Directors reported group earnings
at £58,760 for the half-year to December
1961 —an advance of £6159 or 11.7 p.c.
Interim dividend is steady at 74 p.c.
absorbing, with preference charges,
£55,787. Full profit of the 1960-61 year,
£98,129, had not covered total dividend
charges amounting to £103,230.
Group sales to December 31, 1961,
moved 6.4 p.c. above their level in the
previous corresponding period. The rate
of increase slowed during the March
quarter, but here again the absolute level
was still ahead.
Retail sales advanced by 34 p.c. to
December, despite “unfavorable economic
conditions." Books published sold better,
especially educational titles. Improve-
ment was noted in both Sydney and Mel-
bourne printing subsidiaries. Newly
installed machinery should add to possi-
bilities here.
The board is especially engaged in
resolving the management, financial and
property complications which arose from
the wave of takeovers in 1960. Use,
development or disposal of properties in
Sydney and Melbourne are receiving
careful study. Reorganisation of the Lon-
don office has been completed. The
company says it is now selling more books
throughout the UK than ever before.
CYANAMID CO.
RECORD PROFIT IN US
Tmproved earnings of the vast American
1 Cyanamid Co. seem to be outpacing
the generally better trend now visible
throughout the whole US chemical indus-
try. The company is of special Australian
interest, as, apart from a local subsidiary,
it is intimately associated with Drug
Houses of Australia Ltd in the jointly
owned Cyanamid D.H.A. Pty Ltd. The
latter group plans considerable expansion
in Australian manufacture of the famous
“Lederle" pharmaceutical drugs and
antibiotics. Profitable operations have
been forecast by the end of this year.
American Cyanamid achieved record
profits in the first quarter of 1962
$17,226,000 or 81 cents a share, about
41 per cent, ahead of the $12,176,000, or
57 cents a share, earned for the first
quarter of 1961. Sales displayed a 15 per
cent. advance, going up from
$148,183,000 to $170,268,000. Cyanamid
International also hit a new peak.
Cyanamid has become the first manu-
facturer to meet US Public Health Service
standards for manufacture of all three
types of Sabin oral polio vaccines.
As well as pharmaceuticals, the com-
pany's range embraces agricultural, indus-
trial and organic chemicals, acrylic fibres


and formica, pigments, plastics, resins and
surgical products.
Though the A.merican chemical
industry experienced only marginal profit
improvement during the retarded 1961,
an 8 per cent, sales increase has been
estimated for the present year.
LONDON AUST. INVEST. CO.
SHARES ISSUE LIFTS CAPITAL
'T'he recent cash issue by the London
A Australia Investment Co. Ltd has
lifted paid capital by £600,000 to £3
million. It was made on a one-for-four
basis and the 20s. shares were issued at
235. lid.
Directors believe that despite the
recent period of economic stringency,
Australia will be a rapidly expanding
economy over the next few years.
They intend to continue a rather
conservative policy, in respect of both
investment and the distribution of
earnings.
There are many highly speculative—
and perhaps profitable—investments
which would involve a degree of risk
inappropriate to an investment co.
Certain mineral and oil exploration
cos will play a great role in Australia’s
development, but this co. prefers to enjoy
the secondary benefits rather than take
the risk of initial investment.
The co.’s portfolio, which appears in
the books at £2,735,106 on December 31,
1961 (1960 £2,523,869), had a market
value at that date of £3,129,184
(£2,634,608).
The nearest approach to speculation in
the portfolio, as listed in the accounts,
was a holding of 8100 ss. shares in
Wyong Minerals Ltd, the producer of
beach sands. The only other interests in
extractive industries were holdings in
North Broken Hill Ltd, Lake View and
Star Ltd, E. Z. Industries Ltd, and the
Consolidated Zinc Corporation Ltd.
Profit for the 1961 calendar year
increased from £128,534 to £131.283, on
unchanged capital of £2.4 million, giving
an earning rate of 5.4 p.c. Steady div. of
4 p.c. was paid to shareholders, absorb-
ing £96,000.
During the year it was decided that
where part of a holding was sold the net
proceeds were to be deducted from the
cost of the balance of the holding. Where
the total holding has been sold the net
surplus on sales of investments has been
credited to Investment Fluctuation Re-
serve, which stood at £220,020 in Decem-
ber, 1961, compared with £140,634 the
year before.
A share premium reserve of £60,000
and profit and loss appropriation carry-
forward of £75,211 also support issued
capital, making total shareholders’ funds
£2,755,231.
Money loaned out on call was £135,000,
compared with £175,000 in 1961, and
£27,508 was owing to sharebrokers on
uncompleted contracts.
The co. is owned and controlled by the
Anglo-Australian Corporation Pty Ltd.
BOWLING CENTRES
PROFIT RISING
T>owling Centres (Holding) Ltd
earned pre-tax profit at £63,000 for
the three months ended March 31, 1962.
This brought earnings in the first nine
months of the current financial year to
£167,500. The company’s first trading
period, to June 31 last, had yielded a
net profit of £36,334.
Operations are now spread over eight
centres, with three more expected to be
active by the end of June this year.
Directors believe that even these en-
couraging profit figures do not paint an
adequate picture. They point out that
available capital is still not fully em-
ployed.
Negotiations are being concluded to
erect a bowling centre in the new South-
ern Cross Hotel, Bourke Street, Mel-
bourne.
PRODUCTION PLANT LTD
NO INTERIM DIVIDEND
TTandling equipment distributor Pro-
duction Plant Ltd will pass its interim
dividend for the December half-year.
Only a small profit was earned and funds
were required for trading, directors
reported.
The company had to omit dividend in
1960-61, after having paid 10 per cent,
for the previous year.
WHITEFIELD LTD
LIFT IN PROFIT
DThitefield Ltd, Sydney investment
company, has lifted net profit by
£3121 to £30,307 for the year to March
31, 1962. Ordinary dividend remains at
124- per cent, and needs £25,000.
Directors’ preliminary report says that
preference shareholders will be paid 2f
per cent, for a four-month period. This
takes £2667, bringing full dividend re-
quirement to £27,667.
The present result is after tax £550
(previous year, nil) and depreciation £7
(£8).
YOUNGHUSBAND LTD
LOWER EARNINGS, STEADY DIV.
Younghusband Ltd, Melbourne wool
and produce broker, has felt able to
hold its dividend at 74 p.c. (absorbing
£132,000) in the face of another profit
decline. The dividend reached its pre.L
level last year, having been cut bacr,
from 1959 and 1960 payments at 10 per
cent. It is equivalent to 9 per cent, on
capital before the November, 1959, one-
for-five bonus.
Profit for the year to March 31, 1962,
receded by £11,027 to £204,516. The
previous year’s fall w'as £36,102, after a
1959-60 record of £251,645. Earning rate
fell from 12.2 p.c. to 11.1 p.c. The profit
was earned after tax £115,000 (down
£10,000) and depreciation £56,406 (up
£2748).
UNITED URANIUM LTD
NEW EXPLORATION
T Tnited Uranium N.L., plans to push
forward its exploration of non-
uranium areas. With a “somewhat un-
certain" future in view, the company
has been examining “old mining records
of the Northern Territory.” Special
attention is being given to old mines
once worked near the present Moline
treatment plant. Prospecting authorities
were acquired over a possible tinfield 70
miles north of Moline, “virtually un-
prospected,” and some gold-silver-lead-
copper deposits at Grove Hill, 100 miles
south of Darwin and alongside the North
Australian railway.
Directors believe that immediate
uranium reserves allow production of
40 p.c. of the 1963 quota for the United
Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority
contract. Monthly shipments of uranium
oxide to cover the 1962 quota are now
being made. In line with previous years,
40 p.c. of the 1963 quota will be ready
this year and available for shipment in
January, 1963.
The UK contract is valued at slightly
more than £sm. By January, 1963,
deliveries will have totalled £3.5m. Given
new ore discoveries permitting continuous
production, the necessary tonnage
should be produced by 1964 and final
shipment made early in 1965. Under the
contract, deliveries can be made up to
the end of 1966.
Peak profit of £348,536 (up £76,921)
was earned for the year ended December
31, 1961. Unchanged dividend at Is. a
ss. share takes £169,000, bringing pay-
ments to date to £662,000. “It may be
possible to pay another dividend during
the current year.”
The year saw provision of £lOO,OOO
(up £25,000) for depreciation and
£118,913 uranium exploration expendi-
ture on the South Alligator leases. This
latter figure is included in operating
costs totalling £583,733 (down £207,897).
Overdraft dropped from £224,373 to
£10,374. Carry forward was £110,689.
Special tax-exempt reserve received
£350,000.


LEADING
SHARE
PRICES
r> •
Par
Last
Div.
Div.
Earn.
Earn
Sale,
Rate
Yield
Rate
Yield
uompany
Amalgamated Chemicals
Value
6/
1961
14/3
30/4/62
18/7
7/5/62
18/7
p.c.
12}
p.c.
3.4
p.c.
21.4
p.c.
5.8
A.W.A
5/
20/4 J
19/5
21/
14
3.2
22
5.2
Ampol
5/
11/4
12/7
12/6
14
5.6
19
7.6
A.ICC. Ind.
10/
46/3
51/
50/9
15
3.0
29.7
5.8
Associated Pulp
20/
29/3
32/6
32/
13.6
8.5
Aust. Chemicals
10/
30/4}
30/3
2S/6
121
4.4
21.5
7.5
A.C.I.
20/
72/6
70/9
71/6
8}
2.3
19.3
5.4
Aust. Guarantee
5/
14/
12/3
12/3
15
6.1
20.3
8.3
Aust. Gypsum
5/
14/3
15/9
15/9
10
3.2
14.9
4.7
A.P.M.
20/
25/3
26/6
27/2
8
5.9
10
7.3
Bank N.S.W.
£20
£34
£4 0}
£ 42|
9
4.2
12.2
5.7
Bitumen and Oil
5/
24/
24/9
24/9
17}
3.5
32.4
6.5
Blue Meta] Ind.
5/
22/7 }
22/10
22/9
15
3.3
27.6
6.0
Bradford Cotton
5/
7/6
7/6
7/3
10
6.9
11.2
7.7
British Tobacco
20/
25/
21/6
22/
8
7.3
9.7
8.8
B.II.P
20/
69/
63/9
63/
6}
2.0
15.5
4.9
Burns, Philp
C.S.R
20/
91/
£5/2/6
£5|
10
1.7
12.4
2.2
£20 £59/10/
£56
£ 56}
9
3.2
12.4
4.4
C.A.G.A.
5/
11/3
11/3
11/
10
4.5
12.3
5.5
C .I.G. .. ,,
20/
£5
98/
98/
11
2.2
25 2
5 1
Commercial Union
5/
19/3
22/9
23/6
61
1.4
18.4
3.8
Concrete ind.
5/
15/1}
16/
16/
10'
3.1
16 6
5.2
Consolidated Zinc
25/
62/6
65/
63/
15
5.9
11.6
4.6
Cox Bros.
5/
7/6
7/7
7/8
10
6.5
11.8
7.7
Custom Credit ..
5/
13/
12/5
12/4
15
6.1
19.5
7.8
Cyclone ..
10/
26/
22/7}
21/9
10
4.6
17.7
8.1
Dalgety-N.Z. Loan
20/
—
47/6
4 2/9*t
8
4.6
13.9
8.1
David Jones
5/
18/9
18/11
18/8
121
3 3
28.7
Drug Houses
20/
69/
68/6
69/6
111
3.2
17.7
5.1
Dunlop Rubber
20/
35/
42/
40/6
10
4.9
16
7.9
Elder Smith
12/
23/9
25/6
25/3
10
4.8
12.6
5.9
Electronic “B’
10/
13/3
12/10}
12/10
12}
9.7
Email
5/
7/6
7/9
7/11
10
6.4
11
6.9
E.Z Ind.
10/
12/11
14/
13/4
10
7.5
12.4
9.3
Felt and Textiles
5/
6/11
7/9
7/6
10
6.8
13.9
9.2
G. J. Coles
5/
13/6
13/9
13/6
11
4.0
14.8
5 5
Goldsbrough
20/
28/6
32/3
32/3
8
4.9
11.7
7.2
H. C. Sleigh
5/
11/
12/10
12/11
121
4.9
13.4
5.1
Henry Jones
20/
80/
88/
87/6
10
2.3
2S.6
6.1
H. G. Palmer ..
5/
15/6
16/11
17/
12}
3.7
34.5
10.1
Howard Smith ..
20/
54/
51/6
50/3
10
4.0
13.6
5.4
Humes
20/
70/6
76/
76/
14
3.7
24.6
6.5
I.A.C..
5/
13/4
13/5
13/3
i g §
6.3
20.6
7.8
I.C.I.A.N.Z.
20/
38/
41/9
40/6
7
3.4
9.7
4.8
J. Gadsden
10/
15/3
18/10}
19/3
8
4.2
10.4
5.4
Kandos Cement
5/
'
23/
23/3
12}
2.7
13.5
2.9
Kelvinator
5/
18/3
18/9
19/3
15
3.9
28.6
7.4
Lend Lease
5/
20/
21/6
21/9
10
2.3
21.4
4.9
L J. Hooker
. ,
6/
7/
5/3
6/4
1.1*
0.8
Mercantile Credit
5/
8/8
8/8
8/6
10
5.9
16.6
9.8
McPhersons
20/
47/
41/9
41 / 6
8}
4
12.4
5.9
Minster ..
10/
62/
78/
78/6
20
2.6
34.8
4.4
Moulded Products
5/
13/2
14/4}
14/2
14
4.9
7.8
2.7
Mt. Isa Mines
5/
71/6
74/6
75/
25
1.7
62.3
4.2
Mutual Acceptance
5/
8/10
10/3
9/5
15
7.9
22.3
11.8
Myer
5/
29/
33/3
33/3
2.5
28.3
4.3
National Consolidated
5/
27/
27/6
27/6
20
3.6
35.3
6.4
Olympic Industries
5/
7/7
9/
9/2
9
4.9
16.2
8.8
Peters (Vic.)
2/
8/6
8/5
8/1
15
3.7
IS.9
4.3
Petrochemical ..
20/
26/
30/6
29/11
6
4.0
5.9
4.0
R. M. Cont rete
5/
17/4}
18/
18/
12}
3.5
22.9
6.4
Reid Murray ..
5/
5/3
4/3
4/3
—
—
9.4
11.1
Repco .. ..
5/
12/5
13/10
13/6
10
3.7
17.8
6.6
Rio Tinto
5/
15/9
19/3
19/5
10
2.6
71.7
18.4
Rothmans
20/
87/6
75/
78/6
171
4.5
47.7
12.2
Thiess
5/
13/
11/11
12/
12l
5.2
14.4
6.0
Tooth
20/
60/
66/
65/6
13}
4.1
15.9
4.9
Union Carbide ..
20/
80/
78/
78/
10
2.6
15.9
4.1
Waltons
5/
13/8
13/8
13/7
12}
4.6
19.7
7.3
Wool worths
5/
15/4
16/8
16/7
12
3.6
15.4
4.7
Wormald
5/
11/10
12/
12/2
10
4.1
14.2
5.8
W. R. Carpenter
5/
30/
34/
34/6
15
2.2
35.1
6.1
* Estimated on
last half
year’s profit.
t Mid-price.
SYDNEY
STOCK EXCHANGE
INDICES
Banks,
Other
Base
All
etc.
Finance
Pastoral
Retailers
Metals
Ords.*
Industrials
December 22, 1961
.. 137.37
541.02
1S2.31
889 15
604.15
299.07
318.74
April 30, 1962
.. 155.89
565.11
1S9.57
390.68
601.31
304.45
320.61
May 1, 1962
.. 156.45
566.41
187.31
389.51
59S.66
303.77
319.16
May 2, 1962
.. 158.70
563.01
186.92
385.26
598.00
303.39
318.96
May 3, 1962
.. 160.56
561.77
186.86
386.90
596.92
304.24
319.32
May 4, 1962
.. 101.60
562.01
1S6.52
389.78
600.50
304.97
319.77
May 7, 1962
.. 163.85
564.80
187.19
390.48
604.76
305.26
319.64
* Peak
348.46 September 16, 1960
December 22, 1901
MELBOURNE
AVERAGE YIELD
r~ —
STOCK EXCHANGE
ON 100 ORDINARY SHARES
, —50 Other Stocks —Random-^
—50 Leading Stocks Sample
Div. Yield Earn. Yield Div. Yield Earn. Yield
4.49 6.89 5.30 7.46
April
30, 1962
4.27
6.14 5.08
2.77
May
1, 1962
4.28
6.16 5.02
2.59
May
2, 1962
4.30
6.20 6.03
2.54
May
3, 1962
4.30
6.19 5.03
2.46
May
4, 1962
4.29
6.17 6.03
2.36
May
7, 1962
• • • •
4.29
6.14 6.05
2.48
SHAREMARKET SUMMARY
TTHE sharemarkets are still dispensing
A a stiff dose of doubt and investors
prefer to sip their rather tasteless brew
very carefully. A brief flush of enthusiasm
appeared on the Thursday and Friday of
last week. By Monday, however, this
had subsided into the mixture as before.
It is not that dealings fail to be sus-
tained by fairly broad ranges and quite
respectable volumes. These have been
visible for many weeks. Though no one
can call the market really feeble, it seems
to be resisting any genuine guidance.
This, of course, cannot be injected
by the currently fashionable bank issues
when the great body of industrials re-
mains listless and moves only erratically.
Yet banks, and to a lesser extent some
insurance shares, are displaying a gallant
front. Bank of N.S.W. has touched its
highest point in two years, while the
sectional index has advanced about 19
per cent, since the start of the year.
There may be some consolation in an
overall situation which does not need
very much encouragement to shove large
areas of equity investment ahead. Perhaps
the institutions will soon finish their
lengthy honeymoon with bonds and de-
bentures. Or again, there could develop
a keener apprehension of the recovery
suggested by some major economic in-
dicators.
A few hints were given on Monday
by automotives and electricals. The
industrial mass did not bestir itself very
widely, however. And leaders are still
waging an uneven struggle.
While Burns, Philp was able to add a
solid 12s. 6d. to reach £5 15s. last week,
Monday saw it lopped of 2s. 6d. C.S.R.
also shed 10s. of a good gain and B.H.P.
exemplified earlier hesitation. On the
other hand, A.C.I. and British Tobacco
stood up reasonably well.
Rothmans benefited from the better
tobacco atmosphere as well, although it
retreated slightly on Monday.
It must be a relief for many to see
L. J. Hooker giving signs of moving out
of the doldrums. Prices have shot up to
around 6s. 6d., from ss. 4d. early this
month. Directors believe the selling wave
may have stopped and know of fairly
strong support by two Sydney brokers.
Retailers and hire-purchase still find
it difficult to get off the ground. For
quite a period, it has been the major
retail stocks that have been uneasy. David
Jones, Waltons, and Woolworths all
went back fractionally last week.
Oils remain relatively unexciting, par-
ticularly as demand for A.0.G., both
shares and rights, weakens. Base metals,
in spite of sundry profit shocks, have
not been much shaken.


DIVIDEND DECLARATIONS
WEEK ENDED MAY 7, 1962
- Hate to;
Books
" Company
Div. p.c.
Year
Last Year
Close
Payable
Argus and Robertson Ltd., int.
73
• -
73 73
-
31/5/62
Aus-tral.Bakeries.(Hldgs.)- Ltd., int.
3
—
5
14/5/62
31/5/62
Broken Hill Holdings' Ltd.; int. . .
"5-
—‘
Final 10
18/6/62
277/62
Broken ILill South * Ltd.", int. • ..
Clyde Industries Ltd., int., 1st and
3d
—
4d, 5d
18/5/62
22/6/62
2nd pref. . .
21
—
23, 2.)
17/5/62
1/6/62
Clifford Love and Co. Ltd., int.
Consolidated Press Holdings Ltd.,
33
—
33, 43
11/5/62
25/5/62
int.' ord. .'. . .
63"
—
63, 6
—
30/6/62
Consolidated Press Holdings Ltd.,-
X. . "
final pref. . . . .
31
7
33, 33
—
1/7/62
Kelvinator Aust. Ltd., final ord. . .
Kelvinator Aust. Ltd., final part.
10
15-
5, 10
20/0/52
3/7/62
pref. - . . . . ....
Kelvinator Aust. Ltd., filial cum.
3.3
7}
33, 33
20/6/52
3/7/62
pref. • . . ... ..
3
6
3, 3
20/6/52
3/7/62
Lake View and Star Ltd., int.
l/0*tg
—
1/, 1/6
15/5/62
19/6/62
less ,UK tax . .
Life Savers (Aust.) Ltd..,-int. ord.,
73 . ■ -
—
10, 73 -
8/5/62
15/5/62
Life Savers (Aust) Ltd.,- int. pref.
-5
— \
5, 5 -
8/5/62
15/5/62
Malcolm Reid and Co. Ltd., int. ord.
- 5“ • . — •
-—
6J, 63
7/5/62
15/5/62
Malcolm Reid and Co. Ltd., int. pref.
3
.. —
3, 3
7/5/62
15/5/62.
Merchant and Co. Ltd.,-, year ord.
Mary. Kathleen Uranium Ltd., qtr.
10 .•■; '
10
First
25/5/62
' ' • int. . / . . . .
2/- - • •
— /
2/v 2/, 2/, 2/
21/5/62
" 31/5/62
Neon, Signs A'asia Ltd,,* int.
- 61: , -
—-.
61, 6}
17/5/62
31/5/62
Pioneer Welding Holdings, Ltd., int:
5
—
. .5, .5
' 4/5/62
30/5/62
Raynors. Holdings Ltd., , int.
5- •
—
5,-5 .
. 18/5./6 2
1/6/62
Sangara Holdings Ltd., final pref.*
. 6
6
3, —
Swan Brewery Co. Ltd., final
Sydney Importing Co. Ltd., int.
63 - - ■
12-}
.6.1,61
10/5/62
27/6/62
* qtr. pref. . .
U
• : —• *
n, u:
9/5/62
11/5/62
T. J. Dorgan Hldgs. Ltd., int. ord.
4
—
4, 4
11/5/62
25/5/62
Yale Housing Finance Corp. Ltd., int.
Watson and Crane Holdings Ltd.,
5
—
4, 43
17/5/62
18/5/62
int. . . . . . . :.
4
—
5, 3
24/5/62
31/5/62
W. C. Stevens Hldgs. Ltd., int. 5
' * Full payment will be 9
p.c., including
5, 5
3 p.c. arrears.
16/5/62
31/5/62
Company
Year
COMPANY
Net
RESULTS
Deprecia- Earning
Ord.
Shares— N
Par Last Sale Div.
Ended
Profit
«
Tax
£
tion
£
Rale
p.c.
Div.
p.c.
Value
Price
Yield
p.c.
Brick Inds.
.. 31/3/62
220,858
145,703
80,292
32.5
15
5/
26/
3.0
Burns Philp S.S.
.. 31/1/62
149,135*
n/a
78.247*
14.9
10
20/
54/
4.1
Glen Iris Brick
.. 28/2/62
31,434
14,200
37,331
12
10
5/
9/9
5.1
Kelvinator
.. 31/3/62
301,500
220,000
n/a
28.6
15
5/
19/
3.9
Marchant and Co.
.. 31/3/62
60.049
524
6,229
16
10
5/
7/6
6.7
Union Trustee
.. 28/2/62
25,154
22,973
10,236
18.3
121
27/6
48/
6.8
W. J. Crj-er ..
.. 28/2/62
14,054
48
* Fijian
13,628
£.
8.8
5
5
4/11
5.1
WEEKLY AVERAGE CLEAN
WOOL PRICES
Source
Australian Wool
Bureau
Quality
Opening
Closing
Classification
Week
Week
Week
Week
Week
Centres Selling
Bradford
Ended
Ended
1961-62
1960-61
Ended
Standard
4/5/62
Change
6/4/62
7/7/61
30/6/61
5/5/61
4/5/62
Combing —
d.
d.
d.
d.
d.
d.
Brisbane
d.
Melbourne
d.
70’s Good
129
par
129
122*
125*
127
Average
124
—i
125
117
120
122
124
64’s Good
121
—i
122
114*
117*
120
1 29,
Average
116
—2
118
109
112
118
115
1 17
60’s Good
107
—1
108
104
108*
112
107
Average
103
—2
105
101
104
110
102
105
58’s Good
97
par
97
97
101*
103
97
Average
94
par
94
95
98
100
94
56’s Good
92
par
92
95*
97*
98
92
Average
90
par
90
92*
94
95
90
50’s Good
83
par
83
92*
93*
94
_
83
Average
80
par
80
90*
91*
92
80
Carding —
Merino
47
par
47
49
48
55
45
48
Comeback
• .
46
par
46
49
48
54
Fine Crossbred
46
par
46
61*
51
55
47
Medium Crossbred
46
par
46
62*
52
57
_
47
* Nominal.
Sales next
week: Sydney, Geelong.
STOCK OPTIONS
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
Suite 1, Sixth Floor, Temple Court
422 Collins Street, Melbourne
Phone 67-8011
BRANCH OFFICES
SYDNEY: 383 George Street, 29-7865
ADELAIDE: 61 Gawler PL, 7-8407
BRISBANE: 334 Queen Street, 31-1621
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS
ALL OFFICES— “OPTIONS”
Write or Phone for Free Brochure
and Current Price Schedule.
FOR CALL OPTIONS
CALL STOCK OPTIONS
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Delfin House,
16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building,
150 Oueen St., Melbourne,
67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables:
'Rosdale,-” Sydney, Melbourne
or Wollongong.
LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Sixth Floor,
56 Hunter Street, Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Telephone: BW 5721.
Telegrams and Cables:
“LAGRAM,” Sydney.
GILBERT HARRIMAN & CO.
STOCK AND SHAREBROKER
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
KINDERSLEY HOUSE,
7th Floor,
20 O’Connell St.,
33 Bligh St., Sydney
Telegrams:
HARRISHA, SYDNEY.
Tels: 28-83Q8, 28-8399
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your
fancy write to the Manager, who will
quote you a price for the original.
EXCHANGE RATES (T/T)
AUSTRALIA ON
LONDON
£A to £stgloo .. .. .. 125
NEW ZEALAND
£ A to £NZIOO 124
USA
$1 to £AI 2.2515
BELGIUM
Francs to £AI .. .. .. 112.66
FRANCE
New Francs to £AI .. .. 11.075
ITALY
Lire to £AI .. .. .. 1404
JAPAN
Yen to £AI 818.40
WEST GERMANY
DM to £AI 9.043
SWITZERLAND
Francs to £AI .. . . 9 791
HONG KONG
Pence Australian to SHK .. 18 9/16


CONSTABLE & COMPANY
BW 0781
Member of the
SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE
25 O’Connell Street,
SYDNEY
CC2
WANTED TO BUY
FOR CASH
Shares, listed or unlisted,
Forestry Bonds etc.
J. W. GRANT & CO.
549 St. Kilda Road,
Melbourne
Telephone: 51-6243
Est. 1939
All the
family
will love
I
/.
Everybody's
Company Notice
Lake view and star
LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
Interim Dividend No. 94
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that
the Directors have declared an INTERIM
DIVIDEND in respect of the year ending
June 30, 1962, of ONE SHILLING
sterling per share, less United Kingdom
Income Tax at seven shillings and nine-
pence in the £ payable June 19, 1962.
The Transfer Books will be closed
from May 15 to May 17, both days,
inclusive.
The Australian equivalent of the;
Dividend will be calculated at the rate of
Exchange ruling on May 14, 1962. i
Net Dividend payable to non-resident
shareholders entitled to United Kingdom
tax exemption is ELEVEN DECIMAL
POINT SEVEN THREE FOUR FIVE
PENCE sterling per share, which applies
to all exemption authorities received for
Dividend.
For LAKE VIEW AND STAR
LIMITED
R. INCE,
Attorney.
FIMISTON, W.A.
April 27, 1962.
OIL
THE SEARCH GOES ON
HThe Union-Kern-A.O.G. group has
drilled Moonie No. 3 to basement
(6021 ft) without further shows of oil.
The next well in the area is to be on the
adjacent Middle Creek formation, in
which it is hoped to find a continuation
of the Moonie oil-bearing sands and a
stratigraphic trap holding more oil.
Seismic indications are favorable. The
group’s well at Wandoan, some 100 miles
to the north, continues to make progress
towards 5000 ft without as yet encounter-
ing an oil zone.
A/fR P. B. McGrath, the new managing
■*' A director of Wapet, came to Mel-
bourne last week for talks on the com-
pany’s impending drilling programme in
the West. Main drilling hopes for this
year are centred on the Perth Basin,
where 125 miles north of Perth a well,
expected to be drilled to 12,000 ft, is to be
started in August. This will be the second
deep well in the area where last year the
company had shows of oil and gas in a
hole at Eneabba, which was drilled to
about 14,000 ft.
To the far north in the Fitzroy Basin
Wapet also has a big programme for
the rest of 1962. The first well will be
drilled in the Jurgurra section of the
Fitzroy Basin at Babrongan, about 80
miles inland from Broome and to the
immediate south of the rock salt forma-
tion located at Frome Rocks three years
ago. Drilling is expected to start in a
week or two.
After Babrongan Wapet will switch its
attention to the Langoora and Hawkstone
Peak region, not far from Derby. Here
the company had drilled Media No.l and
No. 2 in 1958 in a well-identified lime-
stone formation and recovered traces of
oil. Hawkstone No. 1 is expected to
start early in August and Langoora the
following month. After that the com-
pany expects to search in the Laurel
Downs and Virgin Hills areas adjacent
to Fitzroy Crossing, in remote country
200 or more miles to the east of Derby.
Four drilling rigs will be used by Wapet
in 1962.
/~\il Development has spudded Mount
Salt No. 1 near Mt Gambier. This
well is being drilled to 10,000 ft on a
farm-out arrangement with General
Exploration of Australia, in partnership
with Santos and Beach Petroleum. Oil
Development has also announced it will
drill the first well in the Anglesea district
of the Otway Basin (Victoria), one of the
company’s original areas of interest,
probably starting towards the end of
May.
ONE TO BUY
you interested in a company which
predicts that profits for the full year
to June will be “substantially in excess”
of those for the preceding year? Direc-
tors of Osti Holdings Ltd made this con-
fident forecast within three months of
the end of the current year, when
over £1 million of orders were in hand.
Jextilers and in particular makers
of women’s fashion garments, may have
had a rugged time in the last couple of
years, but this neatly packaged company
seems to have ridden smoothly through
trade difficulties. Osti was incorporated
late in 1959, and reported profits of
£65,477 and £67,050 in 1960 and
1961, after allowing £50,880 and
£51,300 for tax. Other firms in the
textile industry made serious staff re-
trenchments and suffered severe reduc-
tions in earnings during 1960-61, but
Osti avoided both misfortunes. Factories
operated full time during the period.
Beginning with raw nylon and rayon
yarn, the Osti group knits, dyes and
makes up “Osti” lingerie, and distributes
the final product. Osti tidied up its
organisation late in 1960 with the ab-
sorption of the Emstra group of com-
panies, and total acquisition of Newtown
Dyers and Bleachers Pty Ltd.
Management is capable, and alert to
technological and fashion changes. It is
also shrewd in matters of finance, as
illustrated by the December, 1961, take-
over of a loss company, Jones Bros. Pty
Ltd, which will provide substantial tax
benefits over the next three years. The
takeover was financed by the issue at a
premium of 130,000 ss. ordinary shares
to M.L.C. Assurance Co. Ltd.
This was followed in March, 1962, by
the issue of 270,000 shares at 100 p.c.
premium to a number of banks and in-
surance companies. Proceeds were used
to finance additions to the product range.
Issued capital has increased from
£400,000 to £500,000 since last
balance date, but improvement on the
1961 earning rate of 16.8 p.c. seems a
distinct possibility, as the tax liability
should be negligible. The company
would be unlikely to improve on the
current 15 p.c. dividend in the near
future, but its premium placements are
consolidating shareholders’ reserves, to
form a potential source for an eventual
bonus.
The institutional shareholders will be
long-term supporters of the stock, so
that on its three-year . record of per-
formance, individuals buying at around
present levels of 12s. to yield 6.2 p.c.
have every chance of making a reward-
ing investment, income and capital-wise.


HELP
LEGACY
all the year rourid.
Donations: 169 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney. BM2QOI.
Afways ask for
AIN SLIE’S
SCOTCH WHISKY
AGENTS:
Halloran Manton Ply. Ltd.,
Pitt, Son & Badgery Ltd.,
Sydney.
John N. Robertson, Thompson
and Co.
Members of the Stock Exchange o t
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS,
423 Little Collins St.,
Melbourne, C.l.
Telephones: 67 6154, 67 6155
Telegrams and Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
GUMTON. STEEL & HILL
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS.
Members of the Sydney Stock
Exchange.
Kindersley House, 20 O’Connell
Street, Sydney.
Box 1632, G.P.O.
Telephone:
28-2641 (6 lines)
Telegrams:
“Gunot,” Sydney
Telex: S.vd. 242
A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT. A. C. DKA-I'EK.
N. W. C. DRAPER
(.Members o) Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building.
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 P.O. BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your
fancy write to the Manager, who will
quote you a price for the original.
SPECULATOR'S DIARY
Monday, May 7
Alow that I’ve allied myself with Sydney
1 University as a shareholder in the
M.L.C., 1 feel I can return to the more
speculative type of shares. In fact the
last Diary showed just how varied the
life of a speculator can be. A few M.L.C.
and a couple of hundred Mauri Bros,
put alongside some A.O.G. make for a
pretty improbable collection. So this
week I turned to the lower end of the
price scale.
If, as 1 believe, the economy and the
market are both going to improve over
the next year, then there must be some
bargains among the lower-priced shares.
Surely some of these shares are the ones
that are going to produce sharp price
rises over the next twelve months. Some,
at least, of the shares now selling at
about ss. are much more likely to rise
to 7s. 6d. over the next year than are the
quality stocks going to rise by 50 p.c.
Consciously or unconsciously, I have
already been putting this theory into
practice. Hence the presence in my
portfolio of such shares as Beau Monde,
Anderson Meat, Goodwins, Peter Lloyd
and United Motels. United Motels
seemed to be such a good case in point
that last week I bought 600 more at 3s.
9d. bringing my holding up to 1600.
The original 1000 were bought,
rather prematurely as it’s turned
out, last November. The point about
this small and relatively new company
is that three of its five motels are in the
Snowy Mountains area and two, at
least, of them are fully licensed. United
Motels was a real victim of last year’s
credit “squeeze”—oh, how I hate that
word!—and it has only recently been
able to borrow the necessary money to
complete the motels at Wilson’s Valley
and Khancoban. The bars in these motels
should help to slake the thirsts of the
men working on the Snowy scheme while
there should be plenty of tourists and
skiers to fill the beds. Nor is this sort of
business likely to diminish in the next
fe ears as the whole Canberra-Snowy
Mountains region develops into one of
Australia’s major tourist areas. All of
which makes me feel that United Motels
has a good future ahead of it.
Another group of companies that
should do a great deal better over the next
year is the appliance group, both the
manufacturers and the retailers. I’ve
already taken an interest in one of the
appliance retailers, Goodwins, so last
week I took a look at the manufacturers
and ended up buying some Malleys. Here
is a company with quite a good record
but which took a real beating last year and
missed paying a final dividend. However,
business has already improved sufficiently
to enable it to pay a 3 p.c. interim divi-
dend for this year and now the outlook is
decidedly heartening with production of
washing machines, refrigerators and other
appliances rising quite noticeably. So I
bought 200 Malleys at 20s. 3d.
On the usually troublesome question of
cash, I had £475 from the sale of my
remaining 500 Fibre Containers. The
price of 19s. seemed all that Fibres were
likely to be worth for the time being
unless, of course, another takeover bid
eventuates. Altogether I made a profit of
£63 on the 500 Fibres 1 bought in
December before the one-for-one bonus.
A welcome profit but nothing remarkable
when you consider that the outlay was
£BB6.
Last week also seemed as good a time
as any to drop the 100 F. W Williams
bought only in March. The annual report
circulated last week was an elaborate
affair but the profit nothing to get
excited about. I sold at 365. 6d. which
meant I “did” my brokerage, amounting
to £5.
These two sales still left me £lO2 to the
good, and now that I have my scrip for
my ration of 200 Penfolds I will, probably
sell them when they come on the market
this week.
SOLD
500 Fibre Containers at 19/- .. £475
100 F. W. Williams at 36/6 .. £lBO
BOUGHT
600 United Motels at 3/9 .. £llB
200 Malleys at 20/3 .. .. £207
The portfolio now is:
' T Cost Cur-
No. of jSame of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Priee
400 O’Donnell
Griffin 28/8/G1 11/8 16/-
800 Southgate 6/11/61 8/6 7/-
1,600 United Motels 20/11/61 3/9 4/-
1,000 Harris Hold-
ings 5/12/61 7/- 8/6
200 Hunter Douglas
notes 21/2/62 36/- 43/6
200 Beau Monde 8/12/61 25/- S°/-
400 IV. J. Manufac-
turing 24/1/62 11/9 13/-
400 Auto and General
• • ■ Finance 8/2/62 19/9 24/-
500 Mauri Bros 16/2/62 22/9 25/-
1,000 Mid-Eastern
rights 22/2/62 1/-
200 Penfolds Wines 2/3/62'" 9/3
400 Anderson Meat 2/3/62'' 12/- 12/-
400 Kandos 9/3/62 21/- 23/-
500 Peters 15/3/62 8/2 S/-
100 Philip Morris 16/3/62 26/- 24/-
800 Goodwins 21/3/62 5/9 5/9
500 Peter Lloyd 21/3/62 5/6 5/9
500 Ready Mixed 6/4/62'' 17/9 18/-
25 M.L.C. 27/4/62 £l9/10/-£2O/10/-
100 A.O.G. 27/4/62 81/6 76/-
200 Malleys ' 3/5/62 20/3 ' 20/6


Basis Greasy Equivalent
30001b, Clean Weight C.W.C.
Type
78.
f Highest/Lowest Price Paid-
(Pence per lb.)
t Turnover —,
1 Mav 4
Week Ended— N
Week
Closing
4/5/62
r ——To Date —^
Ended
To
Month
Seller
Buyer
High Low
High
Low
4/5/62
Date
May, 1902
114$
1144
115 113$
116$
99$
96
4,958
July, 1962
113
112$
112$ 111$
116$
101
143
5,312
September, 1962 ..
110
109$
1104 1084
116$
103$
108
1,557
October, 1962
1084
108$ ■
109 1074
116$
104
198
4,537
December, 1962 ..
107|
1074
108$ 107
113
103$
149
3.219
January, 1963
107$
1074
108 107$
1124
103$
39
515
March, 1963 ..
107$
1074
108 107$
110$
104
37
904
May, 1963 ..
107$
1074
108$ 107
110
104
66
682
July, 1963 ..
107$ ■
1074
107$ 106$
110
105
54
403
September, 1963 ..
107$
107$
108 106$
109$
106$
11
49
October, 1963 ..
1074
107$
108 106$
1094
106$
66
180
Total Number of Contracts
967
61,611
THE
MAN
ON THE LAND
WOOL MARKETING
REVERSAL ON RESERVE PRICE
YX/hat will the Australian woolgrower-
advocates of a reserve price wool
marketing system do now that their pet
panacea for wool’s ills has been knocked
on the head by the Commonwealth Wool
Inquiry Committee?
Strangely enough the answer appears
to be: nothing.
Yet a year or two ago these same
woolmen were breathing fire. With low
wool prices to give point to their oratory,
they drew thousands of woolgrowers to
meetings in support of a reserve price
scheme.
Their insistent call was for a ballot of
woolgrowers at the earliest possible
moment . . . with dire threats of “politi-
cal action” if their demands were refused.
The Australian Wool and Meat Pro-
ducers’ Federation, as the voice of the
small wool and meat men, backed the
reserve price scheme to the hilt.
Cost-price squeezes, wool promotion,
the synthetic fibre challenge all were
pushed into the background by the
urgency of the reserve price fight.
If a ballot had been held 18 months
ago a resounding victory for the reserve
price advocates would have been certain.
But the Federation allowed itself to be
sidetracked into supporting, with its
arch enemies, the graziers (as represented
by the Australian Woolgrowers’ and
Graziers’ Council) the setting up of the
Commonwealth Wool Inquiry Commit-
tee to examine the whole question of
marketing.
More than a year dragged by. The
fervor in support of a reserve price
scheme began to die . . . and its decline
was in direct proportion to rising wool
prices.
'T'he Committee of Inquiry’s report,
A while not condemning a reserve price
scheme out of hand, said such a scheme
was unlikely to secure for the whole
wool-growing industry, over the years, a
higher price than was obtained at auc-
tion. The committee also pointed to the
risks and financial cost of a reserve price
scheme.
As might have been expected, grazier
interests had little but praise for the
report. More surprising was the mild-
ness of the criticism from organisations
supporting the reserve price scheme.
Recent meetings of State woolgrower
organisations and the half-yearly meeting
of the Wool and Meat Federation have
now made clear the reason for the mild-
ness.
Many of the staunchest advocates of a
reserve price scheme are now afraid of
an immediate ballot of growers on the
issue. They firmly believe that if a vote
were taken at present, the Committee of
Inquiry’s report would be a winning
weapon in the hands of the graziers. And
they point out that defeat in a nation-
wide ballot would kill the reserve price
scheme for a decade or more.
This is why the Federation is being
extremely careful not to say anything
calculated to pressure the Federal Gov-
ernment into holding a grower referen-
dum.
The Government has not, so far, stated
its attitude to the committee’s report.
But in view of the delicate political sit-
uation and the possibility of another
Federal election in which wool marketing
could be a difficult rural issue, it is not
inconceivable that the Government would
welcome handing the decision over to a
grower vote.
This suggestion is strengthened by the
fact that Mr Calwell has said he will Lold
such a referendum if Labor attains the
Treasury benches. (It is one of those
ironies of life that Mr Calwell probably
made this pledge to win small wool-
grower support, but today it is these
same people who do not want his pro-
mise kept.)
At present the feeling that a ballot
would be unwise is strongest in Victoria,
but it is held fairly widely in other States,
too. It plainly exerted a powerful in-
fluence on the deliberations of the Fed-
eration in Melbourne recently. How-
ever, an immediate drive for a reserve
price scheme still has its strong supporters
—including the Western Australian stal-
wart, Eric (“Tangled Skeins”) Hitchins.
Mr Hitchins was scathing on the sub-
ject of the “defeatists,” as one delegate
termed them. Showing a far better grasp
of the psychology of the situation than
most woolmen, he urged the Federation
to place the onus of making a decision
on the Federal Government. He sug-
gested the Federation should ask the
Government to state its attitude to a
reserve price scheme . . . whether it would
support such a scheme with legislation
and finance, and, if so, to what extent.
The weakening of the Federation’s
stand on marketing was also evident in
its attitude to promotion. It had been
suggested that the Federation might cut
back the woolgrower levy for promotion
from 10s. to ss. as a mark of its dis-
approval with the Inquiry Committee’s
attitude on marketing. This would have
been in line with the Federation’s belief
that marketing should come before pro-
motion.
V\7hen the Federation agreed to increase
the levy paid to the Australian Wool
Bureau by ss. a bale (an increase of
£l|m.) last year, it stressed that it was
an interim increase only and would be
reviewed when the report of the Com-
mittee of Inquiry was available. At that
time, Victoria and Western Australia
were against any increase in the levy—
at least until a reserve price plan had
been implemented.
New South Wales and South Australia
supported bureau chairman Sir William
Gunn’s request for the extra ss. and the
bureau got its money on the casting vote
of the Federation’s chairman. (The
other woolgrower body, the Wool-
growers’ and Graziers’ Council, is fully
behind Sir William Gunn’s long-range
SYDNEY GREASY WOOL FUTURES EXCHANGE SUMMARY
WEEK ENDING MAY 4, 1962


(Tons — Carcass Weight)
Beef and
Mutton and
Total
Period
Beef
Yeal
Veal
Mutton
Lamb
Lamb
Pig-meat
Meat
Year: 1957-58
.. 783,084
.58,372
791,456
269,780
151,696
421,476
101,015
1,314,'547
1958-59
.. 849,264
.57,119
906,383
310,381
181,945
492,326
101,886
1,500,595
1959-00
.. 707,482
44,298
751,780
370,427
202,906
573,333
100,594
1,425,'7()7
1960-0-1 (e)
.. 602,835
39.120
641,955
360.513
203,636
564,149
107,476
1,313;580
1960-61 (c) : January
41,359
2,669
44.028
31,327
15,745
47,072
8,211
99,3il
February ..
.. 43,896
2,346
46.242
32.289
14,615
46,904
8,476
101,622
- - — . March-
.. 51,195
2,70.2
53,897
33,892
15,384
13,225
49,276
9,675
112,848
April •
.. 4 8,567
2,788
51.355'
28.116
41,341
S.847
101,543
May
.. - 60,970
3,025
.69,995
30,230
14,056
44,286
9,642
123,923
June .
76,486
3,378
79,864
28.493
14,787
43,280
9,211
132,355
121,841
1961-62 (c) : July
67,077
3,860
70,937
26,909
14.938
41,847
9,057
August
.. 62,687
5,363
68,050
27.872
16.951
44,82.8
9,415
122,2SS
September
.. -57,713
4,821
62,534
30,633
19,845
50,478
10,010
123,022
October ..
53,868
• 3.890
57.758
35,322
24.068
59,390
10,100
127,248
November
56,306
3,400
59,706
36,184
21,910
58,094
10,830
128,630
115,928
December
.. 52,139
2.824
54,963
32,893
18,079
50,972
9,993
January ..
.. 56,481
3,176
59,657
32,735
17,335
50,070
9,098
118,825
February
56,853
2,559 59,412 32,323
(a) Subject to revision.
15,954
48,277
9,463
117,152
(TONS
T> ~ 1
Canned
Period
Beef
Veal
Mutton
Lamb
-Pork
Ham («)
Meat ( b )
Year: 1957-58
123,485
2,410
18,870
28,729
960
258
58,854
1958-59
222,945
4,877
33,326
40,711
835
205
56,719
1959-60
183,850
3,048
32,037
26,460
353
154
47,344 •
1960-61 (c)
132,003
2,010
37,086
28,778
440
168
30,356 '
1960-61 (c) : January
6,089
8,858
93
4,570
4,093
51
14
2,375
February .
213
3,700
1,551
31
10
4,287 :
March ..
11,621
141
4,089
1,072
41
12
2,553
April
6,937
.85
4,468
534
36
4
1,726 -
May
11,384
130
2,649
479
35
14
2,306
June
16,902
165
3,793
434
52
9
2,588
1961-62 (c) : July
15,205
158
2,414
314
37
14
2,969
August ..
18,478
343
2,267
229
33
5
3,397
September
15.490
410
2,763
865
98
17
3,084
October ..
19,245
305
3,012
3,299
182
18
3,410
November
13,594
361
5,434
5,806
96
35
3,477- -
December
14,828
199
4,805
2,512
45
7
2,660
January ..
18,350
133
5,736
1.589
53
2
2,309
February
16,531
196
3,963
717
45
5
2,357
(a) Cured
carcass weight.
(6) Canned
weight.
(c) Subject
to revision.
promotion plan and has not opposed levy
increases.)
At the recent half-yearly Federation
meeting Western Australia and Queens-
land (not present last year) opposed re-
newal of the levy at 10s. and called for
a return to the 1960-61 level of ss. a
bale. This would have meant heavy Wool
Bureau dependence on its reserves and
their eventual exhaustion. In fact, if the
bureau maintained its planned expendi-
ture on a ss. levy it would “go broke”
early in 1964..
But Victoria saved it from this fate by
altering its stand of last year and voting
in favor of continuing the 10s. levy. This
gave the bureau its money for 1962-63
by three States to two.
The decision was most unwelcome to
Western Australia, however, and WA’s
delegate served notice that some growers
in the West were likely to refuse to pay
the levy. He said these men were investi-
gating the authority of the Federal Gov-
ernment to levy them for promotion
against their will. He added that these
growers questioned the right of the
Federation and the Woolgrowers’ and
Graziers' Council to commit all Aus-
tralian growers to a 10s. a bale levy,
rather than just their members. They
were actively seeking a loophole which
would legally permit them to refuse to
pay the levy.
WOOL
EXPANDING MARKET IN CHINA
/"'ommunist China appears certain to
buy a record quantity of Australian
wool this year ... an interesting point in
view of Sir William Gunn’s announce-
ment that he will lead a promotion
mission to Peking later in the year.
Sir William, chairman of the Aus-
tralian Wool Bureau and the three-nation
International Wool Secretariat, _ even
hinted that Australia might help to
develop China’s rapidly expanding wool
manufacturing industries.
Financial help for China—even though
she looks like becoming a major wool
customer —would be a delicate matter
politically. But it is more likely Sir
William was referring to technical aid in
the form of technicians and Australian
wool scientists—men who could help
introduce some of CSIRO’s - wool pro-
cesses in China. Chinese wool technicians
might even come here for training as
other Asians do already.
Australia cannot afford to ignore Com-
munist China as a potential wool market.
She has, as Sir William said, “tremen-
dous potential.”
China’s purchases of Australian wool
reached their peak in 1959-60 when she
bought a record £13,469,000 worth. This
was made up chiefly of £3,282,000 worth
of greasy wool, £4,288,000 of scoured
wool and £4,119.000 of tops. These
purchases made her our best customer
for tops and our seventh best wool
customer overall.
Last year, hit by droughts and floods,
China was more concerned with feeding
her millions than clothing them, but
the growth in her purchases of
Australian wool so far this year has been
impressive. It would appear she has
succeeded in overcoming the foreign
exchange problems.
In the first seven months of the 1961-62
wool export season China bought
£9,146,000 of our wool. The comparison
of the quantities for the seven-month
period with the corresponding period
last year stresses the jump:
Greasy wool —16,191.0001 b. (1960-61,
6,247,0001 b.). Scoured -5,234,0001 b.
(1,733,0001 b.). Tops —4,305,0001 b.
(1,019,0001 b.).
China’s wool imports have risen
rapidly in the last few years with the
development of her rapidly expanding
textile industry. If exchange and political
problems do not intervene, her imports
should increase even further in the next
few years.
MEAT PRODUCTION STATISTICS
VTeat production in Australia during
February, 1962, amounted to 117,152
tons, a reduction of 1700 tons (1.4 p.c.)
on the figure for January, but it was
15,530 tons (15.3 p.c.) higher than in
February, 1961.
Slaughterings of cattle, sheep, and pigs
were higher in February, 1962, than in
the previous month, while those of
calves and lambs were lower. But the
slaughterings of all live stock, except
sheep (down 2 p..c.). were at a higher
level in February, 1962, than in February.
1961.
In the eight months to February 1962,
Queensland slaughtered 750,000 cattle for
164,385 tons of beef. This was an in-
crease of 140.200 cattle and 33,494 tons
of beef on the corresponding period of
1961. NSW slaughtered 648,200 cattle
(up 174,100) for 131,365 tons of beef
(up 35,791 tons).
Victoria slaughtered 5,157,900 sheep
in the eight months to February, 1962
(NSW 3,969,900), for 106,665 tons of
mutton (NSW 72,668 tons). While in
Victoria slaughterings rose by 773,100
and mutton production by 15,322 tons,
the figures for NSW were practically
unchanged. The lamb figures for both
States remained fairly static.
The amount of canned meat produced
in Australia during the eight months was
37,215 tons (canned weight), of which
Victoria produced 18,667 tons (up 1426
tons), and Queensland 11,892 tons (up
3998 tons). NSW produced 5599 tons
(up 1379 tons).
PRODUCTION OF MEAT IN AUSTRALIA
EXPORTS OF FRESH AND FROZEN AND PROCESSED MEATS


REVIEWS
TELEVISION
FEED HIM TO THE CROCODILES
Tf you were somewhere near the centre
A of Australia last week, or on the
northern coastline, you may have missed
Victor Borge on television. His sponsors
made sure that few others could miss
him, by running the show on every
available channel. Taking into account
the <£lo,ooo reputedly paid to Mr
Borge, the cost of Esso’s nation-wide
message must have been skyhigh but I
have no doubt that it was worth every
penny.
Not that I thought the 70 minutes
with Victor Borge were well spent, or
that he was as funny as a circus. But
there were loud shrieks, whoops and
guffaws from my neighbors as I stared
soberly at the screen while Mr Borge
remarked that he had come from Den-
mark aboriginally, and that he doesn’t
write very fast because he spells very
slowly.
While trying to prove that 90 per
cent, of Mr Borge’s viewers laugh too
easily at trifling material, I will need
to mention some of the things I consider
funny or, rather, some of the people.
As these include Laurel and Hardy,
Shelley Berman, the Marx Bros., their
alter ego S. J. Perelman, George Wallace
Jnr. at his rare best, Jackie Clancy some-
times, Noel Coward, Bill Harney, Dobie
Gillis, John Bluthal, Nichols and May
. . . well, I thought I had a fairly
catholic taste in humor and, indeed, was
much too easily pleased in that line.
Victor Borge pattered for a solid 30
minutes before touching a piano key
in earnest. He spent at least ten of
those minutes trying to make a micro-
phone stay at the required height. It
kept slipping, he lifted it, it slipped again.
I groaned. Such an old routine. Uneasily,
at one stage, he remarked, “I could make
a whole show with this mike.” Every-
one laughed, except me.
I found three funny moments in the
whole show. These were all visual bits.
Producing an eye-dropper, Mr Borge
remarked that one drop of Esso could
start an engine. He squeezed, a drop fell,
and the piano revved up and roared
away. During his mike jiggling, he re-
marked once, pumping it up and down,
“If we go on like this, we might strike
oil.” And finally, when someone’s arm
and hand appeared to give him a prop,
he said, “That’s what we call a stage
hand.”
Victor Borge, at the piano, was funnier
than Borge rampant. Playing one piece,
his right hand ran off the treble into thin
air, which he corrected by moving the
piano to the right. Similar trouble on
another occasion was corrected by tear-
ing off a strip of the music. I’m afraid
my enjoyment of these bits was entirely
spoiled by the shrieks of the studio
audience, said to be composed of “stars
and station executives.” Never again
should these gentry criticise the behavior
of teenagers when Fabian or some such
boy arrives at Mascot.
However, this could have been the
result of over-warming the audience be-
fore the show began. There were shrieks
from this invisible mob from the first
moment Borge appeared on the screen.
My neighbors evidently were swept right
into the spirit of the show, but I never
did catch up, and it is distressing to be
only willing to smile when an unseen
crowd is laughing, or laugh when they
are rolling in the aisles.
In contrast, the sponsor earned full
marks for nice commercial presenta-
tion, taking only a fraction of the time
allowed, getting the message across suc-
cinctly, and otherwise keeping out of
the way. After all, everyone knew Esso
was presenting the show . . . but few
other sponsors would have been con-
tent to let it go at that.
I realise that I will have convinced
no one south of Darwin that Mr Borge
was not very funny. But frankly I would
like Victor to stand in the bar of the
old Victoria Hotel and say, aloud, “You
know, the sneeze song ... I Took One
Look Atchoo.” They’d feed him to the
crocodiles.
FRANK ROBERTS
MUSIC
PERIOD PIECE
Ariadne on Naxos. Strauss. Palais.
Melbourne.
T do not believe that it is possible, in
1962, to maintain reasonably that
Strauss’s achievement was of first-rate
importance. He took too much and gave
too little. Not only the craft but even
the spirit of his music was contained in
what preceded and what surrounded
him. He developed and renewed ideas
that are in Berlioz and Liszt, Wagner
and Tchaikovsky ; he added his voice
but it was in a kind of declining threnody
to the notion of a musical Vienna
that had been formed by Schubert,
Bethoven, and his own namesakes of the
waltz family. And it is characteristic of
him that his developments of these ideas
were all made in terms of degree and
not of kind. Even his realism, which
shocked and alarmed opera managers
from Germany to New York, was of an
essentially romantic cast; it had no
common note with the realism of the
expressionists, who more truly reflected
the feeling of poetry and painting in
twentieth-century Germany.
But Strauss’s sensitivity to the Vienna
which had produced him, to the things
which were past rather than present or
avant-garde, makes of his music a very
powerful and nostalgic evocation of the
years when he was lionised, and of the
basis on which those years rested. This
is, for us, the really pertinent thing
about the Elizabethan Trust’s staging of
“Ariadne on Naxos,” one of the highest
points of Strauss’s work. As a “modernis-
tic” or germinal conception it can mean
little; too many kings have died and
been crowned since then. But as a
period piece it has an almost unrivalled
attractiveness, for it is neither too pro-
vocative nor too obviously an exercise
in archaic revival.
The Trust’s performance in Melbourne


was thoroughly successful. To choose to
play such an opera in Australia is in
itself a thing full of merit, but credit
is due for much more than this. With-
out significant exception, the singers
handled the irrepressible “cantilena” of
the music, and its difficult ensemble, with-
out any stilting of their stage movement.
Their poise, their sureness of movement,
and their grace were all uniformly de-
lightful, in an opera where any slackening
would have been disastrous.
Not one of the singers in the cast I
heard —not even Una Hale whose voice
and presence were both amply impressive
—gave a virtuoso performance. No one
transfixed his role so as to hold it in the
memory: there was no electrifying
experience. There were even moments
of longueur after the appearance of
Anthony Fenech, whose Bacchus took
the eye rather than the ear and who
had to sing, in any case, perhaps the
most dangerous and difficult part in
the opera, since his winning of Ariadne
is much under the shadow of other more
famous operatic lovers. But the company
worked as a unit with the smoothest
efficiency, meeting at every other point,
save audibility of text, the demands of
the score. Georg Tintner’s conducting
was the best evening’s work he has ever
given us in the opera house.
KENNETH HINCE
THEATRE
NOT EQUAL TO THE TASK
Saint Joan. G. B. Shaw. Palace
Theatre. Elizabethan Theatre Trust.
Sydney.
shows an artist up more cruelly
than an attempt at a really big sub-
ject. The try at grandeur reveals all the
weaknesses of sensibility, the shortcom-
ings in taste and style, the vulgarities
in thinking and speech. Shaw had many
tilts at the grand manner and the big
theme, and his most serious effort, by
most consents, was his “Saint Joan.” The
current production by Professor Norman
Philbrick for the Elizabethan Theatre
Trust gives us a rare chance to weigh up
the Shaw achievement.
Not that the weighing-up takes long—
the play makes it very clear, very quickly,
that the playwright is simply not equal
to his task. The justification for using
stories and figures of legend or history
comes if the artist adorns his theme; if
he puts fresh flowers on the gave ; if
he uses the myth to point something of
value for his own time.
Shaw’s “Saint Joan” does not satisfy
any of these reasonable requirements—
the play is evasive in all manner of puck-
ish ways, and it pours contempt on its
own modest levels by one of the silliest
epilogues in all drama. Nowhere does
Shaw show us even a hint at the sources
of Joan’s power ; nowhere does he con-
vince us that his Joan is a consistent and
discrete personality.
There are times, admitted, when the
Shaw Joan soars into lofty speeches,
but how little can these high-flying words
be reconciled with the Joan that has gone
before! Even at their best, the Shaw-
Joan words are grandiose, not grand;
even at her most sincere, Joan does not
command our belief. She remains flat, a
cardboard replica.
Perhaps, after all, what Shaw intended
was merely an intellectual spoof of saint-
hood, and not a serious attempt to light
up the strange world of Jehanne la
Pucelle? Even if this heretic view were
right, it still entitles the play to no better
consideration, for as a spoof it falls flat,
too.
Had it not been for the acting of three
male principals Alexander Archdale
(at last an actor who knows that an
entire body can be highly expressive), Ric
Hutton and Brian James, the whole even-
ing at the Palace could have been a bore.
These three splendidly-contrived and
forceful characterisations caineu, some-
how, the entire night along with them.
As for Miss Zoe Caldwell’s playing of
Saint Joan, it was wayward to a fault,
and naughty to a degree. With an affec-
ted hoyden voice of some countryside,
Miss Caldwell bumpkined from heigh-
tened speech to speech . . . whenever the
landmark of an important speech was
reached, bang went all the careful work
on dialects and out came the full
diapason of rounded sounds and cultured
periods.
She got effects by means more typical
of an outback amateur than a truly pro-
fessional player. A pro. should under-
stand the true meaning of theatrical style,
and certainly have enough command of
the acting craft to stay in character all
evening.
Miss Caldwell’s voice, by the way,
carries the quality of a ghost-voice ; there
is already settling around it the husk and
squeak of the (God preserve us from it)
English comedy voice, with its cute
hoarseness and upward kicks and breaks.
Miss Caldwell seems to breathe entirely
with enormous upper chest movement,
like the misguided methods of old-
fashioned PT of my schooldays. It’s a
sort of breathing I thought had died for
ever and unsung. Despite all the plaudits
for this Australian player, she clearly still
needs a good teacher—with whose aid
she may yet realise some of the sincerity
and conviction about theatre that cer-
tainly is hers.
KEVON KEMP
CATCHING THEM YOUNG
Catholic Schools’ Drama Festival.
Assembly Flail. Perth.
Tnterest in the theatre in Perth has
always been strong and there has
for many years been considerable con-
sistent support for the local product,
sometimes at the expense of overseas or
interstate importations. Each year more
than thirty locally produced plays and
musicals are given an airing in the city
and many more are presented by surbur-
ban amateur groups. The emphasis has
always been on one-set “good box-office”
plays and the vague discontent which
crept over devotees at first found
expression in moves to larger and better
premises with more elaborate equip-
ment and facilities.
But bigger and better theatres don’t
necessarily draw bigger and better audi-
ences. Perth theatregoers will still flock
to see “sparkling” comedies and
“macabre” or “suspenseful” mysteries,
but plays of ideas or dramas about human
conflict are poorly patronised. It is
significant that Patch, one of the older
well-entrenched amateur groups, cele-
brated the opening of new premises at
the beginning of this year with a highly
successful production of “Born Yester-
day” which has been shown in Perth in
the filmed version and twice in earlier
stage productions.
Last year the National Theatre Inc.
began the Junior Theatre Club and the
Therry Society inaugurated the Western
Australian Catholic Schools’ Drama
Festival. Both are attempts by different
means to make tomorrow's audiences
more discriminating, critical and informed
than today’s. The Junior Theatre Club
is the brain-child of Raymond Westwell,
the resident producer at the Playhouse,
and offers special performances of current
productions for senior students with dis-
cussions and demonstrations afterward.
Last year there were 579 members from
a total of eleven schools. Before the 1962
season started these numbers doubled.
The Therry Society, which also believes
in “catching them young”, sponsored for
the second year the Catholic Schools’
Drama Festival and entries from twenty-
two schools (including eight boys’
colleges) were double those of last year.
I saw the best four plays of the Festival


and it was impossible not to be impressed
by the enthusiasm and good intentions
of the participants, and their complete
innocence of the theatre as an art form
or even as a medium of entertainment.
So far, so good, but what is now needed
is less emphasis on numbers and more on
standards. I question the wisdom of
encouraging (for instance) the entry of
student-produced excerpts from “Corio-
lanus” which were not only totally beyond
the students’ range as executants but were
also obviously beyond their comprehen-
sion emotionally.
Active participation is an effective but
dangerous way to promote interest in
the theatre and some of the more obvious
pitfalls can be overcome by giving the
completely uninitiated some expert assis-
tance. No student can learn from his
mistakes unless he at first recognises
them. Standards will rise when students
are encouraged to perform plays within
their scope and under producers who have
at least a basic knowledge of elementary
stage technique. There is no special virtue
in doing good plays badly.
MARY LORD
GOOD BUT NOT GOODY-GOODY
The Good Woman of Setzuan. Bertolt
Brecht. Adelaide University Union
Hall.
'T'he Adelaide University Theatre Guild
-*■ and producer John Tasker, the team
that gave the first production of “The
Ham Funeral” and are also to give the
world premiere of Patrick White’s
“Season at Sarsaparilla” in September,
deserve more than local credit for their
“Good Woman of Setzuan.” This diffi-
cult but very moving play demands a
strong controlling hand from the pro-
ducer and a performance of sustained
excellence from the actress playing Shen
Te; it got both. Barbara West’s Good
Woman was appealing without being sen-
timental, authoritative without being
schoolmarmy. The play deals with the
difficulty of being good, but the actress
has to deal with the difficulty of not
being goody-goody. Brecht gave Shen Te
both sex and sense and Barbara West
didn’t drop the bundle. She was assisted
by the strong performance of Yang Sin,
the unemployed pilot, who rose to a
superb frenzy in his “Song of Saint
Nevernever Day.” Roger Taylor’s Wang
and Ann Christie’s Mrs Shin were
notably consistent in quality.
As for the play itself, it still wears
well, despite its period-piece enthusiasms,
such as the rapturous addresses to the
airmail pilot which are closer to W. H.
Auden’s Link Trainer than to St
Exupery’s genuine airborne aircraft.
Likewise, the choice offered the audience
at the end of the play seems all too easy
now: “Change human nature or the
world? Well: which?” Alas, one is
inextricably entangled with the other, and
the political solutions of the thirties are
too pat for the sixties. But in this play
Brecht’s humanity was greater than his
doctrine.
Peter Butler’s music was brilliant, a
melange of Kurt Weill and Gilbert and
Sullivan that really came off in song and
orchestration, the latter particularly
taking the whalebone out of the stays of
the opening God Save the Queen. John
Tasker’s set design was elegant but the
blinds were a bit too fussy and the
intermediate pauses too dark and too
long.
GEOFFREY DUTTON
ART
LAND SEER
Robert Hughes. Bonython Gallery.
Adelaide.
Tt is in his landscapes that Robert
Hughes’ originality shines. Lumps of
hills stand as space-occupying lesions in
the path of sunlight. A convincing new
look is given to the ugly familiarity of
the planet we are all stuck with, assuring
us once more that we shall be lucky to
get out of it alive. Hughes is a forceful
contemporary artist as he peers at the
ultimate dark contrasts and affinities
on the gross threatening face of our
earth, and delineates them with scruffy
brush strokes.
Apart from landscapes, Hughes offers
scarecrow, owl, and bull, from the queer
farmyards whose denizens make messy
mixed marriages in the studios of an in-
creasing number of both promising and
successful Australian painters. This
toying with beasts makes one wonder
whether we may not be on the verge of
a Zoological Movement. There is the
Augean stable in the unconscious where
the animal archetypes are quartered, and
perhaps it is time it was finally explored
and cleaned up with the help of visual
allusions to myths and nursery rhymes.
In Hughes’ case it would be only a
diversion for him to join such goings-on,
for his highlands are more fundamental
painting than his cattle. Every one of the
landscapes makes a good picture, with-
out any one of them standing out as
a superb definitive work. Perhaps this will
come when the remaining bulls in him
shall have transmogrified themselves into
mountains.
EARLE HACKETT
FILMS
A TEAR IN
DOBELL'S EYE
William Dobell. Ampol Theare.
William Dobell. Qan t a s House
Theatrette. Sydney.
TJ on Horner, cameraman of the Qantas
treatment, has achieved some quite
outstanding effects, as when he tracks us
along the lake setting of Dobell’s home,
through his garden, then up and into an
upstairs room where the artist is at work.
If you know anything of the difficulties
of light balance you will realise that this
one sequence is worth a prize. More-
over, Mr Horner has sensitivity as well as
technical brilliance, as we see when we
close up, full face on Dobell, concen-
trated upon his work, forgetful of the
cigarette dangling in his mouth. We
watch, painfully the tear in one eye,
and are immediately identified with the
painter.
But the film is not only a triumph
for the cameraman; there is the well-
chosen commentary on Dobell’s life.
The film’s makers, Messrs Codings
Productions of Sydney, have taken
trouble to gather specimens of work from
the many periods. Each period is marked
with its own style but through all runs
the common denominator of Dobell’s
pre-occupation with character. He is
heard protesting that he has never really
wished to be a portrait painter but one
telling quotation from Dame Mary Gil-
more establishes his position in this
respect. She says, with effective absence
of emotion, that when she first looked
at the study Dobell had made of her she
saw her father’s eyes gazing out of it.
The Boris Cook film is not so con-
cerned to tell Dobell’s story as to depict
the setting in which he works; it is not
so concerned with the beauty of Dobell’s
paintings as with the sources of their
beauty. Mr Cook’s camera dwells
lovingly on the lake vistas of Dobell’s
home, so lovingly in fact that one feels
he hates to leave them and no wonder,
as the shots are especially beautiful and
dreamily romantic. We meet Dobell's pub
companions, we are brought to under-
stand a little more of where his apparently
caricatured faces come from, and we
share the artist’s blissful enjoyment of
deep sleep. The worth of this film lies in
the way another artist depicts Dobell’s
surroundings.
Mr Cook’s film cries out for a com-
mentary; without it, the lyrical, poetic
study seems rather incomplete.
DAVID CALLAN


While you are
in Europe
visit the
POZNAN
INTERNATIONAL FAIR
JUNE 70-24, 7962
The world’s achievements in industry, techniques
and science displayed and demonstrated by over 55
countries.
The Best Meeting Place In The World For East-West Trade Transactions
All information can be In this expansive review of world progress, the
obtained immediately from : organisation of the POZNAN INTERNATIONAL
COMMERCIAL DIVISION FAIR presents congenial opportunities for personal
Polish Consulate General, contacts between businessmen from all countries, in
62 Drumalbyn Road, every field of commercial enterprise.
Bellevue Hill, Sydney. 36-2005 ,
Cables : “polhan,” Sydney. Visas obtainable in Sydney at short notice.
THE RED PAGE
THAT CERTAIN BOOK
SHELLEY UNBOUND
By JAMES Me ALLEY
T read Shelley, in the early days of my
awakening to poetry, with rapt appre-
ciation. My attitude to him has fluctu-
ated in the intervening years, but I have
never turned away in condemnation, and
recent re-readings have confirmed me in
my first liking. He has limitations and
weaknesses, even in the major work which
he crowded into his last years (1818-
1822). Remember he died at 30, with his
powers still only beginning to develop
(for his w'as a late-developing rather than
a precocious talent). But critical reserva-
tions should begin only after his great-
ness has been acknowledged.
Shelley has been roughly and badly
handled by some recent critics. T. S.
Eliot at one time pronounced him “un-
readable.” But later he seems to have
read him again and considerably relented.
In “Little Gidding,” Shelley is one aspect,
together with Dante, of that compound
poet with whom he holds colloquy at
dawn.
No relenting, however, from Dr Leavis,
so far as one has heard, nor amends nor
restitution for wrong done. Leavis’s
essay, which did a great deal to confirm
current hostility, is a frightening example
of the blunders that can be committed
when “the powers of dislike” are exer-
cised in disregard of scholarship, i.e.,
without reasonable diligence in ascer-
taining the meaning of texts, or care for
such relevant facts as the date of a poem,
and whether the author published it or
not, and what his own judgment of it
was, if recorded.
Leavis demonstrably and disastrously
misread Shelley, and charged him with
writing poetry with the intellect switched
off. He concluded that Shelley was a
self-indulgent emotionalist, to whose
work terms like “corrupt,” “vicious”
and “sinister” were appropriate. His dic-
tion Leavis attacked as “erotic,” in its
“tender, caressing, voluptuous effects.”
Why “erotic” is bad was not quite said.
The whole thing sounds like an old-
fashioned denunciation of the debilitating
effects of a nasty, unmentionable habit.
Since the primary one of these accu-
sations Shelley’s intellectual deficiency
—recoils on the critic’s own head, it is
not necessary to refute the rest in detail,
though one could. Shelley is not, in his
major poems, a vapid emotionalist; he
is a poet whose intellectual operations
are intense and subtle.
The sort of lingering harm done by
Leavis’s coarse and bullying attack may
be illustrated by the lapse of judgment
and scholarship his authority seems to
have induced in a later critic, Donald
Davie. Though Davie wants to salvage
parts of Shelley, he uses Dr Leavis's in-
fallible worm-killing compound on other
parts, even to the tell-tale ter “vicious”
and “erotic.” Like Leavis, he chooses for
his demonstration a minor poem not pub-
lished by Shelley: in this case “The
Brrdal .Song.” In one version, Shelley
wrote of the nuptial night:
O joy! O fear! What will be done
In the absence of the sun!
This sentiment, says Davie, is “manly
and wholesome.” But Shelley is con-
victed of showing his vicious, erotic sen-
sibility, because in another version he
wrote:
O joy! O fear! there is not one
Of us can guess what may be done
In the absence of the sun . . .
This, says Davie judiciously, “is just not
true.” What he does not say is that the
lines in this version are given to a chorus
of girls ; and the rest of the poem shows
quite plainly that what is in question is
not ignorance of “the facts of life' 3 but
lack of knowledge-by-experience. The
girls’ virginal inexperience may not be
“manly,” but it seems “wholesome”
enough, at least to a pre-‘Lolita’ sensibility
like mine.
Dr Leavis’s final charge against Shelley
is that he stands in “The Spenserian-
Miltonic” line. Those not aware of the
progress of criticism might think a com-
pliment must be intended. Oh dear me,
no: Shelley is being banished into the
outer darkness with the arch-perverters
of the true tradition of English poetry.
Now, Spenser is one of my masters. So
he has been for an astonishingly wide
variety of poets, great and small. The list
includes Drayton, Milton, Dryden, Cow-
ley, Pope, Blake, Shelley, Keats, Words-
worth and Yeats. Shakespeare's debt to
Spenser also seems not inconsiderable.
Those who are thus woven together I do
not seek to tear asunder.
In its more particular sense, the
Spenser-Milton line stands for several
characteristics which have not been popu-
lar recently. It is the heroic tradition.
And since the celebration of heroic virtues
and actions presupposes doctrine and
duty, clearly affirmed, it is also the main
intellectualist tradition. A poetry th t is
thus heroic and intellectualist does not
necessarily lack tension, irony, ambiguity
and concrete particularity (the familiar
modern demands), but these things occur
in a different way. Certainly, they do not
occur in an anti-heroic and anti-intellec-
tualist w'ay.
Spenser is also a fountainhead of the


mythopoeic tradition in English poetry,
from his time to ours: he carries for-
ward from earlier sources the capacity for
intellectual “vision,” the ability to grasp
and express metaphysical realities in and
through “myth.” This is what Milton
revered in Spenser. And from Milton the
mythopoeic line comes down to Blake
and Shelley and Yeats. Those who want
to extricate Blake and Yeats from this
bad company have to break a lot of links.
A full defence of Shelley would con-
centrate above all on “Prometheus
Unbound,” beginning with a reception of
its intellectual vision, and proceeding to
examine in detail its organisation and its
use of language —in the light of that
vision. It would, I think, be shown that
Shelley’s mythopoeic activity was au-
thentic for the most part, though it falters
where the myth is not allowed to run
“true to form” but suffers artistically by
interferences from his secular-utopian
opinions. The poetic enactment of the
vision of a fallen human state, of the
virtues proper to recovery of innocence,
of the final transfiguration of man and
the cosmos, justifies C. S. Lewis’s judg-
ment of Shelley as a poet who must rank
high if judged by truly classical standards.
But since “Prometheus Unbound” is
too large a critical task for this occasion,
I shall seize the chance of defending one
of Shelley’s well-known shorter poems,
the ode “To A Skylark” which has been
badly mauled. Leavis says (I abbreviate
slightly): “It is, or should be, plain that
the poem is a mere tumbled out spate of
poeticalities, the place of each one of
which Shelley could have filled with
another without making any essential
difference. They are held together by the
pervasive ‘lyrical emotion’...”
On the contrary, the ode has an organ-
ised fourfold structure ; its theme illumin-
ates the central problem of romantic and
symbolist poetry ; its images function in
the traditional way to “amplify” or in-
tensify the statement of the theme.
The skylark is seen as a tiny piece of
the cosmos which is a sign or symbol of
transcendent Spirit. (If you won’t toler-
ate that, throw out Wordsworth’s sky-
lark, too, and Blake’s trilling lark in
“Milton,” and a good deal else.) The
This is another contribution to the
series in which writers take a
second look at the books which
have made an impact on them in
their early years. So far Ross
Campbell, Donald Horne, Max
Harris, Kylie Tennant, Hal Porter
and Gavin Casey have contributed.
Other contributors will be A. D.
Hope, Kenneth Slessor, David Mc-
Nicoll, Sydney Deamer, Peter
Hastings, Peter Coleman, Alexan-
der MacDonald, Harry Messel, W.
C. Wentworth and Alan Reid.
poet makes the metaphoric leap of virtu-
ally identifying the sign and what it
signifies, the bird and the Spirit. For the
bird comes so near to the characteristic
spontaneity and immediacy of pure spirit
in its “profuse strains of unpremeditated
art.” It is a blunder to take this (as the
writer of the Shelley chapter in the Peli-
can Guide to English Literature predict-
ably did) as stating Shelley’s conception
of human poetry. On the contrary, this
spontaneity and joy of pure spirit is con-
trasted with the impeded art of a pcetry
subject to the human condition, a poetry
that “looks before and after” and is
burdened with “saddest thought.” Once
the initial theme is announced the poem
proceeds in logical order:
(1) First come a series of stanzas in-
tensifying the etherialisation of the bird,
through images expressing the limits of
height and visibility. The internal order
of this series balances day and night,
dusk and dawn.
(2) Then the notion of an invisible
source of spiritual effluence is developed
and intensified by a new series which takes
us from the cloud in the height to the
glow-worm on the ground—thus complet-
ing the arc that began with the skylark’s
ascent and spreading collaterally at
ground-level into images of rose-scent
and freshness of spring rain. Thus a
whole world of analogous signs trans-
parent to the Spirit has been called up.
(3) Now the contrast is drawn between
human song (i.e., poetry) beset by pain
and limitations and the song proper to
transcendent Spirit. What Shelley does is
to set out the problem that obsessed
Mallarme, and for which he found no
answer. Human words can express the
transcendental only indirectly and ana-
logically, in glancing reflections, as in this
poem. Moreover, as Brennan realised,
“We use poetry to express not the perfect
beauty, but our want of it. ...” The
problem for a “pure poetry” such as
Mallarme aspired to is, what is it to have
as its content ?
What objects are the fountains
Of thy happy strain?
What fields, or waves, or mountains?
What shapes of sky or plain?
What love of thine own kind? What
ignorance of pain?
Mallarme was forced to climb down from
the Absolute if he was to make poetry at
all. Shelley is aware of the dilemma of
“pure poetry” which cannot be about
anything.
(4) But Shelley believed in an eventual
ascent of man to divinisation, by a
gradual change which would enable
human life ultimately to transcend the
present human limits and at least approxi-
mate to the transcendental life of the
Spirit. The skylark, verging upon the
realm of the invisible, is the symbol of
that hoped-for ascent. Its outpouring of
song is the symbol of that inspiration
which Shelley hopes will descend upon
him, so that the world may listen to his
prophecy.
TThe poem is therefore no “tumbled out
spate” for all its pace and kaleido-
scopic brilliance. It is not held together
with emotion alone, but by logical con-
nections, like most of Shelley’s lyrics.
There remains the charge of “poeticali-
ties,” i.e., the complaint that Shelley’s
images and diction function in a way that
does not conform to demands formulated
by Dr Leavis. As to that, one must start
by saying that they do conform pretty
well to that medieval-renascence poetic
which is the matrix of our English poetry,
and by reference to which alone “the
tradition” can intelligibly be defined. The
critic who sets up some provincial whim-
wham of his own, the critic for whom
“discrimination” is not so much a nice
perception of differences in kind and
mode as a blade to cut off heads, must be
dealt with under Dr Johnson’s rubric:
“To a thousand cavils one answer is
sufficient . . . the criticism which would
destroy the power of pleasing must be
blown aside.”
POSSUMS IN THE ROOF
By M. H. ELLIS
Tn this revised thesis * for a Ph.D. degree
■*- at Melbourne University the approach
of the author is academic, dwells more on
the legal side of the question than on the
practical. The writer obviously lacks an
inside knowledge of the rough and tumble
of politics and his dictum that certain
decisions of the higher constitutional
tribunals “establish that the freedom of
action of a Minister in an Australian
Cabinet is limited only by a certain way-
wardness in the disposition of the High
Court to interpret some actions as being
‘incidental’ to the power exercised” marks
the limits of his vision.
He is more impressed by the consti-
tutionrl power of Cabinets than by the
moulding sources of their authority and
the limits imposed from outside formal
parliamentary institutions. And there-
fore to the practical political observer he
is apt at times to look like the innocent
stranger, amusedly watching the gambols
*Cabinet Government in Australia.
S. Encel. Melbourne University
Press. 655.


of a group of young lubras, but oblivious
of the spears which they are dragging
through the grass between their toes.
The distinction between the author’s
legalistic and formal view of the Cabinet
and the reality is emphasised by his fur-
ther remark that “in general, the simi-
larity in the constitutional status of
Cabinet Government in Australia to its
counterpart in Britain has been u; Jer-
lined by the (High) Court’s decisions.”
The differences between the status and
habits of the Australian and British Cab-
inets — State Cabinets become more and
more curious - are intrinsical, and the
gulf is widening with every decade, “he
British Cabinet and Ministry operates
against the background of a large House
of Commons, well detached from it, and
jealous of its own corporate powers exer-
cised under a severely independent and
judicial Speaker. Most of the members
have no interest in the Ministry save to
influence it to their ends and prevent it
invading their area of privilege.
The Australian Cabinet has grown up
as the kernel of a legislative Lower House
no larger than a British Ministry when
Under-Secretaries and Whips (who are
junior Lords of the Treasury) are in-
cluded. It has evolved in an atmosphere
in which the Speaker, when one party
is in power, regards himself as a sort of
Minister and comes down into the
when necessary to support the Govern-
ment.
' I 'he Federal House is one which,
curiously, has been rather apt to re-
sent the interference of a Speaker topro-
tect its privileges against inroads on its
authority by Ministers. But this attitude
is not so strange when one recalls that
from the end of World War I till 1949
at least half or more of the House was
made up of present or past Ministers, or
aspiring Ministers, who could expect to
succeed to a portfolio by one means or
another within a foreseeable period.
The House w'hich went out of exis-
tence in 1949 contained 31 Ministers and
ex-Ministers out of a total of 74 (plus one
voteless) ; and, because of the age of the
seniors, aspirants for and expectants of
Cabinet rank were numerous, so majority
opinion leaned towards the ministerial
rather than the parliamentary. The ten-
dency had become more marked when
the Cabinet numbers were increased to
19 in 1943 to meet the exigencies of war
and when a large number of members,
including the Speaker (who became Con-
troller of Leather!) were given war jobs
and, with them, a taste of wffiat execu-
tive power could mean.
Another strong influence on the mould-
ing of the Cabinet and Cabinet influence
in Canberra has been the manner in
which shortage of office accommodation
has forced the parliamentarians and civil
servants to live in each other's pockets
and led to the elimination of the rigidly
observed convention in other parts of the
white-race British Commonwealth that a
Parliament House is a sacred grove of
privilege in which there is no place for
civil servants or non-parliamentarians.
The gradual encroachment of the civil
service into the office precincts of their
Ministers within Parliament House in
Canberra ultimately led to a battle for
rights between the Speaker and senior
civil servants and their Ministers.
It is in a matter concerned with this
issue that Dr Encel falls into one error
of fact in his narration of the circum-
stances of the appointment in 1952 of
the Menzies Government’s dead-letter
batch of Under-Secretaries, whose future
was determined by the emphatic argu-
ments of Mr Cameron backed by pre-
cedent. Dr Encel writes that “after hav-
ing provided accommodation for the
Under-Secretaries in Parliament House
.. . Mr Cameron decided to withdraw his
recognition and instructed officers to
remove the names of Under-Secretaries
from the doors of their rooms.” The fact
was that Cameron never swerved from
the view that the appointment of the
Under-Secretaries was unconstitutional
and that there might be serious legal
complications if they exercised powers
which might be interpreted as executive.
The dispute about the names on their
doors was another matter. He gave no
authority for these to be painted up ; it
was done without his authority. And he
had them removed.
Perhaps, however, the greatest influence
on the nature of Cabinet Government in
Australia has been the close relationship
between Labor war-time Cabinets and
the ALP bodies outside. The examples
produced by this liaison have had an in-
fluence on Liberal Cabinet action as well
as Labor Cabinet action in producing
divergence from British parliamentary
tradition. Dr Enc'4 gives a long history
of Cabinet relationships with the political
machines, but falls into errors through
taking his facts from secondary sources.
One important instance is his inexact
account of the incident (p. 188) in which
Curtin, to counter opposition in his
Cabinet—an item which Dr Encel does
not mention —appealed at the Federal
Conference of the ALP in December,
1942, for permission to submit to Parlia-
ment an amendment of the Defence Act
to widen the area in which conscript
militiamen might be used in the war. He
pointed out that they could be used only
for the defence of part of New Guinea
and that though they could be sent to
Darwin, which was subject to bombing,
they could not be sent to Timor to prevent
Darwin being bombed. Dr Encel misses
the whole point of what happened in the
Conference as it affected Cabinet Govern-
ment. Not only was Curtin compelled
to go to Conference to dragoon
his Cabinet, but in Conference two
of his Ministers, Calwell a :1 Senator
Cameron, opposed his scheme publicly,
Calwell even trying to prevent him
opening the debate and the pair being
largely responsible for the delay of two
months in getting a ruling vital to the
conduct of the war and in having the
question remitted to State ALP branches
for decision. They moreover acted as
delegates to bring back from Victoria an
answer adverse to Curtin’s plan and
fought the favorable States’ majority
tooth and nail at the adjourned debate of
the Federal Conference in January, 19 '3.
Yet, afterwoods they were able to re-
main in the Cabinet —something that
would not have happened in a British
Cabinet or a Liberal Cabinet in Aus-
tralia. This was not the only incident of
the kind in Labor Cabinet history.
Theoretically, the Commonwealth
Cabinet appears to act on British prin-
ciples as Dr Encel states, just as (under
Section 49 of the Constitution) the powers,
privileges and immunities of the Parlia-
ment are ostensibly based but only
based —on those of the House of Com-
mons and its members. Australian Cab-
inet theory, like Parliamentary theory,
and particularly Parliamentary manners
have diverged more widely from the basic
model than has been noticed, perhaps,
in the pure academic air of the National
University. Manners particularly. What
would have happened in the Commons to
the honorable (but not gallant) member
who, with the Bonar Law Delegation
at the Bar to present a glittering
mace to the House of Representatives
from the Mother of Parliaments,
went through the age-old ceremony of
calling “strangers” as the Senate filed in
stately procession into the public galleries
up above: “Mr Speaker, 1 spy possums
in the roof!” in Canberra even Mr
Speaker Cameron took it lying down.
SOLID WORTH
Twentieth Century. Autumn 1962. ss.
A mong Australian quarterlies “Twen-
tieth Century” occupies a special, if
often disregarded, position. It is pub-
lished by a Catholic organisation, the
Institute of Social Order, and edited by
a Jesuit, Father W. G. Smith ; and a few
years ago the marks of this were heavily
obvious. Recently, though, it has become
much brighter both typographically and
in terms of content, and a long way re-
moved from the parochial or diocesan
journal.
Until the advent of “Prospect” this


WILD COMPANY
ENCOUNTERS BETWEEN MAN & BEAST
Ed. by Eric Duthie
Eric Duthie’s magnificent anthology of the writings of writers, scientists,
collectors, field naturalists, with contributions from Gerald Durrell, Gavin
Maxwell, Sir Julian Huxley, etc. 26/-
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON MELBOURNE SYDNEY AUCKLAND
other Melbourne quarterly was about the
only “intellectual” publication regularly
produced by Australian Catholics, and it
still has a distinctive role. For one thing,
like “Prospect,” it has always encouraged
contributions from non-Catholics, and
looking through the file of the last few
years one finds articles and reviews by
A. D. Hope, Lloyd Ross, A. R. Chis-
holm, George Yule and Evan Jones, for
instance. Again, it has overseas contribu-
tors, like Robert Speaight and Neville
Braybrooke, which also extends its range.
That range is quite impressive—even
a regular reader is surprised at it, leafing
though old issues. The magazine is
weakest in “creative” writing, and the
poems and stories it publishes are neither
numerous nor remarkable, usually. But
the articles, although they tend to be too
short and sometimes scrappy, cover many
fields: politics and history, films and
music, literary criticism and philosophy,
as well as the expected discussions of
theology and morality. In history, the
editor has given substance to his journal
by publishing articles of a strictly learned
character, based on academic research:
an instance in the current issue is P. J.
O’Farrell’s consideration of socialism in
the first decade of the century, and others
in the past have included Bruce Mans-
field on Australian Radicalism and Ron-
ald Fogarty on the history of education.
In politics there seem to be two main
types of treatment. Fairly frequently
“Twentieth Century” runs theoretical
discussions, such as M. J. Charlesworth’s
“Conscience and Liberty” in this number
or a symposium on Pluralism (Winter,
1960), but it also prints commentators like
Denis Warner, D. G. M. Jackson, James
Jupp and B. A. Santamaria. In general,
these articles are readable and thought-
ful, whether one likes their stance or not.
The arts also do quite well. Literary
criticism occupies a fair amount of space,
and there are regular articles on music
by Kenneth Hince and on films by
Ronald Conway (notably one on Berg-
man, Winter, 1961). Occasionally one
finds a review of particular value, such
as Philip Martin’s critique of Randolph
Stow’s “Act One,” but most of this section
of the journal is informative rather than
impressive, and the selection of books
reviewed sometimes seems odd.
It is in the reviews that one of the
main characteristics, for good or ill, of
“Twentieth Century” emerges: it is pretty
clearly a “middlebrow” magazine. Its
circulation is, I suppose, predominantly
Catholic ; it would, I imagine, be read
chiefly by clergy, religious, professional
people, and undergraduates. If this is
true, the value of the journal as an edu-
cative force in Australian Catholicism
can hardly be over-estimated.
One says this because, however stereo-
typed “Twentieth Century’s” attitudes
may appear to those unsympathetic to its
pre-suppositions, they are in fact varied,
healthy and even adventurous, given their
context. Australian Catholicism, like
American, derived from Ireland a con-
cern for intellectual pursuits which was
oratorical, uncritical and censorious when
it was not timid ; and only in recent years
has a more analytical and a more broad-
minded approach become evident. “Pros-
pect” demonstrates this more obviously
than “Twentieth Century,” but the latter
indicates the working of the leaven no
less surely. And one of the most cheer-
ing effects is the tolerance to other de-
nominations displayed there, founded on
scholarship as well as charity ; this is
seen particularly in W. J. Dalton's excel-
lent treatment of the New English Bible
(Winter, 1961).
Altogether, “Twentieth Century’ is a
phenomenon of individual interest in
contemporary Australian writing. It is
uneven, sometimes rather dull, rarely
exciting ; but it maintains solid wo: 1 -.
issue after issue, and it looks and reads
vastly better than it did ten years ago.
The current issue is a representative one;
those who share the attitudes of its con-
tributors and especially of its tolerant
and shrewd editor will, of course, enjoy
it; those who don’t, will find it readable
and perhaps instructive.
G. K. W. JOHNSTEN
SLIDES ON THE WALL
Front-Line Stalingrad. Victor Nekra-
sov. Harvill. 225. 6d.
The Foothold. Grigory Baklanov.
Chapman and Hall. 18s. 9d.
A Girl from Lubeck. Bruce Marshall.
Collins. 20s.
It was only in a war that you get to
know people properly” concludes
Kerzhentsev, the main character of
“Front-Line Stalingrad.” “War was like
litmus paper, like a sort of photographic
developer.” Both in this work and in
“The Foothold” character is winnowed
by the nearness of death: men are tested,
but not really known. In both, Russian
soldiers resist German forces superior in
manpower and equipment and eventually
take the offensive. Why? Neither writer
gives us more than the “inner warmth
of patriotism” of Tolstoy. There is no
time for any more subtle or penetrating
answer: character cannot be evaluated
in the brief space between mortar ex-
plosions, and beyond this there is little
more than stereotyped flashbacks to the
normal world which seems too pristine
and antediluvian to provide adequate
perspective. We are given no creative
frame wherein life can be held: war, not
vision, gives these novels their justifica-
tion and unity.
“Front-Line Stalingrad” was originally
published in 1946, and “The Foothold”
thirteen years later; and though the
latter has more sensitivity and fluency,
they are in essence two of a kind, similar
in theme, characterisation and style.
Spectacular attacks by dive-bombers, or
tanks can conceal a paucity of imagina-
tion, can distract us from a realisation
that the individual is being submerged,
and this is why war proves irresistible
to the social realist. The trouble is that
the realism is rarely more than a docu-
mentary illusion of life: immersed as
they are in a style and ideology that
come from the nineteenth century,
Kerzhentsev and Motovilov, the two
heroes of Stalingrad and the Dniester,
disappear like slides on a wall when
the books are finished.
With Bruce Marshall we jump over
fifty years of writing to a Lucky Jim, ten
years older, lecturing on English Litera-
ture for the English Letters Association:
Oliver Versory, whose repertoire consists
of one lecture, entitled “From Beowulf
to Dylan Thomas,” memorised in Ger-
man, French, and Italian. One night in
Lubeck, Hannelore, a superb blonde,
emerges from the winking sea of myopic
bifocals and overwhelms him.
With the luck that anti-heroes have


Kstab'ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
- JACKSON &
'■ oSULLIY’ajv
v rrY . Ljo JL
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. I,td.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & C».
Printers, Pafei Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
lithographic printers
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STF.REOTYFERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
BOOKHUNTER
Dept. “D," Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only If successful.
perforce to be endowed with, he wins
her, and back in Paris, where his
organisation has its headquarters, he
enjoys delirious nights of love in a room
with mirrors. So far Marshall has us
with him. Despite his good fortune,
Versory is so hopeless and badgered in
his job that we can identify with him;
the comedy is rich, the dialogue often
brilliant. But comic invention degenerates
into tedious farce: Hannelore is first
suspected of being a spy for the corres-
ponding Russian cultural organisation ;
then she turns out to be a harlot; runs
away with Beaker, Versory’s repellent
boss, is pursued by the jilted party, and
so on and on in a breathless whirligig.
Worse is to come. The returning party,
guilty, plausible Beaker and apprehending
wife, Versory and Hannelore, stop off at
Ars ; the mummified Cure is inspected,
religious discussions indulged in, and
finally deus, hitherto utterly ex machina,
suddenly assumes control of the merry-
go-round and, in a climactic exhibition
of legerdemain, turns Hannelore the
prostitute into a nun. It is sad to see
a writer of such manifest gifts of wit
and comedy decline so spectacularly.
BARRY OAKLEY
COMMON PURPOSE
The Correspondence Between Richard
Strauss and Hugo von Hofmannsthal.
Translated by Hans Hammelmann
and Ewald Osers. Collins. 68s.
The Strauss-Hofmannsthal correspon-
dence is certainly one of the most
fascinating and exhilarating volumes of
letters ever presented. Though more
“ Why , Waldo. How nice of you
to drop in."
limited in appeal, it takes its place with
Lawrence's letters, the Alain-Fournier-
Riviere correspondence and the letters of
Rilke as one of the most important collec-
tions of letters of this century.
In 1900 Flofmannsthal wrote to
Strauss about an idea he had for a ballet ;
Strauss was unable to use it and no
further letters were exchanged for six
years. Then in 1906, after their first
very casual, almost abortive, contact they
started to work on “Elektra”. and this
opera was soon followed by “Der Rosen-
kavaiier”, “Ariadne auf Naxos” (their
masterpiece), “Die Frau Ohne
Schatten,” “Die aegyptische Helena” and
several other works —the result of one of
the most extraordinary and unexpected
collaborations in the history of music.
The correspondence gathered here covers
and documents the greater part of their
relationship up to Hofmannsthal’s tragic
death in 1929.
Their partnership was not an easy one ;
temperamentally Strauss and Hofmanns-
thal were very different. Their social
worlds were almost incompatible and
mutual understanding took a long time.
Strauss seems to have been a vigorous
and healthy extrovert, down to earth,
direct and energetic in his dealings with
the world. Hofmannsthal (as Edward
Sackville-West points out in his admirable
introduction) was obviously a complex
and tortuous character —nervous, hyper-
sensitive and evasive, obstinate and
irritable, shrewd and demanding in prac-
tical and business matters, and with a
complete and humble confidence in his
own creative and artistic powers. He
seems to have preferred to meet Strauss
as infrequently as possible and to confine
communication to long, detailed, beauti-
fully written letters which are valuable,
not only because they throw so much
light on their collaboration and on the
workings of his own fastidious and fas-
cinating mind, but also on the creative
process itself. But in spite of their
apparent differences both admired each
other's work deeply and though they
never once addressed each other by their
Christian names, their sense of a common
purpose was unfailing for nearly thirty
years.
Hofmannsthal one: wrote to Strauss
“Friendship between artists knows noth-
ing finer than ungrudging joy in one an-
other’s productive work”; and in another
letter: “I have learnt far more from
what I was able to gather from the
features of older, still living works of
literature than from any "demands of our
time’ which might seem to be in the air.”
As a record of this joy and of their con-
stant struggle against the clamoring de-
mands of their time in order to give that
time something greater than it clamored
for, this is an enlightening and moving
book.
VIVIAN SMITH


FLAT TO LET
TERRIGAL. on surfing beach and opposite
lake, beautiful new brick flat to let, fully and
tastefully furnished. Accommodates five-six.
Ring Sydney FY6918
or write
Flat 5, 2 Military Road, Dover Heights
EFG
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN BOOKSHOP
28 Martin Place, Sydney, N.S.W. Ground Floor. BW 9807
U. W. Kitzinger: The Challenge of
the Common Market .. .. 17/6
lain Macleod: Neville Chamberlain 37/3
Hugh Halton: High Tide and After 56/9
J. T. Ijang: The Great Bust! .. 38/6
J. Jervis: The Cradle City of Aus-
tralia—A History of Parramatta 25/-
Barbara Reynolds: Tlie Cambridge
Italian Dictionary. Vol. I Italian-
English .. .. .. .. 210/
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. —In Divorce.
TO KEVIN DAVID NIXON late of Strathfield.—
TAKE NOTICE that EILEEN ISABEL DIXON has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2726 of 1960 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards and is asking for the exercise
of the Court’s discretion under 5.19(2) (a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899.-1960 If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme. Court Macquarie. Street Sydney by
the 23th day of June 1962 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from GEOFFREY SEE
GILLIS & CO., Solicitors, 28 Martin Place, Sydney.
—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO LESLIE FRANCIS DATE late of Gladstone in the
State of Queensland and whose present address is
unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that ELLEN MARIA
DATE has commenced an action against you for the
dissolution of marriage No. 106 of 1962 on the
grounds of desertion If j-ou wish to defend you
may file an answer in the Registry of the Supreme
Court Brisbane within thirty (30) days. from the
date of publication hereof You may obtain without
charge a copy of the petition and Notice of Petition
from MESSRS. M. J. O’SULLIVAN & O’SULLIVAN,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, Margaret Street,. Too-
woomba. —E. V. LARACY, Second Deputy Registrar.
Missing Friends
Would anyone knowing the whereabouts of FRANCES
AMY McLEAN (nee FRANCES AMY HAYWOOD),
formerly of Goomalling, in the State of Western
Australia, please contact MESSRS. CONNOR, MAY-
BERRY & CO., Solicitors, of 110 Fitzgerald Street,
Northam, Western Australia, with reference to the
estate of WILLIAM HAYWOOD (Deceased).
Positions Vacant
THE KING’S SCHOOL
PARRAMATTA
Applications are invited to fill several vacancies
on the Teaching Staff of The King's School
in First Term, 1963.
Special consideration will be given to appli-
cants well qualified to teach Science and/or
Maths, but Masters to teach English, History,
Geography and Economics are also required.
Masters joining the staff will be expected
to make a full contribution to the general
life of the school outside as well as inside
the classroom.
All classrooms, Science Labs and Masters’
Common Room now in use (opened First
Term 1962) are modern.
Applicants in the first place should send
full statement of qualifications, copies of two
testimonials and names and addresses of two
referees to the Headmaster: H. D. Hake,
M.A. (Cantab).
ENGINES
RECONDITIONED
WHILE-YOU-DRIVE
Super Nu Metal Pat. expands up to 30%,
eliminating slackness and lack of power
caused by WORN engine parts. Replates
worn Upper Cylinders, main bearings,
diffs, gears, SAVES rebore, ends piston
slap, rattles, oil, petrol waste. RESTORES:
New compression Power, top speed zip.
ADDS £ s. d. resale value. GUARANTEED:
Up to 25.000 miles according to engine
wear. SIMPLY add Re-Nu expanding liquid,
Nu Metal or in tablet form to oil, petrol,
plug holes. 4,6, 8 cylinders, 60/-, 70/-, SO/-.
Manufactured since 193 i. Harmless to Finest
Engines. Open Saturday. Sold only by
RENT CO. (ESTAB. 1932).
Scientific Colleges & Plastic (Ind. Co. Pty. Ltd.),
58 Swan Street, Richmond, Vic. J 81755.
I enclose £ for Super Nu Metal, or send copy
of testimonials, engineers reports and free folder
describing action of Nu Metal.
NAME
ADDRESS Bul
GOLDEN AGES
The Penguin Book of Russian Verse.
Introduced a: 1 Edited by Dimitri
Obolensky. 10s. 6d.
the inevitable limitations of an
anthology that seeks to represent in
450 small pages the whole of the poetry
written in one language, this is a very
good book. In his introduction, Dimitri
Obolensky doesn’t make any of the
common generalisations about the
Russian character (whether like Maurice
Baring's “The Russian poetical tempera-
ment . . . clings to the solid earth,” or
like Berdyaev’s “In the Russian soul
there is a sort of immensity, a vagueness,
a predilection for the infinite . . .”):
leaving the poems themselves to suggest
new generalities, he gives a useful, if
superficial, historical account of the
development of Russian verse.
Written poetry arose very late in
Russia, for although the twelfth to
seventeenth centuries produced a great
deal of oral folk poetry (heroic and
religious) a modern literary tradition
began only in the 18th century and was
even then not abundant. But the antholo-
gist’s task is not specially simple, for the
19th century teems with poetry ; with a
first Golden Age (Pushkin and the
Romantics) at its beginning, and a second
(Blok and the Symbolists) at its end.
An obvious comparison to make is
with Baring’s “Oxford Book of Russian
Verse,” hitherto the standard anthology.
In most respects, Obolensky offers far
more: but the most conspicuous improve-
ment on the Oxford Book is that whereas
the latter gives half its space to the 19th
century, and a third to the 20th, the
Penguin Book exactly reverses these
proportions, thus reflecting the impor-
tance of the poetic movements (Symbol-
ist, Acmeist, Futurist, etc.) of the first two
or three decades of this century.
An advantage of another kind which
this book has ever the Oxford Book
consists in the provision of a “plain
prose translation” of each poem at the
foot of the page. The translations are all
very good and it is to be hoped that
this book will take the place of many of
the available metrical translations of
Russian verse, almost all of which are
extremely bad and yet are trustingly read.
Russian poetry is often unusually
simple without thereby approaching the
prosaic. Translators, worried by this, and
more sensitive to self-imposed exigencies
of rhyme and rhythm than to the fine-
nesses of the original, produce such
nonsense as Jack Lindsay’s in his “Russian
Poetry 1917-1955,” where, for instance,
Akhmatova’s line:
“Otchevo zhe nam stalo svetlo?”,
rightly rendered by Obolensky as:
“Why then does a light shine for
us?”,
is distorted by Lindsay into:
“How then does such a gracious
radiance fall?”
More dates of composition ought
to have been provided. This would have
made clear that, for example, of the four
stages which the introduction dis-
tinguishes in Pushkin’s poetical career, the
first two are not represented.
But this is the main criticism. It is not
very useful to point out which impor-
tant poems an anthologist has omitted ;
such lacks probably cannot be made good
in an anthology of this size. What is
needed now is a series of anthologies for
particular periods (say; Romantic, Sym-
bolist, Post-Symbolist) as well as a
separate annotated edition of Pushkin.
A. M. LIVINGSTONE
FRIENDS (QUAKERS)
Members of the religious Society
of Friends, also known as Quakers,
believe in the guidance of the Holy
Spirit rather than in outward rites
and an ordained ministry. Meetings
for Worship are held on a basis of
meditative silence developing an
awareness of God’s presence.
With no rigid creed or dogma,
Friends endeavour individually and as
a Society to live and work in the
spirit of the life and teachings of
Christ.
Because we believe that every man
has something of God in him, we
seek reconciliation between man and
man, and pursue ways of bringing
men together in love despite differ-
ences in class, colour, or nationality.
Further information may be ob-
tained free on application to Friends’
House, 133 Orrong Rd„ 5.E.2 Victoria.


Feiffer
AIL MH LIFE PEOPLE
OEEM TELLIUO ME l
mi A MORAL OdUOATICR.
BEFORE The IjQAR l
HAP A MORAL
OBU6ATIOK) TO
EIGHT FASCISM:
PERIL) 6 THE WAR I OLv'ED IT
To mm country to Join I
THE ARMY.
60 I CAkl'T %
FOR SOMETH I M6
because ITS Just
RIGHT ANYMORE.
I GOT TO EE
FOR IT BECAUSE
IP OWE SOME-
BOW IF l
l/VASNJ'T.
AFTER THE WAR IT WAS
MH DUTY TO H/ORR
FOR PEACE, INTE-
-6RATION, DECENT
-) HOUSING AMP
' SETTER TBtf-
VISION
PROGRAMS.
I FEEL A 6
IF I'M
LIVIhJS INJ
A MORAL
DEBTORS'
PRISON).
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 692
Across
I—Benaud’s1 —Benaud’s t>pe of bowling move with the current spray.
(9)
s—Morning5—Morning in stomach scale. (5)
B—Towel torn by this little hooter. (5)
IC—They're coming. (9)
11 — E'eiis of 10-across are such sutlers. (4-9)
12 — South Carolina has his manuscript splits. (7)
14—Bird r.lative to relations. (6)
16 —Bloke named after Jolson in recess. (6)
18 —A fugitive in quest of sanctuary.
(7)
21—Drive His Majesty from the
skating rink by barracking the
ticket bureau. (7, 6)
24 — They plunder the back lip beers.
(9)
25 — Hot in this loincloth. (5)
26 — Pen the French artistic manner
of expression. (5)
27 — To the track of a venerable
Sydney tram with tableware. (9)
Down
1 — Demanded by those who won’t
credit you with drinking money
(4, 4)
2 Irregular mails accepted by
Moslems. (5)
3 Curiously cleans ice to glow with
heat. (9)
4 Thanks to a medical graduate,
nothing is enough for a Gipps-
land river. (5)
5 Small mouths are drinking
vessels. (7)
6 Hurting bite of a blind burrower.
(9)
7 Edward of Tasmania exercised
one of the senses. (6)
9—The swells who are off in the
middle. (5)
13 — A yokel from Mount Hughes?
(9)
14— South Australian rag bone on
South Australian city in Spain. (9)
15 — A confirmed bachelor is
Italianised well ahead of Richard.
(S)
17—Egg-shaped vat in a wind instru-
ment. (7)
19 — Took nourishment at last if upset
at first, and blew a musical in-
strument. (5)
20 — The college precincts have us
as 11-across. (6)
22 — Pet could be found so clumsy
and unsuitable. (5)
23 — I also confused an Italian island.
(5)
Solution to Crossword No. 691


SHOWA DENKO K.K.
Main Products
Ferrochrome, other ferroalloys, electrolytic iron;
Aluminium ingots, alloys, wire bars;
Artificial graphite electrodes, other carbonaceous
products;
Fused alumina, silicon carbide, other abrasive grains;
Petrochemicals, other organic and inorganic chemicals;
Ammonium sulphate, urea and other chemical
fertilizers;
Reactor materials, including graphite and heavy water.
Products for progress
Serving industry and agriculture
around the world
rdmM
Ai
i*
vs
&
iry
iV«fYA'
v j*- . -
Write for further information; general catalogue will be sent upon request.
SHOWA DENKO K.K.
34, Shiba Miyamoto-cho, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan
Cable Address: SECIC TOKYO
