

The Bulletin
CTOBER 2(D J 962
AUSTRAyBSIJ H± M, SINGAPORE, MAkAxA il
AM AUSTRALIAN JOURNAL OF COMMENT Jrm oNnION l EST. 1880
BIG MONEY
LOSERS 196®
• ABORTION IN AUSTRALIA Facts, Figures and Attitudes


-mmgm
m
mm
'
ss©=
■■
es@:
1
rff--*
ftSis
V
m
m
9m
/
;
m
m
m
laZ
:
h , : '
*
i
>j: '. ..'
® *«»
L.
i.
PPQ
S
\
FILTER
OTMMAWS M «- “«i /»OSTBAUA
w»
Mssar :
_
Better tobacco
Finer filter
r I'
lrue
King Size flavour
WORLD COPYRIGHT
ROTHMANS KING SIZE
really satisfies.
BETTER TOBACCO
Rothmans is famous for paying top
prices year after year at the world’s
great tobacco auctions, to give you
the best tobacco that money can buy.
FINER FILTER
5,000 inches of pure cellulose fibre
strands are used in every cigarette
to give better filtration and to enhance
the fine smooth flavour of the world’s
best tobaccos.
TRUE KING SIZE FLAVOUR
For True King Size flavour and I
smoking satisfaction smoke Rothm;
King Size Filter. Doubly smootf
the extra length plus the filter
give you that cooler, smoother ta


National Notebook
The Windsor Takes Heart
Windsor Hotel, Melbourne, is a
A lovely dignified old hotel. It has lots
of good solid columns, slideable banis-
ters, marble on the floor and ceilings as
high as the Exhibition Building. People
with cash from the Western District stay
there, touring Test sides always stay
there; it has tradition and a damned
good wine list. It w'as built in 1883
and in the old days it was knowm as
the Grand Hotel. In 1886 it was taken
over by a temperance group and there
was a great banquet. The chairman of
directors was the Hon. James Munro,
President of the Melbourne Total Ab-
stinence Society.
In the middle of his speech he drew
the hotel’s licence from his breast pocket
and said: “Well, gentlemen, this is what
we think of the licence.” Then, to the
clamorous cheering of all present he set
it alight and the invaluable thing went
up in smoke. Financially this did the
dear old place no good at all and it
remained without a licence until 1920.
After 1920, it became
The Windsor; £lOO,OOO
was spent in renovations.
Now big money is being
spent again, nothing flashy
or bold, all in the same
good taste. By the end of
December there will be a new public bar
and three reception rooms and by March,
100 new bedrooms and 11 suites. This is
interesting because The Windsor is just
a block from The Southern Cross, Aust-
ralia’s newest and biggest k 'ttel.
While hotel companies have become
faint-hearted and fearful and suspended
all their building plans, the Old Windsor
has turned out the bravest of them all,
confident that its clientele will never
desert for the fancy American treat-
ment in Exhibition Street. However,
some of the customers report happily
that service at The Windsor has stepped
up 100 per cent since the Southern Cross
opened its doors and the same goes
for the other hotels. The Windsor should
do very nicely with its big expansion
and apparently on the opening day of
the new building the directors have no
intention of making a public burning
of the licence.
Darwin Rig
is Darwin rig? When the
Northern Territory Administrator,
Roger Nott, decreed Darwin rig for
the Queen’s visit next year he
raised a storm in Darwin, echoes
from which may be sounding
down the draughty corridors of Bucking-
ham Palace.
The “Northern Territory News” said
Darwin rig was black trousers and shoes,
white long-sleeved shirt and black tie.
Mr Nott said no, Darwin rig was long
trousers (any color), tie, and white long-
sleeved shirt. Black trousers and tie, he
said, was Darwin formal.
Mr Slim Taylor, manager of the Work-
ers’ Club where bare chests are the
rule and shorts often vie for popularity
with a sort of hessian kilt was ad-
amant: “Darwin rig is black trousers,
black tie and a white shirt,” he said.
“That should be enough for anybody.”
Veteran Territorian Hans Nudl (he’s
been here since 1933) pleaded for a
return to the leisurely pre-war days when
white ducks were “a must” for evening
wear in Darwin. Bitterly he protested
against the current practice of attending
picture show's “in scuffs, short shorts, or
with shirts hanging out.” Mr Nudl blam-
ed it all on the Army. “When they came
here during the war they got around in
shorts and nothing else”,
he said. “After a while it
became accepted wear,
with the result that Darwin
dress now is thoroughly
slipshod.”
“What’s wrong with
shorts? ’ a stevedore wanted to know.
“Why not Hayes Creek rig shoes
and underpants?” suggested an expatriate
Englishman, now living “down the
track.”
Self-preservation
someone from the Aboriginal-
Australian Fellowship rang up and
rather insisted that we see Mrs Kath
Walker, of Brisbane, while she was in
Sydney our heart rather sank. Mrs
Walker, a part-aborigine, is honorary sec-
retary of the Queensland Council for the
Advancement of Aborigines and Torres
Islanders and was in Sydney helping to
organise a petition to have the Federal
Constitution amended so that it no longer
discriminates against aborigines.
Somehow we got the feeling that Mrs
Walker might be being treated rather as a
prize exhibit. Here is an aborigine.
Doesn’t this pitiful, shabby, shuffling
object arouse your pity?
But Mrs Walker is the last person to
lend herself to sentimental attitudes, even
if the Fellowship were so misguided. A
Dr. GOUGH Page 6
The Archbishop and State Schools
0
Melbourne Changes at
Georges 10
1962’s Big Money Losers 12
Sense in Defence 14
Ned Kelly Psychopathic
Poet 15
Efficiency Rating the Vatican 17
An Absence of Toheroa 19
India Watch on the Chejao 24
Cambodia Problems with
Neighbors 25
Portugal Crumbling Empire 26
Abortion in Australia Facts,
Figures, Attitudes 27
Cousin from Fiji Musical .... 32
John Anderson’s ‘Book’. W.
Ginnane 36
Dairy Board’s Secret Plan .... 40
Sharemarket Weighs Anchor.. 41
Sir lan Potter Returns .... .... 42
®
TANNER 4
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
80 YEARS AGO 7
AROUND MELBOURNE 10
OUT AND ABOUT 16
N.Z. NEWSLETTER 19
SHORT STORY 21
OVERSEAS 24
FORUM 27
LETTERS 30
REVIEWS 32
RED PAGE 36
MAN ON THE LAND 40
WORLD OF BUSINESS ... 41
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY. LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George St., Sydney
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521: Phone
27-5971. Melbourne: Phone MF 3341. Bris-
bane: Phone B 2691. Adelaide: Phone
W 4121-3
Vol. 84
No. 4314


former member of the women's army ser-
vice, she has given up a typist’s job and
accepted a pension so that she can both
spend more time with her two sons and
more time working voluntarily to ad-
vance her people’s cause. But this cause
is a burden she takes up with good sense
and good humor.
“What we want first is to come within
the scope of Federal Parliament so that
there will no longer be different laws
and regulations for aborigines in each
State,” she said. “Then what we want is
employment and proper wages. When I
went to a Federal council conference in
Adelaide all the white delegates were for
putting education at the top of the list
of what should be done for us. But if we
have money and jobs we can get our
children educated. We aborigines passed
only one resolution at that conference and
that was for wages and employment. If
you pass a dozen resolutions you get
nothing. If you pass one, you might get
something.
“What we don’t want is a continua-
tion of the paternalistic attitude. We
might need a helping hand but we don’t
want to be qualified beggars. If we can
get the Constitution amended, we would
like a rehabilitation scheme, something
like ex-servicemen had after the war.
I learnt typing under that scheme myself.
“We don’t want protection or preser-
vation. That's what the Queensland act
promises us. An African said to me once,
‘Do they preserve you before or after
death?’ Do you know that under the
Queensland act I can be fined or impris-
oned just for speaking against the act.
But one thing—they can't deport me.”
Desecration
ITobart is architecturally the luckiest
of Australian cities. Ample beauti-
ful stone was at hand, and transportation
provided unlimited cheap craftsmen to
cut and lay it so faithfully that even the
150-year-old cottages at Battery Point are
gems. Fortunately, too, there was not
the pressure on city space which in other
cities led to widespread demolitions and
the erection of many poor examples of
Victorian architectural.
Only now is the pressure being felt in
Hobart and today the public is aware
of the beauty of the old buildings, and
jealous of their preservation. The State
Government has generously helped to
preserve good or historically important
buildings under threat.
Now members of Parliament are ask-
ing whether the Government L not em-
barking on the worst possible desecration
by deciding to build a 16-storey steel,
concrete and glass tower for public ser-
vants in Hobart’s most beautiful area,
where Parliament House, trees and many
fine single and double storeyed structures
occupy the gentle slope to Constitution
Dock, Salamanca Place and the wharves
which lie in the shadow of the city.
“I do not live in Hobart, but I am
proud of it,” said Mr Breheny (Lib.) in
the House of Assembly. “If you have
architects who want to put up these
new-fangled things, entirely out of keep-
ing with the character of the city, put
them up at Glenorchy, or declare a
special area for them.”
Mr Rex Townley (Lib.) said that
Hobart already had its awful example of
modern architecture in the new railway
station—a cross between the side door of
the town hall, a toilet and the entrance
to a movie theatre. “It is the worst com-
bination of fronts I have seen anywhere
in Australia,” Mr Townley declared.
Minister for Works Cashion contended
that convenient accommodation had to be
found for 1000-1500 public servants and
only a limited area was available. “As
far as possible the new building will be in
keeping with the surrounding archi-
tecture,” he said.
Miss Yashmak of 7946
TV/leeting Miss Yvonne De Carlo at the
Chevron Hilton, Sydney, is to be
whisked back more than a decade on a
slightly motheaten magic carpet.
Yvonne De Carlo's life story is the
perfect Hollywood fairy-tale come true:
born in Vancouver, she was doing walk-
ons at Paramount when her brother and
other members of the Royal Canadian
Air Force submitted her photograph to
producer Walter Wanger for a Most-
Beautiful-Girl-In-The-World contest. She
won hands down and was cast by Wanger
in a universal vehicle entitled, impossibly,
“Salome Where She Danced.” It remains
her most enjoyable piece of flummery.
Bizarre indeed to find Miss Yashmak
of 1946 performing at the Chevron
Hilton, dodging interviews like any tem-
peramental star of a decade ago, worn
out, gamely plugging on through a few
numbers and dance routines. Her show
was, as a matter of fact, great fun: after
a vile English comedian, a white silk
"Tesit has had a fair trial
and the opportunity
to explore


curtain parted and she stepped out in
pink and white satin with sequins every-
where, even on her shoes, and displayed
rather a good build, a mass of reddish
hair, and a wide, open, humorous face
that has improved with age.
Though she didn’t quite fulfil Wanger’s
old Most - Beautiful - Girl-In-The-World
specification that she should act like
Ingrid Bergman, look like Hedy Lamarr
and dance like Vera Zorina, she was very
much a star, and her highbrow strip-
tease, accompanied by a flow of jaded
comment (“When I first became a serious
actress . . .”), was authentically funny.
Some of her references were too abstruse
for her audience; she talked about being
chased in one picture by Genghiz Khan,
Kublai Khan, Sammy Cahn and Irving
Kahn, and she mentioned Peter Lorre
following her tail, she meant trail,
through the Casbah; we wondered how
many remembered her performances in
the film, or Lorre’s wildly improbable
fish-eyed detective in it.
She sang in French and Spanish,
shouted a rendition of the old Helen
Morgan-Ruth Etting number “Ten Cents
a Dance,” displayed her legs in a wild
Twist routine—-and we liked her very
much: one of her best tricks was to put
a Digger’s hat on her head for a dance
number. Shortly after the show, she
dodged past us up the stairs in a black
dress, looking tired and worn; her hus-
band had recently been severely injured
in a film (he is a stunt man) and she was
too distraught to talk. But we already
felt we knew Yvonne De Carlo very well.
It’s a pity she didn’t stay in Australia
longer.
Tanner
every loophole"
PLAIN ENGLISH
THE STALKING TIGER . . .
A s a correspondent points out on page 24 the Sino-Indian border dispute
could very easily develop into a large-scale conflict in which India
could give a good account of herself even though China has the tactical
advantages of good communications and supply lines across the Tibetan
plateau. It is now apparent that while Mr Nehru was politely and
firmly protesting in Peking over the last couple of years he was also
building up Indian defences. It is also apparent that in the same period
China has been busy tearing something down and that is the so-called
spirit of Bandoeng. Nothing, absolutely nothing, is now left of the famous
Afro-Asian meeting of minds at Bandoeng in 1954 except, perhaps, common
agreement to end colonialism in all its forms. Or all its forms except one.
Red China today offers a new colonialism quite as vicious and more de-
termined than the worst examples preceding it. Behind Peking’s carefully
contrived historical claims to Tibet is a story of invasion, genocide and cul-
tural destruction paralleled only by the Nazis as anyone who takes the
trouble to read the International Jurists Commission report will find out.
Behind its militarily-backed claims to large areas of the Sino-Indian border
is a careful attempt to isolate and destroy India and thus clear the way to
gobble up large parts of Asia at will. No Asian country least of all Aus-
tralia can look at the disputed area on a map and say that it is merely a
border squabble taking place in a remote and frozen part of the world.
It affects every one of us.
It is probably true to say that the future of Asia as Communist or non-
Communist—will be determined more than anything else by the struggle
for supremacy between the two giants, India and China. That being so,
one wonders how Mr Nehru and President Ayub Khan can maintain their
expensive quarrel over Kashmir when Red China stalks them both like a
devouring tiger. Red China’s offer to open talks with Pakistan over defin-
ing a common border while ostentatiously avoiding any reference to
Indian claims to Kashmir is an historic example of the policy of divide and
conquer.
AN EYE FOR AN EYE?
IT is not surprising that so much of the agitation about the fate of Robert
Peter Tait has hinged on whether or not he is mad. About the only
thing that hangers and abolitionists agree on is that lunatics should not be
hanged for murder: if Tait could have been shown to be mad it might have
been possible to save him. Yet the really basic argument is whether or not
anyone should be hanged. Since it is obvious from the figures in States like
NSW which have abolished capital punishment that abolition does not lead
to more murders, the Victorian Government is not moved by such utili-
tarian ideas. It decided to hang Tait because his crime was such a mon-
strous one that killing him in retaliation seemed the only decent thing to
do. It believes, in other words, in an eye for an eye. That a Government
should base its public policy on such a primitive and basically vicious prin-
ciple leaves little to be said. One can only point out the facts and urge it
before it is absolutely too late to return to its earlier enlightened policy and
commute Tait’s sentence to life imprisonment.


THIS AUSTRALIA
RELIGION IN SCHOOLS
DR GOUGH
WANTS MORE
Despite "humanists, agnostics, atheists and,
I am afraid, Jews"
DR GOUGH
A Christian country?
ITHhe re-affirmation by the Anglican
1 Primate of Australia and Archbishop
of Sydney, Dr Gough, of his opposition
to vState Aid to church schools at last
week’s Anglican Synod meeting could
have surprised no one. Any bookie could
have laid odds-on that his opening address
would also contain a warning about in-
creased betting and gambling facilities,
extensions of hotel trading hours, etc.
But it is doubtful whether the Govern-
ment was expecting “a challenge to say
quite unequivocally that the education of
this State is to be a Christian education.”
Dr Gough gained some fame last year
with an attack on University philosophy
departments. This year he left them
alone, but told the Synod that the activi-
ties of a group called the Secular Educa-
tion Defence Committee was causing him
“greater concern” than gambling, liquor
hours extensions, etc.
The Archbishop told the Synod that
the “main objective of this group is to
stop all religious teaching in our State
schools other than that giv. by the min-
isters of the various churches in volun-
tary periods to children of their own
churches. It is significant that the mem-
bers of this group are mainly humanists,
agnostics, atheists and, strange and very
sad to say, Jews.”
His address went on to make it clear
that his Grace differed with those who de-
fined secular as “non-religious.” Dr
Gough said that the Public Instruction
Act of 1880 made it clear that the word
was used not in that sense but of “non-
sectarian,” quoting a section of the Act
which confines dogmatic or polemical
theology to the ministers’ time and also
citing from a speech by Sir Henry
Parkes to show the intent of the legisla-
tors.
The spokesman for the Secular Educa-
tion Defence Committee was quick to
reply that the Archbishop's definition was
not the accepted meaning of the word
“secular.”
A legal challenge, if one could be
made, would give a tangle of problems.
The Act is badly drafted and contains
odd ambiguities. For instance, any
atheist could challenge the present cus-
tom of bringing in several ministers, and
sometimes a Catholic priest, to look after
separate classes during a set period on
one day of the week. The relevant sec-
tion lays down that only one minister “of
any persuasion” can come in on any one
day.
Furthermore it could be argued that
Dr Gough’s appeal to the intent of the
legislature, although historically interest-
ing, would be without relevance to the
legal interpretation of the meaning of
“secular.”
The dispute has arisen out of the Scrip-
ture section of the 1959 Primary Social
Studies syllabus. This section is watered
down Protestant Christianity, and the
Secular Education Defence Committee
naturally sees it as a threat to secular
education.
The committee evolved out of the
Humanist Society, founded only a few
years ago to gather spirits who were not
attracted to the virtually moribund
Rationalist Association. The Humanist
Society, with a reputed 200-odd members,
has found it difficult to get going on a
good issue and has made no great impact
on Sydney.
The committee sent a deputation to the
Minister for Education, Mr Wetherell,
earlier this year. The Sydney Jewish
Board of Deputies has also protested
against the syllabus.
Whatever the state of the committee’s
campaign, Dr Gough made it clear that
he was in no mood for compromise on
the Churches’side. He called for a similar
provision to be made in the secondary
schools, to that existing in the primary
syllabus. The issue is clear, the Arch-
bishop said, “Do we or do we not want
Australia to be Christian?”
He called on the Government not to
give way. For good measure he
also urged the Government to arrange for
a daily act of Christian worship in all
State schools. The Archbishop then made
his challenge for an unequivocal state-
ment that “the education of this State is
to be a Christian education.” The Synod
applauded his statement that “nothing
less will do ... if we profess any longer
to be a Christian country.”
It must have been a little disconcerting
to State Cabinet to find yet another relig-
ious matter dumped on their plate. After
this a decision will have to be made
on whether Dr Gough and \e New South
Wales Council for Christian Education
will get their way and secondary school
Scripture teaching of some kind be intro-
duced outside the minister’s period.
RICHARD HALL
“P. J. ADAMS”
"CHEAP ASIAN LABOR"
What price building ships in Australia?
A fight between Ampol Petroleum and
the militant right-wing Marine
Stewards’ Union over the “Cheap Asian
Labor” issue threatens to lead not only
to one of the biggest national and inter-
national boycotts ever imposed on a
famous Australian company, but also to a
further setback in Australia’s ailing
ship-building industry. Members of the
ACTU sub-committee living in Sydney
are meeting this Thursday (October 18)
to discuss it. The issue is the manning of
Ampol’s new £3,090,000 tanker, the
“P. J. Adams”, by a 40-man Chinese
crew instead of by an Australian crew.
The 33,000 tons tanker was built at
BHP’s Whyalla shipyard with the assist-
ance of a £1,000,000 subsidy from the
Federal Government. Ampol points out
that it could have saved £700,000 by
having the ship built in overseas countries
and that they have “subsidised the Aus-
tralian ship-building industry by £700,-
000.” The general manager and director
of the firm, Mr. W. M. Leonard, claims
that: “Our order gave work to 800 skilled
and semi-skilled men for three years . . .
When the Whyalla yard was given
£1,000,000 subsidy, there was a written
agreement between the Federal Govern-


ment and Ampol that we could register
the tanker in London to enable us to hire
Asian seamen for her crew.”
Recent moves, not by the Communist-
dominated Seamen’s Union of Mr. Elliott
V. Elliott, nor by the ACTU, but by
the general secretary of the Marine
Stewards’ Union, Mr. W. MacDonald,
may frustrate Ampol’s plan to have the
“P.J. Adams” operating in November be-
tween Australia and oil centres in Borneo
and the Persian Gulf.
Believing that the ACTU and the Sea-
men’s Union were not “fair dinkum” on
the issue Mr. MacDonald, whose union
is affiliated to the seven million-strong
International Transport Federation, has
managed to get this body to place a
black ban in 70 countries on the “P.J.
Adams.” The effect of the ban will mean
that the “P. J. Adams” will not be able
to dock in some Asian ports, such as
Singapore and Hong Kong.
Mr Monk is extremely incensed that
one of the ACTU affiliated unions, the
Marine Stewards, went over his head
and asked the ITF to impose a black
ban. The President is claiming that if any-
one is to contact international affiliates
it must be the ACTU. In all probability
Mr MacDonald will receive a slap on the
wrist from the ACTU officers but it will
be too late to do anything about the ban.
Mr Monk is not very influential or popu-
lar with free international trade union
bodies and the chances are that Mr
MacDonald’s opinions in overseas circles
would carry more weight than either Mr
Monk's or ACTU officers’.
The question of shipping companies
employing cheap Asian labor as opposed
to the dearer Australian (or British) sea-
men has long been a sore point with Aus-
tralian and overseas trade union bodies. In
Hong Kong, a firm called Pacific Marine,
advertises to shipping companies that they
can supply “sufficient crew at all times”.
The labor is extraordinarily cheap and
where an Australian sailor would be paid
£7B a month for a 40-hour week, Pacific
Marine is willing to supply an Asian
sailor at about £l6 a month working up
to 70 hours a week. The firm will fly the
cheap labor crews to any port in the
world for the shipping companies.
One estimate gives Great Britain as
employing about 42,000 Asian seamen
working on ships in Asia, as well as
thousands in its large Merchant Fleet
which sometimes fly the flags of Ber-
muda, Canada and Hong Kong.
There is a strong possibility that the
ITF black ban will bring the cheap
labor question to a head not only in
Australia but with international trade
union bodies but strangely enough not
because of the ACTU or the Seamen’s
Union.
MUGCA
PARTIES
THE COUNTRY PARTY MOVES IN
Winning Tasmanian votes from Labor
npASMANiA is the only State that has
never had a Country Party; and the
recent denial by E. D. Mills, president of
the Tasmanian Farmers’ Federation, that
his Federation was at last sponsoring the
establishment of the Country Party in
Tasmania was sufficiently ambiguous to
confirm in many minds the belief that
the Federation is deeply involved in the
present flurry of Country Party activity
in the State.
Tasmania has always struck observers
as an ideal field for Country Party ex-
ploitation. Hobart holds only 30 per
cent of the State’s population, and small
farmers far outnumber big landowners.
The Tasmanian scene is distinctly rural.
The ground has on occasion been re-
connoitred, but the wide spread of the
Liberals into the farming community—
most of the party’s parliamentary mem-
bers are farmers or country townsmen
—has apparently deterred the scouts.
Moreover, they obviously accepted the
view that the party would require an
initial foothold in the State Parliament
—a sitting member who would be the
standard bearer in the succeeding elec-
tion. State election success would be the
springboard for assault on Federal divi-
sions.
Now, doubtless prodded by its ebbing
fortunes in N.S.W. and Victoria, the
party has again looked Tasmania over.
Two or even three of the five Federal
seats have a strong small-farmer com-
plexion and could conceivably be con-
verted to the Country Party. Two are
now Labor-held, and in them a C.P.
candidate might get a push from Liber-
als dispirited by successive defeats.
The ambitions of the party chiefs must
have been encouraged by the existence
of dissident Liberals, notably the former
parliamentary leader of the party, Wil-
liam Jackson, a farmer in Franklin elect-
orate. He has sat as an Independent
Liberal since breaking with the party
chiefs on questions of leadership and
control by the executive,
Mr. Jackson’s chances at the 1964
election look pretty bleak despite his
having been a poll-topper when party
leader. In Country Party colours he
should be a certainty. There is no pre-
sent prospect of his return to the Liberal
fold. But he very firmly rebuffed the
Country Party overtures.
The other Independent Liberal is W. C.
Hodgman, a Hobart barrister. As a city
man he would be outside Country Party
consideration for parliamentary leader-
MORAL REFORMERS
ffij&ulletu i
October 21, 1882
HThe Rev. J. C. Kirby wants to
throttle harlotry in his own style,
In reviewing the Kirby pamphlet, the
“S. M. Herald” smugly observes: “The
idea which Mr Kirby deems of vital
importance—it being his own (!)
is the establishment of a sort of Moral
Board, composed partly of ladies
(Oh!), to be appointed by the Gover-
nor, whose honorary duties should be
. . i ~ , ,
to act as guardians of all orphans under
21, to prosecute seducers, keep the
police up to the mark (!!), and direct
the treatment of infected persons in
proper hospitals. (!!!) This Moral
Board of clergymen and ladies will
have a nice variety of occupations.
Besides being foster-parents of all
orphans under 21, they will poke their
noses into every stink-pot, hunt down
the “masher , ventilate every scandal
that rumour bruits about the country,
egg on the police to “wholesome fun,”
and pronounce upon the latest recipes
for the treatment of syphilis. Could a
queerer farrago than this have been
compounded? Yet the “Herald” looks
upon this nauseous dish with a smile
°f swee t approval,
Mr Kirb Y’s scheme is to be carried
b Y ( * be extension of female re-
uSes > a ud the dissemination of social-
pu?ty P r ' nc 'P i , es by means °f meetings
o'f jj'j’ - t - ese , oc,a ut
Societies will, it is to be presumed,
have their tota , and partja] a F bstainers ;
a repentant haybag will swear off for
a mon th, a quarter of a year, according
to the strength of her sorrow, the viru-
lence of her disease, and the activity
of the ladies and clergymen of the
Moral Board.
The object of the Contagious
Disease Bill is to minimise its evil re-
suits—to quench its fatal fires. Yet
these benevolent clergymen won’t have
anything to do with that Bill, but want
to rule society by ladies’ committees
and moral boards.


.ship. However, there are farmer-Liberals
who might be tempted into the agrarian
party, and several leading farmers sit in
the Legislative Council as independ-
ents, because only Labor endorses Upper
House candidates. Less effective as par-
liamentary leaders than members of the
House of Assembly, they would never-
theless give the Country Party a start
Mr C. 11. Best, formerly a Liberal
MHA, and now MLC, was an obvious
target for the scouts. He said publicly
that he would be interested in the forma-
tion of the party in Tasmania, but he
would not accept leadership or even an
executive position. His health, he said,
ruled out the possibility.
He voiced a widely-held opinion when
he said: “I feel there is a substantial
group of people in both country and town
who now vote Labor who would vote
for the Country Party if it had can-
didates in the field.”
Analysis of election figures indicates
that rural Tasmania votes considerably
more strongly for Labor than do country
areas elsewhere in Australia. That is
where the Country Party could edge in.
In State elections, at which each of the
five Federal divisions returns seven mem-
bers on proportional representation, the
Country Party should have every chance
of taking at least four seats. As these
could be at the expense of the Labor
Party, the Liberals, no matter how they
might regret the entry of the Country
Party, would have every reason of ex-
pediency to applaud the newcomers. It
could mean their return after 28 years
in the wilderness.
Mr Mills and his Tasmanian Farmers’
Federation have been out of the public
eye but very much in the picture in the
talks and investigations. Mr Mills is a
leading pastoralist who has devoted an
abounding energy to widespread land de-
velopment. He flies himself back and
forth between his family’s properties, is
very well known and is strong and de-
cisive. He is almost certainly right in
the Country Party executive’s sights as a
candidate under their banner. But the
TFF is banned from party politics by
its constitution. Mr Mills dismissed this
in his statement: “It is definitely political
in that any party prepared to appreciate
the problems and act on behalf of the
rural community can expect the full sup-
port of members.”
Perhaps most intriguing in all the ac-
tivity is the utter silence of the Country
Party. Not one parliamentarian or offi-
cial of the party has been named as hav-
ing had any part in the protracted nego-
tiations. Even the promise of “dramatic
announcements” to come is made anony-
mously and at second-hand. Reporters
accustomed to treating the Caucus room
as though it were wired for sound have
found the Country Party security a new
r.nd baffling experience
POLITICS
REDISTRIBUTION POKER
The Coalition could be in danger
As I see it
J. McEWEN
Still afraid
A high class
A Po k e r
ga m e is cur-
rently under way in Canberra. The stakes
are large. Already on the table is elec-
toral advantage for either the Liberal,
Country or Labor Party at the next Fede-
ral general elections. Before the game
ends, the future of the Liberal-Country
Party Coalition Government could be in
hazard.
The electoral redistribution (made ne-
cessary by the last Commonwealth cen-
sus which revealed a population growth
and a further movement of the popula-
tion balance in favor of the cities as
against the country) provides the occa-
sion for the game. Prime Minister Men-
zies, Country Party Leader Jack Mc-
Ewen, and Labor Leader Arthur Calwell
are the “big note” players, but there are
other minor figures taking part in the
game and in a position to influence the
outcome and determine which of the
“big note” players will take out the pot.
As I see it, McEwen started the game
with the weakest cards. The recommen-
dations of the Electoral Commissioners,
tabled recently by Interior Minister Gor-
don Freeth in the House of Representa-
tives and awaiting Parliamentary con-
sideration, give future Country Party
prospects a bad knock. The recommen-
dations wipe out the Country Party
strongholds of Dawson in Queensland
and Gwydir in NSW. They turn Wide
Bay in Queensland, held by the Country
Party until the last Federal elections,
into a fairly safe Labor seat, and vir-
tually ensure that the CP’s Hugh Leslie
will be wiped out in Western Australia
and the CP Deputy Leader, Charley
Davidson, who as Postmaster-general
holds Dawson in the present Parliament,
will have to chance his arm in neighbor-
ing Capricornia, at least marginal from
the CP viewpoint.
McEwen’s great fear possibly not
yet completely assuaged must have
been that the Liberals and Labor would
combine to force the recommendations
upon the Country Party
For the sake of the electoral advan-
tage they get Labor estimates that on
1961 figures the Liberals have a five to
six seat advantage in the proposed redis-
tribution the Liberals might have
taken this attitude and risked the dam-
age that adoption of such an attitude
might have upon the coalition they had
with the Country Party.
In the long term, this might have bene-
fited Labor more than what it is now
proposing. A split in the Liberal-Coun-
try Party coalition far from a remote
possibility if feelings were sufficiently ex-
acerbated on this issue which for the
Country Party is almost a matter of life
or death would more than otfset poli-
tically and in votes gained the paper ad-
vantage the Liberals would get from hav-
ing the present redistribution recommen-
dations put through unchanged.
But Labor decided to play it differ-
ently. Separate meetings of NSW,
Queensland and Western Australian
Labor MHRs decided last week to re-
commend to the full Labor caucus op-
position to the redistribution proposals
in those three States. NSW decision was
the key one. NSW members are suffi-
ciently numerous in the Labor caucus to
need only modest backing from other
States which they will certainly get
to ensure caucus endorsement of the
NSW decision.
As I understand Labor thinking it goes
something like this—
# They will be supported in their op-
position to NSW redistribution proposals
by either Mr lan Allan, CP NSW, or
Mr David Drummond, CP NSW, or
both. Mr. Allan’s seat of Gwydir dis-
appears if the present redistribution pro-
posals are carried. Mr Allan might in
different circumstances be able to get
CP preselection and endorsement for
either Cowper (now Labor held but
traditionally a CP stronghold and liable
to revert to its former allegiance at the
next Federal elections), or New England,
the seat from which Mr Drummond pro-
poses to retire at the next elections. But
both seats are strongholds of the New
State movement, dedicated to maintain-
ing country representation and decentra-
lisation, and not likely to reward Mr
Allan if he votes for the abolition of a
Country Party electorate like Gwydir.
Mr Drummond is one of the founding


REID MURRA'
Registered First Mortgage Debenture Stock*
PAID-UP CAPITAL £7,000,000
Applications accepted only on forms attached to th«
Prospectus. Available from:
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 1924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William St., Adelaide 408 Collins St., Melb.
Members of Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.
REID MURRAY
GUARANTEED
by Reid Murray Holdings Ltd.
fathers of the Country Party, believes
that it is in the national interest to pro-
tect the Australian outback against com-
plete city domination, and holds to this
as a principle larger than uncritical loy-
alty to the policies or tactics of any
party. There are those in the CP who
believe that nobody, Mr. McEwen in-
cluded. could persuade him into voting
for the recommended redistribution.
® If either Allan or Drummond, or
both, vote with Labor against the NSW
redistribution and Labor has a full roll-
up on the day the vote is taken, the re-
distribution will be defeated as the Gov-
ernment has a floor majority of only one
in the House of Representatives and can-
not afford any defections.
• Once the NSW redistribution is de-
feated, Menzies will withdraw all the re-
distribution proposals, and the next Fede-
ral elections will be fought or the old
boundaries
• Labor will have a better chance of
wanning the next elections on these boun-
daries than the proposed new ones. Once
the elections are over, Labor could be in
charge of the redistribution, uninhibited,
as a one-party Government, by any clash
of interests within its ranks.
While this is the way Labor's mind is
moving on the issue I think Labor is
counting too heavily upon Menzies doing
nothing if the redistribution recommen-
dations are knocked over in the Parlia-
ment. Such a rejection does not affect
the existence of his Government. The
vote would not be regarded as a vital
one. While the Parliament cannot amend
the Electoral Commissioners’ recommen-
dations, it has the right to reject them,
and send them back for a further “look
see” accompanied, if it is deemed desir-
able, with an expression of Parliamen-
tary opinion.
Menzies, in such things a very proper
man, has no desire either to “gerry-
mander” or to give the public impres-
sion of seeking to “gerrymander”. But
if Labor backed by a couple of CP
breakaways defeats the redistribution
proposals, he cannot be accused of try-
ing to “gerrymander”. It will be Labor
and the CP breakaways who will in ef-
fect be instructing the Electoral Com-
missioners to have another look. And
Labor could be put in the politically em-
barrassing situation of appearing to argue
not against Country Party interests but
against rural interests.
Only a few cards have been played as
yet in this Canberra poker game between
the three parties. But there are already
sufficient indications to suggest that there
is going to be some fascinating finesses
and bluffs before the pot is finally taken
out by one of the competing players, or
the game ends with Menzies and Mc-
Ewen deciding to share what IS in the
centre.
ALAN REID


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
5A413,000.000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Around Melbourne
HEAVENS! CHANGES AT GEORGES?
Ane of our most beloved Melburnian
institutions, Georges is undergo-
ing change. Let us talk about Georges
which is the one store in Melbourne
that truly could be said to be of
world class. You could compare it,
perhaps, to Lord & Taylors in New
York or Harrods in London. The shop
assistants bow stiffly from the waist
and have the polish of head waiters.
They remember names. Georges
never has anything quite so distasteful
as a sale and the whole establishment
is adored by the matrons of Toorak.
Even though it has been taken over
by Cox Bros, it retains its same old
charm. But something remarkable has
happened; at the end of this month
Georges is opening a men’s-wear
department.
Perhaps you are unable to appre-
ciate the enormity of this. Georges in
Collins Street, has been exclusively a
ladies’ store for 82 years. This turn-
about is, at the very least, the equiva-
lent of opening a croquet lawn for
ladies at the back of the Melbourne
Club. There are subtle reasons for it,
of course, and a good one is that
its a fine way of making money.
The directors point out that the
women buy 80 per cent, of all men’s
mercery. They buy the socks, the
shirts, the ties, the underpants of the
family, and what’s more 30 per cent,
of all wives are present when their
husbands buy the suits. You may
think the other 80 per cent, are
splendid independent fellows, but
many of them are just crafty, they
take their suits home on apro ... just
to make sure that mother agrees with
their own splendid taste.
To find out exactly what Georges
would do for mankind your pioneer
called on the men’s-wear supervisor,
Mr Horrie Taafe. He gave me a quick
resume on what men would be wear-
ing in 1963. The famished, pencil thin
look would be out. Lapels would be a
trifle wider, trousers not so narrow,
waists would be pinched in a little and
we would be wearing double vents
instead of single. As for pointy shoes,
Heavens no. Mr Taafe said Australia
was the last place in the world where
this curious custom of skin-tight pants
and pointed shoes still applied. Every-
where in the US and on the Continent,
gentlemen were now wearing the
rounded square toe.
So we adjourned to the new men’s
department in the century old base-
ment of the main store. Mr Taafe
explained that it was to have the at-
mosphere of a plush but refined men’s
club. There would be a thick carpet on
the floor and an Etruscan frieze
around the wall. There weald be
chairs, oh yes, there would be large
comfortable chairs. Gentlemen or
ladies would be encouraged to sit
down and the goods would be shown
to them. One could picture the old
style scene of a man leisurely choosing
his outfit for India. I mentioned the
modern Bourke St::et system of self
service and Mr Taafe quickly gave
the impression this was something
that should never happen at Georges.
He has been on a six months world
tour, buying everything from goods
that look straight from Playboy to
suits from Italy. There were morning
suits lined up by the dozen all ready
for the coming Melbourne Cup at £6O.
There were delicious crimson lined
opera cloaks, real svengali jobs, 45
guineas: hand-made mohair suits, 50
guineas, vicuna coats, £250: cashmere
coats, £9O. Then there were lovely,
itty bitty, male bikinis that came from
the South of France, 35/- to 50/-.
Mr Taafe felt that one could wear
these at a private swimming pool.
Ah yes, there were beautiful Italian
handkerchiefs with a hand-rolled edge,
Bermuda shorts specially designed for
the spreading stomach, and, best of
all, honeymoo.. pyjama sets. These
were of an exquisite pale yellow cotton
with a striped edge and there was a
dressing gown to match. Undoubtedly
these were chosen by 80 per cent, of
fiancees.
One could go on there were
slippers made of fighting seal skin,
old Rugby ties, old RN ties, racing
umbrellas with a built-in gold pencil
but I think you would have liked the
gift department. There were com-
passes, pewter tankards, tobacco jars
and coach lamps. Coach lamps for the
den are right in this year. Then there
was a splendid box of solid walnut.
On the front were leather bound
volumes of Debrett’s Peerage, Burke’s
Landed Gentry, Whitaker’s Almanac,
Bradshaw, and Lempriere’s classical
dictionary . . . just the essentials. But
the books were fakes. Behind them
were three crystal decanters and six
glasses—discreet survival kit for the
office. Price: 95 guineas.
And finally there were fair dinkurn,
bog oak shillelaghs all imported from
Ireland. They were as ugly as sin and
as masculine as all hell and I bet
these too will be purchased 80 per
cent, by women.
BATMAN


SP BETTING
THE SECRET NAMES
Scorching the veneer panels
A fter a long period of peace the NSW
Royal Commission into off-course
betting has showed signs of livening up
over the last few weeks.
When the Commission adjourned last
week to allow the Royal Commissioner,
Mr Justice Kinsella, to prepare for a
New Zealand tour to look at the Totali-
sator Agency Board Agency off-course
betting system, the presentation of formal
cases, except for the NSW Council of
Churches’ anti-gambling case had been
just about completed.
As the case for the legalisation of off
course bookmakers, presented on be-
half of the Racing Commission Agents
Association, their organisation, had un-
folded there were no sensations.
It was obvious that many of the big
operators had been scared off giving
evidence by the failure of their counsel,
Mr Eric Miller, QC, to secure anonymity.
Only one big operator gave evidence, Mr
Williams, of the old-established (70
years) firm of Hackett and Williams and
he had retired some years previously.
It was only with the appearance of
Claude William McCarthy, of the upper
middle-class Sydney suburb of Castlecrag,
that the SP bookmakers’ _asc began to
take on substance. Mr McCarthy is
secretary of the Racing Commission
Agents’ Association and where other of
the Association’s witnesses had been
vague, he brought facts and figures to
the Commission. He estimated a total
illegal turnover of £260 million a year,
based on figures supplied by his mem-
bers, made up of £154 million in phone
betting and the rest i; cash shops. He
argued for a fair compromise between
the interests of the racing clubs and the
desires of the punters.
Mr McCarthy had been impressive but
his down-fall came when he spoke of
four members of his Association who had
a turnover of more than £1 million a
year and were also licensed bookmakers.
The Royal Commissioner, Mr Justice
Kinsella, following the same custom as
with a previous witness (the chairman of
the Paddock Bookmakers’ Association)
asked Mr McCarthy to write the names
of the bookmakers involved down on a
piece of paper for the Judge alone.
Then the argument on privilege began.
Three hours later, Mr Miller rested.
His argument that Mr McCarthy was
entitled to reject the Royal Commission-
er’s request rested on two grounds; the
first, that the relationship of Mr Mc-
Carthy, as secretary to the members of
his Association was one of privilege,
citing the relationship of client and
counsel and the right of a statutory cor-
poration involved in a legal case to refuse
to deliver documents; the second, that
the request for the names of on-course
bookmakers was not relevant because the
terms of the Commission were con-
cerned with off-course bookmaking.
Mr Justice Kinsella ruled that Mr Mc-
Carthy had to deliver the names, com-
menting that Mr Miller had committed
the “fundamental fallacy” of arguing as
though a Royal Commission worked
under the same rules as a court of law.
Mr McCarthy had not helped his case
by a rambling statement suggesting that
Mr Justice Kinsella might lose the names
given to him in confidence. When the
Commissioner, after his ruling, renewed
the request, Mr McCarthy “with the
utmost respect” rejected it because he
had given his word. After a brief silence
Mr Justice Kinsella said he would impose
neither fine nor gaol, but ordered Mr Mc-
Carthy from the court and announced he
would disregard all evidence given by
him as a witness.
Then the Commissioner turned to Mr
Miller, and with a comment that the
matter had been forced into the open,
called upon Mr Miller to produce the full
register of the members of the Associ-
ation. There was more argument in the
course of which Mr Miller said he had
told a meeting of the illegal bookmakers
that their names would be retained in
confidence, and added that he did not
now know the whereabouts of the
register.
Finally, an offer by Mr Miller to call
a general meeting of the Association to
consider the matter was agreed to and
on that basis Mr Miller continued to
appear at the Commission.
The whole involved argument about
privilege was punctuated by clashes be-
tween Mr Meares and Mr Miller, which,
finally, culminated in a comment from
the Royal Commissioner that “if we were
proceeding in a civilised fashion there
would be none of this friction and irrita-
tion” and a general reprimand against
disorderly conduct from counsel.
With the Commission nearly over the
temperature around the Bar Table was
hot enough to scorch the veneer panels
of the courtroom. The major part of the
case for the licensing of off-course book-
makers had been disallowed and the posi-
tion of their advocate Mr Miller was de-
pendent on what he would have to say,
when the Commission resumed, on the
controversial register of membership of
the Racing Commission Agents Associa-
tion.
. . . AND PLAYFORD'S DECISION
No TAB system for Adelaide
fTTm SA Government has rejected a pro-
"*■ posal to set up an off-course totali-
sator system, but has approved a plan for
betting shops in country towns.
The Government’s rejection, based on
a Betting Control Board report, followed
the line that a Totalisator Agency Board
system would be too expensive, too diffi-
cult to run and probably not beneficial
any way. In addition, it was felt that the
legislation which gave the BCB almost
complete authority over off-course bet-
ting had not been adequately tried.
Not so, said the racing men. Victoria’s
example has shown that TAB is both pos-
sible and profitable. The Victorian Gov-
ernment reaped £4 million from the first
year’s operation of TAB, and racing
clubs, with their share, improved ameni-
ties and increased prize money. More
and more top SA horses are going inter-
state to race for bigger prizes, and SA
attendances are failing. TAB, say the
racing clubs, will boost the game. It will
also tread heavily on the toes of SP book-
makers, who have fat wallets but give
nothing to the Government or racing
clubs.
The Government is adamant, however,
and like lotteries, off-course betting in
SA will remain illegal.
The alternative suggested by the Gov-
ernment “betting offices” in country
towns is considered a poor second
best. Several country towns have applied
or are considering applying to the BCB
for these “betting offices”, and each ap-
plication will be subjected to a full-scale
enquiry to consider its merits. The bet-
ting shops will only be open on the morn-
ing of races, and will close before the
first race. These shops may give the
local SP man a bit of a jolt, but they
are unlikely to seriously hamper his busi-
ness. They are certainly not as good as
a TAB system.
The racing fraternity is far from satis-
fied, and announced last week that it
would ask the Premier to allow racing
clubs to run an off-course betting system
themselves. Although the Speaker, Mr
Stott, is president of the Racehorse Own-
ers’ Association, the move is unlikely to
have any success.


BIG MONEY LOSERS - 1962
1. it all began in November 7960
By DON HENDERSON
The balloon went up on the Austra-
lian economic boom just two years
ago, when, to the knowing nods of
some and to the anguished disbelief of
others, Treasurer Holt, overnight, bet
heavily on stability at the expense of
speculative development. On November
15, 1960, the Federal Government voiced
its “boom bursting” measures and in so
doing put a whole new complexion on
Australia's world of business.
In so doing the Government planted
the seeds for some of the biggest confi-
dence shattering losses experienced in
Australia, a nation accustomed to profit
on everything.
On the surface, 1960, or the earlier
half of it, was a good year. Jobs were
easy—too easy—to get, wages were
moving higher, money was freely moving
around (although steadily losing value
again)’, and record profits were a matter
of course. It was the year that motor car
sales averaged a remarkable 25,863 a
month.
Australians felt prosperous, looked
prosperous, but, we were told, these feel-
ings were delusions. The “bubble” would
burst, most assuredly. Too much money
was being spent producing too few goods,
wages and material costs were creating a
situation where Australian goods could
not possibly compete on local Australian
markets with imported goods, let alone
challenge for export markets, and no one
cared anyhow.
It was, indeed, a dangerous situation.
But warnings from Melbourne’s Stani-
forth Ricketson, Sydney’s John Marks,
the Commonwealth Bank’s Dr Coombs
and others went unheard or unheeded as
the economy’s tempo built up to a scale
vaguely reminiscent to the older gener-
ation of the Roaring Twenties.
Everyone was buying everything on
credit. “Just sign on the line” was the
catchphrase of selling. Refrigerators, tele-
vision sets, cars, washing machines, and
finally, land, boomed. Share prices moved
higher without great thought of intrinsic
values. The new investors, attracted by
profits that were being made forgot one
axiom—“what goes up must come down.”
The first glimmer that something was
radically wrong with the economy came
first when imports shot to record heights
with the lifting of all restrictions earlier
that fateful year. This was not an easy
influence to spot at the time. But in re-
trospect was, indeed, a basic indicator to
over-fast development.
The second and most important indica-
tor came from the banking figures. Here
was the first real sign that the fringe of
the monetary system, the public, had be-
come the vortex. The controllable and
controlled system —the banks —lost in-
fluence as financiers and the like took
charge of the money flow, offering high
interest rates to attract funds away from
Government control.
Looking back, the Government made
an error in 1960 in not competing with
the “fringe”, as Mr. Menzies so fondly
called the institutions not controllable be-
cause of Constitutional difficulties, by his
or any Government. It is reasonable to
ponder the different situation which may
have arisen if the Government had lifted
the official interest rate structure to a
high level in, say, May 1960.
tpOR it was here that the most damage
was done to confidence in the eco-
nomy; it was in borrowing and lending
in this fringe that the big losers of this
year came to grief; and it was because
of the need to adopt other measures —
more stringent measures —rather than use
interest rates, that caused anguish to the
economy as a whole.
Faced with a similar situation, England
would promptly lift its remarkably effect-
ive Bank rate by a large lump and by
so doing “dampen down” business invest-
ment. It is purely a matter of the price
of money. Control the cost of money and
you control the demand and supply of it.
Again showing what has become a
traditional reluctance to use a monetary
weapon, the Australian Government on
November 15, 1960, invoked a series of
measures aimed at taking the bloom off
the speculative boom by reducing the
demand for products or services of that
section of business. Hardly subtle, the
measures used had a similar effect to


a pair of knuckledusters in a street brawl.
The most effective of these measures
was to limit to a quota the right of
companies to charge the interest paid on
borrowings as a deduction from taxable
income. This machinery effectively stop-
ped, in a stride, the flow of funds into
land and buildings, and all other forms of
long-term borrowing.
It was a short-lived affair. The limita-
tion which had had an altogether too
restraining impact on corporate opera-
tions, vanished from the scene at the end
of June 1961. While part of the busi-
ness scene, however, this particular piece
of legislation made a lasting impression
on some of the corporate borrowers, as
we will point out later.
With the speculative “boom” busted, it
was only a matter of time before spectac-
ular losses were to come to hand. It
speaks well for Australian management
that losses were not more widespread
than they have proved to be.
HThe first to crack did so quickly; and
would have done so sooner or later
anyhow. In those areas wherein the
sometimes legal but largely confidence
trickery of the vending machine ventures
existed, business fell apart quickly.
The public had been warned at least
once a week by newspaper commenta-
tors of the dangers inherent in the type
of operation then being conducted by the
likes of International Vending Machines
Pty Ltd and North American Vending
in Melbourne. With the lure of up to 20
per cent, interest offered by these people,
however, the public largely ignored the
warnings. When the whole thing blew up
some £6 million of investors’ money was
gone, although in the Victorian case it
was not forgotten.
Retribution in the North American
case was by way of jail sentences for
some of its promoters.
The modus operandi of IVM—one of
the top losers of public money in recent
years—pointed to eventual failure. The
drying up of money was purely the
accelerator.
The public, gullible as ever, purchased
machines worth, say, £2O (if they existed
anyhow), for, say, £lOO each with the
guaranteed return on each machine of
£2O a year. Of course, the annual £2O
came from the original £lOO.
On original costs, these machines would
have to have earned 100 per cent, a year
to justify 20 per cent, on the highly
inflated cost to investors. It would be an
unwise investor who would invite en
masse subscription to an annual 100 per
cent profit earner. The high interest rate
should have caused suspicion in the very
first instance.
Like as not, these machines barely
earned their keep, while new investors
were attracted to the venture the old in-
vestor could get his annual 20 per cent.
The day came, then, when there were
no new investors and, consequently, no 20
per cents.
Several other highly speculative ven-
tures mainly involving grandiose real
estate developments also crumpled
quickly as money sources vanished. In
Sydney, particularly, the names involved
in these ventures were to come to light
at a later stage when the State Govern-
ment decided to investigate the failure of
certain borrowers from the public.
Early in 1961 the bigger chickens had
not yet come home to roost. Sydney
Guarantee Corporation was exhibiting
clear signs of disaster, but the bulk of
the public investors in unsecured loans
to long-term lenders failed to clearly see
the dangers of “borrowing short and
lending long.”
It was in early 1961 during the
“squeeze” that Latec Investments Ltd,
later to become more famous, was still
attracting large sums of money in un-
secured form from the lay public. Pro-
fessional warnings were again disregarded.
A Plaintive Appeal
In one plaintive appeal for more funds
to aid its now tight liquid position, Latec
attempted the promotion of a subsidiary
called Trans-Continents Holdings Ltd,
seeking to borrow a cool £1,000,000 from
the public.
Published motives aside, it could be
suggested that the company was framed
purely to provide funds for the Latec
group as a whole; a scheme which Stanley
Korman employed when money was
needed in his empire, as we will see later.
The result of Trans-Continents
approach is neither here nor there (it
failed to attract anything like £1 million).
What is of note is the appeal by the then
boss of Latec, Mr Charles L. Cattell —a
name which crops up elsewhere among
the list of money losers.
On February 27, 1961 Mr Cattell
wrote:
“It has long been apparent to the
directors of Latec Investments Limit-
ed that private enterprise must play
a large part in financing the future
of Australia. Not only is there a cry-
ing need for housing and the expan-
sion of industry at the present time,
but as this country of ours expands,
the matter will become increasingly
urgent. Australia is in continuous need
of new population, new ideas and new
industry. In this chaotic world in
which we live, our Commonwealth of
Communities presents one of the few
images of stability still left.
“Large parts of the world are being
torn asunder, sometimes through false
ideologies, sometimes through nation-
alism and in many cases, poverty. All
these various elements supply a pool
of much-needed potential immigrants,
thus adding to the rich and vital herit-
age handed down to us by our fore-
fathers.
“With this in mind, and the fact
that our company has now reached
the stage where we are in a position to
play our role in Australia’s future, we
have decided to sponsor the formation
of Trans-Continents Holdings Limited
which, whilst encouraging the people
to save, will in its turn provide for not
only housing needs in the future, but
also the continued expansion of in-
dustry and thus for the creation of
new employment. The sound growth
of our company which can be ob-
served in other parts of this pro-
spectus will, I am sure, provide the
necessary security.
“By forming Trans - Continents
Holdings Limited, we shall be helping
people to help themselves, and in so
doing, our depositors and clients may
say, proudly, as Australians, ‘My
Children Shall Inherit The Earth’.”
Far from inheriting the earth for his
flock, Mr. Cattell’s Latec was even then
losing investors’ funds hand over fist;
with losses to total up to £5 million
before another 18 months had gone by.
But, again, it would be wrong to lay
Latec’s losses at the feet of the Austra-
lian economy. The chill wind of the
economy found Latec’s basic bad business
out. It, again, would have come to light
eventually anyhow.
The Latec failure is not a complete
one, yet; But unsecured investors, also
in this case attracted by high interest
rates as well as a home town (New-
castle) “success” story, seem certain to
lose heavily.
The Latec Debacle
The Latec debacle is a direct result
of bad paper written on hire purchase
and business finance operations. In the
carefree 1960’5, Latec apparently over-
loaned on much of its business; lending,
it is said, up to twice the value of certain
purchases.
Latec, of course, has gone on to
achieve fame under new management
headed by Sydney solicitor Mr. P. A.
Malouf. To Mr. Malouf must go the
dubious honor of discovering the loss
and therefore he heads the list of money
losers in 1962. Part of this fame is that
Latec was the spur to State Government
investigation of the “free and easy”
public borrowers that have failed. It, of
course, remains to be seen how effective
such enquiries will be.
It was the right climate in early 1961
for delusions on the part of some manage-
ments that they could hide the difficult
period which it is now obvious they were
undergoing and escape discovery in the
economic recovery. It was unfortunate for
these money losers that the recovery was
too slow.
£ Next Week: The land boom
bust L. J. Hooker, S. Korman,
and others.


SENSE ABOUT DEFENCE
National Service could impair our Defence Efficiency
By GEOFFREY WILMOT
The nineteenth century general bes-
triding a cannon was singularly
appropriate as an illustration of
Ek Dum’s article “Defence and In-
vasion” in last week’s Bulletin.
This article has for its central propos-
ition a truth that many Australians are
belatedly beginning to realise namely
that our defences are in a sorry state.
But when it comes to analysing w'hat is
wrong the author is carried away by a
wave of nostalgia for the last war but
tW'O.
Briefly his thesis is that the Govern-
ment has based its defence policy on
collective security to the detriment of
home security; and that the principal
way in which home security has been
jeopardised is by the abolition of
National Service.
As the present article aims to show,
this thesis is fallacious on both counts.
First, collective security, far from being
detrimental to home security is the pre-
requisite of it. Secondly, National Ser-
vice, far from being necessary to our
defence, would in modern conditions
impair its efficiency.
In formulating defence policy a gov-
ernment and its military advisers have
first to decide what is the most likely
threat. One cannot arm against every
possibility least of all in a continent
whose total population is smaller than,
for example, the single city of Tokyo.
The most imminent threat has seem-
ed for some years to be not so much
a global war as a limited w’ar in one
of the trouble spots of south east Asia.
A global w ? ar between the major pow'ers
using nuclear weapons has seemed less
likely because of the obvious reluctance
of everyone to release destruction on
this scale, and because Communist policy
has demonstrably been to make ter-
ritorial gains by the safer method of a
nibbling subversion, never quite drastic
enough to draw nuclear fire from the
Americans.
Now the main area for this nibbling
subversion has been south east Asia. If
this falls to the Communists Australia
will be frighteningly exposed.
The current defence programme has
therefore been based on our being pre-
pared to fight, or to give assistance short
of W'ar, to prevent further encroach-
ment. As things have turned out, Laos
has been partly nibbled aw'ay while we
and our allies in the South East Asia
Treaty Organisation w'ere talking about
it. But we could still be involved in a
war over South Vietnam.
The Government has also assumed
that in such a limited war we should not
be without allies. It has worked hard to
secure them.
Australia has its traditional alliance
with Britain and New Zealand, w-hich
requires no formal treaty; the South
East Asia Treaty Organisation, which is
admittedly frayed by now because its
members have such differing interests in
the area; and finally the ANZUS treaty,
W'hich is a pledge of mutual assistance
against aggression by the United States,
Australia and New Zealand.
Through these alliances the Govern-
ment has sought to cover most of the
‘‘limited” situations that might arise.
An exception was trouble over West
New Guinea. In its anxiety not to
offend the Indonesians, Australia has
made no attempt to get that territory
included in any of these collective ar-
rangements.
In the light of what has happened it is
arguable that w'e should either have
pressed the Americans and the British to
support the status quo, or else pressed
the Dutch to give up the place years
ago. While we were sitting on the fence
our nearest neighbor has become a con-
siderable military power.
Now to sum up the argument so far,
the first of the two propositions to be
proved was that collective security is the
prerequisite of home security. This is so
for the following reasons.
Firstly if south east Asia falls to the
Communists Australia will be more vul-
nerable to the very invasion that Ek
Dum has in mind.
Secondly our main safeguard against
the invasion of the Australian mainland
is the Anzus treaty. (In theory it also
covers Papua-New Guinea as Sir Gar-
field Barw'ick keeps reminding us. But
who can seriously imagine the Ameri-
cans helping a white colonial power
against an indigenous rising, even if this
were helped by the Indonesians?) Even
in protecting the mainland the United
States will feel no obligation to fight our
battles unless we are prepared to help
in the common cause, and to help on
an adequate scale.
To say this is not to say that w'e are
doing enough, either to keep Cornmu-
nism in Asia at bay or to imbue the
United States with a moral obligation to
help us in time of trouble. Those are
quite different questions.
All that this article tries to show is
that it would be madness to base Aus-
tralian defence policy on a lone stand
in the last ditch against an unknown
invader who so far is not even in sight.
This is what Ek Dum has in mind,
however, when he urges that every Aus-
tralian man should be given some basic
military training. His words conjure up
a vision of guerrillas in the gum forests
and a lone rifleman on every headland.
It is a vision that could become a
reality in the only circumstances in
which an invasion of the Australian
mainland is conceivable, namely in the
course of a global war.
If the United States, Britain and
Russia were fully occupied in reducing
each other to radioactive rubble, they
would not spare a thought for Australia.
Indeed it is worse than Ek Dum thinks,
since he wrongly assumes that the
Woomera rocket range has some strategic
importance to them.
Whether, if we were fighting alone, Ek
Dum’s infantry could repel an invader
would depend on who the invader was.
But it must be remembered that the
PBI, whose weight of numbers and
whose gallantry was decisive in the first
world war, has greatly shrunk in im-
portance with the development of
modern weapons. In every modern army
it is a much diminished component and
instead there is an ever-increasing pro-
portion of highly trained technicians.
How much use would the half-trained
militiaman be against the Chinese who
not only have the numbers but will soon
have the bomb? How much use even
against Indonesian invaders, if the latter
had learned to use those new Russian
weapons that won a victory in West
New Guinea before they had even been
delivered? The militiaman might help to
repel infiltrators in the jungles of New
Guinea. But the regular army, which
(Ek Dum does not seem to realise) is
now trained in jungle warfare, ought to
handle that problem, without the reim-
position of National Service.
National Service was abolished be-
cause it was very costly for a very small
return. For the sake of producing a large
number of men who could half remem-
ber how to handle a rifle and who would
be of limited use in modern war, it used
up a large part of the army’s vote. It
also kept the skilled professionals busy
on training and thereby prevented them
from being ready for active service
themselves.
In any future war there would no time
for retraining and regrouping. It would-
be fought by the professionals with the
weapons they have at the time.


Here $ s the money-making way to
store FEED OATS until you need them
BBBBS
Xx : : x;:
m
assess
V: »
i:ws
gw**#
mm
: I
Wm
m
II
y:
Two 2,000 bushel Lysaght AH Purpose Silos installed at Blayney , N.S.IV.. for the storage of feed oats.
ILYSAGHT
AMERICAN TYPE FLAT FLOOR SYSTEM
* Patent Pending
No. 55007/59
mm
m
LYSAGHT VERTICAL
AUGERS
FOR FAST FILLING
Why go to the cost of expen-
sive earth ramps for filling
silos when for about £lOO
you can do it faster, more
easily and more efficiently
with a Lysaght Vertical Auger.
There is one to suit all
Lysaght Silos in the 1,200
bushel to 3,700 bushel range.
Operates by flat belt drive
from tractor. Exceptionally
easy to assemble. Fills a Silo
battery from one position.
Prices £97, £lO9, £ll6.
(F.O.R. Newcastle.)
There are recorded cases where oats have been stored in Lysaght Silos
for 8 and 9 years then brought out when needed and when prices
were at their peak. There are also cases where Lysaght Silos, used in
this way, have shown their owners a better financial return than wool!
That is why more and more farmers are building up substantial
batteries of Lysaght All Purpose Silos, recognising them as one of the
soundest and most practical investments available today . . .
• Fu/I-size “walk-in ” door (silos from 1,200 bushels upwards ) enables
silos to be emptied and cleaned quickly and effortlessly.
• Centre and side filling holes complete with hinged lids and positive
fastenings.
• Fully rodent-proof construction.
• Easier , faster, cheaper erection.
• Vertically rigidised walls and 6-ply horizontal ribs for added strength.
• Robust positive-action bagging outlet complete with quick-release bag
holder and steel hood.
• Auger Chute in bottom bulkhead behind the door.
: ~ itiui a UUUI . I I ILC lIILIUU cs iieei
floor.
Post coupon now for complete details to: R
John Lysaght (Australia) Limited
(C'ty) ~
Please send me full details of the complete range of Lysaght Silos and
Vertical Grain Augers.
NAME.
NAME OF PROPERTY..
ROUTE OR RMB N 0...
DISTRICT STATE
— i
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
Offices in Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
and Fremantle.
Manufactured by: John Lysaght (Australia) Limited, Special Products
Division, Newcastle Works, Newcastle, N.S.W.
57CG


OUT AND ABOUT j
"PSYCHOPATHIC POET"
Is Ned Kelly ”closely allied to the tough, undeceived working-
class heroes of the contemporary British cinema?"
By CHARLES HIGHAM
“tfE’s a wonderful a wonderful
—psychopathic poet!” Karel Reisz,
the Czech-English director who made his
reputation with “Saturday Night and
Sunday Morning’’ (1960) and who is cur-
rently visiting Australia, was talking
about the central figure of his new pro-
duction, “Ned Kelly”, to be shot in
Victoria early next year, with Albert
Finney as Ned and a supporting cast to
be drawn largely from local actors. The
screenplay has been written by David
Storey, the young author of a novel about
professional football, “The Sporting
Life”, which Karel Reisz and Lindsay
Anderson have just finished filming.
For the past year, Reisz —a taut, dark
man who frowns deeply even when he’s
smiling has been reading everything
available on Kelly: he finds most of the
books very poor (“schoolmasterish” was
the word he used), quite missing the
poetry and excitement of the saga. Only,
Reisz feels, in Kelly’s own writings
especially in the celebrated Jerilderie
letter does one get a clear picture of
this tormented visionary’s character.
I wondered if Finney wouldn’t be too
phlegmatic, too stolid and too English
to play this passionate and romantic
Irishman as conceived by Reisz and
Storey. Reisz reassured me: Finney had
shown, in his performances in “Billy
Liar”, and as John Osborne’s Luther, on
the London stage, a much greater range
than had been revealed by his admirable,
but necessarily limited, role in “Saturday
Night and Sunday Morning”.
it was Finney who wanted to play
Ned Kelly, and had conceived the whole
idea of making the film. No one else had
been considered for the part, and
Columbia were financing on the under-
standing that he did it.
Reisz started as a film critic: a mem-
ber of a brilliant group of writers in-
cluding Lindsay Anderson and Gavin
Lambert. Anderson and Lambert co-
edited “Sequence”, and then Lambert
took over the editorship of the world’s
leading film periodical, “Sight and
Sound”, followed by Penelope Houston
in 1956. Lambert went to Hollywood,
where he has worked for Nicholas Ray
and Jerry Wald, and has written a
striking collection of stories, “The Slide
Area”, under the influence of his friend
Christopher Isherwood.
Whereas Lambert is obviously fascin-
ated by the pretensions, the idiocies and
the oddities of Hollywood as Dream
Factory, Anderson and Reisz have been
bent on introducing truthfulness to the
British cinema, on coming to grips with
the harsh realities of contemporary
England.
One may hope, in Reisz’s handling of
the Kelly story, for penetrating ruthless-
ness of observation, his won’t be a
glamorised outback, like Lewis Miles-
tone’s in “Kangaroo”, or Zinnemann’s in
“The Sundowners”. The squalor, terror
and desperation, the physical suffering of
outlawry will no doubt be conveyed in
his direction.
Apart from the finding of suitable
locations (in which Frank Ciune is prov-
ing helpful), Reisz has been faced with
a major problem in drawing together a
sprawling story into a degree of coher-
ence. He and Storey have been forced
to invent episodes to cover the unex-
plained 16 months between February,
1879, and June, 1880, when the Kelly
gang went into hiding: this presented an
opportunity to convey the agony of
Kelly’s loneliness, much as Bunuel did
in his version of “Robinson Crusoe”.
The script's overall purpose is to show
the change of mood in the successive
events of the story, from the swagger
and glory of the Euroa National Bank
raid to the folly and surrender at Glen-
rowan.
One hopes, too, that the essential
Irish aspects of the story will come
through strongly: Kelly’s bitter resent-
ment of the British because his father
was kicked out of Ireland for something
pompously called an “agrarian offence”;
the relationship with the Fenians, and
the mass anti-Irish feeling that existed
after O’Farrell’s attempt to kill the Duke
of Edinburgh; the interesting tension be-
tween the Irish police and the Irish
criminal, Kelly hating them for assuming
their uniform, despising their jobs (“the
meanest billet in the world”).
Above all, of course, the challenge to
scriptwriter and director will come at
Glenrowan itself, when Kelly returned
to join his companions after what one
assumes to have been a titanic crisis of
conscience.
Certainly, in his Irish contempt for
English pomp, his cock-snooking at
dreary conventions, his passions for
greatness, Kelly is closely allied to the
tough, undeceived working-class heroes
of the contemporary British cinema
Reisz and Lindsay Anderson fought so
hard to bring to birth.
PROPAGATION OF THE FAITH
The mills of God grind slowly yet they grind exceedingly
efficiently
By MURRAY KEMPTON
The American Institute of Manage-
ment, an expression of the
national religion, has published
the latest of its periodic audits of the
efficiency of the Catholic Church.
The Vatican attains a rating of 9,010
out of a possible 10,000 points on AlM’s
management evaluation scale. The
American Telephone and Telegraph
Company, as summum bonum of the
Institute’s faith, is a mere 510 points
higher, an advantage owed in part to the
Institute’s estimate that the telephone
company’s earnings are healthier and its
prospects for expansion brighter than
the Church’s.
The Church is the oldest religion and
American efficiency the newest to com-
mand a portion of the faith of Western
mankind. The AlM’s study of the Vati-
can turns up questions unexpectedly
comforting to those sceptics who might
regard both as superstitions and only
one as worthy of the respect due a
superstition which has proved powers
of survival.


For example, if the Vatican is divinely
inspired, why isn’t it as well run as the
telephone company? But, then, if it is not
divinely inspired, why is it run, even ac-
cording to modern prejudices, almost as
well as the telephone company, even
though none of its princes is a graduate
of an American executive training
school?
For the Church turns out to function
and well with no regard at all for the
prescriptions of modern management
analysis.
The Institute points out that the
Church has neglected the executive po-
tential of that middle class which rules
every other institution in Western civilisa-
tion. “The bishops and the cardinals are
too frequently either prince or pauper in
origin.”
The Sacred College is an instrument
peculiarly at war with progressive cor-
porate development. “The present regula-
tions regarding the Cardinalate and papal
election can elevate rascals in as great
number as men of extraordinary spiritual
v/orth. It is shown by the record.
“What concerns us most is the advan-
ced age of cardinals and the fact that
they so largely seem to represent an Ita-
lian clique that perhaps thinks more in
terms of a restoration of the Holy
Roman Empire than a strong episcopate
in the provinces. In other words, we
wonder if the cardinals sometimes do not
look backwards more than forwards in
business matters that require progressive
attitudes. Such as depreciation reserves
for instance.”
The notion that the Lord will provide
is an unsound management principle. The
cardinals, from parochialism, invest too
much of the property in Italian enter-
prises. “Few important corporations, in
America or elsewhere, list the Church
among their large stockholders.”
The Institute for Pious Works, or Vati-
can Bank, is large and diversified, but
does little to attract customers. The
Church’s public relations would be im-
proved if it would issue financial reports.
It has not learned, as American corpora-
tions have, to avoid doctrinal intrusions
into public affairs. Its sales programme
shows “an amazing amount of duplica-
tion.
“It would be the better part of business
wisdom to have the organisation familiar
with all the various procedures so that
advice may be given as to the most ef-
fective means. For example, the most
important mail-order houses in America
exchange information, even though they
are competitors. How sensible it would
be for all agencies of the Catholic
Church to use the same degree of co-
operation.”
But still, “in all cases, there is no
overpayment of personnel and no extra-
vagance.” This could be the heart of the
mystery. Abstention from modern man-
agement methods means also abstention
from expense accounts and credit cards.
Jackson Martindell, chairman of the
board of the American Institute of Man-
agement, expressed the hope that the
ecumenical council would consider a pen-
sion plan which could encourage the re-
tirement of older cardinals. It seemed to
him also hardly sound practice for a
Board of Directors to meet just once
every hundred years.
Martindell’s audits are neither com-
missioned nor solicited by the Church.
Still, the first was conducted in the
’fifties, and, although protocol would
inhibit any public announcement, could
easily have had the encouragement both
of Pope Pius XII, whose only indisput-
able superstition was a Roman reverence
for the American business mystique, and
of Francis Cardinal Spellman, the
Church’s American vicar, whose touch
with real estate is his most impressive
evidence of access to revelation.
Pope Pius used an electric razor, in-
stalled time clocks in the Vatican and
showed himself otherwise appreciative of
the American genius The American In-
stitute of Management, perhaps from
that communion, remembers him as “a
man of extraordinary spiritual values”,
while Pope John XXIII is assessed only
as “practical and knowledgeable.” Still,
Pope John is a figure to be imagined far
less than his predecessor in serious con-
templation of an American management
audit reporting a slight drop in the pros-
pects for expansion of his enterprise
since 1956.
Pope John seems, in fact, a survivor
of the late, best period of the Counter-
Reformation. Yet, acting from sixteenth-
century models, he has, by the standards
of American management, improved the
Church’s rating 210 points since his ac-
cession. The game, to our misfortune,
seems to be given away.
The American Institute of Manage-
ment represents a mobilisation of the
advanced social sciences for profit. Its
audit is full of the pretensions of those
sciences; there is even a graph affecting
to measure the zeal of Catholics by cen-
turies: it is set at 100 per cent, in the
year ad 75, which would have surprised
Peter and Paul, stands at 95 under Con-
stantine, and is down to 80 by the year
1225, which would have affronted
Blanche of Castille. Martindell offered
this summation of his Institute’s re-
searches: “Either Communism will rule
the world or the Catholics will prevent it.
Who established the Common Market?
For my money, the Catholics.”
A group of German Jesuits had con-
ceived the Common Market and per-
suaded the Catholic politicians of West-
ern Europe to accept it. This was a fact
to be taken on faith, because, “You
know, they prefer to work confidenti-
ally.” Martindell identified Paul-Henri-
Spaak, that ornament of the Second In-
ternational, as one Western politician
particularly deferential to the Jesuits,
The Vatican, he said, had keyed the
ecumenical conference to its particular
desire to bring the Anglicans back to its
communion.
All this, of course, is poor history and
tone-deaf political analysis. The tendency
of the advanced social sciences to sound
like that is, naturally, the chief penalty
of a discipline which abolishes all cen-
turies except its own. Their inevitable
tone is that mixture of awe and condes-
cension which defines their final product
as ignorance.
To the American Institute of Manage-
ment, the path to the understanding of
Rome is its financial structure and not its
doctrine. This approach tells us wonder-
fully about management, which is more
and more a system for improving the
distribution of products that are steadily
worse produced. American management
is about finance and not fabrication,
about paper and not substance. Roger
Blough is chairman of the board of the
United States Steel Corporation, not be-
cause he understands how steel is made,
but because he understands how it is sold.
American management is also about
the temporary and not about the per-
manent. The American Institute of Man-
agement, polite as it is, still feels it im-
perative to remind the Roman Church
that it is the West’s great bastion against
Communism and must rally its battalions.
“[Veterum Sapient id’s l statement that
the Catholic Church is not to be strictly
identified with Western civilisation is
cause for concern.”
In the same key, Fidel Castro seems
to AIM the greatest single challenge to
the Church’s survival. It takes so much
less to frighten American management
than it does to frighten the Vatican.
Rome has never excommunicated Castro.
He is, one supposes, to Rome merely a
wandering child who does not yet know
that his real place is not in the history
of the modern world but somewhere in
the hagiography of the pagan Catholics
of Latin America. Castro will go down,
as down he must, and a century from
now there will be cheap chromos of him,
a Neapolitan saint, in the huts on the
Amazon. He will belong, as all the talis-
mans of the simple poor end up belong-
ing, to the Church of Rome.
Pius IX, from being trivial and stub-
born, lost the Church the nineteenth
century. But he saved it at the end by
clinging to the one great principle of
doctrine: the only heresy that can destroy
the Church from within is the heresy of
modernism.


THE SMELL
OF A BIT
OF DUST
Russell Drysdale's
journey among men
By PATRICIA ROLFE
One of the Drysdale illustrations from
“Journey Among Men,” published by
Hodder and Stoughton.
“ T ourney Among Men” seems set for
1 big sales and to become the pre-
ferred book to send to friends over-
seas this Christmas. Its success might have
been guaranteed by the combined talents
and reputations of Professor A. J.
(“Jock”) Marshall and artist Mr Russell
Drysdale. However, just to make sure,
the publishers, Hodder and Stoughton,
held a party, preceded by a Press con-
ference, in Sydney to launch the book. At
both of these Mr Drysdale was the
captive celebrity.
Mr Drysdale, with nothing on his mind
except moving into a new studio and
beginning work for an exhibition of
paintings to be held at the Leicester Gal-
leries, London, next May, was perhaps
better able than Professor Marshall, who
is now professor of zoology and compara-
tive physiology at Monash University,
Melbourne, to spare some time for book
promotion.
Mr Drysdale said that the idea of
undertaking a trip together over part of
northern Australia had been at the back
of Professor Marshall’s mind and his own
for many of the 20 years they have
known each other. The opportunity came
when Professor Marshall, then in Lon-
don, decided to undertake a new (the first
since 1926) survey of bird life, mainly in
the Kimberleys.
The journey grew out of an idea; the
book grew out of a few articles, illus-
trated by Mr Drysdale, which Professor
Marshall and Mr Drysdale did for the
London “Observer.”
However, a few articles were fairly
easy to manage, even with Professor
Marshall in London and Mr Drysdale in
Sydney. But a book was more compli-
cated. Mr Drysdale did the first draft
from log-books and diaries and sent this
to Professor Marshall to stew over for a
few months.
Then Professor Marshall took up his
Melbourne appointment. As soon as he
had settled in, and unpacked his crates
of books, which, according to Mr Drys-
dale, include a wonderful collection of
Australiana, they began work on the final
draft.
Only when the book was finished and
Mr Drysdale was sure what ground the
text covered, did he do his drawings.
These were done from memory and al-
most two years after the expedition. “I
taught myself to draw from memory at
an early age,” Mr Drysdale said. “It saves
me carrying a whole lot of stuff around
with me on trips.”
The casualness with which Mr Drys-
dale brought his professional talents to
bear on the book does not mean that he
regards the drawings as unimportant.
“All this life, all these people, are going
to disappear in a couple of years,” he
said with a nod towards his drawings “so
it is important that it be put down on
paper now.”
Mr Drysdale, who described his job on
the expedition as “mainly camp cook”
said that the trip offered no particular
hardships. “We were well equipped with
several vehicles”, he said, “and as long
as you have plenty of petrol and water
you are all right out there. We lived
off the country a bit, because you get
sick of tinned food.”
Mr Drysdale said that his Leicester
Galleries exhibition would probably in-
clude paintings which had “come out of”
the exhibition. He said that the Leicester
Galleries had never made any suggestions
about what they wanted from him, be-
cause a certain type of Australian pain-
ting might be fashionable in London at
the moment.
Mr Drysdale said that he was “amused”
more than anything else by the current
vogue for Australian painting in London.
“This sudden discovery of the South
Pacific has all the elements of 18th cen-
tury romanticism,” he said. “Kenneth
Clark, in his introduction to the Sidney
Nolan book talks about there being “no
dark forests” in Australia.” That is just
the sort of thing Joseph Banks might
have written. Of course, it might have
appeared like that to the early explorers,
but it seems strange that in the 20th
century the English should still know so
little about Australia.”
Mr Drysdale said that he had not
personally been much affected by recent
resales of paintings at auction at much
higher prices than had been originally
paid to the artist.
“I believe a painting of mine, for
which 1 got 50 guineas, was recently
resold privately for 2000,” he said. “Of
course, there is nothing I can do about
this, but perhaps something can be done
about paintings resold at auction. Per-
haps we could look at the French law
which gives an artist ‘right of access’ to
his paintings and, in some cases, 10 per
cent, of the resale price. But art auctions
are fairly new here and there is no
reason to suppose that a move will not
be made to protect artists.
Mr Drysdale said he would go to
London for his exhibition in May but he
did not think he would stay very long.
“England is just stuffed with people,”
he said. “You can’t get away from them.
And in France it seems w'orse. Every few
miles there is a village. A coupie of
months in Europe and I am longing for
the bush. Even in the closer settled areas
here there doesn’t seem to be enough
room any more. You can’t camp any-
w'here you want to unless you get out on
the open range.” Mr Drysdale gave an-
other glance at his drawings of harsh
people, looking out at him from a harsh
landscape. “After a couple of months
in Europe I am longing for the sight and
smell of a bit of dust.”


WORLDS
LARGEST GOLD
PRODUCER
y
&
X
ML
care you getting your siacare?
South Africa is, indeed, the world's
largest gold producer one reason for
her prosperity and purchasing power.
Many Australian companies are already
finding lucrative markets in South Africa
(the highly condensed list below indi-
cates the potential). To the export-
conscious, this surely merits 'on the spot'
investigation—particularly as you can ba
there overnight, in the superb comfort of S.A.A.'s Springbok service, at a cost of
about £4o* as part of a trip to or from Europe. So here's an item for your next
sales meeting.
A £4o* sidetrip to SOUTH AFRICA
on your next overseas trip could
earn a new EXPORT MARKET!
THESE ARE SOME OF THE ITEMS
AUST. EXPORTS TO STH. AFRICA
Foodstuffs—Paints Hardware
Electrical Goods Motor
Vehicles Kitchenware
Machinery, all types—Rubber,
Plastic and Leather Goods—
Timber Sporting Goods
Chemicals, Oils—Piece Goods
—Synthetic Yarns
is your product here?
•There is a slight fare variation from
the different Australian capital cities.
< i
Take your camera, too . . . Once in South
Africa, enjoy the richest sightseeing the world
has to offer. See Kruger National Park, the
diamond mines at Kimberley, Victoria Falls.
Shop for curios in quaint native villages,
explore great cities such as Johannesburg,
Durban and Cape Town. See your travel agent.
Fly
South African Airways
Choice of daylight o' overnight flights
by magnificent Boeing 707 Stratojets
between Johannesburg and London
with ciioice of stop-overs at no
extra air fare, or non-stop to Athens
and again onward to London.
IN ASSOCIATION WITH QANTAS, 8.0.A.C., C.A A. AND E.A.A.
SAABO/tO.B
New Zealand Newsletter
AN ABSENCE
OF TOHEROA
AND WINE
Even so life gets slightly
less dull
From MERVYN CULL in
Auckland
Tt is one of the
paradoxes of
New Zealand that
two or three things
for which it is in-
ternationally re-
nowned are denied
to the average
New Zealander.
Our trout fish-
ing, for instance, is
among the best in
the world; yet, un-
less you catch the
trout yourself or
know a successful
and generous ang-
ler, you have no
chance at all of
tasting it, for the
law prevents its be-
ing handled com-
mercially.
That succulent shellfish, the toheroa, is
another example. Gourmets round the
world unashamedly drool over toheroa
soup, but until this year the New Zea-
lander had more chance of sampling it
at Menzies’ Hotel in Melbourne, or buy-
ing it at Fortnum and Mason’s in Lon-
don, than he had of getting it in his own
country.
The toheroa is a capricious animal.
Its known haunts are few and far be-
tween, and confined mainly to fairly
widely separated beaches on the west
coast of the North Island. Even there,
however, it can’t be relied upon to make
regular appearances. Sometimes it has
lined the beaches in thousands; at others
it has disappeared virtually without trace.
Scientists have been studying its habits
for years. They have produced a scien-
tific formula for working out its age,
which is probably jolly useful if you
want to know the age of a toheroa, but
they have a long way to go before they
can guarantee continuity of plentiful
supply.
Apart from its natural inclinations,
the toheroa is protected from the New
Zealander’s stomach by law. Only for
two months of the year can it be gath-


ered, and then its size, the instruments
with which it may be dug and the num-
ber permitted to be taken are all legally
defined.
This latest season, however, has been
a good one. The beaches have been so
well stocked that the limit bag was in-
creased a little, commercial harvesting
licence was granted, and toheroa soup,
instead of being made almost exclusively
for export as in the past, again figured
on hotel and restaurant menus.
And on the beaches searchers hired
Maori children at half-a-crown a time to
boost the size of their parties so that
they could get past the beach inspectors
with more toheroa than they were legally
entitled to.
The toheroa, of course, is only one
shellfish which New Zealand produces to
please the palate of the gourmet. The
paua is another; the oyster, both rock
and mud, a third.
The rock oyster, unhappily, is a
national humiliation. The rocky coastline
round Auckland is encrusted with them.
In fact, at the turn of the century Auck-
land supplied the original stock from
which the oyster farming in Sydney
was developed.
But our experts here say they don’t
yet know enough about rock oysters to
risk exposing them to commercial ex-
ploitation; so only a few, picked by
Government staff, come on the market
each season.
For his rock oyster, as well as his
toheroa, the best the New Zealander can
do is to nip over to Australia.
And if he wants wine with his soup
and oysters, he had best stay there.
The New Zealand liquor licensing sys-
tem has grown up quite a lot in the past
couple of years. Previously you couldn’t
legally hope to have wine with your meals
anywhere except as a lodger, or as a
guest of a lodger, at a licensed hotel,
or in your own home.
You could, of course, always ask a
restaurant proprietor for wine and, if
you knew the right proprietor, he might
serve it to you in a coffee cup. Or,
if you smuggled in your own bottle, he
might provide something to drink it from.
Then again, he might not do either.
But last year, after years of Govern-
ment deference to the temperance orator,
new legislation enabled selected restaur-
ants to take out licences for serving bev-
erage wines and beer. “Selected” was
the operative word, for in a country of
two and a half million people only 15
licences have been issued.
Business at these licensed establish-
ments has boomed and, in an effort
to keep pace with them, unlicensed eat-
ing places have increasingly turned a
blind eye to the bulge in the patron’s
pocket.
Take your own wine into a restaurant
of any standing these days and the
chances are the waiter will ask: “Coca-
cola or lemonade?”
If you have a red wine, you reply
“Coca-cola”, and the waiter brings you
glasses and a couple of bottles of Coca-
cola to stand as camouflage on the table.
If you have white wine, you reply
“Lemonade”, and he brings glasses and
a couple of bottles of lemonade.
Just the same, it is all a clear advance
on the position of a couple of years
ago. And now, having taken the bull
by the horns and found that it didn’t
struggle as much as had been expected,
the Government has been emboldened to
go a little further, and tavern licences
are to be issued that is, licences for
premises which need not provide accom-
modation with the liquor they serve.
The farce of regular polls
Tt’s all a healthy trend in a country
A which for nearly half a century has
maintained the farce of regular polls on
prohibition. Of course, the six o’clock
swill that hour of hectic drinking
between the time businesses close and
the hour the pubs shut has still to go,
but the introduction of more sensible
licensing hours must surely be the next
major liquor reform.
The old frontier attitude to drinking
is fast disappearing as the popular taste
develops for good drink with good food
in the civilised atmosphere of a good
restaurant.
It is, of course, a gratifying trend as
far as the New Zealand wine industry
is concerned. There is little dining-out
tradition in this country, but the post-
war revolution in the New Zealand res-
taurant business, due mainly to the in-
flux of foreign immigrants, combined
with the greater opportunities for foreign
travel and the import restrictions, have
led New Zealanders increasingly to their
own vintages.
So much so that the demand for New
Zealand wine has doubled in the past
five years and the annual earnings of the
industry, which barely existed 30 years
ago, now exceeded £.A1,250,000.
Thus local winemakers have been en-
couraged to improve their product and,
although many of their wines fall short
of the best Australian vintages, some
are very good indeed and compete suc-
cessfully in overseas competition.
Although table wines seem to be the
New Zealand producer’s forte, they com-
prise only about 16 per cent of the
million-odd gallons which New Zealand
makes each year, for the fortified des-
sert wines have an overwhelming grip
on public taste.
As the dining-out habit spreads, how-
ever, this taste, too, will inevitably
change. At the same time, the demand
for more New Zealand wine seems likely
to introduce more rationalisation and
specialisation into the local industry.
Apart from one or two major pro-
ducers, this industry is divided among
numerous independent winemakers, most-
ly of Dalmatian stock. These people
strive to produce almost everything
claret, burgundy, hock, port, sherry,
assorted liqueurs from the same little
plot. And since they make so little of
any particular variety at a time, their
product lacks consistency of quality.
Today you buy a very palatable drink;
tomorrow the same label covers mouth-
puckering plonk.
There may, of course, be a perfectly
reasonable excuse for it all. There cer-
tainly was for the Dalmatian who pro-
duced a bottle of chablis when asked for
a bottle of hock.
“What happened to the hock?” the
buyer asked. “Run out of it?”
“Oh, that’s the hock,” said the Dal-
matian. “I didn’t win a prize with it
when I called it hock, but I did when I
entered it as chablis.”


“WELL NEVER
GO BACK”
A short story by CHARLES SRIBER
Norm
and Julie never felt inadequate
about anything. They were the
positive people who decided
and acted, and this tearing,
riproaring confidence paid off.
“rpHE job of restoring they’ve done on
Jl Delos is absolutely fabulous,” the
woman leaned on the rail, said the
slight vibration of the idling diesel shak-
ing her pendulous breasts, “wait till you
see it. Three eras, Mycenean, Hellenic
and Byzantine. Mykonos is attractive of
course. A bit touristy. Nothing historic.
That’s the island they took the dying to
and the, er, pregnant women. Delos was
sacred, you see, nobody was allowed to
die or give birth on Delos. So they took
them to Mykonos.”
Phil Stanton knew the woman was
talking, not because she thought he was
listening, but after the compulsive manner
of American women who are gushers
that simply cannot be stopped. He looked
ahead at the slowly approaching sprawl
of the island and the low-lying smudge
of white which marked the village. Well,
she could rumble on interminably. He
was damned if he had made the trip
to Mykonos simply to go on a pilgrimage
to Delos. Might have a look at it
almost certainly would. But the main
thing was meeting up with Julie and
Norm again. God, how many years had
they been away now?
His brain wound back in a series of
framed takes, of Norm at his William
Street desk, standing by the mike in the
bomb-shelter studio, making notes on a
talks script, chatting affably with the
recording engineer when the final one
at Pyrmont with the wharf receding
from the white side of the ship and Norm
and Julie leaning on the rail clutching
the ridiculous paper streamers with him-
self standing on the wharf hold the other
ends and feeling vaguely foolish and
inadequate.
Of course, that was it. Norm and Julie
never felt inadequate about anything.
They were the positive people who de-
cided and acted and this tearing, rip-
roaring confidence paid off. Inevitably
and always paid dividends. Norm had
strode through London like a giant. A
show with the BBC, tapes back to the
ABC, a success all the way and suddenly,
quite inexplicably, they were in Greece
and here they had stayed since, when
was it? Back in 1954, and here it was
1962. Two plays on Broadway, one a
seven month’s run, the other shorter but
still profitable, a play still running on
the West End, umpteen TV shows and
all of it emanating from the squat little
island ahead.
The ship dropped anchor with a grind-
ing rattle and the hull shook as the
engines went into tempestuous reverse.
Phil was bustled and pushed onto a
crowded motor launch together with
screaming, black-clad women, aloof
Americans, Germans in lederhosen and
three smelly goats.
Norm and Julie were on the wharf.
He saw them immediately standing in the
clutch of Greeks and tourists welcoming
the new arrivals. Norm still squat and
nuggety, a little less hair, a little more
around the middle, and Julie as slim as
ever in white tight pants. Still a damned
attractive woman at 40.
First impressions were confused. There
was backslapping and hand wrenching
and the two of them talking at once
and breaking off to sling a word or two
of Greek at some passing islander. Norm
took his bag and they trundled him along
the quay to a cafeneon with the raucous
nasal tones of a Greek song bellowing
out from a tiny loudspeaker. An un-
shaven waiter brought wine in an enamel
container and little s.vucers of what Phil
discovered later was octopus and they
talked, saying all the predictable things
that had to be said; staccato conversa-
tion with sentences that never got fin-
ished, names rising and swept away,
events rehashed, distorted, questions and
more questions and Phil felt himself re-
treating from it all.
He found himself watching the mov-
ing lips of the two of them and realised
that neither one was interested in any-
thing he had to say. They were simply
talking in great vague sweeps. He noted
that Norm had lost two upper teeth and
Julie’s were clumsily filled and nicotine
stained.
It wasn’t until he had walked unsteadily
with them to the house in the incredibly
narrow lane that he felt any sense of
reality at all. There, sitting in the white-
washed kitchen, he felt a warm glow
dissipate the misgivings as Norm lounged
back on the chair opposite exuding
warmth. This was like the old days, the
feeling of being considered by him with
only a suspicion of patronage.
Norm talked on and Phil remembered
the nights at the Journalists’ Club, nights
which went on until dawn filtered through
the curtained windows. He was the
hounded personality and obviously
relished the role. Phil wondered whether
the audiences were big enough to satisfy
him these days.
After the meal they showed him the
house and he had to admit it was a
dream. He liked the handmade simple
Greek furniture, the austerity of the
undecorated walls, the spartan simplicity
of it all. They were proud of their shower
worked from a hot water system provided
from gas bottles, the tiles that Norm had
set and the unexpected functional aspect
of it all.
Of course they made points. “We
never had it easy at the start, mate. Don’t
get that idea. We went short of every-
thing and ate beans more days than I


care to remember.” Norm sipped the
wine and looked over Phil’s shoulder,
“but after a hell of a lot of work the
cheques started rolling in and living’s
pretty cheap here, you know. We bought
the house for <£6oo. Imagine it back
home. Six hundred quid for a five-
roomed house!”
Julie took it up. “No, Norm. You’ll
never get us back in the rat race. We’ve
broken free. Not that we’re prosperous.
There are taxes and all that. We spend
a bit too. We try to help the local people
... a few hundred drachmas for an
operation, some fisherman wants a new
set of sails for his caique. We help. We
think it’s only right. You can’t live in a
community and just take from it.”
“I> UT we pity the poor mugs in Sydney,”
** Norm now, “all those young execu-
tive types, forging on and getting no-
where. Caught in the bloody great tread-
mill. Here we take it easy. Work hard,
and spend plenty of time laying in the
sun, or sitting on the quay. Hard to say
what it is exactly. Sometimes we look at
the clock and calculate the time back
there and think of those poor bastards
bent over desks.”
“While we have another glass of Samos
wine,” Julie again, “put our feet up and
stare out at the Aegean. It’s wonderful,
wonderful and we’re completely inte-
grated. The islanders accept us. We’re
part of them.”
“Any other foreign bods living here?”
Phil asked.
“They come and go,” Norm grinned.
“Mostly go,” Julie said.
“They have such cock-eyed ideas. Full
of the romance of living on a Greek
island. They write bloody great books all
avant garde with never a verb in sight
and they wonder why the hell they can’t
sell ’em. Some of them have the nerve
to laugh at us. Call us hacks. Yes, my
oath. We’re hacks all right. Only we’re
making enough money to stay on here
and most of them have gone.”
Norm yawned. “Time for me siesta.
Never miss it. Gets me through the day.”
He disappeared upstairs, Julie looking
after his retreating back with adoring
eyes.
She turned to Phil, “Like to take a
walk? It’s a good time to see the place as
it is. Everybody’s resting now.”
He nodded and they left the house. The
quay was almost deserted. The waiter was
asleep, one chair tilted beneath him, arms
hung over the backs of two other chairs
and feet up on a fourth. A few fisher-
men sat on the cobbled foreshore, toes
hooked in the mesh of their nets, hands
passing the shuttle automatically. Julie
seemed to know them all by name. It
was “Yassoo Manolis, ti karnis Gregori?
pos eesthey Yorgo?” all the way and
Phil looked at his feet and tried to be-
lieve it wasn’t all for his benefit.
She walked briskly and erect and he
marvelled that she was still attractive,
even exciting. A few crows feet were
evident around her eyes, the skin of her
neck was roughened a little by the sun.
“But she’s still a beauty,” he thought,
“God, back in the old days she had the
men wild. Norm loved it too.”
He walked with her along the laby-
rinth of the narrow streets. They flat-
tening themselves against the houses
when a panier laden donkey trotted past.
They climbed the small hill to where the
windmill turned and she sat down against
the base of one of them. Below, the water
stretched still and blue with a red hulled
caique drifting on top of the horizon
that seemed improbably close.
“Isn’t it perfect?” she said. “That’s
Delos over and way to the south Siros,
Tinos over that way, lkaria further on.
The heart of the Aegean! People have
loved it for aeons. Beautiful, beautiful!”
He had to agree. If this was the ivory
tower he wished there was a niche for
him. But he knew that at the end of
four months he would be on the ship
back to Sydney, taking up life where he
left it. Would he feel emptiness, nos-
talgia? In small doses yes. But he’d sur-
vive. He enjoyed his work.
“We'll never go back.”
He was silent and embarrassed. Why
did she find it so necessary to repeat this
affirmation? He could see it. Who would
doubt that their way of living was the
best possible in a lousy world?
“Did you find the language hard?”
This only because he felt he had to say
something.
“Oh, incredibly so. It’s a devil of a
language. But we mastered it and that of
course was the essential to belonging.
The locals love us for that. So many
people come here and remain intrinsic-
ally foreign. We’ve assimilated.”
She was silent. “How is Sydney.”
“Still there. You miss it?”
“Like a hole in the head.”
“Nobody you’d like to go back and
see.”
“Oh, mother perhaps. But we’ve been
away too long to ever go back. A few
of the old crowd used to write and then
the space between letters grew longer
and longer. Damned few letters with an
Australian stamp we get these days.”
When they arrived back at the house
Stanton was drowsy. He’d caught the
boat from Piraeus at 7 a.m. and felt he
needed nothing so much as a sleep. Julie
noticed this. “Look, I’ll give you a blanket
and you can lie down in the living room.
We’ll make up your bed for tonight in
the spare room.”
He awoke to the noise of a banging
shutter and the sky outside was dark.
He switched on the light and was aware
that his mouth was dry and his head
ached. Norm and Julie were in the
kitchen when he stepped through the
door.
“Aha, so you’ve come to at last,” Norm
had a bottle of ouzo before him on the
table. “Well, about time too. We’re hav-
ing a shivoo in your honor at the taverna
tonight. Bring yourself to life with a
shower and let’s get away.”
A cool wind was lashing the quay
when they emerged from the narrow
street. It swung the strung out light bulbs
suspended between the awning stancheons
of the cafes and the air was redolent of
sand and the dank smell of seaweed.
Inside the taverna it was hot and heavy
and when the door opened the wind
whipped at the tablecloths. They ate fried
squid, baked lamb and spinach, washed
it down with litres of wine and Phil sat
back enjoying the noise and clatter of
the place. Most of the diners were
foreigners, but at a table near the door
a party of Greek fishermen, caps pulled
over their eyes, were quietly and happily
drunk. One had a stringed instrument
slung around his shoulders which he
played with two small hammers. The
others sang and roared with approving
laughter after every song.
Phil felt happy, full and more than a
little drunk. Julie talked incessantly,
Norm roared his approval of the food,
the wine, the music and, of course, of
Mykonos. This was the life, he averred,
this was the high spot that nothing in
the brittle commercial society they had
left behind could equal. Good food, good
wine, good company!
“They’ll clear the tables and have
dancing soon,” Julie said. “You’ll love
the dancing. The islands have dances of
their own. Totally different style from
the mainland. They call them ‘syrtos’,
very melodic and gentle.”
It was Norm who made the first move
to clear the floor. He bustled round talk-
ing to the foreigners, helping them push
back the tables and clear a dancing
space. From the kitchen, the proprietor
looked on without expression. When a
space had been cleared Norm shouted
something in Greek to the musician and
the fishermen banged their glasses on
the table and began singing. Julie jumped
to her feet, took Norm's hand and a
Greek sitting near the door followed tak-
ing hers. Hand in hand, they' began a
dance, Norm was the leader. Phil settled
back and grinned. De pite his bulk Norm
was agile. He spun round, placing his
feet in careful time to the music.
After a while he relinquished Julie’s
hand and moved to the end of the line.
She was now the focal point of atten-
tion. It seemed that the dance called
for the leader tc improvise and the rest
of the line merely shuffled in time be-
hind. As he passed the table, Norm


9
■ -r.
WITH
SPECIAL KEYING SYSTEMS
GRAND MASTER-KEYED SYSTEM
Each lock has its own individual key which operates that lock only and
no other, but the locks are divided into two or more groups. Each group
is subject to its own Master-Key which opens all locks in that group, but
no other group.
However,'all locks are also subject to a Grand Master-Key which opens
all locks in all groups.
As with Master-Keyed Systems, Keyed-Alike groups may also be Included
in G.M.K. Systems.
WITH THE LOCKWOOD
MASTER-KEY SYSTEM
YOU NEED CARRY ONLY
ONE KEY INSTEAD OF
HUNDREDS!
!n industry and commerce today a Lockwood MK System is an essential
pre-requisite to controlled security throughout your organisation.
Each system, large or small, is designed specifically to individual requirements,
enabling smooth functioning of access by authority, including Fire Brigade
and Police, and guaranteeing rapid accessibility, in emergencies, to any part
of the building, plant, or organisation.
Specifications and code details of all established Special Keying Systems are
held on permanent record under strict security by Ogden Industries
enabling quick replacement of lost keys or damaged locks "true to code”, and
allowing absolute control of additions or extensions to the system.
Experienced special representatives are immediately available to discuss
Master-Keyed or Grand Master-Keyed Systems in detail.
Please contact your leading hardware merchant, or Ogden Industries Pty.
Limited at any Branch, listed below, for prompt attention.
IPC®* UP
W|Tm A
Manufactured in Australia by
OGDEN INDUSTRIES PTY. LIMITED
Brisbane 7-3047 • Sydney LM 3191, LM 3186 • Canberra 4-4098
Adelaide W 2153 • Perth 23-2214 • Hobart 3-3141 • Melbourne 569-06;
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
Head Office: 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Phone: BW 1011, BW 1012. BW 4991
DIRECTORS'
STRDAN ROBERTSON (Chapman). S. E. A. STIRLING
JAMES H STEPHENSON. R G GAT.E RAYMOND S GOWARD C5.8.E.
A. C. MAITLAND
(Managing Director)
R A CATLEY
(Manager)
Brunches ana Ayencies m all Slates
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION MERITS YOUR SUPPORT
grabbed the litre wine-jug, drank nearly
half of it and continued with the dancers,
st:-ll clutching thfe jug. As the line swung
round near the door, he reeled back-
wards and stumbled against a table. He
reached out his hand that still held the
jug and portion of the wine slopped
into the face of a woman sitting there.
She swung back, the look of dismay
frozen on her face. Her companion leapt
to his feet, grabbed Norm by the arm
and swung him around. “What you do?
Englishman, why you not more careful?”
“Aw, pull your head in,” Norm
shrugged to be free of him.
“We come here to drink quiet. If the
Greeks want to dance that is all right,
but you, some foreign visitor, have to
m.ke a riot,” the man shouted.
“Aw . . .” Norm swung free of him,
his fist shot out and the man went
reeling back.
1 here was complete pandemonium.
Women shrieked, men rushed over to
separate the two of them, but Julie, at
the head of the line, merely glanced and
continued to dance. Phil never saw v/hat
exactly happened, but the crowd was
gathered around some focal spot looking
down, talking, shouting, gesticulating.
He got to his feet, pushed through
them and saw Norm laying flat on his
back on the floor, blood oozing from a
cut lip. He knelt down, cradled his head,
shouted at them in English for water.
One of the fishermen helped him carry
Norm back to the house. There was no
sign of Julie. Together they laid him on
the sofa and the fisherman left. He took
some water in a bowl and bathed Norm’s
face. He opened his eyes, looked up and
grinned. “Sail right, mate, S’quite all
right,” and he grinned, rolled over and
immediately began to snore.
T>hil didn't know how long he sat there.
He was torn between going back to
the cafe to collect Julie and not leav-
ing Norm. He decided to stay.
He didn't know what time it was that
the door opened and Julie came in. The
generator had shut down and he had
lighted the little oil lamp. She stopped at
the door, looked at him, smiled archly
and with her arms open moved unsteadily
towards him.
"Hello Phil. It's been a wonderful
night,’’ she shivered and moaned slightly
and smiled at him and he saw her lipstick
was smeared.
"This is a wonderful place. The men,
so . . . How's Norm?” lightly as though
she knew he’d be all right, “he’s crazy.”
She laughed. “Wonderful place, wonder-
ful people. ' She looked at him frowning
to get him in focus. “We’ll never go back
you know, never go back . . .” Her voice
trailed off and she took his hand, held it
briefly between her two and let it drop
before moving off to the stairway that
led up to the bedroom.


OVERSEAS
WATCH ON THE CHEJAO
It Mr Nehru decides to stand and fight . . .
From BALRAM TANDON in New Delhi
As autumn sets in, it is becoming in-
creasingly clear that Chinese
troops massed along the 2500-
mile-long Indo-Tibetan border have
failed to achieve the immediate
military objective set by Peking. In
Ladakh, Indian troops, moving quicker
than Peking had anticipated, have
successfully frustrated Chinese troops
from sneaking in any strength into
the valleys that would throw open
the route to the monastery at Leh, capital
of Little Tibet. Despite intermittent en-
gagements, Indian strong points estab-
lished during the spring have held fast,
and some well behind Chinese positions
menace the supply lines from the Tibetan
Plateau.
Indian patrols are moving ever more
freely, and recently they prevented the
Chinese, without firing a shot, from ad-
vancing further in the vicinity of Pan-
gong Lake. In India’s North-east Frontier
Agency, a similar pattern is discernible:
a Chinese pincer that attempted to sneak
across the Thag La Ridge along the Mac-
Mahon Line two weeks ago has not only
been checked but now, after a week of
fighting, faces total liquidation.
The laconic daily bulletins released in
New Delhi reveal little of what is actually
happening at this remote outpost. But,
perhaps significantly, Peking’s commu-
niques have grown more intemperate and
daily give a list of casualties; the Indians
have only announced three wounded in
seven days of fighting. The Chinese have
officially stated that at least five of their
men have been killed and at least seven
wounded.
Indian officials are reticent and deny
any knowledge of Chinese casualties. But
no Indian official has contradicted
Peking’s version that during the last
week’s fighting Indian troops threw hand-
grenades and used artillery with some
success to demolish Chinese installations
on the western side of Chejao Bridge.
There is little doubt here, and officials
do not conceal the fact, that fighting on
this second front has been bitter and the
Indian troops intend to hold the Thag
La Ridge and to push the Chinese back
to the Tibetan Plateau.
From the sketchy accounts available, it
appears that the main purpose of the
Chinese pincer was to take advantage of
the absence of. Indian patrols (held back
because of the rains), sneak across the
Chejao Bridge, and overwhelm the large
Indian forward base at Dhola held by a
small detachment of the Assam Rifles,
a semi-military police unit.
Dhola, situated at the point where the
boundaries of India, Tibet and Bhutan
meet, would have been a great strategic
prize; it is the terminus of the arterial
road from the chief military base in the
southern plain. Additionally, Dhola offers
easy access to the road that runs along-
side Bhutan’s western border with India.
The recent clashes in Ladakh and the
North-east Frontier Agency have been
useful in showing the relative strengths
of the Indian and Chinese armies. The
Chinese clearly have the advantage of
numbers and at every point have had an
overwhelming superiority. The troops
have stamina but little training and,
because of the Tibetan Plateau, have
logistics on their side.
The Indians have fewer troops at for-
ward positions but all of them are from
crack units and well trained. Logistics
have vastly improved with perfection of
air-dropping techniques, the new road net-
works and the establishment of forward
bases with a chain of subsidiary and auxi-
liary posts. So far the Indians have shown
a superiority of equipment as well, and
this certainly has been a factor respon-
sible for the tactical advantages they have
gained in Ladakh and the North-east
Frontier Agency.
The recent clashes have inspired the
belief that the Chinese intend to fight a
series of localised battles, each far re-
moved from the other. Military opinion is
almost unanimous in holding to the theory
that if the Chinese could be decisively
beaten at one or two points their probes
in the eastern sector of the boundary
would cease.
Not all military men are agreed that
this is true for Ladakh, which at the
moment is China’s principal objective.
Few of them believe that Chou En-lai’s
ambitions will be satisfied if his offer to
recognise the MacMahon Line, provided
India concedes him title to the Aksai
Chin plateau, were accepted. Some firmly
believe it will need more determined mili-
tary action, possibly a series of clashes,
to contain the Chinese in Ladakh. Most
military men agree that spectacular re-
sults could be achieved if Indian forward
patrols were permitted to harass the
Chinese and fire at sight at Chinese pincer
movements.
For the moment Mr Nehru has insisted
that his army commanders hold their men
from firing until provoked by hostile
action. Meanwhile, the Chinese have
shown a peculiar sensitivity to recent
clashes: volumes of Notes have flown
from Peking repeating old formulas for
a settlement which Mr Nehru has re-
jected. There are some grounds for be-
lieving that China will be ready to come
to terms if the Indians become aggressive
on the border.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
“hipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
S^jACKSON
-OSULLI VXj'yj
‘z> FTYLTD t
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. I,td.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & C«.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
lithographic printers
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANU EACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS •; PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
WOLVES WITH LONG TEETH
Cambodia's relations with South Vietnam are at breaking point . . .
From JOHN STIRLING in Saigon
Pxince Sihanouk of Cambodia
recently described his small
country as “a sheep surround-
ed by wolves with long teeth.” He
made it clear that he was referring
to his neighbors, Thailand and South
Vietnam. Diplomatic relations with Thai-
land were broken off in October 1961,
for the second time in four years. In the
last few months Prince Sihanouk has re-
peatedly charged Thailand with violations
of Cambodia’s frontiers.
Cambodia’s relations with South Viet-
nam are now strained almost to breaking
point. Sihanouk’s suspicions of the Saigon
regime darkened when, in January 1959,
his secret police unearthed a plot to over-
throw him, and to put in his place the
Governor of Siem Reap province, a
Cambodian named Dap Chhoun. The
Cambodian Deuxieme Bureau found
weapons, i-dio receivers, gold bars and
documents which, they alleged, led
directly from Siem Reap the South
Vietnam representative in Cambodia, and
from there to the Presidential palace
in Saigon. An American agent was also
charged with complicity in the plot. Des-
pite its flamboyant trimmings, the Siem
Reap affair shed i lurid light on the
antagonisms between the two States
antagonisms deeply rooted in history.
From the 14th century onwards, the
Kings of Cambodia (from whom Siha-
nouk is directly descended) depeatedly
fled from their capitals, because of inva-
sions from Thailand and South Vietnam.
The ruins of Angkor Wat are a perpetual
reminder to Cambodians of a once-
splendid civilisation destroyed in 1430 by
a Siamese horde. During World War 11,
the western provinces of Cambodia, Bat-
tambang and Siem Reap were annexed by
Thailand, with the connivance of the
Japanese. They were returned under the
terms of the Washington Agreement of
1946.
Meanwhile, South Vietnam has revived
its claims to six small, barren islands off
the Cambodian coast, and maintains its
policy of “assimilating” the 300,000
Cambodians living in the western pro-
vinces of Vietnam a problem sur-
viving from the Vietnamese annexation
of Cambodian territory in the 18th and
19th centuries.
In Sihanouk's view, his neighbors are
projecting into the 1960 s the aggressive
policies which they have followed for
hundreds of years. Because of the weight
of history, and partly because of his
highly-strung nature, the Prince speaks in
the most unbridled terms of his neighbors
and their Heads of State.
In a recent speech he said: “I have
prayed to the spirits of our august dece-
ased Kings to cause Ngo Dinh Diem
(President of South Vietnam) to meet
with some great disaster. I have prayed to
these Kings to help me and my people
maintain our territory to prevent Mr
Diem from taking one square millimetre
of our land.” In the same tirade he
referred to Thailand as “a dishonest and
uncivilised nation,” and described Mar-
shal Sarit Thanarat, Prime Minister of
Thailand, as “a madman.”
Yet it is not so much Sihanouk’s words
as his actions which have really embit-
tered Cambodia’s relations with it- neigh-
bors. His recognition of Communist
China in 1958 was the first step in a
policy of zigzag neutralism which has in
turn infuriated and terrified the anti-
Communist regimes in Bangkok and
Saigon. Since 1958 Cambodia has received
about £l2 million in aid from Peking,
mainly for the production of cement,
cotton textiles, paper and plywood. About
100 Chinese technicians are in Cambodia
supervising the construction of these
factories.
To Cambodia’s neighbors, with their
internal Communist problems, Prince
Sihanouk is consorting with their bitterest
enemy. South Vietnam charges that Viet-
cong (Communist) bases have been set
up in the border region. Thailand asserts
that Cambodia has become a refuge for
Communist subversion, espionage and
propaganda. Prince Sihanouk strongly
denies this, asserting that there is not a
single Communist base in his territory.
In turn, Sihanouk declares: “The aim
of Thailand and South Vietnam is to
redraw their common frontier on the line
of the Mekong river that is to say, to
efface us, purely and simply, from the
map.” This age-old policy, the Prince
believes, has only one modern feature:
that it is now aided and abett:d by the
United States. He points out that South
Vietnam, Thailand and even Laos have
received more American arms than Cam-
bodia. Currently he is urging the United
States to provide him with equipment for
two more infantry battalions.
He realises, however, that his small
country, with its population of less than
five million, cannot resist a full-scale
attack by Thai or Vietnamese forces,
even with two more battalions, instead,
he intends (as he frankly admits) to take
advantages of the rivalries between the
Communist and Western blocs to obtain
international guarantees for Cambodia’s
neutrality and territorial integrity. Siha-
nouk recently explained why he must ob-
tain these guarantees while the Great
Power rivalries continue.
“The secret of our success,” the Prince
writes, “rests in the balance of forces (in
South-east Asia), in the presence of two
hostile camps, one of which comes to
our aid when the other threatens us.” But
this balance of power, he believes, is
shifting in favor of the Communist bloc.
He is convinced that Thailand is capable
of becoming neutral, and breaking its
Western alliances, at any time that it suits
the Thai leaders.
“With the Thai nation,” he writes, “op-
portunism has for many centuries been
raised to the status of an institution.” At
the same time, he believes that the whole
of Vietnam will pass, sooner or later,
under Communist control.
These developments which he re-
gards as inevitable will be disastrous
for Cambodia. He writes: “The day that
Vietnam is reunified under Ho Chi-minh
(the Communist leader), and that
Thailand becomes a good friend of the
Socialist camp that day our country
will be in danger of death . . .” For then
it will be useless to appeal for military


COONAWARRA ESTATE*
CLARET
I kaykl
At wine tastings through-
out the Commonwealth,
this claret stands out as
being the most enjoyable,
distinctive and authentic
in style.
• “Estate” (as the word “Chateau” In France)
Is used to distinguish this claret as being the
genuine product of the winegrowers own
vineyard.
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors:
S. WYNN & CO. PTY. LTD.
aid to a Communist Power. “Between two
neutralist friends,” he explains, “one must
choose naturally the more important and
the more pliable.” So Thailand, with im-
punity, will be able once again to seize
the western provinces of Cambodia, while
the Vietnamese Communist advan'e
again into Phnom Penh. Nor will it be
possible to appeal to the West, for the
fact that Thailand had chosen neutrality
would mean that the West had ceased
to have any influence in South-east Asia.
This sombre vision of the future (and
who is to say if it is too pessimistic?)
underlies Sihanouk’s demand for gua-
rantees from the 14 Geneva Conference
nations for Cambodia’s frontiers. He
believes that if he does not obtain these
pledges now from Britain, the United
States, Russia, China and the other 10
countries, it may be impossible to get
then in the future. With his political
adroitness, his flair for publicity and his
determination, Prince Sihanouk is
making sure that Cambodia will not be
overtaken by events.
RESTIVE ANGOLA
Fading fiction of integrated metropolitan and overseas Portugal
From ELIZABETH MORRIS in Lisbon
The dismissal of the Governor-
General of Angola, General
Venancio Deslandes, which was
announced the week before last, is
symptomatic of the strained relations
between Portugal and Angola. Last
April General Deslandes announced
a scheme to provide university education
in Angola for Africans. In July, however,
the National Junta of Education in Lis-
bon annulled the scheme as “unconstitu-
tional,” and almost simultaneously an-
nounced its own plans for university
education in Angola. Like so many of the
Government’s good intentions, however,
it is not yet out of the cocoon stage. After
bitter exchanges between the Overseas
Minister in Lisbon and General Des-
landes, the latter was recalled to Lisbon
last month.
From the moment of taking office in
Angola 15 months ago, General Des-
landes had a stormy reign. He had to face
violent criticism in the Press which, un-
like the Portuguese Press, is comparati-
vely free, over the disproportionate share
of the defence costs of Angola borne by
the Province. He was assailed with com-
plaints of Portugal’s trade discrimination
against the Province, of the non-conver-
tibility of Angolan currency, and of oil
stocks piling up in Angola while Portu-
gal’s semi-nationalised refineries bought
oil from Venezuela.
As all organised opposition in Angola
must go underground or wither away,
the most moderate of Angola’s indepen-
dence movements, the United Angolan
Front (FUA) has made its headquarters
in Paris. The movement, which advocates
“multi-racial” legislation, draws support
from the large European faction in the
Benguela and Nova Lisboa areas, and has
just submitted a petition to the United
Nations seeking backing for Angolan self-
government.
Several of FUA’s European sympathi-
sers are still exiled with “fixed resi-
dences” in Portugal, but the leader
Senhor Socrates Dascalos, the former
Vice-Rector of Benguela Lyceum, has
succeeded in reaching France. At this
stage FUA would be content with self-
government and retaining loose links with
Portugal, but it has also drawn up a
programme for transition to indepen-
dence.
Another Angolan opponent of the re-
gime, the African priest, Father Pinto
Andrade, brother of the nationalist leader
Mario Andrade now in Leopoldville, is
now detained in Coimbra gaol.
About 18 months ago Father Andrade
was deported from Angola to Portugal
and given “fixed residence” in Singer-
verga Abbey near Braga. His imprison-
ment follows an alleged attempt to leave
Portugal illegally and join other Angolan
exiles abroad.
Against this background of strife and
racial discrimination and political con-
tempt, the Government’s dismissal of
General Deslandes emphasises once more
the fading fiction of the integration of the
Overseas Provinces with metropolitan
Portugal. Mozambique is still angry over
the fact that her Governor-General was
not invited to attend the recent talks in
Lisbon with the South African Transport
Minister on amendments to the Mozam-
bique Convention.
The picture is not encouraging, and the
Overseas Minister is apparently of the
same opinion. His remark the other day
that “it would be a victory for our ene-
mies if they knew of all the discord that
exists between us” is the most candid he
has made since taking office.
He was announcing a round table
conference to be held at Lisbon on Oc-
tober 15, to which Government represen-
tatives and local Legislative Councils
from each of the Overseas Provinces
have been invited. Here, it is hoped, some
of the discord will be ironed out. “In-
creased autonomy” and “changes in the
basic laws governing these territories”
are promised by the Minister but not
specified, but it is unlikely to be auto-
nomy as it is generally accepted. It is
equally unlikely that the delegates will
be given an opportunity of discussing
what is in store for them. The new
measures will most certainly be pre-
sented as a fait accompli.
One outcome of the conference must
be a change in the make-up of the local
Legislative Councils, a move long over-
due. At present the African population
is grossly under-represented. But unless
reforms are simultaneously made in ballot
procedure, the new Legislative Councils
will consist as before of members ratified
by the electors from a single list of
Government-approved candidates.


FORUM
LEGALISING
ABORTION
The law, the facts, the arguments for and against
By HENRY MAYER
TYTO important pressure group is pressing for any reform in our abortion
laios; people who want abortions get them pretty easily and are the
last to organize for any “right to abortionthere is, indeed, hardly any
discussion of abortion at all.
The very word is still shrouded in taboos. In the 1930’s a Melbourne
doctor, A. E. Brown, had a platitudinous paper on “The Ethics of Abortion”
rejected by medical journals: public discussion was thought “not wise
nor desirable”. Today, of the few books on the subject in Sydney’s public
library, some are still marked for restricted access. When put on the
shelf, their spines are turned away from the common reader so that the
word cannot shock, corrupt or deprave.
In this article I shall try to bring out some of the key issues in the
case for and against legalized abortion. Most of the arguments on both
sides seem to me quite muddled.
The Law
A bortion is the expulsion ot an
inviable foetus, that is one that
could not survive if born, from the
womb. In about 15-20 per cent, of
pregnancies it is natural or spontaneous.
If actively produced, it is known as
induced abortion; if this is done to safe-
guard the life or health of the mother,
as therapeutic abortion.
In England, abortion before the
foetus quickens or moves in the womb,
round about the third month, is said by
some writers to have been a mis-
demeanour before 1803. Since quicken-
ing is hard to prove, there were few, if
any, prosecutions. Through a number
of statutes culminating in the Offences
against the Person Act of 1861, abortion
became a crime. Australian law, for
example in NSW Crimes Act of 1900
(sections 82-84), follows the English law.
The unlawful use of an instrument or
drug by or on the woman with intent
to procure miscarriage is punishable, in
NSW, by penal servitude for 10 years;
the supplying or procuring of a drug or
instrument by five years. In the case of
self-abortion the woman must be preg-
nant, but a third party is punishable
even if she is not: the criminality lies
here in the intention.
A number of people had, from 1861
on, maintained that since the statute
spoke of unlawful abortions, there must
exist lawful ones. Therapeutic abortions
were performed, but their legality was
extremely uncertain till the famous case
of Rex v. Bourne in 1938.
Dr Aleck Bourne was a leading Lon-
don obstetrician and gynaecologist. He
was approached to perform a thera-
peutic abortion on a 14-year-old girl
who had been raped by three soldiers—
two of whom had already been convicted
of rape, the third of attempted rape. At
JT'his article is based on an address
read at a recent Workers’ Educa-
tional Association weekend school in
Newport, Sydney, on “Morals and the
State.”
the request of a number of doctors, and
with the consent of the parents, Dr.
Bourne performed the abortion, free of
charge, in a public hospital and in-
formed the authorities. The case has
been cited as a deliberate “defiance of
the law”. Since no one knew just when,
if at all, abortions were not “unlawful”
the trial is better seen as “less of a
criminal trial than a co-operative effort
by judge, jury, counsel, and witnesses
to create law out of strong but ill-
defined feeling”.
The Crown argued that abortion was
lawful only to save “life”, the defence
that no strict line could be drawn
between “life” and “health”. The de-
fence, while also mentioning a medical
point—that the pelvic bones had not yet
set —relied largely on the mental effect
which would be brought about by the
pregnancy.
In his address to the jury, Mr Justice
Macnaghten stressed that the prosecution
must prove to the satisfaction of the
jury, beyond reasonable doubt, that
Bourne’s act was not done in good
faith for the purpose of preserving the
life of the girl. Where a doctor was of
the view that a child could not be
delivered without the death of the
mother, he was entitled, and indeed it
might be his duty, to perform an opera-
tion. He declared that he found it hard
to distinguish between life and health:
“Life depends upon health. . .” If the
doctor thought that continuance of the
pregnancy would “make the woman a
physical or mental wreck” the jury was
entitled to believe that if he then
operated he did so “for the purpose of
preserving the life” of the mother.
Bourne was acquitted.
The Bourne case clarified the mean-
ing of “therapeutic” abortion, and, quite
clearly, extended it: Doctors now had
two criteria — the duration of “life” and
its quality and the latter leaves some
leeway for bringing in psycho-social
indications.
It is generally believed that an Aus-
tralian court would follow this case, but,
to my knowledge, this has not yet been
tested.
The facts
Tllegal abortions in Australia, as else-
-*• where, are extremely common. Only
the crudest shots in the dark are possible
in guessing just how common: We never
have had an Australian enquiry, hence
have to apply overseas percentages,
which in turn differ widely. Also we
have to distinguish between the abortion
rate for married and unmarried mothers
Kinsey has estimated the latter as
being three abortions to every live
illegitimate birth.
A cautious guess would be to apply
New Zealand figures of 1937, where a
Committee of Inquiry into Problems of
Abortion stated as a “conservative
estimate” that the annual rate of illegal
abortions was 13 per cent. This would
give us 26,000 per annum for Australia,
to which we must add another 24,000
based on the assumption of three
abortions per one illegitimate child
(8000 per year). Thus we get 50,000
illegal abortions per year in Australia.
Percentages derived from US and UK
would give up to 90,000.
The 50,000 figure seems fantastic, but
it refers only to abortions procured by
instruments. It does not include the ad-
ministration of what the act calls “any
noxious thing,” of abortifacient drugs.
The ignorant and the desperate, and even
the informed “just in case it works,” will
buy anything. They may try mustard


baths, gin, cathartic medicines, penny-
royal, aloes, tansy, ergot, or quinine.
Since 15-20 per cent, of abortions are
spontaneous, and since, without there be-
ing any causal link, a girl may have one
of these after taking some “Female
Remedy”, the traffic flourishes. If all
these attempts, which are just as illegal
as the use of instruments, are added it
becomes clear that 50,000 is an ex-
tremely low estimate.
Professional abortionists stick to the
curette, if they are “top men.” Lower in
the range they employ a wide variety of
instruments: knitting needles, wooden or
metal skewers, catheters, sounds, syringes
and the bark of slippery elms.
Mo permanent serious action is taken
against illegal abortionists, though,
when there is a death and an outcry
follows, a drive may take place. But, as
the standard text by John Glaister, “Med-
ical Jurisprudence and Toxicology” puts
it rather primly: “Successful cases do not
engage the attention of the authorities as
a rule.” The law does not differentiate be-
tween the mother in a self-induced abor-
tion, and the abortionist as a third party.
So far as enforcement against mothers is
concerned, it is a completely dead letter.
Juries would not convict; mothers are
the only witnesses against abortionists
when a drive is on; and the feeling,
repudiated by the law and most moral-
ists, that “a woman’s body is her own” is
very widespread. As for abortionists, there
may be a dozen or so convictions a year.
In the capital cities, given some sophis-
tication and contacts and round £BO, it is
not hard to find abortionists who are
qualified medical practitioners, have long-
established practices, and run private
hospitals. Some doctors who would never
dream of performing an illegal abortion
themselves have no hesitation of telling
“worthy” cases where they may get help.
Others get their patients to learn symp-
toms by heart, which, if recited to a
gynaecologist, often lead to an explora-
tory curette.
So far as the police are concerned,
bribery may play some part. But more
important is that the police choose the
lesser evil: Knowing how widespread the
practice is, that it cannot be stamped out,
protected by the difficulties of getting evi-
dence, the police prefer the safety-valve
of the qualified abortionist to the encour-
agement of the back-room butcher:
Arrests do nothing to reduce the despera-
tion of the girls, they would simply send
up the death rate. As for the AMA, its
standard story is that it would not con-
done illegal abortions for a moment —if
only it had the evidence.
Clearly, abortion is sustained by the
desperation of the mothers, their genuine
gratitude for being “fixed up,” but also
by the covert behavior of doctors and
police and the tacit approval of a large
section of the public. The 1939 UK
Report of the Inter-Departmental Com-
mittee on Abortion stated: “It is plain
that the prohibition of the procuring of
abortion has not only failed to prevent
the commission of the crime, but has
caused it to be committed in conditions
of secrecy, often with serious ill-health,
or even death, as a result.”
Legalised abortion means very low
death rates: In Sweden, 1946-53, out of
30,354 abortions there were 21 fatalities,
that is 0.7 per 1000, and the rate at pre-
sent is 0.2 per 1000. No serious work as
to psychological shock effects is known
to me, and, in any case, this would very
much depend on one’s acceptance of some
general psychological theory since the
whole concept of “shock” is very slippery.
But generally speaking, it is obvious
and indeed tautological to state that
“shock” will depend on previous guilt
feelings about sex. There is little doubt
that even for knowledgeable city-girls the
main stress lies in the uncertainty of the
know-how, or rather know-whom: Abor-
tionists have, through an underground
network of gossip and rumour, a definite
ranking in reputations. In a semi-affluent
society, perhaps, the argument based on
direct discrimination through poverty is
less impressive. Rather, it is discrimina-
tion through differential contacts and
sophistication but both of these are
conditioned by class and geography. The
rural girl; the ignorant and isolated; the
guilt-ridden, it is these who are more
likely to go to a back-room butcher.
The arguments
npo see that something which is seen as
A immoral does not thereby automati-
cally fall in the sphere of law requires
some sophistication. Most of the more
propagandist arguments around abortion
simply identify morality and law: If its
evil, let’s keep it illegal. Moreover, while
all more reasonable arguments do distin-
guish between morality and law, they do
not do so in the same way.
Perhaps there would be agreement that
two arguments against legalising abortion
cannot be sustained unless one embraces a
particular moral, and, indeed, theological
code and is willing to say it should be
legally binding on non-believers: “Man’s
control over his own life and body is a
gift of God, and not absolute” is clearly
a theological point of view. And so is:
“A good end, such as saving the life of
the mother, can never morally justify a
bad means, such as directly killing a
foetus.”
The latter, in its most rigoristic form,
is the position of the Catholic Church. It
admits no exception whatsoever so long
as the killing is indeed direct. If there is
a choice between the life of the mother
and the foetus, and the mother does not
have anything else wrong with her which
would justify indirect abortion, no Catho-
lic doctor is morally permitted to perform
the operation. The loophole, pretty
narrow as it is, lies in the notion of
double effect: If an act has two effects,
one good, one bad, you can, given suffi-
ciently grave reasons, go ahead with the
good one though the bad one is foreseen
—and indeed inevitable. But the bad ef-
fect must not be willed, rather simply per-
mitted to take place. For instance, if the
mother suffers from a malignant ovarian
tumour you might have to perform a hys-
terectomy: The direct good intention is
the removal of the tumour, the indirect
foreseen, but unintended, evil conse-
quence permitted to take place is the
death of the foetus. Or when the preg-
nancy is extra-uterine, for example, in the
Fallopian tubes: if permitted to take place
there will be a haemorrhage and mother
and child will die; the act of clamping the
arteries (good intended) also inevitably
produces the unintended evil of indirectly
killing the foetus.
—in lay language—is the Catholic
moral position. As long as it is not
made the basis for erecting some law or
opposing some alteration in the law, it is
simply irrelevant to a discussion of lega-
lised abortion. One may, if one wishes,
challenge it, or may point out that the
Church’s position is not necessarily
shared by its flock living in a secularised
society: A recent US Poll showed that 52
per cent thought Mrs Finkbine did right
in having her abortion, 32 per cent
wrong, and 16 per cent had no opinion.
The religious break-up was:
Catholics Protestants
Right 33% 56%
Wrong 49% 27%
No opinion .... 18% 17%
No survey can be in principle relevant
to a theological argument, though it is
highly relevant if we want to know how
far such arguments are accepted either by
the faith they are intended for, or in
general.
There remain three other arguments
against legalising abortion which those
who hold them usually claim not to be
specifically theological.
The first is an appeal to the need for
population. The 1937 NZ Report put it
thus: “The modern desire for pleasure and
freedom from responsibility has led many
to lose sight of the ideal of the family as
a service to the State . . With a world
population of 3115 million, an annual in-
crease of 50 million or 1.8 per cent, and
a predicted doubling in 40 years, this
must be considered a dead horse. (In any
case it would have to be shown, not just
assumed, that legalised abortions univer-
sally de crease population.)
It is the second and third argument


which seems to me to be at the centre
of any reasonable discussion.
They may be called the “human-at-
birth” and the “social-consequerices-of-
the-sanctity-of-life” arguments.
The “human-at-birth” argument asserts
that, from the moment of conception, the
foetus is a human being with the same
rights as any grown human beings. Killing
the foetus then is fundamentally the
murder of the innocent.
Now, here I think, the Catholic
Church has indeed seized on a crucial
issue: It is an issue which many, if not
most, supporters of abortion on moral
grounds and those in favor of legalised
abortion simply avoid. They do this by
loose talk about “A woman has a full
right to dispose of her body,” or “Human
beings are not cattle,” or “A woman’s
unborn child is hers, and hers alone.”
Clearly all these and similar slogans just
ignore the point at issue: Is abortion a
purely self-regarding act, affecting only
the woman? Or are the rights of another
person, the child, involved?
If the latter, then it is not, and can-
not be, simply a question of her body.
And there is at least partial, but strong
support, for the view that at some stage
most of us treat the unborn child as
“human” by the fact that no responsible
advocate of abortion refuses to draw a
line between the viable unborn and the
non-viable unborn child: No one, to my
knowledge, advocates that abortions
should be permitted once the child, if
born, could live, that is roughly after the
7th month. The difference, of course,
lies as to where the line is drawn: In one
case at the point of conception, in the
other at the point of viability.
Religious opponents of abortion need
not add any statement about souls and
baptisms, though they may well do so . . .
in which case these again become speci-
fically theological.
I>ut how does one decide just when the
13 foetus is “human”? Clearly, one point
of view sees “human” as something pre-
sent fully and suddenly; the other thinks
in terms of a gradual process of acquiring
what for it are human attributes. From
the second point of view for instance, as
long as a foetus felt no pain, it just could
not be human, and hence could be sacri-
ficed without killing it. Other criteria
would be such things as discernible capa-
city to move; appearance (hence, of
course, the related argument about
“monsters”) and so on. Any definition
of a moment of “humanity” must be
arbitrary simply because there is in
fact no agreement on what the “essence”
of “humanity” consists of.
So far as this argument is supposed
(as it is) to be related to what most people
in fact feel, and does not rely, as it does
not in its more respectable formulations,
on specific theological doctrines, the
treatment given to spontaneous abortions
seems relevant. These are, for the most
case, accidental: But most people as dis-
tinct from, for example, Catholic hos-
pital practice—do not treat them as acci-
dental deaths, especially if they occur in
the very early stages of pregnancy. Most
people do not weep over them, bury them
with rites, announce that a “death” has
taken place: We don't say “Her child
died” but rather “She lost her child”.
Putting it differently: the definition of
“human” is arbitrary—any definition will
contain moral elements. To escape this
deadlock it is necessary to find out not
what a human being “essentially is” but
what a given people in fact take it to be.
If so, the opponents of legalising abor-
tion must show that most people in a
given society in fact agree with their defi-
nition of “human-from-birth.” They
do not seem to me to have done this.
One may take another line: Assuming
that you hold the “human-from-birth”
view, that you think a foetus has full
rights from the moment of conception . . .
what then? It is still open to you to argue
that no one has an unrestricted right to
life, not even the foetus when its right
to life threatens someone else’s. More
generally, what the standard Catholic—
and, more generally, Christian—argument
assumes is agreement not only on human
status for the foetus, but also on the
nature of rights, it assumes a whole par-
ticular theory of rights.
If these rights are conceived of as legal
ones, and the foetus is treated as human,
one may also ask whether it has any
moral and/ or legal ditties? Is it an object
of responsibility? If not, clearly its status
is not just like that of “any” human be-
ing but a very special one of having only
rights and no duties. And some societies
act in terms of duties of the unborn: “If
a pregnant Dahomeyan woman is ill, the
foetus is formally tried, and if it is found
guility of having caused her illness, it is
aborted in order to cure the mother."
[G. Devereux, “A Study of Abortion in
Primitive Societies,” p. B.]
TCTow to the “social consequences of the
sanctity of life” argument: Here it is
said that it is the function of the state to
protect the safety of its citizens, that if one
kind of life, that is, innocent human life,
is not taken as safe then respect for the
sanctity of adult lives will also decline.
The important, and correct, point in this
view is that it draws attention to the
social consequences of a private act. Pro-
abortionists often simply ignore these.
Let us assume that the function of the
state is indeed as described (though, to
be sure, neither Marxists nor Anarchists
would agree.) Now, two kinds of things
can be meant: On the non-theological
plane you can argue that one threat to
life, abortion, does constitute at least a
potential threat to other forms of life.
Here you have to find out what most
people mean by “taking a life.” You
might end up with only the murder rate.
And it would then, in principle, be possi-
ble to find out whether in countries where
abortion has been completely legalised
(Poland, Russia, Japan) or in those where
there is partial legalisation (Sweden, Den-
mark, Finland) there has been a rise in
murders and whether this is indeed con-
nected with the legalisation of abortion.
I do not know of any evidence this is so.
On the theological plane, you are of
course free to define “taking a life” as
widely as you wish, to include suicide,
euthanasia, sterilisation, and so on. You
could then try to show that where legal-
ised abortion exists such things are also
on the increase. But, even if this were
done, it would, of course, not prove that
most people would naturally take an in-
crease in, sa , suicides, as evidence that
“respect for the sanctity of life” has de-
clined. And, again, it has not been done.
So, it seems, we are simply on the cru-
cial issue of the effects on society—left
with an a priori argument: That all “forms
of life” are “equal”; that people who
abort in fact think they are taking a life,
in the same way in which, if sane, they
are quite well aware of having done so
when they have murdered a one-year old
child or an adult, and that therefore . . .
This surely, is begging the question
which is here an empirical one. On those
grounds you might just as well argue
that mothers who break the anti-abortion
laws thereby (like s.p. bookies) show
their contempt for “the” law and hence
are more likely to murder their husbands
or commit other illegal acts, apart from
abortions, than mothers who carry their
child to term. Does anyone say this?
Any honest plea for a reform of the
abortion laws—quite futile in Australia
today—should start from a plain value-
preference: The life, happiness, and
health of the mother are considered as
more valuable than the life (if any) of
the foetus. This preference, like all others,
is not subject to any proof of being
“right”; one might prove it is demanded.
Neither the “human-at-birth” argument
nor the “social-results-of-the-sanctity-of
life” argument hold up under critical ex-
amination. But both are crucial argu-
ments. If indeed they could be demon-
strated to hold, without smuggling in
special theological and non-empirical
assumptions, then there would be no case
for abortion.


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
THE PERSECUTION OF SOVIET
JEWS
I cannot help but condemn the article
by Isi Leibler, published in The Bulletin
on September 29, about the alleged per-
secution of Jews in the Soviet Union.
The author of the article seems to be
engaged in the worst kind of cynicism
when he compares the attitude towards
Jews in the USSR with that which existed
in the fascist Germany and German
occupied territories when millions of
Jews were shot and gassed. He seems to
have forgotten how many Jews were
saved by the Soviet Army, :n 1943-1945,
from concentration camps of the fascists.
Following his cynical line he tries to
select “facts” and “events”, exaggerates
such “facts” and makes general conclu-
sions that allegedly there is a discrimina-
tion against the Jews in the USSR. Since
he is speaking of national discrimination
he has to look for it not in the Soviet
Union but in some other places where as
it is well known to everybody there exists
racial and national enmity in the most
naked and painful manner at present.
The Soviet laws and practice are con-
trary to any racial or national dissension.
The equality of nationalities—it does not
matter how big or small they are—is one
of the greatest gains of the great October
Socialist Revolution of 1917.
It is not by chance that dirty figment
by Isi Leibler does rely not upon facts
but false allegations. Reference to the
proposed deportation to labor camps of
Soviet Jews in 1953 is a pure fabrication
by Leibler.
There is a full freedom for every man
and every nationality to exercise any
religion in the USSR. It is known that
the Church is separated from the State
in the Soviet Union, and that all re-
ligious groups maintain their churches
on means of believers. Therefore the de-
mand to supply Jewish synagogues in
the USSR with requisites from the State
budget.is not understandable.
Isi Leibler is not even ashamed of
impudent lies asserting that the Soviet
Jews are allegedly deprived of the pos-
sibility to have the unleavened bread for
Passover. Yehuda Leib Levin, the
Moscow Chief Rabbi, said recently in
the interview with a correspondent of
Novosti Press agency that the authorities
did not interfere with performance of
religious rites and that Jews could buy
matzoh in shops or bake it at home.
Another Isi Leibler lie concerns the
alleged absence of Yiddish Press or
Yiddish editions in the Soviet Union.
His ignorance is appalling. In the Soviet
Union there exists the Jewish Autono-
mous Region in the Far East established
as far back as in 1928 for Jews to settle
down there if they wished. And the
capital of this Region the town of
Birobidjan has got its own newspapers
issued in Yiddish. In 1959 commemora-
ting the 100th jubilee of Sholom Aleihem,
outstanding Jewish writer, all his works
have been published in Yiddish in the
Soviet Union. It is a fact that about 12
million copies of books of Jewish authors
have been published in the USSR over
the past five to six years.
Frankly speaking, the Jews in the
USSR are enjoying sometimes even better
conditions compared with other Soviet
nationalities. So there are 2,268,000 Jews
in the USSR that is a little more than one
per cent of the whole Soviet population.
But the number of Jewish research work-
ers in 1960 was 33,529 out of a total
354,158 —nearly 10 per cent.
I do not want even to discuss other
ridiculous and ignorant allegations by Isi
Leibler. His article is full of them.
The Jews in the Soviet Union are
recognised as a nationality having their
own autonomy. Could Leibler cite any
other country (I do not speak of Israel)
where there is a state autonomy for
Jewish population?
In trying to prove that the discrimina-
tion against Jews is continuing now in
measures against economic crimes, Isi
Leibler seems to protect criminals and
thieves who are fortunately not very
numerous in our country. The Soviet
laws are applicable in the °ame manner
to Russians, Tartars, Georgians, Jews
or members of other nationalities. If
crimes are committed so the justice must
prevail and the punishment depends not
upon the nationality but upon the crime
itself.
Jews are not confined now to any pre-
revolutionary “pales”. They are entitled
as any Soviet nationality to life and w'ork
where they like. And their achievements
are great.
Concluding I would like to point out
that Leiblers will not achieve the goal
they put to themselves, i.e. to distort with
their smearing writings—the real facts
about the life of Soviet Jewry. The lies
have short life.
V. GAMAZEICHSHIKOV
Press-Attache of the USSR Embassy
in Australia.
Canberra.
TRANSFIELD ART PRIZE
Sir.
With reference to Max Harris’ state-
ment in “Life with Father” appearing in
The Bulletin of September 29, if Mr
Harris had checked his facts he would
have found that the first Transfield
Award was won by Jon Molvig whose
portrait of Mr Edgar Williams appeared
on the cover of the same issue.
VALERIE MORRIS
Clay field ( Queensland)
HOW “MEANJIN JIN” BEGAN
Sir,
In The Bulletin of September 22
Peter Kelly says “Like Topsy, ‘Meanjin’
has just growed in size, circulation and
affluence”. The idea that a journal ex-
pands by some kind of Spontaneous Gen-
eration independently of any act of the
human will is too flimsy to take seriously.
In any case it is not true and consigns
to oblivion an important phase of liter-
ary history.
"'Meanjin Papers” started as a small
poetry magazine devoted to the verse of
four Queensland poets. By 1941 it was
practically bankrupt. Clem Christesen,
on the advice of my bookseller, came to
me for financial help for this publication
of which he was editor. After discussion
I guaranteed him against loss, without
limit. On his statements I privately de-
cided that I could not lose more than
£lOO p.a. and I was prepared to lose
that.
Obviously an exclusively poetry journal
was a poor commercial venture and it
was agreed to publish a quarterly of
mixed prose and verse running to 64
pages, eight times the original size, and
that disposes of the Topsy trick as to
that. I do not know what had happened
before Christesen came to me but he
handed me two crumpled quarto sheets
covered with a muddle of names and
addresses, many ruled out, with others
written in, and much interlineation. After
we had done a bit of sorting out and had
written to some people and wiped others,
dead or gone astray, we ended up with
less than 40 subscribers. So what the
original circulation was nobody knows
and of those who did actually receive the
journal many never paid; I know I was
one and I did not. It was sent to me
with no covering letter and I had no time
even to glance at it.
I had, at the time, a highly trained
woman scientific assistant to whom I
handed over the care of the business
records which covered in detail every
phase of subscriptions, printing, station-
ery and distribution: this part of the work
was carried out with meticulous care
and accuracy. It is needless to say more
than that we rapidly built up a big sub-
scription list by every known device, and
in the three years, more or less, I man-
aged the paper we never lost a sub-
scriber. What the total figure was I
cannot now remember but it was at least
sufficient to create a profit in 1943.
On the editorial side Christesen natur-
ally had a free hand. As an editor he was
very good and I must say I admired his
quick and almost invariably sound judge-
ments on MSS and he gave the Austra-
lian public easily the best literary journal
of the time.
The reason was this. When I gave
him financial security he was able to


solicit material from authors within and
outside Australia with certainty of publi-
cation assured to them. This was of
cardinal importance as in this way with
first-rate material he quickly built up a
very presentable journal. I started manag-
ing “Meanjin Papers” in 1942; at the end
of that year we had lost £2O. By the
middle of 1943, the trend of the circula-
tion was such that a profit for the year
was inevitable, so we decided to pay the
contributors a flat rate of 10/- a piece; it
wasn't much, but it was a portent of
better things to come. So that, by scien-
tific management and subsidised editorial
effort, the journal’s prestige, quality, fin-
ancial status and circulation by mid-
-1943 had improved out of all hope.
To suggest that all this was a fortuitous
Topsy phenomenon is contrary to fact.
In effect, directly by financial help and
inspired management and indirectly by
editorial control free from constraint and
financial worry, 1 made “Meanjin” what
it was when Melbourne University Press
took it over. Had I had it longer, as I
wrote to Christesen when we parted,
I could have presented him with a very
valuable property.
I have since seen only two numbers,
sent by friends. One contained an edi-
torial which purported to be an account
of “Meanjin’s”’ early years. I was not
mentioned.
In all this I just want to proclaim the
truth which gets a rough handling in the
slapdash of journalism.
J. V. DUHJG
St Lucia (Queensland).
JUPP REPLIES
Sir.
Few of the correspondents replying to
my article on the “New Left” (The
Bulletin , September 22) have raised
matters of substance, though some
minor points have been made. To deal
with them first. My assumption that the
Adelaide Left Club was under “Outlook”
influence was based on the initiating role
played in it by Mr lan Turner. If it is,
in fact, not factionally committed, then I
wish it a long life.
The omission of Mr Rozenbes’ “Social
Democratic Group” was the product of
a general ignorance in Melbourne as to
who comprises the membership of that
organisation. As far as Mr. Mathews’
objection that the Fabian Society is not
primarily anti-Communist, I agree en-
entirely and deplore, with him, the recent
attacks on the Society by “News-Weekly”
and others who should know that it is
also not pro-Communist.
As for Mr. Goldbloom being a “fine
man”, a point also made by correspon-
dent McDonald, I know little of that
gentleman’s private life. But publicly he
has identified himself with Communist
causes for many years, travels the world
at the expense of the World Peace Coun-
cil and so on. The chief cause of Mel-
bourne “New Left” antagonism to Mr
Goldbloom was his refusal to condemn,
or even mention, Soviet atomic tests when
they were restarted last year.
The more substantial objection of
Messrs. McDonald and Cassidy, that the
“new New Left” is not leftwing or even
socialist, is important because it high-
lights the differences between the social-
democratic and Marxist orientations
which I was trying to underline.
Mr Cassidy seeme to have swallowed
the Trotskyist hagiography. Why does he
only include Holman and Hughes among
Australian social-democrats? Curtin,
Chifley and Evatt were all in the same
ideological camp. His “list” of Europeans
is about as representative as a list of
Marxists confined to Beria, Rakosi, Yez-
hov and Enver Hoxha.
Mr. McDonald I take more seriously,
because he himself is engaged in a bitter
fight forced upon him by the Communist
minority in his Union. He may be cor-
rect in criticising my concentration on
the struggle to draw the line between Stal-
inism and social-democracy. He misun-
derstands my objection to “Aldermaston
marches” in Sydney. Tactically I think
they are far less significant than their
counterparts in Britain for a host of rea-
sons. My assessment of the Sydney Left
is based on regular attendance at their
conferences and correspondence with
Sydney residents. If they do have as
much potential for radical reformism as
the Melbourne Fabians and ALP Club,
then Mr McDonald’s strictures may be
justified. But my personal feeling is that
they are sunk in their sectarian morass,
in which “lefist” postures have become
meaningless routines.
JAMES JUPP
North Cari ton (Victoria).
QUEENSLAND’S “RUNNING SORE”
Sir,
We note with concern your editorial
(Bulletin, September 27), which re-
peats Peter Kelly’s charge that the Vic-
torian ALP is “little more than a Com-
munist front”. To disagree with the Vic-
torian Central Executive is legitimate, but
to exaggerate its faults is neither intelli-
gent, nor useful for the sake of reform.
The Victorian Labor Party, is NOT
“little more than a Communist front.”
Firstly, on “peace matters” ther_ is no
unanimity in the Executive. Indicative
of this was the firm refusal of the Vic-
torian President (Mr R. W. Holt) and
State Secretary (Mr C. S. Wyndham) to
take part in the 1962 Communist Hiro-
shima Day activities, despite much beg-
ging from the organisers. Peter Kelly
should realise that it’s a pretty poor
Communist-front organisation, whose
chief executive officers won’t play ball.
On unity tickets. We do not deny, and
have openly and consistently criticised
the VCE for the tolerance of some of its
members (certainly not all) in regard to
unity tickets. But if the VCE has not
followed Federal rules on unity tickets,
and if some of its members have dis-
couraged certain ALP men in their op-
position to such tickets in their unions,
this does not substantiate Peter Kelly’s
charge.
On “endorsement of Communist
foreign policy”. There are several points
of foreign policy on which the ALP and
Communist Party superficially agree, but
there are also several points on which the
Government is in basic agreement with
them.
Undoubtedly, the executive does show
some undesirable traits of “fellow travel-
ling,” but in overstating the case against
the VCE, your editorial can only frustrate
the attempts of genuine Labor people
working for improvement in Victoria.
Perhaps Mr Kelly should define “little
more than a Communist front.” On our
present understanding of these terms, we
cannot consider the Victorian Labor
Party fits this description.
Rodney Allen, Peter Fisher, Peter
Samuel, Norman Fisher, Leon Glezer,
Executive members of the Melbourne
University
ALP
Club.
Victoria.
SANTAMARIA MOVES NORTH
Sir.
There is much in Mr. Fennelly’s letter
(The Bulletin, October 6) that is
beneath comment. This is particularly
the case in his implication that the Mel-
bourne Catholic Radio and Television
Board would lend itself to a shabby
manoeuvre in sending correspondence to
Archbishop Duhig at a time when he
was unable to consider its contents. The
implication is gratuitous and, as has been
proved in relation to some of Mr Fennel-
ly’s other “facts”, concocted.
Mr Fennelly’s present purpose is ob-
viously to get “Sunday Magazine” put off
the air, claiming that it is a political and
not a religious program.
Leaving aside Fr. Cahir’s contribution
and concentrating exclusively on Mr
Santamaria’s, the following is a list of the
topics which have been dealt with in the
last quarter. A perusal of the titles will
indicate that they are all subjects which
can properly be discussed in a religious
program of Catholic origin.
October 1: The Golden Jubilee of Archbishop
Mannix; September 30: Japanese-Australian
“Waifs”; September 23: Political Aspects of
the Education Issue; September 16: Cardinal
Gilroy’s Proposals on Education; September
9: Profits and Practices of Pharmaceutical
Firms; September 2; The Visit of King and
Queen of Thailand and South East Asian
Foreign Policy;. August 26: No session;
August 19: Our Relations With Europe and the
United States; August 12: The Budget;
August 5: Indonesian Take-Over of West
New Guinea; July 29: Hong Kong Refugees;
July 22: The Captive Nations of Europe;
July 15: Interview with Robert Speaight -
Discussion of St. Thomas More as portrayed
in “A Man For All Seasons”; July 8: The
Archbishop Mannix Testimonial.
This is a typical cross-section of a
program w'hich has now been in existence
for two years. Some of these subjects are
on exclusively religious matters. All are
concerned with moral principles, even if
some do have political aspects. If a reli-
gious program should not concern itself
with anything which has a political as-
pect it obviously could not deal with the
Hong Kong refugees, the Japanese waifs,
Cardinal Gilroy’s approach to the NSW
Government on education, and so on.
By the way, it is interesting to note
that Mr Fennelly claims to know the at-
titude of Archbishop O’Donnell and
“some other members” of the Brisbane
Committee. Who IS Mr Fennellv?
B. J. MULLINS.
State President
National Civic Council
Brisbane.


REVIEWS
THEATRE
AN EXERCISE IN CLICHES
MAX HARRIS
The Cousin From Fiji, Flinders Street
Revue Coy, Union Theatre,
Adelaide.
A N Australian repertoire of modern
musical comedy is beginning to
form “Lola Montez”, “The Senti-
mental Bloke”, and “The Ballad of
Angels’ Alley” as the historical equi-
valent of “The Doll”. Now a musical
version of Norman Lindsay’s “The
Cousin from Fiji” has been launched in
Adelaide with suitable fanfares, prodi-
gious expense, a monumental cast and the
imprimatur of the Sage of Springwood
himself. Perhaps it was because of
having to keep an eye on the endorse-
ment of Lindsay and his family that
Lois Ramsey and Allen Babbage produc-
ed a script of interminable length and in
Ivor Novello idiom, which sounded more
like an exercise in cliches than in Aus-
tralian folksy. Our Glad would have
revelled in it.
Given a script that did not attempt to
achieve the wit, pace, lustiness, or the
sophistication of “Angel’s Alley”, and
which failed to capture the charming
ingenuousness of “The Bloke”, the odds
were stacked against a production which
lacked nothing in technical skill, intel-
ligent casting and a modicum of ex-
tremely tuneful music.
The difference between the new and
the old musical comedy is not only the
result of changed concepts but of a
different sense of tempo and sentiment.
The world of Jeanette MacDonald and
Nelson Eddy still survives within the
framework of musical comedy, but it
is lightly set in as divertissement, as a
relief to the rapid wit and dynamic
choreography of the revitalised musical.
The desperately pre-war sogginess of
Ruth Barrett's lyrics and a remorseless
insistence on the frequent importance of
ye olde love song prevented “The
Cousin from Fiji” from developing
spark, spirit and pace. The comic pos-
sibilities of Norman Lindsay’s quaintly
old-fashioned saga of provincial Ballarat
were never realised.
Yet, sadly enough, the production had
a great deal to commend it. The acting,
particularly the difficult straight work
of Bob Moore and Desi Moore, was on
a high level of competence and profes-
sionalism. There were a few cunningly
amusing scenes, for instance, a social
in a church hall which was disrupted by
the performance of a pagan marriage
dance by the cousin from Fiji.
Above all, the production was lifted
by set designs of brilliant originality and
diversity from Ostoja-Kotkowska. Using
the projector equipment of Derek Jolly,
a period daguerrotype effect was created
for the streets and interiors of Ballarat,
while, for one scene, some of the more
lascivious Lindsay drawings provided an
immense backdrop for the Union stage.
Having commuted from State to State
during the entire 1962 theatre season, I
am firmly convinced that Ostoja-Kotk-
owska is completely in a class on his
own in the designing field. But there the
credit balance comes to an end.
It seems such a pity that the cousin
from Fiji chose to settle down at Blue
Hills.
THE WHOLE ART OF DANCING
Indian Song and Dance Theatre.
Union Theatre. Sydney.
Ballet Australia. Elizabethan Theatre.
Sydney.
I>y the time this review appears, there
will be only three nights left on
which to see the Indian artists who make
up the “Indian Song and Dance Theatre.”
If you have any taste for the ultimate
stuff of art; or the willingness to explore
profound new pleasures in song and
dance, then drop everything and go at
once to the Union Theatre.
Let no cachet of “highbrow”, nor any
memory of earlier, rarefied Indian danc-
ers deter you: this particular entertain-
ment is a landmark in our local experi-
ence. From the moment that the extra-
ordinarily beautiful Miss Yamini Krish-
namurti begins to dance, these dedicated
artists take you by the hand and lead
you into whole new realms of vital,
earthy, passionate living.
Her triumph is to combine tremendous
sensuality and the revelation of passion
with the essential refinement of art. Her
dancing demands honesty from the be-
holder; the appeal and drive of the body
is not disguised far from it but we
are shown by a great artist that love,
and loving, is perhaps the greatest and
most mysterious of all beauties.
With Miss Krishnamurti, appear a
folk-singer of Bengal (Mr. Chowdhury),
and two virtuosi of Indian instruments:
Mr. Keramatullah Khan who plays the
tabla, an Indian rhythm instrument of
two drums capable of an astounding
range of percussive sounds, and Mr. Rad-
hika Maitra, who plays the sarod, a
stringed instrument which seemed to me
every bit as subtle and even more ex-
citing than the classical guitar.
Mr Khan and Mr Maitra joined in
what, in ignorance, I can only describe
as a “classical jam session” in which
each drove the other to further and more
skilful feats of improvisation. It was an
astounding performance one that any
true jazz lover, I imagine, would eat
alive. As for Mr Chowdhury’s singing,
not only is the voice a superb instrument,
there is a love of people, a charm of
gesture that is irresistible.
At the sadly neglected Elizabethan
Theatre, that virile organisation,
Ballet Australia, last week mounted its
latest productions for a too-brief season.
Since I have always been somewhat
heretical about ballet —and pretty much
against ballet that tries to do the things
that drama does much better I was
most pleased by the opening piece, Over-
ture for Dancers (choreographer Valrene
Tweedie) which amusingly set the exer-
cises and rehearsals of dancers to charm-
ingly uncomplicated Stravinsky music.
Depression, fatigue, inspiration, conceit,
sweat all the bugbears of the dancer
■ — were strung together into a pretty, ir-
resistible chain of movement.
On the other hand, “Jephthah's Daugh-
ter”, telling the highly-charged Biblical
story of a hero who has to sacrifice his
favorite daughter, did not come off
for my money, because it was trying to


SOUTH. YARRA "GROSVENOR", 80 WALSH STREET.
SUB-DIVISION.
AUCTION
Thursday Next, 25th October, at 3 p.m.
5 SUPERB BUILDING ALLOTMENTS WITHIN 2 MILES OF CITY
• Each exceedng 7,200 square feet in area.
• Many fine trees and shrubs
• Suitable private home or pair of flats or maisonettes.
• Terms: 1/3rd deposit, balance end of 3 years, interest at 6£% per annum.
• Brochures and Plans available.
In conjunction with
C. H. BEAUCHAMP, 87 Queen Street, Melbourne.
R. T.
MU 9292
EDGAR & SON
108 QUEEN STREET
MELBOURNE
67-3371.
P T Y.
LTD.
MU 1000
do something outside the proper range
of dance.
Coralie Hinkley’s “A Day of Dark-
ness”, which is founded on Lorca’s “The
House of Bernard Alba”, began shakily,
without much of the horror and fire of
the Lorca play. Towards the end, how-
ever, with such credible balletic elements
as love and death entering the dance, the
dancing acquired more meaning and
great force.
For me, the most satisfying creation
by far was Judith Burgess’ work, “Chil-
dren of the Ashes”, to music by Bartok.
It remains only for me to make my
regular complaint about Ballet Australia
-—that their seasons should be longer
even if it means the Elizabethan Theatre
Trust paying them a few hundreds to
cover losses.
KEVON KEMP
A TASTE OF DELANEY
A Taste of Honey. Shelagh Delaney.
Theatre ’62, Perth.
fFms slice of life-in-the-raw offers some
A unusual treatment of what are basic-
ally stock characters. Helen is a good-
time girl with the proverbial heart of
gold. She is full of fun, completely irre-
sponsible and, for a change, utterly un-
sentimental. Her neglect of her teenage
daughter, Jo, amounts to criminal folly
but while she fails to understand her
child she loves her and is fiercely proud
of her independence.
Geoff, whom Helen describes as “that
dirty little pansy”, becomes a substitute
mother for Jo when she is expecting a
child by a colored sailor and the rela-
tionship between these two is the best
thing in the play.
Miss Delaney sees her characters
clearly and offers them with more honesty
than we often get. The chief weakness
of the play lies, in spite of its earthiness,
in a basically sentimental view of the
people and situations she portrays. She
offers the wellworn premise that people
are all fundamentally good and that cir-
cumstances are to blame for immoral or
discreditable behavior. It seems a pity
that she should need to justify her char-
acters; they are interesting enough and
real enough not to need excuses.
Frank Baden-Powell has given the
play thoughtful, meticulous production.
It was well mounted and well lit and
Mr Baden-Fowell drew well-nigh flaw-
less performances from the small cast.
Joan Bruce (just returned from Sydney
and “The Ham Funeral”) was completely
captivating in the easily overplayed role
of Helen, yet her performance was
matched by the equally polished Jo
(Angela Watts) and Geoff (Bruce Wil-
liams). Alan Cassell’s Jimmie, the father
of Jo’s child, was the best character per-
formance I have seen for months.
Finally, John Lenton, who as Peter,
Helen’s current husband, could easily
have been lost among so much excel-
lence, gave a positive, forthright perform-
ance and achieved the rare theatrical
feat of conveying complete intoxication
without flamboyance or burlesque.
MARY LORD
HENRY JAMES SMILES
The Aspern Papers. Union Theatre.
Melbourne.
Henry James story, which is the
A basis of this play, deals with a push-
ing literary man’s intrusion upon the
privacy of a very old lady. She was
once romantically attached to a great
writer, now long dead. To both literary
man and old lady the writer was, and
is, “a very” god to be served, and (James
smiles) used, with appropriate proprie-
torial devotion. Between the two stands
the old lady’s niece, a somewhat pathe-
tic creature, who has no god, but is ripe
for sacrifice.
The scale of the story is small, and the
treatment light; the result is a delightful
and delicate comedy, not the melodrama
almost any other writer would have pro-
duced. It is also essentially dramatic.
With the wisdom of hindsight we may
say that it is ideally suited to theatrical
treatment.
This adaptation by Michael Redgrave
is highly successful. It is not, in formal
terms, the equal of the original, because
its action is somewhat cluttered up with
irrelevant material, but it catches the
spirit of the story remarkably well.
Raymond Westwell’s production with
the Union Theatre Repertory Company
is distinguished by some of the best
acting we have seen in Melbourne this
year. Joan MacArthur invests Miss
Tina, the niece, with a pale-eccentric
charm that is most touching, and Fred-
erick Parslow’s portrayal of the literary
man is a splendid tour de force. Sheila
Florance is admirable as the old lady,
and the supporting players are good.
Anne Fraser’s set is brilliantly evocative.
JAMES MURPHY
FILMS
PONTI'S TRIPLE
BILL
Boccaccio 70. Lido, Sydney.
“I> OCCACCIO 70” displays the talents of
three leading Italian film directors,
while its title displays the shrewdness of
its producer, Carlo Ponti. Presumably
(though the film itself makes no refe-
rence to it) the three stories it comprises
are meant to show the sort of thing that
Boccaccio might write if he lived in the
seventh decade of the 20th century
the “70” in the title allows the film eight
clear years before it sounds dated.
Though it is hard to find the spirit of
Boccaccio in two out of the three
episodes, one peg is as good as another
to hang a composite film on, and the
name Boccaccio conveys the desired hint
of forbidden delights.
The best of the three episode is the
one directed by Vittorio De Sica. It is
also the only one that might be called at
a stretch Boccaccian in spirit. It has the
right mood of robustly uncensorious baw-
diness, and it is also the only one of
the three that gives one a real feeling of
contact with humanity. Its rich gallery of
village characters may not have the ab-
solute reality of the people in “A Kind
of Loving”, for example, but they are
at least warm, full-blooded caricatures.
Sophia Loren occupies the centre of
the action as an uninhibited Neapolitan
sideshow attendant who is building up
a nest egg by raffling her favors. She falls
in love with a handsome young farmer
who shows his disapproval of her business
activities by stealing her caravan and
driving it wildly across the countryside
while she and the fortunate but still un-
rewarded raffle winner are still inside it.
Convinced, she impulsively buys off the


winner (a timid little sacristan who is
obviously more relieved than disap-
pointed) with her savings.
De Sica handles all this with wonder-
ful flourish and gusto. Loren harking
back to the sort of lusty, picaresque
roles she so often played in her early
movies, shows all the more forcibly how
much she has matured as an actress since
those days.
Director Federico Fellini’s contribu-
tion to the film is a tumultuous, technic-
ally brilliant fantasy about a neurotic re-
former who conducts an obsessed cam-
paign against a giant-sized billboard dis-
playing a leggy, reclining glamor girl.
The greater part of the episode is a
bewildering barrage of sensations, with
complex crowd scenes, stereophonic ef-
fects, zoom-shoots, panning-shots, close-
shots, long-shots and trick-shots all com-
bining to take one's breath and judgment
away.
The climax, when the reformer’s mind
finally goes, is a fantastic dream-sequence
in which the enormous billboard figure
comes to equally enormous life and tor-
ments her tormentor. But as so often
happens when film makers call in the
special effects department, this sequence
goes on too long, and slows the film’s
impetus.
The remaining episode, directed by
Luchino Visconti, is a tasteless and
tedious stretch of celluloid. The chief
participants are an unsavory young
aristocrat and his wife, who is also the
source of his wealth. The husband has
been exposed as a client of top-price call
girls. A quantity of smartly cynical dis-
cussion ends with the wife taking over
the call girls’ job (as far as her husband
is concerned) at the same price.
We are far from Boccaccio here.
Whatever his view of life and love may
have been it was certainly not patholo-
gical.
MARTIN LONG
ART
IMPROBABLE ASSEMBLAGE
Stephen Walker. Farmer’s Blaxland
Galleries, Sydney.
Sam Fullbrook. The Macquarie Gal-
leries, Sydney.
The Mendel Collection. David Jones
Art Gallery, Sydney.
rpHE tall standing forms, two out of five
A metal-covered to follow every hol-
low gouged out of the wood, belong not
so much to the world of figurative ex-
pression but to the elemental carving of
natural force. These logs twisted by
growth, pared away by the action of
water have received the careful shaping
of the chisel; the image is superimposed.
Even the metallic skin seems to be an
effort to cover the signs of the first pro-
cess with a new tactile dimension.
Stephen Walker is highly conscious of
the powerful turn of concave and con-
vex surface, the transition of plane spiral-
ling almost Baroque fashion around his
twisted forms. Centrifugally impelled,
these forces ascend and terminate some-
times in an angry cluster of finger-like
projections that might belong to a leap-
ing or stretching figure. However, the
sheer complexity of structure immediate-
ly dissolves the notion of a will to form a
specific image.
At this stage Walker could step up ten-
sions and produce a cluster of knotty
forms to concentrate the rush cf agitated
movement. He does this to an extent but
in 16 medium-sized bronzes which ex-
ploit textured lumps, broken surfaces,
hollowed, split, wiry and shredded forms.
With deliberation he wields this improb-
able assemblage into birds, figures, a war-
rior canoe (vaguely Egyptian), animals,
etc., as the painter might coax them out
of the board with light and shadow. Hav-
ing, like a number of contemporary
sculptors, turned the full circle by re-
assessing neglected problems of the
fin de siecie, Walker is supported by a
knowledge of what happened between.
His shifting vision of integrating and dis-
integrating forms depends on all the
important play of light.
Unlike a number of nostalgists who
fiddle with the grand mystique of the
outback, Sam Fullbrook has actually
lived there, returns often to taste its fas-
cination and translate some of its magic.
His gift is not for storytelling in the
Nolan manner or for the perpetuation of
Drysdale sentiment but for lyrical gene-
ralised statement in fluid paint that seems
intent on assembling a few telling colors
as a paraphrase of seeing. None of his
figures or animals has any substance,
though their placing in effective relation-
ship with their surroundings gives them
pictorial existence. The surroundings
themselves swift, partly described, partly
dissolving, generate interest and indicate
a line of development. It predominates
over literary speculation since the people
have only slightly more significance than
the landscape, they belong to it. Moods
of gentle melancholy arise from the
quietness of the light. Fullbrook could
well manage a new assessment of his sub-
ject in terms of painting, an assessment
shorn of mythological irrelevance.
Fred Mendel celebrates the 25th anni-
versary of Mayfair Hams with this
exhibition, but more than that he wishes
to express his gratitude for the success
of his enterprise in Australia. We, too,
can be grateful for this show, ardently
hoping at the same time there are other
collector-investors from overseas who
will do likewise.
One-fifth of the collection is not
enough to give a clear impression of the
whole. Among a number of really first-
rate paintings which would be welcome
in any gallery in the world, there are
others of low quality, hardly deserving
to be hung with them. The guiding taste,
in fact, is so variable, one suspects the
rest of the collection to be as mixed, to
fall somewhat short of those high stan-
dards that distinguish the outstanding
collector. We can, on the other hand,
follow Mr Mendel’s obvious enjoyment
of painting, his frankly ingenuous eclec-
ticism.
Serenely meditative, Braque’s “Still
Life with two Peaches” of 1929 epito-
mises the fine fruit of Gallic sensibility,
ordered, disciplined, sensuous and subtle.
The ornamental motif—“ornamentation
helps to free color from form”, as Braque
said—marks the beginning of a 10-year
development. Dufy deftly executes his
elegant bravura performances with re-
sonant color harmonies, sweeping move-
ment and a deceptively easy, but highly
personal calligraphy. The freshness
lasts from the 1907 “Le Havre” through
the 1921 “Balcony” to the witty “Chang-
ing of the Guard”, where movement from
cadmium-red to red-violent and back
to vermilion becomes the marching
ranks. Chagall’s outstanding “Double
Face au Cheval Bleu”, transcendentally
romantic through its mastery of color and
luscious paint, is quite beyond anything
conveyed through tawdry reproduction.
The small Renoir landscape revolves
its feathery masses of warm-cool foliage
about the tiny scarlet of a woman’s dress,
while Pissarro’s light is substantial, the
paint rapid, almost truculent, by com-
parison in his fascinating little “Rue St.
Lazare” of 1897.
JOHN HENSHAW
YOUNG KEEN
CONTEMPORARIES
Contemporary Art Society. National
Exhibition. Finney’s Auditorium.
Brisbane.
Part of the Brisbane Warana Festival
(copied from the Melbourne Moomba)
was a national exhibition by the Queens-
land branch of the Contemporary Art
Society, 96 pictures in all including en-
tries from New South Wales, West Aus-
tralia and Tasmania. On the whole the
show was a success. The first impression


INSTRUCTORS
The Outward Bound School is engaging
additional Patrol Instructors for their ex-
panded forthcoming Courses. Applicants
must have preference and experience in
some outdoor activities such as bushwalking,
canoeing, rock climbing or sailing, with zeal
for youth leadership, and be in the age
bracket 21 to 35 years.
Educational qualifications must be of a
standard to lead discussion groups and back-
ground experience appropriate for guiding
youth.
The positions are residential at our
Hawkesbury River School and married
quarters are available.
Candidates will be required to participate
in an early Course, preferably Nov./Dec.
and selected Instructors will join salaried
staff immediately afterwards.
Reply with fullest details to,
OUTWARD BOUND,
Box 4213, G.P.0., Sydney.
the reviewer gets is one of gaiety, some-
times even impulsive. The average exhi-
bitor is young and apparently the esprit
de corps of the Queensland group is high
and members are keen to make the com-
bined effort impressive. This makes the
future of the branch secure, artistically.
About 90 per cent of the pictures,
nearly all in oils, is abstraction in some
form and at least it must be said that
almost without exception exhibitors used
plenty of high gay color and whatever
the pattern, from broad flat bands of
paint to complicated formal designs, the
canvases were filled to the limit with
color usually in pleasant tonal harmonies.
And to that extent there can be nothing
but praise for an attractive co-operative
effort.
But there are some things that must
be said. Such little representational art
as was exhibited was not terribly good,
some of it would not stand up in topline
company, being conventional in thought
and amateurish in execution though here
some still life and interiors were out-
standing exceptions. It might be argued
that abstraction is a mask for poor
technique. And then nearly all the ab-
stract communicated nothing of any in-
tellectual quality at all; it was flat color
and it was nothing more.
It is evident that this fashion is intel-
lectually sterile. And to me it fails in
depth of feeling either aesthetic or emo-
tional; the idiom survives as a transient
vogue with no roots in genuine feeling
for the subject if it can be so called.
What the future holds for this society,
to which contemporary as a word appears
to mean only abstraction, is conjectural
but the present limited idiom and range
of expression must eventually be cram-
ping and cannot provide scope for keen,
original, eager minds much longer; their
art cannot surely remain flat and un-
cummunicative and unintelligible.
I do not want anecdotal or photo-
graphic art but I crave for some thought,
for some depth of feeling, for, funda-
mentally, a moral aim to subserve a
human purpose. This does not mean a
puritanic self-righteousness, which is the
enemy of the creative mind, but a high
unself-conscious integrity such as we see
in Rembrandt and Chardin or as in
Conrad or Martin du Gard in literature.
Australian Art has had the most specta-
cularly rapid development of any national
art but I am afraid It may be checked
if our young artists do not have free play.
In the special conditions deliberately
chosen by the members of the Contem-
porary Art Society this show can be said
to be a great success simply because the
work shown is sincere and shows every
evidence of hard, devoted work. I wish
them more success; I am all for them.
As there are 96 exhibitors, ail pretty
good, to particularise would be invidious.
J. V. DUHIG
TELEVISION
CHEAP ENTERTAINMENT
p\>R some reason, viewers are not
allowed to see a blow struck in im-
ported television films, but a kick in the
face is fine on Australian film of “Top
Television Wrestling.” In this series,
commercial television has achieved the
ultimate, a programme of non-stop
simulated violence, with a format which
requires no such extraneous nonsense as
plot, dialogue or settings. Cheap, too. The
cast of five actors are already being
paid by the 1000 or so in the audience,
including those fiery ladies who donate
their services as extras.
In case you are one of the 500,000
viewers who fail to watch TTW for one
reason or another, let me report that it
has everything action, drama, and
pithy monologues consisting of “Ow!”
and “Arrhh!” The only ingredient missing
is simple eentertainment value.
When I looked in the other night, one
of the two commentators, “Dirty” Dick
Raines, explained that the first match
was truly one between “speed and science
and brawn and muscle.” The camera
revealed a heavily bearded bloke called
Paul Vachon and a moustached one
called Sal Savoldi, who began mauling
one another with the speed and science
of a pair of angry wombats, accompa-
nied by a background of feminine cries,
like, “Kill him, Sal!”
Sal tried, but it was thankless work
battering Paul’s cushion of whiskers.
Paul proved that rassling had not found
any new tricks in 25 years by kidney
punching and showing the referee an
innocent open hand, as Tom Lurich used
to do in 1937. And inevitably the same
grey-haired old lady stood up ringside
and cried blue murder because the villain
was damaging the hero and getting away
with it.
Towards the end of the match the
two rasslers left the ring to slug it out
in the aisle, and that was new. In 1937
too many of the grey-haired old ladies
used to carry umbrellas, hatpins, or both,
and brandish them if the villain came
within striking distance. You couldn’t
pay a rassler to leave the safety of the
ring in those days. The present genera*
tion of GHOL’s lacks the get up and
make ’em go of their mothers.
The next match was between two
rasslers called “La Chapelle” (It.) and
Holt (Aust.). Neither was bearded but
“La Chapelle” (in actuality, Pierre La
Capalla) was good and hairy other-
wise. While he pretended to alternately
strangle the local boy and jump on his
face and the ringside ladies danced
with rage, Dick Raines and his fellow
commentator Ray Connolly agreed that
La Chapelle was a strange name for
an Italian, and idly wondered why he
wore an earring.
Eventually Mr La C. disturbed their
ruminations by pounding Holt’s fore-
head with a fist until the commentators
noticed it bleeding copiously then
everyone descended to the ringside aisle
to slug it out, again. La Chapelle was
dragged aside to be interviewed by Mr
Raines. Then an angular lady appeared,
wielding a folded newspaper and the
rasslers ran for their dressing rooms.
My objections to this rubbish are
that it occupies 30 minutes of transmis-
sion time and is available to the young
whom our censors so carefully protect
from American-filmed violence—except
of course the shooting kind. The actors
in Top Television Wrestling kick one
another in all parts of the anatomy,
strangle, kidney punch, gouge, knee and
poleaxe one another, and it is filmed
and sent around the country as suitable
entertainment at such times as 4 p.m.
Saturdays in Melbourne, and 12.30 p.m.
Saturdays in Sydney (a repeat).
If a rassler can kick a prostrate op-
ponent in the face, why be squeamish
about the less brutal antics of criminals
and cowboys? The fact that no one is
supposed to take rassling seriously does
not reduce the illusion, or its supposed
impact on youthful minds.
FGANK ROBERTS


THE RED PAGE
JOHN ANDERSON'S BOOK
Angus & Robertson rises to the occasion
By WILLIAM GINNANE
Studies in Empirical Philosophy. John
Anderson. Angus & Robertson,
425.
Touring Professor John Anderson’s
reign (what other word is there for
it?) as Challis Professor of Philosophy
at the University of Sydney, he was
adulated by generations of his students,
many of whom have as a result of his
teaching preserved a lifetime interest in
philosophy ( Andersonian philosophy, of
course “what other kind is there?”).
But for much T this time he was being
denounced in the bitterest terms in the
Press and Parliament, from pulpits,
school platforms and all manner of public
places, ard even in the Senate of his
own University. Parents vith children
going up to the University were warned
not to let them take philosophy lest they
be corrupted. The latest outbreak of these
attacks occurred only las': year, two years
after he had retired. Politically he was
assailed by both the Left and the Right.
In philosophy itself he was constantly
under heavy fire from philosophers in
other Australian universities and occa-
sionally from overseas. How is it pos-
sible to deal soberly with his work from
here in Sydney where the majority of
those who have had any contact at all
with philosophy are already strongly
committed Andersonians or anti-Ander-
sonians 0
In Sydney Anderson looms not so
much as a figure as a phenomenon
in more than one sense as a sign of
contradiction. This has, I confess, still
not quite ceased to astonish me. I came
to Sydney a little over two years ago with
only the sketchiest acquaintance with
either Anderson or his work. In Mel-
bourne there had been mention of his
philosophy and, of course, one had read
many of the journals containing his
articles. But on the whole he appeared
only as a relatively minor and rather
cranky figure in a past era of philosophy.
At Oxford he just didn’t appear at all.
This could not be put down to any “anti-
Australianism”; a number of other Aus-
tralian philosophers were quite well-
known and respected in England.
My only personal contact with him
had been at the annual conference of the
Australasian Association of Philosophy in
Sydney in 1957. This had not left a
favourable impression. He read a paper
to the Conference outlining and re-
stating the main tenets of his “Empiri-
cism”. After he had concluded I waited
for the free interplay wf question and dis-
cussion that customarily followed papers
at such professional gatherings. I was
amazed when this did not occur. Instead
of answering questions as they arose and
defending his position against objections
in the usual way, he simply listened to
questions and made an occasional note.
Needless to say discussion soon died in
its tracks. The only thing that enlivened
it at all was the behaviour of some of
the Sydney “Andersonians” present. They
jumped to their feet and virtually heckled
any “outsider” who asked a sharp ques-
tion or raised a strong objection: the
speaker himself remained silent.
At the end of it all Anderson himself
rose to his feet and delivered a single
reply to all the questions and objections.
He seemed to deal at any length only
with those queries he could most easily
handle, the rest he either just ignored or
“answered” merely by restating his
original doctrines. There was quite a
simmer of resentment among the visiting
philosophers later as they went back to
their hotel at the Cross. “Criticism and
free inquiry!” was one comment, “It was
more like a carefully stage-managed poli-
tical meeting”. Anderson was, of course,
already then an elderly man on the point
of retirement.
Impressions of this sort naturally lin-
gered, particularly when they were on
odd occasions reinforced by other evi-
dence of a somewhat close-minded and
monolithic atmosphere among the Syd-
ney “school”. The philosophy there
seemed to an outsider to be not only
inbred and impervious to outside develop-
ments, but narrow, doctrinaire and nega-
tive into the bargain. One sometimes felt
that the peculiar kind of provincialism
to be found in all sorts of walks of Syd-
ney life (think, for example, of much of
religion in Sydney) was partly at the bot-
tom of it all. Was it that “John’s” philos-
ophy was regarded as true or was it
largely that it was “ours” (i.e. Sydney’s)
that gave it such a following? Needless
to say, of course, there was no such
question with respect to Anderson him-
self.
After all this unpromising but fairly
typical non-Sydney background it was
with genuine delight that I for the first
time really encountered the man himself
after I came to Sydney. He had, of
course, then retired from the Chair but
he used to come into the University
fairly frequently and there was often
occasion for a chat. He was charming,
witty, friendly, sincere and still extremely
alert. The taste of some of the past an-
tics of some Andersonians then faded
away; that had patently been just one of
those things. The man himself was splen-
did.
VyHAT a philosopher (or a poet or a
scientist for that mader) may regard
as the central achievement of his work
may not in the end turn out to be so.
The history of creative thinking is re-
plete with such ironies.
No doubt it is that way with, for
example, Kant: most present-day philoso-
phers would regard the Critique of Pure
Reason as at the very least one of the
few really towering pieces in the history
of ideas, yet I suppose there is hardly
a one who would subscribe to that “Cop-
ernican Revolution” the elaboration and
defence of which Kant took to be the
main purpose of his book. Similar, I sus-
pect, may be the case of John Anderson.
When the definitive assessment is made
(which is, of course, not now) it may
very well not be the characteristic doc-
trines of the “one way of being”, of the
identification of propositions with “situa-
tions”, of the non-reality of moral obli-
gation, or of “Mind as Feeling” which
mark him off as a thinker of stature. In
the last resort it is not doctrines but the
palpable exercise of creative intelligence
issuing in works which makes the mark.
Many great philosophers borrowed key
ideas from other writers who are now
only remembered in specialised scholarly
research. It is the quality of the specific
intellectual virtue exemplified that makes
the thinker memorable.
It seems to me that what doubt there
may have been about Anderson’s memor-
ableness in this respect is banished with
the publication of Studies in Empirical
Philosophy. Of course, most of the mater-
ial in this book has long been available
in journals. Nevertheless, the very col-
lection of these articles into one set of
covers and the provision of an excellent
Index, inviting as it does the re-reading
of them all as a whole, inevitably leads
to a more studied and reflective view
of the not-inconsiderable corpus. More-
over, as well as the twen'._ nine articles,
discussions and reviews thus collected, the
book contains two new papers, Relational
Arguments and Empiricist- and Logic.
These are quite major pieces in them-
selves and furnish a more sophisticated
elaboration of, and comment on, some
of the earlier key material. Professor
Passmore's substantial introductory essay
contributes further light and perspective
to the clear view of the Andersonian
philosophical landscape provided by the
book.
The philosophy itself takes on a new
aspect of solidity and scope with the ap-
pearance of this book which, tragically,


Anderson himself did not live to see
appear. Fortunately, Angus and Robert-
son have fully risen to the occasion. This
is without doubt one of the most excel-
lently produced books ever published in
Australia. The printing is bold and clear
but the binding, in crimson, black and
gold, is quite superb. This publisher is
not altogether noted for the consistent
display of these craftly virtues, but in this
case has acted in a manner commensurate
with the quality of the material. No doubt
the generous contributions of the An-
dersonian Testimonial Fund and the Aus-
tralian Humanities Research Council
have made such an achievement possible.
We can only be grateful.
More than half the pieces are on
logical and metaphysical topics; the re-
mainder range over moral philosophy,
social and cultural history, education,
psychology, politics. It is the logic and
metaphysics (Anderson called it all
“logic”) which is the heart of the work,
the base from which all other forays are
launched, and these papers are undoubted-
ly the most important in the book. Con-
sidered as a system Andersonian phil-
osophy turns on a few basic doctrines
which are repeatedly adverted to and sup-
ported in these papers. Should these fail
then there is no doubt that much else
fails besides; indeed the whole system
collapses.
It seems to me that several of these
key doctrines do in fact fail . . . Even if
this is so, however, it does not mean that
the philosophy becomes worthless. On the
contrary, many particular arguments and
critical discussions shine quite brightly
by their own light and not merely by the
reflected glow of the systematic super-
structure they ar: supposedly supporting.
It is quite possible to recognise the
acumen and accuracy of, for example,
his criticism of the doctrine of “ideas”
espoused in various guises by Descartes
and the British Empiricists without being
committed to what he erects in its stead.
Similarly, his attacks on mind-body dual-
ism have a validity and power of their
own without necessitating commitment
to the particular view which he advances
of minds as “spatio-temporal” things
which are known in just the same way as
anything else is. There are many ex-
amples that one could cite of Anderson
marshalling excellent critical arguments
against some position (his attacks on
attempts to suggest a sharp dichotomy
between discourse and reality is another
example), arguments that have a status
independent of his suggested counter-
position.
As Passmore says in his Introduction:
“Anderson’s approach is essentially that
of a generaliser”. One result of this ten-
dency to generalise is that particular doc-
trines are sometimes simply asserted on
the basis of a successful polemic against
some set of contrary positions; in these
cases Anderson seems to think that the
success of the attack shows the positive
doctrine to be true. Sometimes, too, the
situation is complicated by the fact that
Anderson then uses the doctrine in ques-
tion to carry out some other manoeuvre
which in turn appears to be successful,
thus further confirming his trust in the
general doctrine. It may well be the case,
however, that sometimes the particular
argumentation is successful, not by virtue
of the doctrine Anderson claims but for
some other reason which may indeed en-
tail a doctrine similar to Anderson’s in
certain respects but not identical with it.
In other words he often gets close to the
truth but then overstates the case in a
sometimes quite drastic manner.
One particular doctrine that frequently
recurs is that one cannot make any dis-
tinction between propositions about situa-
tions on the one hand and the situations
or states of affairs themselves on the
other. Anderson claims that the world it-
self is, so to speak, made up of proposi-
tions. Thus, for him, logic is “empirical”
in a quite direct way: we “discover”
logical truths in exactly the same way as
we discover anything else.
Something seems to have gone wrong
here; discovering anything presupposes
that we can think to some extent at
least coherently, i.e. that logic is not, so
to speak, a stranger to us. If it were a
stranger to us then we could never dis-
cover it.
Anderson quite rightly wants to cir-
cumvent any cleavage between proposi-
tions (or knowledge, or language for that
matter) and the world because he sees
that any such cleavage could never be
bridged and we could never then assert
anything.
“When we assert the proposition ‘All men
are mortal’, WHAT we are asserting is the
actual mortality of men, and to call the
assertion of the proposition merely a MEANS
to the asserting of the fact is to say that
we have NO way of asserting the fact, lust
as we have no way of specifying the ‘reality’
with which certain ideas of ours are sup-
posed to ‘agree’ unless those ‘ideas’ (what
we know) ARE the reality.” (p. 169).
What Anderson is getting at here is
quite correct: what is involved in my
knowledge of something must be the
thing itself and not some kind of shadow
or mere representation of it. But this
does not require that propositions are
facts (and vice-versa) in any sense of
“facts” which implies that the actual real
world about us is made up of facts. All
that is required is the claim that pro-
positions are that in which our knowledge
of the world (of facts) is necessarily
embodied. One could carry this a stage
further and say that language, i.e. that
which exists, inter alia, to express proposi-
tions, is necessarily connected quite
directly to the world and is not a mere
network of symbols connected with one
another by purely “formal” or “conven-
tional” rules. But then Anderson would
have been much closer to one particular
kind of contemporary “linguistic” phil-
osophy than he probably imagined.
As mentioned earlier, this book con-
tains thirty-one papers. These represent
Anderson's most serious and professional
work. But there is, as is well known, an-
other side to Anderson. This is Ander-
son the social critic, polemicist and cru-
sader for academic vision and integrity.
There are eighty-eight other papers,
articles, etc., by him listed in the excel-
lent bibliography. Many of these are de-
voted to such themes. Is there any hope
of these being collected and published?
There are many people who feel, for
example, that the spirit of much of this
writing is badly needed in Australian
universities (and other places too, of
course) today. Anderson fought countless
battles to prevent the University becom-
ing simply a bureaucratized factory de-
voted to the churning out of “trained
personnel” to meet the most shallowly-
conceived needs of “society”. But pre-
cisely this is tending to happen as the
universities expand (“explode” would be
a better word) and become progressively
more dependent on public funds and
policies. Anderson’s incisive voice in
this field is still needed if the battle is
not to be finally lost. If it is lost, then it
is difficult to see how any genuine
pursuit of truth in a spirit of free inquiry
can continue to exist in our Society.
QUEENSLAND'S "HOUSE OF LORDS"
Some secret history
By M. H. ELLIS
Three Decades of Queensland Political
History, 1929-60. Clem Lack.
Queensland Government Printer.
625.
If a championship belt were offered
for the most original official work
published in Australia this year, the
Queensland Government’s new “Three
Decades,” compiled and edited by Clem
Lack, the “State Public Relations Officer,
Premier and Chief Secretary’s Depart-
ment” in conjunction with the Under
Secretary to the Department, the Clerk
of the Parliament and the Senior Clerk
of the Premier’s Department, would win
it hands down.
Queensland, of course, is a somewhat
original State politically and always has
been, and its politics have always been
exciting. Mr Lack's book provides evi-
dence that it has not changed ever the
years.
My association with Parliament House
began 58 years ago when I came down


H
The White Australia policy: should we keep it or change it?
If you care about your country, you MUST read . . .
IMMIGRATION: CONTROL OR COLOUR BAR?
MELBOURNE UNIVERSITY PRESS I 12/6 at all booksellers
to Brisbane to school, lived with the
Clerk of Parliaments for a year and
used to chase his son, Joe Costin, one
of the first Australians killed on
Gallipoli, round the ornate Legislative
Council Committee rooms in the south-
eastern end of the vast, pink buildings
which looked and smelt, as 1 discovered
later, like a museum model of the House
of Lords.
1 was a very young reporter in the
Parliamentary Gallery in the heady days
when Charlie Jenkinson and Joe Lesina
vied w'ith Lord Chelmsford and Deakin
for the title of fastest speaker in Aus-
tralia and when it took six different kinds
of shorthand to cope with them.
I was present in the House when Joe
Lesina, at ten minutes’ notice, stone-
walled out a debate with a speech of
seven hours forty minutes out of a total
sitting of 72 hours.
I was present on the night when an
honorable and sleepwalking Irish mem-
ber, wakened from his uneasy slumbers
in a ministerial room, appeared suddenly
at the Bar like an Archangel clothed in a
long white nightgown, drawing a sten-
torian admonition from the Speaker,
John Leahy: "Arder, Arder. The Hon-
orable mimber will remain outside the
praecincts till Oi blow the Last Trump.”
I eventually rose to be the first incum-
bent of an office called Parliamentary
Secretary to the Opposition.
I saw many stirring events of the last
war years happen in and around Parlia-
ment House. I heard the reading into
Hansard 37 of a famous censored anti-
conscription pamphlet. I heard Billy
Hughes deliver his ultimatum to the
Ryan-Theodore Government about that
strange document which was printed in
Hansard, black type and all. I saw the
dramatic night-swoop of Billy's security
police on the Government printing office
to seize the offending thing, with T. J.
Ryan, the Premier, in his pyjamas,
standing on his doorstep across the road
to watch the fun.
What a scene that was, prelude to the
heaving at Billy Hughes of the War-
wick egg. The crowds were all out as if
for a Kilkenny picnic and Anthony
Cumming, the Government Printer who
hated the Government, lorded it on the
doorstep of the Printing Office between
the two printer’s devil gargoyles which
he had put up above the portal in the
image of a minister, the Honorable
Andrew Henry Barlow. These two 1 ife-
l'ke stone replicas of an Honorable so
old that he had arrived in Australia in
1848 and joined the service of the Bank
of Australasia in 1851, Anthony was
wont to adorn on gala nights with wink-
ing colored lights—a starboard light in
the right eye of the figure on the right,
a port light in the left eye of the gar-
goyle on the left. The gargoyles are still
there but the local memory of their
origin seems to have departed with
Anthony, whose sense of humor was no
doubt derived from his friendship with
the Bulletin’s staff in the days of
Macleod, Edmond and Hop, while he
printed the old “Star” in Sydney.
1 was still at the House when the
Prince of Wales and his staff lived there
in 1920, though I moved “down to the
Council end” during the Royal visit,
along with my stock of medicines which
proved as popular with some of the
Royal staff as with M’sLA.
11/Jy ultimate undoing was the fact that
A I drafted the Opposition case and
prepared the heavy documentation with
which the Philip-Cowley-Y/alsh delega-
tion to London in May 1920 sought to
secure the withholding of the Royal
Assent from the "confiscatory and re-
pudiatory Land Act Amendment Act of
1920” and assure the appointment of a
Governor from England, in place of the
Labor nominee, William Lennon, whose
incumbency of Government House the
Theodore Government was anxious to
make permanent. Theodore was not
amused—at my part in it, particularly
it seemed.
I only mention this because Mr Lack
and his colleagues devote a good deal of
space in their book to the Affaire Lennon.
Theodore was engaged in trying to
destroy the Legislative Council and
William Lennon was his instrument. He
was Lieutenant-Governor acting as Gov-
ernor, having resigned from the Speaker-
ship, and it was proposed to put him into
the Presidency of the Legislative
Council.
However, since the President of the
Council must be appointed by the
Crown, it seemed rather difficult for
William Lennon to appoint himself. So
he developed “a sore knee” allegedly by
tripping on the dais while opening the
Session and went off to Tweed Heads to
rest and recover. Sir Pope Cooper, Chief
Justice, an old gentleman who wore a
grey topper and lemon-colored gloves in
the height of summer and who drove
about in a dog-cart, just like the Prince
Regent, with a boy “tiger” with folded
arms on the rear seat, held the Lieuten-
ant-Governor’s dormant Commission and
was elected to elevate the sore-kneed
Lennon to his new position.
However, he refused to add even one
more to a Council already 30 per cent,
over normal strength, its surplus pre-
paring for political suicide.
So William Lennon had to come
home, limping (but not too painfully),
and issue to himself a document of
which the relevant part read:
To our Trusty and Well-beloved the Honor-
able William Lennon, in our State of
Queensland in the Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia, Esquire,
Greeting,
We, confiding in your loyalty, wisdom and
integrity, have appointed and constituted
you, the said William Lennon, to be Presi-
dent of the Legislative Council
(sgd) WILLIAM LENNON
Well-seasoned Queenslanders did not
turn a hair at these Lennonist proceed-
ings any more than they had done when
Parliament solemnly declared by legisla-
tion that the dingoes of the State were
marsupials.
It was of course, William Lennon,
Lieutenant-Governor who. in the inter-
regnum between the departures of Gov-
ernor Sir Hamilton Goold Adams and
the arrival of Sir Matthew Nathan,
carried out the wishes of the Theodore
Government, swamped the Legislative
Council with a “suicide squad” and pre-
sided over its hara kiri.
He then was put out to grass, but
continued to be Lieutenant-Governor
doing nothing whatever for a salary
which he drew until the Moore Govern-
ment abolished it in 1929. Whereupon,
he resigned the vice-regal office.
T ack’s book opens with a chapter on
what Queensland is pleased to call
its “processes” of government.
One of the “processes” of Govern-
ment in Queensland instituted by the
Ryan and Theodore Governments, was
Government by regulation and proc-
lamation under such schemes as that in
the Sugar Acquisition Act which pro-
vided that every proclamation made
under the Act should be “read as one
with the Act and be construed as being
of equal validity with it,” and that any
commodity mentioned in a proclama-
tion even if it had not a pinch of sugar
in it, should be treated in effect as if it
were raw sugar to be manufactured. So
that the Act could be used by the Gov-
ernment, in effect, to seize anything—
which it proceeded to do with gay aban-
don. It once seized the lighting on
Wollongabba Racecourse. It sent a con-
stable to seize the cattle on Mooraberrie
Station and fought through a series of
appeals to the Privy Council which sup-
ported it. It tried to commandeer four
coastal steamers during World War I
and found itself blocked by W. M.
Hughes.
And then, of course, there is proxy


NEW BOOKS
Paul
BRICKHILL
The Deadline
A novel of suspense and adventure
set in Paris against a topical back-
ground of the O.A.S. troubles.
The author of REACH FOR THE
SKY has written a compelling first
novel. 225.
Ngaio
MARSH
Hand in Glove
A brilliant detective story in the
tradition of Christie and Sayers
featuring Superintendent Roderick
Alleyn. For connoisseurs of crime.
20s.
Geoffrey
JEN KB NS
A Grue of Ice
An eminently readable story of
high adventure in the Antarctic. A
well observed background and ex-
citing plot makes this a memorable
successor to A TWIST OF SAND.
225.
Published by Collins
BOOKHUNTER
Dept. "D", Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A Service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if
successful.
voting, another unique parliamentary
procedure which enables a member to
vote by proxy if he can send along a
medical certificate that he is not fit to
vote. The number of sick members that
used to develop when the Opposition
was not giving pairs was remarkable
especially, it is said, when there happened
to be a race meeting or fight on some-
where. In the Theodore days, the closure
used to be moved with great frequency
and the system of proxy voting was used
with it 21 times in a single night.
It could scarcely be expected that a
House with such a legislative record
would not be a dangerous one to live in.
Some of its traditions seem to have
been born on the day in 1872 when Rat-
cliffe Pring called a fellow member a
“dirty wretch” and then pulled his beard:
“Sergeant, arrest that honorable member!”
roared the Speaker.
The Sergeant at Arms advanced towards
Mr Pring, and remarked: “I take you in
charge!”
“Do you?” retorted Mr Pring, “You will
have to catch me first.”
And, showing a fine turn of speed, he
left the House, resigned, but was arrested
on a Speaker's warrant in the town of
Dalby, where he went to attend Court
Sessions. Even then he dodged his per-
secutors and lived to become Attorney
General in the Mcllwraith Ministry and
a Judge of the Supreme Court.
From this promising beginning, the
Queensland Parliament has developed
a lovely history of turmoil.
Such incidents as the raid on Caucus
within the precincts of Parliament House
in 1939 by 38 determined looking gentry
armed with “batons, coils of
wire and hammers” are taken in a
Queenslander’s stride.
So, then, were the subsequent proceed-
ings in which a swarm of police surroun-
ded the House and arrested everybody
strange inside it including six astonished
tourists. The trial of the raiders called
for the use of the City Hall and 600
jurymen. It lasted nine days, resulted
in 38 separate verdicts of not guilty and
my old friend Forgan Smith was thought
something of a spoil-sport when he
brought down an amendment to the
Criminal Code to make such demon-
strations illegal and render it an offence
to go armed in Parliament House.
Forgan had been punched in the eye and
knocked down himself outside the House
a few years earlier, before emerging
victorious from a two round contest.
So, he had some justification.
The toughest member of the Assembly
record was John Francis Barnes whose
nine years in parliament as an “Andrew
Fisher Laborite,” independent member
for Bundaberg (“Bundaberg Bombshell”)
were really exciting.
He kept the House ir a riot of dis-
order. When deeply moved he was apt
to tear off his tie and throw it on the
floor, and when called on to apologise he
was prone to kneel on the carpet and
exclaim: “I humbly withdraw the state-
ment.”
Once his allegations about a missing
woman who had been social secretary
to Forgan Smith resulted L, the amend-
ment of the Coroners’ Act to compel
persons having knowledge of a missing
person, under pain of prison for a second
refusal, to “come clean.”
He duly risked gaol under this legisla-
tion —of which he was proud to be the
cause—but saved his skin.
Later when they suspended him for
disobeying the Chair and double-locked
his bedroom in the Lodge, he broke in.
After an hilarious few days he invited
the Speaker to “send the coppers to put
me out.” He had a concourse of repor-
ters and photographers to see him being
ejected.
After he had been hurled through the
gates, he returned to give a repeat per-
formance, with the remark that his
“cobber the photographer,” had failed to
get the picture he wanted, so that it
would have to be done all over again.
Queensland’s official volume is able to
preserve for posterity a delightful pic-
ture of the laughing Mr Barnes, neatly
attired in whites and a pith helmet, be-
ing half-dragged and half-carried out of
the sacred premises by two detectives
who seem to be laughing just as heartily
as himself.
He, at any rate, had reason to laugh in
the end, for the Full Court gave him
damages and he also obtained at law,
his salary while suspended.
Parliament had to alter its Standing
Orders to include the Lodge in the pre-
cincts of the House to protect itself
against him. Once again Barnes won
when they locked the door of his room
in Parliament House against him for be-
ing disorderly and he kicked it in.
Lack’s volume suggests that Queens-
land’s Parliament is not yet tamed. The
reader is not surprised to discover from
the chapter of “selected portraits and
biographies” what an interesting and able
collection of politicians Queensland has
possessed in the past 30 years and still
possesses.
Where in any legislature could you
find another such as Mr Thomas Aikens,
who is officially dubbed by the Premier’s
Office editorial committee, W frank and
unblushing egotist” with “a gift of vivid
and unexpected phrase which he can use
like a cutlass to chop down an opponent,
or as a rapier in verbal thrust and
parry”?
He once announced that “whatever
rules the Speaker might lay down,
Marquis of Queensberry, Rafferty or
Dog and Goanna,” they would all suit
him and he would “give no quarter and
ask none.”
Where, but in Queensland, could you
find an ideal minister like Mr Ernie
Evans, Minister for Development who is
“tall and heavily built... a typical ex-
ample of a rugged individualist. . .
equally rugged and forthright as a de-
bater, never mincing his words and
always being blunt, and direct in his
approach on controversial questions.” Or
what more desirable (ex) Premier than
one of whom State officials can write
confidently: “Politically Vince Gair was
always well over to the Right of Centre.”
Or a more picturesque MP than Jimmy
Stopford, whom I knew from childhood,
who was once marooned by his own
supporters on Iron Island and who in a
crisis when his political fate hung in the
balance, “went out and had a drink with
his majority—himself.”


THE MAN
ON THE LAND
DAIRY BOARD'S TOP-SECRET PLAN
TO BUILD MARKETS
A top-secret plan now before the
Australian Dairy Produce Board has
the primary industry guessing. According
to the board’s chairman, former Victo-
rian dairyfarmer Mr E. G. Roberts, the
plan involves the utilisation of dairy
produce surpluses to build markets for
the future.
Mr Roberts, who has been attending
the annual conference of the Interna-
tional Dairy Congress in Copenhagen,
dropped first hints of the proposal on
his recent return to Australia. He said
it had been evolved at discussions be-
tween representatives of the British, New
Zealand and Australian dairy boards in
London, and had now been referred to
the full boards for further discussion.
“I cannot spell out the details, but the
essence of the plan is a positive move to
use surpluses to build markets for the
future,” he said. “Whether it comes to
anything depends on the reactions of the
three boards.”
Mr Roberts hinted that the plan, if
adopted, would mean contributions by
the Australian dairy industry, the Aus-
tralian Government, an “international
secretariat,” and by the Government of
the recipient nation.
Mr Roberts said the plan aimed to
solve acute marketing problems facing
the dairy industry throughout the world.
It had been apparent for some time that
steeply rising world dairy production was
outstripping consumption.
British butter quotas, the recent cheese
agreements and a three-nation milk
powder agreement had all been designed
to stop the collapse of Australia’s vital
British market.
The measures had been satisfactory,
in that they had forced prices up, but
they had presented Australia with another
problem—that of accumulating surpluses.
These surpluses were expected to total
between 15,000 tons and 20,000 tons of
butter by the end of the year.
“We have got to find markets outside
the UK for butter, cheese and milk
powder—and they must be markets
which won’t break down our prices on
our present other-than-UK export
markets,” said Mr Roberts.
Mr Roberts said that after talks in
Britain and Europe it was still hard to
measure the likely outcome if Britain
entered the Common Market. As far as
the dairy industry was concerned, much
would depend on the internal policies of
the Market—even after the terms of
Britain’s entry were known.
Nothing had happened lately to in-
crease the dairy industry’s sense of secu-
rity—in fact, the reverse had been the
case. What had been regarded as fairly
positive assurances had degenerated into
mere generalities.
Europe appeared to be a shrinking
market regardless of Britain's entry into
the Common Market. “I can quite easily
envisage Europe becoming self-sufficient
in dairy products within a comparatively
few years,” he said. “Britain’s entry into
the Market will only speed up this trend.”
Mr Roberts detailed progress on some
of the Dairy Board’s plans. In Malta, he
said, he had attended the opening of a
new butter patting plant by a board-
backed company, the Australian Butter
Company, which packaged bulk Austra-
lian butter for the Malta retail trade. In
its first two weeks of operations it had
sold more butter —about 17 tons —than
Australia sold in Malta in the previous
year.
Australia’s incursion into the Maltese
market, however, was only an attempt to
win back something lost. Many years ago
Australia regularly supplied 300 tons of
Malta’s 500-tons needs.
Mr Roberts said the first of Australia’s
South-east Asian recombined sweetened
condensed milk plants was expected to
be in operation in Thailand within 14
months. The company to run the plant,
Thai Dairy Industry Co. Ltd, had been
registered and granted pioneer status in
Thailand.
The plant would produce one million
cases of sweetened condensed milk a year
—using the equivalent of 2000 tons of
Australian butter, plus Thai sugar and
labor.
"LOW STANDARD"
IN FARM
MANAGEMENT
general standard of farm manage-
ment in Australia was lower than in
New Zealand and low by any stan-
dard, Victorian agricultural and pastoral
consultant Mr W. A. Beattie, told the
Agricultural and Veterinary Chemicals
Association in Melbourne.
Mr Beattie said he could make this
claim without fear of contradiction.
The low standard in Australia was al-
most wholly due to the lack of con-
scious, planned and realistic teaching of
the principles and application of manage-
ment, he said.
Mr Beattie said he had also found the
personnel side of farm management
very poorly appreciated, with the result
farm labor was becoming more scarce
and of poorer quality.
“The concept of a farm worker as a
man with big muscles and a bone head
who likes to be rough and live rough,
is out of date,” he said.
“I know many young men who would
like to learn farming, but where can I
send them so that they will live like
normal, intelligent human beings and be
taught thoroughly?” he asked.
POTATO COMES
INTO ITS OWN
Thirst it was instant mashed potatoes.
A Now it is frozen, ready-cooked
French-fried potatoes! The humble spud
has come into its own at last.
The latest venture is a major break
into modern marketing by Victoria’s in-
fant Potato Producers’ Co-operative Ltd
—a body which has several times been
on the point of death in its brief three-
year life.
Victoria is the potato State of the Com-
monwealth, producing about 45 per cent
of the total crop.
The new plant, which went into pro-
duction at the outer Melbourne suburb
of Highett this month, will use 4,000 tons
of potatoes a year (or more if demand
justifies more than one shift). All the
potatoes will be supplied by the co-
operative’s 1400 members.
The Victorian French-fries (they are
not at all bad, by the way) retail at 2/3
a 12 oz. packet, compared with about
2/9 for 10 oz. packets of similar Ameri-
can chip potatoes imported in smallish
quantities lately. The plant is the first of
its kind in Australia.


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
Share Market Weighs Anchor
IT WAS SUDDEN, but it was certain —a glimmer of
enthusiasm has bobbed up in the Australian share markets.
It began last Friday; turnover rose sharply and so did
j share prices. Sydney had its busiest buying day for more
! than three months and shares moved upward quicker than they
had done for a longer period than that. There was no
! singular event to inspire Friday’s move; Thursday had been
one of those days we have become so used to, quiet and dull.
Last week this page recorded the absence of the investor
from the share market, pointing to the manifest opportunities
that presented themselves in the current level of industrial share
prices. Whatever the cause, it was pleasing to see the investor
return with such an obvious flourish.
On Monday, he was still there, although, as if afraid of his
own actions, taking things a little more quietly. All the signs
now are that the market has finally “bottomed.” If so, a
steady upward course for the bulk of the sound equity shares
listed should follow, for there is not one cloud on the economic
horizon that has not been accounted for and fully discounted.
The recent history of the index of ordinary share prices on
the Sydney Stock Exchange is worthy of examination.
This index boasts a peak of 348.46 established in the “wild”
days of September, 1960. The following table records how
ordinary prices have moved since them:
Last day of 1960 1961 1962
January 329.34 285.09 309.75
February 315.95 288.78 320.28
March 316.30 284.21 308.15
April 329.11 299.06 304.45
May 333.64 308.45 301.06
June 332.55 307.41 293.65
July 341.03 307.07 290.17
August 340.61 300.85 392.47
September 330.20 295.67 284.93
October 310.03 297.99
November 277.07 293.48
December 274.27 299.07
Early this month the index slipped to 282.62, and its lowest
Point since the immediate period after November 15, 1960.
This week it has moved up to 286.
The stage is set for a prolonged rise at least to the heights
existing in early 1960, or even earlier this year. The economy
ls in better shape today than it was at either of the other peak
periods.
The gathering of optimism will be reflected in turnovers.
They have been low, reflecting lack of interest on the part of
uyers; they still are low on 1960 standards, but are showing
sporadic improvements, giving clue to a changing heart in in-
vestors.
Demands for solid fixed interest are still high; The Bul-
letin s advisory service still has most of its inquiries directed
to this avenue of investment. But there are noticeable changes
in the equity investor’s attitude. BHP, for instance has been
in public demand and large institutional (mainly from Mel-
bourne sources) parcels have been absorbed on the floor of the
Exchange at rising prices.
BHP, in fact, has sneaked up just on 6 per cent, in the
three weeks since the recent “low” of 51/- was established. It
will go higher with the rest of the market when investors be-
come increasingly aware of what they could be missing out on.
AIDA ON IMPORTS
REPLACEMENT
Australian Industries Development Association’s latest
survey of imports replacement possibilities is not one of
its best efforts, but it makes some interesting, even if con-
troversial, points.
The theme is that official policy has long favored the
primary industries and has been diced against manufacturers.
If the latter were encouraged more, they could work wonders
in imports replacement, whereas, because of worsening terms
of trade, stimulation of primary industries “holds out little
hope either of providing needed goods now imported more
efficiently than local industry, or of significantly helping
employment.”
It is a little hard to swallow the argument backing these
propositions. For instance, one would have thought that the
official policy of import restrictions was largely responsible
for the massive imports replacement achieved in the 1950 s
which AIDA maintains was an era of rabid official encour-
agement of primary industry.
Also one would have thought that the scramble to get
emergency tariffs in the last year or two suggests that a wide
area of Australian industry cannot compete with imports
without excessive protection.
AIDA thinks differently—“We must accept that local in-
dustry with reasonable tariff protection is, by and large, able
to face up to import competition, that there is a large volume
of existing imports that can be economically replaced by
local industry.”
AIDA continues somewhat ambiguously, “The lifting of
import restrictions in 1960 (though precipitate and unwisely
handled, forcing the Government later to drastic action) again
refuted the theorists—local industry was less subject to import
competition and better able to meet it than had been thought.
(There are, of course, important industries which need added
protection so that they can operate at higher capacity and
counter an increased volume of imports in their field, while
new industries must have assured and adequate protection to
flourish.)”
Then, “the adverse conditions in manufacturing industry
recently arose from the unrealistic attitude of the Government


to development, and its unnecessary general policy of economic
restriction. Certainly it must do more actively to encourage
and protect the legitimate interests of sound local industries;
but the major adverse influence is a reactionary general eco-
nomic policy.
“Manufacturing development, which recently has given
employment to an added 35,000 people annually and in-
creased output by over <£2oo million annually, has been
stagnant. The figures show that local capacity can and has
coped with very heavy falls in imports with resulting increased
output. The argument that manufacturing development can
only grow as our ability to increase imports grows, is not
borne out by the facts.”
However vague these propositions and finger pointings may
seem to most people, they certainly put AIDA on the side
of the angels, the “Great White Way” that is.
DIRECTORS HAVE
MAMMOTH TASK
A nother thumping loss by Standard and Triumph distributor,
Australian Motor Industries Ltd, in the last year to June
should not blind observers to the tremendous task achieved by
management in raising liquidity.
The comparative trading results for the group over the last
four years were:
1959 1960 1961 1962
£ £ £ £
Depreciation 292,000 194,000 282,000 161,000
Tax 144,000 238,000 89,000 nil
Profit 392,000 281,000 Dr. 2,054,000 Dr. 322,000
Dividend 15 p.c. 10 p.c.
Total group liabilities were reduced from close to £7 million
to £1.7 million, partly by disposal of Mercedes-Benz and
Fiat franchises, the closing down of unprofitable dealer points,
and the sale of surplus properties. Expenses were cut and so
were selling prices.
Last year major creditors agreed to the company’s plan for
paying off smaller creditors first. The major creditors were
granted security over the group’s assets, and their forbearance
has been rewarded by full settlement of their accounts since
balance date.
Management is eager to repay or replace high interest bear-
ing loans, and reports that it has plans under discussion now
for full use of productive capacity and for higher sales.
Directors still have a mammoth task ahead in steering the
company on to profitable roads. The market recognises this
in holding the ss. shares at around Is. lOd.
The board must rue the day when it conferred the one-
for-three bonus on shareholders in October, 1959.
MORE “KNOW HOW”
IS NEEDED
Queensland’s natural resources of oil, coal and bauxite
featured prominently in the annual address given by
the chairman of Evans Deakin Industries Ltd, Mr J. H.
Hoare.
He mentioned the possibility of Comalco converting
bauxite to alumina on Queensland's east coast—perhaps
Gladstone, which is the rail head for the Theiss-Peabody
coal deposits at Rianga—instead of in remote Weipa.
Of more immediate interest to Evans Deakin is the pro-
jected oil pipeline from Moonie. Evans Deakin expects to
benefit from construction of the pipeline and auxiliary tanks
and installations.
But it seems hard to believe their contention that the
laying of the pipeline will have to be carried out by an
overseas organisation, because it involves techniques novel
to Australia.
Explanation was also given as to the increasing complexity
of construction projects, and the trend away from the practice
of calling large numbers of separate tenders to that of a
single tender, sometimes on a “turn key” basis.
Without the specialist knowledge sometimes required,
Evans Deakin had sought technical liaison with overseas
experts such as Mitchell Engineering of the UK, which has
set up a know-how company locally, in conjunction with
Evans Deakin.
SIR J. CRAWFORD
“KEEPS MUM”
Otrong rumors abound that Sir John Crawford will be asked
to head the Federal Government’s proposed Economic
Advisory Group. To all these rumors Sir John himself remains
discreetly “mum”. “You tell me,” he says.
The appointment, if it eventuates, would be most admir-
able. Sir John has solid feet in the two camps—the academic
and the practical economic worldI—which 1 —which is absolutely neces-
sary for a task of this kind. Those who have known him since
his early academic days have been impressed with his great
growth of maturity.
Another corollary of such an appointment would be the
indication that the Government has decided to take seriously
the findings of any such economic committee. Perhaps it may
be impressed with the success of the English counterpart —the
National Economic Development Council, familiarly known as
“Neddy”.
“Neddy” started off somewhat under a cloud, but the
ability brought to its job has led to all sections of the com-
munity—Government, industrialists and trade unions—giving
proper consideration to its findings.
For the Australian equivalent it is urgently necessary that
its members be appointed for the job they can do, and not
solely as representatives of any particular sectional interest.
OPENING THE
DOLLAR DOORS
Rapped by Gretel’s challenge, Australia’s sporting invasion
of the USA last month presented unrivalled opportunity
to open political, financial, and economic as well as club-house
doors in the States and from accounts it was taken at the flood.
The P.M. and Federal Treasurer have already reported they
found the administration in a sympathetic mood on a number
of questions vital to Australia. Now, following in their wash
from America, Sir lan Potter brings the good news that we will
borrow 85 million dollars on Wall Street this year at interest
rates below those of the World Bank.
Even though the World Bank regarded Australia more highly
as a borrower than any other country seeking loans, Sir lan
says it paid us better to borrow on the open market in the
US than from the World Bank.
Unfortunately, Sir lan brought no glad tidings on immediate
prospects for a revival of overseas portfolio investment either
from the US or Britain in Australian shares, yet he stressed
that the drying up of such investment was playing a bigger
part than the quietness of local institutional investment in the
current malaise in share markets here.
In his view uncertainty was plaguing the US financial scene
as well as our own, but he seems to think the green light for
US investors may come after the elections for State Govern-
ors there in November. He looks for an improvement in the
US economy early next year, leading to fuller recovery in
1964.
The hope must be that some of this may rub off on share


You’re so right...
insist on
‘BLACK &
WHITE’
{' f && '-4^
4-
*Y*\
■/, A
r
SSfe.
Uv...h)l)
ENDtuScOTCH^KI
: BLACK !
WHITE \
'fj BUCHANAN SCI
lASCOW scotlmJ
MAJB STY 1 H*. CkVkYV*
wA^A
CUAftAN T(f o WMOUY DilTiulO ANO MATU&IO *« tCOU**O
; SCOTCH WHISKY
BLACK & WHITE
SPECIAL OLE NO OF
riin BUCHANAN'S
CHOICE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS
GLASGOW & LONDON.
CUMTAUCHEftS OISTIUEHY MIUBEH SPErSIOE SCOTI** 0
NET CONTENTS I PINT 6 FLUID OZS
• OTTtfD UHOCft Inf SUPfRVIfiOM OF
COMMONWCAITH CUSTOMS
WHISKY
JAMES BUCHANAN <1 CO. LTD., GLASGOW, SCOTLAND & LONDON
JB 148
markets in this country, though Sir lan
is apparently seeing economic recovery
here in somewhat measured terms.
At any rate he feels that uncertainties
not only in the US but also the common
market should be resolved during the
next six months and further that this
should predicate a better climate for Aus-
tralian share markets within that period,
even if there could be one or two thunder-
claps from recession battered companies
before investment skies are clear again.
Talking about the common market,
Sir lan Potter said until all the terms
had been settled it was too early to say
how Britain’s entry would affect Austra-
lia. He thought the outcome of Britain’s
application would be. known within six
months.
Though perhaps not going as far as
Mr Leslie Bury’s view reiterated at a
meeting of the American Chamber of
Commerce in Australia last week that
Britain's entry would not do very much
more than sharpen the issues which
faced Australia in any case, Sir lan
Potter thinks that by 1970 when prefer-
ential terms would have been phased
away, Australia should have had time to
correct its overseas trade position.
He believes the Federal Government
was quite right in its forceful presen-
tation of Australia’s case in Britain and
Europe earlier this year as this was the
only way to make Europe sit up and take
notice.
In any case Sir lan considers it is an
outdated view for Australia to rely on
preferences in “a relatively small market
of 50 million people 12,000 miles away.”
We should rather be looking nearer at
hand to countries such as Indonesia
where rising standards of living could
open up big potential markets.
Sir lan, whose main mission in the
US was to attend meetings of the world
bank and IMF as an advisor to the
Federal Treasurer, thinks that only time
will tell whether the present international
liquidity arrangements which came under
fire of Britain's representatives at the IMF
meeting will suffice.
He was impressed by efforts of central
banks in pooling resources to come to
the aid of ailing foreign currencies and
so lighten the strain on the US gold
reserves.
This co-operation would shortly be
supplemented by the implementation of
Per Jacobsson's plan to increase IMF re-
sources by six thousand million dollars.
The dollar had, he said, improved its
position somewhat by internal stability in
the States compared, say, with Western
Germany, where wages had been out-
stripping productivity increases in the
last two years. He considered that de-
valuation of the dollar could be ruled out
in present circumstances.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
PASTORAL VIEW OF THE TARIFF
VjyiTH businessmen rubbing their eyes at
" * the twists and turns of the tariff, not-
ably’ on woollens and synthetic piece-
goods, Mr G. D’A. Chislett, economist to
the Australian Woolgrowers and Gra-
ziers’ Council, provided useful guiding
light last week.
Like many other economists Mr Chis-
lett has been stung by the ready accep-
tance by the Special Advisory Authority
of the cases put up to him for temporary
duties.
As he says, “26 of the 28 answers re-
ceived by the Minister for Trade to his
references to the Special Advisory Autho-
rity have confirmed the Minister’s ap-
praisal of the situation: the necessary
extra-ordinary duties (or quantitative res-
trictions in two cases) to restore the
industry’s share of the market or return
on funds invested h&vt been imposed,”
Stripped of its formalities, the pro-
cess is quite arbitrary; the results prove
that it is futile to oppose a reference once
it goes to the Special Advisory Authority.
With extra-ordinary duties being im-
posed at a rate of once per week, it may
be questioned, says Mr Chislett, whether
this is a situation consistent with the pro-
vision of the GATT (Article XIX) which
the Government invoked when the Tariff
Board Act was amended to provide for
the creation of the Special Advisory
Authority.
Article XIX provides for emergency
action on imports of particular products
when, “as a result of unforeseen develop-
ments”, imports cause or threaten serious
injury to domestic producers, in which
case the contracting party may take ac-
tion to restrict imports “to the extent
and for such time as may be necessary to
prevent or remedy such injury.”
One of the “unforseen developments”
used to justify the creation of the Special
Advisory Authority and the resort to
“temporary” duties, namely, “substantial
reduction of domestic demand resulting
from general economic circumstances
operating in Australia”, is gradually pass-
ing as the level of economic activity is
rising.
The very improvement in the state of
the economy may see the emergence of
another circumstance when the Special
Advisory Authority may be asked to ad-
vise, he,, “a situation in which a serious
run-down of overseas balances was
threatened”,
“How can the different criteria of the
Special Advisory Authority and the
Tariff Board be reconciled?” Chislett
asks.
The former is required to recommend
duties or quantitative restrictions which
will prevent or remedy any serious injury
to the applicant industry in the short-
term, whereas the Board has the role of
inquiring into the long-term possibilities
for protection “when the normal criteria
will be taken into account, including the
criteria that an industry should be econo-
mic and efficient”.
Even though economic activitv has re-
covered, it is hardly to be expected that
an industry which has been given “tem-
porary” protection because it has suffered
a reduction in its share of the domestic
market due to cost disadvantage against
imports, will, six to 12 months later,
have so improved its cost position vis-a-
vis overseas industry as to be able to re-
gain the local market with the aid of
“normal” duties only.
Yet the Tariff Board, if it applies its
normal criteria, will not be able to justify
protection of the order found necessary
by the Special Advisory Authority unless
it is prepared to adopt a very flexible
concept of “economic and efficient” in-
dustry.
So Mr Chislett puts this question: In
relation to what should our industry be
economic and efficient?
The qualities of being economic and
efficient when applied to industrial pro-
duction can only be relative, and for the
purpose of determining tariff duties com-
parisons must be international.
In the past, the basis for most com-
parisons has been the United Kingdom,
because most of our imports came from
that source; but the pattern of trade is
changing, and even greater changes are
in prospect with Britain’s entry into the
EEC and under the impetus of the US
Trade Expansion Programme.
Having based our assessment of “eco-
nomic and efficient” heavily on British
industry, we will find that in particular,
industries of other countries are even
more efficient. To what extent, then, can
the Australian community afford to deny
itself access to the most economic source
of imports?
Not only do we suffer an immediate
economic loss by cutting ourselves off
from the cheapest source of imports, but
we impair our whole ability to finance
growing import needs. As one of her
main reasons for seeking membership of
the EEC, the UK has given the fact that
members of the Commonwealth have in-
creasingly protected themselves against
British exports.
Can Australia now adopt the same
policy against her new export customers
such as the low cost Japan, or the high
cost but more efficient USA?
As a reason for increasing tariffs, in
recent years more and more emphasis
has been laid on the necessity for domes*
tic industry to have a greater share of
the market, and a large proportion of
the recommendations for “temporary”
duties has been based on the conclusion
that the applicant industry has suffered
a reduction in its share of the market.
Basically, concern with the size of the
market springs from the changing char-
acter of industry, which is becoming
highly capital intensive and which, there-
fore, needs to operate continuously at or
near full capacity in order to be profit-
able, because of the high ratio of fixed
to operating costs.
However, the validity of the theory
does not imply that all highly capitalised
industry should be given sufficient pro-
tection to guarantee it practically the
whole of the market; this applies -/en
though every firm in the industry might
be technically efficient. The real test is
whether the structure of the industry as
a whole is economically sound.
If there is over-capacity in an industry,
or if production is spread over too many
firms, then the virtual exclusion of im-
ports in an attempt to ensure “adequate”
profits on capital invested is a very ex-
pensive Sc’ution.
HARDENING OF
THE ARTERIES
HThe dangers of excessive use of fixed
interest capital were stressed by Mr
A. B. Mellor in an address to the Bank-
ers’ Administrative Staff College at
Mt Martha, near Melbourne, last week.
This excessive use of fixed interest
capital, notably deposits which were not
transferable, had tended to make busines-
ses inflexible, a sort of hardening of the
arteries taking place, he said. Another
danger brought to light in the last two
years was that “somewhat indiscriminate”
borrowing on fixed term had led some
companies into the trap of “borrowing
short and lending long.”
Mr Mellor said that even the accept-
ance by companies of call and short-
term deposits which had been used to
finance stock, could prove unsound fin-
ancing. There was ample evidence during
the credit squeeze of companies which
used this means of financing, running
into financial bother, hoping that their
bankers would carry them, when, in fact,
under the Reserve Bank restrictions this
was not possible.
It would seem, he said, that where
money was borrowed at call or on short-
term deposit, there should be some um-
brella arrangement with the banke-, or
with some other outside financing
authority. This would protect not only
the company and the banker, but also
the depositor.


SIR EDGAR COLES' NEW CAPITAL SLANT
Having succeeded in digesting its huge
equity issue last year and raised its
earnings rate on the higher capital to a
fraction over 15 p.c., that is, slightly
above the 14.8 p.c. earned in 1960-61,
G. J. Coles is planning even more expan-
sion, more capital raising.
Sir Edgar Coles, who returned from an
overseas trip last week, said the group
would be spending about £1 million a
year on expansion, mostly in the super-
market field, over the next ten years or
so.
He gave the impression that the group
had just about exhausted the possibilities
of establishing new variety stores. They
are practically everywhere, and there
are few new' places Coles could go to.
At present, variety stores provide about
70 p.c. of sales and profits.
So Coles is now really to get its teeth
into supermarket expansion, in which
food and groceries (these at present
account for 30 p.c. of sales), would be
the main selling lines.
Sir Edgar thinks the firm has barely
scratched the surface of sales potential
in supermarket development. He says the
return on capital invested in supermarkets
should be about the same as for variety
stores, because though the net profit
margin would be lower, the turnover on
sales per square foot of store space was
double that in the varieties.
How'ever, while shareholders w'ould not
be forgotten in the process of raising
finance for supermarket developments, Sir
Edgar made it quite clear that part of
the money would come from fixed interest
funds. This was because the return on
the building of a supermarket w'ould be
slow, say three years to get a fair return
on capital.
Thus far the group has relied singu-
larly little on fixed interest borrowing.
At June 20, 1962, there w'ere only £2
million in two note issues directly in this
class and another £3.3 million in other
long term liabilities (mostly mortgages
|on freehold properties).
Against this stockholders’ funds stood
at £33.7 million, of which £22.1 million
W'as in ordinary capital and £11.6 million
in reserves and retained profits.
As the latter gained just on £850,000
from operations in 1961-62, there is not
such a big gap between the current annual
accretion to reserves and Sir Edgar’s
expected capital expenditure of £1 million
a year. The group would nearly be able
to finance expansion from its internal
resources on the latter expectation, so
its new requirements both of fixed interest
and equity capital could well be small, at
I reast on this score, in the next few years.
HPhe 1961-62 performance of Marcus
x Clark & Co. Ltd in producing record
profit, which was about 36 p.c. higher
than the previous best (way back in
1956), and record sales of about £8 mil-
lion, was the more impressive on reflec-
tion that retailing was generally rather
dull business during that period.
Furthermore the profit of over
£184,000 included only 9 months’ results
from Sydney Cold Stores, whereas the
previous year's results had the benefit of
18 months’ trading for two subsidiaries
and 13 months’ trading for three others.
The proposal to split the 10s. shares
(now selling around 19s. Bd. to yield 5.1
p.c.) to the more common denominator
of ss. should attract more attention to the
stock.
But better value for those interested in
the stock are the 8 p.c. notes which will
convert into four -rdinary :'s. shares on
January 31, 1965. These participate in
all cash issues of shares or notes, and the
company has covenanted not to mal e a
bonus issue during the currency of the
notes.
If the company can keep up the new
dividend rate of 10 p.c., the noteholders
may miss out on about Is. 9d. of income
until matu ity, but -t 335. (yield 4.9 p.c.)
they can outweigh this wit' an apparent
capital gain of about 6s. 4d.
Credit Corporation Ltd
cleared the air with presentation of
its 1961-62 accounts and chairman’s
address.
The profit (up 34 p.c. on higher capi-
tal) was reported about six weeks ago.
The chairman (Mr. J. Dean) declared
in his address that the company's high
standard of securities was not fortuitous
but maintained by close control. Of £14.5
million total outstandings £12.2 million
were secured by mortgages over real
estate which had been independently
valued as well as checked by company
experts, and the other £2.3 million were
hire purchase agreements and bills of sale
in very good order.
The current unsecured note issue for
£500,000, which opened in May, has
now collected over-subscriptions of £1.5
million.
Directors say that the company’s
growth is limited only by the amount
of money which it can borrow. Estab-
lishment of branches during the year in
Brisbane and Wagga has increased the
company’s borrowing ability.
Sales of real estate, jointly with G. B.
Eggers Pty (in which Cambridge ac-
quired a share interest) contin led to be
profitable.
Directors behaved with circumspec-
tion during the squeeze, and the com-
pany must be sounder for the experience.
the world of business
"As chairman of your company "Top Pops" Records Ltd.— I'll clue
you cats in on the year's activities. Like, man, the profit after tax is a
but to stay on the top of the charts we'll have to get hip to Trad
and play it like cool, Dads, cool!"


mw
'M-
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on Btb March, 1950.
10/
2/0
PER ANNUM
3 YEARS
The main business of
Cambridge Credit
Corporation Limited
is to make loans on
the security of first
mortgages on prop-
erty and the ac-
ceptance of selected
hire purchase agree-
ments.
FUNDS MAY BE WITHDRAWN IN A PERSONAL EMERGENCY
APPLICATIONS MUST BE MADE ON THE FORM ATTACHED
TO THE PROSPECTUS, WHICH IS NOW AVAILABLE FROM:
The Company's Registered Offices
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Fir., Empire House, Corner Wharf and Quern Streets.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Stree'.
PERTH: 81 St. George's Terrace.
CANBERRA: Ist Floor, Northbourne Chambers, Northbourne Ave., City
NEWCASTLE WEST: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter Sfn et.
WAGGA: 147 Bayiiss Street.
Any Member of the Stock Exchange
or from an y of fhe following Brokers to The Issue:
RALPH W. KING & YUiLL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
TRUSTEES FOR THE NOTEHOLDERS:
Bankers & Traders Insurance Company Limited CCI46/AB
Clip and Post Coupon
. TS 20/10
Cambridge Credit Corporation Limited,
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me without obligation a copy of the prospectus with application forms.
NAME
ADDRESS
INSTANT ENGINE STARTING
WITH— nsrifftm
113
iHHi
Proven the world over and endorsed
by Rolls Royce.
Avoid unnecessary engine
wear—just one quick spray
info the air intake is ali
that's required. Saves money
by avoiding cylinder scour-
ing and gives longer battery
and starter life. Contains
anti-corrosive and ar.ti-knock
additives with upper
cylinder lubricant.
Lass than 2d. per start —Aerostart is available at only 21/6 from all garages and stores
Manufactured by:
AEROSTART (ANZiA) PTY. LTD.
2 Queens Rood, Melbourne. 26-4653
Hares and Hounds
T)reference shareholders of Ralph
Symonds Ltd want to run with the
hares and hunt with the hounds. They
are in the unusual position of being
entitled to participate in issues of ordinary
shares, and a fixed cumulative prefer-
ence dividend of 6 p.c.
Now three shareholders put a proposi-
tion to the Board that the preference
shares participate to 8 p.c. They were
alarmed at the plummeting of the ordin-
ary shares to ss. lOd.
Their suggestion to directors to call an
extraordinary general meeting of this class
of preference shareholders at least
brought a 3d. improvement in the price
of the ordinary shares the following day.
Float on ski-land
The long awaited float of the ski-land
offshoot of James Wallace (Hold-
ings) Ltd should see the light of day over
the next few weeks. Final draft of the
prospectus has been delayed by comple-
tion of the transfer of leases from the
parent company.
The ski venture will offer ss. shares
at par to the public through a Sydney
broker with a portion of the issue re-
served for James Wallace shareholders
Name of the new company could well
be Smiggin Resorts Ltd. The company
will build a hotel at Smiggin’s Hole in the
Kosciusko StaL Park to accommodate 70
guests. It alreaady has two ski-lodges in
the area, one accommodating 24 and the
other, a private lodge, accommodating 18.
During the coming summer months the
company will build several new ski tows
in the area, and sites have also been pre-
pared for 14 new lodges.
Worthwhile risk
Tnvestors looking for a return of more
than 18 per cent, annually over the
next two years could spare a glance at
Kauri Timber convertible notes. These
have been depressed because of the
heavy loss in the last two years.
With the 20s. ordinary shares currently
selling about 6s 6d., even at 16s. 6d. for
the 20s. notes they appear over priced
on a conversion basis. But noteholders
have the option, exerciseable in Decem-
ber 1963, to convert into ordinary shares
or have the notes repaid in cash in August
1964.
For investors who are prepared to
take the risk that the company may not
have the £750,000 cash required (if all
noteholders take cash) in two years’ time,
there is an immediate capital gain of
3s. 6d. —8f p.c. annually. In the mean-
time, there is still the 8 p.c. interest, which
on current levels show's a yield of 9.7
p.c. The company is rich in assets, if
not in earning power, so repayment even-
tually appears assured.


THE PROSPECT
COUNTY COUNCIL
ELECTRICITY LOAN
IS NOW OPEN
5§% for 7, 10 or 20 years
GUARANTEED BY THE GOVERNMENT
OF N.S.W.
AUTHORISED TRUSTEE INVESTMENT in N.S.W., Queensland,
Western Australia and Tasmania.
Trading income of the Council for 1962 is estimated at £8,500,000
a dramatic increase on the £2,139,657 earned in 1957 —the Council’s
first year of operation. Phenomenal development in the Council’s area
continuously creates new demands for power. Electricity sales for the
first half of 1962 were 13.95% higher than for the same period in 1961.
APPLY to any Branch of the Commonwealth Trading Bank of
Australia, Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited, Bank of New
South Wales, The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited,
through a Stockbroker, or Council's offices (’phone 637 0144) at
Merrylands, Parramatta, Blacktown, Castle Hill, Fairfield, Liverpool,
Penrith, Richmond and Wentworthville.
OSP*
THE PROSPECT
COUNTY COUNCIL
Electricity Undertaking
Serving the Cities of Parramatta, Penrith and Liverpool, the Municipalities of
Blacktown, Fairfield, Holroyd, and Windsor and the Shires of Baulkham Hills
and Colo.
Loan underwritten by A. C. Goode & Co.
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
Aged debutantes presented
fPwo relative but unrelated newcomers
-*• to the Sydney Stock Exchange have
reported first public results for
the year ended June 30. Both are well
versed in business, one especially so,
therefore their first waltz was watched
with interest.
Penfolds Wines Australia Ltd earned
£206,101, after £149,748 tax and
£97,643 for depreciation, all very much
in line with prospectus figures for 1960-
61. The 10 p.c. dividend also was as
expected.
McAlister and Williams (Holdings)
Ltd, the iron and steel merchant, disap-
pointed investors somewhat with a profit
of £40,003 compared with £54,602 in
1960-61 adjusted for public company tax
rates.
The 10 p.c. dividend, however, was
up to prospectus expectations, and was
reasonably covered by earnings of 13.3
p.c.
A depressed rural market affected de-
mand for galvanised iron and fencing
material. Sales, which were 10 p.c. behind
1960-61 at the half-way mark, did
accelerate in the second half of the year,
so that the year's turnover was only 6
p.c. lower.
Hanimex clicks
TJanimex Corporation Ltd wisely made
sure of a good build-up of reserves
before returning to the dividend list after
an absence of three years.
The Sydney-based photographic equip-
ment maker and importer ran into trouble
in 1957-58 with a net trading loss of
some £55,000. Profits accumulated in
subsequent years and the latest result of
£155,925, being 28.5 p.c. on capital,
justifies the dividend of 10 p.c.
The net tangible asset backing after
the dividend is 6s. 7d. per ss. share, and
the shares have run up to 6s. 9d. from
this year's low of 4s. 7d.
Group sales rose impressively by 23
p.c. to £2,990,954. Expenditure in pro-
moting overseas sales reduced the inci-
dence of taxation.
Pleasant surprise
'I/’ictorian electronic and TV compon-
ent maker, R. W. Steane, whose
shares have been regarded favorably in
The Bulletin this year, sprung the most
pleasant surprise of the year by stepping
up its dividend from 6 to 9 p.c. as a
result of more than doubling profits.
The news was coupled with a further
indication of rising sales so far this year,
despite a change-over in production
models. The company is currently build-
ing a new factory at Glen Waverley, a
Melbourne suburb, and expects to
occupy it by January.


Earning rate soars
tJ'TiE Nightingale Supply Co. Ltd is re-
A ceiving greater recognition since pub-
lication of its 1961-62 results, and the
ss. shares have moved up to around 14s.
9d.
The company supplies general chemi-
cals to commerce and industry, chemicals
and detergents to the dairy and food
industries, household cleaners, sealers to
the building trade (made under licence
to Tremco of the US), and adhesives to
the timber and packaging industries,
while a subsidiary contracts to clean
commercial buildings, factories and in-
stitutions using all Nightingale products.
A bonus of one-for-four was handed
out to shareholders late in 1960, and
when imports competition affected pro-
fits in 1961, the earning rate subsided
from 21.2 to 14.1 p.c. on the higher
capital.
The latest profit rate of 30.2 p.c. on
ordinary capital sounds more in line
with the company’s ability, but it does
not justify any further reduction in the
present income yield of 4.7 p.c. on earn-
ings yield of 10.2 p.c.
Broker “cops the lot”
IIfiLLiAM Noall and Son have taken
* * firm the full public issue of 200,000
10s. ordinary shares at par of Stokes
(Australasia) Ltd, which will shortly be
listed in Melbourne. The background
of this old-established Victorian metal
fabricator was outlined in The Bulletin
(September 8).
The prospectus reveals earnings for
the year to June 30, 1962, as 13.5 p.c.
on the paid up capital of £400,000
after the issue. The chairman says: “The
current year has opened wo 1 1, sales have
increased and outstanding orders are at
a very satisfactory level.” He forecasts
a dividend of not less than 8 p.c. Net
tangible assets at June 30 were 11s. Bd.
a share.
Unheeded advice
J>y hoisting Regent Motors to an 8
p.c. yield basis before the pleasing
profit announcement for 1961-62, the
market seemed to be taking far too pessi-
mistic a-view. The anomaly between the
yield of 5 p.c. on Lanes, the Melbourne
BMC distributor, and Regent (VW,
Rover and Volvo) was pointed out in
The Bulletin of September 1, but went
unheeded.
In the event Lanes pushed its profit
up by 20 p.c. and Reyent by 29 p.c.
last year, albeit from a relatively lower
floor in Regent’s case. But now that the
figures for both companies are known
and both have held their dividends
(Lanes with superior cover) the main
question lies in the comparative pros-
pects for selling various makes and
whether the motor boom is in for a
longer run than last time.
Investors will have their own ideas,
but Regent (in which Clyde Industries
has a controlling interest) looks cheap
at around 6s. 6d. on its own merits.
Projecting the DJ image
Interstate and Sydney suburban ex-
pansion has at last strained the
liquid resources of David Jones Ltd,
which last week announced its first share
issue in 12 years.
In fact, shareholders were last called
on in April, 1961, to subscribe to a
convertible note issue, just before legisla-
tion clamped down on such issues by
declaring the interest non-deductible for
tax purposes. Now the noteholders par-
ticipate in the coming share issue.
Since the opening of the Parramatta
store and modernisation of stores in
Newcastle and Townsville, major pro-
jects on DJ’s plate are the completion
of the rebuilding of the Adelaide store,
the establishment of new stores in lease-
hold premises at Canberra and Brook-
vale (Sydney), which should open for
trading early in 1963, and the rebuilding
of the Wollongong store to treble its
original size.
In each of the last four years DJ’s has
set aside the best part of £.250,000 for
building replacement. The 1961-62 pro-
fit (year to July 31) before this provi-
sion, was equal to an earning rate of
28.7 p.c., which on the current market
gives DJ's shares a higher earnings yield
than every other major retailer. But
the issue is on the cards until payment
in full on application next February 28.
The ss. shares are being offered at
3s. premium to shareholders in the ratio
of one-for-six and to holders of the 10s.
notes in the ratio M one-for-three. The
issue will raise just under £2 million to
project the DJ image beyond Sydney
city stores.
Deserves a thought
Tohnson Leather Co. Ltd reversed a
** falling profit trend with publication
of a £169,735 net result for the year
to June. Overseas sales brought tax con-
cessions, but otherwise full provision for
tax was made, involving £114,338.
The earning rate moved up to 10.2
p.c. allowing a return to 7 p.c. dividends
after six years at 6 p.c.
The company, since listing in 1949,
has made profits every year, and paid
dividends of either 6 or 7 p.c. The group
is recognised as over-capitalised, with
£335,857 in preference shares, and
£1,492,739 in ordinary shares of 20s.
denomination. The asset backing per
share on 1960-61 books was 275. lOd.
The ordinary shares at about 16s.
below par (to yield 8.7 p.c.) deserve more
earnest consideration for income pur-
poses.
OIL
LIVELY INTEREST IN
SHARE DEALINGS
A fter spudding in its well lamara No.
1 in the Oriomo Fly River area
in Papua, Oil Search Ltd has still to
clinch its proposed deal with Burmah-
Murphy to get that group to take a 50
p.c. interest in exploring its other permit
areas in the territory.
Burmah-Murphy’s option to join on
a 50-50 basis was due to expire on
November 10, but has now been extend-
ed for three months. In the meantime,
principals of Burmah-Murphy intend to
have discussions with the Federal Gov-
ernment on future plans for the de-
velopment of the known commercial gas
areas in Papua.
Preliminary surveys by Burmah-
Murphy have shown that these gas fields
could be developed with a view to serv-
ing new industries in the territory.
This indicates that Burmah-Murphy’s
participation could possibly be confined
to already located gas areas, without in-
volving new wells designed to discover oil.
However, it could change its mind in the
event of an oil find at lamara.
Meantime, with the new well, its first
for 18 months, Oil Search shares have
been attracting more attention in the
market, buyers coming in whenever they
ease to around the 3s level.
On the other hand, Clarence Oil, in
whose current operations in the Grafton
area Burmah-Murphy has a 50 p.c. in-
terest, has been stealing the limelight in
the oil search share market. One sugges-
tion is that there has been some US buy-
ing of the shares. Options held by some
shareholders to buy a large number of
shares at 3s expired at the end of Sep-
tember.
The group isn’t even drilling at pres-
ent. Its last well, Clifton No. 2, was
temporarily sealed off in May after strik-
ing gas which was reported to have been
increasing in volume before being sealed
off.
Clarence has plans to drill five more
wells in the structure with the object
of locating commercial supplies of gas,
which it expects will measure about 5
million cubic ft a day. The fifst of these
wells is expected to be spudded-in to-
wards the end of this month.
This programme is in the hands of the
Burmah Oil Company. The other in-
terested parties are Clarence River Oil,
Murphy-Australia Oil and the Southern
Oil Company.


A. 1. NEVITT. DRAPER & CO.
A. L NEVIT'i, A. C. DRAPER,
N W C. DRAPER
(Members o/ Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
L’he National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street. Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address 1 “NEVITTCO”
Phone. 31-276) P.O BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
c Denham Street, Phone 6089
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines)
150 Queen St.. Melbourne
67-5957 (7 lines)
43 Northbourne Ave.,
City, Canberra, A.C.T.
4 0365-66
Flinders House, Crown St., Wollongong
B 5900
■Telegram.- ana CaDles
■Kosdale” Sydney. Melbourne
or Wollongong
LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHAKE BROKERS
Sixth Floor,
56 Hunter Street, Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
telephone; BW 5721.
Telegrams and Cables:
“LAGRAM,” Sydney.
WANTED TO BUY
FOR CASH
Shares, listed or unlisted,
Forestry Bonds, etc.
J. W. GRANT & CO.
549 St. Kilda Road.
Melbourne.
Telephones: 51-6243 51-6245
Est. 1939
FIRST MORTGAGE
A firm of City Solicitors have clients
wishing to borrow on first mortgage on
Real Estate.
Amounts from £5OO may be invested for
periods of 3 months to 3 years.
INTEREST 9%
Principals, their Accountants and/or
Solicitors are invited to reply.
TELEPHONE:
27-8301 -27-4630
or write
Solicitor, P.O. Box 109,
George Street North,
Sydney.
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
A broker just back from England was
saying the other day that among the
most Widely held Australian shares in the
UK were L. J. Hooker, Reid Murray
and, dare I say it, Ready Mixed Con-
crete. And we wonder why Britain now
prefers the Common Market!
The Common Market, however, no
longer seems to be the bogey it once
was, not even for Sir lan Potter or
John Fairfax. At the end of last week
even the share market seemed to be in
a more cheerful mood. Then at the
weekend two of the Sunday papers,
with frequently opposing viewpoints,
agreed. Said one, “In the period of re-
lative stability between the booms, in-
vestors buy their best value.” 1962 could
well prove to have been just such a
year—even for BHP.
The other paper put much the same
idea in different words —“The late buyer
often kicks himself that after finally
being convinced to buy, he discovers
he came in a bit late and bought while
the market was surging forward strong-
ly.” That could be the case by the New
Year.
Mr. Ricketson’s exhortation to buy a
few months ago may, in fact, have been
better timed than the advice last week
from his fellow Melbourne oracle.
In spite of all this gathering optimism,
I began last week in a mood to sell.
When I saw Vesta up to ss. I put in
an order to sell but the price fell just
as quickly and I still have my Vesta.
Serves me right for taking any notice
of the rumours.
I had better luck with Courtaulds and
scored a £56 profit with the sale of 600
at 13s. 9d. These brought in £405, of
which I still had £298 after sr/’aring my
account with my broker.
On Thursday I was roused to action
by my editor who noted that I had been
playing a more cautious buying game
lately.
First, 1 looked hard at CIG at 765.
6d., but, remembering my current ex-
perience with James Hardie, restrained
myself. James Hardie has for years
been successfully contending with the
competition only now confronting CIG,
so that it strikes me as a much safer
proposition at 935. than CIG at 755.
or 80s.
Down the other end of the price scale
there seemed to be some real possibilities
in the 6s. range—Finance and Guarantee,
Ralph Symonds and Kauri Timber.
The thing about Kauri Timber is that
the par value of its shares is £1 not 55.!
Whatever this company’s problems are
and no doubt they are considerable—
surely the shares are worth more than
a third of their par value. So I bought
500 at 6s. 6d.
I thought hard about Finance and
Guarantee and Ralph Symonds, and,
after conceding that they both had some
scope for improvement, passed them up
in favour of Wancol.
Poor little Wancol has really been
languishing lately at the Siberian end
of the list. Its £1 shares have been sold
down to 12s. or 13s. Admittedly its
profit fell last year, but it was still
equal to 12.6 p.c. on capital. This was
better than the directors had expected,
with the result that they were able to
pay a steady final dividend of 3f p.c.
a f ter cutting the interim to 3 p.c.
At 12s. Bd., at which I bought 400,
the dividend yield was good enough at
10.6 p.c., but the earnings yield was no
less than 20 p.c. Almost as good as
Hanimex.
I realise than Wancol has problems
with markets for coal from its colliery
at Wallerawang. But the shares should
be closer to par than they are now.
These purchases will, I hope, refute
my editor's suggestion that my confidence
is cracking. But the price was high be-
cause by the end of the week I again
owed my broker £l4O.
There’s plenty in my portfolio that
could be sold. Marcus Clark notes? No,
sir. That company’s result was so good
last week that the shares (and the notes)
look the outstanding retail buy on the
market.
However, O'Donnell Griffin and Auto
and General Finance, while still excellent
investments, are probably too longer-term
propositions for flighty speculators. So
I may take my profits on these two be-
fore long.
SOLD
600 Courtaulds at 13/9 £405
BOUGHT
500 Kauri Timber at 6/6 £l6B
400 Wancol at 12/8 £260
These changes give me a portfolio of:
No. of Nome of Dote rent
shores Company Bought Share Price
600 O'Donnell Griffin 28/8/61 13/6 19/!
2000 United Motels 20/11/61 3/9 3/9
400 Auto and General
„„„ Jli nar ! ce 8/2/62 19/9 24/6
800 Goodwins 21/3/62 5/9 6/2
400 Mai leys 3/5/62 20/9 23/-
2000 Hanimex 23/5/62 5/11 7/-
300 National Consol. 30/5/62 26/1 25/-
300 Marcus Clark notes 22/6/62 27/6 33/6
100 James Hardie 29/6/62 98/- 93/-
100 CSR 1/8/61 49/- 49/9
400 AWA 10/8/62 20/- 19/-
500 R. W. Miller 21/8/62 17/3 18/3
1000 Peter Lloyd 24/8/62 5/9 5/10
100 AOG 27/8/62 55/6 56/3
1000 AN’I 14/9/62 4/- 4/-
400 Western Mining 19/9/62 15/9 18/-
200 Shipping! News 20/9/62 24/- 23/6
1000 Vesta 27/9/62 3/9 3/6
500 Kauri 11/10/62 6/6 6/4
400 Wancol 11/10/62 12/8 12/8


INVESTMENT ADVISOR Y SER VICE
Deaders of The Bulletin can use
a personal investment advisory
service.
If you have an investment prob-
lem, write to the Financial Editor,
attaching the coupon at right.
The Bulletin financial staff will
seek out the information you require.
Selected letters of enquiry will be
published (without the names of
writers) together with the Editor’s
answers.
All communications will be treated
as confidential.
COUPON
ATTACH REQUEST, AND POST
TO:
FINANCIAL EDITOR,
The Bulletin, BOX 2521 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY
MR
NAME mrs
MISS
ADDRESS:
STATE
THE BULLETIN ADVISORY
SERVICE
From a large number of readers' letters seeking "The
Bulletin's " advice on investment matters, these have been selected
for publication. The balance have been answered personally .
7 have £lOOO in Cox Bros 8 p.c. de-
posits (five year period) and have a fur-
ther £5OO for immediate investment.
Would this be reasonably sound in Cox
Bros, or can you suggest an alternative
for five years? — J. F. ( Inglewood, WA).
While your holding appears sound
enough, it would be prudent to diversify
a little.
Looking at shares listed on the Perth
Exchange we would suggest 200 Per-
petual Trustee at about Bs. 6d. yielding
6.4 p.c.; 200 Ampol at about 11s. 6d.
yielding 6.1 p.c.; 200 Peters (WA) at
about 20s. yielding 3.1 p.c.; 200 Swan
Cement at about 9s. 6d. yielding 5.3 p.c.
This should give you a varied interest in
sound growth stocks.
★ ★ ★
7 have about £6OO for investment.
Could you advise a stock for capital
appreciation? — R. Y. (North Sydney).
You should invest in more than one
company, and we suggest three possible
companies:—
First, Commonwealth Engineering Co.
Ltd whose ss. shares can be purchased
for 6s. 9d. to yield 7.4 p.c. The second
is Lanray whose 2s. shares cost 4s. 4d,
but are well worth the premium, paying
a 124 p.c. dividend which is covered 2.2
times. Third, Lend Lease which are at a
high premium, but still a grand growth
prospect.
Should Lend Lease not be considered
because of its price an alternative could
be Hanimex at 6s. 9d. or Caesar Fabrics
at 7s. 3d, especially the former, which
enjoys a large export market.
★ ★ ★
7 find myself with approximately
£l5OO to invest. My present small hold-
ing comprises 50 BHP and 100 CSR
rights — C.F.W. (Corinda).
You certainly have started on the
right foot with your initial investments
(BHP and CSR). We believe that
about £2OO should be held from avail-
able funds in case of rights issues, etc.
eventuating. That leaves £l3OO to in-
vest.
First, you should bring your B.H.P.
holding up to 100 by buying 50 more.
Other purchases could well be 200
Ampol at 11s. 3d.; 100 Appleton In-
dustries at 425. 6d.; 200 Commonwealth
Engineering at 6s. 9d.; 200 C.V. Holland
at 10s. 9d.; 200 Electronic ‘B’ at 165.; 200
Felt and Textiles at 7s. 9d; 200 David
Jones at 17s. 9d; 200 Moran and Cato
at 255.; 100 Kandos Cement at 17s. 3d.
This would give you a nicely balanced
portfolio, the stocks noted being of a
growth nature. All are ss. par shares
except Appleton Industries, Electronic B
and Moran and Cato, which are all 10s.
par.
* ★ ★
7 am a member of a ladies’ investment
club, with £4O a month to invest. Our
portfolio is: 100 Aust. Guarantee, 100
Monbulk, 100 D. Jones, 100 Repco, 100
Prestige. Could you advise on future
purchases? This month we propose buy-
ing 100 shares in the vicinity of 19s.
each — M.A .F. ( Launceston ).
Your present portfolio seems strong
enough, with that promise of growth so
necessary to a good investment.
Shares around the 19s. mark (pre-
sumably ss. par) could well be Aus-
tralian Cement (16s. 6d. yielding 3.8
p.c.), Albion Quarries (16s. Bd. yielding
4.5 p.c.), Gordon and Gotch (18/- yield-
ing 5.1 p.c.) and Reids Quarries (16s.
yielding 3.1 p.c.). Any of the first three
would be excellent choices.
Two other investments you should
strongly consider are Lanray (2/- shares
now 4/4 to yield 5.9 p.c.) and R.V.B.
Engineering (whose ss. shares stand at
20s. 9d. and yield 3.6 p.c.). The record
and accounts of the latter strongly sug-
gest some other return to shareholders, if
not immediately then in the not too dis-
tant future.
I require £5OO to complete a real
estate transaction. Which of my stocks
should “get the axe?”. I hold 1,300
Exoil (down), 400 Weed mans (up), 400
Annand & Thompson ordinary shares
and 400 5/- notes (up), 100 Phillips Oil
Products (up), 100 Myer Emporium
down), 100 Brisbane TV (down), 1,000
Northstate Bowling (up), 200 Bradford
Cotton (even), 288 L. J. Hooker (down
with a crash), 1,000 North Broken Hill
fully paid (down), 300 North Broken
Hill Contributing (up).
D. J. L. (Buranda).
You are obviously “long” in one or
two stocks which as you suggest should
“get the axe”.
You have far too many Northstate
Bowling shares for the size of the re-
mainder of your portfolio and the sale
of at least 600 should be made. This
would bring you in about £125.
Disposal of one of your holdings in
Annand & Thompson seems advisable.
The notes appear to offer at least the
prospect of capital appreciation plus an
8% return whereas the motor distribu-
tors dividends have over the past few
years shown a tendency to fluctuate.
Sale of the shares would bring about
£165.
Hooker shares will take a long time
to recover and you would be advised
to cut your losses. Sale of the 288 would
realise about £55.
Your holding of North Broken Hill
shares also appears large in relation to
your other holdings and in particular
because of the vagaries of overseas
metal prices in recent years, so a sale
of say 200 to raise about £125 plus the
sale of the contribs on which you are
ahead, should raise the £5OO you
require.
Your holding in Exoil also appears
rather large, but because of the amount
involved seems hardly, at this stage,
worth reducing.


.HELP
all the .year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM2OOI.
FINANCE
CORPORATION
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
{lncorporated in South Australia )
FULLY SECURED REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
PER‘ANNUM 15 YEARS
lyicr
124)
I>M* ANNUM:
WEARS
i
PER ANNUM
SYEARS
Iwsm
„ 4 m
PER ANNUM
Prospectuses and forms of application
should be obtained from:—
The Bank of Adelaide,
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited,
Members of the Stock Exchanges,
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth.
Applications for Debenture Stock can be accepted
only on the printed form attached to the prospectus.
W 579
ONE TO BUY
PRACTICALLY AN ALL-TIME
BARGAIN ENTRY
Tn the quiet pool of today’s stock
-*■ markets are some big fish which are
worth tabbing before they resume their
predestined course in the mainstreams of
lusiness. One of these must surely be
Woolworths Ltd, once known solely as
chain store retailer of variety goods.
Diversion of some energies into food
retailing, both as separate stores and in-
corporated in existing variety stores, as
well as into lingerie manufacture and re-
tailing, and the retailing of moderately-
priced outerwear for women, with full
credit facilities, brings entirely different
character to the Woolworth name.
Entry to lingerie was made through
the takeover of Chic Salons in November,
1961, for £1.25 million in a premium
issue of shares. The apparel business
was entered via Rockmans in a share
premium deal worth about £5 million.
The most recent expansive step was
the purchase for about £750,000 cash
of seven retail outlets from Buckinghams
Ltd.
Woolworths’ management never lets
the structure of the store chain ossify.
The numerous acquisitions recently have
produced duplication in some centres.
A store may be closed, sold or converted
according to what is required.
We do know that Woolworths’ variety
stores and food fairs are found all over
the Commonwealth [and the company
has a controlling interest in Woolworths
(NZ) Ltd], that Rockmans operates in
all States but WA, and that Chic is found
in Queensland, NSW, Victoria, SA and
the ACT.
But we may have to wait until next
April for a clear picture of Woolworths’
numerical strength in each field. Even
then it will be only a snapshot picture, as
the progressive nature of the business
demands constant coverage by newsreel.
Turning to the figures for the year to
January 31, 1961, Woolworths earned
£1,917,971 or 14.8 p.c. on average
capital, from which the usual 12 p.c.
dividend was paid.
A trading statement for the half-year
to August, 1962, reported that sales and
profits had substantially increased over
those of the previous corresponding
period. Woolworths added 33 stores to
the chains (29 in new buildings) by the
date of the report, or approximately one
a week. A new warehouse at Silver-
water, one of the biggest and most
modern in Australia, should be com-
pleted this year.
The shares look very solid buying at
the present time, while rights to the one*
for-five par issue are being traded at
around Bs. Id. Eventual entry on Janu-
ary 24, one week before next balance
date, at a cost of 13s. Id., is practically
an all-time bargain. One can’t guaran-
tee money back if not satisfied, but
investors purchasing Woolworths shares
at this price should have no cause for
complaint.


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
PITT, SON AND BADGERY
RIPE FOR A BONUS ISSUE
Shareholders of Pitt, Son and Badgery
Ltd must now be counting the days
to the time when the Company makes
another bonus issue—either as a defen-
sive move or as a reward for patience.
The company has an honorable history
going back three-quarters of a century
and its generosity in the form of bonus
issues has been remarkable.
It was formed in 1888 to take over a
business conducted under the same firm
name. Stock Exchange listing was ob-
tained in 1907 with a paid up capital of
£55,000 in 100,000 20s. shares paid to
11/-.
No cash calls were made on share-
holders between then and 1957 when
the company made an issue of conver-
tible notes. However, in the intervening
years, capital was raised to £499,196 by
bonus issues—l 4 in all.
The 7 p.c. note issue in 1957
raised £166,398, with the right to convert
to ordinary shares on a one-for-one basis
on January 1, 1963. Directors said they
would make no bonus issues during the
currency of these notes.
They must have grave doubts of the
wisdom of this decision for over the past
two years they have seen competitors
merge and being absorbed into larger
groups. The company is rich in assets
and must have appeared a choice pro-
spect.
Group accounts, presented for the first
time for the 1961-62 year, show how
wealthy the company is. The accounts
cover the parent and five subsidiaries, all
incorporated in NSW.
Based on book values at June 30 last,
each 10/- ordinary share is covered by
365. 4d. of tangible assets, but the figure
could be even higher, for land and build-
ings appear in the books at 1959 valu-
ation of £981,069.
Largest single item of reserves has
arisen from assets revaluation, and ap-
pears. at £573,643 exceeding paid up
capital by £74,447. Total reserves appear
at £1,358.166 subject to intangibles of
£30,718.
Emphasising the pastoral companies’
status as a quasi-banker to the man on
the land, clients and other debtors appear
at £1,925,573, a rise of £4899 for the
year. The credit squeeze made its
presence felt in this field, for bad debts
provision was more .han doubled during
the year from £14,067 to £33,214.
Bank overdraft is down by £298,847
to £370,692, but clients and creditors up
by £277,085 to £592,258.
The past two years has been one of
amalgamation and rationalisation in the
wool broking industry. Mergers by com-
petitors have lifted Pitt, Son from the
sixth largest wool selling agent to the
fourth position.
The Goldsbrough Mort-Elder Smith
group holds first place with about 28!
p.c. of total sales, Dalgety-NZ Loan
sells about 23! p.c., Winchcombe Carson
about 7 p.c. and Pitt, Son about 3! p.c.
As woolbroking is a major part of
the company’s activity it is not surprising
that a 15 p.c. lift in the number of
bales sold to 163,716 in 1961-62, coupled
with a rise in the average price of the
wool from 53d. and 56d. a lb., resulted
in a better year. The higher average price
enabled the company to withstand the
lower stock prices during the year to-
gether with rising costs. As a result
group profit rose to £91,630 from
£86,058 in 1960-61.
The latest result was equal to 18.3 p.c.
on capital (17.2 p.c. in 1960-61)
from which a steady 13 p.c. divid-
end paid for the past four years
absorbs £64,895. Following the consolid-
ation, surplus profit in subsidiaries’ ac-
counts was transferred to the general
reserve of the parent company, lifting it
by £208,622.
Prospects for the current year appear
good, for prices at the wool sales, after
a slow start, have picked up well and
current indications are for a firm year.
Sheep prices, both for stores and fats, are
aable and, subject to reasonable weather
conditions, show no sign of violent fluc-
tuations.
The 1961-62 year was not a good one
for cattle, either for price or season, and
a much lower turnover affected earnings
of the group’s stock department. How-
ever, the current year appeals more
stable and with the market now establish-
ed on a lower level, turnover should
improve.
The falling volumes of export to the
UK of commercial beef and mutton has
been largely offset by demand from the
US.
The shares are currently selling around
265. and show a dividend yield of 5
p.c. and an earnings yield of 7 p.c. At
this price they can be bought knowing
they contain some bonus element
ACCOUNTS SUMMARIES £'ooo
1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 1613 1726 1737 1991 1974
Less current liabilities 1010 1103 1078 1135 1088
Working capital .. .. 603 623 659 856 886
Investments 20 29 29 50 50
Fixed assets 818 1030 1030 1063 1066
Goodwill 30 30
Total capital 1441 1682 1718 1999 2032
Represented by:
Loan capital 166 166 166 166 166
Minority interest .... 8 9
Ordinary capital .. .. 499 499 499 499 499
Reserves 776 1017 1053 1326 1358
1441 1682 1718 1999 2032
Depreciation 8 9 10 17 16
Taxation .. 42 55 83 56 61
Net earnings 83 92 113 87 91
Dividend 50 65 65 65 65
Surplus 33 27 48 22 26
Earnings rate p.c. .. 16.6 18.3 22.7 17.2 18.3
Dividend rate p.c 10 13 13 13 13
Divid. yield p.c. (a) 5.8 4.3 3.9 4.8 5
High price (b) .. . 39/-(c) 32/- 40/- 26/9 30/6
Low price (b) .. . 32/6(c) 17/- 23/6 23/3 257-
fa) end of Sept, month accounts presented.
(b) previous calendar year.
(c) 20/- basis.
GOODWINS LTD
CONTROVERSIAL ISSUES
Oydney appliance dealer, Goodwins
Ltd, doubled net profit for the year
to June 30, 1962, but the final result was
still short of the 1960 record.
The company has only a four-year
public history by which investors and
market observers may judge its form.
It was listed in 1958 after a public issue
of 400,000 new ss. shares at par. The
years 1959 and 1960 brought boom busi-
ness in refrigerators, washing machines
and TV sets, etc, which Goodwins distri-
butes and services and also finances the
purchases.
But 1961-62 was not so easy in the
trade, and Goodwins had extra capital
from the one-for-three par issue to ser-
vice. The public was avoiding hire-pur-
chase commitments after the November
1960 credit restrictions.
The Commonwealth Government had
also decided to make companies hiring
out TV sets and radios responsible for
paying licences. Goodwins, therefore, re-
called some 1400 pay-as-you-view TV
sets, which had to be converted and sold.
The company was also at odds with
the Tax Department, which required that
tax be paid on h-p contracts when entered
into, whereas Goodwins had maintained
income was earned only as instalments
were received.
The group’s field of operations was in
Sydney and suburbs, Brisbane and Ade-
laide. The Adelaide subsidiary disap-
pointed in 1960-61, and retailing there
was discontinued in the year under re-
view. On the other hand, a new branch
was opened at Canberra in April, 1962,
just before TV transmission commenced.
Directors reported that turnover was
at a near record level, and all subsidiaries


Applications are invited for the following appointment
DIRECTOR
Site Australian tlisabrtlutu
(Hljratrr (Urust
The Trust was established in 1954 to promote
drama, opera, ballet and other arts of the theatre
in Australia. Its income, which comes from mem-
bership contributions, government and municipal
grants, endowments, donations and admission
charges, is devoted to the presentation of theatrical
seasons, to the encouragement of regional and local
theatre movements, to the training of young artists
and to the encouragement of creative work by
playwrights, composers, producers, etc. Its work
in drama and opera will be well known and the
forthcoming season by the Australian Ballet is a
further milestone in its progress. The Trust’s plans
for more regular seasons of opera, drama and
ballet throughout Australia could greatly extend
the scale of its activities in the near future.
The Director will be the main architect of these
plans and will be responsible to the Board of the
Trust for giving effect to policy, for all administra-
tion and business management and for co-ordinat-
ing artistic activities. This will include evaluating
and recommending activities to provide a balanced
as well as a more ambitious programme.
Remuneration by negotiation up to £5,000 p.a.
Location: Sydney. Extensive travel, possibly abroad.
Candidates must be well educated and have an
excellent record of adminstration. They should have
a deep appreciation and knowledge of the theatrical
arts which will command the respect of artists,
critics and the public. They should also be capable
of representing the Trust and of making known its
policies and plans to the community. The require-
ments for the position suggest that age should be
from about 35 to 50.
Please reply to Dr. E. Kelsall, Management Selection
Australia Pty. Ltd., 414 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Dr. Kelsall will he assisting professionally in the
selection and will strictly observe any confidential
conditions that candidates wish to impose.
■MSA. 123.
operated profitably. After all known bad
debts were written off, hire-purchase out-
standings increased 26 p.c. on the year
before.
Substantial provisions were made in
respect of interest, insurance and main-
enance charges yet to mature, the
irectors said.
The company is currently seeking
£250,000 in debentures for refinancing.
Goodwins uses the big hire-purchase
1 companies for bridging finance between
SSUbS.
In March 1960 Goodwins alleged that
TV set manufacturers were using restric-
tive trade practices in discriminating
against the company because it sold sets
on terms without interest. Goodwins
threatened to import Japanese sets.
The company’s trading practices have
been raised lately ir. the Federal and
NSW Parliaments, and in reply to charges
of misleading advertising claims the com-
pany issued a statement in denial. This
said that Goodwins especially catered
for terms customers. Its general policy
was to trade on an ii crest-free basis. If
a customer could afford a 10 p.c. cash
deposit, no interest was added to the
contract. If unable to pay this deposit,
a separate agreement for discount was
entered into with the company, under
which the customer in effect purchased
on interest-free terr s, provided he hon-
ored the h.p. agreement. The rather
complicated rebate scheme by which the
customer obtained this result was an in-
ducement to him to meet his obligations
to the company.
Goodwins Jaims that less th_ . 5 p.c.
of customers fail to qualify for the re-
bate, and that when interest is charged,
it is at the 10 p.c. rate permitted under
the State’s h.p. legislation.
The ss. shares now change hands
around 6s. to yield 10.4 p.c. Whatever
the merits or demerits of the company's
trading practices, there are other appli-
ance retailers in the field with more
appeal to the investor.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY, £’ooo
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY, £'ooo
J un e 30 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 1148 1822 1956 2288
less current and deferred
liabilities 873 1516 1563 1796
Working Capital 275 306 393 492
Fixed assets 102 187 199 173
Intangibles 26 41 35 18
Total capital 403 534 627 683
Represented by:
Ordinary capital 331 368 491 491
Reserves 72 166 136 192
403 534 627 683
Depreciation 6 12 17 23
Taxation 56 , 08 41 84
Net profit 11 9 l 6 ] 64 127
Dmdends 30 44 44 61
p“ rp ! us 89 117 20 66
Earnings p.c. 36.0 46.0 14.6 25 9
Dividend p.c. 10 12L 10 191
Dividend yield (a) 5.3 7 f 9 1 2
3 p r ice ,[u 10/6 10/9 7/6
Lo * pnce (b> 6/3 7/ 4/6
October, month accounts presented,
lb) I revious calendar year.
BIG SISTER FOODS LTD
FLOURISHING GROCERY BUSINESS
"Oopular food stock, Big Sister Foods
A Ltd, of Sydney, continues to be well
supported at around the 265. 6d. mark
since release of 1961-62 trading results.
Profits have exactly doubled in five
years, and the latest result of £80,212,
including income of £2,692 from in-
vestments in listed companies, was after
providing £51,000 for tax and £14,819
for depreciation. The 1960-61 profit was
£60,489 after £50,000 tax and £B,lBB
depreciation.
Reserves hidden in excess provisions
were brought to light in 1962 accounts
vhen £20,000 was transferred from
provision for market fluctuation of in-
vestments, and £40,000 from provision
for tax. Directors consider these provi-
sions were no longer required.
Shareholders have participated in the
growth of Big Sister since listing in 1950
by subscribing to a one-for-two par issue
in 1951, and then being recompensed by
a one-for-three bonus in 1958 and a one-
for-four bonus in April 1962.
The present price of the ss. shares
returns 2.8 p.c. in income and on earn-
ings the yield is 5.7 p.c.
ACCOUNT SUMMARIES: £'ooo
June 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 153 180 197 219 290
Less current liabilities 97 114 162 151 191
Working capital .. .. 56 66 35 68 99
Investments 11l 111 172 35 93
Fixed assets 215 226 224 268 285
Intangible assets .... - 130 130
Total capital .. .. 382 403 431 501 607
Represented by:
Ordinary capital .. .. 150 200 200 200 250
Reserves 232 203 231 301 357
382 403 431 501 607
Depreciation 7 7 7 8 15
Taxation 31 31 47 50 51
Net profit 40 46 58 60 80
Dividend 15 25 30 30 34
Surplus 25 21 28 30 46
Earning p.c 26.8 23.1 29.1 30.2 32.1
Dividend p.c 10 12| 15 15 15
Dividend yield (a) .. 4.7 3.9 3.9 3.3
High price (b) 10/6 15/ 16/- 21/ 27/-
Low price (b) 8/6 10/- 9/6 15/10J 16/3
(a) End of October, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year. Company known as
Lillis and Co. Ltd. until October 28, 1958.


Address to Members of
OLIMS CONSOLIDATED
LIMITED,
by Mr. J. Olims, Chairman at
the Annual General Meeting,
October 12,1962
Ladies and Gentlemen:
The accounts and Directors’ Report in your
hands indicate the success of the preliminary
consolidation of your Group members activ-
ities. The profit ratio increase is partly due
to increased sales from the Manufacturing
Divisions, but mainly reflects the savings in
administrative overhead.
I consider it important for Shareholders to
have a clear picture of their Companies’
activities and will therefore outline some of
the basic points of our future policy.
Your Group mainly manufactures Repro-
graphic and Office Equipment, and Supplies.
Exporting, Importing, Manufacturers’ re-
presentatives, Wholesale and Retail Companies
complete the structure of our self-contained
Organisation.
The Dividend policy will be a constant
per annum. Moreover, it is the Directors’
intention to make bonus issues of shares at
appropriate times when these issues would not
reduce the earning rate on the total capital
below a minimum of 20% after tax. The
present trend shows an earning rate of over
30% on issued capital, and your Directors’
planning is based on maintaining this pro-
gress. With additional companies joining the
Group, this rapid development will continue.
It would not be policy for me to detail all
our future plans, but you may rest assured
that our consolidation, coupled with the
wealth of experience accumulated by our
pioneer companies, puts us in a strong posi-
tion to promote the streamlining of office
procedures.
The combined experience and research skills
available in the fields in which each individual
company of the Group specialises, have pro-
duced a solid basis for the establishment of
an all-embracing service to meet administrat-
ive requirements throughout Australasia.
In the past, machines and supplies were,
in the main, imported. Now the advent of
our Group has created a local production
potential of great value.
The Bagley-Copystat Photocopiers, Winters
Paper Converting Machines, Trustee Collators,
Manumatic Computers, Photographic Devel-
opers, Chemical Transparentizers, Pentablet
Systems, Offset Platemaking Equipment and
Electronic Timers, are some of the equipment
and supplies already manufactured locally
by your Company and Associates and now
available for export.
Negotiations are in progress for the manu-
facture under licence of several outstanding
overseas products. Our new factory premises,
just completed, and others in the planning
stage, will be used to the fullest advantage.
The growth of your Company is continuing.
The latest addition to our Group is Office
Appliances Pty. Ltd. with showrooms and
workshops in Sydney and Melbourne.
The well balanced distribution arrangements
throughout Australasia and the combined
Group Research, Evaluation and Service
facilities safeguard the interests both of our
Principals and customers.
With Management and Government adminis-
trators welcoming new methods to streamline
paperwork, public and private institutions,
Insurance Companies, Banks. Industry and
Commerce generally, already our customers,
will fully appreciate and support our increased
activities.
With the firm conviction of your Company’s
assured success for the future and the result-
ing gains to the Shareholders, I conclude by
expressing my sincere appreciation of the
fine work performed by all executives and
members of the staff within the Olims Group.
KEITH HARRIS AND CO. LTD
BONUSES DESPITE "SQUEEZE"
HTwo bonuses in the first 12 months of
A the credit squeeze and the ability
to lift earning rate on the higher capital
is no mean achievement. Shareholders of
Keith Harris and Co. Ltd must be ex-
tremely satisfied with their directors and
to know that the company has the capi-
tal reserves and the earning capacity for
a third bonus whenever deemed desirable.
Keith Harris and Co. was formed in
1933 and converted to public status in
1948. To obtain Stock Exchange listing
a parcel of 5/- shares was placed with
the public at 8/- plus brokerage. Paid
up capital at this stage was £75,000
in 15,000 20/- 5 p.c. preference shares
and 240,000 5/- ordinaries.
For the next 10 years shareholders
were well catered for with share issues at
par 5 for 12 in 1950, 1 for 2 in
1955 and 1 for 3 in 1959.
The company is one of the largest sup-
pliers of pure and synthetic flavouring
essences, edible color powders and other
preparations for the food and drink in-
dustry. It also makes highly specialised
perfumery compounds, cake ornaments,
disinfectants and essential oils, and im-
ports allied products from overseas. It
markets through branches in all States
as well as conducting an export trade
with the Pacific Islands.
Expansion has been careful and re-
warding, both for the company and
shareholders. In 1960 it acquired Jusfrute
Ltd (an associated company with similar
activities) by a share issue at a substantial
premium. Most of this premium was re-
distributed to shareholders later in the
year in the form of a one-for-six bonus.
Similarly an 82,500 share issue to the
Swiss associate, Firmenich et Cie, pro-
vided the basis for another bonus
also one-for-six late in 1961.
Result of these was to lift paid-up
ordinary capital to £272,125. Preference
capital is unchanged at £15,000 but in
1957 the dividend rate was lifted to 7 per
cent.
The company is in a particularly
healthy state. Reserves at £336,177
show a substantial margin over paid-up
capital and include £60,495 in capital
reserves, sufficient for a one-for-five
bonus. Net tangible assets backing of the
5/- ordinary share is 11/4. Liquidity is
high and includes £ 104,360 in cash.
Despite the general economic diffi-
culties, 1961-62 was a record year. Turn-
over of both the parent company and
Jusfrute reached record levels, the
parent sales showing a rise of more than
£200,000. The greater part of this in-
crease was due to the continued improve-
ment of sales of factory products. Oper-
ating expenses were also tightly con-
trolled.
Profit for the year to June 30 came
out at £86,842 after deducting out-
side shareholders’ interests, compared
with £65,388 the previous year. Earn-
ing rate was 31.5 p.c. compared with
28.2 p.c. a year earlier.
However, the latest result was after
making special provisions totalling
£ 14,000 which might more correctly be
treated as appropriations. They include
£6OOO for fruit price fluctuations,
£5OOO for contingencies and £3OOO
for doubtful debts. Treating these as
appropriations, profit would then be
£100,842 equal to 36.7 p.c. on
capital after preference charges.
A special bonus payment of 21 p.c.
to mark the company’s 30th anniversary
has been added to the 15 p.c. dividend
paid for the past eight years and absorbs
with the 7 p.c. preference charge of
£lO5O, a total of £48,672. General
reserve benefits by £31,908, lifting it to
£241,908.
Directors are continuing the policy
of plant modernisation, installing exten-
sive new equipment at Jusfrute to further
increase production capacity.
As a measure of the company’s in-
vestment status, the shares are currently
selling around 27/6 a 450 p.c. pre-
mium to show a dividend yield on
the basic 15 p.c. div. of 2.7 p.c. and. an
earnings yield of 5.7 p.c. on declared
profit, or 6.7 p.c. if the special pro-
visions are considered as part of the
profit.
At this price the immediate return is
in the market leader class, but the shares
can be locked away for future benefits.
Cash issues do not appear likely at pres-
ent, but another bonus is a definite pros-
pect.
ACCOUNT SUMMARIES £'ooo
Consol
1958 1959 1960 1961^1962
Current assets 227 301 300 426 530
less current liabilities 72 103 104 113 196
Working capital 155 198 196 313 334
Fixed assets 133 162 189 270 287
Goodwill 5 5
Investments 54
Total capital 288 360 439 588 626
Represented by:
Minority interest 3 3
Pref. capital 15 15 15 15 15
Ordinary capital 127 170 182 233 272
Reserves 146 175 242 337 336
288 360 439 588 626
Depreciation 6 8 9 11 13
Taxation 24 31 39 42 66
Net earnings 40 51 59 65 87
Dividends 20 22 27 35 49
Surplus 20 29 32 30 38
Earning rate p.c. 30.8 36.2 33.6 28.2 31.5
Dividend rate p.c. 15 15 15 15 1 7\
Div. yield (a) 5.8 4.3 3.3 2.7 2.7
High price (b) 15/3 19/9 25/3 30/ 28/
Low price (b) 11/ 13/3 16/6 17/ 24/3
(a) end of Sept., month accounts presented.
(b) previous calendar year.


MARKETING
RADIO IS BEING
'KILLED''
rpHE advertising industry seems to be
wholeheartedly in tuie with the
chairman of the Broadcasting Control
Board (Mr. Osborne) on the deterioration
of radio programmes since the advent
of television. A run around advertising
agencies revealed to The Bulletin an
even more critical view than Mr. Osborne
advanced to the convention of the Aus-
tralian Federation of Commercial Broad-
casting Stations.
Two of the large agencies said their
clients had given radio away as a medium
of mass selling, and apart from the house-
wives’ sessions and one or two others,
radio programmes today consisted prin-
cipally of a conglomeration of “spots” on
behalf of ill-assorted groups of adver-
tisers and very little entertainment.
And that seems to be a pretty general
view.
Mr. Osborne told the convention
inter alia, that broadcasting today was
in too many cases basically music, news
and services, which was right enough as
a beginning but should not be accepted
as an end.
“It would be a pity”, he said, “to re-
duce broadcasting to the level of a
supplier of popular music, news and
services, displaying no art at all except
that of packing in still more advertise-
ments. . . ; This may be harsh criticism,
but it is not without cause.”
Mr. Osborne went on to say that the
board had in the past year received
-epeated reports of excessive advertising.
The overloading of programmes with ad-
vertisements might add to a station’s in-
come now, he added, but it was a short
sighted policy.
This criticism by so qualified a person
was long overdue. Some months ago The
Bulletin stressed the deterioration in
broadcasting standards and drew atten-
tion to the almost unlimited “spot” ad-
vertisements that disrupt programmes in
violation of the agreed limit allowed by
the board. This limit permits up to four
advertisements in a group occupying no
more than a minute and a half, yet they
sometimes run to more than a dozen.
Indeed, Mr. Osborne mentioned that the
board’s monitors only recently had
logged 25 in a group.
This sort of thing is just killing radio
as a medium of entertainment. It can
have no other effect than to reduce the
listening audience and so minimise the
effectiveness of the advertisements as
selling agents.
W.M.R.
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT
CORPORATION LTD.
Chairman's Address 1961-1962
It is with pleasure that
I address you again on
this, the Twelfth Annual
General Meeting, of the
Corporation.
During the past financial
year the Corporation has
made progress and has con-
tinued to expand.
FINANCIAL
It is gratifying to note
that the Corporation’s as-
sets have increased sub-
stantially over recent years,
and now stand at £12,714,-
661.
For the past seven years,
the Corporation has main-
tained a steady dividend
rate of 12! per cent per
annum. It is pleasing to
report that despite what
was generally considered to
be a very testing year,
your Directors are again in
a position to recommend a
final dividend of 6! per
cent continuing the pre-
vious 12! per cent per
annum rate.
The net profit for the
Group amounted to £171,-
582. This figure is arrived
at after making provision
for income tax of £54,277.
The lower tax provision
arises from the benefits of
the takeover of Notting-
ham Insurance Limited
with its tax-free losses and
dividends received from
Joint Venture Companies
on which no tax is payable.
The loss on the sale of
certain assets amounted to
£4,099, which, after taking
into account the balance
brought forward and cer-
tain minor adjustments
leaves a net figure of £168,-
531. From this, an interim
dividend at the rate of
12! per cent per annum
was paid in April, 1962,
amounting to £48,914 leav-
ing a net amount now
available for distribution of
£119,617.
Your directors have re-
commended a payment of
a final dividend at the rate
of 12! per cent per annum
which wall absorb £61,530
on the increased capital.
They have further re-
commended a transfer of
£50,000 to General Reserves,
leaving a balance to be
carried forward of £8,087.
In view' of the generally
considered difficult trading
conditions and the effects
of the credit squeeze, I
feel sure that you will agree
with me that the results
are most satisfactory.
BRANCHES
During the last six
months of the financial
year just ended, the Cor-
poration broadened its
base of activities by open-
ing fully operating bran-
ches in Brisbane and
Wagga. You will be pleas-
ed to learn that these
branches are already ob-
taining a satisfactory share
of the business available
in those cities.
With the opening of the
new branches, the Corpor-
ation now has six branches
covering Australia from
Brisbane round to Adelaide.
As a large percentage of
the Australian population
is situated within this area,
the main object will be to
build up these branches
rather than open further
offices in more distant
areas.
Having branches in the
four most populous States
considerably widens the
borrowing and lending area
of the Corporation.
SECURITY
The Corporation has at
all times endeavoured to
be as selective as possible
with regard to the pro-
perties on which it lends
money and the Hire Pur-
chase Agreements which it
accepts. This policy has
ensured the maximum
security for the Corpor-
ation’s shareholders, deben-
ture holders and note
holders.
It will be noted from the
Balance Sheet that total
outstandings amount to
£14,526,464 of which £12,-
223,243 is secured by Mort-
ages over real estate pro-
perty. These properties
have been inspected by our
own officers as well as being
valued by independent
valuers.
Amounts owing on Hire
Purchase Agreements and
Bills of Sale amount to
£2,303,221. These accounts
are in very good order and
all known bad jdebts have
been written on.
The achievement of a
high standard of securities
is not merely fortuitous.
Such standards can be
maintained only by very
close control.
REAL ESTATE LINK
During the year, the
Corporation acquired a
share interest in the G.
B. Eggers Pty. Limited
group of companies operat-
ing in New South Wales,
Queensland, Victoria and
South Australia.
The object of this share
purchase was to cement
the previous friendly busi-
ness relationship between
the two companies and to
provide a consistent and
dependable outlet for the
Corporation’s funds.
The joint activities of
the group and the Cor-
poration in selling real
estate has continued to
contribute satisfactory pro-
fits.
LIQUIDITY
The Corporation’s collec-
tions continue to increase
and afford a constant state
of liquidity. The increase
in collections reflects the
high quality of the Com-
pany’s outstandings, the
greater percentage of shor
term lending, and, of
course, the very substantia]
rise in outstanding achiev-
ed during the year.
At the end of June, 1&81,
outstandings totalled £9,-
636,200 and, as stated
herein, at June 30, 1962,
amounted to £14,526,464.
This represents an increase
of just over 50 per cent
in twelve months.
It should not be over-
looked that due to the
credit squeeze the Corpor-
ation considerably restrict-
ed its volume of business
and resumed full-scale
lending operations only at
the beginning of the finan-
cial year at present under
review. I think that the 50
per cent increase in such
circumstances fully illus-
trates the goodwill that
the Corporation has est-
ablished with the firms and
companies with which it
does business.
CONFIDENCE
The Corporation enjoys
a high degree of confidence
by the investing public and
has been meticulous in
carrying out its obligations
to debenture holders and
note holders.
Subscriptions to the Cor-
poration’s current Regist-
ered Redeemable Unsecur-
ed Note issue now exceed
£2,000,000.
The volume and quality
of new business available
to the Corporation is such
that it is able to use fully
and profitably all new
funds entrusted to it. In
fact, the only limit on the
Corporation’s present ex-
pansions is the amount of
money available from
debenture and note issues.
Your directors are fully
aware of the responsibility
they have to the investing
public and also its depend-
ence on the support given
to its debenture and note
issues.
MANAGEMENT
Your directors by care-
ful and conservative man-
agement of the Corpor-
ation’s affairs endeavour
to improve its status and.
maintain the confidence of
the community.
During the past two
financial years, the Cor-
poration has had to deal
with problems which have
been brought about by
circumstances outside its
control; nevertheless, it
has been able to cope suc-
cessfully with them.
This is in no small
measure due to the initiat-
ive, enthusiasm and skill
of the staff. I know you
would wish me to convey
your appreciation to them
for their loyalty and co-
operation.
J. DEAN
Chairman of Directors


COMPANY REPORT
EXTRACT FROM CHAIRMAN'S
ADDRESS
FOR THE 25th ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
REPCO LIMITED
THE 1961-62 YEAR AND THE CURRENT OUTLOOK
At the conclusion of my address last year I indicated that I felt there were some difficult months then ahead of us and at the Annual Meeting on October
3, 1961, 1 was able to advise shareholders that there were indications that the trading position in our industry was improving. I am pleased to be able to
report that this improvement was consistently apparent each month throughout the latter part of the year and finally resulted in the achievement of a satisfac-
tory profit for this, our Twenty-fifth year of operation.
The three major factors contributing to the result of the year, in addition to a particularly fine effort from all our staff and employees, were, firstly the
rapid recovering of the motor industry, evidenced by the restoration of original equipment contract schedules with our manufacturing divisions; secondly, the
continued strength of the after market in which our merchandising divisions play such an important part, and thirdly, the increased level of export sales which
contributed strongly to the maintenance of economic production levels through the difficult months at the close of 1960-61 and the opening of 1961-62.
The manufacturing divisions were greatly assisted during these months of recession by the excellent co-operation of the trade unions in dealing with our
employment problems, and it is with great pleasure that I advise you that the process of re-employment is continuing each month. We hope that the year ahead
will see a return to conditions that will enable your company, and secondary industry generally, to resume expansion of its activities and thus provide the
employment opportunities so urgently required to reduce the unhappily still very high level of unemployment in Australia, and to also provide a capacity for
employment in industry that will permit early resumption of full immigration quotas. These conditions will return when secondary industry and the investing public
which finances industry, become assured that Government policy is committed to the fostering and development of Australian industry without equivocation, and
to its protection during its initial development.
In this regard the actions of the Commonwealth Government, firstly in appointing a Special Adviser empowered with authority to recommend emergency
tariff protection, and secondly, in providing the Tariff Board with authority to recommend anticipatory tariffs for new industry, are most encouraging.
We had occasion during the year to make an emergency application with regard to engine bearings which, I am pleased to advise, was dealt with expedi-
tiously and efficiently, and from the Australian and your company's point of view, satisfactorily. The decision resulted in the immediate correction of a situation
which was preventing engine bearing manufacturers in this country from participating fully in volume production for Australian requirements.
Unfortunately, efforts to speed up the whole machinery of tariff applications, hearings and decisions, do not appear to have achieved the same measure of
success. For example, the public hearings in the tariff inquiry regarding machine tools were concluded in May, 1961, and to this date no decision has been
announced.
These frustrating delays create an atmosphere of uncertainty and hesitancy in industry, and plan for development and increased investment must obviously
be set aside in such conditions. Such delays and deferments must in the aggregation of many tariff inquiries constitute a real threat to the Government's earnest
endeavors to restore the Australian economy to full activity. We hope that further urgent efforts will be made to relieve this situation.
Present conditions in the automotive industry indicate that 1962-63 will be a year of further progress. Our manufacturing groups are steadily increasing
the tempo of production with resultant improvement in efficiencies and costs and our marketing organisations are pressing on with their programme of continu-
ously enlarging our markets. We have, we believe, good reason for confidence in the company's future.
SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
(1) ENGINE PARTS GROUP
From October onwards the rapid restoration of
original equipment contract schedules had a pro-
nounced effect on the progress of this group. You
will be interested to know that the companies in the
group now hold original equipment contracts for a
greater volume of business than at any time in their
history. The improvement in sales figures was
accelerated by increased export business and the
generally increased volume of trading, coupled with
higher operating efficiencies, resulted in a record
profit for the year.
Export business had a most favorable influence on
the year's results and it is gratifying to report that
the volume of bearings exported increased by more
than 100% on the previous year. The export figures
were aided by the supply of raw material and semi-
finished bearings to our associated company in New
Zealand.
Sales of Repco Gold Star engines from our re-
manufacturing plant at Repco Engine Services Pty.
Ltd. have continued to expand and this company has
had a particularly successful year. I am pleased to
report that production has doubled since occupying
the new premises at Brunswick. A color film of the
operations at this plant has been produced and will
be shown throughout Australia this year. It is in-
teresting to note that a request has been made for
the film to be shown to the Western Engine Re-
builders' Association Conference this year in Cali-
fornia, U.S.A
(2) BRAKE GROUP
The sales of P.B.R. products were seriously affected
by the prevailing conditions and were disappointing
for the first half of the year, but improved to a
satisfactory level in the second half. Increased export
sales provided a valuable compensating factor and
we are finding that our products are very well
received overseas. To further assist exports to
Europe our Sales Manager is currently overseas on a
three months' sales campaign, during which he will
be visiting our regular customers as well as seeking
new. This trip will coincide with the commercial and
car Motor Shows in London, where P.B.R. will have
its display on the Repco stand. Good progress has
been made in the development of our markets in
Canada and U.S.A.
Factory production and efficiency are excellent.
New plant installed during the past year has enabled
the company to meet most export demands and
adequately cater for the expanding home market.
A licence agreement has been signed between
American Chain & Cable Co Inc. and the Brake
Group. This will enable the company to provide a
long required service in the industrial field, and will
also give us access to business in marine cables. A
real improvement in our automotive cable product
will come from new Teflon and Nylon lined conduits,
for which American Chain & Cable Co. Inc. hold
patents.
(3) TRANSMISSION GROUP
Each of the three component firms again ex-
perienced a successful year. Being to a large degree
dependent upon original equipment, Repco Universal
Joints Company was adversely affected during the
first half of the year, but recovered rapidly during
the second half.
The present healthier trend in the automotive in-
dustry has enhanced the company's prospects for
1962-63.
Specialised Engineering Company has continued
with a vigorous policy of expansion of range of
products and many items are now included in its
catalogue to suit vehicles for the export market only
— no such vehicles being registered in Australia.
Export orders proved invaluable to this company
during the "credit squeeze" period, when local
demand decreased, and enabled the company to
maintain a h'gher level of development than local
trading conditions would have permitted.
Whilst turnover for original equipment has been
affected by the advent of automatic transmission as
optional equipment in most popular vehicles, total
sales have increased due to increased demand for
replacements from both the local and export markets.
The major part of the turnover of Hardy Spicer
(Aust.) Company is now allied to the agricultural and
industrial engineering industry and consequently . the
effect of the recession on this company was delayed
until the second half of the financial year. In spite
of the setback, however, it continued with normal
development and has been successful in obtaining
a number of new contracts during the past few
months.
The company finished the year in a most satisfactory
position and, with the expected improvement in the
general economy in 1962-63, will continue its progress.
(4) GARAGE EQUIPMENT AND PRECISION TOOL
GROUP
I am pleased to report that, in spite of the fact
that the capital nature of some of the products of
this group tend to make it vulnerable during a period
of credit restriction, all companies held their position
extremely well. This result was assisted to a pro-
nounced extent by a vigorous drive in overseas
markets which produced excellent results, compen-
sating fullv for the difficult conditions in the home
market.
As part of this export camoaign the products of
Warrent & Brown Pty. Ltd. and Repco Automotive
Equipment Co. Pty. Ltd. were disolayed at the Inter-
national Automotive Service Industry Show in
Chicago, U.S.A., and at the Pacific Automotive Parts
Show in Portland, Oregon, U.S.A. At both shows
the companies' products were inspected by and
demonstrated to people in the automotive industry
from all States of U.S.A., and from Canada, Mexico
and some of the South American nations.
(5) MERCHANDISING AND AUTOMOTIVE
ENGINEERING GROUP
The Southern Group of companies maintained ex-1
cellent progress throughout the year, and group
results were again a record.
Replacement Parts Pty. Ltd., Victoria, continued to
show a satisfactory increase in sales, and 1961-62
proved a very successful year. In August, 1961, a
new branch commenced at Footscray, providing full
warehouse and workshop services. This is the 22nd
branch of the Victorian establishment.
Replacement Parts (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., Tasmania, has
operated very efficiently over the past year. Trading
conditions in the early part of the year, particularly
in the north-west area, were more difficult than in
the previous year. Conditions improved from January
onwards, contributing to a final profit result for the
full year which was most satisfactory and consider-
ably in advance of any previous year.
The Northern Group: Replacement Parts (N’.S.W.
Div.) Pty. Ltd., is consolidating its position in New
South Wales and results for the year showed a satis-
factory advance on the previous year.
As from July 1, 1962, all branches of Motor Traders
Pty. Ltd., other than Newcastle, have been trans-
ferred to Replacement Parts (N.S.W. Div.) Pty. Ltd.,
in the interests of administrative economy and overall
efficiency. This now gives the company 18 branches
in strategic positions throughout the State, providing
an unrivalled service to the motor trade.
We deferred establishment of new branches during
1961-62 to enable the company to have a period in
which to improve its physical facilities and to provide
the administrative staff with time to settle down to
efficient operating. The company is now ready to
move ahead and the following new projects will be
initiated this year: A new branch will be operating
in Liverpool by November, 1962. A new branch build-
ing will shortly be commenced on the company's
excellent site in Canberra. It will be completed to-
wards the end of 1962 and our Canberra branch will
then transfer from its existing inadequate premises
and will be able to offer much improved warehouse
and automotive engineering services, to the trade.
Modern branch premises with complete warehouse
and automotive engineering services will be built in
Wollongong on the company's site, and the existing
branch, which has warehouse facilities only, will
transfer to the new building.
Plans are also in hand for the establishment of
a branch at Parramatta in premises to be built on
the excellent i reehold site owned by the company
in this important centre.
The consolidated results of Motor Supplies Pty. Ltd.
and Motor Supplies (Valley) Pty. Ltd., Brisbane, for
the year showed improvement on 1960-61. It has
been a year of development and consolidation for
Motor Supplies Pty. Ltd.
The company has nine branches, well situated in
Queensland. All carry a most comprehensive range
of automotive spare parts and modern machine shops
are now included in most of these branches.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT, 1959
IN DIVORCE
TO: KEVIN ROY WHITBY.—TAKE NOTICE
that DOROTHY JEAN FRANCES WHITBY has
filed a Petition for divorce No. 3103 of 1962 on
the ground of desertion cruelty and separation.
If you wish to defend you may enter an
Answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint Build-
ing, Macquarie Street, Sydney on or before
the 24th November 1962 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from C. P.
DIGNAN, Solicitor, 160 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: ROBERT NEVILLE FARNSWORTH of 40
Corona Street, Hamilton. TAKE NOTICE
that NANCY CECILY FARNSWORTH has
filed a petition for divorce No. 2154 of 1962
on the grounds of desertion and separation.
If you wish to defend this petition you must
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney on or
before 24th November 1962 and obtain a copy
of the petition and notice of petition with-
out charge from T. G. D. Marshall, Landers
& Co., Solicitors of 251-253 George Street,
Sydney or H. V. Harris, Wheeler & Williams
of 43 Bolton Street, Newcastle. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
A DIVORCE PETITION HAS BEEN FILED
AGAINST THE UNDERMENTIONED
WALTER GRUNER otherwise GRUNER-
WALTER (formerly ROWLAND) late of 8
Spencer Avenue Yarnton, Nr. Woodstock
Oxfordshire, England; and 33 The Havmarket
London W. 1.; who may apply to the* Divorce
Registry, Somerset House. London W.C.2 for a
copy of the petition. If within 78 days he
has not communicated with the Registry, The
Court may hear the case in his absence.—
B. LONG, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO. HENSON GERALD EARL formerly o(
de - TAKE NOTICE that FLORENCE
DOREEN EARL has filed a Petition for divorce
number 1463 of 1962 on the grounds of deser-
tion AND TAKE NOTICE that if you wish
to defend you may file an answer in the
Divorce Registry. Mint Building. Macquarie
ik e o ydney on or before the 23rd Novem-
oer, 1962. a copy of the Petition may be
opta.ned without charge from Messrs. Petei
G Kearney & Co., Solicitors, 254 George
Street, Sydney. c. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Positions Vacant
ALL SOULS' SCHOOL
CHARTERS TOWERS
Wanted Master to teach Physics and Mathe-
matics to Senior standard, commencing January,
1963, resident or non-resident, award salary.
For particulars apply Headmaster.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: EDNA MARY ROONEY, late of Balmain,
Sydney TAKE NOTICE that THOMAS
PATRICK ROONEY has filed a petition for
divorce No. 3027 of 1962 on the grounds of
desertion and separation. If you intend to
defend you may file an answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Building,
Macquarie Street, Sydney, by the 27th day
of November, 1962, and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from Messrs. B.
Burns & Co., Solicitor, 147 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney in the State of New South Wales. —
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: THOMAS CLIFFORD WILLIAMS late of
Pagewood—TAKE NOTICE that HELEN JUNE
WILLIAMS has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2032 of 1962 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for two years
and upwards. If you wish to defend you may
enter an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Mint Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney by
the 23rd day of November 1962 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
GEOFFREY SEE GILLIS & CO., Solicitors, 28
Martin Place, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: JOHN HARRY BOOME late of Kogarah
—TAKE NOTICE that MAVIS MARY CASH-
MORE BOOME has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1767 of 1962 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for two years
and upwards. If you wish to defend you may
enter an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Mint Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney by
the 23rd day of November 1962 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge from
GEOFFREY SEE GILLIS & CO., Solicitors,
28 Martin Place, Sydney. G. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
Positions Vacant
College Street, SYDNEY
Sydney Grammar School
Assistant Science Master A graduate with
an interest in biology is preferred, but other
specialities will be considered.
Laboratory Assistant. A fully qualified
man is required who has also specialised in
electronics. The successful applicant will be
expected to construct and maintain all kinds
of apparatus for use in teaching and research.
The facilities available for next year will
include 12 lecture-room laboratories and pro-
vision for research for staff and 60 boys.
Salaries will be commensurate with quali-
fications and experience on a scale adjusted
to that of teachers in public high schools.
Masters are required to participate in the
State Superannuation Scheme. Applications,
with references, should be addressed in
writing to the Headmaster. Sydney Grammar
School. College Street. Sydney.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: RONALD HENRY DAVISON late of
Cronulla—TAKE NOTICE that JEAN MARY
DAVISON has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1859 of 1962 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for two years
and upwards. If you wish to defend you may
enter an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Mint Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney by
the 23rd day of November 1962 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
GEOFFREY SEE GILLIS & CO., Solicitors, 28
Martin Place, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS,.
Registrar.
TO: ROBERT JOHN FAGAN formerly of Perth
in the State of Western Australia address now
unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife DESLEY
FAGAN has presented a petition to the Sup-
reme Court of Western Australia for divorce
for a decree of dissolution of marriage against
you on the ground of your desertion.
If you desire to defend the petition or
institute proceedings against the Petitioner
you must file an Answer in the Central Office
of the Supreme Court of Western Australia
at Perth within TWENTY-EIGHT days from
the date of this publication. In default of
your so doing the cause may proceed and the
Court will pronounce Judgement and make
orders against you in your absence.
DATED this 4th day of October 1962 G.
J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
KEALL, McCALL & BRINSDEN of Ist Floor,
29 Barrack Street, Perth, Solicitors for the
Petitioner.
Motor Traders (Qld.) Pty. Ltd. recorded a much
improved result in the year.
The industrial engineering group of companies
passed through a difficult year, particularly in the
companies associated with the manufacture and sale
of precision machine tools
(6) INDUSTRIAL SERVICE AND MACHINE TOOL
GROUP
There is an urgent and imperative need to protect
this vital industry in which our company plays an
important part Stimulation of the industry by a just
measure of protection will not only play its part in
providing employment for our people but will assist
in attracting to this country rhe skilled designers and
craftsmen so greatly needed. With assistance in its
development the industry can, by the reduction of
imports, make a substantial contribution to Australia's
balance of payments problem, which in the future
will inevitably again become acute.
(7) ENGINEERING AND RESEARCH
During the year we completed a further stage of
development at our research centre at Dandenong with
the establishment of a laboratory block, in which
modern facilities have been provided for electronic
and chemical, physical and heat treatment research.
The concept of a central research section, operating
independently of the day-to-day factory problems, is
proving to be the right approach 1o this important
phase of our operations.
Our apprentice training centre has continued to
more than justify our high expectations and in
January this year a second school of 40 lads com-
menced a 12-month training course at the centre.
We in Australia, in common with all industrial
countries, suffer from a shortage of skilled crafts-
men and I am convinced that our investment in
training will be richly rewarded in the near future.
EXPORT
Our export group, comprising:
Repco Export Company Pty. Ltd.
Replacement Parts (Australia) Limited, London.
Repco (N.Z.) Ltd., Wellington, New Zealand; and
Replacement Parts of Australia (V.C.) Ltd., Van-
couver, British Columbia.
have had a busy and effective year. Th<-; r efforts to
increase our export trade have been strongly supported
by the sales organisations of each of our manu-
facturing groups.
The costs involved in seeking markets overseas are
heavy and we acknowledge the material assistance
afforded by the Commonwealth Government's export
incentive measures, without which we would have
been compelled to restrict our efforts. We also grate-
fully acknowledge much valuable help and informa-
tion received from officers of the Department of Trade'
at home and abroad, which has assisted us greally in
our approach to new markets.
CONSOLIDATED ACOUNTS
Profit and Loss
The consolidated net profit for 1961-62, after taxa»
tion, was £1,430,042. This profit was earned after
providing £934,550 for income tax and £630,253 for
depreciation.
In 1960-61 the company earned consolidated net
profit of £1,182,101 after adjusted income tax £895,092
and after providing £595,049 for depreciation.
Balance Sheet
The consolidated Balance Sheet shows comparative
figures with last year.
The only movements of major significance are:
Inventories: Total inventories have been reduced by
£596,494. As I mentioned in my address last year,
reductions of this item had commenced at that time.
The process was continued for some months and
inventories have now reached the level of normal
desirable relationship to current sales. All stocks are
in first-class order and are conservatively valued.
Bank Overdraft: Overdraft at June 30, 1961, was
£916,595. At June 30, 1962, we had a net credit
balance' at the bank of £98,397. Reduction of in-
ventories and retention of depreciation and other
reserves have produced very satisfactory liquidity in
our finances.
Twenty-five years have elapsed since the foundation of Repco Limited by Mr. R. G. Russell. At the conclusion of its first year of operation in September 1938
about 480 shareholders held 300,000 £1 shares in Repco Ltd., which owned a group of four companies whose aggregate assets were
£354.600, and who employed approximately 350 employees. The company in its first year, after State and Federal taxation of 3/- in the £1 earned nett profit
of £42,558—15-2-% on paid capital of £275,000.
At the conclusion of its twenty-fifth year of operation, about 13,500 shareholders held 30,444,484 5/- shares in Repco Ltd., which owns a group of 30
companies, whose aggregate assets are £18,862,047; has partnership associations at home and aborcd in seven companies, and which employs in total approxima-
tely 6000 people. The company, in its twenty-fifth year, after taxation cf approximately 8/- in the £1, earned £1,430,042—18.8% on paid capital.
The growth and development of your company over those years, patterned as it is by similar development in other companies in other industries, provides
a record of Australian industrial development of which all Australians may be proud.
li is a tribute to the founder of the company, to the men who over the years planned its progress, and to the hundreds of men and women who loyally
served the company in the past, as do its men and women today.
I wish to thank my fellow Directors, our Executives, Staff and all Employees for their efforts throughout the year, which was successful largely because of
their loyal co-operation, and I wish to also thank our Partners overseas and our Distributors and Customers for their continued support
C. G. McGRATH, Chairman of Directors, Repco Limited.


Is A&te and Xw&d
& a Got c&osefa j» think
SPRING IS HERE AND XMAS IS A LOT CLOSER
THAN YOU THINK. SOON YOU'LL HAVE TO THINK
ABOUT PRESENTS FOR THE FAMILY, FOR
RELATIVES, FOR FRIENDS BOTH HERE AND
MAYBE, OVERSEAS. WHY NOT A
subscription to "The Bulletin"
AUSTRALIA'S OLDEST (ESTABLISHED 1880)
AND BIGGEST MAGAZINE OF NEWS AND
COMMENT? YOU CAN ORDER IT FROM YOUR
NEWSAGENT OR BY FILLING IN
THE FORM AT RIGHT
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
name
address
Please arrange for my BULLETIN to
be delivered to me each wee
MY NEWSAGENT
by direct SUBSCRIPTION
Please lick (v'> whichever melhod of
delivery you prefen _
For those desiring direct
SC Please find enclosed my cheque/money
order for m™** s “ bscr "’"° n “
RATES {Australia and devOiunsaH
£2 125.; U > ear -7 1 other countries
Dominions D
Remit w *«,»
Wellington N-Z \ 7™? (N . Z . currency),
currency 'i year £1 *>s._ V, „ 0
Peofele. a/m talking nurd and mad. datot BdfeUn/
The Bulletin” Crossword No. 715
ACROSS
I—Shut up like a moulting hawk when married to
me. (5)
4—This has them expressing themselves in canine
style when boarding. (9)
9—No, I like this pronoun offensive. (7)
11— Resting place to hold nothing against you in a
nomad. (7)
12— Paying attention to some of the Moonshee dingoes.
(7)
13— Bucket-kicking recommended to Edward controlled
the intake. (6)
15— Like this call in a famous
London restaurant district. (4)
16— Police are likely to be familiar
with such a vintage model,
perhaps? (2, 3,5)
19—Particularly makes Lily escape.
(10)
22—Border on brass instrument
backing. (4)
24—£51 is neither gas nor solid.
(6)
26—Tobacco what might be put
on top of the mouth. (7)
28— Salt tax on Melbourne’s big
racing event. (7)
29 Cupid and I take on wear.
(7)
30 — Lawn seed’s scattered by these
austere Piedmontese Chris-
tians. (9)
31— Insect associated with the
French instrument. (5)
DOWN
1— Then scream for sheets. (10)
2 Joint of a Caucasian vessel in
which Henry I’s son lost his
life. (5, 4)
3 Hand that is an agricultural
college in Victoria. (6)
5 The more abusive opponents
of Menzies might be inclined
to call Ben Jonson’s swagger-
ing boaster. (7)
6 —Lenin, Stalin, Khrushchev,
etc.? (8)
7 Habituate though unreversed
in anger. (5)
8— Departed. (4)
10—He saved marbles. (5)
14—Pet license, (anagram) (10)
17— Landing ban on royalty. (9)
18 — Current clerical worker is
correct. (8)
20— A guide to the P.O. lecture.
(7)
21 — Ulcer affected wealth. (5)
23—Sangfroid shown by the pal
injured by the disorderly mob.
(6)
25—Provide driving force with
some spirit light. (5)
27—Boat having business in the
south-west. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 714


The wise Australian
buys Australian
m
;
t
AUSTRALIAN
t MADE A
w
i


■
B&ip
fcs
f m
m
■- ' -
fypgg?'
. **? :
' ", :
1
■ - '. : :\'-
■ ,C. .->
&** X'
SELECTED \
HOTTLSNC, \
SSBa . j
m
CLARET
955
SYDNEY
«B*T fONTf r*
it* a«*«.oss.
#1 **»
. .
**«&£££ «r #&#**£*
awarra, M_e 5L!>
SELECTED V! N ‘ v
hock
ltd —-
""""coSffS'is r?t. &H& 3
Good Food Deserves
CAWARR
A noble wine for a noble roast! Cawarra Claret, the mos
popular red table wine in Australia, was selected exclusively
by the French Olympic Team on their visit to Melbourne
When you choose white wine order Cawarra Riesling
dry, delicate and delightful in every way.
Jmde
mans
AUSTRALIA'S GREATEST PRIZEWINNER!
