

The Bulletin
in Australia lor transmission by post as a newspaper.
ONE SHILLING
SEPTEMBERS 1962
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
■
low TO RUN A PARTY MACHINE


When A.M.P. was founded
in 1849, policemen
looked like this
- \ /ifOMjjj*
'f'j
£*£32
Qv.
AMP
EII3B
TO MEET MODERN NEEDS, police work for com-
munity protection has become more comprehensive. So
has A.M.P. protection for the individual. Make sure you
are protected against every contingency which may arise
in relation to life and property by calling your A.M.P.
man into consultation.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
Australia’s largest and oldest life assurance organisation
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY COVE. Offices in cities and towns throughout
Australia and New Zealand and in the United Kingdom
A.M.P. members enjoy the unquestioned security afforded by funds of £550,000,000
which the Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to members.


ARMS AND THE U.S.—l 26
Guns and Butter
A Note on Tania 4
The Sydney Fixers How To Run
a Party Machine 12
A Colonial in Edinburgh The
Writers’ Conference 17
End of The Foreign Legion From
Neil Mclnnes 18
A Congress Not Covered 20
Vietnam Men f the Viet Cong 24
Another Look at State Aid 28
Fairweather Friends Max Harris
on “Our Greatest Living Artist”
No Heroes Only Generals
Books Boost For The Dairy In-
dustry 39
Common Market Problems Sir
John Crawford 41
The Role of Capital Inflow 44
6
NATIONAL NOTEBOOK 4
TANNER 4
THIS AUSTRALIA ...... 6
80 YEARS AGO 8
OUT AND ABOUT 17
THE AWFUL PRESS 22
AROUND MELBOURNE 23
OVERSEAS 24
FORUM 28
LETTERS 30
REVIEWS 31
RED PAGE 35
MAN ON THE LAND 39
WILDCAT 41
FEIFFER 63
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY. LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George St., Sydney
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521: Phone 27-5971
Melbourne: Phone MF 3341. Brisbane: Phone
B 2691. Adelaide: Phone W 4121-3
Vol. 84
No. 4308
A SENSE OF URGENCY...
the years Territories Minister Paul Hasluck has brought to his
job energy, intelligence and capacity. Few could have been more
sympathetic to New Guinea’s problems or more devoted to the Territory’s
people and their welfare. Few, at the same time, have matched him in
a reluctance to recognise fully the winds of change and anticipate their
effects—a reluctance which in his case accompanies an insistent paterna-
lism. It is this, perhaps, which made his speech last Saturday to the
Papua and New Guinea Public Service Association in Port Moresby so
frankly disappointing.
It no doubt pleased Public Servants in New Guinea to hear that the
Public Service itself is at long last to be reorganised and the rights of the
expatriate and indigenous officer alike protected. By the same token it
was bitterly disappointing to those white settler interests which have un-
derstandably demanded guarantees for Territory investment and have
just as understandably been refused.
For the rest, besides stating that we would defend New Guinea and
apart from telling the UN that we would take our own time and course
in the Territory, Mr Hasluck did not add much to previous statements.
At a time when a few hundred miles from Port Moresby the Dutch are
engaged in a massive walk-out, when West Papuan political parties are
disbanding, when Indonesia is about to share a common border with us,
when the Foot Report recommendations are a matter of real urgency in
the minds of native leaders, senior administration officers and white
settlers, one might have expected some statement of immediate goals—
especially political ones. One might have looked for some sign that the
Government was regarding New Guinea development with a new
urgency.
If it is it was not apparent in the Minister s speech. The speech dealt
with Australian obligations to defend New Guinea and America s ANZUS
obligations to do the same. As if recognisably external aggression were
all that we have to worry about. The speech said that the Foot Report
was largely friendly to Australia’s administration and reflected Govern-
ment recommendations. Readers who read lengthy extracts of the Foot
Report in a recent issue of The Bulletin will know that it said a great
deal more than that and left many urgent and threatening questions
begging for answers.
In his speech Mr Hasluck once again stated that Australia would
stav in the Territory until the native peoples had made cleai theii choice
and that Australia would help them make that choice. Phis is hardly new.
While the speech may be reassuring to some, one cannot find in it except
in general and unspecified terms any indication of what measures the
Government contemplates taking in New Guinea to speed up education
and political development.
The tasks of any sort of development in New Guinea are quite as
enormous as the Minister says complicated, thankless and inti actable.
But the question still remains: what are we going to do about them and
how soon? For in particular the peoples of New Guinea must soon be
told what awaits them in terms of increased representation and powers
in the Legislative Council.


National
Winning The Space Race
lITJn or lose, Australia’s challenge in
" the America's Cup has put her on
the map in unprecedented fashion. Not
only sporting magazines, but all sorts
of publications have been featuring
photographs, special issues on both the
cup series and Australia.
“Fortune,” the sleek, fat pride of the
Luce publications empire, has already
come forth with two long article on
Australia; one on the financing of
Gretel’s effort and the second on Aus-
tralia’s booming economic development.
The highly influential “American Ban-
ker,” the only daily banking newspaper
in the country, printed an eight-page
supplement on Australia’s economic and
industrial life.
Even “Vogue,” which customarily de-
votes its pages to high fashion and high-
brow fiction, ran a spread of pictures
and text on Sydney as the home port
of Gretel. “Glamor” carried a similar
article.
“I don’t think there is a major publi-
cation in this country which has not
done something about Australia and the
cup,” John Malone, press officer of the
Australian News and Information bureau
in New York, said, “It has been the
biggest continuing single story about our
country ever.” The bureau is setting
up a branch office in Newport, in co-
operation with the Australian National
Travel Association, to handle inquiries
there during the cup races.
Harry Menzies, Australia’s Trade
Commissioner in New York, has hardly
been able to keep up with the inquiries
from American businessmen.
Capacity throngs attend daily show ? -
ings of a documentary film on the build-
ing of Gretel, presented in the lounge
of the Qantas office.
The National Broadcasting Company
has been working for nearly a year on
a documentary film of the cup races,
including footage of Gretel in Sydney
Harbor as well as in Newport. This
“spectacular” will be televised on Sep-
tember 17, two days after the races
begin.
The cup races will be followed daily
by millions of Americans who will never
know a spinnaker from a spittoon. But
they will know more about Australia and
the Australians than anyone would have
believed possible before the challenge.
On The Run
T>hotoc.raphers really earned their
-*■ money during King Phumiphon's
inspection of Port Kembla steelworks
last week. Pressmen covering the tour of
inspection and all other non-members of
the official party were confined to one
side of the floor of the huge slab and
strip mill, and later the tinning line, so
they would not impede the progress of
the royal party.
Newspaper, TV and movie camera-
men jostled their way past each other,
reporters and steelworks escorts who
crammed the narrow strip between the
Wall and the white line, across which
they could not step. They raced along
the three-quarters-of-a-mile length of the
slab mill to keep pace wuth the fast-mov-
ing King.
But the Thai photographers were even
more harassed. They moved ahead of
King Phumiphon, lined up their angles,
took their shots and as the King drew
level, quickly dropped their cameras to
their hips and bowed respectfully. They
then rushed ahead again, to repeat this
procedure time and time again.
Mr Downer's Wonderful Girl
T ately Sydney has been opening and
closing her heart, which English
journalist James Morris recently sug-
gested was as large as a shrivelled pea,
with a degree of monotony. One day
Sydney's heart was opened to Queen
Sirikit of Thailand. The next day, Queen
Sirikit w ; as banished to page five of the
daily newspapers (the sure gauge of how
wide Sydney’s heart is open) and Miss
Tania Verstak, of Manly, had taken the
Queen’s place in the city’s fickle affec-
tions. A few days later, Manly, and then
Melbourne, were opening their hearts to
Miss Verstak and Sydney had nothing
to look forward to but an early spring.
Miss Verstak was taken to Sydney’s
heart by becoming Miss University, Miss
Australia and Miss International and
because of the attractive modesty with
w'hich her honors sit upon her. At David
Jones’ she vetoed a proposal that she
should be photographed in the Austral-
ian-designed yellow suit which Queen
Sirikit had bought at the shop the day
before, although this would have given
newspaper photographers two for the
price of one. “After all,” demurred Miss
Verstak, “she is royalty.”
Miss Verstak is, it seems hardly neces-
sary to remark, a very pretty girl. She
has a total lack of humor which is ver\
refreshing, and which is, no doubt, very
reassuring for the organisers of the Miss
Australia quest. Miss Verstak, one would
think, can always be relied on to say the
right thing at the right time.
She feels now that she will never
finish her B.A. course (she has done
three subjects). Next year she will con-
centrate on brushing up her languages,
which include French, Russian and
Chinese, in preparation for the job she
hopes to do among intending migrants to
Australia. An influx of either Russian
or Chinese migrants is news to us and
may also be new's to Immigration Minis-
ter, Mr Downer, who in a congratulat-
ory cable called Miss Verstak a “won-
derful girl.”
So far, Miss Verstak does not have a
very clear idea of what her job will be
as “roving ambassador” for Australia, if
that job does eventuate. She does intend
to go overseas at the end of the year, and
what could be more representative of
Australian womanhood than that?
She said she w'ould like to do a job
among intending migrants. She feels
there is a need for young people in
immigration. “They have more enthu-
siasm,” she explained. She feels that in-
tending migrants should be told more
accurately about Australian conditions
(although, she said, she did not plan
to acquire expert knowledge on Austra-
lian housing, labor, etc. herself). She
believed intending migrants should be
told that they would have to work hard.
“After all,” she said, “if three-quarters
of the English migrants go home because
they have been misled they have been
We eiire the ©stecn's men


told they can get here for £ 10 and that
jobs are easy to get surely it would
be more economic for Australia if they
did not come at all?” But she said it so
charmingly that we are sure even Mr
Downer would not obje t to her criti-
cisms of his department.
The Aid Of The Party
Hardbitten politicians all over Austra-
lia would have swallowed convul-
sively at the social gathering that fol-
lowed the recent opening of the Queens-
land State Parliament. The event, duly
reported in the Sunday-Mail’s women’s
pages, took place at the home of At-
torney-General and now Liberal Party
Parliamentary Leader, Alan Munro. Mr
Munro, by the way, is practically a tee-
totaller and is a Methodist lay preacher.
Majority of the coalition Cabinet is also
teetotal or thereabouts. AccorCng to
Press reports, the main part of the even-
ing revolved around “performances”
given by representatives of the Country
Party backbenchers, Liberal backbench-
ers, and Cabinet. Lands Minister, Mr
Fletcher, obliged with some tunes on a
saw stroked by a violin bow. Conda-
mine’s Mr Sullivan C.P. brought the
house down with a demonstration of
sheep-shearing, using another backbench-
er for a sheep; while Liberal Party
backbenchers gave humorous recitals.
Three women judged the contest, and
do you know what? They were all so
good that they just couldn’t pick a
winner, and so all contestants received
prizes. Well, gentleman, I ask you . . .
the rumbling noises heard that night
came from various cenet mies around
town where gentlemen Forgar,
Smith, Ned Hanlon, Clarrie Fallon, Joe
Bukowski and Co. were rotating rest-
lessly in their graves.
Love-Hate
Tt warms our scholar’s heart to know
A at this moment in Honfleur, that
ancient town in the department of
Calvados, France, a French school-
teacher is embarking on the first stage of
his post-graduate studies with a thesis on
“Ambivalence and challenge in Early
Australia, as expressed by Brian Penton.”
The schoolteacher is Guy Montin,
who came to Australia in 1949 and lived
here for seven years. Montin, who was
born in the south of France, was for
several years a novice Trappist monk,
then joined the Air Force, and event-
ually visited Indo-China and New Cale-
donia. He came from New Caledonia to
Sydney where he worked in a variety
of jobs. He returned to France with
his wife and two children overland in
a converted three-wheel delivery-van.
Recently Montin wrote to John
Abernethy, of Angus and Robertson,
whom he had known here, asking for
material on Brian Penton. Montin read
some Australian literature while he was
here, but did not read “Landtakers”
until after he returned to France.
Penton, Montin wrote to Abernethy,
made clear something of the feeling that
Montin himself had towards Australia;
hating it one moment, loving it the next,
fiercely criticising it, yet stoutly defend-
ing it when other, newer arrivals, attack-
ed it.
“I’ll sincerely try to prove that Aust-
ralia was unique in its love-hate impact
on its settlers and Brian Penton nearly
unique in saying so,’’ Montin wrote in a
letter.
Abernethy sent Montin “The Inheri-
tors,” Penton’s pamphlets and photostat
copies from the Mitchell library of refer-
ences to Penton in Australian library
histories and critical works. If the thesis
comes off as Montin hopes, he will press
on towards a Doctorat d’Etat on “Aus-
tralian realism.”
Not Wanted
A reporter from the Hobart “Mercury”
reduced a Department cf Agricul-
ture official to near-collapse when he
enquired about the possibility of import-
ing five orphaned dingo puppies from
Western Australia. A reader, having seen
a picture of the puppies, had telephoned
the newspaper to offer to adopt them.
The official told the reporter that a
permit would have to be sought from
the Animals and Birds Protection Board,
which is very choosey about importa-
tion of new species into a State which
has escaped foxes, as one example of
exotic animals it is happy to do without.
The chances of the board’s granting the
permit, the official indicated, would be
approximately the equal of the possi-
bility of the quarantine authorities’ im-
porting smallpox.
Not A Twinkle
From a disgruntled televiewer:
Twinkle, twinkle, little Telstar,
How I wonder what you are,
Up above the world so high,
Beaming nonsense from the sky.
Tammer
And they are the Queen's men
And \ trust we shall remain Queen's
men with ail the other Queen's men
Adenauer, de Gaulle, de Quay, Gronchi,
Spaak . . .


THIS AUSTRALIA
TELEVISION
SANTAMARIA
MOVES NORTH
A Nice Question For Rome
B. A. SANTAMARIA
“Sunday Magazine”
1%/I'r B. A. Santamaria’s National Civic
Council turned on one of its
periodical surprises in Brisbane last Sun-
day morning (September 2) when it
began a weekly paid session on Channel
7 Television Station. The element of
surprise was contained in the fact that
the programme sponsored was “Sunday
Magazine”, the official weekly 15-minute
Catholic television programme in Mel-
bourne, in which Mr Santamaria gives a
regular talk on current (and other)
affairs.
The Catholic Church in the Arch-
diocese of Brisbane was not associated
with the presentation of the programme,
so that the situation was that an offi-
cial programme of the Catholic Church
in Melbourne was presented in Brisbane
by a lay organisation, which is in no way
connected with the Church there or any-
where else.
The Catholic set-up in television is
that each Archdiocese of Australia has
its own television and radio committee,
and each committee is responsible for
the production of local programmes.
The Brisbane Archdiocesan television
committee (of which the Coadjutor-
Archbishop, Archbishop O'Donnell, is
chairman, was not approached by the
National Civic Council concerning its
move to import into Brisbane a Catho-
lic programme of another Archdiocese.
The Brisbane committee had the first op-
portunity to discuss the NCC move on
Tuesday of this week, only after “Sun-
day Magazine” was seen last Sunday.
Several members, including Archbishop
O Donnell, who is anything but a sup-
porter of Mr Santamaria and the NCC,
were extremely hostile to the move.
Another factor is that last Saturday
morning parish priests in the Archdiocese
of Brisbane received a circular letter
from the local president of the NCC in-
forming them of the programme, paint-
ing out that its sponsorship was a cos ly
move that could be continued only so
long as funds were available for the pur-
pose (this w'as seen as an appeal to the
clergy for donations) and mentioning
that among subjects that Mr Santamaria
could be expected to deal with was the
Communist influence in the ALP.
Archbishop Duhig is known to have
little sympathy with the policies of Mr
Santamaria and the Goulburn School
closure received little support from Arch-
bishop Duhig, because he apparently saw
the hand of Santamaria in it. The last
issue of “The Catholic Leader” (Brisbane
Archdiocesan weekly), for example, of-
fered an editorial entitled “Handling
State Aid Is A Grave Challenge To The
Catholic Laity”, which concluded with
this piece of advice, seen by many to
refer to NCC Catholics in the South:
“Interested and active Catholic laity
must be prudent and intelligent in v hat-
ever they say or do about this question
—without of course becoming cowardly
or inactive. Laity in one place or belong-
ing to one organisation must remember
in justice to their fellow-Catholics else-
where that even good-intentioned actions
on their part could prove injurious in
the concrete situation to the State Aid
cause in other places.”
Another key point provoked by the
NCC sponsorship of the Melbourne
Catholic television programme in Bris-
bane is how this squares up with the
ruling of the Holy See in Rome on the
role of the, organisation led by Mr
Santamaria in Australia. The formula
conveyed from Rome, when the matter
was at issue a few years ago, was that
the organisation, previously called the
Catholic Social Movement, now known
as the National Civic Council, if it were
to pursue the lines it wished. was to he
an independent, non-official organisation
of laity, with no official links with the
Catholic Church. The question now be-
ing asked by anti-Santamaria Catholics
in Brisbane is how such an unofficial,
lay organisation can sponsor and pre-
sent an official television programme of
the Catholic Church.
Catholics in Queensland are also ask-
ing whether Mr Santamaria’s voice in
their State, if it persists, will introduce
into their State something akin to the
approach of Archbishop Mannix. Arch-
bishop Duhig, who observed his 91st
birthday in the Brisbane Mater Hospital
last Sunday, where he is recovering
from an operation, may have additional
reasons to remember September 2, 1962.
JAMES FENNELLY.
• NEXT WEEK Gretel, inside
story of the challenge by
David McNicoll.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AFTER THE BATTLE OF BUNBURY
The Liberal who gave up Communism?
VrEiTHER Federal nor State Labor can
take much consolation from the
Liberal victory in the Bunbury by-elec-
tion in W.A. In a seat which Labor
long hoped to win, its veteran candidate
was defeated by a Liberal newcomer
to politics who survived a claim that
he had once been a member of the
Communist Party and went on to gain
only 400 votes less than the pop.lar
Liberal, the late George Roberts, whose
death caused the by-election.
With Mr Roberts’ death making the
parties all square in the Legislative
Assembly, both major parties mounted
a massive campaign. The entire Liberal-
Country party ministry appeared in the
electorate during the campaign, and both
Labor and Liberal used up to 20 back-
benchers in door-knock campaigns,
A statement by the father of Liberal
candidate Maurice Williams that his
son had been a member of the Com-
munist Party during World War 11
looked like being a winner for Labor,
but backfired badly when Opposition
Deputy Leader Jack Tonkin, who was
running the campaign of Labor candi-
Charlie Webber, admitted that he
had been implicated in taking the sworn
statement from Williams’ father. In the
long run> an i ssue that Labor thought
vvas going to be a winner turned out to
be a loser.
The Government fought its campaign


on a Keep the Brand Government slogan
and, though it needed DLP preferences
to clinch victory, it gained enough prim-
ary votes to claim it had a vote of con-
fidence for its industrialisation pro-
gramme. The fact that Bunbury (popu-
lation 12,000) is the only town outside
the metropolitan area to benefit by
that programme might have helped.
Labor’s decision to fight for victory
on a personality basis also turned out to
be a flop. It built up Mr Webber (who
was not pre-selected by the rank and
file but selected under the new Cham-
berlain rules by the Party executive) as
the only Bunbury-born candidate, but
he got less votes than he did in a two-
way contest with George Roberts in
the March general elections.
The late Mr Roberts’ personal vote
prevents any discussion as to who might
have got the 279 votes compiled by
DLP candidate Gilbert Handcock, the
founder of the DLP in the West, if he
hadn't been in the field. Mr Williams
finished up 400-odd votes behind Mr
Roberts’ last figures, but whether these
were lost to the DLP or lost because
he was not Mr Roberts will not be
known until the next election. The only
thing that can be said about the DLP
vote is that it was small considering the
decision of the Bunbury Parents’ and
Friends’ Association a week before the
election to advise its members to vote
for Mr Handcock because he favored
State Aid to church schools. If the
Catholic parents of Bunbury want State
Aid, it did not make many of them vote
for the DLP.
Now that Bunbury has restored the
Government’s working majority, Labor
must now reconcile itself to a full term
in opposition. The interesting question
will be whether the ALP will hold a
post-mortem into its campaign methods
in Bunbury and, if it does, whether Mr
Tonkin can survive the criticism of his
colleagues over his handling of the cam-
paign.
LABOR PARTY
WHEN YES-MEN SPLIT
“The Quiet Life is The Good Life"
W. R. COLBOURNE
“I suggest”
The Labor Party’s youth bodies, like
"*■ similar bodies in other political par-
ties, are mostly young, excitable yes-men
only too anxious to fall in line with
Party policy and the Party officers’
slightest decision. The reason: the
smooth way generally leads to office
within the party.
But a remarkable incident happened in
Sydney recently when a majority of the
ALP Youth Council voted for a change
in Party policy and virtually defied the
wishes of the State Secretary, Mr W. R.
Colbourne, and the Assistant Secretary,
Mr A. Mulvihill.
A long motion was passed in July at
the Youth Council’s meeting recommend-
ing a change in Party policy on the ques-
tion of State Aid by 20 votes to five.
Some publicity was given to this in the
Sydney Press and as a result there was
talk among some of the left-wing mem-
bers of the ALP State Executive of dis-
ciplining the Youth Council “rebels”.
Eventually 16 members of the left-wing
of the Youth Council gave notice of re-
scinding the motion and it came up for
discussion last week.
Before the meeting, however, the
members of the Youth Council Executive
met ALP officers Colbourne and Mulvi-
hill and they were gently asked to sup-
port the rescission along the lines of “the
quiet life is the good life”. At a meet-
ing over dinner the Executive officers
decided by five votes to two that they
would support the rescission—thus fol-
lowing the Party officers’ suggestion.
A split in the right-wing vote aided
the left’s attempt to remove the support
for State Aid. A left-wing member, Mr
R. Gould, moved the motion with right-
winger, Mr J. Ducker, the Organiser
for the Sydney Trades and Labor Coun-
cil seconding it. The rescission attempt
was fought by right-wing Mr J. Forres-
ter, organiser for the Federated Clerks’
Union and the Youth Council’s presi-
dent. The rescission attempt was de-
feated by 38 votes to 37 much to the
disappointment of the left-wing, who for
the first time in many years nearly suc-
ceeded in getting a majority. Even if
they did not win they claim a moral vic-
tory in that they most successfully split
two influential right-wingers, Mr For-
rester and Mr Ducker. The closeness of
the vote moreover has boosted their
morale as nothing else has for years.
Even in Victoria the State Aid issue
nearly embarrassed the Victorian Cen-
tral Executive when the Young Labor
Association, by the chairman’s casting
vote (28-28), decided to support existing
policy. It is interesting to speculate
that while nothing will happen to the
“rebels” in NSW, the Victorian Execu-
tive may consider disciplining their
young “rebels”.
MUGGA.
CENSORSHIP
THE EIGHTH YEAR
The Glossies
History was made again in Queensland
last week. The Queensland Litera-
ture Board of Review issued its Eighth
Annual Report which announced that
for the second time in its existence
it had not banned a single book or maga-
zine over the preceding year. This is
not to say it has not been active: it
managed, for example, to lobby the Cus-
toms Department into banning certain
American novelettes which the Queens-
land Board could have banned but pre-
ferred not to do so in order to avoid the
silly Victorian situation where the Vice-
Squad seizes books that Customs has ap-
proved. “In several instances”, the
Eighth Report states, “by co-operative
liaison with the Customs Department
publications were placed by that Depart-
ment on the prohibited list.”
The Board also sent for the publishers
of an Australian nationally circulated
magazine and “after a very frank ex-
change of opinions” decided that it
would not prohibit the magazine: the
publisher apparently decided to "recon-
struct” it.
But beyond this it has had a light
year, far too light for many of its less
reasonable supporters. The Board has
been defeated in too many court cases
to be willing these days to throw its
weight around too recklessly and it now
limits itself to obscene publications
meant for normal teen-agers, not merely
suggestive ones that might upset the ab-
normal. Hence the point made in this
year’s report: “The period under review
has been characterised by an extra-
ordinary number of very vocal protests
made at various levels by various influ-
ential sections of the community. Re-
ligious leaders, parliamentarians, social
thinkers and welfare workers have made
very strongly worded and in some cases
well reasoned protests about the ‘flood’
of these publications (glossy novelettes)
and the necessity for doing something
about it. This Board has come into its
share of criticism for not dealing with
this flood by the magic of countless pro-
hibition orders!”


NORTHERN TERRITORY
THE GREAT REMONSTRANCE
The last shot in the locker
TTriE Remonstrance which the Northern
-*■ Territory Legislative Council is put-
ting before both Houses of Parliament
seems just about the last shot in the
locker, as far as elected members are
concerned. For years they have ham-
mered away at the same theme-need
for constitutional reform; the lagging
pace of development; and the Council’s
lack of any real power.
At thei, last meeting in Darwin there
were signs that Canberra’s intransi-
gence might be wearing them down at
last. Some seemed to be just about
“talked out.” Even the Elsey firebrand,
Mr “Tiger” Brennan, was comparatively
subdued. And the Member for Port
Darwin (Mr Dick Ward), most gifted
and eloquent speaker in the House, said
angrily. As far as I m concerned this
Legislative Council can go to blazes un-
less . the Government is going to take
notice o it.
The idea is the brainchild of Mr Neal
Hargrave, an acid-tongued lawyer who is
Member for Alice Springs. Voting fav-
ored Hargrave’s motion by 11 to six, the
three nominated non-official members
siding with the elected men against the
Public Service bloc.
The decision without precedent in
this country makes history of a sort.
Most famous petition of the kind was the
“Grand Remonstrance” presented to King
Charles the First by the Long Parliament
in 1641. This listed the King’s misde-
meanours and recited the grievances of
the Commons stating reforms which had
already been approved by the Parliament
and telling of the obstructions to them,
It concluded by demanding remedial
measures. King Charles threw out the
Grand Re " lonstrance and tried t 0 arresl
lts five alltilors -
Mr Hargrave told the Legislative
Council that elected members regarded
the Remostrance as the last move open
to them in the struggle for constitutional
reform. All other avenues had failed.
The document lists a series of grievances
against the Commonwealth Government:
9 The political rights of Territorians
were in f e rior to those of other Aus-
tralians. Before Federation and for
some years later the people of the
Territory had full voting rights. In
1911, when the Commonwealth took
over from South Australia, these were
lost and it took till 1947 even to get
as far as having the Legislative
Council.
9 The Xerritory had no representation
in the Senate and only partial (non-
voting) representation in the House of
Representatives. Most Legislative
Councillors were appointed, not
elected. -
0 The Commonwealth Government had
failed to develop the Territory, which
was “in a state of economic torpor.”
Promises to complete the north-south
railway were dishonored and there
was nothing in the area comparable
with the Ord River and Snowy
Mountains schemes.
• The Legislative Council had no voice
in allocating and spendirg money in
the Territory. The Government had
hedged since 1959 on the question of
giving the council some financial
control and had flatly rejected the
proposal last April
• On two occasions the will of the
Territory people and the Legislative
Council had been thwarted by the
withholding of assent to a Bill which
would legalise SP betting in isolated
areas.
• The Government’s failure to stimulate
a high rate of population increase
laid Australia open to accusations that
it could not justify its occupancy of
the Northern Territory.
• The Council has not been treated
with the respect and dignity it de-
served. The true government of the
Territory was a bureaucracy.
• Australian defence had been endan-
gered by the Government's failure to
develop what was a logical entry point
for any aggressor. A thousand miles
of Australian coastline in the Terri-
tory was defended by a small Naval
patrol vessel and an Air Force of
unidentified size.
Originally the Remonstrance also had
contained an attack on the Government’s
“futile if altruistic attempts to advance
the aborigines.” This said: “After 12
years of cradle-to-the-grave intimate
guidance of aborigines in the Territory,
which has cost the taxpayers thousands
of pounds, not one aboriginal has ad-
vanced to higher education; and after
12 years the Welfare Branch did not
consider in March this year that more
than 80 of its charges, including children,
were fit for citizenship.” During the
debate members agreed to drop all refe-
rence to native policy on the ground that
criticism, “however true.” might alienate
public opinion in the south.
There is no doubt that with the
Remonstrance some sort of crossroads
has been reached in the Territory’s long
and wordy struggle for constitutional
reform. If it is pigeonholed or rejected
out of hand there is unlikely to be any
mass walkout from the Council—a much
milder body now than it was several years
ago. Nor is there any danger whatever of
civil disturbances in an area where most
Sydney, city of back-stabbers
September 9, 1882
1 f half the stories which are at the
-M- present time bandied from mouth
to ear throughout the city have even a
foundation in truth, our public affairs
are a mere cesspit, and the chief-actors
in them simply political guttersnipes.
One cannot close one’s ears to what is
circumstantially narrated (in confid-
ence) by persons themselves in a
position to hear much—persons of
character and integrity—but who have
themselves had the facts communi-
cated only in strict confidence. This
man holds a document which is a
forgery, but the power its possession
conferred has been employed to his
own advantage at the expense—
perhaps—of the colony. He tells the
story and exhibits the document —in
strict confidence. Another has been
applied to for money, under circum-
stances which made the application a
proffer of corrupt favor. He avails of
the favor, and lends the money. Then
he narrates the event, under seal of
confidence. A third procures an ap-
pointment for a relative, and pays for
the complaisance—cash. He tells the
story, in strict confidence. With respect
to billets, to contracts, to land-grabs,
to every trick and turn by which
money can be made—and divided—or
advantages, social or official, gained a
whole budget of narratives, all more
or less circumstantial, and all having
corruption, hypocrisy, false pretences
for their text, are current throughout
the city.


REID MURRAY
ACCEPTANCE LIMITED *
4 °/o
P.A.
at call
REID MURRAY
Registered First Mortgage Debenture Stock*
PAID-UP CAPITAL £7,000,000
Applications accepted only on forms attached to the
Prospectus. Available from:
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 1924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William St., Adelaide 408 Collins St., Melb.
Members of Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.
Dein mi ido av
■m. Hi m It# Iw Bm W
GUARANTEED
by Reid Murray Holdings Ltd.
RM A. 26 V. 40
people are on the Government payroll
anyway.
The real loss could be in the resigna-
tion of some of the most talented elected
members. The effect would not be only
political. Its voice of protest stilled or
muted, the Territory would be in danger
of sinking even further into the “econo-
mic torpor” which grips it today.
KEITH WILLEY
UNIONS
KILLING SEASON
The Houlihan Episode
rr.HE end of the winter is the peak kill-
-*■ ing season in the meat industry in
Queensland and at this time each year
the company and the unions gird their
loins and sharpen their butchers’ knives
for the inevitable battles. The meat em-
ployers, traditionally tough men, are
anxious to get their kill away so as not
to miss out on their export markets, and
the union, understandably, capitalises on
this to gain higher wages.
Last Friday, the Cairns Meat Export
Company agreed before Commonwealth
Conciliation Commissioner G. A. Find-
lay to the re-employment of extreme-
left-wing member and president of the
Queerah sub-branch of the Australian
Meat Industry Employees’ Union, Mr
F. Houlihan This was the culmination
of a series of strikes and court proceed-
ings which began on July 6 this year.
On that date 41 members of the
AMIEU were dismissed after they went
on strike. Another 320 men then
struck over the dismissals and de-
fied a subsequent order by Commissioner
Austin directing them to return to work.
They eventually went back to work on
July 19 on the order cf Commissioner
Findlay. The company in re-employing
the 320 men did not include sub-branch
president Mr Houlihan. On August 20,
Commissioner Findlay asked the com-
pany to give him their reasons.
The company obviously considered
Houlihan the cause of the original
trouble. But Commissioner Findlay (who
was Eddie Ward’s car-driver back in
1947) had said in Cairns on July 20 that
the company should “consider” re-em-
ploying Houlihan.
Much of the argument before the
Commissioner last week wa: over
whether the Commissioner’s use of the
word “consider” was a direction to re-
employ or just to “consider”. The Com-
missionre maintained it was a direction.
The company then gave Houlihan a
job again to the anger of those who
saw this as caving in on the right to hire
and fire.
In any case Commissioner Findlay has
probably not heard the last of Mr
Houlihan.


VICTORIA
THE BETTING BUSINESS
Despite the betting shops
SP bookies still thrive
SIR CHESTER MANIFOLD
“The Slate always wins.”
Tudging by the flock of Victorian
" bettors backing their fancies with
SP bookmakers in NSW every weekend,
the betting shops of the Victorian Totali-
sator Agency Board don’t provide the
full answer to the southern State’s off-
course betting needs.
This interstate traffic derives largely
from the desire of people in the border
areas to back horses on NSW tracks,
for which the TAB doesn't cater.
Clearly, too, the recent inquiry into the
covert co-operation of PMG clerks
in Victoria with local SP bookies and
tipsters shows that the TAB has yet
to win over large numbers of the off-
course betting fraternity in that State.
Betting habits die hard so it isn’t very
surprising that with the TAB still in
comparative infancy and with interstate
betting, if anything, on the increase,
SP bookies still thrive in Victoria,
though they could be a dying race in a
State where their political nuisance value
has never reached the heights it has in
NSW. Even with its limited number
of 82 shops established so far, the TAB
has gone far in eroding their living. More
and more inveterate off-course bettors
are going over to the TAB whose direc-
tor, Mr L. E. Smith, told The Bulletin
that 80 per cent, of its business is done
by former clients of SP bookies.
Further, he said that in money terms
only about 12 per cent, of the total in-
vestments made on TAB were through
telephone credit facilities and the pro-
portion was tending to decline as more
betting centres were opened. This may
seem surprising in view of the personal-
ised services given to telephone, credit
clients, such as asking them for an
alternative selection in the event of a
scratching of the first leg of a double.
Mr Smith said that many clients had
given up their telephone accounts when
a new TAB centre had been opened in
their neighborhood.
So it is obvious that many former bet-
tors with SP bookmakers are coming
out into the open and going direct to
betting centres to place their business.
At present, there are the 82 TAB betting
centres already mentioned and a further
21 agencies and branches are expected
to be operating before the end of August.
Before next July, Mr Smith plans to
have established 130 centres in all and
ultimately when the network is complete
there will be 200 scattered over the
length and breadth of the State. Evidence
of the broadening of interest in the
TAB is seen in the growth of business
at particular offices. Mr Smith thinks
that this is a sign that more people are
giving up their SP bookmakers and
putting their money on the tote. In fact,
the figures for investments on the off-
course tote in the first year of operations
are quite remarkable.
In the first full year of operations
to the end of July £13.8 million was
invested with TAB and all but 12 per
cent, of this was paid out in dividends.
The amount is expected to double in
the current racing year as more centres
are established.
It will be some time before Victorian
charities get their full benefit from
TAB. At present the 12 per cent, de-
ducted from dividends is split two ways
Two-thirds of it goes towards TAB’S
operating expenses and for distribution to
race and trotting clubs. The other third
goes to the Government. At present of
this third, one quarter goes to the four
Melbourne metropolitan racing clubs and
the Trotting Control Board to re-imburse
them for their contributions to the es-
tablishment of TAB and the remainder
is distributed to Victorian charities.
When the racing clubs are fully reim-
bursed, the Government will distribute
the whole of its share to charities.
For the year to end July, charities re-
ceived £472,178 and the racing clubs
about £350,000 from T.A.B.’s opera-
tions. This year charities are expected
to get close on £ 1 million. Mr Smith
says both charities and racing clubs are
quite satisfied with the results so far
and that the public have reacted very
favorably to the whole scheme. Early
suggestions that a betting shop atmos-
phere would develop at TAB centres
has been belied so far The IAB say
that on a Saturday, when the heaviest
business is done, 97 per cent, of the
stakes have been placed before 2.30
and thereafter the centres aie very
quiet. During his State-wide inspection
of TAB centres Mr Smith has seen
only two in which the atmosphere was
not all that might be desired
In his view, people are using the
TAB betting centres precisely in the
way instigators of the Agency intended
and in consequence there has been
hardly any criticism of the scheme even
from those originally against it. He said
there had been no protest from the
churches since the centres were estab-
lished, nor had there been any comeback
through political parties on the way the
scheme is working. Public reaction was
good.
Moreover, the racing clubs were per-
fectly satisfied. Racing attendances, so
far as this could be judged over one
year, had not been affected though there
had been some adversj fluctuations
mainly attributable to special factors.
For instance the attendance at last year’s
Melbourne Cup was only 81,000 whereas
the year before’s Centenary Melbourne
Cup had attracted more than 100,000.
However, the average attendance in re-
cent years before 1961 for the Cup had
been around 80,000. Mr Smith said that
weather was the dominating factor in
racecourse attendances. Attendances at
Caulfield showed a marked increase in
the early part of 1961-62 when the
weather was especially good, so had
those at this year’s winter jumping
meetings at Flemington, though those at
Caulfield had recently been poor owing
to the inclement weather.
Significantly, when commenting on
the loss of £26,172 incurred by the
VRC last financial year, during which
the TAB was in operation, VRC
chairman Sir Chester Manifold, who is
also chairman of the TAB, blamed the
deficit not on the TAB but on the
credit squeeze. Attendances were down
at Flemington certainly from 613,000
to 539,000 a drop of 74,000 and total
receipts, excluding the Club's share of
the off course tote operations, were
£73,379 lower. However, when the
Club gets its cut from the TAB, which
will be about £82,000 for the year it will
be well on the right side in its accounts.
Sir Chester told the annual meet-
ing of the VRC on August 27 that the
State Government is the most successful
punter at Flemington, taking £571,391
for its stake, of which turnover tax on
bookmakers returned a lucrative £220,-
568. In fact the Government’s share of
proceeds at Flemington was just on
£lOO,OOO more than the VRC’s, which
has only the TAB to thank for nar-
rowing the gap to about £20,000.


EXPORTERS: this will interest you even if you’ve never thought of using Air Cargo before!
f
r--
* *t
SINGAPORE
SWINGS
to
Australian Discs
■
m
QANTAS jockeys E.M.I. discs
to record record record sales
in S.E. Asia
E.M.l.’s problem is to record, press and distribute records
to the East before changes in the Hit Parade can turn a
profitable platter into a dead disc. Two or three days can
make the difference. Every consignment is racing against
time and against teenagers’ changes in taste. E.M.I. has
consistently used Qantas Air Cargo to turn the tables on
these factors —and with success. Take one recent example.
Tuesday, 9 a.m. E.M.I. in Sydney requests space for sample
records to Singapore. 3 p.m. “Pilot platters” leave Sydney.
Wednesday. Records auditioned in Singapore and E.M.I.
cabled to proceed with pressings. Friday, 9 a.m. E.M.I.
advise Qantas pressings complete at 1 p.m. 3 p.m. Bulk
consignment of records leaves Sydney. Saturday, a.m.
Records delivered by Qantas and on sale in Singapore.
A record-selling Singapore platter purveyor said recently,
“Qantas is revolutionising turntable turnover.”
QANTAI AIR CAR6O
41 YEARS OF DEPENDABLE SERVICE
HOW THIS EXPORTER BENEFITED
1. Records reached the consignee before market
demands changed.
2. Records could be auditioned by the consignee
without seriously affecting delivery time.
3. Specific commodity rates on records lowered
overall air cargo costs.
4. Good relations with re-sellers were maintained
by prompt and well-timed delivery.
5. E.M.I. benefited from increased speed in ths
turn around of funds.
HOW THE QANTAS EXPORT
CONSULTANT SERVICE CAN HELP YOU
Qantas puts at your disposal one of the most
comprehensive transport systems in the world.
Qantas analyses each export/import problem indi-
vidually and offers you this Qantas six-point
service-—FREE.
1. Distribution time and static time analysis gives
you a time and motion plot on your goods from
despatch to arrival.
2. Costing breakdown on your complete shipping
operation.
3. Systematic appraisal of packaging with sug-
gested modifications for the lighter, more eco-
nomical handling and packing of your freight
needs.
4. Advice on alternative routings, accelerated cart-
age, taxation and insurance reductions.
5. Analysis of current economic situation of world
markets, quarantine, import, currency and
customs regulations.
6. A business venue in many overseas countries
in Qantas offices in Europe, America, Asia, the
Orient, New Zealand and Africa.
EXPORT it by QANTAS if it’s
IMPORTant to you!
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED, in association with Air India, 8.0.A.C., and TEAL
QAC37.105.82


THE MEN BEHIND
THE PARTY MACHINES
The Sydney Fixers of Gaul bum, Ash, Bridge
and Bathurst Streets
By PETER COLEMAN
One of the greatest success stories
in Australian politics has been
the 21-year rule over NSW by
the Labor Party. When it came to power
in 1941 it was so broke it had to give
the Party headquarters, Room 32 in
Trades Hall, a Public Service extension
to help it cut back its phone bill; today
it has some of the State’s biggest big-
businessmen contributing to its funds.
It has survived the biggest split in the
history of the Labor Party and in the
last State election even increased its
number of seats.
It has pulled all this off partly because
it has governed the State reasonably well
(The worst thing about it is the web of
corruption it has allowed to spread
through the State, but in prosperous
times nobody in democratic countries
really cares about corruption); partly
because it gets on well with businessmen
and has built up its own big business
elite; and above all because outside a
couple of country dioceses it has the un-
compromising support of the Catholic
Church.
It is the role of the Catholic Church
which is the main clue to NSW politics,
not only to Labor’s survival but to DLP
and Liberal failures. Twenty-one years
ago the Catholics thought of themselves
as a persecuted minority; today they have
tremendous influence throughout every
level of the Government and Public
Service. To Church leaders this is an
historic achievement; they have shown
they can run NSW and run it well. They
will do nothing to jeopardise this achieve-
ment. The Church helped keep Labor
united in NSW, and in power, when in
Victoria it split into bits, and today they
will certainly not destroy the Labor
Government simply because it will not
give Church schools State Aid. On the
State Aid issue the Church’s policy in
most dioceses seems rather to continue
supporting the Labor Party while wait-
ing for the Liberal and Country Parties
to make State Aid part of their policies;
then a Labor Government could intro-
duce State Aid without fear of being
attacked by the Opposition for doing so.
The Church would then have the best
of both worlds.
In these circumstances the Labor
Government has become more conserva-
tive than the conservatives. It wants a
quiet life and it wants to survive. The
Liberals are even forced to assume radi-
cal postures in order to seem different
from Labor. The men who run the
Labor Party and keep it surviving are
the “Four Just Men”: J. B. Renshaw,
P. D. Hills, N. J. Mannix and R. S.
Maher. At the other end of the Party
machine, they look to Room 32 to main-
tain an Executive that will not embarrass
the Government.
Room 32 is in Trades Hall, an old
Victorian block built at Government
expense at the western end of Goulburn
St. It is on the first floor up the stairs
past the ancient signs—“ Please Do Not
Injure There Walls”, “This is Your Pro-
perty. Assist to Protect it and Keep it
Clean.” Financed by unions and dona-
tions it organises branches, runs policy
committees, settles disputes, arranges
deputations to Ministers and above all
runs the Annual June Conferences of
the Party which elect the Executive and
adopt Party policy. Its biggest job is to
see to it that the right Executive and
the right policies are adopted.
The man who runs Room 32 is Genera!
Secretary W. R Colbourne, a non-
smoking clean-shaven man of 63 who
wears slim-jim ties. A careful, tidy man
he is an expert with finance. He has lived
through two big splits in th Party—over
Lang in the 1930 s and over the Groups
in the 19505. He joined the Party
over 45 years ago, and in his
early twenties was elected to the NSW
Executive. But he was anti-Lang and
when Lang took over the NSW Party he
followed Ben Chifley over to the NSW
branch of the Federal Labor Party. He
became its Secretary in a pokey office in
Vine House. When the two factions or
parties merged, however, Colbourne was
dumped again and for the following 16
years was off the Party pay-roll. He
spent these years as a commercial
traveller, clerk, insurance agent and he
built up a new union, the Insurance
Agents Union in 1939 and became its
full-time Federal Secretary in 1942.
After a period on the staff of the Iron-
workers’ and Clerks’ unions he was
elected to the NSW Executive and in
1954 became its General Secretary.
Then followed the 1956 split. Col-
bourne, one of the spokesmen for the
Groupers, seemed certain to be dumped
once more. But to preserve his Party
Premier Cahill wanted a deal with his old
enemies, the leftists, and Colbourne came
up with the idea of the “balanced ex-
ecutive.” Colbourne remained on the
new “balanced executive” and continued
as Secretary.
He has remained there ever since.
At first, as an ex-Grouper his position
was insecure. In those days under the
Presidency of F. Campbell, a bitter anti-
Grouper, the Secretary was probably less
powerful in Room 32 than the Assistant
Secretary Tony Mulvihill. Colbourne


$
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in Englund
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Fnnds Exceed
5A413,000.000
Offices :
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
quietly toed the new line but as the
political climate changed and refusal to
compromise with Communists became
less reprehensible, Colbourne’s power has
increased. Today supported by President
C. Oliver he is the strong man of Room
32. His only remaining ambition might
be to return to his old position of the
1930 s as Federal Secretary of the ALP
to organise the new Secretariat to be set
up in Canberra.
He has held office for a record period
and is a perfect symbol of NSW Labor
Party and its survive-and-rule at any
price policy.
Next to Colbourne the other men who
run the Party machine in NSW are Presi-
dent C. Oliver, Vice-President Fred
Bowen and Assistant Secretary Tony
Mulvihill. Colbourne and Oliver are the
delegates to the Federal Conference.
No dictates embarrassing to the
Government—whether over clean ballots
or State Aid—will ever issue from Room
32 while he is in charge. He can claim,
however, that Labor rules NSW and no
other major State in Australia. The DLP
can keep Liberals in office in Victoria,
Queensland and WA, but in NSW Labor
can ignore the DLP.
Bathurst St
HThe DLP’s failure in NSW is basically
x due to the opposition to it from
Cardinal Gilroy who sometimes regards
it as a sort of Reformation heresy but
more often as trying to upset the apple
cart he has spent so many years and so
much pride in building.
The DLP in NSW is almost only one
man, Jack Kane, who was thrown out of
Room 32 by the Caretaker Executive in
1956. (On the wall of his office are news-
paper cartoons of his “execution”.) His
headquarters now are reminiscent of
Colbourne’s old office in Vine House
when he was secretary of the im-
poverished Federal Labor Party in the
early 19305. The carpets are torn, the
blinds are faded straw, there are bits of
scrap metal kicking around on the stairs
outside. Kane himself feels the office is
the Party’s worst advertisement, and he
often tries to meet people in cafes rather
than take them to the office. To others,
however, it has an atmosphere appro-
priate to a dedicated minority.
And dedication is almost all that keeps
the DLP going in NSW. It has almost
no money, no members of Parliament,
no affiliated unions, only a couple of
thousand members. In the early days of
the Party they had to let the Assistant
Secretary Rooney go because they could
not guarantee his salary. Kane has to do
everything. What an ALP Secretary can
order someone to do, Kane has to do
himself—publicity, administration, re-
cruiting members, raising money, elec-
tioneering.
A big solid broad-fisted man with a
magnificent wart on his chin, he is an
expert at organisation which he defines
as “getting the right men in the right
place at the right time”. When he was
Assistant General Secretary of the ALP
nothing like the Mrs Isaksen case ever
happened, or could have: he would have
the right numbers in the right place
when they were needed. (Three years
ago Isaksen had been expelled from the
Party for appearing on a Unity Ticket.
He applied for readmission to the Party
at the June Conference and Colbourne’s
executive opposed readmission. But
Mrs. Isaksen delivered such a passionate
speech that she persuaded delegates to
readmit him, despite the executive).
Some Labor men still talk of the days
when Kane, a master of the mass rally,
ran the June Conferences and when
Dr Evatt’s entrances —managed by Kane
—were a dramatic high point.
® The first in a series of articles
dealing with the political parties in
each State.
Ex-miner Jack Kane first became pro-
minent in the early 1950 s as Secretary
of the NSW Industrial Groups which the
Labor Party established after the war to
combat the Communists in the Unions.
Using the clean ballot legislation and
supported by B. A. Santamaria’s Catholic
Social Studies Movement, Kane with
Rooney helped win the victories in the
Amalgamated Engineering Union, the
Amalgamated Postal Workers’ Union,
and the Federated Iron Workers’ As-
sociation.
Then in the middle ’fifties he was
“axed” by Dr Evatt and the Australian
Workers’ Union which at that time
linked with the leftists to split the Labor
Party in the hope of regaining its former
power in NSW. Kane was third-degreed
by the Federal Executive of the Labor
Party in the Board Room of 2KY and
charged with circulating a bodgie how-
to-vote ticket to anti-grouper delegates
at the Labor conference so that their
votes would be informal. But according
to the Returning officer none of the
informal votes followed the bodgie ticket.
This was the period when the Federal
Executive listened to charges of im-
morality against one member of the
NSW Executive and one anti-grouper,
Senator Ormonde, revealed hearing
secrets of Santamaria’s movement behind
Lady Macquarie's Chair in The Domain.
The Federal Executive dismissed all of
the NSW Executive except Kane and
Colbourne, and soon after C. Oliver of
the AWU moved Kane’s dismissal (“I
know you are going to cut my head off,”
Kane said. “Go ahead.”). He then be-
came organising secretary of the In-
dustrial Unions Labor Organisation but
when ALP members were forbidden to
belong to this organisation he was ex-
pelled from the Party. In September,
1956, the DLP was formed with Kane as
its General Secretary.
He has been a work-horse ever since
—assisted by his secretary Molly Gray
who came over from Room 32 with him.
Whereas the ALP has organisers to
recruit members Kane recruits them him-
self: someone doing a “survey” finds out
the likely names in a district and Kane
follows them up. (Once in Orange he
recruited almost 10 a day for a month).
Then he has to get them to “kick the
tin”. Members pay 7/6 to their branch,
but the head office depends on donations.
(He tries to get £lO from each member
a year—“ 4- a week”, he says. “Only
one packet of cigarettes”). The Party also
raises money by raffles and odd jobs such
as stencilling. Like all Parties, however, it
has trouble paying its bills. The last
Federal election cost £lO,OOO according
to the report to the Commonwealth
Electoral Office (No other Party has yet
submitted a report.)
Kane also prepares or arranges for
someone else to prepare Party propa-


ganda, though in election campaigns the
Melbourne Advertising John Clemenger
works for the DLP. He runs cottage
lectures, films, discussion groups; he ad-
dresses workshop committees and New
Australian groups. He has to do far
more himself than any other Secretary;
Labor Secretaries are helped not only by
union organisers who tour the country
but by members who are potential can-
didates and anxious to do extra work.
Potential candidates are often anxious to
do extra work to impress Room 32; but
no DLP man expects to be elected to
Parliament in NSW.
The Party’s future in NSW is bleak.
Its successes are few: it helped defeat
Labor in the Wagga election in 1957 but
unlike the DLP in Victoria or Western
Australia it has been unable to defeat the
Labor Government in the State. The
Labor Party under the influence of Col-
bourne and Oliver is right-wing and
Oliver’s attacks on the Victorian fellow-
travelling Executive leave little for Kane
to say. The only Catholic dioceses
sympathetic to the DLP are Wagga and
Armidale.
Kane's own future is as uncertain as
his party. The DLP is unlikely to remain
a third or fourth Party indefinitely, but
any deal with the ALP would probably
mean dumping Kane. He has stood twice
for Parliament and once for the Senate.
Ironically, for such a skilled organiser
he was out-organised by his ALP oppo-
nent whose supporters ran the line in
door-knocks that they liked the DLP but
felt it was best to fight for its causes
inside the ALP: the ALP man got 53
per cent, of Kane’s preferences, and won
Ash St
NSW Liberal Party is the Party
where something always goes wrong.
The atmosphere in its headquarters, Ash
St, is schizophrenic. Upstairs in the
National Club where State and Federal
Liberals meet both each other and a
variety of lobbyists (politics in Liberal
circles is largely a matter of eating) the
strength that the Liberals have had
Federally for 12 years spills over to the
State branch and a sense of success and
power prevails. But downstairs in NSW
Party rooms a note of desperate anger is
quick to rise.
The NSW Liberal Party is the only
party in Australia that has never won an
election. Yet three times in the 1950 s it
(with the Country Party) won a majority
of the votes. It has won highest vote in
any State election anywhere. Gerryman-
dering and the abolition of postal votes
have cost them some seats, but two other
factors have kept them in the wilderness:
Firstly, the failure of the NSW Labor
split to take on Victorian proportions
(down there Bolte's Liberals can win with
about 30 per cent, of the vote); secondly,
and ironically, the success of the Liberals
in Federal Parliament: every time Mr
Menzies told the voters they’ve never
had it so good, he was in effect encourag-
ing NSW voters not to change their State
Government —which is Labor.
Jn desperation they have tried or sug-
gested a variety of measures —everything
from policy changes to whispering cam-
paigns. The most obvious expedients
have been new Parliamentary leaders:
First Vernon Treatt was dismissed; then
Murray Robson; then H. Morton. Some
ask how long Bob Askin will stay
Members have been denied pre-selection
and “new blood” brought in —to no
avail so far.
To the Parliamentary wing of the
Party the trouble lies with Ash St officials
who, under Senator Spooner’s influence,
are more concerned with keeping the
Menzies Government in power than with
getting the Askin Party to power. (Under
the Party’s peculiar constitution the Par-
liamentary leader cannot be Party Presi-
dent —which is one way of making
liaison between the two arms harder).
To Ash St the trouble lies with the in-
competence of the Parliamentary
Liberals. To the outsider the trouble may
be that the rank and file—or rather the
rank and file of the North Shore and
Eastern Suburbs branches which for all
intents and purposes are the Liberal
Party—do not force a reform of the
Party’s constitution or force proper liai-
son on the Parliamentary Party and Ash
St. One symptom of the self-destructive
divisions in the Party is that in the last
State election there were three indepen-
dent campaigns, all run for the same
official party: none would trust the other
to do the job properly.
The men who run the Party from the
top are Senator Spooner, President Ralph
Honner, former President Cotton, D.
Aarons who raises the money and A. D.
Bridges MLC a leading businessman and
famous blood-donor and teetotaller, the
last of the big businessmen to surrender
a bowler hat, who for many is the con-
science of the Liberal Party. If the Party
has an informal centre besides the
National Club it is the NSW Club.
The man who keeps—or w'ithin the
limits set by the Party’s divisions—the
machine oiled is J. L. Carrick. He was
one of the New Men recruited after the
war by Senator Spooner—the men who
were disgusted by the lynch law that pre-
vailed in the UAP. A thin, strong-jawed
tight-lipped flashing-eyed economist, he
learnt the power game the hard way as
a prisoner-of-war on the Burma-Thailand
“Railway of Death”. Beginning as a re-
search officer in Ash Street in 1946 he
was General Secretary by 1948, at the
age of 29.
He had then a pivotal position in a
party that was still growing. Members
did not attend Parliament, branch meet-
ings were tea-and-lemonade affairs,
amateur inefficiency and old-fashioned
views on everything from drink to Catho-
lics prevailed. It was a new party but a
stale one at the same time. They kept
hammering away for example at the
slogan that NSW under a Labor Govern-
ment was the Gambling State, The
Casino-State, etc, oblivious of the fact
that this conveyed to most people the
idea that Labor believed in enjoying life
whereas Liberals didn’t. Or again, they
alienated Catholic voters by not having
one Catholic MLA —and when they did
finally have one they got rid of him.
Or again, they kept harping on the idea
that a Room 32 junta terrorised the
Labor MP's when for years it has had
little real power over the politicians. It is
one of Garrick’s greatest contributions
that he has helped bring humanity and
realism into the Party’s policies.
Over the years Carrick has been one
of the most active of the builders, orga-
niser, fund-raiser, policy-framer, propa-
gandist and fall-guy. His resignation
has been rumored as often as, say, Mr
Menzies. No one day can be
scheduled, the phones ring constantly,
and his large office (with a photograph
of R. G. Menzies, at one end and Sir
Winston Churchill at the other) has two
doors: according to critics (or romantics),
this is so that someone leaving can go
out of one door without seeing who is
waiting to come in the other. All day he
is lobbied on anything literally from
China to Peru. He is beyond doubt the
most efficiency-conscious (and efficient)
Party secretary in NSW.
But something always goes wrong.
For example in the last election, after
years of agitating for rent reform the
Party was forced into adopting a policy
that involved telling thousands of voters
in rented flats that the Liberals were
going to put up their rents. Or again
after years of appealing for the wowser
vote by attacking gambling it suddenly
adopted at the last minute a policy of
legalised SP betting. Again, before the
elections the Annual General Confer-
ence, a Parliamentary sub-committee and
President Ralph Honner had demanded
a policy of State Aid for Catholic
schools, but the framers of the policy
speech decided —after noting that in
country areas the Catholic Church w'as


Automation
comes to your
switchboard
The telephonist can comfortably handle the telephone traffic
o! a large business with this automated push-button console.
It is the SIC Pentaconta PABX, a telephone system entirely
new to Australia.
Consider its advantages. SPEED—callers are connected instan-
taneously at the touch of a button; calls don’t bank up and
there is no answering delay; calls can be transferred between
extensions without the telephonist's help. EASE OF
CON TROL—the Pentaconta telephonist switches all calls by
pushbutton thus speeding up operation and eliminating fatigue.
RELIABILITY —refinements such as the use of precious metals
for electrical contacts eliminate irritating background noises
from telephone conversations.
For further information and illustrated literature on this
modern system, now being installed in Australia’s most
progressive businesses, contact:
*
■
:
* ft
"ft
JA
■■■?.
:•
:: - -
ft--
Standard Telephones and Cables Pti/. Ltd
SYDNEY: 252-274 Botany Road, Alexandria MX 0444 • BRISBANE: Cnr. Wilson &
Boundary Streets, West End J 1771 • MELBOURNE: 174 King Street 60-1406
• CANBERRA: 39 Empire Circuit, Forrest, A.C.T. 91043.
DISTRIBUTORS:
South Australia: Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 54 North Terrace West, Adelaide 51-3731
• Western Australia: M. J. Bateman Pty. Ltd., 12 Milligan Street, Perth 21-2951 •
Tasmania: W. & G. Genders Pty Ltd., Launceston, Hobart, Burnie, Devonport.
REPRESENTATIVES: Newcastle: Newcastle Automatic Signals Pty. Ltd. 118 Lawson St.,
Hamilton, Newcastle. 61-5172 • Wollongong: A. E, S. (Aust.) Pty. Ltd. Unanderra, N.S.W.
U 9154 • Canberra: Hackett Radio and Television Pty. Ltd., Box 456 P.O. Canberra
A.C.T., X 1369.
A2G9A
USb


not urging Catholics to support Country
Party candidates against Labor candi-
dates even though the CP supported State
Aid and Labor didn’t—that this would
not break the Catholic Church’s loyalty
to Labor and would alienate some Pro-
testant votes, and they therefore dropped
it: most Liberals didn’t know where they
were.
Inevitably after each defeat the rival
factions immediately blamed the others
for their failures and the damaging
divisions grow deeper.
The horse-traders
YI/hen you move across to the Country
"" Party from Ash Street to Bridge
Street you enter a different country
altogether. If there is an air of despera-
tion in the Liberal Party, there is an air
of tight-lipped confidence in the Country
Party— as if they had just pulled off
another secret deal. This is the Party of
the horse-traders, the buccaneers and one
of the most successful minority parties in
Australian history. Though it has not
been in the NSW Government for 21
years, it never hoped actually to domi-
nate the State, so its sense of failure is
less acute.
A minority party —with only 14 mem-
bers in the Legislative Assembly it
knows it can only survive and have in-
fluence if it preserves almost complete
cohesion, and it is able to do this largely
because the Party is as much a way of
life as a political organisation. The ex-
servicemen’s ethos for example, is strong
in the Country Party (all its shadow
Cabinet are ex-servicemen), and though
conservative types of men (in the “early-
to-bed-early-to rise sense”) they are none
of them wowsers but all solid drinkers
who like to think of themselves as the
most Australian of the Parties. (In some
ways they have temperamentally more in
common with old-style Labor men than
with Liberals, and only the Australian
Workers’ Union equals it for Australia-
nism). The members live in their
country electorates—mainly in northern
NSW—and when in town for Parliament
are as likely to sleep on a couch in
Parliament House as buy a city house. It
all adds to the cliquishness of the Party
and reinforces their loyalty; though pro-
fessional horse-traders, when they make
a deal, they remain men of their word,
and the outsider will have a job finding
out in advance the details of their deals.
They are the Party of well-kept secrets.
They were also fortunate in their forma-
tive years in having outstanding leaders,
especially Colonel M. Bruxner.
Though it is pretty hopeless trying to
work out any Party’s membership figures,
it is a complete waste of time trying to
guess the Country Party’s; its branches
are less important than those in the other
Parties and despite the rules some of
them don’t meet at all. (“Why waste time
with unnecessary branch meetings?”)
It relies in the farther reaches of its
machine on hard-working organisers, the
bank-order system of donations, and the
MP’s contacts throughout his electorate.
More than other Parties the individual
MP rather than his branch wins the
votes.
But though a country-based Party this
does not stop it recruiting city men. It
used its surplus votes to elect city busi-
nessmen per Asher Joel to the Legislative
Council despite the crisis this caused in
the Liberal Party. Later in 1959 it re-
cruited Asher Joel and three Liberal
MLC’s (Messrs H. P. Fitz Simmons, F.
G. Pratten and L. S. Snider) to the
Country Party making it stronger in the
Upper House than the Liberals.
There is little love lost between the
Liberal and Country Parties though there
is far less bitterness than there is
between the ALP and the DLP. At
Parliamentary level their relations are
better today (because the CP can do
business with Mr Askin) than they have
been since Murray Robson was dumped
as Liberal leader for bucking the
machine. But generally the Country
Party likes to look on Liberals as weak-
kneed wowsers, lawyers, accountants and
backstabbers who run for cover when-
ever the chips are down, while the
Liberals like to see the Country Party
as a corrupt Parliamentary club, a clique
run by a handful of Legislative Coun-
cillors. (The Liberals want to reform
the Legislative Council, the Country
Party wants to leave it just as it is).
It is also particularly galling to
Liberals to see how much city money,
big business money, the Country Party
attracts. If the policies of the Party are
for farmers, the money comes from Pitt
Street farmers. Some of this is a per-
manent arrangement, some only a tem-
porary measure because some big busi-
nesses are at the moment unwilling to
back the Liberals and back the Country
Party instead in order to twist, so to
speak, Mr Menzies’ tail.
Nevertheless the two Parties work
together, up to a point, in elections. The
CP finally agreed to Carrick’s idea of
triangular contests in the country seats,
where by strict exchange of preferences
the opposition candidates get more votes
than any one candidate would. (In the
towns some Liberal voters would vote
Labor rather than CP if no Liberal can-
didate and some CP voters would vote
Labor rather than Liberal: but if there
are both candidates they follow the
ticket and exchange preferences.) But the
CP was reluctant to do this since every
time a Liberal stands in the country he
forms a branch and sooner of later he
may destroy the Country Party alto-
gether.
The men who run the Party machine
are J. Fuller, MLC (the nephew of the
former nationalist Premier), H. V. Budd,
MLC (the editor of “Land” newspaper),
J. M. Carter, MLC, and J. F. Dredge,
the Party Secretary. Dredge, a full-
time official, was born in Mauritius,
the son of a British Army Officer.
His schooling was in England. He arrived
in Australia in 1915 and after jackaroo-
ing in Victoria joined the AIF. He was
gassed in the war and after 12 months’
treatment returned to jackarooing this
time in North Queensland. Then for 26
years he worked as a bookkeeper for
F. S. Falkiner and Sons, and was also a
member of the Urana Shire Council.
After the war he replaced Colonel Munro
as Secretary of the Party, taking over
the jobs of publicity, research, fund-
raising, policy framing, committee-or-
ganising. His office does not employ
research workers, though occasionally
allots special funds to get an outsider to
do research on a particular issue. It relies
generally on the know-how of its mem-
bers and on hard bargaining rather than
expert research.
In a period of increasing professiona-
lisation in politics there is an air of old-
fashioned hard-headed and highly success-
ful amateurism about the Country Party.
It is the only Party that is not perma-
nently in a financial crisis.
The Machiavellians
Will the Labor hegemony in NSW
" last indefinitely? To the hard-heads
in the Liberal and Country Parties there
are only three ways they can ever come
to power. The first is to foment a split
in the ALP. This can now be ruled out
as a possibility. It proved impossible in
1956 and the DLP’s failure in NSW
shows it is a forlorn hope. The second
is for NSW Liberals to help defeat the
Menzies Government. Then under
Arthur Calwell a Labor Government
would make such a mess of the country
that a general anti-Labor reaction
would spill over into NSW politics. This
is not only highly speculative but would
certainly split both the Liberal Party
branches and Ash St. The third way is
to crack really hard, raise the Catholic
issue and attack the Labor Govern-
ment as a tool of the Catholic Church.
A revival of sectarianism, say the
Machiavellians, is the only real hope.
This suggestion is the real measure of
the opposition’s desperation. The trouble
with it is that it would not only involve
reversing Country Party policy but would
alienate all those Protestant Liberals
who detest sectarianism. And the ex-
ample of Dr Evatt should not be exactly
encouraging to the Machiavellians.
Failing some unimagined circumstance
or a complete reshuffle it sometimes
looks as if the Liberal and Country
Parties are the Parties That Cannot Win.


A COLONIAL AT
EDINBURGH
An expose of neuroses, self-conscious decadences,
appalling conceits and pitiful uncertainties
By HAL PORTER
The Writers’ Week of the Adelaide
Festival of Arts seemed to me, at
the time, not to be a terribly good
or useful idea. 1 could not foresee that
it would be a vital and air-clearing thing.
It was so because of the vitalities of the
Australian writers; their interaction, one
on the other, should ultimately prove
enormously valuable I am not sure
how. At least there was a revelation
of general sanity, common sense, clarity
of aim, and purposeful intention.
The Writers’ Conference of the Edin-
burgh Arts Festival, from Monday, Aug-
ust 20 to Friday, August 24, in the vast
barrel-shaped McEwan Hall of Edin-
burgh University, was another kettle of
fish. Whatever else it purposed, how-
ever Red-streaked, it was an expose of
the neuroses, self-conscious decadences,
appalling conceits and pitiful uncertain-
ties, if not of the Old World itself, cer-
tainly of many of the writers of the Old
World who—for reasons best known to
themselves —appeared there. It scarcely
matters what dead horses were flogged
by some of these already dead and
dying writers. They included such sub-
jects as Commitment, Censorship, The
Difference in Approach of English and
Continental Writers, and The Future of
the Novel.
It seems to me to matter very much
that, Left or Right or Tight-rope, dedi-
cated to Literature per se or literature
with an ideological kink, that the tone
of the gatherings, almost from the jump,
was one of lunacy and nightmare. I was
compelled in horror, to say so to the
50-odd writers and the 2000 listeners —
who had paid 7/6 or 5/- to occupy the
body of the hall or the two lofty tiers
of seats under the dome. The talk had
been nightmare talk, glib and verbose, of
loneliness, exile, ex-patriotism and death.
This was not done en passant but re-
peatedly and obsessively. By the end of
the week nothing was solved how
could it be?—but it was not solved in
a way that shocked the Australian in me
as well as the human being.
I was quite as unprepared to be selected
to go to Edinburgh, as to find myself, a
poor public speaker, somehow represent-
ing something in the company of people
who had been famous or infamous for
years, before an audience largely com-
posed of people of a race notoriously
dotty about education. Who was I repre-
senting? Australia? Myself? Angus and
Robertson? (Someone must have paid
my fares). Little John Calder? (Someone
must have arranged that 1 stay with an
Edinburgh artist well-heeled enough to
own a vermilion Jaguar, and to live be-
hind a dour grey terrace facade, in a
large flat containing, among other exotic
amenities, a thickly carpeted bathroom
which had every device including a
bidet and one of those continental
showers like a telephone).
Let me begin at the beginning.
At London Airport, the first real living
and drinking author I met, he at a
brandy, I at a whisky, was L. P. Hartley.
He was pleasant and diffident. He bor-
rowed a handkerchief from me to mop
his freckled, sweating bald head. During
the week he uttered once only, on Com-
mitment. He was anti-commitment in the
self-possessed manner most of the Eng-
lish speakers used. This was over-edu-
cated, over-articulate, Puckish and
Punch-ishly witty—it was the manner, at
one or the other level, of such other Eng-
lishmen as Rayner Heppinstall, J. P.
Ackerley, Richard Hughes, Stephen
Spender and Angus Wilson. If I envy
them their gift of the gab I do not
envy their discreet cynicism.
It was a horrifying and dirty discovery
to encounter, again and again, this not-
to-worry attitude, this light and charm-
ing politeness so much divorced from
good manners, this evasive eccentricity.
As I sat by Stephen Spender during one
session, he was trying to sketch Henry
Miller who was waiting to say something
unimportant, and Mary McCarthy who
was loudly arranging novels in pigeon-
holes. Spender draws rather more badly
than he used to write poetry, but speaks
with the self-opinionated clarity of a
self-constituted authority. He is, of
course, a tall man. David Caute, small
and beaky, chatted, fervently high-
pitched, on the need for commitment.
His reasons were scarcely good
enough to remember, but I do re-
member, at one of the numerous
sherry parties which laced the week,
his offering to kiss my shoes be-
cause I had met Patrick White. I pointed
out that this was decidedly not necessary.
Henry Miller, another short man, and
the most dapper of the writers, looked
younger than his photographs, and said
nothing, twice, in a mild, cute American
accent. Once it was that he would never
have written “Tropic of Cancer” had he
known it was going to cause all the
discussion about censorship. This, like
his other forgettable statement, was
Grand Old Man of Pornography fun.
Because Miller and other Banned
Boys or Naughty Boys were there
William Burroughs, Norman Mailer and
Alexander Trocchi —it seemed necessary
for drug-taking, lesbianism, pornography,
four-letter Saxons and homo-sexuality to
be discussed equally as over-much as
loneliness, exile, doom and death. One
Dutch writer was moved to publicly an-
nounce to assembled Edinburgh and the
newspapermen and the camera-men that
he was homo-sexual.
Dame Rebecca West said, aside to me,
and later publicly, that she always had
normal sexual relations of great happi-
ness. Muriel Spark, a pretty Scottish-
Jewess with legs like champagne bottles,
said—off-stage—that she was suspicious
of the motive behind the Dutchman’s
confession, and felt a strong inclination
to announce from the dais her own
hetero-sexuality, and her telephone
number.
Perhaps the most perpetually and skil-
fully charming of the writers was Law-
rence Durrell, witty and diplomatic to the
end. His own description of himself,
after a champagne breakfast with Henry
Miller, as Mr Lawrence Barrel woddling
like a Strasbourg goose to a BBC
microphone, is a description better than
I could give of his shortness and
rotundity and ability to mock himself, an
ability sadly lacked by many of the more
neurotic writers present. His five-minute


talk on the use of time in his novels was
dexterous and witty but left me mystified,
although not nearly as mystified as the
wowser-faced William Burrough’s de-
scription, in a flat and rasping voice, of
the making of a novel by interlarding
folded-over pages of other writer’s works
in his own.
This elaborate technique of creation
was explained dead-pan but this did not
stop Khushwant Singh asking the ques-
tion I could not be bothered asking, “Is
he being serious?” Singh was a blue-
turbaned Sikh in a rather Menzies-ish
pin-striped, double-breasted navy blue.
He was a very smooth performer with
a voluptuous smile, and a voice of rum-
truffle richness.
When I was introduced to Norman
Mailer he told me that Australians were
the only people in the world he was
frightened of. For this Australian the
feeling was mutual. Mailer was yet an-
other of the short writers, stocky, with
a butch manner of truculent self-posses-
sion, and crazy blue eyes.
“Is he being serious?”
TTis noisily, though skilfully, expressed
theory that censorship of sex novels
was a device of war-mongering govern-
ments to save the virility of its men so
that they would not be weakened as war-
riors seemed also to require the question,
“Is he being serious?” He was being seri-
ous, dead serious, in an around-the-bend
manner, in this statement as in other
statements and ferocious interjections.
What his ultimate obsession is, is prob-
lematical. Obsession of some sort is cer-
tainly there.
The session devoted to the discussion
of Scottish writing was also pregnant
with mysterious obsessions. It was the
only one not played to a full house: per-
haps the Scots had had previous experi-
ence of their writers. It was a riot. It
could have been amusing had one known
more about the subtler enmities existing
between Scottish writers, or if many of;
the participants had not been incoher-
ently drunk. It was not always possible to
tell who of the roaring and ranting Scots
around the drink-laden table were
whiskied-up, and who were merely in-
flamed by a local passion.
Among those trying to express what-
ever-it-was were Alexander Reid, Walter
Keir, Robin Jenkins, David Daiches,
Naomi Mitchison, Douglas Young, Syd-
ney Goodsir-Smith and Hamish Hender-
son. Noisiest and most conspicuous was
a 70-year-old poet called Hugh Mac-
Diarmid, dressed in a gay kilt, who bel-
lowed out that he was a Communist, nd
spent some time reciting the names of
notorious Russians who had written nice
congratulatory letters to him. Alex-
ander Trocchi, a big-nosed, big man, an
expatriate Scottish writer now living in
America, was also noisy, his loudest
contribution, directed at Daiches as
chairman, was, “There’s always a bloody
chairman!” Since it was soon after this
that I left to be driven in a taxi-cab to
Glasgow to be interviewed by a man
in London for the BBC Television show
“Tonight”, I did not see the rip-roaring
break-up of the session which was sud-
denly over-run by students singing anti-
Polaris songs, and attempting to sell
records of the songs. The Distinguished
Visitors occupying their uncomfortable
choir-stall-like seats on the dais left with
haste.
Among others who spoke during the
five days, sometimes with obsessive fer-
vour, sometimes with quivering passion
or petty intensity, often with obscurity,
were Erich Fried and Robert Jungk from
Austria, Peter Segedin and Aleksander
V. Stefanovic from Yugoslavia, Izhar
Smilansky from Israel and George Theo-
tokas from Greece. The abstractions
that clotted their speeches obscured their
intentions often Red or otherwise —
but not the overwhelming sense of
neurotic self-pity that pervaded much of
the week.
Overwrought and childish exchanges
were constant throughout the week. After
admitting on the first day that I felt my-
self in the position of an ill-educated
and barbaric colonial in a grotesque
nightmare of civilisation, I felt far less
alone by the end of the week.
Niccolo Tucci, an Italian turned
American, whose exquisitely lucid prose
I had much admired drifted disdainfully
about off-stage under a mass of grey and
black hair, one arm in a gaudy silk
scarf sling, his overcoat hanging cloak-
like from his shoulders. This romantic
get-up somehow fitted his delusions-of-
grandeur speech in which he attempted
to boom out, with gestures, the whole of
a long, long letter to the statesmen of
the world.
Angus Wilson, on this occasion co-
chairman with Norman Mailer, after
twitching for a while, interrupted: “This
is a long letter. Perhaps we could send
it by post.” Tucci continued reading, and
Wilson twitching. “Is this too long for
you, Mr. Wilson?” said Tucci I sup-
pose insolently is the adverb. “Far too
long,” said Wilson. Tucci continued to
read. Norman Mailer now rose omin-
ously to move towards Tucci. At that
Tucci said, “Enough!” and broke off in
the middle of a sentence, and left the
microphone. Norman Mailer is a sinister
man.
But all the incidents were not as
schoolboyish as this.
Rosamund Lehmann, the most beauti-
ful of the women present, with her pink-
ish-mauve mane of hair, white velvet
face and arms, and restlessly mobile lips,
spoke with care and feeling of her belief
in the future of compassion and sanity
and warmth in writing. She and Khush-
want Singh who also spoke clearly on
behalf of less neuroticism and more love
of humanity were well-applauded, as, to
his amazement and relief, the present
writer was when he stumblingly said that,
while dismayed at the so-called problems
of the Old World he also had faith and
Australia had writers of the nature and
ability to do much for the future of the
novel.
Who else was underfoot during the
Writers’ Conference?
Malcolm Muggeridge being a skilful
chairman of the conference, firm and
charming.
Sonia Brownell, who was George Or-
well's widow, being an exhausted-looking
and pleasantly busy Liaison Officer.
Louis Awad, a busy Egyptian, button-
holing everyone to take notes on their
works for some projected vork of his
own.
Miodrag Bulatovi, the Yugoslavian
author of “The Red Cockerel”, perpetu-
ally carrying about a copy of the book,
and perpetually talking about it in
French. He was one of the speakers
plugging the point of loneliness.
Marion Friedmann talking with the
nasal affected English of the South Afri-
can about the position of the Statutory
Communist in Africa.
The filthy word, money
Macinness, almost certainly the
most handsome of the writers, talking
with more sense and clarity than most,
and with—thank God —objectivity.
Simon Raven, alone of the writers,
mentioned the filthy word money, and
that he wrote for money. He echoed
Nino Culotta at the Adelaide Writers’
Week, and recalled that gathering most
to the now nostalgic writer of this.
All in all—and objectively—the Ade-
laide get-together of writers was a far
far better one than the Edinburgh get-
together. It w'as livelier in a healthy
way; it was more mature; it was more
sane; it was less Red; it was less haunted
by the ghosts of decadence and despair
and creatures whose sensitivity has
turned sour and cranky and embarrass-
ingly introvert. I do not for one
moment imagine that all the writers of
the Old World are as silly as wheels
although there were enough of them
about to make me suspect it might be
so. I do know that such a circus as the
Edinburgh Writers’ Conference was, de-
spite the beauty of the city and the
heart-warming friendliness of its people,
not a Good Thing. I look forward to
the next show in Adelaide.
Meantime L. P. Hartley owes me one
white linen handkerchief.


COONAWARRA ESTATE*
CLARET
hS
&
Ax wine tastings through*
out the Commonwealth,
this claret stands out as
being the most enjoyable,
distinctive and authentic
in style.
* “ Estate” (as the word "Chateau” in France)
is used to distinguish this claret as being the
genuine product of the winegrowers own
vineyard.
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors:
S. WYNN & CO. PTY. LTD.
Paris News Letter
END OF THE LEGION
No longer smelling of "clean warm sand".
From NEIL MCINNES
In recent weeks the French Foreign
Legion has been beating the maquis
of Corsica in a giant manhunt for
its own deserters. Out of several hundred
who had quit before expiry of their five-
year contract, a few dozen were caught.
They were submitted, in addition to the
punishment foreseen by the rules, to the
traditional passage a tabac, a merciless
beating up from their comrades always
meted out to the Legion’s deserters. The
rest knowing what awaited them if they
were taken, stole cars to get to the coast
opposite Sardinia or Elba, where they
“borrowed” pleasure craft or even put to
sea on inflated beach mattresses; inevit-
ably an unknown number have been
drowned. The robberies, hold-ups and
assaults they committed (not only the
des:rters but regular legionnaires on a
night out) cannot be hushed up in Cor-
sica as they auld ' e in S’di-bel-Abbes,
Algeria, and so the break-up of this
famous unit is an ipen secret.
The Legion has a bar, mess and dor-
mitory in Paris, up on the Biiites de
Chaumont, for men on leave and old
boys who have taken out French
nationality ;nd settled in the city. Suit-
ably introduced, the inquisitive foreigner
passes unnoticed in this tower of Babel
where French is spoken mainly with the
guttural accents of central and eastern
Europe. On the wall is written the re-
mark of one of the Legion’s commanding
officers, a French general: “You are
soldiers-for-dying; you get sent where
there is death”, which has become the
unit’s motto. At the bar, women precede
politics not only in general conversation
but on the specific question of the
Legion’s present troubles.
“They used to say we smelt of clean
warm sand. We don’t seem to smell the
right way any more. So here’s trouble”.
The legionnaires feel being unwanted
more keenly than they resent being un-
used. In Algeria they lost not only the
chance of fighting but their home, and
that is why they made common cause
with the settlers; it was less that they
felt the settlers’ cause was just than that
they were all in the same boat. For the
law says that the Legion may not be sta-
tioned on French “metropolitan” terri-
tory—the temptation for a political gen-
eral to use in civil strife troops innocent
of any national sentiment is too obvious.
But when France’s last colonial posses-
sion is lost in Algeria, where can the
Legion go?
Distant French Guinea threatened to
revolt if the Legion were sent there. The
Madagascans had no objection to it be-
ing stationed in the base of Diego Suarez,
but if it were to have any military use
at all it could not be left on the other
side of the earth. The Army has got
around the difficulty, for the time being,
by pretending that Corsica is not part of
“metropolitan France”, although various
laws plainly say it is. The Corsicans, who
already have enough to complain about
in Paris’s neglect, are alarmed at the
Legion’s depredations, even before it was
decimated by desertions, so its future on
the island is uncertain.
Since it would never be accepted on
mainland France, the disappearance of
the Legion for want of a useful base is
henceforth a distinct possibility. Its de-
mobilisation was seriously envisaged just
after the Algiers putsch, when it had
been used by the felon generals to trig-
ger the insurrection, but the Government
was content, once the scare had passed,
to amputate it of its i ost dangerous ele-
ments and reduce its numbers. It has
since become clear that, in the absence of
colonial bases, the Legion is not only an
occasional political danger but a per-
petual menace to peace and quiet when
it has no inferior colonial people to push
around.
Other European states will be glad to
see it go, for its very existence and
romantic appeal is a thorn in the sides
of peaceful bourgeois everywhere. Any
youth in trouble at home heads for the
Legion’s recruiting office in Marseilles;
enough Australian adolescents have
talked of “joining the Legion” for us to
realise that thousands of Continentals try
to do so every year after a family row
or sentimental disappointment, for they
need no more than the rail fare to Mar-
seilles. Not that they are all enrolled;
the Legion has not been short of men
since it opened the doors to fugitives
from de-Nazification tribunals, and a re-
cruiting officer knows better than to get
a youth on the rebound to sign a five-
year contract. Numerous young Swiss
and Swedes, in particular, apply because
their own neutral armies do not offer
even the remote prospect of a fight. The
Legion provides a safety valve for pug-
nacity in various peace-sodden societies,
which the exponents of parental author-
ity do not appreciate.
Accordingly, France’s neighbors have
been bringing pressure on Paris to wind
up the unit for the past ten years. Their
main argument has been that the Legion
accepts recruits at 18, the normal age
for conscription in France, whereas else-
where in Europe men become liable for
the call-up at 20 or 21. Boys who could
not wait for the barracks life and a brawl
have headed for Marseilles. They soon
discovered the realities of the “noble pro-
fession of arms”: mobile field brothels in
the Algerian bled and torture sessions for
insurgent nationalist Arabs. Neighbor-
ing governments, notably in Bonn, rea-
lised that it was no advantage to be re-
lieved of one’s hard cases for a few
if they were returned more depraved
than ever. The Legion came to he de-
nounced as a school of crime. It was
never true, legend notwithstanding, that
the Legion accepted hunted criminals
(though it did not enquire thoroughly
into aliases, provided an applicant did
not too closely resemble a wanted-man
picture sent out by Interpol), but since
the Algerian war took a nasty turn it has
been converting toughs into systematic
torturers.
Still, the Legion is probably no worse
today than when it served in Napoleon
Ill’s disastrous Mexican expedition or in
the suppression of the Riffs. What has
changed is the psychological warfare
techniques of oppressed colonial peoples:
they have learned that an imperialist
enemy can be discredited with the help
of its repentant mercenaries. The Legion
has always had deserters, and more than
regular armies, because any man rea-
lises within a few months that the girl
that ditched him is not worth five years’
hell or even five years’ boredom in the
desert. Given the chance (as, for in-
stance, when a troopship returning from
Indo-China passes slowly through the


Suez Canal) many legionnaires go miss-
ing; that is why comrades beat up desert-
ers, who have not only disobeyed autho-
rity but criticised, implicitly, those that
stayed behind. The Indo-Chinese first,
then the Egyptians, and finally the Alge-
rians most acutely, realised that these de-
serters were an invaluable propaganda
instrument. They would swear that the
Legion was guilty of the worst crimes
and then, their fare paid back home,
were effective critics of the colonial war.
The method worked very well in Italy
and West Germany, and the publicity
given these affairs, with nationalist
money, was such that women began to
think the legionnaire smelt less of desert
sand than Arab blood.
In truth, he smelt no worse than any
of the other parties in the Algerian cock-
pit, or than the Indian Gurkha mercen-
aries who now police the Congo on be-
half of the Linked Nations. But the unit
seems doomed to disappear with im-
perialism, whose instrument it was. It
did not arise, as is sometimes alleged,
from the “international brigades” of the
French Revolution (mainly anti-English
Irishmen); they were disbanded by the
Restoration and there was a long gap
before the bourgeois monarchy began re-
cruiting foreign mercenaries again. This
time, the object was colonial repression
and although the Legion has notable ser-
vice records in two world wars these
were incidents in its imperial career from
Mexico to Indo-China. The French will
be reluctant to part with these “glorious
troops”, but they will seem an anachro-
nism as the implications of the end of
imperialism are fully realised. It is hard
to imagine a world without a Foreign
Legion; Franco’s pale imitation lacks the
required prestige and will sooner or later
lose its North African bases, the enclaves
that Morocco is agitating for. Since
India’s Gurkha regiments (in reality the
world's biggest foreign mercenary corps)
will remain closed to other races, the
most likely employer seems to be the
United Nations, which is just now gain-
ing wide experience of mercenary war-
fare in the Congo where Baluba tribes-
men serve as local-color extras for skir-
mishes between Mr Tshombe’s ex-
Foreign Legionnaires and Mr Nehru’s
Nepalese employees.
“No. I want to play like Elvis Presley and he wants to play like Segovia."
THE AWFUL PRESS
A CONGRESS NOT COVERED
Problems for 600,000 students, 1,200,000 parents
By CRITIC
IT'or some months two matters of in-
tense public interest have been aired
spasmodically in Australia’s metropolitan
newspapers. The subjects were West
New Guinea (Eastern New Guinea and
the Foot report have had comparatively
little mention), and Education. Neither
has been a running story. Each has de-
pended on special articles, letters to
editors, politicians’ statements, experts’
dire warnings and similar occasional
fillips. But both matters have remained
alive because they are too vital to be
smothered.
The week before last Sir Garfield Bar-
wick gave the New Guinea story a solid
boost, and the ANZAAS Congress in Syd-
ney should have achieved as much for
Education. For the first time in 12
months, most of the nation’s leaders in
education were gathered in discourse, and
in one instance five of the elect took part
in a symposium on secondary education,
which, as one speaker pointed out, af-
fects 600,000 student:, at present —and
their 1,200,000 parents, totalling around
one-fifth of the population.
Here, one might have thought, was an
opportunity for something more than the
average leader page article, the odd
editorial and the earnest letter, all with
the local angle predominant. At one
swoop, readers could be given a true
conception of the ational educators’
problems, and their proposed solution.
No such thing happened. But before
criticising the Press for that, one might
state from experience that the ANZAAS
Congress is a thorough mess for a
journalist to cover. It is a mess of riches,
with an abundance of possible stories in
the gatherings of top men and women
in up to a score of the sciences. A larger
team than any newspaper could spare
would be required to do it justice. The
scientists are never satisfied with the
standard of reporting, nor are they ever
likely to be until someone explains the
physical difficulties to them, in layman's
language, as they say.
However, on this occasion their dis-
satisfaction could be justified. The morn-
ing newspapers in the Congress city
usually give it the most coverage, and
interstate the stories grow smaller. The
Sydney Morning Herald began the week
with a typical editorial, from which the
following quote are disjointed fragments:
“The public needs, and indeed is only
too willing, to be informed. If the public
is ill-informed about the work, the
achievements and the plans of the scien-
tists, fault is to a considerabie extent
that of the scientists themselves. It is
most difficult, admitted!) —though it is
not impossible— to inform the layman
about events in the scientific world with-
out entangling him in a thicket of tech-
nicalities.”
Well, there was one group of scientists
at the Congress whose discussion was
quite easy for the layman to understand,
but the SMH appears to hav overlooked
them. On Wednesday last week, after
these gentlemen’s Secondary Education
Symposium, the newspaper published
only half a page of stories from the
Congress, including none about Educa-
tion. It gave a page or so to Sir Garfield,
and ample space to the Betting Inquiry,
and the hearing for Sydney’s third TV
licence. The Telegraph in Sydney did
about the same, but no better.
The odd feature is that either news-
paper could have covered the Symposium
from the office. It was on television,
during the afternoon. On the ABC
channel, jammed between the Women’s
Session and Kindergarten Playtime. That
made it available to everyone but work-
ing women and nearly all male parents.
• Cont’d page 22


r
B
I
i
SHIP
*
a * / 4 1 f
. .
MW
8 I
J
V
GOOD
REASONS WHY
I ALWAYS USE
STEEL
PIPE!
ON MY 1
• No other pipe has greater strength. Steel pipe is not
fragile or susceptible to damage by stock or fire, so can be
laid above ground, saving cost of trenching. It also with-
stands far greater pressures and that's important, too.
• Steel pipe lasts longer. Steel pipe doesn't deteriorate in
sunlight or with exposure, is not damaged by termites or
rodents. Its inherent strength enables it to withstand all
sorts of external impacts undamaged.
• Steel pipe costs less. On account of its much longer life
and comparatively low initial cost, I have found steel pipe a
far more economical buy than any other type of pipe-and
I've tried them all.
• Steel pipe is easy to instal, handle or store. Steel pipe,
being so sturdy can be surface-laid, then dismantled and
relaid in a new location or stored without risk of damage
in handling.
• Steel pipe has so many uses. Its inbuilt strength and rigidity permit a wide
variety of uses, not practical for other fragile or flexible types of pipe, such
as vertical and overhead installations. That's why I say, 'Give me steel pips
every time."
FOR GREATER STRENGTH . . . LONGER LIFE . . . EXTRA VALUE - INSIST ON STEEL PIPE
STEWARTS and LLOYDS (Distributors) PTY. LIMITED
BRANCHES: All Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong,
Geelong, Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs. AGENCIES: Cairns, Mackay, Kalgcorhe.
*5 S A . 3.6i1k


Victoria is the fisherman’s
paradise. Rivers, mountain
streams, lakes and a thousand
miles of coastline . . . flathead,
cod, trout, whiting, snapper,
barracouta, mullet and the
great southern bream . . . Vic-
toria, for the family holiday at
its best . . . the place to start
a fish story.
For further information about
these Victorian Holiday Resorts
post this coupon.
rgwm
THE VICTORIAN GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAUX
276 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
78 ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE
28 AAARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
32 KING WILLIAM ST., ADELAIDE
m
Evjgi
?:W: \
■
~ &
mm a s SB =
£- ;
Please send me detailed information
about
NAME
ADDRESS
3101 B
Was it worth viewing, or reporting?
One can only offer a brief summary
of one speaker’s address and leave the
judgment to you. The speaker was Dr
W. D. Neal of the Department of
Education. University of WA, and others
to follow him were W. H. Frederick
University of Melbourne, Dr H. S.
Wyndham, Director General of Educa-
tion, NSW, Dr H. G. Watkin, Depart-
ment of Education, Queensland, and
Professor J. L. Mackie, University of
Sydney, chairman.
A matter of vital statistics
T\r Neal began with some vital statis-
tics. The secondary school population
had increased from 300,000 to 600.000
during tf past decade and would con-
tinue to increase by about 25,000
students a year for some years.
He said the number of Ist Year
students staying to age 15 had also
doubled during the decade, and the pro-
portion staying to age 17 had trebled.
This, he remarked, w'as largely the
result ot increasing employment oppor-
tunities than of any strong belief that
education was good, of itself.
Dr Neal said that one of the real and
increasing problems was that of the
"Typical Flanders, always thinking of
your stomach.”
group of students who were under-
achieving in the secondary schools.
Turning to the changes in the indi-
vidual, he remarked that uncertainty,
blurred values and the spotlight of pub-
licity on adolescents had all affected
them, and it was much to their credit
that the majority should emerge in such
good shape.
He said surveys had shown that physic-
ally, adolescents were maturing more
rapidly, and intellectually they were
coming to the secondary schools with
better preparation. Some of their topics
of conversation were remarkable in their
depth and interest. Adolescents were now
looking for meaning, and that was an
important feature of intellectual develop-
ment.
Dr Neal spoke of conflicts, of the
pressure to grow up quickly and also to
remain at school longer, of the consider-
able cultural pressures, including teenage
credit, which widened the gap between
adolescents at school and at work. And
he suggested that the considerations of
the pupils themselves should form a
major part of any detailed specifications
for their education.
In passing, Dr Neal mentioned one of
the main concerns and divisions in educ-
ational theory at present, the mass ad-
vancement of pupils in age groups,
rather than by selective ability, and the
trend to general purpose schools.
The chairman, Professor Mackie, had
previously referred to this in a brief
opening address, and it was clear that he
and Dr Neal were at odds in the matter.
Professor Mackie said a bias against the
more intellectual forms ot education was
discernible in the Wyndham Report, and
indicated that he was agin it, feeling that
the progression of age groups was a
frustration to the bright pupil.
Missing a unique opportunity
So it was fairly clear, within the first
half hour of the Symposium, that
matters which could affect the secondary
school education of every child in Aus-
tralia would be discussed at length,
giving parents a unique opportunity to
understand the problems and give them
some informed thought. But by courtesy
of the Press, they w'ere denied this...
and by courtesy of the ABC only a num-
ber of their wives were granted it, in
Sydney, if they coui 1 tear themselves
away from the frothier attractions of
commercial television, radio, and the
shops. One sees no sign that the film of
the Symposium addresses is to be pro-
grammed in the other cities.
Admittedly, in keeping with Dr Neal’s
idea, the secondary school pupils, or
some fraction of them, could have seen
the broadcast and given deeper thought
to those “considerations of their own”.
Apart from that small gain, the
scientists in education had wasted their
breath if informing the public had been
any part of their aim, or hope. And in
this instance the fault had not been “to
a considerable extent that of the scien-
tists themselves”.


Around Melbourne
ST KILDA RD-OR DISNEYLAND MODERN
fT.ms is not easy to report—the blas-
phemous thought has arisen: “Is
St Kilda Road finished?” Don’t you
see, whatever else might have been
lacking in Melbourne we always had
the comforting thought that St Kilda
Road was the finest thoroughfare in
the world. Admittedly there were one
or two other thoroughfares in the
world to rival it, but they too were in
Melbourne —Collins Street and Alex-
andra Avenue. Over the years there
had been endless streams of fine com-
ments from our visitors. Every mem-
ber of the Royal Family, including the
Duke of Gloucester and the Queen
Mother, had commented most favor-
ably on our St Kilda Road.
In Melbourne we always do our
finest things in credit squeezes. As
you know we had singular credit
squeezes in 1930 and 1893. In 1930
we built the Yarra Boulevard, perhaps
the fourth finest thoroughfare in the
world. In the ’nineties the surburban
councils provided relief work and
many of the three-chain arterial roads
were converted into boulevards with
three roadways and St Kilda Road got
the full treatment. It became the
home for the rich and the two-broug-
ham families, but even in 1900 there
were some hideous sub-standard build-
ings and the south bank of the Yarra
was a repository for deadbeats and
larrikins. Yet, as so often happens,
the untidyness was cleared away for a
Royal Tour. The visit of the Duke
and Duchess of York in 1901 com-
pleted St Kilda Road and all was per-
fect for the new capital of the Com-
monwealth of Australia.
The perfection lasted until after the
Second World War and then the great
change began. The ornate late Vic-
torian manors came down and up
went the flats. Soon even the flats be-
came too costly. The advertising
agencies, public relations firms and
architects moved in. The councils had
to restrain the business houses from
putting out billboards and advertising
signs. Chevron had a sign out on the
nature strip: DRIVE IN BOTTLE
DEPARTMENT COLD BEER.
Now St Kilda Road has a type of
architecture which for range and
shocking power could only be com-
pared to Surfers’ Paradise. One critic
described St Kilda Road architecture
as Disneyland Modern. This is hardly
accurate but it is odd to see one
building which was designed like a
Greek temple and a few doors from it
to come across the Racing Adminis-
tration Building called “Racing
Centre.” It is made of glass and stone
with red ochre panels. It is best seen
through very dark glasses.
And so it goes on. The newest
addition will be British Petroleum’s 24
storey oil palace going up at the
corner of St Kilda Road and Albert
Street vying with the dear-old Vic-
torian charm of terraced houses not
far away.
So you see the road has changed
vastly, and some think the change is
beyond repair. Even some of the trees
have been prolonged beyond their
useful life. There has been criticism
in Melbourne City Council and criti-
cism in the letter columns of all the
newspapers but the unkindest cut of
all was a letter to “The Age” from
N. R. MacGregor (Caulfield South).
He was replying to Melbourne’s most
prolific letter writer, Harold de
Marigny, and he said:
“The present St Kilda Road, with
its narrow ribbons of nature strips, so
often a dust bowl during the dry
seasons, its near industrialisation, its
garish buildings, its diminishing trees
and its cumbersome noise-shattering
trams, rob it of any claim of ever be-
coming ‘a shining monument to the
architectural ingenuity of Melbourne.’
A brief look at world thoroughfares
reveals many more with superior
claims to St Kilda Road.”
Last week right here in Melbourne
there was the first general meeting of
the Noise Abatment Society. The
Society was formed in November last
year and the president is a Melbourne
lawyer, Mr Harold Luth. He is very
dedicated about the whole thing and
in his anti-noise fight he has written
to such people as Mr Menzies and
President De Gaulle. Mr Menzies told
him noise was a State matter and
President De Gaulle told him his Gov-
ernment was fighting noise and had
outlawed honking car horns. The
General could have added perhaps
that noisy machine guns and plastic
bombs also were outlawed.
Sixty people including a fine sprink-
ling of doctors, architects, pyscholo-
gists and engineers attended last
week’s meeting. Dr R. H. Donald, an
ear, nose and throat specialist was one
of five speakers. He talked of the
dangers of noise and these noises were
high on his “particularly irritating”
list:
111-fitting car exhausts. Trams and
trains at night. Trains whistling at
crossings. Screeching car brakes.
Transistor radios. Barking dogs and
screeching birds. Neighbors who mow
their lawn or wash their cars early on
Sunday morning. The nightmare of
suburbia—rattling milk bottles.
The society has taken as its ideal,
Memphis, Tennessee “America’s
quietest city and its cleanest.” Accord-
ing to the results of a survey from
Mr Lutfi which were published in the
Medical Journal of Australia, the
noise abatement campaign in
Memphis began in 1936. Rolf Millett,
a Memphis newspaperman, lived next
door to a family with a teenage daugh-
ter whose boy friend called for her in
a car and leaned on the horn until
she came out. Millett wrote a series
of editorials against such unnecessary
hornblowing. There were other stories
on racing motors, shrieking whistles,
radios and jukeboxes.
So the whole thing grew and by
1938 Memphis had a law banning
“any unreasonably loud, disturbing
and unnecessary noise.” From that
time on Memphis was quieter and
public utilities even included “quiet”
cards with their customers’ accounts.
This could be a good idea for Mel-
bourne, particularly for those
moments when one first sees telephone
and electricity accounts.
So Melbourne now is hot on the
trail of Memphis. A Noise Abatment
Week is being planned for Victoria
next year. “Quiet please” will be the
slogan and the society will ask the
Premier, Mr Bolte to challenge
Attorney-Generals in all States to join
in with the anti-noise campaign.
The Society’s problems in Mel-
bourne are huge, from the screeching
cicadas which were so bitterly
attacked by letter writers last year, to
burglar alarms, and cracking bridges.
A prime example of the problem is
the city seismological observatory
which this month moved to Heales-
ville, 40 miles out of town.
BATMAN


OVERSEAS
MEN OF
THE
VIETCONG
Avoiding the enemy
when strong; hitting
him when he's weak
From DENNIS BLOODWORTH in
Saigon
|n a bloodstained diary found on the
body of a Vietcong (Communist)
terrorist killed in battle in K.ien Tuong
Province, South Vietnam, the following
was written in pencil: “North Vietnam is
strong. It has become the solid base for
the revolution in the South”.
Like most of the other entries in the
diary, the words had a parrot-like sound,
as if the writer were taking lecture
notes. In tact, most Vietcong diaries
are little more than day-to-day records
of lectures given by the Chi 80, or
political commissars, attached to every
Communist battalion.
The Chi Bo constantly hammer at the
theme that Communist North Vietnam
is solidly backing the guerrillas Their
purpose is to keep up the morale of their
barefooted army The average Vietcong
leads a life of incredible hardship. Only
a few elite units are lucky enough to
live in semi-permanent camps in the
deep brush of the Mekong delta, or in
forest clearings in the High Plateau.
Most of the 24,000 armed terrorists are
constantly on the move.
Their basic ration is rice and fish
sauce. Hence the pathetic bundles of
calcium and vitamin-complex ampoules
(for intravenous injection) which are
often found in Vietcong hideouts.
Discipline in Communist units is ruth-
less, and punishments severe. If the
terrorist corps d’elite became soft, it
would soon collapse under the repeated
hammer-blows of the South Vietnamese
Army, now heavily reinforced with
American advisers and equipment. But
of collapse there is no sign. Despite the
Government’s claim to have killed,
captured and wounded 10,200 terrorists
in the first five months of this year, the
Communist hard core remains intact.
But discipline alone is not enough.
The Communist strategists are also care-
ful never to commit large units to battle,
unless they are confident of winning. In
this, they are following the teaching of
their chief adviser, General Vo Nguyen
Giap, the victor of Dien Bien Phu, and
now the Commander-in-Chief of North
Vietnam’s army In his handbook for
guerrillas, “People’s War, Peope's
Army”, General Giap lays down the
guiding principle:
“To avoid the enemy when he is
stronger, to attack him when he is
weaker, now scattering, now regroup-
ing”. A South Vietnamese staff officer
(himself an ex-guerrilla) explains that the
key to Vietcong tactics is “correct con-
centration and correct dispersal” in
other words, the use of the right number
of men for each objective.
In the last six years, the Vietcong have
massed in battalion strength only three
times to capture major objectives. Nowa-
days, the “tactical unit” of the Vietcong
regulars is a company, of 50 to 80 men.
By “correct dispersal”, the Vietcong
have kept their forces intact. But they
are now faced with the detection of their
bases and camps by American heli-
copters and photo-reconnaissance planes.
To meet this threat, they have intensified
their system of camouflage and under-
ground tunnels, developed to a fine art
during the war against the French.
Since the beginning of the Indo-China
w ; ar in 1947, the guerrillas have been
tunnelling deep into the soil of the
Mekong plain. One network of tunnels
found recently in a Communist base
stretched for two to three miles under
the scrub. It included a complete under-
ground complex of storerooms, work-
shops and barracks. Government patrols
now carry steel rods, to probe the earth
for the Communist burrows. Even close
up it is difficult to spot the entrance
to a Vietcong tunnel, because the trap-
doors are covered with turf or shrubs.
For personal camouflage, each man
wears a net on his wicker-work “helmet”,
as well as a bamboo framework on his
back, through which leaves or rice straw
can be threaded. On the march, the
terrorists change the foliage on their
helmets and packs, as they move from
dark green jungle to light-colored scrub,
or back again. Thus, large groups can
move by day, and often escape detection
from the air.
Between October, 1961, and July this
year, the estimated total of armed terro-
rists has increased by 4000. The Govern-
ment claims that the majority are reluct-
ant Communists, kept in the terrorist
ranks by threats to their families, while
others are merely fugitives from military
conscription. But it is obvious that many
thousands of men cannot be kept in the
maquis against their will
Most of the terrorists are fighting
against the Government because they
believe fanatically in a cause. This is
especially true of the Vietcong regular
battalions and “autonomous units”.
Many of these men have been in the
guerrilla ranks for 10 or 15 years. They
are the remnants of the thousands of
Vietnamese, Northern and Southern,
who took up arms against the French,
and have decided to continue the fight
against President Diem and the Ameri-
cans.
But the mass of the 13,500 regular
troops and the 11,500 “regional troops”
are young peasants who have proved
themselves tough enough, politically and
physically, to join the terrorist army.
The testing-ground for the Communist
militant is the regional unit, which is
recruited directly from the villages.
Only after months of loyal service as
a “regional” (“Dia Phuong-Quan”) is a
man promoted to a hard-core Vietcong
unit. The regionals operate in small
groups as a mobile screen for the regular
battalions. They are also the final link
between the Communist general staff and
the villages.
“Regionals” move only within their
own province, and are the principal
source of intelligence, money and
supplies for the regular units.
The 11,500 regional troops are the
true guerrillas. Not for them the bold
assaults, the spectacular ambushes which
keep up the morale of the regular units.
Their weapons are not the shiny
American automatic rifles and machine
guns captured from the security forces.
They must make do with old rifles,
dating from the Indo-China war.
The regional terrorist has no cloth
bandoliers or wicker helmet Barefooted,
and clothed in a ragged black tunic and
trousers, he is indistinguishable from
any other young peasant. Only his faith
sets him apart. The commissars have
taught him the slogan: “In the North-
prosperity and peace; in the South —a
victorious struggle for freedom”. He
believes in this to the point that he will
die for it.


I*2
m
r
"tW if •■ttfUr.
I
m
Not a big office, but it’s as pleasant as a
Spring morning 365 days a year. That’s
because an economical Carrier air con-
ditioning unit controls the temperature,
keeps the humidity just right. It will sur-
prise you how little the benefits of air
conditioning would cost you in your office.
Find out how little it costs to
raise office efficiency by 20%
YOU’LL GET —AND HOLD—THE BEST
EMPLOYEES if your office is air condi-
tioned. Because the office conditions
are so good—never hot and humid,
never chilly in Winter—you’ll find they
tire less easily, make fewer mistakes.
American experience shows air condi-
tioning raises efficiency 20% or more.
AIR CONDITIONING ISN’T JUST SOME-
THING FOR THE GIANTS. A more com-
fortable atmosphere, harder working
staff, less absence from hay fever or
sudden colds—now the small office can
have these, too. Carrier can air condi-
tion the small office as economically
as the large! Hire purchase and leasing
terms are available with subsequent tax
benefits. Decide now to make this
investment —it will pay for itself over
and over in better, more efficient work.
“OUR OFFICES ARE NEAR THE RAILWAY,”
a factory manager writes, “and we
were spending a fortune on cleaning
and redecorating. We air conditioned
the offices easily and cheaply and
general morale has never been higher.
I feel a lot better at the end of the
day myself, too.”
PRIVATE SECRETARY: “I’d much rather
work in an air conditioned office.
You’re more comfortable because the
heat and the humidity of Summer
vanishes. And so does the cold of
Winter. It’s like having a pleasant
Spring day all year long.”
WHAT TO DO. Just post the coupon
below. Absolutely free and without
obligation we’ll send you further details
or an engineer will call to quote on air
conditioning your office. It is impor-
tant you get expert advice at the start,
if time and money are to be saved. By
consulting C trrier, you are certain of
the best advice, as Carrier is the world’s
leader in air conditioning—specialising
in the whole field from giant installa-
tions in new buildings to economical
air conditioners for your own home.
WHAT AIR CONDITIONING
CAN DO FOR YOUR BUSINESS.
HAIRDRESSERS, BEAUTY PAR-
LOURS — -Attracts new, better
customers. Staff works better,
no Summer slump.
DRESS SHOPS, SHOE SHOPS,
DEPARTMENT STORES — More
customers come in, stay longer.
Filtered air keeps merchandise
cleaner.
HOTELS, RESTAURANTS
Guests have heartier appetites.
Adds prestige. Stimulates busi-
ness all through the day.
MOTELS, APARTMENT BUILD-
INGS — More comfortable liv-
ing. Easier to let inside rooms.
Cleaning, redecorating costs
down.
consult
world's leader in air conditioning
BRISBANE • SYDNEY . MELBOURNE . ADELAIDE • PERTH
DON’T EVEN DICTATE A LETTER! Ask your secretary to
clip this coupon and send it off. NOW IS THE TIME! Install
cur conditioning before Summer starts and enjoy the
benefits immediately! You get the best deal, the best service
sow. CA.IOA.FP
TO: CARRIER AIR CONDITIONING PTY. LTD.
36-40 Bourke St., East Sydney. ’Phone 35 3211
□ Please send me further details of air conditioning equipment,
explaining how it can be installed with maximum tax relief.
□ I would like an expert to call free and without obligation.
NAME
ADDRESS
TYPE OF BUSINESS


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKSON &
-OSUI.LtVAN
PTY. LTD
/.'toe BWgf J
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
UK AI ‘ OKl'’ ICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
Ana at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENV' LOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS ’: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
‘JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented Ore Con-
centrator has proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient, simple and
inexpensive to operate. Send for
illustrated Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
“Everlasting-” Boiler Blow off Valves, Rapid
Magnetising Machines, George Ellison
Switch Gear. Blasting Mats, Explosives,
Log Splitting Guns, etc. Makers of Classi-
fiers, Water Filters, Steam Valves, etc.
- HELP
LEGACY
v all the year round.
Donations: 169 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney. BAA 2001. ®
Arms and America—1
GUNS
And
BUTTER
From NORA BELOFF
(First of a series of three articles.)
TAespite savage criticism of the Ken-
nedy Administration’s conduct of the
nation’s business, rising to new peaks as
the mid-term season approaches, there
is one major election pledge honored by
the President which has provoked ab-
solutely no political opposition: the rapid
expansion of American military power.
The boundless popularity, among all
classes and both parties, of a high de-
fence budget and a big military establish-
ment, is one of the constants in con-
temporary America.
It has no parallel this side of the
Atlantic, where political pressures on
government are all the other way, favor-
ing less reliance on arms and more East-
West conciliation (Mr Macmillan ap-
plauded for bridge-building with Moscow,
General de Gaulle running into political
storms over his projected nuclear strike-
force). And in Europe an effective minor-
ity goes even further in this direction,
by demanding unilateral disarmament
(Britain) or the rupture of the Western
alliance (neutralists and Communists on
the Continent.
In the United States, on the other
hand although the present Administra-
tion has boosted military spending within
a single year by the total Britain or
France spends on an entire defence
budget its only effective critics are those
demanding still more and bigger weapons
or denouncing the Government for “ap-
peasement”; and the only minorities with
real impact are those which outbid them
in belaboring the President or his prede*
cessor for being “soft” on Communism.
During a seven-month transatlantic
visit I was constantly aware of this start-
ling difference in attitude. After report-
ing international affairs for so many years
I could not of course accept Soviet
charges of American “warmongering.”
I found none the less that the average
American was enjoying the arms race,
proud of his country’s technical and
scientific achievements and, far from
wilting under the strain, people were
wondering not whether the US could
afford to arm but whether it could afford
to disarm.
Here, indeed, is the striking contrast
which appears between the Soviet and
American predicaments. The Russians
butter and Mr Khrushchev has recently
still have to choose between guns and
reminded them that the choice will be
guns.
But in the US people are in the habit
of expecting guns and butter (higher de-
fence spending, increased employment
and better incomes) or neither (retrench-
ment, leading to lay-offs, with the usual
downturn of business). The analogy, of
course, can no longer be taken literally:
in modern America even a recession
would not produce dry bread, since farm
surpluses have reached the point where
the Government freely distributes butter
to people on relief.
The link between high defence spend-
ing and prosperity goes as far back as
most Americans can remember. Despite
Roosevelt’s New Deal emergency
measures, America completely emerged
from the slump of the thirties only in
the boom of the Second World War. The
slight post-war recession was put right by
what I heard described, both in Cali-
fornia and Ohio, as “the good years of
Korea” (the Korean War: 1950 to 1953).
The slack in the aircraft business after
the Korean War was partly overcome by
the switch to missiles. The 1959-1960
doldrums were put right last summer with
what Wall Street called “the Berlin
bounce.”
Even so the alleged parsimony and
conservatism of the Republican defence
record became the central and most
popular issue in President Kennedy’s
election campaign, and the current mili-
tary budget will raise the annual outlay
by no less than SIO,OOO million above
the 1960 budget.
The expansion has been both in con-
ventional and nuclear weapons. Combat-
ready division are up from 11 to 16 and
the 158,000 reservists called up during
last summer’s Berlin emergency have
been disbanded only because there has
been a larger recruitment in the regular
strength. European bases have been en-


larged and are ready to receive and
equip two additional di fisions. Higher
budgets are promised for at least two
years to come.
In missiles, the final product takes
longer to deliver. But the Pentagon has
allowed it be known that it now has in
place some 51 Atlas and nine Titan mis-
siles and it expects to have 540 ICBM’s
by the end of 1963 and 1,028 (including
800 Minutemen) by the year after. Each
of these can deliver thermonuclear war-
heads anywhere in the Soviet Union or
China. Thus, in an era of economic un-
certainty, the one reliable factor is that
military outlay will go on getting bigger.
How much for reliance?
HThere is no exact yardstick by which to
-*• measure the extent to which the
American economy has come to rely
upon the $50,000 million defence budget,
representing well over half the public
expenditures and almost a tenth of the
national income. There are now some
2,500,000 men under arms and about an-
other million civilians employed by the
Defence Department. The munitions
industry employs another couple of
million, but there is no precise way of
telling how many millions more owe all,
or part, of their income to providing
goods and services for this nucleus.
As a report this year of the US
Disarmament and Control Agency
showed, certain industries and certain
regions are now overwhelmingly depen-
dent on defence. Ninety-five per cent, of
the aircraft and missile business. 60 per
cent, of ship building and 40 per cent, of
the radio and communications industry
are taken up by defence orders. The
report noted that five States—Kanas,
Washington, New Mexico, California and
Connecticut—are dependent on defence
for between a quarter and a third of
their industrial employment. Other States
—Alaska, Hawaii, District of Columbia
and Virginia—obtain between 10 and 20
per cent, of their income from direct
payments by the Defence Department
to their military and civilian employees
in wages and allowances.
The relatively high living standards of
the skilled defence workers —and an
increasing proportion are very skilled
indeed—generate big opportunities for
jobs in the building, servicing and re-
creation trades. Anyone who has visited
California, Arizona or Colorado, where
the new electronic industries are concen-
trated, will have seen the contagious
effects of high spending.
There is, of course, the reverse side.
When the military close a plant or shift
orders, ripples of disaster, resulting from
the employment casualties, engulf whole
cities. As in other American industries
there are munition plants where workers
can still be laid off with no more than
two days’ notice or two days’ pay.
For this reason labor is probably the
biggest single pressure group urging
Congress to fight defence cuts. Wherever
such cuts are made, Congressional mail
shows a constant, stream of letters from
workers worried about their jobs.
The new arms industries have been
cencentrating on the Eastern and Western
seaboards, at the expense of the old
industrial strongholds of the Middle
West. Cleveland, for instance, has been
in the economic doldrums for several
years, although even now it has been
estimated that as much as 18 per cent,
of its employment is directly or indirectly
related to armaments. In the last few
years it has been among many old centres
of heavy industry which have experienced
the tragic shock of discovering that, w'ith
the introduction of new plants and new
automation devices production and gen-
eral prosperity can go up without un-
employment going down. Nothing could
have gone further towards destroying
confidence in the basic precept of Ameri-
can free enterprise economy.
I recall the wistful comment of a young
member of the “Committee for a Sane
Nuclear Policy” in Cleveland who told
me his group had got off to a bad start
when their initial disarmament campaign
happened to coincide with the joyful
news of the reopening of the Cadillac
tank plant and the building of the now
completed new rifle factory in the city
outskirts —a small ray of light in the
long dark tunnel of unemployment.
Maintaining public and private demands
HThe report of the Disarmament Agency
which I quoted above also con-
cludes that the US economy is not ne-
cessarily imperilled by disarmament: “If
we do handle well the aggregate demand
problem (i.e., maintain public and private
demand at a level at which it can utilise
the resources being released by the re-
ductions in the defence programmes),
disarmament affords an unmatched op-
portunity for satisfying our most pressing
needs, if the necessary measures are pre-
pared in time.”
This, as President Roosevelt used to
say, is “a very if-y” question; and it is
here, of course, that the problem spills
over from economics into politics. For
the real difficulty is that non-warlike
alternatives to high federal spending
(whether financed by high taxation or by
budget deficits) would be totally unac-
ceptable to this Congress, most of whose
members, as Walter Lippmann once ob-
served, have not yet caught up with
Keynes.
The Defence Department has recently
installed a special division to handle
regions damaged by loss of defence con-
tracts. But knowing that it would not
get funds for reconversion to non-mili-
tary uses, it proposes to find other de-
fence purposes for men and resources.
Two partially military enterprises still
commended themselves on patriotic and
cold war grounds: atomic energy and
space. Both can be defended as having
manifest value in keeping America
strong. But there is growing pressure,
notably from the Strategic Air Command
and its friends, to place more of the
space effort under military management.
General Thomas Power, Commander-
in-Chief of the Strategic Air Command,
publicly claimed, even before the latest
Soviet achievements, that the develop-
ment of military manned spacecraft is
“a vitally important and urgent national
project” and that SAC must add space-
craft to its arsenal of bombs and missiles
if it is to remain “the free world's most
powerful force for peace with honor.”
Hopes for Titan 111
rr H E Administration itself is known to
be dubious of the military usefulness
of the space race, but, in answer to a
Congressional outburst over the latest
Soviet orbitings, the Secretary of De-
fence, Mr McNamara, has now given the
reassuring news that the new American
rocket, Titan 111, now in process of
development, will have three times the
thrust generated by the latest Soviet
booster.
And in his Press conference last Wed-
nesday, President Kennedy pointed out
that this year he had submitted a space
budget which was greater than the com-
bined space budgets of the previous eight
years. He aso said that the US is currently
spending “for military purposes in space”
three times as much as in 1960. The
“Apollo project” for beating the Russians
to the moon, alone, is expected to cost
$20,000 million. The cost has never
been challenged whereas the case for
allowing the Government to pay 1 per
cent, of that figure to buy United Nations
Bonds created a major political rumpus.
All the same, there is one aspect of
defence spending where the strain, in
the President’s own view, is excessive.
The cost of preserving America’s world-
wide defence commitments, particularly
the lavish establishment in Europe, has
been a major cause of the outflow of
gold and foreign currency, now threat-
ening the stability of the dollar.
Urging a fairer share of the defence
burden between the allies, the President
last month expressed satisfaction that the
cost of keeping the troops in Germany
itself were “balanced off” by massive
German purchases of American arms,
whereas the same was not true of the
costs of keeping US forces in other parts
of Europe.
NEXT WEEK
• The military-industrial complex.


FORUM
STATE AID
"We shouldn't pander to anti-Cathalic paranoiacs "
By FRANK KNOPFELMACHER
Y'HE present discussion on State support for denominational schools is
marked by dearth of relevant arguments. Both sides support their
claims hi) propositions which are either dubious or unconnected with those
considerations which prompt, and ought to prompt, governments to adopt
a line of action. In this article I propose that the prime consideration
ought to be the national interest, that is, whatever is conducive to Austra-
lia s economic and political power within the framework of our pluralist
democratic system.
The proponents of State Aid—over-
whelmingly though not exclusively Cath-
olics—support their claims by some or
all of the following propositions: (1) It
is the natural right of parents to choose
the education of their children. (2) The
UN charter guarantees this right. (3)
The State system is maintained in part
by the Catholic tax-payer, who is en-
titled to obtain some benefit from public
funds for his own system. (4) Australia
is a pluralist society and the rights of
minorities to maintain their individual
sjab-cultures should be maximised. (5)
The State system produces immoralists
and atheists (this view is now rarely put
forward).
The opponents of State Aid —usually
some secularists and most active protest-
ant churchmen —adduce some or all of
the following reasons: (1) Catholic
schools are divisive and they educate
authoritarians and fascists. (2) State
support for Catholic schools violates the
principle of State-church separation. (3)
The demand is as unreasonable as a
demand for other separate services, say,
fire-brigades would be, if it were made.
(4) If churches are given State Aid to
run schools why should it be withheld
from political parties? (6) Education
should be value-free and neutral, so as
to prepare the adult person for a free
and unbiased choice of values.
Among the arguments of the propon-
ents only (4) —the pluralist argument—
is generally acceptable. The others de-
pend either on controversial philosophi-
cal doctrines (e.g., the specifically Catho-
lic notion of the natural law and its
application to parental rights) or on
somewhat strained interpretations of
general principles. Thus it is by no means
obvious that specific groups of tax-payers
are entitled to veto or direct the manner
in which a duly elected government al-
locates funds. One might as well argue
that a person is entitled to special finan-
cial consideration if a party other than
the one for which he voted is elected
to form a government. The UN Charter
guarantees the right of parents to select
for their children the education of their
choice, but it does not put governments
under an obligation to finance private
schools.
It can be plausibly argued that by
merely tolerating private schools the
Australian government satisfies the re-
quirements of the Charter. In saying
all this I do not wish to belittle the
Catholic case. Their arguments are,
however, inconclusive unless one accepts
as valid certain principles, which they
themselves sincerely hold to be true, but
which are not shared by many non-
Catholics. For those who do not share
these principles it is sufficient to assume
that Catholics are directed by the hier-
archy to maintain their schools in order
to consolidate and perpetuate the influ-
ence of the Church. This is perfectly
legitimate. It is also perfectly legitimate
to use ideological devices and political
pressure to make the financial situation
easier and to obtain public money. The
fact that the Catholic case is stated in
terms of rationalisations which may ob-
scure underlying institutional interests
does not detract from the sincerity with
which these rationalisations are put for-
ward.
The arguments of the opponents are
much weaker and much more incoherent.
There is no evidence that Catholic schools
are divisive in the sense of inducing sec-
tional or racial hatred. If they were to
achieve what Catholic educational elites
want them to achieve, they would pro-
duce devout Catholics who are also very
patriotic, racially tolerant and democratic
Australians. In practice their products
do not seem to differ very much from
those of the State schools. It is true
that the Catholic system, if properly run,
may become an obstacle to cultural uni-
formity, yet who except an authoritarian
leveller wants such a monstrously dull
thing? If the Catholic system does indeed
produce fascists and anti-democratic
authoritarians, Australian democracy
must have been in grave peril for a long
time in view of the predominance of
Catholic politicians and voters, ex-pupils
of Catholic schools, in one of the two
major political parties, which has fre-
quently governed our States and the
Commonwealth. The notion that Cath-
olic education produces a thing called
“an authoritarian personality” filled with
murderous and aggressive prejudices is
a myth based on a di:credited psychol-
ogical theory which maintains its hold
among Australian psychologists by sup-
pression and falsification of research
findings.
There is no such thing as a value-free
education. Teaching in State schools is
ideological—usually a mixture of whig-
gery, progressivism and watered down
protestantism. The principle of State-
Church separation is not violated if aid
is given to all private schools including
non-Cathoiic and non-denominational
ones. Political Parties are structurally
unsuited to fulfil educational tasks. They
are agencies geared to the pursuit of
political power by propaganda and poli-
tical manipulation. Most of our Churches
are culture-bearing bodies with long and
distinguished educational traditions. If
Catholics or any other group maintained
well-functioning private fire-brigades and
if they refused to use the services of
municipal fire-brigades they would have
a strong case for State Aid to the fire-
brigades.
The true issue, that is the issue in
terms of reasons of state, \vhich a gov-
ernment is duty bound to consider can
be stated as follows: It so happens t' at
roughly one-quarter of the population,
the Catholics, have rejected the State
school system and that they are patently
unwilling to change their minds. This is,
simply, a fact of social life, a sociological
datum, like the well-known reluctance
of libertarians to take monastic vows or
the unwillingness of orthodox Jews to
eat pork. It is also quite obvious that
the Catholics will not be argued out of


their position and certainly not by old-
fashioned rationalist bores and by pro-
testant paranoiacs. It is also the case
that the Catholics have set up a well-
functioning educational system which
caters for one-quarter of the population,
the proportion being probably higher
among the poore sections. Catholic
financial resources are inadequate and
the consequent understaffing, and lack
of equipment are ' to take their
toll. If no remedies are found educa-
tional achievements in Catholic schools,
perh. ps somewhat lower than in others
already, may begin to deteriorate rapidly.
In the light of these facts there are two
courses of action open to the govern-
ment: to assist in the slow strangulation
of the Catholic system by continuing the
present financial blockade or to pay up.
The slow destruction of the Catholic
system would be a very costly political
operation. Large and important sec-
tions of the population would be exposed
to an inadequate and poor education for
an indefinite period, and sectarian aggres-
sions would multiply and continue to
poison our political life with irrational
hates. And wh„t will je the positive
gains on the day when the last teaching
brother is strangled in the empty purse
of the last Catholic parent? The answer
is simple: none. Perhaps the fears of
popish plots will no longer haunt the
dreams of sc c protestant notables and
inmates of mental hospitals. The gov-
ernment ought to adopt the course which
is i:i the national interest.
And there is no doubt th. t maximising
educational achievements, getting the best
possible training and edu:ation for the
greatest number of our people is the
only policy consistent with economic and
political growth. We are living in a
dangerous and competitive world, and
the quality of our personnel on all social
levels co-determines the amount of econ-
omic and political power which we shall
be able to muster. There can be no
defensible rational purpose in expensive
Kulturkampf directed against a loyal
and powerful religious minority whose
services to the nation have been and are
frequent, numerous and distinguished.
The price paid for the appeasement of
sectarian paranoics in protestant and
other organisations, whose vote-destroy-
ing powers are being grossly overesti-
mated and whose only raison
seems to be anti-Catholicism has become
too high. We should not sacrifice one
more iota of our national power to
pander to the delusions of people who
divert us from our proper tasks by re-
hallucinating dead issues of the 17th
and 19th centuries.
KILLERS AND HANGERS
A Plan of Action
By PETER SHRUBB
it is important to show up weaknesses in arguments about
capital punishment, as The Bulletin did in its editorial “Killers
and Hangers”, August 18, it is a mistake to imply that the problem is
one that can somehow be worked out by argument. All the arguments
on both sides, it seems to me, are either illogical, disingenuous, or merely
metaphorical.
Take, to begin with, the five main
arguments used to justify capital punish-
ment. The first is the emotional argu-
ment: we are so horrified by what the
offender has done that we cannot contain
our rage, and simply wish upon him the
worst fate we can imagine. But this,
of course, is as good an argument for
murder as it is for execution, or for
private execution as it is for public execu-
tion; it is admittedly, advanced more
generally as explanation than as justifica-
tion.
The second is a sort of biological argu-
ment: we claim that our society is a sort
of organism, and that organisms natur-
ally eject if they can what seems to be
poisoning them. This mediaeval concept
of the social organism is a very woolly
one, though. Living organisms eject or
slough off substances that are not poisons;
sometimes the word “poison” is an indi-
cation of quantity, not of quality; some
viruses are vaccines.
The third is the argument based on
retribution: the offender must be punish-
ed, we say, as severely as possible. But
to kill a man is to place him beyond the
scope of punishment, and in fact we take
steps to make the killing as painless as
those who advocate punishment ought to
support the use of the cat, leg irons and
the rack.
The fourth is the argument based on
prevention: only the thought of capital
punishment, we say, will prevent would-
be murderers from committing murder.
But this simply is not true; what little
and doubtful evidence supports it is ab-
surdly inadequate as a guide to action. It
is much more likely that what prevents
would-be murderers from committing
murder is the profound belief in the
society to which they belong that killing
is a serious kind of wickedness.
The fifth argument is from law: thf;
law provides for the death penalty, we
say, and that is that. This is the only one
of the five which carries any weight at
all, and of course it is a quite different
kind of argument. I shall return to it. _
The arguments against capital punish-
ment are almost equally weak. There is
the serious, but woolly argument that
society committed the offence, not the
offending individual. All this means,
really, is that actions are caused; it is
as good an argument for condoning ex-
ecution as it is for condoning murder.
There is the argument that it is pos-
sible a mistake has been made, that the
offender may in fact be innocent; this
also is a serious argument, but in many
cases difficult to see as a valid one.
There is the argument that we are all
brothers; but of course we are not —not
in any recognisable meaning of the word
—and Cain and Abel were.
There is the argument from the
“golden rule”, that we should act towards
others as we should like them to act
towards us; this, of course, apart from
being crudely self-centred, evades the
issue by not defining what should be
liked—it might conceivably result, if it
were followed, in no one’s being held
responsible for anything.
There is the argument that all life is
holy, the argument that only love will
cure moral and social ills; but these too
are so vague as to seem less arguments
than wishes, and sentimental ones at that.
The best argument against capital
punishment, like the best one for it, is
the argument centred around the law.
This argument is that, to a very large
degree, laws of this kind are descriptions
of how people who are concerned about
behaving rightly believe they should be-
have. Torture cannot now be practised
legally because these people do not
believe —for reasons it is as impossible to
enumerate as it is, say, those for having
children, and of which they are similarly
to a great extent unaware —that torture
is right. It is my belief that these people
in Australia do not think, either, that
execution is right. Public opinion polls are
irrelevant because they do not separate,
in their sample, the people who care
from the people who do not care about
right behavior.
Laws can be changed; may I recom-
mend that, for a start, as many Bulletin
readers —in whatever State they live —as
agree that Robert Tait should not have
his neck broken spend a moment writing
a letter to the Premier of Victoria or to
the Governor begging that this man’s
sentence be commuted to life imprison-
ment.


EARN THE RESPECT OF OTHERS!!
AND RECEIVE
More Recognition More
Happiness More Money
Astound youi friends with your improved
Memory.
Impress your club with your Effective and
Public Speaking.
Handle people easily with the use of Human
Relations
Make more friends and influence others with your
increased Confidence.
Please mark items of special interest
Please send me Free literature explaining
how T can do these things
MR _
ADDRESS
STATE TEL.
Manhattan Australia Pty. Ltd.,
583 George Street, Sydney.
Tel. 61-7463.
LETTERS TO THE
EDITOR
THE ORR CASE
Sir,
The obviously kite-flying note on
“The Orr Case” in “National Notebook”
of your issue of September 1 gives me
some pleasure, since it demonstrates that
the philosophers have kept their word not
to disclose their proceedings to the Press.
I have no intention of playing your game
by breaking this undertaking in order to
set you right. Indeed, some such move as
this was foreseen, and my instructions
were simply to deny misleading rumors,
should any appear. This I now do in the
case of your note. I am, however, at
liberty to tell you that the recent meet-
ing of philosophers did not take place
in Canberra. The location was not secret
and you could easily have ascertained it
if you had been concerned with truthful
reporting.
Your conclusion, though based on
false premises, that we are approaching
“the virtual end of the Orr case” may
turn out to be right, and I need hardly
say that we hope it does. But if a settle-
ment is reached, it will be based on the
conditions proposed by the philosophers,
not on conditions dreamed up by the
Press.
A. K. STOUT ,
Chairman of Executive,
Australasian Association of Philosophy.
Sydney.
ON THE GRAVY TRAIN
Sir,
The ACTU does not regard your
article “On the Gravy Train” (Bulletin,
August 11) as worthy of a journal of
fact and opinion.
We welcome well-informed criticism,
however vigorous, but much of your ar-
ticle is neither fact nor opinion. The as-
sertion, unsupported and unproved, that
“in some countries officials are offered
the services of a girl for their stay” we
find particularly offensive. The more so
because there is an escape clause for the
writer that he refers only to an alleged
offer without any substantiation.
As to Mr Monk’s health, we are all
very happy to report that as a result of
his operation, the President will be in
much better health than he has experi-
enced for some considerable time.
I do not propose to discuss all the as-
sertions and anticipations made by
“Mugga”, but it should be publicly made
known that the President, and in his
absence a Vice-President (in the present
case Mr W. P. Evans) does not cast a
personal vote when acting as Chairman
and Returning Officer at an election held
at such meetings. He was present on this
occasion as an officer of the ACTU and
acted with complete propriety.
“Mugga” writes with some degree of
moral indignation at allegedly unworthy
behavior. We would invite him to turn
his criticism on himself.
H. J. SOUTER,
Secretary, ACTU
Melbourne.
Mugga writes:
Mr Evans, as a delegate, need not have
chaired or acted as Returning Officer at
the meeting referred to. Mr Souter could
have acted in both capacities. Had he in-
deed exercised his vote at the meeting there
would be little chance of Mr Amos attend-
ing a WFTU meeting in East Berlin on
October 1. If this does occur I hope Mr
Souter will take the appropriate action.
WATSON—THE FORGOTTEN MAN
Sir,
I liked Mr Ellis’ charming article
about my father—J. C. Watson—in your
last edition (August 18).
I felt quite sad as I read it because
Mr Ellis knows more about my father
than I do—l was only fourteen when he
died and although I can remember some
of the stories he told about Parliament
and W. M. Hughes, etc., there is so much
I don’t know.
I remember him as a very kind and
good father and now I’ve read that he
also was a fair and honest politician,
which is something to be proud of.
Thank you and Mr Ellis again.
JACQUELINE DUNN
Double Bay (NSW).
THE STUDENT GENERATION
Sir,
M. H. Ellis’ article “Traps for Aus-
tralian Historians” (Bulletin, August
25) moves me to comment on the his-
tory of a quotation which appeared in
the article, “The Student Generation”
(Bulletin, August 11). This was an ex-
tract from the editorial of the 1952
“Melbourne University Magazine”, and
commences “In the past two years the
only resemblance to a ‘hotbed’ was af-
forded by the burning of Wilson Hall”.
To my knowledge this passage has been
quoted four times since it first appeared,
namely in “Quadrant”, Vol. 1, No. 1, in
“Meanjin”, Vol. 20, No. 2, in “Austra-
lian Paradox” by Jeanne Mackenzie, and
in Peter Coleman's Bulletin article. In
each case there has been some error in
transcribing the passage, though some-
times this was merely a punctuation
change. The names of the persons writ-
ing the “MUM” editorial, James Griffin
and Vincent Buckley, were mentioned
only once, in the “Quadrant” article.
A. BARCAN
Newcastle (NSW).
A QUESTION OF FINANCE
Sir,
A letter from Mr L. Urbanchich
(Bulletin Letters, August 11), in which
he asserts that the “Yugoslav-Australian
Journal” is owned and financed by the
Yugoslav Consulate, has been brought to
my notice.
“Yugoslav - Australian Journal” is
neither owned nor financed by the Yugo-
slav Consulate, nor is it subordinated to
it any more than to Mr Urbanchich. It
is an independent newspaper of informa-
tion and a forum for the expression of
various opinions free of any propaganda,
be it Mr Urbanchich’s or the Yugoslav
Government’s. The main purpose of the
journal is to serve the needs and inter-
ests of Yugoslav migrants as a w'hole in
this country. It also strives to foster a
sense of understanding, reality and toler-
ance among the Yugoslav community
If this does not suit Mr Urbanchich’s
conception of freedom he may rest
assured that we will not be intimidated
whatever means he may employ.
IVAN KOSOVR!
Member Editorial Board,
“Yugoslav-Australian Journal”
Yagoona (NSW).
TRAPS FOR HISTORIANS
Sir,
Australian historians will welcome the
advice given by Mr M. H. Ellis
(Bulletin, August 25) about the neces-
sity to consult the original sources. But
they will regret that for some odd reason
Mr Ellis was evidently unable to con-
form to this sound principle when quot-
ing from Professor Fanning Clark’s
“Select Documents in Australian His-
tory”. Had he been able to do so he
would certainly have avoided the two
n ‘ ; errors in quotation and probably
he would have understood f rom the
contc :t what it was all about.
D. W. A. BAKER .
WoUstonecraft (NSW).


REVIEWS
ART
FAIRWEATHER FRIENDS
By MAX HARRIS
A couple of weeks ago Sydney woke
up to discover at last the identity
of “Australia’s greatest living artist.” It
turned out to be the Queensland hermit,
lan Fairweather. With ferocious assur-
ance the Sydney Morning Herald art
critic, Wallace Thornton, disposed of
those ingenuous souls who accept the
dominant stature of such painters as
Russell Drysdale, Sidney Nolan, William
Dobel, Len French and Arthur Boyd.
Nor did Wallace Thornton, in the role
of Australia’s most influential newspaper
art critic, give any quarter to people
like myself who feel that a top-of-the-
pops principle in art judgment is both
ludicrous and demoralising. That state-
ment was fair-square and unequivocal.
“lan Fairweather is now Australia’s
greatest living artist.”
With the Thornton pronunciamento
to trigger it off the fashion-making game
of Sydney art was on with a vengeance.
The “Nation” art critic, Robert Hughes,
in the role of art buyer, had queued
up all night outside the Macquarie Gal-
leries, and by coincidence was found
there by the afternoon newspapers.
“Fairweather is a genius” he comment-
ed. The S.M.H. kept the pressure up
the next day by pulling John Hether-
ington’s long profile of Fairweather out
of the Melbourne “Ages” morgue, and
devoting page two to it.
Every single painting in the exhibition
sold-out in a matter of minutes, the
chef d’Oeuvre going to the Queensland
National Gallery, with the Art Advisory
Board and the Tasmanian Gallery not
far behind. Those people who own
Fairweathers from the past found that
their acquisitions had, overnight, doubled,
trebled, quadrupled in value.
The discovery of “Australia’s greatest
living artist” soon spread to other news-
papers throughout Australia, and great
speculation developed about the reasons
behind this brilliant Sydney exercise in
fashion-making.
The facts: Fairweather is a very fine
artist, and the 1962 Macquarie Galleries
exhibition featured some of Fairweather’s
finest work. It is a matter of long criti-
cal debate and assessment to decide
whether there is enduring profundity in
Fairweather’s present semi-abstract ex-
pressionism. There is certainly a surface
felicity about his color and design, but
there is room for doubt whether the
already celebrated “Epiphany” canvas is
the mighty human document which the
fashion-makers assure us it is. It may
well be.
What then, lies behind this Sydney
fashion-making? Firstly, there is the
nature of beast itself. Art in Australia
is undergoing its speculative boom years
art is a more exciting gamble than
specking on green-belt land or the Stock
Exchange. The rewards can be fantastic
even if you only own William
Dobell’s discarded palette. Given Syd-
ney’s brashness, energy, and affluence,
a boom-town playing of the art market
is inevitable.
This leads to a belief on the part of
Sydney newspapers that art is almost as
newsy as a juicy knife murder. In other
places and at other times Wallace Thorn-
ton’s wild claim would have been gently
but firmly smiled on, and the critic
would have come later to regret his dis-
play of excessive enthusiasm. But, given
the publicity machinery of Sydney, there
is no drawing back once the magic words
“Australia’s greatest living painter” have
been written.
Finally, the whole Fairweather pheno-
menon could possibly be traced back to
the regional sociology of art in Austra-
lia. No matter how vigoious the denials
in the various circles of the Australian
cities, regional feeling still needles away
at the level of unconscious motivation,
a feeling avoided only by a couple of
critics, such as Robert Hughes, who
commute energetically between the
national art centres.
It is a fact that Melbourne artists are
the sole possessors of tickets on the in-
ternational gravy train of modern art.
Despite the talent and virility of the
dominant Sydney school of abstract
painters, it is the Nolans, Boyds, Perci-
vals, and Blackmans who command
national and international attention.
Sydney’s close-knit artist community
probably feels more deeply about this
than it would admit at the level of in-
tellectual debate. To throw up a “great-
est living painter” would be a natural
enough regional desire and what bet-
ter “image” of such an artist could there
be than Fairweather, the exotic isolate,
free of the stigma of immediate schools
and influences.
This is not to suggest that such a critic
as Wallace Thornton is other than a
supremely honest man, nor that his en-
thusiasm for Fairweather goes back a
long time. Although a Fairweather col-
lector, he is the last man in Australia to
“play the markets”. But there does exist
a psychological climate which has al-
lowed his extravagance to go unremarked
and uncontradicted.
THE ARTIST'S LIFE
Devi Tuszynski, Ben Uri Galleries.
Ehvyn Lynn, Museum of Modern Art.
William Peascod, Argus Gallery.
Paintings and Sculpture, Eastside Gal-
lery.
William Drew, Australian Galleries.
Melbourne.
fpHE new Jen Uri Galleries of the
Jewish Society of Arts, in Commer-
cial Road, South Yarra opened last
weekend with one of the most entranc-
ing exhibitions to be shown here. Devi
Tuszynski, a Polish Jew with a long
Parisian background, demonstrates mas-
terfully with 36 black and white minia-
tures, why he can claim the title “Prince
of Miniature.” They are rich, profound
works of rare skill.
What he contrives to do through a
wealth of religious, symbolic, narrative
and formal detail is give a complete
account of himself, his past, his devotion
to life and to art as a way of clarifying
life. Choose at random, say the first in
the catalogue “Ballade de Ma Mere”
and the whole of a life unfolds, re-
corded with meticulous love. The figure
of his mother is surrounded by the
touching memories of his now destroyed
native village in Poland, the square, the
cobblestones, the pump, the Jewish


graves; and around this the circle widens
as he records the stages of his travels
away from his home and mother. It
finishes in Paris. Later ones finish in
Melbourne.
William Peascod, a Sydney painter
showing at the Argus Gallery, also brings
his early experiences to his paintings,
but more formally. Like Elwyn Lynn,
who opened the next day at the Museum
of Modern Art, his interest i dominantly
in texture. He attributes his preoccupa-
tion with harsh and burnt surfaces to
his English mining-town childhood, and
although the melancholy subtlety and
refinement of experience which is so
strongly attractive in Tuszynski is absent
in Peascod’s paintings, there remains in
common a simple sincerity and direct-
ness. The main defect of the works lies
in keeping too closely to their sources
of inspiration. The best are those which
suggest by strong contrast of color and
texture the atmosphere of dark, rugged
landscapes.
Elwyn Lynn does a great deal more
with texture than does Peascod. His con-
centration on formal values is more
marked and the paintings accordingly
are more coherent. The still, dark com-
positions which so eloquently evoke the
substance and latent strength of solid
metals and stones are I think preferable
to the collages and junk paintings, whose
tone of protest has a note of the arti-
ficial, so that they tend to lose sight of
their point of departure under the weight
of their own irony. Nonetheless Lynn
brings more skill and breadth of purpose
to this style than anyone else working
here in the same way.
William Drew at the Australian Gal-
leries is showing a series of decorative
panels “based on the travels of Marco
Polo.” Decorative they are, in a some-
what facile way. His shapes and colors
have been worked out for him by the
Italian primitives, and since they were
eminently decorative, among other
greater virtues, so too are these.
The best of a hotchpotch show at the
Eastside Gallery are two smooth, slim
carvings of Anthony Rodrigues a
lovely blending of primitive vigor and
sophisticated craft. Among the painters
Arch Cuthbertson stands out, with some
vigorous abstracts on landscape themes;
but a good many of the warks crowded
in here might as well have been thrown
out to make some breathing space.
BILL HANNAN
NOT ON THE BAND-WAGON
Roger Kemp: Farmer’s Blaxland Gal-
lery.
Edwin Tanner: Macquarie Galleries.
Eva Kublos: Barry Stern Gallery.
T>ogf.r Kemp’s 52 paintings, many of
them large, tough and uncomprom-
ising strike a powerful note of convic-
tion. Here is an artist who refuses to
modify any of his ideas to suit fashion-
able taste. His themes are big and he is
perfectly willing tr delve until the right
combination of symbols is forthcoming.
Machinery, force, the pattern of con-
tinuous change impart the dynamic of
a species of neo-Futurism to his work.
Crowded forms piled against each other
have legitimate ancestry in the early
Leger or Marinetti hut their richness like
stained glass itself is enhanced by a net
of thick black lines. Crusted enamelled
surfaces make little concession to the
connoisseur of subtle texture but the
color range is robust and the message
clear. After a while the full reahsm in
these paintings makes itself evident, ab-
stract remoteness just disappears. Be-
cause he s-es the world in continuous
metamorphosis his paintings infuse ab-
stract geometry with smouldering ten-
sion. A certain fire challenges the imagi-
nation, it commands respect, but the fire
is under control.
Edwin Tanner has progressed beyond
the insistently linear manner of pre-
vious work towards a kind of Dada
marriage between the palette knife and
the electricity meter. However that's
only the beginning. There are paintings
with doors that open and shut, brass-
bound panels with glass, sometimes con-
cealing tiny immolated propellors,
screwed metal plates and masses of signs
suggestive of a technological world in
suspension which is spouting gremlines
like some school playground with weeds
at the end of the Xmas holidays. “As-
sorted souls in storage” does suggest
some mildly protesting schoolboy’s choir
in limbo, one cell each and one or two
blacker out. The joke each face is a
metal disc carefully drilled with three
holes and what a range of expression
on thos dials! Calculated disquiet per-
vades this kind of humor. These works,
one can’t exactly call them paintings,
provoke contemplation of vaguely
threatening reports like the one about the
US test pilot whose instrument panel
transformed into an array of grinning
red Indian heads. Does the machine
after all conceal a horde of little spooks?
Edwin Tanner might persuade us to
think so.
Eva Kublos has gleaned much for the
glitter and dash of the Sydney Abstract
Expressionists. All the influences so
cler-ly visible in these drawings might at
first glance imply the most blatant band-
wagon ism if it were not for the fact that
Miss Kublos is a gifted graphic artist
capable of considerable assimilation in
her search for adequate expression. She
builds on a wide experience of graphic
media and if in this show she is most
recognisable in her prints several of the
drawings in wash heighten with brown
indicate the disintegration of form into
a complex of forces battling in some
undefined space. In this world she con-
trives to retain her identity and dis-
covers a measure of dash herself.
J. HENSHAW
TELEVISION
HIGH HUMOR,
DEEP DRAMA
The Taming of the Shrew. Murder in
the Cathedral. ABC.
TTntil very recen‘!> it was impossible
to know whether Australian actors
had whatever television requires, or
were limited by the practices of radio
and stage. It was impossible to know
because in one television play after an-
other, most of them written by Austra-
lian authors, the act. seemed gawky
and uncertain at its best, and either
hammy or amateurish at its worst. But
whether the actors, producers c, tech-
nicians wer to blame, or all three no
viewer could tell.
In two recent ABC productio; there
has been a world of improvement in all
departments, and particularly ir. the act-
ing. One was The Taming of the Shrew’
with Ron Haddrick and Brigid Lenihan,
shown in Sydney three weeks ago, and
in Melbourne last Sunday. The other
was ‘Murder in the Cathedral’ with Wyn
Roberts as a’Becket, now also going
around the ABC circuit. In both instan-
ces the casts have proven that, given
a worthy script, anything is possible
high humor in ‘The Shrew’ and deep
drama in the ‘Cathedral’. The fault, then
must lie in the scripts and not in the
stars.
Neither of the present two plays is a
sitter to perform. It takes a good man
to make the shrewish Kate’s deter." : ned
husband worth an audience’s while,
whether he plays the part robustly, as
Haddrick did, or more slyly and subtly.
Haddrick, the all-shadow Dr Redfern
of the ABC’s historical serial, was all
light in this, and Miss Lenihan comple-
mented his performance with some
brightness of her own.
I thought ‘The Shrew’ gained a good
deal on television. A play of movement,
it moved physically as it never could
on the stage, and in one instance en-
compassed an outdoors scene in which
Kate was heaved into the ready edges
of a Centennial Park, Sydney, pond


(ADVERTISEMENT J
Gentlemen,
After having brought 471 American entertainers to this
country, most of whom were virtually devoid of talent,
regardless of the fact that many were commercial successes,
I now deviate with Lenny Bruce.
Advertising this entertainer—who prefers to he called a
philosopher—in the general Press would result in, I am
sure, 95% wasted coverage. This notice is directed to
the free-thinkers of our community, the greatest concentration
of whom, historically, exist in university circles—and
among readers of publications such as this.
Mr. Bruce is ’’performing” at Aaron’s Hotel, 56 Pitt Street,
City, near Bridge Street, twice nightly at 9 and 11 for a
limited engagement.
I apologise for ending on a note of crass commercialism, but
if you will come along, and tell your friends about your
experience, it will save me from painfully resorting to
horrible, unaesthetic ads. in the general Press with Lenny’s
picture in the middle of an exploding star with some equally
distasteful copy about importing from America the dean of all
’’sick” comedians or some other such junk—thereby attracting
an audience interested only in the shock value of the
performance and not in Mr. Bruce’s message.
Yours for a brave new era in show business,
Lee Gordon
P.S. Quote from ’’London Observer Weekend Review,” Sunday,
April 29th, 1962—"1f ’Beyond the Fringe’ is a pin-prick,
Mr. Bruce is a Bloodbath.”


ALL NATIONS CLUB
50 Bayswater Road, King's Cross, Sydney
FOUNDER: The Late Sir Robert Garran
MAIN OBJECTIVES: (1) To promote the closest
understanding between Australians and new
settlers of all nationalities by providing club
facilities and conducting non-political, non-
sectarian cultural, social and other activities,-
(2) To foster international understanding by
welcoming overseas visitors. CLUB TENTH ANNI-
VERSARY CELEBRATIONS -- Sept. 1-15. Member-
ship Informatioi Available from Secretary.
(Telephone 31-0954)
and emerged dripping and subdued. 1
felt for Miss Lenihan. Leeches abound
there.
“Murder in the Cathedral” did not
gain on television. It is j,ood to see such
a play on television, broadcast to audi-
ences who might never see it otherwise.
The sets were fine, and though the audio
missed the echoing volume the play
achieves in its traditional cathedral set-
ting, the general atmosphere was there.
But as this is not a play of movement,
the camera technique which served so
well in ‘The Shrew’ the stand-off,
examining shots was followed too
far. I realise that atmosphere and char-
acter had to be balanced, and that too
frequent an examination of the actors
faces in close-up would have reduced
the atmosphere, but really there was
not enough of it.
In many scenes during this play on
lelevision, the actors seemed reduced to
the stature of talking dolls, or as an-
other viewer put it, of religious statues.
I would suggest, too, that the Greek
Chorus is a shocking affair to watch
and hear on television, however effec-
tive it may be on stage. I can see no
reason why one voice should not be
sufficient, more tolerable, less distract-
ing in a medium which is time limited
and cannot sustain a reflective pace.
These are small criticisms. Both plays
were distinct advances in local television
drama. At the very least they proved
that the actors are here. Now we need
some writers. Some writers who will take
the trouble to watch television, study
television, and realise its limitations, and
its possibilities.
FRANK ROBERTS
THEATRE
THE REDOUBTABLE MISS BARR
Strange Children, The Rite of Spring,
etc. Sydney Dance-Drama Group,
University of NSW.
Past programmes by Miss Margaret
Barr and her Sydney Dance-Drama
Group have given us some of the most
dazzling virtuoso dancing ever seen
from local companies, usually by a hand-
ful of star performers against a very
large chorus which did little but ebb
and flow into processions and giant
groupings.
Whatever the reasons, this present re-
cital by the group is a most courageous
effort by Miss Barr to get away from
stars, and place the emphasis on another
part of her w rk altojetl er the drama
students of the National Institute of
Dramatic Art. It is with the redoubtable
Miss Barr that all NIDA students ex-
plore the meaning of movement, and it
is thanks to her world-class teaching
that after their courses our young actors
and actresses are comiu» forward with
such mastery of the physical aspects of
their art.
Anyone with concern for the effi-
ciency of NIDA as a theatre training
centre which one supposes ought to
include all taxpayers could rest happy
after Saturday night’s recital, for NIDA
students dominated the evening’s danc-
ing, and showed plainly that even after
limited periods of study, the training
they have with their gifted and hard-
driving movement lecturer enables them
to achieve many moments of distin-
guished and meaningful expression as
dancer-actors.
Although the first major ballet,
Strange Children, suffered by compari-
son with the presentation of the same
piece last year, when it was danced by
some of the group’s finest performers,
the work still showed the marvellous
capacity of this special sort of dance-
movement to portray the human being
in ways impossible to classical ballet
and most “expressionist” dancing.
The play of children, so free yet
so magical and mysterious, so much a
microcosm of the universe yet to be dis-
covered by the child, is the theme of
“Strange Children”. Though there were
some few awkwardnesses with propert-
ies, and too-repeated play with the one
device of having the children pull their
dresses up, the ballet authentically car-
ried us into the child’s world.
The major work on the programme,
and the only new ballet presented, was
Miss Barr’s production of “The Rite Of
Spring”, to the famous Stravinsky score.
Unexpectedly, from the choreographer’s
dynamic history, this came out with a
gentle, lyrical, pastoral quality, a quality
that exerted its own appeal and displayed
remarkably well the fundamental inno-
cence of the primitive tribe. Where
failure came was in the attempt to match
this softness against thi savage harsh-
ness and tremendous vigour of the
Stravinsky music. Time and again, the
stage scene failed to take the measure
of the mighty sound, and although the
dancers themselves achieved moving
accord with their themes of beauty and
sacrifice, the choreography fell slior
and failed the climaxes.
Thus, an evening with mixed and
often indifferent artistic success, but as
a glimpse of a most valuable teacher at
work, an evening full of encouragement
for Australian theatre.
KEVON KEMP
ACTORS IN THE
TEMPLE
The Tenth Man. Paddy Chayefsky
St. Martin’s Theatre. Melbourne.
Considered as a whole, this is not a
good play, nor even an intelligent en-
tertainment. Nevertheless, I find my-
self anxious to recommend it. It is, for
one thing, splendidly done; and it has
despite its faults, a delightful warmth
and humor in incidental reference, and
a compelling and most unusual atmos-
phere.
The characters are all Jews, and the
setting is a run-down Orthodox syna-
gogue in a New York suburb. Of the
few regular worshippers, one, Hirsch-
man, has been engaged for many years
in mystical studies, and in arduous pen-
itential exercises; and another, Schlissel,
is a self-proclaimed atheist, who enjoys
dropping Marxist maxims into the con-
versational pool. For most of them the
place is a kind of old men’s club. In
between jokes about their daughters-
in-law, and reminiscences of Europe,
they fondle the familiar rituals, and
wonder vaguely about their validity.
Into this little world bursts Evelyn,
a certified schizophrenic. Her grand-
father, one of the regulars, has kid-
napped her in the belief that she is not
insane, but a victim of demonical pos-
session. The various stances adopted by
the regulars to this situation provide the
play with many intriguing and delight-
ful moments.
Irene Mitchell is one of oiu best pro-
ducers, and this is an excellent example
of her work. She has assembled an un-
usually strong cast, and she gets from
them a beautifully paced and very well-
integrated performance. Abraham
Cykiert is most impressive as Hirsch-
man, and Max Bruch, Kevin Colebrook
and Su Israel are perhaps the best of the
others but there are no weaknesses.
John Truscott’s set is, as usual, first-
class.
J. MURPHY


August 1914. Barbara W. Tuchman.
Constable. 455.
The Lamps Go Out. A. F. Alington.
Faber & Faber. 9s. 6d.
THE RED PAGE
NO HEROES, ONLY GENERALS
By PETER WESTERWAY
Af the thousands who read “The Lamps
Go Out” barely a handful will pro-
gress to “August 1914”, a melancholy
fact but one which tells us something of
how to make money from history. Mr.
Alington was H. M. Staff Inspector,
Ministry of Education. His book is one
of a series (of which he is the General
Editor to be published by Faber and
Faber, one presumes with the require-
ments of the Ministry’s history syllabus
in mind. Certainly to those familiar with
the NSW curriculum the aim of the
series (“to interest young readers in men
whose actions, discoveries and ideals still
affect our lives and outlook, and in events
which have helped to make the world we
know”) will have a familiar ring.
And if they also endured Mr Aling-
ton’s kind of history at school they will
immediately recognise the style:
The Serbians were a reckless, ruth-
less people. They had a tragic, violent
history. In the Middle Ages they had
been a powerful nation (six), particu-
larly under their King, Dushan the
Great, a huge, black-eyed, evil-tem-
pered man, who murdered his own
father.
And recognise the nicely-rounded
“facts”: that the Germans had always
planned to wheel east before reaching
Paris, that Wilhelm II reluctantly un-
leashed Austria on the Serbs because
they had killed a personal friend, that the
four British divisions won the battle of
Mons and thereby saved France and the
world. The books are cheap, pleasantly
produced, and if “The Lamps Go Out”
is f.a.q., undiluted intellectual pap. The
series should be a great success.
“August 1914” is merely scholarly and
beautifully written. Mrs Tuchman is a
born story-teller, as any historian worth
his salt must be, but her tales also have
the unmistakable ring of good coin. Each
one adds a little more tc the final result.
As we watch her delicately shading in
the complexities, the subtle tones of
reality, there emerges under her brush a
true stereograph. When she has finished
we have a picture taken from all angles
at once.
She begins with a funeral. On a May
morning in 1910 nine kings, five heirs
apparent, forty imperial or royal high-
nesses, and seven queens rode behind
the cortege of the “Uncle of Europe”,
England’s Edward VII. They were
vanguard to a host of mourners attending
the obsequies, not only of jolly King Ed-
ward, but of the old world. For as Mrs
Tuchman takes us one by one through
the military plans of the four great
powers, it becomes clear that war cannot
be far off. While Norman Angell’s “The
Great Illusion” successful proves to the
intellectual world that war is now un-
profitable, and therefore impossible, the
British, French, German and Russian
staffs polish their preparations for just
such a possibility.
The most important, because the most
complete, are the French and German
plans. The French “Plan 17” is based
on the offensive. A reaction from the
fortress strategy forced on France after
1870, based on a misconception of Foch’s
mystique of will, it stresses le cran or
guts. The offensive alone, it assumes, is
suited to the temperament of the French
soldier. Therefore, in the coming war the
French must attack. The five French
armies are deployed along the frontier
from Alsace to Hirson, leaving two-
thirds of the Belgian-French border un-
defended. Though they receive many
warnings that the Germans intend to
attack through Belgium, the French gen-
eral staff plays down the idea. Even if
this happens, they argue, all the better.
By the time the Germans reach Lille
French cran have cut them in half, and
the French army will be on its way to
Berlin.
Germans do plan to move through
Belgium. Though Germany is one of
the guarantors of Belgian neutrality, the
plan has been agreed upon since 1906.
Under it, “The Schlieffen Flan”, Leopold
was to be bought off by a purse of two
million pounds sterling (to be levied on
the French) and thirty-four divisions were
to sweep down the west coast to Paris in a
huge right-wing envelopment. Leopold’s
successor, Albert, is expected to react in
the same way. Indeed, it is essential that
he does, for speed is the essence of The
Schlieffen Plan. Using Belgium’s roads,
railways and bridges, the right wing must
get to Paris by M-39, the 39th day of
mobilisation. Once having defeated the
French, its strength will be switched to
the Eastern front where the Russian
steamroller (which takes six weeks to
mobilize) will still not be ready for
action. Germany’s enemies will be des-
troyed in sequence.
Up to this point “August 1914” is
merely interesting. The reader is carried
along by a peculiarly complicated and
demanding game of chess. But as Mrs
Tuchman unfolds her story it develops
the awful fascination of Greek tragedy.
It is a fascination which still lingers when
the last of her 500 pages is done.
The situation at the beginning of
August was basically as represented in
this brief precis of the plans. Across the
frontiers two groups of armies, millions
of pawns, faced one another. One group
was pre-set for the advance on Paris,
the other for a counter-thrust to Berlin.
Neither would let the other’s actions alter
its predetermined campaign. On The Day,
a monstrous cart-wheel would begin
turning in the heart of Europe.
But no sooner had Sarajevo triggered
off the conflict, than the generals’ plans
began to crumble. True to the Schieffen
Plan, thirty-four German divisions began
to move through Belgium. They must
have seemed an impressive sight.
Only the red regimental number
painted on helmet fronts broke the
monotony of field grey. Horse-drawn
field artillery followed. The new leather
of boots and harness creaked. Com-
panies of cyclists sped ahead to seize
road crossings and farm houses and
lay telephone wires. Cars honked their
way through, carrying monocled Staff
officers with orderlies holding drawn
pistols sitting up front and trunks
strapped on behind. Every regiment
had its field kitchen on wheels, said
to be inspired by one the Kaiser had
seen at Russian manoeuvres, with fires
kindled and cooks standing up stirring
the stew as the wagons moved. Such
was the perfection of the equipment
and the precision of the marching
that the invaders appeared to be on
parade.
But the Belgians chose to fight. Their
six divisions of “chocolate soldiers” put
up such a spirited resistance that they
startled both Germany and the world.
And though their gesture cost them dear,
in a sense they defeated the German
Empire. The delay, the destruction of
roads, bridges and railways and the diver-
sion of divisions to Belgium threw the
carefully calculated Schlieffen timetable
out of gear. The excesses with which the
Germans attempted to meet Belgian resis-
tance formed the foundations on which
public opinion in countries like the US
was later mobilised.
And the Belgian resistance was only
the beginning of the German generals’
troubles. True to their agreement with
France, the Russians threw two hastily


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. “D”. Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A Service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if
successful.
raised armies into the eastern front. Ill-
equipped, badly organised, officered by
men who committed every blunder in the
book, the Russians were murdered in
thousands. But they did have some suc-
cesses, and since they had entered East
Prussia, German public opinion forced
the high command to divert not only
Ludendorff and Hindenburg, but two
corps and a cavalry division from the
Western Front. Unexpectedly strong
French resistance in the Ardennes also
forced diversion of troops. The strong
right wing which was the essential factor
in the Schlieffen Plan was fatally weak-
ened.
nr*HE French plans were also in ruins
within days of the outbreak of war.
Conspicuous in their blue coats, red
kepis and red trousers their beloved
pantalons rouges the French at first
suffered very heavy casualties and a series
of reverses. By August 24 their intelli-
gence had discovered that the Germans
were using both active and reserve corps
in the front line, thus enabling them to
outnumber the French in the centre and
on their right wing at the same time, but
the knowledge came too late to be of
much use. By then the French armies
were in retreat, with the Germans hot
on their heels. The British commander
Sir John French, was showing marked
reluctance to fight. Paris was in danger,
and the Government had moved south to
escape being shut up as in 1870. Le Cran
had not been enough. But perhaps the
most striking part of Mrs Tuchman’s
analysis is her treatment of individual
leaders. She has no heroes, only generals.
In each of the four sets of armies, am-
bition, jealousy, incompetence, and in-
decision combined to wreck what was left
of the fine pre-war plans. The decisive
battle of the Marne, which finally halted
the German advance, only took place
because von Kluck was too greedy for
glory. At the last moment, when the
French had decided to fall back to the
Seine, when Paris seemed certain to fall,
he decided to wheel west and, by sliding
by Paris, roll up the left of the main
French line. But it was a fatal departure
from the Schlieffen Plan. A French patrol
captured a map showing his intentions.
Gallieni, Military Governor of Paris,
grasped the chance. He persuaded the
generalissimo, Joffre, that a stand should
be made on the Marne. Joffre in turn per-
suaded Sir John French to stand and
fight. The world remembers the battle
by the taxis. Six hundred of them were
pressed into service, and each made the
sixty-mile trip to the battlefield twice,
carrying five soldiers.
Gallieni, called to inspect them,
though rarely demonstrative, was en-
chanted. ‘Eh, hien, voila au moins,
qui n’est pas banal!’ (Well, here at
least is something out of the ordin-
ary!), he cried. Each with its burden
of soldiers, with trucks, buses and as-
sorted vehicles added to the train,
the taxis drove off as evening fell —
the last gallantry of 1914, the last
crusade of the old world.
With these hastily gat! ered troops and
the four British divisions, Joffre was
able to attack the Germans on their ex-
posed right flank. The battle of the
Marne turned the tide and forced the
Germans for the first time to retreat.
It is not Mrs Tuchman’s business to
carry the story further —to the race for
possesion of the channel ports, to the
fall of Antwerp and the battle of Ypres,
at which the BEF truly did cover itself
in glory. But her account of the war up
to the Marne covers a period which is
vital to an understanding of those later
events. She amply demonstrates her
central thesis: that August 1914 decided
the main course of the war for the next
four weary years. And by the grace and
wit of her writing she demonstrates, too,
that history need not be the dull collec-
tions of trivia which are churned out
by the Alingtons and their ilk. It can be
complex, yet clear; ordered, yet realistic.
It can, and should have the attractions of
the novel. All that is needed is ability.
CONSOLIDATING THE REVOLUTION
/Tnly five or six years ago “paper-
” back” was a dirty word but now
paperbacks have won acceptance by both
respectable publishers and discriminating
readers. Whereas the market was once
regarded as uniform, today paperbacks
range from the flimsy volumes with lurid
covers to substantial works which may
be prescribed at university level.
The discovery of a market for the
quality paperback is perhaps the most
interesting phase of the paperback revolu-
tion. The Collins Fontana Library is a
good example of the interest of large
publishers in this field. Titles in the
Library include “The Renaissance”
Walter Pater, “The Italian Painters of
the Renaissance” Bernard Berenson,
“The Gothic Image” Emile Male,
“Domesday Book and Beyond” F. W.
Maitland, “Mediaeval Panorama” C. G.
Coulton, Edmund Wilson’s “Axel’s
Castle” and “To the Finland Station”,
Lord Acton’s “Lectures on Modern
History”, H. A. L. Fisher’s “A History
of Europe”, Mario Praz’s “The Roman-
tic Agony”, and Iris Origo’s “The Last
Attachment”.
Until an enterprising young publisher
in America had the cour. 0 : to bring out
Francis Fergusson’s profound essay in
dramatic criticism “The Idea of a Thea-
tre” in paperback form and found it
was a best seller, nobody would chance
their arm on such books. Continental
publishers have long published soft cov-
ered books but English language pub-
lishers, with their large markets, kept
their books in stiff covers until faced with
rapidly rising costs after the second World
War.
The advantages of the paperback
seem obvious now but they came as a
revelation to publishers. The first ad-
vantage is in the comparatively low price
of production which is further lowered
by the increased market L. such books.
Although distribution costs remain the
some, paperback production opens up a
new market for a book which has already
appeared in hard covers. Some publish-
ers approached universities, sending
books to lecturers in the hope that they
will include it among prescribed or
recommended reading: the Fontana “The
Testimony of the Spade”, for instance,
is recommended to geography students
at Sydney University. But there is an
audience outside those with tertiary
education. This accounts for the sales of
titles such as J. B. Phillips’s “The
Gospels in Modern English” and “Letters
to Young Churches” (321,000 and 606,-
000 copies) which greatly exceed the
figures for such popular general titles as
“Susie Wong” and “Guns of Navarone”.
A virtue of paperback publication is
that it can bring to the public notice a
book which would never have been re-
issued as a hardback. A prime example
of this is the Fontana book “The Gothic
Image” which was originally published
in English in 1913 under the title “Religi-
ous Art in France: XIII Century—A
study in Mediaeval Iconography and its
sources of inspiration”. It has been a
success, selling in Australia over the
1000 copies necessary for these quality
paperbacks to pay their way in the local
market.
But the total sale of a quality paper-
back must be around 25,000 before it
is an economic proposition so the local
market does not determine which books
will be issued as paperbacks. At the
same time, the Australian share of the
total British market is so large that it
does merit attention. Joy Anderson’s
“Born Free” one of the major popular
titles, sold 275,000 before publication.
The United Kingdom absorbed 187,000,
and of the 87,000 exported to the Com-
monwealth, 30,000 came to Australia.
The market pattern for paperbacks in
Britain and Australia is rather similar,


Amm-n > \ u \<>i mu
’AMiIM Hi A Vi I
MHJXVX
suv ji« jo
iisfxvjmx v
NAHM
XOUM
piouoa
Symbolism
and Belief
Tb* Pontons, Wt»ra»y
; > ;>•' ' : \-X '<<«*¥
l
The Fontana Library
THE FIRST ALL-AUSTRALIAN
FONTANA FORTNIGHT
Monday, 10th September-Satnrday, 22nd
September
In THE FONTANA LIBRARY are to be found
the works of some of the most eminent
scholars in the world.
RELIGIOUS
Ronald Knox Evelyn Waugh 5/6
Posterity will know Ronald Knox as the priest, who, single-
handed, translated the Old and the New Testaments.
PHILOSOPHY
Classics of Western Philosophy
Editor, G. J. Warnock, Fellow of Magdalen College, Oxford
A Treatise of Human Nature—Book One
David Hume 11/-
Edited with an introduction by D. G. C. Macnabb, Fellow
of Pembroke College, Oxford. A new edition of Hume’s
greatest work, including the Abstract which he published
anonymously in 1740 as a defence of his Treatise.
Utilitarianism John Stuart Mill 11/-
Edited with an introduction by Mary Warnock, Fellow of
St. Hugh’s College, Oxford. UTILITARIANISM. ON LIB-
ERTY, Mill’s little known but important ESSAY ON
BENTHAM, and selected writings of Bentham and Austin
are brought together in this original collection Of Utilitarian
texts.
THEOLOGY AND PHILOSOPHY
The first paperback series devoted entirely to Theology and
Philosophy
Symbolism and Belief Edwyn Bevan 15/6
In these Gifford Lectures a famous scholar discusses the
truth of the symbols employed in the expression of re-
ligious beliefs.
The Courage to Be Paul Tillich 8/9
An eminent theologian discusses the problem of living in
a world that is dominated by anxiety and fear.
The Tragic Sense of Life Miguel de Unamuno 12/6
The masterpiece of Spain’s greatest writer since Cer-
vantes the last of the great Romantic protests and the
one that opened the way for Existentialism.
The Desert Fathers Heilen Waddell 11/-
A selection from the Lives of the Fathers a masterpiece
of translation and commentary which evokes even more
vividly than the contemporary Latin the lives and sayings
of the Desert Fathers.
GENERAL TITLES
The Last Attachment Iris Origo 14/-
Byron’s last and most characteristic love affair, incom-
parably described and related to its Italian setting.
Hereditary Genius Francis Galton 12/6
The brilliant and provocative inquiry into the relation
between genius and heredity which Darwin described
as the most interesting book he had ever read.
The Testimony of the Spade Geoffrey Bibby 15/6
The story of Man in Northern Europe as revealed by
modern archaeology. “Accurate, interesting, diverting.”
Dr, Glyn Daniel.
Available now from all leading booksellers.
THE FONTANA LIBRARY
w ith a stronger demand for religious
books in Australia. One section of the
Fontana library is devoted to religious
books such as “Between Man and Man”
Martin Buber, “The Varieties of Re-
ligious Experience” Henry James, “Ronal
Knox” Evelyn Waugh, “The Tragic
Sense of Life” Unamuno, “A Treatise
on Human Nature Book One” Hume,
“The Confessions of St. Augustine”,
“Diary of a Country Priest” Been-
anos, “Purity of Heart” Kierkegaard,
“The Screwtape Letters” C. S.
Lewis, and “More from the Primeval
Forest” Schweitzer. In England such
titles are displayed along with general
titles but in Australian bookshops the
religious books, when they are carried
at all, are often segregated as if the only
religious book people will buy is the
Bible. The paperback revolution has
proved, however, that any book of worth
which is presented attractively will find
buyers.
ALVIN CARAMAN
A SENSIBLE
APPROACH
Fontana Pocket Library of Great Art.
Gauguin, Rembrandt, Michelangelo
(the Last Judgment) Collins 7s. 6d.
XpONTANA Books adopt a most sensible
A approach to the problem of making
cheap art books effective. Each volume
has about thirty color plates and the
standard of reproduction is very good.
One of their best features is the intelli-
gent use made of fold-outs and details.
This is especially noticeable in the
Gauguin volume, where three of the
four large fold-outs are details. By
doing this, the works succeed in con-
veying a reasonable notion of the sur-
faces and techniques of the painting —-
qualities which are usually lost in small
collections of reproductions.
The commentary in the Michelangelo
volume in particular is surprisingly un-
even. Whereas the general introduction
combines scholarly background with a
warm enthusiasm—“the greatest artist of
the Renaissance” —the commentaries
accompanying the plates lapse into the
homely condescension of an official
guide.
Of the three under review here the
Gauguin volume is the best. Its pro-
blems of reproduction are not so great
as those of Michelangelo, and as has been
mentioned above, the several large de-
tails are most valuable. The Rembrandt
volume would have profited considerably
from the same device. The commentator
gives due stress to the importance of
Rembrandt's brush and surface innova-
tions, but the reproductions convey


nothing of them. The introductions to
both the Gauguin and the Rembrandt
volumes are as informative and neatly
compressed as in the Michelangelo
volume, and the commentaries on the
paintings a good deal more sober and
precise. They are clear and simple and
should bring the essentials of the works
to the large public, uninterested in
aesthetic jargon, for whom the series is
intended.
BILL HANNAN
KEEPING UP WITH THE EVERAGES
Promise and Performance. F. J.
Schonell, E. Roe and I. G. Meddle-
ton (Editors). University of Queens-
land Press. 425.
The Slow Learner. F. J. Schonell, J.
McLeod and R. G. Cochrane (Edi-
tors). University of Queensland
Press. 15s. 6d.
“T>romise and Performance” is the
fruit to borrow a phrase from
the book itself, the dead-sea fruit of
six years’ research into the “problem of
failure” in an Australian university. But
why is this a problem requiring extensive
research? Failure rates are higher in Aus-
tralia than in England because entry to
English universities is highly competitive:
students are selected from those who pass
an examination at the end of the secon-
dary school course rougly equal in
standard to the First Year examinations
at an Australian university. As the
authors of this book themselves point out,
observes from Britain (including mem-
bers of the Murray Committee) who com-
ment adversely on First Year university
failures in Australia do not realise that
the corresponding failures occur in
Britain in the Sixth Form of the secon-
dary school.
Undeterred by this simple explanation,
eight educationists followed for six years
the progress of 400 students entering the
University of Queensland in 1955. The
students were subjected to a barrage of
questionnaires and interviews in which
they revealed their home backgrounds,
their accommodation problems, the
nature and number of their worries (the
number of worries per student in 1955
was 1.29), their estimates of their lectu-
rers’ teaching abilities, and their own
explanations (or rationalisations) of their
success or failure. Much of this “re-
search” was trivial almost beyond belief;
thus: “The following table shows that
whether or not students have sufficient
quiet for study is significantly related to
whether or not they have a separate room
for study”.
These laborious methods led (as educa-
tional research so often does) only to the
most obvious conclusions: the causes of
success and failure are many and com-
plex, and they are not all related to ability
and attainment. The students were didived
into five groups on the basis of their
performance in the matriculation examin-
ation; of the top group eighty-five per
cent., of the bottom group twenty-five
per cent., graduated in minimum time.
Nevertheless, the fact that some students
with indifferent prospects of success
avoided failure is taken to be a reason
for retaining the “open entry” policy.
Disregarding what they have said
earlier about failure rates in the highly
selective English universities, the authors
even argue that raising matriculation
requirements would have no significant
effect on the failure rate, and say that
Mr G. W. Parkyn, in his study of First
Year students in New Zealand (“Success
and Failure at the University”) came to
the same conclusion. But Mr Parkyn
qualified this conclusion, admitting that
if stiffer matriculation requirements acted
as an incentive to harder work at school,
the level of attainment of all pupils would
be raised, and the lowest group of
university entrants, far from being ex-
cluded, would be admitted to the univer-
sity with better prospects of success. He
also suggested that curriculum changes
in the schools —in particular the earlier
introduction of foreign languages and
other subjects—could substantially reduce
university failure.
But the authors of “Promise and Per-
formance” ignore these qualifications—
which is hardly surprising, since almost
all Australian educationists are concerned
to water down the academic subjects in
schools, to delay the introduction of
foreign languages, and in general to foster
social adjustment rather than intellectual
attainment. Instead, they urge that uni-
versity teachers too should devote them-
selves to social adjustment.
Although “nobody would suggest that
poor lecturing is a major cause of univer-
sity failure” (p. 245) a subsequent
chapter on “The Art of Lecturing”
suggests various means by which lecturers
should establish greater “rapport” with
students. In language reminiscent of
Dale Carnegie the university lecturer is
advised that: “Nothing is more effective
than learning students’ names fairly
quickly. They feel that you consider it’s
important for you to know them as in-
dividuals —it’s certainly more effective to
ask a question of ‘Brown’ (or Mr Brown)
or ‘Miss Smithers’ than ‘You’ or ‘the
chap at the end of the back ‘row’.” Lec-
turers should be “persons of power,
warmth and friendliness” who ntroduce
“flashes of extraneous humor into their
lectures”. (Why “extraneous”? Surely
humor arising directly from the sub-
ject would be more effective. I n
order to acquire the “lightness,
brightness, variety of light and
shade in manner and voice” that is ne-
cessary to sustain the students’ interest
in the dreary old academic subjects that
he is obliged to expound, the lecturer is
urged to “join or form a play-reading
group and later an amateur theatrical
society”. These folksy activities should
help to humanise “the type with his head
in the air and his heart in research” to
whom “the personal problems of his
students are of minor importance”.
Finally, “nothing depresses (students)
like criticism or intellectual snobbery”
Surely it is high time that educationists
realised that there is no such thing as
“intellectual snobbery”; but anti-intellec-
tual snobbery flourishes everywhere.
To make university eduction more
congenial to the “plodding average
student” (a term which, when used by
present-day educationists, is nothing
short of an accolade) it is also urged
that “research” (as distinct from “teach-
ing ability”) “should play a smaller part
in deciding who is to be retained on uni-
versity staffs”. Certainly the artificial
kind of “research” exemplified by this
book is no qualification for university
teaching or anything else; but the genuine
study of genuine subjects is a proper
test of a man’s ability to teach at uni-
versity level.
“The Slow Learner” is also largely
concerned with problems of social ad-
justment—but with more justification,
since its subject is not university teaching
but the education of children with I.Q.s
between 50 and 80. In fact it is a re-
print of a series of articles published
in “The Slow Learning Child”, and repre-
sents the views of educationists from
many countries. One of the editors (J
McLeod) provides a preface and a lucid
summing up of the conflicting points of
view; he also corrects some ot the more
extravagant misrepresentations For the
anti-intellectual bias that is the occupa-
tional disease of educationists appears
again and again in the articles; thus every-
one would agree that special classes
provided within a normal school for
children of low intelligence should be
made as attractive as possible, but it is
perverse to suggest that the children in
the ordinary classes should be made to
“envy all the good things that the special
class offers”.
JOAN MACKIE


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
DAIRY INDUSTRY MAY NO
LONGER RELY ON BUTTER
The £7OO million Australian dairy
industry is being forced to re-think
its traditional dependence on its major
product, butter. This applies especially
to the industry’s vital export side,
although per capita butter consumption
in Australia is also falling.
The industry is searching eagerly for
new dairy products and is increasingly
seeking to encourage the use of milk to
produce items other than butter. To this
end it recently persuaded the Federal
Government to set aside £350,000 (the
dairy industry sought £450,000) for a
virtual subsidy on export processed milk
products.
In June the Government announced it
would pay an initial interim bounty of
6d. a lb butterfat during 1962-63 on these
export products. The final bounty is ex-
pected to work out at about Bd. a lb.
The processed milk manufacturers got
their bounty because they convinced
dairy industry leaders that they would
have to withdraw from export trading
unless they were subsidised. Forced to
buy their raw materials in competition
with local butter factories and then sell
on the world market in competition with
subsidised European products, the com-
panies were finding they just couldn't
make exports pay their way.
Several of the Australian subsidiaries
of world-wide dairy food companies were
told they would have to cease exporting
unless they could do so at a profit. It was
ironic that this should happen just at the
time Australia could hope to boost its
processed milk product sales.
If Britain enters the European Com-
mon Market, countries such as Holland
are expected to increase their butter ex-
ports to Britain. This would probably
he at the expense of the now substan-
tial export sales of processed milk pro-
ducts by these countries in Africa, the
Middle East and Asia.
Australia, her butter displaced from
Britain, would therefore have a chance —
helped by her proximity—to snatch some
°f these processed milk markets.
At present Middle East and Asian
countries import about 20 times as much
condensed milk and milk powder as they
do butter and cheese. Their total imports
of condensed milk alone are more than
14 times larger than their total imports
of butter and cheese.
More than 95 p.c. of these coun-
tries are east of the Persian Gulf—they
are Australia’s natural markets from a
geographical point of view. Yet in 1960
Australia accounted for a mere 15,500
tons of this 278,00 ton market.
Holland, by comparison, held more
than half the total trade with sales of
147,000 tons. Denmark, the United
States and Britain also exceeded Aus-
tralia’s sales.
The appearance of Britain on this list
(with sales totalling 30,000 tons of con-
densed milk) is a bitter pill for Australia.
In 1952-53 Britain IMPORTED about
7000 tons of condensed milk from Aus-
tralia. In those days Britain did not
export condensed milk at all. But today,
with a strict 62,000 ton quota on Aus-
tralian butter sales to Britain, Britain is
finding it more profitable to use her own
milk to step up condensed milk exports.
The Federal Government bounty on
processed milk products is already pro-
ducing results. Tongala Milk Products
Pty Ltd, in Victoria, recently announced
it had obtained an order from the Burma
Civil Supplies Management Board for
200,000 cases of sweetened condensed
milk.
The order, worth £500,000, involves
the supply of 9,600,000 14oz cans of con-
densed milk, and was obtained against
stiff opposition from five other coun-
tries.
The order is said to be the largest
Burma has ever awarded to a single
company. At the same time Burma gave
other countries orders —Holland and
Russia each 85,000 cases, Denmark and
Czechoslovakia each 50,000 and France
35,000.
Tongala is the Australian associate
company of the world-wide Swiss giant,
Bernese Alps Company.
The Burmese order —which follows
several small shipments to Burma by
Tongaia over the last three years—will
be filled by Tongala's modern plant near
Kyabram, in Victoria. All the 2 million
gallons of milk necessary will be drawn
from dairy farms in a 25-mile radius.
The order also calls for 1600 tons of
sugar and 130 tons of tinplate.
The first shipment of 25,000 cases will
go shortly and the remainder will be
delivered before Christmas.
UFWA CHALLENGES CLAIM
BY APPU ON WOOL
United Farmers and Woolgrowers’
Association of NSW challenges the
claim of the Australian Primary Pro-
ducers Union to have representation in
the establishment of a simple authority
to direct the activities of the Australian
In a statement to The Bulletin, the
general president of the cJFWA (Mr. L.
M. Ridd) says.
The APPU claims that the proposal
to establish a single authority first eman-
ated from it, but this appears to be
directly contradicted by the official trail-
.c J r
script of the proceedings of the Com-
uu i r? • r' •..
monwealth Wool Enquiry Committee.
"Statements regarding the total mem-
bership of the APPU, and particularly
its claim to represent 25,000 woolgrow-
ers, need to be treated with a great deal
of caution. Only two to three years
ago, the APPU claimed 18,000 producers
in NSW. More recently, they have re-
duced this to 14,500, yet the total circu-
lation of their newspaper, which is issued
free to members, is 10,635 according to
the 1962 figures of the Audit Bureau of
Circulations.
“On the contrary, my Association has
18,500 members and 341 branches, more
than 90 p.c. of them active, in the wool-
growing areas of NSW, excluding the
Western Division which is served by
the Graziers’ Associations. At our
annual conference in July of this year,
we had 351 delegates. The 34 District
Councils into which our branches are
grouped all sent resolutions and all were
represented.
“Beside this, the alleged influence of
the APPU is insignificant and we refuse
to accept that they are a body of wool-
growers in any real sense.
“While it is true that, at the Federal
level, a serious difference of policy on
wool marketing has retarded progress
in the past, this has not been so pro-
nounced at the State level and my
organisation has always been able to
negotiate on vital issues with the
Graziers’ Association of NSW."


WORLD'S WORST TIMBER PEST
SPREADS TO VICTORIA
A ustralia bought itself a mountain
of trouble and expense when, about
1950, it tried to solve part of its post-
war housing shortage by importing pre-
fabricated European houses. The full
extent of the problem is only just be-
coming apparent.
Queensland was hit first, in 1952,
when European house borer the
world’s worst timber pest and a voracious
devourer of seasoned softwoods was
discovered in some of the houses.
The group of 2600 imported houses
in which this infestation was found was
fumigated at a cost of more than
£300,000. In the following ten years
occasional infestations have been found
in prefab houses in NSW.
The latest discovery in the Geelong
district or Norlane, in Victoria, has
underlined the danger that still exists
from the pest.
Estimates of the total number of the
imported prefabs in Victoria range from
under 4000 to more than 5000. Most
of them were bought by the Victorian
Housing Commission and erected in
estates in Melbourne and country areas
—there are 500 houses in the Norlane
estate alone. Smaller numbers were
erected by the State Electricity Com-
mission, Victorian Railways and other
instrumentalities.
The houses came from Italy, Erance,
the Netherlands and Britain.
All of the affected houses have been
fumigated. Fumigation costs about £l7O
a house and involves the removal of occu-
pants for three or four days. The whole
building is enveloped in a 90 ft by 90 ft
plastic shroud and pumped full of deadly,
colorless and odorless methyl bromide
gas.
After 24 hours the gas has penetrated
to any borer it can penetrate 4 inches
of solid timber and the house is
opened up and the gas dispersed. At
this stage near neighbors have to be
evacuated for a few hours.
The houses fumigated in Victoria have
been in the Melbourne suburbs of Reser-
voir and Maidstone, as well as at Nor-
lane. In most cases the borer has been
found in joinery window frames,
door-frames and cupboards. But in one
house it was found in bearers.
Why the fuss about the borer? Experts
say it presents a greater threat to the
Australian softwood industry than do
termites, mainly because its attack is in-
sidious and difficult to detect. The larvae
bore within the wood and often the first
indication of their presence is structural
failure of the timber.
The adult beetles emerge at the end
f a life cycle that may last up to 17
years in Australia! The emerging beetles
leave oval exit holes about 3/8 inch at
their broadest dimension.
Sometimes the borer can be heard
gnawing at the timber in an infested
house during the quiet of the night. The
beetles make a noise when emerging,
too.
Special acoustic equipment was im-
ported from Europe a few years ago in
an attempt to detect larval activity in
suspected timber. Many of the occu-
pants of imported European prefabs in
Victoria would like to see a mass fumi-
gation campaign similar to that under-
taken in Queensland, although the cost
to the State would be enormous.
The Victorian Housing Commission,
however, says it will not consider such
a move at present and will continue to
fumigate houses as they are found to
be infested. A big difficulty is that
every imported house must be considered
suspect.
European house borer was not de-
tected in any of the houses when they
were imported. Quarantine officers
checked the timber and some bundles
were fumigated or heat-treated because
they contained sirex wood wasp, another
pest now causing trouble in Victoria and
Tasmania.
Unfortunately these bundles consisted
of doors, wall-sections, window frames
or similar pieces, and each unit went
into a different house. Thus one house
may have fumigated walls but non-
fumigated window frames and no-
body knows which is which, anyway!
And to add difficulty nobody knows
whether the borer is spreading. Most of
the houses found infested in Victoria
so far were infested before they were
shipped from Europe, but one house
COULD have been infested here.
In several instances exit holes of
mature borer beetles have been found
meaning these beetles have been loose
to infest other houses.
Fumigation does not confer any last-
ing immunity. A house fumigated today
could be reinfested next week.
All in all the European prefabs look
like being a costly proposition.
MORE MILK THAN BEER
Adult consumption of liquid milk
in private households in the UK
is estimated to be just over 5 pints a
week, at an average cost of 84d a
pint, (10-5/6d. Aust.) for the 12
months ended September 30 1961.
Consumption of beer in the United
Kingdom in 1961 averaged just over
4 pints weekly a head of the population
aged 20 and over; the average price
was about Is. 6d. (Is. 1 Old. Aust.) a
pint.
NEW SHRINK-PROOF
PROCESS FOR WOOL
|3atent and licensing rights to a new
process for producing machine
washable wool products have been
acquired by Joseph Bancroft & Sons Co.,
according to Dr A. L. Lippert, vice
president of the Bancroft firm.
“As a result of exhaustive laboratory
and field tests on yarn, fabrics and
garments,” Dr Lippert said, “we believe
our shrink-proofing process is markedly
superior to others now commercially
available. It provides machine washability
for the life of the w-00l product, excel-
lent wash-fastness for a full range of
colors, freedom from pilling, and im-
proved hand and appearance.”
Dr Lippert pointed out that since it
was an additive process, it eliminated the
degradation of fibres that occurred with
most shrink-proofing finishes, thus mak-
ing it applicable to products or 100 p.c.
wool as well as blends of wool and
synthetics.
Dr Lippert said the technique was
relatively inexpensive, required no special
equipment, and could be easily applied
at any of several stages in the normal
processing procedure, either before or
after dyeing.
LESS LABOR ON FARMS, BUT
HIGHER PRODUCTION
Oritish agriculture's labor force has
been dwindling, steadily, yet produc-
tion has risen.
In June, 1959, the total employed was
719,300. A year later, it had fallen by
25,800 to 693,500. Last June, the total
was 28,600 down at 664,900.
Over the comparable period produc-
tion value has risen from £1465.3 mil-
lion to £1493.6 million sterling, ex-
cluding feeding stuffs produced by indi-
vidual farms for their own livestock.
Feeding stuffs, in fact, account for
about one-third of agriculture’s bill. H
has risen from £325.5 million three years
ago, to £338 million sterling last year-
This includes imports.
Imported feeding stuffs showed a drop
in 1960 £59,387,184 worth (2,019,-
316 tons) against £65,962,622 (2,160,133
tons) in 1959. Figures for 1961 are not
yet available.


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
SIR JOHN CRAWFORD ON THE EEC
A high-minded seriousness and sanity pervaded the whole
of Sir John Crawford's notable address to a graduate’s
meeting at Sydney University last Friday. To his
subject, “The European Common Market and its effects on
Australia”, Sir John brought not only the expertise and concern
of a distinguished former Secretary of the Department of
Trade, but the detachment and candour to be expected from
the present director of the Research School of Pacific Studies
at the Australian National University.
From the very beginning, though, feverish polemics were
avoided. “I am not out to demonstrate that Britain should
join; my remarks are based on the premise that she does join.
At no time have I concealed my own view that, if her
interests alone were at stake, Britain should join. Indeed, she
would have joined by now,” Sir John asserted.
With a revealing and honest aside, he placed himself
fundamentally among those who, from temperament and
mental background, genuinely desire Britain to enter the
European Economic Community. All such would see in this
move a coping-stone placed upon European unity and a
powerful renewal of Britain herself.
Still, “the interests of others are also involved. Australia
is vitally implicated and may well pay a substantial price for
British entry,” Sir John said. “There may be gains too. I see
no point in arguing that the Common Market is a bad thing
for Australia. It may or may not be; so much depends
upon the political and economic viewpoints adopted as a
basis of judgment. What is certain is that the impact on
Australia and Australians will be considerable indeed, and
for many will be painful”.
Yet Sir John came quickly to scotch the notion that we
can measure the impact in monetary terms.
“I do not know—nor can anyone else know—whether
we will lose £lO million or £lOO million of our trade,” he said.
“Some loss seems inevitable. It will not be immediate, but
I think it could be substantial by 1970. A loss of £lOO million
would be very large, although by expressing it as 10 p.c. of
our total exports it may sound easier to swallow.”
One of the lecture's chief merits was to make plain the
inability to speak precisely and dogmatically about the
Common Market’s final shape with Britain in it. Much
speculation still resides in any attempt to picture the future,
but, “it is proper to remind you that nowhere does the world
stand still”.
So, after a clear and detailed survey of the actual Treaty
of Rome, demonstrating its establishment of an economic
enterprise with a political purpose, Sir John proceeds to
disciplined speculation. He does, however, first remind us
what the Treaty is not—with all its political purpose. It has
oo connection, yet, with defence, education and suchlike
distinguishing marks of national life. Powers not now speci-
fied are unable to be added without members’ consent. “There
is no question of a constitutional monarchy being affected
by it.”
At the present stage many Australians may find those topics
somewhat rarefied, so vital are our direct export interests.
Sir John deals with the possible loss of contractual outlets
for meat, sugar and wheat, the reversal of present preferences
and “a greater difficulty in competing for what may be
left of the British and European markets with other non-
members”.
Much of this particular ground has been traversed before
and perhaps there is a little comfort in the comment that the
situation remains tangled, “extremely difficult to unravel”.
But, regrettably, “it is in process of being unravelled, more
than somewhat to Australia’s disadvantage.” Brussels, so
far, refrains from giving us anything like “comparable out-
lets”.
top of this, Sir John draws especial attention to some less
tangible matters —equally uncertain yet extremely import-
ant of impact. He wishes us to depart from undue con-
centration upon the Australian farmers’ problems and con-
sider also the interests of manufacturers, which lie much
closer to home.
For our manufacturers remain heavily dependent on imports
for capital equipment, components and raw materials not
made here. “Anything which impairs our export earnings
impairs our ability to finance these and relates to our ability
to continue to grow.” And the new economic giant will
assuredly be seeking world export markets in a thoroughly
aggressive fashion. So our secondary industries contemplating
export will find breaking into Asia and other possible markets
decidedly tougher. “Others will find competition in the home
market increasingly severe from the same European source.”
It is to dispel any illusion that merely farmers’ interests
are at issue that Sir John raises these points. Then his way
becomes clear to deal with one question that is of profound
concern for us all —where will Australia’s future trading
affinities lie?
Not unnaturally, our policy of necessity must search for
markets everywhere, “but not least in the non-aligned economic
areas of Asia, Latin America and the Middle East”. We
have to realise, though, that there exists no exclusive bloc
and “there is not likely to be one which would make sense
for us”.
Such overall conditions imposed upon our trade do not
rule out treaties with many countries, including the US, nor
do they exclude a Customs Union with New Zealand. We
will not be pushed into any free trade hrea—we will simply
be forced to rethink all our trading policies. And this has
to be more than a mere review of treaties and publicity.
- Continued on page 43


A NEW APPROACH TO
TAXATION
By “Croesus”
rpHE present complex of taxes in
A Australia, like tax systems the world
over, is studded with irrationalities and
inequities. Like Alice, it just grew or,
more accurately, grew by a process of
opportunistic grafting to gratify the ever
growing greed of Government. Cynics
like Parkinson in Britain and Gunn in
Australia have had a lot of fun exposing
its absurdities. But nothing like Profes-
sor Downing's ruthless onslaught at the
ANZAAS conference on the whole mess
has ever been attemped here before.
Even the Secretary of the NSW Tax-
payers’ Association, who seems to hate
the present tax system more than most
people, found the professor’s offering
hard to swallow, in one gulp anyway.
It would have been a little easier if the
professor had stuck closer to the prin-
ciples on which his new tax proposals
are based and had left the elaborations
for another occasion. There are so
many bits and pieces to digest which
seem to be incidental to the grand design.
Basically, Professor Downing has three
broad changes to make to the present
system. He would shift the present
burden of taxation for financing capital
works on to the users of their services
through increased charges. He would
reduce the higher rates of income tax
and substitute a tax on personal net
worth of assets (excluding land but in-
cluding practically all other kinds of
assets). Thirdly, he would close the loop-
hole by which undistributed profits ulti-
mately blossom forth in tax-free capital
gains.
On the first of these Professor Down-
ing takes an opposite view to Sir Douglas
Copland in being unimpressed by the
large slice (put at 80 p.c. of public
works expenditure financed from tax-
ation in all its guises). This matter is
certainly open to argument. However,
it has to be remembered that practically
all taxpayers use, or are indirectly ren-
dered services by, all basic services pro-
vided from Government expenditue, so
taxation is probably as good a way
as any of spreading the cost. To put
the main burden on direct users would
seem to be the more inequitable method
and equity is what the professor seems
to be pursuing hardest in his proposals.
As for the tax on personal net worth,
he sees this as averaging 1 p.c. and
ranging between 1 p.c. and li p.c. ac-
cording to the amount of the net worth,
net of liabilities. Tew people understand
what this entails and because of the com-
plex and costly tasks involved in assess-
ment and collection, not many will go
along with the proposal. The further one
gets away from the “income” basis, tax
assessment gets more complex and con-
fusing.
The main proposal to close the loop-
hole for tax free capital gains from
company income is to tax undistributed
profits of public and private companies
alike at the maximum rate of personal
income tax. But at the same time, he
thinks a reduction in present company
tax would be appropriate to reduce the
present tax discrimination in favor of
fixed interest vis-a-vis equity capital.
Professor Downing comes down much
harder than the present system does
on all kinds of capital gains and would
expect to be able to reduce taxation in
other forms as a result. For instance
just as he wants profits from “stagging”
assessed, he is also in favor of a wider
use of the existing power to declare tax-
able property transactions made with a
view to profit. And naturally a band of
professors would declare war on expense
allowances.
Here the professor really goes to town,
It is not merely expenditure in luxury
hotels and on meals that he’s after, but
also those having company cars at their
disposal. He would add £3OO a year to
the taxable income of taxpayers with the
use of such cars and put a heavy sales
tax on all expense accounts!
Professor Downing also wants the
abolition of almost all tax rebates now
allowable on personal savings, Govern-
ment loan interest, mining and oil invest-
ment, and medical and educational ex-
penses. He would replace these with
specific subsidies, compulsory insurance
and savings schemes or similar forms of
assistance. He opposes the present system
of rebates as inequitable to lower income
groups.
While in favor of tax concessions to
encourage limited amounts of saving,
he believes that for the rest private
savings should be made from income
after tax. Rather than give wide tax
concession to savers to increase funds
available for investment, the idea is
that the government should influence the
level of public sector investment through
other funds at its disposal (presumably
mainly the Reserve Bank) while encour-
aging industry to invest more by, say,
accelerated depreciation and investment
allowances.
City Diary
to the “Export and Grow”
" conference were struck with the
keenness and ebullience of Mr A. L.
Macßae, joint managing director of
Speedo Knitting Mills. Mr Macßae
presented a case history of Speedo’s
export triumphs with an air of good-
humored delight and an injunction to
“go thou and do likewise”.
Apparently overseas reaction to the
company’s racing swimsuit grew very
marked after the Melbourne Olympic
Games. Enquiries flooded in from Lon-
don, South Africa, Holl; nd, Canada and
America.
But one query from Palo Alto, Cali-
fornia, rang a particular bell and the
American hunt was really on. Early de-
velopments gave a good break into this
unlikely market and, among quite a lot
of other things, Canberra’s export in-
centives have helped to take more tricks.
Mr Macßae is obviously one person
in top management who can grab his
opportunities.
Tt was good and of considerable social
A importance to see such a crowd
at Sir John Crawford’s lecture on the
Common Market. The Great Hall of
Sydney University was filled almost to
overflowing.
Sir John was addressing a convoca-
tion made up exclusively of university
graduates. These latter were not, how-
ever, only economists and the like. It
looked extremely healthy to see the rami-
fications of the market interesting in-
formed people from all faculties, for
many of these may be playing a wider
part in public debate.
Many of those present gave clear and
obvious signs of their welcome to Sir
John.
With our frequently worrying cost
’’ problems, news of Australian con-
tracting successes against overseas com-
petition is music to our battered econ-
omic ears. Such success lies behind a
£3.5 million contract gained by John
Holland Constructions Pty Ltd to build
the Calcap (Rockhampton) power
station.
Hollands got the job from 11 overseas
construction companies and one other
Australian firm. The new station is close
to the Callide coalfield and work under
the contract includes design and build-
ing the power-house and administration
of boiler and turbo-alternator contracts.
Other recent Holland work has in-
cluded the Myer Music Bowl in Mel-
bourne and the 'diver 'ater Bridge,
Sydney. A £2 million contract for Port
Kembla coal handling plant was also
won on the international battlefield.


S3E9
BANK
■
-%:l Ltr
Enjoy the
finest and friendliest in
SAYINGS BANK
service at
THE
COMMERCIAL
SAVINGS BANK
OF AUSTRALIA
• Open an account .
• now with your *
income tax refund •
• cheque
&
DEPOSITS GUARANTEED BY THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
C BA/SO/16
rpHAT kind of deep analysis brings for
■*- reappraisal our shipping policies,
our export credits systems, our aid to
Asia, our attitudes to overseas capital,
and the “re-design of our import policies
to take account of the fact that it is not
Europe, but Asian and Middle East
countries that need special recognition
in our trade”. But, again, “there is no
bloc that fits our needs”.
Too easily and complacently accepted
growth conceptions ire particularly
challenged by the Common Market. Sir
John places particular emphasis upon
capital inflow and migration. On the
first he bids us look more carefully to
th( overseas control of our industries—
“especially with respect to such matters
as the right to export from the Aus-
tralian subsidiaries in competition with
the parent companies”
As for migration, “our own growth
performance will have to be more
striking and more assured than it has
been recentiv if we are to re-attract
migrants from Europe at the rate of
100,000 a year.
General political questions equally
reinforce Sir John's plea for a sense of
“national conviction on a policy”. “The
Commonwealth is not a power in itself.
We can agree that its character will
change and that its concerns will in-
creasingly be those of the under-
developed members. Yet these will
certainly be ours too”. If. perhaps, struck
with an increasing sense of isolation, we
desire more support from the United
States, we may well be called on to lift
our spending on defence and aid.
Whether non-aiigned or not. these must
distinguish any tenable foreign policy
for Australia.
Sir John is honest enough to point
out that many of the above matters are
issues regardless of the Common Mar-
ket. Their urgency is increased, so that
“we will need to make the running more
for ourselves than we have been
accustomed. 1 do not regard this as a
had thing at all. . . We may have to pull
our weight more in the positive policies
of the West, especially as these are
applied to Asia and the Pacific”.
However foreshortened, it must be
plain that Sir John's latest considered
foray into high public affairs asks for
the closest possible consideration by all
interested Australians. Its moderation
and breadth should particularly com-
mend it to our beleaguered officialdom
and Ministers.
With canniness, but not with despair,
Sir John has looked the palliative of
assurances straight in the eye and has
not been frightened at what he sees.
Granting a width of interpretation to
the phrase “vital trading interests”, he
feels able sensibly to comment “I have
always regarded inevitably ambiguous
assurances of this kind as more likely
to cause trouble between friends than
finally to resolve any issue—despite their
obvious importance in negotiations
between Britain and the Six”.
No volume of assurance and reason-
able guarantees, look they ever so
favourable, seems to absolve as, as well
as Britain, from a great leap forward
into a strange, new political and
economic future.


Economics Anonymous
ROLE OF CAPITAL INFLOW IN
INCOME GENERATION
HThe role of capital inflow in income
generation, and so on the level of
employment, deserves more attention in
calculations of feasible rates of recovery,
growth and labor absorption. Not that
the effect of capital inflow on the
balance of payments is not highly im-
portant. High rates of capital inflow
allowed us the luxury o c running a
series of huge deficits on current ac-
count for a succession of years up to
last year.
It just so happened that last year,
with record exports and low imports, we
had less need of a high inflow for bal-
ance of payments purposes, but if we
are to sustain a higher rate of imports
in the interests of growth, r. high capital
inflow would be all important failing
a big increase in exports.
Last year’s massive drop in apparent
capital inflow must be kept in perspec-
tive. The comparison bet /een the figures
for last year and 1960-61 must be in-
terpreted with full regard to the sub-
stantial trade credits (possibly as much
as £75 million) which inflated capital
inflow in 1960-61 and correspondingly
deflated it last year, when most of them
were repaid. Such repayments could
have accounted for £l5O millio.. of the
swing in capital inflow between the two
years.
With the tangled skein of these trans-
actions to unravel, not to speak of tying
up the ends of overseas portfolio in-
vestment in Australia, the Common-
wealth Statistician is obviously having;
more difficulty than usual in filling in
the details in the capital account of
last year's balance of payments, which
looks as different to the previous year’s
as chalk from cheese.
However the sharply reduced deficit
on the current account br'ance of pay-
ments and the fall from £225 to £92
million in apparent private capital inflow
were critical factors in the year’s decline
from £1589 to £llll million in
gross private investment in the whole
economy and so weakened one of the
most potent sources of income genera-
tion.
In his neat way of tabulating these
movements the Statistician treats
the whole of the deficit on current
account balance of payments as part of
the funds available for financing gross
private investments. So the actual reduc-
tion from a current account deficit of
£369 million in 1960-61 to a mere £8
million last year (largely accounted for
by a swing from a visible trade deficit
of £ 109.7 million to a surplus of £220
million and smaller swings the right way
in invisible trade) meant so much less
was available for private investment
here. Thus the income generating poten-
tial of capital inflow was cut to size.
How this worked through to the
various items of gross investment will
remain a mystery until the Statistician
gives us the full story of movements in
direct investment of overseas capital in
companies and portfolios.
The only detail of private capital in-
flow so fir available for 1961-62 is the
total of unremitted profits and undis-
tributed income of Australian branches
and subsidiaries of overseas companies
operating here, but this ite. is irrelevant
to the question of primary income gen-
eration arising from new overseas in-
vestment during the year.
No money crosses international herd-
ers for this item, and it could well be
left out of the ball nee of payments
accounts. Except that it is “owned”
overseas, it is for all intents and pur-
poses the same as undistributed profits
of local companies “owned” by Aus-
tralians. In fact in the overall balance
TABLE ONE
AUSTRALIA'S BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
1958-1962 (Years to June)
£. million
Current Account 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Balance of Trade + 42 + 37 + 21 -110 + 221
Invisible Credits (+ ) 133 185 204 233 249
Invisible Debits (-) 377 404 449 492 478
Current Account balance —152 —lBl —224 369 8
Capital Account
Drawings on I.M.F " 17 11 78 79
Public Authority Account (net) .... " + 8 +3B +4O +5
Private capital inflow (net)
Undistributed company income 43 63 69 63 n.a.(b)
Direct Investment in companies 48 28 84 117 n.a.(b)
Portfolio Investment 2 9 30 45 n.a.(b)
Total private capital inflow (net) 93 100 183 225 )
Balancing Item (a) 10 51 8 102 )
Change in International Reserves —4l 9 4 +39 +lO
Balance on Capital Account + 152 +lBl +224 +369 + 8.4
(a) Unidentified capital movement and errors and omissions (b) Included in total private
capital inflow and balancing item.
TABLE TWO
OVERSEA INVESTMENT IN COMPANIES IN AUSTRALIA
(£. million)
Years ended June 30
Item 1958 1 959 1 960 1961
1. Direct Investment by industries:
Primary, including oil and mining 7.8 6.2 12.8 9.1
Manufacturing
Metals, engineering, etc 8.9 10.1 15.6 17.5
Vehicles, etc 19.7 13.7 27.2 33.4
Electrical goods, equipment, etc 3.8 5.6 6.8 14.9
Food, drink and tobacco 5 9 6.6 4.4 14.9
Chemicals and oil refining 16.1 17.9 19.5 23.3
Other manufacturing 6.7 11.2 10.5 14.6
Total Manufacturing 61.1 65.1 84.0 118.5
Finance and property 7.5 8.8 23.9 8.1
Commerce 18.7 24.4 34.5 43.2
Miscellaneous 1.5 1.1 4.8 4.8
Total Direct Investment (gross) 96.6 105.6 160.0 183.8
of which:
Unremitted and undistributed profits (gross) .... 43.4 63.3 68.7 63.2
Direct capital inflow (gross) 53.2 42.3 91.3 120.6
2. Portfolio Investment (gross) 7.9 19.6 32.8 47.5
3. Total Overseas Investment in Companies (gross) .... 104.5 125.2 192.8 231.1
4. Gross private investment in Australia 1,066 1,218 1,381 1,589
5. Item 3 as percentage of item 4 9.8 10.3 14.0 14.0


CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on Bth March. 1950.
kQ
o
PER
ANNUM
,5 or 6 YEARS
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE
UNSECURED
DEPOSIT
NOTES
% P.A. 4, sor 6 yrs.
BVz % P.A... 3 years
8% P.A. 2 years
7V2 % P.A. 12 mths.
FUNDS MAY BE WITHDRAWN IN A PERSONAL EMERGENCY
APPLICATIONS MUST BE MADE ON THE FORM ATTACHED
TO THE PROSPECTUS, WHICH IS NOW AVAILABLE FROM:
The Company's Registered Offices
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Fir., Empire House, Corner Wharf and Queen Streets.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street.
PERTH: 81 St. George's Terrace.
CANBERRA: Ist Floor, Northbourne Chambers, Northbourne Ave., City.
NEWCASTLE WEST: Cambridge House. 767-773 Hunter Street.
WAGGA: 147 Bayliss Street.
Any Member of the Stock Exchange
or from any of the following Brokers to The Issue:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
TRUSTEES FOR THE NOTEHOLDERS:
Bankers & Traders Insurance Company Limited CCI42/AB
dip and Post Coupon
Cambridge Credit Corporation Limited,
Cambridge House, 249 George Street. Sydney.
Please send me without obligation a copy of the prospectus with application forms.
NAME
ADDRESS
of payments accounts it has a neutral
influence, being treated as a debit in
the current account and a credit in the
capital account.
The two entries thus cancel each other
out. But their presence in the accounts
is most confusing to th- uninitiated and
has on more than one occasion led poli-
ticians into wrong headed arguments.
If this item had been left out of last
year’s accounts, these would have sh n
a surplus of £42 millim on current
account, not an £8 million deficit as
recorded. By the same token their
omission from the capital account would
have reduced apparent capital inflow
(including balancing item) f m the re-
corded £92 million to £42 . iliion. In-
deed, the latter figure g : ves a much
more realistic picture of capital inflow
last year It would compare with an in-
flow of £264 million (including £lO2
million as unidentified capital movement
or balancing item) in 1960-61.
But further figuring is required to
arrive at the actual amount of private
capital inflow having an impact on in-
come generation in Australia. To start
with, only a part of the balancing item
would have had an effect on this, so
for practical purposes it can be omitted,
as indeed the Statistician seems to recog-
nise. Also, outward private capital move-
ments which amounted to £7 million
in 1960-61 have to be deducted.
These two deductions oring the effec-
tive total for that year down to £162
million, made up of £ll7 million direct
net investment in companie and £45
million n portfolio investment in com-
pany securities.
Unfortunately, however, the Statisti-
cian’s figures for the distribution between
industries of private capital inflow are
for the gross ameunt, but is, after de-
ducting the flow into portfolio invest-
ment for which his details are too
sketchy to publish. Fo" 1960-61 he
arrives at a gross figure of £ 184 million
for the gross amount ' direct invest-
ment in companies. We get this figure
from the above net amount of £ll7
million by adding back the £63 million
undistributed profits plus £4 million out-
ward private capital movements, both
previously deducted.
In the absence of official distribu-
tion details for the net figure for the
inflow of overseas capital to industries,
the official details of the distribution of
the gross amount (£lB4 million) be-
tween the various industries are of in-
terest in indicating the pattern of in-
come generation from this source.
These are shown in the table on page
44 together with figures for preceding
years. The table includes figures for
national gross private investment,
and to give an idea of the overall
relative importance of capital inflow in
mcome generation arising from gross
private investment, the amounts of direct
overseas investments in companies (ex-
cluding portfolio investment) are ex-
pressed as percentages of this.
Doubtless, the Statistician will bring
this picture up to date for 1961-62 in
The Survey of Overseas Investment to
be published later in the year For the
time being, however, it is pretty obvious
that, even if unremitted profits are in-
cluded, the figures for direct investment
in companies for 1961-62 will be but
a shadow of those for recent years. For
out of the £92 million overall total of
private investment in 1961-62 has to be
deducted a sum for portfolio investment
and a further amount for unidentified
movements in capital.
The amounts of such deductions are
anybody's guess. It would seem, however,
that portfolio investment would account
for very little in the light of the depressed
conditions on the stock exchanges,
though despite some repatriation of share
capital to overseas investors, it is unlikely
the ultimate figure will indicate that net
disinvestment in portfolios has taken
place over the year.


INVESTMENT
SECTION
UNION CARBIDE
SHOWS UP CHEMICALS' IMPASSE
TTnion Carbide’s moderately hopeful
outlook towards the future may not
blow away all the clouds drifting over
our local and embattled chemicals indus-
try. It is, of course, absolutely true to
speak of extreme competition and the
fight against free imports, but it is also
not easy to disguise the fact that there
actually has been quite solid and harm-
ful over-production.
Entrepreneurs do not find it easy at
any time exactly to calculate their mar-
kets. Yet even in boom times, it often
looked as if we were erecting a chemical
industry far ahead of our immediate
needs. Union Carbide has not been
alone in its suffering: witness the past
year’s tremors of 1.C.1.A.N.Z.
Union has taken a heavy knock, with
profit down from £347,472 to
£185,429 and the regular 10 p.c. divi-
dend not covered. Certainly deprecia-
tion is well up, of necessity, but tax
goes back solidly by £227,193 to
£87,950. Earning rate slides from 16.1
to 8.1 p.c.
Directors are ready with a full and
fairly mollifying explanation, and hasten
to brand the year as “very satisfactory”.
In particular, the new polyethylene plant
at Altona is expected to operate at full
available capacity to meet projected
sales. “Polyethylene resin is now enjoy-
ing a substantial and growing share of
the Australian market in many impor-
tant applications,” the report assures us.
“Reasonable protection” has had to
be granted to guarantee this situation for
some grades, since over-supply has ruled
world markets in the recent past. But
Union claims a strong part in creating
new markets for its glamor product.
Much of the lower 1961-62 product
is naturally attributed to payment of a
full year’s interest on debentures raised
to build Altona, though production only
began in the second half of the year.
Net interest rose by £75,040 to
£226,868. Some chemical plants, now
re-opened, had to be closed and many
selling prices were lowered to meet
imports.
Despite all these adverse machina-
tions, the year’s sales set a record and
“production costs generally were re-
duced”. Plenty of elbow room has been
gained to move forward again. But that
supply position still needs careful
watching!
As an investment, the stock also
bears watching for a “bargain” entry.
Anything under 50/- means value for
an almost certain recovery. Prices are,
of course, a far cry when their peak at
£6/2/6 gave the lowest earnings yield
on the market.
fpHE market must still school itself to
A accept a very bad worst from L. J
Hooker Investment Corporation, but any
of its misgivings about Hooker Finance
are now seen to have been somewhat
overdone. Prior to Monday, share prices
had indicated a dim view of both stocks.
Some illumination spreads over parts oi
the large Hooker landscape.
So far as the corporation itself is con
cerned, all sources are hazarding the
guess that the blow, to be made public
in a fortnight or so, must be particularly
severe. But a strenuous and scrupulously
correct writing-down of inflated assets
has saved many a company before this
Hookers should, in what may be a rathei
long run, prove no exception.
The finance company directors were
moderately forthcoming in their for-
mal preliminary report. There’s a little
matter of some £170,000 placed in the
erstwhile Sydney Guarantee Corpora-
tion, which shareholders have been given
hopes of full recovery: £28,000 has been
paid.
Under all circumstances, Hooker Fin-
ance had a good year and, unlike some
finance houses, was able to lift all types
of outstandings. A big apparent rise in
profit—from £66,586 to £ 122,277
cannot disguise a slower increase in
earning rate, up only 1.07 p.c. to 11.37
p.c.
But in the circumstances, an advance
of £1.39 million, or 17.2 p.c. in total
outstandings, making them £9.44 mil-
lion, looks fairly satisfying. Income yet
to mature, at £2.37 million, constitutes
40.5 p.c. of the accounts concerned.
A Melbourne broker with probably
** the biggest institutional business in
town, told The Bulletin he is finding
institutions still sceptical of possibilities
for low yielding growth stocks. He finds
a predilection for shares of middle-of-
the-road but nonetheless sound stocks
within 4£ to 54 p.c. range. Another
leading broker confirms this in recognis-
ing a current preference of buyers for
stocks with immediate income rather
than capital benefit merits.
That particular broker offers a selec-
tion of stocks also with a minimum yield
of 44 p.c. (in the cases of J. Gadsden,
leading container manufacturer, and
P.G.H. Industries, with a wide spread of
interests mainly in building materials,
contracting and packaging) up to as high
as the 7.7 p.c. yield of appliances
maker’s Electronic Industries “B” shares
at the current price of 16s. 6d.
Other suitable stocks making up the
latter’s list considered suitable for in-
come are National Bank (yield 4.8),
Moulded Products (4.9), Frigrite Ltd.
(4.8), Mercantile Credits (6.6), and
N.K.S. Holdings, a company whose in-
terests range from aluminium extrusion
to lawn mowers, building equipment and
air compressors, 5.6 p.c.
'TShe splendors and miseries of export-
ing, much in the local air at present,
are no better illustrated than by the re-
cent experience of our one genuine in-
dustrial giant which can compete in
the world’s series, namely B.H.P. The
group’s fate with such a basic commodity
as steel must provide an elementary,
though fundamental lesson to those be-
ginning to cosset markets outside Aus-
tralia.
It must of course be kept in mind that
in previous boom years, B.H.P. has
often been strained to supply its purely
domestic customers. But exports in the
1960-61 drab time, and for part of the
year just past, allowed high outputs to
be held without any drop in employ-
ment. Even so, the company has also
been thoroughly aware that it cannot
fill the gap with discontinuous exports
merely because this chimes in with Aus-
tralia’s internal conditions.
But as well as this brake upon export
possibilities, the world position last year
exercised a further control. Let directors
put it in then own words.
“Until early in 1962 domestic de-
mand continued at a reduced level but
the export of substantial tonnages of
our products enabled operations to be
maintained at satisfactory levels. Dur-
ing 1961 competition in export markets
was keen but it has since become much
more intense and this situation, coupled
with a substantial decline in demand
from importing countries, has resulted
in only limited overseas business being
negotiated in recent months . . . Sub-
stantial capacity is available for the pro-
duction of pig iron and semi-finished
steel and overseas markets for such
products are being actively explored.”


PRESS CLIPPINGS
WILL TELL YOU
Keep fully informed by letting us
supply you with press clippings on
any subject. Complete coverage of
newspapers and magazine, all states,
city and country.
A.N.Z.
PRESS CLIPPING SERVICE,
199 Liverpool St., Sydney.
61-4230.
TALK AROUND CHANGE
FFhese are not highly propitious times
for new floats and there has been a
dearth of them in Melbourne recently.
But the drought will be lifted soon
when Wm. Noall and Son bring Stokes
(Australasia) Ltd to market. Prepara-
tions were advanced a stage further last
week with the registration of the com-
pany with a nominal capital of £1 mil-
lion in 10s. shares. The public issue will
be £500,000.
The new company is acquiring the in-
terest of the Stokes Group which started
business as metalware manufacturers in
Melbourne 106 years ago, but has since
expanded widely, with several subsidiar-
ies now in a diversity of metal opera-
tions, including metal stampings and
pressings for the automotive and refri-
geration industries, aluminium and brass
castings, heating elements, anodised alu-
minium ware, fire extinguishers and so
on.
As well as its Australia-wide market,
the group has a growing export business,
already shipping to New Zealand, Ara-
bian Gulf countries and Singapore, and
prospective markets in ten other coun-
tries where it is negotiating contracts.
The group has come a long way since
its founder, Thomas Stokes, came here
firom Birmingham in 1855 to pioneer in
Australia the manufacture of badges,
medals and silverware, also making “pen-
nies” before the Royal Mint was estab-
lished. It now employs more than 400
and has recently added a new factory
outside Melbourne with a view ultimately
to transfering all operations from the
long established Brunswick factory.
The chairman is Mr R. N. Stokes, a
well-known figure in Victoria, being in
the State Parliament and also a noted
breeder of stud cattle on his Yarra Val-
ley property. Thus far, also, all four
directors bear the same name.
nPHANKS to low prices for pigs over the
A last two years and to high prices for
a rising turnover of bacon and small
goods in the shops, Australian Bacon
Ltd has lifted its performance consider-
ably and is now, as it were, home on
the pig’s back in investors’, if not pig
farmers’, affections.
After the previous year's drop in
dividend from 10 to 8 p.c. (on higher
capital) the rate has been restored to
its former level after a year in which
profit rose from £66,203 to a record
£84,622, sufficient to cover the dividend
about twice.
While rising prices for pig meat could
slow down this pleasant progression, the
company is clearly planning a new
advance because it will presently move
to increase its nominal capital from
£750,000 (£616,230 issued) to as much
as £2i million.
This suggests a new issue may be on
the way. If made to shareholders this
would be the first to them since the com-
pany was listed in December 1957, but
not the first issue for other purposes.
In the last four years the company has
issued new shares to the vendors of
Queensland Co-Op. Bacon Association
Ltd (1958-59), Barnes Bacon Pty Ltd
(1959-60) and Cambridge Delicacies Pty
Ltd (1960-61) on the acquisition of those
companies.
The prospect of a new issue certainly
lends attraction to the 10s. ordinary
shares which, in any case, seem to be
well worth the current price of 19s. at
which they yield 5.3 p.c
Oesults of Bowling Centres Holdings
Ltd, the largest of the indoor bowl-
ing groups, are due very soon and it
could be that shareholders will get some
return on their investment. Profit before
tax in the first nine months of the year
indicated that the net figure for the full
year to June 30 should exceed £150,000.
Although this is only in the vicinity
of 6 p.c. on capital of £2.4 million, some
of this did not rank for dividend until
the current year.
On flotation directors forecast divid-
ends of 10 p.c. after the first nine centres
had operated for 12 months. For the
1961-62 year it had three centres in ope-
ration for the full 12 months, and five
more opened before the end of the year.
Although any payment to be made for
1961-62 will not be at the 10 p.c. rate,
it could well be in the vicinity of 4 or
5 p.c. The new shares, which are selling
about ss. compared with ss. 3d. for the
olds, appear the better buy as they will
receive about 90 p.c. of the dividend
paid on the old shares.
A nother variation on the theme of
coaxing additional public money
into Korman companies hit the market
when the chairman of Factors, in which
Stanhill and also Mr Korman have big
interests, announced the formation of a
new company with a £lO million
nominal capital to further in some
undefined way, the reconstruction of
the group. It seems the moment
chosen to announce this enlightened
stroke was timed to coincide with the
good humor prompted by Holeproof In-
dustries. one of the profitable companies
among the group’s fifty or so subsidiaries,
having come up with a very good result
for last year.
While Factors is certainly the least
afflicted of the companies in the Korman
orbit, the market still remained very
sceptical of the move, even though Mr
V. T. Gladstones, the stentorian chair-
man of the company who succeeded Mr
Oswald Burt on the eve of last year’s
£964,563 loss revelation, was behind it.
After all, it is only a week or so ago that
Mr Korman told us he would have to
postpone a debenture payment by Stan-
hill for five years, if Chevron Sydney was
to get the help it needed from Stanhill.
As the world knows, Factors has about
£2i million on unsecured loan to Chev-
ron Sydney, and without the completion
of the hotel this is as good as lost.
The pity of it is that, excepting its un-
fortunate links with Chevron Sydney
and Stanhill, Factors has a core of pro-
fitable enterprises, which if hived off
would make an attractive investment.
However investors must take the bad
with the good in buying Factors ss.
shares, now looking a little better than
of late at around 2s.
A lthough the fate of the latest Sydney
Water Board Loan was not officially
known to the markets last week, it was
believed that only about £600,000 of the
£4 million sought had been subscribed.
Market observers were saying that one
of the reasons for the dismal result
was that J. B. Were and Son, which re-
entered the semi-Government under-
writing field after an absence for many
years to underwrite the loan, cut the
underwriting commission too fine.
Perhaps they were banking on getting
enough of the overflow of the strong
stream of money still flowing into bonds
to think it worth while to reduce the
margin. But it obviously hasn’t paid off.
How much of the loan they will be
stuck with is the latest guessing game
in the market.


/Companies do well when they make a
full breast of an indifferent result.
Nobody is fooled when a company
dresses up its profit announcement, as
Tarax Drinks Holdings Ltd did last week
—giving the profit before tax and depre-
ciation, and leaving the market to make
its own assumption about net profit.
Taking off tax and depreciation without
allowing for any other deductions which
could conceivably have been made, one
can estimate that net profit actually de-
clined from £182,025 to £175,712 on
the year.
This isn’t the sort of performance the
market was going for at all and the
shares were promptly marked down from
their pre-result price to about 21s. How-
ever, at this figure they look a good buy,
because this is a company with a big
future. Last year’s irop in profit was
much more than accounted for by
writing off last year’s expansion expen-
diture out of profits, though the amount
of this non-recurring cost was omitted
from the preliminary statement.
4 Melbourne broker has listed eight
food stocks which he considers as
“representing good buying at present
levels.” One of them is Italiano Cheese
Industries Ltd. This Victorian company
lifted its dividend from 8 to 9 p.c.
during the week, after a small increase in
profit from £47,176 to £50,993 last year,
and also reported that sales for the first
two months this year were 9 p.c. higher
than last.
However, the modest rise in the year’s
profit belied the expectations aroused by
the announced 30 p.c. lift in the six
months to last December, so the market
has become rather wary, for all the
optimism expressed for the future.
YJUoollen textiles seem to have had a
very much better year, as witness
the 22 p.c. increase in profits for 1961-
62 registered by Geelong worsted spinner
and manufacturer. Earnings rate for the
maintained 10 p.c. dividend moved up
very satisfactorily from 12.1 to 15.4 p.c.,
which is back to the 1959 rate and not
far below the best (17.6 p.c.) since
consolidated accounts were first published
in 1957.
One suspects the full accounts will show
that improved wool prices had a little to
do with this year’s better result reflecting
profits on stocks. This could also be the
case with other woollen textile companies.
Markets are also taking the view that
the results from the manufacturers of
synthetics will make much better reading
this year following the uplift in trading,
particularly in the second half of the
year.
Bruck Mills (Australia) gave a clue to
this in its interim report in March when
the resumption of its interim dividend
at an 8 p.c. annual rate pointed to the
possibility of the company doubling last
year’s 4 p.c. payment for the full year
(as a final) which was only barely covered
by the 5 p.c. earnings rate.
An 8 p.c. dividend was last paid in
1958. This was followed by a poor year
when the company went out of the divi-
dend list and incurred a loss of £31,000.
In holding the £1 shares of this Wan-
garatta (Vic.) rayon and synthetics manu-
facturer a shade over par, the market
shows it is still haunted by the company’s
fitful record since 1958, but if the
economic recovery continues and ade-
quate tariff protection is maintained there
is no reason why Bruck should not climb
back to 1957 levels of profitability when
it earned 20.2 p.c. and paid 12}.
The revival in popularity of rayon
would be a very helpful factor.
A basic economic axiom is that de-
mand creates supply and this applies
as much to seats on the Stock Exchange
as it does to more mundane items.
For several months now there have
been at least three prospective buyers of
a Sydney seat without a seller of any of
the 140 seats showing up.
However, this situation will probably
be altered soon by the creation of an-
other five or 10 seats by the Stock Ex-
change committee. But the price will not
be cheap - the last one changed hands
at about £16,500.
Tames Stedman Ltd, best known for
** its Minties, has learned to wrap up
its trading results with a little more sales
appeal.
Only two or three months ago it had
an unsuccessful tussle with Life Savers
(A’asia) Ltd for Smalls Chocolate Hold-
ings Ltd. It lost because it had always
been coy with shareholders about reveal-
ing too much wealth. Even a promise
of a lift in dividend from 10 to 12} p.c.
and a share split to ss. units failed to
swing the vote.
Now Stedman has announced a pro-
fit of £292,093, against a comparable
figure of £270,566 in the year to June
30, 1961. Earning rate is a very satis-
factory 26.5 p.c.
The market approved and put the
shares up to 225. yielding 2.8 p.c. This
exceeds the previous best of 87s. for
the shares when they had a par value
of <£l. But Life Savers shares still
command a far bigger premium—more
than seven times par.
Stott and Underwood, a Sydney
office equipment supplier, continues
to disappoint ; ts shareholders. Optimistic
statements are contradicted by results
later.
The years ended June 1960 and 1961
both produced very poor results, and
reserves were drawn on to pay reduced
dividends. The difficulties were attribut-
ed to the economic recession coinciding
with the company’s expansion pro-
gramme interstate.
The latest year’s trading brought a
loss of £23,253, and for the first time
in its public history, Stott and Under-
wood has omitted a dividend.
The loss of the first six months was
so substantial that even a worthwhile
profit in the second half could not re-
trieve the position.
/'kNE real estate developer to emerge
with honors from <s e economic re-
cession is Stocks and Holdings Ltd of
Sydney.
Preliminary cctimate of profit is
£140,000, or about 25 p.c. better than
the £ 112,000 of 1960-61.
Its stature was also heightened by the
capital subscription made by Pearl Assur-
ance Co. Ltd and Automobile and Gen-
eral Finance Co. Ltd during the year.
On the higher average capital (in-
cluding the one-for-three 2onus of last
May) earning rate went back from 45.9
to 37.5 p.c.
/Carpet Manufacturers Ltd con-
tinued to experience acute troubles
with imports competition in the year to
June 30. Profit, reported at £79,645
compares with £141,036 and £221,129
in the two previous years. A six p.c.
dividend will be paid.
Last October directors advised that
production was at a very leduced level,
staff had been dismissed ar 1 others were
working short time.
Almost all of the 1960-61 profit had
been earned in the first half of the year,
so the troubles largely date from the
economic measures of November 1960.
The company’s fortunes contrast
greatly with those of Minster Ltd.


m
HELP
all the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM2OOI.
LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Sixth Floor,
56 Hunter Street. Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Telephone; BW 5721
Telegrams and Cables:
“LAGRAM,” Sydney
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
Members of Sydney Stock Exchange
W. KEITH YUILL—KEITH C. PHILLIPS
lAN C. WALTON—GORDON G. KING
WALTER I. SUMMONS
WILLIAM S. SHUGG
(non-member partner)
33 BLIGH STREET. 2-0137
84 William Street, Melbourne. 67-5089
340 Queen Street, Brisbane. 31-2191
Telegrams and Cables: “Ralphking”
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Grafton
and Tamworth
A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L NEVITT. A C DRAPER.
N W C. DRAPER
{Members o/ Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building.
297 Queen Street. Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address; ‘NEVITTCO”
Phone; 31-2761 P.O BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
2 Denham Street. Phone 6089
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members nl the Sydney Stork ExrhanK'
16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines)
150 Queen St. Melbourne
67-5957 (7 lines)
43 Northbourne Ave.,
City, Canberra, A.C.T.
4 0365-66
Flinders House, Crown St., Wollongong
B 5900
Telegrams ana Cables
‘Rosdale” Sydney Melbourne
io Wolloneona
WANTED TO BUY
FOR CASH
Shares, listed or unlisted,
Forestry Bonds, etc.
J. W. GRANT & CO.
549 St. Kilda Road.
Melbourne.
Telephones: 51-6243 51-6245
Est. 1939
/\ne of the best growth stocks of the
so’s, Industrial Engineering Ltd, is
in trouble this year. Profit for the year
to June was only half that of the
previous year, and the company had to
draw on reserves to pay a reduced
dividend of 10 p.c.
Shareholders were shaken by the
news and released some holdings on the
market at 17s. 3d., Is. 9d. cheaper than
the level prevailing immediately before
the profit report. Yield at that price is
7.0 p.c.
This body has many tentacles stretch-
ing into all phases of industrial engineer-
ing, and those in the construction
equipment field suffered most.
More optimistic notes were sounded
on the activities of the steel fabrication
and chemical plant manufacturing
divisions, both of which hold good
orders.
After a splendid climb to 15s. 6d.
** since The Bulletin drew attention
to them at around 9s. 6d. in July,
Malcolmn Moore Industries, Melbourne
machinery maker, £1 shares have been
pausing for breath in the last week or
so pending the announcement of last
year’s results.
It has always been recognised that
the 1961-62 results will make indifferent
reading. The attraction for buyers lies
in a swelling order book (notably from
the aluminium smelters and the SEC)
which gives promise of much better
results in the current year.
HPaking the line that whether they find
oil or not the rising number of
companies now actively drilling or plan-
ning to drill for oil in Australia will be
greatly increasing their outlay on the
requisites of drilling, a Melbourne
broker has been casting his net for those
on the receiving end of this ex-
penditure.
One of these is the so far only
obliquely considered South Australian
company, S. A. Barytes, whose mine in
the Flinders Ranges is the only major
source of high grade barytes in Aus-
tralia. In anticipation of an expected
increase in useage the company has
been building up large stocks.
S. A. Barytes is already a considerable
exporter of the mineral, mainly to
Borneo and New Zealand. Ore reserves
are substantial and ensure a long life
for the mine.
The company’s treatment and milling
plant near the mine was constructed in
1957 with the aid of bank finance
guaranteed by the South Australia
Government. Profits have increased pro-
gressively and the board is confident of
maintaining an 8 p.c. dividend. At
around 4s. the 2s. shares yield 4 p.c.
HTwo Melbourne quarrying firms failed
JL to hold their earning rates in the
year to June, but their performances
were nonetheless very solid.
They were Bayview Ltd and the older
Reids’ Quarries Ltd. Bayview had a re-
cord turnover despite the poor economic
conditions, and a record profit. Its
earning rate edged down slightly from
27.2 to 26 p.c. In the final quarter
profit margins were reduced, and direct-
ors did not feel inclined to predict the
future of the industry, although they
said their company war ready to meet
all competitors.
Reids lifted absolute p ofit after sharp-
ly reduced tax. The average capital
had been increased by the 1961 bonus
and several takeovers, so earning rate
went back from 24.5 to 19.6 p.c.
The relatively new venture in hot-mix
asphalt at Springvale, operated by Reid
Bros and Carr Pty Ltd, seems to be
flourishing for a second plant is now
being installed.
Bayview ss. shares, offering at about
19s. 3d. to yield 3.2 p.c. on income and
6.7 p.c. on earnings, look less fully
valued than Reids ss. shares at 19s. to
return 2.6 p.c. in income and 5.2 p.c.
on earning rate.
A ny company which increased earning
rate on ordinary capital in trading
conditions such as experienced in the
last twelve months or so is worth closer
inspection.
Melbourne blind and awning maker,
Dural Leeds Holding Ltd, pushed earn-
ing rate up from 32.9 to 35.4 p.c. with
its fifth profit rise in successive years.
Shareholders benefited with a bonus
dividend of 2i p.c. making 15 p.c. for
the year, compared with the previous
12i p.c.
Dural Leeds came on the lists only in
1960 when 200,000 ss. shares were
placed through a broking house at 7s.
The lucky applicants now hold shares
worth about 17s. 9d. on the market.
Demand for the company’s main pro-
ducts—holland and Venetian blinds, in-
sect screens, and aluminium fixed and
roll-up awnings—must have been affect-
ed by reduced building activity. The
company appears to have counteracted
this with concentrated selling drives. The
trade name “Luxaflex - ' is kept well
before the public.
The shares are listed only in Mel-
bourne, and issued capita is a mere
£200,000.


THE BULLETIN ADVISES
INVESTORS
From a large number of readers' letters seeking "The
Bulletin's" advice on investment matters, these have been selected
for publication. The balance have been answered personally.
I shall be greatly appreciative if you
will advise me re my investment in New
Guinea Gold and Petroleum Develop-
ment, termed Enterprise in Stock Ex-
change lists. Do you think the recent
Indonesian “takeover” from the Dutch
of West New Guinea will eventually
move to Australian holdings in the rest
of the island? — H.E.J.
Enterprise of New Guinea Gold &
Petroleum Development NL has been
extremely quiet in recent years. Its
activities have been confined to develop-
ment of Gold lease No. 13 near Wau.
This mine is proving payable gold ore,
but operations are nowhere near as large
as they should be to enable the venture
to be profitable. Consequently, the
“profit” from mining in the year to
August 31 last—£lso3—did not cover
administration expenses of £2539 and
survey expenses of £10,287. Thus,
the company incurred a loss of £11,323
for the year.
The company’s attempts to obtain a
permit to search for oil have failed
because of the lack of financial resources
to carry out the required work on the
permit areas. As an investment, Enter-
prise needs urgently to find a source of
funds to develop the goM area as well
as obtain an oil permit.
New Guinea investors must harbor
some doubts as to the political future
of the Territories. It would be foolish
not to discount holdings with the doubt-
ful prospects despite political denials
that the Territories are in danger of
takeover by Indonesia, or anyone for that
matter. However, Enterprise’s invest-
ment in New Guinea appears an in-
tangible one, with most of the funds
raised to date expended on what now
appears as fruitless development.
★ ★ ★
I have 400 Vesta Batteries and have
been waiting for a takeover or better
results. But nothing happens: will l
sell or keep? Also, 1600 Mick Sim-
mons and 950 F. J. Palmer—sell or
keep? — E.C.B.
Vesta Batteries had a loss last year of
£95,310 and has not paid a dividend
since the 5 p.c. in 1957-58, but tangible
assets of 12s. 7d. far exceed present
price of 3s. Whether these assets would
appeal to another battery maker or auto-
motive parts firm is amo -t point. Take-
overs have been suggested from time to
time but nothing eventuates. We would
advise you to sell out.
Mick Simmons: No interim dividend
was warranted by results of the first
half-year's trading. Relocating stores
proved expensive and economic condi-
tions were adverse. The last dividend
paid was a 3 p.c. interim for 1960-61.
Although net tangible asset backing is
Bs. per ss. share, no takeover appears
imminent, and we feel you would be
wise to take the present price of around
par for the shares. They have been as
low as 3s. 9d. both this calendar year
and last year.
F. J. Palmer: To complete the sell-out,
we would recommend disposing of this
third stock. At 3s. 4d. on current
market, investors take a dim view of
their chances of a final dividend, the
interim having been passed in March.
After considerable success over many
years in men’s and boy’s wear, the com-
pany had an unfortunate venture into
the Big Bear Supermarket, and no early
recovery can be foreseen. A pity, for
the asset backing, again, is quite con-
siderable, at about 10s. sd. per ss. share.
★ ★ ★
I have a good many shares in EZ
Industries, which l value as an invest-
ment, and would be pleased to have
your advice regarding their future.
—J.T.B.
EZ Industries’ 10s. shares are now
selling around 12s. Bd. to yield 7.9 p.c.
Last calendar year they were as high
as 20s. 6d., so you may well wonder
what has happened to warrant this de-
cline in price.
The operating company is one of the
world’s biggest zinc producers and it has
recently extended its capacity. But a
new smelter has been established by
CRA at Cockle Creek (NSW), and EZ
must look for new export markets to
compensate for the reduced domestic
market, and the loss of the Indian market
to the United States.
A lull in world markets forced the
company to cut its daily output in
November by about 5 p.c., but full-
scale production was resumed in April.
It has substantial investments in many
leading companies operating in paper,
fertilisers, chemicals, steel and metal
manufacturing and other mining which
provided almost £200,000 income last
year. The investment portfolio, includ-
ing bonds, appeared in the books at
£1,684,990 at June 30, 1961.
A final 7£ p.c. dividend making 10
p.c. is possible again this year, although
it could be cut. The market seems to
be taking altogether too gloomy a view
of the company’s prospects.
In your case, we would suggest wait-
ing until after presentation of the annual
report which could bring some price im-
provement and perhaps sell part of your
holdings if EZ represents a large part
of your investments. Obviously the
shares will not inspire the same awe as
they did in earlier days.
★ ★ ★
Two relics in my portfolio from the
famous or infamous November of ever
present memory are Strata and Northern
Concrete, purchased at an average price
of 6s. in each case. I have considered
keeping them rather than writing them
off. But would value and appreciate
your opinion. — C.A.J.S.
You need not feel too badly about
Strata Development Ltd or Northern
Concrete Masonry Ltd. True the econ-
omic restrictions constricted them both,
shaping their development rather differ-
ently from what was intended. But
Strata directors nobly stated that the
economic difficulties forced the company
to concentrate closely on basic estab-
lishment and the selection of its initial
modus operandi.
A maiden dividend is possible for
the year just ended, June 30, and the
shares should then recover to your pur-
chase price. They have already run up
to 6s. Bd. this year on rumors of a
dividend. Directors have, if anything,
erred on the side of caution, and you
should eventually be rewarded for your
patience.
Northern Concrete M sonry Ltd: Pro-
duction began in October, 1960, a month
before the “squeeze”, which hit Queens-
land particularly hard, so the company
was handicapped from the start. The
interim report in April this year spoke
of a 50 p.c. increase in average monthly
sales for the six months to December
compared with the previous eight months.
Although the shares are about Bd. below
par, this is no time to sell rut. At least
wait for the year’s results to be pre-
sented in September-October.


Teachers for 1963
Cranbrook School Sydney
Head of Mathematics Department required
for first term. A good opportunity for
promising young man aged 30 to 35
years.
Master to teach French, to Leaving Certifi-
cate; required in second term; though if
available, applicant would be appointed
for first term.
Flat for married couple, also single residen-
tial accommodation available.
Reply in writing, stating age, qualifications
and experience, with copies of testimonials
to
Headmaster, Cranbrook School,
Bellevue Hill, SYDNEY.
Missing Friend
"The Union Trustee Company of Australia
Limited invites Robert Andrew Easton, last
heard of in Cunnamulla, Queensland, about
1908 or any of his relatives to communicate
with them by letter to their Office at 400
Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland, relative
moneys due to him ir. a deceased's estate.
"Information is also sought as to the place
of his death if he is not now living."
The Bulletin, September 8, 1962
NEW ADVISORY SERVICE
TO INVESTORS
Oeaders of The Bulletin can use
a new personal investment
advisory service, free of cost to them
If you have an investment pro-
blem, of whatever nature at all, write
to the Financial Editor, attaching the
coupon at right.
The Bulletin financial staff, expert
in this field, will seek out the informa-
tion you require and reply by letter.
Selected letters of enquiry will be
published (without the names of
writers) together with the Editor’s
answers.
All communications will be treated
as confidential.
COUPON
CUT OUT THIS COUPON,
ATTACH REQUEST, AND POST
TO:
FINANCIAL EDITOR,
The Bulletin, BOX 2521 G P 0.,
SYDNEY
MR
NAME mrs ........
MISS
ADDRESS:
STATE ,
I have 100 shares in RocL . bought at
20 5., 100 in Mascot at 195., 200 in Repco
at 9s. 6 d., 250 in Underwriting and De-
velopment at 55., 200 in Sleighs at 125.
6 d., 1176 in BHP at 515. 6 d., 100 in
Life Savers at 305., 200 in Mt Isa at
52 5., 200 in Bonville at 55., and 800 in
Jonathan at ss. I am only interested in
growth and handouts. Do you think 1
have any duds and if I change to an-
other stock must I pay tax? — J.R.
Your portfolio is generally very
sound and well spread throughout in-
dustry; perhaps a preponderance of BHP
shares, but that’s hardly a fault.
Most of the stocks you hold are now
selling above what you paid for them,
as proof of soundness of your investment
decisions. The exception, H. C. Sleigh,
for technical reasons of the proposal to
merge with Bitumen and Oil, is some-
what depressed at present. We expect
the price to firm when the merger pro-
cedure is well under way.
Your liability for taxation is limited
purely to the income you receive from
your investments. There is no capital
gains tax in this country, so the Tax
Commissioner is not interested in your
buying and selling on the Stock Ex-
change.
★ ★ ★
I hold nearly 9000 shares in James
Hardie Asbestos now selling just below
£5. Return at this price is just on 2
p.c. Should I sell half and invest in
Government Loans at 41 to 5 p.c. or
wait “for the motor to be cut”? Also if
l had to sell some of my portfolio apart
from this, which stocks would you sug-
gest? My portfolio includes Mark Foys,
Dunlop Rubber, Harbour Lighterage,
Concrete Industries, Tooheys, H. C.
Sleigh, Federal Hotels, Wunderlich, Myer
Emporium, Anthony Hordern, Tooth &
Co. and L. J. Hooker. — A.B.
Your holding in James Hardie Asbestos
is returning you £9OO a year at present
A switch of half the holding into 5 p.c.
Commonwealth Bonds will lift your in-
come from this source to £1575 a year
plus a 2/- in the £1 tax rebate on
£1125 of that income. This is a healthy
rise in income should you require it.
However, James Hardie Asbestos is
one of our stronger companies with great
potential. Shareholders’ funds seem like-
ly to continue to grow apace. It is not
beyond possibility that dividend could be
maintained on capital doubled by a bonus
issue, if the board was of a mind to “cut
up the cake”. Such a move would lift
your income to £lBOO a year—better
than the switch of half into Government
bonds. Equally, of course, the board
may wait many years before deciding on
a more liberal capitalisation. In the
meantime, it would be costing you some-
where around £650 a year if you sat
back and waited—a very expensive inter-
mission.
We assume that you already show a
good deal of paper profit on this holding,
and, with this in mind, suggest that you
take some of this profit and strengthen
your income in the way you suggest.
What you stand to lose is a solid capital
appreciation if the company suddenly
makes its move; what you gain is a sharp
rise in income.
Perhaps you could replace gradually
the 4500 shares sold if the price comes
below what you obtain upon sale. The
principle of taking profit to improve
income is a sound one which avoids
trouble.
The s. jond part rf your question is
more difficult since you do not state the
cost or number of the shares in your
portfolio. For instance, we would not
advise selling Dunlop, Concrete Indus-
tries, H. C. Sleigh, Tooheys, Wunderlich,
Myer Emporium, or Tooth unless you
are over-balanced in any one of them.
Mark Foys and Anthony Hordern are
the two Sydney retailers to feel the
draught of an ill-wind this year—and, of
the top stores, the only two to do so. If
you are showing a heavy paper loss here,
however, it may be better to await the
turn of events as both could recover sub-
stantially in the more settled conditions
now ruling.
Harbour Lighterage offers little scope
for growth and although the return is a
comfortable 6.2 p.c. this is not a stock
in the class of the bulk rf your portfolio.
It could be sold.
Federal Hotels—while under par and
therefore “cheap”—faces considerable
competition in coming years from new
hotels in both Sydney and Mel-
bourne. This seems certain to have an
impact on the Federal group’s trading.
It would be a speculation to suggest
otherwise. This stock could be sold.
The L. J. Hooker group has held its
shareholders’ funds pretty well intact
until the current revaluation. The road
to recovery here is certainly a long one.
Depending on your situation, advice could
be twofold —hold, or sell. Selling at
current prices may cause a disappoint-
ment in late 1963 when the effect of
write-off of over-valuation may materi-
ally assist speeding up of the recovery.
Against this, the shares may go even
lower in the coming few months —below
the “low” of 4/- now ruling.
Summing up, we would sell in the
following order: Federal Hotels, Harbour
Lighterage, L. J. Hooker, Mark Foys and
Anthony Hordern. The remainder would
make up a portfolio of grade A stocks.


-Company Analysis
OLYMPIC - "A SHADE TOO HIGH”
by “SECURITY”
Apart from the boor of 1960
** when the shares of Olympic
Consolidated Industries Ltd were
pushed up to 11s. 6d., little variation
in price has occurred over the last six
years. The highest price (between Ist
January 1955 and 31st December
1961) was Bs. 9d. and the lowest 7s.
However, since January this year the
trend has been upwards and now,
following the announcement of the
increase in dividend rate, the shares
have reached 10s. 7d. to show a 4.7
p.c. dividend yield.
Despite the various other areas of
activities ranging from insulating
materials to footwear materials,
Olympic is best known as a tyre
manufacturer. This field will become
increasingly competitive with two of
the well known petrol retailing chains
having interests in tyre manufac-
turing. H. C. Sleigh has acquired
Hardie Rubber and Ampol has a sub-
stantial though not controlling interest
in B. F. Goodrich. It is also question-
able, with the now high number of
vehicles per capita in Australia,
whether the growth of demand for
vehicle tyres over the last six or seven
years can be expected to be repeated
over the next six or seven.
In spite of competition, manage-
ment appears to have done remark-
ably well. Earnings, which had de-
clined to about £946,000 in 1956/
57, had increased to about
£1,131,000 in 1960/61 or by about
20 p.c. The new capital raised in
February 1961 would hardly have
made any worthwhile contribution
nor would the Wheels and Rims ven-
ture with Ralph McKay and Dunlop.
Explastics Industries Pty Ltd formerly
partly owned but now wholly owned
has probably made some contribution
but it could hardly have been suffi-
cient to make invalid the conclusion
that there has been a marked increase
in group earnings over the last four
years.
Unfortunately it is not possible to
point to an increase in profitability
ratios but management can certainly
take credit for having arrested the
marked decline that was evident from
1954/55 to 1956/57 and having
maintained the rate at around 20 p.c.
since then.
HThe company has also apparently
become extremely liquid for it
was able to repay over £250,000 to
redeem unsecured notes which were
not due until 1966. These notes
carried interest at 9 p.c. because the
interest rate is equal to the dividend
rate but not to exceed 9 p.c. or fall
below 7 p.c. Presumably the company
feels that a 9 p.c. interest charge is
unwarranted under present day condi-
tions even though it represents a net
cost after tax of only 5.4 p.c. This
move is very interesting seeing that
there are still over £1.2 million of
this particular i v e outstanding of
which two-thirds will mrTre in 1966,
and there are also £2 million out-
standing of another issue, three-fifths
of which mature in 1969.
Olympics record of benefits to
shareholders has not been an out-
standing one since the present com-
pany was formed in 1953. The 9 p.c.
dividend has remained unaltered until
the last year and only one 1 for 10
issue to shareholders made. This
means that the 1953 shareholder who
has maintained his original investment
by re-investing , roceeds of rights has
seen his dividend income increase
from say £9O to £lO3 over nine
years or 1 i p.c. per annum on aver-
age. The optimist may prefer to
examine the position over the last
two years (when the actual increases
have occurred) in which case the in-
crease has been at the rate of 7 p.c.
per annum approximately.
If the eventual return from the
shares is to equal that obtained from
the 7 p.c./9 p.c. notes, then the 7 p.c.
rate of increase in dividend income
will need to continue for at least
the next ten years.
Another way of looking at the
share price is in terms of the expected
earnings per share. Over the last six
years the shares have been selling
between 14 and 8 times earnings. A
reasonable average would be about 10
times. This means that at 10s.
purchasers are expecting earnings of
approximately Is. per share or 20 p.c.
on capital, a rate which was last
achieved in 1954-55. At the present
time there are 29,532,309 shares on
issue so earnings will need to be ap-
proximately £1,477,000 in 1961/62
or an increase of 30 p.c. on the
1960-61 year. If, however, the market
has now decided to pay 14 times
earnings for the stock (the maximum
over the last 6 years) this means they
will be satisfied with earnings slightly
below the 1960/61 figure.
Generally, it seems that Olympic
would be regarded as an “income
stock” which presumably means that
yield is the market’s criterion. The
yield available over the last six years
has been around 51 p.c. As yet there
is no real justification for accepting a
much lower yield or in other words
9s. looks about right, perhaps even
10s. but 10s. 7d. seems a shade high.
Balance Sheet and Profit Summaries
(£’000)
Year to June 30 1957 1958 1959 1960 1961
Current Assets 10405 10427 11634 12514 13202
less Current Liabilities 4024 3712 4828 5115 5144
Working Capital 6381 6715 6806 7399 8058
Fixed Assets (a) 4376 5248 6517 9464 10332
Investments — 11 62 65 25
Intangibles (a) 1551 1592 1643 — 2
Total Capit' ’ 12308 13566 15028 16928 18417
Represented by:
Loan Capital 1093 1851 2722 4072 4159
Minority Interests 3 19 — — 4
Preference Capital 1653 1653 1653 1653 1653
Ordinary Capital 6434 6434 6476 6506 7337
Reserves 3125 3609 4177 4697 5264
(a) Revaluation during 1959/60 by nearly £1.75 million
Estimated Operating Income 2254 2640 2959 2987 3321
Earnings 946 1071 1246 1094 1131
Ord. Dividend 579 579 583 588 627
Dividend Yield p.c. (b) 5.6 5.5 4.7 5.4 5.8
Price/Earnings Ratio (b) 10.9 9.8 9.9 10.1 10.1
(b) Based on last sale in months accounts presented


STOCK OPTIONS
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
11th Floor, Pearl Assurance Building
151 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
Phone: 67-8011
BRANCH OFFICES
Sydney: 383 George Street. 29-7865
Adelaide: 61 Gawler Place, 8-7407
Brisbane: 334 Queen Street. 31-1621
Canberra: Maitland House. Hobart
Place. 4-3334
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
All Offices: “Options”
Write or Phone for Free Brochure
and Current Price Schedule.
FOR CALL OPTIONS
CALL STOCK OPTIONS
Speculator's Diary
4 s Mr Menzies and Mr McEwen prob-
ably made it their business to have
a chat with Sir John Crawford about
the Common Market before they went
off to London, I thought it would be
a good idea if I also heard what he had
to say on the subject. The opportunity
came last Friday night when Sir John
addressed a convocation (what a word!)
at Sydney University. There, under the
flickering gaslights of the Great Hall,
he put his much-discused problem into
some sort of perspective.
Sir John’s talk would hardly make
anyone feel complacent about the Com-
mon Market. But then it never pays to
be complacent about anything, the share
market no less than the Common
Market.
Mr Holt, Mr Ricketson, myself and
others have all been doing our best to
stir the share market out of its winter
lethargy. But the index remains stub-
bornly in the 290’s, every now and again
raising our hopes only to dash them
again.
But, as 1 said last week, within this
static index there is a lot of fun to be
had and money to be made. Investors
who have not made any money in the
last few months have only themselves to
blame. The opportunities have been
there.
One “opportunity stock” whose annual
report last week measured fully up to
my expectations was O’Donnell Griffin.
For the second successive year the tax
provision exceeded the net profit.
There’s only one other company that I
know of with this distinction and that’s
James Hardie Asbestos which, I’m glad
to say* is also in my portfolio. O’Donnell
Griffin’s tax provision this year of
£BB,OOO would normally indicate a tax-
able profit of at least £132,000, or
almost exactly double the declared figure
of £67,000. This means the earning
rate is closer to 40 p.c. and not 20 p.c.,
as disclosed. If this is so the shares are
still cheap at 18s. 6d. and I’m not
parting with mine yet. Incidentally, they
are establishing something of a record
as a “long run” in my portfolio, 400
of them having been there a year, the
other 200 only since July.
Elsewhere in my portfolio, the chooks
were also doing well, with Steggles up
from Bs. 2d. to 9s. 3d. in only a fort-
night. In the not-so-bright department
the MLC and Ready Mixed Concrete
were still wallowing below the prices I
paid for them while Mr Alan Fraser’s
remarks in Parliament weren’t helping
Goodwins much. No investor, that
Fraser.
I suppose I should sell Goodwins but
for the moment I’m adopting a wait-and-
see policy—generally a foolish practice
where shares are concerned.
I began the trading week by casting
sanity right overboard and buying 100
AOG. Now I know this is the fifth time
I’ve bought AOG this year —not a bad
performance for someone who haughtily
declared in January that oil shares were
too dangerous even for a speculator such
as myself. My four previous encounters
with AOG have resulted in two profits
and two losses, leaving a net gain of £6O.
This latest plunge into the oil slick
followed the announcement that Moonie
No. 6 had “come in”. Again AOG’s
share price refused to budge. It’s because
the price had been stuck in the 525. to
565. range for two months or more that
made me think the shares had reached
the end of their monumental slide from
the boom-day peak of £6 15s. In the
intervening months the possibility of the
Moonie field being developed com-
mercially has become more real than
ever.
I realise, of course, that even if
Moonie is commercial, AOG’s 7,700,000
shares might still be worth only half their
present price. By pricing the shares at
555., the market values AOG (whose
interest in Moonie is only 20 p.c.) at
over £2O million. Time will tell if this
is under or over-valuing the potential.
My only other purchase this week was
to get the remainder of the Peter Lloyds
I ordered last week. These 600 gave me
an average price of ss. 9d. for my 1,000
shares. Peter Lloyd not only has a
Holden franchise and the new model
Holden to recommend it, but also the
promised consummation of the contro-
versial merger with Stack and Co.
Details of the week’s business were:
BOUGHT
100 AOG at 55/6 £282
600 Peter Lloyd at 5/10 £lB2
The £lB5 left over from last week
covered the Peter Lloyds and the AOG
remain unpaid for. The value of the
portfolio held steady at about £7,100
for the fifth week in succession. Shares
now held are:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
600 O’Donnell Griffin 28/8/61 13/6 18/6
2,000 United Motels 20/11/61 3/9 4/2
400 Auto and General
Finance 8/2/62 19/9 26/6
800 Goodwins 21/3/62 5/9 7/1
500 Ready Mixed 6/4/62 17/9 15/9
100 MLC 27/4/62 130/- 125/-
400 Malleys 3/5/62 20/9 23/-
1,000 Hanimex 23/5 62 4 11 6/1
300 National Consol. 30/5/62 26/1 26/-
300 Marcus Clark notes 22/6/62 27/6 30/-
100 James Hardie 29/6/62 98/ 100/-
100 John Lysaght 18/7/62 64/- 64/6
400 Courtaulds 24/7/62 11/9 11/-
100 C'SR 1/8/61 49/- 49/6
400 AWA 10/8/62 20/- 19/6
500 Steggles 16/8/62 8/2 9/3
500 R. W. Miller 21/8/62 17/3 17/10
1,000 Peter Lloyd 24/8/62 5/9 6/2
100 AOG 27/8/62 55/6 54/3
HANDSOME
PROSPECTS OF A
CINEMA STOCK
T’he cinema business is hardly attrac-
tive for growth investment. Falling
attendances following television satura-
tion have seen to that. However, the
chains that have built up splendid free-
hold assets over many years of extreme-
ly profitable operation bear examination.
For the Australian investor, Amalga-
mated Holdings Ltd, a half owner of
the widespread Greater Union group, is
the best of these.
This year Greater Union disclosed its
tax provision for the first time. This
provision indicated profits well above
those disclosed. The latest taxation pro-
vision implies that Greater Union can
continue to earn splendid profits by
efficient and quality operation in what
are difficult times.
Moreover, assets of the group have
been built up steadily at “pre-boom”
prices and represent huge wealth not
disclosed. Valuable freeholds dotted
around Sydney and Melbourne are in the
books at cost, yet most were acquired
in the 1930’5.
Amalgamated’s 5/- shares at 9/- yield
5.5 per cent. The day will come when
the Greater Union assets will be either
revalued more in line with reality, or
will be split up.
The position could well be reached
where Amalgamated is a shareholder
in an extremely wealthy investment
group. Meantime, the 10 per cent, divi-
dend looks safe enough. The stock is
one to hold for four or five years to see
how the wind blows.


Rothmans of Pall Mall
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
STATEMENT BY THE CHAIRMAN*
This is a challenging industry at all times,
and the past year had more than its fair share of
problems; but we have fought through them to attain
record sales and profits. Although the Directors’
Report and Accounts speak for themselves, I feel I
should review some aspects of our business in greater
detail.
1. THE SALES PICTURE
The modern way of smoking was pioneered in Aus-
tralia by Rothmans in 1956. Since then most new
brands have been king size or filter-tipped, and even
using a similar type of package. Perhaps this is
flattering.
Again, in the past year, several new brands made in
Australia have come forward with various claims,
and there has been an unprecedented and prolonged
volume of competitive advertising. What has been
the effect of all this on our sales?
THESE ARE FACTS:
• The retail value of our cigarette sales (we do not
sell other tobacco products) rose to more than
£80,000,000. This was an increase of more than
20% in volume, and there was a constant upward
trend throughout the year,
• The most significant gains came after March,
1962, when the smoking and health controversy
became very lively.
• Rothmans King Size Filter enjoyed a substan-
tial sales increase as No. 1 seller of all brands
on this market. Rothmans King Size Plain like-
wise cemented its lead as the No. 1 plain brand,
while Peter Stuyvesant made spectacular gains.
Thus, the three largest-selling brands in Aus-
tralia in their respective fields come from your
Company.
• Our share of the total market increased.
There is no mystery about these sales increases.
The total market increased, and we increased our
share of that market. It is true some competitors
may show increases in total or for a brand, but any
such claims have to be assessed against this back-
ground:
• Rothmans is the only company to give a pub-
lished assessment of the market, stating its
share. Indeed, we have shown the actual figures
to the Press.
• The volume involved in such competitive claims
is small. For example, if a company or a brand


has, say, 5% of the market, a 20% increase is not
material.
• Any such movements are not at the expense of this
Company or any of its brands.
Indeed, the passage of time has shown that the more
vigorous the competition, the more we thrive.
2. PRODUCT QUALITY
We have always prided ourselves that we make only
quality brands, and this faith is shared by more
than half the smokers in Australia. Quality control
is, therefore, vital to us. Quality control does not
happen merely because tobacco goes through some
particular process or machine—it rests on personal
factors. We have constant daily checks on more
than 200 points, and we safeguard quality in every
possible respect, regardless of the effect on profits.
Suffice it to say that our marked success in export
markets shows we can and do match the quality
of cigarettes made in England, U.S.A. or elsewhere.
There is a very simple answer to product quality,
which gets down to pounds, shillings and pence:
• Rothmans have consistently paid an average
price for Australian leaf well above the floor
average. Growers in Australia and overseas know
we will buy quality leaf only.
© Because of our huge volume of sales, our unit
costs of selling and advertising are the lowest
in the industry and a great deal lower than any
major competitive brand. When these costs are
too high, the only other material economy is to
buy inferior grades of leaf which are cheaper.
• Our profit is less than one penny per pack.
This explains why we are strong and our sales are
strong—quality and value go into the product.
3. PROFITS
Consolidated net profit, after tax, rose by more than
£114,000 over 1961 —about 10%, after much higher
charges for depreciation and taxation.
This simple statement does not reflect the full
measure of our achievement, because we absorbed
very considerable extra costs (over £400,000 in fact)
in handling the expansion of the Australian tobacco
crop in 1961.
This becomes a cogent factor in looking at our
current earning rate, because it was suggested in one
or two places we were securing our sales increases
at too high a cost.
That is not so. It is coincidental that the big
increases in the Australian crop took place as our
sales were striding forward, and we had no escape
from the extra cost situation.
The issue is outside our control, though we are
hopeful some equitable relief will be forthcoming
soon. The message should be clear that our sub-
stantial increase in volume enabled us to maintain
quality and to absorb such costs without affecting
the price to consumers.
4. SMOKING AND HEALTH
The report issued in the United Kingdom by the
Royal College of Physicians received a great deal of
publicity, although it presented no new information.
The report has, indeed, been seriously questioned
in many quarters, but, without decrying it in any
way, certain points stand out clearly:
• The conclusions were essentially based on a
review of United Kingdom statistics for some
years past. The scientific situation about what is
known and what is unknown is unchanged.
• The new, modern cigarette, which is king size
and mostly filter-tipped, is not and could not be
involved in this statistical exercise.
• The report acknowledges that substances which
“may be injurious to health” have not been
identified, and that “most smokers enjoy smok-
ing without injury to their health.”
There has been much loose and uninformed talk
on this subject. For example, from one quarter it
was suggested that the quantity of “solids” in
tobacco smoke was a measure of the degree of purity
or quality of a cigarette. There was a quaint sug-
gestion, too, that “solids” meant the same thing
as “tars.”
The term “solids” embraces numerous substances;
and the truth is that a cigarette with a low “solids”


content may contain the most substances which a
good quality cigarette avoids.
Moreover, different methods of analysis can and do
yield totally different results, and can be thoroughly
misleading to anyone other than experts in this field.
Yardsticks of this kind are really meaningless, how-
ever logical or scientific they may appear to be.
The whole subject is complex and involves highly
scientific questions—there is no simple answer which
can be isolated from other considerations, and that
is why we will not enter into public debate on
the issue.
We felt, however, that you should be given a realistic
presentation of the matter, coupled with the reassur-
ing fact that our sales have gained further strength
despite such incidents and sundry rumours which
have no foundation.
We rest on the fact that we know the standard of
our products is unmatched in Australia.
5. RESEARCH
Leadership in this industry depends not on the
extent, but on the scientific skill and imagination
with which research is conducted.
We spend a lot of money in comprehensive research
into all aspects of the industry—through o-ur own
organisation and through independent agencies such
as universities. We also get the full benefit of the
very extensive research in our associated companies
overseas. In the current year we are spending over
£150,000 to extend our own facilities.
The result of these very tangible efforts is that our
management is kept in a state of advance know-
ledge on all potential developments, and when they
are proved, we are flexible enough to move decisively
and with speed.
6. COMMUNITY EFFORT
I have often expressed the belief that companies are
citizens of the community and must accordingly
accept community responsibility as individuals do.
In pursuit of this philosophy we have been very
active in encouraging many important features of
community life.
In a practical form we have endeavoured to foster
availability of finance for the development of small
and medium businesses. Already our investments,
though limited, take us from the Northern Territory
through to Tasmania in various fields.
We have given substantial support to many cultural
and educational projects including music, art and
the sciences. Our University Endowment Fund, to
which we are giving a sum of £125,000, is being
devoted to research fellowships of substance,
designed to retain in Australia outstanding people
who might otherwise be lost to overseas countries.
In other directions, we have given material aid to
numerous charities and to very worthy organisa-
tions such as the Surf Life Saving Association of
Australia.
Currently we have undertaken the task of printing
the Souvenir Programmes and the Daily Programmes
for the Commonwealth Games to be held in Perth in
November. The revenue from these programmes will
be received by the Commonwealth Games Committee
free of any deductions for printing or other costs.
7. WHAT OF THE FUTURE?
From the day we commenced business, we have faced
and overcome many major difficulties. Today, we
are stronger than ever before.
We are a young and virile company, concentrating
on our primary business of cigarette manufacturers.
The natural increase in the cigarette market should,
in itself, assure us of considerable growth as each
year goes by, but now we are gathering financial
strength, I have no doubt we will seize carefully-
selected opportunities to add to our strength and
earning power. Nor would I like it to be thought we
will not require further capital from our shareholders,
though we will always seek the safest and most
efficient way of financing our business.
It would be foolish to predict the outcome of the
oncoming year, but we start it with a buoyant sales
picture, with good profits already in this year, and
with an efficient, well-trained organisation. We
expect that our record of progress will continue.
R. A. Irish,
Chairman.
* The Chairman of Directors, Mr. R. A. Irish, presented the
foregoing statement to shareholders at the Annual General
Meeting on 30th August, 1962.


FINANCE
CORPORATION
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in South Australia)
FULLY SECURED
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
7£%
PER ANNUM 10 YEARS
5f%
PER ANNUM 2 YEARS
Prospectuses should be
obtained from and applications made to: —
JOINT BANKERS TO THE ISSUE
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
Members of the Stock Exchanges
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney,
Perth
Applications for Debenture Stock can be accepted only
on the printed form attached to the prospectus.
U 476
ONE TO BUY
With the markets clearly biding their
time before take-off and a complete
pattern of business recovery not yet
wholly established, there's still no i -ed
for even the most careful investor to
stay out of action altogether. And he
does not have to assume an entirely de-
fensive attitude either. Away from the
big ones there are many stocks yielding
well, with growth not far around the cor-
ner and resistant to heavy market drift.
Century Storage Battery Co. Ltd
attracts on all of these counts. The ss.
shares have been as low as 11s. both this
year and last. Current levels are around
a healthy 14s. to yield 5.4 p.c. on a 15
p.c. dividend. On this price, earnings
yield stands at 8 p.c.
Entrants now may keep in mind 1961 ’s
top price of 16s. 3d. and a peak of 20s.
in 1960. They could look somewhat
askance at directors’ decision in 1960-61
to lop a 2i p.c. bonus element off the
dividend, which had been held at 17i
p.c. since 1958. But in defence of
liquidity, and subsequent progress, the
move seems reasonably justified.
For though there came in February a
report of lower sales and profits in the
December half-year, directors could
happily indicate a genuine improvement
in the second half-year. Most interest-
ingly, results from the enterprising
Malayan subsidiary, founded in 1959,
were exceeding expectations.
While on accounting details, it is worth
emphasising the excellent dividend cover
over many years. The company has an
unbroken record since 1937. The 1960-
61 financial year produced only a slight
profit increase—up £1227 to £93,044.
Yet this represented an earning rate of
22.5 p.c. on capital. The three previous
years had seeen earning rates at 22.8,
22.6 and 24 p.c.
Though the company has been
financed from internal sources since
1956, shareholders were well treated with
issues until then. A two-for-three bonus
came along in November 1950 and the
last cash issue in September 1956 was on
a two-for-seven basis. The books dis-
close no long-term liabilities.
All in all every evidence is given of
quite conservative accounting, with re-
cent tax provisions indicating a fair
amount of earnings tucked away.
Directors explained the recent sales
lapse as only to be expected from the
direction of the company’s major out-
put—the motor and building trades. One
at least of these industries is now dis-
playing a most decided pick-up and bene-
fits from both should duly arrive.
Longer-term development has not been
shunned either, since the group has
entered the manufacture of zinc sheets,
strips, guttering and downpipes. Valuable
custom has arrived from Government
and industrial building, least affected
throughout the squeeze.
Special interest attaches to Century’s
foundation of a battery industry in
Malaya. The subsidiary, as indicated
above doing well, is 55 p.c. owned by
Century and 45 p.c. by Malayan inves-
tors. It takes the benefit of five years’
exemption from Malayan income tax.
Evident growth prospects eventually
await shareholders in this company. At
the least, too, directors may well intend
to restore that 17i p.c. dividend rate in
the near future.


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
TELEVISION BROADCASTERS LTD
HOW LONG BEFORE GLAMOUR FADES?
npHE October 1959 forecast by Sir Lloyd
Dumas, chairman of Television
Broadcasters Ltd, Adelaide, that the com-
pany would “operate at a profit, though
not an extravagent one, within three
years” has been well and truly vindi-
cated.
Commercial telecasting was com-
menced by the company’s station ADS-7
in October 1959. A profit was produced in
the first full year of operations thereafter,
for the period to June 30, 1961, despite
the incidence of credit restrictions with
its deleterious effect on all commercial
media.
This has been consolidated by the latest
result for 1961-62 when liability for taxa-
tion was estimated at £54,000, deprecia-
tion and provision for other contingencies
£BO,OOO (slightly more than allowed for
tax purposes), leaving a net profit of
£67,475.
The tax liability in the previous year
had, because of previous losses, been
low at £28,000, so that after deprecia-
tion of £75,000, the net profit of £77,522
was actually higher than in the period
under review.
The loss carried forward from previous
years, £6401, has now been obliterated,
and directors declared a maiden dividend
of 8 p.c. from 1961-62 profit, requiring
£60,000.
Original sponsors were Advertiser
Newspapers Ltd, with 40 p.c. of the
capital, and SKA Broadcasting Co. Ltd,
Philips Electrical Industries Pty and
Associated Newspapers Ltd of UK. The
public were offered 900,000 ss. shares,
bringing paid capital to £750,000.
(The paid capital of the other Adelaide
Telecaster, Southern Television Corpora-
tion Ltd, is £250,000, and in the years to
June 30, 1961—the last result available —
it earned a profit of £100,779 after
£45,614 tax and £51,846 depreciation and
paid a maiden dividend of 10 p.c.).
In his second annual address to share-
holders in 1960, the chairman had
cautioned that the fabulous profits made
by television companies in London, or
even Sydney and Melbourne, should not
be expected in a community such as
Adelaide’s, with two commercial stations
competing for the available business.
Directors asserted, however, that the
company would grow with the population
and investors would get reasonable
returns.
Eighty per cent, of South Australia’s
population reside within the range of
ADS-7 transmission. It has a potential
audience therefore of approximately
800,000 people. At June 30, 1962
130,669 TV licences had been issued in
SA, which together with 13,095 licences
to short term hirers, gives an estimated
penetration of around 73 p.c.
TV may be extended to two country
areas in SA in Phase Four of television
development— to the Mt Gambier area
and the Spencers Gulf —but income-wise
this should have very little effect on Tele-
vision Broadcasters.
Applications have been called for a
third commercial TV licence in Adelaide,
and an enquiry will be heard later this
year. Although the older-established
stations have a head start on any new-
comer, most technical problems have
been ironed out. However, another com-
pany to share the cake must mean a limit
to the plums for Television Broadcasters’
shareholders.
An earning rate of 9 p.c. on capital
allows little margin for building up re-
serves, although depreciation provisions
in each year may have been more than
adequate.
It is rare for the market to be able to
compare two companies with such
similarity of structure and interests as
Television Broadcasters and Southern
Television.
In the absence of Southern Television’s
1962 results, comparisons can only be
made on estimates. But assuming last
year’s performance of a profit of about
£100,000 (40 p.c. earning rate) is repeat-
ed, as was suggested by the interim
report, the price of Southern Television’s
5s. shares should be approximately three
times that of Television Broadcasters’
shares.
Southern Television shares recently
sold at 18s. 6d. to give an income yield
of 2.7 p.c. and earnings yield of 10.8 p.c.
On this basis, a more realistic price level
for Television Broadcasters 5s. shares
would be six or seven shillings to yield
between 5.7 p.c. and 6.6 p.c., instead of
the 11s. to 11s. 4d. at which these shares
have been traded lately.
The fact that only 30 p.c. of the shares
are available to the public puts a scarcity
value on these shares, but this also applies
to Southern Television. How long will it
be before the glamour, which attaches to
all aspects of television, fades from inves-
tors’ eyes?
ACCOUNTS SUMMARIES £’000
June 30 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 38 242 418 414
Less current liabilities 3 243 289 234
Working capital 35 —1 129 180
Investments 516 nil nil nil
Fixed assets 165 653 601 557
Intangible assets 14 14 14 14
730 666 744 751
Represented by:
Ordinary capital 750 750 750 750
Reserves —20 —84 —6 1
730 666 744 751
Depreciation nil 77 75 80
Taxation nil nil 28 54
Net Earnings —20 —64 78 67
Ordinary Dividend nil nil nil 60
Earning p.c. nil nil 10.4 9
Dividend p.c. nil nil nil 8
Dividend yield (a) nil nil nil 3.5
High price (b) N/L 20/8 19/4V 2 15/
Low price (b) N/L 8/8y2 11/6 11/10
(a) End of August, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.
N/L not listed.
LEND LEASE CORPORATION LTD.
LONG LINE OF SUCCESSES
A recent announcement that Lend
Lease Corporation Ltd. will extend
its Homes Division to Melbourne, by
establishment of a model village at Don-
caster, similar to the one at Carlingford
(NSW), is evidence of the success of a
relatively new branch of its activities.
Directors had previously intimated to
pressmen that it was not their intention
to move into construction of individual
housing units. But apparently they are
not averse to departing from firmly laid
principles if circumstances warrant, and
they can see opportunities for profit
making.
The Lend Lease home designs and
service of materials and a franchise
builder to carry out the construction,
resulted in sales of over £2l million in
the first nine months of operation in
Sydney. At balance date homes worth
£600,000 were under construction.
This indicates that Lend Lease could
attain the same degree of success in indi-
vidual housing as it has in larger-scale
construction projects, by virtue of its
efforts in co-ordination of design and
construction planning.
Previously management was concerned
in the housing field more with the idea
of redeveloping inner city areas and con-
structing multi-storeyed home unit


Invitation to Manufacturers
requiring
PRESTIGE REPRESENTATION
®
Well-known Group with established Australia-wide sales organisation is seek-
ing additional Agencies or Distributorships. Products should be allied to
current sales activities which are directed to Builders, Contractors, Architects,
Public Utilities and Industry generally.
Sales force is backed by strong technical advisory and design service.
Ample liquid resources available. Modern offices, good store capacity and
well-maintained delivery fleet are in keeping with status and standing of
Group.
Agencies sought on Commonwealth or State basis with satisfactory term of
agreement.
Please address inquiries to:
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
C/- Box 2422, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
blocks. To date it has not had much
chance to show its paces in redevelop-
ment (no decision having been made on
tenders for The Rocks), although man-
agement places much store by the bene-
fits which would accrue to the company
from projects of such size and duration.
And a relatively minor part of the
group’s resources is involved in home
unit construction.
The Australia Square (Sydney) project
(totalling £l2 million) incorporating a 45
storey tower of office space, shops and
parking, may be altered to include some
housing accommodation following a very
recent proposal to change Sydney s build-
ing rules.
As a project management commission,
the Carlingford subdivision is being
undertaken jointly with Consolidated
Press Ltd. Total project cost of develop-
ing the 100 acre site, known as Kings-
dene Estate, is £1 million.
The annual report for the year to
June 30, to be presented to shareholders
on August 31, catalogues the company’s
just completed and current projects.
Commercial Union Assurance Co ot
Australia Ltd is sharing the equity in
the £3 million project at 109 Pitt Street,
also a project management commission.
Development projects completed during
1961-62 included Canberra office build-
ings and the Federal Shopping Mall. The
office building at 187 Macquarie Street
should be completed next month.
Subdivisions and industrial and hous-
ing estates have been released for sale at
Merewethcr. St. Ives, Campbelltown and
Padstow.
At balance date seven projects were
under construction wort'. C 7.3 million in
total, of which £2.4 million was retail,
£2 million high density housing, £300,000
subdivision and housing estates, and £2.6
million office buildings. Sixteen more
projects were in the planning stage worth
£13.8 million, of which more than half
was retail building.
Substantial increase was achieved in
sales and profits of the construction
division, despite the lack of business
confidence and the postponement by
companies of their expansion plans. At
balance date contracts worth £19.3
million for civil engineering, industrial
and commercial constructions were in
hand, of which £12.5 million was un-
completed.
Overall profits of the industrial divi-
sion were lower because of reduced
earnings from J. Connolly Ltd and
establishment losses of Lite-Crete Aggre-
gates Pty Ltd and Autobric Industries
Pty Ltd. Emphasis will be put on cost
reductions to improve profitability in
future.
The investment division controls the
freehold and leasehold properties
retained for long-term investment, and
supervises the group’s investments in
Richardson and Wrench Ltd and
Kosciusko Thredbo Pty Ltd. The latter
company, controlling Thredbo village, is
expected to yield good results within
two years.
Total revenue for the year to June 30
trebled, and a breakdown into the various
activities was given for the first time
41 p.c. was derived from construction,
37 p.c. from development including
homes, 3 p.c. from finance, 7 p.c. from
the industrial division and 12 p.c. from
investments.
The profit of £580,693 was arrived at
after providing £428,518 for tax and
£116,878 for depreciation and amortisa-
tion of long-term investments and fixed
assets. Investment in plant and equip-
ment increased by £1,377,884 to
£1,749,223 over the year, so next year’s
depreciation should be a very much
heavier charge on profits.
The one-for-four issue currently on
offer provides good buying opportunities.
The many takeovers are at last catching
up with the company. Once tightly held
by the Dutch company, Bredero’s, and
Australian institutions, there are now
over 8000 shareholders on the register,
quite a number of whom are there by
accident rather than design. They should
be well-pleased with the turn of events,
but may not necessarily want to sub-
scribe to additional shares.
Likewise original shareholders, who
have had a three-for-two, a one-for-two
and a one-for-three issue all at par,
plus a one-for-four issue at 50 p.c. pre-
mium offered to them only in April of
last year, may not be able to invest
further.
The rights can be had for about 4s. 9d.
with ss. capital and ss. premium to pay,
giving entry for 14s. 9d. to yield just
over 3.3 p.c. The conditions which pro-
duced last year’s fall to 11s. 3d. should
not recur quickly. This calendar year,
1962, the price has been as high as
23s. 2d., and before rights trading closes
on September 12, a comparatively
economical purchase could be made.
Frequent share issues will continue to
be a feature of this company’s financial
progress, for its cannot afford to rely too
heavily on loan capital. The earning rate
has held firm on past capital increments,
so the stock is no less attractive than in
the very early stages of its listing.
In four full years of operations the
group has blazed an imaginative trail in
the fields of construction and develop-
ment. It has employed techniques new
to this country which have been spec-
tacularly successful and its dynamic
management will not allow it to settle
into a rut of self-satisfaction. There are
many more barriers to break — both
geographical and technical — and the
company has the necessary equipment.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARIES £’000
June 30 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 715 3739 9261 10851
Less current liabilities . . 128 1730 3725 5504
Working capital 587 2009 5536 5347
Investments — 197 357 2797
Fixed assets 2 651 1621 2663
Intangibles — 37 115 174
Total capital 589 2894 7629 10981
Represented by:
Lean capital 324 1532 4119 5771
Minority interests — 3 153 —
Capital 250 783 1970 3001
Reserves 15 576 1387 2209
589 2894 7629 10981
Total Revenue 461 2170 4585 13537
Depreciation — 3 31 117
Taxation 18 74 193 429
Net Earnings 24 127 267 581
Capital Profit — — 54 —
Dividend 11 60 125 271
Surplus 13 67 196 310
Earning Rate p.c. ...... 17.2 21.7 21.4 21.5
Dividend Rate p.c 8 10 10 10
Dividend Yield p.c. (a) .. 2.7 2.2 2.8 —
High Price (b) .... 8/- (c) 26/8(c) 24/6 20/11/2
Low Price (.b) 5/4(c) 8/l(c) 10/9 11/3
(a) End of August, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.
(C) Adjusted for share split.


Prices
Par
Last
Div.
Div.
Earn.
Earn
Company
Value
Sale
24/8/62
31/8/62
Rate
Yield
Rate
Yield
1961
P.c
p.c.
p.c.
P c
Amalgamated Chemicals
5/
14/3
18/1
19/3
12%
3.3
21.4
5.5
A.W.A
5/
20/4%
20/
19/6
14
3.6
22
5.7
Ampol .. . . ..
5/
11/4
12/
11/9
14
6
19
8.1
A.R.C
..
10/
46/3
47/
47/
15
3.2
29.7
6.4
Associated Pulp
20/
29/3
29/6
29/
6
4.1
6.3
4.3
Aust. Chemicals ..
10/
30/4%
23/6
23/6
12%
5.3
21.5
9.1
AC.I
20/
72/6
64/
63/
8-1/3
2.6
14.5
4.6
Aust. Guarantee ..
5/
14/
13/6%
14/2
15
5.3
19-
6.7
Aust. Gypsum ..
5/
14/3
14/4
13/3
10
3.8
15.9
5.6
A.P.M
20/
25/3
23/2
23/6%
8-1/3
7
11.9
10.1
Bank N.S.W
£20
£34
£40%
£41%
9
4.4
12.2
5.9
Bitumen and Oil ..
• • • •
5/
24/
23/6
23/3
17%
3.7
32
5.6
Blue Metal Ind. .
• • • •
5/
22/7%
21/6
21/6
15
3.5
27.6
6.5
Bradford Cotton ..
5/
7/6
6/9
6/10
10
7.3
11.2
8.1
British Tobacco ..
• • • •
20/
25/
25/6
25/3
9
7.1
9.7
7.7
B.H.P.
20/
69/
54/6
55/3
6%
2.3
13.7
6.9
Burns Philp .. ..
20/
91/
99/
98/6
10
2
18.6
3.7
C.b.R.
20/
59%a
48/3
49/3
9%
3.9
14.8
5.9
C.A.G.A
5/
11/3
10/5
10/5
10
4.8
12.4
6
C.I.G.
- • * t
20/
£5
93/
92/
11
2.5
25.3
5.5
Commercial Union
t * * 9
5/
19/3
20/1
20/5
6%
1.6
18.4
4.5
Concrete Ind.
• . • •
5/
15/1%
13/9
13/6
10
3.7
16.6
6.2
C.R.A
Custom Credit
Cyclone .. . ]
Dalgety-N.Z. Loan
David Jones ..
Drug Houses
Dunlop Rubber
Elder G. M. .. .
Electronic "B”
Email
E.Z. ind. ..
• • ••
5/
7/6
7/3
7/6
10
6.7
11.8
8.2
5/
5/
10/
25/
5/
20/
20/
10/
10/
13/
26/
18/9
69/
35/
13/3
16/3
10/1
20/
36/
17/9
70/
41/9
16/11
16/1
10/9
20 6
40/9
17/9
70/
42/
15/8
16/6
12
15
10
8
12%
11%
10
8
12%
3.7
6.9
4.9
4.9
3.5
3.2
4.8
5.2
7.6
18.2
17.7
13.9
28.7
17.7
16
8.4
8.6
8.2
6.8
5.3
7.6
..
5/
7/6
7/7
7/7
10
6.6
11
6.2
10/
12/11
12/6
12/6
10
8
12.4
10
Pelt and Textiles .
G. J. Coles
H. C. Sleigh ..
Henry Jones .. ..
H. G Palmer .. . t
Howard Smith
Humes
I A C
5/
6/11
7/8
7/9
10
6.5
13.9
9
5/
13/6
13/4
13/2
11
4.2
15.1
5.7
5/
11/
11/
10/8
12%
5.8
13.4
6.2
• • ••
20/
80/
76/9
74/
10
2.7
28.6
7.7
5/
20/
15/6
54/
16/11
46/6
16/8
46/6
12%
10
3.7
4.3
33.4
13.6
10
4.3
20/
70/6
76/6
76/6
14
3.6
21.8
6.4
I.C I A N Z
5/
13/4
14/1
10/7
11-2/3
7.9
20.6
9.7
20/
38/
38/6
39/6
7
3.5
9.7
4.3
Kandos Cement
10/
5/
15/3
18/
19/
18 6
18/6
8
12%
4.3
3.3
10.4
13.5
5.6
6.6
5/
18/3
18/
18/
15
4.1
28.6
7.9
•* * *
5/
20/
14/11
15/
10
3.3
21.5
7.1
Mercantile Credits
5/
5/
7/
8/8
3/7%
9/6
4/
9/5
12%
5.3
1.1*
14.9
1.4
8.8
* * * *
20/
47/
38 6
38/6
8-1/3
4.3
12.4
5.8
Moulded Products
10/
62/
74/
74/
20
2.7
40.4
5.4
5/
13/2
14/8
14/8
14
4.8
17.8
6
5/
71/6
67/6
68/
25
1.8
62.8
4.6
Myer
* * # '
5/
8/10
10/10
10/9
15
7
22.5
10.5
National Consolidated
• • • •
5/
29/
30/9
30/8
16-2/3
2.7
28.3
4.7
Olympic Industries
* *
5/
27/
26/
26/
20
4
35.3
7
Peters (Vic.) .. ..
5/
7/7
10/7
10/8
10
4.6
16.2
7.5
Petrochemical
• * *
2/
8/6
8/1
8/
15
3.7
18.9
4.7
R.M. Concrete
• 1
20/
26/
27/3
27/9
6
4.3
5.9
4.2
Reid Murray .]
• • • •
5 /
17/4%
15/10
15/11
12%
3.9
22.9
7.1
Repco ..
5/
8/3
3/1
3/
—
—
9.4
15 8
Rothmans
5/
12/5
14/4
14/6
11-2/3
3.4
18.8
6.1
Thiess
10/
87/6a
72/6a
35 3
17%
5
33.1
9 4
Tooth
5/
13/
11/
10/
12%
6.2
14.4
5.3
Union Carbide
20/
69/
69/3
68/
13%
4.4
15.9
5.5
Waltons
20/
80/
56/3
58/
10
3.6
15.9
5.7
Woolworths
5 /
13/8
14/3
14/6
1 3%
4.3
21.7
7.4
Wormald
5/
15/4
13/8xR
14 3
12
4.2
15.4
5.4
W. R. Carpenter ..
.. ..
5/
5/
11/10
30/
11 /II
33/9
11/9
33/3
10
15
4.2
2.2
14.2
35.1
6.7
5.5
* Estimated on last
xR Ex rights
a Before share split
half-year
’s profit
xn Ex dividend
t Mid price
SYDNEY
STOCK EXCHANGE
INDICES
Banks.
Other
Base
All
etc.
Finance
Pastoral
Retailers
Metals
Ords.*
Industrials
December 22
. 1961 .. 137.37
541.02
182.31
389.15
604.15
299 07
318 74
AUgUSt
24,
1962
. . 157.79
563.75
177.90
365.89
541.77
290.42
304 13
27,
1962
.. 158.99
564.60
178.17
367.24
545.29
290.59
303 95
August
28,
1962
. . 159.32
564.15
180.65
369.85
545.07
291.53
304 84
29,
1962
. . 159.21
567.03
180.47
371.66
547 47
292.20
305.47
August
30,
1962
.. 159.88
564.48
180.78
368.43
546 43
291.84
305 41
31,
1962
. . 159.91
564.65
179.82
368.32
547.85
292.47
306.31
* Peak
348.46 September 16, 1960.
MELBOURNE
STOCK
EXCHANGE
AVERAGE YIELD
ON 100. ORDINARY SHARES
-50 Other Stocks—
-Random—
Sample
Div. Yield Earn. Yield
Div. Yield Earn. Yield
December
August 24.
August 27,
August 28.
August 29,
August 30,
August 31,
2, 1961
1962
1962
1962
1962
1962
1982
• • •
4.26
4.44
4.43
4.41
4.43
4.41
4.43
6.13
6.36
6.38
6.36
6.35
6.34
6.37
5.30
5.17
5.16
5.15
5.14
5.13
5.14
7.46
2.40
2.26
2.43
2.40
2.43
2.52
LEADING SHARE PRICES
SHARE PRICES STILL
MOVE SLOWLY
Investors, at least the relatively few
who remain alive and kicking, are
thankful for small mercies these days. It’s
not that, deep in their hearts, they want
the market to gallop furiously once more.
But they have certainly been pining for
some signs of equity action, especially
those who have not succumbed to the
modish doctrine of fixed-interests.
Consequently last week’s closing firm-
ness produced a flicker of joy probably
out of proportion to its still rather tenu-
ous foundation.
In Sydney, five successive days of
overall rises were certainly nothing to
sneer at. Yet the skeleton of recent
activity does not yet give genuine evi-
dence of being properly articulated.
Wider ranges and more ample turn-
overs must ensue to give it proper
body.
That much vaunted confidence and
curiosity has not really returned, nor
can it be observed on the close horizon.
Sharemarkets need more than extreme
choosiness to set them going—a kind of
risk element is wanted. Such a climate
looks impossible at present.
The spirit, they say, bloweth where it
listeth and sharemarketwise, as they also
say, it blows from selective stock to
selective stock without a great deal of
design. One or two profit successes
attract a brief measure of attention and
then the urge seems to lapse.
Some hopes were hung out early in the
week of a little spurt among leaders.
The sprint could not sustain itself very
far. BHP and CSR advanced slightly
on prevailing levels, but equally ACI
and Henry Jones slipped back. Even
Humes, after some success, could only
finish steady.
Union Carbide's expected blow may
spread further scepticism around chemi-
cals, but Amalgamated Chemicals’ pro-
mise last week also gave a glow, for
instance to ICI Union, of course, has
been uneasy for quite a while and now
the full report has arrived to add fuel
to the interim.
New bank charges, a topic of exten-
sive discussion outside the market, added
practically nothing to the share situation.
Earlier flutters have long since been re-
solved and here again there exists a
measure of “wait and see.”
One particular broker’s letter does pro-
vide an overstatement which, we hope,
need not last too long: “In times of
depression the Americans coined the
phrase ‘defensive stocks.’ This aptly des-
cribes the type of investment which is
now being sought in our market.”


MARKETING
MECHANICS OF EXPORTING
REVEALED AT SEMINAR
nPHE “Export and Grow” seminar held
in Sydney last week fortunately gave
many signs of reaching much closer to
practicality than earlier conferences of
this kind. Its organisers, the Australian
Institute of Management and the Aus-
tralian Institute of Cost Accountants,
seemed to have realised that the time
for mere exhortation has gone. Business-
men need to be brought down to the
sheer mechanics of exporting and to be
taught all the weapons in the export
armoury.
At the end one still retained an
impression that a great number of com-
panies still have a long, long path to
tread before they become properly know-
ledgeable about export demands. Such a
view w r as reinforced by a stream of some-
what elementary questions asked at the
closing forum. Executives should
already have been aware of much of the
information the seminar wms apparently
prepared to give.
Judging by some comments also, there
exists a tremendous necessity to bring
home to Australian executives the brute
competitiveness w'hich will distinguish
our most obvious new export markets.
Quite a few observers thought that boom
and easy local conditions had weakened
the requisite fierce desire to sell, Manu-
facturers cannot petulantly complain
about increased domestic competition
and perhaps bring themselves into an
attitude of not being willing to face much
more bitter competition outside.
Be that as it may, the seminar attemp-
ted to provide a thoroughly stiff back-
bone to possible export programmes.
Apart from the organisational and finan-
cial elements involved, by far the most
valuable detail was provided by a series
of case histories. One or two of these
really brought exporting down to the
most desirable grass roots —the individ-
ual and separate firm.
Companies presenting this kind of in-
formation were Repco, Moulded Pro-
ducts, Rocla Pipes, Cornelius Furs,
Rothmans and Speedo. It is impossible
in this space to summarise their
extremely valuable insights. Perhaps
Repco, as put forward by a director,
Mr P. J. Rosenblum, may be taken to
give one or two hints.
Mr Rosenblum particularly empha-
sised, so far as his company was con-
cerned, the marked virtues of decentral-
• ,
ised control. Each sectional manager is
charged with developing the "export
markets'* for his products “to the greatest
degree possible, commensurate of course
with his prime responsibility of returning
an adequate profit on the funds invested
in his business.”
With this kind of approach, the sub-
sidiary Repco Export Co. Pty Ltd fulfils
the function of an export agent—dealing
with paperwork, shipping, consolidation
of orders and so. It plays almost no part
in sales piomotion or selling divisional
products. The most effective selling re-
suits “have been achieved by the
\igoious, enthusiastic effort of the indivi-
dual company salesmen- specialists in
their particular line.
Repco quite early on realised the
necessity of extra export volume to keep
its iactory capacity fully occupied and
formed its export subsidiary as early as
3947—" virtually squeezing a very
limited supply out of our factories for
export." Mr Rosenblum furnished a full
analysis ot the moves into a great variety
of countries, with a valuable survey in
particular of South-East Asia—“ Austr-
alia's ultimate natural market.” We can
only urge those interested and willing to
study his survey most carefully.
"1 he most important advice we could
give to any organisation contemplating
export is to give it everything you've got
—any half-hearted, tongue-in-cheek
approach would be doomed to failure be-
fore it was born,” Mr Rosenblum vigor-
ously maintained.
One thing patently visible throughout
seminar deliberations was the efficient
and comprehensive services available
through the Department of Trade. Given
the will, there is really nothing to pre-
vent that vital development of manufac-
tured exports, for to these a good deal of
conference concentration was given.
63 p.c. OF ALL ADVERTISING
GOES INTO NEWSPAPERS
/George Patterson Pty Ltd, largest
advertising agency in Australia,
will soon produce another booklet in
which it estimates the advertising ex-
penditures in the principal media in
Australia for the calendi year 1961.
The agency’s deputy-managing direc-
tor (Mr R. R. Walker) points out that
as there is no single sour< from which
to obtain any information, it has pain-
stakingly assembled these figures from
many sources believed to be reliable,
but any analysis must allow for margins
of error, particularly in media like out-
door and direct mail.
Probably for the first time in ten
years, the upward curve in Australian
advertising expenditures was halted in
1961, largely due to the Federal Gov-
ernment’s tighter credit policies.
Of the three principal media, only
television showed any marked increase.
Press (including magazines) declined
relatively although the decreased
space usage was offset substantially by
rate increases. Radio remained about
stationary.
Although included in previous esti-
mates for 1959, merchandising and sales
promotion expenditures have been de-
leted from this summary, largely because
of difficulties of definition and measure-
ment.
Estimated production expenditures for
Press (£7,000,000) Television (£],-
100,000) and Radio (£170.000) are in-
cluded in the following totals.
“These figures would account, in part,
for the difference between these esti-
mates for 1961 and the estimates pub-
lished by the Australian Association of
Advertising Agencies for 1960,” Mr
Walker says.
“In our opinion,” Mr Walker said,
the figures by the 4 A's for direct mail
and country Press were overstated.
However, it cannot be emphasised too
often that lacking centralised sources of
recording, collation and interpretation,
all figures for advertising expenditures
in this country, both by category and in
total, must of necessity remain estimates
only.”
SUMMARY OF ADVERTISING EXPENDITURES
FOR CALENDAR YEAR 196)
Television 54,700,000 14.700,000 13 1
adl ° 10,920,000 10,920,000 9 8
Press
Metropolitan Doilies 44,911,000
Sunday Newspapers
Women's Magazines 4,539,000
General Magazines 1,297,000
Rural Weeklies 1,677,000
Country Newspapers 4,220,000
Trade Publications 4,000,000
Other Publications 4,000,000
~ 70,959,000 63.5
Outdoor 8,500,000 8,500,000 7 6
Cinema 3,650,000 3.650 000 3 3
Direct Mail 3,000,000 3,000,000 2.7
£111,729,000 100%


Lega! Notices
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
No. 556 of 1962
TO: VIVIEN NEWTON Co-Respondent.—TAKE
NOTICE that BERNICE JOAN HOLMES has
filed a petition for Divorce No. 556 of 1962 on
the ground of Adultery. If you wish to defend
you may enter an answer in the Divorce Registry,
Mint Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney by the
12th day of October 1962 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from Kevin Ellis
and Price, Solicitors, Challis Hcuse. 19 Martin
Place, Sydney. BL 2381.—C. A. H. HARMS.
Registrar.
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
No. 556 of 1959
TO: REGENT ORMOND HOLMES Respondent
TAKE NOTICE that BERNICE .JOAN HOLMES
has filed a petition for Divorce No. 556 of 1962
on the ground of Adultery. If you wish to defend
you may enter an answer in the Divorce Regis-
try, Mint Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney
by' the 12th day of October 1962 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from Kevin
Ellis and Price, Solicitors, Challis House, 10
Martin Place, Sydney. BL 2381.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: MARJORIE GWEN HARVEY TAKE
NOTICE that WILLIAM KENNETH HARV~ ’
has filed a Petition for divorce No. 1523
1962 on the ground of desertion. If you wish
to defend you may file an answer in the
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Build-
ing, Macquarie Street, Sydney, by the 20th
day of October 1962 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from MCDONALD &
MCDONALD, Solicitors, 17 Bolton Street,
Newcastle, or JOHN CORCORAN & CO.,
Solicitors, 2 York Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OP NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
No. 2224 of 1962
To MANSEL FELLOWS LINGWOOD late Of
Scone.—TAKE NOTICE that MAUREEN JOAN
LINGWOOD has filed a petition for divorce
No. 2224 of 1962 on the grounds of desertion
and separation. If you wish to defend this
petition you must file an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before 19th October, 1962,
and obtain a copy of the petition and notice
of petition without charge from T. G. D.
Marshall, Landers & Co., Solicitors, of 251-
253 George Street, Sydney, or H. V. Harris,
Wheele & Williams, Solicitors, of 43 Bolton
Street, Newcastle. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
TO: REGINALD RICHARD FREDERICK
WOOD, formerly of 15 Frederick Street, Cobar.
TAKE NOTICE that SYLVIA WOOD has filed
a petition for Divorce No. 906 of 1962 on the
grounds of desertion and cruelty, and a claim
for ancillary relief will be made. If you wish
to defend you may file an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before 26th October, 1962
and obtain a copy of the Petition and Notice
of Petition without charge from LEONARD
WILLIAM WILLIAMS, Solicitor, 79-81 Campsie
Street, Campsie, or from his City Agents.
JONES JONES & JONES, Solicitors, 76-78
Clarence Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar,
Missing Person
WOULD anyone knowing the whereabouts of
FANNY MAN ANDERSON (formerly Rodgers)
of 69 Withers Street West Wallsend please
ask her to contact Messrs. H. V. Harris
Wheeler & Williams, Solicitors, of 105 Tudor
Street, Hamilton, or 43 Bolton Street, New-
castle.
People are talking
about the new
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
Please arrange for my BULLETIN to
be delivered to me each week by
MY NEWSAGENT
BY DIRECT SUBSCRIPTION
Please tick ( y) whichever method of
delivery you prefer.
For those desiring direct sub-
scription:
Please find enclosed my cheque/money
order for months subscription to
THE BULLETIN.
RATES (Australia and New Guinea) 1 year
£2 125.; \ r 2 year £1 6s. Post free British
Dominions £3 6s. Other countries
£3 16s.
N.Z. SUBSCRIPTIONS Remit to Box 965
Wellington, N.Z. 1 year £2 12s. N.Z.
currency, y 2 year—£l 6s. (N.Z. currency).
Please add exchange to cheques.
Perhaps this is the first issue of THE BULLETIN you
have read. But whether you are a new reader or an
old one why don't you make sure of YOUR copy of
THE BULLETIN by ordering it each week? There are
two ways of doing it either through your newsagent
or by direct subscription. The form at left offers you
your choice of method of delivery. You may send us
your name and address and we will arrange for the
newsagent nearest you to deliver your copy of
THE BULLETIN each week and charge it to your account.
Or, if you prefer it, we will mail each week's copy
to your address by direct subscription.
The
Bulletin
Incorporating The Australian Financial Times
EXPORT OPENING FOR
AUST. PASTURE SEEDS
Production of Dutch certified white
clover seed near Cowra, NSW, for
re-shipment to Holland opens up a new
export field for Australia. About 700
lb. of a new Dutch strain of white clover
was sent to a commercial seed merchant
by The Netherlands and certifying
authority for sowing here under the super-
vision of the NSW Department of Agri-
culture.
It is the first time seed has been
grown in Australia for re-shipment to
th : country of origin.
The reason why the seed is being sown
here for large-scale production is that
too many summers in Holland are wet,
making harvesting difficult and reducing
the seed yield.
Mr C. K. Vears, principal pasture
agronomist, believes there is a big poten-
tial for an industry specialising in seed
increase for specific orders. .
Now that direct shipping is operating
with South American countries, which
already import our subterranean clover
seed, these countries could become large-
scale buyers of other Australian pasture
seeds, Mr Vears says.


Feiffer
- I TUET DONT KWOW,
CM - IT OOESM'T
SUITE EEEM
PRACTICAL. I
MEAJO, SHOULDN'T ./
BOOK" PROMOTION b
BE- WELL'MORE (,
dignified 7 \
whats undignified
ABOUT A 600 P 50M6?
" \ THEM E» IT WITH
'7} Movies ALL
THE TIME I
BUT WRTW6 S£P6E
TO 00 WITH THE TITLE
OF DEW BOOIfi-
LETB FACE (c
IT- IT lE> A>
A UT-TLF (
FAR our- ] '
FOR6ET FAR CUT-
TH/OK OF MASE
v APPEAL/ THIIO^OF
>1 MUiIWW
V\ TRM A F£LO OfJ
\V\l W FOR SIZE'
\) "/ wi/Ewy
\ o' chuvreo
> 1 UE SAtOCHEZ '!
well dew.
I POD'T
THWkr mtiy
me - fr
'/ LOST MO
HEART AT
THE TRONIC
CF CAREER '
(JOU) MOD CAN'T
BEUEI/E PEOPLE
UUOOIQ ACTUALLY
ACCEPT-
"FOAOOO fifjp
zoo try loere
owewAzrs"
m - MOU KNOW
IT JUST MIGHT,
WORK - 4'Tf,
AWE WITH 50 MARM
BOOK STORES
A) ALREADY
MOSTLM RECORD
\ sHops think
J OF THE TIE
IN SALES I
IVE EOTOOE'
"CALORIEO POO'r
COUOT BUT
m 00" ( Q <g
BEINGS TEARS
TO MU EUES,
6U5 OABM,
ORIO6S
>S A TEAR 5.
“The Bulletin" Crossword No. 709
ACROSS
I—Rent1 —Rent paid for a rodeo-style pig address in Eng-
land? (15)
7—Love to scold and speak rhetorically. (5)
9—Leo’s will is amended, some gushing being expected
of such. (3-5)
11—Bats, in orthodox and unorthodox style, in produc-
ing two outcomes. (4, 4,4)
13— Hurons organised a forceful advance. (6)
14— Use scissors and haberdashery the wrong way. (4)
16—A sort of label club is backward. (3)
18— Bill associated with such love
after business. (3)
19— Montand in the country
vestry. (4)
20— Abundantly healthy nonsense
about some conveyance run
out and bankrupt. (6)
22—Who reduces the top psychia-
trist? (4-8)
25 Who’s sorry the writer and I
are seen beside the camper’s
shelter. (8)
26 Stand a round outcry? (5)
27 Love’s passing and passing
Cook’s reason for coming to
the Pacific. (8, 2,5)
DOWN
1— The study of the breathing of
a colt just like his rodeo sire?
(12)
2 See some milliner fight a
loquacious character. (10)
3 He who extends hospitality in
Gilbert and Sullivan suggests
spirits. (6)
4 Nothing settled when giving
permission. (8)
5 A bit off-color and taken from
the dandy spot at first. (5)
6 You can’t walk out of this
part of Toscanini’s lecture.
(4)
B—lt represents some of
Lakemba’s system. (7)
10—A place for a spot got a nip
before you get taxation seda-
tives. (12)
12—Found a reason for not
working feathers victimised
by some feller. (6, 4)
15—Flora East among equines. (7)
17—Down-and-out direction to be
expected of the late con-
ductor? (8)
21—Talk to a London publisher.
(6)
23 Lets out because times change.
(5)
24 Star gave in. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 708


mi
\6B
Rv
o
1 4 SEP 1962
o
■H
/V
"A
NJ\
*
■■«
m
3
/ir%\
EXTRAS
1 ■ 1
20
sU”
ANP
.
A r
L
R I G
,
- .
.
r :;t ■
Carlyle EXTRAS
the distinctive American
blend cigarette with so many extras
EXTRA FLAVOR: Carlyle Extras give you that extra mellow
flavor of fine costly tobaccos blended to taste so good.
EXTRA FRESHNESS: Carlyle Extras are the genuine American
blend made right here in Australia for unimpaired full freshness.
EXTRA SIZE: Carlyle Extras are 18% bigger make regular
American size look small. Enjoy extra smoking pleasure in G;, ’ 1 Extras size.
Only Carlyle could . . .
taste so good it’s blended
QQMteFT? JjJpPSvLth just
a touch
of Turkish
World Copyright
MANUFACTURED FOR THE AMERICAN CIGARETTE COMPANY (OVERSEAS) PTY. LTD.
CE.113.8.62
