

The Bulletin
APRIL 14
ONE SHILLING
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
20-PAGE FINANCE SECTION
PACKAGE BUILDING—A NEW DEVELOPMENT
MALCOLM MUGGERiDGE
HOW NOT TO WIN FRIENDS
GEORGE McGANN
NEW YORK NEWSLETTER
THAT CERTAIN BOOK
MAX HARRIS DISCOVERS THE BOY WHO SMOKED
SCIENCE AT WORK
WANTED: A SMOKERS' SURVEY
UVESTMENT IN ART
sound new business


WORKING FOR AUSTRALIA
Thousands of well-known
Australian goods are
packed, wrapped and pro-
tected in cartons and
packages made from
A.P.M. all-Australian papers and paperboards.
Owned by 30,000 Australian investors, and employ-
ing 5,000 Australians, A.P.M. is Australia’s largest
supplier of quality materials to the packaging trade.
A.P.M. is the leading paper manufacturer
in the Southern Hemisphere operating
seven mills conveniently located near
Australia’s largest cities and ports. With
its continually growing supplies of raw
materials, and over 90 years experience of
our local market and conditions, A.P.M.
can supply the present and future needs of
Australia’s vital packaging industry.
school projects: For material on A.P.M.
activities, write to ‘Projects’, A.P.M.,
G.P.0., Box 1643, Melbourne.
u
m*
SK
mito
mm
m
mm.
mm
m
&WM x
m
m
vrs-'
P»
-• (won
AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LTD.
SOUTH GATE, SOUTH MELBOURNE. SALES OFFICES IN ALL STATE CAPITALS.


The New Art Boom
RUDY KOMON page 13
Investment in Art .. . . .. 13
The Exclusive Mr Taylor .. 17
Zoe Caldwell: Export Quality .. 18
New York Newsletter .. .. 20
Mr McEwen Pushes In .. .. 22
The Reign in Spain .. .. 23
How Wrong is Xavier Herbert? 26
How Not to Win Friends .. 31
Manhunt for Executives .. .. 40
Speculator’s Diary .. .. 52
A Word for the Goat .. .. 53
The World of Apu .. .. 55
Apprentices to the West .. .. 58
That Certain Book (Max Harris) 59
©
NATIONAL NOTEBOOK 4
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
AROUND MELBOURNE 12
OVERSEAS 22
FORUM 26
LETTERS 29
SCIENCE AT WORK •• 34
WILDCAT •• •• •• 36
REVIEWS 55
RED PAGE •• • 58
- Hh riULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO Pi'i LID
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney;
Box 2521; Phone: 27 5771.
Vol. 83
No. 4287
THE R.S.L. AND THE FACTS OF LIFE
POTENTIALLY the RSL’s decision to launch an anti-communist cam-
paign is one of the most important developments in Australian
politics for many years. Backed by important trade unions such as the
Australian Workers’ Union and the Federated Ironworkers’ Association,
the RSL’s campaign hopes to do something more solid than the distribution
of conventional propaganda and may include the publishing of the names
of known communists. They plan to document communist infiltration
of Government departments, trade unions, universities, schools, newspapers
and various community organisations such as, for example, the Parents’
and Citizens’ Association.
If done well, this could be of tremendous value. It is fantastic that, in
1962, apart from a few occasional propagandist asides, no one has bothered
to collect and make public the details of communist conspiracy in all walks
of Australian life from businessmen and farmers to academics and
journalists. And it is the details that count as far as public education is
concerned, since although everyone agrees in principle that communists
are enemy agents, many people still express incredulous astonishment
when offered evidence that communists mean' what they say.
One word of warning, however, is necessary. It is absolutely essential
that the RSL does not goof this campaign. It must collect plenty of hard
facts including names, and make sure they are all correct. There must be
no hysteria. There is a whole intellectual apparatus committed to the view
that to call a known communist a communist is to be guilty of a libellous
smear. It would be a sorry spectacle if the RSL’s campaign were easily
discredited and the ostrich-heads of both the Left and the Right able to
continue ignoring the facts of life. (When, for example, the Vice-Chan-
cellor of Melbourne University last year saw fit to describe a known
communist as a man “somewhat to the Left” —Hitler was presumably
“somewhat to the Right”—one realises what a long haul the RSL will have.)
It is not surprising that the main public support for this campaign to
date has come from trade unionists. They certainly do not need to be told
how absurd is the theory that because communists are numerically small
in Australia, they must be unimportant. Recently four men were sacked
from the executive of the British Electrical Trade Union—and these four
communists controlled 250,000 men. When Thornton used the 50,000 Iron-
workers to assist Soviet imperialism after the war, there were only 200
members of the communist party in his union. Nor do unionists suffer
from the illusion that compromise with communists is possible.
But it is the popularity of these illusions that underlines the need for
the RSL’s campaign. All kinds of people who think of themselves as anti-
communist are only helping the communist cause by ignoring both the con-
spiratorial character of the communist party and the fact that its driving
force is the will to destroy us and our way of life. No doubt the RSL is
prepared for the smears it is bound to collect in this operation, but provided
it gets its facts right and avoids using the smear technique itself, it has no
cause to worry. Those organisations which resent RSL intrusion into this
field have only themselves to blame for not having made such intrusion
unnecessary.


National
Notebook
Portrait of Dr Power
\)I/hen our man in London, Larry
* Boys, began to try to fill out the
portrait of Dr John Wardell Power he
knew only Power’s name, the date of his
death and the telephone number of the
“Jersey Evening Post” (circulation 16,000)
at St Helier. the capital of the island. This
was, perhaps, a bit more than Sydney Uni-
versity knew when it received the
astounding bequest of £1,000,000 from
Dr Power to be devoted to the study
of contemporary art.
A reporter on the “Jersey Evening
Post” told Boys that he remembered Mrs
Power, but not Dr Power. The reporter
knew that Mrs Power had left some
thousands to a nephew and a niece and
a £lOOO tip to her chambermaid at the
Grand Hotel, St Helier.
No one Boys spoke to in London art
circles had heard of Power, and every-
one seemed vaguely nettled that they
knew nothing of a man w'ho had a
million to spend on art and who had
lived on their doorstep for half a
century.
How'ever, Australian Harry Tatlock
Miller, who runs the Redfern Gallery,
discovered a French art directory of the
thirties. From this it seemed that Power
was not entirely without honor, save in
his own country. The French directory
had a full biography of him, comparable
with the biographies of people such as
Picasso, and Braque.
It began : Power, John Joseph Wardell,
born October 18, 1881, began drawing
age seven, encouraged by mother, but
architect father insisted he become a
doctor . . .
The biography said Power had be-
longed to the committee of the Abstrac-
tion-Creation of Paris. He had exhibited
in London in 1924, 1926, and 1931, in
Paris in 1930, and at the Rosenberg
gallery, Paris, in 1931 and 1933. He had
also exhibited in Amsterdam.
Buyers of his canvases included the
Contemporary Art Society of Great
Britain, the Nottingham Municipal
Gallery, Sir Michael Sadler, Samuel
Courtauld and Lord Churchill.
Then the reporter from the “Jersey
Evening Post” phoned Boys again. Out
of the island’s population of 57,000
the reporter had found only one man
who remembered Dr Power. That was
Dr Philip Bentlif who had attended Dr
Power until his death from lung cancer
in 1943. Bentlif remembered Power as
a man of mystery and imagination, a
brilliant conversationalist who preferred
solitude, a devout Catholic who dabbled
in spiritualism.
Power went to Jersey in 1939 during
the phoney war. He took a large, solid
old house on Mont a I’Abbe, two miles
out of St Helier. He built a large studio
in the grounds and prepared to paint,
the war out of sight and mind.
Then came the German occupation.
Powers was afraid that the Germans
would send him to do medical work
in prisoner-of-war camps and that they
might confiscate his paintings. He gave
the paintings, including Picassos, to
Bentlif to hide aw’ay.
In London Harry Tatlock Miller’s
sister, Kathleen, phoned Boys to tell
him she had discovered a Melbourne
cousin of Power, Mrs Tarlton Rayment,
who is now living in England. Mrs Ray-
ment recalled that Power used to send
photographs of his paintings to her
father in Melbourne. “They were very,
very new in those days,” she said
“Father thought they were dreadful and
was not in the least interested in having
any of the originals.”
Mrs Rayment said that a nephew of
Power was working at Buckingham
Palace. He is James Bernard Orr, Harrow
and Gordonstoun, private secretary to
the Duke of Edinburgh for the past five
years.
In Sydney, the ironies of the Power
bequest are only now becoming apparent.
The University of Sydney has not yet
recovered from the shock of getting
£1,000,000 from someone who never
wanted to study medicine there anyhow.
The Vice-Chancellor, Professor S. H.
Roberts, has made no detailed statement
on what will be done with the money.
Professor Roberts said that the Senate
would appoint a committee to investigate
the establishment of a faculty or institute
of fine arts.
The bequest struck a powerful blow
for the older of the two cultures, but
Professor Harry Messel, of the School
of Nuclear Physics, and the university's
best fund-raiser, remembered his frequent
dictum that the humanities are just as
important as science and said “every-
body was very pleased about the be-
quest.”
The secretary of the Contemporary
Art Society. Elwyn Lynn, said the bequest
was “wonderful news,” but whether
members of the society will benefit much
is doubtful. Contemporary art these days
has a rather old-fashioned ring, and
modern Australia!! painters may find
themselves excluded from "contem-
porary” as Dr Power understood it.
(Investment in Art see page 13 in this
issue.)
Question Without Answer
VX/’niCH was the last Australian State to
gain self-government? The question
was throw'n up at a quiz contestant in
a live Adelaide television show. The
prize was a car worth about £lOOO.
The contestant, an Adelaide typo-
grapher, said: “Western Australia.”
However, he was declared wrong by the
compere who said the State was
Queensland.
Next day, in the light of expert opinion,
it was decided that the question is one
that really could not be answered. Does
a State become self-governing when it is
given its first Constitution to control
Government or when the Parliament first
meet? Or can it be self-governing before
a Parliamentary meeting?
The first Queensland Parliament was
assembled more than 20 years before the
first WA Parliament in 1890. Constitu-
tions of the States follow the same
pattern, with WA being the last to have a
Constitution.
The television station, for goodwill,
has now forked up with the car even
though station executives are still not
sure what is the correct answer.
Everything but the
Kitchen-Sink
Englishman Norman Marshall, brought
- L ' to Australia by the British Council
mainly to lecture on theatre, told us that
the day of the kitchen-sink drama is end-
ing in London. “The most popular play
on in London at the moment is C. P.
Snow's ‘The Affair’ and 1 think that may
be a pointer to the way things are going.”
Mr Marshall said. He can even see a
revival of that gallant veteran, the
drawing-room comedy.
Mr Marshall is chairman of the drama
panel of the British Council, but in recent
years he has been busy with commercial
television (“We call it independent tele-
vision in England,” he pointed out)
rather than the stage. For some years
he was head of drama for Associated-
Rediffusion and is now employed by them
in an advisory capacity.


Mr Marshall said that the experience
of TV drama producers in England had
been that people would accept grimmer
—“or what they themselves call ‘mor-
bid’ ” —fare in their own living-rooms
than they would in the theatre.
Mr Marshall does not believe that TV
has robbed the English theatre of
audiences. “TV hasn’t got much of a
grip on people beyond the age of 14 in
England now,” he admitted.
“Television might make it harder for
some people to decide to go out at night,
but the presentation by the 8.8. C. of
an excerpt from a current play has an
enormous effect on the box-office. It is
said to be able to add as much as two
years to the run. Just before I left an
excerpt from a play, which took only
£6OO in its first week, was presented by
the 8.8. C. Takings were £3600 the fol-
lowing week.”
Mr Marshall has been seeing every-
thing he possibly can in Australia. He
saw all the plays presented at the Ade-
laide Festival and found Melbourne
“alive with theatre.”
If he were an Australian and a play-
wright and writing in this country, what
sort of plays would he write?
“Plays with an urban setting and with
articulate characters,” Mr Marshall told
us firmly.
The Breath of Scandal
TTictoria’s breathalyser came back into
* the news when a policeman resigned
from the force after it had been alleged
he had exceeded his duty, when off-duty,
outside a dance-hall. He was given a
breathalyser test which showed he had
drunk 14 beers and was demoted.
This case was prominently reported but
another case, at Preston Court, which
illustrated the fatuity of the breathalyser,
was not reported at all.
A naval officer, charged with driving
while drunk, was given a breathalyser
test which showed he had drunk the
equivalent of 18 beers. The officer’s
essential defence was: Suppose I did?
I often drink the equivalent of 18 beers.
It would take more than that to make a
Navy type like me tight. The case was
dismissed.
Quick and Dead
out of 100 Hobart pedestrians
put on Brisbane streets at noon
would be dead by 5 p.m., Mr A. J. de
Salis believes. He should know ; he is
chief instructor of a Hobart driving
school. Interstate motorists are scarcely
less critical of Tasmanian drivers. “A
typical, hesitant Tasmanian would survive
a day in Sydney traffic only if the police
towed him away first,” a Sydney taxi-
driver, honeymooning in Hobart, said.
The taxi-driver said that it was the
anomalous system of “stop” streets which
made the Tasmanians so menacing to
visitors used to drivers on their left
giving way.
Tasmania has abandoned its right-of-
way streets, which were known intimately
only to those regularly using them, but
stop signs at the intersections still give
priority to traffic in these streets.
"OR THERE'S THE COMPROMISE PLAN —WE GET THE DUTCH TO OFFER
YOUR TERMS TO YOU"


This Australia
POLITICAL POINTS
COMMUNISTS IN THE
PUBLIC SERVICE
W. C. WENTWORTH
Infiltration
From MUGGA
TX7- C. Wentworth dropped one of his
** periodical bombshells in Parlia-
ment last week when he alleged there was
“an attempt by the communist party to
infiltrate into the Public Service Associa-
tion of New South Wales.”
Twelve years ago the association
adopted a rule (Rule 40) which states:
“No communist or member of a sub-
versive organisation shall be admitted to
or permitted to retain membership or
office in the Public Service Association of
New South Wales.” It appears that in
1957 a Mr Steve Cooper joined the
association and was appointed to the
full-time clerical staff of the organisation
sometime late in 1960. His appointment
was in fact supported by Left and Right-
wing factions in the association and as
far as can be judged from his work it
appears he was competent.
Nothing happened until late last year
when the President of the association,
Mr Hook, alleged that Mr Cooper was
a member of the communist party. Apart
from some rather intangible evidence,
Mr Hook discovered that Mr Cooper had
written an article in the Eureka Youth
League paper “Challenge” in November,
.1955, and was described by that journal
as the “Challenge Feature Writer.” Mr
Cooper also wrote an article for the com-
munist “Tribune” in the issue of June
15, 1961, called “Facts on Japan
Re-arming.” The latter article was written
at a time when the communist party was
attempting to paint Japan as a rising
military power and to counter growing
American influence in Japan. In the light
of subsequent events, the campaign at
best was a silly one, at worst a racialist
piece of propaganda. Mr Cooper’s
article fitted into the general pattern.
Rather oddly, after describing the “mili-
tarist” ambitions of the Japanese Mr
Cooper gave a wonderful example of
double-think and wrote: “Backed by a
thousand or more aircraft and a navy of
200,000 tons, Japan will soon have the
most powerful armed forces in Asia—
excluding, of course, China and the
Soviet Union.”
Rightly or wrongly, Mr Hook sus-
pended Cooper under Rule 40. This of
course caused a hell of a commotion and
the governing body of the association
split down the centre on the issue with
the NSW secretary, Mr R. Sutherland,
supporting Cooper. There were many
motions and counter-motions but in the
end Mr Cooper resigned, alleging that he
had been framed and that “he had
nothing to do with communism.’’
On December 11 last year he wrote a
letter to the association enclosing a
statutory declaration stating . I wish
to declare that he was not a member of
the communist party, and that 1 was not
a member of the communist party at or
subsequent to the date on which I joined
the Public Service Association, nor was
I member at or subsequent to the date
on which I became an employee of the
Public Service Association.” Mr
Wentworth alleged “that declaration to be
perjury in substance ”
The council, unsatisfied with this
declaration, pressed the matter further
and asked Mr Cooper among other things
to declare that he was not a member of
any communist front.
The fight continued at this week’s
annual conference and Rule 40 was
rescinded after a three-hour debate by 81
votes to 76. As a result there will probably
be a move to replace the president, Mr
Hook, with Mr Galloway. The line-up on
the Council is normally the same: the
Clerical and Professional officers are
considered Right-wing and the General
and Government agencies sections Left-
wing.
But the point that neither faction has
yet woken up to is that Rule 40 did not
in fact apply to Mr Cooper. If the rule
quoted at the beginning of this article
is re-read it will be seen that it only
covers “membership” of the association
or “office”-holders. Clerical assistants
in fact are neither. The association’s
custom also is that full-time workers
are not members of the association al-
though in point of fact half of the
association employees are at present
members with the female staff being
members of the Clerks' Union.
Whether Mr Cooper is a communist or
not, this fight throws up the perennial
question whether or not communists
should be allowed to become full-time
officials in democratic unions. In Britain,
Lord Ratcliffe’s Committee on
Security recently reported that in the
British Civil Service, there were “too
many communists for comfort” and “a
greater communist penetration than in
any other section of the trade union
movement.” The large-scale infiltration
into the “respectable” unions has shocked
the British Trade Union congress which
is still recovering from the communist
ballot-rigging scandal in the British
Electrical Trades Union.
9 THE MAN FROM THE EAST WA's New Industrial
Invasion.
9 DAVID McNICOIL Rome Report.
9 THE JEWS IN SOUTH AFRICA Evasion and Self-
destruction.
9 THAT CERTAIN BOOK Kylie Tennant on John
Powys.
9 JANE RUSSELL "God is a Living Doll.”
9 WALTER LIFPMANN The Trumpet that Always
Sounds Retreat.
NEXT WEEK'S ISSUE


As far as I was able to discover, the
only union which bans communists from
membership, apart from the NSW
Public Service Association, is the goliath
of unions, the Australian Workers’
Union. The Municipal Employees Union
in NSW only bans them from holding
office.
WA ELECTIONS
POLISHING THE
BRAND IMAGE
D. BRAND
On the DLP’s back
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
T>oth major political parties can take
some comfort from the results of the
Western Australian State election. The
Liberal-Country Party Government was
returned despite the recent Federal swing
and Labor can claim a slight increase in
votes. The Country party was down and
the final gain to the Government looked
to be less than one per cent. This
allowed it to retain its balance of two
seats in the Legislative Assembly, but
did not give it the constitutional majority
necessary to introduce its own Electoral
Act Amendment Bill which lapsed in
the previous Parliament for the same
reason.
The election highlighted the influence
preferential voting has in Australian
politics. particularly those second
preference votes of the DLP. The
Brand Government still has a majority
of only two. It won the vital seat of
Karrinyup on DLP preferences. In
Subiaco, though the Labor candidate
finished behind the Liberal man when the
primary votes had been counted, he would
have won the seat had he gained the DLP
preferences. But they went heavily to the
Liberal member giving him the seat and
Mr Brand the Premiership.
While most commentators came to
their traditional conclusion that the DLP
percentage vote was down on the
previous elections, a little homework
tells another story. In the current elec-
tions the DLP stood ten candidates
whereas in 1959 they had 17 candidates.
In two of these 17 electorates in 1959
there was no Liberal candidate standing
and the DLP polled 27 per cent, and
25 per cent, of the vote in those two
seats. These factors contributed heavily
to its 10 per cent, share of the vote. It
seems in these elections that its per-
centage share is about the same.
Labor has the biggest lesson to learn
from this campaign. The tendency to
swing was there, but poor candidates in
Subiaco and Murchison (where sitting
Liberal Dick Burt galloped home) lost
it the advantage. In Canning, vigorous
ex-commando Don May took a seat
which was an amalgam of two Govern-
ment seats after the distribution of
preferences was stacked against him.
Labor leader Bert Hawke will have to
get tough with the district committees
which select time-serving union secre-
taries and party stalwarts instead of the
younger men who could possibly win a
seat on personality and leadership.
For the Government, the vote was both
a justification and a warning. Premier
David Brand stood on a ticket of in-
dustrialisation which halted for the first
time the swing to Labor, but the result
did not bring him an overwhelming vote
of confidence. He will need to remember
that his industrialisation programme is
a long-term one, and that there will not
be many more industries established by
the time the' next elections are due than
there are now, unless the industrialists
speed up their schedules. By 1965, the
electorate will probably be looking for
the reality of the smoke-stacks and the
overtime if it has not been pushed into
another recession by see-sawing economic
policies emanating from Canberra.
Mr Menzies can take little consolation
from the Western Australian victory. It
was so plainly a triumph of local policy
that he has wisely refrained from making
any statement. If it had not been for its
own record, Mr Brand’s Government
would have been bundled out of office.
On the other hand, Mr Calwell must
also be sobered by the result. He
campaigned strongly on Federal issues,
but that didn’t work.
But the oddest fact of the election is
that despite their decisive influence on
election results through second preferen-
ces all ten DLP candidates lost their
deposits. One wonders how long the
DLP officials can persuade its members
to lose money and effort with the sole
reward of keeping Labor out of office.
ZIONISTS
THE
CLAREY LECTURE
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
An unusual tribute is being paid to the
memory of the late Mr P. J. Clarey.
It will take the form of an annual
memorial lecture, along the line of the
Chifley Memorial Lecture organised each
year by the Melbourne University ALP
Club.
What is unusual, however, about the
Clarey Memorial Lecture is that the
initiative for it came from the Zionist
Labor Federation in Melbourne.
Partially crippled from childhood the
late Mr Clarey was known as one of the
big men of the Australian Labor move-
ment, but his deep interest in Israeli
affairs will come as a surprise even to
many who knew him well.
Clarey’s union career started in 1912
when he helped to organise the Storemen
and Packers’ Union in the days when
members worked a 60-hour week for a
wage of 365. By 1914 he was president
of the Victorian Clerks’ Union at the
age of 24 and during a lifetime of service
to the Labor movement occupied many
of the key positions in it—president of
the Victorian branch of the party and
of its Federal body, entering the Victorian
Legislative Council in 1937 before going
into Federal politics in 1949.
Clarey seemingly has few counterparts
today in Victoria, and it has taken a sec-
tion of the Melbourne Jewish community
to remind Australians of his solid, sane
virtues. He travelled abroad several
times, visiting Israel twice. At the meet-
ing to set up the Memorial Lecture,
Rabbi Dr Sanger and other speakers
testified to his understanding of Israel and
Calwell paid tribute to his role in creating
Australian goodwill towards Israel.
But for Clarey’s ill-health Aus-
tralian Labor affairs might be in better
shape today than they are. When the split
developed over the Industrial Groups in
1955 there were many who looked to
Clarey to succeed Evatt and calm down
the passions which were destroying the
party. Briefly, the plan was for Clarey
to become President of the re-formed
Victorian ALP Executive after the ex-
pulsion of the die-hard “movement” men.
From there it was proposed that Clarey
should succeed to leadership of the
Parliamentary party and set about recon-
struction.
The rest is history. The sectarian Left-
wing unions got control of the Victorian
Executive and there was little if any room
for Clarey and his kind. The first lecture
in his memory will be held later this
year, probably in July or August.


RAGS TO RICHES
THE GEIGER MYSTERY
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
KURT GEIGER
"i have plans”
'T'he Kurt Geiger story, one of Mel-
A bourne’s greatest rags -to - riches
classics, reached a dramatic climax last
week when the hero announced his
resignation from all the directorships he
held with the Reid Murray organisation
which the same day had announced de-
ferment of its interim dividend.
Viennese-born, Kurt Geiger and his
wife, Olga, reached Melbourne in 1938
when he was aged 24. The couple were
victims of Hitler’s anti-Semitism and
young Kurt Geiger was within months of
being admitted to medical practice in
Vienna when he sailed for Australia. His
parents and a sister who remained were
murdered by the Nazis during the war.
To qualify for medical practice in
Victoria, Geiger would have had to have
repeated five years of his medical studies
here. Near penniless, he was in no
position to become a medical student
again. Instead, he and Olga looked
around for some other living.
They remembered the chic Viennese
boutiques they had left behind, and in
particular noted the poor quality of
Melbourne’s shoes, handbags and
leathergoods measured against Continen-
tal standards. With their few remaining
pounds they rented a tiny shop in Collins
Street in October 1938.
Geiger put the accent on quality and
sophistication and sold at medium range
prices. He was the first to sell shoes and
handbags in matching colors and
materials. Later he was the first to sell
pale blue and pink patent leather shoes
for women.
Within 12 years of his arrival, Kurt
Geiger commanded an enterprise worth
about £500,000. He branched into manu-
facturing with a shoe factory employing
130 and expanded these activities when
import restrictions curtailed his buying
from America and Europe after 1952. His
biggest move came in 1955 when his
firm amalgamated with Melbourne’s
oldest department store, Hicks Atkinson
Ltd, of Collins Street. Geiger became
Managing Director of Hicks.
In 1958, the Reid Murray group took
over Hicks with an issue of £1,750,000
in shares and £17,500 in cash. Geiger
joined the Reid Murray board and
remained a Managing Director of Hicks.
His resignation from both positions last
week was both a shock and a mystery.
Coming on a day when Reid Murray
issued an unfavorable report added to the
speculation.
Was it planned in advance? The 1958
takeover had left Geiger with 11,760 ss.
Reid Murray shares and soon afterwards
he built the total to 16,460. A one-for-
four cash issue in mid-1960 took his
tally to 22,364, yet last week the register
showed him as holding only 1404 shares.
Geiger had sold his shares between Dec-
ember 1960 and February 1961 when
prices ranged between 9s. 2d. and 7s. lOd.
after a 1960 peak of 17s. lOd. The day
he announced his resignation the shares
fell from 4s. Bd. down to 3s. 1 Id. on
news of the deferment of the interim.
Mrs Geiger, who had 340,000 shares
after the takeover, was shown last week
as only having 200, having sold around
the same time as her husband.
Some have thought they sensed an air
of frustration about Kurt Geiger in
recent years. In 1958, he stood on a
pinnacle in Melbourne business, but after
the merger he was more akin to a cog
in the mighty £lO million Reid Murray
empire of TV sets, electrical goods, hire-
purchase, drapery and other diverse
activities. Perhaps there are pointers in
the fact that after 1958 he seemed to be
searching for wider spheres of activity
than business. In 1959, he became chair-
man of Melbourne's “Museum of
Modern Art” (actually it is a gallery, not
a museum) in Tavistock Place, where
veteran art connoisseur John Reed is
director. Geiger announced big plans
for the gallery, but faded out —apparently
after disagreements with its committee.
Last year he appeared as the hard-working
chairman of the £300,000 appeal for the
Royal Australasian College of Surseons.
He has always been one of the most
civic-minded of Melbourne retailers. He
backed the “Herald” campaign for a
city square on the old western market
site and once urged the City Council to
set up a “beauty” committee to control
unsightliness produced by garish neons
and unsuitable architecture in city
buildings. His quiet precise voice matches
his immaculate grooming and his quiet
English-cut suits. His office in Hicks,
simple and uncluttered, equally bears the
stamp of his refinement. With the merest
trace of Viennese lilt he told the
Bulletin : “I have definite plans for the
future and my business activities will
still be in Melbourne.”
PURITANISM
APRIL 15, 1882
TVTew South Wales is becoming
Puritanical. Ladies who raffle at
bazaars are fined ; a publican’s
daughter may not play the piano in
her father’s house ; it is a penal offence
to sell lemonade on Sunday ; and
those uncleanly people who persist in
shaving on the Sabbath may be put
into the stocks. Government will
shortly call tenders for a full supply
of Curfew bells.
A Melbourne paper says that an
ex-employee of the NSW Govern-
ment, on asking for re-appointment,
was informed that though he was
zealous and efficient, his request could
not be complied with, because he
“was a spiritualist and freethinker,
and had recently been lecturing on
these subjects.”
"VTepotism grows apace, and corrodes
the heart of the Civil Service.
The attention of independent mem-
bers of Parliament is directed to
numerous cases of recent occurrence in
which junior officers, or absolute out-
siders, have been promoted over the
heads of well-tried servants of the
State, merely because they, the juniors
or outsiders aforesaid, happen to be
sons-in-law, actual or prospective, of
people in high places. A certain
Macquarie-street department here
we stop.
'Oible-reading in State schools is a
vexed question in SA as well as
in NSW, but agitators don’t know
how to organise. In SA there are
102,570 persons between the ages of
5 and 21 years ; of these only 46,746
attend Sunday schools, which num-
ber 593.


AS I SEE IT
BARWICK AND THE BOMB
FROM ALAN REID IN CANBERRA
■COR moral reasons, Australia does
A not propose to be the first to intro-
duce the atomic bomb into this part
of the world. But if others Red
China is the most likely—do introduce
it into this part of the world then
Australia will either: (1) acquire
access to supplies of the bomb ; or
(2) if not satisfied that access is un-
qualified as far as defence of its main-
land is concerned it will reconsider
the position and possibly produce its
own bombs.
That is the Cabinet thinking behind
the key 18-word statement in the long,
startlingly frank letter sent to the Act-
ing Secretary-general of the United
Nations, U Thant, by the Minister for
External Affairs, Sir Garfield Barwick,
and tabled last week in the House of
Representatives: “Australia cannot
undertake that under no circumstances
will Australian forces in the future be
armed with nuclear weapons.”
That thinking was not produced
overnight. The Australian Govern-
ment has had some long and agonising
appraisals to make before reaching
its decision. They started about 1952
when it became obvious that Australia
was acquiring the potential in “know-
how” and resources for atom bomb
making.
Though Sir Mark Oliphant, a
director of the Australian National
University’s Research School of
Physical Sciences, has now stated that
the development of nuclear armaments
in sufficient volume for war is “quite
beyond” Australia’s resources, this
view seems at variance with the advice
that the Federal Government has re-
ceived from other experts. This vari-
ance may arise from Sir Mark having
in mind: (a) the completion of the
chain of processes needed to produce
an atomic bomb from existing facili-
ties —which include the small reactor
at Lucas Heights rather than the
provision of extensive new facilities ;
and (b) that Australia’s purpose is to
have “deterrent” weapons—which by
their very nature would require an
immense supplementary backing in the
shape of “delivery” methods —rather
than a means of local defence.
My strong impression is that the
Australian Government is not con-
cerned with the “deterrent” side of
any future Australian nuclear weapon.
Cabinet is prepared to leave the
physical side of that —the providing of
“deterrent” weapons and the problem
of their delivery—wholly to the United
States and to the United Kingdom. It
wants Australia to have a say about
how and under what circumstances
the use of “deterrents” might be con-
sidered. But it prefers the manufacture
and custody of “deterrents” to be in
as few hands as possible, and for those
hands to be responsible hands, aware
of the deadly character of the weapons
they are fingering. But as well as the
global problem of war and peace,
there is the local defence problem.
It is within this area of local defence
that the Menzies Government’s think-
ing has taken shape. While it has
firmly decided that it will not be the
first to introduce the atomic weapon
age into this part of the world for
moral reasons, it accepts that com-
munist China experiences no such
moral inhibition and has indicated
that the production of nuclear weap-
ons is its aim. Once communist China
achieves this aim, the position in this
part of the world changes immediately.
nPHE proposition that Australia may
A have to contemplate the production
of its own atomic weapons for defence
purposes appears to have its origin
in a very real fear. Because of
Australia’s geographical remoteness
from the centres of world politics,
there could be a duplication of events
in World War II when Britain was
forced into a position where, from its
viewpoint, Australia had to be re-
garded as “expendable” and left to its
own defence resources as far as
Britain was concerned. To avoid a
world war and under the compulsion
of necessity rather than choice, the
United States and the United King-
dom might have to decide that Aus-
tralia is “expendable” and must be left
to its own defence resources. Such a
decision, it is hoped, is unlikely. But
it is not impossible.
Consider the Australian situation
if that ever happens. Barwick’s letter
to U Thant refers to “the emergence
in the area of East Asia and the
Western Pacific of a military power
of great dimension and some ambi-ion
. . . consciously working for the elim-
ination of the type of society of which
Australia is part.” This is obvio :sly
communist China. Without atomic
weapons, China’s conventional forces
are immense. With atomic weapons
they are overwhelming. The 2COO-mile
sea barrier between China and Aus-
tralia, still valuable while China’s
forces are conventional, become mean-
ingless. Only powerful friends or
atomic weapons could protect a small
nation, such as Australia, selected as a
target for Chinese aggression. If the
powerful friends are missing, that
leaves only atomic weapons.
nPHAT is why in the Barwick letter
Australia declined to enter into a
commitment that “under no circum-
stances” would its forces be armed
with atomic weapons. The Menzies
Government hopes that Australian
forces will never have to be armed
with them: it can foresee circum-
stances in which it would be hopeless
not to be armed with them. That is
also why the facilities at Maralinga
(an aboriginal word meaning “Field of
Thunder”) where three atomic bombs
were tested in 1957 have never been
dismantled.
Despite Sir Mark Oliphant, other
experts advise that for an expenditure
of under £50,000,000 a compara-
tively small sum compared with
Australia’s defence spending of
some £1,000,000,000 over the
past five years Australia could
have become a producer of atomic
weapons at any time in the past six
or seven years. It has the “know-how”
and the resources. It has the personnel
—scientists who have worked on the
production of atomic weapons in both
US and UK. The £50,000,000 ex-
penditure and five years’ effort would
fill the existing gaps in the chain of
processes already available in Aus-
tralia to produce atomic weapons.
But the difference in the advice
given by Sir Mark Oliphant and the
Government’s other advisers may not
be as great as it seems to be on the
surface. If —as seems to be the case —
the Government’s experts are thinking
not in terms of an overall “deterrent”
but of instruments of local defence,
Australia’s ability to produce only a
limited number of atomic weapons
(conceded by Sir Mark) is probably
viewed as sufficient. It is with the
capacity to repel an aggressor and not
with the total destruction of an
aggressor that Australian thinking
appears to be concerned in the present
context.


STRIKES
THE POSTMAN SOMETIMES
KNOCKS TWICE
F. O’GRADY
A new survey
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
CUnce 1949 city postmen have been
working a shift which officially went
from 6 a.m. to 2.48 p.m. This usual
shift however was extended to 3.30 p.m.,
giving them 42 minutes overtime a day.
On Saturdays they worked from 6 a.m.
and finished at 10 a.m. All this gave the
posties an extra £5 per fortnight in their
take-home pay. At a minimum of £l6,
and a maximum of £l7 10s., they are one
of the lowest-paid employees in the Post
Office. This 42 minutes overtime a day
enables the city posties to make a third
delivery daily to business houses whereas
in the suburbs only two deliveries are
made. This overtime, which the men
now consider a right and a necessity, has
operated since 1949.
However, after nearly 13 years, some-
body in the P.M.G.’s department had the
bright idea to alter the shift from 6.15
a.m. to 3 p.m. thus eliminating the 42
minutes of overtime and the £5-odd a
fortnight to the posties. The idea the
P.M.G. apparently had was that the men
could still do the same amount of work
in less time. Hence the regulation strike
which started on April 2 and ended
April 9.
The posties decided to follow strictly
the department’s own regulations regard-
ing the delivery of mail. This meant that
before they left the post office to go on
their round they strapped their bags.
Each time they made a delivery they
unstrapped and re-strapped their bags.
They also untied a bundle of letters,
selected the letter for delivery, delivered
the letter, retied the bundle, replaced the
bundle in the bag and restrapped it.
The men also declined to deliver mail
addressed to “business heads” (unless they
were there personally to receive it, or
authorised someone in writing to accept
delivery for them) ; refused to deliver
incorrectly addressed mail or packages
which did not fit into boxes or to deliver
registered letters except to the addressee.
They also insisted on knocking twice on
business doors.
All this and other laboriously involved
procedure is laid down by the P.M.G.
department to ensure the safe delivery of
mail. If any mail is lost, the first question
asked would be: “Did you have your bag
strapped?” or “Had you retied your
bundle after making the last delivery?”
If a postman has not followed the
P.M.G.’s regulations in such a case he is
disciplined. Luckily for everyone, the
P.M.G., the public and the posties,
common sense normally prevails and the
posties take “risks” to make the deliveries
faster and their own job easier. The
last week’s regulation strike held up
hundreds of thousands of letters and
packages. Instead of being delivered one
day they were quite often delivered the
next.
This form of strike, the regulation
strike, is growing fairly common in Gov-
ernment departments. The first one in the
Australian Railways Union in NSW was
in 1938 at Enfield by shunters. The strike
became State-wide, went for two weeks,
and was won by the railwaymen.
Whatever the reasons are. the work-to-
regulations strike is becoming a weapon
used more frequently by unionists. Some-
how or other the work-to-reguiations
which embarrasses those institutions
responsible for their framing seems
somehow ludicrous. It does seem that this
is one certain way of getting around the
penal provisions in the Arbitration Act.
On Monday of this week a group of
half-a-dozen Federal and State representa-
tives journeyed to Canberra to see the
genial Director of Posts and Telegraphs,
Mr F. O’Grady and placed before him
reasons why the posties’ 1949 roster
(guaranteeing them the overtime) should
be re-introduced.
As a result “a new survey” will be
held and it is confidently expected that
the PMG “will see the light.” Perhaps
what was at the back of Mr O’Grady’s
mind was the fact that as there were so
few involved (160) it was better to give
in on this one than to risk a nation-wide
work-to-regulations farce.
RELIGION
ADELAIDE EXCLUSIVES
FROM AN ADELAIDE CORRESPONDENT
HThe car chase through the streets of
J Ankara, in operation Cicero, had
nothing on a recent car chase through
the suburbs of Adelaide. But instead of
Cicero in the passenger’s seat sat Mr
Stanley McCallum, one of the world
leaders of the Exclusive Order of
Plymouth Brethren.
He arrived at Adelaide Airport on a
Wednesday afternoon to find that his
welcoming committee consisted of the
Press and a member of the local sect.
As Mr McCallum and his wife stepped
from the aircraft they refused to answer
their names to the Press. Mr McCallum
ignored the usual terminal-entrance where
passengers check their baggage and strode
to a car. When a photographer tried to
take a picture of the world leader a
man placed his hand in front of the
camera lens. So readers were treated to
the unusual sight of seeing the back of
the head of the world leader between
a giant thumb and forefinger. Television
and radio viewers were nonetheless
disappointed. For the car chase then
began.
A TV camera whirred away as the
car shot out of sight pursued by a bevy
of Pressmen. A woman at the wheel of
the “getaway’’ car led Pressmen through
a maze of streets for several mi.es before
pursuers were lost.
At one stage in the chase she changed
seats with one of two men in the car.
Pressmen then adjourned to the North
Unley Hall of the Brethren where people
were arriving for a meeting. Despite
attempts by Pressmen from several
newspapers to enter the hall they could
not do so. After the meeting was ended
Pressmen were caught napping. A car
shot away from the premises at high
speed, apparently carrying the world
leader. From then on his whereabouts
were unknown.
But in the meantime there were plenty
of other headlines and diversions. SAD
announcer Eldon Crouch was reading
the evening news over the radio when he
informed listeners that he was locked
in his radio studio. Earlier in the day
Crouch had conducted an interview with
a former member of the Exclusive Order.
A man had later called and tried to
see Mr Crouch. Station authorities,
lapping up the publicity, apparently
thought that a crank might be after
Crouch.
Statements from former members of
the sect and relations of members came
thick and fast. An ex-serviceman claimed


that his wife had left home, taking the
children with her. The husband had been
told that he could not sit with his wife
and children because he did not “break
bread” with the sect. “Now, even if I
could get my wife and children to join
me life would be unbearable as they
would not eat with me nor would my
wife accept me as her husband,” the
man complained.
A 15-year-old schoolboy told how he
ate meals apart from his family because
they were members of the Brethren. The
boy said he was not allowed to whistle
tunes of popular music at home, had to
eat in his own bedroom, and was not
allowed to have meals at his school.
Other people revealed that the violin,
piano, sports, dancing, TV, short hair,
radio, novel reading, theatres, and cinema
were strictly taboo.
Only public comment from any mem-
ber of the sect in an answer to Press
questions was this : “We are here to
preach the Gospel, not to defend our-
selves. God will take care of our critics.”
(® Another Exclusive—page 17)
FORTITUDE
WOMEN HISTORIANS BREAK UP
FROM JOHN HIGGINS IN BRISBANE
JgLOSSOMiNG happily in Brisbane at the
moment is a new women’s organi-
sation —The Fortitude Club, possibly the
one happy event of a series of violent
convulsions that have racked the norm-
ally placid Queensland Women’s His-
torical Association over the last three or
four years
Opened only a few months ago, the
Fortitude Club has expanded to a mem-
bership of 150. Its president is socially
prominent Mrs C. B. Peter Bell, wife
of the State’s UGA President. Its mem-
bers include such well-known Brisbane
feminists as former Mayoress Lady
Groom, and former CMO Alderman
Mrs Bettine Warner.
The club is dedicated to the preserva-
tion of the State's historic buildings, and
a study of national history, geography,
and art. At the moment it is campaign-
ing actively in support of the National
Trust, in the hope that it will extend its
activities to Queensland.
Casting an extremely jaundiced eye at
these proceedings is the Queensland
Women’s Historical Association, ruled
by Mrs Martha L. Young, OBE, who has
been president of the Association, with
only odd breaks, since it was formed in
1950 by permission of the Royal His-
torical Society of Queensland —which has
yet, however, to give it branch status.
“QWHAS” was described a couple of
years ago by author-columnist Roy Con-
nolly as an “ordinarily pleasant, genteel,
and harmless body of women devoted to
ancestor worship.” But since then it has
been rent in twain by unseemly faction
fights, with wholesale resignations, threats
of expulsion, scurrilous circulars, talk
of writs, and refusals to hold special
general meetings despite the requests of
as many as 100 members.
Mr. Connolly fled the scene, after
pausing long enough to shout, “Ladies,
I suggest a court-controlled ballot.”
Three years ago, Mrs Bell stood against
the redoubtable Mrs Young for the
presidency, but was defeated after a
virulent campaign. Mrs Young had to
stand down the following year after six
years in the chair, and Mrs Bell went to
the polls once again, to be defeated this
time by Mrs (then Alderman) Warner,
at that time a protege of Mrs Young.
Mrs Warner lasted only six months be-
fore she resigned—and at the next elec-
tions backed Mrs Bell, who once again
fell pluckily to Mrs Young after another
extraordinary campaign. Out of this
third abortive attempt to shake Mrs
Young’s grip on the Association sprang
the Fortitude Club.
“QWHAS” has the advantage at the
moment of access to rooms at historic
Newstead House, by courtesy of the
Royal Historical Society. It seems to
engage mainly in the collection of an in-
finite amount of historic minutiae, apart
from tours and lecturettes which, in the
past at any rate, attracted surprisingly
large audiences, demonstrating an odd
hunger of Queensland women for things
historical and geographical.
The Fortitude Club at the momc t is
without headquarters, but as far as can
be ascertained through the smoke of
female battle, it looks like ultimately re-
placing “QWHAS” as a more compre-
hensive study group—certainly a more
influential one.
Mrs Young’s contribution to the associ-
ation’s early years is remembered and
admitted by the powerful breakaway
group, but intense bitterness has been
created on both sides, and few if any
punches have been pulled since the whole
thing began.
It’s a pity to see the girls bust up like
this, but maybe there’s room for both.
The Fortitude Club will certainly have
struck a powerful blow for the progress
of the arts in Queensland if it can interest
the National Trust into expanding its
interests in this State—and out of its
activities may come a renewed and lcng
overdue interest in the State’s vanishing
historical assets.
From Newstead House, Mrs Young
should be able to continue the activities
which won her an OBE following her
work in Queensland’s Centenary Year
celebrations.
AFTER THE RIOTS
THE PRISONERS OF
BUKA
FROM OUR N.G. CORRESPONDENT
A ll that has been gained by a group
■f*' of Victorian trade unions for their
active stand in the dispute between
natives and the Government on Aus-
tralian-administered Buka Island is a
warm gL of satisfaction and a bill for
£3OO. But at least they asserted a
principle. The story goes back to Febru-
ary this year when an armed police
patrol arrested 400 natives on Buka
Island, which Australia administers under
trust to the United Nations. The natives
were members of a cult which refused to
pay tax. They were arrested after they
had twice attacked the police patrol, and
many received gaol sentences in a court
hearing which took place two days later.
Four trade unions the Plumbers and
Gasfitters, Meat Workers, Builders’
Laborers, and Painters instructed a
solicitor in Melbourne to ta' e up the
matter. Their greatest con-urn, they
said, was that the court hearings appeared
to have taken place with unprecedented
speed. They were also unsure of the
defence available for the natives.
The solicitor who took on the brief
was Mr Cedric Ralph, who was instructed
to make himself available at gaols in
Rabaul and Sohano (near Buka) to any
natives who wished to lodge appeals.
Complete with tourist camera slung
round his neck, Mr Ralph duly arrived
on the scene and spent five days at the
two centres.
He was not perr 'tted to speak with
the prisoners and he agreed himself
that this would be unethical —but the
prisoners were told that he was available
should they wish to speak with him. No
one took up the offer.
The upshot was that after a pleasant
little tropical trip Mr Ralph returned with
a camera full of pictures and a briefcase
empty of appeals. “We provided the
opportunity for a*peal, but the natives
themselves are the only ones who can
make the initial decision” he said.
Meanwhile Papua-New Guinea Public
SolLitor’s Office has also been on the
job. Latest indications are that 50 appeals
will be lodged by the Public Solicitor on
behalf of the native prisoners.


Around Melbourne
FORBIDDEN CITY
COMMISSIONER FORTER
keeping an eye on it
As if this city were not wicked
enough! We suffered the booze
in the Gardens at Moomba time, we
have seen the off-course tote grow to
an immense industry, we even have
illicit baking on Saturdays, but now,
will you believe it? We have followed
the downward path of Sydney and
are putting in our evenings gazing at
strippers.
Your elderly pioneer—purely as a
social study—has had a peep at these
strip-tease shows. One is at the Ritz
Hotel in Fitzroy Street, St Kilda,
where the show rejoices under the
title “Forbidden City.’" Six strippers
are peeling there for the dinner-dance
twice nightly, seven days a week in-
cluding Sunday. (Although you won’t
be able to see them on Good Friday.)
The girls, it has to be admitted, were
quite shapely. They peeled down to
a G-string, plus two gold milk bottle
tops.
The show is put on for the Ritz by
two young entrepreneurs, Ray Bolwell
and John Parkin. Ray Bolwell says
the police don't object as long as they
use a good type of girl and they don't
make it objectionable. He says that
these times the flat rate for strip-tease
artists is £5O a week. For a top-finer
you pay £lOO a week. But it all seems
to be quite popular. In 10 weeks the
show has been seen by 10,000 Mel-
burnians.
Frankly, your bearded pioneer
noticed a vast difference between Mel-
bourne strip audiences and Sydney
strip audiences. In Sydney they show
their undoubted interest by stamping
feet and shouting “take it off.” In
Melbourne they sit in silence with the
same look on their faces that the
buyers have when they are appraising
the quality at the yearling sales.
The other big show is at the Britan-
nia Hotel in Swanston Street —dinner-
dance, two shows nightly, five nights
a week. Here there is a variety show
with Sidney (from Sydney) Heylen of
“Sunnyside Up,” Gaynor Bunning of
GTV-9, plus two strippers, including
Miss Gaye Abandon “direct from
triumphant months in Tokyo” . . .
“Australia’s No. 1 stripper.”
Miss Abandon preferred her milk
bottle tops studded with rhinestones
and she danced quite delightfully in
this costume. Once again, in your
interest, I met Miss Abandon after
the show, although this time she was
tastefully dressed, complete with an
autumn haze mink stole. One simply
had to know why and how strip-tease
had come to Japan, of all places. Miss
Abandon said Tokyo was filled with
large brassy nightclubs and they could
not get enough strip-tease. Why, some-
times a girl had to do nine shows a
day. It all started eight years ago,
when the Government banned mixed
bathing. Until then Japanese men and
women bathed together in the nude.
Now they had to go to their own
establishments.
Japanese men, though, weren't in-
terested in strip-tease. They considered
it a waste of time. They wanted nude
dancers and if a girl came on to the
stage clothed she was expected to lake
it off at once. The men sat in in-
terested silence. And that's the way
it has been in Melbourne. The shows
go on in interested silence and there
have been no breaches of the peace.
Meanwhile Commissioner Porter's men
are keeping an eye on things.
T>ack in 1870, our fine State rejoiced
in 116 breweries. There were 70
towns with one or more breweries.
The process of brewing them all into
one brew began in 1907 when The
Carlton and United Breweries Ltd
was registered to take over The Carl-
ton brewery, McCracken’s city brew-
ery and the Victoria, Castlemaine,
Shamrock and Foster breweries. Alas,
this process has gone on ever since, a
brewery here, and a brewery there.
Mr John Charrington, chairman of
Charrington’s Ltd, London, believes
we are too limited in our range of
beers, mostly we drink the one pale
ale. He was in Melbourne last year
and the hope was that he would build
a £3 million brewery.
Indeed, Mr Charrington himself
hoped to base it on the Richmond
brewery. But he was not quick
enough. Last January, The Carlton
and United Breweries Ltd bought the
brewing assets and hotels of Rich-
mond Brewing Co. Ltd. That was the
finish. Score 1870: 116 breweries.
Score 1962: The Carlton and United
Breweries.
Last week the general manager of
the Richmond brewery, Duncan
Fraser Smith, announced that the
brewery would cease deliveries on
April, Friday the 13th, and hand over
the property on the 16th. No doubt
the Tiger Brewery could have chosen
any day it wished, but those of us
who were born within the smell of this
brewery thought it a particularly apt
day. Friday the 13th has an air of
doom about it.
But as Black Friday draws near,
many Tiger lovers are laying down
hoards of bottles. They should be
worth having. 1962 is said to l: a
very good year.
What about the working-man’s club
in Mildura? Over five years ago the
club, which you will remember has
the longest and thirstiest bar in the
world, had a row with the Carlton
Brewery. It switched to Richmond.
So, too, did the other two great
Mildura clubs. This may sound an
idle gesture, but it wasn't. It meant a
£lOO,OOO pounds a year in business to
the Tiger Brewery. Now the working-
man’s club is returning to the Carlton
fold. In Mildura they say there’s no
question about it at all, Carlton bought
the Tiger Brewery just to get their
business.
HThose who admire the stern, un-
A yielding qualities of the Port Phil-
lipians should take note of Mr John L.
Beech, of Fulham Road, Alphington.
Mr Beech has a fire hydrant in the
middle of his driveway. He has to
make his car do the Twist to get it out
on to the driveway. Perhaps there is
nothing particularly strange in that,
but Mr Beech has been fighting to have
it removed for 38 years. The Council
says the hydrant was there before the
house and that it does not block the
drive. Mr Beech says the house was
there years before and the hydrant does
block the drive. Neither the Council,
the Board of Works nor Mr Beech
will pay to have it removed. A little
flavor is added to the argument by the
fact that Mr Beech is a retired
plumber. Why not, say, one dark
night sneak out and move it himself?
Certainly not. says Mr Beech, it’s the
principle of the thing.
BATMAN


INVESTMENT IN ART
A Sound New Business
By DESMOND O'GRADY and VIC WORSTEAD
Rumors orbiting around Australia’s
art world for weeks before the
recent sale of the Norman Schu-
reck collection included: a plane-
load of Hong Kong businessmen would
be down for the auction, their pockets
bulging; a North Shore syndicate had
put together £30,000 to buy the best
canvases and re-sell them in London.
£30,000 would not have cornered the
market for the event proved even more
fantastic than the rumors. The Schureck
collection, probated at £30,000, brought
a walloping £81,858.
A considerable section of Australia’s
art world was packed into James Law-
son’s shabby upstairs room during the
sticky day-and-a-half of the sale. There
were squatters out to maintain a cultural
tradition, Jewish new Australians, some
of them drawn by the fact that pro-
ceeds were going to the Hebrew Uni-
versity, antique dealers, representatives
of the State galleries, art dealers, women
who said “My husband always wanted a
Turner.” Mr Grimwade of Christies,
the London auctioneers, happened to be
there, as well as a sightseeing pensioner
in a pin-stripe suit and blue shirt who
was asked to remove his hat by a very
correct lady and, sure that he was being
got at, left to her cries of “all I asked
you to do was take your hat off.” The
only sector of the art world not present
were the artists but they would have been
out of place in the bazaar.
The master of ceremonies was Max
Lawson who conducted the sale with a
combination of cheery business efficiency
and corny-funny patter. Balding, be-
spectacled, black-suited, he alternately
jolted and jollied the audience with his
barker’s voice and amiable manner. If
anyone raised a hand to his hair during
bidding Lawson would rap out a warn-
ing: “Don’t do that or you’ll finish up
with a picture.” If bidding was slow he
would offer to sit down and wait. “Do
this for a day-and-a-half,” he told the
crowd seated on rickety wooden chairs,
lining the walls and packed on the stair-
way in a hot-house atmosphere, “and
you’ll lose weight.” Unwontedly personal,
he kept referring to his trip to Coota-
mundra where he was to auction a pub
immediately after the Schureck sale:
“Hurry up,” he would urge, “or I’ll miss
my train. It looks as if I’ll be sleeping in a
tent down there.” At the end of the first
day he told the socially minded they could
toddle off for a cuppa and the show at
the Lyceum. By the second day he knew
everybody ; he startled a minor bidder by
asking whether she had solved her car
parking problem. He did not exaggerate
when he said “some of you have had a
picnic, a circus.”
The chief performers, of course, were
the bidders. As the bids exceeded nearly
everyone’s expectations, the smaller bid-
ders were taken by surprise: some were
flummoxed by the prices for the early
Dobells and bid too high for later can-
vases ; a few collectors who had lived
their lives for Hans Heysen snorted when
a Passmore abstract passed the £3OO mark,
but when Heysen came up they could
not match the final bid of 1000 guineas.
There was one bidder who started off
bravely many times but his courage failed
him as the bids escalated. In the end it
became a three-cornered contest between
two dealers, Terry Clune, a son of the
writer Frank, and Rudy Komon, bidding
for their clients, and a collector,
Major de Vahl Rubin. Their styles
differed: Komon, standing near the
auctioneer, in shirt sleeves and dark
glasses, bid with a slight movement of
the hand or even a nod of the head ;
Clune sat near the aisle towards the back
of the room with a small group about
him and bid with a determined salute ;
Major Rubin, dark-suited, small and rest-
less, roved about the back of the room
bidding from different spots by raising
his catalogue to about chin level and
waiting, with a puckish smile, until the
opposition dropped out.
Max Lawson kept the atmosphere
taut with his manner of raising his pencil
on high and spearing it towards the
bidders, at the same time keeping up his
racy commentary: “2000 the bid is there-
at, the bid is against you, sir, 2100 the
bid is on the post, 2200 it gets you there
sir, 2300 on my right, the bid is against
you sir, 2400 at the back, 2500 in the
centre, 2600 at the back, the bid is against
you sir in the centre, 2700 first, second,
third and last! Sold to Major Rubin.”
The excitement associated with these
rapidly spiralling prices had as much to
do with art as Mr Lawson’s commentaries
on the paintings (on a Tom Roberts
“What a little beauty!—where can you
get a Tom Roberts like that today?” On


Streeton’s “The River London” “It’s
more like the Hawkesbury than anything
you’ll see in England, well they say
memory is the perfume of song. I
thought of the Hawkesbury a lot when
I was over the other side.” On Hercules
Brabazon —Brabazon’s “The House of
Desdemona” “What will we say about
this one? Vacant possession?” On some
pieces listed as Birket Foster [after] “I
don’t care who they’re after, there’s mag-
nificent emotion reflected in them.” On
a beach scene: “I wish I was there now.”
On a Blamire Young, calling to his thick-
necked assistant who deserves to be
painted by Dobell, “show me that again,
Keith —another grand painting, ladies and
gentlemen.” It was altogether fitting that
Lawson was off next day to auction the
much-mentioned pub at Cootamundra,
but what would the other people at the
sale be doing?
Some would be ruefully reflecting on
the prices they had paid in the heat of
the sale. Others would be wondering
just what had happened to the Australian
art world and whether there was any
relationship between aesthetic value and
market value. It was agreed after the sale
that the prices paid for the Dobells were
not only higher than anything ever paid
before in Australia, but also inconsistent.
Who can make sense of a Courbet
bringing only 420 guineas as against
Dobell’s “Study for Woman” bringing
4500 guineas? But whatever the peculiari-
ties of the prices paid and values reflected,
the sale brought home just how much
money there is to be spent on art here.
To many people, the conjunction of
money and art is far more surprising than
the discovery of oil at Moonie but these
days art is considered a blue-chip invest-
ment in most parts of the world and
Australia is no exception. The rise in the
value of Dobell’s works has been widely
noted: the “Woman in Restaurant,”
which brought 4500 guineas at Lawson’s,
was originally sold for less than £ls but
there have been other less well-advertised
increases. For instance, the Nolan Paint-
ings on glass which sold for £ls in 1948
now sell at ten times that price and a
similar increase, at least, applies to most
of the works of Nolan, who sold
£stgl4,ooo worth of paintings in his last
Whitechapel gallery show ; Drysdale can
now ask £2OOO for his paintings with
equanimity and Len French’s works,
which a few years ago could not be sold,
are near four figures today.
The Go-Between
With increases in value such as these,
it is obvious that art is a field for invest-
ment. The only thing is to know which
painters are going to rise in value, and
which will hold their value. It is easier to
pick the former than the latter with the
old masters, obviously, as “blue-chip
stock,” for they usually show a steady
rise. At the moment, it is not too
hazardous to predict that Dickerson is
going to rise in the market. The same
goes for Len French ; a book on French's
paintings is to be published in Melbourne
in the spring and French is off to Greece
shortly. The publication of this book
and a show in London, should it come
off, would see French moving on to the
world market. Telling just which artists
will hold their value and for how long
is a far trickier business. Indeed, it is too
tricky altogether for most businessmen
who are unused to dealing in incalcu-
lables such as taste, so they usually seek
the advice of a dealer. One could write
about a number of dealers, for instance,
of Purves in Melbourne who has many
works of Nolan, Boyd and the Anli-
podeans, but a look at the two who came
into the public eye at the time of the
Schureck sale, Terry Clune and Rudy
Komon, gives an indication of the way
dealers work.
The dealers’ greatest talents are to know
what prices were paid for paintings and
who bought them, what their market
value is at any moment, and how to act
as a go-between satsfactory to both
artists and buyers. In the four and a half
years since Terry Clune started his gal-
lery in Macleay Street, Potts Point, he
has put on eighty-five shows. In that
time art interest has grown until there
is now a steady demand for pictures. A
few of the buyers are straightout specu-
lators who will even try to re-sell a
painting to the gallery weeks later at a
THE NORMAN SCHURECK COLLECTION
WHAT WAS PAID
OIL PAINTINGS
Guineas
DONALD FRIEND —Mother and Child .. .. .. 215
SALI HERMAN —StiII Life, 1946 .. 60
JOSHUA SMITH —The Workman —Portrait in Yellow .. 255
TOM ROBERTS — The Gate 600
GEORGE LAMBERT —Dawne 550
SIR ARTHUR STREETON —Clouds Over Olinda .. .. 625
RUPERT BUNNY —Figure Group .. . . .. .. 220
MICHAEL EMlT —Pomona 290
EUGENE BOUDIN—La Plage 700
AUGUSTUS JOHN —East Indian Girl .. .. .. .. 1000
GUSTAVE COURBET— Seascape 420
AUREL NARAY —The Little Mother .. .. .. .. 380
JOHN PASSMORE —Saturday Fish No. 1 .. .. .. 310
CLIFF PUGH —Cranes in Marshland . . .. .. 85
CONRAD MARTENS —Mountain and Glade .. .. .. 260
ELIOTII GRUNER —The Valley 410
ANDRE LANSKOY— Abstract ' 170
MAURICE UTRILLO—Rue a Montmartre 900
SIR HANS HEYSEN —In the Flinders Range — l94o .. .. 1000
WATERCOLORS AND PASTELS
Guineas
J. M. W. TURNER —Venice 150
J. SKINNER PROUT —Camden Church 150
DESIDERIUS OR BAN —Still Life with Pastels .. .. 115
HERCULES BRABAZON-BRABAZON —Moroccan Stall .. 110
OIL PAINTINGS by William Dobell
Guineas
The Lace Maker .. .. .. .. 1050
The Red Carnation .. .. .. .. .. 1250
Russian Incident .. .. .. .. .. 825
The Cockney Mother .. .. .. .. .. 3000
My Lady Waits .. .. .. .. .. 1700
Dame Mary Gilmore .. .. .. .. .. 2100
Portrait of Norman Schureck .. .. .. 3000
Mother and Children .. .. .. . . 1150
Bridge Across the Thames ) • , , , , . ,
Film Crowd Workers { P ainted both sldes 1900
The Wangi Boy .. .. .. .. . . 4000
Sketch for Wangi Boy .. .. .. .. 850
Another Sketch for Wangi Boy .. .. .. 750
Sketch for the Dirt Cart .. .. .. .. 625
Child Dressing .. .. .. .. .. 800
Festival .. .. .. .. .. .. 425
Old Lady 475
Woman Seated .. .. .. .. .. 675
Fals ta ff 1700
Study for Woman in Restaurant .. .. .. 4500
New Guinea Dancers .. .. .. .. 650
Storm .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 525
The Red Gate 1000
Native Girls .. .. .. .. .. .. 1200
Kensington Gardens —London .. .. .. 1500
The Encampment .. .. .. .. .. 625
The Berry Picker 2000
In the Park .. .. .. .. .. .. 1200
The Life Boat .. .. .. .. .. .. 525
Fals toff ■ ■ • • . - •. .. .. 3200
Mother and Child .. .. .. .. .. 300
Summer Composition at Slade School .. .. 1100
Lakeside with Motor Boat .. .. .. .. 1500
Allegory .. .. .. .. .. .. 1100
Bridge Across the Thames .. .. .. .. 600
William Dobell’s Palette Board .. .. .. 15


30 per cent, mark-up. But this kind of
buying is unusual; middle-class people,
many of them professional men, some of
them young married couples, make up the
bulk of the buyers together with bankers,
brokers and other business people who
are out for an impressive status symbol.
The married couples who are the keenest
buyers at the “12 guineas and under
shows” frequently put a deposit on a
painting, then pay it off in instal-
ments. The bigger buyers are pro-
fessional and business people, who have
an interest in art as a hobby and this
sometimes laps over into speculation.
Another component of the art market is
the overseas visitors who have almost
doubled in numbers since the Olympic
Games were held in Melbourne in 1956.
Top-level management people from
Europe and America on the lookout for
a distinctly Australian souvenir often
select a painting. For instance, recent
buyers of the Clune gallery include the
chairman of a European shipping line,
the vice-president of an American airline
company, and four heads of English com-
panies who visit Australia twice yearly.
His other clients are firms who want to
use art in their offices and here the co-
operation of an architect is vital for a
gallery.
As middle-men in the art world com-
posed of patrons, collectors, galleries,
art societies, painters, students and
critics, the dealers occupy a crucial posi-
tion, particularly in Australia where art
auctions are few. Overseas, auctions
theoretically provide an index to market
values but here dealers keep such infor-
mation largely to themselves.
The Tradition of the New
It is obviously a field in which an un-
scrupulous man could make a profit
at least for a short time. But in fact
men such as Komon have worked hard
as dealers when the takings were small
and uncertain. He says it is still an
all day, seven days a week job, more
interesting than lucrative. Komon, a
Czechoslovak, born in Vienna, was per-
haps the first dealer to introduce Euro-
pean ideas of art dealing to the Aus-
tralian market. European dealers often
have a big enough capital to treat art
as a long-term investment, to establish
“stables” of painters under contract at-
tached to their gallery. Of course, things
are very different in Europe where one can
borrow money on a painting. However,
Komon has stored away paintings of
certain artists which he believes will rise
in value, he has a group of painters linked
with his Woollahra, Sydney, gallery, and
he lends painters money against future
works. Potential buyers at Len French’s
exhibition last year were surprised to
find they had to deal with Komon, who
had obtained all the paintings beforehand,
and not with the directors of the gallery
where the work was exhibited.
On the whole, the market is not big
enough here for fake dealers to flourish.
Probably buyers can be more secure of
obtaining a fair deal from a dealer they
know than by buying at auctions for
auctioneers in Australia, in contrast to
those in Europe, do not have to give
any guarantee as to the authenticity of
listed works. And to gauge the authen-
ticity one has to be more astute than the
monied woman at the Schureck auction
who wanted to know where was the
Dobell signature on one of his smaller
works.
That Rich Old Nostalgia
The market is still small when com-
pared with those overseas: for instance,
the 60-minutes Parke-Bernet auction in
New York last November brought
4,679,250 dollars. The way things are
moving becomes clear, however, when
businessmen ring dealers and instruct
them to buy a Dobell any Dobell
Big money, used indiscriminately, is an
invitation to silly if not improper deals.
We have not yet arrived at “vanity”
galleries which exhibit anything so long
as the artist pays them well; most of
our dealers take about 30 per cent,
commission, but a few can be accused of
pushing artists too hard by giving them
one-man shows before they are ready
to bear the weight of attention this en-
tails.
One result of our art world being
so disorganised is that dealers, in fact,
still control so little of it. They have a
vested interest in what has been called
“the tradition of the new” and the
85gns for Cliff Pugh’s painting in
the Schureck sale is an indication of
their success, for it sold for 25 guineas
a few years ago. Ostensibly they direct
people to good painting but they presume
that there is sufficient good painting to
stage a new show every three weeks
or so, and they are always on the look-
out for the new name with a new style.
They are promoters, on the whole, of
the latest developments in art, all of a
piece with the new buildings which de-
mand new art. Whichever Australian city
you name, the newest buildings carry the
much of the newest art. In Sydney, for
example, Dusseldorp’s Lend Lease Cor-
poration’s building flaunts some ultra
contemporary screens, the Western Assur-
ance (see cover) boasts an intriguing
wrought iron structure at the entrance
and the AMP also accommodates con-
temporary works. But there is
another and flourishing part of
the art market which could be called
the tradition of the old. Norman Lindsay,
at least the etchings and drawings, have
doubled their value and Heysen-Gruner
school hold theirs.
But they have many pale imitators.
The Australian landscape is the pre-
ferred subject and the operators include
fakes who go to the trouble of using
cockatoo feathers, grinding their own
colors and binding them with prickly
pear juice just to ensure their authenticity.
They ignore the fact that the prickly
pear was not introduced until the last
century and that the aborigines used
blood as a binder. They are strong on
aboriginal motifs and are the paleface
version of those aborigines who have
deserted their own forms of expression
to ape the white man’s art. Both types
of fake are welcomed. Other
landscapers assuage their nostalgia by
recording what the camera can do better.
There is a steady market for such work
and anyone who saw a parallel in the
literary field, when Nino Culotta revealed
that popular taste has not changed since
the days of Dennis’s Ginger Mick, should
not be surprised. Who would dare to say
how many of those working in new
offices are like those at Anzac House
who watch with satisfaction as Doug
Annand’s mural on glass slowly falls to
pieces?
Furniture and Fittings
Portrait painting, like landscape paint-
ing, is another traditional and lucrative
field which is largely unaffected by the
crusading dealers. A portraitist has an
assured income once he makes a name
which he will certainly acquire with an
Archibald prize win.
Dealers and galleries cften have
nothing to do with a great proportion
of art buying that which is done
privately. This accounts for the rarity of
exhibitions once a painter has made
a name. Commissions enable him to
keep painting and they go into private
collections without any record of either
price or painting.
This is just one of those things which
make our fragmented and disorganised
art world a province for the specialist.
Beyond the dealers are the important
collectors, people such as Melbourne’s
Aubrey Gibson. Adelaide’s Kim Bonython
and Mrs Bill Hayward, Perth’s Rose
Skinner, Sydney’s Dr Evatt, Tammy
Gheysen, Hannah, James and Warwick
Fairfax, Mervyn Horton, Robert Shaw,
John Landau and Frank Clune. and
Brisbane’s Major de Vahl Rubin. Beyond
the collector yet again is the patron
and here, one name in particular springs
to mind: John Reed of Melbourne,
director of the Museum of Modern Art,
who sponsors what he believes as the
best in art with an unremitting
enthusiasm.
The patronage of institutions and
firms, as distinct from that of individuals,


is an important influence in the art world.
A contact between an architect and a
painter can be most fruitful as that
between Neville Grugman, the architect,
and Eric Smith has proved. The em-
ployment of State galleries funds can
be of vital importance to the develop-
ment of art: National Gallery in Mel-
bourne, for instance, invariably buys
a painting from a show, and this
in turn indicates how important it is
who is appointed as a gallery trustee.
Encouragement by an institution such
as the Reserve Bank can also be a major
influence. Under Dr Coombs direction,
the Reserve Bank has interested itself in
the development of Australian art paying
particular attention to the younger
painters and the results can be seen in
the corridors of the Martin Place bank
and in the changing exhibition in the
bank's showcase window. They have
made a feature of commissioning artists
to design their Christmas cards which
reproduce Australian works.
Success in London
Art is in in a big way, it is the vogue to
have a painting in every office and foyer,
and reproductions of the great masters
will no longer do—an original, however
uninspired, is preferred. Churchill is
partly to blame for amateur painting
. becoming a vogue thing also, but the art
market is a field protected from do-it-
yourself competition. Indeed buyers seem
to expect high prices for they reassure
. them that what they are buying is of
some value ; no executive's hackles rise if
a dealer asks a three-figure price for a
painting, mainly because art expenses can
be set down and written off as furniture
and fittings.
Often they are regarded solely as that:
furniture and fittings. One stockbroker,
having just sent a painting out for sale,
said “We’re in the market for another ...
more in keeping with the wall you
know.” Sometimes paintings are in keep-
ing with the walls and the rest of the
building. For instance, John Lysagnts is
proud of a solidly Victorian portrait of
William Sandford, Australia’s first iron-
master, but it is not true of the Sydney
Stock Exchange. The Exchange building
is one of the best examples of contem-
porary architecture in Australia but a
photographic Douglas Pratt canvas is at
the entrance to the administrative floor,
and committeemen get relief from
money matters by enjoying a painting of
an idyllic country scene. Fourteen floors
up, prominent brokers King and Yuill
display an old Exhange in watercolor,
John Vogel's work, as well as harbor
scenes, in an unfashionable style, by G. F.
Lawrence. L. J. Hooker’s boardroom
displays a taste slightly more conserva-
tive than the policies decided there: the
artists represented are Roland Wakelin,
Robert Johnson, John D. Moore, Sali
Herman and Elaine Haxton.
For Whom the Dobells Toil
A fine example of congruity between
structure and decoration, and a pointer
to future uses of art was given when
Alitalia inaugurated its new Sydney-
Rome route last Friday. The design and
execution of the plane's interior decora-
tion was handled by one of Italy’s lead-
ing architects who has made it a taste-
ful travelling art gallery. Outstanding
Italian contemporary painters are repre-
sented and passengers can arrange to buy
the works. This is but the latest example
of the extended use of contemporary art
overseas, and we can expect greater use on
Australia’s airways and railways. In the
same way, we might expect our diplo-
matic representatives to hang some
contemporary Australian originals in their
offices—it would help offset the image
created by an excess of Bondi beach
scenes.
The demand for art in our expanding
society has doubtless been helped by
beneficent tax laws: capital gain from a
sale of paintings is tax free, which makes
it a most attractive form of investment,
particularly as paintings can be a pro-
tection against both inflation and
deflation. Investors are also consoled by
the thought that the gift of a work of
art to a museum can be deducted as a
charitable contribution: a man with an
income of £5OOO a year would only have
to donate two of the £2500 Dobelis to a
museum to avoid paying tax at all. Of
course he may prefer, as some have, to
sell Dobells to America at some thous-
ands per cent, profit, but to keep very
quiet about it less he be taxed as a
dealer.
The realisation that contemporary art
means big money is concomitant with
an affluent society but, as well as this
general cause, there are a number of
factors which have heightened the
specific interest in Australian art in recent
years. Perhaps the principal one has
been the success of Australian painters
in London. Dobell and Drysdale have
been known there for some time but
it was Sidney Nolan, with his great talent
both for painting and public relations,
who made the biggest breakthrough.
He crowned his recognition and Aus-
tralia's when a book on his art appeared
last year; it was the first book on a
living Australian painter to be published
in England. His success was followed by
that of others in London such as Arthur
Boyd, Albert Tucker and Charles Black-
man, and that of still others on the
continent. The Whitechapel exhibition
in London last June brought still further
attention to Australian art and shortly
the disputed Australian collection recent-
ly shown in Adelaide will be at the Tate
Gallery. Kim Bonython’s book on con-
temporary Australian art was another
factor: since it appeared an increasing
number of books have focused attention
on Australian art and two histories and
a dictionary are scheduled for production
shortly, as well as many monographs.
Another factor has been the "Time’
commissions to Dobell for two of its
cover portraits. The £1,000,000 Dr John
Power bequest to Sydney University will
be yet another boost.
An art market is inevitable but an
emphasis on the investment aspect of
art is unfortunate and can be deleterious.
Patrons must have a disinterested iove
for art, collectors must be moved by
their liking for a picture rather than
by the profits they can glean from it, an
artist too conscious of his market is
always tempted to paint for it. An invest-
ment e lphasis ignores the significant
questions of the art world, such as the
proper role of gallery trustees whether
they should maintain the col-
lections entrusted to them or dictate the
selection of new works or the question of
the diverse ideals and achievements of
Drysdale and Dickerson, or the abstract
impressionists and the Annandale Im-
itation Realists.
The quickening of the art market
will not greatly affect most artists al-
though it may raise their expectations.
They will go on living their, in the
main, unbohemian lives working at a
job and painting whenever they can. In
a complex metropolis a bohemian exist-
ence, with its uncertainties, is no way
to spurn the bourgeoisie because it is
most apt to throw the artist into such
debt that he has to modify his work to
suit the market. The millenium has not
begun for the art world: the Claude
Hotchin Gallery, the oldest in Perth, is
to close because the space it occupies in
a department store is too valuable, Rose
Skinner’s Perth gallery runs at a loss,
the open air exhibitions in Hobart’s
Franklin Square, which used to be
popular, stopped about two years ago. On
the whole, however, the art market is be-
having as one would expect it to do in
an affluent society, even during a credit
squeeze for then some of those who
are wealthy are more inclined to invest
in painting than in shares. Some Euro-
pean papers publish the movement of
prices on certain old masters’ works
daily but any intending investors here
will have to get to see the paintings them-
selves before buying them for although
art can be an investment, as a price is put
on a unique article one has really to
back one’s taste. Disillusion awaits those
who, although without judgment or
expert advice, belie - e that when the
carillons of cash ling out in the art
world, they are the ones for whom the
Dobells toil.


OUT AND ABOUT:
THE EXCLUSIVE MR TAYLOR
"We are not careful to answer thee in this matter."
From BILL WILSON in New York
44 A s cold water to a thirsty soul,
AA so is good news from a far
J- country.” Any Plymouth Breth-
ren Bulletin readers will be
familiar with this line from the Book of
Proverbs —but an authoritative brother
in the far country of America did little
this week to help his embattled brethren
in Sydney.
In New York this week I tried to inter-
view James Taylor, leader of the Exclu-
sive Order of The Brethren, but my
struggle naught availeth. In fact, like
Job, he escaped with the skin of his
teeth.
If the Plymouth Brethren may be said
to have any headquarters it is here in the
United States, where the sect has a mem-
bership of 33,000 in 665 churches. The
sect govern themselves by Scripture, a
strict interpretation of the Bible, and
have no formal theological dogma or
church hierarchy. Indeed, the sect com-
prises eight separate groups in the US
and each group accepts the Biblical in-
junction to “Let not thy left hand know
what thy right hand doeth” and ex-
tended it to apply to the Press.
One of the groups is known as the
Exclusive Order of Plymouth Brethren
and James Taylor is generally acknow-
ledged to be its leader. He is sometimes
called “God.”
I found Mr Taylor prospering by the
sweat of his brow as he sent off a bundle
of textiles from the Taylor Linen Com-
pany, whose premises are in a downtown
canyon in New York’s industrial section.
Mr Taylor—a tall, spare man in his
late forties, bespectacled and with a ready
smile —had declined to accept a visit
from a Bulletin representative, in spite
of the Scriptural injunction to “Let your
light so shine before men, that they may
see your good works.” Determined to
allow him this opportunity, I went to his
linen warehouse.
When I introduced myself he assured
me that he was extremely busy and had
nothing to say. After listening to some
harsh words about the Press and “pub-
licity seekers” I asked about some of
the rules of behavior followed by the
Brethren.
He admitted it was inadmissible for a
brother to join a trade union, and —un-
able to recall anything about organised
labor in the Bible I asked him if he
could tell me the Biblical passage upon
which this rule was based.
He could.
“Be not unequally yoked with un-
believers,” he said, and this has an un-
deniably Biblical ring. I suggested it
would then be all right for the Brethren
to join a trade union if all the members
were co-religionists.
“No,” said Mr Taylor, “but I will not
discuss things for publication.” He smiled
and refused to go on. He would probably
talk warmly about any subject other than
his sect.
He refused to answer any questions
about himself or the sect’s membership
and place of worship. “I don’t have to
tell you anything,” he is fond of repeating.
Other groups of American Plymouth
Brethren know little about the Taylor
sect and deprecate its exclusivity, its
extremism and in some cases its
existence.
A professor of theology, the Rev
Robert Shin, of Astern Baptist College
in Pennsylvania, who is engaged on a
history of the Plymouth Brethren, had
not heard of Mr Taylor.
A. M. Liozeau, the Brethren’s informa-
tion officer in the US, believed Taylor
lived in California but was not sure.
The expert on comparative religion at
the principal American school of divinity,
the union Theological Seminary, knew of
only one Brethren chapel and that
in a New Jersey village.
The sect has a small membership for
the US 33,000 but is active in
missionary work. For this, it is legally
required to be incorporated and is
affiliated with the Christian Missions in
many lands. The small Taylor group is
not known to be a corporation.
All the brethren follow a doctrine of
“extreme evangelicalism,” according to
Professor Shin, and are “very loosely
organised, with no ecclesiastic head, no
convention or board or any other govern-
ing body.
“It is an extreme kind of Congrega-
tionalism,” said Dr Shin.
The sect was founded near Dublin in
Ireland in 1827. It later emigrated to
England and became centred on
Plymouth, from where its name was
derived.
Late in the 19th century the group
became more diffused and an American
following was noticed, led by James
Darcy. An Australian sect may have
appeared at about the same time.
The brethren believe in the imminence
of Christ’s return but do not generally
share the Exclusive Order’s strictness out-
side their places of worship, which are
known as gospel halls or local assemblies.
The major scholar of the sect is con-
sidered to be Dr F. S. Black, of England.
The Exclusive Order’s and James
Taylor’s mania for secrecy baffles
the open order of the Plymouth Breth-
ren as much as it baffles anyone else.
The Brethren make no effort to pub-
licise their activities but fully agree with
the 15th chapter of Proverbs, which
says : “A word spoken in good season,
how good it is.”
But Mr Taylor’s text for the Bulletin
on the other hand came from Daniel:
“We are not careful to answer thee
in this matter,” he said.


ZOE CALDWELL: EXPORT QUALITY
What Has Australia to Offer Her?
By LOIS HUNTER
Zoe Caldwell’s return to Australia
to play in “St Joan” creates a pre-
cedent in Australian theatre. She
is the first local talent to be both
exported and imported by the Elizabethan
Trust. In these two moves the trust have
shown foresight and imagination—quali-
ties not often attributed to them.
The trust helped Miss Caldwell to go
to Stratford-on-Avon four years ago
when she was female lead in their per-
manent company. Now that her overseas
reputation is established, they have
brought her back to star in a play suited
to her abilities.
Her contract with Stratford-on-Avon
in 1958 guaranteed the 24-year-old
actress from Victoria nine months’ work
at about £9 a week. She played walk-ons
until “Pericles,” the last play of the
season, when she had two lines of dia-
logue. Stratford renewed her contract
and in her second season she played
Cordelia to Laughton’s Lear, Bianca to
Paul Robeson’s Othello and Helena in
“All’s Well.” In spite of the stiff com-
petition in “All’s Well” —Edith Evans
played the Countess —she received good
notices.
Miss Caldwell says that much of her
success in “All’s Well” was due to the
producer, Tyrone Guthrie. The “New
Statesman” said: “Miss Caldwell pro-
mises to be the best Shakespearean actress
of the decade.” The “Sunday Times” and
“Observer” named her in their Best
Actors of the Year list.
From Stratford she went to the Royal
Court Theatre. At Royal Court she
played Isabella in Middleton’s “The
Changeling,” which was directed by Tony
Richardson and co-starred Mary Ure
and Robert Shaw, and Jacqueline in
lonesco’s “Jacques,” directed by Oscar
Lewenstein.
“These people at the Royal Court had
fresh ideas and attitudes, just as Aus-
tralians have,” Miss Caldwell said. “In
this atmosphere 1 was able to learn new
things, yet still retain my basic Austra-
lianness.
“Too often actors are tempted to sink
their nationality and thus lose their
identity in a new environment. They are
worse actors because of it. It is as sense-
less as aggressive and superficial Aus-
tralianism. You know —the sort of ex-
patriate who, after 10 years in Europe,
still says ‘good-day, dig’ in every second
sentence.
From the Royal Court Miss Caldwell
went to star in a six months’ season at
Stratford, Ontario, for Tyrone Guthrie.
Mr Guthrie has asked her to return after
her Australian tour.
Although Miss Caldwell is now only
28, she has been in theatre since 1946.
She started off as Slightly in “Peter Pan”
when she was 12. From the age of 17
she worked for the Union Theatre in
Melbourne. She left it to join the trust,
and remained with them from their first
production, “Medea,” until she left for
England.
And she was always an interesting
actress who came up with surprises. Her
Ophelia, to Paul Rogers’s Hamlet, was
outstanding and provocative. In the early
scenes, she underplayed almost to the
point of anonymity. The audience was
settling back to enjoy the comfortable
drama of the mad scene, when it was
shocked out of its complacency. Fey,
sweet Ophelia was transformed into a
ravaged, beautiful creature wrenched
into a premature adulthood by a world
in which lovers were cruel and fathers
were murdered. If she was mad, there
was surely meaning in her madness.
Many of the first-nighters resented the
shock. Lady Slim, when congratulating
the cast afterwards, enthused until she
reached Miss Caldwell. “Of course, it's
a very difficult role, isn’t it?” she said
sympathetically. Others, including one
or two critics, realised that it was an im-j
portant performance ; Miss Caldwell
an actress to watch.
Now, five years later, she is still
absorbed in theatre, but unable to talk
small talk about it. When she arrived
back in Australia she wanted to tell the;
Press about what was happening in
theatre in Russia (she visited the USSR
in her first season with the Stratford
company), in England and in Canada.
And she wanted to ask questions about
Australian theatre. The trust’s PR man'
kept insisting. “How about when Lau-|
rence Olivier clipped your hedge?” but
to no avail.
What will Miss Caldwell do next? She
wants to stay here and do an Australian!;
play, and in order to do so has relink
quished the role of Titania in Tony
Richardson’s film version of “A Mid-1
summer Night’s Dream.”
But, now we have a problem. V.’hen
we have an actor or actress in Australia
who has made good, and is prepared to
sacrifice both prestige and money to stay
here what have we got to offer them?
It is a hard one to answer.
BLACK ORPHEUS IN
WHITE AUSTRALIA
"No Discrimination Here"
By CHARLES SRIBER
Anybody who saw the film “Black
Orpheus” was probably struck by
the very un-Australian carnival
scene in which the people of Rio
de Janiero let themselves go with an
abandon that contrasts forcibly with our
Anglo-Saxon reserve. It seems re-
markable, then, that a native of Rio,
a dancer and participant in the carnival
and other frenetic dancing displays
should like this country “because it’s
so like Brazil.”
Yet 32-year-old Antonio Rodriguez
is very happy in Australia and hopes his
very dark skin will not make him liable
to an early ejection. Primarily a dancer,
he has branched out as a painter and
sculptor and has his sights set on a
dramatic career which might be impeded
by his rather unintelligible accent. If
this should be the case it is not likely
to cause him any concern because, as
he puts it, “If I have a bed to sleep in,
a space to dance in, and a piece of wood
to carve I’m happy.”
Antonio Rodriguez first came to this


country as a member of the Katherine
Dunham group. And before joining this
American dancer he was connected with
a “folklore” group in Brazil. He never
intended to be a dancer. His father was
a farmer and he began his career as a
shoemaker and, according to him, a
damned good shoemaker he was. But
in his native Rio everyone dances and
according to Rodriguez the spirit of
voodoo is still struggling with official
Christianity as a governing spiritual force.
“Everything we do is related to voo-
doo,” he says, and to prove his point
carries around with him a set of minia-
ture voodoo instruments. These take the
form of a small steel bracket with tiny
knives, chisels, cleavers and strangely
wrought pincers. But what is voodoo?
Antonio shakes his head and digresses.
“Brazilian culture,” he avows, “is basi-
cally African. We carry on the dances,
music and songs of the Africans.” The
Brazilian-Indian influence, he maintains,
is non-existent and the Portuguese has
become absorbed beneath the powerful
African stream.
How does Rodriguez equate this ex-
troversion with life in Melbourne? “Well,
the main thing is that I never meet any
discrimination here,” he said. “All I
find is friendliness. I walk into a butcher
shop and say, ‘Hey, can you give me a
handful of cows’ teeth, I wanna make
some jewellery?’ and the butcher he
says, ‘Sure’ and he hands me over a
handful of teeth and never gives it an-
other thought.” And to prove the point
he puts his hand in his pocket and
casually tosses a handful of bleached
teeth. “Haven't made ’em into nothing
yet, but I will,” he said.
Antonio Rodriguez began dancing
professionally when some friends promp-
ted him to take seriously what he had
previously done for fun. The opportunity
came to join a “folklore” group which
was to tour South America and he
became a full-time dancer. The tour was
a success and the company went to
Europe where he appeared in London
at a Royal Command performance.
Royal photographer Baron was interested
in his rather tense and sensitive face
and photographs of Antonio were ex-
hibited in London.
Even today a record album of negro
spiritual songs with a photograph of
Rodriguez as cover design is on sale.
He points out that he is no singer and
has nothing to do with the disc. He was
dancing in Lisbon when Katherine Dun-
ham offered him a place in her group.
“I was nervous when that happened,”
Rodriguez said. “I didn't think I was
good enough and after my try-out I
went up to her and said, ‘Lady, you better
give me my passport and I’ll get back
to Brazil.’ ” But Katherine Dunham hung
onto his passport and he soon fitted into
the group and began composing dances
for them.
Eventually the Katherine Dunham
dancers arrived in Australia. By this time
Antonio had fallen in love with a slim
and graceful dancer from New York
called Yolanda Gaffne. They were
married and a son was born in Mel-
bourne. The new responsibility forced
them to leave the dance group which
left for the Far East without them. Later
they separated and Yolanda is now danc-
ing in India; their son is with her.
But she it was who prompted Rodri-
guez to take up sculpture. She had ad-
mired the work of another sculptor. “I
can do as good as that,” he told her
firmly and proved his point by hacking
at an old piece of timber with a borrowed
screwdriver.
Federal Treasurer Harold Holt has
bought his sculpture and so have Stanley
Korman and the Melbourne Museum
of Modern Art. He has had a financially
unsuccessful one-man exhibition in
Sydney and two highly successful exhi-
bitions in Melbourne.
In between sculpting, painting, teach-
ing dancing and dancing himself he has
appeared at the Phillip Theatre, Sydney,
and on several TV shows, and to make a
l|-hour film called “Coast Watch” in
which he played the role of a New Guinea
sergeant. He is planning a venture with
two other negro performers which will
be built around formation of a dance,
musical and mime group to tour Aus-
tralia.
“For heaven s sake, Helen, stop treating everything objectively ."


NEW YORK NEWSLETTER:
"THUNDER FROM
THE RIGHT"
The CA CC f the Birchites, the National Indignation Conven-
fioners, We the People f the Minutemen, the Project Alerters
and others .
From GEORGE McGANN
Australia’s contribution to the cause
of militant anti-communism, Dr
Fred Schwarz, is bringing his Chris-
tian Anti-Communism Crusade
back to New York in a few weeks to the
very arena where Dr Billy Graham sought
without much success to save the citizenry
in his celebrated Crusade for Christ. A
minor success in Sydney, Dr Schwarz will
exude supreme confidence and lively
evangelistic fervor as he contemplates
Madison Square Garden and the prospect
of filling it daily and nightly with crowds
eager to absorb his message.
Dr Schwarz in the short space of three
years has made his crusade the most
popular, and most financially successful,
of all the burgeoning anti-communist
movements in America.
Despite the crusade’s quick rise to
million-dollar-a-year status, Dr Schwarz
likes to picture himself as an educator.
He denies he is peddling reactionary
political doctrines or that he makes
common cause with such Right-wing
groups as the John Birch Society,
the National Indignation Convention,
We the People, Project Alert or the
Minutemen. He insists that his mission is
solely to educate Americans to the ever-
growing dangers of communism: it is
for others to find methods of halting or
thwarting the Red menace.
Although he attempts to disassociate
himself from the crackpot fringe on the
far Right, these elements follow the
Schwarz Crusade from city to city, offer-
ing their peculiar solutions to the threats
he uncovers. Dr Schwarz steadfastly
refuses to criticise the John Birchers or
other extremists, at the same time
piously insisting it is “guilt by associ-
ation” to include his crusade in the
ranks of the Right-wing.
He is but one of many voices
his has the novelty value of the Austra-
lian twang —clamoring for attention
from the far Right fringe.
There are many, many others. Some
estimates place the total of new Right-
wing groups as high as two thousand,
with a total yearly income in the vicinity
of 100 million dollars.
Large corporations have a particular
affinity for Right-wing politics and poli-
ticians. Industrial giants such as General
Electric, Goodyear Tyre and Rubber,
Boeing Aircraft, Minnesota Mining and
Manufacturing, and the Aluminium Com-
pany of America contribute heavily to
various Right-wing organisations.
Businessmen bulk large in the rank-and-
file of the Right-wing groups—particu-
larly those in the Middle West, the South
and California, the heartland of crack-
pottery. “Little old ladies in tennis shoes”
flock to meetings in large numbers. By
and large, the middle-aged and the old-
aged dominate the John Birch Society
although there are scattered defiant
Birchite cells in universities.
Many people liken the current upsurge
of Right-wing activity to the “thunder
from the Right” which rumbled fiercely
across America during the McCarthy era
a decade ago.
I emphatically disagree. The Senator
from Wisconsin had the immense prestige
of the United States Senate to exploit
and in addition had control of several


powerful Senate committees. He was able
to whip up a storm of suspicion and
hatred in America which set neighbor
against neighbor in a manner unparalleled
since the Civil War. He was a unique
phenomenon. With his boozy death the
country regained basic sanity.
There is no McCarthy in the ranks of
the Right-wingers today, although the
likes of General Walker of Texas, the
Reverend Billy Cash of Oklahoma and
Robert Welch, founder of the Birchites,
no doubt aspire to his role. But they lack
the truly evil character, the demagogic
appeal and the political luck which made
McCarthy a major figure in US affairs.
The ultraconservative fringe move-
ment is an old and historic tradition in
this country. One hundred years ago the
“Know Nothing” party was agitating
against the influx of immigrants from
Ireland. After the Civil War the Ku
Klux Klan was organised by Southern
whites to subdue the liberated negroes.
Later a variety of nativist societies,
including the Populist Party, sprang up
to “Keep America Protestant”, white,
non-Jewish and politically uncontamin-
ated by insidious foreign influence.
Following World War I the Ku Klux
Klan name was taken by northern bigots
and racists who donned white robes and
burned crosses —and an occasional Jewish
synagogue or Catholic convent.
In the depression days of the early
thirties Father Coughlin inveighed weekly
to tremendous radio audiences, warning
of the danger from “international Jewish
bankers” and communist intellectuals.
Now we have the Birchites and the rest
in full cry against a lurid variety of
enemies. The present resurgence of Right-
wing crusades has its origins in Russian
space achievements, in frustration over
the communist coup in Cuba and the
abortive anti-Castro invasion last year,
and in old-fashioned American isola-
tionism, which never dies.
Not all of the fringe groups believe that
President Eisenhower was a dedicated
agent of Moscow, as Birchite Welch con-
tends. Not all agitate for the impeach-
ment of Supreme Court Justice Earl
Warren, because of the Court’s order to
integrate Southern schools (which,
strangely, Welch also seeks). But they
agree on a surprising number of
objectives.
These include immediate invasion of
Cuba, repeal of the Federal income tax,
abolition of all foreign aid, withdrawal
from the United Nations, from NATO,
SEATO (and, presumably, the Inter-
national Geophysical Society), dismant-
ling the social security system, turning
over TVA to private industry and
generally “taking the Government out of
business.”
Other objectives include tearing down
the Berlin wall, encouraging Soviet satel-
“I consider We’re exempt, so long as We stick to tea leaves !”
lites to rebel, giving medals to Generals
Franco and Salazar, yanking UN
troops out of the Congo, putting Moishe
Tshombe firmly in power, “exposing
Reds” in the US Government, Press, pul-
pit and school systems and boycotting
most American newspapers, particularly
“The New York Times.”
For added fun they also fight the
fluoridation of drinking water as a sinister
Red plot masquerading as an anti-tooth
decay measure.
Actually, most of the faithful on the
far Right dwell primarily on the alleged
domestic Red menace, not on the
legitimate Soviet threat from abroad. A
basic tenet of the radical Right is that
America is being betrayed from within,
that treason by Leftists, Liberals, Demo-
crats and Rockefeller Republicans will
bring the country to its knees and make
it an easy prey for external aggression.
The Minutemen are so convinced of
this eventuality that they have armed
all their members for guerrilla warfare,
under the slogan “Pledge Yourself And
Your Rifle To A Free America.”
The important thing to remember,
however, is that the Minutemen and the
Birchites and the Project Alerters are
talking mainly to each other. The rest
of the country is not really listening—
as it did, fearfully, during the McCarthy
madness.
The Birchites and their ilk have evoked
contemptuous rebuke from conservative
Republicans Goldwater and Nixon, from
the Protestant, Catholic and Jewish clergy,
and from the President himself. (It is
well to recall that President Eisenhower
never spoke out against McCarthy, even
when the Senator was raking the US
Army over the coals and his old com-
rades-in-arms were begging Ike for help.)
President Kennedy, with his usual gift
for vivid speech, characterised the
extremists of the Right-wing quite
accurately:
“There are those who cannot face the
burdens and frustrations of the problems
facing the nation which do not lend
themselves to easy or quick or permanent
solutions.”
“They lack confidence in our long-run
capacity to survive and succeed. Hating
communism, they see communism in the
long run perhaps as the wave of the
future. And they want some quick and
easy and final and cheap solutions —•
now.”
Most significant, in my opinion, has
been the attitude of the Roman Catholic
Church towards the Birch Society
which is supposed to have enrolled a
large Catholic element and other ex-
treme Right groups.
Few Catholic clergymen spoke out
against Senator McCarthy, whose ad-
mirers certainly included Cardinal Spell-
man. Now, tempered by the McCarthy
experience, the Catholic Church in effect
has declared war on the Right-wing
mob with the inauguration of a
“campaign for sanity” sparked by the
powerful National Catholic Welfare
Conference which is the central adminis-
trative organ of the Catholic Bishops.
The Bishops have accused the Birchites
and the rest of actually doing the work
of the communists.
“Those who would have America con-
centrate on a minor threat of domestic
subversion and ignore subversion and
communist pressure in Europe, Asia,
Africa, and South America are misleading
the American people,” the Bishops
stated. “Whatever their motives, they are
effectively aiding the communist cause.”
They never said that about McCarthy.


Mr McEWEN PUSHES IN
The Man in the Eighth Chair
From NEIL McINNES in Brussels
To judge from the atmosphere in the
Common Market headquarters on
the eve of Deputy Prime Minister
McEwen’s arrival, his visit had
little hope of furthering Australia’s claim
for “the eighth chair"’ in other words,
for a direct voice in the negotiations
between Britain and the Six
whenever matters of vital concern to
Australia came up. On the other hand,
he may have been impressed with the
new solicitude and helpfulness among
Common Market authorities about any-
thing that regards the interests of Aus-
tralia and the Commonwealth generally.
The problem he will take home to
Canberra is whether the second is as
good as the first: whether Australia
must reconcile herself to exclusion from
the negotiations, in exchange for the
apparently sincere assurance that the
Europeans are aware of their respon-
sibilities and are ready to arrange matters
so that Australia suffers no loss when
Britain enters the Common Market.
The word “responsibilities” is not
mine and I would have left it to the
Deputy PM to speak gravely of
Europe’s responsibilities to Australia and
other Commonwealth countries. But it
is a word one hears constantly in the
ECM’s palace, situated in what the
British hope is the aptly named Avenue
de la Joyeuse Entree. For in recent
months ECM officials have totted up just
what the enlarged Common Market (the
Six + Britain + Denmark + Ireland) will
mean in world trade, and particularly
how large a part of total w'orld exports
of temperate-zone food it will be buying.
It is scarcely an exaggeration to say that
they are appalled at the result. The Con-
tinentals always knew, in general terms,
that Britain imported most of her food,
but it has only lately been widely realised
that when Britain’s purchases are added
to those of the Six, you have a unit
that is buying 68 p.c. of wheat enter-
ing world trade, 68 p.c. of the butter,
58 p.c. of the wool, etc. The impli-
cation is evident: the first season, after
Britain’s entry, that the prices of these
commodities fall, farmers in Australia
and Argentina are not going to be talk-
ing about “bad times” or the anonymous
forces of “trade” they will point to
23-27 Avenue de la Joyeuse Entree,
Brussels, and say “There’s the culprit.”
By uniting, Europe will lose the facility
of hiding behind “the world market”
and will be obliged to assume its res-
ponsibilities as the preponderant force
in that market.
That’s why ECM officials say there
is no need for Australia to appear in
person to argue her case; they are only
too well aware that they have to make an
arrangement that will be acceptable to
countries in her situation. It has just been
agreed by the Council of Ministers that
Australian representatives will be admit-
ted to a meeting of the Ministers’ de-
puties (the Six’s and Britain’s) where
they may depose a memorandum; but
there is no question of the Australians
being admitted to repeated consultations
on every matter Canberra thinks vital.
The Six argue that if Australia were
admitted in this way, virtually enjoying
an eighth chair, every other Common-
wealth member would ask the same right,
and at once the USA would want similar
facilities for her Latin American flock.
The result would be an Irish Parliament,
everyone talking and no one listening.
And all that, say the Six, to hammer
home a fact they are already painfully
conscious of: their responsibilities to
primary produce exporters once they,
plus Britain, emerge as the world’s big-
gest buyer.
To this, the Australian mission here
reply that, on the points where Australia
wants an eighth chair (discussions of
wheat, meat, wine, canned fruit are the
main ones), the number of other coun-
tries that could invoke the Australian
precedent is limited, so few in reality
that there would be no harm in admitting
them, too. Maybe ten or twelve chairs
for the big sessions. Of course, the Aus-
tralians mean that only Commonwealth
members would be entitled to invoke
the Australian precedent, because the
subject is the consequences of Britain’s
entry. But the ECM seriously doubts
whether Argentina would stand by while
Commonwealth meat exporters argued
for guarantees, whether Spain would
watch Australia and South Africa secure
their European wine market, etc. In brief,
once let the Australians in and it becomes
an open slather, even though the pretext
for letting them in was Britain's entry
to the Common Market.
HThis answer is doubly unsatisfactory
to the Australian mission because, in
addition to asking them to forego par-
ticipation in the negotiations on the
grounds that Europe is aware of its “res-
ponsibilities,” it seems to put the Com-
monwealth on the same footing as sundry
other primary-produce exporters when
one of the main objectives is to preserve
the British Commonwealth after Britain
joins Europe. Fortunately, it is on this
point that Continental attitudes have
evolved most markedly in the last year:
there is a “Commonwealth-consciousness”
in Brussels that is new and goes far
beyond lip-service to the “factor of stab-
ility represented by this great, association
etc. etc.” It might not yet extend up
as far as the Council of Ministers, but
in the supra-national Commission
where men have to divest themselves of
petty nationalism in order to build some-
thing bigger and, if possible, better than
a nation there is genuine admiration
for the Commonwealth as far as it is a
precursor in a similar line, and a concern
for its future after Britain joins. This
is a repetition on a larger scale of what
happened when France pressganged her
then-colonies into the Common Market
against the will of Germans and Italians
whose principled anti-colonialism covered


a profound indifference to what be-
came of Africa and its remote inhab-
itants: the Brussels machinery has be-
come a solicitous and able defender of
the interests of 16 now independent
African States. Similarly, Britain’s ap-
proach has widened their horizons fur-
ther, and they would like to be able to
prove that the Commonwealth can en-
dure when Britain joins Europe.
Indeed, one meets ECM officials today
who are more royalist than the king:
they deplore that, in private, the British
delegation here tends to divide the Com-
monwealth into “our white cousins” who
must be protected at all costs, and certain
other members whose continued loyalty
to Britain is so dubious that no great
sacrifice seems worthwhile. Quite the
contrary, having become Commonwealth-
supporters, ECM bureaucrats want to
save the whole show and especially its
best claim on their interest, its multi-
racial character.
Europe’s awareness of its respon-
sibilities, and a favorable disposition
toward the Commonwealth at the Com-
mon Market headquarters these might
seem insubstantial safeguards compared
with the apparently efficacious guarantee
of Australian participation in discussions
of trade in her main export commodities.
Yet on many of the subjects where Aus-
tralia wants to be admitted to argue her
case in detail, it is very likely that Britain
and the Six will never go beyond gener-
alities, until after Britain is a full mem-
ber. At this stage, they may simply
adopt two basic principles: gradual
abolition of all discrimination between
Europe’s suppliers, and preservation of
those suppliers’ export earnings (they
may sell Europe less, but at higher
prices). If Britain contents herself with
this solution of principle (and why should
she not, since she will have a powerful
voice in applying those principles once
she is a member), Australia’s insistence
on detailed consultation immediately will
have even less chance of being accepted.
Mr McEwen’s tour will not have booked
Australia that eighth chair, but the news
'he takes back will not be discouraging.
THE REIGN
IN SPAIN
No freedom, no charity, no money
By SALVADOR DE MADARIAGA
S pain’s application to enter the Euro-
pean Economic Community de-
mands an objective examination not
merely of her entry into the Com-
mon Market but of her re-entry into
Europe. Why, it may be asked, has Spain
ever left Europe? Yes, the answer must
be ; if, that is, the questioner is fully
aware of what Europe means.
Twenty-five years of political stability
together with the economic growth which
it has permitted, have tended to obscure
the issue in the eyes of insufficiently in-
formed observers. Naturally, the regime
has not remained altogether inactive.
Some of its exertions have been praise-
worthy ; in particular, the reconstruction
of bombed towns and villages, which has
been carried out with efficiency and good
taste. Other achievements to its credit
are reafforestation and hydroelectric
work ; though in this last sector of its
enterprise, the achievement has been
marred by two major disasters attributed
by some observers to corruption. That a
number of beneficial activities must be
put down to the credit of the State is,
however, by no means a basis for con-
cluding that the regime is what it should
be. It would have to be infrahuman to
have stood altogether in the way of that
natural progress which a healthy country
achieves by its very existence. The ques-
tion remains, is the Spanish regime fit to
enter Europe?
Europe means a Christian-Socratic
tradition. It means a way of life in which
the individual is respected, can think as
he likes, move as he wishes and associate
as he thinks fit ; and it means a world in
which man behaves towards man with
charity. None of these norms of Euro-
pean life obtains in Spain. It may be
argued that they are at times broken in
this or that European country. But the
fact that they have to be broken proves
that they are there, that they are the
system. In Spain they have not to be
broken, because they are not in vigor.
The system in Spain is precisely the re-
verse of the Christian-Socratic tradition.
There is no freedom, and there is no
charity.
As for freedom, it will suffice to say
that there is no free Press, no real parlia-
ment, no trade unions, no freedom of
association, no guarantee against abuses
of power on the part of the police, the
military or indeed any Government de-
partment. As to charity, Spain is, with
Portugal, the Western country in which
the difference between the rich and the
poor is by far the biggest. Neither the
Spanish landlord nor the Spanish capi-
talist has emulated the spectacular pro-
gress achieved by their European counter-
parts since the Second World War in
public spirit and social conscience. Land
laborers still hunger not merely for land
but for daily bread, and the profits of
capital are the highest and the least taxed
in Europe.
r T~'His, though grave, is, however, not the
most un-Christian feature of the
regime ; since the combination of anti-
Socratic and anti-Christian tendencies in
the regime leads to the negation of even
the most elementary human rights. Since
Nato, the Council of Europe and the
European Economic Community are all
explicitly based on the Christian-Socratic
tradition which has given forth liberal
democracy, the admission of Spain into
the Common Market would but increase
the general unbelief caused by the pres-
ence of Portugal in Nato. This would
be bad enough, but by no means the
worst consequence of the admission of
Spain.
The issue is clear. The unity of Europe
is indispensable in order to face the
danger from communism. But why are
we against communism? Certainly not
owing to its economic tenets, its so-
called Marxism ; for there are millions
of Marxist and near-Marxist socialists on
our side of the fence. We are against
communism because it violates the Chris-
tian democratic tradition of freedom-
charity, which is exactly what the present
Spanish regime does. If we, therefore,
accept Spain under this regime into our
European institutions, we destroy the
very basis of our struggle against com-
munism.
This would provide communism with
a formidable advantage. It is essential
for European opinion to realise that the
present Spanish regime, far from being
as it is too often asserted a bulwark
against communism in Spain, is on the
contrary fostering it daily. Here are
some of the reasons for this fact which
every sincere and competent observer
can confirm:
• The regime tolerates no political
parties. Therefore the only political party
that thrives is that which is both used to
clandestine activity and free from


financial worries namely the com-
munist ;
• The growing disparity between rich
and poor favors communism. Whenever
there is a rise or any other kind of
attack against the regime the authorities
accuse the communists. This increases
their popularity ;
• The Spanish people hear no Spanish
voice attacking the regime and standing
up for their liberties except those of com-
munist radios. They, therefore, tend to
believe that, outside Spain, no one thinks
of their freedom but the communists.
'T'he Spanish people know that the re-
gime sent telegrams of congratula-
tions to the Japanese Admiral who des-
troyed the American fleet at Pearl Harbor
and to the Quisling Laurel, who took
over the Philippines in the service of
Japan. They now see American admirals
and Secretaries of State arm in arm with
the regime. This launches a chain of
feeling which, though elementary, is
dangerous: “I am against the regime. The
USA is for it. Ergo, I am against the
USA. The Soviet Union is against the
USA. I am for the Soviet Union.”
So that Western Europe is today exist-
ing along two incoherent directions. North
of the Pyrenees, towards a loose federa-
tion or co-operative of States based on
the Christian-Socratic tradition of free-
dom-charity. South of the Pyrenees, to-
wards a final struggle between two forms
of political life both inimical to such a
tradition: the fascist-militarist and the
communist-policeist. This struggle, if left
to itself, must end in a communist Spain
or in another military dictatorship or
possibly in a draw, or even an alliance,
since communism is not far from fascism
in politics, and fascism is not far from
communism in economics.
South of the Pyrenees, the Spanish
Europeans are elbowed out, ostracised,
gagged, jailed, tortured and often dubbed
communists. They feel betrayed by the
Europeans of the North. These non-
Spanish western Europeans are entitled
to claim that the Spaniards must bear
the responsibility of their own civil war.
But they themselves also have a degree
of responsibility in this civil war and in
its consequences. France and Britain
should have completed their non-inter-
vention in the war with an active inter-
vention for peace. In so far as they did
not do it, they share a heavy responsi-
bility for the present state of Spain. Italy
and Germany bear an even heavier one,
since without the help of Hitler and
Mussolini the Civil War would have
ended much sooner.
But the duty of Western Europe to do
something about Spain is not merely one
of retribution and atonement for past
faults. It is founded on common sense,
on the requirements of the future and
on the higher interests of Europe herself.
It makes no sense that the Six or the
Seven or the Six and Seven should en-
deavor so hard to build up a free united
Europe while they let the most important
territory in the Continent continue rot-
ting under a fascist-militarist Government
or fall into the hands of communism.
While the present regime lasts, Spain will
be the refuge of all the anti-Europeans
for whom Degrelle, Salan and Skorzenny
can stand as examples and symbols. But
that is only the symptom of the evil. The
evil itself is deeper: Is Europe indifferent
to freedom to the extent of remaining
passive before the lack of freedom of 35
million Europeans in her Iberian pro-
vince? Is Europe European? Europe
will not exist until it acts as such ; will
not unite until it unites for a purpose ;
will not survive if she cannot see that if
nothing is done, her death is sure to
come from Spain.
WHAT'S WRONG WITH
INDIAN FOREIGN POLICY
A National Weakness for Double-think.
By M. K. HALDAR an Indian Correspondent
Before the advent of Pandit Nehru in
the Indian National Congress, the
premier political organisation in
India hardly took any interest in
foreign affairs. Cambridge-trained young
Pandit Nehru, affected by some sort of
Fabian socialist thought current in his
student-days, became the architect of the
foreign policy of the Indian National
Congress. The old guards of the Congress
were busy with shaping the party.
Panditji talked of foreign policy and
national planning. During the days of
Spanish Civil War the Indian National
Congress under the influence of Pandit
Nehru did not remain neutral. We could
set the danger of Fascism. But this did
not take us far. Our concern for national
independence, our theoretical confusion
and our opportunistic wishes that our
rulers should be beaten by some one when
we ourselves cannot do it led us to the
policy of “sitting on the fence” when
the Allied forces were fighting the battle
of their life against the Fascists. In a
major issue like that, the Indian National
Congress preferred to remain neutral. We
got our independence owing to an Act
passed in the British Parliament and we
paid homage to the great Netaji whose
success would have brought the death of
the very Parliament which passed the
Indian Independence Act. But such
ironies do not strike us possibly because
our land is a land of ironies. We eat
the American wheat and speak about
socialism and try to emulate the plans of
communist countries. Our public sector
is being largely financed by a Govern-
ment which we have branded as a
capitalist Government. We have pro-
claimed co-existence and neutrality as
the basis of our foreign policy. We have
also declared that we are against
colonialism. It means that we do not
want to co-exist with colonialism.
Even Panditji has recognised that
colonialism of the old type is a dying
force. We have given a kick to
colonialism by sending our soldiers into
Goa. But we are not so very conscious
of the new colonialism which has already
taken away quite a big part of the earth
and also quite a big chunk of our terri-
tories. When we think of Chinese occupa-
tion of Indian land, we think of world
war and also of our military weakness.
As a matter of fact, that is what we are
being told now by those who are running
the Government. We say that we are
taking measures to liberate our land from
the Chinese. But at the same time we
shudder at our own lack of power to do
so and also the danger of a global war
if we take any effective measure against
Chinese occupation. We talk of Chinese


occupation of our land and of the belli-
gerent wishes of Pakistan against us from
the same pulpit. Only a political charla-
tan will believe that Pakistan has any
belligerant wishes against India. Our
trouble with Pakistan was implied in the
division of the country. It continues to
be exactly at the same place where it was
in August, 1947. But our trouble with
Chinese communists, with a number of
Indian communists supporting them, is
a new and expanding menace.
The leaders of a nation cannot do any-
thing worse than cowering down the
morale of the people. When England had
to go to war against Germany in 1939,
England did not have much military
power to resist the Fascist onslaught. Yet
Churchill never talked of lack of power.
He kept the morale of the British people
high. But our leaders are saying that we
are not strong enough to resist Chinese
aggression and thus undermining the
morale of the people. Possibly they have
been taken in too much by the propa-
ganda of a so-called Russo-Chinese rift.
Possibly we think that China might be
our enemy ; Russia is our friend. If that
be so, why the talk of global war if we
want to take our land back from the
Chinese? It is possible that having known
classical colonialism, we cannot believe
that a communist country can also be
colonial. It is also possible that we are
not willing to fight where an actual fight
is needed. Communists are not stopping
their expansionist policy because of the
fear of a global war. Countries after
countries are being annexed by them.
There is hardly any newly independent
country where the communists are not
trying to subvert the existing democratic
Governments, sometimes with moral
support from the Moscow-Peking axis,
sometimes with covert military support
from the communist powers. Our
foreign policy is against war when our
enemy is either strong or when we have
spiritual sympathy for the political
philosophy of our enemy.
We think that the communist and non-
communist world can co-exist. We have
tried to build up a political philosophy
out of this. This may be branded as the
philosophy of co-existence or the
philosophy of neutralism. Now,
co-existence is a fact. The only guarantee
foi the co-existence of the free world and
the communist world is the balance of
power. Today the communists share with
their opponents a realistic endeavor to
conduct the struggle in forms that mini-
mise the risk of world war, as they are
not quite sure of their victory. That is
why they are interested in keeping some
countries outside any military bloc. They
know that they are the only people who
can take recourse to covert subversion
and infiltration. They are not to face even
the people of their own country They
have not to bother about the criticisms
of a free Press. With them the fact that
a non-communist country remains neutral
is a matter of expediency.
IHUhether a nation should choose to
remain neutral, is a matter of
expediency. It does not involve any moral
choice. Neutrality is not a standoffish
attitude towards a threat which intends
to jeopardise everything that we have held
sacred so long. The concept of “neutra-
lity” has significance only in so far as
those, to whom it relates, believe in the
essential weakness of their own beliefs.
Between value and negation of value the
choice is absolute: there is no room for
neutrality. Neutrality, if it is to be culti-
vated as a philosophy of life, must be
based on a system of values.
To what success has our policy of
neutralism and our belief in the theory
of co-existence led us? We are success-
fully co-existing with Poland—a country
with which we do not have any problem.
But what success have we registered with
countries which have common borders
with us? The position of Indians in
Ceylon and Burma has become ridiculous.
We have failed to co-exist with them.
Politically we have failed in Nepal. King
Mahendra is inviting the Chinese to con-
struct roads in Nepal. With Pakistan we
are in perpetual quarrel. With the
Chinese we do not know where our
borders lie. Our northern borders are
being pushed further to the south by
them. We are only sending notes of
protest while the Chinese are busy going
about in their own ways. Even in the
newly independent African countries our
stock is the lowest. We may soon have
to accept millions of Indian refugees from
the different newly independent countries
of Africa. Our moral stock with the
Western world is the lowest today We
depend on the Soviet veto to justify our
ethics. Despite our policy to help ;he
education of the newly independent
African countries, we are breeding the
most virulent types of anti-Indians in our
land. The reports on the attitudes of
African students in India towards the
Indians is significant. We have changed
the meaning of “non-violence’'’ to justify
our action in Goa. Pandiji's Press con-
ference after the Goa operation is signifi-
cant in this respect. It reveals how far
we go with the ideas of the “Father of
the Nation.”
"Courteen years of independence have
led our foreign policy to the successes
already enumerated. We have of course
acted in different UN commissions In
these commissions again our neutralist
policy has often led us to agree with the
communist countries rather than with the
free world. We have tried to get Com-
munist China into the UN though we
ourselves have confessed that Peking is
not interested to get into it. We have
received substantial foreign aid not
because of our foreign policy but in spite
of it.
A sort of Micawberian wishful thinking
has affected the foreign policy of India.
We want to avoid unnecessary troubles,
compromise with our enemies and wait
for “something to turn up.” But what else
can we do? An answer to this problem
will depend on how the situation is
assessed. If we think that we have failed
in our foreign policy, we shall have to
recognise the dangers we are facing. We
should try to build up a bigger and more
flexible military capacity ; organise a
concerted propaganda policy both inside
the country and outside, as well as in the
UN. Open up more avenues for better
relations with countries who will stand
by our side. But for all this we need to
declare unequivocally our political faith.
A neutralist faith is nothing but absence
of faith. We must not confuse expediency
with ethics, and try to make a philosophy
out of expediency, a virtue of necessity.
Between the Free world and the com-
munist bloc the choice is absolute. Sit-
ting on the fence is not always right even
as a temporary expedient.


FORUM
HOW WRONG
IS XAVIER HERBERT?
The Case for the Aborigines
1—A Place Like Tran by
F is ungrateful of Mr Xavier Herbert to abuse the aborigines after so many
years, for the lust, drunkenness and misery out of which he has made his
writing reputation. Also in “A Town Li\e Elliott” he exhibits the Puritan’s
confusion between morality and economics .
If you refuse to lurk at Mr Herbert’s
upper window, with your ear flapping
for the aborigines’ diuretic and copula-
tive goings-on behind the pub, then he
has another complaint : The unhygienic
conditions of the “Boongville” camps,
infested with “hookworm, ringworm, im-
petigo, pediculosis, gastro-enteritis and
TB because there is no sanitation.”
Instead of making these squalid con-
ditions an excuse for the cry, “There is
No Solution to the Aborigines' Problem,”
I should have thought they offered urgent
reason why they should be wiped out
rather than the poor devils whose apathy
and disease result from them. “The race,”
Mr Herbert complains, “which 1 was
brought up to believe was doomed to
swift extinction is now explosive to
proliferacy." Disappointing, no doubt,
but no Government or health officer can
afford the personal pessimism of our
author who washes his hands of the
whole issue. His lifetime study has
brought him to the conclusion that the
aborigines, mixed-bloods and full-bloods,
want “their own way of living.” So what?
Doesn t he? Don't Greeks, Italians,
Jews, want their own way of living with-
in the Australian frame? Are they the
worse citizens because they retain racial
and religious customs and pride?
The problems of the aborigines largely
arise because their highly moral and
economically efficient society was des-
troyed with little they could understand
to take its place. Their way of living
was a co-operative one and not a com-
petitive one. By patient teaching and
skilled advice it is possible to give both
full-bloods and mixed-bloods a way of
life which satisfies their need to belong
to their own racial groups and yet work
as modern economic units.
Last week the Numbahging (Cabbage
Tree Island) Aborigines Rural Co-opera-
tive paid its first dividend. In November
it will harvest its first crop of sugar cane.
Apart from the Island land the Co-opera-
tive leases 1500 acres on the mainland.
It runs a co-operative store with a bank
and post office with the first aboriginal
to become a Commonwealth postmaster.
The directors of the co-operative were
given a course of management in Syd-
ney at Tranby Aborigines Co-operative
Centre. They went on a tour sponsored
by the Wholesale Co-operative Society
so that they could learn buying, the at-
tractive setting out of goods and the fine
points of running a business. At Cab-
bage- Tree Island the aborigines attended
classes at night under Russ McCrohan,
the schoolteacher, on how to form a co-
operative. On a shoestring, of course,
they have hammered out a way of work-
ing together that gives them satisfaction
and self-respect.
Behind their success is goodwill, a
goodwill that is unfortunately lacking in
“A Town Like Elliott.” It was the good-
will of local farmers who helped plough
and lent their implements when the co-op.
was too poor to buy its own. It was the
goodwill of the A.B.M. Co-operative
Board which scraped together the initial
capital for the store. It was white good-
will which set up Tranby Aborigines
Co-operative Training Centre at Glebe,
Sydney, where full-bloods, mixed-bloods,
half-castes, Torres Strait Islanders live
with white Australian university and
college students while they learn not only
skilled trades, but the techniques of
leadership in co-operation among their
own people.
To give these young people scholar-
ships to Tranby all kinds of church and
social organisations, trade unions and
business groups have helped. The NSW
Aborigines Welfare Board has given its
support and the Minister for Housing
and Cooperatives has granted £5OOO for
building extensions. The Directors of
the A.B.M. Christian Co-operative Board
are hard-headed people. They know this
is a long-term venture but believe the
results will justify the labor and money.
At the present time preliminary work in
the establishment of co-operatives is
being undertaken at Condoblin. Murrim
Bridge and Tabulam.
Sydney University's Adult Education
Board threw its goodwill into the holding
of the last Tranby Summer School to
which came Government and mission em-
ployees, aborigines from all States. In
residence at Tranby today are 10 scholar-
ship 'holders from Mitcheli River (Cape
York), Tabulam, Cabbage Tree Island,
Raleigh, Torres Strait Islands, Kempsey.
Anthropologists now agree that group
ownership is more in line with aboriginal
economic concepts than individual owner-
ship. Our State and Federal Government
departments are being persuaded by the
success of co-operatives in other countries
among primitive people and are coming
to study this other alternative to the
“swift extinction” or assimilation “by
scattering” which was offered in the 19th
century where Mr Herbert still lurks.
Mr Paul Hasluck, whose work might
well be studied in Queensland, is setting
up a pilot consumers' co-operative in
the Northern Territory. In North-West-
ern Australia the co-operative idea is
warmly welcomed by missionary bodies,
both Protestant and Roman Catholic.
The Catholics have a powerful example
in the work of the Antigonish Move-
ment centred at St Francis Xavier Uni-
versity, Nova Scotia. I have before me
copies of the Ordinances of 195 S and
1959 by which the Canadian Government
has helped set up 12 co-operatives among
their aboriginal people, the Eskimos,
resulting in the financial year 1960-61 of
a return of 85,000 dollars to the small
scattered tribes.
Tranby’s director, the Rev. “Alf” Clint,
will next year have a trained aboriginal
assistant going out to instruct his people,
and a trained aboriginal secretary from
the Associated Girls' Centre, Duranga-
ling. Dee Why, where young women (and
very pretty, the present half-dozen are)
train as typists, secretaries, store man-
agers. This is a very different picture
from Herbert's slave prostitutes and a


possible one for Queensland, as it is for
NSW.
These young men and women are not
merely a trained “elite” cut off from their
own kind. They are there with the wishes
and hopes of their people behind them
No two have- the same problems, but they
are trained to the idea that their whole
group must come up, little by little,
rather than individuals cutting free to
compete with whites.
It is hard, patient, long-distance work.
The only thing that would prevent its
success in Queensland would be, not the
aborigines, but a preponderance of people
like Mr Herbert whose egotism is fed
by the contemplation of someone else’s
supposedly insoluble misery.
Mr Herbert’s quaint account of how
he pestered out of a mixed-blood the
admission that he would like to eat a
Chinaman shows just how naif some
white men can be. An aboriginal, like
most primitive people, will always agree
with you, agree most politely, reserving
the right to consider you quite crazy.
As an antidote to Mr Herbert, T. G. H.
Strehlow’s well-balanced pamphlet, “No-
mads in No Man’s Land,” deals with full-
blood aborigines and is the result of this
Commonwealth Patrol Officer’s many
years of observation and experience. He
was born at Hermannsburg and watched
Albert Namatjira from boyhood to his
tragic nemesis. Strehlow draws the simple
conclusion that no aboriginal or mixed-
blood can cut himself off from his group
to stand alone. The whites who patron-
ised Namatjira did not understand the
ties and tribal obligations he owed to his
own people.
At Tranby there is a young aboriginal
artist from the Gulf country of Queens-
land. He is studying art at East Sydney
Technical College. He will never expect
to “go it alone,” nor will he be asked
to do so. The tribal and racial group is
basic. The economy must fit the pattern
that suits the people.
In some places five years of training
and adult education have gone on before
the people themselves understood and
asked for a co-operative venture of their
own. Patience, long-distance work, good-
will, all are needed. And for the indi-
vidual pessimist —the exercise of a sense
of humor.
KYLIE TENNANT
2—“ Name One Town”
By KEN BRINDLE
(Secretary, All Blacks Football Club, Redfern, Sydney)
A 5 a half-caste aboriginal, l challenge the claim by Xavier Herbert that there
is no solution to the aborigines problem “except to go bac\ to our own
way of living,” which to him means eating Chinamen. Mr Herbert will
probably object to my use of “us” in this article since I’m a half-caste and he
says there is an enormous difference between the true blac\ man and the
lighter colored cross-breed. So let me tell Mr Herbert why cross-breeds {like
me) who have lived in fringe settlements, feel that articles such as his,
slander “us” along with the full-bloods.
Nearly every half, quarter, or lesser
caste aboriginal has grown up on a Gov-
ernment Reserve, mission station, or
fringe settlement because their white
fathers, grandfathers, or remoter ancestors
just dumped them there with their
full-blood mothers when they’d had their
fun. They were not taken into their
father's white home and recognised as
his children, educated and cared for,
but the “semi-human” blacks, to use
Herbert’s words, brought them up along
with their own full-blood kids. So we
feel, most of us, that we belong with the
blacks, not with the whites who ditched
our mothers, grandmothers, or great
grandmothers, and we say “we” when
talking about aborigines full-bloods or
lesser castes. (I won’t discuss the quality
of the white blood to be found in a
lot of the places in North Queensland
and the Northern Territory. I’m sure
Mr Herbert knows more about that than
I do.)
In the Northern Territory these days,
if you’ve got a spot of white blood you’re
a citizen, if you’re a full-blood you’re
a ward.
In Queensland if you’re a full-blood,
even if you're exempted from the act,
you still don’t get a vote; that’s reserved
for the whites, the naturalised new Aus-
tralians and the half-blacks. Mr Herbert
and Mr Hasluck did not have to think
this one up Hitler and the South
Africans got in first.
An article like Mr Herbert’s (who had
a black nurse like all of us) does a lot
of harm. They tell me he’s well known
and he talks about Queensland and the
Northern Territory as places he’s lived
in, and about the aborigines as people
he’s known. A lot of people who’ve never
met an aboriginal will think he knows
what he’s talking about and will turn a
deaf ear when we ask for full citizen-
ship, for equal pay, for a decent chance
for our kids. And believe me, in a coun-
try like Australia, with a strong color
bar, just an off-white skin starts you off
with a big disadvantage.
People like Mr Herbert writing about
aborigines living in foul humpies and
feeding like dogs, and, with dogs, be-
coming more and more degenerate, helps
to put all of us, mixed and full-bloods,
still further down the scale than the
Asians, Indians, and Malayans whom
the Government welcomes under the
Colombo Plan.
I’m not educated like Mr Herbert. I
only went to sixth class at school. Al-
though I wanted to further my educa-
tion then, the Aborigines Protection
Board bundled me off to work on a sheep
station near Tamworth for about £3
per month, plus keep. But I picked up a
bit of extra education in the Army, and
I worked 12 hours a day (because I
needed the overtime) machine setting.
But I’d like to go through his article
and nail the lies in it.
If an uneducated aboriginal (black with
a small “b” to Mr Herbert) like me
can find out the legal position of
aborigines and their rights and lack of
them, Mr Herbert could do the same.
He says the aboriginal fringe settle-
ment (Boongville) “is a state that suits
the race so well that they might have
stuck to it generation in and generation
out.” Let Mr Herbert tell me what al-
ternative my people had when they were
driven off their tribal lands, their society
disrupted, forbidden to hunt their food
because they might disturb the grazing
cattle.
Let him name one town in the whole
of Australia that has welcomed them on
an equal basis as human beings. When
they were evicted from their lands they
were given only one choice to stay
and become unpaid workers, except for
handouts on the cattle stations, or be
hunted away, or shot, or poisoned.
That was in the past, people say. The
past is pretty recent for aborigines. It’s
only in the last few years that Govern-
ments and people have become worried
about our conditions and started housing
and training schemes.
Mr Herbert says we have it soft today,
with full social benefits and full citizen-
ship if we really want it, full pay and
all. Let’s just take Queensland and the
Northern Territory which Mr Herbert
mostly talks about. It was only late in
1959 that the Commonwealth Govern-
ment included full-bloods for full social
service benefits, and in these two States
the number who handle their own social


While you are
in Europe
visit the
INTERNATIONAL FAIR
The world’s achievements in industry, techniques
and science displayed and demonstrated by over 55
countries.
JUNE JO-24, 1962
The Best Meeting Place In The World For East-West Trade Transactions
In this expansive review of world progress, the
organisation of the POZNAN INTERNATIONAL
FAIR presents congenial opportunities for personal
contacts between businessmen from all countries, in
every field of commercial enterprise.
Visas obtainable in Sydney at short notice.
All information can be
obtained immediately from :
COMMERCIAL DIVISION
Polish Consulate General,
62 Drumalbyn Road,
Bellevue Hill, Sydney. 36-2005
Cables : “POLHAN,” Sydney.
services money could probably be
counted on two hands. Perhaps he could
tell me how many get unemployment
relief, although for thousands there’s no
work to be had.
Full citizenship is a joke. Even in NSW,
aborigines, mixed as well as full-bloods,
don’t have it unless they apply for an
exemption ticket or a dog's licence
as it is more commonly known and
that can be taken away whenever the
Welfare Board feels like it; and there
are only about 200 full-bloods in NSW.
Full Pay? In Queensland there is a
special award for aboriginal pastoral
workers (which most aborigines work at),
much lower than the white ward, and
the aboriginal doesn’t control his own
wages, as low as they are.
Full Rights? On Queensland settle-
ments the aboriginal can’t marry without
permission. He can be directed to work
for 32 hours a week for food and lodg-
ing only, or directed to a job outside the
settlement. He can’t leave the settlement
without permission. His children are
under the legal guardianship of the Direc-
tor of Aboriginal Affairs. He can’t vote.
He doesn't get a legal trial, but can be
banished to Palm Island on the say-so
of the Superintendent. Remember the
Jim Jacko (flogging) case?
In the Northern Territory nearly all
full-bloods are “wards,” and their lives
are controlled by white authorities. Just
have a look at the scale of wages for
aboriginal workers and then talk about
full pay.
Agricultural £2 per week; building £5;
domestic £2; droving-plant and stock £10;
droving-plant only £5; pastoral, timber,
transport, £2 ; municipal £3 10s. ; mining
underground £6.
Mr Herbert says aborigines live by
prostitution of their womenfolk and
semi-beggary. I think he knows how
much choice the aborigines and their
wives had with some of the types to be
found in Northern Australia. As to semi-
beggary, with no skills, no jobs, would
he rather they starved? I wonder w'hat
he would have done under the same
circumstances.
TTe says that North Queensland black
A - L children have been going to school
with white for a couple of generations. A
very few might. About 50% still live on
Government settlements or Mission Re-
serves; and teachers at aboriginal schools
in Queensland don't have to have any
qualifications.
The Australian Board of Missions
publishes “Focus,” which says that the
Diocese of Carpentaria wants the Queens-
land Department of Education to take
over the schooling. The Rev B. I. Chiu
writes of appalling conditions in schools
for aborigines, and says inadequacies in
staffing school buildings and teaching
systems and facilities have plunged the
schools into educational darkness.
The aboriginal teachers in these
schools, he says, “have all only been
through these schools themselves, with
one exception. As a result, no aboriginal
child who has successfully completed the
primary classes in the aboriginal mission
schools can take his place even in a
class of white children four or five years
younger than himself. Who would call
this equal schooling?”
And when aboriginal parents and the
Northern Territory Government want to
give the full-blood children of Elliott the
reality of equal schooling with a trained
teacher, Mr Herbert talks of them as
a people doomed to non-progress, the
poorest of poor who will be with us
always; the boongs, and stinkers. This
must come pretty close to libelling the
aborigines of Elliott.
Then Mr . Herbert ends with the story
of Charlie, the full-blood who had all
the chances in life and ended up in a
filthy fringe settlement with only one
ambition, to be like his great grandfather
and eat a Chinaman.
I could end my article with a. story of
a degenerate pure white, who wouldn't
change his chance of a doss in Sydney's
night refuge for a mansion on Potts
Point, but I wouldn’t condemn the whole
white race on these grounds. Instead I'll
ask Mr Herbert why he doesn’t take a
look at the' aborigines, mostly full-
bloods, who are battling to run their
own co-operative in some of the poorest
country in Australia. It's so poor, the
whites don’t want it unless minerals or
oil are found there. If this happens the
aborigines will be tipped out as they
have been at Weipa and Mapoon. with-
out compensation, to become fringe
dwellers without hope or help.
Why doesn't he look at the aborigines
in Darwin who have formed their own
association to battle for full rights? If
we've got it so good, why am I and a
lot of other aborigines, both half and
full-bloods and also white people, going
to a National Conference in Adelaide
at Easter to put forward plans for help-
ing my people? I'm going because in
NSW my people are still second-class
citizens, and because my full-blood
brothers in other States have even less
rights than we have here.
I think all Australians should know
these things, and 1 think every decent
Australian will help us. The white way
of life is not the only one, and where
aborigines are a large proportion of the
community, as they are in the north, they
should not be compelled to assimilate.
When they know enough about the
white way, and not just what they have
learned in the past from the many
white dead-beats and drunks in these
places, they can make their own decision.
At present, driven off their tribal lands,
herded into settlements with white super-
visors—or should I say dictators?—their
children taught in a foreign language,
and with no possibility of a job for
the great majority of them, is it any
wonder they are confused? And is it any
wonder that we think it's time aborigines
had a say in their own affairs?


LETTERS
THE ABC OF SIN
Sir,
Literally hundreds of resentful, de-
pressed, frustrated and underpaid em-
ployees of the ABC all over Australia
must have by now aligned themselves
with the Two ABC Sinners (Bulletin,
March 10 and March 24). Let me make
a third and say at the risk of imprison-
ment that in a number of years’ work
with various organisations in various
countries in the field of radio and tele-
vision I have never come across such a
repressively bureaucratic system as exists
in the ABC, nor been distressed by con-
tact with such a collection of disloyal
employees. In a number of years I have
never heard one single employee and
I have met hundreds who had a good
word to say for Management. Those
production people who can leave, leave.
We have lost dozens of first-class
people in the last few years. Some have
gone to commercial stations, many have
left the country. Those who stay know
they will never be admitted to a share
in ABC government. They know some-
thing of television. This is unforgivable.
My own reaction to the partial reprint
of Dr Darling’s Armidale address
(Bulletin, February 24) is one of stunned
amazement. Is he so blind, so led-by-
the-nose, as to actually believe what he
writes? Surely not. Is he, then, an utter
hypocrite? Or is ABC Sinner No. 1
right in supposing that he actually in-
tends to make a clean sweep and set
things up so that they function humanely
and efficiently? If No. 1 is right, then
I have news for Dr Darling.
First, the Staff Association, “strong”
according to the good Doctor, has gone
on record to many members of staff as
saying that it can do nothing for the TV
production staff, who can be reduced in
pay and grading, or kept marking time
on the bottom of their grade in spite of
increased responsibilities, without reason
assigned. The system is that of a Pro-
ducers’ Assessment Committee, before
which producers cannot appear, to whom
no representations can be made, and who
are uniformly unacquainted, practically,
with production problems. They have,
none of the four of them, ever con-
trolled a programme in their lives. No
member of the Auxiliary staff among
whom most of the producers are num-
bered has any pension rights, any
Due to an oversight in our last
week's issue, the signature of the
first letter on the “Letters” page was
omitted. The author of the letter,
“A Reply to Senator Spooner,” was
Mr H. W. Herbert, who originally
wrote the article, “Snowy Elephant,”
for the February 10 issue of The
Bulletin.
promotion rights; they can be dismissed,
without reason assigned, or threatened
with dismissal for such reasons as being
late for a weekly staff meeting al-
though in ABC regulations, “crimes”
leading to dismissal are defined as
drunkenness on duty, conviction before
the courts of criminal offences, etc.
One senior official was heard in the
presence of three witnesses to say to a
new employee who had suffered financial
loss and degradation of status after
joining with a guarantee of work : “I
had to give you a bum steer, you know,
to get you in.” Producers have been re-
fused entitled increments, assigned pro-
grammes for which they have protested
their unsuitability, and subsequently
been refused promotion or degraded on
the unbacked assertion of “bad work.”
The reason given, straight from Kafka,
is “The needs of the organisation.” In
the Talks Department, five supervisors
and a Head are passing around the paper
on jobs handled until six months ago
by two men without any noticeable
appreciation in programme output in
fact, “Four Corners,” one of the few
successful shows mounted by Talks in
the past year, has been removed from
their control. As one depressed Officer
put it (and isn’t that word Officer indica-
tive of the bogus Army attitude of the
bosses?) “All those chiefs and only us
few Indians . . .”. In this same depart-
ment, men earning two to three thousand
a year must seek permission to use a
taxi; may not use their car to cover fifty
necessary miles a day; and must have
their memos vetted by the Head. They
may not see what alterations he makes
in these memos, and may never receive
any written answer to their complaints.
All initiative is carefully beaten out of
the ideas men on whom Dr Darling
professes himself to be so dependent.
But, let us be fair . . . this is all the
fault of the system. A series of regula-
tions designed to expedite and/or check
the activities of Government clerks in,
say a department of Lands or Health,
has been clamped, holus bolus, on to the
highly skilled, sharply differentiated and
creative activities of professional people.
It doesn't come off, and it never will.
The system ensures that the mediocre,
the bully, and the crawler get to the
top. Never praise anyone except your
superior. There they sit, usually knowing
a minimum of practical techniques dating
from their extreme youth in radio, and
having no practical experience of TV
administration or production, or of film.
This wouldn’t matter if the system, plus
their own terror of being discovered in
their ignorance, did not prevent them
from delegating responsibility. There is
literally no delegation to production
level, except what is stolen unperceived
or given by a rarely generous head, or
one who knows darn well that if he
doesn’t, the programme will never get
on. Every documentary programme the
ABC has put on has been produced
under this second method, cutting out
the departmental ignoramus who would
otherwise, though an eager beaver, clutter
up the producer with well-meant but
un-informed “arrangements.” All this is
strictly contrary, of course, to regulations,
which firmly maintain that the producer
should have no say in “content.” When
—or if the clamp-down occurs,
the output will seize up. Of course, it
doesn’t matter ... we can always buy
more stuff from America and Britain,
can’t we?
Most senior officers don’t even know
the difference between a film treatment,
a camera script and a commentary script.
Five of these men form a committee to
decide what ideas shall be filmed and
what not filmed. None have any ex-
perience of film-making, from the point
of view either of budget, or staff time,
or methods. They can’t even understand
simple film terminology. Yet they earn
more for impeding those who do know
than the technical and production experts
on whom Dr Darling relies. When they
have finished their term of office they
will be pensioned; the experts will be
fired without compensation when their
usefulness declines.
If Dr Darling really does intend to
be a new broom, it can only be through
extensive high-echelon sacking, which in
its turn can only be achieved through an
Act of Parliament. Will this occur? I
prophesy NO.
They say every country gets the Gov-
ernment it deserves. What can ours have
done to deserve a system which leaves
us so far behind every other Western
country in this medium? Canada has a
similar population, but sells TV shows
overseas regularly. Here it is headline
news if one of our products is even
acceptable. How can we arrange our
national broadcasting organisation so
that it is no longer run by Buz-fuzes,
Heeps and Squeers?
ABC SINNER No 3
PURSUING THE NAKED TRUTH
Sir,
We nudists have provided free copy
for comedians and cartoonists for a long
time, and have joined in much of
the fun. Now, the Sunspot incident
(Bulletin, March 31 and March 24) has
provided us with the first opportunity of
placing our point of view before the
public.
I went to Brisbane, not to tilt at the
city’s fathers, but primarily to help a
family in distress (the proprietor of the
Sunspot has lost his job), and secondly
to ensure “the creditable presentation of
the practice of nudism to the general
public,” as my Federation’s Constitution
indicates. This was an instinctive closing
of our ranks against a possible threat
to the right to put our ideas and ideals
into practice.
We are a minority and are likely to
remain so. We have been heartened by
the general tolerance of public opinion
on this occasion, and are grateful for


the chance to offer it some enlighten-
ment.
1 should like to make one further
point:
(1) In our ranks, we have quite a
number of staunch church-goers, and had
I known that nudism was to be discussed
after Evening Service in Brisbane last
Sunday, 1 should have offered our point
of view to the discussion, just as I did
to that of the Queensland Rationalist
Society.
JOHN BOSWELL
(Secretary Australian Federation
of Sun Clubs)
Austral (NSW).
STRZELECKI’S LOLITA
Sir,
As you have kindly mentioned my
name in “National Notebook” of your
popular weekly (Bulletin, March 17),
I hope you will permit me to express
some of my views.
I am certainly not so much concerned
about Miss Heney’s wrong spelling of
the name of Adyna Turno’s mother and
half a dozen others as well, I am even
not so much concerned with the book it-
self, as with the reaction of the Aus-
tralian Press,' which followed the
publication of the “Dark Glass.”
1 heartily agree with you, that the only
thing which matters is the value of
Strzelecki's explorations. Certainly for a
historian, it does not matter whether
Strzelecki wore striped or dotted under-
wear, but just the fact that he was the
early discoverer of gold and silver, that
he named the highest peak in Australia,
was the first explorer of South Gipps-
land and the author of the first im-
portant book on Australian geology.
Miss Heney is trying to belittle all his
achievements and qualities. And here are
some expressions of opinion from the
Australian Press : the “Count was
bogus,” “a minor and colorless figure,”
“a poor relation of a family with some
pretensions to nobility,” “ a self-styled
aristocrat,” “he was not the gold dis-
coverer,” “he claimed higher education,”
“his life played out a monstrous lie and
fraud,” “Strzelecki created and lived a
lie.”
I am just wondering what will be the
reaction abroad to all this nonsense :
insulting not only to the memory of the
explorer, but also to Australian historical
knowledge.
The alleged “hero - worship” of
Strzelecki by Poles in Australia seems
to me to be just a myth created by Miss
Heney. The thousand years’ old history
of Poland abounds with every kind of
hero and there is no need to create one
more from a man, whom I personally
regard as an outstanding explorer,
prominent scientist of his era, and person
of uncommon abilities which were
always in British service. There are
about 15 buildings in Australia owned by
Polish associations and clubs, and as far as
I know only one, in Sydney, has been
named “Sir Paul Strzelecki House.” The
contents of seven Polish periodicals,
which have been published in Aus-
tralia during the last fourteen years, are
well known to me. and much more has
been written in Australian Press about
Strzelecki than in these periodicals.
During that time 1 do not recall even
one lecture on the subject of Strzelecki,
in the numerous Polish clubs all over
Australia. Incidentally, not long ago I
found that the largest Polish library in
Melbourne has several thousand books,
but nothing on Strzelecki, and I had to
direct a student, who was interested in
the subject, to the State Library. Where
then is that official hero-worship?
The idea of creating a Strzelecki Day
(as St Patrick’s Day for the Irish, or
Pulaski Day for American Poles) was
expressed, ten years ago, by a Polish
journalist, in a private letter to me. I
mentioned it briefly in a periodical. Sub-
sequently it was not discussed by anyone.
And this constitutes a great “movement,”
a great “attempt,” which found a place,
not only in the index to Miss Heney’s
book, but also in the two closing pages.
Is it not something of an exaggeration?
LECH PASZKOWSKI
East Malvern (Victoria).
THE MIDNIGHT HORRORS
Sir,
Following Mr J. E. Graham’s letter
of March 17 (Mr Graham is the chief
Executive Officer of the Cinematograph
Exhibitors’ Association), and following
the criticism of horror films by Press and
town-councillors, I think it is about time
the public were acquainted with the
happenings at the Regent Thornbury
theatre by one who was present. For all
their cries, neither Mr Graham, nor the
newspaper sensationalists, nor the “city-
fathers,” can claim to have witnessed
the incidents. Their opinions are second-
hand.
Mr Graham denies that the police
entered “the theatre several times to
restore order.” He is correct. The police
entered only once, but there were three
constables within the theatre throughout
most of the show. Mr Graham says
“six youths who persisted in stamping
their feet were ejected by the theatre
staff,” but this does not take into con-
sideration the fact that the stamping did
not lessen. Rather it was increased in re-
sponse to the ejections. “The Screaming
Mimi” may have been a silent film for all
we knew. Finally Mr Graham concludes,
“apart from that, nothing untoward
happened.” Perhaps the continual flow
of “blue” language, and the hurling of
six-dozen rotten eggs deserves a better
summing up.
On another point, the night of “The
Screaming Mimi” and “Gigantis” was by
no means the worst. On occasions seats
have been broken, fire hoses turned i
mob-brawls have erupted, and clothing
torn from a couple of the “fairer sex”
who were by no means averse to their
treatment.
“Gigantis” was laughed at.” The fire-
monster held no terror for the “horror-
fans.” Nor did it, nor any other horror
film I have witnessed incite the riots. It
is not the content of what is shown that
is responsible for the outbursts. Rather
they are occasioned by the hours of
screening, 12 midnight to 3 a.m. Within
the theatre the audience is mainly aged
between 13-20, with no saner or more
responsible adult “check,” and outside,
at 3 a.m., the streets are empty and can
be mastered.
JOHN RITCHIE
University of Melbourne.
THE POMMIE
Sir,
“The Pommie” by Michael Searle
(Bulletin, March 24) stings me into
retaliation. “Pommie Bastards,” are we?
Is the author so convinced of his own
legitimacy?
One understands that Michael Searle
adorns a Chair for something or other
at one of Sydney’s universities or at
least part of him does. Is this puerile
rubbish the best he can do?
Racial discrimination has an ugly
sound, however lightly treated. “It isn’t
done, old boy, it isn’t done,” protests
Michael Searle and promptly does it.
Why?
(MRS) GLENICE E. DEAN
Manly (NSW).
[Michael Searle is an Englishman and a
school teacher. Ed.]
NOLAN THE MYTHMAKER
Sir,
I wish to inform you that every
reference to me contained in an article
on Nolan (Bulletin, February 10) is
entirely false.
I trust that you will do all you can
to do me justice in this matter. Several
of my friends have indicated to me that
they did not believe the references.
GEORGE BELL
Toorak (Vic.).


HOW NOT TO WIN FRIENDS
2 British think it shameful to he pro-American, virtuous to be pro-Soviet.
By MALCOLM MUGGERIDGE
Two recent television programmes
(“The Titans,” 8.8. C. Television),
for which I wrote the scripts, dealt
with the rise, first of Soviet, and then
oi American, power. The partisanship, re-
flected by the resultant widespread com-
ment, by no means always ran on ex-
pected lines. Left and Right was no sure
guide. There were cross-currents and
undertones. Anti-Americanism cut across
unti - communism, and anti - Sovietism
across anti-capitalism. There was also
the additional factor, in certain cases, of
an intense dislike of me personally, and
of views which I had expressed on other
occasions. Altogether a rather strange
brew was produced.
As for the script—l tried to write it as
a contemporary historian: to stifle any
personal partisanship I might feel, and
to ignore any personal scars of wounds
acquired through inescapable participa-
tion in a conflict whose outcome cannot
but affect one’s own residue of life, as
well as that of one’s children and chil-
dren’s children.
Before the 20th Party Congress, the
“Daily Worker’s” attitude would have
been easily predictable. They would have
skinned me alive. For maligning the great
Stalin, and suggesting that the renegade
Trotsky, and other hirelings of Facism
and Imperialism like Radek and Zinoviev,
had played their part in the triumph and
fulfilment of the Russian Revolution, I
should have been dismissed as a running-
dog, hyena, lackey of capitalism, etc.
Nowadays, things are more difficult. I was
only accused of “distorting the role of
Stalin in the years immediately following
Lenin’s death.” After all, with so many
victims of the purges already rehabili-
tated, who knows when Trotsky and the
rest of the Old Guard may find them-
selves in the clear? Those “years im-
mediately following Lenin’s death” are
steadily shrinking. Before long they may
disappear, and poor old Stalin’s corpse
be moved yet again. The last indignity
would be to bury him in consecrated
ground.
“Another odd version of history,” the
“Daily Worker” television critic con-
tinued, was my “laconic reference to the
fact that ‘after the disastrous Munich
Pact, efforts were made to bring Russia
into an anti-Nazi alliance’.” He then
goes on to repeat the familiar legend
about how Russia wanted to join Britain
and France in an alliance against the
Nazis ; how Chamberlain would not have
it, and sent Lord Strang, “a civil servant
without any powers, to Moscow.” Again,
it is interesting that the “Daily Worker”
no longer attempts to justify the Nazi-
Soviet Pact as such. That would be risky,
since Khrushchev has made the Pact part
of his indictment of Stalin. All the same,
the film sequence of Molotov being
warmly greeted by Ribbentrop in Berlin
still hurts, and other less sophisticated
communist and fellow-traveller critics
incautiously plumped for the old tirade
about how Chamberlain was trying to
turn Hitler against Russia, thereby forc-
ing Stalin to make a truce with the Nazis
in order to gain time to prepare for re-
sisting their inevitable assault. This is
communist heresy nowadays, besides
having been exploded by a great deal of
evidence such as Strang’s “Memoirs,”
and the documents from the German
Foreign Office archives relating to the
Nazi-Soviet Pact. It persists, however,
among the lower echelons of the faithful.
A letter that particularly interested me
was from a business address in West-
minster. The writer recalled the case of
Prince Mirsky, a White Russian who, in
the early ’thirties, was asked to write a
life of Lenin. By reading Lenin’s works,
“he became a supporter of the Soviet
Government, and returned (after writing
the book) to the USSR.” What a pity,
this correspondent continues, that I did
not follow Mirsky’s example instead of
being guilty of “so many mistakes, mis-
interpretations, and downright untruths
that you changed what should have been
an informative and interesting programme
into a cheap, slanderous statement :hat
could only worsen and not improve
Anglo-Soviet understanding. . . . The
sacrifices made between the wars pre-
pared the USSR for the anti-Fascist
struggle, and incidentally provided you
with the freedom to address millions
through the medium of the 8.8. C. You


repay this sacrifice, both before and dur-
ing the war, by using your talents to be-
little their efforts and sow distrust and
suspicion. Shame on you.”
As it happened, I knew Mirsky, both
in England and in the USSR. He was a
moody, intelligent, rather attractive man
who used to come and take a hot bath in
a Moscow flat I occupied for a while. I
remember him vividly, drying himself
vigorously, and rambling on in a charac-
teristically Russian way—somehow mad,
and, at the same time, almost pedantically
sensible and reasonable in the particular
points made—about, for instance, “de-
cadent” bourgeois writers like T. S. Eliot
and the Sitwells.
Stalin a Gentleman
A/Toving to the other extreme of the
political spectrum, the “New Daily’s”
television critic sourly observed: “There
was certainly nothing objective, unbiased,
or even friendly in the commentary on
the Soviet Union. . . . One wonders how
the tone will change when it comes to
narrating the American story next week.
All love and adulation, I suppose.” This
is fairly typical. Colonel Blimp today
tends to be so apoplectically anti-Ameri-
can that he takes a sympathetic, or at any
rate indulgent, view of the Soviet Union.
Khrushchev, in his wide - bottomed
trousers and wearing his medals, is a more
sympathetic, and even U, figure in
Cheltenham than a Pentagon general.
Stalin, after all, was in many ways a
gentleman of the old school. You can’t
say the same thing for Norstad. In a
similar vein, a correspondent from Mid-
dlesex took great exception to a sug-
gestion by David Floyd in the “Daily
Telegraph” that, as Marshal Tukhachev-
sky had been rehabilitated in the Krem-
lin, so perhaps I had been in Lime Grove.
It was an insult to Marshal Tukhachev-
sky, he wrote to Floyd, to mention his
name in connection with mine.
'T'HEN “The Times.” In a way, its posi-
-1 tion is as difficult as the “Worker's.”
Long past are the days when it could
keep a correspondent in Riga, and loftily
regard the Soviet Union as an outsider
among nations. Long past, too, the days
when the Third Reich looked like pro-
viding a bulwark of Christendom, and the
Editor (Dawson) labored nightly to keep
out of his columns anything that might
be displeasing to the Nazis. There came
a time, General Booth (the founder of
the Salvation Army) noted, when his
rank ceased to appear in “The Times” in
inverted commas. Then he knew he had
arrived. The Soviet Union has likewise
arrived ; but the machinery for ejecting
used images in Printing House Square,
though highly efficient and well-oiled,
cannot keep pace with the Kremlin’s.
They had only just digested Stalin on
“The Times” when Khrushchev threw
him out. They are like a man running
after a moving bus ; by the time he has
managed to clamber on, dust down his
trousers and arrange his tie, it is time
to get off again, and change into another.
Of the Russian programme, “The
Times” critic wrote that it suffered from
my excessive “Englishness,” which he
hoped would lead to its being “accepted
in this country with a slightly larger pinch
of salt than might otherwise have been
the case.”
“The Times” critic was content just to
be patronising about the American pro-
gramme—“ln the main the manner of
telling was straightforward,” and my
commentary, “as well as being less de-
liberately coat-trailing than sometimes
hitherto, was often self-effacing enough
to let the main actors in the drama speak
for themselves.” He did not, perhaps,
reflect that Russian newsreels seldom
have a soundtrack, and on the rare
occasions that they do, the language is
not English. The “Daily Worker” man
complained that the American programme
was “weighted down with dangerous
over - simplifications,” but liked “the
demonstrations of the unemployed, and
women carrying banners: ‘We refuse to
starve in the midst of plenty,’ reflected
something of the bitter class struggle of
those days.” Had I forgotten, he asked,
“the Soviet Union’s request (rejected) to
the Allies for the opening of a Second
Front, which would have ended the war
much earlier?” The picture of America
in latter years “under the ‘nocturnal
nannie’ Eisenhower, and now Kennedy”
was “incomplete.” There was “no men-
tion, for instance, of the U-2 spying
affair.” Actually, there was a mention.
Muted American Champions
Tn general, the American programme
A was received more quiescently than
the Russian one. No champions came for-
ward with anything like the zest of a
correspondent in Herts: “What a curious
mish-mash the Russian half of ‘The
Titans’ was! Magnificent pictures battling
against a commentary that took a Here-
Be-Dragons view of History. Stalin may
have been the brute you say he was, but
there’s a lot on the credit side. Omitting
Soviet achievements can only be attribu-
ted to ignorance, malice, or hysteria. I
don’t know which applies in your case.
Perhaps it’s just a ‘diseased attitude of
mind’.”
The fact is that America has few cham-
pions and those muted, whereas the Soviet
Union still has a zealous band, who
often, however, in singing its praises, use
a hymnal which the authorities have
withdrawn from circulation. Pro-Ameri-
can sentiments are considered to be
mercenary, if not shameful, and pro-
Soviet ones disinterested and virtuous.
Anti-Americanism itself fosters a pro-
Soviet attitude. The English have always
had a perverse love for anyone-who seeks
to encompass their destruction. They
despised the Germans of the Weimar
Republic and respected the Nazis. Any
Anglophil Indians or Africans were con-
sidered contemptible, whereas a Nehru,
a Kenyatta, or a Nkrumah deserves re-
spect and admiration. This often baffles
Americans, who still childishly suppose
that providing military and economic aid
is a way to make friends and influence
people. Likewise Sir Roy Welensky, a
Lithuanian Jew and former engine-
driver, who is unaware of the nuances
of the English temperament, whereby try-
ing to defend what he supposes to be
their interests can only earn their hatred
and contempt. A man I liked in the Press
Department of the Soviet Foreign Office
(subsequently, of course, shot) once re-
marked to me that the Soviet Union
owed a deep debt of gratitude to people
like the Webbs. I asked him why, think-
ing he would mention their services to
the cause of socialism, or one or other
of their works translated by Lenin. Be-
cause, he said, they'd convinced the
Soviet authorities that whatever harsh
measures they might take, and however
drastically they might alter their Line,
they could count on the continuing sup-
port and admiration of enlightened
opinion in England. It is surprising how
true this remains today. The communist
party as such may have lost much of its
more reputable intellectual support, but
Soviet addiction continues to flourish at
all social levels. American addiction, on
the other hand, in so far as it exists at
all, is furtive and lurks in the shadows.
Eaters of hot-dogs and wearers of
padded-jackets usually salve their con-
sciences by railing against American ways
and products. As do recipients of trans-
Atlantic cultural munificence. American-
ophils are always hearing the cock crow
thrice.
The “New Stateman’s” reaction to
“The Titans” was more pained than the
“Worker’s,” in the same sort of way that
it is more painful to contract venereal
disease from a romantic, than from a
purely evacuatory, attachment. Its tele-
vision critic, Clancy Sigal, compared the
Russian programme unfavorably with a
20-minute 8.8. C. Schools TV one, “Look-
ing at the USA.” It might, perhaps, have
been more journalistically appropriate to
compare this programme with mine on
America, but Sigal preferred the other
comparison ; indeed, made no reference
to the American programme at all. The
Russian programme, he wrote, “glided
off the top of history with some crisp,
clubman’s narration and some freshly dis-
covered film.” He criticised the 8.8. C.
planners for attempting “to describe the
birth and growth of the USSR” in a single
hour, and, though he was kind enough
to go on to observe that “it was good”
to have me at the 8.8. C. again, he con-
sidered that “it required a larger heart,


and a more sophisticated political head,”
than I was “prepared to display, to do
the impossible in 60 minutes.” “There
filtered through,” he continued, “an
abiding sense of affront that the Revolu-
tion should have happened. Little or no
mention was made of the needs and
hunger of the Russian people, the per-
sonal variety of the early Red leaders,
the crisis of the World order. The basic
film image was of bloody world-wide
riots irrationally sparked by primeval
eruptions from inside Russia. . . . The
mistake of this efficient, superficial
documentary was to assume that what
happened was planned.”
Doom-ridden
Tn trying to draw attention to some of
the ideological implications in the
diverse reactions to these programmes, I
have left out of account the many Press
notices and letters which were merely
kind and appreciative. Even in their case,
however, the mark of Cain was usually
apparent. They tended to like the Russian
programme although it was harsh on the
Soviet regime, or the American one
because it was properly critical. And,
of course, occasionally vice versa. To
me one of the most congenial notices
was Robert Kemp’s in the “Glasgow
Herald,” not so much because it was
flatteringly appreciative as because it
conveyed a grasp of precisely what I
had been trying to say:
“Where the USSR allowed him to ex-
pound his views on the rise of an intrigu-
ing and tyrannous oligarchy, the USA
gave him an opportunity to review the
horribly empty words, shallow vote-
catching judgments, and ‘knavish tricks’
of democratic politicians, with no ironical
score missed, but at the same time respect
for both Woodrow Wilson and Franklin
D. Roosevelt. By the time he reached
his climax in the ‘tragic occasion’ of
Yalta when ‘Stalin looked after the
power, leaving Roosevelt and Churchill
to look after the principles—alas, they
had none,’ his narrative had acquired a
majestic but doom-ridden flow. As he
speculated on the lost moment when the
USA might have drawn the frontiers, but
left it to Stalin, most viewers must have
asked themselves if mankind is fated to
be for ever ground between the tyrants
and the men of goodwill, who seem so
prone to lose the place at the final hour.”
the letters I received the one which
me most because it was so
patently sincere and truthful came from
Burnley, and ran as follows:
“I viewed in to ‘The Titans’ documentary,
narrate.', by you, on the rise of Soviet
power in Russia. Asa young communist
(18 years) I have comments on it. In the
beginning Russia was one of the only
communist countries, and naturally it
was a struggle with the capitalist coun-
tries. They had to watch out for spies and
aggressors as they were absolutely sur-
rounded by the imperialists, who were
trying to smash the regime up and prove
it wrong. As for your definition of Stalin,
that he was a monster, well, he may have
been illiterate, but he kept the Red Flag
flying. I am not going to say he was out
for the workers, but I shall not denounce
him. If I did that I would not belong to
the communist party. Well, to be quite
candid, I’m really not experienced enough
to say. But I know other things. It gives
me great joy to think there is a com-
munist State, and I would feel 100 per
cent, free if I could reap my own harvest,
of course meaning be master of my own
destiny. I listen in to the English Radio
Moscow, and it's just wonderful, the
world the Russians are building. No
capitalists to rob the workers of their
rights, and they want no war. The wall
they have built is justified. It’s the West
that are responsible for this division —
the oppressors, Macmillan and co. If all
working folk were united there would be
no need for a wall. I was only discussing
you with another communist (who has
been in the party fifteen years) tonight.
The general opinion of you is that you
are all out for yourself and your rwn
promotion, although I believe that you
were once in the communist party. Any-
way, there’s one point of view I’m sure
you will share with me, as I think you
are rather anti-communist. No War
Over Berlin. Ban the Bomb. I do hope
you will find time to answer me as your
(no sarcasm) reply will be welcomed. As
I said before, I'm not experienced enough
in politics, and I do respect my cultural
elders. ...”
This is the answer I sent:
“T was very touched by your letter.
Please believe me when I say that
my intention was to bring out, not sup-
press, the precariousness and danger of
the Soviet Union’s position in the early
days of the Revolution. Nor did I in-
tend to portray Stalin as a monster In
fact, I still consider him to have been, in
many respects, the most remarkable
figure of our time. What I tried to show,
and what seems to me to be true, is that
Stalin succumbed to the lure of power,
and that he turned Russia back from the
revolutionary course laid down by Lenin
into the traditional Pan-slavism of
Russian imperialism. This made it
necessary for him to malign and kill most
of those who had been Lenin’s associates
in making the Revolution. It would be
an over-simplification, but not without
some truth, to say that he was to the
Russian Revolution what Buonaparte
was to the French Revolution. Now he
has been condemned by his successors,
in my opinion, excessively History will,
in time, redress the balance.
“As for my own personal position, it
is true that, as a young man working on
t'he ‘Manchester Guardian,’ I drew near to
the communist position, without, as it
happens, ever being a party member. I
thought then, and still think, that our
way of life is foundering. Dry rot has
got into the structure, and will bring it
down. The Soviet Union seemed to
represent an alternative, and 1 went there
as a journalist for the inside of a year
in 1932-33. This experience convinced
me that I could never, under any cir-
cumstances, accept an imposed ortho-
doxy, or persuade myself, or try to per-
suade others, that intolerance, terrorism,
and the monotonous adulation of a party,
its ideology and its leadership, were
essential to social salvation. I realised
that, for me at any rate, freedom was a
condition of life —freedom to think what
I like, say what I like, read what I like,
make what jokes I like, and form such
judgments as my own poor wits, freely
exercised, may provide. This is how I
have tried to live, and how I propose to
go on trying to live to the end, even
though the power maniacs who conduct
the world’s affairs should succeed in
making that end sudden and catastrophic.
If such an attitude is being out for my-
self and my own promotion, then what
your comrades said about me is true.
As for war over Berlin and the Bomb,
like every sane human being who con-
siders, as I do, that the experience of
living on this earth is, with all its pain and
disappointment, infinitely worthwhile, of
course I want no war over Berlin, and
shudder when nuclear weapons are tested
and accumulated, because I know that
this means they may sometime be used.
On the other hand, I am as doubtful
about the efficacy of following the uni-
lateralists and their associates as I was,
before the 1939-45 War, about following
Bertrand Russell, who in those days ad-
vocated receiving the Nazis like tourists,
and loading them with kindness, if they
chanced to invade us. I detest walls as
such, whether of prisons or societies —
whatever impedes the free choice of in-
dividuals to live where they will and how
they will. Doctrines of exclusivity, like
Apartheid, or our class system, or the
Indian caste system, are all, to me, ab-
horrent. So are the frontiers of com-
munist countries, with their barbed wire,
and watch-towers, and prowling sentries.
It was nice of you to want my views,
but, please, in heeding them, or
otherwise, take no account of my
being, as you kindly, but fallaciously,
put it, your ‘cultural elder.’ I have little
regard for mine ; for the Herbert Reads,
T. S. Eliots, Arnold Toynbees, and other
pundits and mandarins, and should hate
to be included in their company. . . .”
[Reprinted from “Encounter,” London]


Science at Work
THE FACTS ABOUT LUNG CANCER
Wanted: Australian Smokers' Survey
FROM OUR SCIENCE CORRESPONDENT
There is no doubt that the recent
British report on “Smoking and
Health” by the Royal College of
Physicians contains a grave warn-
ing on the health dangers of cigarette
smoking. It was quite appropriate there-
fore for the Federal Minister for Health,
Senator H. W. Wade, to urge in Parlia-
ment last week that “adequately and
properly explained information on this
matter be made available to young people
in order that they be well informed on
the risks involved before they start
smoking.” But in order to provide this
information to Australians accurate
figures should be determined about the
general smoking risks in this country.
The British report is careful to draw
attention to the fact that its statistics are
based on surveys made in Britain, and
that its figures differ materially from those
determined in other countries. In fact,
the British report says that Britain has
the highest smoking risk figures yet pro-
duced in the world.
Analysis of the British figures shows
that non-smokers live about six years
longer than smokers on the average. The
figures indicate that a healthy non-smoker
of 35 has a 50 per cent, chance of reach-
ing 75 ; that, similarly, a light smoker
(up to 25 cigarettes a day) has a 50 per
cent, chance of reaching 70 ; and that a
heavy smoker (over 25 a day) has a 50
per cent, chance of reaching 68. There-
fore, taking into consideration all causes
of death, a heavy smoker’s average life
expectancy is two years shorter than a
light smoker’s, and seven years shorter
than a non-smoker’s.
It must be emphasised that these figures
take into account all causes of death, the
major of these being heart disease. The
Royal College of Physicians stresses in
its report that “it is unlikely that all the
excess deaths among smokers are due to
smoking. They may in part be due to
other differences between smokers and
non-smokers which will not be affected
by adopting or discontinuing the habit.”
This means that a heavy smoker may
be a heavy smoker because of nervous
tension, anxiety, overwork, etc., which
factors in themselves may be responsible
for an early heart attack, perhaps irre-
spective of his smoking habits. There is,
however, one factor which, according to
the report, is directly attributable to
smoking—lung cancer. Broadly speaking
the report shows two important points:
that lung cancer is a negligible cause of
death among non-smokers ; and that one
of every 15 British smokers is likely to
die of lung cancer before reaching 75.
The report shows that of every 1000
light smokers (less than 25 cigarettes a
day) in good health at 35: hardly one
is likely to die of lung cancer before
reaching 45 ; about five are likely to die
from lung cancer between 45 and 55 ;
some six to 20 (depending on the number
of cigarettes they smoke per day) are
likely to die from lung cancer between
55 and 65 ; and about 30 to 50 are likely
to die between 65 and 75.
All told, therefore, some 4% to 7% of
light smokers can expect to die of lung
cancer before 75 —most of these after 55.
Looking at 1000 heavy smokers (over
25 a day) in good health at 35, the re-
port’s figures show that: one is likely
to die of lung cancer before reaching 45;
six are likely to die between 45 and 55;
45 between 55 and 65 ; and 60 between
65 and 75.
Thus, again considering lung cancer
alone about 11% of heavy smokers can
expect to die from lung cancer before
reaching 75, again mostly after the age
of 55.
Tt is clear from the report that similar
statistics in other countries need not
correspond to the British figures. The
report actually compares its figures with
US figures which are notably lower.
Comparing British and US smokers in
the same age groups the report shows
that for every degree of smoker, from
very light to heavy, the lung cancer risk
is markedly less in the United States.
In the heavy smoker category, for
example, the US lung cancer risk is only
half of that in Britain. Therefore, in the
US only some 5% of heavy smokers can
expect to die from lung cancer before
reaching 75, compared to Britain’s 10%
who smokes 40 cigarettes a day is taking
to 11%. The US smoker, for example,
the same risk as a smoker in England
smoking a little less than 20 a day.
The British report says that the higher
British rate may be due to the British
habit of smoking cigarettes to a shorter
stub length than the Americans, and to
the greater exposure of British people to
air polluted by domestic and industrial
smoke (smog).
There are, however, many anomalies
which the report mentions but does not
explain. One is that the death rate from
lung cancer in Finland is the second-
highest in Europe and only slightly less
than in Britain, although Finland’s popu-
lation is largely rural and there appears
to be little air pollution.
On the other hand, Finland’s neigh-
bor, Norway, appears to have an excep-
tionally low lung cancer death rate —
significantly lower even than that of the
US Low rates also occur in Japan
where the vast majority of smokers
smoke cigarettes to the shortest possible
stubs ; and the white population of South
Africa also has a much lower lung cancer
death rate than would be expected from
its cigarette consumption.
Other interesting observations made by
the British report are that immigrants to
South Africa and New Zealand from
Britain have higher rates of lung cancer
than native-born people. Similarly, there
is evidence in the United States that im-
migrants from Norway have a lower, and
immigrants from Britain a higher, lung
cancer death rate for the same level of
smoking than native-born Americans ;
the rates of the immigrants are inter-
mediate between those for their countries
of origin and destination.
One reasonable explanation that pre-
sents itself is that the lung cancer risk
may vary with the different tobaccos
used in different countries. For it is a
fact that if a smoker gives up smoking
he still retains a portion of the lung
cancer risk accumulated during his period
of smoking. A heavy smoker, for ex-
ample, who gives up smoking after 35,
retains for the rest of his life about one-
half the lung cancer risk he would have
run had he continued smoking.
All this illustrates how important it is
for each country to determine its own
particular smoking risks, and how im-
portant it therefore is for Australia to
produce smoking-and-health figures of
its own as soon as possible.


LYSAGHT GRAIN AUGER
fills your silos cheaper
than ever before
I /ft
teg
Hi
m
ilm
N?«
S3SS-;
%0
sss
w
1
1111
WMM.yw^wtyw.i. l »l. w.«»)w ;
I
mm
H
mm>
;
ii;
;:iwaa
X -J
*ss
ii!
- 4S
wjmwm
_______
«■ 1
It will pay you immediate and lasting dividends to investigate this
new Auger, especially developed for use with Lysaght Silos. With
oats particularly, the Auger is faster and more economical than bag
handling. Operates by flat belt drive from tractor and the
tractor is very easily positioned. Easily assembled ! Designed to
fill a Silo battery from one position.
AUGER SELECTION TABLE
3 POPULAR SIZES
' : VJ ■ .
21 FT. . ....... . £97
26 FT. . £lO9
31 FT . . £ll6
(f.C.R. NEWCASTLE)
SUPPLIED COMPLETE WITH 8 BUSHEL
BUILT-IN HOPPER
FEATURES
• Suits all Lysaght Silos in the 1,200 b.
to 3,700 b. range.
•No maintenance all bearings
sealed.
• Flat Belt drive—pulley supplied.
• Complete ready for attachment of
belt guide rollers for belt pro-
vided.
• Designed to fill Silo from centre of
roof—enabling maximum capacity
to be obtained.
• Exceptionally easy to assemble and
erect.
• Chute tubes are telescopic; cleaning
doors provided in hopper.
ORB
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
Offices in Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Fremantle


* cy
KM
THE JAPANESE BUDGET
NO IMMEDIATE NEED FOR ALARM
'T'here are two important things to be
A kept in mind when evaluating the
possible effects of the new Japanese
Budget, which calls for an overall reduc-
tion in imports of about £A2OOm. in the
fiscal year commencing April 1, 1962.
Firstly, the proposed slash in Japanese
imports is a general attempt to overcome
the mounting balance-of-payments deficit,
and is in no way specifically directed
against Australia. There is no specific
plan to reduce Japanese wool purchases
which amounted to £73.6m. (up £l2m.) in
the eight months to February last (all
exports to Japan for the same
period totalled £125. lm.). Secondly,
the Japanese Government intends to con-
tinue its gradual import liberalisation.
This means there is little likelihood of
opposition to Australia’s efforts to
diversify her trade with Japan.
Japanese Budget normally comes up
for review in June —and again in
August—and substantial modifications
may then be expected, if Japan’s interna-
tional payments position shows improve-
ment. There are also special extra-
budgetary import allocations, which may
be recommended by the Economic Plan-
ning Agency. Although this body does
not have direct executive authority its re-
commendations carry considerable influ-
ence and are usually put into effect by the
appropriate Ministries. A good example
is the Japanese Agriculture and Forestry
Ministry’s decision for “urgent imports”
of 400 tons of butter and 3000 tons of
skimmed powdered milk last February, to
help force down prices of some dairy
products which had soared in Japan due
to a temporary shortage in supply.
A lthough full details of the Japanese
Budget are not yet available it seems
that the main reason for the substantial
import reductions is an attempt to
restrict investment in imported machinery
by firms which have not been able to
justify their overseas spending on capital
goods by adequate export sales. A fair
proportion of their output, initially
intended for export purposes, has found
its way onto the domestic market causing
some oversupply. At the same time
heavy demands made by these firms on
skilled labor had pushed up labor costs
and accentuated inflationary tendencies,
which the Japanese Government quite
rightly considers a major threat to
balanced economic expansion. Japan’s
very high economic growth rate is begin-
ning to produce what the Japanese call
“an overheated economy”. By limiting
imports of capital machinery and reducing
the intake of raw materials, in addition
to domestic fiscal and monetary curbs, it
is hoped to slow down this year’s growth
rate without too much dislocation.
It seems unlikely that Australian wool
sales will be drastically affected, but
occasional reductions in Japanese wool-
buying cannot, at this stage, be altogether
ruled out. This largely depends on the
wool stocks carried by Japanese textile
mills and their overall export prospects —
particularly in the United States and
South-east Asia. So far there has been
no indication of any slackening in
Japanese woolbuying, which recently
was rather spirited. But if the US will
attempt to hold down Japanese imports,
because of its own balance-of-payments
difficulties, Australia could be indirectly
affected. Japan is also worried about the
future of its exports to the European
Common Market area as successive
reductions of tariffs within the Com-
munity and its unchanged protection
barriers against the rest of the world —
with the notable exception of the United
States —could reduce the competitiveness
of Japanese products.
T'he fact that Japan is not deferring its
A import liberalisation programme—
which provides for putting some 980
items (90 p.c.) on the free imports list
by October, 1962 —is an encouraging
indication that balance-of-payments
difficulties reflected in the new Japanese
Budget are not considered insurmount-
able. There are two important snags as
far as Australia is concerned: the Japan-
ese Government has decided to exclude
coal, rice, wheat and sugar from its free
imports list. And, Japan will not extend
“full benefits of the scheduled import
liberalisation to those countries which
discriminate against Japanese imports.”
This, unfortunately, includes Australia,
which still makes some use of the GATT
“escape clause”.
A steady change in the composition of
Japanese exports to Australia, with
an increasing bias towards heavy and
medium capital equipment (for example
machine tools), could help solve this
problem. And unless some unexpected
developments cause further sharp
deterioration in Tokyo’s balance-of-pay-
ments there is no immediate cause for
alarm over the new Japanese Budget.
EUGENE BAJKOWSKI
INDEX
The Japanese Budget .. .. 36
Marketing .. .. .. 37
Overseas Trade ~ .. 37
West German Sharemarket .. 38
Economics Anonymous .. 39
Manhunt for Executives .. 40
Packaged Deals in Building ~ 41
Company Reviews:
H. G. Palmer Ltd .. .. 42
Dodds Consolidated Indus-
tries Ltd .. .. .. 43
A.E.I. Ltd 46
Company Notes . . .. 47
One to Buy ~ .. .. 48
Sharemarket Summary .. 49
Oil 50
Speculator’s Diary .. .. 52
Statistics .. .. 37, 53
Man on the Land—
Goats, Farm Productivity,
Butter Powder .. .. 53


EXCHANGE RATES (T/T)
AUSTRALIA ON
LONDON
£A to £st'g 100
NEW ZEALAND
£A to £NZ 100
USA
$1 to £AI
BELGIUM
Francs to £AI ..
FRANCE
New Francs to £AI
.. 125
.. 124
.. 2.2523
.. 112.78
.. 11.079
NEW CAPITAL EXPENDITURE BY INDUSTRY GROUPS
Extracting-, refining, founding .. .. 1
Engineering . . . . . . .. • • J-
Vehicles . . • • • • • • • • j
I> rH CO
CO CO "•+
IM n H
REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE EXPENDITURE BY TYPE OF ASSET
f Actual Expenditure & Million
Buildings and structures .. .. .. 27.8 27.9 14.5 13.4
Other capital equipment .. .. .. 105.5 178.9 89.3 91.8
193.3 206.8 103.8 105.2
MARKETING
CHEMISTS JACK UP ON IPANA
HThe 4800 chemists in the Federal Phar-
maceutical Guild have jacked up on
the Bristol-Myers Co., manufacturer of
Ipana toothpaste, because it will no
longer restrict the sales outlets of Ipana
to chemists’ shops alone. The Guild has
decided to withdraw all aid in the market-
ing of Ipana, stop the display of show
cards and promotional displays, and
generally to discourage sales.
Bristol-Myers has accepted the challenge
and, in retaliation, has instituted one of
the most dynamic sales promotion cam-
paigns in many years. It is one of the most
significant marketing developments in the
history of the pharmaceutical industry,
and the results are being awaited with
great interest in advertising and market-
ing circles.
For 50 years, Bristol-Myers had been
marketing most of its products only
through pharmacists. These products
include the Ingram range of shaving
creams, some deodorants and hair lotions,
and Ipana in four ranges regular,
chlorophyll, fluoride and toothpowder.
These hold a very large slice of the
market.
Ever since the start of its operations
in Australia 50 years ago, the Bristol-
Myers Laboratories had an agreement
with the Pharmaceutical Guild to sell
only through chemists. The agreement
was renewed every five years until two
years ago, when a proviso was inserted
that it should be reviewed in another
two years. The reason was a big fall in
the sales of toothpastes through chemists.
Whereas, once chemists sold about 40 p.c.
of all toothpastes in Australia, the figure
has dropped to about 30 p.c. The spread-
ing influence of chain stores and super-
markets is said to be the cause.
The break came, too, at a most oppor-
tune moment, when the NSW Govern-
ment changed certain provisions in the
Poisons Act enabling Ipana Fluoride to
be sold anywhere.
It will be interesting to see the effect
of Bristol-Myers’ action on the policies
of other marketers of non-ethical pro-
ducts —Parke Davis, Nyal, Sterling and
Nicholas—who still restrict the sale of
some, if not all, of their lines to chemists’
counters.
T>ristol-Myers has just launched a
throughout Australia aimed
at capturing a much larger share of the
market than it already holds. Ipana,
with about 20 p.c. of the toothpaste
market, is second only to Colgate-Palm-
olive Dental Cream (50 p.c.), but Ipana’s
market has hitherto been restricted t<~ the
4800 chemists, while Colgate has had in
addition somewhere between 25,000 and
30,000 other outlets. Now the battle be-
tween Bristol-Myers and Colgates will be
really on.
Bristol-Myers has also started a £30,000
consumer contest, the “biggest ever” in
Australia.
The Pharmaceutical Guild’s vehement
reaction to Bristol-Myers’ “cutting the
painter” has been strongly criticised in
business circles as an endeavor to wield
the big stick. The Bristol-Myers giant
is strong enough to challenge the Guild,
but what about smaller companies? The
Guild is powerful enough throughout
Australia to put any of them out of
business almost overnight.
W. M. RUTLEDGE
OVERSEAS TRADE
EXPORTS TREND
REMAINS ENCOURAGING
HThe Commonwealth Statistician’s figures
A show that the encouraging trend
in Australia's overseas trade is con-
tinuing. Wool sales are rising. Exports
of merchandise in February climbed
up by £7,217,000 to £86,297,000, com-
pared with February, 1961.
Imports in February last amounted to
£69,153,000 a solid drop of
£25,652,000 compared with February,
1961. Both exports (£86,297,000) and
imports (£69,153,000) last February were
lower than in January, 1962.
Exports of merchandise for eight
months to February. 1962, were valued
at £706,268,000 £135,957,000 higher
than in the preceding comparable
period. Imports for the same eight
months totalled £561,647,000 (down a
massive £194,082,000 compared with the
previous corresponding period). Exports
to Commonwealth countries totalled
£270,689,000, of which the United King-
dom absorbed £132,129,000. Japan was
the best foreign customer, taking
£125,151,000 of Australian goods (up
£29,727,000). Our imports from Japan
fell by more than £2om. to £30,460,000.
Sales to Communist China jumped from
£8,161,000 to £43,114,000, reflecting the
large wheat exports. There was an en-
couraging rise in exports to the United
States, which increased from £38,539,000
to £72,158,000.
Wool (excluding sheep and lamb skins
with wool on) accounted for £252,292,000
of the total £706,268,000 of merchandise
exported during the eight months to the
end of February, 1962.
Japan’s wool purchases rose in quantity
and value. Income from wool sales to
the UK remained steady. US wool pur-
chases almost doubled. The European
Common Market group substantially
increased its wool intake. Yugoslavia's
wool purchases slipped from £2,318,000
to £1,146,000 but Poland’s jumped from
£4,181,000 (16,872,0001b5.) to £6,454,000
(24,839,0001b5.).


CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on Bth March, 1950.
(ASSETS EXCEED £10,000,000.)
FUNDS MAY BE
WITHDRAWN
IN A PERSONAL
EMERGENCY
PER ANNUM
4 YEARS
INTEREST PERIOD
9% P.A 4 years
QVz% P.A._ 3 years
8% P.A 2 years
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE UNSECURED
DEPOSIT NOTES
INTEREST
PERIOD
9% P.A 3 years
BVa% P.A 2 years
8% P.A 12 months
7% P.A 8 months
Applications for debenture stock and redeemable unsecured deposit
notes accepted only on form of application attached to prospectus,
obtainable from
Principal Offices of the Bank of N.S.W.
in oil capital cities
OR
The Company's Offices:
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Floor, Empire House, Corner Wharf and
Queen Streets.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street.
NEWCASTLE: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter Street,
Newcastle West.
OR
Any Member of a Stock Exchange
Underwriting Brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melb.)
CC.130/AB
The
NORTHERN LIFE
Assurance Company of Australia Limited
(Incorporated in Canberra, Australia)
All Classes of Ordinary Life Assurance,
Superannuation and Annuity Policies Issued
HEAD OFFICE: 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone BL 5601 K. J. Hedley, General Manager
WEST GERMAN SHAREMARKET
SUSPICIONS DISAPPEARING
C'hares in public companies have never
been a really popular means of in-
vestment in Germany ; indeed, at times
they have been generally regarded with
disfavor and suspicion.
But there are indications that, with
Government encouragement and guid-
ance, the public mind is undergoing a
definite change.
Official economic policy is to help
everyone to acquire property and to
bring capitalism and labor on to more
common ground. And the Government
is convinced that the share is an instru-
ment for attaining that goal.
For that reason “people’s shares” have
been created to enable those of moderate
means to become part-owners of indus-
trial undertakings, if possible on a
permanent basis, and in such a way that
they are not dominated by a large share-
holder or a small, compact minority
group.
So far two big companies which are
entirely public enterprises have issued
these shares the Prussian Mining and
Smelting Co. (“Preussag”) and the
Volkswagen Works. Small shareholders
now have a majority interest in each.
The success of the Preussag issue was
not surprising, for it took place when
the stock exchange boom was in full
swing. But when the Volkswagen shares
came out, quotations had been going
down for months. Only later, when the
period of issue was ended, did they rise
again and reach a new peak. Neverthe-
less this issue was successful.
When issuing the shares, the Volks-
wagen Works made it a condition that
they could be subscribed for only by
people whose taxable annual income did
not exceed a certain amount.
Although each share gives its owner
a vote in the general meeting, nobody
can have more votes than the equivalent
of one-ten-thousandth of the basic capital.
Only the Government is exempted from
this limitation for ten years, so that
it can exercise a stabilising influence
until the mass of the shareholders has
learned to exercise its power of super-
vision.
In this way not only was the attempt
made to help the ordinary man to
acquire property, but to make him the
real ruler of an enterprise of world rank,
and place him on a basis of equality
with the big capitalist.
Other companies owned by the
State are to follow this example. How
this newest development in German
shareholding will continue will be a
matter of interest. It would be daring
too much to prophesy anything yet!


Step out
confidently
on that
business
trip
with the G B A s
travel services behind you
Experienced officers will plan and provide complete
itineraries. They'll arrange all travel and
accommodation bookings, passports, taxation
clearances and other necessary documents. C.B.A.
Travellers’ Cheques are accepted everywhere.
Letters of credit are available, or funds can be
forwarded to our Offices or Agents throughout the
world. Our Trade Introduction Service will put you
in touch with the overseas markets which apply
directly to your business. Contact your nearest
C.B.A. Manager for full details.
m
THE COMMERCIAL BANK
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
OVER 800 OFFICES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND a LONDON
ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
11/nEN wiH the Australian trading
banks be permitted to engage directly
in hire-purchase business?
This has worked very well, notably
through the medium of personal loans,
in the UK.
At the present juncture when there is
a crying need for a more rapid activisa-
tion of bank deposits, such a step could
help in speeding general economic
recovery. The urgency is underlined by
the continued fall in h.-p. outstandings,
which dropped another £3m. in Febru-
ary to £3Bom. Although it would
entail increasing the banks’ maximum
lending rates, there is reason to believe
that they could do this sort of con-
sumer financing cheaper than the estab-
lished hire-purchase companies. Any
permitted increase in maximum lending
rates could well be accompanied by a
reduction in interest rates to a wide
selection of other bank customers with-
out detriment to bank profits.
It is as much in the interests of the
banks to cut their rates to get an
increase in advances as it is of the
economy as a whole. Lower rates would
certainly have enticed business and
industry to take up more of the almost
embarrassing build-up of funds in the
banks over the last six months. And
for all the Government’s pump priming,
a cheapening of working capital would
make all the difference in the response
of many firms to the better prospects
for their sales.
Not only would it ease the burden of
carrying present stocks and work in
progress, but it would also encourage pro-
duction in expectation of higher turn-
overs even if this meant for a time
adding to stocks. The general effect of
reducing bank interest rates would be
towards increasing the velocity of cir-
culation at a time when ‘'substitutes for
money" are out of favor. For all its
critics, the Radcliffe Committee in the
UK was on the right track in pointing
to the velocity of circulation as being a
more cogent influence on business
activity than the quantify of money.
HThe system here is overflowing with
money at present but its velocity of
circulation is far too low.
The Radcliffe Committee coupled its
emphasis on achieving an optimum level
of liquidity in the economy as a whole
with the further thought that the authori-
ties should try to influence the "whole
structure of interest rates.” But all the
authorities here have done in the interest
rate field is to lower bond rate to 5 p.c.
ir step with the market (now the market
has pushed the prices of the long-dated
5 p.c. issues well above par). Short-
term market rates have made but little
response to this example from the bond
market.
Bank advances money comprises by
far the greater part of available short-
term finance here. But nothing has been
done by direct means to reduce bank
advances rates or, for that matter, any
lending rates in the private sector.
Unless the authorities want the
recovery to hang fire they should take
action urgently in this direction. It is
not good enough simply to urge the
economy forward by fiscal stimulants to
the neglect of interest rate policy.


M
m
S -AGPX S
brand?:;
YOUR
FAVOURITE
BRANDY
Hi
BRANDY
MANAGEMENT
MANHUNT FOR EXECUTIVES
r T'HE recent much-publicised quest for
A new executive staff by a nationally
prominent contracting company high-
lights Australian management's search
for trained minds.
It is developing into one of the greatest
manhunts for executives to fill top jobs
today, and for inevitable vacancies in
future years in our industrial history.
Seldom has a country had a greater
opportunity for able men. There are still
many ambitious ones around because
applications, in reply to this particular
company’s search, have come from all
over Australia.
Sir Desmond Lee, Headmaster of Brit-
ain’s Winchester College, when speaking
recently as the A.B.C.’s Guest of Honor,
said that all over the world an “education
explosion” is going on.
“It has come about,” he said, “by
realising more and more that today’s (and
tomorrow’s) executive and administrative
jobs just cannot be done without trained
minds.”
Australian experience is now closely
following American practice of seeking
for its executives the most promising
men from the work-bench or university
and setting up a systematic programme
of turning the brightest into admini-
strators.
To do this there is a planned process
of transfers from department to depart-
ment to provide them with the broadest
possible view of the entire operation and
away from over - specialisation. Pre-
dominantly it is aimed at condensing
experience.
For many years many young men have
been training themselves for industrial
and commercial leadership by taking an
active part in civic community service.
Such organisations as the Junior Cham-
ber of Commerce and Apex have assisted
them in this regard.
More and more young, rising execu-
tives are attending lectures on specific
subjects which they wish to apply in their
everyday jobs. Professional institutes are
also providing new “experience sharing”
exercises through an American seminar
principle.
Young executive minds are also being
stretched by courses on such subjects as
“Creative Thinking” or “Applied
Imagination.”
A nother example of how young execu-
tives are preparing themselves for
future responsibility is the annual exercise
carried out by the graduating class at the
Sydney Technical College’s School of
Management.
Each year they select a different man-
agement topic. Their latest concerns
“The Management of Small Business.”
The 200-page report was compiled by
23 members of the final-year class. Work-
ing for four months, they tackled and
analysed surveys on the four facets —
manufacturing, wholesaling, retailing and
services.
As on each previous occasion, they
concentrated on something new for Aus-
tralia and simultaneously accelerated
their own executive potential growth.
The trend for a more informed com-
munity is also apparent in the full-page
advertisementss “explaining” what the
A.B.C. radio and television stations are
doing to keep Australians well informed.
All this activity may well prompt us
to ask why there should be all this stimu-
lation to do more and better things.
In part, it is because management re-
quires more and more executives who are
capable of learning entirely new things
efficiently and quickly, and able to do
them with balanced emotions while work-
ing under pressure.
It has also come about by many in-
dustries becoming obsolete almost over-
night, and by changes in economic and
political policy, not only in this country,
but on the other side of the world.
Our educational criteria can also play
an important part, at the secondary-
school level, in preparing future execu-
tives. This point is capably presented by
Charles E. Silberman writing in “For-
tune.”
“The American need for educated
men,” he writes, “is sometimes stated in
terms of specific skills said to be in short
supply—electronic engineers or nuclear
physicists, for example.
“Educationally, this is the wrong way
to approach the problem, because it is
impossible to predict today what skills
will be needed 10 years from now.
“Nothing can be more wildly imprac-
tical, therefore —and nothing more de-
structive to the future of an individual
or a society—than an education designed
to prepare people for specific vocations
and professions or to facilitate their
‘adjustment’ to the world as it is.
“To be practical, an education now
must prepare a man for work that does
not yet exist and whose nature can't even
be imagined.
“This can only be done by teaching
people how to learn, by giving them the
kind of intellectual discipline and the
depth of understanding that will enable
them to apply man’s accumulated wis-
dom to new conditions as they arrive.”
B.H.C.
UNITED STATES
LOAN FROM ITALY
HThe US Treasury has made an agree-
ment with the Bank of Italy for a
loan of 15,625 m. lire (US $25m.). The
loan will be used to establish the position
of the US dollar on the Italian market
and help avoid fluctuations which may
arise from excess sales of dollars in
Italy.


f * >
a
£bSUE OVERSUBSCRIBED
but applications still being accepted
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
at par
6 TO 10 YEARS
SHORTER TERMS
2 YEARS
71%
per annum
3 YEARS
8*
per annum
4/5 YEARS
Bi>
per annum
TRUSTEES FOR THE DEBENTURE
STOCKHOLDERS
THE M.L.C. NOMINEES LIMITED.
Applications for Debenture Stock will be accepted
only on form of application attached to the
Prospectus, which contains interesting information
on the subject of Factoring.
Obtainable from :
• Any branch in New South Wales or Victoria of
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange in Australia
• Either office of TALCOTT FACTORS LIMITED,
188-194 George Street, Sydney
224 Queen Street, Melbourne
or from—•
BROKERS FOR THE ISSUE
J. B. WERE & SON
TFL/16/62i
BUILDING
THE PACKAGED DEAL SYSTEM
'T'he New South Wales Government has
now accepted a private company’s
plan to develop a large area in the heart
of Sydney. Valued at some £l2m. the
Australian Square project is perhaps this
country’s largest, single building pack-
aged deal, constructional project.
This prompts the question—what is
the packaged deal system, how did it
commence and where is it leading us?
It is possible that the origins of the
system were founded in Chicago, USA,
some 80 years ago, when a builder,
George Fuller, saw the need to incor-
porate management principles into con-
struction techniques.
An architejt by training, George
Fuller established a major construction
company which, while specialising in
building skyscrapers all over the Ameri-
can continent, was still versatile enough to
have designed and developed the humble
war-time “Quonset” hut.
In Australia the success of similar
principles is the fruit of business
resiliency and a willingness to change
methods of operations in accordance with
advances in building technology and a
planned diversification of the assignments
the building industry is willing to tackle.
In this country many find that they
cannot afford the delays and creeping
costs which always seem to be associated
with building a home privately. For this
reason packaged building techniques are
now becoming more available in this field.
They are designed to handle quickly and
expeditiously the problems of raising
finance, engaging an architect, submitting
plans to the respective councils, handling
legal fees and carrying out the actual
construction in one business transaction.
The overall objective is to reduce costs
which are consistent with good design
and finish.
npo provide these services such a firm
A requires considerable financial and
material resources. It aims at having a
staff which, while being competent by
today’s standards, is also sufficiently
flexible to take advantage of every
advanced construction technique and
managerial requirement. It also aims at
being able to competently handle its own
staff and sub-contractors, use the latest
building materials and acquire the
necessary machinery to help reduce con-
struction time. It tries to have adequate
financial resources to take best advantage
of discounts and not need to finance
the next job from the proceeds of the
preceding one.
To their credit Australian developers
using the packaged deal system have
ment systems, for example.
already spearheaded several building
industry advancements —the NSW Strata
Title Bill and incentive production pay-
It has taken a builder, Charles Vandyke,
of the Sydney suburb of Strathfield, to
say the latest word about the architect’s
concern at the developer’s increasing
;fficiency: “Until such time as the
architect allies himself with all other
modern industries and uses scientific
management and its principles as his
guide, and treats his profession as an
exact science garnished with aesthetics,
there will be no architectural answer to
the packaged dealer.”
B. H. CLAPCOTT


COMPANY REVIEWS AND MOTES
H. G. PALMER CONSOLIDATED LTD
SOLID GROWTH IN KEEN FIELD
rpHE H. G. Palmer organisation has
expanded to such an extent that it
is Australia’s largest radio, television and
electrical appliance retailer. The com-
pany opened seven additional retail
showrooms (five in NSW and two in Vic-
toria), in the year to June, 1961. Another
nine will be opened shortly. This will
give the company retailing outlets in
85 areas.
Development in the term to June 30
last was slow but the pace picked up in
the next half-year. Last week the
directors reported that “turnover for the
six months ended December 31, 1961. was
a record.” Consolidated net profit before
tax was said to have risen by £8824 to
£384,260. Turnover and earnings for the
quarter ended March 31, 1962, “are
satisfactory.”
H. G. Palmer finances its own credit
trading. This important section of the
business is being developed with ideas of
expanding into other directions.
H. G. Palmer (Consolidated) Ltd was
incorporated in NSW in 1949 to acquire
the controlling interest in H. G. Palmer
Pty Ltd, H. G. Palmer (Wollongong) Pty
Ltd, H. G. Palmer Finance Pty Ltd,
and Remlap Electrics Pty Ltd.
Purchase consideration payable by
H. G. Palmer (Consolidated) Ltd was
£66,936 of which £13,435 was paid
at time of the acquisition. The balance
was to remain unpaid for ten years if
so desired by the company.
The holding company, H. G. Palmer
(Consolidated) Ltd, owns the whole of
the ordinary capital in eleven wholly-
owned subsidiaries, namely: H. G.
Palmer Pty Ltd, H. G. Palmer (Wollon-
gong) Pty Ltd, H. G. Palmer Finance
Pty Ltd, H. G. Palmer (Wholesale)
Pty Ltd, Music Masters Pty Ltd
(Incorp. in Queensland), H. G. Palmer
(Auburn) Finance Pty Ltd, H. G.
Palmer Services Pty Ltd, Remlap
Electrics Pty Ltd, Manly Electric &
Radio Co. Pty Ltd, Music Masters Pty
Ltd. (Incorp. in A.C.T.), and H. G.
Palmer (Victoria) Pty Ltd (Incorporated
in Victoria).
The group operates through the main
trading subsidiaries, H. G. Palmer Pty
Ltd and Music Masters Pty Ltd (In-
corp. in Queensland), retailers of TV,
radio and electrical appliances through-
out the Commonwealth.
H. G. Palmer’s Service Division is
Undoubtedly the largest in Australia. It
controls over 400 patrol vans by two-
way radio. With the opening of new
transmitting areas in country districts
its very profitable television service
should grow, but competition in this field
is strong.
Retailing of TV sets has lost its boom
effect, the trend being very similar to
earlier trends in radios, refrigerators,
washing machines and other appliances.
The company is now obtaining its turn-
over from a very wide range of
merchandise.
The company is a large advertiser in
all media, spending in excess of
£500,000 a year in sales promotion
activities.
The vigorous sales policy was again re-
flected by the higher turnover and profits
for the year ended June 30, 1961. Con-
solidated net profit increased by £ 12,511
to £425,757 after higher depreciation
at £151,241 (up £26,647) and pro-
viding £305,076 for taxation (up
£15,110):- —
Consolidated Figures?.
f— —Dividends ,
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 10 p.c. 12§ p.c. serves. serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1959. .301,494 51,750 84,782 164,962 820,174
Share premium, £9OOl .. .. 829,175
Asset revaluation, £655,969 .. 1,485,144
Capital profit, £2198 .. .. 1,487,342
Tax underprovided, £11,486 .. 1,475,856
1960. .413,246 74,667 123,979 214,600 1,690,456
Capital profit, £284 .. .. 1,690,740
Tax underprovided, £16,473 .. 1,674,267
Transfer long-service leave, £4,000.. 1.670,267
1961. .425,757 83,000 124,260 215.497 1,888,764
* Subject to intangibles, £511,406 at 30/6/61.
This was equal to 34.48 p.c. on average
ordinary capital (after deducting the 10
p.c. preference dividend charge of
£83,000) compared with 34.16 p.c. in
1960, 36.82 p.c. in 1959 and 50.73 p.c.
in 1958. The steady 12i p.c. ordinary
dividend rate absorbed £124,260,
which is well covered.
Reserves benefited by £198,024 after
adding £284 capital profit and deduct-
ing £16,473 under provision for taxa-
tion for the year ended June 30, 1960,
and transferring £4OOO to provision for
long service leave. Intangibles amounted
to £511,406.
Paid capital remained steady at
£1,824,082. Unsecured loans were
slightly higher at £23,700, while out-
side interest at £2688 dropped by
£15,397 since 1959. However, deben-
tures and fixed deposit notes were
£3,642,777 higher at £16,512,412,
after the company’s debenture issue
during the year closed oversubscribed.
Mortgage was higher at £.370,491 (up
£26,794). Sundry creditors were lower
at £645,507. Hire purchase creditors
were also lower at £5412 (down
£34,268):
Consolidated Figures.
Gapital— 1959. 1960. 1961.
Pref. .. £580,000 £830,000 £830,000
Ord. . . 989,583 994,082 994,082
Reserves .. 820,174 1,690,456 1,888,764
Outside interests 16,660 2,687 2,688
Secured loans. . 3,393,961 3,000,015 2,750,277
Unsecured loans 18,085 22,473 23,700
Fixed-deposit
notes .. 7,411,836 12,869,635 16,512,412
Mortgages .. 279,052 343,697 370,491
Sundry creditors 335,135 708,775 645,507
H.-p. creditors 80,121 39,680 5,412
Long-service
leave . . —•— 4,000
Tax provision 289,840 290,237 389,368
Final div. . . 75,387 103,630 103,630
£14,289,834 £20,895,367 £24,520,331
Land, buildings,
plant . . 2,779,574 4,461,523 4,896,635
Premises
advances . . 65,409 67,967 79,685
Mortgage loans 38,542 52,686 45,176
Shares in co . . 85,550 85,550 85,550
Stock . . 1,822,571 2,367,917 2,366,322
T.-p’s and
debtors .. 8,533,320 12,291,095 16,249,830
Cash, etc. . . 469,730 1,059,199 285,727
Intangibles . . 495,132 509,430 511,406
£14,289,834 £20,895,307 £24,520,331
The company's decision to purchase
selected freehold properties has proved
profitable. Freeholds acquired during
the early development of suburban shop-
ping quickly increased in value. Security
of tenure and the ability to develop a
site are other advantages of owning
one's own property.
Land, buildings, leasehold property
and other fixed assets increased by
£435,112 to £4,896,635 after higher
depreciation charge. Premises advances
increased by £11,718 to £79,685 after
obtaining advances on the St Ives
property. Mortgage loans were lower
and investment in shares remained steady
at £85,550. Stock remained practically
unchanged.
The amount outstanding on time pay-
ments and hire-purchase agreements and
sundry debtors was much higher than in
the previous year at £16,249,830 (up
£3,958,735). Cash at bank and prepay-
ments fell by £773,472 to £285,727.
Net tangible asset backing of the ss.
ords was 11s. lid., while that of the
20s. preference shares was 775. 2d.
H. G. Palmer’s pattern of its
financing has been through debenture,
cash and bonus issues largely governed
by trust deed limits on the company’s
borrowing.
A further issue of £500,000 debentures,
with currencies ranging from “at call” to
20 years, has just been announced.
This is a fast moving stock—at the
last sale in Sydney the ss. ords changed
hands at 16s. 9d. yielding 3.7 p.c. on
the 12i p.c. dividend rate. The 20s.
prefs fetched 245. yielding 8.3 p.c. on
the 10 p.c. dividend rate.


rr
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS, £893,311.
TANGIBLE ASSETS. £3.075.026.
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
WITH RIGHT OF RECALL
ON 30 DAYS’ NOTICE
3 months . . . . sVi> M .
6 months .... 6% p.a.
9 months .... 6 V 2% p.a.
12 months .... 7% p.a.
1 8 months .... p.a.
• FIXED DEPOSITS
2 years 8% p.a.
3 years p.a.
AND OVER
APPLICATIONS must be made
on ijie form enclosed with the
prosfj'ctus, which is obtainable
from
Members of the Stock Exchange
ANY BRANCH OF A.N.Z. BANK
The Registered Office of the Com-
pany, William & Crown Sts.,
Sydney. Telephone FA 0322.
Financing world-
famous products
distributed by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies.
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
in Queensland
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
in Queensland
LISTER
Engines
GROUP SALES
YEAR ENDED
30-6-61
£12,857,865
MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 1/11/61, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 14/4
1578QH
DODDS CONSOLIDATED INDUSTRIES LTD
INTERIM DIVIDEND PRUNED
fjpHE original business of Dodds Con-
solidated Industries Ltd was begun
in Melbourne in 1946. The present hold-
ing company was formed in 1955 as
Riley Dodds Holdings Ltd, and the
name of the concern was changed to its
present style in 1960.
The company specialises in large-scale
steam generating plant, and has a
licensing arrangement with Riley Stoker
Corp. of the US to make Riley
design steam generating plant and firing
equipment in Australasia.
It handles the design, supervision, con-
struction and assembly of the plant.
Its customers are various Govern-
mental electrical authorities and big
industrial undertakings.
The chief operating subsidiary is Riley
Dodds Aust. Pty Ltd, which in the last
annual report for the year ended June 30,
1961, was reported to be tendering for
a considerable volume of boiler con-
struction work.
In the financial year under review
directors reported that profitwise trading
in 1960-61 was not as good as in 1959-
60, because relatively less progress pro-
fits had been brought into account from
current boiler contracts. This fluctuat-
ing factor is a feature of long-term en-
gineering contracts.
In the 1960 accounts, directors ex-
plained that the substantial increase in
the unit capacity of present-day boiler
units means that opportunities to secure
contracts have become less frequent.
At the last four annual meetings in
October-November directors have given
the value of group contracts in hand as
£5 million in 1958, £7 million in 1959,
£4.5 million in 1960 and £6.2 million in
1961.
One contract secured during the 1960-
61 year was for the major portion of the
MUJA power station to be supplied and
erected for the S.E.C. of Western
Australia.
The subsidiaries Riley Dodds Construc-
tion Co. Pty Ltd, Riley Dodds Instru-
mentation Pty Ltd, R.D.A. Workshops
Pty Ltd and Lenix Pty Ltd all traded
profitably during the year under review.
Other operating subsidiaries are
National Heating Pty Ltd (high tempera-
ture gas and oil furnaces), Industrial
Electric Pty Ltd (high temperature elec-
tric furnaces), Erection Engineers Pty
Ltd (contractors for industrial plant and
steel structures), Engineering Structures
Pty Ltd (steel fabricators and sheet
metal workers) and Sylon Pty Ltd (sliding
door gear).
Alfred Snashall Pty Ltd, acquired in
February 1958 for cash, is the sole Aus-
tralian representative for the Leeds and
Northrup Co. of USA and its associated
company, Integra, Leeds and Northrup
Ltd of the UK.
Leeds and Northrup instruments are
assembled at the Mascot factory. Alfred
Snashall and the subsidiary Lenix Ser-
vices Pty Ltd traded very satisfactorily.
Lenix Services is the new name for
Water Supply Engineering Pty Ltd,
which was the manufacturing unit for
Snashall. It has been reorganised and
now makes and distributes a full range
of Lenix hoisting equipment.
Mechanical Handling Ltd, a specialist
in the production of mechanical handling
equipment and systems, was acquired


Now open
THE AUSTRALIAN
GAS LIGHT COMPANY
announces the issue of
REGISTERED DEBENTURE LOAN
£ 1,000,000
5®% for five years 6®% for ten years
08% for fifteen years 6*% for twenty five years
Your investment in the A.G.L. is backed by assets of £33,000,000,
125 years of sound development and successful trading. Trustee
for the Debenture Holders is the Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited). The period of the Loan is for 5, 10, 15 or 25 years and
interest is paid twice yearly on April 15 and October 15. Deben-
tures may be sold through any stock exchange at any time at the
current market value.
An approved investment for the special taxation concessions
applicable to life assurance and superannuation funds.
Make your application now
Applications, only on forms attached to the Prospectus, for any
amount from £5O upwards, in multiples of £5O, may be made
now through
The Bank of New South Wales
Any member of a Recognised Stock Exchange
A.G.L. Head Office and Showrooms
Bankers for the Issue
Bank of New South Wales
Trustee for Debenture Holders
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited)
The Loan has been underwritten by
Ralph W. King & Yuill • Ernest L. Davis & Co.
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
during 1960-61 for the issue of 363,100
ordinary ss. shares in Dodds. The 56,000
issued pref. shares were acquired for the
cash price of £1 per share.
In 1959-60 Mechanical Handling made
a profit of £65,832 after tax. After pay-
ing pref. and interim ord. divs of
£10,622, the balance of £55,210, as
pre-acquisition profit, was added to that
subsidiary’s working capital rather than
included in group results.
In 1960-61 competition was intense in
all fields in which Mechanical Handling
operated, and results were adversely
affected. At the time of the chairman’s
address in late November substantial
orders were anticipated. Shortly after-
wards the co. obtained one for £750,-
000, to erect a mechanised paint shop
at Elizabeth in South Australia for Gen-
eral Motors-Holden’s Pty Ltd.
Pascoe Industries Ltd was also brought
into the Dodds group in 1960-61 by the
issue of 232,257 ss. ord. shares. The
Pascoe group has operated in Adelaide
since 1928 as sheet metal and general
engineers. Dodds acquired substantial
freeholds comprising offices and work-
shops by this purchase.
The South Australian activities of
Mechanical Handling have been con-
solidated with those of Pascoe.
All Victorian manufacturing and ad-
ministrative activities are now being cen-
tralised on a 10-acre site at Notting Hill,
and operating economies are expected to
accrue as a result.
The first overseas subsidiary, Dodds
Consolidated Industries (Far East) Ltd,
was formed in Singapore during 1960-61,
to extend activities in that area.
A smart real estate transaction was
effected by Dodds with its purchase from
Davies Coop and Co. Ltd during 1960-
61 of a three-year-old building with
30,000 sq. feet of office space. Consider-
ation was the issue of 297,500 ss. Dodds
shares at a premium of 255. each. Issued
capital was thus increased by <£.74,375
and a share premium reserve account
was credited with <£371,875.
The intention was to lease the build-
ing but no suitable arrangement could
be made, and because of the change in
the economic climate, Dodds sold the
building for <£460,000 cash, after col-
lecting £.23,840 in rent during the per-
iod of its ownership.
The reserves at June 30, 1961, there-
fore give a much greater picture of
strength than in 1960. The capital profit
on the building sale has been used to
convert £.262,844 goodwill on consolida-
tion in 1960, into a capital surplus on
consolidation of £.64,649 in 1961.
Reserves as shown in the balance sheet
and reserves tables below were <£399,835
in 1959, subject to total goodwill of
<£105,785 (including <£27,255 licence
and agency agreements), <£943,842 in
1960, subject to total goodwill of £288,-
844 (including £.26,000 licences, etc.),
and £.1,036,367 (including £.64,649
capital surplus) subject only to <£26,000
for licences etc in 1961:
Dodds Consolidated Industries Ltd and
Subsidiaries.
/ Dividends ■, To Re- Re-
June Profit. Ord. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1957.. 20 p.c. = 40,000 61,279 154,578
Tax overprovided, £843 .. .. 185,721
Less loss sale assets, £1723 .. 183,998
Less provision long-service leave,
£lO,OOO 173,998
1958. p.e. = 45,000 125,184 299,182
Profit sale assets, £44 . . . . 299,226
Tax overprovided, £7 . . . . 299,233
1959.. 30 p.c. = 60,000 100,602 399,835
Share premiums, £371,875 .. 771,710
Asset revaluations, £24,625 .. 796,335
Profit sale investments, £88,635 .. 854,970
Tax overprovided, £661 .. .. 885,631
Less loss sale assets, £22/3 .. 883,428
Intangibles written-off, £3lO .. 883,118
1960.. 30 p.c. = 92,644 60,724 943.542
Less loss sale assets, £529 . . 943,313
Tax underprovided, £2501 . . 940,812
Unexplained addition, £8079 . . 948,591
Capital surplus on consol, £64,649 1,013,540
1961.. 124.859 17J p.c. = 102,062 22,827 1,036,367
Peak profit was earned in 1958 with a
net result from trading of £.170,184.
Since then profit has declined success-
ively to £.160,602, <£153,368 and
£.124,889, The earning rate of 85.1 p.c.
on capital in 1958 dropped to 80.3 p.c. in
1959.
A four-for-five bonus from revalua-
tion of shares in subsidiaries, involving
£160,000, was made in 1959-60, so that
earning rate was reduced to more nor-
mal levels of 35.3 p.c. The less buoyant
result for 1960-61 cut earning rate back
to 21.4 p.c.
The dividend record over the years is
10 p.c. for 1951 and 1952, 15 p.c. for


Introducing a NEW service to
Australian business & industry
-¥
Outright purchase for Cash at a Discount,
of
BILLS OF EXCHANGE,
PROMISSORY NOTES, MORTGAGES,
CONTRACTS OF SALE, BOOK DEBTS,
AND ANY SOUND COMMERCIAL PAPER.
! ?TOSEB
Now, through this service, Australian busi-
ness and industry can enjoy the many
benefits of Discounting, well established in
the United Kingdom and the United States
of America as an effective aid to financial
liquidity.
You are invited to phone or call for further details
DISCOUNT FACILITIES
LIMITED
Australia’s first Specialist Discount Company
DISCOUNT HOUSE, 267 FLINDERS LANE, MELB.,
TELEPHONE: 63 4721 (6 LINES)
1953 and 1954, 15 p.c. in 1955 and 1956
after formation of the holding co. by
exchange of five ss. shares for each 20s.
ord. share (in effect a one-for-four bonus),
20 p.c. in 1957, 22* p.c. in 1958, 30 p.c.
in 1959 and 20 p.c. after the big bonus
in 1960. Directors considered a more
conservative div. policy was warranted in
the latest full year and div. was cut to
17* p.c., with interim 7* and final 10
p.c., compared with interim 7* and final
12* p.c. in 1959-60. Interim div. for the
current year has been announced at 5
p.c.
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Paid Capital— 1959. 1960. 1961.
Ord .. .. £200,000 £434,375 £583,141
Reserves . . . . 399,835 943,842 1,036,367
Minority interest 5,625 5,000 4,377
Creditors . . 282,736 385,927 541,975
Mortgages and un-
paid vendors .. 17,000 17,000 103,125
Provision for tax 103,687 104,617 93,965
Provision for
dividend . . 45,000 65,644 . 58,321
Prov. long-service
leave, etc. . . 31,105 39,228 68,476
£1,084,988 £1,995,633 £2,489,747
Land and build-
ings . . . . 106,419 470,056 412,293
Plant, equipment 97,310 206,847 206,441
Investments . . 162,852 92,856 13,000
Work in progress cr 46,977 76,142 430,625
Stocks .. .. 159,231 189,470 600,897
Debtors . . . . 366,667 640,499 642,840
Cash, etc. .. 133.701 30.919 151,051
Goodwill . . .. 105,785. . 288,844 26,000
£1,084,988 £1,995,633 £2,489,747
While working capital has increased
from £455,278 in 1960 to £1,125,887
in 1961, the co.’s assets are very much
less liquid, with over £ l million tied up
in stocks and work in progress. While
the dramatic increase in stocks from
£189,470 in 1960 to £606,897 reflects
in part the changing nature of the group
after recent acquisitions, it is more likely
that a slower turnover is responsible.
The co. has to date financed its growth
from inner resources and the bonanza of
last year’s property deal. With the cur-
rent slim margin of profits over dividends
it cannot continue to do so.
Perhaps it was unfortunate that two
major takeovers coincided with the
recent economic disturbance, to interrupt
the co.’s fine earnings history.
If consolidations can be made quickly,
and a fair share of available business
secured, the combination of better sales
and operating economies could induce a
modest revival in earning rate within a
year or two.
Shareholders cannot expect a repeat
performance of past bonuses until the
co. has proved its capacity to service
greater capital. Meantime the £371,875
in share premium account, the£24,625
in asset revaluation reserve, and £64,-
649 in goodwill on consolidation repre-
sent potential sources of future benefits.
If the co. requires more funds, it is
likely to be of a temporary nature, such
as bank finance. Investments have been
gradually sold off over the years, yet the
co. has managed to keep a credit account
with the bank, and in 1961 had £.85,000
in deposits at call. No call for funds
from shareholders is likely.
The ss. ord. shares are listed on
Melbourne, Sydney and Adelaide ex-
changes. The home market in Melbourne
is probably most representative. There
the price range in the 1959 calendar year
was from 595. to 28s. 6d., in 1960 from
38s. to 205., in 1961 from 225. to 15s. 5d.,
and in 1962 to date from 18s. 9d. to
14s. 6d.
The market was obviously shocked by
the interim div. cut in March, as the
shares were as high as 18s. 9d. in
February.
Share lists in the Press show an un-
realistic yield of 4.7 p.c. on the current
market of around 165., which is based
on an annual div. rate of 10 p.c.
Co. practice has always been to pay a
larger final div. and if this can be held
at 10 p.c. making 15 p.c. for the year,
yield could be 5.1 p.c. A final 7* p.c.,


making 12i p.c. would give a yield of
4.3 p.c.
Tangible asset backing is 13s. Bd. per
ss. share.
The present price of around 14s. 6d. is
probably as low as the stock should be
allowed to fall, unless trading conditions
deteriorate beyond present indications.
Any indication of a return to previous
levels of trading and profitability should
prompt buying into a co. which has built
up considerable reserves.
A.E.I. LTD
A LONG-TERM GAMBLE
A .e.i. Ltd was incorporated as a
public company in Victoria in 1955.
In that year the US interests in Aus-
tralian Electrical Industries Pty Ltd
sold their 50 per cent holdings to the
UK parent company which then in-
corporated A.E.I. Ltd as the Australian
subsidiary with a paid up capital of
£4 million in 20s. ords.; 1,050,000 20s.
ords were offered for sale to the Aus-
tralian public at a price of 20s. 4d. a
share.
The A.E.I. group represents in Aus-
tralia Associated Electrical Industries
Ltd, The British Thomson-Houston Co.
Ltd, The Edison Swan Electric Co. Ltd,
Ferguson Pailin Ltd, Metropolitan-
Vickers Electrical Co. Ltd, and the Hot-
point Electric Appliance Co. Ltd, all of
England. The company manufactuies or
distributes a wide range of engineering
products, ranging from small industrial
motors to large power units, and also a
wide variety of electrical appliances. In
addition to the main operating company
there are two subsidiaries Arrow
Switches (Aust.) Pty Ltd and Hard
Metals Pty Ltd.
In the engineering side of the busi-
ness, A.E.I. traded at a reasonable profit,
but this profit was largely offset by the
recession in the market for electrical
appliances and accessories. Overall sales
of the latter items were 15 p.c. down
on 1959-60.
During the period under review, orders
for engineering plant and equipment
were well maintained. The company
tendered to supply £3m. worth of
equipment to the N.S.W. Electricity
Commission and has also secured a
£lm. contract for 13 transformers. At
present, sales of the improved range of
Hotpoint appliances are encouraging.
In the lighting field, valuable con-
tracts were secured, such as that of
supply of fluorescent fittings for the
Cahill expressway. With Mazda lamps
turnover was well maintained under the
circumstances.
Arrangements with Ediswan - Ekco,
which had been made with regard to
television, did not work out satis-
factorily and have now been terminated
following a merger of the television
interests of Ekco and Pye. With the tele-
vision market in the principal cities
reaching a point of saturation, sales are
at an extremely low level and the com-
pany has decided that it will not par-
ticipate in television trading for the
present.
Consolidated net profit for the year
ended October 31, 1961, fell by
£143,685 to £121,568—a 54 p.c. fall
—after providing £276,894 for de-
preciation (down £16,804) and setting
aside £150,817 for taxation (down
£49,280).
The company has reduced its rate of
depreciation on certain classes of fixed
assets in keeping with its experience over
the years. Even with these modifications
the amount applied was still in excess of
that allowable for income tax purposes.
The ratio of tax provision to net
income (53 p.c., previous year 41 p.c.)
appears high, but this is due mainly to
non - allowance for tax purposes of
normal provisions made by the com-
pany:—
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
Oct. Profit. r Dividend serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1955* ..464,354 f 590,832
Add adjustment accrued income,
£1,662 592,494
Unexplained addition, £940 .. .. 593,434
1956tt. .367,232 71 p.c. = 300,000 67,232 660,666
To prov. long-service leave, £20,750 639,916
Design costs charged against reserves,
£40,577 599,339
1957 ..307,666 71 p.c. = 300,000 7,666 607,005
To redesign, etc., £41,979 .. .. 565,026
To provn. long-service leave, £140,683 424,343
1958 ..239,872 5 p.c. = 200,000 39,872 464,215
To redesign, etc., £25,000 .. .. 439,215
1959 ..273,226 5 p.c. = 200,000 73,226 512,441
Expenses in recovery of traction motors
debt written-off, £45,408 . . 467,033
1960 ..205,223 5 p.c. = 200,000 65,223 532,256
1961 ..121,568 21 p.c. = 100,000 21,568 553,824
* 13 months for operating co.
t Div. of £196,875 paid by operating co. before
formation of parent co.
ff 13 months for subsidiaries of operating co.
Even before last year’s profit drop,
A.E.l.’s record was not very impressive.
In the three years to October 31, 1960,
earning rate hovered around 6.5 p.c.
but with a marked fall in the last period
to 3 p.c.
Ordinary dividend at the reduced rate
of 2i p.c. was paid (owing to the un-
satisfactory trading year) as compared
to 5 p.c. in 1960.
Reserves benefited by £21,568 to
£553,824 free of intangibles.
Paid capital remained unchanged at
£4 million since incorporation. Minority
interest increased by £lB9B to
<£111,358. Mortgage was £675,000
(down £15,000). Unsecured loans re-
mained the same at £350,000. Accom-
modation provided by associated com-
panies rose by £1,577,128 to
£5,692,046. Bank overdraft was
cleared and creditors stood at
£1,280,517 (down £306,306). Sundry
provisions rose by £12,636 to
£208,326:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1959. 1960. 1961.
Paid capital £4,000,000 £4,000,000 £4,000,000
Reserves . . 512,441 532,256 553,524
Minority interest 103,794 109,460 111,358
Mortgage . . 705,000 690,000 675,000
Unsecured loan 350,000 350,000 350,000
Owing to associ-
ated cos. .. 3,070,402 4,114,918 5,692,046
Overdraft . . 436,261 553,044
Creditors .. 1,004,235 1,586,823 1,280,517
Sundry provi-
sions . . 207,948 195,690 208,326
Tax provision 199,979 203,222 148,169
Final div. . . 100,000 100,000 100,000
£10,690,060 £12,435,413 £13,119,240
Fixed assets . . 2,968,712 3,230,716 3,194,917
Owing bv associ-
ated cos. . . 23,098 63,717 98,287
Stock .. .. 4,187,446 4,657,317 4,115,540
Debtors, etc. .. 3,472,303 4,449,430 5,265,011
Cash . . . . 38,501 34,233 442,485
£10,090,060 £12,435,413 £13,119,240
Fixed assets were shown at £3,194,917
(down £35,799) after allowing lower
depreciation for the year. Amounts
owing by associated companies rose by
£34,570 to £98,287. Stock was valued
at £4,118,540 (down by £538,777).
Book debts again rose by the high
figure of £815,581 to £5,265,011
accounting for over half of the theoreti-
cal working capital of £8,089,024.
Cash on hand stood at £442,485 (up
£408,252).
The balance sheet indicates that
although A.E.I. was seriously affected
by abnormalities of economic conditions
its financial position was healthy but
that full use was not made of the funds
available during the year.
The year under review was a difficult
trading period and the electrical ap-
pliance industry was one of the first to
experience reduced sales. The industry
is only just beginning to get back on its
feet and it is doubtful whether A.E.1.,
faced with growing competition in most
of the markets for electrical goods, can
quickly regain even the low earning
level of 6 p.c. notwithstanding the
general economic revival.
At the last sale in Sydney the 20s.
fully paid ords were traded well below
par around 13s. 3d. a unit, making the
stock an interesting long-term gamble on
economic recovery and a more efficient
use of capital. But it is hard to see an
immediate radical improvement. The
yield is 3.6 p.c. on the basis of the 2\ p.c.
dividend rate.
Based on the consolidated accounts
net tangible assets backing of the 20s.
ords was 225. 9d.


LEONARD G. MAY & SON
Incorporating J. E. MARTIN, HEAI)
& CO.
Partners: L. G. MAY, J. G. MAY,
V. T. HAUSER, E. W. HEAD.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS,
Ground Floor, 99 Queen Street,
Melbourne.
Telephones: MU2638, MUS7IG-7, MU256!).
Telegrams: “RENNMAY,” Melbourne.
WALTER P. HAM & CO.
WALTER PERRY HAM and WILLIAM
JOHN BAKER
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
INVESTMENT HOUSE,
116 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
Telephone: 60-0221 (30 lines)
Telegrams: HAIIWAL, Melbourne
GILBERT HARRIMAN & CO.
STOCK AND SHAREBROKER
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
KINDERSLEY HOUSE,
7th Floor,
20 O’Connell St.,
33 Bligh St., Sydney
Telegrams:
HARRISHA, SYDNEY.
Tels: 28-83!}8, 28-8399
LINDSAY MILDRED & CO.
Lindsay Mildred, Alfred Campbell
SHAREBROKERS
Members of the Stock Exchange
of Melbourne
56 QUEEN STREET,
MELBOURNE
62-1601
Telegraphic and Cable Address:
MILUKGI) MELBOURNE
HELP
LEGACY
all the year round.
Donations: 169 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney. BM2OOI.
J. GADSDEN LTD
PROFITS PLOUGHED BACK
'T'he country's leading can maker, J.
Gadsden Ltd, now tooling up to make
cans in Sydney for a local brewery as it
has been doing for some time for Carlton
& United in Victoria, is probably one
of the soundest investments on ’Change.
Nobody, of course, is much enamored
by the earnings rate which has moved
up only slowly in recent years (it actually
shaded a fraction to 10.4 per cent last
year) and provides only marginal cover
for the 8 per cent dividend, a rate paid
with monotonous regularity, but mostly
on an ascending equity, practically since
listing in 1953.
Judging from the company’s profit
statement for the half-year, shareholders
can expect higher profits for the full term
but not, it seems, any increase in dividend.
With about two-thirds of the ordinary
capital held by the wide spreading
branches of the Gadsden family,
dividends are not the main object of
this company’s exercise.
For most of these shares are held in
trust in private companies, which per-
force must distribute most of their in-
come, which in turn attracts in their case
high tax rates as anyone who followed
the recent inter-family squabble in the
Victorian Equity Court will attest.
Very reasonably it is more expedient
to plough back profits into the public
company and open the oyster at the
appropriate time.
What the oyster already contains is
anybody s guess, but disclosed reserves
of £1,554,636 last June would hardly be
an accurate guide.
The last sale in Sydney was at about
18s. 9d. for each 10s. ord. unit.
BLUE METAL INDUSTRIES
OUTLOOK BRIGHTER
"P ven the best integrated concerns
are vulnerable if the industry which
they serve is strait-jacketed.
Blue Metal Industries Ltd, with
quarries supplying blue metal aggre-
gates and road base, hot and cold bit-
uminous mix and ready-mixed concrete
plants, brickworks and general contract-
ing business for marble, terrazzo and
other facing materials, earned lower
profit in the half-year to March 31, 1961,
than in the previous corresponding
period.
Directors say that some subsidiaries
sold less because of the decline in the
building and construction industries.
They see some improvement since the
lifting of the Federal Government’s finan-
cial restrictions last February.
The 15 p.c. dividend rate of the last
two years is continued with an interim
pay ment of 74 p.c. Earnings in the year
ended September 30, 1961, increased
from £737,974 to £813,555, but the earn-
ing rate on higher capital slipped from
the record 35 p.c. to 28.2 p.c. The ss.
ords last sold at about 235. 6d. for an
immediate yield of 3.2 p.c.
ELDER SMITH-GOLD. MORT
THE £12m. MERGER
"jp lder Smith Goldsbrough Mort Ltd
is the name of the new co. resulting
from the merger of Elder Smith and
Goldsbrough Mort.
The company will have an issued
capital of £l2m., giving it the sixteenth
ranking on the Sydney Stock Exchange
lists. It is just outranked by its rival
Dalgety and New Zealand Loan Ltd
whose present issued capital is £12,725,125
—including £3.3m. in preference shares.
Eider Smith shareholders will receive
eight fully paid 10s. shares in the hold-
ing company for each five 20s. shares
(paid to 125.). Goldsbrough shareholders
will get two fully paid 10s. shares in
the holding company for each 20s. stock
unit.
The Elder Smith shareholding in the
new co. is £7.2m. —giving it a 60 p.c.
interest and Goldsbrough’s £4.Bm.
Nominal capital is £2sm. in 50m. 10s.
shares.
The expected dividend rate is 8 p.c.,
offering no immediate improvement to
shareholders. However, significant cost
savings are expected in future, allowing
the release of funds for more profitable
employment.
The first board of 12 will consist of
seven directors nominated by Elder Smith
and five by Goldsbrough.
HENDERSON’S INDUSTRIES LTD
PROFIT EASES
A/fELBOURNE manufacturer of springs,
A axles and mattresses, Henderson’s
Industries Ltd, had a quieter half-yerr to
December, 1961, but has maintained in-
terim ordinary dividend at 5 p.c.
Directors now see some signs of im-
proved business, after the slower trading
of the first half of the year.
Fortunately, the co. enjoyed a high
degree of liquidity during the period.
The chairman, Mr V. G. F. Hender-
son, had predicted at the annual meeting
last November that the 1961-62 results
might not equal the 1960-61 result.
Group profit last year retreated from
£239,876 to £222,142, but the earning
rate of 25 p.c. on capital gave sound
cover for the steady 10 p.c. div. which
required only £88,672.


LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Sixth Floor,
56 Hunter Street, Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Telephone: BW 5721.
Telegrams and Cables:
“LAGRAM,” Sydney.
GUNTON, STEEL & HILL
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS.
Members of the Sydney Stock
Exchange.
Kindersley House, 20 O’Connell
Street, Sydney.
Box 1632, G.P.O.
Telephone:
28-2641 (6 lines)
Telegrams:
“Gunot,” Sydney
Telex: Syd. 242
A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. Jj. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members oj Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Fife Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 312761 P.O. BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887VV
STEAMSHIPS TRADING
CANDOR OF DIRECTORS
TAirectors of Steamships Trading Co.
have hastened to refurbish a reputa-
tion only lightly tarnished by the W. R.
Carpenter takeover dealings. Their circu-
lar to shareholders turns out to be satis-
fyingly candid.
It is apparent, though, that the board
does not believe withdrawal of this
particular bid means the end of all flirta-
tions with the company. The assets are to
be put into contemporary shape and con-
sideration applied to splitting the exist-
ing 20s. ordinaries into ss. units.
“In order that shareholders themselves
may be in a better position in future to
judge the worth of their shares, your
directors are presently considering the
whole structure of the company to enable
them to decide what action, if any, is
necessary to assure that in future any
offers which might be made will take
into account the true value of the com-
pany’s assets,” the circular modestly
proposes.
Carpenters had offered 16 ss. shares
for every 10 Steamships 20s. shares, plus
ss. cash for each Steamships—in all worth
about 595. a share. After the bid was
first announced, without revelation of
terms, Steamships rocketed to 575. With-
drawal sent them back as low as 41s.
They now repose at 525. 6d.
Steamships’ directors may have been
put in an ambiguous position on public
disclosure by bid terms which provided
automatic withdrawal if the offer was not
accepted for recommendation.
Yet directors clearly had no doubts
about rejecting the bid on relative earn-
ings and income considerations.
Meanwhile shareholders are given con-
fident assurance that they should have
no immediate fears for Papua, “either
from Dutch New Guinea or from any
internal movement such as self-determina-
tion for the native inhabitants.” The
current 1961-62 year should produce
record results.
T. A. FIELD FLOAT
nr. A. Field Holdings flotation issue
seems hardly likely to provoke a
wild flurry of stags. A total of 3,193,993
ss. ordinaries are available for the public
at 6s. 3d. a share.
Underwriters to the issue are Sydney
brokers Ralph W. King and Yuill.
Directors foreshadow not less than
7 per cent dividend for the year ending
June 30, giving a yield at 5.6 per cent
on issue price. Current earning rates
produce an earnings yield of nearly 9
per cent. Assets backing appears at pre-
cisely 6s. 3d. a share.
Public raisings will bring in £998,122
capital £798,498, premium £199,624.
Paid capital then becomes £2 million.
This old family business puts NSW
and Queensland interests into the public
company meatworks for local trade
and export, retail shops and plants pro-
ducing meat meal and tallow.
The public is actually buying a 40
per cent interest, practically all its con-
tribution being needed to complete the
£2.15 million being paid to vendors.
The full 1960-61 profit, adjusted for
public company taxation, reached
£223,604, representing earning rate of
11.18 per cent, on post-issue capital.
Earnings for the half-year to December
31 last, £112,452, lift yearly earning rate
to 11.24 per cent.
Years prior to these look a little erratic.
The domestic meat industry has some
fairly hard slogging in front of it. Fields
certainly own the capacity to accomplish
its promised “hope for improvement.”
The new company faces some stern
market judgment.
V.W.
ONE TO BUY
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT CORP.
the expected revival of the
durable consumer goods market —
for cars, electrical appliances, furniture
and so on —the h.-p. financiers should
be busier. Cambridge Credit Corpora-
tion Ltd stands out as the most interesting
prospect for investment. In 1959 paid
capital was a mere £175,000. By June 30,
1961, it had grown to £782,500. After
the current one-for-five issue of ss. shares
at Is. premium it will be £1,180,200.
Cambridge, which had its beginnings in
Newcastle, has until recently confined its
activities largely to NSW.
The company finances durable goods
sales, lends money on first mortgages and
bills of sale, and has a fair-sized invest-
ment portfolio. In February, 1961, it took
over Nottingham Insurance Co. Ltd and
several smaller companies.
In the last five years average earnings
have been 17.3 p.c. on capital, from which
the company had no difficulty in paying
12i p.c. dividends in equal half-yearly
amounts. In the latest half-term to Dec-
ember, 1961, Cambridge made a profit of
£78,003 —28 p.c. higher than the previous
corresponding period. Tax-free benefits
accrued from Nottingham Insurance, so
that tax provision was light at £35,000.
Earning rate on an annual basis was 19.5
p.c., compared with 18.1 p.c. on average
capital employed in the year to June
1961.
In November last, Cambridge opened a
debenture and note issue which was
underwritten to £400,000. The public
subscribed more than £lm., which,
Cambridge reports, has been employed
profitably on sound security.
Greater interstate penetration by
the company should attract more invest-
ment interest to the shares, which are
selling around 7s. to yield 8.9 p.c.
on the p.c. dividend basis.
WOOIWORTHS LTD
\J67 oolworths Ltd, the giant Sydney-
based chain retailer, will make a
one-for-five issue at par as at August 15,
1962. Shareholders and noteholders will
participate, and the issue will involve
more than 13.2 m. ord. shares, ranking
for dividends after the final div. is paid
in April, 1963. The company’s consoli-
dated net earnings for the year to
January 31, 1962, were disclosed at
£2,022,971 (up £107,394), after deduct-
ing £1,014,748 tax and £623,299 deprecia-
tion provisions.


LEADING
SHARE
PRICES
-—Prices
Last
Div.
Div.
Earn.
Earn.
Par
Sale,
Rate
Yield
Rate
Yield
Company
Value
1901
2/4/62
9/4/62
p.c.
p.c.
p.c.
p.c.
Amalgamated Chemicals
5/-
1 -1/3
17/104
17/9XD
124
3.5
21.4
6.1
A.W.A.
5/-
20/4-1
20/-
20/9 XD
14
3.4
22
5.3
Ampol
5/—
11/4
12/3
12/-
14
5.S
19
7.9
A.li.C. Inds.
10/-
46/3
50/104
51 / 6*
15
2.9
29.7
5.8
Assoc. Pulp
20/-
29/3
32/6
32/3*
—
—
13.0
8.3
Aust. Chemicals
10/-
30/41
30/6
31/—XD
124
4.0
21.5
7.2
A.C..I
20/-
72/6
72/6
71/9
8J
2.3
19.3
5.4
Aust. Guarantee
5/-
14/-
12/-
12/4
15
6.1
20.3
8.2
Aust. Gypsum
5/—
14/3
14/0
14/6
10
3.4
14.9
5.1
A.P.M
20/-
25/3
27/-
27/3XD
8
5.S
10
7.3
Bank N.SAV.
£20
£34
£38
9
4.7
12.2
6.4
Bitumen and Oil
5/—
24/-
26/-
26/6
174
3.3
32.4
6.1
Blue Metal Indus.
5/-
22/7L
24/3
23/74
15
3.2
27.6
5.8
Bradford Cotton
5/—
7/0
7/3
7/3XD
10
6.7
11.2
7.7
British Tobacco
20/-
25/-
22/104
21/-
8
7.6
9.7
9.2
B.H.P
20/-
69/-
02/-
64/3XR
6!
1.9
15.5
4.8
Burns Pliilp
20/-
91/-
95/9
95/3-
10
2.1
12.4
2.6
Clyde Inds
5/-
10/8
11/-
10/1XD
15
7.4
15.3
7.6
C.S.R
£20
£59/10/-
£55/5/—
£55
9
3.3
12.4
4.5
C.A.G.A.
5/-
11/3
11/8
11/8
10
4.3
12.3
5.2
Clth. Ilid. Gas
20/-
£5
£5/5/—
£5/2/6
11
2.1
25.2
4.9
Commercial Union
5/-
19/3
23/-
22/—XD
64
1.5
18.4
4.2
Concrete Inds
5/-
15/14
15/104
15/104
10
3.2
16.6
5.3
Consolidated Zinc
25/-
62/6
62/6
01/9
7-J t
3.4
20.5
8.3
Cox Bros.
5/—
7/6
7/6
i / 6
10
6.6
11.8
7.9
Custom Credit
5/-
13/-
12/9
12/8
15
5.9
19.5
7.7
Cyclone
10/-
26/-
22/3
22/104*
10 .
4.2
17. <
7.5
Dalgetv—N.Z. Loan
20/-
47/6
44/6*
8
3.0
13.9
6.2
David Jones
18/9
20/-
19/14XD
124
3.3
28.7
7.5
Drug Houses
20/-
09/-
68/—
69/—XD
Hi ‘
3.3
17.7
5.1
Dunlop Rubber
20/-
35/-
41/-
41/14*
10
4.9
16
7.S
Elder Smith
12/-
23/9
26/6
26/3*
10
4.6
12.6
5.8
Electronic Inds ‘‘B”
10/-
13/3
13/3
13/3*
124
9.4
—
—
Email
7/6
8/1
8/-*
10
6.0
11
6.8
E.Z. Inds
10/-
12/11
14/3
14/3*XD
10
7.0
12.4
S.7
Felt and Textiles
5/-
6/11
8/-
7/9*
10
6.5
13.9
S.6
General Inds
20/-
14/6
11/3
10/3
5
9.8
9.9
19.3
G. J. Coles
5/-
13/6
13/9
13/7
11
4.1
14.8
5.5
Goldsbrough
20/-
28/6
32/6
32/3
8
5.0
11.7
7.2
H. C. Sleigh
5/-
11/-
12/11
13/—XD
124
4.9
13.4
5.2
Henry Jones
20/-
80/-
S5/—
85/6
10
2.3
28.6
6.6
H. G. Pajmer
15/6
16/44
10/10£
124
3.7
34.5
10.2
Howard Smith
20/-
51/3
50/—
10
4.0
6.5
2.6
Humes
20/-
70/6
74/—*
77/-*
14
3.6
24.6
6.4
I.A.C. (Holdings)
5/-
13/4
14/6
14/3
16s
5.8
20.6
7.2
I.C.l.A.N.Z.
20/-
38/-
43/9
42/-
7
3.3
9.7
4.6
J. Gadsden
10/-
15/3
19/3
18/9
8
4.3
10.4
5.5
John Lysaght
20/-
64/6
65/3
66/—XD
8
2.4
12.3
3.7
Kandos Cement
5/-
22/—XR
22/104*
124
2.7
13.5
2.9
Kelvinator
5/-
18/3
19/-
19/-
15
3.9
33.4
8.8
Lend Lease
5/-
20/-
22/44
22/3
10
2.2
21.4
4.9
L. J. Hooker
5/-
7/-
5/2
5/2
15
14.8
21.1
20.4
Mercantile Credits
5/-
8/8
8/9
9/2*XD
10
5.4
16.6
9.0
McPhersons
20/-
47/-
42/6
42/3
Si
3.9
12.4
5.8
Minster
10/-
62/-
76/-
80/-
20
2.5
34.8
4.4
Moulded Products
5/-
13/2
14/-
14/1XD
14
5.0
3.7
1.3
Mt. Isa Mines
5/-
71/0
72/-
72/9
25
1.7
02.3
4.3
Mutual Acceptance
5/-
8/10
10/-
10/2
15
7.3
22.3
11.0
Mver Emporium
5/-
29/-
33/3
32/104*
XD 16§
2.5
2S.3
4.3
National Consol.
5/-
27/-
27/74
27/9
20
3.6
35.3
6.4
Olympic Industries
5/—
7/7
8/9
9/1
9
5.0
16.2
9.0
Peters (Vic.)
2/-
8/6
S/7
8/6XB XD 15
3.5
18.9
4.4
Petrochemical
20/-
26/-
31/-
31/—XD
6
3.9
5.9
3.S
Pioneer Concrete
5/-
18/9
22/3
21/104
124
2.9
30.7
7.0
K.M. Concrete
5/—
17/44
17/104
17/9XD
124
3.5
22.9
6.4
Reid Murray
5/-
5/3
. 4/9
4/3
—
—
9.4
11.1
Repco
5/-
12/5
13/9
13/10
10
3.6
17.8
6.5
Rio Tinto
5/-
15/9
19/6
19/74
10
2.5
71.7
IS.3
Rothmans
20/-
87/6
76/-
71/-
174
4.9
47.7
13.4
Thiess
5/-
13/-
11/10
11/3*
124
5.6
14.4
6.7
Tooth
20/-
60/-
62/3
63/6
134
4.2
15.9
5.0
Union Carbide
20/-
80/-
79/-
79 / —*
10
2.5
15.9
4.0
Waltons
5/-
13/8
14/1
14/—XD
124
4.5
19.7
7.0
Woolworths
5/-
15/4
16/74
16/9XD
12
3.6
15.4
4.6
Wormald
5/—
11/10
11/9
12/-
10
4.2
14.2
5.9
W. R. Carpenter
5/-
30/-
32/-
32/9XD
15
2.3
35.1
5.4
f Nominal.
* Mid
price. XD Ex Dividend. XR Ex
Rights.
XB Ex Bonus.
SYDNEY
STOCK
EXCHANGE
INDICES
Banks,
Other
Pas-
Base
All
Indus-
etc.
Finance
toral
Retailers
Metals
Olds.*
trials
December 22, 1961
.. 137.37
541.02
182.31
389.15
369.85
299.07
31S.74
April 2, 1962
.. 145.99
582.00
191.53
397.43
597.46
305.34
322.63
April 3, 1962
.. 146.56
579.61
191.80
394.57
603.20
303.46
320.29
April 4, 1962
.. 146.30
578.28
191.11
392.68
602.72
303.65
320.94
April 5, 1962
.. 14S.20
581.69
190.54
394.25
598.02
305.47
322.88
April 6, 1962
. . 148.69
584.71
190.88
392.16
596.52
305.26
322.57
April 9, 1962
.. 148.24
580.50
190.12
390.63
595.15
304.67
322.15
* Peak 348.46 September
16, 1960.
MELBOURNE STOCK
EXCHANGE
AVERAGE VIKLI)
ON 100 OltMNAKY SHAKES
, SO Leading
Ordinary Stork?
—50 Other Storks —Random Smnple-
Dividend Yield
Earnings Yield
Dividcnd Yield Earnings Yield
l>i i i tuber 22. 1i 1
.. 4.4!)
fi.SO
5.30 7.4(i
April 5. 10(32
.. 4.25
<3.25
4.90 3.28
April 6, 1002
.. 4.27
6.28
4.99 2.97
SHAREMARKET SUMMARY
T ast week’s somewhat haphazard share-
market behavior appeared to have
been moderated by Friday. Good quality
industrials especially finished in slightly
better shape. Early Monday dealings
largely confirmed the improving tendency.
They were, however, distinguished by a
decided retreat in the two principal
tobaccos. Rothmans, indeed, speedily
shed 4s. on Friday levels going to 695.
The previous Friday had seen the shares
still at 765. 6d. British Tobacco eased
6d. after having lost Is. 9d over the
week.
Much of the recorded improvement
may be ascribed to B.H.P.’s small rally,
following a lessening of debenture issue
blues and to repeated interest among
oils. Industrials, though, continue to
receive most careful scrutiny.
Investors decline to become too excited
over further symptoms of the economy’s
gentle recovery, now being expressed in
improved wool prices and employment
figures. Acute selection in all but oils
looks likely to prevail for some time.
The oil section remains at a high
level, of course dominated by A.O.G.
Turnovers have tended to spurt once
more and buyers come in force for the
more prominent stocks. Following
Thursday’s drop to 71s. Friday gave
A.O.G. a net gain of 9s. to 80s., while
Monday morning added a further 2s.
Associated Oil, Planet and Beach
Petroleum were being sought higher.
Other than 8.H.P., most leaders seem
a little uncertain, but a more solid under-
tone has become visible. A.C.1., in par-
ticular, is moving up following the week’s
mild shake-out. Burns Philp, C.S.R. and
Henry Jones are tolerably steady.
1.C.1., which lost 2s. to hit 425. by
Friday, seemed firmer by Monday.
The whole week’s trading displayed
an overall withdrawal by most principal
index sections. As indicated, this was
considerably slowed by the end of the
week. Retailers were most affected, carry-
ing their unsteadiness on into Monday.
David Jones, G. J. Coles, Myer and
Waltons all exhibited uneasiness.
Base metals are set to react favorably
to resumption of full production at
Broken Hill. Consolidated Zinc and
Mount Isa both showed net falls over last
week, but began to pick up on Monday.
Jedda, into whose moribund shell dress
shop chain Katies Consolidated Pty has
been injected, crept more above par.
This is trading upon a mysterious base.


OIL AND MINING
THE PRICE OF A.O.G. SHARES
llJver since Moonie and the Surat Basin
became the focus of hectically sus-
tained investment attention early last
December, a flood of attempts has been
made to value Australian Oil and Gas
shares. The practical battle is joined on
the Stock Exchanges. A wave of theorists
also surge around, to darken or lighten
the air.
Many warning voices assert that Aus-
tralians have had, for obvious reasons,
little practical experience at this kind of
exercise. Though over all A.O.G.’s ups
and downs, it seems worthy of note that
the wild frenzy which greeted Rough
Range (Western Australia) has been
avoided.
Investors, both amateur and profes-
sional, now behave more carefully. They
seem readier to heed moderate and
informed advice.
Not that there comes a great amount of
this, in high quality. In particular, pleas
for an analysis of our oil possibilities
along vastly experienced American lines
go largely unanswered.
Sydney brokers Charles A. Ord and
Minnett now step into the breach with a
most informative and distinguished
analysis—“ Oil Interests in Australia.”
Their publication examines factually
the operations and concessions of the
principal oil exploration companies, their
affiliations and prevailing market capitali-
sations. But immediate interest goes to
A.O.G. and the Associated Oil group.
These two receive thorough examination
by “the methods used by security analysts
in the United States and Canada in
evaluating oil stocks.”
HTo start with, we may record the end
A result interesting to everyone. A.O.G.
at present possesses an “indicated intrinsic
value per share” of 765. 9d. For com-
parison, actual trading closed in Sydney
on Monday at 80s. 9d.
Ord and Minnett make no recommen-
dations throughout their booklet. Their
approach is completely analytic and com-
mendably cautious. Steps in the process
are well worth setting out.
The foundation of the American
method is to evaluate the given com-
pany’s underlying assets.
Such assets comprise: the value of
proven oil and gas reserves ; the value
of untested but potential land holdings ;
cash resources and other assets.
Naturally, with interlocking and partial
holdings in untested lands “wild cat
acreage”—varying degrees of interest are
held. The three kinds of acreage interest
are royalty, carried and working.
Royalty interest confers upon the
holder a right to a percentage of the
value of oil and gas sold at well head,
before costs are deducted. It is accepted
as the most valuable interest.
Carried interest gives a percentage of
net profits after exploration and operat-
ing expenses. In this case, the holder puts
up no funds and therefore takes no risk.
A working interest means that the
holder contributes his share of explora-
tion and operating expenses. He takes
then his proportion from proceeds of oil
and gas sold.
The respective interests are usually
related by considering a royalty acre
worth three times a working interest
acre, while a carried interest acre is taken
as one-and-a-half times a working
interest.
Before proceeding directly into A.0.G.,
Ord and Minnett make some general
observations which investors should keep
well in mind. These make nonsense of
one or two versions of evaluation based
on metallic mining as the yardstick.
Earnings
For oil is usually much cheaper to
produce than metallic minerals, costs of
a medium-size field constituting about
20 per cent, of its production value
against 80 per cent, or more for most
mines. An oil field is usually worked
so that reserves are used up over 15 to
25 years.
It must always be realised that after
opening up a new oil area, much expendi-
ture goes to the discovery of new fields
and lifting reserves. Early earnings are
ploughed back. Consequently quick
dividends do not become the rule.
In the current atmosphere of success
and elation, a reminder comes that US
experience shows one “wild cat” in every
nine drilled finding commercial oil or
gas. But the discoveries pay for the dries.
HThe brute facts of Moonie seem to
suggest “that oil has been formed in
this area of South-east Queensland in
commercial quantities.” World parallels
indicate “there could be a number of
other oil and gas fields in the same
region.”
Taking a line from costs of Australia’s
crude imports, it seems that Queensland
oil delivered to Brisbane would sell close
to US prices. Crude reserves in the
ground “may reasonably be valued at
one dollar a barrel.”
The much discussed pipeline to Bris-
bane of which more below, becomes
economically feasible on reserves of 50
million barrels. “It is possible that the
Moonie field will contain reserves of this
magnitude if the next three or four
wells are comparable with Moonie Nos.
1 and 2.”
After all this necessary preamble,
now straight into the A.O.G. evaluation
at last. A.O.G.’s strategic background
is first outlined.
The company owns a 20 per cent,
carried interest in Moonie and in con-
cessions extending over 38,400.000 acres
of south-east Queensland and northern
NSW. This gives it, by the way, “the
largest oil concession in the free world
in which a major oil discovery has been
made.” Operating companies, Union Oil
and Kern County, are bearing all costs.
A.O.G. therefore takes 20 per cent, of
net profits. Its participation represents
7,600,000 net carried acres one net
carried acre for each issued share after
the present new issue.
In the immediate analysis, Ord and
Minnett conservatively do not try to
establish any value on A.O.G.’s other
concessions Sydney Basin, Murray
Basin, Oaklands Basin. Thus the valu-
ation derives entirely from Moonie.
Here results from Moonie No. 1 indi-
cate recoverable oil reserves of, perhaps,
10,000 barrels an acre ; from Moonie No.
2, with two oil sands, of 30,000 barrels
an acre. The two oil wells are two-thirds
of a mile apart. By allowing a half-mile
in either direction, the ensuing area of
1000 acres could contain 20 million
barrels of reserves.
Valuation
A more extended field might bring
reserves up to 50 million barrels. Moonie
No. 3 has still to make its contribution.
But the calculations employ the low
reserve estimate and a low acreage price.
A valuation of 65,900,000 US dollars
is reached, made up of: reserves, 20 per
cent, of 20 million barrels at one dollar
a barrel, 4 million dollars ; prospective
acreage, 20 per cent, carried interest in
38.4 million acres at 5 dollars per work-
ing interest acre, 57.6 million dollars;
cash resources, money from the new issue,
4.3 million dollars.
The total represents the value of
7,658,400 issued ss. shares, throwing
down, on conversion, the indicated in-
trinsic value of 765. 9d. a share.
This type of analysis is then applied to
the Associated Oil group, emphasising
particularly its 8,400,000 acre concession
next to A.O.G.’s in south-east Queens-
land. Glentulloch lies in the middle of
this permit and “could be of important
commercial significance.” The Bowen
Basin holding, sufficiently close to the
south-east Queensland Basin, is also
considered as having commercial value.
To the valuation of this group must be
brought a costing for known gas reserves.
Most crucially, adjustments for relative


financial commitments and past recoup-
able expenditures can be made, covering
various group members.
The different kinds of interests are
handled in the same manner as for
A.0.G., together with farm-out and
other agreements.
Indicated values for the separate
members, incorporating cross interests,
become: A. A. Oil, 20s. lid.; Assoc.
Freney, Bs. 6d. ; Freney Kimberley, 4s.
lid.; Assoc. Continental, 25.; Papuan
Apinaipi, 4s. 7d. ; Interstate, ss. 9d.
Once more, a large area of other con-
cessions throughout Australia and Papua
has to be ignored. As well, the above
estimates must be regarded as very
rough: “since these companies have not
yet made a discovery comparable to
Moonie.”
After all this finely balanced detail, the
bare summary of the rest of the oil
companies comes as rather an anti-
climax. This sort of task has been tackled
by other brokers, who have accompanied
their outlines with much random advice.
This Ord and Minnet eschew. They
sagely reflect that many millions will
probably have to be spent “to determine
whether or not other areas have com-
parable possibilities with south-east
Queensland.” Technical evaluation of
these areas remains a pipe-dream.
Nevertheless, the material contained in
this section of the publication is exceed-
ingly useful and up-to-date.
Pipe-dreams and visions make for some
diversion in our oil prospects, though, so
we return, briefly, to that famous and
hopefully required pipeline.
The most ebullient of our oil-directed
brokers, Corrie and Co., from Queens-
land, treats its location as a pressing and
dramatic problem in an April market
review. “The question is—‘Where will
the pipeline go?’ ”
Canberra, apparently, is being subjected
to one of the most professional and
important lobbying campaigns for many
a day—a tug of war between the Federal
Government, the Queensland Govern-
ment and the big oil interests.
Not surprisingly, Queensland gets
urged to take the initiative “with a
positive course of action.” This embraces
a fight for Brisbane termination of the
line and maximum Queensland refining
capacity.
Oil companies must be enticed
towards Queensland investment by
“selling the State properly, not in a half-
baked manner.”
Some of this discussion may sound pre-
mature. But Mr Corrie has a real point.
It should never be too early to discuss
Australia’s possible future and to plan the
allocation of its resources. Faction fights
have wrought overmuch damage in the
past.
OIL
NEW FROME-B. H. SITE SURPRISES
/"''lose observers of Frome-Broken Hill,
v ' / owned roughly one-third each by
B. P. Exploration, Vacuum Oil (now
Mobil) and Interstate Oil, have been
surprised by the siting of the fifth well
now to be drilled in the Port Campbell
area of western Victoria.
Accepted opinion was that the marine
sedimentaries located in the area
thickened seawards from the No. 1 well
which struck gas in commercial quantities
in December, 1959.
The second and third wells were sited
in a line fairly close to the first and,
although not yielding gas shows as good
as that one, were believed to confirm the
existence of substantial reservoirs of gas
in that section. The fourth well, drilled
last year, was sited some distance to the
west, but still fairly adjacent to the coast
like the three others.
This well produced intermittent gas
flows with some condensate but the
formation failed to show gas in com-
mercial quantities.
Now, although seismic work must have
justified the decision, the company is to
put its filth well down approximately 60
miles north-west of Port Campbell. That
is much further from the coast than the
others. And this decision was made
despite the seismic surveys off-shore.
Thus it could be that the company has
made a reassessment of the possibilities
for the whole area, perhaps now believing
that there are good chances of locating
actual flow oil further inland.
Anyway the shares of Interstate Oil
have Lucked up a little, helped by this
new drilling activity and doubtless, too, in
view of the new issue of two-for-three
ss. shares now to be made at par.
The decision of the A.A.O. group, in
which Interstate has a 15 p.c. stake, to
mount a new drilling campaign in Queens-
land had something to do with it, though
the shares of other companies in the
consortium remain rather tired after
their recent flights of contagious Moonie
enthusiasm.
The group started another well last
week at Killornan, about eight miles
south of the successful gas well at Glen-
tulloch, and is still driving a bit at West-
grove without as yet any startling dis-
covery.
Also preening itself for a spurt in
activity, Oil Development has announced
a series of new wells to be drilled in the
north-west of its Alpha permit area, to
the north of A.A.O.’s well-studded Roma
district.
Certainly Moonie’s bird in the Queens-
land bush makes that State the one to
concentrate on, and Ampol has taken the
point by carving out a huge slice of
territory for itself in the Malborough
basin beyond, in the hope that its “wild
catters” will do better than they have so
far done in Western Australia.
Yet one would not give the West away
as an oil prospect by any means, and it
is highly likely that now Ampol is going
to direct its attention to Queensland,
the W 7 A Government will put into
effect its recent hint that some of Wapet’s
vast permit area will be opened to other
applicants. This would be a very good
thing, as it has always seemed anomalous
that those seeking permit areas in WA in
recent years have been obliged to accept
only unlikely pieces of desert outside the
recognised sedimentary areas.
One of the most likely contenders for a
slice of Wapet’s WA areas will apparently
be Total Oil’s parent, the' Compagnie
Francaise Des Petroles, which has a
mission in Perth at the moment feeling
out the possibilities.
The next newcomer on the Queensland
search scene could well be Shell, which
will doubtless be watching as closely as
Santos shareholders the fate of the well
going down south of Innamincka, across
the border from Queensland. That
section of the Great Artesian Basin has
always been a particular favorite of
American geologists on account of the
series of obvious dome structures there.
J. C. HORSFALL
McDONNELL AND EAST
RETAILER'S STRENGTH
TVTet profit for the year to January 31,
1962, rose from £75,959 to £87,564,
after £61,400 (previously £49,000) tax
provision and £23,407 (£18,462) deprecia-
tion. Earning rate was consolidated from
20.2 p.c. to 20.9 p.c. on ord. cap.
McDonnell and East retails clothing,
furniture and domestic appliances from
freehold premises in George Street in the
heart of Brisbane’s shopping area.
Essentially a draper, the company now
has a substantial mail-order business. In
1960-61 the store's 60th birthday was
marked by a 24 p.c. bonus dividend to
ord. shareholders. This year, the co.
reverted to its usual 124 p.c. rate.
After paying £51,987 in ordinary
dividends and £720 to pref. shareholders
reserves benefited by £58,094.
Investment in land and buildings
increased from £610,340 to £705,997.
Gross additions to plant and fittings cost
£68,035.
Book debts rose by £25,722 to £244,634.
Stocks were lower. Creditors increased to
£164,271.
Reserves totalling £684,625 support
paid capital of £424,900. Net tangible
asset backing is £123 ss. Bd. for the 20s.
prefs. and £2 12s. lid. for the 20s. ords.


CONSTABLE & COMPANY
BW 0781
Member of the
SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE
25 O’Connell Street,
SYDNEY
CC2
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Delfin House,
16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building,
150 Queen St., Melbourne,
67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables:
“Rosdale,” Sydney, Melbourne
or Wollongong.
John N. Robertson, Thompson
and Co.
Members of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS,
Temple Court, 423 Little Collins St.,
Melbourne, C.l.
Telephones: 67 6154, 67 6155
Telegrams and Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
STOCK OPTIONS
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
Suite 1, Sixth Floor, Temple Court
422 Collins Street, Melbourne
Phone 67-8011
BRANCH OFFICES
SYDNEY: 383 George Street, 29-7865
ADELAIDE: 61 Gawler PL, 7-8407
BRISBANE: 334 Queen Street, 31-1621
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS
ALL OFFICES— “OPTIONS”
Write or Phone for Free Brochure
and Current Price Schedule.
FOR CALL OPTIONS
CALL STOCK OPTIONS
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your
fancy write to the Manager, who will
quote you a price for the original.
SPECULATOR'S DIARY
Monday, April 9
TX/’hile Elizabeth Taylor has been
making her contribution to Roman
history, Stanley Korman and the directors
of Steamships Trading have been earning
their place in local financial history.
Never has a stock given me such an
eventful ride in one week as has Steam-
ships. By Friday I practically needed
sedation.
After buying 200 Steamships at 525.
6d. immediately the takeover bid was
originally announced, I was sitting back
waiting for it to be revealed that W. R.
Carpenter had made an offer worth at
least 655. a share. Then, just as this diary
was going to Press last Monday, the camp
was thrown into confusion with news
that the bid had been mysteriously with-
drawn. The share price immediately slid
to 475. seller, no buyer. I consulted my
broker about this rather alarming situa-
tion and, in a moment of bravado, I
said I would buy some more if the price
came back into the low forties. At 10.30
next morning my broking friend rang,
almost gloatingly, to announce that they
were down to 41s. Did I still want to buy
some more? Weakly, I said, “Yes, get
200 more up to 425.” After all at this
price they looked cheap in their own
right yielding 6 p.c. and, besides, more
often than not rejection of a takeover bid
leads to a new bid or a defensive bonus
issue. I was lucky enough to get the 200
additional shares at 41s. which at least
brought my average price down to 465.
9d. The same afternoon the price began
to climb again on news that the takeover
bid, still unidentified, had been withdrawn
only after it had been rejected by the
directors. This began to put a different
complexion on things.
Wednesday finally brought news that
the bidder was in fact W. R. Carpenter
but that the offer was worth only 58s. or
595. At the same time Steamships’
directors spoke of reconstructing the com-
pany’s capital, certainly with a split into
ss. units and with the suggestion of a
bonus issue. This soon had the salutary
effect of putting the shares back up to
525. 6d. at which price I thought it
would be prudent to unload all 400 shares.
Maybe Carpenters will bid again, though
I doubt it. And any bonus issue is not
likely to make the shares worth much
more than 525. 6d.
The whole exercise proved to be an
excellent test of share market strategy —
and nerves. And in the process I made a
very good (if lucky) profit of £B2.
It would have been a very dull week
without the steamboat adventure. The
market generally continued to vacillate
and I was more than grateful that I’d shed
my A.O.G. shares and rights the previous
week. A real disappointment was South-
gate’s revelation that the Hotel Sydney
is now losing money. Or is Southgate
just playing politics with the City
Council over the lease which comes up for
renewal in October? I suppose I should
sell these but for the time being I’m not.
The week’s transactions had already
provided me with £823 in cash, more than
half of which I spent on 500 Ready
Mixed Concrete. Ready Mixed reported
a 90 p.c. profit increase in the latest half-
year but the analysts all seem to be dis-
counting this on the grounds that the
earning rate on much higher capital this
year will not be maintained. I think
they’re wrong. Look at it this way. Last
year Ready Mixed declared a net profit
of just under £1,200,000. This included
profits of Australian Blue Metal for the
second half of the financial year only.
At the most A.B.M.’s contribution would
have been £200,000, judging by the
£260,000 it earned in the whole of the
previous year. So without A.8.M.,
Ready Mixed’s net profit last year would
have been somewhere about £1,000,000.
A 90 p.c. increase in profits for the current
year would mean a total figure of some-
thing like £1,900,000, equal to 23 p.c. on
capital. Not only would this maintain
last year’s rate but it is likely to be at
least as good as the earning rates of its
principal competitors, Blue Metal and
Pioneer, whose shares are selling at 225.
or 235. There’s something wrong some-
where. Let’s hope it’s not in my
calculations!
BOUGHT
200 Steamships Trading at 41/- £4lB
500 Ready Mixed at 17/9 .. £454
SOLD
400 Steamships Trading at 52/6 £1035
These moves left me with £369 and
these shares:
Cost Cnr-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Priee
300 Hornibrook 4/3/61 23/- 2S/6
400 O’Donnell
Grifflin 28/S/61 11/S 15/-
800 Southgate 6/11/G1 8/G 7/6
1,000 United Motels 20/11/G1 3/6 3/9
1,000 Harris Hold-
ings 5/12/61 7/- 8/6
200 Hunter Douglas
notes 21/2/62 36/- 40/-
200 Beau Monde 8/12/61 25/- 32/-
500 Fibre Con-
tainers 13/12/61 17/6 19/-
400 W. J. Manufac-
turing 24/1/62 11/9 12/9
400 Auto and General
Finance S/2/62 19/9 23/-
300 Mauri Bros 16/2/02 22/6 23/-
100 F. W. Williams 20/2/62 36/6 35/6
1,000 Mid-Eastern
rights 22/2/62 1/-
200 Penfolds Wines 2/3/62 9/3
400 Anderson Meat 2/3/62 12/ 13/6
400 Ivandos 9/3/02 21/- 22/-
500 Peters 15/3/62 S/2 8/7
100 Philip Morris 16/3/62 26/- 25/3
800 Goodwins 21/3/62 5/9 5/7
500 Peter Lloyd 21/3/62 5/6 5/9
500 Ready Mixed 6/4/62 17/9 17/9


Source:
Australian Wool
Bureau
Quality
Classification
Week
Week
Opening
Week
Closing
Week
Week
Centres Selling
Bradford
Knded
Ended
1961-62
1960-61
Ended
Standard
6/4/62
Change
80/3/62
7/7/61
30/6/61
24/3/61
0/4/62
bombing —
d.
1.
d.
d.
d.
d.
Sydney Geelong
d. d
70s’ Good
129
/2
127
122
125
115
12!)
Average
125
-2
123
117
120
110
125 125
64’s Good
122
-1
121
114
117
107
121 123
Average
118
-1
117
109
112
106
117 119
60’s Good
108
+ 1
107
104
108
101
— 109
Average
105
par
105
101
104
100
104 106
58’s Good
97
+ 1
96
97
101
94 .
98
Average
56’s Good
94
par
94
95
98
93
93 96
92
par
92
95
97
91
93
Average
90
Par
90
92
94
90
89 91
50’s Good
98
-1
S4
92
93
87
83
Average
80
-1
81
90
91
86
81 80
Carding—
Merino
47
-2
49
49
48
55
46 —
Comeback
46
-2
48
49
48
53
45 —
Fine Crossbred
46
-2
48
51
51
55
45 —
Med. Crossbred
46
-2
48
52
52
57
45 —
Sales Brisbane, Melbourne, April
30 to May
3.
Ballarat sold April 2
but
quantity
1
1
I
for weekly
average
prices.
THE MAN
ON THE
LAND
A WORD FOR THE GOAT
By M. H. ELLIS
Tn the realm of ingratitude, the Austra-
x ban goat would win the grand cham-
pionship over all other animals in any
show-ring in the Commonwealth.
No animal did more for the establish-
ment of the civilisation of this country
than those two pioneers, Billy and Nanny,
who arrived with the First Fleet and set
the standards for philosophical cairn,
usefulness and power to survive in the
days of pristine starvation.
At Cape Town before the First Fleet
reached Australia, everybody who had a
place in his ship to stow it invested in
some animal life a cow, some sheep,
poultry, pigs and goats. Seven months
after settlement began, not much was
left of the contents of the Fleet’s Noah’s
Ark. The sheep got under trees and were
struck by lightning—or so their shepherds
said. Most of the cattle paired off two
and two and sought fresh fields at Cam-
den where they were found, much in-
creased and multiplied, many years
afterwards.
But the goat stayed at home and
flourished, and was a comfort to the
lean and ragged settlers in their hunger.
It lived off whatever was offering. Its
meat when it died was appreciated. Its
milk saved many a starveling convict and
military child. Six months after the
landing it proved the wisdom of the
knowing and experienced Marines who
were mostly responsible for bringing
goats out ; and for a century and a half,
until the Great Depression, it was the
poor man’s cow and carrier, the starveling
babe's foster-mother, the Sunday dinner,
the small boy’s racehorse.
As a possession the goat was faithful
and did not need branding. It was usu-
ally other people’s cabbage gardens that
it seemed to eat. Milk another man’s cow
and you found yourself in a dock ; milk
another man's goat and you were wel-
come.
The Yearbook statistics ignored the
goat. It cost nothing to keep. It flourished
when every other animal was starved out.
It was a cleaner-up of rubbish. It did not
mind being harnessed, even with straps
made from the skins of its own breed.
It would go anywhere. It was a cheerful
beast of burden. It raced zestfully with
a billy cart or with a small boy jockey.
Kick a billygoat and he laughed at you.
If you travelled, he would follow the dray
and be there with his nannies to be
milked in the evening. He was the most
faithful servant of man Australia knew.
what was his reward? University
students wrote rude songs about him.
("Mary had a William goat whose
stomach was lined with zinc.’") His very
name was a synonym for stupidity,
though in fact he is a savant beside a
sheep. When a little civilisation got into
the country, town councils barred him
here, barred him there, made rules about
him that no other animal ever provoked.
And almost universally, the male of his
species, lordly, blue and of noble horn,
was generally named Stinker.
The only goat-classic in Australian
story concerns the sad tale of Stepper
Davis, a noted, stuttering Queensland
bookmaker, who was unwisely tempted
to make a book on the Longreach Goat
Derby and who, the following week, ex-
plained why he had broken the record to
Cunnamulla several hundred miles awav.
"They all bet on the s-s-omething
favorite, St-st-inker. And when the
i-r-race was r-run, I found everything in
it w-was named St-st-inker, so I sl-slunk
off.”
Jn plain fact, this is rank injustice, for
the goat is Australia's only disease-free
animal. If every other beast of the field
or farm were as clean, animal life would
be falling off the edges of the continent
in millions.
There is no gratitude in humanity. We
maligned the goat. We treated him, when
he had done his job of feeding the
pioneers, providing with milk richer by
far than cow milk, traction and diversion,
as the subject for ribald folksongs when
alive.
And then when the great depression
came and he was the only living thing
left on the rocky hillsides of Queensland
mining towns and elsewhere, we ate him.
It is singular how little notice the
goats' passing attracted. He had been a
natural feature of the life of all country
towns and suburbs in pioneering days.
Then civilisation and human hunger
wiped him out and nobody seemed to
notice.
Now, however, with the disappearance
of the mining towns and the railway
camps that spread the goat over Aus-
tralia, there are fewer goats here in 1962
than there were in 1830. And though
occasionally there have been upsurges of
numbers in the Angora and other special
breeds of goats, the old British-African
cross goat with his blue and mixed col-
orings has disappeared entirely from
many districts where formerly the flocks
roamed in hundreds.
Latterly, any attempts to conserve the
goat have been made to serve the need for
goats' milk, and have been confined
mainly to the Swiss Saanen and Toggen-
burg : Alpine species, which are heavy
milkers. The NSW Department of Agri-
culture has given sporadic attention to
goat rearing at its experimental farms,
particularly at Condobolin. and several
hundred breeders operate in a small way.
There is even a Goat Herd Book with
several thousand entries registered, and
it is possible to order goats' milk from
the dairy suppliers in Sydney. And “The
WEEKLY AVERAGE CLEAN WOOL PRICES


BANK-VAULT PROTECTION
FOR FREIGHT
When consigning interstate by rail YES.
The impregnable sj-ton capacity steel L.C.L. containers
are mobile bank vaults.
More, you can do your own packing at your factory in
these weather-proof, pilfer-proof containers and have them
delivered right to the consignee's door!
Lifting lugs enable cranes to handle these containers onto
motor trucks and rail wagons. No further handling
necessary.
For fast safe economical interstate delivery,
consign by steel L.C.L. containers.
Ring MA 7861 to have a Commercial Agent call and discuss
your freight problem or write the Commercial Manager
(Special Services Section), Department of Railways,
Sydney Station.
NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT
RAI LWAYS
Australian Goat World” is not a political
journal!
But the demand for goats’ milk is
limited and specialist, and the customers
are mostly baby clinics, invalids served
on prescription, and faddists. The milch
goat which provides the market is a
pampered import, fed like a dairy cow.
But the day of the typical Australian
goat may yet come back. Knowing
Western Australians are already exploiting
the Asiatic demand in the oil-rich and
meat-hungry Arab areas round the
Persian Gulf. One these told me some
time ago that in Kuwait an Australian
goat is worth £8 of our money. And cer-
tainly the Asiatic likes the lean meat of
the goat much better than farm-bred
mutton. Moreover, he likes to buy his
meat on the hoof and the goat is a hardy
marine tourist.
The goat seems worth reconsidering
as stock for hilly, poor country where
no other animal has a chance of survival.
The export possibilities need more
investigation.
THE FARMER IS REALLY WORKING
XTave you city-folk ever envied the
cow and sheep cocky his “easy life”
down on the farm? Ever remarked that
the farmer “really has a pretty easy
time?”
Well, if you have . . . here is a figure
to make you think. In just over 20 years
rural production in Australia has risen
by 57 per cent, with virtually no altera-
tion in the number of people employed.
In other words, every one of our “lazy”
farmers is producing half as much again
as he, or his father, did 20 years ago.
Productivity has actually risen by
nearly 3 p.c. per year per man. Without
this increase in efficiency, an extra 250,000
workers would have been needed to
achieve the same output.
Professor J. N. Lewis, Professor of
Agricultural Economics at the University
of New Zealand, told a Canberra con-
ference of the Australian Institute of
Agricultural Science the other day that
a large part of the production increase
stemmed from the work of agricultural
scientists. Other contributions had been
the increased use of machinery, fertilisers,
etc.
Professor Lewis pointed out that many
of agricultural science’s most spectacular
contributions such as myxomatosis,
the cactoblastis and correction of trace
element deficiencies —had cost the farmer
very little.
Possibly equally important had been
the work of agricultural scientists in
maintaining existing levels of produc-
tivity against the inroads of pests and
diseases.
He said whole industries would have
ceased to exist in Australia, with disas-
trous capital losses for all involved, but
for the intervention of agricultural
science.
Control of bunchytop in bananas and
development of vines resistant to
phylloxera were but two examples.
NEXT-BUTTER POWDER
T}ACH morning and evening throughout
■*“' Australia about three million cows
amble into milking sheds and deliver,
over a year, more than 1300 million
gallons of milk.
CSIRO, with an unscientific penchant
for the eye-catching statistic, points out
that 1300 million gallons would cover
100 acres to a depth of 50ft.
Eighty-seven per cent, of all this milk
is water, but the remaining 13 per cent,
represents an enormous quantity of
human food in the form of fat, sugar,
protein, minerals and vitamins.
Unfortunately the by-product from
butter-making, skim milk, contains almost
all the milk solids except the fat and is
thus a potential source of valuable food
substances.
In Australia at present —and through-
out the world, for that matter —much of
the skim milk and whey is wasted entirely.
This is where CSIRO’s dairy research
section at Highett, Victoria, comes in.
The section, supported by dairy industry
research funds, is engaged on a constant
search for new food forms designed to
achieve the more effective use of these
food substances.
Latest discovery to come out of this
corner of CSIRO's “Aladdin’s Cave’ is
powdered butter.
Powdered butter is a spray-dried dairy
product with the same fat content as
ordinary butter (82 per cent.). It also
contains 15 per cent, milk protein and a
proportion of added minerals.
Powdered butter cannot be turned into
normal butter merely by adding water. It
can, however, be used with advantage for
many purposes —such as ice cream, cake
mixes, white sauce and frying batter —
because of the ease with which the powder
can be mixed with other ingredients.
Further points in its favor, CSIRO says,
are the significant protein content (butter
contains virtually no protein) and the fact
that it does not melt in hot weather. This
latter point should make it popular in
hot climates.
Because the spray-drying process is
more expensive than churning, powdered
butter will not be cheaper than ordinary
butter. But it contains a wholesome,
inexpensive protein and is more con-
venient for some purposes.
Whether or not it will become an
important food will probably depend on
its price when it reaches the shops and
the strength and effectiveness of the
dairy industry’s promotion.


REVIEWS
IV
COMMONPLACE AS HESSIAN
The Bulletin Bards. University of the
Air. A.B.C. Sydney.
Tn Sydney recently a department store
was fined for misrepresenting some
ties as rayon in its advertising. In fact
they were silk. If the same principle
was applied in television we might find the
ABC’s “University of the Air” quickly
retitled “Adult Education Lectures”
and the potential audience enlarged. The
series is neither as frightening nor as
frightful as it sounds. In fact it is often
as commonplace as hessian.
If a larger audience was attracted,
however, the ABC might have to extend
some of the more interesting lectures
from 30 minutes to one hour, depriving
its viewers of such valuable items as
“Meet Us in London Italians” (the
Italian community adapting to the Eng-
lish way of life), or an episode of “Rogue
Herries” (BBC serial from Hugh Wal-
pole’s novel).
These two programmes bracketed a
recent UOTA haif-hour devoted to a
review of “The Bulletin Bards” on Chan
nel 2 in Sydney. Within his allotted time
the lecturer, Stuart Lee, tried to say-
something about Archibald, Stephens,
Paterson, Ogilvy, Lawson, Dyson, Boake,
O'Dowd and a few others who were
local giants in their time, though ad-
mittedly not yet sanctified by the BBC.
The little that Mr Lee did manage
to say in the time was not helped by
such occasional adjectives as “circum-
locutious” to describe the style of the
early Bulletin’s contemporaries, nor a
statement that Barcroft Boake was a
“bush narrative writer”, hardly true even
of the last few of Boake’s 27 years,
when his vision shifted from England
to Australia, and the harsh reality over-
came him.
Mr Lee handled the narrative and
showed his viewers some Phil May
caricatures and some timeworn copies
of The Bulletin. The recitative was left
to Lynne Murphy and Stewart Ginn,
and a mouldy fig collection it was,
leaving one with the impression that “The
Bulletin Bards” were a laughable lot.
One snatch of O'Dowd that I noted
this time delivered by Mr Lee was
addressed to Australia, said to have “a
virgin helpmate ocean at your knees.”
The ABC’s miserly time allowance for
this subject was not the only fault
evident. Both time and selection deni-
grated the Bards, if that is the definitive
word for Lawson and others. Glimpses
can damn a hero and enshrine a fool.
One then has to question intent.
Toward the end of the half-hour, Mr
Lee opened a creaking door when he
showed us a galley proof of one of
Barcroft Boake’s poems, with A. G.
Stephens's attempts to improve it written
on the margin. The author’s words were
poetry. His editor’s were tosh. Mr Lee
added that Stephens had eventually let
Boake's lines stand, but now who could
help wondering how many times the
opposite occurred, how much inferior
Stephens was forced into The Bulletin’s
poetry during his ten years here?
In fact, in the space of some two
minutes, viewers who may have heard of
Stephens as the one worthy literary critic
Australia has had were given every reason
to doubt it, whatever else Stuart Lee
averred in favor of the man - mostly
that he welded two opposed literary
forces into one happy family.
In the same glimpse, many who had
scant knowledge of Boake, or knew that
he is not rated, must have been hurled
into quandary, where the ABC will un-
doubtedly leave them for the next 50
years. Was Boake really a minor poet of
his time?
My point is that many of the people
mentioned in “The Bulletin Bards”,
from Becke to Boake, would be well worth
a half-hour. The Mitchell Library in Syd-
ney is bulging with graphic material
which, in the right hands, could draw'
large numbers of viewers away from
“Bonanza” and other trans-Pacific sagas.
As commercial television proved, in
its fine hour with Ned Kelly, Australiana
can be fascinating entertainment on the
small screen. Perhaps even more so than
how Italians adapt to life in Britain, or
why Herries became Rogue. Or does
Australiana, in some eyes, have the great
disadvantage of being Australian?
FRANK ROBERTS
FILMS
SOMETHING NOBLE
The World of Apu. Gala. Sydney.
Oeven years ago Indian director
Satyajit Ray’s first film, “Pather
Panchali”, won the Grand Prix at the
Cannes Film Festival and went on to win
a swag of other awards. Film critics
became excitedly aware of an outstanding
new talent in an unexpected quarter,
especially when the sequel to “Panchali”,
“Aparajito”, did the prize-winning festival
round in its turn.
“The World of Apu”. the third part of
the trilogy that began with “Panchali”,
is the first to have commercial release
here, and it comes now as a rather
distant echo of that earlier excitement.
At least four of Ray’s films (including
“Apu” itself) have had film festival show-
ing here, some of them lacking subtitles
and appearing as vaguely impressive but
rather baffling works of art as a conse-
quence. “Apu'’ is subtitled, and its
setting—mainly urban life in Calcutta —
is not too exotic for a European audi-
ence to make contact with. Despite some
passages of rather tedious self-pity (which
might not seem like that at all to an
Indian) it is still impressive, the work of
a deeply sensitive, compassionate and
observant artist.
For sensibility and humanity there is
not a Western director that one would
confidently place before Satyajit Ray.
Technically, his style is unpretentious
but exactly suited to his purpose. His
narrative has a deliberate, Asiatic pace,
his visuals find poetry in realism without
ever glossing or sentimentalising that
realism.
His trilogy comes from a famous
Bengali novel by Bibhuti Bhusan. The
two earlier parts have traced Apu’s


country childhood and schooldays; at
the opening of this film he is a young
man, educated and intellectually
ambitious but penniless and still a trifle
innocent, living in a Calcutta slum and
trying to write a great novel out of his
limited experience of life.
At the invitation of a well-to-do friend
he goes to a wedding in the country.
There is a tragi-comic upset: the bride-
groom turns out to be a lunatic, the
bride’s relatives are in despair because a
cancelled wedding is thought to bring a
curse, so they select Apu as the substitute
bridegroom. Apu at first rejects the idea
as “medieval”, then submits, explaining
awkwardly that it may give him a feeling
of doing something noble.
Apu takes his garlanded bride back to
his grimy lodging over the railway yards
in Calcutta ; slowly they overcome their
awkwardness and fall in love. The
domestic scenes that follow make the
most beautiful and touching section of the
whole film. Much of its effectiveness is
due to Ray’s unaffected artistry, but much
of the credit must also go to the two
players, Soumitra Chatterjee as the eager,
intelligent but vulnerable Apu, Sarmila
Tagore as the wife-tender and sub-
missive, yet capable of unexpected turns
of whimsicality and firmness.
There is an undercurrent of conflict,
scarcely expressed between the two worlds
Apu and his wife represent —Apu’s
modern, striving, Westernised world and
his wife’s background of comfortable
traditionalism. But the marriage does not
last long enough for this conflict to break
the surface. Apu’s wife dies giving birth
to their first child.
Apu’s grief is violent and prolonged.
He refuses to go near his son, whom he
blames for his wife’s death, but wanders
away in search of an elusive peace of
mind. He scatters the leaves of his
immature novel from a cliff-top.
These long-drawn representations of
grief seem to be in the nature of Asian
cinema (as witness Kurosawa’s “Living”),
but European, or at any rate Anglo-
Saxon, audiences are used to more
restrained feasts of sorrow, and although
this episode is structurally the climax of
the film I found it came less close to the
heart than the gentler scenes that preceded
it.
But there is no question of the strength
and breadth of Catterjee’s performance.
In these later passages he brilliantly
develops the eager boyish character of the
early scenes into one of sombre and
embittered maturity.
The last episode describes Apu’s return
and his slow and painful reconciliation
with his son. The film ends on a note of
muted optimism.
MARTIN LONG
ART
THIS SIDE OF PARADISE
Modern Japanese Woodblock Prints.
The Macquarie Galleries. Sydney.
r T' I HE remarkable thing about this show
is not only the prints themselves
but the way someone, no doubt with
Consulate help, managed to penetrate
Customs red tape in order that they be
shown at all. Ganymed and Sid Nolan
set another ball rolling with his new litho-
graphs. Let us hope the time will come
when the regulations governing the
importation of works of art will be lifted,
and more exhibitions as stimulating as
this admitted.
In many respects the Japanese print
has been closer to the visual art of the
West than any other Asian art form.
Their influence on the Impressionists of
the 1870 s and later on the post-impress-
ionists was profound. Western influence
destroyed the traditional Ukiyo-ye and
later helped revive it under the impact
of a new-found abstraction. An impulse
towards technical experiment has given
the modern Japanese woodblock print a
decided facelift. Abstraction is not new
to Japan, her culture has from time to
time raised it to great heights. This
explains why artists from Ben Nicholson
to Mathieu are well received and under-
stood there, and why Sugai is feted in
Paris. The current international mode
Feiffer
LIKF eittHBOW OLAF I AJA4
A SOCIALIST me M I WA6
110 coae&e puieiuo
TH6 mtfiFF- Va
'ioumtn fome"
'<mmz thf AJmeeif '
weemou) rue eotm-
1 MgfJT F"
I iFAF A LlBLFAL I» I 60T
our OF COLLF&F IU TtfF
TweriK* - *ueo) pfal zemew
"COdM .WITH Ak)P 0UST”
"up thl c.i-a*
I (JAG A C0MMUUI5T
puriijs tkc •
'(AllTFP FW\j\K
'FR££ FAFL %
geodes"
'JAIL THc
r^mre^,:
I WAF A pope PU5iU6 TH6
FIFTiFA - " BUT I PIPW'T FFALiZP"
°THPf U$Fl? MF-'
"ILL MP/Oe OIOM
AW<TfHlfU6 A6AiO-“ '
MV mow [0 M sixties I’m ,
A CODAFRl/ATlVA- '
"KFFP Ffp CHlkJA 0UT OF THF u.m."<
" CU0A"
'up 6afrm 6olcuMoe.*
ITS MOV 10 MO
r'M snu iw
with rne
CouCbt lavs. '


meets on the common ground of abstract
art but whereas the US variety of abstract
expressionism retains its love-hate con-
nection with mechanicistic culture, the
Japanese in their truest moments con-
template the intangibles of a pre-
Westernised Japan. If the forms are
different now the spirit is essentially the
same. It is evident in their feeling for
Notan, the play of super-subtle color
and texture, and their awareness of flat
shape. Almost invariably subdued, these
elements suggest an attempt to mirror
rather than master reality, through
quiescent meditation with its subsequent
effect in refinement of technique. The
forms in the two Hideo Hagiwara “Stone
Flower” prints have become evanescent
to the point of vapor, yet take the plunge
into new dimensions in quest of sartori.
Whether this approach achieves greater
spirituality than the vigorous statements
of a Hiroshige, remains an open question.
Rather, they look back to the exquisitely
mysterious Kwaunons of the 13th
century. Like others in this collection
they succeed in leaving the earth as it
were without quite reaching paradise.
Suggestions of spatial depth enliven
the multiple viewpoints of Hashimoto's
“Garden with Stepping Stones” and
Masaji Yoshida’s rhythmic edged “Moss
No. 1”. Unmistakably traditional in
form, Goro Kumagai’s sensitive handling
carries his image far ; it is the same rich
sense of continuity combined with tech-
nical inventiveness which supports the
Yamagushis and the Shinagawas. Chizuko
Yoshida's tachist flowers called “Impres-
sion of an Arab” self-consciously assimi-
late European ideas. Others who
grapple with the problems of objective
Western vision seem little more successful
than a beatnik struggling with his first
koans. Nakayami, Shimagui, Mizafune,
Kikodoro, Kumagai and Tajimar all con-
tribute towards the excellent level of
this show. One can but envy the immense
skill in the handling of the woodblock
that seems second nature to these print-
makers.
J. HENSHAW
DECEPTIVELY EASY
Thomas Gleghorn. Johnstone Gallery.
Brisbane.
'T'homas Gleghorn’s second show in
A Brisbane differs considerably and
significantly from his first, which was
almost solely abstract. In this show of
65 works, about 45 are small realist
landscapes, lOin. by Bin. ; the rest are
abstract. The former are so marvellously
done that there is no doubt about Gleg-
horn’s endearing and portentous talent,
while the latter seem to lack the confi-
dence formerly so patent. Let us look at
them first. Not infrequently, his abstract
work has links, tenuous but perceptible,
with reality. But like all works in this
very limited field, he was tied up in a
very narrow range of expression so that,
in spite of tendentious labels inviting the
spectator to view the work in a certain
fixed mood, the pictures were mostly imi-
tations of each other and of lots of other
people’s: what a distinguished French
critic wrote of as “les inlassables repe-
titions de la peinture informelle inter-
nationale.” Any intellectual appeal or
meaning, just as important to me as the
aesthetic, is washed out to be replaced
by empty conventional symbols of a
petulant revolt against other conventions
already dead anyway. A man like Gleg-
horn is wasting his time on simple color
combinations, however pretty they may
be: it is like trying to write a searching
psychological novel or play in “pidgin.”
The validity of this point of view is
proved by the exquisite quality of the
miniature landscapes. Their texture and
color are smooth and enchanting, appar-
ently simple in composition but actually
works of considerable difficulty. This
curious individual dexterity is apparent
in his small drawings seen in his first
show here, so perfect as to appear de-
ceptively easy. 1 should think the pic-
tures are put straight on to the paper
without any preliminary sketch, in such
a small compass and in such perfection
as to be incredible as a technical feat
alone. The various forms of the land-
scape are beautifully expressed with a
sure hand by simple gradations of tone
even when the prevailing color is low-
toned. The radiating ridges on a wind-
blown sandhill (No. 53) are expressed in
a way which is inexpressibly lo'ely,
Cezanne did not do better ; the ridges
on the dunes are done with the precision
of a mechanical drawing without its
purely rectangular quality. In another
work the tiny variations in structure and
color on the face of a grey granite out-
crop are incredibly fine and precise, and
so on through the whole 45 pieces. It is
not just technical cleverness but expressed
with a fine tenderness. I have not seen
here before anything quite like this.
Gleghorn is undoubtedly a consider-
able artist with still greater achievement
to come: it will be tender, grave and
genuinely felt if given from the immedi-
ate impact of Nature on his conscious
mind. In any case such exquisite skill
as he possesses is wasted on formless
masses of color and cross hatching in
random brushstrokes.
J. V. DU[?]G
THEATRE
TRAGEDY
The Dybbuk. Solomon Ansky. Gar-
rison Theatre. Sydney.
can explain, but cannot explain
A away, the notion of the inhabitation of
a body by another soul. As a dramatic
device, it has never lost appeal. The
Greeks had their gods walking the earth
in the bodies of ordinary men, the Eliza-
bethans, Dostoievsky, Shaw, Arthur Mil-
ler, Chayevsky, and the latest, John
Whiting, have all exploited the notion of
“possession” with greater or less de-
liberate symbolic intent. Some 30 years
ago, the Polish writer Solomon Ansky,
put an old folk-tale directly on the stage
as “The Dybbuk.” Here the lovers, pre-
destined for marriage, are kept apart by
the girl’s father, who prefers a wealthier
suitor for his daughter. The distracted
lover seeks supernatural aid, and in death
becomes a Dybbuk, a wandering soul
who enters the body of his beloved, only
to be cast out by Rabbinical Law. The
lovers can only be joined in death.
But “The Dybbuk” is not a bitter play ;
there is a breadth of magnificent tragedy
about it in the characters of the lovers,
and the Rabbi Azrael ; there is rich
comedy with the professional prayermen,
and the beadle of the synagogue ; a great
deal of joyous affirmation with the young
companions of the ill-fated daughter. The
beggars who dance and eat at the pre-
wedding celebration accept the unequal
provision from the rich man’s table with
an easy nonchalance.
If Kevon Kemp’s production did not
suggest the sweep and breadth of “The
Dybbuk,” it was because of a failure to
give due weight to these three aspects,
tragedy, comic relief, and, through it all,
joyous affirmation of life. The brooding
half-light in which the play was set did
not give the lighter elements a chance to
contrast. The comic scenes were all set
up-stage, and dominated as they were by
one or other of the tragic figures
brooding heavily in full view, they lost
any enthusiasm they might have for
simple light-heartedness. The parables
provided by the functionaries in the
synagogue were not pointed towards the
action of the play, because of a uniform
ponderousness of delivery which gave
equal significance to each. The Mes-
senger, a chorus-like figure, was too dis-
tant from the centre of the play.
But the play did not lack cohesion. As
Leah, the unhappy daughter, Kathleen
Kennedy provided a sustained and mov-
ing characterisation. If she failed to sug-
gest an early innocent maidenish disap-
pointment in contrast to her later tragic
despair, we feel that this was dictated by
the context. In this production, there was
no room for anything less than tragedy.
JOHN CROYSTON


THE RED PAGE
APPRENTICES TO THE WEST
By JOHN QUINLEM
Y\/hen a book on Japan is basically
correct, you then have to judge it by
its omissions. Western readers have the
most rudimentary gaps in their know-
ledge, and even specialists are apt to mis-
interpret what they know accord-
ing to Western pre-suppositions. Mr
Whittemore* purports to give a back-
ground to his case study, but he fails to
give anything like a total picture.
“The Press in Japan Today” is a
criticism of the emotions of Japanese
urban neutralism through a survey of
the attitudes of the three main Japanese
newspapers, the “Asahi,” the “Mainichi”
and the “Yomiuri”, whose total daily
circulation of 19,000,000 constitutes half
the national daily circulation. The period
taken is that of the demonstrations fol-
lowing the ratification of the new Japan-
USA Mutual Security Treaty on May
19, 1960, leading to the cancellation of
President Eisenhower’s proposed visit, on
June 17, 1960. Whittemore says quite
rightly that the three papers, in their
opposition to the Treaty and to Presi-
dent Eisenhower’s visit, represented
urban and not national opinion, and
points out that the Liberal-Democratic
party continued in office until the
elections of November 1960 when its
majority was in fact increased. But
oddly, he mentions nowhere in the
book that the pressure of urban opinion
was sufficient to have the Liberal-Demo-
cratic party replace the Kishi Cabinet
by one led by Premier Ikeda on the
15th July, 1960, or less than a month
after the Treaty became law.
Let me explain myself more closely.
The Liberal-Democratic party, the con-
servative party of Japan, is led by the
business and bureaucatic Establishment
of the great cities, but can depend on the
bulk of the votes from the rural areas.
As Mr Whittemore puts it, the peasant
votes Liberal-Democrat “automatically”.
Some Australians ask themselves whether
the Japanese still want war; they talk to
English-speaking Japanese in Tokyo and
Osaka, and come back here saying that
the destruction of their cities by the
B-29s and the profound psychological
effect of the two atomic bombs have
made the Japanese strongly pacifist. But
if they look at the years 1930-41, it was
the army which then pressurised through
a war policy, against the reluctance of
other groups of society, and with the use
of direct forms of intimidation, such as
assassination. Now the army was to a
special degree representative o* the
countryside, of small landowners and
peasants. Its ethos was specifically anti-
urban, and it was the only sector of
society in which peasants, lacking a
secondary education, could reach the
highest positions. From the commence-
ment of the modernisation of Japan in
1870 the peasant was specially conceived
as the backbone of the army and the
bearer of the ancient virtues.
/'Tause 9 of the MacArthur-sponsored
National Constitution adopted in 1947
states: “ . . . the Japanese people for-
ever renounce war as a sovereign right
of the nation ... therefore land, sea and
air forces as well as other war potential
will never be maintained . . .” It is no
exaggeration to say that the greatest
political disappointment to idealistic
Japanese was the speed with which the
exigencies of the Cold War led the United
States to try to manoeuvre around this
clause. Public opinion kept the new armed
force to a maximum of about 250,000
men, and owing to the constitution it
had to be designated, first as the National
Safety Force, (the new army was called
the National Police Reserve!) and then,
as the Self-Defence Forces. One condi-
tion of the new US treaty is that these
forces will be expanded, but I think many
military experts will agree that no more
than a 50 per cent, expansion, at most,
(but with some modernisation of equip-
ment) would be necessary to make the
invasion of a country like Japan simply
not worth the trouble to an aggressor.
Whittemore does not mention the par-
ticular prudential criticism of the treaty
made by the Japanese Press, which con-
cerned its fixed duration of ten years.
They said that the techniques of modem
warfare change so quickly that treaties
concerning the use of bases should be
open to adjustment every three or four
years. Whether the development of the
intercontinental missile makes the exis-
tence of American air and rocket bases
in Japan in addition to those on Okinawa
unnecessary, or dangerous to Japan, I
cannot say. The Japanese have been
conscious that the airfields around
Vladivostock are only 700 miles from
Tokyo for the last thirty years. In a
sense the treaty favors Japan in that
America must help Japan if she is
attacked, but not vice-versa.
“The Press in Japan today’’ is an
admirable survey of how anti-war and
anti-Kishi emotionality gripped the
Japanese Press and urban public in May
and June 1960. Kishi’s timing in forcing
the Treaty Bill through the Diet on May
19 was bold to the point of rashness.
The intensity of the furore over the
shooting down of the U-2 on May 2
(U-2s had been seen on US bases in
Japan for over a year), and Khrushchev’s
subsequent suspension of the Summit
talks were not unexpected of a country
where the desire for world peace is so
articulate. Whittemore says that Kishi
timed the passing of the bill to co-or-
dinate with Eisenhower’s visit, as a tactic
to strengthen his own position. He writes
of opposition to the treaty and to the
timing of Eisenhower’s visit in terms of
students and unionists. He doesn’t men-
tion the mounting opposition of, for in-
stance, Christian groups. Rather more
than one-quarter of the electorate signed
petitions against the treaty, and if we
regard the peasant’s acceptance of
paternalism as political inertness, we
have to admit that the vast bulk of poli-
tically conscious people were in opposi-
tion.
r T I HE Mutual Security Treaty would de-
mand of Japan that it play its logical
part in the Cold War. We have to face
the fact that to many Japanese this is
equivalent, say, to asking Finland to join
Nato. Whether they are right or wrong
is irrelevant. As Whittemore points out,
a formal appearance of give-and-take
between opposing groups is necessary in
Japanese political life, and in this sense,
Kishi completely ignored basic convic-
tions. You can regret the doctrinaire
neutralism of the Socialists (but can an
Australian really say this with smug-
ness?), and regret that the more em-
pirical Democratic Socialists are weak in
numbers. Leading members of Kishi’s
own party stayed away from the voting.
The Democratic Socialists joined the
Socialists in their deliberate obstructive-
ness, and that Kishi had to use 500 police
to expel them from the House and thus
get the bill passed suggests that it is not
only by Japanese conventions that he
should have made some accommodation
to their violent convictions. The British
try to make foreign policy bi-partisan,
and a British Prime Minister might well
have hesitated in equivalent circum-
stances.
In his conclusion, Whittemore regrets
the abandonment by the non-right forces
of moderation and deliberation in favor
*The Press in Japan today: a Case
Study. Edward P. Whittemore. Uni-
versity of South Carolina Press. 30s.


of demonstrations as a revival of the idea
of direct action as a legitimate means of
changing the social order. He says that
this would lead to a revival of older
customs of assassination and violence.
He is quite right in saying this, but in
citing as his example the assassination of
Asanuma (Socialist leader), and the
attempts on the lives of Kawakami
(Socialist) and Kishi himself (both men
were wounded), he should mention at
the same time that these actions were
all committed by fanatics of the extreme
Right-wing. The Japanese think in terms
of personalities rather than principles,
and it is just barely possible that a con-
servative leader with a strong anti-war
record like Yoshida might have negotia-
ted an acceptable solution. Whittemore
does not mention that Kishi was a key
member of the Tojo Cabinet of 1941-44,
yet this fact itself arouses a strong irra-
tional antipathy among many anti-war
Japanese. Whittemore is scrupulously
fair in stressing that the demonstrations
were anti-Kishi, and not anti-Eisenhower
or anti-American.
T hope Americans do not interpret this
review as a typical Australian gripe
against Japanese rearmament. The Ameri-
can attitude to Japan is vastly more
mature than ours, just as it was in 1945.
But if non-communist Japanese genuinely
think that authoritarianism is still so
strong in some sections of Japanese
society that the liberal values may be
sacrificed to exigencies of the Cold War,
we should take notice of them. Japan’s
tenacious social structure was much less
affected by occupation and democratisa-
tion than we think there is no doubt
that as in the past the real powers are
exercised and the real decisions made
very much behind the scenes, and on a
collective basis. I am not censuring this,
but suggesting that often it needs a
Japanese to scent what is really hap-
pening.
Those of us who admire the Japanese
for their technological and aesthetic flair
cannot feel happy about American
generals who fantasy about arming the
“fightingest men in the Pacific” with
American firepower, and thus making
Asia safe against communism. Besides
what Asians may think of this, there may
be the world of difference between the
high morale of those who were brutalised
into ferocity by old-style Japanese army
methods and knew they were intended
to die for the Emperor and the National
Way, and the new-style Japanese soldier
of the present Self-Defence Force, who
wears civilian clothes when passing on
leave through the cities to his home in
the countryside, to avoid rude remarks.
It is typical of Australians to have
hated Japan utterly in 1945, to visit
Tokyo and Kyoto in 1962, and love her,
but with real knowledge or penetrating
understanding behind neither hatred nor
love. It is a poor commentary on us,
considering Japan’s contributions to the
Arts and Science’s, -that the only book by
a Japanese ever translated and published
in this country should be an account of
the Malayan campaign by Colonel Tsuji,
the most prominent militarist and most
popular public figure of the neo-
nationalist movements located in Japan’s
rural areas. The book carries a most cor-
. dial preface by the GOC Australian
troops in that campaign, and seems to
have been published because Australian
vanity was tickled by Colonel Tsuji’s
unintended implication that the Aus-
tralians could fight but the English
couldn’t.
The importance of Japan to us lies in
this fact: in the world today, most non-
European races have accepted the Euro-
pean mental division of the world into
white and non-white, and regard the pre-
sent time as a reassertion of the colored
races. This is rubbish. If the technologi-
cal developments of the last two centu-
ries had been implemented by East
Asians, I suppose the world’s peoples
would be seen as divided into light yellow
and non-light yellow, if by negroes into
black and non-black. To a Northern
Chinese, an Egyptian looks more like an
Englishman than an Indonesian looks
like himself, while anyone who examines
the speed of Japan's modernisation,
1870-1890, has to admit that the Japanese
and the European frequently react more
like each other than like, say, the
eternity-minded Indian. There is no such
thing as the “Asia” which certain Aus-
tralians are always babbling about. Now
while a few chauvinists like Colonel
Tsuji avow Pan-Asianism, basically the
Japanese disbelieve in the “Color Cur-
tain” because r they regard Western
civilisation as world' civilisation, and
themselves as part of it, as. apprentices
to it. Paradoxically, it also happens that
the traditional strains in their society are
more vital than those of any present
non-European society.
This is borne out by tests carried out
by Japanese social psychologists as to
which peoples the Japanese mentally
identify themselves with, and for whom
they feel a kinship. The Japanese feel
themselves closest to White Americans,
Frenchmen, Englishmen, and Germans,
in that order. Only to a lesser degree do
they identify themselves with the less
technically active Asians and Southern
Europeans, Indians, Italians, Siamese and
so on. The tests were made on lower
middle class persons, and findings do
not appear to vary between city and
country, or by region. Normally these
findings should give us comfort, caught
geographically in an Asia as mentally
blinkered by the white-non-white com-
plex as we are ourselves. But unfor-
tunately, the Japanese don’t group us
with the North Americans and North-
West Europeans. The four peoples they
identify themselves least of all with are
the Australians, American Negroes,
Russians, and Koreans. This is not a
question of our immigration policy
in this sphere the Japanese public has
been too pre-occupied in this century
with difficulties concerning civil rights
in the United States to notice us, and
they themselves are very chary of Korean
cheap labor. They are too reticent and
polite a people to be asked directly, but
it seems likely that an unfavorable repu-
tation spread through Japan from the
areas occupied by our troops in the post-
war period.
THAT CERTAIN BOOK
THE BOY WHO SMOKED
By MAX HARRIS
Tt was my fourth birthday. Aunty Ella
said, “your birthday present is hidden
in the big kitchen cupboard.” I scampered
to the cupboard, indifferently shoved aside
a luscious pink birthday cake, and
scrounging through a mountain of copies
of “The Border Watch” came to the
treasure which I knew of old was buried
among the newspapers ... a tattered
edition of “Cole’s Funny Picture Book.”
“Thank you, Aunty Ella” I said (I was
an abnormally polite little boy) and
hurtled off, leaving Mum and Aunty to
claw miserably at the grand pink cake.
The next year I had my own copy of
“Cole’s Funny Picture Book”, all mint
new. Mr E. W. Cole hadn’t grown a day
older, and the rainbow motif gleamed as
brightly as ever. Whatever I am now I
owe almost entirely to “Cole’s Funny
Picture Book.”
While the infant McAuley was rocking
in his cradle scoffing at naiveties in the
philosophical writings of Aquinas, while
the be-rompered Alec Hope eased the
gnawings of his tape worm in the school
grounds by correcting the scansion of
Dryden, the foundations of my simple
lovable character were being established
through the spectacular moralisings of
Mr E. W. Cole, whose bookshop was the
largest in the world (he had one million


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
osulljvam
ri, PTYLTO
TRAOrV s »«MAR*
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, .New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
"JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
BOOKHUNTER
Dept. “D,” Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
books, an orchestra playing daily, an
aquarium, and his premises occupied half
a Melbourne block).
Mr E. W. Cole was a prophetic old
soul ; and he risked both his money and
his self-esteem by anticipating the heli-
copter, a World Government movement,
naturopathic dietitics, and lung cancer
from cigarettes. But he doesn’t seem to
have anticipated the discoveries of that
offbeat Jewish gentleman, Herr Sigmund
Freud.
His book, the greatest seller in the his-
tory of Australian juvenile literature and
more a part of child’s heritage in pre-
-1939 Australia than “Alice in Wonder-
land”, is a rich repository of neurosis,
hysteria, traumatic nightmares, and
psychopathic sexual obsessions. Its sick
humor makes Ronald Searle seem as lily-
white as Albert Schweitzer. Personally I
loved the book.
Flagellation was a “Cole’s Funny Pic-
ture Book” specialty. One beloved picture
represented the Naughty Boy whipping
the daylights out of Our Poor Doggie.
One of Mr Cole’s most original concep-
tions was a Thrashing Machine for the
mass punishing of errant schoolboys. It
consisted of a monster carpet sweeper
roller, driven by a dirty great steam
boiler. A row of boys, locked in stocks,
have their rumps exposed to non-stop
agony, as the canes attached to the
roller thrash down. On the wall behind
this excellent machine was a list of school
rules which the naughty boys had
apparently breached. There seemed to be
about 8000 of them.
While little James McAuley no doubt
shrieked in his sleep over some of the
lesser sufferings from Dante’s “Inferno”,
simpler chaps like Randolph Stow and
myself were haunted by the image of an
educational hell-on-earth. The result was
that we became humanists, anti-militarists,
and anti-authoritarian, blind even to the
most reasoned arguments of Donald
Horne.
If our liberal humanism is to be
attributed to “Cole’s Funny Picture
Book”, so also is the practice of poetry.
Not for the four-year-old Randolph Stow
and the five-year-old Max Harris the kind
of introduction to the poetic profession
which inspired little seven-year-old Alec
at the Fort Street High School. ..
Gower’s “Confessio Amantis” was not in
our family library, nor was the
“Dunciad” on the shelf with the Beatrix
Potters. But “Cole’s Funny Picture Book”
had a feature called “A Thousand Good
Names For Girls” and a similar one for
boys. From this we learned the pulse and
rhythms of poetry.
Myrtle and Twirtle, Dahlia and
Amalia
These are good names for girls.
Bodger and Roger, Rudge and
Sludge,
There are good names for boys.
Thus, Cole's unique picture book not
only formed the religious and literary
values of the Australian child, but also
gave an early insight into the psychology
of modern man. Professor Cole made no
bones about the predatory sexual nature
of man. Little boys are constantly
ravishing little girls’ dolls throughout its
pages.
Tommy Sneggs screwed its legs
Alec Guyes poked its eyes
Arthur Sands squashed its hands
Alfred Cleck broke its neck.
This little doll-destroying saga con-
stitutes an epic of sadism which makes
the television exploits of Micky Spillane’s
Mike Hammer seem quite innocuous.
Did these experiences lead to my years of
well-known literary delinquency? I often
ask myself this, and find no clear answer.
However, there is a compensating (and
authentically interesting) aspect of Pro-
fessor Cole’s Weltanschauung for the
young. He firmly believed that “all great
religions teach the unity of man” and
that racialism in any shape or form was
the vilest of social evils. Decades before
Mrs Hitler became enceinte, Mr Cole
fought national prejudice with every
pictorial trick at his command. To illus-
trate the unity of mankind’s nations and
races he featured a picture gallery of
types from all over the world. Looking
back on these photographed heads in my
mature years I now realise that Mr Cole
was less than reliable in cutting out heads
from the “Illustrated London News” or
some such source, and that his geography
was prone to be over-subtle. I can accept
his version of a Javanese Jockey, an
Algerian Restaurateur, a Latvian Adver-
tising Agent, a Madagascan Laundry
Maid, a South African Greengrocer,
and (yum yum) a Finnish Usherette.
But from childhood I have been
haunted by the image of a Baxarian
Jeweller, wondering where in the world I
should find a race of people who resemble
Sir Anthony Eden. Eventually I found
Baxaria when I got round to reading the
Rigvedas in my dotage. I must confess
that you can't catch out Professor Cole
on his geography . .. but I still find it
difficult to imagine that the blokes who
composed the Vedas looked like Anthony
Eden. I also found myself greatly puzzled
by the picture of an Indian detective. No
turban, no dhoti, no thug disguise, but
an amiable Anglo-Saxon countenance
remarkably resembling the late Sir
Thomas Blarney.
Despite certain childish confusions (I
kept asking Australian Army officers how
long they had left Calcutta, and did they
personally know Gandhi ; and positively
asserting that all moustached Englishmen
stemmed from the nation of Baxaria) the
Cole’s lesson in internationalism was
firmly sheeted home.
It must not be thought that Mr Cole
was a dogmatic moraliser in the vein of
the Victorian juvenile literature of the
poms. He instilled high ideals of inter-
nationalism and humanism, but he per-
mitted the child a pretty free choice in
the matter of ethical behavior. He was
perpetually offering pictorial contrasts of
the behavior of good boys and bad boys.
The depictions of goodness had such a
creepy and issy-prissy air about them,
that I assiduously emulated all such
examples of wicked boydom as were
practical... with the result that lam the
interesting complex character I am today.
The Boy Who Smoked fascinated me.
His chest was all sunk, his heart por-
trayed as deepest black, he was covered
in acne down to his toes, and he seemed
to be spitting some interesting blood.
The non-smoking boy, while no doubt a
tribute to the American Health Studios


THE COUNTRY WOMAN
Paul Smith
The reading of it is a searing experience that will drive you, after
some ribald hoots of laughter, to anger, grief and tears . . . this is one
of the year’s top novels. ’— W. G. Rogers, Saturday Review of Literature.
22/6
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON MELBOURNE SYDNEY AUCKLAND
in physical development, looked a com-
plete moron. 1 therefore discovered the
pleasures of Coo-ee brand cigarettes at
an abnormally early age and spent years
waiting for the fascinating black patch
to appear on my chest over the heart.
Cole also depicted the sort of things
Good Boys do as against Bad Boys. As
a sensitive child I had no choice in the
matter. Good Boys behaved as follows:
they shared with friends, freed poor dogs,
mowed lawns, washed the back of the
neck, fed chooks, and took showers.
Bad Boys smoked, lassood girls, blacked
their sisters’ dolls, and rode their tricycles
at goats. (I spent two years trying to
find a goat to ride at) and, bliss-bliss-
bliss, painted chairs with glue. As you can
imagine, one had very little choice in the
matter. What boy worth his salt would
free a poor dog when he could paint a
chair with glue.
And so, with all due pride, 1 have to
announce that it is a great Australian
work which I find to be The Book Which
Most Profoundly Influenced My Life.
DOMINANT FEMALES
Amid the Plenty. Gavin Casey. Aus-
tralasian Book Society. 225. 6d.
Janie McLachlan. H. A. Lindsay.
Robert Hale Ltd. 15s. 6d.
Blow the Wind Southerly. Kay Brown-
bill. Rigby. 225. 6d.
Tn a country where women are con-
sidered to be subservient to their men
(and it is not such a bad idea as a few
militant ladies would have us believe)
it comes as a surprise to find, in the
latest novels of two Australian men,
an interest in the portrayal of their
female characters to the extent of having
them dominate their books.
Both novelists, Gavin Casey and E T . A.
Lindsay, are of the rugged species known
in Australia as “battlers,” and in Casey's
book, "Amid the Plenty,” and H. A.
Lindsay's “Janie McLachlan,” they show
the hand that lifts the schooner as
belonging to a rather weak and ineffec-
tual male. In both novels it is the hand
that rocks the cradle which halts the
reader and rivets his attention.
These women do not possess the stoic
grandeur of Lawson’s “Drover’s Wife”;
in tact they are in the modern tradition
oi being the female counterpart of the
anti-hero. They neither perform, nor
inspire towering feats, yet one feels it
possible they might, given the circum-
stances and heroic men.
Casey’s Enid Mayhew, today's work-
ing-class woman, is a new type bred of
hire-purchase whom our grandmothers
would have difficulty in recognising.
Carping, grasping, spiritually null, Gavin
Casey has drawn her recognisably and
well, as she flays her out-of-work hus-
band for “a front-room like everyone
else's.” During his period of unemploy-
ment she is perhaps Jack Mayhew’s
greatest cross. The fact that her
shrewishness is attributed to the meno-
pause makes us wonder if the author
wished to defend her (and there is a hint
of the chivalrous in his portrayal) or if
he wanted to depict a woman at that
distracting stage of her life. Whatever
his reason, he has set down the type of
working-class woman who frets her own
and her husband’s life away trying to
“keep up with the Joneses,” and whom
we quickly recognise as an authentic
character.
Mr Lindsay’s “Janie McLachlan” is a
rather brawny Scarlett O’Hara, dedi-
cated to the tract of land she owns in
the form of an island off the southern
coast of Australia. She also, out of an
excess of nervous energy, harries the
irresponsible man she marries late in life
chiefly for the procreation of children.
Mr Lindsay has an awesome knowledge
of the terrain he writes about, and his
detail is fresh and interesting. Once
again the Australian is shown as
threatened by his weird, overpowering
landscape.
“Blow the Wind Southerly,” by Kay
Brown bill, is the smooth professional
packaging of an old family mystery of
the 'nineties. A descendant of an early
South Australian family probes the past
in old newspapers for background to a
story her editor has assigned her, and,
at the same time, unravels a knotty
genealogical problem. The author is a
polished performer, and her story is
treated less as a piece of detection rather
than as an evocation of the atmosphere
and manners of South Australia in the
early colonial days.
THELMA FORSHAW
MESSIANIC AMBITIONS
The New Politics. America and the
End of the Postwar World. Edmond
Stillman and William PfafT. Seeker
and Warburg. 225. 6d.
Comeone once remarked that as the
Americans have no proprietary in-
terest in standard English, they have to
try to invent a language of their own.
This may be seen not only in the argot
of the beatnik but in the cant of that
obverse Yankee phenomenon, the egg-
head. The language of the political egg-
head is especially disquieting. He speaks
in a self-conscious, pontifical manner,
parading the latest coinage or some
glaringly erudite word, which sends the
reader back to his derivation book. We
can tolerate “meliorist” and “bi-polarity,”
even “parataxis” but to be told that
“the last of these allogene great powers
was the United States” (italics mine) or,
in a chapter headed “The Question of
National Significance,” that “the Ameri-
can interest does not lie in clumsy para-
empire but in the self-contradiction of
ideologised democracy,” is enough to stun
all sensibilities. As a complement to this
contortion of language, our co-authors
like to show off their wide (or is it
indiscriminate?) reading. Epigraphs lake
in Wallace Stevens, Eliot Kafka and
God love them! —not only Jeremiah
the Prophet but, above a chapter on
Russia, some remarks of Theophilus of
Pskov to Grand Duke Boris of Moscow.
As for quotations, well, there’s Toynbee
and Koestler and de Tocqueville and
Goethe and Lippmann and Machiaveili
and, perhaps showing a snip of the
scissors and a few dabs of paste, some
recent Pelican histories.
Actually this book need not have been
quite so indigestible. It is not an agonis-
ing re-appraisal of American policy since
the war so much as a level-headed, if
all too-solemn, revaluation, inspired per-
haps by an act of hope in the Kennedy
administration. The co-authors, one a
journalist, the other a former diplomat,
argue that American postwar policy has


Divorce Notices
Matrimonial Causes Act, 1959.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO JOZEF JANIAK.—TAKE NOTICE that
WALERIA JANIAK has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 4116 of 1961 on the grounds of desertion and
separation If you wish to defend you may file an
answer in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by the 24th day
of May 1962 and obtain a free copy of the petition
from JOSEPH H. McDOUGALL & CO., Solicitors, of
29 Bligh Street, Sydney—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
~' IN THE SUPREME - COURT"OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO KENNETH JOHN CHARLTON.—TAKE NOTICE
that GRACE MADGE CHARLTON has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3213 of 1961 on the grounds of
frequent convictions If you wish to defend you may
file an answer in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court Macquarie Street Sydney by the Ist June 1962
and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from McDONALD & MCDONALD, Solicitors, 17 Bolton
Street, Newcastle, or JOHN CORCORAN & CO.,
Solicitors, 2 York Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar. __
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO NORMAN EDWARD MeCOLL late of Shortland.
—TAKE NOTICE that NANCY ELAINE MeCOLL
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2552 of 1961 on
the ground of constructive desertion If you wish to
defend you may file an answer in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Macquarie Street Sydney by the Ist
day of June 1962 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from McDONALD & McDONALD,
Solicitors, 17 Bolton Street, Newcastle, or JOHN
CORCORAN & CO., Solicitors, 2 l 7 ork Street, Syd-
ney—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
' IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Matrimonial Causes Juki~dictiox.
TO ALBERT JOHN SCHMIDT address unknown. —-
TAKE NOTICE that IVY ADELAIDE SCHMIDT has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 675 of 1962 on the
ground of desertion If you wish to defend you may
enter an answer in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court Mint Building Macquarie Street on or beiore
the Ist day of June 1962 arid obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from J. H. WOLFF, Solicitor,
of 52 Phillip Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
been warped by messianic ambitions.
Politics has been regarded as a crusade,
rather than as the art of the possible.
Subsequently, foreign policy has run in
the odd blinkers of innocence and arro-
gance.
This policy was framed when Russia
and America incontestably shared the
imperium of the world, but this situation
is now changing and the USA is
being caught unprepared. The rise of a
rival to Russia within the communist
sphere, the development of the non-align-
ed countries with their dogged adherence
to neutralism in spite of bullying or
cajolery have made the policy of con-
tainment obsolete. While the military
power of Russia and the USA is increas-
ing quantitatively at a much greater rate
than elsewhere, the swelling of the nuc-
lear club will cause their power relatively
to decline. Israel, say, with nuclear
weapons could still be easily annihilated
by Russia but the hideous retribution that
would fall on some part of the USSR
should give her pause. A new balance of
power (or terror) is emerging which will
make necessary a revision of the present
system of military alliances. In this new
plural world foreign aid will also have
to be more discriminately offered and
with no strings attached.
This book is rather barren in con-
crete proposals but quite pregnant with
keen observation such as the following
quotation which is included here to con- -
vey the flavor of both thought and style:
“Some of our political men, and they
have not always been excluded by the
councils of serious policy, have been
so engrossed in the exegesis of Leninist
texts as to impute to the communists
a capacity to plan at a distance of half-
a-century and to foresee the future in
a detail remarkable for men supposedly
blinded by erroneous doctrine. One might
almost wonder if these Western analysts,
like somewhat uncertain Scottish Pres-
byters, are not unnerved by the am-
biguity of God’s role in the universe
are not intimidated by the puissance
of hell.” Local soothsayers and doom-
croakers, please note!
JAMES GRIFFIN
ASHAMED OF WEALTH
The Empty Canvas. Alberto Moravia.
Seeker & Warburg. 225. 6d.
The Road From the Monument. Storm
Jameson. Macmillan. 225. 6d.
Town Without Pity. Manfred Gregor.
Heinemann. 225. 6d.
Auto-Da-Fe. Elias Canetti. Jonathan
Cape. 265.
TThree of the four novels in this selec-
A tion illustrate a fact that is often
ignored today—that a good novel is still
vastly more important than any play,
biography, essay, treatise, poem, short
story or what have you : that in the hands
of a superior practitioner the novel is the
most rewarding art form ever invented,
and will tell the careful reader more
about life than anything except life itself.
Alberto Moravia is a very superior
practitioner of the novel indeed, and
his latest book is as good as anything
he has done. “The Empty Canvas” is a
study of boredom —but a boredom of
such depth and intensity that it is more
like the nausee of Satre’s early novel
than any simple weariness of spirit. Dino,
ashamed and disgusted by his mother’s
wealth, which seems to infect her whole
being with its atmosphere of calculation
(so that life becomes a book-keeping
process) tries to become a painter. He
finds, however, that his disgust with his
mother’s money distorts his attitude to-
wards, and his observations of, ail the
forms of the world itself. He realises
that his soul has become an empty can-
vas, like the one on his easel which he
cannot bring himself to touch.
Dino is drawn into a love affair with a
young model, and his sexual relationship
with this girl becomes, as it were, the
field on which the internal struggle of
his spirit against the emptiness of exist-
ence is played out. The record of it
is fascinating—lucid, intricate and full
of the psychological detail which tends to
infuriate critics and readers of the “don’t
make-me-think-but - kick-me-in-the-solar-
plexus” school, but which will delight
all those who understand that the
triumphs of Western literature from the
passionate dialectics of Greek drama to
the explorations of James, Proust and
Mann have been cerebral and analytic.
“The Road From The Monument” will
also delight everyone not suffering from
mental anaemia. It is a beautifully con-
structed study of the growth of a fam-
ous literary reputation, and its sudden
decline when the great man succumbs
to a moment of human weakness. With
deeply intelligent perception and ap-
praisal, Storm Jameson builds up the in-
volved, brilliant, cold world of the lit-
erary and political Establishment. The
character portrayal is so precise, the
management of the movement and pace
of the action so astute, that one could
well put this book into the hands of a
young novelist as an example of “he 7 to
do it” —of how a fine novelist can give
you life richly illuminated through the
full resources of the human mind —using
symbol and imagery, certainly, but
never, never forgetting that the fully
conscious mind is what really counts.
“Town Without Pity” is a lesser book
that these, because it skims the surface
of events, and therefore does not really
tell the full story. A young German girl
is raped by four American soldiers of
the Occupation forces. They are put on
trial, and under American law are liable
to the death penalty if convicted.
Their defending officer, though re-
volted by their crime, does not believe
that the four men should die because of
it, and, in order to. obtain a lesser pen-
alty, attempts to break down the raped
girl’when she is giving evidence by re-
vealing certain facts about her which
arouse suspicions that she might have
consented to her violation. As far as it
goes, the book is very good, and one’s
interest in the ultimate outcome never
flags—but at the end one feels that
there was much more that ought to
have been said: that one had been given
a quick tour around, a glimpse here and
there, but had not been made properly
acquainted with anyone.
“Auto-da-fe” is a reissue of a book
first published in 1946. It was greeted
then by cries of acclaim from the critics
and one can only repeat that this study
of human chaos, set in pre-war Germany,
is one of the great books of our time.
The study of the breakdown of a
scholar’s mind throws into vivid focus
the conflict of intelligence with the
brute world of instinct. Canetti’s night-
mare world is full of a Gothic vitality,
but the author’s vision is always clear,
his intelligence always in control.
NORMAN GEAR


Divorce Notice
Matrimonial Causes Act, 1959.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO HAROLD CHARLES MANNING late ot Balmain.
—TAKE NOTICE that BEBE MANNING has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 333 of 1962 on the grounds
of desertion and failure to pay maintenance If you
wish to defend you may file an answer in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Macquarie Street Sydney on
or before the Bth June 1962 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from lAN B. WALKER,
Solicitor, 88 Pitt Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
DENTURES
FIT-RITE
One application of this new semi-clear pliable
plastic discovery takes up slack, loose dentures
caused by gum shrinkage or worn dentures.
Dentures fit tight for life. FIT-RITE, developed
from the same material as your dentures,
ADHERES, SETS, MOULDS, HARDENS on to
dentures to the exact shape of the mouth AS
YOU WEAR. ENDS permanently daily use of
powders. DROPPING, WOBBLY DENTURES.
ENDS EMBARRASSMENT. RESTORES perfect
tight suction fit. Use with CONFIDENCE,
GUARANTEED Harmless! FIT-RITE also
IMPROVES facial beauty, pushes out hollow
cheeks and receding lips. Simply apply FIT-
RITE to side or front ridge of dentures. NO
RESULTS—NO CHARGE! So simple-
anyone can use. Sold only by DENTURE
PERFECT FIT-RITE CO. (Scientific
Colleges and Plastics Ind. Co. P./L.). 58
SWAN STREET (Opp. Richmond Station),
VICTORIA. J 81755.
I enclose 40/- for FIT-RITE, and/or send me
free particulars.
NAME
ADDRESS
BUL.
Divorce Notice
Matrimonial Causes Act, 1959.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HENRY MACDONALD formerly of Brewarrina
and Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that DOROTHY
MATTINGLY MACDONALD has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 612 of 1962 on the ground of separation
If you wish to defend you may enter an Answer in
the Divorce Registry Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by the 25th day of May 1962 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from N. Y.
MENLOVE, Solicitor, 160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Positions Vacant
LANGLEY SCHOOL, NORFOLK,
ENGLAND
BIOLOGIST September. To take YI Form
work. Burnham Scale plus £6O.
ASSISTANT MASTER September. Some
Science desirable but not essential. Burnham
Scale.
In both cases games and/or scouting would be
an asset. One master may be given charge of
Rugger, Lawn Tennis or Cricket. A house is
available for a married master. A single master
would be resident with board free in exchange
for assistant house duties. Fare will be paid
for master accepting three-year appointment.
Apply: Headmaster, Langley School, Nor 24W.
it
HELP
LEGACY
all the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM2OOI.
Ezra Pound’s Essays On Ignorance
Edited with an introduction by Australian
writer Noel Stock, IMPACT presents clearly
the complete Pound; his views on educa-
tion, history, money, literature and cul-
ture. PRICE 47/6, POSTED.
THE HERITAGE BOOKSHOP,
273 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
ENGINES
RECONDITIONED
WHILE-YOU-DRIVE
Super Nu Metal Pat. expands up to 30%,
eliminating slackness and lack of power
caused by WORN engine parts. Replates
Worn upper Cylinders, main bearings,
diffs, gears, SAVES rebore, ends piston
slap, rattles, oil, petrol waste. RESTORES:
New compression Power, top speed zip.
ADDS £ s. d. resale value. GUARANTEED:
Up to 25,000 miles according to engine
wear. SIMPLY add Re-Nu expanding liquid,
Nu Metal or in tablet form to oil, petrol,
plug holes. 4,6, 8 cylinders, 60/-, 70/-, 80/-.
Manufactured since 1934. Harmless to Finest
Engines. Open Saturday. Sold only by
RE-NU CO. (ESTAB. 1932).
Scientific Colleges & Plastic (lnd. Co. Pty. Ltd.)
58 Swan Street. (Opp. Richmond Stn.) J 81755.
I enclose £ .... for Super Nu Metal, or send copy
of testimonials, engineers reports and free folder
describing action of Nu Metal.
NAME .. .
ADDRESS
Bun
IT'S ONLY
and there’s
more to
read for
the whole
family in
Euerybody’s
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 688
Across
I—Will nothing take direction which is least profound? (10)
s—Duck French from poetry. (3)
B—Professional8 —Professional deserting the proxy prune sharpeners with
musical instruments. (10)
10— Before backing a volcano. (4)
11 — Tonics are supposed to improve this one after tea. (4)
12— Censor’s tie. (anagram) (10)
13 — Three of the Germans ride badly. (4)
15 — A distinguished social function
which restrains the floodwaters?
(5)
16 — It makes one very crook chorale
to have need of a new arrange-
ment. (7)
17 — Dishonorably corrupts some di-
rection of Mussolini. (7)
18— Course it’s a Gael. (5)
19 — Very extensive in Virginia Street.
(4)
21 —Not the experience you have
when Michael says “boo.” (4-6)
23 Aunt disguised as a fish. (4)
24 — P.M. starts with this incomplete
cricket field? (4)
25 — Can be cured about the first per-
son going to the devil. (10)
26 — Favorite fit of peevishness. (3)
27 — Oriental with a fastener’s birds.
GO)
Down
1 — Mess-ups are at such lots of
79d. (5, 3,6)
2 There’s insincerity in this apple-
sauce gambit in tennis. (3, 7)
3 Court to have dinner on a
steamer characteristic of wild
blackberries etc. (9)
4 The Maori street’s examinations.
(5)
6 It’s cleaner to give discourage-
ment to a polite little man. (9)
7 Mail from Canberra? (7, 7)
9—Dark-red resin. (3)
10 —It comes at last. (3)
14—There’s not much key variety in
this musical entertainment with
a musical instrument. (10)
15 — Right angle on an expression by
the poetic way with one mag-
netic rock. (9)
16 — An adaptable creature offering
tea to me and a French boy. (9)
20 — Hard fruit upset a barrel. (3)
21 — Parent transporter of Sinbad in
French Morocco. (5)
22 — The sack upset this gossip. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 687


ESSO Standard Eastern, Inc., has certain economic, social, and moral
beliefs and principles on which it bases the conduct of its affairs. We consider it
important to state these beliefs and principles.
Credo
We believe the oil industry provides services essential
to a growing economy in modern civilization and that it con-
tributes substantially to raising living standards throughout
the world.
We believe that private oil companies that have grown
and developed under the stimulus of competitive enterprise
have proved the most effective instruments for finding oil and
for producing, processing, and distributing oil and oil products
required for economic development.
We believe that Standard Oil Company (New Jersey)
and its affiliates are especially well equipped to bring the bene-
fits of the oil industry to the people they serve and to the na-
tions within whose borders they operate.
We believe that Esso Standard Eastern, Inc., as a mem-
ber of the worldwide Jersey organization, brings exceptional
experience and technical, financial, and commercial compe-
tence to its task of supplying fuel, energy, and the many prod-
ucts manufactured from oil.
We believe that, in addition to its duty of earning the
reasonable profit that is required in order to provide the share-
holders a fair return on their investment, commensurate with
risks involved, our company has these important obligations
AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
TO CONSUMERS. We recognize obligations to provide con-
sumers with products of the highest quality at the lowest price
economically feasible and to assure that our products meet
and anticipate the needs of the people and of the community.
TO EMPLOYEES. We have a responsibility to ” ssure our em-
ployees a decent, progressive standard of living, safe working
conditions, and a fair system of material rewards for their
work at least as favorable as those provided by other leading
companies in comparable operations. The company also rec-
ognizes an obligation to provide employees with opportunities
to acquire and develop their skills through training in order to
qualify for positions of increasing responsibility and to gain
personal satisfaction through achieving the most from their
abilities. We consider our employees, the people who give us
their skills, energy, and time, to be our greatest asset.
•TO MARKETING ASSOCIATES. We consider dealers in
our products an essential link in our business enterprise and
recognize our responsibility to help them by fostering condi-
tions encouraging sound commercial operations serving the
community and the public.
TO " IE COMMUNITY. We as a company strive to be an
integral part of the social and economic life of the communi-
ties in which we operate. We affirm that in all phases of our
operations we should endeavor to serve the public interest, be
considerate of our neighbors, and cooperate with peoples and
governments, helping them to achieve for themselves a higher
degree of economic and social security.
These are the principles guiding the conduct of Esso Standard Eastern’s business affairs. For their
faithful observance, the company needs and expects the full effort and cooperation of all the
thousands of men and women who make up the Esso Standard Eastern family.
ESSO
For and On Behalf of The Board of Directors:
J.V. PICKERING, President
4725/FP
As an affiliate of Esso Standard Eastern Inc., Esso Standard Oil (Australia)
Pty. Ltd. has adopted the Credo of its parent company reproduced above.
