

The Bulletin
NOVEMBER 10, 1962
Australia 1/-, New Zealand 2/- f Malaysia $1
AN AUSTRALIAN JOURNAL OF COMMENT AND OPINION - EST. 1880
"The Butcher's Hut" by Sidney Nolan
AUSTRALIAN ART AUCTIONS - Sydney and London
• DEFENCE Sir Wilfrid Kent Hughes
• JOSEPH COOK Incredible Prime Minister
• AUSTRALIAN BOOK WEEK The Publishing Rat Race


*
#>
#
1
%
I
& c%:v
fV
* ,«
#
«•*
DALWOOD
DALWOOD
DALWOOD
HERMITAGE
Banter Valley Australia
Humcr Vallc‘v" Ausiniiw
CLARET
CHABLIS
RIESLING
Reserve Boh ling
Reserve Bottling
8> 'tN'OtOS WINtS »T* t' 9
CONTENTS- t PT. 6 PL. OZS
UtO »Y f»CNPOLDS WINES p™
Rf«-n« Bolting
av ptfvrot-DS vV,NE * i ***t
Contents t pt. 6 pl 025
**U.»Oy* NC * Det _ Alo£ OKl***"*
CONTENTS: 1 PT. 6 PL. OZS
4r 5
fc' - .e l**
*4
\ •
Nf /?■ • .. £i
»’ 10»w >
. .>/ - •'>
■& v: ••»***s&*
N
THE CLASSIC WINES OF DALWOOD
Dalwood in the Hunter Valley of New South Wales has
long been known to wine enthusiasts for its outstanding
table wines. This historic vineyard established in 1831 by
a gentleman from Wiltshire named George Wyndham,
was later acquired and extensively developed by Penfolds.
Dalwood Wines are classic examples of the table wines
that have made the Hunter Valley famous.
DALWOOD HERMITAGE CLARET
DALWOOD BURGUNDY
DALWOOD RIESLING
DALWOOD CHABLIS


National Notebook
Give And Take
The Korean Ambassador, Mr Dong
A Whan Lee, flew into Melbourne
last week and talked of the Cup and
pigs’ bristles. The Cup was to be a
highlight of his visit, while the pigs’
bristles were regrettably just about the
only trade item Australia buys from the
Republic of Korea.
Mr Lee will also be attending the
Colombo Plan Conference. His country
was granted observer status last year and
has a team at the Conference now going
on at the Southern Cross Hotel. It has
leaked out that the Koreans are lobbying
vigorously for full membership and that
several countries, notably Indonesia and
Ceylon, are just as strongly opposed to
their admission.
The objections are essentially political,
partly stemming from dislike of the
Republic of Korea’s present regime, but
also with a thought that Chiang Kai-
shek’s Formosa might be the next to
apply. Other delegations are less frank
and are preferring to argue the Koreans
away by pointing out that they do not
belong geographically to the Colombo
Plan region.
This argument is a telling one if the
Koreans want to come in
as a recipient of Colombo
aid; if they envisaged
themselves as a donor
nation, then geography
doesn’t matter, since
Canada, Britain and USA
are members. It seems
that the Koreans are looking for aid,
but are unlikely to get full Colombo
Plan membership.
New Frontiers
Jhe issue of the “Texas Quarterly”
devoted to Australia and Australian
writing, published by the University of
Texas, lay heavy in our hand for several
hours. If the Texans are the Superameri-
cans, they also produce super literary
quarterlies. Not for them the highly se-
lective, clique-ridden sort of thing which
comes out of England. They want the
lot.
Rather making Australia in the Texan
■™age, the quarterly began with Mary
urack on 'ln Search of an Australian
rentier” and had chapters on engineer-
's* gold and other solid subjects. But
*1 reproduced some good Australian
Pointings, unfortunately only in black
fnd white, and included most of our
est short story writers and poets. All
>n all it was a very thoroughgoing job,
11 not a very exciting one.
In Segovia's Footsteps
VV/hen the noted Spanish guitarist,
Andres Segovia, was in Australia
members of the Sydney-based Society of
the Classical Guitar asked him if he
could suggest a guitarist who might come
here and fill the gap caused by the fact
that there is no teacher of the guitar
at the Sydney Conservatorium, as there
is in Melbourne and Brisbane.
Segovia suggested a Spaniard, Jose
Luis Gonzales, and Mr Gonzales arrived
a few weeks ago to take up teaching
at Ricordi’s. He already has as many
students as he can cope with, particu-
larly in view of his rather frail grasp on
English.
However, members of the guitar so-
ciety are in some excitement to discover
that they have a first-class concert guita-
rist on their hand, as well as a suitable
teacher. Translating some of Mr Gon-
zales’ Press cuttings, they learnt that he
is regarded by Segovia as one of the four
best guitarists in the world. The society
has arranged two concerts for Mr Gon-
zales on November 17 and 28 at the
Cell Block Theatre, Darlinghurst, where,
Mr Gonzales says, the acoustics are
extremely good. The society expects that
he will eventually tour
most States.
Gonzales, following on
the heels of Segovia and
dancer Lusillo, has meant
quite a revival of interest
in Spanish culture. How-
ever, when the Spanish
film ‘‘Pepote” was shown at the Union
Theatre recently audiences were scant.
Vintage
I ast week Wine and Food Society
members, restaurateurs, and citi-
zenry converged on the Coonawarra
vineyards from Victoria and South Aus-
tralia by charter planes. South Australia’s
teetotal Premier, Sir Thomas Playford,
led the junketers. Miss South Australia
sipped the new Riesling. On the steps
outside John Riddoch’s 72-year-old
cellars pretty speeches were made in pro-
fusion, all paying tribute to the emer-
gence of Coonawarra as one of Aus-
tralia’s great vintage wine districts.
Least impressed of the 200 visitors was
the governing director, old Sam Wynn
himself. Mr Wynn launched into a dis-
sertation on the importance of sound
casking, and an impassioned plea that
the visitors should not touch their pre-
sentation bottle of the new young Ries-
ling for at least a year. Sir Thomas
looked suitably bewildered.
AUSTRALIAN BOOK WEEK
Page 27
Publishing Rat Race
•
The Story Behind Calwell and
Cohen 6
Is the Local Art Market “Sop-
histicated”? 12
The Barefoot Biographer
Keith Willey on Douglas
Lockwood 13
Five Middys 14
Turning Indonesia into a Pacific
Cuba 16
The White Russian Refugees 17
Joseph Cook—lncredible Prime
Minister 20
Behind the Sino-Indian Conflict 24
Fountain or Cistern 31
Charles Harpur, Australian .... 34
Trading Deficit Reflects Tempo 43
Surprising Turnover in BHP
Shares 48
Australian Wines Lose Ground
in UK 61
•
TANNER 4
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
80 YEARS AGO 7
AS I SEE IT 8
AROUND MELBOURNE 10
OUT AND ABOUT 12
OVERSEAS 24
FORUM ...... 27
LETTERS 29
REVIEWS 31
RED PAGE 34
WORLD OF BUSINESS 43
MAN ON THE LAND 61
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY. LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George St., Sydney
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521: Phone
27-5971. Melbourne: Phone MF3341. Bris-
bane: Phone 82691. Adelaide: Phone
W 4121-3.
Vol. 85
No. 4317


Unrepresented
T ondon’s second annual Wine Fair,
organised by Peter Dominic’s, has
just been held in Chelsea Town Hall,
with wine from every continent in the
world except those of the youngest wine-
makers, America and Australia. Last
year a small Australia exhibit included
“Emu” wines; claret, port and sherry;
plus one or two brands familiar in Aus-
tralia. This selection fell far below that
permanently on show and available from
the Australian Wine Centre in Soho and
was probably even damaging.
This year, although no Australian
wines were on show, the catalogue of-
fered for sale the same selections as in
1961 a hock with “not a trace of the
sheep station in the bouquet,” a sauterne
and a burgundy. Last year's sales may
not have justified the trouble taken and
in any event unless the best table wines
were to be available, the cause of Aus-
tralian wine would have suffered.
The appeal of the Chelsea Wine Fair
lies in its offer of unlimited tasting. An
entrance fee of 7/6d means any wine on
show can be sampled, at only 6d a nip.
These range from the great French
wines such as Chateau Lafitte, selling at
31/6d. a bottle, to the newest wines
struggling for a place on the British
market, of Yugoslavia, Hungary and
Russia.
He Never Would Be Missed
npHE Victorian Government recently dis-
covered that an important position
in the Public Service, which has existed
for more than 100 years, had never been
filled. The position was: Registrar and
Keeper of the Records of the Supreme
Court of Victoria.
To clear the matter up the Govern-
ment introduced a Bill in the Legislative
Council to abolish the position. The
Minister for Immigration, Mr R. J.
Hamer explaining the Bill, told some
rather startled members of Parliament:
“The Supreme Court Act provides that
the Court shall have a registrar and
keeper of the records. However, there
has never been any appointment to the
office as far as research can establish.”
Mr Hamer said the duties intended
to be performed by the holder of the
office have been performed by other
officers of the court and Public Service.
“It appears,” said Mr Hamer, “That
for some time past Bills have been re-
ceived by the Master of the Supreme
Court.”
The Leader of the State Opposition,
Mr J. W. Galbally, opened the debate.
He said: “This is a quaint little measure
that will, so to speak, lighten the solem-
nity of our tasks here. After many years,
Parliament has decided to abolish an
office that has never existed. I suppose
no one could take exception to that
course. I think the Liberal Party Govern-
ment ought to be congratulated upon its
diligence in examining the Statute Law
of the State, discovering that an office
has never been filled, and then deciding
to abolish it.”
The Country Party entered the debate.
Mr P. V. Feltham said: “The Country
Party’s only concern is that the office of
Registrar has existed for many years
but no enterprising person has found his
way into that office. I suggest that the
House should pass this measure as soon
as possible lest someone be appointed
to fill the position.”
The Bill passed through its remaining
stages and the 100-year-old unfilled office
was abolished in less that five minutes
almost a record for a Bill to pass through
the Legislative Council. Now instead of
copies of assented Bills of Parliament
being sent to a non-existent office, they
will now, officially, go to the Master of
the Supreme Court.
Luxury Line
Ane of Tasmania’s unique attractions
” for visitors will go when the Abt
(“rack”) railway between Strahan and
Queenstown is closed in a few months.
It is owned by the Mt Lyell Railway
and Mining Company, which built it to
link the Queenstown copper mines with
the Regatta Point wharf on Macquarie
Harbor.
As it climbs up the sombre King River
Gorge, the little engine puffing and its
pinion clanking on the rack, travellers
can look 500 ft. down to the torrent,
now muddy-brown w'ith mining sludge
but still wildly beautiful. Beside the
track, scarlet Japanese fuchsias planted
in the 1890 s and now growing wild in
profusion, and many native flowers
provide blazing color between November
and March.
The Mt Lvell company is closing the
"The Russian system seems
to suit
the Russian people
and we Jews


railway because it is uneconomic. It
will use motor transport on the road
which now links Queenstown and
Strahan, and the line could never be
maintained merely for tourists.
The more moribund Tasmanian
Government Railways survive on bor-
rowed time with growing annual deficits
which have led the authorities to demand
that departmental officials should where
ever possible divert their traffic to the
railways. As yet, it has not been
officially suggested that Ministers should
leave their shiny government cars at
home and go by train.
Our Cover
rr.His week’s cover is Sidney Nolan’s
“The Butcher’s Hut”, painted in
1950 after trips to the outback, 1948-50.
The artist’s wife, Cynthia Nolan, has
just published an account of these trips,
called “Outback”, which is illustrated
with some Nolan drawings and photo-
graphs. “The Butcher’s Hut” is part of
the Voss Smith collection, to be
auctioned by the Clune Galleries in
Sydney on November 14 and 15. There
is more about the auction on page 12.
Footnote
\Ue wouldn’t have believed it, but in
” their glossy catalogue of Christmas
gifts, Georges of Melbourne are offering
raffia sandals, “very bare and brief with
absolutely no sole.” In red or white, from
America, two guineas. Trade name is
“Little Nothing”.
Tamer
have just got to fit into it."
PLAIN ENGLISH
MR CALWELL AND SENATOR COHEN
The most charitable conclusion to be drawn from Mr Calweli’s
defence of Senator S. 11. Cohen over the Soviet Jews dispute is
that the Leader of the Opposition no longer knows his right hand
from his left. Mr Calwell has at all times been a friend of the Jewish
community in Australia and in his days as Immigration Minister he was
both available and sympathetic in the cause of Jewish immigration. But
his defence of Senator Cohen is both disgraceful and sad.
Anti-Semitism is a repellent and virulent psychological disease
wherever and whenever it occurs. It reached its most terrible form with
the Nazis but is no less a disease in Russia where it has been historically
endemic and where there is not the slightest difference between Czarist
pogroms and present-day Soviet persecution. Anyone who read Isi
Leibler’s story in The Bulletin (September 29), and who had a heart
at all, could not fail to be angered by the evidence-now before the UN—
of the Soviet’s deliberate, racial persecution of its 3,000,000 Jews. In
Russia the Soviet Press runs anti-Semitic stories, Jewish public servants
are discriminated against, Russian Jewish contacts with overseas Jewry
are prohibited, synagogues have been closed down and the number of
Jews found guilty of so-called economic crimes and executed are out
of all proportion.
When through the agency of the Victorian Jewish Board of Deputies
the matter was raised in Parliament, in an attempt to get a bi-partisan
approach to a problem that worries Jews the world over, Senator Cohen
had the audacity to answer: “I do not find it necessary to defend the
Russian system. That system apparently suits the Russian people and
the Jewish community of Russia must work out its own destiny in that
system.” Some destiny! The lack of humanity in this statement is only
explained by two things. One is the extreme Soviet sympathies of Senator
Cohen who, like Mr Judah Waten, would rather deny his own people
than criticise the Soviet Union. The other is the curious situation cieated
in the Federal ALP by the Communist-oriented Victorian ALP.
Because of this the Soviet must not be attacked. It is ironic that for a
number of reasons —Dr Evatts early efforts on behalf of Isiael among
them—that the Jewish Board of Deputies should have looked first to the
ALP for help. It looked in vain. It was accused of being anti-Soviet and
of trying to split the ALP. That is where Mr Calwell has come in in
his misplaced defence of Senator Cohen a known Soviet apologist.
Apparently Mr Calwell will do anything to try and preserve the facade
of ALP unity even if it requires him to ignore patent facts about a
situation which would, in other circumstances, revolt him. Mr Calwell
must know that the treatment of Soviet Jewry is a mattei of concern
all over the world. He must know that it is now in the UN wheie it
has been raised officially, among others, by the Government of Isiael.
Mr Calwell’s next step, obviously, is to accuse Mr Ben Gurion of trying
to smear Senator Cohen and split the ALP. j


THIS AUSTRALIA
JEWS
THE STORY BEHIND
CALWELL AND COHEN
Australia acts in the United Nations
A. A. CALWELL
Special friend?
|"|n Friday November 2 Mr Douglas
White, Australian delegate at the
UN social committee, got up and attacked
the Soviet Union over its treatment of the
Jews. His intervention, widely reported
in the world Press, was the result of
months of lobbying and hard work on
the part of members of the Victorian
Jewish Board of Deputies.
It all started early this year, when the
first news reached the Jewish community
in Australia indicating that the position
of the Jews in the USSR had taken a
new turn for the worse. Large numbers
of Jews were sentenced to death for
alleged economic offences and espionage.
At the same time Soviet anti-Semitic pro-
paganda was stepped up. Those who
knew how to read Soviet signs also
noticed with alarm that the Communist
bloc was passing through a very serious
food-crisis. Since the masking of famines
by pogroms is an ancient Russian custom,
much older than the Bolshevik regime, it
became apparent that the worst could be
expected.
A number of prominent Jews in Mel-
bourne decided that the time had come
to act. The problem of Soviet Jewry was
debated at length at the Victorian Jewish
Board of Deputies, and from the debates
two responsible opinions emerged. Some
Jewish leaders held that exposing the
plight of Soviet Jews in public might
harden the attitude of Soviet leaders
towards their Jewish minority by aggra-
vating Cold War tensions, and by exacer-
bating their anti-Jewish paranoia (“you
see they do have links with our
enemies"). Yet the majority came down
on the side of Mr Ashkanasy, QC, who
told the Board bluntly that in his view the
risks of silence exceeded the calculated
risk of an exposure. Discretion and in-
direct approaches had been of no avail
with the Nazis, they never worked with
the Communists and there was no reason
■-o expect that they would impress
Khrushchev. On the other hand if the
Jews managed to turn themselves into an
international nuisance for the USSR on
the issue of Soviet Jewry, they would be
much more likely to obtain concessions
from Communist leaders who are devoid
of decency and moral scruples but who
respect the facts of power. Both groups
on the Victorian board, the soft and the
hard lines were thoroughly aroused by
the position in Russia and they differed
merely on tactics.
The day-to-day handling of the issue
became the responsibility or the Public
Relations Committee of the Board of
Deputies headed by Mr Isi Leibler. Two
sets of measures were taken: articles were
arranged exposing the situation in the
Press and lobbying was initiated to per-
suade the Australian Government to
bring the matter before the United
Nations and demand of the Soviet Gov-
ernment that it should change its treat-
ment of Jews or else allow them to emi-
grate. Since the Government is Liberal
the normal thing would have been to
approach Liberal parliamentarians.
Yet the Jewish community has a long-
standing attachment to the ALP which
is regarded by many Jews, quite mis-
takenly, as the main champion of minor-
ity interests in Australia. Dr Evatt's pro-
Israel attitude during the Israel War of
Independence in 1948 is remembered
with gratitude. Also Mr Cafwell managed
to create a very favorable image of him-
self as a friend of the Jews during his
tenure of office as Minister for Immigra-
tion. The first approach was, therefore,
made to ALP politicians. Yet it became
quite obvious very soon that those who
were approached had no intention of
bringing the matter up in parliament or
of handling it in any other effective way.
It also became painfully apparent that
their reluctance was due to fears that
they might embarrass the ALP which is
too deeply embroiled with the Commun-
ists, particularly in Victoria, and cannot
participate in an “anti-Soviet” move
without a major internal brawl or split.
The situation was further complicated by
the fact that one of the two Jewish parlia-
mentarians, Senator Cohen, is a fellow-
traveller who owes his seat to the Vic-
torian junta and who could be expected
to do a whitewash job for the Soviet
Government in Parliament, thereby
creating additional embarrassment for the
ALP.
Having no other choice, Jewish spokes-
men approached the Liberals, and they
found a ready response among some of
them. The matter was raised for the first
time in the House of Representatives by
Mr W. C. Haworth, Liberal member for
Isaacs, Mr Leibler’s constituency, on Oct-
ober 3. Following Mr Haworth's lead Mr
Einfeld, Labor member for Phillip, also
spoke up and supported Mr Haworth. Mr
Wentworth then congratulated both
members on their bipartisan approach to
an important matter. Roughly at the
same time Mr Leibler wrote a full
account of the Russian situation in The
Bulletin.
Abusive articles
Xj\)R several weeks the Communist
A papers, the “Guardian" arid “Tribune”,
but particularly the former, have been
following the campaign with some
anxiety and their “special correspondent”,
widely believed to be Judah W’aten, has
been publishing abusive articles directed
mainly against Mr Leibler, Dr Knopfel-
macher and Mr Ashkanasy almost every
week. Yet at this stage the Soviet
Embassy itself could no longer remain
silent. The Soviet Press attache wrote an
extremely abusive letter which was pub-
lished in The Bulletin in reply to Lei-
bler's article. The Embassy also approa-
ched individual Jews and its personnel
engaged in lobbying on the issue of
Soviet Jews on both sides of the House.
The Communist counter-attack has
had some measure of success, in that a
group of ALP “Left-wingers" decided on
a shrewd device to kill the issue and
prevent it from being brought before the
UN by an Australian delegate. The
clever idea was to degrade the issue by
making it appear to be a Party-political
stunt, provoke a brawl in the Senate and
frighten the Jewish community into
acquiescence by threatening a “breach
with Labor". When Senator Hannan rose
in the Senate on October 18 to bring the
matter up, he was subjected to irrelevant
and insulting interjections from Labor
Senators, and in particular from Senator
Hendricksen who, perhaps remembering
Hitler's famous statement about the Big


Lie, called Hannan a Nazi supporter.
Amid general uproar Senator Hendrick-
sen was suspended from the House. Sen-
ator Cohen then got up, declared that
the whole thing was an attack on him-
self, questioned the integrity and vera-
city of the Senators who brought the
matter up and dissociated himself from
any moves to bring the matter before
the UN. He said: “I do not find it neces-
sary to defend the Russian system. That
system apparently suits the Russian
people and the Jewish community in
Russia must work out its own destiny in
that system”. Hannan himself went out
of his way not to mention Cohen direct-
ly or by implication and to steer clear
of local politics.
The Jewish spokesmen who negotiated
with Liberal parliamentarians were quite
insistent on this point they pleaded
that local Party-political issues, including
Sam Cohen should not be dragged in.
The Liberals adhered to their under-
taking in this respect. Undeterred by in-
sults both Hannan and Haworth followed
the matter up a week later with ques-
tions to Sir Garfield Barwick and Sen-
ator Gorton, and obtained an under-
taking from the Government that Aus-
tralia bring the matter of Soviet Jews
before the UN.
International protests
When the news of Sam Cohen’s be-
haviour became known in the Jewish
community there was a storm of indign-
ation and protest. The charge that the
matter was an anti-Cohen stunt sounded
particularly absurd in view of the fact
that at the time the issue was being dis-
cussed in Canberra it was also being
raised by the Israeli Foreign Minister,
Mrs Golda Meir before the UN. At the
same time also the International Confed-
eration of Free Trade Unions was tabling
a protest through their representative at
the UN. The “Jewish Herald” October
-6, came out with a banner headline
“yAccuse” condemning Cohen in the
strongest possible terms. At a subsequent
meeting of the Board, speaker after
speaker rose and condemned the un-
fortunate Jewish Senator. A motion con-
gratulating the Public Relations Com-
mittee on their success was passed un-
animously. The Government and all
parliamentarians who participated in the
action received letters of thanks and
congratulations from the Board.
On November 2 both the “Jewish
Herald” and the “Australian Jewish
Hews” printed a statement by Mr Cal-
"dl in which he strongly defended Sam
Cohen and his claim that the recent par-
liamentary debate was merely an attempt
1° create trouble for Sam Cohen and
the ALP. The statement ended with the
following extraordinary words: “I would
like to see some attempt made to end
this recent period of fratricidal strife in
the Jewish community because its con-
tinuance can only be injurious to the
welfare of Jews in Australia.’' In view of
the clearly implied threat contained in
these words many Jews are wondering if
the interests of Jewish migrants might
not suffer if an ALP Government is re-
turned to office.
It is common knowledge in Mel-
bourne that Calwell’s inept intervention
has annoyed not only Jews but many
Labor politicians, some of them senior,
who can see quite clearly that by re-
maining silent or by supporting a huma-
nitarian action, the ALP could have
steered clear of trouble. It would not
have been difficult to issue appropriate
directives to Senator Cohen.
The affair is far from over. Threats
are now being made by members of the
ALP Central Executive in Melbourne to
get Mr Ashkanasy expelled from the
ALP. Some friends of Cohen are
spreading rumors that he spoke as he
did because he was ordered to do so by
the ALP Executive, whilst ALP politi-
cians are making moves behind the
scenes to dissociate themselves from
Cohen, Haylen and others. Meanwhile
the Public Relations Committee of the
Board is going quietly about its business
preparing a book of documents on the
position of Soviet Jews which will be
made available to the general public in
Australia. Those who have seen some of
the material maintain that its impact will
be devastating.
MUGGA
9 See “Mr Haylen and the Jews” page
29 and “Persecution of Soviet Jews”
page 30.
PUBLISHERS
AUSTRALIAN BOOK WEEK
A question of co-operation
A ustralian Book Week starts on No-
vember 9 and will last until Novem-
ber 17. It will give Australian publishers
a chance to display their wares.
The Australian Book Publishers’ As-
sociation, made up of all 45 Australian
and overseas firms publishing in Australia,
is promoting the Week. Over £2OOO has
been set aside to pay for the various acti-
vities and publicity connected with it,
and it is hoped that all of Australia’s
1400 booksellers will co-operate in dis-
playing Australian books.
To help encourage booksellers to put
on a good show the book trade maga-
zine, “Ideas”, is offering prizes for the
best city and country window displays,
Australian Book Week is the first of
what is hoped to be a regular event. Its
aim is two-fold. Most obviously it is
timed to catch the Christmas trade. A
colorful poster has been designed for
the week which has as its caption “GIVE
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS”,
However, there is another reason for
the week. Australia imports a greater
proportion of the total books it reads
than any other country, with the possible
PRAYERS FOR RAIN
November 11, 1882
The Editor of the Wilcannia
GRAZIER has been converted.
He prints this paragraph:— “Except
in Wilcannia, Thursday last was ob-
served at all the Anglican churches
as a day for humiliation and prayer
for rain, and (except in Wilcannia)
heavy rains fell throughout the colony
on Friday.” You see, Wilcannia is
the place, where the inhabitants are
so mercenary and incredulous that
they refuse to pay a parson liberally.
And as, of course, no parson will
work unless he is paid liberally, Wil-
cannia is at present without an ec-
clesiastic to bang the tom-tom in
drought-time. Once the people used
to shell-out to a duly-ordained rain-
beater; but as they found he was
positively unable to effect any change
whatever in the Divine plans, even
though they helped him to the extent
of praying till they had corns on their
knees, they said that as the average
parson was a man utterly inferior in
mental calibre to the average mer-
chant’s clerk, they would, if they
subsidised “the cloth” at all, only pay
say £250 a year for the privilege of
having in their midst a white tie. So
Wilcannia is now rainless and parson-
less.


exception of New Zealand. The idea,
then, is to draw Australia’s attention to
books published here. The appeal of
“Be Australian Buy Australian” seems to
have arrived in the publishing world.
A special catalogue has been issued
for Book Week which contains sections
on works of fiction, history, nature,
travel, the arts, belles, lettres, humor,
sports, children’s books, Australiana, and
biography. The fiction section looks im-
posing at first. Most of the novels are
reprints, only four of 202 books in the
catalogue are new novels.
Most of the books on display, then,
will be of the factual type, yet oddly
enough most of the writers asked to take
part in Book Week functions, such as the
reception by the Lord Mayor in Sydney
on November 13, are fiction writers such
as Ruth Park and lon Idriess.
Each State has its own organising
officer for Book Week. Among the most
energetic are Lloyd O’Neill of Melbourne
and Sam Ure Smith of Sydney, both
prominent publishers. The decision to
hold the Week was made in July of this
year, and so plans have had to be rushed
somewhat and up to last week there was
nothing really definite arranged in the
way of functions.
Sydney and Melbourne will open
Book Week with a cocktail party on the
ninth. The Sydney Lord Mayor will hold
a reception on the 13th. The Melbourne
party will be attended by Lord Casey.
On the 12th there will be a dinner at
Brisbane’s Lennon’s Hotel. There will
be similar functions in Hobart, Adelaide,
Perth and Canberra.
The overseas firms participating in
Book Week are those, like Collins, pub-
lishing here. However, most of the show
will be put on by the Australians.
Whether it will succeed will largely de-
pend on whether the booksellers will co-
operate with the publishers.
ROBERT MURRAY
• The Publishing Rat Race page 27
© Red Pages 34-42
THE SENATE
SHOULD COMMUNIST MIGRANTS GET
AUSTRALIAN NATURALISATION?
Looking at the reverse side of the coin
As I see it
Senator J.
Cavanagh,
of South Aus-
tralia, made it very clear in the Senate
recently that naturalisation should be
granted to migrants who were members
of the Communist Party.
As I see it, Senator Cavanagh either
accepts that the Communist Party is
NOT an authoritarian party and is NOT
committed to the overthrow of the Aus-
tralian constitution in its present form, or
has not thought the matter through.
Senator Cavanagh undoubtedly sees the
Communist Party in a much more sympa-
thetic light than he does other similarly
authoritarian parties. In fact, he seems to
see the Communist Party as sufficiently
like- the Labor Party for its supporters to
be imperceptible from ALP supporters,
particularly those he defines as “mili-
tants.” “Between members of the Com-
munist Party and those who may be
termed militant members of the Labor
Party is some line of demarcation which
we cannot define,” Senator Cavanagh
told the Senate.
These views Senator Cavanagh has pro-
bably held for a long time. As a promin-
ent member of the Plasterers’ Union,
Senator (then Mr) Cavanagh was re-
fused permission to visit the Woomera
Rocket Range in 1948. Permission was
refused not by a Conservative type Gov-
ernment but by the Chifley Labor Gov-
ernment. This action was taken not long
after the Chifley Government had passed
a piece of legislation entitled “Approved
Defence Establishments Protection Act”
to protect the range against Communist
attacks conducted on the industrial front.
After Mr Cavanagh had let fly with a
blast of protest, the then Acting Minister
for Supply, Mr William Riordan, who
now sits in the Labor caucus alongside
Senator Cavanagh had something to say.
On August 26, 1948, Mr Riordan went on
record as saying that the Chifley Govern-
ment was firm in its determination to pre-
vent trouble in such establishment by
persons who “had affiliations with
associations advocating Communist ideas
and theories and subversion generally.”
At a later date, the Chifley Government
had no cause to revise its attitude when it
found Mr Cavanagh condemning publicly
the jailing of the late Mr J. Healy and
Mr J. McPhillips, two top Communists,
for their activities during the 1949 coal
strike which Mr Chifley described as
“purely Communist inspired.”
While this history points to Senator
Cavanagh having considerable tolerance
about the Communist Party none of it
invalidates a point Senator Cavanagh
made while asking that migrants who
were Communists should be naturalised.
This point was that Australian citizens
were entitled to be members of the Com-
munist Party.
But as I see it Australian citizens have
entitlements which persons who are not
Australian citizens do not have. Austra-
lia being a liberal parliamentary demo-
cracy it operates on the principle that the
citizen is entitled to the maximum free-
dom in speech, expression and action con-
sistent with the maintenance of good
government and order. The citizen can
commit endless crimes without the risk
of being deported, for example, because
he is here by right.
At present, there are German, Italian
and Spanish migrants coming to this
country. As Senator Cavanagh is entitled
to point out, they may be or have been
members of the Nazi Party in Germany,!
the Fascists in Italy, or Falangists in
Spain.
I suggest that if Senator Cavanagh
looks at this reverse side of the coin he
might have second thoughts about the
desirability of naturalising migrant Com-
munists (unless of course he is not
opposed to the overthrow of the Austra-
lian state in its present form in which
case he should be in the Communist Party
and not the Labor Party as the Labor
Party claims it stands for the maintenance
of the democratic, parliamentary form of
government).
Senator Cavanagh would be the first
to protect if identifiable and active Nazis,
Fascists, and Falangists were granted Aus-
tralian naturalisation. His protests would
grow in volume (and I would be protest-
ing alongside him) if in addition to such
individuals being naturalised there was
already in existence in Australia a highly
organised, minority group with extensive
power over the community, particularly
in the industrial sphere, into which they
had infiltrated at the expense of the Party
to which Senator Cavanagh belongs.
He would undoubtedly object to re-
cruitment from overseas on the part of
such an authoritarian body. While to
maintain the principle of freedom for the
citizens, citizens could form or join such
an organisation why should non-citizens
be allow'ed in to swell its ranks?
The Communist Party is authoritarian.
Senator Cavanagh’s own. Labor Party
says so. It is based on the overthrow of
parliamentary democracy.
Authoritarianism is authoritarianism
whatever the label that precedes it. Until
Labor leaders —and Senator Cavanagh
has taken over a share of the Labor
leadership by entering Parliament under
its banner and as one of its mouth-
pieces—Labor will continue exposed to
Communist infiltration.
ALAN REID


PRIZEFIGHT
UNBECOMING A PROFESSOR
Censorship and undue influence?
“/Franks and Nuts” is the annual
magazine of Melbourne University’s
engineering students and its latest issue,
as well as being something oi a collec-
tor’s item, contains a warning that even
in a university the matter of freedom of
expression cannot always be taken for
granted.
The magazine offered a £lO prize for
the best article submitted. Professor
Henderson, Head of the Mechanical En-
gineering Department, agreed to act as
a judge in the contest. Among the
entries was one from Raj Huilgol, an
Indian student working for a master’s
degree in Prof. Henderson’s Depart-
ment. Raj Huilgol’s article was called
“The Syllabus-Makers” and it com-
mented on the “startling” expansion in
the Mechanical Engineering syllabus
over recent years. The author pointed
out that final year students in 1952 were
obliged to study five subjects, whereas
those of 1962 were faced with ten.
Prof. Henderson read the article in
his capacity as a judge and was far from
pleased at those observations. He called
Raj Huilgol to his office and “advised”
him to withdraw the article. The writer
agreed, but the magazine’s editors, Allen
Richards and D. Williamson, refused to
return it: they claimed that since it was
a competition entry they were not
obliged to give it back.
They made it know that they believed
Huilgol’s request was due to pressure
and not because of any change in his
opinions. Prof. Henderson then called
the editors to his presence and again
asked that the article be withdrawn from
the magazine. The committee of The
Engineering Students’ Club then met and
suggested that the offending material not
be printed in the magazine, “but in some
other publication, under a different
author, as Mr Huilgol’s academic career
would be seriously endangered.”
Editor Richards refused to accept this
advice and consulted the Dean of En-
gineering, Prof. Moorhouse, Head of the
Electrical Department. Acting on his
advice, the article was shown to the
Vice-Chancellor, Sir George Paton.
The latter declined to instruct the
editors one way or the other, but sug-
gested that if they ran the article, they
should give Prof. Henderson the oppor-
tunity to append a footnote if he so
desired. However, Prof. Henderson had
earlier declined to answer the article on
the grounds that to do so would be
undignified.
Further discussions between Prof.
Henderson and the editors were appa-
rently heated. At this stage, Williamson,
who is a Mechanical Engineering stu-
dent, resigned as editor, leaving matters
in the hands of Richards, a student in
the Mining Department.
The magazine appeared with Huilgol’s
article in full and there was also a foot-
note —but one signed by the editor, not
Prof. Henderson. The footnote said that
lecture-hours had increased from 257 in
1952 to 300 in 1962, while hours spent
on practical work had fallen from 234
to 206. This seemed to contradict the
article’s theme of an alarming increase
in the Mechanical Engineering Syllabus.
But in every copy of the magazine
the world “CANCELLED” had been
neatly stamped across the footnote and
every copy also contained a duplicated
sheet headed “Editor’s Note”. This stated
that the figures quoted had been supplied
by Prof. Henderson and “it has since
come to the notice of the editor that
this footnote is inaccurate.” The editor
went on to point out that data in the
Engineering Faculty handbooks revealed
an increase of 91 lecture-hours between
1952-62 and increases in practical work
varying between 89 hours and 167 hours,
depending on the course taken.
Before the magazine appeared there
had been talk of “censorship” and “un-
due influence” at work, but the final
turn of events suggests something even
more “undignified” of a university
teacher.
WHARFIES
FITZGIBBON AND
WHARFIE PENSIONS
Breaking with tradition
C. H. FITZGIBBON
FJhe fortunes of ALP General Sec-
retary of the Waterside Workers’
Federation, Mr C. H. (“Charlie”) Fitz-
gibbon continue to fluctuate.
But Fitzgibbon can control a large
majority of the 44 branches in Australia
and if he runs a ticket, and his ALP
advisers are urging him to do just that,
he might capture sufficient positions to
give himself the majority he needs on
Federal Council.
Fitzgibbon scored at least one very
important win at the recent council.
This was to give the officers authority
to continue to negotiate to obtain the
best possible pension scheme for wharf-
ies.
His Sydney branch officials, led by
President Jim Young, bitterly opposed
this idea at the Council meeting. They
still imagine that shipowners should pay
for the whole of the pension scheme.
Of course shipowners will never agree
to this so the Sydney branch is not help-
ing members very much by sticking to
the old line. Of course they make the
most of this by using the shipowners’
refusal as a very handy weapon with
which to attack not only the shipowners
but Fitzgibbon himself.
Their opposition to Fitzgibbon’s
scheme is rapidly losing support from
the rank-and-file. The men on the job
want a pension scheme and they are
fast coming to the conclusion that even
if they have to pay for it themselves
they would prefer this to no pensions at
all. Fitzgibbon has been able to con-
vince sufficient of the Federal Council
to carry on with his own ideas which
is a break with a 20-year-old tradition
on the waterfront. He is investigating
a number of proposals, and negotiations
have reached a delicate stage.
The pension scheme holds a few real
terrors for the comrades. It will mean
a stabilising of the industry in that
strikes may become a thing of the past
although they will never cease to be a
method of expressing dissatisfaction.
Details of the scheme are a well-kept
secret but it is obvious that it is going
to be a contributory one. The biggest
difficulty is that of providing pensions
for elderly waterside workers.
The premiums on any contributory
scheme for these aged men, who have
worked most of their lives in a tough
industry, even if introduced, would
necessarily be high so that some solu-
tion to this problem has to be found.


Around Melbourne
"A WONDERFUL LOT OF DRINKIN' MEN"
IJere in Victoria we are gathering
our Cobb & Co coaches, our
broughams, our boxer hats, to cele-
brate a most significant event the
centenary of the first visit by an All-
England XI. It was organised by a
firm of caterers, Messrs Spiers &
Pond. Their first idea was to get
Charles Dickens on a lecture tour.
He wouldn’t come so what could be
better than a cricket team? Mr H. H.
Stephenson and his Eleven arrived
just before Christmas and at the Mel-
bourne port of Sandridge there was
an arch of welcome and 3000 people
were waiting to cheer them ashore.
For the match the Melbourne
Cricket Club built a stand 700 feet
long, said to be the finest in the
world, and the amout of liquor stocked
in the bars below was also said to be
a record. Champagne was 4s a bottle
and scotch 3s. a bottle. The original
plan was for Mr Stephenson’s Eleven
to play a Melbourne and Districts’
team of 22. Mr Stephenson was livid,
this was unfair. The Melbourne
“Herald” counter-attacked. He had
played teams of 22 in America. Was
he frightened? Indeed one gentleman
even sent Mr Stephenson a white
feather.
Eventually there was a compromise
and on New Year’s Day, 1862, the
match got under way, the All-England
XI against the Melbourne and Dis-
tricts XXIII.
Against the deadly, very swift,
roundarm bowling of George “The
Lion-Hitter” Griffity and the insidious
round-arm spinners of G. Bennett,
Melbourne’s men collapsed for 118
in the first innings and 92 in the se-
cond. On the other hand Mr Stephen-
son’s men scored 305 with W. Caffyn
(“Terrible Billy”) making top score
of 79.
So you see the match did not go
the full three days as advertised, but
Messrs Spiers & Pond were equal to
the occasion.
They staged a balloon ascent from
the centre of the MCG. A very hand-
some balloon it was too. On the out-
side were pictures of the All-England
XI plus that of Queen Victoria. It
rose to 7000 feet and eventually came
down in Albert Street, East Mel-
bourne.
Now, more than 100 years later,
the Melbourne Cricket Club is trying
to equal the enterprise of Messrs
Spiers & Pond, The big celebration
will be on December 29, the first day
of the Second Test against England.
The MCG will be decorated from end
to end with bunting, and before the
Test there will be a restaging of the
historic match. Bill Ponsford, suitably
dressed in a straw-colored shirt with
red spots, will lead the Melbourne
XVIII, and Percy Page, the MCG
organiser, is trying to get someone
really awesome to lead the England
XI. The invitation has gone out to
Harold Larwood. According to the
rules he will be able to bowl only
round-arm and under-arm.
Some of the members were all for
staging another balloon ascent, but
what with the Civil Aviation Depart-
ment and such, this is out. The Servi-
ces will give a cliff-climbing demon-
stration up and down the stands during
the lunch hour.
T>ut the MCG is not the only one
celebrating. Cobb and Co in 1862
were kind enough to provide a magni-
ficent leviathan coach for the entire
All-England tour and there were
matches at Geelong, Ballarat, Castle-
maine and Beechworth. All these were
against 22-man sides. Why, a bowler
could have six slips, four long stops,
then he could arrange the others in
serried ranks on the leg and on sides.
Particular comment was made about
the match at Ballarat. The trouble
came when the batsman skied the ball.
Six or more players would converge
at once all with faces up-turned.
Some of the collisions were appalling.
On December 26, as part of their
Golden Hills Festival, Beechworth is
restaging the original match. Actually
this wasn’t awfully successful. The
Beechworth 22 was beaten unmerci-
fully. Mr Stephenson’s men made 264
then bundled out Beechworth for 20
and 56. Something had to be done to
fill in time so George Griffith, the
mighty all-rounder, was picked to
play a Beechworth Eleven on his own
at single wicket cricket. He bowled
out the Beechworth XI for one run,
which was a bye. Then in he came
very nonchalantly, rarely had a
cricketer ever been so triumphant. He
hit two runs and it was all over. Ah,
but at Castlemaine it was a different
story. The citizens are restaging their
match on December 10 and there will
even be an unveiling of a plaque which
will point out with infinite pride that
the Castlemaine 22 was the first team
ever to beat England on Victoria soil.
The Englishmen in this match never
looked strong against the Castlemaine
bowlers, but steadily their play seemed
to deteriorate. In the second innings
they collapsed, incredibly, for 68 runs.
In Castlemaine the excitement was
almost too much to bear. Over 5000
bearded miners cheered their men on
to victory and at 18 wickets down for
93 runs a gentleman named Dolphin
hit the winning three.
Mr Stephenson suggested that their
poor play could be attributed entirely
to the poor state of the Castlemaine
ground.
The Melbourne Press was a little
sharper. The suggestion was made
that the All-England XI had consumed
so much lobster and champagne it was
a wonder they made any runs at all.
Well, Castlemaine plans to restage the
whole affair and invitations have even
gone out for Ted Dexter, Alec Bed-
ser and other representatives, to at-
tend. One sincerley hopes that they
restage the lobster and champagne bit.
Mr Stephenson’s men toured to
NSW where there were matches at
Sydney and Bathurst. There was one
defeat at Sydney where an NSW and
Victorian combined XXII won by 12
wickets. Each member of the England
team received £l5O plus expenses for
the tour and odd bonuses collected
here and there. Messrs Spiers &
Pond covered all the costs and made
a clear profit of £ll,OOO. In fact
they did so well it was the last time
that the two MCG’s ever allowed a
firm of caterers to take over the con-
trol of cricket.
The Englishmen, generally, thought
the standard of cricket in Australia
was low, but at least Roger Iddison,
the Yorkshire all-rounder, had one
kind comment: “Well, oi doan’t think
mooch of their play, but they are
a wonderful lot of drinkin’ men.”
BATMAN


ABORIGINES
WINDING UP PINDAN PTY LTD
A blow to aboriginal advancement
T'he cause of those supporting aborig-
inal advancement received a severe
setback last week when moves were
begun in the steamy North-West town
of Port Hedland to put the firm of
Pindan Pty Ltd into liquidation.
Pindan is a registered company, but
is in fact a native co-operative formed
in 1955 to enable native miners to get
their fair share from operations they
were carrying out in the Pilbara dis-
trict.
It was started by Donald McLeod,
the white chief of the native group.
McLeod led the Pilbara natives in a
strike against their conditions as station
hands in 1946, and has battled ever
since to se: t an organisation which
would enable natives to run their own
affairs quite independent of white con-
trol.
McLeod has been called a Com-
munist and worse for his 16 year struggle
for native self-determination. Three
years ago he was spurned by his own
supporters when he was voted out of
the Pindan company and took a small
group of loyal natives to the neigh-
boring town of Roebourne to set up
a new mining venture under the name
of Nomads Pty Ltd.
Oddly enough, the split came because
his native lieutenants claimed he was
unduly unco-operative with the white
community. The half-caste Ernie
Mitchell, who led the move to oust
McLeod and who sometimes claims
kinship with one-time Premier, Sir
James Mitchell, said at the time that
natives wanted educational opportunities
which the Native Welfare Department
was prepared to provide but which
McLeod rejected because of his long-
standing feud with the department. He
also rejected benefits the natives could
claim such as old-age pensions and child
endowment.
When McLeod moved out and Mitchell
moved in, the Native Welfare Depart-
ment appointed former Sydney journa-
list Bill Courtney to put it on its feet.
Neither Mitchell nor his second-in-
command, Peter Coffin, could read or
write, and Courtney had the difficult
job of looking after their affairs with-
out interfering with the Pindan’s tradi-
tional pattern of collectivism or over-
riding the authority of its elected native
leaders.
At first it looked as if the exoeriment
would work. A school was set up for
the native children close to the group's
base camp in Port Hedland; the adults
began attending night classes and apply-
ing for citizenship and other benefits.
Despite these advances, the Pindan
company ran into financial trouble after
Courtney was transferred to Halls Creek
and its accumulated debts are now said
to be close to £lO,OOO.
Meantime, the canny prospector Mc-
Leod had led his small band of loyal
natives to a beryl deposit just outside
Roebourne. Living in their traditional
style of strict austerity, the Nomads
group began to make progress and now
claim to have accumulated assets of
more than £lO,OOO. They also claim
to have doubled their numbers from
100 to 200.
The crux of the current situation is
McLeod’s constant claim that the
natives can only achieve self-determina-
tion by maintaining their traditional
social organisation and rejecting hand-
outs from the white community. When
Mitchell and his followers ousted
McLeod from Pindan, it looked as if
co-operation was possible and practical.
The collapse of Pindan under native
leadership and Native Welfare Depart-
ment guidance has throwm the whole
question of native advancement back
into the melting pot.
COLOMBO PLAN
THE VIRTUES OF INFORMALITY
Canada gives more in Asia than Australia
HPhe Colombo Plan meeting which has
been going on in the blue and cream
Southern Cross Hotel since last Tuesday
week has brought an impressive array
of nearly 200 delegates to Melbourne.
Every country in the South-East Asian
region is represented, from the giants
like India, Pakistan and Indonesia, right
through to the pocked-sized Sarawak
and North Borneo and the city-state of
Singapore. Counting the donor coun-
tries—Australia, Britain, Canada, Japan
and USA—there are 21 nations repre-
sented.
Surrounding the official delegates is
all the paraphernalia of a twentieth-
century international conference
translators, simultaneous interpreters,
typists and Press officers, not to mention
officials in charge of protocol, hospit-
ality, finance, security, property and
transport.
But all this activity is a mere curtain-
raiser officialdom’s few hours of
glory before their political chiefs arrive
and the Conference shifts to Ministerial
level next Monday. Mr Menzies will
ceremonially inaugurate the Ministers’
meeting at which Australia will be repre-
sented by Sir Garfield Barwick. -All
along the line, the political heads will
take over Singapore is sending its
Finance Minister. Dr Goh Keng Swee,
Thailand, its Minister of Economic
Affairs, His Excellency Nai Kasek
Seiphayak. Japan’s representative will
be Mr Hajime Fukuda, Minister of In-
ternational Trade and Industry. At this
stage of the meeting, Australia may
learn if its contribution to the Colombo
Plan is likely to be significantly
increased. Since the plan was inaug-
urated in 1950, Australia's contributions
have totalled £43.6m. Up to last June,
4071 Colombo Plan students have come
to Australia; Indonesians have been the
biggest national group among them.
But our £43.6m. is a meagre contri-
bution when measured against the £173
m. spent by Canada, a country remote
from the area and with a population and
national income not greatly in excess of
our own. New Zealand’s total contribu-
tions of over £l3m. compare more than
favourably with Australia's, having
regard to relative populations. Japan, a
late-conier to the Plan, has already dis-
bursed £42.6m., some of it admittedly
in loans and credits.
Organisationally, the plan is novel. Its
only bureaucracy is a small Bureau in
Colombo, headed by a Japanese, Mr S.
Matsui and which is mainly concerned
with information activities. It has no
central budget or funds and no central
direction. All activities are carried out
through bilateral arrangements.
Its flexibility, together with the fact
that there has never been even the hint
of strings attached to aid, has made the
Colombo Plan the success it is. Any
attempt to erect it on the basis of a
central pool from which aid funds were
allocated would lead to despairing com-
plications in view of the political tensions
of the area. As it is. the Colombo Plan
is a paradox of laissez-faire arrange-
ments being used to promote planned
economic growth. In a certralised age,
it is a salutary reminder of the virtues
of informality.


OUT AND ABOUT
IS THE LOCAL ART MARKET "SOPHISTICATED?"
Finding out if local buyers buy pictures or artists
FROM CORRESPONDENTS IN LONDON AND SYDNEY
Two auctions of importance to
Australian art will be held this
month. On November 14 and
15 the Voss Smith collection will be
auctioned in Sydney. On November 7
the collection of Cubist and Post-Cubist
paintings and drawings, which belonged
to the late Dr John Joseph Warded
Power, is being sold at Sotheby’s, Lon-
don. Along with the Power collection,
Sotheby’s is offering a Picasso, “Les
Trois Baigneuses,” owned by Australian
musician, Mrs B. Hanson-Dyer, who
lives in Paris.
The auction of the Voss Smith collec-
tion will, in the opinion of Mr Frank
McDonald, a director of the Terry
Clune Galleries, be a test of the “sophis-
tication” of the Australian art market.
The Clune Galleries bought the col-
lection from Mr Voss Smith, managing
director in Australia of Hutchinson’s,
the British publishers, for something like
£30,000, a rather sophisticated piece of
business for a local private gallery to
carry off. Local buyers will be deemed
“sophisticated” if they are prepared to
pay the same sort of prices for English
and French artists, as they are for Aus-
tralian. English and French artists make
up a fair proportion of the collection of
150 paintings, which, for the auction,
has been augmented by 50 paintings
from other clients of the Clune Gal-
leries.
“We know that people here will pay
300 or 350 guineas for a Sali Herman,”
Mr McDonald said. “Will they , pay the
same sort of price for an overseas pic-,
ture, if they feel that visitors to their
house may peer at the signature and not
recognise it? We know the popularity of
Australian paintings. Do famous Euro-
pean and English artists command the
same enthusiastic awareness? This auc-
tion is our first chance to find out.
“I fear that the London galleries do
not expect the Australian buyers to be
sufficiently European-conscious to bid
up to world levels for the overseas
artists. Some of the London galleries
have asked us to bid for some of these
works.”
Mr McDonald said that the auction
was the first of importance in Sydney
since the Schureck sale in April.
Mr McDonald said that the day after
the Schureck auction, at which the Clune
Galleries spent £17,000 -on behalf of
clients, the galleries were approached by
Mr Smith who had at that stage more
or less decided to dispose of most of his
collection which he had been 30 years
putting together.
Mr McDonald said that the Voss
Smith collection presented a much more
even appearance than the Schureck. “Mr
Smith was a discerning buyer and man-
aged to get many pictures, such as the
Vignoies, which have increased rapidly
in value,” he said.
Mr Smith has now been left with a
Bernard Buffet and some 18th century
English paintings. He intends to begin
anew, concentrating perhaps on modern
French artists.
Mr McDonald said that the works to
be auctioned included 50 paintings from
clients, some of which had been in the
galleries and some had been offered by
clients when they heard of the auction.
These include a group of “St Kilda”
Sidney Nolans, dating from the early
forties when Mr Nolan lived at St Kilda.
A Nolan of this period went for £2OOO
in Melbourne recently.
There is also a very early Dobell, a
portrait of his mother, painted probably
at Julian Ashton’s in 1933. Mr Mc-
Donald said that the owner, a Sydney
doctor, had offered the painting to Mr
Dobell, saying he thought it might have
sentimental interest for the painter, and
offering to take “anything” of Dobell’s
in exchange. Mr Dobell didn’t answer
the letter, and when the Clune Galleries
mentioned it said, “Oh, yes, I remember
getting that letter and I wondered if he
was trying to put one over me.” So the
painting goes for auction.
There is also a Dobell nude and a
study for “The Dead Landlord,” the in-
cident from Mr Dobell’s life in London,
which inspired novelist Mr Patrick White
to write his play “The Ham Funeral.”
Mr McDonald also has in the galleries,
but not for sale, one of Mr Dobell’s
artistic jokes, a small study of “The
Not Quite Dead, Landlord,” the same
figure, but here alive enough to clutch a
glass of something. This Mr Dobell
painted recently for a friend.
Australian artists in the collection in-
clude Drysdale, Sali Herman, Kmit, Per-
ceval, Arthur Boyd and Clifton Pugh, as
well as Nolan and Dobell.
There is a crayon drawing by Picasso,
which Mr McDonald thinks may be
worth about 250 guineas, small drawings
by Marie Laurencin and Gauguin, some


pen drawings by Reynolds, a small
painting by actress Sarah Bernhardt and
some 18th century English water colors.
Mr McDonald said that if the auction
were successful, he and his co-director,
Mr Clune, at present overseas and mis-
sing the excitement, might decide that
the gallery could hold one perhaps every
18 months.
Mr McDonald pointed out that an
auction has several virtues which sale by
private treaty does not. Auction offers
less commission but quicker turnover.
“We know that on November 15 a
certain painting will be sold and we will
know then how much it is worth,” he
said. “Normally, if some of these paint-
ings came in here we might have to hold
them for years before they were sold.
For instance, the William Etty nude.
The Gallery of NSW might say it was
interested, but couldn’t afford it with
this year's budget, and so on. But people
will have to make up their minds on
auction day or miss out.”
Mr McDonald said that the local
market has not yet reached the stage of
sophistication when a gallery can —as
it can overseas resell something in
the afternoon for twice the price it paid
for it in the morning. “At most we can
add about 30 per cent, although is is just
good luck to resell immediately,” he said.
“We might be left with the painting for
10 years.”
After an auction, a gallery does not
have to work out complicated commis-
sions. On November 15 the Clune Gal-
leries will just have to take £30.000
away from the total paid by bidders for
the collection. (As well, the galleries can
make commissions for buying paintings
at the auction on behalf of clients). On
the other hand, if they have misjudged
the market and the collection goes for
less than £30,000, they will know exactly
how much they have lost.
However, Mr McDonald does not
seem worried about that, although he
promised that the auction would yield
some bargains for discriminating buyers.
The Bulletin’s London office reports
that the keenest interest in the Power
collection of Cubist and Post-cubist
paintings and drawings seems tc be Con-
tinental, or American. British collectors
are not showing much enthusiasm.
According to Sotheby’s, the collection
is “a visual history of the evolution of
Cubism, and almost all of the principal
exponents are represented.” These in-
clude Picasso (two small pencil draw-
ings), Gris, Leger, Metzinger, Marcous-
sis, Gleizes, Laurens, Ozenfant and
Herbin. To some viewers, the collection
seems to be of greater value in its sum
than in its parts.
Sotheby’s report a steady stream of
private viewers wanting to see the col-
lection. These are mainly collectors,
artists and art historians. Few are dealers
or speculators.
The French are interested, of course.
Power capsuled the period that led to
the formation of the Abstraction-Crea-
tion group, of which he was a committee
member. Many of the younger lights of
this time are still around the place and
their interests could be nostalgic as much
as speculative.
THE BAREFOOT BIOGRAPHER
Douglas Lockwood, the horn spinner of yarns
By KEITH WILLEY
Douglas Lockwood was half-
heartedly digging his garden
when along came an ageing
Huckleberry Finn, barefooted and shirt-
less, carrying a huge barramundi.
“Good-day,” said Lockwood. “Good-
day,” replied the fisherman. On admiring
the size of the barramundi, Lockwood
was immediately offered it. And after
a bit of arguing to and fro (“You have
it” . . . No you have it” . . .) he invited
his visitor inside.
The fisherman took one look at the
room, polished and shining, with
cushioned chairs, and paintings on the
walls. He jacked up. “Not on your life,”
he said. “I can’t go in there without
shoes on.” Lockwood promptly took off
his own boots and, both barefooted, they
cooked the barramundi and ate it to-
gether.
Thus Lockwood, prizewinning journal-
ist and author, met Bill Harney, poet,
raconteur, bush cook, and walking
dictionary on the lives and habits of the
Northern Territory aborigines. Both
Lockwood and Harney have risen to
fame and modest fortune. Each has
done much for the other. And Harney’s
pleasure at Lockwood’s many prizes is
matched only by the pride and delight
which Lockwood takes in “Billarney’s”
poetry.
Lockwood is not a controversial writer,
nor is he a crusader. His opinions, by and
large, are the conventional ones. He is
a born spinner of yarns, the gifted story-
teller. And he has shown signs of
greater eminence with his first pub-
lished book, “I, The Aboriginal”, which
won the £1250 Adelaide Festival of
Arts literary competition.
Though an established author, Lock-
wood remains at heart a journalist, and
still covers his 523,000 square mile
Northern Territory “beat” for the Mel-
bourne “Herald”.
While working around Victoria as a
youthful reporter and for a while
co-proprietor of a country sheet, Douglas
Lockwood regularly called on Sir Keith
Murdoch at the Melbourne “Herald”.
Murdoch never refused to see him. Each
time Lockwood would ask for a job, but
the press tycoon always told him he was
too young and needed experience.
In 1940, at Mildura, where he was
earning £6/15/- a week as a general
reporter on the “Sunraysia Daily”, a
letter arrived from Sir Keith Murdoch:
“Dear Douglas, I think it is time you
joined our staff. What do you think?”
From then on Lockwood was “a Herald
man”.
In 1941, aged 23, Lockwood had
what proved to be his great chance
and he took it. The Darwin posting then
was regarded as a sort of exile, a back-
water, full of deadbeats and rotgut
whisky. Nobody wanted it, and in 1941.
with Japan on the march, it was even
less popular. But Lockwood grabbed it.
Told it was a post for a married man,
he said to “Herald” editor Archer
Thomas: “Will you give me 10 minutes?”
He phoned Ruth, a girl he had met in
Mildura, proposed, and was accepted.
They went to Darwin together and are
still there.
The Darwin of 20 years ago, besides
being sordid, smelly, bottle-rich and
cash-poor, was the scene of one of Lock-
wood’s rare professional failures. From
“a three-inch-deep trench in the front-
yard into which I found I fitted, with
room to spare,” Lockwood saw the first
Japanese bombs rain down on Australian
soil, killing hundreds. He had the scoop
of the century, but no way to get it out.
The Post Office had been destroyed, with
most of its staff, and by the time Lock-
wood managed to wire his message
through Katherine, days later, the news
was stale.
In April, 1954, Lockwood got his
greatest news scoop when, amid dramatic
scenes at Darwin Airport, Mrs. Evdokia
Petrov made her decision to stay in Aus-
tralia and seek political asylum. Lock-
wood had taken the precaution of
advising the Melbourne “Herald” to
phone him every half-hour from six
o’clock on.
Thus he got his story away in 30-
minute “takes” while other journalists
seethed helplessly, prevented from filing
their copy by an official jam on outgoing
calls.
In 1957 he won his first prize—£l2so
given by the London “Evening News”
for “the world’s strangest story.” This
was the beginning of the big-time. In
London to collect his award Lockwood
met Desmond Flower, managing director
of Cassell and Co., who asked him to
write a book. The result, Crocodiles
and Other People”, appeared in 1959.
“Fair Dinkum” followed ir 1960 and
“Life on the Daly River” (in collabora-
tion with Nancy Polishuk) in 1961.


“Can 1 quote you on that?”
“For someone who’s been superseded by automation.”
“I’d like to quit all this and go and live in Tahiti.”
FIVE
MIDDYS
sk'W>4


V::'W
4.:
SB
m
' .
'•
O
A
6
u
a
o
c
t v .
Q(
mm m
DIAL INTO
DAY
wr fIA
INTERNAL PHONE SYSTEMS
10, 15, 20, 25, 50 St 100 LINES
The most economica 5-to-exparad
system in Australia
STC Private Automatic Exchange (PAX) Systems
are self-contained, require no operator, and
work from the electric mains. They provide rapid
internal communication within an organisation and
assure complete privacy and security to all
conversations. Further, basic installations of 15,
20 and 25 lines can each be economically expanded
up to double the number of extensions without
replacement of equipment. Special features include
Loudspeaking telephones, Priority Facility for
Executives, Direct Access Executive Systems,
Secretarial Systems, Credit Authorisation, Central
Dictation, etc. Call in STC for free survey and
sound advice on your telephone needs.
Standard Telephones and Cables Ply. Ltdl
HEAD OFFICE: 252-274 Botany Road, Alexandria, N.S.W. 69 0444.
QLD.: 113-121 Boundary Street, West End, Brisbane. 4 1771.
A.C.T.: 39 Empire Circuit, Forrest. Canberra 91043.
VIC.: 174 King Street, Melbourne. 60 1406.
S.A.: Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., Adelaide. 51 3731.
IT!
ASSOCIATE
W.A.: M. J. Bateman Pty. Ltd., Perth. 21 2951.
TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty. Ltd., Launceston, Hobart, Burnie,
Devon port.
Representatives
NEWCASTLE: Newcastle Automatic Signals Pty. Ltd.,
116 Lawson Street, Hamilton, Newcastle. Phone 615172.
WOLLONGONG: A.E.S. (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Unanderra, N.S.W.
Phone U 9154.
CANBERRA: Hackett Radio & Television Pty. Ltd. Box 456, P.O.
Phone X 1369.
EISOA


DEFENCE
TURNING INDONESIA INTO
A PACIFIC CUBA?
Wanted: A Call Up Of At Least 20,000 A Year?
By SIR WILFRID KENT HUGHES
The world spotlight has been
focused on Cuba and the Carib-
bean Sea, where recent events
have produced a world tension of the
greatest magnitude since 1945. In many
respects the last few weeks have been
similar to the mid-thirties at the time
of Hitler’s March on the Rhine with,
at the time of writing, the prospects of
a very different result. The former was
the beginning of World War 11.
The minority demonstrations, mainly
by students, in Latin America, London
and elsewhere, against American Em-
bassies, are part of the standard Com-
niunist pressure propaganda. Being
classified as “unusual” by the Press, they
have received first priority in newsreels
and photographs, while the vast major-
ity, who disagree with them, have ap-
peared to be almost inarticulate.
In the meantime, another standard
Communist practice appears to have
been forgotten, namely to apply the
pressure elsewhere, while the attention
of the world is concentrated on Cuba or
some other spot, such as Berlin,
Australians, therefore, do not seem to
realise that part of the Russian strategy
for world conquest is to turn Indonesia
into the Cuba of the Pacific. Under the
pretext of supplying Indonesia with arms
and equipment for the conquest of West
New Guinea, Russia has been, and is,
pressuring her objective in the East, even
though checked in the West.
The Federal Government never real-
ised their change of policy on West New
Guinea implied in the Indonesian-Aus-
tralian communique issued after Dr
Subandrio’s visit to Australia in Janu-
ary/February, 1959. In that document
Australia placed the question of sover-
eignty of West New Guinea as first
priority, and self-determination for the
Papuans, in effect, became a Shangri-la,
unlikely ever to be discovered.
Recent events have underlined this
fact. The ink on the Indonesian-Dutch
Agreement was hardly dry before Dr
Soekarno announced that his interpreta-
tion of the self-determination clauses
was “internal,” as understood by In-
donesia, not “external” as understood by
others. Now the President has gone
one step further and announced that
Papuan leaders—hand-picked no doubt
—have asked for immediate integration
into the Indonesian “Republic.”
Since last October the Australian
Government has brushed aside the
warnings that Russia was endeavoring
to turn Indonesia into the Cuba of the
Pacific, and set out on a course of
policy which they felt would woo In-
donesia away from Russia into closer
friendship with Australia.
The change in the Government's
policy was obvious after Sir Garfield
Barwick’s statement about “No Emerg-
ency” when Dr Soekarno threatened to
use force as an instrument of blackmail
at the end of last year. This was fol-
lowed by a clumsy “leak” at a Press
conference in mid-January, which re-
sulted in strong criticism, and the leak
was officially denied.
In mid-February the Minister for
Defence, in a speech in Hobart, refer-
red to Indonesia as Australia’s “bastion”
against a Red Chinese Empire, with its
southern base in Singapore. At the
time this seemed to be a most inept sug-
gestion, and cannot have created good-
will in South-East Asia. In April the USA
switched from the Luns to the Brunker
proposals for a West New Guinea
settlement, and later both the Ministers
for Defence and External Affairs visited
Indonesia, at the time when paratroopers
were being dropped in New Guinea.
Statements made in Parliament by the
Ministers on their return were weak and
full of excuses.
Finally, Dean Rusk, the American
Secretary of State, was reported in the
papers as addressing the American
House of Representatives Appropriations
Sub-Committee on 29th August:
“Mr Rusk said Australia had agreed
with the broad lines of approach in
the Brunker proposals. ‘There was a
time when they were quite concerned
about what might happen in New
Guinea . . (At that point the dis-
cussion was placed off record.).”
In the light of Ministerial protestations
to the contrary, this must rank as a most
unusual Press report.
All Australians wish to be friends with
Indonesia, but in consideration of sub-
sequent events and the recent statements
of Dr Soekarno, surely the Ministers
must be having second thoughts on their
experiment.
Indonesia is still continuing the build-
up of her armed forces against “colon-
ialism and imperialism” (Dr Soekarno’s
own phraseology). Other Indonesians


have said “No more territorial ambi-
tions.” They may be sincere, but who
rules Indonesia? Dr Soekarno and the
two million Communist Party (PKI)
under Mr Aidit —or the moderates?
Many competent observers agree that
the Indonesian victory in West New
Guinea now Irian Bahrat has in-
creased the prestige of both President
Soekarno and the Communist Party to
the detriment of General Nasution and
his supporters in the Army.
However much Australia desires to
be friends with Indonesia, it seems we
must be on our guard against the stand-
ard practice of the Communists, describ-
ed by Lord Home, the British Foreign
Secretary, as “Double-Dealing,” until
such time as the PKI are treated in the
same way as the Masjumi (the Muslim
Party), and banned. Sjahrir, the leader
of the Socialist Party, and Dr Soekarno’s
right-hand man in the struggle for
independence, has been under arrest
since January last, and the Masjumi
has been banned.
Australia an outpost
As no aggressor is in sight anywhere
in this region, there is no cause for
anything but alarm in Australia until
Indonesia reduces her armed services
to a reasonable size compatible with
her Empire boundaries.
Recent reports in Indonesia about
border incidents and the shelling of
Indonesian ships in the Timor area are
as reminiscent of Hitler’s tactics against
Czechoslovakia as is the cry “No further
territorial ambitions.” Dr Subandrio
last week denied that Indonesia has any
design on Portuguese Timor, but as
Foreign Secretary he has, as compared
with General Nasution, been suspected
of “fence-sitting”.
Surely the Australian Government
must be giving grave consideration to a
few vital questions.
Is Russia turning Indonesia into the
Cuba of the Pacific in order to outflank
America in South-East Asia, turn Aus-
tralia into an isolated outpost in the
South-West Pacific, and pursue her
further aims of conquest eastwards
across the Pacific?
Why have Russian papers and maga-
zines, such as Trud and Tass News-
agency, been recently attacking Austra-
lia?
Has Russia told Indonesia she must
take the rest of the order for “hardware”
for her armed services, and how will she
pay for them? Is this insistence on pay-
ment an attempt to wreck completely
Indonesia’s shaky economy, so that the
Communists will benefit by the debacle?
If America and Australia assist in re-
storing economic stability, will Dr
Soekarno still side with the Russians?
Who has Indonesia to fear that she
must spend 60 per cent, of her Budget
on her Armed Forces? Surely not smug-
glers or Sulu pirates?
Has Russia armed, equipped and
trained the members of the Indonesian
Communist Party, 2,000,000 strong?
Why was it reported as an important
news item that a representative of the
“Australian Building Trade Union Fed-
eration” at a recent Australian-Indonesian
Trade Union Conference in Indonesia
had accused Australia of establishing
U-2 bases?
The pattern of Communist practice
and policy is so true to form that, much
as we may regret it, Australia cannot
afford to remain practically defenceless
in the face of such unfriendly evidence.
Nor can we expect others to come to
our rescue in case of emergency, when
we are the richest and one of the most
lightly taxed peoples of the Western
world, with the lowest percentage of
Defence expenditure in relation to our
annual gross national production.
No wonder so many MPs supported,
in the recent debate on the Defence Esti-
mates, the appeal by the National Execu-
tive of the RSL to the Government that
“in these uncertain times it is essential
that this -country faces the need for a
reasonable reserve of trained and semi-
trained manpower.”
The Prime Minister and the Govern-
ment are to be congratulated on their
swift and firm statement on Cuba and
their later expression of sympathy with
India in the border struggles against the
aggressive Red Chinese, but words and
sympathy are not enough.
Without presuming to teach experts
their job, it would appear that the Navy,
now weaker than in 1939, and the
RAAF must be strengthened. In the
Army the first priority must be to bring
the three ARA battalion battle groups up
to full strength, with both first and second
reinforcements fully trained and equip-
ped. The second priority, for which
funds must be found even if it means
increased taxation, is the CMF. How
can they be effective with a 30 per cent,
to 40 per cent, wastage each year in
other ranks? It would take probably six
months continuous training before they
would be operational and even then they
would not have modern equipment. The
RSL should be strongly supported in
their request for the restoration of
Service Training, which is of
excellent value for civilian life as well as
for defence.
With a call-up of 20,000 per year for
at least one year’s continuous training,
followed up by two years in the CMF,
this would give Australia the two divi-
sions of trained personnel we are sup-
posed to have for home defence, though,
in my opinion, they should be available
for overseas service as well. As the
call-up would have to be selective, suit-
able rehabilitation benefits must also be
granted.
Under existing conditions Australia
cannot afford not to find the extra ex-
penditure. Surely those in office on both
sides of Parliament, who were in similar
positions in the late ’thirties, are not
happy to gamble once again on Aus-
tralia’s security?
THE WHITE RUSSIAN REFUGEES
After 40 years of persecution, they have reached Australia—
and need help fast
By EUGENE BAJKOWSKI
rpHE official United Nations definition is crisp and precise : a refugee
-•**- “is anyone who has fled from his country for reasons of political or
religious persecution, or justifiable fear of such persecution, or who has
sought asylum after crossing the frontier of his country”.
Australia’s particular concern at the
moment is with the “Wfiite” Russian
refugees now arriving here —one of the
oldest refugee groups in the world. The
word “White” originated as a political
word to distinguish them from the “Red”
Russians at the time of the Russian Revo-
lution of 1917-24. They were the millions
of homeless and destitute Russians who
soon spread all over the world, many
settling in the United States, in Western
Europe, in friendly Yugoslavia and in the
vast, under-populated and wealthy neigh-
bouring Manchuria. (Ever since, they
have been confused with the ethnical
White Russians —really White Ruthen-
ians or Byelorussians—who are a distinct
Slavic nation neighbouring the Russians,
Ukrainians, Lithuanians and Poles, and
famed for its beautiful flaxen-haired
women).
The ones coming to Australia now are
easily some of the most long-suffering,
patient, hard-working and deserving
migrants ever to come here. But they
need help and must be helped at once.
In 1948-50 large numbers of White
Russians arrived from Eastern and
Northern China—Tientsin, Peking, Han-
kow, Shanghai and Canton. A few
managed to fly out from Mukden and
Changchun in Manchuria, already sur-
rounded by Mao’s armies. Almost 20,000
Russians were evacuated by the 1.R.0.


Mi
Always ask for
AINSLIES
SCOTCH WHISKY
AGENTS:
Pitt, Son & Badgery Ltd., Sydney
Halloran Manton Pty. Ltd.
from China before it was overrun by the
Communists, and about half of them
came here under two year “work-back”
contracts to the Australian Government
after spending some time in transit
camps in the Philippines. These people
had the advantage of speaking workable,
often excellent, English and over the
last ten or twelve years have become
some of Australia’s best integrated
migrants. Their quick adjustment and
rapid material progress is remarkable
considering their vastly different environ-
ment in China.
Russians who still were left in Man-
churia were not so lucky. After 14 years
of brutal Japanese rule in the puppet
“Manchudikuo Empire” they were run
over by the Soviet Army which had
occupied Manchuria for about a year
after Japan's collapse in August, 1945.
At first Soviet troops were welcomed
as liberators by both Chinese and
Russians. But soon numerous cases of
looting, rape and the NKVD terror had
revealed the true face of this “libera-
tion”. NKVD squads stalked the land,
seizing “counter-revolutionaries”, real
and imagined collaborators, specialists
needed in the USSR and any people sus-
pected of hostile attitude to the Soviet
Government. Almost 15,000 people were
arrested. Most of them were deported
to the USSR and sentenced to long terms
in labour camps. The NKVD hunted
down many former White Guard and
Cossack generals, officers and men who
had fought against the communists as
far back as the Russian Civil War.
After the Soviet Army left, taking with
it most of Manchuria’s industrial plants
(classed as “war booty”), x half of Man-
churia was occupied by Mao's “People’s
Liberation Army”. For a moment it
seemed that Chiang Kai-shek’s advancing
forces would take over the whole of
Manchuria. But the Nationalists suffered
a series of severe reverses and Man-
churia remained under Communist rule.
In Manchuria the Chinese Com-
munist rule was particularly severe. The
security police was tougher, living con-
ditions worse, political pressures more
intense, the land reform and “suppression
of counter-revolutionaries” more brutal.
And then there was the constant pressure
to “return to the homeland”, i.e., the
USSR, which it took tremendous courage
to resist.
For a very long while, after most
foreigners had already left the rest of
China, the Communist authorities in
Manchuria grimly held on to their
Russians, refusing them exit visas. Jobs
were scarce. Old' possessions —sadly de-
pleted during the years of war and
Japanese occupation had to be sold
to eke out a living. Cottages had to be
given away because of exorbitant taxes.
By 1956 the only employment to be had
was with some Communist organisation
or a “co-operative” institution. Pay was
poor and rations low.
Soon real tragedy struck. In 1958-59
Peking established its “People’s Com-
munes” and started the “Great Leap
Forward”. Food quickly disappeared,
consumer goods supplies failed, police
terror increased. As successive crops
failed and the scatter-brain scheme of
producing pig-iron in the backyards dis-
rupted the nation’s transport and left
the crops unharvested— peasants were
diverted to pig-iron smelting from agri-
culture —famine gripped the once-pros-
perous Manchuria. Life was particularly
grim for Russian farmers along the
Chinese Eastern Railway Line running
right across Manchuria. Everybody was
put on starvation rations —slightly over
26 pounds of coarse corn flower and
about an ounce of crude vegetable oil a
month for an adult. Children received
less.
Fortunately, the Russians were allowed
one great privilege. Each family,
irrespective of size, was allowed to keep
one horse, one cow and some marginal
land. They were also allowed to grow a
bit of food crops for themselves, use
the cow’s milk and occasionally to keep
a few pigs and use their meat for food.
No other slaughter of livestock for food
was permitted and all new-born calves
and colts had to be scrupulously
reported. These concessions allowed
many to survive. The Chinese peasants
fared far worse and are literally starving
and eating grass and leaves.
As relations between Peking and Mos-
cow which has been urging a slowing
down of the industrialisation drive —•
gradually deteriorated, the attitude of
Communist officials to the Russians
worsened. People were arrested for
having wireless sets, for having “hostile
opinions”, etc.
“Surplus” population
T ast February, in the face of crop
failures, floods, widespread famine,
curtailment of deliveries from the
Soviet-bloc countries and a virtual in-
dustrial collapse, vthe Chinese Communist
Party decided on drastic measures. At
first its meagre stockpiles of consumer
goods were released on city markets.
They were rushed and quickly dis-
appeared. This mopped up the popula-
tion’s purchasing power.
Immediately afterwards the Govern-
ment announced a new 10-point
economic policy, stopping a major
portion of industrial undertakings in
Manchuria, sacking surplus workers and
beginning depopulation of cities. Harbin,
with a population of 3,500,000, is now
to become a city of 700,000, with most
of its factories closed down and its work-
force scattered. City transport is being
reduced by 40 per cent. “Surplus popula-
tion” is being sent into country areas,
allowed to take along only what it can
carry on its back.
In these circumstances the “White”
Russians were suddenly issued with exit
visas and told to leave straight away. If
they stayed behind they might never get
an exit visa again. So they are now
streaming into Australia —destitute, hag-
gard but happy to get out. In one week
recently 155 arrived in Sydney. Another
1000 will soon be on their way to the
Bonegilla Migrant Reception Centre.
The Commonwealth Government
deserves praise for the humanitarian way
in which it has handled the applications
of these unfortunate people for Aus-
tralian visas. Many of them are elderly
people, some in a poor state of health.
All are penniless.
The Russian Orthodox Church, headed
by Archbishop Sava, has been allowed
to sponsor a large number of Russian
migrants but it has no funds to assist
them once they arrive in Australia. Some
3500 still have to be brought out from
Manchuria before the Peking regime
changes its mind.
Fares are being paid by the World
Council of Churches in Geneva, the Aus-
tralian Council of Churches and the
Inter-governmental Committee for Euro-
pean Migration. Migrants are expected
to repay the WCC’s travel loan as soon
as they start earning in Australia, and
the vast majority of them do.


/-
u
Pink
_ I>I3VK
r MAMPACiN®
for
girls
If she says "gorgeous”, "delightful”, "heavenly”,
chances are it's Romalo Pink Champagne. A gay,
scintillating wine for joyous times ... for parties,
weddings and ever-so-special dinners for two.
All over the world sophisticates celebrate with Pink
Champagne. Australia's finest is Romalo.
Trade Enquiries: S. Wynn & Co. Pty. Ltd.
348 St. Hilda Road, Melbourne
There are many hard cases. Firstly,
there are the destitute elderly people.
About 160 are living in old people’s
homes set up with the aid of the Aus-
tralian Council of Churches in Strath-
field, Cabramatta and Campbelltown,
where there is also a small Russian
Orthodox Monastery. But more are
coming, and Miss E. Needham, Associ-
ate Resettlement Director of the Aus-
tralian Council of Churches in Sydney,
said that funds were urgently required
for more old people’s homes.
One of the problems is that the newly
arrived Russian migrants are not eligible
for most normal Social Service benefits.
If it had not been for the Australian
Council of Churches, the United Nations
and some private relief handouts many
of them would have been starving. Their
sponsors, many of whom had suffered in
the recent economic recession, find it
difficult to support them. It is also
difficult for the latest batch of arrivals
to find work because their English is
very poor and they are mainly sub-
sistence farmers with few other skills.
Real poverty
T have learnt of several hardship cases.
A Family A consists of Mr A aged 65,
his wife aged 61 and their unmarried
daughter, aged 40. All were sponsored
by the Russian Orthodox Church. Soon
after their arrival Mr A was discovered
to be suffering from TB. He is still in
hospital. His wife began working in a
hospital, but soon also developed TB.
The same thing happened to their
daughter. Now both mother and
daughter have been discharged, but were
unable to find work. They have to live
on a £4 2s. 6d. Commonwealth Sickness
Benefit for which the daughter has
qualitied having been in employment for
a few weeks. Mrs A at 61 is too old
for an unemployment benefit and not
eligible for either old age pension or
sickness benefit being no longer sick or
“employable’’. The two women are
living in a furnished room for which
they pay £4 a week in rent. Were it not
for the assistance from the Australian
Council of Churches, which pays their
rent, they would have been starving. And
had they remained in China they would
have been dead.
Or take the case of Mrs B, a widow
of 38, and with five children aged 15
to three. The father died in China after
the Australian visas were granted but
before the Communists gave them per-
mission to leave. Mrs B earns £ll/10/-
a week and receives £2/5/- child endow-
ment. She rents an old house for <£B a
week, and sub-lets a room to an elderly
couple looking after her children while
she is at work for £3 a week. This
leaves her £B/15/- a week for food
clothing and incidentals for a family of
six. The mother and children are under-
nourished but ineligible for any assist-
ance.
Equally pathetic is the case of Mr P,
fiftyish, looking neat and even distin-
guished in his only set of clothes. Mr P
is a widower, a qualified accountant, and
once a prosperous import-export trader.
He arrived from Harbin, where he
worked as a bookkeeper in a bakery, last
September. Quietly, in a matter of fact
voice, he gave a graphic account of the
economic chaos in Manchuria and des-
cribed how thousands of people roam
the streets suffering from a dreaded
starvation disease. Despite his good
English he has been unable to find a
job as a clerk and is working as a laborer
in a foundry—a job for which he is much
too weak after many years of malnutri-
tion. His heart condition does not permit
him to work physically, yet he must
go on.
A clean but shabby weatherboard cot-
tage in the industrial Sydney suburb of
South Granville is crowded with two
Russian families—four adults and fifteen
children ranging from 15 to two. Another
child is on the way. They wear faded
out, old-fashioned clothing, but are clean
and pleasant looking. They belong to the
pious Russian Orthodox “Old Believers”
sect, do not smoke and observe many
fasts. Three are working—the men in a
timber yard and in a factory, the woman
as a machine seamstress. Total wages
come to about £44 a week for 19 people,
including a pregnant woman. Rent is
£lO a week.
A question of happiness
"KTone complain even the most des-
titute. All are happy to be out of
China. Despite obvious hardship, these
hard-working people do not expect any
charity. They are surprised when
they receive their small child en-
dowment or sickness benefits cheques.
They all repeat that life here is
easy compared with what they were
going through in China. They feel
no resentment for the Chinese, by the
way. All the Russians I had interviewed
spoke with sympathy and understanding
about the simple Chinese folk with whom
they had rubbed shoulders for so long.
But the problem does not end there.
The question is how long will these
people remain happy and what is going
to happen to those who are yet to come.
Our standards cannot be judged by what
is happening in Communist China—it
is against Australia's humanitarian tradi-
tions and against her enlightened self-
interest to let these people lead a sub-
standard existence.
The “White - ’ Russians should make
good migrants, at a time when good
migrants are becoming increasingly dif-
ficult to get. They are hard-working,
loyal, quick to learn. The majority are
farmers and could be settled in country
areas. Most of them would be happy to
work on the farms or live in small
country towns. They have many young
children, most of which live up to the
Immigration Department's ideal of blond,
blue-eyed Europeans.
Fortunately, the Australian Red Cross
recently acquired the authority to extend
its activities, previously restricted to Aus-
tralian ex-servicemen and women and
their families, to some of the “White”
Russian migrants.
The Commonwealth and State autho-
rities should also find a way to give some
material assistance to the more needy
migrants from Communist China.
Australia has been fortunate enough
to escape most of the ravages of war and
of the results of the communist bid for
world domination.
These people have lived all their lives
during continuous wars, political op-
pression and racial persecution.
Few would object if a bit more is done
for escapees from the consequences of
Comrade Mao's pipe-dreams than is
provided for in the books.


AUSTRALIAN PRIME MINISTERS^
JOSEPH COOK
The incredible Prime Minister
By M. H. ELLSS
No jury with the facts before it would
hesitate to proclaim Joseph Cook
the strangest of all Prime Ministers
and the strangest of the early Labor
men. Yet, in a guessing competition,
nobody would have selected him as a
Labor man at all, but might have chosen
him as an old-time British Prime Min-
ister out of a play and sitting in the
House of Lords.
Looking back on him he is an incred-
ible figure. He was born in 1860 at
Silverdale, Staffordshire. He worked in
the coalmines from early youth. Charac-
teristically, he had no painful reminis-
cences about the horrors of coalmining
in the “earlies". I once asked him about
it and he replied with his curious smile
that coalmining was an occupation for
a philosopher.
He came to Australia in 1885 and
went almost at once to the Lithgow coal-
fields I fancy he was part of a con-
tingent of workers recruited for the New
South' Wales mines. He had somehow
educated himself through thoughtful
reading, his taste for which he attributed
to the fact that he had been born in
Dr Johnson’s county. He also had
learned, as a lay preacher in the Wes-
leyan Methodist Church, the art of public
speaking. It was largely through this
latter aptitude that he became General
Secretary of the Western Miners’ Asso-
ciation.
He was a strange contrast to the fiery
and bitter Curley on the Northern fields,
but he certainly had command of the
Flartlcy miners and they sent him to
Parliament in the first batch of Labor
members who, to their own astonishment,
found themselves elected to the New
South Wales Legislative Assembly in
1891.
His photograph at that time exhibits
him as a fine-looking man with a dark,
well-trimmed beard and imposing quan-
tity of bald forehead exposing an im-
pressive skull conformation. He was tall
and well-carried. He was all too regular
in feature, form and speech. He had
good hands and a bright smiling eye.
He was never anybody’s tool, though
he was often somebody’s willing instru-
ment. He was consistent. He began as a
Free Trader, he ended privately a Free
Trader, though serving Protection because
he followed the will of the majority. He
had a resilience unparalleled in Aus-
tralian political history.
From the first, Joe Cook had no
trouble about seats. He just won them
and kept them. Fie won Hartley in 1891;
he was still in the seat when Federation
came and he changed to the Federal
Seat of Parramatta. He won the Parra-
matta seat in the Federal Parliament in
1901 by 5,778 votes to 3,646. In 1919,
his last election, he won it by 27,000 to
10,205, and was a little sad about it,
since it was the first time since his elec-
tion that he had not gone well on the
way to doubling his majority which
had been 17,300 in a poll of 38,000
in 1917.
When he had been in the New South
Wales Labor Party about two years,
Labor suffered a debacle and a good
many of the elected of 1891 bit the
dust. Not Joe Cook. He was, by this
time, leader of the Free Trade section
of the Party and appeared at the Party
Conference of 1893 on the solidarity
pledge as its representative, with Watson
representing the Trades and Labor
Council.
It was at that conference that the
youthful Holman moved that every candi-
date who ran in the Labor interest should
be required “to pledge himself not only
to the fighting platform and the Labor
Platform” but also to give a solid vote
on every occasion affecting the Labor
Party, the fate of the Ministry, mono-
poly or the conferring of further privi-
leges on the already privileged classes.
W. M. Hughes, newly elected, was a
fiery protagonist of this measure to give
solidity to a Party which resembled, at
that time, a bunch of dandelions tied
on a string in a high breeze. But the
equable leader of the Free Trade section
smiled his engaging smile and remarked:
“The pledge destroys the representative
character of a member and abrogates
the electoral privileges of a constituency.”
He smiled again when Hughes responded
that “the repression of the individual will
involved does not concern us, because
no one is bound to come into the Move-
ment or forced to remain in it.”
Still smiling, being apprised by
Hughes's remark that democracy had
reached its twilight in the Labor Party
and that the dawn of socialism within it
was imminent, he withdrew to the ranks
of the Labor independents, though as
their leader he presently was foremost
in bringing about some sort of unity so
that the next election campaign might
not appear to the electors too ragged
and disunited on the Labor side.
George Reid, who led the Opposition,
was certainly not ungrateful for the help
of the Labor independents. Even if he
and they were not at the moment suc-
cessful in casting forth the reluctant
Dibbs, they at least produced a majority
of 69 to 48 on a resolution which led
to the exits of Barton and R. E. O’Con-
nor the Solicitor - General both of
them afterwards High Court Judges
and split the Government Party.
Cook had especially impressed him all
along and when, the following July,
Dibbs retired in high dudgeon to the
political shades after the Governor had
refused to appoint a leviathan bookie
whom he recommended to the Legis-
lative Council, Cook found himself on
the side of the angels along with other
Labor people in general, including three
prime ministers of the Commonwealth
himself, Watson and Hughes. He himself
was graded Archangel and offered the
portfolio of the Postmaster-General in
Reid's ministry. He, no doubt, found
his acceptance of this reward and his
final parting with Labor less painful be-
cause the “solid’’ section of the Party
had not shown itself grateful for his
work in helping to give the Party
cohesion at the 1894 poll.
Led by Hughes and Holman, indeed,
it exhibited its naked ingratitude by
opposing him in Hartley when he went
up for re-election, in accordance with the
custom of the time, on being chosen for
the Ministry.
It was no coincidence surely that about
the first important measure Reid put
forward was the Coal Mines Regulation
Bill.
Escape into the Reid Party or rather
into his own party within the Reid
Party had the most beneficent effect
on Joe Cook's career. And in passing, be
it said, thanks largely to The Bulletin,
he had become known generally as
Jo-Cook, his enemies pronouncing his
name as if it were the cry of an injured
mopoke, which didn't worry him at all.
He professed a great respect for mopokes
and rejoiced when one frequented his
farm.
By being out of the Labor Party he
escaped the main asperities of the cam-
paign for Federation which were con-
vulsing that Party within. By sitting very
quiet and minding his own business,
whenever necessary, he did not become
tangled too deeply for his own good in
the complexities of George Reid's Federa-
tion acrobatics. He is not mentioned in
Deakin's Federal Story. He does not
appear in Reynolds’ Life of Barton prior
to Federation, save incidentally as a
product of the old Sydney School of
Arts Debating Society. Garran in his
Prosper the Commonwealth has naught
to say of him till he has become Federal
Prime Minister. And Billy Hughes is
very cautious in his references to him.
He had need to be, for on occasion Joe


could be trenchant in dealing with Billy’s
arguments. He was, for instance, from
the Ministerial Bench w'hen Billy advo-
cated the legalisation of Sunday trading
which the immortal Willis of Barwon
was trying to effect through the intro-
duction of a private Bill. Billy gave this
measure ardent support on the argument
that all the House was being asked to
do was to legalise acts which were already
habitually practised by the public.
Billy—an ancient vulture
“TTe is prepared,” said Joe in his mild-
est accents tempered by a sunny
smile, “to legalise Sunday trading simply
because Sunday trading takes place. He
will legalise a thing, and continue it,
simply because it is. That is a splendid
argument to come from one of the
champion reformers of the country, a
man who wants to overturn things be-
cause he is dissatisfied with them as he
finds them! . . . The same argument would
support the contention that because
murder and thieving and other crimes
took place in the community they should
be legalised.”
“Sunday trading has public approval,”
Billy snarled back, “crimes have not.”
But he was never happy with Joe to the
end of the latter’s political career and
was glad to get him away to London at
the last.
After Joe died, Archie Cameron and
I lured Billy into a post-mortem dis-
cussion of him. Archie asked if Billy
had ever been frightened that Joe might
undermine him in the late war years.
“Brother,” said Billy looking like an
ancient vulture, “I was not frightened
that he would undermine me. Smother
me, yes but not undermine me! Every
night, brother, I used to have a night-
mare that I had a pillow over my face,
and that I woke up and found it was
Joe! Yes, brother! Smother’s the word!
But he was loyal, brother, loyal!”
In plain fact Joe was as faithful a
servant in Billy’s, as earlier in Reid’s,
ministry as he could have hoped for.
The great feature about him as a sub-
ordinate was that he was not demanding
of credit and that he kept his ambitions
to himself and well in check. He achieved
his aims, if they were aims and not the
product of natural processes, by seepage.
As the first of “Liberalism’s” converts
from Labor he was a model hand-
some, obviously well-educated, person-
able in every sense of the word, quietly
religious, a man at home in any well-
bred company, agreeable; in fact, a con-
vert to be proud of and no trouble to
anybody on his own side, though a
doughty swatter of hornets of the
Hughes-Holman type, in a way that did
not seem violent. Not ambitious, not
likely to be an obstacle to the big guns
when a safe seat was going.
And yet, suddenly, he turned up as
the Only Man for Parramatta, the creme
de la creme of the new Federal elec-
torates, into which he seemed to have
insinuated himself without making any
effort. And so firmly did he soon become
ensconced there, with his imposing little
orchard farm on the Windsor Road to
be pointed out with pride to visitors,
that nobody on the Liberal (or Conserva-
tive) side ever tried seriously to throw
him out.
When he went into the Federal House
in the wake of Reid with the prestige of
having held continuous office smoothly
in the longest lived and locally most
successful and productive ministry New
South Wales had ever known, the House
engulfed him. He seemed to sink to the
bottom and only large bubbles of criticism
regularly breaking the surface advertised
that he was there.
Prime Ministers took office and dis-
appeared. Barton went, Deakin went and
came back, Watson passed fleetingly
across the stage, Reid’s long-ebbing
prestige dissolved in a sordid wrangle
with Deakin of the “you-did-I-didn’t
variety” concerning who had deceived
whom in the destruction of the Reid-
McLean Ministry, and Joe remained very
much under water. He had not been
included in the Reid-McLean Ministry.
He had only begun to float off the bottom
a year or two before. When Reid left
office he unobtrusively became Deputy-
Leader of the Opposition.
And then, when Reid faded out as
he did quite literally since he made no
announcement of his retirement from the
leadership of the Opposition there was
the extraordinary spectacle of Joe stand-
ing up in his shoes, materialising, as
Henry Gyles Turner put it, as a man
“possessed of an incisive vigour in debate,
a thorough grasp of every move on the
political chess board, a breezy independ-
ence, and plenty of common sense, which
has sometimes been described as genius
in its working dress.”
Immediately after he assumed the
Opposition leadership the groggy Fisher
ministry of 1908 staggered in and out
of uneasy office in less than six months.
At the end of its life, an extraordinary
spectacle was vouchsafed the political
world: the New South Wales Press hold-
ing up Joseph Cook, the long submerged
free trader critic, as the only possible
saviour of the Commonwealth, a dictum
which the protectionist Victorians took so
seriously that they besmirched him with
every kind of libel and bespattered him
with every kind of abuse.
Then a sudden and awful rumor got
about that he and Deakin, who led a
“If I Were King!”
Mr Cook said it behoved every man who loved his country, and was anxious
for its welfare, to be up and doing, and see that no stone was left unturned to roll
back the tide which seemed to, etc, etc.
The Bulletin, April 17, 1913.


rather desperate cross-bench coterie,
were about to coalesce and this seemed
about as preposterous as anything that
had been mooted out of a madhouse. Joe
Cook, the pure and holy free trader,
embracing Deakin, the essence and
Messiah of Protection! True, David
Syme was dead some months and Deakin
might thus have been released from the
prison house; but it seemed obvious that
in the embrace of Joe Cook he would
suffer the kiss of political death. Already,
indeed, Joe himself had likened him to
“one of those beautiful butterflies with
a ‘Labor’ pin through him.”
In New South Wales, political nego-
tiators were in fact determined that
Deakin should die politically and that
any fusion between him and Cook should
be led by Cook. But Cook preferred to
be reasonable. He was quite willing to
be second fiddle in a fusion and let
nature take its course. And that was
the way it worked out.
Deakin seemed to quail before the
prospect and offered to stand aside but
no substitute as a victim could be found
with sufficient courage to face the obvious
probable denouement. So he went to
the sacrifice with some of his own
followers openly calling him Judas —this
from I.yne—and traitor.
Deakin bears the burden
PTTie parties to the fusion met and Reid
proposed Deakin as leader. Cook
modestly asked that his own nomination
be withdrawn, thus assuring that the
Ministry should be the Deakin-Cook, not
the Cook-Deakin Government. And thus
Deakin bore the burden of the terrible
scenes that followed in the House during
the ousting of the Fisher Government
and the induction of the new Fusion
Cabinet; the scenes that culminated in
the tragic death of the Speaker, Sir
Frederick Holder, in the chamber.
The new Minister for Defence, Joe
Cook, had remained calm but incisive in
his remarks during this period of riotous
confusion. He founded the basic Aus-
tralian Navy and brought Lord Kitchener
to Australia. Then a general election in
April, 1910, produced a disaster which
wrecked Deakin and made his early dis-
appearance from the scene inevitable.
Every electorate in which Deakin had
appeared had been lost. Cook watched
by his partner's political deathbed with
a solicitous patience (from the chair
of the Deputy-Leader) during a period
of nearly three seemingly unrewarding
years, while the second Fisher Govern-
ment pressed on with a fruitful pro-
gramme of legislation and one slight tap
from him might have disposed of his
own leader.
It was not till January, 1913, that
the failing Deakin went out and he
found himself elected Leader of the
Liberal Party.
Six months afterwards Fisher lost
his office and he was in office, at last
as Prime Minister but with a majority
of one only in the House of Representa-
tives and forced to give that away by
finding his own Speaker in Elliott John-
son. His position in the Senate was worse
Labor held 22 out of the 36 seats,
which made the future hopeless for him
when he set out to govern with a
ministry in which freetraders and pro-
tectionists were in forces equally arrayed.
He was saved quite early from being
engulfed in a vast industrial conflagration
spreading from New Zealand by the
intervention of Hughes (“that little
devil,” to Joe) who no doubt felt that he,
as leader of the watersiders, might be
engulfed too at a time when there were
other fish to fry.
Whereupon, Cook rewarded him and
his colleagues by producing from his
sleeve aces which nobody dreamed were
there. He produced, first, a Bill to abolish
preference to unionists, which he knew
Labor must implacably oppose. And then
on the strength of their opposition which
wrote finish to his power to govern, he
produced a sweet reasonableness which
persuaded Sir Ronald Munro Ferguson,
the new Governor General, to grant him
a double dissolution, the first of its kind.
It was unfortunate for him that Parlia-
ment was dissolved just as World War
I appeared as a reality, thus making it
impossible to produce a national Govern-
ment without the general election held
on September 5, 1914.
Labor, the fathers (legislatively) of
Compulsory Military Service, had it all
their own way, though Cook had put
measures for an expeditionary force
vigorously in train and New Guinea had
been captured, before Fisher took over
on September 17. Joe was the activator
and originator of Australia’s war effort.
He retired to Opposition which was
not, for the time being, an opposition
any longer. He later gave the same
support to Hughes as he had to Fisher
in the position which, he said when “the
little devil” became Prime Minister, he
had “well and rightly won.”
His behaviour to Hughes when it
become a matter of making it possible
by a coalition or fusion tc form a
national Government, was exactly the
same as it had been when he had been
in fusion with Deakin: unswerving
loyalty, self-effacement in the compara-
tively minor office of Navy Minister. His
submersion went to such lengths that
when he travelled to Europe with Hughes
to the Imperial War Conference in April,
1918, The Bulletin’s Low (when he
included him in his cartoons at all), de-
picted him as a tiny, detached figure
sitting disconsolate and small in a corner
remote from the central mob of arm-
waving Hugheses displaying their noisy
versatility.
Once I asked him if he thought he
had had his full share of credit for his
part in this conference and in the activi-
ties of the later visit of the pair to the
Peace Conference and history centreing
round the reconstruction of Europe.
He replied: “Well, I did a lot of the
yarding, but Hughes did all the barking.
That is what little dogs are for.” He
came back from Europe in 1918 a
GCMG, with a greater reputation abroad
than at home.
A lovable personality
'l7'ery few people in Australia remem-
’ ber that he was an active architect
of the construction of the new nation of
Czecho-Slovakia. I found his letters of
introduction there a magic open sesame.
Few, either, appreciate how much he
had to do with the arrangement which
placed the New Guinea mandate in Aus-
tralian hands.
He made some impression on Euro-
peans by his succinct comments, as when
he was asked during the Czecho-Slovak-
ian consultation, what the British dele-
gation’s view of the Delbrlick nationality
laws was.
Harold Nicolson, who was acting as
his cicerone from the Foreign Office,
was able to report: “ ‘Damn Delbrlick!’
was what he said and how right! How
true!” He was, of course, a signatory
to the Peace Treaty with Hughes.
After which he returned to Australia
to take over Treasurership from W. A.
Watt, and held it with his usual aplomb
for nineteen months at the end of which
Hughes, after his ministry had nearly
crashed following the newly arrived Earle
Page’s bitter criticism of Cook’s budget,
brought S. M. Bruce back from Europe,
offered Cook, now 61 years old, the High
Commissionership in London. Perhaps,
he was afraid that Joe might begin
embracing Earle Page or vice versa.
At anyrate, he went with his usual
good humor and willingness to serve.
He returned to Australia in 1927 and
settled down in his home at Bellevue
Hill. Sometimes, when you met him
abroad, he seemed contented with his
lot and free of all personal rancor to-
wards those who had done him political
wrong in the past.
He died, aged 87, on July 30, 1947.
Whatever he was ready to say priva-
tely about him, W. M. Hughes’s public
valedictory rated him as a colleague who
“stood out more than any other man
with whom I have been associated as
the most reliable and helpful of men. He
was a great debater, a dour fighter, and
underneath. that a most lovable per-
sonality.”


1
vm
mm
■
*HT
i".
jpfi
~ t
4^rf
O
O
o
es
ps
Every day at the Austin Hospital near Melbourne, containers holding
hundreds of small white paper bags are taken to the wards. These little bags
are carrying out the vital task of protecting from contamination sterilized
surgical dressings, articles of clothing and equipment for use in the opera-
ting theatres and wards. Bleached Bag Kraft paper made by Australian
Paper Manufacturers Limited is chosen for the making of these bags. The
choice speaks highly of A.P.M. quality because in the hospital autoclaves
(sterilization units) these bags must withstand temperatures of up to 255
degrees Fahrenheit and steam pressures of 20 pounds per square inch for
thirty minutes. This is yet another example of how A.P.M. paper and
paperboard is helping to make our lives safer and more pleasant.
AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LIMITED
OWNED BY AUSTRALIANS
Head Office: South Gate, South Melbourne. Sales Office in all State Capitals
A P 621403


OVERSEAS
BEHIND THE SINO-INDIAN
CONFLICT
Tensions of the class struggle in Red China
By WILLIAM ADIE
( Fellow, Institute of Far Eastern Studies, St Antony’s College, Oxford)
At this time, two years ago, dele-
gates of the world’s Communist
parties were gathering in Moscow
to try and resolve the bitter conflict
between Khrushchev, Mao Tse-tung and
their respective supporters, which
threatened to shatter the international
Communist movement. In the conflict-
ing interests of their respective regimes,
Mao was trying to impose on it the
policy of revolutionary war, and
Khrushchev that of “peaceful economic
competition”.
After prolonged wrangling, the Chin-
ese then agreed to sign an ambiguous
communique formulating a common
policy for all Communists, on the under-
standing that a similar meeting should be
held in two years’ time, (that is, now 7 )
to review the position. Both sides then
continued in the error of their ways,
quoting the portions they wrote into the
communique as ideological cover for
their policies.
Mao Tse-tung has said that the Soviet
Union, because of its military strength,
must lead the Communist bloc, for
China is “not yet fit” to do so. But his
spokesmen have also said that when
China gets her own nuclear weapons
there will be a “fundamental change” in
the world situation.
Now China has indicated that she
soon may have nuclear weapons, but
there is no sign of the scheduled meeting
of world Communist parties to debate
the Sino-Soviet ideological battle in the
shadow of this fact. On the contrary,
the Indian Press has revealed that a
meeting of this type should have been
held in conjunction with the Moscow
Disarmament Congress earlier this year,
but was called off at the last minute after
the pro-Chinese “Sectarians” in the
Indian Communist party had made
frantic efforts to get onto its delegation.
Indian Communists were shown con-
fidential letters exchanged between
Moscow and Peking which (according to
the Indian news magazine “Link”)
showed that the responsibility for con-
tinuing the ideological war was entirely
that of the Chinese and the Albanians.
It is evidently after an exchange of
acrimonious correspondence, similar to
that preceding the conference of 1960
which was “leaked” to the world Press,
that the Sino-Soviet dispute has now
flared up again. The Chinese are now
furiously accusing Khrushchev not only
of revisionism, but even of imperialism
and subversion of their Party and State,
more clearly than ever before.
What has triggered off the Chinese
outbursts against Tito and Khrushchev,
and inspired such defiant expressions of
self-reliance as their recent Central Com-
mittee Communique and the 13th An-
niversary speeches by Chou En-lai and
Ch'en Yi, and what lies behind China’s
latest military incursions into India?
Something has seriously disturbed the
Chinese, and one of the things they dis-
like is evidently not so much Khrush-
chev’s renewed wooing of Tito as what
lies beind it—the stress he lays on eco-
nomic factors in the peaceful competi-
tion between East and West. The trend
of his thinking is revealed by his recent
overtures to Japanese business men and
his reference in the “World Marxist
Review” (September, 1962) to the pos-
sibility of co-operation between the
European Common Market and Come-
con, the Soviet-controlled economic bloc.
China can and will as yet play only a
minor role in Comecon because of her
economic backwardness and difficulties.
On the other hand, the Chinese press
and radio have recently indicated a
desire to get closer economically to
Japan and the European Common
Market.
Faced with the disturbing reality of
the Common Market, Khrushchev’s
ideologists have had to edge towards
further “revisions” of Marxist-Leninist
teaching about the weakness of capita-
lism, and countenance practical econo-
mic measures which could lead to
Comecon becoming more similar in
structure to the European Common
Market, and certainly will mean the in-
troduction of more capitalistic business
principles into the economic life of the
USSR.
These measures are a development
of the policy of “peaceful economic
competition” Khrushchev has been
following since the 20th Soviet Com-
munist Party Conference, and which he
wrote into the new programme of the
Soviet Party adopted at the 22nd Con-
gress in October, 1961. The Chinese
have never recognised the decisions of
that Congress as binding on the rest of
the Communist movement, and have
especially resented the economic meas-
ures which followed from them. They
particularly resented Soviet demands for
repayment of their Korean war debts, on
top of the withdrawal of Soviet techni-
cians the year before and curtailment of
Soviet trade and ‘aid’.
In fact, though, Soviet policy was at
least partly dictated by economic neces-
sity, by what Khrushchev quaintly calls
“the Leninist principles of business ac-
counting”. He argues that “the construc-
tion of Communism in our country is
tantamount to the fulfilment of our
international duty to all the revolution-
ary forces of the world” (“Pravda”,
March 6, 1962). He has to talk like
this because he is obliged to try and raise
the Soviet standard of living, while
simultaneously keeping up the arms and
space races, thus stretching his resources
to the utmost; but the hungrier Chinese
may be forgiven for feeling that their
sacrifices for the revolution —especially
in Korea —should be matched by really
“selfless” aid from the USSR, even if it
means slowing up the Soviets' advance
to Communism. The fact is that both


# STEEL PIPE ,of Cour?°
i %
%
\
v Vv
*
' ?
Wherever any great engineering project towers up
into the sky, steel pipe will inevitably be playing an
important part, as it did in this great dam.
For steel, alone, has the invincible strength ... and
the long endurance that endow it with a life span
far greater than almost any other material. Indeed!
it is partly this long life of service that makes steel
pipe so basically economical.
From the Australian tube mills of Stewarts and
Lloyds flows a continuous line of pipes and tubes
from Hot Finished Seamless down to the tiny s"
diameter Continuous Weld; but, whatever the
pipe, each one of them shares two things, the
enduring strength of steel and the high standard of
manufacture that makes a quality product.
If you have any tube or reticulation problems, let
us assist you with information and general advice on
the use of steel pipe. Simply call our nearest branch
I&L
STEWARTS AND LLOYDS
(DISTRIBUTORS) PTY. LIMITED
BRANCHES: All Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong,
Geelong, Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs. AGENCIES: Cairns, Mackay, Kalgoorlie.
SPG. 2.62


regimes want to exploit each other’s re-
sources in order to save themselves from
the consequences of their “planning”
and its inherent incompatibility with the
facts of economic life, particularly with
the requirements of agriculture.
“Pravda” recently unearthed an un-
published document allegedly dictated by
Lenin in March, 1918, on which it com-
mented editorially that “political tasks
assume a subordinate role compared
with economic tasks”. Lenin was quoted
as calling on the USSR to use bourgeois
experts, including Americans, to replace
political agitators with a new type of
leader, the economic organiser.
It is just because they, too, have now
had to adopt the more rational economic
measures long advocated by their critics
among China’s planners and military
leaders, that Mao and his veteran guer-
rilla-politicians have to maintain “face”
by reiterating their old slogan “politics
in command” louder than ever, and at-
tacking both Soviet adherents of “revi-
sionism” and “economism” and their
“rightist” allies in the Chinese Army and
Party for “siding with the imperialists”.
The official organ of the Chinese Com-
munist Party, “Red Flag”, recently pub-
lished an article ostensibly criticising a
group of early Russian revolutionaries
(the “Economists”) who stressed the
need to support the workers’ economic
demands and fight for better living
standards; it was obvious that it was the
present Soviet policy that was really
under attack, and Khrushchev confirmed
this in the article mentioned above, by
denouncing “people who call themselves
Marxists” for saying his policy of peace-
ful economic competition was a repeti-
tion of that of the Economists. It has
now also become quite clear that ap-
parent Chinese attacks on Tito or even
“US imperialism” contain oblique at-
tacks on Khrushchev, as some experts
had long suspected; the Albanian Press
has taken to reproducing the charges
China makes against them, but openly
applying them to “N. Khrushchev and
his group”.
It is significant that the latest, tough
communique of Mao’s Central Com-
mittee mentions a “class struggle” within
the Party and foreign attempts at sub-
version, then refers in the same breath
to the Central Committee meeting of
August, 1959, after which the Defence
Minister, Marshal P’eng Te-huai, was
dismissed for opposing Mao’s Com-
munes and defence policy. This com-
munique also dismised from the Central
Committee secretariat two more military
leaders believed to be supporters of
Marshal P’eng’s ideas, leaving in the
secretariat only one military man, (and
he the security policeman, Lo Jui-
Ching).
Briefly, Mao’s opponents disagreed
with his thesis that China’s exploding
population, harnessed frto the militarised
Communes, was a stronger force than
the atom bomb and modern science in
general. They stressed the importance
of building a professional army with
modern weapons, even if it meant closer
relations with the USSR or other foreign
countries. Now birth control propaganda
has restarted, and Foreign Minister
Ch’en Yi has said China has been work-
ing hard to produce her own bomb, and
will do so soon. This implies that Mao’s
military and population policy was
wrong and is all the more reason to
launch the present campaign smearing
his opponents as Soviet agents.
This campaign may be linked to the
recent closure of Soviet Consulates in
Shanghai, Harbin and elsewhere, after
they had been surrounded and searched
by security police (as in 1929). Party
members who have fled to Kong Kong
indicate that Mao’s purpos. in exposing
(or exaggerating) Soviet “subversive acti-
vities” openly in Party meetings and
obliquely in the Press, has been partly
to blame them for the failure of his
economic policy, though Mao has always
made it clear that control of the armed
forces is his first concern.
In this context, a connection appears
between the trouble on the Indian fron-
tier and the “class struggle” which, as
the Central Committee’s communique
unprecedentedly admits, is going on
within the ranks of the Chinese Com-
munist Party. In 1958 the abortive at-
tempt to take Formosa (in which P’eng
Te-huai played a curious role) showed
that modern weapons are decisive in
spite of Mao’s theories, and that China
was powerless without Soviet support.
It is hard to see what a rational and
properly-informed Chinese Government
couh’ hope to gain by provoking
hostilities with India at the present
stage.
★ ★ ★
Meanwhile a special correspondent
writes from New Delhi:
Tn this context the border disputes
themselves are a sideshow. The areas
are barren and virtually uninhabited.
Although both countries seem increas-
ingly prestige conscious, neither Mr
Nehru nor Mr Chou En-lai ;s likely to
feel personally perturbed if a few square
miles change hands in a snowstorm
and it must be remembered that last
April Indian forces conducted a vigorous
and successful local offensive in Ladakh.
But China has an important secondary
objective in her attack in the NEFA.
Unlike Ladakh, where a mountain
barrier prevents any serious incursion,
that part of the NEFA bordering on
Bhutan offers favourable terrain for a
Chinese advance, however short in dura-
tion, to the Brahamaputra valley and the
disaffected areas of Assam.
Farther east is an unstable Burma;
south lies Bengal, divided between Pakis-
tan and India and traditionally the sub-
continent’s most politically volatile area.
West lie the feudal kingdoms of Sikkim
and Bhutan, garrisoned now by Indian
troops. Farther west lies the cockpit of
Nepal, where India and China wage a
diplomatic war, which for some time has
been going in China’s favour.
The Indian Army has, therefore, no
option but to fight very hard indeed
amongst the mountains, gorges and
streams of the NEFA, and basically
there is little choice but to stand or re-
treat. The Indian Army commander in
the NEFA, Lieutenant General B. M.
Kaul, may be tempted to retreat much
farther south, in the hopes of drawing
Chinese forces so far forward that they
find it difficult to extricate themselves.
The best way to consider the terrain
is to imagine the 14,000 foot Tangla
ridge as the knuckles of a hand, whose
fingers are gorges and streams running
south to the Brahamaputra. Until last
week the knuckles were the battle zone
between both sides’ forward positions,
neither of which were held in strength.
General Kaul’s original operational plan
envisaged a strong defence of the Tangla,
with reinforcements of veteran airborne
and Gurkha units supporting a decisive
local offensive, once airdrops had guaran-
teed ammunition and supplies. All
depended on timing, so that the offensive
could be executed before the Chinese
retaliated and benefited by the terrain
and their shorter lines of communication.
The Chinese, however, attacked first,
maintaining their offensive in what Mr
Menon has described as “divisional
strength.” Given this “five-fingered” ter-
rain, General Kaul cannot hope to estab-
lish a continuous defensive front. He
must defend each local area. Hence,
reports of heavy casualties are probably
accurate.
Nevertheless it would be premature to
regard the battle as lost. Indian troops
are still at a tactical disadvantage, but
with each passing day their position
should improve, unless Mr Chou En-lai
is really prepared to embark on a war of
a Korean scale. The conflict would then
pass on to the international stage, with
consequences nobody could foresee.


FORUM
THE PUBLISHING RAT RACE
W hy so many authors will not publish in Australia
By MAX HARRIS
, said Richie Benaud in front of the television cameras. “If
Australian publishers would pay me as well as the British then I’d
publish my books in Australia all right”.
‘We have to have books that we can sell on the export market if
Australian publishing is to develop both quantitative and qualitative
strength” bleated Sam Ure Smith and George Ferguson in unison.
Four Corners viewers were confronted with a circle almost hopelessly
vicious when Michael Charlton debated the publishing problem.
Australian publishers cannot compete with British royalty payments to
authors until they acquire manuscripts which command an export market.
Authors with export potential won’t choose to publish within Australia
until they receive competitive financial bids from the local boys. The
problem is as simple as that; or very nearly so.
How is any kind of breakthrough to
come about? There is nothing much to
be done (unless publishing subsidies are
devised at a governmental level) apart
from techniques of propaganda, persua-
sion, and publicity. The professional
novelists are no longer at the heart of
the publishing problem. The novel as a
bookshop commodity is undergoing the
last agonising spasms of rigor mortis.
There will still be a few freak bestseller
v/riters like Morris West, but by and
large Australian publishers are only too
happy to pass library fiction novels on
to the traditional UK publishers of this
kind of book. (The most significant
thing about the 1962 Australian publish-
ing scene is the almost complete absence
of fiction, Angus & Robertson included.)
Nevertheless there are signs of many
prodigal Australian novelists now want-
ing to come home to Uncle George,
Uncle Sam, and Uncle Andrew, for not
only are overseas royalties shrinking but,
horror of horrors, the authors are be-
coming increasingly unknown and un-
read in their own country. British pub-
lishers, with a few notable exceptions
make no effort to promote L Australia;
while Australian publishers, quick to
realise the new climate of book-buying,
are backing up their titles with terrific
marketing energy. Here is a test the
reader can conduct on himself. Who
wrote “Solo For Several Players? Who
wrote “The Young Wife”? It is likely
that you won’t have heard of, let alone
read, Barbara Jefferis’ outstanding novel.
Macmillan experimented with getting
behind David Martin’s “Young Wife :
and there s little doubt which author and
which book has the public “image”.
Even though Barbara Jefferis may be the
better author and even better paid, it
would be much more fun to be David
Martin in the Australian literary world
than Barbara Jefferis.
Reverting to export publishing, the
types of book which will butter the
publisher’s bread are essentially what
one might call books by non-profes-
sionals, but which have a supra-national
market interest. It may be necessary for
writers in this category, such as Richie
Benaud, to pursue the last zac (sterling),
but this could scarcely be the case with
Lord Casey, Lady Casey, Robert Gordon
Menzies, Russell Drysdale, Percy Ce-
rutty, Herb Elliott, Dr Douglas Pike, or
Professor A. D. Hope ... the list is
endless. It is only with books that English
publishing houses actually want on their
lists, that Australian publishers can break
down the silent policy of English pub-
lishers to engage only in one-way deals.
Alas, nothing except patriotic quixoti-
cism on the part of writers will bring
this situation to pass.
But meantime, unexpectedly, history
has come down on the side of the hard-
pressed Australian publishers. The Euro-
pean Common Market spell: danger for
British publishers, and a golden oppor-
tunity for their Australian rivals. A
Morris Minor drives just as well, no
matter what language the driver speaks.
But the ECM will open up no markets
whatsoever for the English hook and
the need for the present Commonwealth
markets will be as great as ever before.
But Australia, on the other hand, will
have to tighten up on sterling expendi-
ture, so that our own export losses won’t
create acute balance of payment pro-
blems. At the very worst, it could mean
import quotas of UK books as in the
immediate post-war years. At the very
least it means great moral pressure on
Australians to buy Australian books,
made with Australian paper and print-
ing, wherever the local product matches
the sterling import. The most gigantic
effect is likely to be in the field of
educational books, for it is already be-
coming apparent that there is no reason
in the world why Intermediate Shakes-
peare texts or arithmetic books should
call for an expenditure of sterling.
In addition, the ECM situation, even
at this early stage, is producing harden-
ing psychological attitudes within Aus-
tralia, particularly amongst conservative
people who have lived their lives in the
belief that Britain and the Common-
wealth form eternal verities. This in-
ward-turning process is already reflected
in the changing balance of bookseller’s
stocks between Australian and British
books.
Sensing 1962 as the psychological
moment the Australian Publishers’ As-
sociation has flung a record amount of
money and energy into promotion, cul-
minating in the biggest Book Week in
Australian history on November 7th.
The outcome of this joint effort is likely
to be the setting up of full-time promo-
tional and publicity machinery by the
APA. If Australian publishers invest
bravely in the future, by 1970 they could
well have a commanding influence in the
national market, and sufficient resources
to compete with British and USA books
in the Asian market particularly.
To what extent are British publishers
aware of the impending threat to their
sweetest export cop? Some are acutely
aware of the movements of history:
others are still imbued with the ineffable
complacency of a literary Raj. Firms
with educational markets at stake have
seen the writing on the wall. Firms like
Longmans Green are converting their
wholesale representative set-ups into or-
ganisations for publishing in Australia.
Possibly influenced by the high standards
F. W. Cheshire have established in
educational books, Longmans have
added an Australian “image” to back
up their traditional grip on the market
. . . their ‘Arts in Australia’ pamphlets
and ‘Australian
a commendable beginning. Even Mac-
millan, the imperial bastion of publishing
traditionalism, are backing the Austra


lian titles they publish with refreshing
energy. The ever-astute Sir Allen Lane
is preparing to launch his Australian-
produced Australian Penguins. Fontana
recently spent a lot of money to. publi-
cise the strong Australian influence in
their paperback list.
The next couple of years will see more
and more UK firms publishing within
Australia, and this will be good for
Australia.
But there are publishers with no in-
herent need to publish inside Australia
and who are determined to maintain and
even expand their antipodean sales.
Thames & Hudson, Hutchinson, Con-
stable, Skira, Seeker, and a number of
others are concentrating on cultivating
the over-all market here, getting their
books reviewed, developing interest in
their imprint at the library level, and so
on. Some, like Gollancz continue the
old hard-sell to booksellers. Others
maintain the traditional lofty indifference
as to whether their books are bought
in the colonies or not.
Predictable destinies
Tt has been an exciting year for Austra-
lian book buyers, even if not astron-
omically profitable for publishers. It has
been a vintage year for scholarly and
important Australiana, and exciting be-
cause sales of prestige books have in-
variably exceeded publishing expecta-
tions. A & R were not surprised to sell
the Banks Journals in a few months:
but that H. M. Green’s 2-volume “History
of Australian Literature” should have
lasted a bare three months in print
means that George Ferguson had grossly
underestimated the initial public res-
ponse. The same thing seems to be true
of MUP’s first volume of the Manning
Clark “History of Australia”. It is be-
lieved that advance orders for MUP’s
£5/5/- “History of Australian Art” by
Bernard Smith are similarly encouraging.
Things are booming in the Australian
carriage trade.
Individual publishers have, during the
year, followed fairly predictable des-
tinies. Ure Smith have pursued their
dream of giant sales with Culotta’s
“Gone Fishin’ ”, cornered the overseas
gift market with a splendiferous edition
of “Unique to Australia”, and paid their
usual homage to culture with the Fowles
facsimile “Sydney in 1848”. Lansdowne
have saved all their big guns for the end
of the year, but with Judith Wright’s
“Range the Mountains High” leading
their juvenile programme it looks as if
they will share the honours in that field
along with the F. W. Cheshire adventure
yarn “Quest for Golden Dan”. F. W.
Cheshire would probably win the award
for Publisher of the Year if only for
the fact that their program reflects a
serious, alert, questing intellectual spirit.
After publishing “Australian Civilisa-
tion” and Norman MacKenzie’s “Women
in Australia” (November 1) they deserve
"Oh, no! It'll clash with my whole ensemble!"
to have a huge market success'with'
their new Alan Marshall, “This is the
Grass”.
Angus & Robertson have had a solid,
if not spectacular year, with the stress
on the practical side. Their fiction list
has (wisely) dropped away to nothing.
Jacaranda deserve better success than
they have had. But of all the publishers
MUP have shown the most prodigious
revival, a big and varied program
characterised by the highest production
standards. The Manning Clark, apart, the
general reader is most likely to be de-
lighted with the Birch and Macmillan
“Sydney”, a splendid historical survey.
South Australia’s firm, Rigby Ltd,
have had a quiet year, broken by occa-
sional critical lambastings for their in-
different production standards. Their
year will stand or fall by the reception
accorded to Douglas Lockwood’s prize-
winner "I, the Aboriginal”..
Solid, scholarly and intellectual
Queensland University Press and
Grayflowers are the two 1962 new-
comers. Grayflowers, in particular, is an
exciting advent, so long as Les Gray’s
finances hold out. The £B/8/- art book
devoted to the Campion paintings of Len
French should walk away with the award
for the finest example of book produc-
tion for the year. At a less spectacular
level Georgian House have launched the
first two of their Australian art mono-
graphs. At such a modest price they de-
serve the zealous support of the seasonal
buyer.
The tendency for Australian book-
buying to become more solid, scholarly,
and intellectual, has been developing
over a number of years. The sociological
changes that have brought this about
remain complex and veiled. Increased
secondary education? Fashion/: Televi-
sion as a complete light diet, leading to
the desire for more substantial intellec-
tual fare?
Whatever the causes, the precipitate
has most certainly been the new energies
in the field of librarianship. “Australian
Book Review’s” Children’s Book and
Educational Supplement sold something
over 3,000 copies in 3 weeks. It was not
so much the volume of sales to muni-
cipal libraries, schools, and teaching in-
stitutions, as the extreme rapidity of
turnover which tells the tale. Librarians,
essentially an innocent and enthusiastic
tribe, have sensed their role in contem-
porary cultural history, and it is largely
from the libraries and schools that the
base demand for solid Australiana
comes. It is only logical that sooner or
later the association of publishers must
form a liaison committee with the as-
sociation of librarians.


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
BOOKSELLERS’ PROFITS
Sir,
The old complaint about excessive
profits on books is raised again in your
editorial columns of October 27, where
you quote “The Letters of Oscar Wilde”
as costing 17/- more than it should,
allowing exchange and packing.
Booksellers are unlucky that the price
of a book, in England and here, is well
known. Other retailers (of records, for
instance) give nothing like the service
while making the same or larger profits.
A bookseller will order any book from
anywhere in the world: anyone who has
tried to order a record from a little-
known company knows how frustrating
it can be.
There are several reasons why books
cost more in Australia than in England.
1. Booksellers, and in fact all the staff
of a bookshop, are paid very much more
here. The manager of a London book-
shop may get as little as £lO a week.
This extra overhead must come from
“profits” on books.
2. Because most books must come
twelve thousand miles, there is no
chance to return unsold stock, which
must be sold at substantial losses in the
book sales which are a feature of Aus-
tralian book-selling.
3. When a customer wants a book
which is not in stock, the London book-
seller makes a phone call (costing 4d.)
and can have the book in stock the next
day. In Australia the ordering of a single
book from overseas involves so much
paperwork that the bookseller's profit is
invariably wiped out.
4. If the profits really were as high
as they seem, bookselling should be a
lucrative racket. A good bookshop well
managed will make a modest profit: but
nothing spectacular.
5. All novels and many other books
are sold in Australia for the same price
or less than the sterling price plus ex-
change.
The profits of any business should be
closely watched by the Press. Still, it’s as
well to look carefully at where the
money is actually going.
C. J. MASTERMAN
South Yana {Victoria).
PRICEY
Sir,
How delighted I was to read your
“National Notebook” paragraph on the
retail prices of books in Australia. I
have for long felt that there is something
like a conspiracy of silence on this
subject. The example quoted (an appa-
rent ‘overcharge’ of some 15 per cent)
is by no means unusual I could quote
others far more startling. Indeed, there
seems to be no rational system for cal-
culating the Australian retail price in
relation to the UK published price. One
wonders also whether Australian book-
sellers (wholesale or retail) are justified
in adding much, if anything, to the UK
price as freight charge, since this forms
part of the published price in the UK.
The book is the same price whether it
is sold in London, Land’s End, Glasgow
or John o’ Groats.
A. NEALE
Launceston (Tasmania).
HISTORY WITHOUT FACTS
Sir,
If an historian could be retired, I
would strongly urge the retirement of
M. H. Ellis. It is indeed a shame that a
man whose previous high standard of
historical research and knowledge can
be allowed to recline on such laurels
and print such barren and trivial book
reviews as those of Professor Manning-
Clark’s “A History of Australia” (Bul-
letin, September 22) and Bill Wannan's
“Very Strange Tales” (Bulletin, Oc-
tober 27).
Ellis in his review of Professor Clark’s
history began with a tirade against aca-
demic historians. Unfortunately, his
estimate of the book was based more on
his personal disapproval of academics
than the book’s real worth. He must now
surely realise that in discrediting some
of Professor Clark’s facts, he has failed
to competently discredit the real worth
of the book. “A History of Australia”
is visionary in its aims, and is a welcome
attempt to infuse a little depth into the
barren field of facts which is the heritage
of new historians today. Whatever mea-
sure of success we place on the book, it
is not the utter failure that Ellis would
have us believe.
JOHN J. CASHMERE.
West Marrickville (NSW).
MR HAYLEN AND THE JEWS
Sir,
Your editorial on this matter (Bul-
letin, October 27) discloses an old
journalistic device known as the “Flight
of the Wounded Lapwing” in which you
fluttered into the wings protesting my
horrendous behaviour in Parliament. In
reality you were drawing attention away
from the little nest of fledgelings hiding
in the long grass of parliamentary privi-
lege who raised this matter. They of
course did it, not to protect the Jews,
but to damage Senator Cohen and the
Labor Party. I have been a long-time
bird watcher in Canberra and was not
deceived by the red feathers in the
thicket.
I believe the question of Jewry in
Russia is now in the right place, that is
before the relevant United Nations’
Committee. I am unable to see, how-
ever, why a single member of the Jewish
community who happens to be in Par-
liament should become the innocent
victim of a vendetta, and it was my
proud privilege to protect him as best
I could.
There are a lot of questions literally
shouting to be asked about this cam-
paign. The first one is why this matter
was raised weeks after it had been most
competently aired and dealt with by Mr
W. C. Wentworth, MP. The second is
why did it become big news when resur-
rected by Santamaria and “Newsweekly”
whose sudden anxiety for the Jews is
the quaintest of contemporary political
developments.
The third is that this attack on Senator
Cohen was not spontaneous. It was
hawked around Parliament for weeks.
Everybody knew where the Waiiing Wall
was to be built and all of us knew in
advance of the star performers in both
H ouses. It was awareness of this political
“gimmick”, coming from Liberal electo-
rates with a heavy Jewish vote, which
aroused my contempt in the first place.
LESLIE HAYLEN
Canberra.
DEFENCE AND INVASION
Sir,
It is very kind indeed of Mr Geoffrey
Wilrnot (Bulletin, October 20) to in-
terpret my views on our defence system,
but he would have done better to repro-
duce what I have actually written (Bul-
letin, October 13). His interpretation
that I support “the madness” of “basing
Australian defence policy on a lone hand
in the last ditch against an unknown in-
vader who so far is not even in sight” is
not what I “have in mind” and never has
been. And to suggest that my words con-
jure up “a vision of guerillas in the gum
forests and a lone rifleman on every
headland” is sheer nonsense —just as
much nonsense as the suggestion that my
views are produced by a nostalgia for the
last war but two,” or that I am unaware
of the mainsprings of Australian defence
policy.
Firstly, I have never opposed collective
security. Mr Wilrnot ignores the fact that
I wrote in my article: “Let it be clear that
I am not criticising collective security . . .
It is a vital ingredient, indispensable to
any scheme for the defence of Australia,
both as a deterrent, and as a tactical
measure vital to our defence in any war
in which this country is threatened with
invasion.”
I have advocated that principle and the
principle that Australia’s first line of de-
fence is outside the continent for forty
years consistently—even when it was an
unpopular doctrine. But 1 do hold, as I
said, that when collective security is


“taken as the whole corpus of defence” it
is the product of a Maginot complex, of
a blind eye which fails to see the possi-
bility that the enemy might break
through or get round the collective
screen.”
If any type of military thinking is out-
moded, it is that of Mr Wilmot’s school.
If he reads the military journals of the
world (which I am sure he doesn’t,
judging by his arguments), he will find
that, for example, the American tacti-
cians, even with their huge army on
United States soil and their huge “met-
ropolitan” nuclear defences, are think-
ing exactly as I think about their own
internal defence problems.
The ten-to-one chance is that, if war
came tomorrow, the whole of the Aus-
tralian permanent force would be re-
moved right out of the country if the
existing theories were followed. And
what is going to happen then? Does Mr
Wilrnot suggest that enemy forces arrayed
along the southern fringes of Asia and
within three hours maximum flying of an
Australian coastline four thousand miles
long on the north will be unable to land
parachute troops here in vital spots?
Does he suggest that the Regulars will
then be able to take care of us?
His own confused arguments refute
themselves so thoroughly that they are
scarcely worth taking notice of. First, he
says, if South-East Asia falls to the Com-
munists, “Australia will be more vulner-
able to the very invasion that Ek Dum has
in mind.’ Therefore, says he, let’s make
all our available trained military force
available to be sent out of the country
and leave us bare of power to resist at
home. We can't have a militia; too ex-
pensive and no good. War is made for
Regulars only.
Secondly, he writes: “Even in protect-
ing the mainland (of Australia) the
United States will feel no obligation to
fight our battles unless we are prepared
to help in the common cause, and to help
on an adequate scale.” Therefore, it
seems, we should advertise to the United
States that once the enemy gets inside
our borders we are not going to try to
defend ourselves, so they needn’t worry
about us.
Thirdly, he says it would be “madness
to base our defence policy on a lone
stand in the last ditch against an un-
known enemy so far not in sight.” Apart
from the fact that neither I nor any sane
man would suggest such a policy, it may
be remarked that although my critic pro-
fesses to see “enemy in sight” he goes on
to blame the Australian Government for
not treating the Indonesians as enemies
and having West New Guinea brought
within the collective security arrange-
ments. He chides it for sitting on The
fence and allowing “our nearest neigh-
bor to become a considerable military
power and asks; “How much use even
against Indonesian invaders, if the latter
had learned to use those new Russian
weapons . . . would the militiamen be?
And how much use against the Chinese
with their numbers and presently the
bomb?”
So obviously Mr Wilrnot sees not only
one potential enemy in sight but two, and
one of them already armed with nuclear
warheads less than an hour’s flying time
from strategic areas on our 4000 miles of
northern coastline and right athwart our
communications with mainland Asia,
which they can cut or lengthen any day.
This is all right with Mr Wilmot, even
though the possession of Russian weapons
and his admission that we should have
invoked collective security against the In-
donesians carry the implication that the
Indonesians may be part of the advanc-
ing Communist front —like Castro’s men.
When the advance guards of Communist
“nibblers” arrive, Mr Wilmot will just
take his head out of the sand and exclaim:
“Go away! Don’t you fellows know this
war is being fought by professionals
with the weapons they have at this time.
Ring up Singapore post office and find
out where they are and go off and fight
them. We have nothing here to fight you
with except white flags. Militiamen can’t
resist you!”
I am all in favor of having an efficient
and useful, modernly armed Regular
spearhead, which our Regular Army isn’t
in its present stage of development and
equipment. So is everybody who has any
sense. I am also in favor of the theory
that the objective of defence is protection
of Australia first, foremost and all the
time. So is every sensible man, again.
Where I do take issue with the special
defence policy is that, though every
Government is naturally in favor of
strong local defence, it is more in favor
of political handouts. Defence in Aus-
tralia has been sacrificed to the soft ideals
of the welfare state. And public opinion
has been educated to accept this position.
Ek DUM
COUNTRY PARTY IN TASMANIA
Sir,
Presumably, proof-readers overlooked
a typographical error in the opening
sentence of the article, “The Country
Party Moves In” (The Bulletin,
October 20). The sentence, as printed,
reads, “Tasmania is the only State that
has never had a Country Party”. Tas-
mania has had a Country Party, which
stood 13 endorsed candidates in the 1922
elections for the State House of Assembly
and elected five. Though a virile party
when these five were chosen, by the time
of the 1925 elections the party had dis-
integrated. The puzzling sentence per-
haps was intended: “Tasmania is the only
State that has never had a long-lived
Country Party”.
Of the five successful CP candidates,
four joined the Nationalist Party by 1925
or later. The fifth was subsequently
elected to the Upper House as an
Independent. Two of the five had been
elected as Nationalists in 1919. Of the
eight unsuccessful candidates, four never
again stood for Parliamentary office in
Tasmania, two stood as Independents
(one of them being chosen to the House
of Assembly in 1928 and 1934), and two
joined the Nationalists, each being
elected to the House of Assembly once,
one in 1931 and the other at a by-
election in 1940.
The article notes that the Country
Party could win seats “at the expense of
the Labor Party”, thus helping the
Liberals. The article does not note that
it is also possible that the CP, if it
obtained the necessary vote, could win
seats at the expense of the Liberals, thus
helping Labor.
GEORGE HOWATT
Department of Political Science,
University of Tasmania.
Hobart, Tasmania.
PERSECUTION OF SOVIET JEWS
Sir,
We are shocked by the Soviet Press
Attache’s implied defence of the death
penalty in the USSR. We understand
from Soviet sources that have been
brought to our notice that death is meted
out, not only to criminals and to “enemies
of the state”, but to an amorphous class
of so-called “economic offenders”.
Even if the charges of “economic of-
fences” against Jews, or for that matter,
against other people, were true, it is
absolutely shocking that a state which
calls itself civilised should take life for
what in this country would be the equiva-
lent of income tax offences and theft.
We who have been attacking the Bolte
Government in Victoria for its reaction-
ary and degrading attitude in the Tait
case cannot stand by and watch judicial
murders in any part of the world.
As Mr Brian Fitzpatrick recently
pointed out in a letter to “The Age”, the
death penalty is a moral issue, not a
political one. It is depressing that 45
years after the October Revolution the
Soviet Union should have to adopt a
penal code against which the great
Howard fought in mid-Victorian Eng-
land.
John Paterson (Pres. Students’ Repre-
sentative Council, Melb.)
David Hart (Chairman, University
Students’ Anti-Hanging Committee).
University of Melbourne.
WOMEN AND ABORTION
Sir,
It is essential that Henry Mayer
should receive praise for his forthright
and courageous article on legalising
abortion (Bulletin, October 20). Mr
Mayer's arguments were humane and
extremely well reasoned, without
emotional overtones or hysteria.
Almost every married woman with
children considers abortion at some time
or another (generally, but not always,
with the approval of her husband). Any
medical practitioner can tell the panic-
stricken ones that “noxious things” are
useless and often very, very dangerous,
yet when the monthly panic is on, muck
of all kinds is swallowed by otherwise
sane women. Sentimentality about
abortion is largely a male preserve.
(MRS) MAUREEN CLANCY
Stafford Heights ( Queensland ).


REVIEWS
ART
FOUNTAIN OR CISTERN?
By EARLE HACKETT
HTake a seething bag containing an or-
A ganist, an inventor, a weight lifter,
a lens grinder, probably several others
undisclosed, and a prolific painter; give
it an obsessive hypomanic personality
and a stocky smooth male outline,
slightly fat, and a quiet reliable wife;
make him work on a mine; and you have
Kevin Charles Hart, aged 31, of Broken
Hill, near where he was born, and
educated (by correspondence).
Because of geographical isolation, he
has suddenly emerged with some of the
qualities of a ‘primitive’ painter, and
therefore one cannot at this stage deal
with the paintings without taking in the
background. Moses without the Grand-
ma would not be the lot.
He was “discovered” by Kym Bony-
thon on a visit to Broken Hill earlier in
the year, and his first one-man exhibi-
tion has just finished at the Bonython
Gallery in Adelaide, with good sales.
The success of the show has been in
part due to Hart’s natural and unaffected
capacity for generating news items. He
is “Pro” (short for “Professor” a
reference to his Mr Clever-Know-All
capacity) in Broken Hill, a mythical
place anyway to city-dwelling Australians.
He spent two years making an improved
machine-gun with a swivelling magazine,
but the Department of the Army was
not impressed.
He was not available on the morning
his show opened, being at the Patent
Office registering a modification in the
stiletto heel and an anti-car-stealing
device which was so successful it pre-
vented him starting his own car, and so
on. His show was opened by Barry
Humphries (who said he had decided
not to remark that he didn’t know about
Hart but he knew what he liked), all
of which achieved the kind of Press im-
pact which is usually reserved for the
crazier international painters or those
Australian artists who have just returned
from presumed “success” in London.
Pro Hart’s naive versatility is both
endearing and dangerous. If Leonardo
da Vinci would be rejected in two min-
utes by a management consultant be-
cause of his having too many outside in-
terests, in the same way there might
seem to be a danger that Hart might
never get around to doing anything well
or effectively because of having too
much on at a time. Challenged with this,
Hart denies it, his wife nods, and one
believes them. He does finish everything
he starts. More interesting is the question
of whether this undoubtedly talented
artist is a fountain or a cistern, as was
wondered of James Joyce.
His paintings seem to have many Aus-
tralian idioms of the past decade. There
is a Pugh scrawny hand, a goggle-eyed
Arthur Boyd self-portrait, thin Nolan
outback figures, Drysdale bush. Then
there are Picasso nudes, and a Christ not
far after Sutherland. There are folksy
“Saturday-Evening-Post” pieces such as
“The Backyard Keg” and “Celebration
at the Southern Cross”. "The Mechanic’s
Girl Friend”, a drawing of a nude with
a greasy black palm print on her but-
tock, is a men’s magazine joke, and a
good one.
“Dead Trees” is a beautiful silver-
grey bush study, and “The Ant” is a
quick painting showing the nervy quality
of ant existence on red-brown earth. In
these Hart is yet another good bush
lyricist. Among his religious paintings
is a “Last Supper” in an upper room in
a skyscraper, with masks and funny hats
on all the participants, while “Death of
Christ” is a startling composition with
a ladder and crosspiece, a confusion of
chopped and tortured limbs and bodies,
Broken Hill in the background, and a
conventional crucifixion showing dimly
on a small television set hanging askew
on the central point of the cross. Hart is
evidently dissatisfied with the portrayals
of the life of Christ to be seen in
Broken Hill, but the gay cynical addi-
tions indicate a personal philosophical
attitude which may become more ex-
plicit in his future work.
The whole indicates someone very
gifted and very much in touch with his
surroundings, which happen to be
Broken Hill, which increases the charac-
teristically Australian component, and
out of it comes a kind of painters’
Brendan Behan. Barry Humphries, serio-
usly advising everyone to take the oppor-
tunity of acquiring an early Hart, aptly
said that Pro was a “colloquial” painter,
rather than a primitive. This is exactly
it, for he is painting colloquial themes
and is in full colloquy with everything
about him, including a varied set of con-
temporary painters’ tricks added to what
is characteristically his own. “I want to
paint a man at a poker machine,” he
said. “They get kind of wrapped up in
them, those machines, and in the pain-
ting the man and the machine will be
one together.”
My bet is that he is a fountain, but
if, after all, he does turn out to be a
cistern, it will be a capacious one and
many years noisily draining. Pro Hart
has arrived; no mistake about it.
THE OTHER SIDE OF THE PENNY
Contemporary Art Society. Farmer’s
Blaxland Gallery. Sydney.
Brian Dunlop. Barry Stern Galleries.
Sydney.
THhis 24th annual interstate exhibition,
incorporating the R. H. Taffs £5OO
prize, has raised standards on last year’s
rather low level. When seen in concert,
so many large paintings, striving for a
big statement with, very often, limited
content, tend to cancel one another out,
taking off the edge as it were from the
special impact of any particular one.
There is on the other hand nothing very
exciting any more in the clever splash
or the trails of a big brush. At best
some efforts invite comparison with
their legitimate parents in “Art News”
but it is not flattering. Somehow there
seems to be no substitute for experience
or the capacity to say something im-
portant. Imitators invariably fall victim
to their own emptiness.
The CAS is a sensitive barometer
of all this. Here lies its special useful-
ness, the need to keep growing and not
crystallise in any fashion but admit the
rawness and immaturity as part of the


process. If this exhibition demons Tates
one thing better than anything else it
is a body of tough assertive painting
which is the other side of the penny
froni the superficiality of years ago.
The Taffs Prize was fittingly awarded
to Leonard Hessing for his purringly ef-
ficient “Where the Bluebird Turns Red”
(one of the Rubinstein panel), a
smoothly facile performance full of
calculated line, juicy texture and close
tonalities. Looking at this and others
one is struck by their indebtedness to
Olsen painters are exploring in some
cases the manners he developed in works
of the last few years (via Sugai, Cor-
neille and others). Charvat enriches
the metallic lustre of his texture in
“Ferro” and Coburn works his wheel
forms into more expressive statement.
Lynn, with other experimenters in the
concrete, manages a graver, more con-
vincing work than for a long time.
Figurative painters widen the exhibition’s
scope Olley, Kahan, Pugh and Ken
Hood (with an attractively restained still
life). The Hughes attempts much with
some awareness of Whitely (and
Bacon?), but flops into pizza forms, a
way short of being a big gem of the
anti-charm school. More successful is
the work of Tanner, Rigby, Borlase,
French, Modelski, Ostoja, Plate and
Watkins. Colin Lancely’s “Mug Lair’s
Picnic” is catching, so long as it is first
seen as in painting but the rubble needs
a Dada effect like a gallery background
to subtain it even momentarily. There
are some small sculptures in memory of
Gerald Lewers.
Brian Dunlop's show after what one
had seen (and heard) of his work was
a decided disappointment. His small
sketches and drawings and portrait
“Meg” have certain charms reminiscent
to an extent of James Cook in a low-
keyed, rather dry, way. However, when
Dunlop leaves factual comment for the
imaginative flight of the Venetian paint-
ings the results are far less happy, the
color does not work properly even
when the handling echoes Bunny
except in “The Piazetta”. Some of the
figure composition has not been aman-
cipated from tired student forms, rather
negating the competent realistic draw-
ing he can achieve. Dunlop has evi-
dently the main problems of painting to
tackle before this situation will be re-
solved. His world belongs to that of
the Society of Artists and it will be in-
teresting to see if he will be able to
impose a vision of his own on such well
explored areas of visual expression.
JOHN HENSHAW
MODERN SPANISH
Jose Guervara. Museum of Modern
Art. Melbourne.
Gil Jamieson. South Yarra Gallery.
Melbourne.
nPHE exhibition of 25 works by the
leading Spanish painter, Jose Guer-
vara, is a very important event. It is
the first time that a one-man exhibition
by a modern European painter has come
to this country, and although it is true
that a lot of local work is as good, the
directors of the Museum of Modern Art
merit the highest praise for their per-
sistence and disinterested enthusiasm in
the service of modern art. The problems
of importing exhibitions are forbidding
this one took two years to organise
and the prospect of profits not great.
Guervara is one of the younger suc-
cessors to Tapies, whose work has been
much admired by painters here. Like
his national contemporaries he adheres
rigidly to a non-objective mode in which
there is a strong emphasis on surface
textures and bold, simple shapes. The
majority of the paintings here are pools
of color spread on a black ground. The
surfaces are glazed and pitted as though
fired like ceramics. There is in most of
them the suggestion of chance effects,
but this simply results in an impression
of freedom and spontaneous appropriate-
ness which in no way conceals the sub-
tlety and flexibility of the artist’s skill.
I suspect our viewing of work like this
may still be hampered by inexperience
and by a tendency of overseas theorists
who are better acquainted with the work
to shroud it in language whose limits
are not clear or fit it into streams of in-
fluence whose source is never brought
to light or given any rationale. In its
own terms, which should be the simp-
lest, non-objective painting should suc-
ceed if it is satisfying to look at. The
satisfaction may be analysed as a pure-
ly formal one or may derive from a
coherent set of concepts learnt visually.
Guervara’s world is sombre and dra-
matic. It communicates a strong and
coherent vision both of harshness and
beauty, and in these respects concords
with what we already know of his coun-
try and its art.
Gil Jamieson has a most enjoyable
exhibition at the South Yarra Gallery.
It is all figure painting, intelligent, highly
coloured and very vigorous. At present
he is at his best when he lays on the
paint most thickly, allowing wide play
to his exuberant and biting intellect.
Overall he manages very well to con-
trol his strong bold forms in the welter
of color and movement. There is abun-
dant indication here that he will con-
tinue to progress vigorously, perhaps to-
wards a still bolder statement of more
general themes based on the figure and
on powerful color contrast. His deve-
lopment should be a pleasure to watch.
BILL HANNAN
RADIO
HIGHLY
RECOMMENDED
Tf you can do without television's
Limbs, Sing, Sing, Sing, Sunnyside
Up etc. on Friday nights at 8, the first
Boyer Lectures are on ABC radio at
that time ail through this month and I
recommend them as excellent radio.
The annual Reith Lectures from the
BBC have long been one of the main
events of sound broadcasting in English.
The Boyer Lectures, also named after
a former chairman, will soon become
one of the highlights of sound broad-
casting in Australia, if the quality of
the first one last Friday night is main-
tained.
The lecturer for 1962, W. K. Duncan,
professor of history and political
science at Adelaide University, was a
wise choice. He is talking rather than
lecturing about democracy, in simple,
comprehensible but also comprehensive
terms.
In his first lecture, Professor Dun-
can talked amiably about democracy's
collapse in various countries, and asked
whether it could be becoming too dif-
ficult for the ordinary man to under-
stand government. He examined such
possibilities as government by an elite,
with equality restricted to equality of
opportunity, which he described as
“Liberty to become unequal.”
At a fast ramble, Professor Duncan
examined government by experts and
pointed out its fallibilities, including the
thought that “the scientific expert is
naive and arrogant,” and that “all ex-
perts need to be kept in their place.”
But what is their place, he wondered,
and who is to keep them in it? If I
understood him, he pointed out that a
continually bigger and better Public
Service might be the price of absorbing
and controlling the experts, under
Parliament and its committees, select
committees and commissions.
Professor Duncan has the rare ability
to talk for half an hour, say much that
is thought provoking, and make it seem
like five minutes. But I found that in
a weekend of this and that, on radio
and television, a little of the first Boyer
Lecture remained with me on the Mon-
day. I am glad that the ABC is making
the lectures available in published form
after the last one, on November 30.
DALE MILLER


THEATRE
COLD BEGINNING
“Swan Lake”. The Australian Ballet.
Her Majesty’s Theatre. Sydney.
T'here could be no doubting the warmth
A and expectancy that greeted Aus-
tralia’s new permanent ballet company
at its opening performance last week.
Sydney has a special love for ballet, a
love so engulfing that critical faculties
sharply exercised on drama are laid
aside for the theatre of the dance. So
long as it is ballet, Sydney audiences
will be there, and clapping.
What this remarkable love of Aus-
tralians for ballet springs from could
provide a fine exercise in culture
analysis this critic’s guess is that it
all goes along with the outdoor life, the
sport participation of Australians, the
surfing, the climate that makes one
aware of muscles and movement all
of this combining to give a fertile ground
of empathy for the ballet.
It was on solid ground, then, that this
new company opened, and it is dis-
appointing to have to record that the
success of the performance fell far
short of hopes.
Leaving aside all memories of the de
Basil companies, and their unparalleled
collection of stars, the new company
suffers even in comparison to our native
companies formed by Kirsova and later
Borovansky. One expects warmth and
fluency from Australian dancers, and
one has travelled far from the days when
technical faults and tensions were ex-
pected, and overlooked.
Why this warmth failed to appear
may have a little to do with the com-
pany’s artistic director, Miss Peggy van
Praagh, noted for her driving power in
English ballet.
I have not been able to see many
British ballet companies but from those
seen there seems to be a coldness in
the British way that is alien to the Aus-
tralian. Anyone remembering the earlier
Monte Carlo companies, and the fire
they lit in Australian capitals, will, I
think, agree that local audiences re-
spond to warmth with great fervor.
Somehow, the Australian Ballet must
find this fire. At present, their tempos
seem slow, there is a deal of obvious
“grandstanding” for the claque’s ap-
plause, and there is little evidence of
teal teamwork. With the greatest re-
spect for this company’s leaders, and
Paying full homage to the very hard and
dedicated work that has been done, I
would suggest that more attention be
Paid to the meaning of the word “Aus-
tralian” when applied to ballet. There
js already a style which is our own, even
in our short ballet life, and it is this
emerging seed of Australian style which
must fjrst be discovered by this com-
pany’s directors, and then nurtured.
One feature of “Swan Lake” must be
sternly noted the appalling quality of
the decor. No designer was credited in
the programme, and it would appear to
have been a rag-bag scene-painter’s job.
In Sydney of all places, where fir St-rate
designers are on hand, this poverty-
stricken artistically as well as fin-
ancially approach is a disgrace.
A significant part of the appeal of
ballet is the beauty and fitness of its
design work, and for a company to be
asked to dance in front of tatty-looking
cutcloths and a pantomime backdrop
shows a sad shortcoming somewhere on
the top levels.
Having voiced all these philosophical
doubts about the company, let me say
that this “Swan Lake” could well be
a successful opening choice, for some
of the individual dancing is of a high
level, if not brilliant, and the general
ensemble of the corps de ballet is first-
rate. In fact, one can often detect better
dancing going on in the chorus than
among the minor principals, and this
is a welcome change.
Principal dancers Sonia Arova and
Erik Bruhn, though expert and know-
ledgeable, somehow summed up the feel-
ing of coldness that haunted the pro-
duction for me.
Nevertheless, the level of achievement
is there, and if the touch of grace and
fire can be added, this brave new com-
pany could go to real heights. The big
need is to gather immediately some first-
rate design talent into the group and
this, as I have already said, should not
be hard.
KEVON KEMP
TELEVISION
AN ADULT EASTERN
“ Tonah” has tension. Will Hilary Bam-
** berger’s vocal chords stand up to
the punishment they get from her style
of acting? “Jonah” has suspense. Will
Neil Fitzpatrick congeal altogether and
be converted into an even more wooden
figurehead for one of Jonah Locke’s
ships? “Jonah” has Brian James. Will he
suddenly realise he is no longer playing
Captain Bligh for the ABC?
“Jonah” is the latest of the Olde
Sydneye sagas. Its producers invited
some of Sydney’s TV critics to a pre-
view, fed them 98 proof hashish in the
sherry, and thumscrewed cries of “bril-
liant, gripping, a breakthrough,” from
them. Nothing else could explain it, ex-
cept perhaps the fact that “Jonah” is an
adult Eastern with a few amiable quali-
ties—and that alone may be a break-
through.
One of “Jonah’s” virtues is a simple
story line, concocted by Michael Plant
and various associates. Mr Plant has
learned that it is not sensible to attempt
the world in 25 minutes. He gets the plot
going, moves it along in a succession of
closely related scenes, and achieves a
clarity appreciated by aged adults,
though it might prove a shade boring
for a five-year-old child. They like com-
plications.
Plant is a craftsman and viewers
would welcome more of those in local
productions and fewer Big Message
writers who don’t bother to learn how to
tell their stories on television. In “Jonah”,
unfortunately, the writer has been stuck
with three central players who have
some odd notions of their craft.
Brian James delineates the character
of Jonah Locke by simply continuing
his Bligh portrait, mannerisms and all.
I heard a quavery scream the other night
as he smirked and patted his solar plexus
for the umpteenth time, and there was
no one there but me.
Miss Bamberger also began to wear
after the first 10 minutes of Episode
One. Rushing about, gabbling her lines
as though afraid she’ll forget them,
Jonah’s ward is distressing to watch. By
the end of Episode Three, called “Ring
Around Rosa”, I felt that Miss Ann
Parry, as played by Miss Hilary, was an
anachronism. In her time such a young
lady would have been regarded as a
common scold, married off to the first
available man who was about to settle
on Cape York peninsula. When she and
Neil Fitzpatrick’s wooden Brett Hamil-
ton eventually fell into a clinch, I could
only mutter, “Yez deserve one another.”
It’s doubtful that this was the writer’s
or producer’s intention for those
characters.
A glaring production fault in the
“Jonah” series occurs in its more violent
moments. Popgun pistol shots, and
struggles and fist fights straight out of
old mellowdrammer, are not acceptable
in a modern production.
The series has improved over three
episodes and could become a very good
one. I hope it does because, not taking
itself or history too seriously, it could
settle down in to a worthwhile entertain-
ment.
FRANK ROBERTS


ORDER NOW—
These excellent gifts for over-
seas friends. Suitable for all
ages.
■jgßCljflE . ";r-
-f'.K ,
Along the Track
with
CROSBIh
MORRISON
rwif w&mm v
m
mm-
mm
I mm mmk
mm
mm
11111
mm
v A
ftiji
w/Wvfcl
Ulilli
*<•
• ALONG THE TRACK WITH CROSBIE MORRISON—
a selection of talks of the late Crosbie Morrison,
Australia's most popular naturalist, gives small,
informal talks and sketches of bush creatures
written with a simple, rather humorous charm
that brings both bush and sea creatures alive in
the pages. Price 30/- (postage 1/5).
• AN AUSTRALIAN BIRD BOOK by Leach revised
by P. CROSBIE MORRISON —a handy yet complete
and accurate guide to the identification of Aus-
tralian birds. It has been produced for field use
and is the combined work of two outstanding
Australian naturalists. Price 32/6 (postage 1/2).
• ANIMALS OF AUSTRALIA IN COLOUR by Lyla
Stevens —the details given in this" book are scien-
tifically accurate, the illustrations authentic repre-
sentations, and the book, while not intending to
cover the vast field of Australian animal life, is
an excellent introduction to our distinctive furred
creatures Price 15/- (postage 1/2).
• BIRDS OF AUSTRALIA IN COLOUR by Lvla
Stevens—here you will find beautiful, accurately
drawn reproductions of Australian birds, as well
as a careful account of their salient features—told
in language that appeals to children and adults
alike Price 15/- (postage 1/2).
WHITCOMBE & TOMBS PTY. LTD.
20 BOND STREET, 12 BARRACK STREET,
MELBOURNE, C.l. SYDNEY,
also at
BATHURST, N.S.W
8 EXCHANGE ARCADE, 596-598 HAY STREET,
GEELONG, Vic. PERTH.
THE RED PAGE
CHARLES HARPUR, AUSTRALIAN
The strongest literary character that Australian biography has presented
By CECIL MANN
TjVERYONE knows the name: everyone
can now know the man who made
it. That, in a word, is the satisfying
achievement of this biography.
The author’s expressed feeling about
it - that it “inadequately presents the
life” of the first truly Australian poet
is understandable without being true.
By his own confession, his cutting
has spread to massacre. His book*, “once
long”, has been “lopped, pruned, trun-
cated, and reshaped over and over
again”. And what lies very dear to his
heart in his subject’s early-Australia
setting would seem to have been
the chief victim. “Here there is little but
the man.”
Even if that modest description were
true, the author would have fulfilled the
chief requirement of a biographer. Ac-
tually, there is a good deal more than
“the man”. Comparatively brief, as bio-
graphies usually run, the book leaves the
impression of bringing to life, or at any
rate into view, dozens of other charac-
ters as well. Also, there is a sufficiently
complete depicting of the settings.
As probably another result of the
pruning, the narrative moves freely from
scene to scene. Charles Harpur’s birth-
place; the Green Hills that soon settled
down in local geography as Windsor; the
brashly optimistic and anything but
gentle-voiced Inky Ways of infant Syd-
ney; the journalistic and literary scene
when it could boast of more news-
papers than its contemporary Edinburgh
(an agreeable change from the flogging
convict depictions); north to the Hunter
Valley and the even more typically named
Jerry’s Plains, where Charles was post-
office keeper and general factotum agent
by proxy- for his more pushful brother
Joseph, on 10s a week; comings and go-
ings about nearby Singleton, including
the poet's successful and characteristi-
cally vehement advocacy in an astonish-
ingly sweeping temperance movement.
Even, up there, there was a turn of
school-teaching, by one who had had
little schooling; almost as remarkable as
his subsequent “translations” of classic
authors. There, too, the eventual win-
ning of a wife, after years of poetic and
impressive courting; one with whom,
breaking some other poetic rules, he was
to live happily and thankfully ever after.
With her, there was the running of a bit
of a sheep-farm, Harpur knowing as
much about sheep as Henry Lawson
knew about fruit-growing (when, “to
save him from himself”, his friends and
admirers in Sydney lured him away to
the then publess Murrumbidgee Irriga-
tion Area in 1916), but (unlike Henry
Lawson) possessed of patience or dog-
gedness enough to last it out for seven
years, detesting every day of it. And
then, finally, after having been dogged
throughout his life by poverty with all
its teeth bared, he headed somh to Ara-
luen to become a gold commissioner,
with at last, and for most of the rest
of his days, the magisterial status and
affluence which that sort of post carried.
Then tragedy, in the death of his
eldest son in a shooting accident; a
smashing of his world from which
Charles Harpur, for all his considerable
strength of character, could not recover;
finally a lonely figure, soon going down
in sorrow to the grave.
Despite the pruning, perhaps because
of it, this is uncommonly sound bio-
graphy. Perhaps the pruning may be re-
sponsible for the first one or two chap-
ters seeming comparatively heavy. Or
perhaps in these the author labored under
the burden of being a teacher of history,
or a teacher of English. They are the
only ones that seem at all awkward.
For, apart from the chief character
his work presents, the varied scenes and
the number of other associated personali-
ties in the cast, not the least interesting
feature of his book is the author’s own
dedicated part in it, overcoming the dif-
ficulties that confront all such pioneer
biographical writers in Australia. Not
only himself, but also members of his
family and relations for the past 20 years
or more, turned over “thousands of news-
paper pages and dusty letters and memo-
randa of government archives” and
transcribed “hundreds of poems from
the columns of often scarcely decipher-
able newspapers, difficult to handle”.
Anything that comes the way of bio-
graphers from the Commonwealth Lite-
rary Fund is well-deserved.
Reference to the Fund here is par-
ticularly pertinent, since the author him-
self rather cryptically recalls his own
grant from it and the hot air that this
let loose at the time in the Canberra
Parliament. Running through almost
book-length pages of Hansard, the debate
broke out in March 1947 and went on
erupting from time to time through April
and May. The general line of attack,
by the late Dr Earl Page, implied that
the Fund administrators were a bunch
of Parlor Pinks, or of a deeper coloring,
and that the only reason why they had
lavished a whole £4OO on this author
was that he was darkly dyed in similar
tinting. The alleged villain easily and
* Charles Harpur. An Australian. J.
Normington-Rawling. Angus and
Robertson. 455.


AUSTRALIAN BOOK WEEK
NOVEMBER 10-17
GIVE
AUSTRALIAN
BOOKS
See displays of important
new Australian Books in your
booksellers and newsagents
conclusively disposed of the charges
against himself; and certainly it would
take a fanatical microscope to find the
slightest support for the charges in this
model of detached, objective writing. In
fact, the outbursts from both sides would
not be worth recalling at all if the author
did not now, in his preface, rather cur-
iously refer to it, in general terms, siding
with his late attacker, and disowning his
defenders: “In spite of the fact that I
was the one injured, I was in essential
agreement with his [Page's] attitude and
was defended by some I would not have
chosen.”
All that, however, is better left dead
and done with. The most impressive ef-
fect the book conveys is a new admira-
tion for one who has been little more
than a label, a remote period figure:
“The father of Australian poetry”.
Now we have the man, and above all
the fighter. His biographer grants him
also the title, “Rebel Poet Laureate”;
tribute to the quality of fight in his make-
up, displayed in his battling in fine
prose as well as in cutting verse satire,
and, more surprisingly, as a vigorous
platform speaker against anything he
opposed and'in favor of everything he
favored. Against such things as the re-
newing of transportation of convicts; the
squattocracy holding the land against all
other possible settlers; politicians like
Wentworth and Parkes when they
changed sides, defecting from their early
nationalism to become upholders of the
“system”. In favor of such objectives as a
decent deal for the savagely ill-treated
aborigines; a truly national Australian
spirit and outlook, with literature, of
course, dominant; and much else besides,
including, as a cause not commonly asso-
ciated with poets, a year or two in the
temperance movement, which, appar-
ently, almost succeeded in degrading the
entire population of the Hunter Valley
into a miserable lot of tea drunkards.
In all these causes, for or against, the
quality of fight in this Charles Harpur,
as we now have him, makes him per-
sonally the strongest literary character
that Australian biography has so far pre-
sented.
THE VANISHING ROLAND ROBINSON
Deep Well. Roland Robinson. Edwards
and Shaw. 17s. 6d.
Ooland Robinson is an addition to the
mystery of the Australian bush. One
minute you are walking beside him
through this collection of all his poems;
next minute he is nowhere to be seen.
Bush, mountains and Central Australian
desert, looking very much like something
by Roland Robinson, extend all around
Ufr, but we do not see Mr Robinson again
until the next poem or maybe the next
but one, shouting “Come sta!” to Italian
prisoners of war on a train in the “blood-
red sand-ridges” or working as a fettler
laying red-gum sleepers in sight of the
Ooraminna Range.
He has the knack of vanishing, like the
legendary Chinese artist, into his painting;
I suspect that, having introduced the next
item, he goes to sleep in the background
while the scenery paints itself. But he
can be more energetic:
I climbed towards the glazed blue-
green
deeps of night that lay between
the mountain and the spur;
And in this famous poem he has the
adventure in which the “living rock”
bounded away from him in the form of
a rock-wallaby. He likes these sudden
confrontations:
The rock-lily's pale spray,
like sunlight, halts my way.
I don’t know why this opening should
always seem to me more magical than
the poem it introduces; perhaps one is
hearing behind it:
My Spectre around me night and day
Like a wild beast guards my way.
Anyway, Roland Robinson's way un-
winds like a film through the bush, and
to facilitate this impression he has re-
moved all titles to the index and headed
his poems with numbers, like milestones.
It is an exploration which makes no
“metaphysical” comment on the soul of
the explorer, and constructs no “mytho-
poeia” of the developing national con-
sciousness: Roland Robinson is only, I
am afraid, a fine artist.
His is a phase of poetry little con-
sidered these days; it may be studied in
poem 30 of “Tumult of the Swans”,
where he is to be seen arranging and
contorting images to produce his picture:
Sudden, the lowry’s scream:
a blue and crimson flash,
sears across this dream,
chills all my timid flesh.
The rocks are split apart
with flame, where burns the spear-
tall lily at the heart
of darkness: the Gymea.
It may be objected that he has added
to the growing stock of Australian mytho-
poeia with the set of aboriginal legends
from his collection which he has turned
into verse. But this would be to mistake
his attitude entirely; he transcribes the
legends; hfe makes no comment on their
significance. His method is an extension
of his treatment of the bush; instead of
vanishing into the scenery, he vanishes
into the personalities of the aborigines
who have told him the stories. By telling
a story in the person of someone else
you establish a peculiar aesthetic truth
the truth of the story for the person
who tells it. But it can be a dangerous
(Continued on page 36)


SOME RECENT PUBLICATIONS
A HISTORY OF AUSTRALIA (C. M. H. Clark)
Vol. I -fiom the earliest times to the age of Macquarie. Second
impression now available. 57/6
IMMIGRATION: CONTROL OR COLOUR BAR?
The background to the White Australia Policy, and a forceful
argument for change. 12/6
HIGH LATITUDE (Captain J. K. Davis)
Adventures in the Antarctic with Shackleton and Mawson.
Illustrated. 45/-
THE SYDNEY scene (Birch & Macmillan)
The Sydney story from the founding to today. Beautifully
illustrated. /£
THE SIMPLE FLEECE (ed. Alan Barnard)
A veritable encyclopaedia of the Australian Wool Industry. 63/-
A HISTORY OF BRIGHTON (Weston Bate)
The colourful story of this historic Victorian
seaside suburb. 45/. cloth
27/6 paper
From all booksellers
MELBOURNE UNIVERSITY PRESS
PARKVILLE • VICTORIA
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN BOOKSHOP
28 Martin Place, Sydney, N.S.W., Ground Floor
Phone: BW 9807
Leo Deuel (Ed.): The Treasures of Time _ Archaeologists in the Near East . . 43/6
Rosemary Dobson: Australia Land of Colour
Jules Romains: Verdun
Jon Manchip White: Marshal of France The Life and Times of Maurice de Saxe 43/6
occupation. Because I did the same sort
of thing with a motor-car salesman, a
lodger with a commercial traveller and
a hot-dog seller, I have still to convince
some of my kindliest critics that I have
never sold second-hand motor cars, re-
jected the advances of a commercial
traveller’s wife, or picked up and seduced
young girls on Sydney back streets.
Roland Robinson can be more easily
differentiated from his subjects; more-
over he lists their names in his index,
and in one poem allows the narrator to
announce himself:
I worked with Phinney McPherson the
surveyor
right along this range, and when we
come
to Jalgumbun, he says to me, ‘Wow
Eustan,
let me see them steps you say are cut
out in this mountain.”
For the most part these versions in
verse are an improvement on the many
legends Robinson has printed in prose.
They retain the immediacy of being by
living aborigines talking as they talk
today and not as writers of fluffy fairy-
tales imagine they might talk. They still
mix the aborigines’ work for squatters
and surveyors with their tribal rites, and
their journeys over tribal territories with
the present-day names of districts and
railway stations in a way I have always
admired. And they emphasise the simple
purity of the story by Fred Biggs in
“Deep Well”, poem 27, of the child who
had no father, and turn the last words
of the comedian Percy Mumbulla about
the aboriginal honey-getters into pathos:
Well old uncle Minah, old Billy
Bulloo,
Jacky Mumbulla, King Merriman 100,
them fierce old fellers, they’re all gone
now.
An’ the wild honey’s still in the gum-
tree bough,
In general the verse cadence strength-
ens and solidifies these remarkable nar-
ratives, and when it does not it is because
of a lapse of ear: such monologues are
sensitive to the slightest false note. This
is especially true of poem 19 of this
series, the story by Charlotte Williams
of the Gindavul tribe of Woodenbong,
New South Wales. Robinson has treated
this differently from the other legends,
taking it from the woman who told it to
him and giving it to the hero of the
legend itself; here he has made a ballad
which merits comparison with the world’s
finest folk poetry. It is a ballad of a man
who follows the soul of his dead brother,
in the form of two emus, to the island
of the Dead:
Inside that hollow mountain
I stay for three days’ space.
I hear our Father singing.
1 do not see his face.
‘‘Why were you walking, Wao,
Through sand and forests’ loam?
I called those spirit-emus.
Your Father called them home.”
The rock is cleft asunder,
I wake. The beach appears
deserted, and the thunder
of breakers fills my ears.
Walking towards the sunrise,
1, Wao, now must start,
Wao, who holds the song of
our Father in his heart.
Song, for which through deserts
my feet have worn and bled,
1 bear now from the Island
of the Spirits of the Dead.
As English balladry it is so good that
its imperfections looks like corruptions
of an ancient original:
Tired, my limbs seem tethered.
The morning-star has gone.
The emus, ruffling their feathers,
rise and journey on —
Mr Robinson should smoothe the
ruffled rhythm of the third line and
work on a few awkward things like
“three days’ space”. Here, “space” is
unnecessary, since “days” would rhyme
with “face”; but the line would still have
to be reconstructed it is tantalising
to see so pure a diamond so roughly cut.
RONALD McCUAIG


New
Q
Penguins
MONICA DICKENS
My Turn to Make the Tea (5s 6d)
JAMES HERLIHY
All Fall Down (5s 6d)
ELIZABETH JANE HOWARD
The Sea Change (7s 6d)
STANLEY PRICE
Just for the Record (4s 6d)
P. G. WODEHOUSE
The Clicking of Cuthbert and Other
Stories (4s 6d)
JOHN WYNDHAM and LUCAS
PARKES
The Outward Urge (ss)
GIOVANNI GUARESCHI
The Little World of Don Camillo
(5s 6d)
DAPHNE DU MAURER
Mary Anne (6s)
ANTHONY POWELL
The Acceptance World (5s 6d)
WILLIAM SANSOM
Among the Dahlias (5s 6d)
J. H. WILLIAMS
Bandoola (6s)
WORLD EVENTS 1961
Edited by Sir Ivison Macadam (255)
THE PENGUIN HUNDRED BEST
CROSSWORDS
Compiled by Alan Cash (6s)
JEAN-PAUL SARTRE
Altona, The Flies, Men Without
Shadows (7s)
FRIDAY S TUNNEL
John Verney (7s)
SWALLOWS AND AMAZONS
Arthur Ransome (7s 6d)
KNOW YOUR OWN I.Q.
H. J. Eysenck (5s 6d)
ANATOMY OF PRISON
Hugh J. Klare (6s)
MALE AND FEMALE
Margaret Mead (8s 6d)
NEW ARCHITECTURE OF
EUROPE
G. E. Kidder Smith (17s 6d)
Edited by JAMES H. HODGE
Famous Trials (6s)
ROBERT VAN GULIK
The Chinese Gold Murders (5s 6d)
DOROTHY L. SAYERS
Have His Carcase (7s 6d)
DOROTHY L. SAYERS
Busman’s Honeymoon (7s 6d)
PENGUINS FOR
GOOD READING
ADVERTISEMENT
PENGUIN NEWSLETTER
November 10th to 17th is Australian
Book Week and during this week you
will see many displays of Australian
books in the bookshops. At present there
are few Australian books in Penguins.
The only titles currently available are
Voss and Tree of Man by Patrick White
and The Battling Prophet and Man of
Two Tribes by Arthur Upfield, plus of
course Penguin Book of Modern Aus-
tralian Verse. You may have read that
there will be Australian Penguins avail-
able early next year, which will broaden
the scope of the Penguin list and bring
our Australian authors to a wider read-
ing public.
Although the emphasis at present is
on Australian literature, we hope you
will not miss the current batch of Pen-
guins. The outstanding title is KNOW
YOUR OWN 1.Q., by H. J. Eysenck.
This is at present the only book which
permits the reader to determine his own
I.Q. The first part describes clearly what
an I.Q. is, how it can be applied, and
what the shortcomings of this system
of rating may be. The second part con-
tains eight sets of 40 I.Q. problems to-
gether with tables for converting results
into an I.Q. rating, also explanations of
the problems, together with the right
answers. In England this book has al-
ready run into three editions and is a
classic case of a work of a serious nature
becoming a ‘runaway’ best seller. The
other Pelicans are Male and Female by
Margaret Mead, which is the author’s
fascinating attempt to answer the question
How are men and women to think about
their maleness and their femaleness in
this twentieth century?’ and provides
what Rebecca West called ‘a challenge
to the conservatism of today.’ The Sec-
retary of the Howard League for Penal
reform, Hugh J. Klare, has made a pene-
trating examination of prison life in
Britain in Anatomy of Prison. By G. E.
Kidder Smith we have New Architec-
ture of Europe, the ideal illustrated
guide book and appraisal of the post-
war buildings of Western Europe.
The first of four books by Giovanni
Guareschi, The Little World of Don
Camillo, is published this month. The
other titles will be published by the end
of the year. Since their appearance over
ten years ago, the goings-on in the little
world of Don Camillo have made the
whole world laugh. In this book we are
• f tatroduced to the honest village priest, his
deadly opponent the Communist mayor,
and how the Good Lord strives to keep
the peace.
In The Outward Urge, by John Wynd-
ham and Lucas Parkes, the creator of
Triffids and the Kraken, with techni-
cal collaboration, excitingly plots the
Conquest of Space in a story which is
quite credible and most readable.
A book which the Sunday Times
called ‘brash, jolly and vulgar’, Just for
the Record, is in Penguins this month.
Breedin, our ‘hero’, is one of the New
Men who write the ‘working-class’ novels,
compose the music, write the lyrics,
dramatize the squalor . . . and then buy
shares in the show. With one blissful
bang this sends up room-at-the-top-style
novelists, kitchen-sink playwrights and
a host of related types. All Fall Down,
by James Herlihy, is a study in the dis-
illusionment of an adolescent boy. Clint
Williams joins a portrait gallery which
already boasts such rarities as Holden
Caulfield (in The Catcher in the Rye)
and Frankie Addams (in The Member
of the Wedding). This is the first novel
by a young American author who it
has been predicted by Tennessee Wil-
liams will become ‘the most import-
ant new writer since McCullers’.
On the lighter side there is Monica
Dickens’ high-spirited account of local
journalism, My Turn to Make the Tea,
which does for a newspaper office what
One Pair of. Hands did for the kitchen.
For Wodehouse fans, ten riotous short
stories about golf which, ‘like measles,
should be caught young.’ Two more of
Dorothy Sayers’ crime novels are avail-
able this month, Have His Carcase,
which is rated as the best of her stories,
and Busman’s Honeymoon, a love story
with detective interruptions. In The
Chinese Gold Murders, by Robert van
Gulik, Penguins introduce Judge Dee,
an historic Chinese character who is
quite the most entertaining and pictures-
que figure to have enlivened detective
literature for decades.
Jean-Paul Satre has been regarded as
the founder of existentialism and we are
now introduced to his plays. The Flies
presents the great French existentialist’s
interpretation of the Greek legend of
Orestos. Men Without Shadows is a
brutal study of the effects of torture on
captured members of the Maquis. Altona
comments on the acquisitive aspects of
capitalism as seen in a family of rich
German industrialists.
Puffins now include Arthur Ran-
some’s famous lakeside adventure story,
Swallows and Amazons, which after 30
years is firmly entrenched as one of the
children’s classics. The other Puffin is
a gay and exciting story of a brother and
sister involved in the high-powered
world of newspapers and power poli-
tics, Friday’s Tunnel, by John Verney.
Details of all the latest Penguins are
shown on this page and you will be
able to see them at your usual book-
seller or newsagent.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jacks om
O'SUIUVAM ./
LV^wr
vr*
TRADE
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL”, BRISBANE
A "born" writer
Not With a Kiss. Kosti Simons.
17s. 6d.
TV/Ir Kosti Simons published his novel,
1 “Not with a Kiss,” in Sydney at his
own expense, without giving local pub-
lishers the chance of rejecting it, and
sold it, not very successfully, in a city
arcade. This should be irrelevant in con-
sidering the novel itself, but it is not.
Most of the book’s faults the constant
blurring of the plot’s outline, the point-
less imprecision of language—could have
been corrected. We do not know if Aus-
tralian publishers are prepared to give
new authors this loving care (as Mr
Lovat Dickson, here from Macmillan’s,
says British publishers are).
In any case, Mr Simons has turned his
back on publishers. He is a “born”
writer with the “born” writer’s attributes,
self-confidence and attack, but it is hard
to believe that with these alone he will
carry the day.
THE COMING LEADER
"From the deserts the prophets come"
1, the Aboriginal. Douglas Lockwood.
Rigby Ltd. 28s. 6d.
Thus is the book that won its author the
£1250 Adelaide Festival of Arts
literary prize early this year. In import-
ance it transcends any of his previous
work (“Crocodiles and Other People”,
“Fair Dinkum”, “Life on the Daly
River”).
Reading it will be a chastening ex-
perience for many who think they know
aborigines. Its aboriginal hero, Phillip
Roberts, can suture a wound, drive an
ambulance, recognise the dread signs of
leprosy, fix a motor car, treat hook-
worm, yaws and a hundred other ail-
ments. He has eaten with knife and fork
at the Administrator’s table in Govern-
ment House, Darwin. In conversation
he holds his own with the best the white
man can throw' at him. Yet he remains
also Waipuldanya, the Alawa, the mas-
ter hunter. His ideal holiday is to throw
off his clothes and wearing only a brief
narga (loincloth), lead his family into
the bush, spear in hand, to live for a little
while in the manner of his forefathers.
Nominally a Christian, he also is a
High Djungayi of the Kunapipi cult. As
such, he wields ceremonial power when-
ever it is danced, whether it be his own
Roper River country, or down among
the Djingalis at Newcastle Waters, or
anywhere else in the 100,000 square
miles over which the Earth Mother wor-
ship of Kunapipi extends. As High Djun-
gayi he could order a man’s death, or
payment of a heavy fine. A secret fear
is that one day he may be called upon
to serve a turn as the hated Mulunguwa,
or tribal executioner.
The pull of both worlds has created
in him a permanent torment. This comes
out continually in bitter quotings of the
Bible, as he strives to justify to himself
those tribal beliefs which his scientific in-
telligence rejects, while his Alawa heart
can not.
Here indeed is a man fitted to stand
as an example for his people. In Lock-
wood, a journalist and author whose ex-
perience of the Territory goes back to
before the war, a man with genuine lik-
ing and respect for the aboriginal, Wai-
puldanya has found an author worthy of
his subject.
The story begins with young Waipul-
danya close to death, “sung” by a witch-
doctor in reprisal for an offence possibly
committed by his father, or even his
grandfather 30 years before. This is the
law of Pay-back .... An eye for an
eye.
Another sorcerer, Gudjiwa, saves the
child’s life with a blend of dancing, im-
precations and herbal mixtures. “Gud-
giwa carried a piece of tree bark made
into a coolamon. Now he put his hand
over my heart and began sucking my
arm near the shoulder. His cheeks swell-
ed and in a moment he spat a mouthful
of blood into the coolamon. Then he
sucked again, sucked and spat until the
coolamon was dripping with blood ....
My body relaxed. The nausea passed. I
spoke coherently .... My advent into
civilisation has taught me that certain
things are physically impossible. I have
had medical training and I understand
the basic precepts of anatomy. I know
that you can’t get blood from a stone, and
yet I know that Gudgiwa got it through
my skin by sucking ”
We read of the many things which go
to make Waipuldanya, child of the bush
born in a couch of paperbark, into a
Man among Men. He grew up beside
the Roper. Like any boy he hunted,
fished, rode the mission horses whenever
he had the chance. The guardian of his
welfare was the maternal uncle, Stanley
Marbunggu, appointed to “grow him up”,
of whom Roberts says: “He helped me
more than anyone who is not an abori-
ginal could understand.”
The making of a man begins when he
is nine with a trial of pain crude cir-
cumcision, done with a razor blade.
Many Alawa customs will revolt Euro-
pean readers .... Mothers feeding their
children mouth to mouth, like birds;
or sucking out the congested nostrils
when a baby has a cold. Others will
puzzle those who call themselves civil-
ized. Though they live so very close to
nature, the Alawa do not believe concep-
tion occurs through sexual intercourse.
Instead “it is achieved immaculately by
the spirits, much as happened to the Vir-
gin Mary”.
The bush is peopled with strange foes.
The dreaded Winjin Woman. The Bur-
gingin pigmies, three feet tall but strong
enough to break an Alawa in two. The
Malanugga-nugga, flesh and blood tribes-
men who once lived in the Stone Coun-
try of Arnhem Land, feared raiders and
warriors until the lure of the white man’s
trade goods brought them out to the
coast, to mingle peacefully with other
tribes. The Malanugga-nugga still have
a grim place in the memory of the Alawa.
For 30 years this was Waipuldanya’s
life. In the river he catches barramundi.
Sam Ulagang, great hunter and horse-
man, teaches him how to stalk and spear
the wallaby. For several years he is a
stockman, breaking horses and muster-
ing cattle for the Church Missionary
Society, and never receiving a penny in
wages.
Within the tribe Waipuldanya’s stature
increases. He is a Djungayi of the Kuna-


BOOKS FOR
AUSTRALIANS
THIS IS THE GRASS: Alan Marshall
Alan Marshall’s brilliant sequel to I Can
Jump Puddles, a book of extraordinary force
and poetic insight the story of how an
adolescent establishes himself as a man and
a writer. Jacket by Vane Lindesay. 222 pages.
21/-
FORTY-TWO FACES: John Hetherington
These profiles of famous living Australian,
writers present in sharp detail the men and
women whose writings are the staff of our
literature. Photographic plates and full biblio-
graphies add reference value to enjoyment.
Jacket by Robin Wallace-Crabbe. 268 pages.
357-
WOMEN IN AUSTRALIA: Norman MacKenzie
A highly readable, scholarly book analysing
the roles which Australian women are accus-
tomed to play—or which custom obliges them
to play in our society today. The author,
until recently an editor of the New Statesman,
visited Australia in 1960 specifically to prepare
this report for the Social Science Research
Council Jacket by Nancy Parker. 440 pages.
50/-
SEATO: edited by George Modelski
A dispassionate, critical analysis of the South
East Asia Treaty Organization by R. Gavin
Boyd. Rosemary Brissenden, Warren Hogan,
George Modelski and Leicester C. Webb, with
a foreword by Sir John Crawford. Published
for the Australian National University. 340
pages. 75/-
AUSTRALIAN CIVILIZATION: edited by Feter
Coleman
Now in its second printing this is the sym-
posium of which J. D. Pringle wrote: “Freed
at last from the national myths in which they
grew up, Australians can see their country
honestly and see it whole.” 258 pages. 357-
TIME WITHOUT CLOCKS: Joan Lindsay
Lady Lindsay’s fascinating, civilized journey
into times past, which brings back some
very special people, on both sides of the
world. The jacket is designed by Alison
Forbes, from a painting by Sir Daryl Lindsay.
226 pages. Due: November 16 30/-
THE WALLS AROUND US: Robin Boyd
The story of Australian architecture, from the
first mud huts to the Sydney Opera House,
by author of The Australian Uglin ss. With
Robin Boyd’s profuse and colourful illustra-
tions, it will captivate young and old alike.
96 pages. Due: November 16 19/6
OUT OF THE SHADOW: Hugh Anderson
In this biography of John Pascoe Fawkner,
founder of Victoria, the author of Colonial
Ballads gives a brilliant account of an extra-
ordinary career. Illustrated with photographic
plates and printes of early Melbourne.
248 pages. Due: November 23 30/-
AT ALL BOOKSELLERS
F. W. CHESHIRE
pipi, a fertility rite through which the
Alawa worship the Earth Mother, and
which they regard as the most sacred of
all corroborees. Once it ended with the
women laying their bodies on the ground
for the men to perform acts of ritual
intercourse.
“In the storm-bird time when the man-
goes ripen and the flying foxes play”,
Waipuldanya married. He had no say
in choosing his life partner. That was
the business of maternal uncle Stanley
Marbunggu, who selected Hannah Dul-
ban, a girl of 15 whose Ngamayang
totem was “right-side” for Waipuldanya’s
Bungadi “skin”. They had been segregat-
ed in the way of aboriginal children and
had never exchanged more than a word
or two. Married without consulting each
other, at the direction of the tribal eld-
ers, they have produced six daughters
and now live in a white-man house in
the Darwin suburb of Nightcliff.
All this time with the tribe, Waipul-
danya felt something was missing. The
Alawa were no longer masters of their
environment. At the mission school he
had learned things that even Ulagang,
gieat man that he was, could never teach
him. There were the stories his father
told him of when the first squatters came
to the Roper, the Hodgson and the Lim-
men, before the missionaries and police
brought law and order to the country.
“Bad times. Bad times arright. We bin
live like wallabies, frightened-one, all-
about all-a-time walkabout. No more sit-
down one place and be happy. All-a-
time we go, we go, run away from white
man and his bullet. Naked we go. Got
nothing blanket, nothing food, only what
we hunt. Nothing water, only what we
steal from white-feller man. . . . We bin
hear white man shout: ‘Shoot ’em nigger
woman cos ’em breeders!’ ’Nother time
we bin hear white man shout: ‘Get ’im
lasso longa that young gin. Make ’im
good stud. Get ’im har’ cars picanniny
for stockman . . . .”
Waipuldanya felt the need to know
more of these strange and terrifying
people who now controlled so completely
the Alawa destiny. Many helped him
take those first difficult steps out of the
primitive. The mission taught him the
mysteries of motor vehicles. A sergeant
of police induced him to take a job as
driver-mechanic for Dr Spike Langsford,
who was on a medical tour of the out-
back. He became interested in medicine.
Later Waipuldanya, now Phillip Roberts
for all time, met Dr Jim Tarleton Ray-
ment, who taught him. to handle an X-
ray machine on a TB survey.
He was sent to wander the bush, with-
out w'hite guidance, in search of lepers.
Leprosy, one of the most dread diseases
known to man, is endemic among the
Arnhem Land tribes. Phillip Roberts re-
gards it as a personal enemy. It killed
his mother and kept his young brother
isolated for 12 years in a leprosarium.
His duties, as the Department of
Health grew to know and trust him, were
diverse. One time he was sent back
to the Roper to catch anopheles mos-
quitoes for malaria research. Another
time he flew to Noumea in New Cale-
donia for a conference on native hygiene.
For six months he was stationed at the
Government settlement of Maningreda
treating lepers and other patients with
the aid of advice radioed from Darwin.
Among his people he is known as
“Doctor Waipuldanya” and is often em-
barrassed by their faith in his medical
knowledge. He got his own brand of
“Pay-back” on the sorcerer who had
“sung” him in his youth by saving a
witchdoctor’s ailing child. “I was now
happier than I had been since reaching
adulthood. I had a sense of achievement
and personal satisfaction. My life was
beginning to mean more than I had ever
dreamed possible.”
Yet the bush still calls. Only a few
years ago, when he felt his spear arm
was getting rusty, Phillip Roberts walked
home from Mataranka, hunting as he
went. Two months and 150 miles later
he reached the Roper, loaded with pre-
sents and message sticks picked up en
route. At Maningreda he won the re-
spect of the tribes for ever. One week-
end he stripped to a narga, picked up
his spears and went bush, followed by
his numerous family. His ears were
burning with a raucous chorus of: “Look
at the doctor. H-a-a-a-h! H-a-a-a-h! He
no more bin got’m boot, no more trou-
ser, no more shirt. ...” But the voices
were stilled in admiration when he re-
turned hours later with a wallaby, badge
of the master hunter, slung across his
shoulders. This proof, that he was one
of them after all, won for Phillip Roberts
what he still regards as the most enjoy-
able holiday of his life a walkabout
with some of the Maningreda tribesmen.
On the Cadell River they found ten
white men, Naval surveyors, existing on
tinned food and brackish water in the
middle of what, to an aboriginal, was a
storehouse of bush tucker. To their
amazement Roberts produced his tools
of trade and treated them for dysentery,
sores, wounds, head and stomach aches;
while Galbaranga, the Left-Hand-Man,
organised a hunt to provide these sorry
specimens of white men with fresh meat.
Later, when all this was being re-
enacted at a play corroboree, Roberts
tried to explain the atom and hydrogen
bombs, and other problems of civilisa-
tion. “If they start dropping them”, said
Galbaranga, “then it might not be a bad
thing to be an old bush blackfellow. We’ll
still be living off the land, but they’ll
have to learn.”
For a man like Phillip Roberts, life


For CHRISTMAS giving
MAY WE SUGGEST
\7"oungblood Hawke
HERMAN WOUK
by the author of The Caine Mutiny 375. 6d.
loan Sutherland
RUSSELL BRADDON
the story of a star in the making 28s. Od.
\ tlantic Fury
HAMMOND INNES
a tale of the sea, storms and disaster 20s. Od.
he Deadline
PAUL BRICKHILL
“as gripping as an angry lobster’s claw” 225. Od.
A Prologue to Love
TAYLOR CALDWELL
she had too much money: too little love 31s. Od.
Renoir My Father
JEAN RENOIR
a great painter by his famous son 445. 9d.
Know My Love
CATHERINE GASKIN
love for a woman: lust for gold 225. 6d.
H
and in Glove
NGAIO MARSH
a classic novel of detection 20s. Od.
V"
ue of Ice
GEOFFREY JENKINS
a tingling tale of the Antarctic 225. Od.
K
irkland Revels
VIRGINIA HOLT
romantic novel of love and terror 20s. Od.
AT YOUR FAVOURITE BOOKSHOP
Choose COLLINS Books
can never be easy. “Even now, when
Larbaryandji calls, the urge to return is
strong indeed, almost undeniable when
lie between man-made walls, beneath
an unnatural blanket of iron which pre-
vents my seeing the moon and the stars.
But I was shown the road ahead. The
Green Light is flashing and I want to
cross the intersection before it changes.”
Phillip Roberts, Waipuldanya, would
be in his forties now. The Government
has awarded him Australian citizenship
—the “Medal of Freedom”. In years
to come, I have no doubt, he will emerge
as a leader not only of the Alawa but
G f a p t h e a boriginal people. In teiling
the story of Waipuldanya’s life Lock-
,,*, . . „
*° , f™*’ a
haS als ° P roduced a work of art and a
rattling good yarn,
KEITH WILLEY
PUTTING MAWSON
IN HIS PLACE
The Winning of Australian Antarctica.
Based on the Mawson Papers. A.
Grenfell Price. Angus & Robertson.
505., published for the Mawson
Institute of Antarctic Research,
Adelaide.
Qomebody should really speak to Dr
Grenfell Price about this volume and
reprove him for the way in which he has
defied modern convention in such
matters. The proper way to serve up the
contents of a personal narrative of ex-
ploration and adventure by a national
figure is to produce 120 pages or so of
introduction (as patronising as possible),
telling the editor’s view's about him, ex-
plaining what his motives were, turning
over the facets of his character and
generally in the end leaving the impres-
sion that he is very lucky in having
found so excellent and knowledgeable an
editor to pin-point his significance. The
volume, if produced in the modern tradi-
tion, should then be embellished with fat
pages of notes, about nothing in par-
ticular, to further indicate the editor’s
omniscience. The subject himself should
be allotted a reasonably modest space,
just enough to put him in his right place.
Dr Grenfell Price has broken all these
salutary rules and therefore can expect
nearly all the credit for Sir Douglas
Mawson’s work to go to Mawson him-
self, something likely to be looked on as
very wrong in the Australian academic
world. He is satisfied to introduce
Volume I of the narrative of Mawson’s
Geographical Report of the British, Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Antarctic
Research Expedition, 1929-31 (of which
the general editor is P. M. Thomas), by a
page and a half of biography of Mawson
by Lord Casey, who was intimately con-
nected with the genesis of the project,
and a couple of pages of author’s notes
describing the method and procedures
pursued in editing, and the editor’s
acknowledgments to helpers, plus a page
summarising Mawson’s contribution to
the geography of Australian Antarctica
which is represented by the addition
of two and a half million square miles
of Antarctica to Australian territory.
The rest is an excellent piece of
editing of a group of documents neces-
sarily both extensive and diffuse. The re-
duction of these to their adequate mini-
mum provides a narrative of Mawson’s
first voyage, October 1929-April 1930,
and second voyage, November 1930-
March 1931. It is introduced by a con-
densed picture of the work of previous
explorers, necessary to the understanding


Highlights in
fiction
JULIET ROLLESTON: IN MY LADY’S CHAMBER, 21/- • HAL PORTER: A BACHELOR’S
CHILDREN, 22/6 • E. V. TIMMS: THE BIG COUNTRY, 22/6 • (to be published later this
month)—THEA ASTLEY: THE WELL DRESSED EXPLORER, 22/6 • HELEN HENEY: THE
LEAPING BLAZE, 22/6 •■GWENDA HOOKER: SMITH’S ODYSSEY, 21/-.
poetry
To be published later this month—DOUGLAS STEWART: RUTHERFORD AND OTHER
POEMS, 17/6 • R. D. FITZGERALD: SOUTHMOST TWELVE, 17/6 • JUDITH WRIGHT: BIRDS,
12/6 • AUSTRALIAN POETRY 1962, 15/-.
practical
CLAIRE WEEKES: SELF HELP FOR YOUR NERVES, 27/6 • LANCE WEDLICK: FISHING IN
AUSTRALIA, 42/- • JOHNNIE MOYES: BENAUD, 25/-.
general
COLIN SIMPSON: PLUMES AND ARROWS, 45/- • COLIN SIMPSON: ASIA’S BRIGHT
BALCONIES, 37/6 • lON IDRIESS: MY MATE DICK, 27/6 • A. GRENFELL PRICE: THE
WINNING OF AUSTRALIAN ANTARCTICA, 50/- • IVAN SOUTHALL: WOOMERA, 37/6 •
M. J. MEGGITT: DESERT PEOPLE, 52/6 • JOHN ANDERSON: STUDIES IN EMPIRICAL
PHILOSOPHY, 42/- • P. R. STEPHENSEN & N. K. WALLIS: SYDNEY SAILS, 63/- «
J. N. RAWLING: CHARLES HARPUR, 45/- • NOEL MONKMAN: QUEST OF THE CURLY-TAILED
HORSES, 37/6 • THE PROSE OF CHRISTOPHER BRENNAN, 45/-.
children’s
IVAN SOUTHALL: HILLS END, 18/6 • GEORGE FINKEL: MYSTERY OF SECRET BEACH,
18/6 • SHEILA HAWKINS: AUSTRALIAN ANIMALS AND BIRDS, 18/6 ® MEG LEWIS: IT ALL
BEGAN WITH CALAMITY, 17/6 • JOAN PHIPSON: FAMILY CONSPIRACY, 17/6.
All Published by Angus & Robertson
of Mawson’s work, plus an equally suc-
cinct account of the causes which led up
to the two voyages, and of their pre-
history and financial aspects.
The first voyage, in Mawson’s words,
“removed a blank area of approximately
150,000 square miles from the charts of
the world”, the new ground covered in
eluding the “area designated Mcßobert-
son Land together with lands further to
the West known as Kemp Land and
Enderby Land, portions of which, though
vaguely reported 100 years ago, were
never since confirmed.” The whole of
this land and the off-lying islands were
claimed for the Crown by the Expedi-
tion.
The second expedition resulted in the
British Order in Council which proclaim-
ed the King’s sovereign rights over the
Antarctic territory (other than Adelie
Land) south of 60 S. and between longs.
45 E. and 160 E. and the placing of this
territory under the authority of the
Commonwealth. The Commonwealth
passed an acceptance Bill in June 1933,
but the Bill was not proclaimed till
August 1936, the interval being marked
by disputes with Norway about nomen-
clature. Norway was the second nation
to acquire a slice of Antarctica.
The annotation contains a purview of
the controversy over Wilkes’s explora-
tions of 1-840,'an adequate gazetteer by
G. W. Mckinnon and 60- magnificent
historic photographs of the expedition
and its personnel and adventures by the
late Frank -Hurley, plus 12 important
official maps and sketches. The whole
work is carried out by its editor with
a commendable -economy of wordage
and this produces clarity and order-
liness rare in modern volumes of this
type. It is a most useful addition to
Australian historiography.
M. H. ELLIS
SALI HERMAN
Sali Herman. Australian Art Mono-
graphs. Introduction by Daniel
Thomas. Georgian House. 355.
volume on Sali Herman is the
second to appear in Georgian House's
“Australian Art Monographs” under the
general editorship of Bernard Smith.
The emphasis in Daniel Thomas’s In-
troduction is on the significance of
Herman’s Sydney slum scenes. His image
of Australia, Thomas suggests, “has en-
tered the national consciousness”, - and
the recent fashionable return to inner
Sydney can be in part attributed to Her-
man’s exposition of the richness and
beauty to be found in crowded urban
life. The claim may be somewhat extra-
vagant, but the emphasis is certainly just.
The slum scenes always stand out as
Herman’s most successfully realised work,
as the world where he is most at home.
In his other landscapes he is still a
polished craftsman, with a particularly
fine sense of color, but less persistent in
his search for the characteristic life
which animates the place.
The plates do the artist only rough
justice. Eight are in color, of average
quality, and thirty in black and white.
All are scaled down to between a quarter
and a sixth their original size. Some of
the scaling down seems unnecessarily
stringent, and based' merely on the
curious exigency that every reproduction
must be right way up as the pages are
turned. One plate for instance (plate 5)
occupies the top right hand corner of a
pure white double page like an elaborate
postage stamp. Turned end up it could
have been nearly twice the size. No one
surely who has just spent thirty-five


AUSTRALIAN
PAINTING
1788-1960
BERNARD SMITH
Here, almost for the first time, is a
full-scale definitive history of Austra-
lian painting from its early colonial
beginnings to the vivid contempor-
ary work that is arousing such wide-
spread interest today both in Australia
and overseas. It has been written
not for the specialist but for those
seeking a useful, reliable and compre-
hensive introduction to the subject.
The book is lavishly illustrated with
192 half-tone illustrations, 42 of them
in colour.
370 pages, 9-J" x 7"
105/-
OXFORD UNIVERSITY
PRESS
BUT STILL THE STREAM
Nancy Cato —22/6
Completing her Murray River
trilogy which began in ALL
THE RIVERS RUN and con-
tinued in TIME FLOW SOFTLY
both of which are now 9/6.
THE WILL OF THE TRIBE
Arthur Upheld
The latest Bony mystery set in
North-Western Australia.
17/6
At every bookshop
HEINEMANN
shillings would want to rush so quickly
through the plates that he would resent
swivelling the book a few times.
For my part I would like to see as
much care spent on the plates in this
series as has been spent on the talk. The
paintings after all are the main interest.
BILL HANNAN
PLENTY OF YAMS FOR THE DIGGING
By DOUGLAS TERRY
Journey Among Men. Jock Marshall
and Russell Drysdale. Hodder and
Stoughton. 525.
TMTovement is not necessary in a travel
book; it can be written sitting still.
Reality comes through the window,
burns like a taper under the naiis. Travel
in this sense is self-discovery and is con-
cerned less with doing things than with
finding things out. The typical Austra-
lian travel book, however, has come to
mean one that deals with other people
in a distant landscape. The city, it
seems, is not as yet appropriate for ex-
ploration, or are rivers or coastlines;
nor, come to that, are the western plains,
those classical grounds that first yielded
up a sort of national ethos of the out-
back. The real bush begins beyond the
10-inch rainfall belt where the poverty
of the soil contrasts oddly with the fer-
tility of its writers.
For the most part, these fall into three
rough groups. There are the slummers,
marvellously delicate they are, who look
for Europe among the spinifex and, find-
ing a bottle dump, are hostile towards a
way of life they so scarcely feel, so
slightly comprehend. The biggest group
belongs to the mythmakers, much stom-
ach and little head, Thursday’s children,
for whom every tosspot and brawler be-
yond the Black Stump is an exciting illus-
tration of the heroic type. The third
group is the only one worth rereading.
The few who compose it write out of
intimate experience. At ease with the
land in all seasons, they understand
something of its freedom and indepen-
dence, the deadening effect manual labor
has on the mind, the suffering in untidy
places.
“Journey Among Men” belongs in a
way to the last two groups. It is so like
the usual thing anecdotal, descriptive,
episodic—yet it is more than a flabby
diary of incidents for having a spine of
factual material drawn from the sciences,
laid out with some grace.
It is the product of a happy collabora-
tion between two friends of formidable
parts. Jock Marshall, Professor of Zoo-
logy and Comparative Physiology at
Monash University, Victoria, has man-
aged somehow to combine a varied aca-
demic career with exploring out-of-the-
way places in New Guinea and Spitsber-
gen. Russell Drysdale, with a background
of life on the family property in the
Riverina, has studied abroad and is now
a painter of international repute. Their
book is an absorbing record of an expedi-
tion to the far north-west to collect zoo-
logical specimens.
It is a handsome production, carefully
put together, civilised, informative, af-
fectionate. Although it is pitched mainly
to an English audience, it still stands on
its own legs. Drysdale’s illustrations
alone make it a welcome addition to Aus-
traliana.
Some of the material we have met be-
fore, for literary incest is unavoidable
on the beaten track —the description of
Broome, for example, Mikimoto and the
story of cultured pearls, Daisy Bates and
her work in the outback, but there is a
good deal on local fauna and flora which
is new in this context and some useful
extracts too from the diaries of earlier
explorers Flinders on the wombat,
Cook on the bustard, Pelsaen on the
opossum, Dampier on the New Holland-
ers, “the miserablest people in the
world”.
There are plenty of yams for the dig-
ging. We learn, for example, that a wow-,
ser is a gentleman who uses a contracep-
tive as a book-mark for his Bible. A
nong is one who has only three cerebral
cells, one working clockwise, the other
anti-clockwise, and so the poor fellow
has only one grey cell to see him through.
For the academics there is the note that
Jonathan Swift took his location of the
“country of the Houyhnhms” from Dam-
pier’s voyage to Shark’s Bay. And for
the terribly House-and-Garden types per-
haps there is that old recipe: “Take one
galah, prepare it carefully, and cook with
one piece of quartz over a slow fire.
When the rock is soft, the galah is fit to
be eaten.”
Woven into the text is observation of
uneven quality. On landscape it is good,
on people it is rather ordinary, while the
illustrations seem effective in just the re-
verse manner. What is meant by lying
like an eye-witness may account for some
curious omissions. There is very little
about the aborigines or women or reli-
gion and the authors have surprisingly
little to reveal about themselves. Even
the eccentrics like Harmonious Harry,
Brandy John and others mentioned in the
first paragraph turn out to be quite mar-
ginal to the story.
We find a few of the familiar pieties
about outback folk their simplicity,
hospitality, etc., and the title itself im-
plies they don't come like this anywhere
else. Yet the ones we meet are not such
a spectacular lot; bottling their blood
seems hardly worthwhile.
It is all a vivid account to be savoured
with pleasure. The price we have paid
for staying behind in cities might lie in
the authors’ troubled comment made on
their return: People whom we had never
met before, and from whom we asked
directions, talked to us as though we
were strangers.


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
Trading deficit reflects tempo
In those ominous four months July to October 1960, imports
flooded into Australia to the tune of £3BO million. Over-
development, they said, was plainly creating a burden of a
balance of payments deficit. So, the “dampening down” —the
foot on the soft pedal—came that year with some painful
results.
Under the weight of the “wet blanket” credit squeeze and
non-development, imports in the same four months of 1961
were just over £lOO million less —and at £278 million were no
burden on the nation.
With recovery apparent to some months ago, it is not sur-
prising to find the import bill on the up again. But £367.7
million in the four months to October 1962 may be as high
an import rate as the nation can stand; that is, in the absence
of a dramatic rise in export revenue.
Exports, despite flamboyant assertions to the opposite, do not
give great signs of increase. Indeed, in the same four months
that the import bill rose to <£367.7 million, exports brought in
£316 million —some £24 million less than in the same four
months of 1961.
The absence of “windfall” shipments of wheat to Red China,
that were so apparent in the July-October figures last year
makes up a good deal of the fall away in export revenue.
(More wheat is to go to Red China now.) But, is a holding
position in exports good enough to sustain an increasing import
lull?
No, it is not. The deficit on trading account for the first four
months of the year comes out at £51.8 million. This deficit
will run upwards of £l5O million even allowing for some
increase in exports in the remainder of the year.
And, it does not end here. Freight and insurance on imports
will cost the nation somewhere about £l3O-£l4O million in
1962-63. Dividends, profits, interest and other invisible pay-
ments will have to be made, too.
Currently such deficits are being held by a continued flow
of capital into the country. Evidencing this is the Reserve
Bank’s overseas holding. In the four months that the nation
paid out £51.8 million more for goods than it received, this
most senior of the nation’s international reserves moved up £6
million to £492 million.
Australia, of course, has little or no control over this capital
flow. Is it, therefore, wise to close eyes to the continuation of
overseas trading deficits? One thing becomes certain and that
is if the capital flow dries up, even partially (for any variety
of reasons) some action will have to be taken on trading
account to protect reserves. This, of course, would be delayed
as the current high reserves were slowly used.
The portents are there. Australia, last year, did not
“develop” as much as most would want. But not one monthly
trading deficit was registered.
The permanent answer to this bogey of overseas deficit lies
in the export ledger. Australia must have better results from
exports if it is to develop at the rate necessary to cope even with
the work force explosion now upon us.
AN EXCHANGE LOOKS
OVER THE SHOULDER
npHE 1961-62 report of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne says
that apart from general economic considerations several
other factors contributed to the uncertain course of share prices
over the last year.
One of these was that although the share market had always
historically looked forward, last year it “tended to glance over
its shoulder at the past.”
The question now, presumably, is whether it has had its fill
of this and is now looking forward into the realms of growth.
On this it says: “Investors at present appear to be taking the
view that the rate of expansion in the next decade will be some-
what lower. Many portfolios have been adjusted to provide in-
come from a larger proportion of fixed interest securities rather
than accept low yields on equity stocks.
“On this assumption the last nine months may be regarded
as a transitional period providing a base from which the share
market should now commence to show steady advancement
both in volume of turnover and in share prices.”
That is very nice to know, but investors also need reassuring
that some of the particular drags on share prices mentioned in
the report have ceased to operate, or are at least on the turn.
For instance “Funds were diverted from the investment sector
into oil shares.” Certainly this influence appears to have worked
itself out for the time being (that is, pending another big oil
strike outside the Moonie area.)
Again “investors swung away from equities into fixed interest
stock.” The leading question of the moment is: Have they
started to swing back? The present buoyancy of the bond
market and the continued marking time in share markets
hardly suggest so.
The report also says: “The New York downturn forced
many US investors to regain liquidity by selling large holdings
in several Australian securities.” On this Sir lan Potter opined
the other day that US investors would possibly look more
kindly on Australian shares in the near future, but have the
Cuban crisis on their minds at the moment.
Further, “The unsettled business climate was still reflected in
the early part of the year, particularly in some company
reports, and the confidence of small investors was dampened.”
It would seem that this confidence is still dampened but a
gradual thaw might well be on the way.
Finally “In most cases the tempo of buying by large institu-
tions was below the peak levels of 1959 and 1960.” A resur-
gence of institutional buying would be the most helpful factor
of all, but there is insufficient evidence of a big lift from such
quarters yet to be supremely confident on this score.


COLOMBO PLAN: TRADE
FOLLOWS AID
The current get-together of officials from the Colombo Plan
countries in conference-torn Melbourne is only a pre-
liminary canter for the meeting of Ministerial people later on
this month, but judging by the studied public comments of
some of the participants, economic development problems are
getting as good an airing as they’ve ever had in this country.
In the context of the “defence” preparations of some of
the plan countries, it is a little difficult for the public to grasp
where the aid fits in. It is easier to appreciate the value to
the recipient countries of technicians sent to teach them more
productive ways of life and of the technical and other
educational facilities we put at the disposal of visiting nationals
of the less well developed member countries.
When Sir Percy Spender got the Colombo Plan into motion
in the early 1950 s he was probably thinking more of the value
of the scheme to the economically weaker countries and not
so much of its value to Australia, except in terms of
conscience easing and keeping our northern neighbors happy
with a few crumbs from our more bountiful economic tables.
Now, however, the urgency of our developing new and
expanding old markets over the whole area of South East
Asia puts a new slant on things. There is no point in laboring
the altruism behind our whole-hearted support for the Plan
these days, but rather to put more aid at the disposal of the
needy countries with the idea of helping ourselves as well
as them.
We should now follow the precept of the Americans, never
averse to tying trade in with aid, because, as Britain’s likely
entry into the Common Market is showing, the idea of trade
following the flag is becoming more and more out of date.
WAYS TO MEET THE
HOUSING DEMAND
So much of the broad sheet on “Housing Demand A
Second Look”, by Dr A. R. Hall, in the C.E.D.A’s mono-
graph series, is taken up with reconciling the author’s previous
estimates with the 1961 census figures that he manages only
a brief look at future possibilities.
Dr Hall finds that if his estimates are taken literally the
effective demand for housing last year was rather less than the
established trend figure. But demand is likely to rise, he thinks.
In the absence of a general fluctuation in the economy as
a whole, Dr Hall believes a very strong demand for housing
could be expected in two or three year’s time; strong enough,
in fact, to put strains on the capacity of the building industry
to meet it.
“If this is a reasonable expectation,” he states, “then the
obvious policy now, at a time when there is still considerable
excess capacity in the industry, is to try to even out this ex-
pected fluctuation by taking up as much as possible of the
present slack in the industry. In the unlikely event that such
action would result in some excess capacity in terms of the
stock of houses, this should prove to be a boon two or three
years hence.
He sees a variety of ways to achieve this objective. “State
housing authority allocations could be raised, especially, by
tying a proportion of their increased advances to slum clearing
activity . . . The obvious way to stimulate private housing
activity now is to ease the terms on which housing finance is
made available and increasing the upper limit of the permitted
maximum loan.
“Finally, the authorities should have plans to make available
finance for the purchase of ‘old’ houses. On grounds of equity
and from the point of view of making the best immediate
use of the existing stock of houses such a policy might very
well be adopted now.”
OIL AND ITS
OWNERSHIP
Tn these days of successful Moonie oil strikes, a word of
caution comes from the Petroleum Information Bureau,
directed to those who may dream of emulating Texan oil
barons.
In Australia, all petroleum found above or below ground is
the property of the Crown. So, if you strike oil in your
own bailiwick, don’t immediately order a Cadillac or plan a
round-the-world junket unless your bank manager is kindly
disposed to red ink entries.
The PIB reminds that a landowner is not entitled to any
portion of profits made from the discovery of oil or gas on
his property. His rights are mainly limited to compensation
for loss of land or damage caused by exploration activities.
Nor does ownership of freehold land automatically bestow
rights to prospect for oil. No one can prospect without a
permit. And, if this isn’t enough to dampen the enthusiasm
of any amateur “wildcatter,” a landowner cannot refuse access
to his property to any person holding a permit.
PAKISTAN HARBOURS
CAPITAL ATTRACTIONS
Attracted by an eager market, and doubtless by some
attractive incentives, Australian industry—capital and
know-how—has been steadily spreading to Malaysia, particu-
larly Singapore in post-war years.
But further to the west a fellow Commonwealth country
has been neglected. Pakistan, once economically and politic-
ally unstable, now a little better, has attracted only the globe-
trotting Kiwi Polish Co.
Export of Australian prosperity to the likes of Pakistan
is not only a “jolly nice thing to do” but is an essential
facet of Australia’s military and social defence.
Pakistan has 100 million people, certainly not enjoying
Australia’s mode of living but improving standards almost
daily under the more stable regime now in power.
It would appear to the casual observer that Pakistan offers
markets for Australian exports of steel, electronics, irrigation
equipment and the like as well as wool and wheat. Yet
Pakistan has never been a great trading market for Aus-
tralian goods, and that seems a result of Australian nervous-
ness and timidity.
Australia conceivably could export capital and capital
goods to Pakistan; and certainly the Government there would
play a leading hand in the placement of such industry or
funds.
Tax has a holiday for new industries for four to eight
years; capital and profit repatriation is Government guaranteed
(at present); depreciation allowance is currently very liberal;
local labor is relatively inexpensive; and, importantly, the
Government gives direct assistance.
It would appear, then, that given a longer record of political
and economic stability, Pakistan could become a haven for
Australian industry as much as Malaysia is becoming. It
seems well worth investigation by Australian industrialists,
especially those with an eye to future trading within South
East Asia.


s
lmmM&
C8A737/24R
Travel with
confidence!
\> v
THE
COMMERCIAL BANK
OF AUSTRALIA
LIMITED
makes all
travel arrangements
for you!
Travelling for business or pleasure, you can
travel with complete confidence when your
travel reservations have been made by the
C.B.A.
Our experienced Travel Officers will gladly
arrange all details for you.
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
THE COMMERCIAL SAVINGS BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
THE MANTLE OF SUPER-OPTIMIST
By “CROESUS”
4 lthough some people who were only
very recently professing jaundiced
thoughts about the economy now pro-
fess to see miracles happening, the man-
tle of economic super-optimist seems a
shade more uncomfortable to wear after
the 3.7 per cent drop in retail sales in Sep-
tember following the previous month’s
encouraging rise.
While August’s retail sales were nearly
8 p.c. higher than the same month last
year, September's provisional figures,
issued last week, were only 1.3 p.c
higher than September 1961.
There was nothing seasonable about
the drop in September. Last year there
was a good increase in that month. How-
ever, it could be that after the August
spending spree and some second thoughts
on the Budget, shoppers decided to ease
off a little, a sort of reculer pour mieux
sauter in front of the high-spending pre-
Christmas months.
The tailing off of tax rebates in Sep-
tember, the weakness in the stock market
and the poor weather in the southern
States compared with the previous spring
could also have had something to do with
it, for it is noticed, too, that car sales
were decidedly lower after the previous
month's near record.
In the final analysis, September retail
sales may fall into place as part of the
irregular pattern on a rising trend of re-
tail spending this year, the record month
of May and the strong revival in August
after two moderate months in June and
July supporting this.
While the September retail sales figures
prompt cautionary thoughts on the speed
of the economic advance, there is no rea-
son at all to be gloomy, as some observers
have been over the week, about the
latest evidence from the balance of pay-
ments front.
For a start, it is a very satisfactory
position when, as in the September
quarter, we can finance a quarterly defi-
cit of £96 million on current account
without losing more than £1 million of
overseas reserves.
Only £l2 million of the deficit was
financed by loans, all of them seemingly
being dollar loans by the Government,
leaving £B6 million financed by apparent
capital inflow, some of which came in as
instalment payments for export sales to
China. (As these have not been credited
previously in the balance of payments
accounts they are true gain.)
This is an ideal situation in present
circumstances when we need the present
higher levels of imports to support indus-
trial recovery and soften the impact of
any inflationary pressure that might be
developing as the yeast in the economy
rises.
Moreover, judging by the better than
steady recent movement in overseas funds
in the face of rising imports, it is pretty
clear that capital inflow is, if anything,
continuing to increase.
There is no need to get fidgety about
the balance of payments but rather to
take comfort in its strength at a critical
stage in the recovery, and go for our life
to speed export sales all along the line,
even forgetting that wool looks like doing
a good part of the extra export desired
this year.
If spending has slowed down in the
last month or two and the capital market
has continued to be mostly a one-way
traffic into bonds, there is at least hearty
evidence from the Commonwealth Statis-
tician’s latest survey of capital spending of
private businesses that private investment
is on the upgrade.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE AND PLANNING
With so much talk of economic plan-
ning and research in the air, and
the Government itself instigating an eco-
nomic inquiry, it is understandable that
the Institute of Public Affairs should
make these subjects the burden of its
song at its annual meeting in Melbourne.
Naturally, Mr F. E. Lampe, chairman
of the Institute, which is backed finan-
cially by most of the big industrial firms
in the country, was at pains to warn
against any prescription for economic
prosperity which smacked of Govern-
ment interference with private enterprise.
Of course, as the IPA is only too well
aware, it has to be recognised that these
days Government touches business at all
points. For instance, taxation has a
critical effect on business decisions.
Equally public authority expenditure,
equivalent to more than a third of
national income last year, has a powerful
influence on the level and direction of
business activity.
Starting his obversations with the sug-
gestion that honors were pretty even be-
tween business and the Government in
the tardy recovery from the recession (for
which he didn't entirely blame the Gov-
ernment) Mr Lampe said that since the
recession there had been many counsels
of perfection.
He stated that “some people seem to
imagine that it is possible for Australia to
have a very much faster rate of expan-
sion and growth than we had in the
1950’5, which itself was a record in our
economic history. There is another idea
that there is no need ever to have what
has been labelled ‘stop and go’ in the
economy; in other words, that progress
can always be on a perfectly smooth,
straight line slanting sharply upwards.
“We are told today that there is an
unfailing remedy for economic ups and
downs, for the fluctuations which we ex-
perience every now and then. Appar-
ently this remedy will produce a kind
of millennium in our economic life, an
economy always in a state of absolutely
perfect health—the ‘lOO p.c. economy’
we might call it.
“The remedy proposed is not a new
one. It is the old remedy that has come
up again and again in the last 50 years.
Perhaps today it has been given a few
modern trappings. It is the remedy of
more and more Government planning
with the accompanying danger of de-
tailed control over the economic activi-
ties of the community so-called ‘plan-
ning with teeth’.
“We can have no faith or confidence
in such a prescription. I have said that
detailed Government planning is not a
new idea, but to hear some people talk-
ing about it today, you would think that
it was. This Institute was founded 20
years ago to do battle with that very
conception. You will remember that at
that time total Government planning was
said to be the key to the kingdom. All
our difficulties could be overcome, all
our troubles resolved, through the ex-
pedient of the highly planned economy.
“Fortunately, Australia rejected that
path. Our industrial development in the
last decade or so, our progress in achiev-
ing full employment and social security,
our great economic expansion, our tre-
mendously improved standards of living,
bear witness to what has been achieved.
“When you look back, the improve-
ments already accomplished in the bet-
ter management of our economy are
staggering, indeed almost miraculous.
And we should be able to look forward
to further improvement as time goes on.
While we can have no confidence in the
prescription of detailed Government plan-
ning, this does not mean that there
should not be closer co-operation be-
tween Government and industry.
“Effective consultation between gov-
ernment and industry will necessitate a
substantial strengthening of fact-finding
research and analysis of the type of in-
formation which is to be found only
within industry itself. Careful analysis
of historical and forward statistics by ex-
pert business opinion is essential if ad-
vice to the Government and plans for
the future are to be soundly based. Such
consultative planning should ensure that
the necessary corrective measures would
be taken much earlier and consequently
would be less drastic.
“Care must be taken, however, to
keep consultative planning of this kind
in its proper perspective. Consultative
planning means co-operation, not coer-
cion, encouragement not compulsion. It
means closer association, and thus un-
derstanding, between Government and
leaders of industry. It does not mean
governmental control and bureaucratic
direction of industry.”
This is a very sensible statement of
the limits industry would like to see put
to overall planning of the Australian
economy, but it still leaves a wide area
of the role of Government and quasi-
Government authorities in economic
direction open to debate in the context
of economic co-ordination.
For one thing while business is rightly
confident it could achieve a more con-
sistent performance as a result of a better
mutual understanding with Government,
in the last resort it has to recognise that
it is Government which is charged with
the responsibility of sustaining full em-
ployment and growth. Its view of the
desirability of imposing restraining
measures on the economy may, for in-
stance, be entirely unacceptable to Gov-
ernment.
Purely in the sphere of Government's
own jurisdiction, if business is to be fully
acquainted with the economic aspira-
tions of Government and Government in
its turn is to be fully acquainted with
the reactions of business to possible de-
cisions, nothing short of a business or
economic advisory board to Government
is required.
Further, strictly Government decisions
aside, as there are three major instru-
ments, the Tariff Board, the Reserve
Bank and the Arbitration Commission,
which take their own independent actions
with a vital effect on the direction of
the economy, to be truly effective an
advisory board would also have to act
as a co-ordinating body of advice for
Government instrumentalities and these
quasi-Government authorities.
Maybe there is less need for such a
body to advise the Tariff Board or the
Reserve Bank than the Arbitration Com-
mission. The former two have a thicken-
ing of businessmen to guide their coun-
sels. The latter has not. It is the only
one of these three instrumentalities which
doesn't arrive at decisions without the
benefit of business advice, yet it governs
an area of economic direction of more
far-reaching importance to the economy
than the other two.
However, what is most needed is to
see that these three instrumentalities are
all moving in step and that their deci-
sions are not at cross purposes, but are
also geared in the same general direction
as those of Government and in sympathy
with business.
In fact our greatest need in the eco-
nomics sphere is not for overall plan-
ning but to co-ordinate the activities of
our diverse economic policy makers so
that we can make a consistent advance
towards objectives mutually agreed be-
tween the authorities and business.
Call it what you like, an ideal co-
ordinating body might be of five mem-
bers, an industrialist, a businessman, a
trade unionist, an economist and a pri-
vate banker, with permanent headquar-
ters in one of the major State capitals,
not in the remote quietness of the bush
but in the thick of the business stream.
It would not still the clamor of vested
interests, it might not put an end to
lobbying, but it could conceivably get a
little order and consistency into econo-
mic policy making and even point the
way for more positive planning for the
best use of resources.


James Wallace
(HOLDINBS) LIMITED
An issue at
par (£100) of
£500,000
registered
first mortgage
debenture
stock
2 YEARS 61% PA.
3 YEARS 7% PA.
4 YEARS.... 7Wo PA.
AND SHORTER TERMS AVAILABLE
Per Annum
5 and 10
years. j
METHOD OF INVESTING Application for Debenture
Stock will proceed only on one of the forms of application
referred to in and attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus
obtainable from and lodged with
■ JAMES WALLACE (HOLDINGS) LIMITED,
123 Sussex Street, Sydney.
■ The Commercial Banking” Company of
Sydney Limited any branch in New South
Wales or the Australian Capital Territory.
■ Any member of a Recognised Stock
Exchange.
Underwriting Brokers
■ RALPH W. KING & YUILL (members of the
Sydney Stock Exchange), 20 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, with offices at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Grafton, Tamworth.
B.H.P.'S SEARCH
FOR OIL IN
BASS STRAIT
T>roken Hill Proprietary's contract
with Western Geophysical Co. of
the US to carry out a marine seismic
survey in the waters of Bass Strait this
summer puts an end to doubts whether
BHP is serious in its intention to engage
in off-shore search for oil.
Following the company's acquisition
of a permit to explore the strait some
two years ago, a BHP subsidiary, Her-
matite Exploration Pty Ltd carried out
aeronautic surveys. Recently the permit
expired, but has been renewed by the
Tasmanian Government. No hint has
been given of the results of the aeronautic
survey, but they were apparently
favourable enough for the company to
proceed further.
This makes it all the more puzzling
why Frome-Broken Hill has sited its
latest two wells (a second one is to be
drilled) ten miles west of the recently
unsuccessful well 18 miles north west
of Port Fairy inwards from the coast
in Western Victoria, compared with its
four original wells in the Port Campbell
area. Frome-Broken Hid has permits
over off-shore territory 15 miles from the
coast over practically the whole Vic-
torian coastline west of Port Phillip.
Victorian Mines Department surveys
and those of Frome-Broken Hill lend
support to the view that the marine
sedimentary rocks known to be present
in Western Victoria (but not so far con-
firmed in Gippsland) thicken seawards.
The presumption is that there is more
likelihood of discovering oil in Bass
Strait than on the mainland of Vic-
toria.
Clearly both Frome-Broken Hill and
Woodside, which has most of Gipps-
land, including off-shore areas under
permit, are reluctant to try their luck
by drilling in the strait, or are in fact
waiting to see whether BHP with its
powerful resources succeeds in locating
any closed structures there. (Woodside
is in fact doing some seismic work off
the Gippsland coast in conjunction with
BHP.)
Woodside has planned four new wells
in the area of Lakes Entrance and three
of these are close to the shore two
shallow wells in the vicinity of Lake
Tyers to test pre-tertiaries to the south
and east of the lake, and the other at
Seaspray. The fourth is to be drilled in-
land between Briagolong and Bairnsdale.
But while not anxious to get its feet
wet in Gippsland, Woodside has appar-
ently no qualms about plunging into the
warmer waters in the west. The com-
pany has recently applied for a permit
for off-shore search over 98,325 square
miles of sea extending north-east of the
Monte Bello Islands near Onslow (WA).
There are, the company thinks, several
promising extensive reefs in the area
as well as a number of small ones and
some shallow waters in the continental
shelf off the WA coast. The last time
Woodside took an interest in WA was
its unsuccessful attempt to get Kalgoor-
lie Goldfields Petroleum in 1956 when
that company had permit areas, since
relinquished, in the Albany area on the
edge of the Eucla basins.


SURPRISING TURNOVER IN BHP SHARES
FPhe Stock Exchange of Melbourne’s
A switch to post trading earlier this
year meant many things. Not the least
important of these has been the pro-
vision of more detailed statistics of turn-
overs of individual securities, including
their monetary value.
It comes as no surprise to see in the
Exchange’s annual report, issued last
week, that these turnover statistics put
BHP at the top of the list of turnovers
by value among industrial stocks in the
nine months to September 30. What is
a bit surprising is to learn that BHP’s
turnover of £7,389,000 during the
period was more than the combined
turnover of the next five most actively
traded stocks (by value of turnover)
including trading in rights and partly
paids.
These were ACI (£1,654,000), Myer
Emporium (£1,557,000), G. J. Coles
(£1,282,000), Herald and Weekly
Times (£1,236,000) and Peters (Vic.)
(£1,110,000). Incidentally Peters (Vic.)
took pride of place in number of shares
traded, with 3,822,000, but then these
are 2s. shares whereas BHP with
2,489,000 shares trade in second place,
have a £1 par value.
Another turnover highlight mentioned
in the report is that for the first time
in the history of the Exchange sales of
ordinary shares, rights and options
exceeded 100 million units, the turnover
for 1961-62 being 109.3 million, or 25
p.c. higher than the year before,
with the peak monthly turnover (in
February) as high as 996,000.
Another feature was the 175 p.c.
increase in mining (including ore) turn-
over to 33.6 million units, with March
the record month when on one day turn-
over reached 458,000 shares.
Against this, and despite record
official loan raisings, bond turnover was
slightly lower at £31.3 million. The
report attributes this to the fact that
“much of the business which has
previously passed through the market is
now transacted by the official short-
term money market where a majority of
the authorised dealers are associated
with member firms of the Exchange.”
A further 50 companies were added
to the official list last year (61 in 1960-
61) including new floats and others
previously listed on other Exchanges. In
addition, five holding companies were
formed to replace one or more com-
panies acquired in each case.
Of the 38 companies removed from
the official list during the year, 23 were
acquired by other companies listed on
Australian exchanges and seven were
mining companies.
In a year when official loan raisings
stole most of the thunder in the capital
market (they brought in £461.5 million
compared with £402.5 million the
previous year) and when companies
generally were dragging their ex-
pansionist feet, industrial fixed issues
were rather less buoyant.
Sales of Semi-Governments continued
to fall, being only 1.9 million units, but
turnover in debentures and unsecured
notes rose to £5.4 million and total
turnover of loan securities increased to
38.6 million units.
The report is not very precise on new
issues of equity capital, but points out
that the nominal capital in listed ordinary
shares increased by 9 p.c. to £1,240
million on the year. Despite this, the
market value was 1 p.c. lower at £3,212
million. The report says “The disparity
in these movements represents bonus
distributions by some companies and
lower price of some leading stocks.”
Without giving comparative details,
the report says that new issues by com-
panies already listed were lower at £127
million “reflecting the lower demand for
new funds during the year.”
However, Melbourne brokers under-
wrote 35 debentures and unsecured note
issues over the year, and in all £70.5
million was raised on this sort of paper
compared with £B3 million the previous
year, the drop being entirely attributable
to unsecured notes (down from £29
million in 56 issues to £10.5 million
in 19 issues).
Actually company debentures were up
from £54 to £6O million despite a
fall from £44.2 million (in 29 issues)
to £27.5 million (in 25 issues) in the
amount of debenture money sought by
finance companies.
Comforting news
1%/fR J. G. Donaldson, chairman of
Woodside (Lakes Entrance) had
some very comforting news for share-
holders at the night annual meeting in the
Melbourne Town Hall last week. It
attracted over 500 shareholders.
Mr Donaldson said that in the past
year, the company had spent £425,348 on
the search for oil, but through prudent
management it had recovered all but
£1223.
Total net expenditure for the year,
after all managerial, share register and
other costs, was £39,272.
Rent received from the hire of equip-
ment, profit on contract drilling, partners
share of exploration costs and Govern-
ment subsidies figure among the recover-
ables.
After 10 years of intense and scientific
oil search from the Gulf of Carpentaria
to Bass Strait, the company had assets
of more than £ 1 million to show for
total shareholders’ contributions of
£1,700,000. These assets made no
allowance for the company’s big leases
or for work carried out.
After seeing films of drilling activity
shareholders stayed on until nearly mid-
night plying the geologists with ques-
tions.
the world of business
"My goodness! I nearly forgot! It's time for Mr Shadbolt's indigestion
medicine!"


FINANCING CUSTOMERS’ ACCOUNTS FOR
ONE OF AUSTRALIA'S LARGEST CHAINS
OF DEPARTMENT STORES
• COX-ECONOMIC, PERTH
• SNOWS, SYDNEY
• FOYS, MELBOURNE
• FOY-BILSONS, COLAC
• FOYS (W.A.), PERTH
• WAUGHS, WOLLONGONG
BRIGHTS, GEELONG
MYERS, BENDIGO
BOWRINGS, MILDURA
PARTONS, DANDENONG
MORSHEADS, BALLARAT
GEORGES, MELBOURNE
Registered
First Mortgage
DEBENTURE STOCK
INTEREST
RATE UP TO
2
PER ANNUM
UNDERWRITTEN BY:
lan POTTER and COMPANY
MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE & CANBERRA
MEMBER OF THE STOCK EXCHANGE OF MELBOURNE
APPLICATIONS— may be lodged only on forms attached, to the printed copies of the prospectus, .which may be obtained from
• The Secretary, Cox Finance Corporation Limited, 75 Flinders Lane, Melb.
■ < '*
«> Any memcer ?» a Stock Lxcnange. L
• Any office of the Underwriters.
lAN POTTER & CO.
MELBOURNE-SYDNEY-BRISBANE
ADELAIDE-CANBERRA
CIPtO/M


AUSTRALIAN CHEMICAL HOLDINGS
LIMITED
26th October, 1962.
Chairman’s address, delivered by Mr. A. C. Hatrick
at the Annual General Meeting of the Company, held
at the registered office, 49-61 Stephen Road, Botany, on
Friday, 26th October, 1962, at Noon.
Ladies and Gentlemen:
The trading year, 1961-62, has been par-
ticularly difficult as you have no doubt
perceived from a perusal of the 1962
Annual Report. Group Net Profit, at
£211,388, was considerably down as com-
pared with the previous year after pro-
vision for a much higher figure for de-
preciation. Earning rate on average is-
sued capital during the year at 9.6%
showed a reduction, both as a consequence
of the lesser profit and also because of
capital increases during the year.
Specific reasons have already been covered
in the Directors’ Report issued with the
Audited Balance Sheet and Accounts and
I do not propose to discuss these further
in this address. However, I would like
to take this opportunity of referring to
each of the A.C.H. Group’s two distinct
fields of endeavour, industrial chemicals
and engineering.
In the chemical field we have had con-
tinued success and a very reasonable rate
of earnings for a period of years up to
the end of 1960. The calendar year, 1961,
was marked by a very competitive situa-
tion coupled with reduced profitability in
the industry. The effects of these reverses
lasted until February-March, 1962, and we
were compelled to accept a heavy charge
against profits in writing down certain
stocks to reflect the decline in world prices.
On the brighter side, I have to report
that turnover over the past five months
has increased markedly, and your Directors
are confident that if this trend continues
the current year’s results will be bene-
ficially affected by this upturn in the
industry and also by the release of a
number of new products now being per-
fected by the Research Department.
A wider range of chemical lines has
been introduced in New Zealand and the
level of production from our two New
Zealand factories has shown a very satis-
factory increase over the past year.
The light engineering field is one which
this organisation has entered only fairly
recently. Our engineering subsidiaries have
not prospered during the trading year just
ended, having experienced a definite re-
duction in turnover levels. It is pleasing
to note that this situation has been cor-
rected since May of this year and all
companies are now operating at a much
higher sales volume. During the adverse
period, our management has taken the
opportunity of effecting economies where
possible, and reviewing methods of operat-
ing with a view to a greater level of
efficiency in the future.
An examination of the Consolidated
Balance Sheet reveals that, primarily as a
result of further takeovers effected during
the past twelve months, the net assets
value has risen since last year to 19/lid.
per 10/- Stock Unit.
Rearrangement of external funds used
by the Company, finalised after 30th June,
1962, will result in long-term Unsecured
Notes (redeemable in cash between 1972
and 1977) to a total of £750,000, thus
allowing for lesser reliance on bank over-
draft borrowings.
Your Directors have recommended a
reduction in the final dividend rate, as
they feel that accumulated reserves should
be held for the purpose of company ex-
pansion in the future and the Group’s
liquidity should be preserved.
For the information of stockholders, I
am pleased to advise that group sales and
profits have shown a considerable increase
in the first three months of the current
financial year as compared with a similar
period of the previous year.
May I take this opportunity of intro-
ducing a personal note? Mr. E. S.
Wolfenden, having reached the grand old
age of 84, has accepted medical advice
to relinquish all business activities. Mr.
Wolfenden was Chairman of Directors of
this Company since its inception in 1954
until 1960 when he retired from the Board
and acted as Financial Consultant to the
Company. Your Directors take this oppor-
tunity of thanking him for the valuable
advice, both personal and financial, which
he has given us over the many years of
his association with the Company and wish
him all possible happiness and good health
in bis retirement.
With these few remarks I hereby move
the adoption of the Balance Sheet and
Accounts of the Company for the year
ended 30th June, 1962, together with
reports of the Directors and Auditors
thereon.
I now have pleasure in calling on the
Deputy Chairman, Mr. T. H. Martin, to
second the motion.
Optimistic outlook
THhe optimism of the smaller cigarette
manufacturers was very obvious at a
Press occasion for the signing of Roy
Emerson to the public relations staff of
Philip Morris last week in Melbourne.
After reporting a 46 p.c. rise in profit
and a step-up from 6 to 8 p.c. in the
dividend a couple of months ago, Philip
Morris’s chairman, Sir Norman Martin,
says in the annual accounts that sales had
increased by 11 p.c. in the three months
to September 30.
Things look to be going equally well
for Godfrey Phillips, too, though in this
case the company still has some way to
go before entering the dividend lists again.
Last payment on the ordinaries was 6
p.c. in 1955. But, after lifting its profit
by a third to £96,259 in the year to Dec-
ember 1961 to give earnings of 3.2 p.c.
and having gone on from there into still
higher profit regions this year, the outlook
is hopeful.
More steam ahead
T> evaluation of the property of Steam-
ships Trading Co. Ltd has now
been completed by an independent valuer,
W'ith the result that assets included in
the last balance sheet are worth £685,500
more.
These did not include any assets of
Colyer Watson (New Guinea) Ltd,
taken over as from July 1, 1962, in a
share deal worth close to £500,000 on
the market, plus an undisclosed sum of
cash.
The asset backing of the ss. shares,
including the revaluation, on 1961-62
accounts, would be 14s. Bd. Present price
of the shares is around 11s. 3d.
Copra is facing keen competition from
other oils and fats, so prices have been
disappointing, and the timber depart-
ment had an unexpected slump in 1961-
62. On the credit side, merchandising in-
creased 25 p.c., the freezing works and
cold stores had a record year, the
aerated water and cordial factory was
fully occupied, and the new rubber
plantations are expected to be profitable
acquisitions.
The slipway and engineering works
will lose government work, but the
company is expanding into the general
engineering field, and expects to be fully
occupied this year.
The growing purchasing power of the
natives and the physical expansion into
New Guinea through Colyer Watson are
bull points for Steamship shares. They
currently return 5.9 p.c. in income and
9.3 p.c. on earnings.
Aberfoyle’s dividend
Tn last week's story on the sensitivity
of metals in the crisis it was stated
that Aberfoyle Holdings’ dividend was
3d. a share. It is, of course, 9d.


mm 3
(fry&i
isj
NS
!s&Y|g»
«iiii"'iiill|
ifs£,
A happier choice for every occasion . . .
Ai?GOVGS wine
Fine wine adds pleasure to living . . . and you’ll
find no happier choice than Angove’s Wine of mature
perfection. Angove’s FINO DRY SHERRY, superbly
dry and appetising, is an excellent introduction to the
distinctive range of Angove’s TABLE WINES . . . each
the result of care and skill in wine making, combined
with the rich soil and sunshine of South Australia’s
glorious Murray Valley.
You will enjoy Angove’s Wine
APERITIF, TABLE AND DESSERT WINE OF HIGHEST
QUALITY: SHERRY, VERMOUTH, BURGUNDY, CLARET,
HOCK, RIESLING, SAUTERNES. PORT, MUSCAT,
and ST. AGNES BRANDY of course!
ANGOVE’S LTD., RENMARK, S.A.
WINE MAKERS & DISTILLERS
YOUR FAVOURITE BRANDY .. ST. AGNES BRANDY
£930,000 contract
A v Jennings Industries (Aust.) Ltd last
week signed a contract for the
building of the whole sub-structure of
Victoria’s Cultural Centre.
This second stage, following the site
preparation, will be completed within
18 months at a cost of about £930,000.
£40,000 loss on Games contract
Construction Co. Pty Ltd
blamed the WA State Housing
Commission’s instructions and methods
of supervision for its loss of about £l3OO
on each of 31 houses built in Perth for
the Commonwealth Games Village.
The company claimed it was forced
to employ day-laborers instead of sub-
contractors.
It has an estimated deficiency of over
£42,000 and may have to be liquidated.
Brave words on packaging
Qhares of Packaging and Printing In-
dustries Ltd still look rather top-
heavy at 11s. to yield 4.5 p.c. (6.1 -p.c.
earnings yield). The 1962 net result was
down from £43,225 to £30,120, equal to
13.2 p.c. on greater capital. Dividend
was trimmed from 11] to 10 p.c.
In spite of brave words from the
chairman that packaging was as much
a growth industry as ever because of
increasing uses and the wider variety of
materials available, his subsequent state-
ment that service to customers was more
than ever essential in a highly competi-
tive market should carry more weight
with shareholders.
Another anniversary bonus
Permanent Trustee Co of NSW Ltd
* followed the good example set last
year by Perpetual Trustee Co. Ltd by
paying shareholders a 75th anniversary
bonus out of profits, as yet unannounced,
for the year ended September 30.
The dividend rate of 12] p.c. follows
five years payment at 10 p.c. The £5
shares, paid up to 205., which last sold
at 445., were then quoted widely at 445.
buyer, 50s. 3d. seller.
High cost of day labor
fFHE chairman of McDonald Industries
A Ltd expressed disheartenment at the
number of relatively major construction
works still being completed by day
labor methods for public authorities. He
said in his annual address it was hard
to understand why they did not take
advantage of the improved methods of
organisation and construction available
from the Australian contracting industry.
Mr McDonald saw possibilities for
joint venture construction work in the
Middle East, during his tour with the
Australian Trade Mission. Such contracts
could lead to increased export of Aus-
tralian-made construction plant, he said.
The stabiliser group of subsidiary
companies was busier with its specialised
means of earth-road construction, in
Queensland, NSW and Victoria.
In a difficult year for civil engineers,
McDonald held position very well. Gross
profit was lower, but the net profit after
tax reduced for special reasons, was less
than 2 p.c. lower, and again gave more
than 100 p.c. cover for the usual 10 p.c.
dividend.
High hopes in beach sands
A T what was described as the biggest
attendance at any company meeting
in Adelaide for years, shareholders of
Beach Petroleum NL heard from their
chairman that, if preliminary exploration
results obtained at Geltwood Beach are
subsequently confirmed, their company
will have the most interesting and po-
tentially important structure :n the sedi-
mentary basin of the south-east of South
Australia.
This was the company’s first annual
meeting.
Our Wild Cat ratios
PTiHOSE speculators who so far have only
A succeeded in singeing their pocket
books with oil shares, may take encour-
agement by the news that wildcat drilling
results in Australia, so far, show a better
proportion of success than in America.
The Petroleum Information Bureau
(Australia) says that almost all the 570
wells drilled so far in Australia and its
Territories have been wildcats.
[Wildcats are wells drilled in areas
where oil has not previously been found.
For example, Moonie No. 1 was a wild-
cat, but succeeding holes in this area
could not be so described.]
Of the 6909 wildcat wells drilled in
the US during 1961, only 745 produced
some show of oil or gas.
This “success” ratio of 10.8 p.c. com-
pares with the 20 wildcat wells drilled
in Australia during that year, of which
three —or 15 p.c. of the total, Cabawin
No. 1, Moonie No. 1. and Glentulloch
No. I—produced considerable showings
of oil or gas.
Surprises in store
incidence of economic restrictive
measures midway through the
financial year 1960-61 generally meant
that companies have had two years of
mixed fortunes.
The first half of 1960-61 was a boom
period, followed by slump. The slump
prevailed into the first half of 1961-62
with some recovery in the second half.
Those companies which rule off their
books in December were therefore apt
to have a very bad showing in 1961, but
could be expected to show a strong
improvement this year.
This brings attention to G. N. Ray-
mond Ltd, whose 1961 profit fell 35 p.c.,
Moulded Products (A’sia) Ltd (down 59
p.c.), John Lysaght (Australia) Ltd (down
49 p.c.), Taubmans Industries Ltd (down
17 p.c.) and Email Ltd (down 19 p.c.).
Two motor stocks, York Motors
(Holding) Ltd (year ending November
30) and Preston Motors (Holdings) Ltd
(balancing in December) should also pro-
vide pleasant surprises.


COMPANY ANALYSIS
COMPARISON FAVORS DUCON
By “SECURITY”
T AST week, International Resistance
Holdings Ltd was reviewed following
the recent new rights issue. It seems that
a comparison with Ducon Industries Ltd
is appropriate in view of the similarity
of the two companies.
Ducon Condensor Pty Ltd was incor-
porated in 1932 in Victoria, became a
public company in 1946 and the present
company was formed in 1959 to acquire
the shares in Ducon Condensor. Interna-
tional Resistance Company (A’sia) Pty
Ltd was incorporated in 1934, became a
public company in 1949 and the present
company was formed in 1950. Both
companies have associations with over-
seas companies, although Ducon’s asso-
ciates seem to cover a wider geogra-
phical field than International’s.
To the layman, the range of products
of the two companies seems very similar
as both produce capacitors, resistors,
potentiometers, transformers and
switches. Unfortunately, this is not a
good indication because the type, size
and usage of these electronic compo-
nents can vary quite considerably. How-
ever, both companies seem to have been
heavily involved in the TV boom, al-
though recently Ducon in its annual
reports has given considerable publicity
to its activities in the area of high volt-
age transmission.
This field of electricity generation and
distribution seems to be a growth situa-
tion because the “quantity” of electricity
generated has increased without fail
from year to year, despite variations in
the economic tempo. In the numerous
different products required for the gener-
ation and distribution of electric power,
there must naturally be a fairly high
import content as the local market is not
large enough to warrant the manufacture
in this country of the large transformers,
etc. Competition from imports is there-
fore likely to be fairly keen.
As has already been pointed out in
the case of Internationa] Resistance,
growth in the durable consumer field
can hardly be expected to continue into
the next decade. If anything, the market
for the next few years looks as though
it could be limited.
Certain expansion can be expected in
industrial control equipment, communic-
ation equipment and perhaps in electro-
nic data processing. Generally, however,
one has the impression that these two
companies will be hard put to maintain
their past growth rates over the next
few years.
Looking at past history, the -investor
who bought £l2OO (net of brokerage,
etc.) of Ducon shares in August 1951 has
certainly had a much better run than the
one who invested a similar amount in
International. Even at the current prices
of 14/6 for International and 12/9 for
Ducon, this 1951 investment would have
increased in value without making any
further investment to £2682 10s. Od. in
the case of International but to £3,627
7s. 6d. in the case of Ducon.
Market values can be distorted at
various points of time, so perhaps less
distortion would occur if the growth in
dividend income was examined. From
the initial investment, dividend income
would have progressed approximately as
follows:
Year to Ducon International
30th June £ £
1952 64.0 53.7
1953 64.0 16.1
1954 64.0 53.7
1955 70.4 53.7
1956 79.0 58.7
1957 79.0 73.4
1958 87.6 73.4
1959 96.3 92.0
1960 144.5 104.2
1961 144.5 104.2
1962 144.5 104.2
These figures leave little doubt that
over the last 11 years Ducon has been
a superior investment.
The profitability ratios (estimated
operating income as a percentage of net
working capital plus fixed assets and in-
tangibles) have been fairly similar over
the last six years:
Year to June 30th 1957 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Ducon 26 8 43.2 39.9 40.9 13.7 18.7
International 27 0 32.9 35.8 34.7 17.4 14.2
The main difference is that in 1961/
62 Ducon has shown a recovery while
International’s decline has continued.
The trends in earnings per share
taking the 1956/7 year as a base show
the following trends:
Year to June 30th 1957 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Ducon 100 153 145 178 65 103
International 100 170 154 140 94 84
(Adjustments have been made for bonus issues only)
The market’s appraisal of the two
stocks seems to be somewhat erratic
when measured by the last sale in the
month the accounts are presented:
Year to June 30th 1957 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Dividend Yield p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c.
Ducon 4.6 3.3 2.7 2.9 3.6 3.8
International 6.6 3.9 3.1 3.2 3.6 4.4
Earnings Yield
Ducon 11.2 12.3 6.3 8.2 3.9 6.4
International 11.4 11.5 8.2 7.7 5.8 4.6
As with most ordinary shares on Aus-
tralian stock exchanges, it would seem
that immediate dividend yield has had a
greater bearing on price than the earn-
ings yield. Therefore, while it is difficult
to be dogmatic, it seems that a p.c.
immediate yield is expected (on average)
with a fairly substantial cover for the
dividend, probably at lease twice. The
records of both companies from 1960 to
1961 would seem to indicate that such
caution is necessary.
Ignoring the earnings yield apart from
saying that it has been somewhat erratic,
it seems that the market could well be
satisfied with a p.c. immediate divi-
dend yield. If we look at past perfor-
mance and assume that this will be re-
peated for the next ten years but after
that time future dividend growth will
continue at the rate of 3 p.c. per annum
compound only, this yield would effecti-
vely become 9.0 p.c. in the case of
Ducon and 8.7 p.c. in the case of Intern-
ational, assuming that both companies
will maintain the same dividend rate
during 1962/63.
However, the various factors which
have already been discussed -suggest that
growth rates could be reduced in the
future. Last week it was suggested that
a price of 14/6 to show a 4.3 p.c. imme-
diate yield fully priced International. It
is now suggested that in view of the
trends which the two companies have
exhibited in the past, Ducon could well
be expected to continue to show some-
what better results in the long run than
International. It is therefore suggested
that a 4 p.c. yield could currently be
accepted for Ducon, i.e. 12/6 seems a
fair price for the shares.
However, because of performance
during the last financial year, one would
tend to favour Ducon at 12/6 in prefe-
rence to International at 14/6.
Myer empire’s 29 “generals”
HThe Myer empire must have one of the
most impressive arrays of directors
of all Australian companies. There are
14 directors and 15 associate directors.
One interesting point to emerge from
the chairman’s report is that the tre-
mendous improvement in quality and
variety of merchandise produced in Aus-
tralia has reduced the necessity for
retailers to carry such large stocks.
Locally made goods can be replaced
almost daily, whereas previously delivery
from overseas could be delayed for
months. Directors did not state how
much of turnover was locally made.


On time...
every time
L
m 1
Q
XT' 1 ««* -•• .
.», “'
~, ' :
£
3JB I ; \ . s |pst.
*' U«2i
> :WsMK£* -
With a highly trained staff, pantechnicions and equipment
especially designed for fast safe transportation, Mayne Nickless
operate Australia's most reliable interstate freightways. To
facilitate the fast handling of all goods, Mayne Nickless main-
tain a large fleet of Radio Pick-up trucks.
MAYNE NICKLESS LTD.
INCORPORATING ANTILL RANGER
Australia's most reliable Interstate Freightways
SYDNEY-MELBOURNE-BRISBANE-PERTH
ADELAIDE • CANBERRA • NEWCASTLE
PORT KEMBLA • LAUNCESTON • HOBART
Fast daily schedules
to all main centres.
for every transport need
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
It was a quieter week all round. There
was no doubt that the Cuban crisis
was over in the Sydney's “Sun's” mind
when it reverted to such breathtaking
front page headlines as, “Another Baby
for Anne Baxter”. The annual meeting
front wasn't much newsier. Even
Chevron Sydney’s meeting was note-
worthy only for the lone woman who
bravely held her hand - or was it her
fist? high in the air to vote against
the re-election of Mr Stanley Korman
as a director.
This mood of relative somnolence at
least gave me the opportunity to con-
centrate on the market, something I’ve
been rather neglecting lately while
making forays into one kind of contro-
versy or another. At the behest of a
number of brokers who have become
obsessed with earnings yields and the
riches lying dormant in some of the
newly listed stocks, I took a close look
at Aeron, Avala and Functional Hold-
ings. What I saw, I liked.
Aeron is a firm of air conditioning
and ventilation engineers. Its capital was
only £BO,OOO prior to listing in April
when a further £70,000 was raised.
Profit of £34,000 for 1961-62 was
equal to 22 p.c. on the full capital. If
the £70,000 raised in April can be
utilised as profitably as the original
£BO,OOO, then earnings should be very
much higher in 1962-63. However, at
12s. the share price did not look
excessive even if profits were to show
little increase. So I bought 400.
I also bought 400 shares in Avala
Holdings whose subsidiaries are busy
making nameplates, badges and trims for
television sets and other appliances.
Capital was even smaller than Aeron’s
before listing, £35,000, but was boosted
to £lOO,OOO by the public issue. Profit
in 1961-62 was just on £16,000 but,
with the addition of £65,000 in capital,
sales so far this financial year are up
50 p.c. All of which makes the outlook
tor this year very healthy.
Functional Holdings is yet another
company with a fetchingly small capital
of £104,000. Directors divide their
time somewhat improbably between
operating a furniture business, running
drive-in restaurants, dabbling in a little
land development at Terrigal plus a bit
of mortgage financing on the Gold-
Coast. A colourful range of activities,
but successful. Profit for the nine
months before flotation was at the rate
of 41 p.c. per annum and directors have
just reported that trading for the latest
six months was above expectations. In
fact an interim dividend at the rate of
124 p.c. per annum is being paid com-
pared with the forecast rate of 10 p.c.
On the basis of a 40 p.c. earning rate,
the earnings yield at 7s. 7d. works out
at not much less than 30 p.c. This seems
to be taking scepticism to extremes.
These three purchases made it
imperative to sell something.
I managed to put off parting with my
Auto, arid General Finance shares even
though the price reached 275. I also
went close to selling my Shipping News-
papers but, being a nautical type, I
decided to hold these until after the new
issue. (While out on the harbour on
Saturday I saw the old Wanganella steam
by under its new flag. I just hoped that
the passengers were not in for a diet
consisting entirely of dim sims).
Then there was Goodwins. I still have
hopes that this little company will live
down its adverse publicity. This brought
me to James Hardie which has been
tying up £5OO of my funds since June.
Parting with James Hardie was rather
like giving up one’s true love but I made
the break. James Hardie, unfortunately,
is for the more patient investor. That
sale, plus the £197 left over from the
previous week, gave me £686 which
all but covered by debts.
I’d also made £4l earlier in the week
on my Sonnerdale option which I
exercised immediately after the an-
nouncement of the link with the British
gear-box firm. This development proved
to be less than what had been generally
hoped for so I sold out at 9s. 6d.
immediately I’d exercised my option. As
I took the option at 7s. 6d. with a
premium of 9d., my purchase price was
8s. 3d. plus the usual brokerage. All in
all I made £41.
BOUGHT
£000 Sonnerdale at 8/3 £424
400 Aeron at 12/- £246
400 Avala at 9/9 £200
800 Functional at 7/7 £312
SOLD
£000 Sonnerdale at 9/6 £465
100 James Hardie at 99/- £489
These changes meant 1 finished the
week owing £31. But my portfolio
recovered the £100 lost the previous
week and is now worth about £7,800.
This week I’m hopeful of a further rise
in Marcus Clark notes which were look-
ing very low at 37s. 6d. in relation to
the 10s. shares at 23s. 3d. Put on a 5s.
basis the shares would be 11s. and the
notes 9s. yet the income difference is
not much more than 3d.
Details of my portfolio now are: —
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
400 Auto and General
Finance 8/2/62 19/9 27/-
800 Goodwins 21/3/62 5/9 6/3
400 Malleys 3/5/62 20/9 22/—
2,000 Hcnimex 23/5/62 5/11 8/—
300 National Consol. 30/5/62 26/1 26/-
300 Marcus Clark notes 22/6/62 27/6 37/—
100 CSR 1/8/61 49/- 52/9
400 AWA 10/8/62 20/- 19/9
500 R. W. Miller 21/8/62 17/3 18/9
1,000 Peter Lloyd 24/8/62 5/9 5/10
100 AOG 27/8/62 55/6 56/3
1,000 AN I 14/9/62 4/- 4/5
400 Western Mining 19/9/62 15/9 18/9
200 Shipping News 20/9/62 24/— 23/6
1,000 Vesta 27/9/62 3/9 3/6
500 Kauri 11/10/62 6/6 7/-
400 Wancol 11/10/62 12/8 12/8
500 Ferris 15/10/62 3/3 4/-
400 Nightingale 17/10/62 14/11 16/9
1,000 Rosslyn 26/10/62 3/6 4/2
400 Avala 31/10/62 9/9 10/-
400 Aeron 1/11/62 12/- 12/-
400 Functional 2/11/62 7/7 7/7
Promising float
TTbvvoRED by a better broking climate,
the 5s. shares of Blakistons Ltd,
Geelong transporter, floated at par, made
an impressive debut on Melbourne
’Change last week, commanding 7s. 6d.
in opening sales and going above 8s. later.
The issue of 200,000 shares was under-
written by Walter P. Ham. The prospec-
tus indicated earnings of 17.24 p.c. in
1961-62 and saw dividends at the annual
rate of 10 p.c.


m.
Nj
/
v
CAN YOU WORK UNDER PRESSURE ...
THINK CLEARL Y. .. MAKE VITAL DECISIONS,..
at 46% of your working efficiency?
Business doesn't wait for the weather. But recent American research laboratory studies
proved that your working efficiency drops 33% in 90° heat, and a disturbing 54% in
95° heat. Can you afford to work at 46% of your normal efficiency—sometimes for days
on end?
Air Conditioning is the Proved and Economical Answer, in summer air
conditioning maintains the correct temperature for maximum working efficiency—and this
need not mean installing a full central air conditioning plant. Westinghouse Room Air
Conditioners are particularly suitable for management and executive offices,
combining as the> do high performance
with low purchase price and operating
cost. And in winter, they provide warm
fresh air—the healthiest heat of all—at
half the operating cost of other electrical
heating appliances. There are three
models, from 8,300 to 20,000 B.T.U.’s
including the Mobilaires which can be
installed permanently in one
place, or wheeled
from office to office
as needed.
Price from
215 Gns.
Enjoy
Westinghouse
refrigerated room
air conditioning in
your home, too!
11)111 lISI
I IN
Will
II II! II
l!ll
I
ran
mu m
HUH ill
min in
!i!iii i 1
mil!
mm
! i
Hi
M
fm ih
6;
you CAN BS suns. .lF ITS
Wfestinghouse
ROOM AIR CONDITIONERS
Mail the coupon today for full details
s -
I To: Department R.A.C., Email Limited, Consumer I
[ Products Division, I
I Box 4, Waterloo, N.S.W.
I Please send me literature and full particulars on .
J Westinghouse Room Air Conditioners.
| NAME I
j ADDRESS I
i j
| PHONE No I
j PLACE X IN SQUARE IF SCHOOL PROJECT [j J
WACI3HP
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
OSTI'S GAINS FROM OTHERS' LOSSES
TPhe acquisition of companies with
A large losses for the benefits these
losses provide as tax remissions was used
extensively by a large number of listed
companies during 1961-62. One of the
most successful with this operation was
Osti Holdings Ltd, which was able to
avoid a tax liability of about £50,000 —
and still have enough up its sleeve for
two more years.
Osti was formed in 1959 to acquire
all the issued capital of Osti Knitting
Industries Pty Ltd, a company with a
20-year history in the making and dis-
tributing of the Osti brand of lingerie.
As well as a large local market, the
company’s products are made under
licence in New Zealand where turnover
exceeds £1 million annually. In Aus-
tralia, the company markets between four
and five million garments a year as
well as conducting a highly profitable and
busy dyeing and finishing business.
At the time of flotation as a public
company, the group operated through
three subsidiaries, Astoria Knitting Mills
Pty, Party Frocks Pty and Osti Produc-
tions Pty. It also held a 50 p.c. interest
in Newtown Dyers and Bleachers Pty.
but this became a wholly owned sub-
sidiary following acquisition of the
Emstra group in 1960.
This acquisition, made by an issue
of 400,000 shares, lifted paid-up ordinary
capital to £400,000. In addition, the
MLC Assurance held £50,000 in pre-
ference shares in the subsidiary Osti
Knitting Industries Pty.
The MLC increased its interest in the
company when it took up £32,500 in
ordinary shares to finance the acquisition
of the loss company—Jones Bros Pty
Ltd. This gave Osti tax reductions of
about £150,000 of which about
£50,000 was used during the year. The
remainder will be used over the next two
years.
Another private issue was made dur-
ing the year—27o,ooo ss. shares at 10s.
• —this time to several leading institutions
to finance further diversification and
growth. The premium on both these
issues added £84,000 to the share pre-
mium reserve, lifting it to £168,972.
Although the latter issue ranked for
the full half year’s final dividend of 8f
p.c., the funds raised will not become
income earning until towards the end of
the current financial year. Proceeds
were used to purchase more modern
machinery which will not be in opera-
tion until early 1963.
These two issues lifted paid-up capital
at June 30 to £500,000. To compen-
sate shareholders for being by-passed on
these occasions, the company is making
a one-for-10 bonus (involving £50,000)
from the share premium reserve.
No indication is given of dividend
policy after the bonus, but continuity of
the 15 p.c. paid each year since forma-
tion is almost certain—although unless
there is a strong improvement in this
year’s results, it will be by virtue of the
tax losses in Jones Bros Pty.
Net profit for the year to June 30 last
was £118,656 (no tax necessary) after
providing £3389 more for depreciation
at £48,109. However, the previous
year's profit of £67,050 was after pro-
viding £51,300 for taxation. Gross
trading profit before depreciation and
tax was fractionally higher at £170,765
(£167,070 in 1960-61). Earning rate


HELP
LEGACY
all the year round.
Donations: 169 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney. BM 2001. °
:
i,
<8 : • J
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on Bth March, 1950.
JL Qj
PER ANNUM
3 YEARS
The main business of
Cambridge Credit
Corporation Limited
is to make loans on
the security of first
mortgages on prop-
erty and the ac-
ceptance of selected
hire purchase agree-
ments.
REGISTERED
REPEEMABLE
UNSECURED ,
DEPOSIT NOTES
FUNDS MAY BE WITHDRAWN IN A PERSONAL EMERGENCY
APPLICATIONS MUST BE MADE ON THE FORM ATTACHED
TO THE PROSPECTUS. WHICH IS NOW AVAILABLE FROM:
The Company's Registered Offices
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Fir., Empire House, Corner Wharf and Que in Streets.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street,
PERTH: 81 St. George's Terrace.
CANBERRA: Ist Floor, Northbourne Chambers, Northbourne Ave., City.
NEWCASTLE WEST: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter Street.
WAGGA: 147 Bayliss Street.
Any Member of the Stock Exchange
or from any of the following Brokers to The Issue:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
TRUSTEES FOR THE NOTEHOLDERS:
Bankers & Traders Insurance Company Limited CCM6/AB
Clip and Post Coupon
. TB 10/11
Cambridge Credit Corporation Limited,
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me without obligation a copy of the prospectus with application forms.
NAME
ADDRESS
on average capital employed was up
from 16.8 p.c. to 25.5 p.c.
But assuming that the company was
liable for its full tax on the disclosed
aross profit, the after-tax figure would
be about £.69,000 —giving only a small
cover to the £65,906 dividend require-
ment, not allowing for the shares issued
to acquire Jones Bros. In a full year
this would require £70,125.
Be that as it may, the tax losses put
beyond doubt the ability of the company
to meet a full year’s 15 p.c. dividend on
issued capital of £550,000 —a total of
£82,500, even if earnings were to fall
sharply in the current year.
But the reverse appears to be the case.
The company began 1962-63 on a con-
fident note. . October was a record
month, with the dyeing subsidiary show-
ing a4O p.c. increase in turnover. When
the new plants come into operation early
next year, turnover should get another
boost
The 1962 accounts showed the com-
pany to be in a sound position. Stocks
and debtors were up slightly, reflecting
the highly competitive business condi-
tions, but creditors were lower, with bank
advances unchanged.
The issued capital of £550,000 was
backed by reserves of £248,442, includ-
ing capital reserves of £170,634, giv-
ing the ss. ordinary shares a net assets
backing (subject to intangibles, of
£84,259) of 6s. Bd.
The shares are currently selling at
11s. to show a dividend yield of 6.8 p.c.
and an earnings yield of 1 1.6 p.c. They
are well worth picking up around these
prices.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARIES £'ooo
1960 1961 1962
Current assets 608 735 806
Less current liabilities 432 521 439
Working capital 176 214 367
Investments 33 22 24
Fixed assets 316 552 54/
Intangibles 2 35 84
total Capital 527 823 1,022
Represented by:
Loans 105 )
Mortgages 26 20 r 221
Notes 100 100 )
Outside shareholders 52 52 52
Ordinary capital 300 400 500
Reserves 49 146 249
» 527 823 1,022
depreciation 23 45 46
"W 51 51 Nil
Outside shareholders 4 4 4
"°f't 65 67 119
Dividends 45 51 70
Surplus 20 16 49
Laming rate, p.c. 21.8 16.8 25.5
"l-V P-c. 15 15 15
Dividend yield (a) 6.2 8.1 6.8
i 9n Price (b) 13/6 11/- 13/-
Low price (b) 9/6 8/- 9/6
jpj tnd of Oct. month accounts presented,
la) Previous calendar year.
A. V. JENNINGS INDUSTRIES
SCOPE FOR GROWTH AFTER STORMS
7O p.c. of the three-for-five issue
of ss. shares at 2s. 6d. premium
was left in the hands of the underwriter
in December, 1960, the outlook appear-
ed discouragingly grey for shareholders
of A. V. Jennings Industries (Australia)
Ltd. But the company was admittedly
unlucky in its timing. It had announced
the issue 18 days before Mr Holt made
his historic pronouncements.
Conditions in the last seven months
of 1960-61 were such as to deflate the
profit to about one-third of that earned
in the two preceding years.
The latest year to June gives striking
testimony to management's policy of


For my money
it's 0...
NATIONAL BANK
SAVINGS BANK
ACCOUNT
O INTEREST
EARN
UP TO £3OOO
Open a National Bank Savings
Bank account today . . . and
make every pay day a put away
day.
THE NATIONAL BANK
SAVINGS BANK LTD.
A WHOLLY OVYNED SUBSIDIARY OF
THE NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
9684/1/62
LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Sixth Floor
56 Hunter Street, Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Telephone: BW 5721
Telegrams and Cables:
"LAGRAM," Sydney.
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines)
150 Queen St., Melbourne
67-5937 (7 lines)
43 Northbourne Ave.
City, Canberra, A.C.T.
4 0365-66
Flinders House, Crown St., Wollongonit
B 5900
Telegrams and Cables:
“Rosdale,” Sydney, Melbourne
or Wollongong.
A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761
(4 lines)
P.O. BOX
No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
2 Denham Street. Phone: 60H9.
WANTED TO BUY
FOR CASH
Shares, listed or unlisted,
Forestry Bonds, etc.
J. W. GRANT & CO.
549 St. Kilda Road
Melbourne
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Telephones: 51-6243, 51-6245
Est. 1939
M
dll the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM 2001.
vigorous endeavor. The business is now
operating on a much broader base than
when it ran into trouble in 1953 when
government housing contracts were sus-
pended.
The year under review was a severe
trial of strength for the A. V. Jennings
organisation. The severe drop in house
construction was counteracted by extra
effort in securing industrial and com-
mercial building contracts against keen
competition. Accurate estimating, effici-
ent construction and completion within
scheduled times allowed each contract to
be profitable.
Turnover increased to £9,328,733 but
fell short of the 1960 figure. Profit was
a record £195,611, and represented an
earning rate of 17.6 p.c. on higher aver-
age capital. The pre-tax profit advanced
over the year by £183,000.
The company is a major contractor
for school buildings, and won contracts
worth £3.1 million during the year. It
can provide finance for commercial,
educationa 1 and church buildings for
which it contracts in all States but NSW
and Qld. An office has been opened in
NSW, and Jennings plans to begin opera-
tions in Queensland by the end of 1963.
Private housing development projects
allow the company to benefit from large-
scale production without depending en-
tirely on government contracts. The
biggest project on hand is the £l7 mil-
lion development at East Frankston
(Vic.) for 3000 houses to be built over
the next five years. Private housing
activities will this year be extended to
SA and WA.
Like Lend Lease Corporation Ltd,
Jennings sponsors its own housing plans,
and has subsidiaries providing the group
and outside customers with building
materials from factories in Springvale
and Dandenong, Vic.
Jennings Estates and Finance Ltd was
formed in 1960 in association with Aus-
tralian United Corporation Ltd and
Email Ltd to promote “Jennings Com-
plete Hom° Plan.”
Three months after last balance date
Jennings had £B.l million of work
under construction, and results were
ahead of the same period of the previ-
ous year. Development projects for £3
million have been planned for 1962-63.
The present price of around Bs. 4d.
to yield 6 p.c. amply demonstrates the
recovery in status from the doubtful
days of December, 1960. An absent-
minded seller may allow more favor-
able entry if a prospective buyer places
his order with limits. The stock will
always oscillate according to the state of
the economic cycle. It is, therefore, not
suitable for investors who wish to forget
about their holdings, but from time to
time it does offer quick capital gains for
the more energetic.
Until all divisions of the group are
extended to all States of the Common-
wealth, Jennings has out-of-the-ordinary
scope for growth. Current price should
not be the ceiling.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY £'ooo
June 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
current assets 1854 2045 2540 2096 2285
less current liabilities 1035 1001 2106 1579 1749
Working capital 819 1044 434 517 536
Deferred assets - 58 113 702 1270 1222
Fixed assets 537 508 555 728 684
Intangible assets 20 17
Total capital 1414 1665 1691 2535 2459
Represented by:
Loan capital 344 502 431 662 517
Minority interests 20 4 4 7 10
Preference capital 177 177 177 177 -177
Ordinary capital 630 630 630 1061 1061
Reserves 243 352 449 628 694
1414 1665 1691 2535 2459
Turnover 6694 6765 9437 9015 9329
Depreciation 61 62 57 71 59
Taxation 80 104 129 47 101
Net profit 160 181 182 67 196
Net pront for ords 151 172 173 58 187
Dividends 57 63 76 88 106
Surplus 94 109 97 -30 81
Earning rate 24.0 27.3 27.4 6 6 17 6
Dividend rate 9 10 12 10 10
Dividend yield (a) 10.3 4.7 6.3 7 3
High price (b) 12/- 11/- 25/- 8/3 8/4
Low price (b) 7/10 7/6 8/3 7/3 6/5
(a) End of October, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.


\a\
i i i
ALLIED INTERNATIONAL
(AUST.) LIMITED
issue of 4,000,000
ordinary shares of
each at par
The general nature of the
proposed main business is
1. To produce in Australia films
of accepted international
standard for world wide cinema
and television distribution.
DIRECTORS
COUNCILLOR KENNETH ALFRED EVANS, LL.B., F.T.1.A.,
157 Bluff Road, Black Rock, Victoria,
Solicitor, Chairman.
HORACE ANDREW DARGIE,
66 Clarendon Street, East Melbourne, Victoria,
International Entertainer.
GERALD GEORGE PATRICK, A.C.1.5., A.A.S.A., A.R.M.T.C.,
11 Grosvenor Street, Brighton, Victoria,
Chartered Secretary and Accountant.
ALBERT LYAL RICHARDSON,
3 Kellett Street, King’s Cross, New South Wales,
Independent Producer.
JOHN LEPINE TILBROOK,
7 Maureen Court, Oakwood Park, North Dandenong, Victoria.
Independent Television Director.
ROBERT A. GIBSON,
10 Wilde Street, Potts Point, New South Wales,
Musical Director.
Applications can only be accepted on the printed
form attached to the Prospectus* For copy of the
Prospectus write to Allied International (Aust.)
Limited, 5 Palmer Street,. Joliimont, Victoria or
297 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ALLIED INTERNATIONAL (AUST.) LIMITED
297 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY. Phone 61-2324
Please send me without obligation copy of your prospectus.
Name
Address State.
A 12154-30
ONE TO BUY
MORE TO COME
FROM
ALLIED MILLS?
Although The Bulletin had no pre-
** science of the improvement in earn-
ing rate and dividend increase announced
last week by Allied Mills Ltd, and the
market has since given more credit to
the shares, they still look a valuable
acquisition at the current price of
around 15s. 6d. (Top price, earlier this
year, was 18s. 6d.)
Shareholders were given the oppor-
tunity to double their holdings in 1960,
when the company made four par-issues
in the ratio of one-for-four. And prob-
ably the period of capital and income
benefits is not over.
The holding company was formed 12
years ago to take over a group of flour
millers and exporters, with a by-product
business in stock feeds. In very recent
years the export markets for flour have
diminished by the establishment of local
mills in South-East Asia.
The final ordinary capital of Allied
Mills at balance date, August 31, 1962,
was a compact £2,003,268, compared
with £1,352,656 the year before.
The group profit, incorporating 11
months’ figures for John Darling, was .
approximately £420,000 according to
preliminary reports, after tax of
£414,000 and £445,000 provision for
depreciation. The 1961 profit of Allied
Mills was £261,000, and that of John
Darling £95,000.
On the greatly enlarged capital, Allied
Mills was able to improve earning rate
from 18.5 to 20.5 p.c., although some
bakeries operated at a loss, and two
companies incurred losses of a develop-
ment nature.
One of the conditions of the Darling
takeover was that the two UK interests
therein, the Darling family and Spillers,
would each reduce their shareholdings
to 10 p.c. of Allied Mills capital. This is
being done without any perceptible sel-
ling pressure on the local market, so
presumably the shares are being placed
privately.
The step-up in dividend from 10 to
•3 p.c. after four years at the old rate,
and an unimpressive 6 p.c. in 1957, is a
measure of the directors’ confidence in
the group as now constituted.
There is no need, therefore, for in-
vestors to be diffident. The present
income return of 3.9 p.c. and earnings
yield of 6.6 p.c. should still have plenty
°f stretch. And the 1962 balance sheet
and chairman's address should make in-
teresting reading on the consolidations
°f the Darling group, and the direction
of the group’s efforts.


Newspaper
Head Librarian
With the re-establishment of our newsoaper Library
we are seeking the services of a male graduate. 30 to
50 years of age, as Head Librarian.
Applicants should have appropriate University degree,
Library qualifications and experience, knowledge of
newspaper library work will be an advantage.
Ability to plan and administer staff and modern se
library methods essential.
Salary will be by negotiation. In the vicinity of £2,0 r 'o
a year is visualised. Superannuation will be available
after qualifying period.
Apply by letter before November 12th, 1962. setting
out full qualifications to the Personnel Officer,
AUSTRALIAN CONSOLIDATED
PRESS LIMITED,
3rd FLOOR, ADAMS CHAMBERS,
195 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
IN DEFENCE OF CHEQUE CHARGES
BY A BANKER
Australia’s bankers could never
be held to be reckless fellows.
Yet the criticism that followed
their decision to abolish inland
exchange and replace it with a
more equitable cheque-charge sys-
tem in certain areas was aimed
at the intelligence of the decision.
The Bulletin asked a leading
bariker to put the banks’ case in
defence of their action.
nP‘HE new system of charges on current
■*" accounts introduced by all trading
banks in Australia on October 1 has had
a mixed reception from the public
generally and from various trade organ-
isations.
Many have agreed that the basis of
the new system is far sounder than that
of the old system, particularly as the
outmoded inland exchange charge has
been discontinued. Some trade organisa-
tions, however, claim that the charges
bear too heavily on their members.
The banks firmly believe that the new
system spreads the costs more equitably
and relates charges more closely to the
costs of servicing accounts. The charges
are much fairer and more realistic over
the whole range of bank customers th an
would be the case if any of the various
and widely divergent suggestions put to
the banks by some of the trade groups
were to have been implemented.
The most popular suggestion from
critics of the new system has been that
the banks should have introduced a
single cheque issuance charge, made at
the time when customers purchase new
cheque books. This would have been
administratively very simple and was
enticingly attractive to the banks.
But the banks rejected it for two main
reasons. Firstly, it would have involved
charging customers before the banks had
performed any service for them. Sec-
ondly, it would be grossly unfair to ex-
pect drawers of cheques solely to bear
cheque charges—and the charges would
have had to be heavier than the present
ledger activity scale in order that
payees might be free from any obliga-
tion to carry a share of the costs in-
volved in voucher processing.
Different categories of bank customers
pay in and draw out cheques in different
degrees and it cannot, the banks be-
lieve, be validly claimed that the charges
should not be spread over both types of
activity.
The new quarterly composite charge,
made up of a basic maintenance fee, a
ledger activity fee and a collection fee
on more than 20 cheques deposited, was
not designed to recover more than a
portion of the costs to the banks of pro-
viding cheque facilities. In practice, the
banks are still carrying a substantial part
of the expenses of voucher processing.
In deciding details of the new sys-
tem, the banks appreciated that the
principle of relating fees to the actual
work involved for the banks was a good
one. The banks had to look at the Aus-
tralian economy in wide perspective . . .
to take consideration of the position of
customers in all walks of life from the
remotest outback to the metropolitan
industrial areas.
The banks had, for a long time, recog-
nised that inland exchange, which was
paid on 25 per cent, of all cheques, was
anomalous. Those who paid inland ex-
change in fact were subsidising those who
did not. Over the past few years this
imbalance has been greatly intensified
because of post-war developments, par-
ticularly in the rapid growth of both
population and cheque using habits in
urban as against rural areas.
The banks did what they could to meet
the situation by means of staff training,
mechanisation and introduction of new
systems, but the point was reached where
charges according to traffic through
accounts seemed the only correct basis
upon which to work.
It is freely acknowledged by the
banks that some customers will pay more
for their cheque services than they have
in the past. Those who have been affect-
ed in this way have been getting an
efficient service in the past at a nominal
cost. It is also true that hundreds of
thousands of customers will benefit and
will pay less or the same as before.
The new scale of charges gives special
consideration to the “little man” who
maintains credit balances. This principle
can hardly be disputed, because it is these
deposits that provide much of the
credit funds to enable the banks to lend
on overdraft to business. It is estimated
there are over million customers of
the trading banks in Australia. The
average current account credit balance
is over £4OO.
Nearly 80 p.c. of customers use
less than one ledger folio (40 entries)
per quarter and will benefit from the
low per-folio rate at the base of the
activity fee scale. A large number of
customers will be exempt from any led-
ger activity charge at all, because they
keep credit balances of more than £3OO
and thus will be entitled to rebates.
The complete exemption from col-
lection fees when fewer than 21 cheques
are deposited a quarter is also a real con-
cession. It is estimated that 80 p.c. of
customers will not pay any collection
fees at all.
Many systems of charging by banks
overseas were examined before the scale
was announced. Although the adopted
system is more in line with overseas
trends, customers of Australian banks
are still getting their cheque account
services at below cost and at a rate
amongst the lowest in the world.


DULY AND HANSFORD LIMITED
Manufacturers of Dufor Products
The Chairman of Duly & Hansford Ltd., Mr. A. Duly, will give the following address
at the annual meeting of the Company to be held on November 27, at the Company’s
premises at Carrington Road, Marrickville, N.S.W.
CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS
Ladies and Gentlemen,
In my address to Shareholders last
year, I had to report a very difficult
year of trading, but at the same time
expressed confidence in the future of
the Automotive Industry.
In the interim report that was issued
in May this year, it was stated that
after seven months of difficult trading
there had been an improvement since
February and that we were operating
on a more profitable basis. This has
continued, and for the second half of
the year our turnover showed an in-
crease of 20%, as compared with the
first six months.
It is apparent that the economic
recession which we have been through
affected industries on a somewhat
different timetable. As far as we are
concerned, the period of difficult
trading spread almost equally over two
six-monthly periods of the two finan-
cial years 1961 and 1962.
I am pleased to be able to report
that the recovery indicated in May
has continued and our turnover for
the three months ended September has
shown an increase of 37% as com-
pared with the same period last year.
It has been a difficult year for
Management, and the several problems
of increases in raw material and fin-
ished products inventory and the reduc-
tion of staff, referred to in my last
address, has been controlled, as you
will see from detailed comments on
the main items of our accounts.
Our staff has been increased and is
now 20% above the low level reached
in 1961. Productivity throughout the
factory has improved.
All sections of our business, includ-
ing the sale of replacement parts, have
improved, and at the present time the
inflow of orders is at a very satisfac-
tory level.
We have made some major technical
improvements to several of our pro-
ducts. A new type of automotive Rear
Axle Shaft has been introduced and
approved by industry. This uses a
lower and cheaper grade of Steel than
previously, but a better product is
achieved by a special process of Induc-
tion Hardening. Our plant is the only
one of its kind in Australia, and there
are only a few operating outside the
United States of America.
We are also introducing a new type
of Exhaust Valve Steel which is par-
ticularly suited to high compression
engines. This was developed by our
overseas Associate, Thompson Ramo
Wooldridge Inc., and will be of bene-
fit to all users of Motor Vehicles.
During the year two of our Associ-
ate Directors, Messrs. P. L. Duly,
8.E., and D. H. Richards, A.M.I.E.
(Aust.), visited the U.S.A. and con-
ferred with Thompson Ramo Wool-
dridge Inc. on developments in the
manufacture of Valves for internal
combustion engines and other matters.
They also visited most of the major
companies in the Motor Vehicle
Industry, and much valuable know-
ledge was gained.
It is pleasing to note the continued
increase in our Export Trade. Sales
to our established markets continued
to rise, and markets were found for
products not previously exported.
In spite of the fact that our profit
for the year does not cover the 10%
dividend on our Paid Capital, we re-
gard the prospects for the future as
being sufficiently good to recommend
this payment, and reserves will be
drawn on for the additional money
that is needed.
A review of accounts is now pre-
sented for your information.
NETT PROFIT:
The Nett Profit for the year of
£209,331, compared to the preceding
year’s Profit of £184,091, shows an
increase of £25,240. The amount
charged for Depreciation is £106,051,
against last year’s total of £116,132.
Provision for Taxation has been in-
creased by £3,000 to £84,000.
The Directors recommend the pay-
ment of a Final Dividend at the rate
of 5%, absorbing the sum of £82,212,
which, together with the Interim Divi-
dend of 5% paid in July last, makes a
total Dividend of 10% for the year,
amounting to £164,424.
Balance of the current year’s profit,
viz., £2,013, will be added to the
Accumulated Profits, making the total
amount carried forward £313,544.
RESERVES:
The total Reserves shown in the
Balance Sheet amount to £763,043
after giving effect to appropriations
recommended by the Directors, and,
with the exception of Unappropriated
Profits, have not been drawn upon
during the year.
SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS:
The Shareholders’ Funds now total
£2,407,285, a decrease of £37,695 for
the year.
LAND AND BUILDINGS:
The total value of the Company’s
property is £602,873, the increase for
the year amounting to £18,412.
PLANT AND MACHINERY:
After making provision for deprecia-
tion of the whole Plant, the Balance
Sheet disclosed a nett decrease of
£34,956 but the gross capital cost of
the new plant installed during the year
is £69,006.
SUNDRY DEBTORS AND BILLS
RECEIVABLE.
The amount is £300,495 (last year
£263,847). The increase for the year
is £36,648. Collection of Accounts
has received close attention during the
year, and all accounts are in excellent
order.
SUNDRY CREDITORS AND BILLS
PAYABLE:
Amounts payable and accrued
charges total £100,529, which is an
increase of £5,385 from last year’s
total of £95,144.
STOCK INVENTORY:
£1,262,295 (£1,402,652) is a reduc-
tion of £140,357 over last year’s total
after making suitable provision for
obsolescence.
BANK OVERDRAFT:
£230,896 (last year £356,421). The
reduction of this amount is in keep-
ing with the policy of the Directors of
maintaining this item within a limit
consistent with the Company’s other
liabilities.
DEPRECIATION:
£106,051 (last year £116,132). Ade-
quate provision for depreciation over
the whole plant has been made and
shows a reduction of £lO,OBl com-
pared to that of last year. All plant
equipment, etc., has been maintained
in first-class order throughout the year.
TAXATION:
£84,000 (last year £81,000), an
increase of £3,000.
I now take pleasure, on behalf of my
Co-Directors, of expressing thanks to
our very loyal group of employees
for the support they have given
throughout the year, and also our
thanks are extended to the many hun-
dreds of customers in Australia and
overseas for their continued support
of the Company’s products.


NORTH BROKEN HILL LIMITED
Address delivered by the Chairman of Directors of North
Broken Hill Ltd., Mr. M. L. Baillieu, at the General Annual
Meeting of shareholders on Friday, 2nd November, 1962.
Before dealing with the formal busi-
ness of the meeting, I wish to refer
to the retirement on 31st Decem-
ber last of Mr. O. H. Woodward. He is
well known to many of you as for more
than 26 years he has attended these meet-
ings—in earlier years as the Company’s
General Manager and since 1944 as a
member of the Board.
Mr. Woodward had a most distin-
guished career with the Broken Hill
Mining Industry and rendered the Indus-
try conspicuous service. From 1920 to
1934, he was at the Broken Hill Associa-
ted Smelters Pty. Ltd. at Port Pirie and
was General Superintendent there during
a period of extensive re-building and
when notable improvements in metallur-
gical processes were introduced. He was
appointed General Manager of the North
Company at the end of 1934 and it was
under his guidance that the operations
of the North Mine were modernised
during the succeeding years.
Mr. Woodward's progressive outlook
and breadth of knowledge in both mining
and metallurgy are well known and these
attributes, together with his outstanding
personal qualities, were always at the ser-
vice of the Industry.
My colleagues and I as members of
the Board miss him both as an associate
and as a friend. I am sure that you will
join us in wishing him good health and
happiness in his retirement.
As the Report and Accounts for the
year ended 30th June, 1962, have been in
shareholders’ hands for some time, I do
not propose to refer to them in detail.
However, there are a number of points
on which I will comment.
FINANCIAL
The surplus for 1962 was £601,870
compared with £1,020,026 for the pre-
vious year. The decrease of £418,156 was
attributable, firstly, to a reduction of
£377,1 17 in the Surplus on Operations
caused mainly by substantially lower
prices for lead and zinc and, secondly, to
a reduction of £41,039 in our nett In-
come from Investments.
The average price realised for our lead
was £A7I/16/7 a ton compared with
£AB2/6/!0 for the previous financial
year, whilst zinc produced from our con-
centrates averaged £AB9/8/8 a ton,
F. 0.8. Risdon, compared with the pre-
vious year’s figure of £ AlO7/14/8,
There was an improvement in the return
from our silver, for which we received
AB/6.8d. an ounce or A4/6d. more
than for 1961. Indeed, the price of silver
has continued to improve, and the present
figure approximates AlO/Bd. an ounce.
As has been mentioned in the Report,
our lead sales, which included 16,521
tons sold by barter to the United States
of America, exceeded production by ap-
proximately 20,000 tons and as a result,
the quantity of lead unrealised and valued
in the Accounts at 30th June, 1962, was
20,395 tons compared with 40,397 tons
at the end of the previous financial year.
As the year’s results indicate, the better
price for silver and the surplus over book
value received for the sales of lead stocks
were insufficient to offset the effect of
lower lead and zinc prices.
When addressing you last year, I stated
that there would be economics on opera-
tions arising from the disposal of the
British-J unction leases. Those savings,
plus those resulting from other economies
in expenditure, and further improvements
in efficiency, were not inconsiderable and
were the main factors in reducing Mine
Expenditure, excluding Outside Explora-
tion, by more than £345,000.
Administration Expenditure at
£180,467 was £43,740 higher than in
1961. Expenditure associated with the
Company’s “1961 New Issue” of
4,200,000 shares accounted for £37,358
of that increase, the balance being mainly
attributable to interest paid.
There was a reduction compared with
the previous year in the amount of divi-
dends received and as a result, our nett
Income from Investments was £41,039
lower than for 1961.
Shareholders will note from the
accounts that the nett assets of the Com-
pany approximate £18,500,000. This sum
is considerably in excess of the valuation
placed on the Company by current Stock
Exchange prices for the shares.
Under the heading “Investments” it
will be noted that the Company’s
accounts value its investments in com-
panies dealt in on any prescribed Stock
Exchange at £5,200,000. The market
value of these interests at the 30th June,
1962 was £4,071,000.
At current Stock Exchange values these
assets are worth £4,327,000, or approxi-
mately £873,000 below the Balance Sheet
figures. The investments held by the
Company are set out on Page 11 of the
Report. Shareholders can make their
assessment of the value of the shares dealt
in on prescribed Stock Exchanges in the
light of Stock Exchange quotations from
time to time, and there is little that I
can add that would be usefully of inter-
est with regard to this item in our
accounts.
Shareholders, no doubt, will be more
interested in any comment I can make
with regard to the item “Investments in
other Companies.” These are valued in
the accounts at £6,080,000. They com-
prise firstly, and most importantly, our
investment in The Broken Hill Associa-
ted Smelters Pty. Ltd. B.H.A.S. as you
probably all know, buys the lead concen-
trate output of The Zinc Corporation
Ltd., Broken Hill South Ltd., and your
Company, which it smelts at Port Pirie.
B.H.A.S. also has substantial coal in-
terests in New South Wales, and owns
Coal Cliff Collieries Pty. Ltd., Port
Kembla No. 2 Colliery Pty. Ltd. and
Illawarra Coke Co. Pty. Ltd. The terms
under which B.H.A.S. buys the concen-
trates from the Broken Hill Mining Com-
panies yield a reasonable return to the
Smelter Company out of which for 1961
it paid a dividend of 10%, of which your
Company’s proportion was £195,000.
Next in importance in our holdings is
our interest in Metal Manufacturers Ltd.
approximating 1,648,000 shares. This
Company is currently paying I\%, and
the dividend received on this holding is
thus approximating £124,000 a year.
Your Company has a holding of
410,000 shares in The Electrolytic Re-
fining and Smelting Co. of Australia Pty.
Ltd. Due mainly to Japanese competition
for concentrates and scrap that Com-
pany’s operations are barely remunerative
and we are not receiving any return on
our investment.
Another investment of importance is
our interest in Commonwealth Aircraft
Corporation Pty. Ltd. from which for
last year we received a 10% dividend and
in which we now have 262,500 shares.
It is expected that the aggregate of divi-
dends from our investments not listed on
prescribed Stock Exchanges will approxi-
mate £350,000 for the present year. It is
always difficult to value shares, and I will
make no attempt to guide shareholders
in this respect, but with the information
I have given above, shareholders will be
better informed to make their own assess-
ment of the position set out in the
accounts.
The most important asset in the Com-
pany's Balance Sheet is, of course, the
Mine. It will be noted that the original
cost of plant and buildings, together with
freeholds and leaseholds was approxima-
tely £9,000,000. After depreciation,
these assets are valued in the Company’s
Balance Sheet at £6,557,000. The value
of the Mine must largely depend on what
it can earn. However, it may interest
shareholders to know that the total expen-
diture to date on the No. 3 Shaft pro-


gramme, which is approaching comple-
tion, approximates £7,000,000, including
the actual cost of sinking. This figure
does not include the provision of power
at the Western New South Wales power
station.
The cost of additional power plant
necessary to provide for No. 3 Shaft
development and other future develop-
ment approximated £1,700,000 and of
that sum £1,336,000 already has been
redeemed.
Furthermore, the cost of the Mine as
set out in the Accounts does not include
the cost of developing ore in advance of
extraction. It is, therefore, not without
interest to point out that the sum the
Company has invested in the Mine in
forward development, excluding shafts,
approximates £7,000,000. This amount,
of course, has been charged to costs, and
is not reflected in the assets as set out in
the Balance Sheet.
I have already said that the real value
of the Mine must depend in the end on
what it can yield. This again depends on
metal prices and costs, the latter being
affected considerably by production rates.
The bringing into operation of No. 3
Shaft, despite the very great cost which
has been involved, will add greatly to
the Company’s ability to produce, and
consequently contribute to, reducing
mining costs. I hope the future will de-
monstrate that shareholders will have
reason to feel that the sum expended on
this very large project, and the measure
of sacrifice which has been called for,
will have been well worthwhile.
RECENT HISTORY
I will now briefly, and as succinctly as
I can make some comment on the opera-
tions of the Company over the past five
years. They have been very important,
but also very difficult years.
We have had to go through this period
without the assistance of No. 3 Shaft.
More than that, our accounts have had
to bear the burden of completing No. 3
Shaft. I refer in particular to the last
five years because it seems to me as
one who has been associated with the
industry for a considerable time, that
1957 saw the end of the period when
lead was easy to sell at prices which
even on our then existing scale of pro-
duction, yielded comfortable revenue to
the Company.
For the year ended 1957 our revenue
from Mine Production was £7,300,000.
The years 1958, 1959, 1960 and 1961
saw us with a total revenue from mining
operations of only £17,100,000 and this
amount was not actually received in cash,
as approximately £1,400,000 was repre-
sented by the build-up in our stocks of
some 25,000 tons of lead. Thus, the cash
revenue to the Company from mining
averaged about £3,900,000 a year, as
against the £7,300,000 in 1957. Before
providing for royalty, tax or capital ex-
penditure, our expenditure on mine
account for this period was £14,300,000.
Our capital expenditure over these four
years, mainly relating to the new shaft,
was £727,000. In addition, outgoings
under the headings of administration, ex-
ploration, prospecting, provision for
royalty and for tax, called for another
£1,240,000, making a total disbursement
in respect of the Company’s operations of
about £16,300,000 as against cash realisa-
tions of £15,700,000.
At this stage, I shall refer to the Com-
pany’s policy which was enunciated at
the Annual General Meeting in October
1958, when it was said:—
“Your Board is following the policy
of producing to capacity within the
reduced working time, firstly, because
it will result in a lower average cost
in respect of Concentrates sold, and,
secondly, because the increased stock
of Lead Concentrates being produced
at little added extra cost will, we feel
confident, prove a valuable asset at
some future date.
It is realised that as a result of this
policy, a significant portion of the
financial resources available to the
Company could well be locked up in
these Concentrate stocks but, none-the-
less, it is felt that the Company is in
a position to undertake this responsi-
bility and that it will be to the advan-
tage of everyone connected with the
Company to do so under present con-
ditions”.
To the extent it has been possible, that
policy has been implemented over the
past five years. Not only did prices for
metals fall in 1957, but subsequently, we
experienced great difficulty in selling the
lead that we were able to produce. The
Company was faced with a decision to
produce either to the maximum or to pro-
duce to the extent it could sell. Costs
depend very largely on production, and
if we were to meet the challenge of lower
prices, we had either to face substantial
losses, or produce to the maximum, sell
what could be sold, and carry the rest
at valuation. With the exception of the
calendar year 1961, and the first three
months of 1962, the Company has im-
plemented that policy.
While this policy resulted in account-
ing profits, it adversely affected the cash
resources of the Company, because of
the influence the valued lead had on the
Company’s taxable profits and conse-
quential tax and royalty liability.
In the calendar year 1961, and for the
first three months of 1962, to which I
have referred, the Company, together
with others undertook to limit its produc-
tion, and on this condition the United
States Commodity Credit Corporation
undertook to barter portion of the lead
stocks held by the Broken Hill Associated
Smelters. The results of what took
place then are reflected in our 1962
accounts. In that year, the unsold stock
lead which your Company had produc-
ed over the previous four years, and
which was held at valuation, was prac-
tically all sold. The Company produc-
ed 48,000 tons, but sold 68,000 tons,
and these sales resulted in reducing its
lead and concentrate stocks at valuation
by £1,300,000.
Thus, 1962, firstly in the financial
year, and secondly in the calendar year,
has been quite an important one for the
Company. In the financial year, we have
been able to realise lead stocks which
we had built up on the policy originally
enunciated in my speech in 1958. In
the calendar year we have seen the No.
3 Shaft, which was commenced in 1948,
brought into operation; the importance
of this not only from the shareholders’
point of view, but from the point of
view of anyone who is interested in the
Company, cannot be over-stated.
I have gone to some detail in discus-
sing the last five years in the belief that
all associated with the Company will
find the review of particular interest at
the present time.
US STOCKPILE
Before leaving the past, it may be of
interest to shareholders if I make some
comment on the transactions in which
our Company has been concerned with
the United States Stockpile, indirectly
through The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty. Ltd. The terms in which
I will seek to illustrate what has taken
place will be descriptive only, and I
will make my comments as short . as
possible, but in brief what has taken
place amounts to this: —
The American Strategic Stockpile was,
as its name implies, conceived for
strategic purposes only. In 1946 the
intention which motivated the legislation
which resulted in the stockpile was to
secure that country for certain essential
materials in the event of another world
conflict. The aim was to get the
materials and price was not the main
consideration, it was procurement. It
was believed at that time that the com-
mercial demand for many materials, in-
cluding especially metals, was going to
be greater than the supply. In order
to make it possible to secure the quanti-
ties which were envisaged, the United
States Government not only took advant-
age of every opportunity to secure a
quota of existing production, but financed
the development of new production at
guaranteed prices.
With regard to the particular metal in
which we are interested, namely lead,
the apparent shortage of lead at that
time in considerable measure was due
to tbe fact that there was no organised
world-wide collection and smelting of
lead scrap. However, encouraged by
the apparent shortage, and the very high
prices, collection of scrap became organ-


ised on a vast and efficient scale in every
lead producing country. The result was
that by 1954 the industry appeared to
be about to face a crisis of over-supply,
rather than of shortage, and this was
accentuated by commercial demand for
lead not reaching the levels predicted,
in fact, lead gradually began to lose
many of its existing usages, in particular,
white lead, which was a substantial con-
sumer of virgin lead gradually gave
place to more favored substitutes.
In an attempt to stabilise the position,
the United States Government agreed to
barter through Commodity Credit Cor-
poration for surplus stocks of lead.
When this decision was announced, the
President’s covering statement included
the following:—
“Since the benefits to be derived from
the increase of the tariff on lead and
zinc are so uncertain, I am not pre-
pared to seek them at the expense of the
serious adverse consequences that would
would follow for our international rela-
tions. Lead and zinc are important to
several key countries in areas of vital
interest. Moreover, it must be recog-
nised that our economy requires sub-
stantial quantities of imported lead and
zinc to augment domestic production in
peace-time, and that the United States
relies on nearby friendly nations to
assist us in meeting fully our mobilisa-
tion requirements in wartime ....
“I am directing the Secretary of Agri-
culture to initiate action designed to
acquire lead and zinc of foreign origin,
from the proceeds of foreign sales of
surplus agricultural commodities, for the
Supplemental Stockpile authorised by
Section 104 of the Agricultural Trade
Development and Assistance Act of
1954. This supplemental Stockpile is
intended to be above and beyond the
needs of our regular stockpiles under
the Stockpiling Act, and the materials in
the Supplemental Stockpile will also be
insulated to be released only under
stringent statutory control.”
This action appeared to stabilise the
industry until 1957 when production
again appeared to have out-stripped con-
sumption. Further barter deals were
then arranged, and again contributed to
ease the position. None-the-less, as I
have already set out above, the produc-
tion of lead continued to outpace con-
sumption, and finallly the most recent
disposal arrangement, which I have re-
ferred to above, was arranged with the
United States Authorities.
I have elaborated on this to make
clear that while the transactions which
were carried out by the original Strategic
Stockpile had as their main, and prob-
ably only purpose, the securing of
strategic metals to the United States
Government to guard against war, the
further transactions which have taken
place since 1954 with the Commodity
Credit Corporation were designed to
assist the producer, and on behalf of
the North Company I feel that we
should state that fact, and record our
appreciation of it.
ALUMINIUM PRODUCTION
As well as our holdings in those
Companies to which I have already re-
ferred, one of our most important in-
vestments is Alcoa of Australia Pty. Ltd.
That Company is making rapid progress
in the development of its £ 45-million
project for an integrated aluminium in-
dustry. Company headquarters have
been established in Melbourne, acom-
modating the Managing Director and
Sales and Administrative Staffs.
Preparation of the mining site in the
Darling Ranges is under w r ay, and con-
struction work for the £ 10-million
bauxite refining plant at Kwinana, West-
ern Australia, and the £ 23-million
smelting and fabricating plant at Point
Henry, near Geelong, Victoria, are well
advanced.
The Company has recently announced
a schedule of availability for its pro-
ducts, indicating that ingots will be pro-
duced in March, 1963, extrusions in the
third quarter of 1963, and a variety of
sheet mill products during the second
half of 1964. Initial sales contacts have
proved encouraging, and the long range
prospect for Australian aluminium ap-
pears promising both at home and in the
export market.
MINE OPERATIONS
Ore treated in the Mill during the
financial year totalled 352,374 tons com-
pared with 367,651 tons for the year to
30th June, 1961.
For the first nine months of the year,
Mine production was limited to the level
of sales of metals in accordance with
agreed restrictions, but these restrictions
ceased at 31st March and for the last
three months of the year the Mine
operated at maximum capacity.
During this latter period it is inter-
esting to record that stope productivity
figures were the highest recorded by the
Company up to that time.
As a result of the transfer of the
British-Junction Section of the Mine to
Broken Hill South Limited in 15th Janu-
ary, 1962, all production from that date
was from the North Mine.
Due largely to the sale of the British-
Junction section, ore reserves were lower
at 4,035,000 tons. Another factor was
the limitation placed on the development
in the orebody while No. 3 Shaft was
being sunk.
Ore treatment operations were main-
tained at a very satisfactory standard
throughout the year. The recoveries of
lead, silver and zinc in concentrates
were close to the highest figures ever
achieved and further improvement in the
grade of zinc in zinc concentrate was
obtained, this being the highest recorded.
The sinking of No. 3 Shaft has been
completed to a depth of 50 feet below
the 4,270 feet level, and it is now equip-
ped for the hoisting of ore and waste
rock and for the servicing of this area
of the Mine by means of double-deck
cages.
I have pleasure in reporting that the
first truck of ore was hoisted through
No. 3 Shaft on the 2nd October.
Skip hoisting of ore in eight-ton
capacity skips will be commenced early
in 1963 from No. 1 Loading Station at
the depth of 3,520 feet. Cage haulage
of ore has increased the production
capacity of the Mine and the skip haul-
age of ore will further augment it.
For the year under review, 22,442
feet of diamond drilling were completed
from underground locations in the North
Section.
Drilling was commenced with the
F. 150 Diamond Drilling machine from
the surface to probe the area north of
No. 3 Shaft and south of the De Bavay
Fault at depths between 4,500 and 6,000
feet. To date the parent hole is at a
depth of 3,559 feet after considerable
delay due to ground conditions.
During the year, increased activity was
undertaken in Northern Queensland in
the search for tin, copper, molybdenum
and other minerals.
In association with other Companies,
prospecting has also been carried out in
South Australia and in the Broken Hill
area.
Industrial relations with the Barrier
Industrial Council and Affiliated Unions
continued in a satisfactory manner
throughout the year.
TAXATION
Early this year, the Lead-Zinc In-
dustry again made representations to the
Federal Government for lead and zinc
to be included in the list of metals and
minerals prescribed for the purposes of
Section 23A of the Income Tax and
Social Services Contribution Assessment
Act. Under this Section, a tax-free al-
lowance of 20% of the taxable income
derived from mining the listed materials
is granted in view of the special circum-
stances of mining and, more particularly,
in recognition of the wasting nature of
ore bodies which are the principal assets
of mining enterprises. The list com-
prises almost all non-ferrous metals with
the exception of lead, zinc and silver and
those in respect of which more favor-
able taxation conditions apply. Similar
provisions apply in other important min-
ing countries.
The Industry’s representations were
rejected without any reasons being
given.
It is difficult to understand the attitude
of the Government in singling out the
Lead-Zinc Industry for differential treat-
ment in this respect. The Industry is
of major importance to the economy of
Australia as a direct and indirect em-


ployer of labor and as one of the major
contributors to the country’s export in-
come. Despite continued and most
strenuous efforts to improve its efficiency
the Industry has, for the last five years,
operated at a level of profitability far
below that required to give anything ap-
proaching a reasonable return on the
very large investment in it.
TRANSPORT
The Broken Hill Mining Companies
are negotiating with the authorities in
South Australia in order to obtain some
alleviation of the freight rates currently
payable for the transport of their con-
centrates from Cockburn on the South
Australian border to Port Pirie. This
section of the railway comprises 218
miles or 853% of the distance from
Broken Hill to Port Pirie and the charges
payable constitute probably the most
onerous and disproportionately high cost
with which the Mining Companies are
faced.
We believe that present freight rates
paid to the South Australian Railways
may fairly be regarded under present
railway operating conditions as being a
levy on the Broken Hill Mining Industry
of approximately £900,000 a year over
and above what would be reasonably
profitable rates calculated from the stat-
istics of the S.A.R. or judged by charges
for similar services elsewhere in Austra-
lia or overseas, or the cost of performing
the task by road transport.
GENERAL
During the year, lead concentrate pro-
duced at the Mine continued to be sold
to The Broken Hill Associated Smelters
Pty. Ltd. under the long-term agreement
with that Company. The whole of our
zinc concentrate was sold to the Electro-
lytic Zinc Company of Australasia Ltd.
Following the termination of our long-
term contract with the E. Z. Company
at the end of 1961, we obtained materi-
ally better terms for the sale of our
concentrate to that Company for the
calendar year 1962. Recently, agree-
ment has been reached for somewhat
more favorable terms for 1963.
For some months, the proposed entry
of the United Kingdom into the Euro-
pean Economic Community and the
possible effect of this on Australia’s lead-
zinc industry have been the subject of
Governmental and Press comment. As
at present, the six E.E.C. countries have
agreed that there should be a common
external tariff equivalent to £A6/-/- per
ton on both lead and zinc metal and
that the concentrates of those metals
should be admitted duty-free. On the
other hand, our metals shipped to the
United Kingdom—which is one of the
Industry's most important outlets—are
admitted duty-free under the Empire
preference scheme, thereby enjoying an
advantage of approximately A9/4d. a
ton compared to producers outside the
Commonwealth.
In seeking admittance to the E.E.C.
the United Kingdom has asked for the
proposed duty of £A6/-/- to be re-
duced to nil in common with the United
Kingdom’s policy of duty-free admit-
tance of raw materials. While this re-
quest has been placed before the E.E.C.
we understand that it has not been con-
sidered as yet.
For the calendar year 1961, the world
statistics for both lead and zinc showed
relatively small excesses of production
over consumption compared to the
amounts of these metals produced.
At the meeting of the International
Lead and Zinc Study Group held last
month in Geneva, the statistical studies
indicated improved positions for both
metals in 1962. In the case of lead,
consumption for the year is expected to
rise by nearly 6% and it was estimated
that there would be a deficit of 74,000
tons for the whole year of production
against consumption compared with a
surplus of 100,000 tons for 1961. Also
Producers’ stocks of lead fell by 65,000
tons in the first nine months of 1962.
In zinc, there is a small surplus expected
for 1962 but the likely imbalance is not
significant in relation to World consump-
tion of that metal which is now at about
2,700,000 tons a year.
Both these estimates take account of
substantially higher production in 1962
by some producers, including the Broken
Hill Mining Companies.
When I addressed you last year, I
said that your Company, together with
the other Broken Hill Mining Companies,
had agreed to restrict mine and smelter
production and sales as a condition of
the barter sale to the United States Gov-
ernment Stockpile of the greater portion
of the excess stocks of lead held by The
Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty.
Ltd. and that these restrictions would
cease as at 31st March, 1962. At the
same time, I referred to the difficulty
of operating the Company’s Mine eco-
nomically at a low rate of production
when its facilities and organisation were
geared to a much higher rate than our
then rate of output. I also stated that
there were to be further talks between
producing countries with a view to evolv-
ing a scheme for bringing stability to
lead producers in an equitable manner.
These discussions took place in Geneva
early this year. No restrictions on Mine
output were considered and as a result,
your Company reverted to the policy of
full production within its resources from
31st March this year.
Working at a higher and increasing
rate of production since the end of
March has resulted in cost economies
which have more than offset the further
fall in the price of lead and which, taken
with the value of the extra metal being
produced and other factors, should re-
suit in a higher return from our opera-
tions for the present financial year than
we have experienced in recent years or
would otherwise have been practicable.
Also, our ability to increase production
and profitability will be materially assist-
ed by the commencement of operations
at No. 3 Shaft which will give access to
stopes from which we can expect better-
than-average productive efficiency and
ore of above-average grade. Compared
with recent years, our profitability will
also benefit from the improvement in
silver prices which we hope will be main-
tained and from the better terms on
which our zinc concentrate will be sold
in the second half of the financial year.
It is pleasing to report that, currently,
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters has
sold virtually the whole of its permitted
output of lead metal for 1962 and could
have sold more were it free to do so.
The position in this regard for 1963 is
also good and forward commitments
have already been made for the sale of
a large part of the Smelter Company's
anticipated output at prices to be re-
lated to London Metal Exchange quota-
tions at the time of delivery.
For the current financial year, we ex-
pect to sell our whole output of zinc
concentrate.
The Compay's investment income
should not change significantly compared
with the year to the 30th June, 1962.
Thus, subject to there being no further
significant falls in the market prices for
our products, we feel shareholders may
reasonably expect the Company's opera-
tions to be appreciably more profitable
in the present year than in the past year.
However, we cannot, at the present level
of market prices, expect a surplus from
our mining operation which is adequate-
ly commensurate with the amount of
capital which your Company has in-
vested in it.
STAFF
From the point of view of staff and
labor force, the 15 years, which is the
period which has elapsed since No. 3
Shaft was first commenced, have called
for great effort and technical skill. When
sinking was commenced in 1948, the
Country's economy had not recovered
from the war.
Equipment and supplies of the neces-
sary materials to construct the Shaft
were difficult to obtain. At a later stage
unexpected and frustrating difficulties
were encountered due to bad conditions
in the ground through which the Shaft
was being sunk. Therefore, I feel that
on behalf of the shareholders I should
express to our Staff congratulations on
the completion of a task which we feel
will make a great contribution to the
future of Broken Hill. I should also
like to thank them for the continuation
of their efforts throughout the past year
to further reduce costs and increase the
efficiency of our operations.


SfiAmg Is A&fce and XnwA
& a wt eHod&o than goto think
SPRING IS HERE AND XMAS IS A LOT CLOSER
THAN YOU THINK. SOON YOU'LL HAVE TO THINK
ABOUT PRESENTS FOR THE FAMILY. FOR
RELATIVES, FOR FRIENDS BOTH HERE AND
MAYBE, OVERSEAS. WHY NOT A
subscription to The Bulletin"
AUSTRALIA'S OLDEST (ESTABLISHED 1880^
AND BIGGEST MAGAZINE OF NEWS AND
COMMENT? YOU CAN ORDER IT FROM YOUR
NEWSAGENT OR BY FILLING IN
THE FORM AT RIGHT
FIHL
Department,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
NAME...
address
Please arrange for my BULLETIN to
be delivered to me each week by
my newsagent
by direct subscription
Please tick W) whichever method of
delivery you prefen
For those desiring direct
'"pfeasTfind enclosed my cheque/money
ordir for months subscr.ption to
RATES (Australia and |*«^ s G post free British
countries —-
N.Z. I ftJßSCßimriON&Jtemlt £ to Box
Wellington, 6s. (N.Z. currency).
P lpnsP. tk year £1 6s.
taldong m/due. and mate admit tfi& BuMdln/
MARKETING
25 PICKED MEN SEEKING TRADE
WITH WEST INDIES
'E'ach of the 25-man Australian Trade
Mission which left for the Caribbean
recently is a picked man with full
knowledge of where he is going and
what to do when he gets there. On top
of this he has the assistance of an en-
thusiastic Government. The Department
of Trade has sent two of its top men
and the Senior Australian Trade Com-
missioner in New York (Mr H. C.
Menzies) and the Resident Trade Com-
missioner in the Caribbean (Mr. H. L.
Martin) were to join them on arrival.
Leading the mission is a man with
an impressive business record, Sir
Reginald Groom, of Brisbane. Senior
partner in the accountancy firm of
Groom, Sanders and Co., he is also chair-
man of Brolite Industries and Unit Trust
Ltd., director of Mount Isa Mines, Gen-
eral Rubber Company, English Electric
Co. of Australia, the P. and O. Co. of
Australia and Fire Fighting Equipment
Ltd. Apparently all this is not enough
to make a full day for Sir Reginald, for
he is also active in public affairs and
served two terms as Lord Mayor of
Brisbane from 1955 to 1961. It seems
likely he will set a lively pace for the
other members of the mission.
Sir Reginald puts strong emphasis on
the necessity to sell Australia as a leading
producer of industrial goods as well as
of primary products. He feels, however,
that our best prospects lie in the supply of
goods connected with the sophisticated
market created by the immense tourist
trade which the West Indies islands
enjoy.
A feature of this mission is the pres-
ence of two export consultants, indicat-
ing the growing trend in business circles
to use professional market research ad-
vice before entering the free-for-all of
world competition. One of the consult-
ants is Mr J. F. H. Booth, of Sydney,
and the other Mr G. Keen, of Graham
Keen and Associates, Adelaide. Each is
representing a number of companies, with
interests ranging from primary products
to automotive parts and industrial tools.
Most members of the group represent
interests in primary produce, but there is
also a wide representation of other manu-
facturers, from pharmaceuticals to trans-
formers.
The mission will visit Jamaica, Trini-
dad, Barbados, British Guiana, Surinam
and Mexico, which between them import
annually goods valued at £BOO million,
but at present only £6.5 million comes
from Australia. The aim of the mission
is to cut itself a slice of this rich cake.
In recent years economic development
in the West Indies has raised the standard
of living and hence the requirements of
the people. The present Australian Trade
Commissioner in Trinidad, Mr L. J.
Martin, says there are bright prospects
for a wide variety of manufactured
goods from sporting equipment in
Trinidad to electrical conduit in Bar-
bados. Australians who have already
visited the area believe it will prove
more promising and less competitive
than the South East Asian market. They
say selling will be easier there because
the standard of living is higher than in
Asia; import licensing is more liberal,
there is no language difficulty, except in
Mexico, and commercial law is based on
British principles.
So optimistic is the Department of
Trade about success that it has arranged
a sailing date in February 1963 for a
ship to carry the goods sold by the
mission during its seven weeks visit.


COMPANY NOTICES
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
of New South Wales Limited
NOTICE OF MEETING
The Seventy-Fifth Annual General Meet-
ing of Shareholders will be held at the
Company’s offices 23-25 O'Connell St.,
Sydney, on Tuesday. 20 th November,
1962, at 2.15 p.m.
BUSINESS
1. To receive and consider the Profit and
Loss Accounts and the Balance Sheet
for the year ended 30th September,
1962, with the Reports of the Directors
and Auditors thereon.
2. To declare a dividend and bonus.
3. To elect Directors. Messrs. Charles
Herbert Locke and David Maxwell Car-
ment (who retire by effluxion of time),
also Messrs. Broughton Gordon Edgell
and Frederick Arthur Brodie (who
were appointed during the year to fill
casual vacancies) retire in accordance
with the Articles of Association, but
are eligible and offer themselves f-or
re-election.
4. To appoint Auditors and fix their
remuneration. Messrs. Yarwood, Vane
& Co., the retiring Auditors, are
eligible for re-appointment and offer
themselves accordingly.
5. Special business: To consider and, if
thought fit, to pass the following
resolution pursuant to Section 121 (6)
of the Companies Act 1961: “That Sir
John Northcott be authorised to con-
tinue in office as a Director, until the
next Annual General Meeting of the
Company, notwithstanding that he
recently attained 72 years of age.”
6. To consider any other business which
may arise in accordance with the
Articles of Association.
By Order of the Board,
F. R. GARLAND,
Manager.
Sydney,
31st October, 1962.
A member entitled to attend and vote
at the meeting is entitled to appoint one
or more proxies to attend and vote in his
stead. The proxy need not be a member
of the Company.
JAMES MURPHY BURSARIES
for
AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
for
(a) THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY:
Providing all fees payable to the University of Sydney, the cost of residence at St John's
College and - an allowance of up to £25 per annum, payable at the discretion of the Trustees,
or
(b) HAWKESBURY AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE:
Providing all fees and text books not exceeding £l9O per annum.
Applications are invited for the above Bursaries, made available under the Will of the
late James Murphy, of Como.
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means are insufficient to enable
their sons to study Agricultural Science and must satisfy the requirements for Matriculation at
the University of Sydney, or of Entrance to the Hawkesbury Agricultural College, as the case
may be.
Forms of Application (which must be returned duly completed not later than the 19th
November, 1962, in the case of Bursaries tenable at the Hawkesbury Agricultural College and
not later than the 7th January, 1963, in the case of those tenable at the University of
Sydney) and further particulars may be obtained from:
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY LIMITED,
33-39 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
CONCERN OVER AUSTRALIAN WINES
LOSING GROUND IN BRITAIN
"Dritain, which takes two-thirds of our
export wine, is drinking more wine
each year—but our wine sales are not
growing in proportion. In fact they have
virtually stood still for the last seven
or eight years. This situation has the
Australian wine trade and the Wine
Board worried.
Most of Britain’s increased consump-
tion is of table wines—and unfortunately
Australia’s exports are chiefly of sweet
wines. We have good quality table wines
available for export, but exporters say
they cannot compete on the British
market against low-priced wines from
the Continent.
Britain’s wine consumption has risen
from 13i million gallons in 1957-58 to
191 million gallons in 1961-62. Austra-
lia's exports have remained steady mean-
time at about 1,150,000 gallons a year.
Britain’s biggest wine suppliers in
order are Spain, France and South
Africa. Several other countries, includ-
ing Italy and Portugal, also outsell us.
Almost all these countries have in-
creased their British sales by more than
50 per cent in the last five years—and
Italy has more than doubled her’s.
In 1961-62 Australia’s wine shipments
to Britain dropped by 210,000 gallons.
This quantity would not normally cause
much concern as the variation could be
clue to shipping movements, and reason-
able stocks of Australian wine are avail-
able in bond in Britain to meet any
reasonable increase in demand.
But the drop, coming in a year of
record wine production in Australia, is
causing concern when viewed in combin-
ation with Britain’s continuing substan-
tial increase in wine consumption.
The fall in shipments to Britain w ; as
largely responsible for the decline in our
wine exports in 1961-62 from 1,927,795
gallons to 1,677.669 gallons. There was
also, however, a less important fall in
shipments to our second biggest market,
Canada. These fell from 361.398 gallons
to 340,594 gallons.
The amount of wine shipped is not
always an accurate guide to wine sales
on overseas markets—as a case in point,
clearances of Australian wine from bond
Canada in 1961 were a record
352,000 gallons.
Total exports of brandy in 1961-62
were 113,333 proof gallons, compared
with 84,114 proof gallons the previous
year.
Exports were the highest for ten years,
Singapore and Malaya taking most of
the increase.
NEW BREED OF SHEEP
A new breed of sheep for fat lambs
production was shown to British
farmers for the first time at the recent
Newcastle-on-Tyne Royal Show. The
breed, which is three parts British and one
part Continental, is called Coibred, after
the men who developed it Colburn
and Son Ltd., of Gloucester.
The aim was to build up higher fer-
tility, quicker growth and extra milking
capacity compared with existing blend
of breeds of sheep. The Coibred is a
blend of Border Leicester, Clun Forest
and Dorset Hern stock with the East
Friesland breed imported from Holland.
AWARDS FOR TRAPS
British Government recently paid
five inventors sums ranging from
£lOO to £l,OOO for having designed hu-
mane traps for rabbits and vermin to
replace the gun which was banned in
England and Wales in 1958.
No humane traps for foxes have been
approved. After investigation it was con-
sidered that killer traps for foxes could be
dangerous to dogs, lambs and people in
some situations.
DIET FOR BABY BEEF
T>aby beef fed on boiled barley and
** skim milk has paid big dividends in
experiments carried out by the UK Milk
Marketing Board. The tests have shown
that this mixture pays off in carcase
quality and conversion rates.
Digestive dissorders and losses, which
have become associated with the barley
beef diet, were completely eliminated.


Positions Vacant
SYDNEY GRAMMAR SCHOOL
College Street
SYDNEY
Applications are invited for the following two
posts for 1963:
1. A suitable qualified expert in Physical
Education or Physical Training and
Gymnastics.
2. A Master to develop the teaching of
Craft.
Salaries will be commensurate with qualifica-
tions and experience on a scale adjusted to
that of teachers in Public High Schools.
Masters are required to participate in the State
Superannuation Scheme. Applications, with
references, should be addressed in writing to
the Headmaster, Sydney Grammar School,
College Street, Sydney.
SYDNEY GRAMMAR
PREPARATORY SCHOOL,
ST. IVES HEADMASTERSHIP
Applications for the post of Headmaster of
Sydney Grammar Preparatory School, St. Ives,
are invited. Candidates must have strong
qualifications in the primary field, preferably
also a degree, but not necessarily, and should
have experience of boarding schools. The post
will be vacant in January, 1963, but not
necessarily filled until May. Details of con-
ditions, salary, etc. will be sent on application
which must be made in writing to the
Headmaster, Sydney Grammar School, College
Street, Sydney. No telephoned enquiries will
be accepted.
ALL SOULS' SCHOOL
CHARTERS TOWERS
Wanted Master to teach Physics and Mathe-
matics to Senior standard, commencing January,
1963, resident or non-resident, award salary.
For particulars apply Headmaster.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: KEVIN JAMES LESTER, formerly of 62
Power Street, Islington, but whose address is
now unknown. TAKE NOTICE that KATH-
LEEN ANICE LESTER has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2190 of 1962 on the grounds
of desertion. If you wish to defend you may
enter an Answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, by the
13th day of December, 1962, and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
W. G. Cannington & Son, Solicitors, Cnr.
Beaumont & James Sts., Hamilton, by their
Sydney agents, Dudley Westgarth & Co., 369
George Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES —ln Divorce
TO: ALBERT WILLIAM WALKER, late Of
Sydney, New South Wales. TAKE NOTICE
that VALERIE IRENE WALKER has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1441 of 1960 on the
ground of your adultery with one BERYL
BROWN. If you wish to defend the suit you
may enter an appearance within six weeks
from the date of the publication of this
Notice at the Divorce Registry, Mint Build-
ing, Macquarie Street, Sydney. A copy of
the Petition may be had without charge from
E. R. Abigail & Co., Solicitors, 115 Pitt Street,
Sydney. C A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: AUSTIN WILLIAM WOODBURY, late of
Hay in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that BERYL BELLE WOOD-
BURY has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1646 of 1962 on the grounds of desertion
without just cause of excuse for two years
and upwards. If you wish to defend you may
enter an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie St.,
Sydney by the thirtieth day of November
One thousand nine hundred and sixty-two
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from J. Gorney, Solicitor, 185 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: ARTHUR JAMES McLAUGHLIN late Of
85 Addison Street, Goulburn in the Slate of
New South Wales TAKE NOTICE that
KATHEEN VERONICA LOUISA McLAUGHLIN
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1069 of 1962
on the ground of desertion during the period
of two years and upward. If you wish to
defend this Petition you may enter an answer
in the divorce Registry, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney on or before the twenty
first day of December, 1962 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from Messrs
J. B. Moffatt & Son, Solicitors, 139 King St.,
Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: HENRI ROBERT SMITH. TAKE NOTICE
that JEAN FLORENCE SMITH has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2721 of 1962 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for two years and upwards. If you
wish to defend you may enter an answer in
the Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, by the 20th December, 1962,
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from A. J. P. HALL & HALL, Solicitors,
90 Pitt Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
"The Bulletin” Crossword No. 718
ACROSS
I—A banner to measure insects who scourge them-
selves? (11)
6—Thus you make a little money. (3)
8— The heart of 1-across is given to a thousand who
rounded 24-across. (8)
9 Anti-aircraft fire. (3-3)
11— Eau de Cologne? (5)
12— Doctor of Medicine first seen a year back is a
quadruped. (9)
13— Pug nailed badly when coming in to punch. (7, 2)
14— Intimidated firm got married. (5)
16 — Law official wanted about the
time the sun goes down. (5)
17— Somebody who can chirp,
twitter, whistle, caw, screech,
hoot, etc. (4, 5)
19 —Concerning a distorter losing
a week-end? (2, 1,6)
22 We nod for a change and be-
come possessed. (5)
23 Part of the vital Icelandic
type. (6)
24 Trumpet with a cloak? (4,
4)
26 A black spirit. (3)
27 — Admit half of 9-across now
on the shelf. (11)
DOWN
1— Desiccated female of the
mouth legbone’s relative. (7)
2— It’s in the concrete total. (9)
3 — Flora includes this broken
leg in Etna. (9)
4— Meadow. (3)
5— Foreign sugar could become
a curse. (5)
6— The ladder of operatic fame?
(5)
7— Uncle looked like atonal
music. (7)
10—Race poem, (anagram) (8)
12 —A fellow might be insulted by
this controlling authority at
Wentworth Park. (8)
14— See a low welfare place for
planes to land up Cloncurry
way. (9)
15— Robin’s mother? (9)
16 — A bounder and Menzies are
mouth legbone’s relative. (7)
18—See, a lair Gallicised this final
chord. (7)
20 — A profit encore! (5)
21— Heath heartens Americans.
(5)
25—A keynote fuss. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 717


v
am
%
1<%A
, 'J 4 :,»
4t* v/
: 1i* r
»A*/
* s3
* s
« r*
' -
m
4 \ } f
'■« '*"
•" -i
u>
■
:$®88
«« -- |jjp
MililSS 11
.^jiawr---
:
--•
The Jones drive a Volkswagen and
Volkswagens look alike from year to year.
A Volkswagen is never outmoded. In-
deed, no one knows how long a Volks-
wagen lasts; the first VWs made have not
worn out. We hear from VW owners who
have clocked astonishing mileage with-
out engine repair.
Most owners rarely see the engine. The
What Year Car Do The Jones Drive?
engine hood is open only when the car is
serviced and, incidentally, VW service is
as good as the car.
The Volkswagen does change where
it counts. A while back we added an anti-
sway bar to the front suspension to make
curves even smoother, new insulation
to deaden engine and roadway noise.
Most recently we changed the footbrake
leverage to make braking easier, better.
Over the years almost every part in
the Volkswagen has been changed (but
not its heart or face).
Volkswagen owners find
this a happy way to drive
and to live.
How about you?


BY APPOINTMENT TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
SCOTCtf WHISKY DISTILLERS JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD.
FOR THE SCOTCH WITH A CHARACTER ALL ITS OWN
as k for
“Johnnie Walker”
THE SCOTCH OF SCOTCH
I
r
v
Now in miniatures, 5 oz.
flasks, 13 oz. in flasks and
square bottles, and the pop-
ular 26 oz. square bottles.
BORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
