

The Bulletin
TglillHUl It! AUnhlud jur TnmjTnTTsion uy pirn m a newspaper.
JUNE 9 ONE SHILLING
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
SOEK&Kilie
FADING FATHER IMAGE jg§|j
* AUSTRALIA'S CATHOLICS left Wing, Right Wing, Split • ALAN .fti&Mii london
GEORGE McGANN'S NEW YORK NEWSLETTER • THAT CERTAIN BOOK David MdNits^^^^)Haugham


SHOWA DENKO K.K.
Main Products
Ferrochrome, other ferroalloys, electrolytic iron;
Aluminium ingots, alloys, wire bars;
Artificial graphite electrodes, other carbonaceous
products;
Fused alumina, silicon carbide, other abrasive grains;
Petrochemicals, other organic and inorganic chemicals;
Ammonium sulphate, urea and other chemical
fertilizers;
Reactor materials, including graphite and heavy water.
Products for progress
Serving industry and agriculture
around the world
'A.
&
./•JO
'••• /•..I'Wf.s
• '.'^VhO
•Site
K.-?
’ .7
-y
• *;
'C :-V
Write for further information; general catalogue will be sent upon request
SHOWA DENKO K.K.
34, Shiba Miyamoto-cho, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan
Cable Address: SECIC TOKYO


REAL WORLD OF SUZIE WONG P. 25
The Hong Kong refugees
Mr Menzies, Mr Supermac Alan
Reid’s As I See It, from London 6
Soekarno Fading Father Image 12
Happy Birthday-Suit—Problems of
a Nudist Colony 17
Stumps are Drawn—G & S is up-
to-date 19
The US—Big Trouble in the Maga-
zine Business 20
Mackay A Tropical Adelaide’s
Centenary 22
De Gaulle and Kennedy “Third
Force” v the “Grand Design” 26
Vietnam—New Plan for Old Woes 27
Asia—The New Colonialism 28
Catholics in Australia—Left-wing,
Right-wing, Split 29
Shipping—Private Enterprise Fights
Back 36
Dairy Produce—Problems in Asian
Exports 53
Braque at Eighty 57
That Certain Book David Mc-
Nicoll on Somerset Maugham 58
•
NATIONAL NOTEBOOK 4
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
OUT AND ABOUT 17
New York NEWSLETTER 20
AROUND MELBOURNE 24
OVERSEAS 25
FORUM 29
LETTERS 31
WILD CAT 34
SPECULATOR’S DIARY 52
MAN ON THE LAND 53
REVIEWS 55
RED PAGE 58
FEIFFER 63
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY LTD
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George St., Sydney
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521: Phone 27-5971
Melbourne: Phone MF 3341. Brisbane: Phone
82691. Adelaide: Phone W 4121-3
Vol. 84
No. 4295
MR CALWELL'S "RETHINK” POLICY
HHHE annual conferences of the Labor Party in Adelaide, Melbourne
and Sydney last weekend showed once again the hopeless weak-
ness of Mr Calwell’s leadership and showed it in a particularly ironical
way since it was all done in the name of “rethinking” the party’s policy.
Indeed, at first reading, Mr Calwell’s speech occasionally felt like a
welcome breath of fresh air. The Party Leader actually said, for example,
what most thinking Labor voters and nearly all overseas socialists have
been saying for years that the socialist parties have been too “slow to
realize that our society has changed”. You can’t win an election in the
1960’s with the slogans that had some meaning in the depression years
but have none now; you can’t win an election if you ignore the increas-
ing percentage of voters who have no personal bitter memories of the
depression, who have grown up in the prosperous years and feel com-
pletely indifferent to the class war and nationalisation slogans of the
party hacks. “What did we offer them in each election since 1949?’ Mr
Calwell asked, and answered that they offered stale policies that ignored
the “new ambitions, new hopes, new tastes, new desires” of the electorate.
“We cannot go along in the belief that the weapons we used to win past
battles are necessarily the best to win the battles of today.”
All this, while obvious in itself, was startling coming from Mr
Calwell. It suggested that he was at long last going to initiate a fact-
facing policy in the Labor Party. Yet what happened? No sooner were
the bold words out of his mouth than he departed from his speech to
ask the delegates at each conference not to discuss the Federal Par-
liamentary Party’s “Ban-the-Bomb” policy. In other words a policy
which, whatever way you look at it, is of the gravest importance to Aus-
tralia, was not to be discussed at all by the members of the alternative
governing party. The reason for this manoeuvre of course was to avoid
a situation in which the NSW and Victorian conferences would pass
opposing resolutions, with Victoria wanting to ban the bomb, but NSW
not wanting to announce to the world that any foreign aggressor can
have Australia for the asking.
TF this had happened the basic truth about the Labor Party today would
-““really have to be faced the fact that the Victorian Labor Party is little
less than a communist-front and that the Australian Labor Party as a
whole is rendered ineffectual by Mr Calwell’s determination to appease
the Victorians.
The one truth that the rethinking Mr. Calwell will not face a
truth that is at the bottom of all his troubles is the Victorian Labor
Party. The more he appeases it, the more it is determined not to change
its policies. Mugga, who reports the Melbourne conference in this
issue, points out the theme of the Victorian conference was that all the
States are out of step except Victoria and that the Victorian branch,
which was the only party not to win a new seat in the last Federal
election and which actually lost yet another seat in the last State elec-
tion, is the strongest Labor Party in Australia. The installation of Mr
Bob Holt as president means that the party will go on exactly as before,
with membership falling, votes dropping, branches folding, and sup-
porters being driven into the arms of the DLP.
Another issue that the fact-facing Mr Calwell decided not to face
was the DLP. In his new mood he has decided that the best way to face
this fact is to pretend that it is not there. Throughout his speech there
is not even one mention of the Party which is stopping the Labor Party
from regaining power.
Mr Calwell will have to raise the standard of his rethinking.


National
Notebook
Without Losing a Beat
/Conductor Charles Mackerras left the
Elizabethan Theatre Trust's opera
company in the middle of the Melbourne
season, flew to Europe when he conduc-
ted at the Prague String Festival, ‘‘Fidelio'’
and “The Marriage of Figaro” at the
East Berlin Opera House, and for one
concert at Bratislava, picked up his wife
in England and flew back for the opening
of the Sydney season, without one might
say, losing a beat.
In Sydney Mr Mackerras is on home
ground. He stays with his parents at
Turramurra and shoehorns himself into
his mother's tiny Fiat to get to the theatre
and back.
Mr Mackerras said that most British
musicians have now performed behind
the Iron Curtain, but he might have been
there more often than most.
“When I go back to East Berlin in Sep-
tember for ‘Rosenkavalier’ and ‘Don
Carlos’ it will be my third time there
this year,” he said. “I was offered a job
of permanent conductor there, but that is
a hard thing to think about. They are
finding it rather difficult to maintain their
high international reputation there now,
because they no longer get artists from
West Berlin.”
Mr Mackerras does not have a great
deal of difficulty with language, and, so
far, has not had to use an interpreter io
get his ideas across to the orchestra. “I
studied in Prague in 1947 so I can speak
Czech,” he said. “In Hungary I used
German and in Poland a combination of
Czech, which is very like Polish, and
German.”
Next year Mr Mackerras will go to
Russia for his first concert tour, and is
learning Russian in preparation. “My
wife or 1 tape-record the Russian lessons
which the BBC give, then I carry the tape-
recorder about with me and learn a bit
whenever I can, when I'm shaving, or at
any time like that,” he said. Were the
BBC lessons more satisfactory than other
recorded lessons? “Well, they're
cheaper,” Mr. Mackerras said. “When
I’ve learnt them, I just wipe off the tape
and record the next series.”
Mr Mackerras said that the political
situation in the East European countries
had made no difference to musical per-
formances, which maintained the high
standards which had belonged to these
countries. ‘‘Composition is another
matter,” he said, ‘‘because the authorities
have set ideas on what should be com-
posed and how it should be composed
and this may not agree with the com-
poser's ideas.
“Some of the music being composed
behind the Iron Curtain may seem to
Western ears old-fashioned. On the
other hand, a iot of the experimental
music being written in West Germany,
Britain and France would seem horrific
to the Communists, and I must say I
rather see their point of view.”
Mr Mackerras said he had read recent
criticisms in local papers of the Sydney
Opera House. He didn't know about
stage facilities; that wasn't his line of
territory. However, he did feel that
suggestions that the opera people were
very slow off the mark in engaging people
for the first season were justified.
"If it is to be in 1964 it certainly is
running very late now,” he said. Would
he want to return to his home city as per-
manent conductor at the opera house?—
if, of course, he were asked.
“I would think about it, provided the
contract held me for only six months of
the year," he said. “I don't think such a
contract has ever been given here. I think
Tzipine in Melbourne is held to seven or
eight months a year. But once you are
an international conductor you must stay
in the international field. Otherwise,
everything you have built up goes. And
although the winter season here coincides
with summer in Europe when tradition-
ally nothing is on, this isn't really the case
these days. There are more and more
summer festivals, and open-air concerts
and so on, so that there really isn't much
off-season at all.”
Best-dressed rooms
4 ll the best-dressed and best-known
people in Sydney were at David
Jones art gallery to look at the exhibition
of the town's 10 best-dressed rooms.
These were rooms designed by 10 interior
designers for well-known people, includ-
ing Dame Pattie Menzies, Anne Baxter,
Morris West and Googie Withers. The
Royal Blind Institution will benefit from
the exhibition.
So that the whole thing w-ould be free
from the taint of commercialism (al-
though a note on the programs says that
“anyone wishing to purchase any of the
items on display should enquire at the
entrance desk”) none of the designers
actually has any of the well-knowns' as
clients, although the designers did get
the permission of the designees.
Some of the designees lent personal
belongings, the small things which made
a house a home. Sir Garfield Barwick, for
whom Deric Deane designed a study lent
some law books, some Parliament House
notepaper and a framed certificate from
the College of Arms, setting forth the
armorial ensign of Sir Garfield Ernest
John Barwick. of Beecroft, in the state of
New South Wales, Australia.
Mr Joe Fearon, head here of Bruns-
wick-Chicago, makers of bowling equip-
ment, bought the Sir Garfield study as it
stood. It will be set up in Mr Fcaron’s
office in the new AMP building at the
Quay, minus the law books, the Parlia-
ment House notepaper. and minus, of
course, the armorial ensign of Sir Gar-
field Barwick.
History—Vacant Possession
HThe King’s School, Parr; matta, is
A gradually moving into its new build-
ings at Gowan Brae, leaving empty a
series of historic houses, the fate of
which is doubtful.
School boarders are still in Old Gov-
ernment House in Parramatta Park. This
building is rented annually by the school.
When the school leaves, Parramatta
Council will press the park trust, which
administers the building, to turn it into
a museum.
Kings will put Broughton House and
Macarthur House on the market. The
school has occupied Broughton House,
which was built in the 1830‘s by a mem-
ber of the Marsden family, since 1910,
and Macarthur House, which dates from
the 1850’s, since 1910. The school
hopes that whoever buys the properties
will preserve them, but if nobody with
an inclination to do so turns up, the
school will have to sell them anyway.
Hambledon cottage, where the gover-
ness to the Macarthur children lived, is
now open to the public. It was given
to Parramatta council by the American-
owned Whitehall Pharmacal Company,
which built its factory on only a small
portion of the land it bought. The
cottage is furnished in a mixture of
Victorian, Edwardian and pure suburban-
bungalow styles which might distress the
heart of the purist. However, the house
is in good order and no longer left to


the attentions of the local vandals.
The National Trust is carrying out
extensive renovations on Experiment
Farm, the cottage where James Ruse
lived, and expects to open it to the
public later in the year.
Outside the Seafood-
Cocktail Belt
1>ack from circumnavigating Australia
as The Bulletin’s representative
in a TAA Fokker, chartered by Associ-
ated Rural Industries to take a group of
businessmen, bankers, public servants,
agriculturists and journalists on a tour
of its investments across the north of
Australia, Peter Coleman reports that the
party rarely had occasion to leave the
seafood-cocktail belt.
This belt seems to run through most
parts of Australia these days and looks
like killing off the old steak-eggs-and-
lettuce tradition. It is most powerful,
of course, in the new pioneering regions
such as the Kimberley’s irrigation area
where, contrary to novelists’ fantasies,
airconditioning, refrigeration, septic
tanks, barbecues and all mod. cons, are
the standard thing.
The only exception was in the romantic
tropical Thursday Island. Set mag-
nificently in the Torres Strait this island
is surrounded by seas teeming with cray-
fish and abounds in tropical fruit. So
what were they served for lunch in one
of the pubs? Naturally it was a bit of
imported steak with veg. followed by
apple pie with custard.
A Blood-Red Eye
npHE great blood-red eye which domi-
A nates the cover design of the pro-
gramme for the Ninth Sydney Film
Festival became uncomfortably symbolic
before the festival’s opening long week-
end had run its course. With 126 films
on view (a few of them retained for the
later sessions in the Sydney Tech’s
Turner Hall) occupying six separate halls
within the University of Sydney, the
2000 subscribers had no hope of seeing
everything and were weak-kneed and
myopic before the three days were up
from the strain of bagging even a fair
average of sessions.
The festival, now nearly a decade
old, is grown so sleek and successful
that its old friends scarcely recognise it.
The festivals success and the Murray
Report gave it a new look. The festival
committee has co-operated with the Uni-
versity in buying posh new projection
and sound equipment; the University has
built new halls and lecture theatres.
The festival now employs a paid
director; most of the films turn up on
time, usually (but not always) subtitled
in the right language.
On top of this, the University’s Vice-
Chancellor, Professor S. H. Roberts,
dropped a strong hint that, legal opinion
assenting, the festival would be brought
under the terms of the £2 million Power
bequest for the aid and encouragement
of modern art.
Professor Roberts said that he felt the
festival should benefit from the bequest,
having become an integral part of the
cultural and artistic life of the University.
The Vice-Chancellor thought he had an
edge on the University’s finance com-
mittee —“I am so near to the retiring
age,” said he, “that should the finance
committee disagree with me I can always
say I am resigning in protest”.
Tanner
THE MOUSE THAT ROARED


This Australia
MR MENZIES AND
MR SUPERMAC
As I see it
FROM ALAN REID IN LONDON
HAROLD MACMILLAN
A lesson from the
lemmings
nP HERE i s
something
q U j te mySteri-
ous about the dedication with which the
Macmillan Conservative Government is
moving towards entry into the European
Common Market. The attitude is
reminiscent of those little lemmings that
for some unexplained reason periodically
start travelling and keep on travelling
until they reach the sea and fall into it
and drown. They do not know why they
are doing it but they do it. Menzies in
his dealings with the British Government
and its spokesmen has been impressed by
this phenomenon just as I have been in
talking with various British political
figures.
They cannot tell you except in the
broadest, haziest generalisations what
precise benefits Britain is going to get
from entry into ECM except a theoreti-
cally better access to a market with a
population already exceeding that of the
US and which will be larger than Russia’s
after Britain has joined. They admit that
once Britain is in ECM certain British
industries, including such giant ones as
shipbuilding, are going to the wall, driven
there by a Germany operating on more
modern techniques and otherwise better
equipped than British industry.
They cling valiantly to the belief that
the upsurge of activity in other British
industries, which they cannot specify,
will make up for the withdrawal of British
preferences which they are belatedly real-
ising may be withdrawn in Canada, Aus-
tralia and New Zealand. After a week’s
study of the situation (and a series of stiff
protests and warnings to key members of
the Macmillan Government over the
almost masochistic alacrity with which
Britain showed itself prepared to sacrifice
Commonwealth trade entry into Britain
hallowed by almost a century of practice),
Menzies expressed his puzzlement.
He could not see what economic
advantages Britain was seeking or, with
the way negotiations were proceeding,
the advantages they hoped to get from
entry into ECM. “It is all politics,
politics, politics with economic considera-
tion a bad last,” Menzies told his officials.
Actually the British attitude is making
his task of protecting Australia’s interests
an almost impossible one. Menzies,
Marshall of New Zealand and Drew of
Canada are in the position of doctors
who have on their hands a patient
determined to commit suicide for motives
completely unknown to the patient’s
medical advisers.
You can see the bewilderment this is
creating. Neither Dr Menzies, Dr
Marshall or Dr Drew know precisely
what the patient is suffering from. All
they know is what will happen to the
patient if he goes on the way he is and
that he will be out of their hands and
into those of the ECM Six before too
long. How the Six will treat him none
of the patient’s relatives nor the patient
himself seems sure. Significantly it is the
political rather than the economic
advantages that Britain hopes to get
from ECM entry that British ministers
emphasise in their private conversations
with puzzled, apprehensive Common-
wealth representatives.
“Whatever happens the ECM Six are
going to be a tremendously powerful
world political force,” is the British
theme. “If Britain joins the Six it will
be a grouping potentially stronger than
either the United States or Russia”.
Nostalgically their British minds seem to
revert to the days of their Imperial
greatness. “Within that grouping Britain
could supply the leadership and head a
united Europe that would overshadow
America and Russia.”
Again, significantly it is upon the poli-
tical factors in the actual ECM negotia-
tions upon which the British are concen-
trating their attention. De Gaulle has
been dubious about Britain entering ECM
to “give it leadership”. He has shown
himself prepared to give it all the leader-
ship it wants. The Six agree to a proposi-
tion that will wipe out a minimum of
£100,000,000 Commonwealth trade in
manufactured goods with Britain.
Hurrah. Nobody in the British Govern-
ment seems to give a damn about the fact
that £100,000,000 is to be wiped out by
1970. (The Canadians say that the
British are faking the statistics and that
they alone will lose nearer to
£200,000,000 than the £70,000,000 the
British state as their share of the loss).
The fact that France along with the
other five ECM countries have accepted
this proposal is a triumph for British
diplomacy. It shows that de Gaulle is
prepared to receive Britain into ECM.
That Britain is being received into ECM
on de Gaulle’s terms and that Common-
wealth interests are being ignored doesn’t
really matter, old boy.
What is good for Britain is good for the
Commonwealth. (A very high-ranking
British official, highly influential in the
present negotiations, used those actual
words to me).
You can see Menzies’ ire mounting
daily. London has no glamor for him at
this particular moment of time. He is not
in a place but a situation that calls for
hard slogging politics and like the old
political dog he is he is going in for hard
slogging politics. He got stuck into Mac-
millan Australian style over the agree-
ment between Britain and the Six, which
allows Commonwealth manufactured
imports into Britain to the full external
ECM tariff by 1970 which must wipe
them out.
He went over the top of Macmillan’s
NEXT WEEK'S ISSUE
• FILM CENSORSHIP—Chang-
ing Tastes and Morals (cover
story).
• AUSTRALIA Colonialism,
Nationalism in our Literature.
• ALAN REID As I see it,
from London.
• THAT CERTAIN BOOK
Harry Messel on a Canadian
Boyhood.


silky explanation that the agreement was
not really an agreement but purely a
tentative suggestion that still required
official endorsement like a Bondi tram.
He told Macmillan in effect not to double-
talk. If he, Macmillan, thought he was
going to get him to sit down at the Com-
monwealth Prime Ministers’ conference
in September to rubberstamp tamely a
fait accompli he, Macmillan, had better
do a bit of rethinking. He reminded Mac-
millan that Britain had more than a few
bawbees at stake in Australian preferences
and that Britain would be well advised to
realise that Commonwealth trade was a
two-way street and not the “what’s good
for Britain is good for the Common-
wealthwealth” nonsense on which British
officialdom seemed to be pinning its faith.
The measure of Menzies’ resentment is
that he is now working quite openly to
establish a common front with New Zea-
land and Canada.
And this despite earlier Australian
opinion that it might prove disadvantag-
ous to Australia’s cause if there was any
suggestion that the various Common-
wealth countries were “ganging up”
against Britain. Menzies’ view was that
there should be no “ganging up” while
Britain was doing the right thing,
The present “ganging up” is the pro-
duct of his belief that Britain is not
only doing the wrong thing about the
Commonwealth’s interests but the wrong
thing for its own. The Macmillan Gov-
ernment is apprehensively waiting to see
if he expresses this view publicly. If
he does, with the Macmillan Government
in a shaky electorate position after a
succession of by-election reverses, his
action could wreck the Macmillan Gov-
ernment’s prospects of getting Britain
into ECM and surviving politically. Will
Menzies take that extreme step? This is
the question that is intriguing the poli-
tically minded in London this fascinating,
historic week.
DEVELOPMENT
PLAIN TALK FROM
MR HOLT
HAROLD HOLT
Bluntly but politely
FROM JOHN HIGGINS IN QUEENSLAND
C'ederal Treasurer Harold Holt
A earned his best-ever “hear hear”
from the Queensland electorate last week
with his key-note address to a top-level
developmeatal symposium.
“It is better to face realistically the
hard fact that there is a limit to the re-
sources of governments than to go along
blindly depending on grandiose schemes
which depend for their fulfilment entirely
or very largely on Government financial
assistance,” he said. And he went on
to point out bluntly but politely that
Queensland would have a look at its
system of land tenure, for instance, if it
really wanted to encourage development.
Only the day before Mr Holt’s address
to more than 200 of the State’s top busi-
nessmen, Country Party Premier Frank
Nicklin had drawn an ovation from the
Party’s annual convention at the Gold
Coast with the announcement of still one
more “grandoise scheme” depending
entirely for its fulfilment on Federal
finance. This is the Fitzroy Basin develop-
mental scheme which the Nicklin-Morris
Government wants Canberra to finance
through the State Agricultural Bank!
Mr Holt has laid an unerring finger
on one of the State’s major running sores
—its system of land tenure —and pointed
accurately to the solution. The sad facts
of life, as far as the State’s land policy
is concerned, are that few big men or
big companies are prepared to spend big
money in Queensland because of its sys-
tem of terminable leases.
The State Government is the largest
land-holder in the world outside the Soviet
bloc. It owns no less than 85.6 per cent,
of its total area of 667,000 sq. miles and
has 294 million acres tied up in pastoral
leases alone. Alienation or freeholding of
land was abruptedly halted in 1916 with
the advent of a Labor Government. Up to
that date, 25 million acres had been
alienated. Since then only another three
million acres have been freeholded, and
then only in small parcels.
There is some perpetual lease, but the
bulk of the Crown-owned land is on ter-
minable lease. This system has left
Queensland with a lot of uneasy Crown
tenants: They have not got the security
of tenure, borrowing strength, or the
advantages of unearned increment which
freeholders enjoy. They also face regular
rental adjustments, and sub-division at the
end of lease periods with little if any
regard to improvements.
For major terminable leases facing
almost certain sub-division there is a
natural enough tendency on the part of
the lessees to “flog” their leases over the
concluding years—certainly to refrain
from developmental work.
Nowhere has the terminable lease
system shown to greater disadvantage
than in the State’s undeveloped 15 million
acre brigalow belt. This belt can only be
brought to production by men or com-
panies with big money, because in most
instances the developmental costs are two
or three times that of the land itself. No
one in their senses would contemplate
major brigalow belt development with-
out security of tenure —almost certainly
freehold.
Reintroduction of freeholding to
Queensland would see huge sums of
money pouring into the Treasury; State
land administration expenses would be
enormously reduced, and food production
would somersault. New areas of the State
would be opened for rapid development,
and closer settlement would walk hand-
in-hand behind it as it has done every-
where else in the world outside the Soviet
bloc.
Top Queensland pastoralist and indus-
trialist Charles Russell for years has been
pleading this case desperately, but is as far
away from convincing a Country Party-
dominated Government as he was from
convincing Labor. Mr Holt’s surprise
backing, however, must make many
Russell critics begin some serious soul
searching.
Like their predecessors, the Country
Party in Queensland seems obsessed by
the socialist clap trap that the land is the
heritage of the people. The Nicklin-
Morris Government also appears to share
Labor’s suspicion and distrust of land-
holders, particularly successful land-
holders. The “one man, one farm” men-
tality is still dominant in George Street
thinking today, and some of the biggest
companies and graziers in the State are
frankly terrified of the Lands Department
and the Government. Until there is a
dramatic change of heart, Queensland, as
Mr Holt has indicated, will not get its
share of overseas capital or Australian
capital investment.
Federal policy is unquestionably
opposed to financing little men on to little
blocks of ground, when it can be shown
that private enterprise would do the job
for them, better and more rapidly. The
“God - helps - those - who - help - them-
selves” type of advice given by Mr Holt
is the medicine Queensland badly needs.
Whether it will be taken by the patient or
not, however, is a different matter. Private
enterprise is not particularly popular in
Queensland today.


ARBITRATION
NO ACTION FOR
THE UNIONS
ALBERT MONK
Frustrated...
FROM J. C. HORSFALL IN MELBOURNE
Tt is natural that the ACTU should feel
frustrated at the Arbitration Com-
mission’s wish to ponder further over the
pros and cons of granting three weeks’
holidays with pay and to delay its deci-
sion on the case for another nine months
or so. As with the deferred cost of living
adjustments, the unions would like to
see some action rather than just the
establishment of the principle. A few
more postponements and these issues
could join worthy causes like equal pay
for women and decimal currency in the
list of leading timeless economic targets
of the day. Mr Monk, the ACTU’s
President, will no doubt be considering
what action, if any, he can take now.
While the move to get extra holidays
has always been in the minds of the
unions, like the question of shorter hours,
it was bound to take on greater signifi-
cance in the light of the Arbitration
Commission’s revised views on the timing
of full-scale wage cases in which exhaus-
tive consideration would be given to the
capacity to pay.
With the longer intervals now set be-
tween full-dress basic wage cases and
with the Commission appearing to vacil-
late over cost-of-living adjustments, the
unions were to be expected to try the
back door to the Commission, conceiv-
ably not fully appreciating that any deci-
sion to grant extra holidays involves con-
sideration of capacity to pay equally as
much as do decisions on the level of the
basic wage itself.
It would have been very clever to have
got from the Commission in terms of a
paid week’s leisure what there is no
question of getting from it in terms of a
higher wage at the present juncture,
Though on the obtuse argument that the
extra week’s holiday for everybody would
help to spread the available work round,
there’s just a snadow ot a case for it
given the present level of unemployment.
In the event, failing a cost of living
adjustment early next year, the only hope
of wage increases until the basic wage
case lies with individual employers who
may see in any increases in profitability
a means by which to give extra rewards
to workers as well as to shareholders (not
that this line has been suggested by the
Commission).
But one can see just why the Commis-
sion is in no hurry to implement either
of the two principles it has established in
the last few months. With prices stable,
cost-of-living adjustments would have
very little effect on wages at present.
Again if it grants the extra week’s
holiday the Commission knows that just
as in the case of equal pay with women,
there is no going back on it should the
economy get into a slump. The Com-
mission wants to be sure that this is
something the country will be able to
carry through thick and thin. Indeed
with employers needing every induce-
ment to increase output and so raise
the national level of employment just
now, it is perhaps not the most appro-
priate time to order them to pay for an
additional workless week.
Against this employees can say with
much justification that if the Arbitration
Commission is only to delay the final
consideration of its decision until next
March it could easily be that the econo-
mic indicators on which it lays much
store these days will be dragging their
feet by then whereas now they are all
moving nicely forward.
In that case the Commission could find
equally plausible grounds for again refus-
ing to give the extra week.
While the Commission may be per-
fectly right in thinking that the economy
could get a nasty jolt by Britain joining
the Common Market, this is an impon-
derable whose effect on the capacity to
pay wages and give holidays here can
only be considered hypothetically at the
moment.
The unions were perhaps unlucky to
find the Commission in a particularly
pondering frame of mind in this case
looking deeply without coming to any
firm conclusions into the likely effects of
the economic changes in Europe on capi-
tal inflow and internal capital generation
as well as the rate of growth, migration
and so on. The Commission has prob-
ably found, like many others who have
tried it, that the more one dwells on the
possibilities in these directions the thicker
the fog seems to get. So the unions could
justifiably doubt whether the fog will
have cleared by next March or that the
Commission is any more ready than it |
was last week to give a satisfactory
answer to their increased leisure claims.
CAPITAL PUNISHMENT
bulletin
June 10, 1882
A t an inquest lately held in Bathurst
on a man accidentally shot, the
jury added a rider to their verdict,
recommending that the gun be forth-
with destroyed! A bull or horse
which kills a man is allowed to live,
but this rabid shooting iron, which
any humanitarian might have tamed,
is doomed to destruction. Isn’t it
high time that the educational and
intellectual standard of jurymen of
all kinds was relaxed and lowered a
little?
★ ★ ★
tT?HE Forbes brass band played the
Dead March at a funeral. The
corpse turned over and tried to get
out.
★ ★ ★
Scores of sly grop-shops are spring-
ing up all over the city and sub-
urbs. A drink, if not obtainable at
a hotel after 11 p.m., can be readily
procured next door.
★ ★ ★
A Townsville editor regrets that
“we cannot boast of having any
aboriginals on our list of subscribers”.
Presumably, then, all the blackfellows
about Townsville have been used up
on the literary staff of the paper.
★ ★ ★
A paste-and-scissors article in the
PRESBYTERIAN states that
“when the artistic efforts of the choir,
or the cunning skill of the organist,
divert the mind from thoughts of God*
the music becomes a snare”. There
are no snares in the churches of this
city.


STRIKE TALK?
THE FRIGHTENED COMMISSIONER
FROM OUR HOBART CORRESPONDENT
A week after the event, Tasmania’s
Police Minister, Mr H. J. Mc-
Loughlin, still felt like the man who went
to court to give evidence and found him-
self in dock with the jury foreman
saying, “Guilty”. McLoughlin had light-
heartedly taken 20 minutes off from
a Cabinet meeting to hurry around the
corner to open the biennial conference
of the Tasmanian Police Association,
arriving with a few appropriately
pleasant platitudes on his tongue, only to
find that the frankly hostile policemen
were assembled to talk to him, not to
listen.
Mr McLoughlin had apparently not
realised that the association traditionally
regards its conference as the one occasion
on which it has the Minister on toast.
He may be forgiven this ignorance, as
he is new to politics (first ele-cted 1959).
He has been Minister for Police for only
six months, and has had little leisure to
study the form, being well laden with the
cares of two other thorny portfolios
Transport and Licensing. But how can
one explain his unawareness of the
Police Association’s hostility to its new
award? He was plainly warned a week
before when the teachers angrily con-
demned the determination handed down
to them by the newly constituted Public
Service Tribunal. It was highly unlikely
that the police would be any happier than
the teachers and they had talked
strike.
Inspector C. F. Hills, the Association
President, rushed the bewildered Mc-
Loughlin as soon as he reached the
conference room. The Public Service
Tribunal, said Hills, was “a Frankenstein
monster, already completely out of con-
trol”. The Police Association had con-
sulted many authorities throughout Aus-
tralia when preparing its log of claims,
but the award bore no resemblance to
what they had sought. The 28 years of
Labor government in Tasmania, he said,
had generally been marked by progres-
sive thinking, “but there has been a
lack of progressive thinking and a lack
of realism in wage and condition fixing
for public servants”.
“This,” Hills continued darkly, “could
well cause the Government’s defeat at
the next election.” Certainly his mem-
bers were fed up. Whereas public ser-
vants generally worked a 37i-hour week
and got three weeks’ annual leave in
addition to all statutory holidays, Tas-
manian policemen received only 20
working days’ holiday a year. NSW
police enjoyed 35 days’ annual leave and
Victorians got 32 days.
The old hands knew that Mr
McLoughlin had one ace. A Parliamen-
tary select committee is at present en-
gaged on a very comprehensive probe
into the functions, efficiency and organi-
sation of the police, and it would have
been appropriate for the Minister to
protest that while these investigations
were being carried out he could not
comment on many of the points raised.
However, Mr McLoughlin didn’t even
mention the select committee. “There’s
no more frightened man in Hobart than
I am at present,” he said half-seriously.
“I am too inexperienced or perhaps too
canny to make any promises this morn-
ing,” he lamely added.
Premier always quick to come
to the aid of his cornered Ministers, next
day replied tersely to Inspector Hills’
attack. The Government, he said, had
set up the tribunal, but it exercised no
control over it. Calmly ignoring the fact
that neither he nor his predecessors had
ever reprimanded public servants for
indulging the popularity-winning trick of
lavishly praising the administration, Mr
Reece spoke sternly to his critic. “I very
much regret that Inspector Hills has dis-
carded civil service tradition and discre-
tion in favor of the type of peculiar
assessment he has made of future
political possibilities,” he said. “I am at
a complete loss to understand what he
considers can be gained by his unusual
comment.” Commented a Police Asso-
ciation official: “But what does Hills
stand to lose?”
W.A.
COUNTRY PARTY AGAINST LIBERALS
FROM OUR CORRESPONDENT IN WESTERN AUSTRALIA
!ThiE resignation of veteran West Aus-
tralian politician Sir Ross McLarty
from his Murray seat has thrown the
parties into a tizzy and brought forth
some rude words from the Opposition
about hasty by-elections. Though Murray
seems certain to go to the Government
and enable it to retain its two-seat lead
in the Legislative Assembly, there are
some indications that when the poll is
held in a fortnight’s time it may bring
some surprise.
Sir Ross, who has been in Parliament
since 1930 and was WA premier from
1947 to 1953, held the seat unopposed
for many years. In the general elections
last March he was opposed by an Inde-
pendent, F. H. Crockenburg, who sur-
prised Sir Ross by polling 1,519 votes
about 30 per cent, of the votes cast. The
Labor Party has seen its chance and
has taken Mr Crockenburg into its fold
as an endorsed ALP candidate, appar-
ently breaking its own rules about con-
tinuity of membership before endorse-
ment. The Liberals have put North
Dandalup dairy farmer Ewart Runciman,
a Farmers’ Union stalwart, and the
Country Party has stood Pinjarra busi-
nessman, M. J. Harris.
Murray is a near metropolitan elec-
torate, taking in the whole milk-dairying
districts and the timber town of Dwell-
ingup. Though it is not as urban in char-
acter as Darling Range, where the ALP
led on the primary count, there are in-
dications that Mr Crockenburg could
improve his figures as an endorsed ALP
candidate. However, the Liberals and the
Country Party are certain to exchange
preferences, making sure that Mr Crock-
enburg does not get home even if he leads
the primary count.
The big question will be whether the
Country Party can take the seat from
the Liberals, thus increasing its slender
numbers in the House. At present, it
has eight members and could have nine
if Country Party candidate Ray Owen
wins his court protest against the declar-
ation of the Darling Range seat to Lib-
eral Kenneth Dunn. Dunn and Owen
were dead-level on a recount, but the
State Electoral Department admitted
some postal votes and gave the seat to
Dunn. If the CP finally wins Murray
as well as Darling Range it would have
10 seats and be in a much stronger
position to dictate to the Liberal Party
on Government policy.
The Labor Party got in first in the
campaign with a protest at the timing
ot the by-election. Labor spokesman
S. E. I. Johnson said the Liberals were
staging the election with a minimum of
notice to the public and a minimum of
opportunity to other political parties to
select candidates or prepare a campaign.
The rush was unnecessary because Parlia-
ment did not re-assemble until five weeks
after the by-election date. If there had
to be a fresh election in Darling Range
the two could have been held on the
same day. The Government has so far
not answered Mr Johnson’s argument.
Though Murray will probably stay
in the hands of the Government it could
prove a turbulent by-election.


ALP CONFERENCE—(1) VICTORIA
ALL OUT OF STEP BUT.
ALBERT McNOLTY
Strongest in Australia
From MUGGA
HPhe theme of the Victorian ALP
A conference was simple enough:
Victoria is not out of step with the rest
of the party the other States are out
of step with Victoria. Keeping a straight
face, Vice-President Bob Brebner coolly
assured delegates that the Victorian
branch was the strongest ALP branch in
Australia, while Treasurer Albert Mc-
Nolty told them that the Victorian execut-
ive was the only one which had carried
out the party’s platform according to the
book of rules.
This breath-taking braggadocio was
spiced with attacks on other State
branches and on the party’s Federal
officials. Mr Brebner claimed that at the
time of the 1955 split, the other States
had merely skimmed the surface, leav-
ing “the groupers” intact underneath
“particularly NSW”. Mr McNolty attack-
ed two Federal Executive members by
name the president, Mr Colbourne,
and one of the South Australian
representatives, Mr Don Dunstan. Mr
Brebner, himself a Federal Executive
member, did have a kind word for the
Queensland members. He said they were
the only ones who had consistently sup-
ported Victoria. This came as a sur-
prise, since it has been widely believed
that Western Australia had been the
main ally of the Victorian regime. How-
ever, rather sorrowfully, Mr Brebner
revealed that W.A.’s backing had not
always been 100 per cent.
Small wonder, then, that Mr Calwell
threw heavy stress on the need for unity
when he addressed the conference. He
warned that the ALP “has always pos-
sessed a certain tendency to fragment-
ation” and referred to those who would
bring the party down for the sake of
“their own personal egotism and petty
ambitions”. The latter remark was
probably directed at both the executive
and its more vocal critics; with the Prime
Ministers lodge only one seat away,
Mr Calwell lives in dread of a further
split arising from the Victorian situation.
Fie is in no mood to grasp nettles.
For all that, the opposition to the
executive was bolder than at any con-
ference since the split. The suburban
branches tabled several resolutions at-
tacking unity tickets and wanting a
greater say in choice of parliamentary
candidates, ever to the extent of asking
for a return of pre-selection ballots. Two
or three years ago the atmosphere was
such that both subjects were taboo.
From the floor of the conference, Mr
M. Ashkenasy assailed the executive’s
report on plans for handling a snap
Federal election. He reminded it that
the Federal election had been lost in Vic-
toria and that it had been held at a time
when the situation was as favourable a
one as the ALP could ever hope for.
“Threatened governments live long,” he
pointed out in refuting the idea that the
Menzies Government might collapse any
day. The next election would be held
just when the Government wanted it,
presumably when it had artificially stim-
ulated the economy. He charged the
executive with complacency and said
that the Victorian ALP needed to take
a good look at itself
He was heckled as a “grouper” and
the same fate befell others who voiced
opposition to executive ideas. Senator
Fat Kennelly was equated with “the
groupers”, the daily press, and Mr
Santamaria when he told conference that
there was no room for two labor papers
running in opposition to each other. He
was referring to the action of the “Trade
Union Defence Committee” in producing
the monthly “Scope” in rivalry to the
ALP fortnightly “Fact”. A spokesman
for “Scope” defiantly made it clear that
the paper would continue, irrespective of
its effect on the ALP paper. Spokesmen
for the executive made it clear that they
were either unwilling or unable to deal
with Scope”, though it was admitted
that it was harming “Fact”. When Mr
Barry Jones complained that the ALP
rank - and - file had to read Sydney
magazines to learn of the resignation
of two “Fact ’ editors, he was told that
ii was none of the rank-and-file’s busi-
ness. “Fact” was produced by a private
company and matters concerning the
resignation of editors were the concern
of its shareholders, but not ALP
members.
The executive did, however, meet with
one rebuff. Early in the conference it
was resolved to admit the press in the
usual way, but with the exception of
Mr John Larkin, Trades Hall roundsman
for “The Age”. Mr Larkin, 23, is an
able journalist who has frequently got
under the skins of the ALP executive by
his nose for news. He was banned from
the ALP precincts last year after he had
revealed that one of the party’s candid-
ates in the federal elections had pulled
out in protest against the Victorian
branch’s refusal to implement the ban
on unity tickets. His paper refused to
withdraw him from the round and event-
ually the ALP executive had to back
down.
“The Age” again stood by him when
the conference ban was imposed and
notified the executive that it would
discuss any complaints about his report-
ing, but only if he were re-admitted to
conference. On Saturday morning, the
executive officers reported the paper’s
proposal and recommended that it be
agreed to. Conference, however, reject-
ed the motion.
The executive, having mounted the
tiger, had been unable to get off. The
press is a newdy-discovered scapegoat for
the failures of the Victorian ALP, reliev-
ing the monotony of everything being,
due to Mr Santamaria and Archbishop I
Mannix. In the executive report, there
is something of an obsession about news-
papers and leaks to newspapers. Al-
together there are references to the press
in more than twenty-five places, many of
them in terms suggesting that newspapers
are a form of black magic. On top of
this, the pre-conference issue of “Fact”
the first produced by Messrs Cyril
Wyndham and Ernest Platz devoted a
large amount of space to attacks on the
press, in particular “The Age”. To cap
it all, Mr McNolty made a rousing
speech reviling newspapers and journal-
ists in supporting the ban on Mr Larkin,
It was too much to expect the confer-
ence to reverse its decision less than
sixteen hours later. Mr Larkin remain-
ed outside the conference and “The
Age” remained adamant that it would
not replace him. It managed, never-
theless, to cover the conference compar-
ably as well as its morning rival which |
is perhaps a tribute to Mr Larkin’s abil-j
ity to find “leaks” even amidst the pre-
judice which has been created.
Meanwhile there was fun and games
with the DLP Conference. Mugga
reports:
The phrase “tragic split” belongs to
the North Melbourne Town Hall, where
the Victorian Branch of the DLP is hold-
ing its annual conference, and not to
the Trades Hall where the ALP is meet-
ing. Here the equivalent expression
would be “glorious split”.
What are the chances of reunification?
At the Victorian ALP conference it i s


scarcely an issue. Critics of the ex-
ecutive are often charged with wanting
to “do a deal with the DLP” but there
is no evidence of any significant thinking
in this direction; it is part of the mud of
politics. There is no overt reunification
talk in the ALP and probably none
beneath the surface either.
Yet it pervades the DLP in a strange
way, wildly impracticable though it may
be. There are some who envisage the
DLP ultimately growing into a major
third party, on the lines of the European
Christian Democrat parties, but they
are a minority. For the rest, somewhere
in the future there is reunification. It
is nebulous, but it is an inseparable part
of the DLP outlook.
That is why in the North Melbourne
Town Hall everybody knew about the
funeral last week of Mrs Sara Maria
Scullin, widow of Labor Prime Minister
James Scullin. The late Mrs Scullin
died aged 80, and her pall-bearers were
Arthur Calwell, Frank Carey (retiring
ALP President), Senator Frank Mc-
Manus and Stan Keon.
ALP CONFERENCE—(2) NSW
MR CALWELL'S
THREE-STATE TRICK
ARTHUR CALWELL
Don’t discuss peace
FROM PETER KELLY IN SYDNEY
HPhe New South Wales annual ALP con-
ference held last week-end largely
avoided the expected clash between the
Right and Left wings. And it was the
Federal leader, Mr A. A. Calwell, who
was mainly responsible.
Departing from his typed speech, Mr
Calwell gently explained to the 700-odd
delegates assembled in Sydney’s Town
Hall on Saturday night that he had asked
the South Australian branch, the Vic-
torian branch, and now “this branch” not
to discuss those issues relating to nuclear
disarmament and they had heeded him.
Mr Calwell told the disappointed dele-
gates that the Parliamentary Executive
had thoroughly discussed it and had
referred it to the Federal Executive meet-
ing planned for July 2. Blandly he said
that it was a complex issue, and it
needed a much more thorough discus-
sion than the one or two hours that “this
Conference” could give it.
This was almost certainly the first time
in ALP history that a Federal leader
had been so open in “killing” an issue
which threatens to disrupt the Labor
party. What Mr Calwell avoided during
the week-end was discussion of the Vic-
torian ALP conference’s adoption of one
policy on “peace” and the New South
Wales conference’s adoption of a totally
different one. (Victoria did in fact on the
Monday follow Communist Party “Peace”
policy and ignored Calwell’s request not
to discuss the issue.) NSW would have
been in favor of “Peace” but almost cer-
tainly not unilateral disarmament. As
it happened, the only one taken in by
Calwell’s plea was NSW.
In NSW there was almost a palace
revolution led by the State Assistant Sec-
retary, Mr A. Mulvihill. In preparation
for the expected conference explosion on
“Peace” he had drafted a long and care-
fully worded conference statement on
Nuclear Disarmament and World Peace
which among other things said: We
reject the principle of unilateral disarma-
ment as being impractical, since we con-
sider that distrust between the major
powers can only be reduced by gradual
disarmament of both nuclear and con-
ventional type weapons subject to unfet-
tered United Nations’ Supervision.” (The
Bulletin managed to retrieve a dis-
carded copy from a waste-paper basket.)
Other executive members were also
chafing at the bit on the “Peace”
issue and it is common knowledge among
delegates that an assurance given by the
State Secretary, Mr W. R. Colbourne, that
he and the State President, Mr C. T.
Oliver, would vote “along the right line”
at the July Federal Executive meeting
squashed the revolution.
Even so, the so-called Left-wing at-
tempted to raise the issue on Monday but
were squashed by Mr Colbourne’s inter-
vention. Repeating Mr Calwell’s three-
State trick, Mr Colbourne told dele-
gates: “A national overall policy is needed
on such questions as nuclear weapons,
boundaries, barriers and racial differ-
ences. If you are not satisfied after the
Federal Executive makes its declarations,
the matter can come before a Federal
Conference.” In view of the fact that
only six of the 700-odd delegates could
possibly attend a Federal conference this
rather irrelevant statement seemed to
satisfy the delegates.
What further frustrated delegates
anxious to “have a go” on the “Peace”
issue was that this was the second time in
recent weeks when nuclear disarmament
discussion has been stifled. At a recent
Trades and Labor Council meeting the
Secretary, Mr J. Kenny, put up a “Peace”
resolution which was carried without dis-
cussion being allowed by the President
Mr N. Thom. One possible reason for
the ban on discussion was that the person
who assisted Mr Kenny in drafting the
resolution was the Secretary of the Sheet
Metal Workers’ Union, Mr T. Wright—
a Communist.
The shadow of the ALP split, which
hangs over all Labor Party Conferences,
brought the Left and Right into a clash
on the Monday afternoon when ex-mem-
bers’ applications for membership came
up for discussion. The Appeals Com-
mittee, which considers the applications
and makes recommendations to the full
Conference, brought in a motion that only
two out of the six people expelled in the
Reid electorate of Mr T. Uren, should
be re-admitted to the Party. Mr M. P.
MeCarney, • the Secretary of the Vehicle
Builders’ Union, moved that all six be
re-admitted. (MeCarney is generally con-
ceded to be the re-emerging leader of the
Right in NSW.)
All of these members had worked for
ex MP Mr C. Morgan during the Labor
split when he lost ALP endorsement.
During the last election, the six members
had worked for ALP candidates —but not
Mr Uren. Apart from old sores, the
members apparently found Mr Uren’s
general image of unity ticket supporter,
strong admiration for the Castro regime,
unilateral disarmer, and his visit to a
Communist “Peace”-front conference in
Japan, a little hard to take. In the very
brief but bitter clash over this question
the Right wing went down by 13 votes,
277 to 264. But the interesting point
about this was that this was the first time
the Right had fought openly on an issue
during the whole of the Conference.
All in all the conference largely dis-
cussed settled issues and the way in which
the ALP officers and the executive skirted
around topics to avoid embarrassing the
Labor Government had to be seen to be
believed. But it is a safe bet that although
the “Peace” and foreign affairs questions
were “killed” at conference it won’t be
long before they cause some hot discus-
sion at State Executive meetings.


SOEKARNO
FADING
FATHER
IMAGE
At 67, the man whose voice
"rolls like thunder",
presides over the
economic collapse
of a nation.
Confident predictions of disaster
for the Indonesian economy and
State have been made so often in
the past few years it is hard to realise
just how far and fast Indonesia has gone
down the drain in the last six months.
To date disaster has been staved off by
repeated pawning of the nation’s huge
natural wealth and by the silent sacri-
fices of its patient, exploited 96,000,000
people.
By tightening their belts yet another
notch and substituting for their hunger
and frustration the spurious, shoddy
emotional issue of West New Guinea,
Indonesia’s people may put up for quite
a while yet with ever decreasing living
standards. While Indonesia confidently
asserts that when West Irian is returned
it will flood the territory with teachers,
doctors, nurses and agriculturalists it can
scarcely manage its own economy on a
day to day basis.
Last year Indonesia’s foreign ex-
change fell from round about £150,000,-
000 to £5,000,000. At the end of 1960
Indonesia had an external debt of about
£90,000,000. It is now about £380,000,-
000. Food is in short supply and there
have been demonstrations over shortages
of rice, sugar, corn, clothing, cooking
oil and kerosene. 700,000 tons of rice
had to be imported from Thailand and
Burma last year and paid for in precious
hard currency. Agreements between In-
donesia and rubber and oil companies
over urgently needed future exploita-
tion hang fire and Prime Minister
Djuanda has warned that 1962 is going
to be a much tougher year than 1961.
Hard currency fetches huge black
market prices in Djakarta today and ex-
By "NUSANTARA"
cept for foreign aid nearly £1,000,-
000,000 since 1950 and nearly 30 per
cent, of it from the Soviet bloc the
economy would finally slip over the edge
tomorrow. But somehow it manages to
keep going and by one desperate device
or another mainly by going without
Indonesia has managed to acquire a
formidable Air Force, a Sverdlovsk class
15,000 ton cruiser from the U.S.S.R.,
about 8 destroyers, MT boats, gunboats,
patrol boats, sub chasers and an addi-
tional four submarines making a total
of six. And now Russian missile firing
jet T.U. 16 s are being flown to Indonesia
via Rangoon. But the price for this
shabby national prestige is an excessively
high one.
Presiding over this picture of chaos
and decay is Indonesia’s President,
Achmed Soekarno, the failing giant, the
fading father image. Perhaps seldom in
one man has there been such an un-
lucky combination of charm, intelligence,
personal magnetism, ruthlessness and
sheer fecklessness. Not even Bung
(Brother) Karno’s charismatic quality as
a national leader, his hypnotic oratory
which produces frenzied Merdekas! from
thousands of throats at mass meetings,
his film star smile can disguise the near
fatal illness from which both state and
economy suffer.
He is responsible for so much. In a
sense he has made and destroyed his
own country. If he was the one indis-
pensable man for uniting Indonesia he
has done as much to splinter and frag-
ment it. He is primarily responsible for
the maddening, bewildering multiplicity
of political parties, for the rapid increase
in Communist influence, for stalemating
the Army and other conservative ele-
ments, for Governmental inefficiency
and large scale corruption.
His greatest disability has been his
fundamental disability to grapple with


the real and urgent wants and needs of
his widely separated nation and his des-
tructive jealousy of those who could.
Give or take a couple of years Soe-
karno is probably 61 a reasonably
ripe age for an Indonesian and especially
for one who has led a hectic and largely
self indulgent life. He is a handsome
man, a couple of inches taller than the
average Indonesian which gives him a
certain eclat among his countrymen and
may have had something to do with his
overweening self - confidence. Despite
chronic trouble with a kidney stone and
pessimistic warnings that his over indul-
gence in sex drugs will sooner or later
kill him he seems, if anything, in better
health than he has been for some time.
At all events he seems to have lost
none of his characteristic vitality, his
energy and his capacity to charm large
mobs by his unexcelled oratory although
there are more and more reports that his
audiences are no longer so captive as
they used to be.
An Air of Mystery
But demagogy has been his main suit
and still is. He once complained to the
Dutch in the bad old days that they
should discipline a political party that he
had himself founded for subversive pur-
poses because it got carried away “by
my voice which rolls like thunder.”
The voice that rolls like thunder ut-
tered its first cry in Surabaya. His father
was Javanese and a schoolteacher. His
mother was Balinese. In 1956 Soekarno
publicly renounced the hereditary title
of Raden. It was an easy thing to re-
nounce. In the first place it was prob-
ably a piece of uwarranted swank. In
the second it was not a title of very great
distinction.
It is typical of the air of mystery and
secrecy which surrounds the biographi-
cal details of most of Indonesia’s top
leaders that he should have assumed it at
all and got away with it. He got a
first class education through the help of
Indonesians and allegedly some sympa-
thetic Dutch in the years during and
after World War I.
He was a bright student, involved from
earliest schooldays in nationalist move-
ments to which he was introduced by
clandestine writings and the fathers of
Abdulgani (recently sacked as Chairman
of the Supreme National Advisory Coun-
cil) and Arudji, a politician.
It is alleged that Soekarno married
Arudji’s sister but Soekarno’s marriages,
though decidedly less numerous than his
affairs, are also surrounded by mystery
and lack of information. Soekarno grad-
uated from Surabaya High School to the
University at Bandoeng where he studied
not engineering, as is commonly reported,
but architecture.
The misnomer arises out of the Dutch
custom of using Dr lr for Doctor of
Engineering. It doesn’t explain anymore
than Ph. D. in American usage what the
particular discipline is. As a result prac-
tically a generation of Indonesian and
foreign journalists have wasted tons of
ink extrolling Dr Soekarno’s extraordinary
non-existent interest in steel mills, mach-
inery and so on.
Soekarno set up as an architect in the
beautiful mountain capital of Bandoeng.
It is alleged that he had a hand in de-
signing a minor mosque. He was not in-
terested in architecture, but in agitation
and nationalist activities. He began to
make public speeches and worry the
Dutch authorities.
He married into a reasonably well to
do Javanese family. He divorced the
particular girl in 1943 during the Jap-
anese occupation. Even at this stage
many of Soekarno’s acquaintances were
either Communist or pro-Communist.
One of the most determined protests
against Dutch colonial rule had been
staged by the Communists in 1926, some
of whom had been educated in Hol-
land, unlike Soekarno, and who had
contacted and maintained close links
with European Communist leaders.
In 1927 they helped him found the
P.N.I. (Partai Nasional Indonesia). —
still President Soekarno’s party and one
of the major political parties in In-
donesia. Then, rather than now. its or-
ganisation, propaganda methods and
general aims were close copies of Com-
munist Party activities of the period. So
much so that leaders of other Indonesian
nationalist parties no less revolution-
ary but gradualist in method appealed
to the central government in Batavia to
restrain Soekarno from upsetting the
apple cart for the rest of them. In
1929, after several warnings, Soekarno
was prosecuted before a Landraad and
sentenced to imprisonment.
The PNI quarrelled and split into two
factions. Soekarno was released after
several months and again imprisoned
in 1931 for about a year. In 1933 he was
imprisoned again but not before he
pleaded with the government that he had
been misled by extremists and, according
to the Dutch who may not be reliable,
had offered to reveal PNI secrets in re-
turn for non-prosecution. The Dutch re-
fused to listen and he was exiled to
Flores. Indonesian romanticists like to
maintain that it was Tanahmerah in
Dutch New Guinea.
After some time in Flores his health
broke down and he was transferred to
Bencoolen in Sumatra which had been
the Sumatra home for five years of Stam-
ford Raffles when the British very nearly
took over what is now Indonesia. Soe-
karno had no opportunities in Ben-
coolen for agitation but a great deal
of time for thought and pamphleteering.
The first thing he took up was Islamic
study. The notion of Islam appealed to
a latent semi-religious streak he is
nothing if not a romantic and he
wrote several pamphlet studies of Islamic
theology and politics which succeeded
only in alarming Islamic scholars and
Imams by their gigantic unwitting heres-
ies. He then turned to pamphlets attack-
ing Nazism, Fascism and Japanese am-
bitions in China and South East Asia.
These abruptly ceased after the entry
of Japan into the war. Early in 1942 he
was allowed to move to Padang, Sum-
atra, where he was helpful and consid-
erate in assisting the evacuation of Dutch
civilians. After the fall of Bandoeng he
appealed to the N.E.I. Government to
evacuate him from Padang because he
feared Japanese reprisals but the central
government was by then beyond moving
anybody. On the morning of March 17th,
1942, the die was cast. He awoke to
the sounds of Japanese staff cars moving
through the town.
He made himself known to the local
commander who sent him to Fort de
Kock where he worked as a high class
“translator” for four months, arriving in
Batavia in July 1942. The day after he
arrived, Radio Tokio referred to him
as “the” Indonesian leader. In fact he
was. He was called Official Adviser, had
money, a staff car, a government house
and a dazzling future. The three and half
years of Japanese rule proved Soekarno
a vehement collaborator.
The Wartime Broadcasts
He is suitably reticent about those
years but his radio broadcasts were
picked up by monitors all over the world.
They were violently anti-Dutch which
was to be expected violently anti-
Allied and violently pro-Japanese. No
one expected him to follow the example
of Sutan Sjahrir who, alone among In-
donesia’s top post war leaders, refused
even to speak to the Japanese but took
to the central mountains to be hunted
like an animal for most of the war.
(Sjahrir lndonesia’s ablest public
figure and until recently Prime Minister
—is now under house arrest in Djakarta).
But even close fellow collaborators like
Hatta and Subardjo never praised the
Japanese publicly. By June 1945 it was
quite clear that Japan would shortly be
out of the war and that independence
should be proclaimed. Hatta and Sjahrir
were determined on it. Soekarno lost his
nerve and repeatedly stalled.
Paradoxically he seemed to be worry-
ing about the possibilities of a re-estab-
lished Dutch regime as much as possible


Japanese reaction. The issue was never-
theless forced and independence declared.
The rest is more familiar history. The
war against the Dutch, his capture at
Djogja, his election as Republican Presi-
dent, as President of the ill-fated United
States of Indonesia and then as Presi-
dent of the unitary Republic.
To this day he still rules with cheer-
ful illegality and shameless disregard for
proper constitutional processes. He is a
born intriguer and master of political
skirmishing. He has remained in power
through a combination of national
appeal, popular oratory and an unex-
celled ability to play one party off
against another. He had a good start in
the field.
A Genuine Nationalist Figure.
He was a respected nationalist leader
in the thirties, a genuine and necessary
symbol of resistance to the Dutch; one of
the few with an urgent vision of a united
Indonesia. He alone, in some respects
has provided the romantic, nationalist
image necessary to keep 3,000 islands
from flying apart. More clearly than
most, or perhaps more energetically, he
saw the necessity of creating a state
which would not revert to a mediaeval
Islamic theology.
And yet the vision which sees a united
Indonesia so clearly clouds quickly
enough where his own personal tastes
and interests are concerned. He has
maintained in office cabinets of such
spectacular corruption and inefficiency as
to have no parallels in modern times.
He has victimised old comrades, de-
tained honest and efficient men under
house arrest, spent hundreds of thous-
ands of pounds on vain and wasteful
overseas trips. He has organised such
scandalous things as an Air Force mutiny
against a prime minister of his own
choosing, used his presidential veto to
protect crooks and chisellers, instigated
whispering campaigns against honest
critics and, perhaps more than anybody
else in Indonesia, encouraged its chronic
corruption and backsliding.
To him, almost solely, belongs the
dubious honor of sabotaging democratic
processes in Indonesia to the point where
it is probably impossible to revive them.
Although a man of quick and compre-
hensive intelligence he lacks intellect and
judgment. His is the romantic tempera-
ment which, however shrewd, proceeds
upon feeling and emotion.
His vanity is almost disarming. An
Asian diplomat on one occasion tried to
please him by comparing him with Nehru.
It was an outrageous comparison which
even diplomacy could scarcely excuse.
Soekarno’s reaction was neither to show
delight nor enter a modest disclaimer.
Instead he treated the diplomat to a
sulky reminder that Soekarno was a
much greater man than Nehru
He has little real grasp of political
theory and prefers resounding empty
phrases, vast promises and glittering dis-
tractions to concrete thought and action.
He is impulsive and in the larger sense
thoughtless. By nature he can be gener-
ous and vindictive, sympathetic and des-
tructive, by turn.
He has little capacity for real work
and no inclination to settle down and
tackle his archipelago’s intractable prob-
lems of food production and distribu-
tion, its lack of industries and technicians
which drove Khrushchev up the wall in
sarcastic disdain, its shortage of doctors,
dentists and engineers, its lack of com-
munications and roads, the slow, sullen,
growing resentment of its people at such
monumental incompetence. It is much
easier to divide and rule by a dangerous
alliance with the Communists, rebuking
the Army here, praising a political party
there, here capriciously raising a man to
high eminence, there callously sacking an
old friend or comrade. An unfailing
diversion from the pressures of hunger
and frustration can always be provided
by yet a new revelation of Dutch plots
and outrages. “Colonialism,” Prime
Minister Nehru exclaimed in the Indian
Lower House some years ago. “I am
sick of the word. We cannot go on
blaming colonialism forever for our own
faults and short-comings.” Dr Soekarno
can and does. It is he more than any
other prominent Indonesian who to the
point of neurosis has kept alive and re-
animated all the faults, real and imagined,
of 400 years of Dutch occupation.
Together with his championship of
Communism and his frequently barely
rational campaign against the Dutch is
inextricably woven his largely fraudu-
lent, spurious campaign to liberate Irian
Barat. It is one of the shoddiest cam-
paigns of modern times just as the drop-
ping of bewildered, uninformed Indones-
ian paratroopers into the physically
harsh West New Guinea countryside is
one of the least glorious military expedi-
tions ever recorded.
West New Guinea is probably Soe-
karno s last throw. He will undoubtedly
get it if he really wants it. But what
then? There is a limit to the number of
Dutch perfidies which he can pull out
of the hat. He must turn people’s at-
tention to yet another outrage; yet an-
other vast, improbable, trumped up issue.
An issue which like that of West New
Guinea Indonesia’s determined, well-
organised, tactically shrewd and history
conscious Communist Party PKI
would exploit with consummate skill
backing the venture no further, and no
less, than is required to achieve political
gains. Soekarno’s relations with the
Communists contain elements of mystery.
Some Indonesians maintain that his
partiality to them was based originally
on a conviction that the only way to
handle them was to allow them freedom
of movement and expression. That, in
short, it would be fatal to suppress them
and wiser to have them where he could
watch what they were doing, promote
them when it suited him and slap them
down when they got out of hand. This
is too simplistic. Part of Soekarno’s
political romanticism is his firm belief
that the Communists have a proper and
constructive political role to play. On
occasions, for example, he has praised
the American Declaration of Indepen-
dence and the Communist Manifesto, as
the two great documents of human free-
dom and emotional impact.
Bung and the Communists
It is sometimes forgotten that in
promoting “guided democracy” Soekarno
received the utmost support from the
PKI. It also supported him in his
political concept of NASAKOM the
fusion of the country’s religious, national-
ist and communist elements into a
national front working from the cabinet
down to village level. This notion derives
from another political concept of
Soekarno’s MARHAENISM. This is
a particular and, allegedly, Titoist form
of Marxism and is not supposed to have
anything to do with Soviet ideology.
Despite that the PKI has played
Soekarno’s game to its own resounding
success. Thus when Soekarno sought to
return to the 1945 Constitution the PKI
switched from complete opposition to
wholehearted support of the President.
One of the most outstanding examples
of the Communist Party following an
unpalatable line, in order to achieve long
term benefits, was its support of
Soekarno’s expulsion of the Overseas
Chinese. Yet another was in 1960 when
the PKI attacked all political parties and
members by name but never referred to
the President. And yet despite the
President’s support of the Communists
and his dangerous alliance with them
there is evidence that he is disillusioned
with all political parties.
Much opinion in Djakarta these
days among many Indonesians as well
as foreigners is that Soekarno no longer
believes that Indonesia can survive as
a modern, unified state. After him, le
deluge. In the meantime he lives like a
mediaeval Javanese sultan tripping
around his palaces, seeking new women,
exercising despotic power and mostly re-


1
■ ■■■■
*
m
m
mm
m
m
KjWSS
ssm
mmmm
' f %
, i >
:x ;^;
-#w
m
i
tyrSkerru Selected *DI
MW
f/>
18 43
(cQcleman's
rr=rrrf J .
MONTILLO
dry
SHERRY
. l indemans wines pty. ltE^
a SYDNEY
Ipk N£T CONTENTS IPT. 6FI.OZS- jfe
PRODUCE OF AUSTRAL^
In all the best homes ...
{vrulemaris
LINDEMAN'S MONTILLO DRY SHERRY
a light enticing sherry, nutty, clean refreshing.
LINDEMAN'S MONTILLO SEMI-SWEET SHERRY
for those who like their Sherry in between dry and sweet.
LINDEMAN'S MONTILLO SWEET SHERRY
with the sun-ripe fragrance and savour of the grapes.
LINDEMAN’S Australia’s greatest prizewinners


fusing to take responsibility for the re-
sults.
His favorite pastime is going abroad
which is a very expensive bit of fun by
the time the Indonesian government has
chartered a special jet to take the Presi-
dent and his entourage around the world.
World trips are not quite so popular as
they were. The last one was a flop and
Soekarno’s personal attempt at Belgrade
to become a leader of non-aligned powers
failed miserably.
However, he still indulges in one par-
ticular bit of fun carting unwilling
and sometimes infirm ambassadors
around Indonesia in specially chartered
planes. His vanity is childlike and end-
less. In earlier days after a long, hot,
boring evening when everybody wanted
to go to bed Soekarno would require his
august audience to stay up and watch
his young son and daughter dance Jav-
anese or Balinese folk dances. Both
children were conspicuously poor danc-
ers.
The boy, Gunthur, eventually turned
against his father and his stepmother
Hartini —Soekarno’s new wife. In 1957,
for example, Gunthur refused to attend
Soekarno’s mother’s funeral unless he
travelled on separate aircraft to Hartini
and unless Soekarno abjured sleeping
and eating with his wife. Gunthur also
refused to be circumcised, as becomes
an elder son, until Soekarno reinstated
Gunthur’s mother as his first wife.
These are the bits of scandal and gos-
sip on which Djakarta thrives. Another
scandal, an open one, is the President’s
sex life which has become a problem to
him with increasing years. He likes
women and in large numbers. He has
taken to sex drugs and there have been
various gloomy warnings that if he main-
tains the habit he will die. So far he
hasn’t.
Indonesian men, other than religious
purists, regard Soekarno’s mass infideli-
ties with amusement mixed with admira-
tion. There is the quite scurrilous but
persistent story that when Soekarno was
the guest of a “certain foreign power” he
was filmed hard at play. Agents then
approached various political leaders in
Indonesia to enquire the effect that clan-
destine release of the film would pro-
duce among Indonesians. The answer
W'as a horse laugh. Sexual prowess is
always admired.
But if the men laugh tolerantly,
women do not. Growing numbers of mili-
tant Indonesian female emancipists re-
gard Soekarno’s carryings on as a de-
grading affront to Indonesian woman-
hood. Not that he is greatly sensitive to
criticism of that sort. Only an insensi-
tive man, for example, would invent a
special dance of peculair monotony a
sort of “Merdeka Waltz” to be danced
by diplomats in extreme heat on state
occasions. It takes about an hour to
complete the dance when there is a pause
for cold orange drinks before resuming
it again.
Attendance is compulsory and in a
despotic kingdom like Java the smiles
and nods of Soekarno are worth compet-
ing for. As a result diplomats are often
treated to the spectacle of America’s
ageing Howard P. Jones shuffling up
and down the dance floor of some palace
briskly trying to defeat similar efforts
by the U.S.S.R.’s Michaelov. Australian
representatives these days get only the
coldest of nods. Soekarno can be rude
and cutting when he chooses to men and
women alike.
Soekarno —No Alternatives?
Another instance of almost unbeliev-
able insensitivity is whipping off parties
of ambassadors to outlying islands and
towns to attend “spontaneous” mass
meetings on West Irian. Ambassadors
are supposed to shout “Merdeka” (Free-
dom) in response to the same greeting
from the assembled masses on the thin
grounds that the word has become an
everyday salutation which it most de-
cidedly hasn’t.
Nevertheless for all Soekarno’s faults
—his irresponsibility, his ruthlessness,
his nationally destructive self-indulgence
—he remains pre-eminently the father
image of the Indonesian state. Nasution
is more honest, Hatta more restrained,
Sjahrir more capable and so on down
the list. But in the chaos which will
surely follow Soekarno’s death who
are they? They are either old, under
arrest, unknown to the mass of the
people or lacking the magical appeal
necessary to weld a nation fatally dis-
posed to splinter into fragments under
the best of circumstances.
There is no replacement for Soekarno
and Indonesia must follow him down
the dizzy path to economic collapse and
political bankruptcy. There seems to be
no other path and Soekarno’s life must
end within the reasonably foreseeable
future either from the hectic pace which
he maintains or possibly from an
assassin’s bullet.
Currently his health is better than
might be expected despite his chronic
kidney stone trouble. In common with
many other top Indonesian leaders he
has a dukun a sort of witch doctor
soothsayer by the name of Rahman
who has warned him that he will die by
the knife. It was because of this warning
that Soekarno resolutely opposed under-
going a much needed operation for his
kidney stone in Vienna not so long ago.
He was then advised to submit to a
treatment of acupuncture by a team of
Chinese doctors.
It is not known whether they came
from Formosa or Red China but their
efforts have been unexpectedly success-
ful. Acupuncture is the treatment of
the body or affected parts by puncturing
the skin with needles. At all events he
is better in health than he has been for
some time but this may only be tem-
porary.
Soekarno must occasionally be as de-
pressed as he is reported to be, sitting in
the Merdeka Palace in Djakarta once
the neatest, cleanest, most orderly city
of the Orient. Now 3,500,000 people are
packed into a patched, peeling city of
a squalor only exceeded by the limp
hopelessness of Calcutta. Huge craters
appear in main roads in which one may
find a late model Chev or one of the
übiquitous Mercedes Benz so beloved of
whisky drinking army officers. They are
left there for there are no towing ser-
vices, no garages to tow them to if there
were.
Suburb by suburb, week about, elec-
tric lights flicker dismally out because
of insufficient city generator capacity.
Household water must be boiled.
Disease lurks in the kitchens of once
beautiful hotels; cholera is an ever
present fear. Huge banquets prepared for
official parties at the once resplendent
Hotel des Indes are left untouched by
gastrophobe guests. Telephone communi-
cations are chaotic.
Houses lie guarded day and night be-
hind wire fences against Djakarta’s
criminal elements formed largely by
hungry peasants pressing in from the
countryside to become the only thing
they can become trishaw drivers,
hungry, overworked, doomed to early
death. Along the curving canals where
children play, women baste clothes and
men submerge themselves for an early
morning wash, a sluggish, brown tide of
filth and human excreta moves slowly
towards the harbor. And yet thousands of
new cars swish along the soft tarred roads
beside the endless rows of decaying Dutch
bungalows which contrast so oddly with
the tawdry splendors of the new hotel
and stadium nearly completed for Soe-
karno’s prestige-heavy Asian Games in
August.
It is not all like this of course. There
remains the exquisitely colored country-
side of almost incredible beauty and
richness and the vital, gentle, charming
people. And beyond the plains and
mountains of Java with its 50 or more
million people lie the blue seas and magi-
cally named spice islands which make
up the great Indonesian Archipelago. An
empire which is going down the drain,
where Merdeka! is now more of a taunt
than a rallying cry.


Out and about
HAPPY BIRTHDAY-SUIT
"You relax. You're in another world."
By DAPHNE DIMITRIADES
IN this country people can engage in
group activity while completely
naked, and maintain absolute
modesty and respect for all other social
conventions. Local nudists disclaim any
brotherhood with the nudist colonies in
England and the Continent, members
of which have attached the discarding
of clothes to a worked-out credo the
“getting back to nature” theory which
is often accompanied with living off the
land, vegetarianism or other ideas on
diet.
Australian nudists are mainly con-
cerned with recreational pursuits, get-
ting rid of clothes and getting an over-
all suntan. According to the secretary-
treasurer of the Australian Federation
of Sun Clubs, Mr John Boswell, “In
taking off your clothes you relax. You’re
in another world. You have a sense of
relief of tension by getting away from
the restrictions and convention of nor-
mal workaday life”.
There are about 3000 nudists in this
About half of them are
migrants from Europe, especially Ger-
mans and Dutch, who have been nudists
in their home country. Of the 16 nudist
clubs dotted in every State of the Com-
monwealth, the Woodlands Sun and
Health Club at Austral, 26 miles from
Sydney, is the largest. On a good Sat-
urday or Sunday 100 to 150 nudists soak
up the sun there.
Approaching the area one is faced
with the 10-foot high, green, galvanised-
iron fence which surrounds the seven-
acre premises, a fence which is regu-
larly inspected for holes. Every member
is provided with a membership-card as
well as a key to the gate which opens
into a curved, labyrinth-like entrance.
The grounds contain a number of
sleeping huts where members stay over
the weekend. During holidays and es-
pecially at Christmas time these are
supplemented by tents.
There is an impressive swimming pool,
90-feet long and 36-feet wide, as well
as a club-house with a table-tennis table,
and tennis and volley-ball courts, volley-
ball being accepted as the game of
nudists the world over.
Nudist clubs are formed either by a
group of nudists, or, like Woodlands, they
are proprietary clubs on private prop-
erty where the owner of the land has sole
control. All applications for membership
to proprietary clubs go through the pro-
prietor and he has the right to accept or
reject applicants. There are no elected
office-bearers at Woodlands except for
social committees which plan group ac-
tivity but do not have any voice in the
management of the camp.
Initiates are not forced to strip on their
first day, but on the second visit they
are required to strip to prove they are
not just tourists, but have a genuine
interest in nudism. Members picnic on the
lawns, sit in folding chairs and read, swim
or join in one of the organised ball-
games. Some wash their cars, and one
member attends to his accounting books.
The whole scene is so domestic that it
would not warrant another glance, but
for the fact that everyone is naked.
Nudists are not fanatics. They put on
clothes when the temperature drops in
the evening and in wintertime the few
members who go out to Woodlands gen-
erally remain clothed.
The greatest single characteristic of
nudism in Australia is the family basis of
the movement. The majority of members
are family groups. Next in numbers are
single men, then single women. There is
a conscious attempt by the clubs to main-
tain a balance of the sexes and most
have a waiting-list of single men. Single
men are more attracted to organised
nudism than are single women. The only
children at a nudist camp would be child-
ren of members, as you must be 21 to
join.
There are plenty of late-model cars at
Woodlands and of those who were dressed
no one could be described as “working-
class”. It is, however, difficult to tell the
rich from the poor when their clothes
are taken away. Nevertheless, the general
inaccessibility of nudist parks which
makes a car almost a necessity, plus the
eight guinea (for couples), 10 guinea
(single men) annual membership fee at
Woodlands, tends to put the nudist into
the middle or upper-middle class of
society,
Inside Woodlands there is none of the
sexual behavior that one normally sees
on any public beach; no kissing and no
display of affection. From almost any
point in the grounds one can see all over
the enclosure. It would be almost im-
possible to do anything in private even
if two people wanted to. The only attack
one might wish to frame against nudist
camps is their singular puritanism. One
nudist aptly put it that “social nudity is
not a sexy situation”,
This is probably the reason why most
young people reject the nudist club. Adult
nudists would like to believe that this is
because the camps don’t have facilities
to attract young people. It is more likely


DO YOU LIKE
THE NEW LOOK
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 2521 G.P.0., Sydney
NAME
ADDRESS
Please arrange for my BULLETIN to
be delivered to me each week by
MY NEWSAGENT
BY DIRECT SUBSCRIPTION
Please tick ( J) whichever method of
delivery you prefer.
For those desiring direct sub-
scription:
Please find enclosed my cheque/money
order for months subscription to
THE BULLETIN.
RATES (Australia and New Guinea): 1 year
£2 125.; •y 2 year—£l 6s. Post free. British
Dominions: £3 6s. Other countries: £3 16s.
N.Z. SUBSCRIPTIONS (Remit to Box 965,
Wellington, N.Z.): 1 year— £2 12s. (N.Z.
currency); y 2 year —£l 6s. (N.Z. currency).
Please add exchange to cheques.
BULLETIN?
Perhaps this is the first issue of THE BULLETIN you
have read. But whether you are a new reader or an
old one why don't you make sure of YOUR copy of
THE BULLETIN by ordering it each week? There are
two ways of doing it either through your newsagent
or by direct subscription. The form at left offers you
your choice of method of delivery. You may send us
your name and address and we will arrange for the
newsagent nearest you to deliver your copy of
THE BULLETIN each week and charge it to your account.
Or, if you prefer it, we will mail each week's copy
to your address by direct subscription.
Tine
Bulletin
Incorporating The Australian Financial Times
that the children leave when they reach
their teens because the club does not
facilitate the group behavior and sexual
activity that young people seek. At week-
ends they would rather put on a swim-
ming costume and “pet” with other teen-
agers at the beach, than lie naked in the
sun at Woodlands.
Flowever, there is a tendency for the
children of nudists who leave, to return
to the club after their marriage and they
nearly always bring their wives with
them. In any case, membership for
married people is dependent on the
spouse’s consent. Sometimes there is in-
termarriage within the group but this
probably doesn’t occur any more than
intermarriage in any other mixed group.
One of the rules at Woodlands is that
members can only be known to each other
by their Christian names to protect
the individual against community pre-
judices. This seems an example of the
general feeling of persecution which many
nudists feel.
A rule forbids alcohol being brought
into Woodlands. A prominent nudist ex-
plained this: “We are down-to-earth
people,” he said “If you start introduc-
ing alcohol in large gatherings somebody’s
judgment is going to get fuddled. Nudism
and alcohol don’t go together. We want
the movement to survive so we take nor-
mal, protective cautions to eliminate
those hazards”.
For parties and social gatherings
nudists sometimes get dressed up .
. . ° , £ .
A concert includes the obvious —
, , .
dancing hula girls and grass skirts:
in fact, nothing very different to any club
social except that the hula girls wear
nothing over their breasts. At evening
socials clothes must be worn and al-
though not compulsory at film showings,
most people do dress.
Where do nudists fit into the social
pattern? The main thing about nudists
* s that they are only nudists at the week-
end during the week they are ordin-
ary people. They are similar in a way
to the “ af ter-five'’ beatniks who change
from their conservative office clothes
into tight blue jeans or black skirts and
b]ack ” sweaters J
But nuclist s are different again, be-
cause when they are naked thev are miles
away from the city and in an inaccessible
enclosure. Therefore, they do not nor-
mally interfere with other people at all.
Nevertheless there is the occasional move
by some authority against nudism. The
Queensland Police Commissioner, Mr.
Bischof, recently closed Brisbane’s only
nudist club the Sunspot on the
grounds that there was a moral danger
to the children of members of the club.
fThiERE are several magazines published
by nudist clubs throughout Australia
and they are freely available to the public.
Club members claim that it is hard for
prospective nudists to contact a club and
therefore the wide distribution of the
magazines is warranted. Although they
claim not to proselytise, nudists un-
doubtedly feel that they must state their
position.
Although there are 3000 nudists in
Australia, the circulation of “Solar”, the
leading magazine, reaches 14,000. While
the true nudist would claim that the sight
of the human body as such is not neces-
sarily a sexually arousing thing and that
sexual arousal is a state of mind, never-
theless one is tempted to suggest that not
all the extra 11,000 readers ascribe to
the ideals of “Solar,” which stated on
page three of the 14th edition, that it is
“devoted to the sunlover, the naturalist,
and to all interested in the cultivation of
a healthy mind and body”.
For those of the 11,000 people who
read nudist magazines for the sex-stimu-
lating quality of the photographs a
word of advice. Don’t join a nudist club,
20 naked people do not have 10 times
as much fun as two naked people they
have 10 times less.


STUMPS ARE DRAWN
"Gilbert's stuff is so modern"
By PATRICIA ROLFE
When New Zealander Richard
Campion set about a new pro-
duction of “The Gondoliers”
for J. C. Williamson’s, an ancient mecha-
nist with The Firm said to him: “First
thing you’ll need will be a coupla
stumps.” “Stumps? What for?” Mr Cam-
pion asked politely. “You always have a
coupla stumps in Gilbert and Sullivan,”
the mechanist said out of his vast store
of knowledge, “One each side of the
stage, so that one lead can sit down while
the other is singing, and vice versa.”
“And it was perfectly true,” Mr Cam-
pion said. “In various guises, the stumps
were always there.” However, now that
the copyright on the operettas has ex-
pired they can be produced without pay-
ment of royalties, and they need not be
produced according to “the book”. Mr.
Campion said that “the book” in J. C.
Williamson’s case, was packing-cases filled
with massive prompt books, annotated to
the last lift of an eyebrow. Mr Campion
ordered the packing-cases away and
bought himself a copy of the original
libretti.
“ ‘The book’ gave every move on the
board, but it really didn’t follow the
original intentions of Gilbert at all,” Mr
Campion said. “Most of the business was
added to suit the particular talents of
noted players. Then, whether this inter-
pretation suited the next actor to take
the part or not, it was fitted on him as
part of the Gilbert and Sullivan ‘tradi-
tion.’
“The interpretations of Menzies, one
of the most famous Gilbert and Sullivan
people, who was short and stout, would
not suit Richard Wordsworth, who is
very tall and thin, at all. The operettas
were done as vehicles for star-performers,
which is all wrong.”
Mr Campion is producing “The Gon-
doliers” and “The Mikado.” Others may
follow. “The Gondoliers” will open in
Sydney on June 22 and the company will
tour all States and New Zealand. None
of the company has appeared in Gilbert
and Sullivan before, except Doreen Mor-
row, who has sung Tessa and Pitti Sing,
and Richard Wordsworth, here on his
second visit from London to head the
cast, who played Yum Yum as a school-
boy. None of the chorus has ever played
in the operettas. Mr Campion insisted
on this. Mr Campion himself, who is
the new permanent producer for J. C.
Williamson’s, has seen only one produc-
tion, by amateurs in Melbourne.
Mr Campion is with J. C. William-
son’s initially for 12 months. This is not
his first stage experience involving music.
He produced “The Consul” and “Salad
Days” for the New Zealand Opera
Company.
Mr Campion had his first experience
in the theatre in New Zealand, but
trained as a producer at the Old Vic,
and later produced at the Mermaid
Theatre in London. He produced “J. 8.”
for the Adelaide Festival this year, and
expects that his next chore for J. C.
Williamson’s will be a straight play.
Mr Campion explained the fresh ap-
proach to G. and S. in the back-stalls of
a darkened theatre while Betty Pounder,
J. C. Williamson’s choreographer, worked
with the cast on-stage. “Entrechats?”
yelped Richard Wordsworth, “No, I can’t
do those, but I can manage a sort of
twiddle.”
“The wonderful thing about Gilbert’s
stuff is that it is so modern, such sharp
satire, and so pertinent to our times.”
Mr Campion said, his eyes alight with
new discovery. “ ‘The Gondoliers’ is
about royalty and people’s attitudes
towards it. What could be more apt these
days?
“We want royalty to be there, but we
don’t want them to do anything. And
that is exactly the second act of ‘Gon-
doliers’.”
The only major change which Mr
Campion has made in “The Gondoliers”
is to transfer it to the late 16th century
from the late 17th. “This is the right
period, I think, because it was the time
of the founding of the Venetian repub-
lic,” he said. “Also the costumes of this
period are less cumbersome and elabor-
ate. There is only one change in the
script, just a phrase, but that is a secret.
“There will be more substantial
changes on the text of ‘The Mikado’. It’s
really necessary when the Lord High
Executioner gives a list of crimes that
they should be up to the minute.
“All the time I think to myself: old
Gilbert was a good theatre man. What
would he do here, given modern lighting
and stage facilities? I think it out that
way. I am convinced that the operettas
can be done in a more natural way, like
a modern American musical-comedy. So
is Sir Frank Tait, whose wife was a
leading G. and S. soprano. However,
Sir Frank isn’t going to tell me just how
he thinks they can be done in a modern
manner—until he has seen my produc-
tion.”
Mr Campion thinks that the greatest
changes which Gilbert “if he were here”
would make in the production of his
operettas would be to get away from the
two rigid sets, one for each act, which
characterised earlier productions.
“The tradition was for ritualistic pro-
duction and naturalistic scenery,” he
said. “Probably it should have been
naturalistic production and stylised scen-
ery. At any rate our production will work
towards naturalness. All the people on
stage will look like people, and not like
a chorus line in a Gilbert and Sullivan
operetta. The gondoliers will not all be
dressed the same way, just for a begin-
ning.”
“Arabesques?” exploded Richard
Wordsworth from the stage. “I can’t do
those ruddy great leaps. But I could
jump off a step if you really wanted it.”
“I want old G. and S. fans to see the
operettas as if they had never seen them
before,” Mr Campion said. “And I want
younger people to see them as if they
had never been produced before.”
We 're not going south this winter. We're not joining the
rat-race. No, we stay here and freeze to death."


New York Newsletter
BEARS AND BULLS ON WALL STREET
Big trouble in the magazine business
From GEORGE McGANN
HPhe loud animal noises of the Bulls
and Bears in Wall Street have
drowned out muted cries of anguish
from other areas of big business suffer-
ing every bit as much as the stock
market, but with considerably more
dignity.
I have always felt there was something
raffish and common about “The Street”.
To paraphrase the remark about a war
profiteer, it’s not quite couth. The
raffishness and noise have dominated the
newspapers here in recent weeks as the
Bear market went on its runaway slide,
with as much as $20,000 million in share
values disappearing in a single day’s
trading.
Of course what happens in Wall Street
touches many people in their most
sensitive spot, the pocketbook nerve, and
the Press, TV and radio can perhaps be
forgiven for a tendency to overplay the
inherent drama of a falling stock market.
Too, there is always the grim memory
of 1929 and hapless investors leaping
out of Wall Street skyscrapers. The
market rallied in time to spare us the
gaudy spectacle of mass defensestration
but the leapers will no doubt be poised
if we have to undergo another sinking
spell in Wall Street.
As an example of an industry which
can take its ups and downs more or less
in stride, at least without inflicting them
upon the public consciousness day and
n 'ght, I give you the embattled magazine
business.
The periodicals of this country are in
serious trouble. The largest of them all,
The Saturday Evening Post”, for genera-
tions a legend, an institution and an
awesome money-maker, is literally fight-
ing for its life. And the small high-
quality publications such as “Harper’s
Magazine” and the “Atlantic Monthly”
are in equally desperate straits, threatened
suddenly with a rise in postal rates
which could put them out of business.
Two big - circulation magazines,
“Collier’s” and “Coronet” have already
died, and more will undoubtedly dis-
appear before long.
The principal villain in the piece, all
publishers will readily admit, is tele-
vision. About ten years ago the big
advertisers began to switch from maga-
zines to television commercials in their
ceaseless efforts to reach the mass market.
At the same time costs of publishing rose
spectacularly—the price of high-quality
paper used by the “slick” magazines
zoomed 450 per cent, a year after World
War II and is still climbing.
As a result of the curious economics
of the magazine business, the more
“popular” a publication becomes the
more it suffers. Every publication has
its point of no return in circulation. Once
that point is exceeded the publication
begins to lose money on its output of
magazines. At the same time advertisers
insist on ever-larger circulation figures
from the magazines. It is a vicious circle
and one which most magazines have not
been able to break out of. They are
caught in a relentless profit squeeze.
The most recent financial survey of the
magazine business makes pretty sad read-
ing for the publishers.
Circulation and revenues are at all-
time high levels—but profits are at all-
time lows and dropping at an ominous
rate. The 35 leading publishing houses
in America reported a modest 4.3 per
cent, profit in 1950. Exactly 10 years
later substantially the same group (minus
several companies which had given up
the ghost) showed an aggregate profit of
1.7 per cent. About 40 per cent, of the
top magazine publishing houses were
operating at a loss. During the decade
1950-1960, it should be remembered, the
American economy as a whole was
enjoying unprecedented prosperity.
The plight of the periodical publishing
industry as a whole can be best under-
stood, perhaps, by a look at what has
happened to “The Saturday Evening
Post”, a giant stricken by an ailment
which might eventually prove fatal
despite emergency ministrations by the
highest-priced advisers Madison Avenue
can offer.
Everyone knew “The Post” had been
ailing for a long time but the full extent
of its financial ills became public
knowledge only last year, when it posted
a loss of more than $4,000,000 —its first
deficit in 70 years of prestigious publica-
tion. This year’s deficit may be larger,
despite recent firings and hirings of
editors, a completely revamped format
and drastic economies.
“The Post” is owned by the Curtis
Publishing Company, whose building is
a Philadelphia landmark overlooking
Independence Square and as much a sight-
seer’s target as Independence Hall, the
“Cradle of Liberty.” Curtis also publishes
“Ladies’ Home Journal”, “Holiday” and
other magazines, but its fame and for-
tune ride principally on the once-stalwart
back of “The Post”. The country’s oldest
publication, “The Post” traces its begin-
nings to Benjamin Franklin, who started
it in 1728 as the “Pennsylvania Gazette.”
“The Post” came into its greatest era
of influence and affluence at the close of
the Civil War, when a shrewd Bostonian
named Cyrus Curtis acquired it. With
the building of the trans-continental rail-
way and the expansion of the western
frontiers, Curtis saw the need of a national
magazine and he made “The Post” the
first nationally circulated periodical. A


The
NORTHERN LIFE
Assurance Company of Australia Limited
(Incorporated in Canberra, Australia)
All Classes of Ordinary Life Assurance,
Superannuation and Annuity Policies Issued
HEAD OFFICE: 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone BL 5601 K. j. Hedley, General Manager
succession of brilliant editors, including
Edward Bok and George Horace Lorimer,
maintained a high editorial standard. But
“The Post’s” greatest asset was its enor-
mous advertising content.
Founder Curtis initiated the magazine’s
strict advertising code—no patent medi-
cine quacks got space in “The Post”, and
the magazine refused all liquor adver-
tising until things began to get desperate
in 1958. With the rise of the motorcar
industry and the resultant keen competi-
tion among Detroit manufacturers, “The
Post” became the out-standing medium
for the advertising. For many years it
was literally the showcase for a nation
on wheels.
But at the close of World War II “The
Post” suddenly began to look old-
fashioned. Its foisy covers by Norman
Rockwell, its rigidly Republican editorial
slant and its high content of Western
Adventure fiction gave it a “dated” look.
Competition from more sophisticated pub-
lications, particularly “Life” and “Look”
began to cut deeply into “The Post’s”
circulation and its advertisers began to
look elsewhere, particularly to television,
for the market which once belonged
almost excusively to “The Post”.
Last year, spurred by complaints from
stockholders, the Curtis management
made a radical change in editorial and
financial policies.
New, younger editors streamlined the
magazine, ran articles with a certain
“shock” effect on abortion and adultery,
and aired political opinions not necess-
arily those of the Curtis directors.
Rigid economies, including a reduc-
tion in the number of issues published
yearly, were instituted. Thus far these
drastic measures have had little effect.
The Curtis Company admitted its adver-
tising revenues were off 15 per cent, in
the first quarter of 1962, compared with
the same period in 1961, and warned its
stockholders to expect substantial losses
for this year’s operations, perhaps exceed-
ing the $4,000,000 deficit last year.
In addition to “The Post” 10 magazines
with circulations above the 5,000,000
mark are in trouble. Current struggles
are between “The Post’s” distaff publica-
tion, “The Ladies’ Home Journal”, and
fast-climbing “McCall’s Magazine”. Per-
sonal feuds between rival editors and cut-
throat circulation duels have highlighted
this battle in the women’s field.
Again, The Curtis Company has been
losing ground to younger, more imagina-
tive rivals. McCall's has exceeded “The
Ladies' Home Journal” in both circulation
and advertising revenues. But McCalls is
not making money, despite its spectacular
gains.
A fierce struggle is under way between
the top circulation picture magazines,
Life and Look. Once regarded as a
cheap and shoddy imitation of Henry
Luce’s Life, Gardner Cowles’ Look
Magazine has made a tremendous surge
in the past decade with consequent con-
cern within the Luce Empire. An im-
provement in editorial content, sales
techniques and printing processes has
enabled Look to climb to a plateau of
7,000,000 in circulation and outsell Life
issue for issue. (Life is a weekly, Look
a bi-weekly.)
Such has been the decline in Life’s
advertising revenues that Luce’s right
hand man, publisher Roy Larsen, has
taken to soliciting advertising for that
publication.
There are plenty of spirited contests
being fought in the arena of the smaller
magazines, below 5,000,000 in circula-
tion.
Trouble for the “New Yorker”
Time and Newsweek, which used to
spar in gentlemanly fashion for primacy
in the weekly news magazine field, now
find themselves battling a brash new-
comer, U.S. News and World Report.
Even the New Yorker, long supreme
as the most sophisticated (and most
successful) periodical in the land, has
been challenged by The Saturday Re-
view, and to an extent by The Reporter
Magazine.
The New Yorker, for the first time
in its brilliant 35-year history, recently
undertook to solicit subscriptions accord-
ing to the story one hears at cocktail
parties. This unprecedented step was
taken after the circulation department
discovered the loss of two New Yorker
subscribers at the end of 1960. The
magazine has since recouped that loss
and increased its circulation to 435,000
—a gain of two per cent, since the
double defection.
The small, special-interest magazines
have their own problems. Influential
monthlies such as Harper’s, The Atlantic
and Scientific American, and political
weeklies such as The New Republic and
The Nation have long existed precari-
ously because of limited circulation and
meagre advertising.
Now the continued existence of these
culturally important publications has been
placed in jeopardy by a proposed rise
in second-class mailing rates initiated by
the Kennedy Administration.
Edward Weeks, editor of The Atlantic,
protesting the proposed increase before
a Senate Committee, asked: “Is it in the
public interest for Congress to pass legis-
lation punishing to small, independent
magazines like The Atlantic?”
The ironic spectacle of an avowedly
“egg-head” President whose taste in read-
ing runs to The Atlantic and Harper’s
requesting legislation which would put
them out of business is one more para-
dox in the magazine business, which gets
curiouser and curioser all the time.


MACKAY-
TROPICAL
ADELAIDE
A thriving Capricornian
port celebrates its
100th anniversary
It is typical of the spirit and outlook
of the up-and-coming city of Mackay,
North Queensland, that having a hun-
dred years of history behind it, it states
its position in chronology as being “on
the threshold of its second century,” as it
does in its lavishly printed celebratory
booklet.
John Mackay, on his expedition from
far-south Armidale, discovered the site
of the city in the week in which the
writer’s mother was born in May 1860.
It was wild inaccessible country in which
no white man so far had set foot. When
my mother died just a few months short
of a century afterwards it had become
one of the richest districts in the
Commonwealth; the inlet and the outlet
for the organising centre of the sugar
lands of five great shires, of the great
tourist islands and the sweep of coastline
from Repulse Bay to Cape Palmerston
and of back country which is linked to it
by air and road out to the fertile land
of the Eungella Range and National Park
and the Nebo River.
John Mackay penetrated as far as
the Burdekin River early in April, 1860,
coming up from Marlborough south of
Broadsound and crossing the divide of
the Eungellas and Connor’s Ranges
which feed their waters southward
through the Isaacs River to the great
basin of the Fitzroy-Mackenzie Basin of
Central Queensland and northward and
into the Burdekin and the Pioneer Rivers
which irrigate vast, silted up sugar plains
along the coast.
He returned to the district in January
1862, and in June of that year boarded
the ketch “Presto” when she arrived in
the mouth of the Pioneer River and
piloted her up river into the country
where the first settlers set themselves
down in swamp and ti-tree and teeming
mosquitoes.
After that things moved swiftly, as
always in North Queensland. Within a
year the place had been gazetted as a
port. A post office was established and
the town had been laid out Adelaide-and-
Melbourne fashion with streets through-
out a chain and a half wide and squarely
at right angles by T. H. Fitzgerald, a
foreseeing surveyor and civil engineer.
Mackay had a Customs House by 1865.
By 1866 Mackay had a newspaper,
the “Mackay Mercury,” which survives
today as a prosperous daily in the pos-
session of the Manning family.
Not merely one traffic pipe line but
three have been added to the sea lane
which, not much more than a third of
a century ago, was Mackay’s only means
of communication with the south. The
last link of the railway tr Sydney, Mel-
bourne and Perth was completed in 1921.
Townsville, as Mackay wags put it, was
“connected by rail with civilisation” in
1923.
Townsville to Mackay via Proserpine,
Bowen, Ayr and the lovely Burdekin and
By M. H. ELLIS
Pioneer Mill region is a dream run of
265 miles, all on sealed highway. The
local networks are being intensified every
year to an extent measured by the cost
—about half a million pounds annual
average and this road building is a
“must” in the development program,
since Mackay’s economy is changing
rapidly in nature. The day is past when
the comings and goings of Mackay by
sea were mainly channelled through the
front door anchorage of Flat Top
Island to which passengers and sugar
alike were lightered to be tossed (if
they were lucky to rate so luxurious a
vessel) into the old “Bingera” or the
newer “Canberra.” Under the lee of the
Island the wharf laborers loaded the
lightered sugar at a snail-like rate which
won them world-wide renown.
Mackay and the Air Age
The coming of the air age and the
nature of Mackay’s surroundings have
added occupations of which Mackay
never even dreamt in the old days when
its first century of existence was only
half run.
Mackay’s aerodrome is so close to
town as to be almost part of the city
area. It is one of the older of the great
aerial distribution centres of Australia,
its flatness and available Town Common
having caught the discerning eye of Cap-
tain Ron Adair as early as 1927 when
he marked it down officially for an aero-
drome which opened for commercial
service in 1930 when the (then) giant
three-engined Fokkers began to sit down
there.
Now the bigger Viscounts and Metro-
politans bring it within three hours of
Sydney and its aerodrome is spattered
with a veritable museum of DH-A2
Drovers and Golden Islander Amphi-
bians serving Lindeman and Hayman
Islands out toward the Reef and Pioneer
and Coastal Airways’ Pipers bearing
freight and passengers to surrounding
towns and to the stations in the Shepherd
Kingdom country as far west even as
Nebo and beyond, to many points on
regular bi-weekly services.
Last year Mackay Aerodrome saw just
on 5200 aircraft movements and dealt
with over 42,000 passengers. The Depart-
ment of Civil Aviation which has leased
the aerodrome since 1941 steadily im-
proved the landing ground which now
has a 5600 ft sealed runway, plus a 4410
ft gravel one, a special light aircraft
strip, combined control tower and offices
and modern navigational aids that in-
clude a not-directional beacon, distance
measuring equipment and visual-aural
range. It has hydrant refuelling for the
big turbine craft.
Fine air-conditioned hotels, some of a
standard of room equipment equal to
those of more-than-medium hotels in the
big cities of the south, modern air-con-
ditioned motels and the spreading tourist
roads are turning Mackay more and
more into a tourist resort which looks
hopefully forward to the day when it will
be the main Golden Shore and holiday-
makers’ paradise of the north and equal
in population as in scenic beauty and
scenic attractions to those of the sur-
roundings of Key West in Florida, in
fact, a magnet for big game fishers and
lotus-eaters across the Pacific as well as
in a jaded south looking for a decent
climate to recuperate in.
The tourist traffic is reaching out for
the million pound a year mark. Six


Fairmiles each carrying 24 passengers
run their weekly tourist trip round Linde-
man, Brampton, Hayman, South Molle
and Long Islands around Whitsunday
Passage and to the outer reef which
shelters them twenty to forty miles to
sea. The tourist resorts run their own
seasonal trips. The local air services
bring in their floods of southern tourists
and their loads of cash from the south.
Mackay today boasts four times the
population it held in 1902—about
22,000.
It has two broadcasting stations —the
ABC’s 4QA and the Mackay Broad-
casting Service’s 4MK, serving the
country south to St Lawrence, north to
Bowen and west to Nebo. Two TV
stations are on the way, one National
and one commercial.
Cultural activities are such as to assure
that the stations do not have to depend
on imported programmes. A branch of
the Arts Council of Australia, in con-
junction with the Elizabethan Trust,
brings leading artists from the south, but
a district in which Melba once made her
home in the early days of her marriage
takes great pride in its own local musical
and artistic institutions.
Anybody who wrote about Mackay
without mentioning the Mackay Travel
League’s annual April Tourist Festival,
in which everybody and every institution
in the city joins, would never be able
to visit Mackay again without being
thrown into Shirley’s Fertiliser works
down by the new harbor.
Never were so many attractions packed
by so few into seven days—procession,
Mardi Gras ball, welcoming ceremonies
at airport and train, an aquacana, lights
and fireworks. In October there is
carnival galore on the tourist islands,
culminating in the crowning of the Coral
Queen.
Mackay, indeed, has everything for
culture: a racecourse which holds
meetings every second week for a club
which dates back before the first Mel-
bourne Cup. It has regula- trotting, drive-
in movie, an Olympic swimming pool
(being completed this year) and—final
coping stone in the structure of any
civilisation—a zoo at Faversville (com-
plete with merry-go-round), an aquarium
of tronical fish and one of the finest shell
collections in the north.
Sugar History
The whole place reeks of prosperity,
which is very real. The existing shires
and city of Mackay which form the
Mackay economic area cover 6772
square miles and support nearly 50,000
people.
In the coastal sugar belt cane was first
grown in 1865 by John Spiller, the first
commercial sugar being produced at the
Alexandra Mill opened by Thomas Fitz-
gerald and J. E. Davidson in 1868. The
fight against pests, rust, and for the
development of new canes, and the
evolution of sugar technique are all part
of the history of Mackay district which
produces about 330,000 tons of sugar
a year—a quarter of Queensland’s output.
The mill centres themselves have been
beautified and stand in enchanting settle-
ments forming the kernels of chessboard
fields of alternate red and green. There
are now eight mills in the Mackay-
Sarina-Proserpine areas —six co-operative
and two owned by private companies,
their operations knitted into the complex
sugar organisation of the State. The
whole industry is rapidly becoming
mechanised, whereby it loses some of its
tougher and more picturesque features.
“Our Harbor”
TTuman labor in planting among the
district’s 1800 sugar growers has been
superseded by locally made machines.
Mechanical loaders have come into gene-
ral use and though nearly 90 per cent
of the district’s cane is still cut by hand,
the cane cutter is being rapidly replaced
by the two types of mechanical cutter —
the “whole stick” variety which brings
down the cane and lays it in bundles on
the ground and the “chopper harvesters”
which slice it into short lengths and pack
it into bins on trailers. Both these are
local inventions. The choppers can
handle up to 90 tons of cane a day.
Progress goes on and Mackay is the
home of the Sugar Research Institute
founded in 1953 and Sarina the site of
the power alcohol industry, which distils
5 million tons of ethyl alcohol a year
from surplus molasses.
The effluent of all the wealth of
Mackay, whether derived from sugar or
from the cattle industry which produces
increasing quantities of some of the best
beef in the State or from dairying which
has homes both up in the Eungella
Region and in the Sarina Peninsula is
the famous Mackay Harbor which owed
its formation to the fact that the city
had been wise enough to choose the late
William Forgan Smith, that enterprising
Scottish house-painter immigrant, as its
member in the Legislative Assembly.
The harbor was completed at a cost of
21,600,000 and was opened on August
26, 1939. It has an area of 185
acres, with central pier and breast wharf
and can accommodate vessels up to
20,000 tons and all the usual industries
associated with harbors—sugar terminal,
fertiliser plant, oil tankage—have been
built on highly modern lines at its entry
around the railway complex that links it
to Mackay.
The sugar terminal shed is 1000 feet
long, 150 feet wide and 87 feet high
and has a capacity of 150,000 tons —it
handles the whole of the 330,000 tons of
sugar produced per annum in the
district. The imports which pass through
the port are mostly volatiles —44,000
tons of fuels and oils, fertilisers and iron
and steel. It is an indication of the
growing importance of the tourist trade
that exports to island tourist resorts last
year were worth £350,000.
Industry and the New Century
The cattle industry of the region grows
rapidly in importance and since the
opening of an export abattoir near the
city, the area from which meat is being
sucked through the port of Mackay is
expanding.
Cotton is looked to as a future staple
in this area, especially since it combines
well with the cattle industry which can
use its residues, and subsidiary cattle
fattening feeds can be grown in the
district. In dairying, the Eungella Range
country can be compared favorably with
the NSW North Coast. Some cane
farmers supplement their income with
dairying and pigs are coming into vogue.
The whole district is electrified,
mechanised, transportised and civilised.
It has 13,000 electricity consumers in a
population of round 50,000. Mackay
with North Mackay among 22,000 has
3000 telephone subscribers.
Electrification has made possible al-
ready a great deal of the secondary
industry which has grown up since the
war, and the needs of secondary industry
in turn have led to the integration of
the hitherto locally generated electrical
supply with that of Townsville and parts
further north where the ETydro-electric
potential of the rivers of the tablelands
behind Cairns is being tapped.
It may be a flat city like Adelaide, but
like Adelaide it has shown the capacity
to breed the kind of ministers and
premier who look after it. Like Adelaide,
as well as being flat, it is flat out and
hell-bent towards expansion and self-
supplied within reach of its arm with
everything that makes for self-sufficiency.


Around Melbourne
THE GREAT BANK ROBBERY
VIIe Melburnians almost take a
pride in our bank robberies. We
do them rather better than anybody
else. We have just had the biggest
bank robbery in the history of the
country, more than <£40,000 stolen
from an ES and A bank in the city.
Then on August 7, 1952, there was
the £33,593 robbery still unsolved,
from a Mayne Nickless armored car
in the city. On March 29 last year
£31,000 was stolen from a Mayne
Nickless truck that was delivering a
payroll to the State offices.
These were Australian records, ad-
mittedly not in world class. After all,
in the famed Boston Brinks robbery
of 1950 the robbers got away with
$2, 775,395 12 cents. Our Melburnian
robbers showed no unnecessary greed.
There is no record of their having
stolen any pennies or halfpennies.
The branch of the ES and A bank
in question is at the corner of Russell
St. and Flinders Lane. The bank is in
a most respectable part of town. The
Temperance and General Insurance
Company is opposite. It is only two
doors away from the Women’s Chris-
tian Temperance Union and three
doors from the Young Women’s
Christian Association.
Yet it is sad to report that Mel-
burnians have looked on this robbery
with admiration. Perhaps it is the TV
influence, but armchair connoisseurs
noted that nobody was hurt, no shots
were fired, nothing was broken,
twisted or bent. One could only feel
for the ES and A. The public, except
for robbers, have very little under-
standing of the inner workings of a
bank.
The clear line that divides right
and wrong becomes blurred. In their
naive way Melburnians think the
banks have plenty and there
have even been cartoons on the sub-
ject. As one character put it “Geez,
it’s like pinching water from a spring”.
But the fascinating part about the
robbery is the number of keys that
were used. On the Wednesday one
paper reported that six keys were
used. On the Wednesday afternoon
another police roundsman hit back
with 17 keys, but a third police
roundsman was far from defeated and
on the Thursday morning it was an-
nounced that actually 21 keys were
used.
Here again there was levity and
supercilious Melburnians wondered
whether the thieves sang:
“I’ve got the key of the door
Never had 21 before.”
There was no advance on 21 and
this was the breakdown for the keys
used:
Two keys were used to open the
front door, one key for the padlock
for the outer grille of the strong room,
two keys for the strong room door,
six keys for the three safes in the
strong room, nine keys for the draw-
ers in the strong room safes and one
key to the bank rear door out on to
Flinders Lane.
To the armchair connoisseurs it
seemed surprising that one thief could
ever have acquired such a marvellous
key collection. The bank’s Chief
Victorian Manager, Mr S. A. von
Bertouch, put forward the theory that
perhaps someone, not now connected
with the bank, collected the keys over
many years.
But it is curious that all this should
have happened at the height of the
bank employees’ battle to have the
banks closed in Victoria on Saturday
mornings. However, in the meantime,
the bank robbers seem determined to
have the banks open in the evenings.
★ ★ ★
We have a society in our midst
called the Australian Railway Histori-
cal Society. This society adores old
steam engines and it has even gone so
far as to produce an LF record titled
“Steam On The Five Foot Three”.
For something like 45 minutes this
record gives off nothing but an appal-
ling collection of rattlings, hissings
and shuntings. It has been recom-
mended to members that they might
buy two copies one to play now
and one to keep in mint condition for
posterity when (sob) there will be no
steam engines.
While sometimes it is not always
possible to see the point of this enthu-
siasm for old steam engines, the point
of the Puffing Billy society is more
obvious. The old-time narrow gauge
2 ft. 6 in. railway lines in Victoria
have closed down one by one. They
have little merit as railways but they
ran through the loveliest mountain
country in the State.
The most famous of all the trains
was Puffing Billy. Puffing Billy had
great charm and looked as if it had
been designed especially for Disney-
land. It ran through the Dandenong
Ranges from Upper Ferntree Gully to
Gembrook. In 1953 there was a land-
slide which blocked the line between
Ferntree Gully and Menzies Creek.
The train service was suspended and
then the railways announced the
whole line would be closed.
In a town where the people are
extremely difficult to move the outcry
was tremendous. There were offers of
money, help and labor. The Puffing
Billy Preservation Society came into
being and it has remained a powerful
organisation ever since. Through the
Society’s efforts Puffing Billy ran
from Upper Ferntree Gully to Bel-
grave from 1954 to 1958. Then the
railways decided to put electric trains
through this section and Puffing Billy
has been out of a job ever since.
Yet this society has achieved fan-
tastic things even to the point of
moving parliamentary and government
officials. Since 1958 the object has
been to re-open the line from Bel-
grave to Lakeside. The Puffing Billy
Society has talked army engineers into
working on the track as a training
exercise and 500 rover scouts came to
the party during the Rover Moot at
Wonga Park. They have moved sta-
tions, put up new buildings, laid 350
yards of new track and the now old
Puffing Billy will start running again
in July.
Last week after a refit at the New-
port railway workshops Puffing Billy
was put on a flatbed truck and taken
up to the Dandenongs. There were
happy reports that dear, old Puffing
Billy, carriages and all, looked down-
right pretty, back there in the Dan-
denongs. Members of the Preserva-
tion Society who had given up their
week-ends for year after year could
hardly wait to get there and see for
themselves.
In the true Australian tradition
vandals already had gone to work.
They found 14 windows had been
smashed.
Life is far from easy for preser-
vation societies.
BATMAN


OVERSEAS
Peking throws a switch and Hong Kong's refugees dry up at the source
From DENNIS BLOODWORTH in Hong Kong
Peking has thrown a switch and
Hong Kong’s ordeal seems to be
over. The flood of Chinese refu-
gees that poured down to the frontier of
the British Colony during most of May
has been dammed at the source. The
Communists are no longer giving exit per-
mits freely, and their border guards are
once more effectively stopping illegal
migrants from crossing the wire.
But now comes the real test. It re-
mains to be seen whether the free world
will comfortably forget this short-lived
episode, or whether its conscience has at
last been shocked into tackling the per-
manent, underlying problem with which
Hong Kong has been wrestling almost
single-handed for the past 12 years.
The territory under the jurisdiction of
the British officials in Hong Kong covers
considerably less than half the area of
Luxembourg but already has ten times
the population. Much of it consists of
barren, rocky islands and steep, bare
mountains of volcanic lava and porphyry.
Only about 60 square miles of it can be
cultivated. Natural resources are limited
to building stone, fish in the surrounding
sea, and small quantities of minerals.
The Colony suffers from a permanent
water shortage, so aggravated at the
moment that water is only available
during four hours of the day, and further
cuts in the ration are expected. Hong
Kong buys 5,000 million gallons of water
from Communist China every year, piped
into the colony from the Shumchun re-
servoir across the border. Otherwise it
depends on local catchments and reser-
voirs to collect rain. The dry season lasts
seven months.
In 1931, a census year, there were
840,000 people in the colony. Today
there are some 3,200,000, and one mil-
lion of these are refugees from China
and their children. The Hong Kong
Government has made prodigious efforts
to provide shelter, sanitation, food, water,
medical care and schooling for its bloated
population, and half-a-million refugee
squatters have been resettled in new
quarters —often seven-storey blocks with
communal facilities.
But the natural increase in Hong
Kong, quite apart from the legal annual
immigration from China of 18,000
Chinese, means that there are about
100,000 mouths more to feed every year.
In the crowded sister cities of Victoria
and Kowloon, which face one another
across Hong Kong harbor, two million
people are so densely packed that in some
quarters there are 3,000 inhabitants to
the acre. It is estimated that in five years’
time the population will have passed the
four million mark. Even today, there
are still 500,000 squatters to be resettled,
120,000 children for whom schools must
be built. More than 60,000 refugees are
believed to be suffering from active
tuberculosis, and nine out of ten among
the others are infected.
The annual revenue of the Hong Kong
Government is less than £6O million.
It must spend more than half this figure
on public works and social welfare if the
Colony is not to be “submerged” by its
rising population, and in addition pay up
to £l2 million a year for rice imports.
Hong Kong’s own agricultural output is
only sufficient to feed the people for
about one month in every twelve.
Where does the money come from?
Between 1950 and 1951 the annual total
of commercial shipping arriving in
“Fragrant Harbour”, as the name Hong
Kong so inaptly means, dropped by one
million tons; following the outbreak of
the Korean war the United Nations
placed embargos on exports to China.
The Americans also banned Chinese
products into the US shipped through
Hong Kong, and China herself began to
cut out the British free port and develop
direct trade with foreign countries.
No longer able to depend on her
entrepot commerce and her free port
status, Hong Kong built up a successful
light industry and began exporting every-
thing from cotton piece goods to artificial
flowers. But clothing and textiles, which
have accounted recently for more than
50 per cent, of export earnings and
employed 30 per cent, of the Colony’s
industrial labor force, have been hard hit
by import restrictions and a system of
voluntary “restraints” imposed by Britain,
Canada and the United States to protect
their own mills from competition. Yet
Hong Kong’s exports must increase by
10 per cent, a year if the Colony is to
shelter and care for the refugees already
granted asylum. Meanwhile jobs are so
scarce and applicants so numerous that
an unskilled worker may be engaged for
as little as four shillings a day.
This is the real economic picture
behind the Hong Kong of the tourist.
It explains the low, cut-throat prices that
delight dollar-toting shoppers, the satis-
fyingly quick service of those who know
ten men are ready to take their job if
they fail, the eight small boys who all


try to open the same taxi door at once
in order to earn a penny tip, the plenitude
of bar girls, taxi-dancers, Suzie Wongs.
The blame for this situation does not
rest with China alone. Nor does it rest
with the Hong Kong Government. The
ludicrous failure of the United Nations,
the International Refugee Year, and the
multitudinous organisations of the world’s
do-gooders to provide any solution for
this pressing problem during the past
twelve years—confined to 391 square
miles of the planet’s surface as it is—
speaks for itself.
★
In another report from Hong Kong
Hedlev Rhodes says that Formosa’s offers
of aid to refugees are not as good as
they look. . . .
Tn Taipeh, Formosa’s capital, the
Premier, and concurrently Vice-Presi-
dent, Chen Cheng has declared that
Formosa would accept refugees fleeing
from Communist China who wanted to
settle in Formosa. Chen Cheng also
announced an offer of 1000 tons of rice
to the Hong Kong Government for
refugee relief rations.
Chen Cheng’s offer to accept refugees
specifies that they should be persons
wanting to settle in Formosa. The bulk
of escapees are Cantonese - speaking
farmers who do not understand “kuo yu”
(the national language) or the Formosan
dialect, and who are not likely to accept
the idea of resettling anywhere very far
from their ancestral homes.
Looking at Formosa itself, it is highly
possible that Chen Cheng was pressured
into making an offer the authorities
hoped they would never have to honor.
. Formosa is an island of slightly less
than 14,000 square miles supporting
some 11,500,000 people.
Its population is increasing at least
3.5 per cent, annually, faster than the
increase in food production, and last
year the island moved from a food
surplus to a food deficit area. Although
the island is large, 240 miles long and
80 wide, only about one-third, mostly
along the western coastal plain, is arable.
There is virtually no reclaimable or
virgin land where development is
economically feasible, so the resettlement
of the refugees as farmers seems out.
Formosan industry, helped by Ameri-
can aid injection, has grown considerably
in the past decade. But industry now, as
is the case in many other countries, is
in a slump and employment chances slim.
Having accepted only about 14,000
permanent residents from Hong Kong in
the past decade, the Nationalists are now
forced to put on a show of being willing
to accept more. They can be counted on
to do their best to get the US to foot
the bills for the transportation and
resettlement of any they do take, as well
as any shipments of relief food.
DE GAULLE AND KENNEDY
The Third Force v the "Grand Design"
From GODFREY HODGSON in Washington
President Kennedy has gone out of
his way to offer Europe a choice:
between General de Gaulle’s
narrow conception of Europe as a Third
Force, and his own “Grand Design” for
an Atlantic Community. This has be-
come more than an idea for the Presi-
dent and his advisers; it is a policy. They
are, of course, keenly aware of European
sensitiveness. Even now, it is clear that
the Administration has no fixed views
about the details or the timing of the
way Europe and America should move
closer together. But the key to Mr Ken-
nedy’s whole foreign policy is that they
should move together and not apart.
It was because he felt that General
de Gaulle was actually moving in the
wrong direction that the President spoke
out recently. At his Press conference, he
said he would regret anything that would
divide Europe from America. I believe
that the ocean should unite rather than
divide”. When he saw the transcript of
his conference, however, he decided that
he had not been plain enough. At the
last minute he added specific and out-
spoken political statements to a speech
he was scheduled to give that night on
the Trade Bill.
Remarkable as the Administration’s
success with the Trade Bill seems to have
been (it is not out of the Congressional
wood yet) it is only one element in the
“Grand Design”. The idea of an Atlantic
Community touches almost every aspect
of President Kennedy’s thinking. It is
the key to his proposals for helping the
underdeveloped continent as well as to
sharing America’s cold war burden and
keeping the peace through strategic
strength.
The President believes that agricultural
surpluses, monetary problems, measures
to flatten the economic booms and
slumps—all could be tackled with a loose
but effective Atlantic Community as a
base. History, he has said, is on the side
of this design. “The direction of our
destiny is towards community and con-
fidence—and the United States is deter-
mined to fulfil that destiny.”
The President also explicitly— and cer-
tainly sincerely—disclaimed an ambition
which is sometimes attributed to him in
France. “We have no wish,” he said, “to
join, much less to dominate, the Euro-
pean Community.” Nevertheless, he has
no intention of letting his design fail by
default. He seems particularly irritated
by De Gaulle’s brandishing of his
nuclear “force de frappe”. He has pointed
out sharply that the Europeans have not
yet said they want to do without Ameri-
can military protection. He said with
scorn at his Press conference: “I have
not heard anyone suggest that the United
States withdraw from Europe,” and he
came back to the point in the evening:
“A coherent policy cannot call for both
our military presence and our diplomatic
absence”.
At the recent NATO meetings in
Athens, the US Secretary of Defence, Mr
McNamara, deliberately impressed the
Europeans—on the President's instruc-
tions —with a catalogue of American
might. All this is available for your pro-
tection, he implied, but not so that you
can use your freedom to play political
games with us.
The French attitude to Britain’s ap-
plication to join the Common Market is
another occasion of the President's worry
and irritation —but one he intends to stay
out of as far as he can. President de
Gaulle’s and Dr Adenauer’s attitude to
American policy on Berlin is yet another.
But it is not so much any single issue as
the accumulating evidence of de Gaulle’s
desire to move away from America that
has alarmed the President and made him
speak out.
Three powerful articles by Walter
Lippmann, based, it is believed, on an
interview with de Gaulle himself, as well
as with other politicians, have helped to
put urgency into an issue which is being
called the most serious breach in the
alliance since Suez. Lippmann wrote of
the General and the Chancellor as the
“two old kings”. Young Mr Kennedy is
aware of the difference in age. He will
not try to bludgeon or cajole the old
kings into line. He is aware of the many
forces in Europe which are profoundly
opposed to de Gaulle and his motions.
President Kennedy wants to help those
forces in Europe that are on his side by
making it plain, as President Eisenhower
might have said, that on the major
question, Together or Apart, Europe must
in the end either fish or cut bait.


NEW STRATEGIES IN VIETNAM
Thousands of villages will become anti-Communist strongholds
From JOHN STIRLING in Saigon
The lives of at least five million
peasants will be affected by the
latest and most drastic plan to
counter Vietcong (Communist) terrorism
in South Vietnam—the converting of
thousands of villages into anti-Commu-
nist strongholds. President Ngo Dinh
Diem’s Government has announced that
it will create 16,000 “strategic hamlets”
by the end of next year.
There will be two main types of
strategic hamlet (in Vietnam, the hamlet
is the smallest administrative unit, three
or four hamlets making up a village). In
areas where Communist infiltration is
light, and where the majority of the
peasants are loyal to the Government,
the hamlets will simply be surrounded
with an earth rampart and barbed-wire
fence. Only a few villagers, away from
the centre of the community, may be
obliged to move their homes and chattels
inside. But in zones of intense Com-
munist activity, where Government con-
trol is only sporadic, completely new
villages will be constructed, and whole
communities will be moved —by force,
if necessary—into them.
The pilot project is being carried out
in Binh Duong province, immediately
north of Saigon. This is a “black area”
on the fringes of the Vietcong stronghold
known as Zone D. The villagers who live
in the palm-thatched huts of Binh Duong,
tilling their small plots of rice, or work-
ing as tappers in the rubber estates, have
been under continuous Vietcong pressure
since the beginning of the Indo-China
war in 1946. At best, they are reluctant
allies of the Government. At worst, they
provide recruits, food and intelligence for
the terrorist forces.
The first phase of the project in Binh
Duong was a sweep through the area
by troops assisted by American helicop-
ters. The second stage was the removal
of the inhabitants from Communist-
dominated villages to a new area, where
no settlement had existed before. The
third stage, which is continuing, is the
rehabilitation and protection of the new
community.
Officials admit that less than half the
population moved voluntarily. Many of
the young men remained with the Viet-
cong terrorists. To recover these lost
sheep, leaflets were dropped by the Viet-
namese Air Force over the jungles. At
the same time, the Government and its
American advisers were saturating the
“regrouped” villagers with propaganda
and gifts. An army psychological warfare
unit reiterated that the villagers would
now be more secure and prosperous than
ever before. The American aid mission
allocated $300,000 for the resettlement
of the 1200 people. Some of this has
already been distributed in the form of
matting and timber for new huts, farm
implements, pigs and poultry. But most
of the money will be spent on feeding
the villagers until their new land is
producing. The first results are encourag-
ing. Thirteen families which avoided re-
groupment by fleeing into Zone D, have
joined the new settlement of their own
free will.
Around the new village, an earthen
rampart eight feet high and a mile-and-
a-quarter long has been thrown up. It
is topped by a single-strand barbed wire
fence, and the outer surface of the ram-
part has a porcupine dressing of sharp-
ened bamboo spikes. As a further ob-
stacle, a ditch is now being excavated
outside the wall. Until the fixed defences
are complete, the village is protected by
two companies of commandos, two com-
panies of civil guards, an armored car
unit, and a battery of 105 mm. howit-
zers.
But in a week or two the garrison will
move on, to help clear other “black
areas,” and to guard other regroupment
centres. With the help of a few civil
guards and self-defence guerillas, these
1200 people will have to defend them-
selves, and at the same time bring their
new land under the plough, and raise
their first crops. For them, “Operation
Sunrise” —as the project is called —is
the beginning of a long, hard day. At
any moment, the village may become
the target of a mass attack by Communist
forces. In the weeks ahead the crucial
factor in this village will be morale.
Both the Vietnamese Government and
the American Embassy in Saigon realise
that merely to shift people into fortified
villages is not enough. The new com-
munities must be given an economic and
moral raison d’etre, as well as protection
against the Vietcong. If not, the terror
ists, who are infiltrating into the strategic
hamlets, will be able to convince the
villagers that they were better off outside.
The great danger facing the scheme is
that the peasants may regard them as
prison camps rather than miniature wel-
fare states. Creating the defences of
16,000 hamlets is no problem, since
labor is plentiful in Vietnam, and the
US will gladly pay for the materials. A
shortage of another kind is worrying offi-
cials. One of them said: “Our problem
is to find enough cadres (trained teams)
to raise the standard of life in every
strategic hamlet.”
Within the next few months thousands
of rural cadres will have to be recruited,
to explain to the peasants how they will
benefit from the project, and to prove it
to them by distributing better seeds, tools
and livestock, and by setting up markets,
baby clinics and schools. The main im-
pact of this “motive-forming” phase will
be felt by South Vietnam’s Department
of Civic Action. This department is
notoriously one of the weakest in the
Administration. One province chief re-
marked about the civic action cadres who
visited his province: “They are city
people who have no idea of the farmer’s
needs. They read lessons to the villagers,
as though they were small children”.
Teams like these can scarcely compete
with the Vietcong, whose cadres live
among the peasants and who understand
their problems intimately
The success or failure of the scheme
will depend on the quality of the civilian
teams which follow the first military
phase. They are the ambassadors of
President Diem’s Government; and in
some areas will be the villagers’ first
regular contact with the regime. Speaking
of the strategic hamlets, the President
said recently: “In time, the villagers will
appreciate the improvement in their wel-
fare, and look to us as their Govern-
ment”. If this is achieved, there will still
remain the problem of 20,000 Vietcong
terrorists. But the armed Communists
will have been isolated from the mass of
the people—and that is nine-tenths of the
battle in South Vietnam.


,tkN fKBM *
f4sy WAY
No textbook can teaeli you to SPEAK a foreign lunguage
correctly. To do that you must HEAR the rhythm, the
lilt, the everyday speech by ordinary people. Lingua-
phone teaches you by this quick, thorough, effortless
method. You learn by LISTENING to the voices of
expert native teachers on gramophone records, following
the words in the illustrated textbook. In half the usual
time, this method enables you to SPEAK, READ and
WRITE the language—and above all. to understand it
when spoken. There is no formal learning. From the
start you are thrown into the conversational atmosphere
of the boulevard and cafe.
m
I’ut in fifteen min-
utes a day. and in
a few weeks you
can express yourself
freely in the lan-
guage of your
choice. Find out all
about the unique,
modern method of
learning. Post the
coupon below for a
free illustrated
booklet describing the Linguaphone language courses
and Week’s Free Trial Offer.
Linguaphone
For LANGUAGES
Linguaphone Institute Pty. Ltd., 1
359 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Fleming Place,
off
Please send me without obligation your free illustrated
booklet of the Linguaplione method of learning languages
I am interested in FRENCH □ GERMAN f~| ITALIAN rl
SPANISH Q U
or
NAME
(34 languages available)
ADDRESS
B. 9/6/62
THE NEW COLONIALISM
Asians and the "Herrenvolk" instinct
From DENNIS BLOODWORTH in Singapore
As the tide of Western colonialism
recedes in Asia, it leaves exposed
the Herrenvolk instincts of those
Asian leaders who were so quick to
complain of oppression by their former
European masters.
In Vietnam representatives of some 18
principal minority peoples including
the Chams who once held sway ovei
most of South Indo-China—swear fealty
to President Ngo Dinh Diem, just as the\
did to French Governors-General in the
past. A staked-out buffalo is slaughtered,
and the blood smeared on the President’s
highly-polished shoes; a medicine man
performs a complicated rite, there are
elephant races, much drinking through
bamboo straws from tall urns filled with
powerful rice wine. Vietnamese domina-
tion is formally acknowledged for an-
other year.
This may be unexceptionable. On the
other hand, the Indonesians, while still
heaping reproaches on the Dutch, are
at the same time arrogating to themselves
the right to “administer” the primitive
Papuans of West New Guinea. The
Indians, whose Defence Minister, Mr
Krishna Menon, has only recently ac-
cused British Army generals of plotting
with Pakistan to re-establish colonialism
in India, have themselves attempted to
suppress rebel Naga tribesmen in Assam.
In Burma, where people still recoil
rom the memory of British colonial rule,
the Government has met with trigger-
happy troops any rebellious demand for
greater autonomy advanced by the highly
developed minority peoples in the hills.
The Shan leader whom they made Presi-
dent of the country when it was first
granted independence is now in gaol, and
his young son was shot dead in Rangoon
by Burmese soldiers three months ago.
The picture is not entirely black. In
Malaya the predominantly Malay Govern-
ment has actively undertaken the respon-
sibility of educating and helping the
aborigines. The Saigon Government is
anxious to enlist the sympathy of the
mountain tribes of South Vietnam against
the Vietcong insurgents—and has stopped
lumping them all together and calling
them “Mois” (savages).
The minority races of China and North
Vietnam have been obliged to accept
Communist rule, but their neo-colonisa-
tion has been disguised by the setting up
of autonomous or semi-autonomous
regions and zones, in which, moreover,
they are not usually forced to undergo
harsh and sudden changes in their tradi-
tional way of life.
It must be accepted that the Govern-
ments of the emergent independent States
of Asia can only preserve their unity if
they establish firm, nation-wide adminis-
trations. But too often they have been
inflexible, domineering, and contemp-
tuous in their treatment of weaker races
within their frontiers. Local demands
have been met with an uncaring shrug,
and subsequent revolts brutally put down.
The Tibetans, the Nagas, the Shans and
Karens in Burma, and the Minangkebau
of Sumatra have all been taught forcibly
that for many nationalist rulers in Asia
“independence” is a warcry to be used
only against the West, and even “auto-
nomy” and “federalism” are dirty words
when directed against their own cen-
tralised power.


FORUM
CATHOLICS IN AUSTRALIA
The new left fights medievalism
and reaction in the old right
By JOHN MANNING
MR. SANTAMARIA and his Movement can claim the success of splitting the fabu-
lous Catholic monolith that had been conjured in the imaginations of an over-
whelming majority of Australians, both Catholic and non-Catholic. Fortunately,
the cracks in the monolith enable us to get a clearer picture of Australian Catholicism;
also, an occasional glance at the doings of Catholics in the United States will help
clarify Catholic trends in the English-speaking world.
Basically, it would appear that the Movement and its latter-day-saint, the National
Civic Council, go contrary to democratic principles. For example: the stacked politi-
cal party with certain members carrying out the directives of a non-party agent, Mr
S. Although the form of such organisations varies, they should be recognised for what
they are. groups dangerous to the proper functioning of democratic government. All
who claim to be democrats must be mindful that democracy provides the means of
righting public evils: free criticism of such evils, backed up by political action within
the democratic concept.
As recent history bears witness Mr
Santamaria and his groups have been
opposed on a number of fronts. Some
bishops of his own Church are bitter in
their opposition; and the Labor Party
has anathematized his activities. Ideo-
logically, however, the “Catholic Worker”
has been his greatest foe. The “Worker”
is cocky in its grapplings with him; some
of its board members can look back
over the last 20 years and hardly lose
sight of him for an instant.
The “Worker” now finds itself a little
“left” of centre. In the ’thirties it was
inspired by Chesterbelloc ideas but now
it imbibes the weekly message of “Com-
monweal,” an American Catholic lay
publication, and studies carefully the ut-
terances of its episcopal favorite, John
Wright, Bishop of Pittsburgh. The
“Worker” has among its regular contri-
butors some of the most erudite lay
Catholics in Australia; Melbourne acade-
mics, Vincent Buckley and Max Charles-
worth, in particular, have blasted the
Santamaria cult as being outside the pale
of responsible intellectuals. In the long
run the “Worker” will win; and if Arch-
bishop Justin Simonds ever takes over the
See of Melbourne, Mr Santamaria’s “offi-
cial” Catholic support will be swiftly
terminated.
TJrobably there are some who think if
the Movement breach were healed
Catholics would be monolithically housed
once again. But this is not so. The
philosophical eruptions of recent months
in the Catholic Press indicate robust
“left” and “right” adherents.
Rigid Thomists of the Aquinas Aca-
demy, Sydney, inspired by Dr Austin
Woodbury, have built up a solid school
of medieval philosophy and have scorned
the philosophy of the secular universities.
Dr Austin Woodbury is the Aquinas
Academy. He is a member of the Society
of Mary, the Marist Fathers, whose great
church, St Patrick’s, Church Hill, is a
Sydney landmark. But the intellectual
home of Father Woodbury is with the
Dominicans; there can be no doubt he
is the authority in Australia on the great
Dominican, St Thomas Aquinas. Some
Dominicans claim he has few peers in
the world as an Aquinas scholar.
The learned Dr Woodbury, however, is
not without his Catholic critics. It is ad-
mitted, even by his critics, that Father
Woodbury is one of the most loved and
respected priests in Sydney; nevertheless,
a number of Catholics have felt moved
to criticize his medieval methods, and
claim his personality has had a frustrat-
ing effect on Catholics attending his
courses.
It is alleged that the Aquinas Academy
has become an ivory tower with its ab-
solutism —distinct from a necessary ab-
solutism—in the world of relative ideas.
The Academy has long placed a virtual
boycott on the philosophy department at
Sydney. It would appear that the Aca-
demy has no sympathy for the pluralist
society, the present world of reality. John
Courtney Murray, the outstanding Ameri-
can Jesuit, and outstanding spokesman
of Catholic thinking on pluralism, would
not rank as a “pin-up” in Academy
reckonings.
An indication of Academy thinking is
the support, ideologically and practically,
it has given to the DLP. This is not so
strange, as the DLP is just the kind of
political party to suit the Academy ethos:
a small group of absolutists at the top,
and a blind obedience from the ground-
lings. Fundamentally, the weakness at the
Academy rests in the error of giving
such prominence to medieval pedagogics
with its rote learning; such a narrow
interpretation of Thomism finds almost
no point of contact in the academic and
intellectual life of the present time. These
methods have caused concern in the semi-
nary training of priests; seminarians have
often spent nearly their whole course
trying to master medieval methods, and
later as priests find such methods cannot
be communicated to the laity. It is a
double frustration since the priest finds
he is unable to convey the heart and soul
of his theology, and the better educated
among the congregation feel they are
being cheated of their rightful theological
development.
Tn Rome during the middle of the last
A century Newman experienced this dif-
ficulty of communication. Newman’s
agility of mind and his great learning
could not penetrate the dry philosophy
and theology of an intellectually inert
Rome. In fact Newman was so misun-
derstood that his orthodoxy was suspect
in certain Catholic places.
But even in isolated Australia the
Catholic “left” have in the last decade be-
come philosophically “weaned”. A small
group of Catholic graduates from Oxford
and Louvain have returned to Australia
and made notable contacts with the Aus-
tralian universities. This new philosophical
wing is a lay and clerical mixture. At
Sydney we find Father Burnheim, Rector
of St John’s College, and Mr William
Ginnane, winner of an Archbishop
Mannix scholarship taken out at Oxford,
both members of the philosophy
department. In Melbourne the position
is almost similar, Dr Max Charlesworth,
Louvain by way of an Archbishop Man-
nix scholarship, and Father Eric DArcy,
recently back from Oxford, are both
lecturing in philosophy at the University.
Apparently Dr Burnheim finds his
Catholicism and priesthood no bar to
being on the staff of the Philosophy
Department at Sydney. It is certain that
the Kinsella outbursts got some of their


Established 1868
Concracto rs to Government Municipal,
shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
its
jACK&ON $,
qSUELIVam
f’TY
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
typographers
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Always ask for
AIN S LIE’S
SCOTCH WHISKY
AGENTS:
Halloran Manton Ptv. ltd.,
Pitt, Son & Badgery Ltd.,
Sydney.
HELP
LEGACY
all the year round.
Donations: 169 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney. BM 2001. *
stiffest opposition from Burnheim, Gin-
nane and their supporters. Dr Kinsella is
a prominent member of the Woodbury
school and his attack on the Philosophy
Department at Sydney was in fact only
giving a public airing to the long standing
Academy war-cry.
It is hardy philosophy that Dr Kin-
sella is talking about; odd quips by a
staff member quickly brought moral
philosophy within the department under
attack, and the learned medico wanted
some sort of clamp to be put on those
who do not subscribe to some supposed
“orthodoxy” concerning philosophical
proofs of the existence of God. Catho-
lics on the other wing to Kinsella feel
shocked that these outbursts have been
canonized as “the” Catholic viewpoint—
such weighty Anglican support was
somewhat embarrassing when in fact
they would get faint hearing in respected
Catholic circles overseas.
Apart from the divergencies among
Catholics in the political and philisophical
orders, the recent domestic upheaval at
the Genesian Theatre, that noted and
respected Sydney little theatre group of
Catholics, demonstrates yet another ex-
ample of “left” and “right” thinking.
Mr James Lang was by far the most out-
standing name associated with the Gene-
sians, and his productions often got
“rave” notices from the Sydney critics.
Above all, Mr Lang was interested in
standards were important; the big, and
ity of Catholic theatrical circles got little
sympathy from him; he was no icono-
clast, but standards had to be maintained.
As Lang and the Genesians had been
following these lines for so long the
news of a domestic clash in the Group
came as a great surprise. Father Thorne,
the Chaplain, did not see that theatre
standards were important, the big, and
really the only, priority was morals.
Father Thorne was most concerned
that the plays staged would not have any
harmful effects on teenagers. Mr Lang
did not oppose his Chaplain here as he
had always been meticulous about this
matter; but good theatre placed demands
other than morals on a producer. Mr
Lang with his concern for standards must
have seemed horribly “left” to the Pastor
of Erskineville; and so the Genesian
Theatre, as Sydney knew it, is no more.
Lang and his friends have departed.
Left and Right factions among Aus-
tralian Catholics look somewhat tame
alongside current Catholic ideological
warfare in the United States. Now that
Catholicism has become adult in America
we are beginning to see many of the
things taken for granted in the Catholic
life of Europe: the laity are having their
say, and the bishops are hitting out at the
recalcitrant.
William Buckley has by far the
heaviest lay ammunition, and he has been
firing away in daring fashion. It is some
10 years since Buckley first showed
his mettle with his “God, Man and Yale.”
Family wealth enabled him to found
“National Review” which is probably the
most respected sounding board of the
“Right,” and America is not lacking vocal
points for such ideologies. But it is
Buckley’s “Catholicism of the Right”
that is our current interest.
¥>ope John issues an encyclical “Mater
et Magistra” and Buckley does not
like its mild socialism. Mr Buckley simply
refuses to hold his ground, and openly
criticizes this social document. All very
different from the days of W. G. Ward
whose ideal breakfast was said to consist
of bacon and eggs, the “Times” and a
Papal Bull. But Buckley lives and does
not lose his head, and just to show his
form he was a recent critic of the
pamphlet: “Communism: Threat to Free-
dom,” issued by Father John F. Cronin
of the National Catholic Welfare Confer-
ence in Washington, the most influential
episcopal body in the United States.
Cronin was hitting against the “Right”
and its fanatical anti-communism.
While 36-year-old Buckley takes a
“Right” stance, the 85-year-old and near-
blind Archbishop Rummel of New Or-
leans becomes firmly entrenched on the
“left”. It all started when the Arch-
bishop said “all”—and even in the South
that includes negroes—children were free
to attend his parochial schools. This
proved too much for a hard core of
Catholics who seemed to like the South
African way of doing things much better.
As it has turned out the old man of
New Orleans was not going to be out-
done. He made it quite clear that those
who opposed his order would be ex-
communicated. This must have sounded
like the Inquisition of another age to
segregationists in the South. But when
obedience to his order was not forth-
coming the Archbishop did not waver
and the terrible penalty was inflicted on
a handful of southerners. This action of
the Archbishop must have been one of
the most painful of his life, but it has
given stature and meaning to a notable
Christian ethic.
It is only a few years ago that “ghetto”
and “monolith” were used as terms of
Catholic criticism. Today these terms are
no longer valid. Catholics are becoming
a vital force in the English-speaking
world, and the above episodes give a
healthy indication of the diversity of
thought current in modern Catholicism.
The clock will not be turned back; medi-
evalism in the bad sense is disappearing,
never to return. Catholics are no longer
shooting down Protestants and Masons;
they are too busy shooting among them-
selves.


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
CATCHING THEM YOUNG
Sir,
Western Australia has been suffering
for some years from the immature com-
ments of young journalists who assume
the role of drama critics. Our State’s
most recent acquisition in this respect is
Mary Lord, who wrote in your column
on the Catholic Schools’ Drama Festival
(Bulletin, May 12).
Your critic believes that Leaving
students (who study “Coriolanus” for
their examination) should not attempt to
present the play, as, “it is obviously
beyond their comprehension emotion-
ally.” This reveals a depressing ignorance
on the part of Mary Lord of the emo-
tional development of our intelligent
teenagers, and an obvious lack of under-
standing of the emotional content of the
play itself.
Shakespeare wrote the parts of
“Volumnia” and “Virgilia” for intelli-
gent teenaged boys. One can draw only
one inference from the remarks of your
critic, namely, that Mary Lord considers
that she knows a great deal more about
the art of the theatre than did Shakes-
peare, and that the Bard really had no
business writing and producing a play
that was “obviously beyond the emotional
comprehension” of his leading lady!
I should imagine that your newspaper
would not employ a journalist to write
an article on a football match in Perth,
unless he possessed a reasonably good
knowledge of football. Why are we in-
flicted with an alleged drama critic who
knows so little about the theatre? No
wonder Perth theatre is in the doldrums.
SEDDON VINCENT
Perth.
Sir,
I would like to draw attention to
comment made by your correspondent,
Mary Lord on the recent Drama Festival
sponsored by the Therry Society for the
Catholic Schools in Perth (Bulletin,
May 12).
The play singled out by your corres-
pondent was not the winning play, but it
was the only Shakespearean entry. This
play “Coriolanus” is the most strongly re-
commended text for this year’s Leaving
English Certificate. By its presentation,
which, considering the age group, was
creditable, marked by fine diction and
deep sincerity, it has done a service to
those students, who seeing the scenes,
have been able to get a better conception
of the text with its historical background,
character studies and all that goes with
a Shakespeare play: it must be granted
there is great mental enrichment to be
derived from the study and presentation
of even a few scenes.
The remark that the play was beyond
the players’ comprehension emotionally is
open to question, for children are capable
of feeling emotional situations very
deeply, even in drama. If we wait for
this comprehension to develop, the players
will no longer be of school age and this
brings us to the fact that the boy-actors
of Shakespeare’s time were young, the
female roles being always filled by boys.
It seems to me that in recent times
there has been a tendency to weave a
great deal more into his plays than ever
Shakespeare intended: the psychological
research knows no bounds.
Somewhere, someone of repute has
said that “it is better to do a good play
badly than do a bad play well.” The in-
ference being, I suppose, that experience
is a great teacher.
ANITA LE TESSIER
(Principal, School of Speech and Drama)
Claremont (WA ).
THE BATESON STORY
Sir,
I congratulate you on Robert Doning-
ton’s excellent study of that great Aus-
tralian, Sir Albert Bateson (Bulletin,
May 12). One point which might have
been mentioned is Bateson’s outstanding
record in making speeches at school
speech days. His 51-minute performance
at Melbourne Grammar and 46 minutes
at the Presbyterian Ladies’ College are
still remembered.
ROSS CAMPBELL
Lane Cove (NSW).
Sir,
Thank you for your very moving and
true pen-picture of Sir Albert Bateson,
the “Chief” as we like to call him. Now
that his talents are to be turned to the
Australian National University, one can
only hope that he will encourage further
discussions on the system which con-
tinues to permit such great men to reach
positions of influence. There is obvious
scope for a whole course of study to
prove the Bateson hypothesis that there
is no ridiculous contradiction in Sections
17 and 25 of the Commonwealth Public
Service Act.
PUBLC SERVANT
Braddon (ACT).
(Name withheld in view of Crimes Act.
—Ed.)
POSSUMS IN THE ROOF
Sir,
Homer’s overworked memory certainly
nodded when (“Possums in the Roof”
Bulletin, May 12) he placed Mr Cal-
well in the Curtin Ministry some months
before he joined it and I thank Professor
Crisp for calling my attention to the lapse
and enabling me to put the record
straight.
Otherwise, I am afraid that even if what
I wrote makes Professor Crisp “rub his
eyes” I find nothing to withdraw. If Mr
Calwell was not in the Ministry at the
time the militia question came up for
consideration, his co-delegate to the ALP
Conference and supporter Senator
Cameron was, so that my argument holds
good. Dr Encel deals with the whole inci-
dent imperfectly and without bringing out
its full implications and it is sophistry to
say, as Professor Crisp suggests, that Mr
Curtin had any objective in going to the
ALP Conference other than to force the
hands of some of his own Cabinet mem-
bers when the inevitable question of
extending the range over which militia
might be used should come up for cabinet
discussion. He was no Churchill when it
came to taking decisions.
With the incident connected with the
appointment of under-secretaries in 1952
I was intimately concerned behind the
scenes and, at Mr Speaker Cameron’s re-
quest, prepared a paper for him on
recent British rulings on what constituted
an office of profit under the Crown. Dr
Encel misinterprets “Speaker Cameron’s
own words” which he quotes. He “went
so far” as to provide rooms for them as
assistants to ministers; but when they
were styled “under-secretaries” in inscrip-
tions placed on their doors he came to
think that he “had been in error in doing
so,” because it would be inferred that he
officially recognised the office of under-
secretary, which he did not at any time.
He certainly did not give recognition and
withdrew it. I have looked up his letters
to me and there is no doubt about the
consistency of his attitude all through
from the point at which the Govern-
ment’s intention to make the appointments
was only rumored.
M. H. ELLIS
ON WHICH
Sir,
As a regular reader ol The Bulletin,
I was dismayed by the implications of
your editorial of April 28. With refer-
ence to the Commonwealth Immigrants
Act, and your assertion that Australians,
Canadians and New Zealanders should
be shown preference by Britain Over the
members of the Commonwealth who are
colored, may I remind you that these
colored members of the Commonwealth
fought and died on all fronts during the
last war beside their white counterparts
in the Commonwealth. This fact of
being an ally of Britain during the war,
therefore, gives the white Common-
wealth members no right of preference


over the colored Commonwealth mem-
bers.
To press your argument even further,
it must be remembered that many who
are today naturalised Australians, fought
against Britain in the last war. Thus your
idea that comrades-in-arms should be
allowed into Britain is a reason, accord-
ing to your view's, why many Australians
should be excluded from Britain.
The deeper implication is that you
believe the true reason, but decently
covered-up of course, for the Common-
wealth Immigrants Act, is mainly color
discrimination by Britain, a kind of be-
lated White Britain policy. The aim of
the Act, consciously and subconsciously,
is to prevent migrants from entering
Britain without certainty of employment,
in order that the economy of the country
may have some respite from the crip-
pling effect of the open-arms-to-the-Com-
monwealth-policy w'hich has in the past
prevailed.
Some limitation of entry has been
practised by the rest of the Common-
wealth against Britain for years, for
exactly the same reasons, and no uproar
has been noticed in Britain! You are,
unfortunately, at a disadvantage in
understanding the equal status of your-
self and your colored Commonw'ealth
brothers in the eyes of the British, being
less used to living among Indians, Afri-
cans, Pakistanis and Jamaicans than
those who were born in the Mother
country. The name suggests an explana-
tion. Children always expect to be wel-
comed home, but often resent a pro-
tracted visit from an elderly parent.
Brother also, alas, often fails to under-
stand brother.
Despite this “family” explanation, the
Fascist type of thinking evident in your
article is both dangerous and unbecom-
ing in the editorial of a responsible
magazine.
T. C. PARRY
Ashfield (Sydney).
ANOTHER WORD FOR THE GOAT.
Sir,
Your article “A Word for the Goat”
(Bulletin, April 14) was very interest-
ing to read. At least one town in NSW
has honored the goat, and this town
should be well known to you, it is Cooma.
We have a Nanny-Goat-Hill in the middle
of the town with a very fine sculpture
of a nanny-goat. So, if you should come
for skiing this winter don’t forget to look
at our Goat.
If there are some other towns in NSW
which would like to show' their apprecia-
tion for this animal, please contact my
husband Alexander Krell, because he has
modelled the goat.
INGEBURG KRELL
Cooma (NSW).
AMID THE PLENTY
Sir,
I had never met a “lady-battler” until
Thelma Forshaw so described herself in
The Bulletin of May 12 though 1 had,
of course, known battling women of
whom others sometimes said that they
were also ladies. The “Hungry people of
India, Africa, China” etc., who so engage
Miss Forshaw’s sympathy, and one of
the things that understandably irritates
the “Amid the Plenty” May hews and
their friends is that apparently he has
to be practically starving before anyone
will get much interested in his plight.
They are inclined towards the old-fash-
ioned belief that prevention is better than
cure.
What I really object to in Miss For-
shaw’s second instalment on “Amid the
Plenty” is her reference to “the whining
Mayhews” which suggests that if she
read the book at all in its published
form she read it very carelessly and was
prejudiced from the start. Most of the
whining is done by her pompous, purse-
proud Babbit of a brother, and is heard
whenever anybody tries to get a quid
out of him.
One should cease writing letters to
editors before those gentlemen sternly
announce, “this correspondence must
now cease”, and this will certainly be
my last word on “Amid The Plenty” ad-
dressed to The Bulletin, whatever
more Miss Forshaw may have to say
about it. But I could not remain silent
when such absolutely untrue accusations
were made against the Mayhews, of
whom I continue to be quite fond.
GAVIN CASEY
Manning (WA).
(As Mr Casey says: “This correspond-
ence must now Cease”.—Ed.)
AUSTRALIA’S RELIGIOUS SECTS
Sir,
The one jarring note in Peter Kelly’s
excellent resume on Australia’s sects
(Bulletin, May 12) was his statement
on the Witnesses: “But the quality that
Witnesses have over every sect or re-
ligion is the courage to withstand per-
secution.”
This is just not true. The history of
the Church in every age attests the wil-
lingness of the faithful to suffer when
necessary. The pastors of the Lutheran
Confessional Church and the priests of
the Roman Catholic Church during the
Nazi regime give one modern illustra-
tion. There are many others.
Mr Kelly may have been correct if
he wrote of the Witnesses’ unique love
of courting persecution, which is not
courage but a form of masochism.
Referring to the Adventists I must
state that Dr Rumble is not alone in his
“hiding-their-light-behind-a-bushel” accu-
sation. As an Anglican priest I can cite
instance after instance of the anony-
mous book salesman or collector who
becomes known only to those who
search diligently in their literature for
the Adventist imprint, “The Signs Pub-
lishing Co.”
It would be simpler to get a criminal
on the run to reveal his identity than
an Adventist making his initial approach.
(Rev.) JOHN BASKIN
St. Nicholas’ Rectory,
Goulburn (NSW).
THE DLP CRIES WOLF
Sir,
Mr Mulvihill (Bulletin, May 19)
again sidesteps the real point at issue.
It is this: The ALP promised, if elected
to power in the Federal Parliament, to
implement policies which could only ass's:
communist advancement abroad and com-
munist subversion at home. These
include:
Granting diplomatic recognition to
Communist China. Reversing Australia’s
vote to one favoring Communist China’s
admission to United Nations; With-
drawal of Australian troops from Maiaya;
Hostility to the extension of trading and
political relations with Japan; Abolition
of the 1951 Clean Ballot legislation—the
only existing safeguard against communist
ballot rigging; The repeal of the penal
clauses of the Arbitration Act —thus
paving the way for wild-cat strike action
and removal of the political and indus-
trial sections of the Crimes Act under
which the Chifley Government gaoled
communists for sedition in 1949.
Had the ALP won the last Federal elec-
tions and thus the power to effect these
promises, communist policy and organisa-
tion would become dominant in the poli-
tical life of this country.
J. T. KANE
(General Secretary, DLP)
Sydney.
(This correspondence is now closed—Ed.)
A WORD FOR MISS CALDWELL
Sir,
Recently I attended for the second
time the Elizabethan Theatre Trust’s pro-
duction of “Saint Joan”; and as on the
first occasion I found myself torn between
admiration for the many excellences of
the performance, and indignation at the
reception it has been accorded by critics
here and in other States. Zoe Caldwell
offers an interpretation of the leading ro'e
which, I should have thought, would win
her the admiration and gratitude of even
the most blase critic. She is supported by
a company which works together
extremely well, and which is graced by
some of the best individual performances
we have seen here for a long time. In all
this is arresting theatre; yet it has evoked
a critical response which makes one
wonder not only about the competence,
but also about the motives of those whq
have, it seems to me, both misunderstood
and misrepresented it.
It must seem to many people who have
been impressed by the production that
Shaw’s message has notably failed to
reach those who should be most suscep-
tible to it. And perhaps Joan’s remark to
Courcelles might appropriately be addres-
sed to some of our drama critics: “Thou
art a rare noodle, Master. Do what was
done last time is thy rule, eh?”
LEONIE KRAMER
University of New South Wales L
Sydney.


Avoid profit-draining delays and header hold-ups with...
LYSAGH1
AMERICAN TYPE
FLAT FLOOR SYSTEM
*
Patent Pending No. 55007/59
..................r .
mmrnm
583
■m
m
m
m
:•■■•••
'ww
3£w£
I
■
■
m
m
p M
*
m
x-r->£
mm
m
A battery of Lysaght 3,100 bushel Silos installed at Boggabri, N.S.W.,for the bulk storage of grain during the season and the storage of supplementary
feed during the remainder of the year.
By storing your grain in Lysaght American-type
flat floor All Purpose Silos immediately after
harvesting, you avoid unexpected delays and
week-end hold-ups. You can keep your harvesting
crews moving while the weather is favourable and
truck at your leisure when the main crush is over.
Use your Lysaght Silos, too, to keep graded and
premium wheat segregated for top market prices.
• Full-size, “walk-in” door (silos from 1,200 bushels
upwards) enable silos to be emptied and cleaned in double-
quick time.
• Fully rodent-proof construction.
• Easier, faster, cheaper erection.
• Vertically rigidised walls and 6-ply horizontal ribs for
added strength.
• Robust positive-action bagging outlet, complete with quick
release bag-holder and steel hood.
• Auger chute, in bottom bulkhead behind the door.
• Centre and side filling holes, complete with hinged lids
and positive fastenings.
OPTIONAL EXTRAS
• Easy-to-install heavy gauge steel floor.
Steel earth ring.
PRICES
(F.O.R. Newcastle)
Steel
* The 500-bushel Silo is not
equipped with a door. Price
includes steel door.
AUGERS
Highly efficient vertical Grain
Augers designed to centre
fill all Lysaght Silos from 1,200
bushels to 3,700 bushels are
available. Prices: £97, £lO9,
£ll6. (F.O.R. Newcastle.)
g>^.
M
: :
i!
BSt
iriii
n
□
} i
m
■ v
'smst
Post coupon now for complete details to: £|
John Lysaght (Australia; Limited
(C'ty)
Please send me full details of the complete range of Lysaght Silos and vertical
Grain Augers.
NAME
NAME OF PROPERTY
ROUTE OR RMB NO
_ STATE
DISTRICT
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
Offices in Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Fremantle
Manufactured by: John Lysaght (Australia) Limited, Special Products
Division, Newcastle Works, Newcastle, N.S.W.
S6CC


The Wild
and
THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
THE COMMON MARKET
AUSTRALIA LOSES THE FIRST ROUND
Despite Mr McEwen’s angry protests
and the Prime Minister’s shock
tactics in London it is now clear that
Australia has been beaten in the first
major round of the Common Market
t a ik s .
It is also pretty clear that the United
Kingdom is prepared to go a long way
to ensure competitive markets for her
manufactured goods in the European
Economic Community—if need be at the
inevitable expense of her Commonwealth
trading partners. One must admit that,
despite the strained optimism evidenced
recently in some British and Australian
circles, the United Kingdom’s readiness
to acquiesce in abolishing the preferences
system as a condition of her entry into
the European Economic Community was
never really in doubt.
The United Kingdom lives by export-
ing manufactured goods and capital
equipment, and its production costs and
prices are geared to a world market.
Britain cannot afford to lose her
traditional export market in Europe. We
must also remember that to British manu-
facturers West European markets are as
traditional as the UK market for Aus-
tralian primary producers.
It is therefore unrealistic to hope that
the interests of Britain’s Commonwealth
partners —who are basically primary
producers will sway the balance on
purely economic considerations.
jjerhaps it may be still possible to
dissuade the United Kingdom from
joining the European Economic Com-
munity on political grounds, putting for-
ward the view that if Britain becomes too
deeply involved in the West European
economic union the entire concept of the
British Commonwealth may go by the
board. It seems that Mr Menzies is now
exploring the possible virtues of this line
°f action, which can always rally some
emotional support. But it must be con-
sidered whether this policy will pay in
the long run.
.
United States has shown that it
A has become fully aware of the
tremendous economic and political
implications of the European Common
Market. The fact that it has arrived
at this appraisal somewhat belatedly
gives President Kennedy all the more
incentive to make up for the time wasted
and vigorous , y assert America’s leading
position in the Western Alliance.
The United States is taking energetic
st t 0 eod its virtual econom t c isol * tion
£rom E At , President
v . f. ,
*frmedy is concentrating on long-term
™ OV£S ° enBUre access to the West
uropean mar e s or merican primary
secondary producers. Americas
P °J. lCa an . m . I ltar y ir *fl uence ls
SU ICICr ? ° n , ar ~ reac hmg economic
concessions, sue as are beyond our
™ eans ' * n th f e circumB t a nces it may
e im P ruC£ent £ ° r us t 0 press London too
aar ecause economically impoverished
Britain will be of little use to the Com-
monwealth. But an economically power-
ful Europe can play a leading role in the
European Economic Community.
This is one of the reasons why
considerable opposition to the UK has
now developed within certain EEC
circles, notably in France. And in West
Germany fears that Britain’s entry into
the EEC will be used as a check against
Bonn’s economic and political influence
have been assiduously, if quietly, fanned
by the “Carolingians”, who dream of a
powerful Western Europe founded on a
Franco-German alliance and eventually
stretching from the Atlantic to the
Urals. In such a Europe there would be
no place for either the UK or the US.
The annual talks between Prime
Minister Macmillan and President de
Gaulle in Paris were a stark illustration
the hardening Franco - German
attitude,
_ ,
T ll5 ™ 181 pa f ° £ * e latest JySreen.ent
between the UK and EEC negoti-
ators is that, although at the moment it
only with tariffs on manufactured
goods and wheat marketing arrange-
ments, it is a foretaste of the things to
come .
j t seems that the best we can expect
extens j on G f preferential tariffs for
Australian goods to 1970 - mainly
thanks to Mr McEwen’s and Dr Wester-
man’s splendid efforts during the earlier
negotiations in Washington and the
EEC capitals.
All this makes it all the more urgent
to look around for new markets and
s tart adapting ourselves for the radical
export trade changes which now appear
inevitable. Negotiating in Europe and
London is not enough,
EUGENE BAJKOWSKI
INDEX
Australia Loses the First Round 34
Middle East 35
Japan’s Steel Agreement .... 35
The Australian Shipping Scene 36
Advertising 39
News Pointers 40
Oil 40
Aviation 41
Company Reviews and Notes
Mark Foy’s Ltd 42
Queensland Can Co. Ltd .... 42
Younghusband Ltd 44
Anthony Hordern & Sons Ltd 45
Company Notes 46
Companies Act Changed .... 48
Capital Issues, Metal Prices 48
Wild Cat Brevities 49
Sharemarket Summary and
Statistics 50, 51
Speculator’s Diary 52
One to Buy 52
Man on the Land
Dairy Produce, Wool, Milk,
Rubber 53, 54


MIDDLE EAST
IN THE WAKE OF THE "CHANDPARA"
A fter four weeks of bazaar bashing in
the Arab world as a member of the
“Chandpara” sea-borne trade mission,
followed by four weeks retracing the
route of the Australian trade mission to
the Red Sea area and the Levant earlier
this year, I have returned to Australia
with the firm conviction that there is
good business awaiting our exporters if
we can get regular shipping services.
I believe that the “Chandpara” mission
was well worthwhile if only for two basic
reasons, from which all else must flow.
It showed officials and merchants of the
oil and money-rich lands of the Arabian
Gulf that Australia now produces a wide
range of manufactured goods in addition
to the primary products for which we
are already well-known, and that these
are of a quality and variety comparable
with those they obtain from traditional
European sources. It also showed a repre-
sentative cross-section of our business-
men that the Arab world is a rich and
reasonably accessible market where
normal business methods apply.
The official report on the “Chandpara”
mission will be published by the appro-
priate authorities in due course and I
shall therefore not go into more detail at
this time. Of the other mission I can
only repeat various comments made to
me in some of the places it had visited.
These were to the effect that it had
suffered in comparison with the Italians
who followed in its footsteps. They were
said to have been fewer and younger,
with a number of them speaking Arabic
and with time enough to get into the
bazaars to sell. Not that our mission was
not welcomed and appreciated, but the
impact was said to be less than it might
have been.
I left the “Chandpara” in Basra and
then spent several days in Baghdad.
Prospects here for Australian exporters
of consumer goods are better than they
used to be owing to current political dif-
ferences between Iraq and Great Britain
over Kuwait. Many Iraki merchants who
have previously imported only from
Europe are looking for alternative
sources of supply and we, being on the
right side of the Suez Canal and politic-
ally uninvolved, are in a good position
to break in.
Moving on to Teheran, the commer-
cial centre for Iran, it was soon apparent
that the new five-year austerity pro-
gramme will virtually prohibit any busi-
ness for us in consumer goods, though
there are some prospects in building mat-
erials and mechanical equipment, with
severe restrictions even on these.
In Beirut, however, we are faced with
an intensely competitive market, readily
accessible from Europe and North
America, and until we have regular direct
shipping from Australia business will be
spasmodic and risky. The port is declin-
ing as an entrepot, but Beirut itself is
becoming a major investment centre for
Arab money from the oil sheikhdoms and
is rapidly increasing in importance as a
market for goods for local consumption.
I visited there the Australian Commer-
cial Centre and admired the display . . .
yes, ... of Hong Kong plastics and
American TV sets.
Aden is the other supply point for the
Yemen but when the port of Hodeidah,
now being built by the Russians, becomes
operative this entrepot trade may de-
crease.
HPhe markets I have mentioned are
mostly off the beaten track and are
rarely visited for any length of time by
our businessmen. This is a pity as they
can produce a sizable volume of trade if
tackled together as one commercial entity
instead of being visited spasmodically
and piecemeal by exporters on their way
through to somewhere else. They have
a common market pattern based on com-
mon habits of life, religion and language
(except in the case of Iran), and the area
is compact enough geographically to be
covered in an economical manner ef-
fectively.
However, at the present time we are
up against two fundamental shipping
problems which must be solved before
individual companies can write much
business in the area. The freight rates
from Australia to the Arabian Gulf are
unreasonably high when compared to
those of our competitors. For instance,
the nett sterling rate per long ton for
wheat flour from Europe is 119 s. 3d.,
from the USA 140 s.—and from Australia
2205., and this freight differential virtu-
ally excludes many of our products from
this half of the trading area.
In the other half there is no regular
direct shipping from Australia to any-
where except Aden, and the demand for
our products in the Red Sea and the
Levant will remain unsatisfied until there
is. That such a demand exists was
brought home to me continually during
my tour. The business is there.
I can only hope that the experiences
of these two Trade Missions from Aus-
tralia this year to the off-beat markets
in the Arab World will result in a radical
improvement in the shipping and freight
position, or the good work they have
done will be largely wasted at a time
when we have an urgent need to develop
such markets.
STEEL
JAPAN'S AGREEMENT WITH
WESTERN EUROPE
Following a long final meeting held
at Tokyo’s plush Ginza Hotel, rep-
resentatives of the Japanese steel industry
reached an agreement “on further co-
operation in the European market” with
the visiting West European steel mission,
representing the UK, West Germany,
France, Italy and Sweden.
Reports in Japanese papers indicate that
West European delegates had requested
an agreement on prices and marketing,
pointing out that large quantities of
Japanese steel are exported to Europe at
low prices. It is understood that this
request was rejected by the Japanese steel
exporters, but some other concessions
were made. A Japanese mission will
shortly go to Europe for further talks.
Japanese sources claim that a prices and
marketing agreement is “not feasible at
this time as the Japanese special steel
industry is in the stage of development”.
Japanese delegates to the steel talks in
Tokyo included Mr K. Ishii, president
of the Daido Steel Co., powerful special
rolled steel manufacturer in Nagoya.
The West European delegation was
headed by Mr R. Morizop, president of
the French federation of special steel
producers, and Mr G. Keoesch, chair-
man of the West German special steel
manufacturers’ association.
Japanese interest in West European
export markets for special steels seems
to be particularly keen in view of the
recent efforts by the Japanese Govern-
ment to restrict expansion of steel out-
put capacity for home consumption.
The Japanese steel industry has grown
more rapidly than was envisaged under
the ten-year national income doubling
plan, and there is now a serious danger
of excess capacity developing. Japanese
economic authorities are trying to restrict
further capital investment in the steel
industry in 1962-63, but apparently give
tacit encouragement to an increase in
Japanese steel exports, as under-capacity
output may raise unit costs of produc-
tion and deprive Japanese steel producers
of their advantage of lower costs.
Recently there has been a marked
interest in Japan in closer economic
relations with the European Common
Market. The foreign affairs research
committee of the ruling Liberal-Demo-
cratic Party is now urging that a Japan-
ese Ambassador be accredited to the
European Economic Community. The
Japanese Government “has decided to
conclude taxation agreements with EEC
nations at the earliest possible date”.
The Japanese Finance Ministry now hopes
to initial a taxation agreement with
France this month.


THE AUSTRALIAN SHIPPING SCENE
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE FIGHTS BACK
BY J. C. HORSFALL
Shipping has never been a straight mat-
ter of economics in Australia. Not
that it is unique in that among Aus-
tralian industries. But shipping, more than
any other industry, has had to take the
strain of political and social democratic
pressures in a society whose island
economy has always been highly depen-
dent on international sea-borne trade,
whose main centres of population are
separated by great distances around
12,210 miles of coastline and whose in-
digenous supplies of raw materials and
bulk commodities often find coastal
trade the most convenient means of car-
riage.
Of course, in the end all these sorts of
pressures crystallise out in the economics
of an industry, first in its cost structure,
then in its turnover and profitability and
ultimately in the scale of its operations
and its propensity for survival. If the
pressures are pushed hard enough on an
industry it will be forced out of busi-
ness, as happened with Australian ship-
ping in virtually all overseas trade a long
time ago and more recently in the inter-
state passenger business, leaving the
coastal cargo trade the industry’s sole
province for all practical purposes.
Something drastic had to happen if
the cause of private enterprise was to
survive in Australian shipping. Plagued
by rising costs and increasing competition
in the general cargo trade, the coastal
shipping companies have been ill-
equipped to take advantage of the increas-
ing tonnages offering for the bulk car-
riage of raw materials and commodities.
As a result most of them have been
operating their fleets virtually on suffer-
ance. Long since weary of the whole
gamut of pressures battening down the
profitability of their operations, year after
year they have been putting a brave face
on their shipping activities by drawing
into the accounts income from invest-
ments made from profits when the in-
dustry was in its heyday and also from
their considerable interests in stevedoring,
ship repair and other auxiliary activities.
JT has been all the more galling to the
companies in that since it was formed
in 1956, the Australian National Line,
under the vigorous direction of Captain
John Protheroe Williams, has gone from
strength to strength through its tight grip
on the bulk cargo business, the effective
patronage of the Government and even
a brave incursion into the interstate pas-
senger business, which the private com-
panies gave up as uneconomic a long
time ago. The success of this Govern-
ment-sponsored leviathan in their midst
and, what is more, their high depend-
ence on it for agency business prompted
many hard thoughts on what could fol-
low the advent of a Labor Government
in Canberra.
However, the country should be ready
for a thrust in either or both directions.
For leaving aside for the moment the
struggle for the survival of private en-
terprise in Australian coastal shipping,
we have the position where the carriage
of practically all the country’s import
and export trade is in the hands of over-
seas shipping companies, whose confer-
ences push their monopoly positions
along the various routes pretty near to
the breaking point of tolerance. For all
the nice cost calculations made to de-
termine variation in freight rates of
overseas shipping companies there is little
doubt that they squeeze the last ounce
out of the trade.
Come international comparisons of
freight rates can be cited to illustrate
the point. For instance whereas the freight
per ton of steel is only 120 s. between
Europe and Singapore, it is 170 s. between
Sydney and Singapore, only half the dis-
tance. Between Sydney and Hong Kong
freight on a ton of steel costs 178 s. a
ton, from England to Hong Kong only
1445., from England to Indonesia 1635.
a ton, from Sydney to Indonesia 1755.
a ton. These disparities are big enough
to make all Australian importers and ex-
porters weep. Yet we have it from Cap-
tain Williams himself that the efforts of
the Australian National Line to get into
the overseas freight business have been
singularly unsuccessful. The line is simply
not competitive against overseas ships?
Yet when this is said, there is no deny-
ing the fact that since its formation in
1956, the Australian National Line (the
operating body of the Australian Coastal
Shipping Commission which replaced the
previous Australian Shipping Board) has
achieved results which are the envy of
the private coastal shipping companies, in-
deed results achieved to some extent at
their expense and obliging them to re-
double their efforts for survival.
A measure of the success of the Aus-
tralian National Line is seen in the in-
crease from 4.8 million (1957-58) to 6.0
million (1960-61) tons of interstate cargo
it shipped in its first four full years of
operations. In fact the increase in its ton-
nage between those two years exceeded
by 100,000 tons the total rise of 1,082,000
tons in the overall interstate cargo ton-
nage in Australia between those years.
The corollary of this is that not only
did the tonnage shipped by private en-
terprise decline but also its share of the
total trade dropped from 61.8 p.c. to
56.3 p.c. against the ANL’s increase from
38.2 p.c. to 43.7 p.c.
The Australian National Line’s great
advantage in obtaining cargoes derives
largely from its concentration on the
carrying of bulk cargoes it has 17
specially designed bulk carriers and 22
predominantly bulk cargo carrying ves-
sels in all coupled with the introduc-
tion of its Searoad Service to Tasmania
in April last year. Of its net increase of
761,935 tons carried coastwise last year,
515,596 was of iron ore, 155,684 of coal
and coke and 168,441 in the Searoad Ser-
vice. Last year about four-fifths of its car-
goes were of bulk ironstone, limestone and
dolomite and fuels, the other fifth being
steel, timber, wheat, motor vehicles and
general cargo.
Apart from the B.H.P.’s own vessels,
it has a virtual monopoly on the carry-
ing of ores from South Australia to the
steel-making plants in NSW. Some of its
ships also carry coal to Victorian, SA and
WA ports. It also has two 14,000 ton
vessels permanently employed bringing
iron from Yampi Sound to Port Kembla,
some also taking return cargoes of coal.
Pride of the fleet is of course the MV
Princess Of Tasmania, which has been
carrying passengers and vehicles across
Bass Strait since October 1959.
TSTith a fleet of 44 ships with 267,112
” dw tonnage —about half the tonnage
operating in the Australian coastal trade
—the Australian National Line last year
managed to pay its usual 6 p.c. dividend
to the Government from its profits which
rose from £1,314,376 to £1,433,739,
after paying £969,564 (£962,918) in
taxation and setting aside £1,456,497
(£1,329,416) depreciation on shipping
assets.
It must be remembered of course that
the Australian National Line’s original
assets (shipping and otherwise) were
handled to it on a plate so to speak
by the former Australian Shipping Board.
They were built up largely at the expense
of the taxpayer, not acquired in the man-
ner of private enterprise through loans or
flotations of capital requiring to be ser-
viced, nor, it seems, greatly augmented
by the time-honored method of plough-
ing back profits. Any private enterprise
concern starting off in the coastal ship-
ping business in 1956 with assets worth
more than £2O million without strings
attached would doubtless have been able
to have at least matched these results, and
its accountants, if they were realistic,
would have had to think twice about cal-
ling the 6 p.c. return to the Government
by the name ‘“dividend” and not “inte-
rest.” Economists certainly might see in
the whole operations of the Australian


INVESTMENT OPPORTUNITY
sms
mm
iiiiaiiisllll!!!!
9 s|
sESSt
iiw«iiiiigig!»ggj;
FOYS, MELBOURNE
iifUil
ii!!?
■■■>!
iiißillll
MYER'S, BENDIGO
grtHiWßßiiß
BOWRJNGS, MtIOURA
li
Wi
mm
hiwmbwib
COX FOYS, ADELAIDE
m
Wm
asm
Hu
11!>
SSi
ilili
III!
HI
llfll ftlfi
hr
mj
m*
10
FOYS (W.A,)
STORES
RETAIL
WIDE
CHAIN
OF
AUSTRALIA
12 TRADING COMPANIES
113 STORES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
DEPOSIT INVESTMENT
PLAN
The Company will accept deposits which it can profitably
employ and will pay the following rates of interest per annum.
DshmSßß
s^:::^;;.*ii!!ii{|^.,,„:z!p
: . ?j
•.£■ *.
GEORGES OF ST.
m
8&§Is
wm
SSg|||g|B|||iS:i;
mil
shows* syD»nrr
h
m
m
COX BROS,, tAUHCESTOM
•u-|RBii|i!iß!
BRIGHTS, GfEIONG
: ;i;:!!;!!!::ilSSiiii||ii!j!ili!!uii!!!!j!i:life?
COXiCONOMJC, PERTH
APPLICATIONS-:--may l>y .•lily on Tarmv iit.i. iu«; in Urn ptinUnl fi'pirs ■)> ihfl: fiiospnrt.us, ivlncji.inay,fce: obtained -fram
# The Secretary, Cox Brothers (Australia) limited, l!i Hinders lane, Melb.
# the Manager of any store in the Cox Bros protip.
# Any Mftmher oi a Stock Exchange;
BROKERS TO THE ISSUE
lAN POTTER & CO. :
MUBOURNE —SYDNEY—BRISBANE
ADELAIDE——CANBERRA WM
etr«rw


National Line a monstrous disguised sub-
sidy which puts the private shipping com-
panies at a unique disadvantage.
Though the comparison may therefore
not be a straight one, compare last year’s
out-turn by the Australian National
Line with the net profits of the main
coastal shipping companies: Adelaide
Steamship, down from £308,000 to £262,-
000; Mcllwraith McEacharn up from
£116,000 to £122,000; Howard Smith
down from £227,000 to £184,000; Hud-
dart Parker Industries steady at £242,-
504 (year to December 1959) and £242,-
067 (year to June 1961).
Huddart Parker changed its account-
ing year in 1960, for which it issued ac-
counts for the 6 months to June 3, 1960,
then for a full year to June 1961 before
being acquired by Bitumen and Oil Re-
fineries in September 1961. Profit for the
six months to June 1960 was £115,000
after deducting a full year’s deprecia-
tion.
Even on these figures it is clear that
the private enterprise companies gener-
ally fared poorly last year (no new ex-
perience for them) but in the cases of
Adelaide Steamship, Howard Smith and
Huddart Parker the figures mask an even
poorer performance from shipping in that
both these companies draw a considerable
part of their income from investments
and other activities outside shipping. Act-
ually Howard Smith made a loss of
£155,000 on its shipping last year, com-
pensating for these losses with income
from investments which are given a book
value of £3.75m. (but are probably worth
twice as much) and profits from its
majority interests in Australian Sugar
and Invincible Colliery.
As a matter of fact were it not for their
big stake in tugs, a business which is as
yet out of reach of the Australian
National Line, both Adelaide Steam and
Howard Smith would probably have
suffered even more heavily profit-wise last
year. This would apply also to Huddart
Parker. Adelaide Steam is the biggest tug
owner in Australian waters.
J|%eir tug, stevedoring, ship repair and
non-shipping interests aside, most
private enterprise shipping companies in
the coastal trade must have felt in recent
years little more than crumb pickers from
the bountiful tables of Captain John
Williams, boss of the Australian National
Line from its beginning. Most of them
had seen their once proud fleet of inter-
state passenger vessels founder on the
rocks of high costs and many of their old
freighters sold for scrap to overseas buyers
(12 coastal ships totalling 46,816 tons
were sold overseas last year, 11 in 1960
and 13 the year before).
True, private enterprise has continued
to have a sizable stake in the generale
cargo trades, and in sugar, timber, and
coal, but as with passenger vessels, costs
were the bugbear and there have been
many thoughts of getting out of shipping
and concentrating on shore activities, or
merely sitting back and enjoying life as
investment trusts.
There can be little doubt that Captain
Williams would have been glad to see
them all go, envisaging a situation where
the National Line would be alone in the
field. And he could count on this too —
there are not many Australians likely
to get very worked up about the euthan-
asia of the private shipping companies.
But there are also some people who saw
in the possible extinction of private enter-
prise in the coastal trade questions of
principle and also a challenge. It has
been clear for a long time that to stay
in the race at all the companies must keep
pace with the revolution in methods of
carrying by sea, introduce modern con-
tainer ships, expand the seatainer concept
of carrying goods and extend door to
door services by sea.
There would have to be a new all-round
drive for efficiency, the elimination of
unpayable trades, facilities for shippers
would have to be made more efficient and
reliable, modern cargo terminals would
have to be built, new concepts of sales
promotion and management adopted.
A ll five major companies have accepted
the challenge. Even Huddart
Parker, which sold out to BORAL last
year, was much to the fore in introducing
door to door containers and before the
takeover had been conferring with
Mcllwraith McEacharn on each company
placing an order for either a container or
seatainer vessel. Indeed the arrangement
whereby Mcllwraith would acquire
Huddart Parker’s shipping assets and so
effectively keep them operating was an
integral part of the BORAL takeover.
Mcllwraith has in fact continued to
employ all Huddart’s tugs and six freight-
ers in their previous trades, giving it now
the biggest coastal fleet of the surviving
coastal shipping companies. One of the
other companies, Melbourne Steamship,
was also taken over (by Howard Smith),
but its sole shipping interests were in
tugs, 6.72 p.c. of Bulkships Ltd and
engineering shops at Sydney, Melbourne
and Fremantle.
Again, Howard Smith has kept Mel-
bourne Steamship intact as an operation
within its group since the takeover.
Backed by the more powerful financial
resources of Howard Smith, Melbourne
Steamship’s future is better assured than
before, thus both last year’s two big take-
overs of shipping companies look to have
strengthened the position of private enter-
prise in the coastal trades.
Howard Smith’s main motive in bidding
for Melbourne Steamship was to stop
Adelaide Steamship, which had made the
first offer, from getting it. No love is lost
between these two old rivals. If Adelaide
had won, it would not only have secured
tugs in Melbourne, but Adelaide’s present
49.07 p.c. holding in Bulkships would
have been increased to a majority one of
55.79 p.c. (Mcllwraith McEacharn now
has the other 44.21 p.c.) This takeover
still leaves Howard Smith with a smaller
freighter fleet than Adelaide Steam. For
all its “establishment” approach, Adelaide
Steam led the way in modernisation
among the private shipping companies,
having two modern bulk sugar carriers
built in 1959 and 1960. Now the lead
appears to have passed to Mcllwraith
which, as well as its big interest in Bulk-
ships, new tonnage, is currently building
a 16-knot motor seatainer vessel for the
West Australian trade.
HThrough their own building pro-
grams and in their partnership in
Bulkships Ltd, the three dominant private
shipping companies are poised to make a
big assault on the present preserves of the
Australian National Line in the bulk ore
carrying trade. The first of two new
16,500 ton bulk ore carriers to be built
by Bulkships is the newly completed
“Wollongong”, which will soon be fully
employed in carriage of iron ore and coal
for BHP, and the “Mittagong”, of the
same dimensions, currently under con-
struction for Bulkships by BHP at
Why all a.
With the new standard gauge railway
lines and greater efficiency in air-cargo
transport, the future of coastal shipping
lies squarely in the lap of the bulk cargo
trades, notably iron-ore and coal, bauxite,
alumina dolomite and limestone. It is true
that the growing use of fuel oil in industry
continues to make inroads into interstate
coastal coal traffic, but big industrial
developments, especially the new steel and
aluminium projects, ensure a fairly rapid
increase in bulk trade in other directions.
Even so it seems that, overall, present
available tonnage and new tonnage build-
ing will together be adequate to cope
with the cargoes offering for some time
yet. For its part, the Australian National
Line seems to have been showing rather
more interest of late in glamor passenger
and car-carrying ships than in bulk
carriers.
The private coastal shipping companies
are not going to find it easy, especially in
present circumstances of recessed
economic activity, to restore their for-
tunes. But by grasping the nettle of
modernisation, strengthening the indus-
try’s structure by takeovers and now
being well on the way to getting the re-
quired specialised tonnage and facilities
to bid competitively for bulk as well as
general cargoes, private enterprise looks
to have a much more promising future
in the costal shipping business than it did
even a year ago.


CORPORATION LIMITED i
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on Bth March. 1950.
(ASSETS EXCEED £11,000,000.)
iliifl
'/•y-y.
■m.
PER ANNUM
4YEARS
INTEREST
PERIOD
9% P.A 4 years
P.A. ... 3 years
8% P.A 2 years
7P.A. . . 12 months
6% P.A. ... 6 months
FUNDS MAY BE WITHDRAWN IN A PERSONAL EMERGENCY
APPLICATIONS MUST BE MADE ON THE FORM ENCLOSED
IN THE PROSPECTUS, WHICH IS NOW AVAILABLE FROM:
All Branches of the BANK OF N.S.W.
The Company's Offices,
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Fir., Empire House, Corner Wharf and Queen Sts.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street.
NEWCASTLE WEST: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter St.
WAGGA: 147 Bayliss Street.
Any Member of the Stock Exchange
BROKERS:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
BANKERS FOR THE ISSUE AND THE COMPANY: THE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
CXM34/AB
ADVERTISING
TOO MUCH "DREAM DUST"
Wide, toothy grins. They shine
at you from hoardings and news-
papers and television screens. Practically
every advertisement, for practically any
product, is dominated by grinning faces.
Advertising people have created a
strange world; a world inhabited only
by beautiful women and immaculate
men and the cutest of cute children, and
they all grin all the time. The characters
depicted in advertising displays are in-
variably prosperous and clean-limbed
and healthy. And they are all so sure of
the reason for their well-being. As
they’re quick to tell you, it’s because
they use a certain soap or someone’s
corn plaster or take a particular brand
of pill. Do people look or act or talk
as they do in advertisements?
Any housewife who has ever cleaned
a sink or done a heavy wash or any of'
the other necessary but ignoble chores,
knows that she cannot keep carefully
coiffured and perfectly manicured and
unfailingly cheerful. And she knows that
no product, however efficient, can
magically transform her into the elegant
lady who grins at her from the advertise-
ments. And any teenage boy knows that
it takes more than an acne ointment to
make him irresistible, and any girl
realises she cannot win a husband merely
by using Fizzo, the new fabulous under-
arm deodorant.
Advertisers have strayed so far into a
dream world of their own making that
any resemblance to the real world is
largely coincidental.
Perhaps we can best appreciate the
difference between the two worlds by
comparing an everyday scene . . . say
the domestic breakfast table.
First, an Australian scene. The wife
is wrapped in a housegown freely
appliqued with egg stains. She has rollers
in her hair, slippers on her feet, and sleep
in her eyes. The glimpse one has of her
husband over his newspaper shows he is
shaggy, unshaven, unkempt, and
ungracious. The little boy is belting his
sister with a spoon. Mother slaps a plate
of bacon and eggs on the table and
everyone snarls at it. Above their heads
a text says, “God Bless Our Home”.
Now take the corresponding scene in
Advertising Land. The wife is crisp and
efficient. No trace of morning drowsi-
ness mars her radiance. Her hair is
waved, her attire is impeccable, her face
shines like her husband’s shoes. And
look at him. He is washed, polished,
barbered, and bubbling with benevolent
beatitude. The two children sit starchly
to table, fresh as dew-drenched roses.
With eager eyes and abundant grins, they
watch mother bring a tray to the table.
Above their heads, in the place of the
homely homily, is a balloon with the
words: “Yum yum! Tasty Windies for
Breakfast! Science Proves That Windies
Contain the Goodness of 15 Eggs. Buy
the Giant King Size.”
One reason, perhaps, why advertising
has strayed so far from reality could be
the influence of scientific analyses such
as motivation research. Researchers and
psychologists sav: “People want to
identify themselves with beauty and with
clean family life.” Maybe so, but people
have difficulty in identifying themselves
with palpable phonies.
Of course, the mirror should not be
held too close to nature advertising
need not depict mother as she really
looks in the mornings and dad with his
teeth out and the kids sullen and grubby
but the mirror should not be so
clouded with dream dust that people
cannot see themselves at all.
In the long run, the consumer ceases
to be impressed by characters so far
removed from his sphere and his aspira-
tions, and he is inclined to discount or
disbelieve the claims made for the
publicised products.
ROGER WELCH


NEWS POINTERS
AUSTRALIA
• Exports of greasy wool for the ten months to April, 1962, totalled
1140 million bales, valued at £284,086,000 (up £39,386,000).
• Qantas Airways expect to fly one million Australian orchids for
sale overseas this year. The season’s first consignment of 1200 cymbidium
blooms from Sydney reached London and Scottish markets after a flight
of 27 hours and was put on sale immediately.
• The Australian Government considers British proposals for marketing
of Australian wheat in the UK (if Britain joins the Common Market)
inadequate. The UK proposals reject the recent Westerman plan that
Australia should be granted limited preferences in the overall European
sales quota, up to the value of current wheat exports. Both Mr McEwen,
the Acting Prime Minister and the Minister for Trade, and Mr Menzies,
who is in London, have sharply criticised the UK wheat marketing plan
and the UK-EEC agreement on manufactured goods.
• Five representatives of leading Japanese steel producers, headed by
Mr M. Kagawa, research chief of Fuji Iron and Steel Co., will fly from
Tokyo on June 11 to spend 45 days in Australia. The Japanese steel
mission will discuss joint development of Australian iron ore resources.
• The Deputy Leader of the Federal Opposition, Mr E. G. Whitlam,
said that Australia has been “left without a future” because of the
Government’s trade policies. He said that senior Opposition members
went overseas to “protect Australia and its people”.
• The Sterling Homes Group (which recently effected a “reverse take-
over” of Alexanders Ltd) has erected an exhibition home with a 30 p.c.
plastic content at Warwick Farm, near Sydney. The frame is prefabricated
from steel sections, plastic treated to prevent rust, and bolted together.
The roof is fire resistant and moisture proof. The plastic materials were
imported from Japan.
OVERSEAS
• United Kingdom and the European Economic Community reached
the first formal agreement at the Ministerial talks in Brussels on
marketing of manufactured goods (except foodstuffs) from Australia, Canada
and New Zealand. The agreement, officially described as a “compromise”,
provides for a three-step application of the EEC common external tariff
by the UK to imports from the Commonwealth, to be completed by
January 1, 1970, if Britain joins the EEC. On joining, the UK would apply
30 p.c. of the common tariff immediately, raising it by another 30 p.c. on
January 1, 1967, and introducing the full tariff by January 1, 1970. Talks
on comparable outlets” and zero tariffs for temperate foodstuffs and
tropical products are continuing.
• The British Prime Minister, Mr H. Macmillan, and the French Presi-
dent, Gen. de Gaulle, met in Paris for vital talks on Britain’s entry into
the Common Market. It is believed that the talks centred on the French
doubts about the possibility of effective British membership and France’s
opposition to economic concessions to Britain’s Commonwealth trading
partners.
• Retail price of meat in the USSR increased by 30 p.c. and of butter
by 25 p.c. Prices of rayon fabrics were cut by 20 p.c. and of sugar
by 5 p.c.
® An Australian trade mission arrived in Montevideo, Uruguay, from
Argentina.
• A white paper issued by the Japanese Government under the Agri-
cultural Standards Law of 1961 predicts that a shortage of milk and meat
will develop in Japan because of the rising standards of living. Demand
for milk is expected to reach 7,050,000 to 9,600,000 tons by 1971 more
than four times the present figure. Demand for meat is estimated to reach
over 1,140,000 tons by the same year. The white paper urges that
adequate steps be taken to prevent sharp price increases. Rising Japanese
demand for meat and milk should improve our dairy and meat export
prospects. r
OIL
THE OLD SHORE LINE?
Increasing credence is being given in
J informed oil search circles to the
theory that oil discoveries are likely to
be closely related to the existence of
the old shore line which runs south from
Mackay (Q) through AOG’s Moonie
permit area terminating on the present
eastern fringe of the Sydney Basin.
Experts say that the proximity of the
Moonie strikes to the old shore line at
Middle Creek, some six miles north-east
of Moonie No. 3 where the Union-Kern-
AOG group intends to drill in the near
future, is very significant.
However, it is still believed that oil
formed in the sedimentary areas along
this line may well have migrated a con-
siderable way from it and this gives areas
some distance from the line a reasonable
chance of having trapped oil from the
region. But on the face of it, those
companies with permit areas running
lengthwise over the longitudinal line of
this shore line would stand a better
chance of making discoveries than those
whose areas stretch over wide distances
to the west of it. Thus one would expect
AAO group’s area due north of Moonie
as being in line for important discoveries,
then south of AOG’s area a small sector
of Mid Eastern’s permit, the Sterling oil
area held by E. W. Gulliver, and finally
the huge area of the Sydney Basin held
by AOG and the isolated permits of
Planet, L. H. Smart and one or two
others in the same basin.
The only drilling done so far in the
Sydney Basin has been by AOG, which
has put down about a dozen holes.
Planet Oil expects to probe its area near
East Maitland in the Sydney Basin with
a bore to 8000 ft. to commence early
next month. Planet also intends to drill
reasonably close to the old shore line
in the Bowen Basin in Queensland where
seismic survevs have disclosed a closed
structure at Warrinilla North.
Apart from AOG and AAO groups’
operations, the most interesting drilling
in the northern areas adjacent to the
shore line is to be done by Oil Develop-
ment on its permit in the Alpha district
of Queensland.
The participation of US interests in
Australian oil search has been extended
further by the Caltex announcement that
the company is to extend its exploration
links with Mid Eastern to cover 19,710
square miles in the Artesian Basin and
a further 2070 square miles in the
Clarence River Basin. This follows the
recent acquisition by Caltex of a 50 p.c.
undivided interest in the Magellan
(Queensland) permit area made known
last week. Thus Caltex and Mid Eastern
have joint exploration areas covering
some seven million acres.


Tfr e v
invests i»
8&
y*.
%
II
years
10
nd
for
1
*WOw
wm* 9 '
■■■■■:■-.
CSS
w »««u
w
BEG. FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
An investment in Reid Murray Accept-
ance Ltd. is an investment in one of
Australia's best-backed Companies. All
told, the Reid Murray group includes:
174 Retail Stores, 7 Wholesale Ware-
houses, Real Estate Companies in 5
States, and the Finance Company for
the group—Reid Murray Acceptance
Ltd.
Applications accepted only on forms at-
tached to the Prospectus. Available from:
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 1924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melb.
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William Street, Adelaide
Members of Stock Exch. of Adelaide Ltd.
FIXED LONG TERM STOCK
fhf
SHORT TERM NOTICE STOCK
M
5%
P.A.—on 3 months' notice
PAID-UP CAPITAL £7,000,000
RMA.22V
GUARANTEED BY REID MURRAY HOLDINGS LTD.
AVIATION
US MERGERS WORRY EUROPE
A t least four large mergers in American
civil aviation and railways are lin-
ing up for Government approval. A con-
flict between economic necessity and
political hostility to economic concen-
tration looks like becoming a major
issue. Growing competition from their
European rivals is the motive of a pro-
posed merger between the Pan American
and Trans-World airlines, the two main
American international air carriers.
The merger, which would strike a
blow at all the other major international
airlines, has not yet reached the Civil
Aeronautics Board, but is on the cards.
It will also need the approval of Presi-
dent Kennedy. A hint that the Board
might not oppose the merger was thrown
out by a staff study approved by the
board. The study suggests an investiga-
tion to decide whether the two airlines
might not divide the major European
cities between them, with Pan American
getting London, Frankfurt and Shan-
non, Trans-World having in return the
exclusive rights to serve Paris, Rome,
Lisbon and Madrid. The study also sug-
gests that beyond Cairo, Trans-World
should leave the Middle Eastern routes
to Pan American.
On the home front, the president of
Eastern Airlines, the fourth largest
American domestic airline, which wants
to merge with the American Airline, the
second largest, said that his com-
pany has ‘'borrowed to the limit” to
buy aircraft and has no way of paying
for 40 new jets it needs. The two mer-
gers do not exhaust possible changes in
the structure of American cr : l aviation
—changes dictated mainly by the need
to re-equip with expensive jet aircraft,
which have cut the operating surpluses
of all the world’s airlines. There is now a
possibility of a chain reaction of major
mergers, with the interest of Mr Eloward
Hughes, the secretive and crotchety mil-
lionaire, at the middle of it.
Mr Hughes’ Tool Corporation, which
owns 78 p.c. of Trans-World, is seeking
the control of another major domestic
airline, North-Eastern, with routes be-
tween New England and Florida. It is
believed this could lead to a giant new
grouping of Pan American, Trans-
world, North-Eastern and minor local
lines.
Such a grouping would obviously in-
vite an attack on anti-trust grounds. The
Labor unions, other airlines and assorted
political interests are already fighting the
comparatively minor Eastern - American
merger tooth and nail.


COMPANY REVIEWS AND NOTES
MARK FOY’S LTD
LOWEST PROFIT SINCE 1935
JVTark Foy’s Ltd, Sydney emporium, in
the year ended February 28, 1962,
produced its lowest profit since 1935.
On this announcement a couple of weeks
ago, news emerged of a proxy battle be-
tween members of the Foy family for
control of the company. This should be
settled at the annual meeting on June 11.
Outside shareholders hope that manage-
ment will then concentrate on the task of
reviving the business.
For 53 years the company’s major busi-
ness has been carried out from two large
freehold properties in Liverpool Street,
near Central Station, but shifts in the
distribution of population and changes in
Sydney’s transport system have robbed
these outlets of much of their potential
trade.
A property on the corner of Elizabeth
and King Streets has been opened as
Mark Foy’s “Little Shop” within the last
two years, to pick up some of the down-
town trade, and tentative moves have
been made in the direction of suburbia.
A site opposite David Jones’ store in
Parramatta is to be developed, and a
new fashion outlet was secured on the
North Shore by the purchase of Mon-
ique’s Boutique at Pymble. On the other
hand a vacant site at Fairfield has been
sold, and the top-floor restaurant in the
main store closed.
The company has a car-park adjacent
to the main store, and a manufacturing
subsidiary, Target Woollen Mills.
After making a good recovery in 1961
from the 1958 low-point, the latest drop
in profit from £135,514 to £18,838 must
come as a sharp disappointment to
shareholders. The credit squeeze can
hardly be blamed for the whole of this
reversal: —
. Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit 6 p.c Ordinary, serves, serves.
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
1952 135.957 16.374 12>/ 2 = 67,546 52,037 521,808
1953 111,193 16 374 10 =54,037 40,782 562,590
Profit sale a.ssets, £7OO .. .. 568,290
1954 133,167 16,374 12V 2 = 67,546 49,247 612,537
Unexplained addition, £875 .. 613,412
1955 163,867 16,374 15 =81,054 66,439 679,851
Unexplained addition, £1282 .. 681,133
1956 134,906 16.374 1214 = 67,546 50,986 732,119
Unexplained addition, £230 .. 732,349
1957 95,825 16,374 1214 = 67,546 11,905 744,254
Profit sale assets, £4365 .. 748,619
1958 88,429 16,374 10 =54,037 18,018 766,637
Profit sale assets, £4009 .. 770,646
1959 103,099 16,374 11 =59,440 27,285 797,931
Profit sale assets, £lOB 798,039
1960 116,256 16,374 1214 = 67,546 32,336 830,375
Less long service leave £25,000 805,375
Profit sale assets, £ 1028 .. 806 403
1961 135,514 16,374 1214 = 67,546 51,594 857,997
Profit sale assets, £243 .. 858,240
Less unexplained reduction, £5264 852,976
1962 18,838 16,374 1214 =67 546 65,082 *787,894
* Subject to £2,362 intangibles as at 28/2/62.
Depreciation provision for 1962 was
£28,551 compared with £24,039 in 1961.
No taxation provision is given.
Consolidated accounts were given for
the first time in 1962. The holding com-
pany in fact recorded a loss of £41,093
for the year.
After paying the usual preference divi-
dends of £16,374, profit was equal to 4.6
p.c. on ordinary capital, compared with
18.5 p.c., 16, 13.3, 14.7, 21.9 and 27.5
p.c. back to 1955.
The chairman (Mr A. V. Hancock)
told shareholders in his annual report
that the board had pursued an aggressive
trading policy and a substantial increase
in turnover had been achieved in the
opening months of the current financial
year. “In view of the improvement in
business since balancing date and the
strong financial position of the com-
pany,” he added, “it has been decided
to recommend the payment of a final
dividend.”
Raising of £lOO,OOO in an unsecured
loan enabled reduction in creditors’ ac-
counts and in indebtedness to the bank
over the last financial term. Stocks and
debtors were also considerably lower at
balance date than in the previous year.
To date no statement has been made
as to whether any of the current profit
fall is attributable to writing down of
stock:
1960 1961 1962
Paid capital—
Pref 272,902 272,902 272,902
Ord. 540,367 540,367 540,367
Reserves 830,375 857,997 787,894
Unsecured loan 100,000
Overdraft 177 462 348,575 214,739
Creditors 236,741 217,966 133,479
Sundry provisions 192,801 181,346 169,193
Tax provision 119,121 166,747 66,677
Final divs. 48,715 41,960 41,960
£2,418,484 £2,627,860 £2.327 211
Freeholds 878,009 891,524 895,736
Plant etc 101,000 125,000 125,000
Investments 6 129 14,282 14,282
Stocks 1,016,927 1,118,905 960,946
Debtors etc 406,311 474,759 326,124
Cash 10,108 3,390 2,761
Goodwill 2,362
£2,418,484 £2,627,860 £2,327 211
Outside shareholders must wait for pre-
sentation of 1963 accounts in conformity
with the new Companies Act, to deter-
mine whether Foy’s directors were justi-
fied in apparently risking liquidity to hold
the 12i p.c. dividend by drawing on
reserves. Their prior knowledge of the
true strength of the company, or an
astute judgment of the current trading
trend and their ability to ride it, may
prove management to be right.
Fending settlement of managerial
problems and reports of more concrete
progress, investors need not hasten to
part with 12s. 6d. for each ss. share. The
5 p.c. income yield looks rather preca-
rious for the present.
QUEENSLAND CAN CO. LTD
SHARES LOOK GOOD BUYING
Quite apart from the hullabaloo over
Howards Ltd, investors would be
waiting for the 1962 accounts of Queens-
land Can Co. Ltd with some impatience.
A one-for-five bonus and the acquisition
of Paper and Board Industries Ltd has
lifted capital from £1,050,453 at last
balance date to £1,812,543.
If the Howards purchase is effected
before June 30 the offer is recom-
mended by directors paid capital
would be £2,437,961 or not far short of
four times the 1960 capital.
The company was formed in 1921
and carried on the business of can manu-
facturing at West End, Brisbane. The
offset paper printing section, begun in
1938, was extended to include the manu-
facture of corrugated and solid fibre
containers, with the opening of a factory
at Moorooka in 1948. A can-making
firm in Townsville, Northern Manufac-
tures Pty Ltd catering for the meat in-
dustry, was acquired in 1956. This plant
now makes solid fibre containers, flexible
packaging, four gallon drums and crown
seals.
A building in Yeerongpilly was pur-
chased in 1959 to house the growing
flexible packaging business. Plastic tubes
and sheeting are made by the subsidiary,
Agricultural Industrial Plastics Pty Ltd.
At Rocklea on a 48 acre site, Queens-
land Can makes crown seals and open-
top cans. The plant was established in
1960 and considerable sums have been
spent on modern tinprinting and lacquer-
ing equipment and drying ovens.
During 1960 the company issued
140,000 20s. ordinary shares to Con-
tainers Ltd, of Melbourne, in exchange
for technical information and machinery
from that company and its overseas as-
sociates, The Metal Box Co. of England
and Continental Can Co. of U.S.A.
Since last balance date Queensland
Can trespassed over state borders to take
over a promising packager, Paper and
Board Industries Ltd, with factories in
East Oakleigh (Vic.), Berri (SA), and
Fremantle (WA). The tvvo latter factories
are new. Products include waterproof
wrapping papers, bituminous building
materials, corrugated fibre board and
boxes.
Disclosed profit has shown regular
progression over the years, 1959 being
an exceptional year with excellent meat


Dependable, Profitable
GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED!
' I —I I —— ——MW
THE
SYDNEY
WATER BOARD
£5 <7 Wo
LOAN
For 8, 15 or 25 years
The New South Wales Government unconditionally guarantees half-
yearly interest and full repayment of principal at maturity.
An Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W., Queensland, Western
Australia and Tasmania.
Tax Concessions for Pension and Superannuation Funds. The Loan
is an approved investment for Trustees wishing to qualify for taxation
concessions applicable to these funds.
Cash Applications may be made for one or more of the three terms.
Conversions. Holders of securities in two Loans which matured Ist
June No. 81 (£4/2/6%) and No. 175 (£5/5/-%) are invited to
convert to the new Loan and secure higher interest without interruption.
INVEST OR CONVERT at any office of the Commonwealth Trading
Bank; Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited; Bank of New South
Wales; Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited; English,
Scottish and Australian Bank Limited; Rural Bank of New South Wales;
or through a Stockbroker; or at the Board’s offices.
Loan underwritten by
ERNEST L. DAVIS & CO. RALPH W. KING & YUILL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
and fruit seasons. In that year a record
profit allowed payment of a 2i p.c.
bonus to celebrate Queensland’s centen-
ary.
The real earnings capacity of the com-
pany is indicated by the heavy deprecia-
tion charges nudging £200,000 in
each of the last three years and the
tax provision which in the last two
years has exceeded declared profits.
The published net profit has increased
from £143,325 in 1960 to £155,537 in
1961 (year to June 30), after providing
£171,500 for tax (1960 £193,300) and
£192,788 (£197,046) for depreciation.
The tax provision indicates that in the
eyes of the Tax Commissioner the net
profit (after tax) was nearer £290,000
and £260,000 in th; last two years:—
Net* To
June Profit Dividends Reserves Reserves
30 £ £ £ £
1957 115,908 10 p.c. = 70,837 45,071 384,133
Intangibles written off 669 383,464
1958 139,162 10 p.c =75,871 63,291 446,755
1959 170,753 12>/ 2 p.c: = 94,838 75,915 522,670
1960 143,325 10 p.c. = 75,871 67,454 590,124
1961 155,537 10 p.c. = 92,987 62,550 652,674
•After deducting contributions to staff funds.
The earning rate on ordinary capital ap-
parently was 16.7 p.c. in 1961, and 18.9,
22.5, 18.3, and 16.3 p.c. back to 1957.
Ev. these conservatively stated figures
give adequate cover for the usual 10 p.c.
dividend.
The last balance sheet showed net addi-
tional investment of £i million in free-
hold and plant, and another £i million
in stocks. The shares issued to Contain-
ers and the one-for-five par issue of Sep-
tember 1960 provided £291,742 during
the last financial year, but a cash posi-
tion of £187,449 in 1960 had been con-
verted to an overdraft of £374,635 by
June 30, 1961: —
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
Paid capital-
-1959 1960 1961
Ordinary 758,711 758,711 1,050,453
Reserves 522,670 590,124 652,674
Secured Loan 121,325 113,325 105,325
Overdraft 6,571 374,635
Creditors 132,910 215,190 356,555
Tax provision 166,948 185,448 179,410
Other provisions 40,000 40,000 40,000
Pinal dividend 56,903 37,936 52,523
£1,806,038 £1,940,734 £2,811,575
Freehold
plant etc. £638,882 719,212 1,238,306
Investments 500 500 15,500
Stocks 622,681 510,154 1,034,037
Debtors 485,013 523,419 520 540
Cash etc. 58,962 187,449 3,192
£1,806,038 £1,940,734 £2,811,575
The company has a small secured loan
with the AMP Society as its only long
term liability. Directors said in August
1960, when announcing the last issue,
that funds other than capital were readily
available to the company. Apparently
they preferred to invite shareholders to
subscribe any capital that was necessary.
When the Brisbane motor dealer
Howards Ltd offered itself for takeover,
Queensland Can jumped in as the second
bidder, and after a counter-bid by
Queensland United Foods, improved its


terms to two Can ss. shares and Is.
cash for each Howards ss. share.
Motor distributing may sound alien to
the business of packaging, but Queens-
land Can has announced its intention to
continue marketing Morris, Austin, and
Studebaker vehicles. The attraction, of
course, was the liquid funds which
Howards possessed. At March 31
Howards had £350,000 invested in short-
term Treasury bonds, £50,000 in the
short term money market, stock ex-
change investments worth £493,436 and
£10,564 in the bank. For the issue of
£625,418 capital and payment of
£62,542 cash, Queensland Can can
acquire £904,000 worth of liquid assets
plus a motor business, assuming it ob-
tains 90 p.c. acceptance from Howards
shareholders. In anybody’s language
this is a good deal.
Although the business depends heavily
on the prosperity of the exporting prim-
ary industries of meat and fruit, the
future of which is clouded by Common
Market considerations, the product
range has widened extensively in recent
years, and the confidence with which
directors have guided huge expansion
programmes cannot fail to impress in-
vestors.
If the Howards takeover proceeds
smoothly, another call on shareholders
for capital will be delayed, but cash
issues and eventually a free issue can be
expected.
Prior to the Paper and Board ac-
quisition, interest in Queensland Can
shares was mainly local, but now that
the shares are also dealt in on Melbourne
Exchange, the stock is more widely ap-
preciated.
The net tangible asset backing of 335.
sd. per 20s. ordinary share is now purely
historical. The shares have since been
split to ss. units, and a purchase can
currently be made at around 12s. to
yield 3.9 p.c. Entry can be made a few
pence cheaper through Howards shares.
Ex-Howards shareholders need not
hurry to take their profit. Queensland
Can shares still look very good buying.
YOUNGHUSBAND LTD
STRAIN OF FINANCING FELT
73 years Younghusband Ltd has
A operated as woolbroker, stock-and-
station agent, merchant and pastoral fin-
ancier. With headquarters in Melbourne
and a Sydney office, the company main-
tains 28 branches in the favored pastoral
areas of Northern Victoria and 27 in the
Riverina district of NSW. It acts as a
selling broker at the Melbourne and
Albury wool sales and in 1960-61
handled about 2.93 p.c. of the Australian
woolclip. Operating subsidiaries are L.
A. Fairbairn and Co. and Macleod and
Booth.
The Riverina network has been ex-
tended in the last financial term by the
acquisition of the stock and station busi-
ness of Albert Brown and Co. of
Tocumwal.
The company’s profits fluctuate ac-
cording to the season and wool prices.
The boom period of 1950-51 produced a
profit about 70 p.c. above the previous
record.
The average price per lb. in Australia
for greasy wool sold at auction during
the first nine months of the season be-
ginning on July 1, 1961 was 55.94 d.,
an increase of 6.64 p.c. compared with
the previous season. Japanese demand
continued strong but support from other
sections weakened.
The chairman (Mr T. C. Trumble)
told shareholders in his annual report
that wool stocks in the main consuming
countries were below normal, reflecting
improved retail demand, but current
prospects depended on the financial
ability of Japan to support the market to
the same extent as in recent years.
In 1960 a record quantity of wool
was handled and a substantial rise in
wool values was accompanied by a well
distributed enquiry, evenly spread over
the period, producing one of the steadi-
est periods for selling conditions experi-
enced for a number of years.
Since then profits have declined, and
dividends have been shorn from 10 to
7i p.c. The 1962 profit of £164,516 after
£115,000 provision for tax and £56,406
for depreciation compares with the 1961
result of £178,243 after £125,000 tax
and £53,659 depreciation:
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit* Dividends serves serves
£ £ £ £
1955 168,234 12 p.c. = 147,000 21,234 536,862
Profit sale assets, £37,000 .. .. 573,862
Written off goodwill, £3OOO .. 570,862
1956 10 p.c. = 122,500 22,482 593,344
Written off goodwill, £lO,OOO .. 583,344
1957 10 p.c =122,500 28,031 611,375
Written off goodwill, £12,200 .. 599,175
1958 9 p.c.—132,300 17,296 616,471
Tax overprovided, £20,352 .. 636,823
Profits attributable to prior
years. £48.042 684.865
Unexplained additions, £32,714 717 579
1959 10 p.C. = 147,000 713’432
Capital profit, £8713 722’145
Tax overprovided, £1750 .. .. 723 895
Goodwill written off, £3900 .. 719’995
Asset revaluation, £474,000 .. 1,193 995
Reserves capitalised, £294,000 !! ’899 995
1960 10 p.c =154,350 63.296 963,291
Less tax underprovided, £7075 956 216
Profit sale assets, £7250 .. .. 963,466
Less Intangibles written off,
£ 6595 Qsg 071
1961 7’/ 2 = 132.300 45,943 1,002’814
Profit sale assets, £14,418 . .. 1 017 232
Less Intangibles written off,
£ 1,300 . . .. } Q 25 939
IQR9 7 R a Ai« VerproV i? ed ’ £3161 •• 1 !0i 9 ’093
la 47 164 ' 5 6 .„ ?% = 132,300 32,216 1,051,309
Alter contributions to staff fund.
Earning rates have varied:—l3.7 p.c. in
1955, then 11.8, 12.3, 10.1, 9.7, 14.1,
12.2 and 11.1 in 1962. In January 1960
a one-for-five bonus capitalised £294,000
of the £474,000 revaluation of certain
freeholds. Present reserves give an asset
backing of 7s. lid. for each ss. ordinary
share. The last cash issue was in Janu-
ary 1957 one-for-five at par.
A reduction of almost £im. in clients’
current accounts and sundry debtors per-
mitted a similar reduction in the liability
to sundry clients, trade creditors and
payment in transit: —
1960 1961 1962
Paid capital 1.764,000 1.764,000 1.764,000
Reserves 963,291 1,002,814 1,051,309
Creditors 991,860 1,947,714 1,363,243
Tax provision 132,000 125,000 115.000
Staff funds 83,844 93,217 103,027
Final dividend 95,550 79,380 79,380
£4,030,545 £5,012,125 £4,475,959
1960 1961 1962
Land, buildings 1,288,268 1,307,676 1,320,530
Plant 244,435 273,911 256,557
Merchandise 101,160 129,834 146,796
Advances, etc. 2,329,554 3,006,880 2,551,868
Cash, etc. 67,128 293,824 200,208
£4.030,545 £5,012,125 £4,475,959
Woolbrokers and stock and station
agents are committed to the role of
rural banking and their accounts reveal
the inflexibility of their finances. They
stand or fall with the producers, as
no doubt the producers stand or fall
with them.
The rural houses, of course, maintain
that somehow this circle must soon be
broken, for their financing of clients
strains resources to the limit. They urge
the case for greater Government assist-
ance to rural industry. In point of fact
the Commonwealth Development Bank
has taken some of the strain over the
last couple of years.
The giants in the field have consoli-
dated their interests for reasons of econ-
omy and greater borrowing power, and
unless Younghusband appeals to one
of these for its representation in areas
where Elder Smith, Goldsbrough Mort
or Dalgety-New Zealand Loan may be
weak, the shares at 7s. 4d. to yield 5.1
p.c. have no outstanding merit.
ISAS NSW LTD
PROFIT, DIVIDEND HALVED
Tsas nsw ltd, which distributes construc-
A tion equipment, experienced a halving
of profit in the year to March 31, and
has cut dividend from 10 to 5 p.c.
The result was £20,677 after £ 16,043
tax and £12,612 depreciation. The best
profit to date was recorded in 1959-60.
The 1960-61 profit was £40,478 after
£31,480 tax and £13,139 depreciation.
Directors said trading in the latest term
was at a reduced level and they had
great difficulty in maintaining an even
monthly volume. Demand for spare
parts and services was satisfactory, al-
though lower than estimated.
A one-for-two issue of 20s. shares was
made at a ss. premium in August 1960.
The 10 p.c. dividend rate had been main-
tained for four years from 1958.


dhfd
Top
people
of
to-morrow
bank ‘RURAL’
to-day
Once, it was only the ‘Top People’ who
used a Cheque Account; the average person
paid bills by cash.
Today, however, more and more young
people realise the advantages of a
cheque account; they know that people at
the top all have cheque accounts . . .
That’s why ‘Top People of tomorrow bank
Rural today’.
RURAL BANK
FOR EVERY CLASS OF TRADING BANK BUSINESS
“makes money work"
HEAD OFFICE: Martin Place, Sydney
ANTHONY HORDERN
STAGGERING LOSS
staggering loss suffered by
A Anthony Hordern and Sons Ltd
takes one back to the only previous
fatality, in 1932. After that directors
were forced to pass ordinary dividends
for four years and preferences for two.
The present board, though shocked, con-
fesses itself hopeful of a much briefer
convalescence. A return path is not made
any easier under the economy’s slow re-
covery, yet cautious optimism seems
justified.
Balancing date for 1961-62 will not be
until August, to cover an 18-months
period. But a statement for a year to
February had been promised and it is
for this year that the consolidated net
loss is estimated at £376,033. No in-
terim ordinary dividend can be paid; the
3f p.c. interim preference charge is to
be met on June 22.
First consolidated accounts were pre-
sented only last year, following the Hord-
ern Bros, and McCathies takeovers.
Things did not look too bright even then,
for the group profit of £199,418 was
only just above the 1959-60 parent earn-
ings and failed to cover dividend necessit-
ies by £49,939.
The company has struggled with all
its problems at once, and some of them
have been beyond the normal retail line
of troubles. Costs and the credit squeeze
have proved bad enough, but on top of
this common situation was thrust “the
inevitable loss of turnover” arising from
ambitious alterations and reorganisation.
Directors were perhaps a little sanguine
in thinking they could overcome their
trials earlier than seems probable.
They ascribe the trading portion of the
loss, £326,933, to the price of reorgani-
sation and also to a competitively attuned
stock write down. It will be remembered
that a previous writing-down of stock,
necessary in 1958-59, produced a
£74,000 loss, partly covered by the pre-
vious year’s fluctuation provision of
£50,000. The present adjustment does
not approach this figure, it is understood.
The balance of the loss, £49,100, is
taken up by interest charges on unpro-
ductive capital expenditure ("the car park,
remodelling of city shopping centre and
Hordern Bros.).
Directors last year emphasised the es-
sential soundness of their retailing con-
cepts and programmes. They now assert
that, with major plans complete, “the
company has come through the pain of
reorganisation with store facilities which
are modern with new concepts of mer-
chandising, and with a well-trained staff.”
The loss is expected to be cut back
considerably by August.
All branches are showing better re-
sults and the honest comment is made
that “the trend is favorable but slow.”
A good contribution should come from
the finance subsidiary, Haymarket Fin-
ance Co., launched last December. It
has taken on outside business and leas-
ing, as well as intra-group financing,
and outstandings exceed £2im.
Special interest must attach to the
August stock and overdraft position. Per-
haps directors will realise the urgency of
publishing a preliminary account of the
full 18-month period as quickly as pos-
sible.


CUSTOM CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
(PAID UP CAPITAL £7,000,000)
xSS?
mm&i MMdXdm,
mm
7%.. .4 years and over
6%. ..12 months' notice
5%...6 months' notice
4%.. • 3 months' notice
Interest is paid in Equal Quarterly Instalments
Free of Exchange, on the last days of June,
September, December and March.
TRUSTEES
FOR THE DEBENTURE HOLDERS:
The Perpetual Trustee Company (ltd.)
DIRECTORS
lan M. Jacoby
(Chairman and Managing Director)
L. W. Coppleson G. T. Hartigan
R. E. Ash C. S. Gittoes
This is not a Prospectus. A copy of the Prospectus
covering this issue of Registered Debentures has been
lodged with the Registrar of Companies, Sydney.
Application must be made on the Forms enclosed
in the Prospectus, which is now available from
All Members of
The Stock Exchange
All Branches of
The National Bank
and.
Custom Credit Corporation
limited
100 New South Head Road, Edgecliff, Sydney
Secretary-General: KEITH LOVE. Tel.: 32-0111
RD42.562
R. W. MILLER
GLAMOROUS FLOAT
A huge and historic family enterprise
hits the lists with the public flota-
tion of R. W. Miller (Holdings) Ltd.
Predictions of this glamorous event have
long ruffled Stock Exchange corridors.
It turns out to be, almost as one might
expect, an lan Potter job and brings into
the open a company with initial paid
capital of £3.5m.
At the end of this month the public
is to be offered a 34.3 p.c. interest by
an issue of 2.4 m. 10s. shares at a 2s. 6d.
premium. Funds raised will thus total
£l.sm. £l.2m. capital and £300,000
premium. A careful dividend policy sug-
gests an 8 p.c. yearly rate, which is more
than twice covered by recent profits,
Tax adjusted earnings may be as high
as £600,000 for 1960-61, representing
a 17.2 p.c. earning rate.
The holding company shelters a varied
host of subsidiaries, all fairly well known
in NSW business life. First to strike the
eye are the brewery and hotel activities,
perhaps responsible for about half the
group’s profits. Other principal interests
are the production and distribution of
coal (from the Northern NSW fields),
shipping and stevedoring, and road trans-
portation.
Additional funds so soon to become
available will most certainly stimulate
further competition among the State’s
battling brewers. For Millers have
focussed a lot of attention on this parti-
cular activity over recent years. Acqui-
sition of the old Briton’s brewery in
Parramatta Road, Sydney, brought also
a hotel chain. The chain has been effi-
ciently and strategically extended.
The proprietary company, established
in 1919, emerged from the stevedoring
business started by the late Captain R.
W. Miller. Captain Miller died in 1958
and the family element at present com-
prises his three sons Mr Roderick
Miller (to be chairman and managing
director of the public company), Mr
Robert Miller and Mr Marcus Miller.
The other present director is Mr S.
G. Pearce. He will be joined by Mr W.
G. Walkley, Ampcl’s managing director,
who comes on to the board as a result
of the Miller-Ampol ownership of the
Sylvania Hotel.
PRESTIGE LTD
DRAMATIC RECOVERY
T>restige Ltd, hosiery and textile
maker, rallied from a position where
no profit was made in Australia in the
first six months, to produce a 29 p.c.
lift in group profit for the year to March
31.
Profit was £166,588, compared with
£129,982 in 1960-61 and £176,028 in
1959-60. Tax and depreciation have
not so far been disclosed. The profit is
after eliminating minority interests, and
does not include a £2222 profit on sale
of assets.
The ordinary dividend is held at 10
p.c. with a final li p.c. payment, and
absorbs £84,237. After the preference
charge, earnings are equal to 16.7 p.c.
(1960 12.3 p.c.) on ordinary capital.
In the interim report directors spoke
of sales and profit improvement in New
Zealand. Obviously Australian turnover
recovered dramatically in the second half.
Raw materials manufacture is the
biggest single aspect of Prestige’s busi-
ness. This includes manufacture of yarns,
woven and knitted rayon, worsted,
woollen and synthetic fibre piecegoods,
and finishing work for other finished
goods manufacturers.


-5:-:
Brands
YOUR
FAVOURITE
BRANDY
BRANDY
AUSTRALIA'S PREMIER CONVENTION CENTRE
hfdh
SURFERS PARADISE GOLD COASI, QUEENSLAND
“OUT-OF-THIS-WORLD” CONVENTION FACILITIES
at CHEVRON you will discover the happy combination ol
business and pleasure . . . complete convention facilities—plus
an ideal climate superb accommodation, and a staff
of Service-wise personnel to ensure complete
satisfaction for a successful Convention.
• Meeting facilities for groups ranging up
to 1000 delegates.
• The latest trends in design, equipment and
furnishings.
• The Tariffs are very moderate.
Write today for FREE Colour Brochure, giving layout and full c
details to help you plan a bigger and better Convention.
CHEVRON HOTEL, SURFERS PARADISE, GOLD COAST, QUEENSLAND
"T •
a
*ll*Si
FREDERICK ROSE LTD
TAKEOVER OF TASMAN
HThe smallest “shell” on local exchanges,
Frederick Rose Ltd, is about to be
filled by the Tasman Dry Cleaning group.
Tasman first took the precaution of
acquiring the holding of principal share-
holders at the enhanced price of 16s. 6d.
a Is. share. This enabled Frederick Rose
confidently to bid for Tasman.
Three directors of Frederick Rose
resigned as a result of the Tasman pur-
chase of majority holdings in Rose. Their
replacements and the other original mem-
bers of the board have made an offer to
acquire all the assets and undertakings of
Tasman Dry Cleaners (Holding) Ltd to
be effected by a share exchange.
Frederick Rose began business in 1934
as a maker of veneer panels, but recently
investments have provided most of its
income. Since the return of 19s. per 20s.
share in 1948, paid capital has been
£l6Ol, the smallest of any listed on Aus-
tralian exchanges.
Authorised capital will be increased
from £2500 to £250,000 to accommodate
the takeover of Tasman. Tasman is one
of the four largest dry-cleaning groups in
NSW, with assets exceeding £125,000 on
recent valuation. It has a central dry
cleaning plant at Balmain and more than
100 shops and agencies throughout the
Sydney area.
Frederick Rose has not paid a divi-
dend since the 100 p.c. distribution in
1954-55. Last year a small profit was
sufficient to convert a debit balance in
profit and loss account to a small credit
figure.
A. AND I. DISCOUNTERS
NEW CREDIT HOUSE
lndustries Ltd and Austra-
lian and International Insurances Ltd
have joined to establish a new credit
house —A. and I. Discounters Ltd. Of
the initial paid capital, £BOO,OOO in
10s. shares, £125,000 will be offered
for public subscription. The sponsoring
groups are to provide £300,000, their
shareholders obtain prior general right to
£175,000, and the underwriter, A. C.
Goode and Co., nominates allottees of
£200,000.
A dividend of 8 p.c. is indicated from
the first year’s operations. Following the
share issue, directors propose to issue
£500,000 of registered unsecured notes,
also underwritten by A. C. Goode. A.
and I. will open branches at Melbourne,
Sydney, Perth and Hobart. Melbourne,
Sydney and Perth listings are to be
sought.
First activities will embrace short-
term bridging finance for house mort-
gages. The sponsors see a need for a
related and specialised company to “take
the considerable and profitable overflow
of business”. Gross income should cover
all interest charges and costs “and leave
a substantial net profit even in the first
year”.
The company will move into long-term
mortgages, hire-purchase bulk financing
and some factoring. Directors are Sir
Arthur Warner (chairman), Electronic’s
chairman and managing director, and A.
E. Sandover, A. Hale (general manager
of Australian and International), J. N.
Marks and P. R. Warner.
URANIUM
A JITTERY FUTURE
jittery future confronting world
uranium received startling illumina-
tion from recent Canadian negotiations.
Australia’s Minister for National De-
velopment (Senator W. H. Spooner), who
has just decided to continue Rum Jungle
operations after expiry of original con-
tracts, and the Rio Tinto-Mary Kathleen
complex are probably taking further
deep thought.
After really close-fisted discussions
with the Canadian Government, the UK
Atomic Energy Authority has decided
to buy 12,000 tons of uranium it doesn’t
really need. The price? Close to $5 a
pound—s 3 below what Canada wanted
and less than half the usual return. The
AEA possesses eight years’ supply, as
stock or on order, some of which comes
from Australia. A write-down of its
value has started.
The new rate will certainly determine
world prices. Canada gets a respite till
the early 19705. Australia’s present con-
tracts fade out well before then.


Terms of
Issue
Books
Close
Terms of
Payment
Company
Class
Number
Remarks
A.C.P. and Shirleys Ferti-
lizers
. .
20s.
272,000
1 for 4 at
May 25
n/a
To share and
par
noteholders
Aust. Factors
, 4
5s.
515,000
1 for 4 at
In full on
par
May 16
June 15
Aust. Paper Manu-
facturers
Brick Industries ..
•*
20S.
4.383.750
1 for 4
bonus
June 29
5 s.
2,928,216
3 for a at
May 28
2/6 on
Entitlement
2/6 premium
application
includes
Burns Plxilp & Co.
June 25
bonus issue
••
20s.
1.200,000
1 for 5
bonus
1 for 7 at
October 31
Colonial Sugar Refining
20s.
n/a
July 31
15s. on
* After
10/-
October 1
splitting £20
premium*
shares to
Commercial Banking
Co.
1 for 15
20s. units
of Sydney .. .
20/
499,200
bonus
August 17
Commercial Banking
Co.
1 for 15
ol Sydney ,.
Commercial Union
••
20/
5s.
512,800
1,500.000
at par
1 for 2 at.
August 17
June 5
n/a
n/a
n/a
Indoor Bowling Aust.
5s.
400,666
7/6 premium
1 for 6 at
May 31
In full on
To share and
Interstate Oil
5s.
4,000,000
par
2 for 3 at
April 27
June 30
In full on
noteholders
Lords Holdings ..
10s.
80,000
par
1 for 4 at
May 15
June 8
In full on
New Zealand
Insurance
, #
20s. *
*C” 2,366.400
2/6 premium
58 for 100
June 15
August 28
To ordinary or
**B”
Pacific Island Mines
2/6
406.320
bonus
1 for 1 at
May 18
2s. 6d. on
shareholders
Queensland Press
10s.
12,260.097
par
1 for 2 at
July 30
June 18
10s. on
Sangara ,.
58.
n/a
par
for 2 at par
May 17
October 1
In full on
Southern Pacific Insur-
June 15
ance
5/
960,000 I for 1 bonus
June 15
1 for 5 bonus
to holders of
to holders of
f.p. shares
contributing
shares paid
Tarnx Drinks Holdings
5s.
628,052
1 for 4 at
April 26
10s. on
to Is.
Woodworths
••
5s.
12,406,650
5/- premium
1 for 5 at
August 15
June 15
January 24,
To share and
Woolworths (N.Z.)
•-
5s.
2.097,074
2 for 5 at
March 22
1963
In full on
noteholders
par
June 30
(FRANK CAMBRIDGE PIT LTD )
COPPER SPOT
COPPER PWD
LEAD SPOT ..
LEAD FWD ..
ZINC SPOT ..
ZINC FWD
TIN SPOT
TIN FWD
••
BUYING
£st£. £ A.
234 5 0 292 16
232 IS 0 290 13
60 5 0 75 6
59 10 0 74 7
69 12 6 87 0
70 2 6 87 13
934 0 0 1167 10
944 0 0 1180 0
3
9
3
6
8
2
0
0
SELLING
£stg. £A.
234 10 0 293 2
233 0 0 291 5
60 10 0 75 12
59 12 6 74 10
69 15 0 87 3
70 5 0 87 16
934 10 0 1168 2
945 0 0 1181 5
6
0
6
8
9
3
6
0
BRITISH TOBACCO
"REASONABLE" RECOVERY AHEAD
HPhat somewhat battered old leader
British Tobacco Co. (Australia) Ltd
indicates a 9 p.c. dividend for the
current year, against the 8 p.c. paid for
the year to October 31 last. A second
interim at 2i p.c. has brought up 4i p.c.
for the six months ended April 30. Up
to 1960-61 a 10 p.c. rate had ruled for
seven years.
A 1961-62 final is to be declared in
November, with no further interims “in
keeping with the previously announced
variation in the pattern of dividend pay-
ments”. Directors, however, are pleased
to record a “reasonable” profit recovery
up to April. This is cautiously ascribed
to improved machinery and manufactur-
ing methods.
The cautiousness extends to predicting
future performance, for a measure of
trepidation (curiously shared between
producers and consumers) is induced
until “the full effects of the campaign on
smoking and health generated by the
Royal College of Physicians’ report” are
resolved. British Tobacco can only an-
nounce stable cigarette sales up to April.
This position represents a balance of
repeated growth by the principal filter
brand (Craven A King Size) and repeated
decline in non-filter Virginias. The re-
cently introduced State Express 555 King
Size filter tip has gained very favorable
acceptance. Investors must still remain
patient to learn whether a two-year profit
withdrawal has been arrested and what
benefits are being derived from the
printing, tenpin bowling and pastoral
diversifications.
CAPITAL ISSUES PENDING
LONDON METAL PRICES
ADVERTISING
COMPANIES ACT CHANGED
PThra new Companies Act which comes
A into force in NSW on July 1, has
special interest for companies seeking to
raise money by the sale of shares or
debentures.
The existing Act provides that any
advertisement offering shares or deben-
tures to the public is deemed to be a
prospectus if it contains any information
other than—
• The number and discription of the
shares or debentures concerned;
• The name and date of registration
of the corporation and its paid-up share
capital;
• The general nature of the main busi-
ness of the corporation;
• The names, addresses and occupa-
tions of the directors, brokers or under-
writers, and, in the case of debentures,
the trustee for the debenture holders;
• The name of the stock exchange of
which the brokers or underwriters are
members; and
• Particulars of the opening and
closing dates of the offer, and the time
and place at which copies of the full
prospectus and forms of application may
be obtained.
But here is the significant provision—
the onus of seeing that such advertise-
ments complied with the Act under a
penalty of £5OO, was placed upon those
who “published or disseminated them by
newspaper, broadcasting, television, cine-
matograph or any other means whatso-
ever”. This was an intolerable responsi-
bility that worried particularly newspapers
and radio and TV stations, and it also
could make unwitting victims of mail
order services, newsagents and even postal
employees who distribute hundreds of
thousands of investment circulars every
year. And every individual was liable to
a penalty of £5OO.
The Government saw the injustice of
this when approached, and the new Act
will limit responsibility to the corpora-
tion offering the shares or debentures for
sale. A lot of innocent people will now
breath more freely.
MARYBOROUGH KNITTING
PROFIT SUPS AGAIN
Turnings of Maryborough Knitting
(Cuttle) Ltd dropped for the
second successive year in the term to
March 31, 1962. But dividends were
held at 12i p.c. on both ordinary and
participating preference shares.
Profit was £38,099, compared with
£42,192 in 1961 and £58,211 in 1960.
Tax was £2325 lower at £28,300 and
depreciation unchanged at £15,000.
Dividends require £31,031 of profits.
Earnings rate was 15.4 p.c. on total
capital.


WILD CAT BREVITIES
• Electronic Industries Ltd is still push-
ing sales upwards. The chairman (Sir
Arthur Warner) draws particular atten-
tion to strong hardware turnover.
• Queenslander A. C. F. and Shirleys
Fertilizers Ltd earned peak profit of
£131,964 in the year to February 28,
1962.
• A big American financial group will
continue to pour millions of dollars into
Australian industry on an ever rising
scale, the managing director of Aus-
tralian Factors Ltd believes, after an
overseas tour. He said they can obtain
interest rates on secure investments
more than double those ruling in the
US.
• Reconstruction of Tennyson Textile’s
capital brings a return of Is. 6d. a ss.
share to shareholders after June 11.
• Victoria’s leading demolisher, Whelan
the Wrecker Pty Ltd, has moved
successfully into NSW, in six months
gaining nine out of 11 contracts it
sought. An Enfield (Sydney) storage and
selling site will be developed with special
attention to “beautification and order-
liness”.
® Importer, exporter and distributor
Gollin Holdings Ltd does not see any
substantial improvement in business
conditions, “despite optimistic statements
to the contrary”. Interim dividend is
steady at 4 p.c., adequately covered.
• United Discount Co. of Aust. Pty Ltd,
short-term money market offshoot of
Australian United Corporation, has been
converted to a public company. Issued
capital stands at £550,000 in partly
paid 20s. shares. No separate public
issue is contemplated.
• Lend Lease Corporation Ltd has
ventured upon another off-market place-
ment 200,000 ss. shares at 15s.
premium, to finance acquisition of long-
term income-producing assets. At the
time of the placement, market prices
were around 225.
• Wells National Industries Pty Ltd has
been formed as a merger between Robert
Wells and Co. Pty Ltd and National of
California Pty Ltd, both large Venetian
blind and aluminium awning makers.
The new company becomes Australia’s
largest manufacturer of the Hunter
Douglas “Luxaflex” range and plans
public flotation.
• Manufacturing jeweller Angus and
Coote (Holdings) Ltd lifted profit in the
half-year to January 31, 1962, “in spite
of continuing difficult conditions”.
• Radio and television manufacturer
Pye Industries Ltd appears on the way
to recovery from last year’s profit slide.
Though the parent suffered a loss in the
six months to March, 1962, all main
subsidiaries operated profitably.
• Sydney investment company White-
field Ltd has sold some of its holdings to
allow reinvestment.
• International shipping cruises pon-
derously through the troughs: Cunard
Steamship Co. lost £A2,160,000 last
year and will not pay a dividend.
• Holden dealer John A. Gilbert Hold-
ings Ltd faces uneasy trading, yet the
1961-62 profit, though below the
previous year, should cover the 15 p.c.
dividend more than twice.
• Three sugar companies Fairymead,
Pioneer, and Gibson and Howes
unanimously forecast good prospects for
the industry.
• The India Reinsurance Corporation
Ltd, a consortium of many insurance
companies operating in India, will extend
activities to Australia. A local company
has been registered.
• Cigarette maker Godfrey Phillips Ltd
earned in 1961 its best profit for seven
years and recorded slightly better sales
of the Viscount brand.
• Besley and Pike Holdings Ltd, Queens-
land envelope maker and printer, has
cut dividend from 12} to 5 p.c.
• Glen Iris Brick Holdings Ltd, Mel-
bourne,. expects its continued trading
improvement to lead to high - profit
trading. The new Templestowe plant
should assist this.
• We were misinformed in writing that
the Commercial Bank of Australia was
to begin its savings bank operations last
Monday. The Commercial Savings Bank
of Australia opens on July 2.
• The C. O. D. Cannery board of
management warns Queensland pine-
apple growers against another planting
boom, which could depress prices of
cannery fruit to unpayable levels. The
industry finds it difficult to compete with
low-cost countries such as Malaya, South
Africa and Formosa.
• The previously foreshadowed deben-
ture issue of Latec Investments Ltd is
for £150,000, to be sought privately
from shareholders. Funds are needed for
motel and land projects.
• Financier Motor Credits Ltd has taken
a 50 p.c. share interest in the Convair
Corporation group and proposes future
public listing for the group. Convair
comprises Lux Foundry Pty Ltd, Pearce
Bros Ltd (Port Adelaide bulk carrier),
and Craig and Seeley Ltd (marketers for
Lux).
• Asbestos cement pipes and conduits
made by Wunderlich Humes Asbestos
Pipes Pty Ltd are to be marketed within
Australia by Humes Ltd.
• Venetian blind maker Hunter Douglas
Ltd opened and closed its note issue on
the one day, fully subscribed. The
£500,000 issue carries 8 p.c. interest.
LETTER TO THE FINANCE EDITOR
Coffs Harbour Rutile
Sir,
Further to the article relating to Coffs
Harbor Rutile (Bulletin, May 26) there
are several small matters which I would
like to clarify. The main area of the
company’s original leases at Coifs Harbor
were not worked out. The rutile is still
present in the ground. The existence of
rutile at the Newcastle areas was not
known at the time the company was
formed.
The Coifs Harbor areas still contain
large tonnages of rutile, but the economic
factors involved in its extraction are such
that profitability could not be expected
at the price existing in the past few years,
or, for that matter, at present existing.
Two matters arise from this. Firstly,
the areas here and further north contain
about 20 p.c. rutile in the heavy mineral,
whereas the Newcastle areas contain 50
p.c. rutile in the heavy mineral. The
second factor is the question of cartage to
seaport. The freight from Coffs Works
FOB Sydney amounted to £7 per ton,
whereas the present freight ex works
Newcastle is less than £1 per ton.
Futile is an oxide of titanium and is
expressed as Tio2. The material is used
in the manufacture of titanium metal and
is further used, after acid treatment, as
titanium dioxide for paint and paper
manufacture.
Australia exports about 100,000 tons
of rutile, of which some 80,000 tons is
consumed in the welding rod industry.
The latter has always been the principal
application of rutile. About 8000 tons is
presently consumed in the metal industry
and the balance, which was a surplus,
will now be taken up in the manufacture
of high grade pigments.
The constant rise in rutile prices after
1956 was brought about due to a forecast
demand for titanium metal and the rush
by American groups to secure supplies
of rutile material for defence projects.
This caused a shortage in the welding rod
electrode industry. The metal firms
bought on long term contracts, whereas
the welding rod people had been accus-
tomed to purchase on a quarter to quarter
basis. The influx of the metal producers
into the market took the welding rod
consumers somewhat by surprise and they
were forced to obtain supplies at much
higher prices. At the same time, some of
the late-comers into the metal field also
entered into relatively long term con-
tracts at £6O per ton and upwards. These
contracts have either been commutead or
fulfilled in the main.
N. G. Green
Chairman.
Sydney


LEADING
SHARE
PRICES
p r -
Last
1 „
Div.
Div.
Earn.
Earn.
Par
Sale,
Rate
Yield
Rate
Yield
Company
Value
1961
28/5/62
1/6/62
p.c.
p.c.
p.c.
p.c.
Amalgamated Chemicals
5/
14/3
19/
18/6
121/2
3.4
21.4
5.8
A.W.A
. 5/
20/4%
21/3
21/
14
3.3
22
5.2
Ampol
5/
11/4
12/5
12/
14
5.8
19
7.9
A.R.G. .. ,.
10/
46/3
50/9
49/
15
3.1
29.7
6.1
Associated Pulp
20/
29/3
29/6
30/
—
—
13.6
9.1
Aust. Chemicals
10/
30/41/a
28/
27/
I2V2
4.6
21.5
8.0
A.C.I
20/
72/6
72/
70/6
8-1/3
2.4
19.3
7.2
Aust. Guarantee
5/
14/
12/8
12/8
15
5.9
20.3
8.0
Aust. Gypsum ..
5/
14/3
16/
15/9
10
3.2
14.9
4.7
A.P.M.
20/
25/3
28/4
29/
8
5.5
10
6.9
Bank N.S.W.
£20
£34
£42-7/8
£42i/4
9
4.3
12.2
5.8
Bitumen and Oil
5/
24/
25/5
25/3
171/2
3.5
32.4
7.1
Blue Metal Ind.
5/
22/71/2
23/10
23/6
15
3.2
27.6
6.0
Bradford Cotton
5/
7/6
7/
7/1
10
7.1
11.2
7.8
British Tobacco
20/
25/
21/10
23/
8
6.9
9.7
8.4
B.H.P.
20/
69/
61/
60/3
61/4
2.1
15.5
6.4
Burns Philp .,
20/
91/
£5/13/
£5/10/
10
1.8
12.4
2.2
C.S.R
£20
£591/2
£55/10/
£55%
9
3.1
12.4
4.3
C.A.G.A. .. ,.
5/
11/3
11/4B
11/4
10
4.4
12.3
5.4
C.I.G
20/
£5
99/
94/3t
11
2.2
25.2
5.1
Commercial Union
5/
19/3
24/4
24/11/2
6 1/2
1.4
18.4
3.9
Concrete Ind. ..
5/
15/11/2
15/8
15/3
10
4.4
12.3
5.4
Consolidated Zinc
25/
62/6
64/
63/
15
6.0
11.6
4.6
Cox Bros
5/
7/6
7/8
7/6
10
6.6
11.8
8.2
Custom Credit ..
5/
13/
11/5
12/
15
6.3
19.5
8.2
Cyclone
5/
26/
20/9
20/8V 2
10
4.8
17.7
8.5
Dalgety-N.Z. Loan
25/
42/3
41/71,4 f
8
4.9
13.9
8.2
David Jones
5/
18/9
18/5
18/3
121/2
3.4
28.7
6.6
Drug Houses
20/
69/
70/ B
69/
11V4
3.3
17.7
5.2
Dunlop Rubber
20/
35/
41/11/2
40/
10
5.0
16
8.0
Elder Smith
12/
23/9
25/9
25/
10
4.8
12.6
6.0
Electronic “B”
10/
13/3
14/9
15/41/2
121/2
8.4
—
—
Email
5/
7/6
8 / 2
7/11
10
6.3
11
5.9
E.Z. Ind.
5/
12/11
13/
13/
10
7.7
12.4
9.6
Pelt and Textiles
5/
6/11
7/9
7/6
10
6.7
13.9
9.4
G. J. Coles
5/
13/6
12/11
13/1
11
4.2
14.8
5.6
Goldsbrough
20/
28/6
32/li/>
31/10'/ 2
8
5.0
12.6
7.7
H. C. Sleigh ..
5/
11/
12/10
12/6
121/2
5.0
13.4
5.3
Henry Jones ..
20/
80/
88/3
88/
10
2.2
28.6
6.5
H. G. Palmer .,
5/
15 6
18/3
17/8
121/2
3.5
13.5
9.4
Howard Smith ..
20/
54/
49/6
50/
10
4.0
13.6
5.4
Humes
20/
70/6
75/9B
76/
14
3.6
24.6
6.5
I.A.C.
5/
13/4
13/11/2
13/3
16-2/3
6.3
20.6
7.7
I.C.I.A.N.Z.
20/
38/
40/41/2
41/6
7
3.3
9.7
4.1
J. Gadsden
10/
15/3
19/
18/6
8
4.3
10.4
5.6
Kandos Cement
5/
22/6
22/3
121/2
2.8
13.5
3.0
Kelvinator
5/
18/3
19/8
19/9
15
3.8
28.6
7.3
Lend Lease
5/
20/
22/6
21/6
10
2.3
21.4
4.9
L. J. Hooker .
5/
7/
5/7
5/3
1.1*
1.0
Mercantile Credits
5/
8/8
8/71/2
8/7
10
5.8
16.6
9.7
McPhersons
20/
47/
42/71/2
42/
8-1/3
3.9
12.4
5.3
Minster ..
10/
62/
78/9
78/
20
2.5
34.8
4.7
Moulded Products
5/
13/2
14/9
14/3
14
4.8
7.8
9.1
Mt. Isa Mines ..
5/
71/6
74/
73/9
25
1.7
62.3
4.3
Mutual Acceptance
5/
8/10
10/1
10/1
15
7.5
22.3
11.0
5/
29/
33/6
31/9
16-2/3
2.6
28.3
4.6
national Consolidated
5/
27/
27/6
26/7
20
3.7
35.3
6.6
uiympic Industries
5/
7/7
9/5
9/5
9
4.7
16.2
9.5
Peters (Vic.) ..
2/
8/6
7/10
7/11
15
3.7
18.9
4.9
Petrochemical ..
20/
26/
29/9B
29/9
6
4.0
5.9
3.9
R. M. Concrete
5/
17/41/2
17/11
17/9
I2V2
3.5
22.9
6.4
Reid Murray
Repco
Rio Tinto
Rothmans
Thiess .. ..
Tooth .. ..
Union Carbide
Waltons
Woolworths
Wormald
W. R. Carpenter
5/
5/3
4/
3/111/2
—
9.4
12.4
5/
12/5
14/5
14/
10
3.5
17.8
6.4
5/
20/
5/
15/9
87/6
13/
20/
75/
11/9
20/
73/
11/
10
171/2
121/2
2.5
4.8
5.6
17.7
47.7
14.4
18.9
13.1
4.7
20/
20/
5/
5/
5/
5/
60/
80/
13/8
15/4
11/10
30/
67/3
77/
14/
16/5
12/2
35/
67/
70/
13/11
16/3
12/
34/6
131/2
10
121/2
12
10
15
3.9
2.8
4.5
3.6
4.1
2.1
15.9
15.9
19.7
15.4
14.2
35.1
4.8
4.5
7.1
4.7
6.5
5.3
Estimated on last half-year’s profit.
b Buyer,
t Mid-price.
SYDNEY
STOCK EXCHANGE
INDICES
December
May 28,
May 29,
May 30,
May 31,
June 1,
22, 1961
1962 ..
1962
1962 ..
1962 ..
1962 ..
Banks, Other
etc. Finance
.. 137.37 541.02
.. 166.38 561.95
.. 166.78 557.62
.. 164.83 542.17
.. 165.11 563.10
.. 165.92 568.34
* Peak 348.46
Pastoral
182.31
186.52
185.10
181.45
181.93
181.80
September 16,
Retailers
389.15
383.08
377.60
376.58
380.20
381.57
1960.
Base
Metals
604.15
604.15
593.62
577.41
581.28
589.94
All
Ords. *
299 07
299107
302.91
299.09
301.06
302.63
Industrials
318.74
318.74
318.06
313.77
315.37
317.12
MELBOURNE STOCK EXCHANGE
AVERAGE YIELD ON 100 ORDINARY SHARES
r r-50 Other
Stocks—Random—.
December
May 28,
May 29,
May 30,
May 31,
June 1,
22, 1961
1962 ..
1962
1962 ..
1962 ..
1962 ,.
Div. Yield Earn. Yield
•• •• •• .» 4.26 6.13
4.33 6.29
sample
Div. Yield Earn. Yield
5.30 7.46
5.10 1.89
5.12 2.11
5.14 2.01
5.13 1.97
5.15 2.00
SHAREMARKET SUMMARY
TlThen this previous commentary was
written early last week, it appeared
that, stock against stock, the local
markets had attained to a reasonably
firm and moderately stable technical
position. Wherever a drift showed, and
a drift there certainly was in mild
measure, pointed to a lingering scepticism
on the speed of Australia’s economic
progress. Overmuch sympathy with the
fluctuations of foreign exchanges did not
express itself too strikingly.
In the middle of the week this
tenderness arrived in full flush. An
excessive sympathy throughout a fever
may prove bad medicine. So it must
now seem to many investors. Their
behaviour, as well as that of many of
their financial advisers, looked irrespons-
ible and unnecessary.
Australian sharemarkets went back to
accord with Wall Street’s and London’s
sudden slides, the facts and prices
patently exhibit. When the overseas
tantrums were equally dramatically re-
versed, our health started to improve,
only more slowly. The question has to
be asked whether the relapse was either
justified or wise.
Whatever the explanation of New
York in particular, political distaste or
company trends, the Tuesday-Wednesday
debacle assuredly corrected itself with
great haste. But this specific situation
has been heavily discounted here before.
It remains especially interesting to
recall, in view of the immediate reactions,
that many of the overseas exchanges
have been unsteady and in retreat for
quite a long time. This condition ruled
in Europe as well as in America. Not a
few analysts were puzzled at the con-
tinued lack of advance when so many of
the economic indicators stood fair.
Belated discovery and probable over-
compensation spread on all Australian
markets. Mixed with purely domestic
uncertainties, which have increased a
little just recently, the return will not
be swift or easy. Indeed some prices are
even now lower than the overall
“recovery” pattern because of profit-
taking permitted by reduced price-levels.
The backwards gallop hit all main
investment sections equally. No leader
was solid enough to order the field. Even
the great B.H.P. found itself in the
middle of debenture doubts and at one
stage sank as low as 58s.
A mostly calm and evenly spread
improvement seems now in train. Few
stocks could show much betterment
under these conditions and the old round
of extreme selection of good industrials
will manifestly restore the picture as
before. It may be hoped, in this prob-
lematical period of the year, that foreign
hesitations be not unduly effective again


DIVIDEND DECLARATIONS
WEEK ENDED JUNE 4, 1963
Rate for
Company Div. p.c. Year Last Year
Books
Close
Payable
Angus and Coote (Holdings) Ltd, int.
3
—
3, 3
14/6/62
27/6/62
Anthony Hordern and Sons Ltd, int.
pref.
3%
3%, 3%
14/6/62
22/6/62
British Tobacco Co. (Aust.) Ltd, int.
qtr ..
2i/a
2, 2, 2, 1, 1
15/6/62
13/7/62
Crestknit Industries Ltd, final pref.
3
6
3, 4
27/6/62
30/6/62
Electronic Industries Ltd, final 6’/a
p.c. pref. . .
31/4
6'/a
31/4, 31/4
14/6, 62
30/6/62
Electronic Industries Ltd, final 6 p.c.
pref.
3
6
3, 3
14/6/62
30/6/62
Email Ltd, int. pref.
3
—
3, 3
30/6/62
2/7/62
Equitable Permanent Building Society
Ltd, final .
7
14
7, 7
11/6/62
30/6/62
Geo. Fielder and Co. Ltd, int.
4
—
31/2, —
29/6/62
31/7/62
Geoff. K. Gray ((Hldgs.) Ltd, int. .
7 %
—
6 1/4, 61/4
15/6/62
22 6/62
Gollin Holdings Ltd, int.
4
—
4, 4
14/6/62
30/6/62
Isas (NSW) Ltd, year ..
5
5
10
21/6/62
27/6/62 .
James Hardie Asbestos Ltd. final
5
10
5, 5
18/6/62
28/6 62
Johnson Leather Co. Ltd, final pref.
2i/a
—
2 1/2, 21/2
14/6/62
29/6/62
LNC Industries Ltd, final pref.
2'/ 2
—
2’/2, 21/ 2
14/6/62
22/6/62
Prestige Ltd, final
71/2
10
2V2, 7'/2
'
Pyrox Ltd, final pref. ..
2i/a
5
2V2, 21/2
24/6/62
29/6/62
Sulphates Ltd. final pref.
2%
5'/ z
2%, 2%
15/6/62
30/6/62
Shipping Newspapers (Vic.) Ltd, int,
qtr. pref.
21/4
— 2
A, 21/4,21/4,2.1/4
22/6 62 '
30/6/62
Woolworths (NZ) Ltd, int.
5
—
5, 7
15/6/62
31/7/62
Wool worths Properties Ltd, final pref.
3
6
3, 3
15/6/62
16/7/62
Wright Heaton and Co. Ltd, int. ..
71/2
—
71/2, 71/2 •
22/6 62
30/6/62
COMPANY
RESULTS
Company
Year
/ —Ordinary Shares —..
Ended
Profit
Tax
Deprecia-
Earning
Ord.
Par Last Sale Div.
£
£
tion
Rate
Div
Value Price Yield
£
p.c
p.c.
p.c.
A.C F. and Shirley’s
Fertilisers
28/2/62
131.964
158.728
126,674
16.2
81/2
not listed
Choiseul Plantations
30/11/61
97,293
94,747*
' nil
64.8
40
20/ £ 10 4.0
Gordon and Gotch ..
31/3/62
450,753
339.922
85,446
31
18/1-3
5/ 17/9 5.3
James Hardie Abestos
31/3/62
610,246
n/a
n/a
18.3
10
20/ 97/6 2.0
Prestige
31/3/62
166,588
n/a
n/a
16.7
10
5/ 7/3 6.9
* Provisions including tax.
SYDNEY
Month
GREASY WOOI
WEE
Basis Greasy Equivaler
,——June 1 N
Closing
Seller Buyer
- FUTURES
K ENDING JUNE I,
t 3,000 lbs. Clean \
EXCH>
1962
/eight C.W.C
west Price P
per lb.)
, To
High
U4GE
. Type 78.
SUMMARY
r Turnover
Week
Ended To
1/6/62 Date
(Pence
Week Ended—
1/6/62
High Low
Date
Low
July, 1962
11514
Traded
1151/4
1131/2
116%
101
143
5,845
September, 1962
111%
III1/2
111%
110%
116%
103%
44
1,777
October, 1962
1091/2
109'/4
109%
108%
116%
104
120
5,030
December, 1962
1031/2
108%
1081/2
107%
113
103%
141
3.727
January, 1963
108 V4
108
108
107%
112%
103%
16
610
March, 1963
107%
107%
108
1071/4
110%
J 04
97
1,103
May, 1963
108
107%
108
1071/4
110
104
52
876
July, 1963
103
1071/a
108
107%
110
105
65
641
September, 1963
107%
107V4
1071/2
107
109%
106%
7
65
October, 1963
1071/2
107
1071/2
107
109%
106'/a
20
313
December, 1963
1071/4
106%
107
107
107
107
3
3
TOTAL
NUMBER OF CONTRACTS
" 708
64.432
May, 1962:
Total
= 3,348
Daily Average
= 145
Market Average
= 124
WEEKLY
AVERAGE CLEAN WOOL PRICES
Source: Australian Wool
Bureau
Quality
Opening
Closing
Centres Seiiine
Classification
Week
Week
Week
Week
Week
Week
(Bradford
Ended
Ended
1961-62
1960-61
Ended
1/6/62
Standard)
1/6/62
Change
25/5/62
7/7/61
30/6/61
2/6/61
Syd.
G’lng.
d.
d.
d.
d.
d.
d.
d.
d
COMBING—
70’s Good
132
+ 1
131
122*
125*
126*
132
Average
127
par
127
1-17
120
121
127
127
64’s Good
124
+1
123
114*
117*
118
123
125
Average
118
par
118
109
112
114
117
119
60’s Good
109
+1
108
104
108*
110
109
Average
103
par
103
101
104
107
103
104
58’s Good
97
par
97
97
101*
102
97
Average
94
par
94
95
98
98
93
94
56’s Good
93
+i
92
95*
97*
98
93
Average
91
+1
90
92*
94
94
91
90
50 s Good
83
par
83
92*
93*
93
S3
Average
80
par
80
90*
91*
90
CARDING—
Merino
47
+1
46
49
48
50
47
Comeback
43
par
43
49
48
49
43
Fine Xbred.
45
+2
43
51*
51
50
47
Med. Xbred.
46
+2
44
52*
52
51
47
* Nominal.
Next Circular will be for week ending
I5th June
1962, covering sales
at Adelaide and Albury.
LONDON
EXCHANGE
RATES (T/T)
ITALY
£A to £ stg 100 ..
.. 125
Lire to £ A 1
1403
NEW ZEALAND
JAPAN
£ A to £NZ 100
U.S.A.
124
Yen to £ A 1 .. ..
WEST GERMANY
$ 1 to £ A 1
.. 2.2498
DM to £ A 1
.. 9 021
BtLCilUM
SWITZERLAND
Francs to £ A 1 ..
Francs to £A 1 ..
FRANCE
HONG KONG
New francs to £A 1 ..
.. 11.064
Pence Australian to $HK
. . 18 9/16
A. L. NEVITT. DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT. A. C. DRAPER.
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members ot Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O. BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
2 Denham Street, Phone 6089
PATRICK & COMPANY
[Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
Delfin House,
16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building,
150 Queen St., Melbourne
67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables:
“Rosdale”, Sydney, Melbourne
or Wollongong.
John N. Robertson, Thompson
and Co.
Members of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
423 Little Collins Street
Melbourne, C.l.
Telephones: 67-6154, 67-6155
Telegrams and Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Sixth Floor,
56 Hunter Street, Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Telephone: BW 5721.
Telegrams and Cables:
“LAGRAIM,” Sydney.
CONSTABLE & COMPANY
BW 0781
Member of the
SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE
25 O’Connell Street,
SYDNEY
The Mall, The Corso, Manly
Telephone: 97-5867
CC.S.


CARRY THE
RURDEN
Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
N.S. W. Branch:
Kindersley House,
Bligh - O’Connell Sts., Sydney
STOCK OPTIONS
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
Suite 1, Sixth Floor, Temple Court
422 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Phone 67-8011
BRANCH OFFICES
Sydney: 383 George Street, 29-7865.
Adelaide: 61 Gawler Place, 7-8407.
Brisbane: 334 Queen Street, 31-1621.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
All Offices: “Options”
Write or Phone for Free Brochure
and Current Price Schedule.
FOR CALL OPTIONS
CALL STOCK OPTIONS
m
oil the year round. Donations.- 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM 2001.
SPECULATORS DIARY
VTews of a nice little coup filtered
through during the week. British
millionaire Paul Getty reputedly added
to his £ssim. fortune by way of “Black
Monday” on Wall Street last week in a
deal all red-blooded speculators will ap-
plaud. Operating by telephone across the
Atlantic, he snapped up a trifling 40,000
Standard Oil at bottom late in the day, and
sat back next evening with a million
dollars or so in paper profits when the
Wall Street see-saw tipped the other way.
Price movements, after all, are the life-
blood of the speculator, so who am I to
complain if the movement is downwards.
All the same, why Stock Exchanges
around the world should wait, cap in
hand, on Wall Street at such a time is
beyond me. The Yankee analysts could
not even give a solid reason for the
slump, but came up with a batch of chest-
nuts.
Whatever the cause, during Sydney’s
Wednesday version of Wall Street’s
“Black Monday”, I unknowingly emula-
ted Mr Millionaire Getty in my own in-
significant way. Operating by telephone
across the City of Sydney late in the day
I was able to buy a couple of my fancies.
With my first buy, National Consolida-
ted, I was unfortunate enough to miss the
bottom price of 265. by a whole Id. With
the current renaissance of the motor in-
dustry the National Consolidated group
could well rise to heights above its pre-
-1960 bust splendor. Quite apart from its
dominant position in the radiator, bearings
and air conditioning coil businesses, the
Perry hardware subsidiary gives it a large
stake in the fast-recovering building indus-
try, which was reinforced by the recent
takeover of R.M.S. Pty Ltd, shopfitters.
However, the latest takeover of
Murfett Holdings Ltd —takes the card.
My other purchase, much to my
broker’s surprise, was little-known Dis-
count Facilities. The ss. shares had made
a promising run from ss. 6d. before Wed-
nesday’s setback stopped them at 6s. 3d.
The company is one of the rash of factor-
ing groups that have sprung up lately,
supposedly marking the growing sophisti-
cation of our money market. The point is
that six-months-old Discount Facilities
enjoys a much lower market premium
than even the month-old offshoots of Aus-
tralian Factors in Queensland and Vic-
toria. The shares looked good for a rise
of a shilling or so, so I ordered 800 and
got them at ss. 9d.
Bought
300 National Consol, at 26/1 £399
800 Discount Facilities at 5/9 £239
This left me owing my long-suffering
(and prospering) broker £560 as it just
wasn’t a week for selling. Something will
have to go this week from my portfolio
of:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
400 O’Donnell Grif-
Griffin 28/8/61 11/8 16/9
1,600 United Motels 20/11/61 3/9 4/-
1,000 Harris Holding 5/12/61 7/- 8/-
200 Hunter Douglas
notes 21/2/62 36/- 44/-
200 Beau Monde 8/12/61 25/- 32/6
400 W. J. Manufac-
turing 24/1/62 11/9 12/9
400 Auto and Gen-
eral Finance 8/2/62 19/9 23/-
500 Mauri Bros 16/2/62 22/9 24/2
400 Anderson Meat 2/3/62 12/- 12/6
100 Philip Morris 16/3/62 26/- 25/-
800 Goodwins 21/3/62 5/9 6/6
500 Peter Lloyd 21/3/62 5/6 5/7
500 Ready Mixed 6/4/62 17/9 17/9
25 MLC 27/4/62 £l9/10/- £23y 2
200 Malleys 3/5/62 20/3 22/9
500 Merica 10/5/62 7/- 7/6
400 GUD 8/5/62 23/- 25/6
400 Swan Brewery 17/5/62 19/6 19/-
25 Choiseul 24/5/62 £ll £ll
1,000 Hanimex 23/5/62 4/11 5/3
300 National Consol. 30/5/62 26/1 26/7
800 Discount Facilit. 30/5/62 5/9 6/-
ONE TO BUY
11/'ith the pattern of equity interests
* allegedly changing, and last week’s
market goings-on a salutory portent, the
methods of sharp company scrutiny
seem set for revival. Investors may not
too hopefully glamorise or overplay the
future. On the other hand, a safe stolidity
must not discount all calculation and
optimism
A pleasantly happy medium, standing
up well to most tests, is suggested by
Sydney production engineer H. Pettiford
Holdings Ltd. Ruling prices do not quite
indicate a just esteem of the company’s
possibilities and may move higher when
the searching tendency begins. The 20s.
shares, on a 10 p.c. dividend, stand
around 325. 9d. to yield 6.1 p.c. and
show an earnings yield at 10.3 p.c.
Only listed since 1958, Pettiford gave
full evidence of expansive capacity and
most favorable profits. Indeed 1960
produced a doubling of earning rate, to
36 p.c., since public status was achieved.
The squeeze retreat cut earning rate
back to about 17 p.c., a reasonably fair
effort. Now the forward march can once
more be started, though the market has
displayed a measure of scepticism about
the speedy absorption of recent takeovers
—W. H. Hole and Wing Industries.
Turnovers are moving up favorably
and orders allow full production far into
the current year. Both of the latest take-
overs give rise to good reports, with
W. H. Hole especially restored to profit-
ability. Disposal of the old factory has
lifted liquids to their high and
traditional health.


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
DAIRY PRODUCE
BIG GAMBLE IN S.E. ASIA
d \NLY time will test the wisdom of the
" Australian Dairy Produce Board’s
new venture in South-East Asia a
link with the Malayan-Chinese politician-
millionaire, Mr Leong Kwai Chun, in the
establishment of a chain of reconstituted
milk plants there.
The move caused little surprise, since
rumors of it had been current in Mel-
bourne, Singapore und Kuala Lumpur for
several months. Some of the rumors
were remarkably accurate and leaks of
confidential information from Dairy
Board meetings are being blamed.
Even a strong rumor that the Board
would pay Mr Leong <£50,000 to switch
his allegiance from the giant American
Beatrice Foods group to Australia
proved close; the Dairy Board is calling
the payment Mr Leong’s fee for helping
to organise and run the big new project.
There has been no confirmation or
denial of another rumor that Mr
Leong previously approached New Zea-
land with a similar proposition, but was
turned down.
The wiL Chinese gentleman will not
do too badly out of the Australian deal
anyway. Under the agreement approved
by the Board he will get half of the
profits from Asia Development Company
Ltd—the company to be formed on a
50-50 basis by the Board and Mr Leong.
That is in addition to the £50,000, of
course.
Mr Leong, a former high official in
the Chinese Nationalist Government, is
now president of the Malayan Alliance
Association one of the three groups
forming Malaya’s governing Alliance
Party. He has an intimate knowledge of
South-east Asia and its politicians ... a
knowledge likely to win for Australia a
bigger share of Asian dairy product sales
than could otherwise have been expected.
Briefly, Mr Leong will negotiate the
establishment for the Asia Development
Company of reconstituted milk plants in
countries such as Thailand, Malaya, the
Philippines and Burma. These plants will
recombine Australian butter oil and skim
milk powder into condensed milk, eva-
porated milk, liquid milk or ice cream.
At least four plants are envisaged
at a cost to the Australian dairy industry
of something over £ 1 i. The Dairy
Board will provide the machinery for the
plants under hire purchase agreements.
It will also put up some of the capital
in association with Leong and local
interests and will arrange the supply of
the raw materials. The plants will form
a virtually guaranteed market (political
upheavals permitting) for Australian
dairy -products.
Four plants would use in skim milk
powder and butter oil the equivalent of
about 8000 tons of butter a year. If these
dairy products had been made into butter
they would have had to be sold at a
heavy loss on highly-competitive markets.
A ccording to reports from Malaya and
Australia and Mi Leong
hope to open their first sweetened con-
densed milk plant in Thailand within a
year.
It is being claimed that several very
high Thai officials will accept posts on
the board of the company operating this
plant and that the company is very likely
to be granted pioneer status. This will
protect the company’s market, and give it
exemption from import duty and taxes
for a period of about five years.
The Australia-Leong-Thai plant is
being tipped to get pioneer status ahead
of strong applications from some of the
world’s biggest food firms. If this hap-
pens the Dairy Board will have Mr
Leong to thank.
The whole Dairy Board scheme is ex-
pected to raise a storm of opposition
from Australia’s private dairy product
.raders, who formerly handled virtually all
export business except to the UK. Now
they will have the Dairy Board trading
in competition with them. But in chang-
ing its policy in this regard the Dairy
Board is merely falling into line with
modern practice.
New Zealand, for example, which al-
ready has reconstitution plants operating
in Asia and more planned, has i Dairying
Commission which trades direct with
buyer-countries.
The Australian Board’s idea, of course,
is to help offset some of the heavy losses
looming when Britain enters the Com-
mon Market. And, more immediately, to
use up some of the huge quantity of
Australian dairy products displaced from
Britain by the recently-imposed British
butter quotas.
Some dairy traders perhaps with a
touch of sour grapes are warning that
the board could get its fingers burned in
its new Asian operations. They claim
nobody on the board know's much about
Asian trading an area with vastly
different business methods from those of
Britain or Australia.
Basically, however, Australia had no
choice but to enter this or some similar
venture. Other countries have been
moving into Asia for a year or more in
anticipation of the loss of European
dairy products markets. Australia has
already lagged well behind and she must
now move rapidly if she is not to find
herself left out in the cold.
WOOL
APARTHEID HERE, TOO?
Ts South Africa’s apartheid policy
proving an embarrassment to the
Australia-dominated three-nation Inter-
national Wool Secretariat? Secretariat
officials and board members have shown
a marked reluctance to discuss this
question in recent weeks.
The chairman of the South African
Wool Board, former Transvaal vet. Dr
J. G. van der Wath, was evasive when
asked the question directly after the
IWS annual meeting in Melbourne.
And weight was given the rumors by the
guarded nature of IWS statements on a
proposed mutual-aid agreement with
India, whereby India would admit more
Australian and New Zealand wool in
return lor technical assistance. No
mention was made of wool from the
third Secretariat member, South Africa.
Rumor has it that the IWS chairman,
Sir William Gunn, and managing direc-
tor, Mr W. J. Vines, got broad hints
while in India that South African wool
would not be welcome. While this, if
true, may not have any direct impact
immediately on the IWS (which pro-
motes wool as wool, not the wool of
individual member countries) it could
prove embarrassing in the future.
Difficulties are not hard to see if other
potential Asian customers take a similar
attitude. If this happened Australia’s
IWS link with South Africa could prove
a liability.


DAIRYING
DANGER OF PENICILLIN IN MILK
/'|nce upon a time milk was regarded
as the one safe food . . . from the
cradle to the grave. But in this age of
science it seems that the ancient “bone-
builder” could well shorten the distance
between the two!
First there were reports that milk
or a portion of it caused heart disease
and greatly shortened life expectancy.
Millions of Americans gave up drink-
ing milk or switched to skim milk.
Some Australians followed suit. Medical
opinion varied widely on the accuracy of
the indictment and the verdict, at worst,
was “not proven”.
Then came atomic testing . . . and
claims that milk could become radio-
active if cows fed on pastures polluted
with deadly radioactive Strontium 90.
Few Australians took this seriously. But
many people are viewing with anxiety
claims that a significant portion of Aus-
tralia’s miik is being contaminated with
small amounts of the one-time “wonder
drug” penicillin.
The claims are not new nor is
the contamination. Penicillin has been
used by Australian dairy farmers to treat
mastitis a disease of cows’ udders
for about 20 years. In recent years its
use has increased greatly probably be-
cause of greater appreciation of the econ-
omic losses caused by mastitis (variously
estimated at from £lO million to £2O
million).
The drug became freely available to
dairy farmers in prepared doses and while
some veterinarians claimed after tests that
25,000 units was the biggest dose needed
(and most authorities agreed that 100,000
units was the biggest which should ever
be given) farmers began using doses as
large as 1,500,000 units in the '-ope of
swift cures. And the cures came.
Penicillin while not the only anti-
biotic effective against mastitis is by
far the cheapest. Even today other anti-
biotics are used as a rule only when
the mastitis organisms have become resis-
tant to penicillin. Today penicillin is used
in varying quantities on almost every
Australian dairy farm.
It is not known precisely when it
was realised that penicillin could be
a mixed blessing . . . but it was cer-
tainly many years ago. This was when
the bacteria used in cheese-making be-
gan to succumb to the traces of the
“wonder drug” in milk from farms with
mastitis-infected cows.
Most State Departments of Agricul-
ture had long urged farmers not to send
to milk depots or dairy factories milk
from cows freshly treated with penicillin.
They suggested the milk should be dis-
carded or fed to calves for at least
three days after the treatment. By this
time all penicillin should have been
flushed out of the cow’s udder.
This did not solve the problem, how-
ever. A small proportion of careless or
lazy farmers continued to sell milk con-
taminated with penicillin and cheese fac-
tories continued to complain.
This was the position when ex-CSIRO
scientist Dr Dan Murnane, now with
ICIANZ, rose at the annual conference
of the Australian Veterinary Association
and began the present controversy by at-
tacking the unrestricted used of antibiot-
ics by dairy farmers. Dr Murnane, while
outspoken, was mild in his comments
compared with some experts in recent
years but his remarks caught the head-
lines.
Doctors, scientists, university profes-
sors a score or more of them put
before the general public for the first
time the fears and anxieties long held by
a small group o f experts. They pointed
out that penicillin residues in milk al-
though in extremely minute quantities—
could have three possible bad effects on
public health. These were:
® They could cause allergic reactions
(ranging all the way up from mild al-
lergy rashes to sudden death) in the small
proportion of the population hyper-sen-
sitive to the drug.
• They could cause people not already
sensitive to penicillin to become sensi-
tive. This could be an extreme disad-
vantage, even a danger, if a doctor want-
ed to use penicillin later to treat that
person for an infectious disease.
® They encouraged the growth in the
human body of penicillin-resistant organ-
isms.
With surprising unanimity the dairy
industry, staggered by the loss of sales
likely through so much adverse publicity
at such a crucial time doctors, scien-
tists, veterinarians and health officers
agreed on the existence of the problem,
its seriousness and that something had
to be done about it.
The Agricultural Council made up
of State and Federal Agricultural Minis-
ters has already discussed the proposed
use of a tracer dye developed by Vic-
torian scientists. This dye, added to peni-
cillin, would turn contaminated milk blue.
Unfortunately the National Health
and Medical Research Council has its
doubts about the safety of the dye (al-
though it is an approved food dye) and
has delayed its approval following further
testing.
But dye or no dye, the writing seems
to be on the wall for the farmers who
contaminate their milk with penicillin.
In Victoria Australia’s premier
dairying State, for example recent
tests have shown from 60 per cent to
100 per cent of milk samples to contain
penicillin. This may overstress the prob-
lem, however, for penicillin contamina-
tion varies from area to area and from
season to season, spring usually being by
far the worst time.
But in America where the US
Food and Drugs Administration has gone
to extreme lengths to combat what it re-
gards as a grave problem ANY trace
of penicillin in milk is regarded as suf-
ficient reason for instant condemnation.
Australia’s problem can probably be
solved if milk depots and dairy factories
—all of which have the necessary equip-
ment —adopt the simple, cheap and ef-
ficient CSIRO test for penicillin. A check
of each farmer’s milk twice a month
would soon identify the source of any
pollution. For the first offence the farm-
er would be warned. For the second he
would face the crippling blow of can-
cellation of his milk contracts.
State milk-quality inspectors could
police the operation of the detection sys-
tem by occasional surprise spot checks on
milk leaving the depots and dairies. Some
system such as this is expected to be
recommended by the Australian Agricul-
tural Council. Until it is in force, how-
ever, it is likely that many mothers will
think twice before giving their children
a glass of milk.
RUBBER
£1.76m. TO BOOST TRADE
Malayan Rubber Fund Board has
been allotted by the Malayan
Government a sum of £1.76 million for
1962 to finance research, development
and publicity in stimulating the produc-
tion and consumption of natural rubber
throughout the world.
The Prime Minister of Malaya, Tunku
Abdul Rahman, has announced that
great studies are being made in imple-
menting a policy to reduce the cost of
rubber production, to improve quality
and to increase output. He adds that
the Government is confident that Malaya
can withstand competition and ensure
for generations to come the strong posi-
tion rubber has enjoyed in the economy
of the country and thus become a firm
economic bastion in free Asia and the
free world.
Excellent progress has been made in
planting more and more high-yield trees
which give at least four times as much
latex as the older type of tree.


REVIEWS
TELEVISION
DRAMA WITHOUT A CAUSE
Tn the years 8.T., we used to read that
classical ballet was one of the most
popular allbrow entertainments on
American television. In those early years
of mostly “live”, comedians and dancers
and singers had a monopoly on prime
time, and Milton Berle was king.
By the time our Broadcasting Control
Board had been appointed, held an ever-
lasting inquiry, and decided that the most
logical applicants should be granted
licences to broadcast, nearly everything
was on film and would soon be on tape,
and the art of shooting ballet “live”
seemed as lost as antiquity.
The ABC had a stab or two at it,
still does, but like some apprentice
magician it manages to produce a whole
body sometimes, but just as often fails
to materialise a dancer’s head, or legs,
or right or left side.
With all of this in mind I kept a hand
on the channel selector while watching
the first minute or so of the BP Super
Show with Margot Fonteyn. Vastly
ignorant about the technique and
mystique of classical ballet, 1 was ready
to settle for a curious look at Dame
Margot and a fast switch to another pro-
gramme, and imagine that in this I was
not alone. I felt that even Bob and Doll
might be with me, in Melbourne, cruis-
ing off Stradbroke Island in Tennessee
11, gaffing in the Gulf, or wherever.
I hope that you, and they, were not
too fast on the channel selector, because
all eight dancers in this BP Show were
super. It will have been televised in all
States by now, but if repeated, don’t miss.
The show was recorded at the Tivoli
Theatre in Sydney, using cameras at
stage and dress circle levels. These
fixed positions made artistic camera work
impossible, which may have been just
as well.
Despite the loss of costume and set
colors, which are much in this visual
art, some affluent friends have assured
me that the dancing could be appreci-
ated better on television than on open-
ing night. I believe them.
Except for two or three occasions
when the dancers parted and the camera
wondered which to follow, we saw every
delicate movement of the ballerinas, and
every fantastic activity of the male
dancers.
It was exciting television, and I
commend it to those concerned in the
production, if that’s the word, of The
Patriots —the ABC’s latest episode of the
Australia story, 1820 and 142 years ago.
Compared with the Page-Ashbridge
pas de deux which opened the BP Show,
the first instalment of The Patriots limped
and stumbled, in no way helped by
unimaginative lighting which allowed
good sets to create very little illusion, and
some strange method in the acting of
Stewart Ginn and Frank Taylor as
Privates Sudds and Thompson (“Not the
hand!”), and James Condon as the first
W. C. Wentworth, played as a twin
brother to Walter Sullivan’s Macarthur.
With a wealth of explosive material
to come, Phillip Grenville Mann was
satisfied to establish his characters and
set his stage for future action, in this
first episode. That would have been
valid enough if the producer, Colin
Dean, had called for some vital atmos-
phere and sense of movement in the
photography. He failed to do so, and the
episode suffered.
Much the same happened in an ABC
one hour play which turned up on my
screen later in the week. In this, The
Hobby Horse, the sets were a medium
of horrible nostalgia to me. I could
almost smell the harness and the earth
around the water tank. But the cameras
dulled the effect of all this, and in one
supposedly tense scene between a horse-
breaker and his former Mrs, now married
to a station owner, the idea of shooting
him close up and then taking in the
entire set for her lines diminished things
further.
Unfortunately, too, it was drama with-
out cause. The horsebreaker came to the
station and found his former wife in
residence. He had the alternative of
leaving immediately, like any sensible
man, or grabbing her back. Instead, he
was given the task of appearing to want
her and yet not want her, to be going to
leave and yet not leaving. An hour of
soul-searching by people who did not
know their own minds for more than one
mimite at a time. It could have been
cabed, with apologies to Sidney Kingsley,
“They Knew Not What They Wanted”.
FRANK ROBERTS
THEATRE
BAWDY ODD BALL
The Hostage. Behan. Theatre 62. Perth.
“nPHE hostage” is surely the most un-
tidy of modern plays to achieve
success. Its plot is well-worn enough
to need no exposition and Behan gives
it precious little. He moves his char-
acters and caricatures on and off stage at
will and gives them abrupt changes of
mood and, sometimes, of personality
without the slightest attempt at justifica-
tion. His style fluctuates alarmingly and
is drawn from sources as diverse as
Sheridan, Brecht and the music hall. The
play is bawdy, witty, profane, sentimental,
illogical, unsubtle and, occasionally, mov-
ing. Yet it is diverting and some of
the more popular misconceptions of Ire-
land and the Irish are rudely exposed.
The author’s ambivalence towards the
play and its participants is its undoing,
for the play abounds in those attitudes
and sentiments he most attempts to
shame,
Bruce Williams played the hostage, the
Cockney National Service trainee taken
prisoner by the Irish Republican Army
or w hat remained of it in 1959. He
is at first jaunty and irreverent, but, as
the realisation of his probable fate
grows on him, becomes apprehensive,
fearful and, finally, terrified. This young
man has talent and confidence. His love
scenes with the housemaid (Adrienne
Shea) were especially effective. With
experience he should acquire a more
refined technique so that he may disci-
pbne his tendency to over-dramatise.
The title role is very much secondary
to the antics of the eccentrics who live
in the IRA post-cum-brothel where the


What shall we give him in appreciation ?
Present him with his
portrait in full colour
painted by an outstand-
ing portrait painter.
This genuine oil painting, framed, size
18" x 24", can be yours for as little
as £5O. A minimum of one sitting
required. Delivery guaranteed within
11 days. Mail your application to:
Art Consultant
Orpheus Art Room
18 Renown St., Bentleigh, 5.E.14, Victoria
In the Orpheus Art Room you find the
most rare engravings and etchings priced
from £3 upward.
All inquiries promptly attended to!
hostage is held. They carry on “Busi-
ness”, quarrel, make-up, have parties
and, at unlikely moments, burst into
songs, parodies and dances. They
provide the entertainment, the hostage
merely the plot. Meg, the brothel-keeper
(Margaret Ford), and Pat, her “almost-
husband” (James Kemp), dominated the
play with outstanding performances.
They were always entirely convincing,
credible characterisations. That the
others were not is a criticism of Behan
rather than of the actors. The parts are
written as impersonations rather than
personalities and this is how Frank
Baden-Powell has, quite rightly, pro-
duced them. Special mention must be
made of Rosemary Barr who romped
through the play as the delightful, if
improbable, prostitute turned evangelist.
Of the assorted “harlots, thieves and
‘queers’ ” who make up the company,
I can only say they appeared to be
refugees from University revue. Spirited
they may have been but inspired they
certainly were not.
The presentation is lively, brisk and
enthusiastic. Theatre 62 has a reputation
from producing “odd-ball” plays as much
for pleasure as for profit. Their standard
is high and their rapidly growing band
of followers won’t be disappointed with
this latest offering.
MARY LORD
ART
POINT OF CONTACT
Edwin Tanner. Angus Gallery. Mel-
bourne.
I>y training, Edwin Tanner is both
engineer and philosopher as well as
being an artist of considerable worth.
So he is in a good position to demon-
strate that the supposed “two cultures”
can be effectively made one. His basic
material is the formal sign language of
engineering design, particularly of elec-
trical and chemical engineering. The
conventional signs of a circuit diagram,
for instance, may be used to depict
human figures. For the most part he uses
his shapes to produce a sophisticated
brand of caricature, which is sharp but
not bitter, and thoroughly enjoyable. He
can be striking, too, when he is more
solemn, but he is not so clear and, in
fact, runs close to being pretentious.
His latest works are three dimensional,
constructions as much as paintings. The
overall shape is still a painted square or
rectangle but holes are bored into its
surface, buttons, filings and metal strips
are glued or screwed on, geometric
shapes are built up in relief, and in a
couple of cases solid objects, like the
workings of a clock, are inset. Generally
the covering of paint is sombre and
faintly textured, and rarely is color used
to highlight or contrast. Thus the interest
of the work depends almost wholly on
the definite shapes and curious objects;
and the art lies in attributing meaning to
their arrangement. It is an art which is
intellectual rather than emotional, which
appeals to our wit rather than to our
experience. When he does succeed in
stirring our feelings, as he does for
example with a series of black holes in
the depths of which gleam pearl button
eyes, he more often provokes a cold
shiver than a sense of close participation.
Certainly this is stimulating and
talented painting. It also merits attention
because it is so clearly derived from a
scientific background, and establishes
contact where usually only controversy
exists. It would be a mistake to imagine
that scientific method and artistic creati-
vity should, or will, ever be perfectly
fused; but there can be no question that
the arts particularly have a great deal to
learn about the most startling and fruit-
ful advances of the modern world. The
wilfully complex and fanciful obscurities
which pose today as criticism or as state-
ments of artistic aims would not survive
for a moment in an atmosphere of lucid
scientific enquiry. But method aside, the
points of contact seem to me to be
limited. However brilliantly Edwin
Tanner may display the effects that can
be derived from symbols created to suit
a more utilitarian purpose, he must finally
be judged as an artist, and occasionally
one feels that his work depends too much
simply on a surprising effect. Admittedly
his effects serve him well in his sardonic
statements, but sometimes his studied
highlighting of commonplaces will fail to
impress anyone save those who are
content to treat man-made mysteries as
significant.
BILL HANNAN
TRANQUILLISERS ALL ROUND
Ray Crooke. Bonython Gallery.
Adelaide.
Elaine Wreford and Malcolm Carbins.
Peel St. Gallery. Adelaide.
A dvanced, arrogant, or neurotic paint-
ing disturbs and excites. Most of
us have to summon up some clinical
detachment in order to come to grips
with it. Yielding can result in one’s being
absorbed into the artist’s private obses-
sional universe so that comparisons with
one’s own world are lost.
It is not so with those painters whose
work provides an air of easy tranquillity.
They lope along trails long ago blazed,
setting up individual quiet camps here
and there. Signs of technical mastery
usually accompany the use of conven-
tional modes, and there is no wondering
whether one is in the presence of a
phony or an upstart bandwaggoner.
Three realist peaceful painters exhi-
bited in Adelaide this week. Ray Crooke
showed Queensland exactly, it seemed to
me, as it is. Deep folded valleys, calm
Gauguin figures, the distant Pacific, iron
verandahs, broad dark green leaves, the
sudden red of a flower, the brooding
quiet of a warm rainy climate, and a
concentration of outlines in the fore-
ground giving the effect of marquetry.
The subjects indicated the biological
harmony of interdependent humanity,
vegetation, and soil. Figures, leaves, and
mountains were growing together in that
kind of total mutual parasitism which
humbles pride and makes patterns in
time as well as in space.
Elaine Wreford and Malcolm Carbins
paint the seashore. Light colors and a
feeling of life and movement in sup-
posedly dead things characterise Carbins’
paintings. Wreford offers in fastidious
line a fairy world of sea dreams. She
also shows some oil-on-paper impressions
of India in red and gold.
Queensland, the sea, and India. All of
them have been there a long time. These
three artists have caught the peace en-
gendered by long establishment.
EARLE HACKETT


EXCITEMENT OF DISCOVERY
Roland Wakelin. Bank of New South
Wales Gallery. Sydney.
Stan de Teliga. The Macquarie Gal-
leries. Sydney.
PFhe Arts Council of Australia organised
A this show entitled “A Tribute to
Roland Wakelin” and it covers almost
half a century of exuberant, often pro-
lific activity. It seems incredible today
that paintings as accomplished and con-
trolled could meet with such ignorant and
stupid attacks but the era of colored re-
production had hardly begun, the
“museum without walls”, as Malraux des-
cribes it, did not exist. Fortunately for
us paintings survive both enemies and
friends. The pioneer efforts, a few of
which are here, exude the excitement of
initial discovery. Roland Wakelin went
it alone to come to grips with the formal
order of Post Impressionism within the
Australian landscape, as well as genre por-
trait and still-life subjects. What he
revealed with calm assurance amid firmly
organised structures, was a poetry of
subtle color which is one of his most
important contributions to the modern
movement here. When his interest shifted
from the even light-filled colors of early
morning to the drama of atmosphere and
the golden light of afternoon this subtlety
remained. Somewhat later there is a kind
of fusion of these two broad approaches
in his work into a freer handling of paint
and a host of new harmonies. The peren-
nial vitality of these paintings stems from
an unceasing concern for the painter's
problems which eschews both literature
and lifeless imitation.
Together with a number of Australian
artists, Stan de Teliga finds a kind of
spiritual home in the myths of the ancient
world. Within the means he employs, a
scaffolding of dark, ragged lines on which
a mosaic of richly subdued colors and
tones defines the planes of figures or
landscape, some of the mystery has been
realised. The natural conflict of state-
ment arising after a long period of ab-
stract abstemiousness bursts forth into
figurative subject, both formal and emo-
tional. These lines strive to define the
picture’s architecture and yet retain their
significance as signs of sweeping human
and animal movement through space.
With the activity of color patches adding
considerable tension to this situation, we
are moved from what might superficially
be thought of as Villonesque painting to
something quite romantic. “Theseus and
the Minotaur, evokes the beast’s dark
strength without, curiously, a recourse to
dark tones. The kind of fragmentation
in most of the other paintings is actually
a synthesis of remembered or imagined
reality. The very beat “Jazz Group,”
“Beat Singer” and “Beat Trio” echo the
private melancholy of the performers
rather than the excitement of their per-
formance. Through the generalised
forms, especially of “Jazz Groups,” a
certain strength of composition is
achieved. The two surfboard rider paint-
ings succeed through difficult means in
conveying impressions of balance and
poise amid the forward rush of abstracted
waves. Whatever resolutions of style and
vision de Teliga manages in the future
his return to figuration marks an inte-
resting new development in his work.
J. HENSHAW
BRAQUE AT EIGHTY
/Yn Braque’s eightieth birthday we
w should, of course, recall his past
achievements. He was the last, but by no
means the least, of the “Fauves”, the
creator with Picasso of cubism, the finest
exponent of his time of tactile values
and I’art decoratif as well as the heir to
the French tradition of still-life painting.
But I think the best way of celebrating
this occasion is to honour Braque’s most
recent paintings. For these, like the late
works of Titian, Rembrandt and Cezanne,
are the distillation of a lifetime of artistic
wisdom and painterly experience, and
they also open our eyes to an entirely
new range of visual experiences.
“Metamorphic” is certainly the word
for Braque’s recent pictures (1955 on-
wards) of huge birds flapping across a
lowering sky—pictures which the artist
says “go beyond painting . . . they are
the summing up of all my art”. But
these ideas are even more clearly
reflected in his masterpieces, the atelier
series of 1948-55.
If these complex evocations of studio
interiors seem baffling, it is largely
because their idiom is neither straight-
forwardly figurative nor non-figurative; it
transcends both these approaches—hence
its importance for us today. Nothing
in these pictures is ever what it seems,
objects are painted as if in a state of flux.
“A stone,” Braque once said, “may be
a part of a wall, a piece of sculpture, a
lethal weapon, a pebble on a beach or
else anything you like.”
In terms of art, this means that a
particular shape in one of the ateliers
may be a bird, a vase, a profile or a fish,
it may be something that partakes of all
four, it may represent a real object in
the process of becoming a painted one,
it may mean nothing at all.
Only one thing is certain: Braque wants
to increase our puzzlement not out of
perverse obscurantism, but because he
feels that “the only valid thing in art is
that which cannot be explained”. This
is how he defends himself against even
the best-intentioned interpreters.
This highly idiosyncratic approach to
painting has its disadvantages. Like
Cezanne before him. Braque is always
attempting the impossible.
For Braque, as for very few great
artists, everything has been subordinated
to art. “Pictorial reality” had come to
mean more to him than real life.
JOHN RICHARDSON
FILM
ANOTHER MENAGERIE
Sweet Bird of Youth. St James. Sydney.
IyiANY of the hackneyed elements of
Hollywood productions are here
combined to present a show of depth
and subtlety. Tennessee Williams is re-
sponsible for the story and Geraldine
Page largely responsible for making it
come alive on the screen. The boy from
the wrong side of the tracks, “gone
wrong” in his fight for success (Paul
Newman), Shirley Knight as his blonde,
fresh, all-American sweetheart, her bully
of a father, with a prominent set of false
teeth, and ruthless political ambitions,
the prissy maiden-aunt in mauves and
blues, and the middle-aged actress,
Alexandra Delargo—a has-been, a drug-
addict, with a passion for young men’s
bodies for which she is prepared to pay—
are all there, plus Cinemascope, Techni-
color, and a thick southern accent.
The success is in the acting which in
the end makes one almost prepared to
believe that one of “these nice young
bodies” (Paul Newman’s) is really a nice
clean-cut American boy whose immor-
ality is acceptable because of the purity
of his love for his sweetheart.
The love-must-conquer theme is
played against a sordid, dingy back-
ground of murder, arson, security
guards and abortions. It shines bright
and pure and, in a masterly handling
of suspense, its final strength is not re-
vealed till the last scene.
Paul Newman gives a creditable per-
formance, relying less heavily than usual
on his good looks. He is overshadowed,
as are all other players, by the larger than
life portrayal of Alexandra Delargo by
Geraldine Page -- hers is a superb
performance, providing relief from ten-
sion by quips, jokes and satire.
IRENE BAHKOWSKI


THE RED PAGE
THAT CERTAIN BOOK
A HAIR IN THE SOUP
By DAVID McNICOLL
Vl/fHEN I was about eleven or twelve 1
was fortunate enough to be ill for
sixteen weeks. Bronchitis, I think. The
winters at Goulburn were desperately
cold; and the doctors shook their heads
and shook their thermometers and kept
saying “another week”.
I say fortunate because for me the
sixteen weeks were spent in new wonder-
lands. My supply of Gems and Magnets
had been effectively cut off, and my
situation was not a strategic one to get
’underground supplies. In fact my only
contacts with the outside world were
my parents and a wonderful maid named
Topsy Earth who would fill me in with
fascinating details of the films she had
seen (“Last night I seen a beauty, love.
It was called ‘Corn-Promise’. It was that
sad”).
My mother was my librarian-in-chief.
She shovelled on my bed all the books
she herself loved. Week after week my
eyes soaked up like blotting paper the
fascinating tales of Stevenson, and Scott,
and later of Dickens and Thackeray. One
day I would see the doctor approach,
and his stethoscope would become a
cutlass which he swung (unsuccessfully)
at me as I climbed the rigging. The next
day Topsy would be a snivelling down-
trodden Dickensian drab begging for
food, her hands numb with cold, and I,
top-hatted and opulent, would take her
to the warmth of a fire and feed her hot
buttered muffins and tea.
My father’s ideas of suitable books for
me ran almost on parallel lines to my
mother’s. I say almost. He had, in the
early ’twenties, encountered a novelist
whose style he particularly liked. He had
collected quite a few of them, and these
I was able to intersperse with the Walter
Scotts and the Thackerays. The novelist
was Somerset Maugham.
Somerset Maugham (or W. Somerset
Maugham as he seemed to be known in
those days) was starting his climb to
popularity. I will never forget the fascin-
ation with which I read “The Trembling
of a Leaf”, “The Casuarina Tree”, “The
Moon and Sixpence” and “Cakes and
Ale”.
This was a style of writing which in
its clarity, simplicity and color gave me
the same sort of sensation I experienced
when I first saw a Van Gogh print of
wheatfields. It was the start of a long
love affair with Maugham. I have learnt
to be critical of much of what he has
written ; but one brilliant aspect of his
writing has never changed in its appeal
to me —his simplicity, his succinct choice
of words, his shunning of the complica-
ted. To me, this is good writing.
“Ashenden” was my favorite of those
early Maughams. Ashenden was a spy,
a “good” spy because he was British.
This book had the dual attraction of fine
writing allied with suspense. I will never
forget Maugham’s description of a
woman at whom Ashenden was looking.
Ashenden describes her—her attire, her
coloring, her face ; then he gets to her
hair. “It was,” Ashenden said, “The
sort of hair I would not like to find in
my soup”.
Now / wouldn’t like to find any hair
in my soup. But that description, allied
with the rest of the picture of the lady,
somehow brought her to life. I could
see the coiled, rather messy, blonde hair ;
and in turn smell the over-abundance of
cologne, the damp line of perspiration
between nose and mouth (even though
Maugham hadn’t mentioned them).
Again in Ashenden 1 made my first
acquaintance on paper with the great
adjective. Ashenden was involved in
some clandestine deal which necessitated
killing a man. His accomplice in this
venture was a grotesque person known
as The Hairless Mexican. The victim was
run to earth, The Hairless Mexican
carried out his gruesome task, then went
to report to Ashenden.
His arrival coincided (this is all from
memory, don't charge me if it is not
accurate) with a receipt by Ashenden of
a telegram. Ashenden tore it open and
read it. Then: “You bloody fool,” he said,
“you’ve killed the wrong man”.
The words leapt at me from the page.
That simple statement was charged with
hatred, frustration, suspense—and horror,
that an innocent tourist had been
murdered in mistake for a German agent.
Maugham has remained one of my
heroes with the years. My favorite
book of his is one in which he writes only
forewords. It is called “W. Somerset
Maugham’s Introduction to Modern
English and American Literature”. It is,
in my view, one of the finest collections
of short stories, essays and verse ever
put together, and if I were asked what
book I would be shipwrecked with, then
this is my choice.
The book is far-ranging and catholic.
The writers Maugham admires are the
ones I admire (or do I now particularly
admire them because Maugham has
pointed out their virtues?).
His writers range through Saroyan,
Dos Passos, Scott Fitzgerald, Osbert Sit-
well, Arlen, Lawrence, Huxley, Woolf,
E. M. Forster, Thurber, Strachey, Kip-
ling, Edith Wharton, Katherine Mans-
field and Henry James.
His poets include Spender, MacNeice,
Lewis, Auden, Dorothy Parker, Cum-
mings, Betjeman, Belloc, Sassoon, Owen,
Binyon, Frost, de la Mare —and some of
my saints, T. S. Eliot, Housman and
Yeats.
Talking of the young Americans (Fitz-
gerald, etc.) who discovered Paris in the
’2os, Maugham writes: “But it was not
only literally that they looked upon the
wine when it was red, these young men
who went abroad. Not a few of them
imbibed also of the strong wine of French
culture, and its effects were perhaps not
less harmful. They accepted the French
at their own very absurd valuation of
themselves, which was that outside
France nothing of artistic value existed
or could exist. The most talented bar-
tered their native energy for a mannered
stylisation, and a symbolism foreign to
their temper”.
Of T. S. Eliot: “There is a poetry that
gives you the same sort of thrill, a strange
primeval feeling, that you get when on a
river in Borneo you hear the drums beat-
ing in the distant village, when you
walk alone in those silent stealthy woods
of South Carolina, or when in the
jungle of Indo-China you come upon
those vast, those colossal heads of Brahma
that form the towers of a ruined temple.
It is just that feeling I get when I read
the poems, the later poems, of T. S.
Eliot. I do not pretend I altogether
understand them, though each time I read
them I think I understand them better,
but that is the emotion I get from them,
a peculiar thrill, an anxious animal excite-
ment that I find in the work of no other
poet”.
I have a daughter with whom I am
somewhat besotted. She is young but
leaves me far behind in literary apprecia-
tion. I asked her one day to name her
favorite book. Without hesitation she
said “Somerset Maugham’s Introduction
to Modern Literature”. A smart child.
I wanted to tell this to Somerset
Maugham one day as he sat in the lounge
of the little Hotel Relais Besson in Paris
looking quizzically at a Bernard Buffet
on the wall. I wanted to tell him he had
brought joy to three generations of a
far-off Australian family. But I only
shook the hand of the frail hawk-faced
old man and he nodded politely as we
were introduced.


THE BIG SPEAK
By PETER COLEMAN
a long while it was only the French
who were able to appreciate a writer
simply as a writer without first checking
up whether his subject-matter was
serious enough. Even today there are still
plenty of English-speaking critics who
will give more attention to some labored
novel with a pretentious theme by, say,
Colin Wilson than to a well-written
thriller by, say, Eric Ambler.
But if there has been a basic change
in attitude it has probably been due more
to Raymond Chandler than to any other
writer. It was he who, starting where
Dashiell Hammett left off, broke through
the intellectual snob barrier, turned the
pulp novel into a sort of literature and
created the new folk hero, the hard-
boiled private eye, the unillusioned
failure in an evil world.
His latest book*—a collection of his
letters —on everything from the craft
of writing and famous crimes to cats and
publishers is bound to reinforce his repu-
tation. He is hard-boiled about the genre
he chose. “It isn’t possible to write a
strictly honest mystery of the classic
type. To get the complications you fake
the clues, the timing, the play of co-
incidence, assume certainties where only
50 per cent chances exist at most. To
get the surprise murderer you fake the
character, which hits me hardest of all,
because I have a sense of character.”
And the “mystery novel has to appeal to
a cross-section of the entire reading pub-
lic and cannot possibly appeal to all
these by the same devices.” But within
the limits or discipline of this craft he
aimed at (and achieved) “a control similar
to the control a great pitcher has over
the ball. The actual writing is what you
live for. The rest is something you have
to get through in order to arrive at the
point.”
The letters are also interesting for
what they tell about Chandler’s life—his
Irish Protestant background, his days in
a British Public School, his six months in
the Admiralty (when he resigned “it was
a bombshell; perhaps no one had ever
done it before”), his life as a Blooms-
bury intellectual and contributor of
poems and reviews to highbrow maga-
zines (though he also once wrote to Sir
George Newnes offering to buy a piece
of his sensationally successful “Tit-Bits”),
his service in the Canadian Army and the
RAF in the 1914-1918 war, his settling
in California, his pulp writing, his
marriage and finally the moving letters
about his wife Cissy’s death and his
own last years: drinking, going on the
wagon (“I don’t miss alcohol physically
at all but I do miss it mentally and
spiritually”), fast driving (“In Arizona
you hardly ever see a highway patrol car.
The two absolute essentials are perfect
tires and absolute concentration. Four
hours of this is all I can take at my age,
but I enjoyed it”), wedding anniversary
parties after Cissy’s death (“I’m going
to fill the house with red roses and
have a friend in to drink champagne.
A useless and probably foolish gesture
because my lost love is utterly lost and
I have no belief in an after life.”), the
suicide attempt (“I couldn’t for the life
of me tell you whether I really intended
to go through with it or whether my
subconscious was putting on a cheap
dramatic performance”), and the week
in the asylum.
But the book ranges over all his in-
terests. In 1951 an American magazine
asked him to write an article on “The
True Murder Mystery I Wish I’d
Created”. He didn’t take up the offer
but it led him into painstaking analysis
of some famous murder mysteries, the
results of which are published here.
The cases that intrigued him most were
the Crippen, Wallace, Maybrick and
Bartlett cases: Crippen partly because
he was that almost impossible animal—
the likeable murderer who died like a
gentleman, but especially because he
had the intelligence, opportunity and
temperament for a perfect crime yet
made mistakes suggesting a panic he
didn’t feel or a stupidity he wasn’t
usually guilty of. Chandler is obviously
impressed though not convinced by
Marshall Hall’s theory that Crippen
hadn’t murdered his wife but had given
her an overdose of hyoscin to calm her
sexual passions and put her to sleep
while he had Ethel Le Neve in his
home. In the case of Adelaide Bartlett
who was acquitted of poisoning her hus-
band with liquid chloroform, he is con-
vinced she did do it and only got off
because of the brilliant defence by Sir
Edward Clarke and the fact that she
used an extremely difficult and unpre-
cedented means of murder: liquid
chloroform is neither tasteless, odorless,
instantaneous, nor easy to administer
and had never been used before as a
murder weapon. Her success was a
medical miracle.
These excerpts from letters on a
variety of matters make a scrappy book
but it has been well edited and a picture
of the Master comes through: not basi-
cally a surprising picture since the
creator of Raymond Chandler put so
much of himself into his books, but a
more varied one. Needless to say he is
at his sharpest when talking about him-
self or writers in general: it contains his
(unpublished) ruthless short story on a
man-and-wife writing team who know
they are failures, and a series of such
observations as: “Writers are apt to be
a cantankerous and not particularly
lovable set of people; they have the
egotism of actors without either the
good looks or the charm.”
‘‘Yes, l am exactly like the charac-
ters in my books. I am very tough
and have been known to break a
Vienna roll with my bare hands. I am
very handsome, having a powerful
physique, and 1 change my shirt
regularly every Monday morning.
When resting between assignments I
live in a French Provincial chateau
on Mulholland Drive. It is a fairly
small place of forty-eight rooms and
fifty-nine baths. I dine off gold plate
and prefer to be waited on by naked
dancing girls. But of course there are
times when I have to grow a beard and
hole up in a Main Street flophouse,
and there are other times when 1 am,
although not by request, entertained
in the drunk tank in the city gaol.
I have friends from all walks of
life. I have fourteen telephones on my
desk, including direct lines to New
York, London, Paris, Rome and Santa
Rosa. My filing case opens out into a
very convenient portable bar, and the
bartender, who lives in the bottom
drawer, is a midget. I am a heavy
smoker and according to my mood I
smoke tobacco, marijuana, corn silk
and dried leaves. I do a great deal
of research, especially in the apart-
ments of tall blondes. I get my
material in various ways, but my
favorite procedure consists of going
through the desks of other writers
after hours . I am thirty-eight years
old and have been for the last twenty
years. 1 do not regard myself as a
dead shot, but I am a pretty dangerous
man with a wet towel. But all in all
I think my favorite weapon is a
twenty dollar bill.”
Raymond Chandler, in answer
to a magazine inquiry if he were
tike Philip Marlowe.
* Raymond Chandler Speaking. Edited
by Dorothy Gardiner and Katherine
Sorley Walker. Hamish Hamilton.
265.


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. “D”. Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if
successful.
SEARCH FOR VALUES
Strike The Father Dead. John Wain.
Macmillan. 225. 6d.
Tom Fool. David Stacton. Faber. 20s.
Seen Dimly Before Dawn. Nigel
Balchin. Collins. 20s.
Deep Of the Sky. Tom Ronan. Cassell.
31s. 6d.
YJ/hereas the duty of serious novelists
"" before the 20th century was to
underpin or re-interpret the established
values of western civilization, their task
since 1900 has been to make a survey
of the ruins of those values, which has
taken about fifty years, and then to put
forward those precise secular values
which will enable man to live with him-
self again. The chief ruin-surveyors were
Proust, Mann and Joyce and among the
new value-proposers are Sartre and
Camus. How do the four books—three
novels and one biography—fit into this
scheme?
John Wain’s new book projects a con-
flict of values between a father who is
a Professor of Classics and a son who
cannot begin to find any meaning in a
preoccupation with Greek and Latin, but
who discovers in jazz at first an escape
from the academic world, and then a
system of values appropriate to his
psychology. This is the theme which
Mr Wain develops in his story: the boy
runs away from school and from home,
takes up a shabby underground existence
in war-time London, and in place of the
rejected father admires a Negro trom-
bone player with whom he communicates
less with words than with the jazz they
learn to play together. Their communion
is broken when Jeremy discovers that
the friend they have both depended upon
has deserted his wife and children, and
realises that jazz—no more than classical
literature—can save the innocent from
suffering.
Mr Wain tells his story and explores
his situation through the eyes of three
of the main characters —the father, the
son and an aunt who represents in her
simplicity and devotion the Christian
values that both father and son reject.
Eventually, after Jeremy has been badly
injured while helping his Negro friend
to beat off an attack by racialist thugs,
he establishes a mild rapport with his
father who confesses to him, in the hos-
pital, that his own life was crippled in
the death-orgy of the First World War.
This is a complex and profound novel,
written with great liveliness and clarity.
At the end, the great and possible value
is seen to be integrity:
“When you’ve known about one set
of things for a long time, and learnt to
handle them with some kind of authority,
they stop being just things and become
a way of life. ... It doesn’t even matter
what the job is, so long as you can put
your heart into it. What’s the difference?
You live by doing what you have to do.”
David Stacton, in his novel based upon
the life—or part of the life—of Wendell
Wilkie, who opposed Roosevelt in the
US Presidential election of 1940, searches
for political values, and here, too,
personal integrity is seen to be the
answer. The reader accompanies the
candidate on his campaign tour of the
USA and is shown how the honesty of
the man is perpetually in conflict with
his publicity agents, his managers, the
party machine and the state of the
nation itself. Mr Stacton’s eye for social
condition and shades of corruption is fine
and clear, and his concentrated style
enables him to pack a great deal of satire
into a few lines, as in this section on
North Dakota:
“North Dakota was at its best in the
autumn, which was the pheasant-shoot-
ing season. The Dakotas were famous
for the pheasant. Nothing is more
American, if you can afford it, than to
go pheasant shooting in North Dakota.
If you could not afford it, you could
always watch it in the liquor ads. instead.
“Unfortunately the pheasants them-
selves had been imported from Mongolia
about fifty years before.
“So much for isolation.”
Nigel Balchin’s first-novel for seven
years deals with the value of the ideal-
istic love of a boy of fifteen for a woman
of twenty-five who is the mistress of an
uncle with whom he spends a school
holiday period. The integrity dealt with
here is that of honest feeling: the relation-
ship between the woman and the boy is
developed as much from their shared
affection for the uncle as from the
attraction they feel for each other. A
brutal farmer and a drunken curate
attack the integrity of their relationship,
and it is eventually broken by a violent
seduction of the woman by the farmer.
The boy goes back to school with “a
sense of most bitter hollowness and loss.”
He has learned that integrity is not an
easy thing to keep.
Mr Tom Ronan’s book is a biography
of his father, a man recognised as “one
of the finest stock riders in the business.”
Here, the traditional way of life of early
Australian cattlemen calls for values of
courage, endurance and companionship
so sternly and unavoidably that it often
seems that integrity was a growth of the
landscape and a necessity for survival.
At any rate, Mr Ronan paints the picture
of the place and the time with affection
and vividness, and sums his father up
simply at the end: “He was a good mate
and, either as man or cattleman, I don’t
expect ever to look upon his like again.”
NORMAN GEAR
THAT HEROIC ELOPEMENT
Realms and Islands. Marnie Bassett.
Oxford University Press. 555. 6d.
The Pirates of the Brig Cyprus. Frank
Clune and P. R. Stephenson. Rupert
Hart-Davis. 265.
VI/’hen Louis de Freycinet set out on
his famous scientific expedition in
1817, he took with him one unofficial
guest—Rose, his wife. She had come
on board just before sailing disguised as
a youth. This not only broke French
naval rules but was about as unladylike a
deed as Bourbon Restoration society
could imagine. However, Rose had no
children, was quite flagrantly devoted
to her husband (not then so unremark-
able) and so had little prospects of con-
solation during his three years’ absence.
Considering the perils, it was an heroic
elopement.
The journal she kept makes it clear
that she had no flair for adventure nor
was in any way prepared to flout other
feminine convention. Quite the con-
trary. There is no impulse to shock or
to crusade or to eat away any male pre-
rogatives. And perhaps here lies the one
weakness of “Realms and Islands”:
Rose is too commonplace a personality,
she has no generous fund of earthi-
ness or sagacity, humor or rebelliousness.
Like many a Victorian heroine she is just
too devoted and her reactions too pre-
dictable to be absorbing. A much more
interesting character seems to have
travelled with her, the artist, Jacques
Arago, whose memoirs unfortunately saw
their last English edition in 1823. When
the “Uranie” foundered at the Falkland
Islands and the sailors at the pumps
improvised ribald verses on some
weatherbeaten chanty tune to stave off
weariness and the terror of death, the
following dialogue (according to Arago)
took place:
“Nonsense!” I said to her, “don’t
worry about these brave fellows —they
are angels inside the rough hides of
demons! They speak of you, and want
to know how you are getting on —you


THE RED PEONY
Lin Yutang
Peony a woman who sought life with all her
being is the unforgettable heroine of this stylish,
witty story set in 19th century China.
261-
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON MELBOURNE SYDNEY AUCKLAND
have nothing to fear from them, now, or
ever.”
"But these hideous songs?”
"They think you don't understand
them.”
“One can guess their impiety.”
"What you call impiety, Madam, is
brcivoura.”
"It could take another form.”
"Sailors, Madam, are not made of
gauze and lace, there must be consis-
tency in everything.”
“Let us put our trust in the Holy
Virgin!”
“In the holy pump. Madam.”
Perhaps it is unchivalrous to have
specified this weakness so soon, because
the book is a fine example of sympathe-
tic and indubitable scholarship, quite
apart from the inherent fascination of the
great exploratory voyages, for there were
assuredly heroes abroad in those days.
Lady Bassett has obviously warmed to
this inexperienced young wife “continu-
ing her role as housekeeper, managing
her husband's table and domestic purse
while at sea." Rose's journal and letters,
and De Freycinet's reports are the bases
of the book, and the panorama is
enlivened by the author's sure grasp of
historical detail and by an excellent
choice of plates.
The “Uranie" sailed via Rio to the
Cape of Good Hope, on to Mauritius,
then to Shark Bay, Timor, the Marianne
and Sandwich Islands, Sydney and home
via the Horn. To us the most interesting,
though hardly the most exotic, ports of
call are the two Australian ones. At
Shark Bay, which De Freycinet had
visited fifteen years earlier with Baudin,
he had geographical detail to fill in, but
there was also a fine trophy to be had,
Valmingh’s pewter plate, set up in 1697
when that explorer had removed Dirk
Hartog's. (The later adventures of this
plate are recorded in an appendix.) The
country was desolate, the natives much
as Dampier had described them, more
miserable than those nasty Hodmadods
of Monomatapa. A short excursion into
the interior nearly brought disaster ; a
quaff of seagull’s blood kept two of
the party from dying of thirst.
A year later, Australia was visited
again, this time Macquarie’s Sydney
which, not just by contrast, is extolled
by our travellers: “Would to God,” said
Rose, “the French had as well-established
a penal colony as this one!” And her
husband: “It was reserved to British
genius ... to transform a vicious popula-
tion into industrious colonists, destined
one day to change the face of the land.”
This, in spite of having their silver filched
by one reluctant pioneer. Our travellers
were more than mollified by the civility
of Barron Field, of Macquarie and of
Macarthur. But the charm of the narra-
tive lies in interestingly odd touches such
as Macquarie’s sending his vice-regal
barge to convey these guests to his
“chateau” at Parramatta, and with sure
Hanoverian style despatching a second
barge with the regimental band to sere-
nade their way ; or in Macarthur’s gift
of two fine merinos in the hope of influ-
encing French flocks ; or Arago's impres-
sion of Greenway stables (“so whimsical
an architecture that he could find no
words to describe it”). The success of
the book does not depend on the acuity
of Mme de Freycinet.
\ decade later, De Freycinet’s route
was crossed by less reputable
mariners, the convicts who had seized the
brig “Cyprus” carrying them from
Hobart to the hell-hole of Macquarie
Harbor. The story is quite well-known
but the old firm of Frank Clune and P. R.
Stephenson has cleared up many previ-
ously ooscure points and has sketched in
an interesting background of convict con-
vention and court procedure. The
mastermind, William Walker alias
Swallow, was an intrepid and resourceful
rogue but it is hardly sentimental to
think that society should have found
some employment for his talents other
than stealing. Not that he is any Robin
Hood ; like many shrewd criminals he
prepared against the evil day of recap-
ture and finally evaded the noose by
“inculpating” (to use a favorite word of,
I presume, Mr Clune’s). But Walker docs
fit the romantic picture of more-sinned-
against-convict rather well. The narrative
is not stylish, but makes a straightfor-
ward and effective yarn.
J AMES GRIFFIN
ILLUMINATIONS ON RIMBAUD
Arthur Rimbaud. Enid Starkie. Faber.
755.
Tt is now generally agreed that Rimbaud
-*■ is the greatest French poet since Baude-
laire, and for reasons that should be dis-
concerting to those who have been led
into the comfortable conviction that he
is something of a French Dylan Thomas.
Arthur Rimbaud was born on October
20, 1854 at Charleville in the Ardennes.
His first known poem ‘‘Les Etrennes des
Ophelins”, was written in 1869 at the
age of 15 and by the following year he
had written another twenty-two poems
all of which have a permanent place in
any anthology of the best French poetry.
In 1870 he ran away from home for the
first time to escape the tyranny and mis-
understanding of his mother; in Septem-
ber, 1871, he w-ent to Paris at Verlaine’s
invitation and took with him a copy of
“Le Bateau Ivre”. Verlaine introduced
Rimbaud to some of the writers of the
day but his deliberately provocative and
arrogant behaviour alienated the very
people who could have helped him, and
he returned home again deeply disap-
pointed at his first contact with the
“literary world”. From May, 1872, Ver-
laine and Rimbaud lived together in Paris,
Brussels and London. Though their un-
happy, tormented relationship was to end
in the Brussels incident of July, 1873
(when Verlaine, in a drunken rage, shot
Rimbaud in the wrist and was sentenced
to two years’ jail), it was also the time
during which both poets wrote some of
their finest work. Rimbaud's "Illumina-
tions” were written during this period
and, after the shooting, "Une Saison en
Enfer”, which marks his farewell to
literature.
After "Une Saison en Enfer” Rimbaud
began a life of wandering, living as a
vagrant, undertaking a variety of jobs
from tutoring to working as a circus
hand. He is known to have visited Bata-
via, Cyprus, Alexandria and the last
eleven years of his life were spent be-
tween Aden and Harar where he worked
for a company that traded in coffee and
skins. He explored Somaliland, was the
first European to reach Bubassa and then
traded on his own in Abyssinia in rifles
and slaves. These last years of his life
were marked by incredible suffering and
self-torture. Illness forced him to make
an agonising return to France in 1891.
He died of cancer at Marseilles in 1891
at the age of 37.
Dr Starkie’s book is a completely re-
vised version of her classic study of


MOTOR OVERHAUL
WHILE-U-DRIVE
REPLATES WORN, upper cylds., main bear-
ings, diffs., gears. SAVE: Rebore. ENDS:
slap, rattles, oil, petrol waste,
RES I ORES: New compression, power, top
speed, zip, SAVES: Adds LSD to re-sale value.
GUARANTEED: Up to 25.000 miles. Harmless
.finest engine, liquid Nu-Metal, or in Tablet
form. SIMPLY: Add Re-Nu expanding liquid
Nu-Metal, or in Tablet form to oil, netrol, or
plug holes, 4,6, 8 cylds., 60/. 70/. 80/. Testi-
monials, engineers’ reports, free advice avail-
able. Open Saturday. Distributors required.
RE-NU CO. (estab. 1932), 58 Swan St. op.
Richmond Stn., Vic. J 81755
I enclose £ for Super Nu-Metal.
NAME
ADDRESS
BUL.
?? STORAGE ??
for your products in
ADELAIDE
We have a client who can offer up
to 3,000 sq. ft. under ideal conditions
and supervision at very reasonable
costs. If your products need more
than the usual supervision, contact
us. Write in first instance to:
McCALLUM-RJCHARDSON
ADVERTISING LTD.
101 Flinders St., Adelaide,
South Australia.
Missing Friends
CLARA HINKIN wife of Garner Hinkin who
prior to 1901 lived at Lesterhills. Bradford.
England, and who migrated to Sydney be-
tween about 1909 and 1913. or anybody
knowing her whereabouts, please communi-
cate with Messrs Bevins & Houen, Solicitors.
79 Elizabeth Street. Sydney.
WOULD anyone knowing the whereabouts of
any ex-member of the 55th Battery, A.F.A.,
Ist A.I.F. please advise N. M. Baglin, Secty.,
55th Batty. Assoc., 3 Parkside St.. Malvern,
Victoria.
Legal Notices
TO: PERCIVAL RAY HILL formerly of
Wollongong in the State of New South Wales
TAKE NOTICE that Frances Colleen Hill has
filed a Divorce Petition against you on the
ground of desertion. Included in the Petition
is a claim for custody and maintenance of
the children of the marriage and for the costs
of these proceedings. AND TAKE NOTICE
that if you intend to defend the Petition you
must file an Answer within 28 davs of the
publication of this Notice at the" Registry
of the Supreme Cotrrt of Tasmania, Macquarie
Street, Hobart, from which address further
information can be obtained otherwise the
Court may hear and determine the proceed-
ings in your absence. DATED this 23rd day
of May, 1962. C. BRETTINGHAM-MOORE,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
Matrimonial Causes Act, 1959
TO: RONALD JAMES WATKIN
TAKE NOTICE that Jean Elizabeth Watkin
has filed a Petition for divorce No. 1511 of
1962 on the ground of desertion. If you wish
to defend you may file an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney by the 23rd day of July 1962
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from Charles Griffiths, Solicitor, 107-
109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, New South
Wales. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Rimbaud that first appeared in 1938; it
supersedes all previous editions. The
strangeness of Rimbaud’s life has tended
to arouse more interest than his poetry
and it is a virtue of Miss Starkie’s book
that she nowhere loses sight of the fact
that if we are still interested in Rimbaud
it is because he was a great poet and
artist. More damaging though than any
natural interest in his life is the current
misconception that Rimbaud is something
of a French Hart Crane or even the
prototype of the Beats; and the Surrealists
helped to bring him into disrepute for a
while by their dilettantish and pathetic
efforts to exploit part of his work without
any of his superb formal qualities and
professional interest in technique; though
Rimbaud knew that technique in poetry
is not the same as, for instance, proficien-
cy in a foreign language, and that it has
to be rediscovered in every new poem.
What needs to be recovered, as critics
like C. A. Hackett, C. Chadwick and Dr
Starkie have been stressing for some time
now, is the awareness that Rimbaud’s
style is nearly always simple and direct,
and though “his experience was frag-
mentary and partial, his poetry still
touches and grasps the central problems
of our age”. If it is in some senses imma-
ture it is nevertheless the work of a
superb artist, and it will probably always
irritate those who confuse ‘good poems’
and ‘important poetry’ as the current
orthodoxy understands that term.
Dr Starkie is over-inclined, I think, to
see alchemical intentions behind many of
Rimbaud’s images which can be explained
more simply Rimbaud after all was
not Nerval: and though he doubtless read
a number of occult books, his meaning
is usually more direct and immediate
than some of Dr Starkie’s interpretations
might suggest. But this is an indispens-
able and valuable book and it is a pity
that Faber’s proof readers did not do a
better job: there are misprints in poems,
punctuation is erratic, and there are no
proper or reliable notes to some of the
illustrations. This simply is not good
enough for the best biography of Rim-
baud in any language.
VIVIAN SMITH
SORROW AND SORE EYES
ihe Cockney and the Crocodile.
Caroline Gye. Faber and Faber,
31s.
HTrachoma is an ancient and crippling
JL eye disease which affects some 400
million of the world's population. Its
incidence is highest in the Middle East
especially in Egypt. In England one per
10,000 is blind from it. According to the
World Elealth Organisation, Australia is
one of the few places still free from it.
However, a recent survey sponsored by
the Royal Flying Doctor Service found
what everybody outback already knew
(except apparently WHO and the Public
Health Department), that trachoma was,
in fact, widespread.
Caroline Gye, an English ophthalmo-
logist, was one of the party making the
survey and "The Cockney and the Croco-
dile” is her account of several expeditions
made through the backblocks of Western
Australia, "the land of sin, sand, sorrow
and sore eyes,” in search of the virus
Chlamydozoon trachomatis. She visited
lonely mission stations, isolated mining
towns, cattle holdings in the Kimberleys
the size of Denmark, and further afield
to New Guinea and the islands. In vary-
ing degrees the story was much the same.
Over a vast area there were traces of
trachoma.
“The Cockney and the Crocodile” is
for the most part a travel book of the
conventional kind. It is anecdotal and
episodic in its approach, the method is
visual and impressionistic, and deals with
descriptions of landscape and people.
What is unusual is the general theme
and this linked to a lively imagination
makes it above-average reading.
Some of the narrative could be said to
flatter national self-esteem but there is
a lot that, for all its modesty of state-
ment, is highly critical. At the Bagot
Native School, Darwin, “where every-
thing was dusty, third-rate and run
down , 38 per cent, of the pupils had
trachoma while at the native camp out-
side Wyndham the figures were almost
as bad: "There we found a stretch of
barren ground dotted with tin shacks of
the most derelict, swarming with filthy
children and bedraggled adults slightly
resentful. By some of the tumbledown
sheds of homes stood cars, some glorious-
ly new, some tin Lizzies of the worst.
17 per cent, of the half-caste population
and 28 per cent, of the full bloods were
infected. Two people were blind with
trachoma.”
As a medico she is qualified to speak
on some of the thornier aspects of as-
similation. Bring the natives in out of
the bush and they are likely to collect
scurvy, lice, scabies and trachoma, she
writes. The aborigine comes to learn
to wear clothes but not to wash them,
to comb his hair but not to get the nits
out, to speak pidgin English and to relish
white man's tucker which is Government
hand-out and guaranteed almost free of
vuamins. It is a disturbing prospect she
presents.
The commentary is interspersed with
touches of humor. Norman, a full-blood
from the Warburtons, was taken down to
Perth to see the Queen. On returning he
was asked what happened and replied,
"Yes. I saw the Queen. Reckon she could
do with a good feed of kangaroo. Lots of
soldiers. They all had rifles and stood
to attention. Then they all fired at the
Queen and they missed her—very poor
shots.”
DOUGLAS TERRY


Feiffer
MM.WIF i AMP l
HAP BROKEN UP
MM JOd WAS
eo\\Jb oom
THE PRAIA) AMP
7 1 UJAE Pi'
\ 1/640P1M6 A
1 (7RIMMIU6
PROBLEM. I
6ALO MM6EIF
m a latent
failure.
SO Mi PAM I SAT
DOOJM AMP ASKPP
MMSELF WHV.
AM INTELLIGENT
MAM SHOULI?
' BE ABLE ro
0 IMORM TH ROUSH
£ HIS '
PROBLEMS,.
the first AMS mu
1 CAMP UP WITH
MAS THE ARMS
mi, the Begun
CRISIS AMP THE
PEAR OF OVER'
7 POPULATION- WT
> I Far THAT
WHILE trot,
THIS MAS
BASICAUM AM
EVASION.
m SECOND m-
WER MiAS THAT IT
WAS A PLOT OM
TUB PART OF MM
0 ewemies to
Lj CRUSH HE
Lj BECAUSE of MM
k g£iM6 SO BRI6HT.
"* WHILE MO POU6T
IM PART TRUE
i far that
THIS TOO (NAb
AM Pl/ASIOM.
THEM 1 Hir 0.0 ■
rue amowtr /
IP BEEM A
AWIMSAU (a
Awite. rae
ROOT Of MM
fai cm m '
IM Mtf MUHAPPM
childhood
50 I WfjOT !(JfO
AMAWSIf- AMP
FOUMP our
THAT 1 HAP ,
A W
HAPPY
CdIuPHOOP.
THEREFORE, ®MOIPARIM6 q
MM BACKSROIAJt?, HP W
intellect amp MM tfJ
abiutm' ro srr mowHWy
MM OWM 61/A6/OMS AO VV
E'Jwence, i proveo ro S-
HHSELP THAT PSSP/ff
MINOR SETBACKS I AMS '
MIOTAKFM IM MM PREVIOUS
SaF-AMArMSff. r WAS
NOT A FAiPURf!
RESEARCH
N proves
) I'M A
- wascs!
A ,
-iTfIWHT!
The Bulletin" Crossword No. 696
ACROSS
I—Going down with majesty is misbehaviour. (7)
4 —This makes a dull fellow seek oil. (4)
7—Accumulate a half-day donkey. (5)
9—The twitchless unromantic non-Latin. (7)
11—This makes a Russian oil city ignorantly support
you. (4)
13— Low diver becomes far too savage. (8)
14— Blonde—but only just. (4)
15— Otherwise enlarged by one Miss Morison. (5)
16— Croaker to be associated with
publicity. (4)
17— Pine dropping in like this
Mexican coin. (4)
19— Depressed by a brawl. (4)
20— Fastener for a collar trade
union in South Dakota. (4)
21— Band composer like this
associated with his homeland.
(5)
22 A finer bill. (4)
23 Ignorantly, lam quite a tree.
(8)
25 I am brought to heel by this
Turkish counterpart of 22-
across. (4)
26 Levelling sundown. (7)
27 Bacon production suggesting
Adelaide and thereabouts? (5)
28— Back door area. (4)
29 Sydney suburb giving the ark
hog a change. (7)
DOWN
1— A famous disaster for in-
vestors. (5, 3,6)
2 Communication from a
bigoted mouse in a hair-
breadth escape. (6, 6)
3 -Novel comment on girls who
eloped with the trumpeters,
flautists, etc. (4, 4,3, 4)
4 Dish 1-down and 2-down?
(6, 3,6)
5 It’s of some use in cultivating
a profligate. (4)
6 The French moved the kanga-
roo's associate. (3)
B—A bumper delivery is so like
a tai'or after he’s been robbed.
(5, 2,1, 6)
10—Much less fiery McNamee
kerosene is too much for it.
(6)
12—Very much better colour in
part of Canada’s southern
boundary. (4, 8)
18—This makes a skyscraper aim
high! (6)
24 An English test captain gets
a duck in western Ireland
and Virginia. (4)
25 The property of an auto-
mobile owner keeps one in
credit. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 695


" V-
■
H
(
EXTRAS
The American blend cigarette now made
in Australia... so much fresher
ARLYLE
extras
20
sUR
A N D
LEAP
B RI<3 HT
measure your cigarette here
ft*/
Only Carlyle could. . .
taste so good it’s blended
World Copyright
MANUFACTURED FOR THE AMERICAN CIGARETTE COMPANY (OVERSEAS) PTY. LTD
CE5061.2.62
'with just
a touch
of Turkish
