

The Bulletin
AUSTRALIA 1/-, NEW ZEALAND 2/-, SINGAPORE AND MALAYA $1
SEPTEMBER 22
AN AUSTRALIAN JOURNAL OF COMMENT AND OPINION EST. 1880
little n» n ,
Stines
DISCOS The $M Prior fight
MOSCOW Gambling with Castrrfs tub®
fISWi M§* 5 In Print# Ministers Series


The world’s finest tobacco is at your fingertips
UNTIPPED
KING SIZE
CIGARETTES
The extra length for
greater smoothness
THE
ONLY VIRGINIA
KING SIZE
PLAIN


SOUTH EAST ASIA OR SOUTH AMERICA?
/AN page 28 is the first of two articles on “Communism and Latin
America” a matter of greater moment to this country than is
generally recognised. Its precise importance lies not only in the dangers
of Cuba-type revolutions being sparked off among South America’s
140,000,000 impoverished and largely exploited peoples but in what steps
the United States will take to counteract them. US world responsibilities
are huge and growing despite the economic and political renaissance of
Western Europe. A sudden and disastrous explosion of Communist
orientated revolutions throughout Latin America might well have the
effect—it is hard to see how it would not have the effect—of causing the
US to undergo an agonising reappraisal about its commitments elsewhere
in the world and especially in South East Asia—commitments which at
times must seem peculiarly unrewarding.
If in a rational calculation of its own interests the US were to find
South East Asia expendable, South America is certainly not. Largely
-Western in culture and geographically next door, its political and military
inviolability are no less essential to LIS survival today than in President
Monroe’s time. And yet if any continent is ripe for violent social revolu-
tion it is South America. Although Latin American countries established
their political independence from Spain and Portugal long ago, with the
exception of Argentina and Mexico there have been no social revolutions
of any consequence. A feudal Indian peasantry, industrial backwardness,
the Church and geographical isolation have combined to produce social
systems in which as the correspondent on page 28 points out almost
without variation the rich have grown richer and the poor poorer.
Thus Cuba is the crucible of the future. It is now quite apparent that
the July 26 movement no matter what high hopes it may have started with
has become a Communist convulsion of the usual hideous kind. Castro s
Cuba is a country where peasants who looked forward to increased land
holdings have been stupidly and senselessly collectivised and are worse
off than ever, where the middle classes are now the excuse and target for
further excesses, where a whole economy has been brutally destroyed.
Despite this Cuba is a hard fact of life and an uncertain beacon to the
rest of South America. It may be true that many of the intellectuals and
most of the middle classes of Spanish America are sceptical of Castroism
and look aghast at what amounts to a successful Russian invasion of the
hemisphere. But the exploited anti-Yanqui masses are nevertheless
stirred by the force and rigor of the Cuban revolution and sullenly remind
themselves that they too have earnestly sought to overthrow reac-
tionary regimes which owe their very existence to US support. It is thus
quite clear that the US must prepare to promote social reform in South
America and to underwrite it on a scale hitherto unthought of. If the
rot really sets in, US interests in other parts of the world including ours
may well contract.
THE FIGHT BUSINESS Page 22
On the Night of September 3
©
The Lazar Case White Man,
Black Woman 6
£7OOO for “Divinely Dressed
Ladies” 9
Boom in Little Magazines 12
US Tourists Look at Us 16
Brinkmanship Tufton Beamish
M.P 18
Andrew Fisher No. 5 in the
Prime Ministers’ Series 19
The Brilliant Student Short
Story 24
Communism and Latin America—
No. 1 28
Arms and America No. 3 .... 29
“Sarsaparilla” at Adelaide .... 33
M. H. Ellis on Manning Clark as
Historian 36
Queensland Awakening Giant 40
Accent on Primary Products .... 41
Could Holt Say No? 45
•
NATIONAL NOTEBOOK 4
TANNER 5
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
80 YEARS AGO 8
AROUND MELBOURNE 9
OUT AND ABOUT 16
SPORTING NOTIONS ..... 22
SHORT STORY ..... 24
OVERSEAS _ 28
LETTERS «... 31
REVIEWS . .. .... 33
RED PAGE ... 36
MAN ON THE LAND 40
WORLD OF BUSINESS 41
FEIFFER ..... 63
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George St., Sydney
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521: Phone 27-5971
Melbourne: Phone MF 3341. Brisbane: Phone
B 2691. Adelaide: Phone W 4121-3
Vol. 84
No. 4310


National
Notebook
The Power and the Glory
T ast Sunday night’s sensitive ABC tele-
vision production of Graham Greene’s
excellent novel “The Power And The
Glory”, reminded us of a schoolmaster
in NSW who set the book as part of a
supplementary reading list for fourth-
year students earlier this year.
Apparently the Department of Educa-
tion later recommended to the school
concerned that the book should be with-
drawn. The basis of the “recommenda-
tion” was an objection to the book
brought forward by a mother of one of
the pupils.
The novel’s hero, it may be recalled,
was a Mexican priest subject to all the
frailties of the flesh. He was a cow'ard
and a drunkard. He had a mistress and
an illegitimate daughter. He was a failure
both as a man and a priest. But he clung
obstinately to the one thing he had in
abundance his unshakable sense of
faith. The specific objection the parent
raised to the book? That somehow for a
priest to have illicit relations was “sex” in
a very nasty sense.
Jimmy's
TtMMY Watson's, Melbourne’s famous
** wine establishment, closed down last
Saturday but, fortunately, only for a
fortnight. Jimmy’s, with its wide choice
of South Australian and Victorian wines
and its cook-it-yourself food service, was
an institution unique in Australia, but
under Victoria's licensing laws it was
just another wineshop. Recent legislation
has compelled wineshops to convert
themselves into licensed restaurants and
in the case of Jimmy’s this has meant
major structural alterations.
The fact that these have been planned
by Mr Robin Boyd is reassuring to those
who feared that the character of Jimmy's
would be another victim of the wrecker’s
hammer, egged on by the law. Jimmy’s
was far from elegant and when crowded
could be downright uncomfortable.
Tracking down a friend there could be
like searching a maze, but people liked
it that way. Its time-stained drabness
was a sturdy rebuke to the glittering es-
pressos and the aseptic tiled pubs, but
was also a reminder that it was the wine
and the company that really mattered.
Mr Boyd knows all this and realises that
his work will be looked at by some
very critical eyes.
Jimmy himself died suddenly early this
year and the business is now carried on
by his widow and his son Allan. A few
days before the temporary closing the
Jimmy Watson Memorial Trophy was
awarded for the first time at the Royal
Melbourne Show wine-judging. This was
the tribute to Jimmy decided on by his
countless friends —customers who raised
over £5OO to set up the trophy. It was
won by Stony fells with a claret type,
1961 vintage, from South Australia, and
the judges noted ‘‘keen competition in
placed wines in a class of many promis-
ing wines.”
Jimmy's will reopen on October 2,
operating from a temporary bar until the
reconstruction is finished late this year.
Although last Saturday was only an
revoir and not goodbye, it was to the hos-
pitable Allan as good a reason as any
for providing drinks on the house.
The Academic Bye
TAr G. A. Wilkes says he has “no idea”
why they appointed him to the chair
of Australian Literature at Sydney Uni-
versity, but he has some very positive
views on Australian literature and the
way it should be studied. These views
may conflict with those of some of Aus-
tralia's most noted critics.
“Academic study,” he told us, “should
present Australian literature in the con-
text of other literature. We must apply
the same standards to it as we would
apply to other literature. The idea that
Australian literature is good when it gives
an accurate picture of Australian society,
and bad when it does not, is, to my mind,
false.”
Dr Wilkes said he did not think the
creation of a Chair of Australian Litera-
ture might mean the study of certain
authors at the expense of others, leading
to a biased outlook on Australian litera-
ture as a whole. “The influence of aca-
demics is not nearly so great as some
people imagine,” he said.
Dr Wilkes said that the main thing
he wished to encourage was post-grad-
uate research, especially in 19th century
Australian literature. “Our conclusions
about the authors of this period are very
tenuous indeed,” he said. “Much re-
search could be done on the balladists,
for instance.”
A Theatre of One's Own
Tn that sudden, pleasing way which is
A the mode of action at University of
NSW, the National Institute of Dramatic
Art has flowered into a fine new stage
of growth with their new, very own, Old
Tote Theatre.
Also recently finished NIDA House,
the handsomely refurbished old building
which holds all NIDA’s offices, and the
Old Tote itself—now converted to dance
studios, rehearsal rooms, and special
purpose study areas.
These three buildings originally had a
functional connection when the site was
a racecourse, and the relation of the
three main units, disposed around an
area of land of most handsome pro-
portions (even if cluttered at present
with the debris of building operations)
gives to this NIDA nucleus a warm
togetherness. Somehow, NIDA now
seems to be most tangible and real. One
can believe that the coming year will be
an impressive period for the Institute.
The new theatre, austere and small,
seating a little under 200. has a form
new to Sydney, though it will be familiar
enough to those who have studied their
theatre history. Between stage and
auditorium there is only a minimum
break, and no proscenium. The stage
shares the same walls and ceiling as the
auditorium, so that the flow between
actor and audience will be excitingly
free and intimate.
Let us hope that the slight effort
needed to get to the new theatre will
deter no one when the small, gallant
professional company opens in Tanuarv
"Testing is necessary to safeguard
the world's future


with Chekhov’s “The Cherry Orchard”.
Sophie Stewart and Ellis Irving are the
only actors so far named for the com-
pany. Producers will be Robert Quentin
and Tom Brown.
The Turn of the Spiral
jpAßKiNson would be interested in the
rumblings which have swiftly fol-
lowed the Tasmanian Public Service Tri-
bunal’s generosity in increasing the salar-
ies of professional engineers. The deter-
mination has had the effect of putting
the deputy director of Public Works
higher on the salary scale than his
director.
“This will surely put the cat among
the canaries,” the Public Service Asso-
ciation journal, “Service,” comments.
The director of Public Works must
now be granted a few hundred more to
preserve his status, and that will upset
the carefully graded salary relations of
all departmental heads. A revision will
raise the perennial grumble that the
Minister is getting less than his depart-
mental head. Rectify that, and all mem-
bers of Parliament will be in line for a
rise. But by then the 1964 elections will
be approaching and it may be necessary
to call a halt.
Russian Smokescreen
HThe first shipment of Soviet “Sputniks”
A cigarettes are on sale in Sydney.
These Russian cigarettes, with a blue
label showing a Soviet spacecraft, are
retailing at 2s. 3d. for a packet of 10, and
are marketed through New World Book-
sellers, a branch of the Communist-
owned Australian company, Current
Book Distributors. A salesgirl at the New
World booksellers claimed that the aver-
age weekly turnover for Russian cigar-
ettes is £ 150 a week.
The idea of selling Soviet cigarettes
through New World Booksellers and not
through Current Book Distributors is in
itself a smart bit of consumer psychology.
Migrants born in the Soviet Union and
other East European countries feel an
almost pathological aversion to Commun-
ism and few venture into the Current
Book Distributors bookshop. But quite
a few drop into New World booksellers to
buy cheap, well-printed Russian, Polish
and Hungarian books and magazines, and
apparently few realise that the shop is
owned body and soul by comrades from
Current Book Distributors.
locking the Commission
T ast week the Post Office Royal Com-
mission in Melbourne struck a snag
when it was unable to contact a former
jockey, Mr Jack Dow, for whom it had
a su'b-poena waiting. The missing Mr
Dow, the commission was told, is a rock-
ing-horse manufacturer. When that un-
likely occupation was mentioned you
could hear the horse-laughs.
But odd to say, Mr Dow, having hung
up his silks and saddle, really is a rock-
ing-horse manufacturer. What’s more, he
has an ideal location for his rocking-
horse factory—in Flemington (and
not too far from Moonee Valley, either).
Sceptics who visited his establishment
saw for themselves a dozen coin-operated
rocking horses, exactly the same as found
in many Melbourne and suburban retail
premises. One of Mr Dow’s two em-
ployees said hundreds were in use in Vic-
torian shops and referred to them as
“child-pleasers.”
Do they Deserve Subsidies?
tpHE article on “little” magazines (page
12 this issue) brought back to our
mind a trifling incident during the recent
seminar in Sydney for “little” magazine
editors and writers.
While the editor of the American
“Partisan Review,” William Phillips, was
speaking, a note was written by one of
his audience. It passed along several
hands, each person opening it, perusing
the contents and regretfully shaking his
head before passing it on. It eventually
came to rest with a member of The Bul-
letin staff who found it read: “What does
chi chi mean?” The writer of the note
was the editor of “Overland.”
Side Effect
/\ne important effect of the NSW
Catholic hierarchy’s petition pre-
sented to Mr Heffron last week by Car-
dinal Gilroy is that the Catholic bishops
have now virtually strangled at birth the
Australian Association for Educational
Freedom. This was the laymen’s Asso-
ciation which arose out of the Goulburn
crisis and looked like taking the initia-
tive from the Bishops in the whole State
Aid controversy. That was, of course,
before the Cardinal acted.
Tanner
by increasing the
Nuclear Deterrent
so as to make War not only
unthinkable
but unnecessary."


THIS AUSTRALIA
WHITE MAN, BLACK WOMAN
THE LAZAR CASE
An appeal to Rumania against
the "Northern Territory dictatorship“
JUDGE BRIDGE
Contrary to principles
T\arwin pork butcher Victor Liviu
Lazar last week appealed to Com-
munist Rumania for help against “the
Northern Territory dictatorship”. He
also got off a stiff note to Immigration
Minister Downer, asking him to rescind
his Australian citizenship.
Lazar was caught in a situation as old
as the Territory itself. He was convicted
of having had intercourse- with the wife
of an aboriginal named Tommy in re-
turn for three bottles of beer at remote
Maningreda settlement in Arnhem Land.
The Supreme Court in Darwin last week
dismissed his appeal and ordered him to
give himself up within 14 days to serve
four months at Fannie Bay Gaol.
Lazar, 38, a tub-shaped, 15-stone
Rumanian migrant, is a well-known
character in the Top End. He has a
small pig farm near Darwin, but often
hires out on bush jobs, as a cook or
general roustabout. He migrated to Aus-
tralia 13 years ago, has a wife and three
children, and was naturalised in 1960.
He is known as the fastest pig killer and
dresser in the Northern Territory. At
NEXT WEEK'S ISSUE
® QUEENSLAND’S LABOR
PARTY KEY TO CAN-
BERRA (Cover Story)
$ JOHN PRINGLE ON AUS-
TRALIAN WRITERS IN
LONDON
$ BOADICEA ON THE BIG
SELLERS
© B. A. SANT AM ARIA ON
LORD CASEY
his peak a few years ago he once but-
chered 11 pigs and had the lot hanging
up dressed within 55 minutes.
Lazar has other claims to renown. At
home in Rumania he was a champion
mile runner; he challenged unsuccessfully
early this year for the Northern Terri-
tory heavyweight boxing championship;
he makes continental sausages which are
the delight of Alec Fong at the Vic.
Hotel, and other great Darwin eaters,
and he would be one of the few men
in the world who has served in three
armies (Rumanian, German and Ameri-
can).
Lazar denies that the offence, allegedly
committed at Maningreda in July, ever
took place. He claims Tommy and his
wife carried a grudge ever since he
“booted them off” his Darwin farm some
time before, and that they “framed” him.
In any case, he contends, the word of
two non-citizens should not have been
taken against his own and that of seve-
ral witnesses.
During the original Police Court hear-
ing Tommy said Lazar had handed him
three bottles of beer, then taken his
(Tommy’s) wife Mary into the bush.
Lazar denied this. And witnesses flown
in from Maningreda corroborated his
claim that he was elsewhere at the time
the offence was said to have been com-
mitted.
During the hearing:
• Defence counsel John (“Tiger”)
Lyons accused a policeman of “lies and
perjury” and of fabricating a statement
Lazar was said to have made.
• The police prosecutor claimed
Lazar “didn’t like natives”.
® The lubra, Mary, admitted she and
Tommy had been kicked off Lazar’s Dar-
win property and did not like him.
• Tommy told the court he would
trade his wife for one bottle of beer. In
convicting Lazar, Mr Leader, SM, re-
jected Mr. Lyons’ claim that the natives
had concocted their story as a means of
revenge.
In the Supreme Court last week Judge
Bridge upheld the conviction and threw
out Lazar’s appeal. He said that in his
view Mr Leader had a finding clearly
open to him “on the evidence of wit-
nesses whose demeanour as to weight
and credence he had an opportunity to
observe closely”. To disregard this find-
ing would be contrary to principles laid
down over and over again, he said.
Lazar was hopping mad when he left
the Supreme Court. He wrote to Mr
Downer saying he did not want to be an
Australian any more and asking that his
citizenship be rescinded. He told the
Minister he had been wrongly charged
and that his conviction was based solely
on the word of a ward, while he had
five Australian citizens to support his
claim of innocence. He also said that
his case was not an isolated one. White
people’s stories often were treated con-
temptuously, while “black people’s
stories are given every credence”.
He then cabled Rumanian President
Gheorghiu Dej, asking for £5OOO to fin-
ance appeals to the High Court and, if
necessary, the Privy Council. “I told
him I have been convicted on the evi-
dence of people who have no citizen-
ship”, Lazar said. Soon after he wired
Gheorghiu Dej, Lazar claimed, a Darwin
Communist approached him. “I tell this
man I am not interested in parties and
politics. But I hope Rumania will take
this up as a political matter. The North-
ern Territory is as big a dictatorship as
Germany and Russia ever were.”
Whatever the merits or demerits of
Lazar’s case it has again brought out in-
to the open one of the most discrimina-
tory of the Territory’s native laws. The
official policy is “assimilation”. Yet a
white man associating with an aboriginal
woman —-or even found near a native
camp after sunset —is committing a crimi-
nal offence and can be fined or gaoled
for it. A white girl of 18, who cannot
vote, can sleep with whoever she chooses.
A native woman of 21, legally entitled
to vote in Federal and Legislative Coun-
cil elections, cannot. The position is
aggravated by the high preponderance of
males in the Territory’s population, and
by the generally amoral standards of
aborigines.
The idea of rapacious white men


seducing innocent bush maidens is not a
true one. There is hardly an aboriginal
girl in the Territory who hasn’t been
accustomed to men from the age of
puberty. The natives have their own set
of morals, under which a woman is a
chattel. If you want her you go to her
husband first. If he says “yes” (and
Tommy’s stated price was one bottle of
beer), then you have a willing partner
for the night.
Our strange attitude was highlighted
by an incident at school two days after
Lazar’s appeal failed, when a boy jibed
at one of Lazar’s sons. The one doing
the jeering was himself a half-caste
aboriginal.
KEITH WILLEY
ON THE FRINGE
RADICAL RIGHT
Behind the scenes in NSW?
LAW
SOFT ON BASHERS
Bolte v. the Bar Council
COMMISSIONER
PORTER
More power, please
ITarried almost daily by the anti-hang-
ing movement and deeply concerned
at the incidence of bashings and hooli-
ganism, Victoria’s Premier Mr Bolte
found himself embroiled last week in a
dispute with the state’s Bar Council. The
issue was Mr Bolte’s complaint that the
courts were being too lenient towards
hooligans—more specifically, towards six
youths who had wrecked a holiday house
at Lang Lang.
The six, aged between 18 and 21, had
been described by Judge Cussen as “a
pack of hooligans” at their trial in Gene-
ral Sessions. Everything in the house,
barring the ceiling, had been damaged,
Judge Cussen said. Fibro cement walls
were kicked in, furniture thrown through
windows until not a pane was intact.
The unfortunate owner of the house was
faced with repairs in the vicinity of <£7oo
to £lOOO. Judge Cussen gave one youth
a four-year sentence and the other five
three years each.
In the Court of Criminal Appeal the
sentences were cut back, in most cases
by half. Mr Bolte then cited this as
proof that the courts were being too
lenient towards hooligans. His Govern-
ment, he pointed out, had shown by its
legislation an intention to be tough on
hooliganism, but the courts were not
following the spirit of the law. Sen-
tences were either too light, or were re-
duced on appeal.
Mr Bolte was commenting at the
time on a report of the Police Commis-
sioner, Mr Porter, which had just been
tabled in Parliament. Mr Porter, also
gravely concerned at the incidence of
bashings and hooliganism, had suggested
that the police should be empowered to
take preventive action against gangs of
youths considered likely to engage in
these offences. The Country Party leader,
Sir Herbert Hyland, seconded Mr Bolte’s
observations.
The Bar Council lost little time in
issuing a strong reply to Mr Bolte and
Sir Herbert. “Because judges are un-
able to make replies to charges of mis-
placed leniency, we feel it is incumbent
on us to correct in the minds of the pub-
lic any misapprehension which may have
been created by the statements of Mr
Bolte and Sir Herbert Hyland,” it said.
Parliament had given every convicted
person the right to appeal against his
sentence and no doubt felt that all rele-
vant matters would be looked at care-
fully by the three Appeal Judges, “ex-
perienced and erudite”. If parliamen-
tarians felt that the judges were not ap-
plying the law in the spirit it was meant,
their proper course was to make laws in
such explicit terms as to leave no doubt
about the matter.
“Parliament may prescribe the mini-
mum sentence for any offence”, the Bar
pointed out, though it generally did not
do so. Sentences which gave offenders
a feeling of hopelessness and injustice
could make them enemies of society and
lessen the chances of their reformation.
Critics of lenient sentences should re-
member that.
Mr Bolte returned to the debate by
hinting that Parliament might need to
have “second thoughts” on the question
of introducing minimum sentences for
crimes of violence. “I still stick to the
view that courts are too lenient in many
cases, particularly where they involve
brutal bashings and hooliganism.”
The Bar Council’s timing of its reply,
Mr Bolte claimed, could not have been
worse, coming as it did “after a week-
end of vicious, violent crime.”
\ ustralia comes third in the world for
the number of extreme right-wing
groups it maintains according to the
world authority on these matters, the
“First National Directory of Rightist
Groups, Publications and Some Individ-
uals in the United States (and some
Foreign Countries)”, the fourth edition
of which has just appeared.
Australia has 19 entries in the “Direc-
tory”, miles behind USA with 1996 list-
ings, but only a little after England, with
22, and just in front of Germany, with
17.
The “Directory” is compiled by the
Alert Americans Association. But they’re
not very alert about their facts on Aus-
tralia.
The Australian list includes: Associa-
tion of Hungarians in Australia; Austra-
lian Knight Ku Klux Klan; Australian
National Party; Australian Party; Aus-
tralian Unity Movement; Christian
United Movement; Democratic Labor
Party; Estonian Anti-Communist
Centre; Hungarian Anti-Bolshevist
Centre; Industrial News Service; “Intelli-
gence Survey”; “The Kingdom Herald”;
Nationalist Workers’ Party; People’s
Union; Russian Anti-Communist Centre;
Social Credit Movement of NSW; South
Moluccan Anti-Communist Committee;
“Twenty First Century”; and Wykeham
Foundation.
Seventeen of these bodies are given
NSW mostly Sydney addresses,
the exceptions being “Intelligence Survey”
Melbourne, and Wykeham Foundation,
Qld. So it seems that Sydney, at any
rate, is honeycombed with extreme right-
wingers. But all is not plain sailing:
Heaven knows why the late Harry Hoot-
on’s “Twenty First Century” got on the
list and the DLP certainly does not fit
into this company. The Australian Ku
Klux Klan, the Australian National Party,
and the Nationalist Workers’ Party are,
we are told, identical and run by one man
. . . GRAHAM ROYCE. Frank Browne
has a double-entry: His Australian Party
never got off the ground and is dead, and
his Industrial News Service publishes a
rather dull and over-priced scandal sheet
“Things I Hear” which does not seem
to have much to do with the extreme
right. The South Moluccans faded away
a long while ago. We checked, at random,
on two other addresses and could not
find the right-wingers there. Some of the
entries, of course, are genuine and active.
De Louth’s “Wykeham Foundation” at
Innisplain is the chief distributor of the
worst type of anti-Semitic muck in Aus-


tralia, and, though small, is not to be
laughed at. The much more harmless
“People’s Elnion” also exists and, instead
of reading the future of the world from
tea leaves or the Great Pyramid does
so from a “secret” master plan by Lenin.
On the other hand what is, relatively
speaking, Australia’s largest of the ex-
treme-right wing bodies, Eric Butler’s
“League of Rights” in Melbourne, with
branches in other States, is not listed at
all . . . though it comes in by the back-
door since it was and maybe still is the
Australian distributor of an English news-
letter, “Intelligence Survey”, here listed
as an Australian show,
Even if all the other groups amount
to more than a couple of men, they
haven’t yet made sufficient impact to
excite anyone’s curiosity. This, on one
view of the extreme right, of course
would merely show that they’re working
underground and are pulling the strings
behind the scenes in NSW.
ALP
CLEANING UP REIDTOWN
The crazy, mixed-up branch
T ast weekend, the New South Wales
State Executive of the ALP finally
got around to taking drastic steps to end
the prolonged Reidtown affair. (See
Bulletin, September 1). Acting on
the none-too-new charges of irregulari-
ties in the branch, the Executive wielded
the axe left, right and centre, expelling
president (Alderman Bill Farrell), secre-
tary (Mrs Farrell) and former returning
officer and instigator of the charges (Mr
William Pollock).
The expulsions bring to an end an
era in the powerful Labor State elector-
ate of Wollongong-Kembla. By far the
strongest branch in the electorate, with
some 70 members, the Reidtown branch
has dominated Labor politics in the area
with its largely pro-left voting bloc. It
also has been the nucleus of several con-
troversies during the past few years.
Only two years ago the branch’s
charter was withdrawn following an in-
vestigation of the branch’s books and
allegations of irregularities. The charges
at that time—very similar to the recent
claims —and the withdrawal of the
charter were all that kept the Federal
member for Cunningham (Mr V. Kear-
ney) in office. If the large number of
leftist Reidtown members had been able
to vote in the Federal pre-selection ballot
it would have meant the end of Mr
Kearney.
But the State Executive’s action on
that occasion was half-hearted and the
branch soon regained its charter, and,
apparently, continued to operate as it
had previously. Then followed the
wrangling, fanned by the right-wingers
in the electorate. After walking out of
the branch’s annual meeting several
months ago Pollock who just before
had laid charges of disruptive tactics
against shop assistants’ branch secretary
Mr Barry Egan for accusing the branch
of exactly the same thing decided to
spill the beans. Pollock revived all the
old allegations of Reidtown executives
taking the attendance book to the homes
of members for them to sign as if they
were present at meetings and the sign-
ing-on of members outside branch meet-
ings.
At the first hearing, several weeks ago,
the Executive threw out Pollock’s
charges. But such a hue and cry followed
that it was spurred into action once more.
Re-opening the hearing, the State Execu-
tive sent the Credentials Committee to
Wollongong early last week. In the se-
clusion of the 50-year-old Miners’ Hall,
currently partly-leased by “Current Book
Distributors”, the Credentials Committee
carried out a full enquiry, inviting “all
interested persons” to attend.
Finally fed-up with the affairs of this
crazy, mixed-up branch the State Execu-
tive, acting on the recommendations of
its Credentials Committee, “axed” the
three main causes of the trouble. It found
the charges proved and, as, in bringing to
notice the allegations, he had implicated
himself, Pollock, too, received the sharp
edge of the blade. In addition the Execu-
tive brought down a five-page report and
virtually suspended the Reidtown branch.
The Executive cancelled the next meet-
ing of the branch and will summon a
special meeting of the branch to be con-
ducted by Party officers, who will offi-
ciate at fresh branch elections.
It appears now that the breaking of
the branch will be made complete by
moves to split the branch in two, by the
re-formation of a branch in neighboring
Balgownie.
The State Executive’s action also spells
finish to Alderman Farrell’s career as a
Labor representative on Wollongong City
Council. Now, completing his third term
as a Labor alderman, the former deputy
mayor, seems unlikely to gain election
as an independent. With independent
aldermen Reg Birch and John Parker
holding a strong grip on the non-Labor
vote in Ward Two, all that remains to be
seen in which cf the two remaining ALP
pre-selection candidates—Doug Porter
(vice-president of Reidtown) or Tom
Ward (Corrimal) will gain pre-selec-
tion.
But perhaps one of the most interest-
ing sidelights to the end of rhe Reidtown
Affair will be whether, as fellow ex-
members of the ALP, the Farrells and
Pollock will continue their feud which
has been providing free light entertain-
ment for neighbors in Elizabeth Street,
Reidtown in which thoroughfare
barely half a dozen houses separate the
two families.
TREVOR MURRELL
HOW TO GET ON IN MELBOURNE AND ADELAIDE
JiuiletCn
September 23, 1882
\T° one can land from any West Aus-
11 tralian port at Adelaide or Mel-
bourne without a “ticket-of-leave”
certifying that the possessor is not,
and never has been, a convicted per-
son. Without this voucher, arrest is
certain until the WA authorities are
communicated with. Some time back
the son of the resident magistrate at
Albany proceeded to Melbourne with-
out a ticket, not thinking it necessary,
as his father was the officer who is-
sued them. On arriving at the port,
he was, however, duly “collared” and
kept in durance vile until his father
certified that his well-beloved son wore
“the white flower of a blameless life!”
Walker, the Melbourne lec-
A turer who has recanted Spiritual-
ism, and has been elected President of
the Australian Secularists, admits lots
of humbugging, but accuses spiritual-
ists generally of “putting on the
gloss.” What made Thomas mad was
that the Melbourne spiritualists said,
in effect, that though he was eloquent
when “possessed”, he was an arrant
numbskull when not in a trance. He
sa y s . that spiritualists, in fostering
mediums, place a premium on dis-
honesty. The qualifications of a me-
dium are:— Ist. Excessive desire to
please. 2nd. Love of notoriety. 3rd.
More or less mental ability, but very
little of ability. Many times he had
wept salt tears on his pillow at night,
because of the “painfulness of his
position,” and in his new line he feels
he is “more true to himself.” (!!)


Around Melbourne
£7000 FOR "DIVINELY DRESSED LADIES"
'Oemarkable things are happening
this year with the Melbourne Cup
and some of us old racing die-hards are
worried. The Cup is to be turned into
a sort of Moomba, titled the “Carnival
of Fashions, Favorites and Flowers.”
Perhaps another aboriginal name
would have helped but it wasn’t so
easy to find something that would
cover—“ Let’s get together to have fun
and dress divinely.” The city build-
ings will be floodlit, there will be lights
in the trees of Collins Street, public
Floral displays, but here’s the point
there will be £7OOO in prizes for the
most divinely dressed ladies. The Tun-
ing of 26 horses might only be
incidental.
The ladies will be judged in three
sections. Section A for the lady whose
ensemble —hat, bag, shoes, gloves,
frock or suit, cost no more than £3O.
Section B for the lady whose ensemble
costs no more than £5O and C for the
lady with the most elegant hat. The
judges will be members of the clothing
industry, Miss Tania Verstak and the
brand new Miss Australia.
Putting it a little crudely the VRC
for the past 100 years has known dam-
ned well that more money is made out
of what goes on the backs of ladies
than on the backs of horses, so at last
they have decided to do something
about it. So the VRC this time has
pulled in the fashion industry to give
things a kick along.
The prizes are coming from helpful
people like Bri-Nylon, Hickory,
Cyclax, the Millinery Research Group,
Prestige, TAA, the Ford Motor Com-
pany and Dennis Hotels. Now why
has all this come about? The answer’s
simple. Last year Victorian Racing
attendances dropped by 12i per cent.
For the centenary year 225,000 people
went to the four-day Cup carnival, but
last year attendances were down to
193,000, a cruel blow in a town which
loves its racing to such a degree that
it is one of the few places in the
world that actually gives a public holi-
day for a horse race.
The first inkling we had of all this
was when the Tourist Development
Authority of Victoria produced a pos-
ter which was to go all over the world
with the slogan “See You At The Mel-
bourne Cup.” It showed a head-on
picture of Geoff Lane, whip, goggles
and all, in the hell-for-leather riding
position. It was a darned good poster,
but there was just one odd thing about
it, Mr Lane had no horse underneath
him. Some members of the VRC com-
mittee, who were inclined to the view
that horses were the main actors in
the Cup, were startled.
The Melbourne “Herald” then un-
kindly reproduced another picture
taken from a double page spread in the
“Saturday Evening Post” of October
14, 1961. It showed a picture of the
American jockey Johnny Sellers
crouched in exactly the same pose. He
too was wearing goggles, his mouth
was open in the same way as Geoff
Lane and he too was riding without a
horse. The only difference was that
his whip was in the other hand. The
Tourist Development Authority stres-
sed that it was all an unfortunate co-
incidence.
T'he VRC announced the new carni-
A val with the finest Press party of
the season. Sir Chester Manifold, who
retired as Chairman of the VRC was
not there. He is still a member of the
committee, but we wondered if he was
an enthusiast for Carnivals of Fash-
ions, Flowers and Favorites. Sir
Chester is the undoubted aristocrat of
aristocrats of the Western District.
Indeed he looks a little like the Duke
of Norfolk and lives at his property of
Talindert near Camperdown in a blue-
stone mansion of 35 rooms.
However, the new chairman was
there, Ross Grey-Smith. He is a soli-
citor and the Grey-Smiths are fine in
their own right. His grandfather, Frank
Grey-Smith, was one of the most
famous of Melbourne Cricket Club
presidents, when the MCG ran all
cricket in Australia, and no nonsense.
There was a galaxy of stars, including
all the top representatives of fashion,
tourism, and catering, and even the
premier, Mr Bolte. Mr Sol Fromer
and Mr Alf Berliner were also there to
represent the bookmakers. This indeed
was a new outlook. It was the first
time bookmkaers had ever been ad-
mitted to the VRC committee room.
Then there were speeches. How
there were speeches! Were there eight
or 10? Speeches always seem a little
longer when they don’t feed you until
they’re all over. Ross Grey-Smith
made a speech, Leo Curtis made a
speech on behalf of the retail traders.
Fred Gilder, another grazier, and pub-
licity representative on the committee
made a speech. There was one mem-
orable moment when he showed us
a team of beautiful models, dressed in
the glories of sample £3O and £5O
ensembles. He said: “There are the
£3O girls and there are the £5O
girls.”
Nan Sanders of the Wool Bureau
made a speech stressing the advan-
tages of wool during the carnival, but
don’t think she had it all on her own,
because Miss Peggy Tellick of British
Nylon Spinners was there too. There
was a prepared speech from a gentle-
man of the clothing industry who used
the colorful phrase “If everybody gets
together it should snowball into a
morass.” And Mr Bolte made a
speech.
At this stage he did not men-
tion one grim little secret he had up
his sleeve. Here was a gathering de-
signed to give the economy a badly
needed boost through racing but in a
few days he was to announce in the
State budget that amusement tax would
be lifted on all forms of entertainment
except racing and trotting. This meant
that one could watch everything from
footy to car racing without paying tax,
but the racing of horses was different.
Perhaps it could be argued that there
was nothing amusing about racing.
After the speeches there was cray-
fish, chicken and almost unlimited sup-
plies of champagne. It was a marvel-
lous party. It went on from 5.30 p.m.
until after 10 p.m. and if this was an
indication of the Carnival it should
be a beauty. There was a fine mellow-
ing. For example, when one of the
racing writers was introduced to the
wife of an important VRC man, he
said: “Oh, but I thought you were one
of the mannequins.”
So you see it is all under way. The
Tourist Development Authority is
sending out 5000 Melbourne Mel-
bourne Cup kits to stores and fashion
houses in all States. The VRC is lifting
its four-day meeting prizemoney from
£91,000 to £lOO,OOO. Then the win-
ner of the £3O Section A will win a
Ford car and the winner of £5O Section
B will win a return trip to England for
two aboard the “Brittany” worth
£l4OO. With a bit of luck she will
be able to wear her ensemble at Royal
Ascot.
BATMAN


HOSPITALS
MORE CAMPBELL TOWN
GHOSTS
W. C. HODGMAN
Awkward
"No departmental inquiry will
ever reveal the facts"
T et people who complain about hos-
pitals on the mainland consider the
Tasmanian hospital at Campbell Town,
in the Midlands. Last week, for example,
the local council decided to ask the
Director-General of Health Services, Dr
John Edis, about the hospital’s operating
theatre built in 1959 at a cost of £9962
and never used. Local doctors told the
council that the theatre was not used
because there was no surgical staff. All
patients requiring surgery were sent to
Launceston or Hobart. No one was
uncivil enough to point out that there
was no surgical staff in 1959, and that
there had never been any prospect of
getting any.
While the council was having its say,
Independent Liberal W. C. Hodgman,
now firmly established as the leading
asker of awkward questions, was telling
the House of Assembly about con-
ditions at Lachlan Park Mental Hospital.
It seemed incredible, he said, that a
Government in 1962 could permit the
disgusting and deplorable conditions in
which the patients lived. While one
dilapidated old firetrap housed 83 men,
and in another ward the staff ran busily
with buckets to catch the water which
poured through the leaking roof, a
£91,000 building had stood unoccupied
for 12 months. This new ward, Mr
Hodgman said, was completed last Sep-
tember, but because (as it was stated)
“they were still having trouble with the
heating installations” it remained un-
used. Why, he asked pertinently, was
heating required during the long, mild
summer months?
Next day the Government announced
that it had appointed the Victorian
Director of Mental Hygiene, Dr E.
Cunningham Dax, to investigate con-
ditions at Lachlan Park. The Public
Service Commissioner, Mr B. O. Plum-
mer, would meanwhile enquire into
recent allegations of misconduct by
patients and staff laxity in allowing
inmates to get alcohol and absent them-
selves without permission.
This was not good enough for Mr
Hodgman. No departmental enquiry, he
said, would reveal the situation to the
public. He therefore sought the censure
of the Government and the appoint-
ment of a commission to investigate the
charges of incompetence and neglect.
Mr Hodgman only a fortnight pre-
viously had presented the report of the
Committee of Public Accounts on grants
to the Mersey Hospital Group. This
committee, under his ch"irmanship, had
found the grandfather of all Health De-
partment white elephants at Devonport,
where around £400,000 was spent on
a grandiose outpatients’ department
which the committee said, should be
closed forthwith.
To serve Devonport, the outpatients’
department block was built in the town,
but dissociated from its parent hospital,
built for political purposes at Latrobe,
its elaborate and expensive facilities were
relatively useless.
Simultaneously, the committee dis-
covered, a 22-bed maternity section is
being laboriously preserved at Latrobe,
where the daily average of obstetrical
patients is as low as 1.58. This female
white elephant, the committee said,
should forthwith be put out of its
misery.
The accountants’ dry columns sum-
marised the cost of playing politics in
health services. Whereas the daily cost
of a public hospital patient was £6.69
in Hobart, £7.48 in Launceston and
£7.14 in Burnie (where the population
is much the same as in Devonport), the
Mersey Group figure was £9.22.
HOUSES
TOO MUCH MONEY IN BANKS
A new field for investment
A part from War Service homes there
are four ways to buy a house in
NSW. People with no money are look-
ed after, in due course, by the Housing
Commission. People with a little money
who want to buy a modest house are
looked after by the Tc nrnating Building
Societies which are financed by the banks,
insurance companies and the Common-
wealth/State Housing Fune. More
substantial people who want a costly
house look to the insurance companies,
or formerly to the banks. But people
with some money who want to buy a
middle range house look to the Per-
manent Building Societies which are fin-
anced by public investment. It is these
people in the over-all home-buying
scene who are worse off: in NSW the
Permanent Societies only have about
£26.7 million to do business with.
This is not the case in all countries.
In the United Kingdom the permanent
building societies have assets worth
£3500 million and are one of the main
fields for public investment.
It was this that led to the formation
of a new Association of Permanent
Building Societies at the recent confer-
ence in Albury of the 25-year-old Associ-
ation of Co-Operative Building Societies
of NSW. The old Association is made
up mainly of the Terminating Societies
which raise their money from banks,
insurance companies, and the Common-
wealth/State Housing Fund. The Per-
manent Societies which have to raise
money from th, public decided they
would do better wi ' separate Associ-
ation (though they have the backing
of the old Association). By big advertis-
ing they hope to increase their present
assets of barely £27 million to several
hundreds of millions, comparable to the
assets of the HP companies.
Their main appeal lo private investors
in the advertising campaigns will be that
although they only pay 6 p.c. interest,
this is better than Government Bonds and
Savings Banks interest, and is far safer
than the larger interest that is paid (if
at all) by specul investments. No
building society in the history of the
movement has ever shown a loss and the
security on the investment will be not
land (as in Land Trusts) but homes.
The new Association is not yet regi-
stered and its office staff is not yet
appointed. It has, however, appointed
a secretary, Mr Hardy McLean, who
was for 21 years in the office of the
Registrar of Co-operative Societies and
for the past two years Secretary of the
Australian legion group of Building
Societies. When properly organised his
first job will be to persuade the NSW
Government to grant Permanent Societies
trustee status which would then make
investment in them as gilt-edged as in
Government Bonds and make possible the
investment in them of trust funds. He


COONAWARRA ESTATE*
CLARET
fright
lMftK9£
At Coonawarra Estate all
our skills are devoted
exclusively to vintaging
table wine. To achieve
distinctive quality we
have retained many of
the old hand methods
and each vintage is indi-
vidually made to give of
its best.
* “Estate" (as the word “Chateau" in France)
is used to distinguish this claret as being the
genuine product of the winegrower’s own
vineyard.
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors:
S. WYNN & CO. PTY. LTD.
CI3NR
also hopes to get a Federal insurance
corporation to guarantee investments in
Permanent Societies.
At the recent Albury conference
the NSW Minister for Housing and Co-
operative Societies, Mr A. Landa said:
“Far too much of our money is today
tied up in savings banks and other fin-
ancial institutions which are not paying
very good interest rates and which are
making a rather disappointing effort in
the field of housing finance.” If the
Permanent Societies, he said, went out
and sold themselves and got people to
invest in them, the position could change
radically and the Societies could have
gigantic assets comparable to their
counterparts in the United Kingdom.
WEST NEW GUINEA
AMNESTY
No friction
T ast Monday night in Sydney the Aus-
tralian branch of Amnesty a
worldwide organisation supporting asy-
lum for nationals in genuine political
disagreement with the government of
their country —resolved in part:
“2. For submission to the Minister
for External Affairs of the Common-
wealth of Australia and the Foreign
Minister of the Republic of Indonesia.
“In order to avoid the development
of international friction and personal
hardship arising out of the imminent
political changes on the island of New
Guinea, both the Indonesian and Aus-
tralian Governments are entreated to
agree between themselves, and make the
necessary administrative arrangements to
implement the following provisions:
“From the first of October, 1962, to
the 31st day of May, 1965, all persons,
who have been residents of the island
of New Guinea since 1959, shall be free
without restriction, to transfer their per-
manent residence from West Irian to
Papua or the Trust Territory of New
Guinea, or from Papua and New Guinea
to West Irian, unless such person be
personally objectionable to the govern-
ment of the territory to which they de-
sire to move; provided that each per-
son availing him or herself of this op-
tion must officially undertake to become
a permanent resident of the territory of
his or her choice, to abide by the terri-
torial divisions now established and not
to seek to interfere in the internal af-
fairs of any of the other territories on
the island. This agreement shall cover
only one transfer per person and shall
in no wav prejudice the normal flow of
trade and tourists as may be agreed upon
from time to time.”
NORTH-WEST PASSAGE
GOING KIMBERLEY
A test case
Qubmissions by the WA Government
last week to National Development
Minister Spooner will be a test case of
whether the Commonwealth is prepared
to put real money into North-West
development or whether WA will be
forced into a piece-meal development
programme based on its own inadequate
finances.
North-West Minister Court put be-
fore Mr Spooner the State case for
asking the Commonwealth to accept
the full financial responsibility for the
£20,000,000 greater Ord River dam
scheme, treating it as a national pro-
ject on the same basis as the Snowy
River scheme. He also asked for long-
range indications of the Commonwealth’s
financial commitments to road and port
development in the North-West.
These submissions will go before
Federal Cabinet, and the State can count
on the support of Mr Spooner in its
claims. He is one of the few Federal
ministers who has toured WA’s North-
West personally, and he is known to be
favorably impressed with the State’s
development programme.
Despite his support, WA may have a
hard battle to persuade the Common-
wealth to accept the greater Ord scheme
on the same basis as the Snowy scheme.
It is just as big and just as imaginative,
but it has its economic critics in the
National Development department. A
survey now being made on the Ord by
the Bureau of Agricultural Economics
will throw some light on the question
of whether it is a paying proposition.
If the greater Ord scheme is accepted,
the decision will not be over-popular
with the pastoralists who have kept the
Kimberleys alive for the last 80 years
while governments have talked about its
potential. They have always claimed
that the rehabilitation of the cattle
industry ought to be the first govern-
ment responsibility in the area. The
Commonwealth’s beef-road scheme, for
which £700,000 has been allocated in
the Kimberleys this year, has done much
to allay their fears that they are being
left out of development plans, but they
are mindful of the fact that this is a
Commonwealth idea and that the State
is still committed to the big splash in
tropical agriculture.
The pastoralists have good reason for
feeling neglected. Though tropical
agriculture research has been going on
for 15 years at the Kimberley Research
Station, it has only just got around to
doing serious work on the problems of
the cattle industry. The recent dis-
covery that mineral supplements in
water supplies can bring spectacular
weight gains in cattle during the dry
season is an example of the kind of
research for which the pastoralists have
been crying out for years.
The biggest question of all is whether
the Commonwealth can afford to give
WA another big slice of development
funds from a political point of view. The
impact of the £41,000,000 rail standard-
isation programme on the last Federal
election figures in WA were gratifying,
but the reverses in Queensland proved
it is not wise to put all the development
eggs in one basket.
If the Commonwealth wants to
develop the North without offending the
big States politically, it looks as if Mr
Menzies might have to accept the idea
of a Northern Development Commission
which he rejected last year.


BOOM IN
LITTLE MAGAZINES
A Problem of Finances
By PETER KELLY
Lately the Commonwealth Literary
Fund has been receiving publicity
because in July it refused once
again to grant a subsidy to the biggest
Australian “little” magazine, “Overland”.
This time, however, there was one differ-
ence: a month after the refusal was made
public about nine Australian contempor-
ary editors of similar “little” magazines
issued a temperately worded statement
saying they felt “uneasy” about the re-
fusal.
While this was obviously “political”
pressure its significance may have passed
unnoticed: this was th’ Erst time in Aus-
tralian literary life that “little” magazine
editors had taken concerted action on
behalf of a contemporary publication and
it was the first time that so many editors
had gathered together. The occasion was
a seminar on Literary Journals and
Journals of Opinion held in Sydney late
last month.
If the Seminar proved only one thing it
did prove that the post-war “boom” in
little magazines is now a permanent fea-
ture of Australian life. And while howls
about the lack of finance, C.L.F. “mean-
ness”, and other problems occasionally
get into the dailies, the boom owes little
or nothing to Government beneficence.
“Little” magazines can mean anything
from political pamphlets to a specialised
periodical on ornithology, but the usual
sense in which the term is understood
is a non-commercial magazine devoted to
socio-cultural dr literary issues and having
a relatively low circulation of a few
thousand directed to a minority audience.
The oldest of these little magazines
which seemed as though it was folding
up last year is the literary magazine
“Southerly.” First published in 1939 by
the English Association of the University
of Sydney, its first editor was Lecturer
in English, R. G. Howarth. When
Howarth went to South Africa in early
1956, Kenneth Slessor, an Australian
poet and a journalist on the “Daily Tele-
graph,” became its second editor. Slessor
gave something of literary kick-along to
the magazine, and even managed on one
occasion to get the Prime Minister, Mr
R. G. Menzies, to rewrite the Trial Scene
from Shakespeare's “Merchant of
Venice” for its second issue of 1956 —a
scoop of sorts.
In the fuss over the C.L.F.’s refusal to
grant “Overland” a subsidy this year
“Southerly” has been the subject of hos-
tile criticism from other little magazine
editors who feel that its £250 subsidy
an issue is unjustified. Their grounds for
criticism lie in the fact that there were
no issues in 1960, three issues appeared
in 1961 and only two issues have so far
appeared this year.
Few people seem to realise that
'Southerly’s” non - appearance was
largely due to the bitter fighting which
went on for control of Angus and
Robertson during 1960. All it needed
was the firm permission of the two
Angus and Robertson’s contestants, Mr
Burns or Mr Ferguson, for the issues
to hit the streets.
Walter Stone, somewhat of a legend in
Australian literary life, took over from
ilessor this year and plans to produce
three more issues before Christmas.
Next to "Southerly” in terms ol age
is “Meanjin,” a left-liberal maga-
zine published from Melbourne Univer-
sity by its one (and only) editor Clem
Christesen.
Like Topsy, “Meanjin” has just
growed in size, circulation, and afflu-
ence. First published as “Meanjin
Papers,” it was born an eight-page poetry
magazine in Christmas 1940 with 250
copies all personally signed by its editor.
Now describing itself as “A quarterly of
Literature, Art, Discussion,” “Meanjin”
had as one of its early slogans, “Com-
bine Pleasure and Patriotism.” In its
second issue it combined poetry and
articles (12 pages) and with its fifth issue
it had a circulation of 500 still with each
copy signed by its editor. Sometime in
1945 it moved to Melbourne University
at the invitation of Sir John Medley who
invited Mr Christesen to install himself
on the campus. Shortly after, it became
a quarterly and today it is regarded as
the doyen of Australian literary journals.
An air of mystery surrounds most of
the financial operations of little maga-
zines and “Meanjin” is no exception.
However, it is the most heavily subsidised
literary magazine in Australia (some say
in the world) receiving more than £lOOO
a year from the C.L.F. It also is
generally believed to receive about
£lOOO a year from the Lockie bequest
and around £5OO from the Myer
Foundation.
It receives substantial assistance from
Melbourne University authorities by the
provision of an office, telephones, etc.
While its exact financial state will pro-
bably always remain a mystery Mr
Christesen is the only full-time literary
editor in Australia.
In an attempt to place its editor on a
firmer financial footing a move was made
in July 1960 to create a salaried fellow-
ship for Mr Christesen from the Lockie
bequest. A group of “Meanjin” sup-
porters attempted to have the following
motion passed by the Faculty of Arts at


the Melbourne University: “The Faculty
of Arts, believing that ‘Meanjin’ is of
importance in the cultural life of Aus-
tralia and that rising costs have made its
survival difficult if not impossible on its
present revenues, stands strongly behind
the Meanjin Committee request for
immediate aid and more substantial sup-
port in the future. The Faculty realises
that the University may require closer
academic co-operation in the work of
editing ‘Meanjin’ than now exists, and
is prepared to play a part in this.”
Apparently because it was evident that
the motion would not receive sufficient
support from the Faculty of Arts, the
attempt was dropped. Had it come off,
“Meanjin” financial problems would have
been solved.
Offering more than 130 pages at 10s.
a copy it is generally believed to have
a printing figure of 3000 with a real
circulation somewhere over 2500.
Is it a quarterly?
‘ Southerly” and “Meanjin”, except for
the come-and-go literary journals, vir-
tually had their own way until the 1950 s
when “Overland” grew out of the Com-
munist Party’s “Realist Writer” (nine
issues) in the Spring of 1954. When Mr
Murray-Smith broke from the Com-
munist Party in 1958 a section of the
“Realist Writer’s” group unsuccessfully
tried to gain control of “Overland” and
claimed that “Overland” was owned by
its editorial board.
Although the problem of ownership
has been settled “Overland” suffered a
set-back when the Communist Party’s
cultural front-organisation, the Austra-
lasian Book Society, hung on to “Over-
land’s” circulation list which in 1958 was
in the possession of the Society. Some-
how or other Murray-Smith managed to
regain it. His break with the Communist
Party meant a loss of about 800 in circu-
lation but he now claims a real circula-
tion of 3800, the highest for a quarterly
little magazine in Australia. With this
circulation Murray-Sm:th believes (wrong-
ly) that “Overland” is the only magazine
in Australia which doe' not make a loss.
Although “Overland” describes itself
as a quarterly, a check of its back copies
reveals it as more of a tri-annual. In its
eight years of existence it is down one
copy for each year. In 1957 it produced
number nine and ten; in 1958, 11,12 and
13; in 1959 14, 15, and 16 (number 16
was dated 1959-60); and in 1960 it pro-
duced numbers 17 and 18 with 18 being
a Winter-Spring edition and number 19
being dated 1960-61.
Although in terms of writers and cir-
culation, “Overland’s” birth had little
or no effect on the two other big “little”
magazines in existence at the time,
“Southerly” and “Meanjin,” it probably
affected the rash of magazines of the
mid-fifties.
“Westerly” was the first of the new
wave of literary magazines coming out in
1956 followed by the first issue of “Quad-
rant” in December of the same year. The
solitary little magazine born in 1957 was
the political magazine “Outlook” still
psychologically shattered by Khrush-
chev’s Twentieth Congress de-Stalinisa-
tion speech. Nineteen fifty-eight saw the
quarterlies, “Australian Letters” and
“Prospect” appear, and at the same time
the fortnightlies “Observer” (later merged
with The Bulletin) and “Nation” —
still an independent fortnightly edited by
the Financial Editor of the “Sydney
Morning Herald,” Mr Tom Fitzgerald. In
January 1961 the West Australian tri-
weekly “The Critic” came out followed
at the end of the year by “Australian
Book Review” edited by the indefatigable
Max Harris with writers Geoffrey Dutton,
and Rosemary Wighton as co-editors.
“Westerly” is a tri-annual and its 800-
1000 copies of 52 pages are completely
financed by the Arts Union of the Uni-
versity of Western Australia to which
students pay a compulsory levy. Its pre-
sent editors are lan Brumby, a Com-
merce Student with an Arts Degree, and
J. O’Brien a West Australian writer. Last
year the C.L.F. rejected its application for
assistance. Its circulation varies between
1500 and 2000 with about 75 per cent, of
its circulation confined to the West.
If “Westerly” was the last of the purist
literary magazines “Quadrant” was pro-
bably the first of the new wave of maga-
zines which, while still mainly literary,
branched out into the political and social
jungles. Published by the Australian
Association for Cultural Freedom which
subsidises it to the extent of £BOO a
year, “Quadrant ’ is edited by Hobart
poet and professor, James McAuley. With
an optimistic printing number of 4000 at
its first issue it has now levelled out at
around 2500. The most frequent criti-
cism of it is that it is financed by
“American money,” as Cyril Pearl indi-
cated last Tnursday night on “The
Critics,” but its subsidy seems a long way
behind the “Australian money” found
for "Meanjin.” Jomes McAuley, who has
been its only editor, saw its original pur-
pose as an attempt to penetrate the intel-
lectual climate of the early 50's. “The
most recent expression of the sort of
climate I’m pointing to was used by
Laurie Thomas when we recorded the
ABC session ‘The Critics’ recently. He
said: ‘You can’t be anti-Communist and
be liberal—or free.’ I think that expres-
sion deserves to be preserved somewhere
in print.”
Spasmodically, the intellectual back-
biting, apparent just below the surface
of Australian little magazine life, breaks
out. When “Outlook” was invited to the
Little Magazine Seminar in Sydney, its
editor sent a letter to “Meanjin” and
“Nation” intimating that the whole thing
was a capitalist plot: “It has always been
my contention that the AACF (publishers
of ‘Quadrant’) has no roots in the Aus-
tralian cultural seed. It came into exis-
tence as part of a campaign throughout
the Western world to establish intellec-
tual supremacy and leadership for the
cultural right-wing. Rockefeller money
has made it possible to found journals . . .
The secretary of the AACF is Folish—
more particularly, one who has no con-
tact whatever with the local cultural
scene, and no feel for it. Its only con-
nection with the cultural field is through
the McAuley-Buckley (Prospect) strand
and occasional, mainly academic, sup-
porters and contributors to Quadrant.”
The long, sectlike and strong “Yankees-
go-home” letter ends: “What common
grounds have journals of opinion that are
seeking to influence opinion in opposite
directions? .. .1 do not feel the spiritual
fathers of our literary traditions would be
too happy among the visiting firemen at
the Belvedere Hotel.” Naturally enough
“Outlook” boycotted the seminar and the
editors of “National” and “Meanjin” were
also absent.
Not a question of ideology
PTShe only similarity between “Outlook”
and “Prospect”, the quarterly born six
months after it, is that both were the pro-
duct of a group. With a circulation of
1400, which has not grown since its first
issue in 1958, “Prospect” was founded
by a group of undergraduate and gradu-
ate Catholic intellectuals who stated in
the second issue that: “We must re-
affirm . . . that the articles we publish are
intended to treat whatever is vital in Aus-
tralian thought, not just an academic or
religious segment of it. Attitudinising by
looking outwards from within a Christian
orthodoxy cannot produce a fully repre-
sentative view; for this reason, relevance
to the subject, and not the writer’s ideo-
logy, is the basis of our selection of
articles.”
It was attacked by Catholic tradition-
alists in its early days and it is still seen
by some Catholic orthodoxists as some
sort of a threat to their pre-eminence in
Catholic circles. Its editorial control has
fluctuated among a number of people,
chiefly Paul Simpson, a philosophy tutor,
and Vincent Buckley, poet and Lecturer
in English at the Melbourne University.
Its present editor is Paul Simpson. Its
main strength lies in its education articles
and its poetry pages. This year for the
first time the financial burden on its
supporters has been slightly lifted with a
grant of £IOO from the Student Union
Council.
Another Melbourne-based little maga-


zine is the Catholic “20th Century.” Its
first editor, Melbourne solicitor, Gerard
Heffey produced the first copy in Sep-
tember, 1946. Its number one volume
was a fairly heavy concentration on social
philosophy, international affairs and gen-
eral criticism. The Catholic Archbishop
of Melbourne, Dr Mannix, gave it per-
sonal, and financial, support from its
beginnings and its present editor, Father
W. G. Smith, S. J. says that “he has never
tried to influence editorial policy in any
way.” Heffey resigned in 1953, and he
was replaced by another solicitor F. K.
Maher.
The transfer from control of Catholic
laymen to the Society of Jesus was
explained by its first Jesuit editor, Father
Muirhead, in a letter to a subscriber in
1957: “Briefly, the quarterly had after
nearly ten years, very few financial sub-
scribers and not much prospect of get-
ting on its feet as a self-supporting ven-
ture: The Society of Jesus was accordingly
asked to take it over and try to reorganise
it with a view to giving it a secure future.”
Its financial future has in one way been
secure as the Catholic Advocate Press
prints it free of charge. Although “20th
Century’s” circulation had fallen to an
amazingly low figure of 55 in 1955 it now
sells 1100. Its writers are by no means
confined to Catholics as its contributors
have included Lloyd Ross, Professor
Foenander, A. D. Hope, R. G. Casey,
and Professor Manning Clark.
With “Outlook's” arrival in July 1957,
the optimistic looked for something new
in the way of quarterlies. But the opti-
mism was soon dashed when it developed
a hankering after the “colonialism” of
New Left groups in England. It be-
came a “colonial” edition of the British
“New Reasoner” and “Universities and
Left Review.” Edited by Helen Palmer,
a former Secretary of the Australia-Soviet
Friendship Society, it was an Australian
voice for some of those members of the
Communist Party who had left it in 1956.
Prior to its birth, “Outlook” discussion
groups had grown up in both Melbourne
and Sydney (its organisational home).
Their concerns, Tito, Gomulka, and a
“democratic” type of communism were
reflected in the paper. As with “Over-
land,” its nearest political counterpart,
there were many fights over what direc-
tion it would take. Among those ex-
Communists around it was journalist Ken
Gott, who several years later, after it
had become almost a completely Sydney-
based magazine, wrote: “ ‘Outlook’
claimed to reject factional political
material. In practice, this meant that it
was factional to attack the Victorian ALP
executive, but not to defend it. The
Sydney New Left accepted the myth per-
petrated by the Australian daily Press
that the Victorian Executive was left-
wing and thereby felt obliged to defend it.
We in Victoria knew it was anything but
left-wing.”
With the end of its Melbourne support,
“Outlook” is regarded in most “little
magazine” circles as a political “sect”
magazine. With occasional good articles,
from experts like political scientist Sol
Encel, its circulation of 1200-1500 seems
unlikely to increase.
Recently Australian writer Max Harris
said: “ ‘Angry Penguins,’ ‘Angry Pen-
guins Broadsheet,’ ‘Ern Malley’s Journal,’
‘Australian Letters,’ ‘Australian Book
Review’—it would seem that I have spent
something like two decades in the rabbit-
like breeding of literary periodicals; and
the less charitable among my Australian
colleagues might suggest that I suffer
chronically from some form of literary
satyriasis.” His two current little maga-
zines, “Australian Letters” and ‘‘Austra-
lian Book Review” (first produced in
November, 1961) are very much going
concerns. (Since last year, the CLF
granted “Australian Letters" £250 subsidy
and £IOO to “Australian Book Review ”
The circulation of “Australian Letters” is
between 1800-2000 and it is probably the
OERIAND
best-looking, and most competently pro-
duced of the literary little magazines.
It is self-supporting.
His “Australian Book Review” sells
3000 and is something of a specialist
magazine devoting itself solely to discus-
sing, at some length, reviews of Austra-
lian authors’ works. Selling at 1/9 it is
a monthly magazine which has found its
way into many overseas libraries. At
Christmas, the editors will produce a 58-
page children’s book and educational sup-
plement discussing, among other things,
the quality of Australian textbooks and
their lack of application to Australian
conditions. He explains its rapid growth
in circulation by the haphazard way in
which Australian books are reviewed in
newspapers and all other magazines.
If “Australian Book Review” is some-
thing new in the little magazine boom,
“The Critic”, published in Western Aus-
tralia is also novel. Started in January,
1961, by three graduates of that State’s
University, Hal Nicholson (28), Eugene
Schlusser (22) and poet, John O’Brien
(32), it began, “with the idea of filling
the immense gulf in this community be-
tween the sort of thing we did with Arts
at the University, and the general public.”
Devoted exclusively to the Arts it has
produced 30 issues, settling down at an
eight-page, appearing every three weeks.
It has received some help from the
Student Arts Union but its financial
balance is still precarious relying on the
donations from its friends and sub-
scribers to make up the deficit. Its circu-
lation fluctuates between 900-1,400 with
its readership coming from “the profes-
sional classes, the 'Spanish Sherry' belt,
students, and those active in the Arts.”
While “The Critic” is the youngest of
the little magazines “The Australian
Quarterly”, starting in March 29, is prob-
ably the oldest of the established “politi-
cal” ones. From 1929 to 1933 it was
published by the Constitutional Associa-
tion of New South Wales and then by
the Australian Institute of Political
Science. It is now self-supporting, selling
up to 3000 copies an issue.
An abortive attempt
T ike “Outlook” and “Prospect” the Mel-
bourne social and political magazine
“Dissent” arose from the desire of a
young group, mostly undergraduates,
who felt that their present needs weren’t
being met by any other little magazine.
After an abortive attempt to associate
themselves with “Outlook” the Mel-
bourne “Dissent” group somewhat hur-
riedly produced its first issue in July,
1961. Its circulation has levelled out at
a firm 1,400 and its present parlous
financial state has been somewhat re-
lieved by a subsidy of £lOO a year from
the Students’ Arts Union of the Mel-
bourne University. Its present editors
are two academics, Peter Wertheim of
the Philosophy staff and Jim Jupp, a
political scientist.
The boom period in little magazines
shows few signs of abating. This year
the Poetry Society of Australia’s rather
dismal roneoed poetry paper blossomed
into a 42-page bi-monthly, handsomely-
printed magazine. Under the editorship
of a Sydney doctor and poet, Grace
Perry, its circulation is now 2000 and it
is even carrying advertisements.
Later this year Mr. Mervyn Horton of
Ure Smith plans to edit an 80-page maga-
zine “Art and Australia”. With a planned
size of 80 pages (16 of them de-
voted to advertising) it will be a quarterly
devoted to the plastic arts, with an un-
usually large editorial advisory com-
mittee, made up of painters and writers,
who include John Olsen, Laurie Thomas
and James Gleeson.
In a recent talk the Melbourne journal-
ist Ken Gott summed up the pisition of
little magazines in Australia when he
said: “. . . if there is a Golden Age of
little magazines and journals of minority
interest, I think it is right now rather
than at some time in the past. I don’t
think there has ever been a time when
Australia has had such a varied array
of regularly appearing little magazines
and journals of opinion.”


AUSTRALIAN PAPERBOARD CHOSEN BY POST OFFICE
mm
v:
, *
m
m
■■ -■. •
n
Australian-made paperboard produced at the Petrie Mill of Australian Paper
Manufacturers Limited has been chosen by the Post Office for the attractive covers of
the recently issued Sydney and Melbourne telephone directories. Known as
Telephone Directory Cartridge, D.C.100, the board was developed by A.P.M.
after extensive trials and is being used for all the 1962/1963 telephone directories,
alphabetical and classified, in all major centres. Telephone Directory Cartridge
is one of a number of new high quality paperboards developed by A.P.M. to meet
the need for higher quality printing and packaging boards. The Company has
installed new equipment at a number of its mills to produce the new grades.
: ■: ■ ft; ftft ft ■ ■■■■■■Oft:ft oft
.ftp ,:".ft ft,'
■ ggg mm wx
. * - : ft ; -
■
.. ;; : ■
■-ft’- oft
mm
m
AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LIMITED
OWNED BY AUSTRALIANS
South Gate, South Melbourne. Sales Offices in all State Capitals. TDS2 - S,M


OUT AND ABOUT
WHY NOT WARTS AND ALL?
The Voice of the Tourist is Heard in Our Land
By PATRICIA ROLFE
(U t least,” the American woman on
/\ the bus said, “you don’t have to
JTm. hold your nose round these parts.”
We were at the moment passing through
the more attractive parts of Sydney’s
North Shore; the bus swung into Pente-
cost Highway. “Not like Hong Kong,”
she added. “Of course, the Japanese were
very clean in their way of doing things
but their sidewalks were very messy. But
it was all so cute there. The children
especially were cute. We used to see
busloads of schoolchildren on their way
to visit Buddha. They’d be very shy at
first. But we’d smile at them and wave
and after a while they’d smile back. And
the children in Hong Kong were cute,
too. I remember a little boy, without a
stitch on and his sister with him. She
was, well, you know urinating in the
street. I got my camera out and tried
to get it focused in time, but she saw
us and got up and walked away. But
they were so cute.”
The bus-trip was part of in exercise
to try to find out something of what
American tourists see here, and what
they think of what they see. Americans
are not our most numerous visitors, but
if the number of tourists coming here
is to increase, the increase will probably
come from the United States.
In two days we covered the eastern
suburbs and southern beaches and the
North Shore, Kuring-gai reserve and
northern beaches. Cuteness seems to be
the yardstick of Americans’ enthusiasm
and there were only two things which
this particular batch of tourists thought
really cute.
One was a kangaroo with a joey in
her pouch at the sanctuary near Bobbin
Head. The other was a group of women-
bowlers, in white dresses and stockings,
playing on a green. The Americans nearly
fell out of the bus to look at the bowlers.
But women bowlers and kangaroos
with joeys do not really get Australia
very far in the quest for cuteness, unless,
perhaps, we can induce the bowlers to
carry their babies in pouches or teach
kangaroos to bowl. What short of
gumleaf bands on the wharf as the ship
comes in can we do to appear more
picturesque? This is one of the problems
of the travel people who want to bring
more tourists here.
The Americans in the bus were ar-
rivals in the British liner, Arcadia, last
week. Apart from one browned girl
who gave a scornful look at the buses
and, with maps and camera, set off on
foot for the city and her own sight-
seeing, they were all the sort of tourists
who ride around in buses. If you were
looking for a group of extras to cast
in a film as American tourists, you need
not have gone any further. There were
peaked caps, sunglasses and cameras, and
the odd flight of fancy in a brilliantly
checked sports coat or flowered raffia
sandals.
The group were all retired people.
They had the triumphant look of sur-
vivors. There were almost as many men
as women, and that in a party of elderly
tourists is something of a phenomenon.
They were all from Florida, although
few were natives of that state. They
had gone there in their retirement from
all parts of the United States with one
or two from Canada. Most had been
small-town businessmen and had made
enough for comfortable retirement. But
they were not wealthy. Some of the
better-off still have homes up north
for the hot Florida summer; others visit
their children, still living up north, to
escape the he \
The Arcadia had five days in Sydney,
which is longer than the usual stay, and
will have short stops in other Australian
ports. Travelling with the Floridans was
Mrs Roy Brown, manager of the tour
department of the travel agency which
her husband runs in St. Petersburg,
Florida. Their tour arrangements here
were handled by Stewart Moffat Travel.
St Petersburg is a town of about 120,-
000. “It’s twice that in the tourist se on,”
Mrs Brown said, “but most of the resi-
dents are senior citizens.” Most of the
people on the bus came from there. Not
only that, but they already kne v each
other before they embarked. Their trip
is from the west coast of the U.iited
States to Hawaii, Japan, Hong Kong,
Manila, Australia, Ceylon, through Suez
and the Mediterranean to England, then
across the Atlantic.
Her group of Americans from the


m
imm*
■
WITH
SPECIAL KEYING SYSTEMS
MK-A
MK-8
0 •
[■' MK-C
t.-j <0 I'"-' ~-j 43 43 'i
Al. *2. A 3. 81. 82. 83. Cl. C 2. C 3
A 3. J Cl. ‘
GRAND MASTER-KEYED SYSTEM
r-X
<fr
&
Each lock has its own individual key which operates that lock only and
no other, but the locks are divided into two or more groups. Each group
is subject to its own Master-Key which opens all locks in that group, but
no other group.
However, air locks are also subject to a Grand Master-Key which opens
all locks in all groups.
As with Master-Keyed Systems, Keyed-Alike groups may also be included
in G.M. K. Systems.
WITH THE LOCKWOOD
MASTER-KEY SYSTEM
YOU NEED CARRY ONLY
ONE KEY INSTEAD OF
HUNDREDS!
REPLACING INSECURITY
AND CONFUSION WITH
MAXIMUM SECURITY.
MAXIMUM
CONVENIENCE!
In industry and commerce today —a Lockwood MK System is an essential
pre-requisite to controlled security throughout your organisation.
Each system, large or small, is designed specifically to individual requirements,
enabling smooth functioning of access by authority, including Fire Brigade
and Police, and guaranteeing rapid accessibility, in emergencies, to any part
of the building, plant, or organisation.
Specifications and code details of all established Special Keying Systems are
held on permanent record under strict security by Ogden Industries
enabling quick replacement of lost keys or damaged locks "true to code”, and
allowing absolute control of additions or extensions to the system.
Experienced special representatives are immediately available to discuss
Master-Keyed or Grand Master-Keyed Systems in detail.
Please contact your leading hardware merchant, or Ogden Industries Pty,
Limited at any Branch, listed below, for prompt attention.
IPfiK
UP
Wiru
Manufactured in Australia by
OGDEN INDUSTRIES PTY. LIMITED
Brisbane 7-3047 • Sydney LM 3191, LM 3186 • Canberra 4-4098
Adelaide W 2153 • Perth 23-2214 • Hobart 3-3141 • Melbourne 569-0611
Arcadia spent five days in Sydney, four
of them sightseeing. There seemed to be
about 100 Americans in the Arcadia
altogether. Our group sat quietly in the
bus (“Some of them talk so much I
give up,” the driver said) with their heads
turning like spectators at a tennis-match.
The commentary in general was
matter of fact and adequate The
driver said it was no use giving too
much detail. People couldn't take it in,
but he had some imaginative touches,
such as the weight of the AMP building
and the fact that Francis Greenway was
paid 3d a day.
The Americans looked at everything,
but rarely asked further questions or took
photographs. The second day they were
in a bus which had recently been re-
novated. They complained that the seats
were too high at the back for them to
get any sort of a view and the head-rests
were too high for women. This bus was
about the only thing which made them
lose their good humor.
They knew little about Australia and
their interest seemed to be in gathering
odd facts, rather than getting a fair
general picture. That Holden car, one
asked, is it made here? Isn't the steel
imported? Isn't the engine imported?
Although Australians seem to feel
that their sports achievements win them
an international reputation, the Ameri-
cans showed no interest in the bus
driver's announcement of the American
tennis championships results. They had
never heard of Murray Rose when the
driver pointed out the Spit baths where
Rose learnt to swim, and although one
of the tourists remarked that we “sure
had a lot of little boats” she had never
heard of Gretel.
Americans are no longer the free-
spenders they may have been. They can
now take back to their own country only
100 dollars worth of goods, duty free.
As these particular visitors are on a long
trip, they bought little here.
They had all heard of Sydney oysters
and sea-food and seem well satisfied
with what they got in that line (but they
were complaining bitterly about the food
in the Arcadia).
They turned down the idea of night-
clubs in favor of “East Lynne” at the
music hall at Neutral Bay. They just
loved that. They thought Australia “very
British” and no more Americanised than
Britain.
If there was something wrong with the
tours arranged for them, it was perhaps
that the tourists weren’t seeing Sydney,
warts and all. The routes try too con-
scientiously to skirt the poorer parts of
the city, where we might, at least, have
a chance to look picturesque. The tourists
were enchanted with the few terrace-
houses with cast-iron balconies they saw
at North Sydney, but that was all they
saw. The route from the southern beaches
comes back through the drearier subur-
ban wastes of Kensington and Randwick.
when it could cut through Paddington.
And Americans, who, after all, in
Rome often go only to St Peter’s on the
principle that once you’ve seen one
church, you’ve seen the lot and you
might as well see the biggest, quickly
grow bored. Once they had seen Bondi
Beach they had no interest in slogging
on through Tamarama and Bronte to
Coogee. And on the north side it was
up the highway to Hornsby, to Bobbin
Head, then through Turramurra, Pymble,
St Ives down to French’s Forest, Beacon
Hill, etc. to Manly, then through Dobroyd
Point, Mosman, etc. back to Sydney,
There was something of desperation in
one tourist’s voice as, coming along yet
another suburban street of neat cot-
tages with neat gardens and neat people,
she leant across and asked: “Don’t you
have any slums in this place?”


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
liuorporated in Englund
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
«
Funds Exceed
£A413,000,000
Offices :
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
BRINKMANSHIP
"A bit of private enterprise"
By KATHERINE RANDERSON
Still they come, the Englishmen out
here to do some field-work on Com-
mon Market proposals. At present
here is Sir Tufton Beamish, Conservative
MP for Lewes, Sussex, and chairman of
the Conservative Foreign Affairs Com-
mittee. Sir Tufton is intent on finding
out what Australians in general think
about Britain’s proposed entry into the
Common Market, but he is also anxious
to get across his Government’s basic
line: “Britain will go in only if the con-
ditions are right.” However, Sir Tufton
emphasises that this trip is just a “bit of
private enterprise.”
After visits to Canberra, during
which he saw the Acting Prime Minister,
Senator Spooner, and Sir Garfield Bar-
wick, Melbourne and the Young, NSW
agricultural show, Sir Tufton was
obviously beginning to feel that while
he may have come here at an interest-
ing point in the Common Market
negotiations, with the Prime Ministers’
conference on, it was also a difficult
time to be a propagandist. “I get the
air-mail edition of ‘The Times’ every
day,” he said, “but the position obviously
is changing every day.”
After Australia, Sir Tufton will spend
one week in New Zealand. He will give
this time to TV, radio and press inter-
views on the Common Market. In Aus-
tralia he has also been doing some work
as a director of the British branch of
the American firm of pharmaceutical
chemists, Smith, Kline and French. The
Australian subsidiary has just built a
factory outside Sydney. Sir Tufton was
also investigating the possibility of his
company going into the veterinary field
here.
Sir Tufton said that it was very easy
for a colleague (a reference to Mr Derek
Walker, MP) to come out here and say
that Britain should not go into the
Common Market.
“That is the negative attitude,” Sir
Tufton said. “It is harder to take the
positive line and say Britain should go
into the market provided the terms are
right. I am not prepared to say Britain
should go in, unless I know the terms
are right.”
Sir Tufton admitted that the present
estimate of British public opinion as
five to four against going into Europe
was probably correct. He felt that the
largest single factor in swinging opinion
from the six to four in favor, which was
the estimate a year ago, was the un-
relenting propaganda of the “Daily
Express” group of papers.
Sir Tufton said he believed at the
moment that at least three-quarters, or,
perhaps, 90 per cent, of Conservative
members were in favor of Britain going
into Europe if the terms were favorable;
the Socialist Party, he felt, was split in
two, and the Liberals, the whole six of
them, were in favor of European union.
“But I do not pretend for a moment
that this is going to be a painless opera-
tion,” Sir Tufton said. “But it will hurt
us more than Australia.”
Sir Tufton has been member for
Lewes since 1945, when he was 28. His
father was previously MP for the same
electorate for 18 years. Sir Tufton said
his electorate contained a large number
of retired people, some commuters to
London, but also a number of small
farms. He, himself, had inherited 100
acres from his father. This, he had
found, was not a commercial proposi-
tion, once a manager’s salary had to be
paid, so he had planted timber and
given up farming.
Sir Tufton said he believed a propor-
tion of British farmers were unworried
by the prospect of union with Europe.
“A lot of our farmers have not agreed
with the way British agriculture has been
mollycoddled with annual subsidies
amounting to £350,000,000,” he said.
‘‘We have two basic advantages over the
Six in regard to agriculture—our farms
are the most highly mechanised, and we
have far fewer small, uneconomic
farms.”
Sir Tufton said that the small mixed
farm in Britain might be badly hit, if
Britain went into Europe, but the larger
farmer, in general, was not worried. If
Britain went into the Common Market
it seemed inevitable that many of the
small farms would disappear. He said
that some of the horticulturists in his
electorate and some of the fruit-growers
were worried. However, fear of the
Common Market’s effect on agriculture
was not confined to growers of any one
commodity; it depended rather on the
size and efficiency of the farm, not on
what the farmer grew.
Sir Tufton said that from what he
had seen of beef-cattle at the Young
show, he believed that Australia, if she
standardised quality and adopted chill-
ing, could successfully compete on the
British market. “From what 1 have seen
your beef seems very good,” he said,
“and I have discovered that your wines
are, too. You know, until I came here
I thought you lived on Emu burgundy
and kangaroo-tail soup.”


AUSTRALIAN PRIME MINISTERS—V
ANDREW FISHER
The most inarticulate P.M. in Australia
or any other country
By M. H. ELLIS
One day in 1893 one of those ancient
messengers of Brisbane’s Parlia-
ment house, who looked like the
retainers of dukes, found a strange
figure at the front door. He was a tall
young man in w'hat was then known as
“the Labor hat”, a piece of roofing affec-
ted very generally by trade union leaders.
He wore the blue serge, two-pound reach-
me-down suit of the working man’s Sun-
day best. He had on the string tie of his
class over a glazed shirt front and hang-
ing crooked round a collar fastened by a
visible bone stud. He was about 30 with
a rather stringy moustache, but a big well-
set up fellow. Under one arm he carried
one of those black and yellowish jute
striped bags which were the vogue in that
age, in the other, a wicker hold-all, also of
a type popular with the proletariat the
sides fitted into each other, the straps
separate and had a metal handle.
“Mon,” announced this apparition, who
was so much out of decor with Parlia-
ment House, “Ahm Andy Fusher frae
Gympie. Wheer may a man find a wee
bite and a sluice?” And he put down his
luggage on the doorstep and a copy of
that dreadful work, “Progress and
Poverty”, fell out of the jute bag.
Without a word, the Ancient Servitor
led him to the lavatory with its noble
marble basins, its immense faucets and
its urinals like monuments.
Having known Andy Fisher only 15
years after he passed the portals of
Parliament House as an elected member
for Gympie, the then very lively site
of the first great gold rush of Queens-
land (the earlier Canoona was not really
great), there seems more than a modicum
of truth in the tale. It is the kind of
simple approach that Andy Fisher would
have made. Even when he had become
deputy leader of the Federal Labor Party
he remained simple, with simple wants,
a simple Ayrshire accent (somewhat
smoothed out by long contact with
foreigners) and a modesty that never left
him.
Somebody has described him as the
most inarticulate Party leader, not to
mention Prime Minister, who ever sat
in office in Australia; or for that matter,
I should say, anywhere else. If he had
not had behind h’ eager tongues and
pens to translate such uncomplicated sen-
tences as “We’ll have workers’ compen-
sation bill, now” into the necessary
copious clauses and verbiages, and add
the embellishments of explanation, he
probably would never have got anywhere
in political life. He was excellent at re-
producing the thoughts of others in
the earlier days those of the journals and
socialist literature he found in the bounti-
ful Queensland Parliamentary Library
which he frequented as if it were his
prison house. He was a good sorter out
and groomer of other people’s ideas. He
could thresh the acceptable ones out of
the wildly visionary, even from those of
the wild-and-whirling King O’Malley. He
had a poor instinct for public opinion,
but a Scotch caution which served him
well. He was not an originator. Nobody
knew till the end of his days where his
plans and phrases came from unless
they were obvious in origin. But he
was a worker, he wn sincere. He was a
prodigious reader in his younger days
of the more pawky of the socialist
prophets of the nineties. (I once caught
him reading a volume of Blair’s sermons
in the train and thought I detected a
little of their flavor in a speech which
he made the same evening.) He had little
gift for conversation. And outside read-
ing, his recreation was chess. He played
chess in trains, on railway stations and
it was said, even in bed.
Gympie was one of the most populous
of State electorates in Queensland. It had
all of 3,000 electors and it returned two
members. As soon as there vas a Labor
Party, a suitable atmosphere created by
the great industrial upheavals, depression
and flood at the outset of the 1890 s, they
were Labor members at least for a
time.
Fisher was one of the first of them.
He was, like most Queensland members
of that day, an immigrant. He had been
born in Crosshouse, Ayrshire, on August
29, 1862. He went to school at the little
village school. He used to tell occasion-
ally of the hardship of his early life with
great cheerfulness—as cheerfulness went
with him of the oatmeal homeground and
eaten with salt, of the rarity of a meat
ration, of the warmth of a cottage crowd-
ed with humans and very much like
the Burns cottage at Ayr, only smaller;
of the work in the mines that he was
dedicated to not long after the age of
nine; of the dirt and the ritual of the
weekly scrub on which his mother in-
sisted; and of the readings, by a flicker-
ing candlelight, and the walks to work
through the bitter dawns, the returns in
even more chilly dusks haunted by the
northern blast.
At 23, he came to Queensland to work
in the Burrum coal mines near Howard
and not far from the busy Gympie gold
mines—Burrum has produced more than
one distinguished politician. The leading
mineowner, Colonel Rankin became a
Queensland Minister for Railways and
his daughter Dame Annabel, is in the
Senate. These mines with their larger
seams were a happy change from the
wretched Scottish mines, but the clean
quartz mines of Gympie were a stronger
magnet. So, to Gympie, already with a
reputation as a unionist, Fisher went and
eight years after arriving in Queensland
was elected senior member for Gympie
in the Assembly. Though his stablemate,
George Ryland had to wait six years
to start a career which he ended as one
of the veterans of Parliament.
It was a heady and exciting year for
Labor and for politicians in general
the year of the floods which destroyed
Victoria Bridge in Brisbane and originat-
ed the notice that appeared in many a
Queensland bar up to modern times
(“Don’t spit on the floor Remember
the ’93 Flood!). It was the year in which
William Lane’s 200 Socialists left for
the promised land in South America, in
which the first western agricultural
settlement was tried out and the first
regular mail connection between Brisbane
and Vancouver initiated, and the Corowa
Conference put the Federation movement
on a practical basis.
But it was not a year that produced
a settled industrial life or economy. The
victims of five years of disaster were
moving restlessly round the impoverished
Queensland countryside. The depression
was probably worse than that of 1931
In the winter 1894 when the Colonial
Secretary, Sir Horace Tozer, whose elec-
torate adjoined Fisher’s introduced
Queensland’s first relief scheme, one
week’s pay for one day’s work.
Labor had a riotous time in the House.
In June, the shearers went on general
strike which lasted till September with
riots, burning of woolsheds, the passage
of the Peace Preservation Act, celebrated
by the suspension of eight Labor mem-
bers in one of the stormiest fights of
Australian Parliamentary history.
In 1896 two adventurous Liberals
tackled the Gympie electorate and Fisher
went out, went back to work, tried again


and won in 1899. Just after the Queens-
land Referendum had been held on the
Commonwealth of Australia Bill and the
first Queensland Contingent had left for
South Africa, well loaded with Gympie
miners. He became once more senior
member for Gympie and ripe to be ap-
pointed Minister for Railways and Public
Works in the first Labor ministry ever
commissioned in the world.
Fisher of the wicker hamper
Tts head was Anderson Dawson, a
member for Gympie’s sister mining
electorate of Charters Towers, who
had been first President of the
Queensland Miners’ Union. On the resig-
nation of the feeble Dickson ministry on
November 29, 1899, he was called on
to form a Government. It was not an
imposing ministry. It was Queensland’s
20th in less than 40 years of existence.
It survived six days only, but of the six
holders of portfolios, one became
Premier of Queensland and founded its
university (W. Kidston), one had a long
career in the Queensland Labor Minist-
ries of the Ryan-Theodore era, two in-
cluding Dawson, sat in Watson’s
first Commonwealth Labor Ministry and
one, Fisher, became Prime Minister. The
Home Secretary, the walrus moustached
Harry Turley, became President of the
Senate.
Membership of this ministry marked
Fisher out as a leader. He won great
eclat among unionists by fathering the
Factories and Shops Bill which was
passed in 1900. When Queensland did
finally decide to come into the Federal
fold, he had a lien on the Wide Bay
seat which he won in March 1901 from
J. T. Annear, a dour Cornish railway
contractor who had built the Gympie-
Maryborough railway. The Gympie
and Burrum Miners gained the day for
Fisher, who won by 4,910 votes to 3,955.
He won the seat five times more, each
time by an increasing majority, after
which it became a Country Party seat
which remained in the hands of E.B.C.
Corser and his son Bernard for 40 years.
By 1904 the Fisher of the wicker
hamper and jute bag had changed ap-
preciably. He was much of the type of
Watson, more stubborn, more ambitious,
stronger perhaps of will and firmer in
ambition. His appearance was his great-
est asset. Like Watson, he was at 39, a
fine physical figure. He had filled out.
He was always well groomed in a sober
way, very neat, always the owner of a
good hat and clean boots. His wispy
moustache had flourished like the native
shrubs of his electorate, but it was kept
in better order and nobody would have
ever suspected it of harboring poison
bushes. He was then more dour and
silent than before, until the forest re-
newed itself.
He had improved as a speaker and
had learned to use other people’s ideas.
But he was still very much of a solid
party man and therefore had an ad-
vantage in a party which mistrusted the
brilliance and independence of such men
as Hughes.
At the same time, it was remarkable
that he should defeat Hughes for the
Deputy Leadership of the Party, having
regard to the fact of Queensland’s luke-
warmness about Federation and the flash-
ing genius and ant-like activities of
Hughes on major Labor issues, apart
from his impressive record as a fighter
for labor legislation in the New South
Wales Parliament. But beat him he did
and Billy was not amused many years
later he still fumed about what he could
have done if he had been the first Labor
leader of Federation.
Fisher was of the same mind with
Watson that the primary objective of
Labor ./as reform, hether carried by
Labor itself or obtained by “concessions
in return for support”. He did not care
for office; indeed, he distrusted it as
something that might corrupt Labor
leaders and divorce them from the
virtues which W. A. Holman attri-
buted to him and which were prob-
ably as near the ideals of a man in his
position as he could reach —“simplicity,
frugality, rugged candor and a single-
minded devotion to just causes.”
He made little mark on the develop-
ment of Parliamentary Government
during his first years in Melbourne,
contenting himself with backing up Wat-
son. But he increasingly improved his
status in Caucus and when the first
Commonwealth Labor ministry was
formed he was given the post of Trade
and Customs. Though the minstry lived
for four months, with the first three
weeks spent in recess, it was doomed
from the beginning. It crashed on his
favorite subject - arbitration.
It was natural when Watson more or
less rebelled against Caucus domination
in 1908 though the excuse for his
retirement from the leadership was ill-
health which wasn’t very apparent
Fisher should be an almost unanimous
choice as his successor.
Thirteen was his unlucky number
TTe entered blithely on the job and
wrote to A. G. Stephens, founder of
the Bulletin’s Red Page, who had been
his friend since his early political days
in Gympie that Caucus in: rference had
“never been a trouble” to him, and that
“at present it is the finest battleground
any political party could wish to have”,
since members were “pLJged to each
other to the same extent as we are
pledged to our constituents.”
When Fisher became Prime Minister,
Watson tried to secure for him the right
which he himself had enjoyed that
of selecting his own ministers. But
Fisher's own complacent attitude, as
much as anything, defeated the attempt
and as time went on he became more
and more subservient to Caucus super-
vision, thus setting the scene for future
Labor ministries.
In 1910, at the outset of his second
term of office, he found himself the
victim of procedures established during
the riotous period of 1909 when no less
than four Caucus committees carne into
being to study legislation and keep tab
on various departments. When the Gov-
ernor-General, in 1910, invited him to
form another ministry he asked permis-
sion to refer the matter to Caucus.
He was then even subjected to super-
vision of legislation before the House to
che extent (assured on Hughes’ initiative)
that the majority of a Caucus present
in the House, even if they did not form
a majority of all parties, could secure
the postponement of clauses pending a
party meeting. Thus, he found himself
harassed on important measures, match-
ing his own stubbornness against the
cunning of fellow ministers, such as
King O’Malley whose “torpedo brigade”
within Caucus, a famous pressure group,
forced Fisher in 1911 to introduce a
Commonwealth Bank Bill against his
own convictions. The fact that he in-
troduced a Bill which was widely dif-
ferent from the fantastic measures which
the King had in mind, did him little good
in the end, for his opponent was like
an elephant when it came to remember
ing grudges.
Defence on a grand scale
was Prime Minister three times
A —as the sixth head of a Federal Cab-
inet in the brief period from November
13, 1908 to June 1, 1909. His second
term was for three years and two months,
the longest period of office held up to the
advent of the Hughes National Ministry,
by any government save that of Deakin,
who survived three years and four months
after taking office in 1905. Fisher’s last
period was his thirteen months period
beginning with his defeat of Joseph Cook
thirteen c’ ys after Wor'd War 1 broke
out in 1914 - thirteen curiously was his
unlucky number.
The first time he took office, it was
by withdrawing the support of Labor
from Deakin over the issue of the refer-
endum on the “new protection” amend-
ments to the Constitution. He accepted
protesting, rather than formed, his minis-
try which was elected by Caucus, though
he was allowed to allot portfolios.
He was almost at once in chilly con-
flict with the State Premiers, whose con-
ference that year he attended, though he
refused to discuss the Commonwealth’s
financial terms with them and left them
all more than irritated. He was hampered
by the diversion of the sudden outburst
of jingoistic patriotism which seemed to


grip the whole country as Germany began
to show its claws, but he showed himself
all too imperturbable about the scheme
to present the United Kingdom with a
"Deadnoughi”, and got himself roundly
denounced by half the mayors in the
country and assailed by hysterical press
demands that he should call Parliament
together so that it might eject him.
His programme included the “new pro-
tection” referendum. But old age pen-
sions formed the central feature, the Act
covering them to “be carried out . . .
whatever financial embarrassment we
may meet with.” Defence was planned
on a grand scale he had ordered three
River class destroyers without Parlia-
ment's permission. He proposed compul-
sory training between the ages of ten
and twenty, with the volunteer system
continued for men over 21, this ulti-
mately providing 220,000 men in twelve
years time. He showed as much enthusi-
asm for a Commonwealth Note Issue at
the expense of the private banks as Mr
Ch if ley later showed for the destruction
of those institutions. And ‘ e announced
the impending appointment of a High
Commissioner to counter the States’
propaganda competition and also steps
to nationakse the iron and steel industry
forthwith, and deal with “monopolies”.
Then, of course, he inserted casually
what he called “the little item” for
Commonwealth taxation of unimproved
land values to break up large estates with
such swiftness that the tax would dis-
appear as small settlement took over.
Practically the whole of the Press was
against him. Everybody was yearning to
see the end of the jack-in-the-box system
of Government with three parties in the
field. Nobody liked the taste of the ap-
parently imminent socialisation of the
Commonwealth which he foreshadowed,
not even his own moderat followers in
and out of Parliament. The Fisher minis-
try dissolved in the midst of the most
turbulent peace-time political explosion
in Commonwealth history, through the
withdrawal of the s 'pport of Deakin’s
dwindled following.
Last man, last shilling
XpiSHER’s second Ministry was far more
A fruitful. For the first time Party
came back to the Federal Parliament in
April 1910 under his leadership with an
absolute majority 42 members, with
two including Sir William Lyne “inde-
pendent” of the side lines and 29 minis-
terialists led by Deakin with Austin
Chapman supporting. For the first time,
a Government of the Commonwealth had
a chance to unfold its wings without
some other party perched on its aching
neck. Nobody was more surprised by the
result than Labor which found itself vic-
torious and with the power to take over
State debts confirmed by the vote of a
referendum, lhe Cabinet was elected by
Andrew Fisher as seen by Hop
exhaustive secret ballot. With a Labor
Speaker in the House of Representatives
and a Labor President in the Senate
both Queenslanders Fisher set to work
with more caution than in his previous
essay at government.
His period saw passed the basic amend-
ments which brought conciliation and
arbitration into the modern era, the
attack of W. M. Hughes (Attorney Gen-
eral) on the supposed coal and shipping
vend, the acceptance of the Northern
Territory as a Commonwealth respon-
sibility. The Commonwealth Land Tax
and the Commonwealth Notes Act belong
to that era. Billy Hughes as Attorney
General brought down the Judiciary Bill
which would empower the High Court
to answer for ever any Government’s
question: “Is this measure one which
it is within the power of the Common-
wealth to pass?” It was rushed through
the two Houses in a few hours at the
end of a Session. The Commonwealth
Bank was founded. The Defence Act,
following on the Kitchener Report was
passed. Compulsory tr ining came in,
Duntroon was rounded, Australia had a
Navy. But three years of Labor was
enough for the country. Fisher won his
own electorate at the 1913 poll with only
a slightly increased majority over Arnold
Wienholt, the Etonian lion-hunter who
died in World War II somewhere in
Abyssinia. But Joe Cook succeeded him
in power as the last of the Free Traders.
He had only a short run and Fisher
found himself once more in office with
a 13-days-old war on his hands, the pres-
tige of the Father Founder of Australian
defence to uphold and such followers as
Hugh Mahon, his Minister for External
Affairs, who had shared Kilmainham Jail
and Parnell. Mahon was scarcely amused
by his leader’s determination expressed
on July 31, 1914 with the shadow of
war on the world, that: “Should the worst
happen, we will stand by the Mother
Country to help and defend her to the
last man and the last shilling.”
Moved to tears
Very strangely, as he had become the
first wartime Prime Mi/ister through
his association with defence, it was thus
through defence that Fisher fell. He had
a brilliant team. The First Division of
the A.I.F. was got away in fine time.
Gallipoli justified his policies. The ball
seemed at his feet for a long run in
office. But internal party dissensions,
the constant pressures and the nearness
to the consuming flame of W. M.
Hughes, brought him down. The struggle
over the War Census Bill which was
suspected by many a Labor man to be
the forerunner of conscription seems to
have been his armageddon.
He himself was “irrevocably opposed”
to conscription and although his resigna-
tion and acceptance of the High Com-
missionership were attributed to ill-
health, the truth seemed to be that he
quailed before the prospect of a contest
in which he knew that he would be
opposed not only by the whole of the
Liberals and a powerful block of trade
unions, but by formidable elements with-
in his own party Hughes, Holman
and his friend and former leader, J. C.
Watson. Watson told me that Fisher was
moved to tears by the prospect. He had
no taste for being marooned with Hugh
Mahon whose views and utterances were
so extreme that, after the war, he was to
earn the doubtful honor of being ex-
pelled from Parliament.
In London, Fisher made a good im-
pression. He wore himself out with war
work. The Diggers saw him haggard and
worn, in France with Hughes, on Ascen-
sion Day, 1916. He negotiated the pur-
chase of the ships for the Common-
wealth Line. In 1921, he retired from
office. He lingered on, increasingly an
invalid in England till he died in 1928.


SPORTING NOTIONS
ON THE NIGHT OF SEPTEMBER 3
To hit Sid Prior is to arouse something wild.. .
By DISCUS
Trained fighters used to manoeuvre
their opponents to the ropes, tie
them up neatly, view the clock at
leisure, pace their action during the
round and, for instance, expend no un-
necessary energy in the final ten seconds
when a knockout is no longer possible.
Any who tried that caper with Sid Prior
would be hurled six feet, rushed against
the far ropes, poleaxed if they ducked
for cover, and flung out of the ring, or
hit some more if they fell to their knees.
The Marquis of Queensberry would
not have cared for this, but it is Prior’s
newest way of fighting, and momentarily
local boxing is stuck with it. From which
you may gather that I was not wildly
enthusiastic about the merits of his per-
formance against Cowburn at Sydney
Stadium on the night of September 3.
It was a wild enough and occasionally
dramatic encounter, but the prognosis
for boxing is less hopeful now than dur-
ing the earlier stages of Prior’s way to
the welterweight title. In this jeremiad
I hope to be proved entirely wrong, but
on the evidence of the night the patient
is not well and should not be feeling too
comfortable, despite a year’s transfusions
mainly given by Prior and Cowburn.
As I walked down the hill from Kings
Cross to the Stadium the other night I
remembered another crowd, only about a
year ago, going down to the Tin Shed
in thousands, the sloppiest collection of
young weirdos anyone could imagine,
bound for one of the shows that had
been playing the Stadium for some years
while boxing took a very long count
from its promoters. But that “rock”
show was one of the last, and the next
events at the Stadium were Barnes-Cow-
burn and their return match, which Cow-
burn won. These two fights proved that
boxing could still draw, and in the search
for a new opponent for Cowburn a for-
mer amateur named Sid Prior was pro-
moted to main events and sent in against
a former welter champion, Johnny Tapp,
Latch, and then three second- to third-
rate Americans, Ellis, Cota and Steven-
son, drawing nine to ten thousand specta-
tors each time, grossing about £.4000
from his first year. Not bad money, at 19.
In these matches Prior had earned his
shot at Cowburn’s 10.7 title. He knock-
ed out Ellis who had knocked Cow-
burn, and beat Cota who then beat Cow-
burn in Brisbane. Prior almost alone
had restored public interest in profes-
sional boxing, and lifted its Sydney at-
tendances from the one to two thousand
of a year ago to the 12,500 of his title
fight against Cowburn. Starting as a
superbly conditioned, tigerish, but raw
and blundering fighter, he had improved
with every match, learning something
from each of them.
In the process, up to the title fight,
Prior had been described as the Golden
Boy of boxing, a regular Kid Galahad,
and, here and there, an overrated fighter,
and a youth whose head had begun to
swell. Certainly it was a head that had
been hit too often in its first year of pro-
fessional boxing, but it rests on a great
barrel of a body too strong to be
troubled, at this stage, by any signals
of distress from upstairs. Fifteen suc-
cessive fighters have tried to stop Prior,
and some have knocked him down, but
all have had reason to regret it. To hit
Sid Prior is to arouse something wild in
him, something rare among fighters, im-
mediate retaliation every time. Perhaps
only one aged 19, strong in youth, and
never knocked out, could have it to this
degree. He has fought his 12-round
non-title bouts as though still going four
two-minute rounds in the amateurs.
The title match was to be his first
over 15 three-minute rounds, requiring
the condition and stamina and careful
rationing of energy to give and take for
59 minutes, with 14 one-minute rests.
No other physical effort can approach
that of a championship boxing match,
and the mental requirements are no less
excessive, calling for the impossible in
co-ordination for instant strategy. Every
movement of the other boxer is a pro-
blem for immediate solution or the worst
consequences. A batsman facing a dif-
ferent bowler every five seconds would
be lazing in comparison.
If you realise and worry about such
things, a title fight is a serious affair
indeed, the most intense vicarious ex-
perience available to man, and compli-
cated by the fact that men are in there,
liable to be affected by any of a hun-
dred human elements. None of us
walking past the vulgar front of the new
Rushcutter Bowl and Travelodge, cross-
ing the road, and working through the
Stadium crowd, could have foreseen that
both fighters that night would be far
below their best, and who knows why?
Form is one of the glorious uncertainties
of boxing, much as in horseracing
where anything from a change in the
wind to the phase of the moon seems
to affect horses and jockeys. And form,
we were to learn later, was very much
on Sid Prior’s mind at the time. He
felt ill-prepared. But the 8000 of us
inside the Stadium at eight o’clock were
more concerned with the immediate
question, the preliminaries, beginning
with four round bouts and ranging
through some of the up-and-coming
quality to the 10-round semi - windup,
which is intended to leave the spectator
cleansed of all baser emotion and pre-
pared for the high art of the main
event.
Unfortunately a very up-and-coming
featherweight, a rangy boy named Bruce
Pine, refused to co-operate. He took just
three of the scheduled 10 rounds to put
away his opponent. Pine has not been get-
ting the matches he deserves, a not un-
common fate among boxers who look
good enough to knock one of Stadiums
Ltd’s drawcards, and perhaps he was
annoyed. After Pine came the clowns, in
the shape of a substitute 10-rounder with
two boxers who treated the affair as an
exhibition. And after a few minutes of it
the crowd, a tight-packed, quiet, mostly
Smiths and Jones’ crowd, different to the
Latin-peppered Gattellari-Bruce title
night crowd, became derisively angry,
with a spokesman who shouted, “You’re
allowed to hit him, you know”.
It is an experience to sit in a capacity
crowd in such a confined and enclosed
arena as the Stadium. A murmur can
begin vaguely on the heights of Section


A and sweep down and around the
Stadium in a wave as visible as wind
through a wheatfield, sometimes quickly
expended, sometimes gathering force
and being sustained. And there is a
crowd consciousness which communi-
cates without sound and with the speed
of thought. If one man in the crowd
lets partisanship run to his fist, the en-
tire crowd knows at the first punch.
Girls who merit it are whistled by
thousands as one man the second they
become visible in the ringside aisle. And
disapproval 0 f anything can also be im-
mediate. So can humor.
Who Held Les Darcy’s Hand?
rTHERE is no better place to see a box-
A ing match, either. At ringside, where
the writers and broadcasters work, the
angle is at least 45 degrees up from
horizontal and one fighter’s back fre-
quently hides the action. So does the
whole of the referee. From the bleach-
ers you see it all, before and during and
after the fight. When Prior and his
manager came in error to Cowburn’s
side of the ringside and Prior hesitated,
turned to walk around the aisle to reach
his own steps up to the ring. Ron James
took his hand and led him up and into
the rim? h'ke a boy. That was part of
the night, but only the bleachers and a
little of ringside saw it. Did anyone ever
hold Les Darcy’s hand, I wonder? And
how many ringside noticed Prior’s father
kiss him when he’d won the fight?
While Prior loosened his green silken
gown with its white SID PRIOR
GREENACRE, Gary Cowburn climbed
into the ring and gave the crowd an un-
certain half salute, and the fight was as
good as over. Cowburn is a boxer who
has good nights, and also bad ones when
he is all uncertainty, with a lethargy that
probablv stems from it. This is not rare
in aborigine fighters. Cowburn is out-
wardlv calm almost to the point of
woodenness, and five words are a tor-
rent of speech for him, but the expres-
sion seems to be one of fatalism, not
dullness.
I believe we, the crowd, knew it was
not going to be Cowburn’s night, and
perhaps even feared for him, regarding
h>s slim frame and remembering the
tiger Prior in other fights. There were
onlv scattered boos instead of the usual
gale of them when Vic Patrick entered
the ring and called the champion and
contender together. The Stadium lights
were doused. Latecomers to the fight,
mostly of the business suit and white
shirt and slim tie varietv, were stream-
ing into the outer ringside area. And
the cigarette drifted under the ring flood-
lights in a pale blue fog.
When the bell rang, nothing very re-
markable happened, and nothing much
continued to happen for three rounds.
And by then it was clear that it was not
a normal night for Prior. A few weeks
earlier he had raged out at the second
bell and put J. D. Ellis on his back in
nothing flat. A few months earlier, Cow-
burn on a good night had rolled George
Barnes almost heels over head in the
second round. But on this night Prior
was entirely tentative until the fourth
round when he scored a knockdown by
rushing Cowburn to the ropes and
through the ropes. Cowburn rose stiffly,
took some time to realise that he did
not have to take a compulsory count of
eight (in a championship match), and
weathered the round without any real
opposition from Prior.
From then to the end in round 15
Prior scored six more knockdowns, but
seemed unable to finish the job. And
even Patrick seemed bemused. Twice
Cowburn gripped Prior’s glove under
his arm and waltzed till he felt better.
Twice Prior pushed Cowburn through
the ropes as clumsily as a four-round pre-
lim boy, once he clipped Cowburn while
the champion was on his knees, once he
hit Cowburn very low, and constantly he
missed with wild hooks that became rab-
bit-killers and materially added to Cow-
burn’s troubles. But Prior was not cau-
tioned for any of these breaches.
Altogether it was an amazing exhibi-
tion from Prior, who used to advocate
clean fighting. He had appeared to have
learned so much in his return fight with
the American negro, Stevenson. On that
previous occasion Prior avoided wild
rushes and amateur footwork, and pro-
duced a battering ram of a left hand
to complement his short, brutal right.
He had looked a potential world beater.
But on this night, any of several local
welterweights could have bothered him,
including Trevor Christian and Chris-
tian’s recent victor, Tommy Collins in
Melbourne.
Cowburn lifted his effort for a while
after round six, when he sat on the can-
vas and considered whether to go on or
not. He got up and went on, until he
came out for the last round with no de-
fence for Prior’s expected final burst.
Patrick stopped the fight as soon as
Cowburn’s knee touched canvas again.
And the crowd, which had begun all
for Prior, and had swung to Cowburn,
gave the new champion a very mild
approval. In my experience there is no
better judge in these matters than a Syd-
ney fight crowd.
That was the end of the action, but
not of the fight, which is not over until
all of the post mortems are in. And
these, next day, included reports of bit-
ter complaint from manager Reg Layton
about Cowburn’s pace, by Sid Prior
about everything except his own error
in overtraining for this one, and by one
writer who declared that George Barnes
in his heyday could have taken both
fighters on the same night. Vic Patrick
added a warning that Prior still had
much to learn, and should spend the rest
of this year out of the ring and im-
proving his technique.
If I may join the pundits, I feel that
Prior should spend some of the £2OOO
he grossed the other night on a trip
to the USA purely to spar with some
classy American fighters and gain a
correct perspective of his own ability.
Professionals in other sports do it. It is
a quick way of learning.
A New Syndicate
An important aftermath of the title fight
has been the emergence of a new
syndicate in Sydney, allegedly prepared
to promote open air fights in opposi-
tion to Stadiums Ltd. The idea is to
bring world junior welter champion Dui-
lio Loi here to fight Prior.
Some opposition for the Stadiums
monopoly would be welcomed by a
dozen or so potentially good fighters
whom The Firm will keep in reserve if it
has its way, or keep in Melbourne, or
Sydney, until they grow long white
beards waiting for Messrs. Lean, Miller
and Potts to realise they have respon-
sibilities beyond their own whims.
Stadiums Ltd. knows only one way
of doing anything—the easy way. Its
sense of publicity is 50 years behind the
times. It advertises its matches in two
or three inches in the newspapers, never
condescending to tell the customers
which fighters are engaged in the pre-
liminaries. A swift kick in the box of-
fice would do wonders.
I hope it comes, but if any hopes
are to be pinned on Loi fighting Prior,
this had better happen very soon, be-
cause in another three to six months
Prior will be a middleweight for all time.
After intensive training he weighed in
exactly eight ounces below the welter limit
against Cowburn. He is a growing boy.
And as a middle, who will he fight?
Stadiums’ restful champion Peter Read?
And then?


The Brilliant Student
He looked about hint, blinking . What was he doing here? In this
khaki-colored school on the windy coast, staring at a roomful of kids
with peeling faces . . .
A
Story
By E. A. Gollschewsky
t a attained greater eminence on less
than he had started out with. Why
haun't he ever amounted to anything?
“Boyd is the clever one. He’s got all
the brains in this family,” they used to
say, proud of the boy who won scholar-
ships with such ease. With seven other
children to feed, rear and educate, his
parents could never have afforded to
pay for the higher education his brains
won for him. And it all came so easily.
Why, then, were those sisters and
brothers better off today than he was?
And not only better off materially, but
happier, leading, somehow, what he could
only think of as fuller lives?
How his mother’s tired eyes had
brightened when she spoke of him!
“Boyd will never be ai laborer like his
father,” she said. “He's a brilliant lad.
Someday he’ll be in a high position, with
money and influence and everything. His
teachers all say the same thing—he’ll go
a long way . . .” her faith in him, her
confidence in his future, were candles
of brightness in her drab life.
“You’ll all be kow-towing to Boyd
yet,” she’d threaten her family ferociously
when they trooped off to some diversion,
leaving him behind to study. Her voice
followed them out through the ricketty
gate and along the pavement: “You’ll
come crawling to him some day, all right.
For soft jobs. You’ll come crawling to
Boyd.”
But she’d been wrong. Which only
goes to prove how wrong mothers can be
about the chosen, the gifted child.
Here he was in charge of the desolate
Sea Spit School (a dead end if ever there
was one!) with a staff of two. The bril-
liant scholar who had shown such re-
markable ability had not fulfilled his
promise. He hated the life here.
He hated the township clustered un-
tidily on the sandy hills beside the bay;
the salt-sharpened winds which swept it
SOMETIMES, when his room was
particularly quiet, and the book-
slamming, foot-stamping, chant-
ing of lessons, bursts of laughter,
and Whimm’s voice raised in anger from
the big, general classroom next door was
not so intrusive as usual, and Mrs
Chartre’s piano-playing for the tiny tots’
Learning By Doing activities was not
practically shaking the building off its
high blocks, he dozed in a half-dream,
half-memory of the past. The promise of
those days was so reassuringly real, then,
that it was with a start of surprise he
awoke to the present.
He looked about him, blinking. What
was he doing here? In this khaki-colored
school on the windy coast, staring at a
roomful of kids with peeling faces (in
early summer they always stayed too
long in the water, forgot their hats, paid
no attention to the increasing heat of
the sun), listening to the soughing of the
bunya pines planted as a break for the
sea-wind on the eastern side of the play-
ground?
Fully awake, he became aware of other
things. The infiltrating smek of phenyle
mixed with the sourness of ripe lunch-
boxes ; that taste of chalk in the air ; and
when the wind blew along the verandah
at the back, it brought with it the musty
aroma of stale urine. How often had he
lodged complaint with the Department
about the unwholesome proximity of the
boys toilet block? But nothing was ever
done.
His gaze washed unseeingly over the
class before him. He should have been
anywhere but here. Head of a city High
School, perhaps, or lecturing at St Lucia.
Even Minister for Education —other men
continually; the isolation of it empha-
sised by the heavily-timbered ranges at
its back.
He loathed the struggling, hungry little
farms to the north of Sea Spit, where
the soil was better. Landowning, he con-
sidered, should be on a large scale. He
despised these frugally worked holdings,
and the dirty, old-fashioned sugar-m.d
where the cane crops were turned into
raw sugar, clanging and stenching and
belching its way through annual crushing
seasons.
He hated the school itself, with its in-
adequate space and its hopeless play-
ground where everything planted on
Arbor Day withered and died in the
burning heat of the white sand and the
eternal salt spray blown from the ocean.
Only the bunyas flourished, and the
oleanders round the tankstands And the
committee members, of course. A
healthier pack of narrow-minded bastards
you never saw, was his opinion.
TTE was lonely, that was his trouble.
The staff was just what you'd ex-
pect in a place like this. Mrs Chartre, a
sixtyish widow and invaluable with the
littlies, according to the Department.
Boyd knew only that she’d found his
cache of whisky in the press and, humili-
atingly, made no reference to it. For all
the world as if it were no concern of
hers.
Whimm was no better. Unforgivably
young and full of shy goodwill, abound-
ing vitality and considerable skill in
sport. The damned kids idolised him, and
the Department undoubtedly had an eye
on him for promotion.
That was where boot-licking got you,
he thought viciously, fully aware now of
the swell of unmusical voices reciting
“Bellbirds” with painful monotony.
He noticed that some of the pupils were


Established 18G8
Contractors to Government Municipal ,
shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
,osuluvan
PTY LTD
'J-tjfii eK'^Sf
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & C*.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE ANO FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC printers
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
mouthing words, pretending they know
the poem when they didn’t.
They sound like a flock of bloody
squarking seagulls, he thought dis-
gustedly. This Eighth-grade room was
stifling in the long, hot afternoons of
summer. Facing the west, it caught
directly the full blaze of the sun through
unshaded windows. It always fell to
him because he taught the highest class
and kids studying for the Scholarship
needed a room of their own.
Sweating children —even well-scrubbed
ones —have a vaguely teddy-bearish
aroma all their own. These were by no
means all clean children, and Boyd felt
stifled by the heat and the combined
smells of his stuffy schoolroom. Stale
fruit, ointment, unwashed heads, sweat,
dirty feet, hair oil (Californian Poppy,
surely?), pencils, blackboards and
erasers. Surreptitious caramels, cheap
carnation talcum powder, ink ... he
could pick out the odors separately, not
forgetting the careless, offensive breaking
of wind which is apt to unexpectedly
foul any classroom.
HPhe voices ground to a stop. Like uncer-
A tain feet shuffling along a dusty
road, not sure which direction to take.
Like Molly, trying to attract his atten-
tion as she pottered about their bedroom
in next to nothing, overtly glancing at
his face to read its expression, and away
again when she found no flicker of re-
sponse. Hopeful, nervous, pretty Molly,
unsure of herself, of her attraction for
him, of their marriage ... he knew she
often wondered if he were unfaithful,
so few were his demands.
He rose from the corner of the table
where he’d been sitting, one leg swinging,
a short cane bent between his hands. He
used the stick merely as a pointer and,
perhaps, as a symbol of his mastery.
Parents were always delighted to hear
that he didn’t believe in using it on the
pupils. Didn’t in fact, believe in striking
any child, for any reason.
Brutality, he took pains to explain
from the first, was a totally unnecessary
adjunct to teaching. At least, that was
his experience.
Grown slight, grey, precise and des-
potic in service, his experience was clearly
something to be reckoned with. Parents
are reassured and grateful beyond reason
when a non-hitting head takes over the
school attended by their children.
Young Whimm, for instance, was much
too fond of cracking down on unwary
knuckles with a ruler, or of landing a
thump between a pair of shoulderblades
that sent the owner sprawling.
“No more ot that, now. Mr Whimm,”
Boyd would intervene gently. “Patience,
man I’ll have no child ill-treated in my
school.” It was iust one of the inexplic-
able things about children that they all
adored Whimm, punishing swipes and
all.
Mow the head teacher teetered forward
on the heavy soles of his highly
polished shoes, shoulders stooped from
overlong hours spent at a desk, suit im-
peccable as ever, moustache neatly
trimmed. He was determined not to fall
into the trap he’d seen close on others
whose careers had come to a full stop.
They let themselves go, showing in sloppy
personal habits the first sign of mental
deterioration. Teachers at isolated schools
answerable to nobody but themselves and
an inspector who paid hurried visits once
or twice a year, had to be particularly
careful.
Especially if they were drinking too
much.
His very blue, slightly protuberant
eyes were on his daughter’s face. He said
reasonably, “Why were you not reciting
with the others, Laurel?”
She flushed guiltily, as usual when he
singled her out. And as usual, he was
infuriated by her agitation. At 14 she
was too fat, agonizingly self-conscious,
beginning to look a bit like a nutmeg
grater across the forehead. But a
shiningly clean child, and a good example
to the others in her way of dress and
her manners —Molly saw to that.
“Please, sir, I don’t know it. I did
know it —at least, in parts —I thought I
did—” confusion swamped her. She
ducked her head and he found the snowy,
straight part in her dark hair facing
him, the glossy plaits swinging forward
beside her cheeks.
He sighed. English was her worst sub-
ject. For although she was not a clever
girl, she got by in the others with the
help of home coaching. Only in English
was she actually below average. Simple
words became wildly entangled when she
spelt them. Rules of grammar defeated
her. She was not interested in literature.
But if he castigated her in private, his
attitude before the class was always one
of firm impartiality. He wouldn’t humili-
ate himself by discrediting her before
this roomful of greedily listening, gossipy
brats. A teacher’s child is expected to do
well at school. Parents tend to judge his
ability as a teacher by the standard
achieved by his children. Well, Laurel
was no help to him there.
“Do any of you know it all the way
through?” he asked mildly, aware that
if they didn’t Laurel’s fault would be
mitigated.
Margaret Searle’s hand shot up, to
be followed by a few others. He might
have known.
“It must be familiar to you all by the
end of the week. The first quarterly exam,
starts on Monday. It will show just what
you’ve been doing with your time at
school.”
It was the end of the day. Cases were
scraped out from beneath desks, books
thrust into them, whispers exchanged.
Chalk motes floated through the rays
of the setting sun, shimmering in dusty
bars across the advancing shadows He
dismissed the class, even those previ rusiv
told to stay in. He was in no mood to
dispense either extra tuit'or- or punish-
ment.
“Good afternoon, boys and girls,” he
returned equably to their chanted chorus.
They shuffled off relievedly, Laurel self-
important at the head of the class. If it
mystified her schoolfellow's from time
to time that she always gained top marks,
it also came as a pleasant surprise to
Laurel and one she never questioned. In
fact, as she grew older she began to
accept top place in class as her right
and her due. Margaret Searle stuck to
her side like a burr, in second place.
“If Laurel only had half her brains!”
he’d said once to his wife. “A girl like
that—with none of Laurel’s advantages
—you should see the way she comes to
school. Hair never washed, let alone


brushed, no shoes even in winter. I hear
ts!e mother’s not up to much and the
father’s away most of the time. Nine kids
m tfiat shack near the beach. Think ol
it And this peaky-faced rat comes from
that sewer to sit in my classroom and
know everything almost without any
teaching at all. She’s a born dux.” He
aclded irrelevantly. “Her nose needs
attention. It leaks continually. She sniffs.”
Molly gave him a puzzled look. “Why
should we worry? She’s never beaten
Laurel yet. She can’t be as clever as all
that.”
His eyes had never been bleaker.
“That’s right. Laurel manages to beat her
by a few marks. Every time.”
“And hasn’t she grown! She needs all
new clothes again. I’ve meant to ask
about getting them.”
“But she’s had those no time!”
“It’s the sea air, I expect. Anyway,
we can be thankful she’s so healthy.”
He spat out a mumbled word. She
was apologetic. “I'm sorry about the ex-
pense, Boyd. They wouldn’t cost nearly
as much if I could make them myself,
but I’m such an idiot.”
“Well, parcel them up. They’re too
good to waste. I’ll send somebody over
to the house for them.”
“Of course.” Her brown eyes were
loving. She often told him he was too
kindly and considerate of others for
this world with its eat or be eaten creed.
“How like you, darling, to think of it.
But you’re always thinking of others —
I expect that’s why you're such a success.”
ttf, shot her a searching glance but her
expression was without guile. She
really thought he was a success! At
fifty, washed up on this empty shore, he
was, to her, a successful man. But then,
of course, she was going by the hand-
some presents they’d received from the
districts they left. The rearing stallions
in bronze, the rugs, the wallets, the silver
sandwich trays. Parents and committees
always thought well of Boyd and showed
their regard in a practical fashion. It was
all Molly needed.
“Whom did you have in mind, dear?
Some people are touchy about hand-me-
downs, and we wouldn’t want any feel-
ing, would we?” She was careful never
to tread on any toes. Molly, no less
than he, earned the generous departing
gift of each district they left. “What
about the Cunningtons? There are four
girls in that family.”
“Yes. But keep back some for Mar-
garet Searle. She’s attending school in
rags these days. Hardly decent.”
“Margaret? She is smaller than Laurel
though they’re the same age. But —will
she look after them properly, d’you
think?”
“That’s got nothing to do with it.”
“Of course not. How thoughtful you
are, Boyd.” He wished to God she
wouldn’t beam at him. “Laurel will be
pleased. For some reason she’s devoted
to the Searle girl.”
Of course she was. Stupid people
invariably attach themselves to the clever
and gifted, he’d noticed it often. Laurel
simply recognised the waif as a superior
mentality. He sighed for Molly’s blind-
ness, wondering how far it was self-
imposed as a protection from the truth.
He called Margaret Searle back after
school that day. She stood before his
table, a bony girl with elongated arms
and legs, the joints of elbows and knees
prominent. Her chest was concave,
reminding him of the well-developed
bulges Laurel was already displaying.
She had a peaked, vigilant expression,
and behind the eyes lay a knowingness
that made him cough, turning his face
away.
Finally, he rearranged the inkwell,
pencils, exercise books, pencil sharpener,
ash-tray. Then he began pleasantly.
“I have here some of Laurel’s clothes
for you, Margaret. You’ll find them
much more suitable for school than
those lacy, bedraggled things you’ve
been wearing.”
“They were given to me, too, sir.” A
satirical glint in the green eyes? No
squirming, as once, long ago, he’d
squirmed under the acid sarcasms of a
sadistic teacher who resented him, and
whose pleasure it was to provoke the
whole class into laughing at him .. .
“Keep these clean, Margaret. Soap’s
cheap. Water’s plentiful. And be clean
in your personal habits —” Briefly in the
air hung a picture of a tin bowl, a bench
on a sagging back verandah, the sour
smell of old soapsuds, a damp, grey towel
—a picture real enough to pupil and
teacher. “Taking particular care with
your head. In this climate—you know
what head vermin are.”
“Yes, sir.”
Mo flinching. Only a slow whitening of
the face so that the freckles stood
out upon it like grains of sand. “I
realise conditions at home may not be
easy—” but then, outshining his
daughter in every way! His daughter!
And what was immeasurably worse,
having that daughter befriend her! “But
I do expect an improvement in general
appearance from now on. You under-
stand, my dear?”
“Yes, sir.”
He dismissed her. She hadn’t thanked
him. There was gratitude for you. Hadn’t
he been forced to accept charity for
years? Eaten dirt? With Uncle Foster
everlastingly reminding him that it was he
who was paying for the cheap, ugly
clothes Boyd wore all through the non-
earning years of study. He’d had to
acount for every worn-out garment. Had
to give the things meticulous care. “Don’t
spill gravy on that sweater, boy. Who
paid for it, eh?” What he had endured,
others could.
Daily, then, Margaret arrived wearing
the neat, dark tunic, the white blouse,
hair combed back from her bony fore-
head. The other children seemed not to
notice the change in her, or, if they did,
accepted it as they accept so much in
changing lives.
On the following Monday the class sat
silent before the first paper of the exam-
ination, the English one. It was not
popular, and he missed none of the
tortured wriggles, chewed pencils, implor-
ing eyes fixed on the ceiling or unseeingly
on the sketch of the Endeavour hanging
over the bookcase. Through the open
windows came the ocean-smell of sea-
weed, sand, rocks and salt water ; the
sound of water rolling flatly on the
beach nearby; the lazy movement of
bunya pines soughing in the breeze.
He saw his daughter sidle closer to
Margaret—caught the quick gamin grin
Margaret flashed her as she accommoda-
tingly moved her arm for Laurel’s con-
venience—and he read clearly the
indifferent generosity of the gesture.
Laurel began to write rapidly.
All children are cheats if they get the
chance, he told himself. But the sour
taste in his mouth would not be swal-
lowed. If he had to be a failure himself
it would have been some recompense to
have an outstanding daughter. Instead,
he had Laurel.
Margaret put down her pen, sat back
with a sigh of satisfaction, and rubbed a
straggling moustache of blue ink across
her lip.
Laurel chewed hard on a knuckle.
Margaret’s book was closed now A
dragonfly hovered at the window, his
rasping wings sounding loud in the
quiet room.
“When papers are completed your
foolscap notebooks will be brought to
my desk, please.”
Margaret came out. She was always
first through. Glancing at her book he
noted automatically the precision and
beautiful order of her answers. No
scratching out. No questions missed.
He glanced up. No mistaking the
triumph in those green eyes, the challenge
to fault this faultless work if he could.
The foolscap shook in his hand as he
lowered it. She turned to go to her
place.
“Margaret—” detaining her with the


(G
HELP
oil the yecr round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney, BM 2001.
REID MURRAY
Registered First Mortgage Debenture Stock*
PAID-UP CAPITAL £7,000,000
Applications accepted only on forms attached to the
Prospectus. Available from:
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 1924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON &. CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William St., Adelaide 408 Collins St., Melb.
Members of Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.
REID MURRAY
GUARANTEED
by Reid Murray Holdings Ltd.
softly spoken name—'“what on earth is
wrong with that tunic you’re wearing?
It seems terribly long.”
It hung below her knees, hemless, with
the frayed raw edge of the navy material
forming a ragged fringe.
'T'hough soft, his voice was very clear
-*■ in the silent room. Every head
lifted, every pencil was still. Margaret
seemed paralysed. Then her eyes
narrowed defiantly, she appeared to brace
herself.
“This was one of the older tunics. It
was too short, even for me. I let it
down.” She struggled on, her face
flaming, then suddenly chalk white. “I —I
had to let it down,” Her bravado was
gone, and she choked, hands gripping
each other behind her back. “I don’t
know how to take a hem up again once
its pulled out —the cotton, I mean —”
The dry whisper died away.
“Obviously.” His thin smile to the
class indicated that this was amusing and
a little hilarity wouldn’t be out of order.
Like cattle who sense that one of their
number is weakening and beaten, they
turned on her.
Titters and sniggers became open
laughter. Unable to move, she stood out
in front w'here they could all see the
ragged hemline. She had nowhere to
hide, nobody to turn to. Her classmates
were enjoying the joke—it had broken the
tension of the past hours and their
laughter had a touch of hysteria about it.
She could only stand and endure, feel-
ing herself an object of ridicule, alienated
from her mates, despised by her school-
fellows. There is no suffering more
intense to a child.
She remained dry-eyed. For a moment
he wondered at the guts of her, refusing
to grovel, not crying at all. It occurred
to him she had some quality he had not
recognised or understood. It didn’t
matter, anyway, he thought. It made no
difference.
Calculating to a nicety the burden he
was laying upon her for all time, mindful
of the crippling handicap he was allotting
(who should know better? Hadn’t it
proved too much for him?), he put out
his hand, dry w'ith its surface dusting of
chalk, and touched her shrinking head.
“A brilliant scholar like you—” he
reproached with a smile, “should know
better.”


OVERSEAS
COMMUNISM AND
LATIN AMERICA
1—A Time For Revolutions
From J. HALCRO FERGUSON
Moscow’s forthright announce-
ment that the Soviet Union will
deliver arms to Cuba to help her
deal with “threats from aggressive im-
perialist elements” does not radically
alter the existing situation. Military
equipment has been reaching Cuba from
the Communist bloc for some time, and,
no doubt, the statement was made to
reassure the Cuban Government after
the recent attack on Havana by two
boatloads of exiles.
Nevertheless, this official announce-
ment from one of the two major seats
of world power serves to emphasise the
extent to which Latin America is now
involved in the cold war. Although Cuba
is the only American republic, so far, to
have thrown in its lot with Communist
countries, the whole continent is going
through a period of social, political and
economic readjustment, which is rapidly
eliminating its former parochialism. The
surprising fact is that Communism did
not appear seriously on the local scene
long ago.
The reason for the present uncertain
state of Latin America is that when most
of the republics achieved their indepen-
dence from Spain and Portugal, over a
century ago, there was no corresponding
change in the internal structure of their
societies. Sovereignty was transferred
from Europe to Buenos Aires, Rio,
Mexico City and other trans-Atlantic
capitals, but local power remained in the
hands of Spanish- or Portuguese-des-
cended landowners, backed by armies
trained in the hierarchical Iberian tradi-
tion.
Most of the population, whether of
indigenous, African, European or mixed
origin, remained rural, exploited and
politically powerless, while the urban
middle class, clustered in the few big
cities, was too small to initiate the bour-
geois revolution which occurred in
Western Europe. Many of them in addi-
tion were foreign French, German,
British and kept aloof from local
politics.
This time lag was increased because,
for historical, geographical and geolo-
gical reasons, Latin America only very
recently began the industrial develop-
ment which transformed society in
Europe and the US.
Mexico had a social revolution in
1910, which became officially “institu-
tionalised” in 1945, but it was a slow
and bloodstained process, and happened
almost in isolation in a country which
still retained its pre-Spanish “Indian”
heritage.
It is really only in the last two de-
cades that the other republics have com-
menced to break away from the stulti-
fying effects of their former colonial
.status. These were the perpetuation of
internal inequality, and external depen-
dence on the export of raw materials in
exchange for almost all manufactured
goods a system which made the rich
richer and the poor poorer. The vast
distances, and the barriers of mountain
and jungle, also discouraged change.
This situation might have seemed
ideally suited to Communist penetration,
but in the period between the Russian
Revolution of 1917 and the Cuban Revo-
lution of 1959, this was little in evi-
dence, except in the imagination of the
frightened ruling classes. Partly, this
was due to the natural conservatism of
rural populations, partly to the influ-
ence of the Catholic Church, and partly
to the Communists, who were too busy
elsewhere to extend themselves in Latin
America, as well as being doctrinally in-
hibited from co-operation with progres-
sive forces in the countries concerned.
Of these, apart from the revolutionary
regime in Mexico, there were several.
Some, like the Radicals in Argentina and
the Liberals in Colombia, achieved power
only to abandon the more radical parts
of their programmes, and to fall out
amongst themselves. Others, notably
APRA (Alianza Popular Revolucionaria)
in Peru, retained their revolutionary
dynamic, but were driven underground
and harassed at every turn by succes-
sive right-wing Governments. In vast,
multi-racial Brazil, the largest of the re-
publics, the dictator Getulio Vargas
(1930-1945) owed a great deal of his
following to his espousal of the cause
of the urban workers, but did little for
the peasantry—particularly those of the
drought-bedevilled North-East who
were, and still are, in far worse plight.
Characteristically, in Argentina, the
Communists, along with the Radicals and
the Socialists, opposed Peron in the 1945
elections, but they gave him some support
once he was in power. This, however,
was almost irrelevant, since the Com-
munist Party was small and lacked the
purely nationalist appeal of the Peron-
istas—a handicap which the Communists
are only just beginning to overcome in
Latin America.
Another factor in growing Latin
American sympathy for the Soviet
achievements was increasing disenchant-
ment with the US, caused by the ineptness
in dealing with Latin America of the
Truman and Eisenhower Administrations.
After all the grand words about the Four
Freedoms, Washington seemed to buttress
the most tyrannical dictatorships, notably
those of Rojas Pinilla in Colombia
(D'3-57) and Perez Jimenez in Vene-
zeula (1948-58). And any shortcomings
of the US, of course, benefited the Com-
munists.
In 1954, in Guatemala, the US played
their hand for them. In that year the
elected Government of Dr. Jacobo Ar-
benz Guzman was openly overthrown by
the US, on the grounds that it had been
infiltrated by the Communists. So it had,
( Continued on Page 29)


but to most Latin Americans that was
Guatemala’s business, and what they
noticed more was that the Washington-
backed putsch preserved the threatened
privileges of the country’s largest land-
owner, the United Fruit Company of
Boston, Massachusetts.
The significance of Cuba is that, at
last, Communist policy in Latin America
has changed. Since 1959, for the first
time, an orthodox Communist Party has
officially allied itself with a movement
which was none of its making,
and which initially it could not be
sure of dominating, the Movimiento 26
de Julio, led by the unpredictable Fidel
Castro. It has furthermore backed a
regime which is outspokenly nationalist
and Latin American, and not necessarily
capable of control by Moscow. It was
an enormous gamble. It has paid off so
far in Cuba. Will it do so elsewhere in
Latin America?
• NEXT WEEK: Meeting The
Challenge
Arms and America —3
DANGER TO
TRADITIONAL
FREEDOMS?
Problems without answers
By NORA BELOFF
Tt remains, in this last i rticle, to see
how far the ever-increasing military
establishment has altered the mentality
of the American people.
Such dedication of American energies
and resources L military preparedness
was something wholl new in American
experience: and it changed the outward
appearances rf American society less
than might have been expected. So far,
at least, there lies been no fulfilment of
President Eisenhower’s grim prediction
that, if the all-out spending spree on
weapons was allowed to continue as
has happened the United States would
inevitably turn into “a garrison state”.
Having, in the past 12 months,
travelled widely in the United States
(from Boston and New York to Phoenix
and San Francisco) and in the
USSR (from Leningrad to the frontiers
of Afghanistan) I can report that the
military presence, the conspicuousness of
the uniform, the security restrictions, and
the almost pathological fear of spies are
salient features of Soviet rather than
American society.
The dangers underlined by President
Eisenhower’s farewell address of the mili-
tary-industrial complex wielding “un-
warranted influence” in America is, in-
deed, probably less acute now than it
was under Republican rule. Mr Ken-
nedy and his Defence Secretary, Mr
McNamara, are notoriously better at
keeping their subordinates in order.
There are still, of course, as every-
body in Washington knows, constant and
direct links between the military estab-
lishment and the political world, which
do not go through either the White House
or the Defence Secretary’s office. And
there are quite certainly still, as General
Eisenhower used to say, “too many of
these generals with all scrts of ideas”
and “too much noisy trumpeting about
dazzling military schemes” — in fact
probably rather more of these now that
space projects are so prominent. But,
nonetheless, decision-making is in firmer
hands.
What is true, however, is that the new
Administration has taken charge of the
“military-industrial complex” all the
more easily and authoritatively as it
shares their general conviction that
America needs, and can afford, a bigger,
better and more varied panoply of arma-
ments to deal with the ever-present
Communist menace. The military chiefs,
though deprived of some of their pet
schemes, can hardly complain against
such open-handed masters.
No one could accuse President Ken-
nedy or Mr McNamara of having any
private monetary interest in boosting
military spending. Both are profoundly
— some people say obsessively — pro-
ocupied with the risks of nuclear war.
Neither would concede the least virtue
in brinkmanship. Nonetheless both share
a basic belief in the innate and inveterate
Communist aggressiveness and the con-
sequent need to keep the United States
permanently ready for hostilities, at any
time, in any place. When Mr McNamara
said in his speech last June at Ann
Arbor: “We are living in the shadow
of the Sino-Soviet drive for world
domination,” he meant it.
Hatred of Communism is, of coi rse,
nothing new in the US and ; t first ex-
panded into the main driving force of
American society in response to the
Soviet take-over of Eastern Europe after
the last war. Once the “cold war” had
turned into an all-out arms race, how-
ever, the creed became its constant and
indispensable justification. Power could
not, in the American mind, be an end
in itself. Nor could the need for huge
standing armies be accepted as “normal”.
The intrinsic wickedness of America’s
potential enemy was the ethical founda-
tion for such a strange distortion of
national effort. It is characteristic of
this state of mind that the totally false
analogy Hitler-Khrushchev, Nazis-Com-
munists is constantly being propounded
both inside and outside the present Ad-
ministration; it conclusively proves that
American might is right.
On this issue there is no split between
the Republicans and Democrats except
in so far as they have struggled to outbid
each other in their anti-Cor imunist zeal.
Mr Kennedy fought a good deal of his
election campaign on the military weak-
nesses of the Eisenhower Administration,
notably emphasising the “missile gap”
wrongly alleged, at the time, to be separ-
ating th„ United States from the Soviet
Union.
Although the Democratic Party is
dedicated to the ideal of collective re-
sponsibility for welfar. and full employ-
ment it differs from the chief European
socialist parties in having no pacifist or
anti-militarist tradition. On the con-
trary, as Professor Huntington of Colum-
bia University has pointed out in his
recent book THE COMMON DE-
FENCE, th. Democrats with their tradi-
tional labor followers support cheap
money and Government intervention,
whereas the Republicans, representing
business, advocate less government and
lower taxes. This, he says, means that
“Democratic voters apparently tend to
be more partial than Republicans to a
high level of defence spending”.
Since the Democrats have taken power,
it is the Republicans who have taken the
more militant anti-Communist line. In-
deed the chief domestic criticism comes
from people who preach a more pugnaci-
ous policy and denounce the President
and his friends for feebleness and ap-
peasement. The President was even told
to his face by a right-wing newspaper
publisher that he was riding his daughter
Carolines tricycle, whereas what the
Americans needed was “a man on a
white horse”.
The cr> for a more militantly anti-
Communist policy is the keynote of the
new “declaration of Republican prin-
ciples” sponsored by the right-wing lead-
er, Senator Barry Goldwater, which af-
firms that the world, “cannot indefinitely
remain part Communist and part free .
The document denounces the President,
among other things, for his hesitation in
resuming nuclear tests, his “whimpering
vacillation over Laos, and “the tragic
timidity of those who withheld needed
support from the Cuban patriots dis-
patched to free their country”.
The Republicans in their turn are con-
stantly spurred on and outdone by their
own Radical Right, riding the crest of
anti-Communism and exploiting the ac-
celeration of the arms race to argue that,
“the war has already begun”, and that
the “Reds will soon be in control of
America” unless the United States adopts
the authoritarian and ultra-conservative
policies they describe as “true blue”.
These are the people who identify any


social welfare with liberalism —with
Socialism with Communism with
high treason.
The fact that so much of the country
is involved in the arms race seems to
make people abnormally receptive to
the more violent forms of hate propa-
ganda—though I have met American
mothers who deeply object to having
their own children inculcated with hatred
as soon as they go to school.
Problems of the Radical Right
extremist political movements
(it has been calculated that there are
now more than a thousand, issuing regu-
lar publications) have many of the quali-
ties of pre-war European Fascism. Until
they find themselves a leader and sink
their rivalries, however, it seems improb-
able they can exercise a mass appeal.
But as a pressure group, with a strong
streak of religious and ideological fan-
aticism, they effectively challenge and
restrain rational though; on the nature
of the modern world —and the horrors
of modern war.
And while there is money galore for
the TV and radio programmes, news-
papers, periodicals, pamphlets and scan-
dal sheets of the extreme Right, the
journals of the radical Left are wither-
ing away. Anti-Communism is, in fact,
not only a money-getting cause, but
also a money-making one: a seller of
dog food on the West Coast told an
American news magazine that he had
used all the more irresistible forms of
advertising his products on TV: jingles,
jazz, Westerners, but found none of
them as rewarding as “the Dan Smoot
Report”—a series of talks by a protagon-
ist of extreme anti-Communist views who
specialises in bloodcurdling accounts of
Communist infiltration into the Ameri-
can Establishment.
The need to appear as anti-Communist
as the next man is in fact producing a
depressing conformity in most Ameri-
can publications. Although McCarthy-
ism is a thing of the past, the new and
much more widely based expansion of
extremist groups, notably in the West
and South-west, makes it socially or pro-
fessionally unwise to air unorthodox
views.
This climate of opinion is sedulously
fostered by many of the regular officers
of the American armed forces. It is
just a year ago since Senator Fulbright,
the chairman of the Senate Foreign Re-
lations Committee, drew the Govern-
ment’s attention to two risks this in-
volved: first, that members of the armed
forces are being used by the right-wing
groups publicly to propagate bellicose
policies, and secondly that they are in-
doctrinating their own soldiers, notably
the conscripts, with their own diehard
views.
In a memorandum address to the
Pentagon and leaked by his political
enemies to the Press, Senator Fulbright
warned: “If the military is infected with
the virus of rightist radicalism, then the
danger is worthy of attention. If it be-
lieves the public is, the danger is en-
hanced. If by the process of the military
‘educating’ the public the fever of both
groups is raised, the danger is great
indeed.”
The Senator’s initiative, though it pro-
voked roars of political indignation,
spurred effective action in what came to
be called “the muzzling” of the gen-
erals: a procedure which came to
a head in the reprimand and resignation
of General Edwin Walker, former Com-
mander of American troops in Germany.
The General had not only expounded
his own militantly right-wing views, he
had also advised his troops on the anti-
Communist, anti-Socialist criteria they
should apply to election candidates.
General Walker’s efforts, since re-
signing from the Army, to run for Gov-
ernor of Texas, as a way of mobilising
opinion against his civilian chiefs, ended
in total fiasco. The tradition of civilian
supremacy and the deeprooted American
irreverence towards “high brass” was
triumphantly vindicated ae it had been
ten years previously when President
Truman slapped down General Douglas
MacArthur.
Nonetheless, the political involvement
of military officers is not yet wholly ex-
tinct. At a “Freedom Forum” held last
May at the fundamentalist Harding Col-
lege (mainly financed by Texan oil mil-
lionaires) which I attended at Searcy,
Arkansas (Senator Fulbright’s home
State) one of the speakers was an active
Army officer, and several others gave
the prestige of their uniform to a gather-
ing which heard apocalyptic warnings
that if President Kennedy continued with
“socialisation” at home and “coexistence”
abroad, America would be Communist
12 years from now.
An All-Embracing Phobia
Senior officers last May reminded a
Congressional committee that the
Army still retains its special responsibility
for indoctrinating American conscripts. A
civilian and military panel, which in-
cludes the former Central Intelligence
Agency chief, Mr Allan Dulles, was set
up after Senator Fulbright had sounded
his warning, to report by the end of this
year on how this should be done. I was
given a complete “kit” of books, maps
and pamphlets being used in the mean-
time to instil hatred into young recruits.
This all-embracing phobia, sponsored
and promoted by the vast military estab-
lishment and warmly endorsed by the
general public, has made serious inroads
into American traditions of freedom and
tolerance. ■
A significant warning against “the
corrosive effects upon liberty of exag-
gerated military power” was given earlier
this year by no less a personality than
Chief Justice Earl Warren of the
Supreme Court. Addressing the law
school of New York University, Mr
Warren noted that “the role of the mili-
tary has been a troublesome problem for
every nation that has aspired to a free
political life”, and he outlined the many
occasions on which the courts, with
varying degrees of success, had been
called in to protect the individual against
the military, or against the civilian gov-
ernment acting in the name of military
security.
The Chief Justice predicted that “our
enormous national commitment to de-
fence will, of course, pose still added
difficulties for the country,” and he
urged the public to remember that, “our
freedom needs to be protected not only
against deliberate destruction, but also
against unwitting erosion.”
The Tradition of Dissent
Referring to the American tradition of
civilian supremacy and the rule of
law, Mr Warren concluded that, “though
the danger inherent in the existence of a
huge military establishment may well
continue to grow, we need have no feel-
ing of hopelessness.”
But whereas in America the tradition
of dissent and respect for human dignity
has certainly survived a battering, could
we be sure that if Europeans set up a
thermonuclear military establishment on
a similar scale, the less deeply-rooted de-
mocratic institutions of France or Ger-
many would not crumble under its
weight? It is a risk to which the liberals
who want the Europeans to try and match
American power seem to have given
singularly little thought.
The military and right-wing lobbies
exercise pressure not only on US domes-
tic business, but also on the conduct of
its foreign policy. It is common know-
ledge in diplomatic circles in Washing-
ton that in an election year, for instance,
no Administration can afford to make
any apparently conciliatory gesture to
the Communist bloc or even to the
neutrals. In Britain or France, on the
other hand, a peace move would help
a political leader at the polls.
Congress itself is highly sensitive to
these considerations. Characteristically,
last year, after voting thousands of mil-
lions of extra dollars on defence with-
out a murmur, it ruthlessly reduced by
half the total sum of sl3 million re-
quested by the Government to finance its
new Control and Disarmament Agency.
Senator Joseph Clark, of Pennsylvania,
earlier this year forecast that even if
President Kennedy did manage to nego-
tiate a disarmament agreement with the
Russians at Geneva, Congress would pro-
bably turn it down.


11 111 t™
YUI
su
*■
X
This is Eurooa at the foot of the Albert Memorial (1872), staring out at the
strange woricl of nine decades later. In August The Times Literary
Supplement published an important special number on the vast extension
overseas of our own language and literature which this century has seen.
In its issue dated September 21 it fills out the picture with a further special
number dealing both with the part played by other world languages, such as
French and Spanish, and with the wider question of Europe’s cultural
influence in the world. The Commonwealth? Europe? Politically these may
at the moment be rival conceptions, but so far as literature and ideas are
concerned both are parts of a larger whole.
THE
TIMES
LITERARY SUPPLEMENT
ORDER FORM
To:
THE TIMES, AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND OFFICE
21 BOLTON STREET, NEW-
CASTLE, N.S.W. AUSTRALIA
Please enter a year’s subscription to
The Times Literary Supplement, on
my behalf, commencing with a free bonus
copy of ‘Europe Looks Outwards’.
name
(block letters please)
ADDRESS
I enclose £A2 7s. Od
08.
To readers of Bulletin we are pleased to make a
special introductory offer of a FREE copy of
‘Europe Looks Outwards’ with each new
subscription to THE TIMES LITERARY SUPPLEMENT;
it will be mailed to you from London as soon as your
order arrives there, iogether with the first of your
52 subscription issues. Please fill in the coupon.
LETTERS TO THE
EDITOR
SANT AM ARIA MOVES NORTH
Sir,
It is regrettable that Mr James Fen-
nelly, who aired his views in The Bul-
letin, September 8, on the Brisbane re-
production of the Melbourne TV pro-
gramme, “Sunday Magazine”, suffers
from an inclination to manufacture
“facts” at random. In his rambling attack
on Mr Santamaria, the National Civic
Council and its presentation of the pro-
gramme on Brisbane’s Channel 7, Mr
Fennelly (or his professional ghost
writer) claimed that the programme was
arranged without the knowledge or
approval of local Church authorities.
Had he checked h : facts before rush-
ing headlong into print, Mr Fennelly
would have discovered that the question
of presenting a Melbourne religious pro-
gramme in Brisbane was the subject of
correspondence between the Melbourne
Archdiocesan Radio and TV Commit-
tee and His Grace, Archbishop Sir James
Duhig. The programme was made avail-
able for private sponsorship only after
the Archbishop had graciously granted his
approval.
At that point the following letter was
addressed to Dr Percy Jones, President
of the Melbourne Catholic Radio and
Television Committee by the Archbishop:
2nd August, 1962.
“Dear Dr Jones,
In reply to your letter of the 20th
July last, I desire to say that I am
quite agreeable to the programme men-
tioned being used in Brisbane and I
am very grateful to you for making
it available to us. With kindest regards,
I remain, Yours sincerely in Christ,
JAMES DUHIG.”
The National Civic Council simply
exercised its right to sponsor a television
programme which features its own
National President, Mr B. A. Santamaria
and happens, in this case, to be presented
in Melbourne by the Church authorities.
It is obvious that if it were to be
sponsored in Brisbane as an official re-
ligious programme it would have been the
prerogative of the Brisbane Catholic TV
Committee to accept and sponsor it.
Should the Committee ever desire to do
so, the NCC would no doubt be happy
to withdraw. Under the present arrange-
ment, however, it was sufficient that the
Archbishop have previous knowledge and
acquiesce.
When details had been finalised with
Channel 7, a circular letter was sent to
each Parish Priest in the Archdiocese
advising there of the programme and
inviting them to view the session. No
appeal for financial help was made of
the clergy, as claimed, but other corres-
pondence was directed to members of
the Catholic and Protestant laity seeking
their support for a programme designed
to present a sound Christian viewpoint
on public issues of vital interest.
Mr Fennelly also wrote, “The Brisbane
(Catholic TV) Committee had the first
opportunity to discuss the NCC move
on Tuesday of this week, only after
Sunday Magazine was seen last Sunday.
Several members . . . were extremely
hostile to the move.” For Mr Fennelly’s
information, a meeting was scheduled
for Tuesday, but NOT held. This state-
ment is a concoction.
Unlike Mr Fennelly, 1 would not
presume to nominate the attitude of
Archbishop Duhig to the National Civic
Council. When he was asked by the
“Courier Mail” ‘Do you support what
Mr Santamaria is doing?”, he said “1 do.
“We must save Australia at all costs, and
Mr Santamaria has shown us how to do
it.” (“Courier Mail” 23/8/60).
The “facts” used by Mr Fennelly to
buttress his argument are wrong in two
cases, and concocted in one (the non-


Why HOTELing is better
1
S 2
RATES LIKE THESE . . .
Sydney
HAMPTON COURT,
single, with bath, £4.2.6
and watch for MENZIES SYDNEY opening late ’63
Brisbane
LENNONS HOTEL,
single, with bath, from £3.10.0
Toowoomba
LENNONS HOTEL
single, with bath, B. & 8., £2.5.0
Hobart
WREST POINT RIVIERA,
single, with shower, B. & 8., from £3.0.0
Melbourne
SAVOY PLAZA,
single, with batn, from £3.12.6
MENZIES HOTEL,
single, with bath, £4.10.0
HOTEL FEDERAL
single, B. & 8., from 2 gns.
. . . WITH BENEFITS LIKE THESE
Heart-of-city location
24-hour room service
Personalised service
Adequate, adjacent car parking
Valet service and shoe shine
Credit facilities
Easy booking throughout the Federalchain
Fine foods available from your choice of
restaurants and dining-rooms, all
within the hotel
Luxury VIP suites
Meeting or Banquet rooms
Travel desks for air, rail or rent-a-car bookings
AM at Australia's largest and finest group of hotels
FOR IMMEDIATE CONFIRMED RESERVATIONS, PHONE YOUR NEAREST FEDERAL HOTEL
FEDERAL
HOTELS
Across the Nation
SAVOY PLAZA, 62-4141
MENZIES HOTEL 60-1581
HOTEL FEDERAL, 63-3721
HAMPTON COURT, 31-7081
LENNONS BRISBANE, 32-0131
LENNONS TOOWOOMBA, 2-2433
WREST POINT RIVIERA Hobart 5-1021
existent meeting of the Brisbane Radio
and Television Committee). His opinions
on other matters can therefore be as-
sessed at their true value.
BRIAN J. MULLINS
President,
Queensland Branch of the National
Civic Council.
Brisbane.
Sir,
Your issue of September 8 featured an
article “Santamaria Moves North” con-
tributed by James Fennelly. The article
refers to a discussion of the Brisbane
Archdiocesan Catholic Television Com-
mittee and I quote: “The Brisbane Com-
mittee had the first opportunity to dis-
cuss the National Civic Council move on
Tuesday of this week, only after Sunday
Magazine was seen last Sunday. Several
members, including Archbishop O’Don-
nell, who is anything but a supporter of
Mr Santamaria and the NCC, were ex-
tremely hostile to the move”.
The above statement is quite false as
the Brisbane Archdiocesan Catholic Tele-
vision Committee met today for the first
time since August 14. In the interest of
truth my Committee requests that the
above erroneous statement be corrected
in your next issue.
JOHN A. TORPIE
Secretary,
Catholic Radio and Television
Committee.
Brisbane.
KILLERS AND HANGERS
Sir,
I have rarely read anything on hang-
ing as feeble and shallow as the article
by Peter Schrubb (Bulletin, September
8). Since I was brought in touch with
criminals when Coroner’s Pathologist
over many years 1 have read and
written a great deal on punishment in
general and, in particular, judicial
murder and flogging, commonly known
under their polite aliases of capital and
corporal punishment, respectively.
One interesting commentary on the
alleged deterrent effect of hanging is
presented in today’s “Sunday Mail”
(Brisbane, September 9). On page one
is a report of a murder last Thursday
of a Melbourne taxi-driver. On page
five is a picture of one Robert Peter
Tait, a convicted murderer, now wait-
ing in a Melbourne gaol to be murdered
in his turn by a representative of his
fellow citizens.
The best example I know of a similar
situation is that of Evans and Christie
who lived in the same house at Notting
Hill, London. Christie had murdered
three or four women up to the time of
Evans’s death on the scaffold for a
crime he probably did not commit.
After that, however, Christie went on
to kill four more women. If hanging is
a deterrent this was the supreme chance
to prove it, surely.
To help Peter Schrubb and your
interested readers, may I recommend
them for a start to read a striking article
by the eminent psychiatrist, Karl Men-
ninger. in an issue of Harper’s Magazine
in 1959 on Crime and Punishment? It
is a healthy corrective of the retributive
hysterical twaddle commonly talked on
crime, quite often by people who
deliberately exceed speed limbs to the
peril of the lives of others. This how-
ever, is a very nice resoectable crime so
different from a low, plebeian thing like
rape, so beloved of the Press.
J. V. DUHIG
St Lucia ( Queensland ).
FAIRWEATHER FRIENDS
Sir,
May I say how much I appreciated
Vlax Harris’s “Fairweather Friends” in
your art reviews (Bulletin, September
8). The final comment about Wallace
Thornton seems particularly appropriate,
not only to the gentleman concerned but
to most of the local art critics. For many
years I have been quite mystified that
their extravagant reviews have gone “un-
remarked and uncontradicted.” When I
go to see their masterpieces I come away
disheartened and sad, as I also do when
I see many of the newer acquisitions at
our Art Gallery.
A. W. J. BULTEAU
Mosman (NSW).


REVIEWS
THEATRE
A HOT SUBURBAN WIND
By PETER ROBERT WARD
The Season at Sarsaparilla. Patrick
White. The Adelaide University
Theatre Guild. Union Hall.
rFHE Governors of the Adelaide Festivals
of Arts are not likely to be for-
gotten. Their philistinism set “One Day
Of The Year” off on its distinguished
career with a defiant first production in
Adelaide. Their rejection of “The Ham
Funeral” sparked off an even more hec-
tic set of events. The Adelaide University
Theatre Guild staged a magnificent pro-
duction of the play which led to the
Trust's production thereafter in Sydney.
But Adelaide was not to be quit of the
giant talents of Patrick White as early
as all that. “The Season at Sarsaparilla”
has emerged to blow a hot suburban wind
in their faces. Such are the strange preci-
pitating factors of art. But that is not
all. With Mr White’s two plays came
John Tasker, the producer whom Zoe
Caldwell has described as a “young
Guthrie”, and whose talents will un-
doubtedly put him among the best of our
producers in the future. Furthermore, the
Patrick White Affair gave the Adelaide
University Theatre Guild, under the
chairmanship of Dr Harry Medlin, the
opportunity to emerge as an important
and adventurous theatre group, and it
now combines the functions of a work-
shop theatre and semi-professional com-
pany, often working, as with this play,
in close association with The Elizabethan
Theatre Trust. After the Adelaide pro-
duction ends, Zoe Caldwell will proceed
from Adelaide to join Summer’s produc-
tion of the “Season” at the Union in
Melbourne.
Sarsaparilla is a mythical suburb some-
where on the outskirts of Sydney. In
Mr White’s novel, “Riders In The
Chariot”, it was the backdrop to a drama
with proportions and implications far
greater than those to be found in this
play, which he describes as a “charade
of suburbia in two acts”. The audience
is taken into the kitchens of three subur-
ban villas, the Pogsons’, the Knotts’ and
the Boyles’. The three families live in
their boxes, melancholy and desperate,
absurd and farcical. “In Mildred Street
there’s practically no end to the varia-
tions of monotony” says Ron Child, the
young schoolteacher who suffers from
“the sins of watchers”, who is an out-
sider, the narrator and explainer.
“Procrustes! That’s what we’re up
against”, he cries to his pregnant sister,
Mavis Knott. And then, further on,
“Nobody who has been boxed is ever
quite free”.
And the charade goes on, but, typically
with the complex mind of Mr White, one
is never absolutely sure of the word or
the syllables acted. Young Joyleen
(Pippi) Pogson discovers life by compar-
ing the actions of the dogs who are
around because it’s the “season” with the
seduction of Nola Boyle by Rowley
Masson, an old Western Desert mate
of Nola’s husband, Ernie Boyle, the
sanitary man. Girlie Pogson and Clive
Pogson, a business executive, indulge in
grey periods of recollection and silence.
Harry Knott, in men’s wear, and his
wife, Mavis, chatter about their baby
and accept the world as a place of safety,
smiles, and soft idiocies. Roy Child and
Judy Pogson, a slightly rebellious teen-
ager, verge on love, but Judy discovers
that brash Roy cannot give her the “kind-
ness and affection”, the suburban safeties,
that Ron Suddards, a post office clerk,
offers. Julia Sheen, a model and friend
of Judy Pogson, becomes pregnant to
Mr Erbage, an upright and affluent citi-
zen, and commits suicide. Finally, Roy
leaves. He will travel. His book is not
written. His destiny i that he will in-
evitably return to his suburban immin-
ence. Nothing exists to be transcended;
to take a theme from Mr White’s novels,
they suffer from a lack of suffering.
In total, the play is a very funny
comedy of suburban manners. But, given
this kind of satirical concentration, it
has none of the inward poetry of “The
Ham Funeral”, nor the largeness, the
vibrancy of character. Nola Boyle and
Rowley Masson neither rise nor fall as
far as Mrs Lusty did, though they do
contain elements of similar grandeur.
Rowley seducing and Nola repenting are.
seen in relation to, rather than with, the
other characters. And the other charact-
ers, contrasted, are more probably clever
caricatures than living people.
John Tasker’s production was firm and
assured, but he had a tendency to draw
forth a glib clowning from his actors
and one often wished the lines were
allowed to stand by themselves. Girlie
Pogson, played by Carmel Millhouse, who
is a natural housewifey comic, gave a
consequent performance which would
have been better suited to a revue. Harry
Knott, played by Wayne Anthoney, suf-
fered as a characterisation from this pro-
pensity for clowning. The best perform-
ances came from Cliff Neat as Ernie
Boyle, Leslie Dayman as a relaxed and
exact Rowley Masson, and of course, Zoe
Caldwell as Nola, warm, fruity and
human.
The set by Desmond Digby was a
disappointment. One’s first impression
was that of a carefully thought-out car-
toon of a suburban row, with wire doors
that bang, plastic roses, chrome and
bright kitchen colors. After an hour it
dried up one’s eyes, and seemed flat and
insipid.
“The Season at Sarsaparilla” displays
the incredible intellectual versatility of
Patrick White. Although it is not a perfect
play, nor even as moving and compas-
sionate a play as “Ham Funeral”, yet it
has remained for Mr White’s unique
talent to contribute the first devastating
comedy of Australian suburban life to
our dramatic literature. In addition there
is a skilful and inventive dramatic pro-
fessionalism about the writing. If we tend
to look for a particular kind of beauty
or profundity in everything White pro-
duces, then we are in for a few surprises.
“The Season” was one of them. For here
is Australian ordinariness, acid and
sweet, set down and commented on with
a quality of mind which can only be
described as both ruthless and humanis-
tic at one and the same time.
PETER ROBERT WARD


THE PLAY ABOUT MODERN SOCIETY
Death of a Salesman. Arthur Miller.
Emerald Hill Theatre. Melbourne.
T ike Hamlet, with whom he is often
compared on other grounds, Willy
Loman threatens to become the raw ma-
terial for an industry. Already he has
been written about from almost every
one of the highly sophisticated points of
partial view which have contributed so
much to the modern vocabulary. Thus
he has been called, among many other
things, “an ‘inner-directed’ man whose
efforts to ‘adjust’ to an ‘other-directed’
society result in ‘anomie’ ”; and a victim
of “castration panic” participating in an
“irrational Oedipal blood-bath”. One
quails at the thought of the immense
labors which scholars yet unborn will
undertake in the attempt to put Humpty-
Dumpty together again.
Indirectly, of course, the extent of this
specialist interest in Willy testifies to the
fact, and, partially, to the nature, of
Arthur Miller’s genius. “Death of a
Salesman” is the play about modern
society. The look it takes at its world
is profound and wide-ranging; it is in-
spired by an interest in the human con-
dition far more basic than that of any of
the specialists; it is alert to every relevant
fact in Willy’s situation, and aware that
all of the facts are relevant.
Wal Cherry’s production of the play
falls short of complete success, but it is
certainly good enough to see and be
moved by. All four of the principal
parts are well played. George Whaley as
Willy is impressive visually and vocally,
though a bigger man would make a big-
ger impact. Patricia Kennedy is splendid
as Linda, and Terry Donovan catches
admirably in gesture, stance and voice
the lazy, stupid sensuality of Hap. Peter
Adams lacks the footballer physique as
Biff, but conveys very intelligently the
contrast between the secure, conceited
boy and the bewildered and embittered
man. Unfortunately, some of the
smaller parts are poorly taken, and there
is a lack of general agreement as to what
the speech of New Yorkers sounds like.
Mr. Cherry’s set is a good working com-
promise, necessitated by the design of the
theatre, but it does not convey the sense
of oppressive particularity which is a
substantial element in the definition of
Willy’s plight.
JAMES MURPHY
RULE, RURITANIA!
Romanoff and Juliet. Peter Ustinov.
Independent Theatre. Sydney.
Qome of these days an academic in
search of a thesis is going to sit right
down and exquisitely map out the ter-
ritory and times of Ruritania, Europe’s
most fascinating country. Very likely
the mansions of playwrights will out-
number even the novelists’ bourgeois
homes, and quarrelling for the crown
will be many august names (Shaw, Mol-
nar, Giradoux, Ayme, for example)—and
the august beard and personality of Peter
Ustinov. For “Romanoff and Juliet”
displays almost all the best features of
Ruritania.
The head of the State is comic, lov-
able, and mainly concerned with putting
the paths of true love into the proper
state of smoothness. The Army is ridicu-
lous, with guns that never fire in a hos-
tile way. The Archbishop is some dear
old nut. Along the way, Ustinov de-
volves into the plot two opposing house-
holds —an American ambassador with a
pretty, dumb daughter, and a Russian
ambassador with a handsome, dumb son
and an ecstatic chauffeur who doubles
as a political commissar rapturously writ-
ing confessions from the family each
breakfast.
Mr. Peter Summerton has generally
made a very handsome and enjoyable
job of the production, assisted powerfully
by a design from Michelle that, like all
her work, is not only a visual delight but
a visual delight that subordinates itself
perfectly to the job of giving the actors’
imaginations all manner of suggestions
and help—and space.
Mr. Gordon Chater. as the General,
gives a very funny show, but if he carried
the mood of fairytale, with which he be-
gins the evening, consistently through the
whole play he would add an entire di-
mension to his playing. Mr. Don Philps,
a recent graduate of NIDA, foliows his
fine playing in “St. Joan” with an excel-
lent piece of work as the Russian am-
bassador, Vadim Romanoff. Miss Tanya
Halesworth as Juliet gave far her best
performance yet, and if she delves even
deeper into the mainsprings of the sort
of girl this American daughter is, she
will find even better comedy. Miss
Halesworth, by the way, could well study
her make-up a little more carefully—she
looks pale, and insufficient outline is pre-
venting her features from projecting as
they should.
Mr. Stefan Gryff as the Archbishop
was somehow out of step; it smacked
more of the University-amateur level of
grotesque than the generally professional
level of the rest of the cast.
KEVON KEMP
MUSIC
FATHER AND SON
Daniel Barenboim and Professor Enri-
que Barenboim: Four Hand Piano
Recital. Sydney Conservatorium.
Qchubert’s Grand Duo for piano is
something of an oddity, poised un-
easily between the two stools of sym-
phony and chamber music. It is written
for one of the most sociable of instru-
mental combinations. The writing is
thoroughly pianistic, but the form and
scope of the work are symphonic. Its
language is not intimate enough for
chamber music, but the fact that it is
written for piano prevents it from being
anything else. It has been suggested that
the work is an arrangement of a lost
symphony, but there is no evidence to
support this.
Despite its contradictions, the Grand
Duo contains much fine music, and
Daniel Barenboim and his father are to
be thanked for giving us an opportunity
to hear it. Daniel Barenboim has a close
and intelligent sympathy with the Vien-
nese classicists, and he and his father
generally worked well as a team (though
he seemed to have to hammer the piano
to produce the same volume in the
treble as his father did in the bass), so
that the work was heard to good advan-
tage.
This concert underlined the fact that
there is a lot of excellent music that
languishes unperformed because it is not
written for one of the standard com-
binations. The ABC and Musica Viva
can hardly be expected to arrange cele-
brity concerts of music for groups which
do not fit into one of the normal cate-
gories, and the field seems to be one
into which local artists could move with-
out being overshadowed by visiting cele-
brities. A concert-goer is not likely to
take much trouble to hear a local group
performing something that he is likely
to hear one better at a celebrity concert:
but he might be induced to go to a con-
cert given by local artists if the pro-
gramme includes music that he is un-
likely to hear elsewhere.
JOHN SMALL
ART
AN EASY £1000
Transfield Art Prize, 1962. David
Jones Art Gallery. Sydney.
Tf this exhibition is really representative
of Australian figure composition then
there is real cause for alarm. Here there
is a lot of painting but almost none of it
is deeply concerned with the figure. No
doubt painters’ interests lie elsewhere, in
landscape, the heady wine of literary


YOU WOULD EXPECT
TO PAY MORE
AT MELBOURNE’S
SOUTHERN CROSS
HOTEL
BUT YOU DON’T!
Rates commencing at just £4 single, £7.4.0 double,
are just the first of many pleasant surprises awaiting you at
Melbourne’s Southern Cross, Australia’s largest hotel, backed by
the skill and experience of the world’s
leading international hotel group. Others
include elegant new restaurants, in-
timate coffee lounges, cosy bars,
and underground parking for
over 300 cars. Comfort and
good taste are the keynotes to
every individually air-condi-
tioned guest room and suite.
Book NOW through your travel
agent, or by contacting direct
the Southern Cross (Melbourne
63 0221, grams “Inhotelcor”).
F
r/fRV'
INTERCONTINENTAL HOTELS
w
SOUTHERN
CROSS
HOTEL OF NEW HORIZONS
EXHIBITION STREET, MELBOURNE
IHC 7.24
images or the cultural tide rushing
through the magazines from New York.
The figure remains a European humanist
tradition; the moment an artist takes it
seriously he is up against stiff competi-
tion if he wants to say something new.
What Sibley comes up with in his
prawn-colored “Bathers” is a banal group
of fore-shortened girls whose trailing hair
alone achieve a semblance of structure.
An easy £lOOO no doubt, but one barely
surpassed by many in this motley col-
lection. Grey-Smith might have pulled
off a neat imitation of de Stael had his
forms any real knowledge, his color
spatial meaning, or his paint a measure
of succulent strength. Kahan reaches
atmosphere in his yellow-and-grey Puerto
del Sol together with Juniper in “Finda-
mountain devil,” a landscape in which to
find a figure. Cant’s Rima is transfixed
amid a Pollockoid froth of excited vege-
tation, Rigby attempts a sober “Bush
School” and finds something of a bush
quality. Guy Warren’s “Children Play-
ing” on the other hand finds strength
through a low range of greens rather
than its campigli heads. Coburn pastes
newspaper rather unsuccessfully to a
painting, rather in the wake of recent
Rubenstein entries with Elwyn Lynn go-
ing all imitation-realist into rude nude
photo-bits in a painting hung rather
badly along what from sheer lack of
viewing space might be called the
apology gallery. Robert Hughes tries
vainly to shock with a nasty semi-abstract
chunk of exotica called “The Lovers”, all
ruptured flourbag, genitals and gnashing
false teeth. After this Stan Gould’s
“Street Scene” is almost classicist for
all its dichotomy of figure and shadow,
divergent of style but quiet of state-
ment. The work of Crooke, Carrington-
Smith and Roger Kemp achieve distinc-
tion amid a clutter of splashing abstracts
quite unconnected with figure painting
as such. Coming away from this hash
of conflicts and pseudo passions into the
fresh air of gas-filled Castlereagh St, is
positively therapeutic.
J. HENSHAW
FRAGMENTATION
Douglas Watson. Leveson Street Gal-
lery. Melbourne.
T\ouglas Watson is not the kind of
painter who profits greatly from a
retrospective exhibition. The present
show, which has been on for some time
at the Leveson Street Gallery in North
Melbourne, covers 20 years’ activity in
a variety of styles which bear little rela-
tion to each other. If there is any con-
sistent quality discernible, it is that
Watson is best as a subject painter; but
he infuses so little individuality into his
painting that common qualities rarely
became dominant, and the whole frag-
ments into experiments in style.
The early works, which won him sev-
eral prizes and recognition from most
of the State Galleries, is largely in the
tradition of the English realists. From
the mid-fifties there are a few works
which move towards a geometric abstrac-
tion of the subject, and a more expres-
sive use of color. His latest phase is a
plunge into a species of geological ab-
straction. He does nonetheless achieve
substantial success, notably in “Mining”
and “Living Earth”. Unhappily the
majority of his agglomerates and concre-
tions tend to remain as they were ap-
parently intended obscure.
The joint exhibition of drawings and
prints by Anne Montgomery, Mary Mac-
queen and Edith Wall maintains a uni-
formly good standard of craftsmanship
and attracts sympathy by its lack of pre-
tension. Edith Wall is the most daring
of the three with her engaging satire of
ordinary people, but the other two artists
hold their own with refined craftsman-
ship and a humble, honest approach to
their simple nature studies and land-
scapes.
BILL HANNAN


THE RED PAGE
HISTORY WITHOUT FACTS
By M. H. ELLIS
many years teachers of Australian
A history have bemoaned the lack of
a comprehensive text-book narrative
which could be used with confidence.
But they have frequently comforted
themselves with the thought that in a very
few years or months the monumental first
volume of Pr Manning Clark’s
A History of Australia * would be avail-
able and that that was bound to be all
right because Manning Clark was Pro-
fessor of History at Canberra University
College (latterly in the School of General
Studies, ANU) and was regarded with
awe by colleagues.
The first volume is now out, but the
teachers of Australian history will have
to go on moaning. For Professor Man-
ning Clark had done very little to replace
legend with sure knowledge or blind pre-
judice and dislike with informed and
balanced appraisement.
At first glimpse his volume gives one
the impression of a very learned work,
the product of prodigious labor and ex-
haustive study of original sources. It
has reference notes by the dozen to every
chapter. It has a 21-page “select bibli-
ography” at the end. But a close exam-
ination of the bibliography shows that it
is very short on original sources which
are absolutely essential to be examined
before a proper history of the period of
the volume —“From the earliest times
to the age of Macquarie” can be
written.
A few groups of documents which
have been seen by Professor Clark or
his “research secretary” have been
listed. The large collections of In-and-
out-letters of the Secretary’s Office are
not quoted or referred to.
Neither is the large collection of Went-
worth Papers in the Mitchell Library.
Professor Clark has not seen the Mac-
arthur Papers and his list of them takes
the volumes only up to the end of my
list of 1955, though a good many volumes
have since been added. The Calder Papers
in Victoria are listed, but not the huge
collection in the Mitchell Library. The
papers of Antill, the Bank of New South
Wales, Bligh (other than those in the
few volumes of the Banks Papers) are
not mentioned. The papers and manu-
scripts of Phillip and Hunter, the Blax-
lands, Cox, Evans, Greenway, Harris,
Hassall, Piper, Meehan, the Rileys,
Throsby and many others have all been
ignored in the “select bibliography” and
otherwise.
It is evident that Professor Clarke
when writing his history was imbued with
the same principles that guided him when
he wrote on p. xviii of his introduction
to his Select Documents in Australian
History:
One decision which does require some justi-
fication is the almost complete neglect of
manuscript material (i.e. in his volume). In
some quarters there is a tendency to treat
manuscript material with reverence and awe—
as though it had in some mysterious way the
keys to the great truths. We have been just
as nauseated by this cult as we have by that
other cult, or rather, fraternity of those
who have read THE HUMMER. We found
the points we wanted to illustrate were
generally done more effectively in printed
material. ..
Which is sheer nonsense since so much
of the printed material in early Austra-
lian history is propaganda; so much of
it is documented in print only on one
side of the early colonial world.
Clark’s work divides itself into four
parts the first of which takes nearly
sixty pages to get the reader up to the
choice of Botany Bay as a site for the
foundation of the Colony. This is the
most thorough section of the book, but
it deals mainly with things that didn’t
happen, or with the details of the mostly
vague early Portuguese, Spanish and
Dutch explorations of the Antipodes
An absence of names
Vou will have to seek other fields to get
an articulate picture of what Dam-
pier did, instead of words about how
“he too had his faith—the plain man’s
faith” and how he belonged to a world
in transition from the Protestants to the
sons of Enlightenment.
It is only when he comes to Flinders
that he develops any real interest in ex-
ploration round the coasts, but you won’t
find the names of Phillip Parker King
of the Mermaid or Grant in his index.
The physical, the adventurous, the toil
of men have little appeal to Manning
Clark. He is obsessed with little things of
the mind and spirit.
Of the preliminaries to the actual in-
ternal history of Australia which we
reach only on p. 113 out of 378, it must
be said that Clark regards the exercise as
a sordid operation in which the virtues
are reserved for Phillip and his Marines
and other officers, for Clark accepts that
nearly all the military were good in a
well-behaved settlement under Phillip,
but riotous and debauched under the
wicked Grose. The Marines’ officers
were “characterised by their faith in
common sense, men who disdained
enthusiasm either for religion of the
established Church or the faith of
the enlightenment, or the belief in
the noble savage . . . men of talent, men
of experience, men who volunteered from
moti'/es of ambition, curiosity and a de-
sire to serve . . . They belonged to a
climate of opinion which encouraged re-
straint and moderation.”
Actually so moderate were they, so
restrained that they refused to help the
harassed Governor even by so much as
encouraging or rebuking the convicts
who were building them shelter; so re-
strained, that at one stage seven out of
16 were either under arrest or suspended.
The Fleet sails out of Portsmouth
Harbor—it was never in it. It sailed
from the Motherbank off the Isle of
Wight. The officers and marines landed
in Sydney Cove and the Union Jack was
hoisted there and toasts drunk shortly
after noon on January 26, 1788.
Actually the landing was made early in
the morning and the ceremony took place
near sundown. D’Arcy Wentworth was
not an ex-convict or a descendant of the
Earl of Stafford. Clark says that
Catherine Crowley who became the
mother of W. C. Wentworth, had lived
on the Fitzwilliam Estates in Stafford-
shire. She didn’t. He continues the old
mistake of dating an important letter
from Elizabeth Macarthur about condi-
tions in 1795 instead of 1798, thus paint-
ing a false picture of the colony in the
earlier year and proving how little he
knows about the Macarthur family on
whose head he pours his dislike at every
available opportunity. He adopts the
false out-worn assumption that “offi-
cers” meant military officers and that
therefore the officers of the I Jew South
Wales Corps had a monopoly of the
trade in goods and rum, which they
didn't the largest traders were civil
officers like Palmer th Commissary. He
adopts without question the charges that
Grose’s rule in New South Wales pro-
duced a moral quagmire, forgetting the
dreadful robberies and murders and such
scenes as the orgy which took place in
Phillip’s day after the landing of the
women in the beginnings of the settle-
ment or those when the Royal Admiral
arrived at the end of 1792.
He infers that the Macarthurs arrived
in the Neptune. They arrived in the
Scarborough, having made nearly all the
voyage in her.
Clark treats tenderly, of course, Rich-
ard Atkins, the drunken but influential
remittance man who he says “volunteered
to go to New South ' Ales.” His form of
volunteering was to steal the funds of
the militia regiment of which he was
*A History of Australia. From the
Earliest Times to the Age of Mac-
quarie. C. M. H. Clark. Melbourne.
University Press. 575. 6d.


adjutant and his influential family ex-
ported him lest worse befall.
Shaking hands with a dead man
|>rofessor Clark’s whole story of
-*■ Macarthur’s quarrel with Hunter is
distorted and inaccurate. He accepts as
accurate Macarthur’s claim that he ex-
perimented with the breeding of sheep
in 1794 and 1795 and that Isaac Nichols
and Samuel Marsden did the same in
those years. It was not true. He says
that in 1796 Macarthur imported four
merino rams and two ewes from the
Cape of Good Hope. That isn’t true
the sheep were imported by Captain
Waterhouse at the instance of Captain
Philip Gidley King. Marsden had no
sheep in 1794 and Isaac Nichols only
received a grant of land on finishing his
sentence in 1797.
So it goes on throughout the book.
He mentions Bligh’s land policy with-
out referring to the fact that Bligh de-
liberately stayed out of office for a period
so that he and King could carry out their
unholy bargain to exchange large land
grants.
His story of the rebellion against Bligh
is as shaky in details, particularly as
to its denouements, as his conclusion
that Macquarie’s creation of the new age
was built on the ideas and work begun
by King. Macquarie’s conception of the
peasant economy built round the emanci-
pists was widely different from King’s
conception of the economic principles
which should be followed.
The Macquarie period occupies going
on for a third of the book. Macquarie
was not, as Clark declar 's, the “son of
a laird” but of a poor tenant farmer of
his clan who distantly was related to a
very impoverished laird. His other
errors of detail about the Macquarie
period are legion. Macquarie did not go
to Bathurst first in 1814, but in 1815.
Greenway was not appointed assistant to
Major Druitt in March 1816, because
Druitt did not reach the Colony till Sep-
tember 1817 —Clark earlier made Bligh,
on arrival, shake hands with William
Balmain who had been dead for three
years. Macquarie did not expel the
cashiered Lieutenant Philip Connor be-
cause he mixed with prostitutes and
drank but because he had been packed
out of the colony and cashiered after
having committed (the Governor
thought) “murder . . . with wanton
cruelty”. Clark’s account of the circum-
stances surrounding the flogging of men
found illegally in the Domain is very
imperfect in detail and unfair. And so
on. The author's references to Mac-
quarie's actions are nearly always
grudging.
When, for instance, Macquarie built
the lovely convict barracks in Queen’s
Square, the first building of real beauty
in the country and today one of the
treasures of our architecture, it appears
that he did it without considering “that
such labor (as he used) could be used
to exploit the wealth of the older dis-
tricts and the new country discovered by
Oxley and Throsby”:
Such a vision was not vouchsafed to Mac-
quarie, because by then he was so engrossed
in answering criticism ... so consumed by
his own righteousness in punishing the
wicked, and so lacking in charity to the
men driven by forces over which they had
no control, that he was left with little time
or energy with which to do creative thinking
on the problems of the Colony.
Was ever such nonsense written? At
the time the foundation stone of the bar-
rack was laid in April, 1817, he was
opening the Bank of New South Wales.
He was sending away Phillip Parker Ring
on his voyage of discovery in the Mer-
maid. He was in the midst of planning
and opening his great building campaign
—churches, orphanage, and what have
you. He was planning roads, expeditions
of discovery, port development at New-
castle. And as for the new country, he
was not turning his mind to that because
Oxley and Throsby had not yet set out
to discover it! Yet his vision was suf-
ficiently comprehensive to permit him
to prepare to send them out to see what
they might find.
Clark suggests that in the years 1817-
21 Macquarie was so much absorbed in
trying to win a certificate of approval of
his policies from the Colonial Office,
that he entirely neglected the problems
of the Colony.
He writes that then and after his re-
tirement the old Governor “wasted his
substance because he believed passion-
ately that what was happening to him
was unfair, as he believed that a man re-
ceived his true deserts here on earth. In
attempting to achieve what he believed
to be his deserts he destroyed himself,
and went dangerously close to bringing
himself into derision”.
Yet, in fact, there was no more self-
less man when it came to public duty
than Macquarie, and the years 1817-21
actually, despite Clark, saw him at his
busiest and his policies in exploration,
civic and agricultural and pastoral ex-
pansion, building and the consolidation
of civilisation and progress at their peak.
For Clark to support his conclusions
it is necessary for him to ignore vital
documents and evidence which, one
would imagine, could not escape the
notice of even a superficial historian.
This he does. He accepts as impartial,
trustworthy and competent the inquiry
into the affairs of New South Wales by
John Thomas Bigge, the Royal Commis-
sioner who was here from September
1819 to March 1821, and his findings.
He does not cite Macquarie’s warning
to Bigge about the company he was
keeping (H.R.A., I, 10, pp. 222-4) and
the explicit detail of often damning and
conclusive exposures and criticisms of
Bigge’s methods, mistakes, bias and asso-
ciations adduced by Macquarie, W. C.
Wentworth and others after the issue of
his tripartite report.
He states that Samuel Marsden, “as
early as January, 1820 . . . had sug-
gested to him (Bigge) the importance of
the pastoral industry, and the part con-
victs could play in that industry”. He
makes it very clear that this advice ante-
ceded the advice of Macarthur which
came much later —specifically as a plan
produced on the eve of Bigge’s depar-
ture. But this view would look absurd
if he offered for inspection—for example
—John Macarthur’s lengthy letter to his
son in London dated February 20, 1820,
which strongly supports the view that
Bigge was involved in a conspiracy as to
what his pre-arranged finding was to be
from the moment he accepted his com-
mission and that he drew Macarthur
who had become the practical father of
the policy which he promoted, as far
back as 1793 into it as soon as he
landed in Australia in 1819. It is un-
doubted that he remained in collusion
with Macarthur till they joined forces
in founding the Australian Agricultural
Company five years later. Yet Clark’s
mind appears to be blank about the im-
portant documents referred to above.
Again, he briefly mentions the two
letters which Henry Grey Bennet, MP,
wrote to Lords Sidmouth and Bathurst,
and published in pamphlets in 1819-20.
“Select Bibliography”?
TTf lists both Bennet’s pamphlets in his
“select bibliography” apart from his
inadequate summary of them in his text.
He does not either mention, or list in his
“select bibliography”, Macquarie’s elo-
quent and moving answer, published in
his pamphlet, shortly known as A Letter
to Sidmouth. This brochure contains the
Old Governor’s defence and his state-
ment of his credo of humanity and
mercy and is one of the most arresting
arid important documents of the auto-
cratic age of government. It is the cul-
minating explanation of Macquarie’s
whole governmental theory and purpose.
To omit it from consideration is like
leaving out all reference to the Gospel
of St Matthew in a full dress discussion
of the New Testament. But Clark con-
signs it to complete oblivion. And to
make matters worse, he does list —no less
than twice —in his “select bibliography”,
Marsden’s pamphlet in which he replied,
after Macquarie’s death, to “certain cal-
umnies in the late Governor’s pamphlet”
which Clark himself has elected to treat
as non-existent as a source of informa-
tion.
It would be interesting to serious his-
torians to hear Professor Clark’s ex-
planations of these matters, especially as
far as they affect the characters of Mac-
quarie and Marsden.


WHAT'S GOOD FOR GENERAL PLAYFORD
The South Australian Elections, 1959.
R. Hetherington and R. L. Reid.
Rigby Limited. 17/6.
studies are among the
most fashionable research activities
of Australian political scientists; they
have also begun to attract historians and
sociologists, at a time when others are
questioning whether the field isn’t al-
ready played out.
That part of the field represented by
the present book the simple chronicle
of a campaign and its immediate back-
ground has certainly been well
worked over. Who the candidates were,
what was said in the policy speeches,
what was said in the newspapers, on
the radio and television, in halls and at
street corners, how the constituencies
voted, comparisons with recent State
and Federal elections, sketches of the
electoral law, of the crucial constituen-
cies, and of the party system—they are
all here, as they were in Crowley on
the Western Australian election in 1959,
in Jupp on the Victorian one of 1961,
in Rawson on the Federal election of
1958, and in half-a-dozen studies of by-
elections since Mayer and Rydon on
Gwydir in 1953.
It is competently and clearly done,
but, like Rawson’s Australia Votes, it
took three years to produce and was
ready barely in time for the next gene-
ral election for the same parliament. The
authors themselves stress the lack of
excitement and interest in South Aus-
tralian elections—so predictably a fore-
gone conclusion; an account of one that
is not even topical has little appeal ex-
cept in its comments on long-term fea-
tures of the State’s politics.
Even these add little to the essay on
South Australia in Davis’s Government
of the Australian States (published
1960) —in fact, Dr Reid was co-author
of both studies. The main difference
—and its main interest—is that the new
book, after making all possible statistical
allowances, is less mealy-mouthed about
the fantastic distortion: in the South
Australian electoral system, and the un-
flattering light they throw on the “re-
cord term” and “unique electoral ap-
peal” of the Playford Go' ernment.
In terms of parliamentary seats, that
Government reached its peak of 23 in
the elections of 1947 and 1950, and its
seats have declined steadily since then,
while the ALP’s seats have increased
from a low of 12 to 17 in 1959 and
19 in 1962. But these figures bear only
a crude relation to the voting support
of the respective Parties, owing to a
statutory distribution of electorates
which, in 1959, made a country vote in
South Australia worth 31 times the value
of a metropolitan one (where most of
Labor’s support is heavily concen-
trated). Hetherington and Reid show
that the ALP would need at least 60
per cent, of the votes at a fully con-
tested election to win a sufficient majo-
rity to form a government. After com-
paring the State election figures with the
results of the Federal election in 1958,
they calculate that in all the subdivi-
sions contested at both elections there
was less than 1 per cent, greater sup-
port for Playford’s Liberal Country
League than for the Menzies Govern-
ment parties.
“It is clear”, they conclude, “that the
alleged magic of the Playford name is
largely illusory”, and that the ALP,
even in 1959, had greater support in
the State than the Liberal Country
League, but that “in South Australia
the Australian Labor Party is at a strong
electoral disadvantage that has nothing
to do with the popularity of the Play-
ford Government”. The intervention of
the DLP, though not crucial up to 1959,
“makes the already difficult ALP task
well-nigh impossible”.
Yet the ALP did manage to do bet-
ter in 1962, and it could be that the
writing is on the wall, not only for the
LCL regime in South Australia, but also
for an electoral distribution equalled
only by that of Queensland until a few
years ago for its cynical disregard of
the principle of fair and equal repre-
sentation.
It is no excuse for the present system
to say that, with redistribution on the
“one vote, one value” principle, it would,
for a new set of reasons, depend very
much on the detailed drawing of elec-
toral boundaries whether the ALP would
then be likely to win a South Austra-
lian election. It is certainly no tender-
ness for that Party which perpetuates
the present distribution. Sir Thomas
Playford saw fit to say in 1953 that
having “studied this matter extensively”
he could find “no mandate for even
supposing that there is such a principle
in electoral matters as ‘one vote one
value’.” (SA Hansard, 1953, p. 515.).
There is none so blind to a principle as
the man who profits by opposite prin-
ciples —in this case the principle of
weighting the country vote.
The point is that the latter principle
must be entirely arbitrary in application,
while “one vote, one value” leaves much
less to the conscience of the legislators.
In communities of extremely uneven
population distribution and develop-
ment like the Australian States, there
is some case for compromising this prin-
ciple. The case rests on the practical
problems of representation in huge out-
back electorates (a weak argument of
diminishing force) and on the hope that
more generous representation of rural
areas will stimulate development. The
argument that “primary producers are
the backbone of the economy” is, of
course, economically and politically ab-
surd: why should the backbone be bet-
ter represented than the arteries, the
nerves or the brain? And in social
terms, which is which?
R. S. PARKER
THE SIEGE OF MALTA
The Great Siege. Ernie Bradford.
Hodder and Stoughton. 375. 3d.
Qoleyman the First, Sultan of Turkey,
known throughout Europe as Soley-
man the Magnificent, headed a military
state which stretched from North Africa
to the Persian Gulf. A tough wily states-
man of 70, he was determined, despite
a setback at Vienna in 1529, to continue
the war against the Infidel. The obstacle
to his plans lay in Malta, the stronghold
of a foreign legion of militant Christians,
the Knights of St John. The Sultan’s
abortive attempt to take the island in
1565, “one of the decisive actions in the
history of the Mediterranean”, is the sub-
ject of Ernie Bradford’s vivid study.
A huge armada of 181 ships from
Constantinople delivered some 30,000
troops to the island plus vast quantities
of food, gunpowder and siege equipment.
The defence led by Jean de la Valette, a
war-scarred old veteran, rested on a few
hundred Knights as the hard core of a
total force of 8,000 split up in the three
or four forts on the island. To the Turks
it looked like a pushover. Four months
later, weakened by dysentery, incompe-
tence and a staggering casualty list they
gave up and the tattered remnants of
their once-proud army took to the boats
leaving the slopes and inlets foul with
their own dead.
Both sides used all the devices of
sixteenth century warfare cannon,
muskets, sappery and fire grenades. There
were artillery duels, cavalry charges—
even an encounter in the Grand Harbor
between armed bands of swimmers. Nor
was ingenuity lacking. The defenders for
example used hoops which were set on
fire and trundled down on the Turks in
their loose-flowing robes. They countered
with a type of incendiary which when
it burst clung to the armor or the body.
“Time and again the Knights who stood
in the breach were saved from being
roasted alive in their mail by leaping into
great barrels of water that had been
placed in position along the defences.”
Bradford is right in seeing the siege
as one of the transition periods in the
history of warfare. “It occurred,” he


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. "D", Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A Service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if
successful.
writes, “at the time when the common
soldier, with his musket or arquebus, was
beginning to achieve supremacy over the
armored nobility of the past.” Yet his
underlying thesis, that the defence of
Malta saved Europe and Christendom,
that it proved a turning point in history,
is less convincing, evidence suggests that
its importance has been overrated.
DOUGLAS TERRY
A SHUDDER OF RECOGNITION
Traditional Cultures and the Impact of
Technological Change. George
Foster. Harper.
r|Y)DAY, with those winds of change
A reaching gale force, colonialism a
dirty word, and primitive tribes every-
where being propelled into modern
nationhood, the administration of native
peoples has developed urgent practical
implications that it never had before. In
the present climate of world politics, it
has become apparent even to the most
obtuse that impoverished backward
societies are threats to our own security.
Primitive cultures, when brought into
contact with our own, have always under-
gone change; the difference today is that
social change is no longer haphazard,
but tends to be forced, accelerated, and
guided. It is such planned programmes
of social change that are implied by the
technical term “community development”.
It is a common misconception that the
marvels of our technology need only be
offered to our poorer brothers to be
gratefully accepted: this is part of a
broader assumption that the only reason
they are not like us is that they don’t
know how. There is, therefore, a nasty
jolt for many well-meaning enthusiasts en-
gaged in community development work
in backward societies when the civilised
blessings they bring are either accepted
without gratitude or not accepted at all.
(Our methods of farming, education,
maternity care, etc., are so obviously
better than theirs: why can’t they see this
too?). Professor Foster’s book suggests
many of the answers to these irritating
questions.
The author is an anthropologist with
a wide participant experience of many
major community development projects.
He analyses the temperamental quali-
ties necessary for this kind of work, and
his diagnosis of the painful disease of
“culture shock” will cause a shudder of
wincing recognition in anyone who has
ever tried to adapt himself to an alien
culture; this alone would make the book
worth reading. Well done though it is,
this section does raise a perennial pro-
blem that even Professor Foster cannot
solve; having defined the ideal field-
worker; technically expert, but tolerant,
practical, tactful, patient, sincere, humble
—where do we find him? We have
shrewd experienced sociologists and self-
less dedicated missionaries, but one lacks
heart and the other lacks head, and the
two patterns of qualities are so rarely
combined in a single individual that one
might suspect them to be mutually
exclusive.
Not least of the book’s many merits is
the informal ease of its style. At a time
when so many American social scientists
have withdrawn into an impenetrable
jungle of esoteric jargon, writing as lucid,
down to earth, even colloquial as this is
a refreshing change. To give one of
many quotable examples: in his final
chapter, when discussing the ethical im-
plications of “tinkering with other
people’s cultures”, the author says,
“The anthropologist is indoctrinated
to see the good in all cultures, and not
a few returned field-workers have
suffered with a guilty conscience
because they didn’t really like the
people they studied . . . Some peoples
turn out to be positive stinkers by al-
most any standards; it is not inconsis-
tent to have sympathy for such people
and to make real friends among them,
and still recognise that a major cul-
tural overhaul for them would be the
best thing in the world.”
D’ARCY RYAN
THE DREARY BREEDS
The Spoilt City. Olivia Manning
Heinemann.
“?T*he Spoilt City” by Olivia Manning
A is not my usual cup of tea; never-
theless I enjoyed it. The story concerns
the carryings-on of academics and diplo-
mats, than whom I can think of no breeds
drearier, and some of this dreariness
seeps through—the novel would be sheer
romance otherwise; but Miss Manning’s
obvious intention was to write, not a
romance, but a serious and realistic ac-
count of British expatriates in war-time
Bucharest, with a nice balance struck
between comedy and menace. This she
has done. This is a far cry from Ethel
M. Dell. We are closer to Upton Sinclair
country, with E. Phillips Oppenheimland
just over the hill. Not a few of Miss
Manning’s characters are Oppenheim
strays. The sexy Bella and the opportu-
nistic Yaki provide much of the book’s
comedy.
History provides the menace. The
spoilt city is Bucharest itself and menace
stalks the streets. It is 1940, the year of
Dunkirk, of the Russian takeover of
Bessarabia, King Carol’s abdication and
his flight with Magda Lupescu, of Nazi
threats against Rumania from the outside
and Iron Guardist threats from within.
Day by day—and quicker and quicker
after Dunkirk —British influence deterio-
rates. It is a black day, indeed, when the
English Bar at the Athenee Palace Hotel
is taken over by the German colony!
Finally, old Inchcape of British Propa-
ganda is beaten up by thugs and flees to
Beirut; Miss Manning’s heroine, Harriet
Pringle, flees to Athens, leaving her
husband, Guy, behind; and a dark con-
fused chapter of modern history is closed.
If history provides the menace, the
comedy is Miss Manning's own. Has she
lived in university circles, like Harriet?
She has a sharp sense of the ridiculous
—like Harriet; and a reasonableness,
detached yet bothered, not unlike Shakes-
peare’s in “Troilus and Cressida”, the
play which Guy, a University lecturer,
produced in “The Great Fortune”, the
first book of Miss Manning’s proposed
trilogy. The whole work, I expect, will
examine the disenchantment of a pink,
which Guy is. In “The Spoilt City”,
however, the chief target is the Ruma-
nian aristocracy, which again may remind
you of Shakespeare, for if ever there was
a fickle, worthless mob, it’s these. The
scene at the Opera House, where a be-
jewelled audience applauds arrivals who
the English think must be the new king,
Michael, and his mother, but who in fact
turn out to be the German minister and
his wife, is worth the price of the novel.
“Put not your trust in princesses!”
But Miss Manning’s shrewdly aimed
bodkin pierces other balloons. I hope I
am right to assume “The Spoilt City”
is a scarcely veiled attack on English
diplomatic policy in the 30s and 40s,
which was only slightly less stupid than
American policy today.
PAUL SMITH


THE MAN
ON THE
LAND
QUEENSLAND
THE GROPING GIANT
By L. J. ROBERTS
T)ut a few Englishmen together and
you will have a Club. Put a few
Frenchmen together and you will have
a new political party. But put even
three Queenslanders together today, and
you will have a Development Committee.
Queensland, in suddenly taking itself
with the utmost seriousness as a State
entity, finds itself in many respects in
much the same position as the tradi-
tional Poor Little Rich Girl —having
everything but the things that really
matter. However, where the Poor Little
Rich Girl has all the money in the world,
but can find no one to love her for
herself alone, Queensland has all the
resources in the world—up to and in-
cluding oil—but can find no one to
take advantage of her willingness to be
exploited in the manner she thinks is
her due.
This desire for exploitation of re-
sources, for development in any form at
all, is very real and extends throughout
the State. There are few Queensland
communities of any size which do not
have a Development Advisory Commit-
tee or its equivalent.
These local town or district bodies
group to form regional committees, and
at the very top is the newly formed
State Development Committee which has
been set up by the Queensland Deputy-
Premier and Liberal Party leader, Mr K.
J. Morris.
Queenslanders have a tendency not to
take their principal politicians very seri-
ously, and Mr Morris is no exception to
the general rule. But, if he has achieved
nothing else, he has made Queenslanders
agonisingly aware of the shortcomings
of their State’s largely seasonal industrial
and economic set-up. He has preached
the need for development at such length
and with such persistence that even those
who take politicians with the least seri-
ousness have been caught up in the
whirl.
Surprisingly, Mr Morris is not the
State’s Minister for Development. That
portfolio is grouped with Mines and
Main Roads, and is held by a Country
Party man, Mr E. Evans. What Mr
Evans feels about Mr Morris’ “move-
ment” has never been publicly recorded.
Mr Morris got into the development
act as Minister for Labor and Industry.
He approached local authority mayors
and chairmen throughout the State to set
up development advisory committees
which would help in the attraction of
industry, and, through the regional bod-
ies, in a regional-basis survey of State
resources.
The Scte committee represents
Queensland’s top management, with men
like Mt Isa Mines general manager, Mr
Fisher, and David Jones’ Queensland
manager, Mr O’Loan.
The new top level committee certainly
is taking itself seriously. Its members
took the trouble to sound out the ALP
Opposition leader, Mr Duggan, as to
whether it would be likely to be a per-
manent fixture just in case there might
be a change in Government. Mr Dug-
gan apparently assured the committee
members that an ALP Government
would cherish their advice just as much
as a Country-Liberal Government—and
Queensland then had a State Advisory
Committee which would:
• Advise the Government in matters
of industrial development.
9 Act in liaison between the local
and regional committees on the one
hand, and the Government and its de-
partments on the other.
All these things, all the committees,
the surveys and the reports are sympto-
matic of Queensland’s growing pains. No
longer content to be just Australia’s beef
and sugar producer, Queensland has be-
come Australia’s groping giant.
Every community wants something
more —a secondary industry of any sort,
a new agricultural industry, land utilisa-
tion—without knowing precisely what to
set out to attract. The result is that
every Development Committee and the
State as a whole has given the impres-
sion of rushing furiously in at least ten
different directions simultaneously.
In the process, Queenslanders are be-
coming mildly schizophrenic. Everyone
from Premier down believes honestly
that what is good for Queensland is good
for the nation, that improvement and
development in Queensland mean enorm-
ous improvement and benefit for Austra-
lia. But, at the same time they believe
equally firmly that what improves or
develops any other State is of benefit to
that State alone.
Queenslanders are extremely vocal in
resistance to Government control and
direction, yet whenever a local authority
or a Development Committee has an
idea, the first, and often only, thought is
ta “ask the Government”.
Queensland Governments, irrespective
of Party, blame the Commonwealth for
everything that goes wrong from lack of
money to unemployment, but as yet,
however, Queensland Governments have
found extreme difficulty in presenting
any sort of case for Commi iwealth
participation.
Undoubtedly, all these symptoms of
incipient schizophrenia, all this lack of
connection between thoughts, feelings
and actions, arise from Queensland’s very
vastness, and its enormous variety of
climatic, geographic and economic con-
ditions. It is difficult i: der these
circumstances for any uniformity or com-
munity of purpose to be achieved be-
tween the various regions.
Central Queensland alone manages to
speak, so far, with one voice. North
and Western Queensland, because of
their monstrous size, cannot do it. The
North even has difficulty in defining its
own area.
Extent of the community of interest
reached by the true C-. tral Qacensland
area —the Rockhampton, Gladstone and
Maryborough belts and their hinterlands
—was demonstrated forcefully at the
University of Queensland conference
arranged by the Australian Institute of
Management to discuss “proposals for
the development of Que . ’ nd”.
Central Queensland scat an integrated
team of 16 del "gates, eq-- : pped with
facts, figures, reports, films and other
materials which were used to gain tre-
mendous publicity for the area. On the
other hand, the area from Mackay north
had only three representatives—one each
from Townsville, Ingham and Cairns,
each attending independently of the
others. The inevitable result during the
conference was only occasional refer-
ence to any possible development from
Mackay north.
There was a strong move throughout
the conference to find c major scheme
on which to concentrate Government
expenditure, and under the circum-
stances, the Central Queensland area
was easily the most favored.
Whatever—if anything—arises from
the conference and the multitude of Com-
mittees, Queenslanders can reasswie
themselves that the State is ripe for what
some economists call the “take-off”.


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
Optimistic View on Primary Exports
Representing a large sector of the world’s exports of raw
materials and commodities, the Commonwealth countries
at the PM’s conference in London were in a good posi-
tion to ventilate the basic world trade problems involved in
the likely disturbance of established export markets for primary
products which would follow Britain’s joining the Common
Market.
Of course, Western Europe (including Britain) is also by
far the world’s largest importer of manufactures, but a large
part of its imports of manufactures originate within the area
itself and most of the remainder come from North America.
Indeed, since 1950, intra-European trade has grown at a much
faster rate than world trade, actually by 127 p.c. compared
with 86 p.c. So the problem of markets for exports of manu-
factured goods from Commonwealth countries (largely Canada
and Australia in this context) is rather different from that for
primary products.
Western Europe, being the importing area for about half the
total value of world exports of primary products, and the US,
also a huge importer, and both being the two best prospects
for expanding markets, virtually holds the keys to this problem.
Tn a recent review of the marketing problems for exports from
primary producing countries, the Institute of Public
Affairs (Victoria) highlights some of the broader elements of
the situation in the light of the declining share of primary
producing exports in the expanding volume of world trade.
(In 1961 the volume of world trade was 120 p.c. greater than
pre-war and 87 p.c. more than in 1950; it has risen by about
a quarter since 1958.)
The Institute says that: “Since 1950, the proportion of world
trade accounted for by the primary-producing and under-
developed countries has declined steeply. Whereas the volume
of exports of the industrial countries has more than doubled,
exports of the less developed areas have risen by a mere 40
p.c. But in values the contrast is even more striking. The
prices of agricultural products and raw materials, which are
virtually the sole exports of the under-developed countries,
are now nearly 10 p.c. lower than in 1950. Against this, the
prices of manufactured goods have risen by 30 p.c. The
result is that manufactures now comprise a much larger share
of the value of world trade, and food and raw materials a
much smaller share.
“The declining contribution of the primary industries to the
international exchange of goods is attributed to several causes.
“First, throughout Europe there has been a noticeable desire
to achieve greater self-sufficiency in cereals and other food-
stuffs.
“Second, in the richer countries the consumption of staple
foods has tended to stagnate, or even decline, with rising
incomes. In Western Europe, the principal importer of many
food crops, and in the United States, a major market for many
tropical products, expenditure on food has lagged significantly
behind the rise in total expenditure.
“Third, there has been increasing resort by the industrial
countries to synthetic substitutes made in their own factories.
Over the past decade, we have seen a fantastic growth in
plastic and man-made fibres to the detriment of base metals
and natural fibres.”
The IPA points out that: “The sluggish growth in world
demand for primary products has led to mounting trade deficits
in the under-developed countries of Asia and South America.
But at the same time that their export incomes have been lag-
ging, their import needs have been rising. Besides substantial
imports of capital goods and raw materials for industrial
development, the low-income countries also need large quanti-
ties of foodstuffs to feed their growing populations.
“The compelling need for a rapid acceleration of the pace
of economic growth in the non-industrial countries in order
to raise standards of life from their present near-subsistence
levels is recognised as one of the major challenges facing the
world at the present time.
“Some idea of the magnitude of this task may be gained
from an estimate made by the United Nation’s Statistical
Office. In order to achieve an increase in the per head income
for the under-developed countries from their present meagre
levels of an average of about £5O to £7O by 1969, their
average annual per head rate of economic growth of 1.8 p.c.
in the 1950’s has risen to 3.2 p.c. during the 1960’5.
“But this acceleration in the rate of growth would entail a
doubling of imports; this increase is far beyond the present
capacity of the under-developed countries to finance out of
their present or prospective export earnings. They are thus
critically dependent on the industrial countries for both trade
and aid.”
TAiscussing the “disturbing influence” of the United States in
world trade in primary commodities, it states: “Huge sur-
pluses of these commodities have been accumulated as a
consequence of the farm price support programmes of the
American Government. In 1959-60, 71 p.c. of America’s
wheat exports, 50 p.c. of rice exports and 26 p.c. of maize
exports were sold on non-commercial terms to assist under-fed
peoples in the poorer countries and in an effort to reduce
surplus stocks. Although America’s share of world output of
most primary products is no greater than pre-war (in the case
of cotton considerably less), she is now supplying almost half
the world’s exports of wheat and cotton and two-thirds of the
maize. The pre-war proportions were: wheat 6 p.c., cotton 43
p.c. and maize 9 p.c.”
However, the Institute believes there are rays of light in all
this darkness. “Parties to GATT are now conducting a series
of conferences on the prospects of world commodity arrange-
ments with a view to setting ‘normal’, realistic prices. This


action, together with proposals—admittedly nebulous at this
stage—for a joint North American and Western European
scheme to finance food purchases by the underdeveloped
countries, offers a ray of hope for better trade opportunities
in primary commodities.
“There is also the further possibility that, as industrialisation
proceeds in Western Europe, labsr shortages alone will bring
about a change in attitude towards the wasteful use of man-
power in some European primary industries.”
Without mentioning the prospect of steps to achieve long-
term world commodity arrangements to ensure the future of
exports from the primary producing countries in the event of
Britain joining the Common Market, the IPA thinks that
despite the difficulties “the spectacular expansion of world
trade and the movement towards liberal trade policies would
seem to offer bright prospects for the future”.
In fact, it sees the Common Market itself as a most pro-
mising development in trade liberalisation. “The six members
of the Common Market have already gone a long way along
the road towards eliminiating tariff barriers between them-
selves,” it says. “With the probable entry of Britain and other
European countries into the Market, the next logical step
would seem to be a scaling down of tariffs against the outside
world. President Kennedy now has authority from Congress
to offer sweeping reciprocal tariff concessions to the Common
Market. There seems little doubt that this is one of the
principal reasons why the United States is pressing for Britain’s
entry into the European Community.
“American leaders obviously hope that Britain would help
promote the acceptance of outward-looking economic policies
within the enlarged Market, aimed at lower tariffs, world-wide
commodity agreements and other arrangements to expand
imports from the rest of the world.”
WORLD IMPORTS, 1960
Primary
Commodities Manufactures
% World % Total % Total
Population World Imports World Imports
Western Europe .. 10 48 37
North America .... 7 17 14
Asia 53 13 11
Soviet Bloc .... 10 10 10
All other 20 12 28
TOTAL 100 100 100
PERCENTAGE OF SOURCE OF
WORLD EXPORTS WESTERN EUROPE’S
(VALUES) IMPORTS
1938 1950 1960
Food & 1951 1960
Raw % of total
Materials 44.4 46.4 34.2 Western Europe 42 32
Petroleum XT , *
& Coal .. 8.2 10.0 10.0 North Amenca 15
Manu- East Europe .... 3 3
factures.. 47.4 43.6 55.8 All other 39 30
EFFECT OF WORLD AND PARTY
POLITICS ON SHARE MARKET
trouble with markets now is there is so little overseas
buying of Australian shares and from time to time heavy
sales of some of our blue chip stocks, such as that by a New
York seller of 260,000 B.H.P. a couple of weeks ago.
When 8.H.P., the bell wether of our market, continues to
be given this sort of treatment by overseas investors, the out-
look for lesser stocks is not reassuring. It seems that fears of
adverse Common Market repercussions on Australia have been
the most bearish overseas influence on shares here.
Mr Bury’s squeak was too faint to resolve the doubts created
in overseas minds by Mr McEwen’s earlier roar, and the last
ditch stand by the Commonwealth in London will not have
helped much. If the Commonwealth is going to be hurt as much
as the P.M.’s said in almost united chorus it will be, investors
in London and New York must take note.
Politics is another awkward factor for markets to contend
with. Some Melbourne brokers credit that the political uncer-
tainty is reflected in the present reluctance of investors, in-
stitutional investors especially, to take the favorable look of the
economic indices at their face value.
Against this, one of the fraternity maintains that “the almost
even balance of the political parties should not unduly affect
the investor who, in the light of experience, may well conclude
that the Opposition will show at least as much interest to re-
generate demand and employment as that displayed by the
present Government.”
Asked about this, another broker told The Bulletin that
the real trouble was that while the present Government clings
tenaciously, even if precariously, to office, the market will re-
main in the straitjacket of stability when what it really needs
to get it moving is inflation.
He thinks inflation is a virtual certainty, if and when Labor
takes over. In his view, when the Government shows more signs
of being replaced by Labor than it does at the moment.
upward movement in share prices will start in earnest. A C"
more by-elections might hurry the process.
BANKING CORPORATION’S
REPORT ON ECONOMY
annual report of the Commonwealth Banking Corpora-
tion has not yet achieved the stature, either in breadth or
profundity, of the Reserve Bank’s yearly meditations on the
economy. Yet its chairman, Mr Warren D. McDonald, creates
an engaging air of having his feet right on the ground. His
more summary conclusions generally point a very clear tale.
This year presents no exception. By and large Mr
McDonald’s survey mostly reiterates and confirms the earlier
analysis of Dr Coombs. His attitude towards 1961-62, “a
year of accelerating activity”, echoes the Reserve and he draws
attention to the unused capacity still lingering in some sections
of industry and the high level of unemployment compared
with preceding years, “except 1961”.
The corporation’s report therefore concludes in a tone of
optimism, emphasising much the same criteria of stability that
we have now learned to expect from official and near-official
sources.
“In a number of important respects, Australia entered 1962-
63 in a better position to achieve balanced growth than has
been the case for many years,” it says. “In particular, the
inflationary pressures of the past have been allayed, and con-
siderable scope exists for growth without inflation.”
Without wondering unduly why it is not yet showing very
evident signs of being fully used, the report repeats that “the
high degree of liquidity in the hands of both the banks and
the public provides a base for further expansion in 1962-63.”
Still, in a few commonsense sentences towards the end, Mr
McDonald fittingly emphasises a few of the coming problems
we must cope with. Chief among these is the population’s
changing age structure. Employment must be found for
record numbers of school-leavers in 1962-63 and following
years. More significantly, in this technological age, “a growing
proportion of these young people must be adequately trained
to meet the needs for increasing numbers of technicians, skilled


You’re so right...
■
insist on
‘BLACK &
WHITE’
4'# k '4
*4v
H fa
rf
M
li
*1
llv
(NDtIIScOTCH^H
.BLACK .
V & u
WHITE
Ij S BUCHANAN &C 1
IASCOW SCOTLwI
f fir A PP O I NT
MAJE STY 1 VA^l
SCOTCH WHISKY
BLACK & WHITE
SPECIAL BIE NO OF
„ BUCHANAN'S
CHOICE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
SCOTCH WmTTkY DISTIUtHS
GLASGOW k LONDON
Ht«UUCMt*$ oiSTlllfßY MUttfN SHfSIM SCOTIA**D
N ET CONTENTS I PINT 6 PLUIO OZS
•OTTifO UNDID Th| JuPIPVIS'O** OF
COMMONWIAITM CUs>o*S
BLACK&WHITE
SCOTCH WHISKV
‘"BUCHANAN'S"
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO. LTD., GLASGOW, SCOTLAND & LONDON
JB 148
tradesmen and professional people.”
A further concomitant will be
“rapidly growing teenage consumer de-
mand, and later, as these young people
marry, a growth in housing require-
ments and associated demand for
durable goods.”
The affluent society apparently won’t
be arrested for long, though these prob-
lems, “coupled with the necessity of
maintaining balanced growth, . . . will
require the greatest possible co-operation
between the various sectors of the Aus-
tralian economy.”
Of course, it is mainly for an account
of the corporation’s own progress, and
the constituent trading, savings and
development banks, that the report is
awaited. The year to June 30 seems to
have been quite expansive. Combined
assets have reached £1,345 million, an
increase in the year of £9B million.
Trading bank deposits attained an
average level of £303 million in June,
thus showing a £2l million rise against
the averaae annual increase of £l9
million in the preceding nine years.
Lending commitments, in line with
credit policy relaxations, jumped to more
than twice 1960-61 levels, though actual
advances outstanding added only £l4
million to reach £162 million. Liquid
assets did not go below 30 p.c. of
deposits in any one month and in June
stood at 31 p.c. (June, 1961, 28 p.c.).
A record 760,000 customers’ accounts
were handled and profit went up from
£793,884 to £857,808.
Depositors’ balances in the savings
bank leapt by £SO million to £873
million, the result of “a strong upward
trend” early in 1961-62. Late in 1960-
61, substantial additional funds were
allocated to increase activity in the
home building industry, and housing
received continuous attention throughout
1961-62. In the second half of the year,
the rate of loan approvals to local and
semi-governmental bodies was increased
to help extra works programmes.
Savings bank profit drifted back from
£2,183,948 to £1,435,966. Discount and
interest earned moved up only from
£12,702,851 to £12,789.225, while
expenses increased from £10,363,337
to £11,186,700.
A once contentious development bank
now proceeds on its accepted way
supplementing, not replacing, “the
normal sources of finance available to
primary producers and industrial under-
takings through other institutions.”
Approved loans were raised by £2.2
million to £13.0 million, spread over
2,527 applicants.
Rural loans comprised £9.9 million
of this total, mainly for sheep farming
activities. The development bank also
furnished £16.2 million for equipment
finance on hire-purchase terms, an in-
crease of £2.1 million on 1960-61.


WAGE AND SALARY EARNERS IN CIVILIAN EMPLOYMENT
(Excluding Wage Earners in Rural Industry, Eemale Private Domestics and Defence Forces)
(Thousands)
June July June July
1961 1961 1962 1962
Mining and Quarrying
49.8
49.7
47.9
47.9
Manufacturing ....
.... .... 1,135.5
1,128.2
1,181.2
1,182.3
Building and Construction
211.6
209.5
211.8
209.7
Transport and Communication
357.9
356.6
(a) 349.8
(a) 350.1
Finance and Property
131.4
131.3
134.2
134.1
Commerce
477.4
474.7
483.5
480.4
Public Authority Activities (n.e.i.)
141.3
142.7
144.8
145.4
Community and Business Services ....
339.6
340.5
357.7
358.8
Other Industries
176.4
175.6
177.1
176.6
TOTAL ....
3,020.9
3,008.8
(a) 3,088.0
(a) 3,085.3
Private Employment .... ....
2,213.4
2,200.0
(a) 2,261.2
(a) 2,259.1
Government Employment
N.B.: (a) Affected by industrial disputes.
807.5
808.8
826.8
826.2
ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
CLIMB-BACK FROM RECESSION IS NOTABLE
/"Even the inevitability of the reces-
sion following the over-spill of in-
vestment in the late 1950’5, the achieve-
ment in pushing the employment figure
from its nadir of 3,003,009 in Septem-
ber last year back to about its 1960 boom
level is notable.
True there was a falling off of 2,700
in July (the latest month for which
figures are available), but the total em-
ployed in that month was affected by in-
dustrial disputes and the drop doesn’t
represent a change in the upward trend
of employment.
Measured against the low point of the
recession, employment has increased by
82,000 and over the 12 months to July
by 76,500, making the figure 3,085,000
as against 3,088,000 in June 1962, and
3,084,000 in December 1960. (All these
figures exclude wage earners in rural in-
dustry, women in private domestic em-
ployment and defence forces).
True, projected on the same screens
as the high labor absorption rate over the
1960’s and the present 90,000 involun-
tarily unemployed, the recovery in em-
ployment over the last year gives no
grounds for complacency. On the con-
trary, it has been achieved at the cost of
slowing down immigration, the pre-re-
quisite of rapid growth and from all
points of view it has been unnecessarily
slow.
To grasp this point one doesn’t neces-
sarily have to go the whole way with
Sir Douglas Copland, who abhors sta-
bility when it means the sacrifice of all-
out growth. Sir Douglas, getting more
and more impatient of stability as the
years pass, wants the economy to be go-
ing flat out all the time, but he is out of
step with sound economic thinking on
the subject of feasible growth rates and
much else applicable to tenable levels of
economic activity.
For instance, the level-headed Institute
of Public Affairs (Victoria) in its latest
review “rejects the idea that growth is of
a higher priority than stability of costs
and prices and in the balance of pay-
ment.” It disputes that there are priori-
ties in all these matters, and contends
that “without stability of prices and con-
tinued strength in external finances,
growth itself would be jeopardised. Nor,
incidentally, is it “entirely enamoured of
national economic planning and target
setting (at any rate in the Australian
context) as a means of speeding up the
rate of growth”.
Taking a studied and strictly economic
view, and still conceding that economic-
ally we have left untaken steps which we
ought to have taken to get a fuller em-
ployment of resources since 1960, the
slack in the labor market over the last
18 months has had its advantages. Em-
ployers and work force alike have been
sobered up after the heady days of 1960,
and as a result a more realistic concep-
tion of the value and quality of labor has
emerged on both sides of the employment
fence.
On the employers’ side there has been
a much needed improvement in the direc-
tion and application of labor, even if in
ridding themselves of the fluff in their
employment structures they have ex-
acerbated the unemployment situation.
Indeed, one of the reasons why the re-
covery in employment has been slower
than generally hoped for is that manv
firms have learned to do more work with
a smaller wage force and are reluctant
to forgo the consequent gains in pro-
ductivity.
There could be some crossed lines on
this score between company executives
looking at productivity and Ministers at
the level of unemployed. Indeed, there
could be differences between, say, the
Departments of Trade and Tabor, the
one anxious to minimise costs for export
purpose, the other wanting industry to
take on as much labor as possible.
On the other side, the slackness in the
labor market has had a marked effect
on what can be roundly called the supply
price of labor. In a word, the more
tenuous security of employment has im-
proved the efficiency of labor. Psycho-
logical and other forces (H.P. instalments
for instance) have prompted most em-
ployees to work harder, with more alert-
ness, better attendances (less absentee-
ism) and so on.
This in turn has been reflected in labor
organisation. Industrial differences have
been pressed less hard, labor disputes are
less prolonged and the unions go less
wholeheartedly before the Arbitration
Commission, though not less often.
Thus, slackness in the labor market
brings gains in productivity both from
better direction of labor and from im-
proved performance and response by
labor itself.
Yet clearly the nearer we get to “full”
employment of labor the less powerfully
these forces are bound to be effective in
maintaining and improving productivity.
But what is “full” employment? At what
point do attitudes on the two sides of
industry change to the detriment of pro-
ductivity in this matter?
Last week one learned on the best
authority that the Government expects
unemployment to be reduced to 75,GU0
by October. Also, that the content of this
75,000 is such that a further reduction
would mean a decisive swing ihom slack-
ness to tightness in the labor market.
This in turn would give the oppor-
tunity of accomodating a bigger inflow
of migrants and at the same time offer
good prospects of absorbing the expected
53,000 or so school leavers who will be
seeking empoyment from December on-
wards.
It must be remembered that the suc-
cessful absorption of school leavers this
year owed a lot to the reduction in new
migrants. The inflow of migrants is still
low and should continue to be low until
well into next year. Provided industrial
activity retains its rising momentum, the
absorption of school leavers should be
made easier by this.
Perhaps one should not be too mindful
of the ill-effects on productivity nor pos-
sible resurgence in organised labor’s de-
mands next year when this prospect for
labor absorption is opening up. But they
are by-products that have to be reckoned
with just as surely as the build up of
inflationary pressure and ultimately ris-
ing prices are to be expected when the
economy is working at the pace required
to absorb wage earners at “full” employ-
ment levels (counting in a rising number
of migrants and school leavers).


CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on Btb March* 1950*
PER ANNUM 3 YEARS
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE
UNSECURED
DEPOSIT NOTES
MOO
Vz %Pi A. 3 years
% P.A. 2 years
Vz % P A. 12 mths.
FUNDS MAY BE WITHDRAWN IN A PERSONAL EMERGENCY
APPLICATIONS MUST BE MADE ON THE FORM ATTACHED
TO THE PROSPECTUS, WHICH IS NOW AVAILABLE FROM:
The Company's Registered Offices
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Fir.. Empire House, Corner Wharf and Queen Streets.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street.
PERTH: 81 St. George's Terrace.
CANBERRA: Ist Floor, Northbourne Chambers. Northbourne Ave., City.
NEWCASTLE WEST: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter Street.
WAGGA: 147 Bayliss Street.
Any Member of the Stock Exchange
or from any of the following Brokers to The Issue:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
TRUSTEES FOR THE NOTEHOLDERS:
Bankers & Traders Insurance Company Limited CCI44/AB
-Clip and Post Coupon •
TB 22/9
Cambridge Credit Corporation Limited,
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me without obligation a copy of the prospectus with applicat.on forms.
ADDRESS
Mr. HOLT COULD HARDLY SAY NO
By “CROESUS”
Although Mr Holt (Mr McEwen, too,
for that matter) has been playing
second fiddle to the Prime Minister at
the London Conference, his discussions
with the Treasury there and also in
Washington where the International
Monetary Fund and World Bank annual
meetings were being held last week,
have been on the upper scales of import-
ance for this country.
Treasurers are perforce reticent to
talk about their performances at such
discussions except in very guarded terms,
and Mr Holt is most unlikely to reveal
much of what went on this time.
Clearly the most important subject on
Mr Holt’s London agenda was the
future of sterling should Britain go into
the Common Market What changes did
Britain envisage in sterling area arrange-
ments? Would sterling be devalued (as
the franc was on the eve of formation
of the Common Market in 1959) to ease
the path of Britain’s exports to Europe
in the early stages of its membership?
Just as Mr McEwen has failed to get
precise answers on the future of our
exports to Britain, it could be that Mr
Holt found the Chancellor of the
Exchequer very guarded on the subject
of sterling area arrangements. More
than likely though, since Britain does
very well out of being the banker to the
sterling area and since there are plenty
of willing international agencies and
central banks to sheer up sterling these
davs, Mr Maudling was fairly reassuring.
Now, also, Britain is talking from
currency strength, whereas on his visit
there a year ago Mr Holt found it
struggling painfully out of a sterling
crisis, Bank Rate still up in the clouds
and all sorts of restrictive measures on
internal extravagance. Moreover, sterl-
ing is as hard as any Continental or
dollar currency today and the prospect
of linking with The Six which hold 40
per cent, of the world’s monetary
reserves is looming.
The prospects for sterling offer strong
inducements for Australia to stick to it.
Devaluation of sterling is now considered
a very long shot in the City of London
should Britain enter the Common Mar-
ket within the next six months, as seems
probable now. Also it is expected that,
once in, London’s future as a leading
international financial centre will be
assured.
London expects a big lift from Con-
tinental business when its Common Mar-
ket link is joined and its closer financial
affinity with Europe will be all to Aus-
tralia’s advantage. If Britain doesn’t
join, Australia, like the rest of the
sterling area, would find itself increas-
ingly on the outer of the vigorously
growing Common Market. As the
London Economist put it last week, in
posing for the oversea Commonwealth
countries the question of Britain’s entry:
Do we want a key to the European door
or not?
“If the answer were to prove a
negative one,” says The Economist,
“that would tragically —suggest that
the Commonwealth had exhausted its
vein of dexterous adaptability to change
in the world. Mother would then be well
advised to do something shocking:
switch off her deaf aid and go on
regardless with the course of action that
is necessary.”
If looking only at the implications for
Australia’s external financial future, Mr
Holt has reason to help, not to hinder,
the success of Britain’s application for
membership. And maybe he is more
aware of this after his latest talks with
the British Treasury.


INVESTMENT SECTION
THE BRIGHTENING PICTURE OF B H P
11/hile waiting on the November
interim, BHP shareholders will be
scanning their chairman’s address with
fond and scholastic thoroughness. Mr
Colin Syme’s cryptic circlings around
dividend and certain other capital matters
left plenty of ground for finespun exam-
ination. Though it must appear rather too
lordly to have left a possible dividend
lift, the subject of so much discussion
and speculation, in such suspense.
On the other hand, and of equal
immediate importance, Mr Syme painted
a firm and considerably brighter picture
of the company’s current local trading.
This one element, at least, can correct
some of the glumness reflected in the
annual report. There are plenty of pro-
blems still remaining, but BHP has been
able to add a clear and fundamental voice
to the chorus of clear economic improve-
ment.
As we have pointed out previously
BHP’s 1961-62 profit slip was no great
thing in itself, for the company. Yet the
factors which produced it were crucial,
for the country. Continuing reduced de-
mand for steel would constitute a gravely
ominous danger signal.
The directors’ report accompanying the
accounts had mentioned a noticeable
fillip in domestic ordering. Now Mr Syme
comes along to indicate a further upward
trend, with “local sales . . . now at a high
level for practically all our finished pro-
ducts.”
It is worthwhile carrying on with the
rest of this significant paragraph, for it
should spell a plain lesson to investors
and the economy at large. “The first three
months of this financial year (i.e. to
August) have shown substantially better
results than the same period last year.
Two factors are mainly responsible for
this; firstly, the return of local demand to
higher levels and, secondly, the bringing
into operation of important new equip-
ment that has been under construction
for some time chiefly the cold rolling
mill and electrolytic tinplate plant at
Port Kembla.”
Statements like that should go a long
way towards helping to raise the unneces-
sary pall of irresolution still allowed to
linger over business attitudes. If it is
domestic confidence we need, basic sec-
tions of the economy are clearly on the
march and BHP brings welcome con-
firmation.
Nevertheless Mr Syme cannot portray
all sunshine. The nagging worry of the
company’s export programmes still re-
main. This situation is again vital, and
for Australia as well, since so much of
BHP’s recent expansion of capacity has
been built around the feasibility of large
exports.
Even in the last tricky year, BHP
brought up export sales by about £lB
million to £29 million —though “the re-
turn from such sales has generally been
below the return to be expected from
equivalent sales on the domestic market.”
All recent experience has clearly shown
the uncertainty of export business, “both
as to availability and profitability.”
Worse is to come. The free world’s
steel output by 1965 will be more than
50 p.c. above present levels. “However,
current market conditions suggest that
expansion in capacity may not be
matched by an equal growth in demand,
and if this proves to be the case, export
prices will remain under severe pressure.”
It takes little perspicuity to realise the
urgency of holding costs competitively,
not only for the possibility of exports but
also to retain “the ability of our Aus-
tralian customers to maintain their mar-
kets against competitors using foreign
steel.”
Here Mr Syme paused to indicate the
attention given to reducing costs by
improved technology and productivity.
And here also he raised, for extended
treatment later, the costs of servicing
developmental capital. “The decision of
the directors to raise a considerable
amount of fixed interest capital was made
against this background.”
“A prime instrument of security,” the
first mortgage debenture, was therefore
created “to support any borrowings which
may be sought in the future.” Share-
holders, their eyes alight with dividend
and issue chances, are left to ponder and
tease the following subtleties.
“These issues provide relatively cheap
finance, which must ultimately enhance
the value of shareholder’s equity in the
company. The board does not presently
have any plans to make further debenture
issues, but will continue to have regard
to a proper balance in the financial
structure of the company.” That was Mr
Syme’s contribution to the expectant in-
vestment atmosphere.
"...So, son, I've decided you're old enough to be told some of the
facts of life. Now, as you know, people are divided into two kinds
bulls and bears..."


On time
every time
- r ..rH
% ysm
m
A
,
/ r
£-~-i
C?
£-3
-A . «*»*
X.&W:. .X.
With a highly trained staff, pantechnicions and equipment
especially designed for fast safe transportation, Mayne Nickless
operate Australia's most reliable interstate freightways. To
facilitate the fast handling of all goods, Mayne Nickless main-
tain a large fleet of Radio Pick-up trucks.
MAYNE NICKLESS LTD.
INCORPORATING ANTILL RANGER
Australia's most reliable Interstate Freightways
SYDNEY* NIELBOURNE*BRISBANE*PERTH
ADELAIDE • CANBERRA • NEWCASTLE
PORT KEMBLA • LAUNCESTON • HOBART
Fast daily schedules
+0 all main centres.
Wi
acfxxw
FOR EVERY TRANSPORT NEED
"jl/fouNT Isa’s distressing profit retreat
does not merely illuminate the dire
effects of the eight-week-long strike
which closed the mine between September
25 and November 22 last. Considerable
effects from that shutdown were expected,
both from loss of production and the
sheer continuance of most overhead costs.
Future output remained unimpaired, for,
as the chairman (Mr G. R. Fisher)
philosophically observed, “The ore is
still in the ground.” What is more, all
recent assays provide solid evidence of
still increasing reserves.
It is precisely upon this future that
the trend of commodity prices, here cop-
per, lead and zinc, focuses. Some of
the 1961-62 earnings drop—a massive
42.7 p.c. fall from £5,929,087 to
£3,392,976 must especially have
derived from further declines in lead and
zinc. Directors’ exact apportionments
will be eagerly awaited.
Up till now, Isa’s higher overall output
has been able both to offset increased
costs and compensate for lower world
prices. Perhaps, under more normal con-
ditions, slower profit growth might have
ensued anyhow. But the tremendous ex-
pansion programme, moving even ahead
of schedule and to culminate in a 14,400-
ton daily output by 1966, could be ex-
pected to counteract most hindering in-
fluences.
Whatever happens locally, world prices
will need careful watching. And ration-
alised commodity schemes look some
distance away. Even agreed schemes to
date seem to have been somewhat erratic
in their application.
Certainly disciplined efforts have held
the spot price of copper moderately stable
at around £stg234 a ton for some time.
Forward prices, though, have displayed
some jaggedness even following produc-
tion and sales cuts.
But lead and zinc prices have skidded
disastrously, despite various supports and
controls. Lead touched a low of £s7+ a
ton during 1961 and now stands around
£5l. Zinc w'ent from £77+ to around £64
a ton.
Mount Isa itself would suffer most
from the zinc situation and cannot take
much consolation from the fact that de-
mand for zinc looks better in the long
run. The whole design of expansion has,
of course, been directed principally
towards copper.
HThe first public group balance sheet of
A Mauri Brothers & Thomson Ltd. be-
came available during the week, and at
first blush was not as exciting as had
been imagined.
The first consolidated profit figures an-
nounced several weeks ago indicated
clearly that profits were well in excess of
dividend payments and, consequently,
that large amounts had been ploughed
back into the business. This was a pat-
tern which presumably had taken place
over many years.
So, it was somewhat of a shock to see
net assets equal to only 9/- for each 57-
share issued when the accounts them-
selves came to hand this week. The share
market, even after taking a rather dim
view of the group profit, had valued the
shares around 21/- each.
Moreover, the accounts did not really
reveal any substantial undervaluation of
assets; although it could reasonably be
suggested that assets are in the books at
very low figures, creating hidden
reserves.
But, it is not adequate for shareholders
to have to guess as to the “real” valu-
ation.
However, freehold and leasehold land
and buildings is valued at (cost or valua-
tion) £2,428,801. These buildings house
the 52 subsidiaries of the group through-
out Australia. An examination of a few
of these properties alone places consider-
able doubt on the book valuation.
Plant, too, at a net cost valuation of
£1,660,381 is presumably under replace-
ment value, or earning value. The same
could apply to stocks (lower of cost
or market value £2,639,326), and
debtors (unstated method of valuation
£1,894,790).
Last, shares in associated and other
companies (at cost or valuation) are
shown at £192,704. These associated
companies (in which Mauri has “sub-
stantial” interests) include several large
ones Champions Vinegar, Liquid
Carbonic, Meyer Liquid, Australasian
Pickle and Stevenson and Howell
essences.
So, it is possible to suggest that as-
set values are truly well in excess of the
figures shown. But, it is purely guess-
work to say how far in excess.
The price to be paid for the shares,
then, also remains in the realm of gues-
sing. On disclosed earnings the present
price is too high. On “guessed” earnings
it probably is just about right.
npHERE are many reasons why investors
have continued to shy away from
equity investment in hire purchase and
general finance businesses. Latec and
the like have provided the most recent
psychological demurrer.
However, for those who have complete
faith in the credit industry, there are
several leading stocks which could be
bought without fear of failure.
Management remains the keynote to
the success of a finance paper operation.
Good paper and right decisions at the
right times mean added rewards to share-
holders.
The last two years have truly sorted out
finance management and many a house
remains intact. So, to the share market.
Of them, leaders lAC (Holdings) and
Australian Guarantee Corporation offer
splendid opportunity for capital appreci-
ation, capital growth and relatively high
immediate income.
AGC, particularly, appears underpric-
ed, giving a dividend yield of 5.4 p.c.
from the ss. shares at 13s. lOd. This
company has not put a foot wrong in the
last two years.
1%/Tany public companies are now
* boasting to their shareholders about
how many countries they export to. They
may still be perhaps understandably shy
about disclosing their total turnover. But
the investing public would appreciate,
and find more useful, a statement on the
proportion of total sales which are
exports.


cement twins, Kandos Cement Co.
Ltd, (in NSW) and Australian
Cement Ltd (in Victoria) have been neg-
lected by investors lately.
Their operating company, Australian
Portland, is spending £5 million on ex-
pansion of the Geelong works at a time
when a member of the Blue Circle group
(Victorian Portland Cement Co. Pty) is
establishing a completely new plant about
10 miles away.
The Blue Circle plant will have an
initial capacity of 200,000 tons per an-
num, whereas Australian Portland’s plant
will have a capacity of 800,000 tons after
extensions.
Undoubtedly the cement business will
be much more keenly contested than in
the past, but Australian Portland should
have a good edge on the new group for
a long time.
The protracted issue by Australian
Cement and Kandos—to finance the new
plant—has weakened the price of entry
to these blue chip stocks. Sellers are
more in evidence than buyers, and al-
though Australian Cement fully-paid
shares, for instance, brought 225. in July,
they went begging recently at 18s.
The contributing shares (with 3s. 9d.
capital and 9d. premium to pay) failed to
attract a buyer either at 135., yet the
total cost of 17s. 6d. would return a
solid 3.6 p.c. As State probate laws favor
investment in the Victorian company, so
Kandos shares usually sell a little
cheaper. Thus the Kandos contribs
brought only 12s.
Tt is interesting to see a broker sub-
dividing his recommendations into
three categories.
First is a list of stocks for income. In
this the minimum yield is about 6 p.c.,
as for E. A. Machin and Co. Ltd, Mel-
bourne distributor of automotive parts
and industrial and domestic appliances,
which has just raised its earnings rate
from 24.2 p.c. (1961) to 26.9 p.c. and
continued a string of 20 p.c. dividends.
Not much cover, but a good payer,
with 235. net tangible assets for the 10s.
shares currently around 335. 6d.
Others to figure on the income list are
mostly stocks with a narrow margin be-
tween dividends and earnings, such as
A.P.M., British Tobacco and Associa-
ted Leathers, or with no cover at all (at
least not from 1961 results) as for Elec-
tronic Industries!
Top yield in this section is Wm. Crosby
(Holdings), a mixed Melbourne shipping,
travel, insurance, trading and manufac-
turing group, which offers a dividend
yield of 8.1 p.c. on the 1961 payment
of 15 p.c. from 15.4 p.c. earnings. Here
yield payment and earnings are better
matched.
Second group provides for income plus
good growth prospects. Yields vary from
6.9 to 4.7 p.c., lowest being for the ss.
shares of O. T. Lempriere and Company,
Melbourne smelters and refiners, which
announced a 1 p.c. increase in dividend
on a pre-bonus basis last week. Highest is
for Custom Credit's ss. shares, now 10s.
6d. and with H.P. business on the way
up, surely a good buy. In this list the
emphasis looks to be on stocks of com-
panies which weathered the recession well
and have since lifted their performance
in the recovery.
This list embraces a catholic selection
of industries, tobacco (Rothmans) trans-
port (Silverton) petroleum (H. C. Sleigh)
retail trade (G. P. Fitzgerald) automotive
components (G.U.D. and Brooklands),
appliances (Sun Electric and Pye), banks
(National), hire purchase (A.G.C. and
Custom), and others.
Third group soes directly for growth,
the highest yield being 4.2 p.c. for Dural
Leeds Holdings, Melbourne blind manu-
facturer, and the lowest for A.U.C. (1.6
p.c.) which has been performing well in
markets lately.
Notable absentee from this section is
Union Carbide. Some other fallen favor-
ite growth stocks are also absent.
One might question the inclusion of
Brolite, Victorian industrial paint and
lacquer manufacturer, now yielding only
2.6 p.c. on the 15 p.c. dividend. The 1962
results are still to come but earnings
dipped from 51.8 to 36.6 in 1961.
\ nnouncement of trading results for
the year to June 30 was music to
the ears of shareholders in Nightingale
Supply Co. Ltd.
Profit almost doubled, moving up
£24,340 to £50.869, and allowed a divi-
dend increase from 8 to 131 p.c. (The
earning rate rocketed from 14 to 30.2
p.c.)
In June the shares moved up from
11s. to 13s. and directors felt compelled
to declare that no takeover offer had
been received, and no negotiations were
being conducted for one.
This share trading subsequently proved
to be something other than sheer specu-
lation. Someone had wind of the bumper
business.
Shareholders of Castlemaine Perkins
Ltd, Brisbane, have had a 75 p.c.
increase in income since 1959. The com-
pany has just announced a dividend rate
of 14 p.c. for 1961-62, so excellent re-
sults must be in the offing.
In 1959 a 10 p.c. dividend ruled. This
was increased to 12 p.c. in 1960, which
rate was held in 1961 after a one-for-four
bonus.
The new company legislation will
bring this brewer’s tax provision to light
for the first time.
Castlemaine lost Queensland Brewery
to Carlton and United of Victoria in a
takeover battle in February, 1961, but
the new power doesn’t seem to have done
the local company much harm.
HThe respect which the market pays to
Keith Harris and Co. Ltd, NSW
flavoring specialist, essential oil distiller,
manufacturing chemist and importer, ap-
pears fully justified by its latest profit
reported at £86,796.
Liability for tax was estimated at
£66,255, some £24,055 higher than in
1960-61. Provisions for doubtful debts
(£3000), contingencies (£5000) and
fruit-price fluctuations (£6000) had no
counterpart in 1961, so the real profit
improvement was much better than the
company, in its admirable conservatism,
cares to admit.
Shareholders were rewarded by a
30th birthday bonus dividend of 2} p.c.
over and above their eight-year-old 15
p.c. dividend.
Ane of the old Victorian companies,
Albion Quarries, which has been go-
ing since 1948, managed to lift its profit
a shade in the hotly competitive Vic-
torian market last year with a rise from
£287,204 to a record £295,550, so man-
aging to hold its 15 p.c. rate on slightly
higher capital resulting from siiare ex-
changes for the acquisition of a ready-
mixed group in South Australia and a
stone deposit in Northern Victoria last
year.
However, like Reid’s Quarries (a big-
ger concern which has linked with Ready
Mixed Concrete in a joint ready-mixed
venture) earning rate slipped despite the
higher net profit. In Reid’s case it was
down from 24.5 to 19.6 p.c. and in
Albion's from 22.7 to 22.1 p.c.
The rougher weather in the quarrying
field treated another Victorian company,
Consolidated Quarries, rather more
harshly in that in its case profits and
earnings both dropped last year. Profits
were down from £97,584 to an amended
figure of £86,419 (excluding losses from
the sale of fixed assets) and earnings
from 30.1 to 25.6 p.c. on the same capi-
tal, leaving lower cover for the 171 p.c.
steady dividend.
T eighton Contractors Ltd which
floated a few months ago, has top-
ped its prospectus estimate by lifting net
profit by 20 p.c. or from £51,126 to
£61,427 for the year to June, thus pro-
viding better than expected cover of 24.6
p.c. for whatever rate of dividend the
directors may decide on later this
month. Pending the dividend announce-
ment (the prospectus forecast 10 p.c.),
the shares have retreated a few pence to
around nine shillings, which still leaves
them highly priced in relation to A. V.
Jennings at 7s. Bd., considering the lat-
ter’s greatly improved performance last
year and the huge volume of work it has
on hand all over the Commonwealth.


FINANCE
CORPORATION
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in South Australia)
FULLY SECURED
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
7£%
PER ANNUM 10 YEARS
5f%
PER ANNUM 2 YEARS
Prospectuses should be
obtained from and applications made to: —
JOINT BANKERS TO THE ISSUE
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
Members of the Stock Exchanges
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney,
Perth
Applications for Debenture Stock can be accepted only
on the printed form attached to the prospectus.
U 476
TJowling Centres (Holdings) Ltd
** made almost as much profit from
disposal of surplus properties (£115,436)
as it did from operating the bowling
alleys (£130,030 net of tax) in the year
to June 30.
Old and new ss. shares are hovering
round par until the first quarterly
dividend materialises.
Prospectus estimate was that dividends
of at least 10 p.c. could be paid after
nine alleys had been in operation for
twelve months. Only three were oper-
ating for the whole of last year, but
there are now 11 open.
roup results of Melbourne tool
manufacturer and merchant, Mc-
Phersons Ltd, will be out within a
month. Meantime shareholders are in-
formed that parent profit fell nearly
14 p.c. in the year to June.
In retrospect the one-for-two bonus
has proved just a gesture on the part of
directors apart from the fact that share
prices were scaled down to limits within
the reach of a greater number of in-
vestors. The 8J p.c. dividend rate now
paid is equivalent to the 12i p.c. pre-
bonus, and on present indications any
increment will be some time in coming.
This year’s group profit will probably
give only a very fine margin to add to
reserves.
news for shareholders in Big
Sister Foods Ltd of Sydney was the
33 p.c. profit increase and announce-
ment of an unchanged final dividend of
7J p.c. on capital enlarged by the one-
for-four bonus.
After an interim 7£ p.c. this is equal
to 18f p.c. per annum on pre-bonus
capital, compared with the 15 p.c.
actually paid last year. The merits of
the stock, however, are well recognised,
for they last sold at 265. 9d. to yield
2.8 p.c.
Sales, both local and overseas, con-
tinued to grow, and the company plans
extension of its buildings to provide
more manufacturing space.
HThe 20s. shares of Malleys Ltd traded
at about 235. 6d. offer good recovery
prospects to the courageous buyer pre-
pared to await the turn of economic
wheels.
The 1961-62 results announced last
week (recouping much of the ground lost
the previous year) surely indicate the
crisis is past. Investors allowed the
shares to drift just below par last year
because the 1960-61 profit of £71,558
was boosted by £50,000 brought in
from tax paid stock provision.
But there’s no need for the market to
be so suspicious or cautious about the
latest profit of £159,112. True, the
tax provision was a low £.76,200, but
some tax benefits should have accrued
from the company’s export business.
Last month we heard that Malleys’
export sales increased by 500 p.c., and
it now serves 14 countries as well as
the Pacific Islands, even competing with
Britain in many markets.
Even in the troubled times of 1960-
61 the company kept faith with share-
holders by digging deep to pay a 5 p.c.
dividend. The rate is now up to 6 p.c.,
and this old-established concern will be
anxious to resume the 10 p.c. rate paid
in the previous five years.
Asset backing is something like 345.,
so the trusting investor looks well
secured by assets.


Perth and Melbourne brokers are get-
ting together again after their com-
bined success in launching Bowra Hold-
ing a few weeks ago.
This time Melbourne broker A. C.
Goode and Company is linking with
Hartley Poynton and Company of the
Perth Exchange to float Swan Quarries
Limited, a new company (and really
starting from scratch) to get into the
thriving quarrying and ready-mixed busi-
ness in the Perth and Kwinana area.
Prospectus won’t be available for an-
other two weeks and listing is not ex-
pected (Melbourne and Perth) until about
mid-November.
The general public need not bother to
apply for the new issue, because all
shares are reserved for clients of the
underwriters.
Promoters expect a dividend rate of 8
p.c. to be covered about twice in the
absence of any material changes in eco-
nomic conditions. With all the develop-
ment, standard gauge railway as well
as industrial and road building going on
in WA, the quarrying plant, which will
have a daily output of at least 1000
cubic yards of crushed stone, will find
a good market when it gets into opera-
tion by about the middle of next year.
"Orokers first quoted a wide price for
Compounding Investments Australia
on the recent death of its guiding star,
45-year-old Mr. G. W. McK. Wilson,
who was also the senior partner in Mel-
bourne broking firm McKinley Wilson
and Company. But since the company
reported a lift from £9479 to £16,690
in net profit for the year to June last
and the receipt of its first dividend from
All States Discount Ltd, an authorised
dealer in the short term money market,
the price has both narrowed and moved
higher to 11s.-11s. lOd. The company’s
portfolio on June 30 had a market value
of £157,551 or £8554 below cost com-
pared with a figure of about £5OOO
above cost on January 1 this year.
STTlevision companies are now demon-
strating a quicker turn-round from
losses to profits made in the early days
of TV in this country.
Tasmanian Television Ltd of Hobart
announced a profit of £60,061 for the
year to June 30, 1962, following a loss
of £6,584 the previous year. Full-time
operations began in May 1960.
Holders of the 1,200,000 ss. shares
do not collect a dividend in respect of
1961-62, as the company prefers to con-
solidate its position. The ss. shares are
now changing hands around 10s. 3d.
result of Dunlop Rubber Aust. Ltd
closely mirrored that of its competi-
tor, Olympic Consolidated Industries Ltd.
Dunlop’s profit improvement was 22
p.c., Olympic’s 25 p.c., and both profits
were records. Dunlop distributes 10 p.c.
from earnings of 19.8 p.c., and Olympic
pays out the same from earnings of 19.5
p.c. Both companies have capital of
around £9 million.
Dunlop shares now stand at 41/9,
at which price they yield 8.1 p.c.
In the depths of recessionary gloom,
the market had played these down
to 345. 3d. The 1961-62 result proves
that investors should not discount the
ability of tried-and-true performers too
heavily.
A ssociated Rural Industries Ltd
had a better year in 1961-62 than
most expected. Profit, when audited,
will come out at around £95,000 —only
£2500 less than in 1960-61.
The ss. shares hav-, iemained around
par for the last few weeks, compared
with a ‘'low” of 4s. 3d. earlier in the
year and a “high” of 6s.
The last result is equal to about 13
p.c. on capital, giving a good cover to
the 8 p.c. pay-out which has been estab-
lished.
Much of the company's activities and
time has been employed in development
of Northern Developments Holdings Ltd
in which it is still a major shareholder.
Northern Developments is closely allied
to the growth of irrigation farming in the
Kimberley District of Western Australia,
with a major farming area at Camballin
on the Fitzroy River and a leading 2300-
acre venture at Kununurra on the Ord
River.
Pioneering this commendable national
project has not been profitable to ARI;
moreover, the need for capital has been
a drain on it.
Following completion of the capital
works (diversion “barrage” and holding
dams and channels) on the Fitzroy late
last year, the stage is set for Northern
Developments to commercially and pro-
fitably produce crops such as rice, cotton,
safflower and linseed at Camballin where
it is the only farmer.
Added to this was the virtual acquisi-
tion last month (directors accepted and
recommended) of the Kimberley Pastoral
Co. which owns the leaseholds of the
Liveringa sheep property and Paradise
station in the areas surrounding Cam-
ballin.
The combination of animal agriculture
with the known high yield of fodder crops
(Sudan grass, sorghum almum, etc.) from
irrigation here adds considerable lustre
to the Camballin prospect. ARI, of
course, surrenders some of its controlling
hold on Northern Developments by issu-
ing shares to Kimberley Pastoral holders.
At Kununurra on the Ord, the stage
has been set for the beginning of another
MIA (Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area)
where ARI had much success as a leader
of rice development.
Northern Developments has been pilot
farming the area. Early next year the
first five farms will begin production.
Northern Developments could well bene-
fit from being the largest and first farmer
in this area.
There are further formidable problems
ahead in the Kimberleys, but a good deal
has been accomplished. Success will not
be sudden; but it will be evident in the
next two years.
A culture pearl venture at Thursday
Island could also bear fruit in the coming
two years. This, too, has been a drain
on resources in its development stage.
ARI has been able to maintain its
dividend from profits in other climates
while developing what appear to be
worthwhile enterprises elsewhere.
The obvious inference to draw is that
if these new endeavors prove successful
then ARI must reap considerable re-
wards. On this basis, the shares appear
to be worthy of investment for long-term
holding.
On the short haul, the return is high
and the market could show a substantial
lift above its present level.
IyfASSiVE expansion by takeover mostly
takes time to digest. Earning rates
slip as the new owner consolidates and
rationalises the businesses acquired.
But, Peters Ice Cream (Victoria) —
which surely needs a name change now
—this year provides the exception.
Profit jumped from £.214,093 to
£810,197 in a year in which capital
increased from £1.5 to £4.4 million.
The lift in capital came from take-
overs (including major ones such as
Grocery & General Merchants and
Gordon Edgell & Sons), a new issue,
and a bonus issue.
Earning rate on average capital em-
ployed moves UP from 19 to 21.4 p.c.
A further lift in profit will be necessary
this year to maintain that rate as average
capital will again be higher.
The result is a good one, giving com-
plete justification to the high premium
attaching to the shares, which have a 2s.
a share par value but a 7s. lOd. a share
market value.
The stock, however, does not appear
one for the speculator, but one which
would suit the genuine investor.
Peters ICE CREAM, by the way, now
controls about 70 p.c. of the nation’s
frozen vegetable production and sales; it
has a commanding position in vegetable
and food canning, is a major exporter to
37 countries and, of course, makes iced
confection.


INVESTMENT ADVISOR Y SER VICE
Oeaders of The Bulletin can use
a personal investment advisory
service.
If you have an investment prob-
lem, write to the Financial Editor,
attaching the coupon at right.
The Bulletin financial staff will
seek out the information you require.
Selected letters of enquiry will be
published (without the names of
writers) together with the Editor’s
answers.
All communications will be treated
as confidential.
COUPON
ATTACH REQUEST, AND POST
TO:
FINANCIAL EDITOR,
The Bulletin, BOX 2521 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY
MR
NAME MRS
MISS
ADDRESS:
STATE
THE BULLETIN ADVISORY
SERVICE
From a large number of readers ‘ tetters seeking "The
Bulletin's " advice on investment matters, these have been selected
for publication. The balance have been answered personally.
ss. shares l hold in L. J. Hooker
Corporation Ltd stand me in at 125.
9 d. a share. Should I take the current
low market or hold them in the hope of
them regaining some price in the forsee-
able future? Is there a chance of a com-
plete failure? —Mrs I. L. K.
The L. J. Hooker Investment Cor-
poration has not traded profitably for
two years now. A year ago the com-
pany claimed a profit of £714,518 but
upon close examination such a result
was not justified. This profit represents
substantial profits made on the sale of
assets such as Centenary Estates in Bris-
bane and were therefore classifiable as
non - recurring capital windfalls. The
directors then quite obviously put the
best possible front forward in the hope
that the trading situation would improve
in 1961-62. This did not happen and in
February this year the directors became
considerably more candid, suggesting
that trading was not profitable and that
no dividend would be paid for the year.
Later this month, possibly at the end
of next week, the result for the year to
June 30 will be announced. The market
gossip, which this time is not too far
from the truth, is that substantial loss
will be shown, with the company writing
down the value of properties purchased
at boom prices to a more realistic figure.
The share market has taken the
gloomiest view with the price of the ss.
shares down to 4s. and lower. It is hard
to be optimistic about the rate of
recovery. But any revival in real estate
and this appears inevitable should
see the Hooker group regain some of its
former glory. Problems of liquidity
have eased with links formed with major
finance houses earlier this year.
Overall there seems little likelihood of
a complete failure of the group. 1962-63
should see a return to profitable trading.
When the loss is announced the shares
may drop lower than the current value
but it would be a pity if you sold at
today’s prices when some form of re-
covery seems likely later this year or
early in 1963. It is unlikely that the
shares will ever regain the heights that
ruled two years ago. But assets have
been protected. Unless you are in urgent
need of the funds we would advise you
to await the market trend in January or
February of 1963.
What notice does a broker need to be
given when shares are to be sold?
Does the broker need to hold the
share certificates? R. W. Miller, which
came on the market recently, is un-
known to me; could you let me know
something of it? — W.J.R.
Provided you have established your-
self with your broker, he can act for
you almost immediately. A phene call
to your contact in his office will place
your transaction on his order book
immediately. With “post” trading now
in operation the broker, or his oper-
ator, can go on to the floor of the Ex-
change and attempt to complete the
transaction within minutes of your order
being taken. You will be informed of
the details by the first available mail
after the transaction is completed.
It is not necessary for your broker
to hold your scrip when he is selling
provided you are established with him.
Scrip should be forwarded with the trans-
fer form sent to you with the details of
the contract of sale.
It is essential to establish contact with
your broker. If you have not done so
we strongly advise you to do so before
attempting dealings on the Exchange.
R. W. Miller recently became a public
company and, through lan Potter & Co.,
placed ss. shares with the public at 12s.
6d. each. R. W. Miller is a holding com-
pany owning a wide range of companies.
These include Miller’s Brewery, Miller’s
Hotels, coal interests in the Hunter Valley
field, coal distribution (both local and
export), road transport, and shipping and
stevedoring.
After the recent bonus our holding in
Industrial Acceptance is nearly 7,000.
Must these bonus shares be shown as
income on the next tax return, or are
they capital increase? Is it wise to hold
so many shares in this one company.
We have accumulated it by taking up
new issues and sometimes buying rights
to even parcels. Other holdings are 700
Associated Pulp, 1500 Repco, 1500
Ampol, 375 Carpet Manufacturers, 700
Pelaco, 775 J. Gadsdens, 300 Cleck-
hecAon, 2000 Brooms, 100 CSR and
2000 Factors. We also have shares in
Automotive and General Industries. What
is your advice on the latter? — M. H. Bal-
wyn.
Your holdings of lAH shares does ap-
pear to be out of proportion to your
other investments, and we suggest you
dispose of up to 4000 shares, and use
perhaps half the proceeds to consoli-
date your CSR holding. (We presume you
have 100 CSR 20s. shares, but if they
are 100 £2O units, that’s enough.)
There is at present no law in force
to tax capital gains on share investments
in Australia made by ordinary investors,
who are not designated by Tax authorit-
ies as “traders”.
Automotive and General Industries
ss. shares are now about 2s. lid. on the
market. The interim report for the De-
cember six months was that without
Bryson Industries Ltd, the new acquisi-
tion, the group would have incurred a
substantial loss. It was decided not to
pay an interim dividend, and in future
dividends will be considered only at the
end of the financial year.
The market is apparently expecting
the company to omit a final dividend, but
if a report of more favorable trading for
the final six months is given shortly
which would not be unreasonable
the price should rally. If this eventuates
sell, as they are not promising for long
term holding.


BALANCE SHEET AND PROFIT SUMMARIES
(£’000)
Year to 30th June.
1957
1958
1959
1960
1961
1962
Current Assets
687
824
960
1177
1313
N/A
Less Current Liabilities
318
406
416
527
613
N/A
Working Capital
369
418
544
650
700
N/A
Fixed Assets
420
435
519
523
761
N/A
Total
Represented by
789
853
1063
1173
1461
N/A
Preference Capital
30
30
—
—
—
—
Ordinary Capital
385
385
511
719
900
900
Reserves
374
438
552
454
561
N/A
Operating Income
158
“207
244
327
310
358
Earnings
80
111
135
180
161
192
Dividends
28
50
58
72
95
99
Surplus
52
61
77
108
66
93
Dividend Yield p.c. (a)
7.0
6.4
3.3
3.8
3.9
3.3
Price/Earnings Ratio (a) 6.9
N/A: not yet available.
(a) based on last sale month accounts
8.5
presented.
14.4
13.2
15.0
15.4
COMPANY ANALYSIS
ELECT. EQUIPMENT SOUND AT 16s.
By “Security”
npHE recent preliminary announcement
by Electrical Equipment of Australia
Ltd indicates a 19 p.c. increase in earn-
ings with the dividend rate increased to
11 p.c. from the 101 p.c. of 1960-61.
As a result no doubt, the price of the
ordinary shares moved up from 14s. 6d.
on the 14th August to 16s. sd. on the
3rd September. It seems that those
fortunate ones who purchased the shares
during July and whose investment is
showing a 3.8 p.c. yield have made a
good selection.
Electrical Equipment was founded in
early 1950 to acquire Acelec Pty Ltd
(now known as Australian Tine Materials
Pty Ltd) and B. & S. Electrical Pty
Ltd, which was subsequently sold to
Crompton Parkinson (Australia) Pty Ltd
in 1955. The sale of this latter com-
pany followed by the acquisition of
Transmission Products Pty Ltd and two
years later by the acquisition of G.M.F.
Electric Motors Pty Ltd seems to have
marked a turning point in the company’s
history. In April 1957 the company
made a 2-for-5 cash issue and there-
after proceeded to make an issue to
shareholders each year for the next four
years resulting in an increase in divi-
dend income of 115 p.c. over six years
or at an average annual compound rate
of about 13i p.c. per annum.
Although an analyst tends to devote
a fair amount of his time to examining
figures, he is aware that these are at
best only a reflection of management.
Therefore, particularly at the present
time, investors in the shares of Elec-
trical Equipment must feel heartened by
the fact that in October 1959 the direc-
tors put on record (and re-affirmed in
1961) their general policy regarding the
management of the company. They in-
dicated that so far as major capital in-
creases were concerned their policy was
to raise capital by issuing ordinary shares
to shareholders at par. Dividends over
the ten years to 1958/59 had represented
roughly 50 p.c. of profits after tax and
any alterations to dividends were so ar-
ranged as to increase the amount distri-
buted.
So far as capital raising is concerned
it is interesting to note that over the
seven years ended 30th June 1961, ap-
proximately £385,000 was raised in the
form of cash issues to shareholders at
par while share issues to other than
shareholders amounted to only £79,000
approximately. Preference capital was
eliminated in 1958/59 and the company
has not issued any loan capital.
Over this same period, dividend dis-
tribution has increased from £26,333 to
£94,500 or by 259 p.c. The total
amount distributed over this period re-
presents about 48 p.c. of the net profit
after tax.
A lthough it is not possible to even at-
tempt a breakdown of the various
products it does seem that a fair propor-
tion of the equipment that Electrical
Equipment manufactures and imports is
related to electric power transmission and
as yet there is little evidence of any
slackening in the extension of electricity
supply. Another important area would
seem to be in the various types of in-
struments for testing and recording for
which demand would also seem to be
increasing. However, as the chairman
pointed out in his address in October
1960, the electrical manufacturing in-
dustry in Australia is highly competitive
and increased costs can only be absorbed
by a positive approach.
Nobody can predict the future, but it
is important in valuing ordinary shares
at least to make an attempt. To some,
the apparent decline in the ratio of net
profit before tax and depreciation to
shareholders funds in the last two years
may cause some concern. This ratio ex-
pressed as a percentage of the income
of the year to the funds at the beginning
of the year has moved as follows:
p.c.
1954/5 12.6
1955/6 16.0
1956/7 25.2
1957/8 26.2 (a)
1958/9 26.3
1959/60 30.7 (a)
1960/1 .... A 26.4
1961/2 24.5 (a)
(a) New capital raised in preceding year.
Using these figures as a guide but tak-
ing into account the difficulties of the
last two years and noting that the rate
either levelled out or declined after each
capital raising, but then seemed to move
up again, it is possible to see a return
to the 1959/60 level by 1966/7 given
that there will be no more violent dis-
turbances to the economy during the next
five years.
On this basis and assuming the same
tax rates, it seems quite possible that if
the company is able to continue its pre-
sent policy of distributing 50 p.c. of its
net profit after tax, dividend payout
could well increase by 50 p.c. over the
five-year period, i.e., at the annual aver-
age compound rate of about 8i p.c. per
annum.
If this rate on increase in dividend
payment could be maintained for ten
years then a current price at around 16s.
would seem reasonable on the basis of
future dividend income alone. For those
who like to estimate the future price of
the shares on the basis of current price/
earnings ratios and estimated future earn-
ings per share it would seem that a cur-
rent price of around 17s. 6d. would be
reasonable using 8 p.c. as the discount
rate and ignoring dividend income com-
pletely.
It is therefore suggested that for this
very sound stock investors who pur-
chase below 16s. should be well satisfied
but 17s. 6d. is probably the maximum
which should be paid at the present time.
They are available around 16s. this week.


A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER.
N. W C. DRAPER
iMembers oi Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor.
I’he National lYfutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street. Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: ‘NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH.
t Denham Street. Phone 6089
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stnrl< F.xrhangi
16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines)
150 Queer St. Melbourne
67-5957 (7 lines)
43 Northbourne Ave.,
City, Canberra, A.C.T.
4 0365-66
Flinders House, Crown St., Wollongong
B 5900
Telegram.-- ana Cables
■‘Rosdale" Sydney. Melbourne
in Wollonaone
LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHAKE BROKERS
Sixth Floor,
56 Hunter Street. Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Telephone: BW 5721.
Telegrams and Cables:
“LAORAM,” Sydney.
WANTED TO BUY
FOR CASH
Shares, listed or unlisted,
Forestry Bonds, etc.
J. W. GRANT & CO.
549 St. Kilda Road,
Melbourne.
Telephones: 51-6243 51-6245
Est. 1939
HELP
Donations:; 169
all the year round.
BM 2001
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
BROKER SEES HOPES IN LEASES
ADJACENT TO MOONIE
on the bird in hand dictum, the
” “logical switch” currmtly being re-
commended by a Brisbane broker from
AOG into Mid-Eastern and Amalgamated
Petroleum is not so attractive perhaps,
but the case for it has been well put.
The idea is to bracket an investment
in the Moonie field (through AOG) with
holdings in exploration companies operat-
ing to the north and south of the field,
such as Amalgamated Petroleum and
Mid-Eastern, and even Oil Development
(v/hich spudded in its first well in the
Surat basin last week) and also similarly
lowly-priced Planet.
Starting Irom the strength of Moonie
and the decision to build a pipeline, the
argument runs that exploration for oil at
this stage still has much to learn about
the geology of Australia but the view
could be taken that more pools must lie
around the Moonie area.
“Good explorers as the Union Oil
Group have been, it would be too much
to credit them with finding the only oil
in the Surat basin,” says the broker. That
is certainly a logical proposition.
The broker then proceeds to argue that
construction of the Moonie pipeline as a
common carrier must in itself increase
the comn ercial possibilities of all adja-
cent fields and that the market has yet to
appreciate this extremely important fact.
This is not so logical.
However, drawing two circles of 300-
mile radius from Moonie, it is seen that
the areas or part of them held by Amal-
gamated Petroleum and Mid-Eastern fit
conveniently into it, so it is certainly on
the cards that these areas have a better
chance of finding oil than companies
outside it, always assuming that Moonie
is not an isolated reservoir in that basin.
The latter assumption could well be
correct because at least Union has got
some oil at Cabawin, though it doesn’t
know how much—or is simply not say-
ing yet.
The broker is satisfied that “if we
accept two widely held views that an oil
field is not merely one isolated reservoir
but consists of a number of puddles in
proximity, and Jso that it generally pays
to buy oil stocks when cheap, then the
two companies breathing down Moonie’s
neck stand out.”
Perhaps they do, but the argument is
still rather hypothetical. A better risk at
the moment seems to be Oil Develop-
ment, whose well, spudded in last week,
is 150 miles distant from Moonie, some-
what outside the arbitrary radius selected
for the supporter of Amalgamated Petrol-
eum and Mid-Eastern.
This is not to say an investment in
the latter companies won’t pay olf some
day, but neither has finished its seismic
work yet.
Moonie’s latest flow
lyfooNiE No. 7 well followed the accept-
ed pattern of the field and “came
in” with much the same gusto as the
six other wells drilled to date. Again
the share market proved immune to other
than bad news with AOG shares remain-
ing exactly where they were before the
latest strike.
BULLETIN and LINANCIAL TIMES
observers always did hold great reserva-
tions about the spectacular prices of AOG
shares earlier in the game. But, as point-
ed out in THE BULLETIN last week,
Moonie is quite obviously a commercial
proposition now. The pipeline plans are
proof of that.
Again, it is becoming more and more
obvious that the field extends beyond the
confines of the drilling pattern, i.e.,
miles long and one mile wide. How far
beyond these limits it does extend is the
question that those dabbling in AOG
may ask. Only drilling outside the
known confines will provide the answer.
Curiously, it will be this latter pro-
gramme (presumably after the drilling of
the half-mile flanks, of which No. 7 is
the third, are completed) that could put
a speculative eminent back into the
Moonie field and, of course, AOG.
For a “dry” hole on the Moonie struc-
ture —even a wild cat some distance away
—will bring out the weak holders of
AOG with quite a rush. Continuation
of “wet” holes will provide considerably
less demand for the scrip than they
would if the strike is made on a different
structure.
It is all very difficult for the lay invest-
ors who, by the way, make up the bulk
of AOG’s share register.
The happiest situation, of course,
would be the success of a testing pro-
gramme at Cabawin, to the north of
Moonie. It was at Cabawin that the
area showed its best signs prior to
Moonie, when AOG-Union-Kern produc-
ed flow oil in 1961.
Everything cannot be done at once,
and it may be several years before the
Cabawin district is exhaustively examin-
ed.


STOCK OPTIONS
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
11th Floor, Pearl Assurance Building
151 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
Phone: 67-8011
BRANCH OFFICES
Sydney: 383 George Street, 29-7865
Adelaide: 61 Gawler Place, 8-7407
Brisbane: 334 Queen Street. 31-1621.
Canberra: Maitland House. Hobart
Place. 4-3334
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
All Offices: “Options”
Write or Phone for Free Brochure
and Current Price Schedule.
FOR CALL OPTIONS
CALL STOCK OPTIONS
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
T ast week’s tirade (continued this
week) against Ready Mixed Con-
crete does not mean that I have given
up buying and selling shares altogether.
Quite the contrary, although it’s needed
something approaching Churchillian
courage to persevere the way the market's
been lately.
But perhaps things are finally going to
take a turn for the better following the
green light which Mr C. York Syme
waved at BHPs annual meeting last
Friday. While the tone of Mr Syme’s
speech was restrained, the import of it
was obvious. His remarks should remove
the last vestiges of doubt that anyone
could possibly have about the rate and
extent of economic recovery.
What is good for BHP must surely
be good for John Lysaght, too. And on
the share market John Lysaght still seems
to possess some of the glamor that has
deserted BHP over the past year. Be-
sides, my Newcastle intelligence service
tells me that the company is booming.
With the interim report (John Lysaght’s
trading year ends in December) due with-
in the next week or two, I added another
100 shares to the 100 I bought in July.
The only difference was I got these at
61s. compared with 645. for the first 100.
My other recent purchases have been
in the below par department 1000
ANI at 4s. and 400 Waugh and Joseph-
son at 14s. 6d. Both companies have, on
their own word, been in a lot of trouble
over the past year. But both should now
be on the mend again.
ANI has widely diversified engineer-
ing and motor distributing interests to
which it has recently added the Aus-
tralia-wide distributorship for Comalco
aluminium. Directors admitted to a loss
for the first half of 1961-62 but the grape-
vine reports a strong recovery since.
Waugh and Josephson distributes
Caterpillar tractors and other earthmoving
equipment. More recently it has gone
into the power boat business in quite a
big way. W. and J. will pobably turn
in a pretty hefty loss for the past year
but the company is a strong one and it
should recover again quite quickly. The
question was whether to buy last week
when the price got down as low as 14s.
or wait until the result is announced.
Being in a daring—or was it desperate—
mood, I bought last week.
These three purchases, plus the £279
still owing on my 100 AOG, brought
my indebtedness up to almost £llOO. This
called for some stern decisions.
Obviously Ready Mixed had first claim
in considering what to sell. I despatched
400 down the drain at 135., thereby in-
curring my largest individual loss (£99)
since this diary was begun three years
ago. I’m still holding 100 Ready Mixed
as my admission ticket to the annual
meeting.
It is to be hoped that at this meeting
the directors will attempt to explain the
extraordinary contradiction that appears
to exist between the published statements
of last September and last March and the
profit figure declared two weeks ago. By
so far remaining silent (and this was
written last Monday), the directors have
left themselves open to serious question-
ing. Nor does it seem an exaggera-
tion to say that their conduct, unless
justified, must throw some doubt on the
good faith of almost all company
directorates.
(Lest it be thought that my remarks
about Ready Mixed have been directed
specifically at the former chairman and
managing director Mr S. E. A. Stirling, I
feel it only fair to list the names of the
other directors at the relevant time. They
are: — Mrs A. Richards and Messrs. J. G.
Palmer, E. F. Griffin, J. H. Stephenson,
R. F. Street and L. J. O’Neill.)
Having dropped £99 on Ready Mixed,
I decided to make a clean breast of my
MLC’s at the same time. This meant
losing another £63.
You might remember that these MLC
shares were bought in April—obviously a
fateful month, because that was when I
bought RMC. MLC shares were then
listed on the unlisted list (if you get what
I mean). At one stage before the 3-for-l
split I could have made the best part
of £lOO because the price rose from £l9
10s. to £24, equal to £8 now. But since
the split and official listing they have
rarely brought more than £6.
The MLC doubtless has a very good
future, judging by the number of brokers
who have recommended the shares in
circulars. One broker has even been pre-
sumptuous enough to forecast the
MLC’s dividends to the exact penny for
every year from now until 1975! Now
nobody denies that the MLC’s divi-
dends are not going to grow but to make
such a precise projection for 13 years
ahead is nothing short of absurd.
Still this comes from the same broker
who, last April, was so bold as to put a
value of 765. 9d. on AOG shares. In
view of the fact that they have sold at
some 20s. below that figure for the past
three months, you’d think this broker
would be recommending nothing else but
AOG.
SOLD
400 Ready Mixed at 13s £265
100 MLC at £6 £592
BROUGHT
100 John Lysaght at 61s. £3lO
1000 ANI at 4s. £209
400 Waugh & Josephson at
14s. 6d. £296
Even with the sale of 400 Ready
Mixed and 100 M.L.C., 1 still owed my
broker £246. And I’m anxious to buy
some Western Mining again this week.
Also some Shipping Newspapers. But for
the present the portfolio is:—
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
600 O’Donnell Griffin 28/8/61 13/6 18/6
2,000 United Motels 20/11/61 3/9 4/2
400 Auto and General
Finance _ 8/2, 62 19/9 26/6
800 Goodwins 21/3 62 5/9 6/6
100 Ready Mixed 6/4 62 17/9 12/-
400 Malleys 3 5/62 20/9 23/6
1,000 Hanimex 23 5'62 4/11 6/1
300 National Consol. 30/5 62 26/1 26/-
300 Marcus Clark notes 22 6/62 27/6 30/-
100 James Hardie 29/6 '62 98/- 97/6
200 John Lysaght 18/7 62 64/- 59/9
400 Courtaulds 24/7/62 11 9 10/3
100 CSR 1/8 61 49/- 47/-
400 AWA 10/8 62 20/- 19 6
500 Steggles 16 8/62 8/2 9/3
500 R. W. Miller 21/8 62 17/3 17/1
1,000 Peter Lloyd 24/8 62 5/9 6/2
100 AOG 27/8/62 55 6 55/-
1,000 ANI 14/9/62 4/- 4/-
400 Waugh &
Josephson 11/9 62 14/6 14/6
ST. PETER'S COLLEGE
ADELAIDE, S.A.
Assistant Master required for the
Preparatory School from February,
1963, to teach all primary subjects
to a Grade 5 or Grade 6 form and
assist with other activities.
Salary according to qualifications
and experience. The salary scale is
similar to that of the South Australian
Education Department.
Further particulars are available
from the Headmaster, St. Peter’s
College, S.A., to whom applications
should also be made.
Applications should include a
recent photograph and a full state-
ment of qualifications, experience and
personal data.


One to Buy
RISE OF AUSTRALIAN BACON LTD
A ustralians have been bringing home
the bacon with increasing regularity
and as a result companies like Mayfair
Hams Ltd and Huttons Ltd have grown
considerably in market stature over the
last five years or so.
Of similiar appeal is the smaller and
therefore less well-known company, Aus-
tralian Bacon Ltd, headquartered in
Dandenong, out of Melbourne. It trades
under the appropriate and sales-appealing
name of “Dandy” hams and bacon.
The company was formed in 1955 as
Victorian Bacon Ltd to take over the
assets of the Gippsland Co-operative
Bacon Curing Co. Ltd at Dandenong. The
bacon-curing and smallgoods manufac-
turing company of J. Lloyd and Sons Pty
was taken over in 1955-56.
Late in 1957 the company was listed
on the Melbourne Stock Exchange follow-
ing the issue to the public of 200,000
10s. shares at par.
The company acquired a more national
image in 1958 on a merger with Queens-
land Co-operative Bacon Association Ltd,
so Victorian Bacon Ltd became Austra-
lian Bacon Ltd. The Queensland com-
pany had a large factory at Murarrie
in Brisbane on a freehold property of
70 acres.
In the same year Australian Bacon
joined with Ballarat Products Ltd to
form Geo. Farmer Pty with a bacon
and smallgoods factory in Ballarat. This
became a wholly-owned subsidiary dur-
ing 1960-61.
The next move was to Sydney in 1959-
60 via a takeover of Barnes Bacon Pty
of Homebush and Cambridge Delicacies
of Redfern. By then the group’s main
products were bacon, ham, meatmeal for
stock food, lard and tallow.
By these acquisitions, issued ordinary
capital has swelled from £200,000 in
1958 to £438,603 in the latest accounts
for the year to April 30, 1962. Share
premiums of £77,530 have been col-
lected, and total shareholders’ funds
have roughly doubled to £1,097,725, in-
cluding preference capital of £178,167.
This gives a very solid asset backing of
18s. 3d. per 10s. ordinary share.
The only call for funds has been the
issue of approximately £250,000 in
7 p.c. 10s. notes which convert to ordin-
ary shares at par en April 30, 1966.
Since 1958 group profits have pro-
gressed annually from £41,478 to
£88,044, and the 1962 result was a 12
p.c. improvement on 1961. The number
of pigs handled in 1961-62 was 144,413
(previous year 106,100), and was a
record quantity. Sales shot up from
£4,150,000 to £4,955,000.
In 1960-61 despite a spurt in earning
rate from 12.7 to 18.2 p.c. on highei
average capital the directors reduced
dividend from 10 to 8 p.c. as a pre-
caution against the possible adverse effect
of the swine fever outbreak in NSW.
Directors are now less apprehensive, and
the 10 p.c. dividend was restored in
1961-62.
Not only did profit advance strongly
in 1961-62 (from £70,708 to £88,044)
but so did provisions before arriving at
these figures. Depreciation charge was
stepped up from £48,446 to £65,485,
and tax from £30,834 to £51,589.
Directors considered results were materi-
ally affected in 1961-62 by writing off
£28,162 in bad debts. This item should
not be nearly so damaging to profits as
business conditions brighten.
On an earning rate of 18.7 p.c. Aus-
tralian Bacon shares (quoted in Mel-
bourne and Brisbane) selling at about
18s. 6d. give an earnings yield of 10.1
p.c. and an income return of 5.4 p.c.
The esteem in which Huttons and
Mayfair are now held by the stock mar-
ket could also apply to Australian Bacon
if it continues to develop on sound and
progressive lines, and the shares (or the
convertible notes) would be an interest-
ing purchase for income purposes with
some claims to capital growth over the
medium term.
CROSS CURRENTS IN SAVINGS
1961-62 a year of exceptionally
high saving or not? Look'ng at the
record jumps over the year in deposits
per operative savings bank account from
£173.9 to £180.7 (after a drop the
previous year) and in the savings bank
deposits per head of population from
£150.1 to £162.1, it would seem so.
The record rise of 10.1 p.c. in savings
banks deposits also suggests that it was,
whereas the modest increase from £360
to £366 million in personal savings (that
is excluding assurance funds—up from
£l5O to .167 million—and undistri-
buted profits—down from £214 to
£lB6 million) shown in the National
income accounts seems to belie this con-
clusion.
The increase in savings bank deposits
certainly seems to owe something to
switching from interest-bearing accounts
in the trading banks, particularly in the
cases of the E. S. & A., the National and
the Commercial Bank of Australia, all
of which launched themselves into the
savings bank field in 1961-62.
The deposits of the private trading
banks increased at a much faster rate
than those of the Commonwealth
Savings Bank and the State savings
banks.
Between this July and July, 1961,
private trading banks’ deposits rose from
£302.2 to £383.4 million, whereas
the Commonwealth Savings Bank’s in-
creased only from £826.8 to £868.8
million and the State savings banks from
£472.2 to £474.5 million. This still
leaves the Commonwealth Savings Bank
way ahead, but the private savings banks
are fast closing the gap with the State
savings banks which are in second place.
Another reading of the figures would
be that the savings banks came into
their own again after the public’s plunge
into high coupon deposits in preceding
years. (Though no separate figures are
issued for deposits, total capital raised
on debentures, registered notes and
deposits fell sharply in 1961-62).
Against this, undoubtedly a large
amount of savings went towards reducing
hire purchase commitments. Total HP
outstandings dropped from £397.3 to
£371.0 million. (They have since risen
to £375 million).
As usual the lion’s share of new assets
acquired by the savings banks were
Commonwealth, State, local and semi-
government loans. Housing got less than
10 p.c.
In the latter connection the State
Governments can hardly relish the fact
that deposits in State savings banks
increased at a much slower rate than
either the private savings bank or the
Commonwealth Savings Bank.
They cannot hope to do as much as
they would like from this source in
supplementing Federal aid for housing
(increased very little in the Budget)
unless the idea of reducing the statutory
proportion of savings bank deposits
which must go into Government and
semi-government loans is implemented.
SAVINGS BANK DEPOSITS
Deposits Deposits
per per head
Total % operative of
£ Increase account population
million on year £ £
June, 1958 1,296 + 5.6 164.4 131.8
„ 1959 1,391 + 7.3 168.0 138.4
„ 1960 1,522 + 9.4 175.3 148.2
1961 1,577 + 3.6 173.9 150.1
„ 1962 1,734 +lO.l 180.7 162.1
July, 1962 1,756 +10.2 181.4 164.7
SAVINGS BANK ASSETS: JULY, 1962
Increase
on year %
£ % £ Increase
million Total million on year
Comm &
State Loans 843.6 45.7 +55.1 + 7.1
Local &
Semi-Gov. Loans 359.5 19.5 +46.2 +14.7
Housing Loans 348.3 18.9 +34.1 + 9.8
Other Assets (a) 292.1 15.9 +34.3 +13.3
TOTAL 1,843.5 100.0 +169.7 +lO.O
(a) Including deposits with reserve bank £154.2
million.


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
REPCO LTD
EXPORTS COUNTERACT LOCAL SLACK
Tn celebrating the company’s silver anni-
versary, directors of Repco Ltd passed
on an extra copper per share to share-
holders. The bonus dividend of If p.c.
was additional to the usual 10 p.c. rate.
The company’s growth since 1938 can
be measured by the then profit of
£42,558 (after tax at 3s. in the £) re-
presenting 15.5 p.c. on paid capital of
£275,000, and the latest profit of
£1,430,042 (after tax at Bs. in the £)
representing 18.8 p.c. on paid capita' of
£7,611,121.
The group originally had four com-
panies with total assets of £354,600 and
350 employees. Today it has 30 com-
panies, partnerships at home and abroad
in seven companies, total assets of
£18,862,047 and 6000 employees.
Its business is the manufacture of
automotive parts, garage equipment and
precisions tools, and automotive engin-
eering.
As few motor vehicles were manufac-
tured in Australia before 1950, there was
a wide variety of vehicles on our roads.
The high original outlay encouraged pro-
longation of life by services and repairs,
often done by relatively unskilled yet
expensive labour. Road and climatic
conditions were—and still are —a severe
test of design.
All these factors, plus Australia’s iso-
lation from manufacturing companies,
compelled Repco from its earliest days,
to make a range of parts far greater
than other manufacturers in similar parts
of the world, and to bring an original
approach to their design.
Although Australia is one of the most
highly motorised countries in the world,
the market is essentially limited, and hav-
ing proved itself in the domestic market,
Repco confidently moved into inter-
national markets.
The natural export market in New
Zealand was exploited even in the early
thirties, but directors could hardly have
envisaged that the company could one
day storm the ramparts of USA, UK,
Europe and Japan with Repco replace-
ment parts and service equipment.
An export market has been developed
conscientiously since 1950 when the local
demands were better satisfied. Repco
now claims exports to 63 countries, and
this geopraphical expansion was a most
useful supplement in the recent Aus-
tralian recession. The chairman paid
tribute to the Commonwealth Govern-
ment’s export incentive scheme in his
lengthy review for shareholders in respect
of 1961-62 acticities.
The associated companies supply origi-
nal equipment for the assembly of new
motor vehicles. Kirkstall-Repco Pty Ltd
(owned with Kirkstall Forge Engineering
Ltd of UK), making front axles and
forgings, had a difficult time during the
1961 calendar year, and although profit-
able in the June, 1962, quarter, was
unable to recoup earlier losses.
The two companies owned jointly with
Engineering Components Ltd which make
gaskets—Payen, Byrne and Blackford
Pty and Associated Power Seals Pty—
also had trading difficulties, but were
able to remit dividends to the partner
companies.
Super Seals Pty Ltd (half owned by
Repco with two UK firms) had a very
successful year, and also remitted a
dividend. Directors were particularly
pleased with the steady growth of the
industrial business. Extra warehouse
space would be available by Christmas.
The joint venture with Associated
Engineering Ltd of UK in NZ continued
to make excellent progress, and profits
were very satisfactory although the new
projects of engine valves and bearings
are not yet in full production.
Establishment of Bimetal Bearings Ltd
(25 p.c. owned by Repco) which will
make engine bearings under licence from
Clevite Corp. of USA, in Madras, India,
has taken longer than expected. The
factory is complete, and plant now being
installed. Repco has made its first capital
contribution, and the company expects to
be producing by January, 1963.
Another company Indiapistons-Repco
Ltd (49 p.c. owned ' y Repco) has been
incorporated to make flywheel ring gears
in Madras also.
Two new subsidiaries Repco machine
Tool Co. Pty and Repco Finance Co.
Pty, which began operations in 1961-62,
incurred losses.
The Commonwealth Government’s
measures to control the booming motor
industry in November, 1961, by increas-
ing sales tax and restricting credit gener-
ally, had greatest impact in 1960-61.
Vehicle manufacturers heavily cut their
orders for components from Repco, as
did the automotive repair trade generally
and the dealers in replacement parts be-
cause of financial pressure and a general
absence of confidence.
Repco’s profit, which had retreated
from £1,201,376 to £1,188,533 in the
year to June 30, 1961, recovered latterly
to £1,430,042, a record figure. This
was attributed to restoration of original
equipment contract schedules, the con-
tinued strength of the “after” market,
and to the success of the drive for ex-
ports.
The heavier allocations to depreciation
and taxation are a corollary of the con-
vincing profit improvement.
Since a share split in 1957-58, Repco
shareholders have participated in a one-
for-two bonus the same year, and a three-
for-ten issue at 50 p.c. premium in
1960-61. The company's capital has
been swelled also by share considerations
for takeovers. But until this year’s
birthday bonus dividend, they were re-
ceiving an unexciting 10 p.c. dividend
which was equivalent to the 15 p.c. that
prevailed before the 1957-58 bonus.
In today’s uncertain market 14s. sd.
for the Repco ss. shares (yielding 3.5
p.c.) is a very solid price, an expression
of investors’ approval of the company’s
performance in overcoming local ob-
stacles and getting out to sell its goods
abroad.
As the price range this year has been
from 12s. sd. to 14s. 6d., Repco is no
particular bargain right now, but they
should nevertheless prove sound holding.
The company’s pursuit of export mar-
kets should allow larger-scale production
with resultant improvement in costs, even
if the goods exported carry a lower profit
margin than production for the domestic
market.
This consideration makes Repco’s pros-
pects perhaps more attractive than at
any time in the last two years.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARIES £'ooo
1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 4529 4783 8254 9757 9385
Less current liabilities 2564 2146 4815 3588 3106
Working capital .... 1965 2637 3439 6169 6279
Investments 925 925 1040 1082 1207
Fixed assets 3145 3377 5607 7402 7532
Goodwill 465 465 643 687 689
Total capital .... 6500 7404 10729 15340 15757
Represented by:
Loan capital 700 1028 2456 2292
Minority interest .... - 48
Ordinary capital .... 4699 4699 5774 7578 7611
Reserves 1801 2005 3879 5306 5854
6500 7404 10729 15340 15757
Depreciation 286 300 439 595 630
Taxation 378 427 743 889 935
Net earnings 631 673 1201 1189 1430
Dividend 470 470 574 669 885
Surplus 161 203 627 520 545
Earning rate p.c 13.4 14.3 20.0 17.8 18.8
Dividend rate p.c 10 10 10 10 11|
Dividend yield p.c. (a) 4.4 3.5 3.6 4.4
High Price (b) 16/1 12/1 15/6 14/7 14/
Low Price (b) 8/11 9/3 11/8 10/4 9/6
(a) End of September, month accounts presented
(b) Previous calendar year.


CONSOLIDATED MOTELS
IMMEDIATE FUTURE NOT EASY
Tn the swift thrust and parry of a take-
over battle, directors will often reveal
hidden resources or promise shareholders
benefits which in more thoughtful
moments they would probably defer. In
the case of Consolidated Motels, in its
battle with Cambridge Credit Corpora-
tion, directors appear to have been
hustled into paying a dividend which,
although it swung the day, could more
wisely have been used to reduce outside
indebtedness.
Consolidated floated at the height of
the motel boom in late 1960 to operate
five motels. They were located at Graf-
ton, Mittagong, Newcastle, Port Mac-
quarie and Mildura.
Later a sixth, in an outer Sydney
suburb, was added.
The five original motels were acquired
by issues of shares, 8 p.c. convert-
ible debentures and cash payments.
Shares and convertible debentures were
issued to the public and when the shares
were listed early in 1961 the company’s
paid up capital was £200,000 all in ss.
shares. The ss. debentures may be re-
deemed for cash or are convertible at
par into ordinary shares in September
next year.
Shares issued in the takeover of the
motel at Sylvania Heights lifted capital
to £225,000.
Despite rosy estimates of 15.1 p.c.
earnings on capital given in the pros-
pectus, the result fell far short of this
in 1961. Trading covered an average of
eight months for the financial year. Pro-
fit was £4090, equal to roughly 24- p.c.
on capital on an annual basis.
Occupancy rate was high and direc-
tors hoped to pay an interim in 1961-
62. However, during May they again
deferred the payment, despite a “satis-
factory” result.
This caused resentment among the
largest shareholders —the vendors of the
motels—and within six weeks an offer
was received from Cambridge Credit
Corporation, a soundly managed finance
group.
When making the offer Cambridge re-
vealed it already had a large number of
acceptances from both debenture and
shareholders. These, it is understood,
were four of the six original vendors.
But the offer, two Cambridge for three
Consolidated, did not raise much en-
thusiasm, for on market values it repre-
sented only money back for original
shareholders. To clinch the rejection,
Consolidated directors declared a final
dividend of 8 p.c. for the year.
When the accounts were released it
showed that the dividend absorbs all but
£1628 of the profit, leaving little to
go to reserves.
Directors claim, perhaps rightly, thai
they have established themselves in a
period of financial stringency, suggesting
that in easier times, the result would
have been better. But they are not yet
out of the woods.
Within 12 months they have to find
sufficient to redeem the £150,000 in
convertible debentures or make the earn-
ing rate sufficiently attractive to get a
large-scale conversion. But this would
not solve their problems, for a large-scale
conversion means that the company must
work that much harder for the Taxation
Commissioner.
Also, £lO,OOO must be found or con-
version to a longer term must be ar-
ranged for £lO,OOO of mortgage loans
due for repayment this year.
Outside borrowings, used to finance
extensions, during the year were heavy
and saw a rise from £9600 to £84,754.
The use of suppliers’ credit was also evi-
denced by the lift in trade creditors from
£37.522 to £55,063.
The immediate future does not appear
easy. Directors are faced with a group
of dissatisfied shareholders, large interest
commitments and repayments, and the
need to make the earning rate more at-
tractive before conversion of the pub-
licly held debentures falls due.
At 4s. 2d. for the shares there appears
only a moderate scope for improvement.
Earnings yield is 10.4 p.c. and dividend
yield is 9.6 p.c. The only time the shares
have sold above par is just after first
listing in 1961 and under pressure from
Cambridge. At this price a “wait-and-
see” attitude is advised.
ACCOUNT SUMMARIES £MOO
June 30 1961 1962
Current assets 7 14
Less current liabilities 63 98
—56 —B4
Fixed assets 401 506
Goodwill 53 53
398 475
Represented by—
Loan capital 169 244
Ordinary capital 225 225
Reserves 4 6
398 475
Depreciation 1 3
Taxation 3 12
Net profit 4 20
Ord. dividends -
Surplus 4 2
Earning p.c 3.7
Dividend p.c 8
Dividend yield (a) 96
High price 5/3 67-
Low price 3/9 3/4
(a) End of August when accounts presented.
JOHNS AND WAYGOOD
INVESTORS PROCEED WITH CAUTION
Confidence in the shares of Johns
and Waygood Holdings Ltd was
severely shattered a couple of months
ago with the collapse of Melbourne’s
King Street Bridge, for which the com-
pany supplied the steelwork.
Sellers knocked 10s. off the price, and
the shares changed hands at 435. 3d.
Since then they have rallied to 465. 6d.,
and the current price of 455. 6d. offers
a yield of 4.4 p.c. to stout-hearted
buyers.
Incidentally, before faults were dis-
covered in the bridge’s construction,
Johns and Waygood had taken out a
writ against the Country Roads Board
and Utah Australia Ltd claiming
£405,000 for work allegedly done in
excess of original specifications.
The accounts for the year ended June
30, 1962, present the usual solid struc-
ture. Profits were healthier, although
earning rate suffered. But shareholders
will continue to treat the shares with
reserve.
Profit for the year before taxation
advanced 13 p.c. from £838,671 to
£950,953, but after providing £88,482
extra for taxation at £448,327, the net
result was only 5 p.c. higher at
£502,626 compared with the previous
£478,826.
The business was founded 104 years
ago in Melbourne, and was originally
concerned with the installation and
maintenance of elevators. Over the years
it participated in developmental and
construction work, and established a
plant for the fabrication of structural
steel.
It is now one of the largest engineering
firms in Australia, specialising in
elevators, escalators, structural steelwork,
radio and TV masts, transmission towers,
wool presses, machine tools, cranes,
laundry machinery, switch gear, trans-
formers, safes and strongroom doors,
open grid flooring, and galvanizing.
Governmental and semi - governmental
authorities are supplied as well as
industry.
The group consists of Johns and Way-
good Ltd, Roy Burton and Co. Pty Ltd,
Johnsway Galvanising Co. Pty Ltd,
Landringham Estates Pty Ltd, Trans-
mission Lines Pty Ltd, Mann and
Gamble Pty Ltd, all incorporated in
Victoria; Standard-Waygood Ltd, Johns
and Waygood Lifts Ltd and Edmunds
Moir and Co. Pty Ltd incorporated in
NSW, Torwood Holdings Ltd, Torwood
Down and Co. Ltd, Torwood Johns and
Waygood of S.A. Ltd incorporated in
G. M. Industrial Electrics Ltd, Standard
Waygood of S. A. Ltd incorporated in


South Australia, and Torwood Down
W.A. Pty Ltd incorporated in Western
Australia.
The main plant is at Sandringham
(Vic.) occupying 10 acres and includes
a structural steel section and galvanising
works. The lift business is located at
South Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney and
Newcastle. The industrial laundry
machinery is made in Sydney and Mel-
bourne. There are structural steel works
at Laurel Park near Adelaide, and in
Hobart. The main NSW subsidiary
makes the switch gear, transformers and
motors at Villawood.
The association with Torwood, Down
and Co. Ltd of Adelaide in steel
fabricating began in 1953-54 and that
company was completely bought out in
December, 1959. Also in late 1959, a
half-interest was acquired from Aus-
tralian Consolidated Industries Ltd in
Luke Muras Ltd, at a price said to be
about half that originally paid by ACL
During 1960-61 this investment was
increased by £200,000, and a loan of
£200,000 was made to Luke Muras,
which has constructional engineering
works at Alexandria, NSW.
Torwood Johns Pty Ltd was formed
during 1961-62 to carry out a contract
at Kwinana. It is owned equally by
Johns and Waygood and the Pittsburgh-
Des Moines Steel Co. of USA.
A new company was formed in June
last with John Tann Ltd of UK,
named John Tann (Aust.) Pty Ltd, to
make safe and strongroom equipment in
Adelaide. Johns and Waygood sub-
scribed 25i p.c. of the share capital.
Paid capital was increased during the
year under review by £334,048 to
£3,534,947 by the issue of 43,625 20s.
shares at a premium of over 295. 6d. a
share, to acquire Gibb and Miller Ltd
and G. M. Industrial Electrics Ltd both
of SA, and by calling up the final 10s.
on the 1961 one-for-five par issue.
Earlier share issues were made at par
in April, 1956 (one-for-three) and April,
1954 (one-for-four). A bonus issue was
also made in 1954 in the ratio of one-
for-four from asset revaluations.
Loan capital is limited to £600,000
in 7i p.c. unsecured notes reducible
in 1980, and £283,980 in secured loans.
Freehold land and buildings appear
in the latest accounts at £1,957,133, of
which £1,280,361 is shown at cost, the
balance at valuations made from 1954
to 1958.
Investment in plant, machinery, etc.
during the year was increased by
£372,246. Closing stocks were £391,719
higher at £2,795,783 than the opening
figure.
The company has had an excellent
record of profits and continuous divi-
dends since at least 1930. Since the
holding company was formed in 1957,
10 p.c. dividends have been the rule, and
tangible asset backing has built up from
225. Bd. per 20s. share to 30s. 6d.
Johns and Wavgood has grown in
market stature as well as in physical size
over that period, only marred by the
King Street Bridge debacle. Until the
company’s liability, if any, is determined,
clouds of doubt still overshadow the
shares.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARIES £’ooo
1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 2453 2537 3689 4090 4171
773 929 1979 2084 1836
Working capital 1680 1608 1710 20C6 2335
Fixed assets 1438 1430 2337 2767 2995
Investments 289 339 591 970 946
Intangibles 19 28 21
3426 3405 4659 5743 6276
Represented by:
Loan capital 308 307 307 899 884
Minority interests 9
Ordinary capital 2473 2473 2904 3201 3535
Reserves 636 625 1448 1643 1857
3426 3405 4659 5743 6276
Depreciation 70 64 107 140 183
Taxation 251 234 258 360 448
Net earnings 406 392 455 479 503
Dividends 247 247 272 301 352
Surplus 159 145 183 178 151
Earning p.c. 16.5 15.9 16.9 16.0 14.3
Dividend p.c. 10 10 10 10 10
Dividend yield (a) 3.8 4.1 4.4
High (b) 57/6 53/6 65/- 60 3 50/-
Low (b) 44/11 46/3 52/6 39/9 39/3
(a) End of September, month accounts pre-
sented.
(b) Previous calendar year.
NATIONAL INSURANCE OF N.Z.
GROWTH-AND OTHER PROSPECTS
Although National Insurance Co. of
New Zealand Ltd, the smallest of
the three New Zealand-owned insurance
companies, has for many years been a
first-class growth stock, investors have
recently marked up the 10s. shares for
three reasons—the remaining liability on
the shares was wiped out by last year’s
one-for-three bonus issue; premium in-
come has risen rapidly and there is a
good chance of one of the big English
insurance companies making a takeover
bid for the Dunedin company.
Like the South British Insurance Co.
Ltd and the New Zealand Insurance Co.
Ltd, it distributes only its investment
income. But it differs from the other
two New Zealand companies, whose in-
vestment income nowadays exceeds their
underwriting profit, in that it earns al-
most twice as much from insurance as
from investments.
It could be argued that this reduces
the amount available for dividends and
makes National Insurance rather vulner-
able to underwriting fluctuations. On
the other hand, it assures that reserves
are added to at a very high rate, thus
enlarging the possibility of bonus issues,
while at the same time investment in-
come is growing sufficiently to maintain
a good rate of dividend.
Growth in capital benefits and divi-
dend income has accelerated in recent
years. Since 1916, capital has risen, all
through bonus issues, from £lOO,OOO to
£1 million, while dividend income in
the same period rose fourfold. But from
1953 to 1962, capital increased from
£350,000 to £1 million, while dividend
income doubled, presuming that this
year’s rate will be 10 p.c.
After last December’s one-for-three
bonus issue, a steady 3i p.c. interim was
paid in May on the higher capital. This
would give the shares, currently priced
around 31s. 6d. N.Z., a yield of 3.1 p.c.
The last bonus issue eliminated the 2s.
6d. liability per share and was made fol-
lowing the Standard Insurance debacle,
which brought National shareholders
other benefits as well. For in April last
year, National took over Standard’s
goodwill, which should considerably in-
crease underwriting profit.
In fact, a substantial part of the £ 1.3
million rise in premium income in the
year to September 30, 1961, was a direct
result of this deal.
Expenses that year were increased by
some duplication of National and Stan-
dard branches, which have now been
fully merged. Nevertheless, expenses to
premium income ratio rose only from 23
p.c. to 23.5 p.c., compared with 26.1 p.c.
for South British and 24.7 p.c. for New
Zealand Insurance.
The losses to premiums ratio of 62.8
p.c. (previous year 64.7 p.c.) also com-
pared favorably.
This year should show a further in-
crease in premium income, with a cor-
responding increase in underwriting pro-
fit. However, a further payment will
have to be made for Standard goodwill,
as this deal, consideration for which was
not disclosed, was not finalised last year.
Underwriting profit should be en-
hanced by the company’s earnings as sole
New Zealand agent for the CML Fire
and General Insurance Co. Ltd and of
the newly-established Employers’ Lia-
bility Assurance Corporation Ltd, which
did well in its first months of operation.
National Insurance is also a partner in
one of the five companies operating in
the official short term money market es-
tablished a few months ago.
Following the December bonus issue,
disclosed reserves (excluding liberal pro-
visions) were £640,000, but with both
fixed assets and investment portfolio pro-
bably considerably understated, they
should actually be much higher.
The steady rise in earning rate on
average funds—from 9.4 p.c. in 1951 to
14.7 p.c. last year—is a most significant
indicator of the company’s growth.
There are above average prospects that
this growth, both through bonus issues
and higher dividends, will be maintained.


Company
Pai
Value
Last
Sale
1961
Prices —
7/9/62
14/9/62
Div
Rate
p.o
Div
Yielo
pc
Earn.
Rate
p.c.
Earn
Yield
P c
Amalgamated Chemicals
5/
14/3
17/10
17/10
12y 2
3.5
21.4
6
A.W.A. .. ..
5/
20/4%
19/6
19 9
14
3.6
22
5.6
Ampol
5/
11/4
11/3
11 3
14
6.3
19
8.5
A.R.C.
10/
46/3
48/6
50/
15
3
35.1
7
Associated Pulp
20,
29 3
29/
29 5
6
4.1
6.3
4.2
Aust. Chemicals
10/
30/4 y 2
23/6
18/
8%
4.8
8.4
4.7
A.C.I.
20/
72/6
60/6
59/
8-1/3
2.8
14.5
4.9
Aust Guarantee
5/
14/
13/7
13/9
15
5.5
19
7
Aust. Gypsum
5/
14,3
13/
13/
10
3.8
15.8
6.1
A.P.M.
20
25/3
23/
24/
8-1/3
6.8
11.9
9.9
Bank N.S.W
£20
£34
£41
£4iy s
9
4.3
12.2
5.8
Bitumen and Oil .
5/
24/
23/
22/6
17 y 2
3.9
32
5.7
Blue Metal Ind.
5/
22/7 y 2
20/8
19 TO
15
3.8
27.6
7.1
Bradford Cotton .
5/
7/6
6/6
6 9
10
7.4
6.2
4.6
British Tobacco
20/
25/
24 6
24/6
9
7.5
9.7
8
B.H.P
20/
69/
53/
51 9
6>A
2.4
13.7
7.4
Burns Philp
20/
91/
96/
95 9
10
2.1
18 6
3.8
C.fe.R.
20/
£59>/ 2 a
48/9
47/
9y 2
4
14.8
6.3
C.A.G.A
5/
113
10/2
9/10
10
5
12.4
6.3
C.I.G.
20/
£5
91/
89/
11
2.5
25 3
5.6
Commercial Union
5/
19/3
19/9
19/
6>/ 2
1.7
18.4
4.8
Concrete Ind
5
15 l'/ 2
12/9
12/2
10
4.1
16.6
6.8
Cox Bros
5/
7, 6
7/6
7 7
10
6.6
11.8
8.1
C.R. A. . , t
5/
15/9
15/6
12
3.9
Custom Credit
5/
13/
10/9
10 4
15
7.2
18.2
8.8
Cyclone
10/
26/
20/
20 3
10
4.9
17.7
8.7
Dalgety-N Z. Loan
25/
40/9
40/9
8
4.9
13.9
8.2
David Jones ..
5/
18 9
17/9
17 8
12 y 2
3.6
28.7
7.8
Drug Houses
20/
69/
66/9
67/
11'A
3.3
17.7
5.4
Dunlop Rubber
20/
35/
42/6
12/
10
4.8
19.8
9.4
Elder G. M. .. ,
10/
—
15/
15/3
8
5.3
Electronic “B”
10/
13/3
16/
If'/
12 %
7.6
Email .
5/
7 6
7/6
7/4
10
6.8
11
7.5
E.Z. ind. . .
10/
12, 11
12/5
12 6
10
8
12.4
10
Pelt and Textiles ..
G J. Coles
t » t T
5/
6/11
7/5
7/11
10
6.3
15 2
9.6
5/
13/6
13/
13/
11
4.2
15.1
5.8
H. C. Sleigh ..
5/
11/
10,7
10 7
12 Va
5.9
13.4
6.6
Henry Jones .
20/
80/
70 6
70/
10
2.8
28.6
8.2
H. G Palmer ..
5/
15/6
16/3
15/9
12%
3.9
33 4
10.6
Howard Smith „
20/
54/
46/
44/9
10
4.4
13.6
6
Humes
20/
70 6
76/
76 6
14
3.6
21.8
6.4
5/
13/4
10/2
10 6
11-2/3
7.9
20.6
9.8
I.C.I.A.N.Z.
• •
20/
38/
39/
39 6
7
3.4
9.7
4.2
J. Gadsden
10/
15/3
18/3
18/
8
4.4
10.4
5.7
Kandos Cement
5/
18 2
17 6
12%
35
13.5
3.8
Kelvinator
5/
18/3
19 6
19/3
15
3.8
28.6
7 4
Lend Lease
5/
20/
14/10
14 10
10
3.4
21.5
7.4
L. J. Hooker . .
• * t
5/
7/
3/8
3 6
1.1*
1.6
Mercantile Credits
. .
5/
8 8
9/5
9 5
12%.
5.3
14.9
8.8
McPhersons
20
47/
38 6
39/3
8-1/3
4.2
12.4
5.7
Minster
10/
62/
74/
72 /
20
2.7
40.4
Moulded Products ..
5/
13/2
14/6
14/6
14
4.8
17.8
6.1
Mt. Isa Mines
5/
71 6
66/6
61 6
25
2.0
35.6
2.9
Mutual Acceptance
5/
8/10
11/
10 6
15
7.1
22.5
10.7
Myer
5/ '
29/
29/
29/
16-2 3
2.9
28.3
5
National Consolidated
5/
27/
25 9
25/6
20
3.9
35.3
6.9
Olympic Irtduslnes
5/
7 7
11/
10 9
10
4.6
16.2
9
Peters (Vic. i
2/
8/6
7/10
7 10
15
3.8
21.4
5.4
Petrochemical
20/
26/
27 9
25 3
6
4.7
5.9
4.6
R.M. Concrete
5/
i7y 2
12/11
12/
12%
5.2
13
5.4
Reid Murray
5/
8 3
2/11
2/4 y a
—
9.4
20 3
Repco .. .. ,
5/
12 5
14/3
14 4
11-2/3
3.4
18.8
6.2
Rothmans
10/
87/6a
34/
34/
17%
5,1
33.1
9.7
Thiess
5/
13
10/6
910
12%
6.3
14.4
5.3
Tooth
20/
69/
68/6
67'
13%
4.1
15.9
4.5
Union Carbide
20/
80/
54/
60/6
10
3.3
8.4
2.7
Waltons
5/
13 8
14/7
14 6
12%
4.3
15.7
7.4
Wool worths
5/
15 4
14
13 11
12
4.3
15.4
5.5
Wormald
5/
11 10
11/9
11/4
10
4.3
13.1
5.7
W R Carpenter
* Estimated on last
a Before share split
half-year
5/
’s profit
30/
33/
31/8
15
2.3
35.1
5.8
SYDNEY
Banks
etc.
STOCK EXCHANGE
Other
Finance Pastoral Retailers
INDICES
Base All
Metals Ords.*
Industrials
December
22,
1961
.. 137.37
541.02
182.31
389.15
604.15
299.07
318.74
September
7,
1962
.. 159.24
551.57
176.26
364.10
53-6.48
287.37
300.35
September
10,
1962
.. 159.02
553.22
172.26
364.94
537.18
287.70
300.70
September
11.
1962
.. 159.34
552.72
174.18
361.87
527.73
286.98
300.30
September
12,
1962
.. 159.64
552.44
175.50
361.91
525.88
286.51
299.57
September
13.
1862
.. 159.07
552.38
176.52
359.09
488.06
283.73
295.98
September 14, 19-82 .. 159.23
♦Peak 348.46 September 16, 1960
552.21
177.19
357.87
507.44
283.75
296.19
MELBOURNE
STOCK
EXCHANGE
AVERAGE YIELD
ON 100 ORDINARY SHARES
50 Other Stocks-
-Random—,
—50 Leading
Stocks ,
Sample
Div. Yield Earn. Yield
Div. Yield Earn. Yield
December
22.
1961
4.26
6.13
5.30
7.46
September
7,
1962
4.51
6.46
5.18
2.23
September
10,
1962
4.51
6.46
5.18
2.23
September
11,
1362
4.52
6.49
5.18
1.86
September
12,
1362
4.53
6.51
5.18
1.85
September
13,
1962
4.55
6.52
5.15
1.84
September
14,
1962
4.56
6.53
5.18
1.87
LEADING SHARE PRICES
ALL THAT GLITTERS
IS NOT OIL
VLT aging a struggle between lassitude and
" deflationary tremors as the market
still is, no one would yet have believed
this a time to breed fantasies and mon-
sters. With all their nervous wayward-
ness, share dealings do continue to keep a
certain oblique connection with what is
actually happening to Australia at large.
The markets, as we say, have hitherto
remained singularly free of wilder decoys
throughout an unduly prolonged quiet
period. However, an odd apparition
arrived last week—not surprisingly in a
broker's feverish addition to his Septem-
ber review. The hopefully temporary
irresponsibility demands fairly full
quotation.
Denominated a “logical switch,” the
advice delineates a path for changing
from industrials to oil! “Here is an
opportunity to give ‘dead capital’ a chance
for recovery. There are a number of
industrials which have fallen badly from
grace over the past 12 to 18 months—
some of which it will take almost a
miracle to produce any chance of re-
covery.
“Even if some of these ‘crumbling
stocks’ survive, it will be a slow, hard,
monotonous uphill battle. A switch, then,
out of ‘dead capital’ and into Amalga-
mated Petroleum and Mid-Eastern at this
juncture, would seem a pretty logical
course of action.
“Put it this way—supposing you had
in cash a few hundred pounds with which
to speculate, would you put it into some
of those floundering industrials even at
current heavily marked down prices, or
would you put it into a promising oil
exploration company with concessions
adjacent to Moonie? Both are a spec—
but it's not hard to choose!”
Moonie No. 7 thrown in, and a chain
of Treasure Islands, would not make that
particular suggestion, and its hidden im-
plications, valid. Another voice also
speaks up for portfolio, non-speculative
status for AOG.
Not in this manner is a proper, bal-
anced investment attitude generated, par-
ticularly over these tricky times. Fortu-
nately the review under quotation also
sets out quite a happy summary of re-
cent favorable medium-term recommenda-
tions—largely industrials.
Investors are unlikely to succumb to
these extremes, though they are assur-
edly holding back from any fertile buying
pressure anywhere. BHP and Mount
Isa exhibited a corrective advance on
Monday and last week saw a few more of
our prime industrials gain on results.
The trend is not very positive. BHP
may soon establish further guidance.


MORONEY MAY COOL THE WHEAT
BOARD’S "HOT SEAT"
HThe choice of lifelong public servant
Jim Moroney for the £5,000-a-year
chairmanship of the Australian Wheat
Board is only a minor surprise. Moro-
ney’s name had been mentioned fre-
quently as a likely candidate for the post
(The Bulletin, May 26, 1962).
Jim Moroney, shrewd and forthright,
has been secretary of the Commonwealth
Department of Primary Industry since
1956, and was First Assistant Secretary
of its predecessor, the Department of
Commerce and Agriculture, from 1953-
56. He is now in Britain with Mr Men-
zies. He will be 64 in December and
would have been due to retire next year,
but his Wheat Board appointment is for
three years.
Moroney’s selection for the Wheat
Board chairmanship—one of the top jobs
in Australian primary industry and often
a stormy political appointment—is only
a surprise for two reasons. He had been
reported to be in poor health, and it was
imagined the Commonwealth Govern-
ment heavily involved in Common
Market problems—would want to retain
him in his present key post as long as
possible.
However his advice will still be avail-
able to the Government, and the Wheat
Board job is likely to be less demanding
physically than his present post. (His
predecessor as chairman was wheat mar-
keting authority Sir John Teasdale, who
died recently aged 81).
Born at Hamilton (a wool, not wheat,
centre) in Victoria’s Western District, and
educated at St Patrick’s College, Bal-
larat, Jim Moroney joined the Public
Service from school and has been con-
cerned with primary products and their
marketing ever since. He has headed
many marketing boards and is well-
known abroad, having led missions to
Britain and to the Food and Agriculture
Organisation of the United Nations in
Rome.
Few men are better versed in all as-
pects of Australian primary industry—
including the rough-and-tumble of inter-
organisational politics. In the past the
chairmanship of the Wheat Board has
often proved a “hot seat” for an incom-
ing chairman, but Jim Moroney is un-
likely to face much political opposition.
His appointment has been received
with mixed feelings by Australia’s wheat-
growers. The powerful Australian
Wheatgrowers’ Association, while ack-
nowledging his ability and predicting that
he will make a success of the job, is
slightly miffed because its candidate was
passed over. (The Federation took the
unusual step of recommending a non-
wheatgrower, the Wheat Board’s present
general manager, Chris Perrett, who is
due to retire in the next couple of
months).
The Federation claims that it is too
big a blow to the board to lose its chair-
man (Sir John Teasdale) and its general
manager in a few months.
Another section of wheatgrowers
which includes Victoria’s strong Wheat
and Woolgrowers’ Association feels
that a wheatgrower should have got the
job. The association probably had in
mind one of its top members, veteran
A. C. (Cliff) Everett, who has been
nearly 21 years on the board.
Jim Moroney is not very well known
in Melbourne, having spent most of his
career in Canberra. (He will have to
move to Melbourne when he takes up
the Wheat Board job on October 27).
But he is regarded as a good mixer, a
dextrous tactician in the often murky
field of wheat politics, and the possessor
of a keen, logical mind. He can, on occa-
sion, display a caustic wit, and should
have no trouble keeping the Wheat Board
in order.
He is not taking over at an easy time,
however. Apart from losing his general
manager almost immediately (the man
who has done most of the on-the-spot
negotiating with Communist China on
wheat sales), Moroney will become chair-
man at the start of what could be the
biggest wheat harvest in Australia’s
history. The wheat industry will be
watching him too—especially to see his
stand on the vexed question of credit
sales to Communist China, an issue
which split the old board.
The assumption is that he will bring
to the board the behind-the-scenes atti-
tude of the Commonwealth Government
(in the past the Government has refused
to take any part in the credit sales to
China ... it has said they are the board’s
business).
There appears little likelihood, how-
ever, that the board will—whatever Mor-
oney’s attitude cease credit sales to
China in the face of what could be a re-
cord 300 million bushel harvest.
But the new chairman’s views could
strongly influence the board’s final de-
cision on a long-term credit deal with
China something the Chinese have
been pressing for recently.
FIRMS COMBINE TO PROMOTE
MORE TEXTILE EXPORTS
\JLf ill American and Canadian textile
" buyers one day come to Australia
each year, as they now visit the textile
centres of Britain and the Continent?
This seemingly remote possibility could
become fact within three or four years,
according to the first president of the
Australia Wool Textiles Export Corpora-
tion (AWTEC), Mr. F. W. Gluth, of
Victoria.
AWTEC, formed by 31 leading firms
in the Australian wool textiles industry in
Melbourne this month, is a proprietary
company incorporated under the spon-
sorship of the Commonwealth Depart-
ment of Trade. Its main object is to pro-
mote export sales of Australian wool tex-
tiles. To that end its first president, Mr.
Gluth, has already left for North Ame-
rica on a combined market survey and
sales mission.
On the eve of his departure, Mr. Gluth
said: “A month or two ago many of the
firms now joined in AWTEC were fight-
ing like cats and dogs—our trade has
never been one for peaceful rivalry. But
today we are pulling together with
mutual confidence.
“North America now buys a mere
£160,000 worth of Australian woollen
textiles—out of a total import purchase
of £B6 million. We believe there is a
big market there for top quality Austra-
lian textiles and we intend to open it up.
“We envisage a ready acceptance of
Australian textiles in North America
within two or three years. We believe
we will be accepted as one of the regu-
lar buying centres of the world. We are
not anticipating instant success—after all
the U.S. market is one of the best-catered
for in the world. It will take hard work
to get results.”
Mr. Gluth is being followed to North
America by two other leading members
of AWTEC —all three have been made
available by their firms to benefit the
industry as a whole. The others are Mr.
H. P. Braddock and Mr. F. Moylan. Mr.
Gluth will concentrate on worsted piece-
goods, Mr. Braddock on blankets and
rugs and Mr. Moylan on woollen piece-
goods.
Initially AWTEC has five divisions
covering yarns, woollen piecegoods, \vor-
Continued col. 3, next page.


sted piecegoods, blankets and rugs, and
knitwear. Other divisions may send
missions to North America shortly.
AWT EC is making a start with North
America —“America has the money to
pay and ready acceptance in America
means acceptance throughout the world”,
Mr. Gluth says. Later AWTEC will en-
ter other export markets.
AWTEC's initial assault on the North
American market is costing £30,000 —-
to he met equally by the member firms
and the Department of Trade. The de-
partment is largely responsible for
AWTEC’s formation and is justifiably
delighted with its initial success.
The whole project is a direct result
of the department’s five-man wool textile
trade mission to North America last year
under the leadership of Sir Norman
Nock. The mission’s report was tabled
nine months ago and ever since wool
textile industry panels have been at work.
AWTEC does not intend to make the
mistake upon which previous wool textile
export promotions have foundered
an inability to control quality. “Firms
will not be admitted to the organisation
until their products have been thoroughly
screened —and we will take steps to make
sure only quality goods go abroad from
AWTEC firms,” Mr. Gluth said. “We
don’t want this venture ruined by fly-
by-nighters”.
MARKETING
THE CHANGING FUNCTIONS OF
ADVERTISING AGENCIES
A significant change has come over
the advertising agency business with-
in the last six or seven years. No longer
is it the job of the agency merely to
“sell” a product through the accepted
media of Press, radio and television; it
has, indeed, to “market” a product from
the production stage to the consumer's
household.
The whole process i ?w involves the
advertising agency in market research,
evaluation of a product and its likely
acceptance, close study of packaging and
labelling, and point-of-sale presentation.
This radical advance in the functions
of agencies has not met with the unani-
mous approval of members of the Aus-
tralian Association of Advertising Agen-
cies (the 4A’s), some of whom consider
that the original objects of the associa-
tion are in danger of being forgotten, es-
pecially on the score of remuneration.
One prominent agency man expressed the
view to The Bulletin that “this mudd-
ling with packaging, labelling and market
research” was becoming a tedious and
unremunerative business.
“This kind of thing is likely to get
out of hand”, he said, “and could under-
mine the very basis on which the
agencies’ business was founded. The only
really remunerative part of an agency’s
work is the commission received from the
various media, and dissipation of this
income upon extraneous services to
clients is not in the interests of members
of the 4A’s”.
It is a fact, however, that all these
extra services have growm world-wide
with the advance of marketing pro-
cedures. They started in America, spread
to the UK and Europe, and now every
agency of any high standing in the capi-
tal cities of the world is performing
them.
And, lending point to the situation in
Australia, the forthcoming 4A’s annual
convention at Canberra from October
22 to 24 will be highlighted by two ad-
dresses by Mr Walter Landor, of Walter
Landor and Associates, leading American
packaging designers. His subjects will be:
(a) “Package and Product Design the
New Force in Marketing”; and (b)
“Case Histories A Provocative Evalu-
ation of the US Product and Package
Design Programme”.
Mr Landor will discuss the problem
of combining the writer and the artist
to produce the l est result for print media,
and, secondly, combining the WTiter and
the producer to bring out the best result
in radio and TV presentation.
Mr Landor’s view is that a package
design, to be truly valid, must satisfy
more than the accepted basic needs
protection of product, shelf impact,
memorability, strong communication of
product and brand. It must, he says, con-
vey the essence of the contents in the
psychologically most effective manner.
It must promise pleasure the pleasure
of both using the contents, and the
pleasure of “having the package around”.
It must, in short, win the heart, not
merely catch the eye.
"The package”, says Mr Landor,
“should act like a friend instead of a sales-
man at the door. The battle for the con-
sumer’s heart is just beginning. Improv-
ing the visual aspect of home environ-
ment making the kitchen, the dining
table and the bath a more pleasant sight
through the availability of visually more
satisfying packaging should be ac-
cepted as a social responsibility by manu-
facturers and their designers.”
The convention will be attended bv
representatives of most advertising
agencies in Ausrtalia, as well as a number
of overseas people, including Mr Doug-
las Bain, International director of S. H.
Benson Ltd, who will speak on “Agency
Problems in Britain Today”.
DAIRYMEN PENALISED FOR
PENICILLIN IN MILK
TLhe Tasmanian Milk Board has im-
A posed penalties on three dairymen
whose milk was found to contain traces
of penicillin. They had their licences
suspended for three days.
The board's managing secretary, Mr
H. R. Blacklow, said that the penicillin-
tainted milk had been detected among
64 samples taken from Hobart domestic
suppliers. A second offence would prob-
ably mean permanent cancellation of the
suppliers’ licences, Mr Blacklow said.
The board's action followed the recent
warning by Dr D. Murnane, of
ICIANZ, to the annual conference
of the Australian Veterinary Association.
The widespread used of antibiotics, es-
pecially penicillin, by dairymen for the
treatment of mastitis in cows, had re-
sulted in the antibiotics’ appearance in
milk sold for human consumption, Dr
Murnane said. This endangered public
health, because the antibiotic caused al-
lergic reactions in persons sensitive to
the antibiotic concerned. Dr Murnane
further warned that persons not already
sensitive could be rendered so by getting
the antibiotic in milk.
In Victoria, a blue dye is mixed with
penicillin used for treatment of mastitis.
It shows up in the milk for about three
days alter the cows have been treated.
NEW MARKETING AND
CONSULTING VENTURE
jyjT John L. Kemp, of Taubmans
Industries Limited, has resigned to
establish his own marketing training and
consulting business.
Mr Kemp is the immediate past presi-
dent of the Australian Association of
National Advertisers. He has been with
the Taubmans Group for ten years as
advertising manager and group market-
ing manager.
RECORD WOOL, MEAT AND
MILK PRODUCTION IN VIC.
Victorian Department of Agricul-
ture says that record numbers of
sheep and beef and dairy cattle are graz-
ing on farms in Victoria. The high rate
of slaughterings following the dry
autumn have since eased and production
of wool, meat and milk could reach re-
cord figures this year.
Pig numbers, too. have increased
though only slightly as there were very
heavy slaughterings in the autumn.


Positions Vacant
Teachers for 1963
Cranbroolk School Sydney
Head of Mathematics' Department required
for first term. A good opportunity for
promising young man aged 30 to 35
years.
Master to teach French, to Leaving Certifi-
cate; required in second term; though if
available, applicant would be appointed
for first term.
Flat for married couple, also single residen-
tial accommodation available.
Reply in writing, stating age. qualifications
and experience, with copies of testimonials
to
Headmaster, Cranbrook School,
Bellevue Hill, SYDNEY.
'The Formation of the
D.L.F. in N.S.W."
Denis Strangman
Sydney University D.L.P. Society
Monograph (40 pages)
The most detailed and extensive
survey of the subject yet presented.
Price 2/6 (postage free)
P.O. Box 338,
Broadway, N.S.W.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: FRANS ENGLER, late of Julia Road,
Otoeron, N.S.W. TAKE NOTICE that SHEILA
MARY ENGLER has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2898 of 1962 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for
a period of not less than 2 years. If you wish
to ‘ defend you may file an , Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before the 19th day
of October, 1962, and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from Messrs. Peter
S. Utz & Company, Solicitors, 324 Pitt Street,
Sydney. C. A. 11. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES
JURISDICTION
TO: LUIS EANUS PALAU late of Innisfail,
Queensland. TAKE NOTICE that ELVIRA
BANUS VILLAGRASA has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1478 of 1962 on the grounds of
desertion and separation. If you wish to
defend vou may enter an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Build-
ing, Macauarie Street. Sydney,, on or before
the 26th day of October. 1962, and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
M c 's c "--s J A. M'-agher & DeCoek, Solicitors,
255-57 Castlereash Street. Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
No. 1215 of 1962
TO- NORMAND CHRISTIAN SPENCER McNAMEE,
late of Lidcombe, in the State of New South
Wales. TAKE NOTICE that JOAN MARGARET
BELL, formerly called JOAN MARGARET
McNAMEE has filed a petition for divorce
number 1215 of 1962 cn the grounds of desertion
AND TAKE NOTICE that if you wish to defend
you may file an answer in the Divorce Registry,
Mint Building, Macauarie Street, Sydney, on or
before the 19th day of October, 1962. A copy
of the petition may’ be obtained without charge
from Messrs. Sly and Russell. Solicitors, 16
Barrack Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS.
Registrar.
Positions Vacant
TEACHER
HEADMASTER CRANBROOK SCHOOL
SYDNEY
Church of England School for Boys.
Member of the Associated Schools of NSW
Member of the Headmasters conference of the
Independent Schools of Australia.
Present enrolment over 900 day boys and boarders.
Applications are invited for the position of
HEADMASTER.
Duties to commence in May 1963.
Applications will close on the 31st October, 1962.
For full particulars apply:
THE BURSAR,
Box 3362 G.P.O.
SYDNEY.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
“MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT 1959”
To WILLIAM LANCE KENT late of Sydney
TAKE NOTICE that CATHERINE LEONORE
KENT has filed a Petition for Divorce
(No. 1622 of 1962) on the grounds of Separa-
tion. If you wish to defend you may enter
an Answer in the Divorce Registry, Supreme
Court, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, by the 19th of October ,1962, and
obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
from J. J. KIELY, Solicitor, 17 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: KENNETH EDWARD ELLIS late Of 38
Brae Street, Waverley. TAKE NOTICE that
MARY MAVIS ELLIS has filed a petition for
divorce No 2680 of 1962 on the ground of
Desertion. If you wish to defend you may
enter an answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, by the sth day of November,
1962, and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from Nicholas Ruza, Esq.,
Solicitor of 391-393 George Street, Sydney.
C A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
Please arrange for my BULLETIN to
be delivered to me each week by
MY NEWSAGENT
BY DIRECT SUBSCRIPTION
Please tick whichever method of
delivery you prefer.
For those desiring direct sub-
scription:
Piease find enclosed my cheque/money
order for months subscription to
THE BULLETIN.
RATES (Australia and New Guinea) 1 year
£2 125.; V 2 year £1 6s. Post free British
Dominions £3 6d. Other countries
£ 3 15s
N.Z. SUBSCRIPTIONS Remit to Box 965
Wellington, N.Z. 1 year £2 12s. N.Z.
currency V 2 year—£l 6s. (N.Z. currency).
Please add exchange to cheques.
Perhaps this is the first issue of THE BULLETIN
have read. But whether you are a new reader ©r an
old one why don't you make sure of YOUi copy of
THE BULLETIN by ordering it each week? There are
two ways of doing it —either through your newsagent
or by direct subscription. The form at left offers you
your choice of method of delivery. You may send us
your name and address and we will arrange for the
newsagent nearest you to deliver your copy of
THE BULLETIN each week and charge it to your account.
Or, if you prefer it, we will mail each week's copy
to your address by direct subscription.
The
Bulletin
Incorporating The Australian Financial Times


Feiffer
WllO? Me MILES TOOMVCHim TAZZ
MUSICIAN THIS IS THE STATE D£PT>
BUREAU OF IMAGES- MOTOR l/TUEER
SPEAKIU6. I'M CAUIM6, SIC, IM RF6ARP
TO THE 66WQ2ALS
(TAU ft)R '/MPROI/IM6 OUR
IMA66 ABROAP BM SEMDW6.
01/6R OUR \miIUTVM
AMP ARTISTIC EE/TH -
ARE, MR.
/Toom octi I - mu,
WE 5M SO l
HO m 15 TMIfJ6 TO SUPPRESS Hoy M£
TOOpIUCH, but If 15, SORT OP WU R IM A&e OF
OUR IMA 66 A6AIUST OUR IHA6e OF OUR IHA&B,
|SK)T Iff aup smivar ihporxaut opchiomf
OM |MA6£ BB LBFT IU M HAiUPS OF THS PUBLIC
pblavorf expe&.s mo hav me
ACC6SS t> CLASSIFIEQ POBLICIXH
THAT 40U POUT ftUOud ABOUX ?
AMHOW, VOM HERE AT IMA6E JOSf
WAJOTEP IZ> CHECK tyU OUT 0 W SOME
DIFFICULT &(j£ST[OMS POO MI6HT BE
ASKEP CM POUR TRIP- MOU KMOuJ-
fr-f RIOTIU6 STOPEfJS OR
SOMETHIN.
FOR IMSTAUCE WHAT IjOCOLV
ncv sam about oue
EFSEMPTIOfJ of ATMOS'
PH6RIC TFSTIU6 ?
MiI,LOOK, MR- 'TOOMUCH, o£R>£E WE REISSUE
Lioo pour PA &pdzt M mr i sewp hou
ove SAMPLE' (MASS SALES MCLUPIK6
PAMPHLETS, F/LM STRIPS AIUP WSUAL AH7S- At A
UWPER THE 6EAJERAL TITLE E>F
OPERATION: GOOD GUY."
DE'P LIRE WO TP HAI/E THE
RI6HT 6LAUT OSFORS WO
WEfJT AgpOAP,S/e. t
(M, mo w THAT IMOiO WU 7 AUP
H OlO MUUP 0(0V HANDLE VN&ie
QUESTION 0(0 RACE PftATIOIJS f -
I SU-. AMP AOOUf OUR BERUtf,
mo AW A'SIANJ ?ol\C\&?_.
—-MMM ' UMMMt' i'
w ill, Me Toohocu,
IUSTEAt? of Mi
THAT couipur
tjoo josr play
SOM£fHltU6 0(0
iiOUR H<?R(O ?
I HfA/o
BMf MU9IC
Tf?lM THP
BBT
COMMtWICAt)??
AFTea Mi IMAOe
16 gV£RYBODYS>
JOB.
The Bulletin" Crossword No. 711
ACROSS
I—Royal1—Royal Naval units used to be located at this
Dresden Bahnhof? (5, 7)
9—Curve responsible for the car smash. (3).
10— Caper with which one heads acts ahead of events.
(ID
11— Improperly sharp pro-Negro blue books are their
handiwork. (13)
12 — Facts hard to learn from him who’s backing this
bird means of communication. (4)
13— Lies within the son of Nagge, according to St.
Luke. (4)
15 —Become responsible for the
mongrel’s food after eating.
(5)
18 — Fighting recovery too much
for this somewhat alienated
Greek. (5)
19— Fruit assignation. (4)
20— Photo friers are back. (4)
23—Polite way of taking the air?
(5, 8)
25 — The vegetable kingdom to
snare an English dynast. (11)
26 The Queen is interrupted by
a listener. (3)
27 Mushy drove one crazy. (11)
DOWN
1— —Who applauds some of a
bell? (7)
2 How things may be written
when rushing in batting mon-
grels I have. (9)
3 -A disreputable piece of cloth
on some of Spain. (6)
4 Treat for Murphy. (5)
5 Fieldsman to grub finish
brickwork. (9)
6 Iron help available from the
French orphan. (8)
7 More blustery row with
Bluett. (7)
8— It is indeed the end of many
a sickness. (4)
14—An incidental anecdote is
upset with joy. (9)
16— Miss Horne is questioned as
to my ability with a song-
like instrumental episode. (9)
17— Naval unit with the injured
voter, etc. (8)
18— Come to grips with King
George and forbidden fruit.
(7)
21— Store-room attempt by a
pastoral deity. (6)
22 Province of Switzerland
cannot change an oriental
city. (6)
23 This makes a bloke crack.
(4)
24 Beethoven omitted too much
poison. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 710


arl
.4
..4
■Hni,;/' m,dm
' v ■ ?;§£J
■ -C' : j "" H
-- arm a
-. ■ / .
i
W
msmi
■ ■
■ ■
*'•
:
gfea2gg||p r g|? l ' Ai "” --r
sßsKi C-. '■' Cj _ , £?&
****■' ■ - - •"**
I :
c
&
&
iSfefl^ : 4i«
11111
H
■ /:
c
■■
■■ .■■■:
s
\" ;
;
m s
■
v..
* DtcNpuct e»
HVVtS*
- — visr:y.sm^^
\
.
m
s;r _- *•»:
Wf- v -Sr#-!
**r a-
s& - v . s - .
-v *, *- * *&'■&.s'■■ '3 S" >
r ,* SEUECTtn
aOTTUN ',
: ■ ,
■
CLARET
11
-**;S
■»—
;■
£ „-■': ,«mv- -■», , •
iSSSS
>o«
mu^mOh
IE'CTED ; "'
....
TrilT: ; 1
mm
m
HOCK
tei. •■ ■ *- * '- !
m LTD.
Wfc
Good Food Deserves
CAWARRA
A noble wine for a noble roast! Cawarra Claret, the most
popular red table wine in Australia, was selected exclusively
by the French Olympic Team on their visit to Melbourne.
When you choose white wine order Cawarra Riesling,
dry, delicate and delightful in every way.
/trifle
marts
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST PRIZEWINNERS
