

The
Bulletin
Registered in Australia for trans-
mission by post as a newspaper.
March 3, 1962
r-
CANBERRA
Cold Feet
Hot Seats
PICASSO
THREE VITAL
ELECTIONS
N. — S. A. —W. A.


Visit Adelaide next March for Australia’s greatest programme of
MUSIC . OPERA . DRAMA . DANCE . JAZZ . ART & PAGEANTRY
The Second
ADELAIDE FESTIVAL
March 17-31, 1962
v.:
m
r*.
IK
V
k
;ft>
Full Programmes and Booking Order
Forms are available now from
All Airlines and Travel Agents
7he South Australian Government Tourist Bureau:
28 Martin Place, Sydney, N.S.W.
8 Royal Arcade, Melbourne, Victoria.
18 King William Street, Adelaide, S.A.
or from the Festival Office, G.P.O. Box 392, Adelaide, S.A.
OF ARTS
• The London Philharmonic Orchestra
• Choir of the Royal Christchurch Musical
Society
• Yehudi and Hephzibah Menuhin
> Baskhar & Company, Indian Dancers
plus
• A season of 4 Operas by The Elizabethan
Theatre Trust Opera Company.
• 4 new drama productions including
the Australian Premiere of Archibald
MacLeish’s Pulitzer Prize play, “J.B.’’
• Return concerts by the Dave Brubeck
Quartet.
BOOKINGS
NOW
OPEN
FOR SPEED
(First issues off the press)
CONVENIENCE
(Right to your moil-box)
CONTINUITY
(No chance of missing out)
HAVE
Bulletin
DELIVERED BY POST
Subscription Form
NEW SEB./RENEWAL
(Please cross out one)
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please find enclosed my cheque I money-order for
... months’ subscription to The Bulletin.
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; \ year—£l 6s.
British C’wealth: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign: £3 16s.
N.Z. CURRENCY (Remit to Box 965. Welling-
ton. N.Z.): A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \
year—l9s. 6d. British C’wealth: £2 3s.
Foreign £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether
the subscription is paid direct to The Bulletin or
any newsagent in Australia or N.Z.
Australia's only News Magazine 44 pages of top - flight information.


PICASSO .. .. page 40
by John Olsen
The Heffron I know .. .. 11
Canberra: Cold Feet, Hot Seats 14
Colin Simpson’s 20 Points .. 16
Double Bay—Life in The Village 20
Pep’s Politicians .. .. .. 22
©
o
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
MELBOURNE LETTER • • 9
LETTERS •• •• • 18
STORY 24
WILD CAT 27
SPECULATOR’S DIARY 33
FEIFFER 34
OUT AND ABOUT •• •• 35
RED PAGE •• •• *• 40
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY LTD
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; Phone: 27 5571.
Vol. 83
No. 4281
PLAIN ENGLISH
THE DLP CRIES WOLF
JUDGING from our correspondents’ reports in this issue on the three
State elections to be held this month, the Democratic Labor party
remains as big a question mark as ever in Australian politics. Aus-
tralian newspapers have adopted various attitudes to it: some regard it as
a Roman Catholic monolith as dangerous as the Communist party; others
see it as a nuisance party disturbing the nice even balance of the two party
systems; others take the less democratic view that, because it is a minority
party, it should not be allowed to exist. All these various attitudes mis-
understand the nature of the DLP and miss the main criticism that should
. be made of it.
Quite clearly the DLP exists for one prime reason: it does not want
to see the Labor party in office as long as its prominent officials and
members are prepared to co-operate with leading members of the Com-
munist party. As long as it can hold enough votes in Federal elections in
Victoria, where most of the Labor party’s troubles fester, it can achieve its
object. There is no need to hammer the point, but, if the Victorian branch
of the ALP stopped helping communists, the DLP would lose its raison
d’etre and its electoral support. It would probably disappear.
The fact is that the ALP is not yet taking the necessary steps. In some
recent important trade-union elections anti-communist ALP candidates
such as Mr C. Fitzgibbon, of the Waterside Workers’ Federation, and
Mr J. McDowell, of the Amalgamated Engineering Union, dislodged
communist officials. But —and this is the point—they received only minimal
official support from the ALP, some in the case of Mr Fitzgibbon and
none in the case of Mr McDowell. The organisational guts of both cam-
paigns, particularly Mr McDowell’s, were provided by Mr Santamaria’s
National Civic Council. While this sort of situation exists there is an
obvious justification for the DLP and the National Civic Council. Leader
writers and political commentators who ignore this are blinding them-
selves and their readers to one of the facts of Australian political life.
However, in the current State election campaigns the DLP is behaving
rather stupidly and doing the anti-communist cause more harm than good.
In a TCN “Meet the Press” interview on Sunday night, when Mr }. Kane,
the Federal and NSW secretary of the DLP, was asked if communists
dominated the NSW Labor Government, he said: “Yes, the Labor party’s
structure is conducive to this. While the ALP permits communist-
dominated unions affiliated with it to send delegates they [the communists]
will entirely influence Labor policy.” The Heffron Labor Government
may be old, tired and groggy from trying to keep up with Mr Askin’s hard-
hitting campaign, but Mr Kane’s allegation is plainly ridiculous, and Mr
Kane would do well to re-read the story about the boy who cried wolf.
And this is the main criticism of the DLP. Its dilemma is that to keep
the Federal Labor party out of office it must run candidates in the State
elections to establish the fact that it is a genuine third party. But at the
same time it does not have any definite State purposes outside Victoria and
Queensland, since only there is the communist issue of central importance
in State politics. So the result is that it is fielding its candidates at the
moment in NSW, South Australia and Western Australia largely on an
anti-communist platform, where this is irrelevant. It thus makes both itself
and anti-communism appear ridiculous. However, as The Bulletin has
frequently pointed out, the solution lies with the ALP officials themselves.


National
Notebook
A Roof
With a View
VA7E were just leaving for Circular
’ ’ Quay for the opening of the 26-
storey AMP building, when someone
from Eric White Associates, who pro-
ject the public image of the society, rang
in some agitation. He had noticed that
the representative of The Bulletin
would be a woman. This was difficult.
It was an all-male affair. However, after
inspecting the type of woman The
Bulletin can produce he said it would
be all right. He added kindly that he
doubted that anyone would notice.
Cleared sex-wise, we hurried through
the main entrance of the building in
Alfred Street. Hurrying was important.
We had been assured by someone,
who probably knows nothing about it,
that the marble slabs which decorate the
front of the building will come unstuck
within two years. This may be nonsense,
but we do remember the showers of
splintered glass from the ICI building
in Melbourne. Tumbling tombstones may
be Sydney’s answer to that.
Prime Minister Menzies, who was to
open the building (without, said the
handout, any “symbolic gesture”),
hurried in, too, accompanied by Dame
Pattie, who charmingly squashed any
idea of an all-male affair. They in-
spected several floors of the building,
and then went on the roof to admire
the view and to be photographed admir-
ing the view.
Once guards are put up to prevent a
rash of suicides, the roof will be open to
the public. The view from the roof is
breathtaking, but the buildings below
are more fascinating than the distant
mountains. The ICI, Unilever and
Lend-Lease buildings have their roofs
Jittered with all sorts of untidy, modern
paraphernalia, but the roof of the old
Exchange Building, soon to be demol-
ished, is green, peaceful, English
meadow-wise.
The 50,000 gallons of water from the
Harbor (the AMP, in a burst of his-
torical feeling, is trying to get it called
Sydney Cove again) which is pumped
in and out of the building to keep the
air conditioning going will, the handout
assured us, make no difference to the
temperature of the harbor or the
water level. Apparently, there is little
legal difficulty about helping yourself to
Harbor water, so long as everybody
doesn’t start doing it at once.
The Monster
of Darwin Harbor
TAarwin’s Mandorah Monster was
sighted again the other day. For
three years it has been popping up
around the harbor, making fishermen
jittery and launching endless discussions
in the bar of the Hotel Darwin or the
Buffalo Club. The first to see the mon-
ster was the Mandorah holiday camp
proprietor, Alan Carter, who described it
as black, metallic, and moving at a
phenomenal “70 m.p.h. or thereabouts.”
Later witnesses have seen it shoot "green
lights” into the sky! It has also been
heard to “grunt,” “hiss” and “roar.” The
Melbourne visitor who has just seen it
said it “hurtled” across the harbor mak-
ing a “swooshing” noise.
Quite carried away by all this, the
“Northern Territory News” editorially
compared Darwin's “Thing” with the
Loch Ness Monster. “Let's get to it.” the
newspaper crowed “Sydney has its
Bridge, Adelaide its churches, Melbourne
its wonderful weather, and Darwin its
Mandorah Monster. Let the tourist turn-
stiles click merrily.”
The Man Who Didn’t
Come to Lunch
Tust before Mr Menzies opened the
AMP building we sat up with
another group of Mr Menzies’s ad-
mirers, lunching at King’s Cross to
celebrate one of his minor acts of self-
sacrifice for his country —his assent to
be painted for a “Time” magazine cover
by Dobell. Some years ago when Terry
Clune of Clune Galleries, Sydney,
suggested to Dame Pattie Menzies that
Dobell should do a portrait of her
husband, her reaction left him in doubt
what the Menzies thought of Dobell as
a painter, yet when Time-Life asked him
to sit for Dobell he agreed to do it —
solely, we must assume, for the sake of
the publicity, it would bring Australia.
Even so, he only sat for 50 minutes (two
sessions, one of 30 minutes, one of 20).
Despite this, Dobell produced a
masterpiece that combines an academic
style with guts in a way that really puts
Annigoni in his place —as will become
clearer still if “Time’s” present plans to
have Dobell paint President Kennedy
come off and that painting can be
compared with Annigoni’s Kennedy.
As Mr James Keogh of “Time”
formally handed the painting over to
Professor Waterhouse of the National
Art Gallery of NSW and Professor Water-
house begged the public to follow
‘Time’s” example and support the Gallery,
it was all rather like “Hamlet” without
the Prince—but at least we had the Ghost.
Although Mr Menzies himself did not
come, he was there all right, on the can-
vas at the far end of the dining room,
staring down disdainfully at us. Whenever
we caught his cold eye as we sampled our
lobster, he looked like the Credit Squeeze
personified. There was, nowevei, one
concession to his artistic tastes the
painting was displayed on the easel used
by Sir Edwin Landseer.
Without
Father Comment
Adelaide’s new literary magazine,
“Australian Book Review,” has pro-
duced more lively correspondence. The
current issue, for example, runs a letter
from the Communist party’s Cultural
Commissar, Mr Judah Waten, and a
rejoinder from one of the editors:
Sir,
1 have read your footnote disclaiming
authorship of the unsigned McCarthyite
review of my novel Time Of Conflict.
Of course, the review could have been
written by Mr Dutton, the Adelaide Club
poet, the mansion-dwelling scourge of
suburbanites, and Playford's apologist,
or Mr P. R. Stephenson of Australia-
First fame, or Mr Paul McGuire of the
National Civic Council or Mrs Anne
Neill. But until you publish the name
of the author, I will still be inclined to
think it was written by none other than
the chief himself, “Quick Quid” Maxie,
the pet of the reactionary-moneyed high-
brows, the eternal would-be enfant
terrible.
Judah Waten
Max Harris replies: Mr Waten’s letters
have become such a popular feature of
“Australian Book Review” that the
Editors have decided to offer him a life
subscription in return for his assistance.
Would Mr Waten, for next month, con-
sider the possibility of Urn Turner or
Stephen Murray-Smith as the unknown
critic, and let us have his further
responses.


Tanner
"WHAT ELSE DOES HE SAY ABOUT PEACE TALKS?"




For election matter in this issue requiring
signature, Peter Hastings, of 252 George Street,
Sydney, is responsible.
This Australia
NEW SOUTH WALES
ASKIN'S BIG GAMBLE
FROM A NEW SOUTH WALES CORRESPONDENT
R. W. ASKIN
TV and SP
X2or the first time in over 20 years it
■*- is possible for the New South Wales
Labor Government to be beaten. In the
last Parliament, Labor held 49 seats to
Liberals 29, Country Party 15 and Inde-
pendent one —leaving a slender majority
of four seats to Labor. And the new
possibility of defeat for Labor lies more
in the much over-exaggerated, but never-
theless real, resurgence of the NSW
Liberals. During this election they really
are fighting like a party with determin-
ation and hope.
The State Liberals’ campaign actually
began last April during the Legislative
Council referendum. It was during this
campaign that the image of their leader,
53-year-old Robin William Askin. was
first built up. And the Liberals are bank-
ing as much on his image as a young,
vigorous team leader as on their policies.
In election propaganda they are relying
heavily on the contrast between an old,
tired Government led by an ageing 71-
year-old Premier Heffron, and that of a
vigorous, rejuvenated Liberal party to
gain them office.
But there are two factors above every-
thing else which will decide the result.
The first is the effect of the swing against
the Menzies’ Government in the last
Federal elections ; and the second is that
this election is not so much a State-wide
election as a dozen or more by-elections.
In the Federal elections it was the
Liberal party which was “standing on its
record” and appealing to voters to return
the “experienced team” while the Labor
party effectively campaigned on “we will
put things back in order.” Added to that
was the question of unemployment But
this time, the positions are reversed:
Labor is relying on its record and the
Federal swing against the Liberals to
retain office. It also hopes to cash in on
the unemployment position—officially
47,000 in NSW (or 2.9 per cent, of the
work force). This time the Liberals are
putting up a policy—and as fast as they
do the Labor party pinches it. What
influence the Liberals’ setback in the
Federal elections will have is anyone's
guess, but the NSW Liberals are not taking
any chances and Prime Minister Menzies
has not been invited to play a part in the
election.
No one more than the Liberal party
has realised that this is a series of by-
elections rather than a State-wide elec-
tion. They have concentrated their
resources on the “swing” seats such as
Sutherland, Randwick, Ryde, Rockdale.
Concord, in the city, and Mudgee, Goul-
burn, Murrumbbidgee in the country.
The TV propaganda tends to follow a
pattern: Mr Heffron sits before the
cameras ; or the Labor party shows us all
the buildings going up. the good housing
areas, the size of the State, the wide busy
highways and the factories built by over-
seas capital providing employment for the
“workers of New South Wales”. Liberal
propaganda works the other way: like
socialist realist documentaries, they show
the number of unfinished projects begun
by Labor, the poor housing areas, the
narrow, choked highways, the ghastly
mental asylum, the size and extent of
Victorian factories. The examples are
always taken from “swing” seats.
Again, in contrast to the Labor party,
the Liberals have a policy. One of the
boldest pieces of political gambling was
the announcement by the Liberals that
they would legalise starting price betting.
SP betting has long been a hot potato
in NSW as elsewhere and the Labor party
has always shied away from public dis-
cussion of it. Both parties thought that
a section of the Protestant vote would be
lost if any attempt were made to legalise
or organise this “evil”. Askin took the
risk, said it was a bad thing but added
that the best way of dealing with it was
to bring it out in the open. Few people
thought the Liberal party would be game
enough to take this line, but Askin's
gamble seems to have come off: only a
few churchmen have complained, and
the protests have been neither loud nor
emphatic. (Half-way through the election
the Labor party announced it would
“investigate” SP betting, with the infer-
ence being that it too would eventually
legalise it).
Askin also gained in a much more prac-
tical way from his SP gamble. He esti-
mated at least £sm. revenue (Treasury
estimates go as high as £lom.) annually
from it and he intends to use this money
to finance some of his proposals He
intends to resume the building of the
Eastern Suburbs railway to Bondi
Junction —a Labor white elephant ;
authorise lending bodies, with govern-
ment guarantees, to lend up to 95 per
cent, of the purchase price of a home and
increase to £4OOO the allowable loans
from housing societies ; finish other unfin-
ished projects of the Labor Government ;
and finance “indirect aid” to private
schools.
ft is "State aid which has been the
hurdle around which both the Labor and
Liberal parties have had to go. The
Country party jumped the hurdle last
year when it decided “to meet the interest
on loans raised for approved essential
expansion by existing independent schools
over an experimental period of five years.’’
The Liberal party decided to increase
State Government bursaries to all secon-
dary schools, and offered free transport
to all school children.
The Democratic Labor party's effect
on the campaign will lie only in its
second preferences in “tight” contests. It
is only standing 25 candidates and, while
it should marginally increase its votes on
the last State election figures, it has made
the stupid mistake of attacking the ALP
in New South Wales for being under
strong communist influence. If anything,
the Heffron Government gives the impres-
sion of being a Left-wing Liberal Govern-
ment. This raising of the communist issue
in this State's election will do its cause
more harm than good and may bounce
back on it if there is a Federal election
late this year or early next.
The Labor party offered nothing.
During the campaign there was a lot of
talk about an alleged “deal” between the
Catholic hierarchy and the Labor party
but no evidence was produced to sub-
stantiate it. In the main, Labor lost from
the State aid fuss because it highlighted
the fact that while the Labor party has
relied on the “Catholic vote” to keep it
in office over the years, it has never
attempted to provide “State aid.”
As for forecasting the result, it is expec-
ted that the Labor party, while it won't
gain seats, may be able to hang on to its
slender majority. But after the last Fed-
eral elections, who can forecast results?
These Elections
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
PLAYFORD'S
THREE DANGERS
FROM AN ADELAIDE CORRESPONDENT
SIR THOMAS PLAYFORD
Nehru of the South
'This Saturday, Sir Thomas Playford, the
A shrewd 65-year-old orchardist from
the Adelaide Hills district of Norton
Summit, will be attempting to win his
eighth successive election as premier of
South Australia since Guy Fawkes’ Day,
1938.
In the event of no seats changing
hands this election (which is possible)
the two Independents could once again
hold the balance of power in favor of the
LCL. At present the Assembly strengths
are: LCL 20, ALP 17, Independent 2.
There are possibly three dangers for
Sir Thomas: without him there would
be a fourth. For there is no doubt that
Premier Playford enjoys a personal
following and a prestige similar to that
enjoyed by an ageing Nehru or Adenauer.
He has been an Institution for many
years now. He has been Premier longer
than any other Minister in the history of
British Commonwealth politics. Should
he be able to survive the next two elec-
tions as leader and retain Gov-
ernment, he will be 71 at the end of his
elected terms. He appears in good health,
but if anyone is to decide it is time for
a well-earned rest it will be the Premier
himself.
First of the three dangers for Play-
ford and the LCL is the danger associa-
ted with any Government that has been
in office for a long time.
Second danger lies in the political
climate shown through the Federal elec-
tion results. But the LCL will be at
pains to fight the State election on State
issues. In his own way. Premier Playford
has perhaps done his best to keep Federal
issues from the campaign, but he still had
to resort to the counter-defensive of
releasing Press statements on the large
numbers of workers he says the State
Government is taking on to combat
unemployment.
The third danger is in personalities. In
the marginal seat of Unley the ALP-
endorsed candidate is former Australian
Test Cricketer Mr Gil Langley. He will
try to topple sitting member Mr Colin
Dunnage, who won his seat in 1953 by
the slender margin of 91 votes. The ALP
has, in this campaign, been trying to
whittle down the personal following of
the Education Minister, Mr Pattinson,
who holds the metropolitan seaside elec-
torate of Glenelg. On Federal figures
Glenelg should be a Labor seat. Mr
Pattinson has always managed to sur-
prise in the past with his strong personal
vote.
The DLP, which has poor support in
SA (it got about six per cent, of the
primary votes cast in the recent Federal
election), will not be in a strong position.
Although the party endorsed 15 candid-
ates to contest Assembly seats (the same
as in the previous election), the candidates
have been given precious little time to
arrange their campaigns. Many of the
DLP candidates were not endorsed until
the first or second weeks in February.
The party has been instructed to conserve
funds for any future Federal election
and the only reason for its participation
seems to lie in maintaining its image of a
Federal party.
Contests will occur in 31 of the Assem-
bly seats, leaving eight members to be
re-elected immediately. Entry of a
reasonable number of DLP candidates
(particularly in Unley and Glenelg) will
ensure the LCL of having preferences to
rely upon as a backstop. The number of
borderline seats is debatable. Besides
Unley and Glenelg there are at least four
country borderline seats. The Govern-
ment would have to lose two seats to
give power to the ALP for the first time
since 1933.
Strangely enough there are two ALP-
held seats that the LCL considers it has
good chances of winning. These are the
second largest electorate of the State —
Frome —in the north of SA, and Milli-
cent in the south-east. The ALP won
Frome at a recent by-election by only 11
votes. Since then the predominantly
Labor-class mining centre of Radium Hill
has closed down and some of the several
hundred electors from Radium Hill have
shifted out of the electorate. At Milli-
cent the ALP sitting member, Mr Jim
Corcoran, has retired. His son, a Per-
manent Army instructor, will take his
place. Whether the young Mr J. D. Cor-
coran can retain the seat for the ALP
could depend on whether the strong per-
sonal vote recorded in favor of his father
is transferred to him.
When one thinks of the hard, but
far from impossible, task of the
ALP this election if it wants to
regain power, one can see the funny side
of a cartoon published in Rupert Mur-
doch's “Adelaide News". It showed
“Uncle Tom" in the benign and stub-
bornly contented shape of a sphinx.
Nearby were a few Labor excavators
frantically trying to shift the massive
monument with tiny shovels and beach
buckets. On the other end of the scale,
surprisingly enough, was a cartoon in
“The Advertiser” depicting the ALP
leader, Mr Frank Walsh, carrying the
Premier out of his office on a seated chair
before the election had even been held.
The implication from the caption lines
was that Mr Walsh, thought he had the
election already won.
The campaign has brought up some


interesting issues. The ALP leader,
Walsh, who succeeded the late Mr “Mick”
O’Halloran, is still establishing himself as
a leader. In his campaign he put forward
three policy items that could possibly win
votes for his party. They are: a decision
to hold a referendum on extension of
liquor-trading hours and a State lottery,
and a promise to attempt the drilling of
a 39-mile tunnel under the Mount Lofty
Ranges. If elected to Government the
ALP would take steps to have the tunnel
built, Mr Walsh promised. The tunnel
would carry railway trains and water
under the ranges instead of over the top.
The Premier was quick to criticise the
scheme, saying it w'ould cost at least £220
million. But Sir Thomas was under-
standably silent on the referendum
issues. His Government has never been
one to support demands for longer drink-
ing hours or a State lottery,
Because of far-flung electorates and the
high number of postal votes lodged in
SA, the result of the election may not be
known for some days.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
THE WESTERN BRAND
A. HAWKE
In the way?
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
nPHE shadow of Robert Gordon Menzies
will hang heavily over Western Aus-
tralia in the State elections on March 31.
The sitting Liberal-Country party gov-
ernment wants to invoke the Menzies
image as a friendly one to WA, since
Federal government decisions over the
past three years have been largely
responsible for the promise of an indus-
trial renaissance in the West. On the
other hand he will have to dissociate him-
self from unpopular Federal economic
policies to plug the line that WA s high
rate of employment is due entirely to
State Government policies.
His coalition Government holds only
a one seat majority in the Assembly and
the recent re-distribution of electorates
has thrown the whole question of its
return into the melting pot. If it had
not been for the re-distribution forced
upon the Government by a successful
Labor party writ in the State Supreme
Court, Mr Brand might have felt more
confident of a return to power and per-
haps an increased majority. Now he is
going to have to fight very hard indeed.
On paper, the Government has an
impressive record. It has attracted more
than £100,000,000 of investment capita!
in its first three years, including the
£80,000.000 Kwinana steel industry and
rail standardisation combination. It has
accelerated land development and cut the
Railways deficit and the overall Treasury
deficit. The rail standardisation pro-
gramme will soon be under way and the
iron ore contracts let out.
If Mr Brand has a problem relating
to Mr Menzies, Opposition leader Hawke
has an even greater problem relating to
Mr Brand. Mr Hawke would really like
to attack the Government for giving away
the State’s valuable resources at low
rates in the interests of industrial develop-
ment at any price. (He has already
sideswiped at this issue in his attitude
towards State royalties and the rail freight
rates offered to the BHP steel industry.)
But if he plugs this line too hard he
could be accused of standing in the way
of the State’s advancement.
He will almost certainly attack the
Government for its sale of the State
Building Supplies to the Hawker Siddeley
Group. He can make some pretty good
capital out of the write-off of about
£1,500,000 in the sale and if he has the
right information he can also be pretty
scathing about its handling of the iron
ore contracts.
Although industrialisation is the real
issue in the elections, betting will also
become a most dominant one, as in NSW.
The L-CP Government has replaced
Labor's system of licensed off-course
bookmakers with a Totalisator Agency
Board as recommended by the 1959
Royal Commission. It has been under
constant fire from Labor since its incep-
tion and Deputy Opposition leader
Tonkin has almost made criticism of the
TAB operations a full-time job. Mr
Tonkin is unlikely to be put off by the
TAB’s reported profit of £76,000 for the
last three months of its operations and
will probably persuade his leader to go
on claiming that the Government is
losing money on its overall operations.
Karrinyup, Canning and Perth are
the vital seats in the metropolitan area
and Murchison in the country. At
present. Murchison looks an almost
certain loss to the Government. Canning
is an amalgamation of two Liberal seats
and should go to the Government.
Karrinyup is an almost entirely new
seat and a big question mark, with both
parties putting up strong candidates.
Former league footballer '“Pops ' Heal will
be battling hard to retain Perth for
Labor, despite an influx of Labor votes
from the old East Perth seat.
The biggest question of ali is whether
the anti-Liberal vote in the Federal elec-
tions will spill over to the State campaign.
If it does, Mr Brand's coalition will
almost certainly be crossing the floor of
the Assembly. However, the L-CP did
better in WA in the Federal vote than in
most other States (a fact not generally
realised) and there is some evidence that
the electorate is capable of making a
clear distinction between State L-CP and
Federal L-CP.
HOTELS
OFFICER KELLY'S LICENCE
FROM A BRISBANE CORRESPONDENT
ALAN MUNRO
A Commission
ryMiNUTiVE Licensing Commission
chairman John Kelly has again cap-
tured his quota of headlines. After
having persuaded Surfers’ Paradise Hotel
comedian Stan Bourne to abandon his
vaudeville humor on the ground that
five per cent, of it was “lewd,” Mr Kelly
raised another storm with his announce-
ment that the Commission had accepted
a hotel-licence tender at Inala. Inala


is one of Brisbane’s newest suburbs, more
or less isolated on the southern out-
skirts of the city, and built almost entirely
by the Housing Commission since the
war. Badly served by communications,
and subject to a tenancy turnover that
could eventually reduce it to semi-
slum standards, it is nevertheless regarded
as a “plum” by hotel interests, with its
bottled-off population of more than
12,000.
The highest tender came from Queen
Street Hotels Pty Ltd, owners of a group
of four main city and suburban and one
Gold Coast hotel. It submitted a tender
of £20,200, and undertook to build a
hotel in the heart of Inala near the Civic
Centre at a cost of £150,450. Queen
Street Hotels is an aggressive syndicate,
which recently unsuccessfully took to the
Privy Council an appeal against a
majority High Court judgment upholding
the State’s hotel licensing fees. (It acts
independently of the moribund Queens-
land Hotels Federation). Other tenders
included one for £20,000 with a £105,000
hotel plan and another for £lO,OOO with
a £166,000 hotel building.
The successful tenderer was Mr Kevin
Francis Ward, who submitted a tender of
£7500 and a plan for a £150,000 hotel, to
be built by Castlemaine Perkins. Accord-
ing to the losing tenderers, insult was
added to injury by the fact that
the site for the new hotel was not even in
Inala, but in adjoining Oxley, only a few
blocks away from the privately owned
Oxley Hotel, with the licensed Oxley
Golf Club in between.
Chairman Kelly, somewhat startled at
the blast of publicity precipitated by
these disclosures, said that the tender
price was only one of many factors
and was not decisive. Oxley residents,
mystified and annoyed by the Commis-
sion’s decision, have since been asking
just exactly what are those other factors
that, apart from anything else, have
cost the Queensland public nearly
£13,000 in hard cash alone.
Petitions to the Governor-in-Council to
reverse the Commission’s decision have
been lodged by both Queen Street Hotels
Pty Ltd and the Oxley Hotel licensee,
who claims, among other things, that
the site of the proposed hotel jeopardises
extensive improvements made recently to
his hotel. Possible legal action against
the Commission was being . umored by
the weekend and the whole matter seems
certain to be made the subject of exhaus-
tive inquiry in the forthcoming session
of State Parliament. Justice Minister
Alan Munro has called for a Commission
report, and the matter is to be considered
by Cabinet on March 5.
Melbourne Letter
THE NEW IMAGE
Tust lately Melbourne has developed
a a fascinating new image. The
weather has been so sunny and balmy
over the past six months that the
town now has possibilities as a plea-
sure resort. One commentator has
suggested, even, that the Bayside
resorts should follow Surfers’ Paradise
and develop fine, touristy names.
Bikini Paradise could be good for St
Kilda, or why not Sunstroke Strip for
Elwood?
But the new racy image for Mel-
bourne has been vastly helped by the
NSW elections campaign. The Liberal
opposition frequently has cited Mel-
bourne as a progressive city that in-
dulged in such advanced practices as
an off-course tote, as a non-bowser
city where coin-in-the-slot petrol
pumps operated day and night, and
a place where women’s hairdressing
salons were permitted to stay open
on Thursday nights. What’s more,
Melbourne was capital of a State where
banks still remained open on Saturday
mornings.
But before anyone gets the idea that
Melbourne has become as carefree as
Las Vegas, the past week has made it
clear that the defenders of our public
morals are still a powerful force. The
first opportunity came during the Aus-
tralian Swimming Championships.
No fashion-conscious teenager would
dream of buying a pair of togs that
were the correct size. As the Sydney
coach Frank Guthrie put it: “Some
lads who should buy a size 32 buy size
26.” So when the winners, wearing
their skimpy costumes, climbed to the
dais at Melbourne’s Olympic Pool
last week many Melburnians were
shocked. One lady swim official
counter-attacked: “You can see much
worse at the National Gallery.”
But it was all in vain. The Amateur
Swimming Union banned the too-brief
trunks. To make matters even more
correct the order went out that all
place-getters had to wear towels in
front of them when receiving their
medallions on the dais.
Former Olympic swimmer Judy Joy
Davies recalled that last week’s prob-
lems were really nothing. At the 1960
Australian championships in Sydney.
John Rigby, of Queensland, wore
junior, thigh-size trunks. During the
1650 yards freestyle his trunks started
to slip. They fell to his knees and
tangled around his feet. Two laps
from home he kicked them off and
finished, in broad daylight—in the
nude. His time was so good he won a
place in the Olympic team for Rome.
While one group of public morals
defenders was watching swimsuits
another group was watching Moomba.
The Moomba Committee announced
that during the Festival, March 2-12,
a bar, a bistro and a beer garden
would be open in the Alexandra
Gardens. At least 2000 gallons of
beer, plus spirits, and 200 gallons of
wine would be sold under the biggest
open-air licence ever granted in Mel-
bourne.
Many thought this was carrying the
spirit of Moomba—“Let’s Get To-
gether and Have Fun”— a little too
far. The Methodist clergy protested.
So did the temperance associations,
and the letter columns to the news-
papers were magnificently filled. To
the “Age,” “L.T. of Broadford” wrote:
“Sir, —It seems to me that the pre-
sent interpretation of Moomba is:
‘Let's get together and get drunk.’ The
Alexandra Gardens were created as a
haven of peace, which generations of
people have loved. Is nothing safe
from King Booze and his hordes?”
r T'HE Moomba Committee stuck to its
A decision and the Lord Mayor,
Cr Maurice Nathan, said: “We're an
adult city.” The committee, however,
was more sensitive to criticisms that
the whole festival was barely adult.
So the chairman, Cr A. G. Grant, said
Moomba would include at least five
concerts, featuring classical and light
classical music, two Australian plays,
several international plays, light opera
and two substantial art exhibitions.
The main triumphs of the Moomba
committee will be Johnny O’Keefe’s
rock-'n’-roll Twist session at the Sidney
Myer Music Bowl, the performances
of a teenage ballet company from
New Zealand, and June Bronhiil will
sing the Lord’s Prayer at the Bowl
for a combined Church service.
Of course there will be boating on
the Yarra, the big street procession
with a possible crowd of 750,000,
activities by small culture groups in
the suburbs, the Coburg Ladies’ Pipe
Band, an apron competition and the
dog competition. There will be prizes
for the best-groomed dog, the dog
with the saddest eyes and the most
intellectual looking dog. Maybe the
most intellectual looking dog should
be sent as our representative to the
Adelaide Festival of Arts
BATMAN


RACE PREJUDICE
OR HYGIENE?
FROM KEITH WILLEY IN DARWIN
NITA NABADA
Learning to read
TTlliott is a dusty, ugly, one-street
*~ J hamlet straggling along the Stuart
Highway, half-way between Darwin and
Alice Springs. It is a mild town and no one
expected trouble when the Government
decided that five full-blood aboriginal
children, who formerly had travelled 36
miles daily to the native school at New-
castle Waters, should now go to school
in Elliott where they lived. Why should
there be trouble? Only 200 miles up
the road, at Mataranka, five white child-
ren and six full-bloods had been
integrated in the local school without
any hitches.
But suddenly the parents in Elliott
jacked up. It was not a matter of color
prejudice, they claimed, only of hygiene.
“All these native kids have nits in their
hair,” one said "And how can you tell
what's under the clothes?” (A couple of
years ago parents in the Darwin suburb
of Nightcliff had successfully blocked
plans to send native children from Bagot
Compound to their kindergarten op
similar hygiene grounds.)
Led by James McAdam, 74, and local
Elliot motel proprietor Jim Munckton,
parents signed a petition of protest
against the full-blood pupils. Mr McAdam
said he had lived and worked among
natives for 50 years and regarded them
as children who had to be handled firmly.
“I don’t think they are ready for this
assimilation business,” he said. He added
native women did not know how to
keep their children clean and that there
had been cases of leprosy in the district.
The children not only had “nits in their
hair, but ringworms and other skin
diseases.” He claimed that mixing of
white and native children at schools
would bring the white youngsters down
to the level of the aborigines. “If I
wanted my children to learn how to catch
lizards I’d send them to the blacks’ camp.
They’re not going to send lull-bloods to
school with our kids. As far as I'm
concerned they are still half-tribalised."
He feared his children would learn
“pidgin English” by mixing with abo-
rigines. “The natives cannot talk
whitefella all day at school, then go
back to their camp and speak blackfeila
at night. There has to be a stopping
place somewhere. The children have to
be either black or white.”
Air Munckton’s wife, Mariama, a
Malayan-born Eurasian, said: "Color is
nothing to me, but I’m worried about my
children's health particularly about
trachoma.” The other parent who
objected on health grounds was Mrs
Alolly Freeman, who said she would send
son Barry, 7, to Alice Springs rather than
have him attend school with the natives
at Elliott. She thought there should be
separate toilets and taps for the white
and native children.
The only native to comment on it all
so far has been Beetaloo Bill Wangari,
father of one of the children, Nita
Nabada, 9, who said he would not take
her away from the school whatever
happened. He wanted her to have “a good
education, and learn to read and write."
Beetaloo Bill has worked in the Elliott
district for years, lives in a neat aluminium
house in the native camp, and is probabiv
the most highly respectful full-blood in
the town.
Pressmen who converged on Elliot
said the five native children were clean
and well-dressed. District Welfare Officer
Peter Mackey picked them up at the
camp about an hour before school
started. He took them to his house,
where his wife Sue washed them, made
them clean their teeth, and put them into
“school clothes,” specially bought for the
purpose.
After a three-day boycott, two white
children and a part-colored girl began
attending school with the natives. But
both races played in different sections of
the yard during recess. Otherwise, the
situation was unchanged.
The Administrator, Mr Roger Nott, has
appealed to Elliott parents to give the
new system a fair trial and has promised
that any child—black or white —who
attends school in an unhygienic condition
will be sent home for a cleanup.
Assistant Administrator Mr Reg Marsh,
now on leave, will visit Elliott on his
way back to Darwin soon to look over
the setup. But all Government spokes-
men have been firm that school integra-
tion is here to stay.
Mrs Munckton said she had received
several ‘nasty letters” from interstate,
though none from within the Territory.
Mr McAdam received a protest telegram
from Melbourne University students to
which he replied: "Don't panic. Re-
member Pearl Harbor."
There is no doubt the parents of Elliott
are genuinely concerned on health
grounds. Leprosy is widespread among
aborigines of the Top End (though the
Elliott area is relatively free of it). There
is trachoma, and undoubtedly the un-
hygienic conditions of some native camps
encourage disease. If the Territory is to
succeed as a multi-racial society (.a
problem no southern State has to solve),
the first step must be to clean up the
camps.
EDUCATION
THE SURVEY
'"The Bulletin survey of which we
A told you last week is now com-
pleted and the replies are being pro-
cessed on electronic tabulators. The
response has been greater than we
expected, and some readers rang or
wrote to find out why they were not
asked to fill in the questionnaires.
The answer is simply that the ques-
tionnaires were not in their copies of
The Bulletin. Sorry. We aimed at
getting answers from a cross-
section of readers, not from every
single reader.
It is still too early to try and reduce
all the answers to conclusions. That
is being done, and we will tell you
about the results later on. We can
say that, while nearly everybody
wanted a little more of this or a little
less of that, readers seemed agreed that
The Bulletin was primarily an Aus-
tralian magazine for Australian readers
and should be kept that way. Well, that
suits us, because that is what we have
always believed.
We have not been in the least sur
prised at the places The Bulletin
gets to nor by the variety of people
reading it. We have had answers f-om
-—among others—a sleeper cutter in
the Far West of NSW, a miner in the
Northern Territory and an itinerant
worker in Ceduna (of Stuart case
fame). An American resident filled in
the questionnaire and four Asian
students. One thing which many
people demanded was an index, and
you will find one with a fine Tanner
drawing above it in this issue.


THE HEFFRON I KNOW
From Leninist to Right-wing Premier of N.S.W.
By M. H. ELLIS
I first saw him in September, 1922,
when the newly fledged Australian
Communist party advertised that he
would speak in the Communist Hall,
Sydney, on the subject “What we must
do to be saved.” I knew his name as that
of the “tutor in public speaking to the
Party” and imagined him as a large
Liverpool Irishman who had abandoned
his Deity and who could be depended on
to serve out curry to the ardent defenders
of the faith who were bound to be there,
with the voice of a thwarted bull seal at
mating time. It promised to be an en-
tertaining evening, probably terminating
in the arrival of the police.
Comrade Heffron, however, proved,
on first sight, thoroughly disappointing.
He was about 30 years old, the same size
as Napoleon, only rounder. He distribu-
ted an aura of affection over the whole
audience, including the hard-bitten re-
ligionists who had placed themselves
conveniently near an exit. He looked, in
fact, to be what the French, using the
phrase in its most exact sense, would
call a petit bonhomme.
Facing the hardest collection of
visages this side of Valparaiso ex-
IWW drifters, residents of doorways
on warm nights and of Long Bay
(lodging paid for with broken windows)
on cold nights, ratbags, and cranks who
would have made Praise-God-Barebones
look frivolous —one might have compared
him with the young Pickwick at the
barricades or Billy Bunter coming on in
the role of Torquemada in the school
breaking-up play.
His oratory, when he began to explain
how we could be saved, seemed all of
a piece with his exterior. It lacked the
good, strong bite appreciated in com-
munist circles.
His submissions, wrapped in their
aura of benevolence, were too vague to
be called arguments and too indefinite
to be called persuasions. We refrained
from going to sleep, only because every
now and then he picked up a bit of
savage Leninist blue-metal and heaved
it at us to wake us up.
Eventually, by a process of seepage
or capillary attraction, we soaked in his
message through our skins rather than
through our ears. It was all old stuff,
novel only in that his recipe was infused
with a kindly solicitude foreign to the
normal rendering of the communist
panaceas of those somewhat savage
times.
The feeling for the reassuring novelty
in it still remained with me two months
afterwards, even when I read his message
for Moscow on the occasion of the fifth
anniversary of the October revolution,
which “The Communist” published with
a flourish.
I hoped, in spite of its terms, that when
the dictatorship of the proletariat was
established, as the first step on the road
to pure socialism, Robert J. Heffron
would be the turnkey on duty when I
was tossed into the local Lubianka.
It was obvious that he was sure there
was going to be a Lubianka.
“Only,” it seemed, by “supplanting
the capitalist dictatorship with the pro-
letarian dictatorship, by meeting the
force of White armies with the force of
Red armies, by combating the White
Terror with the Red Terror, by scien-
tifically organising the industrial forces
along the lines of the Red Trade Union
International will we reach the goal of
our dreams along the road to which
Russia is the greatest milestone passed.”
All this was very alarming—unless
you had seen Comrade Heffron and felt
his two kindly hands enfolding your
own.
Then, when you heard him spouting
such sentiments, as he continued to do
for quite a long time, you felt you had
wandered into one of those educational
vacation sessions in which the fifth form
of a High school had been allowed, for
experience in social science, to run the
machinery of the Red Terror for a day.
Almost everybody who came into con-
tact with Mr. Heffron during the years
1922-1941 felt like that about him, no
matter what he might do or say. And
some of the things he did were most
strange.
For instance, in the mid-twenties he
was of those who believed that Lang had
won the State election because all the
graveyards had voted for him and that
the right policy was to “support him as
the rope supports the hanged man.”
But by 1930 he had become the success-
ful Lang party candidate for Botany.
This, however, was scarcely more
paradoxical than the fact that
while a Lang supporter he worked
like a beaver for the Red Inter-
national of Labor Unions (Minority
Movement) in its campaign to in-
dustrialise unionism in the key in-
dustries, particularly fuel, heavy indus-
tries and transport, and to produce the
united-front Government which was to
pave the way to the Red millenium.
TTis own explanations of his progress
in life up to that time are somewhat
vague. They seem to be explained as
follows: He was born on the West Coast
of New Zealand, of parents from Lon-
donderry. He yearned for culture, but
the only literature readily available to
him was Red literature. He yearned for
security and wealth and set out to find
it on the Alaskan goldfields. He came
back to Vancouver gratis under the
luggage of an obliging Chinaman. He
drifted to Australia and spoke some-
where because he thought it would get
him a meal.
Somebody heard that he had been a
“secretary and accountant” in Auckland
and thought he ought to be Assistant
Secretary of the Marine Stewards’ and
Pantrymen’s Union. An obliging fellow,
ho said “Yes”. Then it turned out that
the duties of the assistant secretary in-
cluded support of the Communist party
and help in founding in Australia
those fellow-traveller bodies of the
Comintern, the International Class War
Prisoners’ Aid and the Workers’ Indus-
trial Relief Fund. In process of carrying
out these duties he learnt the worst about
capitalism and at the same time concurred


in the view that reformist union secre-
taries were “offal-fed wallowers” paid by
imperialists. He then acted according
to Cocker Moscow edition, which was
the only one available to him.
In all his proceedings he behaved in
exactly the same way as at the meeting
at which I had first heard him. By
steeping his victims in what seemed to
be an unending stream of gentle wordage,
he soaked them with impressions, firstly
that he was on the right track and
secondly that he was a decent, harmless,
kindly little fellow and a nice change
from the bull seals of the ALP leader-
ship. When, occasionally, he was forced
to utter some horrible Leninism his
audience acted as if it had not heard
aright.
The amazing thing is that, using him
as they did, the people behind him
never seemed to learn his quality, no
matter what their experience of him.
Perhaps luckily for him, neither did his
opponents, who invariably thought the
best of him. His own party was for ever
putting him forward to march in the
van and take the fire, but the enemy
always held its bullets till it could see
the whites of the eyes of the seemingly
bigger game behind.
Events in the years of the Hughes-
Evans group's capture of the New South
Wales ALP Branch in 1937-1940 illus-
trate this point. The Evans-Hughes group
was largely not only communist, but
openly communist. It set out to organise
a united-front Government when Labor
should get into power. In order that
the wrong people should not get hurt in
the assault on the Rightist citadel, it
appointed Comrade Heffron as its Par-
liamentary leader.
In the subsequent battle at the
1940 “Hands off R.ussia” Easter Con-
ference he fully identified himself
with the objectives of the united-front
organisers, i.e., “to defeat the entire
warmongering schemes of the Fascist-
like Menzies Government.” He con-
tributed this to the debate:
The Governments of England and Aus-
tralia had started the war under the pre-
tence that they were fighting Fascism,
but the war was a class war, with the
forces of reaction on the one side and the
forces of progress on the other.
When, however, Messrs Curtin and
Forgan Smith rushed to Sydney to res-
cue the unfortunate Mr McKell, the
leader of the Rightist forces, from the
clutches of the united-fronters, it was
not the leader of what Mr Beasley had
called the “Heffron forces” who was
thrown over the wall onto the spikes.
Virtually all his companions in unity
were either blotted out of the movement,
or (in one or two cases) made an abject
surrender and were kept in outer dark-
ness for a probationary period.
Mr Heffron and his followers, Mr
Clive Evatt and Mr Clarrie Martin and
the rest, being in Parliament, were not
easily got rid of. They were sopped up
into the new McKell Ministry when it
was formed in May, 1941, but given the
posts in which it was hoped that they
would come most easily to ruin. Mr
Clive (“Call me Daddy”) Evatt, for
instance, was presented with the Ministry
for Public Instruction, which had proved
a stopper to many a promising minis-
terial career. For Mr Heffron they de-
vised a new one: “Minister for National
Emergency Services.”
This should have been a real trap for
young players. As with the jobs that had
gone before, Mr Heffron took it with
his accustomed cheerfulness. When he
accepted his office there seemed to be no
work for him to do except to shout
“Don’t! There’s a war on!” every time
some adventurous citizen showed any
signs of acting like a free agent.
A t the next election, he having made
considerable political ground, they
transferred Mr Evatt to Housing and gave
him Public Instruction, which seemed to
be almost a dead-duck ministerially, what
with the war still being on and every-
thing.
Again, he accepted without a murmur,
and it was not long before his startled
colleagues realised why. He showed the
first piece of real initiative of which he
had been guilty in history, by publishing
(at Government expense) a book which
was a facer for all the rest of the Minis-
try, since it proved that Mr Heffron had
done some very original thinking. He had
transformed the Public Instruction Minis-
try from a sodden backwater into a series
of easy stepping stones to power.
He had realised, apparently, the great
truths, hitherto concealed fiom his pre-
decessors, that culture pays ; that parents
are people and voters ; that a few thous-
and teachers are the best kind of election
working force a campaigner for State
office can have behind him ; and that
you can always close the mouth of a
member of the Opposition if you
suddenly offer him a new High school
and allow him to tell his electors that he
persuaded you to do it after a hard fight
The issue of his book which contained
a long-term plan to reorganise libraries,
art galleries, physical education, child
welfare systems, school accommodation
and museums and to create a university of
technology, build a new conservatorium
and an opera house, and rebuild and add
to schools everywhere, marked the transi-
tion from the old Heffron to the new.
In the moment of its publication in
1944 he finally threw the remnants of the
theories of Lenin into the moat and hung
up the new constructive ones of R. J.
Heffron in his armory.
Though his colleagues were alarmed at
his dream of spending £36 million odd
in capital and nearly £lO million more a
year on his new hobbies, amounts which
were not peanuts even as recently as
1944, they realised the general political
value of his dreaming.
There seems to have been some alarm
at the progress in popularity he was
making, and it seemed judicious, when Mr
Cahill, the third Premier under whom he
was to serve, took over as Mr McGirr
was put out to rich grass at Circular
Quay, to place him in a position where
he would do most good for everybody.
He had by that time held office for ten
years.
Therefore, he was chosen as Deputy
Premier. Various aspirants for the prem-
iership who believed that Mr Cahill
would not last too long in office found it
convenient to have him there as seat-
warmer until the time came for them to
box out the preliminaries for the final
challenge round to decide Mr Cahill's
successor. Mr Cahill found it comfort-
able to have him there because he was
under his eye and was always amenable
and had a wonderful manner with depu-
tations. And he himself liked being there
for his own reasons.
He gave, in his new office, an almost
flawless exhibition of how to win friends
and gain influence in politics and of how
to assure oneself the right of succession
to high office and security in it without
rousing the possum in one’s potential foes
or suspicion in the hearts of rivals.
He was genial and affable to all. He
was never caught in intrigue. He did what
he was told. He conciliated cultural
societies and thus gained entree to
circles in which Labor ministers rarely
mixed, and, if they did, uncouthly.
He seemed honestly to enjoy the com-
pany of everybody. He did not asperse his
colleagues. He spoke modestly. Nobody
ever had cause to comment that he was
wearing eight-guinea nylon shirts or that
he had been seen junketing with a mixed
bag of bookies, concrete salesmen and
their like.
The word “graft” left the dictionary at
the mere mention of his name. Caesar’s
wife looked like a spotted wildcat beside
him in his political manifestations. Yet
nobody among his rivals appreciated how
well he had provided for the future until
the sudden demise of his leader.
“Poor old Bob,” the prophets said when
this disaster made him Premier. “He
won’t last long. They'll leave him there
only until they are ready to drop him over
the bannisters.” But whenever anybody
reached out to perform that lethal opera-
tion on him, he, as always throughout his
career, was found behaving like the little
man who wasn’t there in the verse: he
wasn’t there to be thrown. He was
involved in some operation that made it
impossible to do anything to him.
There are even traducers who are


“I don't feel a bit like work today...I think I'll take a sickie ."


willing to believe that he tided over the
most dangerous portion of his novitiate
by deliberately throwing the Legislative
Council abolition issue into the road,
knowing that it would keep the wolves
occupied while he gave his horses a
breather, and that, if the proposal failed
to secure assent, he need not mourn for
it because it was not his brain-child.
Most Labor ministers at 70, after nearly
twenty years in office, might have been
expected to break up under the strain of
a suddenly assumed premiership. Heffron
has not. If anything, he seems refreshed.
He has a solid personal record behind
him in his own chosen sphere of educa-
tion. He has founded his university of
technology and added two colleges to it.
He has backed vast expansions of Sydney
University on the technological and scien-
tific side. He has show'n a liberal attitude
to school reform and expansion, both as
to scope of teaching and extension of
facilities ; this in a period of ballooning
population, ballooning youth numbers
and a w'elter of new needs arising out of
the onset of the nuclear age.
He has created the National Trust
under Statute. He has assured the pre-
servation of many historic buildings
which seemed doomed to ruin and earned
himself thereby an honorary life mem-
bership of the Pioneers’ Club He has
pioneered the annual celebration of
Anniversary Day under the regis of the
State, which holds an official reception
on January 26. The Archives Depart-
ment and the extension of Public Library
facilities throughout the State, are his
babies.
At heart he is the same old Heffron
that I first knew 40 years ago. When he
has time to sit down at a lunch table
tete a tele over a bottle of wine, he is
frankly and honestly anecdotal about his
early adventures and youthful political
indiscretions. He is always benevolent ;
rarely speaks ill of his enemies. Most of
those who are out to beat him in the
current election campaign place him in a
different category to the rest of his curious
and disparate party.
Even in the eyes of bitter political
opponents he is still acknowledged to be
the same benign, if astute, petit bonhomme
he always was. He has been in Parlia-
ment 32 years. Paradoxically, the only
people who seem to have any acerbitous
feeling towards him are those of his
own side who have for years been trying
to waylay him on the stair in the interests
of their own advancement and who have
invariably found he wasn’t there when
they wanted to heave him over the rail.
The only comfort now left to them is
that he will be 72 on September
10. But that fact will do them little
immediate good if he wins and less if he
is defeated.
CANBERRA
REVISITED
Cold Feet and Hot Seats
By ROBERT KENNEDY
The first impression on revisiting
Canberra after 18 months is the
markedly different atmosphere
surrounding some sections of the
Public service. This has been brought
about by a field day (or days) for the
lobbyists following the electoral avalanche
of last December 9. The Government
quite properly decided that the devastat-
ing vote meant that they’d better call to
Canberra for discussion and advice a
cross-section of the business life of the
nation. This achieved its object, and
certainly did much to shake up the torpid
liver of the Treasury. However, it has
had its less useful aspects.
So great has been the flurry in the
Government benches that a lot of minor
lobbyists who, in the past, have been sent
about their business with the speed they
merit, are finding themselves not only
listened to, but encouraged. It’s a little
hard to sift the grain from the chaff from
talking to the senior Public servants.
They cynically regard much of the
activity in the Government as political
posturing—at the best, a half-truth. How-
ever, there is no doubt that in the post-
election frenzy a number of Government
members are suffering from cold feet and
the feeling that they are in hot seats.
In its way, as I have said, this is not a
bad thing. But it can be carried too far.
One browned-off Public servant told me:
“In the last couple of months I’ve had to
spend time on matters which wouldn’t
have got file space in the back of the
‘Unwanted’ cupboard last year.” Another
said: “Anybody who has a barrow to
push is pushing it in Canberra today-
even if the wheel is wobbly and the con-
tents fit only for the compost heap.” (He
didn’t actually say “compost” but I’m a
pure fellow).
Politically, the whole joint is jumping.
Labor, which went out like a lamb last
November, came back like a lion
refreshed last week. The Government
parties, a little bewildered by it all, are
rallying strongly. Some of them main-
tain : “If we went to the polls tomorrow,
we’d win, because it was a protest vote
which wouldn’t happen again that nearly
beat us.”
In all. it’s going to be a knock-down-
drag-out session which nobody should
miss. If you can go to Canberra to see
some of it, you should.
But as well as the frenzy today there
is also the growth. It even has a touch
of strumpetry about it, with gold
columns on the Civic Hall and exotic
architecture exploding right and left.
Let’s look at the growth first and the
frenzy last.. . It’s easy to sneer at
the amount of money being spent in
Canberra to ensure that everything built
is of the best quality. It's easy to draw
harsh comparisons with the fate of less
fortunate mortals in other towns and
cities. But are the sneers, the comparisons
fair?
For better or for worse, we're caddied
with Canberra as a national capital—
and, as such, it’s proper it should look
good, like a capital should. As well,
it’s a poor piece of reasoning that holds
it proper to build one place piecemeal
and with patches and make-do just
because other places have been built
that way. The builders of Canberra have
a magnificent opportunity to build a
city from the bottom up. and they’re
hard at it. Mistakes have been made,
mistakes will be made, I have no doubt,
but overall the effect is shatteringly
effective.
Apart from the splendor of buildings,
and the excellence of the new roads and
bridges, the rate of growth is breath-
catching. Driving into the city, I saw
rows and rows and rows of houses
and flats which just weren't there 18
months ago. When I left in 1960, work
had just begun on the new King’s
Avenue Bridge. Now it's finished (ex-
cept for some minor work on approaches
to one lane) and is a magnificent struc-
ture, with perfect proportions. As well,
work is well ahead on a new Common-
wealth Bridge, which will look perhaps
even better than the King’s. Both of
them are being built high above the dry
shores of the Molonglo, ready for the
lake which will fill the flood plain
beneath quite soon.
Nobody is quite certain when the lake
will fill—work is going on with the dam
and gates which will bank the Molonglo
into the lake which Griffin envisaged


FACTS
speak louder
than
Heffron!
The feeble Heffron Government
stands condemned before the
people. Here are some of the
legacies of Labor rule:—
I£2i million wasted on the abandoned
Sandy Hollow-Maryvale Railway.
2 Nearly £1 million lost in interest and
deterioration since the Eastern Suburbs
Railway works were suspended.
3£l million down the hole in the Chalmers
Street Station fiasco.
4£l million compensation for cancelled
orders on unsuitable locomotives.
5 The best part of £1 million lost on the
Government's tileworks.
YOU CAN PUT AN END TO THIS SCAN -
DALOUS WASTE AND INEFFICIENCY .
ASKIN'S LIBERAL POLICY OFFERS YOU
A DYNAMIC PROGRAMME AND THE
MEANS TO CARRY IT OUT.
On March 3 Vote for
ASKIN’S
LIBERAL TEAM
uthorised by J. L. Carrick, THE LIBERAL PARTY OF AUSTRALIA
LP1027-16
when he planned the city—but its effects
are already apparent. Royal Canberra
Golf Club has its marching orders and
will have moved out by November when,
apparently, the lake will start to take
over part of the course. Not that Royal
Canberra will suffer in the result. It has
been given a site in the pines of West-
bourne Woods which, according to inter-
national experts, will become one of the
finest championship courses in the world.
The clubhouse at Royal Canberra,
long a meeting place of importance in
the social and behind-the-scenes-
manoeuvring of the city, will be of im-
posing proportions on its new site —
worth above £50,000 it would seem,
though tenders are only now being
called.
The Japanese Embassy has been built,
and the Italian Embassy is half-built.
Oddly, work on it has stopped (nobody
seems quite to know why) and Dr Enrico
Taglietti, the supervising architect, has
packed up and gone—presumably home
to Italy.
The Hotel Canberra, often called the
King’s Hall annex because of all the
Parliamentary business conducted there,
is undergoing a major facelift, with half
its rooms closed while every one of them
is equipped with private bath and other
refinements. When the one half is re-
modelled, the other half will be closed
for the same treatment.
The dapper Mr Thornley Thorpe,
who runs the place with aplomb and
manages to tread a tightwire of diplomacy
and politics with bright-eyed guile and
an ability to disappear magically when
his built-m antennae warn him to, told
me: “Everybody seems to think we’re
carrying out our remodelling to a plan
carefully designed to cause the maximum
inconvenience to everybody, but it’s not
so. When we’re finished, we’ll have one
of the finest hotels in the land.”
'T'his is the spirit which pervades Can-
berra. Everything is, or will be, the
finest in the land. Even the cheaper
houses are functional, not unattractive,
and of course they’re all sewered, with
kerbed and guttered roads. Since I was
there, the Red Hill High School is at
work, and the Dixon High School will
be open in a month or so.
In my 18 months away, the population
has increased by a staggering 8000 to
more than 60,000 and about 2000 houses
and flats have sprung up.
The odd sidelight presents itself here
and there: a well-known member of the
Press Gallery has swapped his 1952
Holden for a Mercedes-Benz since I last
saw him ... but the bartender at the
Canberra Rex’s sleek cocktail bar told
me tips weren’t so good . . . and the spec,
builders, who found themselves in dire
straits as a result of having built too
many houses in the 1960 boom, have
been saved by a bigger-than-expected
influx of diplomats and well-heeled senior
Public servants.
The Tariff Board has moved up from
Melbourne and has built itself a big new
building to house itself and also to
accommodate Board hearings in the
future.
This is an obvious symptom of the
other big change in Canberra since I was
there. More and more, it is becoming the
centre to which people—leaders of
industry and commerce, tycoons, labor
leaders—will have to go when they want
something. The Tariff Board, for
instance, has never held hearings in Can-
berra. Now, hundreds of businessmen,
advocates, and industrialists who've never
been near the place, except for fleeting
visits, will find themselves required to
stay there for longish periods. It won’t
do them any harm —and it will probably
do Canberra the world of good.


FORUM
COLIN SIMPSON'S
TWENTY QUESTIONS
Does Mr Hasluck Know the Answers?
of all aborigines and part-aborigines is the policy of the
Commonwealth Government and the States. In New South Wales
assimilation was written into the Act in 1939. It has been the nationally
accepted policy since 1931.
This policy is based on two assumptions which l am unable without
further information to accept. They are:
(a) That the assimilation policy is the best policy for all concerned,
and so it should succeed.
(b) That if there is acceptance of the aborigines (in terms of the mean-
ing of the assimilation policy) then the policy can succeed.
Before l can decide whether these assumptions are justified I feel that
l need answers to the following 20 questions.
1. What is the basis of the assumption
that most aboriginal and part-aborigi-
nal people will want to be assimiliated?
2. Has assimilation been adopted as
the policy mainly because assimilation
is regarded as the only alternative to
segregation— and L, therefore, regarded
as the only respectable policy we could
adopt?
3. Is it not possible to have a policy
that does not insist on assimilation (yet
still allows aboriginal-blooded people
who want to assimilate to be assisted
to do so) but which rules out segregation
by giving the aboriginal people a status,
that simply does not allow them to be
set apart (segregated) by us, but allows
and assists them to be a part in their own
community groups if they want to be —a
policy that does not expect them to live
“in the same manner” as us but to live,
if they want to, rather differently, to the
extent that this “difference” is not in-
imical to the community at large?
4. In pursuance of the assimilation
policy it is the practice in New South
Wales to attract individual families from
part-aboriginal groups to occupy houses,
built for them for rent or pur-
chase, within country towns. Yet
the Principal of the School of
Pacific Administration, Mr. C. D.
Rowley, an authority who can be expec-
ted to know what he is talking about, has
said, “If you attempt to attract indi-
vidual families away from their com-
munities, you are not going to bring
r PHE new 1962 edition of Colin
Simpson’s “Adam in Ochre”
contains an additional contro-
versial chapter, which we here re-
print, questioning the nationally
accepted policy of assimilation of
the aborigines. He doubts whether
the policy is either practicable or
desirable.
about advancement to the extent you
would if you try to work through the
community itself.” Who is right?
5. Is Mr Rowley right in saying: “One
of the misfortunes in Australia is that
the British Colonial Government did
not do as it had done in some
other countries set aside for na-
tives inviolable reserves which they
could develop as their own. In
the United States efforts have been
made in recent years to reverse the
policy of forced assimilation (of the
American Indians) by returning to the
Indians land which will provide them
with a solid economic base for the de-
velopment of their own communities . . .
the extreme difficulty every (Australian)
aboriginal welfare administration has
faced is that treaties giving natives an
economic base . . . have not operated
in Australia”?
6. If that statement is as correct as
it seems to me to be, is not the assimila-
tion policy or any other comparable
policy of aboriginal advancement likely
to fail not, primarily, because of non-
acceptance of the aborigines (or non-
acceptance by the aborigines, or non-
acceptance by the community, of the
policy itself) but because the policy has
no such “economic base”?
7. Might we not have to return to the
ownership of the aboriginal people, com-
munally, either the reserve lands they are
on or other lands sufficient for their
needs, and assist them to develop these
lands, in order to provide a base for
any repectable and acceptable policy for
their future?
8. As there is undeniable evidence of
anti-white attitudes among many of the
part-aborigines and some of the abor-
igines, to what extent are these anti-
pathies due to a feeling that they have
been dispossessed and disinherited of
lands which “belonged” to their abo-
riginal ancestors and which they feel
should be theirs by right?
9. Why do so many part-aborigines
not want to live on Government stations
and reserves in New South Wales, and
why do they not only prefer to live in
squalor on the outskirts and river-banks
of towns, but actually despise the ones
who take houses on Government settle-
ments?
10. Are there induced psychological
reasons such as are known to motivate
resistance-behaviors of people under
stress —feelings of inferiority, cultural
conflict and economic disadvantage—
for the instability and improvidence, the
lack of ambition and the alcoholism
many part-aborigines exhibit? Do not
the causes of these traits and habits lie
here, rather than “in their nature”?
Since these kinds of behavior clearly
stand in the way of such people’s “ac-
ceptance” by the community at large,
is it not essential that trained investiga-
tors discover what the reasons are, and
whether and how they are removable?
11. Are there racial traits of both
aboriginal-blooded and white Australians
which, while they do not provide a valid
reason for racial discrimination, may
still conceivably limit their close associa-
tion in a single community? (For in-
stance, there is some evidence that each


finds the body odor of the other most
unpleasant; but there has been no con-
clusive investigation of this.)
12. Why, in the “Methods of Advan-
cing the Policy” is there no mention of
adult education, particularly as so many
adult aborigines and part-aborigines are
still illiterate or nearly so?
13. And why is there no mention of
local government, at least in relation
to the more literate groups? When the
famous British biologist Julian Huxley
said in Sydney in 1953 that our abor-
igines should run their own local affairs,
was he talking nonsense?
14. Does the Commonwealth Govern-
ment —which must speak for Australia
on the matter of advancement of our
aborigines and answer the questions of
United Nations agencies (and may well
have the matter brought up to it in UNO
in connection with our competency in
New Guinea) —really believe that the
State Governments are prepared „o
spend the money and provide the staff
to do what ought to be done to give the
aboriginal people an adequate New
Deal? Is it realised how poorly paid
and inadequately trained are the field
officers on whom so much depends—and
has it been considered how they will ever
be properly trained or properly paid un-
less the Commonwealth trains them and
subsidises salaries beyond what the
State's Public Service Boards are pre-
pared to sanction?
15. Is there any good reason why a
School of Aboriginal Welfare and Ad-
vancement should not be set up as an
adjunct to the School of Pacific Adminis-
tration to train the administrators arid
field officers of aboriginal policy in the
States as well as in the Northern Terri-
tory?
16. Must the culture of a good Aus-
tralian society be an utterly homo-
geneous one? And does the assimilation
policy envisage the disappearance of
aboriginal people's appreciation of and
pride in aspects of their own culture
which could, if preserved by them, en-
rich their lives and enrich our whole
society, and not be inimical to it?
17. Is a uniform assimilation policy, in
any case, applicable to an apparently
non-uniform people? Mr Hasluck said
in 1952: “Miscegenation and the mating
of half-caste with half-caste are pro-
ducing a people who are racially distinct
from the full-blood, and who have in
many cases a pronounced consciousness
of their difference. In general, the mixed-
blood person is finding it easier than the
full-blood to adjust himself to the life
of the general Australian community,
but at the same time he has a keener
sensitivity and stronger resentments to
complicate his adjustment.” The Minis-
ter said (in 1952) that “ much detailed
investigation’’ of the mixed-bloods’ con-
dition was necessary. When is this to be
done?
18. What about miscegenation, any-
way? Genetically and socially, in regard
to Australoid and European, is it to be
regarded as desirable or undesirable?
Is not this aspect of assimilation being
avoided and glossed over by the Govern-
ments concerned, and is not the general
community confused and given to form-
ing attitudes that have no better basis
than racial tolerance or intolerance? Very
little miscegenation is going on at present
but the processes of the assimilation policy
would appear to encourage its happen-
ing in the future. Mr Elasluck said, a
year after the 1951 adoption of the as-
similation policy by all Governments:
“Whether biological assimilation goes
hand-in-hand with cultural assimilation
is a matter which time will reveal, but
my own guess is that if cultural assimila-
tion occurs mating will naturally fol-
low.” In the same speech the Minister
said: “I suggest that there is today a
tendency to under-estimate breed . . .
Race is, of course, both a biological
and a social fact. In talking of race we
are talking of readily perceptible dif-
ferences among human beings. We want
to know exactly what these differences
are and whether they affect the course
of social change and, if so, in what
way.” This statement seems to me to
bear significantly on the question of
miscegenation. Have we embarked on
this assimilation policy without suffi-
cient consideration of its long-range
implications in regard to a matter on
which Governments have no definite
opinion? Or is the UNESCO inquiry's
finding of 1950 (“There is no evidence
that racial intermarriage produces bio-
logically bad results”) accepted?
19. Is not the present method of
financing any policy of aboriginal ad-
vancement likely to prove inadequate to
the task, especially in the States, while
the expenditure is dependent on what
the State Governments can get from the
Loan Council and their own assessments
of how much they should spend on this
problem from what they are granted
from Consolidated Revenue; and is it
not necessary to create, say, an Abor-
iginal Advancement Fund, with a loan
from the World Bank or with finance
from national revenues, Commonwealth-
administered, the moneys from it being
made available to the States according
to their needs, for this specific purpose?
20. As educability is fundamental to
any policy of advancement, as educa-
bility is regarded as an index of intelli-
gence—and in view of the dissemination
of such conflicting statements as “Abo-
riginal children are devoid of any desire
to learn” ; “They learn all right up to a
certain stage and then they fall away” ;
and “In aboriginal schools, social depri-
vation and a depressed economic and
educational enviroment are the major
reasons for retardation, rather than low
intelligence'’ (A. T. Duncan) —is it not a
prerequisite to the acceptance of any
policy by the community that authorita-
tive research should determine and make
known the facts about aboriginal educa-
bility and intelligence?
'Those “twenty questions" are, I know,
really more than twenty. But Ministers
are surely entitled to a much broader base
of information for policy making and
policy guidance than there is at present.
They are too often denied the funds and
executive staff to organise and set up the
“machinery" to produce such knowledge.
In order to avoid charges of being
inactive they may be virtually forced into
laying down policy routes in areas insuffi-
ciently explored, or into continuing
existent policies that are as blatantly out-
dated and inadequate as the “Protection”
policy was for the aborigines.
The only thing the aborigines ever had
that we regarded as being of value was
their land. The fact that we developed
and made infinitely better use of the land
is beside the point and the principle. We
certainly left them use and tenancy of
some lands that were of not much use to
us —but even these our Government put,
and have kept, under the Crown. We
took the lot —the whole 2,974,581 square
miles of it, the whole 1.903,731,840 Aus-
tralian acres.
Certainly we are in process of extend-
ing to them health services, education,
training, opportunities of employment,
social services and civil rights.
But these are no more than are
extended to all other members of the
community as a matter of course.
What about material rights and rights
of the spirit?
So many of their descendants have been
forced into what Professor Elkin well
describes as a state of “intelligent parasi-
tism”. This is no more than is to be
expected as a kind of Resistance Move-
ment against the unthinking oppression of
the human spirit by an Occupying Power
that, however benevolent its intentions,
says to these people, in effect,“Our ways
shall be your ways because ours are good
and yours are worthless. We are prepared
to give you everything we want you to
have. If you are prepared to do as we
say and do as we do, we shall try to get
our people to accept you. We know what
is best for you, so it is unnecessary to ask
you whether this is what you want. You
have everything to gain by accepting our
plans for you and nothing to lose, because
you have nothing that we regard as being
of value.”


LETTERS
BREAD BEFORE FREEDOM
Sir,
I trust that you have sufficient integrity
to publish the enclosed letter.
Your Canberra correspondent (Bulle-
tin, February 10) is a liar. The occasion
I refer to is the story on Australian Insti-
tute of Political Science Summer School
held in Canberra over the Australia Day
weekend. That you published his (or her?)
lies will not surprise many readers who
follow, in any way, your coverage of the
Australian political scene. What may
interest them, however, is the proof of
his mendacity and your low ethical
standards in reproducing the report to
bolster your tediously created Bulletin
line on the ALP.
Your correspondent in the second
paragraph, in five instances, purports to
quote my actual statements to the
Summer School. I did i.ot make any of
these alleged statements — a fact which is
confirmed by the tape-recorder operated
on the platform by the organisers of the
school.
My remarks had to be perverted by
your correspondent to make them fit his
quite unjustified attempt to portray me
as a preacher of class war. The perver-
sion was also necessary to make any
sense of the, in fact, thoroughly ludicrous
representation of my contribution as
being part of some internal political
squabble, with Gough Whitlam and my-
self as antagonists. (In retrospect, the
very cordial half-hour conversation be-
tween Gough and myself on the morn-
ing following my contribution to the
Summer School assumes amusing pro-
portions in the light of your corres-
pondent's fantasy.)
In putting forward my thesis at the
Summer School I was indeed critical, no
doubt hurtful to some, but I hope —
certainly this was the intention —
essentially constructive. The exposition
of this thesis is, however, not presently
important. To those who may be
interested it will appear soon in the book
of the proceedings to be published by
the AIPS —and your readers may then
judge for themselves your worth and
that of your Canberra correspondent.
In conclusion, may I suggest, Sir, that
you should really learn the truth of your
own words—are they any more than
words to you? —on p. 17 of the same
issue of The Bulletin : . the untrue
arguments used by their opponents mean
that in those who most profess to uphold
liberal ideas there is an inbuilt dis-
honesty, a self-righteous double standard
that itself fouls liberal ideas.”
R. J. HAWKE
ACTU Building,
Carlton ( Victoria )
Our Canberra correspondent writes: “I have
checked my notes with those taken by many
others present at the Summer school and, while
there is disagreement about the exact words
used, all confirm the substantial accuracy of
my account of the content and tone of Mr
Hawke’s remarks. In a few weeks’ time,
when the papers are published in book form,
interested readers will be able to judge for
themselves. Meanwhile, they can take the tone
of Mr. Hawke’s letter as a fair illustration of
the tone of his address.” —Ed.
TAKE IT OR LEAVE IT
Sir,
Nobody, I think, would dispute Mr
David Williams’s complaint (Bulletin,
February 10) that low pay for actors and
artists starves commercial TV of talent
and consequently of good productions.
I felt only despair when, in pre-TV
1955, a commercial radio executive told
me with a straight face that commercial
TV would have a head start in Australia
because of its experience in doing shows
on shoestring budgets. Unfortunately,
one of the troubles with commercial TV
is that it carries the burden of its seedy
parentage.
But the real handicap is its inability to
lay its hands on the kind of money
needed for the lavish expenditure deman-
ded for high class television productions.
The nationals suffer from the same handi-
cap and, within the limitations imposed,
sometimes pull off a miracle.
The truth is that TV was crippled at
birth in Australia. Conditions are differ-
ent, as Mr Williams's friends told him.
No real basis for comparison with the
British system exists. Only one com-
mercial channel operates alongside the
BBC in each region there. The BBC and
the powerful commercial companies
operating under the Independent Tele-
vision Authority serve an enormous view-
ing public of 30,000,000.
At rates of at least £lOOO a minute,
the commercial companies reap profits
from advertising that grow more embar-
rassing every year. Advertising revenue
in 1959 topped £40.000,000 (sterling).
Associated Television, one of the London
operators, made a profit of £5,316,500
(the pittance it handed out to “the arts
and sciences,” Mr Williams, was £26,000).
Associated Rediffusion, another London
giant, showed a profit of £7.133,948. That
was after incurring the fabulous costs of
producing big-star live shows—£lo,ooo
for a two-hour production of “The
Master Builder”, with an international
cast, is one that comes to mind. Not that
British commercial telly hasn’t done its
bit towards spawning the flick-knife
Teddy gang cult.
Contrast that with the situation in Aus-
tralia. I don’t know whether figures on
the profits of commercial TV stations are
available. But it is enough to remind
Mr Williams that in the capital cities
alone no less than 14 television stations
share out a metropolitan population of
only 5,650,000 The addition of nearer
country viewers doesn’t materially alter
the argument. The total of licensed sets
is still less than 1,500,000.
In the face of these basic facts, how can
we escape the conclusion that commercial
TV in Australia, at least, is stuck with
vintage films, imported features and sub-
standard, under-rehearsed shows, and
that the nostalgic exiles in London will
have to continue sweating it out.
R. O'BRIEN
Ashburton (Victoria)
“SPECULATOR” SHOULD WORK
Sir,
One copy of The Bulletin, unfortu-
nately having gone astray for some reason
and for some time, has recently turned
up. I say unfortunately because I should
have liked to have written a few words
before. I refer to the issue dated August
5, last, and to “Spectulator’s Diary” on
page 45, the first three paragraphs.
I must be getting old-lashioned but
there was a time, 1 can remember it and
thrived on it, when the real Aussie used
an axe, shears and other useful imple-
ments but very seldom his tongue, but
apparently the latter has its use now.
For “Speculator's" information Marley
Tile is a business producing very neces-
sary articles and I feel sure that the chair-
man of this company must have been
very impressed when he received the
“few words" from a gentleman who had
bought 132 shares, not to obtain an
interest in the company but in the hope
that he might earn a few paltry unpro-
ductive shillings. It would be better for
“Speculator” and people like him to go
up country and do some useful work.
For my part I suggest that as “Specu-
lator” feels so badly he sticks to shares
nearer home so that he won't have to
worry so much about getting things off
his manly chest.
J. WILKINS
Devon (UK)
SILLY SEASON
Sir,
This letter is written in reference to an
article by Adrian Rawlins (Bulletin,
February 10).
The jazz convention to which Mr Raw-
lins refers was a Festival of Jazz spon-
sored by the Peninsula Jazz Club. The
Peninsula Jazz Club is a non-profit, non-
political undenominational club provid-
ing a place for the teenagers of the Penin-
sula with good quality entertainment of a
Saturday night. The club has over 4500
members, and is held high in esteem by
the elders of Frankston... we suggest
you check with the Shire Council on
this. Mr Rawlins makes out that the
convention was staged by commercial
promoters. We can assure you it was not.
And the following comments should con-
vince fair-minded people of the fact.
The takings of the convention were
distributed in the following manner.
Expenses amounted to £415; this included
the payment of eleven top-line jazz bands.
£2OO was donated to the Menzies Home
for Children, Frankston. £175 was
donated to the Junior Chamber of Com-
merce, Frankston, to further the success
of the Australia Day Celebrations in
Frankston next year. The club made


£144 on the night and this will be used
to further jazz at the club.
Mr Rawlins is apparently a jazz fan,
but he certainly does not check on facts
before he writes his articles.
(a) He states that the police closed
the convention. Correction. The police
suggested to the club that the convention
should be closed before any more
violence broke out. At this stage the dis-
turbing element had left the grounds and
the convention continued until every
band scheduled to play had played.
(bj He states that it was spuriously
titled an “Open Air Jazz Convention”
and that it was not a convention but a
cleverly publicised concert arranged by
commercial promoters.
Correction. The title “Open Air Jazz
Convention” does apply to this function,
(i) It was in the open air. (ii) It was
jazz ... by 11 of Melbourne’s leading jazz
bands, (iii) It was a convention . . .con-
vention meaning an assembly often held
periodically for the one purpose. This
was an assembly of people interested in
the one thing .. . jazz.
(c) The jazz posters on city walls were
posted by indiscreet members of the club.
It was unfortunate that this was done but
it was. The posters’ typeface and layout
were not identical with that used to adver-
tise last year’s convention held in the
Kew Civic Centre.
(d) He states that this was obviously a
cunning ploy by the promoters to cash-in
on the publicity and prestige of the real
jazz convention —but it backfired.
Correction. To use the term cash in, the
club did this with no backfiring. We did
not use the prestige or publicity of the
Australian convention. Our publicity
was the bands that appeared on the
night. As explained, over two-thirds of
the profits were donated to charity.
(e) The only correct statement through-
out his article is the paragraph on bad
behavior.
May we state here that the bad
behavior did not come from the 2400
jazz fans who paid their way into the con-
vention, but was restricted to a pack of
youths, no more than 50 in number. The
bad behavior did not commence until
about 10 p.m. and the trouble makers
had left the grounds by 10.45 p.m.
So it seems that Mr Rawlins just did
not know what he was talking about.
And that the damage he did himself to
the jazz scene is irreparable, and we
suggest he rewrite the article with a small
light of fact as his theme.
How does Mr Rawlins think that the
Australian Jazz Convention should be the
only jazz convention? We are trying to
further jazz by holding what we hope to
make into an annual event on the Penin-
sula. Next year precautions will be taken
to prevent a re-occurrence of this year’s
fiasco. And, for us to read such an article,
after the effort put into it, is rather heart-
breaking.
C. H. JONES
Hon. Secretary.
Peninsula Jazz Club
Frankston (Victoria)
WHAT’S WRONG WITH WATTS
Sir,
The letters by A. P. Negus (Bulletin,
January 20 and February 17) contained
little rational argument, but leave the
impression that Mr Negus became
annoyed after reading a review of
“What’s Wrong With the Church?”
(Bulletin, January 1), or after attending
a WEA class in 1960, or after reading
the name of G. Stuart Watts.
Apparently this emotion cannot be
expressed in logical discussion ; certainly
the emotion must be intense. Otherwise
Mr Negus would surely have apologised
for his personal attack (based on state-
ments that Watts did not make in his
book review and would hardly have been
silly enough to make in a debate).
Perhaps this “denial of the principle
of contradiction” is closer to home than
Mr Negus realises. However, I venture
the following comments on what Watts
did say:
1. He devoted one paragraph to what
is wrong with the Church and 50 per
cent, of his review to what is right with
it. Since the satisfactory features re-
ceived only two-and-a-half pages in a
156-page book, the review was mislead-
ing to the reader who thought that the
review paralleled the book.
2. He omitted to mention that the
author spent a year at Union Theological
Seminary in New York and that his argu-
ments are familiar to those acquainted
with the American “social gospel.”
3. He complains that “the traditional
proofs of theism are now in ruins.” But
they have been in that state since Kant
demolished the ontological argument 180
years ago, and I feel that Mr Watts
would have a stronger position if he
dismissed these “proofs” as vestiges of
rationalism.
4. Finally, he misinterprets the book
when he protests that the Church’s intel-
lectual efforts will require more, rather
than less, Greek. The author did not
advocate lower standards for cleiical
academics. He suggested (pp. 151-153)
that a classical education (“more Greek”)
was not necessarily an asset for parish
priests, and that a lowering of their edu-
cational requirements might enlarge the
priest supply. This enlargement was to
be in addition to (not at the expense of)
the remaining gentlemen in the Heaven
and real estate business.
M. VAGG
Brighton-le-Sands (NSW)
P.S. Might I suggest to both Mr Watts
and Mr Negus that they read “What’s
Wrong With the Church?” It’s an
interesting book.
SIDNEY NOLAN
Sir,
Robert Hughes’s letter accusing
Bernard Hesling of conducting an on-
slaught on Sidney Nolan and indulging
in “adipose servility” towards William
Dobell is completely baffling (Bulletin.
February 17). Having just read Hesling's
pieces on both men I am mystified. It
seems impossible that a person of Mr
Hughes’s intelligence could so perversely
blinker himself in this manner. As a
matter of fact Dobell could have easily
taken offence at Hesling’s description of
him as a scared man who never really
wanted to paint. On the other hand,
Hesling hailed Nolan as an undisputed
genius. Mr Hughes rudely states that
Hesling is incapable of criticism. This
may or may not be true but at no time in
either article did Hesling set himself up
as an art critic. Surely the boot is on
the other foot and it is Mr Hughes who
is revealing “adipose servility” towards
Nolan. Mr Hesling, our Boswellian
Thurber, has dared to be amusing at the
expense of one of Mr Hughes’s private
gods—so he must be slapped down. Back
to your brushes, Mr Hughes.
LEO KELLY
Heathcote (NSW)
SA ARTS INQUIRY
Sir,
With reference to the gratuitous slur
of Max Harris in referring to me as “a
writer of library fiction” (Bulletin,
February 17). Whether my novels come
under that heading is for posterity to
decide. Mr Harris may be unaware that
articles of mine have appeared in leading
scientific journals, or that my short
stories have been published in overseas
magazines in which his work has yet to
appear.
He quotes only part of my suggestion
to the SA Arts Inquiry. In advocating
that Australian periodicals should be
compelled to use equal numbers of
syndicated American and original Aus-
tralian short stories, I pointed out that
Australian radio and TV stations are
supposed to use a sizeable proportion of
Australian scripts, as directed by the
Broadcasting Control Board.
That suggestion was made on behalf
of colleagues who are definitely not “well
content with their lot.” How can they
be when the majority of the short stories
published in Australia are imported?
H. A. LINDSAY
Highgate (SA)
Sir,
Max Harris (Bulletin, February 17)
was right on the ball about Premier
Playford’s notorious blindspot about
culture.
After his policy speech at Woodside
Institute in the current State election
campaign, Playford was asked by an
elector to comment on the disgraceful
state of the public library. He told the
questioner that plans for a new library
were being investigated by the Public
Works Committee.
Plans there have been for some years
now but the Arts Enquiry Committee
report Max Harris was discussing con-
jectures that when something is finally
done, whenever that is, there is no
assurance that provision will be generous.
In fact if Playford gets back this time,
the betting is strongly that the same old
totally inadequate building will be still
doing the job in 1970.
S. V. ERICKSON
Helmsdale (SA )


LIFE IN THE VILLAGE
it's the "Rose Bud" versus the "Green House" in Double Bay.
By DON BASS
ouble Bay is unique in Sydney.
D People from South Yarra and
Toorak would feel rather much at
home there at first, as might
visitors from summer villages on Cape
Cod or in the south-east of England. But
after the first shock of recognition, as the
differences began to show, these same
people would be quite puzzled. How
could a place be so familiar, yet so
strange?
If you can imagine yourself to be such
a visitor, sitting on the shady verandah
of your host's modest home in Glendon
Rd and trying to couple your surround-
ings with, shall we say, the Rose Bud
florist shop, you have some puzzling
moments ahead.
Glendon Rd is an average, unexciting
suburban street, with a very settled look
about it. The houses have stood at
least 30 years. Any of their families
could include two or three children, a dog
and cat, one or two aged grandparents
who probably own or have owned the
home, and, if the collective word can
embrace an inanimate but vital member,
an older Holden or a Zephyr.
How to relate this to the Rose Bud in
the nearby shopping centre, with its
window crammed with fine arrangements
of dried wheat stalks in fat, long necked
bottles ; bowls of driftwood and dried
leaves and flowers, with or without a little
stuffed bird ; vases of dried and dyed
reeds ; and weathered branches with green
vines climbing on them?
Or, for that matter, to relate any of
the residential parts of Double Bay to
its menswear shops, the Village Toggery,
the Playboy Shop, the Squire Shop, and
those too distingue to have any name at
all?
Then, if your mind flicks to another
scene, you are really in trouble, because
this is Woolworths’ Green House, and
women whose practical aspect suggests
they would shudder at the very sight of
the Rose Bud are busily snapping up
bargain staghorns at 3s. lid. each.
Are their sons being togged at the
Village Toggery, or their daughters coiff-
ured at Coiffure Caron? To return home
immaculate and remark, “Oh no, Mother,
not another steg-horn! ” Before incipient
dramatists rush to Double Bay to catch
the great Australian middle-class conflict
in such a promising setting, perhaps we
should look at the Big Picture?
The southern shore of Sydney Harbor
is scalloped with bays and their points -
Woolloomooloo, Potts Point, Rush-
cutter Bay, Darling Point, Double Bay,
Point Piper, Rose Bay, Vaucluse,
Watsons Bay. The points were always
preferred places to build and live, offering
views and rock foundations. The bay
land was either very sandy, as at Rose
Bay, or loamy and apt to be flash-flooded,
as at Double Bay. Behind it are the
steep slopes of Edgecliff, the deep gully
below Woollahra, and the cliffs of Belle-
vue Hill. The road to high Vaucluse
passed through those suburbs in carriage
days, skirting around and above sleepy
Double Bay. With the coming of the elec-
tric tram, a more direct route was
required, The tracks were laid in a new
South Head Rd which passed through
Double Bay and Rose Bay.
New South Head Rd and its shopping
centre split Double Bay in two. On the
inland half are the modest homes of com-
paratively recent building. On the bay
half are some much older and originally
grander homes, including many of two
storeys with up to 10 acres of grounds
containing big, old trees. There are also
island clusters of little brown weather-
board cottages, and occasional blocks of
flats, some brick, some in the stucco
cement and yellow-wash style favored in
the late 20s and early 30s. Some of the
streets in this bayside half are lined with
fairly decrepit one and two-storey houses,
many divided into flats.
So much for the layout. The bayside
half of Double Bay has old mansions
and funny little cottages. In the one you
can peer through a fence and see white
haired Mother and Father taking tea on a
flagged veranda, and, in the other, Mum
and Dad, equally snowy, reading in rock-
ing chairs on their wooden verandah,
oblivious to the crowd sounds inside and
outside the adjacent Royal Oaks Hotel.
In contrast, the inland half of Double
Bay has suburban rows of neat houses
with equal frontages and equally pro-
lific gardens and closely mown street
lawns. It should have prolific gardens,
too, with centuries of topsoil washed
down from the heights of Edgecliff and
Bellevue Hill. For the past 40 years,
however, the stormwater run-off from up
yonder has been piped into an open con-
crete channel, some six-feet wide and
occasionally a trifle smelly, which runs
under New South Head Rd and curves
to empty quickly into the bay—when the
tide is not backing up. The tidal end
is concreted now, but in the mid-20s I can
remember small boys paddling in it,
oblivious to odors as small boys are.
Inland, the channel is fenced against
such excursions, but the backs of the
Glendon Rd homes have wooden bridges
across it, from their garages to gates in
the fencing. How many other suburbs
can boast of moated homes?
So after a brief physical tour of Double
Bay we are back in the shopping centre
and still short of an answer to the staid-
ness-cuteness riddle. Who buys arrange-
ments from the Rose Bud, togs from the
Toggery, or formal gowns from Kara and
Cassano, who dines in one-candlelight
mystery at La Bagatelle, or buys magnums
of French champagne from the House-
hold Supply Co. Ltd supermarket?
In most suburbs a Saturday morning
shopping tour tells much. The people
are out, for anyone to observe. You can
see how they arrive, how they dress, look
into their shopping baskets, listen to
them talk.
Well, Double Bay people mostly arrive
on foot. Buses pass through, bound to
and from most parts of the Eastern
Suburbs, but few get on or off at Double
Bay on a Saturday morning. A group
of wooden cottages is being demolished
near the tidal turn of the channel, off
Cross St, to provide more parking space,
but there are few cars at the spot.
Those who arrive on foot include an
old gentleman in shorts and solar topee,
many others of all ages in crumpled shorts
and Hawaiian shirts, white shirts, khaki
shirts; older women in house dresses,
younger women in gay blouses and
tailored but never-tight slacks, women
of all ages in shirts and shorts, small
children in playsuits. Motley, practical.


WORLD-WIDE
Table Lamp
TLI2O
100% British Made
light
in every
corner...
Abundant light throughout the
house with the Tilley Table
Lamp. Practical and elegant, en-
tirely safe and self-contained, it
burns for 12 hours on only H
pints of ordinary kerosene.
For economical lighting wherever
and whenever it’s needed, you can
put your trust in TILLEY.
•••• ■’ r :
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores. In case of
difficulty write for name of your nearest Stockist tc^»
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY PTY. LTD.
1092 Mt. Alexander Road,
Essendon, W 5. Australia.
On the inland side of the road, the
Green House does a brisk trade in stag-
horns, seedlings, pest killers and potted
shrubs (“I just want a shrub to fill a bit
of garden space”). Woolworths’ super-
market is crowded, George’s espresso is
empty, the Double Bay picture theatre is
closed till 8 p.m.
On the bay side, the Household Supply
supermarket is less crowded but busy,
the Elton Arcade is aromatic with fresh-
ground coffee, several butchers and two
greengrocers are working hard, one news-
agent-bookseller is selling no books, the
Gordon Galleries is hopefully open
(upstairs, Original Australian Art). So are
17 dress salons and boutiques along both
sides of the road, all with SALE notices
in their windows, but few visible prices
and no rush of customers.
Speech is no great help, either. But
the Australian accent is modified and
fluted into college English, particularly
among the women. (“How nais to see you
agen.”) There are some European voices,
not so many. This could be South Yarra,
but the types of people and their voices
are more uniform here. It could be
Toorak, another “village,” though with-
out a Toggery, but the accen is much
milder than Toorak’s (“How NACE to
see you ’gen.”)
Estate agents there have few local
homes to sell, but can move “gentlemen’s
residences” at Vaucluse and Bellevue Hill.
Lettings are mostly flats. But one agent
has a 15-storey block of new home units
for sale on New South Head Rd just
above Double Bay. Three other large
blocks are under construction, around
the edges of the inland half.
Who does shop at the 17 exclusive
salons, and when, or at the Rose Bud?
Why is the Chinese cafe at Double Bay
called, ever so simply, the Chinese Inn,
tuned to its grilly neighbor, the Charcoal
Inn? No Hungry Dragon or Bar-B-Q in
Double Bay.
The salons and boutiques, the Grafton
Galleries, the Rivoli Gift Shop, White
Ivy for smart handbags, the Rose Bud,
Kara and Cassano, Helen's, and for that
matter La Bagatelle, the 308 and Prunier's
restaurants, depend largely on customers
who drive down from Darling Point,
Bellevue Hill, Point Piper, and even
: Vaucluse, during the week, to shop in The
Village.
But the mystery is solved. Double Bay
and its shopping centre are divisable.
That is both superficial and true. Double
Bay people are more inclined to shop at
certain prestige stores in the city. Com-
mercial Double Bay looks up to the
Points, makes itself more and more their
'Village. Some would prefer it to be
called that, officially.”
Residential Double Bay is just as it
seems, a place of solid virtues. It is, in
status, a “good” suburb. The houses are
modest, but owned, and their real estate
values are high. Dad (or Daddy to his
oldest daughters) drives a Holden and
sends his children to private schools.
Girls from Double Bay often marry
school friends of their brothers or
brothers of their school friends, as often
as not from Darling Point, Bellevue Hill,
Vaucluse. Private schools help the boys
in business and profession, too.
The more unusual fact about Double
Bay is its almost complete lack of sport-
ing facilities, elsewhere taken as a symbol
of the Australian way. There are bowl-
ing and sailing clubs. No public tennis
courts, cricket pitches ; a harbor swim-
ming pool but not for competitive swim-
ming ; no football oval. No room. The
colleges have all of these facilities.
Pearce St, on the bay side of Double Bay,
recalls other times. The Pearces of
Double Bay were one of Australia’s great
athletic families. And the Messengers
were here, too.
A monument to those times stands in
William St on the bay side, an old two-
storey home with wide grounds, and in
them the biggest Moreton Bay Fig and
the tallest Norfolk Island Pine. Against
these an old, tall, broken, paling fence
rests comfortably. On the height above
this end of William St stands 15-storey
“Colebrook”, broad, powerful, modern,
glassy. On the far, Edgecliff rise of
Double Bay, another new sentinel is
rising, “Babaringa Mansions”.
One is almost untenanted, so far. The
other is being built. But these two giants
will bring complexes with them. Can a
Village survive in their shadow? And
those other towers already in the minds
of developers who see modest homes as
anachronisms in an area two miles from
the city?
Double Bay is shaped like an arena.
And perhaps it is.




LOCAL[?]MEMBER’S
MA[?]AG
by PEP
Dear Sam,
Some of us here at head-
quarters have become a little
concerned with statements in
the Press attributed to you.
As you know, the policy of
the party is decided democra-
tically through the machinery
provided, and any departure
from this policy cannot be
tolerated.
Of course, if you feel you
have the support to chal-
lenge my leadership . . .
I am writing an essay—
“ The Politician s Place In a
Free Democracy” and
would like your help. My
daddy says all politicians
“are a useless, seat-warming
bunch of hypocrites,” and
Linda’s daddy says they’re
“time-serving urgers for who-
ever will give them the
biggest sling.” Which of
these opinions is correct ?
Dear ,
Well! well! How time flies!
1 was just saying to my wife last
night, “I wonder how old is
getting on ?” It’s been a busy
three years attending the House
and looking after my constituents’
interests, but / was determined to
find time, even though the elections
are so close, to drop a line to my
old cobber .
How’s the Little Woman . . . ?
The undersigned citizens of this electorate have felt for some
time that your unsparing efforts in the community’s interests should
no longer go unrewarded. We have subscribed to a fund for the
purchase of a block of land centrally located in your electorate and
have pleasure in presenting you with the deeds, free of encumbrance.
The land commands splendid water views and is adjoined by
large blocks awaiting development.
When this area is re-zoned for housing purposes . . ,
Another Baby Health
Clinic! The fourth in this
electorate! In a world already
overpopulated with humans,
this wanton encouragement
of feckless fecundity will lead
to disaster, and is desperately
unfair on those of us who
exercise self-control in the
interest of the community at
large !
Is this, then, my reward
for years of unremittingly
loyal labor in the party ?
Despite my failure to gain
pre-selection, I shall carry
high the banner of liberal-
ism, free of party shackles,
and Independent !
Sir,
Congratulations on your
opposition to legalised off-
course betting. As a public
figure, you are a splendid
example to our young people.
Sammy Boy,
Congrats on your stand
against legal SP ! How're
the oul party funds holding ?
Me and seme of the boys are
putting a monkey on the
winner :•/ the last for you.
Hope v - u’: .? first past the
post.




It
could
be
YOU!....
FICTION BY FRANK ROBERTS
“It could be you, Mr Joe Barrattljng Vale!”... “It could be you, Mr IVu !.. It could be
1 • ® <•
"CRL Kramer awoke from a bad dream
■*-' which had twin origins in too much
Instant Vigor late at night and a World
War II movie on television. In the
film he had seen people killed in the
mass in the most gruesome ways, and
with his and millions of other families
he had thanked heaven it was history, and
from a barbarous age.
Lying in bed half-awake, Kramer
wondered how the present times would
look to the views of future years, when
perhaps all atavistic elements had been
drained from the race.
“Hey, what time is it?” he asked his
wife.
“Nearly seven. Better switch on.’
He did, and there was the usual pic-
ture of Hip Jones sprawled on his desk,
sleeping to soft music. The music quick-
ened and Mr Invig appeared on the
screen, with his usual leer at Hip Jones,
and the world. “What a night he must
have had,” Mr Invig said. “What a
night you must have had! Never mind,
what a lovely day it’s going to be in a
few moments, thanks to Instant Vigor.
Got your tablets ready?”
He put one yellow tablet into Hip
Jones’s mouth while four bubble dancers
crossed in front singing the Invig song.
The instant he’d swallowed. Hip Jones
sprang up and looked 100 years younger.
“Are you with me?” he called brightly.
“All together then, swallow!”
Erl Kramer and Melanie popped the
tablets in their mouths and took the
surge lying down. That was when Hip
Jones on the screen cried, “Well, who's
it going to be today, good people?”
Then, as one of the outside cameras
zoomed through a bedroom window and
caught a man yawning. Hip’s voice
called, “It could be you, Mr Joe Barratt
of King Vale! But don't worry, it isn't.
We were just seeing if you were awake.”
’“Will you look at the look on the poor
boob’s face?” said Erl, laughing with
everyone else at Joe Barratt, of King
Vale.
“Well, how would you feel?” Melanie
said. “It can be anyone, anywhere, any
time. I think I’d drop dead with sheer
fright if they sprang a camera at me. ’
"I wouldn’t,” Erl said grimly, and
Melanie reached out and gripped his
arm, and they stared at one another a
second while Hip Jones shouted, “This
is the Invig Show, a daylong adventure
brought to you by the Invig Corporation,
your hosts for that loving-to-be-alive
kind of living.”
Then the camera showed a door, and
tracked along a passage, and Hip Jones’
voice asked, “Who’s it gonna be?” And
then as he said “It could be you ...” they
pulled the switch on him and took the
cameras into the studio and focussed on
Hip Jones who yelled in not altogether
mock surprise, “Mr Hip Jones, care of
the Invig Corporation. Hey fellers,
that’s me!”
Melanie and Erl laughed with the
other million viewers, and Hip cried,
“Oh no, not old Hip. All you lovely
people out there, you wouldn’t want
that, would you? They’re only kidding—
I think.”
“He doesn’t sound too sure,” Erl said,
laughing. “Wouldn’t it be a joke if it
did turn out to be him sometime? If his
rating fell, for instance.”
“Here we go again,” Hip cried. “It
could be you, Mrs Zella Ignacio of
Moonstone. But it isn’t. No, I’ve been
authorised to say it’s a man today. That
makes the odds 987,000 to one for you
men, or something even more astro-
nomical.”
“They had a woman yesterday.”
Melanie said.
“Did you watch?”
“You know I never do. Only until
they give the name and I’m sure it
isn’t you, or someone I know.”
Erl kissed her and went to the shower.
She had breakfast ready when he came
out dressed for work. And Hip Jones
on the morning room screen cried, “It
could be you, Mr Logan Ross of Satin
Plains.” The cameras zoomed to a
middle-aged man alighting from an inter-
urban Hovercraft. He stopped in mid-
stride and almost fell over. Hip Jones
said, “Remember, the prize all this week
is £lOO,OOO. Is it Mr Ross, now? Is it?
No,” he said, “it isn’t, because the man
today never wears a hat. Of course, he
might go out and buy one as soon as
the stores open. We can’t stop him
doing that, can we?”
Erl already had taken his 1.C.8.Y.
book of statistics from his pocket, and
Melanie looked over his shoulder.
“Three-hundred-and-thirteen thousand
men usually hatless,” he reported, and
Melanie said, “Will Central Stores ever
sell a few hats this morning!”
Erl laughed and said, “I’m glad I’m
not in hats. I haven’t got over the rush
to get rid of grey suits last week. We
sent over 3000 to the dumps, and all the
other stores likewise. Hey, remember
the time it was a cat-lover, and they all
threw their cats out into the streets. There
were cats everywhere.”
Melanie remembered. She was nearly
doubled over with laughter.
“You’ve got to hand it to them,” Erl
said. “1.C.8.Y. shifts goods. It must
have been a genius who started the show
even in its original form, way back
there. And I’d better get to work.” He
tested his portable, kissed Melanie good-
bye, and hurried to the transit station.
He was not alone. There were plenty of
hatless men on the station and more in
the car when it arrived.
He listened to the Invig News and the
World Hit Parade on the way in, leaving
the video off so that he could read yester-
day’s main story in the morning papers.
The next 1.C.8.Y. clue was due at nine
o’clock, but sometimes they inserted one
unexpectedly.
Hip Jones was there, even larger than
life, on the Central Stores screens when
Erl arrived at work. Hip had just selec-
ted the winner of the daily Invig Holiday,
a heavyweight woman who had won a
trip to Spain and a free course of Inslim.
“There’s something happening all the
time on the Invig Show,” Hip pro-
claimed. “And now for the next clue
in our daylong adventure, ‘lt Could Be
You! ’ ”
At Central Stores the doors had been
opened and hatless men were streaming
into the store as Hip said, “ ‘lt Could Be
You’ with eyes of blue. And according to
my little data book, that brings us down
to 90,000 possibilities. That’s still a lot,
but keep looking in.” By this time most
of the hatless had turned and walked
out of the store. They had brown eyes,
or carried colored lenses for eye-color
days.
“Well, we’re part of the chosen band
so far,” Erl said to his best friend Steve,
who was looking for his sales book.
“Are we? Yes I suppose we are. I
never take much notice, I’ve been in the
last 1000 or so, dozens of times.”
“Lately? I didn’t think...”
“No, when I was in the Force. They
had a long run on outdoor workers at
one stage and it was often a cop or a
postie.”
Hip cried, “It could be you, Mr Wu,”
and on the screen was a Chinese shelling
shrimp and grinning at the cameras.
“Mr Wu scents a blue,” Hip remarked.
“A blue-eyed Chinaman? Well, hardly.
No, we just threw him in for luck and
he wasn’t a bit worried, was he? Lovely.
Keep watching. More cluey coming up,
chop chop.”
“Aren’t there really any blue-eyed
Chinese?” Erl asked, and Steve shook his
head. “I don’t think so. All brown or
hazel.”
Hip was handed a slip of paper, and
cried, “He has black hair.” And the
cameras roved a crowd and hovered over
a bald head.
“It certainly couldn’t be him,” Erl
chuckled. Invig made every one good
humored in the mornings. Both Erl and
Steve had black hair.
“Thirty-two thousand, now,” Steve
read from the statistics. “I’ll split the
prize with you.”
“Oh sure, me too.” Erl could see three
customers approaching. “I suppose
you’ve worked out what you’d do with
it.”
“Many times,” Steve said. “And also
if it was me.”
Erl hadn’t. He’d never been among
even the last 100,000 before. But now he
had no time to think about it because
suddenly there seemed to be a rush on
suits. It was more than an hour before he
and Steve could exchange a word again,
and then only in the lull before the mid-
day peak.
“I missed a couple of the clues,” Erl
said. “I got the early thirties one, and
the business suit.”
“You only missed one then, man. Sun-
tanned complexion. They’re clever, the
way they string it out. It’s still only
down to 8000.”
“And we’re still in,” Erl said. “But
8000 is a lot.”
Steve shrugged. He was watching two
women who were pretending to examine
a suit special, but were covertly looking
at Erl and him. It had started. “Yes.
we’re still among the 8000,” Steve said,
loud enough for them to hear. But
quietly he said, “I have a damn feeling.”
Erl walked over to the women and
said to the nearest. “Can I help you,
Madam?”
“We’re just looking,” the other one
said. They wandered away but did not
leave the level. “Old crows,” Erl
thought, and Steve asked, “How about
you and Melanie coming over to ouf
place for a while this evening?”
“A good idea,” Erl answered with a
degree of heartiness he didn’t really feel
just then.
And on the screen Mr Invig appeared
again to see that Hip Jones and every-
one else took their midday booster tablet.
It made Hip hilarious, and after the
bubble dancers had finished the Invig
Song he produced a huge pin and threat-
ened to burst their bubbles. There was
confusion in the studio for a while.
Then Hip sobered up and said, “Let’s
see what’s going on outside. Ah yes, it
could be you, Mr Darrell Darling, down
in Dent St.” The cameras zoomed to a
man struggling with three youths while
other people were running towards them.
Darling was punching and kicking and
shouting, “Let me alone.” One of the
youths fell down.
“Hey, there's some excitement down in
Dent St.” Hip said coolly, “but it isn’t
Mr Darling. No siree. He’s left-handed,
and you re looking for a right-handed
man.”
Darling must have heard it from a set
nearby, because he rushed at the youths
and banged two of their heads together.
Other people kicked and punched at
them, and they turned and ran for their
lives.
“It doesn’t do to be impetuous,” Hip
cried. “There’s some way to go yet.
We’ve only narrowed the number down
to 6803. But from here on, watch any
man with black hair, blue eyes, early
thirties, business suit, suntanned com-
plexion. and—here comes another clue—
he works right in the heart of the city.
How about that?”
Steve said, “Hey, that’s a big cut,
down to 3200.”
“Right in the city,” Hip cried, “and
he’s worth maybe £lOO,OOO to you, or
you, or you. Oh, I can see you rushing
in by the thousand, now —all you ladies


from the suburbs. And I’ll tell you this.
If you don’t get your man, you will get
value in the city. If you don’t win, you’ll
certainly save.”
Erl said, “The city stores must have
bought participation today. But the
rush shouldn’t trouble us much. They
won’t be buying suits.”
And Steve growled, “They’ll buy any-
thing, if they think he’s close. And I tell
you, I’ve got a feeling.”
Erl felt his spine prickle. Steve was a
lot bigger and harder than he. Erl played
it cool, shrugged and said, “The more we
sell, the more bonus. I’m going to circu-
late, it’s no use hiding.”
“See you,” Steve said, and almost put
out his hand but changed the direction
and put it in his pocket and turned away.
Those two women were moving back
towards suits, and more people were
arriving by escalator. In no time Erl was
in the centre of a crowd, selling suits
like hot cakes, with two men from other
departments sent in to help him. But by
the grapevine he learned it was the same
in socks, shoes, underwear and sports
goods. People in the crowd had to rely
on intuition, and many who looked at
Erl rejected him and went to another
department, or to other stores.
There was a hush as the screens showed
Hip Jones about to give another clue,
and suddenly then Melanie slipped
through the tight circle of bodies and
reached Erl’s side.
“We’re all in the city now,” Hip
Jones cried. “And it could be you
Arthur Lonigan of Lonigan and Sons.”
This was a killer and the crowd shrieked
with laughter. Even Erl laughed. The
cameras had gone smashing through a
window into an office where the boss
was being held by his staff, 10 people
evidently willing to share the prize.
Lonigan was shouting, “I’ll fire every
last one of you.”
And Hip cried, “You do that, Mr Loni-
gan, because it isn’t you. Our man today
never wears glasses, and I see a pair on
your desk.” There was an instant melee
in Lonigan’s office, and the cameras
dwelt on it just long enough for laughs
and then cut away.
“They were taking a silly risk, weren’t
they?” Hip cried, “for we still have
2500 candidates, or so. There’s plenty of
time. Hey, I’ve got something here,
wouldn’t you like to have?” And he
showed the back of a photograph.
“That’s right, I’ve got his picture here.”
“Erl, I’m so afraid,” Melanie said.
“You shouldnt be here. Please go
home. There’s nothing you could do.”
“Steve’s still in it too, isn’t he?”
He was most upset because she was
there. “Steve’s used to it,” he said. “He’s
been close before. Do go home.”
“Make way for Insur!” a man called
at the back of the crowd, and Erl saw
the opportunity. “I won’t sign unless
you go,” he said.
“All right, dear, you know best.”
Melanie gave him a quick kiss and step-
ped back and went into the parting the
Insur man had made in the crowd, but
she did not get far, although everyone
was very nice. Some of the women
patted her, and others took out their
handkerchiefs and dabbed.
“Sign here,” the Insur man told Erl.
“Let’s see, it’s down to 2000, isn’t it?
There’s such a mob in town, or I’d have
found you when the odds were better.
The premium’s, let’s see, £5. I’ll write
a receipt.”
“Did you get Steve Barclay?” Erl
asked him.
“He’s having a rough time, but I’ll get
him in a minute,” the man said.
“They ought to give more clues at
this stage,” Erl said. “It’s sadistic to drag
it out.”
“Well they have to give us time to get
around, for one thing. You wouldn’t
want to miss on your Insur, would you?
Anyway, it’s more exciting.”
“I suppose so,” said Erl. The screens
were showing crowd scenes from various
parts of the city. It was certainly excit-
ing, and these shots created much indeci-
sion among the people around Erl. Even
he felt it. Some of the candidates on
the screens made his pulse jump with
certainty.
But, after all, he was employed to sell
suits. “What about you, madam?” he
asked a fat woman with green glasses.
“What size is your husband?”
“Insignificant, honey, you got any-
thing for an insignificant man?” she
said and the crowd laughed.
Erl persisted. He took a suit from the
rack and held it in front of her. “It’s in
the new ctyle, you won’t know it’s the
same man.”
“I should buy him a new suit?” the fat
woman said. “Honey, if I win today,
I’ll buy me a whole new husband. Then
for sure he won’t be the same man.”
The crowd showed that it knew a real
wit when it heard one. She was about
to go on, but something on the screens
caught everyone’s attention.
It was Hip with an Invig Sudden Death
jackpot. That meant there would be
another contest in the afternoon, run-
ning right up to the other channel’s
night show, “You Bet Your Life.”
“Here it is, then!’” Hip cried. “Are
you in Central Stores? Because our
man is. Don’t make any mistakes now,
remember all the clues and don’t
forget the penalties. There are 15
possibles in Central Stores and please,
good people, don’t wreck the joint.”
Fifteen? Erl fought his way to a
counter and jumped on to it, trying to
sight Steve. But Steve was in a bigger
crowd than Erl. There were only the two
of them on that floor. People were
fighting to hold Erl’s legs, hitting and
pushing and shouting at one another.
They pulled him down into the mass of
gaping faces with, he was sure, Melanie’s
among them.
“He’s in suits,” they screeched, taking
it from Hip Jones. There was a surge
away from and he fought his way up-
right, shouting, “There’s two of us.”
Then he saw that Steve had got on to a
counter, with a heavy steel coathanger
in his hand. He was threatening them
with it, and none had a right to touch
Steve until he was named, if it was to be
he.
The crowd was growing every moment.
Steve made a wild jump over the nearest
heads and the crowd opened to let him
fall on his feet. He was big and the
hanger was heavy. He ran to the big
windows, with all of them surging after
him, and he smashed the glass with
one blow and climbed through, or started
to, but they got him and pulled him back,
cutting him badly. He still had the
hanger and flailed around with it, send-
ing them back. Nearly everyone thought
it was Steve because Steve thought so,
but a few dozen diehards clung to Erl.
“I'm going to tell you which one in
suits,” Hip cried on the screen. “But
wait for it, good people. Don’t make any
hasty mistakes, the penalties are terrible
if you do.”
Erl braced himself and Hip cried,
“It’s the big fellow, Steve Barclay.”
Then there were terrible screams.
Erl read next day that Steve took
three with him and hurt many more.
That was silly. The game was necessary,
a scientific outlet, everyone knew that.
And if it was your turn, just too bad.
The fat woman with the green glasses
won the £lOO,OOO. No one bothered to
find out whether she bought a new
husband. There was another contest
and another winner in the afternoon.
But in the store, bruised and bleeding,
Erl was not quite so philosophical in the
heat of the moment. He shook off the
last of those around him and looked for
Melanie.
When he saw her he went to her and
took her handbag and opened it and
looked inside. Of course it contained
her 1.C.8.Y. contest knife with her name
and number engraved in gold.
“Wouldn’t the Insur have been enough
for you?” he asked her.
“Dear, it wouldn’t have meant any-
thing. You know it wouldn’t have.'
He handed the bag back to her and
said, “Christ, what have they done to us?’
“There’s no need to be blasphemous,
Melanie said.


enjoy
thoroughly
Tinaopsfc
SWEET
SHERRY
,*°oucr
M
OF *
Ask also for St. Agnes Brandy
The Wild
Cat Pages
TOBACCO
BRAND SWITCHING
FINANCE BUSINESS ECONOMIC COMMENT FNVESTMENT OIL AND MINING
ID ecent publicity for the two major
A Australian tobacco manufacturers
was accompanied by guarded phrasing
when their “share of the market” was
discussed. One company’s estimate was:
Rothmans 47 p.c., British Tobacco 37
p.c., Godfrey Phillips 8 p.c., Philip Morris
5 p.c., imported 3 p.c.
There are three ways in which either an
individual brand or a firm can increase
its share of the market. It can maintain
the same share of an annually expanding
market, or persuade a constant market to
smoke more intensively, or secure an
increased percentage of a constant
market.
Over the last two years the major
feature of the filter market has been the
increase in sales of Rothmans, whose
share was apparently fairly stable when
Peter Stuyvesant was introduced. Stuy-
vesant was presumably developed as a
“fighting brand” to erode Craven A’s
market share. However, this tactic may
have rebounded against its creators.
To establish Stuyvesant it was necessary
for Rothmans to cause “brand switch-
ing” in consumer behavior. (Indeed, this
has been the common theme in all recent
mass media cigarette advertising—“ Have
you tried .... ?”, “Switch to . . . ”, etc.)
But, simply because a large section of
the industry adopted the theme, it seems
that Rothmans’ immediate problem is to
halt the brand switching which they
successfully induced.
The present filter market is character-
ised by strong consumer “brand loyalty”
to Rothmans, which has undisputed first
place. During 1962 the second place may
alternate between Peter Stuyvesant and
Craven A Filter. This section is now
showing evidence of brand switching
and so a strong advertising campaign can
draw either brand at least a temporary
sales increase.
The danger is that the increase can
also be drawn away by another advertis-
ing campaign.
This market situation favors Rothmans
as long as the combined sales of Roth-
mans Filter and Peter Stuyvesant exceed
the sales of British Tobacco filters.
The first long-term danger is that
brand switching among the minor
brands may also extend to Rothmans
Filter. If so, Rothmans’ share could
only be maintained by advertising
increases—and profit reductions.
The second long-term danger is that
the filter brand switching may spread
to other sections of the tobacco market —
again with the likely result that sales
could only be purchased by increased
advertising allocations.
But, even in the short run, a market
characterised by a moderate amount of
brand switching could favor British
Tobacco’s wider variety of brands.
MALCOLM VAGG
THE COMMON MARKET
FRANCE'S RAPID EVOLUTION
'T'he development of the French
economy, and in particular its per-
formance in the Common Market, has
received much less attention than the
German “economic miracle”. Yet the
story of massive French economic expan-
sion since 1950 has been truly spectacular.
But the influence of the Common
Market, as distinct from the expansion-
ary forces which —in company with


Pick up a better return
with complete security
wgmm.
P.A. for 8 and 10 years
with
REID MURRAY
Acceptance Limited
Reg. First Mortgage Debenture Stock
SHORT TERM NOTICE STOCK
PA on 12
mths. notice
P.A. on 3
niths. notice
4<7b .PA at call
Applications accepted only on forms at-
tached to the Prospectus. Available from.-
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. G 7 1924
Any branch ef the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melb.
CUTTEN & HARVEY
S 7 King William Street, Adelaide
408 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of Stock Exchange of
Adelaide Ltd.
£7,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RMA.2OV
BY REID MURRAY HOLDINGS LTD.
almost continuous inflation and successive
devaluations of the franc —had already
been at work in the French economy
since 1950, decided the issue.
The building of the Six incontestably
aided the French Government to launch
its courageous programme of rehabili-
tation and only the deadline fixed by the
Rome Treaty enabled the taboo of
devaluation to be overcome.
How'ever, before the treaty came into
force, gloomy prognostications were being
made on all sides. Mendes-France
believed the minimum period needed to
restore the French payments situation
tc health before exposing France to the
Common Market was three years. By
June, 1958. the balance-of-payments
deficit for the year had reached not less
than 229 billion francs ; reserves were
practically exhausted.
An improvement followed the change
of regime in May, 1958, but “strong
medicine" was needed to enable France
to restore herself to the level of her
Common Market partners and to carry
out the obligation of the Rome Treaty.
It was provided in the now-famous Pinay-
Rueff plan.
The protective measures which had
characterised the French economy for
centuries were largely swept away. The
franc was devalued by 17.5 p.c. and
became convertible for non-residence,
quota restrictions on imports were dras-
tically reduced and France achieved the
first tariff and quota adjustment laid
down in the Treaty of Rome.
\X7hat had actually happened?
In 1958, French industrial produc-
tion had risen by 4 p.c. only—a disap-
pointing performance compared with
preceding years. For three months after
the Pinay-RuefF measures had been
applied, production was stagnant, as
might have been expected after such
drastic financial surgery. From then on-
wards, however, industrial production
expanded rapidly. For 1959 it was 7 p.c.
above 1958 level, and in 1960 a further
8.5 p.c.
This impressive expansion was stimula-
ted by three main factors: export, invest-
ment and consumption. Between last
quarter of 1958 and first quarter of 1960
French export expanded by no less than
38 p.c.
Investment, the stagnation of which
held back the whole of the economy in
the spring of 1959, provided a powerful
stimulus later in the year. Spurred by
Government measures allowing faster
depreciation on investments, capital
expenditure rose sharply. In 1960 pri-
vate investment was about 8 p.c. higher
than in 1959, despite the existence of
important influences —the war in Algeria
and ending of inflation.
Towards the middle of 1960. as auto-
mobile sales to the US slumped, domestic


The Changing
Pattern of
INVESTMENT
§
If your Estate includes investment
holdings are you satisfied that your
portfolio is sound and balanced to pro-
vide a stable income during your life-
time—and later for your beneficiaries?
Should you review your investments
now —with the guidance of experts in
daily touch with changing financial
trends?
Have you planned your Estate so that
Death Duties are minimised and your
assets conserved to the fullest advantage?
Union Trustee —with the experience of
administering millions of pounds in
Trust funds —can help you as financial
counsellors. Why not investigate—with-
out obligation the advantages of
appointing the Company as Executor,
Trustee, Agent or Attorney?
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l
20 O’Connell St., Sydney
398-402 Queen St., Brisbane
also at Newcastle, Albury, Toowoomba,
Rockhampton and Charleville
Please send me your “Estate Planning” folder
NAME
ADDRESS
UT36.82N
consumption took over the role of exports
in leading the boom. A fairly rapid rise
in wages in the second half of the year
was instrumental in sustaining demand,
which was helped along by an increase
in family allowance and old age pensions.
Even more remarkable than the rate of
expansion, for the first time since libera-
tion in 1944 it was achieved without
inflation. The Common Market did much
to restrain the rapid rise in wages and
prices which had annulled the effect of
previous devaluations.
The most striking achievement of the
French economy in 1959 and 1960 was
doubtless its performance in foreign
trade. In those two years France's foreign
trade was in balance compared with a
deficit of 361 billion Old francs in 1958.
Exports rose by 26.5 p.c. in 1959 and a
further 25 p.c. in 1960.
The export boom was due mainly to
devaluation and the opening of the Com-
mon Market. Exports to the rest
of the Common Market in 1960 rose
by 42.6 p.c. of total French exports from
35.4 p.c. in 1958. This astonishing rever-
sal of previous trends, together with the
restoration of confidence in the franc,
brought French reserves from a deficit in
1958 to 2991.9 million dollars surplus by
February 1, 1962.
The engineering industry regarded the
Common Market as “a formidable adven-
ture in which nothing less is at stake than
the maintenance of an independent
strong industry on French soil” (FIM,
luly, 1957).
The industry's prices were 25-30 p.c.
higher than those of its main competitors
in Germany ; the Federation des Indus-
tries Mecaniques complained that wage
costs, exchange rates and credit conditions
were against it, that it could only export
at a loss, and that its techniques were not
competitive.
But by 1960 spectacular export results
were achieved in machine tools (+ 47
p.c.), refrigeration equipment (+129
p.c.), ball bearings (+lO9 p.c.) and lifting
equipment ( +79 p.c.). Of total exports,
50 p.c. went to Europe, mainly the Com-
mon Market ; Germany, on whom French
fears of competition had earlier centred,
was the main client.
These extraordinary results were
achieved by stepping up previous export
efforts by action on price levels, by high
French technical ability and quality in
many fields, and by the inability of the
German industry to meet all the demands
made on it.
All this was possible due to internal
reorganisation, collective sales efforts,
higher rates of both private and Govern-
ment investment, technical research and
agreements between the Common Market
partners and stepping up of publicity and
information as regards its successes.
The French engineering industry to-day
takes a very different view of the future.
It seems the opening of frontiers within
the Common Market is the main—
though not the only—factor making for
continued expansion in this sector.
The influence of the Common Market
on the mentality of French industrialists
has been decisive. They have become
export-minded and have developed com-
mercial mentality. They have realised not
only that exports are necessary but that
they are possible. French industrialists
have lost their fears of signing agreements
with foreign organisations, and are now
actively seeking contacts. French
public opinion is no longer prejudiced
against large firms, nor is there
any l° n § er fear of US investment. On
con trary, they fear that France is not
getting its fair share of US funds,
W. J. GLUSCHIKOWSKI


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
(A member of Commercial Union Australia Group)
ESTABLISHED 1872
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne. Queensland Branch:
Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
F. S. WATSON, Manager
COMPANY REVIEWS AND NOTES
BERLEI UNITED LTD
COMMON MARKET PROBLEMS?
TJerlei United Ltd was formed in 1920
to acquire Berlei Ltd, originally set
up as Unique Corsets Ltd in 1912.
Australian subsidiaries of the holding
company are:
Berlei Ltd, man fact urer and distributor of
foundation garments throughout Australia.
Warner's “Le Gant” Pty Ltd, distributes
the Warner range under licence from the
Warner Bros Co., Bridgeport, USA.
Berlei Pty Ltd owns and operates property
and investments jn Victoria.
Berlei Staff Provident Fund Management Pty
Ltd, which acts as trustee of the company’s
staff provident funds.
The United Kingdom subsidiary is
Berlei (U.K.) Ltd, which manufactures
and distributes “Berlei” products in the
UK and handles exports to the Continent.
The associated company in New Zea-
land is Berlei Industries Ltd. which has
two local subsidiaries —Modaire Ltd and
Berlei (N.Z.) Ltd.
A fire which occurred in December,
1960, at the premises of William Fletcher
Junr. Ltd, Berlei (U.K.) Ltd's subsidiary,
almost completely destroyed the main
factory building. The loss was adequately
covered by insurance and the company
is erecting a new and larger building. In
addition, Berlei (U.K.) Ltd has acquired
a plant at Pontazdawe, Wales.
The severe economic restrictions in
November, 1960, resulted in a reduction
in demand. In the year to June 30, 1961,
Australian production of brassieres
amounted to 511.000 doz. —a fall of
7000 doz. compared with the previous
year —while imports of brassieres totalled
103,000 doz., an increase of 39,000 doz.
Trading during 1960-61 was most satis-
factory in the UK, but difficult in Aus-
tralia. The fall in Australian sales and
profits was a direct result of the prevailing
economic conditions during the half-year
January to lune, 1961. Adjustments were
made as a result of contraction of con-
sumer demand and this was reflected in
the fall in costs and expenses in the con-
solidated profit statement from £5,321,291
to £5,109,801, a reduction of £211,490.
Sales decreased by £213,050 to £5,607,421,
3f p.c. less than in the previous year.
Consolidated net profit for the year
ended June 30, 1961, fell by £17,563 to
£290,786, after providing £2347 less for
depreciation at £78,128 and £23,072 more
for tax at £260,329. The higher incidence
of the UK profit tax is reflected for
the first time in the accounts, resulting in
a substantial rise in the provision of
taxation despite the slight fall in profits:
Berlei United Ltd
r~ —Dividends- — x
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June,Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
Parent and Subsidiaries.!
’59..233,167 4000 10 p.c. = 83,182 145,985 1,177,129
Tax overprovided, £9501 .. .. 1,186,630
To staff fund, £40,814 .. .. 1,145,816
Share premiums, £BlOO .. .. 1,153,916
Net reduction reserves, £6526 . . 1,147,390
’60..308,349 4000 10 p.c. = 102,672 201,677 1,349,067
Tax overprovided, £2798 .. .. 1,351,865
To staff fund, £50,232 .. .. 1,301,633
Share premiums, £25,000 .. .. 1,326,633
Revaluation assets, £56,600 . . . . 1,383,233
Other additions reserve, £10,071 .. 1,393,304
’61..290,786 10 p.c. = 139,040 151,746 1,545,050
* After deducting intangibles, written-off in 1960.
f Less proportion of profit due to outside interests.
Consolidated net profit was equivalent
to an earning rate of 18.31 p.c. on the
higher average ordinary capital, com-
pared with 30 p.c. in 1960, 21.5 p.c. in
1959, 30.3 p.c. in 1958, 32.2 p.c. in 1957
and 38.1 p.c. in 1956. The ordinary divi-
dend rate was steady at 10 p.c., absorbing
£139,040, and was comfortably covered.
Reserves received £151,746 and also
benefited by £2798 tax overprovision,
£25,000 share premiums, £56,600 revalua-
tion of assets and £10,071 arising from
surplus over book value of the insurance
claim for loss of the factory in England,
but were decreased by £50,232 (up £9418)
transferred to staff fund. Total reserves
and undistributed profits were disclosed
at £1,545,050, free of intangibles.
In September, 1960, preference capital
was converted into ordinary capital on
the basis of the issue of one 20s. ord.
stock-unit for every two 20s. pref. units
(25,000 20s. ords. were issued). This was
followed by a one-for-four issue at par
to ordinary shareholders. Paid capital
at £1,314,000 is £237,275 higher, follow-
ing the conversion and the new issue.
During the year the holding company
acquired further shares in Berlei (U.K.)
Ltd, thus decreasing the proportion of
minority interest held by £2125 to
£66,583. However, the remaining
minority shareholders’ reserves have
increased from trading and capital profits.
Thus total minority interest of £149,224
shows an increase of £5007.
Mortgages, bank overdraft and sundry
creditors were all lower ; while tax pro-
vision and final dividends increased:
Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Paid capital—- 1959. 1960. 1961.
Pref £50,000 £50.000
Ord 1,019,325 1,026,725 1,314,000
Reserves .. .. 1,177,129 1,349.067 1,545,050
Minority interest. . 181,596 144,217 149,224
Mortgage, etc. .. 190.000 182,500 175,000
Overdraft, etc. .. 291,595 417,356 159,557
Creditors . . . . 538,707 517,833 342,275
Tax provision .. 331,953 364,970 460,165
Final divs. .. 47,732 57,477 69,581
£3,828,037 £4,110,151 £4,214,852
Freeholds . . 613,570 697,346 780,285
Plant, etc. .. 405,987 407,565 425,252
Investments .. 53,644 00,300 53,608
Stocks .. .. 2,090,454 2,114,432 1,887,517
Book-debts .. 641,346 805.914 751,681
Cash, etc. .. 23,036 24,594 316,509
£3,828,037 £4,110,151 £4,214,852
Freeholds increased by £82,939 to
£780,285, plant, furniture and vehicles
rose by £17,687 to £425,252, after lower
depreciation. Investments were lower at
£53,608 and book debts decreased to
£751,681.
Trading stock was £226,915 lower at
£1,887,517 (net of £50,000 devaluation
provision). This decrease was partly due
to the adjustments made as result of de-
cline in demand. Cash balances increased
by £291,915 to £316,509, however, inclu-
sive of £93,750 UK tax reserve certificates,
being interest-bearing payments in
advance against income-tax liability.
The current financial year has shown
an encouraging improvement in demand.
The recently released new group of gar-
ments has been well received by the
market.
The latest addition to the group was


FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS, £893,311.
TANGIBLE ASSETS, £3,075,024.
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
WITH RIGHT OF RECALL
ON 30 DAYS’ NOTICE
3 months . . . . 5V2% p.a.
6 months .... 6% p.a.
9 months . . . . p.a.
12 months .... 7% p.a.
18 months .. . . 7 Vr/. p .a.
• FIXED DEPOSITS
2 years 8% p.a.
3 years 8 p.a.
AND OVER
APPLICATIONS must be made
on the form enclosed with the
prospectus, which is obtainable
from
Members of the Stock Exchange
ANY BRANCH OF A.N.Z. BANK
The Registered Office of the Com-
pany, William & Crown Sts.,
Sydney. Telephone FA 0322.
Financing world-
famous products
distributed by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies.
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
in Queensland
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
in Queensland
LISTER
Engines
GROUP SALES
YEAR ENDED
30-6-61
£12,857,865
’MAIL THIS COUPON 4
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 1/11/61, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
lI7BOH
8.3/S
THE UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
Established 1802.
Head Offiee: GEORGE AND lIENTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R
A. MURRAY JONES, HUGH DIXON, D. A. T.
KNOX (Vice-Chairman), R. J. VICARS,
DICKINS, K B. MYERS, A. E. STEPHEN
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of Every Description
J O, LEWIS, General Manager.
a new “Berlei House”, opened in Bris-
bane to provide improved facilities for
selling and distribution in Queensland.
Extension to the Punchbowl plant in
NSW has increased production capacity
by 150 p.c. New showroom, office and
warehouse were leased in Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.
Britain’s entry into the European
Common Market will have some effect
on a number of Australian companies,
including Berlei United Ltd. The UK
subsidiary is a leading manufacturer of
foundation garments and faces stiff com-
petition from the Continental manufac-
turers.
The company has an excellent profit
and dividend record, but a rather sober
view of a reduced earning rate in the
future. Shares remain reasonably firm.
At the last sale in Sydney the 20s. ords.
fetched 48s. 6d. The yield is 4.1 p.c. on the
basis of the 10 p.c. dividend rate.
Net tangible asset-backing works out
at a solid 445. Id. for each 20s. ordinary
share on the basis of consolidated
accounts.
TASMANIA
ALUMINIUM
VI/hen Comalco (Consolidated Zinc-
Kaiser Aluminium) in December,
1960, bought out the Commonwealth's
interest in the Australian Aluminium Pro-
duction Commission and, with the Tas-
manian Government (the other partner
in AAPC), set up the Aluminium Pro-
duction Corporation (APCO) to operate
the Bell Bay plant, it gave George Town
Council the answer to an indigent munici-
pality’s prayer. George Town (1950
population. 300), a village at the mouth
of the Tamar, founded in 1811 by Gov-
ernor Macquarie with some passing
claims as capital of Northern Tasmania,
had been waiting a long time for such a
break. As it was, it was headquarters of
a heavily rated, poor municipality with a
lot of rough bush country and small
revenues.
AAPC, as a Government instrumen-
tality, was not liable for rates on the £lO
million Bel] Bay plant a couple of miles
from the township, though it made a
£3OOO p.a. ex gratia payment. APCO, on
the other hand, became rateable as from
December, 1960, and on a Government
valuation was billed £15,187 annually.
APCO spurned this figure, and the parties
prepared themselves for litigation.
Then APCO offered £lO,OOO pa.
George Town Warden. Mr L. J.
Mooney, said that the council should
accept this offer. “Tasmania,” he said,


IY I
Jl\ -Li
This World Famous Brand is Manufactured
and Distributed by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES AND
ASSOCIATED COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company of
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlement of claims
Directors
ALFRED S. WHITE. Esq- Chairman : E. G. CONES, Esq., T. K. MAGNEY, Esq., A. G. PARKER,
Esq., DOUGLAS WADLEY, Esq
H. H MOULTON. Esq.. Managing Director. B. J. LANE, Esq- Manager
’Phone: BU 7401. (Branches irt all States) 16/20 Bridge Street. Sydney.
“is screaming for development and here
is a golden opportunity to give some form
of incentive.” He said that the plant was
on a State highway and was otherwise
serviced by its own roads. Yet APCO
was asked £9OOO for road rates. “They
have been charged £330 for street light-
ing, but they provide their own,” said
Warden Mooney. “Their general rate will
be £1125, health £675, library £225, and
they will provide £563 for the reserves
account.”
At a special meeting a week later the
council accepted the offer on an eight-to-
four vote. At th& meeting, Warden
Mooney said that the industry had
brought great benefits to the municipality
in schools, roads, power, water and ship-
ping facilities which otherwise might
never have come. He added that Bell Bay
aluminium had tariff protection because
its landed cost in Melbourne was £3B a
ton more than imported aluminium. He
also remarked that the current £7 million
expansion will lift production to 32,000
tons a year by 1963, and the projected
further expansion was projected to rabe
output to 48,000 tons annually by 1965.
In addition, the B.H.P. subsidiary, Tas-
manian Electro-Metallurgical Co’s
£1,600,000 project at Bell Bay was nearly
ready to put into operation one of the
biggest electrical ferro-manganese furn-
aces in the world.
F. G. N. EWENCE
HUMES LTD
INTERIM REPORT
■pviRECTORS say that the parent com-
pany’s results for the six months to
December 31, 1961, “have been satisfac-
tory and both sales and profits are in
excess of those for the corresponding
period of the previous financial year.”
Orders on hand at December 31, 1961,
totalled over £4,700,000 and “it is con-
sidered that both sales and profits for
the twelve months to June 30, 1962, will
be slightly higher than those of 1960-61.”
Australian subsidiaries associated with
the building industry had a slack period
but “it is anticipated that in the next
six months they will achieve better results.
The aggregate profits earned by the sub-
sidiaries for the six months ended Dec-
ember 31, 1961, approximate those for
last year and similar results for the full
year are anticipated.”
Interim dividends of 31 p.c. for the six
months’ period were declared on 1\ p.c.
cum. “A” prefs, and 1\ p.c. cum. “B”
prefs. The ordinary interim dividend is 7
p.c. (6 p.c. from profits earned in Australia
and 1 p.c. from profits earned overseas).


If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your
fancy write to the Manager, who will
quote you a price for the original.
A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members o / Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Fife Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 312761
(4 lines)
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Delfin House,
16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building,
150 Queen St., Melbourne,
67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables:
“Rosdale,” Sydney, Melbourne
or Wollongong.
John N. Robertson, Thompson
and Co.
Members of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS,
Temple Court,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l>
Telephones: 67 6154, 67 6155
Telegrams and Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
Financiers in London, Tokyo,
New York.
Experts in every field of business
and commerce.
Unbiased correspondents in
Canberra.
Facts are presented precisely,
concisely in
The Australian
FINANCIAL TIMES
OUT EVERY MONDAY
PRICE 1/6
SPECULATOR'S DIARY
Monday, February 26
T AST week saw some of the steam
go out of the market. So it’s been
what the company directors would call a
period of consolidation. But even con-
solidation can have its moments. For in-
stance, I decided to go in really deep with
Hunter Douglas.
You might remember that in that in-
spired burst before Christmas I bought
200 Hunter Douglas shares at 265. This
has proved to be one of my best in-
vestments for a long while and, after
seriously considering selling and taking
my profit, I instead did a Canberra type
about-face and bought 200 more. Only
it was convertible notes this time. What
impressed me was that the shares have
maintained their quite exceptional price
rise. The reason, maybe, is that now this
company is coming to be thought of less
as the erstwhile Mello-lite and more as
the Australian subsidiary of the suc-
cessful international Hunter Douglas
organisation. As such, the shares and the
notes still seem very reasonably priced.
At 41s. the earnings yield on the shares
is the best part of 8 per cent, compared
with the Melbourne Stock Exchange’s
average earnings yield of 6.2 per cent,
for 50 leading stocks. And there appears
to be every chance of Hunter Douglas’s
earnings rising as the economy recovers,
the benefits of the merger become ap-
parent, the product range is widened, and,
incidentally, as the scrip becomes
scarcer. So I bought 200 of the convert-
ible notes which struck me as a much
better buy at 365. than the shares at 41s.
After all, the income difference is only
2s. and hardly justifies a market disparity
of ss. when the notes rank for both
bonus and cash issues. The result is that
I now have a quite substantial stake,
for me, in Hunter Douglas.
The other main development of the
week was that my friends finally talked
me out of my reactionary attitude to
oil shares. Now, this doesn’t mean I
bought A.O.G. at 84s. Instead I plunged
on 2000 Woodside contributing shares
with the object of getting 1000 shares in
the Mid-Eastern float. This latter com-
pany seems to have more strategically
placed leases than its well publicised
predecessors, Planet and Exoil.
Having resisted the temptation to sell
Moulded Products short because of what
must be an awful profit announcement
coming up, I turned instead to another
company due to publish its annual re-
port soon—F. W. Williams. Williams
should be able to produce a much more
palatable result than Moulded Products,
particularly if it decides to reveal the
full extent of its share of the profits from
its “associated” (half-owned) companies.
As you probably know, there is a lot
more to F. W. Williams than meets the
eye outside that curious old building in
Loftus Street. It is far from being a farm
and station supplier now that it has equal
interests with St. Regis Paper in the Sisal-
kraft companies and in Bates, the cement
bag people. The 10s. shares still seemed
reasonable at 365. 6d. but I could only
afford 100.
The week’s buying soon ran up to
£1274. Feeling that my oil shares might
look out of place alongside my blue
chips, I sold both B.H.P. and A.C.I. They
yielded only very modest profits (£l5
and £6, respectively) but gave me £619
in cash which covered the 200 Hunter
Douglas and 100 F. W. Williams. I hope
to be able to jettison the Woodsides
this week for only a small loss and be
left with free rights to 1000 Mid-
Easterns.
BOUGHT
100 F. W. Williams at 36/6 .. £lB6
200 Hunter Douglas notes at
36/- £ 7
2,000 Woodside contribs. at 7/- £721
SOLD
100 B.H.P. at 69/6 .. £343
100 A.C.I. contribs. at 56/- .. £276
Cost Cur-
Xo. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
300 Hornibrook 4/3/61 23/- 28/6
200 Southern TV 26/6/61 20/- 27/3
400 Derrin Bros 14/8/61 10/- 12/-
400 O’Donnell
Griffin 28/8/61 11/8 16/-
200 Shipping News 25/9/61 17/3 23/-
800 Southgate 6/11/61 8/6 9/-
1,000 United Motels 20/11/61 3/6 4/5
500 Western Mining
(contributing) 20/11/61 8/3 13/9
1.000 Harris Holdings 5/12/61 7/- 8/6
200 Hunter Douglas 7/12/61 26/- 41/-
200 Beau Monde 8/12/61 25/- 33/-
1,000 Fibre Con-
tainers 13/12/61 17/6 20/9
400 Planet Oil 15/1/62 1/-
400 W. J. Manufac-
turing 24/1/62 11/9 12/9
400 Auto and General
Finance 8/2/62 19/9 24/-
300 Mauri Bros. 16/2/62 22/6 24/-
100 F. W. Williams 20/2/62 36/6 37/6
200 Hunter Douglas
notes 21/2/62 36/- 36/-
2,000 Woodside
contribs. 22/2/62 7/- 9/-
(In case there are any readers who buy
only every second issue of The Bulletin
to read this villainous diary, they should
know that it now appears every week.
So it’s high time you took out a sub-
scription. First copies off the presses and
all that. And only 525. a year.)


Feiffer
Mint 'Com our
OF THEM!
SEED ID THERE
ioue erouoh!
m sood^illie.NqW l
WHAT AEE AOV POIU6 ’
iw there all m
WVRW ATIYEOU)?
HOUR PATHOR P/PM'T 6ET A
BANK loam to BuiLpyou
A LIBRARY MISTER! AOU VO
if OUR REAVID6 SOMEDHERE
THAN) HIS FALLOUT
SHELTER! \ Jfifffa |1
epw
PIA
5^
*<•
* mv" 16 '
f
160,.
m!
mmms! AR6uweMTs! wu sm its
TOURF, - W 514TTR 5 M5 ITS WgRS
its zmvmrz fallout khutor
SOT MAMA’S'
tfOUR 6ISIER. QVCKb
um TiMe 5m
A PiAHt! Wu HAI/T
TO MAKf ALLOWANCE
youz sisree/
■*» f jfWf
ml,
MftTEK.W
PIMIIO6 HOT TH£
MACHINE 6Dti A6AIM
w m HOD?
HONJesr, MA
I WAfc R6AD'
ING.I OIPKI'T
Touch AM/-
TH<N6 OF
DAD 5.
R6APIIO6' ££APIN)6-
MATS 50
mm tamt w
you me
7Atfoo WORt-P
ia/arh hoorah
COMICS"
Th 6 things wwe
attracts v to! what
cad you vo mw
ms tow?
A


Out and About
FOR THE CONSUMER
THE SELL: HARD AND SOFT
THE ARTS BOOKS TELEVISION FOR THE CONSUMER ABORIGINALITIES
Tn merchandising there are two
*- approaches, the soft sell and the hard
sell. Some prefer one, some are fanatics
for the other. In Melbourne in the
month just ended, two of the city’s biggest
organisations each spent several thousands
of pounds to produce what may become
classics in the two “sells.”
On Tuesday, February 13, 1962, The
Herald and Weekly Times Ltd used a
double-page spread in its two dailies,
the morning "Sun” and afternoon
‘Herald,” to launch a six-day series of
“statements" with the theme “Let's get
back to prosperity and let’s start now .
And above the headline a whole phalanx
of people was depicted, presumably on
their way.
On Wednesday the same crowd
appeared in single-page advertisements,
under the heading. “Let’s go to meet
Prosperity,” and over the sub-heading"
“...not sit around waiting for it to
start.”
Came Thursday, and the crowd had
dwindled to one man, who had his back
to the reader, presumably pondering the
headline spread under the tail of his
coat, “What am / doing to bring back
Prosperity?”
By Friday he had turned side on to
his audience, and was giving its members
a curmudgeon stare over the shoulder
of a right arm with its tight fist buried
deep in his pocket. “How,” said his
headline, "every / out of work can be
helped by the 30 in jobs.” And by this
time, without having read any of the
text of any of the “statements,” you
knew the answer.
Having begun so positively with
Tuesday’s double-page “Let’s get back
to prosperity and let’s start n0w ...”
and then softened the approach to such
a quietly reasoning level, the Herald-Sun
newspapers obviously were going to
deliver a shock attack on Saturday,
Probably with the force of a Charles
Atlas demanding your 971 b. body for
seven days —the pointing, accusing finger,
the thundering headline, “Get it OUT of
your pocket and SPEND!” Surely?
The headline for Saturday’s one-page
“statement” merely said, “Don’t under-
estimate what extra shillings in Mrs
Smith’s purse can do for prosperity.”
There was a drawing of Mrs Smith
looking rather dubiously into a shopping-
bag. This was the softest of sells .
There is no Sunday newspaper in
Melbourne. On Monday, February 19,
a double-page spread showed small re-
productions of the five “statements,” and
said, “Now . . . prosperity is up to each
of us.
“This is the sixth—and the last —of a
series of advertisements which appeared
each day last week. They caused a flood
of letters—brought requests for thousands
of reprints, including some from schools.
“Newspapers in other States asked for
them and are publishing them. The
Prime Minister, too, wired his congratu-
lations. None of these things, however,
is as important as the question: How
have they been received by the average
man and woman and their family . . . the
consumers of the community . . . the big
majority of them in steady, well-paid jobs
... with money in the bank ... who have
hardly been touched by a recession which
has cost others their jobs?
[With puzzlement, perhaps?]
“No country ever won its way back to
full employment and prosperity except
through a confident people freely buying
“ Confusing, isn't it ?”


each other’s wares and produce —using
each other’s services—giving each other
employment—bringing each other pros-
perity.
“Sensible spending is the way to pros-
perity.”
And so endeth the soft sell.
On Monday, February 19, 1962, the
Myer Emporium began to give away one
Holden car a day to some fortunate pur-
chaser of a refrigerator, electric stove, or
washing machine —as well as the “huge
trade-ins” being offered throughout
Australia at this time.
This, ladies and gentlemen, is the
hardest sell Australia has seen in a long,
long time.
FRANK ROBERTS
TELEVISION
NO SENSE OF DIRECTION
A recent article about the cinema in a
learned journal explained the com-
plex continuity involved when someone is
travelling from one place to another in a
motion picture. A constant sense of
direction, the author explained, is created
by thinking of the screen in terms of
north, east, south and west. A train,
ship or plane travelling from the bottom
of the screen towards the top is going
from south to north. To go from east to
west simply means moving from the right
across to the left side of the screen. And
if during this journey the conveyance
always moves in the same direction, we
know that the destination is the same.
These thoughts passed through my
mind the other night when I decided to
watch an episode of “Adventures In
Paradise,” a weekly television series about
a young adventurer facing the rigors of
life as the skipper of a sleek yacht usually
harbored in Papeete, Tahiti. On the
evening in question the plot developed
quickly ; a comely young woman joined
the crew and we were soon under sail,
heading for one of the small islands in
the Polynesians and moving from right
to left across the screen. We were heading
west. Just before the commercial there
was a particularly arresting shot of the
lovely Tiki, as the yacht was named,
gliding proudly towards the left side of
my screen, true on course.
Imagine my shocked horror when the
opening shot after the commercial showed
the same Tiki moving from left to
right, east again! I tried to say some-
thing, but realised that the fate of this
craft and its adventurous company was
in hands far distant from mine. Yet for
all my concern the skipper, his crew, and
the lass continued to discuss their per-
sonal problems, little realising the mani-
acal twist destiny had taken.
I was not in the least surprised to re-
join the gallant few after yet another
commercial to find the Tiki becalmed.
Now! I thought, they’ll get to work on
that compass and set things right. But
no! The skipper, crew, and girl were
suddenly concerned with the fact that the
petrol had somehow leaked out of the
reserve tanks and they would be unable
to continue their journey. “And the
island is so close! ” exclaimed the skipper,
pointing, in his damnable ignorance, to
the east. “It’s west!” 1 wanted to
shout, but the cry died in my throat as
another commercial came on.
Rejoining these urchins of th; untossed
sea a few moments later I was unmoved
to see the sails puff out with a rising of
the wind. What matters a zephyr of
mercy when its recipients are dunder-
heads! But suddenly my heart rose!
The skipper had actually hove to and
turned the bow to the left of the screen,
He was back on course! My eyes danced
with pleasure at each wave lapping against
the white hull of the Tiki.
My confidence was shattered by the
appearance of the first mate who tapped
the skipper on the shoulder and said,
“Uh, cap’n . . . ’scuse me, sir, but we’re
off course.” And that traitorous young
man nodded, spun the wheel, and brought
that mighty vessel right around and aimed
her for the right side of my set.
I’ve given up the Tiki. Her
course through the waters of time is
beyond my concern.
GEORGE MALKO
ABORIGINALITIES
"CUTTING OUT"
npHEY were “cutting out” the fats on
Carpentaria Downs, in the Queens-
land Gulf country. That’s the colloquial
term for it —laconic, as always, and
quite inadequate. Rendered in a more
familiar language, this reiterated “cutting
out” of one beast from five hundred
interprets itself as poetry in motion.
This element of rhythmic grace was not
immediately apparent to us. Superfi-
cially the scene was one of turmoil. The
bellowing, agitated mob milled in the
restricting right angle formed by a long,
deep waterhole and the primitive “bronco
rail” so widely used in the Outback.
It was then I sensed the almost effort-
less ease with which the thing was done.
No haste, no fuss, no display of tempera-
ment on the part of horse or rider.
Nothing that would throw that great mob
into a welter of confusion or disorder.
Quietly, unerringly, the “fat” was singled
out. Awareness came to horse and bullock
almost simultaneously. Shoulder to
shoulder they wheeled stubbornly against
the press of bodies. Sometimes the press
yielded, and the bullock made a dash for
it into the thick of the mob. Patiently,
without haste, the pursuit went on, horse
and rider weaving like a dark shuttle
through a rippling cloth of russet gold.
Invariably the outcome of each draft
was the same. But there came a time that
day when it was the man’s turn to
acknowledge defeat. That “fat” knew
a thing or two. Perhaps he sensed the
rider’s reluctance to upset his mates, and
the reason for it. Perhaps he was
endowed with more guile, or perhaps he
was just plain stubborn. Whichever way I
it was, he broke away every time and
made off into the growing restlessness of
the mob.
What followed then was more in the
nature of fantasy than reality. Someone
in a white shirt and wide-brimmed hat
detached himself from the group of
riders. Unhurriedly, he dismounted, and
as deliberately began walking into the i
milling mob. With a mounted ringer at
his heels, he made his way through, with |
the Herefords yielding before him, rather
like the Red Sea parting before the
divinity of Moses. But it was better than
anything the screen could portray. The
errant “fat” was the obvious target, and
for once he stood irresolute, shaking his
great head as though to deny the two-
legged apparition that confronted him
That “fat” paid dearly in dignity that day
for his earlier brash behavior. Before he
could gather his wits, he was seized by
the tail and manoeuvred into position,,
as a ship is steered with a rudder.
Dust partly obscured the scene, but we |
soon discovered that the “fat” no longet
had a will of his own. Time and again be
half-turned his massive shoulders, great
neck curved, horns lowered and thrust-
ing to impale his tormentor. But he was
not built for such tactics. A twist on the
rudder brought him smartly to the right
about. Another twist compelled him fo*‘
ward. It was all too much, even for hi®
With one wild, prolonged bellow he gave
in.
R. A. MONCREIFF


ART
THE SACCHARINE FALSEHOODS
The Blake Prize for 1962. Mark Foy’s
Gallery. Sydney.
'T'he overwhelming impression of the
1962 Blake Prize is one of disap-
pointment. In the experiment of a set
subject the committee hoped it would
“provide a sign, an objective correlative
to serve as a link between the spectator’s
understanding and their own” (the con-
temporary artist). One wonders whether
some of the 244 rejects would have sup-
plied a livelier exhibition than the 35
paintings accepted. If, in the interests of
religion, we are to see something of
diminished artistic interest, then religion
is certainly not served. Little or no
Christian experience accompanies this
show.
Eric Smith’s “Eucharistic Cup”
achieves a shimmering color intensity
not equalled by his winning “Eucharistic
Landscape,” without giving any specific
statement concerning the Eucharist.
Such a treatment is non-imagist and
sustains itself as an aesthetic entity. One
wonders what a great many of the paint-
ings in this section might have to do
with the subject also ; they are less
interesting on the whole than Smith's.
However, much as some strive to evoke
imagery of significance in response to
the needs of religion today (Moriarty,
John Coburn and the others), the moment
figuration is used comparisons are invited
from the past. The forms of Byzantium
still attract, thus reaffirming the neces-
sity of an entirely new approach to the
problems in iconography. By compari-
son with the sheer vulgarity of some of
the figurative painting here, the abstracts
seem polite.
In the Darcy Morris Prize for a scrip-
tural subject, Justin O'Brien leans
heavily on the past to produce a pleas-
antly colored winning painting, a
“Dormition of the Virgin" (strictly non-
scripturai. I am assured). It is as good
as anything in the show, but it does littie
to indicate anything that might lead to
the future. Rather, its mood is one of
nostalgia—a little tired, burning with
only the last warmth of dead fires.
A glance at the list of sales of paint-
ings from the Blake in any year is suffi-
cient to indicate something of the vacuum
in which the prize exists. The over-
whelming majority of clergy and laity
apparently feel quite satisfied with the
saccharine falsehoods of the gift shop.
There is no reconciliation between this
low level of taste and the subjective
furies of the abstract expressionist.
Neither is in any way religious. How-
ever, the difficulty is greater than one of
mere understanding. Great religious art
carries experience into exact plastic
terms and in doing so involves the be-
holder to the fullest extent. The trouble
with symbols is the ease with which they
can become lifeless convention. Their
presence in a painting ensures nothing,
much less religious character.
In the few pieces of successful religious
art, architecture or sculpture of this cen-
tury, one thing has been outstanding:
a superlative awareness of the aesthetic
value of form, space, color and com-
position arising through inner necessity.
No amount of intellectualisation will
replace a feeling for these things. The
significant images of the past gained in
effect not just because they were illustra-
tive but because they were the visible
signs of pictures which lived in the feel-
ings of millions: they defined an age.
Films, TV, the mass media now filling
this function, give some clue as to the
task which faces the religious man and
the artist. The religious painting is
bound to be personal, queer, anarchistic!
If in the meantime artists continue to
rediscover the means of creation, the
time may yet come when a new religious
art will arise under a new impulse,
organically. One of the tests of the
Church in our time is to provide such
an impulse. The Blake Prize, for Aus-
tralia at least, is not enough.
J. HENSHAW
ALL-SAVING VIGOR
Ronald Millar. Argus Gallery. Mel-
bourne.
At first sight, it is not easy to over-
come the impression in Ronald Mil-
lar’s large one-man show at the Argus
Gallery that he has put in too much of
the same thing. For the most part these
paintings are explorations of the rhyth-
mic properties of the human body or, in
a few cases, of landscape; whilst tech-
nically they invariably exploit the effects
of a very heavy coating of a brightly
colored paint. In truth, being so strong
and in such profusion, they are a trifle
wearisome. Nonetheless, they are worth
sorting out.
They are, by and large, strongly de-
signed. Close-up, their design is not al-
ways evident beneath the enthusiastic
heaping on of paint; but from a distance
the vigor and craftsmanship of the de-
sign leap out. A fairly large series of
beach scenes and bathers slithering and
tossing in water is a most successful at-
tempt to relate figures to the elements.
Once again, they tend to be repetitive,
and the colours too monotonously
bright, but a selection of them should
make rewarding viewing.
Several of the works shown are in an
earlier, less bold style. A couple of land-
scapes—“ Mountain Lake, Winter” and
“The Towers” — demonstrate a polished
control of a more subdued color range
and of a greater complexity of organisa-
tion in depth. Obviously, Millar has
proved to himself that he can manage
confidently the subtleties of his craft and
put shape into nature; so now he is
breaking into simpler and bolder
techniques. One would like to see the
techniques applied more variously and to
a greater range of ideas. At present,
though the development of the technique
is going apace, it is apt to obscure the
purpose and the experience which un-
doubtedly lie behind it. But, with the all-
saving grace of vigor, this will surely be
resolved.
BILL HANNAN
FILM
DOOMSDAY LOOK
The Day the Earth Caught Fire, Vic-
tory. Sydney.
Tt seems odd, when science fiction is such
A a highbrow form of escape litera-
ture, that screen science fiction should
almost always be at the most juvenile
level.
The trouble is that science fiction offers
too much temptation for the technical
trickery that is so easy for the film to do
and so hard for it to do convincingly.
The clever writer can sketch a universal
disaster with a few impressionistic
touches that freeze the spine ; the film
man’s papier mache holocausts only
tickle the ribs. Significantly, the rrost
successful attempts at film science fiction
have been those, like “On the Beach”
and “Village of the Damned,” which
did not rely on gadgetry.
“The Day the Earth Caught Fire,” a
British slice of Doomsday, is half suc-
cessful. It does not rely entirely on
trickery, though it does have a few


Kstab’ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
•jacksON &
.q'SCLUVAnj
t-0,, PTYLTD J
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Wafson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE ANn FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, Condon, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOK BINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS A OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
■MACKSUL,” BRISBANE
All the
family
will love
/_
Everybody's
rather dismal “special effects” and some
obvious newsreel stock shots which
cheapen and weaken it. Its script (by Wolf
Mankowitz and Val Guest) does rise
above the juvenile standards of routine
screen science fiction, but not much
above the standards of routine suspense
drama.
The film uses the setting of a London
newspaper office to tell the story of the
awesome consequences of the coincidental
explosion of giant H-bombs by both
America and Russia. (The newspaper is
not anonymous. It is the “Daily Ex-
press,” with its former editor Arthur
Christiansen playing his real-life role
and doubling as technical adviser. This
co-operation has saved the film-makers
from making most of the usual howlers ;
it is also quite a nice piece of PR for the
“Express,” which projects, I feel, a some-
what enhanced image of its feverish
efficiency.)
From the shrewd guesses of science
editor Leo McKern and the scoops of his
angry young leg-man (Edward Judd) it
emerges that the combined nuclear blasts
have thrown the earth’s axis out of
kilter, melting the polar ice and causing
world-wide convulsions of nature. This
information, surprisingly, is the secret
of “the Governments of the world” until
the “Express” breaks it.
Then Moscow releases the news that
the blasts have not only tilted the earth
but knocked it out of its orbit and to-
wards the sun, and the fat (if the image
is not too realistic) is really in the fire.
The public accepts the approach of doom
with more British phlegm than 1 find
quite credible. There is a scene showing
rioting beatniks, but the middle class, it
seems, faces extinction with dogged self-
control.
Eluman improbabilities like these rob
the film of conviction far more than the
major improbability of the nuclear dis-
aster itself and, although Val Guest's
direction is crisp and professional, he still
misses the tension that many another
thriller has achieved wdth far simpler
apparatus. And as a warning to man-
kind, despite some pretentious speechi-
fying at the end, the script is too naive
to make its point. There is just one
passage, the Prime Minister’s reassuring
broadcast to the nation, where the film
touches the pungency it should have had
right through. The speech is a delicious
piece of satire —soothing, avuncular,
meaningless, with a little joke about the
English weather to round it off.
But the film is mainly interesting as a
game and moderately original attempt at
a genre that seems to offer the screen so
much more than it has ever achieved
with it.
MARTIN LONG
THEATRE
RED SHADOW'S HORSE
The Desert Song. Australian National
Theatre Movement. Palais Theatre.
St Kilda.
“piE Desert Song” is even more inane
in content and even less well-integ-
rated in form than most modern musicals.
Why should anyone bother to revive it?
More to the point, why should the
heavily subsidised National Theatre
Movement bother to revive it?
One reason, presumably, is that it
employs a large chorus and ballet, and
is, to that extent, a good training vehicle.
Unfortunately, another less worthy reason
suggests itself —that the people who con-
duct and support the movement have let
nostalgia run wild and persuaded them-
selves that this is really a worthwhile
show in its own right—a “Contribution
to Culture”. If this is so we may expect
some future Premier to support, out of
public money, a revival of “My Fair
Lady”.
Apart from the orchestra and princi-
pals, and the elaborate sets, nothing in the
first half of this performance rises much
above school concert level. The produc-
tion is badly paced, and the singing of
the chorus is ragged and its acting
embarrassingly wooden. The ballet is
stilted. After interval things improve,
especially with the ballet, but the whole
show is too long and too slow. Probably
these faults will be overcome somewhat
as the season progresses.
The principals are generally good. John
Larsen sings well, and has a reasonably
effective acting style. Eileen Hattani
and Ernie Bourne clown pleasantly. But
the real star of the evening, if one can
judge from the delighted response of the
first-night audience, is Red Shadow's
horse.
JAMES MURPHY
MOCKING LIBERACE
Victor Borge. Her Majesty’s. Mel-
bourne.
]MfR Borge is very good indeed—much
funnier in the flesh than on record,
and almost as funny as his publicity
would have us believe. Within the limits
he sets himself he is entirely successful.
The basis of his style is politeness.
True, he is cunningly inaudible at times,
and at others mildly vulgar, but he is
never casual in the Danny Kaye manner,
nor coarse like Anna Russell. When he
mocks Liberace (very cleverly) we feel
that this is a civilised estimate, and no
mere stunt. When he does, eventually,
play a classical piece “right through”


Smooth, seamless walls that won’t
crack, buckle or warp
ns
Here the smooth, seamless effect of Gyprock walls can be seen to advan-
tage in this attractive living area of a modern "Sun-Line" home.
Gyprock is a core of plaster
encased in stout chipboard
and cut to economical sheet
lengths.
Two sheets in the 4'6" width,
placed horizontally, cover a
standard 9' wall completely.
No gaps... no old-fashioned
picture rails to break that
smooth, seamless surface.
The return maintenance
visit a builder must make to
repair possible cracks in wall
and ceiling surfaces is now no
more than a routine call.
Gyprock stays crack-free,
never buckles or warps.
Gyprock is a wall lining of
exceptional strength. A Gyp-
rock wall is particularly re-
sistant to cracks caused by
frame movement, vibration
and settlement. Can be
decorated with paint or paper.
Gyprock is fireproof. Home
fire insurance premiums are
reduced when Gyprock is used
for interior walls and ceilings.
White ants and borers won't
eat Gyprock. For more infor-
mation about Gyprock write
or ’phone your nearest C.S.R.
Building Materials Showroom
or contact our distributors.
GYPROCK PLASTER SOARS
Manufactured by CONCORD PLASTER MILLS
Marketed by THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.,
Building Materials Division
Showrooms at: Sydney, Newcastle, Wagga, Wollongong, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Townsville, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart. CSRS9BA
INFORMATION AND PUBLICITY OFFICER
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD.
wishes to engage a young man, from about 25 years of age to 29, for a position in its
publicity and iniormation department in Sydney.
The work of the department is varied, but is concerned primarily with the collection
and collation ol information, and its presentation and dissemination. The emphasis is
on accuracy, balance and clarity in communication.
The qualities and abilities sought are not those of mere verbal facility, but rather the
ability to think clearly ; to be able to distinguish principles from data; to grasp,
assimilate and present ideas and information in clear, well-ordered communications in
letters, printed matter, graphs, diagrams and illustrations.
Previous experience in publicity work is not required. Good education, broad interests,
an understanding of commercial and economic considerations and some experience of
administration, a disciplined, but not unimaginative, approach to problems, and a degree
of drive and determination are sought.
The position offers difficult but interesting work to an able, intelligent and self-reliant
person in the age-range specified, with opportunities for advancement and broad experience.
Commencing salary offered will depend on ability, experience and qualifications and
will be substantial for a suitable person.
Superannuation and help with home ownership will be available after a period of probation.
Applications should be addressed without delay to:
♦
The Chief Staff Officer,
The Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd ,
Box 483, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
we have no feeling of incongruity, and
are not surprised to find that he does it
weli.
His jokes, like most jokes, are neither
particularly funny nor particularly new
—many fell flat in the newspaper
reviews. The humor is in the spaces
between the words —in the delays and
intonations, the shrugs and grunts and
occasional shouts. He discovers it with
us, or just ahead of us, or behind us.
Sometimes it saddens him —sometimes it
sends him mumbling to the piano. Here
he is at his best. His improvisation on
themes suggested by the audience is bril-
liant in every sense.
Mr Borge performs entirely alone for
well over two hours and is never dull.
He is the perfect refuge from local TV.
J. M.
NO GIMMICKS
The Caretaker. Harold Pinter. The
Playhouse. Perth.
Jt is difficult to say why “The Care-
taker" is good drama and good enter-
tainment when it virtually lacks both
plot and action. What it does have is a
reduction of the macabre to the real
through comedy, pathos and brilliant
delineation of character. In a word,
the dialogue is magnificent.
Raymond Westweil's production is
taut, economical of movement, devoid
of gimmicks, never obtrusive, and both
the humor and suspense gain from his
restraint. Highly disciplined perform-
ances are the result. Peter Collingwood's
caretaker is smelly, selfish, snivelling,
every inch a bum but never, as he very
easily might have been, a stock tramp,
This part could have dominated the play,
but Mr Coilingwood, while he properly
exploited his role, never let it disturb
the whole.
Ron Graham as Mick was also com-
pletely credible. He was forceful,
unpredictable and charming. The weak
link was Brian Gilmar. The madman
is. after all. the pivot round which the
two other characters move, and to under-
play him is to rob the play of a good
deal of its impact. A little more
color and he would have been more
convincing. However, this is more a
disagreement over interpretation than
craftsmanship, for Mr Gilmar gave us
some splendid moments, particularly in
the scene where he tells of his experi-
ences in a mental home.
The play itself is a winner, and is
Presented with a healthy respect for the
author’s intention. Altogether it offers
a most auspicious opening to the
National Theatre’s 1962 season.
MARY LORD


THE RED PAGE
PICASSO: BEYOND ISMS
By JOHN OLSEN
Touring his travels in 1956,
David Douglas Duncan, a
“Life” photographer, found
himself in Picasso’s villa, “La
Californie,” and right from
their first meeting a deep
friendship developed. It was
a meeting that ultimately led
Picasso to invite Duncan to
roam about his villa and to
take photographs as he
pleased. “The Private World
of Pablo Picasso” was the
result of Duncan’s encounters
at “La Californie,” a book in
which Duncan employs the
candid technique in snapping
el maestro in the bath, swap-
ping hats with Gary Cooper
or twirling a skipping-rope
with his children. Candid
photography is an unfortunate
method, for to emphasise the
banality of the everyday life
of genius is to create a “per-
sona'' of Picasso that would
make excellent material for a
radio serial of “Life with the
Lyons” class. Thus, un-
wittingly, Mr Duncan did his
idol a great disservice.
Recently, a year before
Picasso's 80th birthday, Dun-
can found himself again at
“La Californie,” and Picasso
mysteriously led him into a
darkened room crowded with carefully
stacked canvases: “A bonanza of art,”
Picasso’s Picassos!—most of which “had
never been shown to the public befcre.”
Mr Duncan's romantic and excited
mind soared. “The greatest buried
treasure in modern art.'' he says, a state-
ment which is not exactly true, because
many of the paintings have been cata-
logued and reproduced by Zeroos.
The result of this visit, however, is
another book, lavish, and beautifully
printed in Switzerland.* “Picasso's
Picassos” has 102 color reproductions
and 536 half-tone reproductions of paint-
ings that are in Picasso’s own private
collection (all of which were secretly
stowed away in the Bank of France dur-
ing the German occupation). “Picasso’s
Picassos” enormity spreads from .he year
1895 (the Barcelona period) to as late as
GOL[?]AGHE ON PANEL. [?]-1909.
1960. Further, it gives us the opportunity
of looking into the great germinating
period of Picasso's art between 1907 and
1915, when Picasso abandoned the pre-
cocious talent of the blue and rose
periods— to surge forward and paint,
perhaps the key work of the early 20th
century, the rough, brittle and orgiastic
“Young Ladies of Avignon,” a work that
in a single blow destroyed whatever Van
Gogh, Cezanne and Gaugin had had left
of the Renaissance tradition. Painted
during a period when Picasso first came
into contact with African masks, “The
Young Ladies of Avignon” stands at the
fountainhead of painting as we know it
today and is an example of the correct-
ness of T. S. Eliot's statement that a sig-
nificant work of art not only determines
the direction of the future but also alters
the condition of the past.
Mr Duncan reproduces six of this
crucial period of .1907. A period which
demonstrates Picasso's exaltation of the
primitive impulse, a volte face against
400 years of Western art with its shoddy
illusionism and wearisomeness, which is
still endorsed by most contemporary
artists today—e.g., Jean Debuffet, who
says, “I would not walk across the street
to look at a Renaissance painting.”
A whole section is devoted to 1936,
the year when Picasso indicted the pro-
mulgators of war in the one assured
masterpiece of his life, that of
“Guernica” —the 23 repro-
duced are good, but in no way
give us a lead up to the horrific
magnificence that was to take
place in “Guernica.” This is,
nevertheless, an important
book which has been badly let
down by Duncan’s otter
inability to make a significant
aesthetic or historical state-
ment. Of a convulsively gro-
tesque “figure smelling a
flower” of 1936 he writes, for
instance: “Awaiting her time
. . . arranging a simple
bouquet in a pitcher—softly
billowing with all ripened
curves of fertility, the aching
pollinating human flower . . .
awaiting her time." What non-
sense —anyone would think he
was writing about a Renoir!
He has an annoying Holly-
wood mystique when he ; wastes
six whole pages with pithy
statements like WHO IS
PABLO PICASSO? On to
another page, WHO IS THIS
MAN WITH FIGHTER'S
SHOULDERS? etc. N er-
theless, this is a serious .ork
through which Picasso's per-
sonality shines. It is a book
which demonstrates most
facets of his hybrid per-
sonality: nostalgic in the Barcelona
period ; fierce and animistic in the
Negro ; analytical and inventive during
the cubist, changing from sweet tender-
ness in his portraits of women and
children to strident vulgarity —sometimes
changing from morning to afternoon.
What is the factor that binds all this
work together? It is that always in
Picasso is a deep fundamental concern
for the human condition where the throb
of the human heart is always present.
This is the quality that separates Picasso
from all his imitators and makes their
cubism seem like school exercises.
He is beyond style—beyond cubism, sur-
realism or any other ism, and it is this
Spanish humanity which will astonish
long after we cease to be amazed by his
form invention and creative eclecticism.
A gain we might ask what has been his
influence on Australian art. The
answer must be practically negligible.
* Picasso’s Picassos. David Douglas
Duncan. Macmillan. £9 11s.


IF YOU HAVE A
FLAIR
FOR WRITING...
Turn your talent into a spare-time income.
There is a constant demand for well-
written stories, articles, pars, radio and TV
scripts, etc., and you can learn to write
successfully for Australian and overseas
magazines and papers.
STOTT’S can train YOU by post.
For details of Stott's excellent correspon-
dence courses in literary subjects, post the
coupon below . . .
Stotts Corres
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 149 Castle-
reagb St., Sydney; 280 Adelaide St., Bris-
bane; 21 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 22 Howard
St.. Perth.
CUI AND MAIL THIS COUPON
TO STOTT’S: Please send me. without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDKESS
AGE. (S.B. 562
No original Picasso was shown here until
1939 with the Sir Keith Murdoch show,
and the unfortunate generation of the
1920 s believed him to be either a
modernistic crackpot or ignored him
altogether. This lack of contact should
never be forgotten by contemporary
Australians, for not even reproductions
of the moderns were available to this
generation.
John Passmore has described to me
how, in 1929, he was shown a Gaugin
print placed on velvet taken carefully
from a locked drawer—which was caus-
ing quite a bit of excitement among
students in Sydney. The angels to look
to were Orpen and Augustus John and
the local hero was George Lambert. Even
after 1939, Picasso’s influence has been
(with exception of perhaps a few mild
flirtations) at the most, indirect. Austra-
lian painters have found it difficult to
cope with his great spatial invention and
then lastly their lack of cultural back-
ground usually precludes any profound
understanding of his Mediterranean
sources. Picasso is intrinsically a Spanish
painter whose physical imagery is not
drawn from France but from his mother-
land, where the bull, goat, horse, bare-
footed men on beaches, women in black
take on a different symbolical meaning
from anywhere else in the world.
Perhaps the quest of Australian art just
at present is finding valid symbols for
the environment we find ourselves in.
A BIAS TO BIOGRAPHY
Henry Lawson. Stephen Murray-Smith.
Lansdowne Press. Bs. 6d.
T'HIS brochure, the latest in the series
"Australian Writers and their Work”
edited by Geoffrey Dutton, has about 30
pages on Lawson's life, about six on his
poetry, and the remaining ten on his
prose. The figures indicate the author's
bias towards biography, and it is here
that Mr Murray-Smith is at his best-
providing a clear and interesting account
of Law:on’s family, childhood and edu-
cation, and especially of the influence
upon him of his redoubtable mother,
Louisa. Apart from a possibly dangerous
habit of taking characters in the stories to
represent members of Lawson's family,
this section is reliable as well as readable.
When the attention shifts from the
“writer” to his “work”, the results are not
so happy. I find Mr Murray-Smith’s
attempt to rehabilitate Lawson’s verse
quite unconvincing. It is based, as one
might expect from an editor of “Over-
land”, on sociological, not to say ideo-
logical, grounds rather than critical. We
are told that Lawson and his friends
“carried through the most profound and
searching revolution in literature that our
country has seen ... poetry had been
given to the people.” But the quotations
from Lawson’s verse given here are
enough to show its absence of artistry.
The prose, of course, is distinguished
by precisely that ; and the chief disap-
pointment of this brochure is its dull and
rather mechanical handling of Lawson’s
stories. Mr Murray-Smith rightly cites
A. A. Phillips’s fine article on their crafts-
manship, and agrees that this aspect of
the stories has been neglected by critics,
but he makes little effort to fill this gap
himself. He doesn’t really come to grips
with even one story, nor does he give an
informative account of the various collec-
tions and their contents. This is sur-
prising, if the brochure is meant to be
taken as an introduction to Lawson, as
the biographical part indicates.
Mr Murray-Smith does discuss Law-
son’s influence, his characters, his
“restraint”, his humor, and his under-
standing of women, and he compares him
with Gorki, but all this strikes one as
rather external and peripheral. The
trouble is, I think, that Mr Murray-
Smith values Lawson not as an artist but
for “the power and push of his under-
standing of people.” This is, of course,
involved in his greatness, but it would
have gone for little in the stories —just
as it does in the verse—-if Lawson had
not been a great artist.
Just how great he was Mr Murray-
Smith seems not to understand. He
speaks of Lawson’s prose as lifting him
“from the rank-and-file of the writers of
his period”, and he acknowledges that
whereas we read the rest for their
historical interest we read Lawson
“because he is still with us”. But he
appears to have no conception of the
artistic sources of this vitality, nor of
the extent to which Lawson outdistances
the others, as well as every subsequent
Australian short-story writer.
Still, this is a useful little book in its
own right, even though it does not
address itself to the most urgent task of
Lawson criticism today, “the establish-
ment of a version of his greatness not
entirely dependent upon the image of the
prophet of the Australian way of life.”
The words are H. P. Heseltine’s, in his
helpful “Quadrant” article of a year ago.
This and other references compose a
short bibliography which Mr Murray-
Smith has selected skilfully ; I should
have added only Murray Todd's lecture
reprinted in “Twentieth Century” some
years ago.
G. K. W. JOHNSTON
MASS OF PERILS
The Changing Patterns of the Middle
East, 1919-1958. Pierre Rondot.
Chatto and Windus. 41s. 6d.
r J''URKEY, the ‘"sick man” of Europe,
kept alive for so long but never
cured, finally collapsed under the impact
of World War I. His Ottoman Empire
was parcelled out among the victors and
today’s Middle East was thus brought
into being. For 30 years or so the
basic outlines remained unaltered until,
in July, 1958, with civil strife in Lebanon,
Jordan and Iraq (and oil shares dropping
25 per cent, on the Stock Exchange) the
period of Western influence seemed to
come to an end. This is the period sur-
veyed by Pierre Rondot in ‘The Chang-
ing Patterns Of The Middle East, 1919-
1958.”
All the countries in this area share in
varying degrees in the general features
of under-development: a shortage of
capital, poor resources in land, water
and oil, a high population density. All
are Moslem by faith, their governments
are authoritarian, their middle classes are
weak, their armies strong. All are harried
by problems of illiteracy, disease and
poverty. All are inherently unstable.
Pierre Rondot accounts for this insta-
bility in terms of the five forces which,
he argues, are centra! to the structure and
evolution of the contemporary Middle
East. They are: the desire of the
Christians of the Middle East for emanci-
pation ; the attempts to reform and


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established 1808 in Reign o)
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
2V.S.JF. Branch:
Kimlersley House,
Bligh O’Connell Sts., Sydney
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOL
situated in the Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Buildings.
Junior House separate from the
rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on application
to
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
THE STUDENTS’ SOCIAL CLUB
(Affiliated to the W.E.A.)
You are invited to come along to tlie
weeklv cabaret dance of this highly re-
spected and well established social club
which meets in comfortable premises in
the centre of the city.
Additional activities comprise social and
cultural weekends at Newport, theatre
parties, social golf days. etc. Age group
is. say. 23 to about 40. and a cordial
invitation is extended to all visitors.
Ring XM 3843 W 82907 BW 7840
revivify Islam; the development of
nationalisms (Turkish, above all Arabs,
and then Israeli); the rearguard action of
local conservatism ; and the ambitions,
pressures and incursions of the outside
world. Each of these he follows through
to explain the emergence of Soviet inter-
vention, for example, or the formation
of the state of Israel.
His aim is primarily to disclose the
trends that have determined the retreat
of the West in the area and to describe the
current substitutes for it. He is less con-
cerned to collect facts than to pick out
the main stages of an evolutionary pro-
cess. There are better books for the
specialist on individual areas —those by
George L. Harris, for example, on Jordan
and Iraq are first-rate, but this one is
probably the clearest general statement
we have on Middle East history and poli-
tics. The text is translated from the
French by Mary Dilke.
There is little comfort for Westerners
in Rondot’s sober appraisal. The mag-
nitude of events —the inflation of the
Nasser legend, the boundless visions of
panarabism, the boldness of the Kremlin,
the achievements of Peking—all seemed
to form, in the words of Gobineau
brought up to date, the “mass of perils
which Asia is piling up to break on the
head of Europe.” Yet the future is not
without some comfort. Arab unity in
the face of Israeli aggression has been
proved a myth, Arab nationalism has
bogged down in the two rivals, Egypt and
Iraq, Nasser has lost Syria, and
Russian penetration has been checked
by Right-wing obstruction. Promising, too,
is the West’s declining dependence on the
Middle East for her oil, and this is coupled
with the diminishing strategic value of
the area in the event of a nuclear war.
Rondot provides no solutions. He
isolates the various issues with some skill
and, although his arguments are presented
without much depth or subtlety, he has
managed to cover a vast field in a short
space.
DOUGLAS TERRY
A SCOTTISH JOKE
Don’t Send Me to Omsk. Roy Mac-
Gregor-Hastie. Macdonald. 21s.
A Scot who lives in Italy and writes for
“La Stampa”, European chief of a
news agency serving South and Central
America, filing stories in Spanish and
Portuguese, speaking seven languages
including Russian, MacGregor-Hastie is
an exceptional man. In addition to his
linguistic talents he knows a good deal
about communists and communism, and
writes a world-syndicated column in
English on that subject.
“Don't Send Me to Omsk”, however,
is humorous in intent. Some of it first
appeared in “Punch’ and the whole book
has the cheerful whimsicality of what the
puzzled Russian allocated to guide the
author called “the English joke” It s a
pleasant change from other books on
Russia.
Like the story about Marx, which the
author told his Young Communist com-
panion to his first Kremlin Ball. In the
years before 1917 there was much coming
and going of Bolsheviks in London, many
of whom visited the British Museum to
see where Marx had written “Das
Kapital”. One such devotee met an
old usher claiming to know an
archivist who remembered the great man.
He begged him to produce the old man,
but also decided to put the ancient to the
test. “Please,” he said, “Many years ago
a great man sat in this chair. No. G. 7.
Can you please remember his name?”
The old man rattled through names.
“Middleton? No. He was G. 6.
Macaulay? I know. That nice Mr
Marx. Came here for years, then one
day he was a ‘Dead Ticket.’ Whatever
became of his book?”
Most of the book is in this vein If
you like stories and don’t mind exaggera-
tion for effect it's all good fun. Occasion-
ally, however, the political commentator
peeps through. As in the description of
a visit to a Komsomol meeting, at which
the members present blamed themselves
for the delinquencies of a fellow student.
The teaching of the Orthodox Church,
the author suggests, is still a strong influ-
ence in the Soviet Union ; though the
party has taken over the congregation,
the concept of “community responsi-
bility” still remains. Certainly the trans-
fer has its historical precedents in the
take-over by the early Christian Church
of the pagan deities. Tit for tat.
Mr MacGregor-Hastie is also a balleto-
mane (and poet). Interviewing Ulanova
he finds her to be “the most ordinary
goddess in the world” who, when asked
about Chinese dancing, says: “I have seen
in China how great is the force of the
Soviet people’s example of creative work
and labor heroism and how sacred is the
friendship between our two great
peoples.” A depressing business, to meet
the greatest dancer of her generation and
hear her parrot off her party jargon.
Fortunately he never stays depressed for
long. If you worry about fall-out, he's
as good an antidote as any.
P. B. WESTERWAY


Divorce Notices
i'O WILLIAM JOHN WEST (address unknown), —
TAKE NOTICE that ARTHUR CECIL GILBERT has
commenced proceedings in the Supreme Court of
Western Australia against his wife IRENE THERESE
GILBERT for divorce on the ground of adultery and
has named you as co-Defendant IF you desire to
defend the proceedings you must file your Defence
in J-Le Central Office of the Supreme Court at Perth
within THIRTY days from the date of this publica-
L° n In default of your so doing the cause may
proceed and the Court will pronounce judgment and
make orders against you in vour absence. DATED
tins ninth day of February 1962.—G. J. BOYLSON,
Registrar.
PICTON-WARLOW & OLLQUIST, of 98 St. George’s
terrace, PERTH, Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
£0 IRENE THERESE GILBERT formerly of Big
Bell Western Australia.—TAKE NOTICE that your
husband ARTHUR CECIL GILBERT has commenced
proceedings against you in the Supreme Court of
Western Australia for divorce on the ground of your
adultery with WILLIAM JOHN WEST IF you
uesire to defend the proceedings you must file your
Defence in the Central Office of the'Supreme Court at
Perlh within THIRTY days from the date of this
publication In default of vour so doing the cause
mav proceed and the Court will pronounce judgment
rii-nm 3 i orders against you in your absence
, tins ninth day of February 1962.—G. J.
BOYLSON, Registrar.
LILT ON WA It LOW A OLLQUIST, of 98 St. George’s
Jerraee, Perth, Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
™ Causes Act, 1959.
TO JOHN CLINTON HOLSTON late of Parra-
NOTICE that BETTY EILEEN
, * ,as a Petition for divorce No.
ot 1901 on the ground of drunkenness If you
Wish to defend you may file an answer in 'the
Divorce Registry Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by the 9th day of April 1962 and obtain
en tu Petition without charge from
CHARLES GRIIfITHS, Solicitor, 107-109 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney, New South Wales.—C. \ H
HARMS. Registrar
ill
HELP
LEGACY
all the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM2OOI.
Divorce Notices
Matrimonial Causes Act 1959.
IN THE SUPREME COURT Of
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO WILLIAM STAFFORD HODSON late of Sydney.
—TAKE NOTICE that MAUREEN HODSON has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4265 of 1961 on
the grounds of desertion If you wish to defend
you may file an answer in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Macquarie Street Sydney on or before
the 20th April 1962 and obtain a copy of the
Petition and Notice of Petition without charge
from lAN B. WALKER, Solicitor, 88 Pitt Street,
Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
Matrimonial Causes Act, 1959.
TO MARGARET SOPHIA McINTOSH.— TAKE
NOTICE that CHARLES DUFF McINTOSH has
filed a Petition for divorce No. 4285 of 1961 on the
ground of desertion If you wish to defend you may
file an answer in the Divorce Registry Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by the 9th day of April
1962 and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from CHARLES GRIFFITHS, Solicitor. 107-
109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, New South Wales.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF r '"'“
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
Matrimonial Causes Act, 1959.
TO DONALD ARTHUR BROWNE.—TAKE NOTICE
that MAT ELENI BROWNE has filed a Petition for
divorce No. 3802 ! 'df 1961 on the ground of separa-
tion If you wish to defend you may file an answer
in the Divorce Registry Mint Building Macquarie
Street Sydney bj the 9th day of April 1962 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without charge from
CHARLES GRIFFITHS, Solicitor. 107-109 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, New South Wales. —C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO MI TTY CAMPBELL late of Waterloo.—TAKE
NOTICE that ELEANOR RUTH YOUNG has filed
a Petition No. 1515 of 1961 praying for a divorce
from her husband JAMES WASHINGTON YOUNG on
the ground of his adultery with you You may defend
by entering an answer on or before the 18th April
1962 A copy of the Petition and Notice of Proceed-
ings may be obtained without charge from MESSRS.
HICKSON. I.AKEMAN k HOLCOMBE, Solicitors, of
13 O’Connell Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ANDREW PEDERSEN late of Badham Street
TAKE NOTICE that MARJORIE
LILLIAN PEDERSEN has filed a petition for divorce
No. 149 of 1962, on the grounds of desertion and
separation if you wish to defend you must file an
answer in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney on or before 13th
April 1962 You may obtain copies of the petition
and notice of petition without charge front
McINTOSH, ADRIAN AND FELLOWS, Solicitors, of
27 Hunter Street, Sydney. If you do not wish to file
an answer but wish to receive a copy of each docu-
ment filed in the proceedings you should file a notice
of address for service on or before such date.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
There's
better
reading
for all the
family in
Eueryhodys
Why not
order your
copy now.
It's only
r«
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 682
Across
* Animal with a sharpener before he has an accident. (11)
6 Ol having an extension by centralising a yokel. (3)
8 Sweetheart in the morning or ar> expression of thank-
fulness. (9)
10 Nothing comes after an early exponent of the crooning
game: (5)
If Order to those wishing to catch fish might be taken
in hand by Carmen. (8)
13. — The German three ride badly. (4)
15.—Born in France. (3)
17 — Most < ckoo fledglings are
found so. (7)
18 — Concerning a boxing engage-
ment. (5)
19— It might put one under there
otherwise. (5)
21 —Ointment wherein the French
number nothing backwards. (7)
23 Beard of the corn. (3)
24 — Belch a couple of prepositions.
(4)
25 — Hoarser attendant at the gaming
tables. (8)
28—Superlative about a lower animal.
(5)
30 — Cleaner to discourage a polite
man. (9)
31 — Rotter sometimes associated with
this mother. (3)
32 It is after a 160-stone window-
ledge and is a reason for
throatiness. (11)
Down
1 — Fur feature has a cold one. (10)
2 Diaphanous lea managed to re-
sort to property income. (11)
3 Tagore’s modified service offered
by a repository. (7)
4 Favorite holding a fuel of the
Irish (4)
5 Severest protection for them go-
ing to a drink counter on leave.
(7)
6 Have now to change. (3)
7 Amorous whistler upset a demon-
stration of fluency. (4)
9—Opening the rat-puree mixture.
(8)
13— It's lar from “dumb" in a famous
Swiss one accompanied by a
polite little man. (11)
14 — Gold-rush town has a dance with
a renegade. ($)
16 —Removes the stomach happening
over taxes. (10)
20—Hat containing a portion in the
surroundings where anything
lives. (7)
22—Mixed ant-lure doesn't take
sides. (7)
26 — Resting coppers after Lincoln.
(4)
27 — He got into difficulty over the
Suez address of our ancestor. (4)
29—One in the morning objective.
(3)
Solution to Crossword No. 681


Si
n\
m
m
■piBCM
D
U
E
WHO TELLS
"THE TIMES?
..... .. Jj
Financiers in London, Tokyo, New York. Experts in
every field of business and commerce . . . unbiased corres-
pondents in Canberra. Every Monday facts from the
worlds business capitals are relayed precisely, concisely in
“The Australian Financial Times”.
/
N
m
m
m
X
N
MONDAY NEXT!
and every Monday
r 6
THE AUSTRALIAN
FINANCIAL T
