

The Bulletin
nm
n
mm
m
• N.G. WHAT THE U.N. MISSION REALLY SAID
H.imiJUI.IWIMM


\tl «o>>
&
N
More power for
the North will speed
Australia’s export effort! 1H
Where do you find some of Australia’s richest'
resources? Queensland! And Queensland today
is undertaking a mighty effort to convert these
riches to the national good..
A huge, £170,000,000, ten-year power expan-
sion programme is going ahead, right on
schedule, to support and develop every phase of
Queensland’s production.
As part of this programme, Queensland’s
greatest-ever semi-Governmental Authority
Loan is now open for subscription.
There is place for you in this all-important
task —as an investor! Substantial returns and
perfect security are additional benefits for those
who support the £3,065,000 Queensland State
Electricity Loan. Make your decision now,
invest all you can!
AUSTRALIA’S HIGHEST GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED INTEREST RATE I
£ 5 * 7 * 6 °/ 0
TERMS: □ 7, 10, OR 20 YEARS □ INTEREST: PAYABLE
HALF-YEARLY, FREE OF EXCHANGE □ DEPOSIT: 10%.
BALANCE PAYABLE BY 30/11/1962 □ NEGOTIABILITY:
SECURITIES WILL BE LISTED ON THE STOCK EXCHANGE
□ SECURITY: THE LOAN IS AN AUTHORISED TRUSTEE
INVESTMENT.
apply now through: your Bank; your Stock-
broker; or direct to The State Electricity Commis-
sion of Queensland, 447 Gregory Terrace, Brisbane.
A
THE ST AT E
'■■mm e|ii v iifl i i1 r R
m. mm mmm mmm mmm m W
C O N M I $ Slow
OF 4USEHSLANO
CONVERSIONS
Loan No 16 (£5.7.6%) matures 1/8/1962
Loan No. 3 (£4.15.0%) matures I/I 1/1962
Loan No. 2 (£4.10.0%) matures I /12/1962
Investors in these Loans are invited to convert
their securities to Loan No. 29 which offers
Australia's highest rate for this class of investment
£5.7.6%.
Underwritten by
Jan Potter & Co.


SIR HUGH FOOT Page 25
A Friendly — Last — Warning?
As I See It Alan Reid .... .... 6
The Opera House Story 12
London Newsletter from Henry
Fairlie 16
But Seriously Mr Milligan! 17
An Australian in Peking 19
Mr Khrushchev’s Crown Princes .. 20
Profile of the Tunku 21
Buying An Under £lOOO Car? .... 30
Two TV Plays Frank Roberts .... 33
Australia Land of Boredom .... 37
Beating the Rabbits .... .... 42
The Budget 44
6
NATIONAL NOTEBOOK 4
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
80 YEARS AGO 8
LONDON NEWSLETTER 15
OUT AND ABOUT 17
OVERSEAS 20
AROUND MELBOURNE 24
FORUM 25
MOTORING 30
LETTERS 31
REVIEWS 33
RED PAGE 37
MAN ON THE LAND 42
WILDCAT 43
FEIFFER 63
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY. LTD
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George St., Sydney
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521: Phone 27-5971
Melbourne: Phone MF 3341. Brisbane: Phone
B 2691, Adelaide: Phone W 4121-3
Vol. 84
No. 4302
THE CORRUPTION
OF THE LIBERAL PARTY
'T'HERE will be a by-election in the Victorian State seat of Broad-
meadows at the end of next week and it is almost certain that
the Liberal-Country Party candidate will win it—on DLP preferences.
But while friends of the Liberal Party may be naturally glad to
see the Liberals win under any circumstances, this regular reliance on
DLP preferences may soon become the Party’s Achilles’ heel. It may
end up forgetting that it should be winning elections on its own
independent merits. That this easy reliance can corrupt the Liberals
was shown in the last Federal election which the Liberals approached
with unwarranted smugness, and which despite DLP preferences they
very nearly lost. In NSW the failure to work out and present a
policy that they really believed in was certainly one of the factors
that cost the Liberals the last State election: on everything from rent
policy to State Aid its policies were marked by indecision. In Parlia-
ment its politicians did not even seem to know how to go about
exploiting the obvious weaknesses of the ALP, conceivably because it
was unaware of them—which in turn may be because, not being clear
about what it believes in itself, it lacked a standard of judgment. (In
circumstances like this the failure of the campaign by the Sydney
Morning Herald” group of papers to split the NSW Liberal Party
can onlv be attributed to the efficiency of the Party machine in building
up its membership and holding the party together.)
This lack of interest in thinking out an independent and dynamic
political programme or philosophy is particularly surprising in a Party
headed by Mr R. G. Menzies. When he formed the Liberal Party
after the war the non-Labor parties had for so long been labelled the
parties of mere resistance which believed in nothing positive that they
had almost begun to believe this themselves. It was one of Mr
Menzies’ greatest achievements that he not only gave Australians a
philosophy of liberalism to believe in, but also made his followers
feel and see that they, and not the socialists, were the wave of the
future. It is this sort of inspiration that the Liberals need now. Smug
reliance on the DLP cannot keep them in power for ever. In view
of the Government’s trade policies towards Red China, even the DLP
may get sick of propping them up.
PUT UP OR SHUT UP!
LAST week the Trusteeship Council’s adoption of the Foot Mission
report (we publish lengthy excerpts in Forum, page 25) and in
particular the recommendations providing a representative parliament
by the end of 1963 spelt the end of Australian isolation from world
pressures. Despite defeat of the mischievous Soviet proposal for
immediate self-government the writing is on the wall. We must put
up or shut up.
While not minimising the immense complexities of speeding up
New Guinea’s political development Australia has a big role to play
in the Pacific area. Our political and economic influence stretches
well bevond New Guinea to the Borneo Territories, to liji in the East,
and the atolls and islands of Western Oceania, many of which will
become free states like Western Samoa which is now independent
of New Zealand.
These island states will look increasingly to Australia for leadership
and help. Courage and good sense in facing facts in New Guinea
will be evidence of our willingness to assume the responsibilities which
are increasingly ours in the South Pacific.


National
Notebook
Our Cover Progress at
the Sydney Opera House
cover this week reproduces a paint-
ing by Sydney artist, Mr Jim
Phillips, of the Sydney Opera House.
Mr Phillips w'ent to the top of the Uni-
lever building, hard by the opera house
site, to get this perspective on the w'ork.
The painting was done only a fortnight
ago, so the cover represents almost
exactly the building at its present stage.
Our cover story aims at giving an up-to-
the-minute picture of the opera house
as it stands, structurally and financially.
Mr Phillips has done at least 20
drawings and paintings of the opera
house, from its earliest stages. One of
these, called Opera House Contract No.
1, won the Royal Agricultural Society's
award of £5OO in the industrial-traditional
section of the society's annual art contest
this year.
The cover painting is for sale, applica-
tions to be made to The Bulletin.
Right Track
Interesting point about the search for
the missing Cessna plane, w'as that it
was finally located by tracking. Though
the plane wtis taken out of its hanger
at Perth's Maylands airfield on June 24
it was more than a week before any
clue to its whereabouts was found.
This was the dramatic appearance at
an outback cattle station on the fringe
of the Gibson Desert of a starving and
exhausted New Australian who claimed
to have walked across Australia from
Alice Springs.
A team of Perth detectives flew' to
Ethel Creek station, quizzed the man,
found evidence that he had been in
Perth recently, flew him back to Perth
and kept him on a charge of giving a
false name. As soon as the plane was
found, he was charged with stealing it.
Modern detection equipment could not
find the plane. An aerial search of the
area for two days uncovered no trace
of it. Following this failure, police de-
cided to try tracking. Gathering native
trackers from Ethel Creek station, they
left on July 5 to follow the wanderer's
tracks back to their starting point. Eight
days and 180 miles later they found the
plane, a total wreck and with one set of
footprints leading away from it.
Though the police party led by Broome
district inspector A. F. Anderson had
trouble crossing one creek bed, they never
lost the wandering footprints at any point
of their epic tracking feat.
Bridge Across The River Cry
(Coni'd)
South Melbourne Council refuses
A to pay, the Commo newspaper, The
Guardian, finds it all a Bolte plot,
University experts find it a fascinating
study in the behavior of tensile steel,
the State Opposition think it’s a lovely
political gift, the traffic police discover
it's a nightmare and some of the radio
stations find it quite good fun.
Last week 3DB wrote a verse and
put it to the music of London Bridge Is
Falling Down. It was such a success
they had it recorded by W. & G. Records
and they sold it at city record shops
on a 45 r.p.m. disc:
Final Curtain
HP me final performance by the Bolshoi
A Ballet at Adelaide's Theatre Royal
ended the life of the 94-year-old theatre,
which will be demolished next month.
The Theatre Royal was first built in
1868. It was rebuilt in 1878, and again
in 1914. In 1895, its flickering gas lights
were replaced by electric lights, but
apart from renovations, there has been
no major alterations since 1914.
The history of the Royal, as it has
always been called, is studded with the
names of theatre "‘greats.” Maggie
Moore presented the famous “Struck
Oil"’, which she and J. C. Williamson in-
troduced to Australia there. Then there
were Nellie Stewart, Pavlova, Gladys
Moncrieff, Katharine Hepburn, Sir
Laurence Olivier and Vivien Leigh and
a stageful of other leading lights.
Sir Laurence Olivier probably paid the
Royal its greatest compliment when he
played there in 1948 with the Old Vic
company. He commended the theatre for
its “intimacy and excellent acoustics.”
The closing of the old theatre brought
out many memories and long associations.
A further note of sadness was added to
the closing by one long association that
didn't quite last the distance. The Royal's
commissionaire of 30 years, Mr John
Mitchell, died the day before the theatre
closed.
However, the 69-year-old stage-door
keeper, Mr Ted Hantken, who had been
at the theatre for 38 years, saw the cur-
tain fall for the last time.
The actual closing was rather a gay
affair. The audience bombarded the stage
with streamers, and members of the
Bolshoi Ballet retaliated with camellias.
There wars thunderous applause, feet
stamping, shouting, speeches, and a soli-
tary cry of “Shame”.
After the exciting performance by the
ballet, the closing was an anti-climax.
When the speeches ended there w 7 as no
singing, no emotional scenes and no at-
tempts to souvenir fittings. The Royal
went out far more quietly than many
expected.
The Royal will be replaced bv Her
Majesty’s w'hich is a reconstructed Tivoli.
J. C. Williamson's are spending £300,000
on the reconstruction, which involves
gutting the entire theatre and converting
it from a three-tier to a two-tier house.
Her Majesy’s. which will open at the
end of October, will, according to
W illiamson's, be the most modern theatre
in Australia.
King St Bridge is falling down,
Falling down, falling down,
King St. Bridge is falling down
My Fair Lady.
How’d it happen, said the Mayor
Make you swear, I declare, I declare
Can't drive my new car over there
My Fair Lady.
Then the architects, just out of bed
“Get some blocks of wood”, they said
Use politicians’ heads instead,
My Fair Lady.
Traffic officers in full bloom
Said the boys will fix this soon
Send the traffic through Nar-Nar-Goon
My Fair Lady.
They said to Menzies, do your stuff
“No sir, that's far too rough—
The Common Market’s bad enough”,
My Fair Lady.
Sydney Bridge makes us sore
’Cos though their bridge is not paid
for
At least the traffic uses it more
My Fair Lady.
King St Bridge has got the bird
They’d like to use that avvl'ul word
The one that should be only heard
In My Fair Lady.


Shirtsleeves
Quests may appear in shirtsleeves at
formal functions during the Royal
Visit to the Northern Territory early
next year. The Queen and the Duke of
Edinburgh will be there towards the end
of the wet season, the most trying time
of the year.
The Administrator, Mr Roger Nott,
said in Darwin this week he hoped dress
on formal occasions would be “accord-
ing” to the climate.
This would mean “Darwin rig”
(trousers, long-sleeved shirt and black
tie) for evening functions, and shorts,
long socks, with no tie in the mornings.
Arrangements for the visit are ten-
tative but the Queen is expected to spend
three days in the Territory, during which
she will visit a cattle station, a mission
and a Welfare settlement, plus appearan-
ces in Darwin and Alice Springs.
With few exceptions, Darwin males
traditionally careless about dress will
hope informality carries the day. Other-
wise there is likely to be a tremendous
rush to buy suits and tuxedos in this
coat-less community.
Adelaide's animal lovers
bare their teeth
A delaide people are hard to stir, but
once roused, they are equally hard to
calm down. A picture of three lion cubs
on the front page of the “Advertiser”
brought a flood of protests from the
citizenry.
The cubs were shown in their trailer
cage at an Adelaide Hills home to which
they had been brought from Taronga
Park Zoo. At the time, their owner was
waiting for warmer weather to begin
training them for a circus.
Letters soon began appearing in the
“Advertiser” condemning the caging of
all “wild” animals, and lion cubs in
particular. One letter said the action was
“cruel and sinful” and another spoke
sadly of “life imprisonment”. There were
various references to “tawdry circuses”
and “debating” performances, and two
horrified accounts of the use of whips.
The RSPCA said the cubs were in
good condition and their cage was
adequate and satisfactory, and a lone
reader asked how people could see
animals from other countries without
circuses and zoos (zoos by this time had
also come under fire).
But the objectors were not stilled, and
there were suggestions that the cubs be
shipped to Africa and all circuses
abolished.
The places to see lions, it was said,
were in books and on films and TV.
The cubs’ owner-trainer Mr Mike
O’Connell, after attesting on a TV “Meet
the Press” programme to the ferocity of
his eight-month-old cubs emphatically
denied there was any cruelty involved.
The dreaded whip? Well, that was only
to scare the lions. It was cracked, but
it was rarely used to hit a lion. To prove
this, a brief film of Mr O’Connell holding
his whip and shaking a stick at one of
his cubs while it jumped unconcernedly
on to a stool was shown.
Chairman Noel Adams summed up by
saying that as long as there were circuses,
there would be animal acts and lion acts.
“And what,” he asked, “Would life be
without circuses?”
What, indeed? i 4
"THE IMPERIALISTS PREVENTED THE RUSSIANS SPEEDING UP SELF-GOVERNMENT
WHATEVER THAT IS!"


Th is Australia
HOLT'S LAST CHANCE
As I see it
FROM ALAN REID IN CANBERRA
HAROLD HOLT
Remembers Selwyn Lloyd
Federal
A Cabinet
made its
Budget decisions last week in the uneasy
knowledge that it may have to revise
them in February of next year.
Treasurer Harold Holt for all practical
purposes got his way. Cabinet decided
against inflating the Budget deficit,
which Holt has already indicated will be
considerably over £.100,000,000, to a
point where the deficit, instead of a
stimulant to expansion could become a
headache to Treasury. Treasury does not
want Australia to fall into the habit of
deficit financing. In its view, somebody
sooner or later has to pay the piper and
the bills. And Treasury does not want
the bills to build up to unmanageable
proportions. Treasury has had fingers
badly burned once. As it found in
November, 1960, with the financial
measures designed to curb inflation, to
seek to change Australia’s spending
habits, once those habits have settled
into a pattern, can produce results
economically unpredictable and from
a government’s viewpoint catastrophic
politically.
But the Ministers sitting round the
Cabinet table were aware that whatever
the merits in the economic arguments
produced by Holt and the Treasury to
support the policy of caution, the
electorate is not interested in the
theoretical merit of an economic policy
but only the policy’s end products. If
the end products were an unmistakably
static economy and that ominous
barometer reading for a static or
declining economy of increasing un-
employment there was every likelihood
that the electorate would cast round for
somebody who would promise them the
opposite type of end products. Because
of realisation —a realisation driven home
by the 1961 Federal election result which
saw the Menzies Government within a
cats whisker of defeat after twelve years
of unchallenged rule—that this is the
political plight of the Menzies Govern-
ment —Holt and Treasury are in effect
being given only a trial run and that trial
run in a modified form.
While Treasury and Holt secured
Cabinet endorsement for their “cautious”
approach, the forthcoming Budget, how-
ever little else it contains, cannot, because
of the heavy deficit it provides for, be
called a “stay put” Budget. There is a
difference in emphasis from the 1961/62
Budget which was aimed at securing as
close to a balance as could be secured.
The 1962/63 Budget reflects the various
pressures exerted upon it. Some of these
pressures came from outside the Cabinet
room and were exerted by manufac-
turers, exporters, trade unions and the
like. Some of the pressures operated
within the Cabinet room, such as that
which undoubtedly came from Labor
Minister William McMahon who sees
in the restoration of full employment
both a social and from the Liberal
Party’s viewpoint—a political necessity.
The 1962/63 Budget provides for as
large a deficit as Cabinet could get Holt
and Treasury to agree could be carried
without dangerous consequences.
As I understand what happened during
the shaping of this particular Budget,
Treasury took a negative attitude. It ex-
pressed its major opinions in the criti-
cisms it preferred on the submissions of
those Ministers and Departments that
inclined towards an “expansionist policy
and damn the risks,” rather than in the
papers it submitted itself to Cabinet. The
consequence was while it was Treasury’s
policy which prevailed, the techniques
Treasury used in getting Cabinet endorse-
ment for that policy enabled those sup-
porting the “expansionist” policy to get
from Cabinet agreement to deficit prob-
ably larger than Treasury would have
preferred.
Actually, Treasury’s arguments for a
cautious approach are quite cogent if
Treasury’s basic suppositions are correct.
Its arguments appear to go something
like this:
The economy is showing significant
signs of improvement. This improvement
is being reflected in the employment
figures.
The full impact of the Government’s
“booster” measures of February last has
not yet been felt.
When they finally work their way
through the economy, they could prove
to be sufficient to meet the Government’s
every need, including restoration of full
employment.
If the Government took substantial
steps at this stage to give the economy
a powerful boost additional to that pro-
vided by the proposed Budget deficit, it
might find within the space of a few
months that it had overdone things and
produced again the boom conditions with
which it had to deal —almost disastrously
from its own electoral viewpoint—in
November 1961.
Whatever political setbacks the
Menzies Government had experienced
as a result of its November, 1960, finan-
cial measures, these measures had pro-
duced one valuable asset worth preserving
—price stability.
It was possible that the problem of
placing school leavers in employment at
the end of this year was being overstated.
Some 58,000 to 60,000 school leavers
were expected to come on to the labor
market.
But Australia’s net gain from immigra-
tion intake had fallen sharply during
1961/62 and was only some 69,407 for
the year.
It was not beyond the bounds of
reasonable possibilty that before very
long Australia would again have a man-
power not a job shortage.
NEXT WEEK'S ISSUE
• the eating out in si-
NESS—Cover Story.
9 MAO TSE TUNG—Ailing and
Ageing.
9 MENTAL PATIENTS—How
NOT to Treat Them.
9 WANTED—A Foot Report on
the Torres Straits Islands.


Treasury undoubtedly hopes it is
right. So does Holt. He has no desire
to find himself in the position of having
in February to give a still sick economy
a further boost. Nor has he any anxiety
to become an Australian Selwyn Lloyd
and to fill the role of scapegoat, as he
easily could.
As British Prime Minister Harold Mac-
millan showed recently, there is remark-
ably little sentiment in politics when the
fate of the Government is at stake. If to
save the ship, a few crew members have
to go overboard that is just bad luck.
The Australian Cabinet is similarly not
likely to suffer from any inhibitions about
damaging Holt’s prestige and standing as
an economic seer if the early part of next
year employment figures go sour.
As I see it, with the political atmos-
phere what it is, all Holt and Treasury
are getting is a trial run until February,
not a season ticket for the rest of the
current Budget season which will form-
ally end on June 30, 1963.
PACKAGING
GIANTS, KINGS AND JUMBOS
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
Tn Camberwell Court, Victoria, the
-*■ other day Mr Wilfred U. Hughes who
appeared for the Australian Consumers’
Association (and who is also secretary of
the Australian Institute of Weights and
Measures) made a blistering attack on
American packaging terms which are
seeping into Australia. He gave as
examples: “Giant-size quart; jumbo
quart; queen-size; home-laundry size;
giant-economy size . . . full pound; big
2-oz . . . super king size; long gallon;
big gallon; giant imperial quart; giant-
size full pound; full 12-oz.” He
described a hair-soap being marketed in
Victoria in three cakes small king
size, medium king size and large king
size. Then there was the tooth-paste
which came in large, super and giant
sizes the large one being the smallest.
Mr Hughes characterised these market-
ing techniques as deceptive and a danger
to free enterprise.
Due to pre-packaging and super-
markets, Mr Hughes claimed, the con-
sumer was being robbed of three time-
honoured rights: the right to be sure of
getting full weight by watching the com-
plete process of weighing, the right to
ascertain the price per unit of measure,
and the right to examine and name the
exact quantity he wanted. He predicted
that unless things were straightened up,
there would be a welter of litigation
similar to that which has occurred in the
USA. (As a hint that he could be right,
one of Melbourne’s most flamboyant
second-hand car dealers was soon after-
wards convicted of publishing misleading
advertisements. It seems that some of
the cars advertised for sale didn’t exist
—but his salesmen had lots of others
they were prepared to demonstrate to
prospective buyers.)
Mr Hughes was appearing in a inquiry
being conducted by a Victorian Stipen-
diary Magistrate, Mr W. J. Cuthill, into
the weights and markings on packaged
goods and into the standardisation of
measuring instruments. Although work-
ing under powers conferred on him by
the Victorian Government, his inquiry is
being held on behalf of all States and
the Commonwealth.
At the moment there are big differ-
ences between the States in their laws
relating to the labelling and even the
size of packages of consumer goods.
Victoria and Queensland, for example,
are the only States which allow metric
as well as imperial systems to be used
by manufacturers. It was only in 1960
that Victoria amended its weights and
measures legislation to make six ounce
packets legal; prior to that you could
have 4 or 8 oz. of pre-packed bacon, but
not 6 oz. As Mr Cuthill pointed out
when he opened the inquiry, manufact-
urers suffered because of the lack of
uniformity and the conflicting require-
ments of the States with regard to label-
ling and sizes of packets.
His terms of reference are not only to
inquire into the requirements and prac-
tices used or considered desirable by
manufacturers, but also into the require-
ments of consumers with regard to
standardisation of packaged goods in
terms of weights and measures. The
marking of weights and measures on
packages, both with relation to position
and type-size also comes within the scope
of his inquiry, as does the question of
whether various classes of goods should
be marked in terms of weight or of
measure. Goods which vary in weight
or measure during storage, and goods
which might be exempted from marking
are other points he is to cover.
As far as measuring instruments are
concerned, the States have already
agreed that, subject to Commonwealth
agreement, a central pattern authority
should be set up under control of the
National Standards Commission. This
would mean that makers of scales and
other measuring devices would only need
to submit them for approval to one
central authority, instead of in each of
the six States where they were to be
marketed.
For packaged goods, it is hoped to
establish a uniform code which would
come into effect by parallel legislation
in each State. The drive for this uni-
formity has mainly come from Victoria,
which is probably why the responsibility
for arranging the inquiry was dropped
in its lap. However, Mr. Cuthill has said
he may go to other States to take evi-
dence. To save time, he is conducting
all cross-examination himself and has
appealed for submissions in writing.
His inquiry is expected to finish by
the end of August, when the findings
and information uncovered will be placed
before technical officers. These will
then draft a set of proposals to achieve
uniformity which will go before a con-
ference of State ministers early in No-
vember, in Hobart.
SYDNEY S.P.
TWO RIDDLES STILL UNANSWERED
FROM RICHARD HALL IN SYDNEY
At the end of the first week of the
resumed Royal Commission on off-
course betting those who were waiting
for answers to the riddles of the where-
abouts of the “Turf Commissioners’ As-
sociation” and the likelihood of evidence
being received from the Chairman of the
Australian Jockey Club, Sir Alan Potter,
were left with their curiosity unsatisfied.
It seemed unlikely that the riddle of
the “Turf Commissioners’ Association’’
would ever be solved as it appeared to
have passed from the sight of ordinary
men, indeed almost certainly died.
Although there were no formal death
notices published the probable date of
decease can be roughly determined from
statements made to the Commission.
The first day of the resumed Commis-
sion had been dull, the second day the
Commissioner, Mr. Justice Kinsella, was
ill, the third day brought a surprise, one
might almost use the word beloved of
afternoon tabloids a shock to the
half-awake court room at ten o’clock.
Mr Justice Kinsella reading briskly from
a prepared statement said that it
appeared he had made a mistake in
granting Mr Eric Miller QC, leave to
appear for one Thomas D'arcy Comer-
ford on June 19.
The Royal Commissioner stated that


in his view it appeared Mr Comerford
was “merely a dummy for a number of
persons not willing to disclose their
identity.” His Honour went on to point
out that Mr Miller had referred to his
“clients” using the plural and added that
he did not believe Mr Comerford could
afford the legal expenses of a QC, junior
counsel and solicitor, unaided.
Mr Miller picked himself up to con-
tinue his battle for anonymity for his
clients. He foreshadowed an appear-
ance for a new body, the Racing Com-
mission Agents’ Association, but said
while members of the association wanted
to give evidence they were reluctant to
do so if their names were published. In
reply Mr Justice Kinsella stood for the
impartiality of the Commission and said
“if the names of people who may be
wealthy or influential are suppressed by
reason of a ruling or request by me
obviously there would be room for criti-
cism.” His statement made it clear that
he would not consider the compromise
of the Callan Park Royal Commission
where certain names of witnesses had
not been published at the request of the
Commissioner. Mr Justice Kinsella told
Mr Miller that it would not be proper
for him, as Commissioner, to ask the
Press to suppress names. At this impasse
Mr Miller agreed to seek further instruc-
tions.
Next morning Mr Miller tendered a
duplicated copy of the rules and con-
stitution of the new association, but
without any names attached. After a
scrutiny Mr Justice Kinsella com-
mented on the absence of names which
he said made it “merely a piece of
paper” and furthermore something like
the old legal parody definition of a cor-
poration “Nobody to be kicked; no
soul to be damned.” Leave to appear for
the Association was withheld but Mr.
Miller was told he could re-apply.
That appeared to be that, but Mr
Miller had one final try. He stayed in
the court-room and a few hours later,
taking what would have been his turn,
rose to cross-examine to be met with
surprise from the Commissioner and the
comment that he “seemed at the moment
to have no standing.” In reply Mr Miller
argued that he was still there for Mr
Comerford and spoke for 25 minutes in
support of that thesis taking the oppor-
tunity to deliver some side swipes at the
off-course tote. Mr Justice Kinsella then
made it clear beyond doubt that Mr
Miller was not appearing for Mr Comer-
ford.
Mr Miller’s performance had been one
to admire. He had fought with tenacity
for anonymity, shifting around his legal
ring with the same sort of agility that
had helped him win hundreds of
thousands for his clients over the years
in damages cases.
But after lunch he conceded defeat.
A minute book of the Racing Commis-
sion Agents’ Association and a register of
members were produced. Part of the
minutes naming eight members was read
into the transcript and became public
matter; however, the register w ; as not
formally tendered, so at this stage is not
publishable.
Mr. Miller asked that the Press should
not publish the eight names and the
Commissioner commented “that is a
matter for them.” The names were
published.
The minutes gave the inaugural meet-
ing date of the new Association as June
28. As Mr Miller had mentioned the
Turf Commissioners’ Association on
June 19, it appears that body had passed
away somewhere between that date and
June 28. Mr Miller offered no epitaph
or even explanation for its decease and
since no other counsel at the Commis-
sion seem interested it must be left to
rest in peace.
second riddle seems nearer solu-
tion. For the first time during the
week there was official confirmation of
the reports that Sir Alan Potter had
voted against the TAB scheme. In reply
to a question the Vice-Chairman of the
AJC, Mr B. Crowley, admitted that Sir
Alan had been the sole dissentient on the
committee. This was a reasonable
explanation of why the clubs’ counsel,
Mr Cassidy QC, showed no sign of
calling Sir Alan. However, the way is
open for one of his opponents to have
Sir Alan called. Mr Cantor, for the
Licensed Bookmakers’ and the Tele-
SECTARIANISM
July 29, 1882
Tn Victoria, the constant complaint
is that all branches of the Civil
Service and honorary appointments
are principally filled by Irish
Catholics. Here, in New South Wales,
matters seem to be decidely reversed.
The road to “honour” and promotion
seems to chiefly lie through the gates
of Orange and Masonic Lodges. From
them we get most of our C.M.G.’s
and other dignitaries. Even the police
force is leavened with the discontent
this sectarian favouritism breeds. Of
seven superintendents in the colony,
not one is a Catholic; and the seven-
teen sub-inspectors number amongst
them eleven Protestants.
>The Egyptian national leader,
ARABI, has practically given the
lie to the colored reports which, as
usual, succeeded the first encounter
in the invasion of Egypt. His
ignominious flight has resolved itself
into a deliberate retreat of a few
miles; the “demoralisation” of his
forces has taken the form of a
greatly augmented army busy en-
trenching itself in a most formidable
position. And what is still more
significant is the fact that the only
Egyptians who have not shown them-
selves to be in sympathy, heart and
soul, with ARABI, are the miserable
KHEDIVE and his retinue of
courtiers, now in the hands of the
British. The “anarchy” in Upper
Egypt, so much dwelt upon, cannot
by any straining of interpretation be
made to bear the significance of
internecine struggles between two
parties of natives. There is not a
symptom of a KHEDIVE'S party,
outside the British lines. Evidently,
therefore, the task before us is not to
“restore order” and put a stop to
intestine feuds, but simply to fight
and conquer the united Egyptian
people.
But it is much easier to get into a
row than to get out of one. Once
entangled in this struggle for the con-
quest of Egypt, the influence of Great
Britain in other directions will be
wonderfully curtailed.
Tn a discussion in the South Aus-
-*■ tralian Parliament upon a Press
Bill, Mr Kingston condemned un-
hesitatingly the anonymity of the
Press, and moved a resolution making
it compulsory for the editor of a
newspaper to print the names of the
contributors along with their articles.
At first blush this looks fair; but it is
not. Many men know intimately the
defects of the organisation with which
they are connected, and it might be
a public service for them to point
out such defects; yet who would dare
under his full name to do so? Would
any ot the gentlemen now conduct-
ing such a pedantic and long-winded
correspondence in the daily Press on
the shortcomings of the Education
Department (and incidentally, on
their own) sign their full names under
their pronouncements? Or, again,
would an intelligent man in the Lands
Office dare to point out any of the
multitude of faults of that huge
circumlocution office, or show how
the public business might be ex-
pedited? If he did, his days in the
Lands would be assuredly numbered.


phone Credit Scheme, or even Mr. Miller
might consider it useful to call Sir Alan
and harass the TAB supporters by cross-
examining Sir Alan into open opposition
to the off-course tote.
Mr Crowley, sometimes a sleepy-look-
ing gentleman, mainly remembered by
the public for his big stake-winner,
Flight, which brought him more than
£30,000, proved most alert under cross-
examination and showed up as the best
of the clubs’ witnesses so far. He told
the Commission, in reply to one ques-
tion, that his blood-horse breeding acti-
vities were only a hobby, not earned on
for financial gain. Mr Crowley’s
capacity to disregard money may be a
contributing factor in his coolness
towards bookmakers. In his evidence
Mr Crowley said that he still supported
the retention of on-course bookmakers
but went on to indicate that this was
only because there was no immediate
practical way of replacing them, even by
the tote. The cross-examination of Mr
Crowley saw a victory one could
perhaps describe it as a moral one
for Mr Cantor, who succeeded, after
argument, in having the nasty tag of
“betting shops” applied to the off-course
tote. The Western Australian off-course
tote system, which, unlike the New Zea-
land and Victorian systems, provides
services for the punter, including broad-
casts and betting information, was
criticised by Mr Crowley because these
“bad features”, i.e., services, encouraged
people to stay on the premises.
OPPERLONG CASSERTY
"SAVE OUR ZERO"
FROM KEITH WILLEY IN DARWIN
MAYOR COOPER
“A national day”
HPerritorians will strongly oppose any
A move to take away the remains of
the first enemy aircraft shot down on
Australian soil. This was a Japanese
Zero fighter which crash-landed on Feb-
ruary 19, 1942, after being damaged by
anti-aircraft fire during the first air-raid
on Darwin.
Mandingo tribesman Matthias and a
band of other natives bailed up the pilot
a few hours later at spearpoint in the
bush on Melville Island, north of Dar-
win. The terrified Jap was armed with
a pistol but surrendered meekly when
Matthias gave him the immortal order to
“Stick ’em up, allasame Opperlong
Casserty.”
Wreckage of the plane has been col-
lected and is now at Snake Bay Welfare
settlement on the island. Souvenir
hunters have been at work over the
years, but the engine, the front end of
the fuselage and most of both wings are
still there.
Darwin people have reacted angrily to
reports that the remains might be moved
to the National War Museum in Can-
berra. A spokesman for the Northern
Territory Arts Council, which is agitat-
ing for a Darwin Museum and Art
Gallery, said the Territory “must keep
that Zero at all costs. It should take
its place alongside other exhibits which
will trace steps in the Territory’s
history,” he added. Captain Jack Slade,
veteran Flying Doctor pilot, said: “No
other part of Australia has taken such
a battering from the ener y. We should
keep the plane here even if only from
the tourist point of view.”
War memories are fanned more
frequently in Darwin perhaps than in
any other part of Australia. On Feb-
ruary 19 each year hundreds gather at
the Cenotaph in memory of the 400
servicemen and civilians who died when
the first and worst Jap raid devastated
the “old town” of Darwin in 1942.
Waterside workers, who suffered parti-
cularly heavy losses, hold their own
ceremony on the wharf, when wreaths
are thrown into the harbor.
Mayor Harold Cooper has even gone
so far as to urge recognition of February
19 as a “national day of commemor-
ation.”
Most of the scars of war are now
healed. New buildings have risen on the
wreckage of the old. But memories die
hard. The movement to “save our Zero”
has wide support among City Councillors
and even from important quarters in the
Administration itself.
This being so and particularly in
the light of the current official drive to
push Tourism in the Top End the
old plane seems unlikely to be sent
farther south than Darwin.
UNIONS
NOT TO RUSSIA
From MUGGA
T ast week when 45,000 or so members
of the Printing Industry Employees’
Union of Australia received their month-
ly copy of the union’s paper, the “Print-
ing Trades Journal”,, read of an intended
visit to Russia by three members of their
Federal Executive, Mr C. Col borne, the
Federal Secretary, Mr E. C. Bennett,
the NSW Secretary, and Mr E. O. Heintz,
the Victorian Secretary. The visit to the
USSR, members are told in their journal,
“came as a surprise”. But the surprise
invitation from the “Cultural Workers’
Union” was not as great a surprise as
the one received by the three members
of the executive when their “working”
trip had to be cancelled because of the
unusual and successful action taken by
over 1000 members of the NSW branch.
These NSW members were so an-
noyed at the fact that their secretary
and the NSW Secretary were taking
Soviet “unions” seriously that they dug
into the rule book and discovered a rule
enabling rank-and-file members of the
union to upset a decision of the Federal
Council. This rule states that a union
ballot can be held on any proposal ac-
cepted or rejected by the Council pro-
viding a petition is signed by 1000
members or one-fifth of a branch’s
membership.
After one particularly stormy meeting
the members who organised the protest
eventually had no trouble in getting the
required number of names. Although Mr
Bennett described the effort by union
members to cancel the visit as “Mc-
Carthyist” and “McCarthyite” the Board
of Management voted against the pro-
posal by 62 votes to 12. What should
have happened then was that the pro-
posed USSR trip should have been sub-
mitted to a nation-wide ballot of mem-
bers for their decision. But had this
been done the Federal and NSW Secre-
tary would have risked suffering humili-
ating defeat.
To avoid this happening Mr Colborne
himself wrote to his Federal Council
asking it to reverse the original deci-
sion to send them to Russia. The reason
given, naturally enough, was because the
Secretary found suddenly that there were
some negotiations to be had with a news-
paper company, discussions had to be
held for Applications to Vary the Award,
and so on. “In the light of the work
now in hand it would be advisable to


terminate arrangements to be absent
from Australia at this particular period.”
In one of Mr Colborne’s joyful circu-
lars when he is discussing the proposed
visit he writes to the Federal Councillors:
“In considering the invitation from the
Soviet Union it was not overlooked that
a reciprocal arrangement with the Cul-
tural Workers’ 'Union' will, of necessity,
be considered by Council when it next
meets. Such an undertaking may at a
guess involve the Union in an amount
of up to £4OOO. There is no condition
of reciprocity involved in our accepting
the Soviet invitation but the Executive
considers that reciprocity could possibly
be a matter for Council decision subse-
quently.”
STATE AID
AFTER THE
LOCK-OUT
FROM A GOULBURN CORRESPONDENT
4 s expected, the Catholic parents at
Goulburn decided at a meeting on
Sunday night, to reopen their schools on
Monday. The meeting was attended by
about 900. Whether the lock-out was
a wise decision or not is still fiercely
argued about among Catholics all over
Australia. But the Goulburn protest
has produced a number of new develop-
ments in the whole question of “State
aid”.
In Goulburn itself a new organisation
will be formed this week of Catholics
to work towards ways and means of
getting some form of assistance to
Catholic , schools. This action will un-
doubtedly be copied in other parts of
Australia. Whatever happens, although
the Goulburn protest apparently ended
on Monday, it is only the beginning of
increased pressure for aid for Catholic
schools.
The fact that Mr Laurie Tully, the
State Labor member for Goulburn (and
a Catholic) straddled the fence on the
issue will probably mean that he will
either lose his preselection before the
next election or, if he stands, will lose
the seat.
Taking the affair as a whole, it was
left to the Communist “Tribune” to print
the truth the dailies were afraid to touch.
A special “Communist Party Statement”
on the front page of this issue goes to the
heart of the matter:
“Last week’s sensational closure of
Catholic schools in Goulburn for six
weeks has been revealed as another attack
by the National Civic Council on the
unity of the Labor movement.”
MIGRANTS
ITALIANS
FROM A CANBERRA CORRESPONDENT
|"|n Wednesday last week a Sydney
afternoon paper, “The Sun,” ran an
article under the heading ITALY HOLDS
UP MIGRANTS which claimed that the
Italian Government had refused to re-
new an immigration agreement with Aus-
tralia and intimating that “the Italian
attitude is a severe blow to Australia’s
hopes of reviving the immigration pro-
gramme.” The article went on to say: “It
is reliably reported that the Italian
Government will not be involved in a
new agreement unless it is satisfied Italian
migrants can be sure of finding jobs
in Australia and that their trade skills
will be recognised here.” The Italian
attitude- was claimed to be due to: (a)
Australia’s high rate of unemployment,
(b) Difficulty in having Italian trades-
men’s qualifications recognised here.
The report went on to claim that more
than 90,000 Italian migrants came to
Australia in the 1956-61 period of the
previous agreement and that about
30,000 arrived under the assisted passage
scheme provided in the agreement.
Late Wednesday afternoon, Mr
Downer issued a statement denying that
relations with Italy were as strained as
the newspaper suggested, and pointing,
out that after discussions of a friendly
nature it had been agreed that the present
agreement would be extended for six
months until January 31, 1963, and that
negotiations for a new agreement would
continue later this year. The “Canberra
Times” the next day carried the story
and reported that the Italian Embassy had
issued a statement saying it wanted “to
make clear that the Sydney report was
incorrect.”
There were some aspects of the present
agreement, and of the proposed new
agreement, that required further consider-
ation but the Embassy was confident that
a “satisfactory conclusion" would be
reached “in accord with the feeling of
friendship” existing between the two
countries.
Despite this, “The Sun” repeated its
stand in an editorial in Friday’s issue. The
figures, however, seem to support Mr
Downer and the Italian Embassy. The
Immigration Department’s quarterly
statistical bulletin for April this year
shows that a total of 91,591 migrants
from Italy had entered Australia since
1956, but of these slightly fewer than
15,000 (not 30,000) had come under the
assisted passage provision: a ratio of 6
to 1. Even if the number of assisted
migrants fell, which the figures show no
indication of happening, the major in-
take of migrants, who came here on their
own initiative or on the sponsorship of
private individuals already in the country,
would not be seriously affected.
FILMS
NEVER ON SATURDAY AFTERNOON
FROM OUR HOBART CORRESPONDENT
Petitions are going around again in
Hobart. The Tasmanian Council for
Children's Films and Television wants
legislation to bar children from seeing
“classified” films. They also want en-
forcement of an agreement made by
cinemas that they will screen only
“general exhibition” films on Saturday
afternoons. Already the council has got
5000 people to sign the petition to the
Government calling for action, and on
July 31 they will put their pL.ns before
the public at a meeting called by Hobart
Lord Mayor Osborne.
Tasmanian classification on films is
in line with the Commonwealth’s, but
there is no enforcement. Mr W. H.
Perkins, secretary of the Council for
Children’s Films and Television, wants,
children under 16 excluded from “adult”
films, and those under 13 barred from
films classified as unsuitable for children.
Since His Majesty’s Theatre and the
Moonah Theatre closed, he said, no
Hobart cinema had changed a program-
me to suit the child audiences which pre-
dominated at Saturday matinees. “The
Absent-Minded Professor” and similar
recent programmes had been suitable,
but “La Dolce Vita” and “Never on
Sunday” were certainly not. “The council
considers that no civilised community
should allow its children to see such
films,’ - he said.
The council for some years organised
a special programme, made up largely
of Rank Organisation children’s films, in
Launceston on Saturday mornings during
the winter. However, they could secure
a theatre only by running their pro-
gramme at a newsreel theatrette before
its normal 10.30 a.m. opening.


M
JL
........ ■,
pip
ilillM
r -
m
WmsmM
r : r Wmm |
m
mmsm
;
m
HI)
s>%m ****&/**,
e wme
What makes a classic? . . . maturity and the fulfillment of promise! The
richness of the famous Hunter Valley in New South Wales reaches its
full promise in Dalwood Hermitage Australia’s classic red table wine.
Only in Australia, thanks to Penfolds’ century-old pride in wine-making, is
such a distinctive, authentic claret available so inexpensively. Enjoy
Dalwood Hermitage more often.
rw 2«9


MIRACLE OF THE CAHILL MAHAL
The Opera House is a remarkable project in more ways than one.
By DESMOND O'GRADY
M.T'hen Mr Martin Carr commented on
” the Sydney Opera House two months
ago he was repeating a number of
criticisms which had already been made,
but it seems he touched some vital
nerve. Opera House officials responded:
“Mr Carr does not know what he is
talking about” but it quickly became
clear that few were qualified to answer
him, and that there was even confusion
as to which were the current plans.
The first touchy reaction, the bluster
and scorn, successive ABC television
interviews which “answered” the
criticisms without saying much of value,
suggested an Establishment ignorant of
the work in hand, intolerant of criticism
and heedless of the mounting millions.
Such an Establishment, it seemed, would
consist of the State Labor Government,
w'hich is mainly responsible for the
Opera House, and the ABC and the
Elizabethan Theatre Trust which will be
its principal users: one indication of this
is that Mr Neil Hutchison and Sir
Charles Moses, both of the ABC, and
Mr S. Haviland, Under-Secretary of the
Department of Local Government, are
on the boards of both the Opera House
Trust and the Elizabethan Theatre
Trust.
Inevitably powerful forces group
around any project which involves
something in the vicinity of £lO million.
They are wary of carping, malicious
criticism and they cannot always dis-
tinguish between well-informed objec-
tions and spite, especially when technical
matters are discussed. They have had
a good deal of both varieties of criticism
since the project was first mooted in
1947 and the most recent squabbles must
be seen in the context of the whole opera
house story which is made up of four
main elements: design and construction,
fund raising, administration, and politics.
Eugene Goossens had not been in
Sydney twelve months when, in 1947,
he decided it needed an opera house.
The reason may have been, as one of his
friends suggested, that he was too lazy
to give repeat concerts in the Town Hal!
and wanted a bigger hall, or that he
really thought it would be, as he him-
self suggested, the most fitting 1939-45
war memorial. At all events he saw a
need for it and also selected Bennelong
Point as the most suitable site: “We
must have a theatre dedicated night and
day to the performance of the master-
pieces of orchestral, operatic, ballet, and
choral literature; a proud symbol of
Australian culture, and a home for the
elite of Australian performers”.
With the aim clearly stated and the
eventual site nominated, nothing was
done. When, seven years later, the State
Government listed among its cultural
aims the establishment of an opera
house and a concert hall to seat up to
4000, eight alternative sites were
suggested: Prince Alfred Park, a Surry
Hills site, a civic centre to be built
between Elizabeth and Goulburn Streets,
Phillip Park, opposite Wynyard Park,
the city fruit and vegetable markets, the
Conservatorium and the corner of Liver-
pool and College Streets.
Both the Transport authorities, who
wanted to preserve Fort Macquarie as a
tram shed, and the Domain trustees
opposed the use of Bennelong Point.
The City Council recommended the
Liverpool and College Street site, but an
article by the architect George Molnar
pointing out that no world-famous opera
house would fit on that pocket handker-
chief of land upset the council’s recom-
mendation.
Molnar had checkmated the council
but the Transport Department was so
fierce in defence of the Fort Macquarie
tram sheds that Goossens was willing to
consider alternative sites when, in
November, 1954, the Lord Mayor, Pat
Hills, made a modest proposal: why not
use Bennelong Point for the National
Opera House, he asked, adding that the
new plan was solely his personal idea,
and further suggesting a contest be held
for the best design.
Three days later State Cabinet decided
to build an opera house. Mr Cahill said
he would call a conference to decide
whether it should be for concerts and
opera exclusively, or for drama, ballet
and opera exclusively. The cost of the
building was understood to be £ l
million. Six months later Cabinet
decided to build on Bennelong Point.
Some argued that only local architects
should compete for the best design as
they were the equal of any in the world,
but this claim was neatly converted into
a reason for making the competition
international. The framers of the re-
quirements had some daunting examples
of inept predecessors in mind: the Mel-


bourne Eastern Market competition had
been won by a design that disregarded
the number of cars to be parked in the
basement; the Melbourne Olympic swim-
ming pool design requirements set the
axis of the stadium running the wrong
way so that competitors had the problem
of the total length of prescribed exits
being greater than that of the stadium’s
perimeter; the Olympic swimming pool
competition called for a 10 metre diving
tower (left out of the final design) which
unnecessarily increased the height of the
hall to 60 feet.
Catching the imagination
Qeven hundred and twenty one archi-
tects, or groups of architects, obtained
copies of the detailed conditions and 217
entries were received, including 61 from
Australia, 53 from the United Kingdom,
49 from Europe, 24 from the USA and
one from Ethiopia. It took the assessors,
H. Ingham Ashworth, Dean of the
Faculty of Architecture at Sydney
University, Cobden Parkes, the State
Government architect, Dr John Leslie
Martin, of England, designer of the
Royal Festival Hall, and Finnish-born
Eero Saarinen, from USA, designer of
TWA’s terminal at Idlewild Airport, ten
days, and a trip to Palm Beach, to decide
that the £3500 first prize should be
awarded to the 6 foot 9 inch, 38-year-old
Dane Joern Utzon (pronounced Yawn
Ootzon).
The assessors said that the fact that
the estimated cost of Utzon’s design
was £3,500,000 compared with the
second placegetter’s £5,400,000 and
the third's £7,800,000, had been a
factor in their considerations. They
admitted that the design was “open to
a number of points of detailed criticism”,
but added “we feel, as this stage, the
general breadth of the conception is an
overriding consideration”. Utzon’s free
flowing, billowing-sailed structure caught
the imagination of most people; it was
little more than two years since State
Cabinet had decided to build the opera
house and already people could see
what it might be like; the project was
well under way and all seemed plain
sailing. The Lord Mayor, Harry Jen-
sen, in well-chosen words reflected the
euphoria: “All we need now is action
for a speedy erection so we can all
enjoy it”.
This may have been the peak period
for enthusiasm. A slump followed. The
March 1, 1957, issue of the English
magazine “The Builder” denounced the
competition as “gravely mishandled”
both as regards conditions and selection,
described the winner’s perspective as
“derisory” when a fully worked-out
scheme complete with perspective was
called for, and gave 16 detailed
criticisms of Utzon’s design. Addressing
the annual conference of the women’s
organising committee of the ALP, Mr
Cahill, for the first time, voiced mis-
givings about the opera house. He had
originally suggested £ 1 million as the
cost; now he baulked at £3,500,000,
saying, “I had no idea it would cost so
much when the project was approved”.
He took up the call of those who
attacked the project, saying that homes
should come before opera houses. The
organising committee asked him to
launch an appeal for funds and it was
suggested that the State Government,
the City Council, the ABC and the
public should together meet the cost.
The Maritime Services Board men-
tioned that it might cost £2 million to
abolish the wharves near the opera house
site.
With no effective fund-raising machin-
ery and political hesitation, the project
looked as if it could go to the archi-
tectural limbo along with other designs
which won competitions but were never
built. The 1937 alterations to St
Andrew’s remained in the planning stage,
as did the 1938 design for the new
Sydney law courts and the 1946 plans for
Legacy House and Anzac House to be
built in Martin Place.
Added to the financial and political
uncertainty there was aesthetic criticism.
Although Utzon’s design had received
lavish praise from many architects (the
London Architects’ Journal’s “Here is
the epitome of romantic architecture on
the grand scale” was typical), Frank
Lloyd Wright, a few days after the Mel-
bourne architectural publication “Cross
Section” hailed the design as a victory
for the Wrightians, blasted at it in typical
style: “Sensationalism, nothing but sen-
sationalism. It’s picture architecture . . .
a whim, that’s all it is, a whim.” He
spoke of “violation of nature” and said
there was “no sense of auditorium or
anything related to auditorium” in the
selected design.
At the beginning of May, 1957, Cahill
suggested . that the Opera House could
be financed by lotteries; immediately
Protestant churchmen protested. A week
later Caucus approved both the early
construction of the opera house and
an appeal for funds but the voting was
24-17, which frightened Cahill, who
feared the party might split on the
question of opera house versus housing.
The next day Cahill announced that the
plans for financing the opera house
would be deferred until the annual State
ALP conference on June 15 gave its
opinion. The State conference approved
the project. About the same time the
Opera House Committee was enlarged
and two advisory panels, one on music,
the other on drama, went to work.
Despite Mr Seiffert, the State Member
for Monaro, who led opposition com-
plaints on the grounds that it was for
“silvertails”, the project did again seem
a possibility.
In view of subsequent controversies
it is worthwhile noting that the technical
advisory panels, in September, 1957,
asked Utzon “to suggest how best in
either hall to provide for an opera
audience of not less than 1700 and not
more than 2000, while still making it
possible to limit seating in the small
hall to 1200 for dramatic purposes”.
The problem of raising finance became
the central one for some time. When
the details of the Opera House Lottery
were announced on September 25, 1957,
the Anglican Coadjutor Bishop of
Sydney, the Rt Rev W. G. Hilliard, said
“the whole thing is deplorable” but the
attempt to raise money by other means
proved a dismal failure.
The Cahill Mahal
FThe Opera House Appeals fund was
limping along. On June 21, 1958, it
was decided to cut back the Appeals
fund staff for the donations in the pre-
ceding month had been £1164/11/10
while expenses were £691/19/7. In
September it was still limping back-
wards: salaries and other expenses since
June had been £728, whereas ordinary
gifts received during that period
amounted to £4BO. When the opera
house appeal fund was launched
£235,000 was promised within an
hour; a year later the fund totalled only
£26,000 more.
At this low point the London con-
sulting engineer, Ove Arup, said the
opera house should not cost more than
£5 million. Actors’ Equity attacked the
decision to spend £6 million on “a
gargantuan edifice which commercial
entrepreneurs will not use”. Mr Chaffey,
a Country Party MLA, hinted at the
possibility of the opera house being
declared illegal because there had been
no enabling bill passed through the
proper parliamentary channels. Ten
members of the National Pensioners
Society petitioned the Attorney-General
for NSW because they claimed that the
Opera House was an illegal project.


It sounded like the end of the Opera
House story; it was barely the beginning.
The tower at Fort Macquarie had top-
pled only a few months before, Benne-
long Point was a waste. Civil and Civic
Contractors Pty Ltd signed a £1,397,878
contract for the first stage of the work,
and on February 2, 1959, after the
Premier had installed a plaque, six jack-
hammers and a bulldozer started at the
blast of a police car’s siren: the Cahili
Mahal was under way.
Eight months later, shortly after
announcing that the Opera House would
open on Australia Day, 1963, Mr Cahill
died. At times he was fearful of the cost
of the project he had fostered and even
more afraid that it might split his Party
but his most constant opinion of it was
“it’s tremendous". He was attacked for
making political capital of it, but he
protested that the Opera House was non-
political and probably believed it: he
came to conceive it as a product of the
vision of an elder statesman.
The vision was bequeathed to Mr
Heffron who still had to find the money
to pay for it and, moreover, a year after
work had begun, had to introduce a bill
to provide for the construction and to
validate the contract and expenditure
already incurred. Mr Askin, the Liberal
leader, raised an alarm: the eventual
cost, he said, would probably be around
£lO m. Mr Heffron, heedless of the
future, said he did not think anyone
in his right senses would make such
an estimate and the Sydney Morning
Herald commented “the public can only
cordially agree”.
Long-range problems
/”<ivil and Civic began burrowing into
the rubble of the Point: they had to
relocate a major stormwater channel
which would have protruded through
the stage machinery floor of the main
hall, and find their way through 7 foot
of sandy clay and 12 foot of sandstone
rubble filling to reach a solid rock
foundation and anchor the whole con-
struction so that it would not one day
began to sprout with steel, Utzon in
Denmark was drawing up successive
drafts of the plan, and in London Ove
Arup, the engineers, were trying to find
how to translate it into engineering
terms. The fund-raising question was
still acute: the Opera House Appeals
Committee thought of employing pro-
fessional fund raisers, Raymond Stocker
and Co. Pty Ltd, who promised sen-
sational results but asked £-20,000 plus
expenses irrespective of their success.
The Appeal committee showed com-
mendable sharpness by not employing
Mr Stocker but some of his methods,
and they did work with greater energy
and success. Still the £356,400 col-
ffeted In the first two years could not
compare with the results of the lotteries
which were bringing in more than £1
million yearly.
The immediate problems were being
attended to, the long-range ones were
unresolved; the constantly postponed
date for the Opera House's completion
due to the modifications demanded and
the difficulties encountered in such a
novel structure, meant that no firm
arrangements could be made about the
opening festival, nor a manager or other
executives appointed, and this was linked
with the major question of the Opera
House's policy once the building was
completed.
This holds true today. Civil and Civic
will complete the first stage of the work
in a few months. The Opera House
stands like an uncompleted dam, a white
elephant, a giant rocket pad, an ex-
tension of Luna Park, according to the
way you look at it, but its immediate
and distant future is hazy.
When one visits the site the tracery
of steel scaffolding and the concrete
emplacements visible from the ferries
become part of a more comprehensible
picture. If one mounts the observation
platform on the Tarpeian Way hill the
layout of the two main halls is revealed
and at a press of a button Professor
Ingham-Ashworth’s fruity tones explain
what is going on. But it is only by walk-
ing around the site that one can realise
its complexity and size.
The most spectacular feature of the
construction at this stage is the canti-
levered concrete concourse: on the out-
side the steps are broad (25 feet) and
sweeping enough for a Roman triumph;
they should provide strenuous exercise
for those who must mount them to enter
the building; those who arrive by car
will drive underneath the steps to dis-
embark in the floodlit, “covered way”,
320 feet wide and 150 feet deep, and
mount an internal stairway. Fifteen
feet above their head they will see the
underside of the steps, 100,000 tons of
freestanding folded concrete; a span of
170 feet and not one beam to support it.
With the first stage of the construction
within three months of completion, a
trip around the site is like an inspection
of an archaeological excavation. The
walls stand about 60 feet above ground
level, but the basements are below high
tide level; the site is honeycombed with
rooms and the experimental theatre,
which is an addition to the original
design, is under the main hall.
An underground city
Tt could be a vast underground city
which is being slowly uncovered. Pro-
ceeding from the entrance stairs, one
walks alongside a vast pit and is told
that it will be filled by the stage of the
main hall. In the pit the complex mach-
inery for the lifts which make up the
stage will be installed, and above it are
the scenery workshop levels where the
sets will be loaded onto the lifts and
raised to the stage. Beyond the pit the
Greek arena style seats rise evenly back
to rim the sky. Walking under the slop-
ing tiers one comes to the balcony poised
above the harbor looking over to Kirri-
billi Point, down towards Vaucluse and
up at the Bridge. Behind you, on the con-
crete wall supporting the seats, university
students have written MAMMOTH
BARBERS in mammoth letters and
black paint on highly finished surface
which would take a small fortune to
prepare again; the builders hope that
weather will erase it—otherwise it could
be there for the opening night when it
might be turned to advantage by pre-
senting the Barber of Seville.
Returning from what will be one of
the foyers to the broadwalk which runs
from the top of the entrance steps past
the stage to the seats, one sees, on the
left, the hole which will take the re-
volving stage of the minor hall and
Utzon’s solution to the challenge the
point site offered becomes clear. Many
of the architects, faced with the prob-
lem of putting two sizeable halls on a
narrow spit of land, placed them end on
end; Utzon, however, placed them side
by side. This made it easier to obtain
his design’s moulded effect which is so
consonant with site shape but it also
meant there was no space for the side
stages traditionally used in opera pro-
ductions.
The space at the sides of the stages
is still further reduced by the fact that
the back of Utzon’s stages are at the
top of the stairs with the seats rising
away from them towards the harbor.
The audiences must mount the stairs,
then pass the stages before reaching their
seats and room must be allowed for
them to pass.
Without room, then, at the sides of the
main stage Utzon had to use the space
under it so the whole stage is made up
of lifts. This arrangement, and the
difficulties of presenting opera in the
Opera House, have been discussed ad


nauseam in the last few months. It has
been claimed the lift method is expensive
and, in fact, the machinery which is
being made by Waagener-Biro in Austria
will cost £1.2 million but defenders of
the plans say all the expense is at the
beginning, the machinery is not ex-
pensive to operate and space for side
stages is valuable; the critics say this
stage technique is cumbersome, the de-
fenders that it is the most modern
method; the critics say that it requires
two sets of stage hands, the defenders
say that it requires no more hands. A
related controversy has raged about the
stage itself, about its shape which is
determined by the site and about the
position of the dressing rooms. There is
no question that the opera house will
function but critics such as Mr Carr
have said that for the £lO million or
so we will spend we are not getting the
best.
How cultural will it be?
But the Opera House, of course, is not
built for opera, at least that is not
its principal purpose. That’s just a con-
fusing way we have with titles. It
would more aptly have been called the
Goossens Cultural Centre or something
of that sort. Even in the main hall,
which has been so heatedly discussed,
concerts will make up the bulk of the
performances; the Opera House should
become the permanent home of the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra. This dual
function for the main hall has been
another cause for controversy. The con-
ditions of the contest for the Opera
House called for a large hall seating
between 3000-3500 and designed to be
used for:
• Symphony concerts (including organ
music and soloists).
• Large-scale opera.
® Ballet and dance.
• Choral.
• Pageants and mass meetings.
What the current plan provides for,
however, is seating for 2900 at concerts
and for 1900 at opera. Those architects
who opposed the award going to Utzon
made one of their attacks precisely on
the ground that his maximum seating
capacity did not come up to the require-
ments and that the opera seating
capacity is only half that laid down in
the conditions.
They complain that such capacities
will not achieve one of the original
purposes of reducing the number of
Sydney Symphony Orchestra repeat con-
certs. Utzon’s defenders claim that
2900 seating for concerts is close enough
to both 3000 and to the ideal figure for
acoustics, and that the technical advisory
panel requested a hall seating 1900 as
the most desirable figure for an opera
audience. It was thought the different
capacity hall could only be attained by
moving the walls but Utzon has achieved
the same effect by seating 1000 on the
opera stage for concerts. In this way
he has at the same time designed a
perfect concert hall and a perfect opera
hall.
But this is still to confine attention to
the main hall. The second hall, seating
1100, will be used for dramatic presenta-
tions, intimate opera, chamber music,
concerts and recitals, and lectures. There
is a third, small chamber music hall,
the already mentioned experimental
theatre which will seat 400, the restaur-
ant overlooking the harbor seating about
250, a 70 foot by 70 foot rehearsal
room, a hive of workshops, dressing
rooms and offices not to speak of the
four rooms with private baths for two
conductors and two leading soloists, the
foyer for artists only, and the literary
adviser’s office.
The shells will be added next, then the
fittings installed. The shells, as every-
body knows, are not what they used to
be: they are ampler, and black liqes have
been added to them. The slight
amplification makes the shells only
a few feet shorter, still higher than the
roadway of the Bridge. The modification
was advised by Arup and the lines on
the surface are a structural necessity,
but there is no need for them to be
black. They could be white and in-
distinguishable, but Utzon feels a black
thread will emphasise the shape.
If all goes well, in three months the
second stage of construction will be
under way and a manager appointed.
Then the question of the opening and
the policy of the Opera House should
be decided. It is believed that the
manager shall be a businessman who
does not control artistic policy; he shall
let and supervise the halls while the
Elizabethan Theatre Orchestra Trust
may control the opera company and
the ABC orchestra.
There are thorny problems con-
nected with building an opera house
but they are no thornier than those met
in running it.
How “cultural” is it to be? It is to be
wired for international conferences; will
it be used for mass popular entertain-
ment, for fads on the lines of rock ’n’
roll and the twist? If not, will it be
subsidised if more “cultural” entertain-
ment does not pay? How can it best
be used to encourage the growth of
national drama, ballet, opera, music?
Will support be on a State or Federal
basis? How long will the opera season
run? Can a competent staff be given
year round employment? The Opera
House Trust must come up with the
answers to a multitude of such long-
range questions and also arrange an
appropriate opening festival.
A miracle
IV/Jr Haviland, the Chairman of the
Opera House Executive Committee,
made a statement about the opening in
August last year. At that time he
thought 18 months would be adequate
time to make firm bookings with the
artists but the reaction to the statement
has probably disabused him. Much more
time is needed if we are to obtain the
best; it may be available because the
approximate finishing date will be known
18 months beforehand and after that
there will be a running-in period before
the opening.
It is hard to understand why an opera
has not been commissioned for the
opening festival; the payment could be
handsome. Money is no object with
the Opera House. That is part of the
Opera House miracle. For that is what
the whole project is. Who would
have imagined that Sydney, which has
spawned so many ugly public buildings
all this century, should suddenly pro-
duce such a lovely swan? Who could
predict that politicians of Irish descent,
so good at holding power and so devoid
of vision, should come up with an
ambitious scheme? Who would think
that a commercial democracy, where
each man is lord of his own cabbage
patch, would build a proud, handsome
public building? Who would have bet
that, in a country where austerity is
constant if unrecognised, limitless money
would be found? Who would have
thought the arts would find a patron,
a government patron, who not only
made pious promises but stood by them?
Having awarded the prize to Utzon
there is no sensible alternative to trust-
ing his devotion and competence. There
has been talk of the money he is making
out of the project but his fee is fixed
at the customary percentage of the final
cost. Certainly the estimate of this rises
constantly but this is because everything
in the Opera House is new, it has never
been tried before and they have to find
how it will be built as it goes along.
Both Utzon and Arup would make more
money if employed on less novel pro-
jects. They, too, are part of the miracle.


London Newsletter
THE 630-SEAT QUESTION
Aftermath of the Macmillan massacre
From HENRY FAIRLIE
Tf the Conservative Party were not in
its eleventh year of office, and if the
Government were not in electoral diffi-
culties, the new Cabinet would be
acknowledged to be one of the strongest
of this century and, more pertinently,
almost the strongest which could be
recruited from the present House of
Commons. Even if Mr Macmillan had
had both front benches at his disposal,
he could hardly have brought together a
more intelligent or more powerful team.
It is pointless not to recognise this.
Politically, it is immensely powerful.
The Conservative MPs who have pub-
licly complained about its composition
Mr Nigel Birch, Mr Gerald Nabarro,
Lord Lambton and Sir Harry Legge-
Bourke may be likeable and even
popular, but none of them are of obvious
political weight. It should be noted, too,
that many of the critics of the changes at
the July 17 meeting of the Conser-
vative back benches finance committee,
with Mr Birch in the chair, were habitual
rigid Right-wingers in financial and
economic policy. Of course, many of the
ordinary loyal centre of the party are
disturbed: a new Government (for such
it is) is likely to cause electric storms.
But on the whole the voluble Conserva-
tive critics are the eccentrics and the
marginally loyal.
Tt is this that points to the real source
of the Cabinet’s strength. It need not
fear opposition from inside the party,
however disturbed it may be at the
moment, because there is nowhere the
opposition can come from. Its composi-
tion, in fact, perfectly reflects the most
important element in the composition of
the Parliamentary Party, the dominant
influence of the party’s central organs:
the professionals at Central Office; the
officers of the National Union (who
inhabit the same building); and the
peripheral organisations whether
established like the still influential Re-
search Department, semi-detached like
the Conservative Political Centre, or
merely free-lancing, like the One Nation
Group.
At the top of the new Cabinet stand
the representative of these bodies: Mr
Butler, Mr Macleod and Mr Maudling;
Mr Powell, Sir Keith Joseph and, of
course, Mr Edward Heath, who will, I
suppose, return one day from the Con-
tinent, crying with appropriate ecstasy.
They form a powerful, united com-
bination, and they can be as sure as any
Cabinet that they represent the real
power in their party: the most reassuring
thought which a band of Ministers can
ever take to bed each night.
For the same reason, they have not
only strength but coherence. There are
precise and real differences of attitude
and opinion between them, and each has
the intellectual capacity to follow his
own line. But they all think in broadly
the same categories: they all represent
what Mr Biggs-Davison meant recently
when he accused the Government of
being a combination of Tory men and
Whig measures.
Qince 1945, their combined influence
has killed the Right within the party:
it is now hardly possible to discern it.
Smoke comes from the chimney-stacks
at Hatfield, and one must assume that
Lord Salisbury is there, nursing old sores
by his fireside. The Monday Club pre-
sumably meets, but without making any
Minister fear Tuesday.
Lastly, the Cabinet is strong by its
sheer intelligence. I am the last person
to confuse intellectual with political
capacity. But what Mr Macmillan’s
Government has lacked from the begin-
ning is a streak of intellectual severity.
Mr Butler, Mr Macleod and Mr Maud-
ling, Mr Powell, Sir Keith Joseph and
Sir Edward Boyle, their minds fascinat-
ingly different and acting on each other,
are capable of supplying this. It is as if
Mr Macmillan had at last found out
what it was that Trollope missed and
not a century too soon.
It is, then, a strong Cabinet: where,
and how, will that strength tell? First,
and above all, in the House of Com-
mons. By next January, barring a com-
plete failure of capacity or nerve, the
new Front Bench should have established
a formidable ascendancy in the House:
given time, this should be of crucial im-
portance. Gradually, the opinion of the
House seeps through and becomes the
opinion of the country. How it happens,
no one can be sure, but it always does.
The reputations of men, measures and
administrations are still made in one
place only, in the chamber, lobbies and
corridors of the House of Commons.
No one knows this better than Mr
Macmillan: his strength has always been
that he has rested his position on the
support of the party at Westminster.
“The country”, as he has said, “can still
be led only from the House of Com-
mons”. It is foolish to ignore this funda-
mental assumption in all his political
strategy.
What is almost as important is that
Conservative MPs will soon have some-
thing to talk about in their constituen-
cies, especially to their executives and
associations. It has been depressing each
Monday in the past few months, to read
the weekend speeches of Conservative
members. They have been reduced, like
Ramsay MacDonald, to bleating “on, on
and on; up, up and up”; but without even
MacDonald’s Highland capacity for self-
deception. Whatever else may be wrong
with Mr Macmillan’s team, it will
supply, especially on the home front,
some intellectual grit. Perhaps even Mr
Macmillan himself will no longer reserve
his more thoughtful utterances for the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
and the American newspaper publishers.
/'’kF the key appointment, it seems to me
” too early to say anything relevant.
Mr Maudling could be a commanding
Chancellor, he could be a disastrous one.
But he has recently shown his ability to
move with political precision. His
address to his constituents a month ago
was not only a remarkably cogent docu-
ment: it was superbly timed, and super-
bly placed. He has given the impression
until recently of holding himself back, as
if he was waiting to judge the right
moment to make his bid for the highest
office. When he decided that the
moment had come last month, he did not
make a speech or give an interview: with
a cunning worthy of Peel, he addressed
his constituency association in its news-
letter, and secured for it the maximum
publicity. This political alertness is not
to be despised.
But there is, of course, one man’s
mind which one would like to be able to
read more than any other. Mr Mac-
millan may have determined the timing
of his changes abruptly: indeed, it
seems clear that he did. But the coher-
ence and shape of the changes equally
suggest that he had been contemplating
them for some time. I cannot see —
given the year, the month and the by-
elections—that he could have done any-
thing else but try to recreate the policy
and image of his Government by recon-
structing it from top to bottom.


BUT SERIOUSLY,
MR MILLIGAN
"I am remembered , but not revered”
By PATRICIA ROLFE
English comedian Spike Milligan
does not come in a prewrapped
package or in neat, bite-sized
portions. He comes in large untidy
chunks, which you have to trundle away
yourself, trim off and cut and pack into
reader-sized pieces. There is no ABC
publicity department version of Milligan.
Milligan comes whole.
In a deck-chair in the backyard of his
parents’ house at Woy Woy, NSW, his
feet in carpet slippers and his unshaven
face turned towards the winter morning
sun, Milligan in an hour or so gives you
large chunks of Milligan on The Estab-
lishment, Milligan on Western civilisa-
tion, Milligan on the demise of the
Goons, Milligan on Australia. Prodded,
he gives you Milligan on Milligan.
The fascinating new discovery about
Milligan seems to be that he is “serious”,
meaning, presumably, that he doesn’t
make funny faces at himself in the
shaving-mirror each morning. Milligan,
in fact, is a far more humorous, as well
as lucid, talker than most comedians.
Naturally, he is serious about some
things. One of these is his living-humor.
“Humor is the only weapon in the
hands of the little man,” he said, “and
the people up top don’t know how to
put it together to make it work.”
The old, old discovery about Milligan
is that he is difficult to interview. He
may be, but he is easy to talk to, even
above, below and around the passing of
cups of tea, the adjusting of deck-chairs,
the departures on shopping expeditions,
which make up a quiet morning in an
Australian home.
Spike Milligan seems now to look back
on his Goon days as something in pre-
history. Harry Secombe, he said, has
gone back to variety from which he
came to the Goons. He does the Palla-
dium in winter and the seaside theatre
circuit in summer. Peter Sellers, is, of
course, an internationally known film-
star. Of himself, Milligan says: “I am
remembered but not revered.”
“When we were finishing up with the
Goons,” Milligan said, “Peter said that
he was getting out there where the big
stuff was. He said he was going to make
a million, so that he could tell all the
people who were idiots that they were
idiots. And that, of course, is just what
he has done.
“I still see Peter,” Milligan went on,
looking through the gaps in the fibro
cottages towards the water. “I had a
letter only last week. He said he was
thinking of hiring Lady Docker’s yacht
to cruise around the Greek islands. Don’t
think I’m bitter about it, and don’t think
for a minute I wouldn't get out among
the big stuff myself if I could, but he
went his way and I went mine.”
If Sellers got out and made his million
before he told people who were idiots
that they were idiots, while Milligan once
or twice permitted himself that luxury,
without the simple precaution of making
his million first, that is because Milligan
is Milligan. And Sellers is Sellers.
In the four years since the Goons
finished, Milligan’s career, to piece it
together from his talk, runs rather along
the pattern of his inconsequential
comedy; hopes raised and dashed, an
abyss yawning when he might have
expected solid ground, battling against
bland indifference when he should have
met warm encouragement. It is hard to
pinpoint just what has gone wrong. Mil-
ligan’s name is still known. When he
remarried recently admirers turned up in
their hundreds. It is really only that he
himself feels so badly the lack of satisfy-
ing work.
“Now you might think that .omeone
would come along and ask me to write
a play for them,” he said. “After all, if
you know a cobbler you get him to mend
your shoes. And 1 am a playwright, but
no one has ever asked me to write a
play.
“I wrote 50 plays for the Goons.
Fifty half-hour plays and there were
enough ideas in each one of them for
a full-length play. I think N. F. Simpson
is the funniest writer at present in Lon-
don. His play The One Way Pendulum’
is a great success, but I still believe there
isn’t more substance in it than in our
Goon shows, but everybody dismissed
them as ‘just a comic series’. ‘Variety’.”
Milligan admitted that someone had
asked him to write a play.
“Five young actors, all of them with
their teeth made in Oxford or Cambridge,
came and asked me if I had a play. You
know, like you ask a fishmonger if he
has a pound of fish and chips. They
call themselves Tomorrow’s Audience,
but I don’t think they’ll ever get to
tomorrow. Anyway, John Antrobus had
an idea I thought I could do something
with. The result was ‘The Bed-Sitting
Room’. It was put on at the Marlowe
Theatre, Canterbury about the first
play put on there since Marlowe died.
Kenneth Tynan praised it, but nothing
came of it. It didn't move to the West
End. But Bernard Miles, who’s a friend
of mine, will put it on at the Mermaid
when I get back. I’m going to play in it
and l intend to ad lib. like mad.
“But for heaven’s sake don’t call it a
play. Don’t think I’m jumping on the
aesthetic bandwagon, getting out among
the beards. In an age of falling standards
I suppose you might call it a play,
because these days everybody is writing a
play. You know, a taste of honey, a
taste of chips. Things like ‘The Hostage’,
which was just a bric-a-brac of ideas
based on the frailest of things. These
days you could give a lecture on botany
and call it a play. Like those things of
Pinter - studied lessons in boredom and
lack of communication. Not plays, in
fact. Just human stenography.”
Milligan said that although he might
not like the plays of Pinter, he did
admit they represented something differ-
ent in the English theatre, something
beyond drawing-room comedy. How-
ever, he did not feel exactly wide-eyed
about the sudden desire of managements
to try experimental plays.
“There is just so much money in the
theatre they can try anything without
worrying too much about losses,” he said.
“And these new plays get the same old
audiences. I went to lonesco's ‘Rhinoc-
eros’. I went three times. It was wonder-
ful, and all the time the audience kept
saying ‘That’s Sir Laurence Olivier.’


‘Did you know Vivien Leigh has left
him-?’ ‘That’s Joan So and So.’ ‘Did you
know he’s going to marry her?’ They
couldn’t care less about the play. They’re
all rhinoceroses.”
Milligan is working on a novel, which
may lead him to working full-time as a
writer. When he decided that what he
was writing was either a masterpiece or
rubbish he sent the unfinished manu-
script to Gollancz. When the man from
Gollancz was not over-enthusiastic,
Milligan instructed him to send the
manuscript back in a taxi and to pay for
the taxi. Anthony Blond will publish the
novel, when it is finished.
Milligan has done some film work but
nothing has come up which might put
him in the Peter Sellers class. “When
we made ‘The Running, Jumping and
Standing Still Film’ for <£so we simply
proved that we could make films for
£50,” he said. “Well, nobody is looking
for someone who can make films for
£5O. They want someone like Elizabeth
Taylor and Richard Burton who can
make them for £10,000,000. Someone
who makes films for £5O is a threat to
the people who mab them for
£10,000,000.”
At Christmas Milligan played Ben
Gunn in “Treasure Island” for Bernard
Miles at the Mermaid. “I got very good
reviews,” he said. “In fact, I kept all my
reviews, but nothing more came of it.
It was my first time on stage, but nobody
has offered me anything else.”
All this has brought Milligan to Aus-
tralia again. “At least they pay me here,”
he said. “At least they talk to me.”
[ Milligan’s third series of “Idiot
Weekly” for the ABC will begin on radio
on August 28 and will run for 13 weeks.
He is writing the scripts and starring in
the shows.]
What of Milligan’s announced inten-
tion of living in Australia?
“George Orwell said it and I wish I
had,” he said. “ ‘We live in the shadows
of the concrete towers of bureaucracy.’
And I want to get away from it. I want
to get away from everything that repre-
sents what they call Western civilisation.
When that chap Anthony Sampson
published his book recently attacking The
Establishment I wanted to write and say
‘God bless you’. He said England is run
by 200 people, but he’s wrong. There
are 10 million people running London.
It’s like a molecule. One atom steps out
of place and the whole thing goes up.
So every atom is busy making sure that
no other atom steps out of his rightful
place.”
Would things be so different here?
“Well, I thought they would,” he said.
“I thought 10 million people in a country
the size of America there should be
room enough for everybody to spread, to
do what they want to do. But I’ve been
dealing with the Gosford Shire Council
and it’s hopeless. Do you know you
could put four clerks from the Gosford
Shire Council down in the Leeds Council
and they could begin work there without
losing a stroke of the pen. Then I saw
they had land near Port Augusta. Two
thousand acres at 11s. 6d. an acre. And
I thought I could put myself down in the
middle of that and get some peace and
quiet. But the bureaucrats say that if
you buy land you have to grow butter-
beans.”
“Butter-beans,” he said. “Butter-
beans.”
THEY'RE HOPING FOR
A MIRACLE
“Religion isn't good box-office"
American actress Miss Bronia
Stefan has begun the Sydney run
of William Gibson’s play, “The
Miracle Worker”, with a price of
£12,000 on her head. At least, that is
the sum which J. C. Williamson’s lost
on the Melbourne run of the play,
which has now gone to the Elizabethan,
Newtown.
J. C. Williamson’s have been en-
gagingly frank about their losses on this
play, but probably they have nothing
to lose (except, perhaps, another £12,000
in Sydney) by doing so, and they might
enhance their reputations as altruistic
patrons of the theatre. However, all
this talk of losses seems to put a heavy
burden on the slender shoulders of Miss
Stefan.
The play, which tells the story of how
Annie Sullivan taught blind and deaf
Helen Keller at the age of seven to
speak, ran for 7i weeks in Melbourne.
For most of the run the public stayed
away in their thousands, but towards the
end audiences came in their thousands.
The house full sign went up and many
were turned away. Miss Stefan does not
know what went wrong, but then this
was only her first time in Melbourne.
J. C. Williamson’s don’t know what went
wrong either and they have been running
theatres in Australia for nearly 90 years.
“We have had some surprising failures
in Melbourne,” Williamson’s publicity of-
ficer Peter Morrison admitted, “And we
haven’t had many surprising successes
there.”
“Someone in Melbourne wrote me a
letter saying that things would be better
in Sydney,” Miss Stefan told us. “He
said that Sydney people didn’t know much
about the theatre, but went to enjoy it
while Melbourne people knew less about
the theatre but went to criticise.”
“It has been said,” Peter Morrison
added, “that Melbourne people know so
much about the theatre that they don’t
need to go to it.”
llThatever happens in Sydney Miss
" Stefan is amazed that the play is still
on its feet. “In America, even on Broad-
way, a whole management often depends
on the immediate success of a new play,”
she said. “It seems wonderful to have an
organisation that can keep a thing going
for so long on hope.”
Miss Stefan believes that the first
reason why the play failed in Melbourne,
when it was such a success on Broadway,
was that Helen Keller is not known here
as she is in her own country. The second
reason, Miss Stefan thinks, was the title.
“People thought it was a religious play,
which it is not,” she said. “And religion
isn’t good box-office, unless it is a film
spectacular like ‘Ben Hur’. Nobody
seemed to think a play about a deaf and
blind child could be entertaining, yet at
times it is a very funny play.”
In spite of her experiences with Aus-
tralian audiences, Miss Stefan appears
delighted with the country. “I am as-
tounded with the look of it,” she said,
“even from the trips I had outside Mel-
bourne. You know Hopkins’ ‘Glory be
to God for dappled things.’ That should
have been written about Australia.
There is so much color, so much variety.
No wonder you have such exciting
painters.
“You know, I hadn’t really ever met
any Australians since I was in college.
1 didn’t know that people like Cyril
Ritchard and Judith Anderson were Aus-
tralians. Why do people forget that they
are Australians once they leave here?
“The only person I knew had been
in Australia was Cornelia Otis Skinner.
I have never met her but she goes to
the same dentist and when I was having
my teeth cleaned before I came away
he said she was just back from Aus-
tralia.”
“Now that's interesting,” Peter Morri-
son broke in. “ ‘The Pleasure of His
Company’ with Cornelia Otis Skinner did
very bad business in Melbourne and
very good business in Sydney.”
“Well, perhaps, having the same dentist
will bring me luck,” Miss Stefan said
cheerfully.
PATRICIA ROLFE


AN AUSTRALIAN IN PEKING
Take your own instant coffee and cigarettes
Australians are now justly re-
garded as enterprising and self-
confident travellers, but it is
interesting to see how they measure up
against the conditions imposed by the
Government of Communist China.
There is, of course, no diplomatic rep-
resentation between the two countries,
and at present the only Australians
going to China are businessmen, mostly
wool exporters, traders and bankers.
A recently returned traveller reports:
The usual routine is to be “invited” —
that is, the Government-owned corpora-
tion with which you are trading or
intending to do business invites you to
visit its centre of operation, perhaps in
Shanghai or Peking.
Your first move is to arrange for your
Australian passport to be “opened,” to
indicate that the Australian Govern-
ment is not restricting you from visiting
Red China. This is attended to through
the Immigration Department.
After your Chinese host agrees to a
tentative itinerary, it is usual for the
visitor to China to go first to the China
Travel Services in the Bank of China
building in Hong Kong. It is not an
impressive office at first sight, but it is
efficient, and in due course, say two to
three days, you are advised that your
visa is available and travel arrange-
ments have been completed.
Before leaving Hong Kong, the ex-
perienced or well-advised traveller to
China would, for his own personal com-
fort, ensure that he has an adequate
supply of toilet requisites, perhaps a tin
of instant coffee, cigarettes, and perhaps
a bottle of Scotch. (There are no im-
ported cigarettes or liquor on sale in
China). As the first lesson in tact, take
English, not American cigarettes.
At the time appointed by China
Travel Services, the tourist arrives at
Kowloon railway station and picks up
his tickets to Canton. British railways
carry him as far as Lowu. At this point
he disembarks, says farewell to the
British administration, and walks across
a small railway bridge to the village of
Shumchun, where a member of CTS
indicates a waiting room for him to rest
in. On the bridge he has his first
encountei with the Chinese guard, his
uniform, his Red Star, and usually a
sub-machine gun. In the waiting room
the Customs declaration is presented for
completion. It is about 2\ foolscap
pages on which the visitor must nomin-
ate any personal items of jewellery,
fountain pens, propelling pencils, and
so on. It is usual for a medical inspector
to inspect the international health
certificates.
In due course the visitor embarks on
the train for Canton, a journey which
usually takes about 31 hours. The train
is comfortable and in many ways com-
parable with the British railway from
Kowloon. Drink waiters are not avail-
able, but tea is served.
From Canton the visitor may travel
to his next destination by train or by
plane. Current planes in use for passen-
ger travel are a Russian Ilyushin plane,
two-engined, similar in size to a DC3.
They comfortably seat 24 passengers,
have a cruising speed of about 200
m.p.h., and prefer to operate at levels of
five to six thousand feet. A few years
ago there were four jet passenger planes
of the most up-to-date design. These
are not commonly in use in internal
travel in China today. It appears that
there are no night navigational aids, and
flying is usually conducted in daylight
hours and only under the most favor-
able weather conditions.
Hotel accommodation generally is not
up to the standard of other parts in the
East, such as Japan or Hong Kong.
Generally, hotels are badly serviced and
the bathrooms show neglect and poor
maintenance. It is not difficult to obtain
bedrooms with bathrooms attached. The
standard of laundering would not be
acceptable to the normal world traveller.
Lighting is poor; dining rooms are plain
and unpretentious, but most hotels at
which Europeans are booked make an
attempt to serve a Western-style meal.
The tip to the traveller is to eat Chinese
style whenever possible, since the West-
ern meal falls far short of being accept-
able. You get the impression that the
chef is under strong Central European
influence.
The front desk of the hotel is the
centre point for information, although
visitors under current conditions, being
guests of a Government corporation, will
find that a representative, who will act
as guide and interpreter, will be readily
available to make appointments and to
conduct some sight-seeing. No business
is done quickly, and you have to go
sight-seeing whether you want to or not.
However, China is an ancient land and
its treasures and places of historical
interest absorb most tourists.
Tipping is out, and a visitor should
be careful even of offering a gift, lest
it be misinterpreted by the recipient or
his associates as an attempt to corrupt
or compromise him in any way.
It is rare for the visitor to receive a
definite instruction as to where he can
or cannot go, but nearly all his move-
ments will be supervised by his host or
CTS. Depending on the political line
of the day, he will find sight-seeing
either heavily or mildly colored by
political comments.
Any intelligent visitor naturally avoids
political discussions, but if he is con-
ducting any business whatsoever he will
find politics creeping into the conversa-
tion. Depending on the party line at the
time, he may then find himself con-
fronted with direct questions, such as,
“What do you think the final solution
of Taiwan will be?” “What do you
think of US intimidation in South East
Asia?” “What do you think of US
interference in Laos?” and so on.
If lengthy discussions are held, the
visitor will inevitably encounter a mem-
ber of the corporation’s protocol depart-
ment. He will notice that there is always
a secretary at the meeting, taking notes.
It is wise for the visitor to remember
that he is only a guest in the country,
which his own country does not officially
recognise. It is better to avoid comment
on political questions, even if the visitor
comes to the point of stating that he is
a trader or merchant, and not a
politician. There are no rewards in
China for the trader or visitor who
wants to carry on a one-man crusade.


OVERSEAS
THE CROWN PRINCES
Cocky Mr K. is 68—after him who and what next?
By EDWARD CRANKSHAW
■yUHEN Mr Khrushchev felt the heat
” during his Rumanian tour in June
and showed signs of exhaustion, people
suddenly remembered that he was human,
68, and, in spite of his overwhelming
vitality, by no means in perfect health.
So that less than ten years after the
death of Stalin they began to wonder:
who, and what, next?
It should be an easy succession. The
mood of brooding violence which in-
vested the intrigues of the men who
manoeuvred for power in the shadow
of Stalin has been largely dissipated
during the past few years of more open
rule. There is even an heir apparent,
Mr Frol Kozlov (54). He has not been
formally acclaimed, but Mr Khrushchev
has indicated him as his immediate suc-
cessor, and latterly his name has been
listed immediately below Khrushchev’s
own.
But nobody knows very much about
Mr Kozlov except that he is personable
in an uncolorful way, and that he must
be a good administrator and a man who
understands all about the mechanics of
power: otherwise he could never have
mastered the extremely tricky Party
machine of Leningrad.
What is not clear is whether Mr
Khrushchev brought him to Moscow to
be his deputy simply because he is a loyal
and accomplished chief of staff, or be-
cause of stronger talents, so far hidden
from the public. Certainly he has given
no public exhibition of original talents—
but the same applies to most of Khrush-
chev’s subordinates, some of whom must
be men of great ability.
ft is very much to be questioned
whether Mr Kozlov will in fact step into
his master's shoes. The job of running
the Soviet Union calls for gifts other
than those idealised by Sir Charles Snow.
No doubt if Mr Khrushchev left us
tomorrow, Mr Kozlov would succeed him
quite smoothly as First Secretary of the
Communist Party.
But it is likely that the actual govern-
ment would for a time take on the shape
of a regency council. Mr Kozlov would
not assume the Premiership as well, and
he would be supported by a posse of
quasi-royal uncles supplying continuity
with the pre-Khrushchev era.: Mikoyao,
Suslov, and the industrial and economic
planner, Kosygin. One of these might
well become Prime Minister.
Such a council, or collective, would
not endure for ever. Sooner, rather than
later, a new personality would emerge
to make and break new groupings, in the
time-honored Soviet manner, and to
bring to the leadership the charismatic
glow which, so far, has been an indispens-
able element in the Russian State idea.
Here the field is wide open. When
Stalin died the choice of a successor was
limited to the then ruling circle. But
today, for the first time since 1934, the
Soviet Union has a scattering of men ot
first-rate ability who have already enjoyed
great power and, having for one reason
or another fallen, are still at large.
Leaving aside the hard core of the
“anti-F'arty group” (Molotov, Malenkov,
Kaganovich), it would be possible to form
an alternative Government (i.e. an alter-
native Presidium) composed of men, and
one woman, who were lately themselves
members, or candidate members, of the
Presidium and are now put out to grass.
Some of these are more formidable
figures than their successors.
This is not to suggest for one moment
that the outsiders would, or could, com-
bine to challenge the insiders. Nothing
like that would happen. But the very
existence of such individuals, all with
their own personal followings, all with
their heads still on their shoulders, is
bound to make for a mojt interesting
fluidity when the time comes, as it will,
for a new power struggle.
Such a struggle, indeed, must be in
progress at this moment. Mr Khrushchev
is now the generally accepted leader; but
there is no reason at all to suppose that
the senior Party chieftains will meekly
accept for ever the stations to which they
are now called. And it is as certain as
anything can be that some of those at
present inside will, for reasons of self-
interest, perhaps for reasons of policy,
too, have strong ties with some of those
at present outside.
The “at present” needs emphasis.
Things move very quickly and suddenly
in and around the Soviet Government.
So quickly that it is useless to study the
lists and conclude that the latest promo-
tions offer any firm indication of the
state of things to come a year from now,
let alone five years.
For example, the 22nd Party Congress
last October saw the sudden rise of Mr
Spiridonov, Mr Kozlov's successor at
Leningrad, who was elevated to the Party
Secretariat. At the same time, the com-
parative veteran Mr Kirilenko, was sent
into the wilderness. But in April of this
year Spiridonov was down and Kirilenko
up. Nobody knows why.
Going back a little further, until two
years ago the tough and enterprising Mr


Kirichenko stood at Khrushchev’s right
hand. He had been with Khrushchev in
the Ukraine. He had succeeded the
master as viceroy over 40 millions when
Khrushchev was called to Moscow. He
came to Moscow himself in 1954 to help
Khrushchev in his fight with Malenkov
and Molotov.
When that fight was won he stood on
the dizziest height—only to fall (Russians
say because he presumed too much) and
be relegated to a provincial post. But
he is still alive. He still has friends and
supporters. It is unthinkable that a man
of his weight, experience, and past glory
would sit quietly in the provinces through
a succession crisis.
There are others, the brilliant Mukhit-
dinov, still only 45. Belyaev, made a
scapegoat for a harvest failure in the
Virgin Lands, Aristov, a pre-Khrushchev
era veteran, but still only 59, a supreme
organisation man, responsible once for
the development of industry in the Urals
and, later, a feared Party hatchet-man.
All these, and others too, have only
lately, and always for reasons unstated,
fallen from the heights.
To these should be added the fringe
men of the anti-Party group, once at the
very centre of power, notably Pervukhin
and Saburov, once the chief planner of
the Soviet Union.
A T the moment the way seems clear for
certain newcomers: Mr Voronov, who
last year was brought from the provinces
because he had proved to be the only
Party leader capable of making the
agriculture of his region work. Voronov
is 52, but there are others still younger;
Mazurov (48) from Byelo-Russia; the
trade union leader, Grishin (48); and
Polyansky (45), another successful
agriculturalist whose rise under Khrush-
chev has been meteoric. There are the
new insiders, who may find themselves
out at any time, thus adding to the new
fluidity.
There are still others, notably the 54-
year-old Patoliehev, regarded as one of
the most gifted and important figures in
the Soviet Union, who, after a career of
obscure ups and downs going back into
the Stalinist days, is now Minister of
Foreign Trade, without a seat either on
the Presidium or the Secretariat, but is
clearly a bigger man than a number of
his nominal superiors.
There is no shortage of administrative
ability. There will be a smooth hand-
over. But the new leader has not revealed
himself. The struggle will be fierce be-
fore he does; but it is likely to be a
struggle of intricate manoeuvre ranging
over a far wider field of talent than
existed ten years ago and involving,
almost certainly, men we have not yet
heard of.
MALAYA'S TUNKU
Profile of Malaya's ebullient, shrewd PM, now in Britain
to negotiate Greater Malaysia
By WALLY CROUCH, recently returned from Malaya
IV/Fr Frank Sullivan, the Press secre-
tary, had a word of warning as he
ushered us into the air-conditioned trophy
room of the official residence of the
Prime Minister of the Federation of
Malaya. The room is perched on Federal
Hill and commands a splendid view of
the skyscraper and minaret skyline of
Kuala Lumpur.
The Chief, Mr Sullivan said, took time
to warm up in these background brief-
ings. We should first toss him something
light-hearted, something personal. Then
let the Chief take it from there.
Mr Sullivan is an Englishman who
once worked in Australia as a news-
paperman, and now is a Muslim. He
takes his job very seriously.
Tea and biscuits
TTouseboys were serving a very Eng-
lish mid-afternoon round of strong
tea and brittle biscuits when a door slid
open and flanked by a couple of Army
aides the Tunku Abdul Rahman Putra
Al-Haj Ibni bounced into the room. The
Tunku was all smiles and handshakes.
Most encouraging to see our Press party
in the Federation. Too few Australians,
journalists especially, knew enough about
South-east Asia. Now what did we want
to talk about?
Heeding Mr Sullivan’s entreaty, we
engaged The Chief in small talk. How
was his golf these days? The Tunku
laughed. His handicap was no secret—
still a full 24, despite regular weekend
games at K.L.’s magnificent Selangor
Club course.
He had bought a golf-buggy at a re-
cent Australian trade fair. Yes, he was
still a keen racegoer. He had recently
imported a new filly from Australia and
expected great things of her. Yes, the
dozens of krises and daggers lining the
walls of the room were his private col-
lection —the best, he understood, in all
Asia.
The conversation lagged, and the
Tunku appeared a bit impatient.
Could we cover a few matters for the
record? Yes, the Tunku was certain that
Greater Malaysia would become a real-
ity. By the middle of next year, he
hoped. No, he had not been personally
embarrassed by the departure of the
eight Australian Sabre jets from Butter-
worth base for Thailand, despite his in-
sistence that Malaya must not be used
as a stepping-off place for SEATO
actions. The Australian authorities had
satisfied local requirements by sending
the fighters via Singapore.
Stage One of the interview was over.
Inche Mohammed Sopier, an urbane and
able man who heads the Malayan
Government Information Services, slip-
ped into the room and took a seat
close to The Chiefs. From now on
everything was to be very much off
the record.
This was a much different Tunku in
action, serious faced and sober phrased,
blunt, frank, sometimes angry. For one
intriguing hour he ranged knowledgeably
over situations troubling Asia today—the
fighting in South Vietnam, Indonesia and
its political future, the menace confront-
ing Singapore, Thailand and its reliabil-
ity, the likelihood of a Red resurgence
within Malaya.
Then abruptly the briefing finished,
and the smiles and the banter were back.
Would we care to see his art collections?
The rest of the house? Maybe some
group photographs out in the garden?
It was another 30 minutes before the
aides saluted us into our cars.
During a recent stay in Malaya I saw
the Tunku once again, at his installation
as Chancellor of the University of
Malaya, an array of modernistic and
splendidly arranged buildings in a tract
of parkland just outside K.L. and which
only a short time ago was virgin jungle.
Again the Prime Minister demonstrated
his personality acrobatics. His speech
was formal and delivered stiffly. Minutes
later he was gleefully ribbing students
and challenging a colleague for stakes of
a dollar apiece to a game of snooker in
the recreation hall.
Growing stature
Although the playboy prince of his
youth occasionally shows through his
mask of formality, the Tunku at 60 has
become pretty adept at wearing the
mantle of world statesmanship. In South-
east Asian eyes today he has tremendous
stature. Even opponents of his Greater
Malaysia plan, the constitutional blending
of Malaya, Singapore and the three
British Borneo territories into a single
entity, acknowledge the vision of the
man and the hard work he is putting into
its creation. And in a political area
notorious for its neutralists and fence-
sitters the Tunku has emerged as an
unyielding adversary of Communism in
all its forms.


Sometimes the silver-tongued Tunku
can be a man of harsh words. His
scathing denunciation of apartheid at the
last Commonwealth Prime Ministers’
talks contributed in no small measure to
South Africa's withdrawal into its repub-
lican shell. More recently, when his
temper flared over the political dickering
within the State of Singapore as to
whether it should join Malaysia, the
Tunku threatened to close the half-mile
causeway across the Strait of Johore
should Singapore elect to stay aloof.
Only a few weeks ago he blasted English-
educated Malay civil servants for “pooh-
poohing” their own national language.
He told a conference, “I myself wish
Malay officers ‘selamat pagi’ (good
morning) when I meet them, but the
reply I get is in English. They don’t even
know their own customs. But ask them
about film stars like Marilyn Monroe,
and they will give you her vital statis-
tics”.
Riding High on Popularity
"Out the Tunku can afford to stick out
his neck occasionally, because he is
riding high on a pinnacle of popularity.
His Alliance Party, made up of his own
United Malaya National Organisation,
the Malayan Chinese Association, and
the Malayan Indian Congress, is firmly
entrenched in government (it won 74 of
the 104 seats in the House of Repre-
sentatives at the second election, in
1959), and he is its unchallenged leader.
Within the Federation itself, the
Tunku's prestige stops short only of
idolatry. He represents independence won
from the British only five years ago. He
represents victory over the Communist
terrorists. He represents avoidance of the
communal riots which plagued India’s
independence and now haunt Singapore.
The Tunku has the local Press on
side, his “Malayanisation” programme is
running smoothly despite some disquiet
among Malaya's Chinese minority over
State control of education, and under his
guidance racial harmony is a very real
thing in modern Malaya.
He knows and exploits the value of
the common touch, and is not adverse
to tramping through ricefields and kam-
pongs to explain to peasants his Govern-
ment's two Five-Year-Rural-Plans, the
second of which his very able right-hand
man, Deputy Prime Minister and Defence
Minister Tun Abdul Razak, is now
implementing.
Physically, the Tunku supports the
image of prosperity. Tall for a Malay (he
is sft 1 Oin.), he is rotund but muscular.
He was born at Alor Star in Kedah,
the seventh son of the then Sultan. His
mother was half-Burmese, half-Siamese,
the daughter of a chieftain of one of the
Siamese Shan States. As a child the
Tunku was not physically strong, but
was distinguished by an innate curiosity
and a zeal for good living. He studied
at English-language schools in his own
State, and at eight was sent to a school
in Bangkok with a brother who was a
captain in the Siamese Army. By no
means a bright student, he nonetheless
won a State scholarship which took him
to England to prepare for the university
entrance examination.
At Cambridge University’s St Cathe-
rine’s College the Tunku's career was
marked mainly by high living.
His pursuit of bright lights, lovely
women and fast cars left him with little
time or energy to dedicate himself to
hard study. He eventually scraped to-
gether a BA, but his subsequent efforts
to study law were spectacularly un-
successful.
In all, both before and after the last
war, the Tunku spent a total of ten years
in Britain. He was in his forties before
he finally was called from the Inner
Temple to the Bar. On one occasion he
returned home to Kedah intent on
“whooping it up” only to be packed off
back to Britain with an edict from his
elder brother, Tunku Ibrahim: “Do better
this time, or else.”
By this time his reputation as a play-
boy was widespread. Biographers note
that he accumulated a record of 28
traffic offences, mostly for speeding, in
England. In a Western country, the
Tunku's early marital and romantic
problems would probably have prejudiced
his future political advancement. He was
married three times, the first time to a
European, divorced, and involved in one
divorce scandal. But in Malaya, where
Islam permits four wives and divorce is
a feature of daily life, he weathered the
storm.
Even the Tunku himself is not sure at
what stage his political conscience was
awakened and he became a nationalist.
It probably began when, just before the
war, he became a district officer in
Kedah, a combination of magistrate, tax
collector and rural administrator.
Moving among the people, hearing
their problems, he was for the first time
in his life alive to their burdens and
aspirations, and his easy-going philosophy
was sharpened into a desire to see his
country independent. The Tunku was
helping organise Malaya's civil defences
when war broke out in the East, and in
December 1941 as the Japanese ad-
vanced into Kedah he was warned by
his brother-in-law, Syed Omar Shaha-
budin, who was State Financial Officer
at the time, that the British were prepar-
ing to evacuate and planned to take the
Sultan with them to Penang and thence
abroad. The Tunku intercepted the car
in which his father was travelling and
succeeded in diverting it to Kulim,
Kedah, because he believed his father's
rightful place was with his people in time
of national emergency.
During the occupation the Tunku's
actions as district officer at Kulim dis-
pleased the Japanese, and he was trans-
ferred to Alor Star where they could
more easily keep an eye on him. When
the Japanese ceded Kedah to Thailand
he became Supervisor of Education, and
remained in this post until the British
returned. While in Alor Star the Tunku
formed a welfare organisation to look
after the Death Railway survivors.
By now the latent ambition and deep
love of his homeland had been fully
awakened in the Tunku, and the playboy
prince gave way to the rising young
politician. In Britain a close friendship
with Abdul Razak — now deputy Prime
Minister helped mould his political
aspirations.
By 1952 the Tunku was back in Kedah
as a public prosecutor and an unofficial
member of the British-run Legislative
Council. Not long after he succeeded
Malaya's elder statesman, Dato Onn bin
JTafar, as president of UMNO.
Behind Charm a Strong Will
Tn his subsequent career the character of
the Tunku has been thrown into bold
relief in a number of roles. The first,
that of a supreme diplomat, was revealed
in 1953 when, after a series of round-
table talks, he was atl- to unite the
political representatives of Malaya's
Malay, Chinese and Indian people into
a common Alliance. It was with this
powerful weapon which he himself had
largely forged that the Tunku, by then
Chief Minister, was able to go to London
in 1956 and bargain with the British
for full independence and self-govern-
ment for Malaya, which was granted a
year later.
Then, in December 1955, the Tunku
dramatically showed his hand as a strong-
man. At a schoolhouse in Kedah he and


A€^ / K / '
I
_L
nm
WITH
SPECIAL KEYING SYSTEMS
GMK
rt 2.
m. is
A 3. ~j
-y MK-B
A 3. 81. 82.
<&>
afj MX'
•"4 M
a
83. Cl. C 2.
GRAND MASTER-KEYED SYSTEM
Each lock has its own individual key which operates that lock only and
no other, but the locks are divided into two or more groups. Each group
is subject to its own Master-Key which opens all locks in that group, but
no other group. , . .
However, all locks are also subject to a Grand Master-Key which opens
all locks in all groups.
As with Master-Keyed Systems, Keyed-Alike groups may also be included
in G.M.K. Systems.
WITH THE LOCKWOOD
MASTER-KEY SYSTEM
YOU NEED CARRY ONLY.
’ ONE.KEY INSTEAD OF'
? HUNDREDS! * "
REPLACING INSECURITY
r AND CONTUSION WITH
MAXIMUM SECURITY,
c MAXIMUM?
1 CONVENIENCE!
In industry and commerce today a Lockwood MK System is an essential
pre-requisite to controlled security throughout your organisation.
Each system, large or small, is designed specifically to individual requirements,
enabling smooth functioning of access by authority, including Fire Brigade
and Police, and guaranteeing rapid accessibility, in emergencies, to any part
of the building, plant, or organisation.
Specifications and code details of all established Special Keying Systems are
held on permanent record under strict security by Ogden Industries
enabling quick replacement of lost keys or damaged locks “true to code , and
allowing absolute control of additions or extensions to the system.
Experienced special representatives are immediately available to discuss
Master-Keyed or Grand Master-Keyed Systems in detail.
Please contact your leading hardware merchant, or Ogden Industries Pty.
Limited at any Branch, listed below, for prompt attention.
IPcK up
n
m
Manufactured in Australia by
OGDEN INDUSTRIES PTY. LIMITED
Brisbane 7-3047 • Sydney LM 3191, LM 3186 • Canberra 4-4098
Adelaide W 2153 • Perth 23-2214 • Hobart 3-3141 • Melbourne 569-0611
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £177,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the economic
growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O’Connell Streets, SYDNEY
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
Mr David Marshall, then Chief Minister
of Singapore, met Chin Peng, secretary-
general of the Malayan Communist
Party, to discuss amnesty terms. The
country was at the time bathed in blood-
shed and violence, and the temptation to
end the horror quickly by acceding to
Chin's demand that the Communists be
recognised was strong. But the Tunku
stood firm in his demands for total sur-
render. The Red leader stalked back
into the jungle with a clenched fist salute.
Two days later the Tunku flew to London
on his “Merdeka Mission", won indepen-
dence, and mounted an all-out, often
ruthless, military campaign which was to
end the 12-year Emergency and send
Chin and about 400 survivors of his once
12,000-strong terrorist army scuttling
over the Thai border into hiding.
The episode intensified the Tunku's
anti-Communism. He is today a categor-
ical opponent of the Marxist philosophy,
which he refuses to associate with nation-
alism but considers to be “part of an
international conspiracy for world
domination”.
Golf, Football, Photography
A deeply religious man, the Tunku
made a pilgrimage to Mecca in 1958
to fulfil a promise he made to give
thanks for Malaya’s attainment of inde-
pendence.
Nowadays the Tunku lives quietly with
his fourth wife, Puan Sharifah Rodziak.
He has a grown-up son, a captain in the
Malayan Army, and a daughter who is
married to a Malayan studying in Eng-
land. But the real apples of his eye are
his two adopted children, both Chinese.
The girl is an engaging little miss named
Miriam, and the boy, fulimen, is the off-
spring of leprous parents.
Golf, presiding at meetings of Malaya’s
Football Association (he was an impres-
sive soccer player in his youth), and
photography are the Tunku’s main diver-
sions. Except at official functions, he
finds little outlet for his longtime passion
for ballroom dancing.
The 40 - year - old Deputy Prime
Minister Tuan Razak these days
shoulders a good deal of the running
of Malaya’s internal affairs because forg-
ing the Malaysia Plan has come to oc-
cupy most of the Tunku's working
hours. At the moment the Tunku is in
London, with a team of advisers, to
discuss the latest stages of the plan’s
development, including the findings of the
Cobbold Commission which was estab-
lished to gauge the reaction of the Borneo
people to incorporation.
The Tunku has become probably the
most globe-trotting of all Asian politi-
cians. He visited Australia in 1959, and
says he would like to come here as soon
as possible after Malaysia is created to
explain to Australians what their stake is
likely to be in it.


Around Melbourne
A LITTLE RED RENTED ROWBOAT
T>ack in the 1880 s bicycle shows
were all the rage in Melbourne.
The popular journals carried ad-
vertisements which pointed out that
the bicycle was splendid for deport-
ment and it was quite untrue that
ladies who took to the health-giving
exercise ever developed any masculine
tendencies. At the turn of the century
the Austral wheel race on the Mel-
bourne Cricket Ground was out-
rivalling the Melbourne Cup, and,
heaven forgive us, there were book-
makers in the MCG reserve, calling
the prices.
The bicycle went out of vogue and
motor shows became the thing. As
the Essex, Buick and Packard became
progressively more bulbous and
beautiful, the Motor Show became
Melbourne’s most important ex-
hibition. That was then. Now we
have the National Boat Show. There
are 330 boats on display compared
with 200 cars and trucks at the last
Motor Show and the boat people are
claiming victory.
Aquatically-minded people of Syd-
ney, Brisbane, Perth and Surfers’
Paradise might think we are behind
in this matter, but this is not true.
We pioneered the high bicycle and
we can also pioneer the twin-Mercury,
40 knot, trailer-born cruiser. The
boat is the new status symbol and
we realise it is not so much what
you drive but what you tow behind.
At Portsea you can even get away
with a 1956 Chev. provided that you
have a 1962 runabout on the trailer.
And if there are two Rolls Royce
families in Toorak there are a num-
ber of two-boat families at Portsea
with two-boat boathouses, electric
winches and all, to save the tiresome
business of manhandling speedboats
into the water.
But to get the true picture of 1962
trends it is important to see it all.
Above the peeling paint, flying from
the mast on the 82-year-old roof of
the Exhibition Building were signal
flags which correctly spelt out that
this was the National Boat Show.
Just inside the door was the dream
for "all those young in heart” . . .
it was a black and white speedboat
with Chevrolet tail fins, but more
than that the black paint had a Lurex
finish. It almost looked like Johnnie
O’Keefe in uniform. Then to make
things perfect it had leopard skin
buttoned upholstery with big square
buttons and an espresso bar dash
panel.
Further over, lovely in pale blue
and white, was the 14-foot Scott all-
imported fishing boat, "the world’s
first complete boat”. What did it
have? What didn’t it have? It had a
noiseless, moulded swivel seat for
fighting the big fish, a noiseless re-
mote-controlled anchor, bait holders,
rod holders, magnetic hook holders,
36-inch fish measuring rules (you
don’t really need them that size
around Portsea), an automatic bailing
system and refined steering. Yet,
perhaps most important of all, there
were special storage lockers for the
beer cans as well as built-in can and
bottle openers.
The centrepiece, of course, was
Bob Dyer’s new boat, Tennessee IV.
Bob was due in person to take
possession at 2.30 p.m. the following
day, but sadly your pioneer was un-
able to be present. There was one
compensation life-size pictures of
Bob and Dolly at the wheel, waving
to the crowd.
The Tennessee IV will not take
over from Tennessee 11. It will be
Mr Dyer’s second boat, a fast run-
about capable of 40 m.p.h. The idea
is that he will be able to knock off
work, say, after lunch, then in a little
over an hour he will be 15 miles off
the Sydney Heads, ready to do some
shark fishing.
It is a 19-foot cabin cruiser with
a “Caribbean” fibre glass hull and
twin 85 horsepower Mercury out-
board motors. It has twin bunks,
flush toilet, and is as big a boat as
any self-respecting road authority
will allow on a trailer.
The cost? Now that’s the sort of
thing you rude people always ask.
The boat itself is worth <£1775. The
engines cost £6OO each. It is £250
for the four-wheel trailer, equipped
with four-wheel brakes. £2OO odd for
the two-way radio, £ 150 for the
depth-sounding eauipment. By the
time Tennessee IV is as cosy as it
ought to be, the bill should be close
on £4OOO.
As a tired old reporter who has
suffered thousands of hours at motor
shows it is all too clear that the boat
people have learned the lesson well.
One gets the feeling that they are
even better at built-in obsolescence
than the artists of Detroit. For 1961
we had charming pastel colors, beiges,
pinks and such. For 1962 it is im-
portant to be bold. There are reds
purer than the brilliance of a traffic
light, blues gayer than the Southern
Cross Hotel.
No longer is it done to have
matching tail fins for your Chrysler
and your speedboat. Tail fins have
withered away almost to nothing.
For interior decor quilted materials
are in, very bright if possible, and
the newest speedboats have the exact
layout of the Ford Thunderbird.
Hulls? The new models have twin
sponsons, they ride on a cushion of
air, so that when they scoot by the
Portsea beach the bather merely has
to bob his head.
Boats generally are bigger. A 14-
footer now is not always big enough.
There are many more fast 19-footers
and while most of us had an 85
horsepower outboard last year, every-
one is going for 100 horse jobs this
year. They can be heard much
easier.
Your pioneer smiled at the pretty
programme girls who were dressed up
in white sailor suits, and went on his
way. Next morning the disc jockeys
were playing a number titled: “A
Little Red Rented Rowboat” It was
all about a boy who took a girl for
a ride in his little red rented row-
boat. Then along came a Flash Harry
in a fancy speedboat. Alas, he took
our hero’s girlfriend, leaving him
alone in the rowboat. Later Flash
Harry’s speedboat ran out of petrol.
So our hero had his moment of
triumph when he rowed past, in his
little red rented rowboat, nose in the
air. And that’s the trend, boat-lovers.
Tt is not long since we used to hear
songs like that about Oldsmobiles.
BATMAN


FORUM
FOOT’S
FRIENDLY WARNING
Anticipating the winds of change in New Guinea?
122. We recognise the magnitude of
the undertaking in New Guinea which
faced Australia when the Japanese sur-
rendered. It presented a challenge and
opportunity with few parallels in the
history of under-developed areas. Aus-
tralia tackled this new task with courage
and enterprise and drive, and soon pro-
duced remarkable results.
It went to work with a will. Perhaps
the finest examples of Australian effort
were in the Patrol Posts where young men
created order and carried a message of
progress and new hope to people living
in the most undeveloped conditions in
the world.
Again typical of Australian enterprise
was the way in which airstrips were built
on spurs of the precipitous mountains and
extensive bush air services were provided
by young pilots who cheerfully and daily
faced sudden danger.
The planning and direction of the
whole administration came largely from
Canberra, but the thrust and momentum
came from the men in the district who
walked their districts and built roads,
stations, schools and aid posts. Behind
the initial effort came towns, bigger
schools, training centres, large new
hospitals some of them costing a million
pounds each, and agricultural centres
and demonstration farms, all coming info
existence at an increasing pace. It has
been a decade and a half of expansion
and construction. It was the stage of
preparation, the laying of the founda-
tions, a period of straightforward and
satisfying progress.
127. All the work done so far as been
in preparation for the achievement of the
accepted aim so frequently declared, the
aim of bringing the Territory to self-
government. The results of past efforts
will now become increasingly and pro-
gressively apparent. The children who
entered school in the first few years after
the last war are now grown up and avail-
able to help in the main effort. From
now on the number of educated New
Guineans will multiply year by year at an
increasing rate. They must be given
every opportunity to play their full part.
The human material for advance is im-
proving rapidly in quantity as well as
quality year by year.
128. Yet, while these opportunities
open up, we find in some quarters a ten-
dency not to urge the need for progress
and speed and initiative but rather a
tendency to emphasise the remaining
difficulties and disadvantages. There is
sometimes an emphasis on what should
not be done rather than on what should
VlfE devote this week's FORUM to
excerpts from the report of the
recent UN Mission visit to New'
Guinea more popularly known as
the Foot Report. It is a frank and
fascinating document.
Written by Sir Hugh Foot (head
of Mission and a former British col-
onial administrator of wide experi-
ence) it is in the nature of a friendly
warning.
While handsomely praising our past
record and future intentions in the
Territory, Sir Hugh bluntly warns us
we are being too slow; that our gradu-
alist policies more desirable though
they may be are out of date in an
anti-colonialist world; that the convul-
sive changes experienced in Asia and
Africa will come sooner than we
think in New Guinea and that we
must be prepared to meet them.
be done. Sometimes it has appeared that
the drive of the first decade and a half
may be lost, that the spirit of pioneering
enterprise may be slackening, that there
is a section amongst Australians and New
Guineans too who doubt the declared
objective and wish to take refuge in a
negative or defensive attitude. We think
that that would be the gravest error We
strongly believe that to fail to go forward
with increasing momentum now would
be to jeopardise all the results of the
good work of past years.
129. We suggest that the principal
needs of the day are three. Firstly, to
undertake a full review of the economy
of the Territory. Secondly, to find and
train and guide potential leaders as a
matter of maximum urgency. Thirdly,
by developing representative, democratic
government at the centre to overcome
the divisions which have so far bedeviled
the Territory.
130. We believe that these three main
purposes are overriding. We believe that
they are complementary. We believe that
all three can and must be pursued to-
gether. They are the natural and the
obvious consequences of all that has
been done so far.
EDUCATION
190. It is significant that the state-
ment of educational targets made on
October 26, 1961, no reference to
higher or university education.
191. The Mission feels that the Ad-
ministration's educational programme for
mass literacy is commendable but that,
in terms of today's world and today's
needs in New Guinea, it is inadequate.
Three results are discernible from the
present policy. These are:
1. Broadening the literacy base;
2. Providing a number of indigenous
teachers for primary schools;
3. Providing workers to feed into
the economic stream at the un-
skilled and the semi-skilled levels.
But the existing system does not:
1. Provide education at the Univer-
sity;
2. Produce individuals capable of
replacing Australians in other
than unskilled or semi-skilled
positions;
3. Give a required level of know-
ledge to exercise responsibility
in the fields of commerce or
industry;
4. Make provision for senior ad-
ministrative and professional
staff:
5. Adequately generate political
confidence and leadership.


192. Throughout the Territory, the Mis-
sion visited numerous Administration and
mission schools. In these, both primary
and post-primary, the soundness of the
Administration's more recent educational
policies was apparent. In places as
remote from each other as Manus, Mt
Hagen and Madang, pupils displayed
their work, answered questions, and
demonstrated their ability generally. On
more than one occasion New Guinean
pupils surprised the Mission by theii
quickness, eagerness and confidence.
At the mission school at Bundi, high
in the Bismarck Range, the mission found
hundreds ot small lively boys speaking
excellent English and, among the smallest,
one who delivered a first-rate welcoming
speech. At this boarding school, English
is taught from the outset and the curri-
culum is based on Australian standards.
193. The Mission visited teacher
trainees at the school at Rabaul and was
much impressed by the calibre of students
taking the special “E” course. It feels
the Administration should be commended
for this programme of training which is
making a most useful addition to the
number of Australian teachers available
each year. But even so, there is not a
sufficient number of teachers coming
forward from New Guinea and Australia
to reach the goal set. The Mission feels,
therefore, that the possibility of securing
English-speaking teachers from other
sources should be actively explored.
The Mission suggests specifically that
the Administering Authority apply to
UNESCO to see if the latter’s interna-
tional exchange service might assist in
providing additional teachers.
194. The Administration states that
after standard 7, in addition to the
technical training centres, the three
courses of further education open to
students are: the purely indigenous se-
condary schools leading to the Queens-
land University Public Examination four
years later: the integrated high schools,
leading to the New South Wales public
examinations; and the post - primary
schools leading to standard 9 after which
students proceed to teacher training,
medical training or other specialized
training.
195. Unfortunately, practically all
students, whether in New Guinea or
abroad, have pursued the third course.
With one exception, for example, the 28
New Guinean students who were sent to
Australia for secondary schooling have
done just this. Only one, a Papuan, went
to study at Sydney University. All the
rest took teacher training, medical train-
ing, or other specialized training and are
employed by the Administration or priv-
ate enterprise in various subordinate
capacities.
196. In the Territory, the Mission
learned what was happening to many
New Guinean students who should be
going on to secondary school, or finish-
ing secondary school and going on to a
university. For years they have been at-
tracted from higher primary standards
and post-primary standards to jobs of-
fered by the various departments of the
Administration or by private employers.
Departments compete with each other,
and private employers compete with the
Administration. To fill its needs one
department may lower its educational
qualifications by one standard to get
ahead of other departments. Private em-
ployers, of course, can draw candidates
away from the Administration by offering
higher wages. These and other means
have been and are being resorted to in
the Territory. Under such conditions, it
is not surprising to find the Annual
Report stating that:
“Since very few indigenous students
have yet reached the necessary education-
al standard, the number taking courses of
higher study outside the Territory is very
small”. The number is indeed “very
small”. In view of the competition which
we have described, it is surprising that
there are even a few.
It is true that with the expanding
economy and the great increase in ad-
ministrative, educational and welfare
services since the war, there arose a
similar expansion in the demand for the
services of New Guineans at every level
of skill, training or education. The higher
students progress, the greater the pres-
sure becomes on them from all sides to
leave school and take jobs, and they do
so for a variety of reasons. Their fami-
lies want their financial assistance. They
themselves want to earn money or get
married. Failing any inducement to the
contrary, they succumb to competing
temptations and pressures and accept
employment as soon as they have a
minimum qualification,
197. What is alarming, in view of the
rapid changes occurring in New Guinea
in particular and the world in general, is
the fact that as long as this state of affairs
is permitted to continue it will be im-
possible to develop the standards of
professional, administrative and political
leadership which are vital to any Territory
in preparation for self-government.
198. The main reason why the present
educational programme is inadequate is
that it pays little or no attention to the
need for higher education. The Admini-
stration is specific in stating that post-
primary, secondary and higher education
will be made available to all students who
qualify by satisfactorily completing their
primary education and who possess a
good knowledge of the English language.
Facilities in both the Territory and Aus-
tralia will be used for secondary educa-
tion.
And in his recent statement, the Minis-
ter specified that in the next five years
secondary schools, technical schools and
professional training would be developed
in keeping with the demand for them by
children who had completed their primary
education. He also noted that in five
years it is estimated that the enrolment
in post-primary and secondary schools
will rise to 10,000. But there is no indica-
tion at all of how many students will be
completing their secondary education, let
alone how many will be taking and com-
pleting university courses.
Nor is there any evidence that the
Administration intends to encourage these
students to remain in schools and uni-
versities in the face of the strong
demands that will continue to be made
for their services by the Administration
itself and by business enterprise before
they complete their education.
199. The Territory needs more than
the promise that such education will be
made available to those who can qualify
and who demand it. What is required is
a positive programme to ensure that
hundreds of students do qualify and do
demand it. The trouble has been that the
incentive and the inducements to go
higher have not been impressed upon
them. They have not been encouraged,
assisted and persuaded to carry their
education through to the end. They have
in fact had little or no example of higher
education before them, for the simple
reason that there has been practically
none.
200. In the Mission’s view the kind
of programme for secondary and higher
education needed in New Guinea must
be approached with greater imagination
and boldness. The need for qualified
personnel in all fields is so great and so
urgent that a new approach is essential.
The Mission believes that the Administra-
tion should be planning now to provide
an annual turn-out of university graduates
of the order of at least a hundred.
Such planning should include the pro-
vision of special courses for selected
students at both the secondary and ter-
tiary levels and the provision of induce-


ments through scholarships or the pay-
ment of living allowances, in order to
make it possible for them to complete
such courses. Educators in the Territory
assured the Mission that they knew which
students were outstanding.
Therefore, it should not be difficult
to select a hundred or so of the most
promising students in the Territory each
year and prepare them for matriculation
in Australia. Inevitably, until a univer-
sity is functioning within the Territory,
the co-operation of Australian or even
other overseas universities will have to
be sought, but the Mission feels con-
fident that this assistance will be readily
granted. Finally, the Mission wishes to
stress that a programme such as this
should not only be planned now, but
should be put into operation immediately.
201. The Mission knows this is not a
conventional academic programme, but
neither is the situation or the times. Aus-
tralia has shown imagination and daring
before this in tackling and overcoming
difficulties in New Guinea. In fact, it
has been forced to, whenever urgency was
a factor in administration, communica-
tions, the extension of control, and
public health. The Mission is confident
that it will not fail to meet this challenge
in the spirit in which it has met others
in the past. Since the end of the Second
World War education policy in the Ter-
ritory has been in what might be termed
the “preparatory stage”. It is now high
time to move confidently into the
development stage. The base of the
educational pyramid has been well laid.
The Mission feels that the time has come
to complete the structure of earlier effort,
and to provide the apex of the pyramid
by a new policy of selection for and
encouragement of higher and university
education.
A REPRESENTATIVE PARLIAMENT
206. As we have said in the General
Chapter of this report the Mission
believes that the preparations already
made, together with the experience
gained in the Local Councils, now make
it possible to proceed to the next stage
more rapidly than was contemplated
when the new Legislative Council was
inaugurated last year.
207. We believe that the time has
come for an imaginative advance which
would create a truly representative Par-
liament. We think that the target should
be set of creating such a Parliament
without delay, all preparations being put
in hand at once and completed next year
so that the first general election on the
new basis can take place no later than
April 1964 when the term of office of
the present Legislative Council expires.
We are of the opinion that all the neces-
sary preparations for the voters’ common
roll, single-member constituencies and
ballot box elections can be completed
within this time-table.
208. Before going on to consider in
more detail the problems of consti-
tuencies, methods of election and com-
position of the new House of Represen-
tatives (we suggest that this title is
preferable for many reasons, principally
because it gives a more accurate picture
of the composition and function of the
Parliament proposed) we should state
the main arguments which have weighed
with us in making this principal recom-
mendation.
209. First we consider that “it is es-
sential to look to the participation of
all the people of the Territory, through
this Council, in shaping the course of
change and progress”. In facing the
urgent, anxious and awkward problems
of the future the people of the Territory
must play their full part. Their interests
must come first; their ideas and their
opinions should be heard and respected.
That is the principle and purpose which
have predominated in the preparatory
steps already taken by the Administering
Authority.
210. Secondly we are convinced from
our public discussions in every District
in the Territory that the people have
leaders well competent to speak for them
and to represent them in a thoroughly
resoonsible wav in a central Parliament.
Indeed, wherever we have been in the
Territory—in patrol posts and country
centres as well as in district and sub-
district headquarters—the leaders of the
people (often presidents or members of
the local councils) have spoken out for
those they represent, often with vigor and
eloquence and nearly always with an im-
pressive steadiness of judgment and a
sense of constructive responsibility.
Some of the most backward areas
might find it difficult at first to find local
representatives capable of taking a full
part from the start in a legislative body.
The electors of such communities may
consequently decide to elect representa-
tives whom they trust from outside their
own members —and in any event no harm
will be done if in a Parliament of a
hundred members there are a few who do
not at first play a prominent role.
211. Thirdly we believe that the estab-
lishment of a central representative
Parliament will, more than anything
else, give to the Territory that national
sentiment and that sense of political
unity which has so far been so noticeably
lacking. The constituencies for which the
present six New Guinea members are
elected are far too big to give the people
a sense of direct representation through
their own elected leaders. For instance,
the people of Manus and New' Ireland
and Bougainville can hardly be expected
enthusiastically to agree on one New
Guinean representative for all three
Islands, nor is it reasonable to expect the
more than 600,000 inhabitants of the
Eastern and Western Highlands to be
satisfied with one New Guinean represen-
tative.
How different the attitude wifi be when
each sub-district elects ns own parlia-
mentary representative (with the larger
sub-districts being divided into two or
more constituencies). Then the House of
Representatives will at once become a
political reality in the minds ol the
people and a true centre - political opin-
ion and political activity. It will come
alive, and help to provide that living unity
which has so far failed to emerge.
212. The Mission believes that the
proposal for a House of Representatives
of about one hundred members elected
from single-member constituencies on a
ballot box system of full adult suffrage
is practicable.
The Mission also believes that all the
preparations can be completed in the time
proposed. Experience elsewhere amongst
people no more advanced than those in
New Guinea indicates that there need be
no insuperable difficulties in these prac-
tical tasks. The New Guinea census
figures (efficiently kept up to date as
they are) provide the material for the
preparation of the common electoral roll.
The census figures would also make it
possible quickly to work out constituency
boundaries (it is suggested that the con-
stituencies should be established roughly
on the basis of 20,000 inhabitants in each
constituency) this task perhaps being
carried out by a Boundary Commission
which, with the material and informa-
tion already available, could be expected
to complete its task in a month of two.
It would also take some time to ap-
point and train the necessary electoral
staff (most of this work no doubt being
done by existing staff under the direction
of the District Commissioners), and then


several months would have to be devoted
to explaining to the people the system of
ballot box voting by symbols. It is a
system which has worked without diffi-
culty amongst people with a higher illi-
teracy rate than that in New Guinea.
Some people imagine that the ballot box
can be used only by highly educated
persons, but in fact such a system of
voting by symbols is one of the simplest
of all procedures. Anyone can under-
stand it. And the essential democratic
process of the elector deciding and in-
dicating whom he wishes to represent him
and to speak for him is a function which
anyone, whether or not he or she has
been educated, can well exercise.
213. We think that these practical
preparations can be completed in about
a year, and that period would be required
for the people on their part to prepare
themselves for the first general election
by the selection of their candidates, and
possibly by the formation of political
parties.
214. As to the membership of the new
House of Representatives, we would
suggest about a hundred members, and
we consider that the existing special pro-
vision for nominated unofficial members
and for Australian elected members
should be discontinued. We would hope
that a number of Australians permanently
resident in New Guinea (including some
with valuable administrative experience)
would now or in the future enter the
House by the electoral process based on
the common roll. We suggest that it will
be essential for the present to retain in
the House a number of officials who will
be, in the early stages at least, responsible
for the presentation of draft legislation
and financial proposals such as the an-
nual budget. We suggest that in this
first stage there should be (say) five offi-
cial members including one Chief Legal
Officer and one Chief Financial Officer.
We would further suggest that an official
Speaker should be appointed to take the
place of the Administrator who now
presides over the Legislative Council.
215. We believe that with the estab-
lishment of such a Parliament the political
life of the Territory would be trans-
formed. The views and wishes of the
people would not be open to misunder-
standing or misinterpretation. For the
first time there would be a central body
which would both represent and create
public opinion. A new working partner-
ship between the people and the Ad-
ministering Authority would result. At
every future stage it would be possible to
act with and gain support from public
opinion as represented by the directly-
elected spokesmen of the whole country.
DISCRIMINATION
246. There was one subject which was
raised at almost every public meeting we
attended—tliat was the subject of the
liquor regulations under which the
“native” people are not permitted to buy
or drink alcoholic liquor. The strong
objection amongst all sections of the New
Guinea public to these regulations is
due not so much to a wish to have free
access to liquor as to the discrimination
on which the existing regulations are
based. New Guineans find it humiliating
to be forbidden to have alcoholic drink
provided in their own clubs and to be
prevented from entering hotels or bars
where drink is served.
It is even more humiliating to be
denied alcoholic drink in social gather-
ings and joint receptions of the kind at-
tended in many places by the Mission,
which are attended by both Australians
and New Guineans. There is some real
danger that, if all the existing restrictions
are suddenly removed, there will be
serious problems arising from drinking
amongst the local population, but this
danger must be faced and means dis-
covered to mitigate the ill-effects.
247. In the opinion of the Mission the
time has come to sweep away all sur-
vivals of racial discrimination, and we
consequently welcomed the Government
decision made public shortly before we
left New Guinea to set up a Commission
to review the situation and to make new
recommendations on the subject of the
liquor restrictions. We consider that in
this and every other respect there should
in future be no discrimination whatever
on the basis of race.
248. A similar problem exists in
regard to film censorship. At present
films are subject to special censorship by
which only approved films are available
for showing to the “native” population
and this, in effect, means that New
Guineans are excluded from the main
cinemas where the films shown have not
been passed by this special censorship.
Here too we strongly recommend that
there should be no discrimination on the
test of race.
249. A few complaints were made in
public meetings we attended about more
general acts of social discrimination. We
heard, for instance, that in some shops
New Guineans would be made to wait
until Australian customers had been
served, and on several occasions we
heard evidence that there is some resent-
ment that people of different races do not
mix naturally and freely in social life.
We trust that a special effort will be
made to remove all causes of such resent-
ment as a matter of urgency.
250. Generally, we found that good
relations exist amongst all sections of the
population. We were specially glad to
note that in sport there is a refreshing
freedom from discrimination, people of
all races participating together in sporting
activities of many kinds. Moreover from
the days of the war when many Austra-
lians and New Guineans faced the same
hardships and dangers fighting side by
side a spirit of comradeship and common
purpose has prevailed.
We believe that a sustained effort
made now to remove all remaining
causes of complaint will preserve that
fine spirit and lead to a continuation and
a deepening of the firm friendship which
so many New Guineans feel towards
Australia.
251. Like previous Missions we
strongly dislike the use of the word
“native” which is extensively used. We
accept the contention that the word is
not used in a derogatory sense —and we
know that official instructions have been
given that the word should not be used
as a noun.
The widespread use of the word
persists, however, and we consider that
everything possible should now be done
to discourage it and eliminate it. The
use of the term emphasizes the differences
between the races, while every effort
should surely be devoted to creating a
sense of common patriotism between all
those who live and work in the Territory.
252. The main problem of the Terri-
tory—the problem of creating a single
nation with a common purpose is com-
plicated by the fact that, although the
Trust Territory of New Guinea and the
Australian colony of Papua are adminis-
tered as one, each has a separate and dif-
ferent status. One Administrator is res-
ponsible for both the Trust Territory and
the colony, one Government Service
operates in both, one Legislative Council
legislates for both, and to all intents and
purposes they are treated as a single ad-
ministrative entity. This arrangement was
authorized in the original Trust Agree-
ment, and the Australian Government has
been fully justified in building up a single
administration.
253. The Mission endorses the desira-
bility of forging the two territories more


Estab'ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
.hipping, Banking and Commercial
institutions throughout Australia
rjACKSON
£-OS UIUV Mj /
PTYLTO
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & C®.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC printers
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented Ore Con-
centrator has proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient, simple and
inexpensive to operate. Send for
illustrated Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers:
GUTHftIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
“Everlasting” Boiler Blow off Valves, Kapid
Magnetising Machines, George Ellison
Switch Gear, Blasting Mats, Explosives,
Log Splitting Guns, etc. Makers of Classi-
fiers, Water Filters, Steam Valves, etc.
n
55]
completely into one so that both can go
forward to self-government as a single
country. Nevertheless the fact that New
Guinea is a Trust Territory and Papua
is not creates difficulties, particularly
from the point of view of the United
Nations.
254. One result of this unusual asso-
ciation of the two territories is a feeling
in New Guinea that there is an undue
concentration of official authority in Port
Moresby (Headquarters of the Adminis-
tration of both Papua and New Guinea)
in spite of the fact that the population of
New Guinea is approximately three times
that of Papua. This creates a feeling in
New Guinea that the seat of authority is
remote and perhaps primarily concerned
with Papua. We consequently wondered
at one time whether there might be
something to be said for establishing the
proposed new University in New Guinea
(possibly at Lae or Goroka or at some
mountain centre such as Kainantu) in
order to be nearer the main concentration
of population. We realize that Port
Moresby has many advantages and that
it is intended that the University should
grow out of the central administrative
training college which is to be created
next year on the proposed University site,
but doubts on this score illustrate the
stresses and rivalries which can arise
from the different status of the two ter-
ritories.
258. To give outward form to this ob-
ject we suggest that a flag and a national
anthem should be accepted for the whole
territory of New Guinea and Papua, and
every opportunity seized to emphasize by
this and other means the two territories
have the same purpose and the same
destiny.
260. A new flag and a new anthem
and possibly a new form of common
citizenship would all help in that cause.
These are the outward symbols of unity.
Much more important is the need to take
every possible step—in the schools par-
ticularly to encourage a spirit of
national unity and enthusiasm, and thus
to overcome the disadvantages of physical
barriers and isolated population groups
and the wide variety of different lan-
guages. We believe, moreover, that the
most effective means of achieving this
all-important purpose will be firstly to
press on with the teaching of English
throughout both territories and secondly
to improve communications between the
different districts and thirdly—and most
important—to create a central House
of Representatives, as we have recom-
mended, in which all the people of both
territories will be directly and democrat-
ically represented.
CONCLUSION
263. There remain the all-important
questions of targets and timing, which
were raised by the Mission with the
Minister of Territories in the final discus-
sion in Canberra.
264. The Minister explained the atti-
tude of his Government which was based
on the principle that the wishes of the
people should predominate. He empha-
sized that the people must have the
‘light to choose”, and he referred to
frequent direct discussions with represen-
tatives of the people in New Guinea with
the object of ascertaining their wishes
and their ideas on the next steps in poli-
tical advance.
He said that these discussions had not
indicated a desire for further immediate
advance following the establishment of
the present Legislative Council last year,
and that the view of the Administering
Authority was that decisions on future
political advance should take place in
consultation witn the Legislative Council
after the next elections due to take place
in about two years’ time. In the mean-
time, however, committees had been set
up in the existing Legislative Council to
give preliminary consideration to the
question of what form political advance
should take.
265. The Mission fully appreciates the
reasons and motives for this approach,
and entirely endorses the need to consult
the people and to win public support for
political progress. In the opinion of the
Mission, however, it would be a serious
mistake to delay decisions about the
future. The Mission feels that an early
r.ew initiative is called for to enable
public opinion to be given full and effec-
tive expression.
Rapid and sound progress towards the
accepted goal of self-government or in-
dependence can be made only if three
prerequisites are met.
First, it is essential to be ahead
and not behind the rapidly awaken-
ing and increasingly insistent desire
of the people for material progress.
Secondly, it is necessary to equip
the people with higher education
to take a leading share, and not
merely a subordinate part, in the
management of their own affairs.
Thirdly, the whole Territory must
be drawn together and given the
means for free political expression
by the creation of a representative
Parliament.
268. We are convinced that
there should be no delay whatever
in pressing on to achieve these
three purposes. Then the way will
be cleared for increasing the pace
and the momentum of progress
towards the declared object of
national self-determination.
269. That is why we propose
that the target for implementation
of the three plans which we have
advocated should be set no later
than December 31, 1963.


MOTORING
BUYING
AN UNDER
£1000
CAR?
HThe Sydney Motor Show opens at the
end of August and the public will
go shopping for cars. The cognoscenti
already know what they want. For the
undecided buyer the following is intended
as a conscientious guide, for in most
cases car buyers are often as twittery as
a woman buying a hat.
The only real difference being that a
bad choice in cars can be very expensive.
This report is confined to the bread and
butter family vehicle costing under
£lOOO. The more expensive cars must
wait for another time.
Leaving aside the peculiar low priced
type of car like the Messerschmitt and
the NSU (despite the latter’s brisk per-
formance) the field is confined to the
following in alphabetical order. AUSTIN,
DATSUN, FIAT, FORD, HILLMAN,
MORRIS, RENAULT, SIMCA,
SKODA, TRIUMPH and VW.
Several of these makes have various
guises, a basic model and a de luxe
version which is only the basic car with
some “extras,” better trim and coat of
many colors: e.g., DATSUN, SKODA
and SIMCA. Some convert into station
wagons such as the Austin “Countryman”
but only Hillman offers a genuine wagon,
the “Husky.”
Austin markets a small sports car
called “Sprite,” for £940 but as this is
strictly for the kids we will shelve it
until testing those sort of cars at a later
date.
AUSTIN. The Farina designed A4O is
perhaps one of the best cars produced by
the British Motor Corporation to date.
Very popular overseas, the clean styling
doesn't appeal to all, apparently, for the
car was a sales flop in Australia.
This was mainly due to initial over-
pricing and poor merchandising for it
is sound in wind and limb and is backed
by the large if somewhat cumbersome
BMC spare parts organisation. Rated by
some as a better buy than the Miniminor,
the A4O is worth haggling over and a
shrewd buyer can make a good bargain
at under the list price of £BB4.
DATSUN Bluebird Special at £B9B and
the de luxe Bluebird at £946 are making
headway on the Australian market des-
pite a distrust of Japanese goods. Made
from old Austin blueprints (bought by the
Nissan Motor Company after the war)
the engine gives far more power output,
with reliability, than the original design
probably provided. Well styled, adequa-
tely finished and economical the Datsun
concessionaires have yet to set up an
efficient dealer system throughout the
country and some firm assurance as
regards spares should be sought by the
purchaser when trying for a discount
price.
The Miniminor and the VW
FIAT have several good cars under
£lOOO, the small 500 and 600 D cars,
each with their wagon variants, and the
ever popular 1100 de luxe at £952. The
“1100” is the backbone of the Italian
manufacturing colossus and is undoubt-
edly the choice for the connoisseur in
this price range. Fifty-five tireless horses,
excellent appointments, good handling
qualities and a compact, ageless, shape
make the “1100” a delightful car.
However, FIAT have a poor name in
this country for service and spare parts,
two important facts which the present
concessionaires are trying hard to over-
come. Spares are also highly priced.
Strangely, as a result, there is a go-ahead
concern which deals in fast moving FIAT
parts and sells to the public cheaper than
an authorised FIAT agent can buy from
the distributor!
FORD offers its well regarded English
ANGLIA at £BB5. The engine is prob-
ably the most famous mass produced
four cylinders ever made for it is used
almost without exception in small racing
cars throughout the world. With suitable
modifications it develops over 120 mph
with surprising reliability. The Anglia’s
styling may go against it in Australia or
perhaps our buyers may prove critical of
its general finish for it hasn’t had the
success expected.
More economical than others, the
Anglia is above average in design and
performance, with an engine deserving a
better fate.
HILLMAN at £969 and the HUSKY at
£899 have a solid group of devotees.
Unfortunately for the Rootes Group,
struggling for survival on our competi-
tive market, there aren't enough of them.
An honest car, for long a favorite with
retired couples, professional men and
gentlefolk, the Hillman lags behind in
the race for market percentage. It does
everything the makers claim and has an
edge in quality over its rivals. The
new small car, to be made at Rootes new
Scottish factory in 1963 could inject
some long overdue zest into the Aus-
tralian organisation. The market climate
is definitely advantageous to the buyer.
BMC’s enfonts terribles. The MORRIS
850 (MINIMINC R) and MORRIS
ELITE have put the one-time £2O mil-
lion “white elephant of Victoria Park”
firmly on its feet. The “850,” costing
only £740, has captured the youth of
Australia as no other car, with the excep-
tion of the Volkswagen, has before. It
is also capturing a good share of the
“second hand” car market, again poach-
ing off Volkswagen to do so. Selling at
more than £2OO cheaper than the Ger-
man car the “850” has a terrific advant-
age to the price conscious buyer. But
for the long term buyer the “850” has
certain disadvantages not found in the
Volkswagen. These include poor quality
finish inside and out, an incapacity to
stand pounding over bad roads, rapid
tyre wear if driven enterprisingly and
the discomfort of sliding windows.
Mechanically the car is not as sound
as the VW which should outlast the
Miniminor two to one. The Elite has both
performance and ruggedness an ' being
the third of a local series (and proven
under our conditions) has many of the
qualities sought by the under £ 1000 buy-
er. Easy to drive, easy to service, some-
what thirstier than others in its class the
Elite could be the “Holden” of the four
cylinder everyday type of family car.
RENAULT, SI MCA and SKODA are
three foreigners. Renault is very French,
smart and chic. The Gordini model at
£970 is very much the car for those who
prefer Paris labels.
Still suffering an adverse reputation
earned in the bad days of poor distribu-
tion and worse service Renault is making
an earnest effort to establish the marque
throughout Australia and the rugged R 4
model should stand up to rough country


use. A buyer’s market exists and a true
motorist won’t be disappointed in the
car. Simca, now a branch of Chrysler
Corporation, has a basic model at £906
and a de luxe model at £999. Fight-
ing a losing battle against rising costs of
local production and the desire to keep
the right side of the £lOOO barrier the
Simca has gradually deteriorated in
quality, and consequently lost much
of its appeal to the discerning motorist.
Above average performance and
sleeper seats are mainly responsible for
the car's popularity with the younger
generation. The new rear engined
“1000” should be interesting when the
handling problems are overcome.
The Czech-made Skoda is certainly
cheap enough at £799 for a standard
car. Improving looks help but the feel-
ing that the car is almost in the orphan
class precludes it for all but the
shopper for “something different.”
Two Rules of Thumb
?T,he TRIUMPH “1200” at £952 is an
A infinitely better car than any of its
predecessors and it is indeed tragic that
the earlier underpowered and shoddily-
made models were released in Australia.
Australian Motor Industries will have
a hard road back but new management
and a far better product will help. The
“1200” does what was falsely claimed
for the original car, and provided
quality control and service can be im-
proved a Triumph buyer should be well
satisfied.
The buyer should not be diverted by
overseas advertising of the little six
cylinder Triumph “Vitesse” which will
not be made here and will therefore cost
more than £l2OO. Last but by no means
least, is the VOLKSWAGEN. Un-
questionably the best-made car in the
small car group the VW is ideally suited
to Australia. Economical, rugged, un-
troubled by heat or cold, a ruthless
pursuer of fancy performers on the high-
ways this freak automobile continues to
hold the key to our small car market.
The growth of the VW organisation in
Australia has perhaps outstripped
management and should service continue
to slide then the whole structure of VW
is in danger.
Two points:
• Don’t hesitate to bargain when buy-
ing a new car. Discounting in the motor
trade has become as fashionable as it is
in retailing. But remember that in the
fiercely competitive small car market,
margins are smaller than you think, so
tread gently.
• New small cars and good used
cars are often similarly priced. The
budget buyer in the under £lOOO class
is generally wise to buy “new” rather
than “used”.
BOADICEA
LETTERS TO THE
EDITOR
PEACE MOVEMENTS
IN AUSTRALIA
Sir,
Your article, “Peace Movements in
Australia” (Bulletin, June 23), is a
consistent exposition of the well-known
policy line of The Bulletin which, we
must concede, makes no pretence to
espouse liberal or enlightened thought.
There can be no doubt that smear
tactics, particularly during the worst
period of the cold war, considerably re-
tarded the development of the move-
ment throughout the world but the magni-
tude of the catastrophe confronting man-
kind has now penetrated the conscience
of millions.
The resulting trend was clearly demon-
strated by the national Peace Congress
in 1959, described by your journal as a
“peace circus”. This gathering was at-
tended by 1400 delegates and backed by
the million and a quarter strong ACTU
with major church denominations, lead-
ing ALP, educational and cultural figures
officially participating, also world figures
in the persons of Pauling and Priestley.
A movement capable of promoting
such a congress must have deep roots
and mass support and has no possibility
of functioning as a front for any minor-
ity group or interest. It must also have
a representative and responsible leader-
ship commanding the respect and support
of tens of thousands of citizens.
We invite The Bulletin to in-
form its readers of its attitude to the
issues of nuclear and total disarmament
and the proposal of the Leader of the
Opposition for a nuclear free zone in
the southern hemisphere, support for
which is currently being canvassed by
our committee per medium of a national
petition.
(Rev.) A. D. BRAND
(Chairman, NSW Peace Committee)
Sydney.
(THE BULLETIN supports disarmament
provided ways are found to implement a
system of international inspection. As for
the Opposition’s proposal for a nuclear free
zone: we consider this one of the most dan-
generous and suicidal policies yet produced
since, in the event of a war, without Ame-
rican nuclear bases in Australia we would
be completely defenceless against the “con-
ventional” superiority of countries such as
Red China.—Ed.)
Sir,
Mr Brian Fitzpatrick (Bulletin, July
7), accuses me of stating (“Peace Move-
ments in Australia”, Bulletin, June
23), that he attended the inaugural meet-
ing of the Australian Peace Council in
July, 1949. A re-reading of the article
will confirm that I said no such thing.
In his letter Mr Fitzpatrick also states:
“For myself, I have to say that all
bona fide peace movements have my
good wishes. But I have not founded
any or been a member of any . . . and
I shall be under an obligation to Mr
Kelly if he will refrain from attributing
to me a share in the organisation of
Communist or any other fronts.”
However, under the heading of “Two
Thousand at Great Peace Rally” the
Communist “Tribune” of September 3,
1949, states: “More than 2000 people
streamed into the Melbourne Town Hall
last Thursday night and joined in the
new mounting nation-wide demand for
‘free speech for peace’. . . . The meeting,
convened by the Democratic Rights
Committee and chaired by the Rev. A.
Dickie, heard speeches by ... Mr Brian
Fitzpatrick and the Rev. F. J. Hartley.
It subscribed £220 to ‘forward the peace
movement’.” The Melbourne “Guardian”
of July 5, 1949 (and subsequent issues)
corroborates this. Does Mr Fitzpatrick
really consider that a Communist-front
Peace Council is “a bona fide peace
movement”? I would be surprised if he
did—but not startled.
PETER KELLY
Sydney.
“PINK RACIALISM"
Sir,
As a Czech Catholic who spent a con-
siderable time in a German concentra-
tion camp for marrying a “non-Aryan”
(i.e. Jewish) girl, I was interested in
Professor Wright’s racist smears for two
reasons: I am a “Slav”, and I have seen
people who hold Professor Wright's
views (Bulletin, July 14), in power and
at work.
There is one practical matter which
must be considered in relation to his
activities: Professor Wright is President
of the Melbourne University Staff Asso-
ciation. It is therefore quite fair to as-
sume that his prejudices are shared by
many of his colleagues on the University
staff who elected him. He is probably
also able to exert much influence on the
University administration. So far none
of his colleagues have taken him to task
for his racist outburst, which seems to
indicate that they either agree with him
or that they dare not oppose him.
New Australian parents, particularly
those from Communist dominated
countries, would therefore be well ad-


I 3
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
huorporaled in England
®
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
tt
Funds Exceed
£A413,000,000
«
Offices :
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
vised not to expose their children to
possible insults, racist smears and poli-
tical pressure by sending them to an
institution whose most influential member
is ideologically a cross between Hitler and
Khrushchev.
There is fortunately another University
in Victoria.
DISMAS M. ZIKA
Blackburn (Vic.).
COLONIALISM IN OUR
LITERATURE
Sir,
Mr P. R. Stephensen’s anxiety to assert
his academic qualifications and his con-
tempt for the academic mind in general
make an interesting combination. His
suggestion, though, that a reviewer (to
avoid “failure”) should “relate his book-
reviewing activities to the actual life of
the 99.99 per cent, of Australian book-
buyers who have not taken an Honors
Degree in ‘English’ ” (Bulletin, July
14), apart from its unacademic use of
numbers as the test of worth, may be
insufficiently precise to aid most of our
(dense) academic reviewers. A highlight
of Mr Stephensen’s lecture (Bulletin,
June 16) may help:
“A recent example of the colonial at-
titude is in Mr Patrick White’s ‘Voss’,
a fictionalised study of Leichhardt, which
ignored that explorer’s magnificent over-
land expedition from Moreton Bay to
Port Essington in 1844—the virtual
discovery of the interior of Queensland
and concentrated attention on his
failure in 1848 to cross the continent
through the centre. With this Mr White
gives the German explorer a perfectly
unwarranted character as a man incom-
petent in making love to a woman.”
It is entertaining to imagine Mr
Stephensen earning his “academic quali-
fications” with this:
“An early example of the Sassenach
attitude is in Mr William Shakespeare’s
‘Macbeth', a fictionalised study of
Macbeth, which ignored that monarch’s
magnificent virtues—‘a sure defense and
buckler o’ innocent people’ (Holinshed)
—and concentrated attention on his
ignoble means of usurping the throne
and his ignominious defeat by the Eng-
lish. With this Mr Shakespeare gives the
Scottish king a perfectly unwarranted
character as a man incompetent in
killing kings.”
It may be some time before students
write in this way again. Let us hope it is
not too long. A proper (i.e. national) at-
titude to literature is a necessity: after
all, as Mr Stephensen so beautifully and
startlingly says, “there is no substitute
for books.”
ALLAN OATEN
East Brighton (Vic.).
INSIDE TOORAK
Sir,
Batman’s article, (Bulletin, July 14)
was indeed a revelation of the petty yens,
upheld by the so-called upper-crust of
Melbourne's “better suburb”. I firmly
believe that the offenders in this ridicu-
lous situation are the would-be society
snobs, who strive so strenuously in an
attempt to become “a somebody” (al-
though their financial position usually
warrants their social standing among
“the mass of nobodys”). A truly sincere
person needs no chauffeur-driven “Jag” or
heated swimming-pool, in order to convey
his worthiness to we as Australians.
J. JEFFERY
East Malvern (Vic.).
ASIA—THE EMPTY CONTINENT
Sir,
Eugene Bajkowski’s article (Bulletin,
July 14) is an excellent opening. It has
been a source of wonder to me that we,
as a nation, do not seem to have told
Indonesia she already has more territory
than she can manage properly.
But the article is very short, chiefly on
geographic facts. Why not tell us, for
instance, how much of Sumatra is below
the 1000 ft or 2000 ft level, and other
data affecting its usefulness for develop-
ment?
To write merely that “Sumatra is spar-
sely inhabited, despite its fertility and
mineral wealth” gives nobody a useful
talking point.
H. R. THOMAS
Latrobe (Tas.).
STATE AID TO EDUCATION
Sir,
Mr Brebner (Bulletin, July 21),
says the 1957 ALP Federal Conference
did not rescind the policy of “aid for
all forms of education”. The facts are
that it did and the policy substituted
specifically excluded private schools.
Moreover, Mr Brebner himself moved
the Education Committee’s recommenda-
tion to do this. Let me refresh his
memory with the following from page
75 of the official minutes:
“Mr Brebner moved: Omit from
the Platform ‘Financial Aid for all
forms of Education’ . . . and insert in
lieu thereof ‘the promotion of second-
ary and higher education by way of
bursaries, scholarships, exhibitions and
benefits of a like nature payable direct
to students’. Seconded Mr Quigley.
This was carried by show of hands—
-36 to nil.
“Mr Brebner moved ‘That the
Committee recommends that this
Conference deplores the failure of the
Federal Government to provide
adequate funds to State Governments
to enable them to extend their
educational facilities.’
“In moving the motion Mr Brebner
said the committee had deliberately
chosen the words ‘their educational
facilities’ in order to make it clear
that such funds were not to be used
for other than State owned and con-
trolled education facilities. Seconded
Mr Quigley—carried.”
J. T. KANE
(General Secretary,
Democratic Labor Party.)
Sydney.
TEACHING ARTISTS HOW
Sir,
In Mr Shead’s article in The Bulletin
(June 30), many points well worth con-
sidering are made. Many of the faults
of the National Art School that Mr
Shead mentioned have been made
previously by many responsible people
connected with art teaching and paint-
ing.
However, in defence of the National
Art School, two teachers at present at
that school deny flatly practically every
one of Mr Shead’s claims. One can only
get the impression from their rather
sarcastic letter that they are brushing
off Mr Shead’s opinions as those of an
inexperienced art student, who doesn’t
know what he is talking about, and
who should know better than to write
such an article. This I suggest is not
the case.
Surely more good would be gained
by arguing these issues sensibly than
flatly denying them, a view which surely
seems narrowminded in a subject which,
I feel, should be very broadminded.
IAN SCOTT
Mosman (NSW).


EARN A
SPARE-TIME INCOME
BY YOUR PEN!
Learn Story Writing, Freelance Journa-
lism, Radio/TV Scriptwriting, etc., by
excellent correspondence training
through STOTT’S, and learn in your
spare time as a writer.
Write today for free Prospectus.
ID
159 Flinders Fane, Melbourne; 119 Castle-
reas'h St., Sydney; 290 Adelaide St.,
Brisbane; 21 Grenfell St., Adelaide;
22 Howard St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
. address
age B 1562
REVIEWS
TELEVISION
TWO KINDS OF RITE
By FRANK ROBERTS
HEwo of television’s more significant
-*■ events this month, in terms of Aus-
tralian production, were the General
Motors Hour version of Alan Seymour’s
“One Day of the Year” and the first
ballet commissioned for local television.
The fact that each may have been seen
by up to one million people indicates the
power which television has to make us
see ourselves, fashion a culture, and
perhaps escape the awful fate suggested
in a current TV commercial whose final
words rhyme with super moron.
Television has the power, as everyone
says, for good or bad; but there is more
to the issue that that. Local production
has to compete for attention and more
importantly, convinction, against some
powerful, integrated American material,
and continued bumbling can only lead to
audience rejection of the Australian and
acceptance of the American way in
expression, outlook, principles.
This might not be considered so bad,
but to be a better, and still individual
race is surely preferable? I don’t think
this is the coming dilemma. It’s here.
And what is done in local television
production, and how is it done, will
swing the vote.
Alan Seymour’s “One Day of the
Year” is a bloody awful play but no
one seems to have said so. It is about
as shallow, insincere, and downright dis-
honest in parts, as a play can get, and
its gentle critics rate the same notices.
When Americans try to portray Aus-
tralia and its inhabitants in television and
sprinkle the script with vernacular
absurdities, our critics either foam or
guffaw, but which of them snarled when
Alf Cook asked Miss North Shore
whether she was English, and she cried,
“No, I’m a dinki-di Aussie.” Or when
he assured her, in dinki-di Aussie
language, “Youse’ll be sweet”? Shades
of the much criticised Down Under
Caper.
HPhe central figure in “One Day” is a
A returned soldier from W.W.2, a lift
driver who is a “bloody Australian”, and
is jack of “bloody Poms and bloody
Eyeties” and other bloody foreigners
who look down their bloody noses at
him in his bloody lift. Mad with the
xenophobia, he starts training for Anzac
Day, the one day of the year when he
really knows who he is, a “bloody Aus-
tralian”.
Every year he has taken his son to
the Dawn Service and to see the March.
But at University his son Hughie meets
this North Shore Girl, whose father was
in the war too but doesn’t talk about it.
They plan to do a words and picture
story exposing the sorrier side of the
Great Beer Up, and the son is torn
between filial loyalty and his natural
loathing for Anzac Day as he has seen it
over the years.
As a try for the London market, as
an oddity w'hich English audiences might
find pitifully amusing, confirming the
general opinion of Australians, the play
had some point, if only to line its
author’s pockets.
But as an effort to say something to
Australians about Australians it’s as
genuine as a Woolloomooloo Yank’s
accent. In a country which has absorbed
a million “bloody foreigners” with a
minimum of xenophobia, though with
other faults, Alf Cook is a typical. As a
lift driver he is likewise. As an Anzac-
pounding parent, likewise.
To accept the verity of “One Day”, it
would be necessary to accept the notion
that no one in Alf’s family, or his silent
mate Wacker, has ever told him politely
but firmly to put a bloody sock in it;
that his son has waited 17 or 18 years to
rebel, and then very mildly and uncer-
tainly; that a family of this kind would
be pointedly and excessively rude to a
girl their son had brought home, or that
she would make such a speech to them
as, “As you know, there’s been more
rubbish written about Anzac Day than
anything else in Australia.” That but
isn’t that enough?
The great defect in this play, on stage
or television, is that the author has little
knowledge, and most of that snobbish, of
the kinds of people he has attempted to
portray, upstairs or downstairs in society.
It is a pity, because he had the makings
of a good drama. After a preposterous
first act, he had a strong second act, and
what could have been a good third act,
minus a few idiocies.
No modern drama can survive on
such trash as, 'They’re Australian. Are
they? They’re what it was, we’re what
it’s going to be.” If that were so, the
future would be grim indeed. It would
be in the hands of youth whose members
take 18 years to realise, “Maybe I’ll
never grow up till I can accept things
as they are, and not be ashamed.”
In the General Motors Hour introduc-
tion, by Harry Dearth, this was pres-
cribed as an important, adult play,
indicating the increasing maturity of
playwrights and audiences. This pre-
tentious statement was followed by an
opening shot absurdly similar to the
closing one in The Flintstones, and a
first act reminiscent of some of the wildest
times at McCackie Mansion.
A valid expose of the Anzac myth
could be written. But this was not it.
Tt would be too easy to say that “The
Forbidden Rite” should have been
forbidden, all right, and let it go at that.
But this “first full scale ballet composed
especially for television by an Australian
composer (Robert Hughes)” had its
moments.


My souvenir programme for the occa-
sion (p. 9 of TV Times, July 14) said the
Rite was commissioned by the ABC and
APRA, that Robert Hughes preferred to
call it a dance drama, and that “the
camera is a vital member of the cast; its
part has been written with as much care
as those of the dancers.” Unhappily
someone forgot to give the cameraman
the score, which had “full details of stage
action and camera plot.”
The story had a tourist girl visit
ancient temple ruins, dance with a
village boy, and make his girl jealous
enough to try her hand at a forbidden
rite which, a disembodied voice told us,
awakened “half-forgotten creatures”.
I liked Trevor Ling’s ruined temple set,
and the usual, evenly dim ABC lighting
was fine for this occasion, but a few
too many pillars intervened between
cameras and dancers too often.
The camera work ranged between
good and shocking, and made that
gambit frequently during Act 1. The
cameras flicked from person to person
with all the smoothness of an old one-
reel movie, shot slightly down and made
the dancers appear deformed, cut off
feet when feet were important, were as
agile as old women when the dancers
rushed towards them, lost the dancers
altogether at times, and generally proved
rather intractable “members of the
cast”.
And yet in mixing the tourist girl’s
enraptured image with that of an evoked
team of true-blue pagan dancers, the
producer achieved a local production
wonder. He tried for it again in Act 2
and failed badly. Then he groped wildly
for effect with a village boy, tourist girl
panel on one side of the screen and their
pagan selves and friends on the other.
If, as my programme had it, the com-
poser depended on producer William
Sterling and choreographer Rex Reid to
“solve the artistic problems created by
the dramatic action”, they failed him,
most of the time.
Mr Hughes must bear some of the
blame. Again, the programme said he
believes that dance movement should be
wholly subservient to the music. He
attended every dance rehearsal and, with
Rex Reid, “integrated” all movement.
But the music, played efficiently enough
by the Victorian Symphony with the
composer, seldom rose off the flagstones.
I found it as monotonous and keening
as Rock, and in no sense related to the
action before me, until things began to
get rough in the old temple, and music
and dance became one. The notion that,
in a primarily visual medium, the visual
should be subservient to the aural seems
a strange one to me.
Towards the climax, the story had the
tourist girl’s imagined pagans in an
orgiastic dance which almost blew the
fuses. Then the village boy pagan
carried the tourist girl pagan to the altar
and the camera shuddered and lifted its
lens to the fresco above. Gad sir, none
of THAT on the ABC!
And the same happened when two of
the “half forgotten creatures” emerged in
a swirl of cheesecloth, seized the village
girl who had invoked them, and dashed
her to the altar too. Up to the fresco
we went, for another good long look at
the stonework.
My souvenir programme said the ABC
is considering entering “The Forbidder
Rite” for the Italia Prize. After a success
ful “Death of a Wombat” that would
really be going from the gorblimey to the
faintly ridiculous.
The principal dancers, Mary Duchesne
(tourist), Edward Miller (boy), and Vic-
toria Biro (girl) were the strength of the
whole affair, and despite the many han-
dicaps mentioned, they made some of
the 40 minutes well worthwhile. But I
wonder how many people were still with
them at the end?
GREY IN BLACK AND WHITE
The Story of Peter Grey. ATN-7.
/Tne by one, the radio stations have
been dropping their perennial day-
time serials, and many a husband must
have noticed a brightening in his wife’s
eyes as the drug was withdrawn and
contact with reality at least partly es-
tablished again. Recovery is never com-
plete, of course. Years, even months of
addiction to noble Doctors, saintly but
disturbed Reverends, unappreciative
Husbands, dreadful Other Women, dan-
gerous Cads, meddling Mothers and all
the rest of the stock characters of the
soap operas inevitably placed the victim
beyond any cure known to medicine,
including Dr Paul’s and Mary Living-
stone’s, M.D.
But it seemed certain that a new gen-
eration of young married women would
be allowed to grow, tall and straight,
with no taint of the daytime-serial
malady women who had never heard
Episode 89,672 of When A Girl Marries.
That was how it seemed. It was far too
much to expect. Apparently there is
supposed to be an inherent yearning for
this particular junk, and as The Un-
touchables has taught us, where there
are potential junkies there will always
be suppliers.
So we have The Story of Peter Grey.
In fact, Perth viewers have had it for
some time, in two 4 p.m. doses a week.
Sydney viewers had the fix offered to
them only last week, but the takers will
get five daily 3.30 p.m. shots from ATN
and become mainstem addicts, unless
their husbands are alerted to take drastic
action.
Peter Grey is a clergyman, played by
James Condon, and as played by James
Condon he is an obvious psychoneurotic.
He has a wife (Lynne Murphy) who be-
longs in the same ward. They have just
moved to a new parish from a place
called Merton Falls, where Something
Happened. There are two versions. A
girl took a shine to the Rev. Peter, who
broke her heart, and then she tried to do
A Dreadful Thing. Or else his insanely
jealous wife drove an innocent girl to
the brink of Taking Her Own Life. His
wife eternally complains of headaches
and neglects the house, which becomes a
mess through which the Rev. wanders
looking pained and impotent.
She says she loves him, but in a con-
versation that traces the concentric
circles of schizophrenia, she reveals
much plotting to make him leave the
ministry, study Law, and become rich
and famous like Daddy before he Lost
Everything. A couple of absent villains
named Mother and rich Aunt Susan are
sketched in. Muttering, “I just want
peace,” he walks outside to stand among
the tombstones somehow adjacent tf is
Sydney suburban church, lifts his ;e
skywards, of all things, and asks is he
worthy, or has he Failed. End of Episode
2.
Are you still with me, gentlemen? Next
day your wives met a blind old minister
(Lou Vernon), his daughter (Diana
Perryman) who is Good and looks after
him, and the local doctor (Stewart Ginn)
who is Daughter’s hopeless suitor. The
old minister and the doctor reveal that
both have received Poison Pen Letters
about What Happened at Merton Falls.
On the flimsy pretext that the old
minister had forgotten to hand over a
couple of vital keys, Daughter and Doc
amble over to the vicarage to sticky-
beak, and find Peter standing melan-
choly in a littered room. Peter and
Daughter look at one another, and
Something Dawns. There’s a click, Peter
stiffens and then goes to the foot of
the stairs. All three look upstairs, hold-
ing their breaths. End of Episode 3. End
of my tolerance of this filmed soap
opera which perpetuates all of the abor-
tions of human reality, dignity, sense
and good taste which the old audio
‘drips’ committed.
I understand that Peter Grey will be
followed by others of its kind. The only
hope for a ‘clean’ generation of house-
wives is that evening television will have
made most of them far too sophisticated
for this mid-Victorian nonsense.
DON BASS


MUSIC
BEYOND THE CLICHE
Downbeat Concert. Exhibition Build-
ings Melbourne.
A definition of jazz is as impossible
as a definition of poetry. For, like
poetry, the quality that distinguishes
jazz from the popular music out of
which it grew is not dependant on form
alone. Most Australian bands can
handle the not-too-difficult demands of
jazz form competently enough, but very
few ever reach that level of creative
absorption which produces the poetry of
jazz. It usually takes visiting musicians
to reveal just how great is the difference
between jazz form which rises to the
level of poetic musicality and the easily-
predictable cliches, freshly juggled about
though they be, that make up most of
local jazz. This Downbeat concert was
memorable because despite the worst
acoustics in Melbourne it permitted
us to hear such music making with an
unprecedentedly stimulating result.
The music of Rogier Van Otterloo
with the Keith Hounslow Trio (the
rhythm section of the weekly Lee-
Hounslow group) was fresh, thoughtful
and exciting from beginning to end. It
had a vitality of structure and
musical depth which made the super-
ficial vitality of traditional ihythms
seem, in comparison, little more than
jazzy gestures. Van Otterloo did not
shine over the others, however; as at
the club he worked with them; Houns-
low’s muted horn was a voice of equal
importance throughout. This in itself
was exciting: such a standard, particu-
larly on a tension building concert plat-
form, would have been unthinkable a
year ago but, since working regularly
with the Lee group, Hounslow has
polished his own playing and improved
the group’s level of musicianship con-
siderably.
Their bracket was introduced by the
frenetic bop standard “Scrapple from the
Apple” to establish a group feeling.
Their first major performance was
Rogier’s arrangement of Thelonius
Monk’s “Blue Monk”. Hounslow’s line
was sensuous, languid and thoughtful.
Van Otterloo’s solo persued a different
course, though cleverly building up from
Hounslow’s chord sequence; he played
two hand style, percussive, militantly
pianistic; the style was Petersonesque
but the outcome was very much a
property of Van Otterloo. Monk’s
“Bemsha Swing” was more fluid, both
players working actively over the beauti-
fully integrated rhythm; Rogier’s solo
was very fluent, in the Garland tradition,
but strengthened by solidly laid down
chording. The Blakey tune “It’s You or
No One” was also rendered in a lively,
though quieter than the original, mannei
with some restrained and intelligent work
from Vining on drums.
Of the others, Miss Georgia Lee,
accompanied by the Frank Traynor
group, took us back to “the good old
days” of ten years ago, the time of Joan
Bilceaux when nearly everyone thought
of “Basin Street” as a blues; The Tem-
perate Seven, from Geelong, belied their
name; and a number of other local
bands played their usual styles of
revivalist-type Dixieland. The most
interesting of these groups were the
youngsters of the Red Onion and John
Hawes band.
The former group are extremely
promising: they have a cleaner, lighter
style than is usual in trad, bands and
have obviously striven to achieve the
precision and grace of the earlier Negro
bands; in fact that their leader is a
talented young drummer, obviously
influenced by Baby Dodds, may have
something to do with this.
The Hawes group, on the other hand,
favors a Lu Watters style, with a ten-
dency to showiness, both in music and
presentation. Both these groups are
capable of maturing into fine bands of
their type, the Red Onions particularly.
The existence of good young bands
interested in musical values is a promis-
ing sign though it seems that Melbourne
audiences will stick to the slogan “It’s
trad, dad” for a long time to come.
EDGAR POOLE
THEATRE
A SLIGHT SHOCK
The Dumb Waiter; A Slight Ache.
Harold Pinter. Sydney University
Dramatic Society. Union Theatre.
An Enemy of the People. Henrik Ibsen;
translated by Arthur Miller. New
Theatre. Sydney.
i"|NE of the most disturbing elements of
Australian theatrical activity is the
fact that the best, most ambitious, plays
are put on by groups least capable of
handling them properly. Yet a really
good play can often get across to an
audience despite incompetent and un-
imaginative acting. One could almost
say that the test of a play’s greatness is
the ability of the writing to survive poor
production. And, despite the propagan-
distic zeal of a very one-eyed production
at New Theatre, Ibsen’s freshly translated
masterpiece comes through glowingly,
while Pinter sagged with his actors’ un-
certainty.
Both these one-acters are in the
modern idiom, that is, like most con-
temporary art, the theme they serve stems
from the technique of the specific form,
rather than from some external passion:
they are dramatic episodes with macabre,
impressionistic undertones but no sub-
stance outside the drama of the situation
in hand. The Dumb Waiter well-produced
is an exciting and tense shock; handled
somewhat uncertainly by SUDS it was
mildly interesting. The producer, Albie,
in his excellent production of Jarry’s Übu
Roi some months back, has shown that
he has a strong feeling for anti-theatre
(Jarry’s work, written in 1896, is the
first manifestation of the aesthetic of anti-
art that found fruition in surrealism);
one expected a deeper understanding of
the inherent possibilities of this Pinter
piece, with its stress on rhythm and its
need for tight and controlled production.
But he failed to present this.
Greg Curran’s production of A Slight
Ach was much surer and gave Arthur
Dignum plenty of room to reveal his
considerable talent. Dick May, as the
grotesque, silent match seller was elec-
trifying in his corpse-like immobility
while the shock ending was truly a shock.
The play left a bitter taste in the mouth,
as much for its insubstantiality as for
its ugly twisting finale.
Arthur Miller’s new translation of An
Enemy of the People contains fresh,
contemporary dialogue and a clear per-
spective of the play’s social implications.
The second and third acts rise to the
peaks of great drama. In this we see how
much Sean O’Casey owes to the Norwe-
gian master. The New Theatre produc-
tion presented the Mayor and the towns-
people as unspeakably evil characters,
which tended to blunt the important
point that the Mayor, Hovstadt, Billings
and the others are all men of goodwill,
and to minimise the cruel irony of their
self-centred attitude to the Doctor. Such
heavy-handed conception of characterisa-
tion was, unfortunately, a main feature
of the production, allied with the ex-
pected lack of rhythmic control. And yet,
out of this shambling and poorly-stanced
movement, the sharp glory of Ibsen’s
drama emerged.
Miller’s rewriting has wiped away any
claim of the play being “dated”: the
characters as written are all believable:
the modernity of the play’s form and the
universality of its drama unquestionable:
every theatre-lover should see this pro-
duction for the plav alone What a pity
that we can’t see it for the acting that
the masterlv economy of its writing
demands.
ADRIAN RAWLINS


ART
GRAFTED ON AN ANCIENT TREE
Modern Japanese Prints. Art Gallery
of New South Wales. Sydney.
Japanese art is important for the
Pacific school for however much we
cling to European or East coast Ameri-
can movements or our own, some of its
influence is bound to filter through. In
substance, Japanese art has for decades
grafted new schools on its ancient tree.
A lot of them just refuse to be grafted
but others have flourished so astonish-
ingly well that we often see brilliant solu-
tions to problems facing artists who are
steeped in the international abstract
idiom. There exists on the other hand
subtle differences of approach and hand-
ling which one immediately associates
with sensibilities peculiar to Japanese
Art.
This exhibition of 93 woodblock and
stencil prints, etchings, lithographs and
serigraphs could in fact belong to no
other country, though at times as in
Hideo Hagiwara’s “Fantasy-Blue” we are
faced with something very close to the
spirit of a Rothko. Even prints less
accomplished artistically result from a
technical facility in part traditional, in
part supported by a range of materials,
papers, inks, woods etc., the variety and
richness of which is quite beyond the
reach of printmakers in Australia.
More significant, perhaps, is the con-
tinuance of a guiding aesthetic still
infused with the philosophy of Zen. Zen
propounds a measure of integration with
nature and it is interesting to see a
tempering of forms arising from a techno-
logical age being manipulated with enor-
mous subletly in order that they might
be acceptable in the continuance of
nature. Kikodoro's “Flower of Stone,”
Nomura’s excursions into space or the
three fine Yoshida’s strive after traces of
elemental activity one might see in stone
or wood surfaces explored by sun, air or
water.
In doing this sort of thing the Japan-
ese artist is being true to his indefinable
oriental magic of taking what is found
or given into the contemplative stillness
where these forms acquire mystery and
meaning. As never before there is the
force of the artistic personality but the
dominant mood seems to be receptive
rather than assertive; if something
happens the artist watches and follows.
One cannot imagine him becoming an
out and out action painter although
“action” has been an essential ingredient
of his method for centuries.
Any robustness is more likely to find
expression in a figurative form full of
the struggle of the old and the west.
There are plenty here who follow this
line in their own way just as several
others, mainly etchers who have
learned their craft in the US or Europe,
are reforging newly discovered ideas in
the old mystique. If anything unifies
this excellent show it is a kind of
sobriety and restraint in the choice of
color, some of it exquisite, one might
almost say classical. The mind of the
artist is fascinated with experiment but
his sensibilities lead him into the realm
of silence and meditation.
J. HENSHAW
SOMBRE CITIES
John Senbergs. Argus Gallery.
Melbourne.
T must confess some reluctance to break
A loose in praise of a twenty-two year-
old painter. Logically he still has a long
way to go, and it must follow, if he is
good now, that he will finish up well on
top. I hope John Senbergs does. He is
prolific, constructive and full of good
ideas. This large exhibition is not simply
promising, it is most successful. By the
way, in spite of his youth, this is not his
first one-man show. Two years ago he
had one at the Richman Gallery; and
I remember too, that his entry in last
year’s McCaughey Prize was one of the
most interesting.
He is Latvian by birth, but has been
trained here, notably in graphic arts be-
fore he moved on to painting. Like many
a printmaker his colour sense in ex-
ceptionally strong, varied and well-
controlled. He must also count as one
of the fortunes of his training, his friend-
ship with Len French, which has left a
clear mark on his style, if not on his
themes. What he has mainly in com-
mon with French are the small, simple,
flat shapes and the ability to construct
strong, solid images with them.
His subjects are drawn from a sombre,
rather Kafkaesque fantasy world, whose
settings recall the r iddle ages walled
cities, castles, towers. When people
appear they are isolated, either alone in
the city or brooding in solitude. This
awesome and mysterious atmosphere is
in itself attractive. But what makes the
paintings good is the absence of any
literary or philosophic pretension. The
idea is stated visually. It emerges strong-
ly because the painting is constructed
strongly. Thus our common visual ex-
perience is touched, and the idea is
evoked, which is the only way a painting
can work.
Senbergs has not yet hit on the grand
theme which will probably establish- him,
but there is such a wealth of well-
dqveloped, energetic ideas here that I
feel confident he will, perhaps quite soon.
At the moment the world he paints is
still too private, and derivative, but it
is nonetheless a rich and striking enough
world to demand attention.
One minor criticism must be made: the
surfaces are far too scratchy and streak-
ed. Carefully constructed paintings must
stand up to close analysis of texture, and
on that score these are disappointing.
BILL HANNAN
WADING WOMEN
Arthur Boyd. Whitechapel Gallery.
London.
HThe second big group of paintings
A shown, “The Blackman and his
Bride” series, is as well-known in Aus-
tralia as here. They retain their quiet,
their terrifying neatness, their mixture of
contrivance and conviction, detachment
and involvement, sensuality and grief.
Even the grief is sensual, even the sen-
suality grieving. What is most disturb-
ing in these pictures is their threat of
violence and the power with which the
sexuality of that threat is conveyed. I
don’t think it irrelevant that “Shearers
Playing Cards for a Bride” (1957-58)
should remind me of Stanley and his
friends watched by Blanche Dubois and
of the throbbing sensuality of the scene
in the film of “The Member of the
Wedding” where the girl-boy stood in
the white light by the window-screen and
watched the soft-winged moths beating
against the wire in their desire to touch
the light and die. Boyd shares that
adolescent certainty about emotion, its
validity and duration which both Wil-
liams and McCullers specialise in con-
veying, but he lacks their Southern ruin
gentility, their conservatory delicacy. He
paints with an Australian toughness and
the landscape surrounding his tortured
people is too vast, too continuing to
enable us to take them at their own
evaluation.
The newer pictures, painted in Eng-
land, are large boards filled with bush,
water, moonlight, nudes. Women wade,
drink, fall, fly. A white bride floats
straight on the air like an insect hover-
ing. Like insect life, all is ephemeral,
and the woman leaning to drink or to
love is angled into an insect shape. The
world changes; nothing is graspabie;
often it seems to be under water, through
gauze, and detail escapes humanity
merging into its reflection, man becoming
beast or tree, tree becoming man.
(Ray Mathew reviewed the first set of
Arthur Boyd’s paintings at the White-
chapel Gallery in last week’s Bulletin.)
RAY MATHEW


THE RED PAGE
AUSTRALIA: LAND OF BOREDOM
From NEIL McINNES in Paris
Thus sumptuous Swiss book on Austra-
lia* is, I understand, being issued
concurrently in the German language.
So it will serve to introduce our country
and its people to numerous Continentals
and Africans, who had at their disposal
till now, in the way of illustrated books
of comparable quality, only official
Government publications. It is one of
the first to appear in a new series
called “L’Atlas des Voyages”, of which
other books will deal with Cuba, the
Ivory Coast, Morocco, Hungary, Iran,
Syria, Tahiti, Andalusia and Brazil.
Perhaps a first Australian reaction
would be uneasiness, if not little resent-
ment, at being included in such a list.
For quite obviously the theme of the
collection is exoticism: the publisher is
preparing, for the benefit of armchair
travellers, pictures of really weird places
that they are never likely to visit. Mr
Meray says that Australians are con-
stantly comparing their country, either
apologetically or aggressively, with
certain others, but those others are the
white Dominions, the USA and above
all Britain. Britain, he notes, is for us
the queen’s mirror in the Snow White
story. Less commonly, if ever, do we
think to compare ourselves with Abys-
sinia or Venezuela, because however
different, inferior, superior or misun-
derstood we feel, we never feel exotic
or liable to appear weird, mysterious or
bizarre in the eyes of Europeans.
Nor, in truth, are we. So Mr Meray
and his publisher have some trouble in
fitting us into their collection. The
publisher tries a familiar trick to do this:
the aborigines. There are 50,000 of
them and 10 million of us, and for the
visiting foreigner we are more accessibly
located. Yet out of the 77 excellent
photographs in the book, 27 are of abor-
igines and all the 19 engravings are of
abo scenes. No one would illustrate a
book on the USA with so many pictures
of Redskins, or even Negroes. The strain-
ing after exoticism is evident. The Swiss
or Belgian who resolved to see Australia
on the strength of this, and then got
nothing but a sad trip out to La Perouse
would feel that he had been seriously
misled.
Mr Meray’s approach is more subtle.
The abos are dismissed briefly (after,
precisely, a trip to La Perouse) and our
claim to exoticism based on different
foundations. Roughly, he thinks that we
are so ordinary that we become odd, so
boring that we arouse curiosity, so direct,
taciturn and undemonstrative that we
become psychological curiosities, so
systematically vulgar that we achieve a
certain distinction. He does not say so
(and may not even realise it) but he
develops a line of Continental comment
on the Australian character that began
60 years ago or more: in Australia the
European can see his culture reduced
to its elements, European man stripped
of everything that diverts, divides and
complicates in Europe. As the Comte
de Beauvoir wrote long ago, the “local
color” of Australia is to have no local
color. This progressive loss of all distinc-
tion, refinement and complexity is at
first deplored by the foreigner as dull-
ness, boorishness or ennui, until one day
he realises that he has before him in
the Australian the authentic man with-
out qualities, and in Australia the miracle
of fascinating monotony. Thus by striv-
ing to merge into the scenery, we end up
standing out; we are so ordinary
that we become museum pieces, and so
dull that we are exotic like Persians and
Tahitians.
rpms line of argument can be developed
quite amiably, because throughout the
European feels a keen solidarity with us.
He is saying, there but for the grace
of Europe go /. Indeed, Mr Meray’s
last words are that “the most astonishing
of Australian contradictions” is “their
resemblance with us”, the Europeans!
That can only mean that the Australian
is as bizarre as the Tahitian but his other-
ness consists in being, not radically
foreign, but a European divested of
everything that Europeans thought con-
stitutive of their race but which they
now discover to be accidental, the pro-
duct of civilisation and local European
history.
Far from being ill-natured, Mr Meray
mentions everything that Australian
vanity would wish to be noticed by
foreigners. The women are beautiful, the
men athletic, and the wine! the life-
savers! the wealth! the generosity! the
lavatories in the pubs! But above all
Australia is the land of boredom, the
country where dullness reaches a parox-
ysm that makes it startling. “I would
hardly be exaggerating if I said that
everybody is bored here. Boredom seems
inherent in Australian life, like eating
and drinking. Everybody is bored and
when someone isn’t, there is astonish-
ment; no doubt he is not intelligent
enough to be bored. For, the higher
your level of intelligence, the more you
must be bored in Australia. At least,
that’s what a good part of the popula-
tion believes. People are always asking
foreigners what they think of the country
and they expect the reply, “Wonderful,
but boring”. Any other answer dis-
appoints. Anyhow, Australians have an
argument ready for visitors who are not
bored enough: “Of course, you’re just
passing through” ... In Australia bore-
dom is not something individual, but a
collective phenomenon”.
Mr Meray finds the causes of this
monotony in the general simplification
European culture has suffered by being
transplanted, but the reasons Australians
are so acutely aware of being bored are
three: the sense of exile from Europe
where all the “big things” must be
happening; the coldness and reserve of
personal relations in Australia; and the
institution of Sunday. Sunday is the day
that Europeans escape all the frustra-
tions and routine of modern life, but it
is just the day the Australian is con-
demned to blank emptiness. Right or
wrong, it is here that, for European
readers, Mr Meray really strikes a rich
exotic vein: his account of Sunday
trading laws and prohibitions in Austra-
lia will do doubt seem as stupefying as
anything the volumes on Cuba or Tahiti
could contain.
Naturally, Mr Meray notes all the
things our English visitors think worth
comment: his observations on the accent
and slang, the overdressing of the
women, beaches, pubs, democracy, White
Australia and economic prosperity echo
those of Pringle, for example. But, as
readers of the late “Observer” will know,
Mr Meray is a Hungarian novelist and
he is thus doubly qualified to give some
brief but effective pictures of New
Australians and their reaction to the
fifth continent. These are excellent and
will no doubt impress Continental
readers, who will find it easy to identify
themselves with his Dutch farmer, his
Hungarian vet and his German engineer,
all prospering materially but floundering
spiritually amid the Australian empti-
ness. Everywhere the problem is the
same —boredom —either that they, or
their wives or children spontaneously
mention it, or that Mr Meray, convinced
that it must be their problem, asks them
how they stick it in Australia and gets
lame answers. Although exposed to it for
shorter periods, during his two Austra-
lian tours, it evidently came to obsess
him personally. For instance, he became
afraid he was losing his sense of humor
or rather his judgment of what was
X’Australie. Tibor Meray. Editions
Rencontre.


really funny outside this dull context:
“The Australian ennui must have been
eating at me unconsciously for me to
have found that amusing”. He reports
asking a dairy farmer’s wife near Nowra
whether she too was bored: “She looks
at me as if she didn’t understand and
replies quite amiably, ‘Me? Of course
not. I’ve things to entertain me, you
know. For a start, there’s the annual
Nowra show on the sports ground . . .’ ”.
If these things were printed in an
English book, we should feel that we
were being “gotten at”. A book like
“Australian Accent” was probably as
much read in this country as in England,
or at least the author knew his most
critical audience would be Australian.
But when a Hungarian publishes a book
about us in Switzerland for readers of
French and German, we must put our-
selves in the role of eavesdroppers: when
they hear no good of themselves, they
are bound not to complain.
SKILLED IN BALSA
Say Nothing. James Hanley. Mac-
donald. 245.
Night Song. John Williams. Collins.
20s.
The Shapes of Sleep. J. B. Priestley
Heinemann. 225. 6d.
HHake a dingy terrace house in a British
A provincial town, expel the air, lock
the windows down firmly and populate
with three: Mrs Baines imperious and
grasping, Mr Baines vast, simple-minded
and devoted to the Bible, and angular in-
sane Winifred, who forever stares out the
front window dreaming of Tom, her
dead love, whom Mrs Baines took from
her the night before they were to be
married. It is in this series of hermetic
boxes that young Charles the narrator
lodges, and we share his incredulity at
the trio who are put before him sud-
denly, after life has subjected them to
a pressure of so many pounds to the
square inch that their speech in erratic,
their bodies misshapen.
Like the characters of O’Neill and
Arthur Miller, these people are presented
after their fates have been decided—the
Baines family have been brought so low
by circumstances that little more can
happen to them, life can only complete
its remorseless course. To that extent
“Say Nothing” is in the realist tradition;
but James Hanley goes far beyond offer-
ing pictures of ordinary existence—he
captures the essential domestic rhythms,
the quotidian rituals of eating, working
and sleeping, and builds a powerful
imagined world upon them, so that the
war of attrition, the dialectic within every
family, appears in all its power; nothing
—visitors, radio, papers—is allowed to
distract us from the tensions that bind
them: Winifred hating Mrs Baines, Mrs
Baines fearing poverty, Mr Baines long-
ing to leave.
This is the work of an intense highly-
developed talent, but Hanley, like Pat-
rick White, is one of those writers who
tend to make every moment so bright
with significance that there is no develop-
ment of action into final awareness:
when Charlie finally tears himself away
from the people whose concentrated
hopelessness has so horrified and fas-
cinated him, his act is theatrical rather
than dramatic.
Against the voltage of this sensibility,
“Night Song” seems 40-watt indeed,
though its subject-matter sounds excit-
ing enough: “a world of cool (sic), of
arrogant musicians and worrying night-
club owners, a world filled with admir-
ers, detractors, tourists, hipsters, squares
and weirdies, a world in which the days
are really nights because you lived mostly
in the dark and sang your song of life
then.”
But like many American studies of
the raw life of the instincts, the novel
is at base moralistic and sentimental:
David Hillary the failed white, admires
ace horn-player Eagle and cafe-manager
Keel, both negroes, because they’re
genuine—they affirm life, take it as it
comes, and are faithful to their friends.
But Hillary fails in his test: he doesn’t
cross the street to help Eagle in his
struggles with an officious cop. This is
convincing enough, but vh m he returns
to the cool negro world to confess his
cowardice, and suffers expiation by hav-
ing his face slapped again and again, the
result is Marlon Brando melodrama,
histrionic and inarticulate.
J. B. Priestley describes “The Shapes
of Sleep” as a tale not a novel, which
still doesn’t quite prepare us for the
spectacle of a reputable elder novelist
retailing a schoolboy yarn. “Oh I see.”
Sterndale pushed himself up from the
sofa. “The Major vanished, did he?
Somebody told Derek and Janet about
the car-—but then they couldn’t find
Churton-Spenser. Urgent report. I’m
surprised at you Plender. You must
know by this time they’re a couple of
idiots.”
The names, the characters and their
actions are reminiscent of the adolescent
fiction that used to be given out as prices
on school speech nights. Sterndale, the
sardonic masterful freelance journalist, is
given the task of working out who stole
a sheet of previous cyphers from an
advertising tycoon’s desk, and has to
cross Europe to get to the bottom of
it. The addition of a perspective of
worldly sophistication to such a story
produces something close to parody: as
if an established craftsman who has
turned out some solid artefacts in his
time has decided to demonstrate that
he is skilled also in balsa.
BARRY OAKLEY
OLD SYDNEY TOWN
Sydney in 1848. Joseph Fowles. Ure
Smith. 425.
Joseph Fowles’s “Sydney in 1848”,
** issued as a quarto in 1849 was some-
thing of an undertaking for its time
which, however, produced some astonish-
ing pieces of printing having regard to
the smallness of the colony and its isola-
tion from the advanced techniques of
Europe.
It was printed originally by D. Wall,
written and illustrated with copper
plates to the order of Fowles himself,
an accomplished artist with an obvious
knowledge of architectural drawing and
a capacity for taking pains. A first fac-
simile edition was issued thirty years
later by Gibbs Shallard and both the
first and second editions are now col-
lector’s pieces, as Ure Smith’s facsimile,
which carries an introduction by Morton
Herman, will also inevitably become.
Fowles set out to produce a complete
line-by-line picture of the main streets
of Sydney, covered by a copious descrip-
tion of the general features of the town
and of its history from the time Phillip
planted the flag near the northern end of
Macquarie Place in January, 1788. The
result was a tour de force in architectural
representation, a complete guide to every
building in the continuous streets of
Sydney 114 years ago.
If the antiquarian is disappointed to
find some streets not represented, it is
mainly only because they then contained
only scattered houses. But it is astonish-
ing otherwise to see how complete the
picture is and how comprehensive the
description. Moreover, it is possible to
see from the few buildings which survive
from Fowles’s period how carefully he
did his work. The publishers of the new
edition supply annotations from the work
of C. H. Bertie and others, but in the
light of modern information these might
have been usefully extended. As far as
they go, however, they are useful, as is
E. A. Ancher’s index.
M. H. ELLIS


BEGGING THE QUESTION
The Catholic Reformation. H. Daniel-
Rops. Trs. J. Warrington. Dent.
645. 9d.
I>ooks that form part of a “Grand
** Design” are an insidious, and expen-
sive, luxury. Things fall into place too
easily. For this reason I would advise
any reader who wants to spend a day
or two on the Catholic Reformation, to
get hold of Hubert Jedin’s volumes on
the Council of Trent. Jedin is a great
historian, which Daniel-Rops is not.
Jedin not merely reviews the conclusions
of the latest literature but also adds to
them by his own original work.
Daniel-Rops synthesises a motley col-
lection of books, mostly French and too
often out-of-date, and he adds little to
the debate.
I do not quarrel with the quality of
the work thus presented but with the
aim and method, for the first is too am-
bitious and the second too narrow. We
know enough about the leaders of the
Church in the sixteenth-century, about
the main areas of the Catholic reforms,
about the general nature of the missions
oversea. But where, for example, is the
historian who will bring us to the village,
to the town, into the heart of the Catho-
lic attempts to salvage something from
the, to them, disasters of the Reforma-
tion?
Yet this volume is not just “another
book” for, in covering the Catholic Re-
form from 1500 to 1622, it deals with
ideas and movements hardly dealt with
in existing works in English. The
author's literary and imaginative talents
make his account easy and pleasant to
read. The tone, however, is too conser-
vative, even for Catholics, I imagine, but
non-Catholics might not make that sort
of distinction and so tend to regard
Daniel-Rops as typical of Catholic
scholarship.
That would be a pity, for in terms of
scholarship there is a great deal that is
wrong with this book. A work of popu-
larisation—already seven years out of
date when it appears in translation
needs to have been uncommonly good
in the original. Those seven years have
seen a great deal of research by Alberigo,
Bilet, Gauss and Jedin, among others.
The least we can expect is that the author
had examined the latest secondary autho-
rities. To test this look at the chapter on
the Council of Trent. The bibliography
is unsatisfactory. Not a single work of
Jedin (the first volume of the “Geschichte
des Konzils” appeared in 1949); nothing
of Schreiber, “Das Weltkonzil von
Trient” [1950]. In the bibliography on
Loyola and Francis Xavier nothing is
said of Rahner or Schurhammer. You
cannot present a worthwhile synthesis in
those terms.
Certain topics, however, are well-
treated, e.g. the discovery of the New
World, the growth of the Missions, the
erection of “official Anglicanism”, the
early religious settlements in Canada. The
character studies are excellent and im-
press themselves on the mind of the
reader. And the same can be said of the
author's description of events, such as
the sack of Rome in 1527 by the Em-
peror’s troops, or the voyage of Francis
Xavier to Japan in 1549.
This is not matched by a similar in-
sight into the ideas and motives of the
Catholic reformers. On the basic ques-
tions as to the origin of these things,
Daniel-Rops aligns himself with those
who reject the term “Counter-Reforma-
tion”:
“The so-called ‘Counter-Reforma-
tion’ did not begin with the Council of
Trent, long after Luther; its origins
and initial achievements were much
anterior to the fame of Wittemberg.
It was undertaken, not by way of
answering the ‘reformers’, but in obe-
dience to demands and principles that
are part of the unalterable tradition of
the Church and proceed from her most
fundamental loyalties”.
But that for the historian is begging
the question. The author himself must
have felt this for later he recognises that:
“we must frankly acknowledge the
historical (or dialectical) function of
Protestantism in the evolution of these
principles ... On the strictly spiritual
plane the Catholic revival . . . owed
nothing to anti-Protestant endeavours;
but on the doctrinal level the blows
delivered by the heretics led the Church
to discern more clearly those points of
her structure which were threatened
and to reinforce them accordingly”.
In this way Daniel-Rops arrives at the
same truth as discerned by historians
more sober than he, but also less imagi-
native. His weakness and his strength
lie in this, that he too easily throws off
the trapping of the historian or has failed
to assume them completely. He uses
language and instruments denied to most
of us —Grace and Providence and the
Ficles Numquam Deficient. Here the
historian cannot follow, nor can he judge.
JOHN GILCHRIST
HANDLED WITH CARE
The Writer in the Modern World. Ed.
Stanley Tick and H. P. Heseltine.
Cheshire. 13s. 6d.
fTKvo aspects of this anthology seem to
me to deserve special praise. One
is the way the five Australian writers
have been introduced into the general
company of those —Englishmen, Ameri-
cans, Irishmen, Anglo-Indians who
share with them the use of the English
language. For once no special claim is
made, no special treatment demanded.
The writers are left to fend for them-
selves. We draw our own comparisons
and conclusions.
The Australian writer as presented is
urban in his attitudes as in his interests,
and every bit as articulate as his con-
temporaries overseas. Henrietta Drake-
Brockman writes of Australian cities in
the blackout of 1941-42 and Kenneth
Slessor of his own poetry while Alister
Kershaw and Patrick White argue the
advantages and disadvantages of ex-
patriatism.
There is the bitter pill of Patrick
White’s “Great Australian Emptiness”,
in which the mind is the least of pos-
sessions, in which the rich man is the
important man, in which the school-
master and the journalist rule what in-
tellectual roost there is, in which beauti-
ful youths and girls stare at one another
through blind blue eyes, in which human
teeth fall like autumn leaves, the but-
tocks of cars grow hourly glossier, food
means cake and steak, muscles prevail
and the march of material ugliness does
not raise a quiver from the average
nerves . . . and the final cautious faith
that “one may be helping to people a
barely inhabited country with a race
possessed of understanding”.
The other thing I would praise is the
care with which the pieces have been
chosen to illustrate contemporary atti-
tudes and problems, Richard Wright’s
“Black Boy” presents concretely and from
the inside the difficulties of a young
negro in finding his way to self-expres-
sion. the terrible human results of pre-
judice and the wonder of a young mind
glimpsing for the first time its possi-
bilities; Cyril Connolly writes with
savage anti-heroism of what it means
to suffer the horrors of war without
the attendant glory, as an ordinary civil-
ian; C. P. Snow analyses the “two cul-
tures”; George Orwell, in a brilliant essay
on language and politics, warns us that:
“In our age there is no such thing as
‘keeping out of politics. All issues are
political issues, and politics itself is a
mass of lies, evasions, folly, hatred and
schizophrenia.”
But not all these pieces are as serious
as the previous paragraphs might sug-
gest. Thurber writes with his usual wry
humor of his university days; E. B.
White and Richard Lee Stroud add to
twentieth-century mythology with their


elegy to a T-Model Ford; Dylan Thomas
recreates with parnassian hullabaloo an
August Bank holiday.
Perhaps it is quibbling after all this
to regret the inclusion of Forster the
Journalist in a second-rate piece on the
Paris exhibition, and to suggest that the
four sections into which the anthology
is divided seem abitrary and, except per-
haps to the public examiner, of little
obvious use.
DAVID MALOUF
THE ROAD TO MANDALAY
Journey into Burmese Silence. Marie
B. Byles. Allen and Unwin. 41s. 6d.
Thus is an account of the search for a
A quiet retreat in which to learn the
art of meditation, that is, of how to still
the thoughts and find the insight that lies
beyond intellect. It tells of the ultimate
finding of such a retreat at the Maha
Bodhi Meditation Centre in Burma, and
of life at this and other Burmese medita-
tion centres.
The author, an Australian lawyer by
profession and a mountaineer by interest,
discovered Buddhism while on a visit
pre-war to India and China. Feeling the
need for spiritual and moral values that
would give meaning to life she came to
be envious of the saffron-robed Buddhist
with his serenity and certainty of mind.
Her decision to take up the study seriously
was made after her return. “For those
who like peace and solitude,” she writes,
“Sydney is wonderfully situated.” She
joined the local Buddhist Society and a
chance meeting with a Burmese lady
encouraged her to go back along the
road to Mandalay.
The people who practise insight medi-
tation are known as yogis. The object of
yoga is to recognise that everything con-
sists of atoms in ceaseless coming and
going and by concentration, a process
induced by the repetition of certain speci-
fied exercises, the self comes to be replac-
ed by a state of Nirvana or bliss. The
social precepts followed are: “Non-kill-
ing, not taking what is given, truthful-
ness, not indulging in wrongful sexual
passion, not eating after noon, avoidance
of shows, dancing, and music, of high
and luxurious beds, of perfumes, cos-
metics and garlands.”
For those unfamiliar with yoga and
Buddhism the text has much to offer.
The narrative has little grace or style
about it but as a personal statement of
how one with a nonconformist back-
ground came to find “zest, calm, peace
and happiness” it has more than conven-
tional interest. Yet despite its sincerity
and serious intent I find myself basi-
cally out of sympathy with the logic of
the book. While there may be something
to be said for going into monastic retreat
and focusing intensely on God as a
means of renewing one’s faith or one’s
prejudices, topping-up as it were one’s
spiritual batteries, in Buddhism God is
absent and for all its scientific vocabu-
lary practice of it is really no more than
sitting under the fever trees to contem-
plate one's ear.
It is a submissive, feminine way of life
that emphasises the slave virtues of
humility, ignorance and loving kindness.
Truth may be arrived at in many ways
but its verification rests on the encounter
between minds. Meditation in the present
context is not a thinking over the issues
but effecting a total withdrawal from,
thought, a condition already present in a
manhole cover or a Murray cod. To
lose the awareness of pain is to deny one's
own humanity.
DOUGLAS TERRY
PRIVATE EYE
Death of a Painted Lady. Brian
Cleeve. Hammond Hammond.
13s. 6d.
T>rian Cleeve, asked to leave South
Africa because of his views on apar-
theid, moved to Dublin and has since
been making a handsome living out of
becoming a most successful and popular
magazine short-story writer. With this
book he also lays claim to being one of
the best thriller writers around today.
A beautiful but frigid model is raped
and throttled in an art dealer’s gallery.
There are six genuine and credible sus-
pects, the wrong man (or is he?) is
charged, it is all unravelled in a beauti-
fully-written courtroom finale and
throughout the characters and the
Dublin they live in are brought brilliantly
to life. Not only a great murder
mystery, but a very commendable novel.
Don’t miss it.
The Wycherly Woman. Ross Mac-
donald. Collins. 18s. 9d.
Standard American thriller, a little
more confusing than most, but relaxing
reading just the same. The daughter of
a wealthy man vanishes and private eye
Lew Archer moves in to discover three
murders, a lot of frustrated, but mostly
unattractive, women upon whom he
never lays a finger, two blackmailers
and a very mixed-up family. No
violence, no really unlikely situations,
just 300-odd pages of pleasant reading
and one problem to solve.
Coffin in Oxford. Gwendoline Butler.
Collins. 14s. 6d.
A young artist is found on two
occasions locked in a dark cupboard
half-throttled with once a tie, and the
other time a scarf. Then he goes away
on a trip and a body is found in a trunk
in his room, /»//y-throttled with a tie.
The painter’s fiancee tries to believe in
her boy, but the thought keeps crossing
her mind that he might really be off
his nut and waiting around to throttle
her, too. In this situation Miss Butler
-—in a tight, tidy and very readable style
works up quite a bit of suspense.
Towards the end it even gets quite
spooky, and the surprise ending really
surprises. Recommended.
The Busy Body. Elizabeth Ferrars.
Collins. 15s. 6d.
When a girl marries a man she’s
known only a few weeks she can expect
trouble —but not quite this much. Our
heroine finds her husband has a loutish
identical twin who is apparently a jewel
thief. Then he is murdered and sus-
picion falls like tropical rain on just
about everybody. But it’s pretty obvious
that most of the leading suspects are
duck-backed and you just cannot believe
that any one of them would commit
murder. So Miss Ferrars has to cheat
and pick on somebody you’d never
suspect. All too terribly, terribly
English and so terribly, terribly slow,
but ladies who like their murders well-
divorced from reality will probably like
it.
Headlines Make Murder. Osmington
Mills. Collins. 17s.
If you don’t shriek in protest at the
quite ridiculous inanities of a bunch of
impossible people working on an im-
probable provincial paper in England for
some 100 pages before the first body is
found, then you’ll stomach anything.
You’ll even find it quite OK that a con-
stable finding a man who has apparently
fallen from a bridge on a dark night
can decide without hesitation (or evi-
dence) that this is murder. And if you
are still interested after that you might
even enjoy finding the coy little clues
that are scattered like chaff in the windi-
ness of this book’s last half. The
murderer (but wasn’t it an accident?) is
caught, all the reporters are amazed at
the clodhoppers’ skill, and life in the
provinces rolls drearily on, and on, and
on. . .
FRANK MARGAN


(ADVERTISEMENT)
PENGUIN NEWSLETTER
This month's selection of new Pen-
guins is as varied as usual, although it
would appear that fans of Orwell and
Snow are particularly catered for in the
Fiction series. There are four new titles
by George Orwell, these all being his
earlier works originally published as far
back as 1936.
Homage to Catalonia is his famous
and embittered account of the militia
fighting and the back-area politics of
the Spanish Civil War. The Road to
Wigan Pier is a series of essays giving
us stark reports on unemployment, on
slums, and on mining in pre-war Eng-
land. His two novels Keep the Aspi-
distra Flying and Coming Up for Air
are also included. The former is about
an angry young man of the ’thirties—
a poet obsessed by poverty, and the
latter written on the eve of the Second
World War about an ordinary man’s
attempt to escape into childhood.
The three novels by C. P. Snow are
in the “Stranger and Brothers” sequence,
and are Strangers and Brothers, Time of
Hope, and The Affair. “The New States-
man,” has said, “Mr Snow has estab-
lished himself, on his own chosen ground,
in an eminent and conspicuous position
among contemporary English novelists.”
It was Lawrence’s habit to express his
opinion indirectly but passionately in
the form of poetry or fiction. There-
after—when, as frequently happened,
controversy raged around his works of
the imagination he would sit down
to express clearly, forcefully, and direct-
ly the precise nature of his views. You
now have the opportunity of reading
some of these views in the new Pen-
guin Apropos of Lady Chatterley’s Lover
and Other Essays. These essays were
written by a man who suffered more
persecution by censorship than almost
any other writer of the century. Apart
from his personal defence of Lady Chat-
terley’s Lover —“I want men and women
to be able to think sex, fully, completely,
honestly, and cleanly”—this volume con-
tains: Mark Shorer’s famous introduc-
tion to the American edition of Lady
Chatterley’s Lover; Lawrence’s introduc-
tion to Pansies, his collection of poems
which fell into the hands of “Jix”, the
Home Secretary, in 1929; his introduc-
tion to a volume of his paintings—of
which the exhibition had been closed;
and his essay on Pornography and
Obscenity.
A modern novel by Stan Barstow,
which received very good reviews when
first published and is the basis of a
film to be released in Australia soon,
is among the new Penguins. This novel,
A Kind of Loving, describes a young
man's physical infatuation for a girl he
does not love, and his struggle to fir..,
an honest and honorable solution.
Outstanding among the new Pelican...
is J. K. Galbraith’s The Affluent Society.
Professor Galbraith makes a devastating
attack on “the bland leading the bland"
through the wasteland of outdated eco-
nomic ideas. Two other Pelicans are
Childhood and Adolescence by J. A.
Hadfield, in which the author explains
simply how the mind matures and is
shaped during the early years, and The
Economic History of World Population,
a wide study of the problems arising
from greatly increased population,
Within the Penguin Specials a new
sub-series Britain in the Sixties is being
formed. The first two titles are Com-
munications by Raymond Williams, and
Education for Tomorrow by John
Vaizey. Raymond Williams’ definition of
communication is “the passing of ideas,
information, and attitudes from person
to person”. Who forms your values,
colors your opinions? You ... or
shadowy figures in newspaper offices,
television studios, broadcasting stations,
or advertising agencies? In Education
for Tomorrow John Vaizey maintains
that Britain’s fuddy-duddy society is
based on fuddy-duddy schools; secondly,
the nation’s survival in the years ahead
is going to depend on a new style of
education.
The two new Poets this month are
both anthologies. The New Poetry is
a personal selection of modern poetry
made by the “Observer’s” poetry critic,
A. Alvarez. In his preface, Mr Al-
varez points out that this book is a
personal anthology and makes no claims
to give a sample of every kind of verse
now being written in Great Britain The
Penguin Book of Chinese Verse is a
representative anthology in English verse
translation by Robert Kotewell and
Norman L. Smith, and is introduced and
edited by Professor A. R. Davis of
Sydney University.
Two new crimes this month are
Murder in Pastiche by Marion Main-
waring, an amusing skit on some of the
best-known crime writers, and by George
Milner Your Money and Your Life, in
which a cold careerist faces a murder
charge.
This month’s new Puffins are C. S.
Lewis’s sequel to The Lion, the Witch,
and the Wardrobe, Prince Caspian, and
Tell Me a Story edited by Eileen Col-
well, which contains stories, verses, and
finger-plays for children of 3 to 5 years
old.
All these books and many others are
in your local bookseller’s hands now
and he will be only to pleased to show
them to you.
New
ft
Penguins
FOUR EARLY OR WELLS
Coming Up for Air (ss. 6d.)
Keep the Aspidistra Flying (ss. 6d.)
The Road to Wigan Pier (55.)
Homage to Catalonia (55.)
C. P. SNOW
Strangers and Brothers (65.)
Time of Hope (7s. 6d.)
The Affair (65.)
D. H. LAWRENCE
Apropos of Lady Chatterley’s Lover
and Other Essays (4s. 6d.)
STAN BARSTOW
A Kind of Loving (ss. 6d.)
J. K. GALBRAITH
The Affluent Society (7s. 6d.)
J. A. HADFIELD
Childhood and Adolescence (7s. 6d.)
CARLO M. CIPOLLA
The Economic History of World
Population (ss. 6d.)
RAYMOND WILLIAMS
Britain in the Sixties: Communica-
tions (ss. 6d.)
JOHN VAIZEY
Britain in the Sixties: Education for
Tomorrow (4s. 6d.)
Trans. D. L. SAYERS and
B. REYNOLDS
Dante: The Divine Comedy 111:
Paradise (7s. 6d.)
Ed. A. ALVAREZ
The New Poetry (ss. 6d.)
Ed. ROBERT KOTEWELL,
NORMAN L. SMITH and
A. R. DAVIS
The Penguin Book of Chinese Verse
(65.)
Ed. EILEEN COLWELL
Tell Me a Story (ss. 6d.)
C. S. LEWIS
Prince Caspian (55.)
MADGE GARLAND
Fashion (Bs. 6d.)
FRANCES PARKINSON KEYES
If I Ever Cease to Love (7s. 6d.)
GEORGE MILNER
Your Money and Your Life (55.)
MARION MAINWARING
Murder in Pastiche (55.)
V;
PENGUINS FOR
GOOD READING


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
GOVERNMENTS PERPLEXED ABOUT
THE RABBIT PROBLEM
TS/Ben the State Ministers of Agricul-
ture and the Federal Minister for
Primary industry meet as the Australian
Agricultural Council in Perth on July
27 they will share their conference table
with a spectre —the grim memory of the
rabbit plagues which devastated huge
tracts of Australia in the first 50 years
of this century.
One of the most important matters on
the council’s agenda will be the vexed
question of Shope fibroma virus. This
virus, originally a disease of the Ameri-
can cottontail rabbit, is being used by
NSW commercial rabbit farmers to pro-
tect their rabbits against myxomatosis.
All other States have banned the use
of fibroma and pressure has been
mounting for a similar ban in NSW.
The pressure has come not only from
NSW graziers, who are also strongly
opposed to commercial rabbit farming,
but from numerous influential farmers’
bodies interstate including the
National Farmers’ Union and the Aus-
tralian Primary Producers’ Union.
Until recently Australian scientists
were violently divided on the possible
dangers of Shope fibroma. One school
said the virus was similar to myxoma
virus and there was a grave risk it
would spread in a similar manner from
domestic farm rabbits to wild rabbits
leading eventually to the large-scale im-
munisation of wild rabbits against
myxomatosis.
The other school said this was non-
sense that there was no evidence
that fibroma spread readily from one
rabbit to another, from domestic to
wild rabbits, or even that it would spread
among Australian wild rabbits at all.
To resolve the question CSIRO and
the Victorian and NSW Governments in-
vited the discoverer of fibroma, Dr Rich-
ard E. Shope, of the Rockefeller Insti-
tute, New York, to Australia to examine
the position here and make recommen-
dations.
Dr Shope’s report shocked the pro-
fibroma school. After stressing that
much remained to be discovered about
fibroma virus, the man who has studied
it more closely than anyone else warned:
“I believe there is a definite hazard of
unknown magnitude.” This convinced
all but diehard fibroma supporters that
use of the virus should be re-examined.
Victoria, after banning the virus it-
self, called for similar bans interstate
(except that it agreed fibroma could
continue to be used under strictly super-
vised conditions in scientific labora-
tories).
The “Ban the Virus” move gained
fresh impetus recently from reports that
rabbit kittens apparently a cross
between wild and domestic rabbits -
had been found in a burrow near a
Wagga commercial rabbit farm.
This posed the question: If domestic
rabbits can escape and breed with wild
rabbits, can fibroma be passed on to the
wild rabbit population? The answer, of
course, is that nobody knows.
And this is the whole key to the
fibroma controversy. There are too many
unknowns. As one scientist said recently:
“If it is too dark to see the height of
the cliff, don’t jump.”
New South Wales has so far resolutely
refused to withdraw its support from its
Government-encouraged embryo com-
mercial rabbit industry by banning
fibroma. But it is obvious that the NSW
Government is weakening. It has now
gone as far as saying that it will decide
what steps to take when it has heard the
views of the Australian Agricultural
Council.
These views are a foregone conclusion.
The other States are bound to tell
NSW: “There is too much risk . . . you
must ban fibroma too.”
And the Commonwealth’s attitude
became plain last week when the Fed-
eral Health Minister, Senator Wade,
ordered the Commonwealth Serum Lab-
oratories to stop selling the fibroma it
produces to anyone other than author-
ised scientific institutions.
Even CSIRO, which has wavered
between support for fibroma and an un-
comfortable position on the fence, seems
to be swinging towards Dr Shope’s view.
Certainly CSIRO is well aware of the
continued importance of myxomatosis
to Australia. In the latest issue of its
“Rural Research” bulletin the organisa-
tion gives one of its most forthright ever
warnings against the peril of the rabbit
in the next few years.
“The conclusion is inescapable that
in the fight against rabbits we have been
coasting along complacently on borrowed
time,” it says. “In the early 1950 s myxo-
matosis provided us with an invaluable
breathing space. Since then the boon
of low rabbit numbers, which we have
ascribed to the continued efficacy of
the disease, has really been due as much
—if not more to the weather.
“Although the potency of myxoma-
tosis is diminishing and it is unlikely ever
again to be the destructive force that
it was in 1951-52, the disease will con-
tinue to be a valuable ally in rabbit
control.
“But a few' favorable breeding seasons
could see a return of the rabbit problem
in all its pre-1951 enormity.
“Unless a co-ordinated and energetic
attack is launched now, while the enemy
is still weak, the prospect facing many
farmers is alarming.”
These are strong words from a usually
restrained and cautious research organi-
sation, but they bear out similar warn-
ings from rabbit destruction men in sev-
eral States. These men believe the rabbit
is on the increase again and, given a few
favorable seasons, could rapidly build
up to plague numbers again.
With Australian agriculture facing its
toughest ever test on competitive world
markets in the next decade, every pos-
sible step must be taken to keep costs
down and make our farmlands more
productive.
Myxomatosis still kills more rabbits
than any other agency . . . countless
millions every year throughout Aus-
tralia. Can we afford to risk losing a
weapon of this size?
POULTRY FARMS HAVE
NEW PROBLEM
day has gone for good when a
A poultry farmer was a man with a
few score hens scratching around a pad-
dock near the house. Today many ex-
perts regard 2000 birds as an economic
number and open-range or pen-raising
of birds has been replaced on most
modern farms by “batteries” of wire
cages in which hens spend all their lay-
ing lives.
But the batteries have brought with
them a problem not fully envisaged—
the fly problem. Manure from the hens
falls through the wire mesh floors of
the cages and collects—sometimes for
months—in cone-shaped piles under the
cages, and flies breed in this manure.
Spraying with insecticides does not
completely solve the problem, because
the flies rapidly develop a resistance.
Melbourne is giving the problem seri-
ous study, but on overseas experience
the solution is not easy and probably
depends in the long run on the exile
of battery poultry farms to rural areas.


The Wild
Cat Pages and
THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
THE IMPORTANCE OF U.S.
ECONOMIC CORRECTIVES
/An the eve of our own Federal Budget,
from which a goodly number of
observers expect just that encouragement
to send a slowly improving economy
further along its path, the eyes of many
countries are fastened upon the Ameri-
can growth pattern. Since the May 29
Wall Street shock, and its wider indus-
trial echoes, a profound uneasiness has
seized quite a few sectors of world
business.
These know by hard experience that
the tentacles of even a moderate U.S.
slump travel far outside the one
economy. They also recognise con-
tinuous signs of an international
currency crisis flowing from intense and
extensive doubts on the dollar’s capacity
to conquer its internal and external
strains.
Lots of voices prophesy the end of the
great postwar boom economies and
preach a nervous caution inhibiting any
advance. Confusing growth with infla-
tion, there exist not a few to defend a
dangerous slide as a necessary corrective
before stability. It is not by such timi-
dities that adequate solutions suggest
themselves.
Nonetheless we should be foolish to
disregard fears of another American
recession or to turn our backs upon
symptoms which may, in the end, point
towards a decisive remedy. But we must
clearly recognise the dangers in the
American situation.
World trade, which has shown many
evidences of becoming better organised,
still reposes upon an increasingly feeble
credit base. The American economy
could well gain health from some very
measures that might further weaken the
dollar.
London’s gold markets are almost
besieged by buying orders from sources
reluctant to pile up dollar reserves and
not fortify their overall reserves with
gold. Amsterdam and Zurich bankers
openly canvass the revaluation of gold.
It is perhaps comforting that the same
experts do not sight a world recession in
the offing.
Yet the U.S. downturn and balance-of-
payments crisis remain to perplex. The
Administration is being urged to reflate,
though does not seem in any undue
hurry to do so. In these circumstances,
Mr Kennedy’s compulsion to mix politics
with economics, to placate a dubious
Congress, looks particularly dangerous.
Action, and that fairly drastic, must
be taken soon. The Americans cannot
afford to see their gloomy predictions
turn true and bring the rest of the world
into a counter-expansionary mood. They
equally cannot dare to allow ancestral
voices to lift an outcry against tax
reductions and a measure of deficit
finance a la Keynes.
The U.S. Secretary of the Treasury
(Mr Dillon) has recently sounded a
trifle more optimistic in contemplating a
greatly reduced baiance-of-payments
deficit. This A fition, arriving soon
enough, could enable the internal diffi-
culties to be treated more easily.
No one, anywhere, sees even the
slightest possibility of a 1930-type
depression. What we have to hope is
that the Americans correct a relatively
minor slump before its tendencies spread.
City Diary
Qome big Sydney and Melbourne under-
writing brokers feel the interest rate
applying to loans raised by the smaller
local government services needs a bit of
a lift.
At the standard rate of 5f p.c., inves-
tors are growing reluctant to finance
these less prominent enterprises, leaving
tendering underwriters to fill more of the
bag.
There is, perhaps, a tendency for the
smaller undertakings (electricity and
water, for instance) to be swallowed by
larger supply organisations. To preserve
a worthy independence a differential
interest rate, as operated in Queensland,
might be required or more direct Gov-
ernment financial assistance.
npRADE and commercial jargon often
A employs a fanciful language all its
own. Travellers by TAA during the last
financial year may be glad to know that
they helped the airline achieve an Aus-
tralian record for “passenger uplift.”
Directness approaches as the money
gets closer —the line flew 1,147,360 pay-
ing passengers. Passenger miles elon-
gated themselves to a total 551,677,857
within Australia and Papua/New
Guinea, a 0.7 increase. That figure is
reached from 27,900 scheduled flights
over 17,865,334 actual miles.
1%/fR Douglas Darby, MLA for Manly,
-*■*-* visited Melbourne last week to study
the public transport system and to see
how the Victorian Government made out
without poker-machine revenue.
He promised on his return to Sydney
to get up, a lone figure in Parliament, and
say that poker machines were bad.
Colin Street
INDEX
City Diary 43
Editorial That 1962-63
Deficit 44
New Move on Margins 45
Economics Anonymous 46-47
Investment Section .... 48-49
Talk Around ’Change .... 50-51
Boats are Big Business 52
Slump in Oil Search 52
Future of Kathleen Investments 53
Behind the Balance Sheets 54-55
Speculator’s Diary 56
One To Buy 57
Stock Market 53
Flurry Over Poisons Law 60-61


Editorial
THAT 1962 -63 DEFICIT-
ACTIVE OR PASSIVE?
As anxious as any organisation to
see the pace of recovery accel-
erated, the Australian Associated
Chambers of Commerce stated last
week that the envisaged cash deficit
of the order of £lOO million for 1962-
63 “will be largely a passive deficit
having only an indirect impact on
business through the liquidity in the
banking system and the second-round
effects of public expenditure.”
It then goes on to say that a
“sizeable deficit can be accepted as
appropriate in the circumstances and
should not be used as an argument
against further stimulus to the private
sector.”
To say the least, this statement gives
a misleading view of the effect of
deficit financing.
The main misconception derives
from the fact that, except when used
for the purpose of repaying debt to
the banking system or redeeming
loans, all Government expenditure,
whether financed by a deficit or
otherwise, has an initial impact on
business whatever happens to it after
the first time round.
Pattern of disposal
A fter the first round its impact on
business will depend on the
pattern of its disposal by recipients.
In no sense can a deficit be dubbed
“largely passive” unless it is used to
pay off Government debt.
Broadly interpreted, a cash deficit
means one certain thing—that the
Federal Government puts that much
more money into the system than it
takes out in any given year from all
sources.
Second, it has to be financed by
either the issue of Treasury Bills or
net drawings from the Government's
overall bank accounts.
The Associated Chambers of Com-
merce seem to have devised their ap-
proach in the light of the slowness
with which bank deposits have been
activated over the last year, coupled
with the comparative ineffectiveness
of Government stimulants designed to
aid business.
For, presumably, by “largely a pas-
sive deficit” is meant that most of the
surplus of Government expenditure
over receipts from all sources (includ-
ing loans) in the current year will be
neutralised in the banking system
after expenditure has made its first
impact (though the statement does
not even recognise there will be a
first impact).
It also seems to mean that most
recipients of income financed by the
deficit will leave it lying idle on
deposit at banks, and that the banks
will fail to reactivate the additional
deposits by increasing their advances.
In other words the statement seems
to say that the envisaged deficit will
simply increase the already highly
liquid state of the economy without
any guarantee that this liquidity will
be used to increase the tempo of
business, and that additional stimul-
ants may be required to activate the
private sector, thinking perhaps of
lower interest rates.
Two observations seem apposite.
One is that the overdraft limits of
the banking system are higher than
ever, which presumably means that
business expects to be using up the
liquidity of the banking system and
activating deposits on an increasing
scale.
The other is that the spending
stimulants operating since February
have been largely financed out of loan
receipts.
This enabled the Government to
show such a low deficit for 1961-62,
whereas the deficit for the current
year will have to be largely financed
by Treasury Bills.
While thoroughly agreeing with the
Chambers of Commerce (if they in
fact think this) that lower interest rates
would be very helpful in stimulating
recovery by encouraging industrial in-
vestment, their argument seems to
neglect the all-important fact that a
£lOO million deficit financed by
Treasury Bills will have a strong mul-
tiplying effect on incomes irrespective
of its effect on other money utilisa-
tion.
With this spur to spending and in-
come generation from export industries
very strong, only a revival in indus-
trial investment would seem to be
lacking to give the full mixture for
economic buoyancy.
One would have thought that a
responsible body of businessmen such
as the Associated Chambers of
Commerce would be as aware as any-
body of the inflationary implications
of pumping £lOO million of Treasury
Bill money into the system, especially
in a year when all the signs point to
a strong revival of confidence in the
private sector. For there is no doubt
at all that, committed to a level of
expenditure which entailed finding
this £lOO million from the Reserve
Bank, the Government would be
faced with an explosive inflationary
situation in the event of an upsurge of
industrial investment.
So in writing off the envisaged
deficit as largely inconsequential, the
Associated Chambers of Commerce
fail to see the Treasurer’s problem. In
a nutshell this is to provide, as far as
this can be done through fiscal policy
the right degree of continued stimulus
for the economy, a stimulus which
will carry recovery to the point where
the private sector is prepared to take
up the running from Government
stimulants by undertaking a sufficiency
of new investment.
No shotgun wedding
critical criteria for the Treasurer
is business confidence. He
will be well aware that this tender
plant has not grown as lustily as might
have been hoped since the 20 p.c.
investment allowances were given in
his last Budget and that his February
spending stimulants have also failed
to do the trick. He will also be aware
that surplus capacity still exists in
industry and that spontaneous forces
inducing industrialists to undertake
new expension of capacity are now
fairly weak and must be wooed.
Business confidence will certainly
not respond to a Budget which
attempts to spend our way to full
employment. For this is the way of
inflation, which can only have a
depressing aftermath. The cycle is
anathema to business confidence.
Better that the courtship be slow and
sure, and no shotgun wedding.


You’re so right...
insist on
‘BLACK &
WHITE’
;uv ))>
[nduScoto^lk
' BLACK
Lv 4
WHITE l
BUCHANAN SO
[ASCOW SCOTLM
W fr APR OINTU V.xA
Mf# MAJ€ STY 1 VAV C^\YVA>
aLJ
„ SCOTCH WHISKY
BLACK & WHITE
special see no of
„ BUCHANAN'S
CHOICE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
SCOTCH WHISKY OISTIU.JSS
GLASGOW fa LONDON
oisTiunir muimm SPfrsiM Kon*»t
NET CONTENTS I PINT 6 FLUIO OZS
(xl
4*
n 't.
?(
t %
Q
IT+V V
/. it
BLACKt. WHITE
SCOTCH WHISKY
"BUCHANAN'S"
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO. LTD., GLASGOW, SCOTLAND & LONDON
N.S.W. Distributors:
John Cawsey & Co. Pty. Ltd., Box 61 P.O. Lidcombe, N.S.W. 648-0391
J 8146
NEW MOVE
ON
MARGINS
IXhe unions' move to make 1962 a
“wage and salary justice year” reads
rather oddly with 93,000 registered un-
employed, but apparently the reluctant
demand for labor is of small import in
the matter.
The general case being prepared to
get the Arbitration Commission to rub-
ber stamp the unions’ claim for higher
wage margins is unlikely to get as far
as it possibly should in the light of
improvements in industrial technology.
Nor, in bringing in white collar workers
in the shape of the civil service and
salaried and professional bodies as rein-
forcements in the coming battle does the
ACTU seem to have improved its
chances.
What the ACTU is tr ' _j to do now
is to link what may well be a valid case
for increasing margins in certain indus-
tries with a general submission that
margins over the whole field of employ-
ment should be increased, irrespective of
increases in productivity in any particular
industry. Put bluntly this submission is
that workers on margins are not getting
their fair share of the product of their
industry. As such it represents the most
direct challenge for years to the pattern
of national income distribution.
This impression is reinforced by the
weakness any submission at this juncture
would have on the grounds of increases
in the cost of living since the full Arbi-
tration Commission granted the 28 p.c.
increase in margins in its judgment of
November, 1959. The consumer price
index has increased only from 118.0 to
124.1 (March, 1962) since then, and in
the interim the basic wage was increased
by 12s. in 1961. Since the latter in-
crease in the basic wage the consumer
index has actually fallen by 1.1.
In its last judgment on margins the
Arbitration Commission didn’t particu-
larly stress the importance of cost of
living increases in determining margins,
saying merely that “in arriving at the
awards we have taken into account the
fact that there has been a significant fall
in real value of current margins since
they were fixed”.
The newly found flexibility of approach
certainly makes the pending margins case
an open one. Obviously the unions will
be hoping that the Arbitration Commis-
sion has cast off its cautionary mood of
only a few months back. But the doubt
remains whether economic recovery
would stand another general rise in wages
by the end of the year.


Economics Anonymous
LABOR ABSORPTION PATTERN
STANDSTILL
POSES
A PROBLEM
virtual standstill in the labor
absorption rate in June underlines
the magnitude of the problem of gear-
ing the economy to attain full em-
ployment. Economists such as Sir
Douglas Copland have outlined the
essentials of the task both for the
coming months and for the years
immediately ahead, and they have in-
dicated the broad avenues along which
the economy must venture to achieve
this.
Warning has also been given that
in fertilising economic activity, to
achieve full employment of the rising
labor force, care must be taken not
to strain the balance of payments or
push up costs of production.
These points are generally under-
stood by the community. Understand-
ing does not solve the problem, but it
ensures greater tolerance in the search
for solutions. Hence the present reas-
oned debate on the sort of investment
required and on the methods of
achieving it how far spending
stimulants should be pushed to get
the right climate of expectations for
a sharper rise in industrial investment,
how far the public authorities should
increase their investment now and
plan ahead to sustain it, how to gear
public investment and spending stimu-
lants to fluctuations in private in-
vestment, whether there should be
an overall economic plan and so on.
Such questions are particularly
apposite for public discussion just
now when the Budget, the Govern-
ment’s key instrument for conditioning
the climate for employment, is being
framed.
In accepting its own vital role in
generating employment opportunities
it is to be hoped the Government does
not forget that it can only go so far
in directly creating jobs and that the
vital consideration now is to activate
private employment. Though public
works still offer considerable scope
for absorbing unemployed it should
eschew the course of putting increas-
ing numbers on public authority pay-
rolls as a sort of faute de mieux route
to full employment.
To get this problem in correct
perspective there is much to be
learned from previous patterns of
labor absorption in Australia; for in-
stance over the decade to June 1960,
at which point the labor force of the
country was fully employed. It is
instructive to look at this pattern both
in the broad and in detail as it emerges
from the official figures for employ-
ment.
Between June 1951 and June 1960
numbers employed in Australia exclu-
sive of both primary industry and de-
fence forces increased from 2,670,000
to 3,047,000 or by approximately 14.1
per cent. And it so happens that the
percentage rises in numbers employed
in private industry and in Government
were almost precisely the same, the
actual increases being 279,000 in
private employment and 98,000 in
Government employment or slightly
less than 3 to 1.
Even so some people will think
the proportion of Government jobs is
too high, indicating too heavy a bias
on Government activity and the ex-
penditure and taxation this entails. Be
that as it may, the coincidence of the
percentage rises in employment in the
two sectors of the economy certainly
show that Government maintained a
nice balance between its own and
private enterprise's function as an
employer over the period. All manner
of inferences might be drawn from
that.
But when considering the major
question of where new job opportuni-
ties are to be created in the future, it
is worth remembering that for every
one job created by Government in
the fifties, private enterprise found
nearly three. This is the point to con-
centrate on in looking to future job
creation. Further, one should not
overstress the disproportionate rise in
Government employment vis-a-vis
private employment so far this
year. It is salutary to see Govern-
ment stepping in to provide employ-
ment during a recession.
Leaving aside the major demarca-
tion between jobs in Government and
private enterprise activities, it is pos-
sible through the medium of official
figures to analyse job creation during
the fifties in terms of the various
categories of employment irrespective
of whether they were under the aus-
pices of Government or private en-
terprise. For, in compiling employ-
ment figures for these ten main groups
of industries the Statistician lumps
Government and private employment
together when they are engaged in
the same industry.
Taking the official figures it is pos-
sible to get a perfectly clear picture
of the performance of labor absorp-
tion in the fifties. In fact one can con-
struct an index to give the perform-
ance of individual industries. This is
done by multiplying their percentage
increases in employment between two
selected dates (these are shown in
column 2 of the table) and multiplying
it by the proportion in which the in-
dustries contributed to the employed
labor force in the last year of the
ten year period (the weightings are
given in column 4.)
The resulting figures for the labor
absorption index in column 5 are
approximate. Statisticians will doubt-
less think it worthwhile to try other
bases for weightings, based for ex-
ample on proportionate contributions
to employment averaged over a series
of years. However, this would make
little difference to the general result.
While this exercise bears out
what was already patently evident,
that the major contribution to labor
absorption in the fifties was made by
manufacturing industry, it also con-
firms the impression that we relied
very heavily during the period on
what can best be described as tertiary
industries to absorb the increasing
work forces. Thus a category known
by the statistician as “community and
(Continued on page 47)
LABOR ABSORPTION PATTERN 1950-51 to 1959-60
Labor
Employment Absorption
Industry Change Index
June, 1951- Employment Manufacturing
June 1960 June, 1960 = 100
Col. 1 Col. 2 Col. 3 Col. 4 Col. 2 &
000’s per cent. 000’s Weighting Col. 4
Manufacturing .. .. .. .. +175 +l7 1,188 393 100
Community & Business Services . . .. + 90 +39 323 107 63
Commerce .. .. .. .. .. + 55 +l3 448 150 29
Property & Finance .. .. .. + 39 +45 125 41 28
Transport & Communications .. .. +lB + 5Vz 352 117 9
Miscellaneous Public Authority Work .. +l2 + 9'/2 137 45 6
Amusements, Hotels & Personal Services +1 + Ya 154 52 0.4
Forestry, Fishing & Trapping .. .. 3 —ll 25 8 —1.3
Building & Construction .. .. .. 4 2 213 71 —2.2
Mining & Quarrying .. .. .. .. 6 —lO 50 16 —2.5
All Industry +377 +14.1 3,047 1,000 21.0


seeking
finance?
mnm
n
ESANDA CAN PROVIDE THE MONEY YOU NEED
Hire Purchase
B Motor vehicles
(new or good used)
B Business equipment
B Agricultural plant
B Domestic equipment
instalment Loans tor
property improvement,
or any useful purpose
Developmental Projects
■ Capital equipment
■ Book Debt financing
B Mortgages
B Contracts of Sale
B Leasing
B Factoring
m
ESANDA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
140 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Telephone 63 9261.
313 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telephone 2 3031.
316 Murray Street, Perth.
Telephone 21 5553, 23 2450.
273 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
Telephone 8-4913/4.
1 Criterion Street, Hobart.
Telephone 3-3679.
M.L.C. Building, London Circuit,
Canberra. Telephone J-4040.
Room 209, 2nd Floor, Caltex House,
167 Kent Street, Sydney. Telephone 27-5334, 27-5461.
ELFI
business services” ranks next to
manufacturing as the best labor ab-
sorber. And not surprisingly this is
followed in importance by commerce
and, almost the same figure, “property
and finance”. The latter in fact re-
corded the highest percentage increase
in employment over the ten-year
period and “community and business
services” were not far behind it.
The most surprising thing perhaps
is that between June 1951 and June
1960 the building and constructional
industries reduced their employed
labor force from 216,500 to 212,600
or by 2 per cent, and their contribution
to labor absorption was negative. Yet
at the latter date the building and con-
struction industries were booming. The
only other industries to reduce their
employed labor forces over the period
were forestry, fishing and trapping
from 28,400 to 25,500 and mining
and quarrying, from 56,600 to 50,400.
Also somewhat surprisingly the
figures show that there was practi-
cally no change in numbers employed
in amusement, hotels and personal
services between the two dates. This
group employed 153,400 in June 1951
and 153,600 in June 1961.
An a priori conclusion from the
decline in employment in the three
industries which lost labor over the
period, and the static position in the
fourth, w ? ould be that these industries
don’t hold out much hope for making
substantial, if any, contribution to job
creation in the year ahead, at least
in so far as the pattern of development
remains much the same as during the
fifties.
An exercise which attempts to draw
lessons from the fifties for guidance
in solving future labor absorption
tasks is the more valuable if the future
pattern of economic growth will
follow, even if very roughly, the
course of development in those years.
As a general observation it is difficult
to envisage any great change in the
pattern of development, though ad-
mittedly the economy is bound to
strike out in some new directions
following, say, the discovery of new
resources, the development of new
export markets and the exploitation
of new inventions, techniques and
so on.


TESTRO BROS.
m <$
m
4
m
YOUR MONEY CAN EARN
m
WITH FIRST MORTGAGE SECURITY
Note Under short or long term investment, all
interest is paid quarterly and the first £lOO is payable
on demand.
NATURE OF BUSINESS. Main activity of the
Company is in Home and Industrial Finance, in
association with the world-wide Testro Group of
Companies in London, Paris, Wellington, Tokyo,
Hong Kong, Singapore, Manila, Los Angeles, Bombay.
DIRECTORS. Rex Clifford Testro, Keith Royal
Testro, T. G. Hardwick, Edward Neilson (U.K.),
Pierre Dubouchet (France), George Yeomans (N.Z.).
HOW TO INVEST. Simply obtain prospectus and
application forms by posting the coupon below.
TESTRO BROS. CONSOLIDATED LTD.
Testro House, 222 Queen Street, Melbourne
n
Please send me prospectus and
application form.
NAME
ADDRESS
D. 31
Applications for debentures will proceed only on the
printed form of application attached to prospectus
INVESTMENT
SECTION
BHP's PROFIT DROP NOT
A TRUE REFLECTION OF SHARE VALUE
Qome investors took one trifle jaun-
diced glance at BMP’s profit dip and
sent share prices bumping back quite
smartly on Monday. It may be objected
that weekend reflection might have con-
ferred more circumspection. But it must
also be patent that markets are now in
no mood to conceal disappointment over
the merest lapse in behavior of their
generally favorite son.
Still BHP at around 565., and on a
profit drop too, looks somewhat odd. A
host of buyers could come in. That is.
unless there’s an equally jaundiced view
expressing doubts on the short-term
future of the Australian economy and on
the company’s available overseas markets
as well.
With such a basic product as steel,
earnings will always mirror the economy’s
condition fairly exactly. That fate pre-
cisely happened to BHP in 1961-62. Its
first earnings retreat since 1949 arrived
in a year when the company internally
was particularly happy.
For this last financial year has seen
a record pig iron and steel output, to-
gether with a large accession of capital.
Everything was fitly geared to a vigorous,
if not expansive, local demand.
Such a demand certainiv could not
eventuate in the Australia born of the
November 1960 arrest. To set matters
straight in the near future, it does seem
now that a new drive forward has started
and the steel needs of a healthier motor
industry are pointing the way.
Under a situation of reduced local
demand, BHP is well able to pursue
export markets. The chairman’s 1960-61
report may be recalled—lack of buoyancy
at home led to the seeking of overseas
sales, which gave “sufficient orders to
maintain full production and to avoid any
reduction in our labor force.”
Those export opportunities were not so
easily available throughout last year.
Indeed BHP itself has complained that
they cannot be turned on and off like a
tap, in proportion to domestic require-
ments. More recently, of course, extreme
competition has been heightened in these
foreign markets, since all over the world
steel industries have faced over-capacity
in home terms and been driven to seek
outside trade.
Thus BMP's income was affected by
both internal and external restrictions in
an atmosphere that, for Australia at
least, appears to be passing. The current
year should see advance once more and
directors’ remarks on present trading will
assuredly be awaited with deep interest.
For the record, the 1961-62 figures
must here be set down. Consolidated net
profit dropped back by £566,659, or 3.8
p.c., to £14,570,458, after tax at
£14,926,817, itself £817,116 lower.


more electricity
means
more money
more security
Expansion and progressive development of the Sydney
County Council Electricity Undertaking has played an
important part in the thriving growth pattern of Sydney.
Gilt - Edged S C.C. loans have also supplied many
thousands of private investors, trustees and executors
with a high rate of interest and earning power, with ab-
solutely maximum security.
mn
THE SYDNEY COUNTY COUNCIL 5 f % LOAN
S.C.C. WILL PAY YOU £s'7'6 A YEAR FOR
EVERY £lOO YOU INVEST
Loan 197 is NOW OPEN!
Loan periods are tor 7, ID or 20 years at 5-3/8 p.c. per annum. This is a
gilt-edged security an Authorised Trustee in NSW that gives you a
high interest as well!
Stockholders in Loan No. 51 (£4/10/- maturing August Ist 1962) may
convert now to this higher rate of interest.
Applications may be lodged at any office of the Commonwealth Trading
Bank; Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited; Bank of New South
Wales; The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited; The Rural
Bank of New South Wales; or through a Stockbroker; or at the Council’s
Head Office, Queen Victoria Building, George Street. Sydney ("phone
2 0259).
Loan underwritten by lan Potter and Co., Members of The Stock Exchange
of Melbourne.
Depreciation moved up by £2,376,504 to
£24,377,825.
Taxable profit, as suggested by the pro-
vision, would appear to be about £22.4
m., against the previous year £23.6 m.
The net result brings earning rate from
15.4 to 13.7 p.c. on average capital used.
Shareholders might perhaps sense that
dividend and capital caution will be con-
tinued by directors for a little longer.
Western Australian iron possibilities,
with the Conzinc-Kaiser axis emerging,
make the Australian steel picture more
fluid than for many years.
Tmmediately after this journal’s grouch
A last week on the haze surrounding
cigarette sales comes Rothmans’ peal of
triumph for its 1961-62 results, which
attained both profit and turnover peaks.
The new sales claims particularly put the
ball clearly into British Tobacco’s court
and a clean return must in due course
be expected.
In passing, it can surely be urged that
these continuous asseverations of per-
centage shares of markets don’t furnish a
wholly reliable assessment. The old case
for £.s.d. disclosure still stands.
This is meant in no way to detract
from Rothman’s virile and excellent per-
formance. The full year’s profit has
shown an advance of £30,837 to the
record £1,257,112 after a shaky start in
the first half-year.
Earning rate has naturally retreated on
the much higher capital used, going from
47.7 to 35.7 p.c. This, however, does not
induce much nervousness for the current
year, as the sales procession is still hecti-
cally forward. To allow more investors
to share in the company’s progress,
directors have decided to split the 20s.
shares into 10s. units.
The full accounts will bear later and
more detailed scrutiny. Present interest
can first attach itself to the market exam-
ination conducted by the chairman (Mr
R. A. Irish).
This appears, also with the share that
Rothman's is conquering, to bear out all
the trends of recent years. All king size
and filter brands take some 70 p.c. of
cigarette sales and the affluent society
expresses itself by buying about 80 p.c.
of its demand from the “quality price
class”. Imported cigarettes make no per-
ceptible impression. The less aristocratic
“roll-your-own” and pipe tobaccos suffer
further decline.
Rothmans at this moment claims
“about 50 p.c.” of the whole Australian
cigarette market. Its King Size Filter
attracts the largest sale of any one
brand, “by a big margin.” Volume in
all its makes was lifted by more than 20
p.c. during 1961-62. The final quarter’s
sales produced fresh records consecutively
in April, May and June.


TALK AROUND 'CHANGE
VH/hile Stanhill lives on, even if some-
what precariously, the death knell
is almost nigh, it seems, for its near
namesake, Sunhill Corporation (Austra-
lia) Ltd, also in the development business.
This ill-fated Victorian concern, whose
ss. shares were first listed less than two
years ago, will only be able to pay
unsecured creditors Is. 6d. in the £ in the
event of a wind-up, according to a pre-
liminary survey. However, a final effort
was being made this week to agree to a
scheme of arrangement, which would of
course require the court’s approval.
A ssociation with big and powerful
friends appears to pave the road to
success in the quarrying and concrete
game.
New South Wales observers have often
remarked on the absence of local ready-
mixed concrete operators on the Victor-
ian scene, and now Sydney-based Ready
Mixed Concrete Ltd has formed an
alliance with Reid’s Quarries Ltd of
Melbourne. A new company, to be
jointly owned, will conduct ready-mixed
concrete operations in the Melbourne
metropolitan area.
To finance the new venture, Reid’s
will make a one-for-five issue of ss.
shares to ordinary share and noteholders,
at a premium of 7s. 6d. Any spare
funds were presumably mopped up by
joint ventures with Bitumen and Oil to
establish a hot mix asphalt plant at
Springvale.
As RMC already has a joint company
with Blue Metal Industries for the
marketing of ready-mixed concrete in
the Sydney metropolitan area, this Mel-
bourne move must make the going
tougher for Pioneer Concrete Services
Ltd.
Tt is easy understand why, even with
the ss. shares at their paltry price of
2s. 2d., nobody is in a hurry to get on
the bandwaggon of Australian Motor
Industries, who, one hears, lost a packet
on the sale of Brighton Beach Motors
last year and whose cars haven’t exactly
been selling like hot cakes even recently.
The total sales of Standard and
Triumph cars in June was only 158, a
mere toot compared with Holden’s 6907
and the Falcon’s 2064 (Ford’s aggregate
was 2574).
However, the last hasn't been heard of
AMI yet and recent streamlining opera-
tions and the assembly of the Rambler
could point to better days on a reduc-
tion in capitalisation, which has been
mooted as a possible next step.
nPuRNOVER in industrial shares reached
a very low ebb on the Melbourne
Exchange early last week, in fact the
lowest for the year, but it picked up very
well in due course. However, levels were
well below Sydney and this even goes for
mining shares too. It seems that only in
bonds does Melbourne have the edge on
Sydney these days, as it always has of
course.
A dmirers of Minster Ltd, Victoria-
based carpet manufacturer, had
their faith in the 10s. share as a growth
stock fully restored last week, when the
company revealed a record £663,194
profit for 1961-62, which was treble the
figure for three years earlier.
Moreover, the company’s statement
shows further flights are planned, both on
its own magic carpet and in felt-based
linoleum in a new joint Australian ven-
ture with Thomas Wilter and Co.
(UK), which will hold 51 p.c. of a new
company formed for the purpose.
Minster shares have fluctuated between
655. and 80s. 6d. this year and are still
ss. off the top. The yield at the current
price of 755. is only 2.6 p.c. on the
maintained 20 p.c. dividend, but if
growth comes into fashion again in
markets the shares’ rating could be
improved even on that.
the market is determined to be
" pessimistic, even the best news from
industry is of no avail, as witness the
lifeless response of motor component
shares to the record June motor regis-
trations and the motor trade's voice that
it could sell more motor vehicles this
year than ever.
But surely, as some brokers are con-
vinced, even if their clients are not,
National Consolidated's ss. shares are
cheap at around 265., which is 4s. lower
than they were earlier this year. The
chairman said recently that thanks to
diversification (the group bought the
profitable Murfett Holdings last year and
has many non-motor irons in its fire),
last year would be at least equal to the
best ever for the company. The interim
was maintained for the first six months
and was more than twice covered by
earnings (the full payment for 1960-61
was 20 p.c. covered by earnings of
35.3 p.c.
If any local company is to prosper
from the motor industry’s revival it is
National Consolidated, which provides
the lion's share of the industry’s radia-
tors and bearings and a range of other
accessories. It seems the slower progress
of its paper and plastics interests is
causing investors hesitation.
Tt seems that a last minute rush of
A applications has succeeded in filling
the new issue of TV Victoria Ltd, which
The Bulletin reported last week as
rather hanging fire.
•Shares of Victoria’s six listed milk
distributor companies have been
attracting attention in front of the better
results expected for the year to June, in
which they will have had the benefit of
ten months of the higher distributors’
margins effective since September 1961.
The one to gain most ground in recent
trading is Model Dairy, which increased
its interim from 4 to 5 p.c. earlier this
year (the interims of the five other com-
panies were steady at 5 p.c.). However,
Model paid a total of only 81 p.c. last
year, whereas all the others paid 124
p.c. for the year, so though its ss. shares
are the lowest priced at present, they are
not necessarily the cheapest (the shares
of all six companies have a ss. par
value).
Model managed to earn only 11.1 p.c.
for its 84 p.c. payment last year, while,
in order of superiority, the earnings
cover for the 124 p.c. payments of the
others were: Associated 12.2 p.c., Metro-
politan 17.5, Victorian 16.3, Croft Bank
15.2, and Cranbourne 14.8 p.c.
Associated also had by far the best
net assets cover, with £2 6s. sd. for the
ss. shares, followed by Cranbourne Bs.,
Victorian 7s. 6d., Metropolitan 6s. 10d,,
Model ss. lid. and Croft Bank ss. 9d.
Strange as it may seem, the market
rates Metropolitan the best of these com-
panies, giving it a yield basis of 4.4 p.c.,
maybe because it is the biggest. Next best
favored is Victorian, with a yield of 4.6
p.c., ahead of Associated, whose 5 p.c.
yield looks the most attractive both on
an earnings and net assets basis.
Possibly because it increased its
interim payment and is the lowest priced,
Model has had the sharpest recent rise
in the market, but at least compared with
yields of 6.4 p.c. on both Cranbourne
and Croft Bank, its yield of 5.7 p.c.
looks rather high.
T/Tctorian glass manufacturer Oliver-
" Davey, which has the contract for
the Southern Cross Hotel, to open in
Melbourne late next month, is said to
have as much business as it can handle
at the moment. With the better prospect
ahead for building in Victoria, the shares
have been in demand recently. The ss.
shares yield a good 7.5 p.c. at the current
price of 6s. 6d. and look like going
higher.


m
FINANCE CORPORATION
of AUSTRALIA LIMITED
OFFERS A SPECIALISED FINANCE SERVICE
We have finance available for : —
LENDING
▼
Developmental Projects
v
Capital Equipment
v
Commercial and Industrial Properties
v
Business Expansion
DISCOUNTING AND PURCHASE
Mortgages
v
Contracts of Sale
T
Leases
v
Hire Purchase Contracts
FINANCE CORPORATION OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
ADELAIDE
F.C.A. Building,
15 Franklin Street
Telephone 51 3781
MELBOURNE
Union House,
SI Queen Street,
Telephone 61 3051
SYDNEY
Anchor House,
Cnr. George and
Bridge Streets,
Telephone 27 7003
BRISBANE
Mercantile House,
262 Adelaide St.,
Telephone 31 2861
PERTH
M.L.C. Building,
171-177 St. George's Tee,
Telephone 21 6892
GF2
TALK AROUND 'CHANGE-Cont.
Oorg-Warner (Australia) Ltd is ap-
proaching the top of the hill, and
is steering along the road to a resump-
tion of regular preference and ordinary
dividends.
After several losses, the company
could not pay preference dividends from
1953 until last year. It returned to profit-
able operations in 1959, and after a
satisfactory profit for the half-year to
June 1962, has paid off preference
arrears up to December 1959.
If a transmission engineer can trade
satisfactorily through the motor trials of
the last 20 months, the company machine
is sound.
But now the company has to handle
the normal tax load. Accumulated losses
were wiped out by last balance date,
December 31, 1961.
IyTELBOURNE printer and manufacturing
stationer Pendence Ltd earned 6
p.c. less in the year to June 30, 1962,
despite higher sales. Earning rate was
honed to 11.6 p.c. but the usual 10 p.c.
dividend was distributed for the fifth
successive year.
Conditions in the industry are appar-
ently more competitive than the market
believed in its more optimistic moods of
a couple of years ago.
optimistically hatched plans for
rehabilitation of Chevron Sydney
stagger from meeting to meeting and
court to court. Shareholders, and
others, who have long forgone just
financial recompense, may be forgiven a
sense of bemusement. They are not
even allowed this. Instead they will be
asked to find a further £1.4 m.
There does seem a bare hope that the
additional 188 bedrooms described as
the “intermediate stage” could make the
existing hotel facilities completely viable
and, as an end result, profitable. Yet
directors should strive better than they
have done to present a perfectly de-
tached examination of the worth and
validity of the proposals.
After all, if things go well from the
moment of court approval onwards, and
the necessary funds come to hand, there
remains about four years to create a
fresh public image. For in 1966, some
£2.1 m. of public debentures fall due
for redemption and failure to refinance
or meet some of these would start the
same old rake’s progress again.
Naturally shareholders of the other
Stanhill companies supported the salvage
hopes, for they exercise effective control
and must attempt salvation for them-
selves as well. Despite Mr Korman’s
finely judged £60,000, it still looks as
if raising the necessary could not be
particularly easy. Disclosed results at
Chevron for the nine months to April
did not convey too much appeal.


BOATS ARE BECOMING
BIG BUSINESS NOW
By J. C. HORSFALL
/Considering Australia has more than
eleven thousand miles of coastline
and most of the inhabitants live within
coo-ee of the sea, it is little wonder that
boating in all its various guises is a
thriving national pastime as well as a
business.
Of course, the days of locally owned
inter-State passenger vessels are virtually
over and you have to be going to Tas-
mania to find one these days. Sad to say,
most of the big ships sailing in Austra-
lian waters are either freighters or over-
seas liners.
Nor can it be said that the fishing
industry has been very helpful in boosting
the boat business in recent years, for
there seem to be fewer fishing vessels
than ever. Hence the outrageous prices
for fish, of which we imported more
than £lO million worth in various shapes
and tins last year. This seems a very big
bill to have to pay when our own seas
are teeming with the creatures and our
exports are threatened in certain direc-
tions.
But obviously from the galaxy of small
•craft on display at the National Boat
Show in Melbourne business in little
boats is very buoyant and not even the
recession has been able to stop the
remarkable rise in its fortunes in the last
two years.
Whole accent
on speed
A new craze for sea adventure seems to
-*"*■ have swept both young and old be-
cause, towering above the streamlined
outboard models and yachts at the Ex-
hibition, many safer and more stately
cruisers caught the eye.
But the whole accent was on speed,
the new spirit being epitomised as well
as anything else by Gretel’s challenge
for the America’s Cup, because Gretel
was very prominent in an art competi-
tion run in conjunction with the Show.
At all events it seems that most of the
boats there were built for pleasure and
not for moneymaking purposes.
The cold statistics bear out the boom
going on. Last year Australia built 9,006
marine petrol engines as against only
5,174 in 1960 and as few as 1,780 in
1957. These numbers are in marked
contrast to those for marine diesel en-
gines (for bigger vessels) of which 109
were built last year compared with 193
the year before and 83 in 1957.
Figures for actual boats under five
tons are not so up-to-date, but there has
been a big increase in these, too. Num-
bers of fibre glass boats made here rose
from 1,387 in 1958 to 2,022 in 1959
and then dipped to 1,887 in 1960 (no
figures for 1961), while boats under five
tons built from other materials increased
from 2,307 made in 1958 to 3,111 in
1959 and 3,876 in 1960 (again no
figures yet for 1961).
Plastics
to the fore
I>ut this isn’t the end of the business by
any means. It takes a full tour of the
stands around the Exhibition to see the
ramifications. To start with, you can
have your boat made in a number of
different materials. Wood seems to be
losing out fast in this field to plastics
such as fibre glass, while aluminium is
also coming into the picture quite vigo-
rously.
Then passing from the actual hulls
and engines one finds a multitude of
industries catering for them. Again
plastics seemed to be very much to the
fore in accessories, and so, of course,
did textiles in general in their contribu-
tion to sails and so forth. Makers of
trailers and hoists also seemed to be in
it, though one exhibit made the point
that the chassis of any old crock could
carry your boat down to the water.
Apart from industries such as rope
making, liquified petroleum gas, petrol,
domestic appliances (for the cabin
cruisers), weather garments, aqualung
suitings, skis, belting etc, apparently to
go on the water these days it is handy
to have a little insurance up your sleeve.
So the man from . . . was on hand.
Further, one has to ponder the problem
of where to go once out of the water,
and to cater for this it is de rigour these
days to have a caravan, preferably of
luxury dimensions, because there were
few other types to be seen. So the motor
industry comes into the business, too,
even if somewhat obliquely, for tent
sellers were also in evidence.
SLUMP IN
OIL SEARCH
11/'est Australian Petroleum pro-
vided the only glimmer of interest
in oil search last week when it reported
a show of fluorescence in its Jurien No.
1 well in WA, but this was shortlived as
a drill stem test recovered only drilling
mud.
It would have been quite remarkable
had Jurien revealed an oil reservoir as
shallow as 572 ft at which the test was
made. However, even a smell of oil is
sufficient to spark off a little buying of
an oil share, though in this case the
enthusiasm of buyers waned very rapidly.
Wapet is drilling ahead in this well
and is also preparing to resume drilling
at Babrongan No. 1 in the Fitzroy Basin,
where the superstructure collapsed
recently and had to be taken all the way
to Perth to be rebuilt.
Elsewhere the oil search scene has
been uneventful, though several wells are
drilling ahead, albeit without any scent
of oil.
Santos was still fishing to recover a
stuck drill pipe in its combined well with
Delhi at Dullingari in SA; and Salt No.
1 in the same State, where it is drilling
a hole in partnership with Beach Petro-
leum, has got down to about 8000 ft
without tangible result.
Since its earlier discovery of oil traces
in Anglesea No. 1, which it is drilling
with Planet, Oil Development has struck
nothing of further interest though now
down to 6242 ft, progress being at the
rate of just under 5000 ft a week.
There has been no news of the well
being drilled by Phillips west of Moonie,
where No. 5 well was spudded in during
the week.
The latter news was taken for granted
by the market which wants to see far
more active drilling in the Surat Basin.
In fact, without this it is difficult to see
how interest in oil search is to be sus-
tained during the next few months,
unless, of course, the Budget comes up
with a substantial increase in oil search
subsidies or some other sign that the
Government is grasping the nettle of
opportunity pointed by the Moonie dis-
coveries.
True, there are some holes planned for
areas adjacent to the Surat Basin. For
instance the AAO group is going to
drill five wells in its territory north-west
of Moonie in the next three months, but
these are mainly in areas where base-
ment is shallow and gas has already been
located in commercial quantities.
The group’s only drilling activity at
the moment is Marina No. 1, north-west
of Cooktown, for Cabot-Blueberry.


WHAT’S THE FUTURE OF KATHLEEN
INVESTMENTS-A TAKEOVER?
With metal markets and mining com-
panies in a continual state of flux,
one wonders what is the future of
Kathleen Investments (Australia) Ltd.
The company was formed in 1953 to
take over Australasian Oil Exploration
Ltd's 35 p.c. interest in Mary Kathleen
Uranium Ltd. The Rio Tinto Mining
Co. of Australia Ltd held the majority
of shares (51 p.c.) and the public and
the original prospectors 14 p.c.
AOE became a subsidiary ol Kath-
leen Investments, and this company has
become the vehicle for other metal take-
overs in the last year. But first, a
resume of the uranium interests.
MKU signed a contract in March
1956 to supply 4500 short tons of
uranium oxide to the UK Atomic Energy
Authority. The contract had a gross
value of approximately £4O million. In
the four years to June 30, 1962, that
MKU has shipped the ore. it has earned
£16,721,000 net profit, and paid divi-
dends amounting in total to 19s. 3d. per
MKU 2s. 6d. share.
By December last, five-ninths of the
contract tonnage had been shipped, and
the company expected to fulfil the UK
contract by the end of 1963. As the UK
has huge stockpiles, MKU is seeking
other markets for uranium closely
watching the establishment of nuclear
power stations in India and Japan
but directors stress that future profits
cannot be on the same scale as in the
past.
Repayment of long term loans
T>y the time the UK contract is ter-
minated, MKU's long term loans of
£2.9 million will have been repaid.
Preference capital of £1.7 million, issued
to Rio Tinto, must be repaid by 1967.
For these purposes, special reserves and
a capital redemption reserve fund have
been built up by annual profit appropria-
tions. After dividends for the June 1962
half-year are paid, undistributed profits
will approximate £3.3 million.
In the absence of uranium exploration
last year, no addition was made to ore
reserves, but at December 31, 1961,
indicated and possible reserves were
sufficient to feed the mill for almost nine
years at the 1961 production rate.
If the Mary Kathleen Uranium mine
ceased working on termination of the
UK contract and experts predict no
major revival in demand before the ’7os
MKU would be left with a township
and a mine fully equipped with modern
machinery, includmg a revolutionary new
electronic sorting plant.
MKU has been searching for alter-
native mining income, and has examined
copper and silver prospects in the
neighborhood of Mary Kathleen (which
is only 35 miles from Mt Isa) and at
Cloncurry.
To date the income of Kathleen In-
vestments has been solely derived from
MKU dividends. However, . AOE in-
creased its profit earned in investments
and mining from £5693 in 1960 to
£27,573 in 1961. AOE had acquired a
controlling interest (52 p.c.) in Coffs
Harbour Rutile NL on the open market,
and from this and other projects in the
planning stage, expects to earn sufficient
profits to remit a dividend to its parent
in the current year.
Beach sands mining has been very
much in the doldrums for some time, so
that Kathleen Investments, through AOE,
was able to secure the Coffs Harbour
interest very cheaply, and then negotiate
(jointly with National Minerals Ptv Ltd
a subsidiary of Peko-Wallsend Invest-
ment Ltd) for a contract to supply
30,000 tons of rutile per annum for five
years to E. I. Du Pont de Nemours of
USA.
The contract is said to have an initial
value of £4.5 million, and if an option
to increase supplies to 50,000 tons a
year is exercised, could bring in a
further £3 million. The deposits are at
Red Head and the Stockton-Nelsons Bay
area, and delivery will be made through
the port of Newcastle, with a first ship-
ment of 10,000 tons next October.
As the usage of titanium in America
is expected to double by 1965, Du Pont
could well exercise its option for a larger
supply.
A new company Rutile and Zircon
Mines (Newcastle) Pty Ltd has been
formed for this venture. Its output will
exceed 36,000 tons of rutile and 23,000
tons of zircon a year, so that there will
immediately be excess supplies of rutile
above the Du Pont contract. There is
alleged to be a ready market for the
zircon.
The known reserves of the leases held
by the operating company total 500,000
tons of mineral.
Kathleen Investments, holding 660,267
ss. Coffs Harbour shares, now desire to
buy the remainder ff th_ £317,625
issued capital, and have offered two ss.
shares for every three Coffs ss. shares.
According to information revealed to
shareholders at the extraordinary general
meeting of Coffs Harbour Rutile, the
operating company could produce an
annual profit of up to £600,000. The
contract price for the rutile is £3O per
ton, which will cost £l7 15s. per ton
to extract, and the market price for
zircon is £l2 per ton, which will cost
£5 per ton to extract, on estimate.
Zircon and Rutile NL will return all
profits in dividends on a 50/50 basis to
its two sponsors.
Is offer inadequate?
VlTith these factors in mind, certain
shareholders of Coffs Harbour con-
sider the Kathleen Investments offer is
inadequate.
A similar takeover technique has been
used in regard to Cable (1956) Ltd,
which has beach-sand bases in Western
Australia, and an ilmenite treating plant
at Bunburv. After AOE had bought up
about 200,000 of the 3,000,000 2s.
shares on the open market, its parent
Kathleen Investments is now offering one
ss. share for every 10 Cable 2s. shares.
Cable is hardly on a profitable basis at
the present time but Kathleen Invest-
ments obviously thinks it has prospects.
In view of the present alignment of
interests in the mining world, a take-
over of Kathleen Investments by MKU,
or a move by Rio Tinto (now merging
with Consolidated Zinc) to embrace its
distant offspring, is not beyond the
realms of possibility.
The ss. shares seem moderately priced
at 18s. 6d., compared with peak prices in
previous years. With such powerful rela-
tions, Kathleen Investments is not likely
to go into a rapid decline.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARIES £’ooo
Year to December 31 1959 1960 1961
Consolidated accounts
Current assets 150 59 59
Less current liabilities 13 17 48
Working capital 137 42 11
Fixed assets 147 125
Investments 742 836 905
Total capital 1026 1003 1013
Represented by
minority interests .... 18 3 3
Ordinary capital 710 719 719
Reserves 298 281 296
1026 1003 1018
Parent only
Net profit 265 446 793
Dividends 260 451 768
Div. per ss. share .... 1/9 3/1 5/4
High price 30/3 31,6 21/S
Low price 12/6 17/- 16/6


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
SOUTHERN MOTORS HOLDINGS LTD
MARKET LOOKING FOR BONUS
Qtrange developments amongst its
Sydney counterparts stimulated a
little more interest in the Melbourne
Holden dealer. Southern Motors (Hold-
ings) Ltd than is warranted by its under-
standably poor performance in the year
to April 30.
As motor traders were first victims of
the notorious "squeeze’’ instituted by
the Federal Government in November
1960, Southern Motors had to contend
with the most difficult trading conditions
since it came on the lists in 1955.
A glance at the motor vehicle regis-
trations over the last two years gives
the story of the manufacturers’ and dis-
tributors’ plight. In mid-November 1960
sales tax on motor vehicles was raised
from 30 p.c. to the unusually high rate
of 40 p.c. Three months later it was
revised to 30 p.c., and in early Febru-
ary 1962 sales tax was cut to 224 p.c.
for passenger vehicles, and 124 p.c. on
commercial vehicles.
Australian Registration of New Motor Vehicles,
excluding Motor Cycles.
1960-61 1961-62
July 26.003 17,371
August' 28,718 20.020
September 28.274 19.525
October 29,771 22,210
November 31.891 22,796
December 22,386 20.550
January .. 16,260 19,534
February 16,995 22,228
March ~ 23,670 26,289
April 18,887 22.093
May .. . . 21,083 27,373
June 18,373 28,058
The automotive industry contends that
the apparent recovery since February
last has been boosted by artificial and
short-term factors. For instance, many
of the new car buyers in March would
be those persons who delayed a pur-
chase whiie sales tax was abnormally
high. This pent-up demand would soon
be satisfied.
The motor industry also points to the
tendency for families to buy the popu-
lar “baby” car for a second car rather
than a larger used model. Discounting
of vehicles by retailers, to clear excessive
stocks, often before the announcement
of a new model, is also bolstering the
statistics for new-car registrations. (A
new model Holden is expected in August,
and a new' Falcon shortly after.)
The unusually large number of new
models is contributing to the glut in the
used-car market, making the purchase of
a new car more costly.
The motormen take a pessimistic view
of the economy based on Common Mar-
ket considerations, the drop in invest-
ment confidence in Australia, and the
continued high level of unemployment.
They refer (in the June Commonwealth
Automotive Review) to the sluggishness
in sales of heavy commercial vehicles,
despite the current low sales tax, and
deduce that business interests are not
replacing their transportation equipment
to any significant extent.
This argument, of course, is equally
valid for sedan cars as for trucks, as
since November 1960, many companies
have replaced their car fleets less rapid-
ly and with less expensive models.
Southern Motors, after a run of ex-
cellent profits, turned in a sharply re-
duced result of £49.242 (1961 £107,681)
after providing £5505 (£3266) for de-
preciation and £32.346 (£72,078) for
taxation. Earning rate of 21.4 p.c. on
unchanged capital gave scant cover for
the usual 174 p.c. dividend.
The chief subsidiary, Southern Motors
Pty Ttd, is one of Melbourne’s four dis-
tributors of Holden vehicles, and also
has the Pontiac franchise. It has two
repair and service depots and three
suburban used car lots. A subsidiary,
Blackwood Investments Pty Ltd, handles
the hire purchase transactions of the
group.
Additions to the North Melbourne
premises have provided extra servicing
facilities and showroom area, and have
eliminated the expense of renting other
premises during the building period. In
the last two years investment in freehold
property has increased by approximately
£200,000.
The company has made no capital
change since the public was invited to
subscribe to shares at par in May 1955.
Reserves and unappropriated profit total
£535,144, compared with paid capital of
£230,000, all in ordinary shares. A bonus
was under consideration in June 1960,
but in April 1961, directors decided not
to proceed.
The chairman (Mr T. A. Scheps) said
he was confident that the company’s
volume of sales and profitability would
be higher in the current year than for
1961-62.
The new model Holden should ensure
buoyant turnover and cut the selling costs
w'hich were so abnormally high in the
last year under review.
At current price of about 15s. 3d. for
the ss. shares, returning 5.7 p.c., the
market must still be hankering after
that afore-mentioned bonus.
Accounts Summaries £OOO
1957 1953 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets . 421 464 484 650 575 456
Less current
liabilities .. .. 208 205 212 297 227 233
Working capital . . 213 259 272 353 348 223
Fix;d assets .. ... 210 275 317 333 417 551
Total capital .. .. 423 534 589 686 765 774
Represented by:
Ordinary capital . . 230 230 230 230 230 230
Reserves 183 304 359 456 535 544
423 534 589 686 765 774
Depreciation .... 2 4 4 3 3 6
Taxation 70 69 63 84 72 32
Net Earnings .. . 108 124 101 137 108 49
Ord divs. .... 40 40 40 40 40 40
Surplus 68 64 61 97 68 9
Earn, rate p.c. . 47.0 53.9 43.6 59.7 46.8 21.4
Div. rate p.c. .. 17V 2 17% 17% 17% 17% 17%
Div. yield (a) . . 6.6 6.5 6.5 4.2 5.7
High price (b) . 13/6 13/3 14.6 15, 821 6 16/-
Low price (b) .. .. 9/9 10/- 11/8 11/8 12/- 13/6
(a) On last sale .July (month accounts presented).
(b) Preceding calendar year.
BATTLE OF
THE GIANTS
TThe giant retailers have joined in
A their annual bout of turnover osten-
tation. G. J. Coles last week claimed
a profit of £3.33 million in a pre-
liminary statement on trading for the
year to June 30. The previous year
it was more like £2.5 million, earned
on reported sales of £92 million. If
that profit to sales *atio was main-
tained the experts calculated that
1961-62 sales exceeded £l2O million.
Woolworths’ profit for the year to
January 25 was £1.9 million, earned
on capital of £13.7 million w'hich
compares with Coles’ capital of £17.0
million. However, Woolworths makes
another capital move next month w'ith
a one-for-five par issue. Woolworths’
directors are generally more coy about
their turnover than Coles (obviously
because it’s smaller) but at the annual
meeting in April Woolworths claimed
its sales were then at the rate of £ 100
million a year.
Myers’ financial year ends on July
31, so it will be interesting to see
what they can pull out of the bag.
Last year profit topped £3 million
earned on capital of £.2.9 million,
and sales exceeded £BB million. One
would expect their profit margin to
be higher than that of the chain stores.


A. L. NEVITT. DRAPER & CO.
A. L NEVITI. A C DRAPER.
N W C DRAPER
(Members ol Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building.
297 Queen Street. Brisbane.
Telegraphic Add Tess: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2763 P.O BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
2 Denham Street. Phone 6089
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
Delfin House,
16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines)
Prudential Building,
150 Queen St., Melbourne
67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables:
“Rosdaie”. Sydney, Melbourne
or Wollongong.
LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Sixth Floor,
56 Hunter Street, Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Telephone: BW 5721.
Telegrams and Cables:
“LAGRAM,” Sydney.
WANTED TO BUY
FOR CASH
Shares, listed or unlisted,
Forestry Bonds, etc.
J. W. GRANT & CO.
549 St. Kilda Road.
Melbourne
Telephone: 51-6243
Est. 1939
HELP
LEGACY
all the year round.
Donations: 169 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney. BM 2001. *
BENNETT AND WOOD LTD
CLEAR ROAD AHEAD NOW
Judging by profit performance in recent
years the transfer of warehousing
and administration from the congested
city area to the Sydney suburb of
Zetland, was long overdue for Bennett
and Wood Ltd. Describing itself as the
oldest and largest motor accessory
organisation in NSW, the company has
been closely associated with the trans-
port industry since 1882, the hey-day
for penny-farthing bicycles.
Parking difficulties and loading docks
bottlenecks were throttling the business
of warehousing the 90,000 different pro-
ducts, from split pins to car bodies, at
the Pitt-Bathurst Street building and the
two buildings in Wentworth Avenue,
city. Moreover, multiple handling was
involved.
The move to a new building, specially
designed, and covering 108,000 square
feet on 3-5/8 acres of land at Zetland,
should produce substantial economies
immediately, but in the last financial
year to February 28 £12,625 direct costs
associated with moving, were written
off against general reserve. Directors re-
ported that a greater volume of turn-
over was being handled by mechanisa-
tion with 120 fewer employees. (The
saving in personnel became “fully effec-
tive” in March 1962).
Sale of the city freehold in the latest
term involved a loss of £3,378, which
was also written off to general reserve.
Sale of a leasehold property produced
a profit of £7,082, and £2,740 provided
in previous years and no longer required,
was written back. The actual trading re-
sult was a loss of £81,505, compared
with the 1961 profit of £37,696.
No tax provision was necessary, (1961
£24,050), and the depreciation charge
rose from £20,053 to £27,982.
The company achieved listing on
Sydney Exchange in 1955 when existing
shareholders made available 100,000
10s. stock units at a price of 25/6. In
the three preceding years the company
was reported as producing an average
profit of £137,000, and paid dividends
of 25 p.c., 30 p.c., and 42J p.c.
On identical capital, the company has
made almost yearly reductions in divi-
dend from 17J p.c. in 1956 to 10 p.c. in
1959 and 1960, 8 p.c., in 1961 and cur-
rently nil.
The company assumed responsibility
for its own hire purchase accounts dur-
ing 1960-61, after excessive bad debts
were incurred by an outside finance
house. To finance this operation, the
company is accepting deposit funds.
Amongst long term liabilities is £245,-
500 mortgage advance from an insur-
ance company on the new head office
building:
1960 1961 1962
£ £ £
Paid capital 562,635 562,636 562.636
Reserves 1,099,700 1,092,385 1,003,619
Long term liabilities 274.050 326,610
Overdraft 140,059 390,763 273,473
Creditors, etc. 285,243 513,402 406,883
Short term
deposits 6,700 141,150
Tax provision 34,813 34,864 24,542
Pinal div. 28.132 16,879
£2.150,583 2,891.679 2,738,913
Freeholds 683,442 910,898 825,533
Plant 94,375 118,877 202,708
Investments 25,000
Stocks 767,348 1,054,430 984,901
H.P. Debtors 46,523 147.211 123,887
Debtors 557,452 658,838 575,213
Cash, etc. 1,443 1,425 1,671
£2,150,583 2,891,679 2,738,913
New equipment at head office and
new branches increased fixed assets by
£83,831 net of the depreciation provi-
sion.
Since the close of the year the Went-
worth Avenue property has been sold
for £BO,OOO cash, so that this and other
property sales to be made will finance
the acquisition of more suitable premises
at Tamworth, Newcastle, Goulburn and
Wagga.
Turnover in 1961-62 was 6.6 p.c.
down on 1961, but directors declare that
for the first quarter to May 31, 1962
sales are up 10 p.c. on the correspond-
ing period of 1961 and 4.5 p.c. on
1960.
Balance date is being changed to
June 30, so that the next balance sheet
for the 16 months to June 30, 1963
will be available in September 1963. The
usual half-yearly statement will be made
for the six months to August 1962 and
for the year to February next. If cur-
rent trading is maintained an interim
dividend will be considered in Decem-
ber and again in June 1963, and a final
dividend for the four months ending
June 1963, payable in September or
October next year.
The company has now shaken down
in its new premises, and is well organised
to cope with a revival of trade. A divi-
dend should be well within the range of
possibility this year. Funds are available
to implement current expansive plans,
so that shareholders who have not been
called upon for 35 years or so, will not
be asked to do so now.
Investors’ confidence has returned,
and the 10s. shares, backed by 275. lOd.
worth of tangible assets, have picked up
a couple of shillings in the past two
weeks, and now stand at around 14s.
This seems to include a fair element of
speculation on a possible takeover or
return of capital. The price is hardly
justified on immediate income prospects.


STOCK OPTIONS
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD,
11th Floor, Pearl Assurance Building
151 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
Phone 67-8011
BRANCH OFFICES
Sydney: 383 George Street, 29-7865
Adelaide: 61 Gawler Place, 8-7407
Brisbane: 334 Queen Street. 31-1621
Canberra: 8.M.1. Alinga St., 4-3334
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
All Offices: “Options”
Write or Phone for Free Brochure
and Current Price Schedule.
FOR CALL OPTIONS
CALL STOCK OPTIONS
Speculator's Diary
T ast Wednesday afternoon I managed
to sneak into the Stawell Hall
in Macquarie Street for the CSR’s
annual meeting. It was quite a large
gathering with the Chairman, Mr J. W.
Dunlop, telling a much more cheery
story than a year ago. In fact, once or
twice Mr Dunlop let slip snatches of
what sounded dangerously like humor.
However, might I make one suggestion
to the Board of Directors about next
year’s annual meeting? That is, that
they hire a small band for the occasion.
I can just hear those with rimless
spectacles or furry shoulders joining in
the singing of,
“When my sugar walks down the
street,
All the little birds go tweet, tweet,
tweet.”
And, of course, a band would be in-
dispensable for leading off with “For
he’s a jolly good fellow” when Sir
Edward Knox is again re-elected to the
board. Or should it be,
“Roses are red, violets are blue,
Sugar is sweet, and so are you.”
When you think about it, bands have
endless possibilities at annual meetings.
The important thing about the CSR
meeting was that not only did Mr Dunlop
predict record sugar sales but he was
also able to report a worthwhile recovery
in the building materials and chemical
industries. A few more reports like that
should soon give the lie to the critics
who, despite the evidence to the
contrary, still maintain that the economy
is not recovering quickly enough. I am
becoming firmly convinced that the
economy is really much healthier than
we think. G. J. Coles’ report also
supported this viewpoint last week
while ACI and BHP both tended
to disprove it. But you’ll notice in
the case of both ACI and BHP
that the increases in the depreciation
more than offset the falls in net profit.
Not bad efforts, particularly when you
think how the recession almost brought
John Lysaght to its knees. Now, how-
ever, all these leaders are saying that
they are doing very much better again.
In John Lysaght’s case, I hear the
recovery is really marked, thanks to the
big increases in car and appliance sales.
So I bought 100 shares, purely for the
short term in the hope that the interim
report will be good and that the dividend
rate will finally reach the promised 10
p.c.
While moving in this high society, I
also bought some Burns, Philp. Poor
old Burns, Philp is being neglected again
despite the fact the pens at No. 7 Bridge
Street must nearly have finished their
mammoth task of totting up a full list
of assets and liabilities for the first time.
Initial thoughts about these consolidated
accounts sent the share price up to £6
a couple of months ago. Lately it has
been back around £5 again. If the
rumors about the extent of the assets are
at all true, then the shares are going
to be worth more than £5. You wouldn’t
think so, though, if you could see some
of the assets I came across last month in
North Queensland. One or two of the
hotels looked more like liabilities than
assets while Head Office could easily
have forgotten about the corrugated iron
store that bears its name in Normanton,
on the Gulf of Carpentaria.
These purchases of two high-priced
leaders hardly fitted in with my in-
tention of looking for more low-priced
recovery stocks. Instead I ended up
selling one of my holdings in that
category Anderson Meat. The price
had been creeping up slowly for the last
couple of weeks and when it reached
16/- on Friday I sold. I made a good
profit of £67 on what was nothing more
than an ignorant punt on a share that
looked far too cheap at 12s. in March.
I realise there could be a takeover in
the wind but it’s best not to be too
greedy —as I easily could have been
with Peter Lloyd if I hadn’t sold when
I did.
Greed, however, hasn’t stopped me
hopefully offering another 100 of my
Beau Mondes on the Sydney market at
425. You never know your luck, but I
notice some other shareholder is pre-
pared to give his Beau Mondes away at
375. 6d. in Melbourne.
Meanwhile, Auto, and General Finance
made a sudden spurt to 275., perhaps
because the annual report is due very
soon. Anyway, I wouldn’t sell before
that annual report; in fact I’d really like
to hold on until the notes convert in 18
months, but doubtless my patience will
run out well before then.
This meant I still had to find £177
before I could satisfy an urge to buy
some more Malleys. So I decided to
sacrifice my 800 Discount Facilities at
ss. 7d. even though it meant losing £24.
The week’s business was;
BOUGHT
100 John Lysaght at 64/- £325
100 Burns, Philp at 102/- .... £5lB
SOLD
400 Anderson Meat at 16/- .... £313
800 Discount Facilities at 5/7 .... £215
This left me with £3B and these
shares:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
600 O’Donnell Griffin 28/8/61 13/6 17/9
1,600 United Motels 20/11/61 3/9 4/3
200 Beau Monde 8/12/61 25/- 35/-
400 Auto and General
Finance 8/2/62 19/9 27/-
500 Mauri Bros. 18/2/62 22/9 23/3
890 Goodwins 21/3/82 5/9 6/3
500 Ready Mixed 6/4/62 17/9 17/3
75 MLC 27/4/62 130/- 135/-
200 Malleys 3/5/62 20/3 21/9
500 Merica 10/5/62 7/- 7/6
500 Swan Brewery 17/5/62 19/6 19/6
1,000 Hanimex 23/5/62 4/11 6/1
300 National Consol. 30/5/62 26/1 26/-
300 Marcus Clark notes 22/6/62 27/6 29/6
200 Barrett Burston 28/6/62 21/- 23/-
100 James Hardie 29/6/62 98/- 102/-
100 John Lysaght 18/7/62 64/- 65/-
100 Burns, Philp 10/7/62 102/- 102/-
NCR DISCARDS SYMBOL
AFTER 78 YEARS
traditional gear-wheel of the
A National Cash Register Company—
a trade mark known throughout the
world —is being replaced by something
more symbolic of the company’s present
day activities. The new symbol will
simply show the company’s initials —
NCR —in boxed lettering.
The managing director for Australia,
Mr W. D. Stone, announcing the change,
said that the gear-wheel had been sym-
bolic of a mechanical era, but NCR was
now beyond the day when the name of
“National” should be synonymous with
the words “cash register”.
The National Cash Register Company
was founded by Mr John H. Patterson
in 1884 and four years later the first
National Cash Register was sold in Aus-
tralia. In September, 1907, the Aus-
tralian NCR organisation was in-
corporated in NSW with approximately
50 people on its payroll. Today, NCR
Australia employs 1300 people.
In electronics, such developments as
CRAM—Card Random Access Memory
—have made NCR a leader in the elec-
tronic data processing field. CRAM,
developed for the NCR 315 computer,
stores more than 5 million characters of
information on plastic cards.
Other EDP systems, such as the versa-
tile NCR 310 and NCR 390 computers,
are helping to bring electronics within
the reach of businesses of all kinds.


All the
family
will love
I
/.
only
Ererybody's
INVEST NOW
m
mn
*ae
£1,000,000
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
&§
6-10 YEARS
8% 5 YEARS
7 Yi% 4 YEARS
7% 3 YEARS
6 V-f/c 2 YEARS
Applications must be lodged on the
form attached to the prospectus.
£1,000,000
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE NOTES
r?A.
12 MONTHS
5% 6 MONTHS
4% 3 MONTHS
3Ms % AT CALL
Applications must be made on the
form attached to the prospectus and
acknowledgement will be a Regis-
tered Redeemable Unsecured Note.
Trustee for the Debenture and Note
Holders: Burns Philp Trust Co. Ltd.
Bankers:
National Bank of Australasia Limited
WALTONS
'Hw
CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
HOW TO INVEST
Obtain your prospectus from
and lodge applications with:
• Any Stockbroker.
• Any branch of the National Bank
of Australasia Limited.
• Any office of Burns Pliilp Trust
Co. Ltd.
• Any store or office of Waltons
Limited and Treadways Ltd.
• Waltons Credit Corporation Ltd.,
Box 3875, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
ONE TO BUY
rTHE report that Australian motor body
A production is now at higher levels
than the 1960 peak, draws investment
attention to the automotive components
maker, National Consolidated Ltd.
This company has three subsidiary
groups servicing the motor industry. The
original National group is Melbourne-
based, and supplies initial equipment
and automotive radiators. Besides Aus-
tralian plants, there is one in New
Zealand. The Muller group (Sydney-
based) was bought out in 1959, so that
National Consolidated now supplies 90
p.c. of the radiators for new cars and for
replacements.
Muller’s manufacturing activities are
concentrated at Kingsgrove, NSW, where
it also makes heat transfer equipment
for the heating, air-conditioning and
refrigeration industries. HTC Pty Ltd
was acquired in November 1960 and
now operates as part of this group.
The Bearing Service Group was
acquired in September 1959. It supplies
industrial and automotive anti-friction
bearings and associated equipment to the
Australian original equipment and
replacement market. It owns 40 p.c. of
Duncan Industries Ltd, which distributes
automobile parts in Adelaide, and all of
Charles Weston (Aust.) Pty Ltd, which
makes oil seals in Sydney.
National Consolidated diversified in
1958 by buying the Perry group of com-
panies, which make builders’ hardware
and metal windows.
Eyelets Pty Ltd was taken over in
December 1960. It makes small metal
pressings at Windsor (Vic.) and has
interests in the manufacture of aerosol
valves and loading aerosol containers.
A. Flavell Ltd, Sydney maker of oil
seals, was taken over in August, 1961.
Another investment interest is held in the
production of inhibitor paper.
In the financial year just ended,
National Consolidated bought out a Mel-
bourne shop-fitter, RMS Pty Ltd, but
the most unlikely diversification move
was to take over the Melbourne printer
of greeting cards, Murfett Holdings Ltd
in May.
Acquisitions have brought paid ordin-
ary capital to around the £3 million
mark, compared with £2,383,329 at last
balance date and only £323,181 four
years before. There is £50,000 in pre-
ference capital also.
The National Consolidated grouD has,
in the fourteen years as a public listed
company, shown remarkable growth and
strength. High earnings and judicious
takeovers have allowed two bonus issues
in the last six years, while no call has
been made on shareholders for capital.
The last bonus—one-for-two in June
1959 —did not vary the 20 p.c. dividend
rate established in 1958.
Best indications of the group's
advances are the rise in profit from
£44,000 in 1953 to £845,000 in 1961
and in turnover from £BlO,OOO to
£9,265,000 over the same period.
The books were ruled off on June 30,
and results are usually announced in Sep-
tember. The interim report made in
February announced that sales for the
December half-year were below those
for the particularly buoyant correspon-
ding period in 1960, so that earnings
were not as high. Nevertheless earnings
gave more than 100 p.c. margin over
the interim dividend.
The company pays 6f p.c. interim
and 131 p.c. final. Directors indicated
that the normal pay-out was in no way
endangered. Certain inter-company
operations were being integrated which
should produce economies, they said.
Directors were optimistic that the second
half of the year w'ould be better than
the first. There is evidence of returning
confidence in building, which should
boost the Perry group’s activities
It would be reasonable to assume the
earning rate for the year just ended
would be approaching 30 p.c. on capital,
compared with 35.3 p.c. in 1960-61.
Associations with leading manufac-
turers overseas —the Timken Roller Bear-
ing Co. and McQuay Inc. of USA —
should ensure that the group keeps
abreast of latest technical developments.
If past patterns are repeated, the take-
overs made this year will furnish the
means for future distributions of scrip,
when trading is a little more buoyant than
at present.
Present price level of about 265. per
ss. unit is not far above the lowest price
at which sales were recorded in the last
three calendar years—23s., 245. 9d. and
245. 3d. In 1960, enthusiastic investors
paid up to 395. for those shares. This
year the top price was 305., the lowest
245. 9d.
Present price provides an immediate
yield of 3.9 p.c. We recommend this
as an eligible stock to have and to hold
from this day forward.


Company
Par
Value
Last
3ale
1961
Prices —
16/7/62
->
23/7, 62
Div.
Rate
p.c
Div.
Yield
p.c.
Earn.
Rate
p.c.
Earn.
Yield
p.c
Amalgamated Chemicals
5/
14/3
18/
17/6t
12%
3.6
21.4
6.1
A.W.A
5/
20/4 %
20/6
20 /3t
14
3.5
22
5.4
Ampol ..
5/
11/4
12 3
12/5
14
5.7
19
7.6
A R C. ..
, .
10'
46/3
47/6
47/
15
3.2
29.7
6.6
Associated Pulp
26/
29/3
30 3
29 9
—
—
13.6
9.1
Aust. Chemicals
10,
30/4* 'a
23/10
24/
12%
5.2
21.5
8 9
A.C.I
20/
72/6
68/
65 3
8-1/3
2.5
14.5
4.5
Aust. Guarantee ..
5/
14/
12/10
13.
15
5.8
20.3
7-7
Aust. Gypsum
5/
14 3
14 /9s
14/6
10
3.5
15.9
5.1
AP.M
20
25/3
23/9
24/
8
6.7
to
8.3
Bank N.s.W
£ 20
£34
£40
£ 40%
9
4.5
12.2
6.0
Bitumen and Oil ..
5/
24/
24/
23/9
17%
3 7
35.4
7.4
Blue Metal Ind.
o/
22/7*2
23 3
23/2
15
3.2
27.6
6.1
Bradford Cotton
5/
7/fi
6/1 Ot
7/
10
7.1
11.2
7.9
British Tobacco
20/
25/
24/3
23/11
9
7.0
9.7
8.2
B.H.P,
20-'
69/
58/6
56/
6'A
2.2
13.7
4.9
Burns Philp. ..
20/
91/
£5/3/
£5 4/
10
1.9
12.4
2.4
C.B.R
20,
£ 59% a
£ 59% a
58
9%
3.3
14.8
5.1
C A G A . . . ,
5/
11/3
11/1%?
IT/
10
4.5
12.2
5.6
C.I.G.
20/
£5
98/
96/37
11
2.3
25.2
5.2
Commercial Union ..
5/
19/3
21/9
22/
6%
1.5
18.4
4.2
Concrete Ind.
5/
15/1%
13/11
7/4
13/7
10
3.7
16.6
6.3
Cox Bros
5/
7/6
7/5
10
6.7
11.8
8.3
Custom Credit ..
5/
13/
ll/9xD
10/3
15
7.3
18.2
8.9
Cyclone
10
26/
21/3
21/
10
4.8
17.7
8.4
Dalgety-N.Z. Loan .
25/
—
37 91-
37/97
8
5 3
13.9
9.2
David Jones
5/
18/9
18/
17/9
12%
3.5
28.7
8.1
Drug Houses ..
20
89/
68/
71/3
11%
3.2
17.7
4.9
Dunlop Rubber
20/
35/
40/6
40/3
10
5 0
16
7.9
Eider Smith
12/
23/9
24 9
25/67
10
4.7
12.6
5.9
Electronic •'B , ‘
10/
13/3
16/3
16/3
12%
7.7
—
—
Email
5/
7/6
7/8
7/9
10
6.5
11
6.6
E.Z. Ind.
10/
12/11
12 '4
12/5
10
8.1
12,4
10.1
Pelt and Textiles ..
5/
6/11
7 7t
7/7
10
6.7
13.9
9.2
G J Coles
5/
13/6
12 11
13/5
11
4.2
15.1
5.6
Goldsbroueh . ..
20/
28/6
29/9
31/
8
5.2
12,6
8.2
H C. Sleigh
5/
11/
12 4
12 2
12%
5.1
13.4
5.5
Henry .Jones
20'
80.-
77 6
77 9
10
2.6
28 6
7.3
H. G. Palmer .,
5/
15/0
17/3
17/3
49/3
12%
3.6
33.4
9.7
Howard Smith ..
20/
54/
SO
10
4 1
13.6
5.5
Humes .. ,
20/
70/0
72/
73/6
14
3.8
24.6
6.7
I. AC.
5/
13/4
13/6
13/9
11-2/3
6.1
20.6
7.5
I.C I,A N Z
20,
33/
41/
41/
7
3.4
9:7
4.1
J. Gadsden
10/
15/3
18 '
17/9
8
4.5
10.4
5.8
Kandos Cement
5/
—
21,T%
20/9
12%
3.0
13.5
3.3
Kelvinntor
5/
18/3
19/3
19/1
15
3.9
28.6
7.5
Lend Lease
5/
20/
17/6
18/2
10
2 7
21.4
5.7
L. J. Hooker
5/
7/
4/11
4/10%
—
—
1.1*
Mercantile Credits ..
5/
8/8
8/10
9/5
10
5.3
16,6
8.7
McPhersons
30/
47/
40/1%
40/
8-1/3
4.1
12.4
5.6
Minster
10/
82/
74/6
74/
20
2.7
40.4
5 5
Moulded Products ..
5/
13/2
13/5
12/
14
5.8
7.8
3.3
ML Isa Mines
5/
71/6
71/
69/6
25
1.7
62.8
4.5
Mutual Acceptance
5/
3/10
10/1
10/3
15
7.4
22.3
10.7
Myer
National Consolidated
5/
29/
30 2
30.3
16-2/3
2.8
28.3
4.8
5/
27/
25 3
25,9
20
3.9
35.3
6.8
Olympic Industries
5/
7/7
0/11
9/TO
9
4.5
16.2
8.1
Peters iVic.t
2/
8/ti
7/9
8/
15
3.7
18.9
4.7
Petrochemical
20/
26/
27'
27/6
6
4.4
5.9
4.3
R M Concieie
5/
17/4%
17/1
17/2
12%
3.6
22.9
6.7
Reid Murray . „
5/
5/3
3/9
3 7
9.4
13.2
5/
12/5
13/9
13/8
10
3.7
17.8
6.5
Rio Tinto
5/
15/9
17/9
10
71.7
Rothmans
20/
87/6
13/
73/6
78/
17%
4.5
47.7
12.3
Thiess
5/
11/8
11/6
12%
5.4
14.4
4.7
Tooth
20/
60/
68/9
69
13%
3.9
15.9
4.4
Union Carbide .. ..
20/
80/
66/6t
66/3
10
3.0
15.9
4.8
Waltons
5/
13/8
13/4
13/6
12'/a
4.6
19.7
7.2
Woolworths
5/
15/4
15/11
16/
12
3.8
15.4
4.9
Worniald
5/
11/10
11/6
11/6s
10
4.3
14.2
6.8
w. k. Carpenter
• Estimated on last half-year
xR Ex rights.
> Mid price,
a Before share split.
5/
s proflt.
30/
34/ 34/9
xD Ex dividend.
3 Seller,
b Buyer.
15
2.2
35.1
5.1
Banks
etc.
Other
Finance
Pastoral
Retailers
Base
Metals
All
Ords,*
Industrials
December
22. 1961
. 137 37
541.02
132.31
389 15
604.15
299.07
318.74
July 1(3.
1962
.. 157.56
557.84
170.94
365.92
565.69
295.51
311.75
July 17.
1962 .
158 49
561.09
170.48
369.84
552.28
295.29
310.43
July 18,
1962 . .
. . 158.13
561.02
170.23
370.06
550.95
294.04
308.80
July 19.
1962 . ,
.. 158.62
559.05
171.61
371.24
556.85
294.41
309.07
July 20,
1962 ..
158.33
555.54
172.14
370.81
556.46
294.68
309.91
July 23,
1962 ..
158.00
555.01
172.14
370.57
555.63
292.56
306.56
• Peak
348.40 September 16. I960.
AVERAGE
YIELD ON 100 ORDINARY SHARES
50 Leading Stocks
Div. Yield Earn Yield
50 Other Stocks —Random—,
Sample
Die, Yield Earn. Yield
Docerabet
22 1U4J1
.. 4.26
6.13
5 30
7.46
July 16,
1362
.. 4.39
6.32
5.15
2.46
July 17.
1962 ,.
4.39
6.33
5.16
2.38
July 18,
1902
i 8
.. 4 38
6.31
5.18
2 18
Julv m,
1862 ..
4.38
6.31
5.18
2.37
July 20,
1962 ..
4.39
6.32
5.18
2 21
July 23,
1962 ..
•• •«
.. 4.40
6.33
5.19
2.16
LEADING SHARE PRICES
SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE INDICES
MELBOURNE STOCK EXCHANGE
APATHY STALKS
THE MARKETS
Australian sharemarkets are
A plainly in no great temper to look
even the most attractive gift-horse full in
the mouth. Nor do they seem able to
push too far ahead of prevailing reduced
values, not least for those stocks which
last week provided clear evidence of
overcoming bad times and further evi-
dence of a brighter future.
Such widespread and pervasive scepti-
cism accords very harmoniously with
most overseas pointers, as well as with a
purely domestic mood. London and New
York exchanges, together with broader
economic happenings largely hinging on
the American economy, have done little
to stir the desultory air.
And once more we have to report no
particularly obvious hopes of a fresh
wind blowing. It has been quite a few
years since so many restrictive factors,
local and foreign, have impinged on
markets here at the same time. It is easy
to say that a lot depends on the forth-
coming Budget. Given the healthiest
bounty from the Treasurer, all sorts of
extraneous complications may still
remain.
Monday saw the week open with par-
ticular hesitation and displaying a
marked lack of respect for leaders. It
seemed to many observers a wielding of
more of the corrective rod than was
strictly needful putting BHP down
to 56/-. And a sizeable turnover at
13,350 almost lent insult to injury.
Rothmans’ splendiferous gifts and
dazzling claims merely taught the market
that it had been overmuch enthusiastic
a day or two before. On profit advance,
share split and sales dominance, prices
lost 1/6 to 75/6, again on largish turn-
over of 1850.
Otherwise turnovers stay mostly
ragged and ranges thin. Certainly prices
have reached a stage where individual
adjustments move narrowly, but then the
moves are more often downwards than
not.
Automotive shares and their many
relations could edge forward on better
production and sales figures. Elsewhere
the mixture’s as before and requires a
good deal of stirring. It is barely neces-
sary to add that, outside investment
sections, oils are still dull and lead-zincs
facing troubles of their own.
Local gold issues have drawn some
attention recently and Monday yielded
a crop of rises. The price of gold stays
obstinately put, though fingers are being
crossed throughout Europe.


CORPORATION LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on B<H March, 1950.
nm
PER ANNUM
4YEARS
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE UNSECURED
DEPOSIT NOTES
INTEREST
PERIOD
n
FUNDS MAY BE WITHDRAWN IN A PERSONAL EMERGENCY
APPLICATIONS MUST BE MADE ON THE FORM ATTACHED
TO THE PROSPECTUS, WHICH IS NOW AVAILABLE FROM:
All Branches of the Company's Bankers
THE BANK OF N.S.W.
The Company's Offices,
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Fir., Empire House, Corner Wharf and Queen Streets.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street.
NEWCASTLE WEST: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter Street.
WAGGA: 147 Bayiiss Street.
Any Member of the Stock Exchange
BROKERS:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
TRUSTEES FOR THE NOTEHOLDERS:
Bankers & Traders Insurance Company Limited
CC.I37AB
SURVEY OF JAPANESE ECONOMY
rpHE Mainichi Newspaper group of
A Japan has made available in Aus-
tralia the fourteenth issue of its annual
publication “New Japan”. This opulently
lavish production, extending over some
300 pages, surveys a tremendous range
of Japanese activities. To Australians,
and especially businessmen, intent upon
closer relations and facing an even more
intimate future, the book could provide
a revelation.
The Japanese industrial renaissance is
assuredly one of the great economic
success stories of the postwar epoch, fit
to be compared with the similar German
phenomenon. What a book like “New
Japan” does is to convey a very exact
impression of the type of customer, and
also commercial rival, we face.
For our immediate purpose, those
pages of the book entitled “Ever-grow-
ing Japanese Economy” take prime im-
portance. Before examining them, it is
perhaps advisable to bring their general
outline slightly more up to date.
At this present moment, Japan is
dealing with a small domestic slump in
the middle of achieving record monthly
exports. There seems little likelihood
of the slump going very far, though, as
in similar situations abroad, steel out-
put has been heavily cut and car pro-
duction is expected to follow.
But both cuts have become necessary
because of a huge expansion of capacity.
They occur in a climate of booming
retail sales, active luxury industry and
record workers' bonuses.
It is against such a background that
one can set the more general economic
features dealt with in “New Japan”. The
country’s economy “is as yet in the
growth stage”, the article claims. Sixteen
years after the war, all crucial indicators
are well ahead of their prewar levels.
“The so-called postwar reconstruction
or rehabilitation demands are already
over.”
Yet the actual growth rate still remains
one of the highest in the world and the
Ikeda Government still believes it
possible to double the gross national
product by 1970. That programme calls
for an average 7.8 p.c. growth rate over
the period Shades of the world’s static
economies!
Very considerable past progress
stemmed from expanded mining-manu-
facturing output leading to magnified
exports, all taking the benefit from
largely stable wholesale prices. With
the increasing exports came a vast ex-
pansion of reserves and a lowering of
the surplus labor force.
The cycle proceeds with all the pre-
cision of a textbook model. “Because of
the rapid technical developments, in-
dustries had to invest a huge amount of
money for new and still newer plant and
facilities. Furthermore, such investments,
coupled with the marked rise in the wage
standard of the Japanese, created a con-
sumption boom.”
Japan, as is well known, has run into
balance-of-payments problems, chiflev
due to industrial capital-investment pro-
grammes. Wholesale and retail prices
also grow more volatile. The Govern-
ment realises the serious necessity of
stabilising and maintaining the currency.
Nevertheless policy still aims at
liberalising 90 p.c. of imports by Septem-
ber this year, “in response to the request
of the International Monetary Fund.”
Some Australian sources have recently
suggested that we will be exchanging a
broad range of preferences with Japan in
the near future. Perhaps we'd better
hurry!


LIMITED
£750,000
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
1 %
I
Ai»|ig§§»» : - j
FOR 10 YEARS
OR 8% PER ANNUM FOR 5 YEARS
Trustees for Debenture Stock Holdings: The M.L.C. Nominees Limited
Prospectus containing application forms can be obtained from:
• Any branch of the National Bank of Australasia in N.S.W. and
Canberra.
• Stocks & Holdings Limited, 329 George Street, Sydney. 8X304T.
• Any member of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
Underwritten by:
J. and J. NORTH
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
Kindersley House,
20 O’Connell Street
Sydney. 25-6511.
and
57 Hunter Street,
Newcastle. 84645.
Applications must be made on the application form attached to the Prospectus.
MARKETING
FLURRY OVER QUEENSLAND'S POISON
ACT EXTENDS TO CANBERRA
tTriE Bulletin’s disclosure on June 30
that the health authorities in
Queensland had beaten the gun in efforts
by the States to achieve uniformity in
the control of labelling and packaging
poisons, etc., has drawn this letter from
Dr C. E. Cook, Commonwealth Direc-
tor-General of Health:—
“Dear sir,—the ‘exclusive announce-
ment’ appearing in The Bulletin on
June 30 entitled ‘Headache for
National Advertisers in New Queens-
land Act’ and the article entitled
‘Flurry Over Queensland New Poison
Law’ appearing in your issue of July
7, are grossly inaccurate and mislead-
ing in their references to uniformity in
Australian poisons legislation.
“A special committee of the National
Health and Medical Research Council
spent some years drafting model
poisons schedules for adoption
throughout the Commonwealth. These
were designed to ensure uniformity
in requirements for packing and label-
ling. The National Health and Medi-
cal Research Council approved the
final draft in 1957, and recommended
adoption in all States.
“In Queensland, where poisons con-
trol is effected by regulation, it was
possible to implement the recommen-
dations without undue delay, and new
regulations were promulgated in 1958.
In other States where amendment
could only be effected by Act of
Parliament, considerable delay was in-
evitable. However, Victoria has now
adopted the model schedules and
South Australia and Tasmania are
expected to do so in the near future.
“It is difficult to understand how
any packing and labelling requirements
of the Queensland law can prove an
embarrassment to industry, because
all the other States have agreed that
until they themselves are able to adopt
the uniform schedules, Queensland
packing and labelling will be accept-
ed.”
Dr Cook’s letter and The Bulletin
report were referred to Mr George
Fleming, secretary of the Poisons Ad-
visory Committee, who is drafting a
new Poisons Act for NSW. “I can see
nothing wrong in The Bulletin’s
article,” he said. “It puts the facts plainly.
I can see nothing ‘grossly inaccurate
and misleading’ in it. If NSW has agreed
to accept Queensland’s labelling and
packaging regulations pending the pass-
ing of our new Act, I don’t know any-
thing about it —and I can’t imagine why I
wouldn’t be told. And our new Act will
not provide that a special color shall be
used for labelling and packaging poisons,
as Queensland has done. There is no
question that Queensland has jumped
the gun.”
“Not grossly *
inaccurate”
HThe Bulletin then interviewed Mr
P. E. Cosgrave, secretary of the
NSW Pharmacy Board. He read the dis-
puted article and then said, “That’s fair
enough”.
Asked if there were any inaccuracies
in it, he replied, “Not as far as I can
see”.
Mr Cosgrave said that while NSW
had not agreed to accept Queensland’s
regulations, he had told inquirers that if
their labelling and packaging conformed
to Queensland’s law, he would not
recommend prosecutions where they
contravened NSW law. On the other
hand, if they conformed to NSW law,
they could not be prosecuted in NSW
(Continued on page 61.)


If you want dependable
■ ■ •
m
nm
let us prescribe the correct
JET PUMP
for your well
(iff®
Va
SXSteY
mi
IBnfe
CP
SPECIAL FEATURES
Adjusts automatically to changing
water levels in well.
Supply up to 35% more pressure and
20% more water than similarly rated
pumps.
Jacuzzi makes the only self-priming jet
pump for deep wells—even to-400 feet.
BE CHOOSEY
BUY IBC/JACUZZI
Arrange a FREE
“ON YOUR PROPERTY SURVEY” WITH
V
m
s
INTERCOLONIAL BORING CO. LTD.
450-466 Ann St.
BRISBANE
Phone: 2-2281
• Rockhampton •
23-25 Doody St.
ALEXANDRIA
i' Sydney. Phone: 67-3311
Townsville •
for failing to conform to Queensland law.
In other words, NSW did not insist
upon color being used on poison labels
and packages.
In view of these official statements, it
is difficult to understand Dr Cook's
statement that The Bulletin article
was “grossly inaccurate and misleading”,
since fundamentally it said almost the
same things as Dr Cook himself admits
- —that for years all the States have been
trying to get some uniformity on the
matter and that Queensland “jumped the
gun” before the other States had come
to an agreement.
The unalterable fact is that because
Queensland has, by force of law, im-
posed drastic restrictions on the pack-
aging and labelling of poisons—includ-
ing certain patent medicines, insecticides,
veterinary supplies, etc. manufactur-
ers of those products must, so far as
Queensland is concerned, comply with
the Queensland regulations irrespective
of whatever lack of restrictions exists in
other States. This has led to considerable
confusion and expense the main point
of the article.
That Victoria, as Dr Cook says, “has
adopted the model schedules, and South
Australia and Tasmania are expected
to do so in the near future” does not
alter the position one bit. Victoria has
just passed a new Act on somewhat simi-
lar lines to Queensland’s, but South
Australia, Tasmania and WA have yet
to do so.
New Act in
preparation
T|r Cook doesn’t mention NSW’s
attitude. In point of fact the NSW
Government is now having a new
Poisons Act drafted, but it is unlikely to
provide restrictive provisions in the color
and design of labels and packages like
those in the Queensland Act. The NSW
Health Department still has to get the
Chief Secretary’s Department to hand
over control of narcotics before it can
follow Queensland. Narcotics regula-
tions at present are administered by the
Police Department.
Dr Cook's claim that “all the other
States have agreed that, until they them-
selves are able to adopt the uniform
schedules, Queensland packing and label-
ling will be accepted” doesn’t mean a
thing. They might “accept” Queensland
packing and labelling, but they cannot
enforce the restrictions peculiar to
Queensland until they pass the neces-
sary legislation.
Finally, Dr Cook is invited to state
specifically what statements in the of-
fending article are “grossly inaccurate
and misleading”.
ACE SALESMAN GOES TO MYERS
Keith C. Kennedy, who for 25
years had been Australian sales
manager of Electrolux Pty Ltd, has be-
come controller of specialty sales train-
ing in the homewares division of the
Myer Emporium Ltd. This is a senior
executive position unique in Australian
retail merchandising.
Mr Kennedy is one of the best known
sales executives in Australia. He began
his career 36 years ago with Electrolux
as a door-to-door salesman in Victoria,
and later held executive positions in
Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide and Mel-
bourne. He was regarded as one of the
foremost teachers of specialty sales
techniques, and over the years his numer-
ous feats have assumed almost legendary
status in the electrical industry. Out-
side of business, his recreation seemed
to be an occasional day fishing in Port
Phillip Bay off St. Leonards.


MOTOR OVERHAUL
WHILE-U-DRIVE
REPLATES WORN, upper cylds., main bear-
ings, cliffs., gears. SAVE: Rebore. ENDS:
Piston slap, rattles, oil, petrol waste.
RESTORES: New compression, power, top
speed, zip. SAVES: Adds LSD to re-sale value.
GUARANTEED: Up to 25,000 miles. Harmless
finest engine, liquid Nu-Metal, or in Tablet
form. SIMPLY: Add Re-Nu expanding liquid
Nu-Metal, or in Tablet form to oil, petrol, or
plug holes, 4,6, 8 cylds., 60/, 70/, 80/. Testi-
monials. engineers’ reports, free advice avail-
able. Open Saturday Distributors required.
RE-NU-CO. festab. 1932 b 58 Swann St, op
Richmond Stn, Vic. JB 1755.
I enclose £ for Super Nu-Metal
NAME
ADDRESS
Missing Friends
Re MILLICENT MARY SCHOFIELD deceased
late of 617 Burke Road Camberwell Victoria.
Would the Children and/or Grandchildren of
Francis Lee’ Tuckfield and Samuel Pascoe
Tuckfield (both of whom are believed to
have emigrated to America about 1870) or
anyone knowine their whereabouts please
communicate with The Equity Trustees Coy.,
472 Bourke- Street Melbourne.
“Sabine, or Family E. Dlugosch” from
Exchwege Hessen. Germany, are sought after
by Peter & Willi KUNZ, of 28 Nelson Road,
Camberwell, Victoria.
Situations Vacant
JOURNALIST requires the services of
student or librarian to extract information
from NSW Public Library and other similar
sources. Information required is mainly
political statistics, and would take an in-
telligent person from three to four days to
obtain. Fee £l6. Apply “Journalist C/- lne
Bulletin.
DO YOU LIKE
THE NEW LOOK'
Subscription Department.
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
Please arrange for my BULLETIN to
be delivered to me each week by
MY NEWSAGENT
BY DIRECT SUBSCRIPTION
Please tick ( y 1) whichever method of
delivery you prefer
For those desiring direct sub-
scription:
Please find enclosed my cheque/money
ordei for months subscription to
THE BULLETIN
RATES (Australia- ana New Guinea): 1 year—
£2 12s : Vs year- £1 6s Post free. British
Dominions: £3 6s. Othei countries: £3 16s.
N.Z SUBSCRIPTIONS (Remit to Box 965,
Wellington, N.Z.)- 1 year--£2 12s. (N.Z.
currency); i/ 2 year— £ 1 6s. (N.Z, currency).
Please add p.rehanop to r.heque.s
n
Perhaps this is the first issue of THE BULLETIN y©«
have read. Bui whether you are a new reader or an
©ld one why don't you make sure of YOUR copy of
THE BULLETIN by ordering it each week? There are
two ways of doing s! either through your newsagent
or by direct subscription. The form at left offers you
your choice of method of delivery. You may send us
your name and address and we wifi arrange for the
newsagent nearest you to deliver your copy of
THE BULLETIN each week and charge it to your account.
Or, if you prefer it, we will mail each week's copy
to your address by direct subscription.
The
Bulletin
Incorporating The Australian Financial Times
FLOOD TOWNS
FROM BOB BOTTOM IN CASINO
T ast week as they cleaned up after
another devastating flood, NSW’s
North Coast townspeople were still fear-
ful that their towns will be dubbed
“flood towns.” Ironically, the latest near
record flood came only days after a con-
troversy raged at Lismore on this very
subject. Throughout a fairly sunny week
Lismore business and community leaders
trumpeted condemnation of an ABC
television programme which had depic-
ted Lismore as a flood town. They said
that the programme was unfair and
would do a lot of harm by the “damaging
perspective given.”
Then, just as their cries began petering
out, torrential rain and cyclonic depres-
sions swept in from the north, flooding
creeks and rivers everywhere on the
North Coast. Within 36 hours much of
Lismore was awash. Scores of houses
and cars disappeared beneath the swirl-
ing water as hundreds of families were
evacuated to higher levels. Their neigh-
bors at other river towns were soon in
the same plight.
Two men were drowned in flood-
waters in lower river areas; water spread
out over thousands of acres of farm-
land; stock either drowned or starved.
The overall stock and property losses
still cannot be accurately assessed but it
would run into many hundreds of thous-
ands of pounds.
For Lismore and many other towns it
was the third major flood in eight years
and, though the waters did not quite
reach the height of the record 1954
flood, it hit at more people than in either
1954 or 56.
Saddled with the prospect of more
floods to come, Lismore authorities
would do well to seek some means of at
least minimising the periodical havoc
than acting like ostriches and pretending
the flood problem does not exist there.
Typical of a section of opinion at
Grafton was an editorial in the “Grafton
Examiner” about Grafton suffering from
the “false flood image” given by dramatic
stories of flooding there. The paper
claimed that it was a “tragedy” that the
city’s progress should in part be blighted
by a flood image which was dispro-
portionate to the damage suffered.


Feiffer
Sof), TH6 DE/6H6OKE
,A(?T FE6HUNIM& To
TALK HOOVE 6PT
TO 6P OTTKIPE
AMP PL AH BA4EOALL-_
gur r POTT
LIRE BASE'
Ball
iMHAT'S THAT 60T ro po
WITH IT? VoEE TOUR
MOTHER LIKE 6RIP6E ?
00 I LIKE dOWUNG 7
p)t LIVE UP TO OUR
REEPOUSIBILITieO I
■ /V / <3
BUT I poor
WANT TO'
PiM BASE'
6 ALL
PC’ 1 WANT to gfW>M6 TP Tf(E
COMMUNITY CENTER 7 I
6ET A CON 6! THAT'6 PART OF
OEIO6 tROVJN UPI LEARUIUO
TO de HAPPY AT CWIU6
iMHAT wu pout /£0
60A(OT TO PO [ Jr
W I HATE
6AOEBAU ■
IK EETTIKE IMPATI&JTJOtJI
m tennis me \ce
mmi put vo hot
HATE BASEBALL <
I PP
HATE
(EE
HOCICW-
6000! WE'LL EfIMPfiO-
MIAE i HATE ICE
HOCKEP ' QUIETLY- BOX
60 OUT THERE AMP
PLAH BASZBhU!jJ
I-
Tll
TPP,
\OAP-
HOU) PIP
IT 60 ?
l THIfJK I MI6HT
HAIT BfOTEHT h/M
AROUVPy—
i«te„
MAUBE ICE
WENT HAI/f
T<9 MOTE.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 703
ACROSS
I—Foliage quits the French birds. (6)
4—Change for a leaning plum girl’s name. (8)
9—Little devil going walkabout is getting better. (9)
10—An English painter or writer. (5)
12— Hard water turned in Boadicea’s folk. (5)
13— Somewhat portly dripping is photogenic. (6, 3)
14— Fattened, but exasperated. (3, 2)
15— Labyrinth with the pianissimo article suggests one
taken for a tragic ride. (7)
17—Pet girl injured by part of a
toy golf club or toy tennis
racquet. (7)
19—Silver associated with an
irregular potentate. (5)
21— Omit the small piano about
to name it. (9)
22 Nothing is wrong to Queen
Elizabeth but the material
from which the Bridge of
San Luis Rey was built. (5)
23 Food thanks a religious paint-
ing. (5)
24 South to drink kicking the
bucket getting stable. (9)
25 A sister’s wrong enough to
help again. (8)
26 Again colours an assent
which the West’s diplomats
find hard to win. (6)
DOWN
1— Being a vulgar show-off, 50
join the first-class insurrec-
tion. (9)
2 Jonathan, as Saul saw him?
(5, 2,3, 3)
3 Timbered with black wood,
blackened bone broken—that
is coppers. (7)
5 Re-mingle string mingled with
a dark entertainer. (6, 8)
6 French demand for a hearing
is not enough to make Alec
out Ezekiel. (7)
7 The first year’s income for a
Gould. (5)
B—Joint post-office saucepan
diverts fauna. (14)
11—Plugs cigarette ads? (4, 9)
16—Snake with a sweetener put
up with delicacy. (9)
18—General Grant was obliged
to study such slacks to be
taken up. (7)
20— Noble I’d spoilt for a fair
girl. (7)
21— Musician who had great ex-
pectations with the Queen?
(5)
Solution to Crossword No. 702


A SELECTION OF GREAT CLASSICAL MUSIC
8 Album Set-112 Cash or£3 DeposMl perMontl
for 9 Months Interest Free-You Save £lO
16 well-known and loved Classical works over 6 hours' playing time!
mn
FERDE GROFE
"The Grand Canyon Suite"
and "Piano Concerto in D
Minor". Grofe himself con-
ducts The Rochester Sym-
phony Orchestra, and in the
Jesus Maria San-
roma is the pianist.
BEETHOVEN
Hubert Reichert
"Violin Concerto Op. 61"
and "Romance in F Op. 50".
Lautenbacher, violin, with
The Symphony Orchestra of
Westphalia, conducted by
Hubert Reichert. In the
Romance, Curt Cremer con-
ducts The Baden-Wurtem-
berg State Orchestra, with
Lautenbacher, violin.
MOZART
Sir Adrian Boult
"Eine Kleirie Nachtmusik"
and "Symphony No. 40 in
G Minor". Sir Adrian Boult
conducts The Vienna State
Opera Orchestra.
TCHABKOVSKY
Swan Lake (Ballet)
13 of the favourite items,
played by The Utah Sym-
phony Orchestra, conducted
by Maurice Abravanel.
mimim
E.n« HxMmjMi
Svmphofnt Ho. 40.« V H**o«
n 1- F I OELIT Y
MOUSSORGSK Y Sir
Malcolm Sargent
"Pictures At An Exhibition"
and "Night On Bald Moun-
tain". The London Sym-
phony Orchestra under the
brilliant baton of Sir Mal-
colm Sargent.
BEETHOVEN
Josef Krips
Symphony No. 6 The
"Pastoral" in F Major, Op.
68. Josef Krips conducts
The London Symphony
Orchestra.
ROSSINI
H. Scherchen
"William Tell", Auber's
"Fra Diavolo", Herold's
"Zampa", Reznicek's
"Donna Diana". The Vienna
State Opera Orchestra, con-
ducted by Hermann Scher-
chen.
RACHMANINOFF/
TCHAIKOVSKY
Two great Piano Concertos
Rachmaninoff's "Piano
Concerto No. 2 in C Minor",
and Tchaikovsky's "Piano
Concerto No. 1 in B Flat
Minor". Felicja Blumental,
pianiste, with The Vienna
State Opera Orchestra, con-
ducted by Michael Gielen.
*=•
*j *
■LZi
-
| (
!•'
&
\t
V
11
sr
\
-- - -Hurry Mail this big Reduction Coupon Today!- -
THE AUSTRALIAN WOMEN'S WEEKLY, BOX 3410, G.P.0., SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA, or call at
153 a CLARENCE STREET (opposite Barrack Street), SYDNEY. Phone: 8X4710.
Please find enclosed cheque, money order for £l2/-/-, being full price, including postage, of
The Australian Women's Weekly Readers' Selection of Great Classics,
OR
Please find enclosed cheque, money order for £3/-/-, being deposit, including postage, of The
Australian Women's Weekly Readers' Selection of Great Classics. I hereby undertake to pay
monthly instalments of £1 per month for 9 months, commencing 30 days after date of purchase,
or £9/-/- remainder immediately after 5-day trial period.
PLEASE ADD EXCHANGE TO ALL BUT SYDNEY CHEQUES.
(This agreement is
automatically cancelled if I exercise my right to return the set in good
order and condition within five days of receipt.)
Please mark if you require Stereo records
□
Please tick if Popular or Symphony Record Club member
□
NAME—Mr./Mrs./Miss (BLOCK LETTERS)
ADDRESS
(Private address, please— not P.O. Box number.)
STATE Phone Number Date
If buying on credit, a credit reference may be obtained from (Person or Company).
NAME ADDRESS
OR
MY BANK IS (BRANCH) PERSONAL SIGNATURE
If under 21, please have your parent or guardian sign here
Parent or Guardian's NAME —Mr./Mrs./Miss (BLOCK LETTERS)
Parent or Guardian's ADDRESS STATE
(Private address, please) B 28/7/62
Free Presentation Album
mnmnmn
Valued at £2—you save £lO on the
complete offer
Special transparent sleeve, vinyl bound—gold embossed
—FREE.
5 days' home trial. If not satisfied, return to Box
3410, G.P.0., Sydney— you pay return postage —and
deposit or purchase price will be refunded.
