

The Bulletin
Registered in Australia for trans-
mission by post as a newspaper.
March 10, 1962
V.
KENNELLY
THE KING
MAKER
RHODESIA’S WELENSKY
MORRIS WEST AT HOME
TANNER ON FEIFFER


SUPERANNUATION
from
for all SELF-EMPLOYED PERSONS
professional men, businessmen, farmers, graziers
and ALL EMPLOYERS and their STAFFS
Commonwealth legislation now enables the A.M.P.
Society, Australia’s No. 1 Life Office, to offer you
tax-free superannuation which can provide for:
• RETIREMENT with adequate
cash resources.
m PROTECTION for your family
against death duties and against
sickness and accident,
• CAPITAL APPRECIATION
through A.M.P.'s large holdings
of equity shares and real estate.
• GUARANTEED by £550 million
of A.M.P. assets.
For ail information,
contact your A.M.P. man or The Superannuation Manager,
A.M.P SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY COVE
A purely mutual society largest underwriter of superannuation in Australia
A.M.P. members enjoy the unauestioned security afforded by funds of
£ 550,000,000 which the Society seeks tc invest to the
greatest benefit to members. /


KENNELLY,
King Maker .. page 11
•
The White Knights .. .. 14
Madame Trotsky’s Burial . < 16
Morris West at Home .. .. 17
Northern Development: Will it Pay? 18
Middy’s Private View .. .. 22
Tanner on FeifSer . . ..40
9
NATIONAL NOTEBOOK 4
THIS AUSTRALIA •• •• 6
AROUND MELBOURNE 9
LETTERS 20
STORY 24
WILD CAT 28
SPECULATOR’S DIARY 33
FEIFFER •• 34
OUT AND ABOUT •• •• 35
RED PAGE 40
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; Phone: 27 5971.
Vol. 83
No. 4282
PLAIN ENGLISH
THE WORLD TITLE
MR CALWELL’S 15 point attack on the Prime Minister, Mr
Menzies, in the Federal Parliament last week should have dismayed
even some of his more sober supporters. Only two of the points—
that Mr Menzies has adopted merely short-term measures to stimulate the
economy and that he provided no basis for long-term planning of invest-
ment have the merit of a reasonable argument. Had Mr Calwell
hammered at these he would have deserved some credit. But all his
other charges were muddled appeals to sectional interests which destroyed
the value of his attack.
We find, for example, the remarkable accusation that Mr Menzies
gave no assurance to the dairying, meat, wheat, sugar, fruit and other
primary industries in the event of Britain being admitted to the European
Common Market. This charge is not only unfair, it is untrue. It would
have been easy for the Government to have made vote-catching but
obviously impossible promises to the primary producers now living in the
shadow of the European Common Market. But neither Mr Menzies nor
Mr McEwen, nor for that matter the British Prime Minister Mr Macmillan
or President Kennedy or even Mr Calwell himself, can force the hard-boiled
Ministers of the European Economic Community to give the eagerly
sought guarantees and assurances to our fruit growers, dairy farmers,
sugar producers or meat exporters. The Federal Government has been
hard at work trying to defend Australia’s economic interests in London,
Paris and Brussels. It has not been very successful, but it has done as much
as anybody else could have done under the very unfavorable circumstances.
Unfortunately, Mr Calwell and his colleagues have not bothered to try
to understand the economic factors and forces which have led to the
formation of the European Common Market and its rapid rise to economic
and political power. For a long time the United States had also refused to
take serious notice of the European Economic Community. Yet President
Kennedy, having come to appreciate its great economic and political sig-
nificance, has been quick to risk unpopularity and hostility in the Congress
to rush through a far-reaching economic agreement with the European
Economic Community. And US protectionist traditions have deeper roots
than Australia’s.
However, Mr Calwell is not interested in such mundane things. In
one breath, he accuses Mr Menzies of failing to give reassuring promises
to primary producers and also charges the Government with deferring the
restoration of import restrictions. In other words, Mr Calwell demands
that the Government makes other nations buy from us, but at the same
time wants it to shut the door to imports. It is extremely difficult to force
others into free-trading and play the protection game at home at the
same time. Even the United States, the traditional exponent of trade
liberalism abroad and high tariffs at home, has decided the time has come
to ease its protectionist policy.
Finally, Mr Calwell has accused Mr Menzies of having “betrayed
the hopes of migrants coming to Australia” and postponed legislation to
expose and curb monopolistic practices. These two accusations make the
Leader of the Federal Opposition the uncrowned king of demagogues in
Australia, with a fair chance of winning the world title.


National
Notebook
On the Beach
IT was a perfectly beautiful Sunday
afternoon, and a friend of ours was
lazing on his local beach. As the sun
soothed him to near sleep, he mused on a
favorite theme of his. Is Australia a
restrictive country or not? Is it, in shoit,
a country of narks? Prompting him were
signs posted here and there forbidding
dogs on the beach, forbidding rubbish,
forbidding the consumption of liquor, for-
bidding just about
everything but the
pernicious preval-
ence of transistors.
At this stage, half-
way between sleep
and consciousness,
the park ranger
appeared, handsome
and forbidding in
blue slacks, blue
shirt, tie and peaked
cap. Despite his uni-
form, he is known
to one and all as the
“Dog Walloper.” He
arrived in a Volks-
wagen van on the
side of which was
printed RSPCA —
Ladies’ Auxiliary—
Ambulance. Obvi-
ously a Big Action
impended. His first
target was the dogs. All but one of half
a dozen on the beach sheltering under
umbrellas belonged to people on the
beach. The owners were soundly scolded
and rather irritably they led their dogs
away. The “Dog Walloper” then turned
on any youngsters around with r car
guns. Never mind whether the guns
were unloaded or not, their proper place
was out on an uncomfortable reef of
rocks which -runs parallel with the b:ach
into the blue South Pacific. The beach
was rapidly becoming denuded. Look-
ing for other worlds to conquer, the
“Dog Walloper” gazed upwards into the
thick bush which runs along one side of
the beach —bush which has grassy
patches and nice, warm bare rocks shel-
tered by trees and which invites harmless
necking couples to sink into each other’s
arms. The “Dog Walloper” noticed two
young boys swinging high from the
branches of a tree. Sternly he ordered
them down. A commendable desire to
protect natural fauna? A fear that they
might fall and come to grief? Hardly.
They had no right, it appeared, to be
occupying a vantage point where they
might oversee something “unsuitable.”
Having established law, order and
morality, the “Dog Walloper” turned
his gaze to the beach again. A sole dog
remained without collar or ostensible
owner —a huge, brindle Alsatian in prime
condition with long, white teeth and of
proven unshakeable good nature. It was
too much for him. He gave up and
drove off without a word. The Big
Action was over.
Men in Curly Moustaches
HThere is something rather melancholy in
the auction of personal effects in the
house of the dead man. But the well-
publicised auction of the furniture of the
late Norman Schureck seemed to
be made rather more melancholy when
the crush of men with curly moustaches
and curly-brimmed hats and women : n
silk suits and Italian knitwear managed,
by pushing against it, to stop the grand-
father clock. (“Quite a nice piece,” said
a dealer, “but, of course, it would be
better if the case were mahogany.”)
The few dealers there showed all the
contempt of the professional for the
fumbling amateur. “How much do you
think I should go to for the Spode dish?”
a man anxiously asked a dealer. “Ten
bob,” the dealer said shortly.
However, most people probably finally
got what they came for, but it is expected
that you'll have to have a substantial
cheque-book to be successful at the
picture auction which will include Mr
Schureck's Dobells at the end of the
month. Melbourne Gallery, which, of
course, has no Dobells, is expected to
come in strongly. The Art Gallery of
NSW, for sentimental reasons, will try to
get hold of Dobell's portrait of Schureck.
A Matter of Precedence
TJAVING paid our £6 6s. we went along
the other night to the official dinner
at the Australia Hotel to farewell the
NSW Commissioner
of Police Mr Colin
Delaney. Norman B.
Rydge was in the
chair with the Hon-
orable Asher Joel
guiding him from
the side-lines. At the
official table were
the Governor, the
Premier, Leader of
the Opposition and
Acting Chief Justice.
Cardinal Gilroy and
Archbishop Gough
were tactfully placed
equidistant from
each other on the
right and left hand
sides of the guest of
honor. Mr Delaney
heard himself called
the “greatest com-
m i s s i o n e r the
Force has seen” and in his speech
modestly accepted this accolade. By the
time Lord Mayor Jensen rose to his
civic feet, the assembled 450 “representa-
tive” citizens were very weary indeed.
They had heard from Mr Rydge 3 times,
Mr Heffron, Mr Askin, Mr Delaney, and
His Excellency. Mr Joel had also read
messages from Interpol, Scotland Yard,
and Elliot Ness. Lord Mayor Jensen
however, spoke well, talked of the early
days of the force when it was composed
of the “more respectable convicts in the
colony.” Most interesting point of the
evening was the Order of Precedence used
by the various speakers when opening
their speeches. Heffron placed “His
Eminence” before “His Grace.” So too
did Mr Rydge and Mr Delaney. Mr
Askin very adroitly referred to “Reverend
Sirs,” while Sir Norman Nock placed
“His Grace” before “His Eminence.”
THE BOARD-ROOM DIRECTOR
On every club committee, board and known municipality
You'll find a tough, loquacious, domineering personality.
His joy it is to rule the roost and pre-decide decisions,
And kill at once all new ideas and young directors' visions.
At first you’ll find he’s sauve and calm and speaks with mock humility;
He lifts his nose disdainfully at shouting and scurrility ;
He quotes his long experience with modesty affected,
Until some colleague’s shrewd remark reveals that he’s detected.
He then proceeds to hold the floor with unrestrained verbosity;
His humble mien at once gives way to ill-concealed pomposity ;
And if perchance you should succeed his purpose in defeating,
You know he'll fix it on the side before another meeting.
MICHAEL SEARLE
For a note on Michael Searle, see page 39


Tanner
"I'M GLAD THE CONSERVATIVES WON IN NSW."


This Australia
ELECTIONS
HOW HEFFRON WON
FROM MUGGA
R. J. HEFFRON
Again
'T'he easiest explanation for the over-
whelming victory of Mr Heffron’s
Labor Government on Saturday (it will
now have a majority of at least 12) is to
say that it was a continuation of the
swing against the Liberals evident in the
last Federal election. This seems
plausible especially in the light of the
large swing of approximately six per cent,
to Labor in Saturday’s South Australian
election. However, commentators will
have to dig a little deeper when examining
Mr Heffron’s win.
Another and a likely explanation,
lies in the failure of the Liberal and
Country parties to gain some of the
traditional Labor Catholic vote. “State
aid” was an issue underlying the election
and while the Labor party promised
nothing, and the Country party promised
interest-free loans, the Liberal party made
the mistake of saying it opposed “direct
aid” but then promised free travel for
all school children and increased
bursaries. While this offer in itself was
substantial it was not enough for the
traditional Catholic Labor voters to
switch. While Liberal policy on aid
certainly gained no Catholic voters it may
have tended to lose some of the strong
anti-Catholic fringe of Liberal voters. Mr
R. Askin’s promise of legalising Starting
Price betting would also have lost votes
from the conservative wowser element of
Liberals rather than gaining votes from
“Labor gamblers.”
While Federal issues must have played
some part in Labor’s victory there is
some evidence which tends to minimise it.
For instance, in the seat of Maitland, an
area badly hit by unemployment, local
newspapers throughout the election cam-
paign were complaining bitterly of
economic policies which produced unem-
ployment. While this should have reacted
in Labor’s favor the sitting Liberal party
member, Mr M. A. Morris, significantly
increased his majority. This too was the
same in other seats such as Burwood,
Lowe, Hughes and Cronulla.
The redistribution of seats also favored
the Labor party —76 of the 94 Assembly
seats had their boundaries changed.
Much also was made of the Liberal
policy of enforcing some of the Royal
Commission’s recommendations on rent
increases and this plank in the Liberal
platform cost them the seats of Bligh,
Drummoyne and Coogee.
While some Liberal quarters and most
of the daily Press were optimistic at the
prospects of a Liberal win a more sober
appraisal would have saved them some of
their disappointment. In 1959, the Liberal
vote was unusually high and as Mr J. L.
Carrick, the General Secretary of the
NSW Liberal Party told Thf. Bulletin a
few weeks ago, the Liberals first target
had to be to again reach this level. With
the electoral redistribution this in fact
meant that the Liberal party percentage
had to increase on its 1959 result before
gains could be made.
Despite some commentators' reports,
Liberal party spokesmen admit that their
percentage is down one or two per cent,
on the 1959 vote. Like the last Federal
election, the NSW election will be one
about which experts will argue for years.
Did the campaign have any effect? Or
had people made up their minds at the
time of the Federal election?
MRS HEAVEN’S APPEAL
IN THE COURT
OF DISPUTED RETURNS
FROM A HOBART CORRESPONDENT
jC ARLY last month Mr B. P. Crawford of
Sydney was elected on a recount to
a casual vacancy in the Tasmanian
Parliament as one of Franklin’s seven
members. On February 26, in a judgment
that highlighted yet another oddity in
Tasmania’s Hare-Clark proportional
representation electoral system, Chief
Justice Sir Stanley Burbury decided
Crawford was not “legally capable” of
being elected. The recount being
“absolutely void”, a new recount has been
set down for late this week.
Mr Crawford was elected to the House
of Assembly in 1956. He was Govern-
ment Whip when the ALP re-endorsed
him for the 1959 election. But party
manoeuvring to ensure the re-election of
Mr J. J. Dwyer, then believed to be in
danger, went against Crawford and he
failed to win a seat. Soon afterwards
Crawford took a job in Sydney, announ-
cing that he had left the ALP “because it
did not include State aid to non-State
schools.” The veteran Dwyer died
in January, and a recount of
preferences on the ballot papers which
had elected him gave the seat to Craw-
ford.
Immediately after Crawford's election
was announced, Mrs L. Heaven, one of
the defeated Labor candidates, said that
she would appeal to the Court of Dis-
puted Returns, which was thereupon
convened in Glenorchy, with Sir
Stanley Burbury presiding.
Mr H. E. Cosgrove (for Mrs Heaven)
sought a declaration that Crawford was
not duly elected, and that Colin
Geoffrey Brooker (another Labor
candidate) was ineligible to nominate for
the vacancy, because their names were
not on the electoral rolls for the House
of Assembly, nor had they at the time of
the “election” (i.e., the recount) lived
six months continuously in the State.
“1 am in no doubt,” said Sir Stanley,
“that the manifest intention of the legis-
lature as expressed in these statutes is
that no person shall be capable of being
elected to the House of Assembly
(whether at a general election or at a
by-election by means of a recount) who
is not a resident of Tasmania at the time
he claims to have been elected.”
There was, he said, no evidence before


him concerning Brooker, who did not
appear, and it would be up to the electoral
officer to determine whether Brooker’s
nomination at a subsequent recount was
valid.
News of the decision was loudly
cheered by delegates to the ALP State
conference, then in session. It is now
certain that another Labor candidate will
get the vacancy, though not necessarily
Mrs Heaven. However, the attrition of
the years may yet return her, and other
unsuccessful candidates. “If there were
enough deaths or resignations,” an
Opposition candidate said, “I could get
in myself.”
Not the least piquant feature of the
upset is that it confirms the opinion can-
vassed in December, that W. H. Fraser
should not have been elected on a
recount following the resignation of Dr
Turnbull (Ind.) as one of the Bass
members in order to contest the Senate
election. Mr J. C. Mortimer, one of the
DLP Senate candidates, protested against
the validity of Fraser’s nomination
when the seat became vacant, claiming
that Fraser had left Tasmania after the
1959 election. Formerly secretary to
Senator Bill Aylett, he went north when
Aylett decided that he could represent
Tasmania much more comfortably from
the Gold Coast. Fraser was in business
in Brisbane at the time of the recount.
Mortimer drew attention to precisely
the same sections of the acts as were
quoted against Crawford, but took no
direct action. No defeated candidate did
so, either, presumably because those in
the running were ALP men unwilling to
upset a party victory. Forty days having
passed since the recount, no recourse now
remains under the law.
There is questioning, however, of why
the Attorney-General, Mr R. F. Fagan,
took no action to intervene when
Mortimer wrote officially to him protes-
ting against Fraser’s election.
LAW
A 4ft. 8½in. OUTLOOK
FROM AN ADELAIDE CORRESPONDENT
SIR OWEN DIXON
Not enforceable
OiR Thomas Playford has always had
a healthy 4ft B|in outlook. Hence
his severe shock when last week Sir Owen
Dixon's High Court rejected the SA Gov-
ernment's action to compel the Common-
wealth to begin immediately carrying
out its obligations under the £6om.
railway standardisation agreement of
1949. (The two rail lines that particularly
concern SA are the Transcontinental
Railway between SA and the Northern
Territory and the standard gauge link
between Port Pirie and Broken Hill). The
seven High Court judges held
the 1949 agreement was a political
arrangement and not the sort of contract
that could be enforced at law.
The judgments were delivered a few
days before the State elections and could
hardly have done anything but harm to
the Government in the northern border-
line electorate of Frome. which includes
practically all of the territory that would
benefit in the standardisation of the Port
Pirie-Broken Hill railway line and which
Premier Playford had hoped to win from
Labor. He had all but promised the
electors of Frome that standardisation
money from the Commonwealth would
shortly be forthcoming, so within nine
hours of the handing down of the judg-
ments, Sir Thomas was able to give a
detailed comment on the texts, to pacify
electors. He said that the SA Govern-
ment would consider applying to the
Privy Council for leave to appeal.
The economic consequences of the
judgment will be damaging for SA and is
particularly irritating to Sir Thomas when
he sees the vast sums that the Govern-
ments of Queensland and WA are able to
wheedle from the Menzies Ministry for
their communications work. In SA the
words Mount Isa and Kvvinana mean
something that SA never got.
In a final twist of the screw some
constitutional authorities now believe
that the High Court may have set
a precedent which would perhaps nullify
the legal implications of other Com-
monwealth-State agreements. Playford
himself went so far as to say: “The judg-
ment opens up a new conception in the
relationship between the Commonwealth
and the States.”
EXPLORATION
THE GOOD OIL
FROM A BRISBANE CORRESPONDENT
TpHE normally staid corridors of Parlia-
ment House echoed to cheers late in
the afternoon of Wednesday, March 1, as
Country party and Liberal members,
locked in a tense Caucus debate, heard
the contents of an urgent telegram rushed
to Premier Frank Nicklin. The good oil
had been struck in a big way at Moonie
No. 2 well, near Tara, and at long last
it seemed certain that Queensland has
finally struck a commercial field.
Harassed by the highest unemployment
ratio in Australia, with its coffers almost
empty, the Nicklin-Morris coalition sees
in the oil strike the possible solution to
its problems. The State Government will
receive a 10 per cent, royalty on all oil
found in Queensland —which could mean
very big money.
“Great news for Queensland,” said a
jubilant Premier Nicklin with Opposition
Leader John Duggan sitting on the side-
lines. Both know that proving of a com-
mercial field in Queensland will make
Government a prime target and that it
will probably take at least until the
elections next year before money starts to
roll . . . always presuming that the field
lives up to expectations.
Queenslanders themselves, cautious
over oil after nearly half a century of
boom and bust explorations, are now
quite convinced that at last the big find
has been made. Housewives jammed the
public gallery of the Brisbane Stock
Exchange on Thursday morning to watch
AOG shares rocket from £4 to £7 in a
matter of hours before closing at £5 15s.
At tiny Tara, a bank put a share baro-
meter outside its front door, on which
fluctuating prices were chalked during
the day. Everyone in Tara seems to be
in on the ground floor —and most of
them are sticking grimly to their shares
in anticipation of major increases as other
wells confirm the present picture.
All through the area are “reliable”
reports that a fantastically rich field has
been located ... but there is a lot to be
done yet before Queensland can start
spending its money.
Two new Union-Kern-AOG wells are
now being planned, one near Moonie 1
and 2, and the other reported to be at
Wandoan, 80 miles north of Miles, where
geophysical surveys are said to be even
more encouraging than those made at
Tara.
Given commercial oilfields, with its
unlimited supplies of coal, bauxite,
copper, lead and iron ore deposits, the
Cinderella State might really put on a ball
in the next decade.


BANKS
NEVER ON SATURDAY?
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
CR. MAURICE NATHAN
open letter
\X7HEN Interior Minister Gordon
** Freeth declared Saturday a bank
holiday in Canberra last month, it left
Victoria as the only State where banks
open on Saturdays —or, as the bank offi-
cers prefer to put it, the only place in
Australasia. Tasmania and New Zealand
adopted a five-day week for banks some
25 years ago, but the main bastion fell
this year when NSW followed SA,
WA and Queensland in abolishing
Saturday banking.
Melbourne’s Lord Mayor, Councillor
Maurice Nathan, who is chief of
the Patterson's Ltd chain of retail stores,
decided that offence was the best form of
defence. He published an open letter
arguing that Saturday closing would
cause “inconvenience, frustration and
annoyance on a day which has become
the traditional time for husband and
wife to shop together.” Cr Nathan
claimed that one main reason for Mel-
bourne’s “dynamic growth” since 1945
had been its first-class retail trading
facilities, and these would be adversely
affected if the bank employees got their
way. He quoted statistics showing that
between 16-17 per cent, of the week’s
business in city and suburban shops
was transacted on Saturday mornings—
-6f per cent, of the total shopping time
of the week.
As alternatives to Saturday closing,
he suggested staggering of hours for
bank officals or the employment of more
staff. His campaign received prompt
backing from the Retail Traders’ Associ-
ation, the Victorian Employers’ Federa-
tion and editorially from the Melbourne
“Herald.” In contrast, the “Age” has
argued that Victoria cannot hope to hold
out much longer. “It may be regrettable
that another service to the public will
disappear, but the bank staffs have a
just claim to a five-day week.”
Mr James Quirk, accountant at the
Footscray branch of the ANZ bank,
is the main spokesman for the five-day-
week. He is State president of the Aus-
tralian Bank Officials’ Association and
secretary of the Combined Bank Offi-
cers’ Five-Day Week Committee. Mr
Quirk, who has worked in banks for
20 years, senses that victory is near.
Bank hours are a matter of State
legislation, and, although Premier Bolte
disagrees with the five-day week in
principle, he regards it as inevitable.
However, last week the Parliamentary
Liberal and Country party rejected
Bolte’s recommendation for a Bill to
authorise banks to close on Saturday.
Bolte said later he still regards a five-day
banking week as inevitable.
Supporters of the status quo have been
quick to seize upon reports from Sydney
that bank officers are using their extra
leisure to take casual work in retail
stores on Saturdays. More alarming to
them, however, are reports from the
same city that the bank officials’ victory
has inspired a movement for the post
offices to close on Saturdays.
Most alarming was the Shop Assistants
Union’s announcement that it would
begin a nation-wide campaign for no
Saturday work at all and no late night
shopping either.
The reaction in Victoria was immediate.
The “Herald” even sent its columnist,
E. W. Tipping, to look at Hobart on
Saturday morning, one of the rare
occasions when a newspaper has sent a
reporter into a good circulation area to
see how dull a town could be. Tipping
reported that Hobart’s Saturday was so
dull he almost went to Church by mistake.
Everything W'as closed except the pubs and
the Bookmakers’ Club. Melbourne on a
Saturday was like Las Vegas compared
with Hobart’s Saturday morning. You
couldn’t even buy an aspirin unless you
waited for the chemists to open between
7 p.m. and 8 p.m.
The Retail Traders Association is now
urging a State referendum on Saturday
morning retail and bank trading. The
Association's director, Mr W. D. N.
Johnson, no doubt, is thinking of last
week’s Gallup poll in which 80 per cent,
of Victorians when put the question
wanted the savings banks open on Satur-
day mornings. This compared with 63
per cent, in favor in South Australia and
58 per cent, in NSW. In Tasmania only
15 per cent, wanted them open and 78
per cent, wanted them closed. Which
seemed to indicate that having everything
closed on a Saturday could, just possibly,
be a state of bliss.
ENTERPRISE
THE CAMPAIGN AGAINST VESTEYS
FROM A DARWIN CORRESPONDENT
IVjfaybe it’s the result of too much pa-
ternalism, too many allowances, and
too little enterprise, but at the first sign
of trouble Territorians forget all their
talk about individualism and scream for
another subsidy, it happened again re-
cently when William Angliss (Vesteys)
opened the first full-scale commercial
meatworks Darwin has had since the
original Vesteys abattoirs closed soon
after World War 1.
The decision to build the new killing
plant was welcomed by NT Administra-
tion, which had long hoped for establish-
ment of small industries —fish and fruit
canning factories, for example—to boost
employment and population. The plan
was most popular of all among Top End
pastoralists, to whom it offered their
first regular, easily accessible market
since the Asian cattle trade went into
eclipse a couple of years back. The abat-
toirs will kill only about 150 beasts a
week at first, but there is provision for
a small export annex. Looking to the
future, Mr. H. Holland, general manager
for Australia of William Angliss, said:
“It is designed to comply with export
requirements and allow for extensive
expansion.”
Previously in Darwin individual
butchers and others had done their own
killing. Now it was to be centralised
under the new setup. It was here the
trouble started.
Vesteys is not the most popular name
in the North. The announcement that
slaughtering charges would be £5/10/-
per beast —a stiff rise—launched a typical
Darwin hullabulloo. Several public pro-
test meetings followed, a deputation was
named to wait on the Administrator.
Last week came the threat of a “boycott
on beef” (“Mutton is cheaper,” warned
North Australian Workers' Union presi-
dent Bert Graham).
Some weeks ago, Darwin butcher Keri
Larkins said meat prices had gone up


twopence a pound and could rise further.
(Present rates: 6/6 a lb for fillet steak;
4/6 topside). He asked Administration
to allow Fog Bay cattleman Max Sargent
to continue killing in competition with
the abattoirs. Darwin Primary Producers’
Union acting secretary, Bob Gilmore,
called the meatworks a monopoly and
warned that once Sargent was forced off
the market “the boots would be in.”
AEU secretary Pat Wood accused Ves-
teys of “trying to take over control of
the meat industry in the North.” He
added: “It is our duty to block this
colossal monopoly.” Even Mrs Lyn Ber-
lowitz, Darwin business woman and the
Territory’s mildest Legislative Council-
lor, joined the chorus.
Naturally this imbroglio was too prom-
ising not to attract Brian Manning, Dar-
win’s Communist party secretary. He
bobbed up as chairman of a protest meet-
ing. At once there were calls for a
“Government abattoirs” with, naturally,
that old Territorian cure-all, a “subsidy”
to keep prices down. There was talk of
going to the Courts to have prices fixed.
William Angliss, having spent
£lOO,OOO on the project, said nothing.
Nor, so far, have the Top End cattlemen
—apart from a few butchers’ suppliers
around Darwin. The Administration,
which for years had vainly tried to en-
courage firms to set up a meatworks
here, showed little sympathy with the
growing din. The Administrator, Mr
Roger Nott, made this quite clear when
he opened the plant early in February.
He described it as “the first vigorous and
important approach to the slaughtering of
Territory cattle for the past 40 years.” It
would boost employment, he said, and
other developments, such as a tanning
industry, could grow out of it.
Since the meatworks opened, protests
have developed into an organised attack
on the venture. This culminated in the
recent call for a “boycott on beef.” The
movement seems to be aimed at estab-
lishment of a Government abattoirs—
which, if the Commonwealth agreed,
would be a straight double-cross of
William Angliss, who certainly were not
discouraged from coming up here and
who have spent £lOO,OOO already.
Darwin may have more than its
share of underprivileged people. But a
great proportion of those at the protest
meetings are already subsidised quite
heavily through one form of district
allowance or another. An assurance of
cheap beef at the expense of the Aus-
tralian taxpayer would seem a spineless
substitute for economic development of
the Territory to the stage where it can
pay its way and thus earn the right, one
day, to manage its own affairs.
Around Melbourne
THOSE WERE THE DAYS
TTow many genuine, original
A characters are there in your
town? In Melbourne we would be
hard put to find a dozen, but one of
that dozen would have been Jimmy
Watson, who died last week. He was
58. Jimmy started as a flautist. He
worked in a theatre orchestra and
in the days of the silent movies it was
Jimmy who helped to play the silent
hero across a silent screen to save a
silent heroine.
Talkies put an end to this promis-
ing career. In 1935 he decided that he
would like to teach Australians how
to drink and enjoy their own wine.
So he brought a wine bar, not in an
awfully nice suburb like South Yarra,
but a few doors from a brothel in the
wine-bum area of Lygon Street, Carl-
ton. Few people thought he’d last a
month, particularly after he had
thrown all the best customers, the
“Winos,” out on their ear. But Jimmy
didn’t tie himself to any of the
wine houses. Using his own remark-
able judgment he bought his own
wine in bulk and bottled it himself.
He sold it at 3d. and later at 6d. a glass.
He was red-faced, wore a brewery
waggon-driver’s leather apron, and
he was immensely hearty. Quickly he
picked up a marvellous trade from
the University, and later from half of
Melbourne. Among some dreadful
pictures he had on the walls there was
a cartoon which depicted a barman
saying: “I think, old chap, in the in-
terests of the trade you should en-
deavor to classify the wine in rather
broader categories than ‘Red Ned,’
‘Bombo’ and ‘Extra Grouse Plonk. ”
There was a yard out the back
where you could cook your own wine-
soaked steak. It was always a dread-
ful problem trying to get back to the
office before 4 p.m. Along with his
restaurant at New Ascot House in
Ascot Vale, he did much to take the
snobbery and cant out of wine-
drinking. Over 1000 people turned up
for his funeral service at St Jude’s
Church of England in Carlton. His
son Alan is carrying on the business.
T>ut while Jimmy showed one
method of tackling Melbourne’s
deplorable drinking habits, last week
the State Council of the Liberal and
Country party came up with an-
other idea. It passed a vote in favor
of weaker beer in Victoria. This was
gravely disturbing to many of us, par-
ticularly in the city area, or the
Golden Mile, which has lost 23 hotels
in the past 10 years. Three hotels
closed their doors on New Year’s Eve.
Weaker beer would be the last
straw. A street poll among Melbur-
nians who have always shown a quite
unusual interest in their beer, proved
that the LCP was tackling the most
dangerous move it had ever under-
taken. But at the week’s end support
came from a remarkable source. The
Rev. Robertson McCue, who has led
temperance campaigns for the past 30
years, said: “Don’t do it.” He ex-
plained that if we had weaker beer
the man who stopped at the local
every evening for one or two pots
would not be satisfied. He would need
five or six to get the same old kick
and the family budget would suffer.
A t last work has begun on our
£4,250,000 National Gallery and
Cultural Centre in St Kilda Road.
The first contract for £30,000 was
signed last week with John Holland
Constructional Company Pty Ltd.
The first job will be the sinking of 1300
concrete piles. Roy Grounds, the
architect, has had a busy week. For
his model he used 1300 knitting needles
to mark the 1300 piles. On the Satur-
day night he discovered there were 220
needles short. So on Sunday morning
the staff was busy knocking up all the
stores in Whitehorse Road that looked
as if they might sell yellow 12 gauge
knitting needles. Culture - minded
storekeepers left their homes,
opened their shops, rummaged in
drawers and at last Mr. Grounds’s
men managed to gather 300 needles.
All was saved.
The model is complete but as the
bulldozers move in there is still no
name for the cultural centre. The
gallery director, Eric Westbrook, con-
fesses he lies awake at night thinking
about it. So far there have been many
suggestions, but Mr. Westbrook con-
tinues to lie awake. We have had Bat-
man Centre, The Gallery of Arts,
Felton Centre, Murdoch House, The
Concourse of Culture, the Melba
Institute and even the Halycon
Gallery, after the fabulous bird.
My award for the worst suggestion
goes to “The Dallas Muse” in honor
of Sir Dallas Brooks. While one has
every respect for Victoria’s Gov-
ernor the fear is that the uncultured
might mistake the Centre for the
Government House Stables.
BATMAN


For election matter in this issue requiring
signature, Peter Hastings, of 252 George Street,
Sydney, is responsible.
ASTRONAUTS
CITY LIGHTS
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
SIR HARRY HOWARD
Native caution
Tohn Glenn’s thank-you message for
** turning on the lights as he passed
over Perth precipitated a civic row in the
city below him or rather two rows, the
first over whether the city lights should
be turned on at all to guide him on his
way round the earth, and the second as
to whether the man who had opposed
turning them on should go to New York
as the city's envoy for the ticker-tape
welcome to the astronaut.
Standing stunned in the limelight was
Perth Lord Mayor Sir Harry Howard,
a self-made British immigrant. His nati e
caution prompted him to fumble a pub-
licity pass which could cost him his
mayoral robes.
The ball he dropped was the suggestion
that the lights of Perth should be turned
on to aid Colonel Glenn’s air to ground
observation during his flight. Perth was
the first city he would pass over on the
dark side of the earth and it would make
it a convenient sighting for him, accord-
ing to fellow astronaut Leroy Cooper
who \ as tracking his movements at the
Muchea station just north of Perth.
The suggestion did not originally come
from Cooper, but from news-sharp
reporter Bill King who was covering the
Muchea preparations for a Western Aus-
tralian newspaper. A former Fleet Street
man who returned home when the “News
Chronicle” and the “Star” were closed
down in 1960, he saw the publicity value
for Perth in this gesture and took it to
Lord Mayor Howard after Cooper had
confirmed it would help Glenn’s obser-
vation. Howard demurred at leaving the
city lights on after the normal shut-off
time of 1.15 a.m., saying he wanted
con '.rmation of its scientific value. In
the meantime, publicity-conscious WA
Premier David Brand jumped into the
ring with an offer to pay the £2OO-odd
electricity bill involved in the extra light-
ing out of Government funds.
Sir Harry was not content to be
graciously defeated in this prestige battle,
but issued a statement describing the
lights-up plan as “wasteful.” He said he
thought the idea came from unsophisti-
cated people who might be made to look
silly afterwards.
In the long run, nobody has been made
to look sillier than Sir Harry. King’s
instinct proved correct and the world
Press seized on this gesture as a symbol
of the cosmic co-operation of project
Mercury. American newspapers rati
stories on the “city of lights,” as it came
to be called, and the New York “Journal
American” described the turning on of
the lights as “the most touching and
human aspect of Col. Glenn s flight . . . .
There are not many cities in the world
capable of such an unselfish civic action.”
It offered to pay the cost of
flying Premier Brand to New York to be
the guest of Mayor Robert Wagner at
the ticker-tape reception to Glenn. Brand
said he could not go because of election
commitments and the invitation passed
to Sir Harry as Perth’s Lord Mayor.
There was, however, a wave of popular
feeling in the city against his acceptance
of the invitation. Angry letters were
written to the newspapers and Sir Harry
received a string of telephone calls which
he labelled as “offensive. ’’ He left Perth
by Boeing jet in a stony silence and was
so flustered by what happened that he
lost his plane ticket and passport at
Sydney.
It is probably not much consolation to
the ebullient Lord Mayor that Glenn
finally passed over the city for the first
time at 11.30 p.m. when the street lights
were on, anyway.
IN THE JUG
MARCH 11, JBB2
[ln 1882 J. F. Archibald, associate Editor
of The Bulletin, and John Haynes, its
Advertising Manager, were imprisoned in
Darlinghurst jail for failure to pay plain-
tiff’s costs in a libel action which arose out
of a Bulletin attack on the organised
orgies and vicious larrikinism prevailing on
Sydneys Clontarf beach. The manager of
the. Clontarf. picnic, ground, sued for
defamation and won. While in tail Arc hi-
iff".., H V neS , a ser,es of artlcles
called In the Jug- One of their visitors
was G. R. [later Sir George) Dibbs after-
waids Premier of NSW, who himself had
spent 12 months in the debtors’ quarter
of Darlinghurst jail.
WE had our first dinner “in the jug
to-day. Our arrangements yesterday be-
mg of rather an unsettled nature owing to
the stealthily dramatic manner in which
we were dragged to our doom, our mid-day
repast consisted of a jug of soup left for
us by (it appears) an elderly' female of an
austere appearance. On the handle of the
vessel was tied a luggage label, upon which
inscribed the words—“l will pray lor
you," and underneath “return the jug. ’ The
whole was signed “Sarah Simpson.” This
refreshment was the cause of quite a little
tragedy, for, on Haynes seizing the jug with
avidity to take the first gulp, he not only
swallowed the soup, but about two inches
o! the bark of his tongue. He is now iiving
entirely on oatmeal that has been carefully
boned To-day our banquet was of a most
rekerky description; the graceful manner
in which we devoured curried chops upon
of d ;r r^vrr e , d three pages
of the Protestant Standard” cannot be
adequately expressed in narrative. There
was a pie, too, but owing to the butler
having forgotten to bring the ancestral
plate, we were fain to cheerfully consume
it in alternate bites.
first visitor was Mr. George R. Dibbs.
U H e came upon us—although it was
raining hard at the time—like a burst of
sunshine. He remarked that the twelve
months he stayed here was the happiest
time he ever spent in his life. “I used to
work hard at carpentering,” he said, “at
my lathe. Why, I made a boat during my
imprisonment that gained a prize at an
Exhibition, and has sinced drowned a man.”
It seems funny to be occupying the same
sitting-room as “G.R.” whom we often
visited when he was here, and not to see
the old familiar lathe by the window, and
George Richard turning wonderful articles
in gun-metal as if his very life (not to say
living—which sounds the same, but which
isn't) depended on it. Mr. Dibbs took his
incarceration—as we hope to take ours—
philosophically. And when in prison he
was in great request. People thought noth-
ing of coming down hundreds of miles from
the country just to hear him swear at Shep-
herd. There was a melodious ring in
his voice at those times, which fascinated
the auditor. And his phenomenal com-
mand over the British anathema was
the subject of much envy in the
upper circles. When he was at his
best, breathless crowds used to con-
gregate under the Forbes-street wall and
while listening in an entranced silence
to the rhythmic sounds, vaguely wondered in
what pa,t ° f the s a ° j the i^pw as
kept.


KENNELLY
THE KINGMAKER
In his hand a small red book
By MICHAEL COLLINS
To a large extent the Australian
Labor party is a collection of
memories. The great weight of
its past hangs heavily upon it. In
Victoria, delegates to conferences of the
ALP meet in the old chamber of the
Trades Hall under the names of the
leaders of the movement for the last
century, all of them written in gold on
the ceiling and walls. That is one reason
why they can never forget. Another
is that some of the most impressive per-
sonalities of the past are still with them
—and above all is Patrick John Kennelly.
These days he only comes in for about
two or three hours in the whole three-
day conference. The door in the corner
to the right of the chairman swings open
and he slips into a seat kept for him
among whichever union delegation he is
on —of late this has been the Australian
Workers’ Union. He sits forward in the
seat and surveys the conference, moving
his enormous bull neck from side to side.
His face is twisted into a smile which is
partly a grimace, made more noticeable
by a large nose and jutting jaw. If he
rises to speak he gets the call almost
automatically. Indeed, the chairman
knows he has come to the conference to
speak rather than to listen. In his hand
he holds a small red book, the Labor
politician’s bible. It is the “Constitution
and Platform of the Australian Labor
Party (Victorian Branch)”. Over the
past 38 years he has practically written it
clause by clause. If conference “plays
up” he can flip it open at will and quote
whichever rule is most appropriate, or
most convenient.
He has a dreadful stammer, and this
is half his secret. Delegates must listen
intently to catch each syllable, if they are
to follow the train of thought. This
partly explains the silence that greets him,
even when he rises to speak in the middle
of a heated and noisy debate. (These
days he only speaks in conference on
controversial matters.) But if you watch
the faces of the delegates, there is some-
thing more. Most will have a half-
smile on their faces. They appreciate
that this is the most pleasurable part
of the conference, not merely because of
the blunt wit of the speaker, but because
of the sheer force of his personality, and
because of all he represents in terms of
the party’s history.
For the delegates know, as they have
known for nearly 40 years (he attended
his first conference at the age of 19),
that they are listening to the most able,
ruthless, and likeable fixer to come out
of Victorian Labor politics. He is also
one of the most courageous and tena-
cious men to have mastered the Labor
machine, and, even if Mr Bob Brebner
and others in Victoria today consider
him to be a “mongrel,” they know his
bite is even worse than his stutter, and
they respect him for it.
In a strange way he can be called a
charismatic politician. He can have an
extraordinary affect on a public meeting
or on hardened political audiences. In
1947 when the Victorian Upper House
refused Supply to the Cain Government
and precipitated an election in the middle
of the great strikes and the bank nation-
alisation controversy, Kennelly was in
Eire, visiting relatives. He made a drama-
tic trip home, appeared suddenly in the
party room, and was greeted with
hysterical cheers from tough and ruth-
less politicians, who had already dis-
covered they could not organise an elec-
tion campaign without him.
■Oatrick John was born in a hotel in
L the Victorian mining town of Wal-
halla, and was brought up in the Irish-
Catholic-Labor atmosphere that charac-
terised the early decades of this century.
He joined the ALP office as a clerk in
1924, when he was aged just 21. By 1927
he was organising secretary and ulti-
mately rose (1947) to become, simul-
taneously, State and Federal secretary of
the ALP. At the same time he held two
Ministries in the Cain Labor Government
of that year —Public Works and Electrical
Undertakings.
Since the late ’thirties he has been a
central figure in the three key struggles
for power that have directed the course
of Labor history over the past thirty
years. The first period covers the ’thirties
and early 'forties when, along with Mr
Vic Stout, Mr Arthur Calwell and Mr
Dinny Lovegrove, he helped hold the
line against the penetration of the ALP
by the Communist party. The second
struggle commenced in the mid-‘forties
and went to the mid-’fifties when he
fought the Industrial Group apparatus
almost single-handed, and the third dates
from his decision to destroy the present
Victorian executive.
In 1937 the communists and their
allies gathered 20 per cent, of the vote in
the State Conference of the ALP. The
“Communist Review" openly announced
who they were—“ Clothing Trades Union,
Tanners, Tramways, Locomotive Engine
Drivers, Miners, Postal Workers, Plum-
bers, Agricultural Implement Makers,
Bendigo branch of the Bakers, and the
following electoral organisations— Flem-
ington, Oakleigh, St Kilda, Upper Yarra,
Swan Hill, Eaglehawk, Bendigo,
Williamstown, Toorak.”
Within two years they obtained just
under 50 per cent, of the Trades Hall
Council vote, and their position within
the ALP Conference, which had a differ-
ent method of representation, was even
better. In this period it was customary to
re-elect party officials annually, and at the
1942 conference the extreme Left made
their grab for total power. Mr Don
MacSween of the Clothing Trades Union
(he sits today on the Victorian Central
Executive) nominated against Kennelly,
who would have lost if 8 delegates out of


220 had changed their minds. It was no
accident that the Ironworkers’ Union and
the Munitions Workers’ Union were sus-
pended from affiliation to the party in
that year. Within 12 months the rules
were altered and officials no longer
faced annual elections. It would be true
to say that only such ruthlessness on the
part of Kennedy and others prevented
Victorian Labor following the then NSW
branch under the sway of communist
leadership.
It would not be true to say (as Mr
B. A. Santamaria certainly believes) that
Kennedy was purely an opportunist
machine politician. He certainly had
associations with some of the seamy
activities of Mr John Wren, but even
communist Frank Hardy in “Power
Without Glory” is forced to grudgingly
acknowledge his basic loyalty to the
Labor party above ad else.
“Kelleher [Kennedy] was not a West
[Wren] man pure and simple. Some-
where behind his wad of cynical roguish-
ness lay a spark of solidarity.”
More impartial commentators would
suggest that within Kennedy the solida-
rity impulse was more than a mere spark.
If he is to be categorised at ad he must
be placed together with such men as
Mr J. Ferguson (NSW) or Mr E. Reece
(Tasmania) or Mr F. Walsh (SA). These
men were Chifley’s men and if one were
to seek for a lable to fit those who
belonged to neither the communist Left
nor the sectarian Right, then, trite as it
may sound, they can only be described as
being in the Chifley mould.
Many of Kennedy’s Left-wing crfiics
forget that he told the Interdominion
Conference of Labor parties at Toronto
in 1947 that he hoped Labor would
nationalise iron and steel after the banks
were dealt with. Nor is the close per-
sonal link between Chifley and Kennedy
remembered. He certainly felt genuine
anguish when the great leader died, and
in a rare but significant emotional out-
burst he said: “I looked upon Mr
Chifley as a father.” Indeed part of his
obsessive opposition to the Industrial
Group elements in the party seemed to
stem from their attacks upon ad the
things that Chifley was associated with—
the bank policies and the stand against
the Anti-communist Bid for instance.
AT a time when Vic Stout was ringing
Mr N. Lauritz or Santamaria once a
week asking for help to control the Trades
Had, Kennedy commenced a one-man
campaign against them. It was to be
the greatest struggle of his career and in
it he needed ad his courage and tenacity.
The defeat of Kennedy in the pre-
selection ballot for the Upper House seat
of Melbourne West in 1952 can safely be
described as the beginning of the end of
the “Movement” in the ALP. His ability
to win pre-selection ballots is famous as
are the allegations continually made
about abuses. His first attempt to enter
State Parliament was when he contested
the Labor endorsement for the seat of
Doutta Galla (now held by Jody Jack
Tripovich) in 1937. Percy Clarey had the
backing of the entire Trades Hall who
were anxious for more “industrial” can-
didates to be elected. Kennedy bucked
the machine, ran for the position and
came in with a two-to-one majority.
Clarey then claimed to have evidence
that at least 4 girls had voted thirteen
times each in the ballot. Pressure was
brought to bear from the Trades Had
and Kennedy withdrew, only to follow
Clarey to the State House three years
later from the equally safe seat of Mel-
bourne West. From here he came to
dominate the party completely, so much
so that he was among the first of the
ALP politicians approached by “Move-
ment” representatives with inducements
to come over to their camp. He rejected
their offers and their threats and to this
day Santamaria has failed to answer his
challenge to publicly discuss who was on
the delegation and what took place at the.
meeting. To Kennedy the “CA boys”
(Catholic Action) represented an alien
tradition and to work with them was a
breach of solidarity.
In the late ‘forties he stood practically
alone in State Conference attacking the
recognition of Industrial Groups. At one
conference he could find only four or five
supporters out of hundreds. In 1949 the
“Movement” had complete control and
Kennedy resigned as State secretary.
Within 12 months the Victorian execu-
tive had passed a censure motion against
his administration as Federal secretary. A
“Movement” official, Mr Bert Bailey,
began to organise his branches, and in
1952 contested the Melbourne West pre-
selection against him. Bailey was secre-
tary of the Building Trades Industrial
Group and had the active support of the
local Catholic Church leaders. He
defeated Kennedy by 300 votes out of
2400.
The real reason why he won was that
his son, young Neil Kennedy, had fallen
from a truck and died some weeks before.
For Kennedy, a man intensly devoted to
his family, this was a double blow ; for
Neil was the twin brother of John
Kennedy, who had died of illness some
eight years before. He simply could not
fight an election under these circum-
stances. The by-election was important
because it represented the “Movement”
declaration of war against ad Catholics
who would not toe the line. Already
Calwell had been removed from the
Federal executive and had been defeated
in a ballot to select a delegate to con-
ference (he came, nevertheless, from a
union). Bailey publicly announced that
he would not have contested the fight if
Kennedy had supported the Industrial
Groups. The war was on for keeps.
Within a month Kennedy and a close
co-worker (also a Catholic), Mr J. Devlin,
were removed from the Victorian execu-
tive, and his enemies then moved
for his final position—the F:deral secre-
taryship. It was about this time that
the South Australian ALP banned Indus-
trial Groups and this seemed to co-
incide with a visit made to that State by
the Federal secretary. In August of the
same year Devlin and Kennedy contested
the Senate preselection ballot and both
won in spite of the fact that Love-
grove's official ticket placed them at the
bottom of the 20 candidates contesting.
After this the Senate preselection system
was (understandably) changed. (Ironic-
ally enough, Kennedy had recommended
that it should be changed as far back as
1934 when he controlled the head office.)
In an attempt to overthrow 27 years
of precedent, the Victorians then tried
to move that the office of Federal secre-
tary should not be held by a Member of
Parliament. By now “toppling Kennedy”
had become somewhat of a national
game and this latest move was another
attempt to finally destroy him. He won
seven votes to five. The line-up is inter-
esting in view of subsequent develop-
ments. For Kennedy: Western Aus-
tralia (Chamberlain, Beasley), South Aus-
tralia (Walsh, Cameron) and Queensland
(Boland, Schmella) plus Reece from Tas-
mania. With the Right wing were NSW


(Kenny and Colbourne) and Victoria
(Lovegrove and Stout — yes, Stout ) and
Cole from Tasmania. Lovegrove and
Evatt then moved to replace Kennedy
with Colbourne. In July, 1953, Kennedy
was sacked, Cole broke discipline from
Tasmania and some AWU elements also
swung (this was during Mr Tom
Dougherty’s brief honeymoon with the
“Movement”). It seemed to be all over.
The kingmaker was finished.
VJGithin 24 hours Mr H. O. (Bramah)
Davis, the powerful Federal presi-
dent and Victorian State secretary of the
AWU, issued his declaration of war.
“Outside influences” had sacked Kennedy,
he said, and this was a “backward step.”
Kennedy pleaded to be allowed to remain
in office for three months until after the
1953 election. The victors, satisfied they
had finally destroyed his last base of
power, were foolishly generous.
Within three months Cole was re-
moved from the Tasmanian delegation,
Schmella returned on to the Queensland
delegation, and Western Australia was or
ganised solidly. The previous decision
was described as unconstitutional (“You
c-c-can b-bend the rules, brother, but
d-d-don’t break them”). Lovegrove re-
signed from the presidency to be replaced
by Reece, and Schmella became acting
secretary and then succeeded Kennelly
when he finally resigned in 1954. The
“Chifley” men had won.
In caucus Kennelly moved with Cal-
well and they mobilised between them
over 40 votes out of 78. They became
deputy leaders in both Houses. Kennelly
was moving back. For 12 months he
moved through Victoria organising
branches and delegates, persuading
unions, cajoling, arguing and pressuring.
When, finally, 27 unionu met and moved
(on the motion of Davis) for Federal in-
tervention, it was expected that Kennelly,
Clarey and other moderates would
dominate the next executive.
Lovegrove made the first mistake. As
the price for his acquiescence in the
split he demanded that Kennelly be
dropped. Pat got wind of this and lined
up with Stout who was by this time the
leader of the Trades Hall militants.
Thus, out of the new executive, it was
the Stouts and McNoltys who eventually
emerged as the dominant personalities.
“Newsweekly” always used to print
“Numbers” as a middle name when re-
ferring to Kennelly. Pat knows numbers,
and thinks in terms of numbers.
Perhaps one of the most famous
Kennelly incidents followed on one of
the perennial struggles for power around
Richmond. In 1935 two candidates, Light-
foot and Cotter, ran for preselection. It
was said that Cotter (Kennelly’s man)
had lost. Pat went to Richmond, picked
up the ballot box and announced he was
taking it back to head office to put it
in a safe place for the count. The opposi-
tion had so little faith in his ability to
count correctly that they removed the
box from him at gunpoint in the street.
A new ballot was then held and naturally
Pat won —by three votes (in 800).
He made his most famous pronounce-
ment on political philosophy in 1950,
when he said —“It’s always b-best to
have the 1-logic and the n-numbers, but
if you c-can't have both, then g-give me
the numbers any day.” When the num-
bers showed that the extremists of the
Victorian executive were both incompe-
tent and fellow-travelling, and that the
DLP would continue to make ground
after it reversed its initial decline, he
had no hesitation in once more filling the
role of kingmaker.
But by now his health was not the
best; and sectarianism and a peculiar
fellow-travelling mentality seemed to per-
vade the entire Victorian party. Those
who did not accept this simply left the
party—to the tune of 9000 since the 1958
Peace Congress. The systematic use of
pulpits and widespread smear campaigns
by the breakaways only consolidated the
process. Federal intervention was once
again, in Kennelly’s calculation, the only
hope. Again it was in alliance with Reece,
McKenna, Davis and the AWU, the
South Australians and, until his death,
Schmella, that he moved. Chamberlain
won the Federal secretaryship only be-
cause a Left-wing Tasmanian delegate,
F. Taylor, repeated Cole’s performance
and broke discipline (and was similarly
removed from the position of delegate
within a few months).
Now that the Federal election result
has highlighted the Victorian tragedy, so
that everyone realises what needs to be
done, he is slackening off. It is Davis and
the AWU, with an extraordinary col-
lection of diverse allies (including many
Left-wingers), who will settle the hash of
the Melbourne junta, for Kennedy will
not move unless his health is 100 per
cent., and he is unlikely to seek election
to any future executive for this reason.
'T'oday, too many interpret this to mean
that the kingmaker is in permanent
retirement. Forces as diverse as the fol-
lowers of Mr Ned Ward and Mr Fred
Daly are lining up within caucus to
settle old scores. Yet his courage and
ability have not deteriorated and he will
in the next Labor Government cer-
tainly be a Minister (perhaps Civil
Aviation).
He was one of the few Catholics who
remained unmoved at the personal
and political pressure emanating from
churches after the split. He refused to
follow many other Catholic ALP men
away from their suburban churches into
the anonymous congregations of the city
Church of St. Francis and St. Patrick’s
Cathedral.
Fie recently survived one of the most
systematic Press campaigns ever launched
by the Melbourne “Herald” against
any individual. Kennedy is, above all, a
“character”, and one of his idiosyncracies
is his obsessive love of Albert Park. It
is quite common for politics to overlap
with sport, and not only where horse-
racing is concerned, and in Melbourne
especially, where Australian Rules Foot-
ball clubs are involved. But no other
politician of national importance is so
completely identified with the adminis-
tration of a single park. He was once
decribed as the “Deputy leader of the
ALP in the Senate and the Ranger of
Albert Park.” (His friends sometimes
call him the bushranger of Albert Park.)
He appointed himself to the chairman-
ship of its trustees when he was a Min-
ister in the Cain Government of 1947.
Since that time, his committees have
spent £750,000 on improvements, and on
the construction of basketball, badmin-
ton, and table tennis centres. He seems
intent on building major Soccer and
Rugby fields and is also intent on getting
the once-famous motor races going
again. Motor racing at Albert Park used
to draw tens of thousands of people,
overseas drivers, and £4900 income per
weekend of racing. This is more than the
Federal Government pays per year for
nearly 50 acres of land. The Melbourne
“Herald” undertook a major campaign
six years ago to preserve the “people's
parks” from such encroachments of com-
mercial ventures. Little old ladies in ad-
joining rest homes who could not sleep
because of the noise of the motors were
photographed. Scores of readers had
letters published congratulating the
“Herald” for its principled stand. The
“Herald” won that battle. Kennedy tore
down the fences, ended the races, and
then fired barrages in the Senate at the
Press monopolies which dominate the
country, paying special attention to the
combine controlled by the Melbourne
“Herald”.
In 1961 the battle was joined again.
Several trees were cut down on a nature
strip adjoining Albert Park, where a
£200,000 bowling alley was to be erec-
ted —this was to net £SOOO income each
year for the trustees. Kennedy's nephew
was appointed as secretary to the man-
agement of the park. The “Herald”
shuddered ad over its front pages for
weeks, until Premier-farmer Henry
Bolte appointed Mr O. Gillard, QC, to
investigate the affairs of the park.
Gidard’s report was a complete vic-
tory for the Senator. Nothing was wrong
with the appointment and the park was


managed extremely well. Kennedy loves
his park. At times he can be seen per-
sonally changing the hoses on the lawns
and he spends an enormous amount of
time checking soil reports and studying
methods of removing weeds from the
lake. Over the years there have been
rumours as to firms tendering for tractor
supply contracts with Government de-
partments being persuaded to test their
rival vehicles doing construction work
on the park, and of surplus soil from
construction sites being left on conveni-
ent spots around the park. When he is
finished, the ‘"bushranger of Albert Park”
will have left one of the finest sporting
parks in the world as his monument.
Tn his novel, “The Last Hurrah,” Edwin
A O'Connor lays out a study of the
politics of the Boston Irish. The central
character is Frank Skeffington. the Mayor
He knows every key figure in the city, he
controls the ward bosses, uses Govern-
ment appointments for his own purposes,
in short is all we associate with the term
“machine politician” or the “Tammany 11
style of politics. Kennedy is one of
Australia’s Frank Skeffington’s (“Old
Smoothie,” the late Mr Joe Cahill, was
another). He represents an entire era
of Australian politics and is a perfect
expression of the traditional style of poli-
tics associated with urban society, especi-
ally where minority communities such as
the Irish are concerned.
Yet Kennedy is one of the most forth-
right and honest men in Australian
politics. He makes no secret where he
stands or what he wants done. He
possesses an unusual kind of integrity.
During the Sales Tax Bill debate in the
Senate in December, 1960, for example,
he did a thing most Parliamentarians
would never do unless under pressure
—he made public apology to Senator
Wright for having said things that would
have “hurt” him: he had called him the
“Liberace” of the Senate. The apology
was complete and unequivocal and came
from a man who has always said what
he thought and apologised if he were
grie ously wrong.
His period in the ALP in the 'thirties
was the era of the great struggles between
the liquor interests and the wowsers,
between Trades Hall factions, between
the local machines like that of John
Wren, and between the parliamentary
factions which, in that time of minority
Government and changing alliances,
demanded that men like Kennedy must
make the decisions.
Today the era of the ward heelers is
over and Kennedy is one of its last
great men still with us. The public
relations men are replacing the fixers
and it is still debatable whether this is a
change for the better or the worse.
THE WHITE KNIGHTS
Sir Roy v Sir John in the Rhodesian Crisis
Exposing a stout pair of railway-
man’s braces, Sir Roy Welensky
has lately been seen with Mr
Duncan Sandys, the U.K. Com-
monwealth Relations Secretary, on a
Rhodesian garden path. The braces are a
part of Welensky’s image as a man of the
people and he is not in the least ashamed
of showing them off. Sir Roy has never
been a snob. He likes to remind people
that he has risen to eminence as Prime
Minister of the Central African Federa-
tion from the shuddering footplates of
Rhodesian Railways.
Sir John Moffat is quite another sort
of Rhodesian knight. On the remote
farm he shares with his two brothers at
Mkushi, in Northern Rhodesia, visitors
may expect to find him informally
dressed. In most other settings he prefers
a quiet seemliness. If Mr Sandys had
troubled to visit him in Lusaka, where he
is the senior elected Minister in the
Northern Rhodesian Government and
lives next door to the Governor, he
would probably not have been dis-
covered with his jacket off.
These two white knights are both
deeply involved in Central African events,
now moving rapidly towards a crisis.
The British Government last week
announced further changes in the
division of political power between whites
and blacks in Northern Rhodesia. If
there is to be a small black majority in
the Legislative Council, Sir John will be
pleased, but not Sir Roy.
In spite of many discouragements,
Welensky is still determined to keep his
Federal Parliament under white control,
even if Moffat’s Lusaka turns black. The
methods Sir Roy is likely to use are sure
to aggravate a personal conflict whose
prolonged bitterness has so far been
obscured by Sir lohn’s quietness and Sir
Roy’s shrewd restraint.
It would be difficult to imagine two
knights with less in common. Both are
in their middle fifties. Both are happily
married and have settled families. Both
have deep roots in South-Central Africa.
Beyond that, similarity ends.
Sir John belongs to a special kind of
Rhodesian dynasty, reaching back beyond
the days of organised white settlement
north of the Limpopo. People say that
his missionary family origins have
given him an exaggerated notion of him-
self as a man of destiny in Central African
affairs and explain the liberal paternalism
of his attitude towards African ambitions.
Certainly he must have inherited feelings
of responsibility becoming more painful
for a sensitive man to bear as the battle
to retain or discard white supremacy has
grown more violent.
Sir Roy’s links with the Rhodesian past
are vaguer and less dramatic. But his
spiritual roots seem to lie in the rough and
sturdy ranks of the Pioneer Column
rather than among the missionary idealists
or with Rhodes and his imperial mani-
pulators.
By training. Sir John is what used to
be called in Britain a natural leader. If
Rhodesia has a class elite within the
aristocracy to which all whites auto-
matically belong, then he is in it. He
went to the South African equivalent of
an English public school —the Grey High
School in Port Elizabeth—where no
doubt he absorbed that Old Cape
Liberalism on which it was at one time
supposed that the political life of
Rhodesia would be founded. Later he
went to Glasgow University, as a good
Scot should. The result is a quiet, urbane
and cultivated person, the acme of that
Civilised Man whom Sir Roy would like
to see in sole charge of Federal affairs.
Sir John is tall, slender and slow-moving
and retains without ordination inherited
attributes of the clergy.
For Sir Roy there was no such up-
bringing. His Afrikaner mother and
Lithuanian-Jewish father came into
Rhodesia from South Africa by ox-wagon
in a forlorn attempt to escape from
poverty. Roy—actually, Roland —was
their thirteenth child. He was sent to a
school for poor whites in Salisbury,
derided by the offspring of the better off.
Through the Depression years he was a
bitter and hard-up worker. In fact, he
first went into politics, not to bolster up
white supremacy, but to knock down the
privileged white elite to which he thought
Moffat and others belonged. His enemy
in those days was white vested interest.
It remained so until —as political leader
of the settlers in Northern Rhodesia—
he first attacked and then reached a
triumphant settlement with the British
South Africa Company, holders of the


Pv
.rffA
m
ymm
*&*iSSSt£k
mm
BSSSSS
mm
y*v
5/
\' r **±".<A
b< *4 S
3kßsl
Safeaaa
Sis
HBd
kiii
PR,,—
ipM^S
R**si
wmm
1«
PlßiSjieaa
fe§||
SSssssP
*-m
S»>Stf*ja
ia
SIS:
r**
is
■R
PR
sm**
9%*m
f^mm
7&
WM
ELECTRICITY
a*
THE STATE
ELECTRICITY
COMMISSION
OF QUEENSLAND
LOAN
IS NOW OPEN
£5.7.6%
o
GOVERNMENT
6, TO, 20, or 40 years
APPLY NOW through: Commonwealth Trad-
ing Bank: A.N.Z. Bank: Commercial
Banking Co. : Commercial Bank of Australia:
E.S. & A. Bank: Bank of N.S.W. : National
Bank of A’asia: any Stockbroker: any
Regional Electricity Board Office : or
the State Electricity Commission
of Q’ld, 447 Gregory
Terrace, Brisbane.


mineral rights along the Rhodesian
copper belt.
But he drew his political strength from
the white railway-workers’ union, of
which he was a leader at Broken Hiil.
From this experience he also drew that
will to resist black competition which is
still at the heart of racialist sentiment
among white Rhodesian workers who are
most immediately threatened. Welensky
grew into an aggressive, open-air poli-
tical fighter. Though his buik has settled
with the years, he is still a huge man who
even in repose gives an impression of
loudness and power. He is always most
impressive when he hoists up the great
chest he developed as Rhodesian heavy-
weight boxing champion and sets about
those “upstarts,” the leaders of black
nationalism.
On most other subjects he is apt to be
boring. Though latterly—no doubt
under pressure from his public relations
consultants —he has begun to speak of
race partnership in the Federation as
“that great experiment,'’ he has never
made much of it in the past. He thinks
it should be a working partnership from
which the industrious and loyal black man
may hope to draw his graduated econo-
mic i e ward.
Tt is not to be thought that Moffat’s
-*■ different background has been for
him a political advantage. On the
contrary, it has afflicted him with all the
handicaps suffered by liberals in a politi-
cal rough-house. Sir John is excessively
reasonable and has a gentlemanly distaste
for intrigue. The sad truth is that
Africans, while they like and respect him,
sometimes call him “Madala” —the Old
Man Who Means Well.
But his quiet speeches have been among
the most intelligent, the most deadly in
their exposure of the tricks and tech-
niques of white supremacy, ever heard
in Rhodesia. And in 1959 he finally
marched out into the election battle as
leader of a new Liberal party. Today,
by a political accident —the withdrawal
of Welensky’s northern men in pique
from the Government —he finds himself
confronting Sir Roy in the impending
crisis.
Africans devoted to Sir John argue
that he and others like him who truly
recognise the white man’s obligation,
inherited from the past, should now
identify themselves openly with the
militant blacks. They suspect that this
is now more than ever necessary because
Sir Roy is being presented, especially in
America, not as a white leader with his
feet planted to resist the modern black
tide, but as a stubborn though still lov-
able old cuss deeply fond of Africans and
roses.
MADAME TROTSKY'S
BURIAL
FROM KEN WHITE IN MEXICO CITY
The final curtain call of one of the
most dramatic and macabre
stories in history was rung down
in Mexico City last week. The
ashes of the once-beautiful Natalia
Sedova, wife of former Bolshevik leader
Leon Trotsky, were placed beside the
remains of her husband. Sealed in a
small ebony urn, the ashes were laid
reverently in a tiny mausoleum in the
grounds of the grim, fortress-like home
on the outskirts of Mexico City where
Trotsky was brutally murdered 22 years
ago.
Only Trotsky’s grandson, the grand-
son’s wife and a few close friends
were present at the ceremony. As
the short service came to an end,
the Russian flag was lowered to
half-mast over the simple tomb, its only
adornment a hammer and sickle carved
into the white cement. The ashes of
Madame Trotsky, who died in France
last month while visiting friends, were
flown from Paris to Mexico City. For
a week the urn stood on a table in her
bedroom before being interred in the
mausoleum. On the front of the urn
was a plaque bearing the short inscrip-
tion : “Madame Trotsky, maiden name
Natalia Sedova, 1882-1962.”
I asked an old woman who owned a
small shop opposite the house in Viena
Street, Coyoacan, whether she ever met
Madame Trotsky. She said she did not
know her personally, but often saw
her sweeping the front pavement, in-
variably dressed in a black frock and a
large sombrero. “She was always elegant
and carried herself erect. But she always
had difficulty getting servants to work in
the house after her husband was assas-
sinated. The house became taboo and
that was why she had to sweep the
paths herself.”
The story of Trotsky’s murder by the
Stalinist-trained spy, Jacques Mornard,
has probably been written a thousand
times. It was on August 20, 1940, that
Mornard, who had been ingratiating
himself with Trotsky’s friends for over
two years, entered the villa carrying a
heavy coat which concealed an alpine
axe. He had asked Trotsky to look over
an article he had written. As the old
Bolshevik leader bent down to read,
Mornard pulled out the axe and struck
him on the skull. Although the blade
penetrated three inches into Trotsky’s
brain, he did not die until the following
day. And Mornard went to prison for
20 years.
Trotsky’s grandson, Vsievolod Sedof,
who lives in an annex to the villa with his
wife and five children, told me he re-
membered the old man vividly. Sedof,
who bears a close facial resemblance to
Trotsky, was not reluctant to talk about
him. “He was a man of tremendous
vitality and always very sure of himself,”
he said. “He had an impetuous nature
and a brilliant mind, but was extremely
interested in people.”
I asked Sedof if he himself was in-
terested in politics. “Who isn't? But
I'm only interested in an amateur way,”
he replied. “It's ironical,” he added, “that
the Russians are now discovering that
Trotsky’s politics were right. But they are
all gangsters in the Kremlin. The
question of Stalin's fall from grace was
only superficial. There is no real change
in the Government’s police.”
Sedof said he planned to make the
old house a museum. “I got the idea
when I visited the Mozart Museum in
Salzburg, Austria. Why not a Trotsky
museum? After all, Trotsky was mucn
more important than Mozart.”
Did he know what had happened to
the assassin, Mornard, since he went to
Prague after his release from prison?
“There are two rumors,” Sedot said.
“One is that he was shot as a Stalinist.
The other is that he is head of a spy
school in Russia.”
Meanwhile, Trotsky’s study, where he
was mortally wounded, seems as if he
left it only yesterday. Books in English
and Russian fill the wooden book-
shelves around the walls. The old desk
is closed but on the tables there are
books and magazines which appear to
have been put down momentarily.
Trotsky’s own collection of documents
lies open. There are thousands of papers
carefully put between home-made fol-
ders. In Natalia’s room there is a rug
made of palm leaves. Two tables stand
beside the bed. On one is a serape on
which stood the urn. On the other are
magazines, a notebook and a small
costurero or sewing basket. As I walked
back into the garden, Trotsky’s five small
great-granddaughters were playing
around the tomb. They rushed up to me
and shyly asked if I had any Aus-
tralian coins.


MORRIS WEST AT HOME
Black Coffee, White Rum
The study to which he led us in his
Pittwater Avalon home is
modestly oblong, plainly furnished
and enlivened by some attractive
prints on the walls and an exotic if
fading pink and gold wallpaper at one
end. For the rest, a desk, chairs, type-
writer and bookcase clutter. “You've
struck a bad night,” he said, “Fm com-
pletely out of brandy or liqueurs. How
about a big pot of coffee between us and
some white rum?” The rum proved
excellent as he predicted. “Queensland,”
he said, “and all right.” He is bigger
than he used to be. ruddier and more
successful. He sails a Bluebird on the
Pittwater and a small inflatable Japanese
craft for his three children. His eyes
gleam with confidence behind his spec-
tacles and one forgets the variety of his
experience—the solid lad who joined the
Christian Brothers at 14, was dismissed
coldly at 26 with £2O when he failed to
take final vows (“The hierarchy of the
Order don't forgive easily”). He went
from a monastery into the AIF. “They
sent me straight to Darwin,” he says
disgustedly. Then a variety of jobs. He
was a successful PR man for some lime, a
fact which some of his critics harp on.
Later he was down and out in London
and Austria trying to support a wife and
pay off mountainous debts. He once
knocked back an urgently needed job
at £l2OO a year on his wife’s advice to
continue writing. He gets begging
letters these days, some from artists wTo
think that the successful should support
the unsuccessful and this angers him. But
he's in the big money by international
writing standards and is proud of it.
Australia is home, of course, and that
means a great deal, but it disappoints him
as it does other returning Australian
artists. “T wonder what Patrick White
really thinks of the place?” But he
sees some hope in the youth of the
country. That very day, he said, he had
addressed some hundreds of students in
Sydney University’s Great Hall. “I talked
to them confidentially and told them what
I thought and something about the artist
and his problems and something about
the ultimate mysteries with which I am
concerned. And something about history.
History is a great sewage. At the finish
they applauded me for eight minutes. I
was almost moved to tears.” West is
very concerned with what he calls ulti-
mate mysteries—“birth, life, death, the
act of love. These are the real mysteries.
Humans are mysteries like God's plan for
them.
“We must all come to terms
with life and its implications. People lie
awake at night with gripes in the spiritual
guts because nothing has any meaning.
Take poor Ernest Hemingway. Every-
body turned away decently at the thought
of his suicide but everybody knew. You
chase things for their own sake and look
what happens—bullfighting is finished,
big game hunting is finished, deep sea
fishing is finished, the sexual act is no
longer any good. Then you take down an
expensive shot gun and blow your head
off.”
Where was his next novel situated? He
grinned. “Not telling,” he answered, “I
can't. You can say it isn't in Italy. It’s
more universal. See all those books in
that case over there? I've read them all
in the last six months.” He pulled down
a copy of Mumford’s “The City in
History.” “Fascinating book.” He
put on his spectacles and read pieces
out loud. He makes a good lecturer with
his didactic capacity to project his voice,
personality and even his body a little
larger than life size. “Here's a good bit!”
he says, his eyes gleaming with pleasure,
his voice rising here and sinking there to
a loud whisper. He is much influenced
(for how long one wonders?) by Pere
Teilhard de Chardin, the celebrated
Jesuit palaeontologist who was involved
with the discovery of Peking Man and
died in 1955. He quotes him in what is
for a casual evening large, quite indiges-
tible chunks, neatly typed and stapled in a
red covered loose leaf note book. They
will one way or another go into his
novel. He works hard on his books.
“For ‘Daughter of Silence’ I corresponded
for months with Julius Stone.
Hard work has, of course, paid off.
Morris West is more than a best seller. In
the United States especially he is a
prominent personality. “They’re good
over there,” he says, “they give you a
chance. If you’ve got it they recognise it
and take you in. In London it’s never
quite that. Circles and circles, you know.
But in New York I was in demand for
1V shows, personal appearances and
lectures. I went on lack Paar's show and
on Dave Garroway’s. I used to speak
without inhibition on current issues—you
know, the lohn Birch Society, the Vigil-
antes and the Adam Shelters. It was a
thrilling, humbling experience. Not like
here where everybody is frightened to say
anything. Compare that with the ABC
and its timid panels and five pounds
dinners before the show begins. Do you
know what our entry in the Cannes Film
Festival is? Henry Lawson's ‘Song of the
Streets.’ A hundred years out of date.
That after ‘La Dolce Vita’ for God’s
sake.” But New York we prompted?
“I'll tell you. I spent £15,000 in
America last year in a calculated gamble.
I spared nothing. I made a million dollars
worth of publicity for my publishers.
I've ensured my market. 1 wouldn’t like
to live in New York but at least Fm in
there. When the play was going people
in shops, in taxi cabs would reach out
and shake my hand. Restaurant owners
sent us good luck cards. It was a tremen-
dous experience. We even moved into
the St Regis for one glorious week. It
cost about 80 dollars a day but it was
worth it. Besides I owed it to my wife to
have one week of pure fun. The play
folded, of course, but that is a long and
difficult story about casting and direction
which I'm simply not going into. It’s
past history.” A final thought struck us
and we voiced it. Was he worried at all
by inevitable critical comparisons of
“The Devil’s Advocate” with some of
Graham Greene's novels? He looked
thoughtful. “The trouble with Graham
is that he feels so guilty all the time.
That's why his characters fall apart.”
Outside the steep garden fell toward the
water. Near jungle encroached. We
walked up steep steps to my car on the
road above. It was a pleasant spectacle.
"Friendly garden,” he said.
P.D.H.


FORUM
NORTHERN DEVELOPMENT:
WILL IT PAY?
rj'HERE has recently been a marked, resurgence of interest in the develop-
ment of Northern Australia comparable to that which occurred towards
the end of World War 11. The events of the past three months suggest that
the development of this part of the continent may become an increasingly
important political issue. The pressures for the development of this area are
such that the economic realities of the situation unfortunately tend to be
largely disregarded.
T 2 ven the Forster Committee, appointed
as it was to survey the prospects of
promoting agricultural settlement in the
Northern Territory “on an economic
basis” saw fit in its report explicitly to
reject conventional economic criteria in
making its recommendations.* The
committee further refused to face up
to what is probably the most important
consideration in determining the econo-
mics of Northern development—whether
investment in other parts of the Aus-
tralian continent would not bring greater
benefit to the nation than equivalent
investment in the North.
What motivates Australians to want
to hasten the development of the North
is imperfectly revealed. General argu-
ments for regional development are often
inseparable from those directed primarily
at the rural side. Strategic or defence
reasons stemming from World War II
experiences undoubtedly are important,
though one often wonders whether the
proponents of this point of view have
fully adjusted their thinking to the post-
Sputnik nuclear age. Also, the urge to
develop the country which has long been
an essential trait of the Australian
national character is still a force in poli-
tical thinking about the North. Associ-
ated with this national urge to develop
the continent, and sometimes almost
indistinguishable from it, are two othei
points of view. One, which can be
called the pioneering approach, is
characterised by a belief that it is in
some sense sinful not to utilise land for
productive purposes and that public
investment decisions should simply be
made on the basis of their potentialities
for utilising to the limit the physical
resources available. This approach
may have been satisfactory in
the last century, but it is no longer
'T'HIS article is condensed from
a recent address delivered by
Professor K. O. Campbell, Profes-
sor of Agricultural Economics at
the University of Sydney to the
Australian Economic Society in
Melbourne.
applicable in the latter half of the
20th century.
A modern-day version of this thesis
propounded by some agronomists is to
the effect that research activities should
be intensified in an effort to allow land
to be used productively almost irres-
pective of the costs such use entails.
They ignore the fact that markets
are important ; that manpower and
more especially capital are the
scarce factors, not land; and that
gross returns per acre are not a satis-
factory indicator of the economic produc-
tivity of land.
A nother variant of the compulsive urge
to develop the North at all costs stems
from the comparison of the relative
degree to which different countries are
endowed with natural resources, coupled
often with a comparison of relative
population densities. To those who
believe that failure to utilise r -urces is
apt to stimulate aggression by less well-
endowed powers, this statistical exercise
has clearcut implications for a country
like Australia with a low overall man-
land ratio. Other students of these
statistics talk instead of “the inescapable
moral obligations of the nation to
utilise to the full all parts of the continent
that are capable of human exploitation”
or describe land utilisation on an exten-
sive basis as “an embarrassment in the
field of international politics.”
The premier economic argument for
Northern rural development is that
based on estimates of Australia’s long-
term balance-of-payments situation. But,
however great the country’s need to tap
fresh sources of foreign exchange, it does
not, in itself, justify indiscriminate rural
development in all parts of the continent.
The North’s contribution to improving
Australia’s export potential might more
rationally lie in the exploitation of oil
and mineral resources rather than land
resources.
To a more minor extent, the North’s
contribution to the balance-of-payments
problem is said to lie in the increased
production of import-saving crops. Bat
usually it turns out that the commodities
concerned (peanuts, cotton and tobacco)
are already the subject of subsidy pro-
grammes or home consumption price
schemes, and on present evidence, pro-
duction of these commodities in the
North does not appear to be as economic
as in existing producing areas in Aus-
tralia. But, say the enthusiasts for
Northern rural development, the com-
parative disadvantage of Northern Aus-
tralia relative to overseas competitors
and other Australian producing areas will
be short-lived.
First, it is argued that technological
developments will so enhance the pro-
ductivity of North Australian lands that
they will become competitive with rival
producing areas. This seems to me to
imply a strange notion of technological
stagnation in other producing areas
which is incompatible with reality. In
fact, given the nature of the physical
environment in Northern Australia and
the industries concerned, it is quite
possible that productivity may rise faster
in the more southern producing areas
than in Northern Australia. With the
technical assistance being showered on
underdeveloped tropical countries today
by UN agencies and other sponsors, it
seems to me also possible that the tables'
may well be reversed in an international
context —that the rate of increase in pro-
ductivity in competing countries (e.g.,
Nigeria) may exceed that in Northern
Australia.
The second alleged ground for
optimism is that, as economic growth
proceeds in the underdeveloped countries,
the peoples of those countries will
demand higher living standards and that
as a consequence there will be an upward
pressure on costs and perhaps on com-
modity prices. When one takes into
account possible concurrent technological
* Prospects of Agriculture in the North-
ern Territory. Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia, Department of Territories.
Government Printer. Canberra.


improvements and the seemingly inevit-
able tendency of costs of rural produc-
tion to rise in this country, it would seem
to me rather unwise to attempt to
accelerate the rate of rural development
of the North in anticipation of such an
eventuality occurring.
Tn the third place, it is believed that the
economic as opposed to the physical
disadvantages of rural production in the
North are transitory and will disappear
as development proceeds.
The more specific arguments for the
rural development of Northern Aus-
tralia are based on demand considerations.
There is some examination of potential
commercial markets, but more usually
there is an indiscriminate espousal of the
cause of the Neo-Malthusians. “Popula-
tion pressure in regions to the near-north
of Australia and the need for food
supplies for the projected world popula-
tion increase in the next 25 years make
it essential that Australia should define
its development policy relating to this
[northern] area,” says the Forster Com-
mittee. But, again, why, in the face of
recent evidence of rural productivity
increases, should we be pessimistic about
the ability of rural technological develop-
ments to keep pace with world popula-
tion increases? Is it wise to base an ex-
tensive investment programme on such a
premise? Further, the contribution of
Northern Australia to the world's food
supply is likely to be of marginal
significance.
Reference to the South-East Asian area
itself raises grave doubts about the
imminence of food shortages. Generally
speaking, food production is increasing
substantially faster than population in
this area. As the Forster Committee itself
points out, somewhat inconsistently, the
rate of growth of world rice production
(excluding that of Mainland China) was
double the rate of increase in popula-
tion in the ten-year period ending 1958-59.
More specific analysis of the scope for
commercial market development is
centred mainly on the possible expansion
of existing markets. In the case of rice,
the main source of comfort is the fact
that potential Australian exports would
be small relative to world trade in rice.
On the other hand, the possibility of a
substantial expansion in the demand for
beef in Asian markets seems to be based
on the anticipated increase in the
aggregate demand for food, without any
regard to the relatively high income
elasticity of demand for meat. Optimistic
Australian assessments of the potential
market for meat in Asia contrast rather
markedly with those of overseas
observers.
Looking at the problem solely from
the standpoint of the demand for farm
products, the appropriate course of
action, given such an uncertain future for
world agricultural trade, might be to
treat the potential crop-producing lands
of the North as a contingency reserve to
be tapped, if and when the increased
world demand for food and fibres makes
their utilisation an economic proposition.
The existing rural industries might be
allowed to develop along traditional lines,
but any accelerated intensive settlement
be deferred until the need is evident.
The prospects for sustained economic
growth on the basis of the products of
agriculture (and even mining) are not
bright. In the absence of opportunities
for the development of secondary indus-
tries, investment in tourist promotion,
such as has been initiated during the past
twelve months, is likely to have more of
the magic multiplier qualities for which
“the developers” of the North are looking.
A region whose economic activities
centre around primary production,
unless it has extraordinary comparative
advantages relative to other areas, is likely
to lag behind more diversified regions in
the process of economic growth. I see no
evidence to suggest that the experience of
Northern Australia is going to be very
different to that of comparable regions in
other developed economies. It needs to
be recognised that the failure of this
area to keep pace with the development of
other parts of the Commonwealth may
be due to fundamental economic forces
and not to political neglect. The chances
are that so long as Northern Australia is
dependent on the products of mining and
agriculture for its growth the divergence
between the rate of growth of this region
and that of Southern Australia may
increase rather than grow less.
The agricultural development of
Northern Australia is a vastly different
proposition to rural development
schemes in less developed countries. Agri-
cultural development undertaken in a
normally full-employed economy like the
Australian economy necessitates the
diversion of resources from other nation-
ally important tasks to the project in
question. Consideration of the relative
scarcity of different resources and their
opportunity cost is basic to any sensible
discussion of rural development.
T et us now consider what Government
investment in the rural development
of the North is likely to achieve. This
brings us to the doctrine of the “vicious
circle” which appears to play a dominant
role in the thinking of the Forster Com-
mittee. The committee explains that its
recommended measures “are designed to
break the vicious circle of there being no
industry because there are no facilities,
and there being no facilities because
there is no industry. If the North is to
develop, this circle must be broken by
someone and, if the Government con-
siders the North should be developed, it
seems to us to be a proper function of
Government at this stage to break it.”
Looking through the Forster Com-
mittee Report, it would appear to me that
the committee had in mind at least four
different notions: (1) the necessity to
develop the social overhead capital of the
region ; (2) the possible secondary effects
of any development undertaken ; (3) the
possible realisation of substantial
economies of scale consequent upon
growth and (4) the need for protection
to industries during their period of estab-
lishment —essentially the “infant industry”
argument. In addition, the doctrine of
the vicious circle seems to imply a par-
ticular view of the role of Government
in agricultural development.
The need for Governments to develop
the social overhead capital or infra-
structure of a country or region is well-
recognised in the literature on economic
growth. In particular, the role of the rail-
ways in opening new territories in the
19th century is often cited. Plainly,
with the development of road and air
transportation, private enterprise is not
so dependent on public transport facili-
ties as was true in an earlier period. But,
still, the case for development of a road
network ample to the needs of develop-
ing industries is substantial.
'T'he case for public intervention in the
A creation of processing plants (e.g.,
abattoirs) or service industries (e.g., ferti-
liser plants) is very different. Clearly the
justification for such facilities ultimately
lies in the demand for the final product.
It is therefore not telling the whole story
to say that the cattlegrower will not
expand his production because there are
no export killing works to kill his cattle
and that the works operator will not
erect works because there are not enough
cattle available to justify it. There is
plenty of evidence suggesting that private
enterprise will build facilities of this
kind, if there are reasonable market
prospects for the product in question.
In attempting to justify public invest-
ment in areas such as Northern Aus-
tralia, considerable stress is usually placed
on the secondary or indirect benefits
which are likely to flow from such pro-
jects. Thus it is argued that closer settle-
ment would give rise to service industries
in adjacent towns and this would stimu-
late local population growth and employ-
ment. However, it seems to be generally
accepted now that while a particular
region will undoubtedly derive secondary
benefits from public investment, from a
national point of view the secondary
benefits of development projects can for
the most part be neglected.
The allied question of the importance


of external economies of scale as a justi-
fication for public investment is far from
clear-cut. Much of what has been written
on this subject has reference to the under-
developed areas. The same type of
reasoning is not necessarily applicable to
an undeveloped area in an advanced
economy. The probable extent of genuine
external economies can only be ascer-
tained by a specific examination of the
special conditions in the North which
would give rise to such economies. The
likelihood of substantial external
economies being achieved in Northern
Australia cannot be presumed, just be-
cause it is a relatively undeveloped area.
The Forster Committee envisages Gov-
ernment intervention in the form of
subsidies to various industries, on the
presumption that their costs will eventu-
ally fall and the subsidy will no longer
be necessary. The Forster Committee
claims, I believe unjustifiably, that the
present cost of superphosphate would not
be economically borne by any industry
and that there are not enough farmers
because phosphate is so expensive. It
is difficult to understand how super-
phosphate can be the sine qua non of
agricultural development in the North,
but nevertheless the committee asserts
that “the price of phosphate fertilisers
must be brought more into line with
those in other ports of Australia.. .”
and goes on to state that “it is a common
State function to encourage, by different
means, agricultural production in areas
suffering from disabilities.” But why
should the price of superphosphate be
uniform or nearly so at all Australian
ports as the committee's discussion seems
to imply?
While Government assistance in a
genuine “infant industry” case might well
be justified, it should be ascertained that
the specific disability is genuinely
temporary. Many of the disadvantages of
which the Forster Committee talks, would
seem to me to be permanent features of
the economic environment of the
Northern Territory. It would be absurd
for the Government to attempt to remove
them by subsidy. If it did, the Com-
mittee’s “vicious circles” might be trans-
formed into “vicious drains” on the
public purse.
It should not be concluded from what I
have written that I despair of the
development of Northern Australia.
To an economist, the idea of further
development of the cattle industry—the
industry which above all else has shown
its ability to survive in this area —must
loom large. Apart from that, the con-
tinued development of the mineral
resources of the North would seem
likely to generate more growth for a
given investment and have probably
greater export potential than large scale
agricultural settlement.
LETTERS
A SINNER FROM THE ABC
Sir,
It was an act of great public service
for you to publish part of Dr J. R. Darl-
ing’s address to the New England Uni-
versity conference on Mass Media. His
remarks went almost unnoticed in the
daily Press.
A minority of ABC staff members will
be delighted to learn of their new chair-
man’s enlightened views on the aims
and responsibilities of the ABC. The
majority, who are more interested in
agonizing and meddlesome administra-
tion than in the production of good
quality radio and television programmes,
will be filled with alarm: they, rightly
(we hope), fear a blitz on mediocrity,
from the top to the bottom: they tremble
at any investigation into the staff pro-
motion and appointment scandals of
recent months: they are bewildered and
frightened at the mention of such phrases
as “educating and elevating the taste of
the community,” “ . . . technical experts
and producers on whom we are, or
should be, dependent,” “the main re-
quirement is quality,” .. . the industry
must now be regarded as a profession.”
Who is this man Darling to cause a
ruffle in the comfortable ABC dovecote
of, yes, “bureaucracy, complacency,
favoritism, inefficiency”?
There’s one very important point the
chairman neglected to mention in his
remarks in The Bulletin. Has he yet
had a chance to look at the salaries
offered to his “professional” men, par-
ticularly in such departments as Religion,
Talks, Education, and Music? Has he
compared these salaries to those of, say,
a competent lawyer, a senior journalist,
a doctor, an industrial economist, a
capable schoolmaster? And if the ABC
wants to encourage competent “profes-
sional” men in its ranks, does Dr Darl-
ing want them to remain nonentities,
anonymous administrators with no
thoughts or opinions, the helpless victims
of a bitter anti-Personality Cult in the
national broadcasting system?
These questions must be answered by
the Commission; and it’s therefore very
heartening to know that Dr Darling is
there to help tackle them.
Yours (under the Crimes Act),
ABC EMPLOYEE
(Name and address supplied)
A ustralia
“THE BULLETIN” REVIEWERS
Sir,
Dear, dear, dear! We are surely living
in a marvellous age. Nothing but super-
latives is good enough for current shows
in Sydney and Melbourne.
Kevon Kemp casts all the old musicals
into the dustheap together. One feels
almost guilty for still remembering, with
pleasure, Hayes Gordon in “Kiss Me
Kate,” Gladys Moncrieff in “The Maid
of the Mountains’’ and the charming old
tunes of “The Desert Song.”
This “Oliver!” must be really some-
thing! “Just about the best handling of
acting children we are ever likely to see.
It provides, as well, just about the best
evening of theatre we are likely to see
this decade.” Well, well!
But Bill Hannan, in Melbourne, goes
one better. In the American Dance
Theatre the “bodies are bursting with
soul,” and, yes! “They are the best
theatre we are likely to see for many a
day.” We in Adelaide would bow our
heads in shame, feeling we could never
produce critics to match this, but, of
course, there was Geoffrey Dutton's
review of “The Ham Funeral.” He
referred to a woman who had been
chasing a young man round the table
as falling to the ground, “tragically
unraped.” That will take some beating.
F. H. WILLSON
North Adelaide (S/4)
DEWEY-EYED THEORISTS
Sir,
It is no surprise that your article
“Tasmania Regrets Its Comprehensive
Schools” (Bulletin, February 10) passed
unnoticed here. Like the other monkeys
of some note, the administrative corps
of the Education Department in Tas-
mania prefers to See No Evil and to Hear
No Evil. Nor should it surprise that a
suburban ALP branch rather than the
Tasmanian Teachers’ Federation has felt
so concerned about children's education
that it is now committed to the seeking
of an inquiry into certain aspects of
secondary school education.
Through its peculiar constitution the
Tasmanian Teachers’ Federation is
dominated by headmasters. Teachers
placed in the position that they must
oppose their headmasters at Federation
meetings soon learn that headmasters
have long memories (whatever else they
are short on). In recent years State
school inspectors have —almost to a man
—been chosen from the ranks of the
Federation's executive. Whether this be
by accident or design, it has led to the
executive members having second, third,
fourth and fifth thoughts before doing
anything in the interest of the teachers
if the proposed “anything” would be
frowned upon by “the Department.” In
the eyes of many teachers the Federa-
tion’s leaders are now simply the apolo-
gists of the Education Department: and
while those leaders depend on the good-
will of the Department’s officers for their
promotion there will be no change.
It is with the Federation’s connivance
that the Dewey-eyed theorists have
grafted their social theories to educa-


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
,OSULUVA\ u j
ip PTYLTD
TRADE
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANO FACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOK BINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented Ore
Concentrator has proved over many
years to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin to the
sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting Machines, George
Ellison Switch Gear, etc. Makers of
Classifiers, Water Filters, Steam Valves,
etc.
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your
fancy write to the Manager, who will
quote you a price for the original.
tional ones in the schools: making
Epochs, we call it. There have been the
Area School Epoch, the Modern School
Epoch, the Comprehensive High School
Epoch, the Central Matriculation School
Epoch, all within ten years. What with
Directors of Education wanting some-
thing they’ll be remembered by there’s
no foreseeable end of the Epochs in
front of us.
The plain facts of the matter are, first,
that the administrators and inspectors
within the Tasmanian education system
do not compare in stature or significance
with those similarly placed outside the
State ; second, the majority of Tas-
manian teachers have neither the mini-
mum education nor training needed to
fit them for the teaching profession ;
third, the public has for so long been
fed the pap that Tasmania leads Aus-
tralia (or is it the world?) in many aspects
of education that they believe it. Many
teachers desire to believe it, too.
An examination of the 1961 staffing
of the schools designated State High
schools in, and up to 30 miles from,
Launceston (the second city in Tas-
mania) shows my second assertion to be
woefully true. Of 240 High school
teachers only 89 have the educational
attainment and the three years of satis-
factory service which has won for each
of them a Teacher’s Certificate; only
80 are university graduates. As those 80
graduates are spread over seven High
schools, the “spread” is rather thin in
places, and it is only the internal
examinations which State High schools
practise at Schools Board (“Leaving”)
level that has kept the public thinking
that all is still well. That would be an
illusion even in Cloud-Cuckoo land.
N. MOORE
Launceston ( Tasmania )
SA ARTS INQUIRY
Sir,
When Mr Harris throws mud, some
sticks but much flies back. He made
some vulgar assertions against university
men, but I will not enter a quarrel with
him personally. A reviewer’s opinions are
themselves subject to critical review by
every reader. I will not dispute his per-
sonal privilege of saying what he likes,
as he clearly enough did in the article
headed “A Wild Glance at SA’s Arts
Enquiry” (Bulletin, February 17), with
much enjoyment to himself and perhaps
a few others. Had he consulted me, I
could have pointed out a few other
things that are seriously wrong with the
report, and of which I, as its editor,
was and remain acutely conscious. I do
not agree with what he said, but as it is
plain enough I shall not convince him,
anyway, I shall not labor to do so.
I take a more serious view of the ar-
ticle, regarding it from another point of
view. It seems to me a most unfortunate
omen for the future of critical journalism
in this country if, in a magazine aiming
to be regarded as authoritative, represen-
tative and of national scope, there should
appear a notice of a document decently
prepared and seriously offered, which
fails to give the impression that the re-
viewer has patiently and seriously read
the document or informed himself
thoroughly of its purpose, aim and scope.
That a major review of this kind should
be placed in the hands of a flippant and
careless reviewer, and the result laughed
off by the Editor in a heading which
blandly admits its critical irrespons-
ibility, all for the sake of a good joke
at the expense of the eggheads, is a
matter which gives at any rate the egg-
heads some concern.
Brian Elliott
(Editor,
Report of the Arts Enquiry
Committee for SA)
University of Adelaide
Sir,
“A Wild Glance at SA’s Arts Inquiry”
(Bulletin, February 17) certainly lives up
to its title if inaccuracy is a qualification.
“The country reader has access to
books only through the senile ... sub-
scription libraries,” etc.
They must accept cowboy and
romance novels or lump it—vide Max
Harris.
Prior to leaving SA in 1953 I belonged
to the Country Lending Service of the
Public Library, Adelaide, for which no
fee was charged; books were inter-
changeable promptly ; were carried at a
concession rate by SA Railways; and
the only expense to the borrower was
return freight. Comprehensive cata-
logues of books were forwarded to assist
the reader in selection, and I fail to
recall any cowboy or romance novels
among the thousands of titles. I sub-
scribe to a well-known Adelaide weekly
and note in the current issue that the
service is still available.
T. L. P . BETTISON
Pingelly (WA)
NOLAN THE MYTHMAKER
Sir,
The Bulletin issue of February 10 has
a little error, on page 12, column one.
It says that “the Sydney painter Godfrey
Miller laughingly said to him [Nolan]
‘You’ll finish up painting the Gallipoli
landing’ ”... I did not ever make the
statement and I have never m . Nolan. I
never talk Gallipoli and I certa : ly would
not choose Nolan as depictor of the
happening. Nolan is a showman whereas
the Australian Light Hcrse were not.
GODFREY MILLER
Paddington (NSW)
WHERE EGGHEADS PEEP OUT
Sir,
We would feel that Bill Hannan’s criti-
cism of the Annandale Imitation Realist
Exhibition (Bulletin, February 24) was
a legitimate one if it were in fact a criti-
cism.
All that we can extract from the article
is the impression that something in the
exhibition has outraged Bill’s sensibilities.
MIKE BROWN, COLIN LANCELY,
ROSS CROTHALL.
(.Annandale Imitation Realists )


MIDDY’S PRIVATE VIEW
We sent artist Middy to see what he could pick
up at a pre-auction private view of the late Mr
Norman Schureck’s art collection.
“Do you mind if I read ocer your
shoulder P”
“ Don't look now , bul
Caroline. / wonder if sh
of the antiques
/ don't see that in the
catalogue . .
“Young man. Would you stop wiping you i
nose on that painting. It's abstract enougl
already


“Never mind how or why it got there,
get the damn thing off!”
“We should have brought along a
little ‘ drop ’ to try them out."
“But We don't often get the opportunity to bid
for a Utrillo


A SHORT STORY
FLAG
PAGE
By HAL PORTE
| j t was of little avail to be born,
I m as I was, a good boy. I was
i willing to exhibit behavior
™ rather than perform deeds.
I i Although the past had had
to struggle along without me
and my distinction, I was determined the
future shouldn’t have to. On this line
I was able to hold out until I was nine.
But a soul engaged in virtue should not
be exposed to the sources of human
chicanery . . . parental chicanery,
parental vanity that their offspring
should be human rather than good. Just
in passing, paternal, in my case, meant
maternal.
My father seemed nothing but an
amiable boarder in the mausoleum of our
house. He was always losing his
tobacco-pouch. I can no more accuse
him of carelessness and inhumanity to-
wards me than I can of simplicity and
stupidity. He certainly wanted no part
of my gratitude for being his son. In
this he was more generous than my
mother, who persisted in exacting hom-
age for feeding and clothing and beating
me instead of chopping off my head or
giving me to the dustman. I cannot
conceive of his not caring if I’d had four
legs nor, equally, of his caring to dis-
traction. In essence, he was the sort of
man who, if asked how old God was,
told me to tuck my shirt in. Indiffer-
ence? Sophistication? I’ll never know.
I recognised early that he was older than
I, and a candidate for doom, not because
of the telltale marks time had clawed on
him but because he had given away
something, the world perhaps. My
mother was a different kettle of fish, and
could have been younger than I.
The mausoleum was her house: my
silver teapot, my new sheets, my dining
room, she said. My for everything except
things so personal it would have been
madness to designate otherwise —father’s
cricket-boots, for example, baby’s cot,
the cat’s dish. The mausoleum was
brick, bay-windowed, veranda’d on
three sides and shared a generous country
town block with the Convent of Notre
Dame de Sion. There were rubbery
buffalo-grass lawns, flexuous gravel paths
along which and on which freesias and
sparaxis fraternised with weeds, 12
raffish fruit-trees temperamentally either
proliferating like Chinese or barren as
the nextdoor Sisters whose Angel us bells
sliced days into sections mysterious to
us ; there was a vast backyard hedged
by boxthorn and may. I call such a
pleasant, offhand place mausoleum be-
cause it enshrined my mother’s father-
in relics, that is. These were so many
that it appeared grandfather had taken
the world by the scruff and shaken them
from it. They were disposed throughout
the house in positions that were final,
and emanated a masculine aura. The
odor, as it were, illustrating grand-
father was Russian leather, the color
the dead-leaf-brown of calf-bound books
in which cigar-ash had been spilled, the
metal silver, the feel hunter’s green velvet
lining cedar boxes, the sound a music-
box hurrying through Lanner waltzes.
He had been a Crimean War drummer-
boy, a looter of the Summer Palace,
Peking, had done a military stint in
Japan and finished up as range-keeper
of the Williamstown Rifle Ranges. Mili-
tarism seemed all to him: his first two
wives were officers’ daughters, the third
a crack rifle-shot; his sons were named
after firearms. Despite all evidence, it is
difficult to believe that he was ever where
history unhesitatingly states Bloody
Victory occurred, Rape, Looting, Cholera
and Maladministration, places and times
littered with blown-out guts, reeking
with gangrene and vibrating with screams
of agony, for his battle-paintings reveal
nothing of these. The paintings, in every
shade of glossy brown, showed toy men
and delicate horses dreamily involved in
some 19th-century war. Caught at some
moment of horrorless cessation, the
horses curvetted like statue horses, their
eyes limpid as madonnas’. The out-of-
work warriors posed in hushed, static
and refined groups. Here and there a
hero’s brow was bandaged, the bandage
immaculate except for one tiny carna-
tion of rosewood-colored blood. Usually
this picnic-like siesta occupied the well-
swept bed of a rocky pass at whose gothic
extremity was a golden-brown glase of
sky behind which no one but a super-
annuated God could have been drows-
ing
Tn his collection of scrimshawed whales-
A teeth, the worn-down designs of his
silver-topped dressing-case jars, in the
foxed pages of his “MacFarlane’s
Japan,” in the faltering music-box
tunes, I did not identify the signs of
age. I assumed that anything of his had
this unmistakable nature ; it did not say
Age or The Past to me but Grandfather.
Since I was born too late to meet, miss
or mourn him, his being dead seemed an


But a soul engaged in virtue should not be exposed to the
sources of human chicanery . . . parental chicanery, parental vanity
that their offspring should be human rather than good,
fust in passing, parental, in my case, meant maternal.
advantage. Sorrow or tears were
unnecessary: his quota had been dis-
posed of before my conception. My
porridge-plate, my father’s razor-strop
and mother's curling-tongs were less real
than his leavings, which were, in sort,
not only grandfather’s but grandfather
himself. I felt 1 had descended less from
him than from his samurai swords, his
bootjack, his Chinese wine-cups, even
from his dress uniform with the under-
arms bleached by sweat. If only I’d
been left to keep this innocent vision
how grateful dead grandfather would
have been, how at rest. However, dead
parents are not allowed rest. Filial
chatter keeps them awake. Children,
even if bearded and older than the dead
parent, talk too much. With pitiless pity
and prideless pride they hand around the
dead’s stale honors and nobilities, the
small and human sins: the dead cannot
wash behind their ears before appearing
in public. Poor grandfather! Poor
good-boy me!
I was nine before I was brainwashed
decisively into abandoning my dream of
being so good that God would give me
curly hair, and the king send a medal.
“You are,” I heard my mother saying
from her talkative world, “the spitting
image of your grandfather. You close
your ears to what’s said to you. Bone-
lazy. Absolutely selfish and inconsider-
ate. The spitting image. Put that smelly
old book of grandfather’s away and do
as you’re told.”
1 became famous to myself at once.
Although wounded by my mother’s vul-
garity and outraged by her ferocity, I
obediently became inattentive, bone-
lazy, absolutely selfish and inconsiderate.
I vaingloriously became grandfather’s
spitting image. It was pure obedience.
I lost my first innocence and grandfather
his disguise of death. I was hearing for
the first time that he resembled the
living, and that the living boiled down
to me. It should have been a moment for
tears. I was elated. But something re-
mained shocking: the cheapening impli-
cation in smelly, old book.
Hitherto asking, “Can I listen to
grandfather’s music-box?” had brought
forth no more than one of those year-
long, duplex, adult answers, “May I.
And well-mannered little boys say,
‘Please.’ You were playing it yester-
day, weren't you? Or was it Friday?
At any rate, when Canon James was
trying to tell me about the Guild meet-
ing. Yes, you may. Just a minute,
young man. Wait until I’ve finished.
You wash those filthy hands first.
Grandfather was very proud of that
music-box, and used to polish it with a
special piece of silk he kept in a chamois
bag . . .” All this agonising rubbish,
however, meant HOLY, HOLY, HOLY,
and was understood so. Now, I knew,
there was to be a change. It was as
though one were to say, “Even with
thunder and lightning, some is done
brilliantly, some vilely.”
Mother had always talked to me in
the scatterbrained manner of one enter-
taining herself. I had politely enough
listened to the noise, rarely to the words.
But the words of several years must
have entered me and sunk to the river-
bed of my mind. That silt now stirred.
I began to listen, not only to what I
newly heard, but to what I’d heard with-
out listening years before.
Grandfather had been a fearless
soldier, a fine old gentleman, cultured,
adventurous, a loving father, a model
husband, generous to a fault, an
authority on samurai swords and a con-
noisseur of wines. At the same time he
had been vain, cunning as a bagful of
monkeys, an unfeeling brute who
frittered away time and money on paint-
ing while his children grew up ragged-
arsed, herring-gutted, semi-educated. He
was a drunkard, a gambler, a spend-
thrift lost to all sense of decency and
altogether a rogue. He was to blame for
Uncle Mauser’s stuttering and the death
of three wives he’d harried to a frazzle.
His failings were not recounted with
shame. They came to mind at unlikely
moments. My mother, who had a pretty-
well-concealed flair for incompetence,
would be arranging unsuitable combina-
tions of flowers. In the act of wrestling
with a rose, she would pause to say, “I
was just thinking of your grandfather.
He once threw a plate of boiling-hot
Irish stew at Kathie,“ and talk for 20
minutes in the admiring, even proud,
manner of one to whom the throwing
of Irish stew at daughters, the selling of
the amethyst clasp of one of my grand-
mothers to buy a horse, the swearing
like a cockatoo before a bishop, were
not only lovable traits of grandfather
but rules of living to be commended as
an Australian way of life.
Tt was clear to me that mother con-
A sidered death a form of treason or
conceit disqualifying one from the bene-
fits of tolerance, whitewash and the blind
eye to defects. Since her nature was not
to run against herself, it was patent she
would not die. I knew that liars, bad
men, cruel men, even gluttonous or dirty
men, could die of lying, badness, cruelty,
gluttony or dirt. Fecklessness had. how-
ever, an indestructible quality. Mother
would not die. Asa guarantee of this,
she moved quickly, stayed up late, made
too much noise, wrote too many letters,
kept herself imprisoned in life by too
many ventures into the secrets of others.
But, die mother did.
I was eighteen. All rememberance of
having hoped to live in my own exem-
plary eternity had so long ago gone that


even living in time had become a bore.
So naci 1. Folly rather than wisdom was
my plan. I’d arrived at regarding God
less as a Divine Architect than Cosmic
Vandal. Photographs of the period show
me displaying an expression as patently
put-upon as a camel. My mind, I recall,
was as congested with false conclusions
and misinformation as a football train
with morons.
Several weeks before mother's showy
and impromptu death, people came to
dinner. They were old, dull friends.
During this meal, grandfather, so to
speak, took possesion of mother. She
told the story of how he'd swindled an
aristocratic Japanese —something to do
with one of the family-famed samurai
swords. Whether true or not, neither my
mother nor anyone could have known or
cared. It was one of the polished-by-
repitition Charming Rogue grandfather
legends, unflattering but funny. Stimula-
ted by its success, I launched into another
no less amusing and no more unflattering.
I’d hardly begun when my mother lifted
the table-napkin from her lap, and
crumpled it on the table. She got up.
She left the table and her favorite straw-
berry pudding and the room, so obviously
and tartly simulating headache that, as
soon as I decently could, I hurried
angrily to her bedroom. Before I could
burst out she smacked my face. I had
never known her in such a passion.
“How dare you say such things about
my father.. .about your dear, old grand-
father. It’s like your bloody cheek. God
Almighty, it’s . . . it’s criminal.”
I understood. In her context a
criminal was one, tempted to break a law
not of his own making, who luxuriously
gave way to temptation.
Yet I said, “But it’s your own story.
You’ve told it countless times to people
far less our friends than the Beauforts.
Good God, I quoted you, word for word.”
“Don’t you dare swear and blaspheme
in front of me,” she said. “My telling it’s
a horse of an entirely different color. And
you bloody well know it is.”
I supposed, then, my struck face feel-
ing like a Picasso one, that she was right,
although so very often wrong. Indeed,
I still think that a mother ultimately has
nothing to teach except that she is a
mother. I learned only that a special
accent of feeling was needed to justify
ancestral vilification, and that there were
rights in this field I did not possess. After
all, I'd never known my grandfather. I
did not need to learn that the blow in
the face was forgiveness. It was a social
and moral short cut more loving and
valuable than emotion-wasting palava.
Finally, the blow burnished her immor-
tality. It was unbelievable that anyone so
passionate, who could hit hard and swear
while rebuking one for swearing, could
be bothered with death.
she died she astounded us by the
way she had willed her treasures
(my bits and pieces). I, for one, received
a number of things about which I don't
recall ever expressing a desire. 1 inherited
each thing I had silently coveted. The
will implied a cruel perception: None of
you thought I knew what you were after.
These objects followed me through my
houseless years. In every bed-sitter or
bachelor’s flat, my mother’s legacies took
up positions as positive as my grand-
father’s relics had in her house. The
monteith and the candelabra always sat
on the pie-crust table, and so on. I was
forever packing or unpacking them.
They awaited me patiently as Llewellyn’s
dog while I was in the noisy grave of
World War 11. They followed me like
the Hound of Heaven when I married.
As opposed to boys who are born
cheeky and go-getting, I married —as
boys born good usually and I'm
now able dispassionately to tabulate as
the wrong woman, one of those too
numerous women who, as victims of
their anatomy, are more interested in a
varnished marriage than in whom they
marry.
She treated my mother’s relics with a
hand-painted tenderness bordering on
affectation if not insult. Such articles as
could not be absorbed into her glossy-
magazine schemes of decoration and
domestic practice were arranged in my
study preciously as reputable trivia in an
arty museum. In the same fashion as
—from female guile—she tricked her-
self into incorporating my mother's
treasures into arrangements of what she
considered treasurable (my things) so she
tricked herself into incorporating our son
into her area of emotional activity (my
son). She was welcome to this, and him.
I’d early sniffed out in my feeling for
him my father’s for me. I did not scamp
minimal obligations, but would not be
victim of his connection with me: blood
might be thicker than water but not than
indifference. He was intelligent, false and
popular enough to make-do with one
parent. He would, in fact, have made a
pleasant orphan. I had interpreted him
almost at birth: not a good boy. He had
what it takes to go far in the fancy world
he wanted to go far in. I was a handy
shadow with money in its pocket that his
mother had married for him.
As our son had become her son (my
son), so our daughter became my
daughter. In this my daughter resembled
the less fashionable, though sometimes
more costly and valid, pieces of bric-a-
brac exiled to my study. Not that these
banishments, bric-a-brac or daughter, had
been done crudely. My wife was diplo-
matic to the point of evil, over educa-
ted almost to idiocy, transparent as
cellophane, and as big a fool as Eve.
Nothing is so dangerous as a fool except
a short man, and a woman. Stuck with
my daughter, 1 dealt cut the cards of my
mother’s life just as she, heart by heart,
diamond by diamond, club by club and
spade by spade, had dealt out my grand-
father’s life.
This exercise in nostalgia gave me
pleasure of the kind so relieving to the
middle-aged who have not handled
nostalgia long enough for it to wear
shabby and become nothing but the past
—that Senior Citizen’s universe in which
Progress is a come-down from the
Golden Age, Faith the father of Ingrati-
tude, and Remorse the daily bread.
The world I intended to depict was a
summery one. No caterpillar plum-
meted from the trees under which one
picnicked, no nightmare infested the bed,
God had not become a politician. I was
presenting to my own child an amended,
reprinted and prettily bound slender
volume, memoirs of my mother as a
species of gay saint. I went to a lot of
happy trouble to unearth early photo-
graphs of her in which she posed with
arch dignity, her waist inconceivably
tiny, under hats like heaped platters of
roses, with muffs of imitation ocelot like
rectangular sporrans, wearing twenty-
buttoned gloves. Thus, with earrings
long lost piercing her ears, and Parma
violets long withered at her breast, my
mother rehearsed for death.
TTltimately, after several years, it
became difficult to say something
new and flattering about the creature
evoked by the photographs retouched to
perfection. I began to feel I was gilding
a lily already congealed to gold. I next
heard myself offsetting accounts of my
mother’s energetic charities by accounts
of her extravagances and cattiness, her
understanding heart by her intolerant
tongue, charm by waspishness, wit by
provincial cruelty. These sorts of duo-
logues took place:
“Your grandmother had the most
beautiful eyes I’ve ever seen. The color
0f... of the glass in old-fashioned
aquariums. But I don’t suppose you
know what I mean.”
“I don’t think I do, Daddy.”
“A sort of murky green.”
“That doesn't sound beautiful. Murky’s
awful.”
“Cloudy! That’s it. Suffused and
cloudy.”
“A bit better.”
“Cloudy green, then. Semi-trans-
lucent. And imbedded in them, if you
looked, were little speckles. Near the
pupil they were jet-black. Others, raying
out in the iris, were less black. Most
wonderful was that each dark speck had
another next to it like a pinprick of
gold.”
“Oh, Daddy, her eyes must have been
beautiful.”


“You see, I said they were. The whites
were like porcelain, not a vein. Grand-
mother's skin, too, was the whitest I’ve
ever seen.”
Then, having sung, I began to bark.
“But her hands! You can't imagine how
ugly: the palm too narrow, the fingers
too skinny. And always damp, slippery-
damp . . .”
1 seemed evangelisticaliy driven not to
let my daughter be sickened by the charms
of an unflawed grandmother. Not only
did I, as it were, sponge off the re-
touching from the photograph, I went
surgically further, wrenching open those
dead lips arranged in a whimsical smile to
reveal that all her back teeth had been
removed, tearing off a toque of velvet
pansies and, rummaging with brutal
honesty in the great nest of hair, plucked
out the padding that made it great, and
offered it to my daughter as a proof of
.. . what?
While this building-up and demolition
went on, while the lens of my attention
was turned from myself as a middle-aged
man, while I was being a recollected boy
or, at most, eighteen and mother alive,
it was my daughter who was eighteen.
It is by the age of one's children rather
than one's contemporaries that one dis-
covers how far along the road one is.
I’d not gone as far as my grandfather,
but I’d gone farther than my mother. I
was older than she. She was my old-
fashioned child.
As an eighteenth birthday treat I drove
my daughter to Sydney: she wanted to
see an opera, she wanted to show off to
Sydney friends by staying at a newly-
opened hotel all glare and glass and
architectural vulgarity and pure vulgarity.
It was in this unseemly setting, and old
enough to know better than to be tolerant
enough and careless enough to drink with
her friends in my daughter’s room, that
my heart was bitten.
The young people, as though in in-
gratitude for the drinks I was buying
them for what I’d done 225 months ago,
were as gaily boring as only the young
can be. They gave sparkling and un-
stinted accounts of buses they’d missed
and of buses they’d caught, they revealed
to me severally that it was a hot day,
they squealed their way through de-
scriptions of happenings which, they
assured me, would have reduced me to
shrieks had I’d been there, they informed
me that I was a sweetie-pie and madly
understanding and not at all possessive
like some parents they could name were,
eh?
Then my daughter spoke. I heard her.
“Oh, Daddy’s been through it all,
though. That possessive jealousy thing's
no news to Daddy. His mother was a
tartar. Very charming and all that, and
quite beautiful. Wasn’t she, Daddy?
But when he was an itsy-bitsy boy he
absolutely adored his grandfather who
was a crazy old military bod and an ab.
fab. character. But the old girl was so
Freudian and jealous that she made up
the most fantastic slanders about
great-grandfather ...”
T saw my mother crumple her damask
table-napkin with its design of swans
and bulrushes. 1 saw her walk away
from the strawberry pudding she loved.
I knew, now, the teethmarks in her heart.
“I think,” 1 said, “I'll go and lie down.
I’ve a headache.”
I had scarcely closed the door of my
chain-store hotel room when my daughter
knocked for admittance. 1 could see she
was soiled with anger. I had shamed
her. Before she could speak, I said:
“How dare you . . . how dare you . . .?”
“Talk about grandmother, you mean?”
“You know precisely what I mean.
About my mother.”
“Really, Daddy! Don’t give me that
mother stuff. You're just tired from the
long trip. You can't possibly be really
upset about . .
“My mother? Your ungrateful,
venomous talk about my mother in front
of those half-wits? Of course 1 can. 1 am.”
“That’s unfair and illogical. You told
me all I know about her. You said she
was . .
“You’re wearing her earrings.”
She stared at me as if I’d just come
into focus. Her lingers ascended to her
lobes with the gesture of one testing the
truth of a statement.
“I’ll take them off,” she said, pretend-
ing a distinction of attitude, offering a
shadow of a deed as a gesture of contempt
for middle-aged nastiness.
“Do,” 1 said.
Her eyes showed disbelief. I saw
them lose that expression as one loses
blood from an amputation. I saw my-
self come into deeper focus as a shape
occupied by someone else, cold, hard,
silently staring an evil and impossible
demand. She understood. With re-
pulsion she removed the tainted jewellery.
I held out my hand.
“This is unforgivable,’’ she said, her
voice streaked with hate and tears not to
be shed. “I’ve heard you telling stories
of grandmother . . .”
“Countless times,” 1 said. “That’s
entirely different. And you know it is.”
My icebound request for the return
of the earrings I'd given her the day
before was the equivalent of my mother’s
slap in the face. With this blow my
mother had punished and forgiven me.
and bought, at the same time, her own
forgiveness for ancestral gossip She
had to buy it thus: the victim of her
affection having been in his grave for
nearly twenty years. I, too, now. was
relentlessly forgiving my daughter, and
buying forgiveness from a mother buried
for more than twenty years.
As I stood there, the earrings in my
hand, I continued to stare at my daughter
on whose face love, distress, bewilder-
ment, anger and contempt were easy to
read. They were inherited. They had,
on such an occasion as this, mingled on
the surface of my younger face. i
wondered how long it would be before
I was as dead as my grandfather and my
mother, and that expression on my
daughter’s face, translated into tales and
told to my daughter’s future child, would
circle back to her and jolt her into violent
defence of me.
1 wondered in which year, in which
room, in which country, she wouid have
to lash out and punish and forgive, as 1
had had to, and my mother had had to
to lash out and forgive so that the dead
would allow us to forgive ourselves.


The Wild
Cat Pages
OIL SEARCH
MORE OIL AT MOONIE
FINANCE BUSINESS ECONOMIC COMMENT INVESTMENT OIL AND MINING
npHE two new oil strikes by the
Union Oil Development-Kern
County Land Co.-Australian Oil and Gas
Corporation team at 5651 ft-5675 ft and
5800 ft at Moonie No. 2 seem to indicate
that Australia is “on the threshold of a
new era.”
Many more wells must be drilled and
exhaustively tested before it can be
definitely established that Queensland
has a good commercial field. But
present indications are that Australia
may reasonably soon have its own oil.
Ever since the Cabawin strike last
year, oil shares have been a speculator's
special on the sharemarket. Unfor-
tunately, the investors' reaction has, so
far, not been particularly discriminating
—scrip prices have soared after each
preliminary announcement of a new oil
flow, but sagged when the
more expert but soberly worded technical
reports were released.
At this stage, foreign interests hold the
major financial stake in Australia’s oil
exploration ventures. This w>as inevit-
able as the Australian economy was not
able to stand the full extent of terrific
initial oil search costs. But this also
means that, initially, the major part of
Australia's oil earnings may be siphoned
abroad. The best we can hope
for now is that the international oil
corporations will consider it worth while
to invest their future oil earnings here.
And, of course, there be the
royalties.
The world economy is not now short
of oil. In Western Europe there is con-
siderably more interest in discovering
new sources of natural gas than in look-
ing for more oil. The world tanker fleet
is experiencing serious excess capacity. It
is therefore difficult to envisage a great
future for our oil exports if oil is found
in Australia in sufficient quantities,
although Japan could possibly take some
in addition to its current imports of
Australian coal.
Still, our own supply of oil would
be a great fillip to the economy. The
immediate effect would be a reduction
of about £2om. in our annual import
bill for petroleum products.
The less direct, but equally important,
consequences would include a sub-
stantial reduction in the raw material
costs of our petrochemicals industry.
Sufficient supplies of native oil would
also increase our industrial fuels reserves,
improving the outlook for the iron-
smelting, steel and heavy engineering
industries. And the strategic results of
oil discovery can hardly be over-
estimated.
One of the most encouraging things
about the 5651 ft-5675 ft strike at Moonie
N 0.2 is that oil was not really anticipated
at this particular depth—the Moonie No.
2 oil-producing structure was different and
higher than the one which produced the
flow at Moonie No. 1. Now there are
grounds to think that the 5800 ft. oil at
Moonie No 2 comes from the same oil-
bearing sands as at Moonie No. 1 The
two new wells to be drilled shortly in the
area may yield more encouraging
evidence.
THE COMMON MARKET
REPRESENTATION CHANCES SLIM
A ustralia’s chances for direct top-level
representation at the European
Common Market ministerial conferences
appear to be slim, and this is not
unexpected. Ever since Britain’s
expected entry into the European Econo-
mic Community was first openly dis-
cussed last year, there has been strong
pressure against direct participation by
major Commonwealth primary pro-
ducers in the UK-Common Market
negotiations.
It is easy to accuse the United Kingdom
of insincerity or half-heartedness in her
attempts to secure direct ministerial
representation for her Commonwealth
trade partners. The manner in which
Britain submitted Australia's official
request for participation in the discus-
sions to the Common Market Ministers
may also seem much too formal. But
it must be realised that the United
Kingdom herself is in a difficult position
and her first concern is, quite naturally,
with securing the best conditions for her
manufactured exports to Western Europe.
Moreover, Britain faces grave problems
with her own farmers because of the
traditional agricultural support policies.
/ jriculture remains the Common
Market’s principal headache. Dismantling
of price supports for farm products
within the European Economic Com-
munity itself is constantly running into
strong opposition from large sections of
rural producers, whose very existence
oft - 1 depends on the subsidies.
problem is particularly acute in West
Germany.
At the recent session of the European
Economic Community’s Ministerial
Council—which, after long and often
bitter exchanges, put the Common Market
into the second stage of economic
integration ahead of the original schedule
—France secured the right to export its
agricultural surpluses to West Germany.
Bonn had to be content with a relatively
short stay of execution.
The full political effects of this decision
in West Germany are still to be felt since
a very considerable proportion of German
farmers will find their products too high-
cost to compete against food imports
from France. It is expected that many
farms will have to close down. In the
long run this should w'ork out reasonably
well—West German industry is experienc-
ing a serious labor shortage and the influx


Dsl
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT Co. Ltd.
Financier . . Established 1882
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
Interest payable quarterly through the Bank of N.S.W.
Free of Exchange.
DIRECTORS:
VV. R. Schofield (Chairman)
T. H. Martin D; W. F. Pattinson
Alternate Directors: R. V. Agnew, G. L. A. Donohoo
Trustee for Debenture Stock Holders:
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited
APPLICATIONS AND PROSPECTUS
Applications will be accepted only on one of the forms
of application attached to the printed copy of the Pros-
pectus which may be obtained from:
• All branches of the Bank of New South Wales in New
South Wales, Australian Capital Territory, Victoria,
Queensland.
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange, or
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
Head Office: 74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 4521-2-3.
AND BRANCHES
Underwriting Brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
20-22 O’Connell Street, Sydney
84 William Street, Melbourne. 340 Queen Street, Brisbane
BROKERS IN VICTORIA
Clarke & Co., 450 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
BROKERS IN QUEENSLAND
Charles Elliott & Son, 356 Queen St., Brisbane
(Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
BROKERS IN CANBERRA
T. J. Thompson & Sons, C.B.C. Chambers,
Petrie St., Canberra.
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
.
z
2
PER ANNUM
FOR 5 YEARS
3.
- /
4
6 !*
3 years
y months
6*
2 years
E
4 years
of displaced farm workers into the indus-
try will help to keep down the steadily
rising wage costs. But in the immediate
future the Bonn Government may soon
face a violent storm of opposition.
In these circumstances it is not difficult
to see why West Germany and some
other Common Market countries are
against direct participation by Australia,
Canada and other Commonwealth
primary producers in the difficult negotia-
tions between the European Economic
Community and the United Kingdom.
Any further concessions to primary pro-
ducers, particularly to such ‘'outside'’
exporters as Australia and Canada, may
provoke serious political difficulties for
several Common Market Governments.
Then there is the additional argument
that, if Australia is represented, all the
other British Commonwealth countries
should be entitled to particij. ite.
Some reports from Brussels say that
France is giving sympathetic support to
Australia’s claims for representation.
This seems to be a tactical move mors
than anything else. France is the only
Common Market country with non-
European ‘"associate States'’ which are
important sources of certain raw
materials. These newly independent
members of the French Community have
been given an “associate membership”
in the Common Market, but their prac-
tical position has not been clearly defined.
It could therefore be to France's advant-
age to have Australia—an independent
primary producer press its case at
Brussels. Then there is the question of
wheat, with which both France and Aus-
tralia face some similar marketing
problems.
It would be wrong to put too much
hope on the reported French support,
which seems to be only a short-term
feature of these long negotiations. Aus-
tralia must be prepared to be excluded
frcm the more vital proceedings, with
perhap; an occasional opportunity to
present her views on particular problems
cn a technical level.
We may do better in bilateral negotia-
tions with Common Market countries
which import our wool and are anxious
to expand their exports to Australia.
There are strong possibilities that the
Common Market area will be gradually
increasing its intake of wool and this
could provide some compensation for
the probable loss of other primary
produce markets.
But however ably Australia’s case may
be put forward in London and Brussels,
it is unrealistic to expect that the old
pattern of Australia’s exports to the UK
and Western Europe may remain
unchanged.
E. B.
ARCHITECTURE
A PROFESSIONAL CHALLENGE
Tn Sydney the architectural profession
is presently fighting for its very
existence.
Alarmed by the increasing aggressive-
ness of developers it has, as an institute,
at last spoken out against a system
which employs an architect as part of
the organisational team.
The concern appears to revolve
around differing ways of getting on with
the same job.
Stating the case for the architect, the
president of the NSW Chapter of the
Royal Australian Institute of Archi-
tects, Mr A. H. A. Hanson, recently
said that through excessive public rela-
tions work the package dealer revealed
only the rosy side of the picture.
Architects admit, however, that this
dynamic challenge to traditional ways of
building must be met by modernising
their own architectural practice and pro-
cedures. They also stress —among them-
selves—that their training should he
widened to include management and
business affairs.
A Sydney architect, Mr Sidney E.
Smith, recently pointed out to a group of
executives at the Australian Institute of
Management that one of the functions
of an architect is to act as agent for the
building owner.
Architects agree that their main
criticism of the packaged deal system is
that the building owner has no in-
dependent agent to watch his interests.
By applying modern business tech-
niques to the construction industry the
packaged deal system has now extended
far beyond the erection of a single multi-
storey skyscraper. It incorporates high
density housing, domestic housing units
and projects, shopping centres and even
complete satellite villages and towns.


m
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS, £893,311.
TANGIBLE ASSETS. £3.075,026.
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(HOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
WITH RIGHT OF RECALL
ON 30 DAYS' NOTICE
3 months . . . . 5Y2% p.a.
6 months .... 6% p.a.
9 months .... 6 Vl2 % p.a.
12 months .... 7% p.a.
t 3 months .... 71/2% p.a.
• FIXED DEPOSITS
2 years 8% p.a.
3 years 8 Vl2 % p.a.
AND OVER
APPLICATIONS must be made
on the form enclosed with the
prospectus, which is obtainable
from
Members of the Stock Exchange
ANY BRANCH OF A.N.Z. BANK
The Registered Office of the Com-
pany, William & Crown Sts.,
Sydney. Telephone FA 0322.
Financing world-
famous products
distributed by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies.
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
in Queensland
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
in Queensland
LISTER
Engines
GROUP SALES
YEAR ENDED
30-6-61
£12,857,865
jgh
The
NORTHERN LIFE
Assurance Company of Australia Limited
(Incorporated in Canberra, Australia )
All Classes of Ordinary Life Assurance,
Superannuation and Annuity Policies Issued
HEAD OFFICE: 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone BL 5601 K. J. Hedley, General Manager
Among its own specialists it is easy to
envisage land developers and town
planners. From a financial point of view
the system extends from modestly priced
domestic homes to structures well into
the seven figures.
Announcing a new £lm. home build-
ing plan for New South Wales, Mr L. J.
Hooker introduced a further factor when
he said that his company would build
homes on buyers’ own land or on land
bought by the company. He also pointed
out that prospective home buyers could
use their own architects or the company s
home designs
Returning to the Sydney architects’
fight for personal professional indentity,
it seems ironical that, after having pre-
viously frowned on their own members
and others publicly speaking about
personal achievements, they have now
established a fund of £6OOO to be spent
on explaining their work and problems
to the public at large.
B. H. CLAPCOTT
REAL ESTATE
DEVELOPMENT
INSTITUTE FORMED
A group of NSW real-estate develop-
ment companies has formed an
Institute of Real Estate Development “to
secure in respect of urban land develop-
ment the general acceptance of standards
and principles which conform to the
requirements of good town planning,
high ethics, economic soundness, com-
munity interest, justice and reasonable-
ness.”
Mr B. J. McDonald, of Savoy Corpora-
tion, was elected president, ana Mr J. R.
Charody, of Stocks and Holdings, and
Mr R. Ryko, of Parkes Developments
Pty Ltd, vice-presidents.
Mr McDonald said recently that the
Institute, reported to represent “com-
panies associated in all phases of
development throughout the State.' will
not infringe on the individual rights of
member companies, but “serve to repre-
sent the interests of a great industry
which today .... has an estimated turn-
over in excess of £160m.”
The Institute will not attempt to restrict
or fix values or prices and will deal with
matters of general principies. Submis-
sions will be presented to local govern-
ment, town-planning, water, sewerage and
electricity-supply authorities and local
councils. In addition, a regular news
bulletin will be published.
If the acceptance of the principles
enunciated at its formation will be
achieved by the institute to some degree,
it will be a valuable addition to the State's
economic life. But it has a difficult task
ahead of it.


COMPANY REVIEWS AND NOTES
Mac.ROBERTSON MILLER
GREAT EXPECTATIONS IN WA
■\/fac.Robertson Miller Airlines Ltd
is one of the only two independent
airline operators left in Australia, after
the aquisition by Ansett Transport Indus-
tries Ltd of Mandated Airlines Ltd, a
subsidiary of the W. R. Carpenter group.
The other independent airline is East-
West Airlines Ltd in NSW.
The company was formed in 1955 as
the result of a merger of Mac. Robertso-
n Aviation Co. Pty Ltd and Airlines
(W.A.) Ltd. At present the line covers an
unduplicated network of 20,000 air miles,
with 100 scheduled touchdowns, ranging
from Albany on the Bight to Darwin in
the Far North.
The company operates all intra-state
airmail services in Western Australia and
the Northern Territory under a contract
with the Commonwealth Government,
and also the interstate services between
Darwin and Perth. In addition to regular
air services throughout Western Aus-
tralia and the Northern Territory,
Mac. Robertson Miller operates charter
flights and does photographic survey
work. The company’s fleet comprises six
DC3 aircraft (including one freighter),
one Dove, one Anson and one Fokker
Friendship. The company’s Fokker
Friendship, which was used during the
year “at maximum utilisation”, completed
3936 flying hours and travelled 816,182
miles during the year. Directors are now
proceeding with plans for the acquisition
of a second aircraft of the Fokker
Friendship class.
Tourism today is one of the world’s
largest industries. Figures available show
that more than 100,000 overseas tourists
visited Australia annually and spent
about £l4 million in travel, accommoda-
tion and other expenses. M.M.A. is play-
ing a leading role in progress of the
tourist industry, which will become more
and more important in the economy of
WA in years to come. Last year M.M.A.
conducted its first major package holiday
tour to the North in conjunction with
the Western Australian Government Rail-
ways. A special M.M.A. Tours Service
was also established to give advice in
planning and conducting tours.
A marked increase in tourism is
expected next year with influx of inter-
state and overseas visitors for the British
Commonwealth and Empire Games in
Perth. A new 5000-mile “Explorer Tour
to the North-West via Alice Springs” is
planned. Bookings for the 1961-62 season
for the “South Sea Vacation” are heavy.
New company records were established
in three major divisions in 1960-61. The
company carried 55,656 passengers,
7,152,778 lbs of cargo and 362,176 lbs
of mail.
M.M.A. has a substantial interest in
Air Beef Pty Ltd, which operates in the
Glenroy-Derby district of the Kimber-
leys. Last term 2,384,529 lbs of meat,
edible offal and hides was transported
(up 447,384 lbs).
Gross revenue was £1,432,914 (up
£93.153) for a period of 364 days ending
October 3, 1961. compared with 370 days
of the 1959-60 accounting period. This
follows a change in the company's
accounting from calendar month basis
to a four-weekly period basis. Additional
fares revenue mainly accounted for the
considerable improvement on the 1959-60
figures.
Expenses rose by £84,652 to £1,323,149,
mainly due to increased charges for
wages and salaries, fuel, materials and
services and higher write-offs for depre-
ciation of equipment.
Consolidated net profit for the year
ended October 3, 1961, rose by £16,681
to £56,531 after writing off £98,526 for
depreciation (up £33,786) and providing
£53,234 for taxation (down £8211). The
amount provided for taxation was in
excess of the amount required to satisfy
the immediate liability on the profit dis-
closed. The excess is accounted for by
disallowances, for tax purposes, of certain
provisions for overhauls and depreciation
charges:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
Sept. Profit. , Dividend —serves. serves.
30 & " £ £ £
195-8... 70,084 7$ p.c. = 35,712 34,372 60,535
Capital profit, £30,233 90,768
1959. . 40,843 7| p.c. = 35,712 5,131 95,899
Capital profit, £440 .. .. .. 96,339
1960.. 39,850 p.c = 35,712 4,138 100,477
Oct.
3,
1961.. 56,531 71 p.c. = 35,712 20,819 121,296
Earning rate rose to 11.9 p.c. on average
ordinary capital, compared with 8.37 p.c.
in 1960, 8.6 p.c. in 1959, 14.71 p.c. in
1958 and 10.5 p.c. in 1957. Dividend
remained steady at p.c,, absorbing
£35,712. Reserves benefited by £20,819,
rising to £121,296.
Paid capital remained at £476,157.
Long-term liability (secured) was lower
at £341,840. Creditors were lower at
£222,563 (down £4259). A provision of
£7786 has been made for long service
leave commitments for pilots:
Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Sep. 30, Sep. 30, Oct. 3,
1959. 1960. 1961.
Share capital .. £176,157 £476,157 £476,157
Reserves . . . . 95,899 100,477 121,296
Long-term liability
on. aircraft (se-
cured .. .. 371,210 341,840
Creditors .. .. 159,214 226,822 222,568
Tax provision . . 40,806 64,091 63,874
Long service leave
—pilots .. 7,786
Final div. .. 35,712
£772,076 £1,238,757 £1,269,228
Freeholds and lease-
holds .. . . 155,412' 157,944 173,546
Aircraft and acees-1
sories .. .. 1 170,973 647,534 599,789
Plant and equip- [
ment . . .. j
Shares- in Air Beef
Pty. .. .. 6,500 6,500 6,500
Short term dep. . 25,000
Stocks .. .. 73,113 104,917 134,728
Debtors .. .. 152 225' 156,674 163,448
Cash, bonds .. 213,853 165,188 166,217
£772,076 £1,238,757 £1,269,228
Freeholds and leaseholds have increased
by £15,602 to £173,546. After higher
depreciation charges, plant and equip-
ment, aircraft and accessories were
£47,745 lower at £599,789. The company
has lent out £25,000 on short-term
deposits. Stocks were higher at £134.728
(up £29,811). Sundry debtors were also
higher at £163,448. Cash stood at £30,617
and bonds at £135,600.
Important developments in the past
year included the opening of the £15,000
Broom air terminal. A major programme
of extensions and improvements to
M.M.A.’s hostel at Derby cost £16,000.
Further progress was made on the con-
struction of the township at Kununurra
Both Government and private finance
are flowing into the North-West to
develop the mining and pastoral industries
and to establish tropical agriculture. With
£l3O million breakthrough in secondary
industry in the State, a new era of
development is expected.
Development of irrigation farming has
commenced. The Camballan rice project
is well established, and a large experi-
mental farm is being developed on the
Ord River. The Ord River diversion
dam will enable up to 15,000 acres to be
put under irrigation. The Ord River
Scheme is part of an even larger scheme
involving dams on the Fitzroy and
Margaret Rivers which will make
possible the irrigation of up to 300,000
acres, with an estimated potential value
of £2O million a year from tropical crops.
With permission to export iron ore from
Australia, surveys revealing huge deposits
in the Pilbara, West Pilbara and Yilgarn
fields have been undertaken. Plans are


to double the output of iron ore at
Yampi.
Deposits at Pompey's Pillar are being
opened up. Blue asbestos output at
Wittenoon is being expanded, bauxite
deposits in the Darling Ranges will be
drawn on by the £5 million alumina
refinery at Kwinana. A £4 million
titanium oxide plant is being established
at Bunbury.
A major developmental public works
programme is being undertaken to pro-
vide the necessary rail and road services
and shipping facilities. The largest
single project of this kind is the £4l
million Kalgoorlie - Kwinana rail
standardisation plan. The Government’s
allocation of £1 million for beef roads
in the Kimberleys marked the beginning
of the £8 million Beef Roads scheme.
With major developmental works now
proceeding and the expected boom in the
Western Australian basic economy, the
company looks to the future with confi-
dence
At the last sale in Perth the 10s. ords
changed hands at 12s. 3d. Net tangible
asset backing for the 10s. ords. was 12s.
Id. a unit on the basis of consolidated
accounts.
AUSTRALIAN STOCK BREEDERS LTD
STRUGGLE WITH THE ELEMENTS
A USTRALIAN STOCK BREEDERS Co. LTD
was one of the few companies to
suffer a reversal in 1961 which did not
blame the setback on the Federal Gov-
ernment's credit squeeze. In fact, this
nightmare for so many other enterprises
does not even rate a mention in the
latest accounts. Directors’ concern was
with a force far greater than the mere
elected governing bodies of man —their
struggle was with the elements. And the
company certainly did not corne through
unscathed.
Australian Stock Breeders was formed
in 1915 and now operates throughout
northern Queensland. It has five breed-
ing properties scattered throughout the
Gulf country and one stud and fattening
property. Total area of these exceeds
6300 square miles and all but one (1968)
are held under lease until 1984.
Rainfall on the properties in the past
year was again well below average, with
some not receiving falls for nine months.
This resulted in a smaller production and
heavier losses of stock. Brandings on all
stations totalled 15,033 head (down 1005),
while herd cattle declined by 5286 to
75,758. The number of stud cattle rose
from 1805 to 1873.
Stock losses would have been heavier
but for the moving of cattle by road-
trains to railheads, meatworks and other
properties. However, this work was done
only at considerable cost and, combined
with the lower price for cattle and
increased labor costs, caused profit to
slump from £48,942 to £2145. This is the
poorest result since 1946. It was arrived
at after providing £2168 more for depre-
ciation at £19,630.
Despite the setback, the company con-
tinued to pay a dividend and drew on
reserves for £9962 to pay 5 p.c. to
ordinary shareholders (10 p.c. in the two
previous years) and 6.2 p.c. to pref. share-
holders (8.2 p.c. in the two previous
years):
r~ —Dividends——, To Re- Re-
Nov., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. serves, serves.
£ p.e. p.c. £ £ £
1957.. 32,809 6.2 8 15,383 16,926 92,302
1958.. 43.683 6.2 8 15,383 28,300 120,602
Adjustment in value of Thorntonia
cattle, £38,182 153,784
1959.. 46,-402 5.2 10 19,711 26,691 180,475
1960.. 48,942 8.2 10 19,711 29,231 209,706
Unexplained add. to general reserves.
£4,017 .. . . ... .. 213,723
1961.. 2,145 6.2 5 12,107 203,761
The general reserve shows an unexplained
addition of £4017. bringing total reserves
and surplus profits to £203,761. This
supports paid-up capital of £216,414.
Principal movement in the balance-
sheet is reflected in the valuation of
stock. This after allowing for estimated
mortality and valued on the same basis
as in 1960. appears in the books at
£293,033, compared with £308,668 in the
previous year. Liquidity remains fairly
satisfactory, although overdraft is up
£22,414 at £132,397:
Paid Capital— 1955. 1959. 1960. 1961.
Pref. .. £10.7,249 £107,249 £107,249 £107,249
Ord. .. 109,165 109,165 109,165 109,165
Reserves . . 120,602 180,475 209,706 203,761
Loan, mortgage 10,5,000 148,750 141,250 123,500
Overdraft .. 92,554 102,446 109,983 132,397
Creditors, etc. 10,450 34,127 47,080 29,008
Final divs. . . 15,883 19,711 19,711 12,107
£560,403 £701,923 £744,144 £717,187
Freehold and
leaseholds.. 267,412 356,040 394,089 390,866
Livestock . . 249,105 303,816 308,668 293,033
Stores . . 30,009 30,771 24,881 19,690
Cash, debtors,
etc. . . 13.877 11,296 16,506 13,598
£560,403 £701,923 £744,144 £717,187
With any improvement in the weather
the outlook is good. The quality of the
cattle has been continuously built up,
while pastures improvement is being con-
ducted on all stations.
Last sale of the 10s. shares in Brisbane
was at 21s. 9d. to show a dividend yield
of 2.3 p.c.
Net tangible assets backing is 78s. 4d.
for the prefs. and 28s. Bd. for each 10s.
ord.
STROMBERG-CARLSON (A’SIA)
RECEIVER
A ppointment by the Bank of NSW of a
receiver for Stromberg-Carlson
(Australasia) Pty Ltd may be causing
some concern to unsecured noteholders
in the distributing co., floated as Strom-
berg-Carlson Distributors Ltd in 1956.
The public then took up 240,000 10s.
ords. and the manufacturing co. 90,000 —
all for cash. This put £165,000 issued
capital on the register.
After a £35,485 loss in 1959, the manu-
facturing co. acquired the publicly held
shares in Stromberg-Carlson Distributors
by exchanging these for unsecured notes.
The notes were issued by the distri-
buting co. but 9 p.c. interest and redemp-
tion seven years later were guaranteed by
Stromberg-Carlson (A'sia.)
Interest has been paid so far, but note-
holders could do with more assurance
that the redemption will be met. The
notes rank as unsecured creditors, and
presumably would have to wait until the
Bank has had first bite at the cherry.
The manufacturing co. is a proprietary
and does not put out a balance sheet.
Stromberg-Carlson Distributors is also
a proprietary now, and no figures have
been issued since those to October 31,
1960.
At the time of writing, a seller was
offering £lOO par value notes for £62
without attracting buyers.
OIL
MOONIE No.2
flowed at Moonie No. 2 last week
at the rate of 2592 barrels a day
during a 49-minute' drill stem test con-
ducted between 5651 ft. and 5675 ft. A
second strike was made at 5800 ft., the
same level as at Moonie No. 1.
The resident manager of the Union
Oil Development Corporation, Mr D. T
Graves, said Moonie No. 2 oil was a
51 gravity clean. This is considered to be
“high grade”.
The 5651ft.-5675ft. oil strike at Moonie
No. 2 raises the question of a possible re-
examination of the corresponding layers
in the first well. Mr Graves said that
the second Moonie well will now be
cored and drilled “to the equivalent
depth of the producing sand of Moonie
No. 1.” He warned that a number of
wells must be drilled before limits of the
Cabawin-Moonie field can be defined.
A.O.G.’s ss. shares quickly jumped to
£6 10s. a unit, then settled down to
about £5 15s.


A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. h. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building:,
291 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 312761
(4 lines)
j
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Delfin House,
16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building,
150 Queen St., Melbourne,
67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables:
“Rosdale,” Sydney, Melbourne
or Wollongong.
John N. Robertson, Thompson
and Co.
Members of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS,
Temple Court, 423 Little Collins St.,
Melbourne, C.l.
Telephones: 67 6154, 67 6155
Telegrams and Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you properly
covered? Now is the time to
review your insurances. Serious
financial losses can result on private
and business premises that are
improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
73 FEARS OF SERVICE
TO TEE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
SPECULATOR'S DIARY
Monday, March 5
,Ir PHERE are some things I consider too
-*• dangerous even for speculators and
oil is one of them.”
‘‘Planet may not be the good thing that
the stags think it is.”
And, smugly, “Now this doesn’t mean
1 bought A.O.G. at 845.”
These, and other immortal quotations,
are not from some historical document
but, regrettably, from Speculator’s Diary
of January and February, 1962. As they
say in Texas, I’m now a sadder and
wiser guy who still doesn't have oil over
his address. Anyway if I’ve made an
error of judgment it might as well be a
monumental one. It certainly took a
brave man or woman to buy A.O.G.
shares at 70s. or 80s. So good luck to
those who did.
As you can see, I’ve decided to adopt
a charitable attitude about the whole
ghastly business. But in actual fact it
so depressed me last Sunday that I went
and buried my head in the sand at Bondi.
There I found the other oil pessimists,
the partners of Ord and Minnett, who
had successfully tunnelled through from
O'Connell St, and Mr Askin was also on
his way through from Collaroy. They
did little for my dejection which worsened
as I thought of my other recent mistakes
such as the premature sales of Bitumen
and Oil at 255. 3d., Marrickvilie Holdings
also at 255. 3d., F. G. O’Brien at 9s. 9d.
Fenwick at 30s. cum rights, and 1.C.1.
rights at 11s. 9d. I tried to console myself
with the thought that I did have 400
Planet and rights to 1,000 Mid-Eastern.
Then I forcibly stopped myself counting
shells and bikinis and began totting up
the gains 1 had made since my annual
report in December. To my surprise, l
found that my portfolio is now worth
some £6300 compared with £4867 at the
beginning of December. This is a gain
of over £l4OO or nearly 30 p.c. in three
months. Immediately I felt a whole lot
better about those silly old oil shares I
didn’t have.
I’d already faint-heartedly sold the
2000 Woodside contributing I’d bought
the week before with the object of getting
1000 rights to the Mid-Eastern Oil issue.
I sold the Woodside the morning after
Moonie No. 2 “came in” and was able
to get an average price of 7s. 9d. for a
profit of £33. This means I have 1000
Mid-Eastern rights for nothing. At the
same time my previous week’s debts were
cleared and I was left with a cash surplus
of £129.
All but £34 of this went on 200 Pen-
folds shares which I managed to get by
going on my knees to the underwriting
broker of whom I am an occasional
client. There is probably half-a-crown
to be made on Penfolds shares at the
placement price of 9s. 3d. although
frankly I think the attractions of this
float are grossly overrated. Earning rate
is only 16 p.c. to capital and profits have
been static for the last five years. Hardly
a growth stock. Still, as I’ve learnt to my
sorrow with oil shares, it doesn’t matter
what the individual investor thinks: what
counts is what everybody else thinks, no
matter how emotional and illogical they
might be. In other words, the popularity
of a share is of far more consequence
than its merits in the short term at
least. And popularity is not always the
direct result of merit. Look at C.S.R. or
Peters Vic. Never'.beless, I’m grateful
for the 200 Penfolds I am able to add
to my portfolio.
My only other purchase in my
chastened mood this week was 400
Anderson Meat at 12s. Surely this is
too low a price for what was quite a
successful company until a year or two
ago. I don’t know anything about Ander-
son Meat’s management but if it isn’t
competent then the £1 shares at 12s. must
still be tempting takeover bait for some-
one like Mayfair Hams whose 10s. shares
are selling at 475. or so. To pay for
shares in the sausage maker I tossed out
my holding in the sausage retailer, Derrin
Bros. I bought 400 Derrin shares last
August at 10s. but was disappointed in
the slight profit fall in the latest half-
year. I was able to sell at 12s. 6d. so
that my profit was a tidy £44, making
the week’s takings £77.
SOLD
2,000 Woodside contributing at
7/9 £754
400 Derrin Bros, at 12/6 .. £250
BOUGHT
200 Penfolds Wines at 9/3 .. £95
400 Anderson Meat at 12/- .. £246
At the end of the week I had £3B
in cash and these shares
Cost Car-
No. of Name of l>ate Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
300 Hornibrook 4/3/61 23/- 28/6
200 Southern TV 26/6/61 20/- 27/3
400 O'Donnell
Griffin 28/8/61 11/8 14/9
200 Shipping News 25/9/61 17/3 24/-
800 Southgate 6/11/61 8/6 9/-
1,000 United Motels 20/11/61 3/6 4/2
500 Western Mining
(contributing) 20/11/61 8/3 13/9
1.000 Harris Holdings 5/12/61 7/- 9/-
200 Hunter Douglas 7/12/61 26/- 42/-
200 Hunter Douglas
notes 21/2/62 36/- 36/-
200 Beau Monde 8/12/61 25/- 33/-
1,000 Fibre Con-
tainers 13/12/61 17/6 19/-
400 Planet Oil 15/1/62 1/-
400 W. J. Manufac-
turing 24/1/62 11/9 12/6
400 Auto and General
Finance 8/2/62 19/9 24/-
300 Mauri Bros. 16/2/62 22/6 24/-
100 F. IV. Williams 20/2/62 36/6 37/6
1.000 Mid-Eastern
rights 22/2/62
200 Penfolds Wines 2/3/62 9/3
400 Anderson Meat 2/3/62 12/- 12/-


Feiffer
BEFORE 106 LEFI THE COMWEMT
ELLA AMP MS VEcIVEQ u)Ep 60
POWM TO THF SOVIST EMBASSY
tfOU MMOW- TO PROTEST AU
THESE 00MB TESTS-'
$0 AFTFR WA/TIM6 AROUMP Fo£
AWHILF WF 69T T 9 OFF A SOl//FT
OFFICIAL AMP WF MIAPF OUR PROTEST
He Tust sm/lfp t/foe T was somf
M/MP OF ICID AMP 5A IP I OBVIOUS W
misumpfrstoop history - WAS 1
UMAWARF THAT THF U-S. USFP I
me BOMB FIRST? f
I SAIP o.< v BUT 1 PIPMT THIMK THAT
FXCUS6P THIS FIFTW MF6ATOM FUSIM6SS.
BUT THIS SOV/FT OFFICIAL JUST SMICFP fi
AMP SAIP I OBVIOUSLY MISUMPFR- |
STOOP HISTORY ' WAS I UMAWARF J
That as. troops iwfapfp
RUSSIA IfO 191? ?
1 weu> i saipnosopvs pfp-
FFCT BUT I PIPW'T SFF
J WHAT THAT HAP TO PO
7 WITH".BUT THF SOl//FT
r official smilfi? amp saw
I OBVIOUSLW M'SUMPFRSTOoO
HISTORY- WAS I UWAWARF
OF AMERICAN) MIMW6 IMTFRFSTS
IK) KATAN6A , COW PAW FOR
TFACHFRS AMP CWMCHIM6S
IK) THF SOPTH ?
we OOT OUT OF THFRF
SMIUM6 AMP SHAKIH6
HAMPS AMP TOASTW6
la/ORCP PFACF -
I \\m A FFFUM6 THAT
OM6 OR BOTH OF US
is crafw.


Out and About.
JAZZ
MUSIC WITH A SOUL
THE ARTS BOOKS TELEVISION SPORT ABORIGINALITIES
\l7hile the Alwin Ailey Dance Theatre
"" was joyously presenting the soul of
dance at the Princess Theatre, the musi-
cians from the company were showing a
few lucky jazz lovers at two Melbourne
jazz clubs that the soul of jazz can come
through in whatever style as long as the
players involved realise the importance
of each note as it is being played and
work to make each note emotionally
and musically true.
At the Downbeat Club guitarist Bruce
Langhorne and cellist Les Grinage played
a programme of rural blues and spirituals.
Working in the simplest, most basic form,
Langhorne improvised an ever fresh
succession of delicate and beautiful
melodies over chord progressions
almost any guitarist could handle.
Grinage's accompanying line, as well as
his solos, revealed profound feeling and
masterly musicianship. Far too often
bass lines here tend to be merely utili-
tarian and fuzzily enunciated, but
Grinage's every note sang clear and
resonant. The most moving performance
was a bracket of spirituals. Later in the
night they played a short bracket of
jazz tunes with Melbourne soprano
saxophone player Jim Loughnan, whose
work with the house band earlier had
impressed them.
The next night Grinage returned to
the Downbeat with itinerant aboriginal
blues singer Allan Barker and, after the
house band had finished, these two
showed that the soul of jazz is palpably
real. The first jazzmen thought of their
playing as conversation: “Hear me
talkin’ to ya” w-as their cry (made
immortal in the art of Bessie Smith, who
sang those words). And musicians to-
day still think of real jazz as being that
stage of empathy when each player in
the band listens to what the other
musician is doing and “talks back.”
Allan Barker has had little education;
when he improvises he cannot manage
to rhyme, but his singing compels w'ith
its stark emotional honesty. Grinage
talked to him through the blues: “You
tell me your blues, then I’ll tell you
mine.” The younger man sang, at first
hesitantly, then with greater confidence.
Grinage played superbly ; he accom-
panied Allan and gently encouraged him,
supported him, invoked the soul of jazz
in a simple blues refrain:
“If we goin’ to play jazz, we got to
tell the truth,
If you want to play jazz, all you have
to do is tell the truth.
And no one can harm you, if you
tell the truth.”
Allan sang several aboriginal songs;
a yearning love song, a happy chant, a
song of war. He beat time on the back
of his guitar. All else was silent. A smaii
group of jazz enthusiasts sat in awe. For
this sort of communication, made
manifest, is the rarest experience of all.
Every artist hopes that his work will
generate this communication. But it
seems that the jazzman knows the secret:
it only happens where love is. On this
night, every song, every snatch of mourn-
ful crooning, was a band of love between
two people who unhesitatingly called
each other brother.
On Friday night the Dance Company’s
drummer, Florace Arnold, a protege of
Max Roach, sat in at Jazz Centre 44
with Melbourne’s leading modern
players: Brian Brown. Keith Hounslow,
Alan Lee, Grant Jones and John
Grunden, playing, in order of listing,
tenor saxophone, trumpet, vibraharp,
piano and bass. He revealed a sense of
musical form and brought off so many
subtle effects as to make all drummers
here seem hacks. Some people accused
him of playing too loudly ; certainly at
times his preoccupation with his own
creation made him obtrude ; but the
important thing is that his playing was
superior to anything ever heard here. He
used the drum kit as an instrument, a
music maker rather than a noise maker.
In a 20-minute solo he built up a terri-
fying pattern of tensions and relaxations.
"He says the trick is in naming them rather then painting them."


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£A363,000,000
#
Offices:
SYDNE/, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
His playing on Saturday at the Down-
beat was equally brilliant but he was so
alienated from the other players (who
were not particularly inspiring) as to be
playing alone. However, in a final
bracket with Barry McKimm, a young
trumpet player with a rich tone and very
sensitive, even sweet, enunciation and
Dave McCrea, a piano player who looks
like taking Mike Nock’s place, he did
listen and there was some “talkin’ ” going
on.
This week was perhaps the most
important in recent jazz history ; many
musicians heard and should have got the
message. If they can put these valuable
lessons into practice we can then look to
this country really producing jazz and not
just reproducing it. Les Grinage’s first
reaction to Australia was one of
bewilderment. He could not understand
why thoroughly competent Sydney
musicians should so often play note for
note copies of American originals. In
Melbourne he acknowledged an honest
emotional participation in the music
that others had made. And in Melbourne
he delivered the message which shows
the way to original creation. Forget
yourself, your own personality, your
own identity even. Become an instru-
ment, a vehicle for music to pass through.
Make music only where love is, and
make it your music ....
“If you want to play jazz, all you have
to do is tell the truth.”
ADRIAN RAWLINS
TELEVISION
EVERYTHING SLICK AND SAFE
A T a time when all reviewing has taken
disproportionate powers, when the
right word can save a New York play and
the wrong word condemn a novel to be
remaindered, the man delegated to stare
back at the 23inch screen finds few taking
what he says seriously. While this
applies to America today, it could apply
to Australia tomorrow.
In the United States, when a filmed
programme hits the home screen, it has
been viewed by hundreds of people. It
has been analysed and dissected. It has
been praised as provocative and damned
as cowardly. But in all cases it has been
accepted as a fairly “safe” method of
selling the sponsor’s product.
1 speak now not of the intelligent news
and public affairs programmes produced
in the US, but of the pap which broadcast-
ers call “the main course in our daily
viewing diet.” Examine any half-hour
or hour drama serving up the heroic
cop, the gentle mother-in-law, the inane
(and insane) father-figure, and ask your-
self what in the world a critic could do
to improve this type of programme.
It is valid to point out that films and
Broadway plays are as much the result
of months of careful planning and spend-
ing as a filmed or video-taped production,
but the return in those cases is gauged
in terms of customer satisfaction with
the primary product, the production
itself. On television it is the sponsor’s
brainchild which is the primary product
—the programme comes second. “Will
13 episodes of ‘Bongo —Wonder Dog of
King’s Cross’ sell deodorant?” is the
first question asked.
People today do read movie reviews
and they do read play reviews and they
do read book reviews—and they take
what they read seriously. But if the
television set stands before them, and
someone in the morning paper said,“ ‘Ned
Kelly’s Mother-In-Law’ is a bad pro-
gramme,” few will sit and stare at noth-
ing. They’ll probably watch it anyway
and then write letters to the editor telling
him they loved it. The only reason they
may not watch it is if they watch some-
thing else—in this case, what appears to
be the lesser of two evils.
In the old days of American television
. there was so much to review that the
small spark of originality seemed a roar-
ing flame. Everything was “live.” People
fluffed lines and the audience loved it.
That excitement of viewer-participation
somehow covered the distance between
home and studio. Today everything is
slick and safe. And anything that is
pre-judged safe cannot be critically exam-
ined, for artistic vulnerability is not only
something a critic probes, it is that
which gives a production life. And it
is this life, or lack of it, which forces
some critics to pan certain productions,
whether they be on the stage or on the
screen. But it has been a long time
since a reviewer said that something on
television was truly alive.
English television offers its viewers a
phenomenal amount of live television.
Reviewing television is a serious task.
People read what has been written and
often heed it. This is the proper climate
for communication between the pro-
ducers of television and the viewer
delegated to comment. This same climate
could exist in Australia if more people
realised that taking chances on television
is not necessarily toying with money that
will go down the drain unnoticed.
Today the ABC is willing to invest
large sums of money in continuing the
presentation of live dramas and comedies.
These productions are seriously reviewed
and the reviews taken seriously by those
responsible. The day that it is decided
television should not take any more
chances, it will roll over and croak. And
with it, the television reviewer, a man
who cannot honestly approach a medium
which, by definition of mass-appeal, will
not make mistakes.
John Crosby, noted columnist for the
“New York Herald-Tribune,” was a tele-
vision reviewer for ten years. He gave
it up because, as he said, “there was
nothing left to review.” What could he
possibly contribute to a medium which
had decided that a drama series viewed
by 19 million people weekly was insuffi-
ciently successful (Playhouse 90, a series
which presented original dramas, highly
over-praised in memoriam, but terribly
important to television while it lasted).
It would be tragic indeed if Australian
television were remembered as the one
art form to which the reviewer and critic
had made no contribution whatsoever.
GEORGE MALKO


SPORT
THE SOUTH FORGES AHEAD
"\/f elbourne has lately been enjoying
one of its brightest periods in sport
since the Olympics. There has been swim-
ming at the Olympic Stadium, and a
match between two national boxing
champions at Festival Hall. There was
news that the Victorian Rugby Union
had at last secured a permanent ground,
admittedly only Olympic Park No. 2,
but big enough, and close to the city.
Country Week tennis was in full swing
at Kooyong, Counlrv Week cricket at
the MCG.
Although a less active event than
the others, Rugby Union’s grasp on a
headquarters oval after years of make-
shift was the most important, meaning
that Melbourne would eventually see
British, French, Fijian and All Black
(NZ) teams playing Australia; —some-
thing the Victorian Football League
cannot match.
Never out of the news, even in the
summer, the VFL had secured its pub-
licity for the day with a decision to allow
only the televising of parts of its matches,
for showing after they were over. To
back its decision, the VFL pointed out
that attendances in 1961 had been about
340,000 higher than in 1960 when
matches were televised from the grounds.
As a visitor from Sydney, I found a
Melbourne Saturday very big on sport,
with one or two smart surprises.
In the afternoon there were inter-club
athletics, grade cricket matches, pro-
fessional running, pennant bowls, an 86-
mile race for yachts on the Bay and
other events for small craft, and nine
races at Moonee Valley, to mention only
the main activities.
At night, Melbourne had the
Australian swimming championships at
Olympic Stadium, trotting ai the Show-
grounds, Soccer at South Melbourne,
speedcars and hot-rods at Maribyrnong,
and the big thing, 35 cycling races at the
Velodrome, with a strong betting ring.
Those three words, combined with
Victoria’s off-course tote system, will
convince some that staid old Melbourne
has really gone to the pack. In fact, it is
a revival of a lapsed custom.
Professional running and cycling have
been betting sports in Victoria for a very
long time, but cycling lost its right when
the North Essendon board track closed
about four years ago. Three weeks ago,
the Velodrome secured a permit to have
betting on cycling and foot-running. The
latter is now only awaiting a track being
laid across the arena.
This should do much for the Victorian
Athletic League pro. runners, if the
purses can be made large enough and in-
terstate men attracted. No other State
has a big city arena for foot-racing, the
oldest sport in Australia, but one whose
participants are still doing most of their
work in the old goldfields towns.
With one exception, Melbourne has
more and better located sports facilities
than Sydney, and the exception is on
water. Even in motor racing, a new cir-
cuit at Sandown Park will open next
month and apply for recognition as
the place for an Australian Grand
Prix, to be run at “Moomba” time, of
course. Sandown Park is a former
racetrack ; 15 miles out, being re-
modelled for both car and horse racing.
Unlike Warwick Farm in Sydney, the
two circuits will be concentric, with all
action visible from all stands.
Several factors help to make sport so
big in the Victorian capital. There is a
vast area of ground dedicated to various
sports between St Kilda Rd and Rich-
mond. The 1956 Olympics placed new
arenas there and improved old ones, all
close to the city. And Victorian football
can be thanked for interesting up to
250,000 men, women and children in a
sport every winter weekend. Somehow,
in Melbourne you never can escape the
influence of the VFL.
FRANK ROBERTS
ABORIGINALITIES
BOOK FOR BUSHWALKERS
Tack Hyf.tt’s newest book, “A Bush-
man's Harvest,” published by
Cheshire, is a series of essays ranging
widely in subject matter, from thunder-
storms to helmet orchids.
The book is very readable ; Mr Hyett
squeezes something enlightening out of
everything he sees in the bush, the back-
yard or his country schoolroom. He is
well informed and writes in a simple
style. Many wonders and oddities of
nature are brought to the light ; I'd
always known that the male platypus has
poison spurs on its hind legs, but I was
very surprised to read that the male spiny
anteater carries them too. There is also
a presumably hypothetical, but very
probable, piece explaining how the
introduced starling has indirectly caused
harm to young gum-trees: the cup moth
larva (stingaree or Chinese junk) feeds
on the leaves of young gum-trees, often
stripping them completely. The pupal
stage of this insect is eaten by tree
creepers, but starlings have decreased the
numbers of tree creepers by taking over
their nesting sites. Hence, as the star-
lings increase, the tree creepers decrease,
the cup moths increase and the gum-trees
suffer.
Mr Hyett wonders how tree creepers
can jump around the underside of
branches without falling off, seeing both
feet leave the branch at once. I. too,
have seen them do this, and wondered,
but careful observation shows that a tree
creeper uses a different technique in
hopping upside-down. Whereas on an
upper surface it pushes itself away from
the branch and forward ; underneath, it
pulls itself upwards, towards the branch
and forward. It releases its grip, moves
forward and begins to fall. Here it
reaches out with its legs and grabs the
bark before it is out of reach.
One interesting essay deals with Dr
Klaus Immelmann’s studies of zebra
finches. Dr Immelmann showed that
their courtship behavior is not necessarily
stimulated by the presence of a bird of
the opposite sex, but only by certain
identifying features. So a rough plasti-
cine model of a bird was enough to set
oft the courtship display, provided that a
red beak, the stimulus, was modelled on
the dummy.
Mr Hyett is not satisfied with current
interpretations of bird songs. Neither am
I. Birds sing all the year round, when
the worries of courtship and territorial
control (the usual explanation) are
absent. We must discover what it is that
starts a bird into song. The stimulus may
not be the same for every species, but
patient observation and sound objective
reasoning should reveal whether the song
is involuntarily triggered oft', as I suspect
(and as with Dr lmmelmann's zebra
finch courtship display), or whether it is
the bird's way of expressing its joy as
Mr Hyett suspects.
There is a particularly good essay about
nesting spurwing plovers and another
about society levels among rabbits, and
many more. too.
The blurb is true enough when it says:
“This, then, is the book for bushwalkers
on field excursions—and the absolutely
ideal gift for all who find wonder and
delight in the plants and animals of the
Australian bush.”
DAVID SCHLUNKE


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £177,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the economic
growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O’Connell Streets, SYDNEY
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
MUSIC
THE DEATH OF BRUNO WALTER
By KENNETH HINCE
The death last month of Bruno Walter
virtually closes a rich and engrossing
chapter of musical history. Though
Walter, unlike Furtwangler and
Weingartner and other masters of his
craft, never saw himself as a creative
musician forced by necessity to live
as a conductor, the true greatness of
his career can be willingly admitted with-
out losing sight of music's ultimate per-
spective and priorities.
Great is a word which, in the long
historical view, is validated in the
works of the master composers, and not
in the lives of the most eminent perfor-
mers. “Really to live in posterity, ’ said
Furtwangler towards the end of his life,
“one completed musical composition is
more important than the life's work of
a conductor.” But, without compromis-
ing this truth, we can see Bruno Walter’s
life as that of a great musician, spent
greatly in the cause of music.
Accident of circumstance, and the
chance of longevity, partly account for
this. Still developing to his last year, still
active in recording his thought and his
performances, Walter was 85 when he
died ; and it happens that his life spanned
a period in which the art of the conduc-
tor touched an unparalleled height.
He was born in Berlin in 1876, and
before the turn of the century had con-
ducted opera in Cologne, Hamburg,
Breslau, Riga and Berlin. His critical
years were passed during the first decade
of this century, when he was attached
to the Court opera of Vienna.
Such experience, for a musician not
then 30, would have been enviable
enough; but in Walter’s case these years
meant far more, because they were spent
under the musical direction of Gustav
Mahler.
Now the fact is that Mahler, whose
name has become reasonably familiar
outside Austria only since the advent of
the modern gramophone record, was
more celebrated during his life as a con-
ductor than as a composer. Records
which slowly spread the fame of his own
music can say nothing of his eminence
as a performer, but this was, mutatis
mutandis, even more significant. For
Mahler brought the art of meticulous,
humble, and inspired performance to a
pinnacle which we have not surpassed in
the intervening half-century.
Within about 50 years of the publica-
tion of Berlioz's treatise on conducting
which established the conductor as an
independent figure of the first importance,
Mahler had carried into effect every one
of the criteria cited by Berlioz as ideals,
and had exacted from his performers
new subtleties of his own devising. The
ancillary function of the conductor, his
duty of service to the master whose
score he was performing, had been pug-
naciously asserted by Berlioz in a milieu
which could hardly have been less sym-
pathetic: Mahler not only made this
vision actual, but contrived to convince
the world at large that his was a reason-
able view, almost the only reasonable
view.
TVTaturally this feat of heroism was not
J achieved without agonising cost to
Mahler himself. But Walter, who was
not only younger but was blessedly free
from the demands of a creative daemon,
learned well the practical lessons which
Mahler could teach, and inherited the
changed climate which Mahler's work
had brought about.
With the death of the Austrian master,
Walter continued to deepen his ex-
perience in the opera houses of Europe.
He directed the Munich opera until 1922,
and spent the balance of the 'twenties
in association with the three opera
houses of Berlin, particularly with the
Stadtische Opera. Though then in his
fifties, he showed no inclination to relax
into the old familiar idioms. Weill, Bar-
tok, Janacek, were named in his operatic
programmes along with Weber and Mo-
zart; he gave the first performance in
Berlin of the first symphony of young
Dmitri Shostakovitch, then hardly out
of the lecture rooms of the conserva-
tor ium.
With the rise of National Socialism
soon after 1930, Walter became one of
many German musicians to leave the
country. About 1933, in company with
Serkin, Adolf Busch, Klemperer. Lotte
Lehmann, Artur Schnabel, he emigrated
for good.
This was not his last brush with
Nazism, for there was a liquidation or-
der out against him when the Germans
moved into Austria just before the war.
Walter was at the time conducting in
Paris (he became a naturalised French
citizen in 1938) and the Nazis contented
themselves with the arrest of his daugh-
ter then at the Walter home in Vienna.
Released only after the difficult inter-
vention of the conductor's friends, she
later moved to Switzerland.
Walter himself spent his later years in
America, where liberal studies, and
music in particular, gained great impetus
from the emigrations from Europe. From
these years he has left us many memor-
able recordings —though one monu-
mental series, as far as 1 know, was not
completed, for he died before recording
the cycle of Mahler symphonies.
Any conductor might have had such
a life, and Walter's importance is not
confined by the same limits as his art.
Certainly he was among the finest of
conductors —gentle, taking infinite pains,
superbly well equipped with technique,
and with all this a literate and learned
man. Fie cultivated no whim or eccen-
tricity, refused to trade on the great
prestige which belongs to the conductor,
and never tried to impose on his audience
a “personality” image. His leading
principle was respect for the art he
served: “Permit me to tell you frankly,”
the Viennese producer Gregor said to
him, “that you have too much respect
for works of art”.
His range of interpretation was wide,
even overlooking his work as pianist
and accompanist: the sephisticated
suavity of his Mozart playing is cele-
brated, and he was as much at home in
the music of yesterday's moderns as in
the opulent textures of Richard
Strauss or the elaborate vistas of a
Wagner opera.
But, close as we are to him in time,
even we can see that his importance is
a bigger affair than any of these virtues,
or all of them together. He has this
greater importance because he, perhaps
more than any other man, lived through
this whole period in which the conduc-
tor’s art helped to reform our view of
music. Almost whimsically, it seems!


the 19th century public transferred
its favors from the tenor and the prirna
donna to the conductor, and the con-
ductor, who of all performers has the
most integral view of music, seized on
this idle whim and proceeded to show
his public what more and what finer
things music had to offer it. A few
decades before Walter's birth public con-
certs were still grotesque affairs, alter-
nating movements of symphonies with
absurd buffooneries; today, almost any-
one with a gramophone has a more
sane and entire view of music than the
typical 19th century professional.
Walter lived through the period which
made this possible, and to a very signifi-
cant degree the period lived in him. His
death is a loss to us of more than a man
of great professional wisdom and very
liberal temper. With him we lose some
real part of the glory of the period.
FILMS
BERGMAN'S DANCE OF DEATH
The Seventh Seal. Gala Sydney.
'The films of Sweden's Ingmar Berg-
man have reached us rather later
than his reputation, and most of the
Bergman films that have come here have
arrived belatedly and out of order, so
that it is not at all easy to get a clear
view of his style and development. But
the four films that Australian audiences
have seen leave no doubt that he is one
of the most talented, individual and un-
compromising artists at work in the
cinema today.
“The Seventh Seal”, arguably the
greatest of them all. confirms this
triumphantly though it is older than
the earlier-arriving “Wild Strawberries”
and “The Virgin Spring.” Compared
with "Wild Strawberries” it is simpler
in its pattern and imagery, and, for me,
more compelling. It has a morality-play
directness suitable to its medieval setting.
Asa Bergman film it is, of course, well
provided with symbolism and allusion.
But it is set in a period that thrived on
symbol and allegory, and the natural
and supernatural interweave con-
vincingly against that background. It
makes its points better than the more
sophisticated—and more labored and
obscure—quasi-Freudian imagery of
“Wild Strawberries.”
Its basic material combines the broad
simplicity of a morality play with the
grotesque horrors of a Dance of Death.
(The Dances of Death painted in Old
Scandinavian churches are said to have
inspired the making of the film.)
A knight returning from the Crusades
with his sceptical squire meets Death
on the shore. He pleads for time; his
faith is beset by doubt and he must
find some meaning in life before he quits
it. “I want knowledge, not belief,” he
says. He challenges Death to a game of
chess, and Death delays the sentence
until the game is lost.
This is the time of the plague. The
knight and his squire (with Death as their
intermittent fellow-traveller) set out
through a land in terror. Wherever they
go they find fear breeding cruelty and
madness; to the knight the heavens seem
emptier than ever, the squire is con-
firmed in his cynicism.
But they find joy and sweetness in a
family of strolling players: an amiable
simpleton of a juggler, with a gift of
second sight, his young wife and their
child. Despite all the horror around
them, their joy in the simple business of
living is unquenchable. Before the end,
the knight finds meaning in his own life
by cheating Death of theirs. The questing
knight and the agnostic squire in the
end share the same philosophy: to “feel
to the very end the triumph of being
alive.”
(Parallels between the plague terrors
of the 14th century and the nuclear
terrors of today are obvious. If they are
intended, Bergman (his own scriptwriter)
does not force them beyond the twice-
stated Apocalyptic text which gives the
film its name . . . “and there followed
hail and fire mingled with blood, and
they were cast upon the earth: and the
third part of the earth was burnt up, and
all the green grass was burnt up ...” )
In synopsis this may seem simple to
the point of triteness. But complex
argument is out of place in the cinema,
whose genius is to illustrate rather than
to expound, to make us feel first and
think afterwards. Bergman knows just
how to do this, and his treatment is
fascinating in its visual images, truthful
and telling in its characterisation and
incident, and rich in implication. Its
first and main impact is visual, as it
should be; its subtlety grows in
retrospect.
The casting is almost uncanny. Swedish
film studios seem to be peopled with
actors of such variety and talent that any
role can be filled so exactly that one
simply cannot imagine another face or
figure in the part. Max von Sydow, lean,
craggy and ascetic, with a face like a
woodcut, is the knight; Nils Poppe is
the eager, simple-hearted juggler; Bengt
Ekerot makes a wonderfully baleful
figure of Death; Gunnar Bjornstrand,
as the tough, philosophising squire, would
have stolen a lesser picture.
MARTIN LONG
THE BOARD-ROOM DIRECTOR”
Twelve years in Australia have
given Englishman Michael Searle
enough insight into board-meetings to
write a set of satirical verses on the
subject. Human nature being much
the same everywhere, his poem ‘The
Boai d-Room Director had enough
universal application to appeal to
London “Punch.” We publish it in
National Notebook on page 4.
Mr Searle is housemaster at
Sydney Grammar School, where he
teaches French and is writing a couple
more poems about "The Board-
Room just for us. He said that
writing poems in Greek and Latin
when he was at school were his first
exercises in verse.
He complains that he cannot find
enough spare time to write. Much of
his time away from schooi is taken up
with the Parnassus Society. "It isn t
really a society with an executive, so
the board-room poems were not
inspired by it, he said. "It's just a
group of us who began giving poetry-
readings with musical prelude and
interludes to the boys at school. From
there we branched out to the Parents
and Citizens. Now we have poems and
music for three separate readings and
we visit various school groups and
music clubs around Sydney.”
Mr Searle said that the other mem-
bers of the society were pianist
Dagmar Roberts, with Joan Bray,
Brinsley Lane and David Lloyd.
The society reads poems by Aus-
tralians Paterson, Wright, and Hope,
as well as ranging through most
English poetry.
This year the society will add to its
repertory Richard Strauss's “Enoch
Arden.” This is incidental music for
piano which Strauss wrote for the
Tennyson poem and Mr Searle feels
sure it will be the first performance
in Australia.
“My brother, Humphrey Searle, the
atonal composer, mentioned this set-
ting of the poem to me and ] got my
mother to go to the British Museum
and get a photostat of the music,” he
said. “I doubt if it has ever been re-
corded and we hope to put it on
tape.”


THE RED PAGE
TOO MANY OPEN MOUTHS
By LES TANNER
Tules Feiffer has at last become an
artist. For many years this was the
last thing he was. At first he was a kind
of masonic handshake: people identified
themselves by whether they knew his
work or not; if you gave a puzzled look,
you were a pretty unhip character.
(This couldn't last for long. One of the
exquisite agonies of having overseas
magazine subscriptions is that one can
only lead fashions until the locals begin
to reproduce them, and, since newspapers
get their copies airmail, sea mail sub-
scribers are at a disadvantage.) Next he
became a conversation substitute. How
many wits were born by a literal ren-
dition of the latest Feiffer dialogue? It
is ironical a man so preoccupied by the
lack of human communication should
suffer this. Now, I think, he’s out of the
woods. There will always be faddists and
Feiffer is not unique in suffering from
them, but we the faddists may have
done ourselves a disservice.
“The Explainers” * makes it clear to me
that the sheer novelty of his work
obscured much of his worth. Since the
book is made up from old strips, novelty
is no problem. Yet there is real fresh-
ness in coming to them again. One is
no longer amazed that someone has
actually had the audacity to do this; one
recognises the accuracy of the vivisection
and squirms a bit under the knife.
The drawings are so often over-
shadowed by his writing that we tend
to ignore them. Feiffer himself speaks
lightly of them. He admits to being
influenced by William Steig, Robert
Osborn and Andre Francois and regards
himself more as a writer than anything.
But his flint-faced executives, civil de-
fence wardens and assorted big wheels
have the strength and acid that bring
to mind George Grosz in his angriest
years.
He can draw that most difficult of
things, interconnected movement. He
brings an almost Japanese eye
to the leaping of his yearning ballerinas.
But above all he has wonderful economy
and simplicity. He draws no more than is
necessary but all that is essential.
I have heard artists object that he is
all talk and no drawing—which is like
IN THE MEANTIME, TO SOFTEN
THE PUBLICS ANTI CORROPTION
NED-IDEALISM, THERE WILL BE
A GROWING LIST OF PEER
GROUP EXPOSURES.
PROMINENT BUSINESS LEADERS,
LEADING INTELLECTURALS
objecting to Daumier because he did
not write snappy captions. It misses the
point, which is satire. This to my mind
is a reflection of the sad state of our
satirical artists (what satirical artists?).
They think you can separate the elements
of satire, the ideas from the drawing,
and that all an artist needs is a good gag
man or script writer and immediately
you are made. Feiffer's writing is essential
to his drawing and both are a vital ex-
pression of his personal view. It is this
personal quality that is missing
from so much of our work. Can you
judge the man by the ideas he expresses?
With Feiffer the answer is an emphatic
yes. What's the answer in Australia?
In some ways you could argue that
the cartoon strip is what artists have
been waiting for for centuries. Artists
who write go back to Michelangelo and
further. Hogarth wrote 1 his little moralis-
ing verses under his prints. Many artists
still cannot resist the lure of a manifesto,
the desire to say in words what they be-
lieve in line. Process engraving offers the
best of both worlds and Feiffer grabs it.
Time was you could dissect society by
drawing the modes and manners. Clothes
reflected the barriers between men. We
don’t wear our barriers now, we live
them and speak them. Try drawing a
boss surrounded by his staff, chances
are the office boy dresses better and
more fashionably. There is probably
more avarice in the faces of the minor
executives —it is in the halts and shifts of
conversation, the elaborate protocol of
knowing just when to agree, that you
can get them best.
How often are we forced back to
the symbolism of the cave man to
overcome this—the big, overbearing,
important figure, the tiny, worthy, un-
important figure. It’s a way out of the
problem but it’s a less and less valid
one. Feiffer can take a kindly boss,
offering cigarettes . . . balm . . .
philosophy . . . the sack, and never
once destroy the believability of the
situation. He gives us ourselves at our
private moments rationalising our way
through a million choices and making
none while we admire ourselves for our
potential.
That he has chosen the cartoon strip
to do this is inevitable; it exactly suits
his needs. Unfortunately, the only re-
sponse Feiffer has engendered here and
overseas has been a transitory flock of
imitators. (I’ve done some myself.) The
real lesson doesn't seem to have been
learned or looked at: if social-political
satire is to have any hair on its legs it
must be the result of a personal search
for a personal form, with a strong
personal indentification with the con-
tent. It will take guts on both sides of the
counter —there are not too many editors
who would hire a Feiffer here or any-
where else if he walked into their office,
and I don't mean oecause of his
alignment.
T suppose you’d call him a Left-liberal
A (whatever that means) in American
terms. He is cynical about both parties
in America and claims the only place his
views are represented is in the US
Supreme Court. He feels (who doesn't?)
that politicians say less than the people
know : “If Adlai Stevenson were a col-
lege professor—or anyone but a
politician—saying the things he does say
he would be dismissed as one of the
average boys. But we hear a politician
saying these things and we say: “What
an amazing man! How great he must
be!’” Feiffer does not participate
directly in politics beyond lending his
name to occasional groups—and he
doesn’t believe in parties and groups, he
only believes in himself as his own
political organisation.
That he does believe in himself is
perfectly clear. Here is Feiffer on Feiffer:
“I think I’m a cartoonist who’s com-
menting in stronger terms on urban
times, on industrial man and woman in
* The Explainers. Jules Feiffer.
Collins. 15s. 6d.


small and large terms, than anybody has
ever done before in this form. I mean
cartoons and commentators, really. I
don’t mean to be modest, because I
feel very proud and almost arrogant
about it. Arrogant almost in an angry
sense. I feel as if there is no competition
and there should be. And goddam it,
there should be other people doing what
I’m doing, because this is the road. This
is what is really happening. I see what
I’m doing really less in terms of a car-
toonist than in terms of a novelist, the
way a novelist should feel about his
work when he writes —except that many
don't today. The form may be cartoon-
ing but the attitude should be that of
a novelist. That is, if I have nothing to
say, I should keep my mouth shut!”
Too many of us have open mouths.
THE MURDERERS
Encyclopaedia of Murder. Colin Wil-
son and Pat Pitman. Arthur Barker
Ltd. 375. 3d.
Ane curious thing about murderers is
that they are such bores. If you were
to meet one of them at a party (before
he became famous) and got stuck in a
conversation with him, you would almost
certainly look for the quickest get-away.'
Murderers are dull, stupid, petty,
unimaginative. Their jobs are usually
tedious, their daily lives dreary. Yet when
they are caught and charged, every detail
about them suddenly becomes fascina-
ting —Christie drinking tea with one of his
victims in a darkened room because he
couldn't, afford to pay the electricity bill ;
Haigh discussing theosophy (over a
rationed breakfast of powdered eggs)
with a woman he intended to dissolve tn
sulphuric acid ; G. J. Smith beating the
plumber down from £2 to £1 17s. 6d. for
the zinc bath in which he planned to
drown his wife ; Hayward rushing to pay
£4 off his hire-purchase debts out of the
£4O he had stolen from his wife whom he
had just bludgeoned to death. The detailed
Court reports become as absorbing as a
Pepys or Jane Austen. Why is this?
One of the standard explanations is the
there-but-for-the-grace-01-God illusion.
On this view we are all potential
murderers and if we haven't committed a
murder yet it is because we have been
lucky. Murderers are supposed to fascin-
ate us because we know we might be
next. The very ordinariness of the
average murderer’s life, his troubles about
money, women, drink, insecurity, are
taken as further evidence that we are
just like them.
But it seems to me these details of their
ordinariness become fascinating not
because we can see ourselves doing what
they did but simply because of the gulf
which for most of us is unbridgeable
between this ordinariness and the
atrociousness of their crime. Murderers
fascinate us in something like the way
freaks, idots and morons do: here are
creatures who are radically different from
the rest of us but still recognisably and
obviously human. The idiot is a man but
he lacks basic intelligence ; the murderer
is a man but lacks a basic instinct against
taking life. Most people in other words,
are incapable of murder. (1 mean cold-
blooded murder not accidental man-
slaughter or killing in self-defence). And
those who say we are all potential
murderers are kidding themselves.
In their different ways, and despite the
fact that they imagine they disagree, the
two compilers of this “human rubbish
dump” as Colin Wilson calls it, agree on
this point. Colin Wilson comes to it via
existentialism. He regards the encyclo-
paedia as “a nursery text-book of
existentialism.” Murder confronts us with
an act of decision about the value of life
more directly than most acts. Just as do
Sale's meditations on hell make us think
about heaven, this encyclopaedia of
killing may make us think about life.
Here we see the hundreds of killers march
by —strangling for £l, drowning over a
snub, axing over a wife's infidelity,
shooting over a broken engagement and
so on. They value life at next to
nothing—a spectacle which according to
Wilson should make you think about the
value you give to life, perhaps lead you
to change yours.
All this is rather hard to take. It
reminds one that whereas a few genera-
tions back people cloaked their morbid
interest in crime and gore by wrapping
sermons around them and using the
murder stories to preach on the folly of
not going to church, they now
do the same thing but preach
sociology instead of religion. In any
case, by agreeing that murderers value life
at nothing, he is saying no more than
Pat Pitman who says, “We are fascinated
by murderers not because they are so like
the rest of us but because they are so
utterly different.” She at least makes her
point clearly.
Beyond this, however, it seems hard to
generalise about killers. Leaving the
comparatively simple cases of maniacs
aside, murder is usually the non-crimi-
nal’s crime. Professional or habitual
thieves or standover men have all sorts
of things in common —most obviously
their ways of earning a living but
murderers are usually oncers who come
in all shapes and sizes and from all walks
of life. (It does seem, however, from this
book that they are on the whole a pretty
plebeian lot, authentic products of the
Lonely Crowd: murder appears to be
fairly rare among the upper and com-
paratively self-governing “inner-directed”
classes.) Pat Pitman has a go at some off-
beat generalisations: drawing on a hint
in Paul de River’s "The Sexual Criminal,”
she suggests murderers have a tendency
to like and to write poetry (bad poetry,
but still poetry), and music. But this
claim is based on so few cases that it isn't
convincing. That Smith, the zinc bath
killer, was good on the harmonica seems
to have as little general significance as the
fact that the names of the murderers in
this book fall in the first half of the
alphabet, A to M.
But in any case it is the details rather
than the generalities that are interesting
in murder cases and this book can be
recommended for details. There are 400
cases covering many generations, though
mainly over the 19th and 20th centuries,
and the immediate generalisations they
suggest are the old ones: that some men
will do anything (Kurten) and some
women will believe anything (Landru).
Most of the murders are the 20th century
ones, the details of which are easy to get,
and so there is an emphasis on crimes of
sexual violence: we are still living, after
all, in the Age of Jack the Ripper, the
founder of modern murder.
PETER COLEMAN
THE FACTIONS
Backbench Opinion in the House of
Commons, 1955-59. S. E. Finer,
H. B. Berrington. D. J. Bartholo-
mew. Pergamon Preess. 60s.
CHnce what Billy Hughes called “an
aimless, spineless, legless, headless
party”—a party without strong discipline
—is ineffective in a system of cabinet
government, the division lists are notori-
ously uninformative sources for the
curious. They reveal differences in the
parties only on those rare occasions when
a split is looming.
However, despite party discipline, des-
pite Christopher Hollis's jibe that it
would be simpler and cheaper than elect-
ing private members merely to keep a
flock of tame sheep and drive them
through the lobbies at the appropriate
times, there are wings, factions, cleav-
ages in our parties. We know it, and
many political commentators make a
good living out of it. But we have no
means more accurate than the inspired
leak with which to measure them.
In “Backbench Opinion,” Professor


Finer and his colleagues have made use
of a measure which is available for
British parties: the so-called Early Day
Motions. These are motions initiated by
backbenchers on either side of the House.
Support for the views expressed in them
is shown by other backbenchers adding
their names, till some “EDMs” have as
many as three hundred signatories.
Of course, these motions are hardly
ever debated. They appear on the Order
Paper, as their name indicates, under
“For an Early Day,” but the Cabinet’s
control of business ensures that the day
seldom arrives. For these purposes this
does not matter. The EDM has become
the conventional way for MPs to show
their dissatisfaction with their leaders’
policies. Since it is spontaneous and un-
whipped, it also allows backbench
opinion on a variety of subjects to be
measured.
Taken in conjunction with other
criteria, such as occupation, education,
sponsorship, these measurements prove
to be a very useful tool. In part, of
course, they confirm what was already
known or guessed at. Some of the find-
ings, however, are quite new. And in a
field open to anyone with an ideological
axe to grind even confirmation is of con-
siderable value.
Take the Labor party. Like several
predecessors, the authors point out that
it can be divided into the Workers, the
Miscellaneous Occupations and the Pro-
fessions. Educationally, there are only
two main blocs: elementary and univer-
sity ; in terms of sponsorship, too, there
are only two: trade union and con-
stituency sponsored. The striking fact is
that these three categories reinforce one
another: “the Labor party contains two
groups whose occupational, educational
and sponsorship attributes so fit together
as to comprise, in effect, two distinct
cultures: a working-class culture and a
professional-class culture.”
When these two “cultures” are ex-
amined in the light of the Early Day
Motions the working-class group emerges
as consistently more radical on material
issues (e.g., cost-of-living, social security),
and the professional group as consistently
more radical on ideological issues (e.g.,
pacifism). Since the issues concerned are
qualitatively different, the extreme views
of each “culture” are backed by the
whole party. Moreover, both time and
the educational sysem are on the side of
radicalism. As older members drop out
we can expect no fall in enthusiasm for
the Welfare State, and a steady rise in
ideological radicalism. It looks as though
the Gaitskellites may lose the battle.
The findings on the Conservative party
are less spectacular (they always are).
Not only were groupings less markedly
cross-related, but the Early Day Motions
reveal no consistent wings. The rebel on
capital punishment will be an ultra on
Suez. There is no talk of “cultures”
here. Nor is there any attempt to pre-
dict the future course of Conservatism.
The most the authors will commit them-
selves to is that if the claims of Europe
and the Commonwealth conflict, if it
becomes impossible simultaneously to
reduce taxes and increase social services,
and so on, then the party may have
difficulties.
What is important about their analysis
of the Conservatives is their conclusion
that “the greater resilience of the Con-
servatives should enable them to survive
these difficulties.” It, too, has been said
before, but this time it is backed by a
scholarly study of attitudes which
explains why the Conservatives have
resilience. “Backbench Opinion” and its
successor (which is to cover the House
from 1945-55) will be invaluable quarries
for the student for many years to come.
P. B. WESTERWAY
SALVAGING HUMAN BEINGS
New Writers 1. Calderbook. 17s. 3d.
fNUR obligations to keep up with the
latest international literary sensa-
tions are becoming a bit heavy. Only
renegades like Henry Miller ever seem to
question the wisdom of devouring millions
of words a year, and I suspect that
publishers are making the most of laying
traps for hungry omnivores. Certainly
this volume is a trap.
Three writers are presented—-a French-
woman, Monique Lange, a young
Englishman, Alan Burns, and an experi-
enced Italian, Dino Buzzati. Of this
trio, only Buzzati really merits the
publicity. He is by no means a new
writer, but he is little known outside Italy
despite his 30 years of steady, stimulating
work. A sort ol good-humored Kafka,
he specialises in weird and terrifying
stories which gain their effect from a
warm, urbane style and a bland attention
to detail. His story in this collection,
“The Scala Scare,” is not his best by any
means, but it still stands head and
shoulders over the other two novellas
in the volume, mainly because it is
peopled by genuine human beings, for
whom Buzzati obviously has a great
respect.
Monique Lange's midget novel “The
Catfish” (which has become the latest
argot term for homosexual) is on the
other hand terribly, terribly new. It
should have met the same fate as its
heroine’s two babies —abortion. Without
a doubt it is the most sensitive piece of
inhumanity I’ve read. Apart from the
dubious virtue of being comparable to
Sagan, sensitivity is the only quality the
most ardent critic could ever grasp at.
In fact the sensitivity is hard to dodge,
so crowded is the thing with all the
profound platitudes of the genre. Its
plot is piddling, its characterisation
childish, and for a nothing-but-sex opus
it is the dullest ever written. Totally
unrelieved by any wit or point, even the
trail to the next bed becomes wearisome,
especially when it is occupied by either
a savage male beast or a sensitive pervert.
After Lange’s piece of rot, Alan Burns
is refreshing. “Buster” is his first novel,
and even if it is yet another portrait of
the artist as a young artist, it shows some
promise of better things. At present he
is at the point of protest, protest against
the inhumanity which the world forced
on the young during and after the war.
His depiction of the problem of a deeply
disturbed generation is moderately con-
vincing and spasmodically brilliant.
Unlike Lange, he is a talented writer,
with an impressive flow. The flow is still
superficial, mainly because he hasn’t a
great deal to write about; certainly
nothing that hasn't already been done
better. The trouble is that he doesn't
like the mess he’s in, but can see no way
out of it. Where humanity should shout
through, we hear only a faint and brittle
cry.
In their various ways all three writers
brush against the overwhelming preoccu-
pation of the modern writer, against the
problem of salvaging human beings from
the wastes of wars, famines, factories,
suburbs, golf clubs and uniforms. Buz-
zati sees them living under constant fear
and frustration. Yet he holds out hope
to them. Either they go down fighting or
they suddenly break into a relieved laugh.
Alan Burns is overcome by the hope-
lessness of it all, and his protest is futile.
The result is too closed and precious,
and a reader is left half the time with
nothing but style, which is a grave mis-
take for any writer to make. No doubt
Monique Lange is aware of the problem,
too, if she has read any books, but her
solution is to leave people in the mess,
and. if possible, add to it. She has re-
cently written another novel, “The Plane
Trees,” which I would urge all those
who respect the memory of Albert
Camus to ignore.
BILL HANNAN


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO MERVYN EDEN DUPLOCK.—TAKE NOTICE
that ELAINE CAROLINE DUPLOCK has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3458 of 1961 on the grounds
of separation If you wish to defend you may enter
an answer in the Divorce Registry Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by the 20th day of April
1962 and obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
from GEOFFREY SEE, GIEI.IS & CO., Solicitors, 28
Martin Place, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO ARTHUR QUENTIN WALTER ABEL WRIGHT.
—TAKE NOTICE that DAWN STELLA WRIGHT
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2783 of 1961 on
the grounds of desertion without just cause or excuse
for two years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter ati answer in the Divorce Registry
Mini Building Macquarie Street Sydney by the 20th
day of April 1962 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from GEOFFREY SEE, GIT.LIS &
CO., Solicitors, 28 Martin Place, Svdnev. —C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
D. No. 313/61.
In Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW ZEALAND.
AUCKLAND REGISTRY.
MARII.YN JOAN THORESEN —Petitioner.
CLIVE MAYNARD THORESEN—Respondent.
TO CLIVE MAYNARD THORESEN formerly of Main
Highway Patumahoe near Auckland in New Zealand
psychiatric nurse and to ANNE MAIN WARRING
SPENCE formerly of' Main Highway Patumahoe near
Auckland in New Zealand spinster.—TAKE NOTICE
that MARILYN JOAN THORESEN of Auckland
married woman has filed a petition for divorce from
CUV I. MAYNARD THORESEN on the grounds of
his alleged adultery with ANNE MAIN WARRING
SPENCE A copy of (he petition with an annexed
notice containing information for you will be for-
warded on application to my office If you do .not
file an answer to the petition on or before the
expiration of thirty days from the date of publication
of this notice the Court may hear ttie petition and
pronounce judgment without your being heard A
marriage is not dissolved until the decree nisi made
in (he first instance is later made absolute and a
decree nisi is not a defence to a charge of bigamy
DATED at Auckland in New Zealand this sixth dav
of February 1962.—J. W. PRESSLEY, Deputy-
Registrar of tlie Supreme Court.
FRIENDS of the abovenamed persons arc asked to
forward this advertisement to them.- MR. LESLIE
SPAKKSMAN GREENDAI.E, of National Insurance
Buildings, 12 O’Connell Street, Auckland, New
Zealand (postal address T.O. Box 431, Auckland, CM.,
N.Z.) is Counsel for the Petitioner.
Divorce Notices
No. 2529 of 1901.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Between
LUOOMIRA KRYNICKI
(otherwise known as Luev Wilson, Petitioner)
A N 1)
VICTOR KRYNICKI
(otherwise known as Victor Wilson, Respondent)
TO VICTOR KRYNICKI (otherwise known as Victor
Wilson) whose last known address was C/- Equitable
Life and General Insurance Co. Limited 88 Elizabeth
Street Sydney in the State of New South Wales. : —
TAKE NOTICE that LUOOMIRA KRYNICKI (other-
wise known as Lucy Wilson) has presented a petition
to tlie Supreme Court of South Australia in a suit m
which she claims against you an order for dissolution
of marriage on the ground of your desertion ar.d
orders for custody of the child of the marriage main-
tenance for herself and the said child and for costs
Unless you tile an answer or notice of address for
service in the office of the Master of the Supreme
Court of South Australia within 30 days of the pub-
lication of this advertisement orders may be made
against you in vour absence. KNOX & HARGRAVE.
Ware Chambers, 112 King William Street, Adelaide,
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MAXWELL CLYDE WILSON.—TAKE NOTICE
that EVELYN EDITH WILSON has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 4255 of 1901 on the ground of
desertion If you wish, to defend you may enter an
answer in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney on or before the
20th day of April 1902 and obta in a copy of the
petition without charge from MESSRS. K.
BRUDENELL-WOODS & CO., Solicitors, of 6a Pen-
fold Place, Sydney. It you do not wish to file an
answer but wish to receive a copy of each document
filed in the proceedings, you should file a notice of
address for service on or before such date.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES - -In Divorce.
TO WALTER BIDDELL late of Wilcannia in the
State of New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that
MARY MAUDE BIDDELL has filed a petition for
divorce No. 33 of 1962 on the. grounds of deser-
tion It’ you wish to defend you may enter an
answer in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court Mac-
quarie Street Sydney, by the 27th April 1962 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
MARSHALL, MARKS, DEZARNAULDS k JONES,
Solicitors, 6< Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
Divorce Notices
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT lf>s9
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA
No. M.C. 13 of 1962
BETWEEN PHYLLIS PIROIS, Petitioner and
RAYMOND CLAUDE PIROIS, Respondent.
TO RAYMOND CLAUDE PIROIS formerly of 20
Amunsden Crescent Warrane in Tasmania. —TAKE
NOTICE that PHYLLIS PIROIS has filed a Divorce
Petition against you on the ground of desertion
Included in the Pet'tion are claims for custody of
your children maintenance for her and for them and
costs AND TAKE NOTICE that if you intend to
defend the Petition you must file an Answer within
28 days of the publication of this Notice at the
Registry of the Supreme Court of Tasmania
Macquarie Street Hobart from which address further
information can be obtained otherwise the Court
may hear and determine the proceedings in vour
absence. DATED this 19th dav of February 1962 —
C. BR E TTIN G HAM -MOORE, Registrar.
IT'S ONLY
i'.
and there's
more to
read for
the whole
family in
ghjghj
Euevybody’s
HELP
LEGACY
ail the year round.
Donations: 169 x Elizabeth St.,
Sydney. BW 2001.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 683
Across
I—Europeans1—Europeans scrutinise some hubbub by birds. (13)
8— Rum opened and let out of the cage. (8)
9- Rotter theme of six notes, musically speaking. (3-3)
10 — Slip lace into flavouring. (8)
11— Lash out at the bowling with a catchcry. (6)
14— Peter, a German actor, is backed by Flynn. (5)
15 — Custom in town. (4)
16 —Hamlet’s birthplace? (3)
19— Assuaged hunger. (3)
20 — Brazil’s capital and Brazil’s most
spectacular city for dash and
vivacity. (4)
21— You needing an ingredient for
seasoning custom. (5)
24 Wine might be the making of
such twin sailors. (6)
25 Inherent concerning the last one
millimetre first. (8)
26 — -Give a girl a gun fleet. (6)
28 — Yet a call is arranged by this
disreputable woman. (5, 3)
29 A transport worker who is hard
to get on with outside Marcus
Clark's (7, 6)
Down
1 — One may swallow such Adelaide
customs. (8)
2 Depressed by those who step on
the gas reactor Alec modified.
(ID
3 The fortune-teller will wear a
grave face in telling such vege-
tation. (4. 4)
4 Entertainer who's yellow after
Christmas? (4, 6)
5 Urchin with the French can be
cultivated. (6)
6 Spot a bishop's responsibility.
(3)
7 Forceful and convincing busi-
ness man. (6)
12 — Rubber stomach to narrow to
a point before tea. (11)
13 — Tell some confederate in a man-
ner not requiring dinner suits.
(10)
17— N.S.W. river wherein you will
find M squared. (8)
18— Eft has it and the French name
which is a replacement for an
old one. (3, 5)
22 — Shipborne snare consisting of
lengths of leather. (6)
23 — Influential Asian I'd hang in
secret. (6)
27 —Monsieur holding a spoil. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 682


FOR SPEED
(First issues off the press)
CONVENIENCE
(Right to your mail-box)
CONTINUITY
(No chance of missing out)
HAVE
vv
1
9
mar 196 Z
V\
Bulletin
DELIVERED BY POST
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
NEW SI li. RENEW AL
(Please cross out one)
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please find enclosed my cheque I money-order for
... • ...... months’ subscription to The Bulletin.
NAME: ..... ... ... .... ....
ADDRESS:
RATES (A/asia): 1 year —£2 125.; \ year—£l 6s.
Post free. British C’wealth : £3 3s. 6d Foreign :
£3 16s
N.Z. CURRENCY (Remit to Box 965, Wellington,
N.Z.): A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d. ; \ year—
19s 6d. British C’wealth: £2 3s Foreign £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether
the subscription is paid direct to The Bulletin
or any newsagent in Australia or N.Z
THE B U L LETI N
IS AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
NEWS MAGAZINE
44 pages of top-flight information. The press,
the radio, TV will dish you up the headline
news . . . but The Bulletin has time to bring
you the news inside the news.
AND ITS PACKED WITH
ENTERTAINMENT
Nearly every facet of modern life is reflected
in The Bulletin’s pages, so no wonder
anyone can find a little of himself—or herself
—in The Bulletin.
