

The Bulletin
Registered in Australia foi transmission by post as a newspaper.
JUNE 23
ONE SHILLING
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
PEACE MOVEMENTS IN AUSTRALIA
• N.Z. NEWSLETTER What the Kiwis think of us • DEAKSN Federation Prime Minister
® FORUM Those Southern ifalians !


111111 l
\lrfm
n
mi
~s±!~s,
•'nVtViV I '■•'■•
»**
&
7^
s®
NS
■
When A.M.P. was founded
in 1849, blacksmiths
looked like this
AMP
V 1568
Now CHANGING A TYRE is a simple enough job
no blacksmith is required. It is simple enough, too, to
make certain that you are protected against every
contingency which may arise in relation to life or property
by calling your A.M.P. man into consultation.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
Australia s largest and oldest life assurance organisation
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY COVE. Offices in cities and towns throughout
Australia and New Zealand and in the United Kingdom
A.M.P. members enjoy the unquestioned security afforded by funds of £550,000,000
which the Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to members.


N.Z. NEWSLETTER Page 16
What the Kiwis Think of Us
As I See It—From Alan Reid in
New York 8
Australia The Growth of Peace
Movements .... 12
Deakin the Dreamer Federation
Prime Ministers Series 18
Robert Speaight—Do Actors Need
Intelligence? 22
TChe Sky Burning Up Above the
Man—by Bernard Coyle 23
US and France Growing Mis-
understanding? 26
Malaya—ls There a Witch Doctor
in the House? 27
- East Germany—The Lonely Ones 28
Venezuela —A Yearning for Cas-
troism 28
Those Southern Italians—No Room
for Xenophobes 30
The Aluminium Business —Cool Cal-
culations in Collins St 40
Irrigation—The Story of McKinney’s
Struggle .... 53
Eugene Goossens 55
That Certain Book—Alan Reid on
Rider Haggard .... 60
•
NATIONAL NOTEBOOK 4
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
AROUND SYDNEY 9
N.Z. NEWSLETTER 16
SHORT STORY 23
OVERSEAS 26
AROUND MELBOURNE 29
FORUM 30
LETTERS 33
WILD CAT 35
SPECULATOR’S DIARY 52
MAN ON THE LAND 53
REVIEWS 55
RED PAGE 58
FEIFFER 63
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY. LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George St., Sydney
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521: Phone 27-5971
Melbourne: Phone MF3341. Brisbane: Phone
B 2691. Adelaide: Phone W 4121-3
Vol. 84
No. 4297
ON THE WATERFRONT...
A FTER a nine-hour conference last Friday between union officials,
ACTU officers and the. Minister for Labor and National Service,
Mr W. McMahon, the Minister undertook to remove the section of the
penal provision dealing with Waterside Workers’ long-service leave.
Continuing its personal vendetta against the Menzies Government,
the “Sydney Morning Herald” stated in an editorial last Monday: “In
one of the most remarkable—indeed, abject—capitulations to industrial
pressure we have seen since it came to power in 1949, the Government
has agreed to remove the penal provisions in the waterside workers’
long-service leave legislation, which came into force a year ago.” Of
course the Government has done no such thing. It merely removed an
unnecessary industrial irritant which provided that wharfies have some
of their entitlement to long-service leave taken away from them if they
participated in an unauthorised port stoppage. However, during illegal
strikes they are still subject to automatic loss of four days’ attendance
money. The Minister has agreed to place before Cabinet the proposal
that this automatic loss of four days, be reduced to three.
The section of the Act which will be removed certainly should
never have been there in the first place and Mr McMahon must share
the responsibility for that. It is common knowledge that the shipowners,
the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority, Mr Justice Ashburner of
the Conciliation Commission, the unions, and the ACTU did not favor
tiie long-service leave penalties provision: it is allegedly the brain-child
of the Secretary of the Department of Labor, Mr H. Bland.
TN no other industry in Australia is long-service leave subject to penal-
ties because of industrial stoppages. Mr Monk, Mr C. Fitzgibbon,
and other union officials successfully argued this principle at last Friday’s
conference. Until April this year, when the Communists in the
Waterside Workers’ Federation went back to their earlier mode of action
and successfully engineered a series of waterfront disputes, the industry
has never in its history experienced a quieter period. And one of the
chief reasons for this has been the introduction of a right taken for
granted throughout all industry—the introduction of long-service leave.
The one legitimate reason the Communists in the Federation had
for their disruptive tactics was the penalties attached to long-service
leave. Because Mr McMahon has at last sensibly agreed to the removal
of one of these the “Sydney Morning Herald” calls this “abject
surrender”. According to that paper one reason for Mr McMahon’s
action may have been to “strengthen Mr Fitzgibbon’s position vis-a-vis
the Communists” which is to make the absurd error that whatever the
Communists are in favor of, Mr Fitzgibbon must necessarily be against.
That surely must be the biggest kiss of death Mr Fitzgibbon has yet
received.
The waterfront industry is surely the most complex in Australia.
Probably no other industry contains so many special interest-pressure
groups pushing their particular claims and demands. Mr McMahon’s
action in abolishing a particular and discriminatory penalty is clear
and simple. He has redressed a wrong. It would nevertheless be naive in
the extreme to expect that as the result of removing a particular penalty
the waterfront will be untroubled by industrial trouble in the future.
After all the Communist Party still effectively controls the
Waterside Workers’ Federation.


National
Notebook
What is the Meaning of Life?
YUe would be the first to admit that
TT M iss Barbara Krivokoneva, in-
terpreter and representative of the
Ministry of Culture with the visiting
Moscow State Variety Theatre, is an
intelligent observer. However, in foreign
countries even the intelligent observer
is hampered by lack of knowledge of
local rules. Miss Krivokoneva went
shopping with some of the women from
the company. “We go to David Jones,”
she said. “Everybody is looking. Nobody
is buying. We are buying, of course,
but nobody else. Then we go to Wool-
worths. Everybody is buying, so I think
people here do not have too much
money for shopping”.
What Miss Krivokoneva, a rather
serious, purposeful young woman,
could hardly be expected to understand
is that shop-strolling—fingering, examin-
ing, even trying-on goods—and com-
parison shopping running from one
shop to another, wearing out shoe
leather to save pence are popular
sports here. (She could hardly be ex-
pected to know that the firm of David
Jones has annual gross sales of about
£40,000,000, which compares favor-
ably with Macy’s, in New York, the
world’s largest shop).
However, Miss Krivokoneva was de-
lighted that there were no queues here.
“In Russia we have the queues, but
people outside don’t understand”, she
said. “It is because people have so much
money to spend that they have to queue
up to buy things in Russia. Everybody
now has money. If you go in the
country, everywhere are the television
aerials. And a bicycle. Not as many
cars as you have here, but there is the
bicycle”.
We had coffee with Miss Krivokoneva
at Hampton Court, King’s Cross, where
the company is staying in Sydney. “Aus-
tralia is a beautiful country”, she said,
looking out into Bayswater Road, with
the buses lumbering past in convoys and
the King's Cross inhabitants at midday
coming to reluctant life, “You have
everything. A beautiful climate, fine
buildings, a wonderful transport system,
but, yet, it seems to me you have no
purpose, no centre to your existence.
“The Ministry asked me to find out
from the ABC and from the impresarios
what could go to Moscow in exchange
for the Variety theatre to represent Aus-
tralian culture, but there is nothing. You
have wonderful artists Joan Suther-
land, people who are world famous. But
where are they? Everywhere, but not at
home, not on your own soil creating
your own culture. How can a country
express itself except through its culture?
We go to ‘Oliver’ at the theatre here.
The actors are from England. What
are they doing in your theatres?”
Although the presence of English
actors on an Australian stage dismayed
the Russians, all the company, none of
whom speak English, enjoyed the play,
Miss Krivokoneva said.
“Of course, Dickens is very familiar
to us,” Miss Krivokoneva said. “We
know all the English authors, right up
to the modern ones.” Which modern
ones? “Well, Arthur Miller and Lillian
Heilman are well known. And, of
course, your Katharine Susannah Prich-
ard. And Doris Lessing. We even read
that Kingsley Amis.
"But, perhaps, best of all I like Gals-
worthy. When you open ‘The Forsyte
Saga’ there is such a wealth of charm,
such depth of meaning, such understand-
ing of human beings.”
Miss Krivokoneva said that she read
a great deal of modern Russian litera-
ture. "Modern Russian writing covers
everything—God, love, life. We Rus-
sians are a very intense people. We ask
ourselves all the time, what is the
meaning of life?”
Three sentimental cheers
for Vic Patrick
man at Rushcutters Bay has re-
covered sufficiently from his mishap
at the Prior-Stevenson fight to file this
belated report on events at Sydney
Stadium the other Monday night.
"Arrived 9.30 p.m. as contestants
entered ring. ‘Rocky’ Gattellari intro-
duced and booed. Alfredo Cota intro-
duced. Referee Vic Patrick booed.
Willie Stevenson revealed as very dark
boy, rangy build. First two rounds quiet.
Prior hurt Stevenson in 4th and Willie
hit him seven times in two seconds.
Thought, another Freddy Dawson. Prior
continued usual two-handed rushes, but
Stevenson not there. Ropes were, luckily
for Sid. First time Prior had met clever
boxer. Confused.
“By Bth, Stevenson tired and slower,
Prior still strong. Unable rush ai ' bustle
this boy, Prior made wonderful dis-
covery. Straight left. Good one too.
Could be turning point of career. Dulled
fight, though. Crowd began count out
fighters, leave. All sure Prior had won
by 11th. Final bell, Patrick tapped
Stevenson. Stunned silence, then roars,
boos, stamping, 9000.
“Felt Prior had won but also felt Sid
been lucky to get Cota verdict. Felt
sorry for Vic Patrick. Great fighter, old
Vic, great referee. Decided give three
sentimental cheers for Vic Patrick.
“Did I fall or was I pushed? Bed of
peanut shells broke fall from bleachers.
As Vic said later in television interview,
one should never let heart rule head.”
Our correspondent ended his dispatch
with a barely legible report that welter
champion Gary Cowburn had lost an
equally narrow decision tc busy Mexican
visitor Cota in Brisbane three nights
before.
“Cota put Prior down twice, Cowburn
once. Gary displayed magnificent
courage 9th round, when Cota tried
finish him after knockdown. Strong
comeback and Cota lucky to win. Crowd
disagreed but made no attempt tear
down Festival Hall. Result hardly repor-
ted in Prior-happy interstate ‘papers.
Should be recorded Cowburn no cream-
puff. Visiting hours here, 3-4 p.m. For
my money, Vic Patrick still great fighter,
great referee. But feel he shou' ’ move
to Brisbane.”
The Doctor who Doesn't Tell?
TVr Coombs’ unilateral invitation to
three Communist Chinese bankers
to come to Australia is not his first entry
into foreign policy, but it is his most
spectacular. At least the Chinese Com-
munists seemed to think it was spec-
tacular. They splashed his invitation on
the front page of the Peking “People’s
Daily” when he made it, presenting it
as an example of Australian friendship
for Communist China. At that stage not
a word came from Australian Govern-
ment sources either because they
wanted to hush the invitation up or
because Dr Coombs had not told them
about it.
A steak in the city
Qo much new building is going on
around Sydney that just when it has
become fashionable to eat in a cellar
(perhaps with the damp of the Tank
Stream seeping through the walls),
buildings with cellars are being replaced
by something in concrete and glass with
nothing except three floors for parking
below ground.
In fact, the shortage is such that when


restaurateur Johnnie Walker decided to
open something on the lines of a Euro-
pean cellar he had to take over the store-
house of a drug company in a building
no more than 25 years old, have arch-
ways built to give the impression of
age, and almost forcibly prevent the
workmen giving the bricks a nice coat
of cement rendering.
However, Mr Walker in the end pre-
vailed and he now has a restaurant full
of atmosphere and full of people eating
steak. The atmosphere is helped by Bul-
letin cartoons, both old and new, and
by the colorful banners carried at the
Palio in Siena. Mr Walker bought the
banners at vast expense in Italy. The
cartoons he got from us.
The hand of friendship
went to the Australia Hotel,
Sydney, to see Mr William Allen
jolly along a round-table of businessmen
into forming an Australian-Filipino As-
sociation. Mr Allen, owner of a string
of private hotels and founder and presi-
dent of the Accommodation Owners’
Association of Australia, has a great
love for the Philippines. This is in spite
of the fact that prewar when he was
working for an American oil company
his ship ran aground on a reef off one
of the islands there and he had a very
wet and uncomfortable few days.
Mr Allen’s association, which seems
to have got off the ground in NSW and
which, he hopes, will be nation wide, has
the twin aims of promoting greater
friendship and more trade between us
and the Philippines. It has the blessing
of the Filipino Ambassador Mariono
Espolito and the acting Consul-General
Pretonilo Dulay.
Last year we sold <£3,739,000 worth
of goods to the Philippines, and they
sold only £407,000 worth, including
mahogany logs, cigars and hemp, to us.
Mr Allen wants to do something to re-
dress that balance.
Mr Allen is not very optimistic about
the Filipinos doing the job of building
up trade with us themselves. “They are
the most charming, the nicest people in
the world”, he said, “but they lack that
drive. They are just not tough enough
to get in there and fight for themselves
so someone has to do it for them.”
In Tasmania
licensed baby-sitters
Labor Government has
A taken a big leap forward in Depart-
ment of Social Welfare paternalism. But
it was only by accident that the disclosure
was made by Chief Secretary Connolly
of regulations covering licensing of baby
sitters.
Commenting on the prosecution of a
woman who was charged with having ill-
treated a child left in her care, Mr
Connolly referred with some pride to the
“protection afforded by recent child-
welfare legislation”. Any person who
undertook the care of children under
seven for payment must now be licensed
by the department, he said. Licences
were issued only after the suitability of
the applicant had been investigated, and
child welfare officers were regularly
inspecting premises used as day nurseries
and children’s boarding homes.
The provisions, he conceded, did not
apply to certain exempted organisations
or to persons who were near relatives of
the children they were minding.
Tanner
..OH, AND HAVE THE BAND PLAY CLICK GO THE SHEARS'—SIGNIFICANTLY"


This Australia
ROYAL COMMISSION
THE CASE OF THE
TWO ABSENT CHAIRMEN
FROM NEVILLE PRENDERGAST IN SYDNEY
SIR ALAN POTTER
Absent
Although Sydney’s two race clubs
have presented what appears to be
a “united front” to the Royal Com-
mission on off-course betting, certain
committeemen are far from confident
that the decision arrived at was the
correct one. Both the AJC and the
STC, in evidence at the Royal Com-
mission, are plumping for off-course
totes as opposed to off-course book-
makers. But at least one committeeman
of each body favored off-course bookies,
and argued spiritedly in defence of this
opinion.
With the AJC committee, the voting
was 9to 1 in favor of totes. There can
be little doubt that the sole “no” vote
belonged to the very top man of the
AJC its chairman, Sir Alan Potter.
Not that Sir Alan is opposed to totes.
Far from it. But where off-course bet-
ting is concerned, Sir Alan had publicly
stated his doubts as to whether a tote
could do the job properly. His main
doubt, voiced in television and press
interviews, in which he spoke as an
individual, not as an AJC committee-
man, was whether the tote could reach
NEXT WEEK S ISSUE
• PROFESSOR JOHN ANDER-
SON—A summing-up.
• HONG KONG REPORT
Mystery of the Refugees.
• MOTORING—A New Column
by Boadicea.
• LONDON NEWSLETTER—
From J. D. Pringle.
• THE AUSTRALIAN AIR
INDUSTRY An 8-page
Survey.
every person in distant towns of the
State, hundreds of miles from a central
tote office in Sydney.
It was the chairman’s personal view
prior to the policy-making committee
meeting that every individual should
have equal opportunity of placing a bet,
no matter which system was introduced.
It was his view that licensed off-course
bookmakers could cater for every
citizen, city or country, and that it
would be a long while indeed before
totes, costly in their installation, would
be built in outback areas where the
small demand would hardly pay for the
expense. However, most committeemen
felt that Victoria’s limping Totalisator
Agency Board was the solution for
NSW. It is interesting to note that
even with TAB there have been allega-
tions of corruption in the Melbourne
PMG’s Department over illegal bettors.
Of great significance is the fact that
AJC Secretary, Mr Derek Glasgow, is
appearing in evidence at the Royal Com-
mission, not Sir Alan Potter. Possibly
Sir Alan might feel that he could not
enthusiastically expound a Club’s opinion
when he really did not favor that opinion
himself. As Sir Alan is the most
experienced man on the committee it
seems a shame that he is not to be
called.
The STC committee held its meeting
to determine off-course betting policy
some weeks after the AJC had decided
upon off-course totes. Had the two
meetings been held the same afternoon
it is possible that a section of the STC
committee, which was opposed to off-
course totes, would have fought even
more vigorously against their intro-1
duction.
But it was already known that the
AJC favored totes, and perhaps in the
minds of some STC committeemen was
the thought that it was preferable for
the AJC and STC to be “united” in
their approach to the Royal Com-
mission. This thought would be import-
ant, particularly if some of the STC
committeemen were “half and half” in
their own opinions.
However, at least one STC committee-
man is still understood to have argued
for a scheme of off-course betting with
bookmakers by phone. The views ex-
pressed by another STC committeeman,
Chairman Bill Longworth, at that policy-
formulating STC meeting also would
have been interesting to hear. At
previous public and semi-private gather-
ings, Mr Longworth had been quite out-
spoken on the subject. He was critical
of the huge amount of money seized by
the Government from the race clubs in
various forms of taxation.
Mr Longworth’s suggestion, in broad
terms, was: “Let the Government keep
what it gets from legalised off-course
betting. But let race meetings go com-
pletely untaxed. Let the Government
look after itself off-course and the race
clubs will take care of things on-course,
and from the extra untaxed money will
be able to improve amenities and prize-
money tremendously.”
So there is advanced a vastly different
theory. The race clubs did present a
common case at the Royal Commission.
But as for them being absolutely united?
... No.
And the way things stand now Royal
Commissioner Kinsella will be deprived
of the evidence of the chairmen of
NSW’s two biggest racing clubs.
EXPLORATION
BONES IN THE DESERT
M R Edw in Lowe, who died in Adelaide
recently at 83, in 1938 triggered
off yet another search for traces of the
explorei Leichhardt, the ninth major
search in 90 years, and like the others,
finally unsuccessful.
Mr Lowe, who had taken over Dal-
housie and Mount Dare stations in the
Far North of South Australia, discovered
in the Simpson Desert a number of skele-
tons arranged in a circle, which made it
appear that the men had been speared
while sleeping around a fire.
Leichhardt’s expedition, made up of


five white men and two aborigines, set
out from where Roma now stands in
1848 to cross the continent but were last
heard of at Innamincka. However, on a
previous expedition a member of
Leichhardt’s party had been speared by a
native and experts didn’t believe he would
have been caught napping twice.
However, the SA Government organ-
ised a search party. When the party
reached the spot the circle had been dis-
turbed, apparently by cattle, but several
bones were scattered about the sand. On
investigation, the bones proved to be
calcified wood. However, the party
excavated a large area and found pieces
of bone (which proved to be aboriginal),
two coins dated 1841, some iron fittings
and leather.
At present, a geological survey unit is
working in the Simpson Desert on oil
exploration. Members of the unit are on
the lookout for any clues in the Leich-
hardt mystery.
UNIONS
A NEW TYPE OF ELECTION
From MUGGA
HThere were some rather unorthodox
procedures in the election for the
executive of the Sydney branch of the
Boilermakers’ Society, the voting for
which closed on Sunday night. Nearly
all of the 5000 eligible voters (of whom
only about 60 per cent, will vote) receiv-
ed three how-to-vote cards: the first was
the Communist ticket, the second was
the “Militant Labor Party Members’ ”
ticket, and the third was the “True
LABOR” ticket. The most noticeable
feature of the tickets was that while
“True LABOR” and the Communist
cards had names for all vacant positions
(two executive officers, one Vice-Presi-
dent, one Assistant-Secretary, and two
Trustees), the “Militant Labor” ticket
suggested no one for the two vacancies
for Trustees and all the other names
were the same as the Communist ticket.
The reason why the “Militant Labor”
ticket carried no recommendations for
the position of Trustees was because the
Communists and “Militants” had agreed
between them that Mr Janies Baird, a
Communist, would fill one of the
vacancies. In other words, instead of
sponsoring a unity ticket, thus incurring
the possible displeasure of the NSW
Labor Party Executive, the Militants
and Communists selected their can-
didates (at a joint meeting) and in the
only position where there was the likeli-
hood of “unity ticket” embarrassment,
the “Militants” tamely agreed not to
run a candidate.
No one around Sydney Trades Hall
has any doubts about this Communist-
ALP collaboration and they recall the
1961 Boilermakers’ elections when so-
called Militants stood on a how-to-vote
card with Communists. But to get round
the Labor Party’s legalistic interpreta-
tion of standing together on the one
ticket, the “Militants” and Communists
stapled together the how-to-vote card
and blandly (and successfully) claimed
that they were not standing together.
One ALP member, Mr R. T. Scott, of
the Guildford West branch of the ALP
(in Sydney’s “Red belt”) was sub-
sequently charged before the NSW
executive but the charge has so far been
successfully buried by the timid right-
wing of the NSW executive.
Even more unorthodox than this
current unity ticket dodge is the three-
page foolscap circular sent out by Com-
munist secretary “Hughie” Grant’s
obedient executive along with a two-page
quarto “Statement by Hugh Grant” in
reply to charges made in the “True
LABOR” ticket outlining the times,
places, and personalities of the “Pro-
gressive Movement” (Communists and
Labor Party members), who have col-
laborated in drawing up unity tickets
in past elections.
It tells how in March this year the
Acting-Secretary, Communist C. Brown,
“approached Bro. P. Hyland (ALP
member and President of the Union)
and requested a deal be made on the
forthcoming elections. This was re-
fused .. It continues by stating that
the Communist Secretary, H. Grant,
“approached Bro. R. Phillips (Union
Organiser, and member of the NSW
ALP executive) with the same request
for a deal, stating that the Communist
Party had instructed him in this
manner”. Again the Communist Party
was rebuffed.
Nothing daunted, Grant then called
a meeting of the Progressive Movement
for April 4 in the Union Assembly Hall
telling the delegates in a circular that
the purpose of the meeting was to select
candidates for the elections. The “True
LABOR” ticket also refers to similar
happenings in the Newcastle branch
elections of 1961.
Grant, obviously worried by the
emergence of a real Labor team, used
his votes on the Boilermakers’ executive
and pushed through a resolution con-
demning the “True LABOR” ticket. In
the circular he states how on the ticket
are “objectionable and untrue state-
ments made against myself, as Secretary
of the Branch, and Bro. C. Brown. .
He then reprints the executive resolu-
tion which is a classic attempt to
befuddle its readers. It contains over 13
points, most of them attacking “True
LABOR”, and contains such legalistic
and propaganda gems as: “3. Our Rules
do not differentiate between those who
are members of a political party and
those who are not. Consequently
membership of any particular political
party is not necessarily a recommenda-
tion for office in the Society”; and
“6. By resorting to the hoary old cry
of anti-Communism, this statement (the
one in the “True LABOR” ticket) serves
the propaganda purposes of the anti-
working class forces, including the
Menzies Government and Santamaria’s
National Civic Council.
Hugh Grant’s “statement”, sent to
members in the same envelope, is a
boiled down version of the executive
resolution and its wording suggests
that Mr Grant also wrote the executive
resolution. Apart from blatant partisan-
ship shown by the executive and Mr
Grant, it is worth noting that such
resolutions are usually offered to branch
general meetings as recommendations.
But had this been done in this instance
it would have been too late in in-
fluencing the election result. (Also in
the same envelope containing the
executive resolution and Grant’s state-
ment is an appeal for £4OO for a Mr
Trevor Thorpe, who has been “selected”
to attend a World Youth Festival in
Helsinki next month. Guess who is
running the Festival? In his appeal letter
Mr Thorpe writes: “The Festival will be
a gathering of the Youth of the world
for the promotion of peace and the
relaxation of international tension.”)
Most probably the NSW Labor
executive will perform its usual ostrich-
like act over these elections and won’t
risk being called “sweepers”, “splitters”,
or “Santamaria” men by expelling any-
one. But the Boilermakers’ Society also
raises one other interesting point which
so far seems to have escaped the Labor
Party’s notice. During the last Federal
election the Boilermakers’ Society gave
£-.00 to the Labor Party and £6O to
the Communist Party. (This is a com-
mon practice in other Communist-ALP
unions). Generally speaking if all Labor
Party men voted together they could
allocate money only to the Labor Party.
Does this mean that Labor Party mem-
bers of union executives, whose vote
allocates election money to the Com-
munist Party, are breaking Labor Party
rules by working for or assisting other
political parties?


As I see it
MENZIES IN NEW YORK-
NO DOUBTS ON LONDON
FROM ALAN REID IN NEW YORK
TI/|r Menzies seems to have lost his
inhibitions about possibly wrecking
the prospects of Britain’s entry to ECM
by a too determined effort to protect
Australia’s present trade with Britain.
Earlier these inhibitions were strong.
Menzies felt that the Prime Minister of
a country as small and comparatively
insignificant on the world scene as Aus-
tralia could not take the responsibility
of standing in the way of a revolution-
ary reshaping of the world as we know
it.
As I see it, the turning point in his
thought processes stemmed from one
thing—he was prepared for Australia to
shoulder sacrifices to benefit the Britain
for which he has a strong devotion. He
did not want to see those sacrifices made,
and would struggle to prevent them be-
ing made, but if in the interests of
Britain they had to be made then they
would have to be faced up to and the
consequences accepted,
But then Menzies started to get baf-
fled. British ministers could lugubri-
ously tell him what British industries
would go to the wall if Britain joined
ECM and they were important British
industries, many of them giving employ-
ment to thousands.
The same British ministers could draw
for him most convincingly the gloomy
side of the picture. They would tell
him how Britain was bound to be con-
fronted soon after it entered ECM with
a grave balance of payments difficulty.
The UK has an adverse balance of
trade with the ECM Six which is cer-
tain to grow worse for a time at least
after Britain enters ECM. They also
stated how the long-range prospects for
a satisfactory outcome of balance of pay-
ment difficulties were at the best an
even money bet.
Menzies, an old dog in the political
game and a shrewd assessor, arrived at
the conclusion that it was the political
rather than the economic factors that
were impelling Britain towards the ECM.
Try as he could Menzies could not
get any satisfaction from British ministers
on the subject of what was in ECM
entry for Britain. lam told that he put
it to Macmillan that he should be given
a list of credits and debits as Britain
saw them, to enable him to clarify his
thinking.
But the British did not produce such
a list. The result has been that Menzies
now feels much freer than he felt earlier
to put his position on ECM quite forc-
ibly. Menzies realised soon after he left
Britain that it was possibly in his power
to wreck Britain's entry into ECM if
he so desired.
Menzies is well aware Britain can only
go into ECM if there is a reasonable
degree of unanimity between the two
major British political parties—Conserva-
tive and Labor —on this issue.
Every indication is that a number of
the Commonwealth Prime Ministers
may have reason for concern in Sep-
tember over the terms offered by the
ECM Six partly under the influence of
a United States which is dedicated to
the complete elimination of all Com-
monwealth preferences by 1970.
If Menzies, as senior Commonwealth
spokesman with a considerable following
in Britain, comes out against the ECM
terms in September there is doubt about
whether Macmillan could push Britain
into ECM over this opposition, par-
ticularly if it is reinforced by objections
from New Zealand and possibly Canada
whose trade also could be significantly
affected.
My present impression is that Menzies
is as determined to carry on the fight as
a section of the British cabinet is to get
Britain into ECM whatever the terms.
Menzies’ discussions in Britain and the
United States are only the first round
in a contest to decide the shape of the j
Western world after 1970. The final!
rounds will not be fought out until j
September.
This puts Menzies in a position in j
which, if he is sufficiently determined,
he can exercise a decisive influence upon
the final ECM decision in September.
SLY GROG
JUNE 24, 1882
A man went into a chemist’s shop on
Sunday, and said to the chemist,
“Pick-me-up.” Then he winked. He
walked away refreshed. Let the be-
wildered printer make enquiries as to
how the Three Stars should be
arranged after this paragraph.
★ ★ ★
YIfRiTES a correspondent: “The
Department of Public Instruction
is the most niggardly of all Govern-
mental institutions. Under Ministerial
responsibility, the first coup was to let
part of the salaries of teachers go into
arrears for six months. Secondly, the
teachers were cut off with four-fifths
of the salaries they had been receiving.
Then the other fifth, after petition on
petition, was given them for one
year. Now, for the second year, the
Minister is supremely deaf to appeals
for that one-fifth. For last year, very
few’ll obtain it. £1 for every hundred
children per year was the liberal fuel
allowance. Last dry summer children
had to carry water to schools in bottles
because the Minister did not ‘deem it
expedient’ to allow anything for the
carriage of water. In such a season this
seems downright cruelty. The Minister
again has decided that teachers must
sweep their own schools. No provision
is made for small matters such as blow-
ing off of shingles, disarrangement of
school time-pieces, of school pump,
etc, etc. And, lastly, teachers are
supposed to fill in two thousand new
forms and documents in connection
with everything conceivable every year,
for which, nor for the transmission of
which, not an envelope or stamp is
allowed. Truly the people of New
South Wales are better payers than the
Government.
★ ★ ★
TPhe Archbishop of Canterbury has
A championed the cause of Colonial
Bishops, who have been blamed in the
Press more than once for frequent
absences and early retirements from
their dioceses. His Grace instanced the
cases of Bishop Perry, of Melbourne,
who served 29 years, and Bishop Short,
of Adelaide, who stuck to his diocese
for about 30 years. It was scarcely fair,
however, to cite these two instances,
when any clerical book of reference
would have shown the Archbishop a
list of Bishops whose terms of office
have ranged from 5 to 8 years. For
19 retired Colonial Bishops, including
the two veterans, Perry and Short, the
average term of service has been eleven
years one month and a few odd days.


Around Sydney
JOBS FOR THE CHAPS
Tn the heart of Sydney stands an
A immense monument to Victorian
architecture, the Queen Victoria Build-
ing. When it was built in the last
century, a babbling market occupied
the site. These days it is occupied by
Sydney’s electricity-distributing agency,
the Sydney County Council. But, to
the onlooker, it hasn’t changed much
—except maybe to become even more
like a circus.
A circus? Well, what other £3O-
- business would conduct
such a fierce feud with its chief execu-
tive that he was afraid to even go on
holidays? Who else would spend the
first £600,000 on a new £4i- million
office—then rent the site as a car-
park? Where else would the £3OOO-a-
-year chairmanship be tossed around
with complete disregard for ability?
These are just a few of the antics
which have at last exasperated even
the true rulers of the Sydney County
Council —the NSW Executive of the
Labor Party. Yes, at long last, I
believe the ALP is going to clean up
the Sydney County Council and put a
stop to all this fun.
It may seem rather strange to inter-
staters that the Labor Party has any-
thing to do with an electricity-distribu-
ting body. You should realise that in
Sydney the Labor Party has a finger in
most pies. Its dominion of the County
Council stems from the fact that the
Councillors are representatives of
other municipal bodies in the County
Council’s area. As most of these muni-
cipal groups are Labor-dominated, it
follows that on the County Council
there are six Labor councillors and
three “Independents.”
All nine sit around the big wooden
table where the Council holds its
weekly meetings. But that’s just a
formality. The real decisions are made
in an ante-room, where the six ALP
chaps hold their caucus meeting the
day before the full gathering. It is in
this ante-room each January that the
Labor chaps select the chairman for
the next twelve months. It’s a pretty
nice job, the chairmanship, with £3OOO
a year for “entertaining”, plus a chauf-
fered car and one or two other smaller
perks. But there’s no nasty squabbling
over it—the boys take it in turns.
Of course the Council also has a
large and experienced staff of full-
time employees to take care of the
day-to-day running. But one should
not expect that the Councillors would
be guided by these experts, men like
Cyril Eric Ranger, manager of the
Council since 1952 now on a salary
of £5BOO a year. For one thing, Mr
Ranger was appointed before Labor
got control of the Council; and
secondly, he doesn’t quite hit it off with
some of the ALP chaps.
So we had the ludicrous situation a
couple of years ago of Mr Ranger
recommending his long-time supporter,
Mr Frank Maguire, for the vacant
position of chief engineer, only to have
the Labor Councillors overrule him
and select Mr G. Washington for the
job. Mr Ranger countered by appoint-
ing Mr Maguire assistant general
manager. But when Mr Ranger went
on his annual holidays last year and
handed over the reins to Mr
Maguire, he was no sooner out of the
door than the council revoked his
decision and put Mr Washington at the
head of the outfit. Mr Ranger scurried
back after only two days’ leave—and,
he hasn’t had holidays since.
feud with Mr Ranger has also
A extended to the question of the
County Council’s accommodation. The
Queen Victoria Building, which now
houses the Council, belongs to the
Sydney City Council. From time to
time there is talk of pulling it down
to make a civic square. So Mr Ranger
decided a few years ago that the
County Council should have a home
of its own. He persuaded the Council
to buy some old buildings a couple of
hundred yards farther down George
Street, opposite St Andrew’s Cathe-
dral, clear the site and hold a world-
wide competition for a design for a
new building.
All went well for a while: the site
was purchased (for £312,000), the old
buildings were demolished (at a cost of
£17,500), the competition was held (at
a cost of £20,000), a £5OOO prize was
awarded, architects’ costs and fees and
legal expenses were shovelled out (to
the extent of about £77,000). I know
that doesn’t add up right, but somehow
the County Council was in for close
on £600,000 when suddenly it decided
to abandon the project. “Too expen-
sive,” was the explanation of the
Councillors when the final estimate of
another £4 million was given.
Reluctantly, Mr Ranger advertised
the site for sale. The ads went in
papers all over the world. A couple of
weeks ago, when tenders closed, Mr
Ranger opened the receiving box —
and found it empty. No one in the
world wants this choice piece of
Sydney real estate. Mr Ranger is all
for going ahead with the new building
scheme. But the Labor chaps won’t
have it. So they rented the site for a
car parking lot!
So we move on to the final act in
this comedy of errors, the act which
could end the entertainment. This
involves the employees of the mighty
enterprise, the people who may not
get a look in on things like new build-
ings but who are used to holding a cer-
tain sway over the Councillors through
their powerful unions, the Municipal
Employees’ and the Electrical Trades
Unions.
For years this strength has put the
employees of the County Council in a
very comfortable position. Among
other advantages most of them receive
long-service leave after 10 years
(instead of 15 for most other workers)
and they were enjoying three weeks’
annual leave years before most other
workers.
To keep their advantage, the unions
decided some time ago to press for
four weeks’ holiday each year.
At a pleasant tete-a-tete in THAT
ante-room, the Labor County Council-
lors agreed to give their employees
this “justice”. All looked happy as
the union reps spread the word around
the Queen Victoria Building. Then
bingo! When the question came up
before the next meeting of the Council
the Labor boys voted with the Indepen-
dents to “defer” consideration of the
employees’ application on holidays.
“Double-cross!” Labor Council
secretary and ALP executive member
Jim Kenny scurried up to the County
Council to demand that the Labor
Councillors fulfil their undertakings.
But the writing on the wall seemed
to become clear at the State ALP
Conference a fortnight ago. On the
recommendation of its officers, the
conference empowered the State
Executive to select Labor’s County
Council candidates in the future. Since
then, prominent Labor men have
almost been talking of Councillors
Ibbett, Doherty and one or two others
in past tense.
PHILLIP


AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTE
OF
POLITICAL SCIENCE
D. A. S. CAMPBELL ESSAY
COMPETITION
With the object of encouraging the study
of political, economic and social problems of
Australia, the Australian Institute of Political
Science has decided to establish an annual
Essay Competition.
The subiect of the essay each year will be
taken from the subject of the annual Summer
School. In 1963 the S ummer School will be on
"Forces in Australian Politics".
The prize is open to anyone under the age
of 30 years.
The length of the essay is to be no more
than 7,000 words.
The prize is £25, plus fares and accommo-
dation for the 1963 Summer School to be held
in Canberra.
For full details apply to the Secretary,
Australian Institute of Political Science, 34
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
NORTHERN TERRITORY
HUMPTY DOO
HAD A GREAT FALL
FROM KEITH WILLEY IN DARWIN
Tock Nelson, the Territory’s Federal
** member and a long-term critic of
the Humpty Doo rice scheme, seemed
to be hopping mad. From his home in
Alice Springs he accused the Govern-
ment of deliberately suppressing the fact
that it forfeited Territory Rice Ltd’s
options over 500,000 acres at Humpty
Doo last January. The Government, he
claimed, was trying to cover up its share
in “the greatest blunder and bungle
perpetrated in 51 years of Common-
wealth control over the NT”.
He called again for a Royal Com-
mission or “some other type of full-scale
inquiry” into the “rice racket”. He said:
“It’s a sorry mess. It even puts to shame
the famous Batchelor pumpkin.” (Re-
ferring to an agricultural project at
Batchelor early this century when the
Commonwealth Government spent
£30,000 for a total crop of one
pumpkin.)
Mr Nelson can claim the distinction
of being among the first to see flaws in
the imposing “front” which Territory
Rice once presented to the nation. The
company was floated some years ago on
a wave of ballyhoo. It was to be “the
world’s greatest single agricultural enter-
prise”. Half a million acres of the rich
black soil Adelaide River plains round
Humpty Doo would become a “ricebowl”
to “feed hungry Asia”.
Grandiose plans were trumpeted to
the Press. Territory Rice Ltd opened a
luxurious office in Darwin and in-
stalled a clerical staff which at one
time actually outnumbered the workers
in the paddy fields. The very magnitude
of the scheme dazzled everyone Here,
in one hit, was the answer to decades of
doomed attempts to establish agriculture
in the North. Businesses readily extended
credit. The Government spent tens of
thousands of pounds on services, even
building an excellent bitumen road —one
of the few in the Territory linking
Humpty Doo with the Stuart Highway,
20 miles away.
Trouble dogged the scheme from the
start. The paddy fields provided new and
tempting wallows for wild buffalo.
Despite grenades and machine gun fire
(even the army was called in to dislodge
them) the geese continued to grow fat
on seed rice. Water rats gorged them-
selves on young shoots. It was lean pick-
ings for shareholders, one of whom lost
a cool million dollars.
For several years everyone knew the
scheme was rocky. But businesses which
had extended credit were too far in
by now to do much about it. And fresh
infusions of American money, plus
cheer-up statements from Sir William
Gunn, kept hopes flickering. Finally the
bubble burst.
Mr Nelson, who had protested all
along at the tieing up of such a huge
area by a scheme which he considered
was uneconomic from the word go, called
for a Royal Commission. He gave some
intriguing facts and figures. Since Ter-
ritory Rice took over 750,000 acres at
Humpty Doo with options over half a
million acres in 1956, the company had
gone £600,000 into debt. More than
£60,000 was owed in Darwin alone.
(Recently Territory Rice creditors were
paid 8/r in the £).
The company ran up trading losses
of more than £1,250,000. Even more
damaging was the blow at public con-
fidence—never very high anyway, as far
as ventures in the North are concerned.
To get out of its mess Territory Rice
Ltd formed a new company known as
Adelaide River Development which took
over certain of Territory Rice’s assets.
Then the accumulated trading losses were
sold to Rio Tinto of Australia Ltd as a
taxation saver. Mr Nelson said this
week: “In other words the Treasury was
beaten to half a million on a project to
which it had contributed more than half
a million in developmental works. If
that money had been applied to system-
atic trials the project would now be pay-
ing and land would be available to
private settlers. As it is, the land is still
being wasted.”
He also claimed the Government had
secretly made arrangements to hand
over to the newly-formed Adelaide River
Development Company an agricultural
lease over 6509 acres and a miscellaneous
lease over 45,000 acres. He said it was
now important that the interests of the
few rice growers at Humpty Doo be pro-
tected. (Four share farmers are
currently planting a total of about 1000
acres annually and they are only on
annual lease tenure with the new com-
pany.)
“The great tragedy of the whole sorry
mess of Humpty Doo is that it needn’t
have happened at all,” Mr. Nelson said.
While not opposed to private enterprise,
he said, this obviously was a project the
Government—since it was doing the re-
search into rice growing in the area—
should have handled. He recalled that in
1960 when he asked questions in the
House and warned that all was not well
with the project the Minister for Ter-
ritories (Mr Hasluck) had replied that he
was “very happy, and I say happy with
full emphasis, about Humpty Doo”.
“Actually the Minister had little reason
to be happy,” according to Mr Nelson.
At that time he had urged an inquiry
into the affairs of Territory Rice and that
the Government take it over as a
national project. That was still the
answer, Mr Nelson claimed. The Govern-
ment should develop the land so private
settlers could move in. “Low-cost land
is vital to development of the Northern
Territory,” he said. “Making that land
available is clearly a Government
responsibility.” He added: “I have urged
for a long time that a Royal Commission
or some other full scale inquiry be
conducted into the Territory Rice story.
I believe the facts now disclosed make
the need for this even more urgent.”
Mr Nelson concluded that he had no
doubts rice growing eventually would
be a major industry in the north. But
the Government would have to take a


far more active part in developing it,
and whether the product can be marketed
economically is another matter. Certainly
the Territory’s experience has been that
markets in Asia, while possibly “un-
limited”, are also impoverished and often
don’t pay enough to make exporting
there worthwhile.
The Philippines cattle trade collapsed
because Indonesia could produce better
beef cheaper. We still send cattle to
Hong Kong, but prices often barely cover
expenses.
As far as rice is concerned, what little
Humpty Doo has produced in recent
years has been too costly for Asia to
buy, and has been siphoned off instead
to an artificially - created Government
market in New Guinea.
The model for future planning should
be Kimberley’s rice project in WA.
Meanwhile the great experiment at
Humpty Doo has ended, leaving in its
wake a handful of share farmers, miles
of fences and power lines, and the geese
which, having survived all efforts to
dislodge them, again hold sway over the
deserted paddy fields. The failure has
been tragic and costly. Its repercussions
may haunt Northern Territory land
developers for decades to come.
THE VICTORIAN ALP
HOW TO HELP THE COMMUNISTS
FROM MUGGA
HThe Victorian ALP Executive has
struck a serious blow at its members
who are working to win control of the
Melbourne Branch of the Waterside
Workers’ Federation from the Commun-
ists at the elections on July 2. It has
knocked out of the fray Mr Leslie
Stuart, 43, one of the key figures in
the waterfront struggle by ending his
membership in the ALP.
Mr Stuart played a big part in the
campaign which had ALP member Mr
C. Fitzgibbon elected as the WWF gen-
eral secretary last year over the Com-
munist candidate Mr T. Nelson. The com-
mittee formed in Melbourne to support
Fitzgibbon had the satisfaction of seeing
him receive a majority of votes in the
port. In the light of this, its secretary,
Mr M. O'Neill, announced it would
carry on and try for a clean sweep at
the next branch elections. Plans were
made to run a full slate of candidates
with the aim of defeating both the
DLP “industrial groupers” and the rul-
ing Unity Ticket officials, irrespective
of whether the tickets they held were
in the Communist Party or the ALP.
The committee decided that only ALP
members would appear on its ticket; as
a result, some of its supporters in the
Fitzgibbon campaign took out ALP
membership in order to qualify to con-
tinue working for ALP control of their
union.
Stuart, for the past eight years honor-
ary secretary of the coal section of the
Melbourne WWF, joined the West
Heidelberg ALP branch last year and
renewed his membership for 1962. How-
ever, on March 23 last he received a
registered letter from State ALP secre-
tary, Mr Cyril Wyndham, asking him
to attend a meeting of the party’s dis-
putes committee about his “application
for membership”. Stuart replied by
pointing out that he was already an ALP
member and had campaigned for the
party at the last three elections. More-
over, he said Mr A. Calwell would vouch
for him personally.
A second letter from Wyndham said
that application for membership did not
operate until approved by the State
Executive. “The reason why approval
has not been given was because we de-
cided to investigate your activities prior
to affording you the privilege of joining
the party. The 1960 State conference
laid down that persons who were mem-
bers of the DLP or who were associated
with organisations connected with the
DLP must be investigated before they
are admitted into membership of the
party.” Wyndham went on to allege that
Stuart had been active in the waterfront
“industrial group” and that he had
written for its news-sheet.
Stuart went before the disputes com-
mittee at a 90-minute hearing and denied
he had ever belonged to another political
party before joining the ALP. He said
his contributions to the grouper paper,
which were signed, were only porting
articles. The disputes committee recom-
mended that this member be “not ad-
mitted,” a decision which was supported
by the executive and later by the 1962
State conference.
It was a victory for Messrs “Curly”
Rourke, “Ted” McCormick and Frank
Vincent, the trio who are the main ALP
component of the “unity ticket”. All
three had sided with Nelson in the elec-
tion for general secretary and Fitzgib-
bon’s victory shook them badly. It point-
ed to the fact that they themselves could
be voted out of their union positions if
the ALP committee continued to operate
on the waterfront.
They counter-attacked with charges
that ALP members who were not pre-
pared to follow their own example in
collaborating with Communists were sec-
ret “groupers”. At the recent State ALP
conference Rourke and Vice-President
Bob Brebner attacked new recruits to the
Labor Party. This was a thinly disguised
onslaught on O’Neill’s supporters, but
the main weight of the campaign was
thrown against Stuart on account of his
popularity on the wharves. He had been
a member of the WWF executive in
1954-55 and experienced observers say
that, politics aside, he has a personal fol-
lowing worth several hundred votes.
Keeping (or kicking) him out of the
ALP removed a star from O’Neill’s all-
ALP ticket.
Last week Stuart publicly denied he
was ever in the DLP and challenged
the new ALP State president Mr R. W.
Holt to debate the issue with him. He
said he was taking advice from Fitz-
gibbon to appeal against the Victorian
decision to the Federal ALP Executive.
This, of course, takes time and there is
also the chance that the federal body
would merely refer the question back to
the unsympathetic Victorians. “I have
no fight with the ALP”, Stuart said, “my
fight is with Mr Holt and his supporters
on the Victorian executive.”
HISTORIC FIGHT
AT FORD'S
Tn last week’s Bulletin Mr Justice
A Moore was misreported. In the
article “An Historic Fight at Ford’s”
he was quoted as saying that the Ford
Company had acted 'in an unreason-
able way’ in refusing to grant the
same privileges to the Clerks’ Union
as held by the Vehicle Builders’ Union
and other production line unions
which since 1949 have been entitled
to insist on compulsory unionism.
What Mr Moore actually s. id was:
“In my opinion the appeal should be
dismissed and I will publish my reasons
later, but I would like now to say this,
-he action of the members of the
union on the waterfront in i 'usirg to
handle Ford cargo is to be deplored,
particularly in view of the history of
good relations between the Clerks’
Union and shipowners on the water-
front in Melbourne. However, the
present situation has been brought
about because the Ford Company has
voluntarily granted compulsory union-
ism to its production union but has
refused to grant it to the Clerks’
Union. Such a discrimination must
almost inevitably lead to industrial
trouble, particularly as compulsory
unionism is a matter which this Com-
mission, because of statutory limita-
tions, cannot properly arbitrate upon
because it cannot grant.”


PEACE MOVEMENTS IN AUSTRALIA
Jazzing up the "Peace" fronts
By PETER KELLY
« rip« he artists you will hear today
I know what an heroic struggle
JL the fight for Peace really is”—
the compere told a Trocadero full of
peace-lovers in Sydney last Sunday.
With about 1200 other lovers we tapped
our feet, sang folk songs and listened to
professional entertainers at Sydney’s first
“Sing in time to beat the Bomb” rally.
Rubbing shoulders with Australia’s only
Lenin Peace Prizewinner, ex-Labor
Senator W. Morrow, watching with the
young enthusiasts from the Eureka
Youth League, listening to a modern
hymn of peace (“The Song of Hiro-
shima” or “Never Again the A-Bomb”),
jovially passing around the National
Peace Petition—war and the usual Com-
munist peace propaganda seemed far
away.
But tucked in the middle of the new
look in Communist peace palliatives was
the same old message with an up-to-date
twist; all of us must aid the cause of
peace bv working for Mr Calwell’s
nuclear-free Southern Hemisphere zone,
tell the UN that Australia would join
the non-nuclear club, “actively assist in
securing a test-ban agreement”, and gen-
erally spread the message “Better Red
than Dead”.
The whole afternoon was a smooth
and successful Public Relations’ venture
by the Communist-front NSW Peace
Committee. Money was raised for the
Moscow “Peace” Conference, badges for
the Communist Youth Festival in Hel-
sinki were sold, a suburban-to-city
“radial march” was advertised, as well
as the 200-mile relay walk to Canberra,
names were joyfully given to assist in
the “work of Peace”, and we all sang
24 times “I ain't gonna study war no
more” to the tune of “Down by the
river-side”.
"I j-jis particular rallv was orsanised
by the Communist-front organisation, the
]s| e w South Wales Peace Committee for
International Co-operation and Disarma-
ment. But it would be wrong imagining
that every organisation somehow or
other involved with "Peace’ is Com-
munist contrived. Nor is that the situa-
tion in Britain where the Peace business
is in the big time.
For five successive years in Britain
the annual rite of spring has been the
Aldermaston march a 54-mile hike by
14.000 or so people, mostly young, who
walk from the site of Britain's nuclear
weapons research headquarters to a rally
in Trafalgar Square. These CND
marches popularise the objects of the
British Campaign f_r Nuclear Disarma-
ment which aim to persuade the Con-
servative Government, and especially the
British Labor Opposition, into adopting
a policy of unilateral nuclear disarma-
ment, removing all Ai rican nuclear
bases from British soil and persuading
Britain to withdraw from NATO.
It was not until 1961 that the Com-
munist Party in Britain really hopped on
the band-waggon of the CND chiefly
because unilateralism and its off-shoots
provide a convenient way of attacking
Britain's membership of NATO. Only
last month the British Labor Party
executive warned Canon Collins and
Lords Chorley and Russell against spon-
soring the World Congress for Disarma-
ment and Peace in Moscow from July
9 to 14, on pain of expulsion. Although
the Labor Party has not yet acted against
the CND itself, it has proscribed the In-
dependent Nuclear Disarmament Elec-
tion Committee and started an inquiry
into Communist and Trotskyist infiltra-
tion of the nuclear disarmers.
In Australia, unilateralism and peace
have not reached British proportions al-
though there are now some signs that
unilateralist sentiments are growing. The
CND symbol is now vying for position
on brick walls alongside “Yanks go
home”, “Out Menzies". and “Post no
Bills Not even Ashton's’’.
It was not until March of this year
that the Sydney CND had its inaugural
meeting in a Mosman home. It was at-
tended by a score or so of the more
stable fringe of Sydney’s semi-Bohemi-
ans as well as some ALP members, some
lapsed Trotskyites. plus several “respec-
tables" like Professor S. E. Wright (NSW
Peace Council) and a member of the
Society of Friends (Quakers). There is
no rigid committee running the CND
and it functions extremely 10, ly. For
all that, its members have been unusually
active. On Friday, May 11. they organ-
ised a lunch-hour leaflet demonstration
outside the Commonwealth Parliament
offices in Martin Place. About 40
people, half of them students, handed
passers-by their tract outlining the main
aims of the CND; Australia will refuse
to possess, use or manufacture nuclear
weapons; Australia will not allow the
use of its territory to other nations for
nuclear bases (this, of course, could only
mean Britain or America); Australia will
not allow her administered territories


to be used for nuclear tests or nuclear
bases and will refuse assistance or ap-
proval of nuclear tests anywhere.
The Sydney CND also took part as
“a separate entity” in the “radial walk”
held in Sydney from April 28-29. The
uniform of the marchers was the CND
smock white on black while the
others, mostly from the New South
Wales Peace Committee and a few re-
spectable do-gooders, wore white
smocks. Some carried banners with “Fall
in or Fall Out”, “Arms Race or Human
Race”, “One Flash and You’re Ash”,
and similar slogans. The idea of the
march was that eight different groups
would walk in single file from different
points around Sydney’s outer perimeter
(the area a nuclear bomb would com-
pletely devastate) eventually converging
upon Sydney’s Trocadero where a Peace
Rally would be held. More than a thous-
and people in all took part and as they
marched on the first day, Saturday,
newspaper posters told the marchers of
the “Second US test” prompting one of
the marchers to write: “As we entered
the Trocadero, the rain started to gently
fall . . . coming in from the Pacific,
was it radio-active?”
A letter to Sir Garfield
A lthough the Sydney CND has not as
yet been swallowed up by the Com-
munist Party’s New South Wales Peace
Council, it seems only a question of time.
Like the CND there are other peri-
pheral groups involved in the peace
movement. One of the oldest is the
Women’s International League for Peace
and Freedom, which, because of its
title, is often mistaken for a Communist-
front organisation. The WILPF was
founded at the Hague in 1915 by Ameri-
can, British and European women dedi-
cated to the abolition of war. They aim
at establishing “those political, economic,
and psychological conditions . . . which
assure peace and freedom.
In Australia there are four branches
of the WILPF and their membership is
roughly 300. Most of their peace activi-
ties are educational and each month
sees members meeting in each other’s
homes discussing peace and related
topics. As individuals, some of them
stray into the big-time peace stunts, such
as the “radial march”, and other activi-
ties run by Communist “Peace” Coun-
cils; but they generally confine them-
selves to writing protest letters to MP’s
and to Cabinet Ministers.
The Sydney branch recently wrote a
letter to the Minister for External Af-
fairs, Sir Garfield Barwick, when the
Australian Government told UN Secre-
tary U Thant it would not be a mem-
ber of the non-nuclear club. Like most
other peace movements it is against
foreign bases on Australian soil. The
Australian WILPF will be host to the
International Chairman, Mrs Else Zeu-
then of Denmark, at its first national
conference on peace in Sydney in
August. The WILPF is proud of the
fact that two of the only three women
to have won a Nobel Peace Prize were
members.
Peace movements have a generally
middle class tone and sometimes strong
religious overtones. Most Australian
churches have their own peace societies
or organisations. For instance, the Meth-
odists have their Peace Fellowship, the
Anglicans have their Pacifist Fellowship,
the Congregationalists have their own
groups, while the Quakers or the Society
■)f Friends, a small organisation in Aust-
ralia, have meetings devoted to peace.
Although small in number and of rela-
tively little influence in their own
churches, they all help swell the number
of peace movements in this country.
Along with similar organisations like the
Peace Pledge Union, the Fello hip of
Reconciliation, the 500-strong Pacifist
Movement of Victoria, they preach their
message there must not be another
war.
For example, each year the London
Peace Society gives prizes to Australian
school-children and students for essays
on topics like “How can we create bonds
of friendship with South-east Asia?” (A
Mrs Septimus Harwood left money to
the London Peace Society for this pur-
pose.) The biggest of the small-time
peace magazines is the “Peacemaker”, a
four to eight page printed publication
distributed by the Peace Pledge Union.
With a circulation of around 2,000 it
was originally started about 1940 by the
Rev. Canon Coldrake of the Australian
Board of Missions.
But it is not the genuine pacifist
societies or the peace organisations of
the churches which beat the peace-drum
loudest. Most of the proliferating peace
committees, the increase in marching
demonstrations by peace-lovers, the
nation-wide peace petition now circulat-
ing in all States, the “spontaneous” fac-
tory resolutions being passed and sent
to Cabinet Ministers, MP’s, and passed
by the “ordinary workers on the job”
are the result of careful planning by
full-time Communist Party members
pulling the strings in the big-time peace
movements.
Most of the existing Communist-front
Peace Committees can be traced back
to the Australian Peace Council formed
at a meeting in Melbourne at the home
of the Rev. Mr Victor James in July
1949. Members included the Reverends
F. J. Hartley (Methodist), Dickie (Pres-
byterian), James (Unitarian), the his-
torian, Brian Fitzpatrick, C. B. Christ-
esen, Editor of “Meanjin”, J. F. Cairns
(now MHR), housewives, journalists, and
trade unionists. Following this meeting
the cottage-peace movement got under
way with the formation of suburban
Peace Auxiliaries. This was all a build-
up for the first big Peace Congress held
in Melbourne on April 16, 1950. The
“Red” Dean of Canterbury, Dr Hewlett
Johnson, was the main performer.
The next big peace meeting was the
Australian Convention on Peace and
War held in Sydney in September 1953.
Although there were peace conven-
tions held in Australia in the years fol-
lowing, it was at the “Stockholm Peace
Congress for International Co-operation
and Disarmament” (organised by the
World Peace Council publicly declared
a Communist-front by the Australian
Labor Party) in July 1958 that the Aus-
tralian “Peace Movement” really got
under way. The sponsoring committee
for the Stockholm Congress in Australia
sent two delegates, the Rev. Mr Frank
Hartley and Mr Sam Goldbloom. This
Congress rejected a resolution condemn-
ing Soviet action in Hungary, but at-
tacked “American Imperialism” over US
intervention in Lebanon.)
The Hungry Sheep
VI/hen these two gentlemen arrived back
” in Australia a sponsoring commit-
tee was set up to plan an Australian and
New Zealand Congress for International
Co-operation and Disarmament. The
Rev. Mr Dickie of Melbourne became
Chairman, the Rev. Mr Hartley, Treas-
urer, and Mr Goldbloom was the
Organising Secretary. A number of
prominent Australians genuinely interest-
ed in peace and who had originally
sponsored the Congress caused a sen-
sation when they publicly withdrew their
sponsorship after discovering it was just
another Communist-front. Those who
withdrew sponsorship included the Angli-
can Dean of Melbourne, Dr Barton
Babbage, and Sir Mark Oliphant. Sydney
University’s Professor of Moral and
Political Philosophy, A. K. Stout, said
he was withdrawing but appeared to sit
on the fence. The Congress was held in
November, 1959.
Professor Macmahon Ball, who had
himself been used in the past, wrote
at the time that “the sponsors who with-


drew were men of high intelligence, and
it greatly baffles me that they were so
slow to discover what should have been
evident from the beginning to any norm-
ally alert observer that Communists had
initiated the conference and were doing
most of the hard organising work.” He
also said his “own closest contact was
with the Citizens’ Conference in which
the Communists seemed to make their
biggest effort to arrange things the way
they wanted them.” The people at the
congress, he said, respond simply and
quickly to the revivalist technique which
the Communists employ with such skill
. . . the more impressionable weep and
tremble as they give their testimony for
peace. The hungry sheep look up and
the Communists are there to feed them.”
Although the ANZ Congress was
the biggest “peace” circus ever
held in Australia, it did not realise all
the hopes that the Communist Party
had for it. The reason was that about
80 people, ALP members, University
students and staff members, Catholics
associated with the “Catholic Worker”
and “Prospect” and ex-Communists who
had gone to the Congress in good faith
became so sickened by the stone-walling
manoeuvres of the Congress organisers,
that they walked out and held their own
protest meeting chaired by Dr Babbage.
Purpose achieved
TTere is a sample of how tightly the
Congress was controlled: at a meeting
of the writers’ and artists’ section an
ex-Communist and the present editor
of “Overland”, Mr Stephen Murray
Smith, attempted to add to a resolution
a sentence to the effect that the freedom
of writers was not yet everywhere what
it ought be. This innocuous rider was
bitterly attacked. Led by Frank (“Power
Without Glory”) Hardy and supported
by the Communist Party’s Cultural Com-
missar, Judah Waten, the resolution was
thrown out by 22 votes to 10.
But it seems clear that the main pur-
pose of the Melbourne ANZ Congress
has been achieved: the institution
throughout Australia of a network of
permanent “Peace” committees, con-
trolled by Moscow through their agents
in the World Peace Council, and sup-
ported by a section of the ALP.
Joint Secretary G. R. Anderson, Mr
Morrow, Mr Broadhead, a girl secretary
and some “part-time assistance” from
women make up the staff of the NSW
Peace Council in its office at 421 Sussex
Street, Sydney. Here, “Peace Action,”
competently edited by Mr Broadhead, is
produced and circulated to nearly 8,000
readers.
According to Mr Anderson none of
the staff is a “full-time” member of the
Communist Party but there are Com-
munists on the executive committee. To
“avoid rigid constitutional problems” the
executive committee elects itself and
there is generally not much competition
for the jobs. There is no formal mem-
bership of the committee.
Mr Anderson, DFC and twice-men-
tioned in dispatches, is an ex-squadron
leader who has a long history in the
peace arena. Formerly Deputy Secretary
of the NSW Clerks’ Union and a Secre-
tary of the Mosman ALP, he was an
executive member of the Australian Con-
vention on Peace and War, he worked
at the Asian Pacific Peace Bureau, and
he has appeared on platforms at innum-
erable functions appealing for money on
behalf of peace. He told the Petrov
Commission that he had unsuccessfully
tried to get delegates to a Peking Peace
Conference by chartering a plane and
flying them direct to China, with or
without passports or visas.
There is no interstate executive for
the various Peace Committees but there
is close association and they generally
“work in” together. Funds at the
moment are being raised to send Mr
Morrow and other delegates to the Mos-
cow conference in July and to another
conference in Tokio in August. The
Peace Council in South Australia also
intends sending Mr S. Lovibond, a lec-
turer in Psychology at the University of
South Australia, to the Moscow confer-
ence. (Mr Lovibond is at present on
leave.)
When the Soviet Government broke
the moratorium on nuclear testing last
year, the NSW Peace Committee, almost
certainly for the first time, mildly criti-
cised the Soviet. Mr Anderson gave me
a copy of a letter which he said was
sent to Mr Khrushche/ last October. In
part it said: “The New South Wales
Peace Committee expresses its deep con-
cern to the Government of the USSR
on the recent resumption of nuclear
weapons tests, including weapons of un-
precedented power. At this stage of the
stockpiling of nuclear weapons by four
great powers, we, as a leading committee
of the Peace Movement, do not under-
stand why such a decision had to be
made.” What Mr Khrushchev did with
the letter is unknown.
Generally speaking, the Communist
peace rackets find a variety of “peace
parsons” to give them respectability.
From time to time, they also pick up
VlP’s in the sporting, business, and
academic worlds who are either too busy
or too naive to see that they are being
used.
“The Great Betrayal”
instance the peace-fronts are agents
A for Soviet foreign policy. The
latest example of this is a 20-page
glossy pamphlet entitled “The Great Be-
trayal German Rearmament,” written
by the most professional of the Austra-
lian peacemongers, Mr Goldbloom. It is
in three sections: “The Great Betrayal”,
“The Berlin Crisis and East Germany”,
and “A German Peace Plan”. It reads
like Mr Khrushchev at his best and is
little more than a Public Relations hand-
out from the Russian Embassy. Western
Germany, according to Mr Goldbloom,
is. still the paradise for Nazis, fascists,
war-mongers, anti-Semites etc.
Relying mainly on the evidence of ex-
Communists, two Victorian ALP mem-
bers charged Mr Goldbloom with being
a member of the Communist Party be-
fore he rejoined the ALP in 1956. The
main witness in the case said he had
attended Communist “fraction” meetings
of the Victorian Peace Council with Mr
Goldbloom from 1952 till 1956 when
the witness resigned from the Communist
Party. Although there were plenty of
other willing witnesses around (so- e of
whom had signed affidavits alleging Mr
Goldbloom’s membership of the Com-
munist Party) the Victorian ALP exon-
erated Mr Goldbloom.
But while many of the activities of
the Communist controlled peace fronts—
as distinguished from non-political
pacifist movements seem harmless in
themselves they cloak a very real pur-
pose which includes continuing the Cold
War. attacking the Western alliance, at-
tacking NATO, SEATO. ANZUS. and
other Western treaties. No mention is
ever made of the Warsaw Pact, or of
Soviet intimidatory action in cities such
as Berlin. One glance at “Peace Action”
is sufficient to confirm the origin of
the articles. In the June issue is an article
on “Whose War Game in Thailand?”
The article finishes by saying: “Two
questions are worth repeating: What is
Australia’s policy in South-East Asia?
Whose war game are we playing?”
With the governments of nations be-
coming more concerned about the effects
of nuclear testing, and the consequent
hotting up of the anti-missile missile
race, peace is the urgent concern of
everyone. But it is difficult to see how
joining in Communist peace-front activi-
ties will help anyone except the
Soviet government.
Don’t be worried about your pimples
kids
Or the colour of your hair
Think about the fate of man
With too many bombs to spare.
For a bursting pimple or a biting flea
Are nothing very much
If men are robbed of courage
Like rabbits in a hutch.
If you don’t take time to ponder
What makes the bombs so bad
The final facial will be sudden
And disastrously sad.
From “Peace Action”.


ORB
LYSAGHT
answers every modern roofing problem
i -
%
.y
it %
> wmm ®
§|gy£g£:
r
if ?
m
fM§
&A
mm
W>;y/
C
*3Sj*£
< j£?f .;f "is
SPI
Lysaght galvanized
CORRUGATED
Every detail of the home at left is
completely modern and harmonious
including the Lysaght Galvan-
ized Corrugated Steel Sheet roof.
Whatever style of low-pitched roof
you may prefer, Lysaght Steel Sheet
will express your ideas perfectly. It
is your most practical choice, too.
Completely fire-proof, shatter-proof
and weather-proof, Lysaght Red
Orb keeps its original pleasing
appearance with a minimum of
maintenance. Available prepainted,
if desired, in a long-lasting stove-
baked finish.
m,..
m
m
X
SI
<SM
*Aust. Patent No. 222046 (other Aust. and overseas Patent Nos. granted and pending).
Lysaght
KLIP-LOK*
SIXTEEN
Designed especially for modern low
pitched roof lines, this interlocking
galvanized steel decking of excep-
tionally attractive appearance pos-
sesses remarkable structural
strength. Suitable for any roof pitch
down to I°, Klip-Lok Sixteen is
supplied and delivered to the site
(Metropolitan areas, Capital cities)
in unbroken lengths up to 50 ft.!
This naturally results in quicker
roof erection and reduced labour
costs. Equally important, Klip-Lok
Sixteen is fixed to roof members by
hidden straps eliminating the need
to puncture the deck.
Illustrated above are two homes, LlO5 (top), LlO6
(bottom), selected from the 1962 Lysaght Home Plans
Portfolio. This Portfolio is available to all home builders
without charge. Simply fill in and mail the coupon at
right. As an additional service complete working drawings
and specifications for any Lysaght home illustrated are
also available through the “Australian Women’s Weekly”
Home Plans Service for as little as £lO/10/-, which
includes help by qualified architects in altering the
selected plan to fit in with your wishes and to suit your
site.
For full information, ’phone or call at your local
“Australian Women’s Weekly” Home Plans Service.
JOHN LYSAGHT
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
Offices at Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide and Fremantle.
wm
_§
■r-sy
SEND FOR FREE HOME PLANS
John Lysaght (Australia) Limited
50 Young St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me, free and post free, your new 1962
Lysaght Home Plans Portfolio, comprising a series of
architect-planned homes styled in the modern manner
and designed to be built at moderate cost.
NAME -
ADDRESS -
STATE
L3CC


New Zealand Newsletter
WHAT THE KIWIS THINK OF US!
In a country where “Dad and Dave" has run as a radio serial since 7929
they think we are crude, uncouth, too Americanised...
From MERVYN CULL in Auckland
“T see the Aus-
tralians are
doing some plain
talking to the Brit-
ish over this Com-
mon Market busi-
ness,” said the
man on the bus.
“A pity we aren’t.”
And • unwittingly
he had laid bare
the fundamental
difference of ap-
proach between
Australia and New
Zealand to the
European Econo-
mic Community
negotiations.
If Britain joined the market and
abolished Commonwealth preferences,
New Zealand would be hit far harder
than would Australia. Britain takes
almost 60 per cent, of our total exports,
and most of her purchases are farm
products which continental countries
would be only too willing to supply.
New Zealand, unlike Australia, with
her diversified industries and diversified
outlets, virtually has all her eggs in
one basket, a policy which for many
years Britain encouraged. Moreover,
New Zealand loyalty to Britain has
been excelled by no one. Now, we feel,
we have a right to some consideration
from Britain.
And the Government at least believes
we will get it. Mr Sandys and Mr
Heath, among others, have assured it
that our somewhat vaguely defined “vital
interests” will be protected, and Mr John
Marshall, our Minister of Overseas
Trade, has said “Britain will not desert
us, whatever the outcome of the EEC
negotiations. We just cannot imagine
this happening.”
In all fairness, probably the Govern-
ment and much of the country honestly
believe this. They just cannot conceive
of Britain’s failing to “see them right”.
This attitude has been the basis of our
official approach to the Common
Market.
Not that we have settled back and
put our feet up. As the Government
continually reminds us, reports on all
developments from our own and from
British officials, are flooding Welling-
ton daily, and the Government main-
tains the closest touch with London.
But where Australia has felt impelled
to speak out in the plainest terms
against the inherent dangers of the
market to her interests, New Zealand
official pronouncements, based on
quiet convictions of British sincerity,
have been more restrained.
This combination of unquestioning
loyalty, unshakeable faith in British
Government integrity and political
naivete is not peculiar to the Common
Market negotiations. It is traditional
with us and has been endorsed time and
time again. It was expressed most
succinctly by Mr Savage, our Prime
Minister when the last World War
broke out, who said: “Where she
(Britain) goes, we go; where she stands,
we stand”.
Mir Mervyn Cull is an experienced
New Zealand journalist, living in
Auckland, who has worked in Fleet
Street and travelled widely including
the USSR.
It has all been very commendable;
perhaps even inspiring. Certainly it has
been very convenient. Whitehall policy
may not always be the best, but at least
it has saved us the trouble and expense
of formulating and fulfilling for our-
selves policies on matters of little
immediate concern to us.
It is not an unreasonable attitude for
a country whose entire population is
about the same size as that of Sydney.
Certainly since the mid-thirties, and
more especially since the last war, our
interest and part in international politics
has grown, but for all that, as a country
we have had to grapple with few inter-
national problems on our own and have
been content largely to follow Britain’s
lead.
On the other hand, Australia, partly
by design and partly by chance, has
developed a less inhibited form of
nationalism in keeping with her greater
size and strength, her strategic import-
ance and her political experience. She
has a mind of her own, and accordingly
has adopted a more sophisticated
approach to international affairs, in-
cluding her dealings with Britain.
To the New Zealander, whether we
admit it or not, Australia has come of
age while we still like to feel that Mother
Britain is comfortingly close when the
light goes out.
This dependence has helped to
nurture among us the belief that we
are closer to Britain, in all but the
geographic sense, than any other
English-speaking part of the Common-
wealth. At the same time, we tend to
look upon ourselves as Mother’s
favorite.
Australia and Canada have grown up
and moved away from home. New
Zealand, the baby of the family, has not
yet reached that stage of development,
so identifies herself closely with Mother.
And naturally she likes to savour all
the benefits of the role.
When we travel in Britain, and else-
where, we emblazon our cars with New
Zealand flags, our lapels with silver
ferns and tikis, and we have a reputation
for performing a Maori haka at the
drop of a hat. And nothing pleases
many of us more than to be described
as “More English than the English”.
Unfortunately, the British rather en-
courage us to act this way. Many an
English landlady, for instance, will
accept us as “nice” merely because we
announce the fact that we are “from
New Zealand” when she will reject
others out of hand.
This feeling of being Mother’s favor-
ite has accompanied a certain smug-
ness in our attitude to some other mem-
bers of the Commonwealth. Many of
us, for instance, look upon the Aus-
tralian as a somewhat lower form of life
than New Zealanders.
To many New Zealanders, the average
Australian appears as loud-mouthed,
aggressive and somewhat uncouth. And,
of course, in the Australian we see our
own vices beer-drinking and horse-
racing carried to their logical con-
clusion, and we hate to be reminded
of it.
Yet for all that we feel that the
Australian is probably the most generous
and hospitable person in the world. Our
attitude is that, although the Australian
would lift the fillings from our back
teeth if he had half a chance, he would


Jiou fRINCH %
EASY way
k
&
lurj
No textbook can teach you to SPEAK a foreign language
correctly. To do that you must HEAR the rhythm, the
lilt, the everyday speech by ordinary people. Lingua-
phone teaches you by this quick, thorough, effortless
method. ' You learn by LISTENING to the voices of
expert native teachers on gramophone records, following
the words in the illustrated textbook. In half the usual
time, this method enables you to SPEAK, READ and
WRITE the language—and above all, to understand it
when spoken. There is no formal learning. From the
start you are thrown into the conversational atmosphere
of the boulevard and cafe.
Put in fifteen min-
utes a day, and in
a few weeks you
can express yourself
freely in the lan-
guage of your
choice. Find out all
about the unique,
modern method of
learning. Post the
coupon below for a
free illustrated
booklet describing the Linguaphone language courses
and Week’s Free Trial Offer.
Linguaphone
For LANGUAGES
- —POST THIS TODAY— —* —-
Linguaplione Institute Pty. Ltd., 1 Fleming- Place, off
359 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me without obligation your free, illustrated
booklet of the Linguaphone method of learning languages.
I am interested in FRENCH □ GERMAN □ ITALIAN □
SPANISH □
or
(34 languages available)
NAME
ADDRESS
8.23/6/62
also cut off his arm if it would help us
out of trouble.
As for Australia itself, we listen
somewhat enviously as we are told that
it is showing all the potential for
economic development that the United
States displayed at the turn of the
century; and more than a little enviously
we watch foreign capital being pumped
into Australian development projects.
But all too often, too, like the
financially unsuccessful businessman
who says one cannot be honest and
make money, we ask: “Who wants to be
like the United States anyway?”
Australia today is probably far too
Americanised for the average New
Zealander’s taste. We see the American
influence in Australian business, leisure,
buildings, clothes and culture.
We appreciate that the United States
must inevitably play a dominant role in
this part of the world in the future, but
we will resist such influences to the bitter
end. Thanks all the same, we say, but
while we can we will stick to the British
way, if you don’t mind.
“Dad and Dave” and “Dr Paul”.
For all that, however, New Zealanders
have long looked on Australia as a land
of opportunity. Thousands whose talents
have been suffocated or ill-rewarded here
have crossed the Tasman to find fame
and fortune. Some 60,000 of them are
supposed to be living in Sydney alone.
And the bright lights of Sydney still
have an irresistible glow for thousands of
New Zealanders wanting to make a
reasonably cheap trip abroad. For them,
so often, Sydney represents the Ultimate
—in fast-living and sophistication.
Nor have our reservations about Ameri-
can influences affected our business deal-
ings with Australia. We still buy from
your Australia about four times as much
as it takes from us. Moreover, we have
much respect for many of the things
Australians produce.
The Holden car, for instance, is as
popular here as it is anywhere, and it
would be a good deal more popular if
our overseas balances would allow us to
buy more of them. At present, a new
Holden Special costs us about <£Al35O
—roughly the same price as a Ford
Zephyr Mark II or a Vauxhall Velox.
Secondhand, a two - year - old Holden
Special with 10,000 miles on the clock
can fetch £AISOO.
On the cultural side, Australia still pro-
vides us with about 90 per cent, of our
professional theatre. J. C. Williamson’s,
an Australian company with a large New
Zealand shareholding, has long been a
household word in this country.
Well-produced entertainments, and the
not so well-produced, are assured of good
audiences here if for no other reason
than that there is little else “live” offer-
ing. The Australian production of “My
Fair Lady”, which was presented here
as well as it has been staged anywhere
else in the world, had a longer season in
Auckland than it did in Melbourne when
the sizes of the two populations are
taken into account.
In radio—and here the term “culture”
is used in its loosest possible sense—the
picture is much the same. A large pro-
portion of our radio drama is of Aus-
tralian origins. “Dad and Dave”, for
instance, has been running here since
1929; you can still get it on your dial
somewhere, if you persevere. Such serials
as “Dr Paul” have been running far
longer than probably our Director-
General of Broadcasting cares to
remember.
Listed in this way, the differences be-
tween Australians and New Zealanders
may seem formidable. But the fact that
basically we have so much in common
probably exaggerates them.


DEAKIN THE DREAMER
By M. H. ELLIS
Alfred Deakin.
as seen by Phil May
The second in a series on Australian Prime Ministers
l UUhen Alfred Deakin was at Melbourne
"" Church of England Grammar
School he was accounted dreamy,
nervous, emotional and lacking in appli-
cation. Tall, slender, serious, dark-eyed,
the nicety of his manners earned him the
nickname of “Miss Deakin”.
He was self-possessed and could stand
up to an angry headmaster with aplomb.
He joined the Volunteers at 14 by giving
a false age and left them after three years
just as he was becoming eligible to be
legally recruited. He was a prodigious
walker and an inveterate arguer among
his few intimates.
But his main characteristic was his ten-
dency to dream. He himself later wrote
that it was “deliberate ... by daylight
and especially at night.” He spun
“romance after romance based on my
favorite books, in which I was the cul-
mination of all heroes, and in turn every
kind of noble being, supplied with
appropriate surroundings and adventures
to display all the heroisms and all the
virtues, winning a long line of peerless
beauties under the most desperate and
amazing circumstances.”
“In truth and in fact,” he declared, “1
lived in these creations more than in the
world in which I moved, an often silent,
absent and contented visionary.”
He read everything that came his way.
The authors who appealed to him most
were the poets. He was especially fond
of Shelley, Wordsworth and Pope, whose
translation of the Iliad he knew almost by
heart. In prose his favorites were Bun-
yan, Swift and Defoe who, he asserted,
stood “supreme... for vividness and
visualising” and who make their readers
“see their heroes and their adventures
more clearly than we see our neighbors
now.”
His story as a student-at-law at Mel-
bourne University paralleled that of his
schooldays. His matriculation pass was
adequate, but not brilliant. He took
honors in history, but not in English. He
gave more time to the poets during his
law course than to Justinian. He dis-
covered Carlyle who “left an indelible
print” on him, and later Ruskin. Theatri-
cals proved more attractive as a way of
spending time than the study of torts.
He formed the only real friendships
of his life with two other youths, Arthur
Patchett Martin, poet and biographer of
Robert Lowe, and David Mickle, icono-
clast, persistent arguer, whose son later
became a well-known writer. They were
three “inveterate talkers”.
He had already achieved experience as
a public debater in the debating society
of the Southern Volunteer Rifles. His
maiden speech had supported capital
punishment. He had backed the South
in a debate on the American Civil War
and—of all things—opposed Protection!
In the Eclectic Society at the University
he came under the influence of Professor
J. H. Pearson, author of “National Life
and Character”, who sensed his quality.
His later university years were blurred
by distractions caused partly by family
misfortunes. He taught in private schools,
a night school and a school for street
arabs. He served for a time as book-
keeper in a business in which his finan-
cially easy-going father had disastrously
invested money to the family’s great loss.
He qualified for the Bar at 22, though
again without much distinction; and in
Temple Court he settled down to read, not
law, but Ruskin, Buckle and Landor, and
to sketch out the basis of a mighty work
on the history, philosophy and principles
of poetry which reached “only” the
length of a thousand pages of closely
written foolscap before its author
abandoned it. Looking back on it from
mature years he considered it “much
too diffuse, much too confused”.
Unable to live by philosophic treatises
on poetry alone, he turned to journalism,
in the hope that the Melbourne “Age”
whose main proprietor, David Syme, he
had met through a mutual interest in
“spiritism”, would let him write articles
on art and literature. Politics, he stipu-
lated, were barred.
Syme and Windsor, the curious philo-
sopher who edited the “Age” at that time,
gave him everything to write, politics
included. Syme soon took him a
“young genius”, said his brother George
—under his wing, set him thinking poli-
tically, performed the miracle of trans-
muting an ardent young freetrader into a
confirmed protectionist. He then launched
him at the end of 1878 as a Reform
League candidate into a by-election for
West Bourke, a mixed multiple elector-
ate running from Bacchus Marsh to
Essendon, in the height of the period of
the greatest political turmoil known to
Victorian history. Knowing nothing more
of practical politics than “where Parlia-
ment House was,” he plunged into the
fight with an heroic independence that
eschewed financial help from either the
Liberal organisation or Syme.
The deciding factor in drawing him
into the fray seems to have been that “my


policy from 1876 onwards was largely
deflected from the conservatism of the
day by my admiration of Professor
Pearson” who was away in London with
Graham Berry, the Liberal Premier,
importuning the Home Government for
support in the famous “Black Friday”
crisis over finance with a recalcitrant
Legislative Council.
The sensation of Deakin’s novice can-
didature at 22 years old in a rough and
tumble campaign during a turbulent
period when some people professed to
believe that Victoria was close to Civil
War, and of his ringing oratory, was
nothing to that produced by his defeat of
a rich Melbourne merchant, Robert
Harper, by 97 votes. But he caused an
even greater sensation when he moved the
Address - in - Reply and closed his able
speech by announcing his resignation. He
felt that his opponents had some just
ground for their argument that a small
shortage of ballot papers at one booth
rendered the by-election eligible to be
declared “no fight”.
He had to fight four elections in 18
months before, in July 1880, he was elec-
ted for the dual West Bourke seat with
Sir Bryan O’Loghlen, Bart, Berry’s
Attorney-General, as his stablemate.
23 hours out of 24
VTever again was Deakin to be defeated
in an election in the whole of 42
years of his political career. He had now
charted his path. Accepted as an orator,
and as an independent who refused to
pledge himself to the whole of his party’s
programme, fearless, he was set on his
course for life.
Every ambition he had dreamt up for
himself had proved impracticable of
attainment. Business had “seemed to my
adolescence as to the ancient Greeks,
unworthy of a free man and inconsistent
with independence.” Journalism had
“gratified, amused, rewarded but dis-
gusted” him, though he must still live by
it for a space. Experience had destroyed
his “boyish ambition to become an actor”.
He thus, to use his own words, had at
length “become a politician from 1880 to
1890 by sheer force of circumstances,
rather than by independent choice”. Yet,
as he told Walter Murdoch 30 years
afterwards, “though a politician 24 hours
a day, ‘my heart’s in the highlands’ of
letters 23 hours out of the 24.”
Even though he was a politician against
his will, however, there was from the first
no doubt about his gifts. The reports of
the debates of his initial sessions bear
little mark of his presence in the House.
He was mainly a silent member during
his first year or so of apprenticeship.
Rabbit extermination seemed to be the
only thing that had moved him to oratory.
But behind the scenes he was quick to
exhibit his greatest aptitude, acting as a
conciliator to bring together the forces of
the sore-tried Graham Berry, his leader,
and the moderate Liberals behind Sir
Henry Wrixon, when a split developed
among Berry’s followers over the relig-
ious issues involved in the passage of the
Education Bill. Though he failed in his
self-appointed task, Berry was impressed
and offered him the Attorney-General-
ship when he had been in the House only
a few weeks and was still only 24 years
old. He sensibly refused office, but from
then onward no ministry was formed in
Victoria until he entered the Federal
Parliament without his being offered a
portfolio. This was the more astonishing
since he was a confirmed lone wolf, a
fearless stander-on-principle, as ready to
change leaders on a matter of conviction
as, say, Winston Churchill.
Only a year after his election he virtu-
ally wrecked the Berry Government when
he flew in the face of his leader, and of
a2Bto 8 vote in the Government caucus
which determined to abandon the Legisla-
tive Council Reform Bill when the
Council sent it back to the Lower House
in tatters. He opposed the policy of the
“Age”, which paid him, and was under
threat of the loss of his daily bread. But
in Parliament, by his vote, he forced a
conference of both Houses and virtually
destroyed the Government. It survived
his action only a fortnight, but like Syme,
Berry could not afford to bear him too
much ill-will.
It was a landmark in his life that in
1882 he married Miss Martha (Pattie)
Browne, daughter of a prosperous Mel-
bourne merchant against her parents’ will.
The match was ideally happy and his
three daughters were a life-long comfort
to him. One married Herbert Brookes,
one Sir David Rivett and one Sir Thomas
White.
Presently he had settled down to the
routine of the House and quickly mas-
tered the arts of parliamentarianism. And
when the O’Loghlen Government was
wrecked in 1883 and Service and Berry
combined he became—still only 26-
Commissioner of Works and Minister for
Water Supply to which offices later in the
year he added the Solicitor-Generalship.
He progressed to the leadership of the
Liberal Party and to the Attorney-Gen-
eralship and senior minister, short of the
Premiership, in the Gillies-Deakin coali-
tion Government at 30, holding office
until 1890.
The New Moses
Tn those days in his dream he was a new
Moses seeking to provide water for the
multitude in the Victorian Zin along the
northern marches of the Colony. He
sailed to California as head of a Royal
Commission on Water Supply, met the
Chaffey Brothers, wrote his report (“Irri-
gation in Western America”), passed the
Irrigation Act and thus became a father
of irrigation in Australia. Later, after
Mildura had been founded, he roamed
Italy, Egypt and India, writing inform-
atively about irrigation and British rule
in India.
This roaming was an addendum to his
visit as a delegate to the Colonial Confer-
ence of 1887 in London at which he
played the role of the young David, to
Lord Salisbury's Goliath —a role vitally
important to his future fame and career.
The conference of 121 representatives of
the United Kingdom and the British
Colonies was “the first attempt to bring
all parts of Her Majesty's Empire into
joint deliberation” on matters such as
commercial and social ties and defence.
Victoria sent four delegates, but they all,
except Deakin, accepted the viewpoint
that nothing should ruffle the calm of the
“deliberations” which seemed to take
shape as a series of docile acceptances of
Lord Salisbury’s dicta.
The one warrigal in the otherwise
united tribe proved to be Deakin, the
youngest of them all, who showed himself
not at all averse to tackling Goliaths with
his sling. He lectured the Colonial Office
on its methods. He called loudly for Aus-
tralian and Imperial Federation. He
pulled the British Prime Minister Salis-
bury’s beard for scolding Victoria for re-
luctance to see the New Hebrides handed
over to France. He, in fact, changed a
flaccid meeting into one at which were
heard the first assertions by a colonial
minister of the rights of the colonies to
be consulted on matters concerned with
their own welfare and security when
treaties were made, the first modern over-
seas claim by a colonial to a share in
the making of Imperial world-policy.
The rebel sealed his independence by
refusing the K.C.M.G. offered to him,
as he refused all future offers of honors.
He went to London, 30 years old, scarcely
known outside the Australian colonies
and within them mainly for his introduc-
tion of irrigation to the dry lands of the
Murray. He came home “the chief per-
sonal success of the Conference”.
It was more important that he returned
with the ideals of Australian federalism


and self-defence woven into the fabric of
his dreams. At home he had not made
the ground he might have done because
he was not a sound party man. There
could be little accord between the circles
that financed parties and an “ultra-
radical” —his own term —who patronised
the Anti-Sweating League, introduced the
pioneer Factories Bill with all its restric-
tions on hours of labor, health conditions,
employment of children and cheap
Chinese workers, even though he might
be forgiven for being the legislative origi-
nator in Victoria of official prevention of
cruelty to animals.
His support came from various radical
groups, the largest of them the “workers”
of the trades union movement, but these
helped to wreck his coalition Govern-
ment when he exercised his conviction
that “the first duty of a Government is
to preserve order” and called out a large
military force to prevent or quell violence
during the great seamen’s strike of 1890.
Different from Other Lawyers
After the fall of the Gillies-Deakin
ministry, bad times following a
period of wild land speculation “stripped
me and many others” (Deakin wrote), “of
all we had” and assured that their “state
socialism received a check”, so that they
were “facing adversity here in private
and in public”.
He was now forced to earn his living
at the Bar and the qualities that had
made him a superb subordinate in
ministries served him in good stead as
a junior counsel. Mr. Justice Higgins of
the High Court said that Deakin’s mind
travelled in a different direction from a
legal mind. Whereas the lawyer sought
to strip away all the leaves and flowers
from the essential stem, Deakin could
“take a stick as bare as Agamemnon’s
sceptre and make it bloom”.
However, he could grasp vast and
intricate detail and the faculty to do
this was very much responsible for the
historic victory of his leader, J. L.
Purves, QC, in the gigantic suit in which
Speight, the Victorian Railway Com-
missioner, sued David Syme and the
“Age” for libel.
He developed a lucrative practice but
he obviously took little interest in it. A
copious note writer, Professor Murdoch
assures us that his notes carry no trace
of his legal activities. There is not even
a reference in his personal reflections on
his client, Deeming.
In politics, he was now giving him-
self over entirely to the cause of Federa-
tion—“Deakin’s Dream” to his sneering
opponents. During the debates of
Parkes’ conference in the Blue Mountains
in 1888 on the Chinese question, the
ideal had become associated in his mind
with the White Australia policy. And
the Federal cause had acquired machin-
ery for its promotion at the Australian
Natives Association meeting of 1889
which he also attended.
From now onward he had his active
part in the Federation movement, born
of Parkes’ approach to Gillies for a con-
ference on the subject while Deakin was
still in the ministry in 1890. It was
Deakin who probably persuaded Gillies
to agree to the meeting and he who at
the conference which resulted moved the
resolution which brought the first Federal
Convention of 1891 into being.
In the next decade he did more than
anybody else among the leaders of the
movement to give the Federal aspiration
light and life and to lift it from a mun-
dane plane into the realm of sacred
causes.
He endowed it with many of its most
appealing war-cries and with much of its
historic vocabulary. Parkes, for instance,
invented the term “The Commonwealth
of Australia”, but it was adopted in pre-
ference to more prosaic titles only because
of Deakin’s tenacious insistence in the
face of strong opposition. It was he, too,
who thought of a compromise which
would place the capital of the new Fed-
eration in New South Wales but far away
from Sydney.
His greatest service in both the con-
ventions of 1891 and 1897-8, nevertheless,
was as the composer of disagreements
which existed sometimes as fiercely be-
tween delegates from single colonies as
between those of different colonies.
Leader of the Team
He was not on the constitution-draft-
ing committee of either convention,
though he was always ready during the
debates with constitutional devices and
historic precedents. He could be said,
to be in a sense, the publicist of both
conventions in Victoria where he was the
leader of the incomparable team of
speakers who tirelessly stumped the
country in favor of the Constitution Bill.
He alone was probably the savior of the
Bill during the last three days of the
meeting of 1898, when it seemed that
all was lost and that Victoria’s parlia-
ment might join that of New South Wales
in opposing the measure which was to be
sent for assent to a referendum vote. His
speech at the Australian Natives Associa-
tion Conference at Bendigo rallied Press
and public and saved the day.
He has left us his own Federal Story
and his own vital, but sometimes mordant
and unfriendly, pictures of the leading
participants in both Conventions. He
was the only Victorian to sit in both and
it is curious to recall that he was elected
only in third place among the Victorian
team to the definitive one of 1897-8. He
has, in his narrative, almost effaced him-
self from the tale, save for some modest
references to the part he played in forcing
the virtually unamended Bill on the
Imperial Parliament after the Australian
electors had approved it according to law
at the second attempt.
Modest Financial Independence
Federation was achieved when he was
A 44 years old and it would have been
well for him had he then retired quietly
to the pursuit of his hobbies in the
“highlands of literature”. This he could
easily have done, since a friend of his
father had left him a legacy which gave
him modest financial independence. But
he accepted nomination for the Ballaarat
(as then spelt) Federal seat, beating
R. T. Vale by 4655 to 1594 votes. He
held the seat through four elections, the
second time unopposed.
He suffered at the outset all the strain
incidental to his loyal fight to secure the
first Prime Ministership of the Common-
wealth for Barton, in the face of Lord
Hopetoun’s self-committal to Sir William
Lyne. A more selfish man might have
himself coveted the office.
As Barton’s Attorney-General he had
the enormous historic task of laying the
statutory bases for all Australia’s national
policies and governmental systems, pro-
tection and imperial preference, financial
relationships with the States, White Aus-
tralia, Federal arbitration and national
defence, of the plan of which, including
that for the Australian Navy and com-
pulsory training, he was the founding
father. He created the legislation which
established the High Court to which
Barton retired towards the end of 1903,
leaving him the Prime Ministership.
It was a ruinous legacy doomed to
crush him in the wreckage of a Govern-
ment doomed from the first by the fact
that it operated under a multiple party
system with, as he phrased it, “three
elevens always in the field”. It crashed
on the issue of the proposed ambit of
authority of the Federal Arbitration
Court on which his policy clashed with
that of the Labor Party: this even though
he himself was very close to Labor and
closer to its leader, Chris Watson, than
most of the latter’s own followers. Indeed,
only he outside Labor could have held
Ballaarat.
He had been in office only seven


MR. EXECUTIVE
Does rust and corrosion eat into your profits?
Even salt water can’t affect parts mothballed in ...
B ritish 0
It guarantees expensive metal parts
complete protection from rust and
corrosion, abrasion and rough handl-
ing!
Dip precious parts in Gloscoat and they're
sealed inside a thick, tough, flexible
plastic skin. Gloscoat protects against
rust and corrosion indefinitely. And it
peels off quickly and easily when parts
are required for use. Plastic can be
re-used which saves money. Protect
precious parts, keep them factory fresh
with Gloscoat.
Used extensively by the Australian Navy
and many other government depart-
ments.
ptical
British Optical Co. Pty. Ltd., Contessa
House, 4th Floor, 4-14 Foster Street, Sydney
or phone 61-3740
months and Watson survived less than
four, after which Deakin watched W. M.
Hughes being dragged screaming from
the tart shop of office and found himself
giving a faint-hearted treaty-built support
to keep in office the man he disliked
most in Federal politics George
Houston Reid.
That unstable arrangement ended in
the winter of next year. Once more
Deakin came to office. But this time he
remained there from July, 1905, to
November 13, 1908. His ministry was
far from stable. Its membership changed
like sunlight on water but the period was
one of the most fruitful in legislation of
importance in Commonwealth history. It
produced the tariff, old age pensions,
copyright laws, secret commissions and
trusts and monopolies legislation.
It also saw Deakin in London in 1907
working as he had never worked before,
stumping the country in favor of Imperial
preference, moulding with the British
Government the compromises and
arrangements which led to his shaping of
the Australian national defence scheme,
the details of which he outlined after his
return home in his last great speech on
December 13, 1907.
Then the Fisher Labor Ministry
followed in office for a few months
waving the policies it had stolen from
Deakin. Once more for a brief nine
months Deakin was in the ascendancy in a
fusion arrangement with Joseph Cook’s
men, his reign one of the most terrible
periods of disorder known in any Parlia-
ment in the British Commonwealth. The
highlight was the chaotic fourteen hour
sitting of July 22, 1909, when the House
went right out of control and the ailing
Speaker, Sir Frederick Holder, staggered
from the Chair muttering, “Dreadful!
Dreadful!” and died in the precincts.
Most of the historic Federalists of the
Convention days had left him now, and
Labor, with that old anti-Federalist W. M.
Hughes in full cry at the head of his
Sydney wharfies, was riding to power on
the crest of the great coal strike waves of
New South Wales.
The very lawlessness of Labor and its
chaotic internal dissension seemed to
spell defeat for that party at the elections
of April 1910. Deakin was never more
hopeful than when he led his forces into
the campaign. He expected (he wrote
later) “a sweeping victory and my return
at the head of the strongest party yet seen
in the Commonwealth.” But his star was
set, his dream over.
1 reported him once or twice in that
campaign. His oratory seemed contrived
and outmoded, though his words still
gushed out like blood from a wounded
artery. He failed to grip his audiences.
He was assailed everywhere with rowdy-
ism and cries of “Judas!”, “Traitor!” His
Fusion party suffered what he described
as “the greatest public cataclysm in which
it has been my lot to share. We were
defeated in every constituency in which
I spoke.”
All, as it happened, but one—his own.
This he had never won by less than
two to one—the last time in 1906 against
a novice named James Henry Scullin who
himself in his first and only adventure
as Prime Mininster 25 years later during
the depression suffered very much in the
same way as Deakin suffered during his
last period of office.
Now Deakin won his last victory in
Ballarat against an unimpressive can-
didate by only 443 votes in 20,000.
He retired from office to the peace of
Port Lonsdale where he rejoiced in verse:
Oh, bird song, that l, at last, am free
This mellow autumn morning time
To muse and list to thee.
He was not yet quite free. He carried
on in the broken fusion till the end of
1912, progressively losing his grip until
all hope left him. He retired from Parlia-
ment the following January, but rallied to
give some service to the Commonwealth
as chief delegate to the World’s Fair at
San Francisco and on a commission or
two round the beginning of World War I.
By October 1914, when the first Austra-
lian Imperial Force for which he had
laid the groundwork seven years before,
was on its way to Egypt, he had lost his
memory “even from day to day”. He
composed his own political epitaph on
April 30, 1917:
My life as a politician has died out
absolutely and I really remember nothing
possessing any practical value. I have no
real past to which I can turn for help or
means ot escape. . . What I think I have
learned new soon dies away into a mere
tag and tangle of words, words, words . . .
Why babble more? All is lost . . . my past
shed . . . my future a hopeless mass of
wreckage. . . .
He lingered till October 7, 1919. By
that time he was a feeble shell of a man
enclosing what could scarcely be called
even the wreckage of a once peerless
mind and memory and spirit.


OUT AND ABOUT
DO ACTORS NEED
INTELLIGENCE?
"I am not a theatrical person at all“
By PATRICIA ROLFE
actor Mr Robert Speaight, at
present appearing in “A Man for
all Seasons” at Sydney’s Palace Theatre,
is a man for whom acting is not a
matter for all seasons. “I can go for
months without thinking about acting,”
he said. “I am not a theatrical person
at all, not imprisoned in the shop. Of
course, it a good part comes up I am
interested at once. I can live without
acting, but not without writing.”
This week, after Mrs Speaight who
has been here for three months returns
to England, Mr Speaight will set to
work on a new book in the fiat he is
living in at Vaucluse. “I am planning a
book on Shakespeare,” he said. “I
intend to begin with the first play I
remember seeing that goes back to
before I began school —give my personal
memories of it and discuss subsequent
productions I have seen, and so on with
each play. I think, at least, it will be
something new on Shakespeare.”
Although Mr Speaight prefers writing
to acting or, at least, can live without
one but not the other, he seems resigned
to the fact that, in spite of his books on
th. theatre and his novels, his reputation
is primarily as an actor. This is his
third time here. He is doing “A Man
for all Seasons” for the Elizabethan and
will go to Melbourne and Adelaide after
Sydney.
With a man who has written and
thought much about the craft at which
he works, the point arises: Do actors
need intelligence? Or, not to be so
brutal, what sort of intelligence does an
actor need?
“I suppose the thing needed is
theatrical intelligence,” Mr Speaight
said “The actor need not be an intel-
lectual and in most cases it is probably
better if he is not. Michael Redgrave
is the only completely intellectual actor
I know, that is, someone who looks at
everything in life, not only the stage
from the standpoint of the intellect. Of
course, you can’t call Olivier an intel-
lectual. Nor Gielgud, although there is
great imagination, great theatrical intel-
ligence there.
“The actor is really only an instru-
ment. The producer needs intellect and
perhaps the ideal is the brilliant producer
and the receptive actor, one man’s brain
in another’s man’s body.”
Mr Speaight said that although he had
himself studied the life of Thomas More,
the Man for all Seasons of Robert Bolt’s
play, he emphatically thought that his
More should be the man that the
dramatist had put on paper.
“When the play opens the shadows
are already beginning to gather, so I try
to stress More’s geniality and normal-
ity,” Mr Speaight said, “but this is Bolt’s
More, not mine.” Bolt’s More. Mr
Speaight believes, is a very good
portrait of the original. “I read
Chambers’ biography again before I
began work on the play. This is regarded
as the best portrait of More and Bolt
has followed it very closely.
“In any case, I don’t believe that
the historical dramatist has any right to
take liberties with a character. You
must respect his position in history, and
not fasten on to a character just to put
across your own point of view.”
Mr Speaight has not yet met Robert
Bolt but regards him as one of the
most promising of England’s younger
dramatists, whom he regards as a
promising bunch anyway.
“Of course, he does stand apart from
the ‘kitchen-sink’ school,” Mr Speaight
said. Mr Speaight himself stands rather
apart from them. “I do rather like my
art refined, or not entirely in the raw,
but I do think that there is a great
readiness among these new playwrights
to explore new themes. Another thing
is that Osborne and Pinter and others
hove been actors. They understand the
language that actors can speak. They
understand what causes theatrical spon-
taneous combustion. A literary dramatist
ROBERT SPEAIGHT
is concerned with what looks nice on
paper.”
Talking of literary dramatists inevit-
ably brought Mr Speaight to T. S. Eliot,
whose Thomas Becket, in “Murder in
the Cathedral” was Mr Speaight’s
previous historical Thomas.
“No two characters could be more
unlike,” Mr Speaight said, “but they
provide an interesting contrast in the
psychology of the martyr. More made
every attempt to escape his death, but
Becket rushed towards his. Of course,
Eliot’s play was pure poetry, but at no
time did I have any feeling of being in
a certain period of history. I was merely
in a certain situation.
“Still, 1 think ‘Murder in the
Cathedral will survive. And 1 think
‘The Cocktail Party’ is very interesting.
But Eliot was not a natural dramatist.
He just made himself one, and he really
got worse as he went along. I played
Mulhammer in ‘The Confidential Clerk’
and it was terrible. I was so bored. It
was so arid, so contrived.”
Mr Speaight said that nowadays he
sees Eliot occasionally, although the
poet is something of a recluse.
“I see him sometimes at the Garrick
Club,” Mr Speaight said, “and he still
goes into Faber and Faber a couple of
days a week. However, he worries a
good deal about his health and goes to
a warm climate for the winters.
“Of course, he is a totally different
man since his second marriage. It is a
remarkable thing, and very touching.
He is just like a boy. He likes to hold
his wife’s hand in public and show his
affection. It is remarkable, this man of —
what-is-he? —72 and this big, fresh
Yorkshire woman of 35. His discovery
of the everyday happiness so many of
us take for granted has made him a
different man.
“But I don’t think he is writing any
more. He wrote so much out of un-
happiness, I don’t know if he could
write out of happiness. Who can?”


THE SKY BURNING UP ABOVE THE MAN
T>eople in Peninsula were used to
A Peninsula College. Yet still, after
eighty years, they failed to understand
the young men who occupied it. Some
more rabid citizens thought the College
to be a vast, well provided colony of
aberrates and outcasts and scandals.
Most people however looked on the two
hundred inmates as noble enough and
completely misled young men.
Every December the two hundred
students went home, across the water to
the city, for Christmas. A week later
the College would be reoccupied. Some
proud cars with glistening formalised
muscles, and some merely functional
ones, would sweep up the hill and turn
into the College through the gap in its
long grey wall.
These would converge for what was
called a Retreat. The College, or Semi-
nary—the seedling place—was empty
now of its seedlings and the full-grown
men of God were back to remake their
souls, bodies and acquaintances.
On the third morning of last year’s
retreat, Dan Moran woke to the violence
of an electric bell. His stomach was sour.
“God!” he thought. “He gave me ulcers
before I was twenty seven. From eating
hopeless food. Bread and big foul meat-
balls. Made out of bloody offal. What’s
it matter?”
There was one feverish sheet on his
half-naked body. This he crumpled up
and flung on to the table. Beyond his
window the new day, at ten to six in the
morning, was like the noon of any other
day. In the neat little palms on the lawns
and in the old pines which repeated them-
selves all the way to the gate, the locusts
were frying with the heat. The sea was
thick and dimly grey, held down in place
by its own heat haze; and its narrow line
of foam along the beach was static and
pitiful.
“Another day, another shave,” he said
to himself. He washed. He shaved his
dark beard well enough for the time and
occasion. He covered the missing fly-
button and food stain on his stock with
a clean, light, cassock.
Then out he went into the gardens to
say his Breviary. There were others
strolling up and down the rises and falls
of lawn old men who leant for a
moment on remembered phrases out of
the old Davidic poems; some younger
men who crunched the prayer away less
tenderly on the gravel paths.
The tower bell rang at ten past six.
Many housewives down in Peninsula
nudged clammy husbands and rose to this
bell, while, ten minutes out on the water
with a sparse crowd of workers from the
Peninsula, a ferry captain heard this
reliable old freak of a bell and compared
it with his watch.
When the bell went, Dan yielded to
the intolerable weather and entered the
long ill-aired College chapel through one
Dan left his back bench and crossed
the marble sanctuary past the place
where the Cardinal knelt in lapidary
prayer at a scarlet prie-dieu. Behind the
sanctuary was a semi-circular passage
with six alcoves, each with its altar. Of
a morning, you needed lights on this
monastic tunnel so that the Masses could
be said, two priests at each altar one
serving, one sacrificing.
A t Dan’s altar everything was ready.
Maurie Lynch was lighting candles,
and the cruets —dry wine and water
(sweet wine made Dan bilious) —stood on
the right of the altar on linen fit to be
buried in.
“Mornin’ Maurie,” Dan whispered.
“Mornin’ Dan.”
“You say the first one?’ Dan offered
politely.
“No thanks. I’ll be saying mine a bit
later.” Maurie Lynch clumped the pages
A short story by Bernard Coyle
of the twin doorways at the back. Slung
above the doors were two imaginative
coats of arms. One of them was that of
a Papal Nuncio after whom the chapel
was named. “Fiat Pax in Virtute Tua,”
it told him dimly.
Dan found a seat some distance from
the Cardinal who knelt rigidly at the
front of the chapel, his red-piped soutane
lustrously black, his burnished pectoral
cross glinting across the barn-like spaces
of the holy place. This man was princely.
He never betrayed himself into scratching
the back of his head, blowing his nose
heartily, wringing his hands, or spilling
food on his clothes. A literary friend of
Dan’s, speaking once of this statesque
impeccability, promised to write a novel
beginning, “The bishop’s arse was itchy.”
The next five minutes brought in the
rest of the clerics, night-worn and sticky,
and after a while the Chancellor of the
Archdiocese, a trim, small, pink, strayed
public servant, whom the Holy Spirit
had claimed for his own purposes, began
the morning prayers. After a meditation,
the first Masses began at five past seven.
of the Missale Romanum about distract-
edly.
Dan Moran, eternal priest, came up to
the neat pile of sacrificial clothing. He
took Maurie’s amice, a small white neck
cloth, down from the altar and handed
it to him, whispering.
“Hang on to this. Hell of a day.”
It’s a great thing, Maurie told himself,
to be able to be serious about the
weather.
Dan kissed his amice with easy rever-
ence, tucked it round the neck, tied its
strings around his chest and whispered
the appointed words of love. He put on
the long white alb and whispered more
words. These Maurie couldn’t hear, but
he knew what they were and envied
them.
“Whiten me Lord, and cleanse my
heart so that purified by the blood of the
Lamb, I will enjoy never ending happi-
ness.”
“Lucky bastard,” Maurie thought.
Mass in the still air of the passage
with that weight of ornate clothing on
your shoulders, with sweat hanging round
your wrists and souring your hands, was


a time of duty and discomfort for Dan.
He was pleased to be able to purify the
chalice in the end with a liberal dose of
water and a little wine, and pack it up in
its filigreed coverings for the day.
Maurie finished dozing at the prie-dieu
in time to see Dan bless him and the
world. He looked disappointedly at his
two brown hands.
“Doomed limbs of a doomed man,”
he thought.
“Ready Maurie?”
“Oh, I’m not saying mine till later.
Could I see you after breakfast?”
Three quarters of an hour later the
breakfast bell rang out numbly. Dan
made for the dining table, helping out of
the chapel and old Monsignor who said,
“Damn hot. I think I’ve said my last
Mass.”
“Oh, you’ll be back tomorrow clutter-
ing up the altars.”
“I can say a better faster Mass than
you ever dreamt of, whelp.”
“Well, don’t tell us about it now or
we’ll both get defrocked for fouling up
the retreat.”
Above the gap between chapel and
main building there was today no sky but
only a grey oozy mist, and beneath it the
earth snored.
“I think I’ll be dead by nightfall,” the
old man whistled as Dan levered him up
the stairs into Peninsula’s splendid hall,
three hundred feet long and as wide as
a street, cobbled with black slate and
white marble and ending in the big cedar
doors of the dining hall.
“Have you made a legal will?” Dan
asked the old man.
“Legal will be hanged! I haven’t turned
the service of the Lord into a mockery.
I haven’t made it a case of self aggran-
disement. Now take you. What model
car have you got?”
“I’ve got a 1954 Austin.”
Well that’s not too bad. Of course,
you’re not a bad boy.” The old man
stopped to wheeze in front of an eight-
eenth century engraving of the Palazzo
Farnese.
You know what some of the young
fellers did last night? They put fruit
saline in my night-pot.”
He pointed at the engraving. “Saw that
place, he said. “Years ago. Pigeon s —t
all over it.” He “Yes, fruit
saline. When my bladder woke me in the
dead of night I thought I had galloping
effervescence.”
IYan deposited the Monsignor at a
special dietary table just inside the
door. He went to his own table. The
Cardinal intoned Grace, two hundred
chairs ground about on the floor, a moist
little Irish priest began to read aloud
from Chrysostom’s “On the Priesthood”,
and at the head of each table cornflakes
were served.
Handling bowls of cornflakes down
the table Dan found Peter Mazurek
beside him.
“How’s Maurie coming on?” Dan
asked him softly because Maurie Lynch
and Mazurek worked together.
“Same old Maurie.”
“Does he work hard?”
“Fiat out. For two months now the
boss and I haven’t seen him except at
meals and at night. Straight after Mass
and breakfast he goes and lays bricks all
day at the new school. He says his
Office at a gulp, one half before, one half
after dinner. He holds his meetings,
hears confession and so on. Then he
watches television. He makes no real
conversation with either of us all day.”
“Doesn’t this worry you?”
“The boss is a discreet old bird. He’s
tried to talk with Maurie. But what can
you really do? He’s a man who believes
that bullying can’t change things. He’s
a bit of a fatalist really. He can’t fire
Maurie.”
Peter stopped speaking, to listen to the
reading for a second, and to minister to
his cornflakes.
“In the end,” he said, “all one can do
is say, ‘same old Maurie.’ ”
Peter Mazurek shook his head over the
thought of his charming colleague, over
a man who had become a priest in search
of approval, and might become a demon
for the same silly reason. Peter Mazurek
knew w hat he knew.
After breakfast they all went to thank
God for the cornflakes. Today you might
as well have tried to pray in a bin of
molasses. Having tried, the men of God
began to scatter in search of a cool place.
By way of the florid central staircase,
awash w'ith jaundiced light from its own
windows, Dan went up to his room to
wash socks. At nine o’clock, an hour
before the morning conference, Maurie
knocked on his door.
“Had breakfast?” Dan asked.
“After a fashion.”
Maurie tottered full-length on to the
bed.
“I saw Peter this morning,” Dan told
him.
“What did Peter have to say?”
“The time and place didn’t allow for
any depth of discussion.”
Dan rinsed his hands and his socks.
“He seemed tired,” he said.
“Yes. Nothing wears people out like
being happy.”
“You should be exhausted then.”
“Ha!” Maurie said, as if he were a
magician about to produce the shivering
white rabbit of truth for the first time.
‘The last time I was happy was the
winter of about ten years ago.”
“What about ordination day and the
celebrations. You were radiant like a
bloody bride.”
I talked myself into being radiant. I
knew it was what was expected. You
didn’t have to talk yourself into it. Did
you? One of those schoolboys running
up and down the beach in the heat today
doesn’t have to keep saying to himself,
‘l’m healthy’. It’s the same with you
and Peter Mazurek.”
“You’re a typical asthmatic,” said Dan.
“Like Toad of Toad Hall. Up and
down.” He draped the wrung socks over
the sides of the wash-basin. “Anyhow, on
a day like this, everything’s out of pro-
portion.”
Maurie made a sour giggle. “God! Out
of proportion! You don’t know what the
words mean.”
TI/laurie was a solid young man with
wide, bent shoulders which now
inappropriately shivered. Seeing the big
humble body, Dan remembered a time,
when as schoolboys they had faced each
other in some momentous football match.
What he remembered particularly was
Maurie moving wide from the scrum,
forcing hi. way through the centres, and
galloping down on Dan who was full-
back. The big boy was incredibly fast
and Dan had found himself lacking in the
physical courage needed to tackle him.
Sweeping Dan’s paltry efforts away from
his mighty thighs, Maurie went on to
place the ball between the posts, while a
trivial full-back with a heart full of vine-
gar watched him from the ground and
prayed for death.
“I’ve got to make a confession to you,”
Maurie said. “I mean I’ve got something
to tell you. I’m not in search of absolu-
tion. I’m beyond that.”
“I know what you’re going to tell me.
You’re worn out. You find it hard to do
any work. Your earlier years have ex-
hausted you. So instead of doing the
work you think you should, but can’t,
you lay bricks all day. I say it’s a good
thing. It’s a damn good overdue thing.”
“That’s only a fraction of the trouble.”
“Now listen. You can’t afford to waste
your time being ashamed because you’re
exhausted.”
“Be quiet,” Maurie said. “This is my
bloody confession. I can better everything
you’ve said. I’ve done the ultimate.” He
nodded carelessly towards the wall in
front of him, to right and left. “All .hese
men here dread what I’ve done. I’ve
fallen under the spell of a woman. That
makes her sound like a malicious witch
and there’s nothing further from the
truth.”
“We fall under the spells of women in
thousands,” Dan said lightly, “and in
thousands we survive.”
“And we fall in hundreds, I’m one of
the hundreds. I’ve got the habit of
falling. My priesthood’s just a joke.
When I speak to people I can hear my-
self laughing madly down in my bowels
and I want to reach out and strike those
earnest faces. Those writhing anxious
faces that look at you!”
A north-westerly breeze, bred miles
away on hot roofs and oppressed earth


came across the inner harbor and brought
a little movement but less comfort
to the natives of Peninsula. It pushed
at the blinds of Dan’s room and blew a
few distant doors shut.
“This situation has been sent to make
you humble. That’s all it means.”
“All that rot about humbling me. Dan,
I’m not humbled. I’m trapped.”
“I’m not pretending you haven’t been
foolish or weak or whatever you want
to claim you’ve been. But you don’t
have to abandon the priesthood. You
know that.”
“What I know is that I expected some
guidance from you.”
Dan shrugged. “I’m sorry. You know
how people who are closest to you always
end by giving the silliest possible advice.
I’m like that.”
“But you know what it’s like. You
knew a girl once what was her name?”
“Don’t worry. I haven’t forgotten it.”
“You say you'd fallen in love with her.
How did you stay faithful? You couldn’t
have.”
“I don't know. I nearly didn’t. I came
close to suffocating. It was for all the
world like suffocating.”
“How in the hell did you control
yourself?”
“I ceased the struggle. How else?
People with insight compare love with
the sea. It’s easy to struggle against it.
It’s easy to reject it. And for us —well,
I think some priests believe that rejecting
human love is a primary mission of
theirs. One morning I said to myself
what does the song say? ‘This is love!’
Love is good. Love is God. Fight it and
you know who’s won before you start.
I simply took my love. I honored it.
I didn’t honor it with physical love.
I honored it with the Mass. I honored
it with the Mass.”
“God, that’s just a trick of the mind.
It's ‘Readers Digest’ stuff. I’m past tricks
of the mind.”
Maurie tried unavailingly to cry and
failed.
TJe said, “And you actually officiated
at her wedding. I used to think that
very heroic. Now I think you must be
a eunuch.”
“Perhaps,” Dan mumbled defensively.
“I wasn’t happy about that. He was a
professional sportsman, though sport was
only half his sport. The other half was
booze and wenching. He was immense-
ly successful in business. I knew he’d
get drunk at the wedding banquet. The
idea of him fumbling besottedly at her
horrified me. But I had to leave that
problem alone. All I could do was con-
sign her to her finance. After all, mar-
riage is a sacred contract you know.”
Dan hit his leg. He was vaguely disgusted.
“She was pure. Not angelically pure, but
pure in good, human, aware sort of a
way. Purity is the exotic butterfly. It very
often attracts the worst kind. He was
the worst kind. I’m sorry. Tell me
about yourself.”
“She was just a girl who came to me.
Her name is Suzanne Fraley. She’s un-
distinguished in the normal way, but
there’s some quality in her face that does
it. She’s as lost as I am. She said that
she wanted to be a Catholic. I asked
her why. ‘Because I’m so lonely,’ she
said. She was lonely. It was like a
sort of mist over her face. And although
she was beautiful in her way, she didn’t
have any belief in herself. - God, I could
have stood up to the most brazen girl.
You know the type with their succulent
hips sheathed in gorgeous dresses. I
wish I’d fallen for one of those succulent
bitches. I wish I’d given into one and
been emptied by her and dumped. But
this girl!”
Maurie looked at the roof as if a re-
velation were bursting on him from it.
“Lord,” he said, “what a hopeless little
name—Suzanne Fraley!”
“I made the suggestion and she refus-
ed. I asked again and again. Every time
she tried to be the cool voice of reason
to me. An impossible function for her
to fulfil. In the end, she couldn’t refuse
any longer.”
“Once more,” Dan sighed, “I’ll say
that the important thing to keep clear is
that you don’t have to leave the priest-
hood.”
“Don't have to leave the priesthood!
Look, I’ve got a son coming into the
world. Would you advise anyone else
to run out on their illegitimate children?”
“What sort of girl is she? I mean
would she cause any scandal if you tried
to work out a settlement with her?”
“Of course she wouldn’t—”
“Well, you’ve got to come to an agree-
ment with her. And another thing. You
should get the Cardinal’s help. You’re
not a career priest. You can’t lose by
bringing in the top echelon.”
Two boys on surfboats far out on the
hazed sea called to each other. Except
for a few insect noises, there was nothing
else to tell these two sweating priests that
the world beyond the window had not
died under the sun.
“Once and for all,” Maurie said quiet-
ly. “I’m not going to come to any agree-
ment. I love this woman. I love my
unborn son. Try to arrange that. I
wouldn’t arrange it if I could. You’re a
lucky bastard you know. Nothing can
touch you. But if I run out on my son,
I’m simply passing damnation on to him.
I’m going to leave and be his father, and
anyhow, I want to be with her.”
“We could set both of them up com-
fortably. I’ll give you anything you
need. She can live as a widow. She
can marry some reputable man and your
son will have a father.”
“Who didn’t beget him.”
To the few scant sounds of the hot
universe the exhausted whine of a baker’s
truck joined itself.
“No! No more tricks!” Maurie said
quietly. “I’ve become a false priest. I’ll
have to try and do something else now.”
“This is your only world. You’ve got
no friends besides us. People will love
to see you fall. You set yourself such a
high standard. You tried to do what
they can’t —love without sex. Even the
people you give the sacraments to, they’ll
gloat. The real mourning will be done
by us—and the house where you grew
up.”
“Don’t you think I’ve foreseen all that.
You’ve been no help. You’re no help
because you don’t know how powerless
people are. I’m powerless to say a good
Mass. I'm powerless to be faithful.”
I"|an went sadly to the basin and splash-
ed his face with water.
“Escape,” he suggested.
“I can’t get away from her.”
Maurie grabbed his friend’s bare arm
and shook it, and Dan saw Maurie’s taut
eyes and half expected them to explode
“I can’t get away from her!”
At night a storm rushed in from the
sea and strafed Peninsula. Behind it
came a strong wind which shook the
windows and cleaned the chapel of all
its thick air. By appointment, Maurie
went to see the Cardinal who was merci-
ful but unable to reach him.
“Can’t you see,” the Cardinal said at
one stage, “that you're asking too much
of this poor woman if you really love her.
You can’t try to give her security by
entering into a marriage contract which
she knows you don’t believe in. She
knows that already you’ve broken vows
you do believe in.”
He said also that God was love and
you can’t find love by denying God. He
said that priests took the obligation of
going to humans by way of God, and
that they couldn’t try the somewhat
easier way of etc, etc.
Dan met Maurie in a city arcade to-
wards the end of the next winter. He
recognised the shoulders bent with
asthma. Maurie pretended not to hear
Dan call out, but an old man nudged
Maurie and said, “Son, that priest back
there wants to see you.”
Then Maurie, born and consecrated to
house and unhouse the Lord, turned
round in all the polite nakedness of sports
clothes,' and faced Dan.
“Good morning Maurie. Did the
little bloke turn up?”
“Yes. He’s been pretty sick. Some
hereditary muscular business. He’ll be
all right though. We’re taking him to all
the best specialists.”
“I’m sorry he’s sick Maurie. You
know I am.”
“It’s all right,” Maurie said defiantly.
“We just live for ourselves. We’re very
happy.”


OVERSEAS
A EUROPEAN FOREIGN POLICY
Current plain speaking on both sides of the Atlantic far
from solving problems, sometimes aggravates them
From NEIL McINNES in Paris
Prance’s rebellion against the USA’s
nuclear monopoly is not the sort of
conflict that is going to be resolved by
negotiation, as President Kennedy ad-
mitted when he dismissed as useless a
proposed meeting with President de
Gaulle. Indeed, as often in power poli-
tics, discussion only serves to bring out
more starkly the extent of disagreement.
That is why the dispute is with us now:
for the first time, after the Eisenhower
interregnum and the ephemeral Cabinets
of the Fourth Republic, both countries
are led by men who. say openly what they
mean or rather what was always
meant by the foreign policies of their
confused but sincere predecessors.
Lucidity and plain speaking on both
sides, far from settling questions as the
conference-fetishists imagine, have
brought out into the open the blank
opposition long implicit between Ameri-
can and European foreign policies. One
is confronted, not with temporary dis-
agreement such as the western alliance
has often known before, but a discord
that will remain a permanent feature of
Atlantic relations.
I say “European” and “permanent”
because nothing could be further from
the truth than to think that the trouble
is peculiarly French nationalism or that
it will cease with the disappearance of
de Gaulle; those in Washington who are
speculating on de Gaulle’s downfall are
taking an anecdotal view of a large issue.
The account I shall give of the European
case (I am assuming that the American
case for a nuclear monopoly is familiar
and, I guess, accepted in Australia) is
indeed drawn from Gaullist sources
but only because they happen to be in
office just now. and their leader states
European aspirations more clearly than
others who share them. They present
their case as a European one and are
having some success in convincing others
(starting with Konrad Adenauer) that it
is so.
What use, one asks them, is an inde-
pendent nuclear force capable of killing
20 million Russians when the two super-
powers have the means to wipe each
other out reciprocally and simultan-
eously? No use at all. they confess in the
event of such a cataclysm; but then that
is not going to happen because the stale-
mate is complete and permanent. Then,
one presses, why have an independent
European force that is unnecessary if it
is meant to be additional to the US
force, and inadequate if it is meant
to be alternative to US force? More
crudely: an extra 20 million dead will
not impress the Russians if the Ameri-
cans can kill them all, but will not deter
the Russians if they can annihilate all
West Europe at one blow.
T? u nSWer ' s thal the Euro P ean forc «
would be netther additional nor alterna-
live in the East-West conflict, but will
make possible the defence of Eurone-m
interests that are neglected in that con
flict. It will not be alternative because
1 06 allerndtlve > because,
whether they relish it or not, the Ameri-
cans will reconcile themselves to an in-
dependent European force and will still
see Europe as their first line of de-
fence. That is, behind the modest Euro-
pean force will always stand US might,
to be instantly involved if war broke out
in Europe, and the Russians will be well
aware of this. The Americans’ warnings
that they will not necessarily come into
a war begun bv the European nuclear
force (e.g. in reply to a local and con-
ventional Russian attack) are not be-
lieved.
.
Objectively, the USA will have to join
a serious European war, and with their
° vvn atom ' c f° rce the Europeans will
have f he power in their hands to make
11 serious; at present that power rests
Wlth Moscow and Washington,
' The limited size, then, of the Euro-
pean atomic force is not important be-
cause it is not meant to replace ultimate
US defence. But it will be quite
big enough to support an independent
European policy, independent in every-
thing save dependence on the USA for
protection in the direct, and least prob-
able, emergency. What would be the
objectives of that independent European
P° lic y? This is where the Gaullists claim
to speak for the whole Continent and
not just for France
A, i™„ a,
w th u ey ex P ,ain ’ as Moscow and
ashington have a nuclear monopoly,
Europe will be divided between them in


two spheres of influence, on the prin-
ciple “you keep your half, we’ll keep
ours”. The present line of division be-
tween these two spheres is irrational and
untenable, notably in Berlin; so one side
will make concessions to the other, to
iron out friction points. That is what
Kennedy is offering Khrushchev now,
under the smokescreen of “exploratory
conversations”: concessions in central
Europe, from which the Europeans will
gain nothing in exchange from Russia,
but from which the USA might gain
something in another part of the world
that is of no interest to Europe.
De Gaulle and Adenauer are called
inflexible, or even warmongers, for re-
sisting these concessions. Yet, say the
Gaullists, in reality they are ready to
make equal and greater concessions to
Russia provided those concessions
are made by Europeans in return for
some European advantage in Europe,
e.g. a relaxation of Russian domination
over Poland and the Slav satellites. It
is not that Kennedy is soft and the
Paris-Bonn entente tough, but that Ken-
nedy, living in the nightmare of a uni-
versal conflagration, is willing to surren-
der for the of a so-called detente
things that the Europeans want to be
able to trade with Russia for tangible
benefits.
Before they can trade with Russia,
they must have their military indepen-
dence; otherwise Moscow will not take
them seriously and will prefer to do
business over their heads with their
American protectors who alone t-ive the
sanction of atomic power. A united six-
nation military power, with the reality of
French atomic forces and the threat of
a bigger and more deadly Franco-Ger-
man nuclear force, would not cower the
Russians but, after suitable displays of
its independence of Washington, would
be a serious candidate for a Russo-Com-
mon Market dialogue restricted to Euro-
pean affairs.
At that moment, say the Gaullists, we
shall have plenty to offer the Russians:
for example, something very near what
they want in Berlin, plus the assurance
of the perpetual division of G .'many
into an independent East Germany and
a West Germany securely integrated into
a union that it could never hope to
dominate. Russia thus being guaranteed
against a German military resurgence
and seeing West Europe independent of
(though ultimately protected by) the
USA, could be brought to consent to the
liberation of East Europe, opening it up
to a process of osmosis that would
gradually rebuild the unity of all Europe
from the Atlantic to the Urals. In truth,
there is no limit to the concessions West
Europe would make to Russia, provided
they were made by Europe and not by
the USA, and in exchange for precise
European advantages.
THE GHOST HUNTERS
Or, is there a witch-doctor in the house?
From DENNIS BLOODWORTH in Singapore
A Malayan newspaper has suggested
that the medicine man who fixed
the fine weather for the Royal Wedding
last month rather overdid things. The
captivating eldest daughter of the King
of Malaya (who is elected every five
years) was married to the Tengku Sulei-
man of Johore on a day of glorious sun-
shine last month. But it has hardly rained
since, and rain is wanted. Is there, some-
where behind the scenes, a bomoh to be
blamed?
The bomoh, or witch-doctor of
Malaya, is not a preposterously decked-
out charlatan, but often a plainly dressed
gentleman with a
matter-of-fact title
and address. “Mr
Kunji Mohamed, of
Perak River Valley
Estate”, for example,
recently worked
charms that success-
fully rid a haunted
tractor-driver of a
poltergeist.
The Malayan, al-
though as terrified of
the supernatural as
the next man, is so
plagued by ghosts,
mischievous spirits, and the unlovely
evocations of rival magicians that he
tends to have a workaday approach to the
whole business.
The elderly father-in-law of a butcher
who was recently incommoded by some
invisible imp that half wrecked his home,
remarked: “The whole affair is the work
of a bomoh practising his powers
keeping his claws sharp, you might say.
He’ll soon get tired of the game though.”
The bomoh —layer of ghosts, healer,
confidant of the afflicted is called in
when the church, the police or medical
profession have failed to bring relief,
and sometimes before. But his clientele
is not limited to the simple villagers in
their kampongs. Among the educated
MaCyans to whom Oxford, Cambridge
or the Middle Temple are alma mater,
and whose tastes may run to Jaguar cars,
or other sophisticated pursuits, far more
than would care to admit call in the
family bomoh to cure suffering or
sometimes to inflict it on others.
Take the case of Mr Chang San Lissu
—middle-aged, Western educated, a suc-
cessful lawyer of liberal political views.
There was a time when Mr Chang was
a difficult man to interview, for he could
not sit still. Every few minutes he would
start up from his chair, his face twisted
with pain, as if someone had stabbed
him between the shoulder-blades. Some-
thing was wrong with his back, he would
explain. Doctors had treated him for
arthritis, but without effect. Perhaps he
should be X-rayed.
Somebody deflected him from the
radiologist to a bomoh, however. The
bomoh asked him to strip to the waist
and sit on a stool. He then called in a
young woman, who sat behind the
patient’s back, went into a trance, and
consulted a famous doctor who had
been dead for seven centuries. In a
deep and resonant male voice she de-
clared that Mr Chang’s agony was the
work of a bomoh
employed by a pro-
fessional rival, whom
she named. This man
would come to see
him in two weeks’
time, but Mr Chang
should not upbraid
him or do him any
harm.
The girl then
leaned forward and
sucked from the skin
over his spinal col-
umn five thin,
twisted wire needles.
The pain disappeared at once. Two of
Mr Chang’s colleagues were standing
beside him when this took place.
Political antagonisms in particular
provide work for the medicine man.
Many party leaders who can split hairs
on constitutional procedure secretly
carry protective charms and, in some
cases, consult bomohs. On the first of
this month Mr S. P. Seenivasagam of the
Left-wing People’s Progressive Party was
prevented by his sisters from entering
his house in Ipoh before he had partici-
pated in a ceremony to ward off evil
spirits.
His front door was blocked by an
improvised altar on which wt offer-
ings of fruit and coconuts, and oil lamps
burned while his relatives chanted verses
from ancient Hindu canon. One cf them
explained that for some time past ‘'people
had been using black magic against the
Seenivasagam brothers”.
Underlying the Muslim convictions of
the Malaysian peoples there is a stub-
born belief in ghosts and goblins, in
local spirits and supernatural powers. In
Indonesia every individual stalk of paddy
must be cut gently at harvest time to
avoid angering the Goddess of Rice,
haunted trees must be placated with
offerings, the spirits in old swords and
gongs respected.


THE LONELY ONES
East Germans miss Western culture , contacts ...
From RAWLE KNOX in Berlin
two young men at my cafe table
in Leipzig were discussing where
they would go if only they could get out
of East Germany. One suggested Poland.
“If it has to be a Communist country,”
said the other, “yes; Poland. But I
really want to go to Great Britain. The
trade unions are so strong there.”
The feeling of being cut off from the
rest of Europe, and indeed the world,
is one of the pressures urging Germans
to escape from the “Democratic Re-
public”. It is not simply that Herr Walter
Ulbricht’s brutal wall of barbed wire and
mines cuts the East Germans off from
the West. To the East, the Poles and
Czechs behave very unlike democratic
brothers, and it is not easy for an East
German to get a visa for either country.
The suspicion which the Czechs, Poles
and other East Europeans still feel for
the Germans does not prevent them
coming as tourists to East Germany.
Every Sunday they come in busloads to
“cultural centres” such as Dresden or
Weimar. They swarm through the mag-
nificent Zwinger gallery in Dresden
in such numbers that it is almost impos-
sible to see the pictures. Professional
guides inform them, in terms of Euro-
pean social history, why the great mas-
ters painted so many Madonnas and
crucifixions. Then they are off again.
On one such milling Sunday recently
in the Zwinger, I saw two young Ger-
man girls sitting on a bench with their
arms round each other's shoulders, gaz-
ing enraptured at a small Rubens, while
the tourists swirled around them. The
pair seemed to say silently what many
Germans say out loud that they ap-
preciate culture, but you might as well
show these boors from the east a picture
postcard.
One hotel clerk with whom I spoke,
wryly called these outings “victory
tours”. He meant that the visitors from
the east were a reminder of who lost the
war. The tourists spend almost nothing,
behave with some arrogance especi-
ally if they are Russian and leave
the East German feeling more isolated
than ever.
The incomers do not even always be-
have like good Communists. Late one
night in the bar of the “Elefant Hotel”
in Leipzig, a young Czech couple got up
and danced the Twist. The East Germans
looked on in horror. “The Rock ’n’ Roll
was popular”, one German said, “but the
Twist is not for us.”
The success in East Germany of the
British film, SATURDAY NIGHT AND
SUNDAY MORNING, is another indi-
cation of this loneliness. This was men-
tioned to me by young people on several
occasions. The film pictured the prob-
lems of British youth, and the East
Germans were amazed that those prob-
lems were precisely similar to their own.
There is not even an interchange of
labor between East Germany and the
other Communist countries, though East
Germany is badly short of manpower
and there are indications that Poland,
at any rate, might be able to help make
up the deficit. At Eisenhuttenstadt (late
Stalinstadt) I did ree a team of Czechs
working on a Czech-designed gas con-
tainer for the iron foundry. They had
brought a complete group from designer
down to riveter. They worked by them-
selves and lived by themselves. They
were an exception.
Officials are just as aware of this
isolation as is the man in the street, and
they do not like it any better. They are
philosophical about the territorial losses
in the east. One foreign ministry official
said that after 17 years the German refu-
gees from the east were resigned to re-
settlement: it would solve nothing if they
were allowed to go back to their old
homes and so cause a new flood of
Polish refugees. He added an admission
rarely heard in Germany: “We must
realise that we are paying the price of
a lost war.”
“Why,” asked this same official, “should
it be more difficult to deal with our own
fellow-countrymen than with other
Europeans”?
VENEZUELA'S CASTROISTS
In 150 years, two honest elections
By J. HALCRO FERGUSON
HThe Venezuelan Government has been
bothered during the past four weeks
by various uprisings of small military
groups. One might put these down to
a Latin American proclivity for revolu-
tionary behaviour. In the case of
Venezuela the temptation is even greater,
since in a century-and-a-half of indepen-
dence the Republic has had only two
honest elections.
But despite this record, such an as-
sumption would be entirely false. Vene-
zuela has had an unhappy history. It
was the first country in Latin America
to declare its independence from Spain
in 1810, and Simon Bolivar, the principal
liberator of Latin America, was a Vene-
zuelan. From then on everything went
wrong.
Throughout the nineteenth century the
country remained in an almost constant
state of civil war between Liberals and
Conservatives, soldiers and civilians,
centralists and federalists. For most of
the first half of the twentieth century it
was under the control of the dictator
Juan Vincente Gomez. When he died in
1935 after having ruled since 1908, no-
body knew how to run the country.
The army, off and on, did its best, but
in the circumstances of the twentieth
century it was not good enough. In 1945
came the country s first civilian revolu-
tion, and Accion Democratica came to
power. In the meantime, Venezuela had
become one of the world’s principal oil
producers, and the old “oligarchy” re-
sented losing control of the nation’s
economy.
In 1948 the new democratic regime
was overthrown by a military coup
d’etat which put into power one Colonel
Perez Jimenez, who ran the country for
10 years. His dictatorial rule irritated the
intelligentsia, the Church, the workers,
and, finally, the Army itself, and Perez
Jimenez was thrown out in 1958.
The elections held at the end of that
year once more returned Accion Demo-
cratica to power, under the Presidency
of Romulo Betancourt. He is still Presi-
dent, and his party is the largest in Par-
liament, but his authority is challenged
from both extreme Right and extreme
Left.
The former is now not so powerful,
and represents a small fraction of the
country’s seven million people. The ex-
treme Left is a more serious threat, and
the one responsible for the recent
troubles. Betancourt was once a friend
of Fidel Castro of Cuba, but broke with
him when Castro moved into the Com-
munist camp. The young Marines who
are intermittently trying to overthrow
the elected Government are doing so
because they believe in Castro and think
that Betancourt has betrayed the leftist
revolution.


Around Melbourne
WILD LIFE IN SUBURBIA
TAo you want to know what a Mel-
burnian is really like? Barry
Humphries was the first to give us
some real insight into this. He created
the character Mrs Norm Everage of
Gallipoli St, Moonee Ponds, and in
the monologue “Wild life in subur-
bia” we gained a beautiful picture of
the Everages.
They lived in a triple-fronted brick
house, they had sand-blasted
windows, China ducks on the walls,
Genoa velvet furniture and as for the
carpet, oh, it was a gorgeous bur-
gundy wall-to-wall. They liked the
local RSL, they took the vehicle to
the footy of a Satterdy arvo and they
loved to go to Beryl’s for cards. A
real treat for tea was sponge fingers.
Their son married a lovely Ivanhoe
lass and they lived in an L-shaped
home.
What Barry Humphries was trying
to say has now been put down in
scientific form by the Brotherhood of
St Laurence. The Brotherhood always
has been interested in social questions
and it is probably the most enterpris-
ing and thoroughly worthwhile of all
Victorian Anglican organisations. The
Brotherhood, four years ago, with the
help of the Myer Foundation, decided
to dissect a typical Melbourne housing
estate.
They aimed to find out how these
people lived, what they wanted out
of life, and how they would be helped
by social services. So a team of
trained interviewers went into this
housing estate of 4000 and talked to
200 carefully selected people. The
result came out last week in a book
titled “Leisure—a social enquiry into
leisure activities and needs in an
Australian housing estate” by David
Scott and Robert Uren. (Cheshire,
10s. 6d.)
The incomes of 71 per cent of
those interviewed were between £l6
and £25 a week, so if, maybe, the
Brotherhood had tried another suburb
the results might have been entirely
different, but even so the survey is
downright fascinating. It proves that
the trade union idea of the perfect
30-40 hours week is nothing but a
dream. Most of the men worked
overtime to get more money, their
leisure was cut away by long hours of
travelling and nearly all were incur-
able home-bodies who spent most of
their week-ends doing home chores,
making improvements, keeping up
with the Norm-Everage-Jones next
door.
However, said the survey, maybe
the time spent at home in gardening,
painting, repairing or improving the
house provided some of the satisfac-
tions denied in much industrial em-
ployment. But the average fellow got
out even less than Mrs Everage’s
Norm. Only two per cent, went out
visiting or were visited on week
nights. Of those who had TV 85 per
cent watched the television all or part
of the evening, 3 per cent, did house-
hold jobs and 4 per cent, talked,
listened to the radio, and read the
newspapers.
Now what about the great Aus-
tralian week-end? Well, 73 per cent,
put in Saturday morning shopping or
doing odd jobs and 41 per cent kept
right on with it in the afternoon.
Then 19 per cent, watched or played
sport and 7 per cent, hopped down to
the pub. Maybe Sunday is really the
live-it-up Australian day. Here 44
per cent, exchanged visits on Sunday
afternoon, or they got out for a drive,
but 75 per cent stayed home Sunday
nights mostly getting round that TV
set.
As for reading the Brotherhood was
a little surprised. Admittedly this was
early in the piece, 1958, and only 67
per cent owned TV. Things could be
different now. But then 9 p.c. said
they did not read at all, 41 per cent,
read only newspapers and magazines,
23 per cent read a book occasionally,
25 per cent, read a book frequently
and there were other replies from 3
per cent. Very few ever visited the
free library and it could be assumed
that most of the books read were
paper-backs. Whichever way you look
at it, the survey showed that in a
so-called educated community 40-50
per cent, never looked at a book
at all.
And most of them weren’t nearly
as friendly as our Mrs Norm. All of
them were asked: “Do you have
much to do with your neighbors?”
and most of them replied “Not
much”. In fact, for some, there
seemed to be a nice feeling of superi-
ority in keeping to oneself.
There was a nice dreamtime
question. What would you do if you
had £5OOO to spend? The mythical
Australian no doubt would blue it all
on the horses or buy a Cadillac. Here
70 per cent, said they would spend it
on the home, only 6 per cent, said
they would put it in the Bank, only
6 per cent thought of it for a trip
and, perhaps most astonishing of all,
only 2 per cent, said they would spend
it on clothing or educating their
children.
Another dream, of course, dating
right back to Mrs Pankhurst, is the
freeing of the female, letting her
loose from the shackling monotony
of the house to meet people, join
clubs, take up hobbies and interests.
So the ladies were asked what would
they do it they had more household
help? Most of them wanted to stay
right where they were. Only 17 per
cent, wanted to go out more.
More than anything this survey
proved that the people were real
stay-at-homes. There was no real
community drive, there were few
outside activities and their interest in
social clubs was only slight. Only
one-third showed any interest in the
Church and only 15 per cent had been
to Church the previous Sunday. But as
the book pointed out there was not
a great deal for them locally in the
way of real social life and if the
facilities were there maybe it would
be different. (14 per cent named faci-
lities they would like in the district.)
There are a few points that could
affect the story. The survey was made
in the winter, not the summer. But
even so the facts are extremely well
presented and for anyone who has
interest in social work and suburbia
it is worth every penny of that half
guinea. And while Mr Downer is
chasing girls in Europe, trying to
explain exactly what life is like in
Australia it would be an excellent
idea if he had a copy of this little
book in his pocket.
Would Mr Downer have to tell
them that these Australians in this
housing estate were unhappy? Cer-
tainly not. Judging from the answers
to the questions all the people living
the wild life in suburbia were per-
fectly satisfied just as they were.
BATMAN


FORUM
THE ITALIAN SOUTH
Can it be as bad as it is painted?
By LUIGI BARZINI
]s italy one, as she appears to be to
A the casual visitor and as all the books
confirm? Or can she be more exactly
described as an arbitrary union of two
separate countries, “le clue Italie”, as the
Italians say, inhabited by two separate
people, as superficially alike but funda-
mentally dissimilar and antagonistic as,
for instance, the Arabs and the Jews?
In other countries, however, whose
political union was achieved only recently
against heavy odds by fortunate minori-
ties and is still fragile, such division be-
tween North and South tends to be much
more important than mere cracks which
are easily papered over. They are seldom
matter for jokes. They are the outward
signs of a definite cleavage, the cause
of deep-seated tensions which make
political life insecure, unbalanced, and
dangerous. All decisions must be made
with the need to keep the country to-
gether clearly in mind. Few real problems
are soberly assessed and solved. Imagin-
ary problems always have precedence,
phoney issues on which it is easier to gain
the superficial consent of the majority.
In such breakable countries politicians
usually prefer vast aggressive plans,
nationalistic myths, colonial wars, wars
against weaker and unprepared neigh-
bors, and other such stirring adventures,
which allow the people to forget their
differences and find an emotional but un-
stable appearance of unity, rather than
dull, long-term, but useful programmes.
This necessity also helps to explain the
history of Italy in the last hundred years.
A peaceful, unmilitary, reasonable, and
realistic people dedicated itself to colonial
adventures (from the occupation of
Massawa in 1885 to the conquest of Libya
in 1911 and Ethiopia in 1935), to back-
breaking military expenditure (which in-
cluded the maintenance of an army and
a navy among the largest in Europe),
and to strenuous and sometimes ludicrous
attempts to maintain at all cost the rank
of a Great Power. All this necessarily
retarded or prevented the development
of political institutions, the improvement
of the administrative machinery, the
training of an elite, the education of the
masses, the promotion of industry and
commerce, and the modernisation of
more backward areas.
There were other factors that con-
tributed to the making of Italy what she
was and what she is today. Still, the dif-
ference between her two halves and the
fragility of her national unity were among
the more important. Italy’s future welfare
and existence as a free and western nation
still largely depend on how well the
problem of the co-existence of North and
South, the “Problema del Mezzogiorno”,
is understood, studied, and solved. Inevit-
ably one is led to speculate how large
an influence Italy’s insecurity may again
have on the peace of Europe and the
rest of the world.
There is no doubt that all Italians, ob-
served from a distance, have a family
resemblance. They all come from more
or less the same stock, have predomin-
antly dark hair, dark eyes, and vivacious
expressions. In general they have all ex-
perienced similar historical vicissitudes,
learned approximately the same lessons
through the past centuries, conceived a
similar philosophy of life, shared more or
less the same hopes and aspirations, and
have developed the same talents in order
to survive. Italians consider that living is
the principal aim of life. They pursue
happiness “all’italiana”, that is they try
to further their own private welfare (or,
as Guicciardini put it, “il particulare”)
rather than that of society.
They must, therefore, defend them-
selves and their families against the envy,
hatred, ill-will, greed, and treachery of
the outside world, the State, society, law,
and the mighty. They must be prepared
to survive natural calamities, historical
convulsions, and political upheavals. Un-
like the inhabitants of older nations, poli-
tically better organised and more ad-
vanced, Italians have learned to rely less
on collective institutions and organisa-
tions and more on their own private
virtues and public vices, their personal
power, adaptability, charm, intelligence,
and shrewdness. In Italy, families often
prosper while society decays. The Italian
Republic has been defined as a “loose
federation of families”.
When studied a little more closely,
however, one is struck by one funda-
mental difference between north and
south. All others seem secondary.
What is this difference?
We have seen that both northerners
and southerners want, above all, to
protect themselves and their families
from risks. They want to survive and see
to it that their sons, grandsons, and their
progenies survive, defying society, history,
cataclysms, and adverse fortune for as
long as possible. Here the resemblance
stops.
The northerner thinks that there is
only one sure way to achieve these aims:
the acquisition of wealth, “la ricchezza”.
Only wealth can assure the family’s
defence. The southerner, on the other
hand, thinks that only power, prestige,
and authority will do the job.
The northerner of whatever class is
therefore perpetually trying to acquire
wealth in its various forms. He wants
a job, a good job, a better job. He wants
land, capital, credits, shares, houses,
technical and scientific knowledge which
can be converted into high salaries, ex-
ecutive posts in good businesses, expen-
sive and rare university degrees, which
assure him better paid employment, and
will undergo any sacrifice in order to
gain these advantages for himself or his


sons. He wants a rich wife, rich daughtei
and sons-in-law, and rich friends. He li-
very close to being a pure homo econo
micus.
The southerner, on the other hand,
wants to be obeyed, admired, respected,
feared, and envied. For him the impor-
tant aims in life are rank, influence,
power in any one of its many forms, not
wealth but the appearance of wealth.
In whatever rank of society he is born,
he will pursue those aims. The little
peasant as well as the landed proprietor
will cultivate the gratitude of powerful
friends and relatives, the fear of his
enemies, and the respect of everybody.
Profit and the Northerner
A northerner inherits a farm. He
dreams of developing it, improving cul-
tivation techniques, applying modern
scientific methods of irrigation and
drainage, in order to increase its output
and his profits. He wants to buy more
and more land with his savings. He
wants to set aside a lot of money, to
invest in profitable concerns. He wants
to leave as much as possible to his heirs.
He sends his son to an agricultural
school.
A southerner inherits a similar farm.
He dreams of renting it for whatever it
may bring him and of then forgetting it.
With the money he wants to go to Naples
or to Rome, and support himself while
struggling to acquire a “posizione”. He
may study for a difficult university degree
of the kind that produces no income but
great prestige, try to win a Government
post, gamble and live recklessly in high
society, acquiring great fame; he may
become a celebrated criminal lawyer.
In Naples and in Milan (to quote an-
other example) there are wholesale fruit
and vegetables merchants. They are clas-
sified as “grossisti di frutta e verdura”
in the telephone book. They pay dues to
a local association and to a national
organisation of wholesale dealers in fruit
and vegetables. They may meet at
national congresses to debate the com-
mon interest of their trade. It would be
misleading to suppose, however, that the
two have similar occupations and pursue
similar aims.
The Neapolitan usually tours the
countryside with his henchmen, bullying
and protecting peasants in his sector, who
must sell their products only to him at
the prices he fixes. He defends his terri-
tory and his vassal farmers from the
encroachment of competitors. He carries
a gun. He shoots straight. As everybody
knows he can enforce his will by killing
his opponents, and sometimes does, he
never, or almost never, has the need to
shoot. If the farmers were to refuse to
sell at his price he would leave their
produce to rot in the fields. They never
refuse.
A superficial observer, of course,
would not know what is going on, would
notice none of the secret threats and
fears. Farmer, “grossista,” competitors, all
smile, joke, exchange pleasantries, drink
vino, shake hands. They seem to be the
best of friends. Only rarely the police
discover that something must have gone
wrong, when they find a corpse in a
country lane. Nobody usually gets killed,
if he is careful. The culprits are seldom
identified.
The Milanese “ grossista” is an entirely
different kind of man. He resembles his
Swiss, Austrian, French, or Dutch col-
leagues more than his Neapolitan or Sici-
lian competitors. He carries no gun, is
followed by no henchmen, rarely sees the
farmers he buys from, almost never tours
the countryside. He has a modern office,
telephones, secretaries, graphs on the
wall. His business is done by telephone,
with brokers, buyers, or correspondents
in Germany, France, Switzerland. His
Many Australian xenophobes sub-
scribe to a common myth about
Italians; that somehow the Italians
who come from the South are poor,
corrupt and inferior to those who
come from the North who are, in the
terms of the same myth, blue-eyed,
blond, and hard-working. In this
FORUM the well - known Italian
journalist, Luigi Barzini, contrasts the
two Italies and clears up a few mis-
conceptions about the South in par-
ticular.
aim is to ship more and more refrigerated
railway cars abroad, filled with more and
more fresh produce at the highest pos-
sible prices. He dreams of improving
packaging, advertising, shipping tech-
nique, his knowledge of foreign tastes,
and so forth.
He naturally makes a lot of money,
in good years one hundred or one thous-
and times more than his Neapolitan col-
league does. Still, the Neapolitan col-
league is not unhappy about it. Money is
not his principal aim. He wants other
things in life. He wants to be well-known
(his sinister nickname must silence
people in the fruit and vegetable market
and seal their mouths when questioned
by the police). He wants to be feared
(policemen often prefer not to see him
go by). He wants to be powerful (politi-
cians sometimes purchase his help at
election-time with favors). He wants to
be loved (he will redress wrongs and
protect weaker people asking for his aid).
Hie wants people to bend to his will,
Tetty girls as well as farmers.
All these, of course, are grossly exag-
gerated simplifications, examples chosen
is didactic illustrations of the point.
Nothing is that simple in real life. Ex-
ceptions are numerous.
Still, the difference, while not always
identifiable in individuals, is always dis-
cernible in the two societies. It permeates
every detail. It strengthens the contras-
ting characteristics of the two sections.
It widens the gap.
It is pointless to pass judgment on
either of these two societies, to say which
is better, more civilised or advanced,
which is more likely in the long run to
provide the “greatest good for the greatest
number”. Is the northerner really happier
than the southerner? He has considerable
material advantages. Do they compensate
for the spiritual poverty, the levelling,
the crude hedonism, the infantile culture,
and the harsh discipline which are in-
separable from an advanced industrialised
society? Is the southerner happier, then?
He lives a poorer but freer life. He is
not bound by rigid schedules. He defends
himself, like the Red Indians in the
prairies, and enjoys using all his faculties
in the daily struggle to overwhelm his
competitors. He has time to pursue idle
and wasteful passions. His life is nearer
nature and natural instincts.
The Dedicated South
Consider what great benefits south-
erners contributed to past Italian achieve-
ments. A people wholly dedicated to the
rational and scientific pursuit of wealth
inevitably becomes dull. Civilisation and
the graces of life flourish best where there
are disinterested, dedicated, and intelli-
gent people, men who accept a lower
standard of living for the sake of more
satisfying occupations and who prefer
dignity, fame, authority, or ease of con-
science to money or security: scholars,
poets, artists, novelists, saints, philo-
sophers, jurists, eccentrics, spendthrift
aristocrats, et al. The Mezzogiorno has
produced a great majority of such
characters in Italian life. Italy’s debt to
them is great.
The State has been cheaply run for
decades, up to the last war, by able and
honest southern bureaucrats. The univer-
sities were and are staffed mainly by
southern professors. Some of the best
novels in contemporary Italy were written
by southerners, the Sicilians Verga, Ca-
puana, De Roberto, Brancati, Vittorini,
and now Giuseppe Tomasi di Lampedusa.
Her greatest playwright, Pirandello, was
born in Agrigento. Her greatest philo-
sopher, Croce, and one of her greatest


poets, d’Annunzio, were born in the
Abruzzi. Her colonies were administered
with great personal sacrifice by compe-
tent officials from the South. Most of the
staff officers in the army and navy were
from the southern half. The Sicilians
formed a nucleus of the Foreign Service
where they excelled because their native
qualities were the same as those which
are indispensable in the conduct of foreign
negotiations. Most heroes in her wars
were from the South. The principal pub-
lishing houses entirely dedicated to un-
profitable culture were in Bari (Laterza),
Naples (Ricciardi), and Messina (Prin-
cipato). They kept the Italian soul alive
in the dark times of the Fascist dictator-
ship, as the Benedictines did in the
remote Middle Ages.
The fact that many southern traits and
habits may be classified as typical of an
“agrarian”, “feudal”, or “pre-capitalistic”
society is only a partial but a misleading
explanation. It again presupposes that
southerners would be northerners if only
they were given the chance. There is no
doubt that in the Mezzogiorno one still
encounters beliefs and habits belonging
to earlier ages.
The point is. not that such habits
survived, but why they survived at all.
The point is simply that southerners
learned from all foreigners, including
the Spaniards, only that which suited
them, and always clung to their own way
of life through thick and thin, in spite
of everything, sometimes daring defeat,
poverty, degradation, and desperation in
order not to betray their own nature and
habits.
The southerners’ attachment to their
own ways is often concealed. It is not
now fashionable to praise what are offici-
ally considered to be reactionary pre-
judices and vices. Confronted with the
modern world and its complicated re-
quirements, southerners react with insin-
cere praise, sincere envy, and polite cyni-
cism; they shrug their shoulders philoso-
phically and make sarcastic little jokes
about the stupidity of northerners, the
“Piemontesi fessi”.
Some of these disillusioned southerners
have turned for salvation to the Commu-
nist party, to a system which appears
even more hostile to their way of life
than the North is. Efficient, disciplined,
egalitarian, “scientific”, the Communist
creed makes northern Italy and indus-
trialised Europe seem almost lackadais-
ical and benign by comparison. What
southerners like in the Communist party
is its hatred for the bourgeois and
liberal revolution, its hope for a new
hierarchical world, almost feudal in its
stratified construction, where free com-
petition is abolished, and any man with
powerful friends can defend his position
in life.
Southerners have little liking for and
understanding of the modern world, in
which they do not feel at ease, are often
beaten and humiliated by duller competi-
tors, who ignore the fine points of the art
of living but stick diligently to their
chores. Southerners, as we have seen,
cannot easily or quickly change them-
selves. They can only sometimes make
believe they do. Their malaise has no
apparent cure. They cannot become effi-
cient northerners, bent merely on making
money. Yet they cannot endure their
condition of “inferior”, or “backward”
people.
This is the psychological heart of the
‘‘Problema del Mezzogiorno”.
Undoubtedly many things have
changed in the South, many more per-
haps than the reader of these pages has
been led to believe. It is, after all, no
longer Ferdinand ll’s “island”. It is part
of a contemporary modern nation, part
of Europe, part of the contemporary
world. It was not sheltered from history.
It could not be protected from the influx
of world-wide trends. The large amounts
of money spent in the last few years
could not help having an influence.
Then there were the wars, the many
wars fought by Italians since 1860, in
which southerners did their duty in
strange and distant lands, the deserts of
North Africa, the plateau of Ethiopia,
the snow-covered Alps, Greece and
Russia. All people bring back from wars
a secret resolution to live different and
better lives from those they have known.
Emigration to North and South America
and to the rest of Europe provoked a
return flow of money, new ideas, new
habits, and restlessness. For a century-
and-a-half able men from the middle
ciass emigrated to Central and Northern
Italy, where they and their descendants
now occupy leading positions. Southern
soldiers brought back northern wives.
The movies and television forced the
inhabitants of obscure villages to gaze
upon an idealised, bourgeois, and well-fed
image of the outside world. Unemployed
workers go north by the tens of thous-
ands, where they find jobs. Those who
are left behind have steadier employment
and higher wages.
All this and numerous other factors
inevitably changed the appearance, the
habits, the life, the ideals of many south-
erners.
Factories are visible everywhere, new
factories, built in the last few years.
Some, of course, are already shut. They
were built with no clear ideas, not enough
money, no experience, to satisfy the
usual emotional cravings. Others func-
tion. They sometimes produce something
which has been manufactured for a long
time better and cheaper in the North.
A few plants, here and there, flourish.
Some of them were built by northern
firms, taking full advantage of the legisla-
tion facilitating economic enterprises in
the South.
The faces of people have changed in
the cities and the most prosperous towns.
The women are freer and better dressed.
The crowds in the streets look better fed.
The younger people especially are deter-
mined not to eke out a living as their
ancestors have always done, no longer
to resign themselves to the will of God,
the favor of the mighty, the caprice of
fortune, and the everlasting “miseria”.
ft is a better ’’miseria”, often comforted
by new, modern conveniences, a road,
a public telephone, sometimes an aque-
duct, sewers, a doctor twice a week,
a “ miseria” tempered perhaps by the dis-
tribution of American surplus flour,
condensed milk, and beans to the des-
titute, but “ miseria” nevertheless. Even if,
however, the process of modernisation
should continue, and everything every-
where showed the mark of a definite
improvement, the “Problema” would still
not be solved. The malaise and the rest-
lessness, the feeling of being the victims
of historical injustice and the prey of
other people’s greed, the desire to revolt
and break away from united Italy would
continue to make political life insecure
and Italian unity as fragile as it has
always been.
As long as the South does not really
want prosperity, but moral equality with
the North, it spends its efforts and
money, as it has always done, not on
strictly economic aims but on the display
of newly acquired, or not yet acquired
power and prestige.
Can southerners learn to follow strictly
economic considerations in the pursuit
of their psychological aims? Can they
abandon their old ways? Can they be-
come somebody else? They can, with
time. Up to now they still cling as much
as possible to their traditions, while bit-
terly protesting whenever they feel the
modern world leaves them behind. They
want at the same time to live in the
Arcadian past of the Bourbon kings and
in the present day of cheap and con-
venient goods. They want to produce as
their grandfathers did in the South and
consume as their contemporaries do in
the North.


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
AUSTRALIA AND HONG KONG
REFUGEES
Sir,
We are told that despite the Willie
Wong affair, Australia is unlikely to help
relieve the pressure of refugees on Hong
Kong by means other than the supply of
food. As one newspaper puts it, “To do
so would involve a complete reversal of
our migration policy, which the Federal
Parliament would be unlikely to approve.”
Early in 1942, when the Japanese army
was speedily taking over South East Asia
on what seemed might be a long-term
basis, the Curtin Government informed
the Allied Supreme Command that Aus-
tralia was willing to admit up to 3,000
non-European civilian refugees. The
Dutch Government which may have been
colonialist, but was never racialist, in any
crude sense, is rumored to have found it
necessary to enlist some aged people and
children in their Armed-Forces-in-exile.
No one will disagree that the passing
of our uncomplicated Past is to be regret-
ted. As a former upholder of the White
Australia Policy, I am not now com-
pletely dogmatic that if there should be a
spread of communist jurisdiction South-
Eastwards through Asia, perhaps almost
to the verges of Australia’s shores, that
we should discourage Asians from fleeing,
lest the natural path of their fleeing might
happen to point in our direction.
JOHN QUINLEM
Canberra.
SOEKARNO—
FADING FATHER IMAGE
Sir,
I have read your article on President
Soekarno in The Bulletin of June 9.
Though it seems to me that the author
has been in Indonesia it is a great pity
indeed that he did not come up frankly
in what he wrote. Instead, his use of a
nickname—by the way, an Indonesian
one —detracted from the importance of
the article, and what is much more,
harmed the honesty of its purpose.
What, then, according to our mind,
was that purpose? If it was the author’s
intention to present to readers some in-
formation about Indonesia and its Presi-
dent, he should have known that his
very emotional and prejudiced explana-
tions did not at all reflect the image
which Indonesians in general have of
their country and their leaders.
Furthermore, the writer presumed to
attempt an evaluation of events in Indo-
nesia. I would say that it is only fair
that, in the first instance, the Indonesians
themselves should be left to judge and
evaluate these matters in their own way,
and if events in Indonesia develop in a
direction contrary to what the writer in
question thinks is “efficient and legal”,
we suggest that he should not be so pre-
tentious as to believe that therefore he is
right and we are wrong.
So the only conclusion left to us is that
the sole purpose of the article was to
discredit, in a very emotional way, short
of being “personal”, the President, Dr
Soekarno. In that case, the writer seems
to have forgotten that President Soekarno
is the head of a country which, at the
present moment, Australian leaders are
visiting, or plan to visit, on goodwill
tours.
I fully respect the freedom of the
Press; but if, according to the author of
the article, friendship between our two
countries is not a thing to be striven
for, then I may suppose that this country
provides him with ample opportunities to
express his conviction in a more honest
and clean manner than in this way.
MARTONO KADRI
(First Secretary, Information.)
Embassy of Indonesia, Canberra.
LED BY THE NOSE
Sir,
Some points in relation to your article
Mugga (Bulletin, Tune 2) on the water-
front TV Show.
Four Corners is an ABC documentary
which appears regularly. It is an Aus-
tralian production more than holding its
own as public entertainment, with im-
ported material.
In the usual way, Mr Michael Charlton
and his crew came to the Sydney water-
front to produce such a sequence. The
union gave Mr Charlton and his crew
an “open cheque”. They spent two full
days on the waterlront. I was allocated
by the union to provide them with any
assistance or service they required.
I was impressed with their energy in
going about their job. They filmed almost
the whole port, and spoke to anyone
they fancied. In this way they inter-
viewed scores of men. The final selection
of the 20 minutes film rom this mass
of material was therefore Mr Charlton’s
and the ABC.
It appears to me that Mr Charlton and
his staff did their usual competent job
and pleased his growing public. My only
complaint is that he watered down our
case far too much, but then we had no
control over him and had to accept his
production.
How could he have reported other
than was revealed in the program, and
had he done otherwise, would have pre-
sented a false picture of the actual water-
front position, and I would suggest to
Mugga that he question Mr Charlton
himself on the matter.
I note that Mugga devotes quite some
time to red baiting.
His selection of Bill Burns is not
called for. Burns is a very capable and
decent worker. He did not as you did,
Mr Mugga, hide his identity, and Mr
Charlton first approached Burns, as he
did all the other men he interviewed.
Mugga has made so many mistakes
about the waterfront conditions, that
wharfies who have read his article are
laughing at it.
It is not my intention to correct all his
errors, however. I would personally be
happy to do so, and point out the position
to him in a personal talk with him.
Mugga’s chief complaint is that the
other side was not consulted.
Surely he must have noticed in the
film the presence of Mr Craig, Chief
Shipowners’ spokesman, who put forward
their point of view.
In conclusion I suggest that Mugga
do as he concludes his article —have a
look at both sides of the question before
putting his pen to paper and indulging
in such incorrect criticism.
MAX HEIDKE
(Vice-President, Sydney Branch of
the Waterside Workers’ Federation.)
Sydney.
[Mugga writes: I regret that Mr Heidke
feels unable to tell readers of my errors.
In fact his inability to make any point at
all simply confirms the claims made in
my article—for example, that the worst
cargoes lamp-black and wheat, which
Four Corners presented as typical—rep-
resent .6 and one per cent of manhours
worked on the Svdney waterfront, or that
the “bull-system” died about 30 years ago.
Four Corners’ programmes are usually
very good, but the one to which I re-
ferred was obviously based on inadequate
investigation of a complex subject. They
were in other words, led by the nose.
—Ed.]
IN THE SUEZ SEWERS
Sir,
In reviewing “The Road to Suez” by
E. Childers (Bulletin, June 2)
Douglas Terry might, since he already
indulges in marginal comment of his
own, have contradicted at least some of
Childers’ speculations and guesswork.
There is available ample detailed battle
accounts provided by both Egyptians and
the Israelis which enable the historian
to check and investigate. Mr Terry might
have commented on Childers’ view
that . . . “there never was a smashing
Israeli victory . . .”. After all, the Israelis
did destroy the Egyptian positions and
rout the Egyptian Army. They did open
the Gulf of Aqaba to Israeli shipping.
When it was all over, they had enormous


.ilitary booty, including 100 tanks, 200
)ieces of artillery, 1000 military vehicles
and huge stores of ammunition and
petrol.
Your reviewer did not hesitate to select
other unfounded statements, about
Israel’s intention “to seize Sinai, sending
raiders into Egypt, Jordan, etc.”. Yet he
states his personal view . . . “there are
many aspects of Israel that merit serious
criticism, the anti-intellectual content of
the Zionist mystique is one that comes
to mind, but I suspect liberals are chary
of taking a line for it raises possible
charges of anti-Semitism . . .”. Whoever
follows the reaction in the free Press to
events in the Middle East, knows that
developments in Israel are the subject of
wide discussion and often criticism. Many
objective critics do not hesitate to express
their views. The independent reader can
be relied upon to distinguish between ob-
jective analysis, fair criticism and expres-
sion of dissatisfaction on the one hand,
and bias, prejudice and a tendency to
make unfounded accusations on the other
hand.
It would be interesting to know what
the reviewer had in mind when referring
to “anti-intellectual content of the Zionist
mystique” and also why the Eichmann
trial is suddenly relevant to “The Road to
Suez”. Could it be that reading Mr
Childers’ book has influenced Mr Terry’s
standards?
MAX D. FRIDMAN
Dover Heights (NSW).
AUSTRALIA’S RELIGIOUS SECTS
Sir,
The Seventh-day Adventist church is
not a sect (Bulletin, May 12), but a
well-respected denomination adhering to
the Holy Scriptures, the teachings of
Jesus and the Apostolic Creed.
The denomination follows an orthodox
pattern in its conduct and relationship in
the community; it has a well-educated
ministry thoroughly trained in theology
in our own colleges and universities.
Every minister, and there are 300 in Aus-
tralia, is registered by the respective
State Governments to perform marriages
and conduct burials, etc., and normal
clerical duties. He is employed by the
denomination on a full-time basis.
An important service in the Seventh-
day Adventist church is when the rite of
baptism is administered to adult candi-
dates and youths who have attained the
age of understanding. This service is
conducted in an atmosphere of solemnity
and dignity. Candidates are not dressed
in swimming costumes as mentioned in
your article (May 12). They are attired
in specially-made baptismal gowns.
Baptism by immersion is in harmony
with the example of Jesus and teaching
of the Apostles.
The special message which is borne by
the Seventh-day Adventist church is just
as readily accepted by people in the
higher walks of life as those in the “lower
middle class”. In proclaiming the gospel
of Jesus Christ we make no distinction
between rich or poor, high or low, black
or white. We believe all men are equal
in God’s sight and therefore adopt the
principle of “whosoever will”.
It is interesting to note that the largest
Seventh-day Adventist church in Austra-
lia is located on the North Shore line
(Sydney). The Wahroonga church has
almost 1000 worshippers every Sabbath
(Saturday).
The denomination has 251 churches
in Australia and these are fairly evenly
spread through city suburbs and country
towns throughout the nation.
The business interests of the denomina-
tion in the Sanitarium Health Food
Company are for the service of humanity.
Apart from its primary function as
explained in Peter Kelly’s article. I should
point out that there are no highly paid
directors, the enterprise is managed by
capable and efficient men, who receive
very ordinary remuneration. There are
no shareholders and the profits are used
exclusively for the educational, medical,
and foreign mission programme of the
church.
PASTOR R. K. BROWN
THE AUTHENTIC TOUCH
Sir,
Through a clerical error in my article
“The Authentic Touch” (Bulletin, June
16) the population of NSW early in 1826
is given as 26,000. The figure should be
36,000.
M. H. ELLIS
Cremorne, (NSW)
ARBITRATION TWO QUESTIONS
Sir,
Although I don’t question the integrity
of Mr Kerr (Bulletin, May 26), I do
believe that an economist should also
have been given the opportunity to
speak on this question. As it is now, Mr
Kerr showed a definite bias towards
lawyers in Arbitration Commissions’ pro-
ceedings.
I would like to query him on several
aspects:
(1) What are some of the reasons
which he contends give lawyers their
strong position? (2) Does he really
believe that lawyers are better suited to
settle economic disputes compared with
economists such as Copland, Perkins,
Isaac and others? (3) How does he
explain his concept of just and reason-
ableness with his idea of three to four
years’ reviews of awards? Is this just and
reasonable with reference to employees,
who are debarred from receiving the
benefits of increased productivity for this
period, whilst employers are not —assum-
ing (i) that productivity does increase and
(ii) there are no automatic increases in
wages (e.g. as a result of an employer—■
employee’s agreement).
(4) The Commission has no definite
policy—yet before they will grant a
decision on a dispute they take into
account the “capacity” principle. Does
this not indicate a policy?
(5) Would direct negotiation between
parties not be more successful and effi-
cient than arbitration?
JOHN K. TOL
Herne Hill (Victoria).
AN MP EXPLAINS
Sir,
I would like to correct your ill-
informed correspondent, Mr Peter Kelly,
re ALP Conference NSW report (Bul-
letin, June 9).
I am not a unilateral disarmer, but a
multilateral disarmer. I support complete
and total world disarmament.
I have never advocated support of
Unity Tickets. I support the 1955 Hobart
Conference decision of non-interference
in trade unions.
I did attend the 6th World Conference
against atom and hydrogen bombs and
for total world disarmament. I cannot
agree that it was a Communist “Peace”
front conference. It is interesting to note
that this same body was the first to
condemn the recent nuclear testing by
the Soviet Union.
It is true that I have shown admiration
for the achievements of Fidel Castro.
History will prove whether he is worthy
of this.
TOM UREN
Granville (NSW).
A PROMISE FROM A PRESSURE
GROUP
Sir,
The article, “A ‘State Aid’ Election”
(Bulletin, June 2) represents the Federa-
tion of Parents and Friends of Catholic
Schools of Tasmania as being a pressure
group which hopes to make “equality in
education” the main issue in the next
Tasmanian State elections. This is a fair
representation and I have no quarrel with
it.
Towards the end of the last century,
the Australian States (or colonies as they
then were) enacted that education should
be free, compulsory and secular. Catho-
lics acknowledged the State’s right to
make education compulsory; they denied
and still deny the State’s right to make
it free only for those who were prepared
to accept a secular system of education.
It follows from this that the issue is
not and never has been one of Church
versus State or of “aid for church
schools”. The issue is between the State
and the hundreds of thousands of parents
who are being penalised financially for
exercising their civil right to select the
type of education their children shall
receive. The State (in Tasmania) has
assumed the financial responsibility for
educating children between the ages of
six and sixteen. It is discharging the res-
ponsibility, and discharging it well, to the
majority of parents who, in the exercise
of a civil right, select one system of edu-
cation for their children. It is avoiding
that same responsibility, and avoiding it
shamefully, in respect of a sizeable
minority of parents, who, in the exercise
of that same right, select another system
which is equally as efficient as the first.
D. A. KEARNEY
(President, Federation of Parents
and Friends of Catholic Schools
of Tasmania)
Rose Bay (Tasmania).


The Wild
Cat Pages and
THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
DOUBTS ON ECONOMIC STIMULANTS
all the talk of a new boom being
just around the corner there is still
considerable room for doubt whether
the February spending stimulants will
spur the economy on to full employ-
ment, let alone a full blooded boom. In
some obvious respects, notably industrial
production (if not employment) stocks’
rebuilding, retail sales and new motor
vehicle registrations, the effect of the
measures on the economy have been
heartening. But below the surface several
doubts remain.
Perhaps the most serious is that very
little impact has been made on the
level of industrial investment which the
economy depends on for a considerable
part of new income generation required
to lift it to —and bold —a state of full
employment. Income generation from
rising production, pump priming and
increased public sector investment are
unlikely to do this job unless supported
strongly by new industrial investment.
The thesis behind spending stimulants
is that they are only an aid to full
recovery, that when they have created
the necessary momentum in economic
activity thev can be tapered off. leaving
the responsibility for increasing new
income generation to production and
investment. But unless spending stimu-
lants “take” in the sense that they
prompt industry and business to promote
the necessarv volume of new investment
spending and thus new income genera-
tion from this source, their work is only
half done.
It is fairly clear that the spending
stimulants have not yet “taken” in the
sense that as well as increasing con-
sumption they have also stimulated new
industrial investment, though there are
no statistics to prove this precisely. The
trend of new industrial investment over
the six months or so prior to the
February measures showed that this
particular key to full employment was
stuck in the lock and was going to be
very difficult to turn in the right direc-
tion. If conditions after last August’s
budget had been right for a revival in
industrial investment, the introduction
of the 20 per cent investment allowance
would have prompted it.
Tt is a moot point whether the figures
for new capital raisings for the June
quarter will show any noticeable im-
provement as a result of revised ex-
pectations by industry and business on
the profitability of new investment stem-
ming from effects of the Government’s
spending stimuli on their operations.
Weighted by the £2l million response
to the Australian debenture issue by
B.H.P. during the quarter, the figures
could be misleading on this score because
B.H.P.’s capital spending goes on un-
abated in good times and bad and is
not representative of industry as a
whole. Certainly few other companies
have been in the market either for
fixed coupon or equity capital.
Apart from B.H.P. and a few other
big industrial concerns, there is little
evidence from industry of companies
newly embarking on sizeable expansion
or reconstruction projects or even
shaking the dust from old blueprints in
recent months. This is not to say the
level of industrial investment is not still
high. One can name any number of
big projects in course of construction.
Whereas up to early last year income
generation was getting the benefit of
rising industrial investment continuously
for the best part of four years with all
its multiplying effect on total incomes,
since then most concerns have cut back
their capital expenditure, whether
financed from retained profits or new
money and show few signs of restoring
it.
Tndustrial concerns have to convince
themselves that new capital expendi-
ture will prove to be profitable and this
involves several intractable factors at
the moment. The crucial one is prob-
ably that they want rather more assur-
ance than they have at the present that
the recovery is going to go further and
then be sustained. They also have to
be convinced that the emerging wider
economic union in Western Europe will
not prejudice their operations either
directly or through its repercussions on
the Australian economy in general.
There is plenty of pessimism to dispel
on this score, but much of it is clearly
unwarranted.
The idea these days is to throw
hostages to consumption, to give public
works the role of making up for any
falling off in private capital investment
during the recession, and then, when
at last industry is in the mood to step
up its capital investment, to let all three
move in unison and vie for scarce
resources in a boom. But, now, with
industrial investment barely awake from
its slumber, the boom could be further
away than some people think.
INDEX
Economic Stimulants .... 35
News Pointers, Saving for
Bankruptcy 36
Oil 37
Common Market .... 38, 39
The Aluminium Play 40
Company Reviews
Federal Hotels
SA Brewing
Cottee’s ....
Company Notes
Wild Cat Brevities ....
One To Buy .... .... .... 49
Sharemarket Summary and
Statistics .... .... 50, 51
47 Speculator’s Diary .... ... 52
48 Man on the Land .... 53, 54


NEWS POINTERS
AUSTRALIA
• The Australian Trade Mission to Brazil does not believe Brazil can
furnish an outlet for primary products displaced from Britain if the UK
enters the Common Market.
• The Federal Government may request the Loan Council to grant a
larger share of national resources for Northern Australian development.
Speaking at Emerald (Q.), the Treasurer (Mr Holt) said he hoped State
Premiers would recognise the special necessities of Queensland.
• A five-year programme plans to double timber production in Papua and
New Guinea by mid-1967, bringing the annual cut from 65m. to 120 m.
super feet.
• The Employers’ Federation of NSW advocates a permanent Economic
Advisory Council to review the economy and national development. It
should comprise representatives of Governments, employers and trade
unions.
• Rural production in Australia for 1961-62 should be valued at about
£1322.2m., the Bureau of Agricultural Economics estimates. This would
compare with 1960-61’s £1346. lm. Higher output will come from sugarcane,
sugar, dried vine fruits, wool, beef and veal, lamb, mutton, pigments, eggs,
wholemilk and butter. Rural exports are expected to total £779.6m.,
£79.5m. higher than in 1960-61.
• Motor vehicle registrations for May touched a peak for the month
of 27,375 —the best monthly figure since November, 1960.
• Overdraft approvals by the principal trading banks stood at £1720.2m.
in April, of which £744.9m. was unexercised. The approvals were £148.7m.
above their level in April, 1961 —the credit squeeze’s low point.
• Australia’s wool cheque for the 11 months of the 1961-62 selling season
to May 31 has reached £321.6m., against £289.7m. for the corresponding
period of 1960-61. Proceeds now stand £7.lm. above recipts for the whole
1960-61 season. May sales saw a small drop of £l.2m. to £38.3m., com-
pared with May last year. Average greasy prices have moved up about
5 p.c. to 54.41 d. a lb.
OVERSEAS
• Britain’s first nuclear power station solely for commercial purposes is
now feeding electricity into the national grid. Situated at Berkeley.
Gloucestershire, it should supply 275,000 kilowatts from two reactors by
the end of this year. Another 300,000 kilowatt station, at Bradwell, Essex,
goes into service soon.
• The fifth South Pacific Conference meets in Pago Pago (American
Samoa) from July 18-30, under the auspices of the South Pacific Commis-
sion. The 70 delegates come from 18 Pacific territories.
• The State-owned British Overseas Airways Corporation has joined with
the Cunard Steamship Co. to link their trans-Atlantic aviation interest.
BOAC owns 70 p.c. and Cunard 30 p.c. of a new subsidiary. The move
is receiving heavy political criticism and occurs at a time of repeated
takeover rumors surroundings Cunard.
• The total amount of loans made by the World Bank and its affiliate,
the International Development Association, for building and improving roads
amounted to almost £• 282.5 m. at December 31, 1961, representing 35 loans
to 22 countries in Africa, Asia and Latin America.
• A world-wide, 25-nation conference to discuss trade agreements is
being suggested by British and Common Market officials meeting in Brussels.
The conference would embrace cereals, meat, sugar, dairy and tropical
products.
® An auction of 21 paintings and 12 pieces of sculpture owned by the
late Sir Alexander Korda realised £464,470.
• If USA replaces its present Sugar Act, expiring on June 30, Australia
may gain the right to ship up to 200,000 tons of sugar a year to America.
A new bill, now being discussed, confers a permanent quota of 50 000
tons and possibly of a further 150,000 tons if Australia bought surplus
farm produce with dollar proceeds from this addition.
• The US might resume economic aid to Laos, said the Secretary of State
(Mr Dean Rusk).
ADVERTISING
SAVING FOR BANKRUPTCY
\ dvertising in the mass media Press,
radio and television is making devas-
ting impact upon the subconscious minds
of audiences with one word —SAVE! The
public is continuously encouraged to
SAVE. Messages offer positive induce-
ments to save money on the purchase of
a variety of products—domestic electrical
appliances, television sets, washing soaps
and detergents, cigarettes and a host of
other merchandise including furniture.
Advertising, is of course, aimed at get-
ting the public to buy. But the sales
message is stimulating the opposite re-
action —to save. And while the sales of
merchandise appear to remain at a satis-
factory level, spending is tightening up
and buying slowing down.
The gradual fall-off in buying is not
very noticeable at present, according to
retail statistics. Sales of necessities such
as foodstuffs and clothing seem to be
rising, largely due to the consequent in-
crease in population, aided by migration
and the normal replacement of worn-out
garments. On the other hand, sales of
luxuries are slow. The public is content
to forgo the purchasing of luxury items,
while it pours millions into savings
accounts.
Evidence to support this remarkable
trend is the fact that savings bank deposits
are at an all-time high. Investments in
stocks, bonds, debenture stocks, unit
trusts and life assurance are achieving
new records. Yet there is a consistent
drop in the national hire purchase debt.
What does all this prove? The public
is saving—not buying with the uninhibited
confidence of the ’fifties.
It is this uncertainty of spending which
recently encouraged a leading Melbourne
retailer to use a more positive approach
to advertising. In its advertising, the
operative word is spend. The advertising
is motivating the public to undo the purse
strings.
This positive approach shows advan-
tages which dispel the theory that saving
makes for security. The public is only as
secure as the consistent movement of
money. If money is tied up, recession
and depression inevitably follow, bringing
in their wake unemployment, starvation,
dole and despair—all the misery of an
impoverished economy. Our prosperity
depends on a more positive approach to
advertising with the gimmick word —
spend! But it is not sufficient just to
exhort the public to spend. Advertisers
must find attractive inducements and a
different copy approach, to bring about
a drastic change in the public’s sub-
conscious mind. Otherwise the tragedy of
1929-1932 will go unheeded.
EVAN BROWN


Another “Wales’ Service
>|)i «>rn n lilies
Oversea markets, like gold, are where you find
them, but it is easier to find them with the
help of the “Wales”. There you can obtain
information on new markets or be put in
touch with businessmen overseas. Exporting
is made easier for you, too, with assistance in
many ways ask for copies of the booklets
“An Australian Exporter’s Guide” and “Plan-
ning a Business Trip Overseas”.
You can bank on the “ Wales' \
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(incorporated in new south wales with limited liability)
OIL
Dr FISHER'S DAMP SQUIB
Australian Shareholders’ Associa-
tion brought two big guns in Mr
W. G. Walkley, managing director of
Ampol, and Dr H. N. Fisher, chief
geologist of the Bureau of Mineral
Resources, down to Melbourne last week
to open its series of talks and discussions
on oil search investment. This is an old
team as it was Fisher who led Walkley
and Wapet to their strike at Rough
Range in 1953 and to the expenditure
of £l9 million or so on drilling (to
date) 71 holes in the west.
Looking back on Wapet’s costly and
unfruitful experience, Mr Walkley had
no regrets, and for all the dry holes he
is still hanging on to his ten gallon hat.
So it was just as well, perhaps, he had
to retire with influenza after he spoke
because Dr Fisher then proceeded to
pour a rather cold douche on prevailing
optimism about further early new
Moonies appearing on the oil search
horizon, and to give the impression that
shareholders in Australian Oil and Gas
were discounting the prospects of the
Moonie field itself rather too highly.
For those who could follow his com-
plicated equations evaluating the field,
now in process of being tested at Moonie,
Dr Fisher proved fairly conclusively that
AOG’s share was worth only about two-
thirds of its current capitalisation in the
sharemarket, that is neglecting the pros-
pect of other commercial oil structures
being located by the company.
It was a pity that, unlike Mr H. D.
Black dealing with Common Market
problems before a Melbourne Bankers’
Institute audience later in the week, Dr
Fisher didn’t skip much of what is now
very familiar background to Melbourne’s
sophisticated investors and pitch into
more burning questions of the hour.
Maybe as a civil servant he didn’t want
to throw any hostages to share market
fortunes, not that his damp squib on
Moonie wasn’t revealing.
Getting away from the Surat Basin,
he showed there were many millions
of square miles of Cretaceous rocks and
isolated Devonian and Tertiaries else-
where in the continent and in New
Guinea which had yielded oil in hunts
in other countries. Against this there
was the awful doubt whether a great
number of closed structures and cap
rocks to trap oil existed in our own
sedimentary areas having these rocks.
Like some other noted geologists, he
seemed to prefer the prospects in West-
ern Australia, southern Victoria and New
Guinea to most areas, giving perhaps
an honorable mention for the Amadeus
Basin in the Northern Territory where
there are some fascinating anticlines.
On his showing at this meeting, Dr
Fisher would obviously not wish to be
pinned down about any particular
area, yet he must have given his
audience cause for second thoughts on
some of the wild catters currently being
well backed on the Stock Exchanges,
especially so at a time when so many
wells beyond Moonie are drilling ahead
through dry territory.
The week has in fact been dry all
round. Last weekend Anglesea (Vic.)
No. 1 was at 2882 ft, Mt Salt (SA)
6775 ft, Babrongan (WA) No. 1 3468
ft, Wandagee (WA) No. 1 3521 ft and
Wandoan (Q) at 10,438 ft.


Stocks & Holdings
Limited
Per Annum for 10 Years
or
Per Annum for S Years
£750,000 FIRST MORTGAGE
REGISTERED DEBENTURE STOCK
Trustee for Debenture
Stock Holders:
The M.L.C. Nominees Limited,
a wholly owned subsidiary of
The Mutual Life & Citizens’
Assurance Company Limited.
Application must be made on the application form attached to fhe
Prospectus, which can be obtained from:—
• Any branch of the National Bank of Australasia
in N.S.W. and Canberra.
® Stocks & Holdings Limited, 329 George Street, Sydney. BX 3041
• Any Member of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
• The Underwriting Brokers.
J. and J. NORTH
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
Kindersley House,
20 O’Connell Street,
Sydney.’ 25-6511
and
57 Hunter Street,
Newcastle. B 4645
COMMON MARKET
AUSTRALIA STILL HAS TRUMP CARD
A ustralia has still to play its trump
card in the cat - and - mouse
manoeuvres to get the best deal it can
out of Britain’s entry into the Common
Market. This view was advanced last
week by H. D. Black, doyen Sydney
economist, in an address to the Bankers’
Institute in Melbourne. The bargaining
trump is Australia’s British preferential
tariff, which gives a preferential entry
into Australia for about 80 p.c. of UK
exports to this country and is the
decisive factor in Britain having by far
the biggest share of our imports.
Mr Black thinks this would be of
crucial importance in the showdown,
which he expects to come in Sep-
tember, when the Commonwealth Prime
Ministers will have before them the out-
comeo f the sommodity-by-commodity
negotiations now under way between
Britain and the Six.
Britain knows as well as we do that
if its preferences in the Australian mar-
ket are abolished, its export trade with
us could shrink appreciably. Ultimately,
if Britain joins the C.M., this is bound
to happen anyway, as under the Rome
Treaty at the end of the transitional
period, commercial relations of all
Common Market members with non-
member countries have to be on all
fours. But in the phasing-off of our
preferences in the UK, clearly the speed
at which we dismantle Britain’s prefer-
ences here will be of the utmost import-
ance to Britain' in the transitional
period.
While The Bulletin has agreed with
this line of thought all along, it is a
little hard to follow why Mr Black
thinks the most-favored-nation tariff
will ultimately be lowered to the British
preferential level rather than the two
being equated at present MFN levels.
Mr Black seemed fairly confident that
Australia would be “looked after”
during the transitional period, but he
thought that this period would probably
be shorter than presently believed be-
cause the Six were impatient to get intra-
market free trade and to implement
the common external tariff. It might
last only until 1966, he said.
The “looking after” arrangements
would more likely be found in exemp-
tions from levies, because he failed to
see how tariff quotas the method
advocated by Mr McEwen could be
reconciled with GATT. Also, the Treaty
of Rome permitted member countries
to bring their contractual trade agree-
ments (but apparently not timeless
preference arrangements) with third
countries into the Common Market with
them. So it could be expected that at
least our wheat, sugar and meat agree-
ments would survive until their terms
were worked out.
POTASH
CONSUMPTION RISES
/Consumption of potash in Australia
during 1961 was nearly 60,000 tons
—7978 tons more than in 1960. Every
crop consumed more, but sugarcane
accounted for the most spectacular rise
—up 3800 tons —and is now the leading
potash user.
Pastures accounted for the greatest
usage in 1960 and 1959 (16,600 tons and
14,356 tons respectively), but although
they took just over 1000 tons more in
1961, the annual rate of increase tapered
off considerably.


enjoy
thoroughly
SHERRY
.ODUCJ-
OF ****
Sj°VE5 LlM'
Ask also for St. Agnes Brandy
ttSKggggggggggggggga
IS WOOL IN DANGER FROM "THE SIX?
By CROESUS
Australia shouldn’t take for granted
that wool would not suffer if Britain
joins the Common Market. At least that
is the impression one gets from talking
to Mr A. J. Burgess, who has just re-
turned from overseas after attending the
second World Congress of Man-Made
Fibres as Australian delegate.
Of course Mr Burgess, as chief execu-
tive officer of the Textile Council of
Australia, is a man-made fibres man
himself. So whether one agrees with him
or not about the effect on wool of Brit-
ain joining the Six, what he has to say
on the world trend towards blends in
fibres and in particular the growing ac-
ceptance of them in Western Europe
and the US is significant both for Aus-
tralia and our wool industry. But this
aside, he sees a hard battle ahead for
UK woollen textiles manufacturers to
hold their markets in Western Europe
if Britain joins and this would have re-
percussions on our sales of wool, the
UK still being second biggest customer.
Against this, one would have expected
that on the ultimate elimination of tariffs
in the Common Market and with Britain
a member of it, the competitive position
of UK woollen manufactures in Europe
would be enhanced. Vigorous promotion
of woollens can be expected from British
manufacturers, so while Mr Burgess has
to be respected on the subject of blends,
it could still be that free trade in tex-
tiles in the Common Market would be
to the advantage of wool.
Further, for all the threat to Canadian
manufactures should their preferences in
the UK market go by the board, one
might question whether there would be
repercussions on the present huge intake
of UK woollen manufactures by Canada,
though in this case, also, the more im-
portant factor could be any growing
preference for blends in that country.
Mr Burgess wasn't specific on this, but
it could be that the strong trend towards
blend in neighboring USA will be reflect-,
ed there in due course.
Mr Burgess suggested, too, that the
UK tops market in Canada might suffer
from these influences, as it is already
doing from the growing export of Aus-
tralian merino tops to Canada— a trade
which has sprouted up in the last few
years, is now around the £3 million a
year mark and could get into double
figures in a few years. Australian firms
such as Felt and Textiles, John Vicars
and Fort Phillip Mills are vigorously pro-
moting this trade.
In Montreal Mr Burgess found Canad-
ian mills very keen about buying more
Australian tops, which they regard as
better value than those from the UK.
But while it might look to be to our ad-
vantage, it has to be recognised that
wool is a world commodity and any in-
crease in our direct trade in it with
Canada could well be offset by a drop
in our exports to other top-making
countries, such as Britain and Belgium.
A much more vital aspect for Aust-
ralian wool exports is the likely future
attitude of the Kennedy administration
to the US tariff on our wool. On this it
was refreshing to find Mr Burgess fairly
optimistic after his talks with leading
textile men in the United States. He sees
a good chance of Australia being able to
present its case in Washington should
an easing of the duties come up for con-
sideration in the revision of tariff legis-
lation now being undertaken there. If we
keep hammering away on this subject
on the lines of Mr McEwen's persistent
pleas to the US, he believes that event-
ually the walls of Troy will fall. Again,
he believes that more vigorous promotion
of wool as a prestige fibre is on the right
lines to get a bigger usage in the United
States, if not in Asia where the unexcit-
ing market prospects point to utility
usage.
Finally it was comforting to hear that
after his world tour of textiles places Mr
Burgess is convinced that, despite the
rise of glamor man-made fibres such as
viscose terylene and the growing empha-
sis on blends, no single fibre natural
or man-made can challenge wool in
its field of use. For this reason he thinks
we shouldn’t identify our wool promotion
with that for blends. This would be as
silly as a whisky manufacturer mixing
his with the promotion of water.
ADVERTISING
RODNEY EVANS' SUCCESS
Tn the announcement last week of the
Australian Institute of Management’s
top award to Lend Lease Corporation
Ltd for the best annual company report
during 1961-62 no specific mention was
made of the part played by the advertis-
ing agency which designed the report or
of the firm which printed it. The credit
in this regard goes to Rodney H. Evans
Advertising Pty Ltd and to Waite and
Bull.
The layout and artwork constituted
ah attractive and colorful yet simple
presentation with no extravagancies of
any kind one of the conditions laid
down by the judging panel. Moreover,
the cost —<£500 for 2,000 copies—was
modest, and considerably below that of
many other entries.


THE ALUMINIUM
PLAY
By J. C. HORSFALL
ePhe present play in the Australian
aluminium world with its strong
international connections should not be
over-dramatised. Inquiries at the top of
Collins Street (Comalco) and in Geelong
(Alcoa) don’t give one the impression
that the two smelting groups concerned
are failing to face up to any awkward
truths or are acting blindly towards
future demand possibilities. Certainly a
lot of half truths about the massive
developments they have set in train have
been given easy currency where they
should not have been. Cold commercial
calculations are the order of the day in
both camps.
For all the present world over-supply
of aluminium you don’t find these
Americans or their Australian associ-
ates getting cold feet about their ex-
pansion programmes. You don’t find
them terribly worried whether Britain is
going to join the Common Market,
though naturally (and this goes par-
ticularly for Comalco) they are interested
to see that the Common Market’s ex-
ternal tariff is as low as possible.
Again, in face of their looming rivalry
in the Australian market for metal, Alcoa
and Comalco are not deeply concerned
about their future competitive strengths.
This is simply because both groups are
confident their smelters will be able to
produce metal at world competitive
prices. And while they must know
aluminium could be in over-supply here
for several years by 1965, any thoughts
of a possible price war are overshadowed
by the problem of cutting out sectors of
the market and propagating new and
expanding uses for the metal.
They are equally confident about their
future export outlets for bauxite and
alumina and quite pleased with their dis-
posal arrangements for the period before
their own new or expanded smelter
capacity can take more of available raw
material supplies, but neither will tell
you very much about these arrangements.
Both companies are clearly looking to
Japan as a big future customer for
bauxite and alumina, if not perhaps so
much for aluminium itself.
With its link with Mitsubishi in Japan,
Alcoa could well be looking there for
the disposal of part of the 160,000 tons
of alumina it will have surplus to its Port
Henry (Geelong) requirements when
Kwinana supplies come forward at the
end of next year and only half of its
planned smelting capacity is completed.
The rest could well be taken by Alcoa
of America and go to the United States.
This also looks to be the principal
planned destination for surplus WA
alumina after satisfying the full 40,000
tons of smelting capacity to be erected
at Port Henry.
Because it has to be geared into the
financing programme for its NZ smelter,
Comalco hasn’t set the time for the
erection of its alumina refining plant at
Weipa yet, but the company has already
secured contracts with three Japanese
smelters for them to take 600,000 tons
of Weipa bauxite over the next three
years and is also exploring other outlets
to open new export doors, thus pro-
moting good bread and butter business
in bauxite, pending the development of
its own alumina and smelting projects.
Yet in the long run Kaiser Aluminum
Corporation, which has a 50 p.c. interest
in Comalco could itself prove to be
the company’s best customer for both
bauxite and alumina.
In fact the interest of Kaiser and
Alcoa of American in the respective Aus-
tralian aluminium ventures seem to have
been dictated as much by their concern
about securing long-term supplies of ore
as by interest on their part in the
potential of the Australian market for
metal and any profits they might get
from their part in satisfying it. This
could also be the prime motive for the
latest step by Reynolds Metals of
America which has obtained a prospect-
ing licence over 3000 square miles of
territory in WA, as well as its interest
in the Gove (Queensland) deposits
through its share stake in British
Aluminium.
The move by the Duval (Japanese)
group in taking an option on the fringe
deposits around Gove, can be similarly
explained. All three of the major US
companies are sceptical about the outlook
for secured supplies of bauxite from their
main traditional overseas sources —■
Jamaica, Suriname and the Guianas in
the Caribbean area following recent
political developments in that part of the
world.
can count ourselves very fortunate
that the battle between America’s
three aluminium giants, Alcoa, Kaiser
and Reynolds, has led all three of them
to our shores and that the Canadian
domiciled international colossus, “Alcan”,
with its present highly important export
MR DONALD JAMES HIB-
BERD, Managing Director oj
Comalco Industries Pty Ltd ,
joined the Consolidated Zinc Group
in 1957 as Director of Finance and
Administration for Commonwealth
Aluminium Corporation Pty Ltd.
He became a director of Consoli-
dated Zinc Pty Ltd in 1958. On
the formation in November 1960 of
Comalco Industries as the holding
and management company for the
partnership between Consolidated
Zinc and Kaiser Aluminum and
Chemical Corporation of Oakland,
California, Mr Hibberd became
Managing Director.
Before coming into the business
world, Mr Hibberd, who is now
aged 45, had been a First Assistant
Secretary of the Treasury, Canberra,
his special fields being banking,
trade and industry.
outlet here for its huge Kitimat alumi-
nium production is in the thick of it.
Whatever the motives of the Americans
pouring money into Australian aluminium
projects, the great virtue for Australia
is that, come what may, they will
ultimately make us self-sufficient in
aluminium and also provide a big
addition to export income, if not perhaps
so much from aluminium metal (for
Comalco is perforce to build its main
smelter in NZ) then certainly on a big
scale from bauxite and alumina.
In less than a year the Australian pro-
jects of Alcoa and Comalco will ensure
a substantial reduction in imports both
of unwrought and wrought aluminium.
Within two years we will be self-sufficient
in unwrought metal and our only imports
of aluminium would tend to be of special
types of fabricated products such as wide
sheet, some structural types and special-


"Business expansion
is
•’ActoH’
3
and assistance . . .**
AUSTRALIAN FACTORS
LIMITED
la
for five years
or more
LONG
TERM
Bi%
p.a.
4 years
8%
p.a.
3 years
p.a.
2 years
SHORT
TERM
7%
p.a.
12 months
6?%
p.a.
9 months
6%
p.a.
6 months
5 l°/o
p.a.
3 months
si°lo
p.a.
at call
BANKERS: Australia & New Zealand Bank Ltd.
BROKERS TO THE ISSUE: Patrick & Co.
TRUSTEES: Permanent Nominees Pty. Limited.
HOW TO APPLY: Applications must be made on the form
attached to the Prospectus and the acknowledgment will be
a Registered Redeemable Unsecured Note. Applications may
be lodged at —
• Any branch of the Australia & New Zealand Bank Ltd.
• Any member of a Recognised Stock Exchange.
• Patrick & Co., 16 O'Connell Street, Brokers to the issue.
• Australian Factors Limited, 126 Phillip Street, Sydney.
Interest payable half-yearly—free of exchange.
AUSTRALIAN FACTORS LIMITED
AUSTRALIAN FACTORS LIMITED, 126 Phillip Street, Sydney.
Please send me, without obligation, a copy of your
Prospectus offering Registered Unsecured Notes.
Mr./Mrs./Miss
Address .
teas
ised components of various sorts. Some
imports, perhaps not running into high
values, will continue to come in partly
because it is not economic locally to
fabricate some products with only
specialised and limited Australian de-
mand, and conceivably because overseas
suppliers are able successfully to compete
in the Australian market for other
products.
The importance of this in terms of our
overall balance of payments should not
be underestimated simply because
aluminium imports cost Australia only
£llm. last year or about 1 p.c.
of the total import bill of £loB6m.
Within a few years we could easily
be earning net exports of this amount,
even much more, on aluminium metal
and ore trade. And, quite apart
from exports of bauxite, alumina and
primary metal, the fabricating industry
here has expectations of winning export
markets for finished and semi-finished
products once the Australian price of
primary metal is reduced to world com-
petitive levels.
At present, Bell Bay metal (the only
internal source) is highly protected
but the duty is going to be removed alto-
gether when the present tariff arrange-
ment is terminated in 1964. In that event
the Australian market price of primary
metal will be substantially reduced. How-
ever, there could be a sizeable increase
in price over the interim period, during
which fabricators will have to take an
increasing proportion of their supplies
in highly-priced Bell Bay metal as these
become available. This does not augur
very well for the fabricators in the in-
terim period.
Rather more than half (56 p.c.)
of last year’s aluminium imports were
of unwrought metal from Canada (Alcan)
and the United States (mainly Kaiser),
virtually our only suppliers. The other
44 p.c. was imported as semi-
fabricated and fabricated products from
these, the UK and some European
countries. In tonnage total imports
catered for nearly two-thirds of Aus-
tralia’s aluminium requirements in 1961,
when in its first slip for many years from
a strongly upward trend, consumption
dipped from 44,000 to about 36,000
tons. The other third of consumption
was satisfied by metal from Comalco’s
plant at Bell Bay, Tasmania (this plant
is two-thirds owned by Comalco and one-
third by the Tasmanian Government).
Kaiser “know - how” has worked
miracles at the Bell Bay plant over the
last year or so. Innovations such as the
use of refractory metals instead of carbon
for cathodes and redesigning of the Hall
reduction cells, both of which have been
developed jointly by Kaiser and British
Aluminium, promise to give a sub-
stantially higher output of metal from a
given amount of electricity used in the
Hall smelting process. (It takes about
eight kilowatt hours of electricity to
smelt one lb. of aluminium.) However, it
should be understood that Comalco’s
immediate preoccupation at Bell Bay is
to increase basic smelting capacity rather
than to improve existing plant.
Recent modifications have already
raised output at Bell Bay from a rate of
12,000 tons a year to an actual current
rate close to 16,000 tons with little
increase in basic plant. From 16,000
tons capacity by the end of this year the
plant will be doubled to 32,000 tons
early next year and brought up to 48,000
tons of metal a year by 1964.
Being fully competitive with the best
plants in the world, the new capacity will
give aluminium metal output here what,
except for steel ingot production, is a
unique position for an Australian
industry. This competitiveness will give
the companies great flexibility in the dis-
posal of metal output which will stand
them in good stead until Australian con-
sumption is sufficient to absorb all the
metal from the completed plants.


Actually smelters would not normally
be operated at more than 85-90 p.c.
capacity. The industry reckons that if it
were necessary to operate at 90 p.c.
capacity this would be a signal for
installing new plant. If Australian con-
sumption increases as expected, it could
be say, 10,000 tons below combined
optimum output from Comalco and
Alcoa in 1965.
Possibly Alcoa won’t be in its optimum
cost position until 1967, when it plans to
be using power from its own electric
power station to be built at Anglesea
and supplied from its own brown coal
field there. In the interim Alcoa is to
use electricity from the State Electricity
Commission’s grid. The cost of these
supplies is a confidential matter between
the company and the Commission. Con-
ceivably it could be high enough to put
its smelter at a slight cost disadvantage
vis-a-vis Bell Bay, which under an agree-
ment with the Tasmanian Hydro-Elec-
tricity Commission is assured of low cost
hydro - electric energy for smelting
capacity up to 48,000 tons a year by
early 1964.
But when Alcoa begins to draw its
alumina supplies from Kwinana at the
end of next year it could have a slight
pull on Bell Bay in this respect, because
construction of Comalco’s 360,000 tons
a year alumina plant at Weipa is not yet
in sight. Until it can draw alumina from
Weipa for Bell Bay, Comalco will have
to bear the higher costs of transporting
either imported or Weipa bauxite. (It
takes four tons of bauxite to refine two
tons of alumina from which one ton of
metal can be smelted.) However, when
Weipa’s alumina plant is operating and
both companies are at maximum
efficiency, it is improbable that cost dif-
ferentials will be more than fractional.
A recent investigation in the USA
revealed that metal production costs of
the three major aluminium producers
varied very little.
The United States has led the way in
the development of new uses for
aluminium, and consumption of the
metal there in some 4000 different
applications has been raised to about
25 lbs. a head. Australian consumption
is well below this and at about 10 lbs.
a head is still lower than the UK figure
of 14 lbs.
The great hope of the industry is that
given a high rate of general economic
development, vigorous market promotion
coupled with the prospect of the Aus-
tralian price coming down to world
parity will revolutionise usage of the
metal in the next decade, even if this is
partly at the expense of steel, plastics and
other materials.
In being sceptical about Australian
demand for aluminium rising from
36,000 tons last year to 57,000 tons
next year (as estimated by the industry)
one could be somewhat misled both by
the effect of the current recession on
aluminium consumption here and also by
the present world surplus of the metal.
But these companies do not airily project
figures for demand and, admitting there
will be a gap in the first year or two,
their exhaustive calculations show pros-
pective optimum outputs will be in line
with the likely levels of consumption
here.
Moreover, in proceeding with their
plans they are fortified by expert
estimates that whereas Free World smelt-
ing capacity of 4,110,000 tons in 1960
was 829,000 tons greater than demand,
in 1965 the Free World will have a
300,000 tons deficit of capacity (against
5,000,000 tons consumption) and that by
1970 the deficit will have risen to about
1,000,000 tons (against demand of
6,400,000 tons). On these estimates, if
they had any doubts about the market
here in the next seven years, they could
dismiss them against the backdrop of the
projected Free World statistical picture.
And in the same context their
estimates of the likely prospect for
demand in Europe suggest that even
given a substantial expansion of capacity
in the main smelting countries there
(Norway, France, Italy and Germany)
Europe (including UK which at present
imports most of its requirements of
300,000 tons of metal) is likely to need
imports of 475,000 tons in 1965 and
600,000 tons in 1970 against its present
imports of only 340,000 tons a year.
It is perhaps misleading to look at
possible outlets for metal exports in
bilateral trade terms. But the envisaged
deficiency of aluminium in Europe
coupled with the probability that USA’s
import demand could be as much as one
million tons a year by 1970, and also
the scope for raising aluminium con-
sumption per head all over the world
(particularly in the under - developed
countries) give solid grounds for thinking
that, for all the projected capacity in
West Africa (the Volta River project,
for example, which the World Bank is to
assist), and elsewhere there will be no
lack of export outlets from Australia and
New Zealand (where Comalco is pro-
gramming initial output of 100,000 to
120,000 tons of metal). Where promotion
is backed by massive organisations, such
as Kaiser and Alcoa of America confi-
dence is all the more solidly founded.
The manoeuvres of the aluminium
fabricating interests to gear themselves
for the expected upsurge of demand in
the coming years are almost as intriguing
as the rivalry between Comalco and
Alcoa in the metal producing field. In
fact, the two struggles are closely inter-
related. With the possibility of over
production in sight, both Comalco and
Alcoa are literally flat out to secure out-
lets for their metal and mill products.
The latter will in both cases consist
mostly of aluminium alloy, sheet, foil,
extruded shapes and tubular products.
Alcoa is erecting capacity to produce
14,000 tons of these by the end of 1963.
By then Comalco’s fully-owned fabricat-
ing capacity will be well above its present
11,000 tons, of which 5000 tons is sheet
and 6000 tons extruded products (mainly
at Yennora, NSW, where a big expansion
programme is under way). In addition
Comalco has a 20 p.c. interest in Crane
Copper and Aluminium Pty Ltd whose
capacity is about 6000 tons.
For its part Alcoa is bound to look
to Metal Manufactures Ltd which is
46.12 p.c. owned by Broken Hill
South and North Broken Hill, two of
the Australian partners in Alcoa, to take
a sizeable portion of its output. One of
the reasons for these two companies,
together with the closely allied Western
Mining Corporation, sponsoring the
Alcoa venture was that Metal Manu-
factures Ltd which is the biggest cable
and wire maker and, after the Australian
Aluminium group, the biggest alu-
minium user in the country, was anxious
to get cheaper local supplies of alu-
minium than that part of its supplies
it has been obliged to take from Bell Bay.
Dwarfing the other companies in
fabricating capacity but without as yet
producing metal, Australian Aluminium
and its subsidiary Aluminium Foils (Aus-
tralia) Pty Ltd “Australuco” —is ex-
pected to have 29,000 tons of fabricating
capacity (mainly at its Granville and
Cabramatta plants) by the end of 1963.
This group is owned equally by Alcan,
which is at present Australia’s main over-
seas supplier of aluminium, and by
British Aluminium Ltd in which Rey-
nolds of America has a big interest.
Alcan will certainly still be looking
to continue to supply Australuco despite
the availability of adequate supplies of
metal from Alcoa and Comalco plants
in Australia in 1964. Presuming that
Comalco and Alcoa will by then be pro-
ducing metal here at world prices,
Alcan’s only disadvantage in competition
with them will lie in freight costs.
It will be interesting to see where
Australuco will turn for its major
supplies after next year. Its last year’s
results were dismal (net loss of £461,129)
because the general recession cut back
demand at a time when the average cost
of its metal remained high. The beauty
of the Alcoa and Comalco projects from
Australuco’s viewpoint is that after next
year it will be assured of getting all its
primary metal supplies at world prices.
The reduced cost of primary metal
should greatly stimulate demand for its
products as well as stimulate Australian
consumption of aluminium in general.


m
HELP
m =OfiT-fa
all the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM 2001.
WANTED TO BUY
FOR CASH
Shares, listed or unlisted,
Forestry Bonds, etc.
J. W. GRANT & CO.
549 St. Kilda Road,
Melbourne
Telephone: 51-6243
Est. 1939
COMPANY REVIEWS AND NOTES
FEDERAL HOTELS LTD
£250,000 8 p.c. NOTES ISSUE
YI/hen other hoteliers are : n straitened
*" circumstances it is interesting to
examine the affairs of the Australia-wide
chain, Federal Hotels Ltd, which is cur-
rently making an issue of £250,000 in
8 p.c. registered unsecured notes. These
have a currency of seven years, and will
be used to repay 7 p.e. notes of a sub-
sidiary, Lennons Hotel Ltd, which fall
due this month.
The first hotel in the chain was the
Federal Hotel in Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, to which was added the Hotel
Alexander in Spencer Street, in 1953.
This unit is now known as the Savoy-
Plaza. In 1954 the prestige hotel, Men-
zies, was acquired, followed by Ushers
Hotel in Sydney in 1955. Wrest Point
Riviera Hotel of Hobart, run by Aust-
ralian National Hotels, was the next to
join the group.
The lease of Markillies Hotel in Mel-
bourne was taken over by a subsidiary,
and in 1957 the Hampton Court
Hotel in King’s Cross strengthened rep-
resentation in Sydney. A wholly-owned
subsidiary Taverns Ltd was formed in
1957-8 to construct licensed motels in
selected country areas. So far nothing
has been done in this direction, but Tav-
erns has a six-year lease of the catering
facilities at the Essendon International
Air Terminal, which is expected to
prove very lucrative.
Federal Hotels intends to make a new
hotel over Wynyard railway station its
main Sydney activity. This is being con-
structed by Wynyard Holdings Ltd, a
subsidiary of Project Development Cor-
poration Ltd. Federal Hotels has a 30-
year agreement to manage this 260 bed-
room hotel, which will be known as
Menzies Sydney. Federal Hotels has sub-
scribed £.100,000 of the capital of Wyn-
yard Holdings.
The latest addition to the chain was
the purchase last year of three Queens-
land hotels, Lennons Hotel Ltd of Bris-
bane, Lennons Toowoomba Hotel Ltd
and Lennons Broadbeach Hotel Ltd. The
Broadbeach hotel was built in 1956 at
a cost of £1 million, and the Toowoomba
hotel was also built in that year. The
Brisbane hotel is managing the other
two under a leasing agreement.
Shares in West Flinders Pty Ltd,
operating Markillies Hotel, were sold
during the last financial year, and the
freehold of Ushers in Sydney was also
sold. This left eight hotels in the group,
operating in all major cities except
Adelaide and Perth. Their interstate
booking system and facilities for book-
ing from overseas, greatly assist in main-
taining high occupancy rates.
Assets have been revalued from time
to time, after takeovers. In 1960-61 the
Wrest Point property was written up by
£115,000, Federal Hotel by £27,039,
Savoy Plaza by £541,229, and the Fed-
eral building by £200,000. From this
shareholders received a one-for-four
bonus. A bonus distribution was pre-
viously made in the ratio of one-for-two
in 1955.
General economic conditions caused a
sharp recession in trading in the
second half of 1960-61, and profit for the
year dropped from £330,909 to £246,069.
Tax provision was cut from £235,513 to
£191,603, but depreciation charge was
increased from £62,649 to £86,693.
Earning rate on ordinary capital was
13.3 p.c. in 1957, 11.9 p.c. in 1958,
16.6 p.c. in 1959, 19 p.c. in 1960 and
8.9 p.c. in 1961: —
PARENT AND SUBSIDIARY
June 30 Net Profit Dividends Reserves
Pref. Ordinary
£ £ % £ £
1956 206,852 4582 12V 2 = 180,388 584,124
Less Reduction in assets
revaluation 47,658 536.466
Less tax underprovided 288 536,178
Less intangibles
■written off .. 4590 531,588
Les, Div. on add. shares
in Menzies 2337 529,251
Minority interest in profits
of subsidiaries acquired 647 529,898
1957 4674 10 = 162,859 584.141
Less reduction in asset
revaluation .. 39,676 544.465
Less tax underprovided 3953 540,512
Ado to note redemption 147 540,659
Less intangibles w/o. 4810 535.849
1958 204,903 4674 10 = 169,086 566,992
Net add to asset
revaluation 183,374 750,366
Less intangibles w/o . 4810 745.556
Less tax underpro-'ided 429 745,127
Less adjustment of
imprest amounts .. .. 523 744,604
Add unsecured notes
redemption .... 37 744,641
1959 286,387 4733 12V 2 = 211,358 814,937
Less tax underprovided 7780 807,157
Assets revaluation .. .. 52,382 859,539
Unexplained addition . . 1194 860,733
Intangibles written off 5632 855,101
1960 330,909 <735 12 ] / 2 = 211,358 969,917
Capital profits .. .. 193,372 1,163,289
Assets revaluation .. .. 883,268 2,046,557
Less reserves
capitalised 422,716 1,623,841
Less tax underprovided 340 1,623,501
Less loss sale assets .. 970 1,622,531
1961 246,069 9921 10 = 266,771 1,591,908
The increase in unsecured notes in the
last term was partly due to the issue
of £416,173 in 8 p.c. registered unse-
cured notes as part payment for shares
in Lennons Hotel Ltd. Total assets of the
group approximately doubled during the
year, while total shareholders’ funds rose
from £2,713,395 tc £5,291,290:
PARENT AND SUBSIDIARY
Paid capital: 1959 1960 1961
£ £ £
Pref. .. . 52,616 52,616 112,616
Ord . 1,690,862 1,690,862 3,586,766
Reserves .. .. 814,937 969,917 1,591,908
Minoril-y
interests 62,550 60,000 150,000
Unsecured notes 482,500 482,500 1,175,523
Unpaid pur-
chase money 66,682 131,402 200,541
Mortgages .. 417,300 407,200 1,121,812
Overdraft . . 218,494 284,695 541,919
Creditors end
annuals . . 167.633 205,351 384,458
Tax provision 171.287 236,443 231,919
’inaJ dividend 211,358 105,679 134,504
4,356,219 4,626,665 9,231,966
Properties . . 3,517,026 3,762,274 7,331,439
Plant .. .. 579,839 579,449 1,117,87 i
Work in progress 3,457 11,922 82,612
Investments . . 6,357 70,957
Stocks & Shares 78,188 78,167 165,740
Debtors .. .. 92,303 116,809 184,179
Cash 73,045 66,149 43,749
Intangibles .. 12,361 5,538 235,419
4,356,219 4,626,665 9,231,966
The nature of the business requires
large sums to be tied up in proper-
ties, and these are relatively unencum-
bered by mortgages or other secured
loans. Borrowed capital would seem to
be the best means of financing expan-
sion projects such as the £2m. extension
to Menzies Hotel, on the adjoining site
now occupied by Selborne Chambers.
But first the group must present a health-
ier earnings picture.
In the prospectus for the latest note
issue, directors reported that profit for
the six months ended December 31,
1961, was £131,971, after tax of £lOO,-
137. This compares with profit of £246,-
069 in the previous full year. However
in February the interim dividend had
been announced as 4 p.c., suggesting an
8 p.c. annual rate. In 1961, after the one-
for-four bonus, dividend was cut from
124 p.c. to 10 p.c. paid in an interim
6£ p.c. and final 34 p.c.
To cover the preference charges, and
pay even a reduced 8 p.c. ordinary divi-
dend, the company must earn at least
£297,076, so a marked improvement in
trading is required for the balance of
the year to June.
With an asset backing of 6s. lid. at
the last count, the ss. ordinary shares
were recently exchanged at a few pence
above par. This rather gloomy view
may be justified on publication of the
1961-62 accounts.


CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on Bth March, 1950.
(ASSETS EXCEED £11,000,000.)
PER ANNUM
4YEARS
INTEREST
PERIOD
9% P.A 4 years
Bi% P.A. ... 3 years
8% P.A 2 years
7P.A. . . 12 months
6% P.A. ... 6 months
FUNDS MAY BE WITHDRAWN IN A PERSONAL EMERGENCY
APPLICATIONS MUST BE MADE ON THE FORM ENCLOSED
IN THE PROSPECTUS, WHICH IS NOW AVAILABLE FROM:
All Branches of the BANK OF N.S.W.
The Company's Offices,
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
SRJC.5 R J C .^ E P : Ist1 st Rr - Empire House, Corner Wharf and Queen Sts.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street
NEWCASTLE WEST: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter St.
WAGGA: 147 Bayliss Street.
Any Member of the Stock Exchange
BROKERS:
COMME *l' CO G fM YU J LL tK l e lH. ber | -°t the Sy dne y Sfock Exchange)
FcXK.inrr (Memt >ers of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
BANKERS FOR THE ISSUE AND THE COMPANY: THE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
corn/AB
SA BREWING CO. LTD
RIPE FOR ANOTHER BONUS
FFhe brief appearance of big English
brewing concern, Charrington and
Co. Ltd, on the Victorian scene, caused
a minor ripple in South Australia. South
Australian Brewing Co. Ltd, the only
distributor of draught beer, and pro-
vider of 80 p.c. of the bottled beer, ex-
changed shares with its local competi-
tor, Cooper and Sons Ltd, so that SA
Brewing now has about 25 p.c. of Coop-
er’s issued capital. Otherwise the year was
one of smooth well-ordered progress in
profit-making and the improvement of
hotels.
SA Brewing has been slaking the
thirsts of citizens of South Australia, the
Northern Territory and Broken Hill since
1888. A plant at West End, producing
draught beer, is said to have the most
modern brewhouse this side of the
Equator. Casks are mechanically
handled. At Southwark another large
brewery turns out canned and bottled
beer.
A large number of hotels are owned
throughout the State and in Broken Hill,
which serve the company’s product,
These are being modernised pro-
gressively. A new hotel has been erected
at Victor Harbour, another at Hendon
and a third is under construction at
Mansfield Park. Several metropolitan
licences have been sought in newly de-
veloping areas.
Disclosed profits show an almost con-
tinuous upward trend, although the mar-
gin of earnings over dividend distribu-
tions is not great. However, as neither
depreciation nor taxation provision is
divulged, the inference is that profits are
conservatively stated. In the year to Feb-
ruary 28, 1962, profit advanced a further
£31,962 to £441,211, and earning rate
from 8.7 to 9.4 p.c. on unchanged capi-
tal:—
Feb Profit f —- —Dividends serves serves
1950 92,270 10 p.c.=r 72,208 20,1)62 4ef 627
Inner reserves
i net 1 „ d l^ - 194,681 660,308
I”, 387 10 p.c.= 108,312 25,075 685.383
1952 127,944 10 p.c.— 108,312 19,632 705 015
~„T o staff fund 10,895 694.120
1903 147,422 10 p.c.:= 108.312 39,110 733.230
To staff fund 10.000 79*? 970
1954 180,945 10 p.c.zr 144,941 36.004 759.234
1905 204.649 10 p.c.= 146.944 57,705 • ■'■'9
Added reserves 1,416,618 2 233 K 57
Reserves
capitalised 1,083,120 1 150 437
JSSS 256,390 7>/ 2 p.c - 219.774 36,616
ntt lL 8 V& P ‘ C ~ 220 ’ 025 24.613 1,211,666
1908 285,490 B%p.c.=: 257.254 28.236 1 239 902
1959 314.013 10 p.C.= 294,028 19,985 1,259 887
Asset-
revaluation 2,813,911 4 073 798
Reserves
capitalised 1,764,166 2 309 632
341 - 169 7V 2 *p.c.= 323.430 17,739 2327371
1961 409,249 B>/4p.c.= 388,116 21,133 2 348 504
1962 441,211 B%p.c.= 411,638 29,573 2.378^077
* On bonus increased capital.
Shareholders can look for annual incre-
ments in the dividend rate until the 10
p.c. is restored, and the company is ripe
for another bonus.
Reserves represent net tangible asset
backing of 7s. 6d. per ss. ordinary share.
Of the £4,621,312 issued ordinary capi-
tal, only £1,333,111 has been paid up in
money. Capital issues since the war have
been the one-for-two, one-for-three and
one-for-four par issues up to 1955, fol-
lowed by two bonus distributions in the
ratio of three-for-five shares held. These
bonuses were made from revaluation of
company freeholds in 1956 and 1959. A
balance of £1,049,745 still remains in
kitty for future benefits:—
1960 1961 1962
£ £ £
Paid capital 4,704.444 4.704 444 4 704 444
Reserves . . . 2,327,371 2,348.504 2,378.077
Overdraft _ 159.700
Creditors and tax
provision .. 933,440 1,086.587 1,159 136
Staff fund .. 25,000 25,000 25 000
Final div. .. 176,416 211,700 235.222
8,166,671 8,376,235 8.661.f79
Freeholds .. 5.510.742 5,851 041 6.285 720
Plant etc. .. 1,314,502 1.285,476 1,345 890
Share
investments 74.465 135.383 134 705
Stocks .. .. 384.358 368.543 388.862
Debtors .. 416,347 478.020 447 846
Advances etc. 446.067 242,724 57 986
Cas h .. .. 20,190 15,648 570
8,166,671 8,376,235 8,661,579
The company was rather less liquid as
at latest balance date, but the financial
position is still very healthy.
In the 1961 chairman’s address men-
tion was made that Australia’s beer


*
finance?
Si
see
ESANDA CAN PROVIDE THE MONEY YOU NEED
Hire Purchase
■ Motor vehicles
(new or good used)
■ Business equipment
■ Agricultural plant
■ Domestic equipment
Instalment Loans for
property improvement,
or any useful purpose
Developmental Projects
■ Capital equipment
■ Book Debt financing
■ Mortgages
■ Contracts of Sale
■ Leasing
■ Factoring
ESANDA LIMITED
140 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Telephone 63 9261.
313 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telephone 2 3031.
316 Murray Street, Perth.
Telephone 21 5553, 23 2450.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
273 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
Telephone 8-4913/4.
1 Criterion Street, Hobart.
Telephone 3-3679.
M.L.C. Building, London Circuit,
Canberra. Telephone J-4040.
Room 209, 2nd Floor, Caltex House,
167 Kent Street, Sydney. Telephone 27-5334, 27-5461.
ELFI
excise rate was the highest in the world,
absorbing more than half the retail price.
Otherwise breweries have little to com-
plain about, and shareholders of South
Australian Brewing nothing at all.
SA Brewing has a faithful following
amongst Southern drinkers and investors,
and at the current price of around 14s.
to yield 3.2 p.c. the ss. ordinary shares
are rated higher than all other brewers
in Australia for potential benefits. Price
range this year has been from 14s. 9id.
down to 12s. lOd.
COTTEE’S LTD
TEN FRUITFUL
YEARS
has celebrated its tenth anni-
versary as a listed company with a
colorful and more comprehensive set of
accounts, for the 12 months to March
31, 1962. But of more real value to
shareholders was the build-up of specific
reserves to £lm. precisely.
Established in 1927 to absorb a going
concern producing passionfruit products
(including the popular Passiona cordial)
the company has expanded its product
range to include jams, jellies, fruit-
spreads, toppings, packaged soups and
desserts sold through groceries, confec-
tioners and milk bars. Cordial produc-
tion is now only a small part of the
business.
Although based in NSW, the com-
pany has factories in all mainland capi-
tals and in New Guinea. A considerable
portion of raw materials is supplied from
the company’s citrus orchard near Gos-
ford (NSW) and the subsidiary Dyasons
(Mildura) Pty’s property at Mildura
(Vic.)
In the latest term Cahills Quick Freez-
ers Ltd was taken over in NSW, but
group profits do not include a full 12
months’ trading for Cahills.
In 1959-60 Passiona Bottling Co.
(Sydney) Ltd and Passiona Bottling Co.
(Brisbane) Ltd became wholly-owned
subsidiaries. Shareholdings are retained
in Passiona Bottling Co. (Melb.) Ltd,
also operating in Adelaide, Passiona Bot-
tling Co. (Perth) Ltd and Passiona (Bris-
bane) Pty Ltd, all associate franchised
companies engaged in bottling and aerat-
ing soft-drinks.
Cottee’s notched another profit record
in 1962, maintaining earning rate on
higher average ordinary capital. Result
was £183,128 after allowing £lOB,OOO


DO YOU LIKE
THE NEW LOOK
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 2521 G.P.0., Sydney
NAME
ADDRESS
Please arrange for my BULLETIN to
be delivered to me each week by
MY NEWSAGENT
BY DIRECT SUBSCRIPTION
Please tick ( /) whichever method of
delivery you prefer.
For those desiring direct sub-
scription:
Please find enclosed my cheque/money
order for months subscription to
THE BULLETIN.
RATES (Australia and New Guinea): 1 year—
£2 125.: V 2 year—£l 6s. Post free. British
... „ £3 6s - Other countries: £3 16s.
N.Z. SUBSCRIPTIONS (Remit to Box 965
Wellington, N.Z.): I year—£2 12s (N z’
currency); y 2 year—£i 6s. (N.Z. currency)!
Please add exchange to cheques.
Perhaps this is the first issue of BULLETIN Y®®
have read. But whether you are a new reader or an
old one why don # t you make sure of YOUR copy of
THE BULLETIN b Y ordering it each week? There are
two ways of doing it either through your newsagent
or by direct subscription. The form at left offers you
your choice of method of delivery. You may send us
your name and address and we will arrange for the
newsagent nearest you to deliver your copy of
THE BULLETIN we ek and charge it to your account.
Or, if you prefer it, we will mail each week's copy
to your address by direct subscription.
The
Bulletin
Incorporating The Australian Financial Times
(1961 £106,000) for tax and £104,107
(£83,306) for depreciation:—
, Dividends
Prefs. Ord.
5& 8 To Re- Re-
March, Profit, p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Revaluation assets, 65,000 .. .. 157,896
Reserves capitalised, 65,000 .. .. 92,896
1953 34,961 3,514 15 p.c. = 22,500 8,947 101,843
1954 43,893 3,514 16 p.c. = 24,000 16,379 118,222
1955 61,727 3,514 15 p.c. = 30,000 28,213 146,435
5 p.c.
1956 83.075 3,250 15 p.c. = 36,165 44,660 191,095
1957 100,777 3,112 15 p.c. = 37,500 60,165 251,260
Revaluation investments, 30,750 .. .. 282,010
1958 120,197 2,862 16 p.c. 39,350 77,985 359,995
PARENT AND SUBSIDIARY
Share-premiums, 55,000 .. 415,495
1959 130,684 2,613 15 p.c. = 43,559 84,512 500,007
From inner reserves. 150,000 .. 650,007
Increase pref. capital redemption
reserve, 5000 .. 655,007
Reserves capitalised, 68,748 .. .. 581,259
1960 141,722 2,363 15 p.c. 67.7.92 71,567 652,826
1961 162,369 2,113 15 p.c. = 67,801 92,455 745,281
Share premiums .. 210,007 955,288
1962 183,128 1,863 15p.c. = 75,676 105,589 1,060,877
Earning rate since 1955 has been 29.1
p.c., 34.1, 39.1, 46.9, 47.7, 30.8, 35.5
and in 1962 35.9 p.c. on ordinary capi-
tal. The addition of £210,007 to share
premiums represents the premium of £1
per unit on the ss. stock units issued to
take over Cahills. Net tangible asset
backing per ss. ordinary stock • t has
improved from 12s. 3d. in 1960 to 13s.
3d. in 1961 and 15s. 6d. in 1962.
Capital movements (other than for
takeovers) since 1952, has been a bonus
issue in 1952 (13 for 17), par issue in
1955 (one-for-three), par issue in 1956
(23 for 100), and a bonus in 1960 (one-
for-two) after the economical takeovers
of the Sydney and Brisbane bottling
companies.
The Cahills takeover is largely re-
sponsible for the significant increase in
freeholds and the group’s liquidity in
the last financial year:—
1960 1961 1962
£ £ £
Paid capital
Pref 45,000 40,000 35,000
Ord 452,011 452,011 504,511
Reserves .. .. 652,827 745,281 1,060,877
Mortgage .. .. 159,828 195,554 184,698
Overdraft .. .. 55,690 29,673
Creditors .. .. 273,573 274,515 248,409
Tax provision .. 156,843 173,306 110,282
Final div. .. 46.326 46,201 51,326
Inter-co suspense 36,187 28,588 33,600
1,822,595 2,011,146 2,258,376
Freeholds .. 380,974 475,826 615,869
Plant .. .. 519,303 589,721 617,117
Shares assoc, cos. 49,331 49,332 52,018
Stock .. . . 527,284 517,760 619,432
Debtors, .. .. 292,598 353,505 323,806
Cash etc 53,105 25,002 30,134
£ 1,822,595 2,011,146 2,258,376
The only long-term liability is the mort-
gage held by the AMP society.
Directors reported that notwithstand-
ing keen competition in the food and
drink industries, the company’s turnover
increased in 1961-62. The chairman and
the chief chemist investigated develop-
ments in food industries overseas, and
export opportunities for the group's food
lines. The most up-to-date methods were
examined for the production of citrus
fruits, soft drinks, jams and frozen
foods.
Soft-drink production for the Sydney
metropolitan area is being re-located
in new premises now under construc-
tion at Auburn.
The company’s great initiative, proven
earning capacity in all phases of the
economic cycle, and its solid reserves
make Cottee’s shares a more interesting
investment proposition than older com-
panies in the food industry.
F .ving successfully added to assets
and earnings strength three times in the
last three years by takeover Cottee’s is
likely to adopt this technique again.
And the big plough-back of profits each
year further generates growth.
Shareholders can rely on the ' p.c.
ordinary dividend (now paid for the last
8 years) and can reasonably expect an-
other bonus within a year or two. The
merits of the stock are well appreciated
as the current price of 31s. to yield 2.4
p.c. certifies, but the stock has been
down to 275. this year, and opportunities
of a more reasonable purchase may pre-
sent themselves later.


w'
ULL®
vW*;
Ai
SHU',
n
Wte
:^r xr\c
« r-j
n
,'.V,::-
mm
rm
THE CHANGING FACE OF A NATION
A piercing blast and eyes turn skywards to watch the dogman
direct into place a girder of steel . . . another new building
is a step nearer completion. A thundering explosion, a whole
cliff shudders and a wall of earth comes crashing down ready to
be swept away by a giant bulldozer ... a new national project
is under way. Throughout the length and breadth of Australia
such sights are becoming commonplace. A whole generation can
watch in wonder as the face of the nation changes . . . monthly,
almost daily.
Proud to be encouraging and contributing to such expansion is
A.N.Z. Bank. With a record of service dating back more than
125 years, A.N.Z. Bank looks forward to continuing to give the
finest in banking service to the people of this growing land.
A-N-Z
■* -» *
tjou'Qd QaMjz, adb
A*N*Z BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
Cheque Accounts Savings Accounts
ANZ694.24R
PARINGA RE-FORMS
MOVES AWAY FROM GOLD
T>ight amid the curious glare now
beating upon gold shares and US
gold stocks, an old established mining
company plots a peaceful and modest
rebirth. This is Paringa Mining and
Exploration Co. Ltd., established in
London as long ago as 1909. It was
productive of many a favorable dividend
via the Kalgoorlie fields. Failing in a
more recent venture after Queensland
uranium, Paringa has remained opera-
tionally inactive.
It does not propose to re-enter the
gold hurly-burly. Yet its recent ad-
mission into the Tin Development Part-
nership may be watched with interest, as
well as a half share obtained in some
Northern Territory copper leases.
The tin prospects had earlier brought
together Aberfoyle Tin NL, North Aus-
tralian Uranium Corporation NL and a
joint grouping of Metals Exploration NL
with South Alligator Uranium NL. At
least two active mining and treatment
operations are expected.
Paringa retains London Stock Ex-
change listing and will seek Melbourne
listing after a new issue. Half of the
immediate funds required are to be
raised in London and half in Australia.
Underwriters have been secured two
Melbourne sharebrokers and a London
firm.
Issued capital comes down to a
nominal £stg.9ooo, while authorised
capital stands at £stg.soo,ooo in 2-|m.
4s. stg. shares. Management shifts from
London to Australia, with a majority of
local directors.
The big and the small are focusing
on copper these days, as a surcease from
uranium and lead-zinc. Mount Isa hardly
seems threatened, but every effort may
be appreciated. Aberfoyle’s chairman,
some little while ago, also promised
greater things in Australian tin.
PLACER SELLS PATO
JTUke the cash and waive the rest may
perhaps have inspired Placer
Development’s disposal of its Pato Con-
solidated Gold Dredging shares. In one
swoop Placer practically ceases to mine
the currently puzzling metal and
emerges supremely rewarded from
trouble-strewn South America. “Un-
certain political conditions” can be
ignored in one spot at least.
The 1,150,000 Pato shares, represent-
ing a 32.8 p.c. interest, went to Pago
Mining Ltd, wholly owned subsidiarv of
South American Gold and Platinum Co.,
of New York, for U. 5.53,162,500. This
price is equivalent to $2.75 a share and
shows a profit of roughly one million
dollars, based on prevailing market
values.
Notably wise before in its apt sale of
assets, Placer receives a rich accession
to already strong liquids. . These could
fertilise new copper holdings in both
Canada (Craigmont Mines) and the
Philippines. Australia need not be for-
gotten either.
In the meantime, Pato lifted profit
in the three months to March 31 by
100,000 Canadian dollars to 275,000
dollars, or 8 cents a share. An
additional deep digging dredge, No. 8,
is to be installed at Pato and should
begin operations about mid-1963. Ex-
ploration has been drastically curtailed
in Brazil pending “a more satisfactory
political atmosphere”.


CUSTOM
E 9 E? DI "I*
%a* mmm ■ ■
■. ;
hi?rictpcm cidct wnuTrarp
ntlilallipiiiK / w i«» i JBlvlil lixllvic
DEBENTORESTOCK
7% .. 4 years and over
6% . . . 12 months’ notice
5%. . . 6 months’ notice
4%
3 months’ notice
Interest is paid in Equal Quarterly Instalments, Free of Exchange, on the
last days of June, September, December and March.
TRUSTEES
FOR THE DEBENTURE HOLDERS:
THE PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LTD.)
DIRECTORS
lAN M. JACOBY (Chairman & Managing Director) L. W. COPPLESON
G. T. HARTIGAN R. E. ASH C. S. GITTOES
This_ is not a Prospectus. A copy of the Prospectus covering this issue of
Kegistered Debentures has been lodged with the Registrar of Companies, Sydney.
Application must he made on the Forms enclosed in
t;
CUSTOM CREDIT
RD43.662
TOO New South Head Rd. f Edgecliff, Sydney. Sec. General: KEITH LOVE. Teh: 32-0111
WILD CAT BREVITIES
• Kauri Timber Co. Ltd is still suffer-
ing losses and directors do not expect
to get out of this particular wood until
the beginning of the next financial year.
No interim dividend can be paid for the
half-year to February 28
• Cargo Distributors Ltd is the new
company formed to accomplish the equal
merger of Green-McCandlish Ltd and
Rudders Ltd. Paid capital after one-for-
jne share exchanges will be £449,112,
in ss. units.
* Melbourne manufacturing grocer and
miller Robert Harper and Co. Ltd
announces a further “tentative” offer
for its ordinary capital. Earlier negotia-
tions collapsed last August,
• Taubmans Industries Ltd, paintmaker,
lifted both sales and profits in the first
half of its 1961-62 year. Interim
dividend at 5 p.c. remains in line with
the previous year’s full 10 p.c., paid as
interim 4i, final si.
• Chemical maker Olims Consolidated
Ltd has bought the Winters Engineering
group, Sydney, by issuing 160,000 5/-
shares at a substantial premium.
• A £25,000 debenture issue by
Beneficial Finance Corporation Ltd has
been oversubscribed in both short and
long term sections. It opened on May 14.
• The two-months’ old Essendon (Vic.)
centre of Metropolitan Ten Pin Bowling
Ltd is operating 35 p.c. above prospectus
estimates and has earned £8334 profit.
• Clarks Shoes Australia Ltd intends
to seek Stock Exchange listing after a
placement of about 260,000 ss. shares at
6s. 7d. arranged through Cutten and
Harvey, Adelaide. The parent Clarks
Overseas Shoes Ltd, probably the largest
U.K. shoe manufacturer, will keep its 51
p.c. controlling interest.
• Sydney leathermaker J. Bayley and
Sons Ltd proposes a l-for-8 par issue
of 5/- shares to shareholders at July 2.
This involves 252,360 shares and a
further 128,756 shares will be placed
at a 7/- premium. Funds go to finance
general expansion and to construct hide
and processing stores at Brisbane, Fre-
mantle and Casino.
• Mercantile Credits Ltd has placed
400,000 ss. preference shares with the
same institution that holds the existing
£400,000 of preference capital, taken up
in 1960. The latest issue still carries a 7
p.c. dividend.
• Cousins Transport Ltd is placing
380,000 5/- shares to qualify for Stock
Exchange listing. Net tangible assets
backing is 4s. lid. a share and directors
foreshadow an 8 p.c. dividend.
• Health food wholesaler and retailer
Associated Foods Ltd will seek Stock
Exchange listing after placement of
200,000 5/- shares through Sydney
broker A. B. S. White and Co. Post-issue
asset backing is 4s. Oid. a share and
first interim dividend in March, 1963,
should be at an 8 p.c. annual rate.
• Evans Deakin Industries Ltd, Bris-
bane engineer and shipbuilder, is the
bidder for the ordinary capital of Thirl-
well McKenzie Ltd, Port Kembla con-
structional engineer, in an offer worth
about £690,000 for the £746,000 of
capital involved.
• Melbourne builder A. V. Jennings
Industries (Aust.) Ltd sees an upturn in
home building and expects more marked
improvement during 1961-62.


FINANCE CORPORATION
of AUSTRALIA LIMITED
OFFERS A SPECIALISED FINANCE SERVICE
We have finance available for : —
LENDING
▼
Developmental Projects
▼
Capital Equipment
▼
Commercial and Industrial Properties
T
Business Expansion
DISCOUNTING AND PURCHASE
Mortgages
T
Contracts of Sale
▼
Leases
v
Hire Purchase Contracts
FINANCE CORPORATION OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
ADELAIDE
F.CA. Building,
IS Franklin Street
Telephone SI 3781
MELBOURNE
Union House,
SI Queen Street,
Telephone 61 3051
SYDNEY
Anchor House,
Cnr. George and
Bridge Streets,
Telephone 27 7003
BRISBANE
Mercantile House,
262 Adelaide St.,
Telephone 31 2861
PERTH
M.L.C. Building,
171-177 St. George’s Tee,
Telephone 21 6892
GF2
ONE TO BUY
11/'hen winter winds begin to blow,
there must be some warm beams for
investors. Well, Vulcan Industries Ltd
make the Vulcan Conray roomheaters
which are reputed to have about 50 p.c.
of the market for that kind of appliance.
This, is a company new to the public
lists. The business began in 1941, but it
did not achieve public status until May
1961. A public issue of 529,512 ss.
ordinary shares at par raised paid capi-
tal to £500,000.
Adjusted net profits after providing
for income tax at current rates applicable
to public companies increased strongly
from £24,984 in 1958 to £45,541 (1959),
£87,979 (1960), and reached £111,697
in 1961. The 1961 profit represented an
earning rate of 22.3 p.c. on the new
capital of £500,000, making no allow-
ance for any additional earnings that
might accrue from the introduction of
funds from the new issue.
Directors forecast a 10 p.c. dividend,
and a maiden interim of 5 p.c. was duly
paid this month, when profits for the
six months to December were described
as satisfactory. Despite unfavorable
economic conditions, profits and sales
were over budget. Total sales were below
the exceptional level of the correspond-
ing period in 1960, which substantially
exceeded all other similar periods in
Vulcan’s history. But the second quarter
was on a par with that of the record
year.
Vulcan designed the Conray room-
heater, which is manufactured in free-
hold premises at Burwood, Victoria.
Other products are radiators and cooking
appliances. The group’s main _ ducts
are made under licence in New Zealand,
and directors are negotiating for the
licensed manufacture of Vulcan products
in the United Kingdom. In the first
six months of this year substantial quan-
tities of Conray roomheaters were ex-
ported to England.
Opening sales and orders in hand for
the January-June 1962 period were
higher than in past years, and a satis-
factory year seems assured. An earning
rate of at least 23 p.c. would not sur-
prise, and at 9s. lid. to yield 5 p.c. the
shares should be worth tucking away
for the future. Prices have moved
quickly beyond the placement level and
likely prospects could push them still
higher.
wish to remain anonymous as we are in-
troduced to the subject matter from the
perspective of the author’s own experi-
ences. Would it be too much to ask for
some reference to be made in a later
issue of The Bulletin to the exporter
who apparently took so much interest
in the markets described that he re-
mained to double check the impact of
the Chandpara trade mission?
We could learn much from those v,ho
are prepared to speak the languages of
the country into which a trade mission
goes, and who give a great deal more
of their time to those with whom they
wish to do business.
JAMES HODGKINS
LETTER TO THE FINANCE EDITOR
Middle East
Sir,
It seems a pity that we are not allowed
to know who wrote this most informative
article. Apparently the writer does not
Unfortunately the name of our contri-
butor who wrote “In the Wake of the
Chandpara” was dropped due to a tech-
nical error. He is Mr G. B. Courtney,
who had recently covered the route fol-
lowed earlier by the Australian Trade
Mission to the Middle East on board the
SS Chandpara. Our oversight is re-
gretted.
FINANCE EDITOR


LEADING
SHARE
PRICES
-p,
Last
Div,
Div.
Earn.
Earn
Company
Par
Sale,
11/6/62
18/6/62 Rate
Yield
Rate
Yield
Value
1961
p.c.
p.c.
p.c.
p.c.
Amalgamated Chemicals .
5/
14/3
17/11
17/10
12>/ 2
3.5
21.4
6.0
A. W.A
5/
20/4>/ 2
20/4
20/6
14
3 4
22
5.4
Ampol . .. .
5/
11/4
11/10
11/11
14
5.9
19
7.9
A.R.C.
10/
46/3
48/6
47/
15
3.2
29.7
6.4
Associated Pulp
Aust. Chemicals
20/
29/3
-30/11
30/
—
13.6
9.1
. . . • •
10/
30/4 >/ 2
25/9
2 0/ 6t
12 y 2
4.9
21.5
8.4
A.O.I. . . . . #
• • •
20/
72/6
68/6
67/6
8-1/3
2.5
19.3
7.4
Aust. Guarantee
5/
14/
12/6
12/4y 2 t 15
6.0
20.3
8.1
Aust. Gypsum ..
5,
14/3
15/9
15/7y 2
i0
3.2
15.9
4.8
A.P M.
20/
25/3
29/
29/9
8
5.4
10
6.8
Bank N.S.W. ..
. • 0
£20
£34
£4iy 2
£4iy 4
9
4.4
12.2
5.9
Bitumen and Oil .
5/
24/
23/10
23/6
17*/ 2
3.7
32.4
7.6
Blue Metal Ind.
5/
22/7‘/ 2
23/4
2?/9
15
3.3
27.6
6.2
Bradford Cotton
..
5/
7/6
7/1
7/
10
7.1
11.2
7.9
British Tobacco
20/
25/
22/6
23/3
9
7.7
9.7
8.3
• • •»
20/
69/
59/9
58/C
614
2.1
15.5
6.5
Burns Philp.
20/
91/
£ 5/3/6
£6/2/y 2
10
1.8
12.4
2.2
C.S.R. ,, t
£20
£ 59’/ 2
£53
£53V 4
9
3.4
12.4
4.6
C.A.G.A
C.I.G
..
5/
11/3
11/3
11/2
10
4.4
12.3
5.5
• e , ,
20/
£5
97/3f
97/Gf
11
2.3
25.2
5.2
Commercial Union
• • • .
5/
19/3
20 6xK
20/3
6'/ 2
1.6
18.4
4.5
Concrete Ind. .
Consolidated Zinc
5/
25/
15/1 y 2
62/6
14/8
62 3f
14, 5
60/ f
10
15
3.4
6.2
16.6
11.6
5.7
4.8
Custom Credit
Cyclone
Dalgety-N.Z. Loan
•• ■ ■
5/
5/
7/6
13/
7/6
12/
7/4 y 2
ll/7>/ 2
10
f 15
6.7
6.5
11.8
19.5
8.3
8.5
5/
25/
26/
22/
41/t
21/6
40/
10
8
4.7
5.0
17.7
13.9
8.3
8.3
David Jones
. . • .
5/
18/9
18/3
17/7
i2y 2
3.6
28.7
6.9
Drug Houses' . .
Dunlop Rubber
.. ..
20/
20/
69/
35/
68/
40/
67/
39/6
u y 4
10
3.4
5.1
17.7
16
5.3
8.2
Elder Smith ..
Electronic "B”
Email
E.Z. ind.
Felt and Textiles- .
O. J Coles .. ,,
Goldsbrough
H. C Sleigh ..
Henry Jones .
H. G Palmer ..
Howard Smith
12/
23/9
24/10y 2
25/6
10
4.7
12.6
5.9
10/
13/3
15/9
16/3
12 y 2
7.7
—
—
5/
7/6
8/
8/
10
6.3
11
11.0
10/
5,
12/11
6/11
12/8
7/8
12/2
7/5
10
10
8.2
6.7
12.4
13.9
10.3
9.3
• • • •
5/
20/
13/6
28/6
12/10
31/
12/9
31/Cf
it
8
4.3
5.2
14.8
12.6
5.8
8.0
5/
20/
5/
20/
11/
80/
15/6
54/
12/4
86/6
17/
47/7V' 2
12/10
85'3
17/
46/
12>/a
10
12V 2
10
4.8
2.3
3.7
4.3
13.4
28.6
13.5
13.6
5.2
6.6
9.9
4.3
i.A.d
I.
J. Gadsden
Kanrlos Cement
Keivinator
Lend Lease .. ,,
L J. Hooker
Mercantile Credits
McPhersons
Minster
Mouided Products
Mt. Isa Mines
Mutual Acceptance '
Myer
National Consolidate
Olympic Industries
Peters (Vic.) ..
Petrochemical
R M Concrete
Reid Murray ..
Repco
• •
20/
70/6
74/3
76/
14
3.5
24.6
8.6
5/
13/4
13/2f
13/7
16-2/3
6.1
20.6
7.5
20/
38/
40/6
41/3
7
3.4
9.7
4.1
10/
5/
5/
15/3
18/3
18/6
21/9
19/9
17/9
22/4 y 2 f
19/9
8
12V 2
15
4.5
2.8
3.8
10.4
13.5
28.6
5.8
3.0
7.3
.. ..
5/
5/
5/
20/
20/
7/
8/8
47/
19/
5/2
8/9
41/
17 9
5/1
8/10
41/6
10
10
8-1/3
2.7
5.6
4.0
21.4
1.1*
16.6
12.4
5.9
1.0
9.3
5.4
.. ..
13/
5/
5/
5/
62/
13/2
71/6
8/10
77/9
13/9
71/
10/2
29/7
12/7‘/ 2
70/
9/ioy 2 t
16-2/3
14
25
15
2.8
5.5
1.8
7.6
28.3
7.8
62.8
22.3
4.9
3.1
4.5
11.2
d
5/
5/
5/
2/
20/
5/
5/
29/
27/
7/7
8/6
26/
17/4i/ 2
5/3
31/
26 6
9/5
7/8
28/6
17/4
4/
29/7
26/6
9/4
7/3
27/9
17/3
3/11
16-2/3
20
9
15
6
12V 2
2.8
3.7
4.7
4.1
4.3
3.6
28.3
35.3
16.2
18.9
5.9
22.9
9.4
4.9
6.6
8.6
5.3
4.2
6.5
11.8
5/
12/5
14/1
13/9
10
3.6
17.8
6.5
5/,
15/9
20/6
18/
10
2.8
71.7
19.9
20/
87/6
73 '3
74 6
17>/ 2
4.6
47.7
12.7
5 '
13/
10/7
10/7
12 y 2
5.9
14.4
5.0
Union Carbide
20/
60/
66/9
68/3
13>/2
4.0
15.9
4.4
20/
80/
68/
65/
10
3.0
15.9
4.8
5/
13/8
13/10
13/3
12>/ 2
4.7
19.7
7.3
5/
15/4
16/1
15/10
12
3.8
15.4
4.9
W. R. Carpenter
* Estimated on last half-
5/
5/
year’s profit.
11/10
30/
11/9
33/6
11/8
74/3
10
15
4.2
2.1
14.2
35.1
6.7
5.3
XR Ex Rights
f Mid-price.
SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE INDICES
Banks,
Other
Base
All
December 22. 1961 .
June 11, 1962 . . .
June 12, 1962 .. .
June 13, 1962 .. .
June 14, 1962 ..
June 15, 1962 .. ..
June 18, 1962 .. ..
etc.
Finance
Pastoral
Retailers
Metals
Ords. 1
Industrials
137.37
164.39
164.44
164.26
163.21
162.24
162.11
541.02
560.89
559.71
564.24
560.23
553.23
551.74
182.31
178.52
179.73
179.44
179.56
179.02
178.93
389.15
374.83
371.98
373.73
371.41
368.88
367.85
604.15
572.36
569.73
569.62
572.01
563.54
562.58
299.07
297.95
298.59
299.08
297.27
295.35
293.69
318.74
312.45
313.72
314.15
312.08
310.10
308.08
‘■Peak
348.46 September 16, 1960
MELBOURNE STOCK EXCHANGE
AVERAGE YIELD ON 100
ORDINARY
SHARES-
SO Tor
r — 50 Other Stocks— Random ■
oamnie
December 22, 1961
June 11 1962
June 12, 1962 ..
June 13, 1962 ..
June 14, 1962
June 15, 1962 ..
June 18, 1962 ..
..
•• ::
Div. Yield Earn. Yield
4.26 6.13
4.40 6.28
4.32 6.28
4.31 6.25
4.32 6.27
4.33 6.31
4.37 6.33
Div. Yield Earn. Yield
5.30 7.46
5.21 1.90
5.21 1.98
5.20 2.12
5.29 2.01
5.21 1.90
5.23 1.99
SHAREMARKET SUMMARY
A wide measure of none-too-sober
scepticism has seized the share-
markets. Last week did not see earlier
doubts and retrogressions alleviated in
any genuine manner. What had pre-
viously passed for an almost statuesque
calm took some fright and this gathered
momentum during the week’s trading.
With so much attention being paid
to the oscillations of overseas exchanges,
particularly Wall Street, investors might
be charged with neglecting a host of
fine local opportunities. But the mis-
givings remain very real, especially on
the pace and extent of our own
economic recovery. Certainly no one
expects inflation, either inside or out-
side ’Change, so prices get well marked
back accordingly.
As we observed a few weeks ago,
when hesitations were first visible, the
conditions for continuous growth do
not look as easy as of yore. This lesson
is being taught in many countries at
present. Though it assuredly does not
spell disaster, caution and restraint
seem justified.
Not even Mr Staniforth Ricketson
can goad the markets into activity. At
National Reliance’s annual meeting, he
more or less repeated the gospel in
clear terms.
“In these circumstances, the present
time offers exceptional opportunities for
the adoption of a selective and pro-
gressive policy of investment in sound
equity stocks, which promise satisfactory
income returns together with capital
gains in the years which lie immediately
ahead,” Mr Ricketson asserted. He read
the principal indicators with discretion
and would not be tempted by American
parallels.
It does not seem that investors will
suddenly heed this programme. They
are receiving much the same pattern
from a heap of brokers’ circulars,
gilding all the old solid favorites. The
time of pressure and advance is not yet.
If all this exhortation, plus the en-
couraging economic behaviour, can pre-
vail until and after the Budget, some-
thing may come of it. Pressures simply
don’t exist just now. Last week, as well,
witnessed a first significant narrowing of
ranges.
It is odd to see stocks like Lend Lease,
Blue Metal Industries, Concrete In-
dustries and John Lysaght, which could
easily reflect better trends, suffer with
the rest. Takeover stocks—Life Savers,
James Stedman and Smalls feel the
rap, too.
It remains to be said that oils have
well and truly slowed. Watching for
Moonie dictates the speculative line.


DIVIDEND
DECLARATIONS
WEEK ENDED JUNE
18, 1962
Rate for
Books
Company Div. p.C. Year
Last Year
Close
Payable
Aust. Mont-de-Piete Loan and Deposit
Co. Ltd., int 614
—
614, 8%
3/7/62
12/7/62
Brolite Industries Ltd, int. ord .. 714
—
7V2, 714
28/6/62
16/7/62
do., int. pref 3%
—
3%, 3%
28/6/62
16/7/62
Bunny Industries Ltd, int 3%
—
3%, 3%
27/6/62
31/7/62
Carlyle Holdings Ltd, int. pref. ... 3
—
3, 3
22/6/62
29/6/62
Cottees Ltd, final 10
15
5, 10
—
2/7/62
Drug Houses of Aust. Ltd, int. pref .. 3
—
3, 3
26/6/62
30/6/62
E. T. Brown Ltd, final pref 3
6
3, 3
18/6/62
30/6/62
Eureka Terra Cotta and Tile Co. Ltd,
year 5
5
5
25/6/62
1/7/62
Fred Clark (Holdings) Ltd, final pref. 3
6
3, 3
27/6/62
30/6/62
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co. Ltd,
special int. qtr 2
—
—
—
1/10/62
Howard Smith Ltd, int. qtr. pref. .. 114
—
114, 114, 114,
114
2/7/62
—
Imperial Chemicals Ind. of Aust. and
N.Z. Ltd, int 3
—
3, 4
6/8/62
1/9/62
Malleys Ltd, final pref 414
9
414, 41/2
28/6,62
30/6/62
McEwans Ltd, final pref 314
7
314, 314
27/6/62
9/7/62
Motor Spares Ltd, final 1st pref .. 314
7
314, 314
22/6/62
30/6/62
do., final 2nd pref 3
6
3, 3
22/6/62
30/6/62
Neon Signs (A’sia) Ltd, final pref. .. 314
—
5, —
22/6/62
1/7 62
Nock and Kirbv Ltd, int 314
—
5. —
27/6-62
6/7/62
Sheldons Holdings Ltd, int 4
—
4, 4
20/6/62
28/6/62
Specialty Press Ltd, final pref 214
5
214, 214
24/6/62
29/6/62
Thomas Brown and Sons Ltd. final
(in stg.) 1/
1/7
/7, 1/
27/6/62
24/7/62
Turner Industries Ltd, final pref. .. 3
6
3, 3
22/6/62
30/6/62
Wattyl Ltd, vear 1214
1214
10
—
West'-ott, Hazell and Co. Ltd, final
pref 314
7
314, 314
29/6/62
6/7. 62
COMPANY RESULTS
Ordinary Shares
lax Deprecia. Earning
Ord.
Par Last Sale
DlV.
£
£
tion Rate
Div.
Value Price
Yield
£ p.c.
p.c.
p c.
108,000
104,107 36.3
15
5/ 32/
2.3
33,100
n/a n/a
10
not nsteci
Tooth & Co 31/3/62 1,504,829
n/a 936,849 14.7
1314
2U/ b 0/6
s.u
A. L. NEVITT. DRAPER & CO
A. L. NEVITT. A. C. DRAPER.
N. W C. DRAPER
(Members oj Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH.
2 Denham Street, Phone 6089
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
Delfin House,
16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines)
Prudential Building,
150 Queen St., Melbourne
67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables:
“Rosdale”. Sydney. Melbourne
or Wollongong.
John N. Robertson, Thompson
and Co.
Members of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
423 Little Collins Street
Melbourne, C.l.
Telephones: 67-6154, 67-6155
Telegrams and Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Sixth Floor,
56 Hunter Street, Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Telephone: BW 5721.
Telegrams and Cables:
“LAGRAM,” Sydney.
CONSTABLE & COMPANY
BW 0781
Member of the
SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE
25 O’Connell Street,
SYDNEY
The Mall, The Corso, Manly
Telephone: 97-5867
CC.S.
STOCKS, HOLDINGS DEBS.
TT'ollowing Eric Anderson (Consoli-
dated), Sydney investment company
Stocks and Holdings Ltd comes to hand
with a debenture prospectus fully in
line with the new Companies Act effective
on July 1. The issue is underwritten to
£750,000 by sharebroker J. and J. North,
though oversubscriptions to a further
£750,000 may be accepted.
Proceeds will firstly redeem secured
loans to the amount of £248,150, in
addition to discharges made since Decem-
ber 31 and totalling £92,300. As well,
directors require funds for coming pro-
jects. These include rebuilding the
Imperial Arcade (Sydney), construction
and operation of shopping centres,
housing projects, roads and motels.
The debentures are available in two
currencies—s years at 8 per cent, and 10
years at 8+ per cent. Asset backing, for
£750,000, stands at about £350 for each
£lOO, with current profits running at 3.3
times the interest liability. It is interesting
to compare the interest rates with Indus-
trial Acceptance’s recent cardinal issue,
where long-term rates were lifted to 1%
per cent, for 10 years and from 6? to 7
per cent, for five years.
Directors remain very confident of the
future of their fully integrated develop-
ment organisation. They expect to start
demolition of the old Imperial Arcade
next year, replacing it with a 27-storey
block to be built in two stages and finished
in 1965.
JAMES STEDMAN BIDS
/Confectionery maker James Steelman
Ltd has raced to the chocolate take-
over field with a fine display of strength.
When this section went to press, terms of
the company’s bid for Smalls Chocolates
Holdings were yet to be announced. A
battle with the prior bidder, Life Savers
(A’sia) is certain to be joined.
Anyhow, Stedman loses no time in
revealing its prosperity. Dividend rate
will go up from 10 to 121 p.c. by a final
at 71 p.c. The move did not take long
after the 1959 capital reorganisation—
dividend remained at 10 p.c. for only two
years on doubled capital after a previous
15 p.c. level. As a further bonbon,
directors also propose to split the 20s.
shares into ss. units.
The two benefits are to be put to
shareholders at next September's annual
meeting. In the meantime, they must be
taken to picture an advance on the 1960-
61 profits—£2ll,Bs2, indicating earning
rate at 19.02 p.c. Expansion makes itself
felt among the chocolate makers and
more forays may be awaited.
Smalls’ directors behaved with exemp-
lary correctness in advising the Stock
Exchange of this second approach.
They are, in a common style of recent
takeovers, caught out, for the Life
Savers’ offer had already gained recom-
mendation. Details of the new bid will,
of course, be released after it has been
examined.


STOCK OPTIONS
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
Suite 1, Sixth Floor, Temple Court
422 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Phone 67-8011
BRANCH OFFICES
Sydney: 383 George Street, 29-7865.
Adelaide: 61 Gawler Place, 7-8407.
Brisbane: 334 Queen Street, 31-1621.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
All Offices: “Options”
Write or Phone for Free Brochure
and Current Price Schedule.
FOR CALL OPTIONS
CALL STOCK OPTIONS
SPECULATOR'S DIARY
Monday, June 18
Tn a market like this, what can a
grasping speculator do but hope, and
sell short. It was while 1 was reading
about preparations last week for that
champagne wedding in Alice Springs
(a nice match of Australian talent and
American capital, if I may say so) that
I decided to re-read the wedding banns
between Consolidated Zinc Pty Ltd and
Rio Tinto Mining Co. of Australia.
The figures in big type were impres-
sive. The new giant, to be known as
Conzinc Riotinto of Australia (call me
CRA), will have a paid capital of more
than £lom. and assets of £6om.
Assets backing for the ss. shares after
the merger and a premium issue to the
public and Rio Tinto shareholders will
be a substantia] 17s. sd. But the profit
figures are not so gilt-edged. Combined
earning rate in 1960, when both part-
ners had a good year, was 24.5 p.c., and
in 1961, when Conzinc sulfered a set-
back but Rio Tinto had a boomer with
the help of Mary Kathleen Uranium, it
was 23.1 p.c. This is good cover for
the proposed 12 p.c. dividend, but it
struck me that Rio Tinto would be
subsidising Conzinc profits and could
do so only while the high uranium profits
continued until 1964.
As 1 previously had not thought Rio
Tinto shares worth the 21s. or so asked
(even with the huge earning rate con-
sequent upon uranium profits) the shares
now looked even more overpriced short-
term with the profits to be watered down
in Conzinc. After all, Rio Tinto faces a
Common Market-type precipice in 1964,
or late 1963, when the Mary Kathleen
contract with the British Atomic Energy
Authority runs out. In short, when Rio
Tinto said “for better for worse, for
richer for poorer” to Consolidated Zinc,
the poorer and worse bits stuck in my
mind and I decided to sell short.
Unfortunately I was nowhere near first
in the queue to sell. The price had al-
ready come down from 21s. to 19s. 6d.
before my broker sold 600 shares I did
not own. Since then the movement has
been favorable (for me), but there won’t
be a great deal in it unless further
weakening occurs, aided perhaps by the
general market tone, this week when I
will have to buy back.
While undergoing this investigation of
the mining lists, I had a look around
for any gems waiting to be picked up.
I found my old gold-mining friend,
Western Mining, languishing. My last
joust with Western Mining resulted in a
profit of £l4O when I sold last March.
Looking at the stock during the week I
realised that the price at which I then
sold, 14s. 3d., was Is. 6d. higher than
the current level although a 2s. 6d. call
had been made in the meantime. Re-
membering that Western Mining is
earning a comfortable 35 to 40 p.c. on
capital from dividends from Central
Norseman and Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie
(tax free), and that the group has the
largest Australian share (20 p.c.) in the
Alcoa aluminium colossal which is six
months closer than when I last bought,
I snapped up 600 at 12s. 9d.
During the week, in fact, Alcoa an-
nounced that the Geelong smelter would
begin production, using imported alum-
ina, next March—the second advance-
ment in production date from the origi-
nal 1964. The big Kwinana refinery
should be producing the following De-
cember. I intend purchasing all my
refined aluminium requirements from
Alcoa.
This purchase left me again consider-
ably in debt, but I decided to take my
leave hastily of Smalls Chocolates des-
pite the Commonwealth Statistician’s
report that last year was a record one
for lollipop sucking. I sold at 14s. 6d.,
losing £8 on brokerage. Smalls shares
look a cheap way into Life Savers, but
that is for patient souls. At moments
like these I need a different sort of con-
fectionery. The experience also decided
me against taking a punt on the bid for
Thirwell McKenzie, which was a pity—
I would have made a profit.
During the week I also decided to
sell my six-months-old holding in Harris
Holdings, the Campbelltown hardware
merchant. While the company retains
the promise shown by high earnings
from an expanding business, it has been
oh so slow moving in the market. The
8s. I got for my holding of 1000 meant
a profit of £28.
The week’s transactions were:
BOUGHT
600 Western Mining at 12/9 £391
SOLD
1000 Harris Holdings at 8/- £390
600 Smalls Chocolates at 14/6 £427
600 Rio Tinto* at 19/6 £575
* sold short
The profit for the week, £20, put
me on hard rations after last week’s
£94, but I now have £209 in the bank,
the goodwill of my broker, and the
following shares
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date per rent
shares company bought share price
400 O’Donnell
Griffin 28/8/61 11/8 17/3
1,600 United Motels 20/11/61 3/9 4/3
300 Beau Monde 8/12/61 26/6 30/-
400 W. J. Manufac-
turing 24/1/62 11/9 13/-
100 Auto and Gen-
eral Finance 8/2/62 19/9 22/6
500 Mauri Bros 16/2/62 22/9 23/2
400 Anderson Meat 2/3/62 12/- 13/-
100 Philip Morris 16/3/62 26/- 25/-
800 Goodwins 21/3/62 5/9 6/3
500 Peter Lloyd 21/3/62 5/6 5/8
500 Ready Mixed 6/4/62 17/9 17/4
25 MLC 27/4/62 £19/10/- £23y 2
200 Maileys 3/5/62 20/3 22/-
500 Merica 10/5/62 7/- 7/6
500 Swan Brewery 17/5/62 19/6 18/10
25 Choiseui 24/5/62 £11 £10%
1,000 Hanimex 23/5/62 4/11 5/6
300 National Consol. 30/5/62 26/1 26/6
800 Discount Facilit. 30/5/62 5/9 5/10
600 Western Mining 13/6/62 12/9 12/6
MORE BREVITIES
• Brisbane engineer Keith Morris Con-
struction Ltd will erect a luxury home
unit block at Coolangatta. Financial
arrangements are to be channelled
through a newly formed subsidiary,
Morris Court Pty Ltd.
• Hallett Brick Industries Ltd has been
formed to acquire J. Hallett and Son
Ltd, Adelaide brick, tile and walling
block maker. Brick industries Ltd, of
Melbourne, holds a 40 p.c. interest in
the new formation and its shareholders
will be offered a further 20 p.c.
• Rutile and Zircon Mines (Newcastle)
Ltd plans a first 10,000 tons rutile ship-
ment to E. I. du Pont de Nemours in
October. The company is jointly owned
by Peko-Wallsend Investments and Coffs
Harbor Rutile.
• Frederick Rose Ltd, in which the
Tasman Dry Cleaning group now
reposes, may pay a small dividend for
1961-62.
• Shipping Newspapers Ltd will raise
funds for a new North Sydney factory
by a l-for-4 issue of 5/- shares at a 5/-
premium. The group is also to acquire
printer Marchant and Co. Pty Ltd with
a share issue, as yet undecided, and
expects to keep the 17i p.c. dividend on
higher capital.


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
IRRIGATION
McKinney-forgotten genius
By CLIFF CALDER
HPhe romance of Marion McMordie,
which caused a wilderness to be
transformed into the richest 600 square
miles of arable land in Australia, is de-
serving of a place in history. Yet his-
tory has not been kind to Marion, the
daughter of an officer in the British
Army in India. Her marriage set in
train a crusade that eventually gave New 7
South Wales an irrigation area at which
the w 7 orld has w'ondered.
This year, on July 13, we will com-
memorate the turning on of the first
water supply to the Murrumbidgee Irri-
gation Areas where Samuel McCaughey
once ran a sheep to seven acres and now
the areas turn out about £8 million worth
of produce a year.
Already, at the Leeton Irrigana Festi-
val in March, the ceremony has been re-
enacted. But in marking the great event
of half a century ago there was no
mention of Hugh McKinney, the young
Irishman Marion McMordie married in
Bombay and brought to Australia on
their honeymoon. McKinney, as much as
any other person. w'as responsible for
the creation of the great achievement
that is now' the Murrumbidgee Irrigation
Area.
Marion’s brother, David, was an
engineer in the NSW Public Service and
when she wrote to him from Bombay
in 1877 with news of her approaching
marriage to a 30 - years - old engineer
serving w'ith her father in the Indian
Army, David invited her and her hus-
band to spend their honeymoon in Aust-
ralia.
A man of substance in the virile young
nation that was wringing amazing wealth
from the grazing lands of a half-tamed
continent. David McMordie saw that
the young couple travelled widely be-
yond Sydney, especially amongst his
squatter friends in the Riverina. And
when Hugh McKinney took his bride
back to India to his work of construct-
ing irrigation canals on the arid plains
of the Upper Ganges, he took with him
another love the Riverina of New
South Wales.
By 1879 the fascination of the Riv-
erina had conquered McKinney, toiling
as a stranger in a strange land to bring
the benefits of irrigation to it, while
his own people in another strange land
battled drought for want of the experi-
ence. He resigned his position with the
Indian service and brought his wife and
baby daughter to Australia to settle.
Born at Carnmoney, near Belfast in
Ireland, McKinney had been a brilliant
student at Queen's University and had
graduated in engineering with honors.
His experience in water supply engineer-
ing soon brought him a position as resi-
dent engineer in Sydney on the first con-
tract for canal work in connection with
the city’s water supply. His destiny lay
close at hand.
The year of his first visit to Australia
had been a year of drought a two-year
drought gripped the Riverina in 1882
and also withered northern and western
Victoria. There was public outcry at
the uncontrolled drought and plenty that
was the lot of both New South Wales
and Victoria. Settlers who had taken up
sheep runs after the goldrush booms of
the 1850’s had come to know the nature
of the land they had settled a sea of
grass taken Up one year became a desert
a year or two later and the sheep that
should have sustained the settlers died in
hundreds of thousands.
Through the droughts of 1868, 1877
and 1882/83 the other genius from
northern Ireland, Samuel McCaughey,
had laughed at the lack of rain on his
well-irrigated properties of Coree and
Coonong. The example he led had driven
home the lesson —dhe answer to droughts
was the conservation of water for irri-
gation.
The demand for Government measures
to mitigate droughts led to the simul-
taneous setting up in New South Wales
and Victoria of Royal Commissions to
inquire into measures that would alleviate
the problems.
Hugh McKinney found himself ap-
pointed engineer to advise the Royal
Commission set up in NSW under the
presidency of Sir William Lyne. Also on
the commission was engineer David Mc-
Mordie.
Strange tales of drought reaching back
into the earliest history of the colony
were told at the Roykl Commission.
Typical was the story of William Brod-
ribb, owner of Wanganella station in the
grim drought of 1857. The neighboring
station of Coree had even then been de-
veloped for water conservation by a sys-
tem of dams across the little creeks on
the property that ran only once a year.
Wanganella, too, had its dams. In the
scorching summer of 1858 a party of
angry graziers rode on to Coree one
evening and wrecked 23 dams in an
effort to make lifesaving water flow
downstream to their properties. They
crossed to Wanganella station and held
Brodribb at bay while they wrecked his
largest dam.
Brodribb prosecuted the men in Goul-
burn Court but lost his case the jury
said “not guilty”. Public opinion was
against the man who hoarded water to
the loss of the men farther downstream.
The Royal Commission recommended
that legislation be passed vesting in the
Crown the ownership of all flowing
waters in the State to prevent the un-
controlled damming of creeks.
In his final engineer's report to the
Royal Commission in 1886 McKinney
showed that he had gone very thoroughly
into the possibilities of irrigating the
Riverina. He had had a line of levels
taken along the course now followed by
the main irrigation canal of the M.I.A.
to where it ends in Barren Box Swamp.
He acknowledged the previous surveys
made by Government surveyors C. W.
Bolton and J. Bayliss (from the latter
is named the main street of Wagga).
McKinney also proposed a canal from
Pomingarlana, on the Murrumbidgee
near Wagga, through the Brookong Plain
to Lake Urana. He also proposed a canal
to take off from the Murrumbidgee
downstream from Narrandera, run
parallel to the river for 15 miles and
then run branches to Billabong Creek
and later to link the system with tribu-
taries of the Murray near Jerilderie. This
scheme is still regarded as practicable.
The “wilful, lavish land” of Dorothea
McKellar reverted to lavishness in the
six years following the publication of
the final report of the Lyne Commission
in 1886 and it found its way into the
inevitable pigeonhole. Urgent hands,
however, reached for it in 1892 when
the rains failed and all through 1893
drought gripped the land while the legis-
lators pored over the Lyne report and
prayed for rain and sheep died in
legions. They put it back into the pigeon-
hole when the rains came in 1894.
Their relief was premature, however,
for drought was back on the doorsteps
in 1895. A hurried invitation was sent
off to the Inspector General of Irriga-
tion in India, Colonel Home. He took
McKinney in company, had a quick look
over New South Wales and pocketed his


Pstab’ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
i hipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
Sr-1
mm
1
JACKS. ON
.O'SULLIVAN Jj
t PTYLTD C
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Papet Merchants,
Matmfaciuring Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS is OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC printers
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS •: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Always ask for
AIN S LIE’S
SCOTCH WHISKY
AGENTS:
Halloran Manton Pty. Ltd.,
Pitt, Son & Badgery Ltd.,
All the
family
will love
I
Everybody's
£lOOO fee. “No high mountains, no re-
serves of snow no irrigation.” He
went back to India.
That left Hugh McKinney with a
handful of hopes and all the aces
against him. Whenever he mentioned
irrigation thereafter he received a clout
on the noggin with Colonel Home’s re-
port.
“McKinney would have us make
bricks without straw,” declared the poli-
ticians of his day. He suffered it all
until 1901 and then went into private
practice in Sydney, leaving the field
of chief engineer in the water supply
department of the NSW Public Service
to his brilliant protege, L. A.' B. Wade.
Therein, he was a little premature, for
a withering, scorching drought came
along in 1901 just as McKinney was
presenting a paper to the Royal Society
of New South Wales on the possibilities
of irrigation from the Murrumbidgee.
The Murrumbidgee flow fell to 200
cusecs, the Murray stopped running at
Mildura and there was nearly an armed
revolt on the Murray Irrigation Areas at
Mildura.
The 1902 drought brought the dice of
decision to the pot of action. It rolled
backwards and forwards across the con-
ference tables until a major conference
on water conservation and irrigation was
called by the Minister for Public Works
C. A. Lee, (for whom Leeton is named),
From this conference came a recom-
mendation for the adoption of the plan
to L. A. B. Wade, chief engineer for
water and sewerage in the Public Works
Department, for irrigation from the
Murrumbidgee.
The voice was the voice of Wade but
the mind was the mind of McKinney
it had all been put down in the records
years earlier.
By 1906 the surveyors were clambering
down the rugged sides of Barren Jack
mountain surveying the site of Burrin-
juck dam. McKinney was forgotten and
the water was turned on at Yanco in
1912. He did not even receive an invi-
tation to the ceremony though he was
there to see the brown water surge along
the canal to irrigate the first farm.
Hugh McKinney died at Turramurra
at the age of 83 in March 1930. To en-
sure his obscurity m history fate decreed
that his only son should die without issue
in 1927.
EXPORT MARKETS
MIDDLE EAST WORTH £75m. A YEAR
TV/Tr Warren D. McDonald, chairman
of the Commonwealth Banking Cor-
poration, who was leader of the recent
Australian trade mission to the Middle
East, presented an encouraging picture of
Australia's export possibilities when he
addressed the Stock and Station Agents’
Association of NSW last week.
“Wherever we moved—and we covered
the Middle East from Aden to Malta —
we were not only given a tremendous
amount of valuable information about
markets for food and other goods, but
we were asked for advice and help on
problems like water drilling, afforestation,
stock breeding, crop improvements and
soil erosion,” he said. “If help of this
kind could be provided, our trade would
be increased tremendously.”
It might not be generally realised how
much our exports to particular markets
depended on regular shipping services,
Mr McDonald said. Aden, Egypt and
Greece posed no real problems as direct
general and refrigerated cargo services
operated there but for most other areas
of the Middle East shipping was the key
to any substantial increase in our export
trade.
“If our traders go about developing
exports the right way it could mean an
increase in our share of Middle East trade
from about £lBm. a year today to perhaps
£7sm. Mr McDonald added.
WEEKLY AVERAGE WOOL PRICES
Source: Australian Wool Bureau
, Australian Averages N
Quality Opening Closing Centres Selling
Classification Week Week Week Week Week Week Ended
(Bradford Ended Ended 1961-62 1960/61 Ended 15/6/62
Standard) 15/6/62 Change 1/6/62 7/7/61 30/6/61 16/6/61 Adel. A’bry.
d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d.
COMBING—
70’s Good .. 132* par 132 122* 125* 126*
Average .. 127* par 127 117 120 121
64's Good .. 124 par 124 114* 117* 118*
Average .. 118 par 118 109 112 113 119
60’s Good .. 109 par 109 104 108* 110* 108
Average .. 103 par 103 101 104 106 104 103
58’s Good .. 97 par 97 97 101* 102 98
Average .. 94 par 94 95 98 99 95 93
56’s Good .. 93 par 93 95* 97* 98
Average .. 91 par 91 92* 94 95 91 90
50 s Good .. 83* par 83 92* 93* 93
Average .. 80* par 80 90* 91* 91 _ _
CARDING—
Merino .. 49 +2 47 49 48 50 51 46
Comeback .. 4a +2 43 49 48 50 49 44
Fine Xbred .. 46* +1 45 51 . 51 52 _
Med. Xbred .. 47* +1 46 52* 52 52 - -
* Nominal. Sales Next Week: Sydney, Melbourne.


REVIEWS
MUSIC
OUR DEBT TO EUGENE GOOSSENS
By KENNETH HINCE
YI/hen Eugene Goossens came to Syd-
ney in 1946, comparatively few
Australians knew anything of him. He
arrived with the assertion that he would
give the Sydney orchestra a place in the
world’s first six. Whether or not his
boast was made good in the ten years
he spent with us, we could not have
hoped for a better appointment than his
to launch our newly permanent Aus-
tralian orchestras. Son and grandson of
conductors, he had had a career of high
distinction, and his experience in form-
ing and reforming orchestras was
second to none.
He left England at the age of about
thirty, to take over the conductorship of
George Eastman’s projected symphony
orchestra in Rochester. For eight years,
using Rochester as his base, he conducted
throughout America, with frequent excur-
sions to England and Europe.
Between 1931 and 1 he was in
charge of the Cincinnati Symphony
Orchestra, raising it from mediocrity to
a level of sophistication which is wit-
nessed by a handful of excellent record-
ings.
Even his twenty years in America were
a secondary qualification, since they
rested on the foundation of an earlier
and quite exhaustive searching of the
English musical market. Before leaving
for America he had made a name in
London as operatic conductor, lecturer
and composer.
He took English music to Germany as
conductor of the Berlin Philharmonic
Orchestra during one of the first seasons
arranged by the 1.5.C.M., gave in 1921
the first English concert performance of
Stravinsky’s Rite of Spring, and held
together the virtuoso orchestra he had
assembled for this purpose to produce a
series of six strikingly avant-garde con-
certs.
Neither these, nor the English chamber-
music concerts he organised after coming
back from Berlin, seemed likely to take
root. Goossens felt that he had tested
the London market as far as one man
could.
In his mid-fifties when he reached
Australia, he had his critical experience
behind him, and must have realised that
no turn of the wheel would release him
from active concert-giving for a life of
composition, which he still felt to be his
calling.
What he achieved over ten years with
the Sydney Symphony Orchestra remains
today the backbone of our orchestral
standards across Australia.
Goossens was not popular with the
members of his orchestra (no resident
conductor has, as far as I know, ever
remained popular with an Australian
orchestra). He was something of a mar-
tinet, and there was a degree of aloof-
ness in his bearing which raised the
hackles of quite a few of his players.
Yet, confronting the problems of setting
a standard without precedent, he
achieved what he went after. Even
today, six years after he left Sydney, the
strings of the Sydney orchestra have a
sonority and an ensemble which no Aus-
tralian orchestra can match, even
though Georges Tzipine has effected a
wonderful revolution.
The whole history of these two major
orchestras is a speaking witness to the
rightness of Goossens’ appointment. The
Melbourne orchestra, chopped around
mercilessly from one man to another,
has never begun to develop a confidence
of ensemble, and has had to rely on
occasional visitors to unlock for a
moment its superb potential.
His coolness was widely remarked.
Men of experience found that his per-
formances never fell below a handsome
level of competence, but never rose to an
exciting pitch of excellence such as
Sir Bernard Heinze, for instance, could
turn on. It was not due to lack of
enterprise or of sympathy, for Goossens’
mind ranged widely, and he could con-
duct as accurately within the Viennese
tradition of Haydn as he could in the
music of Stravinsky or Schonberg.
Moreover, his programmes were adven-
turous too much so for some re-
viewers, who took amiss his excursions
into the romantic hinterland, from which
he rescued the symphonies of Liszt,
Tchaikovsky’s Manfred, and the Romeo
and Juliet symphony of Berlioz.
Goossens’ death last week has probably
not lost England a major composer,
though his bigger works capable,
lucid, and a little cool may well hold
the reputation they have. But it does
represent a loss to Australian music, for
no other non-Australian musician has
given us so much of himself, nor to such
lasting effect.
MELBOURNE FILM FESTIVAL
HUNT FOR THE GOLDEN BOOMERANG
year s Melbourne Film Festival
was re-organised to conform with
international festival rules, which demand
limitation of playing days to fourteen, and
of audiences to 2000. By conforming to
these rules and offering competitive
prizes, the festival obtained the endorse-
ment of the F.1.A.P.F., and in conse-
quence secured a record number of entries
(175 from 31 countries), including a few
from top directors. The move undoubt-
edly made for a better festival than last
year’s, but it was nonetheless nothing out
of the box. Either it still failed to attract
the best, which could be expected in the
first year of change, or the year’s produc-
tion was not very impressive. Of the
group of features which I saw, only three
had any substantial claims to merit—•
Antonioni’s “La Notte”, Satyajit Ray’s
“Two Daughters ’, and Cassavetes’
“Shadows ’. Of the other group, “The
Island” was well-received, as was “A
Taste of Honey”, which replaced Bunuel’s
“Viridiana”, originally intended as the
piece de resistance of the group, but
apparently so relished by the censors that
they thought it too strong for an undis-
criminating bunch of festival fans.
In fact the censors must have had a
grand fortnight. Besides “Viridiana”, they
cut up “La Notte”, “Shadows” and “The
Island”. While one must respect the
probity of their intentions, one cannot
but fear in turn for their own moral
safety. A special award —say, the Golden
Gunny Bag—should have been made to
the Heroes of Purity of the Customs
Department.
The top award, the Golden Boomerang,
was thrown to Satyajit Ray’s “Two
Daughters”, a warm, delicately-balanced
comedy based on two stories by Rabind-
ranath Tagore. The choice was a just


BURSAR
SYDNEY CHURCH OF ENGLAND
GRAMMAR SCHOOL
NORTH SYDNEY
The position of Bursar at Shore School will become
vacant on the retirement of the present Bursar on the 30th November next.
The duties of the position will include:
(1) that of Clerk of the School Coun-
cil and Financial and Accounting
Officer of the Council, the Bursar
having his own staff of 4 clerks;
(2) that of manager under the Head-
master of school properties and of
the following employees: grounds-
man, gardeners, carpenters, paint-
ers, cleaners, office clerks, house-
keeper and kitchen staff.
Applicants should have accountancy
qualifications and some executive ex-
perience; preferably some supervisory
experience in perhaps the building-
trade or catering; and if possible ex-
perience in grounds maintenance. Age
range 30 to 50 years. The commencing
salary will exceed £2,000 per annum,
based on age and experience, and it
is hoped that the man appointed will
justify more after experience in the
School. There is a Superannuation
Scheme.
Written applications , accompanied by copies of
testimonials , are now invited in confidence addressed to:
Hon. Secretary to the Council, Shore School, NORTH SYDNEY
from whom any further information may be obtained.
one. “La Notte” seemed to me to have
the strongest claim, especially if one were
interested in original exploration into the
contemporary world; but “Two Daugh-
ters” did approach such perfection in
communicating simple, fundamental
human feeling that it would be hard to
take any award from it.
Antonioni’s is surely one of the most
striking talents in the modern cinema.
No one captures with such clarity, nor so
harshly, the stops and starts and mean-
derings of individuals in their unconscious
attempts to pick a few essentials out of
the mass of social habits which make up
the face they present to the world.
A good deal less interesting than these
two, but very popular, was John Cassa-
vetes’ “Shadows”. Its interest technically
consists in its being an edited series of
improvisations. This is also its weakness,
since a deal of the improvising is more
posturing than purposeful acting, so that
the technique itself ends up by being the
main point. It did however have a
wonderful jazz background, which virtu-
ally assumed the role of a leading actor.
For the rest, there were a few pleasant
minor features, and a string of shorts
which were generally not up to the stan-
dard of previous festivals. Among the
documentaries were a couple of splendid
ones, like “The Hunters”, but the good
seemed more than weighed down by pre-
tentious nonsense like “Description of a
Struggle”. The prize-winner in the Aus-
tralian section was a corny piece of Aus-
traliana about “Cattle Carters”, whose
only claim to novelty seemed to be its
crashing in on the current cult of the
Work Song. One thing that seriously
detracted from many shorts was the
stuffy, sub-standard, home-made and
excruciatingly uncomfortable theatrette.
K. RICKETT
TELEVISION
HOW UNGRAPHIC CAN YOU GET?
Accent. The Critics. ABN.
C|ne of the most fascinating studies in
how to spend 45 minutes saying
almost nothing about a writer and his
works is currently going the rounds of
ABC channels. It is a grouping of 30
minutes of an Accent programme on
D. H. Lawrence, followed by The
Critics, who leap at his novel, Kangaroo.
The Accent half hour offers apparent
riches. One of America’s poets, John
Ciardi, interviews an author of several
of the alleged 800 books about Lawrence,
and a lady who knew D. H. and his wife
Freida during their New Mexico period.
The cameras roved a section of the
New Mexican landscape, Ciardi ap-
peared, Harry T. Moore joined him, and
they sat on a bench and talked about
Lawrence’s travels, his relationship with
Freida (who was described as a “German
Baronessa”), and his feelings about New
Mexico’s Indians and sunsets.
Ciardi then moved along to ask the
Hon. Dorothy Brett such probing ques-
tions as, “You knew Lawrence for a
great many years, did you not?” And the
Hon. Dorothy, in New Mexico for 36
years but still British to the bone, gave
equally illuminating answers, such as,
“Yes”. She also revealed that Lawrence’s
“essential message to the world” was
“to have respect for the world”.
We then rejoined Harry T. Moore out-
side Lawrence’s tomb, where he looked
down at the cross over Freida’s grave,
and remarked solemnly, “It’s hard to
believe she’s dead”. Asked about Law-
rence and sex, he said D. H. was ab-
sorbed in renewal, resurrection, regenera-
tion, and “sex was part of that”.
Finally, we viewed a sunset while the
recorded voice of Freida Lawrence
proved that she had a heavy German
accent and had been difficult to under-
stand in English. There were no graphics,
not so much as a picture of Lawrence, or
Freida, or the Indians who shared Law-
rence’s “reverence for earth”. Mere
words to a microphone are not television.
Nor, I’m afraid, are our friends The
Critics, who still feel it’s enough to
sit and argue, with no wit and little
wisdom.
Max Harris offered his panel such
unbiased remarks as, “Is Kangaroo a
good book or, as I suspect, a hopeless
muddle? Does this language of emotional
sludge really create a work of art?
Aren’t the characters mainly soul-
searching types you wouldn’t find in a
month of Sundays?”
Eric Westbrook said Kangaroo is a
work of art and chided Max for being
“a little bit boy from the bush, liking
Patrick White and not this”.
If I appear to harp on the subject of
graphics, may I remark that a recent
book review by Clement Semmler was
accompanied by a picture of D. H. Law-
rence, and I think enlivened by it. But
as Assistant General Manager Pro-
grammes for the ABC, Mr Semmler
gives us 45 minutes about Lawrence
without a single photograph of the man,
or of anything related to him except his
tomb and his wife’s grave.
FRANK ROBERTS
THEATRE
ON A SAFE SHORE
The Grotto. Robert Wales. Indepen-
dent Theatre. Sydney.
HThe Grotto is a pretty bad play.
Drawing lightly on some dimly-
observed real life in a lane in (according
to Mr Wales) Woolloomooloo, it tells of
a completely unlikeable Italian family
who think nothing of a quick murder or
tricking a son-in-law.
Predictably enough, these toughs have
the sweetest little teenage daughter, for
whom Grand-dad Tough is bringing a
good fisherman husband from Italy. A
dumb young Australian from Cooktown
comes to roost opposite the toughs’
house—he shares a room with a Maltese
character, a true Passing-Of-The-Third-
Floor-Back type, an eloquent Christ of
the slums. Mr Third-Floor-Back holds
out for a time against helping the true
love that naturally starts to flow between
daughter and dumb young Australian,
but finally he discovers some mystic and
eloquent motivation for getting young
love off the launching pad. Third-Floor-


Back then passes out (Act 3) in the arms
of a tart who threatens to castrate Grand-
dad Tough if he lays a dirty bloody hand
on dear old Third-Floor.
So, it’s a melodrama, and so full of
mistakes about its locale and people that
the author forfeits all those major respects
we are willing to pay to truth and really
acute observation. If Mr Wales had pro-
perly looked at his people, looked at them
with love of persons and the urge to know
and discover some of the wilder shores
of life, then perhaps his play would have
been filled out sufficiently.
Perhaps the only ray of light in the
whole evening at the Independent was
the remarkably warm and human por-
trayal by Mr A 1 Thomas, as the central
Christ - like figure of the play. Mr
Peter Summerton’s production apart
from a farcical laddertop scene which will
have to be changed if the play is to have
anything but a comic ending—got all
there was to be gotten from The Grotto.
Two players well-known in television —
Misses Tanya Halesworth and Patsy Ann
Noble appeared, and proved that
whereas a minor talent can sometimes
get quite a way on TV, the same luck
doesn’t hold for theatre.
KEVON KEMP
ART
A GOOD JOLT
Stanislaus Ostoja. Argus Gallery.
Melbourne.
Peter Burns. South Yarra Gallery.
Melbourne.
Qtanislaus ostoja’s exhibition of
paintings in porcelain enamel and
plastic at the Argus Gallery is large and
spectacular. Some of this Polish-South
Australian painter’s work has been seen
here in collective shows, and his work
in theatre design is well known, but this
is his first big exhibition we have seen
in Melbourne.
Much of the spectacular effect is due
to his materials. The porcelain enamel,
baked on to sheet metal, has the rich,
jewel-like appeal of enamels, while re-
taining at the same time the dimensions
of free, abstract painting.
After the immediate and very strong
impact has subsided somewhat, two quite
distinct aesthetic intentions emerge. I say
“intentions” because I doubt that the
marked difference between the enamels
and the plastics can be entirely due to
the diversity of the materials. By and
large the plastics are more beautiful,
and often more striking than the enamels.
The enamels, on the other hand, in
spite of their brilliant surfaces, are much
harsher. The color range is less subtle
—a lot are just bright red, white and
black —and the shapes a mixture of large
splashes and spreading blotches which
call to mind unhealthy organisms. The
space is still well controlled, but the
overall effect is more jarring than beauti-
ful. Ostoja manages, rather in the way
the musique concrete specialists do in
their field, to force us back to a con-
sideration of the basic, and usually un-
examined effects of his materials. What-
ever your reactions may be to such a
jolting, his work should be found highly
stimulating.
Peter Burns’ latest landscapes at the
South Gallery are also very stimulating
works. One in particular, “Architecture
in Landscape”, is a most engaging paint-
ing. Although there is a disturbing clash
between the somewhat over-pretty colors
and the roughness of the heavily en-
crusted, rather scruffy surfaces, the bold
mass effects and subtly deepened spaces
vividly evoke, in Turneresque fashion,
the wild scenery to which he is ap-
parently attracted. He has above all
a clear perception of natural beauty
and his lavish technique conveys the
essentials of his feeling.
BILL HANNAN
ART
GAGGED ELOQUENCE
Peter Kaiser. Skinner Gallery. Perth.
/\ne of the earnests of sincere non-
objective painting is finish. Peter
Kaiser’s canvases are beautifully worked
up, and care and cunning have been
lavished on their surfaces. Finish is an
objective criterion; for the rest, in
judging abstracts one is forced to rely on
what the aesthetic machine does to one-
self, and to extrapolate from one’s own
subjective response to the possible res-
ponse of others.
For myself, I was arrested by these
paintings. The finest thing is Mushrooms,
a surface of watery ochre stains, like ink
on blotting paper, on a ground of cream.
The blots or stains are graded ;rom pale
centres to slightly darker edges, which
are prised and indented and provided
with penumbras. The suggestion is of
pale fungi seen from above; but it is
also, and equally, of the bubbling of
some primeval hot pool or sulphur pit.
These few yellow stains recall a world
of living things, less than man, and older
than him.
There is a whole set of paintings that
have, like Mushrooms, muted weathered
“immemorial” looking surfaces. Guadiz
in warm but gritty browns is a collage of
hessian, string and burnt cotton wool(?),
painted to look like something left from
another era Mountains looks like
cocoa spilt on a worn and grooved sur-
face of gutta-percha, or creamish rubber
cement. All these surfaces set up a
strong aesthetic reaction.
The trouble about abstract expression-
ism is that it can only move the observer
obscurely, and no matter how clearly the
artist may see his idea, or feel his emo-
tions, his vocabulary will not let him
express himself articulately. These paint-
ings move me considerably, but they are
for me, like many other important
abstracts, splendid monuments of gagged
eloquence
PATRICK HUTCHINGS
ART
INVISIBLE NIGHT
Clifton Pugh. Bonython Gallery.
Adelaide.
Pugh presents twenty - one
pictures, all dated within the past
eighteen months. There are three superb,
delicate portraits, “Grant Mathews”,
“Dick Barnes”, and “Woman of the
Night”, the last a belle dame sans merci
with the face of a changeling who had
every visitor to the show in her thrall.
In the rest there are the angular birds;
the dingoes, ’roos, horses, emus, and
lizards, dead and alive; and the grasses,
stumps, and parabolic curves; all beauti-
fully painted with half-dreaming wonder.
Five are called “Dingoes and Drought”.
Eight “After the Bushfire” show Aus-
tralia’s hellish rhythm of excessive
growth, then burning, then regrowth,
which is superimposed upon the seasons
with beats so slow that the two or three
of them can take up the lifetime of a
man.
It is impudent to comment that Pugh
is a magnificent painter of the human
face and hands but that so far, with few
exceptions, only the figures of himself
and his family have entered his pictures
of the bush? Will he personify us, too,
as well as the Pughs, in the midst of this
dangerous land? Is he a bush herald,
or something more, a kniaht preparing
to enter the joust itself? If he does enter
the joust itself? If he does enter it,
another Drvsdale will be among us.
EARLE HACKETT


THE RED PAGE
HOW TO TAKEOVER MAGAZINES
WITHOUT REALLY TRYING
By DONALD HORNE
It was a good idea for Hugh Cudlipp*
to cash in on the fuss that arose
when the London Mirror Group
spectacularly took over Odhams. It
means that at least part of a book has
at last been written about English popular
magazines.
More the pity that it was only part
of a book. Someone had better hurry
up and write a whole book because it
looks as if the period in English pub-
lishing history that began with a sudden
proliferation at the end of the 19 th
century has ended in the middle of the
20th century with a sudden shrinking.
By tradition this period began on the
night when George Newnes, a fancy
goods traveller, read out to his wife an
incident about an engine driver chasing
a runaway engine. His wife said she
wished there were a paper full of “tit-
bits like that” and the result was
Newnes’s “Tit-bits”, a short par,
anecdotal, informative, stunt-competition,
free-railway-insurance job that was soon
selling 900,000 copies a week.
While “Tit-bits” was the onlie true
begetter of the mass-circulation popular
magazine boom in the sense that it was
the first, it did not of course grow out
of nothing. The bits and pieces formula
is a very old one and middle-class maga-
zines such as “Household Words”, “Cas-
sell’s Popular Education” and “The
Englishwoman’s Domestic Magazine”
sold well in the middle of the 19th
century.
“Tit-bits” captured a much greater
market than they did because its easily
assimilable lower-middle-class, upper-
working-class appeal spread like wild fire
at a time when more people could read,
when presses could run off more copies
and when the growing advertising
industry was looking for mass markets.
There was nothing new in the formula
(there are no new formulas). But there
was something new in social, tech-
nological and economic conditions.
By the end of the century three men
had made fortunes out of these con-
ditions Newnes, Arthur Pearson and
Alfred Harmsworth.
When advertising got into “Tit-bits” it
became an immensely profitable proposi-
tion, backed by revenue from the higher-
social-appeal “Review of Reviews” and
“The Strand Magazine”. Pearson built
up his business by pinching the “Tit-bits”
formula and launching the successful
“Pearson’s Weekly” and other successes.
And the 21-year-old Alfred Harmsworth
—the greatest of all pinchers—built up
an even greater business when he got out
his scissors and paste and started
“Answers” on the “Tit-bits” formula,
then pinched other ideas and started
“Comic Cuts”, “Chips”, “Forget-Me-
Not”, “Home Chat”, “Home Sweet
Home”, “Union Jack”, “The Halfpenny
Marvel”, “The Boy’s Friend” and “The
Sunday Companion”. Each of them
successfully appealed to special markets
and all of them were flourishing within
13 years of the foundation of “Tit-bits”;
they combined to give the future Lord
Northcliffe the fortune with which he
entered the newspaper industry (which he
almost ended owning).
But the pre-First World War situation
in which the firms of Newnes, Pearson
and Northcliffe were the magazine giants
had almost completely changed by the
beginning of the Second World War.
And it changed again after it.
T>y 1939 Pearsons was out of the pic-
ture and Northcliffe’s string (turned
into Amalgamated Press), though form-
ing the biggest magazine publishing
house, missed most of the tricks under
Lord Rothermere and then the Berry
Brothers.t Amalgamated Press stuck to
old formulas in changing times, a policy
that, if you keep it up for too long, can
ensure a good present and no future. It
became the “slumbering giant” of the
magazine industry.
Newnes and the new firm of Odhams,
although not the biggest publishers, were
now the leaders. Odhams’ entry into
magazine publishing was an accident.
They were jobbing printers who made a
lot of money out of printing Horatio
Bottomley’s outrageous “John Bull”. Not
long before Bottomley was sent to gaol
for swindling, Odhams reluctantly took
over “John Bull” in payment of
Bottomley’s unpaid printing bill and
thereby unwillingly pushed themselves
into the magazine industry.
However, once they got into maga-
zines, Odhams made a success of them.
In the 1930 s Odhams and Newnes took
up rotogravure and exploited the (still
continuing) women’s magazine boom,
giving Amalgamated Press its fatal blow.
On the sideline Hultons had also got into
magazines, with a publishing group
moulded around “Picture Post”.
They all prospered during the war
when competition was frozen and any-
body would read anything. After the
war Hultons lost touch with the market
and Amalgamated Press did not regain
it. Newnes and Odhams over-exploited
the women’s market with too much
competition and the general magazines
“John Bull”, “Everybody’s”, “Picture
Post” and “Illustrated” declined, then
disappeared for reasons we are all still
speculating about, leaving England with
no large sale popular general magazine
except “Reveille” and “Weekend” (which,
turning the full circle, represented an up-
to-date treatment of the “Tit-bits”
formula).
At this stage the Mirror Group entered
the magazine industry and by what seems
to have been a series of accidents ended
up buying the lot. The battle they
engaged in over Odhams with the Thom-
son group was not a newspaper battle,
although it was represented as one. No
one in his right mind would have wanted
to buy Odhams’s “Daily Herald” and
would certainly not go to all that trouble
and expense to buy the admittedly
profitable “People”. Hugh Cudlipp makes
it clear that they would have been happy
to sell the “Herald” to anyone who was
silly enough to want to buy it, or even
to wrap up the profitable “People” in
the package. The whole thing was a
magazine war—except that in the case
of the Mirror Group it was a magazine
war to end a magazine war.
The battle began when the Mirror
Group bought Amalgamated Press. One
gathers that in buying into this sometimes
outrageously successful, sometimes out-
rageously disastrous and always—in the
long run—risky field the Mirror Group
bought trouble.
When they took over Amalgamated
Press they bought prosperous subsidiaries
in the Imperial Paper Mills, in Kelly’s
Directories and in the Iliffe Press’s clutch
of trade and technical periodicals. But
* At Your Peril. Hugh Cudlipp.
Weidenfeld and Nicholson. 265.
fThose who think takeovers are new should
ponder the context of the Berry Brothers pur-
chase of Amalgamated Press in the 19205.
Edward Hulton. who made his fortune by start-
ing y 2 d. evening papers to meet the new taste
for sport, sold seven newspapers for £5,000,000
to Lord Rothermere and Lord Beaverbrook, who
split them up. Lord Rothermere then sold most
of what he had bought to the Berry Brothers
for £5,500,000. They then sold these papers to
a public company they controlled for £7 900 000
and used this money to buy Amalgamated Press
from Rothermere for £8,000,000. Rothermere
then used this £8,000,000 to buy provincial
papers to compete with the Berrys who then,
•bought more provincial papers to compete with
Rothmere, etc. etc., until both sides retired
exhausted.


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. “D”. Box 2G71, G.P.0.. Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if
successful.
they also bought a dreadful headache in
the 42 weeklies, 23 monthlies and 20
annuals run by Amalgamated Press itself.
This lot of odds and ends added up to
what was still the biggest magazine
business in the country. But it was also
the most run down. All of its magazines
were also-rans in the big field that was
led by Odhams’s “Woman” and Newnes’s
“Women’s Own”. The pallor of no-
change had fallen on Amalgamated Press
which meant that, while they still had
strong markets for their old formulas,
sometime that market was going to die
off. And their new ventures were always
modest.
Left badly by Odhams and Newnes
when they got into rotogravure at the
right time, Amalgamated Press clung to
a policy of no-change in editorial policy.
If you carry on with that particular
mistake too long you develop rationalisa-
tions for your inefficiency. You lower
your sights, speak modestly of your “own
market” and develop an incestuous
relationship with your readers whose
beguiling old-faithful letters come to
mean more than the sales figures. You
come to consider popular magazine pro-
duction as a way of life. It isn’t. It’s a
way of entertaining people and making
money. If you don’t make the money
you cease to engage in it. You reach
such a stage that you have made it
impossible to change except by a great
act of boldness; but since you have been
living exclusively on prudence you have
lost the ability to be bold. You console
yourself with the thought that boldness
would wreck the business.
And so, of course, it might.
One of the nightmares of a magazine
is that there are only two ways to
muck it up: one is not to change its
policy and the other is to change it. If
changing is a continuing, imperceptible,
experimental and shrewdly assessed
activity—as it has been with the spec-
tacularly successful “Australian Women’s
Weekly”—it can come off. But if change
has to come with a bang you take risks
that might bang you out of business.
How can l keep old readers and gain
new? is the question editors ask them-
selves when they try to lift a tired old
face. Sometimes the answer is a blunt:
you can’t. Then the question becomes:
How can l get rid of less old readers than
1 gain new ones? Try saying that 20
times each night for six months before
going to sleep. Be your own editor.
When they acquired Amalgamated
Press the Mirror Group went through all
the first exhilarating stages of a takeover
gaily enough. Shunting people around,
re-directing talent into different chairs
or out the window, looking for new
talent, killing a few hopeless magazines,
talking about streamlining, modernisa-
tion, four-color and sales promotion is
fun while it lasts. Then you have to
deliver the goods.
At this particular point did their con-
fidence lapse? It would not be to their
shame if it did. In a television age maga-
zines aren’t what they used to be and
in England the market was overcrowded,
over-competitive and here and there was
ihe irignicning smell of obsolescence.
Even worse, the opposition had ration-
alised itself. In the way in which one
takeover sets off another the Mirror
Group takeover of Amalgamated Press
set off other takeover offers which
ended in Odhams buying Hulton Press
for £1,800,000 and Newnes for
£13,000,000.
Hulton Press had already collapsed
from a magazine empire into a minor
duchy, but it still had a dozen titles,
including some good children’s comics, a
line in which Odhams’s was light on.
Newnes was a better acquisition
although highly priced—making the new
Odhams group the largest magazine pub-
lishing house in the world, controlling
“Woman”, “Woman’s Own”, “Woman’s
Realm” and “Woman’s Day”, plus a host
of profitable littlies plus the profitable
“People” and the failing “Herald”.
A gainst this line-up the Mirror Group
had to contemplate putting millions
of pounds into a battle that would last
some years to push their “Woman’s
Mirror” and “Woman’s Illustrated” to
the top. And they could always lose the
battle.
It was then that Cecil King, chairman
of the Mirror Group, had a talk to Sir
Christopher Chancellor, chairman of
Odhams, and suggested that they cut
down their competition by each dropping
a costly loser, which would at least save
£700,000 a year between them on exist-
ing figures and more if they had to pep
up their competition. This talk led to a
Savoy lunch at which the idea that
Odhams might buy the Amalgamated
Press publications was waved in the air
and this led to talk of a merger between
the two firms.
At this stage Roy Thomson broke in
with a takeover offer for Odhams. After
a lot of flap the Mirror Group outbid
him. They ended up owning Newnes,
Odhams and Hultons as well as Iliffe,
Kellys and Amalgamated. There was a
glorious shareout of satrapies for Mirror
Group men.
Does it matter, this huge gathering
together under one group of 19
periodicals, 48 annuals, 11 children’s
library series, 106 commercial, trade,
technical and professional journals, 135
directories, almanacs and year books,
27 women’s magazines and 40
encyclopaedias?
Under the particular circumstances I
don’t think it matters a damn. Cecil
King seems to be an artist in delegation;
he picks men and lets them go ahead —■
and off they go. The group is decentral-
ised in its administration; if you are
sacked by one of the 135 directories or
the 11 library series or the 27 women’s
magazines you can still get a job on one
of the other 134 directories or 10 library
series or 26 women’s magazines.
Under a power maniac this might not
be the case. But if a power maniac tried
to run a business as complex as this in
detail without delegation he would make
such a mess of it that his directors would
sack him. Or he would create such a
scandal that public opinion would bring
him to heel.
Nor can one seriously suggest that any-
one would be mad enough to want to
control the thought content of most of
this extraordinary publishing empire—the
directories, trade journals and so on. As
to the women’s magazines, I don’t think
it would matter much to the future of
democracy if all the women’s magazines
in the world were bought by one publish-
ing group.
1 do not wish to overstate this case,
but to dramatise it; the preceding
sentence should be treated as a rhetorical
flourish. Women’s magazines can, of
course, have important social effects but
I think that very largely their nature is
conditioned by society rather than the
other way round. In content they are
largely informative and entertaining and
in a democracy this is about as far as
they would go. If they became anything
else they would lose sales and become
unprofitable.
It would be a disgraceful thing, of
course, if the Mirror Group controlled
all the magazines in England. But there
is little chance of their doing that (and
no sign that they want to). Women’s
magazines represent an economic prob-
lem of over-competition in one part of
the entertainment industry and rational-
isation may be inevitable. But in the
smaller magazine field the Mirror Group
control only one tenth of the field and
in the particular conditions of the smaller
magazine field, competition and innova-
tion is still economically possible.
Still, to a romantic who can see in
the history of British magazine publish-
ing over the last 80 years the same
patterns of behavior that have charac-
terised bold adventurers in other fields in
other ages, it is sad to realise that it
would be a very brave fancy goods sales-
man indeed who would now discuss an
idea for a new popular magazine with
his wife as they chat over their evening
paper.


The Adelaide Festival of Arts (Inc.)
PERMANENT
CHIEF
EXECUTIVE
OFFICER
A permanent Chief Executive Officer is re-
quired for The Adelaide Festival of Arts.
Applicants should primarily have administra-
tive experience and also some knowledge
of musical and/or theatrical promotion.
Salary would be of the order of £3,000 per
annum for a minimum appointment of four
years.
Applications giving age, experience, copies
of references etc., or seeking further details
are required by July 14 addressed to:
The Chairman,
Adelaide Festival of Arts,
Box 392, G.P.0., ADELAIDE.
THAT CERTAIN BOOK
MISS TAYLOR NOTWITHSTANDING
By ALAN REID
presumably have souls, though
you’d never know it from some of
the assignments they give you. “Recall
the first book that influenced you as a
child,” said my editor. “Re-read it.” His
moustache quivered like the almost
imperceptible wingbeat of a hovering
kite hawk about to strike. He struck.
“Criticise it,” he instructed, happily.
How can you criticise such a book?
It is not a book. It is part of your life.
To criticise it would be like denigrating
the aunt who gave you your first dog
because she had bad feet, poor eyesight
and stubby little hands coarsened with
a lifetime of hard, menial work. Some
things editors notwithstanding are
beyond criticism. You can’t analyse them.
It is with your emotions, not your reason,
that you react to their existence.
Rider Haggard’s “Cleopatra” is only
the second “grown up” book I remember
reading (Haggard’s “King Solomon’s
Mines” was the first). I haven’t a clue
how old I was at the time. At a guess,
I’d say somewhere round about the ten
mark. But it gave me the one night-
mare I recall ever having—serried ranks
of Egyptian mummies ranged themselves
terrifyingly around my bedroom the night
I read it—a vague feeling [that hardened
with advancing years] that politics is a
male world for which women, except in
highly exceptional cases, are unsuited,
and the ambition, never realised, to spend
my life in scholarly research.
Before I re-read the book, 1 experi-
mented. I tried to see how much my
memory had retained across the nearly
40 years since my first reading. I had
a vivid recollection that the book opened
with a Victorian Englishman, a medico
visiting Egypt, hearing that a band of
desert tomb robbers had made a find. In
an underground chamber beneath a cave
whose entrance had almost disappeared
under drifting sand, the tomb robbers
had found a shaft down which they had
descended to find three coffins. “With
unhallowed hands” (I could remember
the words) they broke open two of the
coffins and unwrapped the mummy
cloths from around the embalmed bodies.
One body was that of a dignified, very
old man; the other of a woman. For
some unexplained reason under the com-
pulsion of haste, the robbers departed
with their plunder, leaving undisturbed
the third coffin which, unadorned and
unmarked, seemed the coffin of a person
of no conseauence and unlikely to con-
tain worthwhile loot.
HThe medico arranged with the robbers
to visit the tomb. With the fine dis-
regard for “meum” and “teum” that
seems to have marked the British Empire
builder of that gunboat era, he bargained
that any fresh acquisitions by the ghoul-
ish expedition were to become his
personal property. He went. He and
Ali, were lowered into the depths. They
opened the third coffin. The mummy was
strangely twisted, its knees drawn up des-
pite the heavy grave wrappings. A gold
face mask had been worked round until it
was BENEATH the mummy’s head and
pounded shapeless. It was obvious that
the mummy had been buried ALIVE.
But the horror of the discovery did not
upset the stout heart or strong stomach
of our Victorian adventurer. He and Ali
proceeded to unwrap the mummy cloths.
In the cloths they found several rolls of
papyrus.
The rolls contained the ill-starred
history of Harmachis, Priest of Isis,
descendant of the old line of Egyptian
Pharaohs, and focal point of a secret
conspiracy to depose Cleopatra, daughter
of the Greek interlopers who had held
Egypt since Alexander’s generals on his
death divided his vast Empire, and to
replace her on the throne of Upper and
Lower Egypt with Harmachis, who
would restore worship of ancient gods.
My memory of this section was far less
precise and may have stemmed from
later reading as much as childhood
impressions. But it seemed that I re-
membered Haggard’s Cleopatra as an
intelligent, ruthless person who used her
beauty as a political weapon to hold her
precarious Queenship until her femininity
rose superior to her political judgment
and passion led her into the weakness of
backing Rome’s Mark Antony and his
losing faction in the struggle for control
of an Empire against the cold, calculating
Octavian, Caesar’s nephew and the instru-
ment of her destruction. Harmachis fell
victim to her feminine guile, betrayed
his supporters and his own cause and
delivered into her hands treasures stored
against the hour of ancient Egypt’s need
within the mummified corpse of a long
dead Pharaoh in a tomb chamber hidden
in the heart of a pyramid.
When I re-read the book I found that
my memory was not far astray. But I
could not read it detachedly. For me,
it was just as exciting as when I read it
as a kid but for different reasons. It
brought back reading memories how
through it I had been introduced to
Breasted, Weigall, Budge, Petrie, Woolley
and others who had sought to uncover
Egypt’s long history. As I read of
Cleopatra’s and Harmachis’ clandestine,
midnight entry through the secret
passageway to the tomb of the divine
Menkau-Ra in the heart of that mountain
of stone, I could see in my mind’s eye a
photograph in Carter’s three volume
account of his discoveries in Tutan-
khamun’s tomb.
There is a lot of melodrama in the
book. But then there is a lot of melo-
drama in life. Is there any more melo-
drama in Haggard’s fictional description
of Cleopatra’s farewell to the dying
Antony and her own death tryst with
the betrayed Harmachis than there is in
Trevor-Roper’s factual account of what
went on inside the Fuhrer’s bunker in
Berlin in 1945.
I know now why—though I am no
expert —I have the courage (or brash-
ness) to have a view about the Dead
Sea Scrolls and to be a “genizah” man,
holding that they represent ritually un-
clean writings (which under Jewish law
could not be destroyed if they contained
the name of God and hence were buried
or concealed) rather than the library of
an Essene sect. “Cleopatra” and the
reading she led me into were responsible.
You can’t criticise or analyse the
books that influenced you as a child.
Gratitude blunts your critical sense. Or
at least that was how it was with me
when I re-read “Cleopatra” which once
gave me a nightmare but now provides
me with nostalgic reading memories.


POEMS
Let us Begin with Miracles
There are no mysteries that have begun
beyond the boundaries that you and I
contain and reach together day and day;
there are no themes that we do not explain
and animate or span and act upon.
But we must live it out too close to see
the shape, we have no time to mark the way.
The sharp sun scratches into afternoon
and knows tomorrow is already gone.
We ache to make forever hold our mark
and all around the land that w'e have held
is moving in the glare, our sight is spoiled.
O hold me, my best crafts can only speak
the city garbage-tips of what I seek,
but this embrace that all are simple at
is plan and planet ringed about with light.
Though sharp sun scratches into afternoon
tomorrow’s life and plight have been begun.
Man on a barque around the hemisphere,
or shuffling molecules, or past the moon,
is home at last, is truly humbly one
notated among seasons of the year;
is not outside the mystery, but here,
the operative, the tool. Let us begin
with miracles. Let us be all again
before the sharp sun scratches afternoon
and our quick metals all are gone, are gone.
THOMAS W SHAPCOTT
Vessel Settled into Harbour
(Poem to my Painting )
Vessel settled into harbour
Meshed in warehouse and dock
Grows to the city that found her
Decked with its colour and shape
Pointed for sea, a vessel of streets
Knows of edging, far off dark
Ocean where harbours and harsh skies meet
Only now knows only wash
Settled and safe in my harbour house
I view that harsh and jagged life
Here between tree and settled thatch
A personal view, no seagulls have.
BARRY ELLIOTT
River Bank
Graz — Austria.
Smoke of roasting chestnuts permeates
the whole October night with acrid scent.
Graz we’ve first dissected, then absorbed
and stored for reconstructing on the banks
of antipodean waters —not content
with the heat of home and the shade of travel spent.
Brasiers offer foreign gods their incense,
w'here the river charges bedless black.
Having braved the flood of many cultures,
the confluence of wars, this town survives
for what? To star in a Tourist Almanac
(another place for gewgaws then a snack).
You and I are growing close tonight.
We linger, elbows splayed along a rail
and focus down the galloping watercourse.
We’ve learnt to know each other’s love, so proof
no longer bears repeating. If we stare
at the river deeply—fathom it —we might
just find we both can recognize the source
of the Murrumbidgee or the Brisbane there.
RODNEY HALL
Return to Bartley's Hill
From this green hill
The years of sunlight culminate
In an afternoon; the hatted city
Falling like a sea
Whose brilliant moment stills the seeking mind:
This vision transcends time,
The blasting winds
That huddled us like fear
Or urged us through the old and lonely streets;
Timeless eyes
Roving in the wind like stars.
Dear thoughts show tender in the sun,
The jostle of a dozen cars
Undoes the mystery of these haunts:
There is only a memory of the stars.
DAVID WOOD
Burning Sappho
The clothes are washed, the house is clean.
I find my pen and start to write.
Something like anger forks between
My child and me. She kicks her good
New well-selected toys with spite
Around the room, and whines for food.
Inside my smile a monster grins
And sticks her image through with pins.
The child is fed, and sleeps. The dishes
Are washed, the clothes are ironed and aired.
I take my pen. A kind friend wishes
To gossip while she knits her socks.
Scandal and pregnancies are shared.
The child wakes, and the Rector knocks.
Invisible inside their placid
Hostess, a fiend pours prussic acid.
Night now. Orion first begins
To show. Day’s trivial angers cease.
All is required, until one wins,
At last, this hour. I start to write.
My husband calls me, rich in peace,
To bed. Now deathless verse, goodnight.
In my warm thighs a fleshless devil
Chops him to bits with hell-cold evil.
AM’s quiet at last: the world, the flesh,
The devils burning in my brain.
Some air of morning stirs afresh
My shaping element. The mind
With images of love and pain
Grapples down gulfs of sleep. I’ll find
My truth, my poem, and grasp it yet.
“The moon is gone, the Pleiads set . .
MIRIAM STONE


C.N.D.
Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament, Sydnej
A Public meeting will be held on Tuesday, 26th
June, ac 8 p.m. 7th Floor, Federation House.
166 Phillip Street.
Speakers: T. Uren. Labor M.H.R : Roland
Robinson, writer; Professor J. Green. Radiation
Chemistry Dept., University of N.S.W.
HALE SCHOOL
Wembley Downs
Western Australia
requires an experienced graduate in ENGLISH
to take charge of English throughout the School
from January, 1963. Honours Degree in English
and experience in organizing English Depart-
ment highly desirable. Masters to teach
LANGUAGES (with the possibility of taking
over the Department), MATHEMATICS and
SCIENCE will also be required in 1963.
Salaries in line with W.A. Education Depart-
n *. basic scale up to £1,992 per annum, with
additional allowances for responsibility.
This Boys' School is the oldest School in Western
Australia and has recently moved to new
buildings on a site of 130 acres. The Second-
ary School will contain approximately 500 boys
in 1963 of whom 140 will be boarders.
Applications in . writing, stating age, marital
state, qualifications, experience and religious
denomination, and enclosing testimonials and
the names of two referees, should be addressed
to Ihe Headmaster, Hale School, Wembley Downs,
Western Australia.
MOTOR OVERHAUL
WHILE-U-DRIVE
in-s LA rtm c WORN ’ u PP er cylds., main bear-
dm , s -. Sears SAVE: Rebore. ENDS:
PFSTORpif. P ' m rattles ' oil - Petrol waste,
KESXORES. New compression, power, ton
GEAPmI,’ S I’n VE tt" A . dds O LSD to re-sale value.
GUARANTEED; Up to 25,000 miles. Harmless
finest engine, liquid Nu-Metal, or in Tablet
SIMPLY: Add Re-Nu expanding liquid
Nu-Metal, or in Tablet form to oil. petrol, or
plug holes, 4, 6. 8 cylds., 60/. 70/. 80/ Testi-
monials. engineers' reports, free advice avail-
att7° P ™ Saturday. Distributors required.
RE ' NU CO (estab. 1932), 58 Swan St op
Richmond Stn:, Vic. J 81755.
I enclose £ for Super Nu-Metal
NAME-
ADDRESS ‘
Legal Notices
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO WILLIAM HAYDEN DAVENPORT late of
Martin Street, Warners Bay in the State of
New South Wales TAKE NOTICE that MAVIS
AUDREY DAVENPORT has filed a Petition
for Divorce number 2044 of 1961 on the
ground of desertion and cruelty. If you wish
to defend this suit you may enter an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Mint Building,
Macquarie Street, Sydney within 28 days
from the publication of this notice and
obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
from Douglas Dyce & Company, Solicitors,
57 Hunter Street, Newcastle, or their City
Agents, F. W. Hall & Cedric Cullen, Solicitors,
of 77 King Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA
Matrimonial Causes Act
MC 65 of 1962
BETWEEN
HENRI ELI RAYMOND ESTERBROOK,
Petitioner,
and
MARJORIE DAWN ESTERBROOK,
Respondent.
TO: MARJORIE DAWN ESTERBROOK
formerly of Hobart in Tasmania. TAKE
NOTICE that Henri Eli Raymond Esterbrook
has filed a Divorce Petition against you on
the grounds of desertion AND TAKE
FURTHER NOTICE that if you intend to
defend the Petition you must file an answer
within 28 days of the publication of this
notice at the Registry of the Supreme Court
of Tasmania, Macquarie Street, Hobart from
which address further information can be
obtained otherwise the Court may hear and
determine proceedings in your absence.
DATED this 28th day of May 1962. C. G.
BRETTINGHAM-MOORE, Registrar.
YAWNY COUNTRY
The Whole Land Brimstone. Anna
Langfus Collins 225. 6d.
The Country of Marriage. Jon Cleary
Collins 20s.
The Tenth Year of the Ship. Norman
Lewis Collins 20s.
Ton Cleary in “The Country of Marri-
** age,” writing of an elderly professional
and businessman who had missed the
First World War because he was too
young, and the Second because he was
too old for a commission and by then
had no wish to start in the ranks, says:
“He had remained a chairborne civilian
and it was one of the regrets of his life.
Like most men of abundant physical
energy, he would like to have had his
courage tested at least once. It was not
comforting to feel that he could have
proved a coward.”
, This, passage has its relevance to my
thinking about Anna Langfus’ “The
Whole Land Brimstone.” This, as its
publishers claim, is an “unashamedly
autobiographical” novel describing the
experiences of a young Polish-Jewish girl
during the German occupation of Poland.
Her parents and husband had always,
before this time, protected her from life’s
harshness or the need to assume respon-
sibility for anything.
Anna Langfus first published her
writing in Poland when she was fifteen.
She is highly gifted, a born writer.
Technically her novel is outstanding and
her translator, Peter Wiles, has done a
magnificent job. What she has to des-
cribe is truly frightful and might more
properly, for its dignity, passion and
ring of truth be compared with Ann
Frank’s Diary than with impertinent
vulgarities such as Leon Uris’ vaunted
“Mila 18.” Langfus’ heroine lived in the
Warsaw Ghetto; joined the Resistance;
her parents and young husband perished;
she was imprisoned by the Gestapo; she
surmounted her own selfishness and
cossetted nature without disguising, or
even abandoning, her faults. But despite
her honesty and accomplishment, reserv-
ations remain.
This, I am sure, is a book Anna
Langfus had to write. But ought it to
have been published? Is the audience
for this kind of account predominantly
composed of sensation seekers? Of
people who, like Jon Cleary’s elderly
gentleman (and most of us for that,
matter) never had their own courage and
integrity tested and therefore constantly
bite on the sore spot and wonder? I
cannot answer these questions, but if, as
I suspect, the reply to most of them is
“Yes” then the state of affairs smacks too
much of visits to Bedlam, public hang-
ings, sideshow freaks and mutilated
beggars.
“The Country of Marriage” is puny
by comparison with Langfus’ book—or
by most comparisons. Worse, it is in-
credibly boring. Apart from the diffi-
culty of being interested by the problems
of a garrulous group of materialistic
middle-class nonentities, its manner is,
if I may coin a word, “Yawny.” For
instance a chap called Adam wearies his
family by constantly cracking weak
jokes. Bad enough, but the reader has
to endure nearly all of his cornier efforts
to drive the point home. Then Adam and
his spouse, Belle, like to refer to their
double-bed as “the country of marriage”.
This explains the title and amuses when
first mentioned, but I hate to think how
many times one is reminded of their
cosy conceit throughout the book. Adam
is English, Belle is Australian. Belle’s'
Solicitor Dad has made a business for-
tune since the War. Now he and
Belle’s Mum arrive in England bent on
persuading Adam to emigrate to Austra-
lia so that he can work for the old man’s
empire instead of for the Bank of Eng-
land where he is happy in spite of meagre
pay. As Gavin Casey recently reminded
Thelma Forshaw in these pages, count-
less well-fed people are preoccupied
with problems like this, and their worries
make valid material for novelists. But
as Thelma Forshaw maintained; one can’t
quite forget the starving millions whose
ghosts peep over our - shoulders. Her
argument is no more constructive, of
course, than those that induce a child to
eat its rice-pudding because a famine-
struck Chinese would welcome it —but
illogic and all, this time I side with Miss
Forshaw
“The Tenth Day of the Ship” is not
the best of Norman Lewis. It is never-
theless a stylish and witty account of how
the twentieth century at last impinges
upon a sleepy island in the Canaries
group whose parvenu (inaugurated by a
Napoleonic-war profiteer) ruling family
have had a vested interest in maintaining
a feudal system. Land speculators, fishing
combines and consumer goods supersede
landed tyranny, peasant poverty and
ignorance.
Disappointment is inescapable—Lewis’
unique flavor and balance, his highly
individual talent, are not fully exemplified
here.
NANCY KESSING


Feiffer
"IDDK AT HIM,' THEM
i m 10 oam.
YRttlve MT OF THT
C^MPAfOM,"
THfc'M
TO OAM -
AW I USED TP sMil£
AMP BW MOR(f
WCK AMP MOVP
Em HIGHER.
"LOOK AT HIM,"
Them vsev tp
SAM'
AMP ALL THE THt Y
WERE LOOKIM6 AMP! IMAE> SMIUM6-
IfOSIPE ME A LITRE 1/OICf
TALKIM6 - <4WM£,
uhtfMet,
A LITRE 5A4/M6
*i\oO APE A FRAPP.
IRUJIM CORPULEMT.
THEY’RE
601M6 TP PIMP HOO
OUT AMP TAKE fT
ALL AIMAM."
I Magpncp Mth w little voice
dur it pipv't vo amp eooo. "JM
Houeer!" i SR&veo."i oeurvb
10 BF MERE 1 AMf''
OPT THF Ume VDIPF
juf>t repemev-
"9omv im'Re
601(J6 TO FIfJP MOP
OUT IRtO/fO CORPULENT.
somevha rmte
601 fJ6 TO TAMP IT
ALL AWALj."
I IGNORED i'C V'OifE. I iWvBTEI?
MORE f MADE A LOT OF MOWED.
3DT THE HI 6H€R l WEWT THE
4XAKIER I FELT. THEM OWE PAM
A COMMITTEE OF TOTAL
GTEAW6EE*? CAME Ip®
m (OFFICE • " WHAT
CAM I PD FDR MOD' 7 ”
I A6MEE! THHOKIM6
IT MI6HT BE AWOTHER
6000 CIfIZETJOWP
AIMARP.
" ofOU ARt A FRA UP, iPhM
CORPULENT," THEM 6AIP 10 Me.
♦WP HAVE MOU OUT
AMP laJE ARF TAKIM6 /T
ALL AWAM."
I CtfPtiGO 00'
AWP
l LEFT.
WHfM TH EH E\W
you our mo.
F/fJP wu our.
ijom wove.
The Bulletin Crossword No. 698
ACROSS
I—Roy Rene got out of bed, darkly moody, because
there’s nothing shown in code. (6)
4—A warmer service is to be expected of this victim
of slashing. (8)
•10—European who makes the French plot against the
German. (9)
11— Strings one behind a prison chamber. (5)
12— Quadruped who initiates every likely killing. (3)
13— Only just beginning, so measure grain for a start. (8)
14— From a king of Mercia. (4)
16—Serviceman what helps to hold a road surface? (3)
18— The first part of 13-across is but one forty-fifth of
this. (3)
19— A hundred or a private dog. (5)
20—Men suffering some reversal
in the middle of this prelude
to surgery. (5)
22 Yours in the change. (5)
23 Dodge to testify as to truth
of anything before tea. (5)
24 Manchester is often to be
located on this, though it’s
noted for lying. (3)
25 Like this right angle sun. (3)
26 Rule that there musn't be
any coppers in the orchestra.
(4)
27 A pound given to a marriage-
wrecker for a species of
tunny fish. (8)
28— Subverted conveyance. (3)
30—One hundred and four con-
fused an island off Greece.
(5)
32 They land a little business in
kitchenware. (9)
33 King in the same fight with
the gloves off. (4-4)
34 A critical time for an
Egyptian goddess in local
government. (6)
DOWN
1— Girl factory gets one coin. (9)
2 Rogue strikes to get Tdriess on
the phone. (11)
3 Marine fauna tightly close
the correspondence on love
pains. (3-7)
5—A marriage-wrecker has a
heart. (4)
6 Hudson stone. (4)
7 Implement of a cobbler wag-
ging it. (3)
8— Am associated with this
heath in a continent. (5)
9—Real idiot is composing this
leading article. (9)
15— Privateers who get a kick for
nothing. (11)
16— Flora includes this girl, yet 1
grill badly. (5, 4)
17— Who checks rest with one
taken away from Grace
Kelly’s husband. (10)
21—Speakers give these postal
guides. (9)
26—Features of any rodeo money.
(5)
28— It stops out of order. (3)
29 Offscourings. (4)
31—Or upset one foreign king.
(3)
Solution to Crossword No. 697


.. . . . Jl. !
■ ■ '
t
m
!
.y,--:. ■ . ;
hm& i
i SELECTED
BOTTLIN'..
CAWARRA
CLARET
UNOEMAN C?
SYDNEY
SS*T COKTM S*
ire «mi»*
LT-""
&SSSS:
: AWARR<\, RlESfi
P*£J&?££ «r
p** 6 **'
SELECTED VINT -■ pa-ygg ■ . 7^?^
HOCK „ L V.NE°« WJ
•Vn-. pfftiuv-. *»««■»* •' -'• 3: -“ : ■ ir: ' 3 *
ltd
CONTENTS .PT6f. jBSBgt. /i :
jg©:
A noble wine for a noble roast! Cawarra Claret, the most
popular red table wine in Australia, was selected exclusively
by the French Olympic Team on their visit to Melbourne.
When you choose white wine order Cawarra Riesling,
dry, delicate and delightful in every way.
/trvie
mavis
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST PRIZEWINNERS
