

The Bulletin
ONE SHILLING
JUNE 30
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
sgistered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
ART SCHOOLS IN AUSTRALIA • SOPHIE TUCKER-how to be young at 75 • MOTORING-by Boadicea
LONDON from J. D. Pringle • U.S.S.R. IN AUSTRALIA-the soft sell


SWIFT, QUIET
, Up®
COMFORT. . .WITH DISTINCTION
eechcraft BARON
CONTINENTAL ENGINES with Fuel injec-
tion for powerful, trouble-free performance
. . . giving rapid climb over terrain or
weather with unequalled quietness.
Y 4
V
m
4:
EASY LANDING ANYWHERE Sturdy, tri-
cycle landing gear, brings you in smoothly
anywhere. 30% more braking action for
quick stops. Fully retracted in flight.
4807
SEATS 5 IN COMFORT Plenty of room for
5 big people and their luggage. Adjustable
contoured seats provide comfort on long
trips. De luxe appointments throughout.
For information on local operating costs of
the Beechcraft Baron and a detailed cost
comparison with your present company trans-
port contact
the sole Australian Beechcraft Distributor:
DE HAVILLAND AIRCRAFT*
PTY. LTD.
P.O. Box 30, Bankstown, N.S.W.
Queensland Rep.: C. M. Loach, Hangar 4. Areherfield.
Brisbane. Phone: 47-1311
Slh. Australian Reps.: J. B. Ragg and M. Mannakee. Govi.
Aerodrome. Parafield, Adelaide. Phone: 623-549
Victorian Rep.: Brookes Aviation Pty. Ltd.. Moorabbin
Airport, Victoria. Phone: 90-4041
N. Territory Rep.: Connellan Airways Limited. Townsite
Aerodrome. Alice Springs, N.T. Phone: Alice Springs 19
* A Member Company of the Hawker-Siddelev Group.


ATHOL TOWNLEY Page 9
The Four Corners Interview
•
USSR Propaganda—The Soft Sell
in Queensland 12
The Great Migration—From J. ;D. ' -
Pringle 15
Teaching Artists How —A Look at
Our Art Schools 17
Sophie Tucker—“lf I Like Them...” 19
“I Flew Mit Der Luftwaffe...” .... 20
Germany—Atomic Offer to France 23
Hong Kong—Refugees in the Padis 24
John Anderson—Letters and a
Summing Up 27
Boadicea—Golden Age of Motoring
Writers 31
Bergman’s the Magician—By Martin
Long 32
Intimations of Immorality—Alex-
ander Macdonald 38
A Look at 1962-1963 41
The New Companies Act 45
9
NATIONAL NOTEBOOK 4
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
AROUND SYDNEY 9
LONDON NEWSLETTER 14
OUT AND ABOUT 19
LETTERS 21
OVERSEAS 23
AROUND MELBOURNE 26
FORUM 27
MOTORING 31
REVIEWS 32
RED PAGE 36
WILD CAT 40
MAN ON THE LAND 58
AIR INDUSTRY SURVEY 60
FEIFFER 71
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY LTD
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George St., Sydney
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521: Phone 27-5971
Melbourne: Phone MF 3341. Brisbane: Phone
B 2691. Adelaide: Phone W 4121-3
Vol. 84
No. 4298
UNDERSTANDING IN WASHINGTON
the dazzling official welcome extended to Mr Menzies in
Washington, and the reassuring communique issued after his talks
with President Kennedy and key members of the US Administration, it
seems obvious that the basic American outlook on terms on which
Britain should join the European Economic Community has not
radically changed.
The Prime Minister’s statement after his return to Canberra points
to his reluctant acceptance of the fact that preferences cannot be saved.
Any other arrangements to compensate Australia will have to depend on
President Kennedy’s largesse in exercising his vast tariff powers in
respect of such Australian exports as wool, zinc and lead.
Speaking with rather more than usual gravity, which provided a
stark contrast to his earlier outspoken appearances on British TV, Mr
Menzies insisted that the UK’s decision to enter the Common Market
is now by no means certain—although he did stress his reasonable
conviction that Mr Macmillan and his cabinet are greatly swayed by the
ultimate political advantages of Britain’s entry into EEC. A conviction
confirmed in the light of Mr Macmillan’s statement to a Conservative
party rally last Saturday that the UK’s entry into the EEC “would
strengthen both Britain and the Commonwealth”. Mr Macmillan added
that Britain’s close association with the leading European nations in the
Common Market would make “an enormous addition to our strength
and that of the Continent . It is significant that Mr Macmillan made
this statement almost at the same time as Mr Menzies was having his
Press conference in Canberra.
1%/TR MENZIES’ trip overseas was not a happy one. Following closely
on Mr McEwen s eloquent pleas backed with convincing technical
arguments, in Washington and in Europe, the Prime Minister had
obviously attempted to shift the whole argument on to a purely political
plane and point out that Britain s entry into the EEC without adequate
safeguards for Australia, and other Commonwealth primary producers,
would not be worthwhile because of its political effects on the Common-
wealth. It is now obvious that this line of argument proved as
unsuccessful in London as it did in Washington, despite the very
considerable degree of sympathy it had aroused in England.
Britain s final decision will depend on whether the conditions of
entry will be judged satisfactory to her own economy. There will still be
a good deal of bargaining going on on both sides of the Atlantic, and it
would be imprudent to take all the tactical shifts at face value.
The United States is clearly determined that Britain should join.
It is also clear that it is opposed to any formula preserving Common-
wealth preferences after 1970. But Mr Menzies did score a major point
in Washington. President Kennedy now seems to agree that some
form of compensation for Australia and Britain’s other Commonwealth
trading partners is necessary, and that the United States will finally
have to abandon preaching free trade abroad and practising protec-
tionism at home and open its markets to a greater extent to exports likely
to be displaced by the UK’s entry into the Common Market.


National
Notebook
The Dobell cover
T>ill Dobell’s fine portrait of Professor
John Anderson on our cover is not
for sale!
It was commissioned of Mr Dobell
by the John Anderson Testimonial Fund
which w'as set up soon after Professor
Anderson retired from the Challis Chair
of Philosophy at Sydney University in
1959.
The painting was completed a few
weeks ago and formally presented to the
University.
The fund—which w'ill also finance the
publication within the next few weeks of
a book of Professor Anderson's principal
philosophic papers—was comprised of
contributions by hundreds of Professor
Anderson's admirers and former scholars.
Getting Everything Upside
Down
VI/’e were browsing through our copy of
“World Student New's”, which is
printed in Czechoslovakia, when on the
back of an interview w'ith Simone de
Beauvoir we came across an account by
Alexander Lebedev, one of three Soviet
students who visited Australia, of their
trip here. The piece begins with Jules
Verne's description of the country W'here
“everything was upside down” and “the
people walk head down,” so it is obvious
that the students had brought themselves
right up to date about Australia before
coming here.
The students visited nine universities.
Lebedev speaks warmly and generously
of their hosts and the Russians appear
to have enjoyed themselves. However,
Lebedev has the infuriating habit of
comparing costs between the two coun-
tries without giving relative incomes. He
says that a hostel for university students
in Melbourne is “often as high as £5
a week” whereas in Moscow it is 1J
roubles a month. Lebedev said that when
the Russians gave this information
"there would usually ensue a rumble of
surprise.” How'ever, \\ roubles a month
is quite a meaningless figure, without
knowing what the student's full allow-
ance is.
Lebedev reports that after addressing
students at Perth University the first
question from the audience was: “And
h ow are things with the working class
in your country?” The question, Lebedev
says, was put in a “jocular, or rather
slightly ironical form”. However, that is
a question which we doubt ever got
asked, even in a jocular, or rather,
slightly ironical form.
Who's For a Zoo
Darwin is having its greatest verbal
barney since the “stayput” Malayans.
The Northern Territory Zoological
Society is agitating for control over a
section of the Botanical Gardens to make
"a showcase for local fauna”, displaying
buffaloes, dingoes, crocodiles, donkeys,
snakes, parrots and maybe even a
wild camel from the Simpson Desert.
But when the City Council’s parks
and gardens committee recommended
that the zoo plan be agreed to “in princi-
ple,” the storm burst. Councillor Dudley
Brandon, lean, humorless, and dedicated,
said that zoos degraded not only the
animals, but the humans who went to
look at them. “In this time and age
nobody is entitled to confine animals and
birds in cages,” he said. “Who wants to
look at a couple of mangy old emus and
a dirty old buffalo wallowing in a lot
of mud? The proper place for anybody
to see w'ild animals is in game sanctuar-
ies, such as have been established in
various parts of the Territory.”
The president of the NT Zoological
Society, Mr S. Fisher described Cr
Brandon’s claims as “ridiculous”.
"Animals live a darn sight longer and
happier under zoo conditions,” he said,
invoking the sacred (in zoo circles) name
of Taronga Park to prove his point.
The battle was joined. Darwin seems
about evenly divided. One letter to the
"NT News” painted a moving word
picture of Dad and the kids” enjoying
their Sunday afternoon at the zoo. An-
other suggested, as an alternative, cag-
ing in the football oval so “Dad and the
kids could watch Darw'in’s carnivorous
soccer players instead. As yet the issue
is umesolved. But the betting is that
Darwin will have its zoo before the year
is out.
Something for nothing
Qur favorite story of this and almost
V ar, y week is of the boy from the
bush who saw a flat advertised in
Sydney: No rent, no gas, no electricity.
Even he was a hit sceptical, but urged
on by a trusting wile, went and investi-
gated.
They have now just moved into a
four-bedroomcd flat in a seaside suburb,
15 minutes by bus from the heart of
the city. For this they are paying no
rent and gas and electricity are pro-
vided free.
The flat is above a shop and is a
manager's residence. However, the
manager has her own home, did not
want to move, but felt that the flat
should be occupied. She said there were
few applicants. Some people may have
thought that "‘no gas and electricity”
meant there was no power or light, not
that no charges were to be made for
them, and that a flat without gas and
electricity would not be much. How-
ever, we believe it is just that nobody
in Sydney believes you can get anything
for nothing.
To be held in Trust
'J'he National Trust, substantially
backed by the Tasmanian Govern-
ment, has been able to accept the gift
from Mrs W. R. Menzies of Clarendon,
perhaps the most noble of all Australia’s
pre-1840 mansions. Restoration, furn-
ishing and maintenance will involve heavy
expenditure, but the asset is almost price-
less.
Clarendon, 20 miles south-east of Laun-
ceston, on a bend of the South Esk River,
was taken up by James Cox, son of Cap-
tain William Cox, of the NSW Corps,
who built the first road across the Blue
Mountains in 1815. James, born in Eng-
land in 1790, accompanied his father to
Sydney in 1800. He visited Tasmania in
1814, and w'hile staying with Thomas
Archer at Woolmers fell in love with
the countryside over which he rode on
emu hunts. James Cox applied for an
adjoining grant, and when he took it up
in 1819 he called it Clarendon, after his
father’s home in NSW.
In 1837, to plans prepared in England,
and w'ith sandstone quarried 30 miles
aw'ay, Clarendon House was built. It was
a great American Colonial-style struc-
ture, w'ith a wide colonnaded portico
right across its front. The house took
some seven years to build and cost a then
enormous <£20,000. It w'as described as
“the nearest approach in early Austra-
lian architecture to the Southern man-
sions of colonial days in the US”.
Behind its vast coach-house were 10
double-storied apartments for estate
employees. Such things, a visitor re-
marked, were “rare enough on an English
estate, and unique in colonial Australia.”
In all, Clarendon House and its satel-
lite cottages and apartments accommoda-
ted some 150 persons, forming a village


in themselves for those who worked on
the 40,000 acres which Cox ultimately
acquired. For seaside relaxation he built
Marion Villa, which still stands on the
seafront near George Town, at the mouth
of the Tamar. There he kept a six-oared
whaleboat.
To the wild bush and alien mountains
of his estate he brought deer from Brit-
ain, so that the squire and his friends
might enjoy the hunt with hounds
earlier imported to chase outlandish
kangaroos. And, on the practical side,
he bought sheep from the original Mac-
arthur flock at Camden.
But Clarendon was already a shadow
of itself when it was cut up for soldier
settlers’ farms after World War 1.
The great house and its surroundings
were acquired some 20 years ago by
Mr W. R. Menzies, a Launceston busi-
nessman and Tasmania’s leading blood-
stock breeder. It lived on as a stud, and
the sanctuary of deer and other animals,
until Mr Menzies’s death.
A little less pneumatic
'C'alstaff is the word that springs to
A mind, but it won’t do, because Ameri-
can Norman Foster is Falstaff. A little
less pneumatic off stage, than in the
Elizabethan production of the Verdi
opera, but still a comfortable figure of
a man. Mr Foster has lived and sung in
Vienna for eight years, and has become
so European in manner and outlook that
his English is slightly broken.
Nevertheless, he managed to make
clear to us that he was not interested in
the dimensions of the stage of the Sydney
Opera house, but felt we didn’t realise
what interest and excitement the build-
ing was creating in Europe, or what atten-
tion would be paid to what took place in
the building after it was finished.
Mr Foster, although an expatriate, be-
lieves that in the 10 years since he left
the United States it has changed from a
cultural wilderness to a real nursery of
talent.
“Do you know there are 10 cities with
opera seasons each year now,” he said,
“and by seasons I mean anything longer
than four months. They even have opera
in Texas now.
“You would be surprised at the differ-
ence the Kennedys have made. Since they
moved into the White House and began
asking people like Casals there, it
suddenly becomes right for people to be
interested in culture. There has to be
that encouragement from the top. There
will have to be encouragement from the
top here, too, if you are going to build
opera audiences. Another factor in
America is that music, and even opera
itself, is now a course at many universi-
ties. That is when you get people in-
terested. Afterwards may be too late.”
Foster said that more imaginative
production was creating renewed interest
in opera in Europe. “When you get film-
producers like Visconti producing opera,
you begin to see what it can be,” he
said.
Tanner
"THEY'RE TAKING THE COMMON MARKET TOO FAR, HAVING THE QUEEN MEET THE
COMMON PEOPLE!"


This Australia
THE MENZIES TOUR
-A SUMMING-UP
As I see it
FROM ALAN REID
PRESIDENT KENNEDY
A realist
Tf the recent
1 Menzies
odyssey
achieved nothing more (and I think it
achieved much more) it compelled those
involved in the ECM negotiations to do
some rethinking. That rethinking is going
on in London, Washington and Brussels,
headquarters of the negotiations between
the ECM six and Britain as a would-be
member of the six.
Whatever else might be said, constant
rethinking of problems involved in this
issue is, as I see it, essential. If Britain
finally decides to join ECM the world
afterwards, whether a better or worse
world, will be a different one. Millions
of lives will be affected. Living standards
for the ordinary people in many countries
will either improve or deteriorate.
Prior to Mr Menzies’ visit to London
and Washington, the negotiations seemed
to have settled into a pattern. The “big
boys” in London and Washington had
made the decision that it was in the poli-
tical interests of the western world that
Britain should go into ECM.
Against this broad background of the
decision that it was in the interests of the
western world politically to have Britain
NEXT WEEK'S ISSUE
• THE BEAUTY BUSINESS—
Cover Story.
• SOUTH AFRICAN NEWS-
LETTER—When the Rot Sets
In.
• POPULATION EXPLOSION
—lt’s Worst in our Near North.
• COMPULSORY UNIONISM
—How Far Has it Got?
• AS I SEE IT—Alan Reid.
in ECM the bureaucrats came into their
own. They were left to work out the
detailed terms. They settled down to
work them out on an almost purely
economic basis.
Menzies’ London and Washington
intervention suddenly reminded those
ultimately responsible for the negotiations
that they were dealing not merely with
things but with people and that the broad
high level decision that it was in the
interests of the western world to have
Britain in ECM was not the final decision
after which the details could be safely
left to the bureaucrats. That decision,
however accurate, was too broad a direc-
tive. The issues involved were so impor-
tant and complex that they demanded
further consequential decisions at the
highest level.
If you look coldly at what Menzies
has achieved over the past month of quite
delicate political manoeuvre in Washing-
ton and London he has succeeded in
having complete control of the negotia-
tions now proceeding taken out of the
hands of the bureaucrats and restored
to a higher level.
The bureaucrats were inflexible as
bureaucrats are so prone to be. The ECM
bureaucrats were insistent that Common-
wealth preferences (to which some Aus-
tralian industries owe not only their pros-
perity but their very existence) would
be “phased out” by 1970. The United
States bureaucrats, despite the advantage
to the United States of having Britain in
Europe so as to strengthen Europe’s capa-
city for defence and thereby relieve the
strain upon the American taxpayer, made
no effort to help Britain get terms that
would enable it to honor its Common-
wealth commitments. In fact they did the
opposite. They adhered rigidly to the
doctrinal view to which America has
been committed for years that Com-
monwealth preferences were inimical to
the well-being of the western world.
Menzies’ achievement was that he
restored consideration of the issues
involved in ECM back to the political
level. He demonstrated in London that
he could make it politically impossible
for the Macmillan Government to carry
Britain into ECM if he came out strongly
at the Commonwealth Prime Ministers’
London conference in September against
the terms on which Britain could enter
ECM, if those terms involved a com-
plete sacrifice of Commonwealth interests.
He also produced some rethinking in
America. There is value in this. It is
much easier to get a change or modifica-
tion of a policy at the top than from
bureaucrats who are not subjected to poli-
tical pressures and hence more deter-
mined upon their preconceptions. There
is no sign of any bureaucratic insistence
in President Kennedy’s communique after
his discussions with Menzies upon the
doctrinal approach that safeguarding of
Commonwealth trading interests are
inimical to the well-being of the western
world. In fact there are signs that Presi-
dent Kennedy, a realist, views it as more
important to have Britain in ECM than
to maintain the purity of this American
economic doctrine. Kennedy has now
agreed to have a commodity by com-
modity examination of the items of Aus-
tralian trade likely to be affected by
Britain’s entry into ECM. In other words
there has been quite a bit of rethinking.
SPORT
SLAUGHTER ON LAKE EUCUMBENE
FROM MIKE MOONIE IN WANGARATTA
T'he most exciting 20 miles of trout
stream in Australia a*.d possibly
in the world is threatened. Outraged
fishermen are up in arms about it. The
stream is the Eucumbene River which
jumped into sudden prominence when
the Snowy Mountains project’s largest
dam began backing it up five years ago.
The Eucumbene had always been
noted for good fishing. But as the arti-
ficial lake spread over thousands of
acres of grazing country the trout lived
literally on the fat of the land and
grew at a fantastic rate. Fishermen by


the thousand poured in each season to
gain material for the fish stories of a
lifetime.
This year, grumbles about the effects
of big catches grew into action which
has made normally unflappable fisher-
men bounce like a foul-hooked five-
pounder. An application was made to
the NSW Fisheries Department for year-
round closure of the river to fishing of
any kind.
The application came from the
Monaro Fish Acclimatisation Society
which has, for many years, bred trout
for release in Snowy Mountains streams.
It claimed that trout were being “slaught-
ered” in the Eucumbene River, the major
breeding stream feeding the lake, and
expressed fears that eventually this would
seriously deplete the fish population.
The claim is, up to a point, correct
—but only up to a point. There have
been exorbitant catches on the stream.
Greedy, so-called sportsmen, have been
caught stumbling along the banks lugg-
ing bulging sugarbags of trout; there
have been many instances of the use of
explosives in deep pools; and there was
certainly wholesale slaughter last year
when the opening of the season found
thousands of rainbow trout packed tightly
on the gravel beds to spawn. But these
abuses could be curbed by increasing
the force of fishing inspectors (at pres-
ent, one officer is expected to police
the entire Eucumbene system, and a
good deal of other country as well) and
possibly by adjusting the date of open-
ing the season.
There is certainly a slaughter as great,
and indeed very much greater, occurring
in the lake and a killed fish is just
as dead, and just as unable to spawn if
landed from the lake as when grassed
along the river.
Whether the slaughter is really dam-
aging is far from proven. In biological
surveys, gill-netting in the lake has con-
sistently returned nearly two tons of
fish, averaging four pounds in weight
per fish, at each test. A biologist who
has studied the Eucumbene system for
years has been quoted as favoring com-
mercial fishing in the lake for two
months of each year to take off the
excess portion of the vast fish crop. And
at the end of the 1961-62 season, in
one river pool alone, I saw a school of
massive trout numbering between 60 and
100, mostly females and with an effec-
tive reproduction capacity of probably
about 20,000 fish this winter.
These do not sound like symptoms
of depopulation, and the fact that the
Eucumbene River has, in recent years,
carried enormous numbers of young,
undersized fish as well as monsters
makes the closure advocates’ claims ring
hollow. There have been some dark
hints that the move for the closure
originated from business interests close
to the lake in Cooma and Adaminaby
who hated to see some prospective cus-
tomers heading for the mountains and
straying from the cash registers.
Latest information is that amateur
fishing interests and the Kosciusko State
Park Trust, which controls much of the
land through which the river flows, have
asked the Fisheries Department not to
be hasty. The department has agreed
not to act until a thorough investigation
has been made. It may have glimpsed
troubled waters ahead if it sets a prece-
dent which could eventually result in the
closure of hundreds of miles of rivers
above dams. This would bring down on
it the ire of fishermen who, naving paid
their licence fees, would find themselves
excluded from the State’s choicest trout
streams.
NO MAN AN ISLAND
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
MORRIS WEST
"A dung-hill”
HThe Macquarie Broadcasting Theatrette
was crowded. There was a sprinkle
of furs among the duffle-coats, but on the
whole it was a young audience. A big
photo of Jack beamed down on to the
auditorium where once he reigned as King
of Quiz. Muzak played softly. On stage,
there were chairs for the distinguished
men who would speak about immigra-
tion reform. At the Press table the
Sydney papers, the Hong Kong “Mail”
and the Straits “Times” . . . and a gentle-
man from “The Rock”, who was heard
to ask suspiciously about Catholic partici-
pation.
At 8 o’clock they came on stage, secre-
tary and chairman, and three speakers;
the Right Rev. J. S. Moyes clad in
Bishop’s garb, legalist Professor Julius
Stone, and then after a little gap famous
author Morris West, darting winged
glances and looking like some bulky
prophet from out of the wilderness.
With admirable brevity, the chairman
summed up the situation, the changing
climate of opinion, the need for reform.
And then, messages of congratulation
came from Premier Heffron, Opposition
leader Askin, Sydney University Vice-
Chancellor Roberts, and many clerics.
Archbishop Gough sent along a rep. and
so did the Presbyterian Church.
Then His Grace the Bishop of Armi-
dale stepped right up to the mike. He
said we were an isolated people, a white
outpost of European civilisation in the
heart of the South Seas. Our natural
increase and our immigration policies
have failed to produce the population we
need to make something of this great
island continent. We need a vast increase
in migrant intake. Presumably, they must
come from Asia. But we are prejudiced
against color and we are afraid of mixed
marriages. We should not be afraid of
mixed marriages. St Paul was against the
color bar.
When His Grace finished, Morris West
the famous author, who was introduced
as a Fellow of the Royal Society of
Literature, stepped right up, and fixed
the audience with his gaze.
There is a natural order at the root
of all things, he said. The great mile-
stones of history are affirmations of this
L aw —the French Revolution and all the
rest of them. They are the birth pains,
they are the growing pains of man’s
upward struggle from the primeval slime.
Hypnotic, compelling, his voice urged
them along. Mr West said he refused to
debate the proposition that there are no
second class souls. “If this is so, we are
ants crawling over a dung-hill.”
Finally Mr West said, no man is an
island. Amid thunderous applause, he sat
down, looking drained but fulfilled.
Julius Stone stepped right up, and the
slow, low, ironic voice began, praising but
denigrating, agreeing but gainsaying, ana-
lysing, pointing out practical issues. Soon
it all seems so unexceptionable as to be
self-evident.
Then came question time. Somebody
talked until he was gonged-off by the
chairman. He was followed by a few
more, but there were really no questions.
Everyone was in agreement. His Grace
put the motion to form the NSW Associa-
tion for Immigration Reform, pledged to
work for a change in our policy so that it
will no longer exclude people on the basis
of race or color. There were no protests.
Willingly the people filled in their appli-
cation forms and headed for the foyer to
pay their subs. Muzak played softly. A
notice announced that Bobby and Dawn
were playing the Mobilshow tomorrow
. . . No man is an island. . . .


ABORIGINES
"THE WORST CASE
SINCE THE WAR"?
FROM KEITH WILLEY IN DARWIN
JUDGE BRIDGE
“The Queen’s Justice”
A n obscure assault case heard at
Rankine River on the Barkly Table-
lands last November could turn into one
of the worst advertisements for race
relations in the Northern Territory
since the war. A Justice of the Peace,
hearing charges against two aboriginal
stockmen said to have struck a white
jackeroo, is alleged to have said during
an adjournment that “natives have to
be kept under the thumb”. In the
course of the hearing he also is alleged
to have said that “being called black
bastards is not sufficient cause to strike
a white man”.
Kevin John Flynn, Superintendent of
Special Schools for NT Administration,
made the allegations in an affidavit
placed before Mr Justice Bridge in the
Supreme Court, Darwin. The affidavit
was put in during action aimed at
quashing convictions against aborigines
Pluto Warramungomono and Sydney
Gowinji.
Gowinji was gaoled for two months
and Warramungomono one month for
assaulting Richard Kingsford Smith at
Soudan, an out-station of Alexandria
Downs. On the bench at Rankine River
were Mr W. E. H. Young, manager of
Alexandria Downs, and Mr A. B.
Richardson, bookkeeper of adjoining
Avon Downs station. Mr Young’s
daughter, Mrs Chalk, took the court
depositions.
Immediately after that case applica-
tion was made for writs of certiorari
claiming that:
® The court was improperly constituted.
• The convictions were contrary to
natural justice.
® One or both Justices of the Peace
was biased.
In his affidavit Flynn said he was at
Rankine River with the District Wel-
fare Officer (Mr F. C. Allom) on the
day the natives were tried. Flynn claimed
Richardson had acted as “spokesman
for the court” and during the hearing
had made the following comments:
® “Welfare Branch is to blame for the
attitude of the blacks.”
® “One minute they are being feted and
the next minute kicked around.”
@ “Being called a black bastard is not
sufficient cause to strike a white
man.”
® “Calling each other bastards does not
mean a thing in Australia.”
Flynn claimed that it was during an
adjournment that Richardson had said
that “part-colored people have the worst
qualities of both races” and “natives
should be kept under the thumb”.
During the hearing, Flynn alleged,
Richardson had said from the bench:
“You ask these fellows a question and
they say ‘yes’. You ask them again and
they say ‘no’.” He claimed Richardson
also said: “Being told one needed a kick
in the backside is something of which
no one would take much notice in Aus-
tralia”. According to Flynn, Richardson
often cross-examined witnesses and
asked them leading questions to elicit
evidence unfavorable to the accused.
Flynn told Mr Justice Bridge that
Young did not say much during the
lower court hearing. But he was the em-
ployer of jackeroo Smith and the two
natives. The depositions were taken by
Mrs Chalk, Young’s daughter and wife
of the station’s assistant manager.
Mr Justice Bridge said the allegations
made against Richardson were “serious”.
According to the affidavit he had made
remarks which were “grossly indiscreet,
undignified and foolish”. Men should not
be dealt with differently because of the
color of their skins, the judge said. “The
Queen’s justice must be dispensed to
white and black alike”.
Mr John Gallop of the Crown Law
Office, appearing on behalf of the two
JPs, said Smith and Sydney Gowinji had
an argument over tailing some cattle and
Smith told the native he needed a kick
in the backside. Sydney had attacked
Smith with two pieces of wood. Eventu-
ally Smith overcame Sydney and left him
lying on the ground. “He apparently gave
him quite a hiding”, said Mr Gallop.
Later that day Pluto Warramungomono,
a tribal relation of Sydney, had called
Smith a “white bastard” and told him:
“You fought my mate. Now come and
have a go at me”. Sydney also came on
the scene. They both attacked Smith and
had him on the ground when another
stockman arrived with a rifle and broke
up the fight, Mr Gallop said. He claimed
there was nothing in the court record
to show injustice had been done. The
only evidence of this was Flynn’s af-
fidavit. There were three remarks said
to have been made by Richardson which
could show bias. However, these would
take on a different complexion in an-
other context. The affidavit had nothing
in it to show in what context the remarks
had been made.
Referring to Young’s role as employer
of the three men involved in the hearing,
it was said any objection to this
should have been made at the time. It
was too late now for the natives to claim
Young could have been biased on this
ground, when they were prepared to
take the risk at the original hearing.
Mr Justice Bridge said it was unfortunate
Young had sat on the bench, even if he
didn’t transgress in any way. It was un-
fortunate someone else could not have
been chosen. He said he would ask for
a report from Richardson and adjourned
the case to a date to be fixed.
TWO WAYS TO BE SAVED
July 1, 1882
Tf any average sinner should go to
A heaven by becoming a member of
the Salvation Army he will have the
dubious satisfaction of going to the
happy land in very curious company.
The stories the saints tell about their
past lives are quite equal to anything
in the “London Journal”.
One brother said: “I used to go
to public-houses, and stand on my
head on the table, and play my concer-
tina, and dance with my feet against
the ceiling, but I am saved now.”
“Captain” Beaty was so thirsty that he
used to “kick his wife round the room,
and knock her down with chairlegs.”
The Army is so successful, and
money pours in so freely that there
are now rivals in the field. Another
army has been started called “King
Jesu’s Army,” but of course “General”
Booth promptly calls the rival com-
mander an impostor, and cautions his
own “converted clowns”, and “happy
bakers”, and ‘devil wallopers”, to have
nothing to do with the opposition
show.


TELEVISION
THE TOWNLEY TOUCH
Mr Minister, you have
been quoted as saying on your re-
turn, that we must re-think our relations
with Indonesia. What do you mean by
that?
Townley: Well, I think that in Aus-
tralia we are inclined to forget all about
this people of 100 million who after all
are our nearest neighbors, and I think
we must remember that there are vast
opportunities there, providing that these
people can be kept friendly to us. On
the other hand, if they should be in-
fluenced by communists or other people
of that sort, it would make a tremendous
difference to this country in the years
to come. I don’t mean this week, or
next week, but in the next hundred
years, thousand years, if you like.
Charlton: What’s made you change
your mind about this?
Townley: Well, I don’t think I have
changed my mind. I have always
thought that they are an important
people to us. This is mainly because I
have had contact I think with their
Embassy people in Canberra and with
their students who are here under
Colombo Plan.
Charlton: But our policies towards
Indonesia have been fairly well estab-
lished for some time, and well known
and you did say on your return that
we must re-think them. That’s why I
asked you what’s made you change your
mind.
Townley: I wasn’t thinking about our
official policy. I think that’s always
been fairly well understood, both by us
and by the people there. I was thinking
more in terms of the ordinary people
of Indonesia and the ordinary people of
Australia.
Charlton: You foresee, or you wouldn’t
like to see any change in our official
policy at the moment?
Townley: No. I can see no harm in
making friends with any people. Par-
ticularly those who live next door to us.
Charlton: Do you feel that we are
doing that now?
Townley: Well, I think there is room
for improvement.
Charlton: Do you think we should
step up this policy of official visits, visits
like your own, at that level?
Townley: Well, what I had in mind
more was private visits by private people
—commercial people, and so on.
Charlton: Mr Minister, you said on
your return that you had a most extra-
ordinary welcome in Indonesia. Could
you tell us about that?
Townley: Yes, that is quite so, it was
an extraordinary welcome. Wherever I
went, and I was accompanied by about
a group of seven or eight other Aus-
tralians Service officers and people
from the Embassy and the reaction
when the Australian flag was seen was
quite extraordinary.
Charlton: That surprised you, did it?
Townley: Well, it did. I didn’t expect
quite that sort of reception. I thought
that they would be friendly, of course,
but there were smiles and an obvious
enthusiasm in the welcome. Not just in
the big cities, but out in villages and
markets where we stopped.
Charlton: You feel that this is a very
genuine expression of feeling, do you,
This is the transcript of Michael
Charlton’s interview with Defence
Minister Athol Townley on ABN’s
FOUR CORNERS session, June 16.
Because of the lively interest it pro-
voked we publish it in full.
and not just something that was laid on
for your visit?
Townley: No, well I thought it was
and naturally it was such a strong im-
pression that I got that I asked some
of the Australian business men, who
have been in business up there for some
years, and our service people who have
been there for years, if this was the
common sort of reaction and they said
“Yes”.
Charlton: Now you also said that the
Indonesians were too courteous to raise
the question of West New Guinea with
you. I was wondering, did you raise it
with them?
Townley: Well, only to the extent that
I restated our policy which is pretty
well understood by them, but they didn’t
bring it up and want me to talk about it.
Charlton: Well, why was that?
Townley: Well, it may have been
various reasons, it might have just been
just courtesy, it might have been that
they know that Sir Garfield Barwick,
who after all is the man who handles
these things is due there in a week or
two, and, I don’t know if they didn’t
want to embarrass me. In any case it
was no embarrassment. We have stated
our policy, which is clear and firm, they
understand it and I merely referred to it
in a conversation with Dr Djuanda,
their first minister, and he was talking
about the... I asked him what he
thought their big problem was, he said
he thought their biggest problem in
Indonesia was the financial one, and I
said that I could hardly think that they
would clean this problem up until such
times as their military expenditure could
be reduced somewhat, and he agreed.
Charlton: Did you get any impression
of a.n invasion in the near future, any
stepping up in this?
Townley: No, I didn’t. Of course I
was 2000 miles away from West New
Guinea and I did see Dr Soekarno at his
request, he asked me to call, I was
there a few minutes, he referred to
Mr Menzies’ visit and how Mr Menzies
disliked the heat. He told me that his
doctor had ordered him to play golf,
he thought that was unnecessary as he
was out in his garden every morning at
5.30 to get exercise.
Charlton: Was it that kind of a con-
versation entirely, or did you speak
about more specific issues?
Townley: No. And then he told me
that he had a private zoo and that was
the end of that conversation.
Charlton: Now during your inspec-
tion, Sir, of units of the Indonesian
Army. As you know this has received a
lot of publicity, which I imagine that
you can’t be liking, on your return.
What did happen up there from your
point of view?
Townley: Well, it’s not a matter of
liking or not liking, I thought it was such
a futile sort of thing. I was there for
six days and one day, for two hours,
I went to an Army jungle training camp
that I had been recommended to see if
I could, by Lt.-Gen. Pollard, our Chief-
of-Staff, who was up there in November.
The day before I had got my clothes
into a terrible mess in another place and
the local chap suggested that I get a
tailor in, who would knock me up some-
thing far more suitable, in a very short
time. You know how these people in
the East can make you a suit of clothes
in a few minutes, and a chap came out
and measured me. He asked me what
I wanted, I said I wanted a pair of
trousers and some sort of a bush shirt
that would hang outside my trousers for
coolness and that’s exactly what he made
me.
Charlton: Sir, could you tell me why
you wore your service ribbons? Do you
feel looking back on it this may have
been an unwise move?
Townley: No, I don’t think it was
myself. I don’t think that at all. Well,
up there in Indonesia, it’s very difficult
for them to understand that a Minister
for Defence is a civilian. That is one
thing. This particular place was an
Army camp, up in the jungle and away
from everybody, only Army people
there and the Service people who were
there with me said it mightn’t be a bad
idea if you let these people know that
you yourself have got a war service,
that you’re not a civilian. You can’t
wear ribbons on your ordinary clothes
that you’ve been wearing.
Charlton: No.


Around Sydney
THE UNDERGROUND COMPLEX
since our ancestors buried the
Tank Stream, Sydney’s civic
fathers seem to have had an obsession
to tunnel this city down to its under-
ground beginnings. The tunnelling
business really got going with an un-
derground railway back in 1926. The
railway was supposed to circle the
entire city, but despite our rulers’
enthusiasm for subterranean activity,
it took about 30 years to get the sec-
tion of the railway to Circular Quay
finished, completing the circuit. In the
meantime, the tunnellers had built
some dark, dank, damp caverns to
give passengers access to the under-
ground stations.
The tunnelling bug really caught on
when someone decided that we should
have an underground railway out to
the Eastern Suburbs. A warren of
holes was planned to take the populace
home to their red-brick villas by the
seashore. The job would cost a cool
£44 million.
In 1949 the jack-hammers began
chewing into earth and rock under the
Domain and down near Central Rail-
way. The planners looked on with
delight.
But by 1954, well over £2 million
had been spent, and no one seemed
to be getting very far. So the entran-
ces to those tunnels were boarded up,
and we looked around for some easier
underground projects.
The City Council found the perfect
spot: College Street between Hyde
Park and St. Mary’s Cathedral. The
fact that this was one of the city’s most
unlikely spots for a pedestrian tunnel
(except on Sundays, of course) didn’t
seem to worry anyone. Away went
the workmen merrily. Months and
about £40,000 later, the St. Mary’s
tunnel was ceremoniously opened. But
to the dismay of the planners, no one
used it except occasional do-it-your-
self characters who prized off most of
the wall’s tiles for their bathrooms at
home.
Despite pleading signs to “Please
use the subway”, the people of Sydney
decided it was easier to take their
chances with the traffic on College
Street rather than plunge down the 26
steps into the tunnel, along its gloomy
length and up the 24 steps at the other
end. It was also quicker 25 seconds
as against 70 seconds according to my
timing the other day.
Undismayed by this failure, Sydney’s
City Council has now dreamed up
schemes for a couple of new pedestrian
tunnels, one as an extension of the
College Street hole under Hyde Park
to St. James station and the other a
two - pronged job under Druitt and
George Streets outside the Town Hall.
The extension job would cost about
£60,000, and the Town Hall hole
probably half as much again.
Aldermen said the tunnel under
Hyde Park would save people from
getting wet on their way to and from
the Domain parking station though
a couple of people wrote to the papers
saying they’d rather brave the occa-
sional shower than tramp along some
dark underground cavern. The idea
for the Town Hall subway was
dreamed up by an alderman who said
he d almost been knocked over cros-
sing George Street to the Town Hall
although he, too, ignored protests
that the Town Hall railway station
already provides an underground route
under George Street.
So reports are being called for and
estimates prepared for these latest sub-
terranean schemes, while the citizenry
at large skips across unpoliced cros-
sings and reads that in a recent special
“blitz” on motorists who fail to give
way to pedestrians, the entire Sydney
police force booked an average of two
motorists a day.
The case of the alderman whose
narrow escape gave birth to the
idea of a pedestrian tunnel outside the
Town Hall had a close parallel in
Sydney last week. Premier Robert
Heffron was strolling through his
Maroubra backyard when he found
the plastic head of a fireworks rocket
buried in the lawn. As Mr Heffron
earnestly told reporters later, “I had
to exert a lot of effort to pull it out.”
Now ever since “Cracker Night”
May 24 there’s been a lot of talk
about dangerous fireworks in Sydney.
That night a three-year-old boy was hit
on the head by one of these plastic-
coned rockets, suffering fatal injuries.
The “authorities” had “called for a
report.”
But no reports were needed after
Mr Heffron’s encounter with one of
the monsters in his own yard. “The
rocket must have hit the ground with
the force of a bullet to have embedded
itself lour inches deep in the ground,”
said the Premier after making his own
on-the-spot tests. “Obviously these
rockets are dangerous.” So, there and
then, Mr Heffron announced that the
Government would take action against
the manufacture and sale of certain
fireworks with particular attention
to rockets.
Sydney people, reading of this
statesman-like (and obviously sensible)
decision, wondered how they could
trap Mr Heffron (or some similarly
influential figure) into using the city’s
peak-hour public transport.
Mr Heffron’s colleague, Mr Ernie
Wetherell, Minister for Education in
NSW, didn't find any rockets on his
lawn last week but I suspect that
he’ll soon be firing a few around his
Department. Last week a storm of
protest broke over Mr Wetherell’s
hairless head on a subject that brings
trembling to any politician: religion.
With the Catholics having been
successfully staved off for yet another
election on their demand for State aid
for denominational schools, Mr
Wetherell found himself under attack
from Jews, Humanists, Rationalists
and other non-conformist groups
Their complaint was that the social
studies syllabus introduced into NSW
State schools in 1959 provides for
religious instruction by lay teachers.
They said that scripture classes by
Ministers of religion for various groups
within each school was one thing. But
for the official syllabus to include
Christian religious instruction (for
exam purposes, too) was contrary to
the tradition of completely secular
State education.
When a group of ALP members
brought along a petition demanding
amendment of the syllabus, Mr
Wetherell saw that he war up against
a determined group and some
influential ones, too. He immediately
promised to review the situation.
Tncidental intelligence from last
week in gay, gay Sydney: An aider-
man at Manly suggested (unsuccess-
fully) chopping down that suburb’s
famous beach-side pine trees and sel-
ling the timber to pay for road widen-
ing; the Councils of the City and in
the suburb of Willoughby recorded
that boats on trailers were taking up
valuable parking spaces in the streets;
and Mr Justice Dovey made two
divorce petitioners wait for justice
because their solicitors had used the
word “cohabitated” instead of
“cohabited” in official documents.
BLIGH


ONQUEST
■
.V. ..V.V -• ■•, ■■■-.W**
w«»-”
./tWXf
wwSSS
KS?
mmMM
**?s«*
M
=**£6
n
s3B*
*::t
wmsm.
mm
m
m
m*
zzm
S3«a
■ ':
*y'*<iir»w»
• «*V # *>•••* t,S** *•
% N& 4-.
!
■^<4*
■•.••.• -■•••••
- -x:::V» ' i
«>• i&SSN**.
y & . '
5L «*'
The planet Mars, nearly
35,000,000 miles from earth
at its nearest point, has excited
the imaginations of would-be
space conquerors for centuries.
Last year, the trains of the
New South Wales Government
Railways travelled more than
35,000,000 miles. Not to the
planets or the stars but to the
hamlets and villages, the towns
and cities of the State in a
never-ending round of freight
and passenger services.
When, a century ago, our
pioneers faced their far
horizons, the Railways was the
new tool they found at hand to
solve their transport problems.
Now, as then, the development
of New South Wales is reflected
in the mileages run by its
trains mileages that now
amount to over 35,000,000
annually.
SB
*
cc
■pi
co
>
N8997C
NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT


THE U.S.S.R. IN AUSTRALIA
Russia now applies the soft sell in its propaganda
as this North Queensland story shows
By L. J. ROBERTS
A new travelling salesman has appeared
on the rich North Queensland
circuit.
His prospective customers have been
the bright young men (the up-and-
coming executives and professional men,
the prosperous farmers’ sons), the civic
leaders and generally either those with
current community influence or those
who might be expected to wield the in-
fluence within the next 10 years or so.
His product has been the Soviet
Russian brand of Communism.
The salesman is Alexis Makarov, the
middle-sized 34-ish, bespectacled Second
Secretary of the Soviet Embassy in
Canberra.
It always helps for a salesman to have
a sponsor, and in Mr Makarov’s case his
sponsorship was impeccable—the North
Queensland Apex Clubs within Zone
Eleven of the Australian Association of
Apex Clubs.
His tour was arranged by the Zone
Board of Directors and in particular by
its International Relations Committee.
Mr Makarov might not have written
any orders, but he will be able to report
to head office a complete success in the
Public Relations field and, after all,
every head office regards the Public
Relations aspect of its product as of the
utmost importance. Mr Makarov’s head
office is known to be no exception to
this rule, and in fact is one of the leaders
in the field of Public Relations.
Mr Makarov’s penetration of a new
sales territory has been the best since the
re-opening of the Soviet Embassy, and
probably one of the best ever in Soviet
Embassy history in Australia.
The travelling salesman will be able
to list these achievements in his report
to head office:
• The projection of a genial “one-
of-the-boys” image to audiences of the
type that PR men dream of.
• Close, most amicable contact with
men who normally would not be seen
dead with a known Communist.
• Straight reports of his own des-
criptions of his product and its advant-
ages to the discriminating consumer
appearing in newspapers which normally
would rather go out of print than be used
for Communist propaganda.
• Photographs showing him in com-
pany with smiling bright, young execu-
tive-types whose know-how is respected
in their community.
• Radio interviews, in one of which
he was handled so deferentially that he
did not even have to defend his product.
• Avid takers among his audiences
of top men for free Soviet propaganda
publications extolling the product.
® Adroit fielding on his part of ques-
tions not favorable to the product.
Mr Makarov’s sales conferences were
a series of Apex Club International Re-
lations Nights.
Everywhere he went in North Queens-
land, Mr Makarov was politeness itself.
He expressed appreciation of wonderful
hospitality and thanked the Zone Board
of Directors and its International Rela-
tions Committee and Chairman for the
invitation to tell something of life in
his country.
The Zone International Relations cir-
cular to all clubs in the zone stated that
the cold war implications of Mr Maka-
rov’s visit undoubtedly would be raised.
However, the nine' clubs in the zone
were told that they should stress that
Apex was interested in all aspects of
international relations, and that Mr
Makarov’s visit was a private one ar-
ranged by Apex for Apex. Those present
at the International Night meetings would
be Apex members and their guests.
The naive implication was that as only
“top people” would be attending
(virtually all of whom would vote Libe-
ral-Country Party anyway), the cold
war implications would be dismissed.
The circular also delicately asked that
Clubs not deviate from their announce-
ments on accommodation as Mr Makarov
had to advise the Department of Ex-
ternal Affairs of his whereabouts each
night.
At each centre, the local International
Relations Director or Club Chairman
explained the purpose of the visit along
lines set out in the Apex handbook.
Generally speaking, this was the
pattern: —
“Apex has from its earliest days been
interested in overseas countries which
is natural to a group of young men who
profess to be leaders of community
thought. Having this natural curiosity
we have always been keen to have as
our guests people from other lands, and
to learn from them how their people
live. Consequently it is an annual event
that we especially invite a guest from
overseas at least once a year, and this
year we hope to learn something of the
peoples of Russia.”
That particular introduction was made


in Ayr to an audience of some 40 people
including a Member of the Queensland
Parliament, but it serves to show the
pattern.
The Zone invitation took Mr Makarov
to the nine principal centres of North
Queensland —the cities of Mackay,
Townsville, Cairns and Charters Towers
and the towns of Proserpine, Ayr,
Ingham, Innisfail and Gordonvale.
Last year the zone’s International
Relations Night tour was made by a
Japanese Embassy official who spoke
long and earnestly of the complete demo-
cratisation of Japan and then screened
a film which probably did more than any
other single thing to boost North Queens-
land tourist travel to Japan.
This year, as was done last year, the
Apex Clubs of the Zone invited City,
Town or Shire Councillors, members of
Rotary, Lions, Jaycees, Rostrum, Junior
Farmers Clubs, Chambers of Commerce
and industry representatives as well as a
few non-organisation guests.
The gatherings ranged from around
the 40 mark upwards to the 80-100 level.
Not all Apex members attended, and not
all members of the invited Service Clubs.
A Hit with the Boys
In the nine centres visited, those Club
members with the most free time lunched
and dined with him, took him touring
and generally entertained him.
Club members of the one centre drove
him on to the next to save travelling
costs from Mackay through to Cairns
from where he flew back to Canberra.
Mr Makarov’s care for the presenta-
tion of the correct down-to-earth, one-
of-the-boys image was best demonstrated
in Ingham.
The April 28 issue of The Bulletin
carried a feature article on Ingham as
“A Town in a Hurry” which made the
points that the community’s over-riding
passion was fishing, and that formality
was an unknown quantity.
On his arrival in Ingham, Mr Maka-
rov expressed complete lack of interest
in the proposed visit to a sugar mill and
a sugar bulk loading terminal. What he
really wanted to do, surprisingly, was to
go fishing.
He was instantly “in”, and was taken
fishing. He did not catch anything, but
the subject of fishing served at that
night’s function to introduce him light-
heartedly to his audience, and for him
to relax his audience and have it
laughing with him.
He did not have such a handy guide
for the other centres, but with all Clubs
he was at the first name stage quite
quickly, and everyone was delighted
when he proved that he could breast the
bar with the rest —the private bar, of
course.
At each International Relations Night
he spoke for up to an hour, and then
spent at least half to three quarters of
an hour answering questions from the
floor.
He was concerned first, however, with
projecting himself to his audience. He
was, he said, the son of a peasant
family and had been born just outside
Moscow. His education, provided by the
State, had taken him through to Uni-
versity level where he had been prepared
for a diplomatic career. He had spent
three years in Moscow and four in
Austria with the diplomatic service be-
fore coming to Australia with the group
re-opening the Embassy.
His wife was with him in Canberra,
but his 10-years-old daughter had re-
turned to Russia to boarding school after
two years here.
From then on, his 40 to 60 minute
address was straight Party line.
Russia, within 20 years, was to lead
the world in all respects not just in some
as at present. Russia did not seek to
impose her system on anyone. If, how-
ever, other peoples were so impressed
with its success as to wish to adopt it,
that was their privilege. Russia wanted
people to go to see for themselves, and
provided for a 48 hours visa-less stop-
over in Moscow for Australians travelling
to Europe. Visas for longer stays were
readily available.
Questions ranged from the completely
absurd to matters of freedom of travel,
of literature and of culture generally, to
de-Stalinisation, the Berlin Wall, Hun-
gary and the refugee wave seeking to
enter Hong Kong.
Each centre produced much the same
line of questioning, and each centre saw
much the same spontaneous, off-the-cuff
answer.
Many questions were a straight gift,
and with those that could have been dif-
ficult he employed the sound policy of
never saying “Yes” or “No”, and simply
kept talking long enough to raise a dif-
ferent train of thought and swing away
from the subject, losing the questioner
somewhere in the maze.
A highly-trained and fluent member
of what he would describe as his
country’s intelligensia (between whom
and the workers there was no conflict)
he was a conquering lion among his
questioning lambs wherever he went.
His catch cry was: “I welcome ques-
tions. I have nothing to hide. I am not
here to convert anyone. I am just here
to present facts. It is for the people
themselves to judge and make compari-
sons.”
This catch-cry gained him top news
story space in two centres —Mackay and
Charters Towers.
His excellent press stemmed directly
from the high community esteem which
Apex enjoys.
North Queensland almost could be
described as being on a “Service Club
kick”. No self-respecting community in
the North is without a club. Some have
several. The position is such that unless
a man is “in” Rotary, Apex, Lions or
Jaycees he is “out” in every other way.
Members in the 18 to 35 age group
in the Apex Clubs generally rank next
in acceptability to Rotary members as
far as the community as a whole is con-
cerned. Among the younger section of
the community, however, Apex un-
doubtedly is tops.
Only Service Club sponsorship of a
tour by a self-described Communist
Party member of many years standing
could make that tour acceptable in the
North, and only sponsorship by a Club
organisation of the standing of Rotary
or Apex could make it not only accept-
able, but respectable.
Favorable Press Treatment
Just as attendance at a gathering
whose sole purpose was to hear a Com-
munist talk on Communism would have
been unthinkable had the gathering been
arranged by other than a Service Club,
so too, would straight news story space
for such a speaker under any other
circumstances.
These are typical press treatments: —■
Mackay’s newspaper gave the visit,
some of his answers to questions, and
some direct statements on superiority in
education, medicine and lack of unem-
ployment its third top news story space
under the heading “Red Envoy: I have
nothing to hide” and added a smiling
photograph.
The Ayr newspaper gave the Apex
International Relations Night—and that
meant Mr Makarov —most of its tabloid-
sized front page. It quoted portion of his
main address and blithely included these
paragraphs in the body of the report: —
“Mr Makarov then spoke for approxi-
mately 40 minutes, during which period
he held the rapt attention of over 40
people.
“Mr Makarov, a comparatively young
man, proved a friendly, astute and well-
informed foil for the questioners who
pulled no punches, but respected the
dignity of an invited guest.


■ ? - ■..•■•• • ...^.:.<w»
TUe
invests »
i vvs>~'
*\
Sfe. v
v>--
'.■:**
\
8 and 10 y earS I
p.A. tor
x x M
X ,
••:■:-
■y.
uv *m
'ifftfL I
REID Kff
REG. FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
An investment in Reid Murray Accept-
ance Ltd. is an investment in one of
Australia's best-backed Companies. All
told, the Reid Murray group includes:
174 Retail Stores, 7 Wholesale Ware-
houses, Real Estate Companies in 5
States, and the Finance Company for
the group—Reid Murray Acceptance
Ltd.
Applications accepted only on forms at-
tached to the Prospectus. Available from:
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 1924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The stock Exchange of Melb,
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William Street, Adelaide
Members of Stock Exch. of Adelaide Ltd.
FIXEP lOHG TERM STOCK
P.A. ...
.... 8-10 YEARS
9%
SHORT TERM NOTICE STOCK
5%
—on 3 months' notice
PAID-UP CAPITAL £7,000,000
GUARANTEED BY REID MURRAY HOLDINGS LTD
“With a wonderful sense of humor,
and a highly trained mind, he had the
gathering in fits of laughter from time
to time, but at other times his answers
gave food for sober thought for an
audience which believes in the right of
the individual under a totally different
system.
“The Apex Club is to be complimented
on its International Relations Movement,
and it was evident to all who were pri-
vileged to attend last night’s dinner that
the guest speaker was better informed
of his host country than the gathering
were of his home land, at least before
his address.”
Townsville’s newspaper did not report
his address, but published on page three
a photograph of his welcome by two
Club officials and gave details of the
reason for the visit.
Both Townsville commercial radio
stations interviewed him —one with great
deference. The other had a prepared list
of “difficult” questions which did not
even fluster him. Neither station has
trained interviewers, only announcers. :
Charters Towers—whose paper is
owned by the Townsville newspaper
concern—gave him the second news
story space with a “Nothing to Hide”
headline, provided direct address quotes
and included two or three questions and
answers, one of which allowed him to
explain that there was no interference
with the many religions in Russia.
Ingham’s newspaper reported his pre-
sence at an Apex International Relations
function, but did not give him main
news story space. He was not quoted
at all, and was described as speaking
on Russia’s internal and external policies.
The story referred also to the film which
he had screened on the training and
orbital flight of Major Titov.
In some other centres he showed a
second film also —one on “everyday”
life in the Soviet.
The period of Mr Makarov’s northern
visit might almost have been “Let’s
Look at Communism Week” in Queens-
land.
While he was in the Far North the
Annual Congress of the Queensland
Branch of the RSL in Maryborough
(Central Queensland) was being told by
the League’s National President, Mr
A. J. Lee:—
“We are not preparing for World War
111. We are actually engaged in it. The
Third World War is being conducted by
the Communists with insidious and skil-
ful technique.
“Unless Australians awaken to the
fact that the conflict has been joined, we
are inviting a disaster greater and more
irrevocable than free men ever have
faced before.”
Mr Lee was speaking in connection
with the current RSL campaign against
Communism.


London Newsletter
THE GREAT BRITISH MIGRATION
Milder climate, more money, new industries draw more
and more of England's people to the south ...
From JOHN DOUGLAS PRINGLE
T was born and brought up in Scotland.
I got my first job in Manchester.
Today—after an eccentric deviation to
Australia —I live in London. In this
respect, if no other I am perfectly typi-
cal of the British people. Ever since the
first world war there has been a steady
Drift to the South which is now reaching
alarming proportions.
Those who want proof of this state-
ment can find it in the preliminary report
on the 1961 census which showed that in
the ten years since 1951 some 352,000
people emigrated from Scotland to
England and Wales.
But 49,000 had left Wales for England
and within England itself there was a
steady movement from the north to the
south-east. It is the counties round
London which have shown the most
dramatic increases in population. Bed-
fordshire has gained by 68,767, Buck-
inghamshire by 99,892, Berkshire by
100,216, Essex by 242,006, Hertford-
shire by 222,313, Kent by 136,759,
Surrey by 130,527, Sussex East by 50,
122 and Sussex West by 88,432. Today
nearly a quarter of the total population
of the British Isles is jammed into the
south-east corner of the country. (It is
true that an even higher proportion of
Australians live in the south-east corner
of their country, but then it is a much
bigger corner!)
But you don't really need statistics to
become aware of this drift. You can see
it for yourself in the fantastic crowding
of London which is threatening to bring
the capital to a halt in ten years time.
You can see it in the huge office
blocks that are being built in the City,
in the traffic that jams the roads through-
out the south-east, in the villas which
sprawl over the countryside and devour
the coastline. But at least all these things,
though uncomfortable and slightly luna-
tic, are signs of boom. In Scotland and
the North of England you can see a
grimmer kind of evidence: closed pits,
idle ship-yards, empty factories and an
indefinable smell of decay which under-
lies the surface prosperity.
Of course this shift of wealth and
population is not uniform. Some towns
and industries in Scotland and the North
are still doing well and the Midlands,
with their iron and steel, chemical and
motor car industries, are thriving. But
the drift goes on and leads to curious
disparities. For instance, a middle class
couple could be sure of getting a decent
house for £4OOO anywhere in Scotland
or the North. To get the same house
in the Home Counties they would have
to spend at least £BOOO, near London
£12,000 and in Central London they
would have to burgle the Bank of Eng-
land. A business man will have to pay
50 shillings a square foot of floor space
in rent for an office in a modern block
in the City or the West End of London.
In Glasgow the market race is under
10 shillings a square foot.
The reasons for the drift are complic-
ated. Some of them are hard economic
facts. The great industries on which the
wealth of Scotland and the North was
based —coal-mining, ship-building and
textiles —are now the declining industries,
while the new industries —cars, electrical
engineering, consumer goods—are in the
south with easy access to London and
the south coast ports. But this, though
no doubt the most important factor, is
not the whole answer. There is also
apparent a deliberate rejection of the
North by the people themselves.
Climate plays a part in this. Through-
out the world in this century industrial
man has become much more conscious
of the sun. In the United States he moves
south to Florida or West to California.
In Europe he moves to the Mediterra-
nean. Even in Russia the Communist
authorities are finding it difficult to stop
people moving south to the Crimea and
the Ukraine. The same thing is happening
in Britain. This may sound faintly ab-
surd to Australians who find even the
South Coast of England intolerably cold
and damp, but in fact there is a slight
but noticeable difference between North
and South. Winters in Scotland and the
North of England are long and bleak;
summers brief and inconstant. There are
few evenings when a citizen of Edin-
burgh or Newcastle can sit out of doors
in the evening in any comfort. Today,
when the time comes to retire, many
older couples think they might as well
move south to the softer climate of
Sussex or Kent or Devon.
But the younger people have other
motives. To them the North often seems
to stand for everything they want to
forget poverty, hardship, ugliness, a
Puritan environment, the bitter class-
consciousness of the industrial worker.
By moving to the South they can slip
much more easily into the exciting, less
rigid, more raffish but affluent society of
coffee bars and dance halls, jazz clubs
and motor bikes. A boy or a girl who
moves from Dundee or Blackburn to
London or even to Birmingham is
moving to a different world. They might
be emigrating to Australia or Canada.
I can’t say I blame them. When I
came back to Britain from Australia
three years ago I was at first surprised
by the tremendous increase in prosperity
in the South. It seemed to me then that
the worker in England had nearly caught
up with the Australian worker. But that
summer I drove North to revisit
Manchester where I had worked for ten
years and was appalled by what I saw.
After Sydney it seemed a desolation of
soot-blackened brick; and though the
people were in fact well off, it seemed
to have made little or no difference to
their clothes or pleasures.
The smaller textile towns like Black-
burn and Rochdale and Preston were
still worse. Huddled in their grimy
valleys, their mill chimneys trailing a
black banner of smoke, they seemed
sullen and suspicious as if they could


not believe that prosperity had come to
stay and were saving every penny for
the day when the Depression would steal
back and strike them down again. There
are large areas of the North of England
and Clydeside which should be pulled
down and built again from scratch to
prove a tolerable life for their people.
Yet no one can be quite happy about
what is happening. There are a few
visionary town-planners who cheerfully
contemplate a Britain where half the
population lives in a kind of vast garden
city in the south-east while the rest of
the country is left for farming and
holiday-makers; but I am not one of
them.
To begin with I hate the kind of
crowded, characterless suburban civilisa-
tion which is the inevitable result of such
a policy. I like some cities and most
country: I do not like a mixture of the
two. But also I do not think it entirely
sentimental to feel that much of the
quality of Britain comes from diversity—
not only the strong national character
of the Scots and Welsh and Irish but
the almost equally strong local character
of the men from Lancashire or York-
shire or Durham.
There are, of course, two sides to this.
Arnold Wesker in his fine play “Roots”
has mocked the notion that there is any
particular value in provincial life which
too often merely serves to hold men and
women down in the pattern of their
fathers. For the individual escape may
mean emancipation. But that is not the
whole truth. As a Scot I am intensely
aware of what a man loses when he
is “uprooted” and separated from his
native culture.
How to Stop the Drift
Can anything be done to stop the
drift? Perhaps. The sheer physical dis-
comfort of overcrowding on the south-
east may force governments to plan
more vigorously and direct new indus-
tries to Scotland and the North of
England. But it’s also possible that the
people who live in these areas—or those
who are left—may themselves revolt in
protest. At the West Lothian by-election
this week a Scottish Nationalist candi-
date got 9000 votes, coming second to
Labor. The Conservative, the Liberal
and the Communist candidates all lost
their deposits. West Lothian is a coal-
mining area hard hit by the gradual
closing of many Scottish pits.
To some extent therefore the votes for
the Scottish Nationalist were protest
votes against a local situation. But they
were also protests against a system
under which decisions to close a Scottish
pit are taken in London, where wealth,
and power are concentrated, and the
South and Scotland is left to dwindle
slowly into a depressed area—with the
Highlands, already depopulated, kept as
a national park for English tourists
If I had been living in West Lothian
I would have voted for the Scottish
Nationalist, but would I go back and
live in Scotland? Well, yes, I would—
if someone offered me a good job at an
equivalent salary.
★ ★ ★
Patrick O’Donovan in the “London
Observer” says that the restlessness of
which John Pringle writes is also in
British politics ... an uncertainty, a
malaise of spirit and feeling. . . .
JThiE detached political observer if so
-*■ monstrous and unnatural an animal
ever existed would be hard pressed
to say what is really going on in
Britain. That there is political dissatis-
faction is undeniable, but it is of a sort,
so undefinable, so ill-focused as to defeat
the observer.
For once no foreigner is being blamed,
neither the Americans nor General de
Gaulle. Indeed one of the symptoms of
the malaise is that “abroad”, which
Edward VII once dismissed with the
entire approval of his subjects as
“bloody”, now looks positively enticing.
Fundamental to the malaise is the
feeling that Britain is missing something.
There is no New Frontier here. The
Common Market is across the Channel
and it looks fun to be a member. But
very few know the price of membership
and controversy about it is confined to
self-appointed experts. Perhaps the
dominant emotion is political boredom
and boredom is a powerful influence in
politics and more responsible than any
other single factor for changes of
government in Britain.
The present Tory Government is not
disliked, it is simply not popular. It is
uncertain if it could even scrape in again
for an unprecedented fourth term in a
general election. Its image is tarnished,
by time more than by failure. The Prime
Minister, Mr Harold Macmillan, is no
longer an image of energy and effective-
ness. (Whoever once called him Mac-
Wonder and all the other sillinesses?)
He is laughed at in an unkindly way.
It needs a very solid Tory heart to beat
faster at the sight and sound of him,
and it is not his fault.
For nothing has gone really wrong.
His financial policies have been a reason-
able success. The Common Market
negotiations are reasonably advanced,
and seem to have been conducted with a
circumspection proper to a change that
will be as fundamental as any since the
time we cut off the head of a king to
create a middle-class dictatorship.
Certainly, physically, the country
bears a smiling face. This is the afflu-
ence that soldiers in the war dreamt of.
And yet the politics of it all has a
dusty taste. There is this colossal ennui
with the leaders and their alternatives.
Politics are for professionals. Party
loyalty is old hat. Enthusiasm for a party
is absurd. There is hardly a professional
politician who can be mentioned without
a tired sneer.
Nor is the Labor image any more
engaging. The old class loyalty is no
longer really necessary. The trades
unions have built up a fund of resent-
ment against their apparent irresponsi-
bility. The ideological bickering among
the party leaders seems ugly rather than
stimulating or significant. The party of
the brotherhood of men looks to an
outsider like a protracted brawl. And
politically passionate youth turns to the
Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament.
Small Stamped to Liberals
Most indicative that all is not well
is the small ordered stampede in the
direction of the Liberals. In Britain, a
third party is a special rarity. It comes
into being for a special purpose, as the
Irish Party did, or because one of the
great parties can no longer represent
the logical alternative ideology, as when
Labor took over from the Liberals in
the 19205. Britain's politics are only
workable on a two-party system and in
normal times only the lunatic or fanatic
fringe votes for a third party.
There are no subtle reasons for Liber-
alism’s new dawn. “Change is as good
as a rest”, works in politics too. It is a
gesture of rejection for the Old Gang.
It is a warning that the images of the
old parties, the alternatives they offer,
are no longer sufficient. Few know what
the Liberals stand for.
It means a plague on Labor doctri-
naire appeals and on the imagined
selfishiness and unreason of the trades
unions. It means a plague on the plati-
tudes of the Conservatives and on their
caution and complacency. It means a
vote for mild adventure. To vote Liberal
is like taking a ticket at the seaside on
a bus for a Mystery Tour. No destination
announced, but comfortable seats and
the promise of frequent stops for beer.
A part of the tiny hard core of Liberal
professionals are being wildly optimistic.
Cne hopes for 200 in the next
House of Commons. A more common
appraisal is 15. Either figure could give
them a dominant position as the man
at the centre of the see-saw, able to push
either side down at will.
Such an outcome would in fact be
disastrous. Few really want it. But it is
a political fact that it is fun to reject
the mighty and the well settled. (After
all, this happened even to Churchill
after the war). It feels good to put the
professionals in their place. The temp-
tations to political irresponsibility are
strong just now in Britain, and Britain
is dangerously bored with its leaders
and their obvious alternatives.


TEACHING ARTISTS
HOW
The Power Game
By GARRY SHEAD
When the <£lm. bequest made by
Dr John Power comes into
effect, Sydney University will
become the centre of the fine arts in
Australia. His bequest is to be used for
the foundation and endowment of a
Faculty of Fine Arts at the University
and will train students for degrees as
sculptors and artists. Thus the University
will be the centre of art as well as of
culture. At the present time the National
Art School fulfils the former function.
Concerning the bequest, Dr Power
stated that the money should benefit all
Australians and not only students of the
University. So it is conceivable that
some arrangement will be made between
the two institutions. The National Art
School of course has much to gain. But
there are also many obstacles to be over-
come.
Although it is the present seat of art
teaching in Australia the National Art
School seems unsuited for its task. Its
premises are situated between Central
Criminal Court and Darlinghurst Police
Station in the shell of an ex-penitentiary.
During the First World War the gaol-
blocks were used as a prisoner-of-war
depot. After the war, the government
was left with a set of buildings on its
hands. The Department of Education
gratefully accepted them for use as an
art school in 1922.
Because it was a gaol the rooms are
large. The steel bars have been extracted
from the windows and replaced by glass.
The convicts have been replaced by
students. An art library has taken the
place of the old gaol’s administrative
quarters. There is a store run by the
Art Students’ Club, and a canteen which
is the cultural and social heart of Tech.
One teacher suggested that such condi-
tions of medieval make-do are the most
desirable for the artistic type of person.
“This atmosphere is more stimulating,”
he said, “rather than the stainless-steel
fitness-for-purpose atmosphere of the
academic institution.” This seems to be
an evasion of the issue. In the 20th
century a converted 19th century peni-
tentiary would hardly be able to stimulate
anyone and certainly not to the extent
that the Bahaus, for example, did in
Germany.
Teachers at Tech, are chosen by a
committee on their merit and qualifica-
tions. Once selected they are permanent
fixtures. The law states here that: “The
Public Service Board will dismiss a per-
son if he is guilty of any wilful disobedi-
ence or disregard of any lawful order
made or given by any person having
authority to give such order.” Thus,
because of the necessity to obey the rules
laid down by the present hierarchy most
teachers conform to the strict standards.
Some free-thinking ones surreptitiously
encourage the individual student, but they
do so at their own risk (although the
possibility of being unearthed is slim).
The cross-fertilisation of ideas between
advanced students and teachers is mainly
carried on outside Tech. Tech, itself is
only the meeting place. The old notion
that everybody is interested in art is pure
fancy. Most students attend Tech, with
such a lack of concern or vision that
nearly all are convinced that at the end
of three years they will be trained com-
mercial artists or competent painters re-
gardless of talent or study.
A flow of painters
"Decause teachers are selected by com-
mittee, a man with a set of impressive
credentials and a borrowed painting that
appeals to it will be selected; while an
important painter with no credentials and
a style of painting that does not appeal
to the tastes of the committee will be
rejected. And even when administrative
consideration is given to a significantly
important painter, lack of revenue will
make this a dream. Most important
painters make more money by painting
than they would by teaching.
Nevertheless there has begun over the
past few years a small flow of competent
contemporary painters. Now on the
teaching staff is David Strachan who won
the 1961 Wynne Landscape Prize. Other
painters well known in Australia are
abstractionists John Coburn and Strom
Gould and figurative painter Jeff Smart.
Lyndon Dadswell is head teacher of
the sculpture section. Even though some
of these new members are likely to leave
at any time, the mere fact that several


hundred students have passed through
their influence in the meantime validates
the new policy.
There are some seemingly irremediable
aspects of the art teaching. Because of
curricular difficulties there is often the
necessity to place a round peg in a square
hole. A man versed in one aspect of art
forced to teach some subject he knows
little about thus instilling a dull average
in those whom he teaches.
The benevolent attitude of the civil
service towards its employees accounts
for the stagnation that often accompanies
senility. If some of the teachers who
have been with the Department for 20
years or more were dismissed, they would-
stand very little chance of keeping their
heads above water. Therefore there is a
moral obligation to keep them on to
which there seems no immediate remedy.
What of the future? The National
Art School is the largest institution for
the teaching of art in Australia. Yet it
is limited to the teaching of painting and
sculpture and their complementaries. Of
necessity major emphasis is placed on
commercial art and yet even this is lack-
ing in certain aspects. None of the
graphic arts is taught. No teaching is
available for process engraving, litho-
graphy, etching, or wood cut techniques.
Processes of reproduction, so important
to the commercial artist, are not taught
in any form. Paradoxically enough there
are many teachers of these subjects on
the staff. They are members of the
dedicated Sydney Printmakers’ Society
All are confident that the various graphic
arts, respected elsewhere, have a real
contribution to make to contemporary
art, and possibly to Contemporary Aus-
tralian Art. All would be willing to give
their knowledge and experience if faci-
lities were made available.
The Bardot image
TYttal disregard is shown for other arts
A of which no teaching is available in
Australia—such, for example, as film-
making and creative literature. Probably
as a result of the limitations experienced
at Tech, some art students this year
produced a newspaper: the “Arty Wild
Oat”. It was published in April by five
of the more energetic students. In its
first issue, it attacked the Art Gallery,
despite the fact that Mr Douglas Dundas
as Head of the School was also one of
the trustees. The Department criticised
the performance, forgave the participants,
but refused any aid for the future. Mean-
while the small group has procured an
article from Norman Lindsay for the
next issue. The “Arty Wild Oat’s” pre-
decessor, “The Palette”, ceased function-
ing several years ago when an editor
absconded with the funds. With no
tradition to fulfil the new voice may begin
a new era of student enthusiasm.
Despite the turmoil of their conditions
the students pass sluggishly through the
great upsurges of fashion that periodically
grip their social groups. Bohemianism
and beatnikism are history now, but the
Bardot image hangs heavily on most of
the female population who are interested
in either getting married or having a
“good ’ time. The European influence
in clothing is strong but most students
in their small way are essentially pro-
Australian. Male students dress tweedily
in eskimo-like parkas and encourage the
growth of hair or beard. The girls mince
about in their eclectic pot-pourri-of
black scarfs and form-fitting slacks.
During weekends and holidays many
students converge on the picturesque
ghost town of Hill End 180 miles from
Sydney. Hill End became the acknow-
ledged Mecca of the artist, when the
1961 Wynne Prize was awarded to David
Strachan for his painting of it. Recently
a touching verse in cynical vein was com-
posed by an unknown genius.
Hill End is in
Since this year’s Wynne
And now is part
Of Australian art,
Here sheep and students roam
In flocks so far from home.
The greater percentage of students do
the three-year commercial art course.
After five years in the case of fine art,
a diploma is awarded on the passing of
an exam. This diploma is equivalent to
the leaving certificate and entitles the
holder to a post in a Government De-
partment. But for the artist most employ-
ment is precarious. On the other hand
a student having done the commercial
art course can find employment in any
commercial art studio. Although these
are not brilliant prospects, the hard work-
ing student can end up anywhere either
because of Tech, or despite it.
Even though it has many failings the
National Art School is still the nominal
head of the art world in Sydney. Each
year it turns out its fair share of promis-
ing painters and promising marriages. If
it feels the influence of the “Power Be-
quest” we may expect great things in
the future.


OUT AND ABOUT
THE FIRST
AND LAST
"If they will like me, I will like them"
By PATRICIA ROLFE
She might have been somebody’s
grandmother. Oh, no, let’s not try
that old one again. But, coming
through the customs door at Mascot she
might, perhaps, have been the buyer for
costume jewellery for a large, smart store,
although she wore little jewellery herself.
She was dressed in a matching topcoat
and soft, stitched hat in a tweed which
might have given Onkaparinga pause.
Her hair is white-blonde, whether achie-
ved at great trouble and expense, or just
coming naturally, it is impossible to be
sure. Although she says she eats spar-
ingly, just four or five small meals a day,
that, perhaps, is one or two too many.
Her voice, not helped by a cold and
some fatigue after the flight from
America, is like a truck reversing down
a narrow lane. She laughs a lot and
smiles little. Her answers come quick,
hard and dead-on, like precise blows with
a fly-swat.
She stood, head on one side, while a
choir from Moriah College, Bellevue Hill,
sang “Hevenu Shalom Alechem,” a Jew-
ish song of welcome. Then she grasped
the inevitable offering, a koala bear.
“What do you call this thing? A koala
bean? Oh, bear, I was expecting a kanga-
roo.” She accepts a small forest of green
orchids. “Why, they’re beautiful, just
beautiful.”
She removes the topcoat, showing a
grey wool dress with allover embroidery
almost all over. “Well, here I am,” she
said, sitting down and crossing one small
foot over the other, “holding this koala
bean in one hand, these orchids in
another and trying to smooth away the
lines on my face with the third.”
American singer Miss Sophie Tucker
was then ready at 8.30 a.m. to face the
world, and, apparently, almost any quest-
ion about herself.
Was her age a secret? She lifts the
spray of orchids and leers through the
undergrowth at the row of interviewers.
“No, of course not. I’m 75 next year.
That’ll be 1973, won’t it? Anyway, I have
my diamond jubilee in show business,
organised by the Jewish Theatre Guild,
at the Waldorf Astoria in January. It all
started 60 years ago in ‘The Old German
Village’ on 40th and Broadway.”
Did she remember her first perfor-
mance?
“Now, darling, that’s asking a lot of
the old girl.”
Was she thinking of retiring?
“That’s a dirty word. Retiring? No. I’m
not thinking of retiring. If they like me
in Australia and the Almighty spares me
I’ll come back here every year, same as I
go to London every year. But I’m an
old girl now and I’m going to do what I
like. I’m going to have a bit of fun.”
What did she think of today’s young
performers?
“Well, I think they have a problem.
They make one record and they think
they are established. That’s not show
business. There’s no substitute for facing
an audience. I must say it’s too bad you
get so much for nothing on TV these
days. And as for those film-stars, why I’m
right on the side of the film-company
executives. If Marilyn Monroe and Eliza-
beth Taylor won’t work, get rid of them.
I’ve never been late for a performance
in my life. But they just can’t get away
with it. One person can’t kill show
business.”
Miss Tucker said that while she was in
Melbourne, where she opens on June 26
at the Tivoli (she opens in Sydney on
July 18) she expected to receive the final
script of “Sophie,” a musical written by
Steve Allen. “We expect to go into re-
hearsal for Broadway in November,” she
said. “I’ve picked a girl called Libby
Staiger to play my part. She’s brash like
me. She’s got that go and get it.”
Did she remember the gangster era in
America?
“Now, darling, show business people
don’t get mixed up in things like that.
Don’t bring up the past. There’s nothing
nice back there. Live for tomorrow,
darling. Don’t live in the past.”
She has done a great deal for charity?
“That’s my life. That’s my love. I’ve
raised three and a half million dollars for
charity from the sale of records and my
book ‘Some of These Days.’ It goes to
all charities. But I do have my favorites.
Those are the two youth camps I’ve
established in Israel. After I finish here,
I’m going to Israel for the dedication of
Sophie Tucker forest, being established
at these camps.”
How had she got the title, “the last of
the red-hot mommas?”
“Well, it’s just what we call a moniker.
I used to sing a song called that. I had
a little fire in a grate and a red light
behind it to make it glow. So I got
called ‘the last of the red hot mommas.’
I was the first, too. And, believe me, girl,
I’m the last. There’s no more coming.”
Have any of her songs been banned?
“No, certainly not. There’s never been
anything like that about me. Never.
Why, my scrapbooks, the whole of my
memories in entertainment, three trunks
and a wicker hamper full, are now filed
with the Library of New York”.
What will she sing here?
“Every place I go I do a new pro-
gramme. I’ve brought my songs and my
dresses —16 of them, costing a young
fortune —and one afternoon I’ll get to-
gether with the people here and work
out an act. I’ll probably sing ‘Life Begins
at Forty’ and for a bit of homey stuff
‘Down on the Farm’. And I’ll sing ‘Be
in the Business of Staying Young’. And,
‘My Yiddishe Momma’. Oh yes, I’ll
certainly sing ‘Yiddishe Momma’.
How did she feel about facing Aus-
tralian audiences?
“Sweetheart, if they will like me, I
will like them.”
After 60 years in show business, did
she have any regrets?
“This is what I worked for. This is
what I love. I’m happy.”


it
wnjHTwwjJTnmw:
ROAD
m
m
FOR SPEED —SAFETY —SERVICE
A MEMBER OF THE MAYNE NICKLESS GROUP
DAILY SCHEDULED ROAD SERVICES
To ALL Capital Citi es
Throughout Australia
SYDNEY
HOBART
ADELAIDE
BRISBANE
69-6461
2-9701
45-4601
47-2131
PERTH
MELBOURNE
NEWCASTLE
CANBERRA
8-
30-4161
84908
9-
RADIO PICK-UP TRUCKS
I FLEW MIT DER LUFTWAFFE
"In case we have to get out in a hurry"
By WARWICK CHAMBERS
“FTThe plane’s due at eight o’clock,”
the agent tells me the night
before. “Eight o'clock give and
take. He’s got 15 tons of super to put
out before he gets to you.” Joe is the
pilot’s name. Ex-Luftwaffe ace. Hun-
dred-ton-a-day man. He likes to get
stuck into it. One of the company’s
top men. Thirty thousand tons to his
credit.
I arrive at the strip at 7.30.
I am used to strip-sitting. I spent two
years in New Guinea after the war as
a patrol officer, mostly waiting for planes
and pilots. The blue hills in the distance
sit in halos of cloud. It’s damp and
oppressive. It takes me back 12 years to
Lae, Maprik, Wewak, Aitape.
Eight forty-five and still no plane. The
clouds extend in a heavy line around
to the north. The shape of the hills is
harder to define. Then, at nine o’clock,
there’s a low buzzing in the west. A line
of wings, a black pea of fuselage and
the plane arrives. The pilot circles the
strip once, then drops in from the west
and thump thumps his way up to the
dump and turns her back again.
Joe gets out. He’s sunburnt, squat and
45-ish. He shakes hands with mittel-
European graciousness. “I am Joe,” he
says. “How much super you got?”
I explain to him 40 tons. The pale
blue eyes streaked with the blood of
tiredness and sulphuric acid light up.
He rolls a drum over to the plane and
takes sediment tests. He doesn’t say
much. Perhaps he’s thinking of that £lO
bonus (5/- a ton above his wages). He
pumps the 80-octane into the bowels
of the Beaver until it overflows from
the triple tanks like blood running down
the sides.
“You gotta map?” I roll it out and
start to explain about it, but he just says,
“Uhuh, uhuh,” and washes the air-intake
screens in petrol. It’s becoming stickier
and he throws his sweater off with the
exertion of the work. There’s a wail in
the distance and the loader arrives at
high speed. Joe pulls off the super covers
and exposes the £7OO worth like a white
breast pointing at the sky.
He takes the particulars, name, ton-
nage, strip-owner on his job sheet and
we climb into the Beaver to look the
place over. Buckled in, we go over the
map again. He stuffs his ears with cotton
wool. Explanations are difficult over the
roar of the motor.
“Tree things to remember,” Joe says.
He shows me how to flick the belt off
in an emergency, releasing shoulder and
midriff straps at once. Then the door,
how to open it quickly, and familiarity
with the catch. Then he says, “In case
we have to get out in a hurry! ” He points
down between the seats to a black
hatchet. I make a crack about it, but
he just stares blankly, his pale eyes un-
smiling and says, “Pardon?”
He lifts the plane up over the small
settlement. We cross an old crop area
and the drill lines are wavy and delicately
etched in the stiff clay soil. Flying up
the boundary of the first paddock, we
trace the angles of the area with the
plane’s shadow. A neighbor’s scrub lies
parallel to the boundary and I shout
at him, “That’s Old Alf’s paddock.”
But the words are lost in the rush of
air, leaving me foolish and awkward and
suddenly remembering Joe wouldn’t know
Old Alf if he dropped in his schnitzel.
The property looks disappointing and
minute. We go from one end to the
other in a few minutes. “That there we
call Wallaby paddock, leave her out.”
I point out the window and the wind
tries to drag my hand off. I look back
at the map to get the bearings and find,
in the shock and excitement of seeing the
property from the air for the first time,
I’ve got it upside down. Joe, unsmiling,
takes it out of my shaking hands and
turns it up the right way. We fly over
the last section.
Joe chops and turns this way and that
as though a flight of Spitfires is hanging
on his tail. He has a masterly touch.
That last turn must have made me change
color. Joe leans across. “You feel all
right, eh?” When I get my stomach out
of my mouth again, I answer him. He
says, “Uhuh, uhuh,” and looks knowing.
A Plane Crash
T’m getting a better perspective on the
property now, and each paddock
stands out with its own individuality and
characteristics; trees, soil types, and the
years we’ve spent arranging them our
way. This one still has too many trees,
the bull paddock barer than I thought.
The supered paddocks stand out like
green islands in a sea of grey grass. I
point out a pow'er line to him and he
nods. A plane crashed in the district a
week before, hitting one of these pilot’s
hazards.
We land expertly and pause at the end
of the strip. The loader stands ready
and waiting to drop its ton load into the
plane’s hopper through the small trap-
door. Joe grabs my arm as I go to get
but. “The propellor,” he says. “Walk
to the back of the plane.” He makes
chopping motions with his arms. 1
thank him for the advice and explain how
I found out about these things in New
Guinea. He says, “Uhuh,” and slams
the door. 1 shakily walk across the
strip, my feet sinking into a carpet of
cotton wool. The ton roars down the
chute.
Four hours and £7OO later it will all
be over, a job that would take us five
or six days, normally. And, after all, it’s
not often you can say you’ve flown with
the Luftwaffe.


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
THE OLD CRACKED RECORD
Sir,
I write primarily to thank you for not
disappointing me. I confidently predict-
ed that as soon as it was announced
that the Australian League of Rights was
sponsoring a trip to Britain for Mr D.
J. Killen, MHR, and was sending me
abroad also, the smearers would get to
work again. But, please, could we not
have something original, some new “dis-
covery” concerning Butler, instead of
the old cracked record which has been
played so monotonously for so long?
I suggest that the time has come for
a round-table conference between the
anti-Butler smearers, so that they can
at least get their “facts” uniform. When
I recently spoke at the Adelaide Uni-
versity on the subject of the European
Common Market the smearers there
welcomed me (for which I belatedly
thank them) with a roneod screed which
attempted to infer that I had to be re-
lieved of the position of President of
my Shire, while your anonymous corres-
pondent (Bulletin, June 16) still has
me as Shire President. He also repeats
all the errors of fact in the original
smear from which he copies. However,
as he had to get his smear done in a
hurry, I suppose we cannot expect com-
plete accuracy.
The more discerning of your readers
will, I am sure, be puzzled why you
give valuable space to my smearers if
the League of Rights “is otherwise com-
pletely ineffectual.” As some may be
thinking that your anonymous corres-
pondent is in fact a secret supporter of
the League, and is providing it with
publicity under the guise of attacking
it, may I state that this is not the case.
He just cannot understand that some
people make their own investigations
concerning what is truth and what is
falsehood. His last attack upon the
League resulted in some valuable new
members. The League looks forward to
obtaining many more as a result of his
latest effort.
ERIC D. BUTLER
Panton Hill (Victoria).
Sir,
“The Bulletin” purports to be a re-
sponsible journal and has traditionally,
over many years, done great service to
this Commonwealth by providing its
readers with facts and allowing them to
form their own opinions. The Bulle-
tin’s opinions it has fearlessly expressed
in its editorial pages.
But in the June 16 issue we find an
article, which an informed Bulletin
reader could only describe as a farrago
of half truths and innuendo, and what
confirms this, is the anonymity of its
author. The article I refer to, Sir, is en-
titled “Kiss of Death” and shamelessly
attacks a man (Eric Butler) whose only
crime is that he supports the concept
which all Australians teach their child-
ren. This concept, Sir, is Loyalty to
God, Queen and Country: A little old
fashioned, Sir, yet The Bulletin was
founded on it.
Has the Australian citizen who has
been attacked the right to reply through
your columns? If he has, I assure you
he will not hide as a coward behind a
cloak of anonymity.
Syndal (Victoria).
J. BROWNE
FILM CENSORSHIP
Sir,
I refer to “Paid to have a dirty mind?”
(Bulletin, June 16). For a country
which is “British to the bootstraps” (Mr
Menzies) Australia is some ten years
behind Britain in the question of film
censorship. The British system, which
Australia should at least be copying, is:
1. No appeals censor. If the owner
does not like the censor’s rulings he can
take his film to any County Council and
ask permission to show it within their
area of government. The main test area
for this is London where the LCC have
quite often reversed the censor’s decision
entirely, thus releasing the film to ten
million people. The council is at least
democratically elected and has absolutely
no connection with either the censor or
customs.
2. The “X” certificate. No “nature
films” have been awarded an “X” cer-
tificate in Britain, they get either “U”
(anybody) or “A” (children accompanied
by adults). Of course, rubbish does get
made and shown with an “X” certificate
but you must have this classification
available for public exhibition of
“mature” films.
3. Film clubs are, of course, outside
censorship. The idea of censoring a film
to be seen by a private groun of people
in their own film club is ridiculous.
With regard to the television play
“Reunion Day” you are white-washing
Channel 9 by saying that they would
not show the film in a censored condi-
tion. Their published comments on this
film appeared in TV Times (May 5,
1962) and were as follows: “The ‘Re-
union Day’ depicts Anzac Day as just
another excuse for a debauch” . . “there
is no remembrance of Gallipoli or a
sacrifice” . . “the whole thing was blas-
phemous, obscene and thoroughly nasty”.
These comments were made about a per-
fectly normal BBC production televised
without comment in the UK. So al-
though it is not “the Board’s (film cen-
sor) job to stifle discussion on the merits
or demerits of the observance of Anzac
Day” this job is being done by Channel
9. Thank goodness Australian theatre
is not in such an unhealthy state; at
least they are not scared to provoke
discussion with “The One Day of the
Year.”
The information in your article relat-
ing to “The Savage Eye” does not give
the right picture on how the censor
tackled this film. The climax to the strip-
tease was cut but so were shots taken in
the girl’s dressing room. The aim of the
censor was to cut whenever the dancer’s
breasts were shown. In spite of the fact
that this is documentary film, where one
would expect greater leniency than in a
fictional film, the censor has shown no
leniency. The fact that two of the three
men who made this film had distin-
guished themselves already in “The Quiet
One” and “Muscle Beach” and are
obviously men of great integrity has not
impressed the censor one bit. As you say
“none (of the film censors) has distin-
guished himself by his interest in either
the history or aesthetics of films” so
the censor is acting on behalf of the
moronic mass of the population who
can't be bothered to evaluate or learn
anything about the entertainment offered
to them. It does not matter whether it’s
Ingmar Bergman, Orson Welles or Joe
G. Bloggs, a third-rate Hollywood hack
director out for a quick buck, if they
put a nipple on film the Australian cen-
sor will cut it out. At this rate we will
be blindfolding brest-fed babies in an
attempt to keep their minds pure and un-
sullied.
Probably if the amount of censorship
that goes on were made public there
would be an outcry, and criticism along
with controversy and progress are the
things which the film censor wants to
avoid.
M. AVRIL
Manly (NSW).
COLONIALISM IN OUR
LITERATURE
Sir,
Your report (Bulletin, June 16) of
my CLF lecture at the University of
Queensland on June 5, skilfully abridged
as the report was, contains three minor
literal errors which should be corrected
for purposes of record and to placate
any of your hypercritical readers who
may have forgotten that Jove nods,
sometimes, when he sits in a sub-editor’s
chair.
Page 28, column 1, I advocated a
professorial, not a professional Chair of
Australian Literature.
Page 29, column 2, the author of
Geoffrey Hamlyn was Henry Kingsley,
not Charles.
Also page 29, column 2, near the
foot of the column, my suggested


seventh phase in the systematic study
of Australian literature was Agricultural
Development, and not, as you printed
its heading, Queensland Development.
These are not serious blemishes in
what was otherwise a fair and full abridg-
ment of my discourse, but the correc-
tions may be necessary to deprive pounc-
ers on literal errors of whatever pleasure
their harmless pedantic pastime offers.
P. R. STEPHENSEN
Sydney,
Sir,
Mr P. R. Stephensen’s article is (one
hopes) meant to be provocative. I write
merely in defence of the academic re-
viewer, who is rather roughly handled
by Mr Stephensen.
In the three years I have been in Aus-
tralia I have reviewed a number of
books, in The Bulletin and elsewhere.
Some of these books I have praised;
some I have disparaged; both the praise
and the disparagement had nothing to
do, I believe, with any sort of belligerent
attitude about Australia. Had any editor
been kind enough to let me review
Riders in the Chariot or A. D. Hope’s
Poems, I would have sounded a very
loud trumpet of praise, despite my uni-
versity background.
I speak as a foreigner, of course
(though one from a nation that was
“colonialised” long before Mr Stephen-
sen’s perhaps mythical Australia). With-
out searching my memory or the files
for examples, I can point to a perceptive
and appreciative review in this week’s
Bulletin, a review which makes non-
sense of Mr Stephensen’s uneasy back-
biting about reviewers with a “university
background” and “who have never them-
selves been able to write books for
successful publication”. Could it be that
Mr Stephensen is a failed academic?
T. H. JONES
Dept of English, Newcastle
University College, NSW.
A TACKLE FOR HARVEY
Sir,
Would you please be kind enough to
put my mind at rest with regard to
Harvey’s cartoon on p. 15 of The Bul-
letin for June 16. As I read it, there
are at least two possible interpretations:
1. Harvey is being extremely subtle
and is saying that this potential suicide,
clearly a man of academic calling, having
perhaps failed in his management of his
life’s work is now about to cap it all by
failing in his attempt to put an end to
it all.
2. Harvey is sadly astray in his un-
derstanding of practical mechanics. The
machine he has devised, unless weight
‘W’ is fantastically dense and, at the
time of drawing, is being prevented from
descending by some ‘unseen force’, will
simply not give our man on the chair
‘O’ the blessed relief he so obviously re-
quires but will let him down most un-
sportingly to the floor, neck intact.
I would like to think that Harvey had
Explanation 1 in mind when he con-
cocted his opus but I fear it would be
straining the technical knowledge of most
general readers, even of The Bulletin.
Is it then that Harvey should do a little
experimenting in a quiet garage and
would you advise us in a later issue of
his ultimate success?
Arthur Burrage
Prahran (Victoria).
Sir,
I was pleased to see the influence of
science spread through your staff to the
cartoonists in the Bulletin of June 16,
1962 (due I presume to the presence
of an article by Harry Messel), but it
would have helped if your cartoonist,
Harvey, had looked up some facts. He
produced a drawing of a teacher hang-
ing himself by means of a block and
tackle pulley system, but the trouble is
that the noose was attached to the wrong
part of the system. In the set-up the
weight (W) would have to be four times
the weight of the teacher, and this is
far from probable. The noose and weight
(W) should be interchanged if the ven-
ture is to be a success, in which case
the weight (W) need only be a quarter
of that of the teacher.
K. SMITHERS
University of Sydney.
MARMITE AND RELISH
Sir,
As one interested in New Testament
Christianity applied to the barbarous
world of business, I deplore the failure
of Peter Kelly to see the elementary truth
and importance of what the Adventists
are doing in their business activities; and,
although I’m an Anglican, after reading
the letter from the Adventists’ Public
Relations Director, I now eat my Mar-
mite with more relish.
F. S. CLEMENTS
South Yarra (Victoria).
OUT OF TUNE
Sir,
In your report (Bulletin, April 28),
under the heading “OUT OF TUNE”,
it is obvious that your writer’s intention
was to bring me into public contempt.
Therefore I would appreciate your per-
mitting me to correct and explain the
position, and trust you will not refuse
me this privilege.
I am referring to the concerts at the
Sydney Town Hall by Halina Czerny-
Stefanska and her husband. First of all,
I am not the, or an, agent of Miss
Czerny-Stefanska. The remarks attri-
buted to me were most unkind, unfair
and misleading. The statement made by
Miss Czerny-Stefanska and reported in
your paper is a breach of contract, and
it was undiplomatic of her to quote the
Polish Consular officials; to be accused
of a “deliberate affront to their religion”
may have serious consequences. This was
not my intention, and if it is of interest
to your readers, there are factors of
availability of halls, etc. To compare
Miss Stefanska with other visiting Polish
artists and a local choir is not only poor
taste, but sheer ignorance.
One consolation I have derived from
this tour is that I have presented an out-
standing exponent of Chopin. That her
compatriots with the exception of a very
few, have not attended her recitals, shows
that apparently they were “not their cup
of Vodka”. Regarding the “timing was
bad”, it is hard to believe that any
sincere music lover would be concerned
with the time. If the public does not
want artists, in spite of wonderful critics,
you cannot STOP them from not coming
to a concert.
As the critics wrote glowing reports
about the first recital, the concert
manager’s job was complete. However
the critic of “The Sydney Morning
Herald”, after such a good write-up about
the first recital, suddenly, in an unethical
manner, attacked the management for
presenting a duo-recital. It may be of
interest to readers that the Melbourne
critics did not complain about it.
While the neurotic exposures were
poured on me in the above newspaper,
my written reply was rejected, which just
goes to show how hypocrisy succeeds
easily even by defenders of freedom of
Press and expression. I am very allergic
to hypocrites.
NATAN SCHEINWALD
Sydney.
AUSTRALIA’S CATHOLICS
Sir,
John Manning is to be congratulated
on his discovery that Australian Catholics
differ in matters of politics, philosophy
and artistic appreciation. He has further
succeeded in uniting these hitherto dis-
parate fields by the ingenious application
of the useful labels “Left” and “Right”
(“Left is what I like; “Right” is what that
other bastard likes). (Bulletin, June 9.)
It is clear that Mr Manning dislikes
the Movement, the Aquinas Academy,
and Father Thorne. His reasons remain
unclear, since he has cunningly disguised
them by random choice of words a
“Left” form of writing perhaps? We are
told, for instance, that Dr Woodbury has
been criticised for his “medieval
methods”; that his personality has a
“frustrating effect” on Catholics; and that
his Academy harbors “absolutism”
distinct, mark you, from a “necessary
absolutism” in “the world of relative
ideas”. All terribly sinister, no doubt (or
should it be “dexter”?) if one could but
unveil the meaning. Could it . . . could
it be that Woodbury actually teaches
Thomism as if he believes it?
Mr Manning shows his catholicity by
devoting about one quarter of the article
“Catholics in Australia” to Catholics in
America: notably one eccentric lavman
and one “Left” (but why?) Archbishop.
Here, although the tense changes remark-
ably, the sense does not. That which
does not exist, cannot change. He seems,
however, almost to approve the “Right”
Mr Buckley because that gentleman does
not have Papal Bulls for breakfast or
does the subtlety of his thought elude
me?
One wishes that Mr Manning would
acquire some first-hand knowledge of
Woodbury’s “medieval Pedagogics”. It
might even improve his logic.
Turner (ACT).
J. CLEARY


OVERSEAS
GERMAN ATOMIC OFFER TO FRANCE?
Germany is now looking to France—
not the US
From RAWLE KNOX in Berlin
Bonn, June 13
When Chancellor Adenauer goes
on his State visit to France next
month he will, according to in-
formed sources here, make a positive
offer to General de Gaulle to assist in
the French atomic development pro-
gramme. The West German Cabinet and
the Combined Services Staff are critical
of American strategical theories about
the defence of Europe in general and
Germany in particular. The expensive
shopping trip in the US of the Defence
Minister, Dr Franz Josef Strauss, to buy
arms, has convinced him that Washing-
ton is still not willing to make Nato a
truly independent atomic power.
The Kennedy Administration’s “pause”
theory has led to Nato demands that
West Germany increase her Army man-
power to 700,000 men—more regulars
than Hitler had in undivided Germany
before mobilisation in 1939. The
“pause” theory postulates that it must
be possible to hold Russia in Europe
with conventional weapons in the hope
that, if fighting did break out, it might
be possible to negotiate a truce before
atom and hydrogen bombs were used.
At the beginning of May, General
Norstad, Nato Supreme Commander,
asked West Germany to raise another
six 5000-man brigades. Four of these
would strengthen the defences in the
militarily weak northern zone of West
Germany; two would act as reinforce-
ments for Bonn’s present 12 divisions.
Later the divisional strength would also
be raised.
The Army commanders (as opposed
to the Combined Service Chiefs) were
all in favor of the American proposals.
They ran into a road block in the
Finance Ministry. West Germany is
already spending £l5OO million on
defence, and Dr Erhard, Minister for the
Economy, has set a definite ceiling of
£2OOO million on the armed forces.
A 700,000-man Army, plus the planned
increase of the new Luftwaffe to 700
American PIO4 fighters (at £500,000
a plane) would go through the Finance
Ministry’s roof. In addition, the
Americans want the frontier police and
territorial reserve increased, to prevent
possible border infiltration and to have
forces handy in case of surprise para-
troop attacks.
Already West German reservists and
territorials are supposed to have their
uniforms and guns ready at home.
The Army general staff is lobbying
in Bonn with the argument that if West
Germany goes along with the American
plan she will have so much the largest
ground force in Nato that everyone else
will have to listen to her. Most
Europeans here and some Americans
realise that this is political dynamite.
Four hundred thousand Sudeten Deuts-
che have just held their fourteenth post-
war Whitsun reunion in Frankfurt; and
the West German Press is fascinatedly
reviewing the American David L.
Hoggan’s book “The Enforced War”,
on the ground that it exonerates Hitler
from initiating World War 11.
Herr Strauss’ ideas are more practical.
He sees West Germany as the front line
of world defence against Communism,
and has small belief that the Russians
would observe President Kennedy’s
“pause”. To the Army chief’s argument
that a strengthening of ground forces
would earn Russia’s respect, while
atomic armament would only generate
her mistrust, he has been known to reply
with some rather coarse Bavarian words.
The Finance Ministry, however, is
putting a brake on Herr Strauss’ atomic
ambitions. In the end they might cost
much more than the 700,000-man Army.
The purposeful Defence Minister, who
in his own field gets the complete back-
ing of Chancellor Adenauer, has there-
fore decided upon a frustrated com-
promise. The naval and air forces will
be kept to a minimum. At sea, the US
has already promised to provide Nato
with Polaris-equipped submarines. In
the air, West German experiments to
rebuild the PIO4 (“Starfighter”) as a
fighter-bomber have proved interesting
but expensive. The West Germans, like
the Americans, believe immediate re-
taliation is the best defence, and
attempts have been made to convert the
PI 04 into a “side-ejector” low-level
bomber—one that can throw the atomic
bomb out sideways and escape without
feeling the blast. The plant for whole-
sale conversion of the fighters has not
yet been built.
In Bonn, the Foreign Ministry under-
stands that while General de Gaulle is
no longer willing to station any large
number of French troops in West
Germany, he will pledge his atomic
force, when he gets his army back from
Algeria, to the Federal Republic’s
defence. With full West German co-
operation, French atomic development
might well increase much more rapidly,
it is thought here, and Bonn influence
in Western councils —which the Army
chiefs envisage in terms of large ground
forces could become immeasurably
greater.
“They are getting at us by the back
door again,” said a Western diplomat
who had better be nameless, “but this
time they are blasting it open.” If the
French and West Germans together
develop strategical and tactical atomic
weapons they will undoubtedly exercise
a military veto on American plans they
do not happen to like. According to
some Nato officers, the greatest danger
of all is that Russia will appreciate this
development, and blast off first. In the
old days you started a war on your
neighbor when you got your harvest in
before his; now you attack when you
are sure he is not in the high megaton
range.


HIDING IN THE RICE PADDIES
Sealed trains are safer than trucks
From BETTY SAUNDERS
Outside the teeming refugee re-
settlement block someone touched
my arm, eagerly, impulsively.
Turning, I saw it was the 15-year-old
Hakka girl—one of a group of refugees
I had helped smuggle in from Commu-
nist China a week earlier.
A Chinese friend, Mr Andrew Tso
and I had come looking for her and
her two smuggled brothers, but she had
found us first, and small wonder. We
had attracted a cortege of the Hong
Kong small-fry. They clacked deliber-
ately about us in their mouse-sized
wooden sandals, with even tinier siblings
strapped to their backs.
They watched with grave interest this
curious reunion. I pointed questioningly
to my protegee’s hair. She put her hand
shyly and proudly to the trim curly cap
where last week had hung an incrimin-
ating Communist straight bob. Her
Hong Kong relative (a “must” if you’re
going to make a dash for it from Com-
munist Kwangtung province into the
Crown colony) had, happily, been a
barber. The girl, whose name was Yun
Yu, had thus received a sop to her
burgeoning femininity as well as the
removal of a politically risky hairstyle.
Looking around at the Hong Kong
infants, it seemed to me they were a little
seedier-looking than when I was last
here two years ago. Was the influx of
poor relations taking its toll—more feet
under the table, less rice in the bowls?
Even allowing for the enervating pre-
typhoon humidity, surely they were
thinner, tireder-looking? I itched to whip
out my handkerchief and wipe several
dozen diminutive noses.
Yun Yu was one of more than 60,000
“illegal immigrants” who flooded into
Hong Kong last month. She slept, she
told me, on a board between two chairs
in her uncle’s barber-shop. Seven other
people shared the room, but this was
luxury compared to the thousands of
earlier refugees who for years had
rented stair-space, under-bed space or
tiny curtained ‘cubicles’, a slice of room
the width of their bodies.
She now earned her keep doing the
laundry, helping her aunt with the baby,
getting up at 4 a.m. to tote a few dozen
buckets of rationed Hong Kong water
from the communal tap to the ground-
floor shop. Her brothers, billeted else-
where, had not been so lucky. No jobs
as yet and nothing to do all day but
stay out of sight. On Mr Tso’s advice,
none of the family had yet registered
with British Crown Colony authorities.
“Better wait and see,” was his enig-
matic comment.
It all seemed a long way from the rice
paddies outside Sheung Shui, a village
in Hong Kong’s New Territories, where
I had found Yun Yu and her brothers
the week before. The foreground of rich
rural plains was a Disney idyll. Tender
new rice in the paddies, bobbing coolie
hats, lethargic water-buffalo, matronly
charcoal-grey pigs with fussy bantam out-
riders—the lot.
But the backdrop was theatre, because
the backdrop was refugees.
I first saw them strung high against
the mild and humid morning as they
made their weary, orderly way along the
dragon-backed silhouette of the Chinese
hills. I was reminded of a dance of death
sequence I had seen in an Ingmar Berg-
mann film.
The living frieze wound methodically
down the high passes, disappearing, re-
appearing, and finally spilling into a fan-
shaped mass along foothills overlooking
a river.
I didn’t hear the calls at first, and
when I did they drifted down thinly,
almost inextricably mingled with the
sharp cries of Sheung Shui’s pampered
ducks. It occurred to me then that
people trapped in wreckage must have
sounded substantially the same plain-
tive and urgent.
They were calling to their Hong Kong
relatives calling them by name. Re-
porters from Hong Kong Chinese dailies
were there talking to the refugees, re-
cording their names and border locations
for the benefit of Crown Colony rela-
tives.
Making a successful rendezvous was
not easy, however. The border was 12
miles long and even those refugees lucky
enough to get their names through were
not always sure of being able to stay at
any pre-arranged location.
Particularly after the British, alarmed
for the welfare of Hong Kong’s already
jam-packed millions, had brought heli-
copters on to the border scene.
Families seeking their kin were carry-
ing clothes as well as bread and cigar-
ettes. Clothes were all-important. Unless
the participants in this king-size gaol-
break could quickly shed their tell-tale
blue Communist China uniform of
jacket, pants and cap, they were in
trouble. Sodden bundles of discarded
clothes littering the riverbank and near-
by paddies bore witness to this.
Police and army patrols flushed all
‘blue-jackets’ from the paddies and
loaded them aboard trucks southbound
for Fanling holding station a few miles
downroad. There they had a meal be-
fore resuming their round trip home.
The day after we were there, auth-
orities decided sealed trains were safer
than trucks. Crowds throwing bread and
cigarettes were slowing the trucks in their
return dash to the border, and refugees
took advantage of the slackened speed
to make what was often a dangerous
leap for freedom. Naturally enough,
emotion ran high as people caught
glimpses of distressed children and rela-
tives in the packed trucks.
Well, we had come to the border to
see the refugees so, after a bit of amateur
patrol-dodging and roadblock-skirting,
we made it out across the paddies to
the river, which was serving as a sort
of natural dividing line, although still
within the border.
We were rewarded almost immediately
with a soaked and sorry-looking trio of
youths crouching biblically among the
reeds on our side of the river. They were
wet through from their swim and bobb-
ing up and down, open-mouthed, wide-
eyed, and almost comically afraid of the
distant patrols.
Their bid seemed so predestined to
failure that Mr Tso and I decided on the
spot to go back into Sheung Shui and
buy them a set of “civvies” each. After
plying them with bread and the inevit-
able cigarettes, we told them to stay
down out of sight and wait for us.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£A413,000,000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
They disappeared like ducks in a
shooting gallery and, with new purpose,
we threaded our way back among the
aimlessly wandering, calling Hong Kong
Chinese. A frail-looking old woman de-
tained Mr Tso and showed him some-
thing written on paper. She dabbed at
her eyes with a handkerchief. These
were the first tears I had seen, and with
true Chinese restraint there seemed more
dabbing than tears. It seemed she had
read her son’s name in the newspaper
lists. He was out here somewhere, but
her problem was that she had been
forced to give him away ten years ago
when he was ten and now, how could
she recognise him or he her? She wanted
Mr Tso to go back with her and call,
but mindful of our damp young men, he
had to make his apologies and hurry on.
She walked towards the river and hills,
calling her son’s name in a quavering
voice that was almost inaudible to us, a
few yards away.
Shabby and hungry
close to the road a larger than
usual group of people attracted our
attention. Peering through them, we saw
Yun Yu and her two brothers (16 and
17), standing stockstill in the midst of
their discoverers with what I believe is
called Oriental resignation.
Even in their patched and faded blue
they made an attractive trio, the boys
slim and alert, and Yun Yu almost de-
mure. I noted the pink plastic string tied
round one lank lock of her Communist
bob.
They were young, they were charm-
ing, they were shabby and hungry, they
had walked close to 90 miles barefoot,
this was their seventh attempt to cross
the border, and most important, they
were brothers and sister.
Clearly, the crowd reasoned, it was
Buddha’s will that these children be
helped. And so it was that 15 minutes
later, in Sheung Shui’s market centre,
we found our shopping list now ran to
shirts, pants and rubber shoes for six.
Once “disguised”, the rest was fairly
easy. The main difficulty lay in getting
the six of them to look nonchalant as
we passed patrols on our walk back to
the car, which was parked in Sheung
Shui. Somehow or other we made it.
The children didn’t have the street-
number of their relatives in Kowloon
so we drove them to a nearby pig and
chicken farm owned by a friend of Mr
Tso’s (two roadblocks successfully passed
. . . after the first keen, raking glance
into the car, no questions asked and no
passports demanded).
The youths’ relations all lived inside
Hong Kong proper, so to avoid suspicion
we took them separately three 20-
mile trips. One youth in the back seat of
a car could easily pass for a cook-boy;
three or even two together at this time
would arouse suspicion.
Again the roadblock policemer waved
us on with a courteous salute.
The youths and the children both
told us of rice rationing in Kwangtung.
The youths (one a 21-year-old scholar
and two 25-year-old mine electricians)
were from Canton and on city rations
of about 20 catties per person per month.
(A catty is a little over a pound).
They had fled, not because of the
rice ration (which was not far below
normal because of their priority jobs),
but from Chou En-lai’s orders to aban-
don their city careers to work on farms.
The Big Leap Forward had meant hard-
ship for the communes and the stigma
died hard, despite Chou’s stated inten-
tion of switching emphasis and hence,
by implication, rice, from heavy industry
back to agriculture.
The children, all three middle-school
pupils from a small village in the com-
munes, told a different story. They had
had to supplement their ration of five
catties per person per month with an
illegal sweet potato patch. It would be
worse this year, their mother had said.
She knew millions were coming from
the cities. She sent them while they could
still make the 90-mile hike. After a
while, when they got jobs, they could
join with the million other Hong Kong
Chinese who sent food parcels over the
border every month.
So they burned incense tapers before
the domestic Buddha and set off.
The May exodus set the world guess-
ing. Why did it start and why wasn’t
it immediately stopped? Only days be-
fore Communist border guards were still
shooting at would-be escapees.
The earliest guess was that the Com-
munist Chinese wished to embarrass
overcrowded Hong Kong already
gripped by a textile unemployment crisis
—and discredit it as a haven.
Later, Old China Hands thought that
China might be trying to force the British
to seal the border in self-defence, leav-
ing it open at one point only (Lowu
Bridge), thus making it almost impossible
for high-level defecters to dodge the
hard times coming.
More lurid guesses followed
• This marked the opening of Chinese
large-scale aggression in Asia, with
hungry hordes of refugees swarming
like locusts, stripping all in the path
of an invading Red army.
• Master-Spy John Tsang, deported
earlier this year from his top brass
Hong Kong job (deputy-command-
ant of police training school) was
personally directing the exodus from
the mainland, in a sort of mammoth
grudge fight.
Nobody knows, but former Peking-
based newsmen believe they had the
key.
China, they point out, is vast and un-
wieldy, and distant provinces have mis-
interpreted Peking commands before
this. A famine-triggered “ease-off” in-
junction may have been too literally
read by the provincial authorities in
semi-autonomous Kwangtung. Before the
men in the central capital realised it,
the exodus had got out of hand.
One thing is clear. China has its hands
full trying to regear itself to Chou’s
“Ten Tasks”. His manpower migration
from city to country involves reducing
the populations of Canton, Shanghai and
other great cities by at least one-third.
Whirlpools of this magnitude are bound
to spill over at the edges.
The important thing is that world
attention has been focused on China
and there is a growing feeling that
China —Communist, Nationalist or Fab-
ian—will remain a world problem.
It is not enough to blame the Com-
munists for crop failure. China has
walked with famine for generations but
the days when we could dismiss it as a
distant calamity are passing.


Around Melbourne
NOW THEY CALL HIM "SATCHMO" BOLTE
Voung reporters who worked the
police rounds dog-watch, 7 p.m.
to 3 a.m., used to have their dreams.
Don’t get me wrong; they looked
upon their fellow citizens with great
kindness, but to ease the awful
monotony they hoped for two things:
• That there would be a frightful
bloody murder that would go un-
solved for a week.
® That the city’s vast and ancient
Exhibition Building would catch
alight and so cause the finest fire
that this country had ever seen.
A murder would have been nice
but I think most of all we wanted
to burn the Exhibition. No cruelty
would be involved. Some city
councillors for half a century had
been hollering to have it pulled down
even though it cost £50,000 to paint
it and the gentlemen at the fire
brigade had sleepless nights even
thinking about it.
But in any city there is a gentle
change in outlook which could be
termed “Batman’s Law”. It takes 30
years for a certain type of building to
become a monstrosity, 60 years for it
to become quaint, and 80 years before
it becomes lovable, to be preserved at
all costs over the shed blood of the
historical societies. The Exhibition
Building is not only lovable but
recently it has become a beautiful
money spinner.
Indeed, we look upon our lovable
white elephant as one of the six best
exhibition halls in the world and
right now the trustees are spending
half a million on permanent ex-
tensions that will cover 64,000 square
feet. All this is being done for a
£lOO,OOO International Trade Fair
to be staged by the Chamber of Com-
merce come next February.
Well, dammit, what I want to know
is this - Is the Chamber of Commerce
planning to live up to the traditions
of the great exhibitions of 1880 and
1888? The Carlton Brewery was so
terribly impressed by the 1888 show
that the Foster’s Lager label has
carried the fact that it won a medal
there ever since. We built our
grand building for the 1880 ex-
hibition. Sydney tried to steal a march
on us by putting up their own
exhibition building and getting in a
year early in 1879.
However, the Melbourne “Herald”
was able to point out on our opening
day, October 1, 1880, that the Sydney
affair was very hurriedly got up, and
its overseas exhibits few and un-
important, whereas the opening of
Victoria’s first International Ex-
hibition was a spectacle such as had
never been witnessed in the history
of the world, in a community not 50
years old.
Soon after the Sydney Exhibition
Building was burnt down. Their
police roundsmen must have been
more enterprising than ours.
For the Melbourne Chamber of
Commerce here are a few tips what
they might do. For opening day,
1880, there were the ships of five
navies in the bay. There was a vast
procession through the city, there
were fireworks, there was an almost
interminable cantata which was com-
posed for the occasion, sung by a
choir of 900 and played by an
orchestra of 90. At the splendid art
display the gold medal of honor was
awarded to Chloe, the gorgeous nude
by Chevalier Jules Lefebre. Chloe
has lent distinction to one of our top
beer drinking pubs ever since, and we
expect the 1963 exhibition to unearth
a lady of equal (unclad) calibre.
The present extensions will spread
the size of the exhibition to 11 acres.
In 1888 the organisers went beserk.
They put up a building that covered
35i acres of the Carlton Gardens and
they spent £60,000 on electric light,
the largest single installation of arc
lighting that had been attempted any-
where in the world. What did they
have on display? What didn’t they
have! Turkish baths, blunderbusses,
pianos, locomotives, reapers, hand-
powered washing machines, type-
writers, real American chewing gum,
and, most exciting of all, Mr Edison’s
phonograph.
All this at the height of the land
boom, when gay Melbourne was
known as a real devil of a city.
Yes, we expect something rather
special from this 1963 International
Trade Fair. Perhaps the worthy
Chamber could even repeat the Ex-
hibition’s National Baby Show of
1889. It was such a success that 700
babies took part. Sadly 699 mothers
did not agree with the choice of the
judges and there was such a riot
that the 700th mother and baby had
to be rescued by the police. But still
it is an idea. It is 73 years since we
had a decent baby show.
★ ★ ★
poor Mr Bolte was wronged
last week. He has been thrown
into yet another hideous battle
between Melbourne and Sydney. An
AAP message quoted “The Times” as
saying that a great deal of blowing
was done in Victoria. “But”, it said,
“the blast of the trumpet as heard
in Victoria is louder than all the
blasts —and the Melbourne blast beats
all the other blowing of that proud
colony”.
Could this be true? That “The
Times” of all papers was still calling
us a colony. Well, it wasn’t true. The
AAP message neglected to mention
the fact that “The Times” actually
was quoting from Anthony Trollope.
When he visited Melbourne in 1871,
Mr Trollope wrote:
“They blow a good deal in Queens-
land—a good deal in South Australia.
They blow even in poor Tasmania.
They blow loudly in New South
Wales, and very loudly in New
Zealand. But the blast of the trumpet
as heard in Victoria is louder than
all the blasts and the Melbourne
blasts beats all the other blowing of
that proud colony.”
So the very pleasant controversy
exploded all through an incorrect re-
port and Mr Heffron commented that
possibly Mr Bolte would appreciate
being put into the class of “Louis
“Satchmo” Armstrong as a champion
hornblower, but he himself was not
an expert on wind instruments. Now
Mr Heffron’s comment was taken
very well in Victoria. We had been
looking for years for a suitable name
for Mr Bolte, but somehow it had
always escaped us.
Then at the weekend Mr Bolte
arrived home in person. To the re-
porters he said: “It was a most satis-
fying and rewarding trip, educational
and at times fascinating. I met the
heads of every country I visited. In
the London business world the name
of Victoria has never stood so high.”
We thought that “Satchmo” Bolte
was blowing particularly well.
BATMAN


FORUM
JOHN ANDERSON
Recovering from a stammer
By PETER COLEMAN
When I first went to Sydney
University just after the war
a way of life, which has now
largely disappeared, was still flourishing
there. It had its own rules and rituals
binding on all adherents —a stammer, a
stoop, pipe-sucking, jitterbugging, read-
ing detective stories, beer-drinking, sing-
ing bawdy anti-clerical songs, muttering
“huh-huh”, saluting each other by
waving an open palm, contemptuous ir-
reverence for all academics, all intellec-
tuals, all journalists—everybody indeed
except someone called John. Occasionally
one of them would remark “of course,
John is the only man in the world com-
pletely without illusions” and the others
would nod quietly (“Illusion” was the
group word for mortal sin—not quite
as bad as “confusion,” which was only
venal).
They were—need one say—the Ander-
sonians. Their groupishness irritated out-
siders, particularly since they managed
to throw up an holier-than-thou (or
more-deviiish-than-thou?) atmosphere and
to convey that they were the fortunate
initiates of profound secret doctrines.
Certainly this was intriguing even if
only because, apart from them, the uni-
versity seemed a pretty dull place. But
it was also intriguing to me because the
Andersonians were supposed to be apos-
tles of Free Thought, which to my juve-
nile mind meant Progress; and coming
from a home that believed in Progress,
Peace, Rationalism and President Roose-
velt, I naturally expected to find the
Freethinkers echoing my own prejudices.
In fact they seemed to regard them all
with terrible contempt.
President Roosevelt, for example, was
a symbol of all that was bad in the
world: he had promulgated a doctrine
of servility which he called the Four
Freedoms and he had sold out half of
Europe to the Communists. Over in
Mosman we had virtuously sent off a lot
of Sheepskins for Russia during the war
and it was a bit overpowering to be
told in so many words by Professor
Anderson or other Freethought Society
lecturers such as J. J. Maloney, MLC,
or W. C. Wentworth, that we had been
idiots. Or take Labor’s 1944 powers
referendum: every decent Progressive
wanted to see the Federal Government
have more power to build Mr Chifley’s
Golden Age but here was a man who
had the decency to attack religion and
censorship yet was vicious enough to
crusade against the Federal Government
and to vote No in the referendum. Or
take religion: every right-thinking youth
knew the Rationalist Association was a
good thing, but according to Professor
Anderson the Rationalists had ridiculous
semi-religious illusions of Progress (any
fool knows the world is growing more
barbarous daily) and they seemed riddled
with fellow-travellers.
When Professor John Anderson re-
tired from the Challis Chair of Phil-
osophy in Sydney University in 1959,
a Testimonial Fund was launched to
raise money to finance the publishing
of a book of his articles and to com-
mission William Dobell to paint his
portrait. The portrait appears on the
cover of this BULLETIN; the book,
“Studies in Empirical Philosophy”,
published by Angus and Robertson,
is due out shortly. In this issue as
well as a profie of John Anderson we
are publishing some brief statements
by a random selection of the people
from various walks of life who at one
time or another were influenced by
him. The years in brackets after the
names on pages 29-30 are years in
which the writers studied under Pro-
fessor Anderson.
It was all very baffling, even repelling.
Curiosity, however, overcame my repug-
nance. In due course by assiduous at-
tendance at Freethought and Literary
Society meetings and Philosophy lectures
I found my sins, my illusions, being
washed away and I was reborn a Free-
thinker (you must spell it as one
word) without illusions of Progress,
Security, Socialism, the Four Freedoms
and what-have-you. It wasn’t hard to
master the rituals and secret signs
(though I didn’t like beer and couldn’t
stand detective stories) or to master the
new dialect: a constant reshuffling of
such words as “meliorism”, “relativism”,
“rationalism”, “solidarism”, “volunta-
rism” —all bad or “virulent” words —and
one or two good ones such as “ob-
jective”. In fact one soon realised what
reassuring words these were: almost
anything one said in discussion would in
Anderson’s eyes have some shameful
“confusion” latent in it and the words
were useful talismen to indicate that
even if one were “confused” one was
on the right track. In a frightening world
you couldn’t go wrong with such words
—particularly if you stammered them.
They saved you thinking too.
But this realization was for the future.
In the meantime I was glad to be one
of the Exclusive Brethren despite its
terrors. One day I was standing in the
quadrangle sun and apparently my arm
was covered with chalk. I felt someone
brushing it with his hand. I turned and
saw the tall stooped figure and brown
pop eyes of Professor Anderson. I felt
so honored that such a great man would
bother with such small matters as my
appearance that probably in gratitude I
rushed off to a Labor Club meeting to
attack the Communist Party. Of such
trivia is an adolescent’s loyalty made.
HPoday I think that the most tangible
influence Anderson had on me was
this purging of my more naive pro-
gressive ideas. But with luck I might
have grown up anyhow. There was an-
other thing that was more important.
At Anderson’s philosophy lectures one
received some inkling of what creative
speculation is like. There is nothing
histrionic about Anderson’s lecturing
style. Though he is sometimes pas-
sionate he is also sometimes difficult to
catch because of his Scottish accent.
But in his lectures one began to realize
what the books meant by great thought,
by philosophic speculating. The best
lectures had an atmosphere of music or
poetry about them. Attending his lec-
tures could not have been less like attend-
ing lectures merely for the sake of collec-


ting information. As Peter Shrubb says
on page 29 they gave the Philosophy
Room the air of a church. These lectures
were an exhilarating experience for a
youth after the war: they were no doubt
even more exhilarating before the war
when Anderson was in his most creative
period—which may account for the in-
tense loyalty of many pre-war Ander-
sonians compared with the post-war
crop.
After one sees the absurdity of his
followers’ stoops and stammers, and also
after one rejects many of his general
ideas, it is the knowledge of this expe-
rience that makes the word “Ander-
sonian” a useful label to group all sorts
of people who by now disagree bitterly
on almost everything and can’t stand the
sight of each other.
Tohn Anderson was born on Novem-
** ber 1, 1893, in Lanarkshire, a radical
centre in the west of Scotland. His
father was a schoolmaster and he grew
up in an atmosphere of socialism and
anti-clericalism. He studied philosophy
and mathematics at Glasgow University,
he was rejected as medical class C 2
when he tried to enlist in 1915, he
married his fellow-student Janet Baillie
in 1922 and his son Sandy was born
in 1923. Philosophically among the early
influences on him William James from
America and Samuel Alexander from
Melbourne were of major importance.
Politically his socialist background and
the British General Strike of 1926 which
brought him close to the Communist
Party would also have been major in-
fluences. And in the same year, 1926,
he was appointed Professor of Philo-
sophy at Sydney.
Oddly enough at first sight, it was
his most conventional and least interes-
ting opinions that got him into most
trouble in Australia —his criticisms of
patriotism and religion. In 1932 after
one of his attacks on patriotism had
provoked the rage of professional
“patriots” and conservative State politi-
cians the University Senate reached
rock-bottom and passed a motion of
censure on him. Nine years later after
a public attack on the harmful effect of
religious teachings in schools the Legis-
lative Council again demanded that the
Senate discipline him, but this time the
Senate told the Council that there were
no religious tests in the University. In
both cases the controversies lasted for
weeks, and if today they seem rather
boring stories it may be that the for-
midable theoretical background he gave
to his attacks made them more stinging
than the same points made by more run-
of-the-mill freethinkers. Probably now
their value is as an index of how provin-
cial Australia then was.
Far more significant was his involve-
ment with really live issues such as
socialism and the Communist Party.
Soon after he reached Australia he was
involved in the faction fights of the then
tiny Communist Party and writing for
the “Workers’ Weekly” under the name
of A. Spencer as well as his own name.
It was then that he learned his basic
lessons in Communist tactics. Influenced
by the revolutionary doctrine that a real
workers’ party should cut itself off from
the bourgeois reformist Labor Party, he
was one of those who helped install
Sharkey in power and throw out the
Right-wing leaderships of Kavanagh.
When Sharkey as an implacable Stalinist
and tool of the Kremlin began forging his
Party into a totalitarian weapon, Ander-
son realized his own folly and naivete.
He joined the Australian Workers’ Party
which as a Trotskyist organisation sup-
ported the anti-Stalin leftists in Russia
as well as continuing to preach a
workers’ revolution in the world. By
1937 he began to attack the Trotskyists
for not being sufficiently anti-Soviet or
anti-totalitarian. Gradually he began
dropping all his old ideas —his belief in
“the workers” as a liberal progressive
movement, his belief in revolution, the
remnants of his Marxism, and finally his
belief in any form of socialism or leftism.
By the early 1940 s he had reached
his present position—a conservative
pluralist liberalism. In 1944 he was a
States Right man against the encroach-
ments of the Federal bureaucracy, by
1949 he was supporting the use of troops
against the Communist gangsters. He
had come the full circle from Bolshevism
to democracy. This is not in itself an
amazing thing but his political educa-
tion had been a public one so that every-
one associated with it was also involved
in a searching examination of their own
ideas. His experience of revolutionary
movements also led him to his present
pluralistic theory of society. Not the
least result of it all was that he inocul-
ated a couple of generations of students
not only against Communism but against
fellow-travelling. Many of the people
he has influenced may remain socialists
but never on Unity Tickets.
Anderson is now 68. In recent years
the only important controversy he has
been involved in—apart from silly
attacks on him by some leading Angli-
cans last year—has been the case of
S. S. Orr, whose cause he champions.
(He believes the University of Tasmania
breached basic principles of academic
self-government in the manner of dis-
missing him). The question arises what
does this turbulent career amount to?
Apart from anti-Communism among
students his influence has not been an
obvious one. It would be easy to get
a list of Andersonian graduates and tick
off their present jobs, but it would be
impossible to find any real connection. In'
practice almost none of them would be
applying Andersonian doctrines in their
work. Is there any connection, for
example, between Elwyn Lynn’s Ander-
sonian training and his winning the Blake
Prize for Religious Painting?
Probably it is only a few philosophers
who continue to teach Anderson’s par-
ticular doctrines, but even here, as always
happens when a dominating personality
retires, many followers have begun with
a sense of relief the revision of views
they had not formerly dared criticise. In
almost all other fields his followers have
long ago fallen away. The most obvious
cases are in the arts. Anderson has
always been interested in theories of
aesthetics and theories of culture but as
far as the arts are concerned the Ander-
sonian movement as a whole has been a
fairly philistine one. Their interest and
taste in literature, music or painting has
been poor. (The only book they read
was “Ulysses”). Their interest in morals
and manners has been on the whole
trivial: unless you put “ism” on the
end of it, nothing in human affairs
seem worthy of interest in them —an
attitude inevitably bound to repel
novelists or poets. His political views
have been too “negative” and critical to
inspire public policies.
But it would be wrong to dismiss the
matter by saying he has had no influence
beyond some small service in the anti-
Communist cause. His lasting influence
has been to show a few people the ex-
citement of disinterested thinking and
criticism: they have then gone off to
different or opposed walks of life and
their experience with Anderson comes
out in their way of doing things not in
what they do. Anderson’s influence must
be intangible. His greatness is as a
thinker, not as a propagandist. Let those
who want to, stick an “ism” on it.


SOME ANDERSONIANS
and others, on John Anderson
Peter Shrubb (1945-49), writer
Philosophy Room is cold, ill lit,
and stony; people stop laughing
when they squeeze in through the swing
doors that separate it from the bright
warm world outside. It is as unworldly as
a church, but nothing in it appears to
soar, nothing is graceful. Nothing in it is
comfortable, even; the desks are too high,
the seats are too far from the desks, and
the backs of the seats are curved in ways
the backs of the people who sit in them
aren’t.
Here, shivering, my Philosophy I class
sat on the morning of March 20, 1945,
waiting to hear its first lecture from
Professor Anderson. This was the intro-
duction to a series on the Apology,
Socrates’ defence at his trial, and before
it was half over I already had the bull
by the toot; I was young and foolish,
and I was not sure which was Socrates
and which was John Anderson. One
was short, strikingly ugly, and wore a
sort of toga; the other was tall, strikingly
handsome, and wore a blue suit. But
these differences were superficial. They
were great men, and men of the same
kind.
Great men are paradigmatic; perhaps,
indeed, one of our intentions in calling a
man great is not simply to say that he
appears to have influenced many other
lives deeply, but that in the exercise of
this influence he has exemplified a quality
that, like Churchill’s juicy doggedness,
say, we recognise to be a virtue. One of
the virtues is intellectual independence.
We might like to say, indeed, that inde-
pendence and love are all the virtues;
certainly, the capacity for independent
intellectual enquiry is one of them, and a
virtue that is both one of the reasons for
and part of the answer to the question
what do men live by.
This is a question many Philosophy
I students thought important, and the
part of the answer John Anderson demon-
strated is, like a good man, hard to find.
Juicy doggedness is not so hard, nor is
unselfishness, nor is courage; they are
common enough in life, and you can read
about them in novels. In novels, though,
philosophers seem unconvincing. Intellec-
tual independence is more likely to be
found in the novelist than in one of his
characters, in the poet than in the poem,
and even then found not in pure form.
Professor Anderson showed us in his
manner, in his mood, and in his face, as
well as in the philosophy he argued, a
quality we were not likely to find so
clearly and intensely apparent elsewhere;
disinterested intellectual enquiry was as
rare in 1945 as it is now, and as it was in
400 B.C. He demonstrated Socrates: he
showed what the dialogues tell. It was
an ugly room he did it in, but what he
did was beautiful.
James McAuley (1935-37), poet
A nderson was a good teacher. This is
the more obvious because his class-
room method was bad he dictated
slowly, and we wrote it down. Which only
goes to show that so-called “method” is
the least of educational problems. Ander-
son’s teaching was good because he ful-
filled the first requirement of a teacher,
which is that he must have a “doctrine”
and come clean with it. For the student
will come to have a mind of his own all
the better for first experiencing through
his teacher’s views what it is to have a
mind at all.
I think Anderson’s position was in its
full development in the middle and late
’thirties. When I sat in again on some
classes later, things seemed to be coming
apart. Reality was still “propositional”,
but nobody was quite so sure what that
could be made to mean.
My own first resistances centred on
one of the outlying parts of Anderson’s
work, which he himself acknowledged to
contain unresolved difficulties: the field
of aesthetics. One could not even begin
to apply Anderson’s view to arts other
than literary, and when applied to litera-
ture it had the effect of a bath of acid,
dissolving the corpus until only one tell-
tale relic was left, Joyce’s “Ulysses”.
It is true that Anderson came near to
identifying intellectual activity with “the
critical spirit”. The position, I felt, could
in the end be summed up fairly well in the
formula: The answer to every conceivable
question is No. But sooner even this, one
also felt —and I feel more than ever—
than that insipid gelatinous amorphous
conformist opportunism which passes for
liberal humanism in most academies.
Elwyn Lynn (1938-39), painter
Tt was so long ago that I became an
Andersonian that I must have been
very young. I did two years’ philosophy
at Sydney University (1938, 1939),
and became involved in Andersonian
activities and thinking: for me this was
militant rationalism, critical Marxism,
anti-censorship, an acceptance of being
in the permanent opposition, and the
application of psycho-analysis to the
arts and support of pluralist notions of
society.
The most abiding influence has been
in aesthetics. I was secretary of the
Freethought Society for a short time
and was interested in the Literary
Society where the views of Anderson’s
“Some Questions in Aesthetics” generally
prevailed. This small, but tremendously
influential pamphlet, removed aesthetic
judgment from mere subjective reactions.
Aesthetic qualities, Andersonians said,
were objective and could be investigated
like many others. I am still quite
opposed to the idea that works of art
are simply to be enjoyed and are some-
how destroyed by being analysed.
But I now think that our opinions on
aesthetic qualities of painting (the late
Oliver Sommerville influenced me here),
were too formal and failed to account for
the strong conviction that emotions are
in some way associated intimately with
works of art: now I am more inclined
to support the view that art symbolises
the emotions.
Generally what remains with me
above all is the conviction that aesthetic
qualities are objective and that aesthetic
judgments are intellectual ones.
Donald Horne (1939-41), journalist
Whatever detailed criticisms people
may care to make about either
the man himself or his system of philo-
sophy, and whether these criticisms are
true or untrue, surely Anderson’s prime
importance was simply as a professor of
philosophy, as someone who introduced
undergraduates and academics not only
to his own system of philosophy but to a
whole approach to discussion. In this
sense he represented what I would con-
sider to be one of the best human tradi-
tions: that at least some of us should
seek the truth, examine facts dispas-
sionately and be concerned with the
validity or argument even if this results
in the destruction of our illusions or
indeed —at times, if the occasion is
worth it—the destruction of some of our
other interests.
It is in the application of this ap-
proach that differences of opinion occur;
there are even differences of opinion on
how well Anderson applied it himself.
But to discuss this is to discuss human
nature. What people did with Ander-
son’s influence, or what it did to them,
varied with their nature. It is frivolous
to discuss a man by the subsequent
history of those who have once been, or
have remained his disciples.
There were several other particular
influences that stayed with some of us:


the belief that both societies and human
personalities are not all of a piece, for
example, that they are both of them
made up of many parts, some in conflict;
and the belief that merely wishing that
something will happen will not necessa-
rily cause it to happen, that what
happens to political or social policies
depends on many factors other than the
nature of the policies themselves; and
the belief that Russian ideologies were
a murderous hoax perpetuated by as-
sassins.
To some of us the anti-practical, anti-
active side of Anderson’s teachings, and
the sheer destructiveness of some of his
attitudes were things that we had to
work our way through, the kind of thing
that sorts itself out in time. Those who
did this may now seem defaulters. Some
of those who did not seem half-men to
us defaulters. But one has the suspicion
that that was not Anderson’s fault. They
may have been half-men anyway.
F. C. Hutley (1932-34), lawyer
A person may influence the law in
three ways: in its practical admin-
istration; in its content; or in the field
of theory. Professor John Anderson has
not affected the content of the law in
this State; his criticisms of specific laws,
such as the law of censorship or defama-
tion, have been ignored by the legisla-
tors; but since a substantial number of
lawyers study in the Arts before proceed-
ing to the Faculty of Law, and in the
1930 s and 1940 s students who had
studied under him or been inspired by
him, were prominent in the list of
Medallists and Honours graduates in the
Law School, some influence may have
been expected here.
However, the precedent system reduces
legal reasoning to the exegesis of statutes
and the search for what has been said
by judges in England and Australia in
the past. Criticism of any general kind
finds no place in the daily work of a
lawyer.
So despite the stream of able students
entering the Law' School, the theoretical
work on law inspired by Professor An-
derson is not large. In 1941 I found my-
self Acting Lecturer in Jurisprudence for
two years until the arrival of Professor
Julius Stone. An effort was made during
these two years to apply some of the
ideas derived from Professor Anderson
to the criticism of the accepted material
of the traditional Jurisprudence course.
The result was that Jurisprudence be-
came the subject of active dislike.
But I have never regretted the oppor-
tunity presented during those two years
to try to apply the elements of Ander-
son’s philosophy and ethics in the field
of Jurisprudence which is usually an
amalgamation of what is called “legal
logic” and legal apologetics based on
naive and pious ideas of ethics, mora-
lity, the role of law in society, the
Judiciary and the State. It was and is a
field which cried and still cries for the
attention of a mind of Professor Ander-
son’s calibre and iconoclastic temper
equipped with detailed knowledge.
Unlike his predecessor Professor Stone
was profoundly interested in Jurispru-
dence, and in 1946 published a large
work, “The Province and Function of
the Law”. In the Law School it imme-
diately became and remains holy writ.
Despite this, however, Professor Stone’s
work can only be described from the
point of view of anyone adopting the
general position of Professor Anderson,
as thoroughly confused on logical and
ethical issues.
But in Professor Stone’s “Province
and Function of the Law” Professor
Anderson’s ideas encountered something
which they did not meet in any other
field in Sydney a body of opposed
ideas of sufficient originality to provide
stimulus to any genuine student backed
by a formidable critical apparatus. This,
together with the fact that the law has
never engaged Professor Anderson’s
systematic attention, has meant that there
is no appreciation amongst students that
his general position contains a challenge
to legal theory which has not been met.
Frank Fowler (1929-31), doctor
HThe recent retirement of John Ander-
son from the Challis Chair of
Philosophy brought to a close a pro-
fessorship unique in the history of
Sydney University. It combined both
the making of an extraordinary advance
in the study of philosophy—an advance
that in retrospect will be as momentous
and perhaps even more important than
the recent advances in the study of
nuclear physics with a method of
lecturing that forced the student to
think.
There are many emotions and motives
for taking up university studies, but,
unless even at that stage of mental
development one has developed a closed
mind, Anderson’s lectures enabled as
time went on the interest in getting at
the facts, of distinguishing the true from
the merely plausible, to gain greater and
greater strength in the mind of the
student.
It is of course quite common for
university lecturers to exhort students
to “think for themselves”, but the
exhortation is empty because these
lecturers are far from thinking for
themselves.
Anderson did, and it was in so doing
that he not only enabled those of his
students who were not already educa-
tionally lost to begin to think for them-
selves without any exhortation to do
so, but that he also made his extra-
ordinary contributions to the study of
philosophical doctrines, especially the
complete refutation of erroneous philo-
sophical doctrines, especially the position
described as Idealism, and positively in
the establishment of Realism on a sound
basis.
D. McCallum (1940-41, 45-46),
philosopher
Tt is idle to speculate about John
Anderson’s influence on Australian
culture generally. On any showing his
influence was strongest in New South
Wales, both inside and outside the
University of Sydney, though it did
have some effects in other States. But
on his own view, culture is bound to be
a minority concern, and it would be
vulgar to assume that he hoped to have
more than an “against the stream” effect,
or expected to influence more than a
minority of the minority. Whether his
influence is now sinking steadily, so
that we are engaged in a post-mortem,
a piece of antiquarian research, or
whether his influence continues to
permeate and to have continuing effects
upon scattered schoolteachers, public
servants and lawyers here and there,
upon some journalists and academics,
could be argued back and forth. The
immediate, strong and palpable influence
has clearly declined.
It is the example of his intellectual
forthrightness, his love of the life of
learning, his contempt for hypocrisy and
humbug, his rebelliousness against cus-
tomary and accepted orthodoxies and
received opinions, that made him for
very many people, in certain limited
contexts, a great liberator. He is an
unusual kind of man, a man of con-
siderable personal charm, but with an
imperialistic sort of personality, a “love
me or leave me” set of demands to make
upon friends or disciples: and so there
could be hostile as well as favorable
reactions to his personality which got
mixed up with acceptance or rejection
of his views.
Again, Anderson was very hot against
careerism. And yet many a former
Andersonian has ceased to be possessed
by a passion to learn, has come to see
the world as an opportunity, has carved
out a career and become more
authoritarian as editor or academic,
public servant or managerial intellectual,
than he might have become if he had
remained socialist, Christian, humani-
tarian or whatever. Andersonians were
to fight for causes as well as pursue
philosophy, politics, literature, art, etc.
But nowadays a prosaic and worldly
practicalism, or else careerism, has over-
come the original experience of libera-
tion for many a freethinker.


ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented Ore Con-
centrator has proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient, simple and
inexpensive to operate. Send for
illustrated Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
“Everlasting” Boiler Blow off Valves, Kapid
Magnetising Machines, George Ellison
Switch Gear, Blasting Mats, Explosives,
Log Splitting Guns, etc. Makers of Classi-
fiers, Water Filters, Steam Valves, etc.
MOTORING
GOLDEN
AGE OF THE
MOTORING
WRITER?
To the average man the purchase
of a motor car probably repre-
sents the greatest single expense
in his life. This act of spending demands
great deliberation, long discussions in
clubs or pubs with his mates and ac-
quaintances regarding the good and bad
points of this car or that. Everyone talks
of his car or the one he plans to buy
and there is no greater bore than the
motoring “expert” propounding his
theories.
Yet when all else fails in the game of
conversation motor cars seldom fail to
provide some common ground and argu-
ments. And probably there is no greater
single influence on car sales than that of
the motorin 6 writer. But too large a
percentage of the public swallow the
opinions of motoring writers and many
believe every word.
How often have you heard that old
so and so was just about to buy the
latest Z-mobile when he said that the Z-
mobile’s front wheels tended to fall off
because the stub axles snapped eike
carrots? Very seldom, for hardly any
motoring writer would dare say anything
so blunt, no matter how true, for Z-
mobile advertising in his paper keeps
him in his job. More likely he would
criticise the position of the ashtray and
hint vaguely that perhaps regular atten-
tion to the Z-mobile’s front suspension
would be wise.
The position of motoring writer has
grown steadily in Australia over the post-
war years. Now all the big dailies have
their motoring writers and the suburban
and country papers run a motoring sec-
tion usually made up of press releases
from the motor trade’s advertising
agencies. But such is the standard of
these self-styled experts that perhaps less
than a handful are taken seriously by
knowledgeable motorists.
The avid motorist turns to the sports
car magazines for his answers and finds
them mainly full of overseas articles and
road tests which are of little use to the
Australian and his unique conditions.
The Australian road testers, with one
or two exceptions, have limited know-
ledge and few qualifications and yet they
are allowed to voice their personal likes
and dislikes throughout the land, damn-
ing this car and praising that and often
becoming the willing tools o" some canny
public relations promotion.
In England the motoring writers are
more rigidly controlled and the re-
sponsible ones generally belong to the
“Guild of Motoring Writers” which sets
a high standard for both writing and
integrity. In Australia it often happens
that a newspaper editor decides he wants
a motoring page as an “ad-puller” and
at the daily editorial conference suddenly
asks “Who can drive a motor car?”
The wily ones sense a tra t but there is
always the get-ahead type who will raise
his hand. “Good,” says the editor,
“you’ll be our motoring writer as from
now.” Confronted with this assignment
the tyro motoring writer leans heavily on
P.R. and advertising men who occasion-
ally feed and entertain him and some-
times go as far as to “arrange” a car for
his holidays.
It calls for a fairly seasoned cam-
paigner to weather the temptations that
lie in the path of the car motoring
“expert”. He is torn between the truth
and the guff that will please the ad-
vertisers.
He finds that he can vrite a road
test, without even driving the subject
car, from the glowing hand-outs and
overseas reports that the local agents fill
his briefcase with. It was a well-known
story among the Sydney motor trade that
one motoring writer never drove himself,
preferred the motor firm to supply a
driver, preferably a convivial fellow and
then the writer and driver would repair
to a quiet hostelry for the day where
the test would be written.
Other “testers” go to the opposite
extreme in their fanatical desire to find
some weakness. These men, often very
youthful, allow their enthusiasm to out-
strip their experience and instead of con-
fining their criticisms to the car’s color
delve into the handling and steering
characteristics much to the skilled de-
signers’ righteous anger.
In NSW things are better and the two
motoring papers in Sydney have good
motoring writers, one respected for his
painstaking analysis of each car and the
other for his vast driving experience on
race tracks and roads all over the world.
Neither is hamstrung by advertising
managers and consequently their w'ritings
are untainted.
This freedom of expression often leads
to the writers’ unpopularity among manu-
facturers and distributors some of whom
then refuse to allow their cars out on
test. Others go even further and attempt
to gag a writer as happened when a new
model’s handling on a wet road was
criticised.
It will be the aim of this column to
present the truth about motor cars, and
the trade to its many readers. In this
way many pitfalls can be avoided and
the new car buyer should be able to
have a better picture of whether his hard
earned deposit will bring him joy or
sorrow.
From the truth, you should welcome
our reports based on the findings and
experiences of a motorist who has been
driving for 30 years, everything from
“Ferraris to Fords”.
BOADICEA


REVIEWS
FILMS
DEALER IN MAGIC AND SPELLS
The Magician. Savoy. Sydney.
Tngmar Bergman’s “The Magician” is
a film to argue about, and I am
inclined to think that Bergman wrote
and directed it deliberately even
maliciously for that purpose. It is a
film to test Bergman’s admirers, to
alienate waverers and infuriate op-
ponents. In short it is very, very Berg-
man.
It is a dark, Gothic piece, set in mid-
19th century Sweden. The central
characters are a party of travelling
charlatans, practising “Mesmerism” and
illusions, who are forced to spend a
night and a day in the house of a rich
official. The official and a sceptical
doctor want to settle an argument about
the existence of occult powers; they
command a performance from the
magician and his troupe. Before the
day ends the magician has been
humiliated and strangely revenged.
Beyond that, the plot is resistant to
synopsis. It is really a complex
tapestry of sub-plots, each involving the
theme of illusion and the interaction
of the members of the magician’s party
with the official’s household and friends.
These characters are a rare lot, even
for Bergman. Chief among them is the
magician himself (played with sombre
force by Max von Sydow), who could
be either a mountebank or a demon-
driven artist; there is his enigmatic
young wife (enigmatic here is a relative
term; the whole film is an enigma);
there is the coldly inquisitive official, his
slightly loony wife, the morbid doctor,
and an alcoholic actor picked up by
the wayside.
At the level below are the “physical”
characters who always seem to appear
in a Bergman film, where they perform
a function rather like that of the Shake-
spearean comics. These include a gross,
foolish police chief, the flamboyant
“barker” of the magician’s company and
the lusty, love-making servants.
These Hoffmanesque figures (with the
possible exception of the shadowy young
wife of the magician) command little
sympathy, though some of them have a
creepy fascination. They tread their
way through a sequence of macabre
or earthy episodes that may or may not
have symbolic significance but scarcely
touch ordinary human realities. In none
of the Bergman films that we have seen
has the cold intellectualism that some
find a repellent feature of his work
been so apparent. Among Bergman’s
earlier films “Wild Strawberries” and
“The Seventh Seal” preached a love of
humanity, even if that feeling was not
strongly conveyed in the texture of the
films themselves. In “The Magician”
(unless its meaning has entirely escaped
me), Bergman shows no love of human-
ity, only a gloomy interest in its
pathology. One feels that as far as Berg-
man and his audience are concerned the
dramatis personae could all drop dead.
Similarly, the other Bergman films
we have seen here all had a perceptible
central theme, even if the details were
sometimes troublesome. In “The
Magician” he makes little attempt to
let the audience in on his meaning, if
he has one. It may be that he has none;
it may be that the film is no more than
an exercise in superior melodrama; it
may be that Bergman has tossed a tangle
of obscurities at his audience just to see
what they will make of it.
The sharpest pleasures are those we
have to work for. Bergman recognises
this and makes us work hard indeed at
times, but he could never bore us.
Whether we accept it or reject it as a
play of ideas this film could not fail to
grip us by the throat from the first
image to the last. The technique is
superb, the style and mood never falter;
the players are shrewdly chosen and
handled, skilful in themselves; every
detail, even when its purpose is baffling,
still seems perfectly placed.
Though “The Magician” leaves me
hesitating more than any other Berg-
man film it still holds the attention and
lingers in the mind in a way that most
other films, however sincere and com-
petent, never could.
MARTIN LONG
WEST SIDE FEUDS
The West Side Story. Variety. Sydney.
Qccasionally bitingly satirical, and at
times genuinely moving, this is one
of the best film versions of a Broadway
musical to come out from Hollywood in
many years.
The continuous splashes of color and
the catchy tunes tend to obscure the
message of tragic hopelessness of
murderous racial feuds between two
gangs of juvenile delinquents in New
York’s West Side slums.
Natalie Wood, as Maria, gives an
outstanding performance, ably supported
by Rita Moreno as Anita. Richard
Beymer tries hard to create a credible
image of Tony, Maria’s American boy-
friend, who unsuccessfully tries to break
away from his sordid surroundings but
is dragged down by his mistaken feelings
of loyalty to his gang. Russ Tamblyn is
not really convincing as Riff, the leader
of the “Jets”; nor, for that matter, is
George Chakiris as the “Sharks’ ” chief-
tain Bernardo.
But expert use of technicolor and ex-
perienced direction by Robert Wise and
Jerome Robbins make this an enjoyable
film—and provide an ample opportunity
for sobs for teenagers.
EUGENE BAJKOWSKI
MUSIC
SING FOR JOY
Two Recitals by Cesare Valletti.
Sydney Town Hall.
fjpHE words “Italian tenor” have unfor-
tunate connotations. One is inclined
to believe that all Italian tenors sing only
arias from nineteenth-century Italian
opera, and sing them in a style most
notable for vocal fireworks, bombast and
sentimentality.
This is probably unfair to many Italian
tenors; it is certainly unfair to Cesare
Valletti. Valletti does not go in for any
extremes; he just sings—superbly.
His technique is near enough to per-
fection. His voice is pure and true in all
parts of its register, he has plenty of
power and variety of tone at his com-
mand, he sings fast melismata without


the slightest trouble, and his intonation is
perfect. However, he gives the impres-
sion not so much of someone who can
sing very well (though he is this) as of
someone who thoroughly enjoys singing.
Valletti seems to prefer music that
shows the voice off to advantage. In the
two concerts I heard, the only pieces he
sang that were written later than 1850
were composed by Italians; generally he
sang music in which the accompaniment’s
role was that of a foil for the voice. But
he sang with unfailing taste and re-
straint, and never used music as an excuse
for vocal display. The best things in
the concerts I heard were songs by two
composers with whom one would not
expect an Italian to have much affinity—
Schubert and Schumann—which he sang
as well as any German singer. Valletti’s
accompaniments were impeccably and
sympathetically played by David
Andrews.
JOHN SMALL
ART
ADAM IN INDUSTRY
Jon Molvig. Rudy Komon Gallery.
Sydney.
theme, Industrial Eden, which
occupied Jon Molvig’s paintings last
year, has been carried into these 25 paint-
ings in ink and mixed media. Their
spectral character puts one in mind of
the bad dreams people once believed
were the result of sleeping under the rays
of the moon. These taut, savage figures
are featureless images of decay which,
unlike the Adam and Eve of the Old
Testament, are born out of the night.
With varying degrees of transparency or
opacity each form registers a special
emphasis of the initial idea by its posi-
tion in space and its relation to the other
forms. The blacks penetrate these
textured ghosts of color and light, they
poignantly crystallise or dissolve the main
actors in the drama to give concrete
expression to the fairly literary concept—
the sub-human spawn of industrial
materialism. Molvig’s work moves in the
vein of social satire but with the techni-
ques of the abstract and the zest of
expressionism.
Other factors add interest to familiar
realms. Some of the shapes and the
stances of the figures recall primitive
ancestral carvings; a little of the brusque-
ness might be traced to certain elements
in the pictorial treatment of popular Aus-
tralian myths. Most emphatically, any
semblance of charm has been thoroughly
exterminated. We progress from the
grimness of the four Adam and Eve
paintings through to the inevitable death
scene where we might expect a release
from the sufferings of this Industrial
Eden but no, poor Adam is sucked
straight back into the dark (“Death of
Adam”). (“Death of Adam” introduces
a collection of wheels under a crescent
moon —symbols of the mechanical futility
which chains the Industrial Adams of
this world?
Very often the idea tends to be blurred
at the edges as in some revival of a
medieval morality play where the actors
are still grappling with a half-digested
idiom. If Molvig’s work achieves the
distinction of a certain moral quality in
his forging of a new myth we can expect
to find much of it baffling. However, the
real strength comes from his struggle to
put it into some valid form; these paint-
ings are anything but drawing-room fare.
J. HeENSHAW
HERALDIC DESIGN
Neville Matthews. Hardy Bros.
Gallery. Brisbane.
Daryl Hill. Johnstone Gallery.
Brisbane.
lyi'att hews is a moderately young
A painter trained in conventional
methods and good by those standards.
The pictures in this show are all done
on epoxy resin, a medium which sets
quickly from the fluid state and leaves
a very hard final surface.
Some artists have used similar sub-
stances but those few I have seen use
them to produce sculptural effects in
more or less low relief, with good enough
effect. But it seems doubtful to me if
these resins are capable of much develop-
ment. Matthews uses only uniformly flat
surfaces though the actual pictures have
the merit of some illusional three-dimen-
sional treatment. His work seems to me
to have had necessarily to undergo quick
working and thus simplification, in this
case not at all a bad thing, as the artist’s
eclectic judgment is reasonably sound.
Matthews is concerned mostly with
natural forms of animals, bulls, goats and
birds especially fighting cocks. A picture
of this title (No. 14) is very striking; two
cocks in bright yellow plumage and vivid
head trimmings are beautifully balanced
as in a heraldic design and for all the
simplification it is charged with kinetic
power and great formal beauty. And
“Queue” (No. 18) shows all the essen-
tials of the boredom of a line of people
just as they are in their lowest state of
conscious life. This is most effective in
its simplicity, and for some curious
reason bears the seal of the abstract in
the formalised planet, Sun or Moon I
shall never know, hung up as a set of
wavy concentric circles —one sees it in
nearly every abstract, a piece of compul-
sive obsession. As mainly flat color I
find this as pleasing as anything I have
seen in that genre lately. It will be inter-
esting to see how this artist develops in
this medium, if he can.
HThis is Hill’s second show in Brisbane;
A the first was an exhibition of what I
called Rivegaucherie, something that grew
out of left bank cafe prattle; it amoun-
ted to very little. I cannot say this one
is an improvement though it is different
and appears to have had more working-
up. But before discussing the exhibits in
oil and watercolor, it is necessary to take
account of: 1. A sort of manifesto nailed
to the wall amongst them much like the
gesture of Luther at Wittenberg, and 2.
The catalogue. The manifesto seems to
suggest strongly that Hill is committed to
Dream states, a kind of metaphysical
aesthetic, a paraesthesia, a lazy French
languor that one sees in tachisme and in
what Hill calls “Art brute”. (Apparently
the French Academy changed the gender
of the noun Art last week); anything, in
fact, to be nonconformist and demon-
strate that contemporary “official” art is
bad and, in fact, dead. The catalogue
tells us that the exhibits represent such
things as “Red Apprehension”, “Circui-
tous Osmosis” or “Sysyphus” (sic). The
relevance of this nomenclature to the
work exhibited is difficult to establish
unless, of course, in the mind of a Zen
Buddhist.
All the oils are almost exactly identical,
any difference between individual works
being purely quantitative. The stock
pattern, on which there is practically no
variation, is now commonplace and
indeed boring in contemporary Austra-
lian art. It is flat and two-dimensional,
of course, as the formerly alleged primary
aim of Art was to provide an illusion of
three dimensions on a flat surface. It is
best described as a central mass, a kind
of formless mud-pie of color of a wide
gamut much like the kind of art encour-
aged in kindergartens. This central pie is
covered in Hill’s work with one or a series
of convolutions in grey or white. I can
best convey an idea of all this by saying
it looks as if a skein of knitting wool
being wound had slipped off somebody’s
hand and got all tangled.
This sort of painting seems to me to be
a purely personal and private ritual of the
painter which should be conducted in
privacy.
J. V. DUHIG


TELEVISION
CHARMING AS A PRICKLY PEAR
The Johnny O’Keefe Show. TV Ball-
room. ABN.
Tj\)R some elusive reason, most of our
television drama is produced in
Melbourne at present, and I suggest the
cure for one or two of the several
things that ail it can be found by Mel-
bourne producers at 5.30 Sunday after-
noons on GTV. The nostrum is the
Johnny O'Keefe Show, and it is fortified
with two rare ingredients, good lighting
and good television camera work.
Someone in the production unit
obviously feels that viewers would prefer
a sharp black and white picture, smooth
transitions from camera to camera,
occasional illuminating close-ups or un-
usual angles, and a presentation that
varies from quiet understatement to pure
explosion The person or persons
responsible should be seized bodily and
forced to make a television play.
The Johnny O’Keefe Show is tele-
vised at 7 p.m. in Sydney, but is usually
treated as an afternoon, teenagers’ affair
in the other cities. In Perth, at 5 p.m.
Saturdays, it is submerged in Club
7 Teen, described as “Channel Seven’s
Teenage Show, compered by Gary Car-
volth, including the Johnny O’Keefe
Show ’ —which fills a mere 60 minutes
of Mr Carvolth’s 80-minute programme.
When I looked in at 7 the other night,
it was not without a bushel of mis-
givings. Tuning in at that hour on other
occasions I had been startled by sounds
reminiscent of sundown at the zoo, and
had switched elsewhere in a hurry.
It now appears that these were the
songs of J. O’K., or the Wild One, and
once reassured that I was not about to
see film of polar bears devouring a
brace of yak, I threw bias to the winds
and soon found that Mr O’Keefe’s
gravelly voice and unique style had a
certain insidious charm, like prickly
pear fruit. I suspect that, as well as a
teenagers’ idol, he is a musicians’ singer,
and Bing Crosby was that, way back
when the older public regarded him as a
moon-eyed moaner.
O’Keefe has other qualities, such as
showmanship, and a nice easy way of
talking to the performers he intro-
duces.
His show on this particular night
featured, among others, Noeleen Batley
who sang “Wonderful World of the
Young” stylishly, and made me feel suit-
ably aged.
Jimmy Little sang, J. O’K. sang a
couple that were not too wild, Bobby
Scott sang, so did Denise King. The
men, except O’Keefe, wore the ties
favored by Maverick, Earp and other
Westerners. The Wild One wore a very
long, thin tie. And I realised that, peer-
ing at such details, I was not finding the
show very interesting. Too much song,
too little variety. As I’ve wondered
before, where are the young variety
artists, comics, imitators, dancers?
I guess the answer is trend. Those
people are out, vocal and band groups
are in. But a variety show without
variety, or with its variety limited to
singers of different styles, and an odd
band group, is hard to take for a solid
hour unless, apparently, one’s a teen-
ager.
At that stage, I’m afraid, my affection
for the O’Keefe Show’s lighting and
camera work faded to insignificance,
and I had to admit that I was either
square, or a Trad Dad.
Well, not quite square, because on
the same night I failed to enjoy the
ABC’s nationally shown TV Ballroom.
In this half-hour, numbered contestants
trip the light fantastic, all very expertly,
with interlocking comments by Miss
Diana Ward, who sits as awkwardly as
a schoolmistress refusing to admit she’s
on a bed of ants, with voice to match
this image.
I realise that, in presenting this show,
the ABC is carrying out its responsibility
to cater for as many sections of the
community as possible. I believe that
chess is next on the list, compered by
Digby Wolfe.
FRANK ROBERTS
THEATRE
THE NEW LOOK G. & S.
The Gondoliers. Gilbert & Sullivan.
Her Majesty’s. Sydney.
The Sentimental Bloke. Arlen Brown
and Thompson. Theatre' Royal!
Sydney.
\\ HEN the complicated copyright of
Messrs Gilbert and Sullivan crum-
bled away quite recently, quite a few
iconoclasts and commercial managers
called for a re-think of the entire tradi-
tion of G. & S. Not everyone was pre-
pared to go to the lengths of, say, the
American “Hot Mikado”, but there was a
pretty general agreement that the fossi
Used state of D'Oyly a la Carte had to go.
Traditional “business”, an inflexible
way of repeating the successful produc-
tion of the 1910’s through the ’twenties,
thirties, forties, and ’fifties, has tended to
breed up a limited and private audience
for the Gilbert and Sullivan works. The
glaze of the D’Oyly Carte “method” was
nothing but a ham sauce, spread all over,
obscuring music, wit and meaning of
these potent forerunners of the modern
musical. .
There is a good case to be argued for
looking at Gilbert and Sullivan as the
true fathers of West Side Story, for even
better than Wagner they solved the pro-
blem of making diction and music
march together. Even if they dealt in
broad outlines, Gilbert’s words and
Sullivan s songs. admirably hit off the
P e o p le they h ad in mind. .
In The Gondoliers”, for instance, the
Duke of Plaza Toro tatty though he
might be—doesn’t sound in speech or
song like the gondolien. His daughter
as her own proper differences from the
gon olieri s girl-friends. No one would
confuse the Grand Inquisitor with the
Republican-created “Lord High Cook”.
This essential realism is the reason they
have endured.
u ll * s on , tfliS l?as ‘ s rea^sm that the
, new wave of Gll bert and Sullivan pro-
auction will rest, conceivably. Certainly,
if J. C. Williamsons’ new presentation of
“The Gondoliers” is a reliable forerunner,
a novel honesty and charming directness
is going to embrace our local Gilbert and
Partner scene.
In just about every way, this piece of
work by Mr Richard Campion, new
J- C. W. staff producer, must present an
advance on any previous G. & S. season
with one reservation to general
approval for the words are not clear. The
singing and acting by principals Martin
Lawrence, John Larsen, and John Adams,
the Grand Inquisitor and the Gondoliers!
leaves nothing to cavil at, but even though
Richard Wordsworth’s Duke of Plaza
Toro has mostly good moments, Mr
Wordsworth fails to make all his finals
clear so many of his best lines are robbed
of their proper laughs,
The Duchess of Plaza Toro, as played
by Helen Landis, must be written off
as something of a failure for this critic
at least. Even a few rows from the front
only a word in ten could be distinguished,
which is a plain bore when so much
depends upon Gilbert’s masterly word-
play. Not all that much better were
Misses Lauverne Gray, as Casilda, the
Duke’s daughter, or Genty Stevens and
Doreen Morrow as the gondoliers’ two
sweethearts and wives.
But settings by Anne Fraser, the verve
and modernity of the general playing and,
in particular, the show-stopping brilliance
of some of Miss Betty Pounder’s dancing
scenes, make this “new wave” Gilbert and
Sullivan something to see. If Mr
Campion will now go back to tradition


Nationalism has done some funny things to Australian literature.
It has given us back street pushes, wide open spaces, kangaroos, emus, barmaids, canecutters,
stockmen, bookies, swaggies, overlanders, sundowners, migrants and the Melbourne Toorak set but
it has never before given us
EARL DOUGLAS LUCAS
AND
BRANCHES
Earl Douglas Lucas is 18 and he works in
a bank. Batches is Miss Yvonne Lindemann,
aged. 17. who operates the Batching
Machine in the same Branch of the Bank.
They belong in
THE HOLLOW WOODHEAP
BY
DAVSD FORREST
Since THE LAST BLUE SEA speculation has
been rife as to where David Forrest would
next turn his pen. Here is the answer.
He has brought it hilariously home, back
into the heart of the Australian Establish-
ment typified here by The Bank a
hollow woodheap in which uncomplicated
adolescence can wreak chaos.
PRICE 22/6 from your favourite bookseller.
Published by THE JACARANDA PRESS
enough to ensure that all his singers
(including the chorus) can articulate with
that perfect clarity needed for Gilbert’s
wit to establish itself, this will become a
memorable production.
The Bulletin reviewed The
Sentimental Bloke when it opened in
Melbourne last year, a brief note should
suffice. This is far and away the best
Australian musical we have yet seen,
and in all honesty is much better value
for money than quite a few imports
we have had. Better, for example, than
The Music Man, Irma la Douce, Salad
Days, and much, much better than
that sad non sequitur Lola Montez. The
Elizabethan Trust maybe ought to feel
a little shame that they didn’t get on
to this thoroughly beguiling Australian
classic made into musical, but all the
more credit to our finest commercial
management that they did, and are, one
gathers, making lots of lovely money out
of backing their courage and taste.
Sydneysiders should love this slice of
classical Australian life, even if it is laid
in Melbourne. Edwin Rice as the Senti-
mental Bloke has a remarkable resemb-
lance to the Hal Gye drawings for the
original edition of the C. J. Dennis
poems.
Patsy Hemingway’s “Doreen” is (if
a little over-refined) sweet and winning.
Gloria Dawn as Ginger Mick’s girl,
Rose, with Frank Ward as Ginger Mick
himself, supply the low life and earth
of the show with irresistible drive and
charm. Cedric Flower’s sets are a show
in themselves.
Personally, I found the musical most
appealing when it used lines from C. J.
Dennis in liberal quotation; others have
an opposite reaction, and perhaps it all
depends on whether or not you were
raised on The Sentimental Bloke. At all
events, no Australian can doubt that
here is an authentic bit of his country,
in a fine and dandy all-singing, all-danc-
ing, big-time show.
KEVON KEMP
IBSEN STRAIGHT
Hedda Gabler. Melbourne Little
Theatre.
A Doi! ? s House. Muse Theatre Club.
Melbourne.
The Cherry Orchard. Tin Alley Players
Union Theatre. Melbourne.
TJlhese are both good productions.
Peter Randall gives a glossy, some-
what superficial account of “Hedda
Gabler”, unlikely to please a solemn
Ibsenist but, to my mind, adequately
justified by its pace, its good perfor-
mances, and its splendid set and costumes.
The men in the cast are particularly
strong. Mark Albiston catches very nicely
the benign self-absorption of Tesman—
the kind of child-man to whom one
administers metaphorical kicks or pats on
the head according to one’s mood. Simon
Quivers’ study of Judge Brack is appro-
priately urbane and corrupt, and David
Mitchell manages to suggest both the
intelligence and the foolishness of Loev-
borg without splitting the character in
two. Su Israel is good as Mrs Elvsted,
and Pauline Charleston, though perhaps
missing a little of Hedda’s restlessness,
has a fine voice and an impressive
arrogant bearing which fit the part
admirably.
Alan Money, at the tiny Muse Theatre,
makes a virtue of necessity, and shows
how well Ibsen can be done in the
audience’s lap. It is remarkable how inti-
mate performance strengthens the early
parts of the play—we feel both the
fragility and the charm of Nora’s and
Helmer’s fools’ paradise—and its oppres-
siveness and fundamental unhealthiness.
The last act does not come off so well,
because it is difficult for actors to convey
a sense of personal catastrophe when
they are obliged to speak so quietly and
move so carefully. Except perhaps at
the very end, Jeannie James is com-
pletely satisfying as Nora. Through
fleeting facial expressions, nervous move-
ment, delicate vocal cadences and rapt
attention to the matter of the moment,
she suggests the suppressed and misap-
plied vitality which is Nora’s hope of
salvation and Helmer’s delight. John
Eaton as Helmer is only slightly less con-
vincing, and Mr Money himself manages
to bring the sardonic Doctor Rank down
to manageable proportions.
The success of these productions
demonstrates clearly enough that Isben
is still worth occasional performance. The
universality and timelessness which
enthusiasts still astonishingly claim for
his plays are of course, simply not
there—his moralising was too particular-
ised to survive the social revolution which
it may have helped to bring about. For
the same reason, and despite the great
skill of the dialogue and the firmness of
characterisation and construction, the
plays no longer succeed in their primary
function as illusions of reality the
characters are too obviously being put
through their hoops in the interests of
what, to us, is a faintly absurd and largely
redundant piece of special-pleading.
Nevertheless, Ibsen straight is better than
Ibsen and water. We get so much of the
latter that it is quite a pleasant change to
find ourselves back where it all started.
ITlrom Ibsen to Chekhov is from the
near-ridiculous to the near-sublime.
“The Cherry Orchard” is one of the
marvels of the modern theatre, a wise and
warm-hearted play likely to last as long
as those of Aristophanes. Chekhov’s
characters, given adequate acting, have a
completeness of identity unmatched out-
side the great Russian novels. Through
them we experience the actuality of
other people’s lives.
This wonderful play is, of course, be-
yond the scope of amateurs, but the Tin
Alley Players, under Keith Macartney,
are to be commended for their honest
attempt. Gwen Reid as Lynbov and
Murielle Hearne as Charlotta come
closest to success. Robert Holden as
Gayev has some fine moments. Pro-
fessor Macartney is funny, but not really
convincing, as Firs —like most of the men
he is obliged by lack of resource to rely
on a “whiskers and limp” style of charac-
terisation which is inadequate when the
characters are as real as these.
I can think of nothing better for Mel-
bourne’s theatrical life than a good pro-
fessional production of Chekhov —prefer-
ably this play.
JAMES MURPHY
TRANSFIELD
ART PRIZE
The £I,OOC Transfield Art Prize will
be awarded this year for “Modern Figure
Composition”. Judges of the Transfield
Art Prize this year are Mr Max Harris,
Mr Weaver Hawkins and Mr Roland
Wakelin. Sending-in date for paintings
is Wednesday, 29th August.


The Making of the President, 1960.
Theodore H. White. 555. 6d.
Jonathan Cape.
THE RED PAGE
JOLLY GENTS AND PRESIDENTS
By JAMES GRIFFIN
For the sheer acreage of grinning that
inevitably spreads over the Ameri-
can scene during election year, there
was probably little difference between
John F. Kennedy and Richard M. Nixon,
unlike the two previous contests
when home-spun Ike was able to put it
all over the donnish Adlai. However,
while Kennedy was able to retain an un-
trammelled image as a beamish all-
American boy, there seemed little doubt
by the end of the campaign that butter
would ultimately melt in Richard Nixon’s
mouth. If a presidential election should
present only a choice between Tweedle-
dum and Tweedledee then the jollier gent
must win. Was there more to Kennedy’s
victory than that?
Theodore White has won a Pulitzer
Prize not so much for analysing the
causes of Kennedy’s success as much as
for his zestful account of the processing
of a President. He takes an intense de-
light in this unique political exercise:
“There is nothing like this American
expression of will in England, or France,
India or Russia or China. Only o*.e other
major nation in modern history has ever
tried to elect its leader directly by mass,
free, popular vote. This was the Weimar
Republic of Germany, which modelled
its unitary vote for national leader on
American practice. Out of its experiment
with the system it got Hitler. Americans
have had Lincoln, Wilson, two Roose-
velts.”
White writes vividly in the “A-ME-RI-
CA-I-LOVE-YOU” tradition, with
foibles, warts and all. What to outsiders
may seem a monstrous affair of ballyhoo,
gladhanding, whistle stops, log-rolling
and bandwagons is for the initiate a re-
vered political liturgy.
Divinity would hedge any President
about whom White wrote, but it is
doubtful whether his book would have
been as lively had Nixon won, for he has
been captivated by the Kennedy person-
ality. Hero-worship is one thing and
White makes a success of it, but occas-
ionally here is a tone of evangelical awe
which is quite ludicrous:
“Then the plane was aloft again, and
he was sombre in the dark as it moved
towards the mountains and Montana.
The stewardess brought him a steaming
bowl of hot tomato soup; with complete
relish he stirred in a thick gob of sour
cream and supped.”
There is nothing awe-inspiring, how-
ever, about the sympathetically-treated
but clay-footed Nixon although White
may very well have had to write this
chronicle about him.
It was just as difficult for Kennedy
to win the Democratic nomination as
eventually to win the Presidency.
Obviously the party bosses would not
touch him unless he could demonstrate
his ability to win votes at the grass-roots
level of the primaries. Kennedy’s Cath-
olicism and his youth seemed insuper-
able obstacles. Kennedy, however, had
many advantages over A 1 Smith: the
USA was a more sophisticated society
and Catholics seemed no more theocrati-
cally inclined than any other group, at
least in the cities; poor Al’s “wetness”
was perhaps as big a factor in defeat
as his Catholicism; there were many
more Catholics in the US (16 per cent,
in 1928 and perhaps 25 per cent, today);
there was nothing flamboyant about
Kennedy’s faith. (In Australia at least
some Catholics were perturbed by his
lack of obvious zeal.) Again while his
youthfulness might wring matronly
hearts, it seemed a liability against the
background of 1960, what with sput-
niks and Castro. Stevenson, Symington,
Johnson seemed better prospects.
I>ut Kennedy had money, superlative
33 organisation and audacity. He took on
Hubert Humphrey in the difficult prim-
aries of Wisconsin and West Virginia.
They spread about 150,000 dollars each
but, as Humphrey said, it was like “a
corner grocer running against a chain
store”. Humphrey travelled by bus,
Kennedy by private plane; Humphrey
aides were often part-timers, and he
could staff only two offices in Wiscon-
sin with capable men, while Kennedy
staffed eight out of the ten Congressional
districts; the Kennedy clan and its rami-
fied connections supplied the talent. In
Protestant West Virginia Kennedy
adroitly turned the religious issue into
one of tolerance versus intolerance: who
could be tolerant and vote for Hum-
phrey? Another myth to be buried was
that the Knights of St. Tammany con-
trolled New York. Beginning upstate the
Kennedy forces gradually pervaded the
city; the Tammany bosses, De Sapio and
Prendergast, were presented wiP an ac-
complished fact and they had “to
scramble abroad the rolling bandwagon
with what little grace they could muster”.
That finished Johnson’s chances.
But it was another matter to defeat
Richard Nixon, the favorite son of the
great white father President Eisen-
hower. By now there had been the V-2
debacle, a summit conference, and
Khrushchev had invaded the very canyons
of Manhattan to rattle his sabre and bang
his shoe. Nixon had talked turkey to
Khrushchev, he had braved the Venezue-
lan rabble, he had eight years’ Vice-presi-
dential experience behind him. The
Kennedy clan is now so much with us
and is so preferable to the dowdiness
of the Nixons that we are apt to think of
his victory as inevitable. Yet Kennedy
just scraped in.
His electoral strategy was superb.
Where Nixon dispersed his energies over
the whole country Kennedy opted for the
right votes in the right places. Two hun-
dred and sixty-nine electoral votes were
needed; New York, Pennsylvania, Cali-
fornia, Michigan, Texas, Illinois, Ohio,
New Jersey and Massachusetts held 237
of them. Lyndon Johnson was to get the
rest in the Old South along with his
native Texas. As it turned out, from the
eight major regions of the USA, Kennedy
won in only three: New England, the
Middle Atlantic and the Old South —but
it was enough.
In 78 per cent, of those newspapers
in which publishers endorsed a candi-
date, the choice was pro-Nixon, but
Nixon bungled his Press campaign. He
was stingy with handouts and kept him-
self aloof; Kennedy pursued an instant
transcript policy and flattered the re-
porters by his close interest in their
work. Camaraderie between candidate
and reporters was reflected in the>r writ-
ing, as indeed it is in White’s book.
Affectionate and smooth personal re-
lationships at all times charact ;ed the
Kennedy organisation; but in spite of
having an abL staff, Nixon would not
trust them wholeheartedly. He disregard-
ed advice and at times disrupted their
planning. As one complained: “he re-
duced us all to clerks”.
The negro vote was crucial. Whereas
in 1910 90 per cent, of negroes lived
in the Old South and thus had no in-
fluence in politics, in 1960 almost half
now lived in the cities of the Nor/ . How
to win their vote without sacrificing the
white votes of the Old South was a con-
undrum which Kennedy solved. The
gaoling of the heroic negro, Martin
Luther King, in Atlanta for a “sit-in”
campaign brought feeling on the Negro
issue to boiling point. Nixon fah ~cd and


PENGUIN MODERN POETS 1 (4s 6d)
Lawrence Durrell, R. S. Thomas
and Elizabeth Jennings.
PENGUIN MODERN POETS 2 (4s 6d)
Kingsley Amis, Dom Moraes, and
Peter Porter
CHOSEN WORDS (7s 6d)
Ivor Brown
THE LOST CHILDHOOD AND OTHER
ESSAYS (ss)
Graham Greene
THE LOST WORLD OF THE KALAHARI
(5s 6d)
Laurens Van Der Post
RIPENESS IS ALL (5s 6d)
Eric Linklater
ALL IN A LIFETIME (5s 6d)
Walter Allan
LES INFANTS TERRIBLES (4s 6d)
Jean Cocteau
MR JOHNSON (5s 6d)
Joyce Cary
THE COMPLETE PLAIN WORDS (5s 6d)
Ernest Gowers
THROUGH A GLASS DARKLY (ss)
Helen McCloy
FROM LONDON FAR (5s 6d)
Michael Innes
FRENCHMAN'S CREEK (5s 6d)
JAMAICA INN (5s 6d)
MY COUSIN RACHAEL (5s 6d)
REBECCA (6s)
Daphne du Maurier
DIAGNOSIS OF MAN (7s 6d)
Kenneth Walker
BHAGAVAD GITA (5s 6d)
Trans. Juan Mascaro
ASIA IN THE BALANCE (5s 6d)
Michael Edwardes
AUNTIE ROBSO (ss)
Ann Scott-Moncrieff
MOONFLEET (5s fed)
J. Meade Falkner
PENGUINS FOR
GOOD READING
PENGUIN NEWSLETTER
If anything the Penguin publishing
programme becomes more exciting and
progressive from year to year. We are
referring not only to the inception of
Peregrines, which are providing the
teaching profession, university students
and the serious reader with the most
important modern critical texts at reason-
able prices, (although Peregrines on their
own are sufficient to establish the claim
that Penguin books are still way out in
front), but to the other established series
which are going from strength to
strength.
The New English Dramatists made the
controversial dramas of the younger
English playwrights available in inex-
pensive volumes. Playwrights such as
Kops, Wesker, Osborne, Pinter and
Shaffer all appear in this series. Now
we have a companion series, Penguin
Modern Poets, of which the first two
volumes are now available. This series is
designed to introduce poets of today,
both famous and little known, to a wide
public. Each volume will contain a
selection of about thirty poems each
from three poets. These selections are
chosen to display each poet’s charac-
teristics, flavour and range. Volume one
features Lawrence Durrell, R. S. Thomas
and Elizabeth Jennings; volume two
Kingsley Amis, Dom Moraes and Peter
Porter.
In fact Penguins have one of the most
extensive poetry lists in publishing and
the series is continually being expanded.
Then there are the Penguin Classics, a
series of classical works newly translated
into modern English. This month’s
offering is Bhagavad Gita, a new transla-
tion by Juan Mascaro from the Sanskrit
of one of the most important mythical
poems in the Hindu scriptures. A year
ago Penguin Modern Classics were in-
troduced, a series of works by English
and American writers who have earned
an international reputation during the
last thirty years. Added to this series
this month there are Jean Cocteau’s Les
Enfants Terribles, a really outstanding
work which poetically recounts the lives
of two children in the grip of fantasy,
and by Joyce Cary Mr Johnson, a graphic
tragicomedy about a half-educated clerk
in the Nigeria of Colonial days.
Penguin Specials are yet another
original series, consisting of" topical and
up to the minute reports on political or
social events. Asia in the Balance is a
timely example. It examines Asia’s at-
titude to both sides of the cold war, to
democracy and to Communism, and
gives a coherent picture of the revolu-
tion that is still in progress and fantastic
problems that must be solved.
An interesting Pelican is Sir Ernest
Gowers’ The Complete Plain Words
available for the first time in paperbacks.
Originally published by that august
establishment, Her Majesty’s Stationery
Office eight years ago, it became one ot
the most astounding international best-
sellers in the post-war years. Diagnosis
of Man is a highly intelligent inquiry
into the fundamental nature of man by
Kenneth Walker. In this book the author
goes beyond the limits of biology into
philosophy and religion.
This month Penguins have a regal
string of best-sellers. No less than four
books by Daphne du Maurier: Rebecca,
Jamaica Inn, Frenchman’s Creek and
My Cousin Rachael. Other fiction for
this month is Ripeness is All by Eric
Linklater, which was described by Punch
as “a really funny and diabolically clever
book” and we are sure you will agree.
Walter Allan’s AH in a Lifetime is the
autobiography of William Ewart Ashted,
an aristocrat of the working class.
Also available now are Ivor Brown’s
Chosen Words and Graham Greene’s
The Lost Childhood and other Essays.
For crime addicts there are two this
month. Through a Glass Darkly by
Helen McCloy, the first woman President
of Mystery Writers of America, is a
supernatural puzzle, and from Michael
Innes we have From London Far, a story
of high speed adventure in the world of
illicit art.
Laurens Van Der Post’s account of
his fascinating journey in the Southern
African desert to re-discover the Bush-
men, The Lost World of the Kalahari,
now appears in Penguins.
Just in case you are looking for presents
for the children, be they your own or
others, you may be interested in Puffins.
(Another Penguin “first” children’s
paperbacks.) Since its inception, 20 years
ago, the Puffin list has been carefully
planned to provide books of the highest
quality at the lowest possible price, for
children of every age from the nursery
story-hour to the teenager looking for
adventure and excitement. There are two
new titles for this month, Auntie Robbo
by Ann Scott-Moncrief, the hilarious
Scottish adventures of Hector and his
extraordinary great-great aunt, and
Moonfleet by J. Meade Falkner, a story
of smuggling and adventure for every-
one who has read Treasure Island.
We hope that you will realise from all
this, just one month’s new books, how
wide and varied the Penguin range is.
Towards the end of every month there
are the new titles and reprints at your
bookseller or newsagent. Why not make
a point of calling on him? He will be
pleased to let you have a list of new
titles regularly but if in difficulty write
to us direct at P.O. Box 61, Mitcham,
Victoria.
Our complete publication for this
month is shown on this page; these are
just some of the reasons why Penguins
are popular.


did nothing in spite of his civil rights
platform; he “split his image” again.
“Tricky Dicky” was fatally lured by the
white vote in the South. Kennedy acted
decisively; he telephoned immediately to
Mrs King (then six months pregnant)
to express sympathy. Although often pro-
foundly Protestant, many Negro leaders
plumped for Kennedy. As for the South,
Kennedy (with Johnson) was still the
lesser evil.
How important were the TV debates?
Major issues were not clarified, but they
did show that Kennedy was at least
Nixon’s equal, and the Kennedy tech-
nique was, on the whole, superior.
Finally, Nixon did not exploit enough
the services of that jolliest of all Presi-
dential gents, Eisenhower. The retiring
President’s intervention in the last ten
days of the campaign seems to have
swayed many to Nixon, but it was too
late.
So at last the USA had a Catholic
President, and this was good because
religion may never be a vital issue in
Presidential politics again. A Catholic
Tweedledum will have as much chance
as a Quaker Tweedledee and that is
a triumph for plural democracy.
That Certain Book
INTIMATIONS OF IMMORALITY
By ALEXANDER MACDONALD
11/’ill Meg wed John? Will Jo drop one
" of her 19 hairpins into the goose-
berry fool? Will Beth haul off and smite
her cranky schoolteacher, Mr Davis,
across the mazzard? Will the reader bust
a blood vessel before reaching p. 15 H,
or will he grit his back teeth and press
on to the blessed word Finis on page
303?
All these fascinating queries are posed
by a stout little volume on heterosexual
humors which I had hoped to leave un-
riffled in the bulging charnel house of
Books I Prefer Not to Remember.
Unhappily, when the subject of That
Certain Book was wished on me (the
Book in question having to be one
which exercised the most violent impact
on my tender years), I was obliged to
come up with “Little Women,” by Louisa
M. Alcott.
The characters of the Little Women
involved—Jo, Meg, Amy and Beth—
are, of course, much too complex to be
assessed in a mere few hundred words.
From the moment they burst upon us,
like something out of “Bartholomew
Fair,” in that incredible room (filled with
chrysanthemums, Christmas roses, old
shoes, and crackling firelight) it is evi-
dent that Nuncle Freud, himself, is
already lurking in the wings, waiting to
catalogue the creatures.
There is 16-year-old Meg, who
fancies high-heeled slippers, green silk
stockings and a dash of cologne on her
kerchief. There is Beth: “a rosy, smooth
haired, bright eyed girl of 13 (says
Louisa M.), with a shy manner, a timid
voice, and a peaceful expression.” Miss
Alcott does not enlarge, but in a more
advanced psychological climate, most of
us who are familiar with Baby Doll, Big
Daddy’s babes, and other cuties, become
shortly aware that there is something
withheld from this description. Person-
ally, I would say that behind her shy
manner, timid voice, and peaceful ex-
pression, Beth also has a wayward, coy
habit of poisoning off postillion boys,
and dancing, widdershins, in the nude,
around the buttery, at the turn of the
moon. There is also Amy —“A
regular snow maiden, with blue eyes and
yellow hair, pale and slender. . . .”
(Pardon us, while Mr Nabakov and I
extinguish the flames which are starting
to writhe from our nostrils.)
Finally: Jo, who writes plays—in
which (says Miss Alcott, turning the
screw ever so slightly) “she played male
parts to her heart’s content.” Jo also gets
her hair cropped short—“which will be
boyish, and easy to keep down.” Another
interesting, if minor, symptom for the
alienists, is Jo’s intense dislike for her
full name.
Jo, furthermore, takes a delight in
being hailed by her male friends as “a
nice chap!” or “There’s a good fellow!”
—a whim which is shared by only one
other notorious character in literature,
to wit, the infamous Miss Sally Brass,
inamorata of the equally infamous Daniel
Quilp.
Meantime, these vulpine little monsters
(Meg, Jo, Amy and Beth) never once
disclose their tiny fangs (tipped in crim-
son gore, to be sure) during their many
genteel posturings (in the Kitchen, on
the Croquet Rink, at Aunt March’s
Place, etc.) Only occasionally do we
catch a glimpse of the hellfires raging
beneath the surface.
In chapter 17, where Jo comes
home to find Beth “sitting on the medi-
cine chest, looking very grave, with red
eyes and a camphor bottle in her hand.”
What follows is like something out of
Kafka, or Arthur Koestler. Beth, appar-
ently, has been baby-sitting for the
Hummels a penurious Germanic
family who creep into the story from
time to time, wringing their hands, and
clutching their rags about their emaciated
bodies. But Beth, as I hinted earlier, is
a bad case of the Evil Eye.
“ . . .‘What’s the matter’ cried Jo. . . .
“ ‘O Jo, the baby’s dead!’ (of scarlet
fever.) ‘lt died in my lap!’
The wretched baby, of course, is hence-
forth dismissed as an Act of Miss Alcott’s
peculiar cleus ex machina, according to
whose motives a dead infant is an ex-
cellent excuse for a subsequent near-
deathbed scene played by Beth herself
(who, regrettably, recovers).
For in this situation, it is Beth, and no
one else, on whom Miss Alcott would
have us lavish our sympathy; an ex-
traordinary imbalance of sympathetic
rapport with the reader which is charac-
teristic of the author’s curious glycerine-
and-curare style. (As witness her treat-
ment of the Hummels, who are syste-
matically starved, or dogged by tragedy
in order that these infernal Little Women
may demonstrate both their sancti-
monious charity and their ghastly piety.)
Finally, let us take a long, keen look
at Meg who, towards the end, is toying
with the idea of becoming engaged to
another putty-faced hero, one John
Brooke.
Jo, of course, is dead set against the
betrothal. (Cf. her typical declaration in
chapter 20: “I knew there was mischief
brewing! I just wish I could marry Meg
myself, and keep her safe in the family!”
(Whew!)
Meg, however, displays a different
temperament; just how different you may
judge for yourself. For, in the last
chapter, Jo ever the phizzgig enters
the parlor unexpectedly, where—
. . she was transfixed upon the
threshold by a spectacle which held her
there, staring ... it certainly was a
shock to see the enemy (John B.) serene-
ly sitting on the sofa, with (her) sister
enthroned upon his knee, and wearing
an expression of the most abject sub-
mission ... Jo vanished without a
word. . . .”
And, racing upstairs, she broke the
good news to the family: “Oh do some-
body go down quick! John Brooke is
acting dreadfully, and Meg likes it!”
Oh golly. Oh God, oh Massachusetts!
Now read on:
“Nobody ever knew what went on in
the parlor that afternoon. . . .”
No, but we know, don’t we, kids?
We’ve read “Lolita,” “Lives of Fair and
Gallant Ladies,” and the Droll Stories
of Balzac. And as far as I’m concerned,
any of my own small fry are welcome
to browse through all or any of the last
three any time they want to. But not
“Little Women.” Remembering his own
hot flushes at the age of 7, their old
man’s put that particular volume right
at the head of the index.


UNSAVORY SANDWICH
Jemmy Twitcher. A life of John
Montagu, 4th Earl of Sandwich.
Martelli. Jonathan Cape.
fT-HERE is an old copy-book adage which
A informs us that “You cannot make
a silk purse out of a sow's ear” yet this
is precisely what Mr Martelli has endea-
vored to do in his biography of Jemmy
Twitcher who was better known to the
Navy of his day as “Dismal Jimmy”.
Mr Martelli admits that Sandwich was a
rake, a jobber, a party hack, and that
he was mean and heartless, but he claims
—mainly on the negative evidence of the
Navy Record Society for the years 1771-
1782—that he was an extremely able
administrator.
Mr Martelli fails in his main
endeavor but succeeds in giving an
admirable picture of the Whig adminis-
tration that led to the loss of the Ameri-
can Colonies.
Sandwich's life is the biography of a
man of simple tastes —he wanted money
and power and he devoted his not incon-
siderable ability and connections to see
that he enjoyed both as long as he lived.
Hence it is not surprising to find him a
Member of Parliament at the tender age
of 21 and at the age of 28 the British
Plenipotentiary at Breda for two and a
half years on a salary that varied from
£3650 to £5200 per annum. His failure
as a brash inexperienced negotiator,
whose support of William IV of Orange
split Austria, Holland, and Britain, was
followed by his appointment as First
Lord of the Admiralty.
As First Lord of the Admiralty Sand-
wich faced a situation different to the
mores of the mid-Twentieth Century.
Serving Officers were not precluded from
being Members of Parliament and took
advantage of their privilege to ventilate
their opinion of the state of the Navy.
It is evident that Sandwich’s administra-
tion of the Navy was not such as to give
confidence to the admirals who com-
manded the fleets and the correspondence
of Hervey, Howe, Rodney, Keppel and
Hood show this to be the case. Admirals
were chosen for political reasons, and
sometimes because they were “safe”
men, and this had a disturbing influence
upon the Fleet. After the fiasco of
Keppel’s Court Martial —surely a vindic-
tive display by Sandwich—the Admiralty
was distrusted completely by the sailors
afloat.
But the worst feature of Sandwich’s
political life is his treatment of John
Wilkes, the famous agitator and reformer.
Wilxes and Sandwich had been intimates
and had indulged copiously in the
passion for venery that is a mark of this
period. Both belonged to the select
twelve who made up the monks of Med-
menham—a blasphemous association of
roues who ran a Hell-Fire Club in what
had been a Cistercian Convent. Wilkes
was a Member of Parliament whose
publication of the “North Briton”
caused the Government considerable
alarm by reason of its vehement attacks.
Sandwich became the hatchet man whose
work it was to remove Wilkes and des-
troy his influence. It was another case
of Satan rebuking sin and is probably
the reason for the contempt that attaches
to Sandwich. Forged documents were
used: a general warrant was issued:
employees were suborned and the
Speaker intimidated, and Wilkes was re-
moved from being a Member of Parlia-
ment.
Perhaps the final word on Sandwich
is the reported conversation with Wilkes
when Sandwich is alleged to have
observed that Wilkes would either die on
the gallows or of venereal disease. To
this Wilkes replied, “That depends, my
lord, on whether I embrace your princi-
ples or your mistress.”
RICHARD HUNTLEY
THE SIN OF THE FATHER
The Sin of Father Amaro. Eca de
Queiroz; translated by Nan Flana-
gan. Max Reinhardt. 225. 6d.
T suppose most of us are inclined to
think that nowadays, with so many
translations available, there can be very
few significant foreign authors who have
not been translated into English if
they are worth translating at all. But
this is certainly not the case, and it is
now clear that an author stands 1 better
chance of becoming world-known if he
writes in one of the major languages.
Conrad has long belonged to world litera-
ture because he chose to write in English;
Cyprian Norwid still remains a tantalis-
ingly closed book for most of us be-
cause he wrote in Polish and only a
handful of the Polish classics have been
translated. Recent pressure from or on
UNESCO has resulted in the appearance
of many hitherto unknown Japanese
books but what of the Dutch, the
Finns and others? It was only in 1953,
when Roy Campbell brought out his
translation of “Cousin Bazilio”, that the
majority heard of the Portuguese Eca de
Queiroz, and it is to be hoped that Rein-
hardt, who has already published three
of his novels, will in time bring out a
complete translation of all of his work
for there can no longer be any doubt that
he is one of the very great nineteenth-
century European novelists.
“The Sin of Father Amaro”, first pub-
lished in 1874, tells the story of a young
orphan Amaro Vieira, slightly neurotic
and withdrawn, who enters the priest-
hood without inclination or any sense of
vocation and is appointed parish priest in
the town of Leiria. He takes up lodgings
close to the cathedral with a widow and
her beautiful daughter Amelia. Amelia
falls in love with Amaro; the priest is
tempted and finally succumbs when he
discovers that Amelia’s mother is the
canon’s mistress. But Amelia is also
loved by a reckless anti-clerical youth,
Joao Eduardo, who in a fit of jealousy
writes a long article on the corruption of
priests for a local revolutionary paper.
A great part of the interest of the novel
centres around the interweaving of the
lives and the probing of the motives of
these three central characters. The rela-
tionship between Amaro and Amelia
grows in intensity; there are scenes of
almost diabolical possession in this book
—for instance when Amaro persuades
Amelia to wear a new cloak that has
been made for a statue of the Virgin;
and Amelia finally dies after being de-
prived of the child she gives birth to.
This is a devastating and bitter book
about Portuguese society of the 1870’s
—but it presents us with a fully-rounded
view of that society. Amaro is counter-
balanced by the good and noble Abbot;
the opportunist and unjust “revolution-
aries” with the fourth-rate newspaper
by the honorable and frank free-thinker,
Dr Gouvea; and if a certain moralistic
anti-clerical note becomes obvious here
and there the author is nevertheless fully
in control of his material.
There is a curious parallel between
this novel and Zola’s “La Faute de
l’Abbe Mouret,” both of which appeared
within a year of each other. But where
Zola’s treatment is limited to one central
character and is, in some ways, a more
sympathetic book, Queiroz’ gives us the
picture of a whole society and his is the
better novel. It has a sharper edge, is
more incisive, unsparing and balanced;
and there is nothing in Zola’s novel to
equal the last scene in “The Sin of
Father Amaro” where the two priests
and the statesman, who have just heard
the news of the establishment of the
French Commune, stand talking together
in Loreto Square near the monument
of Camoes: where a brilliant and subtle
contrast is implied between the glory that
was Portugal, its vigor and moral energy,
and its present decline into laxity and
comfortable, ignorant optimism.
VIVIAN SMITH


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
BLUE MILK WILL SPELL DANGER
SOON IN VICTORIA
I>lue milk will spell danger soon in
Victoria. The blueness will mean
that the milk is contaminated with
penicillin the drug used freely by
dairy farmers in the treatment of the
common udder infection, bovine
mastitis.
The compulsory inclusion of a
brilliant blue marker dye in penicillin
used to treat mastitis is Victoria’s
attempted answer to the world-wide
problem of antibiotic residues in milk.
(Many doctors believe that minute
amounts of penicillin in milk can make
some people sensitive to the drug and
cause varying degrees of allergic reaction
in persons already sensitive.)
Victoria —which has tested the dye as
a marker—has jumped the gun on other
States, which are believed to be waiting
for the dye to be given the OK by the
National Health and Medical Research
Council. The additives sub-committee
of the National Health Council is under-
stood to be opposed to the use of the
dye. Some members of the sub-com-
mittee have expressed doubts as to its
safety.
Victoria’s Health Commission is,
however, entirely satisfied that the dye
is safe and does* not present any hazard
to public health.
Individual Victorian doctors, includ-
ing some specialists, are not so sure.
They are opposed to the inclusion of
dyes in foodstuffs especially basic,
often-consumed and widely used foods
such as milk. They say many dyes are
under suspicion overseas as possible
cancer-causers and no dye should be
added to food until it has been
thoroughly and exhaustively tested.
These doctors point out that while,
in theory, all milk containing the dye
will be tipped out, this will not happen
in practice. Where the milk contains
insufficient penicillin (and therefore in-
sufficient dye) to color it blue it will be
passed as pure. Thus Victorians will be
in danger of getting continual minute
doses of the dye.
Advocates of the Victorian scheme
say they believe regular spot laboratory
tests of milk at milk depots and dairy
factories will soon stop even small
amounts of penicillin reaching the
public. Apparently Victoria will also
encourage but not force dairy factories
and depots to carry out their own
laboratory tests for penicillin.
As a supporting measure Victoria will
forbid the sale of mastitis penicillin in
doses of more than 100,000 units.
There is a certain amount of the
“play - the- game- please - Mr - Dairy-
farmer” attitude in the Victorian scheme,
too, for Victoria cannot force the
inclusion of the blue dye in penicillin
produced outside the State and cannot
stop the sale or use of the unmarked
penicillin within Victoria.
When this was pointed out to him,
one State official commented: “I’m cer-
tain no responsible dairy farmer will
use unmarked penicillin when the dye
is available”. But, of course, no
responsible dairy-farmer would offer for
sale contaminated milk anyway!
Other antibiotics increasingly used
to combat resistant strains of mastitis —
will not contain the dye either.
It is true that these antibiotics are
obtainable only on veterinary prescrip-
tion, but it is not the vet who is respons-
ible for seeing that the milk from
treated cows is not tipped in with the
uncontaminated supply.
It will be interesting to see how
effective the Victorian scheme is and
whether the Victorian Department of
Agriculture will be willing to publish the
results of its spot tests when they begin.
CHEESE PRICES
DRASTIC STEPS TO COUNTER SLUMP
Australian and New Zealand dairy
industry leaders have taken drastic
steps in an attempt to bolster the prices
of their cheese on the fading British
market.
This market, worth £4m. a year
to Australia, has been hit by a price
slump—said to have been caused by a
big increase in British cheese production
on the eve of her entry into the Common
Market and by a build-up in Common-
wealth cheese stocks in Britain.
In an attempt to stop the price slide
and hold returns at —or only slightly
below —the present level, Britain, Aus-
tralia and New Zealand have agreed to
withhold from the British market a total
of 15,000 tons of cheese during the 12
months to December 31, 1962. Five
thousand tons of cheese will be withheld
by Britain herself—the rest by Australia
and New Zealand. The Australian share
is believed to be 3000 tons.
This means Australia will ship a maxi-
mum of 15,000 tons of cheese to Britain
this year and New Zealand a maximum
of 80,000 tons.
The three countries will establish a
joint fund to compensate Australia and
New Zealand for losses expected on the
sale on “other than normal markets” of
the diverted cheese. Australia will be
compensated for a maximum of 3000
tons.
Australian dairy leaders are reported
to be satisfied with the agreement. The
Australian quota of 15,000 tons is better
than our average sales in Britain over
recent years, but these sales have been
rising and this year dairy production in
Australia is running at record levels.
It seemed for a time that the new
agreement might be nullified by Euro-
pean dairy-producing countries. These
countries, largely shut out of the British
butter market by the recent imposition
of quotas, were threatening to switch to
cheese production and flood Britain with
European cheese. But the three sig-
natories to the recent price pact are re-
ported to have persuaded Holland to
limit her cheese sales in Britain to 1000
tons this year and efforts are believed
to be under way to achieve some similar
agreement from Ireland.
If these and other countries can be kept
from torpedoing the agreement, Austra-
lia should hang on to her important
British cheese market for a little longer
yet.
RICE
EXPORT SALES OYER £3.2m.
sales from the Australian rice
crop now being harvested on the
Murrumbidgee and Murray irrigation
areas have already exceeded £3.2m.
The rice will go to Hong Kong, Singa-
pore, Guam, Borneo, Britain, New Zea-
land, Okinawa and Papua-New Guinea.
Home market sales are expected to
amount to <£2.2m.


The Wild
Cat Pages and
THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
1962-63-A LOOK AT THE ECONOMY
'J'he immediate economic task in the
new fiscal year is to maintain the
momentum of internal recovery in the
face of only luke-warm business con-
fidence. There is a twofold problem
here. One involves the speed of
phasing-off fiscal stimulants as a more
full-throated and spontaneous response
from business takes up the running. The
other is to gauge the state of business
confidence itself.
In cutting back the rate of tax rebates
from 15 to 5 per cent next week, the
Government may well have shown its
hand on stimulants. It is quite improb-
able that the Budget will reverse this
decision, but it could decide to achieve
the same result by increasing welfare
benefits. We must wait and see. Mean-
while, what of business confidence?
On this score, note should be taken
of two warnings from business men last
week. In Sydney Mr F. Munro, Presi-
dent of the NSW Retail Traders’ Associa-
tion, hotly criticised suggestions that the
Budget should be slanted to counteract a
possible business boom. He said that
“to retailers with a finger on the public
pulse, this is arrant nonsense.”
Speaking in Melbourne, Mr. Charles
Allerdice, General Manager of Aus-
tralian Fixed Trusts, told a Press con-
ference that “things were somewhat
obscure and confidence was lacking”.
He compared the current position in
these respects to mid-1956 when obscur-
ity was followed by a gradual build-up
of confidence and the emergence of full
prosperity in 1957. As he saw it, a
return to the business buoyancy of 1960
was not “just around the corner”. He
seemed doubtful whether, in the absence
of a higher immigration intake, those
halcyon days would return, though he
suggested, inter alia, that this was a
“time to buy”. (This nod from an
institutional investor was barely recog-
nised by the share market).
The inference is that although in-
vestors should be getting into the market
while it is flat, business is not yet in
good enough heart to take over the
running from Government stimulants.
So even in face of charges that a
generous Budget for 1962-63 might
smack of political expediency, the
Government has the warning that while
everything will be all right in due course,
stimulants still have a role to play.
'This warning is underlined by the gener-
ally sluggish state of share markets.
If a strong uplift in business activity
was to be expected early in 1962-63,
share prices would surely have been dis-
counting it by this time despite the
shadows being cast by Wall Street. In-
vestors are, in fact, suspicious of the
portents of a recovery largely dependent
on Government stimulants. Equally, for
all the songs in Mr Staniforth Ricket-
son’s heart, there is no sign of an
upsurge of activity in the Australian
capital market which ordinarily would
reflect a revival in industrial investment.
In the light of all this evidence, the
Government would clearly be well
advised to hasten slowly in easing off its
stimulants and on no account should
it attempt to legislate for a boom later
in the year. “Sufficient to the day . . .”
and the current evil is the high level
of unemployment. Until business bucks
up a good deal more than it has so far
and there is much more assurance that
industrial investment is picking up, a
dramatic drop in unemployment in the
next few months cannot be taken for
granted.
With the acute labor absorption prob-
lems facing the economy here and now,
not to speak of the huge flow of school
leavers coming on to the labor market
in six months’ time, it would be dis-
astrous if the recovery were to run out
of steam for any reason. With these
pressing social and economic problems
to cope with, it is well worth the risk
of budgeting for a big deficit next month
and also stepping up public sector
investment to keep up, and even speed
the momentum of recovery.
Tn taking a calculated risk on this the
A Government can be fortified by the
very favorable position of the balance
of payments. Thanks to a record year
for exports, a recession-subdued level of
imports and a recently more buoyant
inflow of capital, overseas reserves are
high. Even allowing for some increase
in imports as the internal recovery gains
ground, and without import restrictions
to dam the flow (but with plenty of
other protective devices on hand), the
export outlook (particularly for wool)
is good enough for us to get through
1962-63 without balance of payments
troubles.
One cannot, of course, be too sure of
this, but the only cloud on the horizon
looks to be the Common Market, and,
at this stage, it is probably less threaten-
ing to our balance of payments than
many people think—for 1962-63 at any
rate. In any case, we can afford to
adopt expansionist policies when reserves
are very high, provided economic policy
is kept flexible to prevent them being
taken too far.
INDEX
The Economy in 1962-63 ... 41
Tax Return .... .... 42
Economics Anonymous .... 44
New Companies Act . 45, 46
Bank Lending May Slow Down 47
Investment Prospects .... .... 48
Talk on ’Change .... .... 49
An Underpriced Stock .... 50
Company Reviews .... 51, 52
One to Buy .... 53
Speculator’s Diary .... .... 54
Oil 55
Headache for Advertisers .... 57
The Television Race .... .... 59


HONESTY BEST TAX POLICY
A tax authority looks at filling in a return
/Confronted with the annual task of
disclosing his taxable income, many
a man discovers that not only his income
but also his conscience may be taxed.
Whatever his personal opinion is of the
taxing authorities, the preparation of an
income tax return should be undertaken
with all the seriousness and honesty of
which a reasonably intelligent man is
capable.
However, a person is not obliged to
organise his affairs to attract the maxi-
mum amount of taxation. This principle
is referred to in the so often quoted
English case the Duke of Westminster
v. Commissioner of Inland Revenue.
“Every man is entitled, if he can, to
order his affairs so that the tax attaching
under the appropriate Acts is less than it
otherwise would be. If he succeeds in
ordering them so as to secure this result,
then, however unappreciative the Com-
missioner of Inland Revenue or his fellow
taxpayers may be of his ingenuity, he
cannot be compelled to pay an increased
tax”.
With the heady effect of this dictum
ringing in our ears it is not surprising
that many artifices and stratagems are
concocted to avoid taxation, and it should
not be unexpected that a number of cat-
and-mouse games develop between the
Commissioner of Taxation and scheming
taxpayers.
The Income Tax Assessment Act is
prolix and its provisions contain a mul-
titude of legal niceties. Little wonder,
then, that there is as much a need in the
community for the tax agent as for the
solicitor, or the physician. An individual
with a high, or complex income structure
finds the services of a good tax agent
indispensable to advise and assist in the
organisation of his affairs so as to obtain
the maximum benefits available to him
under the law.
Tax laws change frequently and deci-
sions on cases referred are handed down
allowing new interpretations on the
Act’s provisions.
The Commissioner of Taxation is em-
powered under the Act to use his own
discretion on many matters. For ex-
ample, where loans are made to, or
payments are made on behalf of, share-
holders in a private company, the
Commissioner can regard such advances
as a dividend payment. He can also
disallow what he considers to be the
payment of excess remuneration to a
working shareholder or director, or a
working relative of a shareholder or
director.
This discretionary judgment is fre-
quently applied where in a proprietary
company wives of directors are em-
ployed. But provided the remuneration
is reasonable and the wife does actually
perform duties on behalf of the company
and enjoys the saving or spending of
her salary, there should be no argument
about the payment of the remuneration.
One elementary precaution to be ex-
ercised is that care must be taken in
checking calculations on the assessment
received. The Taxation Department does
not claim infallibility; errors can and do
occur in showing the amount of credit
for provisional tax paid previously, or
the credit allowed for group certificates,
or the amount of taxable income may
not coincide with that notified on the
return. Old returns and assessments
should be retained for reference, for it
could profit the taxpayer to carefully
check his return.
A s far as the deductions are concerned,
here are some examples of the
points frequently overlooked:
The person who pays interest on
money borrowed to invest should not
neglect to claim a deduction for the in-
terest paid against the income earned by
the borrowed money.
A taxpayer’s wife with income can
claim up to £lOO, in respect of the
education expenses she pays for the full
time education of her child, despite the
fact that the husband claims up to the
limit of the expenses which he pays.
This applies to medical expenses also,
where if the husband has claimed the
maximum, then, provided the wife paid
the excess expenses, she too may claim
up to £l5O maximum.
Where in a year a person has received
a distribution from an estate in which
he is a beneficiary, it is important that
the exact nature of that income should
be ascertained from the executors. Some
estate distributions are not taxable at all,
and if one that is taxable has a Common-
wealth Loan interest content, that portion
enjoys the rebate of 2/- in the £1 in the
beneficiary’s hands.
At the end of the financial year, if a
man has attained the age of 65, or a
woman 60 years, tax concessions are
available. An income of £455 may be
derived tax-free and the excess, up to
£520, is taxed at a concessional rate.
The concession does not apply to income
in excess of £520. If a taxpayer is over
65 there is no limit on the claim for his
medical expenses.
Many Australian taxpayers receiving
dividends from United Kingdom corm
panies frequently allow themselves to be
taxed on the gross dividend in England
and on the net dividend in Australia.
With a little patience, and a small
amount of paper work, a claim for re-
fund of a portion of United Kingdom
tax can be made.
Section 51 of the Act allows a deduc-
tion against income of “outgoings to the
extent to which they are incurred in
gaining or producing the assessable in-
come . . . except to the extent to which
they are losses or outgoings of capital
or of a capital private or domestic
nature . .
This section allows a variety of ex-
penses to be deducted, provided they
were incurred in production of the as-
sessable income.
Estimates of expenditure are crude,
incorrect, and can cause embarrassment
should the Taxation Department request
evidence to support the claim. Besides,
estimates are just as likely to be below
the actual expenses, as they are to be
above the real figures. Consequently the
keeping of proper records is important:
Cheque butts, pass sheets, accounts and
receipts should be carefully retained.
Should a taxpayer feel aggrieved at
the disallowance of a deduction, it should
be remembered that he can object and
the disallowance will be reconsidered.
There is no mystery about lodging an
objection; it requires only a formal letter
setting out the grounds upon which the
objection is based. This must be lodged
with the Department within 60 days of
the receipt of the assessment.
man who has no compunction
about failing to disclose income or
who overclaims expenses faces a stronger
opponent in the Taxation Department
than he does in his own conscience. The
penalties for failure to make a true and
full disclosure of income are harsh, and
if the taxpayer considers himself lucky
to escape detection during his life he
should remember that on his death his
beneficiaries are vulnerable.
It follows that it pays to be honest
in making returns, not that the tax-
gatherers are merciless extractors. Full
and fair consideration is given to cases
of hardship, to bona fide claims for
expenditure, and to genuine explanations
fo” errors. Even if a taxpayer doggedly
pursues a course of deliberate fraud, the
Commissioner will listen with an appear-
ance of sympathy to reasons why the
penalties should not be severe, but he
will not necessarily take any notice of
them.
Fairness is displayed in all determina-
tions, but it still pays the taxpayer to be
honest, well-advised and careful with the
lodgment of his return.


REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
7*
p.a. for 7 years
p.a. for 12 months
Other rates and terms available see
Prospectus for full details. Your copy
available from all Members of Stock
Exchanges, over 750 branches of the
A.N.Z. Bank Limited and I.A.C.
Branches.
Applications for stock will proceed
only on one of the forms of application
referred to and attached to a printed
copy of the Prospectus.
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
(Registered 19th December, 1929)
Branches af
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—BRISBANE—ADELAIDE—PERTH
HOBART—CANBERRA
Underwriting Brokers: lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Canberra, Sydney,
Adelaide and Brisbane.
8140 N
A TASMANIAN STEEL INDUSTRY?
A second Australian steel industry, so
often discussed in a pipe-dream
manner, could be established in Tas-
mania, if work on the enormously rich
Savage River iron ore deposits is brought
to fruition. Surface exploration, drilling
and sample testing have been going on for
some years now. The activity seems to
draw very little mainland attention.
Yet investigations have clearly and
unobtrusively moved well beyond the
preliminary stage. The somewhat
clouded present may appear to many an
odd time to raise the chances of later
developments, with the vast capital and
intensive planning involved. It is per-
haps merely necessary to state that the
Savage River iron environment has
already been examined by overseas
interests.
These interests British, American,
French—have certainly not been con-
cerned, as in Western Australia, only with
ore export possibilities. In each case
they are actual steelmakers, closely intent
on prospects of starting a wholly inte-
grated industry.
The Savage River deposits lie on the
north-west coast of Tasmania, about 15
miles from the mouth of the Pieman
River, the field is largely composed of
magnetite ore, which tests have shown
to be capable of treatment by electric,
direct-reduction processes. Blast furnace
operations are excluded because of a
significant titanium content.
Drilling over one-third of the area has
disclosed known reserves of 400 million
tons. The ore goes to a depth of 700
feet and extends over an area some nine
miles long and 300 feet wide. It may
be mined by open-cut methods.
Of almost equal importance is the
ready feasibility of cheap hydro-electric
power, for which Tasmania is noted, the
reasonably close availability of great
limestone sources, and a sufficiency of
local coal. The Tasmanian Government
has expressed willingness to build a new
hydro-electric scheme on the Pieman
River.
The present and still continuing investi-
gations of the giant ore body began in
August, 1955. A licence is now held by
Industrial Mining Investments Pty Ltd,
with which is closely associated Mr E. R.
Hudson, of Sydney. Indeed Mr Hudson
has become the driving force. Develop-
ments to date have involved expenditure
of about £400,000.
Complete co-operation has been
obtained from the Tasmanian Govern-
ment. The State's natural resources are
many and, in terms of the needs of a
steel industry, costs appear likely to be
quite low and comparable with B.H.P.’s.
The introduction of that great name
brings up the entire future constitution
of Australian steelmaking. It cannot be
forever supposed that B.H.P. will remain
our sole producer in perpetuity. The
politics, as well as the economics, of this
complex and vital industry would deter-
mine such a question.
But, apart from such issues, Australia's
progress must soon make urgent a
rational and orderly advance in a basic
material like steel. B.H.P. itself might be
the first to admit the difficulty of keep-
ing the country supplied in good years,
even with peak outputs and a tremen-
dous capital development plan.
A good deal of discussion of these
affairs has naturally centred around
Western Australia, with its tremendous
ore deposits notably at Pilbara and
Mount Goldsworthy. To some it has
seemed that, apart from the ore export
plans now in process, a steel industry
might also eventuate.
WA has equally been covered by the
glamor of great company names —Rio
Tinto, Consolidated Zinc, Consolidated
Gold Fields—which have, from time to
time, dropped hints of other than export
interests. And one of these groups could
perhaps decide to lend a hand with the
Tasmanian effort.


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £177,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the economic
growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O’Connell Streets, SYDNEY
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
THE SHOT THAT WENT ASTRAY
Tt has been fashionable for a long time
A in some quarters to treat the Treasury
as a sort of Aunt Sally at which any
throw is good enough to score a hit.
But one of the latest shots falls very wide
of the mark. This is the one that pur-
ports to show that official policy has
caused a massive shift from bank finance
to debentures, notes and deposits in the
provision of non-finance company fin-
ance.
The misdirected aim in this case de-
rives from a failure to distinguish be-
tween the essential character of bank
credit and fixed interest borrowing in
interpreting the balance sheet for in-
dustry over the years 1955-60 in the
latest issue of the Reserve Bank Statisti-
cal Bulletin.
This balance sheet, amalgamating the
accounts of some 950 non-finance public
companies, depicts an increase from
£152.5 million to £183.7 million in the
bank overdrafts over the five-year period
compared with the much bigger jump
from £l4l million to £443 million in the
money raised on debentures, notes and
deposits by the same companies over the
same period.
The reasons given for what is curi-
ously called this “swing away from bank
finance” are that “bank finance has been
rationed by official policy” (true enough
as a broad proposition) and that “bank
finance has only been available, when
it has been available, spasmodically” (a
gross understatement of the record of
credit provisions by the banks over the
period).
These inferences hold hardly any
water at all. The banks in Austrr'ia pro-
vide credit primarily for working capital
and hardly at all, either for long-term
and fixed investment (at least until the
recent creation of their £55 million fund
in the Reserve Bank for the purpose), or
directly for consumer credit.
It would be expected, ceteris paribus,
that the rise in the flow of bank credit
to non-finance companies between 1955
and 1960 would have been roughly in
proportion to the increase in the value
of output of manufacturing industry dur-
ing the period.
Indeed the two series show some di-
vergence. The value of manufacturing
industry output rose from £3,764 million
to £5,023 million between 1955-56 and
1959-60, or by about 33 per cent, as
against an increase of around 20 per
cent in bank overdrafts to the 950 non-
finance companies analysed by the Re-
serve Bank. In fact, the latter percentage
rather overstates the reliance on bank
borrowing by the companies because it
doesn’t take into account their cash hold-
ings and bank deposits.
These higher holdings of cash and
deposits in 1960 point up reasons why
the companies might have required com-
paratively little extra bank finance in
that year compared with 1955 the
much flusher liquidity of industry in
1960, the much higher profits in that
year, and the greater reliance on re-
tained profits to finance working capi-
tal needs. (A measure of these is the
huge increases in the values of stocks
and debtors over the period.)
Without going out of the way to white-
wash official policy, but simply to put
the record straight for the banks’ repu-
tation for providing the essential short
term credit for industry, it is simply not
true to say that the banks failed to give
industry the credit it needed m 1960 to
fertilise the boom in production in that
year.
Nor does it seem that the companies
swung away from bank accommodation
to the use of deposits from the public
for working capital requirements.
The truth is that the companies looked
(indeed had to look) to sources other
than the banks for the finance for these
massive increases in fixed investment and
they clearly did so very successfully be-
tween 1955 and 1960.
A DREAM THAT
CAME TRUE
By Croesus
YlThile it is better late than never
in coming, it is appalling that
NSW has had to wait more than 30
years for the major reform in com-
pany law, which becomes effective on
July 1, in the form of the Companies
Act 1961.
In the meantime, Victoria has had
the advantage of superior company
legislation for nearly 25 years. Sir
Alexander Fitzgerald, a noted Mel-
bourne accountant, reminded The
Bulletin last week that Victoria’s
new Act (which is on all fours with
the NSW Act) is little changed from
the State’s 1938 Act, which in fact led
the way in the reform of company
law not only in Australia but in
Britain as well. (The UK’s 1958 Act
was based on it.)
Tightening up the law in any field
is bound to meet with mixed feelings,
particularly in the company world,
in which there are so many people
bent on breaking it to their pecuniary
advantage. But though the new Com-
panies Act will only provide more dif-
ficult exercises in evasion and loop-
holing for diehards, create more work
and new sorts of headaches for com-
pany secretaries, cause directors un-
accustomed to disclose the true or full
state of their companies’ affairs to
writhe in their board rooms, it is all
pure gain for shareholders who have
been at the thin edge of their in-
vestments for far too long.
Investors in NSW have had to rely
more heavily on the Stock Exchange
to keep companies in line than have
their counterparts in some of the
other States, notably Victoria, and in
many respects, such as the disclosure
of information, all over the Common-
wealth the exchanges have been
powerless to get investors their due.
It is a happy coincidence that the
promulgation of the new Act in
NSW also marks the introduction of
uniform Companies Acts throughout
the Commonwealth, though some of
the States are a little behind in getting
their new Acts through. In the light
of the prejudices of some States and
their fear of further erosion of their
jurisdiction over business and com-
merce, a uniform Companies Act
looked only a dream. But persistent
efforts by the Federal Government
during the last ten years or more
have at length won the necessary
co-operation.


“Business expansion
UuMlflA) RJS Mtfr]
and assistance . •
AUSTRALIAN FACTORS
for five years
or more
LONG
TERM
84%
p.o.
I 4 years
8%
p.a.
3 years
7i%
p.o.
2 years
SHORT
TERM
7%
P-a.
12 months
bl°/o
p.a.
9 months
6%
p.a.
6 months
5i%
p.a.
3 months
51%
p.a.
at call
BANKERS: Australia & New Zealand Bank Ltd.
BROKERS TO THE ISSUE: Patrick & Co.
TRUSTEES: Permanent Nominees Pty. Limited.
HOW TO APPLY: Applications must be made on the form
attached to the Prospectus and the acknowledgment will be
a Registered Redeemable Unsecured Note. Applications may
be lodged at—
• Any branch of the Australia & New Zealand Bank Ltd.
• Any member of a Recognised Stock Exchange.
• Patrick & Co., 16 O'Connell Street, Brokers to the issue.
• Australian Factors Limited, 126 Phillip Street, Sydney.
Interest payable half-yearly—free of exchange .
AUSTRALIAN FACTORS LIMITED
AUSTRALIAN FACTORS LIMITED, 126 Phillip Street, Sydney.
Please send me, without obligation, a copy of your
Prospectus offering Registered Unsecured Notes.
Mr./Mrs./Miss.
Address
I 82»
SIGNIFICANT CHANGES IN THE NEW
COMPANIES ACT IN NSW
new Companies Act which comes
into operation in New South Wales
on July 1 introduces many changes
from the existing legislation, some of the
more significant of which are as follows:
NUMBER OF MEMBERS. The
minimum number of members of a
public company is reduced from 7 to 5.
In the case of a proprietary company
it remains at 2, although a proprietary
company all of whose shares are held by
a public company may lawfully carry
on business with only the one member.
TYPES OF COMPANY. In addition
to the existing distinction between public
and proprietary companies, the new Act
makes a further distinction between an
exempt proprietary company and other
(non-exempt) proprietary companies.
Broadly, an exempt proprietary com-
pany is a proprietary company none of
whose shares are deemed to be held by
a public company.
Elaborate provisions determine in
what circumstances a share in a pro-
prietary company is deemed to be held
by a public company. The principal
privileges granted to an exempt pro-
prietary company permit it to make
loans to its directors (something which is
generally prohibited with other com-
panies), and to dispense with the
appointment of an auditor if all its
members unanimously agree, each year,
that such an appointment is not neces-
sary.
In addition, such a company is not
required to lodge copies of its annual
financial statements with the Registrar.
The definition of holding and sub-
sidiary companies places more emphasis
on control of one company by another
than on a mere shareholding by one in
another, and makes it clear that sub-
subsidiaries are included in the definition
of subsidiary.
Another new provision is one which
prohibits a subsidiary from acquiring
shares in its parent company, and which
withdraws voting rights from shares so
held at the commencement of the Act.
POWERS OF COMPANIES. The
new Act goes very far towards a com-
plete abolition of the doctrine of ultra
vires by severely limiting the circum-
stances in which a company’s lack of
power or capacity to do some act may
be asserted. It also contains in a schedule
a number of powers of a standard
character, and enacts that every com-
pany is deemed to have those powers
unless its memorandum or articles
expressly excludes or modifies them.
It will be interesting to see what effect
these provisions have on the length and
verbosity of objects clauses in memor-
anda of association.
ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT. All
companies, whether public, proprietary
or exempt proprietary, must annually
present to members accounts (balance
sheet and profit and loss account) and
directors’ reports, all of which are to
contain at least the information required
by the Act.
The Ninth Schedule details the in-
formation to be given in the balance
sheet and profit and loss account, and it
requires the disclosure of much more in-
formation than has previously been the
case.
Special provision is also made in that
Schedule for a holding company’s
accounts, to which must be attached


FACTORY PREMISES
FOR SALE
OR LEASE
The property is situated in
MORTON, BROUGHTON AND PEMBERTON STREETS
PARRAMATTA
The area comprises Ilf acres, of which four acres are zoned for light industrial
use. The improvements comprise a modern steel-framed corrugated fibro factory,
comprising offices, full amenities, sprinkler system, excellent access and containing
72,000 square feet. The property has rear line boundary to the Parramatta River.
The company owning the property is available for purchase as a loss company,
if desired.
For further information write:
"FACTORY"
C/- BOX 2422, G.P.O.
SYDNEY.
either a separate balance sheet and profit
and loss account for each subsidiary, or
a consolidated balance sheet and profit
and loss account of the holding company
and all its subsidiaries.
In addition, the name and place of
incorporation of each subsidiary in the
group has to be stated. However, these
special provisions only apply where the
parent company has a majority holding
in the subsidiary.
The accounts must be audited except
in the case of an exempt proprietary
company whose members have dispensed
with the appointment of an auditor, and
must be lodged with the annual return
by all companies other than exempt pro-
prietary companies.
All balance sheets, profit and loss
accounts and directors’ reports sub-
mitted to annual meetings will have to
comply with these requirements.
DIRECTORS. Amongst new require-
ments relating to directors is one which
binds directors to act honestly, and pro-
hibits them from using their position
so as to gain any improper advantage
for themselves (requirements which are
probably little more than declaratory of
the existing law).
There is also a statutory age of 72
for directors of public companies and
their subsidiaries, and an obligation to
maintain a register of directors’ hold-
ings of shares or debentures in the com-
pany concerned.
The object of this is apparently to
record and bring to light dealings by
directors, directly or through nominees,
in the company’s shares, etc.
Further, a public company is given a
statutory right to remove a director at
any time, although without prejudice to
any right to compensation which a direc-
tor so dismissed might have.
TAKEOVER BIDS. These are now
subject to some measure of statutory
control, as the new Act contains a set
of requirements with which a takeover
offer must comply, and binds the bidder
to submit its offer together with a state-
ment containing a prescribed minimum
of information. The obligations of the
directors of the company in respect of
which the bid is made are also laid down.
All these requirements are designed
to assist members of the offeree com-
pany to form a proper judgment on the
merits of the offer.
OVER SUBSCRIPTIONS. Although
the new Act does not prohibit a public
company from accepting and retaining
over-subscriptions on a public issue of
debentures or unsecured notes (the
latter, incidentally, must now be
described as “unsecured notes” and not
as “debentures”), it permits it to do so
only under specified conditions.
For instance, a limit must be set on
the amount of over-subscriptions to be
retained, and statements of asset back-
ing are to be restricted to statements as
to what are the company’s total assets
and liabilities, and what they would be
if over-subscriptions up to the specified
limit were accepted and retained.
MINORITIES. The new Act contains
several provisions designed to ameliorate
the possibly unhappy lot of a minority
shareholder. The most important pro-
vision is one which gives a member of
a company who considers that the affairs
of the company are being conducted in
a manner oppressive to some part of the
members, including himself, the right to
apply to the court for an order putting
to an end the state of affairs com-
plained of.
In time, the mere fact that this power
can be used might form a pretty power-
ful weapon in the hands of an oppressed
minority of shareholders.
GENERAL. These comments touch
on only a few of the changes made in
New South Wales by the 1961 Act. The
legislation will no doubt have a few
teething troubles, but any inconvenience
caused by the new provisions will be
more than offset by the advantages
which the “Uniform” Companies Acts
will give once all States have passed the
necessary legislation.
LETTER TO THE FINANCE EDITOR
OIL FROM COAL
Sir,
In the mid-1920s when there was a
surge of oil-seeking throughout the
world, the South African Government
ordered an enquiry into the possibility of
finding natural crude petroleum oil there.
The finding of a committee of experts was
that there was no prospect of locating oil
in commercial quantities anywhere in
South Africa. With the years, much
thought and research were directed to
synthetic processes for producing petro-
leum.
World War II gave the impetus to
investigations into the hydrogenation of
coal to give much-needed oil fuels and
the most successful was the German
Fischer-Tropsch process. Meanwhile, the
South African Government had been
planning such a project and had made
all the necessary surveys. By 1947
progress reached a stage to warrant Par-
liamentary approval for the undertaking.
Construction started in 1950 and the
plant was in pilot production in 1955.
Capital outlay was <£A5B million, ap-
proximately £AIO million less than has
been spent in Papua-New Guinea and the
Australian mainland in searching for oil
to the end of 1960. The South African
people have these assets to show for
their money:
A complete hydrogenation plant pro-
ducing yearly 40 million gallons of petrol,
plus all types of fuel oil, benzol, ammo-
nium sulphate, creosotes, tars, waxes,
petroleum gas and oxygen;
A mechanised colliery supplying 2i
million tons of coal each year;
Employment for 5,000 people (2,600
Europeans and 2,400 Bantu natives).
A modern town located near the plant
and colliery site, 50 miles from Johan-
nesburg.
Just consider the vast potential from
such an industry operating, say, on that
low-grade central Queensland coal. Forty
million gallons a year is 3941 barrels a
day, and that is not a bad oil well.
I think we should look closely at an
“oil from coal” project for this continent.
H. J. STOREY
Full art on (SA).


Add ELECTRICITY to YOUR assets-
Invest in the
PROSPECT
COUNTY COUNCIL
n/L°
L
Electricity supply is one of Australia’s fastest-expanding industries, and 20%
of the nation’s public works expenditure is on power. The second largest
electricity undertaking in N.S.W., the Prospect County Council serves 400,000
people in Western Sydney, where industrial and housing developments are
making striking headway.
86% of the increase in factory employment in Sydney in 1960-61 was in
establishments supplied with power by the Prospect County Council. 2,000
new homes are under construction on one housing estate alone.
You can invest for 7, 10 or 20 years with Prospect, secure in the knowledge
that your interest will be paid every 6 months, and your capital refunded in
full at maturity. Your security is Council’s annual revenue, estimated at
£8,500,000 for 1962, and reserve rating powers.
The Loan is an Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W.
Apply at any branch of the Commonwealth Trading Bank; Australia and
New Zealand Bank Limited; Bank of New South Wales; The Commercial
Banking Company of Sydney Limited; or through a Stockbroker; or at the
Council’s offices (or ’phone 637-0144).
THE
PROSPECT COUNTY COUNCIL LOAN
Underwritten by
Ralph W. King & Yuill
Ernest L. Davis & Co.
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
BANK LENDING
MAY SOON
SLOW DOWN
What will be your banker’s attitude
7 to lending during the next three
months?
January-February of this year was a
period when the trading banks had the
highest liquidity for many years. Re-
ports on these high liquidity levels were
coupled with suggestions of a stagnating
economy, inability to absorb school
leavers, and a possible tendency to a
rise in unemployment levels. The
Reserve Bank indicated that a new
lending commitment rate of up to £-10
million a week was desirable.
April and May saw a dramatic
change. Bank advances actually in-
creased £37 million in April. May saw
an increase of a further £l3 million.
This indicated that Treasury and
Reserve Bank action through the trading
banks was taking effect. The April-May
aggregate increase of £5O million in
advances showed that the trading banks
were feeling the effects of commitments
made earlier.
If we pause to think of our banker’s
attitude to lending in the next three
months, say to September 30, we have
the immediate statistics of bank ad-
vances increasing £5O million in April-
May and deposits last month falling
£4O million.
Bankers’ predictions for the Septem-
ber quarter are that deposits should flow
into the trading banks again in accord-
ance with previous seasonal patterns.
It is thought that at this stage the
Reserve Bank has already indicated to
the trading banks that it would prefer
to see a slowing down in new commit-
ments, since the average use of limits
is beginning to be felt. It can be
assumed that the Reserve Bank has
probably already advised the trading
banks that it looks to each bank to
manage its affairs in such a way that it
will not be necessary to resort to Central
Bank borrowing to maintain the pre-
scribed liquidity ratios.
It can now be considered that in the
September quarter the attitude of the
bank manager to lending will be one of
caution, and the task of the borrower a
little more difficult than it has been in
the past year.
My recommendation to the possible
borrower is: Watch your own liquidity
for the September quarter; accommoda-
tion may not be as easily obtained then
as it has been in the past 12 months.
THE BANKER


DO YOU LIKE
THE NEW LOOK
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 2521 G.P.0., Sydney
NAME
ADDRESS
Please arrange for my BULLETIN to
be delivered to me each week by
MY NEWSAGENT
BY DIRECT SUBSCRIPTION
Please tick ( y) whichever method of
delivery you prefer.
For those desiring direct sub-
scription:
Please find enclosed my cheque/money
order for months subscription to
THE BULLETIN.
RATES (Australia and New Guinea): 1 year—
£2 125.; Vi year—£l 6s. Post free. British
Dominions: £3 6s. Other countries: £3 16s.
N.Z. SUBSCRIPTIONS (Remit to Box 965,
Wellington, N.Z.): 1 year—£2 12s. (N.Z.
currency): «/ 2 year— £l 6s. (N.Z. currency).
Please add exchange to cheques.
Perhaps this is the first issue ofrHE BULLETIN you
have read. But whether you are a new reader or an
old one why don't you make sure of YOUR copy of
THE BULLETIN by ordering it each week? There are
two ways of doing it either through your newsagent
or by direct subscription. The form at left offers you
your choice of method of delivery. You may send us
your name and address and we will arrange for the
newsagent nearest you to deliver your copy of
THE BULLETIN each week and charge it to your account.
Or, if you prefer it, we will mail each week's copy
to your address by direct subscription.
Tiie
Bulletin
Incorporating The Australian Financial Times
INVESTMENT
SECTION
MIXED PROSPECTS FOR
INVESTORS IN 1962-63
HThe closing days of the 1961-62
-®- financial year have introduced,
rather suddenly, certain reservations in
examining company prospects for the
months ahead. Until a very few weeks
ago, the Australian economy appeared
destined to course along the steady and
thorough improvement plotted by its
pastors and masters. Echoes of the
1960 credit squeeze were to fade in
a well-nourished, non-inflationary at-
mosphere.
Some visionaries had even desired
glimpses of an awkward, incipient
boom. This a “political” Budget may
bring (see editorial). Anyhow, the
coming drove of corporate reports could
perhaps illustrate vestiges of past
difficulties, but should almost uniformly
point a clear path forward. Such a hope-
ful pattern may yet largely obtain—an
irregular 1961-62 leading to a widely
spread upswing throughout 1962-63.
This kind of picture, having drawn
the Common Market into focus, re-
mained still uncomplicated by any
portent of happenings in America.
These are now spreading a full measure
of world-wide doubts. It had hardly
seemed possible to call the US economy
in question, whatever Wall Street might
think.
Real or unwarranted, however, the
flood of questionings casts a pall over
the prevailing international economic
climate, where at the same time auto-
matic growth does not look so simple as
it once did. Some of the puzzlement may
rub off in Australia.
In sheer terms of our internal
possibilities, it does not need to straight
away, whatever occurs. Some of our
vital indicators, employment and use of
bank overdrafts for instance, already
suggest a slower recovery than we might
have wished for. On the other hand,
there are not lacking plenty of signs of
more virile business activity.
Large productive areas have started
particularly definite advances just
recently, so that sectional profit trends
may be more clearly guessed at. The
year now closing will certainly display
great unevenness again among hire-pur-
chase earnings, textiles and producers
of heavy productive equipment. Erosion
of profit margins due to keen com-
petition will once more be especially
noticeable.
These were all features of the
previous, 1960-61 year, arrested in swift
inflationary swing. Also ripe for
repetition are generally lower earnings
from development financers and a fairly
extensive range of builders.
Mention of building, though, shows
where a good deal of present better-
ment is expressing itself. New house
and flat approvals are supported by
sustained increases in the output of
many materials and components. Like-
wise the higher registrations of new
motor vehicles must not be missed for
their ramifying effects throughout the
squeeze-stricken automotive trade.
The latest production figures confirm
a better textile position, but obvious
international influences may color pros-
pects here. Best, in the light of some
of the heaviest company losses of 1960-
61, are the growth trends among con-
sumer durables refrigerators, washing
machines, electrical appliances, tele-
vision sets.


PLANNING
BUSINESS
9
EXPANSION
■m
V"
If so, the C.B.C. will be
happy to discuss your
plans with you.
The C.B.C. is banker to
many of Australia’s largest
commercial and industrial
undertakings and many
other smaller but import-
ant enterprises. The bank
knows the Australian
market and its potential.
Many successful firms
have found this bank's
advice a valuable guide to
planning.
Whether you are a
customer, or not, you are
invited to call on any of
our managers who will
gladly explain how the
bank’s services can help
you.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
TALK AROUND CHANGE
T . J. Hooker Investment Corporation
may succeed in stifling some market
chatter as one consequence of its happily
arranged American loan. The stock seems
always to be reacting to rumors of one
sort or another, the latest batch even pre-
dicting a blunt loss for 1961-62. When
the December half-year’s report arrived
at the end of April, directors were hope-
ful of a small profit over the full period,
but could since have decided to handle
trading assets more ruthlessly.
The shares’ brief mid-May kick up to
6s. 6d. did not take long to weaken and
prices have since hovered uncomfortably
close to par. But these accessions to
liquidity (I.A.C. helped a short while
ago on buying into Centenary Estates)
can brighten the medium-term picture.
Fidelity-Philadelphia Trust’s middle-
man, the übiquitous Mr W. P. Carey,
assuredly negotiated an interest rate
chiming with Hooker directors’ desires to
look for cheaper money. Better still, the
first one million dollars at 5f p.c.,
well below local possibilities, may be
followed by more well-spread additions.
The new funds will filter through some
of the corporation’s larger developments
—pastoral, city commercial and satellite
townships. To keep the rumor-pot sim-
mering comes talk of sale of the 40 p.c.
interest in Hooker Finance.
IDrambles Industries Ltd has not had
the best of trading this year. But
there are sections of the market which
firmly believe the current share price of
15s. is discounting the results too much.
Last year the ss. shares peaked at 255.
6d. (and 325. the year before) and the 40
p.c. fall may not be justified by the
year’s results.
The 20 p.c. dividend will be paid;
and if it is covered by profit, the market
will make an upward reappraisal.
VI/hile Bitumen & Oil continues to
intrigue the market about its pro-
posed merger with H. C. Sleigh (see One
To Buy), the board is not letting that
development take up all its time.
In the next week or two we should
get details of a new oil search offshoot,
Boral Explorations. The public will be
invited to subscribe through lan Potter
& Co.
From what can be gleaned at this stage,
Boral Explorations will be an investment
company rather than an active searcher.
/WS.R.’s now revealing interim report
was seen at the time to be not nearly
so doom-laden as a few too quickly-
reading prophets considered, chemicals
and building materials doubts thrown in.
Though last week’s dividend lift sur-
prised most people, directors had previ-
ously done a sober and rather muted best
to suggest improved overall hopes, especi-
ally with sugar. The year’s results sup-
ported this impression.
They also confirm the less inhibited
and more vociferous optimism of some of
the smaller Queensland growers, who will
now draw further market attention.
Pioneer, Fairymead and Millaquin did not
hide their hopes under a bushel, despite
the Common Market.
1%/I'inster Ltd, the Dandenong carpet
manufacturer, is reported to be
moving into the linoleum business with
an English company before the end of
the year. It is also venturing with Clyde
Industries Ltd into the reclamation of
rubber from old tyres, etc.


RAYNORS HOLDINGS LTD
AN UNDERPRICED STOCK IN THE
AUTO. APPLIANCE INDUSTRY
By SECURITY
A ttention has recently been focused
on the recovery which has taken
place in motor vehicle registrations
and it has been suggested that this
should warrant investors’ attention
being turned to the automotive distri-
butors, and to some of the companies
which service the automotive industry.
Raynors Holdings describes itself as
“the Jewellers to Industry” and sup-
plies a wide range of badges and other
trims not only to the automotive indus-
try but to manufacturers of other
durable consumer goods. As it also
appears that there has been a recovery
in the appliance industry, conditions at
present point to Raynors turning in a
considerably improved profit for the
year to June 30, 1962.
There can be no doubt that the year
to June 30, 1961, was a difficult one
for the company because net profit
after tax fell by 26 p.c. and it would
appear that the liquidity position
reached a stage where the company
found it necessary to obtain from the
A.M.P. Society £50,000 in the form
of an expensive preference share issue
which, bearing a dividend commitment
of 8 p.c., is virtually equivalent to
borrowing at the rate of 131 p.c.
Even so, the 10 p.c. dividend was
covered 1.3 times by the net profit
after tax for that year, and this com-
pares very favorably with the result of
a number of the company’s customers,
for example, Email, whose dividend
was not covered; General Industries,
whose dividend was passed; Pope
Industries, whose dividend was passed;
and Electronic Industries, whose divi-
dend was not covered.
While it is always difficult to predict
the future in the long term, there is
reason to believe that the development
of secondary industry in Australia will
continue at a fairly high rate, if only
to absorb the increasing work force.
This has been noticeable in the past
and a recent prediction suggests that
the engineering group will continue to
demand the largest portion of the
manufacturing work force.
This means that a considerable pro-
portion of this group—the automotive
and appliance industry—must continue
to expand, and Raynors, which is
almost unchallenged in its particular
field, will continue to expand as well.
The upward trend, both in capital and
profitability continued up till June 30,
1960, at a fairly marked rate. Both
total capital (in the form of net work-
ing capital plus fixed assets) was
increasing at the rate of 27 p.c. per
annum and operating income was
keeping step with this rate of expan-
sion; in fact, it was an almost identi-
cal increase.
No longer can the investor in equity
shares reap rewards from investing
blindly. Price, earnings ratios, growth
factors and industry potential are just
a few of the facets of today’s
complex corporate system that have
to be considered carefully before any
degree of success can be assured. This,
then, has led to a new profession—
security analysis.
“Security” is one of Australia’s
leading security analysts. His com-
ments on selected stocks will appear
regularly in THE BULLETIN.
The company made a new issue of
shares on a one-for-one basis at par
in November 1959 and during the
same financial year it obtained a
further loan of £40,000, followed by
an increase of another £lO,OOO in the
next year. At the beginning of the
financial year 1960-61, the company
extended its interests outside New
South Wales when it acquired two
companies in Victoria and South Aus-
tralia.
It would appear from the directors’
interim statement and also from the
reference made in the directors’ report
for the year to June 30, 1961 (which
was presented at the beginning of
December), that the improvements in
profits for the current year only date
from around the beginning of Novem-
ber.
In this case, a return to past profit-
ability can hardly be expected for this
year although it should represent a
substantial improvement over the 1961
year. Even so, it is considered that the
dividend requirement of approximately
£37,000 could be covered nearly twice
and it would not be impossible, pro-
viding the recovery continues into the
1962-63 year, that earnings could well
increase to £lOO,OOO per annum and
this figure would represent a return on
capital of just over 27 p.c.
The history of the company’s share
price movements suggests that this
stock should sell at around 13 times
earnings. Present price of just over
10s. undervalues the shares, unless it is
not expected that the profits for this
year will reach the 1960 level despite
the acquisition of the Victorian and
South Australian subsidiaries and the
new capital which was raised in the
latter half of 1960.
At the present time, it would seem
that a share price of around 13s. would
probably be more appropriate, and if
the earnings should rise to £lOO,OOO
in the following year, a 13-times earn-
ing ratio would suggest a price of
about 17s. 6d.
Unfortunately the dividend rate of
10 p.c. appears a bar to a substantial
rise in the share price unless a new
issue is made on extremely beneficial
terms to existing shareholders as was
done on the last occasion.
This issue would have had the effect
of giving shareholders an effective
increase of 50 p.c. in their dividend
income over a period of less than
three years. If this increase in divi-
dend income continues at only 3 p.c.
per annum on average to show an
increase of 35 p.c. in 10 years, a price
of 12s. 6d. would show a return of
7 p.c. in the long term.
RAYNORS HOLDINGS. (£,000)
BALANCE SHEET AND PROFIT STATEMENT
SUMMARIES
1958 1959 1960 1961
Current Assets 220 263 364 273
less Current Liabilities 221 244 298 155
Working Capital —1 19 66 118
Land & Buildings 147 148 194 237
Plant etc. 136 147 252 284
Intangibles 78 78 79 117
Total Capital 360 392 591 756
Represented by
Loan Capital 110 107 104 111
Preference Capital 50
Ordinary Capital 165 165 330 368
Reserves 85 120 157 227
Total 360 392 591 756
Est. Operating Income 78 105 121 96
Earnings 38 52 61 45
Dividends 16 16 25 35
Surplus 22 36 36 10
Dividend Yield % (a) 6.5 4.0 4.5 5.9
Price/Earning Ratio, (a) 6.8 15.8 13.2 13.8
High Share Price 7/9 18/6 14/9 10/6
Low Share Price 5/8 7/6 9/6 7/-
(a) based on last sale in month accounts
presented.


m
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS, £907,151.
TANGIBLE ASSETS, £3,037,528.
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
Financing world-
famous products
distributed by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies.
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
in Queensland
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
in Queensland
GROUP SALES
YEAR ENDED
31/12/61
£11,983,892
MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD. b.30/6
G.P.0., Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 24/5J62, giving fiill details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
HD.FX
COMPANY REVIEWS AND NOTES
TOOTH AND CO. LTD
IMMUNE TO ALL SHOCKS
Tn the face of a growing taste for
domestic and imported wines and
spirits, beer remains the national drink
of Australians. Not even the fact that
about half the price of each glass goes
to the Government deters them.
Consumption grows steadily following
population increase and a rising stand-
ard of living. In the 1958-59 financial
year beer production in Australia
totalled 224 million gallons, the follow-
ing year 232 million, and in 1961-62,
242 million gallons. For the last three
months for which statistics are avail-
able February, March and April —-
production was 58.5 million gallons
compared with 56.7 million in the same
months of 1961.
The dominating power in the NSW
brewery trade is Tooth and Co. Ltd,
with three breweries and over 630
hotels, and controlling perhaps 400
more. Its opposition is the smaller com-
pany, Tooheys Ltd, and R. W. Miller
(whose interests embrace coal mines and
shipping), which recently announced its
intention of floating as a public com-
pany.
Tooths has been trading since 1888,
and in 1929 took over Resch’s Ltd. The
company also makes a range of “Blue
Bow” aerated waters and cordials.
Reticence as to true earnings and
assets strength is a characteristic of the
brewing trade. Tooths seems almost
ashamed to reveal how successful it has
been. The tax provision is never
revealed, but this situation will be
remedied next year to conform with the
uniform company legislation.
Disclosed profits never give much
cover for the dividend, but a glimpse
of inner reserves was afforded to share-
holders in 1954 when certain assets of
the company were revalued by over £3
million, and certain “adjustments” were
made to the obsolescence and con-
tingencies account which had the effect
of increasing reserves by almost £4
million. Again in 1958 the company
produced roughly £5 million from the
cupboard, which consisted of amounts
provided in the past against certain
assets, now no longer required.
Brewery properties and plant have
been well maintained. In recent years
new malt mills have been built and
a new conveying system installed at the
Carlton Street barley store. Now a large
new cellar block is under construction
at the Waverley brewery and a new
tradesmen’s block and loading stage at
the Kent brewery. Other plant modern-
isation at Kent brewery, particularly,
has kept the company’s assets up to
scratch.
Extension of liquor hours in NSW
from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m. in 1955, and
severe competition from licensed clubs,
compelled Tooths as well as other
hoteliers to reconstruct or modernise
hotel premises. In the last financial year
four Tooths’ suburban and country


Dtl
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT Co. Ltd.
Financier . . Established 1882
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
Interest payable quarterly through the Bank of N.S.W. Free of Exchange.
THIS ISSUE HAS BEEN OVERSUBSCRIBED
Applications will not be accepted after June 30th, 1962.
Application Forms (and Prospectuses)
will be Forwarded on Request
Applications will be accepted only on one ol the forms
of application attached to the printed copy of the Pros-
pectus which may be obtained from:
• All branches of the Bank of New South Wales in New
South Wales, Australian Capital Territory, Victoria,
Queensland.
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange, or
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
Head Office: 74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 4521-2-3.
AND BRANCHES
Underwriting Brokers :
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange).
20-22 O’Connell Street, Sydney
84 William Street, Melbourne. S4O Queen Street, Brisbane
BROKERS IN VICTORIA
Clarke 8c Co., 450 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
BROKERS IN QUEENSLAND
Charles Elliott & Son, 356 Queen St., Brisbane
(Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
BROKERS IN CANBERRA
T. J. Thompson & Sons, C.B.C. Chambers,
Petrie St., Canberra.
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
.
z
2
PER ANNUM
FOR 5 YEARS
6% for 2 years
for 3 years
7% for 4 years
hotels have been completely rebuilt and
four others extensively remodelled. It
is always on the lookout for hotel
properties, as this is the form com-
petition takes, there being no price
cutting in the trade.
Following the Victorian lead, Tooths
commenced the canning of beer in
April, 1962. This may assist the com-
pany’s export trade, which already is of
valuable proportions.
Published profit rose from £1,470,421
in 1961 to £1,504,829 in 1962, year to
March. After the one-for-six par issue
(the first appeal to shareholders for
funds for 26 years), earnings on average
ordinary capital declined from 15.8 to
14.7 p.c. Previous disclosures were at
the rate of 14.8 p.c. in 1960, 14.2 p.c.
in 1959, 13.7 p.c. in 1958, 13.3 p.c. in
1957 and 1956, and 12.7 p.c. in 1955.
Visible reserves rose to £14,210,829,
after repetition of the previous year’s
13i p.c. dividend rate: —
Net To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit Dividends serves serves
£ £ £ £
’53: i,013,739 15V2p.c.= 958,312( 45 427 4,137,935
Employees’ fund, £lO,OOO . |
Assets revaluation res., £3,091,329 . 7,229,264
Unexplained additions, £3,987,390 . 11,216,654
’54: 1,075,076 16 p.c. = 989 225 ) 75 851 n,292,505
Employees fund, £lO,OOO . j
Reserve capitalised, £3,091,329 .... 8,201,176
’55: 1.180,909 ll 1 /2p.C.=1.066,508 ( 104 4(}l 3 305 577
Employees fund, £lO,OOO ..j
Mar.,
's6:* 619,361 12 pc. == 556,439 ( 57 922 8,363,499
Employees fund, £5,000 ...j
’57: 1,238,964 12Vip.c.==l 136,064 f 92 900 3 456 399
Employees fund, £lO,OOO ..j
Provisions w/b'ack, etc., 5,038,291 .. 13,494,618
’ 5B: 1’ 2 , 78 ’ 411 , 12 1 /2P.c.=1,158,248| n0 163 43 604,781
Employees fund, £lO,OOO ..j
’59: 1,322,171 123/ 4 p.c.=l 182,433t 129 7 3 8 43,734,549
Employees fund, £lO,OOO ..J
’6O: 1,368,172 13y 2 p.c.=l 228 804 h 2 i 3 ,86 3 ,887
Employees’ fund, £lO,OOO ..)
’6l: 1,470,421 13 1 /2P.C.=1,251,988 t 2 .„n 433 14 07 9 320
Employees’ fund, £lO,OOO .. ’ ’ ’
’62: 1,504,829 13 V 2 p.C.=1,356,320 h 4B - og 44 2 10 829
Employees’ fund, £lO,OOO . .j i 4S ’ 3Ua ’
*Six months only; dividend at rate p.a.
Depreciation written off plant, machin-
ery and rolling stock was £936,849,
compared with £923,468 in 1961. Over-
draft of almost £400,000 has been con-
verted to a cash position of £112,000:
1960 1961 1962
£ £ £
Paid capital 9,273,986 9,273,986 10,819,650
Reserves 13,863,887 14,072,320 14,210,829
Overdraft 276,687 389,930
Creditors 7,245,627 7,371,247 6,027,610
Employees’ fund 192,348 207,141 220,729
Final dividend 625,994 625,994 730,326
£31,478,529 £31,940,618 £32,009,144
£ £ £
Freehold 19,602,082 19,700,037 19,700,318
Plant 3,656,082 3,631,475 3,745,581
Shares other cos. 17,000 17,000 17,000
Stocks 1,892,339 1,908,392 2,052,137
Debtors 6,126,254 6,508,260 6,206,667
Cash, bonds,
deposits 184,772 175,454 287,441
£31,478,529 £31,940,618 £32,009,144
Shareholders may have been dis-
appointed that 1961-62 brought no
increase in their dividend income. Since
1955 Tooths has made small annual
increments to the dividend, lifting it
from lli to 13i p.c. But the company
had a greater capital to service this
year and management exercised its
usual caution.
The drinking public has demonstrated,
in good times and bad, that beer
remains a staple element in its diet. The
trend to drinking in clubs was loudly
voiced as a depressing factor in the
brewing trade. But when Tooth’s hotels
were in the books ridiculously low, the
shareholder was immune to shock.
Beer consumption per capita is lower
now than in 1956 when excise duty was
raised substantially, so that there is
scope for greater production to restore
the 1956 rate of consumption.
Introduction of new company legisla-
tion should obviate Tooth’s practice of
producing huge previously undisclosed
reserves with complete arbitrariness.
Shareholders should have a better in-
formed view of their company’s structure
and the likelihood of immediate benefits.
At 675. 9d. the 20s. shares yield a
moderate 4 p.c., and are supported by
465. 3d. in net tangible assets. At that
price they provide a reasonable return,
pending the next capitalisation of
reserves.
LATEC INVESTMENTS
ON THE ROAD BACK
of Latec Investments Ltd
are growing soberly confident on the
long haul back to prosperity. They ex-
pect more signs of recovery by the end
of the current year. The group recorded
a £66,727 profit for the December,
1961, half-year. A vast loss of
£1,472,729 was suffered in 1960-61.
The present board has effected
changes “too many to enumerate”. These
have apparently brought the finance
activities to a much better position and
substantial profits should emerge from
recovery payments. Selective new busi-
ness is being undertaken, but funds are
mostly conserved for the group and to
retain liquidity.


CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on Bth March, 1950.
(ASSETS EXCEED £11,000,000.)
PER ANNUM
4YEARS
INTEREST
PERIOD
9% P.A 4 years
P.A. ... 3 years
8% P.A 2 years
7 2% P.A. .. 12 months
6% P.A. ... 6 months
FUNDS MAY BE WITHDRAWN IN A PERSONAL EMERGENCY
APPLICATIONS MUST BE MADE ON THE FORM ENCLOSED
IN THE PROSPECTUS, WHICH IS NOW AVAILABLE FROM:
AH Branches of the BANK OF N.S.W.
The Company's Offices,
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Fir., Empire House, Corner Wharf and Queen Sts.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street.
NEWCASTLE WEST: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter St.
WAGGA: 147 Bayliss Street.
Any Member of the Stock Exchange
BROKERS:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
BANKERS FOR THE ISSUE AND THE COMPANY: THE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
U A R
BURSAR
SYDNEY CHURCH OF ENGLAND
GRAMMAR SCHOOL
NORTH SYDNEY
The position of Bursar at Shore School will become ———
vacant on the retirement of the present Bursar on the 30th November next.
The duties of the position will include:
(1) that of Clerk of the School Coun-
cil and Financial and Accounting
Officer of the Council, the Bursar
having his own staff of 4 clerks;
(2) that of manager under the Head-
master of school properties and of
the following employees: grounds-
man, gardeners, carpenters, paint-
ers, cleaners, office clerks, house-
keeper and kitchen staff.
Applicants should have accountancy
qualifications and some executive ex-
perience; preferably some supervisory
experience in perhaps the building
trade or catering; and if possible ex-
perience in grounds maintenance. Age
range 30 to 50 years. The commencing
salary will exceed £3,000 per annum,
based on age and experience, and it
is hoped that the man appointed will
justify more after experience in the
School. There is a Superannuation
Scheme.
Written applications, accompanied by copies oj 111 ""
testimonials, are now invited in confidence addressed to: —
Hon. Secretary to the Council, Shore School, WORTH SYDNEY
from whom any further information may be obtained.
ONE TO BUY
HThe speculation since the mid-March
announcement of a proposed merger
of interests by Bitumen and Oil Refin-
eries (Aust.) Ltd and H. C. Sleigh Ltd
could be prolonged for another two
months.
Assuming that formation of a new
company is the most convenient vehicle
for the merger, the market has generally
worked on the basis of holders of Bitu-
men ss. ordinary shares receiving two
shares in the holding company to one
for holders of ss. Sleigh ordinary shares.
Just prior to the announcement Sleigh
shares were selling for 13s. 3d. against
Borahs 295. 3d. The news pushed the
shares immediately in opposite directions
—Sleighs up to 14s sd. and Boral down
to 28s. lOd. Today the market is around
12s. lOd. for Sleighs and 235. for Boral.
The September 1961 takeover of
Huddart Parker Industries Ltd’s collier-
ies and investments has complicated the
Boral. accounts and delayed the merger
process until after accounts have been
drawn up by Boral and Sleigh for their
mutual balance date, June 30, 1962.
At 1961 balance date, Sleigh’s capital
was £10,179,732 in ordinary shares,
£1,261,715 in preferences and
£1,242,340 in deferred A and B shares
which carried voting rights, but no divi-
dend unless ordinaries received a mini-
mum 15 p.c. Since then ordinary capital
has increased to £10,814,687.
Sleigh’s earning rate last year was
13.4 p.c. on ordinary capital, from
which it paid 12+ p.c. Interim report
stated trading was up 20 p.c. for the six
months to December 1961, but even
this improvement would hardly be suffi-
cient to cover the usual 12+ p.c. dividend
requirement on the considerably higher
average capital.
Boral’s ordinary capital has been in-
creased from £2.3 million at June 1961
to £4,027,660, and share premiums of
£3.5 million have been raised by the
Huddart Parker takeover, so that Boral
shareholders’ funds will be nudging
£llm. compared with Sleigh funds
estimated to be around £22.4m. when
the books are ruled off.
Boral directors said lower bitumen
sales in the six months to December
1961 produced a lower profit than in
the previous corresponding period, so
that we can assume the 1961 earning
rate of 35.9 p.c. (from which ordinary
shareholders received a 17+ p.c. divi-
dend) will not be equalled this year.
The recent price of around 235. 3d. for
Boral shares appears a clear case of
under-valuation, and a fine opportunity to
buy into the first Australian-controlled
fully integrated petroleum company in
the industry.


Suite 1, Sixth Floor. Temple Court
422 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Phone 67-8011
BRANCH OFFICES
Sydney: 383 George Street, 29-7865.
Adelaide: 61 Gawler Place, 7-8407.
Brisbane: 334 Queen Street, 31-1621.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
All Offices: “Options”
Write or Phone for Free Brochure
and Current Price Schedule.
FOR CALL OPTIONS
CALL STOCK OPTIONS
OIL
EXPERTS AIR THEIR HOPES
and luck were at the top of
the list of necessary factors on oil
search, according to Mr Eric Avery,
chairman of the AAO Group, who talked
to the Australian Shareholders’ Associa-
tion in Melbourne last week. Further
down he put such things as expert and
independent technology, excellence in
thinking, having a good chairman, free-
dom from fear of takeovers, and relief
from the crushing burden of share
transfer fees.
On the question of luck, Mr Avery
kept his thoughts to himself, but he
said that the high expenditures incurred
in drilling wells in Papua were out of
all proportion to the costs in AAO’s
areas. For instance, a seismic survey
taking four months cost about £50,000;
drilling a first deep well on structure in
an area would cost about £lOO,OOO, but
others much less, while shallow wells
would be less again.
Mr Kenneth Craig, chairman of Oil
Development, who also spoke, an-
nounced out of the blue that the com-
pany’s well at Anglesea (Victoria) had
that day revealed some nice smells of
wet petroliferous gas (to which the share
price responded nicely next day.)
On the other hand, Mr Webb, geo-
logist of Woodside (Lakes Entrance)
told a questioner asking about the old
shore line theory (referred to recently in
The Bulletin) that he believed in the
existence of this line and that he had
a hope rather than any great assurance
that it ran through the section of the
Surat Basin under exploration by Mid-
Eastern, for which he is also the geo-
logist.
On the possibilities in Gippsland he
said that Woodside wanted to drill down
to the Devonian rocks which were
beyond the depth of Wellington No. 1.
SPECULATOR'S DIARY
JDollowing Rule No. 5 for novice
investors (read carefully the
financial pages of the daily Press), I
noticed during the week that three
responsible people insisted that right
now was the time to buy equity shares.
Mr Staniforth Ricketson, head of the
Capel Court group, used the chairman’s
platform in one of the annexes off the
Court to say that at present there were
“excellent opportunities” for selective
and progressive investment in sound
equity stocks which promised satis-
factory income and capital gain in the
years immediately ahead.
Mr Charles Allerdice, general manager
of Australian Fixed Trusts, followed in
short order with (and I quote): “Now is
an excellent time to invest in equity
shares.” He said it was really the right
time to buy when things were obscure
and confidence was lacking. And then
a leading Sydney sharebroker placed a
firm contract stamp on these sentiments
by stating that the “much heralded”
rally in Australian equities was imminent
provided the pace of recovery was main-
tained.
Now, let me say that I, faced with
the slow but steady depreciation of my
moderate portfolio (see below), heartily
agree with these three gentlemen. After
all, selling short is a nervewracking
pastime. But what was the result of all
this gratis “buy now” advice? The
Sydney share price index lost five points
in a week, the Capel Court portfolios
presumably declined a similar amount,
the AFT’s £55 million investments
quite possibly became £54.1 million,
and the only share I wanted to fall, rose.
Rio Tinto caused me a good deal of
nervous tension when the fall on which
I sold short ran out of steam early in
the week and buyers came back in. I
hastily bought 300 at 18s. Id. and 300
at 18s. 3d. to cover my short sale,
incidentally making a handy £2O profit
to add to my cash resources and giving
a sigh of relief that no one bought in
against me.
With £229 to play with I decided to
take that persistent collective advice to
buy and found an each-way bet among
the retailers in the 20s. convertible notes
of Marcus Clark. This company’s
mausoleum-like Railway Square store
(slowly opening to the light under a
process of modernisation) is not my idea
of progressive retailing. However,
Marcus Clark’s wares are much more
widely displayed than this store would
indicate. It would in fact be the largest
mail order retailer in the country now
that it has bought the mailing lists of
two of the largest competitors in the
field.
Moreover, the group includes a large
number of country stores in NSW, a 62
per cent interest in Miller Anderson, a
leading Adelaide retailer with four
branch stores, other minor interests, and
new stores in the Sydney suburbs of
St Ives, Liverpool and West Ryde, with
another store planned in Lend Lease’s
Civic Centre development in Canberra.
Profitwise, Marcus Clark is no GMH,
but the result this year should show an
improvement. Sales for the first half
were a record, as were sales for the first
three months of the current half. Earn-
ing rate for the year to July is bound to
improve on last year’s 14.57 p.c., leaving
room for a higher dividend than the
present 9 p.c.
With this in mind, the 10s. shares at
17s. 9d. look interesting, but the notes
at 275. 6d. look a positive bargain. The
notes participate in any cash issue
before conversion into two shares for
each note in 1965. The notes actually
yield more now than the shares (5.8 p.c.
to 5.1 p.c.), while giving eventual share
entry at 13s. 9d. And when I saw that
they were as high as 325. a month ago
I could not resist. A purchase of 300
at 275. 6d. cost me £419, so it was as
well that I had already decided to sell
my 400 W. J. Manufacturing.
I have nothing against W.J., except
that the quotes were beginning to look
weak in a market that took no notice of
good advice (see above). The 12s. 6d.
at which I sold gave a magnificent profit
of £4 for five months’ patience.
The week’s transactions were:
BOUGHT
300 Marcus Clark notes at 27/6 £419
600 Rio Tinto* at 18/2 £555
*To cover short sale.
SOLD
400 W. J. Manufacturing at 12/6 £245
The week’s profit was £24. I now
have £55 in the bank and the following
portfolio:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date per rent
shares company bought share price
400 O'Donnell
Griffin 28/8/61 11/8 17/-
1,600 United Motels 20/11/61 3/9 4/3
300 Beau Monde 8/12/61 26/6 32/-
400 Auto and Gen-
eral Finance 82/62 19/9 23/9
500 Mauri Bros 16/2/62 22/9 22/6
400 Anderson Meat 2/3/62 12/- 13/6
100 Philip Morris 16/3/62 26/- 24/6
800 Goodwins 21/3/62 5/9 6/2
500 Peter Lloyd 21/3/62 5/6 6/6
500 Ready Mixed 6/4/62 17/9 16/9
25 MLC 27/4/62 £l9/10/- £24
200 Malleys 3/5/62 20/3 21/9
500 Merica 10/5/62 7/- 7/6
500 Swan Brewery 17/5/62 19/6 18/6
25 Choiseul 24/5/62 £ll £lO%
1,000 Hanimex 23/5/62 4/11 5/6
300 National Consol. 30/5/62 26/1 26/-
800 Discount Facilit. 30/5/62 5/9 5/9
600 Western Mining 13/6/62 12/9 12/3
300 Marcus Clark
notes 22/6/61 27/6 27/6


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
O'SULLIVAN
PTYITD A
ao.'iSf C
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Walson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANU FACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
WANTED TO BUY
FOR CASH
Shares, listed or unlisted,
Forestry Bonds, etc.
J. W. GRANT & CO.
549 St. Kilda Road,
Melbourne
Telephone: 51-6243
Est. 1939
LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Sixth Floor,
56 Hunter Street, Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Telephone: BW 5721.
Telegrams and Cables:
“LAGRAM,” Sydney.
CONSTABLE & COMPANY
BW 0781
Member of the
SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE
25 O’Connell Street,
SYDNEY
The Mall, The Corso, Manly
Telephone: 97-5867
John N. Robertson, Thompson
and Co.
Members of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
423 Little Collins Street
Melbourne, C.l.
Telephones: 67-6154, 67-6155
Telegrams and Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
Dejfin House,
16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building,
150 Queen St., Melbourne
67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables:
“Rosdale”, Sydney, Melbourne
or Wollongong.
A. L. NEVITT. DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W C. DRAPER
(Members o] Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street. Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH.
2 Denham Street, Phone 6089
C.S.R. CO. LTD
PESSIMISTS ANSWERED
Oelease of its second consolidated net
profit confirms the faith held by
a restricted circle of commentators that
trading was not too tough for Colonial
Sugar Refining Co. Ltd.
The popular belief was that sugar,
though basic, had no growth potential,
credit restrictions would cripple the
building materials division, and imports
competition had strangled the chemicals
plant in embryo.
Flaunting those dire predictions,
C.S.R. has produced a profit increase of
£511,944 to £3,129,679, after allocat-
ing £159,683 more for tax at
£2,245,886 and £154,465 more for
depreciation at £3,865,282 in the year
to March 31. Earning rate on un-
changed capital firmed from 12.4 to
14.8 p.c. (The parent profit in 1961 had
fallen £276,899 to £2,605,734.)
A final dividend of 5 p.c. lifts the
annual pay-out from 9 to 9i p.c., and
requires £2,010,772.
From a trough of £53 the shares
immediately leapt to £56 in a string of
sales. With a share split to 20s. units
scheduled for next month, and a one-
for-seven issue at 10s. premium on July
31, C.S.R. shares should not suffer such
neglect again.
RECORD YEAR FOR GOODYEAR
Orice stabilisation, orderly marketing,
increasing factory efficiency, and
most important, lower raw material
prices, enabled The Goodyear Tyre and
Rubber Co. (Australia) Ltd to double the
1960 profit in the 1961 calendar year.
Profit rose from £609,874 to
£1,224,337, after providing £157,393
more for tax at £653,000, and
£653,336 for depreciation, which was
approximately the same provision as in
1961. The previous best group profit
was £907,898 in 1955.
This latest performance was phenom-
enal on consideration of the substantial
drop in sales of new vehicles, occasioned
by the Government’s credit restrictions,
and the consequent fall in demand for
tyres and tubes. Goodyear, along with
other producers, had to reduce pro-
duction.
The company places more accent on
diversification—it already produces in-
dustrial hose, batteries, transmission
belts, and conveyor and elevator belts—-
and the 1961 annual report makes
special mention of the increasing accep-
tance of Neolite shoe soles.
The Australian public holds the
£300,000 preference capital, but the
whole of the ordinary capital of £1.7
million is held by The Goodyear Tire
and Rubber Co. of Akron, Ohio. After
paying the preference charge of
£24,000, the earnings represented 70.6
p.c. on ordinary capital, but again this
year no remittances were made to the
US parent. (Dividends of 40 p.c., 80
p.c., and 62.4 p.c. were paid in 1953,
1954 and 1959 respectively.)


LEADING
SHARE
PRICES
T •
Last
Div.
Div.
Earn.
Earn.
Company
Par
Sale,
18/6/62
25/6/62
Rate
Yield
Rate
Yield
Value
1961
p.c.
p.c.
p.c.
p.c.
Amalgamated Chemicals
5/
14/3
17/10
18/
121/2
3.5
21.4
5.9
A.W.A
• • • •
5/
20/41/2
20/6
20/6
14
3.4
22
5.3
Ampol
5/
11/4
11/11
ll/8xD
14
6.0
19
8.1
A.R.C
• - t ,
10/
46/3
47/
46/
15
3.3
29.7
6.5
Associated Pulp
• • • •
20/
29/3
30/
29/6
—
—
13.6
9.3
Aust. Chemicals
• •
10/
30/4V2
25/6t
23/
I2V2
5.4
21.5
9.3
A.C.I
, .
20/
72/6
67/6
66/
8-1/3
2.5
19.3
7.6
Aust. Guarantee
. .
5/
14/
12/41/21
12/2
15
6.2
20.3
8.4
Aust. Gypsum ..
5/
14/3
15/7V 2
15/3
10
3.3
15.9
4.9
A.P.M
20/
25/3
29/9
28/9
8
5.5
10
6.9
Bank N.S.W. .
* t , ,
£20
£34
£4iy 4
£40
9
4.5
12.2
6.1
Bitumen and Oil
5/
24/
23/6
23/3
171/2
3.8
32.4
7.7
Blue Metal Ind.
5/
22/7V2
22/9
20/9!
15
3.6
27.6
6.6
Bradford Cotton
5/
7/6
7/
6/6
10
7.8
11.2
8.6
British Tobacco
20/
25/
23/3
23/10xD 9
7.6
9.7
8.2
B.H.P
• •
20/
69/
58/6
56/9
6'A
2.2
15.5
5.5
Burns Philp ..
.. t .
20/
91/
£ 5/3/
£5
10
2.0
12.4
2.5
C.S.R.
£20
£59y 2
£ 53 V4
£55i/4
91/2
3.4
14.8
5.4
C.A.G.A
. .
5/
11/3
11/2
11/1
10
4.5
12.2
5.6
C.I.G.
11
20/
£5
97/3t
95/
11
2.3
25.2
5.3
Commercial Union
5/
19/3
20/3
19/3xR
61/2
1.7
18.4
4.8
Concrete Ind. .
5/
15/1 V2
14/5
13/5
10
3.7
16.6
6.2
Consolidated Zinc
* *
25/
62/6
60/f
55/
15
6.8
11.6
5.3
Cox Bros
- -
5/
7/6
7/41/2
7/7
10
6.4
11.8
7.8
Custom Credit ..
• •
5/
13/
ll/7i/ 2 f
11/8
15
6.4
19.5
8.4
Cyclone
- - » *
5/
26/
21/6
21/
10
4.8
17.7
8.4
Dalgety-N.Z. Loan
r t * t
25/
40/
37/ !
8
5.4
13.9
9.4
David Jones
- -
5/
18/9
17/7
17/4
121/2
3.5
28.7
6.8
Drug Houses ..
..
20/
69/
67/
66/
IDA
3.4
17.7
5.4
Dunlop Rubber
r •
20/
35/
39/6
39/
10
5.1
16
8.2
Elder Smith
. . t .
12/
23/9
25/6
24/6
10
4.9
12.6
6.1
Electronic “B”
. .
10/
13/3
16/3
16/3
121/2
7.7
—
—
Email
. . • •
5/
7/6
8/
7/6
10
6.6
11
7.3
E.Z. Ind.
, #
10/
12/11
12/2
11/11
10
8.3
12.4
10.4
Felt and Textiles
• •
5/
6/11
7/5
7/9
10
6.5
13.9
9.0
G. J. Coles
, ,
5/
13/6
12/9
12/7
11
4.4
14.8
5.9
Goldsbrough
• •
20/
28/6
31/6f
30/9
8
5.2
12.6
8.2
H. C. Sleigh ..
• • • •
5/
11/
12/10
12/9
121/2
4.8
13.4
5.2
Henry Jones ..
- t * t
20/
80/
85/3
79/6
10
2.5
28.6
7.2
H. G. Palmer ..
5/
15/6
17/
17/
121/2
3.7
13.5
3.9
Howard Smith ..
20/
54/
46/
45/3
10
4.4
13.6
6.0
Humes
20/
70/6
76/
72/3
14
3.8
24.6
6.2
I.A.C.
M
5/
13/4
13/7
13/3
16-2/3
6.3
20.6
7.7
I.C.I.A.N.Z.
..
20/
38/
41/3
40/6
7
3.5
9.7
4.2
J. Gadsden
T t
10/
15/3
17/9
17/6
8
4.6
10.4
6.0
Kandos Cement
• *
5/
—
22/41/2!
22/6
121/2
2.8
13.5
3.0
Kelvinator
• •
5/
18/3
19/9
19/S
15
3.9
28.6
7.5
Lend Lease
. .
5/
20/
17/9
18/
10
2.8
21.4
5.9
L. J. Hooker ..
5/
7/
5/1
5/1
1.1*
1.0
Mercantile Credits
- - tt
5/
8/8 -
8/10
8/9
10
5.7
16.6
9.5
McPhersons
• • . .
20/
47/
41/6
41.3
8-1/3
4.0
12.4
6.0
Minster ..
10/
62/ .
77/
75/S
16-2/3
2.7
28.3
5.0
Moulded Products
. .
5/
13/2
12/71/2
12/3
14
5.7
7.8
3.2
Mt. Isa Mines ..
.. f #
5/
71/6
70/
64/xD
25
2.0
62.8
4.9
Mutual Acceptance
• • • •
5/
8/10
9/10i/2t
10/
15
7.5
22.3
11.2
Myer
. . M
5/
29/
29/7
29/9
16-2/3
2.8
28.3
4.9
.National Consolidated
5/
27/
26/6
26/
20
3.8
35.3
6.8
Olympic Industries
5/
7/7
9/4
9/6
9
4.8
16.2
8.6
Peters (Vic.) ..
2/
8/6
7/3
7/4
15
4.1
18.9
5.2
Petrochemical ..
20/
26/
27/9
25/6S
6
4.7
5.9
4.6
R. M. Concrete
5/
17/41/2
17/3
16/9
12 y 2
3.7
22.9
6.8
Reid Murray ..
. . . .
5/
5/3
3/11
3/5
—
9.4
13.4
Repco ..
• • ••
5/
12/5
13/9
13/6
10
3.7
17.8
6.7
Rio Tinto
. . . .
5/
15/9
18/
18/4
10
2.7
71.7
19.5
Rothmans
• •
20/
87/6
74/6
74/
171/2
4.8
47.7
12.9
• .
5/
13/
10/7
11/
121/2
5.7
14.4
4.8
Tooth , #
• • • •
20/
60/
68/3
69/
131/2
4.0
15.9
4.4
Union Carbide
20/
80/
65/
68/
10
2.9
15.9
4.7
5/
13/8
13/3
13/2
121/2
4.8
19.7
7.5
Woolworths ..
5/
15/4
15/10
15/7
12
3.8
15.4
5.0
Wormald
5/
11/10
11/8
11/7
10
4.3
14.2
6.8
W. R. Carpenter
5/
30/
34/3
33/3
15
2.3
35.1
5.6
HiStimated on last half-year’s profit.
XR Ex Rights,
t Mid-price.
xD Ex dividend.
S Seller.
SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE INDICES
Banks,
Other
Base
All
etc.
Finance
Pastoral
Retailers
Metals
Ords.*
Industrials
December 22, 1961 .
. 137.37
541.02
182.31
389.15
604.15
299.07
31 R 74
June 18, 1962 ..
. 162.11
551.74
178.93
367.85
562.58
293.69
308 08
June 19, 1962 ..
. 162.01
546.22
177.96
365.46
556.56
292.92
307 55
June 20, 1962 ..
. 161.04
540.87
177.12
358.22
548.49
291.36
306 60
June 21, 1962 ..
. 159.80
547.25
177.07
359.01
532.31
291.15
306 40
June 22, 1962 ..
. 158.62
548.95
176.73
356.17
536.94
290 22
June 25, 1962 ..
. 157.72
541.10
174.43
347.66
518.63
285.73
30i ns
'•Peak 348.46 September 16, 1960
MELBOURNE STOCK EXCHANGE
AVERAGE YIELD ON 100
ORDINARY SHARES
■■—50 Other Stocks —Random
December 22, 1961
June 18, 1962 ..
June 19, 1962 ..
June 20, 1962 ..
June 21, 1962 ..
June 22, 1962 ..
June 25, 1962 ..
..
••
Div. Yield Earn. Yield
4.26 6.13
4.37 6.36
4.39 6.39
4.40 6.40
4.40 6.40
4.43 6.36
4.46 6.41
Div Yield Earn. Yield
5.30 7.46
5.23 I.99
5.23 1.92
5.25 1.89
5.27 2.17
5.27 2.20
5.27 2.14
SHAREMARKET SUMMARY
'FkTo less an authority than the London
Financial Times embraces Aus-
tralian ’Change behaviour in a recent
survey of the world’s bourses. “In
Sydney,” we read, “where prices are
almost exactly where they were at the
end of last December, the possibility of
a Labor victory at the next election has
been neatly balanced by the evidence of
a sustained business recovery.”
Flattering it may be to merit in-
clusion among the world’s financial
centres. Yet this rather glib summary
from such a distinguished source
simply won’t do. It certainly cannot
satisfy local investors, who are wrestling
with as big an array of doubts as any
that have struck them for more than a
year. Indeed Monday saw the local
markets sustain their biggest daily drop
since February, 1961.
However fair many of the significant
indicators have seemed to set, there’s a
prevalent hesitation in the atmosphere.
Purely local questions of business ad-
vance are also complicated by the
American picture. Not only must the
markets consider the Wall Street up-
sets. They are now seized with the very
real concern expressed in America for
the movement of the American economy
itself.
“What price growth” emerges as the
most searching problem soon to demand
an almost exclusive attention. In the
high inflated atmosphere the old prices
were all very well. Some deflation is a
little closer to the times. As for growth,
it will need to be tested, industry by
industry, company by company, in
terms of performance. Vanished are the
days of buying the index or even the
broad industrial classification.
Local investment is probably eyeing
these detailed examinations a trifle
distantly in the immediate present. For
most of the past few weeks’ reactions
have been swift and certainly not over-
considered. Most of this time of the
year’s business climate lends quietness to
the markets. Though the falls have
proved swift and sizeable, pressures and
ranges have become generally lighter.
Buyers do not look ready to partake
of the many opportunities around.
Theirs not the blame, when the over-
seas winds are also chilly and are
accompanied here by a measure of
genuine overseas selling.
At a close glance, the markets lack
any strong guidance and an early arrest
or reversal of the droop seems hardly
likely. Leaders are still suffering, un-
able to stem the decline. B.H.P. at 55/3
looks a far cry from wide overall
strength.


300088080000
BBBBBBBBBBBE
FINANCE
CORPORATION
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in South Australia under
the Companies Act 1934/52)
The Bank of Adelaide owns 40% of the
Ordinary Capital of the Company
FULLY SECURED REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
PER ANNUM 10 YEARS
PER AMRUIf SC^ARS
4 /O
PER ANNUM 2 YEARS
Stock Registers are maintained in each
Capital City. Prospectuses should be
obtained from and applications made to: —
JOINT BANKERS TO THE ISSUE
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
Members of the Stock Exchanges
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney,
Brisbane, Perth
Applications for Debenture Stock can be accepted only
on the printed form attached to the prospectus.
Q 523
MARKETING
HEADACHE FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISERS
IN NEW QUEENSLAND ACT
large national advertisers of
pharmaceutical products, patent
medicines, certain foods and vitamin
products, insecticides, veterinary sup-
plies, drugs and other goods will soon
be suffering real headaches —all because
the Queensland health authorities, play-
ing a lone hand, have introduced drastic
regulations on what letterpress will be
permitted on labels and how packages
may be designed.
For some years attempts have been
made by the Federal Health Department
to bring about uniformity between the
States and the Commonwealth regarding
pure food and poison regulations. All
departments were favorable to the idea,
but they have not been able to agree on
details. And as each State is autonomous
and looks at the problem from its own
point of view, uniformity appears a long
way off.
Apparently dissatisfied with the slow
progress made, Queensland health
authorities have “jumped the gun” and
have decided to introduce their own
laws, assuming apparently that, having
got in first, other States will have to
follow.
Two years ago, Dr Alex Johnson,
of the Commonwealth Health Depart-
ment, Canberra, devised a scheme in
which it was proposed to enforce a
censorship of all advertising of this
nature and to require all advertising
material to be submitted to Canberra for
approval. This created such a wave of
opposition from manufacturers, pharma-
ceutical distributors, the Australian
Association of National Advertisers and
the Australian Association of Advertising
Agencies that Canberra abdicated and
nothing has been heard of it in the last
six months.
Dr A. Fryberg, Director-General of
Health and Medical Services in Queens-
land, is said to be the author of that
State’s latest move. The Queensland
Parliament recently passed a new Act
governing the labelling and packaging
of all those products covered by the
Poisons and Pure Foods Acts. It is only
a short Act, but there’s a long list of
regulations under it. That’s probably
how it got through Parliament without a
violent protest.
The regulations severely restrict the
content, design and colors of labels and
packages, thus throwing upon manu-
facturers and distributors the responsibil-
ity of altering all such labels and
packages which, although acceptable in
all other parts of Australia, are contrary
to Queensland’s laws.
The effect of this upon the advertising
industry will be enormous. New packs
and labels will have to be designed and
printed especially for Queensland, and
the millions of packages, bottles and
tins at present in stock will have to
be over-labelled with the lawful word-
ing. All chemists, doctors, dentists,
veterinary surgeons and, indeed, most
shops in Queensland will be affected.
This will be a costly and difficult job,
and strong protests can be expected.
It is not generally known that because
of what was regarded as “unethical
practice”, Victoria banned the use of
the words “Dr Mackenzie’s Menthoids”
and “Dr Carter’s Little Liver Pills”; the
products are still sold, but the “Dr” had
to be dropped from the labels.
W.M.R.


COMPANY REPORT!
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT
& CO., LTD.
ANNUAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS
Held in Melbourne—THURSDAY, JUNE 21, 1962
CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS
Speaking at the Meeting, the Chairman, Mr. C. Y. SYME said:
BAL|ANCE sheet
The most significant change in the
Balance Sheet as compared with that
of a year earlier is the reduction in
amounts due by and to the Company.
Because of care in the extension of
credit and because of the low values
ruling for live stock, we have been able
to show a substantial reduction in the
amounts owing by debtors. During the
year a private debenture issue for
£260,000 was arranged. Moneys in hand
at or shortly before the balance date
enabled the investment of £500,000 in
short-term deposits. The ratio of cur-
rent assets to current liabilities and
provisions shows an improvement as
compared with that at March 31, 1961.
Merchandise stocks have been reduced
to about the level which obtained in
1960.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT:
The profit for the year showed an
increase of about £35,000.
The increased quantity of 601,000
bales of wool sold for the year was
50,000 more than that for the previous
12 months and, in conjunction with
better prices, resulted in a substantial
increase in our earnings from this
source. The carry forward into the
current year is 15,000 bales less than
that at April 1, 1961.
Although there was greater activity
during- the year, the financial results
from the live stock section of our busi-
ness were much less favorable than
those of the previous year. We handled
slightly more sheep but the average
price declined by about 11%. Cattle
numbers at 630,000 were nearly 6%
greater than those for 1961 but the
average price was over 14% lower.
Largely owing to the difficulty in ob-
taining finance, land sales were at a
much lower level.
Profits from our Stations, reflecting
increased earnings from wool and
stock, showed improvement despite an
increase in expenses.
By reason of the greater volume of
business, expenses generally were
higher than those for the year ended
March 31, 1961. We continue to seek
improvements in our methods and are
achieving some success in reducing
unit costs.
You will have observed that a further
£200,COO has been set aside from profits
towards meeting- the cost of supple-
mentary pensions for officers when they
retire. This is the final instalment of
the amount estimated in 1960 to have
been necessary to meet this cost and
further amounts will be transferred
only if future actuarial valuations
show them to be necessary.
WOOL MARKET:
The wool market has shown an im-
provement this season in that the
average price of wool is about 5%
better than for 1960/81 and a larger
quantity is expected to be sold.
Total sheep numbers in Australia re-
main at over 150 million and a record
wool production of over 5 million bales
has been forecast. Although conditions
in some areas have been dry during the
growing period, the wool produced to
date has been generally quite service-
able in standard.
Receipts of wool into Brokers’ Stores
are expected to total 4,794,000 bales
which compares with a total of 4,715,000
bales in 1960/61. A disturbing feature is
the substantial quantity of wool which
is disposed of outside the recognised
auction channels—a situation which
exists principally in Western Australia.
The average price per lb. for greasy
wool for the 11 months to the end of
May was 54.41d., whilst that for the
previous season was 52.06d The total
proceeds for the season are estimated
to be £336 million, which would be an
increase of £22 million, or almost 7%
over 1960/61.
The market opened promisingly at
the end of August, 1981, but prices
receded in mid-September when Japa-
nese inquiry was restricted. At the con-
clusion of the Series prior to Christ-
mas, values were from 71% to 10%
below opening levels. When selling re-
sumed in January, Japan operated at
full strength, resulting in a market
recovery. From that stage onwards
prices increased steadily until April
and have remained reasonably stable
since then.
Japan continues to be the dominat-
ing force in the market, the value of
her purchase being about twice that
of Britain. Athough her proportion has
dropped Britain remains as our second
best customer. Common Market coun-
tries, particularly Italy, have given very
useful support. This was most evident
from September to December whilst the
Japanese inquiry was slack. Eastern
European countries were at times keen
purchasers. Demand from Australian
mills was better and they have pur-
chased serviceable weights during the
season. Shipments of greasy wool, also
scoured and carbonised wools, to main-
land China were more than twice those
for 1980/61. There were also greater
shipments to the United States of
America.
MERGER WITH
ELDER SMITH & CO. LIMITED.
I now wish to deal at some length
with the proposed merger of the busi-
ness of our Company with that of
Elder Smith & Co. Ltd. This is far
and away the most important matter
that has come before shareholders
since the early days of our Company
and, therefore, I would like to take
this opportunity to explain to share-
holders the background for the recom-
mendation of your Board.
During recent years our management
has been making continuous and deter-
mined efforts to improve revenue and
reduce expenses. Despite these efforts,
the return received by shareholders has
been a very modest one. No doubt
there is room for a still further improv-
ement in efficiency, but so long as we
carry on our business on traditional
lines there is little justification for
any expectation that our earnings will
increase dramatically or that our ex-
penses will do otherwise than increase.
The basic problem is that this Com-
pany and its competitors are an in-
tegral part of an industry which has
to struggle for its existence in unshelter-
ed world markets. Our fortunes depend
on the prosperity of the Australian
primary producer, and in recent times
the terms of world trade have turned
against him. We hope that this posi-
tion will change for the better, but it
is not easy to see how and when it
will happen. There is much controversy
over what w'ould be the effect of the
United Kingdom joining the European
Common Market, but even the strong-
est supporters of that course do not
suggest that it will in the short
term improve the position of Aus-
tralian primary products.
Therefore, the present position and
future prospects make it essential for
the man oh the land to conduct his
industry with the greatest efficiency,
and that is equally true of companies
such as ours, which are an essential
part of that industry. So far as we are
concerned, a quite radical rationalisa-
tion of our activities is needed if we
are to give our clients better service
and our shareholders a more adequate
return. Such a rationalisation cannot
be effected by our Company acting
alone. It was with these thoughts in
mind that your Directors joined in
discussions with Elder Smith & Co.
Limited in regard to the possibility
of a merger between the two Com-
panies. The Boards of both Companies
are satisfied that a merger of this
nature is an essential prerequisite to
the really effective operation of our
two businesses. The problem of inte-
grating the two businesses will not be
an easy one, and quick results cannot
be looked for. But the Directors of
both Companies are confident that in
the long run integration will mean
the better use and deployment of staff,
the best possible utilisation cf fixed
assets and the elimination of many
causes of waste. Some of the fixed
assets of both Companies will become
redundant and their realisation will
provide funds for more profitable use.
In order to pave the way for the
(Continued on next page.)


merger, both Companies have join-
ed together to form a Company called
Elder Smith Goldsbrough Mort Ltd.
That Company has made an offer to
exchange its shares for the existing
shares in our Company and in
Elder Smith & Co. Limited. The
new Company is offering two fully
paid shares of 10/ each for each
£1 of stock in our company, and eight
fully paid shares of 10/ each for each
five shares paid to 12/ each in Elder
Smith & Co. Limited.
This offer is made on the basis that
60% of the shares of the new Company
should be offered to Elder’s share-
holders and 40% to Goldsbrough’s
shareholders. The fixing of the 60%-
40% proportion was determined only
after careful investigation and con-
sideration. It is based on earning capa-
city and not on asset value. A basis
of asset value was discarded because
of the difficulty of determining a fair
value for many of the fixed assets of
both Companies and because, in the
case of the merger of two going con-
cerns, earnings basis was considered
to be more relevant. In each case,
many of the fixed assets are of a
special nature, such as wool and pro-
duce stores, sale yards and country
offices and residences. Assets of this
nature are costly enough to acquire
but their realisable value is quite an-
other matter. Their value to either
of us as a going concern is really best
determined by reference to what we
can earn by their use. I would like to
add that we have no reason to believe
that an asset value basis would have
produced a materially different result.
It was, therefore, agreed that the
proportion of the new Company’s shares
which should go to each group of
shareholders should be determined on
the basis of relative earning capacity.
Figures showing the past profits of the
two Companies were exchanged and
adjustments were made to them to
ensure that the figures were properly
comparable. In the light of these ad-
justed figures the Boards of the two
Companies agreed that 60% of the new
Company’s shares should go to Elder’s
shareholders and 40% to Goldsbrough’s
shareholders. As these proportions
were arrived at on the basis of figures
not available to shareholders, an in-
dependent firm of accountants,
Messrs. Fuller, King & Co., were ask-
ed to examine the figures and to ex-
press their opinion on them. They have
confirmed the fairness of the 60%-40%
arrangement.
The Directors have accepted the new
Company’s offer as regards their own
stock and strongly recommend all
shareholders to follow the same course.
Delays in bringing the matter to a
conclusion are most undesirable from
a business point of view and if you
have not already done so, we urge you
to give the offer your immediate at-
tention.
During the past year our Staff have
given very good service. To them the
proposed merger is of even more
significance than it is to shareholders.
I am pleased to say that they have
shown their appreciation of the need
for the merger and we are confident
of their full co-operation.
THE COMING TELEVISION RACE
\ fascinating series of hearings, with
tremendous social import, should
ensue when the Australian Broadcasting
Control Board decides to examine con-
tenders for the third commercial tele-
vision licence in Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane and Adelaide. Sydney and Mel-
bourne applications have already closed
(on June 15), while the lists are open
in Brisbane and Adelaide until July 27.
Controversies surrounding the econ-
omic and cultural impact of TV have
certainly not diminished since Australian
transmissions first started towards the
end of 1956. It might well be asserted
that the argument is world-wide. Few
firm principles can be regarded as es-
tablished and parties interested in the
latest batch of local permits will traverse
much thorny ground when putting their
respective cases.
In Britain, which also operates a com-
bination of national and independent
stations, a detached commission has
been examining the grounds and types of
new licences. Its findings, to be em-
bodied in the Pilkington Report, are ex-
pected to add a good deal of fire to the
private versus public debate.
Our own control board believes these
kinds of questions may be most suitably
thrashed out when the time arrives to
allocate licences. Though the forthcom-
ing hearings directly concern commercial
interests only, all the old issues are likely
to be raised. The actual structure of in-
dividual commercial networks is still a
moderately fluid topic, bound up with
the vexed matter of ownership concen-
tration.
The earlier commercial pattern here
brought together the large Press and
radio groups organisations thoroughly
versed in general methods of mass com-
munication. As well, of cours , they
were able to call on the huge establish-
ment capital required.
What distinguishes the present appli-
cations is the very wide diversity of in-
terests involved. This perhaps reflects
earlier criticism of existing licence hold-
ers. Yet it must also signify recognition
of the extensive effect of TV on all
sectors of the populaten and the need
for it to represent all social influences,
commercial and cultural alike.
In this necessarily brief summary, it
is not possible to examine each separate
applicant, but their namej and composi-
tion have received frequent currency.
Suffice to mention some of the giants
assembled: M.L.C. Assurance, W. D.
and H. O. Wills (Aust.), E.M.I. (Aust.),
Ampol Petroleum, H. G. Palmer, As-
sociated Rural, A.W.A., Email, Bank of
NSW, C.S.R., Electronic Industries,
Burns Philp, Waltons, Woolworths, W.
R. Carpenter, Queensland Insurance,
One especial hindrance may be exer-
cising both certain entrants and the
board itself. Four companies Elec-
tronic Industries, Email, A.W.A. and
Mirror Newspapers once held in-
terests in the existing commercial set-
up. They have sold out to the tune of
large capital profits. Such behavior will
probably “be taken into consideration.”
Sydney tipsters are showing a fond-
ness for the chances of Sydney Television
Broadcasting Corporation Ltd and Tele-
vision Era (Sydney) Ltd. The first is
plotting a 55 per cent public sharehold-
ing and is built around a directorate in-
cluding Sir James Kirby, Sir Daniel
McVey, Norman B. Rydge, Hon. T. G.
Murray, Ernest Turnbull, John O'Neill.
R. J. Webster, O. D. A. Oberg and Theo
Kelly.
Television Era claims the support of
the broking house of Patrick and Co.
Ownership at present resits with Burns
Philp, Waltons, W. R. Carpenter, Dick-
son Primer, Australian General Insur-
ance, Bankers and Traders Insurance,
C.A.G.A., Davis Gelatine. Winchcombe
Carson, Traders’ Prudent Insurance,
Dymocks, Queensland Insurance, Mer-
cantile Mutual Insurance, Repco, Tele-
surance Brokers, Jacoby Mitchell, Eric
Anderson, J. E. Hallstrom, Concrete In-
dustries, and Sir Edward Hallstrom a
distinguished lot, to say the least.
Melbourne pins a lot of faith on Edu-
cational and Cultural Television Pty Ltd,
a collection of Victorian educational
groups. Community Television Ltd, des-
pite the Electronic Industries component
and the device of different classes of
shares, seems also highly favored.
It is perhaps too soon to speculate
upon the wider economic possibilities
raised by the new stations. The television
manufacturing industry has shown con-
siderable improvement over recent
months, with output clearly rising and
consumers growing more interested in
the latest models. Of course the industry
must expect much of its progress to
derive from country extensions, as dis-
tinct from city developments.
The changing programme pattern
made probable by additional stations will
bear careful watching. There is wide talk
about growing saturation of advertising
space, for instance, to the detriment of
feature time. Such problems, and others
like the fate of the Australian element
in programme make-up. will doubtless
get prolonged attention from the control
board.


AIR INDUSTRY SURVEY
THE WORLD SCENE
ON THE EVE OF SUPERSONIC TRAVEL
By Eugene Bajkowski
HPhe basic problem facing the world’s
-*• aviation industry on the eve of the
supersonic age is the fact that, despite
its continuous rapid growth and spec-
tacular technological development, it is
a chronically low profit earner. The
pace of technological advancement has
greatly outrun the rate of growth of its
earning potential at least under the
existing economic and political condi-
tions.
The international air transport busi-
ness operates in conditions of consider-
able over-supply, not unlike the oil in-
dustry, the sugar industry and import-
ant sections of the chemical industry.
This means constantly intensifying com-
petition, extensive although often
camouflaged price reductions, some-
times verging on cut-throat practices, a
growing trend towards economy-class
and away from first-class air travel,
rising popularity of cheaper group travel
and fierce rivalry for the bread-and-
butter air routes and frequencies, par-
ticularly over the Atlantic.
The average profit rate of the 92
international airlines federated in the In-
ternational Air Transport Association
(lATA) is less that one p.c. a year.
Operating revenues of airlines affiliated
with lATA including Poland’s PLL-
LOT and Czechoslovakia’s CSAL, but
excluding the USSR’s Aeroflot and all
other Soviet bloc air carriers totalled
U 555,505,000,000 in 1960, against ex-
penditures of U 555,448,000,000.
If the colossal depreciation, obsoles-
cence, maintenance, re-equipment and
research costs and the huge expenditure
on ground facilities and expert, and
relatively highly paid, staff is taken into
account any layman will agree that the
industry’s position is precarious.
SOVEREIGNTY SYMBOL
/Aperating an international airline has
become a matter of national politi-
cal prestige, particularly for the small
or newly independent nations. No sooner
does a new African territory advance to
sovereignty, and add its colors to the long
row of flags fluttering outside the UN
headquarters in New York, than it sets
up its own international airline and tries
to elbow its ■ ay into the crowded skies,
despite the prohibitive capital and
operating costs. This is often done with
full realisation that there can be no
hope of a normal commercial profit.
One cannot argue against any nation’s,
however small or new, right to have
its own international airline. This has
become an indispensable international
sovereignty symbol. But it is a fact that
these smaller airlines, which usually
cannot afford more modern and econ-
omically efficient aircraft, are an im-
portant factor in lowering the overall
earning rate of other lATA members.
US MERGER
npHERE is a distinct natural tendency to
A monopoly on several major inter-
national air routes, and this is aggra-
vated by the complexities of bargaining
over landing rights. The impending global
merger between two American g ; ants
Pan American World Airways and its
only US rival on the lucrative Atlantic
run, Trans World Airlines Inc. is an
indication of this trend.
This merger may still be challenged
in the US on constitutional grounds as
violating the Sherman Antitrust Act;
the US airlines’ powerful international
competitors hope it will be. But Pan
American and TWA executives argue
that only a single American airline can
hope to withstand the onslaught of
BOAC, Air France, KLM, Alitalia, etc.
US companies also contend that their
rivals are state-owned and state-operated.
Another factor worrying American
operators is the possibility of the Soviet
Aeroflot’s intrusion into Latin America,
traditionally an American preserve. And
already negotiations are under way
between Brazil and the USSR to give
Aeroflot landing rights on a route to Rio
de Janeiro through Africa.
FARES STILL TOO HIGH
international aviation industry also
suffers from the basic economic
problems of a politically divided world.
The rapid development of the European
Economic Community may bring in an
additional competitive complication, at
least in the next ten years or so.
And air travel is still far tc expensive
for a very large proportion of the free
world’s population. As national incomes
and living standards in the economically
underdeveloped countries gradually rise
the commercial air traffic potential will
increase. This will gradually increase the
passenger and air freight potential; and
a wider market and continuous technolo-
gical progress should allow economic
operation at lower fares. But no radical
immediate improvement can be expected
and surface travel still presents a major
competitive challenge. Nor are there any
great possibilities for expansion beyond
the boundaries of the free world, al-
though some further sectional arrange-
ments may be expected with the Soviet
bloc. In the economically advanced
nations of the free world the air travel
market is pretty saturated, i ' least at
existing fare levels. Further develop-
ments will probably go in the direction of
greatly increased use of charter flights,
more bulk carrying on busier routes or
over areas where surface transport is
uneconomical, and greater operational
efficiency.
A major problem is the need to main-
tain large fleets for peak season traffic.
In the off periods it is often difficult
to employ the temporarily surplus air-
craft profitably.
SUPERSONIC AIRCRAFT
/Conflicting views exist on the intro-
duction of supersonic aircraft. Some
experts argue that airlines which will be
the first to introduce supersonic aircraft
will soon face bankruptcy, because the
present volume of business hardly justi-
fies even a full conversion to subsonic
jets.
At lATA’s last general meeting in
Sydney some strong opinions were voiced
arguing that conversion to supersonic
aircraft in the near future will be a
concession to political pressures and
prestige considerations and well beyond
the capital resources of private enter-
prise. It was said that if governments
will press the airlines into buying super-
sonic planes they will have to provide
the funds for re-equipment and assume
almost full responsibility for financing
ground installations.
Another view is that the airlines
which will be the first off the mark with
supersonics will be well ahead in the
race to capture a major proportion of the
world market, and that the others will
be forced to follow suit at a crucial
disadvantage in any case. The solu-
tion suggested is to drastically reduce
fares and concentrate on volume.
No doubt the prestige advantage of
being first in the supersonic travel age
will be very considerable; and on some
runs for instance over the Atlantic
■ —supersonic aircraft could prove profit-
able. But paying loads cannot be ex-
pected to rise overnight and the strain
the switch to supersonic aircraft will
impose on the industry as a whole will
be truly enormous.


:pp
'•••' :7 at v Mg
,/ ** . g
o f
XyX
~:p
:,PP
v <
&#£?:?
Shown above: Scale model oj new Boeing 127 short-to-medium range jetliner
Boeing 727 test program to cost £13,400,000
Requiring 865,000 man-hours, the test program for the
new Boeing 727 will include the manufacture of two
complete airframes solely for structural test purposes.
The first airframe will be tested to destruction to prove
its structural integrity and to determine the ultimate
limits of its strength. The second will undergo 16 months
of load tests simulating the repeated flight, maneuver,
pressurization and landing loads a 727 would encounter
in approximately 20 years of airline service.
The 727 systems—from cockpit to flight surfaces and
including associated hydraulic systems—will undergo
complete testing and evaluation in a full-scale mockup.
Meantime, some 4,500 hours of wind tunnel test time,
and 250 flight hours on the 707 prototype applicable to
the 727, have already been carried out. In addition, 727
components and systems common to the 707 and 720
have been “tested” in more than a million hours of Boeing
jetliner operations.
Boeing 727 s will bring airlines the unique benefits of
design, test and manufacture by the world’s most
experienced builder of jetliners. So far, 127 Boeing
7275, America’s first short-to-medium range jetliner,
have been ordered by American Airlines, Eastern Air
Lines, Lufthansa German Airlines, Trans World Airlines,
and United Air Lines. Deliveries will begin late next year.


QANTAS AIRWAYS
EXPERT AID TO EXPORTERS
By C. O. TURNER
Chief Executive and General Manager, Qantas
Qantas is making every effort to help
the Australian drive for exports.
Because of the nation’s trend to be
mainly an importing country there has
been a tendency by everyone to dis-
regard the need to seek new markets
wherever possible. But now, the situa-
tion is changing as the Common Market
prospects send Australian businessmen
looking for business in much larger
numbers. On our Pacific services, for
instance, we are now carrying more
Australians than Americans, and on the
Far East route to Japan more and more
Australian businessmen are “on the
track” looking for buyers.
In selling Qantas service to business-
men we are making the point that ten
minutes of face-to-face talk by executives
across the table is far better than reams
of correspondence, and that the network
of air services from Australia today is so
extensive that it provides a very full
coverage of the world’s markets. On
the major routes there are daily services
which can put an exporter in the heart
of the main business centres in a matter
of hours.
Qantas can help in many ways other
than by carrying the businessman and
his products from A to B. We have a
chain of offices in many of the world’s
business capitals and these are always
available as a working base for travelling
businessmen. Our staff will always help
with appointments and can do a lot to
assist the passenger to meet the right
people. In many of our main offices
overseas we have set up “Corroboree
Rooms” and these are available for trade
displays, for showing films to trade
groups, for business receptions and so
on.
As well as this, some of our Qantas
managers overseas are representatives of
the Department of Trade and they keep
a finger very closely on the pulse of
business in their area and feed back in-
formation to the Department which, in
turn, circulates it to manufacturers and
others.
Many of these activities have been
under way for some years, but recently
Qantas reorganised the whole cargo set-
up to go along with the current export
drive. At Sydney airport we built a
large cargo terminal where everything
can be done under the one roof and
where the emphasis is on service to the
exporters and importers. There are cold
storage rooms, warm rooms and animal
pens. There is a Customs Clearing Unit
which wipes out the old bugbear of
exporters having to go to several different
places to get their goods moving. The
whole thing is designed for fast handling.
But this export service, efficient
though we believe it is, does not start at
the airport. It starts with our Export
Consultant Section.
This is the area of activity where
Qantas feels it can be really helpful in
the search for new markets. We invite
manufacturers to come to us so that we
can jointly study their export problems.
Together we study the sequence from
manufacture to retail delivery as a
whole.
We can provide him with an analysis
of the movement of his goods from
despatch to arrival, a study of his
packaging with suggestions for lighter
and more economical handling, advice on
alternate routings to speed up the con-
signments, advice on taxation and in-
surance concessions, world markets,
quarantine, customs and import regula-
tions.
Practically all commodities now
move in some degree over the
Qantas world network. The main items
are textiles and clothing, spare parts,
electrical and office machinery, chemi-
cals and pharmaceuticals, printed matter
and primary products such as eggs, fruit,
vegetables and meat. A great deal of
bulky and heavy machinery can be
partly dismantled for airfreight and
quickly reassembled on delivery.
Recently there was an urgent call for
radio telephone equipment to link some
islands near Greece with the mainland
as an essential development of the local
tourist industry. With the tourist season
imminent, time was all-important and an
Australian firm won the contract by
quoting on the basis of delivery by air.
The equipment weighed about li tons
in all and was shipped in pieces of about
500 lbs. An added merit of air freight
for such items as this is the speed with
which spares can be flown in. After-
sales service is going to be very import-
ant if we are to maintain the new
markets we open up.
When applied to export cargo, the
movement of goods in a continuous flow
of small consignments rather than a few
very big consignments can eliminate
warehouse costs at both ends and turn
the exporter’s pound over much more
quickly and make it work harder for
him.
The lazy pound”—the pound sitting
at dockside or in a warehouse—is a
big factor in export-costing, and air
cargo can cut these costs.
★ ★ ★
SHREWD TIMING
Qantas, Australia’s Government-owned
international airline, has to its
credit a very successful economic per-
formance. Despite intense, often cut-
throat, competition and Australia’s
relatively limited population and capital
resources, Qantas has consistently re-
turned a profit since the early 1920s.
This is a feat which only a few inter-
national airlines can match.
The original company, Queensland
and Northern Territory Aerial Services
Ltd, was formed on November 16, 1920,
with a paid capital of £6037 —which
has since swelled to an issued share
capital of £14,800,000 at March 31,
1961, the date of the last annual report.
The encouraging growth of Qantas
in the post-war years is in a large
measure due to its astute and dynamic
management and its severely practical
approach to the harsh realities of intense
competition. This has been supported
by imaginative but realistic planning and
a good assessment of the company’s
capital requirements and growth and
profit potential—a very important factor
in the existing conditions of oversupply
in the international air industry.
Shrewd selection of new aircraft and
shrewd timing have been characteristic
of Qantas. It was the first airline oper-
ating in the Pacific area to introduce the
Boeing 707 jets, with the idea of
changing their engines at a later date.
Qantas is now converting its Boeings
707 to the new fan type, which will
fully modernise them. Earlier, Qantas
was one of the first airlines to use
Constellations and then Super-Constella-
tions in the earlier post-war years.
expenditure during 15 months
to March 31, 1961, amounted to
£8,123,644 (including £5,602,869 on
aircraft and spare parts and £1,024,293
on buildings and hangars). Aircraft pur-
chased in the United States were financed
by loans from American companies—
which first had to be convinced that sell-
ing to Qantas on terms was a sound
commercial proposition. Interest
charges appeared at £952,942 in the
last annual report (for fifteen months
to March 31, 1961). During that time
Qantas carried 269,309 passengers and
logged 922,689,199 passenger miles,
34,350,142 air cargo ton miles and
12,801,506 air mail ton miles, earning
a gross revenue of £43,510,121. The
load factor averaged out at 53 p.c.
Gross salaries and wages to some 6823
staff members cost £12,295,292, fuel
and oil £4,999,35 and obsolescence and
depreciation charges amounted to
£3,830,496.


is the feelin;
yOU get
ou
with Qantas
::v»fcw,.
HI
■■•<-■■•••
/ /
r t
mmm
mm
m
%mm
*mwwa
m
m
m
tt&m
tm
ttW.
m-
mmmmm
fsgl
jrtftiiffiii
a»I
In the spacious, air-conditioned cabin on every Qantas
flight there is a pleasant, relaxed mood. It’s a good
feeling, and it’s helped along by the easy confidence of
the highly trained, knowledgeable Qantas crew.
This confidence in themselves is a real confidence, born
of the highest standards of training and skill anywhere
in the airline industry. Thus, every member of the crew
is right on top of his job. And his assurance is enhanced
by knowing the excellence and superiority of the aircraft;
the Qantas 707 V-Jet is the world’s fastest, most
thoroughly flight-tested commercial aircraft. And the
most thoroughly serviced, too!
Maintenance of the giant jets of Qantas is in the depend-
able hands of skilled engineers and ground staff whose
aptitude and qualifications are unexcelled in the airline
industry.
This feeling of confidence extends right through all levels
of the airline operation . . . from engineer to air crew to
passenger. And the diversity of skills merges to form one
great pattern of inter-related activity that goes to make
the Qantas of today. And, after 41 years of dependable
service, Qantas is today a world-wide organisation of over
6,500 knowledgeable people, each contributing to the
feeling of real confidence that inspires those who fly
Qantas and those who fly with Qantas.
41 YEARS OF DEPENDABLE SERVICE
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED, in association with Air India, 8.0.A.C., S.A.A. and TEAL,
Q 11.105.62


AUSTRALIA'S PUBLIC AIRLINE COMPANIES
ANSETT TRANSPORT
INDUSTRIES LTD
HThe airline business which controls
£35 million of assets, and last year
carried almost 1.5 million paying
passengers, was founded by Mr R. M.
Ansett in a single run from Hamilton
to Melbourne in 1935. Perhaps this
rapid expansion has exceeded even his
wildest dreams.
At last count, Ansett-A.N.A.’s fleet
consisted of three Electras, ten Viscounts,
two DC 6 Bs, three DC 4s, seven
Fokkers, 32 DC 3s, five Convair 4405,
a Bristol Freighter, two Sandringham
Flying Boats, one Catalina Amphibian,
four helicopters, five Cessnas, two
Piaggios and three Norseman planes,
plus 145 passenger vehicles, cars and
freight vehicles.
The Pioneer road passenger services
started by Ansett brought a touring
holiday within the reach of every man.
Hotels were purchased and run by
Ansett to give the necessary standard
of service, and later ventures were made
into motels and the establishment of
holiday resorts.
The Ansett freight express service last
year road-freighted almost 100,000 short
tons of goods throughout Australia. A
special development was the co-ordina-
tion of road and rail services between
Adelaide and Perth. At the last annual
meeting in December, Mr Ansett told
shareholders that future expansion
would be concentrated more in manu-
facturing, road and express freight
sections than in airline activities.
The following month he proceeded
to bid for Antill Ranger (Holdings) Ltd,
road transport carrier, but was outdone
by Mayne Nickless Ltd. Several other
small road transport businesses have,
however, been added to the Ansett group
in the current year.
The manufacturing sections of the
group are engaged in making aviation
instruments, buses, aircraft seats, desks,
boats, etc.
A nsett’s acquisitiveness in the airlines
business has made him the villain
of a “cause celebre” on several
occasions. In 1957 operations of Aus-
tralian National Airways Pty Ltd were
merged, and the combined business run
as Ansett-A.N.A. Later in the year
Butler Air Transport reluctantly joined
the network, and was renamed Airlines
of N.S.W. In 1959 a smart coup by the
wily chairman added Guinea Holdings
Ltd’s airline (with five aircraft) to the
organisation at no capital cost. In a
share and cash deal costing Ansett
approximately £1 million, Guinea’s
airline was acquired as a going con-
cern, plus its investment portfolio which
was later sold (mainly to the A.M.P.
Society) for a capital profit of about
£450,000.
In 1961 Mandated Airlines Ltd of
New Guinea and Papua was purchased
allowing extension of mainland opera-
tions into more distant parts of the
Territory. As a result of the takeover
W. R. Carpenter Holdings Ltd now
hold 2,000,000 ss. shares in Ansett.
In the year to July 1, 1961, 65 p.c.
of Ansett’s £29 million revenue came
from the airline activities. Since 1955
the number of airports serviced has
increased from 12 to 186, the route
mileage from 4.3 m. miles to 22.6 m.
miles, and the network from 6,000 to
33,000 miles.
The net profit has grown from
£194,000 to £1 million in those seven
years. But although the shareholder has
received a steady 10 p.c. dividend for
the last six years, the premium on the
shares has only been sufficient to allow
occasional par issues of shares and con-
vertible notes, and in the past 6 months
the ss. shares have idled within 9d.
above par and a penny or two below
par.
MacROBERTSON MILLER
■jV/IACROBERTSON MILLER AIRLINES LTD
emerged in 1955 from the two
main West Australian airline companies,
Macßobertson-Miller Aviation Co. Pty
Ltd and Airlines (WA) Ltd.
The company operates all intrastate
airmail services in Western Australia
and the Northern Territory, under a
contract with the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment, as well as the interstate service
from Perth to Darwin.
The fleet comprises six DC-3 aircraft,
a Dove, an Anson and a Fokker
Friendship. The company established
new records in three major divisions in
1960-61 —carrying 55,656 passengers,
7,152,778 lbs. of cargo and 362,176 lbs.
of mail.
MMA has a substantial interest in
Air Beef Pty Ltd, operating in the
Glenroy-Derby District and the Kimber-
leys. It also provides packaged holiday
tours to the North and the Centre.
Shareholders have received a 74 p.c.
dividend each year since 1957, and their
10s. shares have a tangible asset back-
ing of 12s. 6d. The shares are quoted
on Melbourne and Perth exchanges.
EAST-WEST AIRLINES LTD
gooN after the end of the last war a
group of graziers and country
businessmen began thinking of a
country airline operated from a country
base to serve the people of rural Aus-
tralia. In June, 1949, this idea emerged
as East-West Airlines, which began a
tri-weekly flight by Avro-Anson between
Tamworth and Sydney.
The line now has a staff of 160 (of
whom 130 are based in Tamworth), and
a fleet of four DC-3s and one prop-jet
Fokker Friendship, operating over a
6000-mile network in NSW and
Southern Queensland.
East-West was the first company in
Australia to establish crop-dusting and
crop-spraying. Its planes have also been
used for rain-making experiments.
Two associated interests are New
England Instrument Co. Pty Ltd, which
is approved by the Department of Civil
Aviation to repair aircraft and auto-
motive instruments, and Pacific and
Western Aviation Ltd which runs East-
West’s special projects division, cloud-
seeding and high - altitude mapping.
East-West also runs one of the biggest
country travel centres in Australia.
East-West had a financial struggle
until 1953, when it finally broke through
to profitability, and only in one year
since (1956) has it failed to make a
profit. But dividend was omitted last
year.
The company is a public one, but its
shares are not listed. Paid capital of
£165,498 consists of ordinary, “B”
ordinary and preference shares. In
May, 1960, Ansett Transport Industries
Ltd thought these £ 1 shares were
worth 565. cash or 645. in a share
exchange. But to East-West share-
holders, independence meant more.
JAPAN
OVER THE NORTH POLE
AI/hile two main domestic airlines
together with various helicopter and
monorail companies seek to cope with
Japan’s transport problems, Japan’s
growing activities on international
routes are handled by Japan Air Lines.
From its first domestic flights in 1951,
JAL has been encouraged by the fast
growth of the Japanese economy to
expand its traffic to five domestic and
10 international routes, carrying over
800,000 passengers last year.
Overseas routes (from Tokyo and
Osaka) operate to South-east Asia, the
USA, and Europe. These include jet
services introduced last June on flights
to Europe via the North Pole, and now
via Asia also. As JAL strengthens its
links with Japan’s major trading partners,
it hopes to include Australia on its
schedules within the next few years.
As a major step in aircraft manufacture
earlier this year Japan announced the
production of her first turbojet engine.
H.G.


iK
K&&& if t 4 ’l
66
Alitalia no slow boat!
now you can fly to
SINGAPORE, BANGKOK,
HONG KONG & TOKYO
at no extra ftight cost! on
your way to Rome & Europe"
Yes, it*s almost unbelievable, but true! Now you can
Jet to Europe . . . and at the same time stop off at
the four most fascinating cities of the Orient . . .
Singapore, Bangkok, Hong Kong and Tokyo ... at
no extra flight cost! What an opportunity to visit
a shopper’s paradise ... to see these world-famous
tourist centres.
It’s another superb service by Alitalia Airlines . . .
the sophisticated experienced international airline.
Flights leave Sydney every Friday at 11 a.m. Rolls
Royce Super DC-8 Jets, naturally. Ask your travel
agent now about this exciting way to see the fabulous
Orient on your way to Europe. He has all the details.
Why travel the old way to Europe? Alitalia is the new
way to fly. The famous international airline world
experienced over 15 years to 42 countries. Sophisti-
cated service, superb cuisine. Super DC-8 Rolls Royce
Jets. Million-mile pilots. Cocktail lounge and art
gallery. Only 30 hours from Sydney to Rome with
immediate connections to London by the fantastic new
Caravelle Jets.
Alitalia is in all of Italy and goes everywhere in the world.
LONDON
TOKYO
NEW YORK
ROME
4
BOMBAY
BUENOS
AIRES
JOHANNESBURG
SYDNEY"
AIRLINES
"THE WINGED ARROW SERVICE TO 42 COUNTRIES "
BOOKINGS: ALL TRAVEL AGENTS, TAA GENERAL SALES AGENTS AND ALITALIA. SYDNEY: 177 ELIZABETH STREET, PHONE 61-8913.
MELBOURNE: PEARL ASSURANCE BLDG., 143 QUEEN STREET, PHONE 67-6865-6. BRISBANE: 183 EDWARD STREET, PHONE 31-2196.


FLY HIGH WITH
BENDIXTEC
at the COMBINED SERVICES DISPLAY
Anthony Hordern's Sydney Store, July 7 to 31.
Aircraft Products on show include:—
® DOPPLER • WEATHER RADAR
• PHI AUTOMATIC NAVIGATOR
• AUTOMATIC PILOTS, etc.
BENDIX-TECNICO
ROCKDALE, N.S.W.
Aeronautical and Scientific Engineers
PTY.
LTD.
FRANCE
AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURERS WOO AUSTRALIA
By LUCIEN BOZ
A fter the Second World War, when
the French aircraft industry was
destroyed as a result of hostilities, French
aeronautical manufacturers reconstruct-
ed, within a very few years, their fac-
tories and modernised their equipment.
With new and daring design concepts,
French aircraft are not only advanced
products in their class, but are also
ahead of planes produced by many of
the world’s other great aeronautical
manufacturing countries.
*u t . -u *• .
French aircraft companies understood
how useless it would be to compete with
each other on foreign markets; conse-
quently, they have rationalised the in-
dustry from top to bottom.
. , .
As soon as they were sufficiently
organised, French aircraft manufactur-
ers set out to sell their products to
Australia A first significant move was
ma ein arc - pul 1956 when taking
a van a^ e ° b’S French Exhibition
a e oya aster Show, an aviation
demonstration mission headed by the dy-
■ f eSl eat " anaging Director of
Sud-Aviation M Georges Hereil, visited
Sydney and Melbourne with two Nor-
atlas transport planes, one Djinn jet-
powered helicopter, and the Broussard,
aa a f ncu tLlra anc * crop-sprayer plane
an 6 f° reruni l er of the Super-Broussard).
ese efforts were in vain; not a
sing e order was received.
The first breakthrough came after
highly placed representatives of the
RAAF and the Australian Govern-
ment visited USA, the UK and Europe,
in order to choose a new and powerful
jet fighter to replace the obsolete Super
Sabres. After thorough investigation,
their choice was the Mirage 111 c.
In March this year, a sales mission
from Nord-Aviation came here to dis-
cuss with Australian domestic airlines the
possibility of selling to them the Super-
Broussard MH 262, a medium range,
full y pressurised aircraft with capacity
or 26-29 passengers. The Super-Brous-
sard is also readily adaptable to short-
range freighting.
The mission met directors of T.A.A.-
A„se«-A N.A East West Airline, and
als ° Q™ as who run the Fiji Airlines
and , would be hbel J j uch a
aircraft tor this island rou e,
Tbe C.Si-F (Compagnie de Tele-
-BraPhla Sans Fll > also scored a auc J cess
with the contract for equipping Sydney
and Adelaide civil airports with radar;
this equ ip me nt will be installed within
three months<
The M orane-Saulnier Rallye light air-
craft is now being assembled and sold
j n Australia by De Havilland Australia,
-phis is a follow-up of the visit here last
year of M Serge Sa ulnier.
Other French aircraft in line for sales
to Austra i ia are the Spirale 111 military
cargo plane of Dassault and the Alouette
n and Alouette 111 helicopters produced
by Sud-Aviation. Already, 810 of the
Alouette 111 have been ordered in France
and by overseas countries.
From May 1 to May 8 this year, the
Caravelle “Horizon” twin-jet passenger
aircraft, powered by General Electric jet
engines, visited Australia. On board was
a mission of 24, comprising sales direc-
tors, chief test pilots, engineers, tech-
nicians and mechanics from Sud-Avia-
tion, headed by M. Georges Hereil,
President and Managing Director of this
company.
The Caravelle made demonstration
flights in Melbourne, Sydney and Can-
berra for the benefit of T.A.A., Ansett-
A.N.A., the Department of Civil Avia-
tion, representatives of the Air Ministry,
high Government officials and news-
papermen. Returning to Paris, M. Hereil
said that as a result of this extensive
tour, he is confident of the sale of 40
Caravelles. No specific nations were
mentioned as purchasers, but it is under-
stood that Australia was included in this
figure.
SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
THE WALLABY SERVICE
African Airways, which oper-
ate the fortnightly DC-7B service
from Johannesburg to Perth via Mauri-
tius and the Cocos Islands, in association
with Qantas, are technically a department
of the South African Railways and
Harbors Administration, which took over
the assets and business of Union Airways
and South West African Airways on
February 1, 1934. At that time the two
concerns had a combined fleet of four
five-seater German Junkers, supple-
mented nine months later by another
three three-engine 14-seater JU-52/3A
planes.
Today South African Airways, which
cover an extensive network of domestic
and regional services and operate the
Springbok Service (one Boeing 707 a
week on six different international
routes through Europe terminating at
London) in addition to the Wallaby
Service to Perth, have a fleet of
29 aircraft, comprising three Boeings
707-344, seven Vickers Viscount 813,
four Douglas DC-7Bs, four Lockheed
Constellations (L 749), five Skymasters
(DC-4) and six Dakotas (DC-3). South
African Airways employ a staff of
almost 3000, including 141 pilots and
236 other crew members. In 1960-61
(the last year for which final figures
are available), South African Airways
chalked up 162,554,725 passenger miles
on its internal routes, 14,837,308 miles
on regional lines and 145,341,654 on the
trunk services. Freight ton-miles carried
added up to 7,339,827 (including
6,060,659 carried on trunk routes).
Revenue earned in 1960-61 amounted
to R 22,665,034 and expenditure to
R 21,928,000, leaving a net surplus of
R 736,717.


X.
WORLDS
LARGEST GOLD
PRODUCER
are you getting your share?
South Africa is, indeed, the world's
largest gold producer one reason for
her prosperity and purchasing power.
Many Australian companies are already
finding lucrative markets in South Africa
(the highly condensed list below indi-
cates the potential). To the export-
conscious, this surely merits 'on the spot'
investigation—particularly as you can be
there overnight, in the superb comfort of S.A.A.'s Springbok service, at a cost of
about £4o* as part of a trip to or from Europe. So here's an item for your next
sales meeting.
A £4o* sidetrip to SOUTH AFRICA
on your next overseas trip could
earn a new EXPORT MARKET!
THESE ARE SOME OF THE ITEMS
AUST. EXPORTS TO STH. AFRICA
Foodstuffs—Paints—Hardware
Electrical Goods Motor
Vehicles Kitchenware
Machinery, all types—Rubber,
Plastic and Leather Goods—
Timber Sporting Goods
Chemicals, Oils—Piece Goods
—Synthetic Yarns
is your product here?
•There is a slight fare variation from
the different Australian capital cities.
Take your camera, too . . . Once in South
Africa, enjoy the richest sightseeing the world
has to offer. See Kruger National Park, the
diamond mines at Kimberley, Victoria Falls.
Shop for curios in quaint native villages,
explore great cities such as Johannesburg,
Durban and Cape Town. See your travel agent.
South
FRICANIRWAYS
Choice of daylight or overnight flights
by magnificent Boeing 707 Stratojets
between Johannesburg and London
with choice of stop-overs at no
extra air fare, or non-stop to Athens
and again onward to London.
IN ASSOCIATION WITH QANTAS, 8.0.A.C., C.A A. AND E.A.A.
SAABO/2C.8
AIR FREIGHT FORWARDING
Tf international air freight forwarding
A companies in Australia get the
improved rates they are at present seek-
ing from international airlines, air freight
forwarding agents could form a more
important part of the Australian aviation
industry. It may even lead to the forward-
ing agents negotiating to handle—with
what they claim will be greater speed and
efficiency—some of the collection, book-
ing and delivery of air freight on domestic
airlines.
A company playing a major part in
present negotiations for a better rate
structure of payment from international
airlines is Emery Air Freight of USA,
which has been operating in Australia for
about two years and in that time through
its Sydney chief, Mr Douglas H. G. Rus-
sell, has more than doubled its business.
Emery Air Freight is at present only
delivering to Australia from abroad, and
it has permanent freight reservations
with every international airline. It has
42 offices in USA and a network
throughout Europe, also offices in
Tokyo, Hong Kong, Manila and South
Africa, as well as Sydney and Melbourne.
Through teleprinter and Telex links
with its offices world-wide, plus efficient
ground handling, it claims it can cut air
freight pick-up and delivery time by
more than half. The company gets from
the international airlines 25 p.c count
on every 100 lb. of air freight business
placed, of which it passes 10 p.c. on to
the client and keeps 15 p.c.
But Emery Air Freight, as a member
of the Australian Air Freight Forwarders
Association, is pressing the international
airlines for a better deal. It wants an
improved rate structure, amounting to
bigger discounts for bigger quantities of
freight.
One big international airline has coun-
tered by insisting that the air freight
forwarders should book freight both in
and out of Australia, and has offered
special rates for special cargo. But the
air freight forwarders do not agree with
this, although they hope they can ultima-
tely negotiate with all the airlines.
The freight forwarders say they are
giving the international airlines free sales
coverage by business calls on freight
clients to push airline freight service,
which amounts to valuable free pro-
motion.
Emery’s chief, Mr Russell, a vice-
president of the AAFFA, claims that the
weight-break-rate standard of larger dis-
counts for larger quantities of freight
operates on the Atlantic and North Paci-
fic air routes.
“The only place where it is not opera-
ting is on the Kangaroo Route to and
from Australia, and on the Australia-
Pacific route,” he commented.


ALITALIA
STRONG POSITION IN COMPETITIVE FIELD
By Desmond O’Grady
/\n June 16 Alitalia began its second
” year in Australia with confidence
because its first year’s performance could
hardly have been bettered. It made its
impact through an effective promotion
campaign, backed with splendid service
and the kind of initiative which has been
the company’s hallmark since it was
formed in 1946.
Twelve months’ effort has firmly es-
tablished Alitalia here. The opening of a
new route to Europe via Singapore,
Bangkok, Bombay, Karachi and Teheran;
the establishment of a new linking ser-
vice from Sydney to Rome via Bangkok,
Hong Kong and Tokyo; the opening of
branch offices in Suva, Fiji, for the
South-West Pacific area, other branches
in Melbourne and Brisbane, and a station
office in Darwin; and the operation of
the first Rolls-Royce DC-8 jet airliners
to Australia indicate the scope of the
company’s operations.
Calculated and venturesome enterprise
has been the mainspring of Alitalia’s
growth since it began operating on Sep-
tember 15, 1946, under an agreement
reached in Rome between the Govern-
ment’s Industrial Reconstruction Insti-
tute (1.R.1.) and British European Air-
ways. 1.R.1. is a public corporation whose
business is to translate the general lines
of the Government’s economic policies
into investment and production pro-
grammes for the companies which it
controls. It is, in fact, a financial and
technical head office, which helps to
solve problems too vast for a single en-
terprise. 1.R.1. reached an agreement
with the American company, Trans-
World Airlines, in 1946 for the forma-
tion of another Italian line, Linee Aeree
Italiane.
By 1956 Alitalia was flying to
England, France, West Germany, Swit-
zerland, the Middle East and North and
South America, while L.A.L, in addition
to operating domestic services, was flying
to European countries, Egypt and North
America. In 1957 it was decided to
merge the two companies. The control
of the company became solely Italian
when, in 1960, B.E.A. relinquished its
holding and Britain signed a five-year
agreement with Italy covering capacity
and frequency of their national air ser-
vices between the two countries.
After the merger, some time was spent
in standardising aircraft and selling the
older planes but, by 1960, Alitalia was
ready to go out after new markets. A
new fleet of DC-8 jets for long distance,
and Caravelle jets for intermediate and
shorter distance, flights was acquired and,
for the first time, passengers carried
exceeded one million against 10,000
carried in 1947 and 24,000 carried in
1950. The volume of freight traffic
jumped by 77 p.c. between October,
1959 and October, 1960, and, to cope
with the increase, two DC-7C’s were
converted to freight-carrying. By 1961
the paying passenger load had grown by
40 p.c. to 1,528,175 persons carried to 65
cities in 42 countries, while the
12,500,000 ton-miles of cargo carried
represented a 116 p.c. increase on the
1960 figure; an outstanding performance
in the strenuous fight for freight loads
among the major airlines. By the end of
the year the company’s £A6S million
fleet will consist of 12 DC-8 Rolls-Royce
jets and 14 Caravelles. This rapid expan-
sion is all the more remarkable when
taken in conjunction with the general
slowing down of airline development
throughout the world in 1961.
HThe company has a capital of 25,000,-
A 000,000 lire (£A17,583,167) and an
awareness that initiative pays off so it is
sure to keep up its investment in jets
despite their high obsolesence rate. To
cope with the complex questions which
will face it in the future, Alitalia has a
planning chief who does not concern
himself with present problems but spends
his time considering what the company
must do in five or ten years time. Alitalia
must plan for a future in which both the
cost of projects such as space research
and supersonic airliners demand interna-
tional co-operation, and the economic de-
velopment of Europe is being forged
with the same principle as a guide. Euro-
pean Air Union seems a certainty, al-
though there has been no final decision
on the exact form it will take.
Agreement has been reached on the
share of total 1972 traffic by the mem-
bers of Air Union, in the following
proportions:
French companies 34 p.c.
Lufthansa 30 p.c.
Alitalia 26 p.c.
Sabena 10 p.c.
This is some indication of what the
final agreement is likely to be.
Alitalia was particularly pleased to
obtain transit rights in Australia because
round-the-world flights seem a most
promising aspect of the airline business.
POLAND
SMALL PLANES WIDELY USED
fF-HE most approachable and least regi-
mented of the Soviet orbit countries,
Poland is steadily increasing its capital
investment in the aircraft industry.
Great hopes are being pinned on lifting
earnings from foreign tourists, and the
operational network of the Polish Air-
lines (PLL-LOT) is gradually expanding.
LOT serves both the domestic and
international air routes. In 1961 201,632
passengers and 4048 tons of freight
were carried. Soviet influence is strongly
felt in the airline’s equipment, which
mainly consists of Soviet-made IL-18
turboprops. But one French Caravelle
was bought recently.
'C'xpanding rapidly the Polish aviation
industry now produces—apart from
manufacturing Soviet-designed fighters
and bombers—several types of light air-
craft and helicopters extensively used in
agriculture and forest-culture, medical
services and for tourism and air sport.
These include the PZL-101 (a high-wing
metal machine), the PZL-102 “KOS”
(a sporting and tourist plane similar to
Victa’s Airtourer, and recently exhibited
in Melbourne) and the small SM-1 heli-
copter with a special medical version.
Most successful gliders include one-
seater JS-Sep, JS-Jastrzab, Mucha
(100SZ-12A and Standard), Jaskolka,
the high-performance SZD-19X Zefir
(with laminated wings), the two-seater
Bocian (ID and SZD-9bis) and the
popular ABC, Salamandra and Czapla.
KLM
WORLD'S OLDEST AIR SERVICE
A mong its many “firsts”, the pioneer-
ing KLM Royal Dutch Airlines
(Koninklijke Luchtvaart Maatschappij
N.V., to give its full name), lays claim
to being the world’s oldest regular com-
mercial air service still operated by the
same company.
On May 17, 1920, the infant KLM
inaugurated the first regular passenger
air service between Amsterdam and
London. A converted military plane,
with an open cockpit for the pilot and
his two passengers, was used and the
company’s first service for its customers
was to supply them with warm leather
clothing and . . . hot water bottles. In
1921 the first airline booking office was
opened by KLM in Amsterdam. The
first intercontinental charter flight came
in 1927.
In October, 1934, KLM took part in
the Macßobertson Air Race from Lon-
don to Melbourne and won the handicap
section with a normal commercial air-
craft (Douglas DC-2 PH-AJ “Uiver”)


IMPORTERS!
a&wjt j/<m/
V.£W
"P
Importers and purchasing agents who
insist on the fastest, most efficient air
freight available, always rely on EMERY
Air Freight! They know from experi-
ence that only EMERY gives you these
extra services:
• Use of all airlines.
• Faster ground handling.
• Constant Telex information.
• Personal supervision of each shipment.
• World-wide coverage — plus lower
rates.
Don’t just say “AIR FREIGHT” on your
urgent overseas orders . . . say “EMERY
AIR FREIGHT” . . . it’s so much easier
and more convenient. Once you’ve
caught the EMERY “bug” you’ll never
let it go!
vs
EMERY
AIR FREIGHT
SYDNEY (KINGSFORD-SMITH) AIRPORT,
MASCOT . . . Telephone: 67-0381 (6 lines)
MELBOURNE AIRPORT, ESSENDON,
VICTORIA . . . Telephone: 39-5452.
42 OFFICES IN U.S.A. AND CANADA.
ALSO LONDON—GLASGOW—PARIS—MILAN-*
COPENHAGEN-AMSTERDAM-
FRANKFURT—STUTTGART—DUSSELDORF.
carrying passengers and mail. In 1936
KLM became the first European airline
to use the Douglas DC-3 aircraft and in
1938 the first to introduce the Lockheed
L-14 Super Electra. Early 1939 saw
the inauguration of the Curacao-Port of
Spain and the Amsterdam-Kristiansand-
Oslo services. Then Germany’s attack
on Poland on September 1, 1939, caused
the suspension of all KLM’s European
air routes. In May, 1940, Nazi bombs
destroyed 18 planes at the Schiphol air-
port. The invaders seized another 11.
During the war all operations—except in
the Caribbean area (where expansion
continued) and on the Bristol-Lisbon-
Gibraltar line, under charter to BOAC
—were discontinued.
After the liberation in 1945 a fresh
start had to be made in the face
of powerful international competition.
Eighteen Skymasters were obtained from
the United States and KLM started
anew, at first lagging far behind the
American and British airlines.
Astute financing, reliable service,
planning ahead and pioneering spirit
inherited from the pre-war era were
the main factors behind the rapid come-
back.
TPoday KLM operates a fleet of 91 air-
craft (including 12 pure jets).
Another 26 planes (two Fokker “Friend-
ships”, 12 Lockheed L-188 C “Electras”
and 12 DC-8 jets) are on order. The
company is noted for constantly intro-
ducing new aircraft and equipment to
maintain its position in the competitive
struggle. KLM was the first airline in
Europe to bring in the Lockheed Super-
Constellation with turbocompound
engines in Europe in 1953 and the first
in Europe to order the DC~Bs.
KLM's present operational network
covers 114 cities in 80 countries on
both sides of the Iron Curtain. The
Australian service was introduced in
1951 and a KLM jet flight leaves Sydney
at 10.45 a.m. every Friday for Amster-
dam, via Biak, Manila, Bangkok,
Karachi, Beirut, Rome and Frankfurt,
with an immediate jet connection to
Tokyo from Biak.
A public company, KLM is run on
normal commercial lines. Its shares are
quoted in Holland and in New York.
The Netherlands Government (which is
the major shareholder with some 70
p.c. of the company’s shares), appoints
several members of the board of direc-
tors and can theoretically control the
airline. In fact the Government’s
nominees are usually prominent business
men or air industry specialists and the
company is run like any other big
business —much the same as Australia’s
Qantas.
E.B.


Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
TO WILLIAM MIDGLEY, formerly of 645
Nicholson Street, North Carlton, VICTORIA.—
TAKE NOTICE that your wife JANE MIDG-
LEY has presented a Petition to the Supreme
Court of Western Australia for a decree of
dissolution of marriage against you on the
ground of separation. If you desire 'to defend
the petit 4 on or institute proceedings against
the petitioner you must file your Answer
in the Central Office, of the Supreme Court at
Perth within twenty eight (28) days from
the date of • this publication. In default of
your- doing so The suit , may proceed and the
.Court will pronounce Judgment and make
orders against you in your absence. DATED
this 18th day of June One thousand nine
hundred and sixty two. G. L. Boylson, Regis-
trar, CHARLES R. HOPKINS & CO., 254
.Murray Street, Perth, Western Australia.
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: GARNET McKEOWN, late of Moore Park—
TAKE NOTICE that BERYL ANN McKEOWN
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 282 of 1962
on the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for two years and upwards. If you
wish to defend you may enter an answer in
the Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, by the 11th day of
August, 1962, and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from GEOFFREY SEE, GILLIS
& CO., Solicitors, 28 Martin Place, Sydney
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
LAUNCESTON DISTRICT REGISTRY
No. M.C. 41 of 1962
Between
JOHN ALFRED MCCARTHY, Petitioner
and
BARBARA MAXINE MCCARTHY, Respondent
TO: BARBARA AIAXINE MCCARTHY formerly
of PERTH in Tasmania.—TAKE NOTICE that
JOHN ALFRED MCCARTHY has filed a divorce
Petition against you on the ground of
desertion or alternatively separation AND
TAKE NOTICE that il you intend to defend
the Petition you must file an Answer within
28 days of the publication of this Notice at
the Registry of the Supreme Court of Tas-
mania, Macquarie Street, Hobart, or at the
Launceston District Registry, Cameron Street,
Launceston, from which address further in-
formation can be obtained otherwise the
Court may hear and determine the proceed-
ings in 5 7 our absence. Dated this 22nd day of
June, 1962.—(Sgd) J. V. TANNER, District
Registrar.
QUADRANT
Articles in the winter issue of QUADRANT
include "The Metaphor of Leftness" by
DONALD HORNE; "Ezra Pound's Central
Judgments on Contemporary Literature" by
NOEL STOCK; "The Form of 'Such Is
Life'" by BRIAN KIERNAN and "The Maori
on the March" by DOROTHEA JOBLIN.
This issue also contains poems, a short
story and book reviews,
On sale at booksellers or leading
newsagents, or at . . .
Box 4714, G.P.0., Sydney.
MOTOR OVERHAUL
WHILE-U-DRIVE
REPLATES WORN, upper cylds., main bear-
ings, diffs., sears SAVE: Rebore. ENDS:
Piston siap. rattles. oil. petrol waste,
RESTORES: New compression, power, top
speed, zip. SAVES: Adds LSD to re-sale value
GUARANTEED: tip to 25,000 miles. Harmless
finest engine, liquid Nu-Metal, or in Tablet
form. SIMPLY: Add Re-Nu expanding liquid
Nu-Metal, or in Tablet form to oil, petrol, or
plug holes. 4. 6. 8 cylds., 60/. 70/ 80/. Testi-
monials. engineers’ reports, free advice avail-
able. Open Saturday Distributors required.
RE-NU CO. (estab 19321 38 Swan St op
Richmond Stn.. Vic .J 81755
I enclosr- £ for Super Nu-Metal
NAME
ADDRESS
BUL
LIGHT AIRCRAFT
GROWING MARKET IN AUSTRALIA
A ustralia now provides an expanding market for light aircraft. One company
A J “‘ Victa’s Aviation Division, will shortly put its locally designed and built single
engine Airtourer 100 and 115 on the market, and estimates that it can soon sell 100
aircraft a year.
Built for executive travel, commercial
personal use or as a dual-control club
trainer, the Victa Airtourer 110 will sell
at the basic price of £3950 (extra for
navigational aids, radio, etc.). At least
£400,000 has been spent so far on
designing the aircraft.
An all-metal, low-wing monoplane the
Airtourer is powered by a 100 horse-
power engine giving it a maximum speed
of 133 m.p.h. and a cruising speed of
126 m.p.h. The Airtourer can climb at
80 m.p.h. to 15,000 ft. Its range is 840
miles and petrol consumption 4.5 gallons
an hour.
The aircraft was designed by Polish-
born Mr Henry Millicer, chief designer
of Victa’s Aircraft Division,
yiCTA’s Airtourer has powerful com-
V petitors the Beech, Piper and
Cessna, which have virtually displaced
the now obsolete old faithful, the Tiger-
moth.
The powerful De Havilland group,
a part of the huge Hawker Siddeley
combine (of UK) is well entrenched in
the light aircraft market. Its spokesmen
are confident about future prospects and
point to the increasing uses of small
aircraft in the pastoral industry, for
companies with widely distributed
country interests and for sport. But they
feel that main trend is for commercial
uses of small aircraft. This view is
supported by the extensive use of Aus-
tralia’s tiny “secret fleet”—the B.H.P.’s
£600,000 340-m.p.h. 10-seater Grum-
man Gultstream Twin-Dart “executive
transport” and Consolidated Zinc’s
Italian Piaggio (a Twin-Lycoming six-
to nine-seater, costing some £40,000).
The De Havilland group markets an
extensive range of small aircraft, with
prices varying from £4200 to £68,200:
Morane-Saulnier Rally Club (£4200) and
Super Rally (£5100); Beechcraft Musk-
eteer (£7980), Debonair (£12,220),
Bonanza (£14,720), Travel Air (£26,400),
Baron (£31,100); DSOE Twin Bonanza
(£45,250), J5O Twin Bonanza (£51,480),
Queen Air 65 (£63,950), Queen Air 80
(£68,200), Beech 18 (£67,000); D. H.
Canada Beaver (£23,800), Otter
(£47,485); and De Havilland Dove
(£52.900).
1 he popular Cessnas, cheaper but less
elaborate than the Beech, are rep-
resented in Australia by Rex Aviation
Ltd, which sold about 90 aircraft in
1961. Now the Cessnas will have to
compete not only with the De Havilland’s
range and the Airtourer but also with
such virile new entrants as Melbourne’s
Brookes’ Aviation and Pipair and Syd-.
ney’s Piper Aviation Pty Ltd.
Estimates are that the three principal
types of light aircraft Beech,, Piper
and Cessna will share a market of
some 250 planes in 1962. At least half
will be used for business flying (includ-
ing graziers), crop dusting, aeromagnetic
surveys and various scientific work.
BENDIX-TECNICO
NEW DEVELOPMENTS
|>endix-tecnico, a subsidiary of the
Sydney-registered Pye Industries Ltd.
has announced the release of the Dop-
pler, a new development in the Aus-
tralian aviation industry.
That mystifying change of note when
a car speeds past sounding its horn,
or when a train roars by with whistle
blowing—that’s Doppler. Named after
Christian Doppler, who in 1842 offered
the first true explanation of the effect
(a change in wavelength as the train
whistle approaches and then departs),
the phenomenon is now in regular use
by inter - continental airliners and
bombers as a means of automatic
navigation.
Radio waves, instead of sound waves,
are used in the airborne Doppler, for
Christian’s effect works equally well at
very high frequencies. A pencil beam
of radio energy, aimed at the ground
from an aeroplane, undergoes a change
in wavelength as it bounces off the
earth and echoes back to the moving
aircraft.
This single change of wavelength,
proportional to the aeroplane’s speed, in
itself would be useless for navigational
purposes. But when four separate beams
are repeatedly flashed to the ground one
after the other, the resulting echoes,
fed into an airborne Doppler computer,
produce continuous heading and drift
information that is extremely accurate
over great distances.
Doppler is automatic in action. It
navigates and guides the aeroplane
entirely without human assistance. At
the start of a flight, the aircraft captain
merely selects the bearing and distance
of his destination, and then gives control
to Doppler and the autopilot.


Feiffer
IF HOU IfiU-h
?L£ME TUW
To
of m
APPtmr.
■ iA/tfiifc PAPER
NIUMOPR
POU AU
HAVt IT f
tiVMM-
CIA VC
STATF f
15 THAT
IT, OHIFF?
yet. muo,
?ism, 1
if you
Mu
smm-j
lie - J
F%UEF if CHIEF.
HERB CHESTER-
SORRLJ I'M
LFTF CHIEF
I \aIA6 .
FINISHING "
UP A 500 K
mm.
m to be
PROMPT,
CHKTFR. fHf
RFFT OF US
MANAGE TO
6FT OUR
boop.mimi
pone ow i
OUR OWN I
TIME.
APWPf
WHATS fHF
\
k [W,
' PAP
4SL
how THfN), m pros ten 1$
m improvement of
IKITBLUfigMCg OPORATIOM6
BSVOOSH 00 RS ELVES AW
ms\tß, OUR'.
SELVES AMP
ASIfR/AMP
(ffIRE DIFFICULT
BECAUSE IT'S
A CLOSED
soaer^)
OURSELVES 1
AMP HA.
HES,EP- 1
iaibllm ve
HAP SDMF
SUCCESS iM
TMoriwe
CIA'S AC-
T/VAIT/5S fitf
‘ MOMTORiMO
THF FMPMWO
RAPID •
_ ACCUSATIONS,
CHIFF.
r m- HoioemtfAte
TlWb ME IT FIMPS
it iwcrsasimsw
FRUSTRATE TO
Recomze a MP' 1^
GOVEWMEUT IK.'
TWE MORN)IM6 (
&mw to me
CIA m TO
OV6RTBROU)
IT IfJ THf
AFT£RMOOfJ.
MOW, THATS
OtfPPY.
IW IZRH6 Of
m& R.kK)6£
FLAMNIfJS CIA
SHOULD, ON -
OCCP6IOM,
wm tne
SAMe mem
police AS
WOUU7MT
wu bM,
at c Hierr
I'LL 0W "THAT MU'. TMPE
UP A OA6slFl£p MEMP AnJP
IEAIT IT T£> THE PRESS. MOW
APTEP LUfOCH I WAE)T TO—
PISCOSS PPSSIBI-E
Sites r« a fume
SERIES
PHERIC TESTS. I
UNftKTNM?
THAT SOMEBOPW
SU3&ESTEP HAVANA:
00/J •
App^rir,
• ctf/ef
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 699
ACROSS
I —A European duck heartens the Corsican. (8)
s—State holds it against the Queen, according to a
restaurant employee. (6)
9—Continental soldier who initiates us happy lunatics
after noon. (5)
10—They’re to be heard of South American barrackers
conspiring. (2, 7)
12—Conspiracy embracing embracers, the last of whom
is strong on kissing. (6-6)
14—Part of the Southern Hemisphere associated with an
extinct bird is part of the Southern Hemisphere. (5)
15— Cream isn't ''whipped'' by this
rascal. (10)
17— Foreign money put back by a
marshal of 1-across. (3)
18— Ventilate a tune. (3)
19 — Safe or true? (anagram). (4-6)
22 Some corresponding stone is
broken. (5)
23 Bird to Hog Billy the Impe-
cunious. (4-4-4)
26 Drink hole affected desk
equipment. (3-6)
27 Separated an actor’s job. (5)
28— Observe the boil. (6)
29 Injured tiger set for a Pari-
sienne of obscure reputation.
(8)
DOWN
1— Wilde time for figures which
aren’t so good. (7,8)
2 Early Mormon practice which
makes my play go! (8)
3 Hangs around darling Erskine-
ville too much. (7)
4 Duo I’m hiding with consider-
able unpleasantness. (5)
6 Aunt Sallies taken in at the
most ember-like. (7)
7 You figures without sands. (4)
8— Deadly game for a party where
an empty barrel is hoped for
(7, 8)
11—Related cat gone wrong. (7)
13—Abyssinian vizier. (3)
16— Freshly lassoed. (2-5)
18—Inquiry as to your existence if
Canberra’s surroundings are a
product of some maker’s skill.
(8)
19— Not many comment on the
heat ignorantly! (3)
20— Mclntosh KO’s Henneberry—
it’s too much for this city of
Wisconsin. (7)
21— Ceremonial Scots sport these
effects of sunbaking after a
sailor. (7)
24 He might be quite a peaceful
fellow, but he’s having a row.
(5)
25 One of the isles where keys are
cut. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 698


The world’s finest tobacco is at your fingertips
t \
i \
j •• /
! a
w
UNTrpPEn
KING SHE
CIGARETTES
length for
q^alersrnooth/iess
j;
THE
ONLY VIRGINIA
KING SIZE
PLAIN
