

The Bulletin
SEPTEMBER 29. 1962
AUSTRALIA 1/-. N. 2. 2/-. SINGAPORE, MALAYA $1
INCORPORATING THE FINANCIAL TIMES
LMIIJB in uij
I lil i 1
Edgar Williams, Queensland Secretary of the A.W.U.


Princeton
THE ONLY
FILTER
CIGARETTE
WITH REAL AMERICAN TOASTED FLAVOR
■iwwwiiMiiai
nceron
FILTER
TOASTED
after action
sdf
satisfaction
Rich, blended tobaccos toasted to bring full,
satisfying American flavor. That’s Princeton,
the filter with the flavor you’ve been wanting!
So, after action get the satisfaction that
comes with Princeton filter, the honest-to-
goodness taste of real toasted tobacco.
*Made for the Riggio Tobacco Corporation of New York Ltd.


QUEENSLAND'S "RUNNING SORE"
Tl- there is one thing about Labor Party politics that everyone knows
it is that the Victorian Labor Party is little more than a Communist
front openly supporting Unity Tickets, Peace Fronts and endorsing
Communist foreign policies—from handing Formosa over to Red China
to destroying ANZUS.
For some time it has been clear that Labor’s only hope of returning
to power in the Federal Parliament was for the Party’s Federal Executive
to dismiss the Central Executive of the Victorian Labor Party. For
some time, too, the main hope was that this year the Queensland repre-
sentatives on the Federal Executive would be changed, giving the re-
formers a majority.
It is now becoming clearer, however, that this is a forlorn hope.
Queensland is becoming the new “running sore” of the Australian
Labor Party. As Peter Kelly shows in his article (“Queensland—Labor’s
Key to Canberra?”) on page 12, the reformer’s hope was that the gigantic
Australian Workers’ Union would regain control of the Labor Party in
Queensland and that it would replace the two leftist pro-Victorian dele-
gates to the Federal Executive. The four biggest unions affiliated with
the Labor Party in Queensland are flagrant Unity Ticket unions which
the Party Executive does not so much ignore as encourage.
If this sort of thing happened in some minor splinter party it would
not matter. But the ALP is the alternative Government of Australia
—a Party which under Victorian and Queensland control would be com-
mitted not to building up our home defences but to abandoning them,
not to strengthening SEATO but to destroying it, not to supporting our
allies in Malaya or Formosa but to withdrawing our troops from the one
and to handing the other over to the Communists, not to cementing our
American alliance but to renouncing it.
One must still hope that the Australian Labor Party is cleaned up,
but there seems little sense in looking towards Brisbane for the lead
—at least for the next few years.
SIR GARFIELD EXPLAINS...
T TOW can Sir Garfield Barwick get up in the United Nations and
pretend that Holland walked out of West New Guinea because
“it desired to end its administration” there? This is on a par with his
earlier statement that Australia in no way brought pressure to bear on
the Dutch decision to transfer sovereignty to Indonesia. This country
brought pressure to bear simply by withdrawing support from Holland
and making it perfectly clear that our national interests demanded an
accommodation with Indonesia.
Common sense, a common border and the common necessity of
understanding our nearest, most populous neighbour demands that
Australia must build firm and friendly relations with Indonesia. They
certainly need building and lack of understanding is not ours alone.
A respected right-wing Indonesian magazine recently featured on its
front cover an ant labelled “Colonialism, Imperialism” crawling across
the map of Australia. The general notion was that Australia might become
a springboard for NATO aggression against Indonesia! The effect of
fantastic and contrived political notions such as this will not be dispelled
overnight. And understanding and sympathy won’t be helped by state-
ments such as Sir Garfield’s. The Dutch ended their administration in
West New Guinea because of British indifference, U.S. desertion and
Australian timidity. Australians know this. The Dutch know it. The
Indonesians must know it. Why then pretend?
Mr MacWONDER Page 6
Victory in the Last Round?
@
Queensland’s ALP 12
Life with Father - Profile 17
The Doll Who Reads Books -
Lolita in Sydney 18
Putting Australia on the Map
A Dialogue 19
Australian Writers in London
John Pringle 20
Boadicea on Big Car Range .... 23
Communism and Latin America
-—No. 2 24
Glittering Equatorial Slum 25
DeStalinising Bulgaria 26
Persecution of Soviet Jews 27
“Black Nativity” from Ray Mathew 31
Paul Smith on Heller’s “Catch-22” 35
Japanese Trade Pact 41
Warning for Motor Firms 46
Sugar Industry Awaits E.E.C 61
9
NATIONAL NOTEBOOK 4
TANNER 5
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
AROUND MELBOURNE 9
OUT AND ABOUT 17
London NEWSLETTER 20
FEIFFER 22
MOTORING 23
OVERSEAS 24
FORUM 27
LETTERS 29
REVIEWS 31
RED PAGE 35
WORLD OF BUSINESS 41
MAN ON THE LAND 60
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Si., Sydney
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521: Phone 27-5971
Melbourne: Phone MF 3341. Brisbane: Phone
B 2691. Adelaide: Phone W 4121-3
Vol. 84
No. 4311


National
Notebook
Without Comment
We hear that irreverent University stu-
dents have coined a new name for Aus-
tralia: South Irian.
Wrong Tack
THhe Hon. Thomas George de Largie
D'Alton can be quite a problem to
his friends, as he proved to the Curtin
Government when it appointed him
High Commissioner to New Zealand in
1943. His mind is independent and he
speaks it frankly at times.
He attracted the lightning when he
was a minister in the Tasmanian Govern-
ment before his appointment to New
Zealand; he has done so on occasion
since his return and election to the
Legislative Council (in which he is
Government Leader), and he did it again
last week when the Opposition picked
up in the estimates a sum of £5OO
included in the general item, “travelling
and miscellaneous travelling expenses
and the Leader of the Government in
the Legislative Council”.
The Government had to admit that
this sum was provided to send Mr
D’Alton as Tasmanian representative to
the Pan-Pacific cerebral palsy con-
ference in Manila next December. No
one questioned Tom D’Alton’s work for
crippled and spastic children. The
Opposition objection was to the
“tacking.”
The Premier, Mr Reece, said that the
item could be interpreted as “tacking”,
and he would not persist with it. It was
thereupon rejected by the House.
Thais that Bind
TAesmond O’Grady, who until a month
ago was a member of The Bulletin
staff, and who is now flying by Alitalia
to Rome, has found the Australian influ-
ence strong in Bangkok. There are about
100 Australian families there, the biggest
group being government employees, but
two businessmen are prominent. One is
Peter Hyland, who has built a thriving
business on the export of duck feathers
from Thailand and Vietnam, the other
is Stewart Campbell, who was a member
of one of the early Australian expeditions
to the Antarctic and is the author of a
book on how to learn Thai which is
selling well in its second edition. He
runs the Australia-Thai Company which
is probably responsible for the first meal
O'Grady had in Bangkok. An Australian
couple invited him to lunch and served
canned Melbourne beer, savs and tomato
sauce. Someone must also take responsi-
bility for the Bangkok advertisement,
“Australian butter is good for your com-
plexion”.
The Australian tourists make a certain
impact also. On a three-hour launch
trip through Bangkok’s floating markets
the exotic atmosphe. was ruined for
O’Grady by a compatriot who wanted
to impress on an unresponsive American
that “The Summer of the Seventeenth
Doll” had a universal theme. O'Grady
tried to look more and more Swedish as
she prattled on: tropical growth and cane-
cutters started her off and then she was
on to the fascination of characteristic
Carlton. She did not bring Carlton close
but North Balwyn was unpleasantly near.
At the Chinese fr uit narket another
Australian had made his mark. A Chin-
ese boy acted as interpreter when
O'Grady bought half a pineapple for 1/3.
Complimented on his English the boy
said he had been friendly with another
Australian who had holidayed in Bang-
kok for three weeks. “He had sheep,”
said the boy, “he was what do you say
—a shepherd.”
The Unloved Ones
At Lennie Bruce's last show at the
Wintergarden in Sydney’s Rose Bay
the American comedian told his audience
of about 60 that he had agreed to appear
during the week at a Sydney nightclub.
“The manager made me promise not to
tell any jokes about sex, about religion or
about politics. I have to tell jokes about
cement,” he said. Perhaps it was just as
well that next morning he flitted the
country leaving instructions at his hotel
that no one was to be told until his plane
had taken off.
Bruce obviously didn't like Sydney (any
more than Sydney people liked him). He
tried to get the Monday audience to help
him burn down the Wintergarden while
he played Danse Macabre in the back-
ground—just to get even. Earlier on he
said how struck he’d been at the Zoo on
Sunday by the unattactiveness of Aus-
tralian men and women. “It looks as if
a lot of unlcv people came here and
bred,” be said.
He never really got over that disastrous
first night at Aarons —which was the
only time he really tried. At the Winter-
garden shows he always tur.ied up late
(on Monday an hour late) and gave the
impression he didn't care. Maybe his
promise to the police not to use the
“bad'’ words had taken he wind out of
his sails. And an audience of 60 in a
theatre which holds 2000 must have
been depressing. (At first he called out
for lights. When he got them he said:
“Now I see why they kept the lights off.
There's no one here. Last night I per-
formed for two hours before they told
me no one was here.”)
He ran through his famous routines
but without seeming to believe in them
any more. Only occasionally did he
strike form as when he said that liberals
will read anything written by bigots: “I
sometimes think that Rockwell’s Nazi
rallies in America are nothing but Rock-
well addressing halls full of angry Jews.”
Only two things in Australia
appealed to him. The first was “that
Japanese guy on TV last night. Santa ...
Santa... Yes Santamaria. Boy, was he
sharp!” The other was Tanner’s cartoons.
He gave an account of one as part of his
act. Tanner had better watch out.
On Their Toes
Boxing Day about 90 people will
take off by Air India on the first
leg of a 27-day tour of Russia. The
group will be split up into units.
“We would hove preferred the
Dutch to stoy in New Guinea.


those on a ballet tour, those on an educa-
tion tour and those who are, according
to the travel agency brochure, seeking
“new horizons”.
The Tours have been organised by
World Travel Service and are, perhaps,
the most comprehensive to be undertaken
in Russia, organised from here. The
party will fly from New Delhi by Soviet
jet and will visit Tashkent, Tbilisi, Kiev,
Leningrad and Moscow. The ballet group
will see performances of the Bolshoi and
Stanislavsky theatres in Moscow and the
Kirov and Maly companies in Leningrad.
The group will also visit ballet schools
and attend rehearsals at leading ballet
theatres. The education tour will include
visits to schools, universities, kinder-
gartens and health centres.
It has taken World Travel Service
four months to organise the tour with
Intourist and correspondence about it
fills folders.
Although parties of Australians regu-
larly visit the Soviet Union, World Travel
Services believes this is the first time
specialised tours have been available to
the general public. Inclusive return air
fare, economy class, with first-class
accommodation in the Soviet Union is
£670. The air fare, economy class to
Moscow is £6OB, and daily rate of
spending within the Soviet is reckoned at
about £l7 a day.
Mr Gordon Douglass, of World Travel
Service, said that the main advantage of
the tour would be the facilities afforded,
“People like Peggy van Praagh have gone
to Russia to study ballet and found they
can’t get to first base, because things were
not arranged properly in advance,” he
said. Mr Douglass said that some ballet
teachers and dancers would probably go
on the tour, but others may just be
ballet fans.
The Skin Game
VTew game laws introduced in the
' Northern Territory Legislative
Council will protect wild buffaloes and
even crocodiles from hunters. The
regulations will go to a vote at the
council’s next meeting which is next
month. If they pass, the Territory, once
a wide-open “frontier” area and still the
emptiest part of Australia, will have the
toughest game laws in the Common-
wealth. This will be a deathblow to the
emergence of big game hunting as a
tourist attraction.
Wild geese and ducks are protected
during the breeding months. Almost all
other types of birds can neither be shot
nor trapped. Several traffickers in rare
finches have been gaoled or fined
heavily.
If passed—and the betting is that they
will be —these will set aside huge areas
as game sanctuaries. Anyone venturing
on them, armed or not, will be liable to
six months’ gaol or a fine of up to £2OO.
Outside the sanctuaries hunters could
still shoot donkeys, wild camels, wedge-
tailed eagles and rabbits (there are few
rabbits in the Territory; none at all in
the Top End). But almost everything
else is protected, including even kanga-
roos and wallabies in all areas except
part of Central Australia, where they are
a plague and a pest.
The strangest provision of all covers
crocodiles. The crocodile would rank
as the deadliest creature in the Aus-
tralian bush. Protecting them is rather
like protecting sharks in Sydney Harbor.
Yet that’s just what will happen if the
new regulations go through. The only
persons allowed to shoot them would be
licensed hide hunters. And even they
must have a permit, stating among
other things the size of the “bag”
limit, and the age and sex of crocodiles
that can be killed.
High Life
\ propos of almost nothing, a friend
driving through the shopping centre
of Bowral, NSW, one Saturday morning
recently counted three Rolls Royces, five
Bentleys and six Rovers. It may mean
that things are not as tough as we thought
they were, or that although people often
say that nowadays no one can afford the
country-style life, a few people still can.
The Cover
tT*HE cover portrait of Queensland
AWU Secretary Edgar Williams
was painted by Brisbane artist Jon
Molvig. It is for sale on application to
the artist or to The Bulletin.
Mr Williams a tough minded top
Unionist spent only a morning at
Molvig’s studio, both entranced and
amazed at Molvig’s speed and concen-
tration.
Molvig is widely regarded as one of
Australia’s top painters. Bulletin
readers will get a glimpse of his versa-
tility when they see his brilliantly colored
“Surfers Paradise” painting which will
appear on the cover shortly.
Tanner
We would prefer to have
good relations with Indonesia.
But mostly we would prefer ... to forget the
whole thing/'


THIS AUSTRALIA
THE COMMONWEALTH CONFERENCE
BEHIND THE
LONDON COMMUNIQUE
A week inside Marlborough House
FROM A SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
H. MACMILLAN
Light at the end of the
tunnel.
Tie historic upheaval at the Com-
monwealth Conference was all the
more startling for its sedate set-
ting. Marlborough House, where the
Premiers gathered, is in a quiet corner
of London clubland where Pall Mall
joins St James’s. Its last occupant was
Queen Mary.
With its red brick and dirty stone it
looks like a provincial museum or a
minor university library. There are one
or two policemen at the gates and a
notice “dead slow, bewe - e of pedes-
trians”. A military policewoman in
bottle-green uniform and a red cap
ushers in the official cars.
Inside, the atmosphere is informal
like a club, not so different from the
Carlton up the street. In the conference
room, there are pale damask walls with
white pillars, a long table with round
ends, and two mantelpieces with clocks
that discreetly chime the quarter-hours.
The Premiers sit while they speak. The
tone is conversational and the strong
speeches read worse afterwards than they
sounded. In between sessions, the fami-
liar figure of Mr Macmillan shuffles pur-
posefully through the great rooms in
search of the elect.
On Monday morning, September 10,
when Mr Macmillan took his place with
Mr Butler, Mr Heath and Mr Sandys,
their backs against the large glass doors
framing the deep gardens, he knew he
was in for trouble. The question was
how much?
The British strategy was already set.
It was to get agreement from the most
important Commonwealth countries for
Britain to resume the negotiations with
the Six in Brussels on the basis of the
proposals so far agreed. There w'as to be
no basic revision of the terms, and
Britain would try to avoid any commit-
ment to another Commonwealth confer-
ence before making her final decision
about the Common Market. The tem-
perature at this conference was to be
kept as low as possible to avoid further
alarming British opinion. The Premiers
were to be shunted off as soon as possible
into committees discussing humdrum
technical details about tariffs and com-
modity prices than don’t make headlines.
A successful conference, in the British
view, depended on averting any ganging
up by any of the three major groups
the old Dominions, the Asians and the
Africans. The calculation was that in
the end everything might turn on four
men Mr Diefenbaker, Mr Menzies,
President Ayub Khan of Pakistan, and
Nigeria’s Sir Abubakar.
Especially Menzies. Macmillan saw
him twice before the conference. Butler,
Heath and Sandys saw him. too. On the
whole they were relieved. They thought
Menzies was trying to find a way of
fighting without hurting Britain.
Macmillan knew that much would
depend on the reception of his opening
speech, which he had been working on
for weeks. He decided to be frankly con-
fiding and to stick to the highest political
issues, leaving the economic details to
Heath.
It was one of his best speeches a
masterly analysis of the future trends in
world politics. It was deliberately in-
tended to leave no one in any doubt of
his determination that Britain must enter
the European Community, which he
foresaw as a new collective Great Power.
The conference applauded its quality and
its frankness, but not necessarily its con-
clusions.
At the end of this first day, the British
team were full of self-congratulation and
in high spirits.
On Tuesday morning, Macmillan and
his colleagues were remarkably cheerful
when they came into the conference. The
papers had splashed the applause for
Macmillans speech. On Monday, too,
there had been an unexpected bonus from
the Press; the “Daily Mirror” had come
out in support of the Government and
denounced Mr Gaitskell’s attack on the
Common Market terms. The British
Ministers expected to have to endure a
‘ grumbling session”, but they were quite
unprepared for what happened next.
The first piece of bad luck was that the
speaker chosen to open the debate was
the Canadian Prime Minister. The
speaking order, as usual, was arranged by
the Cabinet Secretary, Sir Norman Brook,
who presides over a committee of offi-
cials from all the delegations. As always
the difficulty was to persuade speakers to
come on early. The Canadian official
agreed to his leader being edged into the
first place, while the Australian had held
out for Menzies to be the last in the day’s
Older. This largely chance arrangement
helped to set the scene for what was to
fellow.
Diefenbaker had arrived at Claridge’s
both physically and politically shaky.
Canadians in London who had not seen
him recently were shocked by his appear-
ance. He looked ill; he had a bad ankle
and limped; his birdlike countenance
seemed more pinched and his sudden
shiny smile more unreal than ever.
When he met other delegations, on the
conference eve, they found him muddled
and his supporters badly briefed. Other
delegates who were hoping that he would
make a stand privately wrote him off as
a man who would find it impossible to do
anything decisive one way or the other.
He was firm on only one point: he refused
to meet any of the anti-Common Market
lobbyists.
But as Macmillan watched and Diefen-
baker adjusted the microphone on Tues-
day morning, it was at once plain that
something was badly wrong. Diefenbaker
was obviously in a highly emotional state.
It was worse, far worse, than the most
pessimistic forecast. He was rejecting
the whole tenor of Macmillan’s speech.
He was quoting and quoting again the
1959 speeches of the present Chancellor
ef the Exchequer, Mr Maudling, from
Hansard of February 12. Column 1381.
‘‘We must recognise,” Maudling had
said, “that to sign the Treaty of Rome
would mean having common external
tariffs which, in turn would mean the
end of Commonwealth free entry, and
I cannot conceive that any Government
of this country would put forward a pro-
position which would involve the aban-
donment of Commonwealth free entry.”
This was a direct assault on the British
Government.
Still worse was to come. He was
attacking not only the British position,
but the very idea of the Common Market.
By the time Diefenbaker sat down, the


damage was done. A fuse had been lit.
If Macmillan’s speech had met with
applause, the reception accorded “Dief”
was an ovation. One of the Ghanaians,
as he told the Queen a few nights later,
“was so moved that I thought I was
going to cry.”
Nor was there any comfort for the
British for the rest of that black day.
It was basic to the British strategy that
Canada should not line up with Austra-
lia, nor Pakistan with India. But Ayub
Khan, of Pakistan, when he followed
Diefenbaker, made an entirely unex-
pected assault on the protectionist atti-
tudes of Europe, putting himself firmly
among the assault force.
YJeither Ceylon’s Senator Fernando
nor New Zealand’s Mr Holyoake
(making a painfully difficult and honest
speech) provided any further shocks
before lunch.
The session after lunch, an unhappy
meal, acquired an extra dimension of
gloom. The cause of it was Mr Nehru.
Fie spoke without notes and so quietly
that some of the delegates could scarcely
hear a word he said. As he slowly un-
ravelled his own case against the Com-
mon Market, making little impression on
his more experienced listeners, he seemed
infinitely sad; a weary joke about cricket
(taken by the Australians as a personal
anti-Menzies jibe) made him seem all the
sadder.
He sounded like a man who had seen
and suffered too much, a man near des-
pair at the condition of mankind. He
said that the effect of the Common
Market might well worsen international
relations, and doubted whether, unless
the terms of Britain’s entry were im-
proved, the Commonwealth could survive.
While he spoke, the room grew hotter
and hotter, and a lady economist from
Trinidad cooled herself with a hand-fan.
Ghana set the African ball rolling
against any idea of accepting associated
status with the Common Market; the
aged Premier of Sierra Leone was soft
and friendly; then came the moment the
British had been anxiously waiting for:
the final address of the day by the key
figure from Australia.
Robert Gordon Menzies had come to
London from the cold Canberra winter
in a position of some personal difficulty.
On the one hand, the political situation
he had left behind made it imperative
that he put up a good fight.
He was moved, besides, by personal
feelings. He had never really liked Mr
Macmillan, nor thought him a man with
any genuine feelings for the Common-
wealth. In 1958 Macmillan had made all
of them in Canberra feel like provincials;
he had behaved as if he personally had
just discovered Australia.
Yet on the other hand Menzies had no
wish to lead an anti-British revolt, sup-
ported by a ragged army of Africans and
Indians. Much though he might deplore
Macmillan’s lukewarm Commonwealth
interests, he deplored still more strongly
the neutralism and unreliability of the
heads of some of the new Commonwealth
countries. If the Common Market really
meant a stronger Europe, a stronger West,
how could Australia not support it?
Menzies’s Minister of Trade and
Commerce, Black Jack McEwen dis-
trusted the British more even than his
Premier did, and on the most practical
grounds. What did all the vague double-
talk about world commodity agreements
mean? “The printing press hasn’t been
invented yet,” he remarked bitterly as
the conference opened, “which could
print a document to tie down the British
on a commodity agreement.”
Menzies, the best orator in the con-
ference room, was inexorable. “Are we
being asked to give a blank cheque? No
Government could do it and survive. Are
we being asked to go home and report
‘progress’ adding to the damaging un-
certainty and affecting confidence, invest-
ment, and values?”
He finished with another question. If
Australia was going to benefit from the
entry of Britain into Europe, then Aus-
tralia must have better access to Euro-
pean markets. “What effective assur-
ances have we to this end?” He sat
down to the loudest applause of the
day.
Later that evening, as Macmillan
played the host at Admiralty House to all
the Prime Ministers, he appeared, to
some of those present, to be deeply
shaken. Butler was still more disturbed.
“Today,” said a delegate from Ghana,
“was the Commonwealth’s finest hour.
Frank speeches, real independence of ex-
pression. Only Britain stood alone.”
Never, even at Suez, had the future of
the Commonwealth looked more bleak
than it did that night.
YlTednesday started by bringing little
" comfort, for the African revolt
which had been simmering over the sus-
pect, “associated status” came to a
head. Both Nigeria and Tanganyika
flatly rejected association —the Tangan-
yika delegate, Mr Kawawa, claiming to
speak for the whole of the East African
Common Market (Uganda and Kenya as
well as his own country).
Sandys later tried to get the Uganda
Premier and Kenya’s Minister of Finance
to say that Kawawa spoke only for his
own Government. All three resented this
tactic: they sensed that Sandys having
failed to drive a wedge between the
West Africans, was now trying to split
the East Africans.
African tempers were not improved
by the vigorous intervention of Sir Roy
Welensky on the side of associated status
(incidentally not yet offered to the Cen-
tral African Federation).
But if Wednesday started badly, it also
saw the turning point of the conference.
During the day the British counter-attack
began. The Premiers’ criticism had been
largely negative, said British officials.
Nobody had suggested any alternative to
Britain’s joining the Common Market.
What had happened to Diefenbaker’s
famous alternative plan?
XT'xcept for Canada and India, not one
country had opposed the idea of the
Common Market as such and none had
committed itself against Britain’s entry.
What the “doubts and anxieties” re-
vealed —the British explained to anyone
who would listen —was not so much
concern about the future of the Com-
monwealth as a desire to bully Britain
into negotiating oven more toughly with
the Six. Boiled down to essentials, most
countries had asked for more precise
terms. This, so the argument ran, hardly
amounted to a rejection of the proposals.
All the same, it was obvious that
things had gone seriously wrong. At a
post-mortem on Wednesday night the
British team listed the causes of the dis-
order.
First, Macmillan’s frank opening
speech had made the other Premiers feel
that the British decision to go into
Europe had already been taken and that
they themselves therefore had nothing to
lose by plain speaking.
Then the statement by the Common-
wealth Labour Parties, sponsored by
Gaitskell, denouncing the present Com-
mon Market terms, had made it more
necessary for several of the Common-
wealth Premiers to speak toughly so as
not to be outdone by their own opposi-
tion. The Government’s bitterness
against Gaitskell was deep.
None of the critical speeches taken
singly, even Diefenbaker’s, said much
that was either new or particularly strik-
ing. The trouble was that they all came
together, that they had been deliberately
leaked to get maximum publicity.
Here, the Government knew, was its
real problem; the impact of this outburst
on British public opinion.
For Macmillan it was a personal as
well as a national crisis. He had called
a Cabinet for Thursday but in fact he
spent most of the day in intensive lobby-
ing at Marlborough House. Most of the
morning he spent in talking to three of
the crucial leaders Menzies, Diefen-
baker and Ayub Khan.
During the day a mood of contrition
had begun to set in; many of the Pre-
miers were appalled by the damage done
by Tuesday’s crockery-breaking. There
were hints of efforts to repair as much


of the damage as possible, though
Diefenbaker was reportedly not one of
those who felt contrite.
Menzies, however, decided to take a
different tack; whatever his own mis-
givings he was not in favour of the
conference ending on a sour note. Be-
sides, he was due to meet Kennedy in
Washington and had no desire to appear
in his eyes as a wrecker.
The Australians began to float the idea
that if Britain would promise to increase
its price for Australian wheat, a way out
might be found. The British shrank
from a higher world wheat price, and a
special price for Australia alone would
not be possible under the E.E.C. rules.
But it was felt that if a decent guarantee
could be found to help “old Bob”, then
something might be arranged.
Diefenbaker was trying to float a
private get-out of his own: he would be
willing to accept a second Common-
wealth Prime Ministers’ conference to
meet before Britain finally entered the
Common Market. Menzies’ reaction
was: “God forbid.”
On Friday the task of picking up the
pieces started at 9 a.m. when Ayub Khan
saw Sandys to unravel Pakistan’s claims
for further consideration of its textile
exports. The Pakistan leader was losing
no opportunity to explain that, contrary
to any earlier impression, he w'as a
staunch champion of Britain going into
Europe, subject only to reasonable
terms. He was willing to help pave the
way himself for Britain’s entry.
Meanwhile Macmillan had gone early
to Marlborough House to be available
for informal talks with other Prime Min-
isters.
Messrs Heath and Sandys nursed the
discussions of the four committees on
temperate foodstuffs, Asian manu-
factured goods, associated status and
sugar.
In private meetings between Premiers
thought was being given C the con-
ference’s final communique. Menzies and
Ayub Khan were well to the fore work-
ing for a conciliatory statement.
By the end of the day the British
negotiators were heavy-eyed. Heath was
showing more signs of strain than at the
end of even the o reat marathon session
in Brussels; he could scarcely conceal
his bitterness and disappointment. Sandys
on the other hand, was exuberant.
Macmillan, too, had picked up some
of the buoyance he so noticeably lost on
Tuesday and Wednesday. He could relax
from his persistent lobbying to work, re-
vived, on the draft of his second speech
for Monday with which he hoped to win
over the reconcilables without offending
the irreconcilables notably (he Cana-
dians. There was light at the end of the
tunnel.
A SUMMING-UP
THE THREAT OF
THE LITTLE ENGLANDERS
From SIR WILFRID KENT HUGHES in London
SIR WILFRID
KENT HUGHES
Beyond the oak tree
Strength in a larger community
Tn its earlier sessions the 1962 London
Conference of Commonwealth leaders
seemed to concentrate for the most part
on shortsighted, narrow, nationalistic per-
spectives, which resisted any change in
the trade patterns that had served them
reasonably well in the past. Most of the
leaders evinced a strong desire to retain
the age of sheltered mark ts in Britain.
Having built part of their economic
development on this foundation it was
only natural that they should wish to
enjoy its benefits for as long as possible.
There was also a very genuine fear
that the European Common Market
might provide sheltered markets for its
own members to the exclusion of all
others.
Little thought would appear to have
been given to the question as to whether
the Commonwealth natioi. could sur-
vive, individually or collectively, if West-
ern Europe w'ere to remain divided and
quarrelsome in the future a. in the past.
USSR is unlikely either to sign or, if it
did sign to keep any agreements on dis-
armament or any other important issue if
the Communists are convinced that the
West can be divided. When I had the
privilege last year of meeting some of the
Continental ministers in France and West
Germany they stressed very strongly that
success of the movement towards inte-
gration of Western Europe was essential
for survival. The Big Six ha'/e already
succeeded far beyond the most optimis-
tic hopes of the founders of the Euro-
pean Common Market. Nevertheless
survival might be only temporary if
Britain does not become a member, and
Western Europe turned her eyes inwards
and towards the Urals, and not outwards
towards the Atlantic and the wider world.
A strong Western Europe, working in
close co-operation with the Atlantic com-
munity, would not only open up new
vistas of trade, security, peace and pro-
gress, but also would be in a far stronger
position to provide both trade and finan-
cial aid, required by the newer and
developing countries. All the Common-
wealth countries, except Britain, and
many other nations require such assis-
tance. The United States of America is
already finding it difficult to continue to
supply her generous and massive foreign
aid. The Trade Expansion Act, now
passed by Congress, is definite evidence
that the United States is looking out-
wards to the world instead ot inwards as
in the past. Furthermore a strong West-
ern Europe, in conjunction with the
Atlantic community, would establish
international monetary institutions to
stabilise currencies, in much the same
way as the Reserve Bank operates within
our own borders.
As the Conference proceeded there
were several indications that some Com-
monwealth leaders, including our Aus-
tralian Prime Minister, after having
strongly pleaded their own causes were
paying more attention to the larger and
more important issues involved.
The British public is being roused to
oppose Britain's entry by a campaign of
distortion, half truths and the “Rally-to-
the-Commonwealth” cry in full page
advertisements in most papers: “The
Commonwealth, not Europe, is the real
challenge for Britain's traders and states-
men.”
Once again the Little Englander is
banging his bowler hat and twirling his
umbrella. He does not stop to think that
his own Parliamentary system would
never have grown up if it had remained
a village moot under the village oak tree.
Neither will world co-operation expand
and develop if the Britisher limits him-
self to his nationalistic confines or it
will develop without him. Europe, which
for centuries past has torn herself and the
world to pieces because of nationalistic
feucL ar.J hatreds, is now succeeding in
getting together, while much of the world
is suffering from the disintegrating ef-
fects of decolonisation. This is the most
remarkable historical movement for
many centuries.
The communists are aiming at world
unity by world conquest through force
and fraud, misery and murder The
Democracies, and those who believe in
the democratic freedoms and principles
even though they may not be immedia-
tely operable in their own countries,
must either prove they can produce a
better world by voluntary effort, based


on higher motives, or they will disappear
in further retreats from Moscow in
blizzards of appeasement and snows of
apathy.
In the debate in Canberra on the com-
mon market on August 30 last it was
interesting to find that Britain’s entry was
opposed outright only by the extreme
Right and the extreme Left.
RELIGION
CHURCH SPLIT
No candles
HThe Church of England congregation
of Maclean on the NSW north coast
near Grafton about 600 miles from Syd-
ney, is split over the issue of candles.
A fine set has been donated to the church
by a parishoner and the '.ev. S Gaden
would like to use them in the church.
But if he does half the congregation will
stay away (the “low” church members);
if he does not the other half will stay
away. The candles are for the new church
being built. The “lows” have written to
the low church Bishop of Grafton for
protection against this “Popish outrage”.
Divisions over ritual and doctrine are
nothing new in the Church of England,
and have been frequent in NSW The first
major division in Australia between high
and low church was in 1850 at the Bi-
shops’ Conference when here was dis-
agreement over baptismal regeneration (a
live issue in protestant churches since the
Reformation).
More recently there was the “Red
Book” case which lasted from 1943 to
1948. In 1943 certain members of the
church in Canowindra, Bathurst, Orange
and Molong (where Rev. Gaden was in
1953) objected to a statement of ritual
and doctrine by the Bishop of Bathurst
Arnold Lomas Wylde, the famous “Red
Book.” This dispute between the high
church Wylde and his low church flock
was settled by a court judgment in 1948
when the High Court ruled that it was
illegal for the Bishop to depart from the
English ritual as his objectors had argued
he did (but which he denied).
On a less serious level have been
the disputes over such things as candles,
altars, and dancing.
The church in NSW is rather evenly
split between high and low church. The
numerically strongest diocese, Sydney, is
distinctly low church (as is Archbishop
Gough). Other dioceses which support
the high church line are Bathurst, River-
ina, Canberra and Goulburn. Sydney
diocese tends to dominate through its
numerical supremacy at the synods and
the NSW church has got a reputation for
being low throughout which is not
really true as the Maclean dispute
shows.
Around Melbourne
KINDLY SMILE FROM AN
ABERDEEN ANGUS
'\7eteran newspaper reporters in
" Melbourne have four annual
miseries Moomba, Anzac Day, the
Melbourne Cup and the Royal Show.
Each in its own way is utterly sacred.
They all earn a vast amount ol news-
paper space and it is rare that any-
thing new ever happens. The most
dreaded of. all these is the Royal Show.
Not only is it the same every year but
it is precisely the same as the other
Shows in Sydney, Brisbane and Adel-
aide even down down to the same
cast. The sameness is there to such a
degree that one gets an uncanny feel-
ing that this is just a continuation of
the previous show, that no time has
elapsed between 1961 and 1962. Last
week I received a lovely kind smile
from an Aberdeen Angus bull. He
just recognised me from last year.
The Royal Agricultural Society
runs the affair with a ruthless effi-
ciency. Nothing is put on that is
likely to cause the slightest disturb-
ance, no rodeos that are likely to
offend horse lovers, no male goats
that are likely to offend sensitive noses
and the side shows as vetted with a
proper sense for Melburnian pro-
priety. This year there is only one
that could bring a faint gleam to a
farmer’s eye “Vanessa The Un-
dresser.” Sadly Vanessa undresses
hardly at all. Even the large body of
police, who like to attend every per-
formance must feel that the public
deserves more bare flesh for three
shillings.
But wait, there is a difference this
year 16 teams are competing in a
tug-o-war contest, the first appearance
in 25 years. You may think this is
relatively unimportant, but there was a
day when Melbourne was the world
headquarters for tug-o’-war. On Jan-
uary 18 5 1892, there was the world
championship pull at the Exhibition
building. There were teams compet-
ing from Spain, Germany, Italy, Swe-
den, Wales, Scotland, Denmark, Eng-
land, Australia, Norway, France, Ire-
land and New Zealand. Over 10,000
crammed into the building and those
who were left outside tried to bash
the doors down. There were some
superb moustache-twitching, muscle-
tingling pulls that went on for over
45 minutes.
Ireland beat Australia in the final
and the local Irish patriots went crazy.
They threw umbrellas and hats in the
air and over a 1000 stormed the stage.
Ireland won another international
contest in 1899 but the real personal-
ities of the day were the famous an-
chor men, both 20 stone “Big
John” Noonan of Ireland, “The
Strongest Man In The World” and
“Mighty Tom” Herlihy, a Melburnian
sugar carter. Tom Herlihy used to
get himself in shape by pulling against
a draught horse.
course, there had to be a contest
between the two and the wagers
on the side were even bigger than for
the Tommy Burns-Jack Johnson
fight. Big John and Mighty Tom sat
on wooden cleats, and according to
reports, it was the longest, most ap-
palling pull in the history of the
sport. Eventually Big John, the Irish-
man, wore down Mighty Tom and
retained his title as world champion.
Noonan stayed in Australia and
worked for the Carlton Brewery. The
Brewery was the great patron of the
sport. Breweries looked after muscle-
men like a sporting goods firm looks
after tennis players.
Naturally he had the easiest job in
the Brewery, just walking round with
a can topping up the casks. You
wouldn’t want your champion to
strain his muscles.
So it is pleasing to report that in
the past few years there has been a
boom all over Victoria in tug-o’-war.
Most country towns have their teams
and at this year’s Royal Show they
are competing for a prize donated
by that ancient, august patron The
Carlton and United Breweries. If
enthusiasm grows perhaps we will
even see a world championship on the
MCG.
BATMAN


LATEC AND AFTER
THE INSPECTORS
"New era of Government-controlled investment"?
R. DOWNING
Taking the “enterprise” out
£5,800,000 was the total sum of the pub-
licised losses of the seven companies
and their subsidiaries recently declared by
the Governor, Sir Eric Woodward, under
the new uniform companies legislation.
It was made up of: Latec Investments
Ltd 1960-61 £1.4 million, 1961-62
£3.2 million; Commonwealth Land and
Investment Company Ltd and Com-
mercial Credit Corporation of Australia,
£800,000; New Investments Ltd, Denton
Subdivisions Ltd, Brunker Constructions
Pty Ltd, Macleay Timber Investments
Pty Ltd, losses of just under £400,000
referred to in an Equity Court hearing
earlier this year.
The number of subsidiary companies
involved will be one of the problems for
the Government-appointed inspectors to
unravel. For the last four companies
declared alone, it is believed that up to
30 could be involved.
The Government action has originated
through the Attorney-General acting on
the advice of a committee, which has
representatives of the Attorney-General’s
department, the police and the Registrar-
General working on it. Complaints from
members of the public and Parliament
have been referred to this committee
over a period.
Mr Downing, on advice, makes a
decision to recommend to the Governor-
in-Council that a certain company then
should be declared. The relevant section
of the Act says that the Governor must
be satisfied that a prima facie case has
been established, that for the protection
of the public, shareholders, creditors or
another widely defined group holding an
interest, it is desirable that the affairs of
the company should be investigated.
The inspectors when appointed can
call for documents, cross-examine
witnesses and if resisted can in the words
of the Act “punish the offender in the
same manner as if he had been guilty
of contempt of court.”
The extension of power of a semi-
judicial type to inspectors has passed
virtually without public discussion on
principles involved, even though the
19th century stalwarts of laissez-faire
must be revolving rapidly under their
marble tombstones.
It is typical of the New South Wales
Liberal Party that the only member to
raise principle was Mr H. D. Ahern, in
the Legislative Council, while in the
Lower House a Liberal member, Mr
Douig, had not hesitated to call for the
prosecution of one company director of
Latec, whom he named in the House.
Mr Ahern rose to refer to what he called
“the enthusiasm, with which the
Attorney-General has been applying the
declaration clauses of the new Com-
panies Act.”
Mr Ahern also wanted an assurance
from Mr Downing that the Government
was not taking New South Wales into
an era “of government-controlled in-
vestment, which can only result in
taking ‘the enterprise’ out of Tree enter-
prise’ to the disadvantage of development
in the State”. Whether or not this tone
was the best to adopt in the face of the
£5,800,000 losses might be questioned.
The inspectors for the companies were
appointed in three groups. The first
group, the partners of the O’Connell
Street firm of chartered accountants,
R. A. Irish and Co. Two of the
barristers appointed for the two other
groups of companies, Laurence Whistler
Street and Alan Frank Mason, are among
the leaders of the commercial and equity
bar. Street, son of the former Chief
Justice, Sir Kenneth Street, can be as
harsh in cross-examination as any prose-
cutor or criminal barrister in Sydney,
and Mason would be close to silk.
However, Mr Street’s talents as in-
terrogator will not be displayed publicly
as all the inquiries will be held in
camera. Already both Queensland and
Victoria have granted the inspectors
rights to carry out investigations in those
States (as they can under the Uniform
Companies Act).
The inspectors will report to the
Governor and their reports will have to
be tabled in Parliament. However, if
any criminal proceedings arise, the
tabling of the reports would be delayed,
so as not to prejudice any hearings.
LAW
"MISCHIEVOUS, WICKED
AND EVIL"
Rafferty's Rules
T ast week The Bulletin had a report
on Mr Bolte’s sad troubles with the
legal profession, how Mr Bolte had
accused the courts of being too lenient
with hooligans. There has been a fascin-
ating sequel. Mr Jack Galbally, the
Leader of the Opposition in the Legis-
lative Council, rose to the attack. Mr
Galbally is a famous barrister in Mel-
bourne, famous for many a criminal
case. Like his brother Frank he has a
gift for the dramatic and he has been
known as Melbourne’s Perry Mason.
He told the Legislative Council that
he did not know of another Government
in Victoria’s history which had aroused
the resentment and hostility of the whole
legal profession.
Undoubtedly this is a reference to a
fracas between Mr Bolte and the Bar
Council last year. When the Bar Coun-
cil attacked the Breathlayser Bill, Mr
Bolte to the horror of all lawyers, said:
“I believe the Bar Council is living in
the horse and buggy days. To me, their
opinion means nothing because I know
they have a vested interest in the matter.”
This time Mr Galbally described
Mr Bolte's attack as mischievous,
wicked and evil, another sad chapter in
a black episode of our political history.
Mr Galbally said no judge could be ex-
pected to weight the scales evenly if he
were expected also to anticipate the
desires of the Government of the day.
Where did Mr Bolte choose to reply
to this? He did the unpardonable thing.
He chose “another place”, to wit the
Legislative Assembly. According to
Standing Order 91, adopted on July 28,
1859: “No member shall allude to any
debate in the other House of Parliament,
or to any measure pending therein.”
This, of course dates back to 1641 when
Lord Peterborough complained about a
speech in the House of Commons which
referred to a debate in the House of
Lords.
Mr Boite started by saying: “Fancy
judges being championed by Mr. Gal-
bally. That just takes one’s breath
away.” There was uproar, hoots and all.


COONAWARRA ESTATE*
CLARET
ml/
raw
—a
PA
- 1 1 WW®“ vSR
r
fitiit m*
At wine tastings through-
out the Commonwealth,
this claret stands out as
being the most enjoyable,
distinctive and authentic
in style.
* “ Estate” (as the word “Chateau" in France)
Is used to distinguish this claret as being the
genuine product of the winegrower's own
vineyard.
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors:
CIIN S. WYNN & CO. PTY. LTD.
Mr Stoneham, Leader of the Opposition,
said he found it offensive.
Mr Lovegrove, another Labor man,
said he was profoundly shocked. “He
may not refer to another place or mem-
bers of another place.” Mr Bolte said:
“May I put it this way. I myself am
amazed that Mr Galbally should be the
champion of judges on this or any
occasion. He does on all occasions use
most extraordinary terms and adjectives”.
The Chairman of Committees then
came down fast and hard. Repeatedly
he called for order, and Mr Bolte added:
“All right. I’ll agree to take it easy.
The Opposition can’t take it. They can
dish it out here and in another place,
but being on the receiving end is another
matter.”
But perhaps the most charming
feature of the whole affair was that the
Chairman of Committees was Mr John
Rafferty, ML A.
So peace and order finally was estab-
lished in the Legislative Assembly by
Rafferty’s Rules. But the battle of Mr
Bolte versus the legal profession goes on
and it will provide some very useful
material for the letters to the editor
columns for weeks to come the sort
signed “Barrister, Hawthorn—name and
address supplied”.
QUEENSLAND
THE LIBERAL SPLIT
"An extraordinary outburst in bad taste"
T. HILEY
“Break Sir Roland’s grip”
pressures generating within
the ra. ks of Queensland's Liberal
Party machine are providing the Nicklin
coalition Government with still one more
electoral hazard. For several months
now there has been definite antagonism
between the State Executive and pro-
minent Liberal Parliamentarians, a situ-
ation which has its base ’ the traditional
clash between Queensland and Canberra.
Under newly appointed State president
Alan Hulme, former Supply Minister
who was defeated for Petrie in las': year’s
Federal debacle, the situation appears to
have worsened. Many Federal Liberals
believe the attacks on the Menzies-
McEv'en Government by State Parlia-
mentarians were responsible for a good
deal of the Government’s extraordinary
loss of votes last yea*-. In the case of
Mr Hulme, he was subjected to a “tor-
pedo” in the middle of a bitter campaign
by Country Party Mines Minister Ernie
Evans, who accused him of showing a
complete lack of interest in Queensland
affairs.
Last week saw State Liberal Treasurer
and Deputy Parliamentary Leader Tom
Hiley making national headlines with an
attack o-. Sir Roland Wilson, secretary
of the Federal Treasury. Mr Hiley,
addressing a Young Liberals’ rally, said
that action was needed tc break Sir
Roland’s grip on the sources of Australia’s
overseas loan borrowers. He claimed
that Australia was missing out on mil-
lions of pounds a year because of Sir
Roland’s insistence on channelling loan
approaches through one selected broker-
age firm in New York and another in
London.
The following day Mr Hulme made a
sensational personal attack on Mr Hiley.
He described Mr Hiley’s remarks as an
“extraordinary outburst in bad taste”,
and went on to sneer openly at Mr
Hiley’s failure to negotiate a World Bank
loan for Mt Isa. He also made the extra-
ordinary suggestion that if Queensland
had been treated badly by Canberra it
was possibly because of Mr Hiley’s in-
ability to present a sound case.
The Coalition Cabinc is understood
to have backed Mr Hiley to the hilt, par-
ticularly the Country Party majority
section (6 out of 11); but Cabinet also
persuaded Mr Hiley to refrain from a
counter-attack in the hope of preventing
a Liberal split within nine to ten months
of a State election.
Mr Hulme’s blistering attack on Mr
Hiley appears difficult to justify. After
all, Mr Hiley was not attacking the
Federal Liberal Party—he was exercising
his right to attack policies which he
claims are initiated by a top-ranking
public servant. Mr. Hulme’s approach
that this is in bad taste because public
servants cannot defend themselves cer-
tainly doesn’t register with Queensland
voters. After all, if that is the case, are
top public servants to be forever auto-
matically immune from criticism by
Parliamentarians?
State Executive antagonism towards
Mr Hiley crystallised in recent weeks
following Mr Hiley’s last-minute decision
to stand for the Deputy Leadership of
the Party, following the resignation of
Mr Morris. Background to this dates
from the surprise plebiscite decision
giving Liberal Party endorsement for the
blue-ribbon metropolitan seat of Clay-
field to Townsville businessman-grazier
and former MHR for Herbert, Mr John
Murray. It was generally accepted that
a “stooge” candidate for the Deputy
Leadership would be installed, prepared
to step down in favor of Mr Murray
once he was elected to Parliament.
Hiley’s decision to stand was generally
interpreted as a rebuke to the Executive,
and his comfortable victory rubbed salt
into the wound.
To find him triggering off a major
personal and political attack on his
Party’s Deputy Parliamentary Leader
within a matter of a week or so later has
supplied the ALP with some extremely
handy ammunition for the 1963 elec-
tions.
JOHN HIGGINS


QUEENSLAND-LABOR'S KEY TO CANBERRA?
By PETER KELLY
Catching up with the Victorians
To become the Federal Govern-
ment of Australia, the Australian
Labor Party has to win at least
two seats in Victoria. In the Federal elec-
tions last November, even with the
disadvantages accruing to a Government
holding office for over 11 years and
with the worst economic conditions since
the Depression, Labor could not win one
Victorian seat. The reason was pain-
ully obvious even to the most partisan
Labor supporter: the Democratic Labor
Party s preferences were sufficiently
soid to go to the Liberal candidates in
swing seats. The main reason for
th,s was because the Labor Party in Vic-
tona was little more than a Communist-
ront organisation run by ideologically
corrupt union bosses. Even uninterested
voters were beginning to realise this. .
ee T ctl ° ns hard-heads in
the Australian Labor Party came to the
conclusion that to become the Federal
jovernment something would have to
e done about getting rid of the Vic-
orian Executive. There are two ways
of doing this: first, by changing the Vic-
torian ooion delegates to the annual
Mate ALP June conference or by inter-
ention of the Federa Executive of the
an eff ° rt t 0 C 6an Up '
me first course was a long-term plan
requiring plenty of money and organisa-
ion, a task thought to be beyond the
present capabilities of those seeking a
ange. the second course was, on the
ace ’ ea . sier : _J he balance °f power
on tne federal Executive at the present
ime is, or most purposes, a deadlock
of six all. So, argued the hard-heads,
one of the left-wing delegates in one
of the States must be changed. And all
eyes turned to Queensland and the giant
Australian Workers’ Union which for
many years dominated Queensland’s poli-
tics. Here, they thought, lay Labor’s key
to Canberra.
Sitting comfortably, astride the Aus-
tralian Workers' Union in Queensland
is the State secretary, 51-year-old ex-
shearer, Cecil Wallace Edgar Williams.
Edgar Williams came to Queensland
from his home-town of Sydney in 1929
and shore wool for 14 years—mainly in
the West. In 1943 he became Western
District Organiser for the AWU in the
late Clarrie Fallon’s reign, and four
years later he had moved to Longreach
where he became Western District sec-
retary. He then graduated to the larger
Northern District (Townsville) sec-
tary’s job marking time for ten years.
He then took over the larger Southern
District secretary’s job on January 18,
1960. Four days later, when Mr “Joe”
Bukowski died, he took his place—that
of Queensland AWU secretary the
most important in Australia’s biggest
union.
Sitting in Brisbane’s Dunstan House,
at his enormous desk with a Nationalist
Chinese flag pinned on to the wall be-
hind him (acquired recently from the
mudguard of a Chinese Nationalist Gov-
ernment car placed at his disposal while
he was in Taiwan this year) he is ex-
tremely taciturn when it comes to talk-
ing about the AWU’s role in Queens-
land’s industrial and Labor Party poli-
tics. He will show you any number
of his color slides taken on his three-
month tour overseas, give you any num-
ber of newspaper cuttings to look at,
tell you what the red plastic rod pro-
truding from the telephone dial is for
(“Just made for them sheilas so they
won’t break their long finger-nails”), but
sits sphinx-like when any questions are
asked about Labor politics and his role
in them.
Ironically, the Labor Party’s key to
Canberra rests largely in the pocket of
the AWU. For it alone has the organi-
sational machinery necessary to replace
either of the two Queensland delegates
on the Federal Executive Mr Jim
Keefe, the Queensland State secretary
and Federal president, and Mr C.
“Knobby” Whiteside, State secretary of
the Federated Engine Drivers’ and Fire-
men’s Association and Queensland ALP
president. The irony is that it was the
AWU through Joe Bukowski which was
mainly responsible for bringing down
the Gair Labor Government in 1957.
Now people are looking to it to clean
up the ALP in that State and expect
it to give them the Federal Government.
After Bukowski had done his job, he
was expelled from the ALP in January,
1959, after the famous 1958 Christmas
party incident (Bukowski was alleged
to have used insulting words, slung
punches and so on —in fact the “inci-
dent” was pre-planned). The AWU im-
mediately disaffiliated, and the indus-
trial wing, centred in Brisbane’s Trades


and Labor Council, were left in supreme
control. After much manoeuvring the
AWU reaffiliated with the ALP in July
last year and since then there has been
an uneasy relationship between the
Trades Hall faction controlling the
Labor Party and the AWU. The sus-
picion from the Trades Hall lies in the
not unfounded belief that the AWU is
out to remove some of them from
power. Edgar Williams’s AWU is re-
sentful of the Trades Hall because the
Union believes, rightly, that the Trades
Hall is controlled by the Communist
Party and its influence extends through
the ALP.
Power of the industrial wing
Tt is impossible to understand Queens-
-*■ land Labor politics without knowing
the unusual structure of the ALP. The
supreme body of the Labor Party in
Queensland is the triennial Labor-in-
Politics Convention, always held some
months before a State election. (The
exception was 1957 when the Gair Gov-
ernment fell.) There are approximately
140 delegates to the Convention, 60 of
them coming from unions and one
from each of the 78 State electorates.
The industrial wing obviously has con-
trol of the union delegates and the battle
for the control of the Labor Party lies in
the triennial plebiscites held to elect the
78 Labor-in-Politics delegates. It is here
that the hard-heads look to the AWU to
change enough delegates to give it an
effective voice in Queensland and ALP
affairs.
There is nothing in any other Stat. of
Australia comparable with plebiscite
day, this year held on June 30. In some-
thing like the atmosphere of Tam-
many Hall, ALP members and members
of unions affiliated to the ALP trudge
along to the polling booths, sometimes in
churches, RSL halls, schools, or mem-
bers’ houses to vote. This year there
were arguments, fights, allegations of
improper voting, while AL" officers
toured the Brisbane city lectorates in
two-way radio cars prepared for any
emergency. Several plebiscites had to be
re-run because of irregularities.
If the political inclinations of success-
ful Labor-in-Politics Convention deleg-
ates are known it is possible to predict
which faction will control the Conven-
tion: this time to be held in Bundaberg
next February.
In several areas AWU officials were
beaten easily by unknown industrial can-
didates. This means that the industrial
wing will control the Bundaberg conven-
tion by about 80 votes to 50. Li ether
words, the AWU is beaten and the
Trades Hall completely controls the
Labor Party of Queensland.
Even if Edgar Williams denies he is
out to increase AWU influence in the
ALP the Communist knows better.
In May this year, a month before the
plebiscites, an anonymous three-page
roneoed circular was distributed around
the Trades Hall. It was headed: “Will the
ALP in Queensland survive the next con-
vention or will the AWU-NCC junta cap-
ture and destroy it? This authentic state-
ment may help honest, unsuspecting
plebiscite voters to decide.” The circular
was a scurrilous piece of smearing and
stated that the AWU intended to move a
vote of no confidence in the ALP State
secretary, Mr Keefe, and the organiser,
Mr T. Burns.
The logic of the circular is straight
Communist Party propaganda. “The
AWU has formed a new alliance and, on
this occasion, with the Santamaria-con-
trolled National Civic Council. Secret
talks,” etc., etc. It alleges that “AWU
organisers and officials have been in-
structed under penalty of expulsion, to
contest pre-selection ballots for the posi-
tions of delegates to the Labor in Politics
Convention.” It alleges that Mr Colin
Bennett, MLA for South Brisbane, is “an
ally of the AWU and the NCC” and
“with typical grouper cunning” and
many nastier epithets) Mr Bennett is
credited with planning the overthrow of
the present Trades Hall junta.
The upshot of this attack was an at-
tempt by the Queensland Central Ex-
ecutive to remove his endorsement. In
fact at one QCE meeting this was done,
but over the luncheon adjournment some
changed their minds and the motion was
recommitted and defeated in the after-
noon.
The chief reason was because some of
the shrewder QCE delegates realised
that if Bennett lost the endorsement, this
might result in ' Ir V. Gair, still a strong
figure in Queensland politics, regaining
his South Brisbane seat at the elections
next year. Mr Bennett is a well-known
Catholic and some delegates realised that
their action would be interpreted by the
voters as sectarianism. The man who
fought hardest for Bennett, surprisingly
enough, was the Queensland State sec-
retary of the Australian Railways Union,
and vice-president of the Queensland
Trades and Labor Council, Mr F. G.
Nolan.
In any case the “big-lie” technique in
the circular had been successful: it had
linked the AWU with the NCC and
covered up the strong Communist Party
link with the Queensland Central Ex-
ecutive.
The best way of understanding where
the ALP in Queensland stands today is
to take four of the leading personalities
in the party, Mr J. Egerton, Mr Frank
Nolan, Mr Alf Arnell, the man chosen
by the Trades Hall faction to fill the
vacant Senate seat in Queensland, and
Mr F. Waters.
“Call Me John!”
'C'ven though Edgar Williams is taci-
turn about the AWU relationship
with the Labor Party he makes no secret
of his dislike of Mr Jack (“Call me
John!”) Egerton, a member of the seven-
man inner executive of the QCE and
president of the Trades and Labor Coun-
cil. In a “Meet the Press” telecast on
June 3, in Brisbane, he said that he
didn’t think Mr Egerton “represented
the Trade Union movement,” “that he
was too far to the left, and couldn’t be
relied on to take a just interest and give
a just decision in many things.” When
asked if he regarded Egerton “as
an embarrassment to the ALP and its
chances of success at the elections,” Wil-
liams said: “I don’t think too many
people take that much notice of him.”
Egerton is indeed symptomatic of
the political trend in the Queensland
ALP. Like a number of prominent
Labor members in Queensland he came
to power by dutifully supporting those
who led the “Gair must go” campaign.
In the discussion on the three weeks’
leave issue at the fateful Labor-in-
Politics Convention at Mackay in Feb-
ruary, 1956, Egerton distinguished
himself in the debate by such gems as:
“I believe that the Premier, by his
speech today, makes it all the more
necessary for this Convention to indicate
in no uncertain manner which is the
governing body of the Labor Party. I
think there is much logic in what the
Premier said, but the time for logic has
disappeared.”
“We in the trades unions get around
amongst the workers . . . and I say
that they will decide when is the best time
to introduce the legislation.” Relying
more on rhetoric than reason he reached
a high point towards the end of his
speech when he said: “There is a nigger
in the woodpile somewhere. The Premier
asks us to be logical. The time for logic
has passed, and Parliamentary represent-
atives shall take direction.” This belief,
that Labor parliamentarians exist only
to serve trade unions, is today stronger
among the extremist element in Queens-
land than it was in 1956.
At the Trades and Labor Council elec-
tions a few months later he leaked the
information that the then president,
Communist G. M. Dawson, the secretary
of the Building Workers’ Industrial
Union, had agreed to stand down and
let him become president. Because the
news got out, Dawson was instructed


not to stand down, and Egerton had to
wait another year, much to his annoy-
ance.
The Trades and Labor Council elec-
tions on July 16, 1957, set the pattern
for the trends evident in the trade unions
in Queensland today. Dawson was in the
chair, and heard his own letter to the
Trades and Labor Council read out. The
official minutes of that meeting read:
“Correspondence from the president, G.
M. Dawson, intimating that in order that
the leadership of Council could be more
widely representative of the various
trends within the Labor movement, he
had decided not to accept nomination
for the position of president when nomin-
ations are taken at the meeting of July
10, 1957, as he considered that this
would be in the best interests of the
trades unions at this period of history.”
The unity avalanche
HThe members of the ALP swallowed
the unity line and Egerton became
the president, though not without first
making some revealing statements, sum-
marised in the same minutes. He told the
delegates that he had two ambitions: the
first was to become president of the
Labor Council “but under no circum-
stances would he ever consider
achieving that in opposition to Del. Daw-
son.” His second ambition, according to
the official minutes, “was to see a posi-
tion where all positions in the Labor
Council elections were unopposed and
that had been achieved tonight.”
“This indicated the extremely high
degree of unity amongst the trade
unions and their members, when the
leaders of the main ideas on Council
could work out such important propo-
sals as this and bring them to Council and
have them unanimously endorsed.”
Needless to say after such a speech all
the delegates rose and sang “For he’s a
jolly good fellow.” (It is well to remem-
ber that Communist Party member, Alex
McDonald, is in fact responsible for
writing the minutes.)
(In fact, for the next four years the
“share-the-leadership” racket worked so
well in the Trades Hall that each time
there were only 45 nominations for 45
positions.)
That was when the unity ticket aval-
anche in Queensland really began. Since
then Egerton has jumped whenever the
secretary of the Labor Council, Com-
munist Alex McDonald, has pulled the
strings. But now and then Egerton be-
comes flushed with success.
Last October, he clashed with Labor’s
Parliamentary leader, Mr J. Duggan. (Mr
Duggan was the only one of the Gair
Cabinet, who stayed with the Labor
Party when the Labor Government fell.)
At the annual Trades Union Congress,
Egerton attacked Duggan and accused
him of not coming near the Trades Hall
for 12 months. New delegates wouldn’t
know Mr Duggan, Egerton explained,
because “not only has he not been near
the Trades Hall since the last Congress,
but many of them have not the ability
to do the job they are asked to do. The
only chance we had of getting a good
type was while the AWU was not affili-
ated with the ALP.” In short, “I am not
happy about the co-operation between the
ALP and the Trades and Labor Council.”
This little outburst against Duggan end-
ed in Egerton’s biggest defeat chiefly
through the agency of the AWU’s Frank
Nolan. The QCE reprimanded Egerton
after the incident and he was told to
“toe the line”.
Intermittently off-side with most of
his comrades, Egerton always manages
to redeem himself by being the most
enthusiastic member of the Queensland
Peace Committee group in the Trades
Hall. When the Communist Party
organised their “Peace” cavalcade to
Canberra this year, Egerton decided not
to fellow travel with them but remained
behind and officially bade them fare-
well.
Nolan— the real power behind the throne
Tf Egerton is the ALP figure-head in
the Trades Hall, the real power
behind the scenes is Frank Nolan, a
member of the inner executive of the
QCE and vice-president of the Trades
and Labor Council.
Nolan slipped back into the ALP after
the “Gair must go” campaign suc-
ceeded and when the ARU reafffliated
in 1957. In 1959 he went on the cus-
tomary pilgrimage to Russia and
last year he travelled to Hungary where
he attended a 40-country transport con-
ference organised by the Communist
World Federation of Trade Unions. (In
15 years, Mr Nolan has visited Com-
munist countries three times.)
Last year, in the October 15 issue of
his “Railway Advocate”, Nolan wrote
an article entitled “My Overseas Visit.”
There are two photos of him, one
addressing the conference and one of
the Presidium of Conference showing
Comrade Nolan sitting with his Hun-
garian comrades. His article is the
usual propaganda. Discussing South
America, he tells his readers: “The
Pentagon has, in effect, created
American bases nearly everywhere in
these countries. This foreign occupation
for purposes of aggression constitutes
in itself a violation of national
sovereignty and is at the same time a
permanent menace to peace”.
But if any evidence were really needed /
of the Communist Party’s absolute con-L-
-trol of the Brisbane Trades Hall Council,
the official minutes of the meeting of
August 29 this year tells the story. In
the minutes, there is a report of a special
meeting of the Labor Council Executive
called “to discuss the ‘No more Hiro-
shimas’ rally, held on Sunday, August
5”. An extract from the minutes reads:
“That the Trades and Labor Council
congratulates the Queensland Peace
Committee and all who participated, for
their successful ‘No more Hiroshimas’
March. . .” After their official delegate
on the Cavalcade (Mr C. Ferguson from
the Communist-controlled BWIU) had
given his report, with all the appropriate
propaganda included, “the report was
received with acclamation and adopted”.
Not only were the ALP delegates clap-
ping the Communist-front Peace Com/
mittee’s Cavalcade but a copy of the
Peace Committee’s “Peace Light” was
attached to the official minutes and sent
around to affiliated unions.
Mr Nolan, along with his co-inner
executive member of the QCE, Mr
Egerton, is also an active “Peace”
partisan on behalf of the Communist
Party. Describing their Peace march
rally in Brisbane’s Centenary Park
“Peace Light” says: “Led by Frank
Nolan, Vice-President of Labor Coun-
cil, speakers gave Trade Union,
Pacifist, Christian, and Peace Com-
mittee viewpoints and were enthusi-
astically received by the audience.”
But if the Communist Party’s “Peace”
racket has compWNv seduced Mr Nolan
and the Labor Party members of the
Labor Council an examination of the
Executive of the Council reveals more.
Among the 90-odd delegates to the
Trades Hall there are at least 22 ALP
members, and of these 1 5 are members
of the Queensland ALP’s Central
Executive. But in the Trades Hall
Executive of 14 there are only nine ALP
members. The Communist Party has five
—out of all proportion to their number.
If further proof of unity domination
were required the fact that A. Mc-
Donald, the Communist Party secretary
of the Trades and Labor Council is
never opposed by Nolan or ALP mem-
bers for that position, nor for the key
position of delegate to the ACTU inter-
state executive, should be enough to
convince anyone of the complete sub-
servience of ALP members on the Trades
and Labor Council.
Unity Ticket Arnell
As expected, the unity ticket rash in
** Queensland is almost as widely
spread as in Victoria. The present ALP
candidate for the Senate vacancy caused


66
Who’s made the
Far-East
the delightfully
Not-so-Far-East
(to anyone anywhere „
in the world)?
W&n
6 *We have T 9
gsd
Did you know you can fly to Singapore, Bangkok, Hong
Kong and Tokyo at no additional flight cost on your
way to Rome and Europe by Alitalia? Ask your travel
agent. It’s the exciting Alitalia way to see the fabulous
Orient on your way to Europe . . . another superb
service by Alitalia Airlines . . . the sophisticated
experienced international airline. Flights leave Sydney
every Friday at 11.00 a.m. Rolls Royce Super DC-8
Jets, naturally.
Alitalia is in all of Italy . . . goes everywhere in the world.
Think!—Why travel the old way to Europe? Alitalia—
truly international in every respect, is world experienced
over 15 years to 44 countries, 100,000 miles of regular
air routes, linking Europe, Asia, U.S.A., Africa and
Australia, averaging over 21 million miles and over 1,000
flights per month, with 54 aircraft in world wide opera-
tion and over 7,000 employees. In fact, 369 million
passenger miles were flown last year on the Europe-
U.S.A. route alone. Sophisticated service, superb cuisine.
Rolls Royce Super DC-8 jets. Million-mile pilots. Cock-
tail lounge and art gallery. Weekly flight from Sydney,
11.00 a.m. Fridays. Only 30 hours to Rome with
immediate connections to London by the fantastic new
Caravelle Jets. Alitalia’s vast inter-Europe network to
all major centres. So go one better —go Alitalia.
Bookings at any travel agency, TAA General Sales Agents
or Alitalia.
fgs
AIRLINES
THE WINGED ARROW SERVICE TO 44 COUNTRIES’
BOOKINGS: ALL TRAVEL AGENTS, TAA GENERAL SALES AGENTS AND ALITALIA. SYDNEY: 177 ELIZABETH STREET, PHONE 61-89&-
MELBOURNE: PEARL ASSURANCE BLDG., 143 QUEEN STREET, PHONE 67-6865-6. BRISBANE; 183 EDWARD STREET, PHONE 31-219*
-- '
SYDNEY
ALITALIA IS IN ALL 0E ITALY W' . AND GOES EVERYWHERE IN THE WORLD
AAI3IZ-FJ»


by the death of Senator Max Poulter,
Mr Alf Arnell, is always on them. (He
was elected on them in 1957, ’5B, ’59,
’6O, ’6l, ’62 and his nickname around
the Trades Hall is “Unity” Arnell.)
Senate hopeful Arnell is the president
of the Queensland branch of the Water-
side Workers’ Federation.
Following the example set by Alf
Arnell the Amalgamated Meat Industry
Employees’ Union always runs unity
tickets. Taking 1960 as an example,
ALP members C. Maxwell, W. E. Mans-
field, R. Gillard, stood on a how-to-vote
ticket with Communists H. Field, S.
Nord, L. Davis. In fact the four largest
unions affiliated to the ALP are unity
ticket unions: the Meat Union (11,151),
the AEU (10,749), the Railways Union
(10,747), and the BWIU (10,500).
In 1960 the BWIU unity ticket had
Mr T. W. Chard, a member of the
Queensland Central Executive of the
ALP on the same how-to-vote as Com-
munist member and secretary of the
union, Mr G. M. Dawson. Mr Chard is
one of the five organisers of the union
—three of them are members of the
Communist Party.
Unity tickets don’t come in ones in
Queensland, they come in waves.
Even in the Transport Workers’ Union
(8634) election last year there was unity
between Eddie Brady, an ALP mem-
ber, standing for the industrial research
officer’s position and Ted Combey,
a member of the Communist Party
standing for the job of Brisbane sub-
branch secretary. Their joint how-to-vote
ticket included this wonderful sentence:
“Eddie Brady and Ted Combey are
strong supporters of Trade Union unity
and of peace.”
When I asked Jim Keefe about the
problem of unity tickets in Queensland,
he quoted Federal Labor Party policy
and denied that any problem existed in
Queensland. He lightly dismissed Arnell.
The tickets are so blatant that every-
one knows they exist (some of them are
even printed at the Communist Party’s
Coronation Printery) but none of the
controlling industrial faction of the
Queensland Central Executive bothers
to do anything about them. Occasionally
there is a half-hearted inquiry but
nothing ever happens to disturb the
peace.
Any enquiry must be doomed before
it starts because Egerton, Nolan, Arnell,
and plenty of other QCE members are
often the main offenders.
Waters—Sheepskins to Russia
Another prominent member of the
QCE worth looking at, is F. J.
Waters, the Queensland secretary of the
Amalgamated Postal Workers’ Union.
He is also chairman of the Trades and
Labor Councils’ “Hall Committee” and
a member of the QCE. Mr Waters had
been out of the ALP for 20 years before
he rejoined in the new unity wave in 1957.
In 1941, Waters was one of the
leaders in the Communist Party’s “Sheep-
skins for Russia” movement (formed in
fact to raise money for the Australian
Communist Party) and a member of
the Australian - Russian Association.
Sensing the changing atmosphere in ALP
circles he attempted to attend the 1956
Mackay Labor-in-Politics Convention.
But he was a little before his time. Even
though Mr Bukowski was leading the
“Gair Must Go” campaign he debarred
Waters from attending the Convention
even as an observer.
Waters was the prime mover in putting
the Communist Party’s Peace Com-
mittee in business in the Trades Hall and
in Labor Party circles. Organised by
Mrs N. Chalmers, the secretary of the
Peace Committee, Mr Waters chaired the
inaugural meeting of the Queensland
Peace Committee on March 15, 1960.
The Communist Party secretary of the
Trades and Labor Council, Mr Alex
McDonald, addressed the meeting
sharing the platform with Labor Party
members Waters and Chalmers.
Since then Mrs Chalmers and Mr
Waters have both attended Communist
international “Peace” gatherings in
Japan; both, of course, were guests of
the Chinese Government at some stage
of their tour.
Waters has just returned from
another jaunt and on Friday, September
7, the Trades and Labor Council held
a “welcome home” little party for him,
Mr Phil O’Brien, executive member of
the Waterside Workers’ Federation and
secretary of the Waterside Workers’
Federation Peace Committee, and Miss
Lee Buzacott, another peace-monger, all
of whom were guests of like-minded
peace doves in Communist countries.
But why go on? Stacks of evidence
exist to prove conclusively that the
Queensland ALP is effectively controlled
by the Communist Party through their
dominance of the Trades Hall and
through their “peace” organisation.
The “New Age”
When the AWU broke from the ALP
” after the Bukowski Christmas Party
affair, the QCE claimed that the AWU
was charging them too much rent for
the top floor of the union’s Dunstan
House. The QCE claimed it was paying
£2500 for the top floor, £lOOO a year for
other rooms, and some of the rent for
4KQ, the Labor Party’s radio station.
In the final rupture, the QCE got out
of Dunstan House and bought Invicta
House, almost diagonally opposite, for
£90,000. In the rather involved scuffle,
the AWU’s paper “The Worker” ceased
its role as the Labor Party’s official
paper and was replaced by the “New
Age.”
Today the “New Age” is an organ for
the industrial faction of the party. One
of the more interesting features of
the “New Age” is its regular overseas
comment written by Fabian Socialist,
Ken Kemshead. The articles are the
usual “I-hate-America” and “Aren't-
China - and - Russia - well - run - socia-
list-countries?” Here is what Mr Kems-
head says in this year’s March 7 issue:
“China’s other pillar of strength (the
first is “the socialist ideas, however dis-
torted, with which Peking is winning
leadership amongst the ex-colonial
peoples.”) is the communes. They are a
peculiarly Chinese development, an ex-
periment which Peking and not Moscow
has pioneered.”
The Queensland ALP is committed to
the belief that Cuba is a socialist—not
a Communist—country. In a broadcast
over their station 4KQ Brisbane, the
Labor Party said: “In the course of
three years, Cuba has become the first
genuine worker State in Latin America;
a pattern for others which will follow.”
A month later in the “New Age”
Kemshead echoed the broadcast and
said: “Using Cuba as an example, we
can state with confidence that here, in
the heart of Latin America, socialism is
more truly in the making than anywhere
else in the world.”
Contempt for branches
T>ight throughout the Labor Party the
story is virtually the same. With
people like Egerton, Nolan, Arnell, and
Waters doing the bidding of Communist
Party members at the Trades Hall, and
controlling the affairs of the Labor Party,
the Parliamentarians, the assets, and the
organs of propaganda, there is nothing
the ALP members can do at a branch
level to offset these effects. As in Vic-
toria, ALP branches are treated with con-
tempt—except when elections are on.
If the hard-heads in the ALP are
relying on the AWU once again
returning to power in the ALP they are
doomed to disappointment. If one of
the two Federal Executive members, J.
Keefe or G. Whiteside, are to be
removed from their positions, it won’t be
through Edgar Williams and , AWU —
no matter how hard he tries.
ALP members in other States are just
beginning to realise that the real reason
why Mr Keefe was elected as Federal
ALP president, and why he received
Victorian backing for the job was be-
cause the Federal presidency gives Jim
Keefe sufficient prestige to ensure his
election as Federal Executive delegate at
the Labor-in-Politics convention. The
other delegate, Mr Whiteside, of course,
is State president. The ALP in Queens-
land may be Labor’s key to Canberra —
but not for another four years at least.


OUT AND ABOUT
LIFE WITH FATHER
Running up an ideological flag
By MAX HARRIS
It is a rather strange situation that
Australia’s two most valuable art
prizes should come from an
American - Jewish cosmetics manufac-
turer (Helena Rubinstein) and an Italian
migrant engineer. Even though Aus-
tralian modern painting has attained
respected status in the international art
world, it has not diverted the patronage
of Australian business from golf,
football, and the “great outdoors” image
of Australia. For industry to patronise
art (or literature for that matter) has
something of an effete air about it.
This attitude dies hard, even in the
world of contemporary large-scale busi-
ness and public relations.
This is not so with Franco Belgiorno-
Nettis and Carlo Salteri, Italian migrants
of only 11 years’ standing. Their Trans-
field Art Prize of £lOOO cash was
launched a little over a year ago. It was
won last year by Cockburn, and this
year by Andrew Sibley.
The astonishing thing about Trans-
field’s decision to sponsor this prize is
that they have so little to gain from it in
conventional promotional. They sell no
product on the consumer market. Even
“image” is not a significant factor in
their business development; with giant
constructional companies, price, tenders,
and technical expertise are all that really
matter.
Why then are Belgiorno-Nettis and
Salteri, the joint managing directors of
Transfield Pty Ltd, throwing a large sum
of money away each year on modern
Australian painting? Snobbery? Ostenta-
tion? Taxation?
To understand this excursion into art
patronage, a rather unusual migrant
success story has to be recounted, a
story more in accord with United States
business legend than Australian.
Belgiorno-Nettis and Salteri have been
in Australia for 11 years. Both are
engineering graduates, from the Uni-
versities of Turin and Milan respectively.
They came to Australia as employees
attached to a number of special con-
struction projects, including the erection
of television towers. Some six years ago
they decided to set up in business on
their own. With £l5OO between them
they set about tendering for construc-
tional projects under the name of Trans-
field Pty Ltd.
What they achieved in less than six
years is remarkable even in the present
get-rich-quick conditions of Australia.
Today something like 1500 employees
are on their payroll: their projects in-
clude contracts with BHP, AIS, and
electricity authorities in all States
(transmission line engineering is one of
their major specialties). Current con-
tracts include the £2i million hydro-
electric scheme on the Barron River in
Queensland, and the £H million ex-
tensions to the Vales Point power station
in New South Wales. Erecting hundreds
of miles of high-tension lines, recon-
ditioning furnaces and smelters, building
electrical sub-stations and silos, fabricat-
ing 2000 tons of steel a month at their
40-acre plant at Seven Hills ... all these
things have created startling wealth for
the engineers from North Italy.
The skyline symbol of this wealth,
amassed without the aid of any outside
capital whatsoever, is the 11 -storey
Transfield House in North Sydney, a
building more remarkable for the
climate of its interior life than for its
outside aesthetic.
All these traditional symbols of busi-
ness power have come about through a
single simple factor: the use of Italian
migrant labor. People who employ
Italians as gardeners, for building stone
fences, for grubbing out trees, have
come to appreciate the laboring en-
thusiasm of the Italian worker. Few
Australian businesses either compre-
hended or appreciated the motivations
of these marvellous migrant workers.
Italian life is dominated by the family,
and even at work the Italian responds
to paternalistic authority. Transfield
employ a great preponderance of
migrants over whom Belgiorno - Nettis
and Salteri assume an authority which
is paternalistic and responsible.
A father-son relationship between boss
and worker seems a poisonous business
to the rank-and-file trade-union official,
and, in consequence, Transfield have had
their moderate share of union worries,
not on the basis of wages and conditions,
but on the basis of scarcely veiled
xenophobia on the part of some Aus-
tralian unionists. It is something of a
pity; for the Italian instinct to see life
as a series of family relationships cannot
be communicated easily to the Australian
with his own ingrained and worthy
egalitarianism.
This paternalism pervades Transfield
House, subduing even the monstrous
omnipresence of Musak echoing in the
lifts. Down in the basement car-park,
children play ball against the walls. Up
on the 11th floor, the presiding genius
of the cafeteria wrangles away happily
with the managing directer over whether
the late afternoon guests should be
offered Spumanti or cognac. The direc-
tors and the staff eat in the same big
roof-top cafeteria.
Franco Belgiorno-Nettis is a quiet,
solemn man, with nothing of the
ebullience of the meridionale about him.
He listens well and weighs things up
well. Although he works with a ferocious
Italian devotion, he runs little danger
of building up an impressive tycoon’s
ulcer. For he is also devoted to the
formal mannerliness of the cultivated
Italian. Hearty rotarianism seems as
foreign to him as the free bandying
around of Christian names. And if he
displays, with some pride, the balsa
model of the 70 square house he is build-
ing on the North Sydney waterfront, he
also points to the section of the house
which will be inhabited by the old
mother, and father.
But he is also an Italian of the new
breed, with a passion for that living and
inventive taste one associates with
“Domus”, the greatest of all the world’s
architectural and art periodicals. The
paternalism is of a modern kind, linked
with an intrinsic belief in what one
might describe as an “industrial culture”.
The typewriting firm of Olivetti probably
leads the world in its belief that industry
must be a self-contained cultural en-
vironment for employees . . . from
napkined dining tables to advertising lay-
out which approaches the work of art.
Fine hints of this peculiarly Italian
preoccupation strike the observer in a
variety of ways within Transfield House.
For one thing the managerial offices are
located on a lower floor; the view over
the Harbor is reserved for the 11th
floor restaurant. The coffee comes not
from an urn, but from an espresso
machine, and is served in small cups of
beautiful design. The whole interior
decor is dominated by considerations of


pure “Domus” design and function
rather than the usual conventions of
luxurious display.
Neither Belgiorno-Nettis nor Salteri
have any intimate interest in Australian
modern painting. It is doubtful if they
have ever made a habit of attending
exhibitions. They seek neither publicity
nor business advantage through the
inauguration of the Transfield Prize
which they offered in celebration of the
fifth birthday of their firm.
It must be as simple as the motive
Belgiorno-Nettis stated: having done so
well as migrants in a new country, they
felt like giving a little present back
again, so that people will know they
appreciate the success they have had.
In addition, and perhaps because of the
scale of their wealth, they feel Aus-
tralians even now resent the fact they
are Italians. It is a very ingenious motive
to have brought about Australia’s
richest art prize.
But, I believe it was their nature.
Whereas I normally contemplate the
business mind as a natural enemy, in
the case of these gentle Italians I feel
nothing of the mixture of envy and
contempt which the unbusinesslike
person feels towards the hard, un-
imaginative materialism of the tycoon.
I would be quite untinged with envy even
if Transfield went on to make astro-
nomical millions. This is because I am
an incurable Italophile at heart: but also
because Transfield have pioneered a
gimmick-free and authentic belief in the
culture of industry and the aesthetics of
the working environment. And the
Transfield Prize is simply a running up
of an ideological flag.
THE DOLL WHO
READS BOOKS
Sue Lyon: on her way to becoming a legend
By CHARLES HIGHAM
Going up to meet Sue Lyon, the 16-
year-old girl Stanley Kubrick cast
as Lolita, I expected a Nathanael
West starlet—vulnerable, nervous, ill-at-
ease about being so suddenly hoisted into
notoriety, probably the victim of a Show
Business mother and a soulless actors’
agent. She hadn’t, reports said, read a
word of the novel, didn’t know what a
nymphet was, and had only run into
Vladimir Nabokov once, at a party. One
could imagine her going through her
paces for Kubrick, gradually realising
the significance of her part, perhaps sur-
reptitiously reading the book behind the
covers of PoUyanna, then touring the
world reading with growing dismay the
comments on her role, and its meaning.
As I came into the room, she was
posing for a camera, cracking jokes, ad-
miring a reporter’s clan tie; the shot
over, she relaxed, elbows planted on
knees, mass of blonde hair falling for-
ward over her brow. Every movement
was, either by instinct or calculation,
Hollywood—from the slight grimace she
made as someone asked her to look at
her publicity woman for a two-shot to
the crisply uttered “Do” when I sug-
gested sitting next to her for the inter-
view. Her air was infinitely assured,
blase, disconcertingly poised: and one
could see what made Kubrick hire her
after only one test (the toenail-painting
scene) —she must have revealed at once
the 30-year-old, sophisticated mind both
in, and knowing how to use, the teenage,
pink and plump body. Her eyes, enor-
mous, round and blue, disclose nothing
of the clever brain behind them, yet the
use of a level, unwavering actress’s stare
leaves one in no doubt of the guiding
intelligence. And above all, she’s a star:
the neat parrying of questions, the air of
faintly supercilious amusement or bore-
dom at a question she’s heard a hun-
dred times before, the statement —fre-
quently repeated—-that everything during
the shooting went perfectly, the com-
pliments for Kubrick (“He’s so gentle”)
—all, in a way, quite perfect. She had,
she said, read bits of the novel; which
bits, she couldn’t remember. What did
she think of the character? “I felt sorry
for her. She was no insecure.” Hadn’t
she felt a slight nervousness at playing
the part? Her answer was carefully
timed. “Did you feel nervous reading
the book?”
“UCLA?” “No, Switzerland”.
VTo, she hadn’t worried for a moment
about playing with veterans like
James Mason, Peter Sellers and Shelley
Winters. There hadn’t been any back-
ground, before she made the film, of
show business struggle, of desperate ef-
forts made to land the role. Apart from
TV walk-ons, she’d had no acting ex-
perience, her agent had simply for-
warded her picture to Kubrick, and she’d
been called in soon after for the test.
She’d played it without a blemish, been
hired, gone through five months shoot-
ing without trouble of any kind, and
saw the film in London after being for-
bidden, because of her age, to see it in
New York. Yes, she was perfectly satis-
fied with her performance, credited it
graciously to Kubrick’s guidance, and
thought the film flawless.
Sue Lyon is obviously set for a Mar-
ilyn Monroe-like legend: the doll who
reads books. She likes Edn a St Vin-
cent Millay and T. S. Eliot, is enjoying
Irving Stone’s The Agony and the
Ecstasy, and is studying for University.
“UCLA?” She shook her head firmly.
“Switzerland”, she said.
The cool, level intelligence had made
itself clear; in a long talk, she’d shown
no cracking up of poise and presence,
and then, just as it was time to go,
another Sue Lyon emerged. Someone
showed her the evening papers, and
after reading one of them she slammed
it down on the settee. “Do I have to
put up with trash like this?” she said to
herself. Her eyes became more huge
and blue. Tears weren’t very far away.
“If I’ve got pimples on my chin, it’s
because reporters like him make me
very nervous.” She got up and paced
about the room, all fire and tempera-
ment, hands flapping at her sides, like a
young Bette Davis. “The Press in Lon-
don, they were snide, too! And under-
hand! I’m sorry to say this, because I’d
always admired the British, but there
was that woman! I’d given her an hour
and a quarter —and it was a good inter-
view I gave her —she was so sweet —and
then she wrote that terrible story about
me—she headlined it, ‘Every mother
should feel ashamed of Lolita’.” Now
the mask was off, she wasn’t just a
robot, and I suddenly warmed to her.
If she never plays another role, it will
be a pity, because though this Lolita is
no nymphet, she’s got the obsessive
quality that suggests a Crawford or a
Davis in the making.


PUTTING AUSTRALIA ON THE MAP
Or, A Conversation In Earl's Court
“TTi! Joan! Where are you? Oh
there you are.”
“Hi darling! What a terrible night.
And you’re sopping. John, you didn’t
get your hair cut as you promised.
Did you forget that we’ve got to go
out tonight to that awful pub you
found? It’s so cold too.”
“I hadn’t forgotten. Never mind.
Things could be worse. We could be
back in Australia with nothing to do
but sit on a beach like cabbages. God
when I think of the heat and the flies
and the ants. Not to mention the cul-
tural wasteland that goes with it.”
“What’s that you’ve got? A book?”
“No. September issue of ‘The Lon-
don Magazine’. It’s entirely devoted
to Australian writers. Quite a pro-
duction. Judith Wright, Randolph
Stow, Patrick White ...”
“PATRICK WHITE! Wonderful!
What’s he done?”
“Oh, one of those ruthless, percep-
tive Sarsaparilla things of his. God
he knows that Melbourne-Sydney
outer suburban awfulness.”
“You mean those crucifixions and
cases of infantile regression?”
“Joan! That’s trivial. Sometimes I
think you might never have left Aus-
tralia the way you go on.”
“Sorry. Who else?”
“Well there’s a wonderful intro-
duction by Charles Osborne. A beaut.
He tells one of the funniest stories I’ve
ever read about our sunburnt land.
Every Australian ought to be made to
read it and curl up inside. If he has an
inside. At his core the Australian is
culturally nothing. The whole ...”
“John, let’s not go through that
again. What is the story?”
“I’ll read it to you. ‘A senior mem-
ber of the staff of one of Australia’s
art galleries was recently sent to
Europe to acquaint himself with
European art. Touring the continent,
he spent a night in Amiens, and when
asked later what he thought of the
cathedral he admitted h hadn’t seen
it. “Didn’t know they had one
there” ’ . . .”
“Come to think of it we didn’t see
it either when we were there.”
“You know perfectly well why. We
got caught up with that Belgian sot
in a two-day hangover. Anyway we
spent an extra day at Tours to make
up for it.”
“Sorry dear. Just remarking. Go
on.”
“O.K. ‘Driving through Bavaria,
he didn’t venture inside a single
baroque church. ‘Don’t care for that
type of thing.’ But he approved of the
‘Sheilas’. He returned home to be-
come assistant director of his gallery.’
God, that’s superb. It’s so typical.
Wonder which gallery?”
“Wandabadgewong.”
“Wanda where? Joan are you hav-
ing a go at me?”
“Not really. But sometimes I
wonder. I just wondc
“Wonder about what? That story
rings true to me. Like that piece on
Australia by Murray Sayle in
‘Encounter’ a year or two back. You
remember. The one about our deso-
late, convict - ridden past . . . how
people are always turning up leg irons
in their backyards and that sort of
thing.”
“M’mm.”
“What do you mean ‘m’mm’?”
“Nothing. Any conversation pieces.
The sort of thing T like?”
“Yes, four skits by Alan Seymour.
He’s got a fantastic gift for dialogue.
The first is a conversation between
two girls on Manly Beach or Bondi
or somewhere. One of the girls has
just returned from Italy and is telling
the other girl how good it is. Then
she notices a lifesaver. You know one
of those awful bronzac types, all
muscles and no mind.
“She turns to the other and reckons
that he’d be deadly dull in bed. The
other agrees. Then they both agree
that he’s probably a sexual narcissist.
Then one says to the other that Aus-
tralian men can hardly wait after-
wards to get back to their club and
start hitting the grog again. You’d
have to read it to get the whole flavor.
But it’s so true. That’s what makes
the sketch so good. It’s the sort of
conversation you can tune in on by
the dozen any day on any beach
around Sydney. It’s so true it's not
funny.”
“Or it’s so funny it’s not true?”
“Joan you simply won't face facts
about Australia will you? That’s the
way the place is. Let’s face it. As
Seymour says in a note to the sketches
it’s high time someone explored the
theme of the connection between Aus-
tralian sexual naivete and cultural
poverty. The girl saw the link in a
flash. Are you laughing . . .?”
“No. Shivering. Go on.”
“Well the next skit is real Dad and
Dave stuff but clever. Two country
blokes watch two good sorts coming
through a paddock and decided to do
a line with them. Then they overhear
them talking about opera. Bloody
opera? Bloody nothing! So they give
them the go by. It really illustrates
the sort of vacuum, the cultural
nothingness, we live in at home. Don’t
y..u agree?”
“Certainly. But when we stayed
with the Wilsons in Cumberland I
didn’t think those farming people we
met were all that keen on opera.”
“That’s not the point and you know
it.”
“And those peasants who stole our
money in that village in Asturias.
Were they opera lovers? Perhaps they
stole the money so they could go to
the opera.”
“There you go again, deliberately
misunderstanding the point. As Sey-
mour explains it’s probably a bit
rough making Australians like that a
target for his heavy artillery but—”
“Then why do it?”
“Well as he says. For the sake of
roundness.”
“Oh.”
“What do you mean, ‘oh’?”
“Nothing. Anything else? I can
hardly wait to read the magazine.”
“A short story by Hal Porter.”
“Oh I like him. I must say I ad-
mired the way he got up at the Edin-
burgh Writers Conference and told all
those awful writers it was like living
in a nightmare listening to their sexual
neuroses and agonising personal con-
fidences that nobody wanted to hear.
What’s his story about?”
“It’s one of those tightly controlled,
disciplined stories he does so well —a
vivid and detailed account of how
when he was a boy he was seduced
by an older boy and . .”
“Oh hell. I give up.”
“Sorry you feel that way darling.
But you must admit it’s nice to see
things like this over here. Sort of puts
Australia on the map.”
Peter Hastings


London Newsletter
AUSTRALIAN WRITERS IN LONDON
Other than Patrick White few are known at all...
From JOHN DOUGLAS PRINGLE
Until now Australian writers have
failed to make the kind of impact
on Britain that Australian painters
have done. Sidney Nolan is probably the
best known painter in Britain after
Graham Sutherland and Francis Bacon.
Arthur Boyd and Charles Blackman are,
if not exactly household names, at least
useful ones to throw ; round at a cocktail
party. Quite a few people have heard of
Dobell and Drysdale, and the cognoscenti
can rattle off a few more abstruse names
like Whiteley, Fairweather and Juniper.
Moreover, the painters have had one ex-
hibition at the Whitechapel Gallery and
are going to have another at the Tate.
Critics have written articles about Aus-
tralian painting in magazines and re-
views. Thames and Hudson are going
to do Australian painting in their Stu-
dents Gallery series. One way and an-
other Australian painting has clearly
arrived.
For Australian writers the position is
very different. Almost the only Aus-
tralian writer really well known is Pat-
rick White, who is regarded with the
greatest respect. (It is freely whispered
that he is a certainty for the Nobel Prize
one day.) Ray Lawler's “Summer of the
Seventeenth Doll” is not yet totally for-
gotten though it's time he produced an-
other play over here if he doesn’t want
it to be. But otherwise no Australian
writer is well known and very few are
known at all. Neither Ray Mathew nor
Alan Seymour nor Randolph Stow has
broken through into the public’s con-
sciousness though all of them are on the
edge of doing so. (Since they are all
living in England at present they are
well placed to try.) Among the tiny
minority that reads poetry at all, the
poems of A. D. Hope and Judith Wright
are much admired if little read. The rest
are nowhere. (I can’t honestly include
Colin Mclnnes as an Australian writer
though no one has written better about
Australia,)
This month, however, there are a few
signs—like the first daffodils in an Eng-
lish spring—that a change may be com-
ing. “The London Magazine” devoted
its September number to Australian
literature and art, and on August 31
“the anonymous greasers of the Times
Literary Supplement”—l quote H. G.
Wells without necessarily approving him
■ —gave their main “front” article to a re-
view of H. M. Green’s “History of Aus-
tralian Literature” which was, in fact, a
fairly well informed discussion of the
contemporary Australian writers whom
Green left out. The choice of “The Lon-
don Magazine” may perhaps be explain-
ed by the fact that its assistant editor,
Charles Osborne, is himself an Austra-
lian, and its editor, Alan Ross, acquired
an interest in the country when he went
there to cover the Test Matches for the
London “Observer”. “The Times Literary
Supplement” on the other hand must
have been moved by an austere sense
of duty. To point the moral and adorn
the tale they also published a long let-
ter from the Professor of English at
Adelaide University (Professor Horne)
protesting at the total lack of academic
interest in Australian literature at Eng-
lish universities. A check of university
libraries had revealed that twenty of
these libraries contained hardly a single
work of or about Australian literature.
Professor Horne argued sadly that this,
like the Commonwealth Immigration
Act and the Common Market, was
simply another proof “of a shrinking
Britain, with all the term implies of
timidity, deterioration of spirit and abil-
ity to fit itself to the modern world”.
Dear, dear.
Australian writers should know by
now, however, that if they wish to be
known, it is not enough—indeed it is
hardly necessary for them to write
books or poetry. What they need is to
become performers, to exploit their per-
sonalities, tastes, sexual habits and neu-
roses for a public which is increasingly
greedy of such details. This was proved
by the astonishing International Writers’
Conference held this year in Edinburgh
during the Edinburgh Festival. Almost
all the reports agreed that, as a confer-
ence, it was an almost total disaster
Mary McCarthy remarked that it had
been “the highest scene of fantasy . . .
if I was writing a novel I'd have to
tone it down in the interests of credi-
bility” but day after day 2000 people
payed good money (minimum price 5/-
—in Edinburgh, too) to sit and listen
to the debates; and so successful was it
that there are already demands for a re-
peat performance next year.
Performance, of course, is the word.
The conference was meant to be a ser-
ious discussion of the technique of the
novel but from the beginning it was
plain that the assembled w'riters prefer-
red to give a series of brilliant solos. On
the first day Henry Miller said that as the
novel has been dead for 50 years, the
conference had better discuss something
else like painting. Mary McCarthy said
that only the national novel was dying,
like national States, but the English
novel had shrunk, the French novel was
a form of dress-making, and the Italian
novel a branch of the Italian cinema.
She recommended to the conference only
Nabokov, whose “Lolita” everyone has
read, and William Burrough’s “The
Naked Lunch”, which no one has read
because it is too obscene to be published
either in England or the United States.
(The only copies, printed in Paris, were
removed by the police before the con-
ference opened.)
There were witty speeches by Angus
Wilson and some others, but then the
debate broke down. A Dutch novelist
said he was a homosexual. Another
novelist said he took drugs. As Malcolm
Muggeridge, who gallantly tried to chair
some of the debates, wro'e afterwards:
“The Writers proved to be nature’s
Buchmanites. They longed to unburden
themselves publicly. They were moral
striptease artists only too ready to dis-
robe to their jock straps d beyond.
Homosexuals? —not half! Junkies?
you bet! Not Dame Rebecca’s rebukes,
• Cont’d on Page 22


s
%
fee.
v'
25?
M
*
lUOfl
>
4
CAN YOU WORK UNDER
PRESSURE... THINK CLEARL Y. ..
MAKE VITAL DECISIONS...
at 46% of your working efficienty?
Business doesn’t wait for the weather. But recent
American research laboratory studies proved that
your working efficiency drops 33% in 90° heat, and
a disturbing 54% in 95° heat. Can you afford to
work at 46% of your normal efficiency—sometimes
for days on end?
Air Conditioning is the Proved and
Economical Answer.
In summer air conditioning maintains the correct
temperature for maximum working efficiency —and
this need not mean installing a full central air condi-
tioning plant. Westinghouse Room Air Conditioners
are particularly suitable for management and execu-
tive offices, combining as they do high performance
with low purchase price and operating cost. And in
winter, they provide warm fresh air—the healthiest
heat of all—at half the operating cost of other
electrical heating appliances.
There are three models, from
8,300 to 20,000 B.T.U.’s
including the Mobilaires
which can be installed
permanently in one place,
or wheeled from office
to office as needed.
Price from 215 Gns.
Enjoy Westinghouse
refrigerated room
air conditioning in
your home, too!
you cam be SURE ..if rri
Westin^housc
ROOM AIR CONDITIONERS il#I)
Mail the coupon today for full details.
To: Department R.A.C., Email Limited, Consumer Products
Division, Box 4, Waterloo, N.S.W.
Please send me literature and full particulars on Westing-
house Room Air Conditioners.
NAME
ADDRESS
PHONE No
PLACE X IN SQUARE IF FOR SCHOOL PROJECT.
WAC9.FP


LONDON NEWSLETTER from P. 20
nor good old bearded and turbaned
Khushwant Singh’s admonitions, sufficed
to hold back the true tide of self-revela-
tion. It might be true, as Khushwant
said, that in India they’re up against
bigger problems than nymphets and
queers, or as Hugh McDiarmid right-
eously insisted, that in Scotland life is
more than lesbians; on the stage of the
sedate McEwan Hall, the phallus rather
than the gross national product reigned
supreme.”
I do not want to bore you with a
detailed account of the conference
the second day, devoted to Scottish
writing, ended up in a fight (verbal) be-
tween the speakers until the platform
was finally taken over by nuclear dis-
armers from Glasgow singing anti-Pola-
ris songs—but merely to suggest that
perhaps Australian writers have a lot
to learn in the art of putting themselves
over.
The only Australian invited was Mr
Hal Porter, a sophisticated and elegant
writer whom I admire but who is—or
was until ten days ago—totally unknown
in this country. During the first day’s
debate—the only reasonably coherent
one—he made a disastrous intervention.
Whether genuinely puzzled or, as I sus-
pect, merely putting on the well-known
A , ralian act of the wild, colonial boy,
he got up and expressed his “Unedu-
cated bewilderment” at what he had
heard. It was all too clever by half.
“The poor confused barbarians in Aus-
tralia” (his own words) considered a
writer’s job to be simply to write what
he saw. He added that he had been de-
pressed to find that many of the people
who wrote like angels, talked like com-
mercial travellers.
This speech had a great reception
among the audience who clearly felt as
bewildered as Mr Porter. In the ensu-
ing hush the “Guardian” reporter heard
an enthusiastic matron saying: “He’s a
genuine primitive. I could gobble him
up.” This was followed by loud applause,
but the writers plainly thought he was a
Philistine, and Simon Raven, writing in
“The Spectator”, described Mr Porter as
“looking like a discredited ex-officer of
the RAOC” and his speech as “contemp-
tible”. Perhaps if they had read his
short story in “The London Magazine”,
describing vividly and in unusual detail
his seduction as a boy by an elder boy,
the writers might have thought differ-
ently. There’s nothing like sex to
broaden the mind.
Seriously, however, 1 believe that Mr
Porter missed his opportunity. He
could have intervened effectively in the
debate on censorship. (Australian writ-
ers have plenty of experience of that.)
He could have made an important con-
tribution to the debate between national-
ism and internationalism in the novel,
where again Australian writers (like
Australian painters) should have some-
thing important to say. To appear in
the old and not very convincing role
of the simple colonial baffled by clever
foreigners may have been a good joke
but was a waste of time.
Perhaps Australian writers need a
leader over here to show the way and
win a hearing for them as Sidney Nolan
did for the painters. Perhaps Patrick
White will come over when his plays
are produced in London as they surely
should be. Perhaps, Oxford or Cam-
bridge will invite A. D. Hope or James
McAuley to deliver a series of lectures,
Perhaps Randolph Stow’s next novel or
Ray Mathew’s next play will be a smash
hit. In the meantime Russell Braddon,
the dean—if that is the word—of Aus-
tralian writer in London, is filling in by
writing the memoirs of Jo n Sutherland
in the “Sunday Times”. 77ia/'ll show
’em!
★ ★ ★
. , ... ~ ,
have traditionally been
~ suspicious of pretentiousness . .
which make(s) Australians chary of cul-
ture-vultures. The list of charges against
Australian art, theatre and ballet dilet-
1S a lo . n S °2 e , Mu ? ho } 311 haS
been ex P elled in fi § htin § for the cause ’
the affec ! ed Ca "' °J 50 many cu ? tur . al d °;
B°° ders has ? ut off more A than ‘ he honeBt
P hll,stins 7 But many Amtralla,ls . « h °
despise these pretensions ay net without
pretensions o eir owe o e goo
1e ’ 0 omg superior o eca en uro
peans an c e..p a ing mericans an
disease ridden Asians and practically
everybody. To these « cannot be said
to ° ° f ' e " , and 100 “ um y: ,. L ! elB v not
f od that „ ,s 80 pr< ? udly You
know well enough about ,T our nation s
f , , a . ~ / , .
famous dead centre; what about your
own?” J
[Alan Seymour in The London Maga-
z.ine which is reviewed on page 19.]
Feiffer
mr i first
FELL lI J Love
mn ms
youn non-
COUFOdUITU-
youfL comhpt
for rue
MATERIAL
VALUES OF
society.
MAT 1 FIRST
FELL /M LOVE
WITH iOAS
HOUR CAM- .
HOUR ABILITY
To MAKE
everh
EMtß6eucy
seen almost
NORMAL - '
meo D 6 first
MARRigp l
loved hour
refusal to
SURmOER .
TO THE A
MOB-
youß
pußity
OF
MOTIVATION.
ix)H£M m FIRST
HARRIS 1
LOVED WUR
semin
for m
mu it
f\HMEV My
DOUBTS-
STRSR6T \\mV
ME N MOMENTS
of ccnFusw w-
m after
HERBERT'S
BIRTH W
CRAN6ED-
you became
SELFISH '
nnreliable-
m mefz
yemms birth
you ameo-
you 8 eCAHU
COOL - HOU
became
removed -
w refdsfp to
FAC6 THE FACTS
OF LIFE. MOU
IfJSISTEP ON '
6FIW6 OUF Of
STEP TUST
FOP THE SAKE
OF EBIUG
noticed I
you [me
ALOOF -
wo LON6ER
Tim
meu i
needed
you-
you leimeo
OUR NEEDS.
Mwom
ELSE HAP
A UIC£
HOME.
WE
DIDN'T.
you
BECAME
HARD-
am
Tt/fftX
OH. I lovgp
That fa m
7-huy your
my pip
you me
TO SPOIL
IT AMP 1
CHANGE r
how i com
tote Hou A6AIIJ
IF MOM WERE FUST
S£R£N£ LIKE /M
THE Dtp QMS


MOTORING
BIG RANGE BETWEEN
£1200 AND £1700
For those not "fiddling" the books ...
By BOADICEA
T)ossibly the most difficult decision re-
garding what car to buy falls to the
man willing to spend between £l2OO
and £l7OO. He is loosely termed an
upper-middle-class type, often a profes-
sional man, clergyman, small company
owner or farmer who can afford some-
thing better than the average motorist
well-catered for by the better small cars
and the light six-cylinder range. As this
sort of buyer is spending in most cases
his own money and not “fiddling” a car
through his books; he shops as diligently
as the small car buyer but has an even
more bewildering array to choose from.
If you include automatic and standard
transmission versions there are more than
24 cars of varying appeal between
£ 1200 and £ 1700. I shan’t confuse the
issue further by including sports cars or
coupes which are a study in themselves.
For those seeking the security of the
popular big seller the choice lies be-
tween Holden’s luxury Premier and
Ford’s glamorous Futura. The Futura
is some £5O cheaper because it doesn’t
carry the Premier’s impressive list of ac-
cessories. Because our buyer will want
long-wearing qualities, he is likely to
favour the more robust Holden.
Chrysler’s Valiant has a growing ap-
peal for it offers the most power for the
least money. At £1385 with automatic
transmission, the Valiant is good value
considering the performa. ..e which calls
for skilled handling, particularly on wet
roads if you fancy yourself as an ace.
B.M.C.’s Wolseley 24/80, the Freeway’s
more refined twin, is top value in the
English-type range. Sturdy, a good top
gear puller and fitted out in leather with
many accessories, the price of £1225
is very fair.
Australian Motor Industries have their
faithful if rather homely-looking Van-
guard at £l2BB and the Estate car at
£ 1454 definitely two of the most
fully-equipped vehicles for the money
and silky to drive with six smooth cylin-
ders and four-speed floor change gear
box, the Vanguards repay closer exami-
nation for those interested in long life
and not exterior looks.
Another car of this type is the highly
regarded Peugeot 403, the “special”
version of which costs £1247. Almost in
the everlasting class, the 403 has superior
suspension, braking and steering and a
thrifty French capacity to get the last
drop out of a gallon.
Another French cr. of entirely differ-
ent concept is the very advanced Citroen.
This is the car for the enthusiastic
motorist who revels in intricacy and de-
lights in the special kind of motoring that
Citroen affords. Untroubled by bad
roads, secured by disc brakes you either
love it or hate it at £1570. Among the
cognoscenti the Citroen has its support-
ers yet it was surprir'ng to read that a
motoring writer favoured Citroen to win
Australia’s longest production car race
against far more powerful cars.
Along with France’s Peugeot and
Citroen should be considered Sweden’s
Volvo and Italy’s Fiats. The Volvo suffers
in Australia because it is almost unknown
and at £1698 is way above other four-
cylinder family saloons. Nevertheless,
for those who don’t want their money
advertised by the purchase of an osten-
tatious car, then Volvo, even at the price,
is a good buy.
The scrupulous Swedes
fTtHE Swedes build their cars as they
-*■ do their women —robustly. No com-
parable car is as painstakingly made or
as scrupluously finished and safety and
performance are both outstanding. Mel-
bourne is the centre of the Volvo in
Australia and it is hoped a strong organi-
sation will back the car throughout the
states. Volvo’s greatest rival in this coun-
try is the fast six-cylinder disc braked
luxurious Fiat 2300 which is remarkably
well-priced at £1697. Somewhat angular
in appearance but containing all the ac-
cessories with the exception of a radio the
2300 appeals to many Australians judg-
ing by the numbers one sees around.
Better handling particularly in the rear
end department would attract the en-
thusiast as well as the layman. How-
ever, the enthusiast goes for the high
performance li litre Fiat “tipo mil-
lecinquecento” or more simply “1500”.
This fine 4 seater touring car sells at
£1295 and offers about the best com-
bination of sporting-cum-luxury-family-
motoring available at a reasonable price
in the world today. Only the lack of a
good Australia-wide organisation for ser-
vice and spares handicaps Fiat. The size
of the market here decided Fiat to re-
turn to Italy and leave distribution in
the hands of a local company. The 1500’s
only rival at present is the delightful
VX 4/90 Vauxhall, luckily for Fiat ham-
strung by G.M.-H’s apparent reluctance
to supply even a fraction of the demand
and a difference in price of nearly £lOO
when a heater is fitted to the local
assembly job. This Vauxhall at £1330
without a heater bids fair to capture
that band of motorists which clings to
its decaying M.G. Magnettes because
there is nothing, in its eyes, to replace
them. Vauxhall have two larger models,
the Velox with automatic transmission
at £1444 or at £1319 with manual
three speed transmission and the more
luxurious Cresta at £1515. Good-look-
ing, pleasant to handle and with some
of the longest legs on the open road, the
Vauxhalls give American style motoring
at a saving in both size and pocket.
English-style motoring is supplied by
Rootes with their automatic Super Minx
a 1 £1239, a medium-sized sober family
car fully equipped and suffi iently bright
in performance. Rootes also have their
Rapier - fully imported sports saloon
costing £1477 and the convertible
version at £1565. Like Volvo, the
Rapiers are little known to Australians
who would like them. Ford have a second
barrel to their gun in this price range
the English Ford. Generally r< :d as the
pick of the Fords, this powerful six-
cylinder, known as the Zephyr Mark 111,
looks like being in fairly short supply
while the accent is on the “Taut Trim
Terrific Falcons”.
At £1369 for standard transmission
and £l5OO with automatic the Zephyrs
have the aid of front disc brakes and
four speed gear boxes. Heating and de-
misting are extra.
Finally the biggest and most powerful
of this group: the Studebaker Lark in
standard form for £1645 offering big
car motoring with attendant big car costs
the Lark is behind on delivery schedule.
For the countryman the Lark has the
space and the pace and by unashamedly
copying from its associate Mercedes
Benz, the Lark is acquiring some grace.


OVERSEAS
COMMUNISM AND
LATIN AMERICA
2 —Meeting The Challenge
From J. HALCRO FERGUSON
The Cuban military threat to the
Western Hemisphere has been
much exaggerated in the United
States, but the ideological challenge pre-
sented by Cuba is a very real one. To
millions of underprivileged Latin Ameri-
cans Fidel Castro represents a viable, and
exportable, alternative to their present
unsatisfactory situation.
The fact that the original Fidelista
movement has now become involved in
the international Communist movement
is, to many of them, neither here nor
there. Nor are they unduly impressed
by articles in the Press saying that
Cubans are now suffering from'shortages
, , ,
and rationing: these are discounted as
+ . , 6 , *
emanating from US news-agene.es, and
anyway make little impact upon people
like the Peruvian and Brazilian peasants,
, , . , ~ , ,
or the shanty-town dwellers round the
big cities, who could hardly be worse
off than they are.
J
President Kennedy obviously had this
in mind when he launched the Alliance
for Progress in March 1961. He saw
that the appeal of Fidelismo and/or
Communism could only be countered by
concrete facts, notably a higher stan-
dard of living in the non-Communist
Latin American countries, and an end
to the privileges of the ruling groups.
The President therefore got Congress
to authorise the appropriation of $5OO
million for Latin countries which would
undertake the necessary reforms.
The Alliance has run up against seve-
ral snags. In many countries the ruling
group is reluctant to initiate schemes
which could undermine their own posi-
tions (though not so much as Castro
would undermine it, given the chance).
Many left-wingers who approve of the
reforms are suspicious of any initiative
from the United States, and in this they
are j°' ne d by local nationalists.
mos t °f the aboitive invasion
C L| h a > supported by the US Govern-
ment and comm S a after the
? n " OUnCe ” ent ° f ‘!> e All,an “- made “
look as though the programme was
< ~ . , ... .
merely a move in the Cold War, and in
no motivated b concern for the
le of Latin AnleHca
An .■ , ,
All this, in a negative way, has been
. .
°- ad " anta «= ,0 the Communists, par-
tlcularly as f they can now cash > n °? the
mystique of Fidelismo instead of ap-
pearing as austere, doctrinaire and above
all foreign. This mystique is undoubt-
edly of inestimable value: in every Latin
American country from poverty-stricken
Negro Haiti to ' welfare-state Uruguay
one meets people who describe them-
selves as Fidelistas and, particularly
among the youth, they are not con-
fined to the working classes.
In some countries this appeal is a
good deal less than in others. The
Mexicans, having had their own revo-
lution, are inclined to be a little patron-
ising about other people’s, and in any
case feel they must be accommodating
to the neighboring United States in the
same way the Poles feel it necessary to
keep in with the Soviet Union. Never-
theless, it is significant that one of
Mexico’s most respected eider states-
men, General Lazaro Cardenas, is an
outspoken supporter of the Cuban
regime.
Bolivia has also been partially inocu-
lated by its own revolution in 1952,
when the Nationalist Revolutionary
Movement, supported by the intelligent-
sia, the urban workers and the tin min-
ers, overthrew the old oligarchy for
good. It has since begun to win over
the allegiance of the dispossessed Indian
peasantry who make up the bulk of the
population, living on the bleak Altiplano
13,000 feet above the sea.
The Bolivian Revolution, unlike the
Cuban, was welcomed by the United
States —according to cynics because the
former tin barons who controlled the
country’s economy were Bolivians and
not US citizens. However this may be,
between 1953 and 1959, Bolivia re-
ceived $24 million in aid and loans
from the US, and is now receiving de-
velopment grants under the so-called
Operacion Triangulo from the US Gov-
ernment, the German Federal Repub-
lic, and the Inter-American Develop-
ment Bank. At the same time the
nationalist nature of the Bolivian Revo-
lution reduces the attraction of Castro
and Communism, though a section of
the trades union movement has Com-
munist sympathies.
In Argentina the mystique of Fidel
Castro is overshadowed by that of Juan
Peron. How far this will continue to
be the case while Peron sits comfort-
ably in Madrid it is hard to say: the
Peronistas are opportunists and might
well team up with Fidelismo if it suited
their book. As it is they have made tac-
tical alliances with the local Communist
Party in their common opposition to the
present quasi-military regime and the
Government of President Frondizi be-
fore it. More importantly perhaps, many
Argentines are less disgruntled with the
Communists than they are with the
other traditional parties.
Of the large Latin countries, Brazil is
undoubtedly the one most likely to come
under strong Communist/Fidelista influ-
ence. The political stalemate, which
followed the abrupt resignation of Presi-
dent Janio Quadros in August 1961,
has meant that the Federal Government
has been in no position to mtroduce the
controversial legislation necessary to
cope with the appalling social conditions
of the peasants in the North-east, and
the urban inhabitants of the shanty
towns. The Alliance for Progress has


Estab'ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS.ON £
05U1.1.1 V'v\i
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & C*.
Printers, Papei Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS <fc OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANU EACTURERS
CARTON MANUF A CTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS •: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS &r OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
OnHr
Always ask for
AINSLIE’S
SCOTCH WHISKY
AGENTS:
Pitt, Son & Badgery Ltd., Sydney
Halloran Manton Pty. Ltd.
HELP
LEGACY
all the year round.
Donations: 169 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney. BM 2001. V
recognised this, to the extent of start-
ing to deal direct with individual State
Governments.
The question is whether it is not al-
ready too late. The countryfolk from
the extreme North-east to the State of
Rio de Janeiro have banded themselves
into Peasant Leagues, led by a young
lawyer, Francisco Juliao, who has visited
both Cuba and Communist China, and
approves of both. The Leagues are mili-
tant, have already taken over some pro-
perties, and are said to have Cuban and
Chinese handbooks on guerilla warfare.
Peru is another explosive area. While
its coastal region is multi-racial, with a
large middle class and a 20th century
way of life, the Highlands are still as
feudal as they were in colonial times,
and as Bolivia was before 1952. Earlier
this year an inconclusive election looked
like resulting in the leftist, but non-
Communist, APRA party gaining effec-
tive power, so it was promptly annulled
by an Army coup. This kind of right-
wing irresponsibility, coupled with the
apparent inability of the non-Communist
left to counter it, is more likely to turn
people to Communism than anything
else.
Neighboring Chile has, unlike Peru,
enjoyed constitutional Government for
many years, and iN Army refrains from
political activity, but here again the
eeonomic imbalance between rich and
poor favors the Communists, as does a
political system which results in every
Government being a virtual coalition,
unable to act decisively enough to cure
the country’s ills. The Communist
Party is strong in the desert-girt copper
mines and in the urban slums, weakest
in the smiling countryside around
Santiago.
Economic imbalance is more marked
still in Venezuela, despite the wealth
brought by the oil wells and the exist-
ence of a Social Democratic Govern-
ment headed by the capable Romulo
Betancourt. The dictatorship of Perez
Jimenez, overthrown in 1958, held back
the progress of Venezuela for 10 years
(apart from the building of “prestige”
highways and skyscrapers), and the pre-
sent Government moves too slowly for
its critics, who have made several at-
tempts to overthrow it by force and re-
place it with a Cuban system.
The answer to the Communist chal-
lenge in most of these countries is not
so much the Alliance for Progress but
the acceptance by the ruling classes
that change is inevitable: if they do not
accept it, it will come anyway, and in
a form they will not like. The Com-
munists bank on their non-acceptance.
UGANDA UNLIMITED
"...a glittering, equatorial slum?"
From GORDON MACLEAN in Kampala
Things are happening so fast in
A Uganda—a piece of Est Africa as
big as Michigan State and little larger
than the United Kingdom—that history
is tripping over its own bootlaces.
The country only recently celebrated
the centenary of British explorer John
Hanning Speke’s discovery of the source
of the Nile at what is now the industrial
centre of Jinja; British influence was not
established there until 1894. Until 1925
education was entirely in tin hands of
missionary societies. Now they have pul-
led down the King George V memorial
statue outside Kampala’s swank Imperial
Hotel to make way for the ne v Indepen-
dence Statue—an African mother hold-
ing a child in her arms to represent the
birth of the new independent EJganda
nation on October 9.
Bonfires lighted at midnight will be
the signal for hoisting the country’s new
black, red and gold flag. Then the band
of the Uganda Rifles will play a new
national anthem, announcing to the
world the emergence of Africa’s thirty-
third sovereign State.
Yet among Uganda’s six and a half
million people there is a deep conflict of
emotion. Many owe allegiance first and
foremost to one or other of the four
feudal monarchies of Buganda, Bunyoro,
Toro or Ankole. They are still unable
to grasp the basic concept of nationalism
or Uganda nationhood. And in the
palaces of the four kingdoms, there is
growing suspicion that the democratic
ideals and policies of popular govern-
ment will topple the monarchs from their
ornately-carved thrones.
So what is in store for this land of
cotton, coffee and copper which Sir Win-
ston Churchill once des.ribed as a
“glittering Equatorial slum”?
Uganda is a black man’s country on
the edge if the “white belt” of multi-
racial societies stretching from Kenya
through Central to Southern Africa. Re-
sponsibility for its immediate future lies
in the hands of a dapper, 40-year-o!d
Lango tribesman who once herded goats
near the sluggish White Nile.
He is named Milton Apollo Obote,
who says “I’d rather have Milton’s brains
than Apollo’s good looks.” He is Prime
Minister and leader of the ruling Uganda
Peoples’ Congress. He calls himself a
“quiet revolutionary.” No monkey skins


INSTANT ENGINE STARTING
WITH—
dfg
if
Avoid unnecessary engine
wear—just one quick spray
into the air intake is all
that's required. Saves money
by avoiding cylinder scour-
ing and gives longer battery
and starter life. Contains
anti-corrosive and anti-knock
additives with upper
cylinder lubricant.
Proven the world over and endorsed
by Rolls Royce.
Less than 2d. per start—Aerostart is available at only 21/6 from all garages and stores
Manufactured by:
AEROSTART (ANZIA) PTY. LTD.
2 Queens Road, Melbourne. 26-4653
and terrorist tactics for him. He is
impeccably dressed and sports a heavy
Malacca cane. He entered the political
arena late and used a back entrance.
Most of his early experience was
garnered in the malevolent maelstrom
which was Kenya during the Mau Mau
emergency.
There Obote worked az a laborer, but
in his spare time he carved a niche for
himself in the political organisation
which Jomo Kenyatta created. Later he
worked with Tom Mboya. When he
decided to return to Uganda in 1957, it
was as a full-time politician, a thing un-
known among the coterie of Kampala
and Mengo intellectuals who looked on
politics as a pleasant diversion, not as
a career.
The “stranger from Kenya” set his
mind to the job. He was elected to the
Legislative Council, and then became
leader of the Opposition which duly
swept Benedict Kiwanuka’s Democrats
from power early this year. All this
he iccomplished from scratch in five
years.
The Premiership of Uganda, which Mr
Obote assumed last April, is a job that
appeals to his tidy, methodical mind.
But he will have to draw heavily on his
reserves of shrewdness, versatility and
political opportunism if he is to weld the
country into a single, cohesive unit.
Uganda has reached the threshold of
independence with a burden of aristo-
cratic privilege on its back. The new
British High Commissioner in Kampala,
Mr David Hunt, once worked in the
Commonwealth Relations Office in Lon-
don, and it was he who advised Mr
Harold Macmillan when the British
Prime Minister made his famous “wind
of change” speech in Capetown in 1960.
But in this part of Africa, and in spite
of Uganda’s rapid advance to nation-
hood, the wind of change often seems to
have dropped to a faint breeze.
While Mr Obote is Uganda’s chief
minister, what he says does not neces-
sarily go—certainly not in the four king-
doms, where hereditary rulers are the
local bosses. In one of the kingdoms,
Buganda, which is the main province,
the Kabaka, Mutesa 11, wields the
greatest influence, not only over his own
two million subjects, but over Obote’s
Government.
Benedict Kiwanuka and his Democrats
were defeated in the last elections mainly
because they challenged the authority of
the Kabaka in Buganda. Obote, not one
of the Kabaka’s subjects himself, wisely
canvassed no votes in the kingdom, but
instead made an electoral pact with the
Kabaka Yekka (Kabaka over all), which
is King Mutesa’s party. It is the support
he gets today from the Kabaka Yekka
which gives Mr Obote the clear two-
thirds majority in the Legislative
Assembly enabling him to rule.
When the independence celebrations
have subsided next month, Prime Minis-
ter Obote will find his desk piled high
with problems of State. There is a “lost
countries” dispute between Buganda and
Bunyoro. There is a pygmies’ revolt
against the Toro. There are the Watutsi
terrorists who are alleged to be using
western Uganda as a base for operations
against their Bahutu enemies in neigh-
boring Ruanda.
But all these would seem minor
troubles by comparison if Mr Obote
were to fall out with the Kabaka. This
tribal ruler, a product of missionary
teaching and Magdalene College, Cam-
bridge, who played football like his
British mentors and did military training
with the Brigade of Guards, is to his
people the embodiment of all their hopes
and fears. Standing up for those hopes
and fears he was once deposed and
deported by the British.
So long as King Mutesa is prepared
to play b" 11 wit 1 Mr Milton Apollo
Obote, so long may Uganda’s era of
sovereignty get away to a smooth start.
If the King switches his favor it could
be rough indeed.
DESTALINISING
BULGARIA
Easier said than done ...
From LAJOS LEDERER
T>ussian concerii over continued Bul-
garian resistance to de-Stalinisation,
and mounting economic difficulties in
Bulgaria, has taken a Soviet Central
Committee delegation to Sofia —the third
such mission from Moscow in six
months.
It is led by Mr Andrei Kirilenko, a
recently promoted member of the Soviet
Presidium, and V. N. Titov, head of
the Soviet Central Committee’s depart-
ment for party organisation.
According to the Bulgail a radio, the
Soviet visitors, “were invited by the Bul-
garian Central Committee’’ and their pur-
pose is, “to exchange experience in party
work.” But stubborn resistance to de-
Stalinisation inside the Bulgarian Com-
munist Party and army leadership has
been frequently admitted by Mr Todor
Zhivkov, the party boss since the 22nd
Moscow Congress.
To help to resolve the confusion and
difficulties Mr Khrushchev sent one of
his top ideological experts, party secre-
tary Leonid Ilyichev to Sofia last April.
Mr Ilyichev’s report to Mr Khrushchev
on a serious division in the Bulgarian
Communist Party promptly took the
Soviet leader himself to Bulgaria, but
crucial problems remain.
A Yugoslav report says that the Bul-
garian Premier, Anton Yugov, is respon-
sible for the split in the party, backed
by prominent generals. Mr Yugov was
closely associated with Stalinist excesses
in Bulgaria and gained a reputation for
ruthlessness as Minister of the Interior
during the early post-war years.
Economic trouble in Bulgaria results
from continuing peasant resistance to
collectivisation accentuated this year by
a disastrous harvest. Stern measures
introduced by the Government early this
summer to induce peasant co-operation
have failed. Food is short and prices
have increased steeply. A dc ;ree intro-
ducing forced labor and deportation
from their homes for alleged slackers,
caused unrest. Many people were arres-
ted last month and death sentences an-
nounced for resisting police intervention.
The Communist leadership has
announced a new five year plan. It is due
to be presented at the Bth Party Con-
gress, which opens on November 5. A
revision of policy towards the peasants is
indicated in a letter, which the Party
Central Committee has issued in an
appeal to workers’ collectives. The talks
in Sofia between Soviet and Bulgarian
leaders may eliminate those forces in the
Bulgarian Communist Party, which are
opposed to concessions to the peasants.


FORUM
THE PERSECUTION
OF SOVIET JEWS
Not so different from Nazi Germany
By ISI LEIBLER
THE tragic history of Russian Jewry has been an unending cycle of
degradation, persecution and even physical annihilation. During the
Czarist era, Russian Jewry was the most oppressed and persecuted
minority group in Russia. The Revolution was anticipated by some opti-
mists as heralding the end to an era of discrimination. The Government
sponsored creation of an independent Jewish Province known as Biro
Bidjan at least encouraged these hopes. Though it turned out to be a tragic
farce utilised as a “stunt” for overseas propaganda, it nevertheless implied
official recognition that the Jews were an identifiable group with special
problems of their own. But hopes for a general improvement in status were
rudely shattered by Stalin who, at an early stage, dissolved and outlawed
all forms of Jewish communal and cultural association. By the tune of the
Nazi Comintern Pact, even loyal Bolsheviks of Jewish origin had largely
been purged from the upper echelons of the Party.
During the war itself, over a million
Soviet Jewish civilians alone, were ex-
terminated by Eichmann’s eastern front
representatives. But at least the surviving
Soviet Jews were encouraged to believe
that the post-war era would be brighter.
The hopes of the 23 million Russian
Jewish survivors were again dashed. At
first it appeared that Stalin might have
changed his attitude. Communists
throughout the world were taken com-
pletely by surprise when, without warn-
ing, the Soviet Government temporarily
reversed its long standing opposition to
“Zionism” and together with the United
States, supported the creation of the State
of Israel. But virtually simultaneously
Stalin initiated the “Anti-Cosmopolitan”
campaign which was primarily designed
against Jews. The last remaining source
of Jewish cultural expression the Yid-
dish language and culture was stifled
virtually over-night. Literally hundreds of
Yiddish journals and books simultaneous-
ly vanished from bookstalls and ceased
publication. In addition, the “Jewish Anti-
Fascist Committee” —a special war-time
creation designed primarily for external
propaganda was disbanded. Just over
ten years ago in August 1952, every
single one of the Jewish representatives
leading this group, was murdered at
Stalin’s personal direction. The terror
reached its climax just prior to Stalin’s
death with the “Moscow Doctors’ Plot”.
By this time Soviet Jews were being
accused of virtually every imaginable
criminal and subversive act including col-
laboration with the CIA and the Israeli
Government, as well as organising plots
to assassinate Stalin through the medium
of specially placed Jewish physicians. In
general, Moscow Radio references to
Jews were to all intents and purposes,
identical in tenor with sentiments of the
defunct Nazi-operated Berlin Radio.
In 1956, Khrushchev disclosed that a
virtually paranoid Stalin intended deport-
ing the bulk of Soviet Jews to slave
labor settlements in 1953. For Soviet
Jewry, the death of Stalin was conse-
quently a reprieve from probable physi-
cal decimation.
After the death of Stalin in 1953,
Soviet Jews again looked optimistically
towards the future. The so-called liberal-
isation period and Khrushchev’s denuncia-
tion of Stalinism, all appeared to augur
well for the future. However, it is signifi-
cant that in the course of denouncing
Stalin’s crimes, Khrushchev simply
ignored the injustices meted out to Soviet
Jewry. This was despite the fact that he
fully detailed injustices perpetrated against
nationalities that had hitherto been un-
heard of in some cases totalling only
five to ten thousand people. It was only
after protests by British, Polish and
American Communists, that Khrushchev
briefly admitted to the Stalinist persecu-
tion of Jews.
Despite this, many Soviet Jews believed
that after 40 years of bloody cycles of
persecution at the hands of Bolsheviks
and Nazis, the era of “liberalisation” re-
ferred to by the new “Collective Leader-
ship” would favorably affect their status.
But this was not to happen. Restric-
tions were eased for all denominations
the Russian Orthodox Church, other
Christian groups, and also Moslems. But
the Jews remained an exception. They
were prohibited from forming national
associations for federations of religious
communities. Whereas the Russian Ortho-
dox Church was even encouraged to par-
ticipate for the first time in the World
Council of Churches and Moslem pil-
grims were permitted to go to Mecca —•
Jews were still denied the right of any
contact with Jewish communities or sister
religious bodies in the Western World.
Unlike treatment meted out to other
denominations, the Soviet Commissioner
of Cults, provides virtually no budget for
Jewish religious requisites. No Hebrew
Bible has been published since 1917 and
funds are not available for the main-
tainance of Synagogues. The manufac-
ture of religious requisites such as Prayer
Shawls and even unleavened bread for
Passover are forbidden. The only re-
ligious seminary (revived after Stalin’s
death, primarily as a tourist attraction)
consisting of up to twelve Rabbinical
students to cater for 23 million Jews
was limited to one student earlier this
year.
There is no Jewish educational net-
work; the Yiddish Press, the Yiddish
publishing houses and the Yiddish
theatres which were all closed down by
Stalin after the war, have not been re-
vived. Our journal and a few Yiddish
books in very limited editions, with larger
external than internal circulation, were
published recently primarily as a sop to
overseas public opinio r. Some Commun-
ist apologists maintain that Soviet Jews
are no longer interested in Jewish Cul-
ture. This is contradicted by the fantastic
attendances and impact that a few re-
cently arranged Jewish concerts and re-
citals made on the Russian Jewish Com-
munity. Beside this, „t the last census,
during the height of StalinLt anti-semi-
tism and despite the risks involved, half a
million Soviet Jews still openly defined
Yiddish as their Mother tongue.
Recently, the question of outright dis-
crimination against Jews has also come
to the fore-front. With the exception of
science and technology, fields in which
Jews are playing an indispensible role
and their abilities utilised, there is a sys-
tematic discrimination against Jews in all
responsible positions in the Civil Service
and bureaucracy. Soviet statistical hand-
outs designed to deny this, are meaning-
less and are frequently identical figures to


those employed by the Stalinist Regime
endeavouring to “prove” that Soviet Jews
never had it better.
It is interesting to note that unlike
the Melbourne Communist “Guardian”
which in recent months has repeatedly
denied Soviet discrimination against Jews,
Mr Khrushchev himself, has been quite
frank about the whole question. To lead-
ers of the French Socialist Delegation in
Moscow, Khrushchev stated;
“Anti-semitic sentiments still exist
here. Should the Jews want to occupy
the foremost positions in our Republic
now, it would naturally be taken amiss
by the indigenous inhabitants.”
Khrushchev was even more out-spoken
on this theme to the Central Committee
of the Polish Communist Party in 1956
when he stated:
“I believe that in Poland too, you are
suffering from an abnormal composition
of the leading cadres, as we had suf-
fered from it. Now see what things are
like in my country . . . We have now got
our affairs in good order. The percentage
of high Jewish officials is not nil in my
country two or three per thousand.
But in your country? How many Jews
have you got in Poland? Some forty or
fifty thousand? So what is their propor-
tion in relation to the total population
and what is their proportion in the
leading cadres, including the Central
Committee of the Party? . . . You have
too many Abrahamoviches in your
leadership.”
We have here, Khrushchev’s own ad-
mission that Jews who are not recognised
as a nationality by the Regime will
nevertheless only be admitted to advanced
positions in Soviet society on a “numer-
us clausus” basis rather than on indi-
vidual merit. Jews have served their pur-
pose by providing personnel for the early
stages of Soviet growth and are now
expected to make way for indigenous (!)
elements! This glaring contradiction is
the essence of the Jewish problem in
"And then they cut open the shark's tummy and
found a real arm and a toy teddy bear inside,
and then I went and watched television."
the USSR and reflects an important as-
pect of Soviet anti-semitism.
It is in the last twelve months that
the general situation has taken a strong
turn for the worse. Under the pretext
of indulging in a campaign against “econ-
omic crimes” numerous Jews have been
executed (economic crimes in USSR
carry the death penalty). Others includ-
ing unofficial Jewish communal leaders
in Moscow, Leningrad and other import-
ant urban centres, have been given long
prison sentences. Many of these were
simultaneously accused of participating
in “Zionist espionage rings” centred
about the Israeli Embassy. These refer-
ences to Israelis and Zionists are clear
warnings to Soviet Jews that any pro-
Israeli sentiments are considered as sub-
versive by the Government.
motives for involving Jews in this
A current campaign against “economic
crimes” are clearly discernible. It is well
known that in recent years, pressure from
below for better consumer goods have
created tensions within the bureaucracy,
which in turn has sought scapegoats for
repeated failure;, to achieve different
economic norms and plans. Besides this
a vast grey market of corruption has
injected itself into the life stream of the
State. Occupying a middle position in
the State machinery as clerks and ac-
countants the Jews have provided the
upper echelons with ideal scapegoats
for the failures and corruption which
flourish in this class as a whole.
Unfortunately, in order to best utilise
the scapegoat angle, a matching image of
the Jew must be built up generally. To
achieve this the Government monopo-
lised mass media have highlighted the
Jewish origin of those accused of “econ-
omic crimes” in a manner designed to
convey a clear message.
In spite of this, a distinction between
Soviet and Nazi anti-semitic motivation
should be noted. With the exception of
appointments to the Foreign Service,
unlike Nazism there is no racial basis
to the Soviet anti-semitic campaign. In
fact the recently appointed Deputy
Premier is of Jewish origin and the
Regime constantly parades a few fav-
orite Communist writers and scientists
of Jewish origin to disprove accusations
of anti-semitism by the outside world.
However, when a regime constantly in-
jects anti-semitism through its monopo-
lised mass media, the results are inevit-
able, especially in a country with a heri-
tage of hundreds of years of Czarist
sponsored anti-semitic indoctrination. It
is therefore not surprising that in recent
months there have been alarming re-
ports throughout the Soviet Union of
violence against individual Jews and dese-
crations of Synagogues.
Now should it be thought that “non*
racial” anti-semitism prevents stero-
typing of Jews in Streicher-like propor-
tions. This was demonstrated by the re-
vival of the notorious mediaeval Blood
Libel in 1960 by the “Daghestan Kom-
munist.” The article was intended to
appeal to Moslems who made up the
dominant element of the Province. Inter
alia, it started that “Jews believed, in
accordance with their religion, that the
drinking of Moslem blood once a year is
a Mitzah .. . Many Jews buy 5 to 10
grams of Moslem blood, put it in a large
tank of water and sell it”. The Soviet
authorities with their highly centralised
Press control, failed to react despite
strong representations by local Jews. It
was only when the article was reprinted
and made banner headlines throughout
the World Press that a symbolic gesture
was made. A correction was inserted into
the paper pointing out that the state-
ment that Jews drank human blood was
a political error. The editor was trans-
ferred to management of another journal.
It is apparent from all this hat the
plight of Soviet Jewry is a rapidly de-
teriorating one. The great tragedy of
Soviet Jewry, is that whereas the “Hell
House” of Stalinism no more, and in
general most Russian citizens are con-
siderably better off than they were
for Jews there has been no improvement,
rather a worsening of their status. All
aspects of Jewish group survival re-
ligion, Yiddish, or Hebrew culture, ethnic
ties, contact with Israeli or overseas Jews
are considered as subversive activities
by the Government. Yet at the same
time their nationality status is ambiguous-
ly perpetuated on their passports and
their freedom to emigrate to countries
offering them freedom of religious ex-
pression are denied.
Jewish leaders in the Free World con-
sider that the present situation may de-
teriorate even further and are endeavour-
ing to draw the attention of public
opinion to the plight of their Soviet co-
religionists. It is generally accepted that
this public agitation is the only means
whereby the plight of Soviet Jewry may
be somewhat eased.
Steps have been taken to bring the
matter to the appropriate agencies of
the United Nations. It may be raised in
Federal Parliament. A number of
MHR’s and Senators have expressed the
view that the whole matter should be
taken up by the Australian Government
through its representatives on the United
Nations Commission of Human Tights.
Whether or not this comes to fruition,
Australian Jewish leaders, together with
their counterparts abroad, will continue
drawing attention to the plight of 21
million human beings, who, under the
laws of “Soviet Equality” are discriminat-
ed against and persecuted in a manner
that can only be equated to a slow but
certain death by strangulation.


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
THE MELBOURNE HANGING
Sir,
Usually it is not my practice to com-
ment on your articles about Victoria,
critical or otherwise; in fact I usually
find some good content in }Our critical
articles but I do feel that I should have
a word to say about some of the extra-
ordinary inaccuracies in your article
“The Melbourne Hanging” on page 6 of
your issue of 15th September, 1962.
Whilst it is my desire to refrain from
commenting on this matter while Tait’s
appeal to the Privy Council is still
in train, I feel that statements so wide of
the truth as those made in your paper
should not go unchallenged.
To say that the Crown and the
Defence agreed the trial that Tait was
a psychopath who became uncontrol-
lable while influenced by alcohol is, to
say the least of it, a complete exaggera-
tion highlighting the evidence given on
behalf of the defence in ignoring the
views of the experienced psychiatrist who
was called by the Crown. The jury cer-
tainly did not accept the Defence’s claim
that the old lady was killed while Tait
was in a psychopathic state. I would
have thought that a fair summary of
evidence of the killing would have been
exactly the reverse.
The statement that the matter was be-
fore Cabinet in March, but because the
numbers were even was deferred, is com-
pletely untrue.
I would remind you that the law re-
lating to insanity and murder has been
reviewed as recently as the last year or
two by both the High Court and Privy
Council and up to date neither the Court
of Criminal Appeal in Victoria nor the
High Court had the slighest hesitation
in rejecting Tait’s applications for leave
to appeal.
Your correspondent’s suggestion that
the decision to hang Tait was deferred
until after the Broadmeadc..s by-election
is quite fanciful. The one thing in the
present controversy about which there is
no dispute whatever is that the majority
of electors in this State favor the reten-
tion of capital punishment.
A. G. RYLAH
Chief Secretary, Victoria
Melbourne.
Sir,
I read your article “The Melbourne
Hanging” (Bulletin, September 8) with
some dismay because of the departure it
represents from the usually high stan-
dard of Bulletin reporting.
I do not desire to join in the contro-
versy which has arisen in this community
most importantly because it would be
impossible for a non-abolitionist to
make his views known, having regard
to the partisanship of all Melbourne
newspapers. However, I would inform
you of three manifest errors in your re-
cent article:
(1) The anti-hanging petition did not
gain 10,000 signatures quickly. The time
taken to achieve this has been signifi-
cantly long.
(2) The McNaghten Rules have not
been abolished in England, but only
slightly modified.
(3) The McNaghten test is not a cumu-
lative one of a man “not knowing the
nature and quality of his act AND not
knowing it was wrong.” There two are
alternatives.
DOUGLAS GRAHAM
Toorak (Victoria).
NO CATHOLICS
Sir,
I suppose the injunction to love the sin-
ner while hating the sin could be exten-
ded to loving the bigot while registering a
strong protest at the bigotry. With this
in mind, I can truthfully be said to love
Mr. Thomas Agst. At the same time 1
am not particularly enthusiastic about
the bigotry which inspired his letter to
you (Bulletin, Sept. Ist) concerning the
alleged non-co-operation between Catho-
lics and Protestants in Australia.
Mr. Agst may never have heard of
Bunbury. He most certainly has not
heard of me. lam a Catholic Priest. I
am also Secretary of the Bunbury Min-
isters’ Fraternal. The September meet-
ing will be held in St. Patrick’s Cathe-
dral Hall on 27th. If Mr. Agst were
nearer he could with profit attend.
He might also like to present himself
at one of the Scout Troop meetings. The
Catholic Church does not run separate
Troops in Bunbury, but he would be well
received as probably half the Scouts and
quite a number of the Leaders are
Catholics. We are also well represented
both in membership and in management
in the Police Boys’ Club. I also spend
quite a lot of time each week instructing
the Catholic children attending the local
State Schools.
As for the accusation that Catholics
run exclusive, sectarian hospitals, this
mis-statement is conclusively nailed by
consulting the thousands of non-Catho-
lies who avail themselves of these hos-
pitals annually. We do not restrict ad-
mission to members of our own faith
as apparently Mr. Agst does in his ex-
clusive, secretarian Home. We have
learned from experience that Protestants
in our institutions do not “automatically
cause trouble and make the lives of the
Catholics unhappy”.
Living in his narrow, bitter, little
world Mr Agst seems blithely unaware of
the flourishing world-wide movement to-
wards closer contact and co-operation
among members of all Christian bodies.
Mr. Agst is interesting as a survival
from what I had fondly imagined to be
the remote past ... a 20th Century body
with inbuilt, genuine 16th Century pre-
judices.
REV. B. R. ADDERLEY
Secretary, Bunbury Ministers’
Fraternal
Bunbury, W.A.
Sir,
Will Mr Agst (Bulletin, September
1) tell us of any Catholic Hospital, Men-
tJ Hospital, orphanage, Home for the
Aged, Hospital for Retarded People,
Home for the Unwed Mothers, Blind,
Deaf, Dumb Hospitals, or any Institu-
tion for the Needy conducted by the
Catholic Church that denies Protestants
entry? The next thing Mr Agst will
want is the right to nominate the Pope
by his small band of bigots.
JOHN JOHNSON
Paddington, NSW.
“OVERLAND” AND THE CLF
Sir,
Your attitude upon the refusal of the
Cth. Literary Fund to grant a subsidy to
“Overland” bewilders me, since “Over-
land” began as a Communist venture,
and still consistently features writers of
the (to put it mildly) extreme Left. It
is true that in recent years it has taken
on a more general appearance following
the troubles in Hungary of a few years
ago, but a critical reading of its columns
will show where its heart and mind still
lie. It is lively, good value and economic-
ally run, which is (of course) more than
can be said for “Southerly” which for
years has been exploiting its CLF
subsidy in order to continue. It exhibits
the evils of subsidising which encourages
inefficiency and discourages initiative
and all attempts to stand on one’s own
legs. Subsidising it has been a minor
scandal.
If it comes to subsidies for purely
literary ventures none deserves one more
than the Poetry Review of the Poetry
Society of Australia (Sydney), which is
struggling, and has been for years, to
give poets greater opportunities for pub-
lication in years when the quarterlies
and the weeklies and the dailies are in-
creasingly chary of poetry. The political
control of the CLF is sensible, and can
prevent a waste of money on ventures
whose political affiliations may be far


from admirable, but which literary men
might be inclined to aid on the principle
“One in, all in”. There is still much to be
said for the principle: “All out!”
PATRICIA TIERNEY
Corinda (Queensland).
BEYOND THE CRINGE
Sir,
A cultural diagnostician should get to
work on the flattery splashed over “Be-
yond the Fringe” not only by your Kevon
Kemp (Bulletin, September 15), but the
whole range of critics, including “Pix.”
Some of us started liking the new kind
of London Revue in 1949 when the
“Lyric” show moved to the West End, or
even before then. We have gone on
liking it even in the form in which Lon-
don acts are pinched and passed off as
Australian products.
But in this context was “Beyond the
Fringe” anything out of the box? Small-
cast informal shows of this kind were
well under way in the mid-nineteen-
fifties; and the content of this show was
very largely run-of-the-mill homosexual-
ity, hanging, Shakespeare send-ups and so
on. Even the laughing at Britain-at-War
was done much better by Terry Thomas
in a commercial film Several years ago.
What impressed the Brits about “Be-
yond the Fringe” was the satire on Mac-
millan. They have not lately been in the
habit of satirising Prime Ministers on the
stage.
To Australians who are beyond the
cringe “Beyond the Fringe” was simply a
standard London performance that might
have been better if it had had a few
girls in it. It is hard to imagine that the
critics’ reactions were not an expansion
of London Chi-chi.
DONALD HORNE
Sydney.
TROTSKY v. JUPP
Sir,
To anyone faintly acquainted with
the history of European socialism in this
century, it must come as something of a
bad joke to read that Mr Jupp and his
Melbourne supporters presume to label
themselves “socialist”, especially when
his article “What Happened to the New
Left” (Bulletin, September 15) reveals
their affinity with and indebtedness to
European social democracy.
Who, it might be asked, have been the
leading men of European social demo-
cracy, or of what Rosa Luxemburg called
“the stinking corpse of social demo-
cracy”. Ebert, Noske, Scheidemann,
MacDonald, Snowdon, Henderson,
Mollet, Gai'tskell, Spaak, etc. (We have
also had our homegrown variety such as
Holman and Hughes.) The list is almost
endless.
Past and present, the highest common
factor of all these “civilised” socialists is
their constitutional incapacity to act de-
cisively in the face of great events, unless
it be to perform their characteristic role
of rescuing capitalism from social revo-
lution. They do not stand, as Trotsky
once pointed out, “for a stormy, barri-
caded, terrorist, bloody revolution, but
for a sane, economically balanced, legally
canonised, and philosophically
approved revolution.” In the semantic
sophistication of social democracy,
cowardliness has come to mean prudence,
opportunism the parliamentary majority,
duty the preservation of the status quo;
and frequently this is accompanied by
the impudence of verbally masquerad-
ing as socialists.
PAUL CASSIDY
Kedron ( Queensland).
WHAT HAPPENED TO THE
NEW LEFT?
Sir,
Where did James Jupp (The Bul-
letin, September 15) get the informa--
tion that the Adelaide New Left Club is
one of the Marxist-oriented “old New
Left” groups—that’s assuming such a
classification can fairly be made.
Whoever is his informant, he’s greatly
astray. The large majority of members
of the Adelaide New Left Club are
card-carrying members of that very non-
Marxist-oriented group, the Australian
Labor Party. The club cannot be classi-
fied in terms of any alleged Sydney-
Melbourne differences.
BRUCE MUIRDEN
Helmsdale (South Australia).
HUGHES v. HARRIS
Sir,
Whilst being no great admirer of Mr
Max Harris, I feel he would be hard
put to beat Mr Robert Hughes
(Bulletin, Letters, September 15) when
it comes to using “polemical tricks”
and “smears” and exhibiting signs of
paranoia.
I am still trying to understand why
artists stand in such fearful awe of Mr
Hughes. Is it his outstanding ability for
hysterical and feline abuse or do they
believe that glib use of intellectual jar-
gon, that muddled wordiness, those gaily
abandoned metaphors, are a sign of psy-
chological insight and philosophical
depth?
Why is it not possible to ray that a
man is a “very fine artist” but doubt that
his work has “enduring profundity” (e.g.
that the man is a genius)? Mr Hughes
recently deplored the spirit of competi-
tion in the art world but do not critics
such as himself in fact increase it? The
Art World is as cut-throat as the busi-
ness world in spite of all its high-falut-
ing, goody-goody airs and Mr
Hughes as a critic, illustrates this odd
mixture of other-worldliness and fierce
jockeying for position so prevalent here
as elsewhere.
How about some creative criticism, Mr
Hughes?
(Mrs) PHYLLIS BOYD
Oakleigh (Victoria).
THE FORRESTER MOTION
Sir,
In early August, Mr J. Forrester
sponsored a motion in support of state
justice to independent schools at an ALP
Youth Council meeting. About a month
later, Mr J. Forrester fought a motion
in favor of rescission of the previous de-
cision (Bulletin, Sept. 8). Quite ob-
viously, Mr J. Forrester, President of the
ALP Youth Council, was determined to
stand firm on this vital issue.
Late in July, however, only a few days
previous to his sponsoring of the first
motion, the same Mr J. Forrester was
requested and consented to lead the Gov-
ernment at a Sydney University Union
Night Debate entitled “That the DLP has
lost its significance”. Although the mo-
tion was naturally defeated, he openly
declared that the DLP had absolutely no
significant contribution to make to Aus-
tralian politics today, on matters of
policy or otherwise.
Considering that it is the DLP which
has persistently stood by its educational
justice policy since its inception, it would
appear that Mr. Forrester who now so
adamantly fights for the identical policy
as President of the ALP Youth Council,
has made an about-turn as pathetically
spectacular as the so-called right-wingers
who deserted him on the rescission move.
P. C. MANNING
Bondi, (NSW).
PLENTY OF GOOD STUFF
Sir,
“National Notebook” and J. Hen-
shaw’s critique concerning a recent exhi-
bition by John Bell (Bulletin, Septem-
ber 15) seem to me to contain oblique
references to the temerity of artists to
receive adequate remuneration for their
work and to the entrepreneurship of
gallery owners.
Being one of those “people-type
people” referred to, I welcome a devel-
opment which not only allows artists to
obtain a market but encourages greatest
interest in the work of Australian artists.
All paintings do not cost a couple of
hundred quid. It’s not so long ago that
a Drysdale, Herman or Cassab could be
bought for much less than that. The
event of galleries has not altered the posi-
tion in any way —there are still plenty
of purchases to suit the limited pockets
of chaps like myself. The only differ-
ence is nowadays that one has to com-
pete with many more prospective buyers
and that some galleries have previews
where the privileged few pick the eyes
out of the offering. However, gallery
owners must live and, as I said earlier,
it is about time our artists were properly
rewarded, so previews have their points,
too. In any case, there’s plenty of good
stuff about apart from exhibitions.
HARRY JACKMAN
Konedobu (Papua).
SANTAMARIA MOVES NORTH
Sir,
An interesting point Mr Brian Mullins
(Bulletin, September 22) may be able
to answer is whether or not a political
programme is being shown over Bris-
bane’s Channel 7 at the concession rates
granted for the showing of religious
programmes.
H. BLACK
Lawley House (Canberra).


REVIEWS
THEATRE
TAKING CHRISTIANITY SERIOUSLY
From Ray Mathew
TI/hen “Black Nativity” became the
” sensation of this year’s Festival of
Two Worlds at Spoleto, it was easy to
dismiss as a merely sensational success;
it had had the publicity, and the luck
in anti-clerical Italy, of running foul of
the local church. In Lorn' i, however,
at the beginning of a world tour which
will include Australia, it has repeated
its artistic success, ha had to extend
its season and is playing twice-nightly
to the staid Erglish. It is now to be
performed in the new cathedral at
Coventry; the first work of art, some
say, to appear in that barn decorated
by Sutherland, Piper and all.
The company is led by Marion Wil-
liams, a young sort of Mahalia Jackson,
and Alex Bradford, a sort of Belafonte
from the Greater Ayssinian Church in
Newark. Every one sings, shouts,
shuffles in this very serious, very funny
more-than-entertainment contrived with
the help of Langston Hughes.
In “A Child Is Born,” they tell the
story of the Nativity from “No Room
at the Inn” and “Most Done Travel-
ling” to “What You Gorina Name That
Pretty Little Baby” and “Sweet Little
Jesus Boy.” Two trained dancers, of
extraordinary beauty, play t the story.
In “The Word is Spread,” the second
part of the entertainment, the company
re-creates a gospel meeting while
Preacher Bradford sermonises, sings,
dances and directs their enthusiasms as
they cry “We shall be changed, in a
twinkling.”
From mortal to immortality because
there’s “Nobody like the Lord.” Who
else is your friend, always and forever?
“I said I Wasn’t Gonna Tell Nobody,”
but who could keep it to himself? They
can’t. And they on’t. They harangue
and exhort, whisper and confide, dance
and clap, sing and exult, till the audi-
ence (most of the audience, not all of
the English are free) finds itself clap-
ping in time; their joy is contagious and
the feeling of involvement with their per-
formance is thrilling. The performance
ends—twice nightly—with ovations like
hysteria.
But it is not lynch-gang hysteria, pelt-
Mosley predetermination, jazz-club ter-
vor. What these singers are doing is art.
They succeed in sharing their experi-
ence; no one in the audience doubted,
during a song, their sincerity and their
conviction and their joy. These people,
astonishingly, take Christianity seriously
and, what a triumph of art, force us
for a while to share their seriousness.
For them, there is no mystery about
Christ’s Blood, no verbalising it into a
poetic conceit; their song looks at color,
flow and then announces proudly “The
Blood Saved Me.” There is no post-
card prettiness of stable in gentle snow;
uncomfortable with child, “Mary’s on
the road” and there’s no room at the
hotel for anybody poor—‘‘Wasn’t That a
Pity and a Shame.”
The dancers play Mary and Joseph
with a nice blend of artifice and obser-
vation. Mary walks in her pain with
arched body and cat-like pawings to
find her step. The birth is no nursery
present, no clinical parthogenesis, but
a hurtful and grotesque writhing on the
ground. When it’s done, and, sweat-
ing still, she sits there by her sweating
Joseph looking at the white cloth which
does duty for Jesus, the chorus shouts
“What a Mighty Day,” and we know
that it was —mighty as e'~ry birth is but
more tremendous.
I had an uneasy feeling of sorrow
that I wasn’t a Christian and shame that
I couldn’t accept the gift these people
knew Christ was and is.
AN AI JB
JB. Archibald MacLeish. Canberra
Repertory Society.
HThis dramatisation o the Boo’ of Job
is an impressive affair, which de-
serves all the success it won in America.
Job’s story is the oldest and most fam-
ous version of the eternal tragic ques-
tion: the ‘why?’ which suffering man
asks as he considers the vast discrep-
ancy between his suffering and his guilt.
The Hebraic legend does not reconcile
the two. In an imaginativ mingling of
naturalism and allegory, it takes its stand
with dignity on the virtues of patience,
trust in God’s wisdom and faith in His
ultimate justice.
Archibald MacLeish makes a distin-
guished attempt to place this timeless
experience in a modern setting. Job
becomes the successful American banker
whose family and wealth are taken from
him as a result of 20th Century evil:
world wars, civilian bombing, drunken
driving, crimes of violence. The three
comforters become the representatives of
politics, the Church and Science.
He changes his form from narrative
to drama as boldly as he changes his
period, and the Morality Play is his
main inspiration, as it had to be if God
and the Devil were to test the worth
of their righteous man. The freedom
which its abstraction gives allows him to
move swiftly about in time and the uni-
verse, or to switch from JB’s story to
the running commentary on it from God
and Satan, by using the old method of
an unbroken sequence of scenes. But
the example of Pirandello was the de-
vice of framing the main action within
a circus, whose clown and peanut seller
dress up in masks and robes to become
God and the Devil.
All these elements were united and
given life in Canberra Repertory’s pro-
duction. Actors and producer (Ric
Throssell) coped impressively with its
tragic dimensions and its technical pro-
blems. This was especially praiseworthy
in a play where action is limited, and so
the quality of the voices is all the more
important, and where the height of the
stage ceiling could contribute to its
visual symbolism. Within Rep’s tiny
picture-frame, set-designer A 1 Butavicius
had provided a splendid fiery whirlwind,
but God’s voice could emerge from it
only at human height. But God (John
Wells) spoke with depth and authority,
and JB (Bill Fisherd) conveyed happi-
ness and agony with equal conviction,
largely because of his flexible and at-
tractive voice. Joyce Glynn as JB’s
wife was extraordinarily moving in her
near-silent, passive suffering. Les Law-
rence as Satan was appropriately active,
but he reduced the stature of the part


by poor articulation and disorganized
movement.
If the end of “JB”, a man and play,
was less blessed than its beginnings, this
was because the difficulty of the task
was too much even for Mr MacLeish:
naturalism and symbolism proved an un-
cordial alliance.
However, even the imperfect end did
not spoil the fine things before it. Mac-
Leish’s medium is a variety of verse,
and there were moments, as in the
Thanksgiving dinner, when the formality
of this language combined uneasily with
the charming naturalness of all the little
Jobs. But especially in the scene with
the comforters, the quick rhymes, the
liturgical and mechanical repetitions, the
deadly singsong of the dope the com-
forters offered were the perfect expres-
sion for the theme. Actors and producer
combined to present a horrifying ex-
pressionistic pattern of JB’s spiritual
crisis, as the goose-stepping comforters
stamped and shouted round their un-
happy victim.
The production as a whole was out-
standing, not to be missed by anyone
who takes his theatre seriously.
HOPE HEWITT
PERFECT MARRIAGE
Amphitryon 38. Giraudoux, trans.
S. N. Behrman. Pocket Playhouse.
Tt is quite a while since a little theatre
evening in Sydney has crackled so
continuously and brilliantly as Mr Nor-
man McVicker’s production of that ever-
green sophisticate, Amphitryon 38. Much
of the delight is due to that perfect
marriage—of M. Giraudoux and Mr
Behrman—a far better match, to my
mind, than the later one between M.
Giraudoux and Mr Christopher Fry.
However, one must say that this pro-
duction succeeds because it has style.
Style in theatre is a mis-used term very
often, but its proper meaning for a com-
pany of players is that all the players
share a common idea about the play,
and that all of them act in the same
manner.
Giraudoux’s tale of Jupiter’s pursuit
of a faithful and beautiful wife, and his
god-like assumption of her husband’s
form, in order to get to bed with her, is
still a very funny play indeed, and Hugh
Richardson as Jupiter, aide-de-camped
with ingenuity by Mercury (John
Fleming) contrived a professional shine
to their sophisticated wit which was way
beyond what one expects of most ama-
teurs caught out in a storm of Girau-
doux.
In particular, the scene at the breakfast
table with Jupiter trying hard to have
Alkmena (smoothly played by Noella
Masson) admit that the very long night
they have just enjoyed together was the
most pleasant she had ever had, comes
off superbly.
Alkmena, to Jupiter’s fury, recalls
several other occasions she rates higher,
she has, of course, no notion that it is
not her real husband with whom she is
breakfasting. The word for this night,
Alkmena decides, is connubial. It is a
prize scene, and the players did it proud.
From indications, this is a show for
which seats will be scarce due to the
Pocket’s small size, but at least I can
assure you that the wait is worthwhile.
KEVON KEMP
BEHIND THE MASKS
Yeats: Three Dance Plays (“The
Dreaming of the Bones”, “At the
Hawk’s Well”, “The Cat and the
Moon.”) Twelfth Night Players.
Brisbane.
tpHESE tiny plays, or dance dramas as
I think Yeats called them, require
the small dimensions of a hall such as
the Brisbane Gowrie. Their deliberate
artifices, their mannerisms, were a little
less uncomfortable here than they would
have been in the coldness of a full-scale
auditorium. They could never be really
successful, of course, although “At the
Hawk’s Well” was very nearly so. This
was the earliest of Yeats’ “Noh” plays
and the force and simplicity of its sym-
bolism make a much stronger impact on
an audience than does “The Dreaming
of the Bones,” which lacks the terrible
directness of theme that will cohere the
bits of verse and the bits of story and
the bits of dancing. “The Cat and the
Moon” is little more than a spot of
blarney. It is the most unhappily cluttered
of the three plays with all those trappings
of grotesque masks, drum and clarinet
accompaniment, and poetic narration
that characterise these pieces.
“At the Hawk’s Well” was given
splendid costumes and performance by
the Twelfth Night players and the Masks
were a distinct success. The transforma-
tion and dance of the Hawk Spirit were
the highlight of the evening. The music
was very well done indeed, and the
Narrator gave one of the most convincing
exhibitions of the use of “sprachstimme”
I have heard. This device emphasised
the period feel of the plays themselves by
throwing up shadows of “Facade” and
“Pierrot Luniare”. The first two decades
of this Century are a very very long
time ago.
THOMAS W. SHAPCOTT
TELEVISION
STRETCH IN
SING SING
|Yn Friday night at 7.30 my tele-
vision programme exhorts me to
either “Singalong” or “Sing, Sing, Sing.”
Last week 1 decided to do both and
offer a brief report on the proceedings.
“Sing, Sing, Sing” was not, as I had
expected, televised from Further Up the
River than Sing Sing. It was the for-
mer Johnny O’Keefe show with Lionel
Long as its new compere, and a strong
leaning to the incoming vogue for
“country and western style” music and
song.
It began with Mr Long, who used to
be a good man with a folk song, doing
his commercial best with a little num-
ber called “Rockabilly,” possibly in-
tended to help bridge the chasm be-
tween old Rock and the 1 ' :st Hillbilly
manifestation.
On the other channel I found the
Singalong crew rendering “A Loverley
Bunch of Coconuts.” To be mercifully
brief, I will only remark that this was
followed by such other old chestnuts
as “Oklahoma!” “I’m On a See-Saw,”
“Hold ” ur Hand Out, Naughty Boy,”
“I’m Happy When I’m Hiking”, and “In
My Merry Oldsmobile.” With each the
Singalongers changed costumes and
danced around in twos, threes or fours.
It was almost as fascinating as com-
munity singing used to be on radio 25
years ago.
Much the same, I fear, must be said
of “Sing, Sing, Sing.” This hour still has
the benefits of excellent sets, lighting
and direction, but without Mr O’Keefe
it has lost an irreplaceable element, call
it vitality, showmanship, or what you
will.
In its search Kr suitable Australian
material, television has gone wild for
singing shows. This week another came
into the lists, compered by John Laws,
who does not appear to have any dy-
namic quality. Some dynamism becomes
essential to comperes when so many
shows of a similar nature are being pro-
duced.
Viewing the present crop, I find my-
self leaning towards the horrible con-
clusion that Tommy Hanlon would be a
preferable compere to any of them. At
least he has a personality. The cur-
rent idea in television seems to be to
make the compere inoffensive, devoid
of character, and not only neutral but,
if possible, neuter. That may have been
good tactics when only one or two shows
were offering, but not when there are
five or six. In a world of zombies it
stands to reason that any live man must
stand out.
FRANK ROBERTS


RADIO
RADIO SHOWS TV HOW
Ilf hen “An Airman Remembers” ap-
peared on ABC television it suc-
ceeded in showing and telling viewers
a good deal about earlier Australian
aviation, but failed to project much of
its sensation. Neither P. G. Taylor nor
the film clips succeeded in producing
that extra dimension of “how it must
have felt”—to fly then, or to look up
and see Ross Smith’s Vickers Vimy fly-
ing in over Sydney, 600 feet up, visible
and magnificently audible, less than 30
days out from a London then eight
weeks’ away by ship.
So when ABC radio offered its Syd-
ney and Melbourne listeners a feature
on the Ross and Keith Smith flight I
was interested to see whether sound
alone would capture the missing dimen-
sion, by forcing the imagination to work
harder than television requires, and
feeding it with word pictures and sound
effects. In this manner, radio can
achieve much that will remain beyond
the capacities of television. The fact
that it rarely does is a matter tor con-
cern.
“A Voyage By Air” was written by
Cecil Holmes, better known as a motion
picture director. It attempted to catch
the drama of the pioneering flight with
two voices, Ross Smith’s (Richard
Meikle) and a Narrator’s (Ron Had-
drick), and sound effects. This format
was preferable to the babble of voices
which often mar ABC radio documen-
taries, but it was too austere. No dia-
logue at all proved as limiting to the
listener’s participation as too much.
The producer, Frank Semple, opened
the feature with a sound of bands and
crowds, fading under as the Narrator
established the atmosphere of 1919, with
“some young men preparing to write
fresh pages in the history books”. The
Narrator sketched in events up to the
time when the Vickers Vimy’s propellors
“whipped the flakes of snow” as it took
off from London and headed for the
Alps, “a large cumbersome biplane with
open cockpits” roaring along at 90 miles
an hour at heights from 500 to an icy
11,000 feet.
This was much more evocative than
the few stills of the flight, or any of
the flights, shown in “An Airman Re-
members”, and it soon proved that past
events can be recreated more effectively
on radio than on television. The short-
comings of “A Voyage By Aii” were
not those of radio as a medium. They
were failings of script and production.
There is no evidence that Ross Smith
was a St Exupery, a poet of the air.
“We observed Australia” was more in
his line, and the narrative would have
been more faithful to its subject without
some of its high-octane boost. But it
did tell us more directly than “An Air-
man Remembers” that the Smiths were
determined explorers as well as heroic
airmen, and it certainly did transmit
a more lively sense of the adventure of
flying in those times. For example, to
land a Vickers of 1919 in 100 yards on
a racecourse littered with uncomprehend-
ing spectators, one of you had to climb
out of the cockpit on to the fuselage
and slide down to the tail as the plane
made its landfall, acting as a human
counterweight.
That information impressed me more
than did a film clip of P. G. Taylor
climbing around “Smithy’s” aircraft dur-
ing a Tasman crossing, and the ques-
tion is, why? The answer seems to be,
the room for imagination which exists in
something that only one sense nets for
the mind. This suggests that radio is
potentially as valuable as the written
word for our more complete understand-
ing and education and entertainment.
It also suggests that the ABC might
experiment with related features in its
two mediums, on television and then on
radio. Despite its limitations, “An Air-
man Remembers” provided a lingering
visual content which made radio’s “A
Voyage By Air” easier to follow and
comprehend. The two were much closer
to a rounded experience than either could
have been alone.
DALE MILLER
FILMS
TWO-AND-HALF HOURS' TRAFFIC
The Counterfeit Traitor. Capitol,
Sydney.
LJow long is a film? It used to be 90
minutes, with an occasional “Gone
With the Wind” as a special exception.
Today, among American film makers at
any rate, the 90-minute framework no
longer seems to be accepted even as a
convention to be departed from. The
pursuit of size for its own sake as a
counter to the small screen and limited
time-periods of television has made it a
matter of course for any film with claims
to serious consideration (and some with-
out them) to sprawl over most of the
programme.
Artistically, and in terms of plain
entertainment, there is at least as much
loss in this as there is profit. Granted
that the 10-reel convention is arbitrary,
it works very well for most subjects, and
dictates a degree of conciseness that one
misses in some of the two and three hour
ordeals of today.
George Seaton’s “The Counterfeit
Traitor” requires nearly two and a half
hours of widescreen and Technicolor to
tell a spy story —a genre, one would
have thought, that calls for crisp, con-
centrated narration and the dramatic
effect of hard black and white.
But one must not pre-judge. “The
Counterfeit Traitor” is not an ordinary
spy-thriller; it does not claim to have
a tight, artifically constructed plot, since
it is based on what is alleged to be a
true World War II episode and has
something of the random pattern of real
life. And what it loses in sustained
tension it makes up in some degree
through the capacity that a long film
can have of involving the audience more
deeply in the lives and minds of the
participants. It also has a gentle scuffle
with some of the moral problems of
espionage and loyalty.
It is the story of an American born
Swedish citizen who is blackmailed by
Allied agents into becoming a spy—a
role he takes all the more reluctantly
since it involves posing in public as a
Nazi collaborator. Though he enters the
operation cynically a couple of face-to-
face encounters with Nazi atrocities
awaken his hatred or his conscience
(since the role is played in a doggedly
poker-faced manner by William Holden
one is not quite sure which) and he be-
comes emotionally involved despite him-
self in the dangerous and sometimes dis-
tasteful work he is doing.
The ramifications of the story turn
up some effective scenes and some
sharply delineated minor characters, the
most important and complex of these
being a wealthy German woman whose
religious convictions compel her first
to spy for the Allies, then to renounce
spying when she sees how problematical
the relation between ends and means in
wartime can be. (This role is skilfully
portrayed by Lilli Palmer.)
These questions of conscience and
motivation give the film more than
routine interest, but still not quite
enough interest to justify its length. And
length, as always, aggravates shortcom-
ings. One grows wearier than one might
have of Mr Holden's two expressions;
more irriated by the illusion-shattering
1960 s fashions; more conscious of the
tedious device of first-person sound-
track narrative (which always reminds
me irresistibly of the film satires that
used to feature in “Take It From Here”).
ARTIN LONG


ART
IN A CELESTIAL OMNIBUS
Louis Janies. Bonython Gallery, Ade-
laide.
Noel CouniJian. Bonython Gallery,
Adelaide.
T ouis James is an Adelaide artist, now
painting in Europe, and so we went
with proper regional pride to see the
selection of recent works which he has
sent out to us from London. They are
a series of restrained, richly-colored,
calligraphic abstracts made up of
bubbling, rounded units of pattern. Some
are painted on a cafe-au-lait background
which is given a blue geographical edge
like the coastline of a mapped land-
mass; others suggest an aerial view of a
city on a river-mouth; others again are
just present in their frames, nowhere.
The themes and titles are those of
romantic travelling. To the Moon, to
Cathay, to Hy Brasil, it doesn’t matter,
because they are all inside Louis James.
A Marco Polo in a celestial omnibus, he
keeps a diary which looks like the dood-
lings of Omar Khayyam as he journeys
by dreamy regression into the oriental
backblocks of his mind. The paintings
would appeal to most tastes in that they
have no harsh straight lines or angles,
no stark patches of primary color, no
desperate collagenous disorders of the
canvas.
Compared with others we have seen
recently in Adelaide, James in these
paintings is more like Edwin Tanner
than anyone. Both are fugue painters,
Mr Tanner among the twittering elec-
tronic polvsvllables of the scientists, Mr
James in the poets’ realms of gold.
Most of Noel Counihan’s heads and
figures are painted in a fierce orange-
pink light, as from an awful street lamp.
This highlights their situations, which
are exposed, vulnerable, and close to
the general purposes and consequences
of existence in our society, usually in its
less comfortable aspects. Typical sub-
jects are an unemployed man, a nude
girl, or an aborigine. They are literary
paintings, each one telling a simple story.
Thirty years ago they would have been
standard Public Gallery-fodder. Taste
will probably come round again, and one
should not dismiss them as being after
their time; they might be before it.
The difficulty was whether to take
Mr Counihan as painter or caricaturist.
He had in him a fierce feeling, but it
wasn’t clear that this was political
indignation. He offered no Daumier-like
caricatures of Top People. He was
obviously mighty proud of such bottom
people as had triumphed over their
adversities, but a strange gap showed
where he really offered no sympathy or
soft pity to those who were going under.
Yet, as happens in some shows, there
was one painting which so dominated all
the others with its authority and beauty
that one caught one’s breath. This was
a superb study of an aboriginal mother
and child, perfectly rhythmic, perfectly
colored, entirely reconciling the dual
problem of personality and species, and
bought bv some wise person before the
show opened. Beside it, the others
looked too like tired political posters.
EARLE HACKETT
JOY THROUGH STRENGTH
Clement Meadmore Sculptures. Terry
Clune Gallery.
Oriental Art. Newmans Gallery.
Clem Meadmore’s metal sculptures
reached a level of elegance beneath
the stress of planes meeting in space.
Now this calculation is overlaid with a
drive towards greater strength and monu-
mental breadth, greater airiness and
volume. In some uncanny way these
hollow chunks look solid, they float and
are heavy, their clash in space spells
some climatic event. Like stones stranded
by a receding glacier one is aware of
the strong forces that have pushed the
forms inevitably together.
Surface texture disquiets as if one
were looking at the sweating walls of a
crypt, uniformly black bubbled and
repellant. The forms have as it were
tired of these inherent order and are
imperceptibly trying to grow an animal
skin. In this summing up of contrasts or
contradictions Meadmore touches a
central mystery, the longing of contem-
porary civilisation to combine the secu-
rity of ruthless logic with the maximum
of sensuality and self-abandon. Architects
will continue to find satisfaction in this
sort of sculpture, its complimentary
liberation withheld as it is from their
own constructions.
Five of eleven sculptures are maquettes
or sketches while “Duclith 3” is grand
scaled and dominated by long horizontal,
rugged slabs. “Cross” and “Duolith 2”
become light and soaring but in vastly
different ways.
The Newman Gallery has brought
together one of the finest collections of
small scale sculptures, bronzes, pottery,
ivories, jade carvings, porcelain and
scrolls from the Far East, to be seen in
this country for a very long time. For
sheer quality there is little in Sydney to
equal or surpass the T’ang mortuary
figures, the Tibetan and Siamese Buddhas
or the rhythmic grace of the Hindu stone
Parvati of the 11th century. Chinese Han
dynasty stoneware, all superlatively pro-
portioned to the scale of a universal
measure, reaffirm transcendant spiritual
values that endears the art of the Far
East to an inseparable aesthetic religion
sense.
J. HENSHAW
SEVEN MANDALAS
Seven Mandalas. Lawrence Daws.
Skinner Gallery, Perth.
TTot red and yellow-cream, with black
under like rouge flambe porcelain,
dominate Daws’ present show, (his second
here) and it is not easy to see the
pictures individually, and apart from the
overwhelming dazzle that they generate
all together.
As before, the paintings are spare,
finely proportioned abstracts suggesting
landscapes, and as before the landscapes
are dominated by heavy opaque suns; but
these are no longer “stones, stone axes
or blocks”, they have become mandalas.
Or: almost become mandalas. A mandala
is, as Jung explains, a “circle” or a
“magic circle” in Sanskrit: and in Jungian
psychology a mandala as dream-content
stands for wholeness, psychic integration,
the completed self. In six of the pictures
that have “mandala” in their title there
is a broken circle, or horseshoes in black
dominating the sky. Mostly the horse-
shoes are vertical, but occasionally one is
horizontal, and casts a shadow like a
croissant shaped balloon: sometimes the
general outline is smoothly if incomple-
tely circular, sometimes it is more an-
gular, faceted. In the seventh picture, a
gouache called “Green Mandala”, there
is a full, unbroken ring; white over a
green “seascape.” With integration comes
calm and coolness.
The rest of the show varies more in
theme, and in color too, to some degree.
A great deal of it menaces the observer,
with crustacean and fowl forms, or
shapes ambiguously either, composed of
ribbons of tone on a red background:
In “Seasalter Cross Beach” one gets
the impression that Daws’ main purpose
is simply the exploration of quasi-organic
shape, and there is this element of ex-
ploration in all the oils, and in most of
the gouaches. But the abstraction is, as
well, powerfully expressionist, and the
clue that we are offered gives us readings
as good as we can hope for: the self in
search of wholeness in a barren place:
“The mind has nullarbors, plains of
ennui . . .”. Daws comes close to con-
quering this agrophobia for us: but one
feels that he was right to leave the
circles incomplete; there is more dream
material to come, still.
PATRICK HUTCHINGS


THE RED PAGE
HEROES AND COWARDS
A revival of hatred and guts
By PAUL SMITH
Catch-22. Joseph Heller. Cape. 265.
How many of us have said: they
just don’t write real satire any
more, not the scathing stuff full
of hatred and guts, not the excoriating
stuff of Juvenal and Swift. Perhaps Swift
with his straight-faced recommenda-
tion to the Irish that they eat their child-
ren (since English mercantile policy left
them only grass to eat) or, better still,
that they export them as a table delicacy
(sine the English left them with nothing
else to sell—perhaps Swift was the last
of the genuine satirists. Somehow, some-
where along the line since Swift’s time,
gentleness crept in, or Satire’s gentle
sister Irony.
Our hard-hitting critics of society to-
day are cartoonists like Thurber, or
evangelists like Billy Graham or jour-
nalists like Philip Wylie, whose Genera-
tion of Vipers I thought America would
never live down—but it did. Among
novelists, hatred has long been out of
fashion. Mark Twain and Anatole
France, satirists in their way, aimed
their shots to describe such pretty para-
bolas that one lost sight of the targets
watching the birdlike flights. Those
writers who have been brave enough,
and angry enough, to hate, have howled,
thinking with some logic that this was
the only way to get themselves heard.
But howling is not satire.
After reading Cctch-22 by Joseph
Heller, I would suggest that we have in
our midst again, not simply a writer,
but a genuine novelist who hates well
and strong and clear, one who does not
simply howl but who excoriates and
annihilates behind that blessed gift of a
straight face. Satire “holds human vice
and folly up to ridicule and scorn”. Mr
Heller has chosen the biggest of man’s
vices and follies —Wa... T_ the midst of a
Cold War, when so many of us have
been happily lulled into thinking that
Uncle Nick or Daddy Jack will take
care of us, Cctch-22 comes like a sting-
ing cold shower. But it also has the
effect we might get from a month with
the Desert Fathers and a barrel of
laughing gas.
Cctch-22 is about war, so it is about
courage and cowardice. The courageous
have the courage of McWatt, a bomber
pilot who treats his B-25 as cavalierly
as a boy treats his scooter; or they have
the courage of Colonel Cathcart:
“Colonel Cathcart had courage and
never hesitated to volunteer his men for
any target available. No target was too
dangerous for his group to attack, just
as no shot was too difficult for Appleby
to handle on the ping-pong table.”
Colonel Cathcart himself never leaves
the ground. Colonel Cathcart has his
feet on the ground in more ways than
one:
“. . . the colonel was certainly not
going to waste his time and energy
making love to beautiful women unless
there was something in it for him.”
The cowardly are represented by Doc
Daneeka, who had examined himself
pretty thoroughly and pronounced him-
self Four-F:
“I don’t want to make sacrifices; I
want to make dough”;
or Milo Minderbinder, who bombed his
own squadron for the Germans (cost
plus 6%) and was elected Mayor of
Palermo and seven other towns because
he had brought Scotch to Sicily. (Milo
also cornered cotton in Cairo and, when
he couldn’t unload it, covered it with
chocolate and sold it to the American
army as candy.)
But most cowardly—and thus most
reasonable —of all is Captain Yossarian,
who occupies the ambiguous position of
hero of this bitter and hilarious tale.
Yossarian is a big broad-shouldered
American, whom one comes to know
very little about except that he is in-
telligent and very like oneself or one’s
best friend. He has not resigned him-
self to die, and he spends the greater
part of the novel trying not to die. He is
the best man in the 256th Squadron at
evasive action and he is always going to
Doc Daneeka to ask to be relieved from
further missions. But this is Catch-22:
you can only get out of flying further
missions if you are insane, and if you
ask to be let out of further missions,
obviously you are not insane.
There is a horribly convincing logic
to Joseph Heller’s story of an American
bomber squadron on a Mediterranean
island. This is a crazy army where
lunch may be shish-kabob, asparagus
tips and cherries jubilee, since Milo
Minderbinder has cornered another mar-
ket; where tents are erected with the
flaps toward Washington, DC; where the
treatment at Sick-Call is gums painted
purple and toes painted gentian. And
the story is largely about insane oppor-
tunists or opportunistic madmen, like
Colonel Cathcart or Mr Major, who had
waited 14 years for a son so that he
might name him Major Major Major.
It was inevitable that an IBM machine
with a sense of humor should promote
Private Major Major Major to Major
Major Major Major.
But this is not a fey world, not Hy
Brazil or even Lilliputia. Its madness is
to be seen in any hierarchical office
from New York to Melbourne to Mos-
cow, and Joseph Heller’s years on Madi-
son Avenue must have reaffirmed the
chaos, the over-all immoral nuttiness
that he discovered in the American
army. Confound me, if you like, by
telling me Mr Heller never served in
the Forces: I wouldn't be knowing. But
Mr Heller knows all we need to know
about war. As he says about one of
his characters, he knows everything
about war
“except why Yossarian had to die while
Corporal Snark was allowed to live, or
why Corporal Snark had to die while
Yossarian was allowed to live.”
And this is the only question about
war that concerns all of us. The word-
ing of a creed, the boundary between
nations, a marriage contract violated,
coal mines confiscated, may concern
some of us, and all these things have
led to war; but what ought to concern
us most of all is the death of any single
individual. Catch-22 celebrates, as no
other novel I can remember, the in-
dividual over the collective mechanical
mind. To do this without sentimentality
or sententiousness is a rare achievement.
Anger may rear its head, bursting
through the comic fabric, and disgust
shores up the folly, but Heller rarely
nods in this tale.
"VTothtng, alas, is perfect and the
first two chapters of Catch-22 are
misleadingly juvenile undergraduate
humor extended perhaps to catch the
lightminded? But Mr Heller, once un-
der way, has tight control over his
material: characters and incidents. It is
inevitable in satire that we learn rr.uch
about the characters but hardly come to
know any deeply. Tom Jones is the
classic instance. But, out of a list of
22 US air force men and officers —and
I stopped cataloguing because I got too
interested in the story—-all are differen-
tiated in my mind by some line, trait or
description which sets each apart and so


populates Mr Heller’s world in breadth
if not in depth.
Those readers who look only for a
story in Catch-22 will eventually find it,
but since it is a story of hellish anarchy,
anarchy in the telling is what they must
expect. The author uses a film techni-
que where flashback and forward-throw
are indistinguishable. A line of dialogue
in one conversation will be taken up to
bring us backwards or forwards in time
to another entirely different conversa-
tion. When the action is swift-moving,
so are the sentences:
“It was a night of surprises for Apple-
by, who was as large as Yossarian and
as strong and who swung at Yossarian
as hard as he could with a punch that
flooded Chief White Halfoat with such
joyous excitement that he turned and
busted Colonel Moodus in the nose with
a punch that filled General Dreedle
with such mellow gratification that he
had Colonel Cathcart throw the chap-
lain out of the officers’ club and order-
ed Chief White Halfoat moved into Doc
Daneeka’s tent, where he could be
under a doctor’s care twenty-four hours
a day and be kept in good enough
physical condition to bust Colonel
Moodus in the nose again whenever
General Dreedle wanted him to.”
One sentence; seven characters involved.
When definition is made, its construc-
tion too is anarchical, but clear as glass:
“Justice is a knee in the gut from the
floor on the chin at night sneaky with
a knife brought up down on the maga-
zine of a battleship sandbagged under-
handed in the dark without a word of
warning. Garroting. That’s what justice
is when we’ve all got to be tough enough
and rough enough to fight Billy Pet-
rolle. From the hip. Get it?”
The above is from a colonel, another
colonel of the Cathcart ilk. Joseph Hel-
ler doesn’t like colonels. He doesn’t like
war. It is encouraging to have out of
America at this particular stage of his-
tory such a clear-sighted vision of man’s
most terrible sickness. I could wish that
Mr Kennedy would make this required
reading in the Pentagon, but I don’t
think he will. And if he did, I think
the colonels there would miss the point.
But many of Joseph Heller’s generation
will not miss the point, and—l hope—
of generations hereafter.
POLITICAL PARALYSIS
Then ... and now
By B. A. SANTAMARIA
Personal Experience: 1939-46 Lord
Casey. Constable. 445. 9d.
In a superficial sense, the London
“Economist’s” judgment of this book
is correct: a “slight and pleasant
book ... neatly fulfilling its author’s
modest intention ‘to fill in a few gaps for
the record.’ ” That is an English atti-
tude. An Australian will find much more
in Lord Casey’s third essay in remini-
scence “Personal Experience: 1939-46.”
It reflects the character of the author
in tone, in style and in content. The
tons is modest and self-effacing; the
style spare and episodic; the content sig-
nificant and stimulating.
As to content, the eight years of the
life of Australia’s former Minister for
External Affairs which are covered in
the present work were the years of
war and of ultimate victory—and also of
the near-overrunning of Australia. They
witnessed the unleashing of the Nazi
attack on Western Europe, the not-so-in-
credible Nazi-Soviet Pact, the historic
reversal of this policy with Hitler’s
attack on the Soviet Union, the entry
of Japan into the Pacific War, and the
final involvement of the United States, de-
spite the hesitations and the equivoca-
tions of American public opinion. Where
others could observe these earth-shaking
events only from the outside, Lord Casey
saw them from the inside and from three
corners of the world—as Australian
Minister in Washington, as British Mini-
ster of State in the Middle East, and
finally as Governor of Bengal. Intense
personal activity within the framework of
three major cultures—the European, the
Islamic and the Oriental, helped to create
an attitude as far removed from typically
Australian parochialism as it is possible
to conceive.
As to tone, in its very unobtrusiveness,
“Personal Experience,” to my mind,
clearly placed Casey in the category to
which he belongs. Here is a man deeply
interested in political affairs (in the more
correct meaning of the word “political”);
a diplomat par excellence (that is to say,
one capable of interpreting the needs and
values of his own country in such a way
as to commend them to the interest of
vastly more powerful allies); but inhabi-
ting a rare world that lies between the
realm of the politician and that of the
international civil servant.
I do not regard it as without signifi-
cance that Casey twice resigned from the
Australian Government and Parliament:
first, in 1940, to usher in the period
covered in the present study; second, in
1960, to witness his elevation to the
House of Lords. It is one of the defici-
encies of democratic politics that the
attainment of the Prime Ministership,
while it does not always require states-
manship, almost always requires a com-
bination of ruthlessness and cunning.
There is a type of man who, feeling the
duty to contribute to the political well-
being of society, nevertheless cannot
bring himself to cultivate this type of
personal quality almost essential to poli-
tical success. These men tend to become
the victims of their inferiors. Some, like
Christopher Hollis, simply gravitate out
of public life, whose parliamentary ex-
pression seems meaningless. Others, like
Lord Casey, solve the problem of how to
serve the political interests of the com-
munity without becoming too soiled in
the process. “Personal Experience,”
without ever explicitly describing the
reasons for Casey’s two resignations
from Parliamentary life does, I believe,
make both of them completely com-
prehensible.
The attractive personal characteristics
of the author emerge at every turn.
There is nowhere the desire to show that
his judgments were better than those of
Roosevelt or Churchill—a quality of
modesty and reticence which is found in
the wartime reminiscences of Alanbrooke
but not, unfortunately, in the autobio-
graphies of other wartime leaders. It
was not that he was only capable of
being the executant of other men’s ideas
and incapable of formulating his own;
“So far as I was personally concerned
with affairs over the war years, there
were some things which I would have
done differently—but wild horses would
not drag out of me what they were.”
This quality, so irritating to the journa-
list, was essential to the vocation which
Lord Casey embraced.
The limits of race and nationality are
clearly transcended: “All these posts
enabled me to get the myth of racial
superiority out of my system.” His
dealings with Gandhi, Nehru, Jinnah and
the other leaders of Hindu and Moslem
nationalism proved that these were not
mere words. In these dealings, he
showed a wisdom not universally mani-
fested by the British even when it was
clear that they were determined—or
almost determined—to transfer power in
the Indian sub-continent:
“In opposition to what I have written,
it may be said, ‘Why should we seek
opportunities for friendly contact with
rebels?’ I realise that to those who have
been through the experiences of 1942 and
earlier periods of trouble, it may well be
extremely difficult to hold out the hand
of friendship to these people. However, I
think we have to make our minds up
whether we are going to regard them as
rebels, or as some of the people to
whom we are promising to hand over
India in the relatively near future. I
am convinced that the more friendly
contacts we can have with them, the
easier the future is going to be.” (Page
233.)
There was also shrewd balance and
commonsense:


(ADVERTISEMENT)
ENGUIN NEWSLETTER
Africa is seldom out of the headlines
today and this month Penguins present a
new series THE PENGUIN AFRICAN
LIBRARY. This new series will explore
what goes on behind the headlines and
Embassy hand-outs, and build up an
authoritative picture of the nations and
peoples of the “youngest” continent. The
first four titles are African Profiles, a
reference book on leading personalities
and an outline of the history and politics
of all major territories; A Short History
of Africa by editors of the Journal of
African History, presenting the overall
story of the whole continent; Portugal in
Africa, the first concise survey of the
crisis in Angola and the emerging crisis
in Mozambique; The Arab Role in
Africa, the first concise survey of the
political interplay between Arabs and
Africans south of the Sahara, by a
specialist on French affairs.
For the first time in the Penguin crime
series there are two books by Dorothy
L. Sayers, Lord Peter Views the Body
introducing Lord Peter Wimsey, the
languid, aristocratic amateur in crime,
who in his way is as individual as
Sherlock Holmes himself, and Hangman’s
Holiday, a rich and varied selection of
Sayers’ detection. Two other crimes are
Welcome Death by Glyn Daniel, an
excellent and complicated intellectual
puzzle, with both writing and genuine
detection far ahead of the average, and
by A. E. Mason At The Villa Rose in
which Inspector Hanaud solves an Anglo-
French murder problem in one of the
classic detective stories of all time.
The second novel in Anthony Powell’s
Music of Time sequence, A Buyer’s
Market, is available this month. Public
school and university over, Nick Jen-
kins, narrator of this novel, is in the
world of London dances and country
house parties in the ’2os. Other Penguin
fiction includes the winner of the James
Tait Memorial Prize for 1961, Jennifer
Dawson’s The Ha Ha, a most moving
and readable book about insanity. An-
other prize winner, Nadine Gordimer,
whose latest collection won the W. H.
Smith Literary Award, gives us a
further twenty-one stories in Soft Voice
of the Serpent. A collection of Scott
Fitzgerald’s short stories headed by A
Diamond as Big as The Ritz is available
as a Modern Classic together with
Carson McCuller The Member of the
Wedding, in which the author spreads
before us the three phases of a weekend
crisis in the life of a motherless 12-
year-old.
Pelicans include Forster’s Aspects of
the Novel, originally a course of Clark
Lectures at Cambridge, is full of
Forster’s habitual wit and wisdom. He
makes a valuable contribution to
criticism in analysing the various com-
ponents and tendencies of the novel as
an art-form. In Prehistoric Crete the
author’s new work supplements and
amends Evans and Pendlebury in the
light of the Linear B decipherment and
other recent discoveries.
Two stories for children from the
unique pen of one of America’s greatest
humourists, James Thurber, The Thir-
teen Clocks and the Wonderful O,
superbly illustrated by Ronald Searle,
are in Puffins this month, and a fresh
Penguin selection from the work of the
children’s favourite English poet, Walter
de la Mare, is also in Puffins.
At long last a new volume in the
PELICAN HISTORY OF ART is avail-
able, The Art and Architecture of
Ancient America. This volume of the
History describes the arts and archi-
tecture of the pre-Columbian peoples in
America, from Mexico to Peru, in-
cluding the amazing Aztecs. There are
168 pages of plates, 120 drawings in
the text, maps of the entire area,
chronological tables, and a glossary of
terms.
For Crossword fans there is a new
selection compiled by Alan Cash in The
Sixth Penguin Crossword Puzzle Book.
A complete list of this month’s new
Penguins is shown opposite; they are
all available now at your usual book-
seller or newsagent.
New A Penguins
h. E. BATES
The Feast of July (5s 6d)
VICKI BAUM
Ballerina (8s 6d)
lENNIFER DAWSON
The Ha Ha (5s 6d)
NADINE GORDIMER
Soft Voice of the Serpent (5s 6d)
FRANCES PARKINSON KEYES
The Career of David Noble (5s 6d)
IRIS MURDOCH
The Flight from the Enchanter (5s 6d)
DAPHNE DU MAURIER
The Scapegoat (5s 6d)
ANTHONY POWELL
A Buyer’s Market (6s)
GLYN DANIEL
Welcome Death (5s 6d)
A. E. W. MASON
At the Villa Rose (ss)
DOROTHY L. SAYERS
Lord Peter Views the Body (5s 6d)
DOROTHY L. SAYERS
Hangman’s Holiday (5s 6d)
E. M. FORSTER
Aspects of the Novel (5s 6d)
G. VERMES
The Dead Sea Scrolls in English (7s)
R. W. HUTCHINSON
Prehistoric Crete (17s 6d)
M. D. VERNON
The Psychology of Perception (7s 6d)
F. SCOTT FITZGERALD
The Diamond as Big as The Ritz
and Other Stories (5s 6d)
CARSON McCULLERS
The Member of the Wedding (5s 6d)
The Sixth Penguin Crossword
Puzzle Book (5s 6d)
GEORGE KUBLER
The Art and Architecture of Ancient
America (1265)
WALTER DE LA MARE
Selected Poems (6s)
lAMES THURBER
The Thirteen Clocks and the
Wonderful O (6s)
RONALD SEGAL
African Profiles (8s 6d)
ROLAND OLIVER AND J. D. FAGE
A Short History of Africa (7s 6d)
lAMES DUFFY
Portugal in Africa (7s)
lACQUES BAULIN
The Arab Role in Africa (5s 6d)
sdf
PENGUINS FOR
GOOD READING


“In the ordinary course of events, the
administration of a country does not
break down. The worst that happens is
that it deteriorates; wrong decisions are
made on a series of levels, and the speed
of ach'cvement does not keep pace with
the oncoming problems. However, in
Bengal, worse may befall. The food
problem is always with us, and if the
administration is unable to cope with it,
for the variety of reasons that I have
given, you may well get what happened
in 1943, which is as near a breakdown
as no matter.” (Pages 213-4.)
It was by virtue of these outstanding
human qualities that Australia benefited,
as it has not benefited before or since,
in winning the practical support of the
United States, at a moment when
America might easily have thought Aus-
tralia too remote for her concern.
Our predicament in December 1941
is too often forgotten. Forgotten is the
statement of American Lend-Lease Ad-
ministrator, Wasserman, in the diary
entry he made on his arrival in this
country:
“On the first night of my arrival in
Australia, I was taken to a hotel in
Sydney where a suite had been prepared
for me. Almost immediately upon my
arrival there, one of the Ministers came
to see me. . . He locked the door and in
an awed whisper said to me, ‘Mr Wasser-
man, Australia is completely defenseless.
In my opinion, we have three more
weeks of liberty, after which time the
Japanese invasion will commence.’ The
whole country was in a panic and that
panic was not stopped until General
Douglas MacArthur’s dramatic appear-
ance which almost overnight changed the
atmosphere of the whole country from
one of fear to one of hope and action.”
In retrospect, it appears perfectly
natural that MacArthur should have
been sent to Australia. But this was far
from inevitable, as Lord Casey makes
clear at an early stage in his narrative:
“When I presented myself and my
credentials to President Roosevelt, I
asked him, in suitable terms, if he would
be good enough to tell me the attitude
of the United States towards Australia,
in the circumstances that then existed. He
knew what I meant, and in reply he said
that some little time before he had asked
his Cabinet to consider what should be
the attitude of the United States in
three hypothetical situations—if Canada
were to be attacked, if one or other of
the Latin American republics were
attacked, or if Australia or New Zealand
were attacked. His Cabinet had agreed
that the United States could not be in-
different to Canada, and had authorised
him to make a public statement to that
effect. In consequence, he said in effect
that the United States would spring to the
aid of Canada if she were attacked. In
respect of the Latin American republics,
the element of distance began to enter in,
but the certainty of American intervention
might be said to increase in respect of the
Central and South American republics
that were geographically closer to the
United States. So far as Australia and
New Zealand were concerned, the answer
was that the element of distance denoted
a declining interest on the part of the
United States. The President said it in a
kindly and less direct way than this, but
this was clearly what he meant. How-
ever, fortunately, this attitude was to
alter dramatically” (pp. 10-11).
That the detachment implicit in this
statement was not the ultimate policy of
the United States vis-a-vis Australia owed
a good deal to circumstances. It also
owed much to the personal qualities of
Australia’s representative in Washing-
ton. It was by virtue of the human
qualities referred to that Ir became the
familiar friend of Harry Hopkins, Cor-
dell Hull, Frankfurter and others, whose
influence was so powerful in the success
of the Australian Minister’s mission.
Even a slight acquaintance with Lord
Casey makes one understand the impor-
tance he attaches to personal, face-to-
face relationships. This interpretation of
diplomacy worked wonders for the prac-
tical interests of his country.
“Personal Experience” makes no
attempt to exceed the category of per-
sonal reminiscence for the record. Yet it
demonstrates insights into the primary
Australian problem of security and sur-
vival which arouses the hope that, in
another work, the author will devote his
talents to a systematic exposition of the
necessary ends of Australia’s foreign and
domestic policy. For in the events which
Lord Casey relates there are so many
intimations of Australia’s probable future
that their significance should be related
to the purposes of Australian policy
today.
At a moment when we are fighting to
keep the last morsel of the former
French principality of Indo-China out of
Communist or neutralist hands, the
events of the last weeks of 1940 are
surely not unimportant:
“Towards the end of 1940, it became
clear that Japanese interest in Indo-China
was not to be confined to the north, in
the vicinity of China. They were pene-
trating south, and it was realised that
Japan was probably preparing to use
Indo-China as a base for an attack on
Malaya or Singapore or Borneo or the
Netherlands East Indies. There was doubt
as to the direction the Japanese south-
ward drive would take, but little doubt,
late in 1940, that some such vigorous
southward drive was in preparation.
“In September it became clear that the
Japanese were in contact with ambitious
elements in the Government of Thailand,
and that it was being suggested to the
Thais that the situation in South-East
Asia might enable them to recover those
parts of Laos and Cambodia that had
been ceded to France by Thailand in the
past. The inability of Britain or the
United States to help Thailand with mate-
rial military aid fed the flames of this
situation. The Thai leaders had no op-
tion but to come to terms with Japan;
indeed, they believed it was in their
national interests to do so. Japan was
not slow to offer military aircraft and
much else to Thailand. Supplies were
delivered in increasing quantity in
November and December 1940. By not-
very-slow degrees, Thailand was drawn
into the Japanese orbit, until in mid-
December 1940 a treaty of friendship was
signed between Japan and Thailand. So
Thailand was in the Japanese bag.” (Page
•39.)
Are these facts irrelevant to Australia’s
present problem?
It was a defeated France which was
forced to yield her place in Indo-China
to the Japanese. But what had
brought France to this bitter pass?
“Alex St L. Leger, who had succeeded
Berthelot as head of the French Foreign
Service ten years before, called on me
in Washington on November 29th, 1940.
I asked him for his explanation of the
fall of France. He said he believed it
had arisen principally from a progressive
deterioration in French public life that
had become evident some years before.
He had seen the beginning of the end
when Flandin, French Foreign Minister
in 1936, had refused to resist the German
re-entry into the Rhineland. He (Leger)
had tendered his resignation at that time.
This was a month before the election
at which Blum had come into power.
Hitler had chosen his time well. He had
counted on the psychological factor that
neither of the principal French political
sides would risk a major conflict just be-
fore an election” (p. 48).
Is there any note of similarity between
the “progressive deterioration” of
France’s political will and the paralysis
of the political process in Australia at
the present moment?
Lord Casey is perhaps too modest to
lecture us. But his position as an elder
statesman and his freedom from the
pursuit of political advancement clearly
fit him for the task of explaining the
facts of life to a new generation of Aus-
tralians who were not even born in the
critical years of which he writes so well.
Slow Coach
Look you run like
this your head well
back your arms close to
your sides that’s it your knees
well up that’s it that’s it
now forward on your
toes as if
the road’s red-hot you’re
doing fine, just
fine.
Like this you
run no hurry past
the house where you
no doubt were born, the little
and there’s Mum, don’t wave
she knows you’re running
for dear life: remember speech-night
it’s a race Miss Dowson said
the whole school sang “So run
ye may obtain . .
Here down this
road we’re nearly
there why look they’ve got
the flags out haven’t they?
You go on now
you’ve got the hang of it.
I’ll follow.
BRUCE DAWE


AH the
family
will love
I
/.
Everybody’s
Australia's best booklist service!
MARY MARTIN BOOKSHOP
DA COSTA BUILDING
ADELAIDE —SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Jk Are you too busy, or too remote geographically, to spend much time in bookshops?
H© If so, you should become a Mary Martin booklister. Lawyers, doctors, schoolteachers,
f businessmen, mothers of ten, country people, thousands of them, keep in touch with
the world of books each month through the famous (or notorious) Mary Martin booklists.
PENGUIN LISTS; GREY ARROW AND OTHER PAPERBACK LISTS; SPECIAL BARGAINS AND
REMAINDERS; CRITICAL AND CONTROVERSIAL SURVEYS OF NEW BOOKS TO ARRIVE IN
AUSTRALIA; IT'S THE ONLY COMPREHENSIVE MONTHLY SERVICE IN AUSTRALIA.
DEPARTMENT OF RATBAGGERY. NUTS IN A BOOKSHOP? PART OF MARY MARTIN'S
DUBIOUS CHARM IS THE SELLING OF UNUSUAL CULTURAL ITEMS-FROM MACADAMIA
NUTS, EARL GREY AND ALL KINDS OF PRESTIGE TEAS, INDIAN PEASANT HANDCRAFTS,
AUTHENTIC ABORIGINAL BARK PAINTINGS, TO VERSE - SPEAKING RECORDS AND
ART PRINTS.
WOULD YOU CARE TO JOIN THE MONTHLY FUN?
Don't be suspicious. This is not one of those obscure mail-order gimmicks. Mary Martin
Bookshop has been a national institution in the Australian literary scene for 17 years.
Just send 5/- as an annual contribution towards postage. (What! Pay to receive advertising
material!). Very few people seem to have regretted it; and to make sure you get
your money's worth by return of mail we will send you also a sample copy of the
superb critical monthly "AUSTRALIAN BOOK REVIEW."
I enclose 5/- plus exchange to receive your booklist service.
NAME
ADDRESS
STATE
THE MYSTERIOUS,
UNSETTLING STRANGER
The Cruel Field. John Naish. Hut-
chinson. 20s.
A Disturbing Influence. Julian Mit-
chell. Hutchinson. 20s.
The Big Season. Maurice Gee. Hut-
chinson. 20s.
Tt’s pretty easy for an Australian
writer to have his first book more or
less overlooked. At least I cannot re-
member having heard much of John
Naish’s autobiography, “The Clean
Breast”, and on the back of his new
novel the publisher quotes only from
English reviews. But after reading “The
Cruel Field” I shall make it my business
to get hold of“ The Clean Breast” which,
at least according to The Times Liter cry
Supplement, falls in the same special
category, midway between fact and fic-
tion, as Calder Marshall’s “The Mask of
My Youth” and Dylan Thomas’ “Por-
trait of the Artist as a Young Dog”.
“The Cruel Field” also falls between
fact and fiction, as many novels do
nowadays, usually leaving a sense of
dissatisfaction. But this one satisfies,
because Naish handles fact as an artist
does. His story is set on the Queens-
land canefields, as firmly as Jean
Devanney’s “Sugar Haven”. The most
important character is Emery, a black
sheep Englishman apparently a good
deal of the author has gone into him—
who finds his way into a gang of cane
cutters. Their lives are traced through
one harsh harvest. There is a subdued
love interest, centering around a posi-
tively evil nurse and a French-born bar-
maid, but more importantly a drama of
rivalry between two sets of brothers, one
Italian and the other Australian.
At first “The Cruel Field” presents
itself as another of the tough-talking
school of novels about the north. Then
the sheer forcefulness of the atmosphere,
fully realised, starts to grip you, and it
dawns on the reader that the toughness
is genuine, as in Jack London, with the
author using it to get a convincing mes-
sage across. It is, of course, the mes-
sage of mateship, but with a difference.
Here it stands for unsentimental love,
not for spiritual homosexuality.
In John Naish’s prose the cane and
the men who cut it merge and become
one: as a writer of toil he compares
with the best in Australia. Unfortu-
nately, while he is also a good psy-
chologist, the very momentum of his
style somehow carries him over, rather
than through, some of his characters.
This applies especially to the women
and to Mark Westcott, a member of the
gang who has served a short term in
gaol. The actuality content is so authen-
tic and so powerful that it crowds human
relationships to the edge of the canvass.
“The Big Season” is a first novel by a
New Zealander. Maurice Gee is known
for some of his short stories, and he is
probably not meant to be a novelist. His
theme needs a professional touch to save
it from being trite. It concerns Rob
Andrews, a rather sensitive but out-
wardly well adjusted young man in a
stuffy New Zealand town which lives
and breathes rugby football, suggesting
that New Zealand is a place to be
avoided. Through contact with the
world of Bill Walters, an outsider, a
criminal and a human being by con-
trast with the rest of Wainui, Rob dis-
covers that he, too, does not fit into his
environment. He breaks from the town,
his rugger team, his family and his girl.
The mysterious, unsettling stranger is
a stock-character of the modern novel.
Mauric Gee does not begin to know
him, hence he does not know Rob An-
drews as the true novelist knows his
people. The book, however, fails only
relatively. It does not betoken lack of
talent as much as lack of judgment.
This author needs either a smaller or a
much bigger frame to do better.
Julian Mitchell, the most sophisticated
of this trio, knows that there’s a certain
way of using the short story approach
to get a novel-like effect. (Witness
Thornton Wilder.) He, too, gives us a
predatory stranger, David, nephew of an


English country vicar into whose sleepy
town he erupts. The mystique still re-
mains trite, but the reading is very good.
A set of almost independent tales is
finally drawn together into a plausible
whole, and we feel that for all its com-
monplace smallness there is something
both original and universal about the
folk of Cartersfield particularly their
love-making such as we miss in
Wainui.
DAVID MARTIN
THE POLITICAL SCIENCE BOOM
Groups in Theory and Practice. Peter
Loveday and lan Campbell. F. W.
Cheshire. 15s.
Paradoxically acamedic political
science has bloomed and boomed
round the western world since Hitler’s
War, a period when popular interest in
politics has faded to a shadow of its
pre-War vigour. Not least among the
competitors for publication space have
been the exponents and critics of “group
theories” of politics, and it is a symptom
of the liveliness of Sydney University’s
Department of Government that Profes-
sor Spann and Mr Henry Mayer early
led their students and younger colleagues
into empirical and theoretical adven-
tures among the “groups”, especially the
pressure groups. As joint editors, they
have rather naturally chosen two of the
resulting essays in this field for the first
of their new monograph series, the
“Sydney Studies in Politics”.
Peter Loveday’s “Group Theory”
strikes shrewd blows in the Battle of
Bentley a largely verbal argument,
this, about whether all political events
can be explained in terms of the pressures
and counter-pressures of human groups
upon each other. As an alternative to the
conventional tabulations of the powers
and structure of legislatures, executives
and judiciaries, the American maverick
political scientist, Arthur Bentley, offered
this approach as long ago as 1908 and
then was forgotten until the post-war
political science boom.
Loveday’s essay is important. He is
pretty successful in rescuing Bentley from
the cruder misunderst .ndings of his
theory, notably the heresy that it ascribed
all significant influence in politics to
private pressure groups, and reduced the
formal institutions of government to
mere playthings of these social forces.
Having shown, on the contrary, that the
theory numbers parliaments, parties,
bureaucracies and law courts among the
contending groups, Loveday turns his
own guns on Bentleyism especially,
for example, on its awkward distinction
between “representative” groups (parties,
associations, lobbies) and “underlying”
groups or “interests” (farmers, manufac-
turers, consumers).
But Loveday’s essay is important in
two other ways. First, he seems to argue
the groups right out of group theory,
leaving it a theory of interests and pres-
sures a consummation this reviewer
has modestly suggested in another place.
Second, Mr Loveday explicitly, if
startlingly, endorses one critic’s view that
attempts to test the general theory of
groups by “applying” it carefully in field
situations are “likely to be misleading
and fruitless”!
view seems to be confirmed by
A lan Campbell’s account of ustralian
pressure groups and their relationship to
political parties and institutions between
1890 and 1910, for it might well have
been written entirely without benefit of
Bentley—or of Loveday.
On the contrary, Mr Campbell’s expla-
nations are like those of any traditional
historian, except for one ambiguity. Since
his concluding Summary consists entirely
in listing generalisations, he would
seem to be more interested in the gene-
ralisations than in the events they are
supposed to explain. Yet most of his
text is a factual account of the historical
developments. So we are never quite
sure whether he is wanting to apply con-
firmed theory to the explanation of these
developments, or to test theoretical
hypotheses in the crucible of ordered
facts.
Actually, he has done neither of these
things, but simply illustrated a number of
arbitrary generalisations by a collection
of historical examples.
His examples are numerous and strik-
ing, and the generalisations provide an
ordrely framework for their expositions.
But are the generalisations themselves
novel or profound? “Pressure groups
will seek access to such sectors of the
decision-making process as are —or are
likely to be actively concerned with
matters affecting the interests of the
groups.” Hence in the early years of
federation, when Parliament and Cabinet
were much more important as decision-
making centres than the bureaucracy,
“the top of Bourke Street, Melbourne,
swarmed with touts and lobbyists” with
political backgrounds while the lobby-
ist nowadays is mostly ex-administrative
or professional and presumably haunts
the Administrative Blocks in Canberra.
Mr Campbell’s research has been ener-
getic and his interpretations are neat. But
which is the more interesting proposition:
that Othello killed Desdemona, or that
jealousy is an unreasoning passion tend-
ing to discharge in violence? One’s
preference, I suppose, will always be a
matter of temperament.
R. S. PARKER
FURS & FEATHERS
Australian Animals and Birds. Sheila
Hawkins. Angus and Robertson.
18s. 6d.
TJere’s a welcoi .ing and enchanting
picture-book for the young; aged,
immaterial; say, from five to ninety-five,
inclusive. Some 60 pages of alternate
color and black-and-white double-page
spreads of the artist-author’s depictions
of more than three times that number
of our furred and feathered natives; re-
presentative of the everyday familiar and
the little-known rare ones, with letter-
press descriptions as informative and en-
gaging as the drawings. Midway inter-
lude of lizards and bats tailing up the
furry fellows; and the conclusive support
of two authoritative introductions, one
for the beasties and one for the birds,
by Alec Chisholm, who’s been fraternis-
ing with all these creatures for so long
that by now they must know him almost
as well as he knows them.
“Banjo” Paterson, harking back to
the Flood, called them “the animals
Noah forgot”. Currently approved
scientific interpretations dissent. One
version contends that, on sighting a
mum ’roo approaching with pouched
joey, a possum climbing up its own tail,
a platypus surfacing for a breather and
a ballet of brolgas doing the twist, Noah
naturally thought he was seeing things,
and shoved off pronto, staying on the
water wagon for forty days and forty
nights, a record. Another version,
equally convincing, holds that Noah,
hearing on his transistor the names bur-
dened on to some of these creatures,
realised that they would swamp any ark
designed to carry nothing heavier than
elephants; e.g., Yellow-bellied Glider,
Long-nosed Bandicoot, Yellow-footed
Marsupial Mouse, Flat-skulled Mar-
supial Mouse, Eastern Pouched Jerboa,
Stick-nest Rat, Yellow-bellied Free-
tailed Bat, Chocolate Wattled Bat,
Spine-billed Honeyeater, Yellow-billed
Spoonbill, and the Spangled Drongo; to
which should be appended appropriate
anathema on whatever Fat-headed Half-
wit Drongo started the fashion of
saddling these creatures with such un-
holy monickers.
Still, in this Sheila Hawkins’ ark there
are also the compensating other names
(mostly of abo origin) that fit their
wearers near to perfection. Her depic-
tions have the joint merits of a friendly
approach and accuracy; and Noah’s
floating zoo held nothing more quaint
than the oddities in her assorted ark-
load, nothing more beautiful than the
loveliest of these, or (perhaps overall
their most distinctive quality) nothing
more gentle than the whole groups of
gentleness itself among them.
CECIL MANN


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
Japanese Trade Pact a Challenge
T>y the end of this year, or very early in 1963, Australia and
Japan should be ready to sign a new trade agreement.
Discussions now taking place must inevitably embody the great
changes in attitudes and trading patterns which have occurred
since the existing agreement was negotiated in 1957. What
seems likely to emerge from Europe, as the Common Market
takes shape, is of crucial importance for both countries.
For Japan, as Australia, has also in recent years started to
move further away from the European orbit, so far as exports
are concerned. Many European countries, though, Britain in-
cluded, are still intent upon cultivating the rapidly expansive
Japanese market—the outcome of one of the most remarkable
“economic miracles” the world has ever seen.
In the six years between 1955 and 1960 Japan more than
doubled its industrial output. Growth rates during the last
five years have averaged about 10 p.c. In spite of some
apprehension induced by last year’s internal and external
difficulties, the Japanese Government remains highly confident
of achieving the targets set by the “New Long-range Economic
Plan of Japan (1961-70)”.
Its modest aim is to double the gross national product by
1970!
Official and private (especially banking) sources have lately
tended to draw attention to what they call an “overheating” of
Japan’s economy. Yet production increases march ahead—
industrial and mining by almost 21 p.c. during the 1961 fiscal
year—leading to the well-known balance-of-payments problems,
mounting inventories and a concomitant lift in consumer prices.
Against this too fleetingly sketched background, one other
fresh and vital element must be considered—also of profound
importance for Australia. Still with considerable elan, Japan
is to embark upon its long-bruited liberalisation of imports next
month, October.
T<his move appears to have been instigated by earlier sug-
A gestions stemming from the International Monetary Fund,
but the Japanese Government feels it is putting the economy
more in line with current world trading trends.
Many commentators welcome these import developments for
the sharpening effect they will exert internally, since large
areas of Japanese industry certainly need heightened com-
petition. For Australia, the slant looks rather different. Our
budding exporters will necessarily face wider and keener
rivalry.
The new programme for imports is often expressed as a
90 p.c. liberalisation and presumably means a freeing of that
percentage (by value) of Japan’s import spending in 1959.
One eye, however, is assuredly directing the praiseworthy
changes into some areas least harmful to domestic producers
and a few tariffs have been lifted to reverse descending quotas.
But the “Long-range Plan” contains one sentence which may
raise echoes in this country: “While it is advisable to give
protection to incipient industries which have potentialities for
development . . . the government should refrain from giving
relief to declining ones.”
The Japan which can afford to meet the implications of
such a precept is obviously far from the limited and under-
nourished economy of a relatively short time ago. Its standards
of efficiency and development are being set high.
So much for a brief glance at the imports climate. Japan’s
concurrently planned export drive is at least of equal interest.
In line with the behavior of mature economies, Japan wishes
to direct its exports into machinery, metals, metal products and
chemicals—heavy industrials. Here is plainly a structure mov-
ing away from a previous reliance on light industry. Australia
may well rejoice that the old bogey of textile flooding in
particular may look less and less frightening.
'V[ot, of course, that this situation proved as fearsome as
some observers expected under the 1957 agreement. Any
volumes or article from Japan threatening us locally was
fairly amenable to mutual consultation to remove the strain.
It is from this point of what might be loosely called good
conduct that Japan doubtless feels justified in asking for less
direct discrimination against her in the forthcoming agreement.
Especially, Japan will request, and this request will certainly
be granted, to be recognised as a full trading partner in accord
with the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT).
A one-sided capacity for discrimination will be removed and
most likely be replaced by a form of guarantee. Such a
bargaining structure surely befits the stature and mutual import-
ance of future Australian-Japanese trade.
There is no need to labor the pattern of fhis mutual depend-
ence and its emergence from the trading impetus of both
countries. Japan and Australia have much to give each other
and the direction of Australian trade must learn more and
more to accommodate itself to the Asian sector of world
activity.
We have grown used to Japanese markets for our raw
materials—wool, copper, hides, wheat. Our iron ore may soon
be feeding Japan’s extensive steel industry. Bauxite also is
to be taken by Japan.
Yet under the rapidly improving Japanese standards of
living (and the Ten-year Plan embraces a further raising of
individual real incomes), there can also develop an interest
in Australian consumer products. Westernisation of Japanese
habits grows more obvious and our manufacturers should be
ready to build upon this trend.
More detailed features and constituents of the new trade
agreement may be expected to be made known soon. Both
countries must see in it the growth of fresh opportunities.
Australia has been mouthing a plenitude of export slogans
recently. Japan’s drive has become remarkable by any standards.
It is up to local industry to match it by precept and example.


BUSINESS TOPICS
HOW THE CSB INFLUENCES
RURAL BANK PROFITS
TTalf the net profits of the Commonwealth Savings Bank in
NSW are remitted to the Rural Bank of NSW under the
Savings Bank Amalgamation Act of 1931.
Similar type schemes operate under agreement in Tasmania
and Queensland. This is the price the Federal bank has to
pay for “taking over” State savings banks.
The Rural Bank of NSW, a State instrumentality, has
depended considerably on this “windfall”. The amounts
involved appear to exceed that bank’s disclosed profit every
year.
For instance, in its latest accounts, the Rural Bank credits
itself with <£669,019 from this source. This, by the way,
does not appear to be a regular annual payment. No such
figure was forthcoming in the previous four years.
But profits of the Rural Bank have totalled less than the
£669,000 in the last four years. It is reasonable, then, to
place considerable emphasis on the importance of this arrange-
ment to the Rural Bank.
Being so, the annual profit of the Commonwealth Savings
Bank in NSW is of importance to the Rural Bank. After
all, its “special reserve” (which is really the payments from
the CSB) amounted to £8.7 million at June 30 last—more
than 60 p.c. of the Bank’s total reserves.
/\ne striking fact emerged from a perusal this week of the
annual accounts of the Commonwealth Banking Corpora-
tion. The disclosed profit of its Commonwealth Savings Bank
slumped from £2,183,948 to £1,435,966 in the year to
June 30.
This was the lowest profit, as such, for many a year—despite
the fact that deposits held were at a record £873 million at
year s end; that 790 branches were in operation, against 439
ten years earlier; that cash transactions involved £2OOO million.
The Bank in its report does not satisfactorily explain why
its profit is at such a reduced figure. However, it does show
that expenses rose from £10.36 million to £ll.lB million
in a year in which earnings (net after interest, etc.) held
reasonably steady at £12.79 million.
Purists may rightly assert that these expenses appear to
include expansion costs, or, at worst, could include expenses
more directly a result of Commonwealth Trading Bank activi-
ty 5 after all, both units share premises and staff in many
cases.
There is scope in the Bank Corporation’s structure—as pub-
lished—to load the expenses one way or the other. Indeed,
there is reason why the Bank should follow a flexible line.
Statutory payments which the Trading Bank are required to
make include a virtual income tax payment at the ruling rate.
Savings Bank profit in three States is more heavily com-
mitted than that of its sister trading bank, and loading of
expenses to reduce that commitment appears legitimate.
But, what of the Rural Bank? If disclosed profit of the
Commonwealth Savings Bank in NSW has fallen in the same
pattern as it has for the whole of Australia —and, there is
nothing to suggest otherwise—then the Rural Bank is not
going to receive anything like it has in the past.
The Savings Bank report shows that the amounts due to
be settled under amalgamation agreements for the 1961-62
year is £277,078. Last year, the comparative settlement was
£642,108.
The question of the validity of the bank’s profit—and, hence,
its settlement on the Rural Bank—has not been raised yet.
Perhaps the need to bring the matter up will be deferred until
next year’s Commonwealth Banking Corporation report is
available.
But, it does appear as if the definitions under the amal-
gamation agreements could be more closely studied by those
who depend on what “profit” really means.
The Rural Bank operation is geared to receipt of more sub-
stantial settlement than it appears likely to get from the 1961-62
year of the Savings Bank.
GOLD PRICE RISE
UNRESOLVED, BUT...
fI7ESTERN Mining Corporation chairman (Mr G. Lindesay
Clark) put the right emphasis on the world-wide sug-
gestions of a coming increase in the price of gold at his
company’s annual meeting last Friday. The benefits that
such a price movement would bring to Australian gold miners
are obvious. Mr Lindesay Clark’s words are worthy of
recording for this fact alone, let alone his personal acumen
and experience in gold markets.
“In regard to gold price, all that can be said is that the
pressure which many people believe would be greatly relieved
by an increase in the price of gold is building up. There is
a need for greatly increased international liquidity, for which
no satisfactory alternative to gold has yet been evolved.
Whether the great contribution that a massive increase in the
price of gold could make to these problems will ultimately
cause the rise to take place remains unresolved.”
Mr Lindesay Clark, then, is dispassionately posing inter-
national liquidity (or lack of it) as the pivot around which
the gold price must revolve. In the absence of an alternative
to gold, it seems clear that a price rise in gold is nearer than
most observers have suggested. The demurrer is the world
political situation and the obvious target that a “massive
increase in the United States gold price would give Comecon
countries, particularly the USSR.
LOTS AND LOTS OF
REFRIGERATORS, ETC.
Fairly indicative of the recovery in Australia’s manufacturing
industries, 23,000 domestic refrigerators came off produc-
tion lines in August—ssoo more than in August, 1961, and
only 2200 below the “over production” figure established in
August, 1960.
Much the same story is seen in the other durable consumer
goods made locally. Washing machines, for instance, totalled
21,300 in August, against 20,100 a year earlier. Surely being
overproduced again, some 37,900 new TV sets came out of
factories in August, 10,600 more than in August, 1961, and
only some 10,000 below the 1960 figures established before
new saturation point was evident in the country.
Textiles continue to show up well compared with last year’s
depressed activity. Cotton yarn production, for instance,
totalled 4.5 million lb. in August, against 3.1 million lb. in
August, 1961.
Hardly reflecting depressed confidence in the future, 27,800
car bodies were produced in August—almost double the
14,500 built in August, 1961.
Production statistics paint a bright picture. The unknown
is the current sales activity, which must apparently be well
above the estimated level placed on it. Stock replacement—
consequent to the run down in stocks by reduced production
last year—would not account for such large increases in
output, particularly in consumer goods.
Basic materials have remained fairly high throughout the


Invest in progress
and the
ever-growing demand
for more power
90 building projects—valued at £l2O millions —some built,
some under construction, others planned and approved. This
is the tremendous growth rate of the inner Sydney city area
alone. In every phase of this, and other developments,
electric power is INDISPENSABLE. That is why an invest-
ment in electricity offers maximum security.
Gilt-edged S.C.C. loans supply many thousands of private
investors, trustees and executors with regular interest and
maximum security.
THE SYDNEY
COUNTY COUNCIL
5\% LOAN-NOW OPEN
AN AUTHORISED TRUSTEE INVESTMENT
GUARANTEED BY THE
GOVERNMENT OF N.S.W.
Your S.C.C. investment earns you £5/7/6 a year for every £lOO
invested. Interest is paid every 6 months. Capital is repayable
in full at the end of 8, 10, 15 or 20 years.
Holders of S.C.C. Loans No. 53 (£4/12/6% maturing Ist October,
1962) and No. 79 (£5/5/0% maturing Ist November, 1962) can
now CONVERT TO HIGHER INTEREST.
000
Applications may be lodged at any office of the Commonwealth Trading Bank;
Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited; Bank of New South Wales; The
Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited; The Rural Bank of New South
Wales; or through a Stockbroker; or at the Council's Head Office, Queen
Victoria Building, George Street, Sydney ('phone: 2-0259).
Underwritten by Ralph W. King & Yuill and Ernest L. Davis & Co., Members of the
Sydney Stock Exchange.
economic breeze; steel ingots, for ex-
ample, totalled 324,000 tons in August,
1962, 304,000 tons in August, 1961, and
332,000 tons in August, 1960.
OSTI MOVES
JUSTIFIED
A good deal of ink seems to have been
spilt unnecessarily bemoaning Osti
Holdings’ takeover of a company for
the benefit of its tax losses. Moves like
this are naturally justified by results.
Osti, of all companies, looks lively
enough to take temporary textile dif-
ficulties in its stride and freedom from
taxation liabilities for a period can
merely confer other benefits.
The device is well recognised as an
efficient and legal method of lowering
the incidence of company tax. Com-
panies are normally permitted to offset
losses against future earnings. A profit-
able company may by takeover put itself
in the position of reducing its tax as
against the acquisition of a “tax-loss”
partner. The partner has to have
income-producing assets placed into it,
thus allowing the offsetting process to
take place
Shares in a tax-loss company are
marketable, their price being determined
by the size of the loss and its duration.
Average prices run between 2/6 and
3/6 for each £1 of loss. Osti appears
to have paid about 3/-, the size of the
premium on the shares it issued to the
august MLC.
What has clearly attracted additional
attention to Osti seems to be the num-
ber of moves that appear to be occurring
together. Premium issues, profit dec-
laration, a bonus to shareholders all
this is disclosed during a time when
1961-62 gross trading profits have not
been lifted unduly ahead of the
previous year.
In extenuation, directors can easily
point out that the loss takeover, of
Jones Bros Pty Ltd, was foreshadowed
in their last annual report. The bonus,
from share premium reserve, follows the
earlier Emstra takeover and the
premium issue. It seems comfortably to
mirror Osti’s “inherent value.”
Indeed the tax saving also permits
directors to pour more funds into the
business and they are buying more
machinery to increase output. The end
result of premium issue and takeover
conveys the equivalent of almost
£300,000 of capital issue, but with
dividend commitment only on £lOO,OOO
of this.
Osti has in no way watered its capital
by these several moves. Better still, at
this present moment, it is more than
holding its profit rate.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
FOCUS ON THE FOOD INDUSTRY
A ustralians last year spent £3O mil-
lion (£3 a head) more on food
than they did in 1960-61. And they spent
more on it than on anything else in the
spending vocabLilary: in fact, £1175
million compared with the next highest
item on their budget, which was £547
million on clothes and footwear, and
£471 million for drink and tobacco.
(See table 1.)
TABLE I
PERSONAL CONSUMPTION EXPENDITURE
1960-61 1961-62
£m. £m.
Food 1145 1175
Tobacco, cigarettes, beer, &c 464 471
Clothing, footwear, drapery, &c 545 547
Gross rent of dwellings—-
Owner-occupied (imputed rental
value) 302 327
Other (estimated actual rent paid) 118 124
Durable goods 392 387
Gas and electricity 106 113
Fares 105 105
All other 1329 (1,337)
Total 4506 (4586)
Of course, not all this huge amount of
money was spent on food from factories.
Quite a lot of it was for such things as
meat, fish and potatoes. Nobody has esti-
mated exactly how the total was expend-
ed, but it is a fair guess that processed
food got a big share of it.
Figures apart, the by-play of the large
food processors like Peters, Heinz, Uni-
lever, Kraft, Campbell’s, Australian
Bacon and many more to get bigger
shares of the market witnesses that food
processing in Australia is very big and
profitable business, attracting local and
overseas firms alike. It also comes within
the purview of the multiple stores as
they reach out to tie up supplies.
The day has long since dawned when
the small or even the medium size firm
has found it hard to bNd a place in the
industry. Many of them as well as some
quite large ones have welcomed court-
ship and made marriages. The integration
process is by no means finished yet.
There may be bigger mergers and closer
tie-ups still to come, thus intensifying
the already striking social, economic and
investment consequences.
To speak of the food industry is, of
course, really to embrace in a convenient
term a varied set of industries which
physically have very little to do with one
another, like biscuits and bacon-curing,
for example. But the big firms in the food
business don’t worry much about that.
They can throw financial nets over every-
thing in the food line, not stopping at
natural boundaries like the world of fats,
though that is one which can give them
a logical interest in butter, margarine,
confectionery, milk products, ice cream,
cheese, not to speak of soap, which
naturally nobody eats.
The point is that their bi_ selling
organisations are geared to sell anything,
especially if it smacks of food; their
operations throw up by-products which
they know how to exploit, and in some
cases international sources of supply give
the incentive to look far and wide for
new demand outlets.
Taking the industry as a whole, prob-
ably its most striking feature over the
last ten or more years is that though
output has increased substantially, even
if patchily, in some sections (as Table
2 shows) its work force has remained
almost stationary. At 126,500 in 1961,
it was only 2100 bigger than then years
earlier. In 1956-57 it was actually smaller
than in 1950-51. On all counts the food
industry can be reckoned as a poor labor
absorber.
TABLE 2
FOOD FACTORY OUTPUT QUANTITIES
Selected Products .... 1938-39 1951-52 1960-61
Biscuits mil. lb 73.7 149.9 180.7
Flour 'OOO short tons .... 1373 1721 1571
Refined Sugar 'OOO tons .... 339 493 526
Jams mil. lb. 84 108 81
Preserved fruit mil. lb 151 256 310
Preserved vegs. mil. lb. 10 100 121(a)
Bacon and Ham 'OOO tons 32.4 36.6 36.9
Butter tons 194 131 179
Cheese tons .... 29 41 47
Processed Milk 'OOO tons 21.4 69.2 98.3
(a) Including frozen vegetables.
The main reason for this is the high
degree of mechanisation in the industry.
As will be seen from Table 3, fixed
capital equipment per worker employed
in most sectors of the food industry was
higher (and in some cases substantially
higher) than for the average of all manu-
facturing industry, though the latter
average, it is worth noting, is itself in-
flated by very high figures fo such
industries as electricity, iron and steel,
petroleum, munitions and some others in
which only a i nail work force is required
to serve exceptionally highly capitalised
industries.
TABLE 3
FOOD INDUSTRY'S FIXED CAPITAL 1961
Total
Land and Plant and per
Buildings Machinery employed
worker®
£ mil. £ mil. £
Bacon 4.0 2.2 1500
Bakeries 26.3 17.6 1020
Biscuits 5.0 4.0 1460
Butter 8.1 10.8 2910
Cereals 4.0 4.7 2420
Cheese 3.2 3.1 3500
Confectionery 5.6 5.4 1600
Condiments, etc 6.8 2.8 2130
Flour Milling 7.3 5.7 2890
Jam, fruit, veg. can-
ning 11.0 10.2 2440
Ice Cream .... .... .... 3.5 3.3 3250
Margarine 1.4 2.0 2600
Meat and fish preser-
ing 9.3 6.8 1780
Milk Dried and Con-
densed 3.5 3.1 2040
All Manufacturing In-
dustry 1193 1391 2260
* To nearest £lO.
This relatively high level of fixed
capital equipment in most food industries
has its attractions for entrepreneurs in
a country with high wages and labor
ascendancy. On the other hand, wages
in the industry, except (mainly) in the
sections employing a substantial propor-
tion of women, are well up to the average
for all manufacturing industry, and in
some where fixed capital investment per
worker is well above average, wages
exceed the all manufacturing average.
Whether wages have benefited from
mechanisation is problematical. They ap-
pear to have done so, at least in the case
of flour milling, butter, cheese and mar-
garine, but certainly not in ice cream
making where the average wage is de-
flated by the large proportion of women
employed. (See T: ’ le 4.)
TABLE 4
FOOD MANUFACTURING 1960 61
Average
Total Earnings
Wages per
Employment and employed
Factories % Salaries person®
000's Women £ mil. £
Bacon 4.2 18 4 1 980
Bakeries 21.7 26 16.4 760
Biscuits 6.2 60 5.1 839
Butter 6.5 13 6.7 1040
Cereals 3.6 6 3.5 980
Cheese 1.8 15 1.9 1030
Confectionery .... 6.9 55 5.6 820
Condiments, spices 4.5. 52 3.8 840
Flour Milling .... 4.5 9 4.9 1090
Jam, fruit end
vegetable canrvng 9.1 42 8.4 920
Ice Cream 2.1 44 1.9 890
Margarine 1.3 19 1.4 1080
Meat and Fish
preserving . . 9.0 13 9.3 1030
Milk, dried and
condensed ... 2.8 16 2.9 1020
All Manufacturing
Industry 1144.7 24 1143 1000
* To nearest £lO.
As the process of mechanisation is a
continuing one in most branches of the
food ind stry, one would expect a
greater contribution from it towards
labor absorption from its increasing ex-
penditure on capital equipment than from
direct employment in the industry itself.
In 1959-60, the latest year for which
comparative figures are available, the
food industry’s identified capital expendi-
ture on plant, machinery, land and build-
ings was £13.7 million, an annual rate
representative of the industry’s coitribu-
tion to income generation from fixed
capital expenditure in recent years. It is
not an inclusive figure, however, as it
excludes capital expenditure in the sugar
refining and some smaller sectors of the
industry.
Dairy products made the biggest con-
tribution te the £13.7 million total with
£3.4 million, then jam and other can-
ning and fruit and vegetable conserving
with £3.2 million, meat preserving £2.1
million, flour mills £1.9 million, confec-
tionery £1.2 million and biscuits £l.l
million. In other sectors of the industry
capital expenditure was below £ 1 mil-
lion.
True enough, the industry’s capital ex-
penditure in 1959-60 shades into com-
parative insignificance compared with
the year’s capital outlay of some of the
bigger industries such as metal fabricat-
ing (£54.9 million), base metals (£44.8


Company
TABLE 6
INVESTMENT EXPERIENCE
(VARYING PERIODS
Yrs.
IN FOOD STOCKS
TO 1961)
Annual Present
Rate Income
of Cap. % of
Change Orig.
Dividend Yield
End-Dec Sept.
1961 1962
Morket
Standing
1961
Allied Mills Ltd.
Flour
10
% p.a.
-4-13.4
Invest.
13.1
3.3
4.0
141
Big Sister Foods
Gen. Foods
10
-
-13.1
11.1
2.9
2.8
218
Colonial Sugar Refining
Sugar
10
_
- 3.5
4.1
3.0
4.0
248
Cons. Milk Industries
Dairy
Cordials, foodstuffs
10
- 2.3
5.3
4.4
4.3
118
Cottee's ltd.
8
-23.0
15.8
2.7
3.2
185
Fairymead Sugar Co
Sugar
10
h 4.2
7.2
1.0
5.0
138
Gillespie Bros. Hlds.
Flour
2
r
h > 5
3.6
3.0
3 4
147
Hocksho M's
Bakers, etc.
10
f- 5.3
9.1
5.4
4.8
IC9
Henry Jones Co-op.
Janri, canners
10
h 3.6
3.6
2.5
2.9
228
Huttons
Homs, etc.
10
- 9.2
14.2
5.4
4.3
101
James Sfedman Ltd.
Confectionery
10
-
f-14 2
11.7
27
3 1
187
Life Savers (A/sia.)
Confectionery
10
F30.0
25.4
2.0
2.1
193
MocRobertson (Aust.J
Confectionery, etc.
10
- 5.6
8.1
4.5
5.1
129
Marrickville Hlds.
Margarine
10
h M2
14.6
3.0
3.0
199
Mayfair Homs
Hams, etc
4
h34.7
7.9
2.4
2.4
228
Millaquin Sugar Co.
Sugar
10
-
-
- 6.9
11.0
5.0
5.0
125
Peters Ice Creom (Vic.)
Ice cream, etc.
10
-11.3
8.9
3.5
3.8
177
Pioneer Sugar Mills
Sugar
1
— 6.2
3.8
5.0
4.9
155
Provincial Traders
Margarine, etc.
10
4- 9.7
9.5
3.5
3.5
144
Queensland United Foods.
Dairy, etc.
1
- 1.8
3.6
3.6
3.4
161
Tom Piper
Canned Foods
10
— 0.6
4.2
4.1
4.2
125
million), and motors (£26.4 million).
But it compares favorably with, say,
chemicals (£11.9 million), paper and
pulp making (£9.2 million), plastics
(£3.9 million) and footwear (£1 mil-
lion). Moreover, as befitting an industry
enjoying a steadily rising demand, food
also needs steady replacements and
annual supplements to its capital equip-
ment.
For all the mechanisation, food in-
dustry companies have not succeeded in
approaching the average growth rate of
earnings for all companies listed on the
Australian Stock Exchanges over recent
years. This is illustrated by Table 5, con-
structed from lan Potter and Company’s
Selected Australian Ordinary Shares
1962. This shows that, taking 1954 as
100, the average earnings of all com-
panies listed on stock exchanges rose to
175 in 1961, whereas (also taking 1954
as 100) food companies increased their
earnings only to about 150 by 1961.
Earnings of food companies slipped back
when the average for all groups leaped
from 135.5 to 159.5 in 1959, but rose a
shade in 1961 when the earnings index
for all companies lost a largish slice of
its further jump to 193.1 in 1960.
TABLE 5
EARNINGS GROWTH INDEX
Food All Industry
Shares Groups
954 ,00 ,00
955 98.7 107.4
956 ,09.7 113.3
957 ,20.5 123.3
958 ,43.4 1355
959 ,41.9 ,59.5
950 ,47.8 ,93.1
1961 ,49.7 ,75 0
In this context cne must not be
blinded by the record profit results of
Peters Ice Cream (Vic.) for 1961-62, be-
cause, taking the con., iny’s sharp in-
crease in capital during the year into ac-
count, its earnings rate rose only frac-
tionally from 19 to 21.4 p.c. Doubtless,
P -rs capital increase from £1,494,101
to £4,375,380 arising from its numerous
acquisitions last year has added substan-
tially to its future earnings power, for
that was the object of its takeover exer-
cises. These could hardly have been ex-
pected to bear miraculous fruit in
1961-62.
Again, in looking at the food industry’s
earnings picture it must be remembered
that some of the biggest companies in
it are proprietary companies like Heinz,
Unilever and Kraft. r hese are not taken
into account in lan Potter and Co’s cal-
culations. Nor can any idea be given of
the real profit performances of such
companies. They could well have been
doing much better than the listed com-
panies. One simply doesn’t know about
this.
On the same point of earnings, it could
be that the food industry’s exports hold
promise of improving on their record
over the 19505. As Mr E. Christensen
said at the Peters meeting, “Export op-
portunities at the r. ment for companies
such as ours are most encouraging.” On
the other hand, an obvious threat to
food exports of companies like Tom
Piper and Henry Jones is implicit in
Britain’s joining the Common Market.
Although prices of some food shares
have suffered along with the rest of the
market this year and their yields have
risen perceptibly, the good ones have
proved very resilient and quite a number
have improved their position. Current and
end-1961 yields on a representative selec-
tion of food shares are given in Table 6.
Index figures far the approximate rela-
tive market standing of the various shares
are also included in Table 6. These index
figures have been computed by dividing
the average dividend yield on the indi-
vidual stocks into the average yield for
all stocks listed on the Sydney Stock Ex-
change. (The yields averaged were those
for the end-month figures for January,
April, July and October 1961).
As might be expected with any in-
dustrial group of shares, the market
standing of food stocks covers a very
wide range. There are some such as CSR,
Big Sister Foods, Henry Jones and May-
fair Hams which, with indices over 200,
rank highly even if not as high as the
best in some other industries such as
BHP (345), Commercial Union Assur-
ance (322), G. E. Crane (286) and
Rocla Industries (282).
COMPETITION FOR
THE BANKS?
By “CROESUS”
TAoes the August fall of £8.7 m.
to £1052.1 m. in trading advances
against the usual seasonal upward trend
—which incidentally wasn’t followed in
August a year ago, either —mean that
the momentum of economic recovery
slowed down last month?
Not necessarily so. But it seems prob-
able that bank advances would have
dipped by more than £.8.7 m. in August
were it not for the steep rise in imports
in that month. Finance for importers
must have been a very helpful outlet for
bank advances in face of a fairly static
demand for industrial customers and
poor custom from the share market in
the prevailing doldrums there.
On the other hand, the fall in advances
was more than accounted for by a drop
of £9.3 m. in bank accommodation for
wool buyers. This has little relevance to
the tempo of economic activity, nor
seemingly to the level of wool prices as
these have been notably firm since the
new season’s auctions started.
Then there is the continuing rise in
the trading banks' new r.nd increased
lending commitments and, more import-
antly, overdraft limits which moved
£11.4 m. higher to £1752.9 m. in
August. This is the highest total since
figures were first supplied in 1960.
The further increase in limits indicates
that while borrowers from the banks are
coasting along on roughly their present
overdrafts, they are taking the view that
they will need substantially : lore bank
money to finance their activities in the
more vigorous business climate they ex-
pect to be around the corner.
Business expectations are not neces-
sarily a close reflection of the current
state of activity, but, if this was faltering,
companies would be unlikely to apply for
higher overdraft limits. Their failure to
exercise more of their overdraft limits,
which in August were 66 p.c. higher than
outstanding advances, has to be other-
wise explained.
One explanation is the fairly obvious
one that in August companies were well
able to finance their additional working
capital requirements from their own
funds.
Competition from factoring and
other finance companies ready to
supply working capital may well be a
potent reason why bank adva ;es have
failed to make a bigger response to the
improvement in business activity in
recent months.
Such competition is apparently here
to stay, as witness the increasing number
of factoring companies and discount
services available.


IMPORTS (f.o.b.) MONTHLY AVERAGES AND
TOTALS
£000’s
Year
Year
July
July
1960-61
1961-62
Monthly Average
Monthly Average
1961
1962
Foodstuffs
3,635
3,299
2,299
3,166
Alcoholic drinks
323
377
188
277
Tobacco
1,113
S12
717
1.817
Animal substances
620
411
264
696
Vegetable substances
1,702
1,642
1,073
1,984
Yarns, fibres, apparel
11,040
8,684
8,916
11,103
Oils, fats, wages
9,303
9.158
9,157
9,541
Paints varnishes
507
455
314
590
Rocks, minerals
722
628
630
809
Metals and machinery
36,270
26,260
25,190
33,648
Rubber and leather
2,128
1,621
1,181
1,867
Wood and wicker
1,906
1,266
680
1,555
Cement and ceramics
1,733
1,496
1,399
1,866
Paper and stationery
5,850
4,806
4.598
5,989
Jewellery, toys, etc.
1,085
1,043
1,095
1.406
Scientific and other instruments
1,458
1,406
1,173
1,435
Chemicals
4,735
4,931
4,382
5,130
Miscellaneous
6,425
5,497
5,676
6,381
Total
90,632
73,734
69,840
89,260
MOTOR FIRMS SHOULD FEEL FOR THE BRAKES
HFhe detailed July trade figures issued
A recently make it clear that the in-
crease of £19.4 million in imports com-
pared with July, 1961, was a reflection
both of the increasing activity in indus-
try and of the wave of spending over the
last few months on consumer goods and
cars. These two influences on imports
worked more in unison and more
speedily than was generally expected.
The sudden spurt in imports to £9om.
in May and their elevated plane sustained
since then are in part a direct conse-
quence of the announcement of the Gov-
ernment’s spending stimulants in Febru-
ary. The time lag between ordering and
delivery here was much longer in the old
days. The quicker response of imports
to internal stimulants today reflects
among other things the speeding up of
transport over recent years and is some-
thing to take note of in balance-of-pay-
ments circles.
The main culprit in the July rise in
imports was motor vehicle components
and replacement parts which were double
the July, 1961, figure, rising from £3.4m.
to £6.Bm. This is the highest monthly
figure so far this year, but imports of
this item have been increasing rapidly
since January when they were £3.5m.
Imports of complete vehicles have also
been mounting though the total was still
comparatively small at £.7m. in July (the
peak for the year.)
In case the authorities see this as run-
ning away with overseas reserves for
the benefit of the Australian motoring
public, which has lately been posting
near monthly records for new motor
registrations, a word in the ears of the
big overseas firms making motor vehicles
here might be timely at this stage, when
overseas reserves are still at a pleasing
height but are beginning to shrink a little
nonetheless.
The point might be made that in July
imports of motor components were just
about up to their 1960-61 monthly
average of £7,017,000 and not so far
below the £7.3 million in October, 1960,
which the firms sorely remember was one
of the clues for the Government to single
out the motor industry for especially
severe treatment in the measures intro-
duced the following month to galvanise
the overseas payments position.
It would be far better for them to put
the brakes on their importing at this
stage than to be told a little later on
that they have to —or else! Obviously,
if they are ordering components on the
scale of late 1960 the authorities might
have to act, remembering perhaps that
though they took action in November,
1960, imports of components still came
in increasing quantities for some time,
reading £B.4m. in January, 1961.
This is not to say it is time the motor
industry’s run of rising outputs was stop-
ped in its tracks. A big pent up demand
for motor vehicles following last year’s
slump still remains to be satisfied.
Although August’s 30,496 new registra-
tions were the highest since November,
1960 (31,891), for 15 months prior to
March this year (sales tax was cut in Feb-
ruary) new registrations averaged fewer
than 20,000 a month, the highest over
this period being 23,670 in March, 1961,
(after the first stage of the cut since sales
tax was increased in November, 1960),
and the lowest, 16,260, in January, 1961.
Moreover, the general economic posi-
tion is very different now from Novem-
ber, 1960, when sustained and rising
activity in the motor industry was a
dominant factor in the excessive demands
being made on the economy’s resources.
Now we need to keep the motor industry
buoyant until it brings the motor acces-
sories and ancillary industries and trades
back towards full production, because this
offers one of the best prospects for getting
overall unemployment down to a more
reasonable level.
It must be remembered also that it
was the insatiable demand for imported
steel (the motor industry was the chief
offender) which was probably a more
potent seed than imports of motors and
components in the balance-of-payments
threat in November, 1960.
Thanks in large part to BHPs expanded
capacity for supplying sheet steel (which
accounted for nearly half of steel imports
in the latter part of 1960) steel imports
in recent months have been only a frac-
tion of their 1960 levels.
Steel imports in July were at the
modest total of £1,488,000, well below
even July 1961’s £1,844,000 and only
22 p.c. of the high figure reached in
October, 1960. Moreover, though, as Mr
Syme said at the BHP meeting, exports of
steel are rather sticky, in fact in July we
were exporting much more steel than we
were importing and this has been the
position since 1960.
Against this, the detailed July imports
figures rub in the point evident from the
trade figures for the last three available
months that we are importing a great
deal more of practically all items on the
list, both producer goods and materials
and consumption goods.
The accompanying table shows that for
all groups except metals and machinery,
foodstuffs, alcoholic drinks, rubber, wood
and some miscellaneous items, July im-
ports exceeded the monthly averages for
the peak importing year 1960-61.
This demonstrates that most industries
have been restocking for higher levels
of output. It also shows that when the
brakes are off, consumer goods vie for
import honors as readily as anything else.
The sharp increases in tobacco, textiles,
jewellery, toys, are cases in point. As
The Bulletin suggested recently, this
is a trend the authorities should keep
their eye on.


COMMONWEALTH BANKING CORPORATION
Combined Assets and Liabilities of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation and its three member Banks
Commonwealth Trading Bank, Commonwealth Savings Bank and Commonwealth Development Bank as at
30th June, 1962, were:—
Highlights for 1961/62 were:—
COMMONWEALTH TRADING HANK OF AUSTRALIA
Deposits
30th June, 1961 £282 million
30th June, 1962 £303 million
Advances
£l4B million
£162 million
No. of A/cs.
719,000
760,000
Branches and
Agencies
788
856
1961/62 Profit after tax £857,808.
COMMONWEALTH SAYINGS HANK OF AUSTRALIA
Depositors’ balances increased by £5O million to £873 million at 30th June, 1962, and active accounts
increased by 110,000 to 5,560,000.
Loans for housing and to local and semi-governmental authorities, etc., totalled £35.9 million during
the year. Since 1946, the Savings Bank has lent over £240 million for housing alone.
Commonwealth Savings Bank services are now available at over 8,000 branches and agencies.
1961/62 Profit £1,435,966.
COMMONWEALTH DEVELOPMENT BANK OF AUSTRALIA
The Commonwealth Development Bank approved finance totalling £29.2 million during the year to
primary and secondary industry for developmental purposes. Outstanding advance balances at 30th June, 1962,
totalled £48.1 million.
1961/62 Profit £683,707.
J Nq CO*-'
The Annual Report and Balance Sheets are available at any branch
COMMONWEALTH
TRADING • SAYINGS • DEVELOPMENT
BANKS


HOOKER INVESTMENT FACES THE MUSIC
the wilder and more wanton
excesses of inflated development has
healthily cut some sections of our econ-
omy down to a proper size. Far more
than some of the monstrous shocks we
have had to bear, such a process pos-
sesses a lasting significance. It sounds,
perhaps, too optimistic to suggest that we
shall never travel some of the old boom
paths again, but the example is estab-
lished for the wise.
It now seems largely accepted that the
L. J. Hooker Investment Corporation
intends drastically to heed this new, or
old, wisdom. Comment has mostly stood
fairly muted before last week’s dis-
closures of loss, believing, and appar-
ently quite justly, that a new sense of
responsibility and moderation may now
filter through the entire Hooker struc-
ture.
Not before its due time, many vic-
tims of past ebullience rush to pro-
claim—licking the wounds of sadly de-
pressed share prices and recalling ex-
alted land valuations and hasty take-
overs. One must reluctantly remember
also the 1960-61 whistling in the dark
and the scarcely concealed window-
dressing observable in that year’s balance
sheet.
With the corporation at last willing
to correct its own past so ruthlessly, re-
criminations may be put aside; for the
write-downs now taking place look to
be absolutely thorough and without any
glrssing-over of past misdemeanours.
This, of course, must be made patently
and unambiguously obvious when the
final pruning is revealed in November.
Directors still leave themselves open
to considerable remonstrance for de-
laying a figure assessment of the whole
situation. All we have now available is
the loss on trading operations, £639,249.
The so-called abnormal devaluations and
provisions are stated to be entirely “in
respect of revenue and capital transac-
tions entered into prior to June 30,
1961.” They await, such is their magni-
tude, a “re-check, together with test-
checks by independent valuers outside
the corporation.”
This shows a high sense of responsi-
bility, no doubt, but is eating humble
pie with a vengeance for an accredited
valuer in its own right! Still, as direc-
tors say, this is the kind of revaluation
which must be done only once.
Meanwhile, allowing full credence to
a statement that the “net tangible assets
backing for each ss. fully paid stock unit
will be considerably in excess of 55.” and
taking the excess at an arbitrary 2s. 6d.,
a total less of around £3 million may be
deduced. Many of the corporation’s in-
cidental and glamor acti ties are to
suffer in the lopping process. There is
too little ground here to deal with such
things as the CGA Fire and Accident
Insurance contingencies and the Main-
guard hangovers.
So this principally locuses a full light
upon the heavy losses proceeding from
"Of course you know what you should have done—converted your
first mortgage debentures to ordinary stock and liquidated the
obligations to your unsecured creditors with preference shares in a
holding company, then..."
the corporation’s vaunted speciality and
expertise—land. Here booming over-con-
fidence and misjudgment are to become
visible at their starkest and bidding-up
by developers to reach its sad conclusion.
Under the hectic circumstances of a
runaway economy, it may perhaps sound
too harsh to harry the developers for
their mistakes. Here, though, is a con-
clusion where, for one company, 90 p.c.
of all its specific-purpose land, as dis-
tinct from home sites, has lost about
two-thirds of its initial valuation. That
percentage makes its own commentary.
A vigorous general manager is now
being allowed to flourish his disciplin-
ary axe wherever it seems necessary—
salaries, staff, rationalisation of borrow-
ings, and so on. It cannot be too
frequently reiterated that Hookers is no
Latec—so much has been preserved and
is worth preserving.
The market, and many outsiders, have
seen events casting their shadows for a
long time. Patience will still be needed
for quite a while still. But customers’
confidence has not been withdrawn and
the group announces July and August
trading at small profits.
simpl. layout of Ready Mixed
Concrete Ltd.’s 1960-61 balance
sheet, and the statement by the chairman
at the annual meeting for that year that
assets would be revalued with a view to
reconstruction of capital, did not prepare
shareholders for the deterioration of
their reserves by over £4 million.
In that year reserves were simply des-
cribed in the balance sheet as share
premiums (on cash issues and issues to
purchase assets) £10,864,289, plus gen-
era! reserve £950,000. Fixed assets were
one conglomerate item valued “at cost,
less amounts written off, including for
consolidation purposes the difference be-
tween cost of acquisition of fixed assets
and book values thereof in individual
companies acquired”, <£19,797,712.
There were no intangible assets described
as such, in a separate category.
The 1962 accounts divulge that fixed
assets are £15,623,356, and reserves
£7,813,938. It takes the best part of two
pages of fine print to explain this
remarkable retreat.
Shareholders are now informed by the
Board that reserves shown in the current
balance sheet are “represented entirely
by tangible assets of the group valued on
a consistent and conservative basis.”
One of the basic doctrines of account-
ing is that of consistency, which implies
consistency from year to year, as well as
from asset to asset.
Directors may find that shareholders
show little goodwill to them until the
memory of this incident is erased.


Qydney heavy engineer Tulloch Ltd. is
to banish its receivership with quite
a distinguished bang. The old and heav-
ily battered warhorse, tracing its history
as far back as 1885, comes into genuine
running again with an NSW Government
Railways contract totalling some £3 mil-
lion the largest single order the group
has ever gained.
Refinancing is apparently to proceed
apace, in accord with details given be-
low. The receivers are first able to re-
port (all since appointment in April,
1961) contracts of sale or realisation of
assets reaching more than £1 million
and surplus assets yet to be realised of
about £200,000.
Main heavy engineering capacities re-
main unimpaired and the Econo pre-
fabrication division has been held in-
tact. Sale of the Trojan tool subsidiary
to Pioneer Spring had been reported in
June.
The market has been alive with
rumors of successful reorganisation re-
cently. From a low of 4/3 this year, the
shares had lately moved to around 7/-.
Shareholders may take some further
time to evaluate the new conditions.
Mr. Humphreys could hardly be ex-
pected to hazard exact forecasts of
future profitability. Annual turnover,
apart from the suburban trail car order
announced, is moving around £H mil-
lion. Other railway tenders are afoot,
but it will certainly take until the 1963-
64 year to derive benefits from the con-
tract now awarded.
Principal instrument for the refin-
ancing is £750,000 of 10 p.c. debentures,
conditionally underwritten by the enter-
prising Finance Corporation of Austra-
lia and Sydney broker Bernard Curran
and Co. Some eyebrows may be lifted
at the rather high interest rate, but, given
the progress indicated, :he method
should not prove too expensive at
£75,000 a year.
The issue is split into two series—“A”
to mature on October 31, 1966, and
“B” on October 31, 1967. Original
holders of the “B” series may take up
separate options, exercisable during the
month ending September 30, 1967, to
convert to four 5/ shares for each £1
of debentures. Sydney listing will be
sought for the options.
Date of the issue has still to be re-
vealed, but FCA, a shareholder, is to
get £125,000 of each debenture class.
Other shareholders do not obt .in specific
rights.
Shareholders’ funds should total
around £950,000 as at June 30 last; paid
capital is £547,932. The 1961-62 year
is expected to show a £25,000 loss, and
a similar figure is foreshadowed for
1962-63. Thence benefits begin to ar-
rive. Not least will be the addition of
200 employees to the present 400. Re-
ceivers and a reconstituted board sound
thoroughly confident of complete re-
habilitation.
tThiE tale of two Sydney retailers, Grace
Bros. Holdings Ltd and Bebar-
falds Ltd, was contradictory, although
they both operate in roughly the same
trade.
Bebarfaids’ profit dropped 15 p.c.,
and dividend was cut from 9 to 6 p.c.
Grace Bros increased profit by 8.6 p.c.,
improved earning rate to 15.9 p.c., and
reported a new record for sales.
Bebarfalds, the furniture specialist,
has branch stores in ten suburbs and pro-
vincial cities.
Grace Bros., besides being renowned
for furniture and furnishings, has a valu-
able removal business —strengthened this
last year by the takeover of Monaghan’s
of Lismore and Sydney—and also
handles food and apparel. It has four
large stores at Broadway, Parramatta,
Bondi and Chatswood.
Tts one hundredth birthday was the
occasion for the bonus by Victorian
rope and cordage maker, James Miller
Holdings Ltd. Directors made the ges-
ture —it was in the ratio of one-for-ten
shares held—although profit fell 20 p.c.
in the year to June.
It appears from the preliminary state-
ment also that no allocation was made
this year for the increased cost of plant
replacement, although £20,000 had been
set aside in the three preceding years.
Finance and Guarantee Co. Ltd, Syd-
ney, has had rather a sticky time
since its three-for-ten 100 p.c. premium
issue and three-for-ten convertible note
issue in 1960.
Latest report is that the 17i p.c. divi-
dend of five years’ standing is being
chopped to 10 p.c. for the year to June
30 last. In 1960-61 that rate was held
although earnings on capital were only
16.4 p.c. The current earning rate is
10.2 p.c.
Group outstandings were slightly
lower. The proportion of unearned in-
terest was also materially lower because
a greater proportion of outstandings was
short-term.
Formerly Motor Finance and Guaran-
tee Co. Ltd, the company’s interests now
range from building and investment (in-
cluding erection of shops in Canberra,
and home unit projects in Sydney) to
hotels and, rather incongruously, valves
and conveyors.
HThe significantly lower provision for
A taxation made by Wormald Brothers
Industries Ltd, which allowed the com-
pany to show a steady profit result, drew
no comment from directors in their report
accompaning the 1961-62 accounts.
The allowance of £223,087, leaving net
profit of <£371,985, is in fact approxi-
mately the ruling rate of Bs. in the £.
Wormalds has in the past been in the
habit of disclosing profits which were low
in relation to the tax provided.
As its young competitor Fire Fighting
Equipment Ltd. had reported a week
earlier with a profit decrease of 68 p.c.,
it does not surprise to learn that Worm-
aid’s net profit fell short of budget.
Directors said margins in certain lines
suffered through intensified competition.
T>ayout by Australian Chemical Hold-
ing Ltd. (the onetime Reichhold) for
the year to June 30, 1962 was the lowest
in its eight year public history.
Directors chopped the divided from
12i to 8f p.c., in line with the halving
of profit. Earning rate slumped from
21.5 to 8.4 p.c. on higher average capital.
The net trading result of £211,388
after lower tax but higher depreciation
was affected by, amongst other problems,
a write-down in stocks of £62,500.
The interim statement in March of a
tightening in profit margins for the Aus-
tralian manufacturing subsidiaries had
not prepared the market for such a
trading reversal, and the shares dropped
from 225. 3d. to 18s in the space of
two days. They had brought 345. 9d.
earlier this year.
MARKETS ON THE WAY "UP”?
Subtle and refined analysis was directed last week towards the concept
“bottom of a market” and the degree of bounce therefrom. There were
certainly enough clear signs locally as investors allowed BHP to do its darndest.
The consequent bump upwards from 51s. 3d. to around 545. was given full
significance and other leaders also made some dashes for dominance.
The most important indicators have been ripening the atmosphere these
many weeks past, almost unheeded. Now it looks as if the markets are ready
to launch a burst of vigor. Overseas influences have been absorbed, while,
especially in Melbourne, genuine public demand seems to have replaced the
chilling of the institutions.
Germs of an advance look evident over a much wider front. Oversub-
scription of the £5O million Commonwealth Loan suggests even healthy and
active money markets. It’s been a long time coming, but the base is well
prepared.


Tts best return on capital for many a
A long day was registered by Con-
solidated Milk Industries with its 1961-
62 profit of £362,992. The earning rate
w'as 16.2 p.c., compared with 12.5 and
11.2 p.c. in earlier years.
Takeover of Hawkesbury Dairy and
Ice Society Ltd by a share exchange
with a cash alternative, and a deal with
Foremost Dairies Inc. of USA for manu-
facturing and distribution rights of Fore-
most dairy products, were two notable
events in Consolidated Milk’s calendar.
The Foremost deal involves the issue
of £ 1 10,000 in capital at par in each of
the next five years. This should be no
strain on capital, which before the take-
over of the Hawkesbury company was
approximately £2.2 million.
Shares advanced abort Is. on quote,
with release of preliminary results.
Consolidated Milk’s pleasing result
followed similar news from Peters (Vic.)
the week before, and could herald glad
tidings from the much smaller Victorian
company, Toppa Holdings Ltd.
VI/hen some people treat the Govern-
ment as a power from which to
extract as much money and assistance
as possible, for the minimum of effort,
it is refreshing to listen to Peters’ chair-
man Mr E. Christensen.
He said recently: “In a democracy such
as our own, we do not expect, or anti-
cipate, Government assistance. We look
upon the Government as a policy-making
national board of directors, and we ex-
pect and are prepared to work solidly
ourselves to achieve our own success.”
The immediate opportunities for his
own company were most interesting and
encouraging, he continued, and “should
we fail to take advantage of them we
shall have none but ourselves to blame.”
A nine p.c. profit improvement by
Commercial Union Assurance Co.
of Aust. Ltd, and a gentle nudge from 63
to 7 p.c. in the dividend rate was not
enough to please the market.
After the one-for-two issue at 7s. 6d.
premium last July, the ss. shares were
about 225. Since then they have slipped
to 18s. 9d., which still gives them one
of the lowest yields in the insurance
bracket. (Two-thirds of the issued capital
of £4.5 million is owned by the Com-
mercial Union Assurance Co. Ltd of
London).
The purchase of the Australian
business of North British and Mercantile
Insurance Co. Ltd was effective from
January 1, 1962. Consideration was
cash, and in the interim of seven months
before the share issue was made, the
company had to pay interest on borrowed
funds. This expense largely cancelled the
benefits of the extra business secured by
the takeover.
market has been taking more in-
A terest in Oil Development’s shares
since the company spudded in its Mir-
anda No. 1 well in the Surat Basin in
Queensland a week ago, though cur-
iously enough the news brought in more
sellers than buyers and the price peeled
a fraction.
It is curious, because it was the com-
pany’s prospects of finding oil in its
Surat Basin leases (Miranda is only 150
miles from Moonie) that made the com-
pany’s new issue so popular only a few
months ago.
One of the company’s board told
The Bulletin last week that the pros-
pects at Miranda were rated highly, and
perhaps the market is also looking more
sourly than it should be at the opera-
tions dragging on to a conclusion at Mt
Salt in South Australia and Anglesea in
Victoria.
At Mt Salt drillers detected small
traces of hydrocarbon gas at 9833 ft
last week. This is the second scent
of oil in the well, which has now been
plugged at 10,044 ft repar..: .y to test-
ing the two porous zones higher in the
hole.
At Anglesea, wet hydrocarbons were
also located higher up than the well’s
present depth of about 9000 ft, at
which drilling is also proceeding. The
drilling equipment is now being modi-
fied to enable the drill to continue in
the present sediments to a depth of
’o,oooft.
dividend cut by Cyclone Co. of
Australia Ltd from 123 to 10 p.c.
has produced a curious situation in
regard to the convertible notes. The 10s.
shares were offered after the news at
20s. 6d. to yield 4.9 p.c., while the 20s.
notes (bearing 7 p.c. interest) were com-
manding about 9d. less to yield 7.1 p.c.
The notes are convertible one-for-one
on Jun 30, 1966, that is at a 10s.
premium. Noteholders receive 4.8 d. per
unit more than shareholders on the
present dividend basis—which certainly
is the lowest ever paid.
The company must increase dividend
payments to 14 p.c. by 1966 for note-
holders to receive the same amount of
income on conversion. It had paid 123
p.c. for four years until the 1961-62
reduction, and, before that, was able to
pay out 15 p.c. for five years in
succession.
Sales in 1961-62 dropped only 6.3 p.c.,
but profits fell 37 p.c., and the earning
rate shrivelled to 10.8 p.c. (last year 19.8
p.c.).
The key to the profit decline, and to
its possible recovery this year, was the
£ 1 million involved in the continuous
casting steel-making plant erected for
K-M Steel Products at Brooklyn (Vic.),
which produced no return. Production is
scheduled to begin in October.
Tn contrast to the poor showing by
Cyclone, H. Pettiford Holdings Ltd,
Sydney manufacturer of wire and steel
products, managed to improve earning
rate from 16.7 to 18.6 p.c. on greatly
increased capital.
Pettifords snapped W. H. Hole and Co.
Ltd from the jaws of Cyclone late last
year. Hole’s accumulated losses assisted
Pettiford’s profits in the year to June 30,
as the tax provision was only £9650 on a
pre-tax profit of £79,655. TThe previous
year’s pre-tax profit was £48,418.
At 31s. 9d. or thereabouts, Pettiford
shares return 6.3 p.c., a sweetener for any
portfolio.
TThe sudden rise in the gold output of
the Morning Star mine in Victoria
in the four weeks to September 11 ap-
pears to have been neglected by the
market. Ore treated went up from 824
to 1009 tons and gold recovered from
290.2 to 4020 z. compared with the
previous period.
Since their spurt to 2s. 7d. earlier
this year, the fully paid 6s. share., have
relapsed to about Is.
Maybe share! elders were expecting
rather too much to ensue too quickly
after Mr H. C. Stacpocle’s optimistic
remarks at the meeting in June when he
said the board felt more assured of suc-
cess than at any time during the mine’s
rehabilitation.
It is early yet to say whether his
forecast that driving at the tills floor
level will fully define a block contain-
ing a major ore occurrence, but with
this prospect in view and the obvious
impiuvements in tonnages milled and
the recovery rate, shareholders of this
resuscitated proposition in the remote
but picturesque valleys behind Wood’s
Point, which had their hours of galden
glory in the old days, have enough to
keep them happy in the meantime.
The Bulletin w~ around that way
late one recent Saturday afternoon to
feel the strongly revived pulse of ac-
tivity along the once famous creek.
Bros. (Aust.) Ltd, Melbourne
retailer, held pi.lt steady although
tax provision wi • heavily reduced in the
last year to July 31.
Carrying a load of interest (which in
1960-61 ran to over £l.l million), the
company did well to hold the fort under
difficult conditions.
The earning rate was shaved from 12.3
to 11.3 p.c. on capital, from which 10
p.c. was distributed for the third succes-
sive year, but the market held the
premium on the shares at 50 p.c.
For what it’s worth, the after tax profit
of the Cox group (including Cox
Finance Corporation) was 2.4 p.c. of the
£32 million sales, compared with G. J.
Coles’ profit margin of 3.4 p.c.


liwl
llliill
OMATOW*®* .
°VES .
tPIMZue -
fcRANP*
YOUR
AVOURITE
BRANDY
fine Australian
pot-still
THREE STAR
Distinctive in flavour and bouquet
OLD LIQUEUR
lb. A superb quality Liqueur Brandy.
gsd
T
DY
|"|ld shareholders of Leo Buring Hold-
ings Ltd who accepted shares in
Lindeman Holdings Ltd last December
have every reason to be pleased.
At the time, Lindeman shares were
traded around 18s. to 19s. Announcement
of a two-for-five bonus last week pro-
pelled Lindeman shares up to 275., though
they have retreated a little since. Ex-Leo
Buring shareholders qualify for the
bonus. Lindeman expects to maintain the
present 15 p.c. dividend on bonus-
enlarged capital.
As Lindeman made a one-for-one
bonus to shareholders by formation of
the holding company in October 1959,
this second gratis distribution elevates the
company to the front ranks of capital
growth stocks within that period.
As capital after the bonus will still be
only about £500,000, the stock should
continue to improve with age.
expense involved in processing
transfers of oil company shares is
not the exclusive worry of Mr E. N.
Avery, of the AAO Group, though he
has been more vocal on the matter than
any other oil search chairman.
In its annual report Ampol Explora-
tion Ltd says that heavier trading in its
shares last year meant 7203 transfers
involving about one million shares.
The report also gives a useful clue
to West Australian Petroleum Pty Ltd’s
expenditure on exploration last year.
Ampol Exploration’s 20 p.c. share of
WAPET’S expenditure doubled from
£Bl,OOO to £162,000, so the big fellow
must have spent just over £BOO,OOO,
and, from the size of the drilling pro-
gramme this year, it is evident that this
amount will be exceeded by a large mar-
gin in the current term.
'llT’ith Australia apparently committed
” to a protection policy on several in-
dustries, Australian Paper Manufacturers
Ltd can be restored to the list of second-
rank industrial investment.
At 235. 6d., the 20s. shares appear
over-heavily discounted in view of the
surety of sales within Australia. For, at
this price, the shares return 6.9 p.c. on
dividend.
Price : earnings ratio is 10-1 and looks
likely to come lower in the current year
when profit moves higher.
The better result seems certain, stem-
ming from a continued rise in local sales.
Sales should go even further when im-
ported stocks are cleared. Since June
30, board and paper imports have fallen
considerably—and will continue to do
so following reaction to additional (tem-
porary) duties imposed last May.
The shares could be bought now for
price appreciation in 1963. Also, they
appear to be sounder long-term invest-
ment than the market adjudges.
YI/estern Mining will underwrite the
" new issue of 10s. shares on a two-
for-five basis to shareholders at 3s. dis-
count, to be made by Gold Mines of
Kalgoorlie (Aust.) Ltd next month, Mr
G. Lindesay Clark told shareholders at
the annual meeting at GMK last week.
Western Mining, which acts as general
managers and consultants and has a 26
p.c. interest in GMK, will also take up
its entitlement to the new issue.
Talking of the long term future of
GMK, Mr Clark said it would depend
on the continual proving of new major
ore bodies in the Kalgoorlie area. Last
year the company increased its ore re-
serves only marginally, from 1,133,000
to 1,139,000 tons maintaining the
previous 5.9 dwts per ton gold content.
The board is now considering bring-
ing some large lower grade ore bodies
in the district into production. One of
these is at the Mt Charlotte property,
two miles from GMK’s present opera-
tions. It is considered that this massive
complex of auriferous quartz, which
measures 700 by 100 ft, could be ope-
rated much more profitably inte w r ated
with present operations than as a separ-
ate mine.
The company doesn’t expect to parti-
cipate in the grant for gold mining de-
velopment announced in the latest
Federal budget. Though no details of the
allocation of the grant have been an-
nounced, Mr Clark believes that pro-
ducers already receiving subsidies will
miss out.
next blow to confidence seems cer-
A tain to come from Reid Murray
Holdings Ltd. A sizeable loss appears
certain to be disclosed shortly.
Caught in the land web that has so
affected L. J. Hooker, Reid Murray, no
doubt, is faced with similar prospects of
write down.
The shares should best be avoided until
details are disclosed.
HThe new Companies Act has forced
many groups to disclose previously
unsuspected nest eggs in the form of
hidden reserves, e.g., the excess of
market ''alue over book value of invest-
ments.
A really golden egg is due for exhibi-
tion within the next few weeks when
Carlton Investments Ltd publishes its
balance sheet.
The 1961 accounts showed investments
in listed companies, the principal asset,
at cost of £704,005 —equal to about
80s. a 10s. share. But as this has been
built up since 1955 under the careful eye
of Mr N. B. Rydge, a considerably higher
market valuation is assured.
To add to the nest egg, profits over
the past two years have been channelled
back into additional investments div-
idends in 1960-61 and 1961-62 were paid
in both years in the form of a one-for-10
bonus issue.
The shares are currently quoted at
68s. 6d. with no sellers offering—-and
they are obviously underpriced.


BALANCE SHEET
AND
PROFIT
SUMMARIES
(1957 figures
= 100)
1958
1959
1960
1961
Current Assets . .
96
112
134
138
Current Liabilities
86
100
159
179
Working Capital
107
124
108
96
Fixed Assets
104
113
132
158
Investments
100
90
26
37
Intangibles
86
27
—
—
Total Capital
....
104
113
116
127
Represented by:
Loan Capital
89
82
76
85
Minority Interests
264
1154
445
618
Preference Capital
100
100
100
100
Ordinary Capital
....
, OJ
100
104
121
134
Reserves
....
111
129
119
131
Sales
113
127
142
145
Estimated Operating
I ncome
••••
1)2
134
125
122
Earnings
118
138
125
119
Ordinary Dividend
....
••••
105
117
129
141
Surplus
•••*
....
113
137
104
81
COMPANY ANALYSIS
DUNLOP AND OLYMPIC-A COMPARISON
By “SECURITY”
In The Bulletin of September 8 it was
suggested that Olympic Consolidated
was selling “a shade too high” despite the
increase in dividend rate for the 1961-62
year. In arriving at such a conclusion,
comparison with similar companies’
securities plays an important part as well
as comparison of year by year results.
The natural comparison with Olympic is
Dunlop Rubber (Aust.) Ltd.
The activities of the two companies
are not identical although there can be
little doubt that they are competitors over
quite a wide range of their products. In
fact there are more reasons to make com-
parisons between these two companies
than most others. It is, therefore, pro-
posed to examine certain financial fea-
tures from Ist July, 1954, onwards.
The most marked difference between
the two companies is that Olympic has
made much greater use of borrowed
money than Dunlop. At the beginning
of the period Olympic had virtually no
long term borrowings or bank overdraft
whereas at 30th June, 1961, these items
totalled over £5.1 million. Dunlop on
the other hand started with borrowed
money of £ 1,656,000 approximately and
no overdraft and at 30th June, 1961, had
borrowed inclusive of overdraft
£3,671,000 < pproximately. According
to popular belief about gearing, this
greater reliance on borrowings should
have produced greater profits for equity
in the good times (prior to November,
1960), and have made things more diffi-
cult in the last year. However, this does
not appear to have been the position as
earnings as a percentage of ordinary
capital (adjusted for bonus issues only)
have varied as follows:
Year to
June 30 Dunlop Olympic
1955 12.9 20.9
1956 15.0 16.7
1957 15.3 14.7
1958 18.2 16.7
1959 20.5 19.2
1960 18.4 16.8
1961 16.1 15.5
1962 (a) 19.6 19.4
(a) Based on preliminary statements.
Using an average of the first three years
of the series as a base, the following
trends emerge:
Year to
June 30 Dunlop Olympic
1955 90 120
1956 104 96
1957 106 84
1958 126 96
1959 142 110
1960 128 97
1961 112 89
1962 136 112
In absolute terms Olympic’s total capi-
tal employed (net working capital, fixed
assets and investments) has increased to
a greater extent than Dunlop’s over the
period but group net profit before tax,
depreciation and interest on long term
debt has increased to a lesser extent. Such
comparisons do not have a great deal of
meaning and it is preferable to examine
the trend in the profit figure per £.l of
total capital employed. Numerous ad-
justments are necessary here to allow
for subsidiaries acquired during the year,
asset revaluations, etc. However, again
using the same three /ear average as a
base the trend for the two companies is
approximately as follows:
Year to
June 30 Dunlop Olympic
1955 92 115
1956 106 104
1957 101 81
1958 112 85
1959 124 86
1960 111 79
1961 98 77
1962 (a) 110 86
(a) Based on preliminary statements.
If we go back to September, 1955, the
shares of both c )mpanies were selling on
a 5.3 p.c. dividend yield basis. In other
words a £lOOO invested in each should
have given the same income. In effect,
over the period from that date, the div-
idend income from DunUp has been
nearly 23 p.c. greater than Olympic and
the market value of the investment in
Dunlop has shown an appreciation 81 p.c.
greater than the market value of Olympic.
TTistorically, therefore, Dunlop was a
much better investment in 1955 than
Olympic. Nevertheless, at the time of
writing, Dunlop is selling at 425. 3d. to
show a dividend yield of 4.7 p.c. and a
price/earnings ratio of 10.8 p.c. and
Olympic at 10s. lid. to show a dividend
yield of 4.6 p.c. and a price/earnings
ratio of 11.3 p.c. Unless the market is
convinced that from now on Olympic
will show a better performance, it would
seem that either Dunlop is underpriced or
Olympic is overpriced. Taking averages
over the last seven years of dividend
yields and price/earnings ratio, Dunlop
has sold at a dividend yield of about i
of 1 p.c. less than Olympic and at a
price/earning ratio about 10 p.c. greater.
So if Olympic should sell between 9s.
and 10s. Dunlop should sell between 40s.
and 435. 3d.
The previous differential between
prices is probably too high on recent per-
formances and it is suggested that some
weight must be given to the recent im-
provement in Olympic’s record, never-
theless, the record has not been suffici-
ently long sustained to warrant pricing
above Dunlop’s level particularly when
(Continued on page 53)


CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on Btb March, 1950.
0
PER ANNUM 3 YEARS
I
CO 00 N
Va P.A. 3 years
% P.A; 2 years
-
Va % P.A. 12 mths.
„ v; ,
FUNDS MAY BE WITHDRAWN IN A PERSONAL EMERGENCY
APPLICATIONS MUST BE MADE ON THE FORM ATTACHED
TO THE PROSPECTUS. WHICH IS NOW AVAILABLE FROM:
The Company's Registered Offices
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Fir., Empire House. Corner Wharf and Queen Streets.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor. Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street.
PERTH: 81 St. George's Terrace.
CANBERRA: Ist Floor. Northbourne Chambers, Northbourne Ave., City.
NEWCASTLE WEST: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter Street.
WAGGA: 147 Bayiiss Street.
Any Member of the Stock Exchange
or from any of the following Brokers to The Issue:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
TRUSTEES FOR THE NOTEHOLDERS:
Bankers & Traders Insurance Company Limited CCI44/AB
Clip and Post Coupon
Cambridge Credit Corporation Limited,
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me without obligation a copy of the prospectus with application forms.
NAME
ADDRESS
this means a higher price/earnings ratio
for Olympic.
It is suggested that the following
prices would value the stocks on as near
to an “equal'’ basis as can be guessed.
Dunlop 20/- ords: 38/6 42/6 47/-
Olympic 5/- ords: 9/- 10/- 11/
In view of the high level of competi-
tion that is likely to be experienced in
the future, particularly in motor vehicle
tyres and floor coverings, the lowest of
these prices would seem sounder than
the highest. Some evidence of this in-
creasing competition might be apparent
from the percentage of net profit before
tax depreciation and interest to sales.
Dunlop has given sales figures for the
last five years but, unfortunately, they
are not available from Olympic. In
Dunlop’s case, this percentage has de-
clined from just over 7 p.c. in 1956-57
to 6 p.c. in 1960-61.
Dunlop’s balance sheet and profit state-
ment figures have been shown on this
occasion as percentages of the 1957 fig-
ures with a view to exhibiting trends.
1962 figures are not available at present
but it seems likely from the provisional
figures announced recently that earnings
will increase to about 146 p.c. of the
1957 earnings. Bearing in mind that if
the bonus issue in 1959-60 is ignored,
ordinary capital has only increased to
just under 117 p.c. of the 1957 figure,
this seems a very creditable performance
during a difficult period.
ONE TO BUY
DURAL LEEDS YOUNG AND BUOYANT
A company which has proved its
mettle in the fires of the recent
recession is Dural Leeds Holdings Ltd,
the Melbourne equivalent of Hunter
Douglas Ltd (formerly Mellolite) —albeit
in a smaller way.
The 1962 profit has recently been
announced at £70,879, compared with
£65,915 in 1961, the first year as a
public company, and the investigating
accountants’ calculations of £65,649 in
1960, £38,607, £33,769, £23,227,
and £9271 back to 1956, assuming the
company had paid tax at public com-
pany rates.
The latest figure was arrived at after
allowing £3950 more for tax at
£47,750 and £2232 more for deprecia-
tion at £8864.
Dividend on ordinary capital of
£200,000 was lifted from 12$ to 15
p.c., leaving approximately £30,000 for
transfer to reserves.
Competition was keen and the
domestic market could hardly be
described as buoyant in 1961-62, so this
performance was extremely pleasing to
outside observers. Moreover, the group
was in a very liquid position, and was
planning to develop further in the home
improvement field with special emphasis
on aluminium products.
Its products are various types of
window coverings, including the Luxaflex
Venetian blinds, aluminium awnings, in-
sect screens for windows and doors,
canvas blinds and awnings for domestic,
commercial and industrial applications,
and cornice boxes and curtain tracks.
Manufacturing operations are carried
out at Niddrie on the Calder Highway
in a four-year-old factory. Products are
distributed through over 1000 retail
stores in Victoria, Tasmania and southern
NSW.
At about 16s. 6d. the ss. shares yield
4.5 p.c. in income and 10.7 p.c. on earn-
ings, and should appeal to a young
investor growing along with the com-
pany.


SPECULATOR’S DIARY
"Oeing in need of a tonic, it was a
** pleasure to hear Mr Philip
Schrapnel expressing his own enthusi-
astic opinions about the economic out-
look at W. D. Scott’s economic con-
ference at North Sydney last week. “The
1962-63 year must be a good one,” he
said. “I cannot see how it can be any-
thing else.” This utterance automatically
qualified him for membership of the
McRESCHS’ school of economic think-
ing, so-called in honour of its principal
proponents:
M for McDonald (Mr Warren)
C for Coombs (Dr H. C.)
R for Ricketson (Mr Staniforth)
E for the author of this diary
S for Syme (Mr C. York)
C foi Crawford (Sir John)
H for Holt (Mr Harold)
S for Schrapnel (Mr Philip)
(You must excuse my vanity for put-
ting myself in such exalted company.)
By the end of last week, and despite
Mr Hooker, this group of soothsayers
finally seemed to be making some impact
on the sharemarket. But in view of
previous experiences, it would seem rash
to say that the market is on the rise. It
should be, so let’s hope it is.
My first temptation was to buy some
more Courtaulds when they came back
to 10s. 6d. I’d bought 400, a trifle
prematurely as it’s turned out, in July
at 11s. 9d. My usually reliable spies in
the near north tell me that Courtaulds is
at long last flourishing, aided by tariff
protection and a better demand for its
tyre cord and other synthetic fibres. So
I bought just 200 more to reduce my
average price to 11 /4.
Another company with a Newcastle
flavour that hit an enticingly low point
during the week was Brambles. The ss.
shares have come all the way down from
38s. in 1960 and for a day or two last
week sold below 12s. I decided this was
too cheap and bought 400 at 11s. 9d.
Brambles has had its troubles, par-
ticularly in engineering, but now that it
has withdrawn from this field it should
be able to do better again. Directors
certainly seem fully confident because
they went out of their way last month
to say that they expected to be able to
maintain the 20 p.c. dividend rate this
year. At 11s. 9d. the dividend yield was
8 p.c. and from a stock that not so long
ago yielded less than 3 p.c.
Last week I also stood true to my
intention and bought 400 Western
Mining. I was glad I did because at the
weekend it was announced that two
large American mining companies were
joining Western Mining in the develop-
ment of its iron ore deposits in Western
Australia. So now Western Mining has
Alcoa for a partner in aluminium and
Hanna and Homestake in iron ore.
Although the spring air brought
pleasant little whispers about Auto-
mobile and General Finance, I did not
buy any more but looked further down
the classified list to Shipping News-
papers. This could be the first con-
solidated profit brought to light by the
new Companies Act to exceed the mar-
ket’s expectations. The profit so far
announced, some £94,000, is only the
parent profit. The consolidated profit
may not be all that much higher, per-
haps £120,000, but still sufficient to lift
the earning rate on capital to about
40 p.c. And the shares are currently
carrying rights to a l-for-4 issue at 10s.
a share. They could well be higher ex-
rights than they are now cum-rights.
These four purchases were all very
well. But they cost me £864.
The difficulty was that I was loath to
sell anything.
The only one I was prepared to
sacrifice, and that reluctantly, was
Steggles. The price had made a strong
run up to 9s. 6d. before coming back to
9s. The profit 1 made on these was
meagre and the proceeds not even
enough to cover the £246 owing my
broker from the previous week.
This meant I now owe him £B9O.
Some heavy selling will have to be done
in the next week or two.
BOUGHT
200 Courtaulds at 10/6 £lOB
400 Brambles at 11/9 £241
400 Western Mining at 13/3 .... £270
200 Shipping News at 24/- £245
SOLD
500 Steggles at 9/- £220
I’ll refrain from comment on Ready
Mixed’s annual report until after the
annual meeting in Sydney at noon on
Friday. Ready Mixed’s meetings have
usually been pretty lively affairs at the
best of times. This one should be in the
50 megaton range.
The portfolio now consists of:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
600 O’Donnell Griffin 28/8/61 13/6 18/6
2,000 United Motels 20/11/61 3/9 3/9
400 Auto and General
Finance 8/2/62 19/9 26/6
800 Goodwins 21/3/62 5/9 6/2
100 Read} Mixed 6/4/62 17/9 12/8
400 Malleys 3/5/62 20/9 23/6
1,000 Hanimex 23/5/62 4/11 6/1
300 National Consol. 30/5/62 26/1 25/-
300 Marcus Clark notes 22/6/62 27/6 30/-
100 James Hardie 29/6/62 98/- 97/6
200 John Lysaght 18/7/62 62/6 62/6
600 Courtaulds 24/7/62 11/4 11/-
100 CSR 1/8/61 49/- 48/9
400 AWA 10/8/62 20/- 19/6
500 R. W Miller 21/8/62 17/3 18/-
1,000 Peter Lloyd 24/8/62 5/9 6/2
100 AOG 27/8/62 55/6 59/6
1,000 ANI 14/9/62 4/- 4/-
400 Waugh &
Josephson 11/9/62 14/6 16/3
400 Brambles 19/9/62 11/9 13/2
400 Western Mining 19/9/62 13/3 13/3
200 Shipping News 20/9/62 24/- 24/-
NEW SEARCH FOR
N.G. OIL MAY
BE SIGNIFICANT
proposed resumption of oil drilling
in Papua on October 15 in an area
closer to West Irian than any previous
drilling in the territory has possibly wider
significance than just another hole in the
long series drilled there over the last
50 or so years.
The site chosen for the well (its first
for 18 months) by Oil Search Ltd, which
now has 80 p.c. of the equity of Aus-
tralasian Petroleum and Island Explora-
tion, the two operating companies of a
group in which BP and Mobil now hold
only 20 p.c., is 45 miles from the mouth
of the Fly River on the western fringe of
the Gulf of Papua.
The permit to explore over the tene-
ment PIB, which covers 2148 square
miles and in some cases extends offshore,
is held by Island Exploration.
The last two wells to be drilled in
Papua were at Bwata and lehi, about 50
miles inland from the head of the Gulf.
Bwata, in which both BP and Vacuum
participated, was abandoned early in 1959
at 7302 feet and yielded no oil of com-
mercial significance.
lehi, some miles to the west of Bwata,
drilled in 1960-61, but encountered diffi-
culties and, finally, was stopped in Janu-
ary, 1960, at 10,042 feet after discovering
some hydrocarbons.
A first well at Puri was spudded in
October, 1957, but results were anything
but encouraging until a good “strike”
was made in November, 1958. By the
beginning of August, 1958, the drill had
reached 10,100 ft, at which point opera-
tions ceased in a thick mudstone series
of no oil potential interest.
The company then reported that
routine testing of three upper porous
intervals was in progress, and later that
some liquid fractions in small quantities
along with a gas flow at the rate of ap-
proximately 3,000,000 cu. ft a day, had
been obtained at depths of 7460 ft to
7508 ft. It added that the rate of pro-
duction of condensate (about 70 barrels
a day) was far too low to be of any
commercial significance.
The strike at Puri greatly revived inter-
est in oil search in the territory, but
although two deviated holes were drilled
in the discovery well, they failed to reveal
the presence of commercial quantities of
oil.
After Puri the companies drilled a dry
hole 15 miles to the north-west and then
at Bwata and lehi.


INVESTMENT ADVISOR Y SER VICE
Oeaders of The Bulletin can use
a personal investment advisory
service.
If you have an investment prob-
lem, write to the Financial Editor,
attaching the coupon at right.
The Bulletin financial staff will
seek out the information you require.
Selected letters of enquiry will be
published (without the names of
writers) together with the Editor’s
answers.
All communications will be treated
as confidential.
COUPON
ATTACH REQUEST, AND POST
TO:
FINANCIAL EDITOR,
The Bulletin, BOX 2521 G.P.Q.,
SYDNEY
MR
NAME mrs
MISS
ADDRESS:
STATE
THE BULLETIN ADVISORY
SERVICE
From a large number of readers' letters seeking "The
Bulletin's“ advice on investment matters, these have been selected
for publication. The balance have been answered personally.
1 would appreciate your advice re-
garding the advisability of purchasing
Ampol Petroleum 1963 notes. — A.E.C.
(Randwick).
You do not tell us what your invest-
ment requirements are whether prim-
arily income or capital gain, or if you
have any other investments, so our advice
must be qualified.
Ampol has now reached relative
maturity, and we would expect its pro-
gress to be more sedate in the 60s. than
the 50s, with fewer benefits to share-
holders. An important factor is that com-
petition in petroleum distribution is now
acute. But major investments in the pro-
duction of tyres and batteries (with B.
F. Goodrich) and in refining of lubri-
cants (with H. C. Sleigh and Caltex)
provide scope for growth.
However, one should not underrate
Ampol as an investment proposition.
Caltex was prepared to pay 13s. 4d. in
September 1961 for the privilege of hold-
ing 3,000,000 ss. shares which carry the
right to only a 5 p.c. dividend (com-
pared with the present 14 p.c. rate on
ordinary shares) until September 1966
when they convert to ordinary stock.
This issue of deferred shares represent-
ed only 3.5 p.c. of Ampol’s total capital
and convertible notes, so Caltex was not
gaining control by this move. The de-
ferred shares do not entitle Caltex to
participate in any ordinary issues before
1966. If Caltex considered these shares
worth 13s. 4d. then ordinary shares with
very much superior rights must be good
buying at the present price of 11s. 4d.
The 6 p.c. ss. notes which convert to
ordinary shares on May 1, 1963 last sold
around 10s. 2d. to return 3 p.c. So there
is a potential capital gain (assuming the
shares at least maintain that price by
conversion date) of Is. 2d. over seven
months. After allowing for the 4.8 d.
per unit difference in income, there is
apparently a 9d. advantage in buying the
notes if you decide to enter the com-
pany.
★ ★ ★
What is the new standing of Buckle
Motors? — R. T. ( Gunnedah ).
Buckle Motors was formed in 1928 as
a motor distributor and in earlier years
did fairly well. But losses have been in-
curred every year since 1957.
In August 1961, Coastal Pacific Con-
solidated Ltd acquired 75 p.c. of the
issued capital with an offer of Is. 9d. cash
for three out of every four shares held in
the company. Coastal Pacific has the
backing of Wheelock Morden and Co.
Ltd and Hong Kong Realty and Trust
Co., both listed on the Hong Kong Stock
Exchange.
The company still conducts motor dis-
tribution, having a Citroen franchise. The
volume of business is currently double
what it was a year ago. The loss for the
six months to April was substantially
lower than in the previous four months.
With its new interests the company could
operate profitably in the 1962-63 year,
particularly with the advantage of past
losses as a deduction for tax purposes.
At the current price of 4/- there could
be some long range chance of capital
appreciation, brt dividend payments still
appear to be a long way in the future.
★ ★ ★
1 have limited resources, although in-
creasing, and desire to purchase an in-
terest in the share market. My concern
is with possible capital appreciation as
the amount invested will not be great.
I thought for a start to buy 100 BMP
shares, £lOO in Government loan, 50
shares in Tarax and 75 in Moulded
Products. Do you agree with these and
could you advise as to possible extension
of my portfolio.—J.W.H., Mayfield.
You did not state your age or total
sum available to invest and we are some-
what confused by your choice of invest-
ments whether you do really prefer capi-
tal appreciation to income.
For a start there will be no capital
growth from a Government loan.
We approve of your selection of BFIP
at present prices, as even if they go
slightly lower they are bound to
strengthen later in the year.
Trading on the stock market is usu-
ally accomplished in what are described
as “marketable parcels”. If the price of
the share is less than 50s. a marketable
parcel is 100 shares, and from 50s. to
£5 a parcel is 50 shares. To buy 50
Tarax and 75 Moulded Products shares,
which are “odd lots”, you would have to
pay an additional brokerage rate.
It is therefore more convenient and
economical to deal in multiples of 100.
Tarax Drinks is quite a good choice.
Present price of 20s. gives a yield of 5
p.c. The profit for 1961-62 was lower
than in the previous years, but for justi-
fiable reasons. Directors explained it was
a year of establishment and consolida-
tion, especially in regard to the intro-
duction of canned drinks and entry to
the Sydney market.
Moulded Products ss. shares are sell-
ing about 14s. 6d. to yield 4.8 p.c.,
although in the calendar year 1961 pro-
fits did not cover the usual 14 p.c. divi-
dend, because of severe imports competi-
tion. Results in the June 1962 six months
were a material improvement on 1961
levels though not up to 1960 levels.
The present market seems to be rather
too optimistic about the future, and we
do not consider them particularly good
buying at the moment.
Purchase of 100 H. C. Sleigh shares
at 10s. 7d. could be a suitable invest-
ment for you, as this would give you
entree to the only fully integrated com-
pany in the petro-chemical business after
merger with Bitumen and Oil. Your in-
come return from this investment should
be superior to that from Mouldeds, and
the breadth of the new organisation
should give you greater security and
growth potential.


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
G. J. COLES AND CO. LTD.
BETTER BUYING THAN SELLING
'Though beaten to the £lOO million
"*■ turnover barrier, G. J. Coles can
consider 1961-62 trading results with
satisfaction. Profit was a record, and
earning rate slightly improved on higher
average capital.
Since the group broke into the busi-
ness of food retailing, sales have in-
creased from £49 million to £97 mil-
lion, and profit after tax from
£1,795,000 to £3,296,000. Although the
profit margin on food was not ex-
pected to equal that on variety goods,
the latest year’s result shows a material
improvement from 2.8 p.c. on total sales
in 1961 to 3.4 p.c. in 1962.
This was achieved despite severe com-
petition, specifically mentioned in refer-
ence to the SA food chain previously
known as S. O. Beilby Ltd.
The directors’ review is devoted al-
most entirely to the activities of the
food stores. The company was appar-
ently ruthless in eliminating unprofitable
units —36 small grocery stores in NSW
were closed during the year to June 30
—and in disposing of .11 activities out-
side retailing. Thus the wholesale liquor
business of John Connell and Crawford
and Co., the manufacturing and bottling
business of M. Moss, the fruit cordial
business of R. B. Manufacturing Pty,
the wholesaling and manufacturing ope-
rations of Matthews Thompson, have
been disposed of.
The chain of food stores now totals
306, of which 195 operate under the
name of Coles Food Market, and 111
under the name of Goodways in New-
castle, Goodlands in Canberra and
Dickins in Victoria.
G. J. Coles consolidated its position
in the front ranks of Australian retail-
ing by the takeover of Selfridges in
1949, O. Gilpins in 1951, Mantons in
1955, Penneys in 1956, John Connell
and Dickins in 1958, Wilkinson and Co.
and S. O. Beilby in 1959, and Mathews
Thompson (including S. R. Buttle, Syd-
ney Cash and Carry and Rodneys) in
1960. The latter group was wrested
from Woolworths’ group.
Issues to shareholders have been fre-
quent; par issues in 1951, 1954, 1955,
1957, and the last in March 1960 in
the ratio of three-for-ten. Bonuses have
been distributed to shareholders in 1957
and 1959. A share placement, involving
2.4 million ss. shares was also made in
1959.
Judging by the deterioration in the
working capital position, another share
issue seems likely within the next year.
Liability under loans at call increased
over the year from £2.4 to £3.6 mil-
lion. On the other hand the company
had short term deposits of £1.25 mil-
lion which would cover the £1,174,000
contracts outstanding for capital expen-
diture.
Concentration on developing larger
stores and supermarkets with parking
facilities should allow G. J. Coles to
gradually improve profit margins. The
physical expansion of the last two years
or so should not be equalled again for a
time, enabling some reinforcement of
reserves.
The most interesting recent develop-
ment in the variety business was the
completion of the 4-Street Super Store
in the heart of Sydney in November
1961 during the previous financial year.
It has counters extending over a mile,
making it easily the largest store of its
type on this side of the globe. The total
investment in this store land, build-
ing, fittings, plant and stock —was £3.5
million. This store should have done
much to redress Coles’ position in NSW.
Shareholders may, at the annual meet-
ing on October 16, hear more of the
company’s progress with a new distri-
bution centre at Mascot.
A purchase at current price of 13s.
provides a sound income return of 4.2
p.c., plus excellent prospects of capital
appreciation. To date in this calendar
year the ss. units have been traded be-
tween 12s. and 14s. lid. At present
prices they look infinitely better buying
than selling.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARIES £'ooo
June 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 8391 9513 9777 11,925 12,447
Less current
liabilities 5005 5658 8882 11,323 12,780
Working capital 3386 3855 895 597 —333
Deferred assets 88 114 156
Investments .. 79 170 179 190 240
Fixed assets .... 18,105 21,362 24,578 31,752 35,140
Intangible assets 867 916 933 4304 4307
Total capital .22,437 26,303 26,673 36,957 39,510
Represented by:
Capital in ad-
vance ... 3193
Loan capital .... 5837 5886 5276 5483 5260
Minority inter-
ests 450 470 470 608 590
Preference capi-
tal 150 150 150 150 150
Ordinary capi-
tal 11,576 13,003 14,513 16,879 21,943
Reserves 4424 6794 6264 10,644 11,567
22,437 26,303 26,673 36,957 39,510
Sales 49,026 59,749 66,981 92,001 97,469
Profit % to
sales .... 3.7 3.1 3.0 2.8 3.4
Depreciation .... 349 447 582 815 927
Taxation .... 980 1050 1166 1638 2192
Net p ofit .... 1795 1794 2051 2510 3296
Earnings for
ords 1783 1782 2039 2498 3284
Capital profit —1 1 35 103 31
Ord. divs 1350 1406 1596 1857 2414
Surplus 432 377 478 744 901
Earn, p.c 15.3 13.9 14.1 14 8 15.0
Dividends p.c. 11 2/3 11 11 1! 11
Earn, yield (a) 3 1 3.0 4.3 4.2
High price (b) 26/3 19/9 21/4 19/9 15/1
Low price (b) 16/10 17/6 16/8 13/8 11/4
JAMES STEDMAN
TAKEOVER SPAR REVEALS ASSETS
'Takeover battles have the habit of
A bringing out the best—or the worst
—in a company either as a defensive
move or as additional bait—and the
sparring between James Stedman Ltd and
Life Savers (A/asi. ' Ltd for Smalls
Chocolate Holdings Ltd was no excep-
tion.
With both offers about equal on market
valuations, Stedman directors had to find
additional sweetenings for their offer.
They pointed out that in the company’s
42 year history the fixed assets had never
been revealed.
The 43rd annual report showed that
they really meant what they said. The
Rosebery, NSW, freehold was written up
to the 1961 VG figure of £702,500 —
almost double the book figure at June 30,
1961, of £378,338 for the whole of
the company's freehold. The Auckland,
NZ, property still appears in the books
at cost, less depreciation, of £302,809.
The James Stedman Henderson group
came int being in 1917, following the
amalgamation of the 50-year-old James
Stedman Ltd and the 20-year-old Hender-
son’s Sweets Ltd. The group built a
factory at Rosebery and has occupied
this site ever since. Public listing was
achieved in 1933 and since then the
company has been a consistent profit
earner and dividend payer.
Distribution of its products has been
handled, almost since formation, by the
Nestles group, which distributes through-
out Australia and New Zealand.
Despite high profitability, particularly
during the 50s, the company had offered
no capital benefits to shareholders until
1959. Capital remained unchanged until
that year at £50,000 in 20s. 10 p.c. first
prefs, the same number of 10 p.c. second
prefs and 530,690 20s. ordinary shares
However, in late 1959, a new Canberra
registered company James Stedman Ltd
was formed to acquire all the shares in
the old company on a two-for-one basis


PATRICK & COMPANY
Members ol the Sydney Slock Kxehanu
16 O’Connell St.. Sydney
25-591] (20 lines)
150 Queen St.. (Melbourne
67-5957 (7 lines)
43 Northbourne Ave.,
City, Canberra, A.C.T.
4 0365-66
Flinders House, Crown St., Wollongong
B 5900
Telegram.-- ana Cables
‘Rosdale” Sydney iVlelbourn
oi Wolloneone
LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Sixth Floor,
56 Hunter Street. Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Telephone. BVV 5721
Telegrams and Cables:
“LAG RAM.” Sydney
WANTED TO BUY
FOR CASH
Shares, listed or unlisted,
Forestry Bonds, etc.
J. VV GRANT & CO.
549 St. Kilda Road.
Melbourne.
Telephones: 51-6243 51-6245
Est. 1939
A. L. NEVIT7. DRAPER & CO.
A L NEVIT'I. A L ORAPE7R.
N W C DRAPER
(Members 01 Unsbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor.
The National Mutual Life Building.
297 Queen Street. Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address- “NEVIT'I LO"
Phone. 31-2761 P.O BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH.
2 Denham Street. Phone 6U89
HELP
all the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM 2001.
for ordinary shares (virtually a one-for-
one bonus) and a one-for-one basis for
the prefs.
This had the effect of doubling ordi-
nary capital to £1,061,385. Dividend
for the first year after the reconstruction
was 10 p.c., equal to 20 p.c. on the old
capital, compared with 15 p.c. the pre-
vious year. Profit of £204,720 was
squal to 18.3 p.c. on ordinary capital
if ter £lO,OOO pref. charges, or the
equivalent of 36.6 p.c. on the old capital.
Since the reconstruction, profit has con-
tinued to improve steadily. Although
Australians ate fewer sweets during the
credit squeeze (despite the company’s
sales line of “In moments like these
. . .”) profit in 1960-61 rose to £211,852
(18.9 p.c. on capital) and topped this
with a record £292,093 (26.6 p.c.) last
year.
Dividend tor 1960 and 1961 was a
well covered 10 p.c. An interim at the
same rate was paid for 1962 but follow-
ing a decision to enter the lists with Life
Savers foi Smalls, a final li p.c. was
announced. As an additional attraction,
the 20s. shares were split into ss. units.
On dividend returns Stedman had quite
an edge of Life Savers but attracted by
the high market premium on Life Savers
and the higher earning rate, Smalls
directors supported this offer and Sted-
man withdrew. However, perhaps to
show Smalls' shareholders what they had
missed, the Rosebery plant was written
up to the 1961 VG figure. The Auck-
land plant was opened early this year
and appears at cost.
This write up cieated a revaluation
reserve of £488,1 ”'9 bringing capital re-
serves to £535,100. General reserves
and surplus profits lift total reserves to
£1,239,054, including goodwill on con-
solidation of £5 30,690 In addition
there is a provision (perhaps more cor-
rectly called a reserve) for exchange
fluctuation of £115,639.
These give the 20s. first prefs an assets
backing of £55/7/11, the 20s. seconds
£54/7/11, and the ss. ords 11s. sd.
The latest amounts show a fall in in-
vestments, which directors explain only
by the fact that the new figures are pre-
pared to meet the requ.rements of th:
new Companies Act Government bonds
are about stead at £417,307 while
shares in listed companies at June 30
last appear at £274,754 (with a market
value of £310,940). Shares in unlisted
companies and mortgages appear at
£81,463.
In 1961 bonds appeared at £447,307,
shares in companies at £229,295, and
“other investments” at £506,375. It
appears that these other investments were
principally interest bearing deposits for,
in the 1962 figur , the company’s holding
in these and cash balances totalled
£461,208 compared with cash balances
only of £88,599 a year earlier. In the
latest year stock is about steady at
£474,889 while creditors also show little
movement.
Having once demonstrated a willing-
ness to expand, it is obvious that Sted-
man directors do not intend to stay in a
tight wrapper. New moves can always be
expected when the opportunity offers. It
is also unlikely that shareholders will have
to wait another 39 for a capital
benefit.
At 21s. the ss. shares give a 3 p.c.
dividend yield and a 6.3 p.c. earnings
yield. At this price and in current market
conditions there appear prospects of only
small capital appreciation, but the shares
can well be bought for future capital
benefits. The 10 p.c. prefs have both
itely sold about 295.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARIES £ 000
June 30 1960 19-61 1962
Current assets 858 658 1253
Less current, liabilities 469 503 608
Working Capital 389 355 644
Investments 1055 1183 774
Fixed assets 552 612 1351
intangibles 531 531 531
2527 2681 3300
Represented by:
Rref. capital 100 100 100
3rd, capital 1061 1061 1061
Reserves 1366 1520 2139
2527 2681 3300
Depreciation 38 39 52
Taxation 192 207 201
Net earnings 205 212 292
Earnings for ord. 195 202 282
Ord. dividend 106 106 133
Surplus 89 96 149
Earnings p.c. 18.3 18.9 26.6
Dividend p.c. 10 10 12 ! /i
Dividend yield (a) 3.2 3.2 3
High (b) (ci 72/ 18/6 22/
Low (b) (C) 49/ 13/IV2 17,6
(a) Early Sept., month accounts presented,
bl Previous calendar year.
(c 1 20s. basis.
GELATINE FOR LADDERS
A weekly women's magazine has co-
operated with Davis Gelatine Con-
solidated Ltd to publicise a means of
minimising one of the biggest snags in
a woman’s life—the laddered stocking.
The formula is to soak brand new
stockings in a solution of gelatine in
water.
If this really is magic, women may well
ask why this job is not done in the
hosiery factory.
Davis shareholders can ponder whether
it would have been better for their com-
pany to do a deal with the hosier, or
hope that the idea will introduce Davis
Gelatine to a host of new homes and
accelerate its use amongst existing con-
sumers.
Meantime their 20s. shares put on a
couple of shillings to 345., yet the con-
tributing shares, with another 7s. 6d. to
pay on January 7 next, lagged behind at
about 235. 3d. permitting eventual entry
for an outlay of 30s. 9d. Though an un-
exciting stock under present conditions of
import competition, at this price it is a
good, sound investment for income.


Legal Notices
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: PEDRO NORVIS.—TAKE NOTICE that
JUDITH GRACE NORVIS has filed a Petition for
divorce No. 2877 of 1962 on the ground of de-
sertion. If you wish to defend you may enter an
answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint Building,
Macquarie Street, Sydney on or before the 6th
November 1962 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from C. P. DIGNAM, Solicitor
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS’
Registrar. ’
Company
Par
Value
Last
Sale
1961
Prices—
14/9/62
21/9/62
D1V.
Rate
P.o
DlV.
Vield
p.c.
Earn,
Rate
p.c.
Earn.
Yield
P c.
Amalgamated Chemicals
5/
14/3
17/10
17/1 i
12%
3.5
21.4
6
A.W.A
• »
5/
20/m
19/9
19/6
14
3.6
22
5 6
Ampol .. .. ,,
5/
11/4
11/3
11/6
14
6.1
19
8.2
A.R.C
10/
46/3
50/
48 U
15
3
35.1
7
Associated Pulp
20/
29/3
29/5
29'3
6
4.1
6.3
4.2
Aust. Chemicals ..
10/
30/4%
18/
18/
83/4
4.9
8.4
4.7
A.C.I
20/
72/6
59/
61 6
8-1/3
27
14.5
4.7
Aust. Guarantee ..
5/
14/
13/9
13/9
Id
5.5
19
7
Aust. Gypsum ..
5/
14/3
13/
13/
10
3.9
15.3
6.1
A.P.M. .. .
20/
25/3
24/
23/8
8-1/3
6.9
11.9
10
Bank N.S.W
£20
£34
£ 41%
£42
9
4.3
12.2
3 8
Bitumen and Oil ..
5
24/
22/6
23/
17%
3.7
32
5.5
Blue Metal md.
5/
22/7 Va
19/10
20/4
15
3.7
27.6
6.9
Bradford Cotton
5/
7/6
6/9
5/7
10
7.6
6.2
4.7
British Tobacco ..
20/
25/
24/6
26.
9
6.9
9.7
7.5
b.h.p. .. ...
20/
69/
51/9
53/9
6%
2.3
13.7
7.2
Burns Philp ..
20/
91/
95/9
95/3
10
2.1
18 6
3.9
C.S.R. .. ..
20/
£ 5-9 a
47/
48/9
9%
3.9
14.8
6.1
C.A.G.A
5/
11/3
9/10
9/9
10
5.1
12.4
6.4
C.I.G
30/
£5
89/
89/3
11
2.5
25.3
5.6
Commercial Onion
5/
19'3
19/
18,6
7
1.8
20.1
5
Concrete Ind.
6/
15/1 Va
12/2
13/
10
3.8
16.6
5.4
Cox Bros. .,
• •
5/
7/6
7/7
7/4
10
7
11.3
79
C.R.A
5/
—
15/6
18/
12
3.7
—
—
Custom Credit
• •
5/
13/
10/4
10/5
15
7.2
18.2
8.7
Cyclone
10/
26/
26/3
21/
10
4.8
10 8
5
Dalgety-N.Z. Loan
25/
40/9
40/9%
8
4.9
13.9
3.1
David Jones
8/
18/9
17/8
17/8
12%
3.5
23.7
8.1
Drug Houses ..
20/
69/
67/
67/3
11%
3.3
17.7
5 4
Dunlop Rubber
« *
20/
35/
42/
41/
10
4.9
19.8
9.7
Elder G. M
10/
15/3
16/
8
5
—
—
Electronic ,- 8”
10/
13/3
16/
16/2
12%
7.7
—
—
Email
5/
7/6
7/4
7/3
10
6.9
11
7.5
E.Z. Ind
10/
12/11
12/6
12/2
10
8.2
12.4
10.3
Felt and Textiles .
5/
6 11
7/11
7. 6
10
6.7
15 2
10 2
G. J. Coles
5/
13/6
13/
13/1
11
4.2
15
5.7
H. C. Sleigh .. ..
5/
11/
10/7
11/1
12'/a
5.6
13 4
6
Henry Jones .. ..
20/
80/
70/
68'
10
2.9
28 6
8.4
H. G Palmer ..
5/
15/6
15/9
15 6
12%
4
33 4
10.3
Howard Smith
20/
54/
44/9
45/
10
4.4
13.6
6
Humes .. ..
20/
70/6
76/6
76/
14
3.7
21.8
6.4
I.A.C
5/
13/4
10/6
10 11
11-2 3
5.4
20.6
9 4
I.C.I. A.N.Z.
20/
38/
39/6
33/9
7
3.6
9.7
4.4
J. Gadsden ..
10/
15/3
18/
17/11
8
4.4
10.4
5.8
Kandos Cement
8/
17/6
17 1
12%
3.6
13.5
3.9
Kelvinator
5/
18/3
19/3
19/
15
3.9
28.6
7.5
Lend Lease .. ..
5/
20/
14 TO
15/6
10
3.2
21.5
6.9
L. J. Hooker ..
0/
7/
3/6
3 10
—
—
—
—
Mercantile Credits
• •
5/
8/8
9/5
8. 10
12%
5.6
14.9
9.4
McPhersons
20/
47/
39/3
40
8-1/3
4,1
12.4
5.6
Minster
10'
62/
72/
71/9
20
2.8
40 4
5.7
Moulded Products ..
5/
13/2
14/6
14 •'
14
5
17.3
64
Mt. Isa Mines
5/
71/6
61/6
62 0
25
2
35.6
2 9
Mutual Acceptance
5/
8/10
10-6
9/9
15
7.7
22.5
11 6
Myer
5/
29/
29/
29 6
16-2/3
2.8
28.3
4 9
National Consolidated
5/
27/
25/6
25/
20
4
35.3
7
Olympic Industries
5/
7/7
10 9
10/9
10
4.6
16.3
9.1
Peters (Vic. i
2/
8/6
7/10
7 11
15
3 8
21.4
5.4
Petrochemical
20/
26/
25/3
27/9
G
4.3
-5.9
4 3
R.M. Concrete
5/
17'4%
12/
12.'3
12%
4.9
13
5.1
Reid Murray ,,
5/
8/3
2/4%
2'4
—
—
9.4
20 5
Repco .. ....
5/
l?/3
14/5
14 4
11-2/3
3.5
18.8
6.3
Rothmans .. ..
10/
B7 6a
34/
34/S
17%
5.1
33.1
9 6
Thiess
5/
13/
9/10
9 8
12%
6.5
14.4
a.5
Tooth .. ..
20
69/
67/
67/
13%
4.1
15.9
4.5
Onion Carbide ..
20/
80/
60/6
61/
10
3.3
8.4
2.7
Waltons
5/
13/8
14/6
14 6
12%
4.3
15.7
7 4
Wool worths
5/
15/4
13/11
13/3
12
4.4
15.4
5.7
Wormald
5/
11/10
11/4
11/6
10
4.3
13 1
5 0
W R Carpenter
a Before share split.
••
5/
30/
31/8
30 6
15
2.5
35.1
6.1
Banks,
etc.
Other
Finance
Pastoral
Retailers
Base
Metals
All
Ords.*
Industrials
December
22.
1961
.. 137.37
541.02
182.31
389.15
604.15
299.07
3LS.74
September
14.
1962
.. 159.23
552.21
177.19
357.87
507.44
283.75
296 19
September
17,
1962
.. 159.12
549.39
176.57
355.11
522.26
233.54
296 52
September
18.
1962
.. 159.49
550.54
177.17
354.68
-532.24
234.00
297.10
September
19.
1962
. . 164.69
554.39
179.19
356.91
523.73
286.69
299.55
September
20.
1962
.. 159.91
556.16
180.21
357.34
516.71
286.93
300 65
September 21,
•Peak 348.46
1962 .. 160.21 557.05
September 16, 1960.
181.74
353.95
511.90
286.50
299.75
AVERAGE
V1ELD ON 100 ORDINARY SHAKES
50 Other Stocks—
Sample
Div. Yield Earn. Yield
Div. Yield °Earn. Yield
December
22,
1961 ..
.. 4.26
6.13
5.30
7.48
September
14.
1962 ..
.. 4.56
6.53
5.18
1.97
September
17,
1962 ..
.. 4.57
6.54
5.20
1.77
September
18,
1962 ..
.. 4.57
6 54
5.19
1.76
September
19,
1962 ..
.. 4.53
6.25
5.20
2 14
September
20,
1962 ..
# ,
.. 4.56
6.19
5.17
1.93
September
21,
1962 ..
.. 4.58
8.23
5.16
1.93
MARKET SHOWS
A REVIVAL
■Dome revival of faith was evident on
stock markets last week with the
first improvement in the market index
after about ten days of decline.
Investors subconsciously decided that
BHP, for instance, had reached bedrock
and bid it up from 51s. 9d. to 545. 6d.
ACI and CSR followed suit with firmer
orders.
Mt Isa shares sank to a long-time low
of 58s. on announcement of its 43 p.c.
profit setback, but later attracted buyers
and the price rallied.
All sections of the index benefited
except transport and the non-ferrous
metals. Trading was brighter than it had
been for some time, but by the end of
the week there were minor relapses.
This is the sort of painf .1 battle we
shall see in the coming months. The
run down-hill, like skiing, is fatefully
easy. The ascent involves much back
slipping, and fearful looks over one’s
shoulder to see how the rest are doing.
The balance sheet season is now on
with a vengeance, and isolated shock
statements from front rankers as well
as rank outsiders have tended to ob-
scure the generally solid results, having
regard to the adverse conditions in which
these were registered.
It is now just over two years since
the Stock Exchange climaxed to boom
madness. September 16, 1960 recorded
348.46 in the index for all ordinary
shares. In that time we have had two
annual reports from companies with the
popular balance date of June 30.
In 1960-61 some companies managed
to cover-up difficulties they had ex-
perienced in the second half of the year
because of figures written in the first
half. They issued hopeful predictions
of an early recovery to satisfy the natu-
rally optimistic instincts of the investing
public.
In the latest year some of these de-
ceptions have been unveiled—either by
management determined to cut pretence
and start with a clean slate, or by the
very enormity of their trading troubles.
The net result is that genuine inves-
tors have fresh evidence supporting their
standards for judging the fair-weather
stocks and all-weather stocks.
LEADING SHARE PRICES
SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE INDICES
MELBOURNE STOCK EXCHANGE


MARKETING
UNIQUE POINT-OF-SALE
EXHIBITION
An exhibition of point-of-sale display
material, the first of its type ever
held in Australia, is being sponsored by
the Australian Association of National
Advertisers. It will be held at the State
Ballroom, under Sydney’s State Theatre,
from October 9 to 12.
Mr lan Milbank, advertising man-
ager of the British Motor Corporation,
who is chairman of the organising com-
mittee, says that the response of display
material manufacturers has been most
enthusiastic.
And well it might since these manu-
facturers have never before had an
opportunity to exhibit their work as a
combined group. Indeed, this section
of the advertising and publicity indus-
try has no trade association of any kind,
and they have never previously been
brought together as a group of people
sharing a common interest and having
to face common problems.
The AANA merits the thanks of
the whole advertising profession for hav-
ing sponsored the exhibition rather than
waiting for some enterprising private PR
firm to cash in on the idea and reap
a rich reward. This exhibition will be
on a purely non-profit basis, and if there
is a surplus, it will be returned to the
exhibitors.
The idea behind the exhibition is to
provide education in point-of-sale ad-
vertising, upon which many millions o!
pounds are spent annually. Those tak-
ing part will collect the most up-to-date
material available in Australia, covering
every retail outlet.
Mr Milbank says he believes that
Australian point-of-sale material is now
of world standard, and he feels that
1961-62, with its more competitive trad-
ing, has brought about a more thought-
ful understanding and imaginative ap-
proach to the use of displays. Many
users of point-of-sale aids, however, are
not aware of the vast amount and range
of material available.
The material to be shown will cover
display cards, posters, condensers, dis-
pensers, illuminated and motivated signs
and many other aids to selling goods.
Special attention has been given to mate-
rial which has been designed specifically
as space savers, as retailers are now
turning to unconventional point-of-sale
material to save valuable store space.
All sections of the business commun-
ity, including Chambers of Commerce
and Manufactures, advertising agencies
and business houses, will be invited to
attend. Although largely a trade dis-
play, the public will also be welcomed,
and a special invitation will be extended
to students doing the advertising course
at Sydney Technical College.
MADISON AV. APPROACH TO
SOUTH AMERICAN EXPORTS
By M. E. LOPEZ
A n intricate pattern of bright colors in-
troduces the latest entrant into the
field of Australian magazine publishing
—“EI Comerciante Australiano” (“The
Australian Trader”). It is an esoteric
50 pages of slick paper printed in
Spanish for distribution among South
American businessmen.
The magazine is printed by the High-
light Printing Co., of Surry Hills, for
Export Promotions and is under the gen-
eral editorship of C. R. Herk. Its in-
tention is exclusively that of promoting
Australian exports in South America, and
for that reason very few Australians will
ever see it. This is something of a shame
because, through its contents, it casts an
interesting light on the state of con-
temporary Australian business its
view of itself and of its possibilities.
“El Comerciante” opens with a curi-
ously frank article entitled “Export or
Stagnate”, in which the export needs of
modern Australia are sketched, particu-
larly in relation to diminishing traditional
markets. The hopes for the future, and
the difficulties to be overcome, are tersely
expressed by the remark that “Probably
our ignorance of South America is only
equalled by the lack of knowledge in
South America of Australia.” If the
editors had set out to capture the Aus-
tralian “image” they could not have done
a better job.
In reading the lead article, one easily
forms a picture of rugged, friendly and
immensely honest individualism. The
growth of secondary industry is traced,
using such expressions as that before
World War II Australian engineers “had
difficulty in producing tiny combustion
motors” and pointing out that Australia
has industrialised largely through the
necessity, imposed by World War 11, ot
having to “improvise”. The tone is cer-
tainly endearing, and it may be good
business.
Following this lead article come six
pages of pictures and assorted titbits
concerning life generally in Australia.
There are pictures of stock crossing a
river under an overhanging gum bough,
of the Snowy Mountains, etc., and short
articles about Australian cities (with an
anecdote at Melbourne’s expense), and
about the development levels of some
striking or unusual industries the
manufacture of poker machines, for in-
stance.
The bulk of the magazine is taken up
with full page advertisements and ex-
planatory copy. Excluding banks, some
30 companies have placed advertisements
in the first issue of “El Comerciante”.
They include the predictable range of
agricultural implements, seeds and hand
tools, but there are a few surprises. Two
toy makers have advertised and one
producer of lawn bowls.
The variety of the advertisers lends
an air of optimism to the magazine. A
layman might not have dreamt that so
many different types cf businesses exist-
ed successfully in this country (and of
course those represented are but a drop
in the backet). He surely would not have
supposed that they could seriously con-
sider competing in a new market area
long the hegemony of the United States
and Europe.
This confidence of Australian business-
men in the quality of their products and
in their ability to compete is a good
sign even a slightly exhilarating one.
All in all, “El Comerciante” is itself
an exhilarating indication of things to
come. It is, when one considers that it
is a first attempt, an impressive under-
taking. Perhaps as little as two years
ago, no one would have thought Austra-
lian businessmen capable of the effort
and interest involved in preparing a high-
level promotional magazine in a foreign
language, let alone in one that hardly
anyone in Australia could speak, for
circulation in a continent that even fewer
knew anything of.
Now, however, the expense has been
met (an estimated £3,000) and the maga-
zine is ready for distribution, with future
copies planned for thrice yearly issues.
And the future issues will probably be
even more smoothly done except that
the Highlight Printing Co. will have to
learn, in setting its type, that not all
languages (none, in fact) conform to
English rules of syllabication.
There are also plans for a similar
magazine for distribution in Central
America and the Caribbean area. Per-
haps, if “El Comerciante” is successful,
there will be an issue in Portuguese for
Brazilian consumption.


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
SUGAR INDUSTRY STILL AWAITS
COMMON MARKET TALKS
By “NORTHERNER”
npHE general tenor of Queensland life
these days seems to involve not only
constant nagging at the rest of the Com-
monwealth for giving the “Sunshine
State” a raw deal in the past, but a dis-
like of the whole world for being reticent
about buying its sugar.
And there is some justification for this
feeling apparently ingrained into every
Queenslander from the moment he starts
plucking bananas from Dad’s tree in the
back yard. For this is certainly the
State with great undeveloped resources —
prodigious mineral wealth, millions of
acres of unused agricultural and pastoral
land, the only State with a real smell of
oil—yet Queensland’s economy is still
precariously balanced on the sale of its
sugar.
This one commodity brings Queens-
land about £5O million each year—the
State’s largest money spinner.
Queenslanders are acutely aware of
this—so much so that there is a multi-
plicity of organisations all contributing
to the affairs of this one staple com-
modity. One finds such bodies as the
Central Sugar Cane Prices Board, the
Queensland Sugar Board, the Cane Grow-
ers’ Council, the Australian Sugar Pro-
ducers’ Association, the Bureau of Sugar
Experimental Stations and so on, all with
a finger in this not so sweet pie.
If we move to a more governmental
level, we find a welter of State legisla-
tion concerned with the industry (too
frightening for the layman to contem-
plate) leading to a considerable degree of
Commonwealth legislation putting its seal
upon the whole conglomeration.
Even further up the scale we find a
British Commonwealth Sugar Agreement
which turns out to be but a part of an
International Agreement, which, however,
seems to be creaking a little.
But, surprisingly enough, the Queens-
land sugar industry appears to be re-
markably efficient. The recent report of
the Sugar Enquiry Committee contained
much that was laudatory, one comment
being—“ There is no evidence of in-
efficiency in any section of the industry.
There is, on the contrary, evidence that
there has been no relaxation of efforts
further to improve efficiency.”
Just how is this unwieldly State-wide
enterprise run? And how is it going
to fare in the coming decade, with a
European Common Market quite likely
to delete its major market?
We find in Queensland and Northern
New South Wales about 8,200 cane farms
grouped around 34 mills. Each farm has
an assigned area on which it can grow
its cane (and, therefore, must have an
enforced area to fallow) and a farm
peak, which is the tonnage of cane ac-
cepted by the mill from each farmer.
All cane is acquired by the Queensland
Sugar Board, which is the legal market-
ing authority; in actual function this is
delegated to CSR (and a small portion
to the Millaquin Sugar Co.) which does
the refining and handles and finances the
overseas marketing for Australian raw
sugar.
It is here that the paternal Common-
wealth influence comes in, as since 1926
there has been a nation-wide embargo on
sugar imports and a uniform price
throughout Australia. On this compara-
tively high-priced foundation, the remain-
ing sugar can be sold overseas at' far
lower values, thus enabling an averaged
return to farmers that makes their live-
lihood worthwhile.
Of course, overseas sales are handled
largely within the framework of inter-
national agreements; Australia sells the
bulk of its output to the United Kingdom
via the British Commonwealth Sugar
Agreement. Australia has a definite quota
in Britain of 600,000 tons which may
be exceeded only hen other Common-
wealth members fail to fill their quota.
The balance of Australia’s exports depend
on world conditions of supply and de-
mand.
An interesting market is developing
in Japan, and with Cuba’s loss of the
United States’ quota, it is hoped that
healthy sales there will be maintained.
The Common Market countries pro-
pose an ad-valorem tariff of 80 p.c. on
sugar imports. If British entry to the
E.E.C. eventuates, it will most certainly
imply loss of the major portion of the
£l7 million annual sales to the UK —•
hardly a prospect to be viewed with glee!
However, if we examine statements by
the various sugar authorities, the main
sentiments expressed appear to be of
optimism. In one case, to take a more
publicised example, the Colonial Sugar
Refining Company presented us ./ith an
unexpectedly encourr ing report. If one
is to try to read between the lines, one
might feel that the recent conferences in
London concerning Australian quotas on
the UK market may have given Austral-
ian representatives some assurance that
has not been brought to the public
notice. Let us hope so!
WHY AUST. COWS
RANK LOW
IN MILK TESTS
\ ustralian cows rank tenth in the
world on average milk yield, ac-
cording to the Commonwealth Statistics
Bureau.
Although it was a record, the Austra-
lian average milk yield last year was a
mere 454 gallons per cow. (Victoria, the
top dairying State, averaged 581 gallons
a cow).
This compares unfavorably with the
top nine countries: Holland 903 gallons,
Denmark 793, West Germany 721, the
United States 700, Britain 675, New Zea-
land 579, Canada 577, Italy 545 and
France 511.
The Australian dairy industry replies
that yield per cow figures don’t mean a
thing—that they must be viewed in the
light of climate, economics and manage-
ment. This is undoubtedly true —at least
to a point.
Obviously a small herd, maintained on
an intensive system and fed large quan-
tities of expensive concentrates, will pro-
duce more milk than a larger herd al-
lowed to graze its own food. But which
herd will produce the cheaper milk?
The industry, in justifying its yield
figures, does, however, give the appear-
ance of complacency. But there is little
justification for this. The figures of cows
participating in the standard herd test
are a strong indication that milk yields
could be further improved in Australia.
In Victoria, for example, the average
yield of all cows last year was 581 gal-
lons. For the shorter period of the 300-
day standard herd test the purebred
animals competing yielded 674 gallons,
while one breed—Friesians —averaged
949 gallons.
Individual animals have yielded more
than 2,600 gallons during a standard test
in Australia, but the average is dragged
down by countless thousands of poor
yielders and by districts—such as some in
Queensland —where cows are milked for
only part of the year.


ST. PETER S COLLEGE
ST. PETERS, ADELAIDE
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Assistant Master required for the Preparatory
School from February, 1963, to, teach all
primary subjects to a Grade 5 or Grade 6
form and assist with other activities.
Salary according to qualifications and
experience. The salary scale is similar to that
of the South Australian Education Department.
Further particulars are available from the
Headmaster, St. Peter's College, St. Peters,
South Australia, to whom applications should
also be made.
Applications should include a recent photo-
graph and a full statement of qualifications,
experience and personal data.
Divorce Notices
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT, 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: FREDERICK POWELL BARTLETT late
of Greenacre.—TAKE NOTICE that PAULINE
BARTLETT has hied a petition No. 2325 of
1962 fox - divorce on the grounds of desertion
and sepai’ation. If you wish to defend you
may file an answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supi'eme Court, Macquarie Street, Sydney, by
the 9th November, 1962, and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from J. C.
Paynter, Solicitor, of 107 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney.—C. A. R. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
TO: MR. ALLAN FREDERICK McINTYRE.—•
TAKE NOTICE that EVELYN MARINA Mc-
INTYRE has filed a Petition for divorce No.
2776/1962 on the ground of desei’tion. If you
wish to defend you may enter an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court,
Macquarie Sti'eet, Sydney, on or before the
12th November, 1962, and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from R. S.
Woodgate, Solicitors, 27 Watt Street, New-
castle, or fx’om his city agents Pigot Stinson
<fc Co., 33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar in Divorce.
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT, 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: JOHN WILLIAMS late of Leeton.
TAKE NOTICE that NORMA WILLIAMS has
filed a petition No. 1668 of 1962 for divorce
on the grounds of desertion, cruelty and
drunkenness. If you wish to defend you may
file an answer in the Divorce Registry, Sup-
reme Court, Macquarie Street, Sydney, by the
9th November, 1962, and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from J. C. Paynter,
Solicitor, of 107 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: WILLIAM ALEXANDER HODGEN late
of Sydney. TAKE NOTICE that DIANA
MARGUERITA HODGEN has filed a Petition
for Divorce (No. 997 of 1962) on the ground of
desertion. If you wish to defend you may
enter an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, by the 16th day of November,
1962, and obtain a copy of the petition with-
out charge from Philip N. Roach, Solicitor, 160
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
TO: KENNETH JAMES McLEAN.—TAKE
NOTICE that JEMIMA McLEAN has filed a
Petition for divorce No. 1944 of 1962 on the
ground of desertion. If you wish to defend,
you may enter an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, by 2nd November, 1962,
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from Messrs. K. Brudenell-Woods &
Co., Solicitors, of 6a Penfold Place, Sydney.
If you do not wish to file an answer but wish
to "receive a copy of each document filed in
the proceedings, you should file a notice of
address for service on or before such date. —
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT, 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: THOMAS GEORGE WILLIAMS late of
Enfield and TO: DIANE LAWSON late of
Chatswood.—TAKE NOTICE that MICHELE
ANTOINETTE WILLIAMS has filed a petition
No. 2364 of 1962 for divorce on the ground
of adultery of Thomas George Williams with
Diane Lawson. If you wish to defend you may
file an answer in the Divorce Registry. Sup-
reme Court, Macquarie Street. Sydney, by the
9th November, 1962, and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from J. C. Paynter,
Solicitor, of 107 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT, 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: STEPHEN EDWARD BROWN late of
Temora.—TAKE NOTICE that LEILA MARY
BROWN has filed a petition No. 2198 of 1962
for divorce on the grounds of desertion,
drunkenness and failure to pay maintenance.
If you wish to defend you may file an answer
in the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, by the 16th November,
1962, and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from J. C. Paynter, Solicitor, of
107 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO; JUNE BOWDEN, late of 110 Lackey Street,
Merrylands and Kevin Frederick Noble, late
of Tizzana Street, Ebenezer. —TAKE NOTICE
that KEITH GORDON BOWDEN has filed a
petition No. 2100 of 1962 praying for divorce
from June Bowden on the ground of her
adultery with Kevin Federick Noble. If you
or either of you wish to defend you must
file an answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney on or
before 2nd November, 1962. Copies of the
petition, notice of petition and notice of
proceedings may be obtained without charge
from Mclntosh, Adrian & Fellows, Solicitors
of 27 Hunter Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: EPSIE DOYLE POWERS, late of 69 Payten
Avenue, Punchbowl.—TAKE NOTICE that
PHYLLIS RUTH POWERS has filed a petition
for divorce No. 2149 of 1962 on the ground
of desertion. If you wish to defend you must
file an answer in the Divorce Registry, Sup-
reme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, by 16th November, 1962. You may
obtain copies of the petition and notice of
petition without charge from Mclntosh,
Adrian & Fellows, Solicitors, of 27 Hunter
Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
TRANSFORMED BY WATER
CONSERVATION
By MARIEL LEE
Tn 1952, Mr W. G. Keighley took
over, in the iron-bark ridgj country
near Ternora (NSW), a 2970-acre pro-
perty, then in such poor condition that
it would barely feed one dry sheep to
the acre. By 1961 he had so improved
the pastures there that he was able to
run two sheep to the acre, and by his
wise use of the land had, for two suc-
cessive years, deservedly w n his Shire's
competition for pasture improvement
and soil conservation practice.
The chief factor in his success was his
water conservation scheme. By increas-
ing the farm’s water storage capacity
from the 6500 cubic yards in 1952 to
162,000 cubic yards, he was able to
spray irrigate 70 acres, with prospects
of extending the area irrigated. He also
improved the soil fertility by a seven-
year rotation of wheat, barley and pas-
ture.
His first step, on the advice of the
NSW Soil Conservation Service, had
been to contour-bank 350 acres, fill in
270 chains of erosion gullies, the aver-
age depth of which was three feet, and
build 255 chains of waterways. Along
these last, following the natural drain-
age lines, he put down 33 dams so sited
that the overflow of those on the higher
levels filled others lower down.
His biggest dam, into the banks of
which went 23,500 cubic yards of ex-
cavated earth, is 11 acres in extent and
holds over 22 million gallons of water.
Fed by a diversion channel from a much
smaller dam receiving the run-off from
1500 acres, this main dam supplies all
water used for irrigation.
Every second year Mr Keighley has
200 lbs. of superphosphate per acre
aerially spread on the property, 400
acres of which are cropped yearly. The
soil has so benefited that the seven-
year rotation has now been extended to
ten—wheat and barley twice in succes-
sion, then six years pasture.
At the beginning of November,
1960, Mr Keighley cut over 60 tons of
hay from one 44-acre paddock, in which
he then grazed 225 merino weaners for
a fortnight. he alternately
spelled and grazed this paddock for
three or four weeks at a time with 528
sheep; yet in the last week of March,
1961, that paddock was still carrying
41 mixed cattle and 36 rams, though
the rams had access to ten acres of
lucerne as well.
By similar wise management, particu-
larly in the use of irrigation, the whole
property was at that time carrying 2200
breeding ewes, 400 dry ewes for replace-
ment stock, 180 merino wither w'ean-
ers, 250 crossbred lambs, and 150 mixed
beef cattle; yet even then it was not
stocked to full capacity.
Mr Keighley’s conservation of w .ter
and stock has thus transformed a once
poor property into an increasingly pro-
ductive and valuable one.


fgsd
SPRING IS HERE AND XMAS IS A LGT CLOSER
THAN YOU THINK. SOON YOU'LL HAVE TO THINK
ABOUT PRESENTS FOR THE FAMILY, FOR
RELATIVES, FOR FRIENDS BOTH HERE AND
MAYBE, OVERSEAS. WHY NOT A
subscription to "The Bulletin"
AUSTRALIA'S OLDEST (ESTABLISHED 1880)"
AND BIGGEST MAGAZINE OF NEWS AND
COMMENT? YOU CAN ORDER IT FROM YOUR
NEWSAGENT OR BY FILLING IN
THE FORM AT RIGHT
a
ism
Subscription ueparuucm,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
" please arrange for my B^LL E TIN t 0
be delivered to me each week by
my newsagent
by DIRECT subscription
Please tick (\/) whichever method
t delivery you prefen .
I For those desiring direct
t SC pieasefind enclosed my cheque/money
ottefor months subset,p.ton to
the bulletin. ai 1 Vear _
I RATES (Australia and Ne G post free British
dominions 2 6d. Other countries -
11/fuBSCRIFriONB Remote Box^s
Wellington TXZ. lT™.* (N .z. currency).
L CUrr FtoL ail to
PeoftJk aAe, talking mtfu, and m</ue advut' the BuMdZn/
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 712
ACROSS
I—Mount1 —Mount some baby receptacle with a breed of
wheat. (9)
s—Graduate misbehaviour and bowl. (5)
8 and 23—How are the professional batsmen entirely
committed if committed at all? (2, 3,1, 5, 2, 3,1,
5)
10— A divine tot. (3)
11— Part of speech which makes the Earth Goddess
manage a disreputable resort. (9)
12— Ruthlessly extract from 1,000 and 100 during last
month. (5)
14 —Sway of an emperor beard
displayed by a war captive to
the Queen. (8, 5)
17— Very brilliant gin still I can’t
change. (13)
18— Dress circle identity of the
movies. (5)
20 —Familiar phrase on the inter-
com when you’re batting;
this is what I’d bowl. (4, 2,3)
22 Hamlet’s mother to set seed.
(3)
23 See 8-across. (2, 3,1, 5)
25 Flora includes this trade
union impudence. (5)
26 Validity established by this
limb with a Moslem’s Queen.
(9)
DOWN
1— When card players are fed up
with each other’s shortcom-
ings in Venice. (6, 2,5)
2 North-East referee is upset
and it is doubled up like an
Egyptian queen. (9)
3 How’s the race before the
start? (5)
4 North twice halved the pre-
sent occasion. (5)
5 Botany describes one such
tree. (3)
6 Algy’s claw injured this ras-
cal. (9)
7 Penniless sign of assent upset
Bradman! (3)
9—Protection for a warhorse
adjusted to peril. (7)
12— Chartist responsible for a
pianissimo in fog. (7)
13— Doe leaving tornadoes below
is ripped to pieces. (4, 7)
15—Irishman I love in the court.
(5)
16—Unprofessional with a com
panion to a Chaldean city
(7)
19— Spur needing lower adjust-
ment. (5)
20— Bran and pollard, for in-
stance, are wanted from
Jolson. (5)
21— The very last of Teddy Bear
is Gallicised like thine. (5)
23 A loop against an upright in-
troduces itself with spirit.
(3)
24 Circuit put up with buddy.
(3)
Solution to Crossword No. 711


YY:
Hl®
81i®g8l®
s ■
-
Ittilllll
i mg
I |f
*%■
The wise Australian
buys Australian
H
<
m
AUSTRALIAN
k MADE A
\
m
m
m
\
mm
mgmmrn


BY APPOINTMENT TO HER MAJESTY
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS JOHN WAL
FOR THE SCOTCH WITH A CHARACTER ALL ITS OWN
ask for
“Johnnie Walker”
THE SCOTCH OF SCOTCH
■
W
m
Now in miniatures, 5 oz.
flasks, 13 oz. in flasks and
square bottles, and the pop-
ular 26 oz. square bottles.
BORN 1820 —STILL GOING STRONG
