

The
Bulletin
Registered in Australia for trans•
mission by post as a newspaper .
March 24, 1962
• MR McEWEN GOES TO WASHINGTON
• THE KEY TO TV SUCCESS
• HOW COURTAULDS BEAT 1.C.1.
BIG TOM DOUGHERTY
Australia’s Union Giant


Feiffer
MR tMoir-
i mu
a eow m
m i me
TO TALK To
yoj. '
mrs this "Me motf
BUSINESS’, HOWARD ?IM
Jfcßßyf I
AtWAys BKw jeeeT^
WE& FRIENDS HERE.
i mm u<e
BEID6 HOUR FRI6UQ
m Ernoir ear
[ME m j w
MJP FOR FIVE
MOP I
H/W 60X-
W A
A RAlse ? . HAS A
RAf Vt WOP
OfOOR Ml
FRiem iPoei<
TC66WR OPt
AUMMS
m W& to ASIC
FOR A
RAISt.
wo
M6Ak)
Vie
eor it
MW
\
MU. L6T$ memo Ate
Tue mrez, m mea moo
vcm LOORR FOR MS
IOOU) TRAfJ Fl% WARF, h6O
°!OU mm WgRHi
A Rk\6E? or 10 IUIK
Afj allowance -
TOUCH M 010 HMJ
1 FOR AA
much AA
m 6009
FOR.
lit Mms
ujomv
Mm HARP
FOE W
mi mo\X'
MH <eeo. A LOT OF
THAT MEW HaP
AR£ Wi FIIMM INfLU-
-SNCIN6 ‘iOUJOtiteP?
TH£y PPMT PAR?
, a(M6 FRiefJPS. T£ THeM
IK MOUSY, yiONFY
honsy r
THAT 4 WHAT I MtAU,
hr. exploit. I'm me
oNuy oioe He Re n
RVC MFARS WHO
BA4MT 60TT5U A'
/
ttm.mv. Bor
10H6U A FRieND ASKS
ne for moff Horn-
-1 POIOT KMOW'I
HAVF to *SR MM5aF'
15 tWAT A
FKIFUP ?
/
MVS
HURT
you,
mewT
I AC7MIT
it, eeep.
'CUT MSAURY
JORRY! r SHOULDNT
HAVC HURT YOU
THI£ WAY I CUT
MV SALARY f
ONLM
decme
MOU
I\)MT
<669.
TFR ?
\
Fo R£V£R, KjegjQ
COUi 9 I affprp
LOSE SUCH
a fricmp r


victor borge page 15
“A Matter of Taste”
“Big Tom” Dougherty ... .. 11
Nehru Against Time .. .. 16
Life in Algiers .. .. 16
Will Liberals Split? .. .. 17
“Dear Pioneer” .. .. 19
In Black and White 20
Quebec, a Winter Journey .. 21
Until You Go Pink in the Face .. 24
The Critics .. .. 36
How to Succeed in Television .. 39
NATIONAL NOTEBOOK 4
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
AROUND MELBOURNE 21
AROUND SYDNEY 23
LETTERS 26
WILD CAT 27
SPECULATOR’S DIARY 34
REVIEWS 36
RED PAGE 39
THh BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street,.Sydney;
Box 2521; Phone: 27 5771.
Vol. 83
No. 4284
PLAIN ENGLISH
US. FINGER ON THE TRIGGER
X HE current talks in the US between Holland and Indonesia over West
New Guinea have a particular significance for Australia and not, per-
haps, a great deal of comfort. It is a case of there but for the grace of God
. . . Holland has been forced into the talks by the refusal of the US, Britain
and particularly Australia to be involved in a show-down with Indonesia
and the rest of Asia over West New Guinea. A gun has now been levelled
at the obstinate Dutch and the finger on the trigger is that of the US.
The sweep of history in the last io years has been too strong to with-
stand and Sir Garfield Barwick made the best of a bad case in the House
when he flatly announced that Australia could not effectively intervene in
an armed dispute with Indonesia nor successfully appeal to the UN.
Few Australians realise the true nature of the Dutch crisis of conscience
over West New Guinea or that their struggle there is the tail end of their
350 years of involvement with the East Indies. The Dutch are undoubtedly
fed up with West New Guinea. It has cost them blood, sweat, money and
friends. Scarcely a family exists in Holland which has not had some con-
nection with the islands.
Thousands of families have had several generations serve in the
archipelago. The end is bitterness and recrimination. This is not the place
to argue Dutch colonialism but merely to say that the Dutch-Indonesian
love-hate relationship is perhaps unique. The very word Indonesia induces
in the Dutch feelings of guilt and anger. There has been so much mis-
understanding, so much resentment, so many pangs on both sides. It is
undoubtedly this relationship which motivated the Dutch into trying to
create a model of colonial disengagement in West New Guinea just as it
was this relationship that motivated Indonesians into preventing it. Holland
wanted to set a long and sometimes bitter record straight. Indonesia
could not allow it.
The defeat of the tough and friendless Dutch is a startling object lesson
for this country.
BIGGER AND BETTER
NEXT week’s issue of The Bulletin will contain a lively, new, expanded
finance section of 20 pages incorporating “The Australian Financial
Times”—the last individual issue of which will appear on Monday, March
26. The new Bulletin finance section will contain the best features of
“The Financial Times,” the regular Wild Cat features and several entirely
new finance features including profiles of leading business, agricultural and
industry personalities. In addition, once a month, there will be an
additional eight pages of finance devoted to industry surveys written by
some of Australia’s leading experts—making a 28-page section in all.
As from March 31, The Bulletin will comprise 64 pages including
a color cover—of which 40 pages will be general. It will sell at the old
price of 1/-. As well as This Australia, Out And About, Forum, Plain
English and other regular features next week’s Bulletin will begin four
new features:
• “As I See It” by Alan Reid—a weekly political commentary.
• London Newsletter from John Douglas Pringle—a monthly feature.
• Science At Work—a weekly round-up of science in industry.
• “That Certain Book”—a new Red Page feature. First contributor
is Ross Campbell.


National
Notebook
Meals on the Never-Never
A friend of ours in Adelaide for the
Festival reports that he is impressed
with the locals’ ability to put away a
good meal, but less impressed with their
ability to pay for it. A la carte dining, he
was told has only become customary in
recent years. For those who have spent
their lives in the splendid Seclusion of SA
society the change has brought problems.
An Adelaide mditre d’hotel told the
visitor : “The a la carte menu wasn’t
planned so that people would have six
or seven courses, but South Australians
sit down and work through a seafood
cocktail, then soup, fish, poultry etc.”
However, the same maitre d’hotel re-
ports that when it comes to paying
Adelaide’s upper crust has a different
sense of values from the eastern States.
Before the advent of a la carte, diners
could usually eat as much as they
wanted for a fixed sum. Now restaurant
prices, although they are below those
charged in other States, come as a
shock. The visitor was told that last
Christmas a party of 27 society women
refused to pay £42 for a meal at a leading
restaurant. The meal, they claimed, was
not up to standard.
The managing director of the restau-
rant said that when the women had com-
plained about the chicken served, he
offered them steak. Everybody in the
party had eaten the chicken and 11 others
had steak as well. He claimed that when
the bill was presented the women said
they would not pay more than £lO. The
managing director said he then sent
for the police, who said they would
charge the women. However, to avoid
publicity, the managing director paid
the bill himself.
The Christmas before, he says, he put
in £125 for people who refused to pay
for their meals. He hates Christmas.
Annie Get Your Gun
JV/£ el bourne has had a stir among bar-
maids. Anne Morris, an ex-Bondi
girl from Sydney, a barmaid at the Federal
Hotel in Collins Street, refused to join the
Liquor Trades Union. A small, auburn-
haired young lady, sft 3in in her socks,
she was defiant. She said the union had
been after her to join for seven months.
However she refused because she felt it
was communist-controlled. She said : “I
have no intention of joining the union-
no matter what. I’d rather give the money
to charity.” Mr J. Coull, the union secre-
tary, said her claims were ridiculous and
he denied that the union was communist-
controlled. Miss Morris had an ultimatum
to join the union within seven days.
Under the terms of the Federal award
barmaids must join the union and take
out a permit card within 14 days of taking
a job. Miss Morris resigned her job and
announced that she was leaving Mel-
bourne to work at the Wrest Point Hotel
in Hobart, another hotel in the Federal
Hotels chain. The Federal secretary of
the union said Miss Morris would be con-
tacted just the same in Hobart and he
pointed out that she would earn less
money there. Barmaids do not get equal
pay in Tasmania so her pay cheque
would be down £3/6/- a week.
But at the week’s end Miss Morris sud-
denly announced that she had cancelled
her air ticket to Hobart. Federal Hotels,
she said, had withdrawn their offer for a
job at Wrest Point. The Promotions
Manager of Federal Hotels, I r J. W.
Spooner, on the other hand, said she had
never been offered a job. Whatever the
cause, rather than have any dialings with
the union, Miss Morris said she would
now leave the hotel industry altogether.
Which for bystanders was dis-
appointing. Clearly Tasmania was to
miss out on quite the most fascinating
issue since the Hursey case. Meanwhile
the Australian Hotels Association carried
on undisturbed and brought out a new
10-ounce glass which it called “The Wash-
ington.” Perhaps it was symbolic of
Miss Morris's ill-fated declaration of in-
dependence.
Summer of the Wind-up Dolls
A short time ago a New York colum-
nist suggested that it might be
possible to create a new line in toys for
adults. These were the wind-up dolls
... A Jackie Kennedy doll. (You wind
it up and it keeps changing its clothes)
... A Khrushchev doll. (You wind it
up and it keeps saying No) ... An Eisen-
hower doll. (You wind it up and it oes
nothing.) And so on.
The idea could easily be adapted here.
What about
• A Sir Charles Moses doll. You wind
it up and it walks 50 miles.
• A Harry Jensen doll. You wind
it up and it leaves the country.
• A Jimmy Carruthers doll. You
wind it up and it keeps making come-
backs.
• A Tommy Hanlon Jnr. doll. You
wind it up and it bursts into tears.
• A Joe-the-Gadget Man doll. You
wind it up and then realise you wound
it too far.
® A Patrick White doll. You wind
it up and then can’t work out how you
did it.
• A Dolly Dyer doll. You wi ‘ it
up and the eyes keep watching you,
wherever you go.
• A Reg Ansett doll. You wind it
up, and it won’t let you play with its
planes?
The list is endless. Why not join in?
Make your own dolls at home.
THE POMMIE
I know it’s a new country, but to travel
in a cab,
To sit beside the driver and to hear the
creature blab
About that fellow Bradman, or the way
some horse has run —-
It isn’t done, old boy, it isn’t done.
To motor to the seaside upon a summer’s
day,
To mingle with the masses and to join
them in their play,
And have them sit beside you — why,
you could meet anyone! —
It isn’t done, old boy, it isn’t done.
To drive out to a country spot (why
must they call it “bush”?),
To boil a kettle, cook some meat amidst
a tourist crush
Around a filthy fireplace, and to call the
whole thing fun —
It isn’t done, old boy, it isn’t done.
To argue with an Englishman and strike
a stubborn pose,
To call him “Pommie Bastard” and to
biff him on the nose,
And then to stand and laugh at him and
act as if you’ve won —
It isn't done, old boy, it isn’t done.
MICHAEL SEARLE


Beer and Skittles
\l7hen Saint Mary’s massacred the
Buffaloes the other week in Darwin
thereby almost destroying the Buffs’
hope of winning the Australian Rules
premiership for the first time in years
the Buffs’ fans apparently felt like de-
manding a Royal Commission. One of
the stars was accused of swilling beer
in the Workers’ Club shortly before the
game began and several other team
members were accused of roistering until
3 a.m. on the morning of the game.
“After all,” one indignant correspondent
wrote to the Bulletin, “we give them
free beer on Saturday night after the
match.” So the following weekend be-
fore the all-important semi-final against
Wanderers, the Buffs’ captain-coach,
Gerry Brendish, took steps to keep his
men “off the grog” on the Friday night.
He took the 22 players (team plus re-
serves) to a quiet little function of tea
and sandwiches followed by a discussion
of football tactics. At the crucial hour of
eleven, when the pubs had shut, he sent
them home. Next day they withstood a
withering last quarter to beat the Wan-
derers by six points and went into the
preliminary final. Which should go to
prove that fitness pays. But Darwin
cynics maintain that after being sent
home on Friday night the players trooped
in a body to the Don Hotel which has
a licence to sell beer until midnight,
and from there on to a card game.
All-Night Stand
/~\ne of our more zealous Men in Mel-
bourne thought that it would be- of
interest to our readers if he sat in
(actually he had to stand in) on the
activities of a Melbourne counterpart of
the British Campaign for Nuclear Dis-
armament which has been so much in
the news lately. (Or it was—but Our Man
is a bit slow). This Melbourne group is
thoroughly anti-communist and recently
protested against the Russian resumption
of nuclear tests. This time they were pro-
testing against American tests. Our Man
was a bit shaken when he found out it
was an all-night 12-hour affair in front
of the US Consulate-General building
opposite the Chevron Hotel. But Our
Man has stamina and this is what he
reported. “In early stages only six people
present. Later crowd grew to 20. But
sometimes more Press reporters present
than pacifists. Twice during night visited
by TV units. When cinemas closed
crowd swelled to 50. By 2 a.m. only
20. At 4.30 all rather weather-beaten.
Suggestion that we seek shelter in Consul-
General’s porch. Police patrol car
pulled in. A sergeant said we couldn’t
as porch is private property. At six a.m.
survivors went home. Later we watched
ourselves on TV. Don’t know what US
Consul-General thought but police
sergeant said to group: ‘You’ve caused
us quite a bit of consternation in the
department.’ ”
Without Comment
Aur Sydney Man this week tried to
pin Victor Borge down on what he
really thought of audiences. Does he
like them? “Every single one of them.
I love them and treasure them. They have
come to see me and I give them the
best that’s in me.” He looked up re-
flectively. “But I can’t tell you how I
loathe those who don’t come.”
"I WISH THEY'D DISCOVER A LINK BETWEEN LUNG CANCER AND FALLOUT"


This Australis
POLITICAL POINTS
A QUICK LOOK
INTO THE CRYSTAL BALL
B. A. SANTA MARIA
Come a long way
By MUGGA
~VTot since the late 1940’s have Labor
and trade union politics been more
interesting. Nor in one sense have they
been more predictable. To see- why, it is
necessary to take a quick look at what
is going on at the present time within
trade union circles.
As is obvious from the few who attend
meetings and the low voting returns in
elections, the vast majority of union
members are apathetic about what goes
on in their unions and in Labor politics
generally. That is how unions are
always controlled by comparatively
small groups or factions who unite or
fight among themselves. Communists,
National Civic Council men, rank-and-
file ALP unionists, Trotskyites, Groupers
—all are continuously jostling for posi-
tion. Sometimes they are inspired by
motives of service to members or by an
ideology, sometimes they are only out
to feather their own particular nests.
In the last few months two important
events have occurred which have not
been seen in their proper perspective:
the election of ALP member Mr C. Fitz-
gibbon as General Secretary of the
Waterside Workers’ Federation (thus
breaking the monopoly of communist
control in that union); and the election
of Labor party member Mr J. McDowell
as the third member of the controlling
Commonwealth Council of the AEU.
(This gave the control of that union to
non-communist members.)
Mr C. Fitzgibbon was elected by a
combination of ALP members (especially
in Melbourne-), National Civic Council
men and members of the Democratic
Labor party. Mr McDowell’s election
was due to work done by rank-and-file
ALP members, almost solely from his
own Bundaberg branch, and by National
Civic Council men. The important de-
duction to draw from both of these elec-
tions is that neither of these men are in
any way owned, operated or controlled
by the National Civic Council nor, in
fact, by members of the communist
party. Mr Fitzgibbon is now undergoing
a most difficult test. He is under extra-
ordinarily strong pressure to precipitate
strike action around the Australian
waterfront. This would involve all the
maritime unions.
His real test, however, will come in
mid-year during the election of officers
of the Melbourne branch of the federa-
tion. In this election an ALP rank-and-
file ticket will be run against a combined
communist and ALP Central Executive
ticket. Fitzgibbon has promised to back
the “rank-and-file” ticket, but if he does
so he will be open to the accusation of
co-operating with Mr Santamaria’s
National Civic Council members, who
at this stage seem likely to support the
rank-and-filers. This again highlights the
rather startling fact that the NCC is
backing non-communists for union office
over whom it has no effective control be-
yond that of supporting them at election
time. It also highlights how far union
politics have come since the days of the
Labor split: some ALP members,
unofficially, are prepared to co-operate
with Mr Santamaria and his men pro-
viding this does not mean control either
of a union or the ALP from sliding into
his hands.
In a few months the Amalgamated
Engineering Union will hold an election
for the office of Sydney District Secre-
tary, long held by Mr Arthur Searle, a
member of the communist party. It is
likely that the communist party will lose
this election, too, to a member of the
ALP —again the same pattern: ALP
men plus National Civic Council men.
Again with no reward gained by the
NCC except the removal of a communist
from a key union position.
/TUven this changing pattern in depriving
communists from key union posi-
tions, what will be their tactics? This
is relatively easy to see from events hap-
pening at the present time in both Mel-
bourne and Sydney. These events also
show the relevance of Federated Iron-
workers’ Association motions passed this
week : the National Conference con-
demned the misuse of shop committees
by union members, and the council
decided the association would not par-
ticipate in any shop committee action
outside the association’s rules.
There has been a minor wave of
strikes over the last three or four weeks
in both Melbourne and Sydney, and in
nearly all instances they were the result
of “shop committees” or “area com-
mittee” decisions. On March 2, in
Victoria, 400 employees employed at the
Altona plant of Standard Vacuum Refin-
ing Company (Aust.) Pty Ltd walked off
the job. This was not unconnected with
a meeting held one night prior to that
date, in the Central Hotel, Altona, to
form an Altona area committee. Also
on March 2 a lunch-time meeting of
2300 employees at the Ford Motor Com-
pany’s works at Somerton was held to
protest against the company’s refusal to
recognise union shop committees.
The important fact about the Standard
Vacuum strike was that the strike was
organised without the permission of the
unions concerned, the Victorian Trades
Hall Council, or, in fact, the ACTU. As
it happened, the issue was a genuine one,
but was contrary to agreements regard-
ing the conduct of disputes arrived at
between the company and the unions.
Also in Sydney over the last few weeks
strikes have occurred at World Services
Construction Company (involving 270
workers), F. W. Hughes Ltd (150
workers), Sankey and Bensons (40).
There have been others, but on evidence
available the strikes mentioned have
either been organised by shop or area
committees or have resulted in the for-
mation of such committees. The com-
munist “Tribune” of March 14 gave the
game away when in reporting the strike
at F. W. Hughes (textile industry) it
said: “Following that struggle, the 12
unions in the works formed a shop com-
mittee.” Other evidence could be found,
but the same issue of “Tribune,” in its
editorial, states : “Not fraternity but
ferocious class struggle reigns in bourgeois
society.... Miners, waterside workers,
metal workers, wool and basil workers,
bus drivers and conductors are amongst
those who are responding to these attacks
on them by various forms of action,
including pit-top meetings, extended
workshop and special job delegate meet-
ings and short periods of strike action.”
(My emphasis.)
Apart from generally disrupting
industry, the aim of extending area
committees is to embarrass union officials
and the officials of Trades and Labor


Councils and through them the ACTU.
If these committees can continually pre-
sent these bodies with fait accompli
strikes and they clamp down on the area
committees (as they certainly will), this
will be used as propaganda against any
union official who can in any way be
called Right-wing or anti-communist. In
each dispute the area committees will
pass a sanctimonious resolution endors-
ing some aspect of ACTU policy, such
as the 35-hour week. This will give any
strike begun by the area committees an
air of sweet reasonableness and legality.
For the rest of the year we can expect
greater industrial unrest than we have
seen for a few years—along with the
seemingly contradictory fact that com-
munist party members will continue to
lose union jobs.
THE POST OFFICE
"GRAFT, CORRUPTION AND FRAUD"
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
TTDhen Inspector Snowy Hill, who heads
* ’ the Victorian Gaming Branch and
is a keen tote punter himself, issued
his complaint that there is a certain
amount of hanky-panky business going
on, as the late George Wallace used to
put it, in the Elizabeth St and main
Melbourne post office and in many
country post offices on behalf of the SP
bookmakers, the Melbourne Press treated
the complaint with pained surprise —•
as if about 100,000 Victorians didn’t
have some evidence or knowledge of
what has been going on for about 50
years and as if about 900,000 others
didn’t suspect it, considering the revela-
tions quite recently about the wealth and
influence of SP bookmakers.
Judge Martin said very much the same
in his report in 1958 on off-the-course
betting after conducting his celebrated
Royal Commission: Diaries had been
found in bookmakers’ premises giving
the unlisted telephone numbers of de-
partment officers and technicians; tele-
phones were placed in most unusual
positions and as many as 16 in one room
(at a time when one-man businesses
had none) and as soon as the police
raided premises inward cal’* ended.
What Inspector Hill has done has been
to put this judicial language into plain
English in his characteristic, forthright
style, and to give a few more details.
This was that graft, corruption and fraud
riddle the Victorian telephone branch;
that SP trunk line calls were not charged
and that chits recording the cost of bet-
ting calls, many interstate, placed in a
special box at Elizabeth St. were re-
moved; that a tipster had an arrange-
ment by which money orders worth
between £2OOO and £6OOO addressed to
an advertised box were diverted inside
the post office to another address, and
that the Gaming police were not getting
the co-operation of telephone branch
officials down the line.
No adult Australian can be naive
enough to believe that this state of affairs
exists exclusively in Victoria. As long as
40 years ago it was necessary to send
news about horses or commissions
through the Hobart Post Office in code
to attempt to avoid the information being
peddled around the SP bookmakers,
and for decades Sydney tipping services
boasted of their power in the post offices
to their clients, and, more importantly,
frequently proved it.
With that sort of tradition behind it,
it was not surprising that the Postmaster-
General did not know that an inquiry
into Inspector Hill’s complaints was
actually being made. When the com-
plaints were brought to his notice, he
said an inquiry would be made, and then
he had to admit that one already was
in progress. He had not been told.
The same sort of thing happened last
year when he scouted a suggestion that
the then Queensland Director had im-
properly used PMG cars; then he had to
admit that the Director confessed to
doing so and to trying to persuade an
investigation officer to make untrue
statements about it.
When those up the line do not take
the PMG into their confidences, it is
understandable that those down the line
in the post office also keep their own
counsel and the other fellow’s chits.
Nothing arose departmentally from
Judge Martin’s report but as a result of
the current inquiry one PMG clerk has
been suspended, who was convicted in
the Melbourne City Court on March 2
for unlawful possession of trunk line
charge dockets.
One of the most interesting disclosures
now would be how this cc.se escaped
earlier publicity. Melbourne City Courts
are thoroughly reported by experienced
newspaper men, but their vigilance can
be thwarted if cases are heard by arrange-
ment in the afternoons in obscure up-
stairs courts. The disclosures have now
led some Melbourne racing club secre-
taries to claim they have suspected tap-
ping of official calls wiih betting infor-
mation. But how else despite all this
pained surprise could SP merchants be so
prompt and accurate with betting infor-
mation for their still numerous clients?
IN THE GROOVE
THE MOTOR TYRE
RACKET
FROM AN ADELAIDE CORRESPONDENT
After Sir Thomas Playford, the SA
Premier, ordered a police investiga-
tion into the activities of “an Adelaide
tyre firm” without naming the firm, a
number of tyre companies seemed to be
on edge. Sir Thomas had said the com-
pany to be investigated had a machine
which cut grooves into the rubber surface
of old motor tyres to make it appear
that tyres had new treads. This is nothing
unusu. 1 in the tyre trade —re-grooving
has been going.on for many years now in
all States —but in this company, accord-
ing to Sir Thomas, old tyres were being
cut down to the safety strip. If this
allegation is true it is an extremely
serious matter and lives are in danger.
(Re-grooving does not lengthen the 11 "e of
a tyre. It merely improves the road grip.
It becomes dangerous when there is only
a very thin layer of rubber left or when
the canvas is nicked by the re-grooving
machine.)
The first reaction to the Premier’s an-
nouncement was unexpected. A semi-
Government instrumentality, the Muni-
cipal Tramways Trust, revealed it was
using re-grooved tyres on its buses. MTT
general manager, Mr J. T. Keynes, was
the first to defend the process. He said
bus tv res carried enough tread to be re-
grooved with complete safety. He added
that an expert groover made sure the
grooving machine did not go near the
safety strip of tyr-ts.
Although the tyre trade was privately
indignant at the Premier’s announcement,
its public reaction was more subtle. The
day after the announcement the Service
Tyre Company, Ltd, advertised under
the headings: “Driving costs cut. Recap
or retread now.” The advertisement
said that the company “had the modern
plant and equipment to guarantee a per-
fect job.” Two days after the announce-
ment M. S. McLeod, Ltd, “largest inde-
pendent tyre dealer in the Southern
Hemisphere,” inserted a large ad. in the
morning Press to boost the Goodrich
“silvertown” tyre. This tyre was plugged
as giving “extra rubber where the wear
is.” Advertisements also came thick and
fast from Olympic, Dunlop and Hardie,
each plugging the merits of their tyres.
Tyre companies in SA are probably
more concerned about another recent in-
timation of the Premier than his state-
ment on grooved tyres. Sir Thomas has
hinted that SA may be getting an over-
seas tyre company to establish itself in
SA. Whatever happens in the future,
local tyre groups are certain to continue
treading carefully.


NUDISM
MOMENT OF TRUTH
AT DECEPTION BAY
FROM J. R. FORBES IN BRISBANE
COMMISSIONER BISCHOF
Ex-Father of the year
An Sunday, Manh 11, the citizens
of Brisbane clutched their “Sunday
Mail” in wild surprise. For it told a
frightful tale of nudist goings-on at
Deception Bay, from which the police
had saved us all, in the very nick of
time.
Deception Bay is not obviously a
sylvan paradise. It is, in fact, a swampy,
scrubby, bayside spot on the northern
hillbilly fringes of Brisbane, about 26
miles from town. No tourist mecca in
the past, it has lost its one great chance
of becoming one in the near future.
For just as its nudist colony was about
to become a celebrated thing, burly
Mr Bischof arrived there, a-trampling
the wallum scrub, putting the nudists
to flight forever. Now thrust back upon
the ways of middle-class respectability,
they must spend their weekends, swathed
in bikinis, on Surfers' Paradise sands.
Mr Bischof, of course, is Queens-
land’s Police Commissioner, former
Father of the Year (albeit sans enfants).
For the past couple of years, Brisbane’s
two Melbourne-propelled papers have
constantly projected him as a panoramic
Father Image, and as the hero of Cau-
tionary Tales for Bad Little Queens-
landers. Gradually, living in Brisbane
has come to be very like living in one
great happy Police Boys’ Club. Familiar
is the prospect of Mr Bischof lecturing
us on delinquency, drunken driving,
naughty University students, and so on.
The headlines reflect his moods: “Mr
Bischof is appalled,” “. . . is concerned,”
“. . . sponsors,” “. . . feels he can
approve”—these things come to us now,
as a set of symbolic weather forecasts.
It should be recorded that the Com-
missioner is sometimes unconventional
in his approach. On these occasions, a
reporter is always at hand to record every
quip. For example in January 1961,
two youths were tried for indecent
assault upon a 15-year-old girl at Sand-
gate, convicted by the Supreme Court,
and released subject to good behavior
bonds. A couple of days after the
Supreme Court finished with them, they
came before Commissioner Bischof at
Headquarters. (“Chief Holds Court!”
cried the “Courier Mail.”) The Com-
missioner gave them a little homily about
the same offence, and then gave each
of them a snowy non-iron shirt. It is in
memory of this extraordinary day that
young constables have dubbed the brand-
new police headquarters “Drip-Dry
House.”
Against this background, Mr Bischof
launched his war upon the Deception
Bay nudists. Apparently a group of them
had been meeting there, quietly and ob-
scurely, for quite some time. They had
a rough clubhouse in the scrub, rather
coyly named “The Sunspot.” No one
suggests that they ever came into pub-
lic view. Local residents swear that they
were harmless to humans, and did not
worry cattle. Nevertheless, the Commis-
sioner was “. . . concerned that children
(of the nudists) in these surroundings
were being exposed to moral danger.”
Accordingly, he peremptorily summoned
their leaders to a conference at police
headquarters, and immediately there-
after, all Sunspot activity ceased.
It showed every sign of being a popular
victory, for Brisbane is a pure city. But
soon the inevitable cry was heard:
University lecturer and anti-Catholic
polemicist Tom (“Catholic Action”)
Truman published a letter in the
“Courier,” thundering that police-
men are appointed as legal, not
moral policemen, and that if the Com-
missioner didn’t remain on his beat, we
had all better have a jealous eye to our
civil liberties. Mr Truman quickly found
support. Another correspondent wrote :
“Mr Bischof is not qualified to make
such arbitrary decisions ... on moral
principles.” Then, recalling that he was
in Queensland, the same writer cautiously
added : “If he has such powers, they
should be taken from him." But a third
letter came from one of “the Chiefs”
devotees : “The question is one of
morals, and the right people to con-
sult should be those who are trained in
such things as morals, ethics, and the
teaching of the gospel . . . (to) our chil-
dren.”
However some drops of critical acid
have at last been poured on the Father-
Commissioner legend. With some luck,
we may soon have a police force less
publicised, more courteous, and con-
cerned not with faith and morals, but
simply with the custody of the law. One
of these days we may even have a lawyer
as State Attorney-General (the last
Labor incumbent was an ex-tram-guard)
to teach the Force the vital difference
between police duties and moral
paternalism.
PROSPECTORS
GRUBSTAKING THE FOSSICKERS
FROM KEITH WILLEY IN DARWIN
TpOR months past, Northern Territory
prospectors and politicans have been
hammering home that unless drastic steps
are taken to help the Northern Territory
mining industry expand this year, the
high level of production reached in the
past three years —because of the impetus
from uranium contracts —will decline,
and with it will go the best hope for a
short-term populate i builder in this
empty area.
The Chamber of Mines also stressed
the importance of that vanishing figure,
the small-time prospector, or gouger. The
Member for Barkly, Len Purkiss, pointed
out last year that every major find on
the Tennant Creek field has been made
by a gouger, despite the huge sums which
major companies spend annually on
exploration. He urged a system of
“grubstaking” prospectors until they
came good financially.
Territory miners have had some dis-
appointments over the past few years.
Despite the old-timers’ confidence that
“there are more minerals still in the
ground in the Tennant Creek field than
have ever been taken out of it,” no new
major discoveries have been reported and
the official life of the field is put at a
decade. Investigations by a huge Ameri-
can corporation of bauxite deposits on
Croker Island came to nothing. There
is no sign of a start yet on development
of other known bauxite fields at Gove, in
Arnhem Land. Around Mt Wells a big
tin field lies idle, waiting for the Govern-
ment to complete a crushing battery.


This is still not ready and miners fear
that by the time it is the high prices for
tin may be just a memory. The Govern-
ment’s decision to go ahead with another
big uranium opencut near Rum Jungle
was a shot in the arm, but now uranium
is in eclipse. Japanese interests have
looked at the “hill of iron” which Ken
Waters and Lou Harmanis found near
Burrundie, but no decision on working
it has yet been announced.
The main hope now is that United
Uranium has launched an intensive
prospecting campaign throughout the
Territory and is currently interested in
reports of a new gold strike at the
“ghost town” of Arltunga, out from
Alice Springs.
But for all this the breed of prospectors
is dying. Men like Jack White, who
stumbled on the “glamor” Rum Jungle
uranium field while chasing a wallaby,
and Jack Noble, who found Noble's
Nob gold mine at Tennant Creek and
gave it to a friend who was down on his
luck, don’t seem to come along any more.
Fossicking is a lonely, arduous trade.
Maybe times are too easy and young men
are no longer prepared to face the hard-
ships. In any case, costs have rocketed.
The old optimistic days are over. Only
Government assistance to prospectors can
keep them going.
PROBATE
PAY NOW, DIE LATER
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
A “pay now, die later” system may be
established by the Bolte Govern-
ment under its new Probate Duty Bill
introduced to Parliament last week. A
fund will be set up at the State Treasury
into which any adult will be able to pay
sums to be offset against the probate
duty payable on his estate when he dies.
Monies received by the fund will be
invested in Government and semi-Gov-
ernment bonds and the interest will be
credited to the estate in the form of
rebates which will reduce the probate
duty payable. Capital sums paid will
then be applied to pay the reduced duty.
A schedule to the bill sets out the scale
of rebates in lieu of interest. For every
£lO paid into the fund, the estate will be
credited with £6 if death occurs after
more than 20 years. At the other end
of the table, in the case of a contri-
butor who dies within a year, the estate
will receive no rebate. If he survives
for two years, rebate will be given at
the rate of 4s. for each £lO. The credit
of £l6 for each £lO paid in is the
maximum.
The main effect of the new law will
be to enable people to tidy up their
affairs before death and so save their
surviving family members the night-
mare of meeting huge probate demands.
State probate duties start at 2s. in the
pound for estates up to £9OOO, rising to
25 p.c. on those of £97,000 or more.
On top of this there is the Federal levy
which reaches 37 p.c. on estates of
£500,000.
On a large estate, a demand for pro-
bate duty can have devastating effects,
particularly if the assets are not particu-
larly liquid. Businesses can be disrupted
and even destroyed unless finance can be
obtained to meet probate demands.
Farming and grazing estates are often
very severely hit because of the fairly
low income return in proportion to the
value of the land and assets employed.
(In Victoria, incidentally, 80 p.c. of
estates worth more than £20,000 are left
by farmers and graziers.)
The fund will be a one-way affair—
it will not be possible for a contributor
to withdraw money he has paid in, even
if a reversal in his fortunes shows that
he has over-provided for the probate
man. If, when he dies, there proves to
be more in the fund than is needed to
cover probate, then his estate will
naturally get a refund.
Other clauses in the highly technical
bill are designed to block up existing
loopholes and opportunities for manipu-
lation. As Mr Bolte pointed out, the
£l2 million a year which his Govern-
ment receives from probate duty was
the largest single item of tax revenue in
the State Budget which Parliament still
controlled. His new legislation makes
it easier for the citizen to pay, but also
makes it more certain that the Govern-
ment will get every penny it is entitled to.
The reactions of other State Govern-
ments and of the Federal authorities
could be interesting. When Mr Bolte
explained the bill, the Country Party
leader Sir Herbert Hyland asked “will
not this take something from the Com-
monwealth Special Bonds?”, the
Premier’s answer: “Is there anything
wrong with that?”, can be translated
as “I couldn’t care less.”
Other States will no doubt give close
scrutiny to Mr Bolte’s instalment
system. The Premier has always boasted
that Victoria is the best State in which
to invest. He may soon start pro-
claiming that it is the best one in which
to die.
SEAMEN
A LOOPHOLE?
FROM A CORRESPONDENT
Tt had been a long and lonely wait for
*- Portuguese sailors Jose Costa, Joa-
quim Teixeira and Norberto Augusto
Andrade, and they will have to wait at
least a little longer. The crowds packed
the Darwin Supreme Court gallery to
hear their application for writs of habeas
corpus blocking their threatened deporta-
tion to Portugal, at the end of which
Judge Bridge reserved his decision. It
should be delivered any day now.
With all the talk in recent weeks of
police brutalities, torture, murder, ar.i
of the Ilha Da Sal penal colony, many
predicted the case would develop into
a “trial” of the Salazar dictatorship.
But the men’s counsel, Mr J. Holmes
QC, after a dour clause-by-clause argu-
ment, was unable to have a thick sheaf
of affidavits admitted. In these the
three sailors told of their desertion from
the Portuguese Navy frigate Goncalves
Zarco and something of their life in
Portugal. Others came from people pur-
porting to tell of conditions under the
Salazar regime. Instead of the expected
chamber of horrors the case was fought
on strictly legal lines.
During the two-day court hearing in
Darwin the men spent most of the time
in the gallery, though they understood
not a word of the complicated legal
argument. Costa said that he was “sick
with worry” and all looked white and
strained.
Mr Holmes QC, the Sydney barrister
who was briefed on their behalf, opened
confidently. He said he would take the
“extreme” assumption that the men
would be shot if returned to Portugal.
If this was the case and the Minister
was aware of it the court could say
the Minister had abused his powers in
ordering their deportation. To argue that
he did in fact have such power would
be “going back to the Bastille.”
When Judge Bridge asked whether
he should take notice of affidavits made
by people who had not been in Portugal
or her territories for some years, Mr
Holmes said the Salazar regime had
been as it was now for the past 30
years. “It is a matter of public knowledge
that on the day of Hitler’s suicide flags
flew half-mast in Portugal,” he added.
As the affidavits were examined para-
graph by paragraph Judge Bridge upheld
Mr Henchman’s objections and large
sections were not admitted.
Mr Holmes based his next attack on
what he claimed was a loophole in the
Immigration Act, which came into
force in 1958. He argued the men would
have been prohibited immigrants Vrd
they been on leave and not returned »o
the ship ; but in their case they did return


to the ship before their leave expired, and
later disembarked again. The act does
not cover this sort of case.
Mr justice Bridge said if this argu-
ment was true there was a very serious
gap in the act (Mr Holmes : “I think
there is"), and that if there was this
loophole in the act seamen coming to
Australia could “get around it” by mani-
pulating their leave.
Mr Henchman began his case by say-
ing he took it that the court was not
now concerned with the question of
political asylum in deciding whether
the deportation orders should stand.
He submitted that the Portuguese were,
in fact, covered by the Immigration Act
and the deportation orders were ' alid.
Mr Holmes, he claimed, was wrong in
his argument that the circumstances of
the men's departure from the ship gave
them immunity from the act. It would
lead to an absurd state of affairs if the
legislation applied only to a person
who went AWOL or waited till the
ship sailed without him and not to a
person who left the ship without per-
mission and was not on leave.
As of now there is nothing for the
three Portuguese to do but wait . . . and
hope.
POLITICS
THE GOLDEN GIRL
FROM THE WEST
SENATOR TANGNEY
Born politician
FROM A PERTH CORRESPO DENT
Senator Dorothy Tangney, who was
once described as the little golden
girl from the West, notched up another
score for her sex last week when she
became the first woman to be elected
temporary chairman of committees in
the .Senate chamber she has inhabited
for the last 18 years.
She may have been a little girl in
1943 when she became the first woman
the enter the Upper House, but the in-
tervening years have made her big in
every sense of the word. She now admits
to being physically one of the widest
Senators, not excepting the rotund Civil
Aviation Minister Paltridge, and her work
in the field of social security has earned
her a very big international reputation.
Senator Tangney is not so much a
feminist as a born politician who happens
to be a woman. She was in the Labor
movement at the age of 18. founded
the Labor Club a the University of
WA and stood twice for the blue ribbon
Liberal seat of Nedlands in the State
House before World War 11.
She is the prototype of the self-made
woman. Her father was an engine-driver
who had seven children and she fought
her way up the educational ladder on
scholarships, taking her leaving certifi-
cate at the age of 15. She was just be-
ginning her career as a schoolteacher
when the depression struck, propelling
her into the social service field in which
she has worked ever since. She founded
the Ideal Club in Fremantle, the original
version of the Young Labor League in
WA. and became president of the Federal
Parents' and Citizens' Association. She
has been on the State ALP executive
and a State delegate to the Federal
Council.
When she was elected to the Senate
in 1943 at the same time as Dame Edith
Lyons became the first woman to sit in
the House of Representatives, Labor was
in undisputed power and Senator
Tangney became a leading advocate of
its social service programme. She was
elected to the committee on social security
and became chairman of the committee
set up by the Government to investigate
the nationality status of women who
married aliens during the war. She was
also the only woman to attend the
British Parliamentary Conference in Lon-
don in 1948 and the only woman member
of the council of the National Uni-
versity. She now sits on the National
Development Commission.
As leader of the Western Australian
Labor Senate team since 1946, she now
speaks longer than the star attraction at
political meetings. At one Perth meeting
during the Federal election campaign
she spoke for an hour in support of
Gough Whitlam, who again demonstrated
his consummate political restraint by
not showing any impatience.
RELIGIOUS BRAWLS
ffiJ&ultetCa
MARCH 25, 1882
downright dirty language and
ill-mannered reviling, it is a good
plan to look up some religious con-
troversy. As the disputants never con-
vince one another, and generally end
by bitter abuse, it is natural that men
of common sense, who are not super-
pious, listening to all the foolish out-
pourings, should wonder how much
real religion there is in these clashing
gospellers. The Wagga Wagga papers,
the “Express' and “Advertiser,” have
been indulging in a sort of Kilkenny-
cat combat about prayer, and if they
had been horsey larrikins, their lan-
guage could not have been much less
elegant. On the remarks of Bishop
Moorhouse about praying for rain, the
“Express" wrote a leader bristling with
arguments more remarkable for vigor
of expression than for politeness of
diction. It advises those who waste
water and then pray for rain, to
“shoulder a pick and shovel, and dig
a dam ; half an hour's honest work
would be more effectual than three
hours' loafing on one's knees.”
Archdeacon Pownall objects to the
tone of the article as anti-Christian,
and delivers a sermon, wherein he
prods the “Express” pretty smartly,
and finally, “unkindest cut of all,”
nearly ruins the paper by withdraw-
ing his subscription. What makes him
more mad than anything, though, is
the “Express” associating its opinions
with those of Dr Moorhouse, as much
as to say “he's one of us.” This is too
much, and the Archdeacon goes for
the erring editor, smites him hip and
thigh. It is here that the “Advertiser"
edges in, as the champion of Christi-
anity and ally of the Archdeacon,
Here are some of the expressions by
which the editorial star who illumines
the leading columns of the eminently
respectable “Advertiser,” relieves his
feelings:— “Bullies are always
cowards,” “sneaking conduct,” “a
snivel and a whine,” “a newspaper
that propagates atheism and pro-
fanity,” and “reviles and screeches at
prayer.” Now it's a great deal easier
to fling epithets like these at the editor
of the “Express” than to rebut his
arguments, which are rather hard
pellets. And we cannot help thinking,
when the cause of Christianity is
championed in this sort of language,
that the “Advertiser,” even plus the
Archdeacon, gets the worst of the
combat.


"BIG TOM” DOUGHERTY
Australia's Biggest Union Boss
By ALAN REID
The Australian Workers’ Union is
the BHP of the Australian in-
dustrial world —big, wealthy,
self-sufficient, conservative and
efficient. It produces for its 18C£000-
odd members spread through every State
scores of awards, some among the best
in Australia and some among the best
in the world. It owns choice chunks
of real estate, newspapers, radio sta-
tions, a fleet of cars, fat bank balances,
and printeries. It has probably £5,000,000
in assets, an annual income of over
£500,000, turbulent rulers, a literary tra-
dition unequalled in Australian work-
ing class history, and poor public re-
lations.
Once when I was having one of my
periodical brawls with the AWLi, Mr
Tom Nicholas Pearce Dougherty said
“We ought to buy the ‘Daily Telegraph’
to have the pleasure of firing yc ”
When I retorted that the “Daily Tele-
graph” was beyond his price range, an
AWU accountant who was present said
“Don’t you be too sure of that, brother.”
Having since looked at numerous AWU
balance sheets, I now realise what be
meant.
Mr T. N. P. Dougherty is the man
who sits on top of this vast AWU
conglomeration. Everyone in the Labor
Party and the industrial movement re-
fers to him as “Big Tom.” Officially, he
is the union’s General Secretary, un-
officially, he is the chief among an AWU
hierarchy of tough, able men who run
the union with a ruthless efficiency, con-
siderable devotion, a sense of respon-
sibility most of the time, though not
always, towards the Australian com-
munity, and a considerable pride in
the fact that the AWU was midwife
at the birth of the Australian Labor
Party and continues in both its faults
and its virtues to be as Australian as
bowyangs. The members of this hier-
archy fight among themselves like
Kilkenny cats. But once an outsider
intervenes they coalesce into a defensive
ring. Like their union, the principal
figures among the hierarchy are aggres-
sive and litigious. They love disputation
for disputation’s sake. They shower
writs on their enemies like confetti. I
know. I have been on the receiving end
of a few. Anyone who seeks to rule such
an empire and lieutenants of this calibre
has to be tough. Dougherty is tough,
physically and mentally. He is also a
contradiction. Politically he has been a
wrecker, industrially a builder.
Physically, Dougherty, now 60, is big
without being massive. He gives the im-
pression that v hat meat there is on his
large-boned frame is there for utility,
like the lean muscles of a working
bullock. He dresses these days rather
dudishly, as befits a man who is Aus-
tralia’s highest paid union official on
£4500 a year, in well-cut suits, smart
ties, and, in summer, a stylish lightweight
straw hat with a colorful, dashing band.
But it is rather like draping silk stock-
ings on an ironbark fence. The hard-
ness shows through all the time.
As I see him, he is more than a
character. He is a series of characters.
For the Dougherty of today is not the
Dougherty of yesteryear—the Doughjrty
who when he was feuding with his
fellow rulers of the AWU (and nobody
wanted to be seen drinking with him in
case his was the losing sl-Ie) told a
colleague “Come and have a drink with
me or Til flatten you.” The Dougherty
of today can laugh at the remembrance
of how he turned from paying for the
drinks to find his prospective drinking
mate had disappeared, like a wraith.
The Dougherty of yesteryear would
undoubtedly have “flattened” his re-
luctant drinking mate if he could have
laid his big, work-toughened hands on
him.
Though still showing traces of his old
arrogance and impatience of restraint
qualities which over the years have
brought him into conflict with virtually
everybody who was anybody in the
Labor movement Dougherty these
days seems to realise that there are other
viewpoints in the world besides his
own and to make a conscious effort
to try to understand and tolerate
these non-Dougherty viewpoints.
This more philosophical attitude could
stem from the fact that Dougherty while
preserving his interest in the broad
political picture takes a proprietorial
interest in the workings and well-being
of the Labor party as the leader of a
union that assisted at the party’s birth.
However he still has abandoned his
personal political ambitions.
At one stage he undoubtedly wanted
to be “big shot” in the Labor party,
as the late Clarrie Fallon, his prede-
cessor as AWU czar, had been.
Dougherty’s ambitions were loftier than
those of Fallon who confined himseL to
being “big shot” in the ALP machine.
“Big Tom,” like Fallon, wanted con-
trol of the ALP machine, Federally and
in his home State of NSW. But he also
wanted to be Lord Mayor of Sydney
(an ambition which the late Mr Joe
Cahill, former NSW Premier, is reputed
to have finally thwarted by changing
the system of election for Sydney’s Lord
Mayor). He also wanted to be a mem-
ber of the NSW Upper House so that he
could be the architect of that chamber’s
destruction. He achieved the first half of
that ambition and became a member
of the Legislative Council. But he failed
in the second ha’f when the referendum
for abolition of the Upper House
which he had persuaded the NSW ALP
conference to force a reluctant NSW
State Labor Government to put before
the people was heavily defeated. He
then resigned from the Upper House,
thereby depriving himself of £SOO a year.
COnce then Dougherty has gone very
quietly. He pulls a string here and
there to get a result he wants. But not
often. He seems to have grown tired of
seeking personal political power for
himself, and is concentrating upon build-
ing up his union’s finances, and its
strength as an organisation.
Paradoxically, this seeming withdrawal
could give Dougherty greater influence
within the Labor party than when he


sought power for himself as an indi-
vidual. He has never really won a fight
in the Labor party, though on occasions
he has been on the winning side. His
brawl with Federal ALP Federal Secre-
tary Mr F. E. (“Joe”) Chamberlain is
typical of how he could seldom bring
his offensives to a successful conclusion.
Dougherty has never really liked Cham-
berlain, the dominant figure Federally
in the ALP over recent years. Chamber-
lain is Leftwing, a supporter in Federal
ALP Executive discussions of the policy
of doing nothing about unity tickets
between Communists and ALP members
in trade union ballots, strong for Peace
Conferences and the like. “Big Tom,”
like the AWU itself, is radical in many
ways but is a Rightwinger, fervently anti-
communist and nationalistic. His sus-
picion of Chamberlain showed through
when he publicly accused Chamberlain
virtually of being “a pommy just off
the ship” and asked how Chamberlain,
an Englishman, could expect to inter-
pret Australian aspirations correctly.
Dougherty then was largely operating
as an individual, and his offensive left
Chamberlain unscathed. But now the
AWU has re-affiliated with the ALP in
Queensland and in doing so has
given the Queensland ALP an aura of
non-communist respectability that he.ped
Labor to a landslide win in that
State at the recent Federal elections—
it could be a very different story. Sooner
or later, AWU influence in Queensland
will change the composition of the
AWU delegation to both the ALP
Federal Conference and the ALP
Federal Executive. When that happens
Chamberlain will either have to toe the
Rightwing AWU line, or face real
trouble.
The Dougherty story proper starts
back in the tiny bush town of Bollon
on the edge of the Queensland Channel
country. Dougherty was a member of
a large family of five boys and three
girls. His mother, early widowed, was
an ex-school-teacher turned postmis-
tress to keep the family going. The
young Tom went to a State school at
Goondiwindi, and appears to have been
a reasonably bright scholar. But he left
n, 13 to take his first job, dairying. He
was soon brough into contact with the
problems of the working man of those
days. His boss worked him from 4 am
to 8 p.m. He had to enlist the aid of a
policeman to collect his pay ss. a
week for 13 weeks.
Thereafter the young Dougherty
seems to have lived the life of a no-
madic bush worker. He took contracts
for clearing and treefelling in the near-
jungle country of North Queensland. He
did fencing and stock work. Then he
went to New Guinea for a while and
came back from there with little to
show for his labors but with sufficient
malaria in his bloodstream to give him
days when he shook and shivered in the
huts with the temperature 100° in the
shade. Back in Australia, Dougherty too’.:
on canecutting, physically one of the
toughest jobs in the world. He stood up
to it well and spent ten years at it.
Tt was at this period that Dougheity
appears to have really got interested
in union affairs. He is reputed to have
been a good talker even then, and a
shrewd, hard bargainer, despite his
youth. His mates elected him union
representative. Though he had a long
time to wait and he could not have
known it then, he was starting on the
long road to the top of the indust.'.al
movement. You can still see the marks of
this bush training in him. His voice is
unmistakably Australian. It is strong,
able to carry his message clearly across
the hubbub of a noisy, turbulent meet-
ing. His vocabulary is racy, interlarded
with homely bush sayings and expres-
sions. “Every dog has a flea on its back,’
was the way in which he described the
recent anti-AWU campaign of Mr Clyde
Cameron, Labor MHR for Hindmarsh,
who loathes and fears him. (“Mr
Dougherty terrorised me,” Cameron, an
ex-AWU State secretary, declared in a
recent affidavit in the Commonwealth
Industrial Court).
In 1932, “Big Tc.n,” then 30, got his
foot upon the first rung of the union
ladder. He became an AWU organiser
and put in six years working in that
capacity around Mackay. Then came his
real break. In 1938 he was appointed
Northern Secretary and headquartered in
Townsville.
TCrom here on the Dougherty story is
•*- no longer simple. It gets very com-
plex. In the AWU setup, Queensland is
the all-important State. Numerically, the
AWU is stronger in Queensland than in
the rest of the States put together. There
are six District Secretaries in Queensland.
They function under the Queensland
State Secretary, who is a key man. These
seven men with the General Secretary
(who is headquartered in Sydney) and
the State Secretaries of the other five
States make up the AWU hierarchy.
Dougherty as a Queensland District
Secretary was now a member of the
hierarchy, and, as such, a powerful man
who could use his power and position
as a springboard to even bigger things.
At the time Dougherty moved into the
Northern Secretaryship the late Clarrie
Fallon was the uncrowned king of the
AWU. Astute, able, and seasoned, Fallon
was almost as important within the Labor
movement. He was the grey eminence of
the Queensland Premier, then Forgan
Smith, the man who from the back-
ground and without publicity exerted a
power that Cabinet Ministers were in-
capable of opposing. As Queensland
AWU secretary, he had control of that
State whose vote could march the v-4e
of the AWU in all other States com-
bined. Through the Federal ALP
machine he also had considerable
national influence. He seemed unshake-
able.
Then things started to happen. Ted
Grayndler, an AWU oid-timer who was
then AWU Federal Secretary, became
ill. Fallon took over the job of acting
General Secretary. In 1941, it was decided
that Grayndler would retire for health
reasons and write a history of the AWU.
As I have said, there is a strong literary
tradition in the AWU. Henry Lawson
wrote “Freedom on the Wallaby” for
“The Worker”, the official mouth-piece
of the AWU which ends with the
rebellious lines:
“ We’ll make the tyrants feel the sting,
O' those that they would throttle;
They needn’t say the fault is ours,
If blood should stain the wattle.”
From W. G. Spence, first secretary of
the AWU, who wrote “Australia
Awakening,” significant working class
writers and poets have found an outlet
through AWU publications. There was
nothing unusual in the AWU about a
decision to free Grayndler so that he
could write his histcry
From there on there was trouble. Fal-
lon became General Secretary But he re-
tained his job as Queensland secretary.
Though Fallon wa. immensely powerful,
he was not all-powerful. The hierarchy
did not like this arrangement. After some
delay, the Executive Council —which is
analogous to the Federal Executive in the
ALP —ruled that Fallon had to decide be-
tween the Federal Secretaryship or
Queensland. It insisted upon the old-
time Union and ALP principle of “One
man —one job.”
Fallon seems to have stalled for time.
He asked for six months to make his
arrangement in the event of his moving
from Brisbane to Sydney which was a
condition if he took the General Secre-
taryship.
When Fallon had become full-time
General Secretary, Dougherty, still mov-
ing up, became one of the two Queens-
land delegates to the AWU Executive
Council. He was still District Secretary in
Townsville. The other delegate was an-
other prominent Queensland AWU per-
sonality, Beecher Hay. The six months’
grace running out, Fallon set out to have
the previous decision that he could not
hold two jobs reversed. What actually
happened is hard to say. It was a long
time ago and what happened at that
historic meeting differs with the vary-
ing versions that participants have since
given. But there seems no doubt that
Beecher Hay told everybody involved
that Dougherty was on his side ; that
Dougherty had told him he would vote


“ There's something un-American
about him.”
in favor of Fallon being forced to choose
between his two jobs. Dougherty—like
Hay —doubtlessly wanted the chance of
promotion that would come if Fallon was
compelled to vacate one or othei jobs.
Dut when the vote came Dougherty
voted not with Hay but with the
minority for Fallon. Men who were
present at that meeting have since told
me that Hay's face was a study. It first
registered amazement, then shock, and
then stunned horror as he slowly realised
that he had put his head on the chop-
ping block, and unless he was very lucky,
the axe was going to fall.
If Dougherty’s motive in voting with
the minority for Fallon was to get Fallon’s
support against Hay, his judgment—and
tactics —were vindicated. Hay fought on.
He persuaded the Executive Council to
appoint him General Secretary. But
Fallon was still Queensland Secretary,
and the big block AWU vote was in
Queensland. In the following year,
Dougherty stood against Hay for the job
of General Secretary. Hay won all States
but Queensland and Tasmania over-
whelmingly. In Queensland Dougherty
had 11,159 votes to Hay’s 3054.
Dougherty finally won by 4543.
Hay brought an action against the
AWU and according to an affidavit by
Clyde Cameron in the Industrial Court
recently “The late Justice O’Mara found
that the Queensland branch ballot con-
ducted in the year Mr Dougherty was
first elected as General Secretary was
characterised by corruption and breach
of the rules.” But Hay lost and 1946
saw him battling—unsuccessfully—for
readmission to the union, from which
he had been expelled.
Soon after there was tension between
Dougherty and Fallon over the control
of union assets. Dougherty claimed that
Fallon was trying to reduce the Federal
office to a cipher by moving all power
over the assets to the States. Fallon
believed that Dougherty was trying to get
control of the union assets —including the
huge Queensland ones —vested in the
central office. Dougherty, with Fallon
hostile, had to rely for his Queensland
strength upon a life-time friend, the late
Mr J. (“Joe”) Bukowski, then Southern
District Secretary in Queensland, and the
man who years later was to wreck the
Gair State Labor Government in Queens-
land. “Big Tom’s” other ally was Mr G.
Goding, Queensland Central District
Secretary. While Dougherty had their
support, he was too strong for Fallon to
tackle head on.
To get rid of Bukowski, Fallon con-
tacted Nick McKenna, (now Senate
Labor leader but then Acting Attorney-
General in the Chifley Federal Labor
Government) to get Bukowski appointed
as a Conciliation Commissioner. Fallon
did not like Bukowski’s alliance with
Dougherty, and Bukowski —with Godina’s
support was now moving into position
whereby Fallon no longer had complete
Queensland control. When Dougherty
heard of Fallon’s negotiations with
McKenna, he contacted the Attorney-
General. “Big Tom" is reported to have
told a Council meeting in Coolangatta
that he told McKenna that Fallon was
not authorised to speak on behalf of the
AWU. For some reason, which nobody
could understand at the time, Bukowski
backed Dougherty. It is possible that
Dougherty informed Bukowski that he
was not going to get the job of Com-
monwealth Conciliation Commissioner
anyway—that the late Jack Beasley, then a
top Minister in the Chifley Government,
had put in a report hostile to him.
After this the gloves really came off.
Fallon selected Clyde Cameron, then
AWU State Secretary in South Australia,
and not yet in the Parliament, as the
man with whom he proposed to replace
Dougherty. Cameron twisted Dougherty’s
tail hard when Dougherty's supporters
tried to get a motion for a substantial
pay rise for the Federal Secretary through
the Coolangatta Convention. The seeds of
a feud that was to come into full bloom
more than ten years later were now
firmly planted. But at that same Coolan-
gatta Convention something mysterious
happened. Something 1 have never been
able to understand. Out of the blue
Cameron got to his feet and said: “I have
no intention this year, next year, or at
any time of nominating for the position
of General Secretary and if I ever
nominate against Mr Dougherty I stand
condemned by my own lips.” Was this
humiliating backdown in Cameron’s
memory when years later he told the
Industrial Court that Dougherty had
“terrorised” him?
After that declaration, Fallon was left
without a starter. But he later found
one in Mr R. W. Wilson, then AWU
State Secretary in NSW. Again
Dougherty survived, supported as he was
in Queensland by Bukowski and Goding.
However, it was the end of the road for
Wilson, who was deposed and replaced
by Mr C. T. (“Charlie”) Oliver, who was
brought across from Western Australia
to take over the NSW branch But de-
spite all this he still had time to go
after good awards for his members.
The union caters for a fantastically
wide range of occupations pastoral,
agricultural, dairying, fruitgrowing, sugar,
timber and sawmilling, roadmaking,
water and sewerage, railway construction,
metalliferous mining, paper milling,
chemical manufacturing, whaling, fish
trawling, waterfront laboring and
numerous other callings.
TTe is regarded as one of the best indus-
trial advocates in the business. With-
out the AWU putting out a penny this
shrewd, hard-headed business man turned
McDonnell House (AWU headquarters
in Pitt Street, Sydney) from a ramshackle,
rundown property that in one year only
showed the union a profit of £1 3s. 4d.,
into a modern, big profit-earner for the
AWU with tenants paying £40,828 in
rents. Dougherty knew the value of
research. He started a research branch.
The AWU, true to its pastoral traditions,
regards its shearing awards as its most
important ones. “Big Tom” specialised
in this field. His submissions to the
Courts are in my view some of the best
analyses of the wool industry made in
Australia. Because of his efforts the
Australian shearer is still the highest
paid in the world.
The AWU is one of the staunchest
supporters of arbitration among Aus-
tralian unions. Dougherty and the
hierarchy are realistic. They do not
believe in leading their members out on
strikes to defeats whence comes no
money, only glory. They do not get
involved in political strikes. (The
shearers’ strike in Queensland a few years
ago was the exception to this rule : it
happened because the AWU had jammed
itself politically in the anti-Grouper
brawl and felt under a psychological
compulsion to show itself more militant
that the communists.) Its adherence to
arbitration and its policy of accepting
bad decisions as well as good ones has
paid off handsomely. Some of its awards
those for the Snowy River are an
example have left the so-called
“militant” unions far behind.
Dougherty also at this time branched
out into politics. He was not as success-
ful in this field. If he ever read Dale
Carnegie's “How to win Friends and
influence People,” he showed no discern-
ible sign of its effects. He fought with
successive presidents of the NSW ALP.


He got tangled up in municipal politics—
this was the period when he had ambit-
ions to be Sydney’s Lord Mayor—and
fell out with Jacky Ferguson (now
Chairman of the Milk Board). After
Ferguson had accused him of being “a
disruptionist” and censored him for his
“opportunist and anti-Labor attitude”
Dougherty accused Ferguson and his
“stooges” on the NSW Executive of
having deep-laid plans to establish an
ALP dictatorship in NSW.
/'Anly in one thing did Dougherty really
influence a political outcome in this
period. When Dr Evatt, then Federal
Labor leader, came out with his denunci-
ation of Mr B. A. Santamaria’s influence
upon the ALP—a denunciation which was
to split the Labor party wide open and
render it impotent for years—Dougherty
immediately backed him. I have always
felt that he tipped the scales. If
Dougherty had not immediately made
available to Evatt the full resources of
the AWU and its Commonwealth-wide
organisation, the Industrial Groups,
firmly entrenched in a majority of the
States, might have won. As it is, there
are still things unexplained about
Dougherty’s earlier association with the
Groups. There does seem to have been
some kind of an association. Cameron
has always claimed that at one Federal
ALP Conference Dougherty tried to get
ALP authority for the Groups to operate
on a national instead of a State basis.
Dougherty’s name certainly appeared on
a Grouper ticket in one AWU ballot,
when he had their backing, but
Dougherty's friends claim that this was a
“bodgie” ticket put out by his enemies
to damage him. Bukowski, Dougherty’s
closest ally and a lifetime friend, was
certainly a Grouper, though later he was
to claim that he was in the Industrial
Group organisation in Queensland only
so that he could learn what they were up
to, in order that he could report back
to the ALP on their activities.
But despite the aid Dougherty gave in
the fight against Santamaria, when the
NSW ALP Executive was reformed, the
AWU was practically ignored. Chamber-
lain, then Federal President, was a
Leftwinger. He disliked the Right-wing
AWU and he had the major say. Later
Dougherty complained that the AWU
had to resort to a subterfuge to get two
representatives on the party-strong
Executive. Fred Campbell not Dougherty
became NSW ALP President. “Big Tom’s”
abortive descent upon the NSW Upper
House may be his last public appearance
upon the open political stage. Hereafter
he may be content to play the role that
Fallon played—building up the political
power of his union rather than himself
and ensuring from the background that
his union’s strength is recognised in the
ALP. His influence on the NSW ALP
Executive is probably greater now than
when he actually sat on the Executive
himself. The NSW AWU Secretary,
Charlie Oliver, who has considerable
respect for Dougherty’s capacity and
judgment, is now ALP State President.
The AWU is regaining its strength within
the Labor party in Queensland where its
influence declined after Bukowski, in
his joint role of ALP Queensland Presi-
dent and AWU Queensland Secretary,
wrecked the Gair Labor Government.
It is hard to know what part Dougherty
played in that wrecking. My impression
is that he tried to restrain Bukowski in
his determination to make Gair knuckle
under to AWU domination of his
Government. But Bukowski was a very
stubborn man. I doubt whether even the
powerful Dougherty could pull Bukowski
up when he got the bit between his teeth.
Gair and Bukowski were waging a per-
sonal feud and they were both determined
men. It became a struggle to the death.
All Dougherty could do was stand on
the sidelines and watch them mutually
produce a situation which ended Labor’s
29 years of rule in Queensland and put
the Nicklin Country-Liberal Party Gov-
ernment into power. Dougherty’s most
recent brawl has been with Cameron,
a one-time member of the AWU Execu-
tive and now Labor MHR for SA’s
Hindmarsh. Cameron, in the House of
Representatives on May 14, 1958,
attacked the “Czar” of an un-named
union, criticised its rules as tyrannical,
and denounced its ballots as rigged.
Everyone who knew anything about
Cameron’s association with the AWU—
he had been AWU SA State Secretary for
years —knew that Cameron was talking
about the AWU. But few were impressed.
Everyone also knew that Cameron had
used the AWU to get himself elected to
Parliament, that he had participated
for years in the inner workings of the
union without protest and that he
had used AWU techniques and
machinery in the past to deal with
recalcitrant opponents. His belated re-
pentance —nine years after he had been
elected to Parliament and now escaped
from Dougherty’s “terrorism” was
taken as indicating that he was re-
sentful that the AWU machinery was
not to be available for his future use
(Dougherty was moving to get his AWU
ticket withdrawn). This led through
union hearings to Court hearings.
Cameron won some of the rounds, but
the fight went to Dougherty.
'"This is a tough union and there are
A few “beg pardons.” There is a won-
derful vignette in a report circulated
privately throughout the Labor move-
ment and entitled “Report of Trial of
Mr Clyde Cameron MHR by the
Executive Council on a charge by Mr
T. Dougherty of Alleged Failure to
Report Misconduct by members of the
Union in accordance with Rule 12 — held
at 321 Pitt-street, Sydney, on Tuesday,
July 28, 1959, at 10 am.” The report
states “Mr Dougherty said any debate on
the motion would have to be carried out
by the Executive Council without Mr C.
R. Cameron being present. Mr Cameron
said that he did not want to be thrown
out physically and for this reason wanted
the chairman to know that he would go
out \oluntariiy. However, he wanted to
know from the chairman whether Mr
Dougherty was entitled to be present
while the Executive Council debated the
matter. Mr Dougherty protested that
there was no question of throwing Mr
Cameron out physically.”
It is a measure of the change in
Dougherty, that apart from a protest to
Opposition Leader Calwell for having
circulated to new Federal Labor mem-
bers a letter obviously designed to help
Cameron in this year’s ALP Parliamen-
tary Executive ballot, he did not devote
any energy to getting Cameron defeated.
As it was, Cameron was lucky. He just
made the quota on the first ballot. Eleven
of his Parliamentary colleagues had
voted informally which made the quota
abnormally low.
'"Though Dougherty’s interests are es-
A sentially industrial and political he
thrcws a wider net than the conven-
tional trade union secretary. He is
friendly with Professor Harry Messel and
the AWU has contributed about £20,000
to nuclear research. Theirs must be a
weird conversational association the
fast-talking Messel who normally never
allows anyone to get a word in and
Dougherty who insists on never being
talked down. But the association has
been good for the AWU. It has sponsored
lectures on the use and development of
Australian power and its future signifi-
cance to Australia. Dougherty also has
presided over a resurgence of AWU
interest in literary matters. The union
has republished, recently, Spence’s “Aus-
tralia’s Awakening” and “The History of
the AWU.” It is now bringing out its
own Annual full of valuable sidelights
on the AWU’s history which is inextric-
ably intermingled with Australia’s his-
tory over the past 75 years. A history
of the AWU’s official organ, ‘The
Worker”, has also come out, reprinting
some of the poems and cartoons that
were milestones in Australian working
class literary development. Other literary
projects are planned. But this is only
the chocolate coa t i n.g . Basically
Dougherty is tough, as he has to be.
The AWU is tough So is its hiera chy.
But Dougherty and the AWU hierarchy
survive not only because they know how
to look after themselves but also be-
cause they know how to look after
their members.


OUT AND ABOUT
"A MATTER OF TASTE”
il ~r loved Melbourne,” Mr Victor
I Borge told us expansively, “I
J- loved the parks, the streets, the
houses, the little gardens out front.
On the basis of Melbourne I believe
Australians are a kindly, decent people
trying to develop their own culture. I
wouldn’t dare criticise the taste that
accompanies some of this —there isn’t
any.” His dark eyes screwed up wickedly.
He didn’t agree, he said, with Ava
Gardner's statement that Melbourne
—locale for “On The Beach” —was the
end of the world. “Smart talk,” he said.
“People like that amaze me. They have
no curiosity about anywhere they go.”
In a sense, we said, Miss Gardner stayed
in the same place and lived the same life
all of the time whether it was Holly-
wood. New York, Spain or .... “Wool-
worths” Mr Borge said decisively.
Mr Borge, a short, dark, greying man,
is an institution of sorts, his singular
musical talents the subject of a rather
witty pun in Noel Coward’s parody of
“Let’s Do It.” “A line in rather dubious
taste,” he told us. “Funny? Yes. But
vulgar and unnecessary from a man of
genius. I think he's unhappy about not
being knighted. Oh we 11...” He went
on to tell us that he regarded himself as
the only genuine one-man show he knew
of. This was not, he said, a reflection on
other single entertainers but they were
not one-man turns as he understood it.
We suggested Danny Kaye knowing we
had lost before we began. “Danny is a
brilliant comedian but he needs written
material. He is not a humorist. He
once asked me in New York how long
my show took. Two-and-a-half hours, I
said. ‘Mine takes three hours’ he said. He
had to beat me.”
Ruth Draper we persisted? “Tremen-
dous artist. But look at the props and
settings and clothes.” Mrs Borge, an
attractive dark-haired woman —they have
five children ranging from five to 17—
asked us if we had ever seen Cornelia
Otis Skinner’s one-woman show. We
hadn't. “When she moves out of a town
after a show she practically uses a
freight train to cart all her luggage and
stuff. People say ‘Skinner’s moving
again.’ ” Maurice Chevalier, we pleaded.
“He uses an orchestra and sings songs.
That’s a recital.” Mr Borge was granite-
hard on the subject but amiable. A
hovering waiter asked him if he was
enjoying his steak. “Delicious,” said Mr
Borge fiendishly. “What is it?” Conster-
nation spread across the waiter’s face.
A joke or not a joke? “No, delicious,”
said Mr Borge relenting. “Really it’s
beautiful.” The relieved man moved away.
“But who,” Mr Borge called him back,
“ordered it? I mean why don’t you put
it back on the horse?” Confusion
briefly reigned. Again it was delicious.
Really. He meant it.
To avoid more of that sort of fun we
asked Mr Borge when he had left his
native Denmark. “I was performing in
Sweden at the time of the Nazi inva-
sion. They put a price on my head. I
didn’t go back.” Mrs Borge inter-
rupted. “Yes you did ...” Mr Borge
looked at her. “Oh, that. My mother
was seriously ill in hospital and I slipped
back disguised to Copenhagen to see
her. We Danes didn’t take to the Occu-
pation too kindly. But our King Christian
was a great man. He used to ride a
horse through Copenhagen and talk to
people. They loved him. He used to greet
my father they both loved opera
at exactly the same place every morning.
For years and years, day in, day out,
my father told him a different story every
morning. My father was a great man,
too.”
Did he alter his routines for Australian
audiences? “No.” Could he spot audience
reaction? “Almost immediately. I can
tell. I like a varied audience. It’s easier to
hold. Audiences can be very kind. Once
in London I was playing some little thing
of Chopin’s when a woman cried out,
Bravo! I turned and I could just see
who it was. Dame Myra Hess! I was
flabbergasted. Her clapping me!
But audiences can also be diffi-
cult. And dangerous. Once in Bos-
ton I had an enormous audience of
some thousands when the lights went
out. Power failure. I could hear them
standing up, moving towards the exits,
and some of them were beginning to
panic. Quickly I struck a match.
‘Ladies and gentlemen,’ I said, ‘this is
part of the show. Please stay seated.’
Most of them sat down, but a lot stayed
standing. I struck another match.
‘Since you enjoy standing,’ I said. ‘I shall
play the national anthem.’ They all
stood. The lights came on as the anthem
finished. The audience knew I was kid-
ding and it looked quite nasty.” Quick
thinking we said. “You’re damn right.
Now if I go to a theatre, to a floor show
or to a restaurant I always sit near the
exit. Always. You can’t tell what may
happen.”
P.D.H.
“Dear diary”


NEHRU AGAINST TIME
From ELIZABETH PARTRIDGE in Calcutta
AS India’s Parliament reassembles
under the short shadows of a
benevolent March sun, Mr Nehru
begins his last foreseeable span of
effective political power. At 72, Jawa-
harlal Nehru is a man in a hurry with a
difficult objective: to influence his party
members —and through them, India—
towards a more liberal outlook.
What the world’s recent largest free
elections show clearly is that India’s
mood is more and more decisively
Rightist. The Leftist opposition, which
grew out of the 1957 elections, has been
cut right back with the two Socialist
parties nowhere.
The Indian communists, doubtless
because of an equivocal stand over their
Chinese comrades' border incursions,
have not leaped forward as expected,
notably in Leftist Calcutta, where it was
once feared they would gain control of
the Assembly. Instead the new Swan-
tantra (Freedom) Party, backed by feudal
and business elements, scored remarkable
successes for a little organised party,
particularly in Rajasthan, a former
Congress party stronghold. Elsewhere
the highly orthodox, near-fascist Jan
Sangh party has increased its grip.
It was no accident that Mr Nehru, a
canny politician, campaigned most
vigorously against the Swantantra party
(except, of course, when he was defend-
ing Krishna Menon against his own party
men).
Today Mr Nehru heads a party which,
by and large, is antithetical to socialism
as you might expect men to be who have
been gripped by the caste system for
2000 and more years. Once out of Mr
Nehru’s earshot (such is his hold still)
the majority of Congressmen express
themselves frankly in sympathy with
Swantantra ideals. "Scratch the average
Congressman and you have a Jan
Sanghi,” is only further from the truth
than most aphorisms.
Like the Hindu religion, Congress has
always been all things to all men;
embracing at one extreme the crypto-
communist thinking of Krishna Menon,
and at the other Babu Purushottam Das
Tandon who had a spittoon carried into
Parliament so that he could spew betel
nut juice before demanding the abolition
of cow slaughter.
The problem is that, for India, this is
not just a Right-Left polarisation as we
know it. It is a question of India going
on with Mr Nehru into the space age or
backward with the Sanskrit pandits into
the long shadows of the dark ages. It
would mean an India we could ill afford:
morally isolated from the Common-
wealth, a prey to communalism and dis-
unity, dedicated to sacred cowdung as a
childbirth disinfectant, oral prescription
and priestly annointment.
Admittedly over the next critical years
left him Mr Nehru must also check the
wild cat policies of his Leftists ; more
socialism, he knows, would drive Con-
gressmen further Right. Besides he
accepts, finally, that he has not enough
time for more socialism and would settle
in Congress, as in India, for liberalism
per se.
Unfortunately, even liberalism looks a
Himalayan dream with the recent elec-
tion results strengthening orthodox ten-
dencies within Congress. Some of Mr
Nehru’s other “little local difficulties”
include settlements with Pakistan and
China, a numbing population increase
which annually mops up hard won plan-
ning advances, and a decline in the effi-
ciency of the administrative services,
suffering grievously from Parkinson’s law.
All things considered, it is a happy
thought that the delectable Jacqueline
Kennedy should have holidayed in India
as Mr Nehru needs a little innocent
distraction.
LIFE IN ALGIERS
( he Italian Incident)
From NEAL ASCHERSON in Algiers
The events of a night in Algiers now
surpass any adventures of the
Marx Brothers in “A Night in
Casablanca.” As the cease-fire
limps towards reality and as the
European Secret Army Organisation
(OAS) terrorists redouble their efforts to
destroy its effect in advance, the experi-
ences of an uncommitted journalist come
to resemble some awful old comic film,
shown night after night to the same
captive audience.
Saturday afternoon: A group of
terrorists, unrecognised by all save the
impassive receptionists, enters the hotel
with assorted arsenal concealed under
raincoats, goes up by lift to the room of
an Italian television team, abducts the
team. Returns to collect £3OOO worth of
television equipment. The Italians
severely lectured for their juvenile attitude
towards OAS, and released.
Saturday evening: A tall, polite gentle-
man with open-necked shirt and hair-line
moustache asks me in the lobby if I am
an Italian journalist. No? A pity.
Fifteen minutes later, the correspondent
of “La Stampa” is run out of the hotel
with a pistol in his ribs and driven to
a villa where a “tribunal” informs him
that unless all Italian journalists leave
Aigeria at once, they will be shot. Fie is
returned to hotel: consternation among
50 or so international journalists.
Saturday dinner-time: Reappearance
of tall man in the dining-room, accom-
panied by a short fat man with greased
hair. He demands the present where-
abouts of “La Stampa” correspondent.
Mob of furious journalists surrounds
them, they retire into the bar. Forty
people talk at once, and the OAS, looking
harassed, leave the hotel with correspon-
dents of the BBC and the “Daily Tele-
graph." In token of solidarity, the entire
Press corps troops out with the victims
to the pavement outside the hotel, where
the tall man is observed to be giving
orders to four motor-cycle policemen in
immaculate uniform, who are covering
his retreat. A lorry load of French troops
rolls by without sparing us a glance. The
“Daily Telegraph” and BBC men
abducted to a small bar across the
street, where they are bought beers
(insisting that the OAS should pay), and
treated to 20-minute alcoholic sermon on
the morals of the Italian radio services.
They part with handshakes.
Meanwhile in the hotel, another Italian
reporter approaches a French paratroop
major in bar. The major refuses twice to
intervene to protect the journalists. The
Italian observes “My compliments to the
French Army.” Free fight, which the
athletic major distinctly and immediately
wins. General hubbub reigns for an hour
or so. Enter, finally, two French police-
men, a tall thin one and a short fat one,
on leave from the cast of “La Plume de
ma Tante." After listening carefully to
account of evening's events, they suggest
Italian journalists might wish to lay
assault charge.
Sunday morning: All Italian journalists
save one leave on morning Caravelle,
which was fully booked up ahead but
suddenly found it had six available
places—for Italians only.
Sunday afternoon: Phalanx of Press-
men escort remaining Italian to Press con-
ference at Delegation Generale. It is


!■' ‘stab , ish"d 1 HfP
Contractors to Government Municipal,
<>hipping , Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
Si.
JACKSON &
OSULUVav
PTYLTD
, .Ist
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & C«.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
typographers
MONOTYPE AN D LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MAND FACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
•‘JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you properly
covered? Now is the time to
review your insurances. Serious
financial losses can result on private
and business premises that are
improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
73 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your
fancy write to the Manager, who will
quote you a price for the original.
raining softly on the vast stairway where
the Battle of the Barricades began two
years ago, and the marble pavement of
the Forum gleams like a rose petal. Bitter
and inconclusive discussion of security of
the Press with French authorities.
Sunday evening: Dinner time. Tall
man, this time in a suit, enters dining-
room again to find Italian. Uproar. Tall
man is heard to be yelling despairingly
“1 want peace, I tell you, I want peace!”
Fails either to find Italian or to abduct
“Daily Telegraph” man for a second
round of beers. Departure, with threats,
of empty-handed OAS commando,
guarded this time by jeep load of men
with submachine-guns in the uniform of
the police Garde Mobile.
Sunday evening, 20 minutes later:
Noise of screaming brakes as vehicles
draw up outside ; battering on the door ;
inrush of armed men led by civilians in
raincoats with automatics ; general
order of “Hands up.” Invaders supported
by men with submachine-guns in uniform
of Republican Security companies. A
number of journalists bolt for lifts. After
ten minutes of uncertainty, transpires
that these really are men of the Repub-
lican Security companies. General
identity check and room by room search
follows. Hotel sealed off by armed
cordon. Maigret figures with sweaters,
Gauloise stubs attached to lower lip.
batter on a bedroom door which is
finally opened by an old man in pink
pyjamas, about 70 or 80, who cries in
quavering voice: “Je vous emmerde
tous!” and slams his door again. On
another floor, a married lady is found
in the wrong bedroom.
Monday morning: At about two the
police depart. At half-past four a heavy
explosion rocks the city and brings us
awake. More follow, and more. From
balconies, we count up to 90 and then 100,
and then lose count. The OAS is
destroying Muslim shops all over Algiers
with plastic bombs, but the sound is
majestic and flamboyant: the tolling of a
bell in the caverns of the earth or the
steps of a slow’ procession. Between the
detonations, a faint and distant sound
rises from the Muslim quarters: the
voices of men and women crying out in
fear, the ripple of automatic fire, the
barking and howling of a thousand
dogs.
WILL LIBERALS SPLIT?
By ALAN REID
IN a Parliamentary democracy, a
majority of two may not be as im-
pressive as a majority of 32 but it is
just as effective. This is the basic
factor in the current Federal political
situation. Despite gallant declarations
to the contrary, Labor, as things stand, is
impotent. It can fulminate, bluster, fume
and threaten. But that two majority for
the Menzies Government in the House of
Representatives stands as effectively be-
tween Labor and control of the Treasury
benches as did the 32 majority of the
Menzies Government from 1958 to 1961.
Unless there is a break in the Menzies
Government’s battle line, or some de-
velopment over which nobody has any
control (such as, say, the death of a
Government member in a seat Labor can
win), the Federal Liberal-Country Party
coalition is in a position to live out the
ti ree years until it is constitutionally
obliged to face the electors at the end of
1964 or early 1965.
This is giving Labor both a case of
frustration and jitters. Three years is a
long time. As well as supervising a re-
distribution of electorate boundaries, the
Menzies Government could regain por-
tion of its lost popularity. Labor could
make mistakes as disastrously costly as
some which have scarred its history over
recent years.
This makes for a piquant situation. It
also makes what is happening inside the
Liberal-Country Farty coalition more
important than what is happening inside
the Parliament. Will their battle line
break? The Labor party’s answer is
“Yes”. Labor tacticians believe that -
sufficient number of Liberals will make
moves to replace Menzies with somebody
who has a better chance of leading the
Liberal-CP combination to a win at the
next Federal elections and that in the
process of replacing Menzies, the Liberal-
CP administration will disintegrate into
warring fragments which must force an
early election.
These Labor analysts could be right.
They have nistory on their side. What
they forecast as likely to happen in the
future happened in 1941 in circumstances
uncannily similar to those in which
Menzies finds himself today. He won
an election narrowly. A section of his
followers believed he could never win
another one. They replaced him as Prime
Minister with Sir Arthur Fadden (then
Mr Fadden). The Government disinte-
grated and Labor moved in to take over


%
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£A363,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
control of the Commonwealth Govern-
ment for eight years.
But the Labor analysts ould be wrong.
Three of the key characters in the present
Liberal-CP set up —Menzies himself,
Treasurer Harold Holt, and CP Leader
Jack McEwen —were participants in the
1941 happenings. They may have earned
something from the mistakes they made
then. Menzies himself also is a different
proposition now from what he was then.
He has tested himself once in adversity
and found that he could succeed.
While Labor believes that Menzies has
won his last election. I doubt whether the
present-day Menzies subscribes to that
belief. He knows his own history—
intimately. He has had more political ups
and downs than a yo-yo. He has a
smaller time margin than he had 20-odd
years ago when it was accepted that
“You can’t win with Menzies.” He is
68 this year but his health is still good.
Two recent statements suggest that
these are the lines along which his mind
is working. The first statement he made
himself. He told a meeting of the joint
Government parties that reports of his
intended resignation were baseless and
that he intended to stay as Prime
Minister. The second statement came
from the Liberal Party Federal President,
Sir Philip Mcßride, after a meeting of
the Liberal Party Federal Executive.
Mcßride declared that Menzies had the
complete support and loyalty of the
Liberal Party organisation.
While at first glance, Mcßride's state-
ment seems a rather hamhanded one, it
might not have been as hamkanded as
it would appear. One aim of the Mcßride
statement undoubtedly was to remove
uncertainty about Menzies’ intentions.
Uncertainty— not knowing precisely
where the leaders stand and what they
intend doing—has always been a major
contributor towards disintegration in a
party. From Mcßride’s (and Menzies’)
viewpoint it was worthwhile being ham-
handed if it cleared the air.
But because Menzies has made clear
his intention of staying in the Prime
Ministership that does not necessarily
mean he will stay. All it means is that at
this stage he will not relinquish it
voluntarily. Somebody has to take on the
job of removing him. This puts the ball
back in his would-be successors’ court.
They have to take the play from there.
There is room to make a play.
William Wentworth (NSW) and Sir
Wilfred Kent Hughes (Vic) have neutral-
ised themselves within the Parliament by
stating that they do not regard Labor
as an acceptable alternative to the
Menzies Government. But as well as
being Parliamentarians they are par-
ticipants in what goes on in the Govern-
ment's party meetings, and both have
indicated that there is room for move-
ment in that arena; signifying by their
attitudes that they would be happier
under a different leader. Senator Teg
Wright, a Dickensian Tasmanian lawyer
with a sonorous voice and a long memory
for what he considers Menzies-adminis-
tered slights, is anothei who would
regard Menzies’ departure with happy
approbation.
At the moment, Trade Minister John
McEwen, 62 this month, a blackbrowed,
gaunt farmer type, who is Deputy Prime
Minister as well as Country Party Leader,
is probably the only would-be successor
in a position to make a play. Holt, long
regarded as Menzies’ heir-apparent, is
closely identified as Federal Treasurer
with the November, 1960, economic
measures which produced unemployment
and last December’s election result. He
is too preoccupied with re-establishing
his own position to worry about taking
over Menzies’. Attorney-General Sir
Garfield Barwick seems to have dropped
out of the picture. A comparatively recent
recruit to politics, he might have made a
Prime Minister for the Liberals if the
going had continued easy. But the going
ahead of them does not look easy to the
Liberals. It has the appearance of being
a very hard road. And understandably
they would prefer an old experienced
dog to guide them along it.
HPHERE are other would-be successors.
But none of them fall like McEwen
into this “old dog for a hard road”
category. Consequently they are not im-
mediate dangers to Menzies and his posi-
tion. McEwen is the one to watch. He
has undoubtedly been testing—cautiously
as is his habit —the value of making a
play at this stage for the Prime Minister-
ship. Knowledge of the tests he was
■making may have been part of the reason
for the Menzies-Mcßride statements. If
McEwen thought there was a chance of
Menzies pulling out, he might feel under
a compulsion to make an early play. If
he knew Menzies had no intention of
pulling out at this stage, he, being a very
careful, shrewd man with a lot at stake
including a Ministerial portfolio which
he would lose if the Government disinte-
grated. might postpone his play in-
definitely.
For McEwen has his own problems.
He is Country Party and Victorian,
and that puts him in a very awkward
position vis-a-vis the Liberais. The Vic-
torian Country Party is implacably hos-
tile to the Bolte Liberal State Govern-
ment. It would happily join a coalition
Government with Labor to put the Bolte
administration off the Victorian Treasury
benches. Feeling between the Liberals
and the Victorian CP is intense. If Men-
zies had decided to retire voluntarily
and to use his powerful influence to get
McEwen nominated as his successor,
McEwen might have a chance of keeping
a Federal Government together.
But now Menzies has dug his toes in
and proposes continuing in the Prime
Ministership, McEwen’s position is
weaker. His chances of keeping a
Federal Government together if he seeks
the Prime Ministership in opposition to
Menzies are slender. The strains and
tensions that would be certain to emerge
in such a conflict together with the
Liberal-CP feeling in Victor'a would
probably oe sufficient to wreck any
Government. If McEwen decides to risk
these possibilities and to make a bid for
the Prime Ministership, the fate of the
present non-Labor Federal Govern-
ment must become uncertain. But as
things stand that exasperating, frus-
trating two majority for the Liberal-CP
coalition in the House of Representatives
stands as effectively between Labor and
the Treasury benches and an early
Labor-enforced election as did the
Government's overpowering 32 majority
in the previous Parliament.


WE
PPLY
EXPLOSIVES Log-splitting and
post-hole guns. Powder and fuse
for same. Blasting mats. Tamping
rods. Magazines. Carrying boxes.
Exploders and all accessories.
STEAM VALVES Everlasting
valve. Particularly suitable for
boiler blow-off or full on.
WATER FILTERS For farm,
household and industrial use.
TUYERES—Hot air for forges.
MINING Curvilinear tables for
ore concentration. Classifiers.
Rapid magnetting machines.
TOOLS Barrows, pinch and other
bars. Jumpers, mattocks, picks,
handles, shovels, quarry tools, road-
lamps, etc.
ENQUIRIES TO
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.,
78 PARRAMATTA RD. CAMPERDOWN, N.S.W.
"DEAR PIONEER..."
When Leeton was Another Garden of Eden
By CEDRIC FLOWER
We were having a quiet cup of tea
on the verandah when father got
the letter from Leeton. We
were in a semi-coma brought on
by too much tea, which we’d been drink-
ing steadily all day, country fashion. My
parents are great tea drinkers ; staying
with them is like living an ad. for the Tea
Bureau. The mail, groceries and morning
papers are delivered by the local store-
keeper and sometimes he has a cup of
tea, too. This day there was only the
one letter, addressed to Father.
It started off: “Dear Pioneer.” I
think that’s what really got Father wild,
the “Dear Pioneer” bit. Anyway, he
quivered all over and began to shout and
we heard him all over the house shouting
and banging things.
Mother picked up the letter, read it
and put it down with a sigh. “Oh, dear,”
she said, “1 wish they hadn’t.”
“Who?” we asked.
“It’s from the Leeton Golden Anniver-
sary Irrigana Festival. They’re celebra-
ting turning on the water 50 years ago
and they want your father to go to the
pioneer dinner this month. It’s a very
nice letter but I do wish they hadn’t.”
“Why ever not?” I asked. “You were
pioneers. Didn't you go there when all
the irrigation business started? It would
be interesting to see it again. An awful
lot will have changed in 50 years.”
“I certainly hope so,” mother said with
feeling. “I understand it’s quite a nice
place now and very well run. Quite
different from when we were there in
1913. But don’t suggest going back to
your father. Even after all these years
the very mention of Leeton sets him off.
You know,” she said, lowering her voice,
“he threatened to shoot all the experts
before we left.”
“Really, what experts?” My wife is
always interested in talk of homicide.
“Oh, fruit experts, I expect,” replied
mother dreamily. “There were so many
experts in those days. I remember they
all wore elastic-sided boots. And officials.
All the experts were officials and all the
officials were experts on something. They
were all very helpful when we arrived.
Your father bought 25 acres at Leeton
after he’d seen all the ads. and brochures
about the new irrigation area being
another garden of Eden, and how young
pioneers were needed.
“Well, the soil experts came and told us
the land was perfect for peaches and
they’d take every peach we grew for the
great new canneries. They insisted on
one thing, though. They had to be
Alberta peaches. So after a year sweeten-
ing the soil we planted 1000 Alberta
peaches and 200 apricots. Everyone was
doing the same. You got the trees from
the Irrigation Trust. Everything was
planned on scientific lines, you see. It was
something quite new and all the experts
were there to help.
“We’d been living in a tent all this
time and when the trees were in we began
building our house, a very nice one, too,
out of sun-dried bricks from Yanco. All
this took money so your father got a
day job with a timber merchant to tide
us over until the trees had their first crop.
Such beautiful peaches you never saw.
We couldn’t wait to get them to the
factory and collect our cheque.
“All the settlers began sending in their
crops and got a nasty shock. The canning
factory couldn’t handle all the fruit, not
even a fraction of it. That factory was
just like a woman who decides to do a
few preserves and asks for some fruit and
suddenly has a lorry-load dumped in the
backyard.
“In desperation they tried drying some
of the apricots and there were trays of
them drying in the sun from Leeton
nearly to Yanco, and the terrible red dust
storms came and ruined the lot. All the
undelivered fruit that should have been
in cans and was rotting on the trees
became a scandal.
“The Trust said the factory was having
‘teething trouble’ and why didn’t we grow
tomatoes between our fruit trees for a
quick cash crop. They were going into
the tomato pulp business in a big way,
they said. They forgot about the factory
until everyone’s tomatoes were nearly
ripe, then they built one in a terrible
hurry. Nothing more than a shed, really,
and when the tons of tomatoes started
pouring in they just about buried it. We
had four acres of beautiful tomatoes and
all we got was a cheque for £1 and
a note saying that owing to over-produc-
tion the factory wouldn’t take any more.
The few tomatoes that did get into cans
went all funny and started to blow up and
the tomato pulp expert had a nervous
breakdown and had to be taken away.
“It was the same story with the peaches.
No one in authority would admit that the
canning side was hopelessly inadequate
and in a dreadful state of muddle. They
blamed us and said we were all over-
producing and had to go on a quota,
which meant they'd only take some of the
fruit we’d all been told to grow. We
had five tons a day ready for delivery and
our quota was four cwt. The factory
couldn’t even cope with the quotas and
half the deliveries were tipped into a gully
out of sight. All they took from us that
year was 45 tons at less than £1 a ton.
“There were angry complaints about
the mismanagement from all the settlers
like us who couldn’t see any end to the
muddle and couldn’t make enough out
of the orchards to make ends meet. We
were practically living on galahs your
father shot. I’d make them into a nice
pie. It used to relieve his feelings to go
out and shoot something.
“Which reminds me of the shipment of
tinned fruit the Trust sent to the East.


They were always telling us to hang on
because of the big export drives when the
new factories got built. Somebody
thought it a good idea to call the brand
Ibis’ and there was a colored picture
of the bird on the tins. The natives all
thought they were tinned birds and
wouldn't buy them at any price. In Egypt
the ibis is sacred and they were deeply
shocked at it being put into tins like
that. Eventually the name was changed
and the label had a big peach on.
“With things getting worse year by
year no one believed in the ‘teething
trouble' story any more, not even the
Trust. They sent for another expert, this
time to America where they know about
getting things into tins. We had great
hopes of him and the first thing he said
was that Alberta peaches were no good
for canning. In future only clingstone
varieties would be accepted for the
factory.
“This was the last straw. Some settlers
were so much in debt and so disillusioned
they just packed a bag and walked off
their properties. After five years of all
our hopes and plans all we had were
debts and an orchard full of Alberta
peaches. We just couldn't take any more
so we sold out for the little we could get
and that was the end of that.
“But what really hurt was the story
they put out about how fine everything
was going to be now that the unsuitable
settlers had weeded themselves out of
the irrigation area. That’s when your
father wanted to go out and shoot them
all, but, of course, 1 wouldn’t let him.
“So never mention Leeton to your
father. I'll just write to the Irrigana
Festival people and say we're indisposed."
IN BLACK AND WHITE
By J. MURRAY
Asa young Australian woman (white)
appearing in public with a small
child (black) I met sympathy, curiosity
and behind-the-hand jokes.
I was working as an assistant house-
mother in a children’s home near London
and Marty was a four-year-old Nigerian
with a place in every heart. He had a
Swannee River smile, a collection of
bright bow-ties, a wonderful sense of
rhythm and a laugh that can be described
only as hearty although he was only four.
He would burst into impromptu dances,
his arms and legs swinging flowingly into
the beat of his shouted “da-DA-di-DA
di-DA-da-poof-poof” and then run off
with a laugh that made us all laugh with
him. He had his faults, of course. He
would destroy anything in sight and laugh
as he did it and. when in a temper, he
had the infuriating habit of hurling his
shoes as far as his strong little body
would let him, making us spend hours
searching for them.
One day, as a result of a mysterious
injury which Marty had inflicted on his
hand during an unsupervised split second,
he and I went to the casualties’ clinic at
the hospital in the next town. As always
happened when we took Marty out,
everyone wanted to pat him on the head
and make friends. He had that effect.
Whether his mood was one of big brown-
eyed solemnity or hearty jollity, he won
your heart just by looking at you. But
he was black and I was white (and
without a wedding ring) and therefore we
met the sympathy, the curiosity and the
jokes.
The woman sitting next to me in the
waiting-room went straight to the point.
“Isn’t he a lovely little fellow? Have
you adopted him?”
I explained about the home.
“I was just wondering,” she said, and
added consolingly, “1 didn't think you
were his mother, you know.” She made
being Marty's mother sound like a social
crime.
The doctor examined Marty’s hand and
sent us to the X-ray department. The
waiting-room was full and Marty
solemnly surveyed the gathering, winning
rows of motherly smiles from the women
patients. A nurse walked through, fell
immediately under the child's spell and
tried in vain to coax a smile from him.
but Marty was too full of self-pity to
oblige.
“What a lovely little boy you have
there!’’ she said, and then, realising the
possible implications of her choice of
words, patted my shoulder and added, “I
know you’re not his mother, dear.” 1
had been acquitted once more.
Our turn for an X-ray came. The
technician, who dli not need to guess
because he had Marty's card in front of
him, chatted to the child and said to me
with a smile that was almost a chuckle,
“I bet you get some lovely looks when
you're out with Marty!”
He took the X-ray and we went into
the waiting-room to wait for the plates.
The technician came in to hand some
papers to the typist who was working
with the receptionist. Fie gave me another
of his chuckling grins. He talked to the
girl for a few minutes but, judging by
her glances in our direction and his grin,
they were not talking about the papers.
As he walked away I heard him say, “No,
she's not his mother.” 1 guessed that
he had been leading her to believe that
I was and had given her a “don’t-let-that-
happen-to-you” lecture.
I was given the plates and we went
back to the doctor' waiting-room. A
nurse took the plates, glanced at the
surname and said. “Just take a seat for
a r. inuG, Mrs Robertson." And immedi-
ately she was embarrassed. She
suspected that she had made a blunder
and was embarrassed at the thought of
embarrassing me in front of the dozen
or so patients. Feeling that it was
•perhaps my turn to do the shoulder-
patting and reassuring this time, I
assumed the role of Mrs Robertson wTh
a smile and sat down. Marty, protected
from hurt feelings by his mere four years,
sat beside me.
When Marty’s hand had been attended
to we left. As we walked towards the
hospital gates he lagged behind, and
when I reached the gate Marty was still
several yards behind me, standing very
still in the driveway, lost in admiration
of his snowy-white bandages and the two
pennies the doctor had bribed him with.
“Come on, Marty!” 1 called.
Just then an elderly man drew level
with the child. He stopped and said,
“Go to Mummy, Marty!”
1 almost thanked him.


Around Melbourne
NO CAMELS FOR SWANSTON STREET
JOACK in the days of Nod, Mel-
bourne’s Eight Hour Day pro-
cession was something to see. In 1916,
for example, 11,000 trade unionists
marched and never were there less
than 15 bands. The stockmen used to
ride cracking their stockwhips, the tin-
smiths rode in suits of armor as
knights of the Labor movement, and
legend had it that the brewery wagon
'horses were kept in all their pristine
beauty for the big day. They didn’t
tarnish themselves with work during
the rest of the year.
It was fun, there was so much for
free. The biscuit makers threw out
free biscuits, the pastrycooks free
cakes, the bakers free rolls and the
soapmakers, bless ’em, gave us free
soap. Then there were the superb
trade union banners, hand-painted on
silk by some of the leading artists of
the day. Many of them were worth
£l5O or more when £l5O was 150
pounds. And the workers always
carried the first banner that was used
in the original parade of 1856.
After the Second World War, Eight
Hour Day became more simply
Labor Day. It dwindled and died. The
historic banners mostly were left to
rot. This year on Labor Day in the
grand Moomba procession there was
one float entered by the Labor Party
Women’s Central Organising Com-
mittee. It was a floral clock depicting
the Eight Hours’ Movement and there
were pretty girls, suitably attired, to
demonstrate eight hours’ work, eight
hours’ rest and eight hours’ recreation.
It didn’t win a prize. The grand
prize winner was the entry of the
Myer Emporium, a huge silver swan,
which spouted Swan Lake music and
supported a team of ballerinas. Also
successful were Peters Ice Cream
(Vic.) Ltd, G. J. Coles and Co., the
S.E.C., the Chamber of Manufactures
and others. Yes, many an old Labor
hand must have wiped a tear from
his eye and thought how ironical it
was that private enterprise and the
retailers of Bourke St had completely
taken over Eight Hour Day.
As for the marching girls, who
turned out in far greater force than
the entire. Australian Army, I don’t
think any of them, this Labor Day,
had ever heard of the Eight Hours’
Movement. The procession wasn’t
quite as originally planned. We were
to have had all Mr Bullen’s caged
circus animals, plus his elephants and
camels. There were so many protests
from animal lovers about the indignity
of parading caged animals down
Swanston Street that they were
banned.
However, we did have a parade of
League footballers in open cars. Each
car moved forward slowly with a team
captain standing there to be cheered,
splendid in his football regalia. So if
we had no caged lions and tigers we
had the compensation of seeing our
favorite caged humans.
Qur new racetrack of Sandown
Park opened for car racing with
an all-star cast of Jack Brabham, Stir-
ling Moss, Ron Flockhart, John
Surtees, and co. Nor were they
deterred by the fact that the track
was conveniently opposite the famous
Springvale Crematorium. Over
100,000 people came to the two-day
meeting and it was agreed that this
could become Australia’s finest car
racing circuit.
But what of Sandown Park as a
racetrack? Although the very beauti-
ful main stand is complete and the
Melbourne Racing Club has spent over
one million pounds still no date has
been set for the start of horse racing.
There has been delay after delay and
always the club has given the credit
squeeze as its excuse.
The only organisation that seems
entirely happy with horse racing in
Victoria at the moment is the Totali-
sator Agency Board which operates the
off-course betting system. The general
manager, Mr L. E. Smith, announced
last week that in its first year of
operation the TAB had a turnover of
nearly £9j million. Hospitals and
charities would receive £300,000.
Even Mr Smith was startled. He said
the turnover had greatly exceeded
expectations.
At the racetracks no expectations
have been exceeded. Since the TAB
began operations on March 11, 1961,
attendances at Flemington have been
down 10 per cent. Mr Smith and
VRC officials all deny that the TAB
is the cause. Many other reasons
have been put forward, such as the
fact that young people can’t afford
to go to racing any more and that
racing at the moment has no stars.
It desperately needs another drawcard
like Tulloch. But whatever the
reasons the Melbourne Racing Club
must be worried about racing atten-
dances and there is no headlong rush
to open Sandown Park.
One suggestion was put forward in
the Press. To help kick things along
at Sandown Park why not have a
monster opening (I beg your pardon,
monsters have come into disrepute
lately) with both horse racing and
car racing? They could have some
events where Brabham, Moss,
McLaren and co. rode the horses and
Purtell, Sellwood, Lane and co. drove
the racing cars. It would be a
boomer.
BATMAN
QUEBEC, A WINTER JOURNEY
By GWEN KELLY
Tmprisonment in a waste of snow, the
± high, beautiful banks of it, turning
brown on the roadways, covering the
trees, the letter-boxes, even the houses,
but imprisonment for the living! It is
finally desolating, even if the prison is a
cosy flat, with double permanently shut
windows, a perpetual little hot-house
where the temperature never drops below
70deg. and frequently rises to 80deg.,
while we curl on the lounge, eyes glued
to the flickering TV screen in the corner
and eat toasted sandwiches, while the
blizzard outside hurls snow ineffectually
against the closely barred windows.
Even in sunlight the prison encloses.
Outside the sun sparkles on the snow,
now covered in ice like a clear toffee
glaze on a frosted cake, in which is
reflected the line of white cottages across
the street. But the temperature is at the
most 15deg. and possibly -lOdeg. or even
lower, so the TV continues to flicker in
the heated room.
After three months, any possibility of
escape has the glamor of a dream, any
chance of a journey an opportunity to be
grasped even if common sense warns you
that the discomforts have a more than
even chance of outweighing the pleasures.
Away across the St Lawrence River,
10 to 20 miles from Quebec, lies “L’lls


d'Orleans,” in summer a calculated tourist
resort with its charming villages ana
isolated farms where life meanders along
with the efficiency of pre-revolutionary
France. Here the inhabitants still weave
their own cloth, the horse still pulls an
ancient plough, the old stone ovens still
survive in the open yard, and the vaulted,
utterly tasteless, home-made loaves may
be bought for a few cents.
February is probably not the time to
visit the island but after three weekends
of blizzard, when all contact between the
island and the mainland was lost, the
bright blue sky that seemed, falsely in
fact, to promise an early Spring, proved
an irresistible temptation. The buses were
running and the buses after all are heated.
If it proved too cold, we should simply
stay in the bus. There was a two-hour
wait at the terminus but this would
give us time to see the island and if it
proved too chilly we could wait at the
bus depot.
The trip out to the island began. As it
was the first bus for three weeks, the
warm interior steamed with the breath
of the brown-eyed chattering French
Canadians, bent on the familial Sunday
trips so dear to their French Catholic
hearts. It was hot, even stifling, wrapped
in quilted coats, scarves, ear-muffs and
woollen caps much too cumbersome to
remove even on an hour's journey.
Through the steamy windows of the
bus stretched a winter landscape barren
in its glacial starkness. The St Lawrence
is a fine river, in summer broad and
gently flowing, surrounded by cliffs capped
by the inevitable silvered spire that marks
correctly the eminence of the Church
in Quebec City. But now the river lay
below us, a field of white ice in which
the hillocks of thicker ice rose powdered
with snow like potential lumpy icebergs.
In the centre, a grey cold line of water
moved sluggishly, the feeble effort of a
great river to survive. Away in the
distance the rock-faced city rose above
the frozen river to the Chateau
Frontenac.
The island itself was covered in snow.
The farms lay buried with an occasional
roof jutting over the horizon and the
tops of the fences tracking across the
snow like the black steel of a single
railway line. Every so often a village
appeared with the usual lovely church,
old poorhouses and tiny shops, villages
called Saint-Jean or Saint-Laurent, or
Sainte-Famille. And at every one we
dropped a batch of the bright-eyed
Frenchmen.
Saint-Francois was the terminus so we
went to Saint-Francois. The little towns
we had already passed contained as a
rule a small cafe which supplied no doubt
the thick liquorice-tasting coffee that
seemed to be a speciality of the rural
Quebequais. But it would be hot.
We drew up at last in an old tin shed,
shivering beneath the blast of a wind
blowing down the St Lawrence from the
nearby Laurentian mountains. We were
the only passengers left in the bus.
“Have to get out here,” said the gum-
chewing young driver in French to my
husband. “Far as I go.”
Our emergence into one of the coldest
afternoons I have ever experienced was
reluctant. The bus driver emerged, too,
flung himself into an aged car edged
with rust that hung lace-like along the
borders of the vehicle and took off with
frightful noise and considerable speed
down the road back to Saint-Jean.
The village of Saint-Francois clung to
the tip of the island facing the broad
sweep of the St Lawrence as it stumbled
along its frozen route to the ocean. On
the last point of the island was a grave-
yard. One solitary shop, locked and
barred, faced the road.
There was nothing else but a few
scattered houses, and the church, which
rose in front of the graveyard like a
remnant of the beautiful. It was old, very
old, built in grey stone with a simplicity
of line more charming than many of the
more publicised churches of Quebec. As
with all Catholic churches, the thick
wooden door was not locked.
Inside the church was warmth. Too
much gilt had been sprinkled around
with a lavish hand, but it remained, in
spite of the tawdry superfluities, beautiful.
For some time we sat in vacancy, medita-
ting, but in the end the silence, the very
presence of holiness, began to oppress us.
Beneath our clothes, we were again warm,
almost hot. We could face a further sight
of Saint-Francois. Our belief in our own
hardiness was reinforced when we noticed
that the shop was now open.
One of Quebec's rural citizens gazed
without interest at us, having decided no
doubt, with a first glance, that our
ancestry was English. She continued to
talk in the broad dialect, which increases
in unintelligibility the further you get
away from the city, to a character equally
French and equally rural seated on a
wooden bench.
“Coffee?” queried my husband.
“No coffee," she said, continuing her
conversation with her compatriot.
“Anything hot?” said my husband.
“Chocolate, perhaps.”
“Nothing hot,” she answered.
Our shoulders drooped.
“What have you got?”
“Seven Up or Coke.”
Seven Up, a peculiarly tasteless con-
cotion that passes as lemonade on the
North American continent! Even so, it
is preferable to the perennial Coke, which
the Canadians swallow like a drug. So
we took the Seven Up, plus four huge flat
chocolate cakes wrapped in plastic whose
counterparts had dazzled my daughters in
every local supermarket. We emerged
into the waste of snow and ice, our
insides reinforced by cold drink and
clutching the half-eaten chocolate
monstrosity that my smaller daughter had
failed to consume.
“Him and his status-symbol."


We looked hopefully up the snowy
road away from the church.
“A short walk,” we said, “Maybe it will
warm us up,” an illusion in which we
persisted in spite of the by now undoubted
evidence that Canadian mid-winter walks
never warmed anyone.
Four-hundred yards and the cold was
unendurable. We returned to the bus
depot. The tin shed did not offer much of
a view but the bus was warm. Provincial
Canadians of French extraction, however,
have naturally suspicious natures. The
bus was locked fore and aft. We
pounded on the windows, banged on the
doors. We contemplated break and
entry but a broken bus would offer
only a temporary haven of warmth and
there were 20 night miles to Quebec
City. We stood in the entrance and
looked forlornly down the road. Half
an hour to go and a cold that increased
in intensity every minute.
“We’ll return to the church,” we
said.
Opposite was a tiny wooden house.
The front door opened and an old man,
marked by frailty, invited us in.
We gratefully rushed through the door
into a tiny room, dominated by an Aus-
tralian-like combustion stove fed by oil.
There were two of them. He was 84, she
was 82; a huge old woman in bulky
contrast to his spidery frame.
“You are strangers,” he said to my
husband in French. “Where do you
come from?” “Australia.” He shook his
head. “New South Wales,” said my
husband. He shook his head. “Sydney.”
Their faces brightened. “I visited Nova
Scotia once,” he said. “No,” said my
husband, “Sydney, Australia.” “It is
damp in the Maritimes,” said the old
woman.
We all relapsed into silence. The old
man returned to his TV. A bowling
match was in progress. I pulled up my
chair next to his. “The TV pleases my
husband,” she said switching on the
radio so that the two sounds counter-
pointed one another or crashed into
disharmony.
Every so often we glanced through the
curtains in the direction of Saint-Jean. At
last the lacy rust vehicle came hurtling
along the road. “Merci beaucoup,” we
said. “We shall never forget your kind-
ness,” added my husband. “We never
visit Sydney these days,” said the old
woman. “The Maritimes are not as nice
as Quebec,” said the old man.
Back in the bus we were again lapped
in warmth. At every village we took on
the Frenchmen we had dropped in the
afternoon. We were a congenial,
familial band. As we rounded the
opposite end of the island, the lights of
Quebec shone through the darkness
fringing the frozen edges of the far shore.
Around Sydney
THE AIR FORCE FIGHTS ON
|"\ld soldiers never die—they just
fight on among themselves. That
is the impression you would get, any-
way, if you had dropped in last week
on the Sydney headquarters of the
Air Force Association. There, in a
dogfight to rival any seen over the
desert or New Guinea, former
RAAF brass were locked in dis-
pute.
Cause of all the fuss was the
RAAF Memorial Centre Appeal,
launched by the association in 1945 to
raise funds for an RAAF memorial
building. Since then, the fund has
reached about £69,000 and the Air
Force Association wants to get its
hands on most of it to buy a new
building. The association is under
notice to quit its present rented
premises in George Street, opposite
Wynyard.
But the five trustees of the fund—
including three former presidents of
the association —are not playing. They
claim that the deeds of the trust pro-
hibit them from handing over the
money. Some of them feel that it
would be a waste of money to buy a
building for an association which
must die unless there is another war
pretty soon. They’d rather have a
“lasting” memorial —a sort of Sydney
Arc de Triomphe. Finally, some of the
trustees are dead against a building
that would house a “booze-and-poker-
machines club.” The trustee who
coined this phrase, former Australian
Flying Corps Squadron-Leader George
Mills, brought the wrath of the exist-
ing Air Force club on his head. He
was cited to appear before the club
committee this week for a severe
knuckle-rapping.
Also involved in the flak is another
trustee, former association president
Group Captain John Waddy, who was
severely embarrassed by the raising of
the issue during his campaign to get
into the NSW Parliament on the
Liberal party ticket at the recent
elections. Although he won his place
in the Legislative Assembly, Waddy
will not easily forgive the association
honorary secretary and club president,
ex-Flight-Lieutenant Ron Levenger,
who started the blitz at such a crucial
time.
With both the fund trustees and the
association seeking legal opinion, it
seems certain that there will be more
engagements before it is decided
whether the £69,000 will be spent on a
“booze-and-poker-machines club” or a
“pigeon roost”, as Levenger describes
the proposed non-functional war
memorial.
O peaking of pigeon roosts, last week
was a pretty hot time in the Syd-
ney Town Hall—favorite haunt of this
city’s nomadic birds. While Ray
Price's Port Jackson Jazz Band was
leading a revival of “trad.” jazz before
2500 foot-tapping enthusiasts in the
main hall, the two Labor factions,
who run the establishment upstairs,
were exchanging some rather heated
words.
Centre of their debate was the
£5675-a-year job of Town Clerk, the
top Local Government post in NSW.
Political boss Alderman Con Wallace
was leading a move for selection of the
council’s committees’ clerk, B. W.
Thomas, for the top job, while his
deadly King’s Cross enemy Aid. Reg
Murphy plumped for the present
deputy, ex-Rugby Union player and
official Jack Luscombe.
A count of heads a few weeks ago
indicated a six-six deadlock in the
council's Labor Caucus, with Lord
Mayor Harry Jensen and another
alderman “fence-sitting.” Some hectic
horse-trading followed and, finally,
Luscombe won the day—ironically, on
the vote of one of Wallace’s staunchest
supporters. It seems that this chap was
a friend of Luscombe’s father some-
where in the dim, distant past. And
old friends apparently stick closer
than political bed-mates when the
chips are down.
Friends, one might say, like the
Greek citizens of Sydney—mostly
milk-bar, restaurant and fish-shop
proprietors—who last week presented
the retiring Deputy Chief Health
Inspector H. R. Byrne with a cheque
in recognition of his “humane and
Christian application of the law.”
Or friends like the cream of Sydney
businessmen who made a similar pre-
sentation —said to be worth about
£3OO0 —to retiring Police Commis-
sioner Colin Delaney.
BLIGH


FORUM
UNTIL YOU GO
PINK IN THE FACE
By DONALD HORNE
JF you \eep up your reading hard enough you find sooner or later that
other people have said practically everything you would have said any-
way; the disappointment comes when they say it better. This happened to
me when l read John P. Roche s piece on “The Yahoos” in last weel(s
Bulletin.
A friend of mine in America had been
sending over a creepy barrage
of letters about the threat from “Right-
wing extremism” and I had no sooner
posted off my reply than I read the
following passage in Roche’s article and
wished to Heaven I had written it in
my letter: “There are a lot of things
that scare me to death —nuclear war,
automobile accidents, lung cancer, to
mention but three but I have only a
limited time to devote to fright. I there-
fore have a scale of priorities on which
the ‘menace from the Right’ ranks 23rd
between fear of being eaten by pi-
ranha fish and fear of college presidents.”
There are a lot of things that scare
me to death but only two of them the
possible victory of world communism
and the possibility of nuclear war —get
an overriding priority on my inter-
national affairs scare list. The possibility
that America will “go fascist” is not on
the list at all. The ratbag Rightists in
America are an unpleasant lot but as
something to be seriously scared of hey
do not rate any priority because they do
not have any kind of political power, or
understand how to get it.
For all I know some of them, as in-
dividuals, may be “as bad as the com-
munists.” I am not an expert in judging
the nature of people’s souls because I
am not God Almighty. The only point
that would interest me here is that to
be concerned with individual moral
judgments rather than with group politi-
cal action can confuse the issue when
you are speaking of threats to freedom.
This confusion is an error often com-
mitted by certain kinds of liberal-minded
intellectuals, along with other kinds of
pure-hearted fundamentalists. They are
concerned with intellectual and moral
purity more than with the effects of
actions, with judgment and denuncia-
tion rather than with political analysis
and action. They may engage in this
kind of thing until they go pink in the
face; but they should not imagine
that they are doing something eke.
As a substantial threat to freedom
America’s ratbag Rightists are nothing
but a large quivering shadow and I see no
special virtue in jumping at shadows—
especially at a shadow that conveniently
covers up a real political threat.
And that is what this particular scare
of “America-going-fascist” does. It
diverts attention from greater problems.
Some of those affected by it may be en-
couraged to downgrade communism on
their scare lists or spend such cam-
paigning time as they have attacking
active anti-communists.
If you apply the policeman's dictum
cui bono? to this the whole scare cam-
paign comes out as a communist plot.
It isn’t. Communists often instigate
this kind of scare campaign or streng-
then it, but if all the local communists
dropped dead tomorrow these scares
might still go on.
r J _ 'HE problem arises because many people
who call themselves liberals do
not have a very well-developed sense of
what freedom looks like; they do not
really know the tang of freedom, they
do not feel it in their bones ; they work
by ritual and rote; they are conformists
of a certain pattern whom a particular
tradition of history has trained to
certain word-responses. And one of
those responses is that freedom is always
threatened from “The Right,” preferably
by ignorant yahoos. (If there are ines-
capable signs of a threat from “The
Left,” it is never from yahoos, but from
misguided idealists.)
These timid and traditionally-minded
liberals live their lives moving down the
grooves of false historical parallels. As
Roche suggests, they make ludicrous
comparisons between Truman’s or Eisen-
hower’s or Kennedy’s America and the
Weimar Republic without making any
of the important contrasts (see an article
of mine in “The Observer” contrasting
Joe McCarthy and Joseph Goebbels).
The most important of these contrasts
is that ratbag Right ism in America con-
sists of nasty big words and nasty little
actions but it does not add up to an
institutionalised threat that is going to
change the nature of American society.
Right-wing political fundamentalism is
an endemic disease in America and ex-
presses many evil prejudices. But it is not
always erupting into plague. And when
it,does erupt the symptoms are not al-
ways the same. And it is never virulent.
However offensive its symptoms may be
it is never connected with real political
power. It is not a killer. American
democracy is too sturdy an animal.
There is now likely to be a long run
of this pest. America’s struggle against
world communism is going to have its
setbacks and its defeats and the funda-
mentalists are going to cry treachery at
every one of them. That is why the head
of the Birch Society thinks that Eisen-
hower and Dulles were communists, that
the Central Intelligence Agency is pro-
communist and that the Government of
the United States is under the operational
control of the American Communist
Party. It makes more sense that way.
The liberals who worry about this
should nevertheless keep their sense of
proportion even though they get rude
phone calls or threatening letters. Some
of us suffer greatly from this kind of
nuisance without worrying about it at
all; but if it worries them can’t they
for goodness sake just fight back?
If they do, they will of course be in
the company of Senator Barry Gold-
water and William Buckley, Jnr. They
will not be happy to admit this because
there is one kind of atrocious un-argu-
ment that one kind of person constantly
employs: you fish out some lunatics who
happen to be anti-communist and lump
them in with all the other active anti-
communists, which then makes the rest
of us lunatics. This piece of dishonesty
is the kind of thing that, if applied to
the communist-socialist-liberal spectrum
makes fair - minded persons complain
about the unscrupulous or stupid anti-
communists who do not distinguish be-
tween pro-communists and anti-com-
munists-who-are-inactive.
Both these distinctions exist, and we
should make them: if it weren’t for the
damned metaphors of “Left” and
“Right” we could all see that the most
fundamental distinction is that existing
between anti-communist socialists, lib-


erals and conservatives on the one hand
and communists, fascists, pro-commu-
nists and proto-fascists (that is to say
supporters of totalitarian tyrannies) on
the other. Despite their differences the
socialists, liberals and conservatives are
all, in different ways and different de-
grees, supporters of freedom and pro-
gress; reaction lies with the communists
and fascists and their hangers-on.
The difference between the commu-
nists and the fascists is that in America
(and even more in Australia) the fascists
to all intents and purposes do not exist.
In both countries the communists not
only exist but are a political force acting
(whether consciously or not) as agents
of hostile foreign powers whose declared
aims are to destroy all of our free in-
stitutions and our free way of life.
Tr is from this background that one
should approach the article in last
week’s Bulletin by Mr Murray
Kempton who deplored the sad fate of
the communists in the USA.
This article was lamentable because
of Kempton's presentation of his case.
For instance, when he says that the
American communists were “never a real
danger to their country” he is evading
some tons of documented material, in-
cluding parts of a book he himself wrote
on the subject. One does not estimate
communist influence by numbers
(although peak US Communist Party
membership was 80,000), but by
the permeation of elites and it is now
hard not to accept the fact that a whole
generation of American intellectuals was
partly permeated by communism, with
important effects in the fields of pub-
licity media, government policy, govern-
ment administration and espionage.
In this context it is extraordinary that
he should lament that official mem-
bership of the party has been reduced.
(With the reticence already noted he
suppresses the possibility of undercover
membership.) He says: “It is hardly
pleasant to think that one’s Govern-
ment has been able to destroy even a
political party as unappetising as this
one." Why is that thought necessarily un-
pleasant?
There are two lines of criticism to
apply to any proposed Government
action against internal communism. The
first is: Will it work? The second is:
Will it do more good than harm?
In answer to the first question it is
often suggested that the best thing to
do with local communists is to ignore
them, otherwise they will go under-
ground and, somehow, become stronger.
The evidence seems the other way.
Even mere threats of unpleasantness
shake off a lot of soft core communists.
(They dropped off in thousands in the
period when the possibility of banning
the party was being discussed in Aus-
tralia.) And the more of these who run
out of the party, the less the commu-
nists can deliberately infiltrate important
parts of society; they have fewer people
to do the infiltrating with.
The more communists are exposed
and thrown out of the institutions they
have permeated the more weak they
become. As a self-contained political
party contesting elections, communists
are harmless ratbags. But they are not
really a political party at all; they are
a conspiracy, a parasitic disease that
gets its life and purpose and its whole
strength by moving into non-communist
institutions and utilising them in the
interests of our external enemies.
For this reason 1 would oppose govern-
ment action in Australia against commu-
nists apart from (a) exposure of them
as communists and exposure of what that
means (b) enforcement of democratic
procedures against them (court-con-
trolled union ballots, for example) and
(c) counter-espionage. Their main
strength in Australia is in some unions
and in some parts of the ALP. And if
the ALP itself would only move against
them and by organisational vigilance
eliminate them the rest of us could
handle what was left of them and harry
them and ridicule them into utter insigni-
ficance—if we can find out who they all
are.
But there is no reason why eliminating
communist influence should be “unpleas-
ant." Elimination in itself is not
necessarily undemocratic and here we
have, on a world view, a case of Eliminate
—or be eliminated.
In South Vietnam communist terror-
ists are being killed, because they are
killing thousands of Vietnamese. To
some people even this is bad policy. In
West Germany 8000 persons have been
gaoled in the last 10 years because they
are communist spies or agents. In the
conditions of West Germany is this bad
policy? In America they are being ex-
posed, labelled, and have lost certain
rights. Is this bad policy?
These are all genuine problems. My
own answer would be that internal
communist parties present a unique
political problem to us to which there
is no other parallel and that we should
take whatever action the situation seems
to demand at particular times but no
more. The Vietnamese should shoot
communists in South Vietnam, the Ger-
mans should gaol them in West Germany
and we should expose them and organise
against them in Australia by democratic
means.
There are two issues involved in the
questions of anti-communism. The
first is the great issue of freedom. If
ratbag Rightists, whatever they say, do
not in fact threaten freedom they need
only to be combated and exposed. But
if there is an institutionalised total threat
to freedom, as there is in world commu-
nism, we must get out the balance,
weigh the threat and perhaps throw
some of the communists’ freedoms Lito
the scales so that our own greater free-
doms may survive.
The second great issue is that of
truth, and without constant concern for
that we became fakes and spruikers.
John Roche's liberal conscience throws
the light of truth on liberal myths and
he comes to unpopular conclusions;
Murray Kempton's liberal conscience
turns shyly back into its own comforting
shadows.


LETTERS
ANOTHER ABC SINNER
Sir,
I freely admit that I’ve refrained from
writing to you earlier because I was a bit
scared . . . no-one with a wife and three
kids wants to take too many risks with a
job which pays well and offers security—
as long as one toes the line and keeps
one’s mouth shut.
It took someone else with the neces-
sary guts to wake me up. The letter, “A
Sinner from the ABC,” (Bulletin,
March 10) is like a breath of air, not
just to me, but to the many, many of us
who would dearly like to take pride in the
organisation for which we work. That
we don’t take this pride is a tragic thing,
attributable in the main to the ABC’s
attitude towards its employees, and most
especially towards those of us who are
supposed to be skilled in our profession,
but who are treated as though these skills
are the least important thing in the
industry.
Professionalism is largely frowned on
by our masters: mediocrity is the desir-
able standard ; ideas exist to be squashed
—unless they come from On High or
from the friend of Someone Up There.
Training in programme work, in the
writing of scripts, in world-standard pro-
duction is virtually non-existent, and
there’s entirely too much of the amateur
attitude which says, “Here’s a space, let’s
think of a title and put it in.” Beyond
that, the planning, organising and actual
presentation of material is left to the
middle echelon of people who know the
work from practical experience, and who
have to struggle against the lack of
practical knowledge from above.
Look at some of the anomalies—the
ABC is against the establishment of
Personalities, so we have Russ Tyson and
Michael Charlton built up as personali-
ties ; the ABC is supposed to be impartial
and objective in its outlook, and (for
once) stood up for this in deciding to
screen “The Candidates,” then about-
faced and took Dick Healey off the air to
satisfy a political objection; the ABC
is a national broadcasting organisation,
yet it does little, if anything, to foster
a national outlook in its programmes,
and indeed, the bickering and rivalry
between the States and the suspicion of
Head Office is rife.
There is a prejudice at the top level
against incurring expense through shoot-
ing film, so that the News Department is
frequently limited to no more than thirty
seconds of film on any one news story,
and other departments are restricted from
making films . .. this is particularly so in
the case of the Talks Department which
has people capable of making film pro-
grammes, but which has to drop them, or
let the Film Department take the thing
over. And this in an industry which
depends so much on film! We now have
videotape— -at last—but, as yet, no means
of editing the tape electronically, so we
are told that it’s too dear to think of
editing by cutting, therefore we don't
edit, therefore little if any videotape!
It would seem that the line of thinking
behind any new programme idea is (1)
How much will it cost? (2) Will it offend
either of the political powers? (3) Has
it been done before? (Because if it hasn’t,
it might be too dangerous to try it) (4)
Which Department (for “Department”
read “Empire”) can handle it? (5) Can we
pass it to someone from outside? (For
more money than it would cost to let
one of our Staff people do it) (6) Is it a
good programme? Sometimes this last
can be left off the list entirely.
Without attempting to rail against our
lunatic salary setup, it’s pertinent to point
out that there are skilled officers being
paid reasonable salaries and holding
middle-level and semi-senior jobs who are
so busy at desk work and form-filling
that they cannot undertake the active
duties in which they are expert. To com-
pensate for this, freelances are engaged,
many of them ex-employees who can
earn more from the outside. This boils
down to paying more overall for out-
siders, plus an insufficient number of
insiders, than it would cost to increase
the staff —but, of course, this argues a
desire to spend wisely, rather than well.
It would be a delight to those of us pro-
fessionally engaged in broadcasting and
television to work for an organisation
which believed in quality of output,
sufficient people to do the job properly,
adequate training for new staff and
refresher courses for old hands, incentive
for staff officers to undertake more than
standard routine duties, a more realistic
view of payment for skills and a sincere
interest in entertainment as an industry
rather than bureaucracy as a vocation.
Another under the Crimes Act,
(Name and address withheld by request)
A WAY OUT
Sir,
Congratulations to The Bulletin on
the “Plain English” article “A Way Out”
in the issue of February 17 (page 17).
This is the most realistic and correct
summing up of the predicament confront-
ing the ALP in its industrial and political
wings that I have been privileged to read.
Mr Laurie Short is correct in his state-
ment that communist influence through-
out Australian trade unions could be
destroyed within five years provided
there were determined organisation and
leadership by the Labor party.
However, in future, let the State ALP
executive rigidly control the Industrial
Groups actions in opposing communists in
trade union elections. If any errors of
tactics, etc, occur, the Groups’ elected
leaders should be summoned to appear
before the ALP executive for discipline.
The organisation should not have been
disbanded after the notorious 1954
Hobart ALP Federal conference thus
bringing about the disastrous split in the
Labor party which still has not been
healed. Organised ALP anti-communist
party members are still the best people to
defeat organised communists. They can
and will do the job I believe if officially
endorsed and approved once again by
their own State party executives.
F. A. KERWAN
Wagga (NSW)
THE SURVEY
Sir,
In The Bulletin of March 3, on page
10, you say “An American resident
filled in the questionnaire and four Asian
students.”
Whatever had the students done to the
American resident?
F. H. WILLSON
North Adelaide (SA)
AMY WOODFORD-FINDEN
GO HOME!
Sir,
As an Australian living in the foot-
hills of the Northern Himalayas for two
years, and as one who has spent some
time in Kashmir recently, may I correct
the following factual errors made in the
article “Amy Woodford-Finden, Go
Home!”
1. Kashmir is in the Himalayas, not in
the foothills.
2. The Shalimar Gardens are pleasure
gardens, and, as such, cannot be com-
pared with botanical gardens of any
class.
3. The British had nothing to do with
the “opening up” of the Shalimar Gar-
dens—they were designed and built 400
years ago by the Mogul kings.
4. Kashmir is not a “perfectly
ordinary valley”—it is believed to have
once been a vast mountain lake—and
geologically and geographically it is a
source of great interest.
5. The people of Kashmir are proud
to be a “part of the Indian” nation. I
have a large number of Kashmiri friends
(more than two or three), and all of them
have at one time or another spontane-
ously stated their patriotic feelings to-
wards India.
6. The British did not “sell” Kashmir
as a tourist centre. It was a much-
visited country during the Mogul reign,
long before the British came to India.
Its natural beauty is so great that no
outside influence is needed to “sell” it.
7. There is a most satisfactory train
service from Delhi to Pathankote, from
where you may fly to Srinagar. If Mr
White could afford only third-class
travel it is hardly correct for him to
give the impression that it is the only
means of travel.
The impression the article creates
on the mind of the reader is as false as
the impression created by the comments
upon Kashmir.
PAMELA JOAN BRESLIN
Dehra Dun, UP, India


The Wild
Cat Pages
THE COMMON MARKET
Mr. McEWEN IN WASHINGTON
FINANCE BUSINESS ECONOMIC COMMENT INVESTMENT OIL AND MINING
T AST week in VVasmngion rnr iVicEwen,
the able, ambitious and astute
Minister for Trade, had to fight tooth
and nail for the future of Australia’s
primary exports. He did well.
Although most of the talks were secret,
it is clear that Mr McEwen was trying
to get the Americans to use their political
influence in Brussels, Bonn, Paris and
Rome, and force the European Common
Market bloc to give some definite con-
cessions to Australian primary exporters.
He also tried to talk the United States
into liberalising its tariff policy on such
basic Australian export p r oducts as wool
and lead.
Both tasks were difficult, but not
£ ’together hopeless. President Kennedy’s
energetic efforts to force a reluctant
Congress to invest him with sweeping
tariff powers give some hope that trade
barriers to our exports to the United
States may be reduced.
Of course, President Kennedy’s in-
sistence on tariff powers —in the face of
widespread opposition—has stemmed
from his realisation that the United States
must come to terms with the European
Economic Community while its political
influence in Western Europe i still de-
cisive. Today NATO, in which Washing-
ton plays the dominant role, is Western
Europe’s only effective shield against
the Kremlin. In another few years some
Western European eaders may feel
powerful enough economically to try to
“go it alone” politically, but now the
EEC still seems to be quite prepared to
make important economic concessions
to Washington. Moreover, the Common
Market bloc seems to feel that the
main thing for the moment is to get the
Americans away from their traditional
protectionist mentality. Any breach in
the US tariff wall would allow a wider
penetration of the vast American market
by West European exporters, who enjoy
the advantage of a substantially lower
cost structure. The recent tariff agree-
ment between America and 24 other
countries —involving £535.7m. US im-
ports and £7l4m. US exports —is very
favorable to the United States. Aus-
tralia must keep on trying to persuade
Washington to extend its tariff liberalisa-
tion —brought about by the need for a
long-term agreement with the Common
Market—to some Australian exports.
Mr McEwen has also tried to con-
vince the Americans that supporting
Australia’s efforts for a foothold within
the Common Market would be in
America’s enlightened self-interest.
A glance at the latest overseas trade
figures—with the communist bloc taking
some £s6m. of Australian goods in the
last seven months, against £sm. in sales —
should help to persuade Washington that
there is a stong case for the United
States to revise its attitude to Australian
exports.
The joint statement by President
Kennedy and Mr McEwen that “an
economically strong and developing Aus-
tralia is essential..seems to indicate
that Washington begins to understand
some of our problems.
THE UNITED KINGDOM
HOW COURTAULDS BEAT I.C.I.
"Mow that it is over there comes the final
reckoning of the cost of the 1.C.1.-
Courtaulds battle, particularly for
Courtaulds, who in three months have
spent some £5tg.250,000 on keeping 1.C.1.
out. This includes advertising, bankers’
fees, printing bills, direct mailing to
shareholders and other costs.
Advertising has been the larged single
item. Soon after the bid was announced
in mid-December Courtaulds appro-
priated £stg. 130,000 for prestige advertis-
ing in the Press.
1.C.1. have spent perhaps £stg. 120,000
on legal advertising of actual offers,
circularising shareholders (Courtaulds’
150,000 twice and their own 250,000
once), the publication of a small booklet,
printing costs and bankers’ fees.
For Courtaulds the investment has been
worthwhile. But from the management
viewpoint, both sides have some thorny
points to iron out.
One problem is 1.C.1.’s representation,
if any, on the Courtaulds’ board. To date
1.C.1. have a 36 per cent, holding in
Courtaulds, but they do not have any
legal right to representation, although
with a substantial holding it is customary
for a company’s interests to be given a
voice. In Courtaulds’ circles there is an
air of subdued triumph over Mr Paul
Chambers —the I.C.T. chairman —who,
they feel, has conducted the bid as a one-
man operation, dragging his directors
with him.
Meanwhile Courtaulds can be thankful
that their interests have largely been pro-
tected by shareholders of a traditional
class who have refused to accept the
1.C.1. offer. Many of them have inherited
their Courtaulds’ holdings and either for
sentimental reasons or through inertia
have not accepted.
These shareholders in turn can be
grateful to Mr Chambers. Before the
battle started their shares stood at a few
pence above stg.3os. ; today they stand
at stg.sls. 3d., for shares whose holders
have not accepted.
Mr Chambers incidentally unlocked
Courtaulds’ money and committed the
company to dividend forecasts which, if
they are fulfilled, make Courtaulds’
shares, in the view of many brokers,
cheap at the price.
With less than 38 p.c. of Courtaulds
shareholders accepting the 1.C.1. offer the
bid has now been called off. Courtaulds
triumphantly survives as an independent
concern to the delight of its supporters on
both sides of the Iron Curtain.


IP
K
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS, £893,311.
TANGIBLE ASSETS, £3,075,026,
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
WITH RIGHT OF RECALL
ON 30 DAYS’ NOTICE
3 months . . . . 5V2% p.a.
6 months .... 6% p.a.
9 months .... % p. a .
AND OVER
APPLICATIONS must be made
on the form enclosed with the
prospectus, which is obtainable
from
Members of the Stock Exchange
ANY BRANCH OF A.N.Z. BANK
The Registered Office of the Com-
pany, William & Crown Sts.,
Sydney. Telephone FA 0322.
Financing world-
famous products
distributed by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies.
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
in Queensland
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
in Queensland
LISTER
Engines
GROUP SALES
YEAR ENDED
30-6-61
£12.857,865
•••••••MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 1/11/61, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
WEST GERMANY
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AID IN 1962
HThe Federal Republic of Germany can
look back on five years of steadily
growing assistance to underdeveloped
countries. Disregarding for the moment
payments to Israel and various measures
in connection with the export drive which
also benefited developing countries, the
origin of West German development
assistance may be traced to a small tech-
nical reserve fund in the Ministry for
Foreign Affairs, the ERP funds and
the Ministry for Economic Affairs.
Since this modest beginning a great
stride forward has been made in this field.
Total disbursements under develop-
ment aid schemes since 1950 amount to
nearly DM2O,OOOm. This figure includes
considerable private expenditure plus
special payments to Israel. During the
last 12 months West Germany earmarked
DM55OOm. for economic assistance.
Technical aid in 1961 cost West Ger-
many DM6OOm.
Within the framework of its aid to
developing countries, the German
Federal Republic sent 600 special-
ists abroad, 5000 foreign trainees
were given on-the-job instruction in
German firms and 900 foreign students
granted scholarships.
Within the framework of approxi-
mately DM55OOm. in capital assistance
to underdeveloped countries, 13 African
countries received 16 promises of assist-
ance, three South American countries
three such promises and eight Asian
countries nine. Five European countries
were given six assistance pledges. In
general, assistance has been promised for
the financing of individual projects such
as dams, power stations, municipal
utilities, roads, factories and development
bank funds such as the loan of
DM 1000 m. by the West German Federal
Bank to the World Bank.
Tn his budget for 1962, the West Ger-
A man Federal Minister for Economic
Affairs has again earmarked about
DM35OOm. for bilateral and multilateral
assistance. Of this DM25OOm. will come
from the Federal budget and DM9oom.
from the ERP Fund. In addition,
authority has been given to “undertake
commitments'’ amounting to DM233m.
Apart from the funds of the Federal
Loan Corporation for Reconstruction,
DM2OOm. is earmarked for extra-
budgetary expenditure to meet promises
of capital assistance. Further sums
will be spent on “formation assistance”,
considered to be independent of general
technical assistance, on contributions
to the development fund of the
European Economic Community or paid
into the World Bank and other organis-
ations.
For reasons of political principle no
attempt will be made in 1962 to attach
supplier strings to capital assistance.
Past experience has shown that, where
the granting of assistance is done in a
frank and rational manner, relatively
large sums find their way back to the
Federal Republic. In order to ensure that
the German taxpayers’ money is put to
good use, in developing countries, it might
perhaps be a good idea if future planning
and invitations to submit tenders were
handled or at least prepared by German
experts more so than in the past. The
augmented technical assistance will also
have to be better adapted to the indi-
vidual problems of developing countries


Another “Wales” Service
omits
Save time, save travelling,
save money open a
“Wales” cheque account.
Pay your bills the safe way
and have a permanent
record of all your money
matters.
You can have your
name printed on your
cheques. Enquire at any
Branch about this “per-
sonalized cheques” service.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(incorporated in new south wales with limited liability)
A6IIBC
than hitherto. The questions of individual
approach, education and training will
have to be given special attention.
As 1962 is unlikely to see any changes
in West German taxation laws the main
task in the coming months will be to
promote private investment, especially
on a partnership basis, through better
credit facilities. An encouraging step
is the recent formation of the new Fed-
eral Ministry for Economic Co-operation
and the creation of a special committee
to discuss the problems of economic
development assistance.
/"Aur existence in the years ahead may
on the development aid we are
now bestowing. Not until the future will
we know whether or not we are acting
correctly—not until a few decades have
passed and the world’s population
numbers some six or seven thousand
millions and our fate is linked more
closely than ever with that of other
peoples and continents.
DR GERHARD FRITZ
Bonn, West Germany
FRANCE
BETWEEN
TWO SOUS
'T'he French Government has decided
* on a psychological campaign to
popularise the two-year-old, but still
neglected, heavy Gaullist franc.
Mr Valery Giscard d’Estaing. one
of the youngest Finance Ministers
France has ever had, is determined to
wash French brains of the habit of think-
ing in “old francs.” Theoretically, the
change was made on January 1, 1960,
when the Gaullist currency of grandeur
came into use, exchanging one “new
franc” for 100 old. The common 1000
franc banknote (£2 55.) became worth
10 NF. Shops were obliged to label
articles in both old and new francs,
but cheques had to be made out in NF.
New banknotes were issued with the
same design as the old ones, but two
noughts lighter. The French Mint also
struck a NF coin, and a handsome five
NF piece which everyone in the country
immediately began to hoard in piggy
banks.
Otherwise, foreign tourists have been
almost alone in adopting the new cur-
rency, which aimed at giving the French
franc something like the substance of the
Swiss franc or the West German mark.
But in France, journalists, shopkeepers
and even Cabinet Ministers have created
a state of confusion by slipping, some-
times in the same sentence, from old
francs to new.
Mr d’Estaing has now obtained
Cabinet approval to force the pace,
and hopes by the end of the year
to persuade all Frenchmen to think
exclusively in new francs, to be
known simply as “francs”. To help
things along the mint will bring
out new centime coins.
But this may complicate matters even
further. Successive devaluations did not
eradicate Frenchmen’s affection for the
centime and the “sou” (five centimes)
which has always been the popular word
for “cash”. Middle-aged newspaper-
sellers have for years confounded
tourists by referring to the aluminium
five (old) francs coin as “a hundred sous”.
Today the same coin is in fact worth
only five centimes or one sou.
Frenchmen will no doubt persist in
falling between their two sous, in spite of
all the efforts of their youthful Finance
Minister —and reports from some of
the remote corners of the Fifth Re-
public say that oldest inhabitants still
keep their accounts in golden Louis!


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charier A D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £177,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the economic
growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O’Connell Streets, SYDNEY
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
COMPANY REVIEWS AND NOTES
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO. LTD.
GONE IS THE LETHARGY
Tt took a nearly successful takeover bid
A two years ago to shake the directors
of Adelaide Steamship Co. Ltd out of
a near century of complacency, during
which shareholders were treated as a
painful necessity. But having shaken
off the moribundity, the company has
since shown that it is prepared to face
up to the future realistically.
The Adelaide Steamship Co. Ltd was
originally formed in South Australia in
1875 to operate passenger ships around
the Australian coast. It took on its
present form in 1919. However, until the
“new look” acquired two years ago,
shareholders were given only the barest
details on which to assess the value of
their shares. Parent company accounts
only were presented and these con-
sistently showed profits to be just suf-
ficient to cover dividend requirements —
usually by no more than a few pounds,
while large amounts were sneaked into
reserves. Assets appeared in the books
considerably undervalued.
The company’s shipping operations
are conducted through six subsidiaries—
the parent operates two coastal cargo
vessels and four tugs, Adelaide Steam-
ships (Operations), seven vessels, Coast
Steamships, three motor vessels, while
the three tug companies, Ritch and
Smith Ltd, Waratah Tug and Salvage Co.
Pty, and Wallace Tugs Pty operate 16
vessels between them, although not all
fully owned. Total tonnage of the fleet
is about 29,000 tons.
Last term saw the end of an era on
the Australian coast with the sale of
the company's last passenger vessel,
ni.v. Manoora, to Indonesia.
This was replaced later in the year
by the trailership, m.v. Troubridge, of
about 2000 tons. This vessel is designed
to complement road transport activities
rather than compete with them. It can
carry 40 fully loaded semi-trailers and
tankers on a roll-on-roll-off basis. It
operates between Adelaide, Port Lincoln
and Kangaroo Island.
The company also holds a 49 p.c.
interest in Bulkships Ltd, a company
formed with other shipping interests to
participate in the bulk ore trade. The
first vessel will commence operations
soon.
The shipping industry has always been
an uneasy one due to industrial and
other troubles, and Adelaide Steamship
has bolstered its position with a large
investment portfolio. This includes
holdings in such companies as Coal and
Allied Industries, A.W.A. and North
Australian Cement. It is probable that
the income from these was nearly suf-
ficient to cover the dividend require-
ments, leaving most of the earnings
from shipping to the reserves. Examina-
tion of the accounts prior to 1959 which
show investments at between £500,000
and £750,000, makes this seem unlikely,
but dividends —and disclosed earning
rates —between 1920 and 1958 were
never higher than 7f p.c. and, apart
from 3i p.c. in 1920, did not fall below
4 p.c.—with the average about 6 p.c.
The offer from Sleighs, made in mid-
-1959, brought to light large hidden
reserves —and a consolidated balance
sheet. The offer from Sleighs was five
of its ss. shares for each 20s. Adelaide
share and came very close to success.
However, drastic counter-moves made
by the Adelaide board were just able to
turn the tide. These included a sub-
stantial revaluation of assets (other than
shipping), which lifted freehold assets
from £35,372 to £‘,151,247, investments
from £549,801 to £2,392,277 and shares
in subsidiaries from £315,380 to
£1,022,518.
From the reserve of £3,252,480 thus
created, the company made a one-for-one
bonus and split the 20s. shares into ss.
units. Later in the year it also made an
issue of notes, convertible into ordinary
shares in 1965.
The bonus lifted paid capital from £2.3
million to £4.7 million on which a
dividend of 9 p.c. was paid in 1960 —-
equal to 18 p.c. on pre-bonus capital.
This was not covered by the disclosed
profit of £309,909. The movements in
reserves indicated that profit, including
profit (or loss) on the sale of assets
was about 14.4 p.c. on capital.
Last year saw the company affected
by the credit squeeze—both its shipping
operations and investment income. The
interim was passed and final for the
year was 4 p.c. However, this was covered
by the profit indicated by the movement
in reserves of about £211,7°5. Profit
disclosed by the company was £261,845 :
To
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1959.. 475,188 10 p.e. = 232,513 242,675 3,296,424
Added repair provision, £27,289 . . 3,323,713
Unused provision w/back, £102,301 . . 3,426,014
1960.. 666,331 9 p.c. = 418,524 247,807 3,673,821
Deduct repair provision, £252,046. .. 3,421,775
Unused provision w/back, £161,130.. 3,582,905
Loss on eaie of assets, £359 . . 3,582,546
1961.. 211,795 4 p.c. = 186,011 25,784 3,608,330
Reserves, some tax free, at last balance
date were £3,608,330 compared with the
paid up capital of £4.7 million.
The balance sheet shows a fairly satis-
factory position, although profit was
equal to only about 2\ p.c. on total
shareholders funds. Theoretical work-
ing capital was down from £1,966,308 to
£1,452,082.
Sales of most of Government bonds
released £725,713. This was used to re-
duce dependence on bank finance (down
£45,302 to £1,145,167) and to meet
additional calls on shares held in Bulk-
ships Ltd. The movement in shipping
assets reflects further payments for the
Troubridge and three new tugs:
Adelaide Steamship and Subsidiaries
1959. 1960. 1061
Paid capital .. £2,325,135 £4,650,270 £4,650,270
Reserves . . 3,296,424 3,673,821 3,608’,330
Outside share-
holders .. 192,322 200,178 222.357
Overdraft ... 946,648 1,190,469 1,145,167
Creditors .. 1.195,638 1,198,328 1,487^448
Staff fund 399,673 403,524 414,023
Notes .. .. 581,280 581,280
Final div. .. 174,385 209,262 186,01 L
£8,530,225 £12,107,132 £12,294,916
Freehold, etc. 587,551 1,523,411 1,573,173
Steamers,
plant, etc. .. 5,099,140 6,019,354 6,450,135
Investments . . 592,488 2,489,548 2,592,482
Cash, bonds .. 948,476 911,076 185,363
Debtors . . 880,020 654,689 767,990
Stock, work in
progress . . 417,918 509,054 725,773
Inter-co. adjust. 4,360 —»
Intangibles . . 272 -
£8,530,225 £12,107,132 £12,294,916
Since June liquidity has been
strengthened by the sale of the Manoora
and the disposal of offices in Brisbane,
Sydney and Perth. Net tangible assets


Btl
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT Co. Ltd.
Financier . . Established 1882
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
Interest payable quarterly through the Bank of N.S.W Free of Exchange.
THIS ISSUE HAS BEEN FULLY SUBSCRIBED . . .
OVER SUBSCRIPTIONS NOW BEING ACCEPTED
APPLICATIONS AND PROSPECTUS
Applications will be accepted only on one ol the forms
of application attached to the printed copy of the Pros-
pectus which may be obtained from:
• All branches of the Bank of New South Wales in New
South Wales, Australian Capital Territory, Victoria,
Queensland.
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange, or
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
Head Office: 74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 4521-2-3.
AND BRANCHES
Underwriting Brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
20-22 O’Connell Street, Sydney
84 William Street, Melbourne. 340 Queen Street, Brisbane
BROKERS IN VICTORIA
Clarke & Co., 450 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
BROKERS IN QUEENSLAND
Charles Elliott & Son, 356 Queen St., Brisbane
(Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
BROKERS IN CANBERRA
T. J. Thompson & Sons, C.B.C. Chambers,
Petrie St., Canberra.
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
.
2
PER ANNUM
FOR 5 YEARS
6% for 2 years
for 3 years
7% for 4 years
backing was Bs. lid. for each ss.
share.
Late in 1961 the board showed that
it had shaken off most of the previous
conservatism and embarked on an
expansion programme. It made a cash
offer of just on £1 million for the allied
Melbourne Steamship Co. Ltd, which, if
successful, would have given Adelaide
tug fleets throughout Australia a large
investment portfolio and several engineer-
ing workshops.
However, Howard Smith Ltd took the
prize out from under Adelaide Steam’s
nose mainly because of the large market
premium on its shares.
Results for the current year seem much
better. Shipping activities are showing a
higher return and should improve
further. Income from investments should
also show an improvement over the
sombre 1961 result.
An interim of 3 p.c. has been paid,
indicating an annual rate of 6 p.c. On
this basis, the shares, selling at 7s. 10d.,
give a dividend yield of about 3.8 p.c.
CEMAC ASSOCIATED LTD
EXPANSION CONTINUES
/"''emac Associated Ltd is a contractor,
manufacturer and importer, distri-
butor of plywoods, veneers, etc. From
the outset the company experienced
buoyant growth and developed expan-
sionary tendencies.
Since conversion to public status in
1956, Cemac Associated operates through
Cemac Pty Ltd and its subsidiaries —
Cemac Modular Constructions Ltd,
Cemac (Timber) Pty Ltd, Cemac Rose-
bery Pty Ltd, Rosebery Veneer Co.
Pty Ltd, Rosemac Pty Ltd, Veneer and
Plywood Pty Ltd, and Boa Construction
Pty Ltd.
The latest acquisitions were Cumming
Henderson & Co. Pty Ltd, and Cumming
Henderson (Distributors) Pty Ltd, estab-
lished as importers and exporters of
veneer for more than twenty years. These
subsidiaries would be the largest im-
porters of veneers in this country,
accounting for more than 50 p.c. of
veneer imports.
To finance the latest acquisitions
220,000 stock units were placed at 11s. 6d.
per stock unit.
Operations in Melbourne were further
expanded during the year, in the distri-
bution of plywood and in the partitioning
field. Overseas licence arrangements
have been made with contracts in UK,
Africa and New Zealand, without any
capital outlay or financial commitments
by the Cemac Associated group.
Additional equipment has been in-
stalled in the group’s veneer mill at
Wauchope (NSW) to increase pro-
duction. This mill would be the largest
miller of native softwood logs in NSW.
Due to the availability of better
quality veneer supplies, the group has
discontinued operations at its veneer
mills in Northern Queensland during the
year. These mills were then sold and the
losses on discontinuing operations and
sale were charged against earnings for the
year to June 30, 1961.
Aggregate turnover —excluding sales
between companies in the group—totalled
£3,291,470 (up £1,085,694).
Consolidated net profit for the year
ended June 30, 1961, rose by £6884 to
£80,177, after providing £75,731 for tax
(up £8356) and writing off £38,233 de-
preciation and amortisation. This was
equivalent to 22.5 p.c. on the higher
paid-up capital, compared with 29.26 p.c.
in 1960, 27.52 p.c. in 1959 and 27.52 p.c.
in 1958:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June Profit. Dividend. serves, serves.*
30. £ £ £ £
1959.. 45,734 12J p.c. = 20,774 24,960 104,334
Share premiums, £134,818 .. .. 239,152
Increase intangibles, £30,725 . . 208,427
1960.. 73,293 121 p.c. = 31,308 41,985 250,412
Share premiums, £21,409 .. .. 271,821
1961.. 80,177 121 p.c. = 44,444 35,733 307,554
* Subject to intangibles, £76,245 at 30/6/’6l.
Pre-acquisition profits were excluded.
Ordinary dividend rate was steady at
p.c. on higher capital, absorbing
£44,000. Reserves benefited by £35,733,
and also £21,409 share premiums.
Early in the year a bonus issue on the
basis of one-for-five held was made from
the share premium reserve. This, with
the shares issued as purchase con-
sideration, lifted paid capital to £355,551.
Since its incorporation in 1956 the co.
made cash or bonus issues every second
year.
Outside interest increased from £246 to
£5987. Mortgages rose by £43,123.


' V,
! -
<#**
You’ll get a
secure
P.A. for 8 and 10 years
REID MURRAY
REG. FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
“...and you’ll
save 10% on
purchases at any
Reid Murray Store
All told there are 174 Retail Stores in
the Reid Murray Group throughout
Australia, where you can save 10%.
And your investment —which can be
surprisingly modest can return you
up to 9% p.a. and will be guaranteed
by Reid Murray Holdings Limited.
Applications accepted only on forms at-
tached to the Prospectus. Available from:
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 1924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member o» a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melb.
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William Street, Adelaide
Members of Stock Exch. of Adelaide Ltd.
PAID UP CAPITAL £7,000,000
FIXED LONG TERM STOCK
9%
P.A. 8 & 10 years
P.A 5 years
8%
P.A 3 years
7*4%
SHORT TERM
P.A 2 years
NOTICE STOCK
P.A.— on 12
months' notice
6%
P.A. on 6
months' notice
510
P.A. on 3
months' notice
4fo
P.A. at call
RMA.tONA?
GUARANTEED BY REID MURRAY HOLDINGS LTD.
Bank overdraft decreased by £70,262 to
£129,588. Creditors were at an all-time
high at £478,834 (up £116,519):
1959. 1960. 1961
Paid Capital .. £166,199 £250,460 £355,551
Reserves . . 104,334 250,412 307,554
Outside interest 246 5,957
Mortgages, etc. . . 57,240 101,065 144,188
Overdraft . . 85,744 199,850 129,588
Creditors . . 133,036 362,315 478,834
Tax provision . . 31,275 67,480 80,949
Final dividend . . 10,387 15,654 22,222
£588,215 £1,247,482 £1,524,873
Freeholds . . 102,677 180,357 232,025
Leaseholds .. 2,229 50,801 42,374
Plant, etc. .. 73,520 , 157,526 208,022
Shares '. . .. 88 1,358 13,539
Stock .. .. 178,846 274,786 427,211
Debtors .. 221,673 538,188 515,637
Intangibles .. 2,391 37,19.8 76,24.)
Cash. etc. .. 6,791 7,268 9.520
£588,215 £1,247,482 £1,524,873
Freeholds rose by £51,668 to £232,025.
Leaseholds decreased by £8427 to
£42,374. Plant, machinery, etc., increased
to £208,022 (up £50,496). Shares in other
companies were shown at £13,539 (up
£12,181). Stocks on hand stood at
£427,211 (up £152,425). Debtors decreased
by £22,551 to £538,188.
The future looks promising, but the
company’s prospects are tied to the un-
predictable building industry.
However, Cemac has the advantage of
certain diversification both in products
and its market geography.
Shares are now listed in Sydney, Mel-
bourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and New-
castle.
At the last sale in Sydney the ss. ords.
changed hands at 13s. 6d. a unit. The
immediate yield was 4.6 p.c. based on the
steady 12y p.c. dividend rate. Net tan-
gible asset backing works out at 7s. lOd.
for each ss. ord. unit.
BRAMBLES IND. LTD
TAKEOVER
Orambles Industries Ltd, the vigorous
Sydney-registered road transport, ship-
ping and engineering co., customs agent,
removalist and storer with wide inter-
state ramifications, has acquired the old-
established rock excavation business of
A. Bradshaw (Excavations) Pty Ltd as
well as Machine Enterprises Pty Ltd and
Bradshaw’s De-Watering Pty Ltd. The
new subsidiaries were acquired for an
undisclosed cash payment.
The whole activity of the newly
acquired group will be centred around
A. Bradshaw (Excavations) Pty Ltd. Mr
E. R. Bradshaw will continue as general
manager and a director of the subsidiary.
Brambles’ board has indicated that it
“envisaged no changes in the present
policy, management and staff . .
Present contracts held by A. Bradshaw
(Excavations) Pty Ltd are said to exceed
£300,000.


m
m
m
■/ /
as®
<> ' * ;
mm
■f s
f
fSk
A
C. B. C. services are just
what you want
C.B.C. services are designed to help enterprising men
make a success of their undertakings.
If, for example, you are seeking new markets, the
C.B.C. will give you every possible assistance including
trade information and introductions.
Normal banking transactions are handled promptly
and efficiently. Machines speed up the work —but the
service is essentially personal and friendly.
There are many other ways in
which the bank’s services can help you
and lighten your work. The manager
of your nearest branch will gladly tell
you about them.
THE
if
<32*
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
OIL
WESTGROVE No. 1
A ssociated Australian Oilfields
N.L. and its associated companies
report that Westgrove No. 1 well has
reached a depth of 3558 feet. Core 6 of
the interval 3548 to 3558 feet recovered
medium to coarse grained sandstone with
good fluorescence and a petroliferous
odor. A drill stem test of the interval
3546 to 3558 feet produced a small flow
of gas and 3100 feet of salt water was
recovered in the drill pipe. The well is
drilling ahead.
BORAL AND H. C. SLEIGH
MERGER
A lthough the formal announcement of
the impending merger between Bitu-
men and Oil Refineries (Aust.) Ltd —
popularly known as Boral —and H. C.
Sleigh Ltd has made relatively little
immediate impact on the sharemarket,
this move may be one of the most sig-
nificant amalgamations in Australia’s
recent economic history.
Ironically, Caltex, which was largely
responsible for the initial formation of
Boral and once held a 40 p c. interest m
the company, and which also acquired
10 million Is.-paid shares in H. C. Sleigh,
will probably see its influence dwindle.
The share exchange, through which the
merger is expected to be effected, will
reduce Caltex's holding in the Boraf-
Sleigh group to a rather small minority ;
but Caltex will still retain its contracts
with Boral and H. C. Sleigh.
The directors of Boral and H. C. Sleigh
have pointed out that the two groups are
largely complementary. The joint empire
will have at its disposal a good network
of sea transport, marin- terminals, bulk
depots and service stations throughout
Australia plus a popular national brand
namu Boral will bring in its modern
o refineries, with their catalytic crack-
ing and platformer units, producing a
complete range of petroleum products at
Matraville (near Sydney) and Brisbane.
In addition, or, has a majority (55
p.c.) interest in Petrochemical Holdings
Ltd, which turns out an entire range of
olefines, unsaturates and aromatics, thus
covering almost all the raw material re-
quirements of the petrochemicals indus-
try. Some of th subsidiary’s products
are also used by Hardie Rubier Co. Pty
Ltd, wholly owned by H. C. Sleigh. This
adds to the advantages of certain diver-
sification already enjoyed by H. C. Sleigh.
The move is timely, as Australia is on
the \erge of a great struggle in the petrol-
retailing field. Powerful udependent
American interests are poised for battle
against the world oil giants entrenched on
the Australian market. ’low a strong
Australian group appears on the scene,
in addition to the Ampol group. This is
rather encouraging.
The basic product—crude oil —will still
have to come from the great oil con-
cerns. But the disco- ery of oil in com-
mercial quantities could change all that.
And here Sleigh’s interest in the Asso-
ciated group and Boral’s investment : n
Oil Development—which, between the
two of them, have a very wide network
of oil exploration leases—are particularly
interesting and significant.


A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT. A. C. DRAPER,
N. VV. C. DRAPER
(Members o) Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Eife Building:,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 P.O. BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Delfin House,
16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building,
150 Queen St., Melbourne,
67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables:
“Rosdale,” Sydney, Melbourne
or Wollongong.
John N. Robertson, Thompson
and Co.
Members of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS,
Temple Court, 423 Little Collins St.,
Melbourne, C.l.
Telephones: 67 6154, 67 6155
Telegrams and Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
STOCK OPTIONS
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
Suite 1, Sixth Floor, Temple Court
422 Collins Street, Melbourne
Phone 67-8011
BRANCH OFFICES
SYDNEY: 383 George Street, 29-7865
ADELAIDE: 61 Gawler PL, 7-8407
BRISBANE: 334 Queen Street, 31-1621
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS
ALL OFFICES— “OPTIONS”
Write or Phone for Free Brochure
and Current Price Schedule.
FOR CALL OPTIONS
CALL STOCK OPTIONS
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your
fancy write to the Manager, who will
quote you a price for the original.
SPECULATOR'S DIARY
Monday, March 19
TftT'HEN the market is going up we’re all
full of enthusiasm: when it’s going
down we tend to lose interest. Certainly
there hasn’t been much in the market the
last week or two to fire one’s enthusiasm.
Admittedly Beau Monde and O’Donnell
Griffin produced encouraging interim
reports and Hunter Douglas shares and
notes continued on their merry way up-
wards. But otherwise it was a pretty
bleak week.
In times like these brokers are apt to
become bankrupt of ideas and fall back
on old faithfuls like B.H.P. But what do
you do when you buy B.H.P. and even
it goes down? Sometimes, as a last
resort, brokers advise you to try your
luck in the rights’ market. But I’d already
bought Kandos, and it had, thanks to a
good deal of publicity, 'improved a
shilling or two.
One new issue that had tempted me
the week before finally got me in last
week. And that was A.O.G. The previ-
ous week, you might remember, I toyed
with the idea of buying A.O.G. but
couldn’t quite pluck up the courage. But
last week I did. What changed my mind
was the way A.O.G. began to firm at a
time when the rest of the oil and indus-
trial market seemed pretty sick. I was
attracted purely by the technical situa-
tion, and, like most other oil investors, I
paid no heed whatever to the real worth
of the shares. But A.O.G. had held fairly
steady around £5 15s. for a week or two
and the books were about to close for a
one-for-two issue at 15s. a share. This
gave the shares a theoretical ex-rights
value of somewhere about £4. I had a
hunch that a lot more people would be
prepared to pay £4 ex-rights for A.O.G.
than they would £5 15s. cum rights. The
doubts I had about this were finally
removed when the price began to more
up last Tuesday. I bought 50 next morn-
ing at £5 18s., thereby demonstrating
the right of all speculators to change their
mind at a moment’s notice. A.O.G. was
quoted ex-rights for the first time today
(Monday), so I’ll soon see if my theory
is correct.
There was another interesting situa-
tion in the rights’ market last week, and
that was in Peters. This company has
expanded probably faster than any other
company in the last year or so with take-
overs of Four ’N’ Twenty Pies, Holden-
son and Nielson, Gordon Edgell and
Grocery and General. In addition,
Peters has just made a bonus is:v.e and
is now in the midst of a cash issue. Now
if a string of takeovers followed by bonus
and cash issues doesn’t flood the market
with scrip, and hence weaken the share
price, nothing will. The real test should
have come last week when Peters finally
managed to get out entitlement notices
to its shareholders, nearly four weeks
after rights’ trading began. When the
shares and the rights continued to hold
their pretty high ground I decided it was
time to change my mind about Peters,
too. So I bought 500 shares at Bs. 2d.,
simply because I expect the price to firm
once this issue is completed.
My other purchase this week required
me to look lung cancer in the eye, or at
least the U.K. Royal College of Physi-
cians. As a non-smoker I wasn’t particu-
larly perturbed at the report on smoking,
but I did think the market dealt rather
harshly with Philip Morris when it
knocked the price down to 265., 7s. below
last month’s peak level. In the past
warnings about lung cancer have had
much more impact on the share market
than on the consumption of cigarettes,
and this will probably be the case again
this time. Besides, Philip Morris has just
produced a good interim report and
raised the dividend rate from 6 p.c. to
8 p.c.
Just when I needed some money to
pay for these three purchases Fibre Con-
tainers obligingly took a lift in price to
19s. 3d. I felt it would be a wise pre-
caution to take a modest profit of £3l
on half of my substantial holding just
in case the new dividend rate is net up
to expectations (10 p.c. or maybe
p.c.) or in the event that no new take-
over bid materialises. I was also able
to raise another £248 (including £73
profit) on my remaining 200 Shipping
Newspapers, which touched 245. 9d.
during the week.
SOLD
500 Fibre Containers 2t 19/3 .. £474
200 Shipping News at 24/9 .. £248
BOUGHT
50 A.O.G. at 118/- .. .. £3OO
500 Peters at 8/2 .. .. £2lO
100 Philip Morris at 26/- .. £133
The week’s business gave me a profit
of £lO4 and left me with £47 in cash
and these shares: —
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
300 Hornibrook 4/3/61 23/- 29/6
400 O’Donnell
Griffin 28/8/61 11/8 14/9
800 Southgate 6/11/61 8/6 8/6
1,000 United Motels 20/11/61 3/6 4/5
1,000 Harris Holdings 5/12/61 7/- 9/-
200 Hunter Douglas 7/12/61 26/- 45/-
200 Hunter Douglas
notes 21/2/62 36/- 38/-
200 Beau Monde 8/12/61 25/- 33/-
500 Fibre Con-
tainers 13/12/61 17/6 19/3
400 W. J. Manufac-
turing 24/1/62 11/9 12/-
400 Auto and General
Finance 8/2/62 19/9 23/9
300 Mauri Bros. 16/2/62 22/6 23/-
100 F. W. Williams 20/2/62 36/6 37/-
1,000 Mid-Eastern
rights 22/2/62
200 Penfolds Wines 2/3/62 9/3
400 Anderson Meat 2/3/62 12/- 13/6
100 B.H.P. 8/3/62 64/6 64/6
400 Kandos 9/3/62 21/- 22/6
50 A.O.G. 14/3/62 118/- 87/-
25 A.O.G. rights 73/6
500 Peters 15/3/62 8/2 8/3
100 Philip Morris 16/3/62 26/- 26/-


The most precious thing
we carry...
... PEOPLE!
TRANSPORT MANY DIFFERENT THINGS, much of it
highly prized freight, but the most precious thing we carry will
always be people.
Only people can appreciate the efforts made to make their trip
more pleasant. Only people can form an opinion as to whether they
will use the train, plane, bus or motor car. People can also
influence their neighbours’ opinion about our Railways . . . the
Government Railways . . . the Railways of the people ♦ . .
Last year 254 million passengers paid nearly £23 million in
revenue for rail travel.
This money meant job security for thousands of our employees
thousands of Australians.
The more passengers who use our trains, the more jobs there will be
... for people who build our rolling stock and for people who maintain
and service them, and the stronger and more prosperous our Railways.
&
4/j
9*
q:
GO
C=>
Co
<<;
r>
JO)
NTBS3-
NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT
RAILWAYS
€4+4 /6fV4/ie+<%y /ot*'4(o*cf*‘


REVIEWS
TELEVISION
TOO MUCH TIME ON TURKEYS
HThere were many things wrong with
the first two versions of “The Critics”
this month, but most were the results
of someone’s odd notion that four in-
telligent people can “do” any old book,
play, film, or musical event in ten
minutes flat, or 150 seconds for each
panel member.
In this time the Sydney panel Pearl,
Deamer, Thomas, Harris tried to deal
with Patrick White’s latest novel, a film
and a musical. The Melbourne panel
Battersby, Westbrook, Inglis Moore
and the übiquitous Harris criticked
a Russian film, an Australian novel, and
an Australian musical.
To further irritate the viewers, each
panel agreed that two of its three sub-
jects were hardly worth serious discus-
sion, leaving us to wonder who had
chosen them, and why? The Melbourne
panel tore strips off a musical version
of “The Sentimental Bloke,” which
ended its run at the Comedy Theatre
exactly two nights later. Few people out-
side Melbourne are ever likely to know
what on earth they were talking about.
In the same way, the Sydney panel
wasted ten valuable minutes saying little
for “Little Mary Sunshine,” a musical
which swept in and out of the Palace
Theatre in record time. And for these
“turkeys” the two panels skimped dis-
cussion of Patrick White’s “Riders in the
Chariot,” and the Russian film subtitled,
“A Summer to Remember.”
Shown in all States over Channel 2,
“The Critics” must have a total audience
of at least 100,000 people, most of whom
might have heard of “this Patrick
White,” and that’s about all. Consider
the “might have been,” a half-hour
during which Cyril Pearl was encouraged
by his producer to look the viewer in
the eye and give his thoughts on White’s
purposes, with Max Harris disagreeing
and reading a passage from the book to
make his point (and, incidentally, giv-
ing 100,000 viewers an idea of the
author’s style), and on to anyone else
who had something to contribute, or
back to Pearl if he had more to say.
I, the viewer, would not care if one
to three of any panel remained silent
and sat around looking decorative, while
one to three others who had something
to say were allowed to say it at length.
The notion that it is sufficient to sit
four people together, let them argue
about something for ten minutes, and
call it a “discussion” seems due for re-
vision. Among other things it makes in-
telligent people seem shallow, and is
one reason why many who could be
vital and interesting on panel shows will
not have a bar of this form of tele-
vision appearance.
Another dubious idea is the current
one that it is good television for mem-
bers of panel shows to act as though it
is all purely among themselves, a private
discussion which the owners of sets will
be allowed to see and hear, lucky people!
For much of the Melbourne show we
were treated to noble profiles in close
up, as the panel members talked to one
another with some animation, a con-
dition almost entirely lacking in the
Sydney version, in which the critics were
inclined to 101 l about, hands around
glasses of water, and generally act as
though they had given it all away be-
fore it began.
But at least the Sydney panel was in-
clined to be bluff and direct, whereas
the Melbourne one proved didactic in
spots, produced such regional oddities
as “daycor,” “banaal,” and “jonre’’ for
decor, banal and genre respectively, and
at the other end of the spectrum
occasionally broke out in rashes of
“kind of” and “sort of.”
To sum up, as Mr Harris would say,
“The Critics” need more scope to discuss
suitable subjects at suitable length,
They need more consciousness of the
burning fact that there is going to be
an audience out there when the film is
telecast. Perhaps both panel members
and producers might note a speech by
a Mr Shylock of Venice, who could as
easily have been speaking for television
audiences as for Jewry.
FRAND ROBERTS
THEATRE
FUN OUT OF CANT
Not With Yours Truly. Bill Hannan.
Emerald Hill Theatre. Melbourne.
A Mighty Man Is He. Arthur Kober
and George Oppenheimer. Mel-
bourne Little Theatre.
'T'his musical play has wit, relevance
-*• and vitality. It is not a complete
success in its present form, but it
approaches a kind of success that no
other Australian play yet seen even as-
pires to. Some aspects of Brecht, Behan,
and “West Side Story” come to mind
as remote approximations to the kind
of thing it is. But and this is the
most important thing to say about “Not
With Yours Truly”—its inspiration
comes, not from the theatre, but from
life.
The subject is the espresso bar vice-
racket “scandal” that sold so many
“Heralds” a year or so ago. Obviously
many members of the audience were
astonished and embarrassed by this very
fact. In a way, one cannot blame them
after all, it is only recently that Alan
Seymour was solemnly praised for dar-
ing to write unromantically about Anzac
Day. The convention that the theatre
is an annex of the middle-class living
room is dying hard in Melbourne.
Mr Hannan’s approach to his subject
is irreverent and humane. He pokes
superb fun at fashionable cant. In the
best parts of the play he fills the stage
with abundant life and is here assis-
ted by vigorous production, natural
acting, and the richness of Italian and
Australian folk tunes. Ivan Hutchin-
son’s music, Ailsa Tizard’s dance arrange-
ments, and the stage settings by Jane
Norris and Robin Boyd are all fresh
and pleasing. The play loses life and
interest in its more orthodox moments,
but it is clear that only minor surgery


ABC TALKS
HAS
STAFF VACANCY
The ABC is seeking an experienced officer as News/Talks arranger to be
stationed at ABC headquarters in Sydney. The appointee will work in radio
and television, and the job will be to plan and arrange News Commentary-
type sessions in both media (e.g., in radio the nightly News Commentary
and “News Review,” the lunch time “Notes on the News,” and their
television counterparts), The planning and operation will be on a
national basis.
The duties entail assessing the quality of scripts; improving speakers’
presentational techniques; appearing in person as commentator, interviewer,
or narrator as required; thinking out new ideas for new sessions of
News Commentary-type. In radio, the appointee may be required to
produce such sessions at the microphone; in television, studio production
is handled by a TV producer.
The appointee will be required to deal with correspondence; to maintain
liaison with people and groups likely to be able to contribute to News-Talks
programmes; and to carry out such other duties as may be required
by the Director of Talks.
QUALIFICATIONS: An essential qualification is a wide knowledge of
national and international affairs. Certain aspects of newspaper journalism
could provide a useful background. Educational qualifications should be
preferably, though not essentially, to tertiary level. Experience in radio
and/or television most desirable, though not essential.
Official Designation: Talks Assistant (News): Salary: £2036-2296 inclusive.
Appointment will be to the permanent staff and the successful applicant
will be eligible to join the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund or
Provident Account, subject to successful medical examination.
Applications should be sent to the Director, Administrative Services,
Australian Broadcasting Commission, Box 487, G.P.0., Sydney, by 2.30 p.m.
Friday 6th April, 1962.
is needed to ensure that the whole has
the vitality of the best parts.
.Some of the performances are splendid
George Whaley, Joe Sorbello, Eric
Coladetti and Ailsa Tizard are particu-
larly to be commended. But the most
striking thing about the acting of this
large company is its purity of style. A
few of the players have inadequate tech-
nique, but not one of them is stagey. All
in all, it is a stimulating and exciting
show which gives Wal Cherry’s attractive
and well-equipped new theatre an
excellent start.
“A Mighty Man Is He” is a frivolous
modern comedy from America,
altogether unoriginal and unreal, but
stylish and very well put together.
The Mighty Man of the title is a
wealthy theatrical producer, whose
private life is widely regarded as a model
of propriety. When he is injured in a
car accident, his reigning mistress, his
would-be mistress and his wife stage a
battle of tactics—while his Press-agert
and biographer try to keep it all within
the “family”.
Producer James Inglis has assembled
a difficult play. Tennessee Williams U kes
the best out of them. Joyce Turner has
the plum role, and is vivacious and
charming. Marie Redshaw, Dawn Kling-
berg and Jeffrey Hodgson are all first-
class in fact, the only general fault
in the acting of the company is an
inability to handle the American accent.
John Truscott's set is so good that >.ne
wonders what he could do if given
scope for imagination as well as skill.
JAMES MURPHY
TORMENTED
Orpheus Descending. Tennessee Wil-
liams. Canberra Repertory Society.
'“T'his performance, his first production
J for the Rep. by A 1 Butavicius, was
a sensitive and moving interpretation of
a difficult play. Tennessee Williams takes
his usual location, a squalid corner of
the Deep South, and peoples it with rare
human derelicts, some of them repellent,
some pathetic, but all warped and all
suffering. As usual, he can be relied upon
to make these tormented eccentrics
individual and alive, and to give them
vital and characteristic dialogue. But
whereas in some of his plays, we feel that
these people are too remote in back-
ground, too bizarrely Freudian in soul,
to engage our sympathy, in “Orpheus
Descending,” he has woven his small
town hatreds and frustrations into a
tragedy which really involves us.
It is true that the second act suffered
from some familiar Tennessee Williams’
weaknesses. His series of short scenes is
as disjointed as a film script, and too
similar in mood ; he devises little signifi-
cant action to convey the progress of
relations between Val and Lady. How-
ever, our sympathy with the characters
carries us through, and the last act was
worth waiting for
In what is above all a fine piece of
team-work, it is difficult to give individual
credit. But much of the weight falls on
the main characters, Lady. Val and Carol,
and it was ably borne by Joyce Glynn,
Neil McPherson and Geraldine Taillon.
And much of the impression the play
makes depends on the guitar music of the
unseen Martin Ward. No wonder it
seemed as if a God had descended on
that God-forsaken place.
HOPE HEWITT
SPARKLES LIKE LEAD
The Rape of the Belt. Benn Levy. The
Playhouse. Perth.
'T'his is a frivol. 3 version of the ninth
labor of Hercules describing his
attempts by fair and foul means to
acquire a ceremonial belt from the
Amazons. These ladies are here
portrayed as beautiful, clever and ultra-
feminine, winning battles by refusing to
fight and gaining a reputation for belli-
cosity through sul la propaganda. Their
feminist society drowns all males at birth
excepting the few they keep on a “stvd
farm for procreative purposes.”
The arrival of muscular, masculine
Heracles (Hercules) in this all-girl Garden
of Eden o* a mission which can hardly
be described as friendly, results in a battle
of the sexes that is more funny Can
bloody. It is light satire liberally laced
with corn and needs sparkling production
for complete success.
This production by Raymond Westwcll
was only partially successful. At times it
had about as much sparkle as lead, par-
ticularly in the quasi-serious scenes and
the Olympian asides. At times Ron
Graham’s bombastic Heracles and Brian
Gilmar as Theseus, his romantic, absent-
minded friend, c :ght and carried us
along but their romp was stopped from
really getting under way by scenes that
moved at snail’s pace.
Movement, grouping and lighting were


awkward, sometimes unnecessary and
occasionally downright illogical. The
acting was rather long on sincerity and
short on style. This sort of satire needs
a light heart rather than a heavy hand.
MARY LORD.
ART
STRONG REVIVAL
Sydney Printmakers. Farmer’s Blax-
land Gallery. Sydney.
'T'his second annual exhibition of the
A Sydney Printmakers shows there is no
longer a question of whether there will
be a revival of printmaking in Aus-
tralia for it has already taken place.
However, one serious difficulty, which
has not been by any means resolved,
retards the revival: a lack of study
facilities for students. A glance at the list
of exhibitors here shows that a fair
number learned their craft overseas where
a resurgence of printmaking has taken
place from Tokyo to Paris. The tradit-
ional mediums of etching and engraving
have undergone entirely new and exciting
developments of technique while others
of contemporary invention, acetate
masonite, plaster, silk screen and lino
offer undreamed-of possibilities to
artists from Picasso down. The print, in
fact, more than takes its place beside
painting, for it provides the cheapest
means of obtaining original works of
art which, unlike reproductions, will not
tire.
One distinguishing aspect of this
exhibition comes from the discipline of
print mediums. Earle Bracken, using
several colors in a single printing, pro-
duces a very satisfying group of color
etchings and engravings. His firm com-
mand of the medium enables a careful
selection of shapes to achieve exceptional
clarity. On the other hand, Strom
Gould uses much looser organic forms
laced with unexpected textural accents
in his large group of lithographs and
etchings from several periods. Michael
Nicholson carries his lithographs to a
rare firmness of statement with great
technical dexterity as well as economy of
means.
Further developments are evident in the
works of Eva Kubbos and Henry
Salkauskis whose lino cuts combine
largeness of design with a sense of
urgency. Others working in entirely
different directions to a high degree of
skill and taste, Eileen Mayo, Arthur
Freeman, Sue Buckley and Elizabeth
Rooney to name some, ensure the good
standards of this show. Margaret Preston
and Sydney Nolan have a group of
interesting prints ; the Nolan lithographs
on the Leda theme seem to be the
appropriate size for his interpretation of
the legend.
J. HENSHAW
MUSIC
BAROQUE BOWING
Unaccompanied Bach Recital. Yehudi
Menuhin. Sydney.
TJach’s music for solo violin is one part
of the pre-classical repertory that has
by and large been untouched by the con-
temporary concern for authenticity in
performance of early music. The reason
for this is not that we know little about
violin playing in Bach’s day, but that its
similarities to contemporary violin play-
ing tend to obscure the differences.
Changes in bowing technique allow the
modern player to use more pressure and
hence to get more volume than his 18th-
century counterpart, or to get the same
amount of volume with less effort, and
hence to be able to achieve more delicacy
of phrasing than was once possible.
Changes in the manner of holding the
instrument have given the player’s left
hand greater mobility, and thus made
possible the use of continuous vibrato.
A violinist attempting to play Bach’s
violin music in something like an authen-
tic style should, I think, try to observe
the following norms. Firstly, the de-
mands of the concert hall, to which
modern violins and violin technique are
adapted, should be ignored as far as
possible.
This leads to the second point, which
is that not too much attention should be
paid to phrasing. Phrasing is
as important in baroque music as it is
today, but baroque phrasing—especially
Bach’s—speaks for itself, and the nlayer
only gets in the way if he tries to improve
it. Thirdly, one thing that can make it
easy to be over-attentive to phrasing is
failure to keep the beat going.
These remarks should at least bring
out the fact that modern violinists have
the task ahead of them when they play
Bach, and that good Bach players, that is,
players who can reconcile the conflicting
demands of baroque style on the one
hand and modern technique on the other,
are rare.
Menuhin, however, is such a player.
His style is aristocratic in the best sense
of the word —it is restrained, dignified,
thoughtful and free from idiosyncrasy or
self-assertiveness. He is ideally equipped
to come to grips with the high seriousness
that infuses even the least solemn piece
of Bach, and his recent performance in
the Sydney Town Hall of three of Bach’s
works for soloAuolin was an unqualified
triumph. The programme concluded with
the great D minor partita, and the
audience gave Menuhin no more *han
his due by applauding till the lights were
turned on.
JOHN SAMUEL
FILMS
FLORENTINE IDYLL
Light in the Piazza. Liberty. Sydney.
“TVTo one with a dream should come to
Italy. No matter how dead and
buried it is, in Italy it will rise and
walk.” Olivia de Havilland, as the
mother who has brought her retarded
daughter to Italy, sums up just what has
happened to her in these words, but her
husband does net believe in dreams.
On previous occasions also boys have
been briefly interested in his daughter,
but once they were told the cause of
her innocent charm they disappeared.
According to Daddy, who has just blown
in from Salem, mother is indulging in a
dangerous fantasy by imagining her
daughter can lead a normal life.
Perhaps it would be an impossible
fantasy in the States where there is a big
industry in measuring people’s deviation
from the norms, but in the Italy of
Elizabeth Spencer’s eponymous novel the
girl is received with such affection that
her mother’s dream does come true.
“Light in the Piazza” is rarely
pathetic, but strongly sentimental. In
its way it is near perfect, capturing the
tact of Elizabeth Spencer’s handling of
character and the joyous discovery of
love by the girl, spendidly played by
Yvette Mimieux. The novel’s spare
style gives way to technicolor but, set
as it is mainly in Florence, the resu't is
pleasant.
The film has many delightful touches,
but two shortcomings: Rossano Brazzi,
as the boy’s father, may have kept a
little farther from the De Sica stereo-
type, and the idyllic quality r f the boy-
girl love would have been strengthened
if the director, Guy Green, had allowed
a little more rough and ironic reality to
make itself felt as contrast.
DESMOND O'GRADY


THE RED PAGE
HOW TO SUCCEED IN TELEVISION
BY REALLY TRYING
By ROBERT RAYMOND
September 22, 1955, was an important
day in television. On that day Inde-
pendent Television News, financed
jointly by the commercial companies,
went on the air in Britain, and television,
as a potent force in society, grew up. The
fresh wind that swept through the way
television faces up to the world and its
woes is even beginning to affect us here
in Australia.
Today British TV coverage of news,
opinions, and topical affairs is, for our
taste, better than anything else we see
here in Australia. It is more objective
than the way the Americans go about
things, and more critical than anything
we produce ourselves.
What the BBC did before 1955 was
good, in its own way, but it did not fully
reflect the currents of social change in
Britain after the war. It was strong on
coronations, weak on comment. ITN,
although similarly directed by the 1954
Act to present the news “with due
accuracy and impartiality,” added a sense
of enquiry, a boldness, and the revolu-
tionary idea that “balance” of political
opinion could be maintained better over
a series than in individual programmes.
It is significant that most of the serious
programmes for which the BBC is re-
spected did not begin until after ITN, to
everyone’s surprise, hit the BBC in its
own field of news and current events.
“Panorama” did not get into its
stride until ITN was on the air
in 1955. “Tonight”, the nightly round-
up of the day’s news and personalities,
began two years after ITN.
. “Monitor”, the fortnightly BBC pro-
gramme on the arts, did not begin until
1958. And John Freeman's brilliant
“Face to Face” series did not begin until
1959, a year after ITN had run long
interviews with people ranging from
Macmillan and Nixon to Ingrid Berg-
man and Sugar Ray Robinson.
How did commercial television bring
about this invigoration of thought in
Britain, and why hasn’t the same thing
happened nere in Australia? Robin Day
answers the first question in his book*.
Day, originally with ITN and now
with the BBC, is one of the leading prac-
titioners in bringing viewers face to face
with the realities of the world. His fierce,
unsmiling, aggressive search for truth
gets him under the skin of politicians
who feel above approach, and behind
the scenes at party conferences and other
battlefields abroad.
With others like Robert Kee, Ludovic
Kennedy, James Mossman, and John
Morgan, he brings viewers, week after
week, a window on the world that is
sometimes as dull as frosted glass, but
more often than not lets a shaft of light
into some dark or confused corner.
Day is not afraid to ask Adenauer if
he feels too old, Macmillan if he intends
to sack Selwyn Lloyd, Nasser
if he intends to destroy Palestine,
or Sir Kenneth Clark, chairman
of the Independent Television
Authority (Day’s employer at the time)
about that dignitary's duties towards the
viewing public.
At first, Day knew he was considered
hopeless by some of his colleagues at
ITN, because of his face and manner —
both totally unlike the BBC idea of a
popular, audience-winning “personality.”
“But I also knew ” says Day, “that
ITN was not looking for announcer
types. There were to be no announcers
in ITN, only newscasters —television
journalists who were to acquire their
own professional skill and authority.”
TTnlike BBC news “readers,” the ITN
newscasters shared in the gathering,
writing, and presentation of news,
opinion, and comment. They went out
to trouble spots with their cameramen,
fought like reporters to get their coverage,
raced back to London with it, sat in on
the editing, wrote the commentaries, and
then went in front of the cameras and
introduced it with vigor, humanity, and
humor. The effect on the viewers,
tranquillised by decades of BBC dignity,
was electric.
“So unequivocal is Mr Day’s relish for
his job,” wrote one critic, “that he seems
at times to be daring you to contradict
him. He hunches forward, often into
full close-up, narrowing his eyes mean-
ingfully behind glinting spectacles . . .
conducting a filmed interview, he
practically at his man’s lapels ... In
the studio he puts his blunt, loaded
questions with the air of a prosecuting
counsel at a murder trial. As he swings
back to face the cameras, metaphorically
t mwing on his knuckles, one detects the
muffled disturbance as his shaken victim
is led away.”
In that aside on the shaken victim lies
the clue to what makes British television
better than ours. It is not just
the professionalism, the vivid action
film with natural sound, the incisive
interviewing style, the human in-
terest stories, the humor —but the
impulsion to use the power of television
to place in the court of public opinion
the men and the issues most vitally con-
cerned with the life of the - country.
There have, of course, been complaints
of “trial by television.” These provoked
a comment from ”The Times” : “What
needs to be worried about today is not
the protection of individuals or organisa-
tions from the court of public opinion,
but the gradual whittling away of the
area in which that court functions.”
Day suggests that, as far as television
has come in the last few years, its future
now lies in spreading the control of pro-
grammes from the few to the many; in
the selective television of Parliament;
in the introduction of editorial comment
(as is now the practice in the US); in the
abandonment of the debilitating concept
of “impartiality”; in the “fulfilment of
a truly democratic function, which the
Press is in danger of failing to fulfil
effectively: the diverse and independent
expression of free opinion.”
This year in Britain the Government
must begin to think abou. the future of
television and radio.
In Australia we also need constantly
to consider whether our arrangement is
the best for us. Recently in Canberra
there was some debate, and there will be
more. In the meantime we have a long
way to go to make our topical television
programmes as stimulating and as pro-
vocative as those in Britain. Why is
this?
Certainly, lack of money (ITN spends
£2,000 a day on 20 minutes of news).
Probably a fear (exaggerated, I feel
sure) on the part of those making pro-
grammes, of proprietorial displeasure,
public service disapproval, or public out-
cry. Possibly an over-respect for persons
and position quite out of keeping with
our “image” of ourselves, coupled with
a lack of the forthrightness that we
firmly believe is a national characteristic.
Fortunately, there are signs of a new
vigor. The ABC, in particular, is en-
couraging its staff with a growing sense
of function, a willingness to touch con-
tentious and provocative issues.
It is to be hoped that the commercial
channels will compete vigorously and
professionally, as ITN is doing in Britain.
This can only lead to better work by
those responsible for the programmes,
and better service for the viewers.
* Television: A personal report. Robin
Day. Hutchinson. 375. 3d.


NICE FRESH CORPSE
The Break-up of the Habsburg Em-
pire. Z. A. B. Zeman. Oxford Uni-
versity Press. 555. 3d.
“Tf you’ve got a nice fresh corpse, bring
A it out” said Mark Twain and Mr
Zeman obliges with the corpse of the
Habsburg empire. But fresh though it
may be, it is a little difficult to know what
to do with it. Should it be held up for
public inspection or should it be expedited
to the nearest hospital for expert
attention? It is important to ask the ques-
tion : for whom was this book written?
To the average well-bred Englishmen
(and according to Arnold Toynbee this
goes for many professional historians, too)
the Habsburg empire was an amorphous
mess in the middle of Europe ; he has
heard of the perennial troubles in the
Balkans at the beginning of the century,
knows what happened at Sarajevo and
has an uneasy feeling that “Habsburg”
ought to be written with a “p.” It was
all rather tiresome but it is all finished
with now. I imagine that many Aus-
tralians share this view despite the fact
that the presence in this country of many
Eastern Europeans is an indirect but not
too remote consequence of the power-
vacuum created by the collapse of the
Austro-Hungarian empire.
For the more serious student of
Europe, Austria is a problem in ambiva-
lence. On the one hand it was a rather
bad joke, an impossible hotch-potch of
nationalities ; a State which balanced its
budget only twice between 1806 and
1918 ; a country in which, in contrast to
Germany where the situation was always
serious but never desperate, the position
was always desperate and never serious ;
a living anachronism trying to uphold the
dynastic principle and the paternalistic
State in the modern world, a last home
of the sentimental romanticism which
waltzed its way to destruction.
On the other hand the dying empire
was the scene of the most recent major
development in European culture —one
need only mention the names of poets
like Rilke and Kafka, musicians like
Mahler, R. Strauss and Schoenberg and
thinkers like Freud and Wittgenstein to
recognise that. The Austrian paradox
may be seen most clearly if one thinks
of Karl Kraus, a satirist whose great
play, 700 pages long, is filled with the
almost indescribable horrors and follies
accompanying the downfall of this comic-
opera State, a play which, despite this,
is given the seemingly pretentious title
“The Last Days of Mankind” and whose
last words claim that with the death of
the human caricatures who ruled Austria
then, man as we know him passed away.
English historians commonly fail to
give any indication that they have been
able to penetrate the complex mysteries of
this imaginative background to political
events and tend either to produce history
with a marked bias or else to offer the
kind of dehumanised socio-political
analyses that require further interpreta-
tion by other historians before they
become usable. Mr Zeman’s book
falls, regrettably, into this last category ;
regrettably because he has done some
valuable original work to give us a more
complex political analysis of the war-
period than has been hitherto available.
In particular he refutes the old notion
that Austria was composed of two
master races —the Germans and Magyars
—who were superimposed on a large
number of equal subject races and shows
instead that there was an intricate
hierarchy of subject races.
He also provides a few brilliant insights
into the nature of political breakdown.
Thus in parallel pre-war treason trials
in Austria and Hungary, the Austrians
acquitted while the Magyars condemned
pan-Slavist (i.e. pro-Russian) agitators.
Mr Zeman sees this as indicative of the
fact that the Austrians, unlike the
Magyars, had lost a clear understanding
of the nature of treason —a dangerous
thing to happen in such a precariously
placed State but one which suggests that
the problems posed by nationality were
too complex to be properly understood
(Kafka talks vividly about his difficulties
in being a Czech Jew writing in German
when the relations between all three
nationalities became increasingly
strained).
But despite these achievements the
general picture Mr Zeman offers is
unclear. It not only lacks the imaginative
context mentioned above, which alone
would justify the title, it is really an
account of the politics of the subject
nations and their emergence as separate
States after the World War. But it is
highly selective even here and the
principles of selection are not stated. Ws
learn most about the Czechs (Mr Zeman
is one) who admittedly had the most
effective national movement, and after
the Czechs, the Serbs, Poles and Croats.
The Germans and Magyars appear only as
a foil to the subject nations and this
plunges us into complete darkness as it is
impossible to find out why they let every-
thing happen as it did. The Ruthenes are
given a long section at the start but
then disappear from the scene like a
sub-plot the author has lost interest in,
only to emerge unexpectedly at the end
to join in the celebrations.
It is really an instance of the wood and
the trees ; some trees are described in
great and absorbing detail (such as the
Czech army in Russia after the Revolu-
tion), other trees are a vague outline
obscured by thick undergrowth (so that,
for example, if you don’t know what
happened in Bosnia in 1908 and Dmowski
is not even a name to you, you had
better find out before reading the book);
but the wood is nowhere to be seen.
RODNEY LIVINGSTONE
CRABBED AGE
Breakfast and Elevenses. John Bratby
Hutchinson. 31s.
A Time to Marry. David Delman.
Jarrolds. 20s.
The Leather Boys. Eliot George.
Blond. 20s.
The Killers of Karawala. Edward Lin-
dall. Hutchinson. 18s. 9d.
/Grabbed age and youth—surely this
must be the commonest theme used
to point up conflict in all literature. Ob-
viously the reason for its übiquity is that
it is one form of human (and animal)
experience common to almost every living
thing. Many of us live and die without
enduring some deathless romantic passion
or never having formed one side of an
“eternal triangle,” but even the staidest
man imaginable must at some stage of
his existence have questioned, rebelled
against or merely objected to the stand-
points or even the very existence of the
old.
John Bratby, for instance,, presents
the life to young manhood of a type of
character of whom one says “He must
have t :en born middle-aged.” Frankly
I found it impossible to decide exactly
what sort of book Bratby is trying to
present. If one takes his self-written,
facetious blurb at its face value his novel
perhaps should not be taken too seriously
—a sort of satire, maybe in which a
passive young man percolates slowly
downwards through society in an effort
to find a hidey-hole at the bottom? It
is a lumbering vehicle for Bratby’s
message anyway—the best writing, and
the worthwhile statement of the whole
is to be found on pages 302-303 in its con-
eluding paragraph. Some readers will
be equally as interested in Bratby’s
plentiful black and white illustrations as
they are in his prose. (He painted
Jimson’s pictures in “The Horse’s Mouth”
film and the Sydney Art Galiery has
one of his paintings.) One was prepared
for the force of his black and white
work, but scarcely for his hotch-potch
vulgarity. The only prevailing symbolism
in them is in his depiction of hands—
sometimes tiny, at others grotesquely


AUTHORS
invited submit MSS all types (includ-
ing Poems) for book publication.
Reasonable terms.
Stockwell Ltd.,
Ilfracombe, England.
(estd. 1898.)
enlarged This is interesting, but scarcely
carries the rest, both prose and graphic.
David Delman’s book is entertaining
enough, and might indeed have been well
above average had he been able to
decide whether to explore a provocative
theme single-heartedly, or whether to
keep women’s magazine and lending
library sales constantly in view. Edie
Barlow is in her late twenties, unmarried,
attractive, sophisticated-on-the-surface,
fairly fancy-free. The “crabbed age”
that confronts her is personified in
various married people including her
smug younger sister. Delman almost
explores a paradox of our times —that
although women now may have good
careers, financial and sexual indepen-
dence, yet the essential external pressure
towards “marriage, children, home” is
as strong as in earlier times and to
some extent stronger due to commercial
pressures. But Oh! Mr Delman! That
doctor-wooer of yours! Those cosy,
pseudo-medical consulting room scenes.
All he has that Dr Kildare lacked is a
dragonish elder sister.
“The Leather Boys” written under a
pseudonym by “a well-known woman
novelist” is a splendid, but most depress-
ing book of its kind. The leather boys
are British equivalents of our motor-
cycle mounted, leather coated “leatheries. ’
Dick lives with his grandmother who is
more permissive than his time-payment
ridden Mum. (The book opens as Dick
assists an appalling latter day Sairey
Gamp to lay out grandfather’s corpse—
this author can handle unconventional
humor excellently.) Reggie, Dick’s
friend, leader and later, lover, is the
drifting son of a happily married couple
who died during his formative years.
Both Dick and Reggie are thoroughly
convincingly portrayed: their ingrained
materialism—their vague awareness of
other and preferable sets of values—
their j reoccupation with personal adorn-
ment, their dandyism. Reggie at seven-
teen married a sluttish, grubby, would-be
glamor girl. He is revolted by her sloth,
her easy morals, her lack of personal
cleanliness. She is prototype of most of
her sisters in this city environment.
Sexual experience for these young people
is acquired early, c fely in that they have
little fear of unwanted pregnancies, and
calculatingly. They have no love, and
no romance. Granted their background,
and the status-symbols of themselves and
their elders, one cannot see any end to
the vicious circle. In this hopelessness
lies the book’s depressing nature.
The homosexual love that develops
between Dick and Reggie seems not only
as inevitable as it might have seemed to
an Athenian whose slave-women were de-
based for quite different social reasons,
but “Eliot George” handles her account
so well that one is utterly convinced of
its very poignant romantic values. “Eliot
George” makes no judgments and offers
no solutions.
“The Killers of Karawala” by an Aus-
tralian author is a thriller whose plot and
setting are a little unusual. The charac-
ters are members of a scientific expedi-
tion led by Steven Lithgow, an old, ailing
man, to a desert clay-pan from which
they hope to unearth the fossilised bones
of a giant marsupial dog. Lithgow’s
daughter ; a young scientist; and Warden,
cattle-man and guide to the expedition,
act out the mounting tensions that develop
within the party they also have to
contend with the crazed hatred of Big-
foot Harry, an ancient aborigine who
resents their presence on his erstwhile
tribal land. The denouement cannot
be absolutely unexpected, but Edward
Lindall manages to hold one’s attention
quite successfully.
NANCY KEESING
DOOM CROAKERS' SOUNDING BOARD
A Nation of Sheep. William J. Lederer.
Cassell. 245.
“Doom croakers, handwringers and
■Apolitical hypochondriacs—plus some
100,000 plain, puzzled Americans —have
made a 36-week best-seller out of this
loosely written handful of horror stories
about US policy in the Pacific.” Thus
“Time” began its review of this sequel
to “The Ugly American.”
Mr Lederer deserves better than
this. Lederer, an ex-Navy captain,
was for six years special assistant
and public information officer to
the Commander-in-Chief of all the US
Pacific forces (in turn, Admirals Rad-
ford, Stump and Felt). He is a firm
believer in democratic processes, and is
as sanguine a man as ever grinned
through a “Time” photograph during a
$lOO-a-plate dinner. “Democratic pro-
cess is a strange animal,” he says. “Its
efficiency is in direct proportion to the
percentage of citizens who show interest
in Government.” Citizens who are given
a distorted version of the news, or who
have to rely on news services wanting to
provide headlines rather than sound
information, are apt to become apathetic.
World affairs will follow a dizzy and
erratic course even for the intelligent
layman ; only experts will seem to
understand them ; public opinion, except
when artfully stirred by the Press, will
become null. This much is obvious
enough, and we need no sybilline voice
to forewarn us. But when a forthright,
optimistic man in a plain, trenchant style
points his moral by verifiable stories
drawn from personal experience as a
Far Eastern observer, a platitude be-
comes a challenging proposition.
The intelligent layman now knows
that Syngman Rhee lost the support of
South Koreans years ago, that his Gov-
ernment was brutal and oppressive, that
many of his rabid opponents were not
communists, that he stifled the growth
of democracy in South Korea. But
Rhee’s. public relations men were able
for many years to sell a different image
to the American public: he was supposed
to be the last bastion against commun-
ism. Much of the money poured in by
the US was used by him to cultivate this
image and to persecute his rivals. Even
more notoriously, Chiang Kai-shek has
repeatedly duped the US Intelligence
Service and US Press. And what a damp
squib the Laotian crisis of 1959 turned
out to be!
Page 23 is a montage of newspaper
headlines screaming with “Locked
Battles on the Frontier,” “Urgent Con-
ferences” and “Panic.” Millions of
dollars of supplies arrived —perhaps even
the ultimate holocaust was nigh. How-
ever, as Denis Warner reported (quoted
on page 26): “Despite the Royal Lao
Government’s official claims of invasions
and major border crossings, Laos
suffered more from subversion than from
armed aggression . . . The war map
was, in fact, based largely on refugee
stories and rumor, and even on defeatists’
tales spread deliberately by enemy
agents.” Of course, now the Americans
may be losing the fight in Laos in spite
of the dollars which, as Lederer points
out, are no substitute for knowledge.
“The great mistakes in Korea, Laos and
China are repeated in this book to remind
you that you did not know about them
until late in the game, and then you
neither grasped their significance nor did
anything to correct them. You exhibited
no indignation, no citizen’s interest. You
passively kept chewing your cud, feeling
secure in a nation of sheep. And while
you silently accepted disgraceful per-
formances, a handful of communists have
gained influence over half the world.”
Lederer’s remedies are simple enough,
but not to be despised for that. They
include the formation of a permanent
corps of international experts, starting at


THE SCOTS COLLEGE
Bellevue Hill—Sydney
Master to teach English to Matricu-
lation standard required to begin
duties on Ist May, 1962. Full
particulars apply The Principal.
Missing Friend
WILL any dependents of ALBERT LESLIE
CAMPBELL with children NANCY and FRANK, who
emigrated to Australia from Penge, Surrey, in about
1878, please communicate with K. M. CAMPBELL,
Wicklands, Little Horsted, Uekfield, Sussex, England.
Legal Notice
TO PETER ZIEGLER formerly of Chauvel Street
Mount Gambier South Australia. —TAKE NOTICE
that an action has been commenced against you in
the High Court of Australia Principal Registry
Number 29 of 1959 by CHARLES ROBERT HAZEN
of Tyrendarra Victoria in which the Plaintiff’s claim
is for damages for injury loss and damage suffered
as a result of your negligence in the driving manage-
ment and control of a motor vehicle on the Casterton
Road Glenburnie in the State of South Australia on
the Ist day of June 1957 whereby the said motor
vehicle collided with a motor vehicle driven by the
plaintiff And that it has been ordered that service
of the writ in the said action be effected by this
advertisement If you desire to defend the said action
you must within twenty-one days from the publication
of this advertisement inclusive of the day of such
publication cause an appearance to be entered for
you in the Principal Registry of the said High Court
of Australia at 450 Law Courts Place Melbourne in
the State of Victoria In default of such appearance
judgement may be entered against you.—H. L.
YUNCKEN & YUNCKEN, of 443 Little Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria, Solicitors for the
Plaintiff.
Divorce Notices
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO ERIC ROBERT GODBER late C/O Mrs. Sharpless
Post Office Glenorchkey in the State of Victoria.—
TAKE NOTICE that NOELLA MAE GODBER has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2827 of 1961 on the
ground of Desertion during a period of two years
and upwards If you wish to defend this Petition
you may enter an Answer in the Divorce Registry
Mint Building Macquarie Street Sydney on or
before the 4th May 1962 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from J. B. MOFFATT &
SON, Solicitors, of 139 King Street, Sydney.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF '
NEW SOUTH WALES
In Divorce.
TO LESLIE RAYMOND JOHN ANDERSON formerly
of Yagoona West.—TAKE NOTICE that BETTY
MAY ANDERSON has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1273 of 1961 in the Supreme Court of New
South Wales on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for two years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Mint Building Macquarie
Street Sydney by the 11th May 1902 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from MESSRS.
S. T. HODGE & CO., Solicitors, of 4 Castlereagb
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO WILLIAM RAYMOND LEWIS. TAKE
NOTICE that DORIS MAY LEWIS has com-
menced a suit No. 3934 of 1961 against you
in this Court and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the grounds of desertion, cruelty,
drunkenness and separation and take notice that if
you wish to defend you are required to enter an
Answer to the said suit at the proper office of this
Court on or before the 4th day of May 1962 and
in the event of your not doing so within the time
limited or by obtaining further time the petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application to
W. H. LUCHETTI 137 Pacific Highway, North
Sydney, free of charge.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
college level, the use of military rejects
(some 70 per cent, of American youth)
in overseas duties in posts ranging from
menials and chauffeurs to interpreters
and builders, a foreign student pro-
gramme on comprehensive lines, how to
influence your Congressman and so on.
His proposals engender hope, not hand-
wringing.
JAMES GRIFFIN
BOTH SIDES OF THE FENCE
The Dickens Critics. Edited by George
H. Ford and Lauriat Lane. Jr.
Cornell University Press. 555. 6d.
A nthologies of criticism are generally
unwieldy, unsatisfying things;
trying to read them is like trying to keep
seven poached eggs on a convex plate,
or like being shown through a house
made up of the spare rooms from seven
quite different houses. What we are
happy to accept in poetry we are not
happy to accept in criticism.
The critic’s job is to elaborate his
theory and then show how it works, If
the theory is an embracing one, or
describes a fairly large body of work,
then a single article is not roomy enough
for both elaboration and application ; if
the theory is not embracing, then in a
book it tends to look like a boy in man’s
clothes. Articles by various hands on
“Pickwick Papers’’ would collect better, as
it were, than articles by various hands
on Dickens. Wholeness and completeness,
once you have the taste for them, are
difficult to forgo.
“The Dickens Critics,” then, will very
likely seem unsatisfactory to a person
wishing to understand, or comprehend,
Dickens. But to a person whose interest
is tinged with something antiquarian,
historical, this will be in many ways a
fascinating volume. In it Professors Ford
and Lane have collected thirty-two of the
many thousands of reviews and articles
written about Dickens and his work over
the last hundred years. They begin with
Edgar Allan Poe’s 1841 review of “The
Old Curiosity Shop,” and en 1 it with
Angus Wilson’s 1960 article, “Charles
Dickens: A Haunting.” In between come
Sir James Fitzjames Stephen, Ruskin,
Henry James, Lewes, Trollope, Gissing,
Chesterton, Shaw, Santayana, Eliot,
Huxley, Dorothy Van Ghent, Jack
Lindsay, Kettle, Trilling, Pritchett.
Almost without exception these are
important writers, and therefore what
they had to say matters —or at least
mattered when they said it.
They disagree violently, of course, as
more people do over Dickens perhaps
than over any other novelist. Of “The
Old Curiosity Shop,” for example, Poe
writes that "In truth, the great feature of
the ‘Curiosity Shop’ is its chaste, vigor-
ous, glorious imagination.” Of the death
of Little Nell, “These concluding scenes
are. so drawn that human language, urged
by human thought, could go no farther
in the excitement of human feelings. And
the pathos is of that best order which is
relieved, in great measure, by ideality.
Here the book has never been equalled.”
In 1930, writing of the same book, Aldous
Huxley analyses what he calls Dickens’
“really monstrous emotional vulgarity.”
Dickens, he says, “had an overflowing
heart ; but the trouble was that it over-
flowed with such curious and even rather
repellent secretions.” In this, Huxley
was echoing what Sir James Fitzjames
Stephen wrote in 1859, about “A Tale of
Two Cities”; the reader of this book,
vSir James believed, would ‘ have an
opportunity of studying in its elements a
system of cookery which procured for
its ingenious inventor unparalleled popu-
larity, and enabled him to infect the
literature of his country with a disease.”
What becomes clear from a reading
of these essays is that what you have to
make your mind up about if you want
to make your mind up about Dickens is
feeling. What divides the critics is their
attitude to feeling. Henry James believed
that stories based on the elementary
passions ought to be told in a spirit of
intellectual superiority to those passions ;
George Orwell was pleased to see behind
the novels the face of a man who was
generously angry. These are the two
sides of the fence, and to a large extent
critics line themselves up on one side or
the other.
What is basic to the disagreement is,
of course, a difference of attitude to
literature itself. Are we to think of a
book by Dickens, for example, as if it
were an independent and natural occur-
ence, like a stone or a tree, or are we to
think of it as a shout, a hail, as some-
thing that, although it makes sense by
itself, is equally the expression of some-
thing else? In practice, I think, we do
both, and I see no reason why we should
not continue to —and we shall go on
arguing till doomsday about whether or
not this particular stone,. this particular
tree, has all the natural parts it ought to,
and about whether or not this shout, this
hail, is justified by, or fully representative
of, the condition of the shouter or hailer.
Some of the best arguments of the last
hundred years are gathered in this
volume.
PETER SHRUBB


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO CHARLES HENRY DAVID late of No. 2 Sixtv
Walk St. Marys in the State of New South Wales.—
TAKE NOTICE that MERLENE JOY DAVID has
tiled a Petition for Divorce No. 1682 of 1961 on the
ground of desertion during a period of two years
and upwards If you wish to defend this Petition
you may enter an Answer in the Divorce Registry
Mint Building Macquarie Street Sydney on or before
the 11th May 1961 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from J. B. MOFFATT &
SON, of 139 King Street, Sydney.—-C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
10 KEITH HANNAH late of Edgecliffe in the
State of New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that
EDNA MINNIE HANNAH has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 280 of 1960 on the ground of desertion
during a period of three years and upwards If you
wish to defend this Petition you may enter an
Answer in the Divorce Registry Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney on or before the 4th May
1962 and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from J. B. MOFFATT & SON, Solicitors, of
139 King Street, Sydney.—C. A. 11. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO ALBERT JOHN LYNCH late of Lady Davidson
Rest Home Turramurra in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that IRENE EMILY
DOROTHY LYNCH has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2931 of 1960 on the ground of desertion during
a period of three years and upwards If you wish to
defend this Petition you may enter an Answer in
the Divorce Registry Mint Building Macquarie
Street Sydney on or before 4th May 1962 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge from J. B.
MOFFATT & SON, Solicitors, of 139 King Street,
Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
In Divorce.
TO ESTHER JULIA KENNEDY late of Oyster Bay
Road Oyster Bay.—TAKE NOTICE that WILLIAM
JOHN KENNEDY has filed a Petition No. 506 of 1962
for Divorce from you on the grounds of separation
for five years If you wish to defend or to be served
with further process you may file an Answer or a
notice of address in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court Mint Building Macquarie Street Sydney by
the 11th May 1962 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MERVYN FINLAY &
COMPANY, Solicitors, Newlands House, 141
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
In Divorce.
TO MATILDA ELLIOTT GREIG ENSOR late of
Mari’s Guest House Tank Street Brisbane. —TAKE
NOTICE that NEVILLE ARTHUR ENSOR has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 527 of 1962 on the grounds
of desertion and separation If you wish to defend
you must file an Answer in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney on or before 11th May 1962 You may
obtain copies of the Petition and notice of petition
without charge from McINTOSH, ADRIAN &
FELLOWS, Solicitors, of 27 Hunter Street, Sydney.
If you do not wish to file an Answer but wish to
receive a copy of each document filed in the pro-
ceedings you should file a notice of address for
service on or before such date. —C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO ALICE HARRIET MULVENA ROBINSON
(falsely called Alice Harriet Mulvena Lee) late of
Hornsby in the State of New South Wales.—TAKE
NOTICE that TERENCE LEE has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3662 of 1960 for nullity on the ground
that at the time of the ceremony of his marriage
to yourself you were then still the wife of Reginald
Robinson If you wish to defend this Petition you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Mint Building Macquarie Street Sydney within six
weeks of the publication of this notice and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge from J. B.
MOFFATT & SON, Solicitors, of 81 York Street,
Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
THE SCOTS COLLEGE
Bellevue Hill Sydney
Master to teach Modern and
Ancient History to matriculation
standard required to begin duties
on Ist May, 1962. Full particulars
apply The Principal.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
In Divorce.
TO ANDRAS WE ISZ.—TAKE NOTICE that EVA
JULIANNA WEISZ has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3057 of 1961 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for two years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an Answer in
the Divorce Registry Mint Building Macquarie
Street Sydney by the 14th day of May 1962 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without charge from
GEOFFREY SEE GILLIS & CO., Solicitors, 2S
Martin Place, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IT'S J/
ONLY JL
More for
mum,
more
for dad,
more for.
the kids
in your
greatest
magazine
Everybody's
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 685
Across
I—lt’s1 —It’s very shocking to scrutinise Salvador and burst into
song. (12)
8 — False. (6)
9 Girl bounded with great vexation and opened at full
racecourse bat. (8)
11 —No barefoot thug? (9)
12—Nine's beginning with nine.
That's nothing. (3)
15— She is holding in gloss. (5)
16— Glove for one who plays 'hall
with a river in Victoria. (5)
17 — Wheat-flies are in first. (5)
18— European city turn contains
one. (5)
19— Swell sealer. (3)
20— Third-degree is likely to win
this campaign in space-selling.
(9)
23 Scripture which is worthily mis-
represented. (4, 4)
24 Trifle confused? That’s the
tip. (6)
25 — It may remain when there’s
nowhere to sit a proxy in a
wedding party. (8, 4)
Down
1— Explained away a difference off
by itself. (7, 3)
2 Is it at all curly? (anagram) (14)
3 Most valiant money with neck-
wear before tea. (10)
4 The Observatory marks this
flag followed by the enemy.
(8, 4)
5 Head a number above the
fifties for Cromwell. (4)
6 An Evatt is upset by a musical
tailpiece. (4)
7 Glow, in Pitt isn't confused, but
this is what an amoeba is-expert
in. (9, 2,3)
10 —A pet is honest enough for a
woolgrovving property. (5, 7)
13 — Laundress’s boast is making some
mark. (10)
14— A bigwig to slate the New Year
percussion. (10)
21 — Border of some garment cough
from the discreet. (4)
22 Studious fellow pulls up. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 684


(First issues off the press)
CONVENIENCE
(Right to your mail-box)
CONTINUITY
(No chance of missing out)
HAVE
Bulle
DELIVERED BY POST
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
NEW M B. RENEW Al.
(Please cross out one)
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please find enclosed my cheque I money-order for
months subscription to The Bulletin.
NAME:
ADDRESS:
RATES (Australia and New Guinea): 1 year
£2 125.; \ year—-£1 6s. Post free. British
Dominions: £3 6s. Other countries: £3 16s.
N.Z. SUBSCRIPTIONS (Remit to Box 965, Well-
ington, N.Z.): 1 year —£2 12s. (N.Z.
currency); \ year —£l 6s. (N.Z. currency).
Please add exchange to cheques.
TH E B U L LETI N
IS AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
NEWS MAGAZINE
44 pages of top-flight information. The press,
the radio, TV will dish you up the headline
news . . . but The Bulletin has time to bring
vou the news inside the news.
AND IT’S PACKED WITH
ENTERTAINMENT
Nearly every facet of modern life is reflected
in The Bulletin’s pages, so no wonder
anyone can find a little of himself—or herself
—in The Bulletin.
