

The
Bulletin
Registered, in Australia for trans-
mission by post as a newspaper .
February 10, 1962
¥
NOLAN
THE
MYTH
MAKER


LUOJJ.
NOIIVnNNVHdnS
a
.YTWZTIiMON
for all SELF-EMPLOYED PERSONS
professional men, businessmen, farmers, graziers
and ALL EMPLOYERS and their STAFFS
Commonwealth legislation now enables the A.M.P.
Society, Australia’s No. 1 Life Office, to offer you
tax-free superannuation which can provide for:
• RETIREMENT with adequate
cash resources.
• PROTECTION for your family
against death duties and against
sickness and accident
• CAPITAL APPRECIATION
through A.M.P.'s large holdings
of equity shares and real estate.
• GUARANTEED by£ssomillion
of A.MLP. assets.
For ail information,
contact your A.M.P. man or The Superannuation Manager,
A.M.P SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY COVE
A purely mutual society largest underwriter of superannuation in Australia
A.M.P. members enjoy the unquestioned security afforded by funds of
£ 550,000,000 which the Society seeks to invest to the
greatest benefit to members.


Tanner
"WE NEED TARIFF PROTECTION TO STAND ON OUR OWN TWO FEET"


This AUstralia
THE COMMUNIST PARTY
THE COMING SPLIT
BY MUGGA
L. SHARKEY
Another switch
T7ven the casual observer can some-
times pick the signs of crisis in the
local Communist party. The most
noticeable one is the falling off in activity
by the comrades ; instead of action there
is talk —and the more acute the crisis, the
longer and louder becomes the gabble-
feast.
Since Phair’s closed down some time
ago, there has been no particular focus
for the Melbourne comrades who like to
mix beer and dialectics, but in Sydney the
pubs in the vicinity of the CP head-
quarters in Market St still provide good
material for field-workers interested in
the local effects of the Albanian-Soviet-
Chinese slanging match.
Communist parties in several other
countries (France and Italy, for example)
have made official pronouncements on
the great rift in world communism, but
the level on which the issue is being
discussed in Sydney is far removed from
theoretical Marxism. Instead, it is a com-
pound of personal hatreds and interstate
rivalries between the headquarters group,
headed by General Secretary Lance
Sharkey in Sydney, and the Victorian
branch.
The topic being most widely discussed
among the Sydney cadres is the alleged
imminent downfall of E. F. Hill, a mem-
ber of the politburo and secretary of
the party’s Victorian section. Hill is
supposedly intriguing against the national
and NSW leaders and trying to embarrass
them with references to their recent
about-face on the Peking-Moscow dis-
pute. Sharkey and his supporters, from
a position of tacit support for the
Peking-Tirana axis, have decided to back
Khrushchev, and the communist Press
now runs articles attacking Albania.
Hill's group is still solid with Peking and
on a practical level can point to the fact
that the Australian CP has received more
material help from the Chinese than from
the Russians in recent years.
A verbal campaign of character assass-
ination often precedes a demotion or
expulsion in the Communist party.
Stories being told about Hill in Sydney
are reminiscent of those put around
about the two top Red leaders, Blake and
Henry, prior to their sudden demotion in
1954. In Sydney, at any rate, the ground
seems to have been well prepared for
action against Hill and his supporters on
the ground of their reluctance to
endorse the new pro-Khrushchev line of
the central committee.
Hill and his cronies are fighting from
under and have comparatively little
ammunition at the moment. Their
most telling charge against Sharkey is a
claim that his “defeatism" cost the CP
the general secretaryship of the Water-
side Workers' Federation. This argument
has it that the position could have been
won if Sharkey had been prepared to run
the WWF Industrial Officer, Mr N.
Docker, as candidate instead of Mr T.
Nelson. This view was advanced initially
by communist wharfies in Melbourne
with the aim of bolstering the tottering
Hill sheikhdom in the southern State. It
is now being accepted by a lot of Sydney
waterside activists who invested a lot
of time and energy in the campaign for
the defeated Nelson.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; Phone: 27 5971.
Vol. 83
No. 4278
COMMERCIAL FISH
IS THE CARP A DANGER?
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
I ATE in 1960 Mr Collin E. Pratt, a 28-
year-old grazier of Mirboo North,
set out to become the first Victorian to
breed edible carp on a commercial scale.
He set aside a dam on his property and
into it he introduced a number of
Cyprinus carpio, the European carp which
is widely "farmed" and eaten in central
Europe. As a result, he appeared in
court last March to plead not guilty to a
charge of having put non-indigenous fish
into Victorian waters, an offence under
the Fisheries Act.
The prosecution was launched by the
Fisheries and Wildlife Department, one
of whose research officers told the Court
that carp were not native to Victoria,
although they existed here in the sense
that “Negroes existed in America." The
magistrate did not rule on this point,
but he said that the word “Victorian” was
not defined in the Act. As a result, he
had to rely on the definition of “waters”
and this clearly exempted private water
from control. He acquitted Mr Pratt
and awarded him £5 ss. costs against
the department.
There was a sequel last week when
Pratt publicly denied that he had written
abusive letters to the Chief Secretary, Mr
A. G. Rylah. or that he had “declared
war” on his department in an effort to
establish the farming of European carp
in Victoria. On this occasion. Pratt was
appearing before an inquiry into Euro-
pean carp being held by the State
Development Committee. Questions
being looked at by the committee
include: Do the carp adversely affect
welfare of other freshwater fish or
aquatic wild life? Would there be a
steady demand for it as food? What
would be the consequence of the escape
of carp into natural waters?
Mr Pratt told the inquiry that he was
manager of Boolarra Fish Farms Pty Ltd
which had marketed some £7OO worth of
carp, despite some financial difficulties.
He claimed that European carp had been
in Victorian waters for nearly a century
without showing signs of being aggressive
fish. He was convinced that a ready
market existed for the fish, particularly
among European migrants. It was also a
traditional Jewish fish, he added.
Mr L. Zylberderg, director of an
import-export firm, told the inquiry that
he was anxious to start a fish farm with
overseas backing. However, suitable carp


would need to be imported from Europe
or Japan as European migrants did not
like the variety at present available.
Another businessman witness claimed
that the Fisheries Department was con-
fused between the King carp and a “bony
mongrel fish” called Crucian carp. The
King carp, he assured the inquiry, would,
not survive in natural waters if it escaped
from breeding ponds.
The experts of the Fisheries Depart-
ment are expected to launch a strong
attack on Cyprinus carpio before the
inquiry is over.
TRAFFIC
THE BRISBANE FIASCO
FROM JOHN HIGGINS IN BRISBANE
K. MORRIS
Was he pushed?
TOkisbane’s on-the-spot system of
** ticketing motorists for minor
offences, which was to have relieved the
Courts of a lot of work and freed police
for traffic activities, has proved a ghastly
failure. There are now more traffic
cases before the Courts than ever before
in history, and the number is sky-
rocketing.
The thing becomes< bewildering when
one realises that under the on-the-spot
system of "ticketing” minor offenders,
motorists can plead guilty in writing and
pay a set fine. According to part-time
Police Minister Ken Morris and traffic
engineer Leitch, it would prevent excessive
Court work. In fact 80 per cent, of
motorists booked under this system
pleaded guilty in writing, but the
remaining 20 per cent., who either exer-
cised their right to defend themselves in
Court or who were summonsed because
of neglect or refusal to pay, have jammed
Brisbane's two Traffic Courts with up to
500 cases each week. Were it not for the
large percentage of guilty pleas, a Court
official has estimated that 10 Traffic
Courts sitting daily would be required
to deal with the city's motoring offenders.
Are Brisbane motorists, then, essentially
delinquent? Or are they the victims of
quota-hunting traffic cops plus an almost
incomprehensible system of traffic and
parking do's and dont's? The latter
appears the more probable solution.
Southern motorists arriving in Brisbane
certainly must be hopelessly bewildered
by the maze of signs which decorate every
main street and many of the minor ones.
Any system of traffic control which
results in a ludicrously high prosecution
rate for motorists is obviously at fault —-
unless motorists are indeed the morons
many traffic experts obviously believe
them to be.
Mr Morris still remains in charge of the
traffic police despite the fact that he was
sensationally relieved of the Police port-
folio a fortnight ago after a meeting of
the Executive Council. “Did he fall or
was he pushed?” asked Sunday "Truth”
rather rudely, nut-shelling a situation
that intrigued the Queensland electorate.
Mr Morris claimed vigorously and
repeatedly that he has asked the Premier
to relieve him of this portfolio to enable
him to concentrate on Labor and Industry
and plans to boost the sagging Queens-
land economy. Other sources flatly
claimed that the job was taken from
him by Cabinet because of behind-the-
scenes clashes with Commissioner
Bischof and the police union—and also
because of general public dissatisfaction
with his conduct of the portfolio. The
announcement that police would now be
placed under Education Minister and
Country party 2-i.c. Jack Pizzey was
sprung in the Brisbane "Telegraph” while
the Executive Council was actually meet-
ing Mr Morris later told pressmen angrily
that he knew the Cabinet Minister who
had “leaked’’ to the Press —and that it
was just the sort of despicable thing he
(Morris) expected from him. The coali-
tion is not really a happy one.
The decision to leave Traffic under the
control of Mr Morris was just one more
illustration of the evil genius of the
Nicklin-Morris coalition for bungling its
own affairs. Police Commissioner
Bischof will now be responsible to three
Ministers —Mr Pizzey for the uniformed
and CIB sections; Mr Morris for the
traffic police; and Transport Minister
Gordon Chalk for the transport
police a sort of Alice in Wonder-
land situation that could happen only in
Queensland.
SUMMER SCHOOL
BREAD BEFORE
FREEDOM?
FROM A CANBERRA CORRESPONDENT
'T'he normally quiet assembly of the Aus-
tralian Institute of Political Science
Summer School, held in Canberra over
the Australia Day weekend, was amused
to find itself a temporary centre of the
Labor Patry's faction fights. It began
when Mr Bob Hawke, ACTU research
officer, felt inspired to revive the best old
Marxist class-war style of oratory and
delivered an angry attack on the “pre-
judices"’ of his audience. Mr
Hawke, a Western Australian Rhodes
Scholar and, to date, one of the ACTU's
more useful advocates before the Com-
monwealth Arbitration Commission, was
listed to open discussion on the paper on
“Social and Political Aspects of Aus-
tralia’s Economic Growth,” by Mr W.
E. R. Francis.
Amongst other things, Mr Francis
cited the Basic Wage judgments of 1959
and 1960 in support of his contention
that wage increases cause price increases.
In reply, Mr Hawke claimed that in 1961,
largely due to his own advocacy, the
Commission had in fact admitted that
this proposition was not necessarily true.
Warming up he condemned Mr Francis’s
paper as worthless, and proceeded to
lambaste his audience as “comfortably
and placidly middle-class.” Like a Class
War prophet, he warned that this day he
intended to raise them out of their
“lethargy and stupor” ; that he would
make them for the first time in their lives
“sit up in their seats and think about the
problems of the workers.” He urged
“assembled businessmen, bank clerks and
Liberal party research officers” to think
again whether their social and political
freedoms really existed and concede that
a greater degree of central planning, at
the cost of some sacrifice of “what were,
anyway, non-existent liberties,” would
produce a much more rapid rate of
growth of real national income. Then
followed a number of sarcastic aspersions
on the ideas of Mr Colin Clark.
Some in the audience were naturally
angry at Hawke's abuse of them, but
since he had set himself up as a Labor
spokesman none was as furious as the
trade-union and Labor ieaders like Mr
Gough Whitlam, who had to try to show
that his “bread before freedom” line and
outmoded class-war cliches did not rep-
resent official Labor thinking. It is not
known what the executive of the Vic-
torian ALP thought.


IMMIGRATION
THE COMMISSIONER'S
DOUBTS
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
S. H. PORTER
“Unnecessary"
A/Core than 60 years ago the Australian
Natives’ Association used to dis-
tribute medallions inscribed "Australia
Ur the Australians —White Australia .
Its attitude is pretty much the same to-
day, although its spokesmen now prefer
the euphemisms “Selective Immigration
and “Restrictive Immigration" when de-
fending Australian policies against the
growing body of critics. Every year,
ANA conferences carry resolutions con-
gratulating the Government on upholding
the stains quo with regard to Asian
migrants. In more recent times, these
have been linked with attacks on the
Immigration Reform Association which
one ANA spokesman has called “a
suspect body working for a colored
Australia."
All this indicates that the annual
ANA smoke night is hardly the place
to express doubts about Australian im-
migration policies. Yet this is precisely
what was done by the Victorian Police
Commissioner, Mr S. H. Porter, at the
traditional Australia Day celebration of
the ANA in Melbourne. Mr Porter sug-
gested that the “White Australia Policy '
would go when Australia was strong
enough to assimilate large numbers of
Asians. "We are already seeing the first
effects of immigration and growing
strength of Australia. In the past oecade,
we have gone from strength to strength. ’
The ANA Federal President, Air J. E.
Menadue. took the earliest opportunity
to issue a public attack on Mr Porter's
address, characterising it as being "as
unnece.sary as it is impracticable.” Mr
Menadue argued that Australia would
never be strong enough to assimilate
large numbers of Asian citizens. “Austra-
lians who possess any degree of national
pride are not thinking of abandoning
their truly national policy on restricted
immigration.” Rather, continued Mr
Menadue, Australians should concen-
trate on developing the continent and
raising social standards so that Austra-
lia “can become the brightest gem in
the southern sea.” There was no need
of Asian immigration and no need to
apologise for Australia’s policy towards
it. “All responsible leaders of the Asian
people admit our sovereign right to enact
our policy and that they themselves have
restrictions more stringent than our own.”
These were strong words, but at least
Mr Porter escaped rebuke for his implied
support of the policy of seeking non-
Asian migrants from overseas. The ANA,
quite apart from vocal opposition to
Asian migrants, clearly is not happy
about those from other parts of the
world. At the 1960 conference of its
Victorian division, held in Ballarat,
motions were launched to admit natural-
ised New Australians to full basic mem-
bership of the ANA. (At present they can
only enrol for medical and hospital bene-
fits, but cannot have any voice in the
Association’s affairs). It was defeated, as
was a motion to admit male persons
born in other parts of the British Com-
monwealth, subject to six months’ resi-
dence here.
Mr Porter let the attack pass. Perhaps
he realised that the task of converting
the ANA was far too big a job for a
busy Police Commissioner.
LOCAL GOVERNMENT
THE MAYOR "DOES HIS LOLLY"
FROM KEITH WILLEY IN DARWIN
rvARWiN’s long-suffering Mayor. Mr
Harry Cooper, finally blew up this
week and called for “a complete Federal
Government re-stocktake" of Northern
Territory needs. While no longer quali-
fying for the postwar jibe—“this is the
place for a bottle dump" —Darwin still is
not a pretty town. Mr Cooper, in the
past a mild non-committal man (in con-
trast to ranting predecessors “Big Bill”
Richardson and “Tiger” Lyons), finally
did his lolly.
First, he claimed the converted wartime
Sidney Williams hut which still does duty
as a Supreme Court was “almost
unbelievably bad for 1962." “I would
think that even in 1862 a more substan-
tial and imposing structure would have
gone up than the hut from which our
justice is dispensed now." he said.
“Judges, magistrates and lawyers work
under shocking conditions.”
Next he took on a bugbear of long
standing: public access to Darwin Air-
port. which is shared by the Air Force
and the Department of Civil Aviation.
Until a couple of years back it was
fairly free and easy. Motorists meeting
planes checked briefly and informally
with the guardhouse at the main gate,
then drove (maximum speed 15 m.p.h.)
through the RAAF housing area to the
terminal. Then the RAAF brought down
a ban. Today the public cannot use the
main gate because it would mean enter-
ing a “defence area.” People meeting or
wishing to travel on planes now have to
detour a couple of miles up the Stuart
Highway, negotiate a labyrinth of narrow
twisting lanes on the perimeter of the
RAAF housing area, then try to squeeze
their vehicles into a tiny, grossly inade-
quate parking lot. Sometimes it is half
an hour after the aircraft leaves before
the inevitable traffic jam is sorted out.
Mr Cooper said: “It is a disgrace that
Darwin people and visitors have to sneak
in a side entrance at the airport to meet
people, catch planes and conduct their
business. It is time some area was
annexed from the defence zone and a
decent building put up so that we can
go through a front entrance and conduct
business properly."
He pointed to other examples of
“neglect and backward thinking,’’ notably
the lagging schedule for the much-needed
Darwin High School. “And it isn't
even settled yet whether or not we get
air-conditioning in the school.” (By
contrast, the new Administration offices
for Government clerks —a much later
project—is already half completed and
will be fully air-conditioned).
It was time not only Administration,
but Federal Parliament as well, had a
“re-stocktake" of the Territory's obvious
needs, Mr Cooper said. “There is a
danger we are succumbing to the parrot
cry of ‘insufficient funds.’ This is so
much piffle. In the national scheme of
things only a drop in the bucket is
needed to bring the city's major facilities
to reasonable present-day standards.
Obviously Darwin has been given a very
low priority. It is past time for a
change.”


“Just think of it Billy Graham on ice !"
TOWN PLANS
THE ARMY'S REAL ESTATE
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
A Rmy Minister Cramer arrived in Perth
last week for a routine inspection of
WA Army installations only to find him-
self in the middle of a controversy over
the relative importance of defence and
town planning. Centre of this con-
troversy is the Swanbourne rifle range,
a 550 acre defence reserve which falls in
the middle of the city’s tonier western
suburbs and includes \\ miles of fine
beach frontage to the Indian Ocean. The
Nedlands City Council has had its eye
on this site for some time and managed
to persuade the Army to release a small
portion of it two years ago. As soon as
he landed in Perth Mr Cramer was faced
with another request from the Council
to release a further 40 acres to allow the
council to develop its Swanbourne beach
area. The council further suggested that
the Army might consider transferring its
activities elsewhere in the interests of
town planning.
Mr Cramer pointed out that it would
cost the Army about £3,000,000 to
shift the site, an argument which
impressed the councillors. But when he
added that he was not prepared to ask
volunteer soldiers to travel 50 miles into
the bush for day-to-day training and
that soldiers should get the same con-
veniences as civilians, such as golf courses
and beaches, a storm burst over his suave
head.
Editorials in Perth's two daily news-
papers wondered what sort of an Army
Mr Cramer thought he was building
when soldiers had to train in the middle
of a city and could not go without a
game of golf or a swim. Critics also
unearthed some diverting facts about the
Army’s real estate holdings in Perth in
comparison with its population. The
total Western Command strength of
700 permanent soldiers and 3000 CMF
troops is spread over 1600 acres in the
metropolitan area and several thousand
in the Avon Valley Training Centre. The
Swanbourne site houses about 200
troops of the elite Special Air Service
company, 100 other troops and 200
dependants. This gives it a population
density about half Perth’s average, taking
into account the fact that two thirds of
the area is occupied by the rifle range.


BUSHFIRES
WHAT WENT WRONG?
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
A. RYLAH
“Calculated”
■Outer recriminations have followed
-*-* Victoria's recent bushfires in which
eight people lost their lives and close on
400 homes were destroyed. The fires broke
out on a Sunday—a day which oddly had
not been proclaimed as one of acute fire
danger —and within hours it was apparent
that the State was facing its worst fires
since the 1939 disasters. It was not until
Tuesday that the Army was sent to fight
the blazes and it was even later before a
co-ordinated command was set up under
the Police Commissioner, Mr Porter,
merging under his control the resources
of the Forests Commission, the Metro-
politan Fire Brigade, Country Fire
Authority, police and volunteers.
The State Opposition leader, Mr
Stoneham, charged the Government with
being unprepared and with dilatoriness in
calling for the Army and setting up a uni-
fied organisation. The acting Premier,
Mr Rylah, at first declined to comment
on Stoneham’s charges, but a statement
issued by the Premier’s Department
alleged that the critics were mainly those
who had not been into the fire areas.
This was certainly not true of Mr Stone-
ham, nor of countless firefighters and fire
victims who wrote letters to the Mel-
bourne Press pin-pointing flaws in the
fire-fighting organisation.
Later Mr Rylah claimed that the Army
was standing by in readiness on the
Monday and that Mr Porter had made
a “calculated decision” to keep it in
reserve for the more serious situation
expected on Tuesday. Had the Army been
swung in on Monday, its services would
have been dissipated and not available
when most needed, Mr Rylah said. How-
ever, after the crisis had passed, Mr
Porter announced that an over-all plan
was being drawn up to assemble volun-
teers to fight any fresh outbreaks —an
admission, perhaps, that the arrangements
for getting firefighters to where they were
most needed left something to be desired.
The chief of the Country Fire
Authority, Mr A. W. Larkin, bought
into the fight by attacking what he
called “the theories of armchair strate-
gists." “If there are to be any improve-
ments in our organisation,” he said, “they
will come from the people in whom I
have confidence —the captains and
leaders of the volunteer fire brigades.”
Mr Larkin denied that there had been a
shortage of equipment at crucial flame
fronts or that divided control between
his own organisation, the Metropolitan
Fire Brigade and the Forests Commission
had caused confusion or inefficiency.
One of Mr Larkin's fire chiefs, Coun-
cillor Frank Keenan, captain of the
Yarrawonga Rural Brigade, then told a
Melbourne newspaper that the Country
Fire Authority had failed because it
“poured thousands of pounds into equip-
ment without educating the people how
to use it.” Councillor Keenan also said
that the Forests Commission bore some
of the blame for not burning enough fire
breaks. He further suggested that the
CFA should be run by what he called
“a rural man'’, one who understood rural
conditions in fighting bushfires.
Mr Larkin did not take at all kindly
to these suggestions. In fact, he dis-
patched a letter to Councillor Keenan,
sacking him from his position as chief of
the Yarrawonga Brigade and suspending
him from duty. Keenan, 54, is a farmer
and grazier who has served in the local
brigade for 38 years. “A man can't
remain in the organisation if he’s dis-
satisfied or critical of the way things
are run,” Mr Larkin said. .Said Councillor
Keenan: “Mr Larkins said he'd only
take notice of his fire captains. Well,
I'm a fire captain and I’m criticising.”
Following Councillor Keenan’s sacking,
volunteer firemen from five brigades in
the Yarrawonga district met to discuss
Mr Larkin's action. No statement was
issued from the meeting, but both the
Keenan affair and the larger issue of
Victoria's fire-fighting organisation are
certain to be the subject of questions
and debate when Parliament reassembles.
ABORIGINES
"ALL THE SAME"
FROM KEITH WILLEY IN DARWIN
DAVIS DANIELS
Bad meals
'The newly-formed Northern Territory
Council for Aboriginal Rights did
not take long to swing into action. Last
week a general meeting attended by about
50 natives decided to call for changes at
Darwin's Bagot Compound and other
settlements where they claim they are
fed up with meals of “bread, tea and
re-heated stew.” The committee's full-
blood aboriginal chairman. Mr Jacob
Roberts, said: “We will ask that board
at Bagot be reduced or cancelled until
those staying there are receiving full
wages.” (Current board is about 10s. a
week). “We realise the charge isn’t
much,” Mr Roberts said, in an impec-
cably typewritten “Press statement”, “but
to maintain this level is degrading and
serves only to keep our people down.”
Mr Davis Daniels, secretary of the
council, said many aborigines claimed
that Bagot meals were “all the same.”
The council has adopted a list of aims,
including:
# Granting of full and equal rights to
all Australian aborigines on a
national basis.
# A set-up similar to the Returned
Servicemen's Rehabilitation Scheme,
where men and women could earn
wages while training frv social
improvement.
# Granting of funds to the Federal
educational authority for that
department —and no other authority
—to attend i£> education needs.
9 No segregation in schools on the
basis of color. (White and colored
children already study side by side
in schools throughout the Territory).
# Appointment of aborigines to the
Public Service on a Welfare Board
to travel among their people and
report on their needs.


# Payment of social service benefits
to the individual and not to station
managers, the Welfare Branch, or
missions.
f A large-scale building scheme to
permit complete housing of abo-
riginal families within five years.
# Aboriginal ownership of reserves,
and management of reserves to be
in the hands of the natives.
Mr Roberts said Europeans as well as
aborigines should be educated in the pro-
blems of assimilation and claimed lectures
on genetics to various clubs would help
break down color prejudice. On the long
term, he added, the council wanted to
see research into the practical and
economic aspects of aboriginal co-opera-
tives in mining, fishing, pastoral and
other industries. Soon the Council for
Aboriginal Rights will move to form
branches in Alice Springs and elsewhere
throughout the Territory.
So far its emergence has brought no
official reaction.
Privately, the presence on the council
of a leading (white) communist party
official has given rise to some suspicion
about just how much of the impetus
behind this organisation comes from the
natives themselves and how much from
outside influences.
And not even the council itself has
yet been game to grasp the nettle of
whether they should be allowed to drink
alcohol regardless of social advancement.
One thing is certain: the aborigines—
or some of them, anyway—are emerging
from their long night of apathy. Else-
where in Australia this means no more
than a minor social fact of life.
But in the Territory—economically
moribund, remote from the rest of the
nation and still administered as a
colony—it is important that the white
man recognise and meet this trend in a
constructive way.
“Do you go to a co-educational school or an educational one?"
SCHOOLS
TASMANIA REGRETS ITS
COMPREHENSIVE SCHOOLS
FROM A HOBART CORRESPONDENT
L. BARNARD
Doubts
TC vidence that misgivings about Tas-
mania’s education system are now
felt even within the closed ranks of the
Labor party is provided by an agenda
item submitted by Newstead branch for
consideration at the State ALP confer-
ence late this month.
Newstead is one of Launceston's
“good” suburbs. The branch’s member-
ship is typical of the more inquiring
Labor supporter. Lance Barnard, MHR
for Bass and a former secondary school
teacher, is among the branch members.
It is in areas such as Newstead that
parents have most keenly felt the impact
of lack of jobs for children who passed
their examinations and left school at the
end of last year.
The motion calls on the Government
to set up a Parliamentary committee to
inquire into the value of the new com-
prehensive secondary school scheme, the
merits of the central matriculation schools
whicn opened their doors for the first
time in Launceston and Hobart this week,
the necessity of stabilising the accepted
secondary school curriclum for at least
10 years, the worth of the 16-year school
leaving age, and the advisability of
segregating the sexes at secondary school
level.
There has been widespread criticism of
the comprehensive High schools insti-
tuted when the Modern schools proved
unacceptable as an alternative to the
regular academic High schools. Theore-
tically, these schools offered education
to the age of 16 within the capabilities of
children unfitted to benefit from curricula
planned for students aiming at university
courses or career jobs. In an effort to
meet the needs of the less gifted child,
the curriculum perhaps swung too far
from the academic, and the Modern
School Certificate became poor currency
in the labor market.
Many now fear that the authorities, in
trying to make an academic High school
course not altogether beyond the capa-
city of the lower ]Q, have lowered its
worth to the bright child. C ertainly, the
Schools Board (“leaving”) year has proved
a poor basis for the child going on next
year to matriculation. And the certificates,
graded down to the lowest common
denominator, have lost value. Potential
employers have become discrimi-
nating: where they once accepted
any Schools Board pass as a good quali-
fication, they now look sideways at any-
thing lower than a higher pass.
The matriculation schools have been
set up to help children to undertake the
difficult task of qualifying for university
entrance in the year following Schools
Board. They have been generally
approved, though many parents have
questioned the third (from primary to
High school to matriculation school)
change of school that they impose on
children.
The Newstead branch’s suggested
stabilisation of the curriculum cuts across
the path of the educational theorists,
who have enjoyed years of field experi-
ments wi.h Tasmanian children. Some
of their innovations—the area schools,
notably—have been markedly successful.
Other new ideas have not only failed,
but have disastrously affected the educa-
tion of the children who were the guinea
pigs. A long period of stability would
undoubtedly be welcomed by bewildered
teachers, some of whom nc doubt are
members of the Newstead ALP branch.


NOLAN THE MYTH MAKER
Always on the Lookout
By BERNARD HESLING
It is usual, on a count of contemporary
Australian hands, to place Sidney
Nolan with William Dobell and
Russell Drysdale in our top trinity of
art. Overseas he occupies more of a
Holy Ghost position. Dobell and
Drysdale are known and are placed in
art jargon with Graham Sutherland,
John Piper and the lesser French Masters,
but they are not news in any way that
Nolan is news.
All three of them have paintings in
the world's great galleries and famous
characters buy their work; but Nolan
alone is collected by important fictional
characters. C. P. Snow, the novelist, who
has become a solid buyer of Nolan pic-
tures (£stg4oo to £stgsoo of the new
“Leda and the Swan” series, not to men-
tion sundry second series Ned Kellys),
also recommends Nolan to the people in
his own books. Snow's hot-house
characters, meandering their academic
way through what could be called the
“Forsyte Saga"’ of today, chunter about
Nolan much as old Jolyon Forsyte
used to chunter about port. Mind you,
Nolan has not Picasso status but, as the
Spaniard represents France to the world
of art, so Nolan represents, to the intelli-
gentsia who have never been here,
Australia.
Largely because of Nolan this fair
land, once thought to be peopled with
sheep, is now known to be peopled with
jumbucks and we have suddenly become,
to the art-conscious world, a nation of
legend. In London, Paris, New York,
Nolan’s Ned Kelly—-part horse, part
hammer-head shark is as fabulous
as the minotaur and more believable.
The prissy Mrs Frazer, with her con-
vict —a betrayal legend known to all
good New Australians but to no old
ones —is stranger than Samson and
Delilah.
Nolan’s explorer series, Burke and
Wills —the two of them either as smug
as Rousseau’s relatives in a suburban
outback or else astride overgrown French
poodles (can these be camels?) crossing
the arid wastes of St Kilda Road with
Sunday Melbourne mirage-like as a back-
cloth —beat even the legend of Alfred
burning the scones or of Canute (the
first shop steward) interceding with the
waves.
Nolan at the present time is bogged
down with Greek mythology, but this is
also to our good, as the Olympians will
give our shanty characters status.
Already the old firm, Leda and Swan, fly,
or rather levitate, above the Nullarbor.
Sir Kenneth Clarke (and we must pay
attention to him, for he runs the Tate
Gallery) relates this levitation in Nolan’s
work to our gravity-defying flying foxes
and bounding ’roos. Perhaps had Sir
Kenneth seen the parts of St Kilda where
Nolan spent his boyhood, he would also
relate Ned Kelly's headpiece (especially
when shown recumbent) to those coin-
devouring gas meters which lurk behind
each garden wall.
Out let us not quibble. Surely the main
thing for Australia is that Olympus
and Ayers Rock are related, and mytho-
logy one big family. Indeed, when we
consider how quickly Kelly, via Nolan,
has grown from bushranger to myth in
an old school tie, it is easy to see that
the monkey-business of Leda and the
Swan began not on Olympus—where
poets can get away with murder —but
in some Athenian Court of Petty
Sessions, with a lass called Leda being
charged with un-ancient Grecian
activities . . .
My personal knowledge of Sidney
Nolan and his very vital wife, Cynthia,
is confined mainly to a few hilarious
weekend meetings at the home of mutual
friends some years ago at Wahroonga.
These friends, like most Sydney North
Shore types, live far beyond their means.
But I don’t think it occurs to them (as it
does to ipe) that, if only they sold one
quarter of Nolan’s leftovers which line
their walls —paintings which neither I nor
anyone else has ever heard them praise
or even refer to —they would just as
easily be able to live beyond their means
at Point Piper.
I mention this matter of Nolan's
friends and of their approach, or lack of
approach, to his art merely to show that,
in the main, Nolan’s friends are not
artists or even art conscious.
Maugham tells a story somewhere of
a Frenchman —I believe it was Andre
Gide—coming to him in London and
asking to be put in touch with the English
School of Writers. Maugham was horri-
fied. He knew no writers. Similarly,
Nolan knew few painters, and the ietters
1 read about him from Ray Mathew in
London don't show that he’s changed
much.
Painters, contrary to the general idea,
are usually stumpy, sawn-oft people.
Nolan is one of the few with real
“presence”: he is good-looking in a typi-
cally Irish, rather lumpy way. Gentle,
soft-spoken and very fond of talk (or
perhaps “blarney’’ would describe it
better), I remember him gossiping con-
tinuously and amusingly about people,
places, food, dogs and, above all. cars —
provided they were Bentleys. His speech
is clipped (almost English) and the only
time he shows any sign of his working-
class background is when he meets
working people, and then his accent
becomes immediately and naturally
Dinkum.
We did talk about painting once. I
asked him why he used Ripolin enamel.
It was in the studio-cum-bedroom of his
small weatherboard cottage in Woniora
Avenue, Wahroonga. Jinx. Cynthia’s
daughter by a former marriage, padding
around the floor, had left toe marks on
a painting—he painted flat in those
days—and he was turning the cute foot-
prints into the sort of dawn-of-history
fauna that you find only in Australia.
“Ripolin is the best enamel in the
world,’ he said “and they even make me
a range of special colors!”
As an apprentice decorator, I knew
all about Ripolin. in Yorkshire we could
only afford to use it on the gentry. But,
like all good household enamels, it lacks
body and needs at least three undercoats.
That was the idea. Nolan explained. The
mottled priming coat, the grain of the


plywood, an old painting on top of
which a new painting was painted
everything grinned marvellously through
Ripolin. You could get depth, soil
strata and all manner of unbelievable
graining effects—and often by accident.
Nolan knew about Ripolin from the
time when he was fifteen and working for
a firm making illuminated signs with
transparent enamels. He was born of
working-class Irish immigrant stock and
had exactly the same healthy attitude to
the arts as the Dublin poets I knew in my
youth, who would cross Europe to see
a football match, but would hardly cross
the street to see an art gallery.
Mind you, Nolan wanted to draw;
but he also wanted to box. This outlet
was denied him, though, for his early
life was over-shadowed by a fighter
brother, “Boy” Nolan, against whom he
was no match. (Boy died in the mid-
thirties).
Like Maurice Vlaminck, the painter,
Nolan was an amateur racing cyclist. He
was also a member of a beach life-saving
team and spent much time in gymnasiums.
Arty folk find it slightly incredible that
a happy extrovert (as Nolan undoubtedly
was and is) should turn at one bound
from sport to art. But my own experi-
ence, born of a life-long connection with
industry, is that workpeople, artisans,
furnace hands, packers and people who
hold down the kind of job Nolan held
down at sixteen or so, take to art (if they
ever hear about it) as easily as they do to
cycling, and far more easily than do their
more academic brothers. Nolan’s
first paintings were not primitive
at all but inspired by Miro, Klee and
even Picasso. This also is not surprising.
A factory worker, coming new to art,
nearly always starts with what he thinks
is the easiest to do.
Tt was a shock, certainly, to Nolan’s
parents when he first turned in his
bicycle. But they quickly adapted them-
selves and soon became at least no worse
than the Melbourne critics at assessing
their son’s work ; and far, far better than
Sir Daryl Lindsay of the Melbourne
Gallery, who couldn’t stand a bar of
Nolan —even when his first assistant,
Robert Haines (now in charge of the
Duke of Bedford’s collection in Austra-
lia), begged him to acquire at least one
Nolan for the Gallery.
Art historians usually go deeply into
Nolan’s source of study and worry about
his politics, his rows with the Contem-
porary Art Society and about what art
did to him, rather than about what he did
to art. What Nolan did to art, even
when he was quite young, is significant—
he made art pay. He always saw art as
saleable ; otherwise he would not have
ditched his bike. And, once out of those
back streets, he completely lost those
jittery pre-occupations—money, rent,
direction-from-which-next-meal-is-coming
and so on —that make most artists such
a bore.
Almost devoid of formal art training,
Nolan at least enrolled in 1934 at the
night art school of the National Gallery
of Victoria and he sporadically attended
classes of a conventional kind there,
under Charles Wheeler and William
Mclnnes. Somewhere along the iine he
also met George Bell (Melbourne's
Julian Ashton and the man who most
influenced Drysdale and many others).
When Bell took the risk of praising
Nolan’s work, Nolan came back at him
with the “one, two”. In boxing, you first
surprise your client with a high left: One.
And then, before he recovers, clout him
with a low right: Two. Nolan first sur-
prised George Bell by accepting whole-
heartedly the news that he could paint,
and immediately followed it up with a
demand for a market.
One cannot, at this distance, know
exactly what was said, but the general
gist of it was that Nolan pointed out that,
as Bell knew the Melbourne buyers, he
had best come clean. “It’s stupid, my
working in a hat factory (he was in the
display unit of a men’s hat concern) when
I can paint. Who are you going to send
me to?”
Bell sent him first to Sir Keith Mur-
doch, Australia’s first big sponsor of
Modern Art, and a self-made man. The
trouble with self-made men is that they’ll
take risks with anything except art. It
had been rather fun backing Picasso
and Roualt, as Murdoch did, against a
howling mob of Melbourne tradition-
alists, because he had known what the
things were worth and what he could get
for them. But this Nolan was just a
crazy kid, obviously. People who saw
those early Nolans in bulk, especially the
Central Australia ones, like a gallery
full of oily red sand, each pile on its
own badly-warped piece of cheap ply,
with a frame tacked around it made from
a sort of boarding-house architrave
moulding, the color of cocky’s joy, can
have some little sympathy for Sir Keith
for not recognising genius when he
saw it.
Bell sent Nolan to various people and
each time he bounced back like a ball.
Whether it was George Bell who intro-
duced him to John Reed I’m not sure ;
but someone did and Reed was a far
better bet, for, if the best artists are
born poor, the best appreciators are born
rich. John will forgive me for this, I
know, but the Roger Frys, Clive Bells,
Peter Bellews and John Reeds of this
world are all born gentlemen (not Sir
Herbert Read, for he attended my
orphanage); and gentlemen (very rare
these days), never having had to consider
superficial things such as picture frames
and keeping up with Jones and what price
you might get for a thing if you sold it,
do not give a hoot what anything looks
like so long as they like it.
Reed liked Nolan, gave him a room in
his house, introduced him to Cynthia, his
sister, whom Nolan later married, and
bought whatever he fancied of Nolan’s.
That is how John and his wife, Sunday,
came to own almost the entire output of
the artist’s formative years.
Lovely folk such as the Reeds may not
be painters themselves, but they are
artists in living. When, in 1943, Nolan
climbed on the roof of their house in
the Melbourne suburb of Baleen and
painted his “Moon Boy” portrait so big
across the slates that RAAF officials
ordered its removal (thinking that Jap-
anese aircraft might understand it even if
they didn't), the Reeds didn’t bat an
eyelid.
“Moon Boy”—a yellow blob on a
blue ground sometimes entitled “John
Sinclair at St Kiida” —was something in
Nolan's system that he wanted to get out.
He had put various versions of it in the
Contemporary Art Society’s exhibitions
(CAS rules would not allow them to
refuse a member's painting, then) and
each time Adrian Lawler, that humorless
battler for dead serious contemporary
art, tore it down.
TJefore meeting the Reeds, Nolan lived
along with other civant garde types and
his first wife in the condemned Chinese
buildings behind the Museum. He went
each morning to the Melbourne City
Baths —for Australian and overseas
bohemians differ vitally on the impor-
tance of ablutions—and then, as often as
not, would greet his proud dad as the
latter rattled round the Swanson Street
tram roundabout at the controls of a St
Kilda tram (he later bought Dad a pub).
During the early 1940 s Nolan’s paint-
ings moved through a number of fruitful
periods. His early work, bright primitive
street scenes and huge childlike head
studies, now gave place to an intellectual-
ised type of primitive. If you didn't like
Nolan (and few Melbourne critics did)
you called him a cocktail primitive.
Always an avid reader, Nolan gradu-
ally, with more time on his hands, began
under the influence of Reed and young
Max Harris (he was for a time a partner
in their publishing firm) to take in
Rimbaud, the French symbolists, Kierke-
gaard, Krishnamurti, Julian Green and
finally a peculiar little book entitled “The
Inner History of the Kelly Gang”. Kelly
and Nolan were made for each other.
Both of Irish decent, both battling in that
perverse Irish way against something not
at all clear in the mind.
Kelly could be said to have been a
socialist before the advent of socialism.


He wrote quaint letters to the papers,
threatened Governments, but all without
a party or agenda. His bijou exploits, as
written in the Kelly book, sound big.
And Nolan, chewing them over in his
mind, saw them as epic.
Shortly before this time, whilst in the
Army, Nolan had discovered a new way
to present drama. The war (certainly as
he saw it) took place not on an heroic
field but in chook farm territory like
Wimmera and Kiama. The concentra-
ted horror of war for him, then, could
be as easily seen in a hare caught in a
trap (this was the title of one of his
paintings), or in “The Dream of a
Latrine Sitter”, perhaps the most famous
of his army pictures.
The Kelly war, according to Nolan,
takes place in a horrid emptiness (even
his forests are strangely empty) in
which mail-bag-like policemen and black,
hunted, undernourished Kellys (he never
shows the rest of the Kelly gang) stand
silently as if on point duty.
It is interesting that, although Nolan
covered the Kelly country along with
Max Harris, on bicycles, he took lar
more written notes than he did sketches.
Nolan has always preferred a literary
image to work from ; some of these
images in poetic form have been
published.
It is not to say, though, that, because
Nolan has a literary vision, his paint-
ings are in any sense illustrations, or
even contain a message; and even the
legend part of his work is, 1 feel sure,
largely in the eye of the beholder. Nolan
himself paints a legend purely because it
represents a series of canvasses and he
can see the work stretching out in front
of him. His method of working—
especially recently—is almost non-objec-
tive, so how overseas eggheads can even
see a Mrs Frazer just in one candy-
striped jock strap which floats by itself
across a picture, or recognise the con-
vict, when he’s usually portrayed as a
mere football jersey taking a short cut
to the bush laundry, is difficult to see!
Nolan’s legends have been so success-
ful abroad that he has painted most of
them at least twice. And in the second
Kelly series (not so good as the first)
he shows that he is (unfortunately)
awake-up now to the head inside the Kelly
armour ; for you cannot have a deity
without a face. The old slotted gas
meter helmet is now made of a sort of
mosquito net (more Australian still)
through which we can see either Mr
Jekyll Kelly or Mr Hyde Kelly, according
to the way Sid happens to be feeling
about Ned.
That Nolan is constantly on the look-
out for legends—he hasn’t discovered
Fisher’s ghost yet —was shown when the
Sydney painter Godfrey Miller laugh-
ingly said to him “You’ll finish up
painting the Gallipoli landing” and
Nolan proceeded to do precisely that.
It is, however, in the very Gallipoli
series that Nolan's great genius is shown.
The Anzacs, stripped to the buff—and
almost stripped of human form—remain
in these paintings, for some uncanny
reason, both heroic and Australiasian.
Australians, however they may picture
themselves as bronzed warriors, stem in
the main from pink pommies and Nolan
has seized on this. These bodies, sloshing
about in Turkish waters or lolling head-
less on beaches, show the very essence of
men bathing nude at St Kilda baths in
Nolan’s boyhood and recapture fantasti-
cally (at least to one who wasn't there)
the real Gallipoli.
In the recent book “Nolan”—now
almost out of print, but no need to hurry
as there are still a few left of the fifty-
guinea edition—Colin Maclnnes, who
writes in an elegant manner quite alien
to Nolan, mentions in passing that our
local boy is one of the few modern
painters to have work hanging in the
Royal Household. This is nice to know,
but let us hope he is understood there
better than the English painter John
Piper who, having been commissioned
to do a series of Windsor Castle paint-
ings, which he executed in his usual tur-
bulent and rainy manner, was
greeted by his patron, King George VI,
with “Capital, capital, Mr Piper. Splen-
did, splendid. But what a pity you saw
Windsor on such a very dull day . ..”
THE TROUBLE
WITH KENNEDY
On the banks of the Rubicon
By HANS J. MORGENTHAU
On September 30 of last year, the
eminent French sociologist and
columnist Raymond Aron ad-
dressed in “Le Figaro” an open
letter to President Kennedy. This letter
is both a moving and an important docu-
ment. It is moving because it is written
with sympathy and concern by a man
who calls himself an “enthusiastic parti-
san” of the President. It is important
because it raises one of the two great
issues of government which will ruin the
Kennedy administration and perhaps the
country if the President does not meet
them successfully.
Mr Aron addresses himself to the
President’s method of deciding issues of
foreign policy, taking as his point of
departure the invasion of Cuba. The
President had to choose between two in-
compatible courses of action suggested
by his advisers: to stage an invasion of
Cuba, with American military support if
necessary, or not to intervene. In order
to avoid the risks which either course
entailed, the President tried to steer a
middle course, intervening just a little bit,
but not enough to assure success. Con-
fronted with a choice between black and
white, he chose grey. “Yet in foreign
policy,” as Mr Aron puts it, “the half-
measure, the compromise, ordinarily com-
bines the disadvantages of the two pos-
sible policies.”
Mr Aron was, and perhaps still is,
afraid that the President might repeat
this error in his approach to the Berlin
crisis. For here again, the President must
choose between counsels recommending
diametrically opposed courses of action:
a negotiated settlement which is bound to
weaken the American position in West
Berlin and West Germany, and an in-
transigent position which, at the very least
for the immediate future, increases the
risks of war. As Mr Aron sees it, the
President has chosen, at least in theory,
the “hard” line, yet in his style, method,
and language he has committed himself
also to “flexibility.” In consequence, no-
body can be sure whether Mr Kennedy
intends to play the role of Churchill or
of Chamberlain. Nobody—the American
people, our allies, probably Mr Khrush-
chev himself—knows what our negoti-
ating position is, assuming we have one.
Mr Aron did not answer the question:
What has been the matter with Kennedy?
For the indecisiveness of the Cuban in-
tervention and the apparent indecisive-
ness of Mr Kennedy’s approach to the
Berlin crisis are but the manifestations


of a deficiency which is deeply embedded
in the President’s experience and person-
ality. To put it bluntly: the President
does not know what the statesman's task
is, while he knows only too well the poli-
tician’s, and thus he endeavours to
accomplish the task of the statesman with
the tools of the politican. Yet the virtues
of the politician can easily become vices
when they are brought to bear upon the
statesman's task.
The politician can take words for
deeds, and, in so far as his words seek to
influence people to vote for him or for
his measures, his words actually are
deeds. He can make promises without
keeping them, and his promises may not
even be expected to be kept. He can run
on a platform every two or four years
and take his stand on quite different
ground in between. He can equivocate
between different courses of action and
bridge the chasm between incompatible
positions by embracing them both. He
can vote one way today and another
way tomorrow, .id if he can't make up
his mind he can abstain from voting.
He can try to reduce to a minimum the
uncertainties of the future by preparing
his action with proper attention to the
facts, organisation, and planning.
The statesman, especially in his dealings
with other nations, can hardly ever afford
to do any of these things. His rhetoric
is verbalised action, an explanation of
deeds done or a foretaste of deeds to
come. What still moves us today in the
recorded oratory of a Churchill or a
Roosevelt is not so much the literary
quality per se as the organic connection
between the words and the deeds. Listen-
ing to those words, we remember the
deeds, and we are moved.
The statesman must commit himself to
a particular course of action to the ex-
clusion of all others. He must cross the
Rubicon or refrain from crossing it. but
he cannot have it both ways. If he goes
forward he takes certain risks, and if he
stands still he takes other risks. There is
no riskless middle ground.
The statesman must cross the Rubicon
not knowing how deep and turbulent the
river is, nor what he will find on the other
side. He must commit himself to a par-
ticular course of action in ignorance of
its consequences, and he must be capable
of acting decisively in spite of that ignor-
ance. He must be capable of staking the
fate of the nation upon a hunch.
'T'he extent to which the style of the
Kennedy administration resembles
the politician’s rather than the states-
man’s is revealed not only by the policies
it has pursued but more particularly
by its mode of operation. Rhetoric has
been divorced from action and has
tended to be taken as a substitute for
it. To give only one glaring example:
last July, the President committed him-
self in a speech to a programme of fallout
shelters, without having a policy. Ever
since, his aides have searched for a
sensible policy which would not be too
much at variance with the President’s
words.
Yet the President cannot help making
decisions, and the method by which he
has reached them suffers from three
defects. It is informal to the
point of being haphazard. It tends
to lose sight of what is para-
mount and must be decided by the Presi-
dent and nobody else. It has the quality
of indecisiveness because it vainly seeks
a certainty that is beyond its reach.
The President has wisely discarded the
committee system through which his pre-
decessor governed, shielding him from
direct contact with the issues in all their
complexity. Yet he has unwisely re-
placed this system with another one that
threatens to overwhelm him with an
unmanageable variety of issues and
opinions.
The President exposes himself deliber-
ately to advice from a great variety of
sources. These sources are generally indi-
viduals who talk to him at length in his
office or over the phone. This system,
or lack of it, has the virtue of making
the President familiar with all shades of
opinion. It has the double vice of making
it either too easy or too difficult for the
President to make up his mind.
Thus it has come about, after many
months of deliberation by a great many
officials, that if we have a policy with
regard to Berlin, neither the American
public nor the allies of the United States
are aware of it. Many months of con-
tingency planning did not prepare the
administration for the possibility that
the East Germans might effectively seal
East Berlin off by erecting a wall. Hence
the administration did not know what
to do when the wall went up in August,
and did nothing. The show of force
through which the United States, in
October, tried to maintain the status quo
concerning the access of its military per-
sonnel to East Berlin ended in confused
retreat.
The President must overcome the in-
decisiveness of his own mind. That mind
seeks the predictability to which it is
accustomed from domestic politics. There,
meticulous ascertainment of the facts,
precise planning and elaborate organisa-
tion years in advance paid off in victory
in the primaries, the nominating con-
vention, and the elections.
The President searches for the same
kind of certainty in his conduct of foreign
policy. He tries to eliminate the dark-
ness of ignorance and to probe the depth
of uncertainty that even so astute a
mind as his cannot penetrate, by drawing
upon the most luminous and knowledge-
able minds he can find and by making
use of all the information he can lay
his hands on. Yet those dark spots on
the landscape of foreign poiicy are im-
pervious to the most brilliant intelli-
gence, and factual knowledge cannot pre-
vail against them. Thus the President's
mind hesitates and his will falters when
he seeks the answer to the riddle in more
advice and additional information.
The frantic search for advice and in-
formation performs for the President the
same function the employment of as-
trologers and soothsayers did for the
princes of old: to create the illusion of
certainty where there can be no cer-
tainty. The more facile the President's
advisers are with words and the more
self-assured they are in their convictions,
the more adept they are in encouraging
the President in such futile search.
HThis particular issue of government
stems from the President’s personal
approach to his task. He has created it;
it has never before in American history
appeared in this way and is not likely
to appear so again. The other issue of
government with which the President
must come to terms is inherent in the
American system. All Presidents have
had to face it and live with it one way
or another. It concerns the relationship
between domestic politics and foreign
policy.
The issue is posed by the incompati-
biiity between the rational requirements
of sound foreign policy and the emotional
preferences of a democratically controlled
public opinion. The President has the
supreme task of reconciling the two. The
dilemma can never be fully resolved. If
the President pursues uncompromisingly
the foreign policy he regards to be sound,
as Woodrow Wilson did, he risks losing
the support of opinion at home; if he
accommodates himself to that opinion
at the expense of what sound foreign
policy requires, he risks jeopardising the
interests of the country. In order to be
able to avoid these two extremes —the
one fatal to his personal power, the other
fatal to the power of the nation—the
President must perform the two historic
functions of his office: to be the educator
of the people and the conciliator of
seemingly irreconcilable positions. The
President must impress upon the people
the requirements of sound foreign policy
by telling them the facts of political life
and what they require of the nation, and
then strike a compromise which leaves
the essence of sound foreign policy intact
while assuaging domestic opinion.
It is the measure of Mr Kennedy's
failure that he has performed neither
task.
[Reprinted by arrangement from
“Commentary,” New York.]


HOW TO WIN N.S.W.
The key is the Catholics and the Country
By PETER COLEMAN
R. W. ASKIN
Mr Two Per Cent?
been like a madhouse here this
morning,” said Mr R. W. Askin, the
J- Leader of the NSW Liberal party,
as he welcomed The Bulletin to
his rooms in the NSW Parliament House.
“This toll road is a turn-up for us in the
elections.” We soon saw what he meant.
The three phones on his desk kept ring-
ing, reporters came and went, men rushed
in carrying notes on which were scribbled
letters like “2G8,” and walkie-talkies
were in action. Questions and answers
rolled on.
“Would a Liberal Government bring
back capital punishment?”
“No.”
“Is it true your favorite song is ‘Take
a pair of sparkling eyes’?”
“Yes. Heffron says his is ‘Danny
Boy’.”
“Will you offer aid to Church
schools?”
“Yes, if I can persuade the party.”
“Why did the Government decide on
this toll road?"
“A blunder. We all make mistakes,
and they made a big one.”
“What sort of a swing do you need
to win the election?”
“Two per cent. We need four more
seats to win.”
Mr Robert William Askin, at 53, is a
trim, alert, greying, quickspoken man
who looks like a banker. He is obviously
the best leader the NSW Liberals have
had in a party which has not been lucky
with its leaders: it was led to the polls
in 1947, 1950 and 1953 by Mr Vernon
Treatt, a Rhodes Scholar who is still one
of the best brains in the House, but who
rarely took anyone into his confidence
and has been described in Ash Street as
a “legalistic introvert.” Mr Murray
Robson was elected leader by two votes,
but had his time cut out retaining his
leadership against the Morton faction.
When his military manner, not to say
intolerance, became too much for some of
his own followers, he was succeeded by
Mr Pat Morton who, as much as anyone,
was responsible for the idea that Parlia-
mentary Liberals regarded their party as a
part-time club. After he was beaten in
both the 1956 and 1959 elections he was
replaced by Bob Askin, the first Liberal
leader to abandon all outside interests
and dedicate himself to the party and
politics and the first actually to reduce
the chronic faction fighting of the Parlia-
mentary party.
He is a new type of Liberal, in keeping
with the new spirit of tough-minded pro-
fessionalisation that has swept through
the NSW party over the past three years.
After the last defeat in 1959 the party
took stock. Weaknesses were shown up
and coldly examined. The critics had
an open season. Why, they asked, is the
NSW party the only Liberal party in
Australia that has never won an election?
Why are so many Parliamentary Liberals
such amateurs that, if you want a good
policy committee, you have to call in out-
side professional men, businessmen or
party officials? Why are so many party
functions tea-and-lemonade social affairs,
concerned to raise money for a charity
instead of political rallies to stiffen the
fibre of the party? Why are there not
more members, more active members?
Are we a party that is determined to
govern or merely an Opposition club?
No issue was dodged and corrective
steps w'ere taken. It W'as easy to blame
the gerrymander or Labor's abolition of
postal votes which cost the Liberal and
Country parties about 30,000 votes. But
it went deeper than this. There was a
big drive for members (particularly
among Catholics), more than tripling
the number of metropolitan members to
about 35.000. There was a purge
at the last pre-selections and several
new candidates (“new blood”) pre-
selected. The party rules were stiffened
to expel any member who stands against
the official candidate. There were
demands for full-time MPs. They were
determined to win the election and. if
necessary, prepared to jettison the old
“gentlemanly” but unprofessional habits
of the party, even if it meant losing some
old members.
Mr Askin was in the thick of this
reform movement. He is a pure
Liberal party man. He was never in
the UAP. He left school at 14, joined
the old Government Savings Bank and by
1939 he was manager of the Rural
Bank's Travel Department. He had been
active in the Bank Officers’ Association, a
tame-cat union if there was one, but
one which gave him wide experience in
bargaining and negotiating for better
conditions. After he was discharged
from the AIF he spent some time in
Borneo looking into the possibility of
starting a trading post in Banjermasin,
but finally came back to the Rural
Bank. He claims he entered politics by
accident —after bumping into Murray
Robson, his old CO at the bank, and
accepting the invitation to help Robson
in his electorate in 1947. in the next
election he stood himself and won
Collaroy by 5000 votes. He was obviously
leader material and after nine years he
was elected Leader of the Opposition. His
victory against the Labor Government in
the referendum to abolish the Upper
House —the first victory his party has ever
had —has put the seal of success on him.
His followers are now as confident as
he is that they will win the four seats
necessary to form a Government. The
Labor Government’s latest gerrymander
has made it harder for them but not as
hard as Labor thought: before the gerry-
mander the Liberal and Country parties
had a good chance in ten to twelve seats ;
now this has been cut back to seven or
eight. But that is more than enough.
\l7hen things had quietened down a bit
in Mr Askin's office we were able
to ask him how he was going to run his
campaign, it is not basically a question
of total votes. As far as that is concerned
they had already won the 1959 election (as
well as those in 1950 and 1956). It is a
question of seats, and the key to these
seats is two groups: the Catholic vote
and the country vote.
One basic reason why the NSW Liberal
party has never won an election is the
absence of a Labor split in NSW


and the comparative unimportance in
State elections of the DLP giving pre-
ferences to the Liberals. The Liberal
and Country parties of NSW get a
higher percentage of the primaries than
these parties in Victoria or Queensland,
but in Victoria and Queensland they are
in office because of the Labor split.
Compare the 17 per cent. DLP vote in
Victoria with the 1 per cent, in NSW.
And even in NSW, where the DLP
general secretary, Mr Jack Kane, stood
for Concord in 1959, 50 per cent, of his
preferences leaked to the ALP. So Mr
Askin's first problem is the Catholic
voters who remain loyal to Labor despite
Dr Evatt.
Part of the reason for this Catholic
loyalty to Labor is that Labor has been
particularly successful in building up
two legends. The first was the Cahill
legend, the idea that the late Mr Cahill
was a Right-wing Labor Catholic and
that the best way to show your opposi-
tion to Dr Evatt was to vote for Mr
Cahill. In 1959. in the electorates North
Sydney, Rockdale, Ryde and Concord,
Labor had a door-knock campaign
among all Catholic voters, putting the
issue precisely in these terms. There was
little real sense in it: the Labor Govern-
ment has done nothing for Catholics ; it
opposes State aid ; it would not introduce
the same secret ballot legislation as the
Federal Government, which would enable
some communist controlled State unions
to break free; some of its members
patronise communist “Peace” fronts. But
the Cahill legend stuck. The second
legend is that the Liberal party is
sectarian, Protestant, Masonic.
With Mr Cahill dead, the Liberals now
have their best chance to win over the
Catholic voters. Mr Heffron has no
particular influence over Catholics and is
in fact an agnostic. This is a crucial
time. When Heffron retires he may be
replaced with a Right-wing Catholic like
Mr P. Hills or Mr N. Mannix, and the
Catholic vote could again be consolida-
ted behind Labor. How will Mr Askin
do it?
He is certainly not going to make any-
thing of Mr Heffron’s agnosticism—
that is Mr Heffron's private affair—and
he has decided not to take the fight into
the Labor camp by trying to exploit
unity ticket scandals and sectarianism
within the ALP. His line of approach to
the Catholic voters is to kill the other
legend—of a Protestant Liberal party —
and try to woo the Catholic across.
Catholics are now far more prominent
in the NSW Liberal party than ever
before. The NSW President, Mr Ralph
Honner, the latest Liberal to be elected
to the Legislative Council, Mr R. de
Bryon-Faes, and the president of the
Women's Group, Mrs Robert Gallagher,
are all Catholics. Many of the candidates,
including R. O. Healey (Wakehurst), S.
T. Alewood (Rockdale), J. R. P. Partridge
(Kogarah), and B. Waterford (Castle-
reagh) are Catholics. Healey is certain to
win, and Alewood and Waterford will
probably win. Finally, Mr Askin is in
favor of State aid to Church schools
and this will be part of Liberal policy if
he can persuade the party to adopt it.
Generally speaking, the Liberals best
chances of winning new seats in
the city are in Sutherland, Rockdale,
Concord, Randwick and Ryde, particu-
larly the first two.
GThe other key to power in NSW is
the country seats. The archi-
tect of Labor’s victory in 1941
was Sir William McKell, who won 14
country seats with 14 locally well-known
candidates —men like Roger Nott who
is now Administrator of the Northern
Territory. They have since moved on,
died, or been beaten. What Sir William
McKell did in 1941 Askin is determined
to do in 1962.
Part of the key to this is settling the
antagonism between the Liberal and
Country parties. The Liberals, committed
as they are to being a national, non-
sectional party, probably represent a
greater threat to the Country party than
Labor.
They could, in the end, replace the
Country party —something Labor could
never do. There can be no final com-
promise, but in the meantime the 1959
elections showed how they could turn
this rivalry into an asset: in 1959, in
country seats (like Murrumbidgee, Castle-
reagh, Liverpool Plains, Burrinjuck)
where there was a straightout contest
between the Labor and Country parties,
Labor either gained ground or maintained
its position ; in country seats where there
was a triangular contest between the
Liberal, Country and Labor parties there
were huge swings from Labor after dis-
tributing preferences: in Young (won by
the Country party) a swing of 9 per cent
from Labor, in Dubbo (Liberal) a swing
of 7.6 per cent, in Mudgee (Labor) a
sw'ing of 4.6 per cent. There is, clearly,
in the country a significant percentage of
Liberal voters who would vote Labor
rather than Country party if there were
no Liberal candidate, and a significant
percentage of Country party voters who
would vote Labor rather than Liberal if
there were no Country party candidate.
But where there are candidates from both
Opposition parties, they vote for their
party and follow the ticket putting Labor
last. Even in Mudgee in 1959, where
Country party-Liberal party rivalry was
bitter, there was almost a 100 per cent,
exchange of preferences. In this election
the triangular technique will be used again
in Mudgee, where Labor won by 275
votes in 1959, and extended to Murrum-
bidgee and Castlereagh. In other swing-
ing seats now held by Labor the Liberals
alone will contest Goulburn and Wyong
and the Country party alone will try to
recapture Lismote. Of these, Mr Askin
is confident the Liberals can win Mudgee,
Castlereagh, Murrumbidgee, Wyong and
Goulburn—more than enough to win the
election. The Country party is confident
of Lismore.
All this will be backed up by what he
claims will be “the best rural policy since
the war.” In his general policies he has
avoided the Morton policy of saving them
all up for one big bang and has
announced a few well in advance: for
the 21,000 widow pensioners, the same
concession on Government transport as
applies to age and invalid pensioners ; for
tenants and landlords, rent control to
remain on rentals of under £5 weekly,
but removed on those above ; for clubs
whose 500,000 members want poker
machines and those Protestants who
oppose them: 95 per cent, of turnover
to go to the players. But in his rural
policy he is keeping it all for the big
policy speech. (Perhaps a sample is the
demand by the rural wing of the party
that petrol prices be standardised
throughout the State —which would raise
city prices by 2d. but reduce country
prices by up to Bd.)
Mr Askin has every reason to feel
lucky. The only cloud on his horizon is
the influence on NSW voters of the
Federal Government's unpopularity.
But this was no problem for Mr Bolte.
“ —all right! all right! What's so funny?”


PLAIN ENGLISH
THE SNOWY DISASTER
PROBABLY the greatest fetish in
postwar Australia is the Snowy
River Scheme. It is taken as a
magnificently creative scheme in
itself and as a model for all future
planning. Yet. in his Forum article in
this issue on page 24. H. W. Herbert
raises the question whether, considered
from an irrigation and agricultural
point of view, the scheme will ever pay
off. If his argument is as sound as it
appears to be. the scheme will have to
be regarded as a great national disaster
and a model of the sort of thing to
avoid in all future planning.
One scandalous aspect of the scheme
that is definitely beyond dispute is the
fact that it was launched with only the
haziest idea of what it would cost and
of how much primary produce the
water would make possible —despite
the fact that the Commissioner. Sir
William Hudson, has stated that the
irrigation side of the scheme is “of
even greater importance” than its
hydroelectricity. There was no
thorough analysis by agricultural
economists of whether the same
amount of agricultural production
might have been obtained more
cheaply by some quite different
scheme. The fact is it almost certainly
could have. (Not that the farmers put
on the land will go broke: as Herbert
says, they can always be subsidised by
the taxpayers.)
Australia’s irrigation schemes are
usually built around crops, mainly
dried fruit, which in a high labor-cost
country are becoming so costly to pro-
duce that we may never be able to
sell them. Such crops are better pro-
duced in low labor-cost countries,
while we concentrate on wool or
wheat, which need irrigation water,
but not on the Snowy scale. In that
case, perhaps the best thing to have
done with the Snowy water is to have
let it run inexpensively to the sea and
to have used the £3OO million involved
in the scheme in a dozen other smaller
but more productive developmental
schemes which are screaming out for
attention. If the money spent on the
Snowy had been spent, for example.
on developmental roads we would now
have networks of highways all over
the country.
How did it happen? Firstly, because
we have romantic illusions that more
water will solve all our problems, so
that we should get the maximum
regardless of cost (as Herbert puts it,
this would be like the Japanese min-
ing every tiny seam of coal, no matter
what its cost, instead of importing it
cheaply); and secondly, because in the
postwar period all our planners were
infected with a sort of grandiosity, the
idea that mighty schemes are Good
Things, even if they are economic
failures.
The worst feature is the refusal to
discuss these matters. So many repu-
tations are involved in this scheme
that it is impossible to get sensible
discussion of it. H. W. Herbert made
his criticism two years ago at the
Annual Conference of the Australian
Agricultural Economics Society, and
no satisfactory answer has yet been
given. As Herbert says. “There are
signs of an autocratic and at the same
time puerile attitude over the Snowy
that ill befits Australia's largest public
work." It is not too late at least to
rectify this; it is certainly not too late
to abandon the thoughtless habit of
regarding it as being the correct model
for all future schemes. Careful plan-
ning and careful economic analysis are
the only sound basis for developmental
schemes.
Back to the Barricades
DESPITE fresh waves of three-
cornered terrorist violence in
Algeria and Metropolitan
France, a peaceful settlement
of the Algerian dispute is nevertheless
in sight. The problem is whether both
President de Gaulle and the rebel
Provisional Government will be able
to survive their peace pact.
Economically there are no great
difficulties. There is no doubt that it
wilt be well worthwhile to ‘‘buy out”
all the European settlers and finance
their re-settlement in France. What-
ever the cost, it will be cheaper than
fighting the hopeless Algerian war.
Politically, the overwhelming majority
of Frenchmen are in favor of a speedy
agreement with the rebel FLN. The
talks themselves appear to be pro-
gressing well, and both sides now seem
willing to make important conces-
sions. The fact that the negotiations
are being kept secret leaves both sides
some room for vital manoeuvring
which would have been impossible in
open discussions. From the obviously
inspired leakages appearing in the
French Press it appears that, since a
compromise has been reached on most
questions of principle, discussions
now centre on the technicalities of
implementing an agreement. The
French demand iron-clad guarantees
of personal safety for the European
settlers, and want a major say in the
provisional administration that will
control Algeria during the interreg-
num. Here there is room for clashes,
because these matters immediately and
vitally affect the lives of a million
European settlers and some eight
million Algerians.
The tragic aspect seems to be that
the FLN rebel Provisional Govern-
ment is not at all certain whether it
can ensure that any iron-clad guaran-
tees are carried out without the aid of
the French forces in Algeria. It must
be remembered that the FLN does not
fully control all the rebel groups in
Algeria. Its co-operation with the
communist-dominated extreme Left
wing and the rival pro-Nasser elements
was born out of sheer necessity. Its
relations with the small but well-armed
and violent extreme Right - wing
Moslem groups are no better. The con-
tinuing presence of some French forces
in Algeria would probably best serve


both the FLN’s and French aims, but
it could leave the rebel leaders open
to communist and Nasserite charges of
“selling out” to the “imperialists” and
give the Arab extremists a pretext for
provoking new violence. For the com-
munist group within the FLN, any
negotiated agreement with France
which would leave Ben Youssef Ben
Khedda’s nationalist regime in the box
seat spells disaster. In fact, it has
been said that Ben Khedda’s appoint-
ment as the rebel Prime Minister,
succeeding the moderate Ferhat Abbas,
was a major concession to the extrem-
ists, who felt Ben Khedda was more
militant and anti-French. However,
his subsequent policies have caused
bitter disappointment among the rebel
diehards.
On the French side, President de
Gaulle faces the continuous challenge
of the terrorist Secret Army Organisa-
tion, which had no difficulty in recruit-
ing the more rabid elements among the
French Army, police and administra-
tion in Algeria. In France the SAO
terrorists have made little progress, but
in Algeria they are elusive and effec-
tive and enjoy the active support of
most of the European settlers.
The SAO's most dangerous weapon
is its appeal to a section of the pro-
fessional military men—particularly
the top brass. The French Army has
fought incessantly since September,
1939, without winning anything that
mattered. It has won many battles,
but has lost all its great campaigns.
A section of the professional Army
feels “betrayed” and desperately wants
a smashing victory against anybody.
In the European settlers in Algeria it
has a cause, a rallying cry. and even
an ideology. The settlers themselves
feel they will never be able to lead the
same life in France as they have for
generations in Algeria. For many of
them ties with the French nation are
more remote than may appear at first
sight. Many of the “pieds-noirs” are
descendants of Greeks. Maltese,
Lebanese, Corsicans, Italians —fully
intermixed and integrated in their
native Algeria, but out of their element
in Metropolitan France.
If the French Army in Algeria suc-
cumbs to the SAO overtures —and
there are signs that the bulk of the
troops will remain loyal to the Repub-
lic —the European settlers may once
again rush to the barricades and extend
the war. But, if they feel that the Army
will obey President de Gaulle even to
the point of firing on them and any
troops who revolt, they will probably
acquiesce after sporadic rioting. What
the “pieds-noirs” cannot grasp is that,
whatever happens, their old way of
life can never return.
What the Left Hand Doesn't Know
THE BULLETIN has been taken
to task for its editorial “What
the Left Hand Doesn’t Know”
(January 20), which said that
something of a scare campaign was
now going on about ratbag and-
communist groups in America such as
the John Birch Society. The remarks
in this editorial about Americans for
Democratic Action, on rereading, may
appear to give a false impression. But
the general point still stands and seems
of sufficient importance to be restated
at greater length.
The general point is that, whatever
criticisms might be made of the
authoritarian and ratbag Right in
America, it should, nevertheless, be
realised that it is part of the stock-in-
trade of liberals of a certain kind to
foster scare campaigns and that these
campaigns are big-scale and do great
harm, discrediting by false association
and exaggeration people and policies
that should not be discredited. This
process is carried out not only in
America but all over the world, so that
there is almost all the time an agita-
tion that America is about to succumb
to hysterical authoritarianism. This
agitation condemns the innocent as
well as the guilty and helps conceal the
faults of those who make it.
For the moment the attack is
directed not only at Right-wing fringe
groups such as the John Birch Society
but at the whole Republican party, as
if it were about to be taken over by
the ratbags. This hysterical “liberal-
ism” is a travesty of the great liberal
institutions of American society and
may do a great deal more to undermine
them than the Right-wing groups it is
ostensibly directed against.
That these groups are misguided,
stupid and sometimes evil may be true;
but the untrue arguments used by their
opponents mean that in those who
most profess to uphold liberal ideals
there is an inbuilt dishonesty, a self-
righteous double standard that itself
fouls liberal ideas. It can produce a
virulent anti - anti - communism that
identifies all anti-communists with the
ratbags; it can become more important
to dissociate oneself from dishonest or
merely misguided anti-communists
than to oppose communists; it can lead
to a paralysis of the will that
reduces liberalism to an excitable con-
formity.
Although it should be clear enough
from what has already been said, for
the sake of prudence we must now
add that we consider that ratbag
fringe groups do harm to the discussion
of communism and action against it—
if they overstate or mistake their case.
The dangers of communist political
warfare are so great that it is almost
impossible to overstate them, but
where these groups often err is in find-
ing communism where it does not exist;
or by seeing it merely as an attack on
Right-wing interests so that the attack
on communism becomes linked with
the defence of certain extreme Right-
wing ideologies.
But to go on saying this for ever
and ever —salivating like one of
Pavlov’s dogs at a familiar stimulus—
is not the only task of liberalism.


Feiffer
H UIO p
MM urn. XH
ro walk Right
FAST HOU.
i <uou) mou vow we Me, K66ie amp
i WAMT w TO KUOU) THAT I TH/MK
au k&ht. i mr wamt r<?
CHAM6€ THAT (M &IT. UOU 956,1 DOW
' like 100 arm-
rTS NOTHING VERWtiM dOT 10 M 0
WR6 ATHREAT'TOtfS PO6S IZBti-
AMP MORS THAN) W 960916
WAUCIO6 WARP MS ON) 7HS STfeggr
ARS ALWAYS A THREAT/
i CAufNWA me at, i cam seceertM
ADMfRg a meAT-gur pomes
Mr £V£R %ROW UKB f\ mPAt
so wu see fack of
us m m meg
posirm.
i me wo iforewrioM of seoucm
W OUT Of 400 RS WITH FAi<£
PATU AMP l pout emcr WO
To FR!6HT6M Hi OUT OF MIU£
WITH THS6AT6W-
-106 POSTED.
i fML 6o My wam- to m
6ROCBPM 6TOR6 TO BUM
oOrT££ MILK - AMP TO MAM
60 YOUR WAM - TO YOUR CHOSOO
PgSflU AW
IK) ITS tOAM I AM
SURE, UO
itii HOIOOP-
ABL6 THAM
M!U6.
VO M6AMW6SS SHALL PASS
US. THOUO H we
part mot fmw c s, uoe ?m
CN\UI6V STRAW66'RS- l
600(?3we,(7^66^
iw som6 cir/es r owpsrstajoi?
6oiW6 oor om 'rue srpger
fSWT C7A.066R00S AT ALL.


FORUM
SNOWY ELEPHANT?
Too much emotion, too few hard facts
By H. W. HERBERT
In i 960 Mr H. IV. Herbert
delivered the most radical criti-
cisms ever heard of the Snowy
Mountains Scheme. Since they
have not been answered and
since the Snowy Scheme is still
often presented as a model for
future national planning, we are
publishing his criticisms as part
of The Bulletin's series of
articles on national develop-
ment.
The Snowy, as almost everyone
knows, would be a very large
scheme in any country, even in the
USA. It will be one of the world's
largest engineering works.
After a very indifferent start, which
caused some observers to say that the
scheme would never be finished because
there wasn't enough money in the world
to pay for it, there has been a remarkable
improvement in efficiency. World
tunnel boring records have been
set, dams constructed at high speed
(once day-labor was replaced by con-
tracts) and improvements in design and
operating plans have been claimed which
will offset the rise in interest costs from
3| per cent, to 5.1 per cent. This latter
point might indicate that the original
scheme, as approved, was very far from
perfect, if a 60 per cent, improvement
could be made in it during construction.
When, however, we come to look at
the scheme from the irrigation side,
either from the purely agricultural view-
point—how will the water be used? —or
more importantly, from the agricultural
economics viewpoint—will it pay? —we
find the most remarkable absence both
of facts and estimates about the use of
Snowy water.
This is not due to any official attitude
that irrigation is a minor part of the
Snowy scheme. In April, 1959, the
Commissioner, Sir William Hudson, still
said, as he has for years, that the irri-
gation side of the Snowy was “of even
greater importance” than its hydroelec-
tricity. Perhaps justifying this is the
fact that thermal power stations could
be built for half or less the Snowy hydro,
saving about £2OO million of capital.
The facts or official estimates that we
do have are these: the cost of divert-
ing water inland for irrigation (instead
presumably of letting it run down the
Snowy to develop the same power) is
£6O million. To this must be added the
cost of building the Blowering Dam
estimated at £l7| million and to be paid
for by N.S.W. ; and the cost of raising
the Hume Weir (unstated); plus the
provision of other headwork storage, if
any. There has been no official or un-
official estimate released, or perhaps even
made, of the capital cost of diversion
and distribution of the Snowy water at
the irrigation areas. We might try to
fill in this gap with a very rough esti-
mate based on the experience that the
capital costs of diversion and distribu-
tion are never less than the headworks
cost and are often double (or more)
the headworks cost. This puts them at
say £2O million to £4O million, assuming
that Blowering and Hume are the only
major headworks.
This gives a total capital cost of irri-
gation works of say about £llO million,
excluding work on the farms themselves ;
channels, levelling and drainage, which
would be considerable, but is unknown.
The annual amount of water to be
“made available” has been stated at 1.8
million acre feet, but it has not been
stated whether this is a guaranteed
amount in dry years. Probably insuffi-
cient meteorological and hydrological
data are yet available to be sure. Nor is it
clear whether “made available” means at
the headworks, the diversion dams or at
the farms ; and evaporation and seepage
losses can be very high in dry years.
How much will the Snowy water pro-
duce? We have two estimates. One
has been repeated several times by Sir
William Hudson, that it will produce
nearly £3O million worth of primary pro-
duce annually. I have been unable to
find how this is arrived at. The second
estimate was by the Bureau of Agricul-
tural Economics in 1953, that it would
enable an extra one million sheep and
50,000 cattle to be run on the Murrum-
bidgee. If we add something on the
same basis for the extra water being
diverted down the Murray we get about
two million sheep equivalents. This
carrying capacity looks low for the
amount of water, unless big losses are
going to cut the 1.8 million acre-feet
down.
But even double it to 4 million sheep.
At an optimistic £3 per sheep per annum
this still only gives £l2 million per annum
gross, a long way from the “nearly £3O
million” of Sir William.
Have I gone on long enough to make
the point? Here is a scheme, one of
the largest engineering works in the
world, still claimed to have its major
justification in irrigation rather than
power. Yet twelve years after the scheme
started we still only have the haziest
idea of what the total capital cost for
irrigation will be. We have no clear idea
at all of what the scheme is going to
produce with its water, and only a couple
of widely divergent estimates of what the
value of the produce will be.
This was a job, surely, if ever there
were one in Australia, that justified a
mass attack by agricultural economists
before ever the scheme was approved.
The hydroelectric engineers studied their
side very thoroughly, yet to the side
“of even greater importance”—irriga-
tion—no critical consideration was given
at all. It would have justified spending
millions in investigation. The same gross
or net value of agricultural production
might have been obtainable much
cheaper on some entirely different land-
development scheme —top dressing and
improved pastures, clearing brigalow,
fertilising wallum or sand plain.
T et us make a parallel in the commer-
cial world. Suppose a group of en-
thusiasts went along to the board of
Myers or Anthony Horderns and said,
“We want you to finance and build a
number of stores in districts we have
chosen.” The board asks if they have
detailed plans and cost estimates. “Oh,
no,” say the visitors, “but half a million
would get it started.” Assuming they
were not shown the door at that stage,
the board would ask what these stores
would sell, what turnover was expected,
what net profit and percentage on invest-
ment. “We haven’t decided what lines


should be sold,” say the visitors, “but one
of us reckons the turnover might be a
million, but he hasn’t any idea of the
net profit or the percentage on invest-
ment. We didn’t think you’d want to
know. Retailing is always profitable isn’t
it?”
Can it be as bad as that? Unfortu-
nately, yes. Well over £lOO million is
involved in capital outlay (not half a
million), or £3OO milion if irrigation were
the deciding factor in building hydro-
power instead of themal. Of course, it
is very rare for whole irrigation areas
to go broke. Once the farmers get into
difficulties they call for financial
assistance.
In the Snowy case electricity consumers
in Sydney are to be made to carry
£6O million of the capital cost of the
water scheme, and the State governments
of NSW and Victoria (i.e. the tax-
payers) will probably carry the cost of
the storage dams and the diversion
works. If more rice, dried fruit or
dairy products are grown with the water
that means additional help by protection
and subsidy.
We might pause to marvel how it is
that such a colossal scheme as the
Snowy got approved and twelve years
under way without any agricultural eco-
nomics analysis worth the name. If
the engineering work had been as rough
and chancy as this, the dams would be
in the wrong places and the tunnels
would wander aimlessly under the moun-
tains.
One factor seems to be the extra-
ordinary emotional attitude of most
Australians to irrigation schemes. In
this dry, flat, drought-liable continent,
irrigation is regarded as the white hope,
and it is regarded as a crime to let water
run away to the sea unused. That
is equivalent to the Japanese saying:
“Coal is one of our scarcest natural
resources ; we must mine every tiny seam,
no matter what cost.”
The agricultural economist who wants
to see if an irrigation project will pay
before it is built, or whether it would be
better to put the capital into something
else, becomes an obstructionist. Politi-
cians and irrigation engineers don’t want
to hear from him at all.
In the Snowy case it is still not too
late for a thoroughgoing economic
anaylsis of the irrigation plans (such as
they are) to be of value. It might lead
to greater or less diversion of water
inland. It is understood that the
EBASCO report on the Snowy had some-
thing to say about this. It seems
incredible that this report, the only
independent one made since the Snowy
started, should have been suppressed.
There are signs of an autocratic and at
the same time puerile attitude over the
Snowy that ill befits Australia’s largest
public work. On the electricity side, the
State Electricity Commissions of NSW
and Victoria had to fight their way in to
get a say in the development programme
and the charges for power, although they
are practically the sole consumers. The
Snowy Authority finances a most expen-
sive and effective publicity service, but
no economist at all.
Tt may be the best thing to do with
A some of the Snowy water is to let
it run inexpensively away to the sea.
Australia’s major irrigation schemes have
been built around crops, mainly dried
fruits, that are becoming more and more
costly to produce in a progressively
"Point of order, Mr Chairman !”
higher labor-cost country. There is so
much inescapable handwork in growing
and handling dried fruit crops that the
production of them should be allowed
to gravitate progressively to lower-wage
countries. The same is true of dairying
for export butter and cheese production.
Rice growing is as highly mechanised
in Australia as anywhere, but is still
unable to compete, on a true cost basis,
with Asian rice.
We must remember that we are not
looking for ways of finding jobs for
people, as we were in the 1930’5. The
criterion of a new development that
creates farms or jobs is now —what will
the net income per head be (shorn of all
protection and subsidies)? It should be
higher than the present Australian
average if we wish to lift our living
standards.
Irrigation pastures, to grow meat and
wool, on these arguments look a better
way of using the water over the long
term than crops.
A thoroughgoing agricultural economic
investigation of the Snowy at this stage
would follow thrs pattern. First, the
most profitable future use of the water
would be worked out in much more
detail than the rough outline just given.
If this arrived at the same conclusion—
that sheep growing was the most profit-
able use of the water, then a comparison
would need to be made between sheep
growing with Snowy water and sheep
growing elsewhere in Australia. A
rough outline of this is as follows. The
Snowy water, being provided at a capital
cost of £llO million plus say £2O million
capital irrigation work on farms, will
carry 3 million sheep, or £43 per sheep-
area. As an additional sheep-area can be
provided elsewhere in Australia at £2O
the scheme is an economic flop on the
full basis. Can it be altered, using only
the most economic water storages and
diversions, and most favorable irriga-
gation lands, to supply a lesser quantity
of water at a competitive sheep-area
cost?
This is purely a capital-cost approach
and should be combined with an opera-
ting-cost analysis, because distributing
irrigation water is a lot more expensive
than watching the rain fall.
It must be remembered, too, that from
the point of view of public funds agri-
cultural and pastoral development is
usually financed privately, at much lesser
cost to the tax-payer than the 100 per
cent, finance he has been in the habit of
providing for irrigation works.
If a thorough anaylsis confirmed the
above unfavorable picture of Snowy
irrigation, there is a clear case for press-
ing for modifications of the scheme, even
at this stage, to reduce the huge capital
outlay that would be made necessary by
the full scheme.


LETTERS
JOHN BIRCH
Sir.
Some crackpot managed to insert in
your “Plain English” pages in the issue
of January 20 a parenthesis identifying
“Americans for Democratic Action” as
“the Left’s John Birch Society.” For
the sake of your journal’s reputation
with a few well-informed and aware
Americans this imposture might be
worth investigating. If left uncorrected
it might make The Bulletin not ; .e-
-cisely a laughing stock for those few
Americans who chance upon it, but at
least an object for contemptuous dis-
missal.
The identification of the ADA as the
“Left” equivalent of the Birch Society
was, I believe, first made by Senator
Barry Goldwater, not himself a son-of-
a-birch, but chief clown of the Right
Wing of the Republican party with
Birchers among his constituents in
Arizona. The rest of the Republican
party is embarrassed by Goldwater’s
persistent refusal to make any firm or
non - evasive statement against the
Birchers. He keeps saying that those
members of the Birch Society he
in Arizona are “well-intentioned” people
whom he cannot fear as much as he does
the “Left-wing extremists” of the ADA.
These “well-intentioned” people are
those who are obliged to believe that
Eisenhower, Warren, the “New York
Times,” the Pentagon and probably the
Pope are all Reds. The ADA, on the
other hand, is a mixture of what Aus-
tralians would think of as liberal mem-
bers of the Liberal party and Right-wing
Fabians. To describe the ADA as “the
Left’s John Birch Society” is like saying
that The Bulletin under its present
management is the communist version
of the troglodyte Bulletin of a few years
ago. Far from Kennedy or the Demo-
cratic party having to “cover up” for
ADA “operations,” it was simply the
obvious political tactic for them to add
to Republican embarrassment by expos-
ing Goldwater’s double talk.
But how on earth did Goldwater
manage to plant someone in The
Bulletin office? Why did he bother?
The peculiar brand of sensational pre-
-1914 political impercipience, if not
insanity, associated with Goldwater, the
Birchers, and others more interested in
attacking domestic foes in the Demo-
cratic party than they are in Russia,
China or any real threat from com-
munism, could not be expected to win
much response at The Bulletin. Per-
haps you were mistaken for the Aus-
tralian version of “The National Re-
view, which would be as much as to
say “The Idiot’s Weekly.”
DOUGLAS McCALLUM
St Louis (USA)
CENSORSHIP AT THE
GENESIANS
Sir,
Your “Drama at the Genesians”
(Bulletin, February 3) was factual
in detail, but the deductions drawn
would tend to give a wrong impression.
It was regrettable that the spotlight was
directed on to the Cardinal. His
Eminence’s position and character de-
served better than the repeating of
inconsequential remarks made on a
social occasion—words no more perti-
nent than the “Wonderful, darlings”
heard backstage after curtain fall. Nor
was it important to gauge the depth of
His Eminence’s theatrical appreciation.
To me it is more important that the
Cardinal has on many occasions, pub-
licly and privately, complimented those
who built up the Genesian Theatre, and
that he has agreed with the ideas
expressed by myself and others like me.
This agreement he has underlined by
giving to the theatre so much practical
assistance.
As the person who suggested to the
Catholic Youth Organisation that they
should form the Genesians, I can correct
your assumption that they were formed
to “keep the youth out of mischief.”
My approach to theatre has always been
more positive than that. By me now is
the charter forming the Genesians and
giving its purpose as (a) the fostering of
dramatic activity in the CYO, ( b ) the
creating of a Catholic theatre. By 1949
it was obvious that (b) was the more
important, and, on my suggestion, the
simple administrative change was made.
All theatres operate a censorship in
some way or other. In the Genesian
Theatre, for 14 years, it was, in effect,
the friendly vetting by two people—one,
the producer, who understood plays, and
the other, the chaplain, whose job it was
to know Catholic principles. In this
way the productions reflected the policy
with which the theatre openly invited its
audiences. The plays presented and
accepted by the public over that period
emphasise the sensibility with which this
was done. The teamwork for which
the Genesians became well known was
in no small way due to the esteem in
which the chaplains were accepted by
the theatre and those who worked
with it.
Three years ago a new chaplain was
appointed. He was not chosen as a
result of any plan, and, in my opinion,
quite an accidental selection was made.
It should now be made clear that in the
minds of Catholics there is a definite
distinction between the priest, whose
offices are accepted without question,
and the man, whose opinions are weighed
as every man’s are. The new chaplain
was deficient in knowledge of theatre-
in itself unimportant. But he also com-
bined a lack of appreciation of theatre
with a temperament which made it
impossible for him to enjoy the confi-
dence of the laity in the theatre. Under
these circumstances morale was gradu-
ally destroyed and the theatrical standard
deteriorated.
The chaplain is an Archbishopal
appointee and the Cardinal has not made
an announcement of his reaction to this
situation. Obviously the columns of
your paper are not the proper place even
to speculate upon His Eminence’s actions
or to presume his reasons.
JAMES LANG
Killara (NSW)
THE RED AND THE BLACK
Sir,
There are two incompatible policies
for getting aboriginal people into modern
living —the Queensland paternal way,
which Mrs Langford eulogises (Bulle-
tin, February 3), and the Victorian and
NSW way of leaving the desires of the
aborigines themselves, freely given, be
the main guide for positive action.
In Queensland, aborigines coming
under the act live in huge settlements
like Cherbourg, where everything—shops,
jobs, dormitories is clean, efficient,
modern, antiseptic and free of charge,
but entirely run by white officials. Mrs
Langford describes this as an ideal vil-
lage, as hoped for in modern Russia,
forgetting that this ideal is only possible
where there is no freedom of choice.
In NSW, conditions are more chaotic.
Many reserves are in a deplorable con-
dition. But at least policy is geared so
that aborigine', even those on reserves,
have the final choice. Freedom is the


keystone. This means that individuals
leave reserves of their own will. The
more conservative ones prefer to stay.
Children go to public school, a grow-
ing number going on to High school.
(The Queensland mission schools are not
at Education Dept, standards.) People
move about freely, from reserves to
towns, as they wish. They may leave a
reserve at any time, but many do not.
In reply to Mr Cook, the importance
of voting is not altogether lost on the
aborigines of NSW. They vote in
Wagga, Wellington, Bourke, Boggobilla,
Cowra and, of course, Sydney. Had there
been adult education, the enrolments and
votes would have been much greater than
at present.
It is more difficult to administer a
“liberty” as compared to a paternal
system, but the future is more honestly
achieved. Is it better policy to do every-
thing for a man, including banking his
money, and then thrust him into the hard
world; or to offer him opportunities for
his willing initiative in seeking jobs? In
NSW, the tendency is not that unscrupu-
lous whites get to know the aborigines,
but members of well-organised advance-
ment leagues or assimilation associ-
ations, who will help the people on
reserves make their own future.
J. HORNER
(Hon. Secretary
Aboriginal-Australian Fellowship)
Sydney
STUDENT ACTION
Sir,
If this subject may have another air-
ing—in reply to J. C. King’s letter
(Bulletin, January 13) though he does
not feel an apology was needed in regard
to my being “irritated” by the unseemly
din which is all I could make of the
interruption made by Student Action dur-
ing the recent election meetings, I did
not realise it was the White Australia
policy which was the cause for such a
hubbub. I agree that this is a subject
which needs more clarification. Perhaps,
if the name were changed, the policy
would not require much alteration. It
is cheering to know that he feels it
inevitable as time goes on he will be-
come “conservative”, as he has summed
me up, but please not an “old re-
actionary.”
ALICE IRWIN
Coal Point (NSW)
“THE TILTED CROSS”
Sir,
Having just read Hal Porter’s “The
Tilted Cross” I am surprised and puzzled
at The Bulletin’s having permitted such
a pawky tarradiddle as Mr Ray Mathew's
contribution to pp. 37-38 of your Decem-
ber 9 issue to creep into print. Surely
“The Tilted Cross” is, underneath all
its polished surface attributes, a dish of
rawly bleeding meatl Why allow it to
be so lightly dismissed as a sardine
savoury? If it isn’t meat, 1 would enjoy
reading some critic’s considered opinion
as to why he thinks it isn’t.
Mr Mathew has exhibited his skill as
a skater of note. His attitudes have
piqued one’s interest. After tacking on
two paragraphs which leave one in com-
plete bewilderment, he then fades out
in a way that leads one to hope Mr
Mathew is now about to digest “The
Tilted Cross.” Well, has he digested it
yet? If so, is he man enough to admit
that he has made a sad “bloomer”?
Xavier Herbert’s “Soldiers’ Women”
was accorded two critiques by The
Bulletin. Does not “The Tilted Cross”
merit one objective criticism by a critic
of mental maturity? If not, I, for one,
would appreciate a clear explanation
from Mr Mathew as to what he meant
to convey by his last two paragraphs.
All he conveyed to me was the fact
that he had read “The Tilted Cross” and
misunderstood “The Tilted Cross” and
that, take it or leave it, he is small
enough to envy the achievement that has
brought to maturation one of the giants
(and I say “giants” consideredly) of
modern literature.
MARIE BEARE
North Balwyn ( Victoria)
NZ’s COTTON MILL
Sir,
The article by Pat Lawlor on the
cotton mill debacle in New Zealand
seems to me to imply that the only
reason for the abandonment of the
agreement was the “lobbying of high-
pressure groups.” And indeed this is
now the official line of the Labor
Opposition, that vested interests have
forced the Government to abandon the
establishment of an industry which
would have given employment to our
rapidly increasing population. The
opposition to the agreement was much
more widespread and the reasons for the
opposition were grave and important to
NZ:
1. The agreement gave in effect a
monopoly in perpetuity. Once “mono-
poly” was the bete noir of all good
Labor men, but as Chesterton pointed
out many times, there is essentially no
difference between the monopolist capi-
talist and a socialist. In both cases power
is concentrated in the hands of a small
group.
2. In NZ's present economic circum-
stances and in view of the implications
of Britain joining the EEC, our necessity
to develop new markets is so imperative
as to be vital. In return we would have
to buy from our new customers and both
logic and common sense indicate that
these would be in the East where cotton
goods form a great part of what they
have to sell.
May I also point out that the mill
was to be established at a time of
chronic labor shortage. Nelson is natur-
ally upset, but after all they did have a
vested interest in both the mill and the
railway and the Labor Government also
has a vested interest in both the
securing of victory in a marginal seat.
J. R. GAYNOR
Petone, (NZ)
WHARF HOUSE
Sir,
As a lover of history, I beg that you
will publish this letter in the interests of
future students. Colonel Newman’s
reply (Bulletin, January 27) to Mr
Ellis, pointing out at least six mistakes
in his review (Bulletin, January 13) of
“The Spirit of Wharf House,” impels
me to a further effort, since Mr Ellis’s
errors are not of a minor nature. As
an example, I quote one which Colonel
Newman ignored in his reply. Mr Ellis
writes that “the principal inhabitants
and officers of the regiment agreed to
appoint two or three persons to pur-
chase the whole cargo....” and goes
on to say, “As Campbell himself said
later, he was compelled to sell at the
inhabitants’ prices.” What Campbell
really said in answer to: “Who were
the persons that entered into that bond?”
was: “Principally the military officers ; it
was under that bond that I was forced to
sell my first cargo, when I came from
Bengal, at their own prices.” Campbell
did not use the word “inhabitants” in
this respect. However, Mr Ellis uses
it without justification to detract from
the fact that it was the military officers
Campbell referred to.
I have checked page 364 of Ellis’s
“John Macarthur” and Newman’s page
63 of “The Spirit of Wharf House” and
find the meanings of the two paragraphs
quoted re the reason for Bligh’s over-
throw identical, so why does Mr Ellis
deny writing “anything of the kind”?
I have read the evidence of Palmer be-
fore the select committee of 1812 and
find nothing that could be reasonably
interpreted as supporting Ellis’s conclu-
sion that “there was no monopoly of
rum by the NSW Corps and Civil
Officers.” Again, I have read the evidence
Campbell gave at the court-martial of
Colonel Johnston for mutiny against
Bligh, and I find he was not asked any
question to which he could have re-
plied, as Mr Ellis suggests, that he was
unable to swear whether officers of the
NSW Corps traded in rum, let alone
had a monopoly.
The whole of the review of this fine,
interesting and factual book, then, is
founded on distortion of evidence and
misquotation.
STELLA SCROGGIE
Vaucluse (NSW)
WHAT’S WRONG WITH PLAYS
Sir,
The perfect play, I suppose, has a
small cast of more women than men, one
ordinary set, three acts to leave intervals
for coffee, and a “good story.” What
about the language of the play? Oh,
that doesn’t matter much: the actors will
say their own version of what the play-
wright has written, anyway.
The play I described in “Tears on the
Typed Page” (Bulletin, December 30),
“The Virgin of Treadmill Street,” is an
imperfect play, in which it resembles
“King Lear.” “Perfect” plays are written,
after years of practice in the craft, by


BSP
ssSS
t &
1%
' •••
:•
Am /(0J SIHI
HOH2M
No textbook can teach you to SPEAK a foreign language
correctly. To do that you must HEAR the rhythm, the
lilt, the everyday speech by ordinary people. Lingua-
phone teaches you by this quick, thorough, effortless
method. You learn by LISTENING to the voices of
expert native teachers on gramophone records, following
the words in the illustrated textbook. In half the usual
time, this method enables you to SPEAK, READ and
WRITE the language—and above all, to understand it
when spoken. There is no formal learning. From the
start you are thrown into the conversational atmosphere
of the boulevard and cafe.
Put In fifteen min-
utes a day, and in
a few weeks you
can express yourself
freely in the lan-
guage of your
choice. Find out all
about the unique,
modern method of
learning. Post the
coupon below for a
free illustrated
booklet describing the Linguaphone language courses
and Week's Free Trial Offer.
Linguaphone
For LANGUAGES
- POST THIS TODAY”
Linguaphone Institute Pty. Ltd., 1 Fleming Place, off
359 Tittle Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me without obligation your free, illustrated
booklet of the Linguaphone method of learning languages.
I am interested in FRENCH Q GERMAN Q ITALIAN [J
SPANISH □
or
(34 languages available)
NAME ..
ADDRESS
B. 10/2/62
people like the author of “The Reluctant
Debutante.” I don’t suppose they do any
real harm. But those who connect the
theatre with an interpretation of reality
surely expect a playwright to be mainly
concerned with something more than
this limited sort of “perfection.”
I was sorry to have hurt Norman Mc-
Vicker, director of the Pocket, because
he has put on some Australian plays,
and one by David Ireland, author of
“V.0.T.5.” But Mr McVicker takes
offence where none is intended. There
is no stigma in my use of the word
“amateur” —it is just a defining term.
Nor would 1 expect the Pocket (though
“Moby Dick” was done there) to put
“V.0.T.5.” on its small stage. The chief
reason I wish this play had emerged
from a competition is that it might have
been done by people who could give it
a revolving stage or, at least, a big one.
But my gun is my gun still. This play
contains writing of a high order, and
its merit has not been recognised. There
are other plays which contain very good
dramatic writing, and we need to be able
to recognise them. I have no solution
of the Australian playwright’s problem.
But I see clearly that one of his obstacles
is that people can’t always read play
scripts and see what their possibilities
are ; that they stick in grooves and want
to teach the playwright his business;
that they will not seriously consider
that he may, once in a while, have
achieved something that makes it worth
while to do his play even though it
seems faulty. “Hamlet” is staged in
spite of all those soliloquies and that
impossible length.
Kevon Kemp says (“What’s Wrong
With the Theatre,” Bulletin, January
20) that the writer should take his plays
to the theatre people. He does, you
know. But theatre people say, and it’s
true, that they already have a number
of scripts they have not had time to
read; one cannot keep making copies
of one’s plays to give away to theatre
people who don’t return them, or return
them only after a long time —six months
to two years—or when you have asked
for their return ; and then, pretty cer-
tainly, they are fished out of a cupboard
where they have lain “unloved and
unwanted” indeed.
Norman McVicker asks why I have
not put on “V.0.T.5.” myself, since I
think it the forgotten child of Australian
drama. Part of the answer is that I
think it only one of a number of
neglected plays. David Ireland is young,
and will make his way in time ; some of
the other writers are older —one is 70.
Again, I am only a member of the com-
mittee of my amateur theatre, not its
director, and am not a very good pro-
ducer, either; the only opportunity I had,
in 1961 since I read “V.0.T.5.,” to pro-
duce an Australian play, I used, selfishly,
to put on one of my own that no one else
would do: I said it was a comedy, and
no other producer I gave it to thought so,
and we did it, and people laughed, which
pleased me, and I don’t apologise fcr it.
Most of the playwrights I know do
belong to or attend Little Theatres, and
go backstage to work or talk sometimes.
But when you have a wife and family to
keep friends with, and a fertile brain
that is forever urging you to write new
stuff, you can give only limited time to
activity in the theatre itself. Everyone
who works in the theatre knows what a
time-consuming activity it is, and how
often one is hanging round waiting to
do something, talking. Talk can be
good ; but creative energy can be dissi-
pated by it, and some writers—lreland,
though he belongs to a theatre, is one-
instinctively know this and have the
character to abide by their knowledge,
My critics have not included in their
objections to my article any reference to
what matters in it—the analysis of a
certain passage of playwriting and of a
certain style. If someone would debate
about that, either to find deeper signifi-
cance than I did, or to object to my
findings, I should be grateful,
EUNICE HANGER
Brisbane


A NIGHT AT THE OPERA
By DON WHITE
COVENT GARDEN is best approached by
Southampton Street from Australia House in
the Strand. It owes its name to the fact that
hereabouts was an old garden of Westminster
Abbey. The area was laid out by Inigo Jones
as a residential neighborhood. Inspired by the
Piazza d’Arme at Livorno, it was completed in
1638. In 1671 the piazza became a market in
a small way by right of charter from the
landowner, the Duke of Bedford. It is now
London’s largest market for fruit, flowers and
vegetables. At six in the morning Covent
Garden is a gorgeous sight—especially when the
spring flowers are in. Its main work is over by
II a.m. On the north side of the market is the
ROYAL OPERA HOUSE, built by Edward
M. Barry in 1858 and incorporating statues
and reliefs by Flaxman and Rossi, which were
on the previous theatre built on the site in
1808.
T M completely fruit for opera. A lot of
other things, too, but especially opera.
Which is how I came to be lying in the
gutter in Covent Garden’s Floral Street
at 3 a.m. last week. In a sleeping bag,
of course.
The dark-haired Darling Point girl who
was seven in the queue (I was six) rolled
into a more comfortable position on the
pavement and summed it all up. "1
dreamed 1 queued all night for gallery
seat tickets to hear Sydney’s own Joan
Sutherland sing the title role in Handel's
little-known opera ‘Alcina’ at Covent
Garden in my Maidenform Bra,” she
said, and went back to sleep. She used
to be a copywriter at Farmer’s. You
couid tell.
I couldn’t sleep.
It wasn’t the snow. No, it wasn’t the
cold. No. it wasn't the truckloads of
cabbages, kale and cumquats rumbling
past every minute on the minute. No.
It was because here 1 was in London
and up to my neck in real live British
tradition! And all by accident. Because
of Brussels sprouts, actually. And only
74d. per lb.
I mean, there was I, walking casually
down Floral Street on my way to the
vegetable market, when I see this poor
fellow stretched out in the gutter under
a callous sign that read GALLERY —
BOOK HERE
1 hastened to render him aid. He waved
me away. “I’m two in the queue. For
the next opera booking season,” he ex-
plained.
It was four o’clock in the afternoon.
The box office opened at 10. Next morn-
ing. “You’d be six if you put your name
down now,” he said, indicating a pink
card pinned to the gallery door.
Who needed to think twice? I put my
name down, then panicked. “Must I
stay here for the next 18 hours?” But
no, he assured me, just so long as I got
back before midnight. “After all,” he
told me, “One is at the pictures,
three and five are at work and four's the
manager of the tea bar over the road. He
closes up at midnight, then sells his place
in the queue to someone at the back.”
At 11.30 p.m. the gallery queue had
swelled to more than 60, shuffling their
feet in the snow, wishing they’d stayed
in bed. At Floral Street’s other end the
amphitheatre queue wound tortuously
past the stage door. At the front of the
House, opposite the Bow Street police
station, a fur-coated few braved the
elements luxuriously for stalls and circles,
Number one stretched luxuriously in his
“I'll probably get a knighthood for this”


deck chair, only eyebrows and a trilby
on view above the eiderdown up round
his neck. Mr Schofield. Everybody else
in the queue was Ted. Or Leo. Or Joan.
Or Peter. But number one was Mr Scho-
field. He snubbed me at first. An upstart.
A newcomer, how DARE I be number
six in the queue! Outrageous!
He thawed some when he learned I
was from down under. “Florence
Austral’s Australia! ” he exclaimed
knowledgeably, “Joan Sutherland country,
the land of Nellie Melba. . .”
“. . . the home of Joan Hammond,” I
added, with pride, “and the garden that
grew Gladys Moncrieff.”
He didn’t speak to me again.
At half-past midnight, two offered me
a cup of tea, without milk, if I cared to
take his kettle down to the gents’ near
St Paul’s Church for water. Did I tell
you he had a primus?
Three, Peter, was a little Hungarian
with a goatee beard, who wore his hair
like Yul Brynner. He was forever dart-
ing backwards and forwards like a dis-
turbed humming bird. “It’s really too
much for me,” he confessed at 1 a.m.
“I’m three in the gallery, six in the
amphitheatre and 22 in the stalls. I know
I shall have a nervous breakdown long
before 10 a.m. comes —if it ever does
come.”
“You must be fond of opera,” I
volunteered.
“Are you joking!” he swore, goatee
waving dangerously. “The only time I
ever set foot in Covent Garden opera
house was in 1944, when it was a dance
hall.. . and all I got out of that was a
paternity suit! Some people . . .” he
muttered to himself, hurrying off to take
his place for half an hour in the amphi-
theatre queue.
Two explained, “Peter's our most
famous scalper. You know, buys up
the good seats then sells them for double
or treble, night of the performance. He
had his picture in the papers last week.
Got £25 for a “Magic Flute” stall. The
one behind the pillar, too!”
Eight was a middle-aged lady named
Joan who had never missed an opera
performance since Nellie M’s absolutely
final farewell performance in 1926. All
her friends seemed to be young men with
problems. Sample conversation (recorded
verbatim): “Oh, Joan, you’re a positive
cow if you’re really going to take the
C slips for ‘Ballo’ on the 4th. I’m per-
fectly willing to let you have the third
‘Alcina’ A slips, right side, in exchange.
You will? Oh, you’re a divine
creature, Joan. Prepare yourself.
I’m going to give you a big kiss.” And
they did. No, I don’t know what it was
about, either.
Came the dawn. It was rather late
getting there, but, then, Britishers do
funny things with their clocks in winter.
The hour from 7.30 to 8.30 was the long-
est. The cramp, the aches, the pain, the
discomfort, and snow isn’t pretty when
you’re lying in it. Then at 8.30 a little
man in Bolivian admiral’s uniform came
down the queue and handed out tickets.
Mine read :
GALLERY
QUEUE TICKET
SIX
10 a.m.
Two filled me in. “Now you can go
away for an hour and a half and break-
fast or grog on or do anything that
tickles your fancy. Just re-present your-
self here at 10 and buy your tickets. . .”
Miss Darling Point and I went to Aus-
tralia House to snatch 80 winks between
us in the reference library.
The snow was starting to melt when
we got back, and just after 10 a.m.,
quietly, orderly, traditionally Britishly,
without fuss, I got my tickets.
I walked toward Covent Garden
underground (on the Piccadilly Line,
closed on Sundays) with two and seven.
“Don’t . . . don’t the police or anyone
MIND bodies stretched all around
Covent Garden at nights? Aren’t there
ever any disturbances?”
“Not really,” said two carefully. “I’ve
been queuing for nigh on 15 years. I
can only recall one disturbance.”
That was, he told me, not long after
the war. About three o’clock in the
morning it was, see. This long, stream-
lined American limousine draws along-
side the gallery queue in Floral Street.
A curly-haired American woman gets
out and a couple of musicans and goes
into this sort of song and dance routine.
“I’m gonna wash that man right out of
my hair, I’m gonna wash that man right
out of my hair,” she sang, “I’m gonna
. . .” and so on.
She apparently washed this man
right out of her hair, stopped,
smiled. Not a murmur. Finally,
one of the Bow Street policemen who
had been watching the goings-on went
up to her and said: “ ’Scuse me, Miss
Martin, I think you want the ‘South
Pacific’ queue. Two blocks round the
corner in Drury Lane.”
Two shuddered. “It was all terribly
un-British.”
He waved goodbye at the corner. “See
you next Monday night?” he asked, and
was gone.
“NEXT Monday night?”
Seven put me in the picture.
“I dreamed I queued all night for
gallery seat tickets to see Dame Margot
Fonteyn dance the role of Odette/Odile
in Tchaikowsky’s ‘Lac des Cvgnes’ at
Covent Garden in my Maidenform Bra.”
“Oh,” I said.


BE MY VALENTINE
We told artist Robert Hughes to have a heart, so he went off and wrote
some sentimental verses which he thinks some well-known people
should send to other well-known people on February 14.
THE SHAREHOLDERS IN
STANHILL INVESTMENTS
LIMITED
TO
MR KORMAN
Our love is fickle as the day
And as the wind untrue,
This morning down to 2 s. 6d.,
Tomorrow, is. 2d.
For all of us have ceased to hjiow,
And some of us, to care :
Would anybody like to buy
One splendid lead-edged share?
MR CALWELL
TO
DOCTOR SOEKARNO
If I were Prime Minister
I’d slap you down, my sweet,
Because you’re acting sinister!
(If I were Prime Minister
And if there were an Air Force
And an Army, and a Fleet . . .)
“HOLLYWOOD GEORGE”
EDSER
TO THE AJC
I love my brothers of the turf
The boobies and the punters, too :
But most of all 1 love the fact
That none of you can sue.


NEIL HUTCHISON
TO
PATRICK WHITE
We love you, Patrick, at arm's length:
You think us fickle and unsteady,
But then, that’s our own funeral
And we’ve too many hams already.
A TRUSTEE OF A STATE
ART GALLERY
TO
AUSTRALIAN ARTISTS
Some say my mind has run to fat
But I recall my inner glow
When last I saw a wor\ of art,
rhough that was thirty years ago.
THE PRIME MINISTER
TO
TWO SENATORS
Observe, / wear a smile for you,
You two nice chaps across the Floor :
/ would not love you, dears, so much
If Cal well loved me more.


i ; ymonds had two years start
I i over me at Melbourne Uni-
| i versity, as well as being ten
j I years older, so he appeared
VV I assured and knowledgeable
j \ when I first came across
' j him, seated with a copy of
Joyce’s “Ulysses” in his lap, outside
the old Arts building. His
sloppy attache case was so much more at
home than my stiff-leathered one, just as
his emerald corduroy sports coat, brown
trousers of the same material, khaki
shirt and loose, green woollen tie were
perfect camouflage in that setting of
sandstone and grass, whereas my navy-
blue suit was conspicuous. “Moran!”
He remembered me even though we had
met only occasionally at trainee teachers’
woodwork classes some years before. His
eyes glistened behind his rimless spec-
tacles, his lips, unparted, turned up at the
ends as if with secret satisfaction as I
approached.
In the ensuing conversation he
gave me to understand that he was
more intelligent than the lecturers, but of
all the claims he made I can remember
only one because even then it struck me
as odd: “I must be the only person
here who is reading Joyce for the ninth
time.” He explained to me the Barney
Kiernan's pub episode of “Ulysses” with
Bloom-Elijah charioteering heavenwards
like a shot off a shovel ; I was impressed
by Joyce but more so by Symonds.
The combination of naivete, prejudice
and principle with which a Christian
Brothers college and a middle class
Catholic family had endowed me caused
my consternation when, some months
later, Symonds bailed me up in the Union
House corridor.
“Catholic girls,” he said, “well, do they
or don’t they?” I gave him an answer
all the more elaborate, objective and dis-
creet for my subjective state of siege.
Even in such a short time at the univer-
sity I had loosened up, the dark suit
which my parents considered appropriate
had given way to sports clothes but
Symonds was one step ahead of me: he
sported a silk, cinnamon-colored cravat
tucked into his golden velvet shirt and its
blandness was just what I expected of
someone acting as the devil’s advocate:
I had heard him recommend free love.
Well, did they or didn’t they? He was
not trying to embarrass me, he was
anxiously seeking information but I was
too flurried to realise it.
I understood why he had sought my
advice only when I saw him in the
library whispering with Terry Muldoon,
whose seven years at Sacre Coeur convent
had made her Catholic with a capital C.
Her French-rolled black hair, composed
gait, pert features and complaisant
expression made Terry irresistible for
students: she was a beautiful, closed
book promising entry to an exotic world
for those who would understand her. I
knew because I had spent months trying
to decipher the text only to decide that,
even though presented in a de luxe
edition, it was humdrum.
I supposed Symonds merely enjoyed
finding a new audience for his spiel and
would be temporarily satisfied by Terry’s
way of listening to everything with
saucer-eved admiration. But they were
together until the end of the first term
the following year and as soon as they
broke up I knew, for Symonds emerged
from a lunch-time group at Jimmy
Watson’s wine saloon to corner me and
tell me the story. He said that in order
to salvage a foundering relationship he
had booked a passage to Sydney on the
Strathnaver when he learnt that Terry,
during the first term holidays, would
make the trip. He described the voyage
with a one-sided intensity, but I could
see it all clearly, even to his Zeus-like
smile as he waited at the top of the gang-
way for Terry to arrive on to the Strath-
naver. The smile faded as she was
followed on board by her pouter pigeon
of a mother and her flinty-faced father,
whose eyes x-rayed the sailors’ intentions
to see if there were any bone of desire
pointed towards his daughter and, finally,
located Symonds.
“Big surprise to find you here, Paul.”
Like: next a few of the cancered organs,
gall stones and perforated intestines I
keep under formalin in my surgery will
be up and making the trip to Sydney.
Nothing like my surprise in seeing you,
Dr Muldoon, Symonds would like to
have replied. But Terry opened her eyes
even wider with pleasure without, of
course, losing her composure. She flushed
with excitement as if everyone on Princes
Pier had come to see her off and Symonds
was sure his initiative would be rewarded.
Trancing, playing table tennis or deck
quoits, Symonds was always with
Terry, who had no time or chance to
find another partner. Enthusiastic,
ungainly, bombav-bloomered, he revelled
in the deck games in company with the
sun-suited Terry while Mumma Muldoon
exchanged confidences with a woman she
considered of her own class and the
Doctor, cloth-capped and squint-eyed,
peered towards the horizon as if he were
the navigator. The trip was brief but it
assumed a timeless quality for Symonds:
he did not want to see any end to slipping
past the green, level, sand-skirted coast-
line, to a Dr Muldoon and wife rendered
innocuous by the euphoric atmosphere,
and to Terry who made him feel less a
bookworm and more a man. But there
was an end to it. The night before they
entered Sydney Harbor, Terry walked
with Symonds along the games deck and
there told him, with overwhelming com-
posure, that it was all over. Then the
great body of sea and scatter of stars
seemed senseless to Symonds, he wanted
to stop the onrushing ship, he cried in
spite of himself until his grey eyes were
veined red.
As he recounted the scene I feared he
was about to bawl again, this time into
the wine and cheese, so I told him Terry
had given me the brush-off the year
before. This was calculated to placate
the fellow who sat trembling as if he had
caught malaria in Sydney. Not only had
I come to suspect Symond’s intelligence,
for I was on to “Ulysses” by this stage
and even though it is the opium of under-
graduates I recognised there was some-
thing odd about Syntond’s addiction to it,
but I doubted whether one I presumed
was a Don Juan would have any depth of
feeling. But here he was in front of me
with the wound inflicted by Terry still
bleeding into the wine.
“Why did you get the ‘brush-off’?”
He paused before that toxic “brush-off,”


OF SYMONDS
AS A MIDDLE-AGED
ARTIST
Short Story by
Desmond O’Grady
as if to clamp sterilising inverted commas
about it.
“She’s stuck-up, bourgeois ideas, I
didn’t have enough money ..
“Ah,” he slumped in his chair, cough-
ing. “Anyone can make enough money
to change that, but she discovered I’m
a Jew.”
He became a Jew there and then for
me. I gauged the length of his nose:
long, all right, but not the hooked beak
I expected of Jews. He claimed to have
come from England but now 1 realised
that England had probably been only a
staging camp on his way from central
Europe to Australia. I also recalled his
exegesis of the Barney Kiernan episode
in which Christk iller Bloom ascends
chariotwise to Heaven. Prejudice told
me that Jews stuck to their synagogues
or owned ragshops. you didn't find them
among your friends. Obviously, a
Catholic girl could not marry a Jew
unless he became a Catholic. Without
compunction 1 said as much, but added as
consolation that Terry was as vacuous as
a doll. He smiled like a man who has
just had a rusty knife jabbed in his guts.
His trembling ceased, his light brown
skin acquired a yellow tinge, his voice
was soft.
“You’d really like me to wear the star
of David again?”
He squeezed my hand as if to imprint
his flesh moistlv on mine.
His aching smile survived.
“What do you mean?”
“You know very well, don’t you?’
“No, I don't deal in riddles. How the
hell would I know anything about your
past?” Of course it wasn’t only his past.
“You know what I mean though,”
He took his attache case, folded like
a newspaper, and walked from the
saloon. I knew then, even though I con-
firmed it only later, that on his arm a
concentration camp number was neatly,
indelibly inscribed.
I stayed sipping wine and a sense of
failure. The revelation had been too
rapid for me, the shock had made me
shoot off a charge of dogma and a salvo
of prejudice. If he had passed himself
off as a somewhat supercilious culture
vulture how could I
suddenly get him in-
to focus as a victim
of persecution? His
accommodation with
his past looked grot-
esque: a victim of
institutionalised evil
who believed that
devotion to “cul-
ture” was sufficient.
And the suave man-
of-the world image
had at the same time
been destroyed by
his distress over rejection by a pert
youngster. What I kept telling myself
was that when he had let the mask
drop for a second a narrow-
minded smart alec had smashed a fist into
his private face. In my anger at reveal-
ing my limitations I exaggerated: it
was truer to say that I was shocked at
the man revealing his suffering like that,
I took it almost as indecent exposure
and tried to hide my horrified disap-
proval, my distaste by turning my gaze
away. He had humiliated me by leaving
the table ; he had taught me a lesson and
the growing pains of youth are excruci-
ating. For the first time, I stayed drink-
ing for hours in a conscious and futile
attempt to ensure that I would wake next
morning with a black weight in my head,
which would make me forget everything
that had happened that afternoon.
Out I could not forget the things he had
implied even though, by design or
chance, he rarely was with me for any
time during the remainder of the year. If
he lived without access to his past, I
asked myself, what sort of drastic do-it-
yourself brainwashing kit did he employ?
This question got no answer when, the
following year while he was studying for
the Diploma of Education, he subjected
me to an intelligence test.
Symonds stumbled across me lying in
the sun on Number 2 oval and explained
he had to test someone for an educational
psychology assignment. I agreed because
I was curious to see what Symonds,
previously so avant garde intellectually,
made of the diploma course. I discovered
that he was swallowing the intellectual
pap they feed education students as if it
were a sustaining diet. Undergraduate
attitudes had to be set aside ; this was
serious, this was real, this was his
career. As I have never had patience for
crossword puzzles, I found the mental
obstacle-race he set me tedious but com-
pleted it for I could sense his satisfac-
tion. I got nothing in return however:
every reference to Terry, to his past, was
deflected and even I could see that
callousness was being repaid with
reticence.
I saw him only once more at the
university. It was during winter term and
columns of education students, marching
towards buses which would take them
on an excursion, passed me as 1 entered
the grounds from Grattan Street.
Symonds detached himself from them to
tell me I had scored only 117 in the IQ
test. His eyes shifted from my face to an
intriguing blade of grass. “I was a bit
disappointed, Dermot. 1 thought some-
how you’d do better than that.” He
sounded sad but his expression seemed
to suggest I should spell my surname with
two O's. Then he was with his group
again, heading for the buses.
I watched him go. in his too long, grey,
belted, gabardine overcoat, as in a fade-
out, a final farewell, until he was indis-
tinguishable from the others in the group
and finally the buses carried the happy
party away. He had every right to be
disappointed in me but the feeling was
mutual. For me teaching meant the
short-circuiting of experience, the thwart-
ing cycle of school, university, school
which encased you in an adolescent world


all your life, and Symonds had succum-
bed. I feared this fate. I would show I
could do something other than teach. A
disappointing IQ of 117 or not, I rea-
soned that if I had enough intelligence for
an arts degree I had too much for an
education diploma. I went to London
where I did a bit of everything, even,
though it hurts to admit it, teaching. I
added up the bits and pieces and found I
was a painter so, after seven years, re-
turned to Sydney before coming here to
Cairns a few months ago. Australia com-
placently refuses to recognise my talent,
so, like a proper prophet, I have headed
for the wilderness. Cairns is a rather
lush desert but cheap, and a pleasanter
place to make or break in than London
—articles on art and cartoons are sup-
posed to supply banana money while I
get my essential truth on canvas. If I
don’t make good in six months I'll have
to teach, or work in an insurance com-
pany. What immolation! I hope to derive
masochistic pleasure from it all my
life. But this to to run ahead of Symonds
and it is his story, even though he does
move at tortoise pace.
I offered the Sydney ABC a series of
talks on my views of contemporary
painting and ended up rehashing my
travel experiences and some I had heard
of. or read about, for “Travellers’ Tales.”
One afternoon when leaving the studio I
recognised a figure silhouetted against
the windows at the far end of the recep-
tion room. Yes, it was Symonds, in
cotton slacks and T-shirt. He was deliver-
ing a television play in verse and he
asked me what 1 had been up to in the
last eight years. When I men-
tioned painting he said, ‘But so have I,’
and insisted I dine at his place.
I had to hand it to Symonds, he could
surprise me even in his dullness. His
home conformed to the burgundy carpet,
reindeer-blasted-windows stereotype and
he had acquired a wife, Sadie, who had
made it a cosy little Jewish refuge. It
was Friday, so I ran into gefullte fish, but
there were other dishes unknown to me
and I was wary of them. As he
passed me the bread I noted the blue
concentration camp number stencilled on
his forearm. Symonds looked so smug
with his home comforts, his simple,
hamishe Sadie, that no one would believe
that he had ever experienced, or aspired
to, anything different. It was a triumph
of assimilation. As stories of teaching
triumphs and tribulations do not make
sparkling entertainment I hoped to get
away early after the meal, but, no,
Symonds ushered me into his study while
Sadie attended to the dishes.
A university-poet friend of mine who
took up journalism now reads nothing but
science fiction ; Symonds had evolved
diversely. I pretended not to notice the
heroic paintings which crowded the
walls: my instinct told me who was the
artist and I guessed he was responsible
for the misshapen sculpture that stood
on a small table.
“Don’t stand there, Dermot, sit down, sit
down,” said Symonds, busily amassing a
pile of papers. “These will interest you.”
I looked through them all —an outline
for a surrealistic ballet, sheets of music,
a clutch of cartoons, an attempt at a
blank-verse tragedy, a sheaf of nebulous
poems. I cannot read music, but I
scanned the rest like a trapped man.
Symonds, wispy hair at his temples and
so little on top that he looked middle-
aged, sat on the edge of his chair with
his knees almost touching mine: I felt
he was examining me once again.
“Yes, I’m ready now,” he told me, “I’ll
hit the papers with those cartoons. I
started today feeding my stuff into the
ABC; that’ll be another outlet, but I
don’t know if there’s a company here
good enough to handle the ballet . . . .”
T wished the room were bigger so that
I might walk about and somehow
avoid telling him his work was the most
arrant, airy-fairy nonsense I had ever
seen, all of it, from go to wo. He was
pleased when I began by saying I did
not know he had such wide interests, but
gradually he sensed the undertow.
He was disappointed in me again, he
told me so, sadly. I took the cartoons as
the least ambitious work and told him
that, although I would not have believed
it possible, he had produced cartoons that
were neither topical, humorous, satirical
nor polemical. He had achieved this
because they, like the rest of his work,
were an escape into a never-never world.
At that time the experience of having my
own cartoons rejected by Sydney news-
papers was new enough to hurt —I was
sure Symonds would have no chance.
I told him his art would have to be based
on his experience, including pain and
suffering, and he knew I meant not merely
Terry but his whole past. To hear me,
anyone would think I was a born teacher:
it was a heavy homily, but I felt I owed it
to Symonds. Still, I didn’t expect my
words to have any effect. Usually I don’t
make the effort and when I do I regard it
as so much wasted breath. It was more
than likely he could never express himself
as an artist and, in that case, he would be
better employed helping Sadie with the
dishes.
He listened without liking it: he must
have known it was true. I left his home
certain that I would not be invited again
to admire his works, but I cannot live
in the same city as Symonds without run-
ning into him. I saw him every
now and again ; he always told
me of his latest project, of imminent
productions and publications of his
work, while I managed to give an
impression of success. A “thing"’
developed between us, the sour aftermath
of a relationship made up of chance
encounters and thwarted attempts at
closer contact. It expressed itself in
jocular, taunting exchanges in which we
would acknowledge everything but our
motives—his need to prove his work
would be accepted, mine to show that
teaching and domesticity were millstones,
whereas I had devoted everything to my
art.
Before I came to Cairns I knew what
was going on in all fields in Sydney, so
I heard repeatedly of rejections of his
work but never of its acceptance. Since
I left, a friend in a press-cuttings service
has looked not only for any mention of,
or work by, me but also for anything of
Symonds. She sent me her first cutting
only this morning and for a too-brief
second I thought one of my cartoons had
been accepted. Instead, I find that, at
forty, submerged, romantic, homey
Christkiller Paul Leopold Symonds, 8.A.,
B.Ed (Melb.), has (O Elijah!) won
through, spoken his first word . . . .
bloomed. The cutting is of a cartoon
and, though the drawing is weak, the
message is clear. There are two figures,
a man and a woman. A table with a
few drinks standing on it, three balloons
hanging from the wall and the paper
masks the couple have just removed
indicate that it is a party. Each of the
masks consists of a long, hooked nose.
The man is laughing to see that the girl,
in reality, has a pert nose, but the girl
is not laughing at all. She is looking
with distaste, disapproval, even horror
at the man, for his nose, even without
the mask, is long, hooked, Semitic.
Now I know exactly what I feared
about teaching: your pupils, even the
most unpromising, grow up, become men,
while you-—you become an expert in your
subject.


“ Crusades! Crusades! Why don't you learn to live with the world as it is."


The Wild
Cat Pages
EXPORT SURPLUS
A BREATHING SPACE
FINANCE BUSINESS ECONOMIC COMMENT INVESTMENT OIL AND MINING
'T'he Federal Government’s hand will no
A doubt be strengthened by the
encouraging £123,982,000 trade surplus
for the first six months of 1961-62, which
was largely responsible for Australia's
first favorable quarterly balance of pay-
ments in two years.
Of course, higher wool prices and
increased wool purchases by Japan, the
Belgium-Luxemburg customs union, the
United States, Italy, Poland and West
Germany helped. But by and large the
big trade surplus (compared with a
£117,031,000 deficit in the same period
of 1960-61) reflects the healthy effects of
the Federal Government's painful boom-
breaking measures on the national
economy.
Australia’s present favorable foreign
trade position should help Mr Menzies
in resisting some of the more extrava-
gant demands for import restrictions and
outright “pump-priming'’.
Those who demand sweeping import
restrictions should pause to consider the
dangerous effects of excessive protection
on our foreign trade. It is unrealistic to
expect the Japanese to step up their
intake of Australian products and at the
same time be faced with mounting
restrictions on their sales to Australia.
Moreover, protection of the less efficient
industries soon results in raising the
over-all cost structure and making all
our exports less competitive.
’II7ooL exports for the six months to
December, 1961, rose by £30,659,000
to £182,560,000. Japan was again our
largest customer, taking 202,212,000 lbs
of greasy wool valued at £54,255,000
(170.592,000 lbs valued at £42,555,000 in
the first six months of 1960-61). This
was well above the United
Kingdom's greasy wool purchases, which
rose by £167,848 to £26,320,000 —but on
a lower quantity of wool (down 9,395,000
lbs at 108,276,000 lbs). Wool purchases
by communist countries showed a varying
pattern -the USSR and Rumania bought
considerably less wool, Czechoslovakia
and Yugoslavia reduced their purchases
slightly, but sales to Communist China
(up £2,092,000 at £3,041.000) and Poland
(up £1,549,000 at £4,079,000) increased
appreciably.
It seems clear that Japan intends to
remain Australia’s main wool importer
and that the cuts in Japanese wool pur-
chases last October were only a temporary
measure, dictated by some serious
balance of payments difficulties. The first
fortnight of 1962 wool sales was marked
by strong Japanese bidding, supported by
keen competition from the Continent,
Eastern Europe and the United Kingdom.
Representing as it does an indisputable
achievement of the earlier deflationary
policies, this trade surplus should not
encourage complacency. Although ex-
ports rose from £445.1 million to £535.6
million, the £150.6 million fall in imports
was the more important factor in achiev-
ing a favorable trade balance. And
measures taken to reactivate the economy
will probably lead to a higher demand
for imports. The balance of payments
figures also indicate that there has been
a substantial outflow of private capital
from Australia in the three months to
December 31, 1961.
It is to be hoped that the Government
will use the breathing space provided by
the favorable trade balance to formulate
a dynamic economic programme based on
encouraging exports and the basic indus-
tries, and not yield to the clamor for
artificial inflationary fillips.
NEW ZEALAND
A UNION WITH AUSTRALIA?
In a world where national sovereignty
■*- must of necessity bow to the dictates
of everyday economics, it is becoming
increasingly difficult for many small
nations to retain their independence.
Among Commonwealth nations, the sight
of an independent dominion voluntarily
forfeiting its independence is indeed rare
—though not unprecedented. Most
people will recall the quiet and orderly
way in which Newfoundland became
integrated as a province of Canada. Now,
here in the Pacific, events are rapidly
reaching a climax that could result in
New Zealand becoming a member of the
Australian Commonwealth. Initially,
any such move would commence in the
form of a Customs Union between the
two nations —with full political and
economic integration following.
Few Australians would find fault with
any such proposal, but there are many
New Zealanders who for reasons of pride
and sentiment would bitterly oppose any
form of amalgamation with Australia.
However, since Britain’s almost certain
entry into the European Economic Corn-
munity literally threatens New Zealand
with economic disaster, the majority of
people in the Dominion would probably
favor amalgamation when they recognise
it to be their last remaining hope of
economic salvation.
What makes the Dominion so vulner-
able to any loss or reduction of its
traditional British market, is the very
limited range of products available for
export. Butter is the backbone of the
export trade. Since May, 1961, the price
paid by Tooley St for New Zealand
butter has been well below actual cost of
production. As a consequence, subsidies
from the Consolidated Fund to the
Dairy Export Marketing Board now
exceed several million and cannot con-
tinue at the present rate indefinitely.
In addition to butter, the Dominion
exports in quantity milk powder, mutton,
lamb, wool and hides. In recent years,
timber and wood products have come to
play an increasingly important role as
substantial earners of foreign exchange.
Blessed with a favorable climate that
includes an abundant rainfall, NZ


Do you know how
A “FAMILY
TRUST”
would benefit
your dependents?
Your Estate, whether it consists of real
estate, a business, or investment holdings,
may attract much higher Death Duties than
you think—leaving far less than you
imagined for your beneficiaries.
Expert advice on Estate Planning, and the
setting up of a Family Trust, designed to
meet your persona! requirements, can
result in appreciable savings through
reduced Tax and Death Duties, and help
conserve your assets, both during your
lifetime and afterwards.
Appointment of the Company as Trustee
of the Family Trust ensures competent
counsel and management of all matters by
specialists—at moderate charges.
Why not examine, without delay, the advan-
tages of such an arrangement—in a
confidential discussion of your financial
affairs?
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l
20 O'Connell St., Sydney
398-402 Queen St., Brisbane
also at Newcastle, Albury, Toowoomba,
Rockhampton and Charleville
Please send me your “Estate Planning ” folder.
NAME
ADDRESS
UT33a.B2N
farmers are in the fortunate position of
being able to graze their stock outdoors
throughout the year. It is doubtful if any
country in the world can produce butter
as cheaply as New Zealand. It is
equally doubtful if any country finds its
products so costly to market.
IVew Zealand’s present day dilemma is
due almost wholly to the fact that,
since ceding from New South Wales in
1841, the Dominion has been developed as
a source of cheap food for the British
market —principally by British capital.
This policy worked reasonably well while
Britain was in a position to influence the
pattern of world trade. Now, however,
New Zealand’s importance as a source of
cheap food has greatly diminished. Most
other European countries with agricul-
tural surpluses are anxious to do business
with Britain. Denmark and Eire as sub-
stantial butter producers cancel out New
Zealand’s lower cost structure by pro-
ducing a better quality end product.
In reviewing New Zealand's trade with
Britain, it should be stated that whereas
the Dominion exports 85 per cent, of her
exportable commodities to the UK
market. Britain’s total volume of trade
with the Dominion amounts to less than 5
per cent, of annual exports. But this 5
per cent, accounts for the bulk of the
Dominion's imports.
With the development of heavy
industry in Australia, NZ has turned
increasingly toward Australia as
an alternative source of supply. Today
Australia supplies NZ with large quanti-
ties of steel, her total requirements of
wheat and gypsum and the major part of
all wire and corrugated iron imports.
But although it is possible for NZ to have
a favorable balance of trade with the UK
—it is different with Australia. Perplexed
Government officials realise that New
Zealand has few export lines which may
interest Australians. One of the few
exceptions is cheap softwood and
paper pulp, now being exported to
Australia in ever increasing quantities. In
the immediate past, there has been a
tendency on the part of the Common-
wealth Government to take the NZ
market for granted. This is very
dangerous thinking. Unless Australia
does something positive to redress the
imbalance of trade, there is a distinct
possibility that NZ will shop elsewhere
for certain basic requirements. Japan
has been mentioned as a likely alter-
native. And as Japan buys large quanti-
ties of NZ dairy produce her bargaining
position is pretty strong.
Tn any given year, New Zealand must im-
A port sufficient goods and raw materials
to meet the consumer requirements of her
people. During 1961, imports
were slashed by 50 per cent., with the
result that life in the Dominion today is
very austere. Only by borrowing heavily
overseas has New Zealand been able to
ward off widespread unemployment.
In any examination of realistic alter-
natives, the question of diversifying the
economy can be ruled out. Possessing
very little in the way of mineral wealth,
the Dominion is tied to its grasslands for
better or worse.
The alternative most frequently men-
tioned as a substitute for the traditional
British market, is Asia. Unfortunately,
market surveys conducted in this area
reveal that, while the area has undoubted
long-term prospects, development will
be costly and will show little return for
years. The African sub-continent is
much the same. Only in North America
is there a promising immediate market.
Americans and Canadians can afford


; i:
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated, in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Fnnrls Exceed
£A363,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEi, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON. N.Z.
lamb —but even they must be coaxed into
eating it regularly.
In his New Year message to the NZ
people, the Prime Minister outlined the
difficulties facing the Dominion. In a
sober review cf export earnings—and
their drastic decline —he mentioned the
Government’s efforts to find and secure
new trade outlets. Significantly, there
was no promise of better times over the
horizon. Mr Holyoake knows better
than anyone in the Dominion that things
will get worse before they get better.
r T'His bring us to the least discussed
but most logical of available alter-
natives. New Zealand, owing to her
precarious economy, cannot hope to sus-
tain the high standard of living her
people demand in today’s trading con-
ditions. Without being unduly optimistic,
it would be fair to say that even in a
bad year the Dominion will earn her
keep—but only just.
The question of a union with Austra-
lia has been mentioned in the past, but
as yet few take the matter seriously.
"I' ll say it's strange I don't usually smoke."
However, although at present it is a hazy
idea, it is no more unrealistic than the
idea of Britain entering the Common
Market was, say, seven years ago.
A first step in the right direction would
be a Customs Union. Such an agreement
would allow Australian manufacturers
unfettered entry into the NZ market.
The potential of this market can best be
gauged from the success of General
Motors-Holden. Cars are selling at an
average premium of £225. which promp-
ted one motoring concern to forecast
that, without restrictions, 5000 to 10,000
Holdens could be sold in New Zealand
each year. Most Australian manufac-
tured goods could compete more than
favorably both with regard to price and
quality against the products of NZ
industry. Indeed, owing to the Govern-
ment’s policy of taking protectionism to
ridiculous extremes, a great number of
industrial concerns are uneconomic.
The future of Australia and New
Zealand may prove to be as inextricably
bound as the past, sharing as we dc a
common language, tradition and heritage.
The problems associated with the incor-
poration of New Zealand into the Com-
monwealth may prove many and varied
but none are insoluble. Whatever tne
future may hold, one unified nation
embracing people from the same family
will prove a far stronger unit economi-
cally than two such nations that compete
not only against the world —but against
each other.
PATRICK O'SULLIVAN
Auckland (New Zealand)
NEW SOUTH WALES
COAL EXPORTS RISE
A N increase of 1,036,000 tons in export
sales absorbed most of the 1,247,000
tons rise in NSW coal production in
1961. Statistics released by the Joint
Coal Board show that coal output in
NSW last year reached 18,984,000 tons,
or 81,000 tons for each possible working
day (72,000 tons in 1960). Although
overseas coal sales continued to increase
satisfactorily, interstate exports declined
by 326,400 tons. However, NSW con-
sumption of coal increased by 233,000
tons. The State's coal stocks rose by
392,800 tons for the year.
Japan's importance as the principal
importer of NSW coal increased signifi-
cantly. In 1961 Japan imported
2,387,000 tons (up 1,014,300 tons), com-
pared with total export sales of 2,590,200
tons. French New Caledonia, the next
best customer, imported 72,100 tons
(down 59,400 tons). Pakistan—a new
market —absorbed 52,400 tons.
Southern coalfields remained the chief
supplier of export coal to Japan
(1,264,500 tons), followed by the northern
coalfields (1,122,700 tons).
Employment in the industry decreased
by 982 to 11,933 during 1961. but
re-engagements were higher than dis-
missals in the first weeks of the current
year.
Iron and steel industries were the
largest consumers of coal in NSW
(5,128,600 tons), followed by electricity
generation authorities (4,057,800 tons),
railways (872,200 tons) and city and town
gas generation bodies (774,800 tons).


f
7f
p
6
$
m »
* ■;
m m
V.
** *♦
2P*
:Xx.:'
te-
ll
%
*
P*S
Hi
*
m
s*
FACTS AND FIGURES
RECORD YEAR WITH
4F3
m
&
OF A
THE
RECORD-BREAKING EXPANSION. The 85th Annual Report of the T. & G. shows that new business
written over the last financial year totalled a record £74,966,923 —£6,465,046 increase over the previous
year’s new business.
UNSURPASSED SECURITY. The financial position of the Society is unassailable. Assets are more than
£176,000,000 and increased by £11,000,000 over the last year.
HELPFUL SERVICE. The T. &G. has been built on unexcelled service to its members. During the year
nearly £ 1 5,000,000 was paid to policyholders.
PROOF OF PUBLIC FAITH. The T. & G. has now over £546,000,000 of Assurances in Force
indisputable proof of public faith in T. & G. integrity and service.
ASSOCIATION WITH INDUSTRY. The T. & G. continues to co-operate with industrial and commercial
organisations in providing Superannuation and Group Assurance schemes for employees on most attractive
terms.
COMPLETE PROTECTION. The T. &G. provides a complete assurance and insurance cover. Annual
premium income for the T. & G. Fire and General Insurance Company has increased to more than
£360,000.
m
m
c
Society
The Australasian Temperance and General Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited.
(Incorporated in Victoria, 1876.)


COMPANY REVIEWS AND NOTES
ROTHMANS OF PALL MALL
SALES, PROFITS, DIVIDEND RISE
'T'he remarkable penetration of the
cigarette market by the Rothmans of
Pall Mall (Australia) Ltd group is con-
tinuing, and must be now posing urgent
problems for its competitors. Only two
years ago Rothmans held about 25 p.c.
of the market. The company’s sales in
1960-61 period are claimed to exceed 47
p.c. of the total market, with an increase
of 50 p.c. on the previous year’s turn-
over. Meanwhile, Sydney and Melbourne
factories continue to work two full shifts
and all possible overtime to meet the
growing demand for the company’s
brands.
“Rothmans” filter is easily the best sell-
ing cigarette on the market, and is claimed
to outsell all other filter cigarettes by at
least 2 to 1. “Peter Stuyvesant” is
becoming more and more popular and
sales more than doubled in the three
months to June 30, 1961. “Rembrandt”
—“a longer and cooler smoke” —pro-
duced in “porous” paper does not seem
to approach the success of the other
brands. “Rothmans” plains do well in
their market, despite increased competi-
tion from local and overseas brands.
“Carlyle Extra,” released in July, 1961,
is a blended cigarette—“bright leaf and
hurley—with just a touch of Turkish”—
and is doing well.
Spearheading the company’s successful
attack on the market was a vigorous
advertising campaign. Turnover bene-
fited from the interest aroused in filter-
tipped cigarettes by the lung cancer scare.
Rothmans spectacular rise in the Aus-
tralian cigarette market has been mainly
at the expense of British Tobacco Co.
Aust. Ltd and some imported brands.
Godfrey Phillips has lifted its sales
a bit by elaborate advertising. With the
lifting of import restrictions imported
cigarettes have made some headway—
in so far as local products have not
matched their characteristics.
A situation like this could not be
taken lying down by the competitors.
Heavy price cutting would be a less effec-
tive response by British Tobacco than the
development of counter brands. In
November, 1960, British Tobacco’s
W. D. & H. O. Wills began marketing a
new “Craven ‘A’ ” —“the clean cigar-
ette” —filter in competition with Roth-
mans.
Working on the assumption that no
cigarette manufacturer will survive in
a market without a big sales volume, the
company right from the start preferred
to chase sales rather than earn limited
profits from a modest turnover. Pro-
duction has lagged behind demand and
“abnormal costs” were incurred in
attempts to boost output. By June 30,
1957, the company had incurred a deficit
of £587,000. In its third term of opera-
tion to June 30, 1958, the co. earned a
net profit of £252,439. Even better results
followed.
Consolidated net profit for the year
ended June 30, 1961, rose by £79,586 to
£1,207,914, after writing off £323,521 for
depreciation (up £136,561), and providing
£809,000 for taxation (up £80,400):
To-Re-
June, Loss. , Dividend serves. Deficit.*
£ p.c. £ £ £
Goodwill, etc., £125,616 .. .. 125,616
Preliminary expenses, etc., £43,301 .. 168,917
1956.. 196,220 365,137
1957.. 222,362 587,499
Added goodwill, £79 .. .. .. 587,578
Profit.
1958.. 252,439 252,439 335,139
Share & note issue exp. w/off, £43,478 378,617
Added goodwill, £415 .. .. .. 379,032
Consolidated Figures.
Reserves.*
1959.. 684,119 10 168,750 515,369 136,337
Share-issue expenses w/off, £5,350 . 130,987
Preliminary expenses, £313 . . . . 130,674
1960. .1,177,603 15 316,406 861,197 991,871
Tax adjustment, £43,925 .. .. 947,946
Preliminary expenses w/off, £772.. 947,174
1961. .1,207,914 20 506,250 701,664 1,648,838
* After deducting intangibles, £589,078 at 30/6/61.
This represents an earning rate of
47.7 p.c. on ord. capital as compared
with 55.8 p.c. in 1960, 40.5 p.c. in 1959.
The dividend rate was lifted from 15 p.c.
to 20 p.c., taking £506,250.
Income-tax was short-provided in the
previous year by £43,925. However, con-
sidering that the sales rose by 50 p.c.
to over £75 million, the profit increase
seems modest.
Reserves increased by £656,967 to
£1,648,838, after deducting £43,925 tax
adjustment, £772 preliminary expenses
and £589,078 intangibles including
£125,758 goodwill and trademarks.
Following a prudent policy, Rothmans
decided to distribute only approximately
one-third of its accumulated profits,
building solid reserves for contingencies.
Paid capital at June 30, 1961, was
£2,531,250. During the current term
shareholders participated in a one-for-
two share issue at par—which, with the
high premium enjoyed by Rothmans
shares, is almost as good as a bonus
issue. Paid up capital now stands at
£3,769,875.
Amounts owed to associated com-
panies increased by £897.266 to
£1,042,448. Bank overdraft was
£1,690,938 (nil in 1960 and 1959).
Creditors (including short term loans,
deposits and £809.000 tax provision) rose
by £3,467,918 to £8,752,020:
Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Paid capital— 1959. 1960. 1961.
Ord £1,562,500 £2,531,250 £2,531,250
Deferred . . 125,000
General reserve 500,000 1,000,000 1,500,000
P. and 1. account 224,330 580,177 737,916
Due to asso-
ciated cos. .. 86,929 145,182 1,042,418
Peg. notes . . 335,000
Advances .. 251,962 422,794 295,662
Overdraft . . - 1,690,938
Creditors, etc.* 2,652,813 5,284,102 8,752,020
Final div. .. 101,250 189,844 253,125
£5,839,784 £10,153,349 £16,803,359
Freeholds .. 655,660 1,096,529 1,923,858
Plant .. .. 1,099.754 1,858,726 2,737,706
Investments .. 352 352 65,352
Stock .. .. 2,732,247 5,484,784 10,490,715
Book debts .. 456.296 897,169 907,102
Cash . . . . 227,433 192,483 2,324
Prepayments and
deferred expen-
diture .. 80,049 35,000 87,134
Intangibles .. 587,993 588,306 589,078
£5,839,784 £10,153,349 £ 16,803,359
* Includes deposits and tax-provision.
Assets are valued conservatively. Plant
rose by £878,980 to £2,737,706 (after


Pick up a better return
with complete security
P.A. for 8 and 10 years
with
HEID MURRAY
Acceptance Limited
Reg. First Mortgage Debenture Stock
SHORT TERM NOTICE STOCK
7 Va^o
P.A. on 12
mths, notice
PA. on 6
mths. notice
P.A. OR 3
mths. notice
4°/o PA. at call
Applications accepted only on forms at-
tached to the Prospectus. Available from:
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 1924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Me9tJ.
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William Street, Adelaide
408 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of Stock Exchange of
Adelaide Ltd.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £7,000,000
RMA.aai*
GUARANTEED BY REID MURRAY HOLDINGS LTD.
depreciation). Investments increased by
£65,000 to £65,352 —mainly comprising
investments in private companies. This
item is expected to increase during the
current year. Stocks, mainly of tobacco
leaf, almost doubled .to £10,490,745.
Book debts increased by £9993 to
£907,162.
Net tangible asset backing for the 20s.
ords. at June 30 last was 335., decreasing
to 28s. Bd. a unit after the one-for-two
share issue.
New premises completed in Melbourne
can be claimed to be one of the most
modern and efficient cigarette factories
in the world. At Ipswich in Queensland,
the company has completed a large
tobacco treatment plant and stores at a
cost of £225,000. In Adelaide and
Hobart warehouses and offices were
finished by June, 1961. Additional offices
and stores for the N.S.W. branch are
well under way at Granville near Sydney.
Estimated cost is over £lOO,OOO.
The company is facing higher internal
costs ; wage rates have increased by 20
p.c. since the beginning of operations.
Cost of tobacco blends has risen by more
than 20 p.c. during the same time. Other
materials used have suffered the normal
pattern of cost increases. Machinery costs
rose by 25 p.c.
Thus Rothmans of Pall Mall Aus-
tralia Ltd. began a policy of diversifica-
tion. A £500,000 wholly owned subsid-
iary, Pall Mall Investments Pty Ltd, was
formed to provide finance for small
businesses and home building. Another
subsidiary. Investment Administration
Pty Ltd, w'as set up to deal with applica-
tions for loans and to supervise invest-
ments. The general policy is to acquire
equity interests in established private
companies with sound prospects for
expansion.
Export rights are being negotiated over
a substantial part of the Pacific area.
Economic upheavals in 1961 did not hit
the cigarette industry as severely as some
others and did not reduce the demand
for quality brands. During the last few
months of 1961 Rothmans sales increased
and it is more than maintaining its share
of the market.
The outlook for the remainder of the
current year is promising. However,
Rothmans’ splendid rate of growth may
slow down. The latest results show that
lifting turnover can be an expensive
business in a keenly competitive industry
with narrow profit margins.
The company “has not reached the end
of the road” in regard to further share
issues, but shareholders should not
assume that an early issue is imminent.
At the last sale in Sydney the 20s.
ords. changed hands at 945. a unit. The
immediate return is 3.2 p.c. on the basis
of the higher 20 p.c. dividend rate.


Dtl
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT Co. Ltd.
Financier . . , Established 1882
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
Interest payable quarterly through the Bank of N.S.W.
Free of Exchange.
DIRECTORS:
W. R. Schofield (Chairman)
T. H. M artin Dr W. F. Pattinson
Alternate Directors: R. V. Agnew, G. L. A. Donohoo
Trustee lor Debenture Stock Flolders:
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited
APPLICATIONS AND PROSPECTUS
Applications will be accepted only on one of the forms
of application attached to the printed copy of the Pros-
pectus which may be obtained from:
9 All branches of the Bank of New South Wales in New
South Wales, Australian Capital Territory, Victoria,
Queensland.
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange, or
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
Head Office: 74 Castlereaah Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 4521-2-3.
AND BRANCHES
Underwriting Brokers :
RALPH W. KING Sc YUILL
(Members oi the Sydney Stock Exchange)
20-22 O'Connell Street, Sydney
84 William Street, Melbourne. 340 Queen Street, Brisbane
BROKERS IN VICTORIA
Clarke & Co., 450 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
BROKERS IN QUEENSLAND
Charles Elliott &: Son, 356 Queen St., Brisbane
(Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
BROKERS IN CANBERRA
T. J. Thompson & Sons, C.B.C. Chambers,
Petrie St., Canberra.
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
.
2
PER ANNUM
FOR 5 YEARS
EE
6 months
4‘
12 months
61
•\*
3 years
0S
9 months
6*
2 years
E
4
years
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charier A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £177,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the economic
growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O’Connell Streets, SYDNEY
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
DICKSON PRIMER (CONS.) LTD
GROWTH ON DIVERSIFIED BASE
Dickson Primer (Consolidated) Ltd is
one of the most diversified companies
in Australia. Its interests range from
cement to television and heavy electricity
plant. The value of diversification was
proved when the company came out of the
credit-squeeze in an even stronger posi-
tion than before.
The company was established in 1922
and by 1950 built up an imposing array
of agencies in a wide variety of products,
In 1951 the present public company was
formed and acquired the whole of the
issued capital of 10 different subsidiaries,
On formation, 200,000 20s. shares were
issued to vendors and another 50,000
offered to the public at a premium of 10s.
each.
Up to 1958 capital was unchanged
except for an issue of 36,000 shares at
3s. 7d. premium to finance takeovers. In
June, 1958, shareholders got their first
capital benefit in the form of an issue of
71,500 20s. 8 p.c. notes, convertible into
ordinary shares in June, 1963. In 1960
the company split its 20s. shares into ss.
units.
Early in 1960 the company embarked
on an expansion programme which in
twelve months more than doubled capi-
tal from £286,000 to £688,823 and
enabled further diversification. First of
a rapid series of takeovers was the
acquisition of Carra Elliot Pty, Osborn
Hardware Pty and Henry Lane Ltd by
the issue of 197,254 20s. shares, 19,872
20s. 1\ per cent convertible notes and
about £350,000 cash. Less than two
weeks later the company acquired another
hardware merchant Nash Holdings
Pty by the issue of 220,000 ss. shares.
Another expansion move, this time
into South Australia, was the acquisition
of Ezy-bilt Ltd and ADA Manufactur-
ing Co. Pty for 48,369 ss. shares and a
cash payment. Early in 1961, 350,000
ss. shares were placed at a substantial
premium to finance production in Aus-
tralia under licence from Hardware Corp.,
of the UPA. Shortly after, it acquired a
half-interest in Rondon Manufacturing
Co. Pty, producing multi-panel sliding
doors.
At the end of last term the company
was operating through 24 subsidiaries
in all States of Australia and in New
Zealand. Shares are held in Fiji Indus-
tries Ltd, formed to manufacture cement
in Fiji.
Principal lines include building
materials, such as cement and timber,
heavy electrical equipment, machinery,
non-ferrous and other metals, plastics
leather, mica, felt and builders’ hardware.
It holds the NSW agency for C.S.R.
building boards, and is the sole NSW
distributor for Standard Portland Cement
Ltd, marketing over 20,000 tons of cement
a month. The company also handles
steel rails and accessories made by B.H.P.
One of its most profitable moves has been
into the TV servicing field, in which
it is now the largest operator
in Australia, in 1956. Diversification
was widened with the acquisition of two
drilling engineering firms specialising in
foundation testing and site investigation.
The wide base of operations in 1960-61
was quite able to absorb the credit
squeeze shocks, although the year was
not an easy one for management. Profit
for the year ended June, 30, 1961,
doubled —from £78,427 to £142,710 —and
compared with £54,099 and £51,862 in
the two previous years.
The earning rate was not able to keep


John N. Robertson, Thompson
and Co.
Members of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS,
Temple Court,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Telephones: 67 6154, 67 6155
Telegrams and Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
A, l. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members o) Brisbane Stock Exchange')
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Oround Floor,
The National Mutual Fife Building,
291 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 312761 P.O. BOX
(4 lines) No. 18871 V
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
K. H. ALLEN. M. R. E. DOWLING,
P. K. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS, N. R.
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner).
Delfin House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building:, 150 Queen St.,
Melbourne, 67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney
Melbourne or Woolongong.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you properly
covered? Now is the time to
review your insurances. Serious
financial losses can result on private
and business premises that are
improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IS YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your
fancy write to the Manager, who will
quote you a price for the original.
up with the rapid growth in capital and
slipped from 27.4 per cent, to 21 p.c.
—still better than 18.9 p.c., 18,1 p.c. and
17.1 p.c. earned in the three previous
years:
Consolidated Accounts.
To. Re- Re-
Junc Profit. , Dividends. serves, serves.*
30 £>£,£,
1959 . . 54,099 12 p.c. = 34,320 19,779 389,227
Capital profit, £Bl5 . . . . . . 390,042
Unexplained addition, £20,595 . . 410,637
1960 .. 78,428 15 p.c. = 42,900 35,528 446,165
Reserves of new subsidiaries, £158,130 604.295
Intangibles w/o, £9500 .. .. 594,795
Share premiums, £194,033 .. .. 788,828
Capiial loss, £31,874 756,954
Revaluation loss, £4238 .. .. 752,716
Unexplained addition, £33,446 .. 780,162
1961 .. 142,710 15 p.c. = 101,749 40,901 827,123
* Subject to intangibles, £6,861 at 30/6/61.
Dividend was held at 15 p.c. for the
second successive year. Reserves bene-
fited by a transfer of £40,961 from profits,
and £158,130 reserves of subsidiaries
acquired during the year. Premium on
the shares issued in takeovers brought
in an additional £194,033. Against this,
£9500 intangibles were written off, in
addition to unexplained falls of £31,874
in capital reserve and £4238 in revalua-
tion reserve. Total reserves and undistri-
buted profits stood at £827,123, subject
to £6861 intangibles.
The consolidated balance sheet show's
that the enlarged group bears little resem-
blance to that of a year earlier. The
expansion is reflected in every heading
in the accounts. Freehold and plant were
trebled, from £486,138 to £1,340,571
(subject to mortgages up from £117,733
to £271.100). Stocks increased from
£387,091 to £1,180,892. Book debts were
£659,672 higher at £927,740:
Consolidated Balance Sheet.
1959. 1960. 1961.
Ord. capital .. £286,000 £286,000 £688,823
Reserves .'. .. 389,227 416,165 827,123
Overdraft.. .. 102.810 138,065 360,227
Creditors .. .. 297,839 339,708 911,872
Taxation . . .. 26,028 41,489 142,792
Final div. . 17,160 24,310 51,662
Convertible notes. . 71,500 71.500 91,372
Unsecured notes . . 200,000
Mortgage .. 51,000 117,733 271,100
Outside shareholders 500
£1,241.501 £1,461.970 £3,545,471
Freehold, plant . . 303,027 480,138 1,340,571
Investments . . 147,967 210,267 84,126
Stocks .. .. 248.985 387,091 1,180,892
Debtors .. .. 358,050 268,068 927,740
Cash . . *, 3,068 4,922 5,281
Intangibles .. 179,867 108,484 6,861
£1,241,564 £1.464,970 £3,545,471
Expansion called for large funds and
these came from greater dependence on
bank overdraft (£360,227, up £222,162),
creditors (£911,872, up £572,164) and
£291,372 convertible and unsecured notes
(up £219,872). Theoretical working capital
rose from £116,509 to £647,360.
The board still has a big task ahead
to consolidate all its new . interests.
Control of the group calls for a multi-
plicity of training and experience. But
on past performance the directors should
be equal to the job. Last year the slump
in homebuilding caused a setback to
some subsidiaries. But with the gradual
Pickup in this field the company is well
placed to take full advantage of the
improvement. The TV servicing group is
also assuming greater importance as
transmission extends to country areas,
and the city receiving sets age. Export
business, while fiercely competitive, has
plenty of scope for expansion.
The shares have shown an improve-
ment recently and are currently selling
at 16s. to show a dividend yield of
4.7 p.c. and an attractive earning yield
of 5.9 p.c. Net tangible assets backing is
10s. lid. a unit.
EAST-WEST AIRLINES
NEW RECORD
"P ast-West Airlines carried a “record
number'’ of 122,956 passengers during
the year to December 31, 1961. Mr J. G.
Riley, the company's general manager,
said that this was 2.6 p.c. more than in
the previous year. Freight flown during
the year amounted to 1,643,867 lbs,
compared with 1,645,804 lbs in 1960.
The company also carried 264,241 lbs of
mail (up 38,461 lbs or 17 p.c.).
HUNTER DOUGLAS LTD
"SUN CONTROL"
TTunter Douglas Ltd 20s. ords. were
A last traded in Sydney at 40s. 6d. each,
for an immediate return of 4.9 p.c. p.a.
The 20s. notes fetched 355. a unit. No
new equity raising in the immediate
future is expected, but a fresh issue of
notes or debentures is anticipated.
After the recent merger with Mello-
lite, the Hunter Douglas Ltd group in
Australia comprises four operating sub-
sidiaries: Luxafiex Pty Ltd, Mello-lite
Pty Ltd, Hunter Douglas Australia Pty
Ltd and Austral Shades Pty Ltd. Funds
employed at June 30, 1961, amounted to
£1,173,000, excluding the £140,000 of
p.c. unsecured notes. Consolidated net
profit after tax for the year 1961-62 has
been forecast at about £220.000.
The group produces aluminium
Venetian blinds, awnings, insect screens,
etc. Industrial processes are highly
mechanised, helping the company to hold
down its labor costs.
Mr S. Rich, the company's deputy-
chairman, said last week that Hunter
Douglas Ltd will concentrate on pro-
moting the use of aluminium in “the
home improvement industry.” One of
its products, now in the experimental
stage, is a prefabricated aluminium house
wall which is expected to be slightly
more expensive than weatherboard but
cheaper than brick.
Mr Rich said that “sun control” —


CBX.
D
>
i
/,
K''^' y< >
11111111
To young men who aim
to get ahead
A C.B.C. savings account is an excellent start. Your
money is safe as it grows. As you progress you will find
a C.B.C. cheque account most convenient and helpful.
Customers’ deposits in the trading bank and savings
bank exceed £250,000,000 —an indication of public faith
in the bank’s strength and in its efficient, friendly and helpful
THE
COMMERCIAL.
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY
LIMITED
C B 0
SAVINGS BANK
LIMITED
service.
You will be welcome at your nearest
branch of the C.B.C.
:
•' ■ *
M 3
6<V
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
Head Office: 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Phone: BWlOll, BWIOI2, BW 4991
DIRECTORS:
STItUAN ROP.ERSTON (Chairman), S. E. A. STIRLING
JAMES 11. STEPHENSON, R. G. GALE, RAYMOND S. COWARD. C.B.E.
A. C. MAITLAND R. A. CATLEY
(Managing Director) (Manager)
branches and Agencies in all Slate*.
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION MERITS YOUR SUPPORT
through aluminium Venetian blinds, etc.
—is a speciality of the Hunter Douglas
group. He added that “before Hunter
Douglas came to Australia the Venetian
blind industry retail volume was roughly
... £2 million today it exceeds £7
million. This same pattern will evolve
in home improvements. And it is here
that Hunter Douglas will achieve its
greatest break-through ... in Australia.”
CONS. ZINC-RIO TINTO
Parent Merger
/Consolidated Zinc Corporation Ltd
(parent co. of Consolidated Zinc
Ptv Ltd operating in Australia) and Rio
Tinto Co. Ltd (parent co. of the Rio
Tinto Mining Co. of Aust. Ltd) —both
United Kingdom concerns have
announced their merger into a new
company, The Rio Tinto-Zinc Corpora-
tion Ltd, to be accomplished by an
exchange of shares for scrip in the new
company.
Consolidated Zinc shareholders will
receive 58 10s. stg. ordinary shares in
the new company for each 20 20s. stg.
Consolidated Zinc shares; Rio Tinto
shareholders will receive 41 10s stg.
ordinary shares in the new company for
each 20 10s. stg. Rio Tinto stock units,
both exclusive of the possible final divi-
dend for the year to December 31, 1961.
Paid capital of The Rio Tinto-Zinc
Corporation Ltd wiil be about £3om. stg.
It seems that this merger of two
mining concerns with world-wide interests
is essentially an attempt to exploit econ-
omies of scale on an international level.
Competition on the world mining market
is becoming fiercer —particularly in the
aluminium field, in which serious excess
capacity may develop within the next
two years or so. Rio Tinto is at present
enjoying a great cash inflow from the UK
Government uranium contracts. On the
other hand, Consolidated Zinc has in
hand some promising new ventures, such
as bauxite mining and aluminium smelt-
ing in Australia and New Zealand. The
merger with Rio Tinto. which on its own
would have faced a serious fall in earn-
ings after the uranium contracts expired,
will provide Consolidated Zinc with the
much needed internal finance. It will
also give powerful support to the Con-
solidated Zinc-Kaiser Aluminium alliance
—now within the group—in its com-
petitive drive againt strongly entrenched
rivals.
Perhaps the first effects in Australia of
the merger—basically a London deal-
will be felt by the Melbourne-based
Broken Hill South, North Broken Hill,
Western Mining Corporation, and E.Z
Industries —all of which have extensive
rival mining interests in Australia.


Out and About
TELEVISION
TAKE IT OR LEAVE IT
THE ARTS BOOKS TELEVISION SPORT
A fter a careful look at Australian
television during the year sin", I
returned from overseas I have come to
the conclusion that two of the greatest
obstacles to good television production
here are that pay to actors and artists
is not high enough and the basis on
which that payment is made is not very
sound.
There is a shortage of trained per-
sonnel here, yet there are many Aus-
tralians working in all branches of tele-
vision overseas who would like to come
home. Their main reason for not doing
so is that the pay isn’t as high here. In
a country where most people earn more
than their opposite number in Britain,
it seems ridiculous. In any business,
quality and efficiency are worth paying
for.
Then there is the rather curious basis
on which performers are paid. The fees
paid to actors or variety artists bear
little relationship to the parts they play
or the quality of the work they do. It
is generally a case of “This is the fee,
take it or leave it.” And it is generally
the minimum award rate.
Even this rate is not based on the size
of the part but on the number of hours
spent at rehearsing and performing, as
set out by the industrial Courts. Fre-
quently this means that an “extra” who
happens to be called for all rehearsals
will earn more than the star in a play!
This is apparently based on the fallacy
that actors, good, bad, new, old, stars
or bit-players, are worth so much per
hour. While the fee for performance is
pathetically low, the fee for rehearsal,
and consequently the cost of rehearsing
a production, is ridiculously high. The
usual result is that any live show is so
•under-rehearsed that no sort of standard
is possible. It is a case of “get it on as
best we can in the time.”
Only when this is changed—as it could
be by reasonable negotiation between
the stations and Actors’ Equity—to a
system giving the artists a reasonable
minimum performance fee and the
stations a reasonable rehearsal cost, can
any sort of polished production be
achieved.
In addition, Australia is the only
country where artists receive no pay-
ment for “repeat showings” of their
work. An actor can play a part and it
can be shown as many times as the pro-
ducer wishes anywhere in the world, and
all he will get is his original fee. The
reasoning for this is that he only works
once and he should only be paid once.
This completely ignores the fact that
what he produces is sold, ultimately, to
perhaps millions of people, and the uni-
versally accepted principle of show busi-
ness that a performer’s remuneration
should bear some relationship to the
number of his audience. In Britain an
artist receives a proportion of his fee
every time the performance is repeated
and 100 per cent, of his fee if it is sold
overseas. In America a similar system
applies, as it does in every country
except Australia.
It is the same with commercials. The
advertising agencies and producers of
commercials argue that neither they,
nor their clients, the advertisers, can
afford to pay even a small proportion
of repeat fees on commercials. The
facts are that the advertiser does pay
each time the advertisement is shown ;
that the agency and the producer get a
repeat fee ; that artists’ fees are generally
less than 10 per cent, of the cost of the
commercial ; that, in every other country
the artists receives repeat fees ; that with-
out the artist to make the commercial
the agency and producer would not have
a business and the advertiser would not
have a commercial ; and that at least
moderate repeat fees would cost about
2 per cent, of the cost of each show-
ing!
These two points (neither of w'hich
applies to the ABC, which does not use
commercials and does pay “repeat fees”
for productions) are of very great
importance to artists in this country.
Every time a performance is repeated an
"A XYJB CDNMBZA ...”


artist is deprived of work, and there is
not all that much work in Australian
television. In fact, there is not enough
to keep many good performers here or
to attract others. And when the amount
of live production increases, as it will,
there will be a great shortage of compe-
tent artists.
There are various reasons why Aus-
tralian television must do more local
production. The ABC’s policy, of
course, is to do as much as possible,
and as their facilities increase they will
do so. Apart from the fact that great
pressure is being brought on the Gov-
ernment to implement a quota of local
material on TV (for economic, cultural,
moral, religious or other reasons), the
commercial stations will soon be forced
to expand their live production for
various reasons.
They know that locally produced
shows are drawing steadily larger audi-
ences and they are losing viewers to the
ABC ; the cost of imported shows is
rising rapidly—the time is not far off
when it will be cheaper to produce shows
than import them ; and with the new
country stations with no facilities for
actually producing shows opening up,
the city TV stations will be able to de-
fray the cost of production by selling
programmes to a number of smaller
stations.
When this happens the problem will
be having enough technicians, writers
and artists. They will have to both im-
port these people and train new ones.
Returning to my old theme, they should
now be making it worth while for over-
seas Australians who are trained and
experienced to return here and work.
The commercial stations claim that
there is not a large enough audience to
justify live drama production. If they
genuinely believe this they cannot have
studied British television, where there
are four or five hour to hour-and-a-half
plays a week, not to mention live serials,
etc. Admittedly it has taken some years
for these plays to build up a big follow-
ing, but now they rate the top times
and draw nearly the largest number of
viewers!
I have no doubt that television here
will follow the same pattern. The
stations should be anticipating this now,
and thinking about the future need for
trained actors and writers. They will
have to look to the live theatre, for it is
here that actors and writers learn their
jobs.
Several smaller theatres in Britain are
now subsidised by major television com-
panies for the express purpose of giving
young actors experience and trying out
the work of young writers (it is much
cheaper to produce three plays in a
small theatre than one on television).
This is what the commercial companies
here should be doing now, for the need
will be even greater than in Britain, as
television grows to maturity.
All too frequently one runs up against
a sectionalised outlook among Australian
performers. Not that it doesn’t exist in
other countries ; but the entertainment
business is small here, and needs as
much cohesion as possible. At least in
Australia there is only one union repre-
senting all artists. In America there
are five or six, in England two.
But within Equity there is a lot of
sectional division —even the make-up of
the council stipulates representatives
from various branches (variety, theatre,
radio, etc.). Obviously a straight actor
is not particularly concerned about con-
ditions of work in opera, but with the
coming of television there is even more
urgency to break down these barriers and
take an interest in all sides of entertain-
ment, because television can employ all
types of artists.
Australian artists are not alone in their
apathy to their union. British Equity
meetings are nearly as badly attended ;
one hears the same “Why should I take
an interest in Equity? What have they
ever done for me? I don’t mind paying
my dues, but I can’t be bothered going
to meetings,” etc., etc.
Of course, as in Britain and the
USA, Australian Equity has done an
enormous amount to improve the lot of
the artist, to protect his interests and
provide reasonable standards of work.
I feel this union is typically Australian
in that it does not think and plan far
enough ahead, nor anticipate develop-
ments in the light of overseas experi-
ence.
If one tries to point out that local
show business is passing through a cer-
tain phase, that this phase has
occurred in England, that so-and-so fol-
lowed there, and may logically be
expected to follow here, one gets the
same old Australian. “We’re different, our
conditions are different, that develop-
ment won’t follow here.”
Actually, and particularly in condi-
tions of work in television, the develop-
ment should not only have happened by
now, but been forced to happen! Be-
cause Australian artists have never had
reasonable conditions of work in radio,
they don’t seem to expect them in tele-
vision. However, they are gradually
coming round to a realisation that, col-
lectively, they are strong enough to de-
mand reasonable payment for their work
and a reasonable standard of living as
professional entertainers. But Equity is
only now fighting for conditions of em-
ployment in commercial television which
British Equity, by foresight, planning
and negotiation, obtained before their
commercial television even opened!
DAVID WILLIAMS
OPERA
SOUTH AMERICAN DILEMMA
A ustralians who feel angry when
foreigners know little and care less
about their country will feel sympathy
for soprano Ana Raquel Satre who was
christened the “Brazilian Bombshell” by
the Sydney Press on her arrival here.
Miss Satre comes from Uruguay.
Miss Satre is here to sing Violetta in
“La Traviata” and Donna Elvira in “Don
Giovanni” for the Elizabethan Theatre
Trust. She is singing Violetta for the
Perth Festival this month, and will sing
at the Adelaide Festival next month.
Miss Satre last year sang the part of
Alisa in a recording of “Lucia di
Lammermoor” which Joan Sutherland
made in Rome.
“I had a contract with Decca for three
recordings,” Miss Satre explained. “I
sang Emelia in ‘Othello’ and Lola in
‘Cavalleria Rusticana’; then they asked
me to do Alisa. It is really a mezzo role,
but I thought it would be good publicity
to record with Joan Sutherland.”
Miss Satre regards Joan Sutherland as
a “great technician”—“in the right sense
of the word,” she added.
“She has a wonderful understanding of
the voice as an instrument,” she said.
“She feels it as an instrument.”
Miss Satre made her debut at the opera
house in Montevideo in Cimarosa’s
“Secret Marriage,” after studying at the
Conservatorium there.
She made many opera appearances in
South America before going to Paris in
1956 to study with Ninon Vallin and
Pierre Bernac. Paris is still her favorite
city, although she will now make her
home in London.
Three months after her arrival in
Europe she won the International Con-
course at Toulouse and an engagement
at the Cannes Festival, where she sang
Euridice to Gerard Souzay’s Orpheo.
Miss Satre said that most South
American singers regarded Europe as
their goal, in the same way that Aus-
tralians do, although there are five major
opera houses with regular seasons in
South American cities.
“However,” Miss Satre said, “it is no
use a South American singer going to
Europe until she is already established.”
“It is rather a dilemma for us,” she
added. “We cannot be at the top until


we have sung at Covent Garden, Milan,
the Metropolitan, or the festivals, yet
we can sing at these places only as guest
stars —and, of course, nobody asks you
to be a guest star until you are estab-
lished.
“Although Australians are good
singers, they do have the advantage that
they can sing at Covent Garden simply
because they are British. That is one way
that your Commonwealth works very well.
An Australian can go from here and get
a good deal of useful experience at the
English opera houses and build up a
reputation from that.”
PATRICIA ROLFE
SPORT
SOMETIMES OM SUNDAY
TN the interests of the Church of Eng-
land Diocesan Council in Queens-
land, I went to the Warwick Farm motor
racing circuit last Sunday to see the
International 100.
The Diocesan Council had joined the
Queensland Council of Churches in a
protest against the playing of Davis :p
Challenge Round matches on December
30 this year, claiming among other things
that it would be the first time a “major
international sporting event” had been
planned for a Sunday.
Having heard that the first Inter-
national 100 had been watched by some
50,000 persons in January, 1961, the
council’s statement puzzled me. Could
Archbishop Halse be doubting the "in-
ternational” aspect of this event, or did
he and fellow council-members feel that
motor-racing was not really a sport?
Perhaps the Diocesan Council had
added, “except of course in Sydney,
which is not really part of Australia,”
and the reporters had gently omitted
this.
1 can now assure the council that a
major international sporting event has
been held in Australia, for the second
time, and will doubtlessly be held again
for the third time next year, a month
after the Davis Cup match in Brisbane.
It was international enough, with drivers
from four countries. The attendance was
far greater than is likely at Milton on
Davis Cup Sunday, so I guess it was
“major”. That leaves only one word open
to debate, and I feel the Archbishop
may have a point there, if he cares to
press it.
Warw-ick Farm is on the western out-
skirts of Sydney and is mostly used as
an oval circuit for the racing of one-
horsepower hayburners, watched in the
main by Davis Cup numbers of middle-
aged men whose afternoons have six
or seven peaks of excitement and, usually,
disgust.
On International 100 Sunday the
carparks around the course were filled
in some parts with sports cars, and the
stands were bright with the head scarves
of their female passengers and, to a fair
degree, owners. The bright and shining
young were there in their thousands, to
watch the benzol and methanol burners
buzz, whine and wind through tight
turns and along straights, tearing around
and through and over the course proper .
on a “tortuit” rather than a circuit.
1 arrived at the end of a race which
I gathered had been exciting and
“scooped” by Morris 850 s, though for
the life of me I could not see how any-
one could follow progress, even with
binoculars. Nor could 1 see where the
horsetrack had gone. The air was mellow
with burned-out gases. The crowd was
distributed among the stands and around
the course, with the true blue afficionados
clustered in the pit area.
On to the circuit rolled the 11 cars
in the International 100. obviously
bursting to go out but held in restraint bf
their jockeys—sorry, drivers. On to the
grid in front of the paddock, Moss of
England taking pride of place because
of a record practice lap of 1-37.5,
Brabham of Australia, McLaren of New
Zealand, and back in the fourth row,
Bandini of Italy, certainly international.
Colors? Not as gay as jockeys’. Mostly
red and yellow cars, with the drivers
almost hidden by machine, goggles and
crash helmet. Most of the interest centred
on Stirling Moss, who had won the
event last year, and whose chartered heli-
copter stood in plain sight, waiting to
whisk him off to Mascot’s airport and
an airliner to Los Angeles as soon as
the 100-mile race was over. But that
would be 45 laps and about 90 minutes
from now.
Away they went. Around turns,
through S-bends and down straights.
Jack Brabham led Stirling Moss with
obvious ease for 18 laps, with Bruce
McLaren trailing them. The 19th time
around, Stirling Moss had the lead and
none of us in my stand had seen it
happen. We did see Jack Brabham’s
car break down in the 22nd lap. I
gathered from knowledgeable comments
around me that Surtees and Glass had
also withdrawn.
From then on, it was not a race, but


a procession. It became clear that nothing
was going to flash up on the outside,
come home with a withering run on the
rails, or unwind a sensational burst of
speed, those manly cliches that make
a punter’s blood pound. These benzol
burners were being driven flat out, with
nothing in reserve, and their progress
depended entirely on their drivers’ sus-
tained skill. Moss obviously had more of
that than anyone else on the track, and
the only possible excitement was in
whether his engine would go for the full
100 miles, as Brabham's had not.
This was a limiting excitement to carry
spectators through 23 laps of the racing
circuit. Transistors were turned up. Time
passed. Stirling Moss won the race, fol-
lowed in by Bruce McLaren, and Bib
Stillwell from Victoria who drove dog-
gedly to give Australia a placing.
It may be that anything, to qualify
as a sport, needs more indecision than
this form of motor racing. Cars can
skid, of course. Several did. They can
overturn and injure their drivers. They
can slew off and mangle spectators or
officials, as one did in practice on the
Saturday, and as one very nearly did
on International 100 Sunday, in iap 29.
Whole fields of racehorses can fall, too,
but very few punters would consider
that an exciting possibility. I am left to
wonder why 50,000 people went to
Warwick Farm that Sunday, and whether
what they saw was really any kind of
sport. The Diocesan Council may have
a point, after all.
FRANK ROBERTS.
THOROUGHLY SPORTING GLEE
HThere is a certain amount of glee in the
A Indian Press about Indian cricketers’
triumph over the English in the recent
Test series there -thoroughly sporting
glee, I might say ; nothing crude.
Cricket is one of the things that really
caught on in India—a country which
was pretty gameless before the British
introduced symbols of the civilised
estate such as polo, pig-sticking, tiger-
shooting, hockey, and, of course, cricket.
Indians who have been to English-
style schools either in India or the UK are
well up in cricket and this is a great con-
versational boon when they are dealing
with visiting Australians.
I had not been more than two weeks
in India when I was invited to watch a
cricket match one Sunday. It was an
amateur game between a group of Indian
Civil servants and a few Europeans and
Australians. We all travelled about 20
miles out of Lucknow, into the arid
countryside. The game was to be played
on a small oval in the grounds of a
rajah’s country palace. The rajah was
not there. He had, in fact, given up
this particular palace when Indian reform
laws had taken away most of his land.
“Here, take the palace, too, it’s no turther
use to me,” he said to the Government.
The Government didn't know what to
do with this mansion in the middle of
nowhere ... except play cricket on its
oval. So that’s how this junket—a popu-
lar weekend expedition—came about.
The ladies were settled under umbrellas
like proper meimahibs while the white-
flannelled gentlemen went through the
ritual of tossing and placing the field.
Our host, the Chief Secretary, was an
Oxford half-blue (rowing), he told me,
and an assistant secretary was a quarter-
blue (tennis) but, poor dears, they were
pushing on in years and their half and
quarter blues did not show up in cricket.
The Indian side which went in batted
for less than an hour, then declared them-
selves too hot to continue. So we trooped
up the garden path into the palace and
all flopped into chintz couches and were
served with drinks. Then came a typical
Indian meal in the long dining-room ; the
usual half-dozen curries, dais, chutneys,
curds, pilaus, chapattis and sweets. This
took up about two hours and the table-
talk was —you've guessed it—cricket.
We staggered back to the oval. Our
delightful hosts decided not to finish
their innings ; besides a spot of fielding
would do them good. The other side
went in. An hour later, with only half
the side out, it was voted too hot to
continue.
We trooped up the garden path again
into the chintzy drawing room and were
served with tea. There was just enough
strength left in the partv to go sight-
seeing over the palace, which was tricked
up in pukka English country-house style
—-the blue room, the pink room, the
green room, etc., all done with a
thoroughness one could only admire . . .
not one single note of alien color had
been allowed to stray into each indivi-
dual decor ; walls, ceiling, carpets, furni-
ture —even the bedroom china—were one
solid color.
The wonder of that, and the huge
stuffed bear with a brass tray for visiting
cards in the entrance hall, the giraffe’s
head with 12 feet of neck nailed to the
floor have colored my impression of
cricket in India with an indescribable
charm.
But just to show that some people there
take the game really seriously here is a
letter to the sports editor w h appeared
in my last week’s airmail copy of the
Indian “Statesman”:
“Sir—l have the honor to bring to
your kind consideration some incidents
during the first three matches which
Lucknow University played at Kanpur,
First, matches were not started on time;
every day they were delayed by 45
minutes due to the umpires coming late.
Secondly, the ignorance of the umpires
about rules and regulations of the game
with the result that many wrong deci-
sions were given: (a) batsmen were
clean bowled and given not out; (b)
batsmen were caught in slips and given
not out ; (c) a batsman was run out
when both the bails were off and the ball
hit afterwards. Umpires have bowling
practice when the batsman gets out.”
M. E. UPWARD
MUSIC
BEGUILED BY THE MOMENT
Two Orchestral Concerts. Sydney
Symphony Orchestra.
j>ERPHAPS it is asking a bit much to
1 demand an encore from a soloist
who has just completed the task of play-
ing two concertos in the same pro-
gramme, but the people who called
“encore” at the end of Fou Ts’ong’s per-
formance of Bartdk’s third piano con-
certo at the second concert of the 1962
Summer Festival had something to
shout about. Mr Fou is a first-rate
musician—his technique, which makes
technical difficulties all look disarmingly
easy, is the servant of a thoughtful and
sensitive musical intelligence and a
straightforward no-nonsense approach to
his job. The Bartok allowed him to dis-
play his gifts to their fullest advantage.
The conductor, John Hopkins, has a
taste for color and drama, which in this
case suited the orchestral part, and the
result was a happy collaboration. The
second movement of the Bartok has some
passages that require especially close and
tricky co-operation between orchestra
and soloist, and these were brought off
in fine style.
I was not altogether happy about the
other concertos played in the first two
concerts of the festival. I dislike the
idea of playing Bach clavier concertos
on a piano rather than a harpsichord,
because the piano generally tends to turn
the solo part into a mere blur of sound. A
further problem in Mr Fou’s performance
of the A Major Concerto was that the


The
NORTHERN LIFE
Assurance Company of Australia Limited
(Incorporated in Canberra, Australia )
All Classes of Ordinary Life Assurance,
Superannuation and Annuity Policies Issued
HEAD OFFICE: 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone BL 5601 K. J. Hedley, General Manager
orchestra was reduced in size to a point
where there were only five or six first
violins playing, so that, in the absence
of any attempt to equalise the balance
of sound between the piano and the
strings, the piano became very much the
senior partner in the performance.
These difficulties can be eliminated in
the recording studio by good engineering,
but they are rather hard to dispose of
in the concert hall, and in this case they
rather off-set the merits of Mr Fou
Ts'ong’s playing.
On the other hand, the orchestra used
for the Mozart concerto No. 25 in C
Major was not reduced in size at all
(although some of the strings were silent
in the stow movement). This, combined
with Mr Hopkins's tendency in the first
concert to turn every crescendo into a
climax, made the orchestral part sound
more “heroic” and less sophisticated than
one normally expects from Mozart. Mr
Fou’s account of the solo part showed
great sensitivity to a turn of phrase or a
change of key. but he seemed to be con-
centrating on the expressive and pianistic
elements in the score, rather as if he had
had his mind on Chopin.
The orchestra generally played very
well under Mr Hopkins, particularly in
the second concert. But Mr Hopkins,
especially where he was not accompany-
ing Mr Fou, seemed to be beguiled by
the idea of “the great moment”, so that,
for instance, the Vaughan Williams
Fantasia on a Theme of Tallis sounded
like a sequence of more or less exciting
incidents rather than an organic whole.
An item that deserves mention was a
splendid symphony by the early
eighteenth century composer Frantisek
Mica. It w'as a great success (even though
the wind instruments were almost over-
whelmed by the strings), and l hepe that
it means that we hear some more pre-
classical orchestral music in future
concerts.
JOHN SAMUEL
SILLY SEASON
TGff el bourne police last week closed a
spuriously titled “Open-Air Jazz
Convention” which was being disrupted
by factional clashes between jazz lovers
and “rockers.” The following day two
youths were fined £lO in Frankston court
for offensive behavior. I didn't go to
this “convention” because one a year
is enough for me; also because this
Was not a convention but a cleverly
publicised concert arranged by commer-
cial promoters. A fortnight before
Christmas, city walls and scaffolding
were covered with posters which looked
familiar. The banner reading “Jazz
Convention” was, in fact, familiar,
though the details were not. The type-
face and layout were identical with that
used a year before for the official con-
vention, held at Kew Civic Centre.
This was obviously a cunning ploy by
the promoters to cash in on the publicity
and prestige of the real convention —
but it backfired.
Bad behavior has plagued jazz for
far too long and is conspicuously
created not by jazz lovers but by smart
alecks out tor "kicks.” Australian jazz
fell from public favor in Melbourne
during the early ’fifties because of the
behavior of a small section of Town
Hall audiences, a type who W'ould now be
well hooked on rock-’n’-roll. And it is
no real consolation to consider that this
sort of thing is not peculiar to Aus-
tralia. I don’t know if midsummer is also
the silly season in America, but last
year at that time the well-established and
internationally famous Newport Jazz
Festival was terminated because of local
residents’ reactions to identical riots
staged outside the festival grounds by
rockers and Kingston Trio supporters
who had been unable to gain admission
to the auditorium.
It is unlikely that local idiots could
make much of a disturbance here and
jazz is again growing in public favor ;
most promoters are men of goodwill who
treat musicians well and do not tread on
the toes of the purists who run the jazz
community; more and more musicians
are taking a healthy professional
approach to their music-making. Unethi-
cal advertising and concert locations
designed to attract the worst elements of
youth will not benefit the promoter in the
long run and could do irreparable harm
to jazz itself, for it must be remembered
that, as far as jazz outside purist circles is
concerned, the silly season never ends.
ADRIAN RAWLINS
ART
FRUCTIFYING PHASE?
Robert Curtis. Macquarie Galleries.
Sydney.
HThis latest collection of oil paintings
by Robert Curtis makes an effort
to break with the limitations of his
earlier style of abstraction; in a few re-
spects he is successful. From a mosaic
fragmentation of small form he has
moved into the freer element of rapid,
staccato line. However, this territory
needs more individuality than Robert
Curtis demonstrates here; too many of
the paintings show the dominant influence
of John Olsen. Whether or not this will
prove a fructifying phase in his develop-
ment remains to be seen. At the moment
we see the transition from contemplative
to a restless, impulsive vision at variance
with the painter’s mystical bent, a ten-
dency which prompts such titles as
“Mysterious Hills” or “A Mystical Ex-
perience.”
Other paintings where Curtis contrives
to interpret landscape seem only remotely
connected with them. The uniformity of
color and, to some extent, light and dark
suggests a homogeneity of mood, a
working through of personal obsessions
in paint; the titles added later seem un-
necessary.
In this vein, the most successful painting
here which arrives indirectly at its sub-
ject is “From a Concrete Footpath,” a
large, heavily textured, brittle statement
in which an onslaught of erratic
shapes coheres in light areas. Similarly,
the linear tangle of "Life Emerging”
gains in effect through the supporting
role of cadmuim red.
Downward thrusting ochre forms in
“Galston Gorge” succeed in giving a
personal slant to an otherwise accom-
plished imitation of an Olsen. These
three paintings demonstrate the greatest
technical skill, whereas the re-
ligiosity of “Hymn,” “Ascension’ and
“Thoughts on Experiences of Life” delve
into personal feeling at once more
genuine and less articulate. Whether or
not mature impulses will take charge and
overcome the derivative is anybody’s
guess.
J. HENSHAW.


BELOW THEIR BEST
The Perth Festival Prize. Skinner
Gallery. Perth.
"O eally a very dull year. All the estab-
fished artists have sent in work below
their best, and, with one exception, the
less well-known have done nothing to
water their reputations in a dry season.
The first prize went to Robert Juniper's
“Backyard Football,” an abstract in his
usual style, golden to earth colored,
with accents in vivid pinks and blues.
The composition is reminiscent of Klee ;
the footballers are three circles edged
with radiating lines, and they dominate
the composition, which is loose to the
point of disintegration. Klee is a happy
New Australian, almost. Mr Juniper's
other entry is perhaps more handsome, a
large horizontal canvas, dominated by an
H or goal-post form in blues, counter-
pointed throughout with the touches of
saturated, pretty color that are Juniper’s
trademarks. At its best, this sophisti-
cated decorative style produces paintings
which have an immediate but elusive
emotional impact: they can open again
for a moment the windows of childhood
and produce a sudden, unreflective sense
of wonder at the experience of seeing.
But the two paintings in this show are
simply exercises in the style—they do not
deliver the impact.
The second prize was taken by Guy
Grey-Smith’s “Roebourne Gorge,” and,
again, we have seen better things by this
painter in this style. The canvas presents
a problem in visual dynamics, with one-
and-a-half voids in outline poised at the
centre of a tug of war between large
parallelograms of color, yellow, red and
green predominating. There is no rep-
resentation of nature, only the explora-
tion of a painter’s problems, and while
the solution is sound, the whole business
is a bit dull for the observer.
Brian McKay’s two semi-representa-
tional landscapes, one of a big red brood-
ing mountain, the other of a lake shore,
with a sad white sky above it, are both
much less good than the things which he
exhibited in the Perth Group show. The
texture of the canvases is less lovingly
worked over, and though the composi-
tion is sound, it is not striking.
Miss Kathleen O'Connor has two por-
traits in, one of Roger Dawkins and the
other of Jeremy Dawkins. Both are
excellent likenesses and both are charac-
terised by the sensitive, painterly surface
which Miss O'Connor always produces,
but neither of them comes up, quite, to
her best work. Nevertheless, Miss
O’Connor provides an object lesson that
many of the other exhibitors should
study closely. Her technique shows the
sophistication of her years in Paris, and
her canvases reveal, to the observant, the
careful work that has gone into them,
especially into such “unimportant” things
as the tonal qualities of plain back-
grounds. These are serious paintings,
in a European tradition on which the
past weighs heavily: Australian painters
may enjoy some kind of advantage by
being freed from this weight of past
achievement, but it is no advantage to
them at all to underestimate the difficul-
ties of their metier. Miss O’Connor
pursues the perfection of a particular
idiom: some people simply want to
paint a picture, any picture. This notion
is utterly foreign to painters of Miss
O’Connor’s class, who have very exact
ideas of what they are after ; and, indeed,
the painting of Roger Dawkins is one
of a series of the sitter which the artist
is painting, in an attempt to make a
finished and final picture.
Elizabeth Durack’s entry is in her new
tachiste style and, though technically
interesting, it is by no means one of her
best. Like Miss O'Connor's canvases, it
suffers from having to keep polychro-
matic company.
Mr Baker alone of the exhibitors has
put in work that is better than anything
we have seen before from him. “Father
Christmas at an aboriginal children’s
party,” is an oil sketch for a large group
and it is dominated by a patriarchal
Father Christmas who is almost swept
over by children ; the movement of the
waves of little figures is balanced on the
right by a great solid row of image-like
earth-mothers. This picture has the germs
of a first-rate composition in it, and one
hopes that Mr Baker will develop this
line, and restore the human figure to its
place in Australian painting. His other
little painting of an aboriginal girl with
doll, which nicely, if obviously, sets the
stiff poise of the doll off against the
droop of the child, has all the sentiment
of an old Academy painting in it. But
this old fashioned sentimentality is a
stumbling block only to the orthodox
who imagine that the battles of the 1890 s
still need to be fought. The notion of a
Hundred Years’ War in painting is so
very provincial, and Mr Baker may yet
end up in the real avant garde of this
province simply by ignoring it. There
is considerable promise in these two
paintings, and Mr Baker seems now to
have set his direction.
For the rest there is some accomplish-
ment —Ivor Hunt, Cyril Lander and
Cedric Baxter, to name the most
obvious—but there is little promise of
anything new or challenging. The tech-
nique of the tail of the field is often worse
than even Sunday painting can excuse ;
and the leaders are all very competently,
but sometimes a little dully, working on
in idioms that they have already made
familiar. Only Mr Baker promises some
new thing to diversify this scene from
provincial life: I hope he eventually
delivers it.
PATRICK HUTCHINGS
FILMS
LIGHT FRENCH FARE
Archimede the Tramp. Gala. Sydney.
Goodbye Again. Century. Sydney.
TJoth these films are slight, pleasant and
amusing. “Archimede” is some-
thing of a tour de force for Jean Gabin,
as a Parisian hobo, not so much down on
his luck’ as determined to do nothing.
What surprises me most about it is that
someone else is given credit for the
“original idea”, when it so clearly comes
from O. Henry’s Soapy, trying to get
into jail for the winter ; with a touch of
Shaw’s Doolittle added, for intellectual
stimulus. The Gabin creation somehow
falls between the two, lacking both pathos
and genuine wit. However,.the film has
the droll anti-social elements common to
most French comedies; and one can’t
help smiling as “respectable” attitudes
are guyed, even by an obvious and self-
conscious boor. I found his technique
too near the custard-pie, only with wine
bottles as substitutes. But perhaps only
actors know how easy it is to play the
vulgarian without effort, and most audi-
ences will enjoy Gabin as much as he
enjoys himself. The supports —Tim
Burstal's “Ned Kelly”, and a long, gay,
Russian song-and-dance medley—are
very good indeed.
“Goodbye Again” is very bad
Frangoise Sagan (“Aimez-vous
Brahms?”), almost redeemed by very
good Ingrid Bergman, deft direction,
good use of Parisian background, and an
amusing performance by Anthony
Perkins playing Anthony Perkins. Yves
Montand, as a cross between George Raft
and Humphrey Bogart, isn't quite my
cup of tea. As everyone knows, this is
the story of a youngster in love with a
much older woman, who isn’t quite sure
whom she loves. In real life, it could
be either tragic or absurd. Taken lightly
but sensitively, as a series of vignettes
alternating between pathos and comedy,
it is pleasantly entertaining. The dialogue,
which is more or less heavily accented
in English, sounds French. Again, there
is a beautiful supporting film, from the
English Lakes district.
ANTON VOGT


THE RED PAGE
A GREEN IMPRIMATUR
By CECIL HADGRAFT
TF a venerable scholar devotes about
-“-thirty years of his life to a work of
learning, then the volumes resulting, even
if bad, are going to be of some impor-
tance. One may as well say at the start
that H. M. Green's “A History of Aus-
tralian Literature," * so long in prepara-
tion, so eagerly awaited (about 1000 sets
already sold since publication), is not
in any way bad. And it is of more
than some importance.
It is certainly the most important single
work of criticism our literature has seen.
Its scope and its bulk might be enough to
ensure that ; but it is not dependent only
on those two things, impressive as they
are. Statistically: Nearly 1500 pages
in two large volumes, covering the
literature in detail from its beginnings to
1950, with 19 pages of summarised com-
ment on the last ten years. The literature
divided mto four periods: Conflict
(1789-1850), Consolidation (1850-1900),
Self-conscious Nationalism (1900-1923),
World Consciousness and Disillusion
(1923-1950). The writing dealt with:
Almost any kind a reader takes up for
pleasure or profit or even duty—verse,
fiction, drama, and criticism of course ;
and those species that for some critics
(P. R. Stephensen and Douglas Stewart,
for instance) bulk large in value as well
as amount in our writing and have been
shamefully or carelessly neglected—
travel, history, controversy, oratory,
biography, economics, politics, anthro-
pology, philosophy, psychology . . .
Manner of treatment: For athors,
briefly biographical, with an orderly
exposition of ontent, methods, weak-
nesses, value, and this mostly buttressed
with quotation ithe quotation sometimes
too localised, packed instead of dis-
persed); for periods, introductory his-
torical and social outlines, finking the
literature to the background.
Formidable? Of course. There is
only one other work in this scale. E.
Morris Miller’s “Australian Literature”
of 20 years ago. and it is different
in treatment. Miller reveals an unrivalled
faculty for delving, and his background
to authors of unexpected social and mari-
tal relationships still is an enormous
and delectable plum-pudding. Again,
he is, with the exception of Sir John
Ferguson, our best bibliographer, and his
lists partially fill the gap, which not one
of us will see filled in this lifetime, bet-
ween 1850 and 1936, when the annual
bibliographies began to be issued by the
National Library. In the interpretation
of social and historical forces and in
the individual criticism of authors.
Miller yields to Green. These two his-
tories are then, if hardly rivals, at any
rate the only two mammoth occupants of
the area.
CT'ope and bulk, two prerequisites of the
comprehensive history—these Green
has in full measure. if we ask for
criticism that is penetrating, balanced and
in its impact seemingly definitive, then
we can turn for an example to his esti-
mate of Lawson. 1 have mentioned these
twenty pages elsewhere, and a re-read-
ing at large of the "History” confirms
what I then felt: within its self-imposed
limits and limitations it seems to me as
good as such a piece of appraisal can
be. It is perhaps significant that this
occurs in the period that is not contem-
porary or near-contemporary. That is
to be expected. There are still, it is
true, some figures and some aspects
before World War 1 that are disputable
or open to revaluation.
C. W. Safier. for instance, ranked
Harpur higher than most would. Tom
Inglis Moore's introduction to his selec-
tion of Kendall estimated Kendall’s im-
portance as more weighty than Moore's
opponents or even friends might be dis-
posed to. But it is easier to refute Safier
on Harpur than Moore on Kendall. One
would need to know Kendall as well as
Moore does, and only Reed of Adelaide
qualifies. And a sanity and delicacy
of appreciation equal to Moore’s would
not come amiss. James McAuley's
opinion—and however much one dis-
agrees with his opinions it is rash to dis-
regard them —of the value of O'Dowd's
verse is that it is flatly nil. Much res-
pectable criticism holds to a kindlier
verdict. And there are some other dis-
puted patches —A. G. Stephens and The
Bulletin, for instance. But on the whole
it is easier to write well, or at least
acceptably, of our literature before 1914
than since. This is not to belittle Green’s
coverage of that earlier period. It
was easier to do, but he has done it
for our generation once and for all.
As for the writers in the second volume,
those since 1923, it is a safe bet that
Green is going to be scolded by every-
body for something. To join the chorus:,
one may think Katharine Prichard over-
rated and wonder at the praise (however
qualified) expended on her style. Is not
the early work of White too summarily
treated —“The Aunt's Story” not even
rating a mention? Veiia Ercole’s “Dark
Windows” “is not distinguished in any
way,” a verdict that will seem insensi-
tive to some readers. As for the verse,
one may occasionally ask if description
of themes is sufficient comment, if the
essential, the essence, of some poets is
beyond Green. The potted history of
the last ten years is an obvious target:
a reader may forget the great difficulty
of the task. Yet he may wonder if any-
thing besides lack of space (bias of an
undetermined sort?) has snapped its
fingers at Buckley's "The World’s Flesh”
so cavalierly.
More generally—a work of this size
has its own dangers. If a single scholar
(Daiches the latest example) writes a
history of English literature, then he has
great names to deal with and can skim
over minors. The risk he runs is that
of purveying platitudes, for many a figure
could serve as the sole subject of the
work. But the historian of Australian
literature incurs the opposite danger: he
has at best half a dozen figures of
comparable secondary importance to ex-
patiate on. and he cannot skim over
minors ; indeed he has in a way to
inflate them. There are a few inflated
frogs in Green.
And like all things of value, the work
will be misused. The young student,
the uninitiated, the examinee will learn
(which is good) and quote (which is bad),
And some will point to verdicts on con-
temporaries as authoritative, which no
verdicts here can be for long.
A nybody interested in our literature—
with a respect for great learn-
ing hard-won, for the inescapable tedium
of reading so much of which the indica-
tions appear only perhaps as a line or a
footnote, anybody with a care for sane
criticism or good calm unhurried prose
—will approach this work with a due
measure of reverence. But I incline to
think that only someone who has tried
to trace some years of literary history
can have any idea of the mountain of
often unrewarding work involved.
Maybe its greatest value lies in the
simple fact that Green has written these
two large volumes about our literature.
It is a good, perhaps even a great, work.
The literature that was its raison d'etre
was thought by this scholar to warrant
this comment. It is in other words a
sort of imprimatur, a verdict on value.
Australian literature appears more im-
portant simply because these volumes
have been written.
*A History of Australian Literature.
H. M. Green. Angus and Robertson.
168 s.


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. “D,” Box 2671, G.r.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
A MIRACLE IS NEEDED
The Quest for Being. Sidney Hook.
Macmillan. 645. 9d.
“Philosophers have only interpreted
the world in various ways, but the real
task is to alter it.” This much misunder-
stood statement by the greatest sociologi-
cal thinker of all time, Karl Marx, has
started a philosophical tradition which has
become predominant —not in the commu-
nist bloc where it is outlawed —but in
the United States. The tradition is
pragmatism and its Grand Old Man was
John Dewey. Putting it very crudely,
pragmatist philosophers believe that the
meaning of concepts in human discourse
is inseparably bound up with the business
of adjusting to nature and to society.
To understand what concepts mean is to
know' how they are used in action and in
anticipation of action. There is no other
meaning of meaning and no absolute
truth independent of an organism's
relation to its environment.
Professor Sidney Hook is Dewey's most
faithful follower among American
philosophers. He is also, again like
Dewey, an outspoken and fearless cham-
pion of civil liberties and intellectual free-
dom. His implacable hostility towards
communism has made him many enemies,
particularly among academics. The pre-
sent collection of essays, ranging in diffi-
culty from upper-middle-brow to very
high-brow, is on the theory of knowledge,
ethics, and mainly religion.
Professor Hook is a forthright and
unrepentant secularist and social demo-
crat. He holds that ethical principles
are rooted, without residue, in human
needs and can be justified without any
recourse whatever to supernatural con-
cepts. Religious beliefs have by their
very nature an ambiguous and unclear
relation to human action ; they are un-
warranted and are, at best, harmless
Hook views the present religious revival
among intellectuals as a ‘doss of nerve.’
Wars, slumps and totalitarianism have
made lie too nasty and brutish for them
to bear without a supernatural opiate.
Instead of drugging themselves, men
should use their intelligence, fortified by
the methods of empirical science, to fight
for freedom and justice here on earth.
With characteristic fairness, Hook in-
cludes in his book a brilliant attack on
his own attitude towards religion by
Professor Van der Haag. Van der Haag
argues in favor of religion on the rather
utilitarian grounds that without it people
tend to invest secular objectives with
religous fervor and the result is totali-
tarianism: “The replacement of the
Holy Father with the father of the people,
of the College of Cardinals with the
Politburo, involves nothing less than a
new' and indefinitely prolonged dark ages
. . . . The Church has already lost a great
deal of effectiveness. We must do our
best to avoid weakening it further.”
Hook, an old-fashioned, straight-thinking
liberal, rejects this “theology of disbelief”
as he calls it wfith indignation and force.
On reading Hook’s rejoinder people such
as myself, who tend to sympathise with
Van der Haag's position on religion, may
feel as if caught cheating by a stern and
upright father. Yet all we have to do is
to look around us. “Ye shall know them
by their fruits”, says the Bible in a
remarkably Marxist-pragmatic passage.
The history of progressive liberalism in
Anglo-Saxon countries since the ’thirties,
and particularly in Australia for the past
twenty years, has been a history of gross
intellectual dishonesty, irrational emotive
sloppiness and variable but unvarying
support, in one way or another, for
communist despotism. This is still true.
in judging ideas one just cannot ignore
their social consequences or the prevail-
ing quality of their protagonists, par-
ticularly if one’s philosophical formation
is pragmatist. And Hook with a very
small band of others is quite obviously
the exception rather than the rule among
liberals. The honest defender of
enlightened secular liberalism feels these
days pretty much like the genuinely
pious defender of the Church must have
felt in the period of the Renaissance
Popes. We are told that the Church
has survived the Renaissance Popes be-
cause it enjoys special protection from
the Holy Ghost. Let us nope that the
courtesy of the Holy Ghost will extend a
little to His secularist critics. Unless
aided by a miracle, progressive liberalism
is unlikely to last much longer. If its
hegemony in its present non-Hookian
shape continues, we shall be conquered
by the communists and that will be the
end of all iiberalism. And if we are not
conquered by the communists it will be
because we have destroyed the prevailing
mode of liberal-progressivism in our
society in the nick of time.
FRANK KNOPFELMACHER
LEUKAEMIA OF THE SPIRIT
The Heart of the Hunter. Laurens van
der Post. Hogarth Press. 265.
r T~'HEY are a simple, dignified folk roam-
ing the open spaces in twos and threes,
taking their food as they find it and rest-
ing in crude shelters or in holes in the
ground. Their few skills date from the
Stone Age when all the land was theirs
and history was carried around in the
head or painted on the walls of caves.
But now they have been driven further
out by settlement and in the lonely
places of the desert are slowly dying.
They are not the aborigines of Australia
but of South Africa and they are called
Bushmen.
Death is a fact of life, to be accepted
with resignation but the process of dying
can be a terrifying experience. As van
der Post puts it, the little Bushman is so
natural and innocent that he has only
to come near others for a sort of radio-
active fall-out from our unnatural world
to produce a fatal leukaemia of the
spirit. Once divorced from the family
group there can be no return. Such a
person is more dead than their dead.
“She had followed her man to the jail
at Gemsbok Pan where he was impris-
oned and there had been forced to live
on such scraps of charity as the out-
post could afford. The black colored
men, who came and went as drovers,
lorryboys and servants of white buyers
and traders, took her at theii will, throw-
her some tobacco oi food in retain,
How long it had gone on I could not tell,
because, the first time I saw her, life in
its ultimate mercy had already deprived
her of her senses. One white morning
she walked by my camp at Gemsbok Pan
stark naked, beating her chest and moan-
ing pitifully. ’
In the desert where some movement is
still possible, life is a precarious quality
and disaster lies nearer than the veins
in the neck. Yet even in extremity here
the Bushman wears an aristocratic grace.
“They looked as if they had been burned
in a terrible fire and the light in their
eyes was hardly of the world any more,
Yet such was their spirit that as they
stood before us at last on uncertain feet,
they each raised a hand and politely
gave us the traditional greeting of their
race: Good-day. We saw you from afar
and we are dying of hunger.”
4 The Heart Of The Hunter is an
exploration of the Bushman’s mind and
spirit as revealed in his fables and
legends and in the author's personal
knowledge of him. At the same time the
book presents an eloquent plea for his
preservation. “The Lost World Of The


Kalahari” described an expedition ths
author led through a great wasteland in
search of a unique people. ‘'The Heart
Of The Hunter” begins where the first
book left off. It is a noble piece of
writing. It comes out of a rare depth
and range of experience and wisdom.
Why should anyone be interested in
this hunter and rock-painter? The
author's defence of him is stated in both
positive and negative terms. He attacks
modern civilisation on the grounds that
it induces a spiritual sterility, it strips
man of his hunger for honor and love
and leaves him with a private sense of
neglect and insecurity. The Bushman on
the other hand still preserves something
of the forgotten language of first things,
a rich creative instinct which is the
essence of religion, an integrity of spirit.
His tragedy is one in which both Black
and White share equal guilt. To condone
it further, to destroy the oldest form of
human life on earth is to debase human
dignity. Birds have nests, foxes have
holes we are reminded but the naked
little Bushman has no place to lay his
head.
Presented in this form, the argument
seems to be the conventional defence of
Romanticism with Heart, Imagination,
Experience put up against Mind. Reason
and Knowledge, yet the author's treat-
ment of it. although less extensive than
in his earlier account, “Venture to the
Interior,’ is still beautifully expressed,
persuasively argued.
The legends and fables of the Bush-
man come through with peculiar force
and charm. Accompanied by illustra-
tions by Maurice Wilson there are ver-
sions here of the Creation, the origin of
Fire and stories of the brave Ostrich,
the Honey-Diviner, the beautiful Eland
and fables about the Sun, the Rain and
Dawn's Heart, all accounted for possibly
by the Bushman's phrase: “There is a
dream dreaming us." The author’s inter-
pretation of these legends is illuminating.
DOUGLAS TERRY
WEIGHTY POETRY
A Spring Song. Ray Mathew. Uni-
versity of Queensland Press. 9s. 6d.
J>ay Mathew is a poet, short-story
writer and dramatist. The order of
importance is evident in “A Spring Song."
his first published play, in which the
poet's prose ultimately submerges the
craft of the story-teller and dramatist.
On the bones of a flimsy plot Mathr.v
has clothed his play with poetic symbol-
ism. The Dennison’s, a not so prosperous
farming family, bitter father, crushed
mother, frustrated daughters and a school-
teacher boarder are all closely knit to-
gether, but at the same time strangely
apart. Each generation misunderstands
the other with resulting antagonism. Ex-
ploring the theme that life must be lived
whatever is threatening, sickness, heart-
break, even death, Mathew uses loneliness
as the focal point of argument —not a
never ending solitude but the loneliness of
people desperately trying to come to
terms wk’ themselves.
The mood ranges from pure lyricism to
abject melancholia but without any
moments of intense dramatic revelation.
Perhaps this is intentional, but theatri-
cally it has its limitations. That Mathew
is a purist is evidenced in the construction
of his play. The first words immediately
expose the audience to the lyrical quality
of the writing, and. throughout, the re-
petitive dialogue continues to point up
theme mid plot with advantage.
The economy of words produces an
evocative style of speech indicative of
the poet’s approach to prose. Develop-
ing his plot, Mathew continues to use the
rhythmic style, but in later scenes, when
he appears to become obsessed With the
idea of freeing himself of conventional
limitations, a looseness in dramatic format
results in the play becoming an embryo
of a completed work, particularly when
the dialogue moves between symbolical
and realistic motifs. When this happens
the characters become too explicit about
their dreams and thoughts. Nevertheless,
“A Spring Song” has charm, a lyrical
feeling for the outback with many
brilliant and penetrating moments.
The introduction by Eunice Hanger
brought back a flood of memories and
long forgotten experiences of the original
typed script. Perhaps the greatest initial
impact on viewing this published version
was that many more Australian plays
would undoubtedly achieve production if
first read in printed form. This reviewer,
for one, hopes this will be but ths
first of a series of contemporary Aus-
tralian plays worthy of publication.
NORMAN McVICKER


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
I.O'SCELn'AN
\ PTY LTD .
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOK BINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented Ore
Concentrator has proved over many
years to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin to the
sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting Machines, George
Ellison Switch Gear, etc. Makers of
Classifiers, Water Filters, Steam Valves,
etc.
ifi
SPURRED BY SPITE
Solo for Several Players. Barbara
Jefferis. Dent. 13s. 3d.
The Fox in the Attic. Richard Hughes.
Chatto and Windus. 225. 6d.
Tf one excludes the much lengthier
recent novels of Patrick White,
Xavier Herbert or Hal Porter, whose
literary intention is entirely different from
that of Barbara Jefferis’s book, “Solo for
Several Players” is one of the best Aus-
tralian works of fiction I have read for
many a long day. The plot is intensely
exciting, and Miss Jefferis has avoided
dissipating the mounting tension of her
story in any way, by employing a most
uncommon restraint. The book is short,
the prose style spare but beautifully
adequate to its subject: a quite compli-
cated and subtle alteration in the relation-
ship between three of the comparatively
few characters. The action covers only
two to three hours, during which time a
girl, who is scared of flying and quite
ignorant of its techniques, is accidentally
by herself in a small airborne plane.
The other “players” in the “game” are
the people on the ground who maintain
radio contact with the “pilot” and attempt
to teach her enough simple skills in a
very short time to enable her to bring
the plane safely down. Of its kind, it is
a masterpiece.
Richard Hughes has published only
two novels before “The Fox in the Attic”
—both of them masterpieces of their
kind, also, and both very different. They
were “A High Wind in Jamaica” and “In
Hazard.” He must be an ageing man
now, and friends have urged him to pub-
lish this new novel, intended as the first
section of a trilogy to be called “The
Human Predicament,” before the work's
completion. He admits his slowness of
writing, and one cannot hope too much
that neither this nor any other cause
prevents the appearance of the trilogy
which he intends to be “a long historical
novel of his own times.” This book
shows certain faults arising from its
method of publication—for instance, a
few characters are introduced who have
little relevance as yet, but are obviously
destined to be important parts of the
whole. The events described take place
in 1923 in Wales, England and Bavaria.
The novel is easily read, superbly
entertaining, often moving and poetic,
often witty and sometimes very funny.
But it would be a mistake to read it too
easily, for a quite intricate symbology is
being developed here and that, any more
than the “plot,” is not by any means com-
plete. The central character is a young,
comparatively wealthy man v/ho is
hounded from his Welsh ancestral acres
and his self-chosen postwar life of seclu-
sion because he happened upon the body
of a drowned little girl. Village spite
subsequently imputed such refinements
of nasty behavior to him as, allied to the
shock the incident caused, decided him
to “see the world.” He went to stay with
Bavarian cousins—a household described
in terms varying between farce and
poetry, and which might seem quite
improbable until one recalls the observa-
tions of people like Spender and Isher-
wood a little later. From little-known
sources Hughes has reconstructed a
fascinating and utterly horrifying picture
of Hitler’s abortive bid for early power.
NANCY KEESING
CELESTIAL CYCLE
The Thesis of Paradise Lost. G. A.
Wilkes. AHRC Monograph No. 9.
Melbourne University Press. 7s. 6d.
Come dislikers of “Paradise Lost” will
never be convinced, because of a
lack of sympathetic response to Magni-
ficence in the old heroic sense of that
virtue. Our period will continue to have
its blinded pit-ponies diligently bringing
their little loads of Leavisite to the
surface.
But others may be susceptible to argu-
ments which tend to remove those
modern prejudices which have been
caused by unhistorical misreadings (how-
ever minutely scrutineering). G. A.
Wilkes is strongly recommended for this
purpose. He wisely accepts the ineradic-
able, and largely inevitable, defects of
the poem, and concentrates on keeping
things in proportion.
His chief contention is that modern
critics have tended to concentrate on
parts and miss the whole design ; or to
misread the intention of the main design.
In particular, :he master-theme of the
poem is not that disobedience to God
makes men wicked and miserable. The
main theme is the “celestial cycle” in
its completeness: the cosmic drama of
creation, fall and recovery. It is this
whole structure which is the poem;
and the masterful rhythm of this theme
tends to “submerge” the difficulties
inherent in various parts. The last two
books are not an afterthought but
essential to the consummation of the
poem.
JAMES McAULEY


"Race you to the Sphinx.”
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 679
Across
I—Who1 —Who are after a high structure in jumpers? (14)
8 — Such rum may not be popular, but it could be pro-
founder. (10)
9 An ancient ring to be got with sixpence. (4)
11—Drop a muscular twitch of tensely arresting character,
(8)
13 —A Tivoli character last month shed some hair. (5)
16— Console the place from which
this is operated. (5)
17 — Famous concert pianist with the
injured tail-tip. (7)
19 — Alternative one in the centre of
aristocratic headgear. (7)
20— Camphor sales are too much for
Hengest’s offsider. (5)
21— Times change to strike. (5)
23 —Chemical ammunition used by a
backward murderer. (8)
26 How to put an end to one game
spouse. (4)
27 This will lift the sparklers,
(5. 5)
29—This will lift the sparklers, also,
without loss of honor. (4, 2. 8)
Down
1— Feature of a talkie racecourse is
not in dangerous condition.
(5, 5)
2 Cook in charge of this effort.
(9)
3 Wave to an upset horse which
has swallowed a chemical. (12)
4 Listener. (3)
5 A fellow who gives some trouble
to the police shelter. (4)
6 Washer-up from Tallinn. (5)
7 A tonic fuss. (3)
10—Many a classy utensil may have
this policeman behind. (6, 6)
12 —Inborn fed under the tavern. (6)
14— Hamlet is rewritten in this Mel-
bourne suburb. (6)
15— II upset, it's likewise to sleeve-
ends during the fighting. (10)
18 —Radio tint, (anagram). (9)
22—Baseballer’s glove put on a
Murray tributary. (5)
24 —The French moved this bird. (3)
25: —Shaw wouldn’t swallow this four-
note musical theme. (4)
28 —High priest of Shiloh. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 678


*A
(First issues off the press)
ONVENIENCE
(Right to your mail-box)
CONTINUITY
(No chance of missing out)
HAVE
The
Bulletin
DELIVERED BY POST
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
NEW SUB./RENEWAL ,
(Please cross out one)
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please find enclosed my cheque I money-order for
months’ subscription to The Bulletin.
NAME:
ADDRESS: .
RATES (A/asia): 1 year —£2 125.; | year—£l 6s.
Post free. British C’wealth: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign:
£3 16s.
N.Z. CURRENCY (Remit to Box 965, Wellington,
N.Z.): A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d. ; % year—
19s. 6d. British C’wealth: £2 3s. Foreign £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether
the subscription is paid direct to The Bulletin
or any newsagent in Australia or N.Z.
TH E B U L LETI N
IS AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
NEWS MAGAZINE—
-52 pages of top-flight information. The press,
the radio, TV will dish you up the headline
news ... but The Bulletin has time to bring
you the news inside the news.
AND IT’S PACKED WITH
ENTERTAINMENT
Nearly every facet of modern life is reflected
in The Bulletin’s pages, so no wonder
anyone can find a little of himself—or herself
—in The Bulletin.
