

The Bulletin
price
AIRMAILED OVERSEAS 2/6
AU <jl|%T 11
IMCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FlMAteJMEwirifes
the student
generation
1 MALAYSIA
Off The' Ground?
• VICTORIA
A Teachers Strike?


LYSAGHT GRAIN AUGER
fills your
silos cheaper
than
ever before
MIS
'<<Sx
*BBs>
m
jv^wggS
I
j> m
|£4m, '<:«., I
It will pay you immediate ana lasting dividends to investigate this
new Auger, especially developed for use with Lysaght Silos. With
oats particularly, the Auger is faster and more economical than bag
handling. Operates by flat belt drive from tractor and the
tractor is very easily positioned. Easily assembled ! Designed to
fill a Silo battery from one position
AUGER SELECTION TABLE
3 POPULAR SIZES
21 FT . . £97
26 FT. . . £lO9
31 FT.. £ll6
(F.O.R. NEWCASTLE)
SUPPLIED COMPLETE WITH 8 BUSHEL
BUILT-IN HOPPER
FEATURES
• Suits all Lysaght Silos in the 1,200 b.
to 3,700 b. range.
•No maintenance all bearings
sealed.
• Flat Belt drive pulley supplied.
• Complete ready for attachment of
belt guide rollers for belt pro-
vided.
• Designed to fill Silo from centre of
roof—enabling maximum capacity
to be obtained.
• Exceptionally easy to assemble and
erect.
• Chute tubes are telescopic; cleaning
doors provided in hopper.
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
Offices in Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Fremantle
A4SRC


MALAYSIA Page 28
Off the Ground at last?
*
The Broadmeadows Reverse ....’ .... 6
A Note on Gordon Bennett 9
The Student Generation A Return
to Politics ... .... 12
Two Faces of Dedication Gordon
and Summerton 16
I Ain aTV Camera Robin Day 18
Jack Kennedy Fading image 19
People of the Sun by Pat Rolfe 21
Nasser 10 Years of Revolution 27
Victoria A Teachers’ Strike? 29
Television Review Frank Roberts 33
An Artist in South East Asia 36
Dried Fruits War .... 60
After the Budget 42
©
NATIONAL NOTEBOOK 4
TANNER 5
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
8# YEARS AGO 8
AROUND MELBOURNE II
OUT AND ABOUT 16
New York NEWSLETTER 19
SHORT STORY 21
OVERSEAS 26
FORUM 29
LETTERS ...... 31
REVIEWS ..... 33
RED PAGE .... ..... ... 36
WILDCAT 41
Man ON THE LAND 60
EEIFFER 63
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY. LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George St., Sydney
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521: Phone 27-5971
e 'bourne: Phone MF 3341. Brisbane: Phone
82691. Adelaide: Phone W 4121-3
Vol. 84
No. 4304
OVERSTATING A CASE...
nr'HREE main lines oi Australian thinking have become clear over the
" West New Guinea debacle:
© Peace at any price. This is the simple, uncomplicated notion that
West New Guinea must be handed over to placate not only a vengeful
Indonesia but an awakening, all powerful, monolithic Asia. A more
sophisticated version is the successful propaganda put out over the
years by the Communists and fellow travellers that Indonesia is not
only entitled to West New Guinea but that Dutch occupation of the
Territory has been a dirty, colonialist swindle.
© What does West New Guinea matter? Expectably, this has been
the most widespread attitude of all, nourished by the failure of the
Government in earlier years to warn and inform people of the wider
implications of the dispute.
# Spineless appeasement. The attitude exemplified by the relent-
less Sydney Morning Herald view that the Australian Government has
timidly submitted to Indonesian blackmail while cynically betraying
oui' Dutch allies and their Papuan wards. It is a misleading attitude
and regrettably shared by a wide number of people who are better in-
formed and more committed than most. Its strength lies in its criticism
of the way we as a government and nation have gone about things; our
failure, for example, to reckon with Communist subversion when we
share a common border with Indonesia, the Government’s unseemly
haste in dumping Dutch interests, its ill-timed gesture in sending De-
fence Minister Townley to Java, its reluctance to move hard and fast in
Australian New Guinea both to forestall UN criticism and to create a
buffer state against West New Guinea.
The weakness in this attitude lies in its almost total failure to
examine the hard facts of international life today; to examine and pro-
claim any feasible, workable alternative to that of coming to agreement
with Indonesia. On the West New Guinea dispute the Djakarta Gov-
ernment now has not only the support of Afro-Asia and the Communist
bloc but the support of the West-at least tacitly-as represented by
Britain and America. How is Australia to overcome that fact? Surely not
by going to war as Mr Calwell suggested only late last year.
This attitude also refuses to face facts about the United Nations
and about the sympathies of U Thant who seems to have a de-
cided pro-Asian bias. It also refuses to face facts about West New
Guinea itself. Only a very tiny proportion of its 800,000 people know
anything about freedom, responsible government or self determination-
and most of that only very recently. West New Guinea is on one view
Indonesian territory and therefore no more entitled to self determination
than any other part of Indonesia. If the contrary Dutch view is accepted
the question might well be asked - after self-determination what?
Those charging appeasement have never examined the realities
that would attend the successful Dutch creation of a free West Papuan
state. Lacking communications, skills and an economy, the object of
unrelenting Indonesian hostility, to whom would such a state look for
support? Holland? Russia? Australia? What help could we give it when
it is quite apparent that we are going to be hard put to it to help our
own Territory in the degree that will be necessary in the near future.
Indonesia, despite its friendly regard for this country, may prove
an uncomfortable neighbor when living directly next door. Only time
will tell. But it is well to bear in mind that it is a neighbor already
and will still be one long after the Dutch have returned home forever.


National
Notebook
Calling Mr Womsiwor
R main editorial office was bedlam
last Friday morning from about
eight to nine-thirty. Michael Charlton
and an ABN camera crew moved in
lights and all to shoot some “Four
Corners” film of Dutch Papuan leader
Herman Womsiwor. “Silence please
w'alk softly” notices were posted in all
corridors and for a miraculous hour or
so there wasn't a typewriter to be heard.
Mr Womsiwor proved to be short,
dark, vehement and in addition to speak-
ing Dutch, Malay and his native Biak
tongue also spoke fluent, racy English
with an American accent a legacy of
the days when he was picked up by
FIS troops in Dutch New Guinea and
taken to Japan.
Together with two other Papuans,
Tendom and Jufuwai. he had flown into
Sydney from Samoa (where he had been
a Dutch delegate to the South Pacific
Commission Conference) for a three
hour stopover before flying on to Biak
and then to Amsterdam and then to
New York. He w ; as tired and rather
short tempered w'hen w'e saw' him and
shocked by the news that Indonesia and
Holland had at last reached an agree-
ment on handing over West New Guinea.
He had quite a lot to say and you can
hear some of it on "Four Corners” this
coming Saturday night.
A Passion for the Guitar
Qo publicity-shy is Mr Patrick Bash-
tord, husband of the leading soprano
with this season’s Elizabethan opera
company, Miss Ana-Raquel Satre, that
he was in this country for nearly six
months before it was discovered that
he was a skilful player of the classical
guitar. Mr Bashford then gave a recital
at the Brisbane Conservatorium and one
in Sydney for the Society of the Classical
Guitar.
After Miss Satre's well-publicised
brush with a Brisbane music critic, Mr
Bashford tended to shy away from
publicity again, but he is sufficiently
devoted to the guitar to be willing at
all times to talk about it. “The guitar
is an instrument that people become
passionately fond of,” he said.
Mr Bashford's passion for the guitar,
he told us, began in his cradle. His
father, a British diplomat, was posted
to Poland at the time, and Mr Bash-
ford remembers the lullabies his Polish
nurse sang, accompanying herself on the
guitar.
In 1950, after finishing his national
service, Mr Bashford went to Spain,
ostensibly to learn Spanish with the
object of joining a relation in business
in Peru. However, he spent most of his
time in Granada, mixing with the gipsies.
“I didn't actually live with them in
their caves,” he said, “but I did spend
my days with them. I learnt their
language, a mixture of Spanish and
Romany, and they taught me to play the
guitar, flamenco-style. I used to make
some money, translating for tourists
when they had their fortune told by the
gipsies. It was wonderful at the time,
but it's all changed now. They have TV
sets in their caves”.
In 1960, in search of greater perfec-
tion Mr Bashford went to Cuba to take
lessons from Rey de la Torre. “It was
just after the revolution and nobody
would believe that I was just going there
for guitar lessons,” he said. “On the
plane from Florida I sat next to an
Englishman in bowTer hat, black suit
and with a furled umbrella. He turned
out to be a chap I had been to prep,
school with. He was with Lloyds and
was going to investigate the sinking of a
French ship in Havana harbor. Castro
claimed that the Americans had sabo-
taged the ship, in which case no in-
surance would be payable, but, of course,
the Americans protested innocence. It
was a very tricky situation, but I had
five days in the pay of the British Gov-
ernment as ‘our man in Havana’. I
went around the waterfront with this
chap, pretending I didn't speak Spanish
and picking up bits of information
which might lead to a proper estimate
of what had happened to the ship”.
In between times, Mr Bashford had
his lessons with Rey de la Torre, who,
he said, was “halfway to Australia”—
he has been asked here but details have
not been made final.
It appears to Mr Bashford that Aus-
tralia in relation to the classical guitar
stands about where England stood 10
years ago. “You have teachers at the
conservatoriums in Brisbane and Mel-
bourne now,” he said, “and I am sure
that Sir Bernard Heinze in Sydney must
be thinking of making an appointment”.
In Australia Mr Bashford has recorded
a scries of light classical pieces for ABC
television. “You know the sort of thj n
you see to fill out the time between p ro s
grammes,” he said, “well, instead of
.swan floating on a lake, they'll have
me playing the guitar”.
Drinking Notes from the
South
IV/lelbourne has suffered one way and
ITJL another during the past three weeks
but in the darkest moments there was
always the consolation that the local
brewery produced something that was
superior to anything world-w ide. Then it
happened. Toohey's brewery, Sydney
last seek started TO SEND BEER to
Melbourne. The hotels showed an
understandable reluctance to take the
beer, but it was snapped up by almost
all the licensed grocers in the metro-
politan area and even by some of the
clubs.
By the week's end it had moved so
quickly there were three shipments. The
beer came in cans, price 2s. 6d. com-
pared with 2s. for the local product.
But here was the meanest cut of all.
As if Melbourne had not suffered enough
indignities, the Toohey’s cans carried
pictures of the Sydney Harbor Bridge.
A lawyer has pointed out an interest-
ing angle to all this. There is a
controversy in Melbourne about the mis-
use of beer cans at football grounds.
Some grounds already have banned them
and others may have to do so. But
what about a can imported from Sydney?
Surely under Section 92 interstate trade
shall be free?
IT'S TIME TO BEGIN FORMAL
DISCUSSION


nrinkina Notes from the
Far South
Hobart hotel habituees have been
edified —or astonished —recently by
the parsons’ pub crawls. The chairman
of the Licensing Court, Col. A. P. Crisp,
has arranged a round of visits to hotels
to impress on the church the “revolu-
tionary” advances made in hotel appoint-
ments and services in the past few years.
The first party included the Anglican
Bishop, Bishop G. F. Cranswick, and
Father C. Kilby, representing Catholic
Archbishop G. Young. The second
group was made up of five members of
“other Christian denominations”, which
are not renowned for tolerance of liquor
or those selling it. This group included
Presbyterian, Congregational and Metho-
dist ministers. After his tour, a Metho-
dist minister, Mr A. W. Collins, said he
was “genuinely impressed”.
Our Hobart man is seeking accredita-
tion for all future tours.
Art in the Universities
With all the talk in Sydney about the
*’ Power art bequest to Sydney Uni-
versity, it is interesting to see what the
University of Western Australia is
currently doing for art through the Tom
Collins Memorial Fund.
The University’s Arts Union has
arranged an exhibition, enabling the
public to see together for the first time
the 30 paintings bought through the
memorial fund. These include six
Nolans, among them the Agricultural
Hotel and Huggard's Store.
Dr Salek Mine said opening the
exhibition: “It is good to see a university
buying paintings; it would be even nicer
to see it teaching visual arts, but a col-
lection like this is both a beginning, and
a promise of more to come”.
O pai-Gouger's Nightmare
JJhtE nightmare that keeps many a
Coober Pedy opal-gouger tossing in
his bachelor bed at night became a reality
last week when three Greeks returned
from the funeral of a mate to find their
dugout had been looted and a pillowcase
full of opal stolen. Value of the stolen
opal was placed at £5OOO, while another
lot worth £lOOO was missed by the
thief. Crime, including theft, generally is
rare on the Coober Pedy field—mainly
because the law of the old Wild West
whereby everyone respects his neigh-
bor’s property or risks his neck, still
operates.
Nevertheless, the prospects there must
represent a major attraction to anyone
who prefers to live off another’s toil. For-
tunes are still common at Coober Pedy,
despite the extraction of a vast amount
of opal over the years. Three partners
departed recently with a reputed £150,000
between them. Buyers come from the
south to purchase opal from the miners
and no buyer ever flourishes a cheque
book. Cash is the only currency recog-
nised, for reasons that are obvious, par-
ticularly to the Taxation Department.
Police from neighboring towns are
working on last week's theft and in a
community of only a few hundred whites
and natives their task should not be too
great. Their big worries could come later.
Greeks are outnumbered only by Italians
on the Coober Pedy held and open war-
fare between the two national groups is
never far below the surface. Last week’s
theft could well be the fuse to the powder
keg.
Spudding in
"13ast an isolated service station called
Busy Bee which advertises “King-
Size Hamburgers” in the hope of seduc-
ing passing motorists, we watched a spud-
ding-in. Spudding-in is when the search
for oil enters its potentially hopeful stage
—the time, according to the handout we
got “when the drill first bites into the
ground on the start of its long descent
into the earth’s crust, to probe and tap
nature's hidden reservoirs far below the
surface”—and so on.
This particular spudding-in was that of
Farmout Drillers’ (No Liability) Stock-
yard Mountain Well No. I—a1 —a few miles
outside Port Kembla and less than 50
miles from Sydney.
Although Farmout have all the geo-
logical odds in their favor in either dis-
covering oil or gas, the locals are under-
standably sceptical of the whole affair.
We were told that about five years ago
some bunker oil from a ship had floated
in to one of the swamps. On the strength
of this some enterprising gentleman took
his potential investors down to the
swamp, roused their enthusiasm—and
floated an oil company. The company
is no longer in existence.
Tanner
PRELIMINARY UNDERSTANDING
HAS BEEN REACHED ON WEST
IRIAN
THE DUTCH HAVE GIVEN IT TO US


This Australia
BRING BACK
THE FADDEN TOUCH
FROM ALAN REID IN CANBERRA
As I see it
Will th e
Common-
wealth Treas-
ury and its policies wreck the Menzies
Federal administration just as it had
helped wreck the Chifley Labor Gov-
ernment in 1949?
Labor's clear-cut win in the by-election
in the Victorian State seat of Broad-
meadows has given new point to this
question. For throughout the period since
November. 1960, with its Treasury-in-
spired financial measures, the Menzies
government has known that w'hile the
political wind w'as blowing chilly as far
as it was concerned it had Victoria to
keep it warm. Victoria, where Labor did
not make a gain, was the State that at
the December 1961 general elections
saved it from exposure to loss of govern-
ment. Now' even Victoria looked as
though it were going cold.
Superficially, the Broadmeadows by-
election was only a minor State electoral
result. But it is tied in with that most
extraordinary political decision of recent
years the decision by the non Labor
forces not to contest the by-election for
the Melbourne Federal seat of Batman,
left vacant by the death of Mr Alan Bird,
who had held it for Labor since 1949.
Figures gave non-Labor more than a
chance. Mr Bird won the seat in 1961
by an absolute majority of 4108. But
Batman in State elections is divided into
two seats Northcote and Ivanhoe. In
Northcote. the ALP candidate at the
July, 1961, State elections won the seat
with a majority of 2582. But in Ivanhoe
the Liberal candidate won that seat with
a majority of 5090. In other words, the
Liberals with Democratic Labor Party
backing had a majority of the vote
in the seat on the 1961 State election
figures.
The only conclusion that you reached
for the Liberals' otherwise inexplicable
decision not to put up a candidate in Bat-
man is that they had reason to believe
they would get a shellacking like the one
they got in Broadmeadows.
As 1 see it, if the Liberals do not
settle down to do some heavy thinking
they deserve everything that is inevitably
coming to them.
What can they think? Why has the
tide that ran steadily in their direction
for so many years turned? They enjoyed
the years they have had in office for two
reasons. There was their own perform-
ance and there was the state of the
Labor Party w'hich represents the alter-
native government.
The state of the Labor Party has not
improved discernible. Unity tickets are
as rife. New- South Wales, strongly anti-
Communist, is feuding even more pub-
licly than it has in past years with
Victoria, whose extremist views dominate
the ALP Federally. If Labor has not
improved, then it is the performance of
the Liberals that has declined.
If you study the history of the Men-
zies administration over recent years,
you find that there is a watershed in its
affairs. This watershed came when Sir
Arthur Fadden retired from the Treasury
and the Parliament. Fadden was not a
brilliant man. But he was a shrewd man.
who remembered very clearly that
Treasury had helped to wreck his pre-
decessor, the late Mr Chifley, by telling
him that it was impossible for him to lift
petrol rationing without ruining Australia
financially. Then Fadden came into
office, lifted petrol rationing and
watched Australia enjoy probably the
most prosperous period in its history.
Fadden was no expert and never pre-
tended to be. But when Treasury pre-
sented him with policies which were
based on the premise that unemployment
was not a significant factor politically,
Fadden made rude, disbelieving Austra-
lian noises and sent them back to devise
other policies based on the opposite
premise that employment was politically
all important.
When Fadden retired. Holt took over
the Treasury. He became an expert. He
could leave Fadden tor dead in ex-
plaining such complex subjects as the
balance of payments and its importance
to the Australian economy. He is much
clearer than Fadden when dealing with
technical subjects such as loan raising,
debt funding, and the like But he ac-
cepted and became the advocate for
policies based on the premise that
unemployment really did not matter
politically.
The outcome was that Prime Minister
Menzies and his followers came within
a wLisker of losing office in 1961.
Menzies or somebody of commensur-
ate stature has o convince the elec-
torate of the genuineness of the Govern-
ment’s determination to re-establish and
maintain full employment, and the
longer the delay in taking action of this
type the more difficult it is going to be
to get a favorable response from the elec-
torate.
THE GAMES
NO DAIMLER FOR SIR HARRY
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
T>erth’s Commonwealth Games are no
longer an athletic contest. They are
a status symbol of the city’s progress,
and Lord Mayor Sir Harry Howard is
the biggest symbol of them all.
He may not be the most dignified of
Australia’s Lord Mayors, but he is cer-
tainly the most conscious of his dignity.
He wears his mayoral robes and chain
of office frequently, and is never seen
out of morning coat and bowler hat. He
snatched the games for Perth out of
Adelaide’s hands at the eleventh hour
and is determined to run them in a
manner befitting Perth's position as Aus-
tralia’s most hospitable city.
His plans received a minor but smart-
ing set-back last week when the Perth
City Council decided to defer the ques-
tion of buying a new official car for
six months. This means that Sir Harry
will probably have to use his six year-
old Daimler for transporting official
guests instead of the new Daimler the


council’s plant committee had picked
out for him. The decision to defer the
Daimler purchase came only a month
after some councillors had claimed he
didn’t need a Daimler at all, and sug-
gested he content himself with a Chrysler
Royal.
The purchase of the Daimler would
make Sir Harry the most luxurious
mayor in Australia, automotively speak-
ing. Adelaide’s Lord Mayor makes do
wilh a Chrysler Royal. Melbourne and
Brisbane run to an Austin Princess and
Sydney is suitably American with a
F “ ‘ llr ;mc '
The controversy surrounding the pur-
chase of the Daimler brought to light
some revealing facts about the cost of
official cars. Since the original Daimler
was purchased in 1956, it has cost
£5,488 in maintenance and its trade-in
value is only a third of its original pur-
chase price of £4,856. It costs almost
2/1 a mile to run it against lOd. a mile
for the council’s general purpose
Chrysler Royal. Inside its dignified ex-
terior are several leaks, caused by the
warping of the specially built wooden
frame. This was put in because the
council had asked for a car six inches
higher than the normal model so that
the Lord Mayor could step in and out
at official functions in his full regalia,
If the council quit the old Daimler now
and bought the new one currently on
offer the change-over would cost £3,800.
To step down to a Chrysler Royal would
cost only £574.
TTowever, the cost of buying the
11 Daimler wi|l be , s corapared
t 0 the total cost of the Games t 0 the
Council. The current estimate is
3,250,000, and this is , ikely t 0 be
h - her when the overtime bills for the
„ ew G 1 ic swimming pool come in .
For this fi § ure the cit Y § ets an
athletic stadium and its first Olympic
swimming pool, a velodrome for cycle
racing and an assortment of new roads
around the Games suburb of Floreat
Park. The Games look like being a
total sell-out and an estimated 20,000
visitors will invade the city from Nov-
ember 22 to December 1.
POLITICS
THE MORAL OF BROADMEADOWS
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
The Bolte Government suffered its first
set-back since it assumed office in
1953 when Labor had a resounding win
in the by-election for the Legislative
Assembly seat of Broadmeadows last
Saturday. The ALP candidate, Mr J.
Wilton, is safely home with an absolute
majority over his LCP and DLP
opponents. Compared to the result at
the State election in July the vote repre-
sented a swing of 10 per cent, to the
ALP.
For the late Mr H. E. Kane, whose
death caused the Broadmeadows poll, the
seat had always been a marginal one
which he could not have held without
DLP preferences. Mr Kane was an able
local member, but in the July 1961 poll
found himself some 4000 votes behind
his ALP opponent on the first count. The
distribution of 7726 DLP preferences
turned the result into a win for Mr Kane
and this had been the pattern of Broad-
meadows contests since he first won the
seat in 1953.
With counting virtually complete, the
DLP seems to have substantially held its
vote polling 7029. But the magnitude
of the swing away from the Liberals was
such that the DLP, however disciplined
lts second preferences may have been,
was powerless to tip the scales back.
With the Liberal vote down to 27.76 per
ce nt. and with the ALP polling 54.54
per cent., the DLP’s 17.18 per cent, was
an ineffectual minority vote.
By-elections, as Mr Bolte has consoled
himself, are not general elections, but
both he and Mr Menzies must be well
aware that the tide of opinion is running
at least as strongly against them as in
December 1961. More than anything,
the result must be a reminder to both
Federal and State Liberal Members in
Victoria and there is a limit to what the
DLP can do to push them into parlia-
ment. If their party is to hold its ground,
its whole organisation needs revitalising.
From the ALP point of view, the
result was a good demonstration of what
can be achieved when the Party’s
resources can be concentrated on a single
target. The ALP used a full-time
organiser and brought its Federal leaders,
Messrs Calwell and Whitlam into the
campaign. (The Liberals used Mr Bolte,
but did not bring in any Federal figures.)
Amidst Liberal dismay and Labor
jubilation, the DLP can be reasonably
satisfied with its own vote which fell
only by 1.77 per cent. In elections which
run on normal patterns, it can still hold
the balance of power in Victoria. An
election, however, in which the Liberals
can only poll 27.76 per cent, is any-
thing but normal. The lesson for the
DLP may be “business as usual” but the
Liberals can hardly afford to think that
way.
PEACE
HIROSHIMA DAY
From a Melbourne Correspondent
The Hiroshima Day Peace demonstra-
A tion which produced hard blows in
Brisbane, only led to hard words in
Melbourne. While the Brisbane fracas
involved young supporters of the QLP,
the more restrained conflict in Mel-
bourne centred around members of the
University ALP Club.
As before, this year’s peace demon-
stration was organised by the Australia
and New Zealand Congress for Inter-
national Co-operation and Disarmament.
However, the local Campaign for
Nuclear Disarmament decided to support
the demonstration and successfully
negotiated with the ANZ congress to
have one of its own speakers address
the rally at the Olympic swimming pool.
The ALP club also decided to support
the march to the pool, but insisted on
using its own banners and leatlets. As
the marchers assembled opposite the
Trades Hall, there was consternation and
feverish consultation among the Com-
munists and die-hard fellow-travellers
who form the nucleus of Melbourne
“peace activists”. “No CND in Russia”,
“end colonial rule including eastern
Europe”, “no peace movements in
Russia” were some of the banners which
startled and jarred.
At the pool, the ANZ congress kept its
promise and let the CND speaker have
the platform. He was Mr Ross Terrill
of the Melbourne University Political
Science Department whose brief address
received none of the enthusiasm shown
by the audience of 2000 for the speeches
of Mr Goldbloom, Dr S. Benwcll or Mr
J. V. Stout. It was, in fact, very coldly
received.
Mr Stout’s speech was not only
warmly acclaimed by his supporters, but
also met with a lot of interjections from
the students. When he complained of the
evils of world empires, there were cries
of “what about Russia?” and the same
interjection was made when Mr Stout
went on to discuss the exploitation of
man by man. A group of plug-uglies
moved over to the student group and
promised them a bashing if they did not
shut up. Asked under whose authority
the bashing was to be administered, one
claimed he was acting for Mr Gold-
bloom.
However, nobody was bashed and to
show that no ill-feeling was meant the
students wrote out a cheque for 50
roubles payable to the ANZ congress and
had it passed up to Mr Goldbloom in
the collection.


UNIONS
ON THE GRAVY TRAIN
From MUGGA
/Overseas trips are one of the most
" prized plums of office for Australian
trade union officials and the jostling and
double-crossing for votes often shows an
intensity not seen in ideological battles.
The trips are usually a gravy ride with
much wining and dining from their
counterparts in other countries and the
trips provide an opportunity of “getting
away from it all” for a couple of months.
(In some countries officials are offered
the services of a girl for their stay.)
Last week in the board-room of the
Australian Council of Trade Unions'
office in Melbourne, the members of the
Metal Trades Group met and elected two
delegates to represent Australia at the
International Labor Organisation meeting
in Geneva next December. The two
members who were elected are Mr Alec
McLaglan, the non-Communist Secre-
tary of the Moulders’ Union and Mr
Albert Amos, a Communist Organiser
from the Sheetmetal Workers’ Union in
Sydney.
Each of the nine unions in the Metal
Trades Group has two votes and
the first surprise the delegates received
was when the Vice-President of the
ACTU, Mr W. Evans, did not vote but
gave his two votes to his co-Federa-
ted Engine Drivers’ delegate. Although
it often happens at these meet-
ings that there is only one delegate
from a union and he consequently has
two votes to cast, it is unheard of for
a delegate present not to cast his vote
This was the first sign to those anti-
communists and non-Communists pre-
sent that something was afoot. By not
casting his vote it was clear that Mr Evans
was going to assist in electing someone to
the ILO by active non-participation and it
was fairly certain that that man was
going to be the Communist Organiser of
the Sheetmetal Workers’ Union, Mr
Amos.
The first delegate elected was Mr Mc-
Laglan from the Moulders. The two
candidates who were left were Druis
from the ETU and Amos from the
Sheetmetal Workers’ Union and when
preferences were distributed they both
ended up with nine votes each. On a
count-back Amos was declared elected
because he had received more primaries
than Druis.
Communist-Party member Amos owes
his trip to Mr Albert McNolty of the
Sheetmetal Workers’ Union, the Victor-
ian ALP unity ticket advocator who
followed his usual custom in trade union
affairs by preferring a CP member to
any non or anti-Communist unionist.
Mr Amos is also indebted to Mr Evans
who must surely have known that his
co-delegate would leak one of his votes
away from Druis to Amos.
One possible explanation given for
Mr Evans’ extraordinary performance is
that he may be attempting to win sup-
port for the right to succeed ACTU
President Monk, should Mr Monk have
to resign because of ill-health. If this was
his aim it is doubtful whether it will
come off because recent moves by Com-
munist and pro-Communist union
members in the ACTU indicate that
their aim is to have Mr Souter, present
ACTU Secretary, elected to fill Mr
Monk's position.
Once Souter was elected their aim
would be to isolate him. Their candidate
for the Secretary’s job would be Mr
Deverall, at present AEU industrial of-
ficer. With Mr Souter isolated, the Com-
rades would expect little opposition from
Mr Deverall who, while he is a non-
Communist, is a trade union appointee
lacking the experience in the rough-and-
tumble of union politics.
THE DEATH OF HENRY KENDALL
s s feulletCn
August 12, 1882
ITere’s a true yarn about poor
Henry Kendall, which has never
found its way into the papers, and
which will be appropriate at the pres-
ent time as showing that though he
had a failing he made many struggles
to conquer it. An intimate friend, an
artist, met him one day. “Jack”, Ken-
dall said, “I’m turning over a new
leaf. I’ve declared war, sanguinary
war to the knife, against grog, and
I’ve opened the campaign gloriously.”
“Glad to hear it, old man, —hope
you’ll be victorious.” The following
week they met again. “Well”, said
Jack, “how’s the war?” “Progressing
favourably,” replied Kendall, “but
with a sort of compromise the
demon and 1 shake hands when we
meet.” Another week elapsed and the
friends met. “How’s the war, Ken-
dall?” asked the artist. “All over,”
replied the poet. “Complete and
glorious victory. The demon has won.”
or tw’o of the papers ask how
it was that so many attended the
funeral of a rich publican, and so
few that of a poor poet. The reason
lay in this one conquered by
liquor, the other way by liquor con-
quered. The world still worships the
golden calf.
RELIGION
NO CATHOLICS!
FROM BOB BOTTOM IN CASINO
A religious row with all the bitterness
of the Goulburn affair is simmering
at Casino.
The affair began on June 8 when a
local spokesman for the UPA, Mr B.
Attrill, announced that his association
intended buying the Richmond Hospital
for use as an aged persons’ home.
Simultaneously, the Casino Ministers’
Fraternal, comprising ministers of the
Church of England, Presbyterian. Baptist,
Methodist Churches and the district of-
ficer of the Salvation Army, asked
publicly for a definite ruling from a
responsible official of the UPA whether
the constitution of the association forbade
the admission of Catholics to UPA
homes.
“If this is so we, as a fraternal, feel
that we must disassociate ourselves with
the principle involved,” the statement
said.
That apparently shook the UPA, for
within a week its district manager at
Lismore, Mr J E. Wilcox, issued a public
statement claiming that the UPA had
never barred a person from its homes
because of his religious beliefs.
However, five days later the Rector of
the Anglican Church at Casino the Rev.
W. A. Brown, retorted with a blistering
attack on the UPA and Mr Agst. He said
that in answer to a question from him
at a public meeting at Casino on June
2, Mr Agst, the founder-general manager
of UPA, had said that Catholics definitely
would not be admitted to the home
because the UPA’s constitution would
not allow it. “He then went on at length
in a spirit of bitterness and bigotry.”
Concluding his statement, which oc-
cupied two full columns in the “Rich-
mond River Express,” Mr Brown
declared: “I cannot associate myself with
an association whose founder shows such
bigotry as shown by Mr Agst.”


POSTSCRIPT TO BENNETT
By Ek DUM
H. G. BENNETT
Lone hand
rpuE estimations of Harry Gordon
-*■ Bennett contained in most of his
obituary notices call for a postscript. It
is insufficient to sum him up in specific
terms of his later days when he was
almost always controversial.
The focus of his life initially belongs
to World War I. Perhaps the best
epitome of him would be to say that he
had a natural instinct for the offensive
which sometimes translated itself into
precipitancy. His conceptions were all
written in terms of action or of setting
the stage for immediate action.
He was suspicious of controversy, im-
patient of contradiction and apt to be
scornful of compromise. He was, in fact,
the tenacious regimental officer, fearless
and courageous, who never quite grew
out of the complex of utter contempt
for danger, whether under a hail of
bullets on Plateau 400 at Gallipoli or in
the making of tactical decisions at high
level.
Where cool-headed military planners
have always aimed to out-think the
enemy, Bennett acted on instinct rather
than judgment and on the theory that it
was better to present the opponent with
the unexpected in violence before he had
time to think at all, or while he was
engrossed with the evolvement of plans.
It was a complaint of those who
shared high command with him and who
had the ultimate responsibility that he
could never conform to a consensus of
opinion which dealt in precautions and
alternatives; that if troops other than his
own were concerned he was unable to
envision their roles; that he held a blind
conviction that if Australian troops were
present others did not matter.
His unconcealed self-reliance and con-
fidence in his own men did much to
endear him to those under him, even
when exhibitions of some of his less
lovable qualities were most in evidence.
Yet admirable as his loyalty to his troops
was, there were times when it produced
injustice of outlook, which did not aid
harmony in his relationships with
superior British commanders, or even
other Australian commanders.
His was a black and white world when
it came to military judgments. It was said
of him in one obituary article that he
‘‘hated blimps”, but this must be inter-
preted in conjunction with his view of
what constituted a “blimp”. And his
interpretation was apt rather to be
generous in the width of its ambit than
in charity. Generically he rated all regu-
lars as blimps unless they were prepared
to plunge into the breach forthwith in the
best Shakespearian manner. Generally
speaking, all Citizen soldiers were not
blimps, unless they specifically proved
otherwise. Fie was especially down on
British regulars and his associations with
Australian regulars in high places were
not exactly heartwarming.
It was, indeed, fortunate for some of
them in Word War II that his escape
from Malaya placed him in a contro-
versial position and sapped his influence,
for until public reactions to that incident
became obvious, Curtin, the Prime
Minister, a man apt to lean on others in
crisis, had a tremendous faith in him.
Had he returned to Australia in other
circumstances, or had the invasion of
Malaya taken place while he was or the
way from the Middle East to Singapore,
his advice might have been fatal to the
careers of some of them.
ITe was not too pleased with any of the
leaders in the Middle East, including
at least one man who afterwards made
a brilliant reputation among the moss
forests of New Guinea. He saw nothing
in the Syrian fighting that inspired him
“very little in the way of lessons”.
The Seventh Division which he en-
countered in its Syrian operations had
“not seen much modern fighting,” he
thought, and although it had evidently put
up a good show against the Vichy French
its victory had been “cheap and simple”,
with few casualties except in isolated
cases. He criticised everybody after-
wards. This Australian general played up
to the Staff Corps; he was not too pleased
with that one; a lot of bungling here;
situation nebulous there; the battle lacked
drive and punch; the lack of support of
the Navy was a “bad show”.
When he returned to Malaya, arriving
in Singapore on the day the Prince of
Wales and Repulse were sunk, he, rightly
or wrongly, formed the same opinion of
nearly everybody concerned in the area
outside the AIF, except General Pow-
nall for whom he had a great admiration.
The history of the few weeks from
November 18, 1941-February 15, 1942,
when he escaped from Malaya, firmly
convinced, I believe, that it was his duty
to return to teach Australian Head-
quarters the theory and practice of jungle
fighting and inject a fighting spirit into
them, are very revealing. It exhibited
his red-headed aggressive spirit to per-
fection, and also his inability to appre-
ciate the essentials of a military situation
and the world in other men of a
different training and outlook to his view-
point.
His stubbornness and aggressiveness
were sovereign virtues in a young colonel
and put him on a pedestal in the best
age of the Australia Citizen Army, when
it attracted a particular type of young
officer element which to some degree
the army lacked in World War 11, since
the outlook of selfless daring took them
to the RAAF rather than the AIF.
TTnfortunately, he carried his com-
bativeness into civil life and into his
consistent advocacy of the basic prin-
ciples of Australian defence which he
favored, seeing no virtue in any argument
and no logic in any objections to full
adoption of his plans for compulsory
universal training, however difficult they
might be to carry out. Thus, while a
great Australian, a legend for bravery,
beloved of his men and loving them, he
earned the reputation of an odd man out.
And so for that matter he was.
My first intimate contact with him was
when he was a Sydney Civic Commis-
sioner as a member of a Government
Committee and I had to meet him with
his two fellow Commissioners, the suave
and experienced John Garlick (Chair-
man of the Commission) and the mono-
lithic Morton who had been Melbourne
City Engineer. We began proceed-
ings by suggesting to Garlick that
we should explore the problems and
see what points could be conceded by all.
Garlick agreed. Morton agreed. Bennett
said: “I concede nothing. I'll blow you
out on every point I can.’' And he kept
his promise with a vengeance. Every-
thing was done almost over his dead
body as was characteristic with him.
I should sum him up as a man made
to play a lone hand, a sort of military
Churchill who was bred for a position of
domination in a crisis of last resort,
which fate failed to provide for him. It
was no more use trying to mix him with
others for the formulation of ideas than
it would be to mix coffee with tea. Fie
just did not blend in conference. But as
an individual he was superb.


LAW
BELLANTO'S
CONTEMPT
FROM RALPH BLUNDEN IN SYDNEY
ANTHONY BELLANTO
£20
TTie Full High Court this week ended
the battle by Sydney barrister
Anthony Bellanto for what he claims is
counsel’s traditional right of fearless ad-
vocacy. The High Court dismissed his
appeal against a £2O fine for contempt
of court.
Judge Prior imposed the fine after a
Quarter Sessions trial in which Bellanto
had unsuccessfully defended a young
man charged with physical assault on a
young woman.
Bellanto asked the judge to “vacate”
his fine. Judge Prior refused. Bellanto
appealed to the District Court, then the
Supreme Court and finally the High
Court. He lost all along the way. He
could, if granted permission, take it to
the Privy Council, but has decided
against doing so.
What was the nature of Bellanto’s
contempt? During the trial -T Bellanto’s
client for assault the female victim said
the accused “used to come to the place
where I worked and bash me up.”
Judges held subsequently that it was
debatable whether this evidence about
an alleged previous assault was admis-
sible. They felt it was possible the evi-
dence could be given to refute the
accused’s claim that his assault on the
girl was an accident. Whatever the legal
position may be, the woman’s evidence
sent Bellanto’s cackles rising. He asked
Judge Prior to discharge the jury, claim-
ing the evidence had prejudiced the fair
trial of his client. Judge Prior ordered
the evidence to be struck from the
record but declined to discharge the
jury.
From this moment onwards exchanges
between judge and counsel grew sharper.
Bellanto was cross-examining the woman
about evidence she had given in a lower
court which Bellanto thought contra-
dicted her story at the trial. The judge
directed the witness’s attention to her
own explanation of the apparent con-
tradiction in the lower court depositions.
Bellanto then said: I ask Your Honor
not to interfere or interrupt my cross-
examination of this witness. Your Honor
knows Butler’s case. . . .
The judges of the State Full Court
thought Judge Prior had acted with
“complete propriety, in the interests of
clarity and justice.” They also said they
were “not unmindful of the possibility
of a judge in some cases destroying the
value of cross-examination by premature-
ly putting questions.”
Butler’s case, which Bellanto referred
to, was a criminal appeal in which the
judges weighed the propriety of a judge
taking part as if he were counsel in an
elaborate examination of a witness in a
manner unfair to witness and counsel.
The Supreme Court thought Butler’s
case had “scant relevance”. They thought
Bellanto had lost his temper and even
his own counsel, Senator L. K. Murphy,
QC, admitted he had a loud voice.
The judges when they threw out his
appeal in the Supreme Court said it was
counsel’s obligation to accept the ruling
of a judge and not his right to seek
ways of circumventing it. His course,
they said, was if he felt the ruling was
wrong to have his objection noted and
appeal to a higher tribunal.
Bellanto’s client was convicted and
appealed but the appeal was dismissed.
A n extract from the transcript of the
Quarter Sessions’ trial show's the
heat:
Judge: I know you are trying to
manoeuvre yourself into the position
where I will ask you to take yourself
out of this court. I know that is your
object.
Bellanto: I ask Your Honor to with-
draw that as it is most improper.
Judge: At the end of this case I may
take certain action unless you behave
yourself.
Bellanto: Is Your Honor threatening
me? I am not concerned about what
Your Honor does to me. But I am con-
cerned about what Your Honor does to
the accused in the interests of justice.
Judge: At the end of this case I may
call on you to show' cause why I should
not commit you for contempt.
Bellanto: I am not concerned with
how you deal with me, but only with
justice for the accused.
Judge: Do not raise your voice to
me. That is a matter I will take into
account if I am committing you for
contempt.
Later the same day, Judge Prior said:
“My view is that having asked me to
discharge the jury, which application I
refused, you deliberately went out of
your way to be as insulting and disre-
spectful to the court as you were able,
in the hope you would be ordered from
the court, thus necessitating a further
trial of your client.”
Bellanto replied: “I can only say if
Your Honor feels I have done any-
thing to impugn the dignity of the court
or that I have done anything which
would be likely to reflect on your judic-
ial dignity then I am sorry. I cannot say
any more.
Judge Prior did not accept the apology
and fined Bellanto £2O. The Full Bench
of the Supreme Court recorded its
view “that in appropriate circumstances
and in a proper manner, counsel may re-
quest a judge from interfering with his
cross-examination at what he believes
to be a critical point. But if his words
took the form of insults, or if the
manner of their utterance was insult-
ing and offensive, then they could
amount to an abuse of a barrister’s
privilege and the judge might treat the
utterances as contempt.”
The High Court endorsed this view.
ABORIGINES
4 BLACK FAMILIES
FROM C. M. MILNE IN ADELAIDE
A decision by the SA Aborigines De-
partment to house four aborigine
families in a Port Pirie suburb has caused
a stir in that mid-northern town. Several
residents in the suburb drew up a pro-
test petition, and collected about 80
signatures throughout the town. Their
complaint was that the aborigines' stan-
dards of living and hygiene were well
below that of the community, and their
presence would devalue property.
But while Mr Green, whose house
was next door to one bought for an
aborigine family, was organising his pro-
testers, another neighbor, Mr King, was
organising supporters. About i5O people
attended a meeting at which the Port
Pirie branch of the Aborigines Advance-
ment League was formed. At the meeting
a resolution was passed welcoming the
decision to settle the aborigine families
in Port Pirie. Mr Green attended the
meeting and was nominated to the com-
mittee. He declined.
Throughout the State, people rallied
in support of the aborigines. Towns
where other aborigines had been housed
spoke glowingly about their new citi-
zens. In the Press, letters solidly backed
the move and both newspapers strongly
supported the proposals.
Finally, last week, the petitioner pro-
testers announced that “having laid our
petition, we are prepared to accept any
decision made by the Aborigines Protec-
tion Board concerning assimilation”.
The way is now clear for the four
families to be housed. The result of the
trial of strength was a resounding victory
for the Department.


Around Melbourne
NOT JUST A BEER-UP CLUB!
TAear friends, the tim has almost
arrived to abandon Melbourne to
the bankers and parking meters. The
other day I stood in front of Scotts
Hotel which was one of the few
remaining oases at the ulcer end of
Collins Street. Mr Whelan the
wrecker, who has done so much more
than the Temperance Society to get
rid of hotels in our town, was in full
cry. The Robbie Burns room was
gone, the Edinburgh Room was a
heap of rubble and, oh fellow
drinkers, the iron ball was crashing its
way into the public bar.
Scotts was the oldest hotel in Mel-
bourne. Back in 1837, when Mel-
bourne was only two years old, it was
called the Lamb Inn. The Melbourne
Club, which came into being a few
years later was just over the road. It
had a reputation for outrageous sky-
larking behavior and The Lamb Inn
was a favorite spot for club mem-
bers. The Old Lamb was the head-
quarters for the famous duel between
two club members, Mr Peter Snod-
grass and Mr William Ryrie on
January 1, 1840. After he duel was
over everybody came back to the
Lamb Inn and got plastered.
Scotts over the years became an
establishment of refinement and the
nice people from the Western District
invariably stayed there. When the
licence ran out at the end of last year
there was some sadness. Naturally
people wanted to have something to
remember the place by.
One gentlemen nicked off with an
ice bucket under his coat, a lady put
a coffee pot under her bodice. Ash
trays, glasses, salt and pepper shakers
all went and those who had a real flair
for that sort of thing got away with
chairs.
Just before the closing, an inter-
esting little advertisement appeared in
the newspapers:
Twenty-five thirsty members
Scott's back bar urgently require
elbow-room in similar establish-
ment, equivalent service same
locality. Bring own barmaid.
Any reasonable offer accepted.
Ellen and The School.
Ellen was Ellen Moore the bar-
maid, and the club composed mainly
of shipping and wool men was
devotedly loyal. Although it was
never published, the offer was accepted
by Menzies Hotel. Ellen Moore and
the Ellen Club shifted to Menzies’ new
bar in Little Collins Street.
In a few days Scotts will disappear
altogether and in its place will rise yet
another 16-storey insurance palace, as
antiseptic as a sheet of kleenex.
Hotels in the city can no longer
meet costs. In Bourke Street 100
years ago there were 100 pubs. Now
there are six. Melburnians, you will
be surprised to hear, are far more
interested in money than in beer. In
the Golden Mile we have 84 banks
but only 60 hotels. Twenty-four hotels
have closed in the past 10 years and
more are on the way.
Even the citizens themselves do not
realise the gravity of the situation.
Take Adelaide, as the city of churches
it has 84 pubs in its Golden Mile
24 more than the energetic city of
Melbourne. But this is supposed to be
the beer capital, the home of the six
o’clock swill. Soon there will be no-
where for the swill to take place.
Supreme Court Hotel, the
Yarra Family, the Port Phillip
Club, The Astoria, The Occidental
and Parers, which very decently, we
thought, housed the headquarters of
Alcoholics Anonymous all gone.
The only hope is The Southern
Cross Hotel, which the Prime Minis-
ter will open by cutting a ribbon on
August 24. Here the bar facilities will
be the best in town. One of the bars
is called “The Tavern”. It’s an Ame-
rican’s dream of an old-time English
tavern.
There are flutey bits of carved tim-
ber, an un-polished stained floor, pews
(bless ’em) to sit upon, and no end
of stained glass. In many ways it is
like a chapel in St. Paul’s Cathedral.
The saloon bar is about the length of
the nave in St. Paul’s. Mercifully
Pan-American has resisted any local
attempts to call it the Las Vegas, the
drinkerama, or the Cocktailery. The
saloon bar is called simply “The Pub”.
Yet with the passing of hotels per-
haps we are developing a new kind of
sensitivity and understanding. While
Melbourne has always been rife with
wine and food societies there has
never been a beer society. In fact
nowhere in the country has there been
such a society. Well, now we have
the Beer Appreciation Society of Aus-
tralia which meets once weekly at the
Kilkenny Inn Hotel in the City. The
president is Mr John Lonergan of the
Australian Broadcasting Commission.
Now this isn’t just a beer up club.
It’s deadly serious. The glasses are
even washed in cloudy ammonia so
that the clarity will be perfection for
observing the beer’s behavior. The
beer is not quaffed savagely, it is ap-
preciated.
Members hold the glasses to the
light to observe the color, they dip
their noses into the froth to sense the
bouquet, the aroma of the malt and
the fragrance of the hopfields.
Every week they taste a different
beer. They have had beers from
Germany, England, India, Holland,
Poland, and from every State in Aus-
tralia. They mask the bottles and
cans, in the same style as the wine
societies and it is the duty of each
member to write down his comments.
Generally they have found the
melty European beers superior to
those in Australia and perhaps the
best beers of all, Urquel Pilsener from
Pilsener in Czechoslovakia.
German beers, too, and particularly
Dortmunder Special, have been very
much admired.
Judging from the comments, the
Australian beer that has gained the
greatest general approval so far, is
Hannan’s Kalgoorlie beer, made from
an old German recipe. They felt this
was a beer with character. Other com-
ments have been most interesting, like
the day they brought on a masked
bottle of a famous Melbourne beer.
Comment 1: “Pleasing in color but
nothing else. I detect no flavor in the
mouth, and no aftertaste. I would
classify it as a watery Dutch.”
Comment 2: “Pathetic is the word
I would use to describe this very light
beer. I would serve it as a training
beer for young people. I feel it hasn’t
enough character even to be described
as a lady’s beer.”
Comment 3: “An insipid experi-
ence”.
Three other members said they like
it. But I think BASA shows great
promise and as a critical body it
could do much good for the beer
industry. Every week they put a shil-
ling a head into kitty to buy a Tatts
ticket. When they win they will en-
dow a travelling scholarship to the
Munich Beer Festival. A very worthy
aim.
BATMAN


THE STUDENT GENERATION
After the Stagnant Fifties, a revival of politics
By PETER COLEMAN
t\)R years now a picture has been built
up of the new generations of Aus-
tralian University students as politically
apathetic, socially conformist and hope-
lessly careerist. The picture is usually
sharpened by contrasts with earlier
periods. The 1920'5, say the critics, were
the great days when student newspapers,
Student Representative Councils, Labor
Clubs and Student Christian Movements
were formed—the time of, say, Brian
Fitzpatrick or Lloyd Ross. The 1930’s
were the great days of student agitation
over Fascism, Spain, War and Peace —■
the time of, say, Cyril Pearl or Alwyn
Lee. The post war 1940's were the great
days of the fight for the Brave New
Socialist World and of Margaret St.
demonstrations against Dutch imperialism
—the time of say lan Turner or Dick
Klugman.
Then came what? According to the
legend what followed was The Stagnant
Fifties, the era of the Cautious Young
Men. There were no great demonstrations
then, no new movements. Membership
of the political clubs began to fall
sharply, even though total student num-
bers in the universities were rising
rapidly. Throughout Asia and Africa
students may have helped make or break
Governments but in Australia there was
only apathy. In 1955 the “Sydney Morn-
ing Herald” bemoaned the passing of
“unpopular or politically unconventional
thinking among students.” In 1957 the
Adelaide “News” asked: “What has hap-
pened to our Angry Young Men?” The
student Press was more outspoken. In
1952 “Melbourne University Magazine”
said: “In the past two years the only
resemblance to a ’hotbed’ was afforded
by the burning of Wilson Hall. The only
discussion, the only disputation, the only
excitement arose out of the consideration
of this problem: what to do about pro-
viding the University with a new hall.
Religion, Politics, Art have made no re-
cent ripple on our consciousness.” In
1958 “Westerly” in Perth said: “Seldom
has university life seemed so lifeless, so
self-centred, so smug.” In 1959 “Ade-
laide University Magazine” complained
students suffer from a “sheer lack of guts.”
There was no shortage of explana-
tions. Some blamed the prosperity of the
country (but do you have to be hungry
to have guts?), some blamed the increas-
ing bureaucracy in University life (but
in the other periods this has provoked
student agitation), some blamed the
snooping of security agents on students
(but didn’t identify any), some blamed
the advent of the lower economic classes
to universities, pointing out that 80 per
cent, of full-time students are subsidised
(but only neo-Marxists are capable of
such snobbery. Does being poor mean
you are incapable of having ideals?)
Another theory and a more plausible
one runs like this: For generations the
initiative in student idealism had been
taken—usually with complete honesty
and sincerity—by fellow-travellers of the
Communist Party. In the 1930’5, for
example, there was little obvious reason
for tension between the Communists and
the student movement. They seemed to
share a common hostility to Hitlerism.
By the 1940’s in Melbourne, the great
centre of Australian student life, this
trend went so far that it was the Com-
munist Party itself and not the fellow-
travellers which had the initiative. (It is
not necessary to picture Communist
thugs exploiting naive students: many of
the Communist leaders were themselves
genuine idealists—though they have all
since left the Communist Party). After
the war students from the Communist
and democratic countries formed the
International Union of Students to work
together and Australians joined with non-
student youth in the World Federation
of Democratic Youth. Continuing their
traditional campaigns against imperialism
and war they saw the Communist Party
as a reasonable ally. (Sydney, under the
late Professor John Anderson's influence
was a partial exception to this).
By 1948, however, the honeymoon was
over. It had become clear that Com-
munism was the worst form of slavery
and imperialism in history, worse even
than Hitlerism, and it was becoming as
difficult for a student with any tincture
of idealism even to discuss anything with
a Communist as it had been with a Nazi.
By 1948 the International Union of
Students had been turned into an agency
of Moscow, and the Communists were
using the Labor Clubs as platforms on
which to justify every expansion of Soviet
slavery in Europe. Finally, throughout


the country, the Labor Clubs split and
ALP Clubs were formed, leaving the old
Labor Clubs to the Communists. Aus-
tralian students withdrew from Moscow’s
International Union of Students and
joined the democratic International
Students Council (just as the democratic
youth generally withdrew from Moscow’s
World Federation of Democratic Youth
to form the World Assembly of Y’outh).
But then what? Student movements had
ceased to be Communist dupes. They
now had a clear idea of where fellow-
travelling idealism led. But what ideals
did they have to offer instead? They cer-
tainly got no lead from university lec-
turers: some of them were as confused
as they were; some of them, being too
old to be receptive to new ideas, remained
fellow-travellers; some, excited by the
apparent might of Red China even be-
came fellow-travellers of a new type. Nor
did they get any leadership from the
Labor Party which, led by Dr Evatt, was
going deeper into the very opposite direc-
tion that the students had taken. Nor did
any of the traditional clubs appeal to
them. The students were left alone. If
the only ideals were hotted-up cliches
from the 1930’5, they would rather have
none. That is the clue to the 1950’5. It
was not the Stagnant Generation, but a
Suspicious Generation, a Browned-off
Generation.
Even so it was not quite as bad as it
seemed. In undramatic ways a number
of things were happening. Firstly the
Asian students arrived in Australian uni-
versities—over 2000 of them enrolled
in 1959 or 4.3 per cent, of enrolments —
and secondly, on a scale undreamt of
among earlier generations, Australian
students began travelling overseas as
delegates for some student body or other
and participating in international con-
gresses. Throughout the 1950’s the
Volunteer Graduate Scheme, a sort of
forerunner of President Kennedy’s Peace
Corps, was developing and students being
sent off to work in Asia. At any given
moment now Australian student repre-
sentatives will be found in Japan or
Finland, Russia, Africa or South
America.
Finding a cause
inevitable result of all this was not
A only an increasing knowledge of
international events but an increasing
sophistication in politics. This had yet to
take a definite political form. A few
rumblings of vague, free-floating discon-
tent showed themselves in the eagerness
with which non-political causes were
espoused—in a demonstration over lack
of traffic lights at Sydney University or
over low pay to teacher trainees—inci-
dents similar to the recent riot at the
University of NSW over renting the
Union Hall to the ABC at a lower rate
than that charged to students. But the
discontent found no political expression
and had little to do with the political
clubs.
Then came Federal Government’s near-
support for South African apartheid and
the Malayan divers case, and suddenly in
the last year, after ten years feeling their
way, the new trends gelled. Almost over-
night Australian students—or at least an
elite among them—emerged from the
era of suspicion and returned to
poiltics. They had found a cause. Sum-
marised briefly it is an attack on one of
the main threats to democracy: racialism.
In Australia this means an attack on the
White Australia Policy. But it is an
attack with a difference—since it involves
no diminution whatsoever in student
hostility to the other great threat—Com-
munism. Student life in 1960’s will not
be at all like the 1930'5.
The most dramatic illustration of the
new trend was seen in Melbourne during
the last Federal election campaigns when
politicians to their astonishment found
themselves up against a movement calling
itself Student Action. Formed mainly by
students from Melbourne and Monash
universities, it transcended the tradit-
ional club loyalties and recruited sup-
porters from all of them (Liberal, ALP,
SCM, Newman) —all except the Com-
munist Labor Club. It even involved
many of the students who at any time or
place are uninterested in politics: at one
meeting at Monash University all students
turned up. The movement's intention
was to force politicians to answer quest-
ions about Australian racialism; its pro-
gramme was the abolition of the White
Australia Policy and the substitution of a
policy recruiting Asian migrants accord-
ing to their educational and health stan-
dards. Color as a criterion was to go.
Brilliantly organised (during the exam-
ination period) by the late Bill Thomas,
Peter Samuel, John Johnson, Peter
Fisher, Rodney Allen, John Patterson
and John King, it took every step to
ensure that its agitation was “moderate”:
police permission was sought and ob-
tained for all demonstrations, and no
demonstrations were allowed inside the
halls while election speeches were being
delivered. Typical were the instructions
issued to members for Mr Menzies’
speech at Kew: “Demonstrators are
asked to assemble from 7.30 p.m. on the
lawns outside the main entrance to the
Kew Town Hall. The rallying point will
be on the far side of the lawns, away
from the doors. The Prime Minister will
open his election campaign at 8.0 p.m.
We must be assembled and moved into
position before this time. The demon-
stration will be outside the meeting and
will be orderly. There will be no dis-
ruption inside the meeting. A large
crowd is essential and members are
urged to bring as many friends as pos-
sible. Banners are provided.”
Breaking the press barrier
/\ne of its problems was to get publicity.
For years the Press has been willing
to publicise student pranks, however
idiotic; it has even given good publicity to
demonstrations by teacher-trainees for
higher pay. But a serious demonstration
on political issues, particularly the White
Australia Policy, was another matter. The
Press knew as little about student feel-
ing as did most university lecturers and
most politicians. So at first the student
agitations were ignored. A public meet-
ing, for example, of 1000 students on
the South African question followed by
a march down-town by 400 was never
mentioned by the Melbourne papers
while a traditional fatuous prank by 100
students sitting on a mattress in Myers
Department store made the front page.
Finally after a mass welcome of the
tw'o Malayan divers to Melbourne w'as
ignored by the Press, it became clear
that special measures were needed to get
publicity. It was then that they went in
for painting their faces black, painting
crazy banners (such as “Watch that Tan.
They May Deport You” or “White Aus-
tralia Policy Stinks”) and singing anti
White Australia songs (such as this one
sung to the tune of “Michael, row the
boat ashore”):
“Old Bob Menzies he ought to
know, White Australia,
That the divers, they can stay, no
more White Australia.
Arthur Calwell he ought to say,
White Australia,
That the divers, they can stay, no
more White Australia.
The RSL is a body mighty . . .
They say keep Australia whitey
Keep us white says RSL . . .
Student Action says to Hell”.
In this way they broke the Press and


TV barrier and even made the overseas
Press. If people complained they were
able to reply: We didn’t make the rules,
they were forced on us. But they were
still generally misunderstood. First they
were treated as hooligans by most
people except the police who reported
they were always well-behaved. Then
they were dismissed as Communists,
though Communists were excluded from
their movement and one of their demands
was that Australia take in Asian refugees
from Communist terror.
In the end they did get their message
over. They pinned Mr Calwell down on
one of his racialist circulars and they
provoked Mr A. R. Downer to various
remarks such as “I'd rather have a migra-
tion office in Edinburgh than in Kua'a
Lumpur”—remarks which since Malaya
is a more useful ally to Australia, after
all, than Scotland he no doubt later re-
gretted. But their main success was in
showing what can be done: the move-
ment soon spread to all other States
where students were waiting for a lead
and are fed up with the traditional
clubs. Student Action can now turn its
forces to any issue (at the moment it is
preparing material on Australia’s educa-
tion crisis) and more or less at a
moment’s notice arrange demonstrations
in any city. It is the model for the
1960’5.
That this movement began in Mel-
bourne is not surprising. Melbourne
University is the liveliest Australian
university today and its liveliness is due
more to its students than to its staff. Its
ALP Club is the most active of its
political clubs. It has about 250 mem-
bers, runs three or four lunch time lec-
tures a week, conducts seminars on trade
unions, economic policy, education, dis-
armament. It also runs weekend schools.
It is active in the Fabian Society, the
Council for Nuclear Disarmament (which
under its influence has adopted a Gait-
skell-ite anti-unilateralist line), in the
Labor Party (where it is one of the most
active of the groups concerned to under-
mine the fellow-travelling junta which
now runs the Victorian Labor Party), in
the Rationalist Society (which under their
influence runs an anti-communist line
offensive to the down-town fellow-travel-
ling Rationalists). It is also active in the
New Guinea Society, the Malayan
Students Club, and in various magazines
such as “Dissent,” “Prospect” and
“Farrago” (the students’ paper). It has
also made useful links with the Socialist
International and the Australian Associa-
tion for Cultural Freedom (most of
whose members these days are Labor
supporters). One of its members, John
Patterson, is President of the Students
Representative Council. A couple of
weeks ago it sent Leon Glezer as an
observer to the Communist World As-
sembly of Youth conference in Helsinki
with instructions to report details of
Communist manipulation of youth move-
ments.
A curiosity of the situation is that
some of the ALP club’s most active critics
include leftist staff members who seem to
have stopped thinking in the 1930’s and
find it somehow repugnant that a mili-
tantly idealist youth group should detest
the Communist Party. This hostility
between the staff and students has come
to a head over various articles in
“Farrago”, edited this year by Patrick
McCaughey, which have attacked the
administration of various university de-
partments. In their attempt to stop these
articles one finds fellow - travelling
lecturers appealing for help to an
extremely conservative administration
and even to conservative students a
symbol of the current chasm between
staff and active students.
At a recent annual general meeting
of the Students’ Representative Council
a motion was moved by conservative
students to censure the editor and make
him ineligible for re-election. The
mover claimed “Farrago” catered ex-
clusively for the “pseudo-intelligentsia”.
(“Farrago” claimed he had difficulty in
pronouncing the word; “Farrago” how-
ever obviously had difficulty in spelling
it). Speaking for engineers he said “the
present feeling is that engineers are sex-
crazed and only want smut in 'Farrago’.
We enjoy most cultural things as well
as the next bloke” —but “Farrago” was
over-cultural. Knowing he was pro-
ducing one of the best student papers
for many years, editor McCaughey
claimed a student paper should cover
all political and academic issues, not
only sporting events and Miss University
quests. The motion was lost by 43 votes
to 90.
Melbourne University Liberal Club has
also been revitalised in the last year after
a long period in the doldrums. Its Presi-
dent John King is out of sympathy with
the official Liberal line—he was active
in Student Action—and the Club
welcomes people like W. C. Wentworth
and Sir Wilfred Kent Hughes as speakers.
It runs study groups on New Guinea, the
White Australia Policy, Capital Punish-
ment (still in force in Victoria), Censor-
ship, and Liberty. It is the only student
club that is a serious rival to the ALP
Club.
The Communist Labor Club is com-
pletely without influence and its mem-
bers are mainly the children of Com-
munists —obedient products of authori-
tarian homes that do not tolerate rebell-
ion. The DLP has disintegrated since its
founders, Leo Mahoney and K. Walsh,
attacked Mr Santamaria’s influence in
the DLP two years ago, after which they
were expelled from the Party.
But if Melbourne is the liveliest student
centre a similar story is to be told of all
universities, though in some cases, such
as Perth, the Liberal Club is more active
than the ALP Club. Almost everywhere
there are newly formed Student Action
branches and in all cases hostility to
Australian racialism has been the spark
that set them off. Even in Brisbane,
perhaps the most conservative Austra-
lian university, Student Action recently
picketed the Leichhardt Hotel for an hour
in protest against the publican’s refusal
to give three colored students a drink.
At the latest meeting of the Australian
University Liberal Federation, agree-
ment was reached that the White Aus-
tralia Policy should be modified. In
Sydney a recent issue of “Honi Soit”
carried a special Asian supplement.
“The Sydney Slanderer”
FFhe Sydney revival of politics dates
A from a crowded meeting held on the
University front lawn over South African
apartheid. It continued so long and
raised so much noise that the nearby
2 p.m. lectures had to be cancelled. Since
then events have followed a similar but
less sensational pattern to Melbourne
with money being collected for Chinese
refugees, and a petition on White Aus-
tralia being circulated. Since then, too,
the Students’ Representative Council has


Pride of Place
The finest wines have always been
associated with specific places. No
wine is more specific about its origin
than Coonawarra Estate* Claret with
its back-label showing exactly where
it comes from.
*“ Estate” (as the word “Chateau” in
France) is used to distinguish this claret
as being the genuine product of the
winegrowers own vineyard.
COONAWARRA ESTATE
CLARET
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors:
S. Wynn & Co. Ply. Ltd.
CION
abandoned its traditional policy that the
National Union of Australian University
Students should keep out of all political
issues. After years of strict avoidance
of all political questions the National
Union has now decided to take a
political stand on all questions involving
human rights. It decided to hold a
referendum among students on the desir-
ability of abolishing the White Aus-
tralia Policy and publicly protested at
the attempted exclusion of aboriginal
children from the school in Elliott, NT
(to which the people of Elliott replied
with a cryptic telegram: “Don’t panic.
Remember Pearl Harbour”).
This last move is a triumph for Peter
Wilenski, one of the most outstanding of
student leaders in Sydney. His activities
also represent how the new politics com-
bine both anti-racialism and anti-Com-
munism. Though active at all levels
of student politics and in 1960 he
was elected for a two-year term to
the Executive of the World As-
sembly of Youth (which split in 1950
from Moscow's World Federation of
Democratic Youth) —and an active cam-
paigner against racialism (he is an advo-
cate of sending an Australian Youth
Corps to Asia), he has also had the honor
of being denounced in a Moscow paper
as “The Sydney Slanderer”. In 1960 a
delegation of Soviet youth toured Aus-
tralia and one of their duties was to con-
tact Communist, Leftist and some of the
more naive Christian groups in the hope
of getting their support for a new Soviet
propaganda agency, World Youth
Forum. In this they partly succeeded. At
least they claimed to have won support
from leaders of Christian youth in Ade-
laide, the youth committee of the Mari-
time Transport Workers, various Com-
munist sports organisations and of course,
the Eureka Youth League, Mr Thomas
Uren MHR, and Mr W. M. Rigby MLA.
Back in Moscow the World Youth Forum
then issued invitations to youth bodies all
over the world including the National
Union of Australian University Students,
inviting them to join in the Forum. Petei
Wilenski, as President of the Sydney Uni-
versity Students’ Representative Council
wrote refusing to join. He gave several
reasons—the Forum's “blatant misrepre-
sentation” in claiming several countries
were officially represented when they
were in fact “represented” by unrepresen-
tative Communist groups, and that vari-
ous student organisations such as the UK
National Union of Students supported
Forum when in fact they had attacked
it; the Forum's refusal to allow discus-
sions of Hungary and Tibet on its agenda:
Forum’s general role as a world-wide
Soviet propaganda agency. Soon after,
V. Kuzmin, who had led the Soviet dele-
gation to Australia, replied to Wilenski
in an article in “Komsomolskaya Pravda”
headed “The Sydney Slanderer” com-
plaining Wilenski's letter filled him with
“disgust and repugnance” but not bother-
ing to answer the criticisms.
The future pattern
Tt would be wrong to imply that the de-
fence of democracy against racialism
and Communism are the only student
preoccupations. In Hobart it is hard to
get them to look beyond the Orr case; in
the University of NSW, hard to get
them to go beyorid the shortcomings
of their own university. This second
university is one where the 1950’s rule
of “apathy” still applies—a state of affairs
encouraged by the University rule against
clubs linked with outside bodies. The
main organ of protest there is not any of
the clubs but the students’ paper
“Tharunka”. Its basic theme under such
editors as lan Davison, Richard Neville,
and Bob Walker, is criticism of the Uni-
versity administration. Last year it pub-
lished a special issue calling for the Vice-
Chancellor's resignation and for a Royal
Commission into its university. The
Director of Student Publications decided
to ban the issue in order to stop it get-
ting publicity—a measure which naturally
earned it colossal publicity in the Syd-
ney papers, particularly since students
were able to distribute 1000 copies of
the banned issue. After that “Tharunka’s”
attacks on other aspects of University
administration were so heavily censored
by its printers, John Fairfax & Co. that
the editors recently changed their
printers.
Two other universities have also had
censorship problems recently Sydney
when the editors of “Honi Soil”,
R. Walsh and P. Grose, were sacked for
“flippancy” but later reinstated, where-
upon they resigned (the attempt to cen-
sure the editor of Melbourne’s “Farrago”
was based on its over-earnestness); and
Brisbane, where the editor of the “Free-
thinker”, H. McQueen, was suspended
for publishing a conventional attack on
conventional sexual morality. (At a pre-
liminary inquiry one professor is alleged
to have screamed at McQueen; “Get out!
Get out!”) But these two cases are
untypical throwbacks of the 1930 s rather
than characteristic of new trends.
It would also be wrong to assume that
the new trend as shown in Student Action
has complete support from students.
Some of the clubs, particularly the Liberal
dubs which on principle oppose “mass
movements” and believe all action should
be channelled into established machinery,
oppose Student Action. It would also be
a mistake to assume that the new mili-
tancy is characteristic of all students:
numerically most students, now as
always, remain uninterested in politics
though the enthusiasm of the activists is
seeping through. Peter Wilenski who
spent most of his undergraduate life work-
ing through the established machinery has
remarked that if he had his time over he
would pursue the Student Action pattern
of cutting through the clubs and appeal-
ing directly to the students. This seems
to be the wave of the future. The 1960 s
will not be like the 19505.


OUT AND ABOUT
THE TWO FACES
OF DEDICATION
Hayes Gordon, Peter Summerton ...
and Theatre
By JAN SMITH
The Ensemble’s brochure is glossy,
the approach sleek, casual. Get
with it. Turn up in sables or sack-
cloth, drink coffee on the harborside
terrace, and see theatre in three dimen-
sions. Intimate, exciting, dynamic.
So the social elite, the intellectuals, the
tourists roll down to the water’s edge at
Milson’s Point, Sydney, to see theatre-in-
the-round. Murder, rape, starvation,
drunken remorse or Restoration play.
You name it, the Ensemble’s got it and
never more than five rows away. In the
last five years they’ve covered nearly
every human crisis except childbirth.
At interval the audience teeter to the
balcony, juggling their coffee, watching
for knotholes in the floor, and ex-
periencing various degrees of involve-
ment from spiritual turmoil to suburban
outrage.
No one ever rests at the Ensemble.
Any night of the week, in the foyer,
actors and actresses are all about you,
selling programmes, ushering, fixing
coffee, but unless you’re a regular you’d
never know. There is no silent thrill
of recognition, no uneasy suspicion that
you’ve seen this face behind a packet of
breakfast food in a TV ad. Everyone at
the Ensemble is far too absorbed. To
make an overture, especially on a first
night, would be like interrupting a priest
at communion.
If the Ensemble company (14-strong,
plus casuals) are acolytes, then the high
priest logically should be Hayes Gordon,
a 43-year-old American actor-turned-
producer who in five years has raised
the Ensemble from an experimental
walk-up firetrap in North Sydney to a
gimmick-par-excellence by the sea.
The success story of the tumbledown
boatshed - cum - warehouse at Milson’s
Point, converted by sweat, love and
overdraft into a thriving theatre is
familiar.
Hayes himself has become something
of a legend around Sydney. Words like
dynamic, forceful, egotistical, even tyr-
annical, are tossed around. Even the old
cliche about eskimos and refrigerators
gets an airing. But you want to find out
for yourself. So you walk upstairs and
find, in a cramped office overlooking
Careening Cove, a big, dark, handsome
man with horn-rimmed glasses. There are
cans of Metrecal, bills, and a framed
picture of his 18-year-old daughter,
Katie, on the desk.
He looks human enough, so you go
in feet first, and find that Gordon
thinks the eskimo bit something of a
compliment. But there’s a big difference
really. “I’m not creating any false
demand,” he said. “I’m simply selling
people what they need. At the Ensemble
we treat an audience like people. They
get a gimmick, sure —the off-beat decor,
the art shows, the free programme and
the cheap coffee but they get some-
thing more.”
The something more, the hard centre
in the tinsel wrapping, is vicarious par-
ticipation. Everyone, says Hayes, likes
to see their submerged nine-tenths, the
secret fears and longings hidden within
them.
“Theatre is a two way thing,” Gordon
says. “There is no room for selfishness,
which is why so many amateur theatres
fail. There’s no use telling people things
just because you—as an actor, producer
or playwright—want to get it off your
chest. You have to make sure your
audience wants to listen.”
In terms of hard cash, the eskimo
theory hardly holds water, and it is
significant that the Ensemble’s first
“popular” success was “The Drunkard”,
a vintage melodrama where the audience
were given free popcorn to hurl at the
mustachioed villain.
The only play that wasn’t an un-
qualified success was “Miss Lonely-
hearts” a newspaperman whose de-
motion to writing a column for the love-
lorn involves him in other people’s prob-
lems to the point where he is shot by a
jeolous husband. Why? Hayes thinks
the play was too confronting, the hero
too identifiable. “People don’t like to be
shouted at,” he said. “You’ve got to let
them discover things for themselves.”
Subsequent productions, like “The
Buffalo Skinner”, “Five Finger Exercise”
and “Billy Liar”, with a groping-youth-
versus - cruel - environment theme, have
done very well.
Everything seems rosy at the En-
semble (they maintain not only a public
relations man but a promotional adviser),
but Gordon is quick to dispel the
impression that he’s sitting on a gold
mine, and will whip out his bank balance
to prove it. Lecturing to drama students
provides the bread and butter, but there’s
nothing left over for fruit on the side-
board.
He drives a practical combi-van
with three dogs you have to be utilitarian
- lives in an unpretentious flat at
Neutral Bay, and is no longer married.
What made Gordon take the unprofit-
able plunge out of musical comedy into
production? Here Gordon starts to
hedge. People won’t understand, will
misinterpret him. But basically, well, he
likes to be free.
“I grew up in Boston,” he said. “Not
the culture and tea-sipping Boston you
see on television. In the slums. So I
realised it’s no good building up a
personal security in an insecure world.
Someone’s going to smash your windows.


We’re our brother’s keeper whether we
like it or not.”
So Hayes finds his freedom and
security in the theatre, giving people
what they need, the vicarious participa-
tion and the dawning self-recognition
which leads, he feels, to true apprecia-
tion of the theatre.
Australian theatre? His favorite play
is Patrick White’s “Season at Sarsparilla”,
not yet publicly performed. Of others,
he likes “The Shifting Heart” best
“I’m always being taken up on this one”
—but when pressed for reasons he re-
sorts to counter attack.
How did he feel about this two-way
theatre theory back in his matinee idol
days, when he played the leads in Aus-
tralian productions of “Kiss Me Kate”
and “Kismet”? There was no conflict.
“You’re still giving people what they
want, only musicals are a softer sell,”
he said.
Red plush extravaganza
are pictures outside in a glass
A case, otherwise you might easily
walk into the PMG’s North Sydney
depot by mistake. Between a piano
tuner's and a fish shop, you walk down
a tiled ramp that leads surprisingly to
the full red plush extravaganza of the
traditional theatre foyer. A little ragged
at the edges, perhaps, but then serious
theatre like Sydney’s Independent have
always had a hard trot.
There is an ornamental birdbath of
camellias, a scrim of tobacco smoke (no
harbor breezes here) and vintage
triumphants beaming from the walls
above affectionate, illegible signatures.
No one ever turns up in blue jeans,
and the first night coffee, though excel-
lent, is hardly free. Neither are the pro-
grammes. You always see someone you
know, and conversation flows in shop-
worn channels. There are no extremist
posters, no paintings, nothing to district
from the sober dignity of the men and
the cocktail gaiety of the women.
Yet there is dedication at the Indepen-
dent too, and in the tiny office at the
head of the burgundy staircase, associate
producer Peter Summerton will talk
readily, if haltingly, about the demands
theatre makes on everyone connected
with it.
Summerton joined the Independent in
1960 as a second producer to Doris
Fitton, after seven years in Western
Australia as resident producer at the
National Theatre in Perth where he pro-
duced “The Innocents”, “Come Back,
Little Sheba”, and the musical “And So
To Bed”. His first Independent play
was Arthur Miller’s “A View From The
Bridge” (one of the longest running),
followed by “Inherit The Wind”,
“Hunger of A Girl”, “The Crucible”
and “The Women”.
Summerton is a chunky 33, with an
engaging crooked grin, but there is a
certain shyness that deters you from the
too-brutal question. He is very intense,
but it is a quiet, groping sincerity. He
is anxious that he should say the right
word, that you should understand the
exact sense.
Summerton was born in Adelaide, but
the family a large one moved to
Sydney when he was quite young. His
elder brothers and sisters are mostly
musical. One of his brothers is a priest.
“The theatre is entertainment for
everybody”, he says “Expression for
everybody. Not just a luxury for the
select few. It is a means of communica-
tion that transcends self-consciousness, a
stimulus that carries us up and above
day-to-day existence. In the theatre it
is humanity that counts.
“Presenting a play is like throwing a
pebble into still water. The excitement,
the message, the feeling, go out in an
ever widening circle. They touch every-
one.”
Summerton’s biggest Sydney produc-
tion outside the Independent was the
lona Passion Play at the Showground
last Easter. He has a deep interest in
religious plays, going back to his child-
hood when his trumpeter father played
church music.
What does the theatre demand of
Summerton personally? “It demands
giving, without any thought of reward,”
he said. “In giving you receive a thanks
and appreciation that is the only true
return.”
Naturally he does get paid, more than
Hayes allows himself, but still a long
way short of opulence. Opulence, how-
ever, is not what Summerton is looking
for. He lives a quiet life with his sister
in Sydney’s western suburbs, travels by
public transport.
Summerton detests the highbrow in
theatre. He usually produces meaty
dramas or savory comedies, and the In-
dependent’s two recent lonescos and the
Pinter were done by other producers.
In the meantime, the show must go
on, and if life isn’t exactly wonderful
for the Independent, last month’s hit
will usually finance next month’s miss.
“The Women”, Clare Booth Luce’s vin-
tage send-up of American high society,
looms large on the credit side of the In-
dependent’s ledger.
Summerton’s latest production, “The
Grotto”, was the first time he has been
able to transform a play by a virtually
unknown author, Scots-born Robert
Wales, into living, polished theatre. He
feels “The Grotto” is a play that trans-
cends national boundaries. The setting
is Woolloomooloo, the characters mainly
Italian fisherfolk, but the locale is
secondary to the play’s theme of age-
old conflict between materialism and
idealism.
“Immediately I read the script 1 liked
the people. The setting could have been
anywhere. I don’t really like local plays.”
He feels that “The Grotto’s” central
character, Maltese migrant Danny, is
remarkable also because he is the first
attempt in Australian drama at a por-
trayal of the Fool, on the lines of the
Fool in “Lear” and Dostoievsky’s Prince
Muishkin.
Going in cold
/Getting down to brass tacks, “The
Grotto” has had a somewhat patchy
run, but no one at the Independent has
any regrets. It was an Australian play, so
people were bound to be critical. “I’m
not blaming the critics or the first-night-
ers or anyone in particular,” Summer-
ton said. “It’s just a general attitude.
People will go to see an English or
American play because it did well in
London or on Broadway. Here we have
to go in cold.”
Summerton thinks that theatre in
Australia is still not part of our culture,
but that the time is coming. It will be
helped, he feels, when out-of-town
centres are built-up where plays can
be tried out, worked over, and possibly
re-written, before they are unleashed on
the public in a capital city.
“This way you can get the feel of a
play and the feel of the audience
before you stake everything on a big pro-
duction that’s polished to the ninth de-
gree,” he said.
Granted tryouts in, say, Newcastle or
Armidale would iron many production
kinks, the problem of casting still re-
mains. Summerton believes television
has been a big help here, in that it has
killed for all time the notion of a per-
former as something rich and strange
beyond mortal ken.
Summerton maintains that the cast-
ing of not one but two “fashionable”
performers in “The Grotto” was purely
coincidental. It seems unlikely that any
admirers of ex-ABC presentation an-
nouncer, Tanya Halesworth, would be
lured away from the television sets by
the prospect of their darling as an elderly
Italian crone with one leg and a pre-
dilection for spitting. Nor is it easy to see
Patsy Ann Noble’s rock ’n’ roll fans
invading the Independent to watch her
in a straight dramatic role.
The old cry of “not understood” is
common not only to Hayes Gordon and
Peter Summerton. In theatre, trying to
please everyone often pleases no one.
And if the most damning thing of all
is to mean well, then Australia’s theatres,
big or little, Pirandello or Pinter, will
keep at it, and the devil take damna-
tion.


I AM A (TV)
CAMERA
Robin Day: truculence is his trademark
By PATRICIA ROLFE
When the Prime Minister, Mr
Menzies, was in Britain on his
Common Market barnstorming
trip, he was interviewed by Robin Day
for BBC television. Mr Day is now in
Australia to find out what the rest of
Australia thinks about the Common
Market. His findings, together with the
views of New Zealand and Canada, will
be presented in an hour-long special
programme. In Australia Mr Day is
working with an ABC unit and his pro-
gramme may be shown here later.
Mr Day is spending about a fortnight
in Australia, but is confining himself
strictly to the Common Market issue.
He wasn't planning a series on Australia,
such as Dan Farson did? “No, not a
series. Just the Common Market issue.
And it will certainly be nothing like
Dan Farson,” Mr Day said firmly.
Mr Day is visiting Sydney, Canberra,
Melbourne, the fruit-growing district of
Mildura and perhaps a few other places.
He can give few details of people he has
talked to, because for technical or other
reasons some of the best-known names
and faces may be edited out of the
programme. However, he does want to
find out what the average Australian
thinks about the Market. “I don’t want
to talk only to politicians and econo-
mists,” he said. “I want to find out what
the man in the street thinks.”
This is the longest trip, in mileage, which
Mr Day has undertaken for his job, but
he was six weeks in America recently,
so it is not the longest in point of time.
Mr Day is used to going far afield and
spending the BBC’s money for his news.
He is one of the brave band who in the
past few years has smashed the ancient
image of BBC news as desiccated dis-
dain. This achievement might have rob-
bed the amateur impersonator of one of
his staple items—an imitation of a BBC
commentator but has given a new
breadth and immediacy to TV.
Mr Day in his book “Television: A
Personal Report” (reviewed by Mr
Robert Raymond in The Bulletin of
March 24, 1962), set down the steps by
which he rose in a few years from brief-
less barrister to a man whose name is a
household word in Britain because he
talks on equal terms with people whose
names are household words—Macmillan,
Nasser, Kennedy, Adenauer.
However, if Mr Robin Day had to
depend on interviewing people like Mr
Robin Day, he would probably still be
a briefless barrister. Mr Day does not
consider himself a TV personality. He
does not regard his own views as impor-
tant. He will not readily commit him-
self on anything except his own job. He
certainly does not want anyone to know
what he personally thinks of the idea of
Britain joining the Common Market.
“The average person from reading a
Press report has no idea how an inter-
view is conducted,” he said. “He merely
sees what the journalist decides to put
down. However, with TV he learns just
what goes on at an interview. This
seems to fascinate him.
“But I don't do anything different from
a Press reporter at an interview. I merely
ask the question which I think should
be answered. I don’t engage in debate.”
Mr Day is genuinely astonished that
anyone would assume from his inter-
view with Mr Menzies, which was repro-
duced in full in Australian newspapers
and shown on the ABC’s programme
“Four Corners,” that he supported a
different view from the Prime Minister.
“Anyone who would decide that would
simply be lacking in intelligence,” he
said.
A lthough Mr Day’s refrain is that he
is just a journalist, he does not believe
that the training which a F’ress reporter
normally goes through is necessary for
a TV man. “People like Ed Murrow,
who’s the best of the lot, have never been
in newspapers and have never trained as
journalists,” he said. “When we began
with Independent Television News there
was a whole bunch of us from different
fields—radio, the Bar, films and so on.
We didn't quite know what we wanted or
how to get it, so we simply learnt on the
job.”
However, Mr Day does not believe
that TV news will supersede newspapers.
“TV simply adds a dimension,” he said.
“It is a stimulant. When the average
person sees someone like Castro or
Lumumba on television, he gets a much
clearer idea about the man than he would
from reading about him. Then, perhaps,
he will read more about him. Television
can never take the place of newspapers
in interpretation of news and in provid-
ing the atmosphere and background
which the camera often misses.”
Mr Day stood, unsuccessfully, as a
Liberal candidate for the last British
elections, but he says that his frequent
absences from London made it impossible
to follow the political scene closely. Had
the recent Cabinet sackings taken the
British people by surprise? “They took
everyone by surprise, including the people
who lost their jobs,” Mr Day said. “No,”
he added, “I don't think it had anything
to do with the Common Market. 1 think
it was only to get a new image for the
Conservatives within the country, to pull
the party up again.”
IVIr Day seemec surprised at the idea
that an Australian wouldn’t have to
be an ardent republican to regard Mr
Menzies’s phrase “one of the Queen’s
men” as, perhaps, not quite of our times.
“But wouldn’t you call yourself one of the
Queen’s women?” he demanded. “Don't
you believe in the Commonwealth? Are
you a republican? Didn’t more people
than were expected see the Queen when
she was here last? What abouf Suez?
Don't you think the British were worrying
about the Commonwealth then? Don’t
you think they were afraid that the Com-
monwealth would be wrecked? What
about the Commonwealth Prime
Ministers’ meeting in London? Don’t you
think that means something?”
Although truculence has become Mr
Day’s trademark, it would be altogether
too wearing for him to act the permanent
bear with a sore head. True, he did turn
aside to rail at two waiters who said we
would have to wait five minutes, until
the bar was cleared of visitors, for a
drink. “Why should my guest have to
wait five minutes for a drink?” Mr Day
demanded (if his guest were a little more
sensitive, she might have felt this estab-
lished her as the No. 1 lush of Macleay
Street). “These ridiculous drinking laws.
If I don’t get service I’ll have to send for
the manager.” And true, Mr Day was
very agitated about the air conditioning
in the Chevron Hilton. “The place is
hermetically sealed,” he said. “Surely one
of man’s basic rights is fresh air?” But
apart from one or two things like this,
Mr Day couldn’t have been more
charming.


New York Newsletter
JACK KENNEDYS FADING IMAGE
"i miss Ike, Hell, I even miss Harry!"
From GEORGE McGANN
UYkjr short months ago youngish,
handsome, vital John F. Kennedy
perched higher on the Gallop Poll than
any president of modern times. After a
year or more in office and despite
such mistakes as the Cuban invasion
fiasco the new Democratic President
had gained the approbation and admira-
tion of nearly 80 per cent, of his fellow
citizens. Even Ike, who could do no
wrong in the eyes of his admirers, had
never scored that high.
Since then President Kennedy has lost
so much prestige that some political
pundits are seriously questioning his
ability to win re-election in 1964. It is
rare for a president to fail at the polls
after a single term, but the Republicans
find encouragement for optimism not
only in the recent dramatic change of
political climate but in the recollection
that Kennedy won the White House by
the narrowest of margins which could be
erased by the shift of a very few thou-
sand votes next time.
The completely unexpected change in
direction of the political wind in Wash-
ington has resulted from a series of
events which began with a late after-
noon visit by Roger Blough, head of
the powerful United States Steel Cor-
poration, to the White House last April.
Blough, a quiet-spoken Wall Street
lawyer who had just concluded an agree-
ment with the Steel Workers’ Union
averting a major strike in that critical
industry, informed the President that
U.S. Steel was raising its prices six
dollars a ton.
The President reacted as if Blough
had struck him across the face. White
with anger, Kennedy accused Blough of
violating the spirit of the Union agree-
ment and, more important, exposing the
country to another inflationary spiral of
prices and wages. He immediately
mobilised the vast power of the Presi-
dency to force Blough to back down.
The President’s display of naked
strength, including a threat to investigate
the tax reports of the steel companies
and the despatching of FBI agents to
reporters’ rooms thoroughly frightened
the leaders of big business.
These men, Republicans all, viewed
the consequent capitulation by Blough
and the other steel companies, who were
forced to rescind their prices rise, not so
much as a tremendous victory for Ken-
nedy as a distinct threat to the entire
business community. They established
Kennedy in the same categorie with
Franklin D. Roosevelt, “that man in the
White House”, as an enemy of the free
enterprise system.
Kennedy’s now celebrated remark to a
caller that “my father told me all
businessmen were sons of bitches,” did
not serve to alleviate their hostility.
The stock market, which had already
begun to fall from its high peaks before
Blough’s fateful call at the White House,
broke sharply with the capitulation of the
steel tycoons and has continued to go
down, down and down ever since. In
succeeding months, an alarming bear
market has developed and in its down-
ward spiral has wiped out hundreds of
millions of dollars’ worth of share values,
destroyed the paper profits of thousands
of small investors and cut off the divi-
dend payments which many people had
come to regard as steady sources of
income. With taxicab drivers, waiters
and other low-income people “playing the
market” in unprecedented numbers, the
colhpse in Wall Street struck home with
a shock unmatched since the crash of
1929.
At a cocktail gathering the other day
I heard a wife trying to defend the Presi-
dent against a hostile ring of his critics.
Her husband turned on her savagely.
“How can you still feel that way?” he
demanded. “You know he’s cost us a
trip to Europe this year.” That shut her
up. There is no arguing with a missing
dividend cheque.
The President and his advisors,
(notably brother Robert the Attorney-
General of the US) have made efforts to
reassure big business of their essential
friendliness, to little avail.
The spectacle of the Harvard-educated
Kennedy brothers, each o 4 ’ whom in-
herited a fortune from a father who made
his millions as a tough-nosed business
tycoon, trying to convince America’s
corporation executives that they are not
really communist-minded has its comic
aspects. But many people here seriously
believe that if Kennedy is not Red him-
self he is surrounded by counsellors,
notably college professors, who want to
lead the US down the road to a socialist
(i.e. communist) economy.


Coincident with, and doubtless partly
because of, the President falling out
with business community, he has been
having a great deal of trouble with the
Congress. Despite comfortable Demo-
cratic majorities in both the House ol
Representatives and tfr Senate, he has
not been able to gain .c.ssage of major
domestic legislation heeding the anguished
cries of the country’s physicians, as
expressed through the powerful voice of
the American Medical Association,
enough Democrats joined Republican
legislators to defeat the President’s bill
to provide medical care for the aged
through the social security system. It w'as
a severe blow to the President and to his
authority over his own party.
Loss of Prestige
IJut the most striking evidence of the
President’s loss of standing in the
upper echelons of industry and finance
has been the new' attitude of the country’s
mass communications media. The Press,
television, and the rest, towards the Presi-
dent and all members of his family, not
excluding daughter Caroline and her
pony Marcaroni.
Until the Blough episode an unnatural
aura of indulgence, tolerance and at
times affection, surrounded newspaper
and magazine stories emanating from
Washington. Unnatural is a word used
advisedly, since this is a Democratic
administration. During Republican ad-
ministrations, such as the late Eisen-
hower regime, one expects and certainly
gets generous treatment of the White
House occupants in the Press.
There is a simple explanation for this:
At least 85 per cent, of the newspapers
of this country and probably a higher
percentage of the TV and radio stations
are controlled by owners w'ho entertain
a deep and abiding bias in favor of the
Republican Party.
No matter that the vast majority of
reporters, columnists, broadcasters, com-
mentators, and the rest of the lower
orders of the Press in Washington are
invariably Democrats. They write and
broadcast like Republicans when the Re-
publicans are in and when the Demo-
crats are in, too.
But for the first 15 months of the
Kennedy Administration one would have
thought he was a Republican judging by
the tone of news and comment emanating
from Washington.
The handsome President and his
magnificently fashionable wife were
treated with almost the deference Fleet
Street usually shows Buckingham Palace.
The President’s errors were not unduly
magnified in most publications and com-
mentators tended to give him the benefit
of the doubt even when he goofed, as in
Cuba, and lay the mistake to lack of
experience.
Bui one had the uneasy feeling all
along that the situation could not last,
that the Press was just waiting to revert
to normal - that is to return to its
constant, carping, querulous criticism of
everything and everybody in the White
House. The big sw'itch came with
Blough’s humiliation. Since then most
of the Press has been unrelentingly
critical of Kennedy and his family. Albs
right with the world once more.
Now one hears the old, tired gags,
some of them scurrilous, about the Ken-
nedys that one heard about the Roose-
velts and the Trumans.
“If Jack and his brothers Bobby and
Teddy w'ere on a sinking boat, w'ho would
be saved?”
“Answer: The country.”
I heard that one originally about
Franklin Roosevelt, his Vice-President
Henry Wallace and his principal advisor
Harry Hopkins.
Businessmen at conventions wear big
buttons, engraved “I miss Ike. Hell, 1
even miss Harry.” Others have formed
an association called Sons of Business,
which enables them to wear a button
declaring “I am a SOB”, a reference to
the President’s remark about “sons of
bhches”.
NEXT WEEK S ISSUE
• THE COUNTRY PARTY
TODAY — Cover Story
• RUGBY LEAGUE — End of
the Footbrawl Season
• HOLLAND IN EUROPE —
Indonesian Trauma?
• AS I SEE IT — Alan Reid
• WATSON — Forgotten Prime
Minister
• BUDGET—Full Scale Review
Columnists such as Westbrook Pegler
have never wearied of inventing epithets
for Elinor Roosevelt, and hinting at all
manner of scandals behind the White
House doors.
The other day Broadway gossip Walter
Winchell, who likes to think of himself as
a political know-it-all as well, printed a
fake story about Kennedy which has
been circulating throughout the country
by word of mouth for the last few
months. It alleges that the President was
secretly wed before he married Jaqueline
Bouvier but that his father “had all
records destroyed”, and paid someone
$lO,OOO for doing it. After printing the
item, Winchell remarks airily: “Mark the
rumor as untumor”.
One has learned to expect this kind of
thing from the likes of Winchell. But
now that the bars are down on Kennedy-
baiting, everybody is getting into the act.
Norman Maiier, who certainly ought
to have better things to do with his time
and talents, devoted himself to a nasty
critique of Mrs Kennedy that would have
done Pegler proud.
Mailer is a somewhat unstable indivi-
dual, who has appeared in the headlines
as a wife-stabber and cop-baiter, but he
possesses a great literary gift, even
though he has never lived up to the
promise of his first novel, The Naked
And The Dead.
In a recent issue of Esquire Magazine
Mailer delivered himself of the following
comments about Jackie Kennedy and her
televised tour of the White House:
“The voice was a quiet parody of the
sort of voice one hears on the radio late
a* night, dropped softly into the ear by
girls who sell soft mattresses, depilatories,
or creams to brighten the skin ... one
had heard better ones at Christmas time
selling gadgets to the grim.
"Jackie Kennedy was like a starlet who
will never learn to act because the extra-
ordinary vivid unreality of her life away
from the camera has so beclouded her
brain and seduced her attention that she
is incapable of the simplest and most
essential demand, which is to live and
breathe easily while meaning the words
one speaks.”
Mailer, who admittedly had tried un-
successfully to interview Mrs Kennedy
before she appeared on the TV pro-
gramme, summed up his impressions of
the first lady in this gallant sentence:
“1 liked her, 1 like her still, but she was
a phony—it was the cruellest thing one
could say, she was a Royal phony. She
was trying to be a proper first lady and
it was a mistake.”
Vitriolic Attack
rilHis was perhaps the most vitriolic of
-®- all comments about the numerous
Kennedy clan but it is an indication of
the w'ay the wind has been blowing out
of Washington and the President, an
omnivorous reader of newspapers and
periodicals, is becoming increasingly sen-
sitive to criticism. Piqued by a Washing-
ton correspondent's article, he recently
cancelled the White House subscription
to The New York Herald Tribune, per-
haps the most liberal Republican organ
in the country. That impulsive gesture,
so out of character for the normally
controlled chief executive, showed a
certain amount of strain and worry over
his declining popularity.


PEOPLE
OF THE
SUN
A STORY
BY
PATRICIA
ROLFE
MARGO STRETCHED OUT IN THE NARROW BED AND
CLOSED HER EYES AGAINST THE PALE SUN OF
FLORENCE IN JANUARY. “SUN,” SHE CRIED, “I CRAVE
THE SUN. I WAS BORN IN THE SUN. I MUST HAVE
SUN.”
SALLY TURNED FROM THE DRESSING-TABLE, PULLING
HER CHEAP WOOLLEN DRESSING-GOWN CLOSE ABOUT
HER NECK, AND STUDIED MARGO.
ii h, for heaven’s sake, Margo, you
■ ■ do go on,” she said in her flat,
little North-London voice, “And
must you smoke in bed? Last time you
nearly set the house on fire. If you make
trouble this time the signora will have
us out the door in one minute flat. We’re
only here because I went down on my
bended knee.”
Sally went back to her face in the
mirror.
“I don’t know why you imagine that
the sun is hot,” she said peevishly.
“There’s snow all over the mountains.”
“I can imagine it is hot. It is hot be-
cause it is the sun. You don’t understand.
I was born in the sun. Australians are
different. We’re people of the sun.”
Margo lit another Nazionali off a moist
messy bumper and closed her eyes again.
“Do you remember that story by D. H.
Lawrence? About the woman lying in
the sun?”
“If you’ve asked me that once you’ve
asked me a dozen times. Haven’t you
ever read anything else? You’re always
going on about it. I haven’t read any-
thing of his, and I’m sure I haven’t
missed a thing. I think there are enough
unpleasant things in this life without
writing about them. Why do writers have
to dredge up dirt? Why can’t they write
about nice, everyday people? People like
us?”
“She’s lying in the sun . . . she feels
warm and wonderful . . . this white, fat
slug of a husband crawls towards her.
How she loathes him! How anyone who
has been in the sun loathes those under-
a-stone people! You’re right. Lawrence
is a pain. I knew that before anybody.
As far as I'm concerned, that story is
the only thing he wrote.”
Sally at the dressing-table elaborately
registered resignation to her face in the
mirror, then tied a piece of tissue around
her blonde hair at the hairline. She
looked thoughtfully at her face, much
as a house-painter might look over a
room or a plumber examine a particu-
larly tricky installation, then she began the
long, tedious preparation for her ap-
pearance as a mannequin on the cat-
walk at the Pitti Palace in two hours’
time.
“That woman of D. H. Lawrence,”
Margo went on. “He wrote that her
breasts were like long white grapes.”
She looked at her own body under the
grubby, pink flannelette pyjamas, then
wriggled her toes, which lay outside the
covers, as a forlorn, friendly gesture to
herself. “When I first read that I must
have been 15. I remember thinking, it’s
just not possible. Now look at me. A bit
of a sag myself.” She flung back the
blankets and jumped out of bed. “Hell,”
she cried, “I’ve dropped my cigarette.”
She beat among the bedclothes. “It’s all
right,” she said, “Here it is.”
Sally came across.
“Oh, Margo, do be careful,” she said.
“I don’t know why you will smoke in
bed. And why do you have to move the
bed? You know that infuriates the
signora, and it does send the sheets
brown, having them pressed against the
radiator for hours on end.”
“It’s the heat. I crave the sun.”
“Well, the sun isn’t hot, and lying on
top of the central heating won’t make it
any hotter.”
“As long as I feel warm and I can see
the sun, it is something.”
“But we get plenty of summer in Italy.
If you’d been born in a place like Dollis
Hill.”
“You just don’t understand. You come
from a cold climate. I was born in the
sun. I belong in the sun.”
Sally went back to the dressing-table.
Really, she thought, wincing as she
plucked the stray hairs at the end of
each gently curving brow, Margo was
the most irritating girl. She considered
having a good talk with her, but it would
do no good. She glanced in the mirror
at the reflection of Margo, lying on the
bed, her eyes closed, her lips parted at
one side to expel the smoke from the
cigarette which hung from her lower lip.
TI/Fargo thought Sally's 20-year-old blue
eyes looked old and yellow and
seedy. Sally had sometimes seen her
look like this before, particularly in
winter in Rome when work was scarce,
but never quite so bad. Of course, Margo
had wonderful powers of recovery. When
she was working, under the glittering
chandeliers of a fashion-house, or when


Istab'ish 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
tO S *-<LI V/\^t
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. I.td.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufaciuring Stationers
UK A D OPFIC K AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE 1 AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOK BINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTrSTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
(SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
there were plenty of people to admire
her, Margo could look breathtaking.
Only, .of course, each time it was harder
to manage. Sally carefully took stock
of Margo. Her skin was muddy, her
eyebrows needed plucking, the roots of
her hair, which was dyed a plummy
red, were grey and black, half an inch
of grey and black, her teeth and fingers
were stained with nicotine. Sally, whose
beauty represented taking infinite care
over a quite unremarkable prettiness,
closed her eyes and looked away.
“Margo," she said eventually, “aren't
you going to get ready? Sostarelli is at
ten.”
Oh, didn t I tell you? I’m not doing
Sostarelli.”
Sally turned.
“But, Margo," she said, “Sostarelli
always uses you. When did she tell you?”
“Don't get it wrong, sweetie pie. It's
not that she doesn't want me. It’s just
that I'm not doing Sostarelli. I saw the
old so-and-so at the Pitti last night. She
started giving me a whole lot of stuff
about this being her greatest fashion
collection yet, that it was inspired by the
robes worn by the high priests of the
ancient something-or-others. Well, finally
. something exploded. I picked up one of
the hideous things. Mamma mia, I said,
what is it—a fancy-dress party? Those
things, I said. I wouldn’t be seen dead
in them. Why don’t you give them back
to the ancient thingummys?
“Well, did she blow up! She screamed
and shouted. She banged at me with
her fists. I’m black and blue all over
today. At that point I really began to
enjoy myself. There were masses of
people about. They came running from
everywhere. We had a w'onderful
audience. Serves her right, the stupid
old cow.”
“How could you, Margo? Sostarelli is
one of the few of them with any nice-
ness or kindness about her at all. How
could you hurt her?”
Margo shrugged.
“She’s a disgusting old fraud.”
“That’s just silly. She has a lot of
private clients among the old Italian
families. They like that sort of thing.
You can wear those fancy dress things
if you trail round a palazzo all day. But
Sostarelli is one of the few nice people
in this business and old Signor Sostarelli
is a darling. And they've always been
so fond of you. They’ve always been
good to you.”
“What do you mean good to me?”
“She’s always used you.”
“What do you think I am—a deserving
charity?”
“No, of course not. You were . . .
you are a wonderful mannequin. Sosta-
relli was lucky to have you. But it’s
unfair on all of us if you quarrel with
the designers. It’s hard enough for
foreign girls as it is. The Italians are
always looking for an excuse to bar us
from the collections.”
Margo shrugged and pulled the
blankets to her chin.
“Well, I’m not doing Sostarelli. In
fact, I haven t made up my mind yet
who I will do. I might do Lucuilus.”
There s a new house mannequin at
Lucuilus. She’s only 15, with gold eyes,
gold skin and gold hair. Helmut says
she’s ravishing.”
“I might do Fernanda, but not if she
gives me all the dogs.”
"There are two new American girls at
Fernanda. They're doing Sostarelli, too.
One of them says her name is Vander-
bilt.”
“At any rate, I’ll make up my mind
in my own good time.”
Sally sighed, and turned back to the
mirror.
“Now I’m going to put on my pore
mask,” she said. “So I want 10 minutes’
peace and quiet while it sets. It’s expen-
sive enough without having it wasted.”
Sally smoothed the muddy-green lotion
all over her face. She lay down on her
bed, pressing two moistened pads of
cotton-wool over her eyes. The thing
now was to relax, if such a thing were
possible in the same room as Margo.
Of course, Margo's account of the Sosta-
relli affair was not true, although Margo
might even now have convinced herself
that it was. Why would even loyal old
Sostarelli want Margo to wear her spring
clothes when there were 10 or 20 new
young mannequins in Florence from half
a dozen different countries? Why, today,
the first day of the spring collections,
would Sostarelli want Margo with the
dyed red hair, showing grey at the roots,
the sagging body, the nicotine-stained
fingers, even, Sally recollected with a
shudder, the untrimmed toenails? Sally
twisted her mouth in a tiny grimace, and
the mask cracked and flaked like plaster
from an ancient wall. It was all very
well having a reputation as a beauty, but
in the end it was good grooming that
counted. Sally remembered with some
bitterness all the times that Helmut had
extravagantly praised Margo “She has
neck, wrists and feet what else
matters?’' he would say, then turn to
Sally, “Come on, you no-neck monster,
let me see what I can do with you.” Well,
just let Helmut see Margo now, and see
how much neck, wrists and feet amounted
to.
Margo gave a shriek and sprang from
the bed.
“Christ,” she yelled, “am 1 going mad?
Can you smell burning?”
Oally pulled the cotton-wool pads off
her eyes and looked across at Margo
through eyelids which narrowed by the
minute as the mask hardened.
“It’s my cigarette,” Margo said with a
shout of laughter. “It tipped off the
window-sill. That's what comes of being
careful.”
There was a knock at the door, and
the owner of the pensione, without
waiting for an answer, flung the door
open and hurried in.
“My bed!” she shouted. She snatched
the sheet, which was marked with brown
where the cigarette had rested. "Get out,
get out, you!” she screamed at Margo.
“I will not have you here, not another
day. If it had not been for this one,”
she pointed at Sally, who was holding
her hands in front of her face, to hide
her muddy-green complexion from the
woman, and also to keep the mask from
flaking off before it had done something
for her skin, “I would not have had you
at all.”
“You stupid old bitch,” Margo cried
in English, then switched to her rapid,
highly inaccurate Italian. “Do you think


I will stay here another day? Do you
think I will be spoken to like that? We
came here only until we could arrange
something better. We are going to a
hotel facing the river. So, there, you
obscene old fowl.”
Sally tried to interpose, but her slow,
careful Italian and her rigid, muddy-
green jaw were unavailing against the
pair. At length, the Italian, exhausted,
her yellow face flushed, departed, taking
the scorched sheet with her, and slam-
ming the door behind her.
“And bring our coffee,” Margo shouted
after her.
She leant over the bed, straightened
the one remaining sheet and the blankets
and plumped up the pillows.
She laughed in delight as she lay
down again. “God, I enjoyed that,” she
said.
Sally turned from the basinful of
muddy-green foam as the expensive mask
went down the drain.
“Yes, but what if we can’t calm her
down?” she said. “And we do have to
go? This is 300 lire a day cheaper than
anywhere else we know, and we do save
fares to the Pitti.”
“Oh, bless your mean little Pommy
soul. You would be worrying about that.
I simply am not going to put up with
that sort of insolence from an Italian
even if we have to sleep in the street.”
“Oh, Margo, how can you be so
stupid?”
“She enjoyed it. I enjoyed it. You
don’t understand the Italians as I do.
We're people of the sun. I was born in
the sun.” She looked anxiously out of
the window. “The sun will go behind
that building soon. God, what shall I do
when it’s gone?”
“Lord!” Sally said. “Ten to nine. I’ll
have to rush.”
She dabbed some more astringent on
her nose, then looked anxiously to her-
self in the mirror. That pore mask,
nearly 2000 lire a jar, and she might just
as well not have put it on at all. And
as for the 10 minutes’ relaxation while
it set! Completely wasted. This morning’s
upsets with Margo had made her feel
dreadful.
Margo always upset her. If only she
had dumped her and accepted Else’s
offer to go to the Albergo Bianca Capella
with her and Svetlana. It was more
expensive, but she would at least have
had peace and quiet, and would have
looked her best for the shows. She
rubbed at the two small vertical lines
between her brows, but they refused to
go away.
“You don’t understand the Latin tem-
perament,” Margo said. “I don’t know
how you and that puling Lorenzo will
ever get on if you don’t have a brawl
occasionally.”
“I have asked you time and time again
not to discuss my fiance,” Sally said
firmly. She began tremblingly to make
up her face. God, how she loved
Lorenzo! How sure she was, as sure as
any human being can be, that he loved
her too!
“"Oill and I used to have the most
wonderful brawls,” Margo said.
“You wouldn't believe it. They would
go on for days. The nearest property
was three miles away, and they said
that when the wind was blowing from
the south they could hear us at it. And
we broke all the china we had been
given for wedding presents within a year.”
She touched her left cheek. “Once I hit
him just below the left eye with a dinner-
plate. It still had the dinner on it. I
remember it was spaghetti bolognese, a
recipe I got from ‘The Women’s
Weekly’. Throwing it at Bill was about
the best thing to do with it. But I
wonder if the scar still shows.”
“I just hate fights,” Sally said. “We had
a very peaceful home. I don’t think Mum
and Dad have ever raised their voices
to each other.”
“After a brawl Bill would get into the
Jag. and scorch off. And I’d come after
him in the ute. —the utility, you know.
We’d finish off at the main pub in town.
Generally, we’d make it up there, and
if we got too drunk to go back home,
we’d stay the night. God, we had wonder-
ful times!”
She pulled the crumpled packet of
cigarettes from her pyjama-pocket and
lit another cigarette.
“I wonder why the hell he married
that sawney little girl. You know, I
still can’t understand it. I don’t think
she’s ever opened her mouth in her life.
If he wanted children, I could have had
children. But he fooled me. It was so
damned dishonest. He let me go on
believing that he wanted to live it up.
After the war —what the hell? Live for
the moment and let the future take care
of itself. Now he’s got four children.
Why didn’t he tell me? I could have had
children. I think I would have made a
very good mother. As a matter of fact,
I’m particularly fond of children. When
I was a child I always played with dolls.
I still have a doll called Topsy. She’s
only got one eye and one arm. I take
her everywhere with me. She’s in that
trunk of things that Helmut is minding
for me in Rome, I think.”
Sally put down her eyebrow pencil.
“Margo, why don't you go home?”
she asked. “You know, I’ve thought
about it quite a bit lately, and I think it
would be the best thing. You could get
away from all the difficulties of life in
Europe, the awful struggle here. It must
be wonderful out there. So free and
open. You could get married again.
You’re always talking about all the
men out there. You could have children.
Or a child.”
“You don’t know what you’re saying.
You’re out of your tiny little mind. It’s
the end of the world. I wouldn’t go
back there if it were the last place on
earth. It is the last place on earth. And
Australian men. They’re animals. They
don’t even know women exist until they
are tanked. Bill was a complete animal.
He would get drunk, and then he’d look
round with a bleary eye and think—
there’s something else. Ah, yes, sex.
Then his bleary eye would light on me.
There I was, free, legal and no licensing
hours. When I think of the life I’ve had
in Europe, the people I’ve met and so on,
and I think of the way he lives, I feel
so damned sorry for him 1 could cry.
“Could you see me going back now,
among people like that? And the terrific
irony of it all would be that they would
be sorry for me. They are sorry for any-
one who isn’t stinking rich like they are,
who hasn't got a swimming-pool and two
cars. That's all they care about. They
have no standards, no sense of values.
They don't care for culture or anything
worthwhile. What would they care about
me?’’
“What do you care about culture?
You’ve never been to the opera here.”
“Well, at least I know it’s here. I don’t
have to listen to it, do I?”
“Who cares about us here? Once you
stop working what do you think will
happen to you here? What about that
Swedish girl who jumped into the Tiber?
What about Anne Ferguson? I never
can get over Anne. If it weren't for
Lorenzo I simply couldn’t carry on. We're


going to get out of Italy as soon as we
are married. Perhaps we’ll go to Aus-
tralia. Once his mother dies. But you
could go back now. You’re well-known
there. Those journalists are always doing
pieces about you for Australian maga-
zines. You could start a fashion
business.”
“I’m not going back for everyone to
sneer at me, for anyone to see what I
look like now. I’m not going back for
Bill to laugh at me, and that wife of
his, too. I hate Australians. They’re
the cruellest people on earth. It’s the
sun. The sun makes you see everything
so clearly out there. It’s the same with
the Italians. They’re cruel, too. Give
me a cold climate. Mist to hide some of
the abomination of life. Cold to make
people cling together and need each
other.”
“Oh, well,” Sally said shrugging. “It
was just an idea.”
TL/fARGO closed her eyes, and after a
few minutes Sally felt she must have
fallen asleep. Sally knew she didn’t
care where Margo went, so long as she
got out of her life. Of course, she was
grateful to her. Margo had been terribly
good to her when she first came to Rome,
had introduced her to everybody and
had got her lots of jobs. But you could
not go on being grateful all your life.
It was hard enough looking after herself.
She couldn’t earn a living for Margo as
well.
She leant across, rummaged in her
handbag and pulled out her engagement-
book. She would have to find out which
shows, if any, Margo was booked for.
Otherwise she would have to try to think
which photographers Margo hadn’t
fought with, who might use her. Of
course, Helmut would use her, if he
could, but if he were working for
“Elegant” that bitch of a fashion editor
would choose her own models. Failing
all else, Margo could go to the shoe-
makers. She had perfect model feet.
All she would have to do would be to
get off her tail and cut her toenails.
“Margo,” Sally said, “Will I see you at
Monaco di Ponte?"
Margo opened her eyes and sat up.
“Listen," she said, “Just what are you
up to? What business is it of yours what
shows I’m doing?”
"I don’t care what shows you're doing.
I just thought we could have lunch at the
trattoria in the via Porcellana.”
“That dump No, thank you. Anyway,
since you’re so curious I’m not doing
di Ponte. I don’t mind queers. In fact,
I rather like queers, like Helmut, for
instance, but I just can’t stand queers
who act as if they were men. They
offend me.”
“All right, Margo. All right.” Sally
felt suddenly that she would just like
to put her head down among the jars
and pots and lotions and have a good
cry. She couldn’t find jobs for Margo.
She couldn’t help Margo if Margo
wouldn’t help herself. If it weren’t for
Lorenzo . . . but, in honest fact, she
worried about Lorenzo. Did he really
love her? Or was he just being Italian?
Would they ever marry?
“Anyway,” Margo went on, crossing
one leg over the other and swinging it
high in the air. “I didn’t really intend
to come to Florence at all. I’m sick of
the Italians with their crummy old show's.
Everything second-rate. You know
what? Let’s go to Paris. I’ve got a
thousand dollars, the thousand I got from
Helmut tor those American pictures.
We can take the night train, and be in
Paris tomorrow. No, that’d be silly. The
shows don’t begin there until next week.
We could spend a couple of days at
Portofino on the way. Then on to Paris.
I don’t know why I didn’t think of it
before. Paris is different. It’s so exciting,
professional. The French don’t drag
their mannequins out of the nearest
cowyard. Do you know Balenciaga has
a model who’s 48? Balenciaga . . . Dior
. . . Nina Ricci. If we get there early
we can take our pick. I know a vendeuse
at Balmain. A sweetie-pie. What’s her
name? Monique, I think. I always felt
you should go to Paris. They love
English mannequins there. They won’t
even notice you’re a no-neck monster.”
She flung herself off the narrow bed.
“Come on, let’s go.”
Sally’s blue eyes opened wide in terror.
“Oh, Margo, you’re not serious. We
can’t go to Paris.”
Margo shook her shoulders. “Of course
we can, you silly goose. We’re going.”
“I’m just not good enough. My waist,
my neck, my legs. Oh, my blackheads.
We’re not going. We can’t afford it.”
“We can afford it, and we can clean
up a packet there. Enough to loaf
through the summer. I’ve got a thousand
dollars. I’ll pay your way, if that’s what’s
worrying you.”
“You haven’t got a thousand dollars.
You might have a hundred. You bought
that sweater at Mirsa, and that camel-
hair skirt. You’ve been eating the most
expensive things since you got your
hands on it. You had steak last night.
You bought those fantastic Christmas
presents. You gave some money to Else
when she broke a tooth. And you owed
at least 100,000 lire to Helmut in any
case.”
“Well, I’ve got enough to get to Paris
anyway. And a couple of days at Porto-
fino on the way.”
“You can’t spend your money that
way. You should be saving every penny.
From what I hear there won’t be any
work this summer at all. And there’s
a girl at Lucullus who’s only 15. And
two new Americans, one of them called
Vanderbilt. She’ll get all the work, even
if she has two heads. Italians are such
snobs.”
“We are going. We can stay at a hotel,
not some grubby pension. The Tremou-
ille. Or even the old France et Choiseul.
Money talks in Paris. You have to spend
it to make it.”
“Well, you go. I’m not. I haven’t even
got the fare. I’ve got just enough to last
until I get paid for these shows. I gave
everything I had from the Rome shows
to Lorenzo to bank.”
“Lord, I just give you up. I don’t know
how you can go on making a fool of
yourself over that Lorenzo. I don’t know
what you can see in him. At least Bill
was a man. 1 don’t know how you can
pick Lorenzo out in a crowd. I see
someone coming down the street, and I
think, that’s Lorenzo. But it’s not. It’s
just another one out of about 10 million
Italians, all with big, brown eyes and
short legs. You’re mad to get mixed up
with one of them. Particularly that good-
family type. An only child with a
widowed mother. He looks down his nose
at you now. And that mother —”
“We love each other, and we’re going
to be married. At least he’s not an
animal. He doesn’t have to be drunk
to tell me he loves me.”
“When will you be married? When?
When do Italians ever get around to it?
You’ll be fidanziata until you’re 50, and
two years after you’re married he’ll be
off with someone else.
“Anyway, mannequins aren’t fit for
matrimony. You think of yourself all the
time as having the right measurements,
the right height, the right style to wear
the new line. You never think of your-
self as being any good for what God
made you for. You never think of
yourself as being right for a man, or
right for a child. You just have to worry
about looking right for stupid women
with too much money and no brains.
“Sometimes I think mannequins are
one of the most decadent thing.: of the
20th century At least courtesans and
odalisques served some purpose. They
brought joy and comfort to someone.
But me—what am I? Nothing. Less than
nothing. How could I marry someone?
How could I have a child?”
Oally had heard all this before. It was
all very w'ell. Helmut was always
saying what an original mind Margo
had, but where had thinking got her?
Sally listened because it had taken
Margo’s mind off Paris, which would not
be mentioned again. What she must do,
and it seemed the last, desperate chance,


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMNED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
5A413,000.000
9
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, A DEL Ail) %
PERTH, LA UN CEST () N,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON. N.Z.
was to get Margo to the trattoria in
the via Porcellana for lunch.
Sally thoughtfully plucked some small
pieces of cottonwool and carefully
pushed a piece between her toes. She
carefully applied polish to her toenails.
“Christ”, Margo said. “This bed’s
smouldering again.” She jumped up
and pulled at the sheet. “Oh, God, oh
God,” she cried, collapsing in laughter.
“I put the butt in the ashtray at the
end of the bed, but it wasn’t properly
out. I must have kicked the ashtray
with my foot. You wouldn’t believe it.
Do you think there is some wonderful
Freudian significance in my wanting to
set my bed alight?”
Sally felt her stomach lurch as she
tottered across the floor, trying not to
dislodge the pieces of cottonwool between
the wet toenails.
“Oh, Margo,” she said, “it’s worse
than the other. What will the signora
say?”
“I just think it’s interesting. Do you
think I subconsciously want to destroy
myself? Do you think I am confused
about the significance of bed?”
“Oh, Margo, give me the sheet
quickly. We can hide it and buy another
this morning.”
Sally held the sheet up examining the
damage, when the Italian, after her
abrupt knock, flung the door open. The
tray with the two small, white cups of
coffee rocked in her hand. She set it on
the chair.
“Again!” she cried. “Out, out, out,”
she shouted at Margo. “I will not have
you in this house.” She snatched the
sheet from Sally. “She has done this
on purpose. She knows that I am poor,
but she wants me to be poorer.”
“Oh, no, signora, it was an accident,”
Sally said in her slow, careful Italian.
“The signorina has a headache today.
It makes her smoke many cigarettes.”
She moved to the dressing-table and
picked her wallet out of her handbag.
“I will pay you for the sheets. How
much?”
“They were new. Ten thousand lire.”
Sally counted out five thousand-lire
notes and one five-thousand, then looked
in dismay at the smaller notes left in
her wallet.
“She’ll still have to go,” the Italian
said.
“You can’t take ten thousand lire for
those sheets, you obscene old fowl,”
Margo shouted.
THhe Italian came and stood in front
A of Margo.
“Who are you calling old?” she asked.
“You, you ugly old witch.”
“You, you call me old. I have your
passport. To give to the questura. I
know how old you are. And do you
know how old i am? 1 am 33. I look
old. I work hard. I don’t lie in bed
all day and do nothing. I have five
children. They make me old. I have
a husband. He makes me old. But you
you have nothing, and still now you
are old.”
Margo’s right hand swung back, then
hit the woman across her yellowed
cheek.
Sally, with the cottonwool still
between her toes, stumbled to the door
and held it open. “Thank you, signora,”
she said. “We will go today. Both of
us ”
The Italian shrugged, laughed and
left, stuffing the notes into the pocket
of her black dress. “A blow does not
change things,” she said. “She is still
old.”
It/fARGO groped for the cigarette packet
in the pocket of her pyjamas.
“That was what my mother would say
was not the action of a lady,” she said,
“but she asked for it. I don’t know why
you paid for those sheets. I don’t know
why you give way to these Italians. They
don’t respect you for it. Treat them
rough. It’s the only way.”
“Oh, shut up, Margo, shut up,” Sally
said. She took two white tablets from
her handbag, got a glass of water from
the washbasin and swallowed them. She
knew they were likely to upset her
stomach, but her head would be un-
endurable before the day was out if she
didn’t take something.
“If you’re worrying about the money
for the sheets I'll give it to you at lunch-
time,” Margo said. “Just as soon as I
get some change.”
“Oh, forget it. Forget it.”
“Well, darling, I didn't really think
you were worrying about that. You’re
not lousy about money. That’s one thing
I’ll say for you, although why you hand
it to that Lorenzo character I’ll never
know. Here, drink your coffee before
it gets cold. You’re nervous about the
show. Why don’t you lie down for a
minute and let the tablets work. Would
you like a Stock? I got a bottle at the
station last night.”
Sally pulled her black sweater over
her head and stepped into her skirt. “I
haven’t time to lie down. I'll be late
as it is.”
“I don’t know why you worry. I never
worried about a show in my life. They
can take me or leave me.” She laughed.
“Now, of course, they leave me.”
She went back to the bed, flung the
blankets on the floor and lay down.
“God, the sun is going,” she said,
looking out of the window. “You know,
Sally, I’ve been thinking. I’m sick of it
here. The phonys in the dress business.
The Italians. They’re so bloody Italian.
I think I’ll go home. Why don’t you
come with me? You'd love Australia.
It’s fun, such fun. The climate is
wonderful. The sun. The sun. It’s the
most wonderful place. Just to stand on
a street corner and look at one of those
Sydney policemen again. Do you know
they have mounted police to control the
unruly pedestrians, and all the rich
bitches have to pick their way over the
horse flops to get into the classy shops?
That’s the sort of place Australia is. A
true democracy. Wonderful. Let’s both
go. Get away from Europe. After all,
I have a thousand dollars. I’ll pay the
fares. We can get a ship at Genoa and
just go.”
“I’m going to be sick.” Sally said,
scuttling about the room. “Oh, Margo,
Margo, I’ll never get to the bathroom.
Do you mind—the washbasin?”
“You just don’t understand me,”
Margo said, pouting. “It’s the sun.
We’re people of the sun. We're different.
Do you remember that story by Law-
rence? The woman was lying in the sun.
He wrote that her breasts,” she squeezed
her eyes shut, “were like long, white
grapes.”


OVERSEAS
THE REVOLUTION-
10 YEARS AFTER
Nasser's now respectable look?
From H. A. R. PHILBY in Cairo
HThe Egyptian revolution is now 10
A years old. The closing weeks of
its tenth year were marked by the
adoption by the National Congress of
Popular Forces of a national charter
which is expected to serve as basis of
national policy for at least another 10
years. As a comprehensive statement of
political principles and as a guide to
action it is unique in the Arab world.
It is also a deliberate challenge to the
Arab "reactionaries”.
By the terms of the Charter Egypt is
now officially a “co-operative socialist
democracy.” What of the reality?
If Socialism means nothing more than
Government control then Egypt is one of
the most Socialist countries in the world.
With the very important exception of
land, the Government now runs all the
basic enterprises of the country. It con-
trols all banking and insurance, all
foreign trade, the chief industrial, mining
and constructional enterprises, all trans-
port and communications, broadcasting,
the Press and the plusher hotels. It has
also made substantial inroads into retail
trade.
But what of the workers who loom so
large in Western Socialism? They have
certainly gained since the revolution.
There is a minimum wage which is
rigidly applied, at least in Government-
owned and Government-controlled enter-
prises. They enjoy more fringe benefits
than ever before. They get a percentage
of business profits, partly in cash, partly
in benefits. But they have no political
power. Although trade unions are regu-
larly consulted by the Ministry of Labour
and Social Affairs, their functions are
purely advisory. It is the Government
which decides. There is no right to
strike in Egypt. The first of the few
people who have been hanged by the
revolution were ringleaders in a strike
action.
Nobody in Egypt seriously pretends
that the country is already a democracy
in any Western sense of the word. Offi-
cials insist that the drive towards eco-
nomic independence and ultimately wel-
fare is more important than conventional
freedoms. It is true that the National
Congress was elected by popular vote.
But candidates put up for election were
screened by the Government. It was
also clearly understood by all concerned
that the purpose of Congress was to
suggest means of implementing the
Charter, not to tear it up.
Yet Congress is no sham in the con-
text of Egypt. There was no need for
President Nasser to summon it nor to
weary himself by taking part in its de-
bates.
It reflects an anxiety to identify the
people more closely with the work of
the Government and to coax them out
of their traditional lethargy into public
life—always with the understanding that
it is the Government which makes the
rules.
When the revolutionary officers seized
power in 1952 they had no body of doc-
trine to guide them. Some had been in
touch with the reactionary Muslim
Brotherhood; others with Liberals. Social-
ists and Communists. Some had waver-
ed between two or more of these move-
ments. Being mostly of middle or lower
middle class origins themselves, they
knew all about the protest of those classes
against the monarchy and its foreign
friends. Seeing also the futility of parlia-
mentary government during 30 years of
independence they sensed that they, the
Army, could oest give effect to that pro-
test. The event proved that they sensed
correctly.
The original aims of the revolutionary
command were negative: to remove all
foreign influences and to destroy a cor-
rupt ruling class which by supplying de-
fective arms had contributed to bringing
disgrace on the Army in Palestine. Their
positive aims emerged Mter much fumb-
ling from a situation which they in-
herited.
The revolutionary command was the
first wholly Egyptian Government to rule
the country for over 2,000 years. Some
of the preceding dynasties had become
at least partly Egyptianised. But the
masses had held themselves aloof from
government, regarding it as something
alien, acquisitive and often cruel.
Furtherrr re, Egypt was a country in
which the contrast between rich and poor
was as glaring as anywhere in the world.
Its economy was lopsided, heavily de-
pendent on one export (cotton) for
foreign exchange and importing all
heavy and many light manufactures.
In this situation, with alien rule at
home and economic dependence on
foreign countries the revolutionaries saw
the political and economic servitudes in
an organic embrace at the root of all
their evils. Their remedy was to re-
verse the position: to throw out foreign
influence and to build a versatile eco-
nomy, better able to stand on its own.


This prompted the drive towards indus-
trialisation which would have dominated
Egyptian thinking but for the alarming
growth of population which made ex-
pansion of agriculture equally necessary.
Both industry and agriculture needed
urgent attention.
Not consulting the people
rFHE corollary as the revolutionaries saw
-*■ it was that they must keep power
in their own hands at least until the
back of the economic problem was
broken. The Muslim Brotherhood and
Communists were crushed and all party
activity was banned. No pretence was
made of consulting the people. A spokes-
man for the regime recently remarked
that “it was not necessary to consult the
people: its wishes were plain”.
The programme called for a heavy
capital expenditure. Home resources
were squeezed dry to yield savings for
investment. Trade and currency move-
ments were strictly controlled. Prices
and wages were successfully kept at
steady levels (Egypt is by far the cheap-
est country in the Middle East). Capital
in private hands was progressively taken
over. The rich began to disappear. It
was a case of Socialism creeping rather
fast, but for pragmatic rather than doc-
trinal reasons. The doctrine came later,
largely under Yugoslav influences.
These measures were not enough to
finance the bigger schemes which the
Government had in mind. Foreign aid
was needed. But Nasser, still obsessed by
the thought of foreign domination, nar-
rowed his field of search by insisting on
aid “without strings”, which actually
means “without conditions explicitly at-
tached”. The turning point came with
the Soviet arms deal in 1955.
Looked at with the phlegm of seven
years’ habitation, the outcry aroused in
the West by the arms deal looks some-
what absurd. But there were reasons for
it at the time. By one stroke of business
the Soviet Union had become a Middle
Eastern Power leap-frogging the “North-
ern Tier” and biting deep into a sup-
posedly Western preserve; and its emerg-
ence as arms supplier to Egypt upset the
Anglo-American policy of balancing arms
deliveries to Israel and the Arab States.
The first result was exactly what Mr.
Khrushchev wanted; the second was ex-
actly what Nasser wanted.
It was the Dulles era, when neutralism
was immoral. The United States with-
drew its offer to finance the High Dam
at Aswan; Nasser replied by nationalising
the Suez Canal; the British and French
attacked Egypt together with the Israelis;
Egypt was rescued by international action
inspired in part by Mr Dulles, who was
even more shocked by the Anglo-French
action than by the arms deal itself.
The excitement has now died down,
except on the lunatic fringe. The per-
manent damage to Western interests in
the Arab world is likely to be less seri-
ous than was feared at the time largely
because the West has recognised that
Nasser and neutralism have to be lived
with.
Yet in spite of Nasser’s effective stand
against Communism at home and gradual
recovery of the West in Egypt, the Soviet
Union remains the chief outside bene-
ficiary of the squalls which beset the
Egyptian revolution. The military equip-
ment lost in Suez was replaced from
Communist sources. Since 1958 the Rus-
sians have lent Egypt £lB6 million for
industrial installation and for the con-
struction of the High Dam at Aswan.
Full circle indeed!
If the successful struggle for the
nationalisation of the Suez Canal was
the pride of the first 10 years of the
revolution, completion of the High Dam
will be the glory of the second decade.
The two achievements (barring acci-
dents) are likely to go down to history
together as Nasser’s greatest claims to
fame.
Work on the High Dam began in
January, 1960. The venture aims to
increase cultivated land in Egypt by 30
per cent, and to reduce the cost of elec-
tric power, especially for industrialisation,
to a fraction of its present level.
Most discussion about the High Dam
project now centres on two questions:
Whether or not progress is up to schedule
and whether or not the Russians and
Egyptians are working well together.
Both questions are somewhat unreal.
In an enterprise involving at least 10
years’ work around the clock, schedules
must be approximate only and elastic.
As work goes on plans may be modified
because of unforeseen difficulties, second
thoughts or bright ideas. Engineers on
the spot seem to have little doubt that
the entire work including a 12-unit power
station will be in position some time in
1970, give or take a few months.
Russian aid pours in
TThtE same with Russo-Egyptian rela-
tions. It would be absurd to suppose
that an enterprise involving at least
10,000 men and two nationalities could
be conducted with no friction at all. But
the Russians are continuing to pour in
equipment which the Egyptians, with
Russian advice where needed, are bring-
ing into action as fast as they can. Any
disharmony that exists is clearly insigni-
ficant.
Successful gambles like nationalisation
of the Suez Canal, great enterprises like
the High Dam, appeal to the conspicu-
ously human Egyptians. There is a
touch of awe creeping into the popularity
which surrounds Nasser. It is perhaps
strongest with scientists, engineers and
chemists to whom he has promised tech-
nological paradise. But it is also strong
with the Army and Civil Service, with
the liberal professions, with universities
and schools. “Who else would have
dared all these things and got away with
them?” It is now as difficult to con-
ceive an Egypt without Nasser as a Yugo-
slavia without Tito or an India without
Nehru —and Nasser is still a young man.
That, of course, is not the whole pic-
ture. Many have suffered grievously by
nationalisation and sequestration. When-
ever Nasser is said to be preparing a
major speech a tremor runs through
minority elements such as the Greeks
and Armenians. (Of the 840 people
whose property was sequestered after the
secession of Syria a high proportion
were of foreign extraction.) At the
other end of the line there are the more
desperately ignorant peasantry, many of
whom have never yet heard of Nasser.
Even in the Delta it is possible to find
peasants in reasonable number who do
not know that the monarchy has fallen.
Catching the uncommitted eye
A nother source of pride for Nasser’s
is the place Egypt now
occupies in international affairs. In spite
of his failure to supplant "reactionary”
Arab regimes, to keep control of Syria,
to give effective support to African
friends like Lumumba and Gizenga, to
prevent Israeli penetration of Africa: in
spite of all this Cairo is one of the great
capitals of the uncommitted world, per-
haps the greatest after aloof New Delhi.
It is the headquarters of several inter-
national organisations such as the Arab
League and Afro-Asia.i Solidarity Coun-
cil. Scarcely a week goes by without an
international conference somewhere in
the city. It is the home of Countless
exiles from the Arab world and Africa.
Apart from the size and reputation of
Cairo itself, the reason for this polyglot
concentration is that Nasser faces prob-
lems which have their counterparts
throughout the underdeveloped world (in
Cairo one speaks of the "developing” or
“progressive” world).
The spectacular fashion in which he is
tackling them, destroying the rich, impos-
ing austerity, accepting aid from any
quarter and going his own way, even
over the brink into war, has caught the
uncommitted eye. Oddly enough it is his
success in the internal field which has
given him his international reputation;
his foreign adventures have usually dim-
med it.


A MOST UNCOMMON COMMON MARKET
Getting Malaysia off the ground ?
From COLIN LEGUM
fFHE decision to create Malaysia has
A been taken following last week’s
talks between the Prime Ministers of
Britain and Malaya.
Malaysia will comprise a Federation
of 11 States now comprising the Federa-
tion of Malaya with the four colonial
dependencies of Singapore, Brunei, North
Borneo and Sarawak. It would embrace
10 million people living in an area cover-
ing 129,500 square miles.
The architect of Malaysia is the Prime
Minister of Malaya, Tengku Abdul Rah-
man. His supporters include both the
left-wing Prime Minister of Singapore,
Mr. Lee Kuan Yew, and the right-wing
opposition leader, Mr. Lim Yew Hok, as
well as traditional rulers like the Sultan
of Brunei.
The need for, and the problems stand-
ing in the way of, a greater Malaysia
State become immediately apparent in
the population figures of the five terri-
tories involved.
Malaya’s population is seven millions
of whom one half are Malays, just under
40 per cent, are Chinese, and about 10
per cent, are Indians.
Singapore’s 1,700,000 population is 75
per cent. Chinese, 14 per cent. Malay,
and nine per cent. Indian.
Sarawak's population is tiny; only
three-quarters of a million. Of these 40
per cent., are Sea and Land Dayaks, 31
per cent. Chinese and 17 per cent.
Malays.
North Borneo’s half million population
is 68 per cent, “indigenous” (Dunsun,
Murut, Bajau), and 23 per cent. Chin-
ese.
Brunei is diminutive, with fewer than
100,000 people of whom 49 per cent, are
Malays, 19 per cent. Chinese, and 20
per cent. Dayaks and Kedayans.
Two facts stand out from these figures.
First, that Malays and Chinese are almost
equal in proportion in the Malaysia
region; and, secondly, that apart from
Malaya itself, none of the other terri-
tories is large enough to stand securely
on its own feet.
Economically, there are obvious ad-
vantages in a common market of 10
millions with all the opportunities for
joint economic planning.
Militarily, none of these States is able
to withstand any attack on its sovereignty;
collectively they stand a chance of re-
sisting at least an initial attack, and could
better withstand corrosive subversion.
Politically, the “ideological imperial-
ism” of China (which works primarily
through the Chinese communities) could
be most effectively resisted by a strong
State within which Chinese who do not
feel themselves attracted to Peking will
be able to mobilise their forces in alli-
ance with the Malays, the Dayaks and
the rest.
It is these considerations which in-
spired the Tengku and his supporters to
dream up Malaysia. The practical de-
tails of getting it “off the ground” have
been studied by a commission under the
chairmanship of Lord Cobbold. Its re-
port has been presented to Mr Macmillan
and to the Governments of the countries
involved. It unanimously favours the
establishment of Malaysia.
But the campaign for the creation of
this new State has provoked a “cold
war” atmosphere between the Malaysia
supporters and the Chinese Communists.
Peking has denounced the scheme as
“neo-colonialist”, and Peking-orientated
UDLLOWING the Cobbold Report,
the Prime Ministers of Malaya
and Britain have agreed to the
creation of the new Commonwealth
state of Malaysia before August next
year.
The story on this page is every-
man’s guide to some of the complex
and difficult obstacles in the way of
creating a single nation from a div-
ersity of races, languages and politic-
al interests.
Many difficulties lie in the way
yet to the Tengku’s aim of creating
a new Anti-Communtst buffer and
South East Asian Common Market.
parties in Singapore and Sarawak are
engaged in determined efforts to wreck
it.
The rationale behind Malaysia has
been defined in these terms by the
Tengku: “The alignment of small coun-
tries is dictated not only through a desire
to live as free men and not as colonials,
but by a desire to survive in a world
harassed by formidable and destructive
forces which are constantly looking for
new conquests.”
The Tengku has carried his fight
against the Chinese Communists into
the open. “The Communists,” he said
recently, “do not want Malaysia, because
the Federation does not recognise Com-
munism in any shape or form. Merger
would prevent those who are Communist-
minded from being able to align in-
dependent Singapore with the Commun-
ist bloc . . . Whichever course they
propose their object is still the same—-
to make a Communist State of the Malay
peninsula and also of the Borneo terri-
tories.”
One of the principal points of attack
by the Chinese is on the proposed de-
fence arrangements for the new Malaysia
State. Under the Anglo-Malayan De-
fence Agreement, Britain has the right
to maintain a Commonwealth Strategic
Reserve in the present Malay Federation
for the fulfilment of Commonwealth and
international obligations.
It also affords Britain the right to con-
tinue to maintain bases at Singapore, “for
the purpose of assisting in the defence
of Malaysia and for Commonwealth de-
fence, and for the preservation of peace
in South-east Asia”.
These military agreements will have to
be revised in the new Constitution for
Malaysia. This was one of the major
questions explored in the talks in London.
There are, however, other divisive
factors that do not relate to the Chinese
or the Communists in Malaysia. The
smaller ethnic groups fear Malayan domi-
nation, and some are opposed to the
Islamic religion (which holds sway over
Malaya itself) prevailing over all the
member-States.
Thus, although Brunei and North
Borneo are small, they are comparatively
rich, and are therefore anxious not to
lose their economically advantageous
positions.
But none of these factors is as threat-
ening as the political situation in Singa-
pore itself. There the overwhelmingly
Chinese population is divided into four
major political groupings: the democratic
socialists of the Premier’s minority Gov-
ernment; the right-wing bourgeois who
support Mr Lim Yew Hock's party; and
two militantly Marxist parties, the
Barisan Socialis and the United People’s
Party. These latter two parties are cam-
paigning against any merger between
Singapore and Malaya as a prelude to
the wider Malaysia Federation.
The issue will be decided by a refer-
endum of Singapore voters in the next
few months. If this hurdle is overcome
the prospects of Malaysia will brighten
considerably.
But the Tengku is in a hurry. “Time
is not on our side,” he said recently.
“We cannot afford to wait without
providing the Communists with the
weapons they need for subversion, in-
filtration and disruption with the ulti-
mate objective of capturing these terri-
tories.”


FORUM
WHY VICTORIAN TEACHERS
WANT TO STRIKE
The New Illiteracy
By CHRISTOPHER KIERCE
If the recent publicity given by the Victorian Secondary Teachers’
Association to the scandalous state of secondary school education
achieved nothing more, it at least uncovered a staggering degree
of complacency on the question. The simple, and quite false
official explanation that the Governments are doing everything in their
power to overcome a transitional crisis wished upon them by
a rapid post-war population expansion accompanied by a growing
demand for higher education, has been accepted without question.
The fact is that very little of the present crisis can be attributed
to these causes. What the country must face is not simply a temporary
crisis of staffing and accommodation, but a rapidly deteriorating educa-
tional standard whose ultimate results will be little short of a national
disaster.
Among the surface Matures of the
crisis, these stand out:
• a grave shortage of qualified teach-
ers which has led to the employment of
hopelessly unqualified teachers and the
institution of second-rate teacher training
courses;
• overcrowding of classes to the point
where effective teaching is impossible by
even the most competent of teachers;
• an appalling lack of essential equip-
ment, even of bare classrocms;
• a rapidly declining standard of
scholarship, in fact of literacy, in schools;
• a dilution and neglect of the teach-
ing service which makes it by far the
most depressed profession in the country.
Of these only two can in any way be
attributed to population explosions,
democratic excesses and so on. It is true
that classes are overcrowded and some
teacher shortage is inevitable. But most
of the features of the crisis go beyond
this. The fact that teaching is a very de-
pressed profession in part accounts for
the teacher shortage. The lack of equip-
ment is simply a question of money, yet
it is allowed to go on affecting the
standard of instruction. The rapidly de-
clining level of literacy is at least as
much due to the courses prescribed as
it is to the incompetence of teachers.
And so the circle becomes more and
more vicious.
Some measure of the magnitude of
the task facing us may be gauged from
an examination of the teacher shortage.
In Victoria, for example, (the situation
is much the same in other States) 30
per cent, of the five thousand secondary
teachers lack the traditional qualifications
of university degree and diploma of
education. Some of these are in the
process of getting the qualifications, but
many have not even completed second-
ary school themselves. Seeing this crisis
looming over a decade ago, the Educa-
tion Department has stopped at nothing
to overcome it—short of course of actu-
ally raising the standard of the profes-
sion. It offers the most attractive student-
ships, coaches its students (to little effect
apparently since they have a higher fail-
ure rate that Commonwealth scholarship
holders) and in the last couple of years
has introduced courses by which alleged-
ly inferior students can gain qualifications
without ever poking their noses into the
university. Yet in spite of these earnest
and largely misguided efforts, the number
of new teachers does not even meet cur-
rent demands, and the number of un-
qualified teachers continues to grow. And
it must be remembered that even if they
could multiply the output by four and
replace unqualified teachers, the pupil-
teacher ratio would still not be affected.
In the first four years of secondary school
the average size of classes is between
forty and fifty, and steadily rising. De-
pending on subjects and methods, the
effective class size should be about
twenty. Thus, before we can come any-
where near our supposed objective of
educating everyone to the limit of his
ability, we would have to more than
double the number of qualified second-
ary teachers. The most heroic efforts
would not achieve this in two genera-
tions, and we are not capable of even
the most minimal effort.
If the general public is either ignorant
of or indifferent to this situation with
all its attendant evils, surely at least
parents must be disturbed by the central
and most urgent problem of all—the
decline in standards. In fact no one
seems concerned. When two Professors
of Engineering Hunt in Sydney, and
Francis in Melbourne protest that
half their students are illiterate, the Mel-
bourne Professor of Education delivers
himself of a few old saws about popular
and specialized education, pours on
some oil about English teaching never
being better, and that’s that. When the
Acting Minister of Education is taxed
by questions from secondary teachers
about teaching standards, he blandly and
publicly states that “Some of our best
secondary teachers are unqualified”, and
he gets away with it! An unqualified
teacher is one who has no recognized
training in his subject. Is there anyone
left who knows what we are supposed to
be teaching?
In effect it is hard to say that schools
teach at all. They adapt. Rarely in the
history of education has adaptation
reached such a point of refinement that,
while continuing to go through the forms
of education, a system can pass for
University entrance students who are
ignorant of the correct use of their
mother tongue. And it cannot be stressed
too much that this is due only in very
small measure to the staffing and accom-
modation crisis. For the most part it is
simply a reflection of the prevailing
community attitude to education, to the
attitude which imposes hardly any rigour
on children, to the attitude which leaves
education in the hands of an inbred cen-
tralized authority whose sole discernible
aim is to adapt itself to immediate critical
exigencies. Few dare to calculate the
long range results of the present wastage
of students in the highly complex and
demanding world they will have to sur-
vive in. No one can know how long the
teaching profession, which must bear the
main responsibility of setting and main-
taining standards, will take to recover
from the body blows raining on it more
and more heavily.
The first and most urgent step to any
sort of recovery must be a national
enquiry to establish the facts of the
present situation, and to define some


common objective for our State system.
In view of the absence of both facts and
public interest, the scope of such an
investigation can only be broadly sug-
gested, but secondary teachers would
probably expect at least the following
issues to be examined.
Above all our objectives must be
decided upon. To talk glibly of “popular”
education is the easy way out. The only
noticeable effect of taking in more and
more students has been a universal lower-
ing of standards. There is very little
evidence that this is inevitable. One very
cogent reason for the increasing demand
for education to-day is that jobs are
harder to get without it; and everything
points to the dismaying fact that they
will go on getting harder. Unfortunately
this growing need for education has
coincided with a widespread relaxation of
educational expectations. The key sub-
ject, English, upon which progress in any
intellectual activity depends, be it in
other school subjects, in community
activities or simply in leisurely pursuits,
has had the substance taken out of it.
The old rigorous but unimaginative cour-
ses with their emphasis on grammar,
correct usage and abstract analysis have
given way to courses which in seeking
“imaginativeness” merely preserve child-
ishness. The fault is not entirely the
schools'. 1 hey drift in the gentle winds
of permissiveness, and adapt their
expectations to those of a passive com-
munity. Yet there is no good scientific
reason to suppose that, given the right
conditions, the average child is not
capable of a rigorous secondary educa-
tion. Many would say he was capable
also of a tertiary education. The disturb-
ing fact, in an era of supposedly general
education, is that this has never really
been tested. There are cases that suggest
that it is true, but we have come nowhere
near establishing the possibilities of our
most widely avowed aim to educate
everyone to the limits of his ability.
Closely tied to these notions is the
question of courses. One of the most
pernicious aspects of modern secondary
school courses has been the introduction
of pseudo-practical subjects at the
expense of the traditional subjects.
Cookery, household management, wood-
work, sheet metal work have replaced the
classics and are crowding out basic sub-
jects like Modern Languages, Mathema-
tics and English. They represent simply
the admission that students entering
secondary schools i.eed some sort of
hebby-like distraction from the rigours
of academic work. These practical clas-
ses normally occupy half a day a week,
which is more than the time allotted to
a modern language, to History, to Geo-
graphy or to Music. Ironically enough,
Cookery on which far more money is
lavished than on libraries and all the
Sciences put together, is probably the
only “subject” which every home in the
country is equipped to teach. One would
think that in times of crisis, such things
would be taken into account.
This is simply an illustration of the
deliberate attempt to water courses. The
story of adjustment to a steadily declining
standard is much the same right through
the school. When the basic sequential
subjects Modern Languages, Mathem-
atics and English those that is which
presuppose progressive development, are
played down in the initial years (and of
course taught by unqualified teachers) the
standard in later years must drop accord-
ingly. It is no longer a professional
secret that a majority pass must be
obtained irrespective of standard; in fact
it is a professional blunder to fail many
or to aim at a higher standard than the
general.
Few people apart from those profes-
sionally engaged in education would be in
a position to realize that a good deal of
the present wastage of students due to
large classes and courses adapted to
standards w'hich set too easy goals, could
be overcome in spite of the teacher
shortage. Obviously an enquiry would
have to recommend a far greater national
expenditure on education at least
double the present but it would also
have to determine whether what money
is now spent is spent wdsely. Very ex-
pensive domestic arts’ blocks alongside
science laboratories equipped with home-
made instruments are clear anomalies.
The use of programmed machines, langu-
age laboratories and audio-visual
methods, common overseas, is virtually
unknown here. Fully qualified teachers,
that rare commodity, are used for a host
of jobs which a larger office staff could
easily cope with. On examination, educa-
tion on the cheap will be found to be
inefficient even within its own terms.
Perhaps most important of all the ills
of the teaching profession must be
diagnosed and remedied. That Victorian
teachers’ recent agitation over the crisis
could be so easily dismissed by the
Premier without any public protest, as
an attempt to get higher salaries, is
indication enough of the contempt in
which teachers are held. Throughout the
entire affair the administration made no
attempt to defend some of their most
respected employees. On the contrary, it
tried to restrain them. The teaching
service to-day has none of the traditional
marks of a profession apart from a res-
ponsibility to the community, and,
clearly, a willingness to work irrespective
of monetary rewards. The Education
Department has not even left them the
mark of professional qualifications. It is
possible to become a fully accredited
secondary teacher of academic subjects
with Departmental qualifications alone.
A teacher could spend his whole life,
from prep, school to retirement, within
the Education Department. Even those
who have had independent university
training gradually fall into orbit around
the tiny, lightless world of the Depart-
ment. The vital distinguishing mark of a
profession the right to set up its own
standards within the framework of a
code of ethics is utterly lacking in the
teaching service. The sole judges of
standards, the self-styled “advisors” of
teachers, are Inspectors the same men
who assess teachers for promotion.


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
EDUCATION COLLAPSE?
Sir,
The editorial in your issue of July 21
headed “Collapse of Australian Educa-
tion?” is slightly astray of the facts as
far as Victoria is concerned. The editorial
states: “In Victoria the State Schools
suffer from the greatest teacher shortage
in its history, and the Government will
not pay the sort of salaries that might
attract more teachers.”
Over recent years, the Victorian Gov-
ernment has given the Education De-
partment a free hand to recruit as many
teachers as possible. This applies particu-
larly to secondary teachers. Since tak-
ing office seven years ago, my Govern-
ment has doubled the number of primary
teachers in training, and trebled the
number of secondary teachers in training.
In 1955, the number of teachers in
training was 3,047, including 859
secondary students. This year the num-
ber is 6,700, including 2,463 secondary
students. I must point out also that
allowances for secondary teachers in
training in Victoria are the highest in
Australia, and are more than double
those paid in New South Wales.
On the question of salaries for teach-
ers, I must stress that this has nothing
whatever to do with the Government;
it is a matter entirely for the indepen-
dent Teachers Tribunal to determine.
Every award on salaries and conditions
made by the Tribunal has been accepted
unreservedly by the Government. The
Victorian Government’s education record
is second to none. The number of
scholarships and bursaries awarded by
the Government has jumped from
3,407 in 1955 to 5,692 in 1962. We are
spending more per pupil on education
than any other State, despite the fact
that Victoria gets the lowest return per
head from uniform taxation. Annual
expenditure on education in Victoria has
more than doubled since we took office
seven years ago. Government spending
on education in 1939-40 was just over
£3 million, equal to £l/16/10 per head
of the State’s population.
In 1954-55, the year before we be-
came the Government, it was about £25
million (£lO/3/9 per head). For the fin-
ancial year just ended, this expenditure
jumped to nearly £59 million, equal to
£l9/14/10 per head of population, or
nearly one-third the State’s total expen-
diture for the year. Education will again
receive the highest priority this financial
Year, and it is estimated that the Edu-
cation vote in the Budget to be brought
down in September, will be well over
£6O million.
The Government is rapidly overcom-
ing the school accommodation problem
and has lifted its average classroom con-
struction rate to 941 per annum over the
last seven years compared with an aver-
age of 398 per year during the same
period before it came into office. Dur-
ing the year ended the 30th June last, the
total number of classrooms built was a
near record 1,118. This was 15 fewer
than the 1960/61 record, but the slight
drop was due to greater emphasis on
secondary school accommodation, which
is more costly and complex.
No new high schools were erected be-
tween 1938 and 1954, but since the
present Government came into power in
1955, over 100 high schools have been
built or are in the process of being con-
structed. I feel sure that you will agree
that the Government’s education record
is a commendable one, and that we are
doing everything humanly possible to
provide the best possible staff and ac-
commodation for the children of this
State.
L. H. S. THOMPSON
A/Minister of Education.
CARDINAL GILROY AND AID
Sir,
The extraordinary feature about Goul-
burn was that it came three months after
the Catholics in NSW had returned the
ALP to power, that is, voted for the
only major political party in Australia
which has a positive policy of no aid
to Church schools. Why did they vote
the government into office and then
demonstrate against it in a wild, futile
sort of way?
The explanation is that there is a
privileged economic class in the Catho-
lic body in NSW whose influence ex-
tends from the highest to the lowest.
That class comprises primarily the in-
fluential Catholic NSW cabinet ministers
and, to a lesser extent, the other ALP
politicians in NSW.
These influential Catholics must sup-
port the secularist ALP policy on educa-
tion. They marshal behind themselves
the Catholic vote, so that Catholics
actually vote for no aid to Church
schools, reject parties that will give them
some redress, and thus reduce themselves
to political impotence.
One of the advantages that the ALP
privileged Catholic class has over ordin-
ary Catholics is its ready access to the
Hierarchy.
J. N. PHIPPS
Elsternwick (Victoria).
“SELF-SEEKING SECONDARY
TEACHERS”
Sir,
Would you please allow us space in
your journal to scotch a calumny on
primary teachers perpetrated by your
Melbourne Correspondent in the article
“And a Strike in Melbourne” (Bulletin,
July 21).
First the statement “The qualifica-
tion for his primary counterpart is
Leaving Certificate”.
(a) When the primary teacher “fin-
ishes” his training he still has two
full years of university work to
do, in his spare time, and at his
own expense.
(b) A cross section of teachers in each
division in the senior grades shows
a remarkable degree of equality in
standards of academic standing.
Then the statement “The primary
teacher starts on full pay at least three
years before the secondary teacher, the
latter takes something like thirty years
to catch up”.
(a) In actual fact it takes seven years.
After ten years the secondary
teacher is thousands of pounds
ahead.
(b) This is recognised by young men,
because the only men coming into
the primary service are those for
whom the secondary division can-
not find facilities for training.
Just as no worthy edifice can be erect-
ed on a false base, the whole educational
system depends on the quality of the
primary teacher. These self-seeking
secondary teachers, who are prepared to
go to any lengths to gain a selfish privi-
leged position, do education little service
by such distortions of fact.
R. G. JENNINGS B.A.
R. J. SMITH B.A., Dip. Ed.
T. N. BAINBRIDGE B.A., Dip. Ed.
Primary Teachers,
Hawthorn West (Victoria).
SPIES AND ACCOMPLICES
Sir,
The recent Soviet diplomatic spying
affair in New Zealand should not come
to us as a shock. But there is another
aspect which should make us think: fra-
ternisation and collaboration of some
prominent NZ citizens.
It is amazing how some people run to
celebrate anything from an Independence
Day of a Latin American Republic to
the Anniversary of the Russian October
Revolution as long as the invitation
comes from an Embassy or Consulate.
The Communist agents know this weak-
ness of naive people and they exploit it
to a maximum.
It remains to be seen whether Soviet
agents used any MB’s in Canberra to
question the Government about its
foreign policy. But Free Jugoslavs would
be grateful to any MP of any political
party if he would question the Govern-
ment about the intimidating activities of
the Jugoslav Communist Consulate-Gen-


eral which spreads its nets from Double
Bay to all Jugoslav communities in Aus-
tralia.
The Jugoslav Consulate finances its
monthly “Jugoslav-Australian Journal”,
edited by Ivan Kosovic, the first Honor-
ary Consul for Communist Jugoslavia in
Sydney. The same Consulate finances
and helps the Soccer Club YUGAL and
JUST (Melbourne). Some Jugoslav Clubs
—like the ones in Broken Hill and War-
riewood are marching under the blue-
white-red Jugoslav flags with the Bol-
shevik star in the centre.
The Ex-Consul-General of JugosUvia,
Zivko Josilo, who departed recently from
Australia, used to be very active. He
regularly visited uninvited the
homes of Jugoslav migrants, Australian
citizens, talking about “unity”. His re-
cent successor Dejan Popovic proved to
be a trusted member of the Communist
Party of Jugoslavia. No doubt Popovic
is going to abuse his privileges just the
same as Josilo did.
To assist the Communist agents to
lower the spirit of Free Jugoslavs and
damage the cause of Free Jugoslavia it
seems to be easy for them to find some
willing collaborators in the persons of
well-off Australian citizens who attend
various functions celebrating the anni-
versary of Tito’s birthday or the day of
the Communist Usurpation. On top of
these cocktail parties at the Consul's
home at Bellevue Hill, the Consulate
organises twice each year the celebra-
tions in Paddington Town Hall which is
provoking Free Jugoslavs to demon-
strate against the agents of the same
Government which caused them to leave
their own homes.
On two occasions the U.N. Ladies’
Auxiliary entertained the wife of the de-
parted Jugoslav Consul, Mrs Z. Josilo. On
both occasions Free Jugoslavs warned the
ladies with the leaflets against being used
as the tools for Communist cause. Some
of the ladies therefore refused to par-
ticipate on 26th of June at Rex Hotel,
King's Cross when a farewell lunch was
given to Mrs. Josilo. Free Jugoslavs also
sent to Mrs. .1. F. Groth, the President
of the U.N. Ladies Auxiliary, a telegram:
“How far will your collaboration with
Communists go?”
One day Jugoslavia will be free Then
and only then could people of Jugoslavia
be a true ally of a free Australia.
LYENKO URBANCHICH
King’s Cross (NSW).
COLONIALISM IN OUR
LITERATURE
Sir,
Allan Oaten’s anxiety (Bulletin, July
28) to entertain himself by imagining
how I could earn academic qualifications
by comparing Patrick White with Wil-
liam Shakespeare may be soothed if I
assure him that I have no intention of
horning in on the academic racket by
making humorless comparisons of that
kind.
If I were expected to write a D. Litt.
thesis with that futile but typically
academic approach to criticism, 1 should
have to include in it the startlingly
obvious statement that Patrick White’s
travesty of Australian history in “Voss”
is distinctly less convincing as a work
of art than Shakespeare's travesty of
Scottish history in “Macbeth”.
I suppose that Patrick White himself
would modestly endorse that opinion,
even though it is in conflict with the
extravagant praise by some Australian
(dense) academic reviewers of his novels,
implying that Shakespeare has been
equalled or possibly surpassed by a
chimerical Australian imaginator whose
prose style is so formless that many of
his sentences cannot be parsed.
The divorce between academic and
public appreciation of literature has thus
become absolute. In Australia this is a
colonial phenomenon, the following of
literary fashions imported from Britain,
based on theories of the disintegration
of consciousness which may be appro-
priate there; not on the upward curve of
life which is, or should be, characteristic
of Australia at this stage of our emer-
gence from colonial to national status.
P. R. STEPHENSEN
Cremorne (NSW).
(This correspondence is now closed —
Ed.)
AUSTRALIAN CIVILIZATION
Sir,
I just finished reading “Aus-
tralian Civilization” edited by Peter Cole-
man, and Henry Mayer's review of this
book in the Red Page (Bulletin, July
7). I was very disappointed that no
one contributed a chapter on Australian
music, and that The Bulletin’s review-
er did not comment on this omission.
Nothing could have been more damn-
ing than James McAuley’s remark that
he “will say nothing of Australian music
which is still struggling unconvincingly to
birth”. I fear that James McAuley is
indulging in one of those “moods of self-
depreciation” which he mentions as
being typical of our attitude in cultural
matters. I wonder on what knowledge of
Australian music he bases his remark?
(MRS.) JOYCE GARRETTU
Mitcham (Victoria).
AUSTRALIA: LAND OF
ABORIGINES
Sir,
As one of the few “eavesdroppers” in
Australia who own a copy of Mr
Meray’s book; “L’Australie”, I have read
with great interest Mr Neil Mclnnes’
review on “The Red Page” (Bulletin,
July 28).
Mr Mclnnes says that Australians will
feel a little resentment at being included
in the list of “L’Atlas des Voyages”,
as the theme of this collection is
obviously exoticism, to show “pictures of
really weird places”, such as (he quotes
the others on the list): “Cuba, the Ivory
Coast, Morocco, Hungary, Iran, Syria,
Tahiti, Andalusia and Brazil”.
I wonder what Hungarians felt read-
ing this? Being one myself, I have some
idea . . .
The reason that most of the book’s
illustrations are of aborigines is, in my
opinion, certainly not a trick to fit
Australia among the exotic countries, but
the realisation that the existence of this
ancient race is something unique which
is bound to raise a great deal more in-
terest than anything else. Looking at
books published within Australia we in-
evitably find that a very considerable
number of them, too, is concerned with
the history and customs of the aborigines,
and the interest in this, within and be-
yond Australia, is, if anything, increas-
ing all the time.
Unfortunately, Mr Mclnnes’ review
was based on misinformation. In actual
fact, the list of countries appearing in
the collection of “L’Atlas des Voyages”
also includes besides Tahiti, Australia,
Hungary and other weird places:
England, Germany, Belgium. Norway,
Canada, Yugoslavia, the United States,
Canada and others.
(Miss) MARIA KOVACS
Neutral Bay (NSW).
A SUNDAY KIND OF LOVE
Sir,
David Malouf’s patronising denuncia-
tion (Bulletin, July 21) of the Poetry
Magazine and the Poetry Society was a
miserable performance. Most of his ex
cathedra pronouncements are either open
to question or untrue.
He declares that many of the contri-
butions lack “the tension of real poetry”,
but he produces no evidence that tension
is a sine qua non of true poetry.
He bemoans the fact that a lot of
the contributors are women whose writ-
ing is based on literature rather than on
“any direct experience”. I suggest that
great masterpieces by poets such as
Dante, Milton and Coleridge, to name
but a few, were based less on direct ex-
perience than on knowledge culled from
literature and transmuted into poetry by
a mysterious form of catalysis commonly
known as poetic genius.
Incidentally, the present Editor of the
Poetry Magazine happens to be a woman
in active medical practice whose poetry
obviously owes much to direct experi-
ence. It is more than likely that none
of the other writers dwell in the ivory
tower to which Mr Malouf insists on
consigning them. Anyway, there is a
grave shortage of ivory towers and glass
houses, these days. Those available are
fully occupied.
Another thing that annoys Mr Malouf
is that moral conclusions are reached by
the intrusive amateurs without “effort”
or “sweat and tears”. He seems particu-
larly distressed by the unforgivable ab-
sence of sweat and tears. I hazard a guess
that moral conclusions (if any) reached
by many great poets of the past were
singularly devoid of sweat and tears.
Finally, I must say that I am grate-
ful to David Malouf, because his review
impelled me to buy an August copy of
the Poetry Magazine the existence of
which I had been unaware. It interested
me enough to make me decide to become
a regular subscriber.
N. EDGEWORTH SOMERS.
Rose Bay {NSW).


REVIEWS
TELEVISION
INJECT SOME IMAGINATION
BY FRABJ RIBERTS
T ast week a Sydney television critic
decided he had seen the year’s worst
Australian show, the first of a new ABC
variety series called “Personally Yours”,
and featuring Les Patching on that
occasion.
“Why does the ABC in Sydney have
to take such trash from Melbourne?” he
asked. “Why is OUR money being
wasted on such vapid projects? Now
that I've started, I may as well get it all
off my chest.
“Melbourne is beginning to swamp us
with quiz shows, audience participation
sing-songs and a miscellany of kiddies’
hours, variety and drama.”
Excepting Graham Kennedy and some
of “Consider Your Verdict”, the critic
remarked that most TV imports from
Melbourne were little more than time
fillers and, sometimes, time wasters.
“Without parochial prejudice,” he went
on, '‘l like to think that Sydney-produced
programmes available for interstate show-
ing generally are of a considerably higher
standard.”
To that point I was fairly much in
sympathy, but at the next glance read
that, “Last week’s most inventive pro-
gramme was ‘Heyday’, the Joyce Bel-
frage-John West survey of the history
of the Australian theatre.”
I thought it promised much but
delivered little, so there you are—critics!
If the “Heyday” of theatre in Australia
was 1880-1900, as this affair suggested,
including the depression of the 90’s,
which it failed to mention, then some
of my elderly acquaintances have sadly
misled me. They reckon the theatre was
in its heyday between 1900-1920.
“Heyday” was interesting because it
mingled graphics with “snatches of re-
enacted performances” (by the Ensemble
Theatre players) from the 19th century.
These would have enlivened it had they
been snatches and no more, illustrations
to support the pictures of theatre
interiors and exteriors, managers and
players. But they were much more, too
much more, and they slowed the pace and
became bores.
We all know that many plots were trite
and the acting often labored in 1890.
Why offer a lengthy scene from “Struck
Oil” to prove it, with a dirty great
theatre set when, on television, two
players and a corner set would do?
“Heyday” showed us the corn. I refuse
to believe that no worthy acting was
seen in those times. Dion Boucicault was
barely mentioned in passing. The only
“snatch” of Shakespeare shown proved
that gold miners on a spree occasionally
wandered on stage, and this bit was silly
and pointless.
It was also the one time that Joyce
Belfrage (script and production) admitted
that audiences were any part of the
theatre. “Heyday” was merely a recital
of dates and names, with a few pictures
and some overlong re-enactments.
It told us nothing about first nights,
problems of lighting and scenery, actors’
personalities, the range of plays presen-
ted, whether they included any Austra-
lian or experimental works (such as
G. 8.5.), audience reactions, reviews. In
fact it was unimaginative, and lifeless.
And this is a pity because most people
would enjoy such excursions into the
Australian past if they were done with
some pace and verve. The Melbourne-
produced “Roaring Days” was far from
perfect, but it was a classic in compari-
son.
nffHERE seems to be a feeling that the
A graphics in such productions must be
aged originals. If there are gaps in the
material available, any good commercial
artist could provide suitable drawings,
true to the period. Words should be as
few as possible, and very much to the
point, backed by intensive research to
make them informative, and helpful in
creating a sense of the period.
Shows built around stills could be
more valuable, and less costly, than many
local attempts to fly the moon. But a few
like “Heyday” will make viewers avoid
them as the plague.
I fear that a few more General Motors
Hours like the Maggie Wishart epic,
“One Day of the Year”, and, last Sun-
day night, “Candida”, will have a similar
effect on viewers, especially with such
strong opposition as the Circus Schumann
in “International Showtime” (Melbourne),
Gable and Tracy in “Academy Theatre”
(Sydney), and the ABC’s admirable
“Sunday Night Theatre” in both cities.
Tuning in to “Candida” towards the
end, I was thankful that I had chosen the
ABC programme. Another Peter Cotes
production, “Candida” had a fine period
setting, Miss Joan Miller in the title role,
and dialogue to match the furnishings.
G.B.S. used to liken himself to Shakes-
peare, and some of his plays may be
alive four centuries hence, but not this
one. Its “perfect woman” may have had
timely qualities in 1897, but she lacks the
timeless quality necessary for survival in
1962.
In Sydney last night the ABC had a
BBC production of Terence Rattigan's
“Adventure Story”, concerned with the
life and times of Alexander the Great. If
it had any faults, I missed them. It ran
nearly two hours and every minute was
engrossing. This was from a stage play
too, but unlike Mr Cotes, its producer
Rudolph Cartier did not feel that he had
to photograph it as one.
He used four or five settings, mainly
the interior of Darius’ tent after Alex-
ander had taken it, and which the Mace-
donian then hauled around the civilised
world with him, complete with throne.
But within the tent the camera truly be-
came a “member of the cast”, free to see
events from all angles, to study faces, and
record the many subtleties of the acting.
I can recommend “Adventure Story”,
when it comes your way, as a superb
example of the educational which some
people demand of television, made
breath-taking by imaginative use of the
medium of an historical drama, involv-
ing great clashes of arms and the fall of
empires, achieved with hardly a detour
from the faces of its main characters,
and Alexander’s in particular, where the
effects of all that occurred were visible,
where the glories and tragedies of an era
were properly mirrored.
It was also a timely and suitable
answer to a recent declaration in the
“Age” that British and Australian tele-
vision are comparable, for purposes of
criticising the latter's shortcomings. We
would not have the actors, or the required
techniques, to make anything one quarter
as adventurous as “Adventure Story’. It
outdistanced any American production I
have seen, including all of Hollywood's
costliest historamas.


THEATRE
CONFUSION WORSE CONFOUNDED
Luther. John Osborne. Emerald Hill
Theatre. Melbourne.
The Desk Set. William Marchant. St
Martin’s Theatre (formerly Little
Theatre). Melbourne.
“T uther” is a very disappointing play.
lt begins well, with some strongly
written and vividly imagined scenes
dealing with Luther’s early monastic
career, but once the frame of reference
is widened Mr Osborne seems to lose
his way. Too many issues are brought
briefly to our attention, and then
dropped, without having been related to
any controlling idea. Instead of elucida-
tion, we have confusion worse con-
founded indeed, even the course of
events is made difficult to follow. At the
end, we are left with only one really
strong impression about the whole
business: that Luther, poor fellow, was
constipated nearly all of the time.
The basic cause of the failure is, I
suppose, an intellectual deficiency in
Mr Osborne, an inability to comprehend
his subject matter clearly enough. Still,
it must be conceded that he does write
extraordinarily well over a short stretch.
Some of Luther’s monologues are splen-
did, and Tetzel’s spiel at the beginning of
the second act is a small malicious
masterpiece.
Wal Cherry’s production is effective
within the limits imposed by the in-
experience of his cast. Joe Sorbello as
Cajetan and Terry Donovan as Leo X
are both clearly out of their depth, and
some of the others are barely adequate.
David James, Jim Thompson and Bill
Griffiths are all good, and Tony Brown
relishes his opportunities as Tetzel.
George Whaley’s performance as Luther
is in a higher class altogether than any
of the others. Especially in the early
scenes, when he still has the play on his
side, he compels rapt attention. The
play moves well on the open stage, and
there is some skilled atmospheric light-
ing.
‘TFhe Desk Set” is a very plush and
A incredibly foolish American comedy.
It purports to deal with the impact of
automation on big business, but fails to
get within spitting distance of a real
idea. On the other hand, it never
manages to break loose sufficiently to
succeed as farce. There are, of course,
a few funny lines, perhaps enough to
satisfy somebody who has, literally,
nothing else to do.
The production, by George Fairfax, is
quite good. Dorothy Bradley, Penelope
Shelton and Simon Chilvers are the
best of a competent cast. John Truscott’s
set is brilliant.
JAMES MURPHY
BIZARRE BUT NO BEZAZZ
One Way Pendulum. N. F. Simpson.
Independent Theatre. Sydney.
The Mikado. Gilbert and Sullivan. Her
Majesty’s. Sydney.
A N entertainment that starts out by
presenting a character whose life-
work is training five hundred “speak-
your-weight” machines to sing Handel’s
“Hallelujah” chorus begins well on the
right side with this critic’s taste for
Goonery. Moreover, the play develops
well—the suburban family’s mum pays a
woman to come in and eat the family
food: “All this food keeps on arriving
and someone’s got to get rid of it.”
The father has a stand of parking
meters, from which apparently he earns
his income (though this point is not per-
fectly clear) by putting in sixpences and
getting his full money’s worth by standing
right through the legal limit of 30 minutes
for each coin.
Dad also is smuggling in a “Do It
Yourself Old Bailey” court set —which
when set up proceeds to try his son for
43 murders. The mass killings are be-
cause Son has a liking for wearing
mourning clothes, and he can’t wear
them, obviously, without a logical reason.
Hence the corpses.
It is then revealed that his whole
scheme for training the weighing
machines to sing Handel is to use the
heavy chorus as Sirens in the Arctic
Circle. With these remarkable sounds,
he hopes to lure millions of people to
the North Pole. Then, he hopes to get
them all to jump at the same instant,
thus altering the earth’s balance, bringing
a new Ice Age into England, and ensur-
ing himself a perpetual supply of corpses
to grieve over and wear black for. If
you’re still with me, we can agree that
there is certainly the stuff of much
comedy here —but it needs the quick-
firing guns of Messrs Sellers and Secombe
to bring it to life, to make it run for
cover as it should.
Sadly, Robert McDarra’s production
does not have the bravado and dazzle
that is needed. It is a pity, since he
has had the enterprise to attempt some-
thing out of the way, a good-humored
piece of nonsense with enough sinister
overtones to make the comedy stick.
By and large, though, it points out
once again that comedy is a style Sydney
actors and producers have to struggle for
very hard. Very few seem even to have
a glimmering of the truth—that Comedy
is the result of a marvellous excess of
life; a tremendous, irrepressible exuber-
ance; a bursting-out, a busted dam.
Comedy has all directions at once, the
players must face all ways simultane-
ously and forget all about the style of
drama.
Still there is some excellent playing in
“One Way Pendulum”—Max Osbiston,
Brian Tapply, Neva Carr Glyn, Ken
Hannam (though a little too much the
archetype of the self-effacer) and Olga
Yarad—one of the best eccentrics we’ve
seen for some time.
Independent’s fine designer, Michelle,
was set more pretty problems by this
crazy play; to her credit, she solved them
with wit and brilliance. For the sake
of this potentially very funny play, let
us hope producer McDarra can get a
real head of steam up, and fast.
HThe new production of The Mikado is
a shrewder thrust at the traditional-
ists than The Firm’s “Gondoliers” re-
viewed a few weeks back. Producer
Richard Campion has evidently got the
full measure of things now, and in his
“Mikado” has gone a lot further on the
way to a full revaluation of the Gilbert
and Sullivan data.
For this viewer, not raised in any tra-
dition of the right, D’Oyly Carte way of
doing things, the evening was a sheer
delight, and Mr Richard Wordsworth —
with now every word sharp and clear
must surely have laid down a brave new
definition of Ko-Ko, a concept so funny
and winning that if there is any justice
at all, his ought to become a world
standard.
Granted that other Ko-Kos may have
been smaller, and have sung Tit Willows
with true tenderness, I yet think that
Mr Wordsworth was superbly funny and
has completely justified his interpreta-
tion.
The singing generally was much better
in this production than in Gondoliers,
although the chorus, especially the
women’s is still unclear in articulation,
T>atrick White’s The Ham Funeral
A has been sadly mishandled by the
Elizabethan Theatre Trust. With near-
capacity houses (or so it is reported) the
play has been taken off, and it is also
rumored that the Trust will not be able
to arrange a Melbourne season. At the
moment the Trust stands solidly con-
demned.
KEVON KEMP


GOOD WOMAN, WICKED WORLD
The Good Woman of Setzuan. Bertolt
Brecht. University Dramatic Society.
Perth.
Though it is fashionable to debate
whether Brecht is a good dramatist
because of his dramatic theory or in spite
of it, it is also apropos to ask “Is he a
dramatist at all?” Humorless caricatures
act out a fleshless, deliberately illogical
plot. The audience is denied any re-
sponse save an objective, questioning
attitude with only one answer permitted
—that to blame fate, others or circum-
stances for our misfortunes is absurd.
In “The Good Woman of Setzuan” the
specific problem is the difficulty of living
a good life in a wicked world. The good
woman, whose “goodness” is demon-
strated by prodigal generosity with her
own and other people’s money, can only
survive in society by periodically assum-
ing the guise of her fictional cousin, a
hard-headed, unsentimental businessman.
As a good woman she is continually on
the brink of either bankruptcy or prison;
as the businessman making a great deal
of money by exploiting the poor, she is
a much respected member of the com-
munity. Appeals to the gods, changes in
circumstances only bring temporary relief
and we are ultimately drawn to the con-
clusion, aided by such pearls as “With
things as they are it is better to obey the
letter of the law first, and then the
spirit”, that she must first change her-
self before she can hope society to
change.
While Brecht may or may not be good
theatre, this production is good Brecht.
It was unreal, disjointed and formal.
Brecht held the upper hand and neither
production nor performances obtruded
which, though easier said than done, is as
it should be. In the principal roles June
Pollard as the Good Woman, Bruce
Williams as her friend the water-seller,
and Tom Reynolds as her lover gave
clearly defined and controlled perform-
ances. They were completely credible
while apparently rejecting identification
with their roles so that while we observed
and believed we never sympathised.
The remainder of this cast of nearly
thirty were all, surprisingly, uniformly
effective and in the limited acting area
of the Dolphin Theatre, Collin O'Brien
successfully moved and grouped them
without clumsiness or cluttering.
Mary Lord
ALLS FAIR IN LOVE AND SHAW
Arms and the Man. G. B. Shaw. Aus-
tralian National University Theatre
Group. Canberra.
IjpHis has always seemed to me a Shaw
1 play which has aged gracefully. The
play is still very much the thing, not the
thesis, and a very well-made play it is
too, in a contrary Shavian fashion. Then
Shaw is obviously delighted to have his
two favorite Aunt Sallys on stage
together Romance and the Army
and both of them, are still worth shying
at. Dramatists have been exposing the
foolishness of Romance for centuries,
but the habit still persists; and though
the Army is not what it was, it is still
enough of a sacred cow to be worth
attacking.
Yet Shaw’s tone is not strident. He
overturns illusions with a youthful high-
spiritedness, rare in his later plays. It
was this quality which the producer,
Marilyn Gordon, brought out well in the
ANU production. The all-student cast
played with an infectious enjoyment and
vitality; and as delivery, grouping and
movement were all good, and set and
costume, gay and imaginative, the audi-
ence could not fail to respond to the
comedy of Shaw’s situations and repartee.
The producer also showed wisdom in
pruning heavily certain aspects of the
play, especially the un-Romantic Truth
about picturesque Bulgaria.
So Michael Britten’s Bluntschli was
less than the superhumanly efficient
Shavian ideal, complete with sense of
humor; just as Stella Ford's Raina was
less than Shaw’s histrionic heroine, bal-
anced uncertainly between girlhood and
maturity, Western modernity and Bul-
garian Dark Ages. But both were well-
sustained and perceptive characterisa-
tions, which interested the audience in
their fate as human beings,
Similarly with Major Saranoff. Shaw’s
stage directions call for a super-Byronic
hero in whose manly breast a bewildering
array of tumultuous passions struggle for
dominance. Bruce McLaughlin’s perfor-
mance was also much less than that; but
who can blame him? Shaw does not
succeed in writing it all into the part,
But as a glamorous and moustachioed
poseur he added a great deal to the fun
and the color of the evening,
This entertaining production was not
reduced to mere comedy of situation.
Many of Shaw’s points went home, and
went deep enough for us to want to
answer back. Was he fair to make the
representatives of the Army such utter
fools? Wasn’t Bluntschli’s choice of a
wife dramatically convenient rather than
consistent with Shavian common sense?
(I don’t see Raina as much help in a
Swiss hotel) Would Louka . . .? This
“Arms and the Man” does made us ask
questions as well as laueh. so Shaw’s in-
tention has come through.
HOPE HEWITT
MUSIC
FAR OUT
I.S.C.M. Recital. Cell Block Theatre,
Sydney.
r PHE Sydney branch of the International
Society for Contemporary Music
bears its title more or less by courtesy,
since although it was founded more than
six years ago it has not yet flourished
sufficiently to pay its affiliation fee to
the international body. Nor, it must be
admitted, have its recitals always lived
up to the rigorous standards of con-
temporaneity set by the ISCM in its
European festivals.
But last weekend, in a truly historic
recital at the Cell Block Theatre, Darl-
inghurst, it finally lifted a corner of the
curtain on the far-out experiments in
composition that have been going on in
other parts of the world since World
War 11, but have so far been inaudible
to Sydney concert goers.
The unexpectedly large audience that
was intrepid enough to go along was
soon aware of one of the reasons why
it had taken so long to bring this music
to public performance here. Its tech-
nical complexities are so terrifying that
only the most accomplished professionals
could dare face them; and the accom-
plished professionals, unfortunately, are
usually the last people to be interested
in anything of such specialised appeal as
this.
For this recital the Society was lucky
enough to have the combination of
Gordon Watson, the Australian pianist
who has made a reputation abroad as a
performer of contemporary music, and
Peter Richardson, a Sydney flautist who
combines high technical skill with an
adventurous taste in music.
They collaborated in the 1954 Sona-
tine for Flute and Piano by Pierre
Boulez (who, with Karl-Heinz Stock-
hausen, is one of the most-mentioned
members of the avant garde). It hurled
at the audience a continuous, exhausting
flurry of sound music which sweeps
aside every norm of tonality, harmony,
counterpoint rhythm and formal struc-
ture as they would have been understood
by any composer before, say, 1925, and
substitutes a new, empirical musical
language. The bases of this new
language are often immensely complex,
carrying the mathematical approach of
Schoenberg and his disciples to the nth
degree. It is far too complex, in fact,
ever to be perceived by the listener in
music of such impetus, and presumably
that is not the intention. But in per-
formance this Boulez work builds a
distinct feeling of unitv (even tending
to monotony) and an impressive sense
of purpose which often seems to be
lacking in extremist music.
The other recent work in the pro-


gramme, though it produced some
fascinatingly bizarre sounds, did lack
this sense of purpose. This was the 1958
“Interpolation” (subtitled “A Mobile for
Flute”) by Swiss composer Roman
Haubenstock-Ramati. Though literally
for one flute it is three-part music, two
of the parts being prerecorded on tape
by the performer. The “score” (about
the size of a small handbill) consists of
about a dozen separate phrases con-
nected by a pattern of dotted lines. The
performer plays the phrases in any one
of a number of suggested orders, choos-
ing the order himself.
The result is admittedly odd, rather
like the twittering of an aviary of birds.
Most listeners were prepared to admit,
as a starting point, that it was not
actively unpleasant.
Music of this sort brings to an
audience not only new sounds but new
sights. It was unusual to see individual
page-turners called into service for both
flautist and pianist in the unresting
Boulez sonatina, more so to see the
flautist “accompanied” by a rather self-
conscious-looking tape recorder operator,
or to see the player carefully hang a
stopwatch on the music stand before
beginning.
The sort of difficulty that lies in the
way of presenting this music was illu-
strated by the work that was not played.
Peter Richardson was to have performed
Bruno Maderna’s “Music in Two Dimen-
sions”, which has a written-out flute
part to be accompanied by an electronic-
music tape supplied by the composer.
The music turned up in time for the
concert but the tape did not. Someone
speculated that it was being pored over
by baffled Security men.
MARTIN LONG
WASTED ON THE TAWDRY
Fourth Subscription Concert. Mel-
bourne Town Hall.
Tn one way this was the most disappoint-
ing of the year’s orchestral concerts.
The quality of performance was very
good indeed, but the major works on
the programmes hardly warranted an in-
tercontinental visit from a conductor of
the stature of Jascha Horenstein.
Within the limits set down by our
isolation, it has been possible to recog-
nise for some years past the fact that
Horenstein is an unusually interesting
conductor. His career began in the early
twenties, and apparently he has made a
point of conducting the kind of music
which is barely on the fringe of our
local programmes Bruckner, Mahler,
Liszt are examples.
I first read his name on the labels of
an early electric Polydor recording of
the Seventh Symphony of Bruckner,
issued around 1928 or 1929. Apart from
the Ormandy recording, never easily
available in Australia, this performance
of Horenstein’s still remains the only
one which gives a decent account of
this noble work.
Each of Horenstein’s new 7 recordings
(and they are few enough) increased my
respect for his name, and I was delight-
ed to see him billed as one of this year’s
visitors. Dismay was all the greater when
the numbers went up, and I found he
was playing hte Domestic Symphony of
Richard Strauss, and the poor F minor
Symphony of Tchaikovsky.
Though it is possible to give a good
performance of the Strauss, the Tchai-
kovsky shows little or nothing of a con-
ductor’s talents. One may only observe
aspects of his technique; and what was
notable about this performance was the
clear and unflagging beat, which was
driven by a great vitality. All the cues
were simple and direct, and there was
a careful attention to dynamics, with a
particularly tender concern for the wind
band, although now and again one of
the players may have found his tempo
a little uncomfortable.
All in all, there was every technical
indication that Horenstein could have
given us a very memorable evening, if
only it had been possible for him to play
Liszt or Bruckner instead of this tawdy
music. His conducting was very much
livelier and more exciting than van
Otterloo's performance in the previous
concert, which was to my ear dull and
painstaking.
KENNETH HINCE
ART
A DIVIDEND FROM RESTRAINT
Frederic Bates. Moreton Galleries.
Brisbane.
Kenneth Hood. Johnstone Gallery.
Brisbane.
jpREDERic Bates who has won three
local and two trade organisation
prize competitions between 1954 and
1960 shows 22 watercolors and 5 oils all
very competently done. His watercolors
are fluently painted. He uses two dis-
tinct techniques. His polychromatic divi-
sionist technique, particularly for street
scenes full of people, has a very gay
effect. The wide spectrum of these pic-
tures is attractive, as in a presentation
of a King’s Cross street which renders the
spirit of the place. The other style con-
sists of very broad sweeps of single color,
usually a pale cool green of willows in
a broad landscape inhabited by horses.
One well-executed work in this style,
“Autumn Storm Approaching” shows
horses in attitudes of panic. The oils are
solid and correct.
This kind of rigorous correctness has
been for a long time now very common
in Australian art and though there must
be hundreds of acres of it done yearly
nobody can deny it has its simple and
obvious attractions, both aesthetic and
economic. Bates’s is not great art but
very pleasant and easy to live with, at
least for a time.
ITood is a very good and original paint-
er who shows 27 landscapes and
still life. The style is unpretentious but
firm and solid, deeply impressive because
of its austerity and restraint, its refusal
to make any attempt at meretricious
appeal. And what does secure approval
is Hood’s knowledge of how to put on
paint. His palette is very restricted: I
have never seen any other work so spare
of effect and so economical of color,
everything being in white and pale grey
with darker overtones subtly dabbed in
to break up the high light that pervades
all the work along with stretches of pale
green that give a total effect of simple
magic. The paint is put on in a rather
light impasto with variation of the forms
suggested by the diverse orientation of
the brushwork. With all its austerity, it
is very clever. Hood is fond of barren
landscapes strewn with boulders of
various shapes and sizes suggested simply
by variations of tone of his whites and
greys; they are not attractive pictures in
the ordinary way but cleverly managed
for all that. His still life has beautiful
simplicity and arrangement that is so
good as to look inevitable. “Still Life and
the Sea” is as good a painting as I have
seen in a long time: a white vase and a
pale orange scarf on a grey-topped table
with the pale green sea in the back-
ground.
Hood is a most unusual painter; his
control, his restraint, his austerity and
his power to render the subtlest varia-
tions of light and shade from a palette
restricted to white and green indicates
an artist of immense skill and fine in-
tegrity.
J. V. DUHIG


THE RED PAGE
BLACK AND WHITE MAN
By LES TANNER
Australian Artist in South East Asia.
Bruce Petty. Grayflower. 635.
IThis is a beautiful book and it is all
A one man’s work. Bruce Petty
designed it, drew it and wrote the text.
It is the first book published by Gray-
flower Publications and is about as good
a piece of book production as you will
see for a while. The introduction is by
Ronald Searle. The fly leaf will tell you
that Petty is 33, lives in Melbourne,
contributes to Punch, Spectator, New
Yorker, Saturday Review, Esquire and
has appeared in Graphis, and more
people than is good will say who the hell
is Petty? Editors look blank, journalists
scratch, fellow artists think he used to
draw pin-ups. The unfortunate fact is
that in his own country he is virtually
unknown outside of a fairly limited
group of people. He is probably unique
in not being hailed as “Another of our
black and white men who made good
overseas” for the simple reason that very
few people connect his work with any-
thing “Australian”—he is not exactly a
Gunn’s Gully man. His work is esteemed
much more in London and New York
where originality is less of a vice than
it is here. His drawings are apparently
so alien to us that I recently had the
experience of opening a contributed joke
in his presence to find that the con-
tributor had submitted one of Petty’s
own Punch jokes confident in the belief
that the style would be completely new.
It is typical of Petty that he genuinely
complimented the forger on his pen
technique. Not all plagiarists are so
unlucky.
The book is the result of a four
months tour of South-East Asia. He
makes no pretence to anything more
than a surface examination of the
countries he visited but has tried to
understand that surface not like those
who can see in unknown faces only
confirmation of their prejudices (what
lies behind that inscrutable face-splitting
grin?). He has with pen and patience
diagrammed children who, too poor for
dolls, play with babies instead, drawn
the fantastic absurdities of improvised
machinery and understood the political
implications of such improvising. For
those who can only see a vast yellow
generalisation called Asia, he particular-
ises the differences between Bali and
Bangkok, between policemen and army
officer, between poor and poorer.
“People face questions like these: What
does that family planning notice mean?
What happened to that political fellow?
Will this baby die like the last one? What
are those foreign soldiers here for? Why
were we laid off for three weeks? Where
can I get some American dollars? . . .
Who are these Borneo people we are
merging with?”
The drawings move naturally and
easily in and out of comedy, the jagged
swiftness of a cock fight, the hilarity
of kids hamming up poses, the serious-
ness of Buddha’s engraved feet so that
comic and serious become less and less
imposed states of mind of the artist and
more and more the result of what was
observed and a desire to explain it. His
cartoon characters appear more in the
role of footnotes to the main drawings
or as occasional diagrams of national
or social relationships.
Searle speaks of Petty “writing his
ideas on paper” and the description is
accurate. Like much good drawing
there is a real affinity with calligraphy.
Searle also states the case for Petty’s
originality pretty bluntly: “In the world
of graphic art, promising young artists
are rare. Occasionally a spark of
originality pops from the smouldering
dump of pseudo Steinbergs and Fran-
cois’. But more often than not it fizzles
out again into dullness, or formula, to
join the steady stream of trudging
comics.
“Amongst the few new arrivals
exhibiting more than the mere ability
to lift a pen in a previously prepared
direction, is Bruce Petty”.
Now words like that set most artists
reaching for their defence mechanisms —-
who hasn’t been influenced? It’s natural
for youngsters to be excited by heady
new overseas styles and techniques, and
other comforting phrases. Only the
nagging thought remains. Where does
influence stop and plagiarism begin?
(or is it only our competitors who
plagiarise?) But while we are busy re-
touching the sign over The Home of
Black and White Art, perhaps we should
consider the implications of the fact that
the work most readily saleable in this
country is a kind of lukewarm porridge
of styles predigested by overseas maga-
zines. It would be really ironic if Petty
made his impact on Australia in this
way.


HELP
LEGACY
all the year round.
Donations: 169 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney. 8M2001.°
ROBBED OF SELF
An Excursion to Heaven. Grozdana
Olujic. Hodder Sc Stoughton. 15s.
6d.
The Tiger of Gold. Robin Jenkins.
Macdonald. 20s.
Tn fiction, period is more important than
A place. Across all national divisions
the spirit of the time prevails, so that
there is no reason to be surprised when
a Yugoslav student produces a first novel
which could as easily have been written
in Paris or New York, though probably
not in Sydney.
American critics have hailed “An Ex-
cursion to Heaven” as a literary bomb-
shell, a novel worthy of Camus. It’s an
exaggeration, but there is no doubt that
they read Camus in Belgrade. It is also
not true, as has been suggested, that
Grozdana Olujic’s penetrating and dis-
turbing self-analysis in the form of first-
person, fictionalised reportage is un-
political. One cannot write like Camus
and be unpolitical, but politics does not
begin and end with Djilas. In one sense
this is a highly political book, with
freedom as its theme. The only question
is—what kind of freedom?
Minja, a student, is the narrator. In
125 pages she unmasks herself as a girl
trying to find her generation in a world
where all seems chaos. Faith begins with
faith in Self, and because she has been
robbed of this she has been robbed of
everything, above all of the power to
love. We find her promising marriage
to an eager, somewhat conservative,
somewhat nondescript older man, and
actually setting out to tell her people
the news. She might as well marry him
as someone else . . . she is the stronger
but her soul is empty.
Then, casually, in the students’ dining
room, another man comes into her life:
Nenad. Her betrothed is forgotten. She
becomes pregnant by Nenad, and at first
refuses to have the child. Nenad is as
strong as Minja, yet with more wisdom,
because he has hope. He dies in an acci-
dent, but the girl’s lost life is found and
rescued from despair.
These are the bare bones; they do not
convey the quality of the work which, if
falteringly, achieves real pathos, even in
an obviously self-conscious translation.
The story is rich in incident, seemingly
unrelated but in fact important. As flash-
back follows flash-back, to return always
to a present-time background of student
life free-wheeling in nothingness, Minja
tells of her childhood under the Germans
and the Partisans, of her brother, her
father’s suicide, of a man who once
loved her and for whom she carries
guilt. All the same, this is not just one
more essay in alienation. It is a brutally
but poetically frank, not at all ill-con-
structed novel about the meaning of love
in a time like ours, and it convinces by.
its very faults, especially the “nervous-
ness” which informs it but which still
remains controlled. What finally comes
to mind is not Camus but a film “Hiro-
shima Mon Amour”. If you got some-
thing from this film, you will get much
from this book.
Robin Jenkins’ “The Tiger of Gold”
is the work of a tried professional, which
is no attack on its integrity and charm.
As good as his “Dust on the Paw,” and
again with a largely Indian setting, it
makes do with a deceptive slight story:
a Scots girl’s deep infatuation for a
young, westernised but, alas, not quite
sufficiently westernised, Maharajah.
Sheila’s virtue remains unhappily intact,
but her torments are not to be taken
lightly.
Very well told through the person of
the heroine, “The Tiger of Gold” is a
peripheral but genuinely witty contri-
bution to one branch of Anglo-Indian
fiction. The minor characters, Americans,
are handled with gusto, and the journey
through India with them in quest of
Chandra has the tenderness and cruelty
of true comedy.
DAVID MARTIN
ON THE SURFACE
God and the Soviets. Constantin de
Grunwald. Hutchinson. 30s.
Two years ago, a cartoon on the front
cover of the Soviet humorous maga-
zine “Crocodile” depicted three young
people, obviously minor local officials,
praying before an icon for God to send
at least one anti-religious lecturer to the
district. The cartoon was directed against
the slackness with which regional authori-
ties were carrying on the propaganda
campaign against religion.
Mr de Grunwald, reviewing articles in
the Soviet Press attacking religion, singles
out this cartoon as a good illustration of
the tone of Soviet anti-religious propa-
ganda at present which it is but
unfortunately misinterprets it, taking it as
a hint that anti-religious lecturers tend
to turn people, not away from the
churches, but back to them. And Mr
de Grunwald, distinguished historian as
he is, similarly misinterprets, as a whole,
the evidence he puts before the reader
in this book.
“God and the Soviets” is the result of
a special trip to the Soviet Union in
1960. Superficially at least, the author's
method seems sound: chapters covering
the historical background; the Church
and the Revolution; a survey of the
Press; the views, first of the government
officials responsible for church affairs,
then of leading churchmen; and the
author’s own observations. Below the
surface, however, he fails to go. Report-
ing conversations with government offi-
cials, he passes over instances of evident
duplicity, as in the misleading statement
by one that no mention is made of re-
ligious belief in any questionnaire dis-
tributed by the Party (the practice of
any religion is, of course, generally held
to be incompatible with Party member-
ship). The clergymen he interviewed all
took understandable pains to stress the
good relations they enjoyed with the
civil authorities and the protection af-
forded to their activities, but none of
them touched on the questions which the
non-Russian observer would like to put
to them: how, for example, can churches
do their work properly when thev cannot
even hold Bible classes for children? Or
how, in Soviet conditions, do young
people receive the call to become
priests?
Nor do the author’s own observa-
tions go beyond the common impressions
of crowded churches, congregations of
old people, and immense fervour. There
are empty churches in the Soviet Union;
there are young people who attend ser-
vices; and perhaps surprisingly, there are
people who go to church because it is
the “done thing”. The answer to our
questions, and to the wider problem of
the balance of religion and irreligion in
Russia, may lie more in these less studied
aspects of the Church in Russia.
Mr de Grunwald’s conclusions about
the churches’ future in Soviet Russia
are relatively sanguine. However, one
can gather from his material that the
Soviet Government’s attitude to religion
is this: let the old people go to church,
we have no objection; but we will do our
utmost to draw young people away from
the churches. Given the vast power of
the Soviet State over its subjects, can
one really hope that the churches of
Russia will regain any influence? Or
in Mr de Grunwald’s terms, can we en-
visage the Soviet society of the future as
a synthesis of Communism and Christi-
anity?
ROSH IRELAND


A SAUCEY SURVEY
Larousse Gastronomique. Paul Ham-
lyn. 120 s.
Larousse Gastronomique” demon-
strates beyond doubt what probably
everyone admits anyway, that good food
is foreign food. We have grown used to
distinguishing between food and good
food. Food is what one finds on the hoof
or in the ground and prepares by burning
or saturating. Good food is what appears
under foreign credentials in a restaurant.
Admittedly one still hears talk of good
home cooking in the old style (curiously
enough in Australia it has always stayed
at home), cooking that was plain, copious
and nourishing, but well done. By now,
however, it is pretty much all talk. An
Australian meal is no longer copious,
and in a perverse way no longer plain.
The single dish is apt to be strangely
garnished, like salad with banana, and
is inevitably followed by a party-time
sweet with instant coffee. In my experi-
ence, the only supreme achievement of
the old style that remains is the sponge,
which for all its merits will simply not
serve as a foundation stone for a national
kitchen. Certainly it would not provide
enough material for a monumental en-
cyclopaedia of the stature of “Larousse
Gastronomique”, in which it rates only
one of the thousand odd pages.
It is in fact a tantalising exercise to
devise what might be included in La-
rousse under the heading “Australian
kitchen”, if the great authority deigned
to notice its existence. I remember an
Olympic Games brochure in 1956 which
gave Sydney rock oysters as the chief
gastronomic attraction of Melbourne. It
happens that Port Phillip Bay is one of
the three select waters in the world where
sardines are found in the state of nature,
but this was not mentioned, for the very
good reason of course that fresh sardines,
though cheap and delicious, are almost
impossible to buy. I notice in another
tourist enticer that Sydney’s specialities
are again rock oysters, lobsters, Barra-
mundi, John Dory, and kangaroo tail
soup. The soup obviously is prepared,
but what would one say about the fish?
Raw, fried or grilled? The only safe way
to these national dishes would be to
follow the blurb further and go to one
of the recommended restaurants, all of
which are foreign.
The whole of “Larousse Gastrono-
mique” will be found completely foreign.
We may pretend perhaps to some know-
ledge of French food from our travels or
our dining out. We may even take it as
an indication of growing interest in the
welfare of our bellies that such a large
and expensive compendium should ap-
pear in English. Or we may resort to
the standard highbrow sneers at the
“Costa Brava Australian”, the “Elizabeth
LAROUSSE
GASTRONOMiaUE
6
TkttM l§srMc& feaggftg*
tia wwte miSrnmtf m UM,. «tt» ss&.M%
■■■'.■ / 0
David phase” and the like, to prove that
solemn good sense will out.
But I doubt that we will ever grasp
the mentality which accepts as normal
that the country’s most serious publishers
should add an encyclopaedia of food
to its vast list of standard references. We
do not in any case have the Frenchman’s
dedication to encyclopaedic knowledge,
much less his devotion to the board. I
doubt, too, that many will grasp some of
the basic assumptions of the work. Most
of the 8500 recipes take a soundly equip-
ped kitchen for granted, and ingredients
which, though fundamental and easily
obtainable here, are seldom found in
our grill, roast and boil rooms. Even the
assumption that so many recipes are
possible, more than could be eaten in a
lifetime without a single repetition, would
strike most as preposterous. And above
all the sense that food has some local
identity, some quality that gives each
town and region a special distinction,
that is both a product of and a contribu-
tion to the local temperament, will be
found quite foreign. It is this quality
too which probably makes a dish unique
and incapable of reproduction. One must
ultimately adapt and devise one’s own
dishes, and this I think we will never do.
The last time I went to Sydney I could
find no fish in Wodonga, but had to go
three hundred miles further north to get
some Murray Cod.
The virtues and defects of “Larousse
Gastronomique” are largely those of any
good encyclopaedia. Everything is there;
the question is to find it. Gastronomes
will find fuel under Aphorisms and
Axioms, and the articles on national
kitchens, some of which have unhappily
been edited of their chauvinism in this
translation (Talleyrand’s observation for
example that the English have an infinity
of religions and only one sauce, while
the French but one religion and a thous-
and sauces, has been cut). Historians
will find a wealth of social background,
and lovers of the exotic, if their taste runs
to it, can find out whether crocodiles are
edible or try the twenty-seven ways of
cooking calf's head. It contains also the
simplest of recipes and discourses on the
humblest food. It cannot, of course, be
picked up an hour beforehand to work
out tonight's menu, but if you have a
cabbage before you, and time enough not
to reduce it to slop, Larousse can suggest
ten alternatives. In short, it is the standard
work on what we here generally regard
as a sub-standard subject.
BILL HANNAN
THE BUGABOO SEARCH
The Image. Daniel J. Boorstin.
Weidenfeld & Nicolson. 375. 3d.
First Hand Report. Sherman Adams.
Hutchinson. 555. 9d.
main drawback for any writer
A diagnosing the malaise of the
present is our inadequate knowledge of
the past. The time always seems to be
out of joint. Just as the Goldsmiths and
the Cobbetts deplored the agrarian and
industrial changes of their era while
idealising the past, so the doom-croakers
of today have often found their bugaboos
in power-elites, hidden persuaders and
organisation men without facing the
problem of what HAS been, let alone
what CAN be. A national soul-search is
no substitute for historical research.
However, this point made, one must
concede that jeremiads have their
function and can rouse us to the
realities or, as Professor Boorstin would
prefer it, the “unrealities” of our con-
dition.
Boorstin in quite a striking, at times
aphoristic, fashion analyses some of the
effects of the Graphic Revolution on
American life. He sees his countrymen
living in a haze of “pseudo-events”,
where images are more identifiable than
reality. Business corporations, television,
Hollywood, the tabloids, government
departments purvey an illusory view of
life which is undermining American
idealism. A kind of Gresham’s law
operates whereby genuine happenings
are driven from circulation by the
counterfeit. To witness an edited, tele-
vised version of a political convention is
more thrilling than to be there. In fact,
if you like, you can be there and still
watch it on TV —and that is much more
exciting. It’s all rather like the Aus


traiian football fan who takes his tran-
sistor to the match to hear what’s going
on.
Boorstin defines a “pseudo-event” as
one that has been “planned, planted or
incited” so that it will be reported.
“Typically, it is not a train wreck or
an earthquake, but an interview”. Its
“reality” is less important than its
“newsworthiness”: its inherent interest
therefore resides in its ambiguity, and it
usually takes the form of a “seif-fulfill-
ing prophecy”. Senator McCarthy well
understood the value of the pseudo-
event. When his fertile imagination
failed him he would call a morning
Press conference to which reporters
flocked with a Pavlovian promptness,
only to be told that he would have
revelations that afternoon. This was
enough to make headlines in the after-
noon papers. If he had nothing in the
afternoon, it was because “documents”
or “witnesses” were missing. And so the
morning deadline: “Delay seen in Mc-
Carthy case Mystery witness being
sought”.
Examples of self-deception are gleaned
from so wide a field —there are thirty
odd pages of annotated bibliography
alone—and the indictment is piled so
high, that one becomes sceptical that
so many people (or at least the in-
telligentsia for whom Professor Boorstin
is really writing), are being so well and
truly fooled for so much of the time.
And when it comes to remedies, Boorstin
has nothing palpable to offer: “Each of
us must disenchant himself, must
moderate his expectations, must prepare
himself to receive messages from the
outside. . .We should not try to
persuade others to share our illusions.
. . . There is no cure. There is only
the opportunity for discovery. For this
the New World gave us a grand, unique
beginning”. At the end of a most valu-
able bibliography in what is a probing
but not a profound book, Boorstin says
of the authors of “The Ugly American”:
“The authors criticise us for not doing
better what we are already (but in my
opinion should not be) trying to do,
instead of asking whether we might not
better be trying to do something else”.
This is ironical comins from one who
has shirked the major issue.
Sherman Adams’ “First Hand Re-
port” is, however, about real events. In
an illustrated report on the Eisenhower
administration, one expects photographs
of fishing trips and golf matches and
Mamie’s picnics at Camp David, as well
as of Cabinet meetings and rendezvous
with the great. The interesting thing
about Adams in these pictures is the
suavity and aplomb with which he
always seemed to be conducting him-
self, and this is borne out by his bland
reportage. One would be disappointed
to find that it had been “ghosted”.
The book is sub-titled “The Inside
Story of the Eisenhower Administration”,
but “inside” signifies a point-of-view
rather than “hitherto Unpublished revela-
tions”. Nor is it a personal square-off
for his having accepted the famous
vicuna coat and having to leave Wash-
ington in rather ignominious circum-
stances, although a chapter is devoted to
this. Adams is an unwavering admirer
of Eisenhower and seems more intent on
straightening the record than anything
else.
Nothing dramatic emerges. One
would have expected some agonising re-
appraisal after the sputnik was launched
in 1957, but less than two pages tell of
the redirection of funds to space re-
search. As for the American part in the
Suez fiasco, it is narrated either naively
or disingenuously; the savagery of
Nasser’s apostrophe, “Americans, may
you choke to death on your fury”, is
scarcely accounted for, nor is there a
hint of any US manoeuvres behind the
back of the canal users. However, it
is a valuable account of a crucial
Presidency.
JAMES GRIFFIN
HOW TO BE CORRUPT
AII Those in Favour? The E. T. U.
Trial. C. H. Rolph. Andre Deutsch.
7s 6d.
/Ane of the remaining myths in Aus-
traiian society is that unions are
democratic but, in fact, by their nature
they tend to be authoritarian. In many
unions the annual or quarterly members’
meeting is just a game union officials
play to conform to the rules and to keep
up the belief that the union is under
rank-and-file control. Few attend such
meetings and very often the test of a
successful secretary is whether or not
he can “get a sufficient roll up” for a
quorum and also to ensure that any op-
position group will not reverse his policy.
The decisions offered to the rank-and-file
for endorsement require expert know-
ledge of industrial law or award-making
procedure usually beyond the members’
competence so they are forced to rely
on their secretaries’ judgment.
In short, the unions are normally run
by the full-time officials. But naive
democrats usually argue that members
still retain control by their votes at
election time. In practice it is just not so.
If the professional unionist decides to
remain in office there is very little that
the members can do within the structure
of the union itself to remove him. If
a financially, or ideologically, corrupt
union official juggles union rules or fakes
union ballots, members are powerless
within the union; they must go to the
courts to remove him.
“All Those in Favour” tells the story
of the greatest known fraud in British
trade union history. It is a skilfully
abridged account of the proceedings in the
British High Court against the Electrical
Trades Union and its officials for ballot-
rigging. With 241,000 members, the ETU
is Britain’s seventh largest union and
until last year Communist Fartv members
in the union (one per cent, or 2000) kept
themselves in office by fraud. One of
the many interesting points this case
reveals is that although the union ap-
pears to be run and controlled through
its system of local branches they actually
assisted the fraud and helped the Com-
munist officials disguise what was going
on. The salient point, however, is that
the courageous members who were res-
ponsible for getting rid of the frauds
were forced to go to the British High
Court; within the union they were power-
less.
The fact that an ex-Communist played
such a large part in exposing the corrup-
tion highlights the absence in Australian
trade union affairs of the many thousands
of people who have left the Communist
Party since 1945. With the exception of
ex-Communists like Geoff McDonald and
Bert Chandler from the Building
Workers’ Industrial Union, most of the
ex-Communist trade union officials and
members are too busy with their psycho-
logical rehabilitation therapy or are
so intent on not being “McCarthyist”
that they have completely withdrawn
from union affairs. Perhaps the least
they can do for their “mates” is to
demonstrate, from their own experience,
that Communist trade union officials are
bound to take the “advice” of the Com-
munist Party in the running of the union.
Australians have not much to learn
from Britain when it comes to corrupt
practices in unions, but at least our
unionists are gradually accepting inde-
pendently conducted ballots whereas in
Britain there is no such protection even
when officials have repeatedly rigged
results.
PETER KELLY


The Wild
Cat Pages and
THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
MANUFACTURING SURVEY
CONFIRMS GAINS
Tt was all too tempting and far too
-*■ glib to treat the Survey of Manufact-
uring Activity in Australia as just an-
other play in the battledore and shuttle-
cock allegedly taking place between the
Department of Trade and the Treasury.
Put out last week by Trade, and thus
adding meritoriously to pre-Budget eva-
luation of the economy, the survey drew
especial attention by the concluding
sentence in its general report.
“Despite the over-all improvement and
further gains forecast, manufacturers
generally felt hesitant that conditions
within the present recovery would be
likely to sustain a continuance of rapid
growth,” that ultimate sentence read.
Now the backstairs gossips, who have
largely fostered an over-lurid picture
of Trade-Treasury rivalries, were quick
to seize upon such summing-up as
Trade’s blow for expansiveness against
Treasury’s stern advocacy of stability.
These departmental differences are real-
ly part of the stuff of politics, resolved
bv the processes of Cabinet Government.
The Budget may be taken as one possible
resolution.
Yet in case the re-establishment of
business morale be laid only at the feet
of Government, we may recall also a
sentence from the National Bank’s June
summary: “The adoption of a more
optimistic outlook by industry based
upon its longer-term prospects would be
most helpful at this juncture, as the
exercise of some boldness with respect
to capital expenditure would soon bring
real results in the form of an all-
round enlargement of demand, buying
power, and employment.”
The Department of Trade's survey
pointed very plainly to an obvious
measure of industrial recovery, though
some expectations for further improve-
ment in the immediate future sounded
a little muted. “From the low point of
activity in mid-1961, recovery in out-
put in the industries surveyed was under
way by October, 1961.”
Again, “by March. 1962. a substantial
over-all gain in output had taken place
compared with March. 1961. With a
10 per cent improvement in sales, stocks
of both finished goods and materials
and components were also much closer
to normal than a year ago.”
In employment lay the most dis-
couraging note in the survey: “Despite
higher output levels in March, 1962,
compared with March, 1961, employ-
ment showed little change. At least
part of the explanation for this was
that at no stage in 1961 did employ-
ment fall by as much as output. There-
fore, when output began to recover in
the latter months of 1961. manufacturers
did not find it necessary to increase
their employment proportionately . . .
Manufacturers forecast that their
employment would rise above March,
1962, levels by nearly three per cent
by August, 1962.”
A largish 32 out of 47 industries
covered believe their 1961-62 capital
expenditure will be beneath 1960-61.
Since February, when Government
capital investment and other benefits
were initiated, 11 per cent of firms
embarked on new investment or speeded
up existing programmes. “On the other
hand, six per cent had discontinued or
slowed down their investment within the
same period.”
CITY DIARY
HThe recently formed zinc and lead
development associations have
moved quickly to the appointment of
strong and able chairmen. Both bodies
were registered in Melbourne only on
July 3 to promote use of the respective
metals. They are now seeking a joint
general manager.
As chairman of the Australian Zinc
Development Association comes Mr J. A.
Bult. He is a director and joint general
manager of Electrolytic Zinc of A’asia
and also an associate director of Metal
Manufacturers.
The Australian Lead Development
Association has found its chairman in
Mr J. B. Shackell, managing director of
Broken Hill Associated Smelters, and a
director of E. Z. Industries, Metal Manu-
facturers and Atlas Assurance.
With the two commodities battling a
complicated overseas position, promotion
demands every bit of drive and energy.
/Alder Melburnians may soon be forced
to notice a changed prospect as they
walk out of Flinders Street station. The
Mutual Store, quite a landmark, pro-
poses to shut many sections, confining
itself to food and liquor, and to let space
for offices.
Rumor has it that the enterprise is ripe
for reorganisation. This comes with a
bang, for changes should be ready for
Christmas. They also embrace a modern
arcade-type shopping centre with separate
shops available for tenants. Upper floors
are to be turned into offices as well.
COLIN STREET
INDEX
Manufacturing Survey .... 41
City Diary .... 41
Editorial—After the Budget . . 42
More Money for Housing? 43
Economics Anonymous .... 44, 45
Death of a Genius .... 46, 47
Investment Section .... 48 -50
C.S.R. Analysis 51
Behind the Balance Sheets 52, 53
Oil Searches .... 54
Share Market Summary .... 56
One to Buy 57
Speculator’s Diary 58
Man on the Land .... 60 s 61


Editorial
AFTER THE BUDGET
rro have gone for a bigger Budget
3 deficit at this stage, when economic
is annoyingly slow, would
have pleased many angry young men
in the business world who feel
frustrated that spending stimulants
have so far failed to whip up business
confidence sufficiently to put the
economy back firmly on the road of
industrial expansion.
But the Treasurer has had to be
careful in playing the role of central
income generator. He has to keep a
keen eye on the prospects for higher
income generation from sources
within the private sector when
gauging the right degree of new
money creation from Government
sources. Above all he wants to avoid
a situation in which he has all sources
of income generation madly stoking
the fires of business activity at the
same time. This is a time for him to
be piling on fuel from his own stacks
with the idea of laying off when fires
are burning brightly from spontaneous
combustion.
It was to be expected that the
seasonal dullness of the winter period
would dampen business activity in the
two months or so before the Budget,
but, judging by the sterling per-
formance of production in the winter,
there was no reason for the Treasurer
to think that income generation from
the production activities of industry
will fail to do an increasing share
of the re-employment job for him
when spring comes along. And after
all, this is the source of income
generation which, since the great up-
surge in manufacturing activity after
the war, has gone to the forefront of
prosperity propellants.
Its proportionate contribution to
the national income increased strongly
all through the 19505. This was
harshly demonstrated when manu-
facturing activity declined during the
recession, leading to lower levels of
national income at a time when the
country’s export income, which used
to have a much bigger influence on
national income, was particularly
buoyant. (Exports were at an all time
high in 1961-62).
It cannot be disputed that income
generated by factory production is in
these days the chief arbiter of pros-
perity. Having achieved pride of
place among income generators, we
are all the more dependent on it for
the wide range of tertiary employ-
ments on which full employment and
labor absorption are becoming in-
creasingly reliant.
Thus as factory employment con-
tinues to rise, the Treasurer will have
progressively less a burden to bear in
the field of primary income genera-
tion. The upward movement of pro-
duction has so far owed less than one
might have expected to stock build-
ing, which is itself a reflection of the
timidity still in evidence in future
ordering, particularly in the retail
field. This indicates that in the event
of a spurt in spring buying, industrial
production could rise very sharply
and give the long awaited upsurge in
income generation from manufactur-
ing industry. All the signs point to
this.
A s for industrial investment, which
is the second string in manu-
facturing industry’s bow of income
generation, it is early yet to predict a
strong upward movement. Certainly
the Treasurer has played all his
trumps in this direction and it is up
to industry itself to grasp the nettle.
Perhaps the best assurance that it
will soon do so lies in the high
prospect ahead for industrial produc-
tion itself. For once manufacturers
begin to feel the strain of overloaded
production on the present production
capacity, they will undoubtedly turn
their attention to expansion of their
fixed capital assets, buildings, plant
and equipment. When that happens
on a broad front the Treasurer will
be able to retire from the field of
new money creation.
To speed on that desirable event,
it still seems that we are letting
opportunity slip by in not doing more
through lower interest rates, as well
as by making more finance available
for housing.
The Australian Industries Develop-
ment Association (AIDA) has, in a
timely report on this subject during
the week, stressed the need for getting
as much as <£6o million more for
housing and making it available at
lower interest rates. It would be sheer
bad timing if such steps had to wait
until other sources of income genera-
tion got fully into their stride and we
faced a repetition of an all-round
strain on resources such as was
experienced in 1960.
One would have thought that with
a revival in industrial investment
probably less imminent than one
would hope, the case for giving a
strong shot in the arm to housing was
irrefutable. It has to be remembered
that among the industries which con-
tributed most to the increase in
industrial investment during the record
1956-1960 period are some of those
at present suffering from the heaviest
over-capacity, and that they will take
the longest to resume expansion.
One of these is the motor industry
where the heaviest impact of the
spending stimulants seems to have
been felt. For all the present buoyant
motor sales, this industry is still
working well below capacity. Petro-
chemicals and chemicals are in the
same boat and so are consumer
durables. Against this the iron and
steel industry is a happy exception.
BHP’s expansion plans go on un-
abated.
Although it isn’t easy to establish
the exact tie-up between capital inflow
(one of the most helpful of income
generators here in recent years), and
the climate for industrial investment,
one could be fairly certain that an-
other wave of industrial expansion
here would attract a corresponding
upsurge in capital inflow.
that Common Market alterna-
A tives might deter overseas investors
in sending capital here on a rising
scale in the event of a resumption in
growth in Australia can probably be
discounted. Even now there is plenty
of evidence of continued overseas
interest in investing in this country.
Apparent capital inflow has shown a
strong revival so far this year, and a
further improvement in the economy
could well stimulate it further, par-
ticularly should the favorable atmo-
sphere created by the Budget lead to
a revival in share prices, as would
appear most likely and warranted.
All in all, while the Treasurer
has acted correctly in donning the
garb of Father Christmas at Budget
time, he might confidently expect that
he won’t have to play the role for
the full year. If he finds the economy
going with a swing in the second half
of the year, he will be able to put at
least some of his gifts back in the
bag and keep them for another rainy
day.


MORE MONEY
FOR HOUSING?
In a year when he professes he will be
scratching around for loan money,
the Federal Treasurer will not relish the
idea presently being canvassed by the
Australian Industries Development As-
sociation. To find more money for
housing AIDA wants amended the
statutory obligation on the Common-
wealth and private savings banks to put
70 per cent of their funds into Govern-
ment securities. It has suggested a re-
duction from 70 per cent to 65 per cent,
saying “this reallocation of finance is
obviously an advancement in priority for
housing, which we consider completely
justified.”
The proportion of total funds lent for
housing by the various savings banks is
significant Commonwealth Savings
Bank 16 per cent, State savings banks
26.3 per cent and private savings banks
16.3 per cent. AIDA thinks a small
percentage increase in the lending of the
long established Commonwealth Savings
Bank and a continuing growth in the
newly established private savings banks
would help considerably to meet the
increasing financial requirements for
housing.
It estimates that £6O million a year
additional finance is required for housing.
This is made up of £25 million for
extra dwellings and £35 million to
cover an increase it deems necessary in
the permissible maximum advances.
The suggested increase of £6om. in
housing finance would be about one half
of one per cent of total National Product
and less than 3 per cent of the 1961-62
Commonwealth Budget. It represents
less than 30 per cent of annual pro-
duction lost through the “credit squeeze”
and is little more than the value of
dwelling construction represented by the
fall in private building employment of
13,000 persons in the last 18 months.
AIDA believes that the additional ex-
penditure of £6O million a year to lift
the home construction rate from the
current figure of 86,000 a year to the
estimated required 93,000 would not
need a major re-allocation of resources.
It says there are ample idle resources
(building labour and materials) to take
up the increased finance.
Looking for alternatives AIDA thinks
another possibility would be to counter
the high price of land by directing State
housing commissions and other ap-
propriate agencies to acquire and
develop residential land, to provide
cheap building allotments for lower in-
come groups.
COMPANY MEETING
Custom Credit Corporation Ltd.
The Annual General Meeting of Custom Credit Corporation Limited
was held at 100 New South Head Road, Edgecliff, Sydney, on July 31, 1962.
In moving the adoption of the Directors’ Report and Statements of Account
for the year ended June 30, 1962, the Chairman, Mr. lan M. Jacoby, said:
Ladies and Gentlemen,
The first item on the agenda is to
receive and consider the Directors’
Report and Profit and Loss Account for
the year ended 30th June, 1962, and
Balance Sheet as at 30th June, 1962. In
moving to this effect, I presume it will be
your wish that as the documents have
been circulated they be taken as read.
The Consolidated Net Profit, before
Tax, for the year ended 30th June, 1962,
was £2,217,808 compared with
£2,326,536 for the previous year.
The Directors’ Report gives you details
of the transfers to and from General
Reserve and from the Provision for
Income Tax. With the exception of the
sum of £lOO,OOO appropriated to General
Reserve from the year’s earnings, these
adjustments were made as the result of
calculating the Income Yet to Mature
under Electronic Data Processing.
SHORTER TERM BUSINESS
In June, 1961, the outstandings were
£83,657,799 and the Income Yet to
Mature was £17,483,834. The compar-
able figures at the 30th June, 1962, were
£84,458,126 and £16,780,114. The ratio
of Income unmatured to outstandings at
the 30th June, 1962,/ was lower than the
ratio at 30th June, 1961, due to the fact
that business written during the past year
was entirely for shorter terms.
It should be indicated, however, that
the Income Yet to Mature at the 30th
June, 1962, was not calculated by the
application of a ratio, but by electronic
analysis of every account in the debtors’
ledgers. This anaylsis is, in fact, now a
continuous operation and we have, or will
have, available to us not only the
maturity of the sum of £16,780,114
spread over each future month during
which the relative contracts will expire,
but, in addition, similar information for
every subsequent contract of lending. The
Company in future will thus receive
prompt information concerning its earn-
ings, and I am pleased to say that this
re-organisation has been achieved with a
reduction in overhead compared with the
previous manual methods used.
The volume of business since January
Ist is reaching back towards normal, and
we estimate a steady upward movement
in the whole of our programme for the
coming financial year.
We consider we are well over the diffi-
culties which prevailed all through the
calendar year of 1961. The production
of durable goods suitable for Hire Pur-
chase finance is beginning to move ahead
and is helping towards more dependable
pay-rolls which enable the working
people to again use Hire Purchase with
confidence.
LIQUID CASH POSITION
The Corporation maintains its liquid
position with cash funds at the 30th June,
1962, totalling £2,971,932, whilst receipts
under hire purchase, mortgage and other
contracts during the year ended 30th
June, 1962, totalled £40,840,421.
Receipts for the current year are expected
to be higher.
Borrowings of the Corporation and
its subsidiaries are in a good state of
balance, being £16,735,245 maturing
within twelve months and £40,416,385
maturing later than twelve months. Of
the latter, £11,324,115 matures beyond
five years.
During the year ended 30th June,
1962, 60.65% of all matured borrowings
were renewed for further terms and
currently this ratio is exceeding 66.2/3%.
There is ready support for our Deben-
ture issues and the fluctuating Stock
Exchange has encouraged people to invest
in dependable fixed term securities, and
we particularly draw attention to our
6% Debenture Stock repayable at twelve
months’ notice and the 7% for a fixed
term of 4 years These are very attractive
rates for a bank affiliated companv and
should appeal to our Shareholders as well
as all existing Debenture and Note
Holders.
All subsidiary companies operated at
a profit throughout the year. The net
earnings of National & General Insur-
ance Co. Limited, and consequently the
dividend from that source, were lower
than the previous year due more particu-
larly to the incidence of high claims on
Third Party contracts.
Customlife Assurance Limited had
another good year and new business
amounted to £10,974,931. Policyholders
were again paid a bonus on “With Profits
Policies” of up to £2O per thousand sum
assured. A very satisfactory surplus over
all liabilities amounting to £170,101 was
carried forward after only three years’
operation of the Company.
BETTER RESULTS EXPECTED
Speaking generally, the current posi-
tion is much healthier than the trend
this time a year ago, and your Directors
are confident that the overall results for
1962-63 will be considerably better than
those of the year just ended.
In conclusion I personally wish to
place on record on behalf of the Directors
and Shareholders their thanks to the
Executive and Staff for the accomplish-
ments of the last year which has required
the closest possible co-operation of
Administration not only at the Head
Office but also throughout the Branches.


TABLE
I
LABOR ABSORPTION IN MANUFACTURING INDUSTRY 1950-51 TO 1959-60
Employment Change Employment Labor
J 950-51 to 1959-60 1959-60 Absorption
Numbers Numbers Index
Industry 000s Per Cent 000s Weighting Col.2 x Col.4
Column 1 Column 2 Column 3 Column 4 Group 1=100
1.
Industrial Metals, Machinery
veyances
and
Con-
+ 124.4
+ 33.3
498.2
440
100
2.
Paper, Stationery, Printing
binding
and Book-
+
16.3
+ 29.5
71.6
63
13
3.
Chemicals, Dyes, Explosives,
Paint,
Oil
+
11.3
+ 30.9
47.6
42
9
4.
Rubber
+
5.2
+ 39.2
18.7
16
4£
5
Sawmilling, Timber Working
4
5.3
+ 9.4
61.6
55
4
6.
Bricks, Pottery, Glass
+
3.9
+ 19.1
24.3
21
n
7.
Miscellaneous, e.i
+
3.7
+ 17.6
24.7
22
n
8.
Textiles and Textile Goods
Tyres)
Treatment of Non-Metallic
Quarry Products
(excluding
+
3.9
+ 5.7
72.2
64
2 \
9.
Mine
&
+■
3.3
+ 179
21.7
19
n
10.
Heat, Light and Power ....
+
2.3
+ 13.9
16.6
15
21
11.
Food, Drink and Tobacco
+
1.7
+ 1.4
126.1
111
1
12.
Furniture, Bedding
+
0.1
+ .04
22.9
20
(a)
13.
Skins and Leather
2.9
—18.3
12.9
11
(b)
14.
Precious Metals, Jewellery, Plate ..
—
l.n
—15.9
5.3
5
(b)
15.
Clothinc
—
15.4
—12.6
106.8
96
(b)
All
(a)
Manufacturing Industries +162.8
Virtually nil. (b'i Lost labor over the period.
+ 14 4
1,131.7
1,000
TABLE II
LABOR ABSORPTION IN
METAL INDUSTRIES
Employment Change
Employment
Labor
1950-51
to 1959-60
1959-60
Absorption
Column 1
Column 2
Column
3 Column 4
Index
METAL FABRICATING INDUSTRIES:
000s
Per Cent
000's
Weighting
Col.2 x Col.4
1. Electrical Machinery
+ 17.7
+ 49
53.1
200
100
2. Plant and Equipment
+ 15.0
+ 24
76.1
289
71
3. Wireless, TV, etc.
+ 9.0
+ 84
19.6
74
63
4. Other Engineering
+ 7.2
+ 39
25.8
97
38
5. Wire and Wire Working
“f- 3.6
+ 54
10.0
37
20
6. Non Ferrous and Casting
+ 3.2
+ 46
10.6
39
18
7. Sheet Metal Working
+ 3.8
+ 17
26.9
100
17
8. Pipes and Tubes
+ 2.0
+ 32
8.3
31
10
9. Foundries
+ 0.5
+ 7
7.9
30
2
10. Agricultural Machinery
— .4
— 3
11.3
43
— 1
11. Other
— 3.4
—17
16.3
60
—11
Total Metal Fabricating
+ 58.2
+ 28
265.9
1,000
—
BASIC METAL INDUSTRIES:
1. Smelting of Iron and Steel
+ 18.4
+ 123
31.8
706
100
2. Rolling and Extrusion of Non Ferrous
Metals
+ 2.1
+ 57
5.8
139
9
3. Extracting and Refining of other Metals
— .4
— 5
7.5
165
—n
Total B.M. Industries
+ 20.2
+ 81
45.1
1,000
-
MOTOR VEHICLES & CYCLES:
1. M.V. Repairs
+ 21.3
+ 51
60.2
500
100
2. Motor Bodies
+ 10.2
+ 58
27.9
230
52
3. Construction and Assembly
+ 7
+ 57
21.7
180
40
4. Motor Accessories
+ 4.7
+ 92
10.2
85
34
5. Cycles
— .7
—55
.5
5
—11
Total M.V. and Cycles
+ 43.5
+ 55
120.7
1,000
—
Economics Anonymous
LABOR ABSORPTION PATTERN -(2)
A n analysis of the labor absorption
pattern during the 19505, the best
years so far for growth in Australia’s
economic history, points to the great
reliance placed on manufacturing in-
dustry. In The Bulletin, July 28, it
was shown that, taking manufacturing as
100, the next best labor absorbers were
tertiary industry such as “community
and business services” with an index of
63, commerce (29) and property and
finance (28). The only other industries
to absorb labor over the period were
transport and communications (9) and
miscellaneous public authority work
(6).
It was also shown that amusements,
hotels and personal services taken as a
group absorbed just about the same
amount of labor in 1959-60 as they did
ten years earlier, while such an import-
ant industry as building and construc-
tion actually employed fewer workers
(even if its total of 213,000 was still a
key element of the labor force.) So did
mining, trapping, quarrying, fishing and
forestry. No figures are available for
employment in other primary industries,
but these are also believed to have lost
substantial numbers of workers during
the 50s.
Granted its overriding employment
significance, it is appropriate now to
take a closer look at the performance of
manufacturing industry with a view to
assessing the range and depth of em-
ployment opportunities we might expect
to be created in it in the coming task
of absorbing unemployed and finding
work for the growing numbers joining
the work force.
In doing this the same technique has
been adopted as in the article reviewing
the general range of employments in the
economy. This time the industrial metals,
machines and conveyances group which
achieved the highest rate of labor absorp-
tion among manufacturing industries, is
given an index number of 100 (Table 1).
This is calculated by multiplying its
percentage increase in labor over the
period by a weighting, based on its pro-
portionate contribution to manufacturing
industry employment as a whole during
1959-60. The labor absorption rates of
other individual manufacturing industries
are then calculated on the same basis
and expressed as a percentage of 100,
thus indicating their relative importance
to all other manufacturing groups.
Table 2 is a detailed assessment of
the labor absorption pattern in the three
segments of the “industrial metals, mach-
inery and conveyances groups”, which,
as will be seen from Table 1, is by far
the most important labor absorber of all
manufacturing industries.
The figures used in all tables are for
the average of employment over the
years, whereas in the general exercise
the figures used were for those employed
in the months of June 1950 and 1960.
This slightly prejudices the comparison
with the general exercise, but is neces-
sary because detailed figures for specific
manufacturing industries are published
by the Commonwealth Statistician only
on a yearly basis and not month by
month as in the case of the broad in-
dustrial groups.
As indicated by Table 1 the metals
group increased its labor by just on a
third over the ten years. Although this
percentage increase was not the high-
est (rubber surpassed it with an increase
of 39.2 per cent) its importance far out-
weighs rubber or any other group be-
cause of its predominant contribution to
the labor force in 1959-60. Nor, as will
be seen from the numbers employed
shown in Column 3 of this table is the
metals group in danger of being over-
taken by any other group as a potential
absorber of labor. The only other group
qualifying for a weighting of more than
100 (as against 440 for industrial metals,
machinery and conveyances) is food,
drink and tobacco. Since the food, drink
and tobacco group employed virtually no


ENJOY
the
finest and friendliest in
SAVINGS BANK
service at
THE COMMERCIAL
SAVINGS BANK
OF AUSTRALIA
LIMITED
You'll discover there’s a new
meaning to service and welcome
when you open a savings account
at any one of the 700 offices
of The Commercial Bank of
Australia Limited.
DEPOSITS GUARANTEED BY THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF LIMITED
CBS/11/24
additional labor in 1959-60 compared
w ith 1950-51, it would seem to hold
o ut very limited opportunities as a source
of new employment.
Perhaps the most disturbing revela-
don from this analysis is the number of
industries which, while making a sub-
stantial contribution to the volume of
employment, have either increased their
work forces by only a thousand or two
over the ten years or have actually lost
labor. Excluding the first five industries
on the list, there was a net loss of about
500 in employment in manufacturing
(that is in ten of the groups) over the
ten years. When it is considered that
these ten groups accounted for about 40
per cent of the employed labor force in
1959-60, the outlook for labor absorption
at the rate demanded by the existing
number of unemployed and the teenagers
and migrants that have to be accommo-
dated is most unpropitious.
Table 2 gives a separate analysis of
the labor absorption achieved by the
three sectors of this group from 1950
to 1960. This shows that metal fabricat-
ing industries contributed 58,200, motor
vehicles (including repairs) and cycles
43,5 00 and basic metal industries 20,200
of the 124,000 addition to the group’s
work force over the period.
In the metal fabricating section, it is
not surprising that electrical machinery,
which includes the bulk of consumer
durable goods, proved to be the best
labor absorber, providing work for
17,700 more employees, an increase of
just on 50 per cent over the period.
Second best in this group was industrial
plant and equipment which employed the
biggest numbers (76.100 compared with
electrical machine.y's 53,100) in 1959-
60, but which gained only 15.000 or 24
per cent more workers in the period.
But as the table indicates there were
several very good sections in this field,
including wireless and other electronic,
TV, etc., which increased its employed
labor by 84 per cent, and though it only
employed 20.000 or so in 1959-60 it
achieved a comparatively high labor ab-
sorption index of 63. third in the group
to electrical machinery and industrial
plant and equipment. However while
there are doubtless very big fields of ex-
pansion ahead for the best two labor
absorbers in this section, there may not
be a particularly promising future for
labor absorption in the t 1 ’’’d.
On the other hand the outlook in the
basic metal industries, particularly the
smelting and conversion of iron and
steel, which increased its workforce by
18,300 or by 123 per cent (the biggest
percentage rise in any manufacturing in-
dustry), must be rated very good, if only
because BHP has announced a continu-
ance of a high annual rate of expansion
and a variety of massive new projects.
Similarly, while rolling and extrusion
of non-ferrous metals can be rated as
only a tenth as important as iron and
steel as a labor absorber in the ten years
to 1960, these activities may well play a
more important role in the future, es-
pecially in view cf the big aluminium
projects in train.
The third sub-division of the industrial
metals, machines and conveyances group
is motor vehicles, including in this con-
struction and assembly, motor bodies,
repairs, motor accessories and cycles.
Industry for industry this was the win-
ner for labor absorption during the
19505, showing an increase of 43,500 in
new employment by the end of the
decade and employing some 120,700
workers. This covered most of the period
of the establishment of a motor industry
here on a world scale, but, having
reached a capacity sufficient to cater
for demand for some years ahead, we
cannot be too confident of absorbing
labor in the industry during the next
few years at anything like the same rate
as during the golden 50s.


Fn
r\J
ID
mm
m
YOUR
MONEY
CAN EARN
TEN
PERCENT
WITH FIRST
MORTGAGE
SECURITY
RETURN OF CAPITAL. All interest is paid
quarterly and the first £lOO is available on demand.
Also, earlier redemption of your entire investment is
available under our emergency repayment provisions.
SECURITY. As a debenture holder your money
is safeguarded by a mortgage over the assets and
business of the company. This means that your
security comes before that of shareholders and
.creditors.
NATURE OF BUSINESS. Testro Bros. Consolidated
Ltd. is the finance member of the world-wide Testro
Group.
HOW TO INVEST. Simply obtain prospectus and
application form by posting the coupon below.
TESTRO BROS. CONSOLIDATED LTD.
Testro House, 222 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Please send me prospectus and
application form.
NAME
ADDRESS
Fl/2
Applications for debentures will proceed only on the
printed form of application attached to prospectus.
SEND IT
m
m
%■?
Twwmnmmi
ia.
ROAD
FOR SPEED —SAFETY —SERVICE
■jt»t
SrSwfw A MEMBER OF THE MAYNE NICKLESS GROUP
o
DAILY SCHEDULED ROAD SERVICES
To ALL Capital Cities
Throughout Australia
RADIO PICK-UP TRUCKS*
DEATH OF
A GENIUS
A man who could properly be re-
garded as the father of modern
statistical method died almost unnoticed
in Adelaide last week. He was Sir Ronald
Aylmer Fisher, FRS, a mathematician
whose work on the theory of statistics
and the design of experiments revolution-
ised research in agriculture, animal and
plant breeding, medicine, biology and
engineering.
Fisher was 72 and at the time of his
death held the consulting position of
senior research fellow with the CSIRO
division of mathematical statistics in
Adelaide. He settled in Australia several
years ago, following his retirement as
Arthur Balfour Professor of Genetics at
Cambridge in 1957.
Few scientific workers can achieve
more than Fellowship of the Royal
Society and a knighthood; Fisher had
these, and many other honours from
scientific societies.
A measure of the importance of his
theories is that they form the basis for
almost every scientific experiment now
performed to test new agricultural and
veterinary chemicals and new pharma-
ceutical drugs. They are also used in
almost every kind of industrial produc-
tion especially in the process indus-
tries such as chemicals, petroleum, steel,
paper, cement and food canning.
Born in 1890 in London, Fisner had
extremely defective eyesight. As a boy at
Harrow he was forbidden to study by
artificial light. His evening tuition was
done verbally without pencil or paper, a
process which assisted the development
of his remarkable geometrical intuition.
In 1919 he joined the Agricultural Ex-
periment Station at Rothamsted in Eng-
land, and in the next 15 years he devel-
oped the theories of statistics, experimen-
tal design and interpretation of results
which made his name famous.
The problem to which Fisher devoted
himself was one which faces almost
every human operation involving un-
(Continued on page 47)


GOVERNMENT -GUARANTEED
For 7, 15 or 25 years!
THE
SYDNEY
WATER BOARD
£5/7/6% LOAN
GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED. Half-yearly interest
and full repayment of principal at maturity are
unconditionally guaranteed by the New South Wales
Government.
AN AUTHORISED TRUSTEE INVESTMENT in N.S.W.,
Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania.
TAX CONCESSIONS FOR PENSION AND SUPER-
ANNUATION FUNDS. An approved investment for
Trustees wishing to qualify for taxation concessions.
CASH INVESTMENTS may be made for one or more
of these terms.
CONVERSION. Holders of securities in Loan No. 84
(£4/10/0%, maturing Ist September next) are invited
to convert to the new loan and gain HIGHER interest
without interruption.
APPLY TODAY at any office of the Commonwealth
Trading Bank; Australia and New Zealand Bank
Limited; Bank of New South Wales; Commercial
Banking Company of Sydney Limited; English, Scottish
and Australian Bank Limited; Rural Bank of New South
Wales; or through a recognised Stockbroker; or at
the Board's offices.
Underwritten by J. B. Were & Son, Members of The
Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
controllable factors. In the simplest
instance, every time you grow a plant or
lay a slab of concrete the results will be
different, even if you try to make them
the same.
How do you conduct a series of experi-
ments in such a way as to distinguish
between the changes which are caused by
the factors which you varied, and the
changes which would have occurred any-
way? Fisher was the first person to solve
this problem and his methods affect every
scientific investigation now carried out.
His techniques were in the nature of a
revolution especially in agricultural
science.
In 1933 he left Rothamsted to become
Galton Professor of Eugenics at the
University of London, and later (1943)
went to Cambridge as Balfour Professor
of Genetics. These moves followed his
publication in 1930 of his book “The
Genetical Theory of Natural Selection”.
Darwin’s theory of evolution involved
natural selection as a means by which
evolution occurred. But it left natural
selection itself as a very doubtful and
rather unexplained procedure. Fisher’s
application of mathematical theory to the
problem established natural selection as
an “agent bound to cause definite changes
at a calculable rate.” Natural selection
is now as definite and predictable as the
actuaries’ life tables used by an insurance
company.
Fisher was always an advocate of clear
thinking and exact statement. He won
enemies as well as friends for his out-
spoken assessments of matters of public
interest in his field. One case in point was
the lung cancer-smoking controversy on
which he forthrightly stated his views in
Australia and elsewhere over the last few
years.
First, he thought that the problem had
got into the wrong hands. And, second,
he thought that when, as in this case, a
clear correlation had been established
between the incidence of lung cancer and
smoking habits, one of three propositions
is true —
• either smoking is a substantial cause
of lung cancer;
• lung cancer is a substantial cause of
smoking;
• something else is a substantial cause
of both lung cancer and smoking.
Fisher thought the last of these alter-
natives was the most likely and the
genetic effect (or heredity) was the com-
mon factor.
He cited evidence which showed that
the smoking habits of human beings are
influenced by heredity; and also that the
susceptibility of rats to cancer is
influenced by heredity. He also suggested
some practical ways by which the truth
of the matter could be discovered.
Fisher came twice to Australia as
a distinguished visitor for the CSIRO.


WE SUPPLY
EXPLOSIVE'S - Log-splitting and
post-hole guns Powder and fuse
for same Blasting mats. Tamping
rods Magazines. Carrying boxes.
Exploders and all accessories,
STEAM VALVES - Everlasting
valve Particularly suitable for
boiler blow-off or full on.
WATER FILTERS - For farm,
household and industrial use.
TUYERES Hot air tor forges
MINING Curvilinear tables for
ore concentration Classifiers. Rapid
magnetting machines.
TOOLS Barrows, pinch and other
bars Jumpers, mattocks, picks,
handles, shovels, quarry tools, read-
lamps, etc
ENQUIRIES TO
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.,
78 PARRAMATTA ROAD, CAMPERDOWN, N.S.W.
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Chartei A.D I7'io)
Assets exceed £177,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the economic
growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O’Connell Streets, SYDNEY
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
Investment Section
SANITY AT LAST
ON THE WAY IN HIRE PURCHASE
recent goodish ripple of quite fav-
A orable company reports has flut-
tered the pessimistic dovecotes a little,
though doubtless they will get their satis-
factions later on in the balance-sheet
season. But everybody should feel like
rejoicing at the better tone visible among
the top hire-purchase houses and the
pointer given by the whole h-p. debt.
Many careful observers last year had
predicted a much more than holding
operation by the larger finance com-
panies. The trend of results so far has
culminated in a first-rate performance by
Australian Guarantee Corporation —and
on merely slightly higher outstandings,
too. The procession has also been digni-
fied by Custom Credit, United Domin-
ions. Associated Securities, Automobile
and General, Esanda and CAGA.
Only Custom Credit blotted its copy-
book on the vital provision for unearned
income and reform is on the way in this
instance. The other companies are gen-
erally growing into models of responsi-
bility.
None too soon, many might add. Per-
haps we can i oo k forward to the day
when all include an actuary’s certificate
like AGC. This unequivocally stated,
inter alia, “1 am satisfied that the method
used is such that the amount of defer-
ment (of income) produced is greater
than would be reserved by a true actu-
arjaj me fo Q( j »
a fter languishing around Bs. while
] a t es j- new issue was being
digested, Interstate Oil shares are a bit
higher in front of the spudding-in of
Frome Bioken Hill’s new well at Port
Fairy (Victoria). The company is more
confident of the outcome of the new
W£ b l^ an ap y °th er d das drilled so far.
Interstate Oil has the added attraction
of having a 15 p.c. interest in the opera-
tions of the AAO group, which has half
a dozen new wells planned for its
territories in Queensland over the next
few months.
TGTactoring is here to stay. Talcott Fac-
-*■ tors Ltd, in which MLC Ltd,
Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney, and
the Capel Court group all have substan-
tial shareholdings, nearly trebled turn-
over to £5.5 million in the last year to
June 30.
Profit advanced from £33,408 to
something in excess of £60,000, which
represents a very respectable earning rate
on average capital employed, of at least
18 p.c.
To finance expansion, this Sydney
company will make a one-for-four par
issue to shareholders registered on
August 17.
MOONIE No. 5
STRIKES OIL
Oo Moonie No. 5 delivered some
dramatic goods and th_ initial
proving of the width of this most
hopeful field gets off to a good start.
The hole constituted a first probing of
the west flank. Moonie No. 6, rigging
up at the time of the news and soon
to spud in, is to begin testing of the
east flank.
Success here and perhaps at one
other site could well lead to procla-
mation of a commercial field before
the end of 1962.
Rather in line with established tra-
dition, the latest disclosure caught
Sydney Stock Exchange closed for the
Bank holiday. Investors have been be-
having with utmost circumspection
lately and though perhaps now in a
mood to let their heads go, no undue
wildness is called for.
For the record, No. 5 flowed at a
rate of 1645 barrels a day on Sunday
night during a drill stem test lasting
97 minutes. The choke used was 5/8
in. diameter and disgorged clean, 43
gravity oil suitable for high quality
refining. A gas flow rate of 160,000
cubic feet a day also took place.
What again seems significant is the
roughly even depth of these success-
ful holes No. 5 at between 5805
and 5843 ft, and the others at be-
tween 5804 to 5925 ft.
Union-Kern-AOG have certainly
struck it lucky with this continuity of
wet holes. It is to be hoped that forti-
tude and judgment are being trained
against the probably Inevitable dry
hole.


CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on Bth March, 1950.
PER
ANNUM
4 YEARS
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE
UNSECURED
DEPOSIT
NOTES
9% P.A. 4 years
OVz% P.A. ... 3 years
3% P.A. 2 years
7V2% P.A. 12 rnths.
6% P.A 6 rnths.
FUNDS MAY BE WITHDRAWN IN A PERSONAL EMERGENCY
APPLICATIONS MUST BE MADE ON THE FORM ATTACHED
TO THE PROSPECTUS, WHICH IS NOW AVAILABLE FROM:
Ail Branches of the Company's Bankers
THE BANK OF N.S.W.
The Company's Offices,
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Fir., Empire House, Corner Wharf and Queen Streets.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street.
NEWCASTLE WEST: Cambridge House. 767-773 Hunter Street.
WAGGA: 147 Bayliss Street.
Any Member of the Stock Exchange
BROKERS:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of fhe Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
TRUSTEES FOR THE NOTEHOLDERS:
Bankers & Traders Insurance Company Limited
CCI4O/AB
TALK AROUND CHANGE
If/HiLE the rest of Australia has been
" laboring under heavy skies these
last 18 months or so, Western Australia
has been basking in the sun with in-
dustrial development proceeding more
vigorously than in any previous period
and plenty of new schemes are being
planned to keep up the good work. In
fact the Cinderella of the Australian
industrial scene has been stepping out
as never before.
One of those to have been enjoying
the new climate is Perth engineer
BHB Engineers Pty Ltd which has
formed a public company, Bowra Hold-
ings Limited, whose ss. shares will be
listed on the Perth and Melbourne Stock
Exchanges for the first time next week.
Expansion of the group, which manu-
factures a wide range of agricultural and
other machinery, has been quite spec-
tacular in recent years. Sales have in-
creased sharply each year from £28,006
in 1957 to £187,220 in 1961. In the
six months to December last they rose
to an annual rate of £203,000 (£101,514
for the half year).
A new factory is under construction
adjacent to the present one at East
Perth to handle the continuing increase
in orders.
The company expects to pay a 10 p.c.
dividend on the ss. shares, a reasonable
forecast in view of the double cover for
this rate of dividend at the latest
accounting.
The issue of the 192,000 fully paid
shares to be listed has been over-sub-
scribed at the issue price of par. A good
market is expected and the shares should
go to a healthy premium.
A lso coming to the market soon will
be Kay Corporation Ltd, which was
registered in Melbourne last week as the
new public company to fly the colors of
the Kay group of companies whose
main subsidiaries are Kays Leasing Cor-
poration Pty Ltd and Alex Kay Ltd.
The company is to float on an initial
capital of £300,000 in ss. shares, of
which sufficient will be listed to qualify
the company for stock exchange
recognition. Pull details, including
broker handling operation, are not yet
to hand.
VlThat a fall there has been in the once
" high and mighty shares of Union
Carbide, once rated by the market as
one of the country’s leading growth
stocks. The 10s. shares at onb time in
1960 commanded double their present
price of around 60s.
The trouble is that investors are a
little tired of waiting for the promised
land. The company has sunk about £4
million (mainly borrowed from the
parent) in its brand new polyethylene
plant at Altona and is finding the local
market for polyethylene slower than ex-
pected, while the traditional battery
business has suffered from the recession.
The day to get enthusiastic again
about Union Carbide will be when we
find our bread being delivered in poly-
ethylene wrappings and our irrigation
channels are similarly covered. Mean-
while the company has got the contract
to cover the Sydney-Vancouver cable
with the stuff, so things are presumably
not as rough as they might appear to
be in the present cut-throat battle with
ICIANZ.
The December, 1962, half year was
apparently a poor one, attributable
mainly to the chemicals division. The
question now is whether even now, with
the yield up to a clear 3 p.c., sellers are
not asking too much for the shares.


y
£750,000
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
1%
2
OR 8% PER ANNUM FOR 5 YEARS
Trustees for Debenture Stock Holdings: The M.L.C. Nominees Limited
Prospectus containing application forms can be obtained from:
• Any branch of the National Bank of Australasia in N.S.W. and
Canberra.
® Stocks & Holdings Limited, 329 George Street, Sydney. 8X3041.
• Any member of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
Underwritten by:
J. and J. NORTH
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
Kindersley House,
20 O’Connell Street and
Sydney. 25-6511.
57 Hunter Street,
Newcastle. 84645.
Applications must be made on the application form attached to the Prospectus.
TALK AROUND CHANGE - Cont.
Tn Sydney last week, two timber mer-
A chant groups attracted renewed
interest on the ’Change floor. Duncans
Holdings & George Hudson Holdings
both moved higher.
Rationalisation appears to be the only
answer to the many problems facing the
timber industry. The simplest way of
rationalisation is by merger of the units
within the industry.
Duncans and local timber giant
PGH Industries were known to have
been thinking along these lines last year
with PGH, of course, the dominating
influence.
It would not surprise to see a merger
between Duncans and George Hudson—
provided the merger was geared to reduce
capital of the resultant organisation
below that of the combined total now.
The market for timber is just not there
for satisfactory exploitation by too many
units. Cut-throat competition for busi
ness is not the answer. Efficiency is.
117ith only weeks to run before the
announcement of the terms of the
H. C. Sleigh Ltd - Bitumen and Oil Re-
fineries (Aust.) merger, the share market
has settled down in the happy belief that
the deal will be on a two Sleighs for one
BORAL basis.
H. C. Sleigh, despite a good year, has
slipped to 12s. BORAL, which may not
have enjoyed as buoyant conditions as
in 1960-61, and is expected to disclose a
considerably lower earning rate, has held
its price around 245.-245. 6d. for the last
month.
The market is seldom wrong, but there
are a few observers who would not be
surprised if the merger was geared a little
more in BORAL’s favor than 2-for-l.
If it were to be, say, 2-for-l, plus a
cash consideration (BORAL has consider-
able liquid resources following takeover
of Huddart Parker Ltd), then, of course,
BORAL shares represent quick capital
appreciation at the current market price.
Moreover a gamble that this will be
the case is underwritten by the acknow-
ledged thought that a ss. share in the
resultant BORAL-Sleigh (or whatever the
name will be) is worth more, intrinsically,
than 12s. The BORAL shares seem
worthy of a speculation.
HThe mooted public flotation by Boral
A Explorations Ltd (an oil exploration
offshoot of Bitumen & Oil (Aust.) Ltd,
appears to have been shelved temporarily.
The market for oil shares currently
reflects the huge drain made on available
funds in recent months. And, with this
physical evidence of saturation, attempts
to raise funds would not be popular.
The climate for new oil search money
—with “stags” making up a good deal of
applications—can be seen in the market
price of the two recent flotations, Farm-
out Drillers & Amalgamated Petroleum,
both of which are selling below issue
price.
HThe Australia Hotel Co Ltd, Sydney,
A experienced a halving of profit in
the year to June. Airconditioning was
installed in all rooms, disrupting busi-
ness more than expected. The expenses
of renovation were abnormal for any
one year.
These factors were peculiar to The
Australia, but directors also said that
conditions in the hotel industry made
trading difficult. This makes all the
more remarkable Chevron Sydney’s
claim of between 85 and 90 p.c. occu-
pancy since opening day. (Chevron
told The Bulletin bookings were 100
p.c. for July and August.)
And Chevron starts a long way be-
hind scratch with its heavy capitalisa-
tion per room, compared with the older
but very centrally situated Australia
Hotel.
The Australia reports that since
March, all rooms were available, and
trading was better than in the previous
year.
Although the Australia Hotel’s share-
holders have had their dividend receipts
lopped from 15 p.c. in 1959-60 to 12i
p.c. and 10 p.c. in 1961-62, they should
eventually be rewarded for their patience,
now that the hotel can offer such im-
proved facilities to guests.


WHAT'S THE REAL "GEN" ON C.S.R.?
was at least one mildly
facetious interlude at the annual
meeting of the Colonial Sugar Re-
fining Co. Ltd —a shareholder made
bold to ask the chairman (Mr J. W.
Dunlop) the purpose of the present
cash issue. “Making shareholders
happy,” Mr Dunlop gleefully replied.
Seriousness then could not help
breaking through and the meeting
received an assurance that proceeds
were to be directed over the whole
great range of the company’s activities.
Such fresh and glamorous ventures
like oil and TV would not demand
all the raisings.
Whether shareholders went away
cheered is unrecorded. Many of
them may lately have owned to a
feeling that growth has crept away
from the company, despite its hectic
and now struggling diversifications in
recent years.
Also the newly split 20s. shares of
the one-for-seven issue bear a heavy
50 p.c. premium. The market’s
earlier moods, and, indeed, judgment
had pulled share prices well back.
One immediate consequence, natur-
ally, is that rights to the issue are
now selling a fair distance below
their theoretical value. Reasonably
cheap levels are likely to prevail for
a time. Do waiting investors seize
this opportunity to buy in?
It must be stated forthwith that
the overall financial position is clearly
and abundantly strong, as the attached
summary of accounts can demon-
strate in part. But they demonstrate,
too, some erosion of earning rate on
total funds used (although some
improvement occurred in 1961-62),
and prospective investors won’t wish
this to go any lower. After all, about
3i p.c. on funds employed is not
really the performance of a leader
striking out towards genuine and pay-
ing expansion. Or perhaps the
shackles will soon drop away and all
those latterly embraced interests come
good.
These kind of general questions
mostly decide the conflict, since it is
hard to read much more basic sinew
into the existing accounts. For in-
stance, from the shareholders’ point
of view, a massive share premium
reserve at £2,038,200 (on March 31
last) holds promise of future bonus
benefits. All kinds of asset revalua-
tion are still clearly possible.
The newer form of accounts sets
out a long list of subsidiaries “to
which the annexed 1962 accounts
relate”. Is it unduly optimistic to
hope that, at some future date, in-
formative details of the earnings
from principal subsidiary activities
be provided? This becomes par-
ticularly necessary if sugar continues
much longer to carry the brunt of
profitable dealings.
But one cannot honestly denigrate
the accounts as such, for their con-
solidated peculiarities are not con-
fined to CSR alone. The reformed
Act cannot confer heaven right at
the start.
So, as suggested above, one must
return to actual operations and their
future trends. Solely in group profit
terms, 1961-62 turned out to be
quite a good year, especially after
the gloom rather forcibly read into
the interim report. This gloom had
extended even to the company’s his-
toric main commodity, sugar.
One circumstance which gives
special moment to the company’s
sugar prospects is continued improve-
ment in Fiji, where 1960-61 had seen
disruption and a substantial loss. Of
more import, perhaps, is the in-
creased and long-term access to the
US market by quota and the vast
possibilities of the Japanese market.
CSR sold more than 300,000 tons of
1962 season sugar to Japan. The
Japanese sugar industry representa-
tives now touring Australia cheerfully
predict larger requirements.
These are matters of the company’s
traditional expertise—it has been con-
cerned with sugar since 1855. There
are not lacking a host of voices to
declare that to no other activity does
CSR bring quite the same sure touch.
Such a view appears manifestly ex-
aggerated, unless it be maintained that
it was an error of judgment to become
so deeply committed to building
materials and chemicals in the first
place. If so, CSR sinned with some
better versed companions.
Without entering into the back-
ground of these two major ventures,
it suffices to say that a brighter out-
look is discernible for both. As well,
in the current year, another pair of
interests —CSRC-Dow Pty Ltd and
B. J. Goodrich-CSR Chemicals Pty
Ltd, each part of the Altona petro-
chemical complex—bring in a com-
plete 12 months’ earnings.
Of CSR's most recent dive into
Planet Oil (400,000 shares and a five-
year option over a big part of unis-
sued capital) and its link with United
Telecasters Sydney Ltd (to seek a
commercial TV licence), It is too soon
to speak. The moves looked unusual
for a conventionally regarded and
staid leader, but could assuredly bring
huge benefits. The company has large
holdings in Courtaulds (Aust.), Reed
Paper Products Holdings, and Flet-
chers Holdings of NZ.
If all CSR’s range were to gell at
once, or close together, its future
would indeed glow rosily. That is too
much to expect too soon, as is a
return of the days when a rash com-
mentator exulted that the old £2O
shares would go over £lOO.
On the other hand, it is not too
much to believe that earning rate can
be more than held in the present
year. Directors lifted dividend from 9
to 9i p.c. for 1961-62 and have not
committed themselves to a fresh state-
ment since the issue opened. All in
all, prevailing prices of around 495.
for the shares and 17s. 9d for the
rights give a very reasonable entry.
Rights may probably droop a little —
with 30s. to pay, they are now the
best way in. There would appear to
be no wild hurry.


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
JOHN A. GILBERT HOLDINGS LTD
WARNING ON EARNINGS
more than 23 years John A. Gil-
bert has had a General Motors-
Holden franchise in Sydney. GMH de-
clared the company winner of an Aus-
tralia-wide sales contest early in 1961, so
the franchise seems secure. Gilbert con-
siders it a valuable one, and does every-
thing possible to assure its continuance.
The company chalked record sales of
£6,574,735 in the year to March 31. It
made record delivery of vehicles, but
new vehicle sales were down. The train
of economic events since November 15,
1960 produced this fall, and by the same
token, a rise in the company’s used
vehicle turnover, in the volume of ser-
vice work and sales of replacement parts.
The group has new Holden showrooms
at William Street (Sydney), Hornsby and
Waitara. Used car sales are held at
Waitara, Bankstown, Granville, Croy-
don, Lakemba and Fivedock. The group
also has distributing rights for Bedford
omnibuses and diesel engines from
Lakemba.
Group profit fell short of the 1961
record. Net result fell from £189,177 to
£165,679. after allowing £14,839 less for
taxation at £122,491 and £11,210 more
for depreciation at £54,583. Earning rate
eased on unchanged capital, but still
allowed very satisfactory margin for the
usual 15 p.c. payout.
Profit of Bus Lines of Australia Pty,
operating in the NSW country areas of
Orange, Bathurst, Tamworth and Ber-
rima, improved profit slightly. Four new
buses were brought into service, and
further replacements are planned.
The h-p offshoot, Credit and Guaran-
tee Pty, lifted profits. Gross outstandings,
currently exceeding £l.l million, were
represented by 2.130 contracts, of which
97 p.c. are hire purchase agreements,
Industrial Lessors Pty again leased
vehicles on a limited scale, and operated
at a profit.
The only unsatisfactory subsidiary,
Charley and Clayton Pty Ltd (engaged
in real estate) made a loss in its first full
year of operation. Since balance date
it has been sold, and the name changed
to John A. Gilbert Investments Pty Ltd.
Tax advantage can be gained from the
accumulated loss.
Paid capital of £50,000 in preference
shares and £511,044 in ss. ordinaries is
flanked by reserves of £619,649, which
is subject to goodwill of £96,392. Capi-
tal will be increased by £101,144 when
6 p.c. unsecured notes are converted at
par into ordinary shares on December
31, 1964.
The company is developing a property
opposite the University of Sydney on
Parramatta Road for a new showroom
and service station, incorporating
vehicle and retail parts outlets. Finance
for the land and building has been ar-
ranged on favorable terms. However, in-
terest charges during the construction
period and for a short period thereafter
until the outlet is fully income-producing
may lower the group's earning rate, the
chairman warned shareholders in his
annual address.
Turnover in the first four months of
the year was at a lower rate than last
year. But a new model Holden, the
Premier, came on sale on August 1. With
seven new Ford Falcon models hitting
the market within a week, the stage is
set for a battle royal.
Present price level of around 13s. 9d
to yield 5.5 p.c. is within 6d. of the top
price ever paid for Gilbert shares on
Sydney market. It seems rather optimis-
tic in terms of the dividend yield obtain-
able at the same point in previous years.
The company has been building up its
reserves steadily until now they exceed
paid capital, but no bonus will be made
before January 1965, according to the
covenant in the trust deed for the con-
vertible notes. A noteholder was willing
to sacrifice his holding last week for
10s. 6d., but still found no takers. If
the price of the shares is maintained
over the next 16 months, there is a
capital gain of 30 p.c. to be made on
each note, if income can be forgone in
the interim. This makes quite a case for
switching from the shares to the notes,
as the notes rank equally for any (un-
likely) issues.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARIES £’ooo
March 31 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 887 1022 1147 1404 1556
less current liabilities 492 560 595 794 896
Working capital 395 462 552 610 660
Fixed assets 368 375 535 559 571
763 837 1087 1169 1231
Represented by:
Loan capital 49 67 215 170 146
Preference capital 50 50 50 50 50
Ordinary capital 506 506 506 511 511
Reserves 158 214 316 438 524
763 837 1087 1169 1231
Depreciation 41 37 37 43 55
Taxation 80 80 112 137 122
Net earnings 128 135 183 189 166
Pref. div. 4 4 4 4 4
Ord. div. 76 76 76 76 76
Surplus 48 55 104 109 86
Earn, rate p.c. 24.6 25.9 35.3 36.2 31.6
Div. rate p.c. 15 15 15 15 15
Div. yield (a) 9.7 7.6 5.3 6.8 5.5
High price (b) 8/6 9/1 11/9 14/3 12/6
Low price (b) 7/6 7/6 7/11 10/ 10/
(a) July 31, end of month in which accounts
presented.
(b) Preceding calendar year.
KINNEARS ROPES (AUST.) LTD
HIT BY WEATHER AND IMPORTS
dwellers may rejoice at unseason-
ably dry, warm weather, but they
may not realise ho" those conditions can
affect their income as well as that of the
primary producer.
Victorian company Kinnears Ropes
(Aust.) Ltd experienced a very consider-
able loss of gross earnings in the finan-
cial year to February 28, 1962. The un-
usual spring and summer of 1961 cut
the demand of primary industries for
harvest twines.
Kinnears makes manila, sisal, nylon
and coir ropes, bales, binder and sewing
twines from jute, hemp, flax and cotton,
and various threads at Footscray. They
are sold under the “Emu” brand. Some
of the flax yarn is used for canvas, and
jute and viscose yarns are used in car-
pet making.
B. D. Mops and Buffs Pty caters
mainly for the automotive trade, which.
of course, was seriously restricted in
the last financial period.
The company also has interests in the
growing of phormium hemp at Werribee.
In June of this year, Kinnears took
over Frank and Bryce Bentley Pty, a
subsidiary of Lindustries Ltd of Glas-
gow. The acquired company makes
rope, cordage and thread at Marrick-
ville and Caringbah. Consideration was
the issue of 465,000 10s, ordinary shares
as fully paid, ranking for dividend as
from March 1.
The company has had a satisfactory
profit record since going public in 1954,
and 9 p.c. dividends have been the
annual distribution. Latest result, how-
ever a net profit of £128,314 after
£67,000 tax and £52,429 depreciation
■—was the poorest to date.
Relaxation of imports brought a flood
of jute from India, and the company


seeking
finance?
ESANDA
ESANDA CAN PROVIDE THE MONEY YOU NEED
Hire Purchase
■ Motor vehicles
(new or good used)
■ Business equipment
■ Agricultural plant
■ Domestic equipment
Instalment Loans for
property improvement,
or any useful purpose
Developmental Projects
■ Capital equipment
■ Book Debt financing
■ Mortgages
■ Contracts of Sale
■ Leasing
■ Factoring
ESANDA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
140 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Telephone 63 9261.
313 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telephone 2 3031.
316 Murray Street, Perth.
Telephone 21 5553, 23 2450.
273 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
Telephone 8-4913/4.
1 Criterion Street, Hobart.
Telephone 3-3679.
M.L.C. Building, London Circuit,
Canberra. Telephone J-4040.
Room 209, 2nd Floor, Caltex House,
167 Kent Street, Sydney. Telephone 27-5334, 27-5461.
ELFI
has sought tariff protection, gut-
come of which is still pending. The com-
pany claims that with the most modern
equipment available, its jute mills are
producing “in a manner equal to any
in the world”.
Particularly towards the end of the
year under review the demand for car-
pet yarns increased, and the jute equip-
ment and viscose unit were both working
double shifts. This and the statement
that governmental bodies were still using
considerable quantities of local canvas,
were the two brightest notes in the chair-
man’s annual address.
The extension to NSW by the Bentley
takeover was made with the aim of
exchanging technical knowledge and of
rationalising the production, marketing
and administrative facilities.
The company’s 10s. shares were sup-
ported by 14s. lid. of net tangible assets,
prior to the Bentley purchase. At 18s.,
they yield 5 p.c., which is pretty fine
considering the industry’s immediate
prospects. The company surprised with a
one-for-five bonus in 1959, so trimming
the fat off reserves.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARIES £’ooo
February 28 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 715 876 881 1420 1090
less current liabilities 350 425 452 842 521
Working capital 365 451 429 578 569
Fixed assets 898 872 875 948 988
Investments 53 103 213 64 64
Total capital 1316 1426 1517 1590 1621
Rpnvpspntpri hv
Ordinary capital 903 903 1084 1084 1084
Reserves 413 523 433 506 537
1316 1426 1517 1590 1621
Depreciation 53 53 51 64 52
Taxation 83 119 115 121 67
Net Earnings 139 192 187 179 128
Dividends 81 81 98 98 98
Surplus 58 111 89 81 30
Earn, rate p.c. 15.4 21.2 17.3 16.5 11.8
Div. rate p.c. 9 9 9 9 9
Dividend yield (a) 4.3 3.9 4.5 5.0
High price (b) 19/4 16/6 23/ 28/6 20/6
Low price (b) 14/6 14/6 15/5 22/ 16/6
(a) July 31, end of month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.
PAINTS THAT RESIST
WATER AND HEAT
HHaubmans Industries Ltd has evolv-
ed special paints that will withstand
a temperature of more than 200 deg.
Fah., will adhere to masonry surfaces
literally oozing water, and a one-coat
white finish that will obliterate stains
left by soot, grease and water seepage on
concrete walls.
Internal repainting of Sydney’s Pyr-
mont power house took between 800 and
900 gallons of material, which was laid
on mainly by brush by a team of 12
men in 12 weeks. Painting was carried
out without interruption to the power
house operations.
About one-third of the total gallonage
was an aluminium paint specially for-
mulated for coating heavy structural steel
framework in close proximity to the
boilers.


FINANCE
CORPORATION
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in South Australia)
FULLY SECURED
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
m
PER ANNUM 10 YEARS
per annum mtmm
5f%
PER ANNUM 2 YEARS
Prospectuses should be
obtained from and applications made to: —
JOINT BANKERS TO THE ISSUE
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
Members of the Stock Exchanges
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney,
Brisbane, Perth
Applications for Debenture Stock can be accepted only
on the printed form attached to the prospectus.
T 429
Ins i ANT £.N*jiNE STARTING
WITH - rn
if
Avoid unnecessary engine
wear—just one quick spray
into the air intake is al!
that's required. Saves money
by avoiding cylinder scour-
ing and gives longer battery
and starter life. Contains
anti-corrosive and anti-knock
additives with upper
cylinder lubricant.
Proven the world over and endorsed
by Rolls Royce.
Lass than 2d. per start —Aerostart is available at only 21/6 from all garages and stores
Manufactured by:
AEROSTART (ANZIA) PTY. LTD.
2 Queens Road, Melbourne. 26-4653.
PLANET OIL
HOPES IN
BOWEN BASIN
rpo many shareholders it has always
seemed that Planet Oil was a little
too anxious to go into action in the arid
oil regions of the southern States and
not anxious enough to probe its northern
territories whose attractions were largely
responsible for the huge success of the
float earlier this year.
Drilling at Anglesea, which is, it
seems, well off structure, and at Bundy
(NSW) another very much wild cat
area, is all very well, but few investors
believe in their hearts that these areas
will reveal commercial fields.
On the contrary, the chances of
striking oil in the Bowen Basin (Queens-
land) are rated much higher, so interest
in the shares of Planet, which has now
announced it will drill there early in
October, has been heightened, though
October still seems a long way off to the
share market.
Planet’s übiquitous and knowledgeable
chairman, Mr J. G. Fuller, says the
company will first test the Permian
rocks in a closed structure at Warrinilla
(Bowen Basin), though the exact site
selection would be left to the company’s
consultant, Mr P. Porter, president of
De Golger and Macnaughton, when he
visits the area in September. The well
would go down to 7000 ft and would
be drilled under contract.
Planet’s other imminent well at East
Maitland (NSW) will not be started until
drilling finishes in the combined Planet-
Oil Development well at Anglesea.
Another company testing Permian
rocks is Farmout Drillers NL which
has established a record in getting into
action after its successful (though not
rewarding to stags) recent float. The
company’s first well, Stockyard Mountain
No. 1, was spudded-in at Shellharbour
early this month. The structure is
believed to be about six miles long,
extending from the Minnamurra River
to the southern shore of Lake Illawarra.
In the event of finding oil at Stock-
yard Mountain, Farmout Drillers re-
ceives 45 p.c. of the benefits. The
remainder would be shares by Con-
solidated Oil (40 p.c.) and Woodside
(Lakes Entrance) (15 p.c.), from which
Farmout secured its agreement to drill
the well.
Union-Kern - AOG are now in the
target area of Moonie No. 5 well, which
is being drilled to test the width of the
Moonie structure and results should be
available this week. In the meantime
the spudding-in of Moonie No. 6, half
a mile from Moonie No. 2, is imminent.


THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria under the “Companies Act 1890”) HEAD OFFICE: 335-339 Collins Street, Melbourne
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
1. The Board of Directors submits to the Stockholders the accompanying
Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account for the year ended 30th June,
1962, with Auditors’ Report.
2. The Net Profit amounts to £618,712 10 8
to which is added amount brought forward .. .. 359’321 16 10
Making a total of £978,034 7 6
From this amount the Directors have made the following
appropriations, viz.:—
To Reduction of Bank Premises £75,000 0 0
” Interim Dividend on Preference Stock at 2 %
paid February, 1962, in Australian
Currency 42,347 0 0
” Interim Dividend on Ordinary Stock at 5%
paid February, 1962, in Australian
Currency 205,293 8 0
' 322,640 8 0
leaving a balance of £655,393 19 6
which it is proposed to apportion as follows:
To Final Dividend on Preference Stock at 2%
in Australian Currency .. .. .. £42,347 0 0
„ Final Dividend on Ordinary Stock at 5%
in Australian Currency .. .. .. 205,293 8 0
” carry forward to next year .. .. .. 407,753 11 6
£655,393 19 6
3. During the year, Branches have been opened at 111 William St.,
Melbourne in Victoria and Hermit Park in Queensland. The Agencies at
Longwarry in Victoria; Pennant Hills in New South Wales; Glynde in South
Australia; North Lambton Quay (Wellington), Papanui and Sydenham in New
Zealand have been converted into Branches.
4. The Commercial Savings Bank of Australia Limited, a wholly owned
subsidiary, was incorporated on 4th May, 1962, for the purpose of under-
taking savings bank business. As at the 30th June, 1962, £1,000,000 capital
was subscribed by the Bank and the new Savings Bank commenced
operations on 2nd July, 1962.
5. Two Directors retire at this Meeting, viz., Mr. V. Y. Kimpton and Mr.
I. L. Webb. They are eligible for re-election and have given the necessary
notice of candidature
6. Owing to his temporary absence abroad, Mr. G. L. Allard tendered his
resignation as an Auditor of the Bank, and the Directors appointed Mr.
Russell Henry to fill the casual vacancy thus created. The Meeting will be
required to appoint two Auditors for the ensuing twelve months.
For Dividend purposes, the Transfer Books will be closed from 5 p.m. on
Bth August to 23rd August, 1962, inclusive.
By Order of the Board,
H. F. CLARKE,
General Manager.
Melbourne, 26th July, 1962.
Balance Sheet of THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED as at 30th JUNE, 1962
( Expressed to the nearest £ in Australian Currency)
LIABILITIES
Authorised Capital— £
300,000 Preference Shares 0 f £lO each .. .. .. 3,000,000
14,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 10/- each .. .. .. 7,000,000
10,000,000
Issued and Fully Paid Capital—
-211,735 Preference Stock Units of £lO per unit .. ... 2,117,350
8,211,736 Ordinary Stock Units of 10/- per unit .. .. 4,105,868
Paid-up Capital 6,223.218
Reserve Fund, including Share Premium Account, £1,260,000
(used in the business of the Bank) .. .. .. .. 3,610.000
Final Dividends proposed payable, August, 1962 .. 247.641
Balance of Profit and Loss Account .. .. .. .. 407,753
Total Stockholders’ Funds .. 10.488.612
Balances due to Other Banks .. .. .. 7,353
Deposits, Bills Payable and all other Liablities, including
provisions for Contingencies 251.308.859
Deposits of Subsidiary Companies—
C.B.A. Nominees Pty Ltd. .. .. .. 100
The Commercial Savings Bank of Australia Ltd. .. ... 1,000,000
262 804,924
Contingent Liabilities on Letters of Credit, Drafts, Guarantees
and Othei Engagements .. i 1,568,960
’£2 73.973,884
ASSETS
£
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at Bankers .. 16.208,881
Money at Short Cali Overseas .. .. .. .. .. 4,250,000
Australian Public Securities —
lai Commonwealth and States—
(i) Treasury Bills (at face value) .. .. .. 2,000.000
(ii) Other Securities (at or under market value) .. .. 33,720,490
(b) Local and Semi-Governmental Authorities (at or under
market value) .. .. .. .. .. 486,732
Other Public Securities (at or under market value) .. .. 1,192,601
Other Securities (at or under market value) .. 1,422,926
Loans to Authorised Dealers in the Short Term Money Market .2,430,000
Statutory Reserve Deposit Account with Reserve Bank of
Australia . . . . . .... .. 20,369,000
Cheques ana Bills-of Other Banks and Balances with and due
from Other Banks .. .. .. .. .. 16,734,857
Loans, Advances and Bills Discounted (after deducting pro-
visions for debts considered bad or doubtful) .... .. 132,366,368
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites (at , cost less amounts
written off) .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 6,466,979
Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit . . .. .. 23,559,946
Shares in wholly-owned Subsidiary Companies (at cost)
C.B.A. Nominees Pty. Ltd (The Company has made
neithei profit nor loss) . .. .. .. 160
The. Commercial Savings Bank of Australia Ltd. (The
Company did not commence operations until 2nd July,
1962) 1,060,000
(Each Company’s only asset at balance date was a deposit
witn this Bank as per contra)
All Other Assets .. . . .. .. •• •• 596.044
262,804,924
Contingent Assets including Liabilities of Customers and Others
on Letters of Credit, Drafts, Guarantees, etc., as per
contra .. .. . .. •• 11,168,960
£273,973,884
Profit & Loss Account of THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LTD. in respect of the year ended 30th JUNE, 1962
(Expressed to the nearest £ in Australian Currency)
£
To Expense., Head Office, 816 Branches and Agencies
(including Directors’ Fees £4,500) .. 7,933.195
” Income, Land and Other Taxes .. .. .. .. .. 827,903
” Balance, being Net Profit for the year carried down .. .. 618.713
£9,373~81l
To amounts written off Bank Premises .. .. .. ~ 75.000
” Dividends—
„ Interim paid February, 1962 .. .. ... .. 247,640
Final, proposed payable August, 1962 247.'641
” Balance carried forward .. .. .. .. .. 407.753
£ 978.034
£
By Discount and Interest earned, net exchange, commissions
and other items, after deducting interest paid and accrued
on deposits, rebate on bills current at balance date and
transfers to the credit of Contingencies Accounts (out of
which accounts provisions for all bad and doubtful
debts have been made). . .. .. .. •• •• 9,379,811
£9.379.811
By Balance brought forward from previous year .. .. 359,321
~ Net profit for the year as above .. .. .. .. •• °*8,713
£978.034
By Balance .. . . .. .. • • • • • • • • £407.753
We, HENRY FOLLETT CLARKE General Manager, and RONALD HERBERT SMITH Secretary, of THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA
LIMITED, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the Reserve Fund and accumulated profits are used in the business, and that the accompanying Balance
Sheet and Profit and Loss Account of the Bank are, to the best of our knowledge and belief, correct in every particular.
And we make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act of the Parliament
of Victoria rendering persons making a false declaration punishable for w'lful and corrupt perjury.
DECLARED at Melbourne, in the State of Victoria, this 26th day of July, One thousand nine hundred and sixty-two.
Before me, H. F. CLARKE.
J. B. FENTON. Justice of the Peace R. H. SMITH
We, VICTOR YULE KIMPTON and NORMAND HILL of Melbourne, being Directors of THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED,
declare that in our opinion the foregoing Balance Sheet is drawn up so as ,to exhibit a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs, and
that the Profit and Loss Account exhibits a true and fair view of the results of the business of the Company for the year ended 30th June, 1982.
On behalf of the Board, V. Y. KIMPTON.
Dated at Melbourne this 26th day of July, 1362. NORMAND HILL
AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE STOCKHOLDERS OF THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
In our opinion, the foregoing Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account are properly drawn up in accordance with the provisions of the Companies
Act 1961 relating to banking companies, and so as to give a true and fair view of the state of the affairs of the Bank as at 30th June, 1962, and of the
results of the business of the Bank for th* year ended on that date.
In our opinion, the accounting and other records (including registers) examined b'y us were properly kept in accordance with the provisions of the
Companies Act 1961.
Audited statements were received from Messrs. Jackson, Pixley & Co. relating to branches in the United Kingdom, and returns certified by Managers
and Accountants were available relating to all branches in Australia and New Zealand, none of which was visited by us.
We have received every assistance from Officers of the Bank, and have obtained all the information and explanations we have required.
Mebourne, 26th July, 1962.
E. FOOKES ]
RUSSELL HENRY ]
Chartered Accountants.


Company
Pai
Value
Last
Sale
1961
Prices—
30/7/62
3. 8/62
Div.
Rate
p.c
Div.
Yield
p.c.
Earn.
Rate
p.c.
Earn.
Yield
p.c.
Amalgamated Chemicals
5/
14/3
17/6
17/9
12 y 2
3.5
21.4
6.1
A.W.A
5/
20/4%
20/1
20 3
14
3.5
22
5.5
Ampol
5/
11/4
12 2
12/4
14
5.7
19
7.7
A.R.C
10
46/3
47/
46/3
15
3.2
29.7
6.4
Associated Pulp
29/3
30/1
30/3
—
—
13.6
9
Aust. Chemicals .. ..
10/
30/4 >/ 2
23 9
23/3
12%
5.4
21.5
9.3
A.C.I.
20/
72/6
64/
65/9
8-1/3
2.5
14.5
4.2
Aust. Guarantee . .
14/
13/1
14
15
5.4
19
6.8
Aust. Gypsum
5/
14/3
14/3
14 3
10
3.5
15.9
5.2
A.P.M ..
25/3
24/
24/3
8-1/3
6.8
11.9
9.8
Bank N.S.W
£34
£40
£40%
9
4.4
12.2
6
Bitumen and Oil ..
5/
24/
23/6
23/6
17%
3.7
35.4
7.6
Blue Metal Ind
5/
22/7 V 2
22/3
22 11
15
3.3
27.6
6.2
Bradford Cotton ..
5/ '
7/6
6 9
6/9
10
7.3
11.2
8.1
British Tobacco .. ..
20/
25/
23/6
24/9
9
7.3
9.7
7.8
B.H.P
20/
69/
56/
56/9
61/4
2.2
13.7
6.8
Burns Philp
.. 20/
91/
£5/1/
£5y 4
10
1.9
12.4
2.3
C.S.R
20/
£59y 2 a
53/9
49 3xR
9%
3.9
14.8-
6.1
11/3
10/9
11/1
10
4.5
12.4
5.6
C.I.G
.. 20/
£5
96 /xD
97/
11
2.3
25.3
5.2
Commercial Union
5/
19 3
20/6t
20/
■8%
1.6
18.4
4.6
Concrete Ind.
15/1 y 2
13/
14/3
10
3.5
16.6
5.8
Cox Bros.
5/
7/6
7/3s
7/3
10
6 8
11.8
8.4
C.R.A ..
—
18 6
18/6
12
3.2
—
—
Custom Credit
13/
10 '8
10/11
15
6.9
18.2
8.3
Cyclone
10/
26/
21/
20/6
10
4.9
17.7
8.6
Dalgety-N.Z. Loan
25/
—
38/6f
36/
8
5.4
13.9
9
David Jones
5/
18/9
17/10
17/6
12%
3.5
28.7
6.9
Drug Houses
20 /
69/
70/
69 9
111/4
3.3
17.7
5.1
Dunlop Rubber
35/
40/
42/
10
4.8
16
7.0
Elder Smith
12/
23 9
26/
25 6
10
4.7
12.6
6
Electronic “B”
10/
13/3
16/
16/2
12%
7.8
—
—
Email
5/
7/8
7 '7
7 9
10
6.4
11
6
E.Z. Ind
10/
12/11
12/3
12/3
10
8.2
12.4
10.2
Felt and Textiles ..
5/
■5/ 11
7 7
7/10
10
6.3
13.9
8.9
G. J. Coles
5/
13/6
13 3
13/7
11
4
15.1
5.5
Goldsbrough
28/6
32/
32
8
5
12.6
7.8
H. C. Sleigh
11/
12/
11/11
12%.
5.2
13.4
5.6
Henry Jones
20/
80/
77 '6
73/
10
2.6
28.6
7.5
H. G, Palmer
5/
15/6
17/
17/
12%
3.6
33.4
9.8
Howard Smith
20/
54/
48 '9
48 9
10
4.1
13.6
5.6
Humes
20
70/8
74/6
73/6
14
3.7
.24.6
6.5
I A.C.
5/
13/4
13 6
13 7
11-2/3
6.2
20.6
7.6
I.C.I.A.N.Z
.. 20/
38/
39/9
39/6
7
3.5
9.7
7.2
J. Gadsden
10/
15/3
17/3
18/
8
4.4
10.4
5.7
Kandos Cement
5/
—
19/6
19 5
12%
3.5
13.5
3.8
Kelvinator
.. 5/
18/3
19 1
19/1
15
3.9
28.6
7.5
Lend Lease
5/
20/
16/11
16/7
10
3
21.5
6.5
L. J. Hooker
5/
7/
4 3
4 /3
—
—
1 1 *
1.3
Mercantile Credits
5/
8/8
9/
9 3
10
5.4
16.6
9
McPhersons
20
47/
40/
40/
8-1/3
4.2
12 4
6.2
Minster
10/
62/
75/
75/
20
2.7
40 4
5.4
Moulded Products ..
5/
13/2
12/
13 8
14
5.1
7.8
2.9
Mt. Isa Mines
71/6
70 3
69/6
25
1.8
62.8
Mutual Acceptance
5/
8/10
10 '5
10 8
15
7.1
22.3
10.4
Myer
5/
29/
30/
29/9
16-2/3
2.8
28.3
4.9
National Consolidated
5/
27/
25/6
26/6
20
3.7
35.3
6.6
Olympic Industries
5 '
7/7
9/11
9 9
10
5.1
16.2
8.3
Peters (Vic.i
8/8
7/11
8/
15
3.7
18.9
4.7
p-'trochemcal
20/
26/
27/3
27/3
6
4.4
5.9
4.3
R.M. Concrete
5/
17/4%
16/9
16/9
12%
3.7
22.9
6.8
Reid Murray
5/
5/3
3/6
3/4
9.4
4.5
Repco
5/
12/5
13/8
13/8
10
3.6
17.8
6.5
Rothmans
20/
87/6
72/
72
17 V 2
4.8
33.1
9.3
TIvess
5/
13/
11/8
in 9
12%
5.3
14.4
4.9
Tooth ......
20/
69/
68'6
68/3
13'/ 2
3.9
15.9
4.4
Union Carbide
80/
64 6xD
fi
10
3.4
15 9
5.4
Waltons
5/
13/8
13/9
13/10
12%
4.5
19.7
7.1
Woolworths
5/
15/4
15/10
15/11
12
3.7
15.4
6.8
Wormald
5/
11/10
11/4
11/9
10
4.2
14.2
6.7
W. R. Carpenter
* Estimated on last half-
xR Ex rights,
t Mid price,
a Before share split.
■year’s profit.
30/
34/9
xD Ex divi
s Seller,
b Buyer.
35/
dend
15
2.1
35.1
5.2
SYDNEY
STOCK EXCHANGE
INDICES
Banks
Other
Base
Ail
etc
Finance
Pastoral
Retailers
Metals
Ords*
Industrials
December 22. 1961
. 137.37
541.02
182.31
389.15
604.15
299.07
318 74
July 30. 19F2 . .
. . 157.49
552.51
176.26
365.66
557.87
230.17
303 79
Jlily 31. 19*02 . .
.. 157 63
553.23
176.14
366.32
290.C5
August 1, 1982
.. 157.25
554.11
176.53
367.24
560.63
290.13
303 59
.. 157.20
558.99
176.64
367.20
554.35
291.18
304 71
August 3, 1962 .
.. 158.44
567.10
176.38
368.41
552.69
292.26
305.66
‘Peak
348.46 September 16, I960.
MELBOURNE
STOCK
EXCHANGE
AVERAGE YIELD
ON 100 ORDINARY SHARES
50 Other
Stocks—
Random-^
Div. Yield Earn Yield
sample
Div Yield F,arn
Yield
December
July 30,
July 31,
August 1,
August 2,
August 3,
22, 1901
1962 ..
1962 . .
1962 .
1962 .
19 32 . . .
4.26
4.45
4.45
4.45
4.45
4.42
6.13
6.39
6.40
6.42
6.41
6.37
5.30
5.21
5.22
5.24
5.24
5.22
7.46
2.37
2.30
2.35
2.38
2.50
LEADING SHARE PRICES
MARKETS SHARPEN
THEIR TESTS
npHE sharemarkets flexed their latterly
enfeebled muscles in a brief, pre-
Budget gesture towards the end of
last week, whether of hope or defiance
one could at that stage hardly guess. In
Sydney, Bank Holiday intervened im-
mediately before Budget day, but not
before the ordinary index had inscribed
its first weekly rise for three weeks.
Other exchanges mostly fitted into the
slightly better Sydney-Melbourne pattern.
This evinced a moderate spurt in turn-
over, after a particularly drab and
droopy beginning to the week. Ranges,
however, have displayed no decided
expansion. But quite a few brokers report
a lift in buying orders, so the ruling
thinness could soon be tested by a
genuine demand.
At the time of writing, any effects
of the generally accepted design of the
Budget were not easy to discern. Scepti-
cism and extreme caution have not
vanished from the markets. It therefore
appears, as was fairly obvious last week,
that individually favourable results and
a thoroughly certified recovery will be
necessary to budge prices upwards over
a really wide front.
For the most recent vivid gains came
largely to stocks showing brighter pro-
fits, in these times an old-fashioned and
sober criterion. Under this kind of scrut-
iny, banking and hire-purchase issues
were given a good run. So much so,
that the two sectional indices are the
only main ones standing above the year’s
opening levels.
Hire purchase has naturally received
its fillip from a real flood of better
earnings, capped by Australian Guar-
antee’s striking advance. A more scrupu-
lous attitude to unearned income also
seems to promise greater reliability to
investors.
By and large, in of the Reserve
Bank’s assurances on the September
quarter’s liquidity, banks do not look as
uniformly glamorous as they did, say,
in April. Yet Commercial of Australia
and Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney
spread their influence through the whole
section.
One further distinction the market
appeared to gain and that was a broad-
ly improving tone among leaders. Upon
its endurance may hang much of a
continued frontal drive, since it seems
certain careful selection must survive any
Budget atmosphere whatever. Many in-
vestors hold in mind the marked leader-
haphazardness of recent trading. Their
justified dominance could establish a
proper examination of many good-quality
industrials in terms of the coming eco-
nomic facts of life.


A. L. NEVITT. DRAPER & CO.
A. L NEVITI. A. C DRAPER.
N. W C. DRAPER
iMembers oi Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building.
297 Queen Street. Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address; “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH.
& Denham Street. Phone 6089
PATRICK & COMPANY
vi mbers <>l the Svdne.v Stock Exchange
Delfin House.
16 O’Connell St.. Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines)
Prudential Building.
150 Queen St.. Melbourne
67-5957 (4 lines)
Telegrams and Cables.
Mlosdale” Sydney Melbourne
or Wollongong
LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Sixth Floor.
56 Hunter Street Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
telephone HW 5721
telegrams and Cables:
‘LAGRAM.” Sydney.
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
Members of Sydney Stock Exchange
W. KEITH YUILL—KEITII C. PHILLIPS
lAN C. WALTON—GORDON G. KING
WALTER 1. SUMMONS
WILLIAM S. SHUGG
(non-member partner)
33 BLIGH STREET. 2-0137
84 William Street, Melbourne. 67-5089
340 Queen Street, Brisbane. 31-2191
Telegrams and Cables: “Ralpliking”
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Grafton
and Tamworth
tu
oil the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM 2001.
ONE TO BUY.
SEBELS (AUSTRALIA) LTD
A compact little company with the
seeds of growth is the Sydney-based
Sebels (Australia) Ltd. Formed in 1951
to make and market tubular steel furni-
ture and toys made in England by D.
Sebel and Co Ltd, it is now 100 p.c.
controlled by Australian interests, but
technical liaison is maintained with the
English company.
Toys were gradually dropped from
production, and the company now con-
centrates solely on furniture. It caters
primarily for the large-user market,
making steel and aluminium chairs and
tables which stack into a small space.
Customers are clubs, hotels, motels,
offices, schools and other institutions.
Sebels is also a major supplier of furni-
ture for the home. All components are
now wholly made in Australia.
Sited on 6f acres of land at Banks-
town, the factory first occupied 77,000
square feet, but in 1961 this was in-
creased to 87,000 sq. feet, with finance
arranged from the City Mutual Life
Assurance Society.
Besides the Sydney headquarters,
Sebels has offices, showroom and a store
in Melbourne it is currently moving
to new premises—and is represented by
agents in other States. Some sales are
made direct to institutions, as well as
through the normal retail channels.
The company maintains a develop-
ment department which produces new
designs and products. Several new pro-
ducts will be introduced soon to in-
crease the company’s market share.
In 1956 Sebels made a one-for-eight
bonus from revaluation of freeholds, in
lieu of a 121 p.c. dividend. The first
cash dividend was paid the following
year at a rate of 10 p.c. on the enlarged
capital of £225,000. The rate was lifted
to 12} p.c. in 1960, and in October
1961, a one-for-nine bonus brought capi-
tal to its present figure of £250,000, all
in ss. ordinary shares.
The calendar year 1961 was not the
happiest for other furniture markets,
but Sebels advanced profit from £46,-
719 to £53,023, representing 22 p.c. on
the bonus-increased capital. The 12} p.c.
dividend was maintained with plenty to
spare.
Latest information from the company
is the interim report for the half-year
to June 30. Directors, speaking con-
servatively and with quiet confidence,
said that profit and sales were comfort-
ably above that of the previous cor-
responding period. Interim dividend con-
tinued the 12i p.c. annual rate.
The company’s managing director has
just returned from a three months’ over-
seas tour. He visited several US plants
as well as the associate company in the
US, and brought back valuable infor-
mation on the latest production tech-
niques and design trends.
From a low-point of Bs. this calendar
year, the ss. shares have received greater
market recognition, and are currently
traded at about 12s. The yield of 5.2 p.c.
is modest, but a purchase now should
still be rewarding. The company im-
presses as a well-rounded organisation.
"PR STILL
EYED WITH
SUSPICION"
Howard & Co., the second
oldest firm of public relations con-
sultants in America—it was established
in 1925—is to open a branch in Sydney.
The present head of the firm, Mr Ed.
Howard, a son of the founder who died
in 1954, will remain in Sydney until the
Australian offices are firmly established.
He said he had found that Australian
public relations compared very favor-
ably with the best in US. The field here,
however, was relatively new, and many
well-established conservative companies
still eyed PR with suspicion. But this
was precisely the kind of company that
could gain the greatest benefits from PR
work, because almost invariably they had
fascinating stories that were not get-
ting through clearly to shareholders,
employees and the public.
Mr Howard said public relations was
edging toward professional standing, but
it certainly was not there yet.
“There are no minimum standards for
admission to practice,” he said. “Anyone
can hang out a shingle—in Australia, or
in the US—and unfortunately the term
public relations is used to cover a wide
range of both sins and blessings, as well
as a certain amount of nonsense.
“One of the true keys to a profession,
however, is a code of ethics that comes
above personal gain for the practitioner.
In this respect, public relations societies
have made some headway, though their
codes don’t as yet have any teeth in
them. Ethics is an important point.
“As public relations techniques con-
tinue to be refined and made more pre-
dictably effective, there is reason to be
concerned about who is using them, and
for what ends. This is essentially a busi-
ness of changing people’s beliefs, which
is too powerful a tool to be used without
intelligence and responsibility.”


STOCK OPTIONS
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
11th Floor, Pearl Assurance Building
151 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
Phone 67-8011
BRANCH OFFICES
Sydney: 383 George Street 29-7865
Adelaide: 61 Gawler Place, 8-7407
Brisbane: 334 Queen Street 31-1621
Canberra: 8.M.1. Alinga St., 4-3334
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
All Offices: “Options”
Write or Phone for Free Brochure
and Current Price Schedule.
FOR CALL OPTIONS
CALL STOCK OPTIONS
Speculator's Diary
T'Fhat grisly old market began to give
A the sort of grunts last week that
made it sound as though it might finally
be coming to life again. Its change in
tone was barely perceptible, but that’s
what I liked about it just a gradual
change from slow astern to slow ahead.
Admittedly, by the time you read this,
things could have been changed again
by the Budget. Actually it’s not the
Budget I’m worried about doubtless
Mr Holt will be quoting Li’l Abner and
telling us that the country’s in the very
best of hands. What does worry me is
the reaction to the Budget by the
“Sydney Morning Herald”.
Whether we like it or not (and most
of us don’t), the SMH is a power in the
land. And, if as seems likely, the Budget
does very little, the SMH will be telling
us in no uncertain fashion that the
country is going down the drain and the
Government won’t do a thing about it.
Then, in the next week or two, its pro-
prietors will unblushingly announce a
handsome increase in their own profit,
regardless of the “depression-ridden”
state of the economy. Inconsistency, of
course, has never worried the SMH.
Last week, for instance, in its endeavours
to discredit Mr Bury, the “Financial
Review” actually let itself say that every-
thing in the economy was all right. I
quote, “. . . business confidence in the
short term is high and most business-
men expect their operations to increase
in the next six months or so”. What
was that old saying about how you
can’t fool all of the people all of the
time? Still, I mustn’t be rude about the
SMH and its directors: I’ll leave that to
the Sydney “Daily Mirror”.
Meanwhile, I’ve been very worried
about the way the authors of certain
of these private investment services have
been “swimming against the tide” lately.
A week or two ago, one of these
services found itself “swimming against
the tide” not once, but twice in the one
issue. Next week it was still swimming
bravely against the same tide but it had
been joined in the same cliche by a rival
publication. Now, gentlemen, this sort
of thing can reach epidemic proportions
if we all go swimming in this chill winter
weather, particularly against the tide. We
don’t want to go catching colds, do we?
So I trust we’ll be on dry, warm land
again next week.
Back on the share market, I was
having a suspenseful week. Burns, Philp
was playing a tantalising game by not
coming forth with its consolidated
accounts. O’Donnell Griffin was still
moving steadily ahead and Malleys
looked ready to take a jump. Auto-
mobile and General Linance had also
overcome its curious reaction to the
announcement of its 86 p.c. earning rate
and was back up to 275. again. In fact
all the finance companies had turned
in such good results that I bought some
Linance Corporation of Australia.
LCA has yet to announce its result but,
if its competitors are any guide, it should
be a good one. So I bought 200 at
225. 6d.
Then, on Wednesday we had CSR on
the market ex-rights for the first time.
When the shares fell down below 505.,
even I thought it was time I bought
some. Now, I know I’ve been critical
enough of CSR at one time or another
but why should its price be so weak
just when its fortunes are beginning to
look up again. Profit rose by 20 p.c.
last year and I wouldn’t be surprised to
see a similar increase this year. The
record Queensland sugar crop, which has
all been sold, alone should ensure a
good result. At the same time building
materials should be picking up and the
chemical division should receive the
benefit of some degree of tariff protec-
tion. Already the board has demon-
strated its confidence by paying a final
dividend of 5 p.c. for the past year and
this could indicate a 10 p.c. rate for
1962-63 So that at 495., CSR yields
4 p.c.
These purchases, on top of those last
week, my indebtedness up to
£877, There seemed little alternative
but to sell Swan Brewery, much as I
like the look of its biofi tax provision.
BOUGHT
200 at 22/6 £230
100 CSR at 49/- £229
SOLD
400 Swan Brewery at 19/6 .... £390
This meant I was still short of £487
in cash. Maybe Burns, Philp will come
to the rescue during the week. Other-
wise something liTtce Ready Mixed Con-
crefe will have to go. By week s end the
portfolio was worth a net £7,100 and
consisted of these shares:
Cost Cur-
Xo. of Name of Date Per rent
SfTares Company Bought Share Price
60p O’Donnell Griffin 28/8/61 13/6 19/-
1,69,6 United Motels 20/11/61 3/9 4/3
2§6 Beau Monde 8/12/61 25/- 35/-
400 Auto and General
Finance 8/2/62 19/9 27/6
500 Mauri Bros. 16/2/62 22,9 23/3
800 Goodwins 21/3/62 5/9 6/2
500 Ready Mixed 6/4/62 17/9 17/3
75 MLC 27/4/62 130/- 135/-
400 Malleys 3/5/62 20/9 22/-
500 Merica 10/5/62 7/- 7/6
1,000 Hanimex 23/5/62 4/11 6/1
300 National Consol. 30/5/62 26'1 26/-
300 Marcus Clark notes 22/6/62 27/6 29/6
200 Barrett Burston 28/6/62 21/- 22/6
100 James Hardie 29/6/62 98/- 102/6
100 John Lysaght 18/7/62 64/- 65/6
100 Burns, Philp 19/7/62 102/- 105/-
400 Courtaulds 24/7/62 11/9 11/6
100 CSR 1/8/61 49/- 49 3
200 FCA 2/8/62 22/6 22/6
£320,000 ALUMINIUM
PLANT COMPLETED
11/ork of installing a new 2200-tons
fully automatic hydraulic press for
the production of aluminium rods and
sections in the new Huntingdale (Vic.)
factory of Aluminium Extrusions Pty
Ltd has been completed at a cost of
£320,000, and the plant is now in
production.
Aluminium Extrusions Pty Ltd, is a
recently formed subsidiary of Metalex
Pty Ltd, a member company of NKS
(Holdings) Limited.
Mr Bernard G. Ross, managing direc-
tor of the NKS manufacturing subsidi-
aries, said that Aluminium Extrusions
had already achieved a volume of sales
that exceeded expectations, and the
company was now at a stage where it
should make a useful contribution to the
profits of the parent company.
KWINANA EARNS £32.5m.
IN FOREIGN EXCHANGE
¥>p’s oil refinery at Kwinana, one of
the largest in Australia, has a
rated through-put of almost 3J million
tons of crude oil each year.
Not all of Kwinana’s production is
used by its marketing associate, BP
Australia. A world wide export trade
has been developed by the Kwinana
refinery, and these shipments are
making a vital contribution to Aus-
tralia’s national economy.
Refined petroleum products are
being exported throughout the world,
from nearby New Zealand to far away
Canary Islands and the Republic of
Senegal.
In the last two years to June 30 last,
3,234,680 tons of high-quality refined
petroleum products were exported.
These shipments have resulted in
foreign exchange sales of £323 million.


k
mmm
mvMm
mm
•>v>
mm
:■ :
m
m
m
m
m
mist from
sulphuric acid
contact plants
pyrites dust
from turbulent
layer roasters
effluent gases
from sulphuric
add plant
dust from
cement kilns
A
m
&
m
m
m
m
1
HIGH EFFICIENCY ELECTRO-PRECIPITATION BY
SM9iON-CJUSFES
(lAidfadti) Ttu.Jl*nikd
MEMBER COMPANIES
SIMON ENGINEERING LTD
WOGE-CGXmEU
{yAxi&thcJcici) Tti/.J&ituLed
25-31 Wilson Street, Botany, N.S.W. 666-9641
Offices also at:- Melbourne 61-2778, Adelaide 4-1528, Brisbane 2-2457, Perth 21-5661
P6OA


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
FIGHT AGAINST SKELETON WEED
By Mariel Lee
A member of the Vermin and Noxious
Weeds Board, Mr T. Borbidge, re-
cently warned Victorian Wimmera farm-
ers that, if skeleton weed once became
established, they would no longer be able
to grow wheat or graze sheep in the
Wimmera. How, then, was such a
menace allowed to reach Victoria’s rich-
est wheat lands?
Noogoora burr, Californian burr and
devil’s claw, now found growing on
stock routes to Victoria, have been
brought in by sheep from northern
States where these weeds are prevalent.
It is possible that skeleton weed was
similarly introduced.
More likely carriers, however, are
inadequately cleaned railway trucks. A
Wimmera Shire councillor, Mr A. R.
Gross, complained that in the truck from
which he took his bagged superphosphate
was at least a bushel of loose wheat.
This (from who knows where?) could
contain noxious weed seeds, some of
which, clinging to the bags, could in-
troduce a menace to his farm. A fellow
councillor, Mr J. Waters, declared that
hoary cress had been introduced to his
farm on a bale of bags railed to him.
However introduced, skeleton weed
is doubly a menace, for its wind-borne
parachute seeds have a high rate (over
90 p.c.) of germination and new plants
spring from severed root particles dis
persed by cultivation. Its sticky sap clogs
machinery, and it chokes the crop, mak-
ing harvesting difficult, and a good
sample impossible to obtain. And, since
the Wimmera’s low rainfall makes cul-
tivation and fallowing imperative, its
eradication presents extra problems.
Farmers should be alert to mark any
skeleton weed on fallows and avoid
cultivating there. Single plants and small
patches may be eradicated by chemical
treatment of the plant and the soil for
a six inch radius. On no account must
it be allowed to seed. Large infesta-
tions may be controlled by soil sterilants,
but unfortunately these render the area
sterile for up to five years.
An inch layer of salt over the area
has, as in the case of hoary cress, been
found effective, aj has sodium borate,
applied at the rate of one pound a
square yard. A dieseline or power kero-
sene spray also gives results. So does
monuron at the rate of six ounces per
gallon of water.
Most effective so far have been the
chemicals sodium borate and TBA. The
latter may be spot-sprayed at a strength
of two pints to five gallons of water
per thousand square feet, or boom-
sprayed at a concentration of ten gallons
to 30 gallons of water per acre.
TBA, being the cheaper, is preferable,
particularly in sandy soils, where it sinks
down and permits earlier reclamation
with shallow-rooted clovers and annual
grasses. On heavy soils TBA is best
applied in spring and early summer. But,
with present weedicides costing up to
£6O an acre, there is great need for one
effective at, say, one-tenth the cost and,
if possible, one which renders the soil
infertile for a shorter interval.
Experiments are being made at Min-
yip, and the Vermin and Noxious Weeds
Board is appointing a scientist to under-
take skeleton weed research. In conjunc-
tion with the CSIRO, the Board will do
everything possible to eradicate the weed.
Meanwhile, the chairman of the Aus-
tralian Primary Producers’ Union Fed-
eral Wheat Committee, Mr J. R. Mc-
Kindlay, of Echuca, says that hopes are
entertained that an insect found in
Europe and Asia, and said to feed on
skeleton weed, may prove as effective
as cactoblastis was against prickly pear.
Another possibility is that a non-noxious
plant may be found to crowd out skele-
ton weed, But chemical methods, usually
more effective than biological control,
must be developed to the full.
As its contribution to the problem, the
Wheat Research Council has voted
£lO,OOO a year for three years for skele-
ton weed research, and the Victorian
Wheat Committee of the APPU is
giving £7200 to the CSIRO, £9OOO to
the Department of Agriculture and
£7500 to the Lands Department for the
same purpose.
CUT-THROAT BATTLE FOR DRIED
FRUITS MARKET
Australia and Turkey, each with a
huge sultana crop, are battling for
the British dried fruit market. It is ironic
that this cut-throat battle should follow
hard on the heels of the Australian-con-
vened “let’s-be-friends” dried fruits con-
ference at Rome in early July.
Stated object of the conference was to
promote greater co-operation between
the main dried fruit producing countries
among them Australia and Turkey.
But only a couple of days before the con-
ference convened Turkey lived up to its
reputation as the “bad boy” of the dried
fruit world by cutting its price sharply on
the important British market.
The result was disastrous for Australia,
which already faced an uphill struggle in
disposing of its 79,000-ton 1962 sultana
harvest. British sales of Australian sul-
tanas ceased. In at least one week not a
ton of the fruit was sold.
Then Australia hit back and slashed
£l2 10s. (Aust.) off its UK price. Sales
picked up instantly and are now running
at a satisfactory level, although the return
is low and less than one-third of the
anticipated Australian tonnage set aside
for the British market has yet been sold
there.
Meantime Australia, Greece and other
countries are putting heavy pressure on
Turkey in an attempt to get her to restore
the old price level. They claim—perhaps
somewhat with their tongues in their
cheeks—that there is room for all at a
reasonable price. There have even been
hints that America should be prompted
to put pressure on Turkey through her
aid programmes.
Other dried fruit producing countries
are most worried by Turkey's unpredicta-
bility. Dried fruit marketing in Turkey
is controlled almost solely by the expor-
ters —and, it would seem, they do almost
as they like. Producers have little or no
say in the price at which their product
sells.
Turkey’s sultana harvest is still under
way—early season London sales were in
anticipation of the harvest and could
have been a costly gamble had the
weather changed suddenly—but is expec-
ted to total about 85,000 tons.
The important British market absorbs
only about 60,000 tons a year—about
30,000 tons going to the manufacturing
trades and the rest into retail stores.
Australia has traditionally accounted
for about 80 per cent, of the shop sales
of sultanas, but to date has been only a
minor actor on the cheaper manufactu-
ring side.
It is in this manufacturing field that


REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
p.a. for 7 years
5£% p.a. for 12 months
Other rates and terms available see
Prospectus for full details. Your copy
available from all Members of Stock
Exchanges, over 750 branches of the
A.N.Z. Bank Limited and I.A.C.
Branches.
Applications for stock will proceed
only on one of the forms of application
referred to and attached to a printed
copy of the Prospectus.
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
C Registered 19th December, 1929)
Branches ct
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE PERTH
HOBART CANBERRA
Brokers to the Issue: lan Potter & Co., Melbourne. Canberra, Sydney ,
Adelaide and Brisbane.
-TOST
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
Head Office: 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Phone: BWIOII, BW 1012. BW 4991
DIRECTORS:
STRUAN ROBERTSON (Chairman), S. E. A. STIRLING
JAMES H. STEPHENSON, R. G. GALE, RAYMOND S. GOWARD, C.B.E.
A. C. MAITLAND R A. CATLEY
(Managing Director) (Manager)
Branches and Agencies in all States.
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION MERITS YOUR SUPPORT
Australia and Turkey look like having
their greatest tussle. Unfortunately for
Australia it is impossible to market fruit
at two prices. Therefore her price must
be pitched low enough to meet Turkey's
competition in the manufacturing fruit
market, even if by doing so she sacrifices
money in the retail trade.
Turkey's unwillingness to “play ball”
with other producing countries does not
bode well for Australia’s cherished
dream of an International Dried Fruits
Association.
EARLY MATING OF SHEEP
DOES NO HARM
A well-grown ew 7 e lamb in the UK
is generally capable of producing a
lamb of its own when only 12 months
old. but mating is usually delayed until
the following shearling year to allow the
young ewes to complete their growth.
It is usually held that this ensures a
better breeding performance in sub-
sequent years.
Now research at a UK Ministry of
Agriculture experimental farm has dis-
proved this belief. Scottish half-bred
ewes mated with Suffolk rams at seven
months mothered their offspring just as
well as ewes mated as shearlings. And
they were at least as prolific over a
seven-year lambing period.
Although early motherhood temporar-
ily depressed growth rate and also
decreased the weight of the fleece ob-
tained at the first two shearings as com-
pared with shearling ewes, these differ-
ences disappeared after 21 years.
PREVENTING SPROUTING IN
ONIONS, POTATOES
nPiiE effectiveness of ionising radiations
in the prevention of sprouting of
potatoes and onions in storage has been
known for some time through the fund-
amental studies carried out not only in
Britain but also in the USA, France,
Canada and Russia.
Radiation dosages of the order of
10,000 rad are required, but although
this is a feasible proposition technically,
the process is likely to be expensive as
compared with the conventional chemical
methods. The radiation process is also
not quite so flexible in application.
The possibility of successful applic-
ation will vary from country to country
according to the type of storage, market-
ing, economic advantages in avoiding
wastage and preserving solid main crop
potatoes throughout the year.
Studies carried out by the Techno-
logical Irradiation Group of the UK
Atomic Energy Authority suggest that in
Britain the present form of the potato
industry is such that radiation would not
offer any immediate advantages.
Canada, on the other hand, considers
that there could be advantages and has
approved the use of the process from
the wholesomeness point of view.
Radiation dosages of the order ol
8000 to 12.000 rad will prevent sprout-
ing of onions, but dosages of this order
Jo not provide complete control, while
higher dosages cause damage to the
scales of the onion.
Studies with this vegetable are not
nearly so advanced as with the potato
and it is not possible at present to fore-
cast likely commercial application.


Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP TASMANIA
LAUNCESTON DISTRICT REGISTRY
No. M.C. 56 of 1962
Between
KATHLEEN MARY DORIS PLAYFAIR Petitioner
and MILTON PLAYFAIR Respondent
TO: MILTON PLAYFAIR formerly of No. 13
Punch Bowl Road, Launceston in the State of
Tasmania but whose address is unknown. TAKE
NOTICE that KATHLEEN MARY DORIS PLAY-
FAIR. of No. 13 Punch Bowl Road, Launceston in
Tasmania, Ironer, has filed a Divorce Petition
against you on the ground of separation. AND
TAKE NOTICE that if you intend to defend
the petition you must file an answer within 28
days of the publication of this Notice at the
Registry of the Supreme Court of Tasmania,
Macquarie Street, Hobart or at the Launceston
District Registry, Cameron Street, Launceston,
from which address further information can be
obtained, otherwise the Court may hear and
determine the matter in your absence. DATED
this 25th day of July, 1962. —J. V. TANNER,
District Registrar. Douglas and Collins, 15 Pater-
son Street, Launceston, Tasmania. Solicitors for
the petitioner.
MOTOR OVERHAUL
WHILE-U-DRIVE
REFLATES WORN, upper cylds.. main bear-
ings, diffs., gears. SAVE: Rebore. ENDS:
Piston slap, rattles, oil, petrol waste.
RESTORES: New compression, power, top
speed, zip. SAVES: Adds LSD to re-sale value.
GUARANTEED: Up to 25,000 miles Harmless
finest engine, liquid Nu-Metal, or in Tablet
form SIMPLY: Add Re-Nu expanding liquid
Nu-Metal, or in Tablet form to oil, petrol or
plug holes, 4,6, 8 cylds., 60/, 70/, 80/. Testi-
monials, engineers’ reports, free advice avail-
able Open Saturday Distributors required
RE-NU-CO (estab 1932), 58 Swann St. op
Richmond Stn, Vic .JB 1755
I enclose £ for Super Nu-Metal
NAME .
ADDRESS
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP
NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO RONALD WALLACE late of Penshurst.—
TAKE NOTICE that Thelma Lillian Wallace has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2118 of 1962
on the ground of desertion. If you wish to de-
fend you should file an answer at the Divorce
Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie Street, Syd-
ney, by 20th September, 1962, and obtain a copy
of the Petition and Notice of Petition without
charge from E. G. SAYEGH, Solicitor, 133 Pitt
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: JOHN HILTON GREEN.—-TAKE NOTICE
that DOROTHY GREEN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 820 of 1962 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for two years
and upwards. If you wish to defend you riiay
enter an answer, in the Divorce Registry, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, by the 17th
September, 1962, and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from A. J. P. HALL & HALL,
Solicitors, 90 Pitt Street, Sydney.—C. A, H.
HARMS, Registrar.
HELP
all the year round.
Donations: 169 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney. BM 2001. *
Legal Notice
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE
CHANCERY DIVISION
GROUP A
1955 R. No. 805
RE JOHN RYAN Deceased
By an Order of the Chancery Division of
the High Court of Justice dated 22nd October
1956 and made in an • action In the Matter of
the Estate of John Ryan deceased (late of
the Royal' Hospital Chelsea in the County of
London who died on 12th October 1952) Kite
v. Official Solicitor to the Supreme Court of
Judicature 1955 R. No. 805 the following in-
quiry was directed namely:
An Inquiry who upon the death of the
above-named intestate John Ryan on the 12th
October 1952 became beneficially entitled
either absolutely or contingently to any pro-
perty of his as to which he died intestate
and for what estates and interests and in
what shares and proportions and if any such
persons are since dead when they died and if
any such persons died having attained an
absolute vested interest who are their per-
sonal representatives.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all per-
sons entitled under the said Inquiry are to
send by prepaid post to Ivor Mervyn Davies
Esq of 34 Bedford Row, London W.C.I, Eng-
land, so as to reach that address on or before
26th November 1962 their full names addresses
and descriptions and full particulars of their
claims, or in default therof they will be
excluded from the benefit of the said Order
unless the Court or Judge on application
otherwise orders.
Dated this 23rd day of July 1962.
E. R. HEWARD
MASTER
COODE KINGDON COTTON & WARD of 34
Bedford Row, London W.C. 1. Agents for
CHARLES LUCAS & MARSHALL of Newbury,
Berks. Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
Information is particularly sought of the
following persons brothers and sisters of the
above-named deceased: —
Sarah Jane Ryan and Mary Alice Ryan both
born at Hale Prescot Lancaster on 24th July
1859 and 30th December 1860 respectively.
Amelia Ryan, Thomas Ryan and Louisa Ryan
born at Lathom Ormskirk, Lancaster on 11th
Feburary 1865, 21st November 1866 and 6th
August 1868 respectively.
Frederick William Ryan born at Formby,
Ormskirk, Lancaster on 20th May 1870, or the
issue of the above-named persons.
DO YOU LIKE
THE NEW LOOK
Subscription 'Department.
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
Please arrange for my BULLETIN to
be delivered to me each week by
MY NEWSAGENT
BY DIRECT SUBSCRIPTION
Please tick ( y) whichever method of
delivery you prefer
For those desiring direct sub-
scription:
Please find enclosed my cheque/money
ordei tor months subscription to
THE BULLETIN
RATES 'Australia ana New Guinea/: i year—
£2 z2s.; Vs year—£ 1 6s Post free. British
Dominions. £3 6s Other countries: £3 16s.
N.Z SUBSCRIPTIONS (Remit to Box 965,
Wellington. N.Z.): 1 year-£2 12s. (N.Z.
currency); >/ z year— £l 6s. (N.Z. currency).
Pleas? add exchange to cheques .
Perhaps this is the first issue of THE BULLETIN you
have read. But whether you are a new reader or an
old one why don't you make sure of YOUR copy of
THE BULLETIN by ordering it each week? There are
two ways of doing it either through your newsagent
or by direct subscription. The form at left offers you
your choice of method of delivery. You may send us
your name and address and we will arrange for the
newsagent nearest you to deliver your copy of
THE BULLETIN each week and charge it to your account.
Or, if you prefer it, we will mail each week's copy
to your address by direct subscription.
Th.e
Bulletin
Incorporating The Australian Financial Times


Feiffer
GWT 6£T Mf to>ROM6-
1 THWK |TS WONO£RFUG
THAT «foy KIPS Al?e
PROresTl(o<3 A6AItJ.
m ioH*f c&mt
nou Place t
THE RUSSIANS?
iOE
ARF
p\cam
RUSSIANS.
Oom <S£T H 6 I/JROH6-
i pepurn rue apatm
that on/ce shUauomev
OUR Hour H, BUT
MKWT PICKET 516 M
m cßvoesr for m
OF flttlC PF6ATO?
lrilUllJ6
TO TALK.
potOT 6er me w&»J6 -
i FAVOR foil pebate
OF Oils 6EOBAE
POLICIES, &UT WOH'T I
WE HARM
m SEEMIM6
PIVIPEP lU THE
EHES OF THE
REST OF THE
WPREP ?
mo
a6a;n^t
(msf?
pour 6er Me urom6'
I THIUU !T$ WPND6RFOP
THAT MOU uiPe
are prpibtimg
A6AIO- BUT
COUI PM'T POP
fiup w&eLves
ANOTHER Pap?
mr
yjoVLP
mu
me
iw
mv?
1U AW THE STATE PEPAI?TMEIOT
TO [7RAIW UP SU<36ECTIOfOS.
IF (WE CAW OWLW SCT
t#)UTH TO JOIK) IM
Rg£PoN£ißj*e protest
IT CAW TEACH US AU
A VALUABLE IEEEOIO'
pomt eer
MP
' MO
SIR.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 705
ACROSS
I—Disorderly princess’s brittle quality. (9)
6 —One who bends forward from the waist arbour. (5)
9 Yours Truly will name a Chinese dynasty rendered
with lots of flat notes. (3-4)
10— Foreign inn wants one pound, therefore. (7)
11— Father image worshipped by a Japanese structure.
(6)
13—Injure the spirit. (6)
16— Trim and orderly member of the ox tribe. (4)
17— Delight in self just after Thackeray’s novel appears.
(6, 4)
19— Come in tins holding a plays
host. (10)
20— Before backing a mount
wrecked by 16-across. (4)
22 -One mad disorder of an
artist’s creative urge. (6)
23 — Catcall about some fuss
pasture. (6)
26 — Parent having dominion over
one Italian patriot. (7)
27 New England college in the
arms. (7)
29 Love a sister to have a
lonely spring in dry country.
(5)
30— Supported through a dif-
ficulty, the waiter for no man
seen by a Channel port. (5, 4)
DOWN
1 — This makes a distant relative
see him drastically criticise
the American’s final letter.
(10)
2 Where’s the great Chicago
crook? (3)
3 Cash strays in these. (6)
4 The Queen is on leave, there-
fore. (4)
5 China’s tons (anagram). (10)
6 Rigging a comment on the
last Federal election. (8)
7 Tender strife before 1000
give audience to Edward.
(4-7)
8 — Chamber wherein Othello is
upset. (4)
12—Moncrieff news. (4, 7)
14— A good round to blacklist an
author of allegories. (10)
15 — Bankrupt drink in the har-
bour bar. (10)
18 —King George, that is you
across the Channel—how life-
menacingly grave. (8)
21—Formed into a net cast off
with me. (6)
24 Self - introduction by Roy
Rene; that’s the shot. (4)
25 A staff which may trans-
form pale coppers. (4)
28—A turn of the motor man
who’s taken the cloth. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 704


ABLYtf
mm ■
fa®*®® 5
« wig
Si®
1:
extras
s-
st*
j8»
20
-
<o
A>
\
rn
l e
a h
NO
g A
H T s -
Pt I <3
Carlyle E .aiRAS the distinctive American
blend cigarette with so many extras
EXTRA FLAVOR: Carlyle Extras give you that extra mellow
flavor of fine costly tobaccos — blended to taste so good.
EXTRA FRESHNESS: Carlyle Extras are the genuine American
blend made right here in Australia for unimpaired full freshness.
EXTRA SIZE: Carlyle Extras are 18% bigger — make regular
American size look small. Enjoy extra smoking pleasure in Carlyle Extras size.
Only Carlyle could . . ,
taste so good it’s blended
'with just
a touch
of Turkish
World Copyright
MANUFACTURED FOR THE AMERICAN CIGARETTE COMPANY (OVERSEAS) PTY. LTD.
CE.113.8.62
