

The Bulletin
tit nii-.LtUuu, jur U UIIZ'I’-ZS :i'ju rj-ij jjij&c a ittrWSJJUpCT^
ONE SHILLING
JUNE'I6
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
CENSORSHIP
Changing Manners and Morals
• R. G. MENZIES
An English View
• PARIS NEWSLETTER
From Neil Mclnnes
• THAT CERTAIN BOOK
Harry Messel's Canadian Boyhood


5 GOOD
REASONS WHY
I ALWAYS USE
PIPF
■ K mm
PROP
V
i
*»
Hli
V
m
• No other pipe has greater strength. Steel pipe is not
fragile or susceptible to damage by stock or fire, so can be
laid above ground, saving cost of trenching. It also with-
stands far greater pressures and that's important, too.
• Steel pipe lasts longer. Steel pipe doesn't deteriorate in
sunlight or with exposure, is not damaged by termites or
rodents. Its inherent strength enables it to withstand all
sorts of external impacts undamaged.
• Steel pipe costs less. On account of its much longer life
and comparatively low initial cost, I have found steel pipe a
far more economical buy than any other type of pipe-and
I've tried them all.
• Steel pipe is easy to instal, handle or store. Steel pipe,
being so sturdy can be surface-laid, then dismantled and
relaid in a new location or stored without risk of damage
in handling.
® Steel pipe has so many uses. Its inbuilt strength and rigidity permit a wide
variety of uses, not practical for other fragile or flexible types of pipe, such
as vertical and overhead installations. That's why I say, "Give me steel pipe
every time."
FOR GREATER STRENGTH . . . LONGER LIFE . . . EXTRA VALUE - INSIST ON STEEL PIPE
STEWARTS and LLOYDS (Distributors) PTY. LIMITED
BRANCHES: All Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong,
Geelong, Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs. AGENCIES: Cairns, Mackay, Kalgoorlie.
55A.3.62


R. G. MENZIES Page 20
An English View
•
Film Censorship Changing
Manners and Morals 12
Rice and Riches A Look at the
Kimberleys 16
No Chicken Feed for Mr Carey 18
Tradition of Gorgeous Leg Pulls
From Neil Mclnness in Paris .... 22
Good on You, Sport—Are We a
Sporting Nation? 23
South Africa The Anti - Sabotage
Bill 24
Those Wall St Blues After “Black
Monday” 25
Kenya Mboya and Kenyatta 26
USSR Strangers in Dubna 26
Australia Literature and
Colonialism 27
Melbourne’s Golden Mile Under-
ground Railway 40
Queensland’s Record Cane Crop 53
Martin Long’s Film Festival 55
That Certain Book—Harry Messel’s
Canadian Boyhood 58
•
NATIONAL NOTEBOOK 4
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
AROUND MELBOURNE 11
OUT AND ABOUT 16
PARIS NEWSLETTER 22
SPORTING NOTIONS 23
OVERSEAS 24
FORUM 27
LETTERS 30
WILD CAT 32
SPECULATOR S DIARY 52
MAN ON THE LAND 53
REVIEWS 55
RED PAGE 58
FEIFFER 63
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY. LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George St., Sydney
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521: Phone 27-5971
Melbourne: Phone MF3341. Brisbane: Phone
B 2691. Adelaide: Phone W 4121-3
Vol. 84
No. 4296
THE SAD END OF JAMES BOND
news last week that the Federal Customs, possibly inspired by
similar action in Rhodesia (!), has banned the latest James Bond
thriller (“The Spy Who Loved Me” by lan Fleming) underlines once
again one of the weaknesses of the Australian censorship apparatus that
none of the Federal-State Conferences have yet touched on and high-
lights a danger that a lot of the sweet talk about uniformity between the
States and the Commonwealth may be glossing over. The recent
conference concluded, as the one a year ago did, with public statements
to the effect that “consultative procedures” would be adopted to ensure
that the State Police would not prosecute a bookseller for selling a book
which had been cleared by the Federal Customs without first talking
the matter over with Federal authorities. No doubt in practice this may
prevent a few prosecutions; it may also mean that State authorities
will form such a pressure group on the Federal censors that they will
end up lowering Federal standards to that of, say, the Victorian Vice
Squad.
At first glance this may look harder than it sounds because it would
mean so frequently reversing the decisions of the Literature Censorship
Board (as happened in the case of “Lady Chatterlev’s Lover”) that the
Board would look ridiculous and may even be forced to resign. As the
Fleming case shows however—and this is the point that the conferences
do not appear to discuss—the Federal authorities can in practice easily
side-track the Board. They can ban books in two ways. Works of serious
literature must be referred to the Board for a decision and if banned
there is an appeal both to the Appeal Censors and to the Courts.
But works of little or no literary importance can be banned by Customs
Officers without reference to the Board, on the ground of their “undue
emphasis on sex, horror or violence. This is what happened to Fleming’s
novel. From such bans there is no appeal either to the Appeals Censor or
to the Courts. And the basic decision how to classify a book is made
by the Customs Officers.
Until the regulations are amended to make possible appeals from the
decision of Customs Officers about “undue emphasis”, the shadow of the
Victorian Vice Squad will continue to hang over Australian censorship.
After all, Australia and Rhodesia!
A CHANGE OF NATIONAL IMAGE?
dramatically Australia’s image—bf itself and to the world-lias
changed in the last 12 months! Little more than a year ago
Territories Minister Paul Hasluck went to Hollandia for the inauguration
of the New Guinea Council. Last weekend another member of
Cabinet—Defence Minister Athol Townley—was in Bandoeng where he
watched the Siliwangi Division on manoeuvres. While he watched,
Dutch marines were attacking Indonesian paratroopers in West New
Guinea.
What has happened to us as a nation? While it is always sensible
to reverse a basic policy in the light of new events there is a right and
wrong way of doing it. We seem capriciously to have chosen the
wrong way without regard to national prestige or dignity.
It is now regrettably clear that continued Dutch occupation of
West New Guinea cannot bring the Dutch or ourselves anything but
trouble. The Dutch must go as they realise themselves. But why
the unseemly haste in Canberra to drive the point home? Why does
a Minister of State have to visit Djakarta at this time and thus give
the impression that it is quite all right by Australia if Indonesia does
commit aggression and thereby breaks its solemn word to a friendly
neighbor?


National
Notebook
All Chooms Together
T AST week an interstate visitor to Syd-
ney asked a question which has set
us thinking about the language problem
that occurs in the capital cities at this
time of the year. A northern visitor to
Melbourne finds his traumatic experience
in new posters which declare “Demons
Down Saints”. But this is clarity itself,
compared to the “CHOOM CLAIMS
BIJ'E” poster which stopped our Perth-
to-Sydney visitor in his tracks. “What
on earth,” he asked, “is a choom?”
As far as we know it is the generic
name for the touring England Rugby
League footballers, whose habits and
customs have more than occasionally
swept Mr Menzies and our Common
Market troubles off the front page since
the team's arrival.
These “chooms” winter in Sydney and
Brisbane every so often, at the expense
of local Rugby League followers with
masochistic tendencies, who pay eagerly
to see Australians drubbed. As a re-
ward, an Australian team is allowed to
wallow in the English mud two years
later.
Often these friendly international
matches turn into running brawls, hut
England’s first big match (his season
was a running, jumping and standing one
—the lot. It was not a reflection of
present Commonwealth dissension,
though. England had been forced to
accept five per cent, less money for this
tour, and to a Lancashire man that means
war. England's fight with NSW ended in
a draw, with three players from each
team sent off the field. The purely
incidental points score was 33 to 28 in
England’s favor.
After that it was a crowded week. A
“choom” claimed to have had the bite
put on him in a match at Newcastle. An
afternoon newspaper gave his dented
profile bigger page 1 display than Liz
Taylor at her zenith. England, off
the front page for a whole after-
noon, fought back by not only re-
fusing to attend a dinner but also
threatening to cancel a match against its
would-be host, a district football club
named, of all things, St. George. The
England manager reported that he had
been called an Australian Word. Back
on page I!
At that stage, non-afficionados could
be excused for believing that all of this
hooroo was being staged to ensure a
good gate. It was not. A sellout gate
of £30,000 was certain a week before
the first Test. It was merely the normal
behavior of England’s sons preparing to
defend the Ashes, Rugby League style,
with blood, sweat and fists. It was for
England’s sake, and honor’s—and be-
cause of that roody, blank itty five per
cent.
But after all the headlines, Saturday’s
Test was a decorous affair, and a run-
away win for England.
Having a yap
llThen we talked to American popular
” singer, Miss Frances Faye in her
dressing-room at Chequers, Sydney, she
.had just finished a phone-call to her
home in Hollywood. She rings each week
to have a yap, as it were, to her four
French poodles. "The housekeeper puts
them all on the phone one at a time,”
Miss Faye said. “They can all recognise
my voice and they understand everything
I say, even on long-distance.” Miss Faye
then whipped out the family snapshots,
including one of Mr Jeff, a miniature
poodle which full-grown weighs only
three pounds. “I can fit him in my
handbag," Miss Faye said; "but I couldn't
bring him here even in a handbag, be-
cause of quarantine.”
Miss Faye did, however, bring her
drummer, Eddie Grady, who w-as for
two years drummer to Frank Sinatra,
and who has played with Bennie Good-
man. Tommie Dorsey and Glenn Miller.
Mr Grady s job, as well as playing, is
to keep the band up with Miss Faye’s
singing and piano playing, because she
is an inveterate improviser and will break
off at any point in a song to tell her
audience that she “may not be beautiful,
but she really is wild.”
Miss Faye may not be beautiful but
with tomato-red hair, skilfully dyed, and
inch-long false eyelashes, probably made
of fencing-wire, she is well worth a
second glance. Miss Faye says that since
she had an accident three years ago she
can no longer run wild. “I was seven
hours on the table afterwards, darling,”
she said. "They took out my hip-bone. I
was a year in bed. Now I m on one stick
at last, but I’m in eonstam pain Work
is my therapy. It keeps me going Still,
I don't mind the quiet life I don't smoke
or drink, you know, and I don't go to
night-clubs except to work, of course.”
Drink To Me Only
VTeteran Darwin transport operator
Ted Stiles has come out squarely
on the side of the drinker. Recently he
advertised a £4O a week job for a
“hard-drinking” diesel mechanic. Stiles
(who described himself as “a moderate
drinker—maybe 25 to 30 beers a day”)
has no use for cold-water men. He is
prepared to interview teetotallers —but
will promise them only £25 a week.
Stiles’ advertisement caused quite a
commotion in thirsty Darwin. A couple
of weeks earlier there had been wailing
at the bar in the Hotel Darwin and
“The Vic.” over an advertisement in-
serted by one Bill Burrows. Burrows is
a teetotaller. He also is proprietor of a
big drilling company and had advertised
a job for a mechanic offering a base
rate of £35 a week —plus £2O a week
extra for non-drinkers.
The Bulletin’s man in Darwin inter-
viewed Stiles the day after his advertise-
ment appeared. Stiles was holding the
floor in "Stilesie's corner” of the Hotel
Darwin front-bar, surrounded by his
drivers, w'ho were busily engaged in
“cutting out a tenner” (it took them
about 2 hours 10 minutes). “Look al
them,” said Stiles. “The greatest bunch
of boozers in town. But a man couldn't
get better workers.”
Stiles’ advertisement brought a flood
of replies. One phone-caller, in a thick,
slurred voice, said: "I’m your man. I’m
a drunken mechanic.” “Full as a bull,”
Stiles commented later.
Katherine, a town with a reputation
lor ratbag humor, weighed in strongly.
One wire, signed “Chisel,” read: '‘Apply-
ing for drunken pay. Contact me Kirby's
hotel.” Another invited Stiles to "take
his pick” from Tom Cutler, Tappy Webb.
Charlie Hogan, Laurie Little, Ferre!
Shepperd, Porky Edwards and Quart-Pot
Watts.
So far Stiles hasn't selected a suitable
man for the job. Surveying the pile of
letters, phone-messages and telegrams
this week, he said: “I don’t know. Mosl
of the good local mechanics are already
working for someone else and I Hont
want a no-hoper. I might have to g°
south for the right bloke.”


Collector's Item
Mr. Peter Hostrup-Pedersen, a
director and publicity director of
Georg-Jensen, the Danish silversmith,
arrived in Australia, his first engagement
was to call on the Swedish Ambassador,
Mr Nils Eric Ekblad. However, Mr Ped-
ersen found that Mr Ekblad was spend-
ing a few days in Sydney so a trip to
Canberra was not necessary. “Mr Ekblad
is a good friend to Denmark and a good
friend to our family.” Mr Pedersen said.
Mr Pedersen said that Mr Ekblad was
Swedish representative in Denmark dur-
ing the occupation and helped many
members of the Danish resistance, in-
cluding one of Pedersen’s brothers, es-
cape to neutral territory.
Mr Pedersen’s father was a founder
of Georg-Jensen, and Mr Pedersen’s
two brothers are now with him in the
firm. Jensen’s son, Soren Georg-Jensen,
who gained a high reputation as an artist
and sculptor in Denmark, has recently
joined the firm as art director.
Mr Pedersen told us that the firm
had a staff of about 400, 330 of them
silversmiths. “It is still a silversmithy
rather than a factory,” Mr Pedersen said.
“Although we use electric drills and so
forth, there is no way to speed up work
if we get a rush of orders. A bowl is
shaped by hand exactly the way it was
500 years ago.”
Mr Pedersen, who is in Sydney in
connection with an exhibition of his
firm’s silver at David Jones, said that
Georg-Jensen exported to 14 countries,
but Denmark remained the company’s
best customer. “Every Dane wants good
silver and will collect it piece by piece for
years,” he said. “And they understand
good design. We Scandinavians lean on
our peasant culture. We know that in
the long run the simple, useful article is
the best design.”
In Queensland —licensed
restaurants
TTailed as the beginning of a “new
era” for the Queensland tourist trade,
the licensing of 15 restaurants throughout
the State has been greeted with scepti-
cism by disappointed applicants for
licences—and a demand for a Royal
Commission into the whole affair. Under
an amendment to the Liquor Act, brought
down with considerable trepidation by the
“wowser” - influenced Nicklin - Morris
coalition, 32 restaurants are to be
licensed in Queensland within the next
year or so.
The restaurants are permitted to serve
beer and light wines between noon and
2 p.m. and 6 p.m. and 10 p.m. except on
Sundays. Five were approved for Bris-
bane, three for the Gold Coast, one for
the near north coast; whjle the balance
was distributed around the State west to
and north to Cairns. There
were 80 unsuccessful applicants, of whom
64 ’ accordin § to Licensin S Commission
chairman Kell Y, would again be con-
sidered with other applicants when the
next 17 licences become available.
On the surface at any rate, the Govern-
ment appears to have bought trouble be-
cause of its uncanny aptitude for half-
hefed Lansing of reputable
restaurants to serve wines with meals was
certainlv a lon* overdue reform—hm whv
certainly a overdue retorm but why
only f ° r the Wh °' e State? Why not
make the issue of licences dependent
upo n minimum standards-and then
grant them on that basis? There’s never-
theless one consolation for unlicensed
cafes: if diners bring their own grog they
can drink as long as they like?
Tames
"I WONDER COULD WE GET MENZIES DRESSED UP AS A BEEFEATER"


This Australia
UNIONS
AN HISTORIC FIGHT
AT FORD'S
By MUGGA
ALBERT MONK
Test case ...
A n historic stage in the history of Aus-
tralian trade unionism is being acted
out in the series of bans, legal actions,
stand-downs and stoppages, which fill
out the dispute between the Ford Motor
Company and the Federated Clerks’
Union and which brought the production
lines of the company’s three Australian
plants to a stand-stiff early this week.
Although the first Clerks’ Union
request for 100 per cent, white-collar
unionism with Ford goes back to 1952-3,
the union last year launched a new cam-
paign as Falcon production got under
way. After a decade in which the com-
pany’s share of the Australian market
fell to below 10 per cent., 1961 was a
turning point for Ford as its percentage
share of the market began to recover
with Falcon sales; it was clearly a tactical
time for a unionising campaign.
But any check in the fierce battle of
showrooms would be a grave matter
because ground lost there cannot easily
be recovered. So the question both sides
in the dispute (and Ford’s business rivals)
must have been asking this week was:
How long can Ford stay out of produc-
tion?
The Clerks’ Union has estimated that
only 25-30 per cent, of eligible white
collar workers in Australia are unionised,
and the union’s policy is to build mem-
bership, industry by industry. The auto-
mobile industry came up for treatment
last year and Ford was the obvious
candidate, big enough to set a precedent
and in a vulnerable trading position. At
first Ford refused the union even access
to its plants, but by June it conceded
limited access once a fortnight to the
canteen.
This was unsatisfactory to the union
and negotiations dragged on until break-
down in early September followed by the
first ban by Melbourne waterfront tally
clerks on the handling of Ford cargo.
The Clerks’ Union has aLvays denied
responsibility for the ban, but it was
lifted after a hearing before a Con-
ciliation Commissioner. By agreement
the company issued a circular disclaiming
any anti-union sentiments and union
organisers visited the canteen once a
month.
Out of about 300 clerks they did not
enrol one member. Understandably in
the light of this and what had gone before
the union was sceptical about the com-
pany’s professed neutralism and by
December another ban was imposed on
the waterfront. After a fresh hearing
before Conciliation Commissioner Mr
Finlay the ban was lifted.
The Federal Secretary of the union,
Mr J; ; Riordan, then went to Geelong
and addressed 300 clerks at a mass meet-
ing in the canteen. He has since claimed
that the meeting was stage-managed with
organised walk-outs of sections disrupt-
ing the meeting. He enrolled 17. There
followed a fresh waterfront ban spread-
ing to Sydney to intercept diverted cargo.
In April Conciliation Commissioner
Mr Finlay offered a compromise that
union membership should only be a con-
dition of employment for new clerks.
The company rejected this, but the union
has indicated that it would accept this
as the basis for a compromise. In the
absence of agreement Mr Finlay refused
to insert a bans clause. There were
further talks while the company air-
freighted in fresh parts.
Then early this month the union won
a legal victory in the Commonwealth
Conciliation and Arbitration Commission
when a 2-1 majority rejected an appeal
against Mr Finlay’s decision. Mr Justice
Moore commented that the company had
acted “in an unreasonable way” in
refusing to grant the same privileges to
the Clerks’ Union as held by the Vehicle
Builders’ union and other production
line unions. Since 1949 membership of
these unions has been compulsory for
employees on the production side. Mr
Justice Moore said that refusal to give
the same rights to the clerks could only
have led to industrial trouble.
The Clerks Union’s victory against the
appeal meant that Ford had no legal
way of stopping the ban and had the
alternatives of negotiating its way out,
perhaps on the basis of the new-em-
ployee-only compromise acceptable to
the union, or fighting back by closing
down and letting the wide-spread loss of
employment ultimately bring victory.
The stand-downs began last week while
behind-the-scene negotiations continued.
Legal action by the V.B.U. in the
Commonwealth Industrial Court against
the stand-downs failed. During the hear-
ing the judges of the Full Bench (Justices
Dunphy, Joske and Eggleston) indicated
that in their opinion the company had
behaved reasonably.
Some hotheads among the smaller
craft unions at the plant struck, foolishly,
because by doing so they lost a few days’
pay, rendered themselves ineligible for
social service benefits if the dispute was
extended, and laid their unions open to
penalties. Albert Monk’s ACTU, recog-
nising in it a test case for white collar
unionism in Australia, banned further
action pending a new meeting.
This left the way open for fresh
behind-the-scenes attempts at reaching a
compromise to avert what could be one
of Australia’s biggest industrial disputes
since Queensland Shearers’ strikes of the
last decade. Seven thousand employees
of Ford could be directly affected as well
as thousands in associated industries and
retail outlets.
One side-issue of the strike has been
the boast of ALP left-wingers and Com-
NEXT WEEK'S ISSUE
• SHORT STORY Bernard
Coyle.
• DEAKIN THE DREAMER—
Federation Prime Ministers.
• PEACE MOVEMENTS—
Australian Variety.
® NZ NEWSLETTER—Austra-
lia’s Image in NZ.
• ITALY’S SOUTH—As Bad as
it is Painted?
• THAT CERTAIN BOOK—
Alan Reid on Rider Haggard.


munists on the waterfront that the right-
wing Clerks’ leadership was pushed into
the dispute by them. While the Clerks’
Union for obvious reasons has never
acknowledged initiating the ban it is
impossible to swallow this line when the
pattern of the campaign is traced
through.
THE COLD-BLOODED
BRITISH
As I see it
FROM ALAN REID IN LONDON
/\M of the
that
Mr Menzies
is up against in his present Common
Market negotiations is the difference in
approach between an Australian and a
British Government. Basically an Aus-
tralian Government’s attitude is that it
is governing people, but the British atti-
tude is that it is governing a country.
The British approach is quite cold-
blooded: whereas Menzies and his minis-
ters are genuinely concerned and it
is not political factors alone that cause
their distress that centres like Mildura
will suffer badly if no provision is made
for canned and dried fruits to get access
to ECM comparable to the access they
have had for years to the British Market,
the British make no bones about the fact
that they expect the British horticultural
industry to be wiped out by its Euro-
pean competitors once Britain enters
ECM.
“Tomatoes and other vegetables will
be produced at prices against which we
cannot compete,” say British officials.
What will happen to the British horticul-
tural industry? They shrug their should-
ers. “It will disappear. It is part of the
price we shall have to pay. But it is for
the country’s good.”
Even in the House of Commons there
is the same attitude that the country,
that mystical indefinable thing, must
come ahead of the people who inhabit
the country. When Agricultural Minister
Soames explained on Wednesday last
week that when Britain goes into ECM
the price of meat, butter, bread, milk,
dairy products and even porridge must
go up nobody on the Labor side could
discover what compensating benefits the
British working man would get.
There was no suggestion that his
prosperity and wages would move up to
keep pace with his higher living costs.
In fact the only suggestion was that his
wages far from moving up would move
R. G. Menzies
down. It was left to a Conservative MP,
Sir Peter Roberts, who switched from
his former attitude of supporting Britain’s
entry into ECM to opposition, to issue
that warning. Roberts, himself a master
cutler in Sheffield, said: “Steelworkers
in Sheffield and in Luxembourg or the
miners in Durham and in the Ruhr all
earn about £l7 a week, but the contin-
ental worker pays £-2 10s. a week more
rent and £1 a week more in food. That
gives the British worker extra money to
buy a car and a television set. If we go
into ECM and the European worker is
still content to go to work by bicycle and
not have a television set the British
worker will have to demand more wages.
It will lead to industrial unrest or fur-
ther inflation. If comparative pr : levels
on the continent and here are instituted
the average wage earner will have to pay
about <£l a week more for food.”
But Sir Peter was left isolated like
a shag on a rock.
The fact that the British Government
can get away with this kind of an ap-
proach without any perceptible reaction
on the part of the electorate is reported
to have intrigued Mr Menzies. No Aust-
ralian Government could get away with
such offhand treatment of both industries
and the consuming public. If Australia
was forced by circumstances over which
it had no control to liquidate an industry
the Australian Government of the day
would have to ensure that the liquidation
was as painless to the people in the in-
dustry as it could possibly be. Similarly
if an Australian Minister rose in the
house to expain that meat, butter, bread
and other staple commodities were about
to rise significantly in price, he would
be under a compulsion to explain what
compensatory action was proposed to
cushion the impact and what precise
steps would be taken to ensure that there
would be no reduction in the standard
of living because of these rises in the
prices of staple foodstuffs.
They do things differently in Britain.
TASMANIA
BOSSES' MARKET
IN BOYS
From a Launceston Correspondent
first post-war employers’ market
A for school-leaver labor has shaken
parents and even politicians out of com-
placency, to produce in recent weeks a
new willingness to consider how the
school product may be packaged to make
it acceptable to customer employers.
The placing in jobs of school-leavers
in Tasmania has been no easier and no
more difficult than it has been elsewhere.
Employers were waiting for the new out-
put of the schools, but they were more
discriminating, and the grasshoppers of
the long summer of school days are now
the idle lads and lasses around the streets.
(On the other hand the headmaster of
Clarence High School, who had arranged
for comprehensive vocational guidance
for those who were leaving, was able to
report that all his boys had been found
employment, and 99 per cent, of them
were both satisfied and satisfactory.)
Education Minister Neilson, admitting
the failure of the present apprenticeship
system, defended his department against
recent charges that the schools were
to blame. In December, he said, 1339
boys left State schools fully qualified
to take up apprenticeships, but only
20 did so. Conditions and opportunities
for apprentices, he claimed, were not
sufficiently attractive to compete with
other employment avenues. “Those who
fix wages and conditions for apprentice-
ships have not realised that qualified
children are taking up jobs with more
status, in-service training and higher
salaries,” he said.
Police Minister McLoughlin, an elec-
trical engineer who learned his trade as
an apprentice, and now a member of the
Apprenticeship Commission, says that
higher pay is the answer. “It’s all very
well to have a large work force,” he said,
“but it’s useless if it’s not skilled and
competent.”
The principal of Hobart Technical
College, Mr A. E. Haller Griffits, at last
month’s college speech night, said that
there was more to the problem than
merely attracting recruits to apprentice-
ships. Full-time training, he said, was
needed. “The work of four years of part-
time training could be put into two
periods of six months each of full-time
training.” The cost to the employer might
be no more than under the present
system, with its constant interruptions to
work, and country boys would be able to
get their tech, college training.


NORTHERN TERRITORY
THE BARRAMUNDI RACKET
Northern Territory’s barramundi
fishermen are angry and worried
because poaching in inland lagoons and
billabongs is reaching proportions where
it could wreck the industry.
You only have to live up here for a
while to understand the Territorian’s
feeling for barramundi. These huge,
silver fish with their thick, boneless
steaks, can be a talking point for hours
in Darwin pubs.
Catching one on a line is a thing to
boast about; and as far as eating is
concerned, the famous American
gourmet, Maurice Dreicer,. said it all
when, after a meal in the Victoria Hotel
here last year, he pronounced the barra:
“One of the great fishes of the world”.
Once the species was common all
along the northern coast, but in Queens-
land, today, over-fishing has reduced
them to a rarity. Even in the Territory
■—almost its last refuge—this tragically
vulnerable fish is at a point where
Government Fisheries Officer Alby Adam
says: “Continued illegal netting could
eventually result in the species becoming
extinct”.
Poachers have been out in un-
precedented numbers during recent
weeks. They net the inland billabongs
and lagoons where the barramundi go at
the start of each wet season to breed,
rest up and grow fat. Last week one
team alone brought out at least 3000 lbs
and marketed it door-to-door around
Darwin.
This sort of thing threatens the very
existence of the professionals —men like
Mick Haritos and Joe Jenkins who take
a pride in the quality of what they
market. The freshwater barramundi is
unpalatable: months of sedentary living
in freshwater billabongs turns his flesh
brown and gives it a muddy taste. It isn’t
until the dry season breezes blow and
surface waters dry up that the barra-
mundi goes back to sea. There, con-
stantly hunting and being hunted, he
sloughs off the fat, leaving a hard silver
body which is poetry in action —and on
the dinner table.
Government Fisheries Officer Adams
reckons one 3000 lbs consignment of
freshwater barramundi sent interstate
could wreck a promising and lucrative
export industry. Apart from ruining the
reputation of a great eating fish, illegal
netters threaten the species itself. They
can go through a billabong in half a
day, leaving behind them only “dead
water” with not a fish anywhere.
The effects are noticeable already.
When Darwin veteran George Haritos
was a boy, spearing barramundi was
great sport as the floodwaters, six to 12
inches deep, drained off the coastal
plains round about March or April. His
brother Ningle had a rib broken when a
huge barramundi actually leapt into his
boat. Those things don’t happen any
more.
Now there is general awareness that
unless netting of breeding areas and
creek mouths is halted, the species may
soon be as rare here as it is in Queens-
land.
Bearing the brunt of all this is Govern-
ment Fisheries Officer Alby Adams, and
he agree:, there is a real danger of barra
being fished out. “It is possible that con-
tinued freshwater poaching would so
deplete the numbers that the fish would
become extinct,” he said. He faces a
massive task in policing the law, which
sets a £.50 fine (plus confiscation of nets
and other gear) as the maximum fine for
netting billabongs.
Men who travel by truck, returning to
Darwin to market their haul, are hard
to trap. Unless caught in the act they
can claim they are merely going from
one saltwater estuary to another.
There have been no prosecutions in
the Territory under this ordinance for
at least eight months. Meanwhile, pro-
fessional barramundi fishermen predict
reduced catches next season.
FROM KEITH WILLEY IN DARWIN
The DOMAIN
JUNE 17, 1882
Judge Dowling says that tramways
** are the ruin of young Australia,
as the youths and girls slouch into the
cars, lazily lolling the trip, instead of
walking their mile or mile-and-a-half,
and taking necessary exercise.
* ★ ★
A walk through the Domain last
Sunday afternoon was a profit-
able one to us, bent on observation.
Here it is that profanity and obscenity
are fostered and encouraged.
A female could not pass without
encountering a volley of filthy in-
vective and indecent observations. In
the Outer Domain we came across a
temperance lecturer, who forced
refinement upon the young by
describing the degradations of drunk-
ards, and denouncing all barmaids as
harlots! Further on was another man
holding himself up, in execrable
English, provocative of great laughter,
as “an awful example”, and inveighing
against every man who dared to drink
a glass of beer. A few yards from this
man was a group of folk making a
burlesque of religion and singing
sacred words to nigger melodies. But
the school was that surrounding poor
COCKS. All the other spouters had
protection, either of friends or
officials, but the Good Samaritan,
whose collections in aid of our
charities have done so much good,
was in the midst of a scoffing brutal
crowd, who pushed each other about
in order to get a kick at him! Every
interjection made during the reading
of Holy Writ or the earnest preaching
of COCKS was received with the
relish and enthusiasm by these young
gentlemen. We have undoubted faith
in the genuineness of COCKS’ pro-
fession and practice, but, taking all
things into consideration, it is advis-
able that these scenes should be
abolished. It is safely within the
bounds of probability to say that none
of these Park preachers are doing
good; on the contrary, one thing is
certain —a grand school for all that
can debase the young and shame the
adult is found unmolested and flourish-
ing round the man, who, of all others
there, is most earnest and true.
We call upon the authorities to
interfere with what is becoming as
great a festering sore on our social
life as harbor picnics. A sound
whipping of the leaders of profanity
and a scattering of the all too willing
pupils is absolutely and at once
necessary.
ON THE WATERFRONT
BARBED WIRE
From a Melbourne Correspondent
The wharfies’ ban on a shipment of
A barbed wire for South Vietnam last
week was a one-day wonder which made
a news item for Peking radio, but
achieved little else. Only in the wider
context of Communist activities did it
have any significance.
Men loading the Dutch freighter Hout-
man applied the ban around Tuesday
lunch-time after being addressed by Mr
Ted Bull, one of the vigilance officers
for the Waterside Workers’ Federation.
Mr Bull, a Communist, told the men that
the wire would be used to build concen-


tration camps to hold Vietnamese work-
ers and invoked the memory of pre-war
wharfies’ ban on scrap iron for Japan.
The wire, in fact was part of Austra-
lia’s new £3m. programme of aid to South
Vietnam and other Asian members of
SEATO. As well as barbed wire, Can-
berra is supplying steel posts to build
barricades around villages threatened by
Communist attack. It is also sending
sirens to warn of the attacks.
If Mr Bull hoped to spark off a conflict
over the issue, then he fared badly. The
employers refused to rise to the bait and
allowed the men to continue working on
other cargo. Meanwhile, the secretary
of the Melbourne branch of the WWF
Mr Charlie Young, another Communist,
refused to comment on the incident.
From Sydney, Mr. C. Fitzgibbon, fed-
eral secretary of the union, issued a
direction that the wire be loaded. He
pointed out that “We are opposed to
interference in the affairs of other nations
and are conscious that it is not advan-
tageous for Australia to be placed in
the position of supporting corrupt regimes
in the interests of power politics” but
went on to indicate that the WWF ac-
cepted the assurance given by the Exter-
nal Affairs Department that the wire was
to be used for the protection of villages.
Next day the men resumed loading after
passing a resolution saying that they did
so under strong protest “conscious of the
fact that the loading of such cargo en-
dangers, seriously, peace in South Asia
and the Pacific”.
Only 15 men were involved in the
episode, but Thursday’s Communist
“Guardian” inflated this to “more than
100” in a front-page stpry. It also
omitted to tell its readers I that Mr Bull
and his 15 “peace” fighters had backed
down the previous day.
The ban was a hit-and-run affair which
provided material for the Communist
Party’s current campaign in support of
the coming World Congress of the
Peoples for Disarmament due to be held
in Moscow in July. Mr Young, as a
senior official of the WWF could be held
accountable had he openly backed the
ban, so it was tactically wise that the
headline-making stunt was pulled off by
Mr Bull. It will bolster morale in the
ranks of the Victorian Peace Council
at its meeting this week to consider
“further action to end war in South
East Asia” and the ending of nuclear
tests. It will also give the delegates to
Moscow something to skite about and
it is a story which will no doubt improve
in the telling.
The more enduring moral was the one
pointed out by the “Age” correspondent
who wrote: “It is not difficult to imagine
what the fate of our defence forces would
be should an armed conflict arise in-
volving us in South-East Asia, as it very
well might.”
Around Sydney
THAT MASONIC CLUB BANQUET
Tn two of the best known Sydney
clubs on Wednesday night last week
the tables were laid for full-scale
banquets. In both the city Masonic
Club and the giant suburban St George
Leagues Club the chefs busied them-
selves with oysters and turkey and
drink waiters unsealed the Scotch and
cigars.
At the Masonic Club dinner organ-
ised by the Parliamentary Labor Party
the guests of honor were to be three
of the State’s top politicians, Premier
Bob Heffron, Attorney-General Reg
Downing and Chief Secretary Gus
Kelly, all celebrating 21 years in State
Cabinet. Even more distinguished
guests (in the eyes of the hosts) were
expected at St George—the mighty
English Rugby League side.
The papers had already carried
photographs of the three veteran Min-
isters toasting their Cabinet coming-
of-age at a private celebration with
their wives a couple of weeks ago.
Later they’d all gone off to see “Break-
fast at Tiffany’s”. But the Masonic
Club dinner was to be something dif-
ferent —a show of strength and
loyalty by the Parliamentary Labor
Party.
Caucus chairman Frank Downing
and secretary Brian Bannon sent round
a circular calling on all the Labor
Parliamentarians to kick in fifty bob
to make the dinner a night to re-
member. Yet the response was not all
that was hoped for. A conclave of
left-wingers decided to boycott the
banquet! “We’re not going to pay
good money to honor a man who has
never faced a general election, never
even stood for Cabinet selection by
Caucus”, explained one of the rebels.
The man to whom he was referring,
of course, was Robert Reginald
Downing, the State’s Attorney-Gen-
eral. Mr Downing, like Mr Jim
Maloney, the Minister for Labor and
Industry, is a member of the NSW
Upper House, the Legislative Council,
whose members are elected by the
combined vote of the two Houses of
Parliament. The first Caucus meeting
after Labor’s sweeping victory in the
March State elections had been the
occasion of a bitter attack on Maloney
by the left-wing. Last week’s dinner
provided an excuse for a show of
strength against Downing.
Just how much this split in his Party
affected Bob Heffron was brought into
the open on the morning before the
banquet. When a couple of the left-
wingers complained of waste of public
money and criticised some public ser-
vants, Heffron “shook with anger”,
according to reliable leaks. “That’s the
kind of tripe you’d expect to see in the
newspapers,” the Premier exploded.
Yet that night, when less than half
of the 78 Labor Members of Parlia-
ment turned up at the banquet, the
ageing Mr Heffron must have
wondered what would come next.
★ ★ ★
Qimilarly strong language to that
used by Mr Heffron brought the
Rugby League dinner from its usual
place in the sports section of the
papers to the front page and posters.
The St George Leagues Club is the
social home of Sydney’s top League
team, St George, and is financed by
the unending whirr of poker machines.
But in the last couple of weeks, the
English tour has inspired a lot of
bitterness in football circles and a
couple of matches have featured some
brawling. With the First Test scheduled
for last Saturday, the English team’s
manager, Mr Stuart Hadfield, decided
he did not want his stars out cavorting
until the small hours. So he rang the
manager of the St George Leagues
Club, Mr Arthur Justice, (who is also
an Australian selector), to say that
the English Test side would not be
able to attend the £5OO dinner.
St George would have to be content
with the 13 reserves and a couple of
officials.
Mr Justice was rather put-out.
“What a lot of bastards” he declared.
Mr Hadfield was horrified at such
language. “It may be an acceptable
term to Australians, but it’s an insult
to an Englishman,” he explained.
Needless to say, none of the
Englishmen attended the dinner. Lying
untouched on the tables were the
kangaroo-skin wallets each containing
£lO (subsequently denied) the cigar-
ette lighters, and the St George ties
which were to have been presented
to each of the visitors.
★ ★ ★
Qnippets of incidental intelligence:
eighteen members of the Moscow
State Variety Theatre Company were
forced to join Actors’ Equity for the
duration of their tour of Australia;
people contributed £l2OO to a relief
fund for Chinese refugees and
£13,000 for a dogs’ home; Protestant
churches throughout Sydney last
Sunday prayed that off-course betting
would not be legalised.
BLIGH


LEAGUE OF RIGHTS
THE KISS OF DEATH
E. BUTLER
Sponsor. ..
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
nPuE campaign against the Common
Market has produced some strange
bed-fellows. One London cartoonist has
even had Mr Menzies and Mr Khrush-
chev walking arm in arm, and now he
could add some representative of a group
commonly regarded as fascist. Lor Mr
D. J. Killen, MHR, announced last
week that he was going on a private
lecture tour in Great Britain to attack
the proposed British entry into the Com-
mon Market and that he was being spon-
sored by the League of Rights.
The National Secretary of the League
of Rights is Mr Eric Butler of Mel-
bourne. In the polemics in which Mr
Butler is constantly involved he is usually
labelled an anti-Semite. The main
evidence is that his Heritage Bookshop
is the leading centre in Australia for the
distribution of some of the most vicious
anti-Semitic propaganda available in the
world today.
But anti-Butler critics soon find that
their target is an elusive one, particu-
larly if they attribute these views direct-
ly to him. His immediate rejoinder is
that he didn’t say these things, that the
critics should name one occasion when
he did, and that all he has done is make
available certain philosophic works with
which he may or may not agree. Indeed,
he will go on, his attitude to the Jews
has nothing to do with anti-Semitism,
even if only because most of the Jews
are not Semites, the great body of them
being descendants of Asian converts to
Judaism in the Bth Century. (This in-
cidentally also serves him as an argu-
ment against the Zionists’ claim to Israel
as their historic home.) No, he says, he
is not an anti-Semite, only a Christian
who opposes Judaism because he is a
Christian, and sees the solution to the
Jewish question as the conversion of the
Jews.
However over the years his magazines,
The New Times” and “Intelligence
Survey”, and his bookshop have circu-
lated the news and intelligence that Hit-
ler worked for the Jews who wanted
the countries of the world opened to
their infiltration, that the Communists
work for the Jews who want world con-
quest, that Churchill worked for the
Jews in his destruction of the British
Empire for the achievement of which
he was made an honorary member of
the Council of the Elders of Zion. Other
“philosophic” intelligence for which we
are indebted to Mr Butler’s services are
references to the vile sexual habits of
j ews
Mr Butler is a man of many parts. Born
in Benalla in 1916, he is farmer, lecturer,
Propagandist, Christian activist (Presi-
dent of the pan-Christian Eltham Christ-
mas Festival), local politician f esident
of Eltham Shire), journalist (apart from
working in his own magazines ’ once
wrote a series in the Melbourne “Argus”
the last of which, “The Financier-
Socialist Conspiracy”, “exposing” such
wealthy socialists as the “German-Jewish
financier” Sir Ernest Cassel, was banned
when the British bought the “Argus” in
1949.)
Anti-Communism is not nearly enough
to win Mr Butler’s approval. Lor ex-
ample, if you read the Communist or
fellow - travelling Press you would
imagine that Dr L. Knopfelmacher is a
rabid McCarthyite, a security spy, and
what-all. But he doesn’t fool Mr Butler.
Dr Knopfelmacher is a Jew whose
“collectivist” mentality has no real
answer to Communism. Dr Knopfel-
macher’s real offence was to have point-
ed out that Mr Butler does more to help
the Communist cause than 1000 Com-
munists could ever do, by giving them
an opportunity to pretend that all anti-
communists are “fascists”.
Mr Butler's movement is otherwise
completely ineffectual. This augurs ill
however for the success of Mr Killen’s
mission. Such sponsorship will be the
kiss of death.
WEST AUSTRALIA
CHILL WINDS OF CHANGE
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
first chill wind of militant
unionism crept over Western Aus-
tralia this week as the three-yearly State
ALP and trade union congress met in
Perth to discuss the formation of a
separate trades and labor council directly
affiliated with the ACTU to run in-
dustrial affairs in the West.
If the ACTU recommendation is
carried, it will be the first rift in a 50-
year marriage between the political and
industrial wings of Labor in WA.
Since the WA branch of the Austral-
ian Labor Lederation was formed in
Kalgoorlie in 1907, trade unions have
been directly connected with the ALP
and the party pledge is now compulsory
for delegates to the Trades Union In-
dustrial Council, which runs the State’s
industrial unions.
Many delegates to last year’s ACTU
congress in Sydney wanted to move into
WA and form a separate trades and
labor council, despite local feeling
against it. But the congress took the
more cautious step of appointing a
special committee to consider ways and
means of implementing the ACTU
policy.
The committee, which included State
and Federal ALP secretary Joe Cham-
berlain, unanimously recommended the
adoption of a separate trades and labor
council.
Smaller unions in WA fear the com-
ing of the council for two reasons. It
will probably admit the more militant
members of the bigger unions like
Amalgamated Engineering, Waterside
Workers and Carpenters and Operative
Painters, and it will also probably mean
a rise in union fees to pay for the
ACTU affiliation fee.
If the recommendation for the sep-
arate trades and labor council is carried,
it will mean a new constitution for the
ALP in WA involving a radical change
in the selection of parliamentary candi-
dates.
A rules committee headed by Parlia-
mentary Labor leader Bert Hawke has
recommended the endorsement of first
past the post system in ballots conducted
by the State ALP executive. This will
put an end to the rank-and-file selection
system which has been in force since
1907. It has often been criticised on
the grounds that it has resulted in poor
ballots and poor candidates.
The new constitution also provides for
the abolition of the present district coun-
cils and the establishment of an execu-
tive comprising 50 trade union delegates
and 20 from political branches and elec-
toral councils, a move which will further
strengthen the position of the trade
union movement in State ALP affairs.
With WA facing increased industriali-
sation, this week’s meeting will be
among the most significant ever held by
the Labor movement in WA.


Around Melbourne
THE STAMPEDE AND THE FALL-OUT SHELTER
|Tere in Melbourne we have a
marvellous new toy. As a keep-
your - children - quiet - Sunday -
afternoon-outing it is easily out-rival-
ling the aeroplanes at Essendon and
the Sidney Myer Music Bowl. It is
the new £2 million south-eastern
freeway, a splendid band of concrete
that runs along the north bank of the
Yarra, sometimes out over the river
on piles, sometimes way up in the
air at roof-top height, as a punt road.
To be perfectly frank it is the only
decent thing that has happened to the
north Yarra bank since I stepped
ashore on May 29, 1835.
The south bank, with its glorious
Alexandra Avenue, Domain, Botanic
Gardens and its nice people at 5.E.2,
has had all the breaks. The north
bank has been nothing more than a
smell of factories with the only good
smell being that of the Richmond
brewery and, alas, even that has
closed.
Yet this glorious freeway, which
makes one’s toes tremble to dive down
on the accelerator, lasts for only If
miles. No sooner have you opened
up and bang, it’s all over. It’s like
settling down for a strip tease show
and the girl decides only to take off
her ear-rings. The object is to take
the freeway for miles along the north
bank to connect eventually with Mel-
bourne’s Ring Road. But the chair-
man of the Board of Works, Mr
Trickev, has said that the money is not
available now to finish it, and he does
not know when it will be.
So in the meantime we have some-
thing that’s unique, the only freeway
that starts in the heart of a city of
two million and finishes If miles later
by a dear, old set of hand-operated
railway gates. Actually the freeway
ends at a roundabout which goes off
one way to the gates and another way
out across Grange Road bridge. The
freeway can cater for 3500 vehicles
an hour in either direction. The
roundabout, even if the motorists
marvellously know what they’re doing,
has a capacity of only 2100 vehicles
an hour.
The motorists are just beginning to
become acquainted with the freeway
and already the traffic jam at Grange
Road bridge is developing into a little
bonzer. Yet there’s more to it than
that. This new diversion of traffic is
bringing an extra stream across the
bridge and up St George’s Road,
Toorak. Now St George’s Road is
darned near the ultimate in 5.E.2, in
fact darned near the ultimate in the
entire country.
Daily the traffic, known as the
stampede, increases along its bending,
stately tree-lined bitumen, which was
never meant to cater for anything less
than Rolls Royces and Packards.
What with this and the ever-
encroaching flats there’s no question
Toorak is beginning to fade. The new
eldorado? Possibly Kew.
The other big hope for solving
Melbourne’s traffic is the city under-
ground. We have been quietly plan-
ning and chewing this over these past
50 years. Until this week nobody has
ever had the guts to get out and
collect the money to pay for it. As of
now the estimate for the underground
railway and the rolling stock will be
more than £30,000,000.
Qir Arthur Warner, the Minister
for Transport, announced last week
that there would be a special land tax
on everybody who lived within a
quarter of a mile of the proposed
line. You can imagine how sweetly
this news hit the ears of the rate-
payers At first it was thought that
the idea was illegal, but it wasn’t,
and Sir Arthur expects to collect
£300,000 a year.
Regrettably there will be no start
on the underground until 1967 and
the next train is not expected to run
until 1974. One member of the State
House, Mr Holden, expressed the
opinion that before we have an under-
ground all Melburnians would have
their personal helicopters. That may
be, yet it is a great pity that the first
sod could not be turned some time in
January, 1963. For if that were done
it could tie in with the centenary
celebrations in London: it will be 100
years next January since the opening
of the first section of the London tube.
However, there may be a much
easier method for getting under-
ground. Maybe it is a type of mass
death wish but the fall-out shelter at
the Exhibition Building has been a
marvellous success. The fall - out
shelter has been the star attraction of
the Building Industry Fair.
Nervous and startled by this
development your pioneer called on
the Fair director, Roy T. Knight. He
said the shelter was worth £ 1200
and they were available for any
Melburnian who wished to build one.
Both Federal and State Civil Defence
authorities were interested and already
he had received six definite inquiries.
“Where would one build such a
shelter,” I asked.
Mr Knight explained that the area
of total and near total destruction
would be within a seven-mile radius
of the city. This accounted for all the
beloved suburbs like Toorak, South
Yarra, Camberwell, Malvern and St
Kilda. But obviously it was just right
for the nicer bayside resorts like Mt
Martha, Mt Eliza and Portsea.
The fall-out shelter on display is
14 feet by 14 feet. It has three-foot
cavity walls filled with rubble and a
three-foot concrete slab on the roof.
It is completely sealed with a filtration
system for air. A little ugly and solid
perhaps, but no doubt Roy Grounds
or some suitable architect could fit it
tastefully on to the back of the garage.
Well, the building was very nicely
furnished inside: beds, toilet, tran-
sistor radio. There was a scrabble set,
jig-saw puzzles and a shelf of books
which included Nevil Shute’s
“Requiem for a Wren”, Alec Waugh’s
“Fuel for a Flame”, Marcia Daven-
port’s “The Constant Image”, The
Daily Mail Boys’ Annual and the new
English Bible.
According to the instructions there
was room for a family of four, but
they would have to stay put inside for
14 days until all radioactivity was
gone. Your pioneer felt that if he had
to stay put in such a space with any
family of four with whom he was
acquainted he would prefer to go out
and face the bomb.
BATMAN


PAID TO HAVE A DIRTY MIND?
Changing manners and morals -sex is in, violence is out
in today's film censorship
1948—THIS WAS OUT
1962—THIS IS IN
By DESMOND O'GRADY
the seventh floor of Watson House
” in Bligh Street, Sydney, there is a
theatre in which feature films are
screened each morning and afternoon.
Usually there are only two or three
people there, seated at desks as if they
are undergoing an examination. In fact,
they are examiners; if they want to make
critical comments they switch on a
discreet green light which illuminates
their notebooks. With well-padded leather
chairs, ample space and absolute quiet,
the theatre is most comfortable; it is just
as well, for the viewers cannot walk out
no matter how boring the film is. This
is the Commonwealth Film Censor’s of-
fice where over 400 feature films are
shown yearly, as well as nearly 800 other
“theatrical” films, not to speak of over
9000 television films viewed in a nearby
building.
If one listened to his worst critics, the
censor would appear to be a capricious,
insensitive bureaucrat who is never
happier than when he can get to work
on some valuable celluloid with sharp
scissors. You could picture him as a
blinkered, hamfisted prude who is paid
to have a dirty mind.
The present censor, Mr Colin Camp-
bell, does not live up to these expecta-
tions. He is a quiet, greying 63-year-old
public servant who came to the job
after being private secretary to a number
of Ministers, a man who believes that
censorship must move with the times.
His performance bears out his belief.
Censorship inevitably reflects changing
manners and morals and this is being
shown most clearly now that films which
were censored many years ago are being
reviewed for television screening.
The restoration of previous cuts shows
how much censorship has changed. In a
film first screened in j 932 there were
eight cuts of such things as kissing on
the shoulder, and action which revealed
that a man passed a night with a woman.
These were all restored for the television
showing but a new cut was made deleting
shots of a man slumped at a stake after
being shot. The film was given an A
certificate.
These days sex is in and violence is
out. Thus: in a 1933 film two deletions
were restored: “She’d make a wonderful
mother” and “I ain’t no Peeping Tom”,
and the film was given an AO (Adults
Only) certificate. In a 1934 film the
earlier censor’s instruction to eliminate a
sketch of a girl's legs in a detective’s
notebook were cancelled, and it was
given an A certificate. In another 1934
film, all close-up shots of nude pictures,
and the words “lady, what big brown
eyes you’ve got” were restored, but the
cuts of electric chair scenes were re-
tained. The spirit of Mrs Grundy must
have been at home at the censor’s in 1935
when shots of over-exposed dancing girls
were deleted as well as the italicised
words in “part terrier, and part impulse”.
The phrases “in the fam . . .” and “facts
of life”, as well as a sentence “you
haven t got any guts” deleted from a film
in 1937 were restored on reviewing, and
an additional cut made eliminating the
shots of a penknife produced as a threat
to a girl, before the film was granted a
general certificate.
In one 1937 film there was an instruc-
tion to eliminate “closes and semi-closes
of a navel display” while in 1938 the
chestnut “take down —your particulars”
was considered unfunny and suppressed
but it was accepted as unobjectionable,
if still unfunny, in 1961.
In 1938 a comment “that is not a kiss
—that is a honeymoon” was not allowed,
but it has now been passed.
The conversation “Are you going to
give me one now?”
“One what?”
“You know—same as last night” was
cut in 1940 but restored for television,
and an additional cut eliminating a stab
blow was made before an A certificate
was granted.
In 1941 the censor must have had a
keen ear for phrasing for he excised the
italicised words in “I left the vicar in
bed with the district nurse bandaging
his ankle”. Even in 1950 a shot of a girl
pulling up her shorts to show her leg was
not permitted but it was found unobjec-
tionable 10 years later.
In 1952 censors were still putting the
worst possible interpretation on matters.
In one film a censor ordered the deletion
of “you split my bottom” and shots of
male passengers going away and later
returning after a bus stopped at a road-
side.
From this distance the older censorship
looks laughably straightlaced; as against
thirty years ago, sex is in and violence
is out, which is also the pattern of
English censorship.


violence is out’ which is also the pattern
of English censorship.
The previous chief censor, Mr J. O.
Alexander, said sufficient to damn him-
self with those who suspect censors are
incompetent fuddy-duddies. He said that
he suppressed shots of bikinis because
they are banned by municipal ordinances
as it was not the function of a censor to
force such an issue. He said that cuts
were made of kisses on the neck if the
sequence went on too long because “you
don’t want to make a welter of it,
audiences get tired of it”. In a broadcast
he showed that not only was he willing
to correct the film-makers’ mistakes but
also royal ones: “Another angle to cen-
sorship is the high degree of concentra-
tion demanded of a censor —he cannot
afford to miss a word or abgesture if a
reasonably good job is to be achieved.
Perhaps one of the best examples of this
was in a wartime film in which the
Queen, now the Queen Mother, was in-
specting garments sent to England by
the Canadian Red Cross for issue to
blitzed working men’s children. The
Queen, examining and admiring a baby’s
silk shawl, remarked ‘lt is really too
beautiful,’ using the word ‘too’ merely as
a superlative. We eliminated the word to
avoid the impression on some minds with
an exaggerated social outlook that the
Queen’s remark suggested the shawl was
too good for a working man’s child”.
It is easy to point out the mistakes and
limitations of earlier censors but it be-
comes more difficult and more contro-
versial the nearer one gets to the present
day. For one thing, Mr Campbell has not
exposed himself by making statements
such as some of his predecessors did and,
for another, the secrecy surrounding the
censor’s work makes it difficult to get
exact information. There is no doubt,
however, that the censor at the moment
is more liberal than before. The subjects
of film such as “Hungry for Love” and
“II Bell’Antonio” would have excluded
them a few years ago, just as “Suddenly
Last Summer” and “Hiroshima Mon
Amour”, to give two examples, would
not have passed uncut if they arrived
in Australia even five years earlier.
The constitutional position, the powers
and functions, of the censor are often
misunderstood but any comment must
be based on a grasp of these. In the
19305, there were some cases of State
censorship: For instance in New South
Wales, “The Kelly Gang” and in Victoria
“Ten Days that Shook the World” were
banned but now censorship is always
Federal, apart from the Victorian Ap-
peals Board.
The Censorship Board acts under the
Customs Department as all film and ad-
vertising material has to be censored
before import or export. The Customs
Regulations state that a film shall not be
passed if its matter is blasphemous, inde-
cent, obscene, likely to be injurious to
morality or encourage or incite to crime,
likely to be offensive to a friendly nation
or any of Her Majesty’s subjects or
undesirable in the public interest.
The classification of films is a different
matter; constitutionally it is the States’
concern but they let the Commonwealth
authority handle it. The classifications in
use here are: General Exhibition, and
Not suitable for children, and many of
the “not suitable for children” films are
passed subject to a special condition that
all advertising shall emphasise that the
films are suitable only for adults (Special
A certificate). The symbols to be used in
classified advertisements are G, for
general exhibition; A, Not suitable for
children.
An Unenviable Job
The censor has no power to enforce
the observance of these classifications;
that is a State matter and the situation is
chaotic. In 1946 Queensland, Western
Australia and Tasmania agreed to a
uniform censorship administered through
the Censorship Board, Victoria retained
its own existing legislation recognising
the Board, while South Australia stood
by its own regulations governing the
matter. In New South Wales “a gentle-
men’s agreement” reputedly exists be-
tween the trade and the Chief Secretary.
The situation makes the censor’s un-
enviable job even more difficult. There is
no regulation to deny children under 16
admission to films classified for children
or for adults only. In Britain those under
16 are prohibited from seeing X certifi-
cate films so the censor does not have
to bear in mind that children may see a
film intended only for adults.
In Australia you have responsible
theatre managers advertising, as was
done during the showing of “The Savage
Eye”, “Children under 18 not admitted”
but there is no regulation to back them.
It seems a waste of money for the Board
to engage in classification when State
governments do nothing to ensure that its
recommendations are observed.
The censoring of TV films is also
handled by the Censorship Board who
work under the same regulations as for
films but with their eyes also on the
“Television Programme Standards” pre-
pared by the Australian Broadcasting
Control Board. The instructions are de-
tailed and the standards stricter for the
more intimate medium. The classifica-
tions are G, unrestricted for television;
A, not suitable for children; and AO, not
to be televised before 8.30 p.m. (unsuit-
able for children and adolescents).
It is essential to know not only what
the censor’s powers are but also who is
the censor. The answer is more complex
than it might appear. The present chief
censor, Colin Campbell, has been in the
public service since he joined it at the age
of 18 in 1917. Previous to his appoint-
ment as censor in 1957 he was mostly
connected with Customs. Three men
work with him as censors, Messrs Pin-
fold, Worboys and Layton, and there
are three women censors, Mrs Stuckey,
Miss Piddington and Miss McMillan.
Two censors work on “theatrical” and
commercial films while four cover tele-
vision; the chief censor is called in only
when the other censors have a query.
But the censors are not those who
solely examine films. A broad description
of the censors might list prevailing
attitudes, prejudices, and pressure groups
from parents to police, from philosophy
professors to psychopaths but falling
always into two opposed groups: those
who believe censorship is bad either in
any form or because it inhibits expression
and ruins works of art, and those who
believe there should be a more rigid
censorship because vulnerable persons,
either children or adults, must be pro-
tected from harmful influences.
A Piece of Property
But this is a too general way of saying
who is the censor, just as a listing of the
censors is too narrow a description.
Censorship breeds censorship, much of
it is self-imposed and it is particularly
stringent in the film industry because of
the amount of money involved in film
making. Many subjects are rarely treated
in films because producers consider they
will not “go”: birth control is one such
subject, abortion is another. Importers,
for example, will not go to the expense,
which runs into a few hundred pounds,
of bringing a film to a country if they
consider it has no chance of passing the
censor.
Further censorship can be imposed by
the film’s owner. Not only are most films
made with a shrewd eye on the code pre-
vailing in the country of production but
some are cut before they reach Australia.
Once here the importer has the right to
see his film and sometimes he draws the
censor’s attention to aspects which prove
questionable. The censor allows the dis-
tributor to discuss any proposed cuts and
there is a deal of give and take at such
meetings. This may appear rather strange
to those who picture the importer battling
with the censor to protect his film but


this is not always the case. Rarely does
the importer regard his films as works of
art, and any alteration as a sacrilege.
Normally, an importer regards films in
the same way as a businessman regards
real estate —as something on which he
wants to earn as much money as possible.
He is anxious to get a general exhibition
certificate so that the film can be shown
at children’s matinees, and he will cut
it accordingly. He also cuts at times if
he considers a film boring, or if it will
run beyond a certain hour and he has
to pay his staff overtime. He is not sup-
posed to change a film’s title or form
without resubmission to the censor but
some are unaware of this regulation,
and others ignore it.
As a consequence of this it is not
always clear just who cuts films. The
censors do not feel free to make public
what they have cut out of other people’s
property because it might affect the sale
of that property. Inevitably much criti-
cism of the censors is merely ill-informed.
The most consistent charge against the
censor is inconsistency but an answer to
that is that not only are there different
censors but that each film is different.
The censor is particularly wary about
flick knives because they are a prohibited
import therefore shots of the knife
opening are usually excised. This is an
annoying quirk but at least the censor
retained a flick knife-opening shot in
“West Side Story” on the ground that
it was a film of high calibre and to cut
it would ruin the scene. He was, of
course, criticised for inconsistency.
No Mindless Automaton
Surely a completely consistent censor,
one who cut solely on subject without
regard to tone or context would be just
the sort of mindless automaton most to
be feared. As far as violence goes the
censor tries to eliminate kicking and the
use of broken bottles as weapons—if
anyone wants lessons in their use he has
to get them at pubs or football matches.
He is opposed to sadism and looks
askance at face slapping but again he
must take account of the circumstances;
if a nagging woman receives a slap in the
face he would probably consider it well
deserved whereas it would be hard to
imagine him passing a shot of a woman
being punched. Wherever is it possible
to cut without ruining a sequence he
eliminates shots of the moment of
impact with head blows, and his justifica-
tion is that although it is an imperfect
measure it does reduce the violence
which may impress disturbed and imma-
ture minds.
Rape scenes are more popular with
movie makers these days and the censor
passes them, as in “Virgin Spring” and
“Rocco and his Brothers”, with the least
cuts he considers possible. For his pains
he is criticised for allowing them a’t all,
and for making minimal cuts. Strip tease;
acts are becoming commoner in films as
out of them, and the censor, of course,'
is wide open to charges of inconsistency
in cutting them. He considers that a strip
tease shown at a teenagers’ party is far
more deserving of a cut than the same
act at a night club; a strip act in a film
such as “La Dolce Vita”, which has some
claim to being an expose of decadence.,
is treated more leniently than a similar
act thrown into a film merely to titillate.
But even if the film has pretensions as a
work of art rather than an item of enter-
tainment. the censor feels he has to act
as a watchdog: he allowed scenes of
perverts’ parties in “The Savage Eye”
which should convince anyone of his
liberality, but cut the climax to the strip
tease act in which the stripper works
herself up onstage despite a character's
comment “you’ll never get pregnant that
way”. Not only do decisions vary because
each film is different and different censors
may view them, but also censors change
their minds within a comparatively short
space of time. The word “bastard” was
eliminated from “Room at the Top” but
allowed in “Victim” which is inconsis-
tency for you; “Victim” was viewed
about three years after “Room at the
Top” and that “bastard” in “Room at the
Top” probably would not even raise an
eyebrow now.
No doubt the censor makes mistakes
and they would be easier to nail if infor-
mation were only more readily available.
Such stories as that concerning “The
Miracle” which is supposed to have been
submitted to the censor by one importer
years ago and rejected, then re-submitted
by another importer and passed provided
cuts were made, the title changed and no
mention of “The Miracle” be made in the
advertising, reveal the worst possibilities.
Disputes will rage endlessly about some
of his decisions: no new horror films can
be imported yet the censor had no
qualms about passing “Psycho”, appa-
rently on the grounds that biological
abnormality is out, but psychological ab-
normality is in.
The most regrettable recent censor-
ship has been over the television play
“Reunion Day” by Peter Yeldhan. It is
another play about the one day of the
year, Anzac Day, written by an author
who did a lot of work for local radio
before going to London some years ago.
It was produced on BBC television but,
apparently', the English are made of
sterner stuff than us for we cannot see
it here.
The censor decided that part of the
language and expressions used in a hotel
bar in the film were not suitable for
putting into suburban homes on tele-
vision. The station refused to make the
cuts as they interfered with continuity,
so the film was rejected. The censor
pointed out that no objection was made
to the theme as it was not the Board's
job to stifle discussion on the merits or
demerits of the observance of Anzac Day.
There could be no sharper lesson on
the differing degrees of tolerance in
English and Australian television censor-
ship.
A case can be made against any form
of censorship as fear-inspired, undemo-
cratic and illiberal but if you agree that
a line must be drawn somewhere to con-
trol this medium which has such a
powerful impact on all age and social
groups, it becomes a question of improv-
ing the regulations and getting the best
people to administer them.
One obvious improvement would be to
make the Appeals Censor more indepen-
dent. At the moment importers can ap-
peal against the censor’s decision to the
Appeals Censor, who is Mr T. Maher,
formerly a Collector of Customs. The im-
porter can be represented by counsel in
this appeal and the only further step he
can take, should he be rejected, is to
approach the Minister. The record for
the 18 months to June 30. 1961, was six
appeals against theatrical films disallowed,
three upheld.
The “Breathless” Case
Three appeals against cuts in theatrical
films were dismissed and one upheld,
while one appeal against a television
rejection was upheld and one disallowed.
The most famous case to go before the
Appeals Censor in recent years was that
of “Breathless” which was praised as a
masterpiece overseas but rejected here
because of its English captions which the
censor ruled indecent when taken in con-
junction with the images. Mr Kapferer,
the importer, maintained that “Breath-
less” was a work of art and refused to
change the captions. The whole affair
was regrettable but on the face of it
Mr Kapferer’s refusal to compromise
looks wrongheaded: presumably the
captions were written by some translator
and were not integral to the work of art.
It should not be impossible to find
responsible people who could review
the Censorship Board’s decisions; allied
to this question there is that of the quali-
fications of the censors. Two of the
women censors have university degrees,
only one has a long association with
the trade, but none has distinguished


himself by his interest in either the history
or aesthetics of films. In the censorship
process importers, distributors and the
public service are represented, but not
necessarily those who are interested in
films as an art; it might be advisable to
have them available in an advisory capa-
city at least, and there is no reason why
censors should not be chosen from those
who have shown an expert knowledge of
films.
Another needed innovation is the
publication of lists of rejected films. This
would at least reduce the secrecy sur-
rounding the censor’s work and would be
a help to both the censor and the
critics. The censor has been attacked for
banning films critical of Australia. Films
made here can be refused an export
licence on the grounds that they show
something “detrimental or prejudicial to
the Commonwealth of Australia”. No
film has been refused an export licence,
at least since Mr Campbell became Chief
Censor in 1957, but when it happens it
should be made officially public. Censor-
ship becomes most contentious when it
is exercised within a country and it cer-
tainly shall not help the art and industry
most in need of help in Australia for, by
its nature, it inhibits, but while its record
is still good it should be required to
publish the name of any film it sup-
presses. This would help the censor also
for he is constantly being attacked for
banning films he has not banned, or
for banning films for one reason
when he has banned them for another.
He has recently been attacked for
banning a Daniel Farson film because
it was critical of Australia’s social or
political life when, in fact, he banned a
libellous Farson film in which a woman
named her neighbours and commented
that one was filthy, another took her dog
to bed, and a third never knew where to
find her husband. He has been likewise
attacked for not allowing the Probation
Officer series to be shown on television
when, in fact, not one of the series was
rejected by him. Further he has been
accused of banning “The Trials of
Oscar Wilde”, starring Peter Finch, the
film which disgusted the Russians who
had been told that Wilde was convicted
because his writings were against the
interest of the State. He passed the film
without cuts but it was beaten on to the
local market by the film about Wilde.
The Classification System
The greatest step of all to improve
censorship would be to change the system
of classification to keep in line with the
changes in film making, and in the film-
going public. No longer is every film
made for the whole family. There is no
longer one public. Increasingly films are
made by independent producers and they
compete in making specialised films for
different publics. Film writers and produ-
cers are tackling subjects which can only
be handled adequately if they know they
are going to be channelled to an audience
which can take an adult treatment. The
censor realises that films have had to
become more adventurous and mature in
order to gain the audience which is not
satisfied with television but he has to be
niggly and carping because, as he is still
working with a classification system
which does not recognise this, he has
to censor every film with the thought
that there is nothing to prevent children
seeing it. Few would worry about his
banning lurid films about lesbians, or ex-
cising expressions such as “lick my ”
or “get ”, but he disfigures films of
integrity by footling cuts and he has no
choice in the matter with the present
obsolete classification system.
Those who advocate the introduction
of the X certificate are strongly opposed
by the big groups in the trade who say
they are well-intentioned no-hopers
talking through the top of their hats
because the X certificate merely bestows
notoriety on a film and allows for
the importation of dubious products
such as nature films which give the
industry a bad name. The big traders are
interested in obtaining general exhibition
certificates to gain the widest possible
market; they are shy of the restriction
the X certificate implies but it would
be welcomed by many other groups. The
smaller art houses are strongly in favor
of the X certificate because they aim to
build up a new mature audience; the
tide seems to be going their way —in
Sydney, for instance, there are now three
cinemas showing continental films full
time, there is another showing con-
tinental films part time, five suburban
theatres which have a “continental” night
once a week and it is anticipated that
another 20 will join them within a year.
Anyone interested in intelligent cinema
would welcome the X certificate, and
particularly those whose interest is such
that they join film clubs for it would
enable them to see film classics which are
at present excluded. Those who wish to
avoid films damaging vulnerable minds
should also support a more detailed
system of classification and its enforce-
ment. They can hardly be satisfied with
a system which allows children to see
“Anatomy of a Murder”, “Moulin
Rouge”, “Psycho” and “Mein Kampf”
at a Saturday matinee.


NORTH-WEST PASSAGE 10 RICE AND RICHES
How to Go Kimberley
By PETER COLEMAN
Who has recently returned from a tour of the Kimberleys
With one fascinating exception it is
not an inspiring experience to fly
across the north of Australia from the
Queensland coast to, say, Broome. There
is, as everyone knows, “vast potential”
down there but over the years “potential”
has become almost a dirty word. So
much talk, so little action. Or occasional
spurts of audacious action followed by
redounding and expensive failures —from
the Batchelor Pumpkin scheme which
early this century cost the Government
£30,000 and produced one enormous
pumpkin, to the Humpty Doo rice
project which was to have been “the rice-
bowl of Asia” but which after losses of
over £lm. has produced a sort of game
reserve where today the wild horses and
buffalo roam. Humpty Doo was the
greatest failure but it has become a sort
of symbol of northern development and
its shadow lies heavy across the land.
The great exceptions, the most en-
couraging examples of what can be done
with the right mixture of boldness and
caution, of big finance and sound man-
agement, are the irrigation schemes in the
Kimberleys in the north-west of West
Australia.
The Kimberleys—loo,ooo square miles
north of the 20th parallel—are already
rich in legend. It is one of the few parts
of Australia that has been really cut off
from the rest of the country for several
generations—an isolated corner in an
isolated State. The handful of pastoralists
who settled there (even today the popula-
tion is little over 4000 including half-
castes, well over half of whom live in
the towns of Broome, Derby and Wynd-
ham) have heroic family histories behind
them, typified by the original Durack
who overlanded 2300 cattle from Queens-
land in the 1880’s. They have run vast
empires since the days before self-govern-
ment when for some obscure reason the
WA Governor granted them properties
of up to 1,000,000 acres for 99 years.
They have made great fortunes but con-
tinued to live and often still live in plain
not to say primitive conditions, simply
because they have always done so.
Today many of the properties are run
by companies some of whose share-
holders are also legendary as absentee
owners living, according to the legend,
like kings on the Riviera, Florida, etc.
Some of these properties are now run-
down, over-exploited wrecks, but others
are models of good enterprising manage-
ment and one of the more recent pastoral
legends was created by Glenroy Station’s
Airbeef scheme to fly young slaughtered
beasts to market instead of droving tough
cattle for a month to Wyndham ab-
attoirs.
The pastoralists have lordly but inti-
mate relation with the blacks, reminiscent
with parts of the American South, and
while the aborigines are an exploited race
in the Kimberleys as everywhere else, the
station hands there are obviously less
demoralised than the agricultural hands
further south, perhaps because they are
still on their ancestral land and because
they have more manly work. A few of
the families also have a proud “touch of
the tar” dating from the early days when
there were no white women. Although
subsequent generations have bred the
color away they still take a pride in this
drop of native blood in the same way
that some American families take pride
in a splash of Red Indian blood: it makes
them unique and part of the land.
And quite apart from these, the great
Kimberley families certainly believe it is
their country. The name Kimberley
(“Kim”) is not uncommon. They are sus-
picious and jealous of intruders particu-
larly Easterners whom they regard as
city slickers in search of a quick quid.
But they are also sitting on the last
great stretch of rich virgin agricultural
soil in the world, a region capable of
carrying several million acres of crops
irrigated by the Ord and Fitzroy rivers.
And the finance for this sort of develop-
ment must come from outside, partly
from Easterners. In fact it has already
come and a new legend looks like being
born in Kimberleys.
Two main groups have taken the initia-
tive in the development of this country.
The first are the Government men led by
the Minister for Industrial Development,
Railways, and the North-West, Charles
Court, the Minister for Works, G. P.
Wild, and their dedicated public servants,
such as Mr J. W. Young, Mr Parker,
Mr Don Munro and Mr Bill Gordon.
Their determination is largely based
on the idea that we must “show the
flag” up there and be able to tell the
world and the United Nations that we
are capable of developing such obvious
resources. Even if closer settlement may
only involve a comparatively small num-
ber of people in terms of the country’s
total population, it would, they believe,
give us much more moral authority when
we claim this country against the world
by right of occupation. In this belief they
are obviously right.
The second group are businessmen,


most notably in Associated Rural Indus-
tries and its subsidiaries, who share the
WA Government’s belief about showing
the flag but who, as custodians of share-
holders’ money, can only invest there
because they believe the investment will
show a profit. Already ARI has spon-
sored more than £500,000.
The biggest of the two joint schemes at
the moment is the Ord River scheme,
though ARI is a junior partner in it.
Everything about it makes a strong and
encouraging contrast with the Humpty
Doo fiasco. Humpty Doo showed that
boldness and money, though essential, are
not enough. There must also be good
management based on years of careful
research and experiment in crops,
methods of growing them, and their
diseases. (On top of this there has to be
the judgment to say when there has been
enough research, because if you leave
research scientists completely alone they
will never reach any practical conclu-
sions.)
Kadjibut St Farmers
"Desearch in the Ord River district
* began back in 1941 in the old Agri-
cultural Research Station. In 1946 it was
taken over by a joint Federal-WA Kim-
berley Research Station. In its 20 years
this small group of often unshaven, some-
times near-naked researchers in their
rural-scientific-bohemian retreat have
established that particular types of
rice, cotton, safflower and sugar can
be successfully grown in the eastern
Kimberleys. This research is being sup-
plemented by work on ARl’s 2300-acre
pilot farm which is determining the
difficulties in production on a farm scale
rather than on experimental lots. Already
it has produced 32 cwt of rice per acre,
600 tons of which has been sold and
allocated to Singapore and Hong Kong.
With adequate irrigation 200,000 acres
can be productive.
To provide the irrigation the WA
Government drew up a £2om. irrigation
scheme to be built in gradual stages. With
£sm. from the Commonwealth Grants
Commission and a fortunate supply of
largely New Australian labor, the first
stage a diversion dam capable of
irrigating 30,000 acres —is now almost
complete. The next stage is the main dam
30 miles upstream to irrigate another
30,000 acres. After that comes the
addition of giant steel gates to the main
dam so that it will hold seven times as
much water as Sydney Harbor and
irrigate up to 200,000 acres. The whole
thing will then be capped of with hydro-
electric generators.
But these days the provision of good
land, good water supply, and good agri-
cultural advice is not enough to attract
the right kind of farmers to an isolated
tropical country. There have to be decent
living conditions. So the WA Govern-
ment has built Kununurra, one of those
new towns like Batchelor, Mary Kathleen
or Elizabeth, which are really like a
better - class metropolitan suburb stuck
in the middle of the outback. The farmers
will live in Kadjibut St, Kununurra, since
in the wet any houses built on the farms
would become completely inaccessible.
The Kadjibut St houses can be rented
cheaply and have electric power, air-
conditioning, reticulated water, solar hot
water systems, and septic tanks. The
town has a school, banks and a post
office. Plans are under way for a golf
course, a bowls green, a tennis court,
a cricket field, and for boating and
fishing on the diversion dam. For mod.
cons, these Kadjibut St farmers will be
far better off than most people in the
capital cities.
With so much invested and so much
at stake the WA Government is deter-
mined to avoid the mistakes of so many
earlier land settlement schemes which
boiled down to settling a lot of no-hopers
on the land. At the moment applications
have been called for only five farms, each
of 600 acres and each with identical soil
type, water supply and drainage con-
ditions. The successful applicants will
get 30-year leases convertible to Crown
Grants. The Government will improve
the farm at up to £2O an acre, and
clear, plough and prepare the land. It
will also provide the necessary irrigation
channels, headworks and drains. For the
first five years the farmer must accept
expert advice based on research and ex-
perience as to what crop to grow, what
area to fallow, when to plant, harvest and
water, how to cultivate, seed and ferti-
lise. The farmer can reasonably expect a
yield for cotton of 17501 b. seed cotton
per acre, li tons of paddy rice per acre,
1 ton of safflower per acre, and 15 cwt.
of linseed per acre.
Naturally all applicants, and their
wives, will be carefully screened. Too
much money is involved and too many
high hopes for the Government to be
able to afford any blunders. It takes a
definite type of man and woman to live
in the tropics where the average tempera-
ture is 95 and for three months is over
100, and a definite kind of farmer to
succeed there. Presumably someone with
experience of tropical farming or of rice
and cotton will have an advantage but
the Government plans to be as flexible
as possible.
But despite the help the Government
will give there is a case to be made out
that it is not doing enough. It seems
certain that the successful applicant will
have to be a pretty substantial man. It is
not clear how much money he will need;
estimates vary from £lO,OOO and
£20,000. He will need £750 for the
land (£1 per acre plus £l5O survey
fee) though for the first five years he
need only pay the interest on this. He
will need £9OO per year for water. He
will need over £3OO for rent. (Or about
£5OOO if he buys the house.) He will
need £7300 for equipment if he kicks
off with safflower, and another £lO,OOO
when he moves on to cotton. He will also
need finance for a couple of laborers —
though how he will be able to keep them
on the farm while the main dam is being
built and laborers there can get £5O a
week is a mystery. Even stretching every
point and making do with the minimum
he will need at least £lO,OOO. This
consideration will surely rule out a lot
of enterprising young farmers who simply
cannot raise that sort of money, and it
will frighten off quite a few who can
perhaps raise a total of £lO,OOO but will
be reluctant to put every penny of their
life’s savings into a scheme that with bad
seasons or other bad luck could lose them
the lot.
The only solution to these problems
may be for the WA Government to
instruct its bank to back suitable but
unfinancial applicants. The pioneer in
this Ord River scheme has been the
WA Government. It may have to do a
little more.
The Real Pioneers
HThe real pioneer in the whole Kim-
A berley region, however, is Associated
Rural Industries which was the first to
show that rice could be grown on a com-
mercial scale on the Fitzroy River about
600 miles south of Kununurra (where the
results of research on the Ord do not
usually apply). It is a long story involv-
ing the overcoming of opposition from
the Kimberley pastoralists, from the WA
Legislative Council and Press which were
influenced by the pastoralists, from a
general WA prejudice against city
slickers from the East after a quick quid,
and even from rice growers in other parts
of Australia who feared competition from
new growers.
It all began in 1949 when Mr Peter
Farley, chairman of Associated Rural
Industries, visited the Kimberleys with
Mr H. V. Johnson the Federal member
for the Kimberleys and the Minister for
the Interior in the Chifley Government.
They were old friends from the 1920’s


and 1930’s when Johnson was an AWU
official and Farley was the Union's
auditor and financial adviser. Farley
had also had years of experience in the
rice business as chairman of Australian
Rice which had interests in the Murrum-
bidgee Irrigation Area. He soon saw the
obvious possibilities in the black soil of
the river flats and on his return to Sydney
arranged for Australia’s leading rice
expert, Mr W. A. Poggendorff of the
NSW Department of Agriculture, to be
given leave so that Farley could send him
to the Kimberieys to investigate more
closely. Poggendorff reported cautiously
but favorably. After successful experi-
ments with rice and safflower were
carried out by Mr Kim Durack on 80
acres irrigated by water pumped from a
pool in Uralla Creek, Associated Rural
Industries formed Northern Develop-
ments Pty Ltd to control the project.
The New Breed
X>ut the problems were only beginning.
They did not yet have the land, there
was no real irrigation system, and more
experiments were needed before full-
scale production could be undertaken.
Government plans to resume 20,000
acres on Liveringa Station were opposed
by the pastoralist-controlled Legislative
Council and it took seven years and
many amendments to get it introduced.
As it now reads the Act seems extremely
obscure to both the lay and the legal
mind, but possibly its obscurity had
something to do with it being passed.
Finally, in January, 1958, the first com-
mercial rice crop was planted under the
enterprising and experienced manage-
ment of Keith Corey, formerly of the
Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area, who,
with wife Joan, is the symbol of the
new breed of Kimberley settlers.
Lack of water, floods, weeds, and
problems in the selection of seed (there
are 4000 varieties of rice) and time of
planting are still reducing the value of
the crop, though to date rice and fodder
to the value of £20,000 have been sold
off this property. It was only in Decem-
ber last year that the irrigation problem
was finally solved after the WA Govern-
ment had spent £lm. in providing
40,000 acre feet of irrigation water. The
Government has also built access roads
and the township of Camballin which in
time will be a town like Kununurra. The
project is now poised for success in the
growing of rice, safflower, linseed, cotton
and fodder crops, mostly Sudan grass and
sorghum.
Two outstanding problems remain
which if solved would make the company
fai more profitable far more quickly.
The first is the purchase of the Liveringa
sheep property from which the 20,000
acres were resumed for the Camballin
project. If Camballin and Liveringa
were merged and Camballin’s resources
as a fodder producer fully exploited the
two properties would form a more profit-
able unit than either could separately.
There are 9000 £1 shares in the
Kimberley Pastoral Co. which owns
Liveringa but so far although Northern
Developments has offered <£32 per share
they have only obtained 21 per cent of
the capital. Negotiations are continuing.
The other problem is transport. As
in the Kununurra scheme unless sub-
stantial Government subsidies are avail-
able, economic farming is not possible
while exorbitant freight charges prevail
or until crops are produced on such a
scale as to warrant charter ships. Mean-
while the Government is planning a deep
water port in the West Kimberley and
has prepared an £Bm. Kimberley roads
project. Both plans will need Federal
money.
This underlines the basic point
recently made by the WA Premier
Brand the need for a comprehensive
Commonwealth - financed North Aus-
tralian Development Commission in-
volving WA, the Northern Territory
(which is already involved in the Ord
River scheme) and Queensland. ‘What
we need now,” he said, “is a film ten-
year plan, backed by a Commonwealth
guarantee of annual capital contributions
of approximately £2m. a year. A ten-
year period would be short enough to be
realistic, but long enough to get some-
thing worthwhile done”.
Up in the Kimberieys they have a say-
ing “Going Kimberley”. In some
usages it means going mad, “troppo”,
in the heat and isolation. In others, it
means something approaching fanaticism
in one’s belief in the potential wealth of
the area. If confidence, enthusiasm and
caution are part of it everyone is going
Kimberley.
NO CHICKENFEED
FROM MR CAREY
When you're dealing in mill ions,
it's the little things that count
By PATRICIA ROIFE
The reaction of Mr William Carey,
of New York, to the idea that a
gossip columnist would be more
interested in the fact that Mr Carey is 32,
a bachelor and a millionaire than he
Vv'ould be in the intricacies of inter-
national finance was pained surprise.
My financial standing is my own affair,”
Mr Carey said, angrily thrusting the
Sydney daily into the wastepaper basket.
This does not mean that Mr Carev
who is 32, a bachelor and whose financial
standing is his own affair, ignores the
personal element in business. “Financial
institutions are made up of human
beings,” is his axiom, and acting on that,
he is prepared to suggest that the fact
that Americans like Australians will be
the deciding factor in bringing more
American money here " °
“You have great political stability and
wonderful growth possibilities which add
up to an unequalled investment climate ”
mo r s, C r y Aui d anl bUt
rests other Americans’
themselves. have appeal
They have personality. 1 meet them
coming through New York and they
make a big impression,
“We have the same language, much
the same laws. I went to see the Pruden-
tial Assurance Company of America to
interest them in making loan money
available for Australia. They had just
made a big loan to Kobe Steel of Japan,
which brought them up to the maximum
which US law allows them to lend out-
side the States - But they said to me,
‘ We wish wed bad y° ur proposition
about Australia first’.”
Mr Carey first became interested in
Australia because of the impression an
Australian, Mr Geoffrey Jacoby, son of
Mr lan Jacob Y’ the head of Custom
Credit made ° n him ' “ J met GeofT seve ~
ral years ago,” Mr Carey said. “He told
"!!, Wth . St ° ry ,.° f Custom Credi j
“1- ° f , °' her Au f l t l,an c , Or P° ra,lons '
u f AuStr f a has pOSS ,"
‘ZZ
' n ' nBS W A ere '' ke that 1° yearS ag °’ bl "
*° " ’


DO YOU LIKE
THE NEW LOOK
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 2521 G.P.0., Sydney
NAME
ADDRESS
Please arrange for my BULLETIN to
be delivered to me each week by
MY NEWSAGENT
BY DIRECT SUBSCRIPTION
Please tick ( y) whichever method of
delivery you prefer.
For those desiring direct sub-
scription:
Please find enclosed my cheque/money
order for months subscription to
THE BULLETIN.
RATES (Australia and New Guinea): 1 year—
£2 125.; Vz year—£l 6s. Post free. British
Dominions: £3 6s. Other countries: £3 16s.
N.Z. SUBSCRIPTIONS (Remit to Box 965,
Wellington, N.Z.): 1 year—£2 12s. (N.Z.
currency); i/ 2 year—£l 6s. (N.Z. currency).
Please add exchange to cheques.
Perhaps this is the first issue of THE BULLETIN you
have read. But whether you are a new reader or an
old one why don't you make sure of YOUR copy of
THE BULLETIN by ordering it each week? There are
two ways of doing it either through your newsagent
or by direct subscription. The form at left offers you
your choice of method of delivery. You may send us
your name and address and we will arrange for the
newsagent nearest you to deliver your copy of
THE BULLETIN each week and charge it to your account.
Or, if you prefer it, we will mail each week's copy
to your address by direct subscription.
The
Bulletin
Incorporating The Australian Financial Times
Mr Carey apparently believes that
other Americans can be swayed as he
was.
“There is an emotional element in
business and businessmen can often,
other things being equal, be decided by
little things,” he said. “My brother and
I went to see an insurance company
about making funds available on loan
in Australia. Australia was something
new to them, but my brother told them
a joke that an Australian had told him.
That broke the ice and things went more
smoothly after that.
“Last year, after your credit squeeze,
US pensions fund, which had made
available money on loan to an Australian
firm was getting annoyed that the money
wasn’t being put to work here as quickly
as possible. Then John Glenn made his
space flight and the people of Perth
switched on all their lights to help him
track his path. That made an impression
on the pensions fund people. After that
they more or less said, ‘O.K., leave them
alone. Let them do things in their own
time’.”
And what will Mr Carey do for the
sake of our blue eyes?
Mr Carey is president of Carey Inter-
national, a company he began in 1959
to secure American finance for loans to
foreign countries, with Australia par-
ticularly in view, but with side-glances to
France, Japan and Formosa.
The first loans which Mr Carey’s com-
pany arranged totalled nearly £900,000
and were made to International Leasing
Corporation, of Sydney. These loans,
from the funds of the US Employees’
Pension Fund, were primarily to enable
International Leasing to lease capital
equipment to companies for specific
projects.
Mr Carey has now made arrangements
for a <£450,000 loan to a nationally
known Australian company. He hopes to
announce details of this before he ends
his fortnight’s visit here if the legal work
can be cleared up.
He says he now has about £ 13,500,000
available from US banks, insurance
companies and pensions funds for loans
to Australian companies.
“We are the first company making
American money available here directly
for loans,” he said. “Of course, a lot
of American companies have equity in
Australian companies or American-owned
subsidiaries here, but we are the first in
our field. We had to establish a proce-
dure for that first loan to International
Leasing. We couldn’t get anyone on Wall
Street to handle it, so we did it ourselves.
But once a procedure is established
things are easier.
“This is only the beginning. If things
go well I will come to Australia every
year.”
While Mr Carey is here he will visit
all States, except, perhaps this time, Tas-
mania, and will talk to Treasury officials
and members of the Reserve Bank staff
about possibilities.
Does he have any bias towards com-
panies of a certain size or type?
“Not at all,” he said. “However, I am
interested in companies with national
credit standing and companies which are
in the business of exporting or in one
way or another help to reduce the
volume of imports and help to maintain
a favorable balance of payments. But I
am willing to listen to any reasonable
proposition.”


R. G. MENZIES-AN ENGLISH VIEW
". .. His greatest eloquence reserved to defend a world gone forever?“
T ONDON has always recognised
Mr Menzies’ talent, ability and
intellect. This profile appeared in a
recent issue of the London Observer
when Mr Menzies was courting un-
popularity by his uncompromising
stand in London on behalf of Aus-
tralian interests.
Big, fleshy, handsome, with the head
of one of the later Roman
Emperors, Robert Gordon Menzies
walks and talks like a man who has
grown used to power.
And well he may. After a modest
childhood and a brilliant apprenticeship
at the Bar he became Attorney General
of Victoria at 38, Attorney General of
Australia and Deputy Leader of his party
at 41, and Prime Minister for the first
time at 44. In his second innings he has
now governed Australia for 12 con-
secutive years—a record never equalled
before and not likely soon to be sur-
passed. It must be difficult for him to
imagine, as he takes his seat on the
Government front bench in Canberra,
that anyone else should ever sit there.
Yet Mr Menzies, who is always a
political realist, must know that his long
reign is seriously threatened. The last
Federal election left the Liberal-Country
Party coalition, which he leads, with a
majority of only one in the House of
Representatives, and the Senate almost
equally divided between Government and
Opposition. Public opinion is still moving
against his Government, and the feud
between the Catholic Right and the rest
of the Australian Labor Party, which
has kept it out of office so long, looks
as if it may be brought to an end at last.
Mr Menzies’ visit to this country has
therefore a dual purpose: he is fighting
to preserve Australia’s trade with Britain
and all the links of the Commonwealth
which he values so highly; he is also
fighting tor his own position. Perhaps
only a striking success in London can
now give him another term of office.
What has Mr Menzies done with
power, and what has power done with
Mr Menzies? In one way he has been
lucky. He has presided over Australia
during a period of remarkable economic
expansion which began with the Korean
war and has continued, in fits and starts,
ever since.
Yet when the history of these years
is examined more closely it is difficult
to avoid criticism. Too often the Menzies
Government seems to have been riding
the wave rather than controlling it.
Britons who grumble at the jerky pro-
gress of their economy know nothing of
the almost lunatic starts and stops ex-
perienced by Australians. Three times,
in 1952, 1955 and again last year, the
Australian economy has been brought
screeching to a halt after a period of
runaway inflation.
Admittedly it is not easy to control
a rapidly growing economy with a high
rate of immigration, but many critics feel
that the Menzies Government has never
really understood the forces at work and
has failed to provide the necessary basis
of primary industry, of public services
and transport for this expansion.
In foreign policy Mr Menzies has
sensibly turned more and more to the
United States for defence, but his obvious
lack of interest and ill-concealed con-
tempt for the new countries of Asia has
left Australia dangerously isolated. This
was not so serious so long as Mr Casey
(now Lord Casey) was there to counter
it as Foreign Minister, but for two years
after Mr Casey’s resignation in January,
1960, Mr Menzies made the disastrous
blunder of acting as his own Foreign
Minister.
What has power done to Mr Menzies?
His critics say that he has become lazy
and that he no longer does his home-
work. This is perhaps unfair. Mr
Menzies himself complains with some
justice that an Australian Prime Minister
has no time to be lazy—he is far too busy
seeing pressure-groups and politicians
who would never get near 10, Downing
Street, or carrying out tasks which a
British Prime Minister or an American
President would leave to a large and
efficient staff.
The truth is, perhaps, that Mr Menzies
is by nature a politician rather than an
administrator. He was at his best in the
lean years after his defeat in 1941 when
he rallied and rebuilt the Liberal Party


out of the ruins of the United Australian
Party. Since then he has used his
immense abilities chiefly to keep his
party in power and exploit the divisions
in the Labor Party.
He hugely enjoys the political battle,
whether he is swapping insults with
miners in a crowded hall or scoring
points with effortless ease off the Opposi-
tion in Parliament. Those who heard it
will not easily forget his speech in the
debate on the Petrov Commission
F'etrov was the Russian diplomat who
sought refuge in Australia —when he
crushed, brutally and finally, the un-
fortunate Labor leader, Dr. Evatt.
Mr Menzies’ wit, eloquence and
dominating personality are formidable
weapons, but they do not make him
loved—either by his colleagues who fear
him, the Liberal backbenchers whom he
contemptuously silences, the journalists
who have to put up with his ridicule at
Press conferences or the public whom he
occasionally scolds for “grizzling”. Aus-
tralians admire and respect “Ming”
an allusion to the correct Scottish pro-
nunciation of his name which, of course,
is never used in Australia—but they do
not love him. Visitors to Australia are
frequently surprised by his unpopularity.
Among his intimates Mr Menzies can
be a charming companion, but it is the
charm of a Renaissance prince relaxing
with his courtiers. Anyone invited, for
instance, to have a drink with Mr
Menzies and his Ministers in the little
room outside the Cabinet Room in
Parliament House at Canberra must be
slightly astonished at the excessive
laughter and knee-slapping which greets
the Prime Minister’s anecdotes. Away
from the presence a senior Minister will
confide that he is worried because “Bob
hasn’t spoken to me for a fortnight”.
Of all his present Ministers only Mr
McEwen has the ability and courage
consistently to stand up to him.
Perhaps this lonely eminence some-
times wearies Mr Menzies himself. He
enjoys being a big fish in a small pool,
but at times the pool has seemed
altogether too cramped for such a
splendid creature. Certainly there is
nothing he likes more than an occasional
splash in wider seas. The difficulty has
always been to find a suitable role to
play.
His chance seemed to have come with
the Suez crisis in 1956. Mr Menzies was
in Washington when it broke. It is said
that he was at first inclined to oppose
Eden’s policy as his Foreign Minister,
Mr Casey, certainly did. But an appeal
from Sir Anthony brought him hurrying
to London and a talk with the British
Prime Minister completed his conversion.
From that moment Mr Menzies be-
came Sir Anthony Eden’s strongest
supporter. Later he was chosen as chair-
man of the five-nation committee to place
the British proposals before the Egyptian
Government in Cairo, but even Mr
Menzies’ skill as an advocate could
not budge President Nasser who had
calculated correctly that the US
would not back the use of force. This
mission failed and Mr Menzies was left
as the champion of a discredited cause.
Mr Menzies suffered an even greater
reverse last year at the Prime Ministers’
conference in London. He had decided
to make himself the defender of South
Africa, not because he approves of
apartheid though perhaps he is less
shocked by it than some others but
because he is passionately loyal to the
Commonwealth and especially to the
older “white” Dominions, whom he
regards as the only reliable members.
After a two-hour interview with Mr
Macmillan, Mr Menzies believed that
they had agreed on a formula which
would keep South Africa in—but after a
weekend spent with Mr Nehru, Mr Mac-
millan produced quite a different formula.
Mr Menzies felt humiliated and deceived,
and the fact that it was Mr Nehru who
triumphed, rubbed salt in his wounds.
Mr Nehru is not Mr Menzies’ favorite
Prime Minister.
The present visit cannot therefore be
altogether happy for either Mr Menzies
or Mr Macmillan. Mr Menzies now
regards Mr Macmillan as a lightweight
who does not really care for the Com-
monwealth and is easily shifted either
by the wind of change or by the political
advantage of the moment.
Mr Macmillan must know that Mr
Menzies is his most dangerous opponent
on the issue of the Common Market, a
bonny fighter who will use every weapon
at his disposal to defend his country’s
interests.
Mr Menzies, like Sir Roy Welensky,
can speak directly to Conservative back-
benchers in language which appeals to
their deepest emotions. This advantage
should not be underrated. At his best,
Mr Menzies is a great orator. He is
perhaps the last overseas statesman who
can speak movingly of the Queen and
the Empire because he sincerely believes
in them. But like Burke, his greatest
eloquence is reserved to defend a world
that is gone forever.
★ ★ ★
And the golden, beloved capital of the
Commonwealth, where Mr Menzies is
arguing so eloquently and which he
loves so much? The Observer’s Patrick
O’Donovan writes:
Unnoticed except by foreigners, Lon-
don has become one of the desirable
cities in the world. The long years of
criticism and postwar disgust from artists,
gourmets, tourists, antiquarians, reform-
ers, cranks and foreigners have taken
effect. London is again lavish and elegant.
It is splendid to look at. It is heavenly
to spend money in. It is still at heart
conservative. It would still not really
tolerate a genuinely modern building.
It is still suspicious of strangers.
But the public face of London has
never shone brighter. Maybe the people
who wear this mask are not quite the
same as they were before the war, but
the apparently bottomless well of middle-
class inherited capital is still unplumbed.
The ladies in their hats and gloves (no
parcels) lunch serenely in the Ritz torn
between gulls eggs and a nice clear soup.
The city men, in ordered mobs, come
puffing, red-faced and cigared, out of
Simpsons in the Strand having eaten
dangerously of meat and two veg. The
bowler hats and dark suits hurry with a
spurious briskness into the pillared por-
ticos of their clubs anxious for moderate
quantities of drink and for little arrange-
ments among friends that will turn out to
their mutual advantage.
There is, first, the fantastic work of
restoration that has reached far beyond
war damage back into history. There are
the Wren churches, those exquisite private
treasures of London, now emerging
painted and plastered, like jewel boxes
inside. The only problem is what to do
with them.
Round the parks, the terraces and
villas that were built for the newly-rich
subjects of the Prince Regent at the
start of the last century, have been
lovingly restored and shine with cream
paint and Wedgwood blue decorations.
Westminster Abbey has been repainted
inside and, in parts, it looks almost gay.
And, of course, that British solution to
any architectural problem flowers —-
these are everywhere, ordered, disciplined,
blooming in their appointed ranks and
colors.
Indeed, London has not been so much
fun since the days of the blackout and
the bombing. (This is, of course, a minor-
ity report.) It looks ravishingly beautiful
in its own restrained way. It is possible
to eat well—if you can tolerate plain,
expensive food. Its theatres are the most
catholic in taste and the most available
in the world. Its best shops still behave
as if everyone’s father had had an ac-
count there and as if only the very best
were worth selling. It is still a vast,
slightly tongue-in-cheek conspiracy to
pretend that almost everyone has a title
if they cared to use it, and that pleasure
is a serious, fastidious and expensive
business which demands, if not taste, at
least an education.
That public face is back, better than
ever. And the old Dickensian horrors be-
hind it have been reduced to manageable
proportions. It is not the City of God on
Earth, but it is quite a good, slap-dash,
secular dab at the thing. Until a better
city comes along, it will have to do.


Paris Newsletter
THE TRADITION OF
GORGEOUS LEGPULLS
French clarity is now a myth
From NEIL McINNES
The artist Tinguely lately presented
in Paris what he described as the
first, and epoch-making, produc-
tion in the new realm of Destructive
Art. It was a substantial masterpiece
called “Study For the End of the World”.
It was a piece of music, in the sense that
it was worked by a piano and made noise;
it was sculpture, in that it contained
plastic forms; and it was a painting, in
that it included a canvas on which colors
were to be spread. But the author pre-
ferred to call it a Self-Destruction
Machine, for it had this peculiarity, that
it was capable of only one performance.
The masterpiece was composed of 12
electric motors, a quantity of scaffolding,
numerous pulleys and conveyor belts,
smoke bombs and—perched on top of its
30-foot-high structure —a brand new
refrigerator. When the pianist began to
play the Study, the keys of the piano-
board (being wired to the electric motors)
set the contraption in jerking motion.
Gradually and majestically, the whole
thing collapsed while the smoke-bombs
released their fumes and pots of paint
were splashed on the virgin canvas. At
the end of the 30-minute performance,
there was nothing left but a tangled mass
of ironwork, and a choking, deafened and
mystified audience. In brief, the end of
the world.
I suppose one could launch into a
learned sociological analysis of this sym-
bolism, seeing in it the representation
of the anxieties that spread among a
nation that is becoming materially rich
under a shaky regime that toys with
weapons of mass destruction while rent
internally by sombre politico-criminal
feuds. Rather more cautiously, I prefer
to see in it the proof that the tradition
of gorgeous legpulls pour epater les
bourgeois is still alive among the amiable
crackpots of the Parisian art world.
There is a surprising passage in Taine’s
history of the French Revolution where
he suspends the description of the Terror,
riots, executions and panics to remind us
how normal most of Paris remained
throughout: business as usual, extrava-
gant amusements around the Champs
Elysees, and bloody politics in the odd
quarter-hours. This comes as a shock,
because Taine has just before said, in a
celebrated and unfortunate metaphor,
that France was a person in the DT’s
walking on his head; in reality the earth-
shaking convulsions that horrified Europe
were episodes in odd quarters of the city.
So it has been with France’s troubles
these last few years; most Parisians have
seen no certain evidence of them outside
the newspaper headlines.
Thus, the historic and portentous
events pass, not unnoticed but uncon-
sidered, in the context of levity, luxury
and cynical wit that have long been
Paris’s backdrop. For example, in the
same week as the French magistrature
gave fresh proof, in the Salan judgment,
that there is not, and cannot be, any such
thing as “justice” in political trials, it had
to attend to another matter that many
thought as important. A naturalist
painter, Georges Guazava, brought a suit
against Picasso and a list of other modern
artists, as well as their picture-dealers,
charging that they were guilty of cheat-
ing, imposture and fraudulent traffic as
defined by the Code. They were selling
as art work that was not so, and were
mulcting the credulous of vast sums for
legpulls on a level with Tinguely’s Study
For the End of the World. The
“evidence” produced was the tally-
sheet at a recent picture sale,
where Guazava’s supposed master-
pieces went for a song while the
Picassos fetched a fortune. The judges
allowed that the complaint was sincere
and arguable, but was not to be dealt
with by the courts. Suit dismissed. That
Guazava, and the thousands who rushed
to his defence in the Press and at dinner-
tables, should have distracted Justice
from Salan and his lieutenants even for a
day may seem bizarre from the outside;
but then, the “actors” in history’s dramas
are like the character that Carson Mc-
Cullers mentions: “he saw everything in
the picture at one glance— except the
two dancing elephants”.
It is by forgetting this that one makes
the sort of mistake that ran throughout
the recent, and excellent, Times Lit.
Supp. issue devoted to contemporary
French writing. Most of the anonymous
contributors were evidently convinced
that one should find in current French
literature some reflection, or infection, of
the ghastly Algerian tragedy. The truth
is no doubt too simple: the matter has
been explicitly dealt with in a number
of excellent books which are now all
freely on sale, and has been roundly
ignored by the majority of writers who
felt, as artists, as unconcerned by it as
Guazava was by Salan or Tinguely by
de Gaulle’s atom bomb.
Nevertheless, the Times Lit. Supp., in
a closely reasoned and totally fallacious
editorial, showed how traditional French
clarity had been lost in a nightmarish
national shipwreck, where hypocrisy
about the Algerian repression and de
Gaulle’s method of “government by am-
biguity” had confused values and prosti-
tuted language. That French clarity is
today the merest myth will be denied by
no one who reads Parisian art gallery
catalogues, Algerian communiques,
Sartre’s philosophy, de Gaulle’s speeches.
But Fiench “clarity” was a myth
long before the Algerian war (whose re-
verberations in France simply continue a
civil war that has been waging for almost
200 years in this country).
What is needed, rather, is for people
to stand up and say the king has no
clothes on, as Guazava misguidedly asked
the courts to declare in regard to abstract
painting. For Guazava was unqualifiedly
correct —not in questioning the artistic
value of abstract painting but in
pointing out that the inflation of com-
mercial values in this market has assumed
the proportions of insane speculation, as
in the Dutch tulip boom, complicated, as
always in such cases, by intentional
fraud. So far almost no one is ready to
do this in Paris. Lately, I found the book-
review editor of a Parisian magazine with
Sartre’s production on the dialectic and
asked him what he thought of it. He
confessed that he had not understood a
word of it, although he had once written
on the subject himself. I waited for the
scorching review—in vain. He wasn’t
going to be the Guazava, never mind if
Sartre built a dozen self-destruction
machines in philosophy. Similarly, the
specialist reviewer in Le Monde recently
let by a book by Axelos on Marx with
half a page of respectful if non-com-
mittal comment, when it is notorious
from one end of the Left Bank to the
other that the work is a piece of pure
mystification. Only with Jean-Francois
Revel (Pourquoi des philosophes? and
La Cabale des Devots) do we find the
beginnings of the demolition operation
that will be urgent soon if French
writing is to retain (not so much as
clarity) simple intelligibility. The danger,
and the remedy, have little or nothing
to do with the political crisis and Algeria.
Surprisingly little, in French life today,
has.


SPORTING NOTIONS
GOOD ON YOU, SPORT
"Australia is not a great sporting nation , in
champions, participants or attendances"
By DISCUS
Many casual observers see Aus-
tralians as odd people who prefer
sporting idols to political, cultural
or ancestral heroes, perhaps because they
are more readily available for selling,
but even more certainly because they are
our living proof that Australians are
better than anyone else in the world.
In cold fact, Australia is not a great
sporting nation, in champions, partici-
pants or attendances. Our belief that it
is prevents it from being all it might.
The delusion merely ensures secure
tenure for a large number of officials
whose administrative records do not
match their self-assurance and sense of
importance.
As a burning example, the infallibles
who control swimming have done so
much for that sport since 1960 in Rome.
They have disciplined Dawn Fraser, and
ruled that all kids standing on the
winning dais at the national champion-
ships must be draped with towels, for
goodness’ sake.
Less than two years ago a handful of
youngsters who stood undraped on the
dais in Rome saved Australia’s reputation
as any kind of an amateur sporting
nation. Without their medals, and those
unexpectedly won by the equestrian team,
our Olympic squad might as well have
stayed at home. With them, we were
roughly about the size of Turkey, which
scored seven gold and two silver medals
—all from wrestling events.
The Australian squad gained its gold
medals in exactly three sports, including
Herb Elliott’s effort, and its total of
medals in four sports, with one bronze
in boxing. In comparison, Hungary won
six gold medals in four sports, and its
total of medals in nine sports. Hungary
might well be called a great sporting
nation.
Without a large squad of champion
swimmers, Australia would have poor
prospects at Tokyo in 1964 and it is
generally, and perhaps too readily, agreed
that our golden era in swimming has
passed. Why this should be so when
Australia has never had more Olympic
pools only the anatomy-centred con-
trollers of the sport can say.
Nor have they remarked on the fact
that only Kevin Berry and Dawn Fraser
have been invited to the Japanese swim-
ming championships while the Americans
have been asked for six swimmers and
two divers, and the Netherlands for three
women swimmers. According to the
Reuter’s cable, the Japanese have sug-
gested that Dawn Fraser should also act
as coach for the Australian “contingent”.
Five will get you ten that the Amateur
Swimming Union, having denied Miss
Fraser one trip, will not readily consent
to send her this time, with no free trip
for a coach and an official or two thrown
in.
On present trends, Australia will be
very small beer among the Olympic
sporting nations in 1964.
Perhaps this is placing too much
emphasis on the Olympic sports? Accord-
ing to a book named “The Secrets of
Australia’s Golfing Success”, “any sport
that is played widely in Australia seems
to produce its crop of world champions”.
And, “for a small nation, its record in
international sport is quite extraordi-
nary”.
What the size of this nation has to do
with success at golf escapes me. We have
more golf courses than many bigger
nations, a high standard of living which
enables so many people to play that the
clubs are crammed, and it is possible for
Australians to play the year around. In
addition, because of the high standard
of living and equable climate, golf equip-
ment manufacturers do very well indeed,
and compete for the privilege of signing
up and developing as many promising
youngsters as they can find. Only last
week East Bros, club-making subsidiary,
Precision Forgings, added several of the
best young NSW women players to its
staff with their amateur status intact,
of course.
These occurrences are not confined to
golf. They abound in tennis in Australia,
and apply to some extent to young
swimmers. But neither tennis nor swim-
ming have the manufacturer-subsidised
Golf Foundation of Australia, one of
whose officials proudly boasts that 10,000
schoolboys and girls are receiving expert
tuition under its auspices, although only
about 1000 enter the schoolboys’
championships in all States, and only one
schoolboy champion, Bruce Crampton,
has hit the top so far.
Last year, playing the American cir-
cuit, Crampton won one $4400 tourna-
ment, the Milwaukee Open. No other
Australian won in the United States.
The hardest golf in the world is played
there. Australian professionals make their
money in Britain, New Zealand, and the
new Asian circuit. When one of our
golfers can equal Gary Player’s record in
the United States we can really crow.
South Africa is a “small nation” too.
So is Belgium, whose Flory van Donck
has won more than 20 European Opens.
Australians as footballers are highly
regarded, in Australia. The international
game, Association, had its official begin-
ning here 40 years ago but Australia
hardly rates. In Rugby Union, another
reasonably international game, Australia
has won 2 of 12 matches against Britain,
about one quarter of its matches with
New Zealand, 3 of 13 against South
Africa, and 0 of 2 against France.
Our Rugby League record against
England is laughable. In 1950 Australia
won the Ashes from England for the first
time in 30 years. Since then we have
taken one Test series in five.
What are our records in basketball,
bowls, water-skiing, polo, hockey, boxing,
big game fishing, bowls? In athletics?
When will an Australian win the modern
pentathlon? And above all, when will
Australians begin to contribute readily
in cold hard cash to send their sporting
“ambassadors” abroad instead of letting
them battle for funds and pay their own
way, as the boxers and the equestrian
team did in large measure.
As an example, in NSW the Highland
Society found that its annual Games had
so little drawing power that they were
almost abandoned. Someone had the in-
telligence to consult a former journalist
■—one of those sporting writers whose
free advice is never taken. Instead of
being abandoned, the Highland Games in
Sydney are now a mass spectacle of
bands, soccer teams, dancers, cyclists,
athletes, wrestlers, and the public's re-
sponse has been profitable.


OVERSEAS
SOUTH AFRICA-FREEDOM'S END?
Is the Anti-Sabotage BUS the final assault on South Africa's civil liberties?
From ANTHONY DELIUS in South Africa
The Afrikaner Nationalist Govern-
ment is pursuing what many South
Africans, white as well as non-
white, regard as the final assault on the
last real vestiges of democracy in the
country.
Once the General Laws Amendment or
Anti-Sabotage Bill is passed, it will make
the bleak-faced Mr John Vorster, the
Minister of Justice, most powerfully
equipped with authoritarian power in
peace time since South Africa became
independent in 1910. Not only does the
measure seem to many leading lawyers
to provide the death penalty for proven
saboteurs from the age of 10 to 100, but
it gives the word “sabotage” a meaning
which delivers the coup-de-grace to the
Republic’s already stricken civil liberties.
In the time left between now and next
week when the Bill is expected to have
gone through the Assembly and Senate,
democratic groups are throwing every
ounce of energy and organisation into
countrywide agitation against the Bill.
Already feelings are running high and
in Johannesburg, always the storm centre
of South Africa’s politics, rioting and
ugly street-scenes have taken place in
the city centre. Although there is no hope
of defeating the Bill’s passage because
the Government outnumbers the Opposi-
tion by two to one in the all-white Parlia-
ment, the organisers hope to rouse the
jaded democratic responses of the
country to new vigor.
A mass meeting in Durban last
Thursday attended by 3500 people
featured Protestant clergymen, Dr Jan
Steytler, leader of the Progressive Party,
and the Catholic Archbishop of Durban
the Most Rev. Denis Hurley, who said:
“The greatest ally of the Communists is
the man who deals as ruthlessly as the
Communists with human rights and so
provides Communism with the opportu-
nity of parading as a friend of the op-
pressed”. Thousands of people also at-
tended special services at churches of
all denominations except the Dutch
Reformed Churches, where prayers were
offered and sermons preached against the
Bill.
The legislation has been introduced
ostensibly to deal with attempts to sabot-
age public services and apartheid institu-
tions. Sporadic efforts to cut industrial
power-lines and blow up administration
offices began in the last quarter of 1961.
They rose to a climax just before Christ-
mas when bombs exploded in several
centres in an apparently synchronised
demonstration against apartheid. The
publicity achieved was infinitely greater
than the damage. As yet the whole
attempt at sabotage gives little evidence
of being anything but amateurishly and
haphazardly organised, although the
word has been spread from the under-
ground that efforts hitherto have only
been in the nature of trial-runs.
Mr Vorster announced immediately
that a Bill was being prepared to deal
with sabotage and make it a capital crime.
But, in accordance with standard Nation-
alist practice, all details of the measure
were withheld until late in the annual
five months’ Parliamentary session. The
Minister then released them to a shocked
Parliament and public late in May.
In addition to making sabotage high
treason and punishable by death or a
minimum sentence of five years, the
measure, inter alia: Gives the Minister
blanket powers to ban meetings any-
where; gives him arbitrary powers of
house arrest; prohibits the publication,
without the Minister’s permission, of
statements or speeches by people listed
as Communist —the Minister’s powers
under the Suppression of Communism
Act are already so wide that he can
name anybody he wishes a Communist;
lays down that listed people can be made
to report periodically to the police; gives
the Minister (through the State President)
power to prohibit any organisation
which, in his opinion, furthers the aims
of an already suppressed organisation
which already include the Communist
Party, the African National Congress and
the Pan-African Congress.
The moderately liberal Progressive
Party which stands for a multi-racial
qualified franchise has been declared by
the Minister to be a “dangerous” and
“irresponsible” party.
But perhaps even more disturbing
than these comprehensive powers, is the
radical association of “sabotage” with
acts which are intended: To hamper
seriously or to deter any person from
assisting in the maintenance of law and
order; to cause, encourage or further an
insurrection or forcible resistance to the
Government; to further encourage the
achievement of any political aim, includ-
ing the bringing about of any social or
economic change in the Republic; to
cause, encourage or further feelings of


hostility between different sections of'the
population....
thiese provisions appear to most Op-
position members to complete the creep-
ing process by which the Government
has, during its 14 years of power, been
paralysing civil rights and constitutional
resistance to the policy of apartheid. One
newspaper summarised the number of
Acts put on the statute book by the
Nationalists to curb civil liberties —the
list ran to nearly six columns.
The Anti-Sabotage Bill gives the
general impression of tying up all its
legislative loose-ends for the Govern-
ment, and lopping off any remaining
inconvenient rights. It completes a pro-
cess which makes practically every South
African a prisoner of his own “group
area” who enjoys his liberty on parole by
favor of the Minister of Justice.
Yerwoerd’s Heir Apparent
fTTus measure finds the 11,000,000
Africans particularly leaderless. Their
best-known leaders are either imprisoned,
exiled, or confined to small areas, such as
the Nobel Peace Prize winner, Chief
Albert Luthuli.
The initiative in the resistance to the
Bill was taken by the young and strug-
gling Progressive Party, a break-away
movement of most of the liberal elements
formerly in the United Party. Its leader,
Dr Jan Steytler, began the campaign
from Johannesburg and has continued it
by stumping the country.
There is a suspicion among the more
liberal elements of the Opposition that
the United Party will not be too vigorous
against any attempt by the Minister to
close down its bothersome breakaway
group, the Progressives. So far the
United Party has confined its protests to
Parliament and has taken no conspicuous
part in the extra-parliamentary protests,
although it has the most massive political
machinery in the country after the
Nationalists.
For the 46-year-old Minister, Mr
Vorster, the Bill and the prominence it
brings him provide a means of making
his position as heir-apparent to Dr Ver-
woerd more secure against his only real
challenger, the smooth Dr Jan de Klerk,
Minister of the Interior. He can present
himself as the “strong man” who will one
day be able to take over from another
“strong man”. Toughness, strength, and
an appearance of an implacable attach-
ment to the “ideal of the white race” are
qualities most highly regarded in an
Afrikaner Nationalist leader.
But what must most appeal to Mr
Vorster’s wintry sense of humor is the
fact that he, who was sent to a detention
camp by the Smuts Government for
suspected attempts at sabotage during the
war for democracy, will soon be the
nation’s main defence against sabotage—
and democracy.
THOSE WALL ST BLUES
"Black Monday" and after
From GODFREY HODGSON in Washington
After weeks of steady downward
sliding on Wall Street, the Stock
Market really went over the edge
recently. Panicky small investors had
joined calculating professionals and were
selling wildly. Yet business conditions re-
main good. The market break is the end
of an era, and not the beginning of a
crash. One must not underestimate the
market. It is a potent economic factor, as
well as an enigmatic economic index. And
that Monday—what is already being
called Black Monday—was a bad day by
any historical standards, including those
of the great crash.
The ticker tape, the new, fast tape, was
almost 2} hours late, later than it ever
was in 1929. The
Dow Jones index fell
35 points to 577,
more points, though
not more as a per-
centage than any
time since October
29, 1929, the Tues-
day after Black
Thursday. Some
brokerage houses
(not many), have had
to sell out for the
value of their furni-
ture. Many investors
have lost all they
have gained in the last three or four
years and some of them are being
required to sell.
But there are at least three big differ-
ences from 1929. Margin requirements
mean that investors have not been specu-
lating to anything like the same extent
on borrowed money. Tighter regulations
mean that financial pyramids of watered
stock like those that came tumbling
down in the great 1929 crash hardly
exist today. And, most important, the
indices show that business itself, the
production and sales underlying the
inflated values of the market, is strong.
Unemployment is falling. Personal in-
come is at a new high. The automobile
industry is actually booming. Govern-
ment spending is high, and there are
plans for it to be higher. Only steel
among the major industries is suffering
from falling production, and this is be-
cause users had built up big inventories
before the recent wage settlement.
Nevertheless, such a sharp decline in
the market can actually affect business
unfavorably, in two main ways. It means
that consumers will hesitate before
making major purchases—they will put
off buying an expensive car on credit,
for example. And it means —indeed it
has already shown actual signs of leading
to —a cutback in industry’s investment
plans.
But if the market crack does not
reflect poor business prospects and
both the Administration and indepen-
dent economists insist that 1962 will
be a good year, and 1963 a better one—
what does it mean?
It is significant that though the in-
stitutions and professionals on Wall Street
had been selling since the market
reached its peak with Dow Jones at 735
on December 13 last year, selling really
gathered momentum
on Friday, April 13,
when the steel com-
panies capitulated to
President Kennedy’s
onslaught and with-
drew their price rise.
There seems to be
two main causes be-
hind the price fall.
One is the late real-
isation of objective
fact—namely, of the
end of inflation. The
second is a subject-
ive fear among busi-
ness men that this Administration, which
looks good for another six years, is
basically anti-business. Friday, April 13,
rubbed both facts home.
The events of that day showed that
the Administration really meant to fight
with the gloves off to prevent inflation —
at least inflation of prices, if not of
wages. In fact, however, there has been
no inflation to speak of in this country
for four years. Wholesale prices have not
moved in that time. Their index now
stands a fraction of one per cent, below
where it stood for 1958, and only a
fraction above the average for the two
years 1957 to 1959.
The Administration has already re-
acted to the fall on the market by making
reassuring noises. It will probably try
soon to counter the bad effects of the fall
by pressing its measures to encourage
business investment and its programme
for discretionary public works spending.
Wall Street may hesitate for a while, but
the cooler heads will be moving in for
bargains soon. Rash as it sounds to make
any such prediction at the moment, the
market is probably near its bottom.


KENYATTA v. MBOYA
Pro-Communists are wrecking Kenyatta's KANU Party
From GORDON MACLEAN in Nairobi
JOMO KENYATTA
One of the greatest embarrassments
to Jomo Kenyatta’s Kenya African
National Union (KANU) at a time
when it is trying its hardest to establish
itself as the Government to lead Kenya
into independence, is its vociferous Left-
wing, which at times displays strong pro-
Communist leanings.
Members’ frequent statements, in praise
either of Soviet or Chinese methods,
receive plenty of publicity and are eagerly
seized on by KANU’s rival, the Kenya
African Democratic Union (KADU),
which is constantly stressing the dangers
of dictatorship in Kenya and the evil
influences resulting from Communist
money in the country.
For some years the Left-wing torch
was carried almost single-handed by the
jovial Luo leader, Mr Oginga Odinga
who, his critics allege, received large sums
of money from Communist sources with
the object of disrupting the political
pattern in Kenya and East Africa. Since
the last general election, however, Mr
Odinga has been joined on the Left by
several other KANU supporters and they
now form a strong faction within KANU
itself. Mr Odinga is now leader of a
Parliamentary Opposition group con-
taining some of these men.
Mr Kenyatta has shown since his re-
lease from detention last year, that he is
anxious to avoid being identified either
with the East or with the West, but at
the same time works hard to maintain the
essential unity within KANU, despite the
opposing forces of the Left-wingers and
the equally strong forces exerted by the
Right-wing.
On the Right is Mr Tom Mboya, the
man whom his critics on the Left portray
as being a “tool of American imperialism”
because of the considerable support he
received from American and other
Western trade union organisations during
the years he was Secretary-General of the
Kenya Federation Of Labor.
With Mr Kenyatta in the centre are
many of his “Old Guard”, the men who
shared the years of restriction with him,
and who are determined, like so many
other African nationalists, not to get
caught up in the East-West political
struggle.
Mr Kenyatta stressed his fears the
other day at a Fort Hall meeting when
he advised his Kikuyu audience against
accepting foreign money “and becoming
other people's slaves”.
The ideological struggle within KANU
has also extended to its so-called youth
wing, an unruly pressure group with
radical ideas. Youth wingers recently
clashed openly with Mr Kenyatta over his
selection of Kenya delegates to the Pan-
African Youth Conference at Conakry,
in Guinea, and showed that opposing
forces are at work within this organisa-
tion as well. Mr Odinga has many suppor-
ters in the youth wing.
So far, Mr Kenyatta has not been
required to make a choice between the
two groups within KANU, but it is known
he greatly values the long-standing friend-
ship with Mr Odinga, who was the first
Kenya politician to begin the agitation
for his (Kenyatta’s) release from deten-
tion. On the other hand, the KANU
leader leans heavily on the astute Mr
Mboya for advice,, and at the Lancaster
House conference, it was Mr Mboya who
played the leading role. But Mr Ken-
yatta did not take kindly to the British
Government's decision to bar Mr Odinga
from holding Ministerial office in the
coalition Government. Last week he made
it clear that once Kenya attains indepen-
dence and KANU, as he hopes, becomes
the first independent Government, the
most important Ministerial post will go
to Mr Odinga—and Mr Mboya will have
to bide his time.
STRANGERS IN DUBNA
European-Soviet scientific exchange
From MARK FRANKLAND in Moscow
An aspect of the Soviet Union’s external
relations that seldom gets much
publicity is the constant though still
small flow of academic, scientific and
cultural contacts with the Western world.
Yet it is in these contacts and their
development that some Western obser-
vers here see the best hope of gradually
“normalising” Russia's relations with the
non-Communist world.
In this respect, an important place to
watch is a small town on the Volga some
80 miles north of Moscow called Dubna.
Dubna is the home of the Joint Institute
for Nuclear Research. Set up in 1956, it
is an international research organisation
concerned only with the peaceful study
of nuclear physics.
At the moment the member States
which take part in and finance the Insti-
tute s work are all Socialist-bloc countries,
among them China, North Korea and
North Vietnam. However, contacts with
non-Socialist countries are increasing and
the Institute has been visited by many of
the West's most eminent scientists. More
important, information is exchanged with
research institutes abroad and since 1960
there has been a personal exchange
program with CERN (the European Or-
ganisation for Nuclear Research) which
has its headquarters at Geneva.
At present there are only two CERN
scientists at Dubna, one from West Ger-
many and the other from Britain. All
the work going on at Dubna is open to
them. Although a year spent there does
not necessarily mean that a Western
scientist will go away with a lot of new
knowledge, there does seem to be great
awareness that this is a unique chance
to help speed up the exchange of inform-
ation on nuclear research with Soviet
scientists.
This is not to say that there is always
less awareness of the importance of this
on the Soviet side. Dubna’s director, Pro-
fessor D. 1. Blokhinsev, recently pointed
out to a group of visiting journalists that
the cost of new equipment for nuclear
research such as an accelerator is so vast
that co-ordination between nuclear physi-
cists throughout the world is essential.
At the moment, however, the co-opera-
tion at Dubna is chiefly between scien-
tists from Socialist-bloc countries, and
the scientific budget of over one million
roubles a year is supplied in proportion
by these countries, the Soviet Union
paying 47 per cent, China 20 per cent,
and so on. There are 70 Chinese at
Dubna. Similarly, Dubna is governed by
an administrative and a scientific council,
both international in composition There
are 400 scientists studying there, half of
them from the bloc countries.


FORUM
COLONIALISM
IN OUR LITERATURE
My Thirty Years' War
By P. R. STEPHENSEN
IT is a special privilege for me to have returned to the arms of my Alma
Mater shall I say as a Prodigal Son? Forty years ago 1 graduated from
the old Government House in the Domain. At that time we had only three
faculties Arts, Science, and Engineering. We had five professors, a
dozen or so lecturers, and less than 300 students. Our motto was, as it re-
mains here today, ‘SEMPER FLOREAT pass the torch eternal burst
the bars”.
Thirty-eight years ago, I was sent away from Queensland to Oxford,
to see if I could learn more there than I had learned here. That was one
way of getting rid of me. This is the first time that I have returned to
my academic cradle. I find it enlarged so greatly that there is now a
student enrolment here equal to, or greater than, that of Oxford. Almost
everything can now be learned here, with an exception that I shall be
mentioning presently.
After you have heard me, you may
consider that I should have stayed away
longer than thirty-eight years, or until I
learned to speak more comfortable words
than I shall have to offer you; but you
may excuse me, for this personal pre-
amble, and for speaking unequivocally,
if I remind you that most of my work-
ing life has been spent, not in the
academic teaching of literature, but in
the rough-and-tumble of the market-
place, where books are actually written,
manufactured and sold as commodities
to the general public.
Thirty years ago, I returned from
Britain to my homeland, Australia. Since
then I have lived in the southern States,
where there was more scope than in
Queenslrr ' for the difficult career of
an professional man of letters,
who relies only on the patronage of the
book-buying public, without governmen-
tal or institutional support. Sydney was
the original citadel of colonialism in
Australia, but was also the place where
Australian nationalism had attempted,
from time to time, to find a literary ex-
pression.
In the 19305, the continent of Aust-
ralia was regarded as a permanent col-
onial dependency of Britain. I am not
speaking politically, but of the attitude
of most of the educated Australians of
that time in looking to London for
leadership and guidance in intellectual
and cultural activities, and especially in
literary judgments. This attitude defined
Australia as a second-rate community,
province, or colony, in which ideas could
not be originated, but only imitated.
I found myself engaged in what could
be called a Thirty Years’ War for the
defence of Australian Literature against
the many attempts that were being made,
and are still being made to some extent,
to undermine it. The opposition, I regret
to say, was entrenched chiefly in the
colonially-based traditions of the teach-
ing of literature in Australian universities.
This is an abridgment of a Com-
monwealth Literary Fund Lecture
which Mr P. R. Stephensen delivered
at the University of Queensland
earlier this month. We are pleased
to publish it in the Forum section
of THE BULLETIN which is reserv-
ed for opinions or polemics that may
be of general interest but do not
necessarily reflect the views of THE
BULLETIN.
It was as though, when the last British
imperial redcoat military garrison was
withdrawn from Australia in 1870
leaving us to undertake our own military
defence a black-gowned rearguard
was left in the universities.
There have been many indications,
in recent years, of a change for the
better, but vestiges of colonialism re-
main in Australian citadels of learning
and propaganda and will remain there
until the diehards die out.
We should guard against an estrange-
ment between university life and the
life of the people. Australian literature,
like that of any other country, is an ex-
pression of the life of all the people,
and not only of university cliques, who
make a living by following foreign
fashions, and taking in one another’s
washing. The main body of Australian
literature has therefore been built up,
and will continue to be built up, by
writers with that non-academic, profes-
sional outlook, whose first aim is to
supply reading-matter to please the aver-
age or ordinary Australian readers of
books. These professional writers are
unique among workers in our com-
munity. They have no benefit of gov-
ernmental protection for their industry
by tariffs, subsidies, or anything of that
kind. They have no Arbitration Court
awards or Basic Wage. They must write
books which can be commercially pub-
lished, and sold in large quantities, to
yield an income from royalties on those
sales; or, if that fails, they must starve,
or go into exile, or cease writing books.
To make matters worse, Australian
professional writers have access to only
ten per cent, of the market for books
in Australia. A research, recently com-
pleted by the Victorian Institute of Public
Affairs, indicates that in 1959 Austral-
ians paid £lB million for reading-matter,
and that 90 per cent, of the books sold
in Australia were imported, chiefly from
Britain and the U.S.A.
It is not surprising, then, that many
Australian professional writers have gone
away to live in Britain or America, and
others who continue to live here have
been impelled to write for publication
abroad, studying the market demands,
not of their own people, but of book-
readers in those faraway countries. This
frustration of Australian literary talent
has been made worse in recent years by
the tendency of Australian publishing
houses to devote an increasing proportion
of their time and effort to supplying
examination textbooks for universities
and schools. That leaves the field of
general literature, the supply of books
for adult reading, more widely open to
British and American publishers.
A further impediment to the work of
Australian professional and non-acade-
mic writers is the attitude of disparage-
ment adopted by book-reviewers. Many
of the literary critics in Australia have
a university background, and conse-
quently a colonial and not a national at-
titude in appraising Australian books.
Probably not more than one-tenth of
the books published in Australia, or by
Australian authors, are reviewed, or even
mentioned, in the literary pages of Aus-


tralian newspapers and magazines, and
those which are reviewed are usually dis-
paraged, subtly or crudely, by reviewers
who have never themselves been able to
write books for successful publication.
Despite all these formidable difficult-
ies, Australian literature is a hardy plant,
which has survived drought and bushfires.
Australian authors have refused to lie
down and die, or to accept the old col-
onial idea that he who takes up the type-
writer shall perish by the typewriter. I
quote as an example that romantic and
delicate novel of innocent girlhood in
the Queensland bush, entitled Morning
in Queensland, by Margaret Trist, who
was born at Dalby. This novel did not
find a publisher in Australia when it was
offered in time for Queensland's cen-
tenary year of restricted colonial self-
government. It was sent to New York
and published there, in 1959, so success-
fully that it was then accepted by an
English publisher, and in that roundabout
way reached Australia, and eventually
arrived in Queensland, after most of the
centenary celebrations had ended.
The active fostering of the Australian
national spirit, by means of its expres-
sion in a living literature, has in these
ways devolved chiefly upon writers who
have not been colonially conditioned, or
otherwise handicapped, by a university
training. The development of a national
spirit, on which the survival of any com-
munity depends, is instinctive in the life
of the people. It should be encouraged
in every possible way at Australian Uni-
versities.
My suggestion, then, is that this now
big University of Queensland, which has
an enrolment as large as that of Oxford,
should establish a professional Chair of
Australian Literature, with a major place
in the curriculum.
To make that Department effective,
the collection of Australian books and
other Australian documents in the Uni-
versity Library here would need to be
extended to at least 100,000 items, ade-
quately housed and that quantity of
material for study is actually available.
Scarce items could be obtained from
other libraries as photographic replicas.
In conjunction with these studies, the
Queensland University Press could en-
large its present scope with an exten-
sive programme of publishing Australian
books, especially reprints of the very large
number of books of Australian value
which have been allowed to go out of
print in bygone years, but also includ-
ing new works, of popular and not only
of academic appeal.
Books are the repositories of know-
ledge and the messengers of ideas. There
is no substitute for books. A nation which
does not produce enough books to pro-
claim and define its existence on a civil-
ised level cannot compel respect, no
matter how many bales of wool it might
export.
This could mean that Australian gov-
ernments would think themselves justified
in refusing or in curtailing subsidies to
any Australian university in which there
is no Chair of Australian Literature.
Having made this practical suggestion,
or prediction, I may now briefly de-
fine the difference between the colonial
and national trends in our literature.
The systematic study of Australian
Literature requires that each and every
book or other document, among the
100,000 or more items of source-material,
should be appraised and classified in one
or the other of these two classes: Col-
onial and National. Does this or that
book help, or does it retard, the idea of
Australia as a homeland? That is the
question.
To put this concretely, I may suggest
that there have been ten major phases
of Australian historical development.
Each of these phases has made a distinc-
tive contribution to the Australian char-
acter, as reflected in Australian litera-
ture, within the two parallel classes of
colonial and national writings.
1. THE DREAM TIMES: (That is,
Aboriginal or Primitive Australia, as it
was in any district before European
settlers arrived.) The Aborigines had no
written literature, but they did have sung
corroborees, in which they preserved
their lore. Very few, if any, Aborigines
were given a sufficient school education
to enable them to make contributions to
Australian literature in the English
language. We have therefore no contem-
porary documentation of the Dream
Times; but there has been a great deal
of writing by white men on the Aborig-
ines. The colonial attitude was that the
Aborigines were an inferior race, and
a dying race, who should be helped to
die out. The contrasting national atti-
tude was that they were an intelligent
but culturally retarded people, who
should be helped to survive. I mention,
as an example of the national attitude,
the “Jindyworobak” movement in poetry
in the 19305, which attempted, better
late than never, to bring the Aboriginal
theme into Australian literature.
2. EXPLORATION BY SEA: Austra-
lia was not discovered by Captain Cook.
It was discovered by the Aborigines, in
the Dream Times. A long time after
that, it was discovered by a great number
of European sea-captains, of whom Cap-
tain Cook was one. What these Euro-
peans discovered was their own previous
ignorance of this continent and its sur-
rounding oceans. Those discoveries or
revelations were made over a period
within four centuries say. from 1520
A.D. to 1840 A.D. —in a large number
of voyages by navigators of many Euro-
pean nations: Portuguese, Spanish, Dutch,
French, and English. Their narratives be-
long to European literature, but also to
Australian literature. They are the
Odysseys of our Elomeric Age.
The colonial attitude is in empha-
sising the British voyages, and in ignor-
ing the others. There are more than 100
of these enthralling true sea-stories
awaiting a reprinting in popular form
by the Queensland University Press.
Australian writers have not dealt exten-
sively, in fiction and poetry, with this
great theme of exploration by sea. Ex-
ceptions are My Love Must Wait, a
novel by Ernestine JHill. based on the
life of Flinders; and Heemskerck Shoals,
an excellent poem by Robert Fitzgerald,
based on an incident in Tasman’s
voyages.
3. EXPLORATION BY LAND: The
unveiling of Terra Australis Incognita
began in 1788 with the first British settle-
ment at Sydney, and was completed on
the mainland in about eighty years, but
continued in New Guinea until the 19505.
There are more than 100 journals of
explorers awaiting reprinting. They are
documents of true experience, of fascin-
ating interest to Australians. The colonial
attitude has been expressed in an em-
phasis on the unsuccessful expeditions,
such as those of Sturt and Eyre to Cen-
tral Australia, or Burke and Wills, con-
veying the impression that Australia is
a desert “out where the dead men
lie” and in minimising the explorations
of native-born Australians, such as Hamil-
ton Hume, or of foreigners such as
Leichhardt and Strzelecki. A recent
example of the colonial attitude is in Mr
Patrick White's Voss, a fictionalised study
of Leichhardt, which ignored that ex-
plorer’s magnificent overland expedition
from Moreton Bay to Port Essington
in 1844 the virtual discovery of the
interior of Queensland - and concen-
trated attention on his failure in 1848
to cross the continent through the centre.
With this Mr White gives the German
explorer a perfectly unwarranted char-
acter as a man incompetent in making
love to a woman.
4. THE IMPERIAL CONVICT
SYSTEM: This vile system of colonisa-
tion lasted in New South Wales (includ-
ing the regions later separated as Victoria
and Queensland) for only 53 years, from
1788 to 1841. It is the least important
period in our history, from the demo-
graphic point of view, as the convicts
were soon outnumbered by free settlers.
They became a minority of less than one
per cent, after the inflow of one million


free and adventurous fortune-seekers
during the Gold Rushes of the 1850 s.
The colonial attitude to the literary
treatment of the Imperial Convict Sys-
tem has been expressed in an immense
amount of contemporary official docu-
mentation, and by later imaginative and
morbid treatments in imitation of For
the Term of His Natural Life, by Marcus
Clarke. He was a Londoner who landed
in Melbourne in 1863, with a capital
of £BOO. He ignored the vibrant life of
Australian expansion during the gold
rushes, and concentrated his attention on
sordid incidents of the convict system
in Van Diemen’s Land of some fifty
years previously. He died of drink and
melancholia at Melbourne in 1881.
The national attitude to the Convict
System was expressed in the very first
poem of Australia, Visit of Hope to
Sydney Cove, by Erasmus Darwin
(grandfather of Charles Darwin). This
was printed as epigraph to Governor
Phillip’s Voyage to Botany Bay, which
was published in London in 1789. The
truth was that the majority of the con-
victs became emancipated in Australia,
and settled in well. Only the hard cases
were flogged or put into the iron gangs,
or sent to Moreton Bay and otherwise
punished for new offences committed in
the colony. Any literary treatment of the
convict theme which exaggerates its sor-
did aspects could be regarded as neurotic,
as Marcus Clarke’s treatment of it was;
or alternatively as a colonial attempt to
disparage Australia by fostering the ridic-
ulous illusion that Australians are “des-
cended from convicts”.
5. PASTORAL DEVELOPMENT.
Throughout the Nineteenth Century, and
continuing to a large extent today, the
pastoral industry made this continent
into a vast grazing paddock, producing
chiefly wool for export to England, and
later to other countries. The squatters
were in many cases immigrants, who had
brought with them some capital, and
intended to return to England after put-
ting up with colonial life long enough to
make a fortune. Some did that, but others
remained, and founded Australian
families. Some of the squatters also were
Australian-born, for example Tyson and
Kidman. There is an immense contem-
porary documentation of the pastoral
life, in books such as Henry Stuart Rus-
sel’s Genesis of Queensland, or Gordon
Buchanan’s Packhorse and Waterhole.
Practically all these works have been
allowed to go out of print, and there are
hundreds of manuscript memoirs of pas-
toral pioneers still awaiting publication.
The literary or imaginative treatment
of pastoral life has also been extensive.
The colonial attitude in poetry is exam-
plified by the poems of Adam Lindsay
Gordon, a “remittance man”, who, suf-
fering from melancholia of the exile,
committed suicide in Melbourne in 1870,
aged 37. The national attitude is ex-
pressed in the poems of A. B. Paterson
(“The Banjo”), an Australian-born bal-
ladist who lived to the grand old age of
77, and died in Sydney in 1941.
As examples of colonial pastoral
novels, Geoffry Hamlyn, by Charles
Kingsley, is typical. He was an English-
man who visited Australia for five years,
in the 1850 s, and then went back to
England and wrote a novel of his colonial
experiences, which is deservedly a classic
of its kind.
In contrast, the national attitude is ex-
pressed in All That Swagger, by Miles
Franklin, and in Such Is Life by “Tom
Collins” (Joseph Furphy), who declared
that his work was “offensively Austra-
lian”.
6. THE GOLD RUSHES AND
LATER MINERAL DEVELOPMENT.
Strangely enough, there has not
been very much national treatment
of the great gold rush theme and of later
developments of mining. Literary empha-
sis has been placed on the bushrangers,
who occasionally robbed the diggers. The
outstanding novel was Rolf Boldrewood’s
Robbery Under Arms, which gave world-
wide publicity to the idea that Australia
is inhabited by criminals. Despite this, it is
a masterly novel, in which the adventur-
ous rather than the sordid is emphasised.
It is a valid work, but there is scope for
a much wider treatment of the more
normal aspects of the life of miners, con-
tinuing to the present day.
Henry Handel Richardson’s novel,
The Fortunes of Richard Mahony, could
be considered as a literary treatment of
the Gold Rush theme. It tells of an un-
successful digger, who became so dis-
contented with Australia that his mind
disintegrated to insanity. Written on a
downward curve of emotion, this novel
is in no sense typically Australian, ex-
cept of the colonial approach to the
Australian theme, a study of maladjust-
ment.
7. QU EEN SLAN D DEVELOP-
MENT. By this I mean the development
of “closer settlement” for farming, by
the subdivision of some of the old-time
pastoral stations. The national attitude
is exemplified in Steele Rudd’s On Our
Selection, in which the life of the “selec-
tors” was described with robust humor.
The colonial attitude was reflected in
Barbara Baynton’s Bush Studies and
Human Toll, and in some of the more
morbid stories of bush life by Henry
Lawson, works filled with whining at
the hardships of this kind of pioneer-
ing life. Steele Rudd’s attitude was far
more typically Australian.
8. URBANISATION AND LIGHT
INDUSTRY. City life was depicted in
novels such as Jonah, by Louis Stone,
and poems such as The Sentimental
Bloke, by C. J. Dennis. Those works are
essentially Australian, but they deal only
with one aspect of city life, the larrikins,
who had their own vernacular. The most
important aspect of urbanisation was in
the development of book publishing, es-
pecially in the "New South Wales Book-
stall” series, in which some 200 novels,
by seventy different authors, were pub-
lished at Sydney as paperbacks within
twenty-one years (1899 to 1920). That
was an effect of what was called “the
Nationalism of the ’Nineties”.
Urbanisation brought increased sophis-
tication, expressed for example in the
poems of Christopher Brennan, Hugh
McCrae, Bernard O’Dowd, John Shaw
Nielson, and William Baylebridge
major poets all of them, but in attempt-
ing to get away from the traditions of
the “bush balladists”, they sometimes
strove to be as non-Australian as pos-
sible. That was a colonial attitude.
9. AUSTRALIANS IN WARS
ABROAD. Despite the immense sacrifices
by Australians, in blood and treasure, in
wars abroad, the literary treatment of
this theme has not been commensurate
with the extent of those sacrifices. There
are many Australian war books, but most
of them have gone out of print. 1 may
mention William Baylebridge’s An Anzac
Muster, and Harley Matthews’ poems,
Vintage of Anzac, as examples of books
in this field which have been neglected.
These works are of national significance,
but the neglect of them is a colonial
phenomenon.
10. HEAVY INDUSTRY AND THE
MODERN AGE. With the development
of the Australian iron and steel industry,
during the 1914-18 war, Australia has
moved forward to its present-day status
as a fully-industrialised country, in which
three-quarters of the population are city-
dwellers. The characteristic of city-life
is supposed to be sophistication. This
has unfortunately been taken, by most
of our poets and many of our novelists,
to mean that they should imitate the liter-
ary fashions of London or New York.
Such an attitude is not sophisticated. It
is colonial and second-rate. It is a carry-
over of the old colonial idea that Aust-
ralians have only to follow a far-distant
lead.
Writers who can convey that atmos-
phere of self-confidence to the Australian
people will take rank as nation-builders.
The others the disparagers, the pessi-
mists, the colonial imitators of faraway
fashions having no roots in our soil,
will fade away, and no one will be sorry
to see them disappear.


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
ARBITRATION—TWO QUESTIONS
Sir,
Mr Kerr’s two questions on arbitration
(Bulletin, May 26) might be better
described as one special pleading on
behalf of the lawyers of whom he him-
self is one of the more distinguished,
especially in the field of conciliation and
arbitration.
True, Mr Kerr does pose some
pertinent questions about the role of the
conciliation and arbitration tribunal, but
the inquiry in his first sentence “how
long we would have to put up with
economically illiterate judges deciding big
economic issues in arbitration cases after
argument by economically illiterate
barristers” prepares the way for the last
sentence after three pages of argument
that “the community will probably decide
to keep the lawyers”.
May I look at some of these argu-
ments? Mr Kerr asserts that “lawyers
are used to the legal hurly-burly, the
rough and tumble techniques of the law,
to vigorous, tough cross-examination”,
the inference being that it is only by the
possession of this experience that an
advocate can elicit the truth that will
lead to a just decision and that only the
lawyers are fortunate enough to possess
this experience. Does he not overlook
the fundamental difference between the
advocate in the court of law and the
advocate in an arbitration tribunal,
namely, that the former is concerned to
ascertain the true facts about something
that has occurred and the proper applica-
tion of the existing law to those facts,
whereas the industrial advocate is
striving to change the law, as a basis for
which the ascertainment of opinions is
at least of equal importance to the
ascertainment of facts?
No wonder the economists, whose
principal evidence is of conclusions they
have drawn or consider may be drawn
from facts, do not like to put up with
the vigorous cross-examination of nisi
prius lawyers whose experience lies in
vigorously eliciting facts by proving their
opponent’s witnesses to be “incompetents,
liars and cheats”. If this revulsion to
legal bullying causes economists of stand-
ing to refuse to give evidence, as Dr
Perkins did. then this is not a matter for
smug satisfaction but for a complete
reappraisal of a system whose operation
repels those best able to help it to arrive
at a just decision.
As evidence of the complete rapport
that exists between Bench and Bar on
economic matters. Mr Kerr points to the
silence with which economic arguments
and submissions based on statistical and
other economic material are presented
(sic) by counsel and listened to by the
Bench as opposed to the uproar which
occurs when economists present this
evidence. Charity forbids the mention of
another reason for this silence.
The attributes of our “highly complex
and excessively legalistic set of arbitral
arrangements” are said by Mr Kerr to
render it extremely difficult for the union
leader and the industrial officer and for
the ordinary citizen to understand the
legal intricacies of the system, which give
rise to a great variety of constitutional
and legal questions: implying that only
the lawyer can understand them.
Yet in spite of this so-called legal com-
plexity, by far the greater number of
industrial hearings are conducted before
non-lawyers by non-lawyers. Some
hearings, because of their importance in
the public interest, must be conducted
before a multiple-manned bench but even
some of these benches include a non-
lawyer in their composition.
The secondary, and unrelated, purpose
of Mr Kerr’s article is to draw attention
to the way in which the arbitral tribunal
should distribute the fruits of pro-
ductivity. I do not wish to confuse the
two issues and reserve my comments on
this issue save to say that I thought, with
respect, that the assurance that “the
lawyers are not anxious to thrust their
own economic policies and plans down
the community’s throat” verged on the
impertinent. I also point out that in 1947
the Commonwealth Conciliation and
Arbitration Act, referred to by Mr Kerr,
also provided, in section 43G, only a
limited opportunity for counsel, solicitor
or paid agent to appear before the
(Arbitration) Court and absolutely for-
bade their appearance before a Con-
ciliation Commissioner.
While I do not deny that the academic
training of the lawyer may assist the
processes of arbitration by facilitating the
orderly marshalling of facts and argu-
ments, I do not admit that this ability is
the sole prerogative of the lawyer nor
that the complexities of the economic-
industrial field are so esoteric that only
the lawyers may understand them. More
positively. I feel that the practice by the
lawyer of the talents he has developed in
the rough and tumble techniques of the
law may hinder rather than help the
arbitral processes.
J. GERARD
Beaumaris (Victoria).
AN ABC NON-SINNER
Sir,
-As a very junior member of the ABC’s
Permanent Staff who has had a modest
acquaintance with some aspects of tele-
vision, may I claim space for a word on
those anonymous “ABC SINNERS”
whose inarticulate frustrations have found
refuge in your columns?
I have read the Sinners with mingled
feelings:
Interest—because of my own involve-
ment.
Disgust— at people who attack the organi-
sation which has the misfortune to
employ them, in public, without the
guts to use their own names.
Amusement—at the curiously involved,
self-consciously “clever” style in which
they convey their particular brand of
bitchiness.
However, one appalling fact emerges
from their turgid prose, and that is this:
If they are as muddle-headed and inarti-
culate in their approach to the pro-
grammes they produce as their writing
appears to indicate then there is in-
deed little hope for the quality program-
ming some of us, at any rate, are working
for in the Commission.
GERALD I vONS
Broadcast House,
Melbourne.
THE BATESON STORY
Sir,
I take strong exception to Robert Lon-
ington’s article on the career of Sir Albert
Bateson (Bulletin, May 12) — not be-
cause of the portrayal per se, but because
of the imputation of his being a fictional
character.
In fact, as any observer of the English
Establishment fully realises the said
article actually depicts the life of Sir
Timothy Cargill, whose influence on con-
temporary politics seems to be synony-
mous, mutatis mutandis, with that of
Bateson’s
STEPHEN WEGNER
Wahroonga (NSW).
Sir,
I can assure you that the influence of
Sir Albert Bateson is very strong —he is
indeed an “eminence gris”.
I suggest that it ill-behoves “Cdr. John
Locke-Waters RN Rtd” (Bulletin, May
26) who appears neither in the Navy list
nor the Melbourne telephone directory
to doubt the existence of this distinguished
man.
J. Z. NEWLANDS
Canberra.
ALL THE QUEEN’S MEN
Sir,
Your author of “All the Queen’s Men”
(Bulletin, May 19) failed to do justice
to a worthy subject, and in view of the
proven competence of some of your
regular political correspondents, it was
disappointing to find Their Excellencies
relegated to a gossip column.
It would seem that the Sandgropers


fared worst of all. Firstly, on the reckon-
ing of any student of recent Western
Australian history, Sir Charles Gairdner
has scarcely relied on a “speciality” of
“inspired eccentricity” to maintain his
popularity. It is arrant nonsense in what
masquerades as a serious discussion to
suggest that a predilection for knitting
dominates the public image of a Governor
whose appointment was initially criticised
by many spokesmen of the Labor party
but whose term was subsequently ex-
tended with gratitude by a Labor govern-
ment and applauded by all. How does
Allison Bowerman know that Sir Charles
Gairdner’s methods of attaining popula-
rity “have not been those of Sir Dallas”?
Because Sir Dallas doesn’t knit layettes
for Melbourne babies?
Moreover, Sir Eric Woodward is not
the second but the third Australian-born
Governor. Sir James Mitchell, Lieutenant-
Governor of Western Australia from
1933 to 1948, and Governor from 1948
to 1951, was born at Bunbury, WA.
Much might have been written in a
very serious vein of the Governors’ con-
temporary role, and I hope we shall be
vouchsafed something more on the sub-
ject from The Bulletin —but preferably
from a political commentator, and one
who will promise to do his homework
on the neglected “Western Third”.
PETER J. BOYCE
University of Tasmania.
THE DEVIL’S OWN JOB
Sir,
Bruce Beresford’s interesting, if perhaps
self-centred, article (Bulletin, May 19)
has little to commend it as a constructive
step towards encouraging the Australian
film industry. It is fantastic that a young
man, even with his special talents, should
be able to judge on “maturing talent” in
other directors, and it is not surprising
that he is adding to his unpopularity in
certain circles.
As an intellectual, Mr Beresford is try-
ing to encourage the film industry, by
telling producers to ignore the return they
are entitled to. Any down to earth pro-
ducer must realise that he has to make
money to expand, to improve his films.
Meanwhile he must take very special
notice of the audience sizes and reactions.
The Continental theatres are indeed
spreading sophistication amongst Aus-
tralian audiences, but it is significant that
they are, almost without exception, small
theatres, usually converted theatrettes,
with less than half the normal theatre
capacity. Here in Perth, and I believe I
speak for all Australian capitals bar
Sydney and Melbourne, we have no
regular Continental theatres, and devotees
have to rely upon the annual film festival
for their fare.
I’m afraid Mr Beresford will have to
face the unfortunate fact that a large
section of the community do like the
“Dad and Dave type comedy”. This is
evidenced by the following enjoyed by
many of the Melbourne slapstick shows
such as “Sunny Side Up”, and to a lesser
extent Sydney’s “Bobby Limb Show”.
The producer has to pander to public
taste. I feel sure that the main reason
why much of the material is highly re-
garded by producers is because it is not
only their bread and butter, but their
crust.
I am pleased to read that “so far no
one has called it dull”. Surely if the TCN
Sydney and GTV Melbourne executives,
who must be numbered amongst the
privileged few who have seen this film
thus far, had found it dull they certainly
would not have contracted to screen it.
Nonetheless, in all fairness, I must reserve
my judgment until I actually see it, and
whether we in Perth see “The Devil To
Pay” or not depends, ironically, upon
audience ratings, the very principle Mr
Beresford is attacking.
GAWEN S. RUDDER
Mt Pleasant (WA).
UNITED AUSTRALIA MOVEMENT
Sir,
I note in your issue of The Bulletin
of May 12, 1962, there is an article
under the heading “Committee of 100”
and attributed to Peter Coleman in
Sydney. In the second last paragraph it is
stated that amongst those “interested” in
the United Australia Movement is Mr
Drummond, MP.
I desire to advise you that I received a
letter from this Movement to which I for-
mally replied in ordinary courtesy, while
I made inquiries, as I invariably do, con-
cerning new Movements which approach
me for my support.
I subsequently received a much longer
letter, to which I have not replied. If
this constitutes “interest”, the Movement
is entitled to such comfort as it may
obtain from the fact.
D. H. DRUMMOND
Sydney.
CHILDREN’S BOOKS
Sir,
Nancy Keesing when discussing “Hills
End” by Ivan Southall (Bulletin, June
2) says “adults must not spoil the youngs-
ters’ enjoyment by peering too closely at
improbabilities in the exciting plot, or
by sneering at patches of stereotyped
dialogue—remember it has been written
for boys and girls”. This seems to imply
that specially inferior standards are
allowable in works for children.
Any adults who read books for children
should peer closely and sneer loud and
long at any deviation from the high
standards expected from works for adults.
Excellence is of utmost importance in
books for children, excellence of writing,
story, characters, accuracy, and general
readability. As C. S. Lewis has said, a
good book for children will be as well
worth reading at 50 years as at 10, a
truth which is borne out in such long
lived favorites as “Treasure Island”,
“Little Women”, “Tom Sawyer”, and
“The Magic Pudding”, no less than in
modern works such as “Tangara”,
“Lillipilly Hill”, and “The Rocks of
Honey”.
The best books for children will stand
up to the most searching criticism. Sim-
plicity is the only special ingredient, if
it is required. There is no such thing
as a good book written especially for
boys and girls. Good books are written
for people.
SHEILA APTED
Armidale (NSW).
A STATE-AID ELECTION
Sir,
As a Catholic and an ex “stay-in-and-
fighter”, I commend one point above the
many others made by your Hobart cor-
respondent in a “A ‘State-Aid’ Election”
(Bulletin, June 2), and that point is
the two-facedness of Catholic ALP
politicians and servants, who woo the
Catholic vote and do nothing for their
country or their fellow Catholics that
is nationally important. I consider it is
gross deception.
It is regrettable that R. H. Lacey,
ALP State Secretary, voted in favor of
rescinding previous ALP support for “all
forms of education” and who, as an ALP
Federal Executive member, is one of
those who support the ultra-Left-wing
Victorian ALP executive. This is not
Labor as I knew it once. I was one of
those conservatives whose vote was
always “in the bag” but not any longer.
F. X. FEENEY
Moonah (Tasmania).
LABOR’S ARTFUL DODGER
Sir,
I was somewhat amused to read your
lengthy “profile” of Labor MP Leslie
Haylen (Bulletin, June 2). I do not
know Haylen personally but have read
of his controversial character. Evidently
in the eyes of The Bulletin it is a
heinous crime to move from Right to
Left politically while to move from Left
to Right is to ensure a place as one of
your sainted heroes.
I detect in the article quite a few
noticeable religio-political overtones. In
fact I would suggest that the author’s
sectarian slip is showing. I have noticed
this tendency in other of your articles
which superficially deal with Commun-
ism and yet intrude a heavy smell of
sectarian prejudice. I also noticed that
you mentioned an old friend of mine as
having been “a damaging friend” of
Haylen’s. Why all this double-talk —why
not have the moral —and legal—courage
to come out into the open and say what
you mean? If the rest of your facts and
deductions are as correct as this one
small reference I suggest that your
“profile” has been gravely distorted. Why
you can’t even spell Dalziel right!
T. G. BARRETT
Sydney.


The Wild
Cat Pages and
THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
THE TREASURY REPORT
AN UNINSPIRING DOCUMENT
“Tnsofar as these annual surveys deal
with matters of this kind they are
put forward, not as prescriptions of what
should or should not be done, but rather
as contributions to debate,” says the
introduction to the Federal Treasury’s
latest survey of the Australian economy.
This may be so, but one can hardly
help expecting to find in it some evid-
ence of positive thinking and guidance.
And in this sense “The Australian
Economy, 1962” is a disappointingly
empty, if pleasantly worded, document.
Instead of offering some clues as to
what the Government intends to do to
meet the challenge of a persistently slug-
gish economy and a hesitant share-
market —and also of the grave readjust-
ment problems posed by Britain’s im-
minent entry into the European Economic
Community—we are presented with yet
another expert essay justifying Canberra’s
sledge-hammer boom-busting late in
1960.
It is tragic that so much effort is still
being wasted on justifying the inevitable
credit squeeze, while at the same time
many of its hard-won fruits are about
to be sacrificed for political expediency.
The survey once more offers a lengthy
discourse on the nature, dangers and
breaking of the late boom. It implies
that economic policies in such countries
as say, France and Japan are not really
applicable to Australia. But there is no
indication of what the Government pro-
poses to do to stimulate capital invest-
ment in the basic industries.
True enough a large section is devoted
to listing and praising the Government’s
measures to reactivate the economy. It
is said that “allowing for seasonal influ-
ences, the statistics do not suggest that
recovery lost ground at the turn of the
year”. But, unfortunately, these same
statistics do not suggest that it has really
gained any ground either.
The Treasury points out that “mone-
tary conditions have continued to be
highly liquid from the standpoint of
both the public and the financial insti-
tutions”. But this again indicates that
large funds available for investment are
not being profitably employed.
HThere is no doubt that overseas trade
presents by far the brightest part of
the overall economic picture. In the
ten months to April, 1962, exports
exceeded imports by £172m., com-
pared with an imports surplus of £l94m.
in the comparable period of 1960-61.
Exports for the full financial year 1961-
62 are now confidently expected to reach
£ 1050 m., while imports are not ex-
pected to be much higher than £9oom.
The £7Bm. drawing from the
International Monetary Fund made in
April, 1961, has been repayed. At the
end of April, 1962, Australia’s interna-
tional reserves stood at £ssom.
The survey notes that “there appears to
have been a considerable amount of
capital inflow through the year although,
in the early months, it was masked in the
statistics by repayment of import credits
and the fact that large sales of wheat had
been made on credit terms”.
There is no doubt that the Govern-
ment was deeply hurt by the Opposition’s
charges that it had deliberately caused
unemployment to stem the flood of
imports by a general decline in purchas-
ing power alter the import restrictions
were lifted in February, 1960. Although
it is certainly open to argument whether
it would not have been better to lift
import restrictions by stages instead of in
one quick sweep, the Opposition’s pre-
election charges were nonsense.
Tt is acknowledged that “there is at
* present considerable unused plant
capacity, unemployment is still above
normal and more labor is coming for-
ward”. One must remember also that
we are now entering the period when
the high birthrate of the immediate post-
war years is beginning to be felt in the
swelling numbers of young people leav-
ing school and seeking employment.
This means that more stable jobs must
be found in the near future.
The survey points out that “prices and
costs, the basic factor in our trading
strength, should be kept stable”. It also
notes that “between population growth
and full employment, there is not neces-
sarily any conflict”. However, there is
no definite indication as to what the Gov-
ernment proposes to do to encourage the
flow of investment capital into the basic
industries, into those sectors of the
economy which are not immediately
jeopardised by the European Common
Market developments. And, except for
a statement that the Government is aware
of the possibility of recurring boom
pressures, there is precious little to dispel
the gnawing suspicion that a new boom
may develop in the inflation-prone sectors
because of the Government’s lack of posi-
tive economic policy.
EUGENE BAJKOWSKI
INDEX
The Treasury Report .. .... 32
Campbell’s—Pipers ’An All .... 33
News Pointers, Oil .... .... 34
Austria and EEC .... .... 35
Productivity ... .... ... 35
The Chairman Says .... .... 38
Architecture .... .... .... 39
Golden Mile 5 ’ for Melbourne 40
Croesus .... .... 41
Company Reviews
Gordon and Gotch .... .... 42
George Hudson Holdings Ltd 44
Company Notes .... .... 4^
Wdd Cat Brevities .... 43
Sharemarkef Summary and
Statistics 50, 51
Speculator’s Diary .... ... 52
One to Buy 52
Man on the Land:
Sugarcane, Western Australia,
Sheep Show, Shearing, Fencing
.... 54


O
1
- :
//
"%¥-■
%
, ? mfW?
»V> i? ■ '
Step out
confidently
on that
business
trip
with the C'B'A’s
travel services behind you
Experienced officers will plan and provide complete
itineraries. They’ll arrange all travel and
accommodation bookings, passports, taxation
clearances and other necessary documents. C.B.A.
Travellers’ Cheques are accepted everywhere.
Letters of credit are available, or funds can be
forwarded to our Offices or Agents throughout the
world. Our Trade Introduction Service will put you
in touch with the overseas markets which apply
directly to your business. Contact your nearest
C.B.A. Manager for full details.
y^-OF.
V R
m
THE COMMERCIAL BANK
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
OVER 800 OFFICES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND & LONDON
VICTORIA
CAMPBELLS-PIPERS AN' ALL
By J. C. HORSFALL
npHE cause of industry decentralisation
has had a much needed shot in the
arm by the establishment of Campbells
Soups at Shepparton in the heart of Vic-
toria’s fertile Goulburn Valley. The all-
round value of the new enterprise was
recognised at the opening last week.
When, for Common Market reasons, the
Prime Minister could not turn up to
fulfil his engagement to open the £l.3m.
factory, the Minister for Trade, Mr J.
McEwen, who is MHR for the area,
only too willingly stepped into his shoes
and the company ran a special train from
Melbourne 115 miles away to bring other
high Victorian dignitaries to hear him do
it. Pipers both at Spencer Street and the
company's siding attested that the Camp-
bells have arrived.
Naturally Victoria and Shepparton are
jubilant that Campbells have settled here.
It has always been Campbells’ policy to
put its factories in country areas near
available supplies of the ingredients used
in its products, though the actual choice
of the Goulburn Valley was only made
after intense investigation of many alter-
native areas both in Victoria and in other
States. In going to the home of the Vic-
toria canning industry and. settling only,
a few miles from the SPC which is look-
ing rather anxiously at the moment at
Common Market threat to its valuable
UK market, Campbells are looked on as
providing invaluable reinforcements
should fruit canning soon be fighting a
rearguard action.
This new development in the Goulburn
Valley is not the first time Campbells
have assisted us for, as the President of
the US parent company pointed out at
the opening, the overseas units of the
group have long been big buyers of Aus-
tralian agricultural products. Last year
they bought about £24-m. worth.
Now besides giving a lever to employ-
ment in one of our most promising
country areas and pouring in some £2
million valuable capital from overseas,
they promise to revolutionise agricultural
methods there by giving us the benefit of
their own highly efficient research and
introducing a number of new vegetable
products.
Though this world-wide organisation
has been a long time coming to Australia
since its beginning in the States some 93
years ago it has had its eye on us for
some years and early in 1960 acquired
the food division of Kia Ora Industries
as a first step to getting into the canned
food market here. It is now making Kia
Ora products in parallel with Campbells
at Shepparton but still selling them as an
independent marketing and advertising
operation. As Kia Ora has about 22 per
cent, of the £5 million Australian canned
soups market, the company has a more
than useful toe-hold here from which to
capture an appreciably larger share for
the Kia Ora and Campbells’ brands.
Clearly a big battle lies ahead between
Campbells and Heinz, its most formidable
rival in the canned soups market here,
and a mopping up operation of some of
the smaller companies could well be in
prospect. There are two distinct aspects
of this impending battle. One is the
task of creating an all-year-round image
of canned soup, in other words to get
across to the Australian housewife the
idea that canned soup knows no seasons,
and by this and other means to expand
the market.


NEWS POINTERS
AUSTRALIA
® A ustralian merchandise exports in the ten months to the end of
April, 1962, totalled £881,891,000 (up £143,806,000) and are
expected to exceed £ 1000 m. in the full year. Imports in the same period
decreased from £931,864,000 to £710,550,000, leaving a merchandise
exports surplus of £171,341,000 compared with an imports surplus of
£193,779,000 in the previous corresponding period.
® The Ford Motor Co. of Australia has stood down 600 men at its
Broadmeadows plant because of a tally clerks’ strike in Melbourne and
Sydney. More dismissals are expected.
• Share capital raised by listed Australian companies in the nine months
to March 31, 1962, amounted to £60.7m., compared with £73.2m. in
the same period of 1960-61. Issues of debentures, registered notes and
deposits made by listed companies in the ten months brought in £ 60.5 m.
(£ 113.8 m. in 1960-61).
• A trade mission from the United Arab Republic, headed by Mr Ahmed
Nazmy Abdel Hamid, sub-Governor of the Central Bank of Egypt hopes
to increase Egyptian sales of raw cotton, cotton yarn, textiles, rock
phosphates, petroleum, handicrafts and industry products to Australia. In
return, Egypt expects to buy more Australian wool, wheat, frozen meat,
agricultural machinery and equipment for secondary industries.
• Average daily coal production in NSW in the first 20 weeks of 1962
rose to 81,000 tons (up 1000 tons). Disposals of coal have increased
considerably. Coal exports to Japan are rising. Coal stocks have decreased
by 564,810 tons in the 20 weeks to May 19, 1962 (down 196,800 tons in
1961).
• Crane and lifting equipment manufacturers have formed a new division
of the NSW Chamber of Manufacturers.
® The Secretary of the Wheatgrowers’ Federation, Mr Stott, said in
Adelaide that the visit by a trade delegation from Peking may result in
increased sales of Australian wheat to Communist China.
® The recent 12s. 6d. a cwt. rise in the price of Australian butter on the
London market is expected to increase the overall return to Australian
dairy farmers by about £500,000, if the present price holds for the rest
of the season.
® Combined membership of the seven clubs and associations constituting
the Australian Automobile Association reached 1,214,534 at March 31,
1962.
OVERSEAS
® Japanese Prime Minister, Mr H. Ikeda, said that Japan will continue
to accelerate its trade with Peking “even if the United States
raised objections.” Although still representing only 3.2 p.c. of her total
external trade, Japan’s transactions with the USSR and other Communist
countries rose by 61 p.c. to £Al94m. in 1961. Japan has a formal trade
treaty with the USSR.
® Industrialisation Bureau of the Indonesian Department of Basic
Industries and Mines announced that 17 new Government industrial projects
will be launched shortly. This includes three steelworks, an aluminium
refinery, soda and soda-ash plant, four paper mills, two cement factories,
a glass works and three fertiliser plants. Eleven contracts totalling £A76m.
have been signed with suppliers and contractors in the US, the USSR,
Japan, Poland, West Germany and Czechoslovakia.
® The South African Minister for Economic Affairs has announced plans
for a new R9m. synthetic rubber plant at Sasolburg, capable of supplying
the Republic’s entire requirements. Initially only styrine-butadiene synthetic
rubber will be produced. The plant will be built by the Synthetic Rubber
Development Corporation, formed by The Goodyear Tyre and Rubber Co.
(SA) (Pty) Ltd and three other tyre and rubber companies operating in
South Africa. ‘ =
OIL
MOONIE'S ANTI-CLIMAX
mPhe news of drilling from Moonie has
been of a negative quality as both
the Middle Creek and Wandoan wells
have been drilling ahead through target
zones without tangible result. This has
naturally come as an anti-climax after
successes recorded in the Cabawin and
the three Moonie wells themselves,
though it has to be remembered that both
Middle Creek and Wandoan (in particu-
lar since it is 100 miles from Moonie,
whereas Wandoan is only six) are essen-
tially wildcat holes.
However, oil search followers have had
their appetites whetted so avidly by
Moonie successes, it is understandable
that, hotfoot after more share market
killings, they are not enamoured by the
latest fare from AOG’s leases, nor any
other in Australia at the moment.
Perhaps the worst sufferer has been
the AAO group, which, for all its inten-
sive drilling programme, has nothing of
interest to offer at the moment, having
just concluded dry holes at Westgrove
(No. 2) and Rosewood, north of Roma.
Oil Development’s two current wells at
Mt. Salt (SA) and Anglesea (Victoria)
were down to 4216 ft and 2296 ft respec-
tively last week-end, without having
encountered anything of note. Both are
drilling ahead.
Hawkstone Oil is also preparing to
drill in the Kimberleys and has con-
tracted with a French company to do
contract drilling in its area with an Emsco
rig. A new company, Fitzroy Oil, has
been formed by Hawkstone, inter alia to
carry out these operations.
North Star Oil Corporation has applied
for territory in the Eucla Basin (WA).
There have been only two holes (dry)
drilled in this basin from which Exoil
pulled out some time ago. North Star
has also applied for extensive areas in
the Murray River Basin.
Exoil itself has joined with AOG on
a 50-50 basis to prospect in the latter’s
area in the Kurrajong district, in the
Sydney Basin. This is a comparatively
small area of 197 square miles.
The prospectus of the newly formed
Amalgamated Petroleum NL shows that
H. C. Sleigh, through Sleigh Exploration,
is to take a large parcel of shares, as is
another AAO member, Associated
Freney. The company has extensive per-
mit areas in Queensland, the NT and
NSW covering in all 18i million acres,
and will use Mines Administration, the
operating company of AAO, among its
technical consultants.
Mid Eastern Oil is to extend its search
interest to a total area of 92,000 square
miles by the acquisition of a further
25,000 square miles in the Carpentaria
Basin of northern Queensland.


EUROPE
AUSTRIA AND THE COMMON MARKET
by DR P. R. FITZ
Austrian Trade Delegate in Australia
Qince Great Britain made her applica-
tion to join the Common Market,
the complex problems of this economic
and political association have become a
topic in the Australian business com-
munity. How do the approximately
<£l7o million of exports which will be
affected compare with the problems the
Austrian economy is facing?
In accordance with Austria’s State
Treaty of May, 1955, the Austrian Con-
stitution contains a solemn pledge of per-
manent neutrality. This was the basic
reason Austria did not join the Common
Market which in 1957 (Treaty of Rome)
foresaw, apart from an almost complete
economic union, the setting up of a
joint commission with rights of its own
for many political aspects. Any infringe-
ment of sovereignty rights by a super-
national body outside the United Nations
could lead under unforeseeable circum-
stances to measures which could be in
opposition to Austria’s neutral status and
policy.
Under the leadership of Great Britain,
Austria joined with six other nations
(Great Britain, Sweden, Norway, Swit-
zerland, Denmark and Portugal) to form
the European Free Trade Area (Treaty
of Stockholm 1959). The EFTA was just
a free trade area with no political strings
attached.
In the opinion of Austria the main pur-
pose of the EFTA was to be a strong bar-
gaining block to negotiate with the Com-
mon Market any form of association to
avoid an economic split of the Western
European countries.
The application of Great Britain, fol-
lowed by those of Denmark and Nor-
way, to joint the Common Market as full
members meant a severe weakening of
Austria’s bargaining powers. It now ap-
pears that Austria, together with the
two other neutral countries of the EFTA
(Switzerland and Sweden) has to nego-
tiate with the Common Market without
endangering her political neutrality.
When applying for full membership
Great Britain promised to safeguard not
only her long-established Commonwealth
relations, but also the interests of her
EFTA partners. Every Australian knows
that the fight for Commonwealth pref-
erence will meet strong opposition from
the Common Market countries, and Great
Britain may be forced to sacrifice most
of her special arrangements.
It is clear to every Austrian that Great
Britain is even less inclined to sacrifice
some of her vital interests just to safe-
guard the interests of one of her smaller
EFTA partners.
For Australia there are exports of
some £l7O million, or 15 p.c. of her
annual total exports at stake. For Aust-
ria the position is far more vital.
Tn 1961 Austria’s exports to the Com-
mon Market countries amounted to
49.1 p.c. of her total exports as against
only 15.6 p.c. to the EFTA partners.
Austria’s largest two customers, Western
Germany with 27.6 p.c. and Italy with
13.8 p.c. are EEC members. The less
affected import situation shows an even
higher percentage for the Common
Market countries. It must be considered
that the figures for 1961 were already
affected by a 30 p.c. reduction in duties
between member countries and the first
increases in duties for non-members.
A market such as Western Germany,
which has the advantages of a very high
purchasing power and not only being a
neighbor but also trading in the same
language, cannot be replaced. This also
applies to Italy, which is a natural cus-
tomer for some of Austria’s main export
goods: timber, steel, livestock and elec-
trical power. It is obvious that none of
these exports, for example, could be
diverted to Australia.
Under these circumstances, it is easy
to understand why Austria, together with
Sweden and Switzerland has applied for
association with the Common Market
as far as her neutral status will permit.
As the negotiations have not yet even
started, it is impossible to judge how
and when this ultimate goal of Austria’s
present economic policy will be reached.
In spite of the economic problems
in Europe, Austria has not neglected
to strengthen her trade ties with over-
seas markets. Austrian Foreign Trade
Offices are now established in 33 coun-
tries outside Europe, in addition to 29
contact offices covering all parts of the
world. In 1962 Austria will participate
in 15 international trade fairs outside
Europe, using these fairs as showcases
for Austrian industry in general, and to
foster the trade links with countries
where Austrian goods have not yet
achieved the publicity which they have
for example in the USA and Australia.
Austrian industry has undertaken to
divert some of its export capacity from
traditional customers in Europe and con-
centrate on new connections overseas.
This quite frequently means lower profits,
because Austria is a landlocked country
and all goods shipped from there have
to bear the additional cost of transpor-
tation to the nearest port. Language
problems have also had to be overcome.
This extensive drive to avoid any ex-
cessive dependency on European markets
has already proved successful in many
countries. In Australia already one
of Austria’s largest overseas customers
—goods worth £3.78 million were sold
in 1961, an increase of 6 p.c. over the
1960 figure in spite of the adverse econ-
omic situation in Australia last year. It
is noteworthy that this increase was not
achieved in well-established lines, but
mainly in articles especially capital
goods new to the Australian market.
Although optimistic about the out-
come of the negotiations with the Com-
mon Market countries, Austria is never-
theless safeguarding her economic growth
by all means available to her skilled and
hard-working people.
PRODUCTIVITY
SPLENDID OPPORTUNITY MISSED
npHE 1962 meeting of the Australian
Productivity Council’s NSW Division
has come and gone with hardly a ripple
of comment among those vitally in-
terested in the subject. Many are
saddened that this splendid opportunity
has slipped by without industry having
received some significant directional
signposts.
It is but one of many recent occasions
when Australian industry and manage-
ment have lost benefits which should
have been possible from an accumulation
of considered thought. This is not un-
common today. Many businessmen, from
personal experience of attending con-
ventions, seminars and luncheons, will
acknowledge that all they have gained
from them is fellowship.
Many may well ask this question: How
long must we be patient, using this
method of receiving information, to learn
about the present so that we can plan
better for the future?
Two aspects may assist in this regard.
Today, many guest speakers are invited
to speak too often and with in-
sufficient time to do justice to their
subject.
Secondly, experience has shown that
for a conference or seminar theme, a
deeper analysis is possible when con-
sidering only a facet of the problem.
More guest speakers should be prepared
to print their papers in full after deliver-
ing them. Then the effort of producing
them would not be lost to those who
have the business acumen, ambition and
tenacity to analyse them.
B. H. C.


EXTRACTS FROM THE
ANNUAL REPORT
30th APRIL, 1962
THE DELFIN Y v
AUSTRALIAN FUND
INCORPORATED
5049/DPS
Directors
JOHN H. D. MARKS (Chairman)
Chairman and Managing Director, Develop-
ment Finance Corporation Limited.
LESLIE JAMES THOMPSON
(Deputy Chairman)
Chairman, Ampol Petroleum Limited,
Chairman, A.P.A. Holdings Limited.
ADRIAN GEORGE ARMYTAGE
Managing Director, Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited).
JOHN WRIGHT BLAIKLOCK
Chairman, P.G.H. Industries Limited.
ERNEST FARRAR
General Manager, The Commercial Banking
Company of Sydney Limited.
THOMAS PERCY KEENE
Chief Security Analyst, Development
Finance Corporation Limited.
RICHARD GEORGE McCROSSIN
Actuary to Development Finance Corpor
ation Limited.
Secretary
EDWARD ALLAN PERRY, F.C.A.
Directors’ Report to Shareholders
To Our Shareholders:
Your Directors have pleasure in sub-
mitting their Annual Report to share-
holders on the activities of the Fund
for the year ended 30th April, 1962.
It is interesting to observe the satis-
factory performance of the Fund which
is clearly illustrated by the accompany-
ing graph by comparing the strength of
the issue price per share against that
of the Sydney Stock Exchange All
Ordinary Index for the periods covered
by our four half-yearly Reports issued
to date.
Report as at: 31.10.60 30.4.61 31.10.61 30.4.62
Delfin
Issue Price: 4/6d. 4/7d. 4/Bd. 5/-d.
(Excluding
Service Pee)
All Ordinary
Index 310.03 299.06 297.99 304.45
This emphasises the fact that despite
a downturn in the Sydney Stock
Exchange All Ordinary Index from the
31st October, 1960, our issue price
(which is governed by the margin
between our total cost price compared
with total market price) has actually
increased from 4/6d. per share to 5/-d.
per share.
The Fund during the year partici-
pated in 21 cash issues and 9 bonus
issues from 29 Companies and 5 Com-
panies in the portfolio received suc-
cessful takeover offers which were
beneficial to the Fund.
Financial Statements:
The audited accounts submitted with
this Report cover activities of the
Fund for the year ended 30th April,
1962. Net assets as at the latter
date amounted to £2,425,570 and total
revenue receivable during the period
amounted to £96,509 from which have
been deducted expenses, £14,219, leav-
ing £82,290. From this amount £2,000
has been provided for income tax and
£8,669 has been transferred to Invest-
ment Fluctuation Reserve, leaving a
net investment income available for
distribution of £71,621.
An interim dividend at the rate of
7/6d. per 100 shares was paid on the
7th December, 1961, and your Directors
now recommend a final dividend of
7/6d. per 100 shares making 15/-d. per
100 shares for the year under review. In
the opinion of the Directors, the dis-
closed results have not been affected
by items of an abnormal nature.
Proposed Final Dividend:
The recommended final dividend of
7/6d. per 100 shares, if confirmed by
shareholders, will be due and payable
on the 19th June, 1862, to shareholders
whose names appeared on the register
at the close of business on the 22nd
May, 1962.
Portfolio:
During the year under review, your
Investment Advisors Development
Finance Corporation Limited has
been closely supervising the invest-
ment portfolio of the Fund. Resulting
from their recommendations, a number
of new Companies have been added to
the portfolio whilst investment in
others has been varied in accordance
with the Fund’s policy to meet chang-
ing conditions. As a result of these
changes, a further transfer to Invest-
ment Fluctuation Reserve of £8,669
was made during the financial year
making the balance of this account
£20,515 at 30th April, 1962.
The Fund’s portfolio now embraces
174 Companies and, despite a difficult
year for many of these Companies in
the portfolio, only one Company failed
during the Fund’s financial year to
pay a dividend and this Company
represented only a I of 1% of the total
value of the portfolio.
The Fund’s liquid position at 30th
April, 1962, was sound and after allow-
ing for the payment of the final
dividend for the year under review,
there was approximately £120,000 avail-
able to acquire further investments as
favourable buying opportunities occur.
The Directors are of the opinion that
the Fund’s performance has been satis-
factory and look forward to the con-
tinued growth of The Deffin Fund in
association with the general expansion
of the Australian economy.
Yours sincerely,
(JOHN H. MARKS)
CHAIRMAN OF DIRECTORS.
25th May, 1962.
PERFORMANCE OF THE FUND
The Directors are again pleased to
report a satisfactory performance of
The Delfin Fund Issue Price compared
with the Sydney Stock Exchange Index
for All Ordinary Shares. This is best
illustrated by the graph below, which
shows that in the period from the com-
mencement of the Fund in July, 1960,
to 30th April, 1962, the Fund’s issue
price appreciated 4.8%, whilst, in
the same period, the Sydney Stock
Exchange All Ordinary Index had
depreciated by 9.9%.
INVESTMENT PLANS AVAILABLE TO SHAREHOLDERS
pt T a I ™ : CONTINUOUS INVESTMENT
PL_..N enables {shareholders to make
periodic investments from their savings
and increase their holding in The
Delfin Australian Fund.
THE DIVIDEND RE-INVESTMENT
PLAN _ enables Shareholders to
authorise automatic re-investment of
then’ dividend for acquiring additional
shares in the Fund.
The Fund’s Managers have full details of these facilities.


INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO
(BASED ON MARKET VALUES AS AT 30th APRIL, 1962)
THE
AUSTRALIAN FUND
INCORPORATED
SERVICES (including Builders, Con- Market Total
tractors, Transport, etc.) Value Value
£119,279 5.00% £ %
Ampol Petroleum Limited .. .. 22,010 .92
Brambles Industries Limited .. 21,431 .90
Burns, Philp & Company Limited 23,572 .98
Consolidated Press Holdings
Limited 6,660 .28
H. C. Sleigh Limited 15,460 .65
Howard Smith Limited .. .. 3,863 .16
John Fairfax Limited 3,990 .17
Mayne Nickless Limited .. .. 9,116 .38
Motels of Australia Limited .. 4,200 .18
Rudders Limited 5,250 .22
Thiess Holdings Limited .. .. 3,727 .16
MACHINERY, EQUIPMENT AND
ENGINEERING
£165,996 6.95%
Amalgamated Wireless
(Australasia) Limited .. .. 18,155 .76
Clyde Industries Limited .. .. 15,478 .65
Electrical Equipment of
Australia Limited 11,083 .46
Email Limited 13,160 .56
Gerrard Company of
Australasia Limited .. .. 7,260 .30
H. H. Webb & Company Limited 11,813 .49
Horwood Bagshaw Limited .. 3,330 .14
International Combustion
Australia Limited 30,625 1.28
M. B. John & Hattersley Limited 8,190 .34
McPhersons Limited 29,121 1.22
O’Donnell Griffin Industries
Limited 4,676 .20
Thompsons (Castlemaine)
Limited 4,800 .20
Waugh & Josephson Holdings
Limited 4,180 .18
William Adams & Company
Limited 4,125 .17
FOOD, DRINK, TOBACCO, etc.
£282,043 11.81%
British Tobacco Company
(Australia) Limited 15,383 .64
Colonial Sugar Refining Company
Limited 26,252 1.10
Davis Gelatine Consolidated
Limited 12,600 .53
Drug Houses of Australia
Limited 22,100 .93
Fairymead Sugar Company Limited 5,900 .25
F. J. Walker Limited 7,650 .32
Henry Jones Co-operative
Limited 39,939 1.67
Huttons Limited 9,467 .40
Life Savers (Australia) Limited 63,000 2.63
Macßobertson (Australia) Limited 7,020 .29
Marrickville Holdings Limited .. 23,240 .97
Mayfair Hams Limited .. 12,813 .54
Millaquin Sugar Company
Limited 3,273 .14
Pioneer Sugar Mills Limited .. 15,000 .63
Provincial Traders (Holdings)
Limited 3,100 .13
Rosella Preserving &
Manufacturing Co. Ltd 5,236 .22
Rothmans of Pall Mall
(Australia) Limited 10,070 .42
PRIMARY INDUSTRIES
£28,237 1.18%
Bali Plantations Limited .. .. 13,563 .57
Goldsbrough Mort &
Company Limited 14,674 .61
IRON AND STEEL
£147,442 6.17%
The Broken Hill Pty.
Company Limited 83,144 3.48
J. Murray-More Holdings Limited 14,869 .62
Martin Bright Steels Limited .. 23,960 1.00
William Atkins Holdings Limited 25,469 1.07
BASIC MATERIALS (including Market Total
Chemicals, Containers, etc.) Value Value
£374,529 15.69% £ %
Amalgamated Chemicals Limited 12,535 .52
Associated Pulp & Paper Mills
Limited 15,641 .66
Australian Consolidated
Industries Limited 69,430 2.91
Bitumen & Oil Refineries
(Australia) Limited 19,980 .84
B. J. Ball Limited 3,705 .16
Brolite Industries Limited 3,500 .15
Chemical Materials Limited .. 4,438 .19
Commonwealth Industrial Gases
Limited 39,750 1.66
Containers Limited 9,788 .41
Davison Paints Limited .. .. 5,550 .23
Dodge Consolidated Industries
Limited .. .. 4,063 .17
Dunlop Rubber Australia Limited 25,359 1.06
Fibre Containers Limited .. 3,800 .16
F. T. Wimble & Company Limited 20,145 .84
F. W. Williams Holdings
Limited 70,262 2.94
G. N. Raymond Limited .. .. 3,770 .16
Imperial Chemical Industries of
Aust. & N.Z. Ltd 40,535 1.70
J. Bayley & Sons Limited .. .. 9,100 .38
Olympic Consolidated
Industries Limited 5,085 .21
Union Carbide Australia Limited 8,093 .34
TRADE £248,781 10.42%
A. J. Chown Holdings Limited 10,530 .44
David Jones Limited 17,219 .72
Dickson Primer (Consolidated)
Limited 35,000 1.46
Drylec Limited 8,250 .35
Eric Anderson (Consolidated)
Limited 16,250 .68
George G. Clarke Limited .. 13,333 .56
G. J. Coles & Company Limited 32,863 1.38
Gollins Holdings Limited .. .. 6,667 .28
Moran & Cato (Australia)
Limited 9,860 .41
Myer Emporium Limited .. 20,449 .86
Nock & Kirby Limited 7,285 .31
Steamship Trading Company
Limited 5,816 .24
Swift & Company Limited .. 6,000 .25
Woolworths Limited 22,083 .92
W. R. Carpenter Holdings
Limited 37,176 1.56
BUILDING MATERIALS
£284,400 11.91%
Albion Quarries Limited .. .. 3,263 .14
Appleton Industries Limited .. 20,160 .84
A.R.C. Industries Limited .. 12,495 .52
Australian Cement Limited .. 13,413 .56
Blue Metal Industries Limited 11,759 .49
Brickworks Limited 6,518 .27
Concrete Industries (Australia)
Limited 11,821 .50
Cyclone Company of Australia
Limited 7,354 ,31
Fred Clark Holdings Limited .. 3,250 .14
Frederick Ash Limited .. 8,400 .35
Humes Limited 3,420 .14
John Mcllwraith Industries
Limited 14,764 .62
Kandos Cement Company Limited 21,270 ,89
Newbold General Refractories
Limited 17,256 .72
P.G.H. Industries Limited .. 36,683 1.54
Pioneer Concrete Services
Limited .. .. 31,406 1.32
Ready Mixed Concrete Limited 36,550 1.53
Rocla Industries Limited .. .. 24,618 1.03
MINING AND NON-FERROUS Market Total
METALS Value Value
£80,032 3.35% £ %
Broken Hill t South Limited .. 7,110 .30
Consolidated Metal Products
Limited 6,150 .26
E.Z. industries Limited .. 6,958 .29
Mount Isa Mines Limited .. .. 47,680 1.99
North Broken Hill Limited .. 12,134 .51
AUTOMOTIVE £58,727 2.46%
G.U.D. Holdings Limited .. .. 14,463 .61
Harden & Johnston Limited .. 3,600 .15
National Consolidated Limited .. 26,433 1.10
Repco Limited 14.231 .60
HOUSEHOLD GOODS AND
EQUIPMENT £27,543 1.16%
Jeffries Industries Limited .. 5,670 .24
Kelvinator Australia Limited .. 6,840 .29
Minster Limited 9,360 .39
Optical Industries Limited .. 5,673 .24
TEXTILES AND CLOTHING
£38,988 1.63%
Berlei United Limited .. .. 8,400 .35
Bonds Industries Limited .. .. 10,230 .43
Bradford Cotton Mills Limited 10,575 .44
Felt & Textiles of Australia
Limited 6,670 .28
Yarra Falls Limited 3,113 .13
FINANCE £197,582 8.27%
Alliance Holdings Limited .. .. 6,223 .26
Australian Guarantee Corporation
Limited 25,235 1.06
Bank of Adelaide 5,342 .22
Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited 20,824 .87
Commercial Bank of Australia
Limited 6,355 .27
Development Finance
Corporation Limited .. .. 3,738 .16
I.A.C. Holdings Limited .. .. 22,492 .94
Lend Lease Corporation Limited 15,938 .67
Mercantile Mutual Insurance
Company Limited 5,635 .23
Mutual Acceptance Company
Limited 3,813 .16
Mutual Life & Citizens’
Assurance Co. Limited .. .. 64,000 2.68
Notional Bank of Australasia
Limited 14,925 .62
Overseas Corporation (Australia)
Ltd 3,062 .13
MISCELLANEOUS £74,113 3.10%
Sundry Companies 74,113 3.10
FIXED INTEREST
SECURITIES £lOO,OOO 4.20%
Company Debentures and
Unsecured Notes 100,000 4.20
MARKET VALUE OF INVESTMENTS £2,227,692 93.30
CASH AT BANKERS AND AT CALL 160,002 6.70
£2.387,694 100.00
BROKERAGE AND STAMP DUTY .. 45,547
REPLACEMENT VALUE GF
INVESTMENTS £2,433,241


THE CHAIRMAN SAYS
SUPERANNUATION IS A
FUNDAMENTAL PART OF
MANAGEMENT POLICY
By JOHN A. L. GUNN
Chairman, Australian Fixed Trusts Ltd
Otaff superannuation plans are under-
going a noticeable change. Manage-
ments are swinging away from the old
insurance-office endowment policies to-
wards systems which combine the benefits
of life cover with direct Stock Exchange
investment.
This trend is a logical development of
the whole concept of employee super-
annuation. At one time provision of
superannuation was a novel manage-
ment policy—paternalistic, humanitarian,
or long-sighted, depending on the mental
attitude of the directors. Later it lost
its novelty as managements began to see
it as a desirable inducement to recruit-
ment in a period of acute labor short-
age. It has now passed that phase, too,
and has entered what we might call a
permanent state, in which it is becoming
a fundamental part of management
policy.
In Australia, as in many other reason-
ably advanced countries, both capitalist
and socialist government systems have
accepted the principle of social security
for all people. Full employment has pro-
gressed from being a labor catch-cry
to being an economic necessity to what-
ever form of government is in power.
Help for Worker
Governments of both sides also have
tacitly agreed that the worker must be
helped to save towards his own security.
With comparatively minor differences
they have agreed on the provision of
such things as free medical and hospital
treatment, invalid and age pensions. The
tax system provides these entitlements,
but the entitlements alone are not enough
for a great majority of the working
population. So we see governments
encouraging contributory systems to pro-
vide additional entitlements through such
agencies as hospital and medical benefit
funds, and building societies.
Employers have realised that they, too,
must respond to the rising demand by
workers for a higher degree of social
security than the taxation system at
present can provide. This has ranged
from financing yearly train tickets and
deducting from wages, at the employees’
request, money for medical and benefit
fund payments, for holiday savings, and
for national saving certificates, to the
setting up of superannuation schemes.
More than goodwill
These services achieve more than
employee goodwill. An employee who is
worried about how to pay his doctor’s
bill or how he and his wife will live when
he has to retire, is not able to do his
best work. Subject to normal personnel
management, the contented worker will
give the best productive effort. He is
less likely to want to change jobs than
the worried, unhappy worker, and conse-
quently less likely to cause his employer
the loss of time and money which went
into his training.
A properly managed superannuation
plan has thus become almost an essential
part of good employee relations policies.
And the financial burden need not rest
solely on the employer. Many employees
are happy with a contributory system, in
which both employer and employee con-
tribute to the fund.
There are three methods of effecting
a superannuation plan. Under all three
plans the employer receives (for income
tax purposes) a deduction of the contri-
butions made by him in respect of each
bona fide employee up to £2OO per
annum or 5 per cent, of the employee’s
remuneration, whichever is the greater
sum. The employee is entitled to a con-
cessional deduction of his contribution
up to £4OO per annum.
The life - office superannuation plan
requires regular premium payments. In
return, the life office agrees to pay a
stated sum on retirement or earlier death,
together with bonuses based on the
profits of the life office. This system
has the very great advantage of pro-
viding a substantial benefit for the family
of the employee in the event of his death
before reaching retiring age.
Under the second plan, trustees invest
all receipts of the fund in shares and
government securities. Unit trusts pro-
vide a highly satisfactory medium for
investment by superannuation funds. The
wide spread of investment in some 200
companies; the relatively high yield; the
capital gains over a period; the simplicity
of bookkeeping, all tend to make this
method of investment highly attractive.
It has the disadvantage that in the early
stages of membership of the fund the
employee’s family receives insufficient
benefit in the event of his early death.
Benefits combined
The third and latest system, pioneered
by Australian Fixed Trusts Ltd, com-
bines the benefits of both the earlier
systems. Here the unit fund form of
investment is used combined with an
optional insurance cover against death.
This cover begins with a sum up to the
expected amount which would be payable
on retirement, and diminishes year by
year as the investment fund builds up.
The premiums payable for this class of
annual insurance are remarkably low.
The effect of this combination of direct
investment and life assurances is that an
employee may be sure that, in the event
of his death before he reaches retire-
ment, his dependants will receive an
amount equivalent to his expected retire-
ment benefit —either from the fund or
from the insurance cover, or a combina-
tion of both. If he reaches the specified
retiring age his insurance cover will have
diminished to nothing but his super-
annuation fund benefit by way of invest-
ments will have reached its full extent.
The investments of the fund are
calculated to compound at six per cent.,
but experience has shown that capital
gain often greatly increases the predicted
retirement benefits. Other points in the
system, briefly, are: it may be set up for
any number of employees—even for only
one employee; working directors are
eligible to join; employers and employees
may contribute any amounts at any time;
the plan does not require employers or
employees to make regular payments
although that is desirable. They do not
contract to make payments and can
therefore reduce their payments or stop
making payments altogether if they wish.
However, if annual insurance is desired,
there must be sufficient funds to the
member’s credit to meet the relatively
small insurance premium; benefits are
payable on death, on reaching retirement
age, on termination of employment
before retirement or, in the case of
women, on marriage.
An undeniable advantage of the unit
trust system is that it relieves companies
of the expense and responsibility of
managing their superannuation funds. To
be successful, the investment portfolios
must be constantly supervised and
expertly managed.


ACT BEFORE JUNE 30
SAVE TAX AND RETIRE
WITH
£lO,OOO OR MORE...
You can now plan for a happy, secure retirement . . . the A.F.T.
National Retirement Fund is designed to bring you rich rewards
in later years and can also take care of your dependants if you
should not live to retirement age.
A.F.T. National Retirement Fund is open to all, male or female,
self-employed or otherwise, irrespective of income or age.
There is no maximum limit and the sum payable on retire-
ment is tax-free, whether it he £lO,OOO, £26,000 or £90,000.
Benefits vary according to a member's age and contribution pay-
ments. For example, for an annual payment of £l5O, a member
of 40 can expect a tax-free lump sum of £8,725 on retirement;
a member aged 30, at least £17,725; while a member aged 50
would receive £3,770.
The contributions, of course, can be larger or smaller according
to income and requirements. Contributions up to £4OO are
allowable deductions for income tax purposes in terms of Section
82H of the Income Tax Assessment Act and contributions
made prior to June 30th are deductible from this year’s
income.
Full details of this comprehensive plan are contained in the free and post free
booklet illustrated. Write for it today ... you owe it to yourself, to your future!
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS LIMITED
Registered Office:
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney. Phone 28-2741
9S
NATIONAL
RETIREMENT
FUND
POST COUPON FOR FREE BOOKLET
8143
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS LIMITED
Registered Office:
16 O'Connell St., Sydney. 28-2741
Please send me, without obligation, your free booklet,
“A.F.T. National Retirement Fund.”
NAME
ADDRESS
4752/83
ARCHITECTURE
LAYMEN SPEAK OUT
T aymen have recently held Sydney’s
architectural limelight. They were
those who were invited to deliver the
principal papers at the Australian Archi-
tects’ Convention, and also a visiting
director of the Royal Ballet, Covent
Garden, London.
Mr Martin Carr started a controversy
which has since raged around the world.
He wondered, publicly, if there was
sufficient space and height behind the
main stage of Sydney’s Opera House to
change back drop screens and on the
sides of the stage to control the large
casts which may be used in some operas.
Mr Carr's public question has focused
a lot of attention on Sydney’s Opera
House and much more will be heard
about it. As an Englishman, and a
recognised authority on the subject, Mr
Carr cannot but be commended for being
a brave, courageous man fighting his
battle in foreign lands in the interests of
opera.
Perhaps the most colorful of the
invited non-architect guest speakers at
the recent Architects’ Convention was its
chairman, Dr P. Reyner Banham. He
has an unusual specialty, being an archi-
tectural historian and critic. The Assist-
ant Executive Director of “Architectural
Review” an internationally recognised
architectural magazine—he also lectures
at the Courtauld Institute and Bartlett
School of Architecture at London
University.
He started Australians thinking saying,
soon after his arrival, that our architec-
ture fell into “a peculiar ugliness.” And
he kept us intrigued by adding that he
couldn't quite put his finger on the rea-
son for it.
He noted that we had our own special
type of sprawl following the world-
wide trend and also an unwillingness
to spend money on buildings.
He lived up to his reputation for hold-
ing strong and provocative views when
he spoke out against gadgets in the home.
Dr Banham said that at the moment
we are living through a period where our
homes are so cluttered with gadgets that
they will eventually drive us all mad.
“Hie sooner they retract into the wood-,
work the better,” he quipped.
A psychiatrist also added his observa-
tions to the convention. “Architects
should design homes which enable their
clients to get satisfaction from life and
escape from inner conflicts,” said Dr John
Herron, Registrar of the Cerebral
Surgery Unit at the Callan Park Mental
Hospital in Sydney. He added that
architects should plan to allow for
releases of human emotion.
As an example, Dr Herron pointed out
that a man cannot have an argument with
his wife now nor kick the dog because
of the thin walls of his flat. And, being
practical, he suggested that architects
should build ball rooms with two wash-
basins to enable more than one person
to use the room at the same time.
He also commented about the control
of noise in the home “If, as archi-
tects, you- design better buildings which
reduced noise, you will also cut down on
the heavy drug intake which is causing so
much injury to health in many of our
work categories.”
B.H.C.


SOUND COMPANIES DESIROUS OF SECURING
Stock Exchange Listing
ARE OFFERED
Expert advice on procedures and listing requirements
Full underwriting facilities.
Inquiries, which will be treated in the strictest confidence,
should be addressed personally to
STOCK UNDERWRITERS LTD.
456 COLONS STREET, MELBOURNE
Telephone: 67 7991, 67 7992, 67 7993.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
Head Office: 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
BVV 4991
Phone: BWIOII, BWIOI2,
DIRECTORS:
STRUAN ROBERTSON (Chairman) SEA RTTRT tnt''
JA T S O H - 2 r A S?S! ON ’ R - G ' GALE ' RAYMOND S GOwTbD, C.B.E
A. C. MAITLAND R. A. CATLEY
(Manager)
(Managing Director)
Branches and Agencies in all States.
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION MERITS YOUR SUPPORT
"GOLDEN MILE" FOR MELBOURNE
By CROESUS
Qir Arthur Warner has been making
up for lost time these last few weeks,
following his recent indisposition which
put him into a Perth hospital for a while.
Fle’s been busy, as most people know,
lining up a TV company to get Mel-
bourne’s new channel for what he calls
the dispossessed shareholders of his Elec-
tronic Industries Ltd, which had to part
with Pye-fated shares in G.T.V. some
time back.
Then, looking as fit as can be, he called
the financial Press to meet him at stock-
broker Arthur Goode’s office in Queen
Street the other night and sat with us for
an hour or more giving his plans for his
new finance company being floated in con-
junction with Australian and International
Isurances Ltd, and discussing with gusto-
any particular subject coming to mind,
such as the propaganda value of TV, the
profitability of factoring, and so on.
But nobody, least of all the ratepayers
in the inner City of Melbourne, expected
him to throw the bombshell he threw as
Victoria’s Minister of Transport last
week. Everybody thought all was quiet
on the Melbourne underground front
until Sir Arthur made it known that rate-
payers within a quarter-mile of the pro-
posed underground would shortly (prob-
ably soon after October this year) have
to start paying for its construction.
This was very welcome news for Mel-
burnians who have to hike varying dis-
tances from either Flinders or Spencer
Street Stations to get to their offices, for
it meant that the Government is in real
earnest about building the railway. But
for property owners whose buildings have
been languishing these many years on the
cold fringe of the city centre without
much hope of getting into the running
of “The Golden Mile” the news met with
very mixed feelings.
What stuck most in their throats was
the fearsome figure of £2O million —that
is two-thirds of the £3O million expected
total cost of the line—which they will
have to pay over a period of 53 years as
their contribution to the cost of the
venture. Reduced to annual payments, it
means they will have to pay some
£300,000 a year between them, more or
less, indefinitely.
HpHE big headache for ratepayers now is
find this sizable amount before their
up-rated properties have the benefit of the
new business they are expected to derive
from the railway. The problem could be
relieved to some extent by an uplift in
property values along the line, but the
local property market is pretty flat all
round these days, and unless they have
to, nobody will want to sell until it re-
covers. But the consensus of opinion is
that some property owners will contrive
to get out of the area, so an immediate
fall in property values could be in pros-
pect.
Many of those who elect to stay on
and pay up will doubtless take refuge in
mortgages and bank overdrafts. One of
the difficulties is that over a good deal
of its length the line will run through
what is virtually now a business no-man’s
land, and many small shops and proper-
ties will be caught in the net.
The State Government, which has full
jurisdiction in imposing and fixing the
rate and also in assessing the ratable
value of the properties affected, originally
decided the new rates would be based on
the unimproved capital value of the land.
This would have hit small property
owners severely. So the Melbourne City
Council persuaded the Government to
compromise by fixing half the rate on this
basis and the other half on the net annual
value of properties.
As for Victorians outside the newly
rated area, they may think themselves
fortunate in not being stung by the new
imposts, but they will certainly be hear-
ing from the State Treasurer when the
time comes for finding the Government’s
£lO million share of the required finance.
Though there are plenty of plans about,
and there’s been an occasional outburst
about the line threatening to intrude on
the sacrosanct Treasury Gardens, nobody
seems to know exactly when construction
is to start, how long the project will take,
or even if £3O million will see it through
to completion. Sir Arthur has not elabor-
ated on these aspects yet, except to relish
the thought that the sooner the Govern-
ment can collect money from the rate-
payers, the more interest will be earned
on it. This is cold comfort for those who
will have to pay up in advance of seeing
something, even a hole or two, for their
money.
To Sir Arthur’s keen financial senses
it must seem a very nice deal. After all,
this method of financing served very well
for the genesis of the Volkswagen in Ger-
many before the war, even if the pre-pay-
ments by the Herren and Damen for their
unborn cars eventually finished up in
Hitler’s war chest.
UN SPECIAL FUND
URGENT AND SPECIFIC AID
TjVjR too few people in Australia are
aware of the role of the United
Nations Special Fund in assisting the
economic and social development of
scores of under-developed countries to
attain a higher standard of living. The
Fund trains local people in the skills re-
quired to make those resources productive
and strengthens institutions in those coun-
tries to organise and manage important
development activities.
The Special Fund in two years ap-
proved 157 projects in 50 countries, at
a cost of £A.187 million. Nearly half of
this amount was contributed by the Fund,
and the balance by the recipient coun-
tries. The projects embraced all kinds of
agricultural, industrial, marine, meteorol-
ogical, hydrological, mineral, transport
and communications undertakings.
The work of the Fund during its brief
period of existence has brought such out-
standing results that its continuance at
an accelerated pace is of the utmost im-
portance.


Il&I
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT Co. Ltd.
Financier . . Established 1882
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
interest payable quarterly through the Bank ol N.S.YV Tree ol Exchange.
THIS ISSUE HAS BEEN FULLY SUBSCRIBED . . .
OVER SUBSCRIPTIONS NOW BEING ACCEPTED
Application Forms (and Prospectuses)
will be Forwarded on Request
Applications will be accepted only on one ol the forms
of application attached to the printed copy of the Pros-
pectus which may be obtained from:
q All branches of the Bank of New South Wales in New
South Wales, Australian Capital Territory, Victoria,
Queensland.
O Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange, or
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
Head Office: 74 Castlereagh Street. Sydney.
Telephone: BW 4521-2-3.
AND BRANCHES
Underwriting Brokers:
R ALPH W. KING & YU ILL
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
20-22 O’Connell Street, Sydney
84 William Street, Melbourne. S4O Queen. Street, Brisbane
BROKERS IN VICTORIA
Clarke & Co., 450 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
BROKERS IN QUEENSLAND
Charles Elliott & Son, 356 Queen St., Brisbane
(Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
BROKERS IN CANBERRA
T. J. Thompson & Sons, C.B.C. Chambers,
Petrie St., Canberra.
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
■ ■■
mmm
_ ’
08mm
THE SHARE MARKET
INVESTORS ARE STILL HESITANT
By CROESUS
TTow does one reconcile the unhappy
reluctance of share markets to re-
flect the improving tempo of production
and business, the successive weekly leaps
in overseas reserves and talk that the
scene is set for another boom? Obviously
some of the country’s leading share
brokers have been unable to do so.
Those who were very vocal a year ago
that then was the “time to buy”
are if anything even more adamant that
“now is the hour”.
Investment advisers in Australia have
obviously not taken the cautionary mood
of overseas investors sufficiently into ac-
count in their predictions, though they
must know well enough that portfolio
investment from overseas is but a shadow
of the volume it reached two years ago
and that, for all the local feeling that
business is getting better in Australia,
overseas investors are not so close to it
and have to consider what Britain’s join-
ing the Common Market would portend
for investment here on the long term.
But overseas influences are not para-
mount in our share markets. On. must
further explore the motives of local in-
vestors to get the keys to the reluctance
of markets to advance in face o f econ-
omic improvement. One overriding con-
sideration since the spurt of the indices
in February is certainly the thought that
the next dividend and report season start-
ing next month is bound to be a sober
one.
Business has hardly improved suffic-
iently in the current half of the year to
make up for the depressed results of the
fiist half, and few companies are ex-
pected to match the results for the 1960-
61 period, which wasn’t very much to
write home about in most cases. It is all
very well that profits are now on the up-
grade and that better times are predicted,
but investors will certainly scrutinise the
impending series of reports and accounts
very closely for tangible signs of re-
covery.
This will apply particularly to insti-
tutional investors whose role in moving
prices is still probably decisive, despite
their less flexible approach to equity in-
vestment dictated by the Government’s
30/20 requirement for investment of
insurance company and superannuation
funds in Government and semi-Govern-
ment securities. The effect of the 30/20
requirement, particularly on superannu-
ation funds, in the market for equity
shares is not to be underestimated, for not
only has it reduced the amount avail-
able for equity investment but it has
also made these funds much more selec-
tive in their investments.
Moreover, as the chairman of the
AMP, Mr C. G. Crane, stressed at the
recent annual meeting of the Society,
the obligation, even on funds which have
built up their required proportion of
Government and semi-Government se-
curities, is a continuing one and “it will
be necessary to set aside automatically
considerable allocations for this category
of investment in order to maintain the
required proportion to total funds”.
Qo one must not necessarily take the
sublime optimism of Mr Staniforth
Ricketson at its face value. In his address
to shareholders of Jonathan Investment
he seemed to envisage a huge volume of
money waiting to come into the market,
“thus anticipating a great upsurge of in-
vestment interest which may well occur
in the next few months”.
This may not be the case at all. It
would be a mistake to underrate the
continued attractions of investment in
bonds and to take it for granted that a
massive switch out of these or short-
term employments for money into the
share market is just around the corner.
On the other hand, the diversion of
investment funds into oil search shares
could well be tapering off now and there
could, in fact, be a trek back to indus-
trials by a lot of this money in the
coming months unless there is some new
startling oil discovery.
Equally with no big new industrial
issues soaking up funds and BHP look-
ing overseas for debenture money,
straight portfolio investment in shares
could well benefit, provided the econ-
omic recovery is indeed sustained. But
for all the present exhortations of some
brokers, most investors will prefer to
wait at least until the Budget before get-
ting really excited at the prospects for
capital appreciation in ordinary shares.


COMPANY REVIEWS AND NOTES
GORDON AND GOTCH (A’SIA) LTD
RECORD IN PAPER PROFITS
HPhe old-established firm of Gordon and
Gotch (Australasia) Ltd is by far
the biggest wholesale newsagent, book-
seller and stationer in Australia.
It has branches in all State capitals,
as well as Townsville (Qld.) and Laun-
ceston (Tas.). A subsidiary company
operates in New Zealand through
branches in Wellington, Auckland,
Dunedin and Christchurch. All properties
are freehold with the exception of
Dunedin.
G. and G. distributes local and
imported publications, magazines, news-
papers, books, etc. throughout Australia
and New Zealand, and supplies export
markets in South-east Asia. The com-
pany also acts as an advertising agent,
conducts railway bookstalls in Sydney
and Brisbane, and holds valuable dis-
tributing rights for paper, printing
machinery and printers’ requisites.
The company haj a long record of
profitability and dividend payments
stretching back to at least 1923. Con-
servative financial policy has allowed the
creation of hidden reserves, which are
occasionally revealed to shareholders
through assets revaluation and bonus
issues. Tax provisions have only been
published in the last seven years and
consolidated accounts in the last five.
Until 1961 the assets and earnings of
the New Zealand subsidiary were
included in group accounts as if £NZIOO
equalled £AIOO.
The overall result of trading for the
year ended March 31, 1961, was an
increase in profit on 1960, but directors
made it clear that improved performance
in New Zealand had compensated for
difficulties in Australia. The removal of
import restrictions in February, 1960,
allowed a flood of cheap imported
papers into the country, so that local
manufacturers met this by instituting a
new method of trading with wholesale
merchants which gave them lower profit
margins.
Book subscription sales in Australia
on extended credit were seriously affected
by the financial restrictions imposed by
the Government in November, 1960.
Collection of debts was also slower.
In the year to March 31, 1962, profit
has miraculously recovered by £124,902
to £450,753, although group turnover
was lower:—
PARENT ONLY.
, Dividends A
Year
Ended Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Mch., Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary, serves. serves.
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
1953 8000 22 ] / 2 146,250 28,329 721,519
From stock reserve, £275,000 .. 996,519
From bad debts reserve, £43,000 1,039,519
From tax reserve, £56,263 .. 1,095,782
Revaluation reserve, £325,000 .. 1,420,782
1954 8000 25 162,500 128,745 1,549,527
From provisions, £10,883 .. .. 1,560,410
Reserves capitalised, £325,000 . 1,235,410
1955 8000 181 238,244 64,417 1,299,827
1956 8000 18-i- 238,250 93,721 1,393,548
Tax overprovided, £5,206 .. .. 1,398,754
1957 8000 18£ 238,250 84,779 1,483,533
PARENT AND SUBSIDIARIES*
Profit sale plant, £7448 .. .. 1,490,981
Added on consolidation, £535,812 2,026 793
1958 8000 19.16 249,080 132,804 2,159’,597
Profit sale plant, £11,396 .. .. 2,170,993
Unexplained addition, £14,844 2,185 837
1959 8000 20 259,910 79,341 2,265,178
profit sale of plant, £10,606 .. 2,275,784
To internal insurance reserve,
£6024 2,281,808
From prov. rehabilitation, £19,098 2,262,710
Unexplained addition, £44,023 .. 2,306,733
1960 8000 20 259,910 44,417 2,351,150
Profit «ale of plant, £5699 . .. 2,356,849
To internal insurance reserve,
£7728 2,364,577
Share premiums, £331,447 .. .. 2,696,024
Revaluation land and buildings,
£170,515 2,866,539
From prov. rehabilitation, £17,951 2,848,588
Added on consolidation, £111.925 2,960,513
Unexplained addition, £92,504 .. 3,053,017
1361—325,851 8000 20 237,838 80,013 3,133.030
Profit sale assets, £6626 .. 3,139.656
Add to general reserve, £254 . 3,139,910
Add to internal insurance reserve,
£5506 3,145,416
Less provision long service, £ 17,000 3,128,416
Less provision repairs to property,
£lO,OOO 3,118,416
Unexplained reduction, £626 . . 3,117,790
1962—450,753 8000 18£ 261,622 181,131 3,298'921
*The figures of the New Zealand Co. have been
included in New Zealand currency up until and
including 1960. The NZ subsidiary has been
brought to account in 1961 and 1962 on the
basis of £ NZIOO £AI24 10s.
The chairman (Mr G. Sutherland Smith)
does not favor shareholders with any
further explanation other than that
“despite the allowance for the vagaries
of income taxation” whatever that
might mean—strict economies were put
into operation which resulted in an
increased net profit.
As the tax provision at £339,922 is
£6,a93 below the 1961 figure, share-
holders might rightly wonder just what
the score is. Depreciation provision was
£10,069 higher at £85,446.
The New Zealand subsidiary produced
satisfactory results and increased its
dividend to the parent. In the parent
company s accounts dividends from sub-
sidiaries increased from £102,542 to
£126,673. We do not know how much
of this came from the NZ company,
although in 1960-61 £93,000 was paid to
the parent from a profit of £149,066
(Australian currency).
The record profit allowed the com-
pany to edge up its dividend from 16i
p.c. to 18} p.c., and shareholders might
reasonably expect a return this year to
the 20 p.c. dividend paid in 1959 and
1960. The earning rate picked up from
22.3 to 31 p.c., and compares with 23.4,
26.0, 29.4, 24.8 and 26.1 p.c. back to
1956.
The lower turnover resulted in reduc-
tions in stocks and book debts and a
tremendous increase in liquidity:—
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
1960 1961 1962
Paid capital—
Pref. 100,000 100,000 100,000
Ord. 1,299,549 1,427,028 1,427,028
Reserves 2,351,150 3,133,030 3,298,921
Share applications 446,674
Minority interest 26,728 26,223 27 052
Mortgage 211,200 481,200 25<k000
Creditors 1,379,083 1,403,188 1,359 401
Overdraft 55,297
Staff funds 25,544
Suspense 33’907
Tax provision 512,229 651,462 525,760
Final divs. 133,955 122,919 146,703
£6,460,568 £7,400.347 £7,194,316
Freeholds 1,880,577 2,175,150 2,166,211
Plan t 286,957 304.540 294|659
Investment 250 200 200
Stocks 1,930,254 2,528,531 2.034,771
Book debts 2,035,248 2,342,536 1,944,529
Cash 327,282 49,390 753,946
£6,460,568 £7,400,347 £7,194,316
Mortgage was reduced substantially. At
balance date the group had £527,118 in
cash, £lOO,OOO at call, £76,828 in fixed
and other deposits, and £50,000 in Com-
monwealth Inscribed Stock.
Reserves comprise £2,144,700 general,
£78,700 internal insurance, and the
makings of future bonuses in £331,447
share premiums, £111,925 surplus on
consolidation, and £170,515 profit on
revaluation of land and buildings not
acquired for resale. Profit and loss
appropriation account was £461,564
after allowing for the final dividends.
Capital moves since the war have
been a three-for-ten bonus in June, 1950,
a one-for-two bonus in June, 1954,
followed by a one-for-three par issue, and
a one-for-ten issue of ss. ordinary shares
at 13s. premium in February, 1960.
In the 1961 annual address the chair-
man pointed out that besides the share
premiums, reserve account of £717,523
had been created by the revaluation of
the New Zealand company’s shares.
However, he said there was no immediate
intention of issuing bonus shares.
So far G. and G. has not entered the
takeover field, but a recent increase in
nominal capital to £4 million gave it the
wherewithal.
In November, 1961, when the half-
yearly dividend was continued at the
rate of 8i p.c., directors told share-
holders that sales for the six months to
September, particularly in paper and


CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on Bth March, 1950.
(ASSETS EXCEED £11,000,000.)
PER ANNUM
4YEARS
TM
m
FUNDS MAY BE WITHDRAWN IN A PERSONAL EMERGENCY
APPLICATIONS MUST BE MADE ON THE FORM ENCLOSED
IN THE PROSPECTUS, WHICH IS NOW AVAILABLE FROM:
All Branches ©f the BANK OF N.S.W.
The Company's Offices,
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Fir., Empire House, Corner Wharf end Queen Sts.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street.
NEWCASTLE WEST: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter St.
WAGGA: 147 Beyliss Street.
Any Member ©f the Stack Exchange
BROKERS:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of fhe Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
BANKERS FOR THE ISSUE AND THE COMPANY: THE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
CC. .134/AB
EXPLOSIVES Log-splitting and
post-hole guns. Powder and fuse
for same. Blasting mats. Tamping
rods. Magazines. Carrying boxes.
Exploders and all accessories.
STEAM VALVES Everlasting
valve. Particularly suitable for
boiler blow-off or full on.
WATER FILTERS For farm,
household and industrial use.
TUYERES Hot air for forges.
MINING Curvilinear tables for
ore concentration. Classifiers. Rapid
magnetting machines.
TOOLS Barrows, pinch and other
bars. Jumpers, mattocks, picks,
handles, shovels, quarry tools, road-
lamps, etc.
ENQUIRIES TO
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.,
78 PARRAMATTA ROAD, CAMPERDOWN, N.S.W.
book subscriptions, were lower, but they
expected profit for the year to March
to approximately equal the previous
year’s result. This news left shareholders
unprepared for the announcement of a
dividend increase in late May. The ss.
ordinaries jumped from 15s. 9d. to
17s. 7d. a week, and have since sold
at 18s. ex dividend, to yield 5.2 p.c.
The ss. 8 p.c. cumulative preference
shares, which incidentally have no prefer-
ential rights as to return of capital,
usually sell around ss. 6d. to yield 7.3
p.c.
The company’s financial practices
make it difficult to predict performance
with any degree of accuracy, but for any-
one prepared to await the directors’
pleasure, the stock presents good value
for money.
NATIONAL RELIANCE INV.
PORTFOLIO APPRECIATES
lOecovery of share prices since the
December, 1960, depths is reflected
in the appreciation of the investments
held by the Capel Court company,
National Reliance Investment Co. Ltd.
On March 31, 1962, the cost price of
investments held was £1,493,264, and
the market value £2,909,294 —an
appreciation of £1,416,030. Certainly
the portfolio was smaller the year before,
costing £1,354,691, but the market
showed an appreciation of only
£1,067,224. The net asset backing at
latest balance date is 295. for each 10s.
unit, compared with 245. lid. in the
prior year, based on market value of
investments.
Funds were concentrated into 378
channels (405 in 1961), almost all being
Australian securities. The trend during
the year was away from bonds, deben-
tures and notes into ordinary shares.
Various changes in the company’s invest-
ments produced a profit, after allowing
for tax, of £17,303 which was trans-
ferred to investment fluctuation reserve,
bringing that account to £99,842.
Profit for the year rose 6 p.c. from
£94,002 to £100,438, and shareholders
received a steady 10 p.c. dividend, which
absorbed £92,400. After transferring
£BOOO to general reserve, the carry-
forward in the profit and loss account
was £13,488, compared with the open-
ing figure of £13,450. The net revenue
in 1961-62 represented a return of 10.9
p.c. on paid-up capital, compared with
11.1 p.c. on average capital of the year
before.


res auckt
AUSTRALIAN FACTORS
LIMITED
p
for five years
or more
LONG
TERM
p.a.
4 years
8%
p.a.
3 years
p.a.
2 years
SHORT
TERM
7%
p.o.
12 months
p.a.
9 months
b°Jo
p.a.
S months
5!%
p.a.
3 months
5 i°?o
p.a.
at call
BANKERS: Australia & New Zealand Bank Ltd.
BROKERS TO THE ISSUE: Patrick & Co.
TRUSTEES: Permanent Nominees Pty. Limited.
HOW TO APPLY: Applications must be made on the form
attached to the Prospectus and the acknowledgment will be
a Registered Redeemable Unsecured Note. Applications may
be lodged at —
• Any branch of the Australia & New Zealand Bank Ltd.
• Patrick & Co., 16 0 Connell Street, Sydney, or any member
of a recognised Stock Exchange.
• Australian Factors Limited, 126 Phillip Street, Sydney.
Interest payable half-yearly—free of exchange.
AUSTRALIAN FACTORS LIMITED
I AUSTRALIAN FACTORS LIMITED, 126 Phillip Street, Sydney.
Please send me, without obligation, a copy of your
Prospectus offering Registered Unsecured Notes.
I Mr./Mrs./Miss ____________________
I
I Address
1829
GEORGE HUDSON HOLDINGS LTD
SHAREHOLDERS FACE DECISION
At the extraordinary general meeting
shareholders of the old family tim-
ber business, George Hudson Holdings
Ltd, will have the choice of supporting
the existing board in its efforts to make
a speedy recovery, or of voting in four
new directors to revitalise the company.
The existing board —Sir Norman Nock
(chairman), and Messrs E. S. Hudson,
G. K. Hudson, C. J. Stevens, K. B.
Raymond, K. M. Hudson and A. Morgan
—were in control at the last annual meet-
ing in December when the accounts for
the year ended June 30, 1961, were pre-
sented to shareholders, but failed to re-
ceive their approval.
The rejection of the accounts was
moved at that meeting by Dr George
Hudson, who is leader of a committee of
dissentient shareholders, and one of the
nominees for the Board. The others:
Messrs J. L. Brown, H. R. Irving and
E. St. John. The indifferent performance
of the company since listing in 1955, cap-
ped by a loss in 1961 which exceeded any
previous year’s profit, was the reason for
their discontent. Certainly it was the first
loss in the company’s history, and credit
restrictions hit most companies associa-
ted with the building industry broadside
in that period. The company failed to
pay a dividend, and the shares are now
languishing below par.
A ctivities of the group begin with the
felling of a tree and end with the ar-
rangement of finance for the homebuilder.
Subsidiary and associate companies are
George Hudson Pty Ltd, George Hudson
(Importers) Pty Ltd, Donoghoe and
Hopkins Pty Ltd, Hudsons’ United
Developments Pty Ltd, Joseph Reid Pty
Ltd, Quality Timber Homes Pty Ltd,
South Grafton Engineering Co. Pty Ltd,
South Grafton Fibrous Plaster Pty Ltd,
Wangan Ply Milling Co. Pty Ltd, Wan-
gan Sawmilling Co. Pty Ltd, Wangan
Innisfail Logging Co. Pty Ltd, Glen-
view Sawmill, Monga Transport Pty Ltd,
and Townsville Timber Pty Ltd.
The company claims it is a leader in
project building, making homes which ful-
fil all the requirements of lending institu-
tions and local government authorities.
It also admits to having substantial
interests in tracts of land, exceeding 150
acres, at Blacktown and other Sydney
western suburbs, the development of
which was retarded by credit restrictions.
Eventually more than 500 homes will be
erected there, say directors. The group is
also interested in plywood wholesaling and
the importing of timbers for the building
trade.
In the five years preceding listing the
company’s earnings on capital were 9.45,
10.93, 13.67, 10.10, and 11.08 p.c. in
1954. Since then the rate has been 11.59,
9.68, 10.52, 9.67, 9.75 and 10.05 p.c.
in 1960, followed by the 1961 loss, which
depleted reserves to their lowest point
since 1956: —
June Net
30 Prof. Dividends To Res. Res.
1956 125,887 8* = 104,000 21,887 914,403
Less Capital loss 184 914.219
1957 136,812 8* = 104,000 32,812 947.031
Less Net Capital losses .. 3,736 943,295
Tax overprovided 7,608 950,903
1958 125,653 8 = 104,000 21,653 972,556
Less Tax underprovided . 2.007 970,549
Capital profits 3,471 974,020
Assets revaluation 2.300 976,320
Accumulated profits of subsidiaries
wholly acquired 3,521 979,841
1959 126,699 7 = 91,000 35,699 1.015,540
Less Tax underprovided . 357 1,015.183
Capital profits 3,042 1,018.225
1980 130,609 7 = 91,000 39,609 1,057,834
Tax overprovided 8,767 1,066,601
Capital profits 3.996 1,070,597
1961 Loss 173,646 nil —173,646 896,951 f
*Partly tax-free.
tSubject to £728,779 intangibles as at
30/6/61.
Three of the eleven subsidiaries incurred
losses for the year 1961. The recession
in the building industry produced a sub-


FINANCE
CORPORATION
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(incorporated in South Australia under
the Companies Act 193-4/52)
The Bank of Adelaide owns 40% of the
Ordinary Capital of the Company
FULLY SECURED REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
A
Stock Registers are maintained in each
Capital City. Prospectuses should be
obtained from and applications made to: —
JOINT BANKERS TO THE ISSUE
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
Members of the Stock Exchanges
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney,
Brisbane, Perth
Applications for Debenture Stock can be accepted only
on the printed form attached to the prospectus.
Q 523
stantial fall in demand for the company’s
products. As the earlier lifting of import
restrictions had allowed the trade to build
up heavy stocks of timber, considerable
price-cutting developed, thus reducing
profit margins. As the cost of replacing
imported timber stocks fell after Novem-
ber 15, directors chose to write down
stocks held at June 30, 1961, from cost
to current replacement value, involving
£BO,OOO.
Net tangible asset backing per ss.
ordinary share has been reduced from 6s.
in 1957 to ss. Bd. currently, yet capital
has remained unchanged, except for the
issue of £12,588 in 1961. The reserves
of £896,951 are largely offset by intan-
gibles of £728,779:
1959 1960 1961
£ £ £
Property 806,889 847,495 862^339
Plant, etc. 269.686 336,125 353,805
Investments 49,468 105,468 104,285
Stocks 1,035,757 1,649,966 1,375,173
Debtors 612.646 811,431 905,191
Cash 4,235 4,018 4,445
Intangibles 716,130 731,733 728,779
£3,494,811 £4,486,236 £4,334,017
Capital 1,300,000 1,300,000 1,312,588
Reserves 1,015,540 1,057,834 896,951
Minority interest 32,526 30,860 1,917
Secured loan 252 671
Overdraft 481,428 984,708 1,721,551
Creditors 527,349 709,883 387220
Tax Provision 85.963 104.780 13 790
Pinal div. 52,000 45,500 £
£3,494.811 £4,486,236 £4,334,017
The secured loan from the Commercial
and General Insurance Ltd was repaid in
1961, and heavy reliance was placed on
the bank for funds. Indeed the debt to
the company s banker exceeded share-
holders capital. But no statement con-
cerning the company’s liquidity has been
made lately. Trading for the half-year to
December 31, 1961, was profitable, and
at June 1, directors reported that the
company continued to operate at a profit,
and as building activity was increasing,
the outlook was for continued improve-
ment.
JQirectors had arranged two new fran-
chises, one for the distribution of
farming equipment, motor vehicles,
tractors and parts for the International
Harvester Co. in the Clarence River
district, without restriction elsewhere, and
the other for aluminium weatherboard
from a leading Australian maker, un-
restricted throughout NSW and ACT.
They also stated that the market for the
laminated plastic, Arborite, for which
the group has Australian distributing
rights, was developing.
Whatever the merits of Dr Hudson’s
case against the present management, his
task of unseating several directors is
made well-nigh impossible by the fact that
the company was listed when Stock
Exchanges did not insist on companies
having a sliding voting scale. Each share
in George Hudson carries one vote, with
the restriction that 20 or fewer share-
holders should not control more than 66
p.c. of the votes. Dr Hudson claims that
86 shareholders, including three executive
directors, hold about 70 p.c. of the voting
strength. The majority of public share-
holders therefore have little influence in
the affairs of the company.
Sir Norman Nock and Messrs E. S.
Hudson and G. K. Hudson, whose posi-
tion on the board is not questioned by
Dr Hudson, do not support the move to
oust their four fellow directors, and con-
sider the ability and application of those
four men are not likely to be equalled by
Dr Hudson and his candidates.
Directors may be correct in saying that
“the security of the group has been pro-
tected by a careful spread of assets”. But
unless these assets are quickly made
productive, the company faces serious
problems of liquidity. Evidence of a
strong and permanent recovery can be
the only justification for retention of the
present board.
The ss. shares recently sold at around
3s. 9d.


CUSTOM CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
(PAID UP CAPITAL £7,000,000)
' ryT' M r>
r*
itfta
7%...4 years and over
6% ... 12 months' notice
5%...6 months' notice
4% ... 3 months' notice
Interest is paid in Equal Quarterly Instalments
Free of Exchange, on the last days of June.
September, December and March.
TRUSTEES
FOR THE DEBENTURE HOLDERS:
The Perpetual Trustee Company (ltd.)
DIRECTORS
lan M. Jacoby
(Chairman and Managing Director)
L. W. Coppleson G. T. Hartigan
R. E. Ash C. S. Gittoes
This is not a Prospectus. A copy of the Prospectus
covering this issue of Registered Debentures has been
lodged with the Registrar of Companies, Sydney.
Application must be made on the Forms enclosed
in the Prospectus, which is now available from
All Members of
The Stock Exchange
All Branches of
The National Bank
and
Custom Credit Corporation
limited
100 New South Head Road, Edgecliff, Sydney
Secretary-Genera!: KEITH LOVE. Tel.: 32-0111
RD42.562
INSTANT ENGINE STARTING
WITH-
11
Proven the world over and endorsed
by Rolls Royce.
Avoid unnecessary engine
wear—just one quick spray
into the air intake is all
that's required. Saves money
by avoiding cylinder scour-
ing and gives longer battery
and starter life. Contains
anti-corrosive and anti-knock
additives with upper
cylinder lubricant.
Less than 2d. per start—Aerostart is available at only 21/6 from all garages and stores
Manufactured by:
AEROSTART (ANZIA) PTY. LTD.
2 Queens Road, Melbourne. 26-4653.
MACQUARIE WORSTEDS LTD
TOO MUCH WOOLLY THINKING?
shareholders of Macquarie
-*• Worsteds Ltd, Sydney, must be re-
gretting their old-fashioned virtues. The
holder of 100 10s. lOd. ordinary shares in
May 1960 had the opportunity to con-
vert these to £7l ss. cash, or exchange
them for £25 cash and shares in Astor
Consolidated Mills Ltd now worth
£32 16s. 3d. The Astor bid was defeated
by Macquarie shareholders who by a
small bonus converted the awkward
10s. lOd. units into ss. units so that the
former holder of 100 10s. lOd. shares now
has 125 ss. units currently worth
£2O 17s. 6d.
The reason for the below-par price
is the dismal result of trading for 1960-
61 a loss of £86,576, compared with
the previous year’s profit of £51,022.
No dividend was paid, and recently
the directors issued an interim report of
much higher sales than in the very
depressed previous period, but a defer-
ment of dividend considerations until
the full year’s results are known.
The six months to March 31, 1961,
produced a loss of £23,275. Directors
now report that profit was “reasonable”
in the similar period of this year.
Since its inception the company has
been beleaguered by troubles of a basic
nature. Mills were widely separated
making economical management difficult
and competition from local and overseas
manufacturers was keen. Ordinary
shareholders have missed dividends in
seven years since 1933.
In 1960-61 when sales were approxi-
mately half their usual level, manage-
ment took the opportunity of streamlin-
ing manufacturing activities, concentrat-
ing on the dyeing and spinning in Albury
and the weaving and finishing at
Orange.
In its balance sheet dated September
1959 the company credited Astor
Textile Pty Ltd with 24.6 p.c. of
its total group turnover. Astor sewing
threads were used in the seaming of
outerwear, underwear, bags for pack-
aging food, fertilisers, cement etc, towels,
pillowcases, bedsheets, bedspreads, chen-
ille fabrics, stockinette, surgical dress-
ings, curtains and all furnishings, slide
fasteners, leathergoods, embroidery etc.
The remaining 75.4 p.c. of sales was
registered by Astor Worsted Spinning
Mills Pty Ltd and Astor Yarn Processors
Pty Ltd producing wool, mohair, orlon
and nylon yarns and combinations there-
of, to knit and weave cardigans, pull-
overs, twinsets, wool jersey frocks,
men’s hosiery, infants’ blankets, piece-
goods, scarves and stoles, underwear,
ladies’ sockettes and many varied pro-
ducts. Nary a mention of sports trousers!


u
. SNOWS .
mrn'mmc* sbakVho
i
AUSTRALIA WIDt CHAIM OF RETAIt StaßlS
12 TRADING COMPANIES
113 STORES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
DEPOSIT INVESTMENT
PLAN
The Company will accept deposits which it can profitably
employ and will pay the following rates of interest per annum.
m
PARTONS
DANDENONG
bst.j9l6 ,
mi
m
4PPUp£TtON£,~-ro3\ &« togged ijffly >&$;!& ot tfio prospectus, wbicft oMameci" i rom
• The Secretary, Cox Brothers (Australia).Limited, 75 Flinders lane, Meib.
• Any Member of a Stock Exchange.
BROKERS TO THE
-lAN POTTER & CO..'Ji
. V AOttAIBE—<«N»t»R«- •


CONSTABLE & COMPANY
BW 0781
Member of the
SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE
25 O’Connell Street,
SYDNEY
The Mall, The Corso, Manly
Telephone: 97-5867
CC.S.
Estab'ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Snipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Pape? Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
lithographic printers
typographers
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
Rulers, book binders
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
•JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
WILD CAT BREVITIES
© Brick Industries Ltd, Melbourne,
reports continuing favorable sales. A
second Hanley tunnel kiln comes into
production next October, bringing output
to 2£m. bricks a week.
• Mr R. C. Wilson becomes chairman
of Tooheys Ltd in place of Mr B. A.
Hollingdale, who has retired as chairman
and a director. Mr C. H. Locke becomes
vice-chairman and Mr B. J. D. Page a
director.
® Varley Dry Accumulators (Aust.) Ltd
lifted sales and investment income in the
December, 1961, half-year.
® Directors of Melbourne soft drink
manufacturer Marchant and Co. Ltd
contemplate asking shareholders for more
capital after about 18 months. Fixed
interest borrowings, already arranged,
satisfy needs in the intervening period.
• Mather and Platt Ltd, of Manchester,
intends to market in England centrifugal
pumps designed and made by its recently
acquired Australian subsidiary Kelly and
Lewis Pty Ltd. The first order covers 150
pumps.
® Mr Robert Law-Smith, vice-chairman
of Qantas, has become a member of the
Australian National Airlines Commission,
which operates TAA.
® Industrial Acceptance Corporation Ltd
offers higher interest rates (up from 4i
p.c. for three months to 7 p.c. for 10
years to 4i p.c. for three months to 8 p.c.
for 10 years) in its latest first mortgage
debenture issue. Prospectus complies with
oversubscriptions provisions of the new
NSW Companies Act.
® Development Underwriting Ltd plans
a new luxury hotel in Sydney’s Macleay
Street.
® Lido Manufacturing Co. Pty Ltd,
Sydney tie maker, is arranging for
public flotation and Stock Exchange
listing through a Sydney broker.
® Austral Malay Tin Lid has transferred
one of its two Perak leases to the asso-
ciated Southern Kinta Consolidated Ltd
for £500,000 cash. Directors believe the
area retained contains greater reserves
than that sold and mention a possibility
of acquiring “additional contiguous land”.
• Tour Finance Ltd proposes to seek
Melbourne Stock Exchange listing after
a par issue of 392,400 ss. shares, bringing
paid capital to £127,500, and a
£50,000 issue of p.c. first mortgage
debentures. The company finances
migrant passages and fares for overseas
travel, but intends to widen financing
activities. Both issues are underwritten by
Walter P. Ham and Co.
© Bayley and Grimster Ltd, Melbourne
electrical engineer and contractor, is able
to pay a 5 per cent dividend for the year
to March 31, 1962, the first for four
years. Profit went up from £5791 to
£9355, giving an 8.49 p.c. earning rate.
© Melbourne furniture group Patersons
(Aust.) Ltd could reach only £150,000
of a target £500,000 of 8 p.c. registered
unsecured notes. Underwriters were
J. B. Were and Son.
• Another company falls into the capa-
cious hands of John Mclbvraitli Indus-
tries Ltd—Sydney sheet metal maker E.
A. Harper and Sons Hldgs Pty Ltd.
Mcllwraith issued Harper 62,124 ss.
ordinary shares (market value 235. 6d.)
and placed a further 153,876 shares at
225. to meet the deal’s cash demands.
• Papuan trader and shipper Steamships
Trading Co. Ltd gains first direct trading
links in New Guinea (Rabaul, Madang,
Goroka and Lae) by its share and cash
purchase of Colyer Watson (New
Guinea) Ltd. Mr R. A. Colyer took the
share choice as confirmation of his
“faith in the future of the Territory”.
• Neon Signs (A’sia) Ltd strung up three
new acquisitions within a week. They
were: Regent Sheet Metal Works Pty,
Brisbane, for cash, shares and options;
Ascot Electrical Services Ltd, Adelaide,
cash and options; Wyt-Ray Products Ltd,
Adelaide electrical fitting maker, for
options only.
® Direct property holdings of Legal and
General Assurance Society Ltd, at
£l6Bm. constitute almost 30 p.c. of all
the society’s assets.
• Electrical and industrial manufacturing
group Email Ltd is taming its large host
of subsidiaries. They are now organised
into five divisions, each under a general
manager responsible to the board.
• Adelaide Chemical and Fertilizer Co.
Ltd has joined with Aerial Agriculture
Pty Ltd, Sydney, in a cash purchase of
the Robby’s Aircraft Ltd group. The two
purchasers, as Robby’s Aerial Services
Ltd, will provide aerial top-dressing and
spraying in South Australia.
REID MURRAY
OUTLOOK IMPROVES
Reid Murray group continues to
face a fairly slow haul back to earlier
profit levels. The managing director, Mr
O. J. O’Grady, believes that the crucial
reorganisation of the retail subsidiaries is
proceeding successfully. He sees a grad-
ual improvement in trade and profit.
April’s interim report had indicated
that the credit retail section constituted
the group’s major problem. At that stage,
which marked omission of the interim
dividend, real estate, electrical appli-
ance and finance subsidiaries were mov-
ing favorably.
Overall liquidity was being assisted
by hire-purchase repayments reaching
about £2 million a month, Mr O’Grady
pointed out last week. The finance com-
pany, Reid Murray Acceptance Ltd, has
launched a new £250,000 debenture
issue. An immediately previous issue
brought in more than £li million over
six months, mostly long term.


FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS, £907,151.
TANGIBLE ASSETS, £3,037,528.
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
WITH RIGHT OF RECALL
ON 30 DAYS’ NOTICE
Sydney. Telephone FA 0322.
Financing world-
famous products
distributed by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies.
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
in Queensland
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
in Queensland
GROUP SALES
YEAR ENDED
31/12/61
£11,983,892
MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD. 7
G.P.0., Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 24/5/62, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
a' 'HD.FX
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £177/000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the economic
growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O’Connell Streets, SYDNEY
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
BHP DEBENTURES
MISADVENTURE IN UK
A t least there can be very, very few
people on this side of the world with
the luxury of being able to say “I told
you so” after BHP’s London misadven-
ture. The company’s premier Australian
reign over a key industry and i + flood
of success with a huge local debenture
issue seemed to lighten the job of drag-
ging a mere £stg.7.sm. from the UK
market.
This was not to be. The distinguished
underwriters, Lazard Bros, and Morgan
Grenfell, could attract only £stg. 920,-
000 from public subscriptions and were
thus left with 87.7 p.c. of the issue.
A consensus of Sydney sources fairly
close to the London move and atmos-
phere agrees that the reasons for failure
were almost entirely technical. N~> major
tarnishing of the BHP image appears
likely. An odd eye or two may have
been cocked at the conservative dividend
and the recent droop in Australian market
esteem.
Also, to a market as sensitively at-
tuned as London, an interest differential
may have exercised some sway. The local
debentures, issued at par, carry 7 p.c.,
whereas the overseas, on a discounted
price, yield an effective £6 17s. 2d. p.c.
Here came the rub. For May 28 saw
the heavy Wall Street retreat, after
weeks of milder uneasiness, and a sym-
pathetic shudder through many other
exchanges. At this hesitant stage, tech-
nical judgments were bound to inter-
vene, though their ramifications are not
particularly obvious when it is observed
that UK gilt-edged were barely affected.
One further influence could well have
been Common Market hypnosis, which
is certain to play a bigger part in Lon-
don’s financial decisions. Indeed, this
country will be forced to examine very
carefully all its immediate prospects of
European (including UK) investment. In
this sense, BHP’s experience can be a
necessary pointer and warning.
SYDNEY GUARANTEE CORP.
£4m. DOWN THE DRAIN
YTnsecured creditors and depositors,
previously hoping against hope,
must face the worst from Sydney Guar-
antee Corporation Ltd. The joint liqui-
dators (Messrs D. G. Davidson and C.
A. Law), who have no money even to
permit their interim report to be printed
and mailed, believe “the vast funds
faithfully entrusted to this company by
members of the general public, appear
to have been lost.”
This melancholy position, not entirely
unexpected, has been reached by “a
combination of mismanagement, mis-
placed optimism and speculation.”


LEADING
SHARE
PRICES
r
Last
Div,
Div.
Earn.
Earn
Par
Sale,
1/6/62
Rate
Yield
Rate
Yield
Company
Value
1961
11/6/62
p.c.
p.c.
p.c.
p.c.
Amalgamated Chemicals ..
5/
14/3
18/6
17/11
1214
3.5
21.4
5.9
A.W.A
5/
20/4%
21/
20/4
14
3.4
22
5.4
Ampol
5/
11/4
12/
11/10
14
5.9
19
8.0
A.R.C
10
46/3
49/
48/6
15
3.1
29.7
6.1
Associated Pulp
20/
29/3
30/
30/11
—
—
13.6
8.8
Aust. Chemicals
10/
30/4 %
27/
25/9
1214
4.9
21.5
8.4
A.C.I.
• •
20/
72/6
70/6
68/6
8-1/3
2.4
19.3
7.3
Aust. Guarantee
5/
14/
12/8
12/6
15
6.0
20.3
8.1
Aust. Gypsum ,.
5/
14/3
15/9
15/9
10
3.2
14.9
4.7
A.P.M
..
20/
25/3
29/
29/
8
5.5
10
6.9
Bank N.S.W
• •
£20
£34
£ 42 V4
£41.14
9
4.3
12.2
5.9
Bitumen and Oil ..
.. •.
5/
24/
25/3
23/10
1714
3.7
32.4
7.5
Blue Metal Ind.
5/
22/714
23/6
23/4
15
3.2
27.6
6.0
Bradford Cotton
5/
7/6
7/1
7/1
10
7.1
11.2
7.8
British Tobacco
20/
25/
23/
22/6
9
8.1
9.7
8.8
B.H.P
• • • •
20/
69/
60/3
59/9
614
2.1
15.5
6.4
Burns Philp
20/
91/
£ 514
£6/3/6
10
1.8
12.4
2.2
C.S.R
£20 £ 59%
£55-5/8
£53
9
3.4
12.4
4.7
C.A.G.A
5/
11/3
11/4
11/3
10
4.4
12.3
5.5
C.I.G
.. • •
20/
£5
94/3
97/3t
20/6xR
11
2.3
25.2
5.2
Commercial Union
.. . •
5/
19/3
24/114
614
1.6
18.4
4.5
Concrete Ind
5/
15/114
15/3
14/8
10
3.4
16.6
5.7
Consolidated Zinc
25/
62/6
63/
62/3-J-
15
6.0
11.6
4.7
Cox Bros.
• •
5/
7/6
7/6
7/6
10
6.6
11.8
8.2
Custom Credit
5/
13/
12/
12/
15
6.3
19.5
8.2
Cyclone
5/
26/
20/814
22/
10
4.5
17.7
8.1
Dalgety-N.Z. Loan
25/
—
41/7141
41/4
8
4.9
13.9
8.1
David Jones
5/
18/9
18/3
18/3
1214
3.4
28.7
6.6
Drug Houses
20/
69/
69/
68/
1114
3.3
17.7
5.2
Dunlop Rubber
• •
20/
35/
40/
40/
10
5.0
16
8.0
Elder Smith ..
12/
23/9
25/
24/1014
10
4.8
12.6
6.0
Electronic “B”
10/
13/3
15/414
15/9
12%
8.0
—
Email
• •
5/
7/6
7/11
8/
10
6.3
11
5.9
E.Z. Ind.
10/
12/11
13/
12/8
10
7.9
12.4
9.8
Felt and Textiles ..
5/
6/11
7/6
7/8
10
6.6
13.9
9.3
G. J. Coles
5/
13/6
13/1
12/10
11
4.3
14.8
5.8
Goldsbrough .. ..
20/
28/6
31/1014
31/
8
5.1
12.6
8.1
H. C. Sleigh ..
• •
5/
11/
12/6
12/4
1214
5.1
13.4
5.6
Henry Jones ..
20/
80/
88/
86/6
10
2.3
28.6
6.6
H. G. Palmer ..
5/
15/6
17/8
17/
121/2
3.7
13.5
9.9
Howard Smith
• •
20/
54/
50/
47/714
10
4.2
13.6
5.7
Humes
• •
20/
70/6
76/
74/3
14
3.9
24.6
6.6
I.A.C. . . ,, ,,
5/
13/4
13/3
13/2t
16-2/3
6.3
20.6
7.8
20/
38/
41/6
40/6
7
3.5
9.7
4.8
J. Gadsden
Kandos Cement
10/
5/
15/3
18/6
22/3
18/6
21/9
8
121/2
4.3
2.9
10.4
13.5
5.6
3.1
5/
18/3
19/9
19/9
15
3.8
28.6
7.3
Lend Lease
L. J. Hooker
Mercantile Credits
McPhersons
Minster
Moulded Products
Mt. Isa Mines
Mutual Acceptance
Myer
National Consolidated
Olympic Industries
Peters (Vic.) ..
Petrochemical ..
R. M. Concrete
Reid Murray ..
Repco
.. ..
5/
5/
5/
20/
10/
5/
5/
5/
20/
7/
8/8
47/
62/
13/2
71/6
8/10
21/6
5/3
8/7
42/
78/
14/3
73/9
10/1
19/
5/2
8/9
41/
77/9
13/9
71/
10/2
10
10
8-1/3
20
14
25
15
2.6
5.7
4.0
2.7
5.1
1.8
7.3
21.4
1.1*
16.6
12.4
34.8
7.8
62.3
22.3
5.6
1.0
9.5
5.5
5.1
2.8
4.4
10.8
.. ..
5/
5/
5/
2/
20/
5/
5/
5/
29/
27/
7/7
8/6
26/
17/414
5/3
12/5
31/9
26/7
9/5
7/11
29/9
17/9
3/1114
14/
31/
26/6
9/5
7/8
28/6
17/4
4/
14/1
16-2/3
20
9
15
6
I21/2
10
2.7
3.7
4.7
4.0
4.2
3.6
3.5
28.3
35.3
16.2
18.9
5.9
22.9
9.4
17.8
4.9
6.6
9.5
5.1
4.2
6.6
12.2
6.3
• • • •
5/
15/9
20/
20/6
10
2.4
71.7
17.5
87/6
73/
73/3
171/2
4.7
47.7
13.0
Tooth
• • •.
5/
13/
11/
10/7
121/2
5.9
14.4
5.0
Union Carbide
20/
5/
5/
60/
80/
67/
70/
66/9
68/
131/2
10
4.1
3.0
15.9
15.9
4.8
4.7
Woolworths
13/8
13/11
13/10
121/2
4.5
19.7
7.1
Wormald
15/4
16/3
16/1
12
3.7
15.4
4.8
W. R. Carpenter .. . . 5/
♦Estimated on last half-year’s profit.
xR Ex Rights v
11/10
30/
12/
34/6
11/9
33/6
10
15
4.2
2.2
14.2
35.1
6.6
5.2
1 Mid-price.
SYDNEY
STOCK EXCHANGE
INDICES
Banks, Other
etc. Finance
Pastoral
Retailers
Base
Metals
All
Ords. *
Industrials
December 22, 1961
June 1, 1962 ..
June 5, 1962 ..
June 6, 1962 ..
June 7, 1962 ..
June 8, 1962 ..
June 11, 1962 ..
•• 137.37 541.02 182.31
•• 165.92 568.34 181.80
.. 166.12 563.64 182.13
.. 155.21 561.54 181.91
.. 165.06 556.88 180.96
.. 164.75 557.16 180.62
.. 164.39 560.89 178.52
* Peak 348.46 September 16,
389.15
381.57
379.62
374.19
374.38
375.62
374.83
1960.
604.15
589.94
590.53
588.52
582.40
577.62
572.36
299 07
302163
301.83
298.59
297.59
297.92
297.95
318.74
317.12
316.46
313.03
311.79
312.21
312.45
MELBOURNE STOCK EXCHANGE
AVERAGE YIELD ON 100 ORDINARY SHARES
—> SO T.eorfino- 50 otl:ier Stocks—
-Random-^
December 22, 1961
June 1, 1962
June 5, 1962
June 6, 1962
June 7, 1962 ..
June 8, 1962
June 11, 1962
Div. Yield Earn. Yield '
4-30 6.25
4.29 6.24
Sample
Div. Yield Earn. Yield
5.30 7.46
5.15 2.00
5.16 2.04
5.18 2.06
517 1.99
521 1.85
5.21 1.90
SHAREMARKET SUMMARY
sharemarket’s dead-and-alive
posture on Monday did little but
keep prices generally at the previous
week’s final levels. Not very much
encouragement could be taken from this
situation, since few signs of possible
advance revealed themselves. Certainly
many shares have posted trifling rises
after the past three weeks’ upheavals and
the market has not really been shaken
technically.
Yet it has been rather intimidating to
observe practically all leaders in uniform
retreat, creating a lack of normal guid-
ance from major stocks. And though
ranges seem fairly well held, suggesting a
diverse curiosity, turnovers are becoming
more variable.
In a week which saw British Tobacco,
BHP, Burns Philp, CSR, Henry Jones,
ICI and Tooth all fall back, it seemed
almost a healthy sign that BHP, for one,
was not unduly influenced by the Lon-
don debenture failure.
There is plenty of talk about the bar-
gains to be had among the second-liners.
These clear opportunities are not genera-
ting much pressure. This could arrive. It
is on the old, extreme selection among
the industrials that the hopes of the
market may rest. Perhaps not much can
be expected at this dubious season of the
year. If so, we are in for some drab pre-
Budget trading.
Meanwhile floods of analysis from the
overseas exchanges continue to pour in.
Their disturbances constitute a prevalent
and not entirely necessary brake upon
local activities. One cannot, however,
gainsay foreign uncertainties when they
have reached the present pitch. When
Mr Walter Lippmann starts talking about
American stagnation, with all its implica-
tions, many people listen.
ICIANZ
CHEERING PROFIT LIFT
A better half-year’s result from
Imperial Chemical Industries of
Aust. and NZ Ltd can give cheer to
investors and may also indicate a more
heartening picture of the industry
generally. For chemicals were assuredly
a sore spot in the arrest of the boom.
ICIANZ suffered heavily during 1960-
61. Now directors come out with a 7.8
p.c. profit lift for the six months to
March 31 a rise of £104,000 to
£1,427,000. Sales benefited by £l.sm.
to reach £32.5m.
The advances do not look particularly
dramatic, especially as they include
earnings from the acquisition, Com-
monwealth Fertilisers and Chemicals,
and aid from emergency tariff protection
on some “important products”. Yet
maintenance of the trend is expected.


DIVIDEND DECLARATIONS
WEEK -ENDED
JUNE 11.
Rate for
1962
Books
Company
Div. p.c
Year-
Last Year
Close
Payable
A. G. Healmg Ltd int.'
' ' V/i ■
—
7 Vs, 7 V 2
.18/6 62
1/7/62
Aust. Consolidated Press Ltd, int. qtr
2nd pref.
' '1%
1%, l'%, 1 3 /8
22,2 62
2 7/62
Bavley and Grimstsr Ltd, year
5
5
20/6/62
29 6/6"
Brisbane Theatres Ltd, int.
2>/ z
2Vs, 2Vs
20/7/62
26/7/62
Campbell Bros. Ltd, int
4
4, 4
1/7/62
Elder, Smith a:‘d Co. Ltd. final
6
10
4. 6
_
1/10/62
Federal Hotels Ltd, final pref
4y 2
9
25/6/62
29/6/62
Hawkes Bros. Ltd, int. pref. . .
2 Vs
—
2V 2 , 2V 2
20/6 62
30 6 62
Flower, Davies and Johnson Ltd, int.
5
5, 11-2/3
4/7 62
18/7/62
Lombard Aust. Ltd, int. pref.
3 Vs
.
3>/ 2 , 3 Vs
14/6/62
—
Mauri Bros and Thomson
Ltd, final “A” pref.
4 Vs
9
4Vs, 4Vs
6/7/62
16/7/62
do., final “B” pref.
5
10
5, 5
6/7. 62
16/7/62
Mayne N-.ckless Ltd, final pref. ..
3 Vi
6 Vs
3Vi, 3'A
17/7/62
31/7/62
Metropolitan Dairies (Hldgs.) Ltd,
final pref
3
6
3, 3
19/6 62
30 6/62
Mount Morgan Ltd, int. pref
3 Vs
3Vs, 3Vs
22 6/62
30/6/62
Myer Emporium Ltd, final pref. .
4>/ 2
9
29 6/62
19/7/62
New Redhead Estate and Coal Co.
Ltd, int. . .
6-2/3
6-23, 6-2/3
19/6,62
28, 6/62
Oliver-Davey Glass Industries Ltd,
final
5
10
5. 5
25 6/62
10/7/62
Queensland Insurance Co. Ltd. int. ..
6 Vi
—
6V4, ny 4
7/6/62
27 6/62
Taubmans Industries Ltd, final
pref. . . ....
2 y 2
2Vs, 2Vs
26 6/62
2/7/62
Television Corporation Ltd. final ..
10
20
10, 10
18/6/62
30/6/62
Tweedside Mfg. Co. Ltd, int. ord. ..
3 Vs
—
t
20/6/62
28 6 62
do., int. pref. .
3 Vs
—
3y 2 , 3y 2
20/6, 62
28 6 62
Union Theatres Investments Ltd,
final pref.
3
6
3, 3
21/6/62
6/7/62
Varley Dry Accumulators lAust.) Ltd,
int.
5
5, 5
18/6/62
22 6/62
Warrnambool Woollen Mill Co.
Ltd, int. ord.
4
3, 5
19/6 62
3/7/62
do., int. pref
4
—
3, 5
19/6, 62
3/7/62
W. A. Trustees, Executors and Agency
Co. Ltd. final
6
11
5, 5
21/6/62
6/7 62
Wormald Bros. Industries Ltd, final
pref
2 Vs
5
2y 2 , 2Vs
20/6, 62
29/6/62
COMPANY
RESULTS
Year
Shares—
Company
Ended
Profit
Tax
Deprecia-
Earning
Old.
Par
Last Sale
Div.
£
£
tion
Rate
Div.
Value
Price
Yield
£
p.c.
p.c.
p.c.
Bayley and Grimster
31/3/62
9.355
7,600
5,305
8.5
5
10/
5/6
9.1
Thos. Brown
31/1/62
43,049
n/a
n/a
n/a
7.9
25/
25/
6.3
South Aust. Brewing
Co
28/2/62
441,211
n/a
n/a
9.4
8%
5/
13/9
3.2
A. L NEVITT. DRAPER & CO,
A. L NEVITT. A. C. DRAPER.
N. W C. DRAPER
(Members 01 Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor.
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street. Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone. 31 -2761 P.O BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887YV
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH.
2 Denham Street. Phone 6089
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members ol the Sydney Stock Exchange
Delfin House,
16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building,
150 Queen St., Melbourne
67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables:
“Rosdale”. Sydney, Melbourne
or Wollongong.
John N. Robertson, Thompson
and Co.
Members of tli3 Stock Exchange ot
Melbourne
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
423 Little Collins Street
Melbourne, C.l.
Telephones: 67-6154, 67-6155
Telegrams and Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHAKE BROKERS
Sixth Floor,
56 Hunter Street, Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Telephone: BW 5721.
Telegrams and Cables:
“LAGRAM,” Sydney.
RALPH W. KING & YUELL
Members of Sydney Stock Exchange
W. Keith Yuill—Keith C. Phillips
lan C. Walton—Gordon G. Ring
Walter I. Summons
William S. Shugg
(non-member partner )
33 BLIGH STREET. 2 0137
84 William St., Melb. 67 5089
340 Queen St., Brisbane. 31 2191
Telegrams and Cables “Ralphking”
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane
Grafton, Tamworth and Armidale
LIFE SAYERS MAKE A BID
VlfiTH freely spending consumers almost
ready to take full wing again, future
moves among chocolate makers could
rival the soft-drinks battles of a year or
so ago. ife avers (Asia) has empha-
sised its interest in this side of the sweets
industry by the bid for Smalls Chocolate
Holdings, for the new offer comes only
18 months after absorption of the
Mastercraft group.
Life Savers can certainly deploy a
sizable market premium in these forays.
Smalls’ shareholders are to get eight ss.
shares for every 21 ss. shares they now
hold a bid worth 15s. sd. a Smalls’
share at a 40s. 6d. level for Life Savers.
The whole takeover would be worth
£1,684,000 on complete acceptance.
ihe larger and famous names
Nestles, Cadbury’s, Macßobertson
must be keeping a careful eye on their
juniors’ expansion. A reasonably stable
cost situation, especially of main ingre-
dients, has given the industry a pros-
perous air.
LEND LEASE WINS AWARD
T end lease corporation ltd has won
the award for the best annual report
0 f 1961. The award carries a trophy
anc ] h as been instituted by the Australian
Institute of Management to support the
, ~ ... , ... ,
dissemination and presentation of
financial mformat ' on ' Stock Exchanges
*he con duct of the competition.
This is Lend Lease’s first win. Two
other recent winners, Ansett Transport
Industries (1958 and 1959) and H. C.
Sleigh Ltd (1960) are again commended,
The award was established by the in-
stitute in 1950. All reports “of distinc-
tion” mentioned by the judges secure
special certificates.
A great improvement in company re-
porting has been very noticeable through-
out Australia in recent years. Much of
this stems from the AlM’s efforts. Now
that pending promulgation of the Corn-
panies Acts brings properly consolidated
accounts in our grasp, further delights
and details are awaited.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Imorporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£A363,000,000
*
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
STOCK OPTIONS
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
Suite 1, Sixth Floor, Temple Court
422 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Phone 67-8011
BRANCH OFFICES
Sydney: 383 George Street, 29-7865.
Adelaide: 61 Gawler Place, 7-8407.
Brisbane: 334 Queen Street, 31-1621.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
All Offices: “Options”
Write or Phone for Free Brochure
and Current Price Schedule.
FOR CALL OPTIONS
CALL STOCK OPTIONS
SPECULATOR'S DIARY
Monday, June 11
T ike one of Damon Runyon’s crap
shooters, I crave action. But the only
action I could find during the last lack-
lustre week turned out both sweet and
sour. The appearance last Tuesday of an
unidentified bidder for Smalls Chocolates
set me licking my chops. Here was some-
thing for men! I asked my broker to
buy 600 at best.
Next day I noticed enviously that
someone had obtained 1800 Smalls at
10s. 3d. and 10s. 6d., but it was not
until the next day that my broker was
successful at 14s. 3d. —no bargain but
surely good for something, I thought.
Imagine my distaste when two days later
the bidder was introduced as the nigh
unbeatable Life Savers —and the offer on
current prices around 40s. 6d. for Life
Savers’ ss. shares was worth only 15s.
sd. a share. It would be a game com-
pany indeed that would attempt to out-
bid Life Savers with its eight times par
share premium.
The Smalls purchase, temporary
though it may be, did nothing to alleviate
my private credit squeeze. The position
was aggravated when I noticed that my
old favorites Beau Monde suffered a run
from 325. 6d. to 30s. in Melbourne
during the week. The company reported
higher profits for the six months to
December, raised the dividend from a
12 to a 13 per cent, rate, and spoke of
“particularly heavy forward orders.” But
what decided me to add another 100 to
my' holding was the fine annual report
by Prestige last week.
This rival stocking maker lifted profit
by 28 per cent, for the year ended March
—surely a practical demonstration that
the good retail figures for hosiery mean
something. The result was achieved
despite no profit at all from Australian
operations for the first half of Prestige’s
year, a half which covers only a quarter
of Beau Monde’s year. I feel that Beau
Monde could have an even better year
than Prestige, and the shares look good
for a price jump when the result for the
year is announced in a few months.
After this purchase, my total indebted-
ness would have been an astronomical
£ll4B had I not decided to bid a sad
farewell to my 200 Hunter Douglas con-
vertible notes. This group still has all
the attributes that attracted me (profit-
ably) to it but there should be no sur-
prises, good or bad, about this year’s
result.
I also decided to sell one of my most
recent buys, the oil filter maker G.U.D.
Holdings. I still am no wiser about what
the initials G.U.D. mean, but I noticed
during the week that the shares had risen
to 265. 6d. —the highest point since 1960.
So I took advantage of the price rise
and let my 400 shares go at 265. for a
profit, in one month, of <£42.
The week’s transactions were:
BOUGHT
600 Smalls Chocolates at 14/- .... £435
100 Beau Monde at 30/- £153
SOLD
200 Hunter Douglas notes
at 42/6 £419
400 G.U.D. Holdings at 26/- £512
This left me a comparatively modest
£217 in debt and holding:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date per rent
shares company bought share price
400 O’Donnell
Griffin 28/8/61 11/8 17/3
1,600 United Motels 20/11/61 3/9 4/4
1,000 Harris Holding 5/12/61 7/- 8/-
300 Beau Monde 8/12/61 26/8 30/-
400 W. J. Manufac-
turing 24/1/62 11/9 13/-
400 Auto and Gen-
eral Finance 8/2/62 19 9 22/9
500 Mauri Bros 16/2/62 22/9 24/-
400 Anderson Meat 2/3/62 12/- 12/6
100 Philip Morris 16/3/62 2-6/- 25/-
800 Goodwins 21/3 62 5/9 6/4
500 Peter Lloyd 21/3/52 5/6 5/8
500 Ready Mixed 6/4/62 17/9 17/3
25 MLC 27 4/62 £l9/10/- £2314
200 Malleys 3/5/62 20/3 22/9
50-0 Merica 10/5/62 7/- 7/6
400 Swan Brewery 17/5/62 19/6 18/6
25 Choiseul 24/5/62 £ll £ll%
1,000 Hanimex 23/5/62 4/11 5/2
300 National Consol. 30/5/62 26/1 26/6
800 Discount Facilit. 30/5/62 5/9 6/-
600 Smalls Chocs. 6/6/62 14/- 14/6
ONE TO BUY
/Concrete Industries (Australia) Ltd
presents this week’s bargain buy. But
intending purchasers cannot afford to
dally. At 14s. Bd. the ss. shares yield 3.4
p.c., and represent the cheapest entry
this calendar year. (They have been as
high as 17s. 4 id.)
The Monier group is the largest pro-
ducer of concrete products in Australia.
Directors reminded shareholders early
this month that activities are widely
diversified, and do not relate solely to
the building industry.
In the year to June 30, 1961, the com-
pany earned 16.7 p.c. on capital, and
paid lli p.c. Profit records are set each
year between 1960 and 1961 profit
doubled. Interim dividend paid in Feb-
ruary was at the 10 p.c. annual rate pre-
dicted after the one-for-three bonus and
one-for-four par issue of 1961.
Turnover in the first nine months of
this year has been far greater than in
the previous period. Profit for the year is
expected to be about the same as last
year.
Earning rate will obviously be lower
this year, but the company has always
played fair with its shareholders, and
the 10 p.c. dividend looks in no danger.


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
QUEENSLAND
RECORD CANE CROP EXPECTED
By BODILA
/Tane farmers and millers in Queensland
are preparing for a record harvest.
Now that the cyclone season has passed
without any adverse effects, and seasonal
conditions have been favorable to heavy
growth of cane standing erect, an official
forecast places the expected crop this
year at 10.7 m. tons. The Queens-
land Sugar Board, too, has announced
that it will acquire mill peaks plus 15
p.c. and there is a chance that it will
take even more.
The sugar industry holds pride of place
amongst the primary industries of
Queensland, its annual production having
increased from £24 m. in 1951 to
over £64 m. in 1960, and its export-
able surplus from 157,000 tons valued at
£5.9 m. to 823,000 tons valued at
£33 m. in the same period. The
tonnage of cane harvested annually in
Queensland had risen from 5 m. tons
to 9 m. tons in the last ten years.
The sugar industry provides direct
employment for some 30,000 people on
the farms and in the mills of the State,
and it is estimated that about 350,000
people are dependent almost entirely
on it.
The value of Queensland cane farms
as going concerns, and investment in
mills and refineries would be approxi-
mately £l7O m.
The Queensland sugar industry has be-
come highly mechanised in recent years,
as is shown by the fact that 18,442
tractors (35.6 p.c. of the total number of
tractors in the State) operate on 7600
cane farms.
The canes grown in Queensland have
the highest sugar content in the world,
so that it takes less than seven tons of
cane to make one ton of raw sugar.
About 85 per cent of the crop harvested
annually is produced from cane varieties
bred in the State.
1 he harvest of the cane crop is a time
of great activity. The mills crush cane
24 hours a day five days a week. Each
year, about 7500 cane cutters, in addition
to those farmers who cut their own cane,
are engaged in harvesting the crop from
early in June to December. The average
cutter, usually a seasonal worker, earns
about <£looo for the season, so that the
wages bill runs into about £7.5 mill.
The dream of mechanical cane harvest-
ing has exercised the minds of inventors
in Australia since 1890. Since 1950 the
tempo of invention has accelerated, but
it was not until 1959 that any exciting
developments occurred. When cutters
are relieved of the work of loading the
cane, they can cut a much higher ton-
nage, and cutters are paid a contract rate
based on their output. A specially
adapted front-end loader with hydraulic
equipment is now used. Mechanical
loading did not flourish until 1956 when
2.6 m. tons (28.9 p.c. of the crop) were
loaded in this manner. In 1961, 4,634,114
tons (51.4 p.c.) were mechanically loaded.
The mechanical cutting of cane, how-
ever, has been a more difficult problem.
The harvesting of erect cane presents
little or no mechanical problems. In the
case of cane that is not erect mechanical
cutting is difficult. In the last few years,
one of Australia’s major tractor compa-
nies has spent much money in building
a revolutionary type of harvester called
a “chopper harvester.” This chops the
cane into short lengths and immediately
loads it into bins mounted on trailers. In
1957 1.2 p.c. of the crop was mecha-
nically harvested, and in the 1961 season
the proportion had increased to 5.4 p.c.
Although there will be an increase in
the number of mechanical harvesters
in the coming season, it is expected that
well over 90 per cent, of the crop will
be manually harvested.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
THE BIG LEAP FORWARD
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
VI/'estern Australia’s big leap forward
" in agricultural production has been
proceeding quietly since World War II
and is beginning to show up in the
statistics. It has been highlighted by
speculation that WA farmers might plant
close to a 5,000,000-acre wheat crop in
the corning season.
Australian Wheat Board member
D. W. Maisey said everything pointed to
an acreage much bigger than last year’s
record 4,250,000 acres. There was a
general feeling of confidence among
growers, thanks to the opening of
valuable new markets in Asia and par-
ticularly China, considerable increases in
export prices and the coverage of the
season’s crop by the current stabilisation
plan.
If the expected increase comes about,
WA will become a bigger wheat planter
than the traditionally biggest wheat
state of NSW. Though total production
in the west is still smaller because of
lower yields there are indications that it
will eventually catch and pass its eastern
neighbors as a wheat producer. This is
good news indeed for WA farmers, who
have battled with poor soil, isolation and
recurring market crises since Thomas
Peel brought the first settlers to the
colony in 1831.
Wheat is not the only produce to
show a. dramatic increase in the last
10 years. Wool production increased by
85 p.c. compared with 45 p.c. for the
whole of Australia, lamb and mutton by
100 per cent., and beef by 63 p.c. Milk
was the only primary commodity not to
show a sizeable increase.
This percentage growth is likely to
become even greater as the south coast
land boom adds about 5,000,000 acres
to the land under production. The State
Government has been throwing open
land at the rate of 750,000 acres a year
for the last three years and the American-
backed Development Co. is
tackling a 1,500,000 acre development
project to mature in 1974.
The primary production increase has
been so strong that it has pulled back
the percentage of secondary industry in
the State's economy by two p.c. in
the last three years, despite a large in-
crease in factory production. Under
these circumstances, it is unlikely that
secondary industry will catch up with
the farmers in total production for quite
a few years. This may be a blow to
those who want to turn the State into
an industrialised community, but it will
be no bad thing for the economy.
WA is already a bigger export earner
per head of population than any other
State, with primary products making up
about 80 p.c. of the State’s overseas
exports in the last financial year. It
looks like depending on its primary
producers for some years to come.


SYDNEY
GREASY
WOOL
FUTURES
EXCHANGE
SUMMARY
WEEK
ENDING
JUNE 8,
1962
Basis Greasy Equivalent 3,000 lbs.
Clean Weight C.W.C.
Type 78.
Highest/Lowest Price Paid
(Pence
per lb.)
, Turnover
f-~- —May 25
Week
Ended
Week
Month
Closing
8/6/62
, To Date .
Ended
To
Seller
Buyer
High
Low
High
Low
8/6/62
Date
July, 1962
11514
11514
115%
114%
116%
101
71
5,916
September, 1962
111%
11114
111%
111%
116%
103%
45
1,822
October, 1962
10914
10914
10914
109
116%
104
61
5,091
December, 1962
10814
108 y 4
10814
107%
113
103%
100
3,827
January, 1963
108
107%
108
10714
11214
103%
33
643
March, 1963
107%
10714
10714
10714
110%
104
41
1,149
May, 1963
107%
10714
107%
107'A
110
104
24
900
July, 1963
107%
10714
10714
10714
110
105
62
703
September, 1963
10714
107
107
107
109%
106%
3
68
October, 1963
10714
107
107
107
10914
10614
4
317
December, 1963
107
Traded
107
106%
107
106%
9
12
TOTAL NUMBER OF CONTRACTS
453
64,885
EXCHANGE
RATES (T/T)
LONDON
ITALY
£A to £stg 100
NEW ZEALAND
125
Lire to £A 1
JAPAN
1402
£A to £NZ
USA
$1 to £ A 1
BELGIUM
Francs to £A
FT? ANf!E
100
.. 124
Yen to £ A 1
. 817.20
WEST GERMANY
1
.. 2.2477
.. 112.44
DM to £ A 1
SWITZERLAND
Francs to £A 1
9.022
9.726
New francs to
£ A 1 ..
.. 11.058
HONG KONG
Pence Australian to $ HK .
. 18 9/16
SYDNEY SHEEP SHOW
TRIBUTE TO BREEDERS
sheep breeders of Australia have
played a tremendous part in the
development of the wool industry and
have every reason to be proud of their
efforts.
In 1940-41 the average cut per sheep
was just under 9 lb. Today it is 10.31
lb. —an increase in cut per head of 14
p.c. Credit must be given to the studs,
both merino, Australian and British
breeds. Through the same period pro-
duction of wool has increased by 41 p.c.
—a major achievement for any industry.
During 20 years a tremendous develop-
ment has occurred in the whole of the
Australian economy. Both secondary
and primary industries have made great
progress, but throughout this period the
wool industry in Australia has main-
tained its position. It is still responsible
for approximately 40 p.c. of Australia’s
export income.
This was the theme of an address by
Sir William Gunn, chairman of the Aus-
tralian Wool Bureau, in opening the
Sydney Sheep Show last week. Aus-
tralia could not possibly have achieved
this economic progress had it not been
for the stud breeders.
“Since the end of the Second World
War,” he said, “we have experienced a
period of reasonable prosperity in most
of our primary industries. As far as the
wool industry is concerned, we have
maintained the quality of our product
and we have reasonably been able to
absorb the increased costs imposed on us.
But countries which come here to buy
wool are not very interested in what it
costs to produce our product. They will
buy at a price which compares with that
of other fibres.
“Therefore I am convinced beyond
any shadow of doubt that in the years
ahead we must concentrate all our
activities on improving our productivity.
I recently studied figures of individual
woolgrowers in Australia, and it is
significant that those who have been
able to increase the cut per head have
been able to maintain their profitability.
Those who did not improve the cut per
head have fallen behind.
“We must, I believe, give tremendous
attention in the years immediately ahead
to our production potential, and in this
field the sheepbreeders are going to con-
tribute an enormous amount.
“This industry has been one that, over
the years, has not called on the Govern-
ment for support—it is an industry that
has stood firmly on its own feet. How-
ever, over the last 12 months it has been
suggested that this industry be subsidised
by the taxpayer. I hope it will never be
subsidised in this country, for the in-
dustry which supports all Other industries
cannot afford to be subsidised.”
WOOL
SHEARING LOSSES LESSON
Qtriking evidence of losses which occur
through faulty shearing was provided
in demonstrations at the Sydney Sheep
Show last week. The losses amounted
to: —
® Bd. to lOd. a fleece to the wool-
grower;
® 30 seconds in time to the shearer.
Australian shearing champion Kevin
Sarre deliberately shore a sheep badly,
second cutting the fleece wool. The loss
in value of the second cuts, which would
have been 58d. a lb. fleece wool had the
sheep been shorn properly, showed
clearly that bad shearing affects the
pockets of the woolgrower and the
shearer.
But Sarre also demonstrated how a
sheep should be shorn, and his shearing
speed and cleanness, to large groups who
inspected the clip preparation exhibit.
When he is not shearing in sheds, or com-
petitively, Sarre tours Australia exten-
sively for the Australian Wool Bureau
helping to demonstrate correct shearing
methods.
FENCING COSTS
CHEAPER METHOD CLAIM
Oavings effected by new fencing
methods are being demonstrated by
Mr R. L. Piesse, of Melbourne, an autho-
rity on fencing, during a comprehensive
tour of 35 rural centres in NSW, Victoria
and SA. When Mr Piesse recently visited
Horsham (Vic.), about 200 Wimmera
landowners and students from Longere-
nong Agricultural College and district
schools attended his field day on a local
property to see him prove his claim that
outdated methods and materials were
costing £l5O a mile more than the
durable fences erected by his method.
Mr Piesse achieves this saving by
using lighter and stronger wire, lighter
droppers, fewer and much smaller posts,
with metal anchoring and keeping-up
devices replacing posts wherever possible.
These quickly-erected fences save man-
hours as well as materials.
Mr Piesse estimates that his methods
and materials could reduce Australia’s
annual fencing costs by £4O m. and the
saving could be applied to developing
farm productivity.
Mr Piesse also demonstrated how his
method of continuous straining of a
fabricated fence gives strength and ser-
viceability, even though a minimum of
posts is used.
MARIEL LEE


REVIEWS
FILMS
BACK TO CHILDHOOD
By MARTIN LONG
The Ninth Sydney Film Festival. Syd-
ney University.
'VTeteran festival-goers at the Ninth
' Sydney Film Festival complained
that the standard of films was not as
good as it used to be. This is standard
practice; nobody ever did think that
things were as good as they used to be.
In the case of the Film Festival there is
some truth in it, though that reflects no
discredit on the Festival organisers.
In the days of the first few festivals
good foreign-language were rarer in the
commercial cinemas and there was a
large backlog of outstanding films of past
years that had never been seen here.
Now that backlog has been consumed,
and the Festival programme is mainly
confined to the world film product of the
last year or so, which is as it should be.
At the same time the Festival is under
stronger competition from the commer-
cial importers in bidding for new films.
For example, the much-talked-of “Last
Year in Marienbad”, which was to have
been the star film of this Festival, had
to be dropped because it had been
“bagged” by a commercial distributor and
was no longer available at the special
rate for non-public screening.
If the evidence of this year’s Festival
is to be relied on the trend is away from
self-conscious technical experiment and
towards a greater humanity, expressed
most often in the exploration of the
world of the child. It is a trend one
can’t help applauding; the lesson re-
peated over and over in this Festival
was that the best films are those that
touch the heart rather than those that
merely excite the eye.
The fascination that children seem to
have for the modern film maker was
probably the most striking feature of the
Festival. It found its most subtle and
thoughtful expression in the Dutch film
“The Knife”, in which director Fons
Rademakers gives a penetrating study of
the adjustment of a sensitive boy to his
mother’s remarriage. The film has been
justly compared with Truffaut’s “The 400
Blows”, the film that probably started this
back-to-childhood movement.
In the strongest contrast to this
sophisticated piece was a simple but
touching Russian film about childhood,
“Seryozha” similarly involving though in
a far more dewy-eyed manner, the
relationship between a small boy and his
new stepfather. Despite a lapse into easy
tear-jerking at the end, it was one of the
most unpretentiously successful films.
In contrast again was a flawed but
often charming film about childhood
from America, “The Sand Castle”. Made
on a shoestring budget by an independent
writer-director, Jerome Hill, it is a plot-
less account of a small boy's play on the
beach and the reactions to it of other
children and adults. It has some delight-
ful touches of humor and character, but
like so many films lacking the formal
discipline of a plot it leaves too much in.
THhe fourth compass-point in this journey
■’*- into childhood was provided by
Indian Satyajit Ray’s “The Postmaster”,
a gently compassionate little story about
the attachment between an orphan girl
and an educated postmaster in a back-
ward Bengal village. Ray’s profound
humanity and shrewd sense oi character
showed again in the companion piece to
this short film, “Samapti”.
This by no means exhausts the list of
films about youth and childhood.
“Yanco”, from Mexico, was a stylish and
unusual piece about a peasant boy’s
obsession with an old fiddler and his
music. I failed to catch yet another film
about step-children, the Georgian “An-
other Woman’s Children”. The child-
hood theme was carried on in some of
the finest of the short films: in the French
“Les Enfants des Courants d’Air”, the
English “A Yard of My Own to Play In”
and the utterly delightful French cartoon
film, “The Bird Made of Newspaper”.
For me, the disappointments of the
Festival programme were the two films
that had had most advance praise:
Jean Renoir’s 23-year-old “La Regie du
Jeu” and the Japanese “The Island”.
“La Regie du Jeu” has had a strange
history. Made just before the last war
as a satire on French upper-class morals,
it met savage opposition and was banned
by both French authorities during the
war, even after Renoir himself had dras-
tically cut it. In the last year or so it
has been reconstructed from the original
in accordance with Renoir’s own notes.
Seen today it seems a bafflingly un-
even film, a strange, disturbing, some-
times brilliant mixture of artificiality and
pathos, farce and tragedy. Its violent
shifts of mood and style make it hard to
attach any reality to its cast of philan-
dering house-party guests and the final
tragedy comes with a shock of embar-
rassment rather than pity.
The other much-talked-of film in which
I failed to find reality was ‘The Island”.
This Japanese film, beautifully photo-
graphed in black-and-white Cinema Scope,
is a study of the agonising struggles of
a peasant family to wrest a living from a
waterless island. It uses no dialogue or
captions, but relies on constantly (indeed,
excessively) repeated images to convey
the sense of endless struggle and drud-
gery. The wordless techniques is an inter-
esting experiment, but it tends to make
the characters remote and unreal, and
compared with the glowing warmth and
humanity of the Ray films, for example,
this seems cold and posed. There are,
too, glaring inconsistencies in the story
that make one wonder if this is even
superficially a true picture of the life it
claims to represent.
The wordlessness of this film, inciden-
tally, illustrates another Festival “trend”,
shown mainly in short films, towards dis-
pensing with dialogue and commentary
altogether and relying on images and
music alone to jump the language barrier.
It has long been recognised that economy
of words is a prime virtue in documen-
tary film making, but nowadays at
least among the kind of short films that
find their way into festivals —the word-
less film seems the rule rather than
otherwise. Examples are too numerous
to list: it is easier to mention a glaring
exception, the painfully obvious Austra-
lian-made documentary “Gateway to a
City”, which adds to a gloomy list of
demerits a continuous and largely super-
fluous commentary.
It is pleasanter to record that there
were also some Australian-made films
that would stand up well against any
competition, notably Jennie Blackwood’s
“Anzac”, Brett Porter’s satirical (and
wordless!) miniature, “Conference
Room” and Dusan Marek’s imaginative
drawn-film “Nursery Rhymes”.


TV
THE AUTHENTIC TOUCH
|T|ne of the great mysteries of television
is the continued yearning of the
ABN-2 dramatists to set themselves up as
teachers of Australian History. As with
the absurd “Outcasts” the latest effort of
ABN Channel 2, “The Patriots”, has been
issued with the certificate that the author,
Mr Philip Mann, and the producer, Mr
Dean, have made most earnest studies of
the times and characters of the play with
a view to making them “authentic” in pre-
sentation. It is certainly not “authentic”
in detail or as history, and I for one am
glad that it is not, nor do I understand
why it should be.
I don’t like the habit of the officials in
“The Patriots” who tend to excuse Mr
W. C. Wentworth’s noisy and sometimes
outrageous conduct by the fact that he is
young and enthusiastic. He was rising 37,
middle aged according to the conven-
tions of a period in which the expecta-
tion of life was in the order of 50 years.
I sympathise with Governor Darling
in his failure to immediately concede Mr
Wentworth’s demand for responsible
Government, although obviously Mr
Mann thinks he is a bit of a brute for
it, apart from the fact that he seems to
be presented as a natural one, which he
certainly wasn’t.
The population of New South Wales
in the year of “The Patriots” was round
26,000, half convicts under sentence.
More than 2000 of the other half were
transient and military, the rest mostly
civil servants (who could have had no
vote) and emancipist men, women and
children. I doubt whether, on the then
existing English franchise—especially in
view of the scattered nature of the popu-
lation and the absence of ballot, much less
absent, voting—soo electors could have
been mustered to elect the parliament.
So I cannot understand why Mr Went-
worth should have been given a Parlia-
ment just then any more than why it
should appear that he has been asked
(and refused) to join the Executive
Council, a civil service body consisting of
the Governor, Lieutenant-Governor,
Chief Justice and Archdeacon. However,
I like Mr Wentworth better as the dark
well-tailored stripling full of “oomph” and
“it” as presented by the ABN-2 than as
the untidy, unkempt 37-year-old giant
who often did not have his hair cut for
six weeks, who was real. And I am sure
that it is much better than his milliner-
blacksmith’s daughter sweetie should
speak lofty political sentiments with the
accents of the president of the senior de-
bating society at Frensham than that she
should offend our ears with her own rude
authentic Botany Bay Doric.
“The Patriots” is good clean fun for
those who like goodies-and-baddies his-
torical westerns done after the blood-and-
thunder in which manner Alfred Dampier
would have done them if TV had existed
in his time and he had won Tattersall’s.
Moreover the series is a kind of drama
that is easy on the playwright. I intend
to write a period piece like it about the
year 2060, if hormones keep me going
that long. It will be called “The Old Age
Pensioner”. The historical facts and dia-
logue will be taken out of Hansard reports
of speeches by Messrs Leslie Haylen and
Eddie Ward delivered on a vote of no
confidence in the Menzies’ Government
for having failed to raise the Old Age
Pension to £25 a week plus free A.J.C.
tickets. The figures will be dressed as
exact replicas of some of David Jones's
tailors’ dummies then in the Museum.
Mr Menzies I will make up from Dobell’s
well authenticated portrait of him. Having
discovered by research that he is a Privy
Councillor and is a Companion of Honor,
I will make him appear in every scene
with cocked hat, silk stockings, sword
and decoration. And I will lend a further
touch of authenticity to him and show
that I know about his experience in
cricket by making him pause in his great
speech advocating starvation for the old
to ask the Clerk of the House: “Has Bert
Oldfield scored 300 yet?” In fact, I will
see that in all things there is something
to authenticate costumes, play and plot:
just like ABN-2.
M. H. ELLIS
LOOK HOMEWARD PIGEON
A cting for radio was a full-time job,
and being completely at ease in their
work, the actors could more readily lift
their talent in an hour play. This is not
so in television. Production costs are too
great. There are no everlasting serials to
provide steady income and rapidly
accumulated experience in the medium.
The players in Australian-produced tele-
vision drama are therefore ill at ease,
or inept, or wooden. The results make
horrible viewing, unless we regard them
less than seriously.
It is the only possible way to look at
such a production as “The Suspect”, 90
minutes of lunacy released as a General
Motors Hour of Drama, directed by lan
Jones, adapted and produced by Peter
Cotes, and starring his wife Joan Miller
who “repeats the part she played on BBC
television a few years back”.
Their plot was madly dramatic. Thirty
years after chopping up her momma and
poppa, in Scotland not Massachusetts,
Mrs Smith nee Maggie Wishart is about
to lose her only son in marriage to a
doctor’s daughter. Enter a Press mag-
nate who had covered her trial as a young
reporter. It all comes back to him. He
tells the doctor, who babbles about the
physiology of the thing—genetics, I guess.
They confront Maggie. She tells them she
is innocent, and describes how it really
happened. They believe her. All exit
except Maggie, who then applies an axe to
a chopping block, laughing hideously.
This proper haggis was described as a
thriller. It may have been, in the era of
Rain, E. Phillips Oppenheim and The
Bat. Certainly, most of the cast borrowed
their dramatics from a time when over-
acting for the silents set the universal
style. Clement McCallin as the Press
magnate qualified for the Silver Ham in
1962, but he was merely the most prepos-
terous of a ridiculous bunch in a fusty,
trivial play.
Condemnation must extend to those
who accepted it as suitable for television,
billed it as a thriller, designed a set that
dominated most of the action, and made
this worse by camera work that fre-
quently gave the setting nine-tenths of the
picture. In production, “The Suspect”
was treated as a play viewed by cameras,
and the players acted accordingly, but
with wondrous variations in period
styles, delivery and dialects.
“The Suspect” was billed in Melbourne
as “first of a series of full-length dramas,
made at HSV7 by noted British producer
Peter Cotes which will be seen in coming
months”. If it is any criterion, we are in
for a bad time.
It should be obvious by now that tele-
vision demands an entirely new drama,
with simplicity its keynote. Anything
more is nearly always too much. And
this dictum includes small casts, sets that
suggest and never obtrude, ideas as direct
as homing pigeons while as light on the
wing, writing and acting that achieve
realism before trying to ascend to poetry,
and photography which finds its story in
small detail rather than in 23-inch
Cinemascope.
Snobbery must be the current veil over
this obvious truth, which is visible in the
best of the imported series. This snob-
bery wants us to look back to “theatre”
for our values. If Mr Cotes cannot show
us good filmed drama, he will be no help
at all. Australia has been a traditional
grave-yard of overseas and particularly
British talent for too many decades to be
much impressed by reputation.
FRANK ROBERTS


THEATRE
A PLAY FOR ALL REASONS
A Man For All Seasons. Robert Bolt.
Palace Theatre. Sydney.
npnERE can be little argument that this
English play, about the great Tudor
figure Thomas More, is the most distin-
guished production the Elizabethan
Trust has given us since “A Long Day’s
Journey Into Night”.
The play itself is first-rate, the produc-
tion, by Sydney standards, quite out-
standing; the acting has only minor
blemishes, and as an evening of theatre
it is an intense and gripping experience.
In a fashion, this is an old-style play,
unashamedly written about a great man
and his fortunes. Small portrait or re-
vealing incident, playwright Robert Bolt
builds us into a state of remarkable
knowledge of Thomas More, of a strange
sweet intimacy with the processes of
personal greatness.
Theatrically, there are many splen-
dours: Raymond Westwell’s production
has an expertise and imagination far and
above what we are used to here. There
are technical features galore to delight
the student of production: wonderful
sense and hold of rhythms, dead right
changes of pace, everything which should
be pointed up is, and nothing is pointed
up which shouldn’t be. Moreover, Mr
Westwell handles his cast exceptionally
well.
Mr Edward Hepple, as Thomas Crom-
well, is the only important player who
fails to measure up adequately, and then
by no means all through the play. There
is a lot of good in his playing, up to the
point where Cromwell should grow from
a sleek rat into a major power. At this
point, where growth of the character
ought to surprise us, where strength is
called for, Mr Hepple fails. Where he
should roar, his voice tails into a tense
and choked scream; where he should,
with his pacing, strike the earth with
rage and terror to the beholder, he
merely struts in temper.
But the virtues of the o'/erall acting
are immense. In Mr Robert Speaight’s
acting of the principal, there is growth
of the finest kind. The scene where
More, imprisoned by Henry and Crom-
well, is allowed again to meet his wife
and family, is a triumph of acting that
knows exactly what it is doing, of an
actor who knows big emotions and has
the honesty and technique to show them
full out. Speaight’s cry in this scene “A
lion, a lion I married” is a piece of big
theatre one will not forget.
If Mr Speaight very occasionally gave
the effect of a comic waiting for his
laughs, this could well have been due
to a lack of response from More's family.
By no means left behind by the major
..
qua ,ty of Mr Speaight were Grant
Taylor, Roderick Walker, Joan Mac-
Arthur, and John Gray who played
the Common Man, a very busy fellow
indeed. Mr Gray has the rare gift of
being able to be coarse without being
vulgar, quite an asset, and a distinction
that many people of the stage never even
get to know about. Young Miss Carmen
Duncan revealed considerable feeling for
the stage, as More’s daughter, but she
must learn to keep all her movements
in the one style some of her head
turns and gestures had the lightness of
comedy, working against the seriousness
of her voice and body. In all, one of this
city’s very best bits of theatre for years
past, and not to be missed.
KEVON KEMP
TOO SUDDENLY ONE SUMMER
Summer Of The Seventeenth Doll. Law-
ler. Union Theatre Repertory Com-
pany. Russell Street Theatre. Mel-
bourne.
TTne of the difficulties ,vith the Doll is
that we only see the seventeenth
summer the other sixteen are talked
about a great deal, but never actualised.
Everything we see serves only to confirm
the scepticism of Pearl, the sheer con-
temptuous disbelief of Johnny Dowd.
Olive and Bubba seem altogether starry-
eyed and foolish Olive’s “tragedy” is
only superficially affecting because we
have nothing, other than her own special-
pleading, to measure it against.
The problem is more than one of
credibility. There is, at the heart of the
play, almost by definition, a serious lack
of vitality the seventeenth summer is,
after all, a very dull affair. It is to
Malcolm Robertson’s credit, in this new
production, that he makes an honest
effort to keep the play in balance, and
win our interest in it as a whole. If he
does not altogether succeed, it is basic-
ally because the play is not quite good
enough.
The first night performance was
marred by a general insecurity. Sydney
Conabere as Barney and Bunney Brooke
as Pearl were both at home in their roles,
but none of the others seemed to have
settled their interpretations, and there
were some long flat stretches. Clarissa
Kaye’s Olive is clearly an intelligent at-
tempt, and should settle into a good per-
formance. Wyn Roberts still has to find
a way of bringing to life the almost
totally inarticulate Roo.
The original setting by Richard Prins
is visually effective, and well adapted
to the small stage.
JAMES MURPHY
ART
SWAMP CREATURES
Gareth Jones-Roberts. Australian Gal-
leries. Melbourne.
lan Armstrong. Argus Gallery. Mel-
bourne.
Jones - Roberts, while not
being a highly original painter,
handles a couple of themes skilfully
and boldly. His best works are those
which capture the life and movement of
nature, to which he opposes lumpy,
square-jawed, hunched figures of hunters
and fishermen. His misty swamp back-
grounds are strongly reminiscent of
recent works we have seen at the same
Gallery by Sidney Nolan, but the work
varies in having a bright swift fore-
ground, sketched in with a quick energy
which makes the work appealing. Beyond
this feeling of rapid, shattering move-
ment there is not a great deal of sub-
stance in the painting. It is all com-
petent and agreeable, but it rarely attains
that combination of strong ideas and
clear appropriate forms which makes
painting commanding.
Nearly all the works in lan Arm-
strong’s large exhibition are variations on
ball and stick shapes. Exploitation of a
limited range of shapes is common and
highly successful among abstract painters,
largely because the concentration on
form and organisation is obvious, and
the possibilities are pursued to some
depth. In Armstrong’s case, the con-
flict between the real subject and the
form it must fit is too dominating, and
one cannot help feeling that often the
idea is made to fit the form. Perhaps
his direction should be towards a greater
degree of abstraction, although none of
his works suggest any leaning that way.
His color range too is a trifle strident,
and would improve with more flexibility.
Nonetheless, there are quite a few works
in which his devices throw his subject
into a new and refreshing light. His
readiness to explore and his sincere and
skilful command of his material merit
respect.
BILL HANNAN


THE RED PAGE
THAT CERTAIN BOOK
TRAPPER TO TEACHER
By PROFESSOR HARRY MESSEL
TT'HERE are many people who think that,
because little Johnny likes to read
about fire-engines, motor cars, jet planes,
ships and rockets, he will perhaps want
to become an engineer or a sailor or a
pilot when he grows up. Nothing could
be further from the truth. The important
thing and perhaps the outstanding thing
today is that little Johnny reads at all.
Unfortunately, books have become less
and less attractive to children in the post-
war years with radio, television and
comics largely taking their place. Comics,
of course, are the worst offenders, for
this form of “picture reading” is naturally
attractive to children because it requires
less effort and imagination than the
reading of even a simple book.
In the early years it does not
really matter what a child reads so long
as it is reading something that has some
sort of a purpose and whose subject is
not as banal and futile as most of the
subjects used by comics. Once a child
has developed a habit and liking of
reading it will soon specialise in a general
field that appeals most to its mind at
its particular age. However, as I said
at the outset, this early choice in a
child’s reading habits has little to do
with its ambitions in later life. It could
well be that a boy who is at first fascin-
ated by Red Indian and western stories
and later shows a marked preference for
animal and sea stories, finally becomes an
engineer or a wool classer, who as an
adult prefers to read only historical
novels. In fact it is very rare that a
child right from the start and from its
early reading efforts chooses one subject
or field and sticks to it throughout adult
life.
I am myself perhaps a case in point. I
am today a Professor of Physics and
head of what is perhaps the largest
School of Physics in the British Com-
monwealth. Most of my reading and
most of my writing concerns Physics or
education in general. I have written
scores of scientific papers and books and
articles in my chosen field, and yet my
first published work—in a little school
journal when I was in my teens—was an
essay entitled “The Habits of the Cana-
dian Muskrat”. My parents—l am one
of a family of six born in the Manitoba
prairie town of Rivers (population 700)
—never had the slightest inkling that
their Harry would one day be a physi-
cist. Of course, environment has a
tremendous influence on children and the
particular environment in which we grew
up was a rather tough one. It was 50
below in winter and 110 in summer. You
spent half the year preparing to survive
the other half. Also, we were by no
means a wealthy family and I had to keep
myself at school by working through
most of my childhood. In winter I got
up at 4.00 a.m. and went to inspect my
trap lines until it was time to go to
school. I used to trap mink, muskrat,
ermine, weasel, skunk, beaver, fox—in
fact anything I could catch and sell its
pelt. In summer in my early teens I
worked on the railroads driving in rail
spikes with a sledge hammer.
VTaturally there was no time for much
nonsense in my life in those days
and consequently I developed no liking
for trashy reading or comic strips. As a
matter of course I gravitated towards
travel stories, hunting and fishing stories
and books and stories on adventures in
foreign lands. Naturally, too, I was
interested in Red Indian stories and
westerns, but only to some degree
because there was no mystery or strange-
ness Red Indians held for me —I lived
among them and went to school with
them.
Strangely enough, despite the rough-
ness, hardness and reality of the sur-
roundings I grew up in, I developed a
great liking for poetry at a very early
age, and when I could afford it I bought
a Tennyson or Browning book and gave
it a place of honor on my shelf.
As unusual as it may be for a nuclear
physicist, I am still very partial to poetry
and I have a good collection of it in
my library at home in French’s Forest.
As I entered my teens my preference
for hunting, fishing and travel literature
changed gradually to history. I remember
the years in which I raced through prac-
tically every history book of our poorly
stocked local public library. My taste for
reading in those days was twofold —one
might almost say that I read historical
books as a matter of learning and to
educate myself, and poetry for leisure
and recreation. This may all sound a
little doubtful to Australians who un-
fortunately have come to know me al-
most exclusively as a boisterous, con-
vivial raiser of funds for science, con-
tinuously begging government and indus-
try to help with more money for educa-
tion; but in my childhood and in my teens
I was much shyer than I am today. I was
a boy who very much kept to himself,
to his school, to his work and to his
hunting. Ah yes, there was another thing
that constantly occupied my mind in
those days—money. Again it was money
for educational purposes, but not for the
education of others; it was for myself
because I wanted to leave our little town
and go to a big school.
With the war looming I suppose it
was quite natural for me to gravitate
towards a military career. True, I had
developed a liking for science at the age
of about 15 or 16, but the war atmos-
phere gained the upper hand and I went
east to the Royal Military College in
Kingston.
There was little time at the College
for leisure reading, but I did find some
time to read a little more than I had in
my earlier days about the great physicists
of the past, and of their fascinating
field in which so much remained —and
remains—to be done. My graduation in
1942 rudely interrupted all such thoughts
and there was little reading for me while
I was, in turn, in the infantry, the artil-
lery, the paratroops and with the Cana-
dian Task Force in the Pacific.
It was perhaps this “absence” of
reading that made “my heart grow
fonder” of reading and study. So soon
after the war, back in Canada, I enrolled
at Queen’s University, Kingston, Ontario.
Yet even then my reading dilemma be-
tween the humanities and science was not
solved, and it was for this reason that, to
the astonishment of the University ad-
ministration, I took honors courses in
both Arts and Applied Science simul-
taneously. I obtained my B.A. with first
class honors in mathematics in the
spring of 1948, and my honors BSc
in Physics a few months later in the same
year.
Since then of course I have made a
decision and my entire life is now
devoted to science, but it is perhaps be-
cause of my early hankering for the arts
and humanities that I have not become
one of those scientists who insist that
there is hardly any place any longer for
the humanities in this scientific age.
It is for this reason perhaps that I am
merely advocating that more should be
done in Australia about the badly neglec-
ted facilities for science studies, but never
have I urged that this be done at the
expense of the arts and humanities.
I may have become a physicist but
even today when I can find the time
to retire to my library, you will probably
find me there reading an historical novel,
a travel book, or most likely a book of
verse.


VIEW FROM A HANSOM CAB
By FRANK KNOPFELMACHER
TV|odern pacifism as a mass-movement
is a product of World War I. Amidst
the senseless slaughter of millions, pro-
longed by the blunders of political and
military imbeciles on both sides in what
was not even a decent “trade war”, paci-
fism came to be regarded as the only
rational and honorable attitude by many
thinking men of good will. There were
no genuine moral objectives at stake in
that war. The social structures of the
Central Powers were pretty much the
same as those of the Entente, and there
existed roughly the same amount of poli-
tical freedom on both sides. It would
have made very little difference to the
human condition if the Central Powers,
rather than the Allies had won.
The situation changed drastically with
the rise of Nazi Germany. By 1939 the
issue was clearly one between an expan-
sionist system of genocide and death on
the one side, and a relatively free if imper-
fect society on the other.
The citizen who took the field in 1939
and who was told that the issue was one
of liberty or death was told the plain
truth. He was often reluctant to believe
this, because ossified slogans from school-
books are difficult to bring to life again
and he was made immune to “atrocity”
propaganda by the memory of four
years of concentrated lying during World
War I.
Nazi Germany was a tightly milita-
rised society which put her own pacifists
such as the great Karl von Ossietzki into
concentration camps. At the same time
pacifists were tolerated, honored and even
encouraged in the Western democracies.
The resourceful Dr Goebbels noticed a
golden opportunity in this. Why not
exploit the prevalence of pacifist opinion
within the body-politic of the potential
victims to further German military supre-
macy and to weaken the victim's will to
resist? Thought was quickly translated
into action and soon the world was to
know a new political phenomenon: the
bogus “peace” movement as a device to
promote the strategic interests of a mili-
tarist Government. Nazi “peace-lovers”
were particularly active in France, whose
armed forces were regarded by the Ger-
man General Staff before 1939 as their
main adversary in a future war. French
pacifists, socialists, liberals and fascists
(in those days there were two fraudulent
popular fronts in France and not one)
soon found themselves celebrating peace
and international brotherhood on one
platform with open or disguised Nazi
cutthroats. Joint ex-servicemen leagues
for peace, assiduously cultivated by Ber-
lin, proliferated. German money flowed
freely into the coffers of French news-
papers, notoriously available for sale in
those days, which printed hymns of peace
cursing at the same time the awkward
Czechs, the squealing Jews and the few
British and French politicians who advo-
cated resistance. Among the causes of the
debacle of 1940 Nazi-controlled “peace”
propaganda ranks high.
The attitude of the Communists to paci-
fists is the same as that of the Nazis. The
Communist rulers reject pacifism as a
petty-bourgeois deviation, they persecute
pacifists in countries under their control,
and their policy towards Western pacifist
organisations is dictated entirely by the
political and strategic interests of the
totally militarised Sino-Soviet bloc. This
came out very clearly during World War
11. At first when Stalin supported Hitler
nobody in the West was anti-war enough
for the Communists, who went so far as
to deliver anti-fascists reluctant to accept
Stalin’s new pro-Nazi line, to the Gestapo.
Yet as soon as the USSR, was invaded the
immediate opening of the Second Front
against fascism became the slogan to be
seen on every wall to which a Communist
brush had access. The warmongers of
yesterday became allies, Lord Beaver-
brook was decorated with the order of
Lenin and cld labor stalwarts like Jimmy
Maxton and McGovern, reluctant to give
up their life-long pacifist habits at a call
from Moscow, were smeared as fascists.
Communist newspapers in Britain even
demanded their arrest. In the USA Com-
munists acted as informers for the FBI
helping them to hunt down those social-
ists and Trotskyites who were unwilling
to support the war-effort.
IjUHEN the war was over and a coalition
” led by the USA became the chief
antagonist of the USSR the Communists
went again into the “peace” racket, this
time in a really big way. An international
organisation “The World Peace Council”
directed by high-ranking Soviet Party and
intelligence officers was set up, to co-
ordinate “peace” moves on a world-wide
scale, peace movements and peace
councils were launched in all target
countries of Soviet aggression, an elabor-
ate system of sabotage and non-co-opera-
tion with military research-projects was
set up among Western scientists, and
lavish “peace” conferences were held
annually in many countries. The moral
and military dilemmas presented by
atomic weapons provided the main focus
of attention. The prime immediate
object of the Communist Governments
in all this was two-fold: (1) To hide the
fact that Communist dictatorships depend
on secrecy and cannot tolerate effective
international inspection. The blame for
the continued disarmament deadlock had
to be shifted on the Western powers. (2)
To divert attention from the fact that
the new war for the domination of the
world is being fought at the present time
by a new combined method of political
penetration and guerrilla warfare. Public
attention was successfully diverted from
the jungles of Asia and Africa and from
the concentration camps of Eastern
Europe, where the contest is actually
taking place, to neurotic preoccupations
of a masochistic kind with a purely im-
aginary nuclear apocalypse.
A s is usual with Communist fronts, the
World Peace Council overdid things at
least in the English speaking world, was
found out and exposed as a Communist
front. All reputable progressive organisa-
tions have since refused to associate with
it. It is banned both by the British and
Australian Labor Parties, though the ALP
does not enforce the ban. Yet the fears,
and sentiments which the WPC exploited
particularly in England with her experi-
ence of the blitz, and her present posi-
tion as an “American air-craft carrier”
deeply embedded in popular conscious-
ness, are still very real. The Committee
for Nuclear Disarmament and its radical
offspring, the Committee of One Hun-
dred, started at first as genuine non-Com-
munist and even anti-Communist efforts
to create a mass-movement against the
testing and use of atomic weapons. Yet
there is growing evidence that both organ-
isations are now penetrated by Commun-
ist operatives. They receive increasingly
favorable publicity in the Communist and
Soviet Press, and, recently, Soviet con-
sular officers were intercepted issuing
advice to Asian and African students resi-
dent in London to join in CND marches.
Bertrand Russell has lent his prestige
as philosopher and his photogenic face to
the service of the CND. His latest book*
is written for the Cause and consists of a
number of propositions some of which are
true and platitudinous, others false and
dangerously misleading. The true ones
assert that hydrogen bombs are dreadful,
humanity in peril, that peace and life are
good, war and death bad, and that power
corrupts. The false ones assert that East
and West are almost equally to blame for
*Has Man a Future? Bertrand Russell,
Penguin, 6s. 6d.


the Cold War, the West a bit more so just
now, that Soviet scientists can voice
genuinely independent opinions at inter-
national “peace” conferences, that
America is a near-police state not very
different from the USSR, that Khrush-
chev is turning the USSR rapidly into the
kind of society which Bertrand Russell
could approve of, and that England has
not changed since the battle of Omdur-
man (this is implied). It is not quite clear
whether the book was published before or
after the USSR had resumed testing.
FFhe former case would merely make it
A somewhat more grotesque, yet in
the latter case one would have to con-
demn it as grossly dishonest, since Soviet
tests are not mentioned, and there is not
a word of condemnation against Soviet
scientists who must have disappointed
Russell with their failure not to organise
sit-down strikes against the tests on the
steps of Lenin's mausoleum. Russell also
goes once more into the futile business
of reiterating that a world government
would be a good thing. His image of con-
temporary England can best be gauged
from the following amazing quotation
(pp. 78-80). “Much the strongest objec-
tion to world government arises from the
sentiment of nationalism. When we say
‘Britons never never shall be slaves’, our
hearts swell with pride and we feel,
though we do not explicitly say, that we
should be slaves if we were not free at any
moment to commit any crime against any
other country. . . . Suppose, for example,
that there was only one Navy in the
world, and that its supreme admiral
should be chosen in rotation from the
various participating powers. Most
patriotic Britons would exclaim: ‘What,
should the British Navy, which Nelson
led to glory, come in due course to be
commanded by a Russian! Perish the
thought!’ ” The terminology and the
“atmosphere” evoke the image of gas-lit
late Victorian or Edwardian London,
hansom cabs, Lord Kitchener, Oscar
Wilde and all that, the time when a
brilliant young Whig aristocrat had a
whale of a good time using his razor-
sharp brain to develop logic and to em-
barrass his rather dim-witted peers in the
Foreign Office. It seems that Bertrand
Russell like so many other “pickled boys”
of the British upper classes became
emotionally frozen in his twenties. This
accounts partly for his inability to under-
stand, deep down in his bones, that the
country of his birth is totally different in
almost all relevant aspects from what it
was in his youth.
An important move in the unilateralist
game is to propagate the view that Soviet
society is not so bad after all and that
it is rapidly improving. This makes the
Red half of the “Red or Dead” alterna-
tive easier to sell. Russell has succum-
bed to this temptation in his book and
ruined his life-long honorable record of
honesty about the nature of the Soviet
regime otherwise so rare among liberal
intellectuals.
The rejoinders to the main unilateralist
fallacies can be summarised thus:
(1) The dilemma is not “Red or Dead”
but continuation of a free if risky exis-
tence versus certainty of Communist
conquest.
(2) Surrender to Communism does not
ensure that there will be no nuclear war.
The Sino-Soviet bloc is split and riddled
with murderous faction fights. Com-
munists are not inhibited by any moral
taboos and nuclear wars between Com-
munist states are quite possible. The
Yugoslav Communist leader Kardelj said
that much in his book “Communism and
War” published in Belgrade in 1960
which caused an uproar in Moscow and
Peking.
(3) The chances of liberalisation in the
Soviet bloc are real but they depend for
their success on the continued existence
of a free world to act as spur, temptation
and hope for the forces of reform. Lead-
ing revisionists throughout Eastern
Europe have admitted this in so many
words, and Soviet intellectuals have said
or implied the same thing in numerous
private and confidential conversations
with Western visitors.
(4) Partial success of the unilateralist
movement may precipitate the very dis-
aster which the CND wishes to avoid. If
the Soviet rulers come to the conclusion
that the West is rotten to the core and
unwilling to fight, the dreaded marching
orders may be issued and the world
plunged into a nuclear holocaust. A close
study of esoteric Soviet publications on
military and political affairs for experts
only, reveals that the success of the
unilateralist movement in the West is
used by Soviet military and political
experts as an index of our morale.
It is revealing that the Soviet Govern-
ment has put an absolute ban on the
publication of physical details about after-
effects of nuclear bombardment in the
Soviet Press. Such details are commonly
found in Western publications.
(5) No atomic disarmament is possible
as long as the Soviet bloc remains a dic-
tatorship depending on absolute secrecy.
Since no dictatorship without secrecy is
possible the Soviet bloc would cease to be
what it is if it were to give up secrecy
and agree to a system of adequate inspec-
tion. If that were to happen the nuclear
problem would evaporate. No such
development is likely to occur in the fore-
seeable future.
(6) Yet the West can reduce the danger
of nuclear war by decreasing general
dependence on nuclear weapons. That this
can be done, has recently been pointed
out by John Strachey. He recommends
a policy of developing and strengthening
conventional armed forces. The present
American effort to improve Western
capabilities in the field of guerrilla war-
fare is another move in the right direc-
tion.
It is unlikely that rational arguments
will influence the behavior of the uni-
lateralists. There is a virtually unlimited
pool of good-natured and foolish people
in our society to fill their ranks, and the
organisers have made up their minds
long ago that our society is not worth
defending. In Australia their main
obstacle, so far, has been the blatantly
Communist nature of “peace” organisa-
tions. Yet ever since the Federal execu-
tive of the ALF gave notice early this
year that it is unwilling to liquidate the
Victorian junta under any circumstances,
co-operation with Communist fronts has
become officially respectable. And it took
only three months to transfer the Com-
munist “peace” plank for 1962, from the
January issue of the Communist Review
to the Executive of the Federal Labor
caucus.
A mong intellectuals and academics
“peace” operations will be aided by
the recent switch of the Australian Com-
munist Party from the tough and sincere
Chinese line to the slimy and devious
Khrushchev line. Unilateralists and
fellow-travellers are already in control of
the Federal Council of University Staff
Associations, a position from which they
can and do influence University opinion.
The President of the Melbourne Univer-
sity Staff Association is an official sponsor
of the forthcoming Moscow “peace” con-
ference. The Sydney “Outlook” which
started off as a genuine revisionist publi-
cation, seems to have become now the
main co-ordinating device of Soviet
“peace” operations among Australian
intellectuals. Australian CND groups are
merging at present everywhere with Mos-
cow Peace outfits, the most important of
which is Mr Goldbloom’s ANZ Congress
for Disarmament and International Co-
operation. The Protestant Churches are
strongly imbued with unilateralist senti-
ments and the first rather tentative
attempts at unilateralist propaganda have
been made in the hitherto immune Catho-
lic community.
The “peace movement” is only one
feature of the gradually emerging Aus-
tralian sell-out party. The other is the
greedy pursuit of short-term trade
interests located in the Liberal-Country
Party coalition. Our road to disaster may
have its economic and trade signposts
provided by the Right and a “peace”
ideology to match supplied by the Left.


IF YOU HAVE A
FLAIR
FOR WRITING...
Turn your talent into a spare time income.
There is a constant demand for well-
written stories, articles, pars, radio and TV
scripts, etc., and you can learn to write
successfully for Australian and overseas
magazines and papers.
STOTT’S can train YOU by post.
For details of Stott’s excellent correspon-
dence courses in literary subjects, post the
coupon below . .
Stolls Correspondence College
I -lit Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 14!) C'astlereagh
Street, Sydney; 2!)0 Adelaide Street, Brisbane;
21 Grenfell Street, Adelaide; :i:i Howard Street,
Perth.
' CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
TO STOTT’S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
AGE (5.8.1262)
THROW OFF YOUR SHACKLES
A Bachelor’s Children. Hal Porter.
Angus and Robertson. 225. 6d.
TTow long is it since Max Harris pub-
fished The Vegetative Eye? That
must have been the first really deter-
mined attempt at avant-garde fiction in
Australia, and perhaps it had, for all its
explodable pretensions, promise and
verve. A. D. Hope’s notorious review
of it performed in some ways a dubious
service: with greater verve, amounting
indeed to sheer savagery, it cut away
pretension, and, almost unnoticed, it cut
away ambition too. For this, and what-
ever other reasons, Australian fiction has
suffered until very recently a long and
excruciatingly dreary reign of nat-
uralism.
The victory has been won by default:
Patrick White's overseas acclamation has
made it impossible any longer to suppose
that all Australian fiction writers should
be jolly good blokes, reporting things
that everybody could see if only he went
outback: or into the Sydney slums: or
wherever you care to pick, following the
rather dismal successes of Australian
fiction. Meanwhile not only White had
for years been writing non-naturalistic
fiction without success; so had Hal
Porter, as this collection of stories at-
tests. The latest of them was written in
1959; the earliest as long ago as 1936.
"The Room”, for instance, was
written in 1936, when Porter was nine-
teen, and was published in The Bulle-
tin in 1959. It is the story of an in-
effably young writer seduced by a world-
weary (but somehow underlyingly sensi-
tive) immeasurably rich bitch, which
even contains a money-tearing scene: it
retains meaning only by arduous trans-
lation. If w 7 e made the characters less
absurdly extreme in style and situation,
would the emotions seem true? In part
they would. With the earlier stories (and
alas, a few of the later ones too), we
have to fight to the emotional truth
through the sheer fictional exaggeration;
but the emotional truth is the“e.
Of course, Porter’s fictional exaggera-
tion is not simply an exaggeration of cir-
cumstance: it is an exaggeration of style.
It is by flamboyance of style that Porter
first and most violently protests against
the shackles of naturalism, too often at
the expense of seeming merely flam-
boyant.
At least this shows a sort of concern
with style that all this time was rare in
Australian fiction. I do not want to be
misunderstood here. Porter’s style often
seems empty, and has irritating manner-
isms (for example the row of dots be-
fore he refines from one w-ord to an-
other more exact). But it is never, I
think, sheer empty pyrotechnic: even
where it fails as dismally as in “Gone
Away” it is trying to convey meaning.
And in the best stories it really w'orks.
The best stories include “Revenge”,
"At Aunt Sophia’s”, “The Dream”, "At
the Galahad” and “Fiend and Friend”.
"The Dream” is the most sparkling of
these, a story w'hich recounts the experi-
ences of a short-term English master in
surely the seediest of all public schools.
Here the exaggerations of style reveal on
the one hand a lively wit (the account
of a hedging conversation in terms of
ping-pong); and on the other hand, a
calculated rejection of the sort of ap-
pearances that the situation offers. Por-
ter’s recording of a disjointed and associ-
ational view of the proceedings in this
story, with its simultaneous implied de-
piction of what that view is so conscien-
tiously rejecting, is masterly: there may
be moments of loose and exaggerated
prose in the private reflections, but by
and large it all serves admirably to con-
vey what might very well be called a
"criticism of fife”. That this story should
have made the Faber A ustralian A tr-
ibology gives one a renewed trust in
editors.
EVAN JONES
MARKING TIME
Australian Poetry 1961. Selected by
Leonie Kramer. Angus and Robert-
son. 15s.
rjTns latest in the useful Angus and
Robertson series poses the usual
problems for the reviewer. Few people,
unless they are extremely diligent or
concerned with the present state of Aus-
tralian poetry, can have such full know-
ledge of the poetry published in a given
year as the editor of one of these
volumes; and accordingly few can speak
with authority as to whether the selection
is a judicious one. Only when the antho-
logy contains sub-standard work does one
begin to wonder; and nobody knowing
the wit and rigor of Dr Kramer’s critical
judgment will expect that of the 1961
number.
Her task remains an unenviable one,
however, for there are no signs—here
or elsewhere —that it was a vintage year.
The editor prints thirty-three poets, all
represented by one poem except Rose-
mary Dobson, David Campbell and
Judith Wright. Gwen Harwood makes
two appearances, and readers of The
Bulletin may be sad to learn that her
Walter Lehmann poem has no acrostic
in it. Nothing in the book is of really
poor quality; Dr Kramer has even man-
aged to find a poem by John Blight
("Dugong”) which is more compact and
meaningful than the general run of his
verse.
Let no one talk of a “renaissance,”
though, if (as we have every reason to
believe) this is a fair sample of last year’s
poetry. Some of the established names
maintain their resonance: Judith Wright’s
“Black Cockatoos” is slight, but marked
by that characteristic blend of meaning
and elegance we have known before;
while A. D. Hope’s “Pseudodoxia Epide-
rnica,” after beginning in a manner which
will send every reader hunting for an
Oxford Dictionary, develops into a rnag-
nificent, taut, puzzling parable like those
of the mitidie Yeats.
But the poems of several others only
seem to be marking time. Vincent Buck-
ley’s “Good Friday and the Present
Crucifixion,” for instance, has the vigor
of epithet and the depth of perception we
commonly associate with his name, but
the poem—like some of the rest of his
recent work—is strangely uncommand-
ing. The vision is there, and is patently
genuine; but it does not take hold of us.
Is this the fault of the genre Mr Buckley
works in? Or is it that in spite of advanc-
ing discipline his old disposition to
rhetoric still makes the reader wary? And
in Chris Wallace-Crabbe’s “Wintry Mani-
festo”, while there seems some move-
ment away from the domestic milieu


ARE YOU INTERESTED?
Thursday, 21 sf June,
Federation House, 166 Phillip Street,
8 p.m.
Dr. S. BOYDEN, A.N.U. Canberra,
will speak on
"Education for international
Understanding".
(By arrangement with N.S.W. Humanist Society,
LY 7675)
SYDNEY GRAMMAR SCHOOL
College Street, Sydney
Applications are invited for the post of Music
Master at Sydney Grammar School. He will
be required to take charge of and develop
the subject, both in class-teaching and in the
extra-curricular work of choir and orchestra.
He must have experience of class-teaching,
choral and orchestral work in boys' schools.
The salary scale is based on the N.S.W.
Teachers' Salaries and masters participate in
the State Superannuation Scheme. Applications
must be made in writing, not by telephone,
to the Headmaster, Sydney Grammar School,
College Street, Sydney, accompanied by copies
of testimonials and giving full details of
education, qualifications, experience, age, etc.
MOTOR OVERHAUL
WHILE-U-DRIVE
REPLATES WORN, upper cylds., main bear-
ings, diffs., gears. SAVE: Rebore. ENDS:
Piston slap. rattles, oil, petrol waste,
RESTORES: New compression, power, top
speed, zip, SAVES: Adds LSD to re-sale value.
GUARANTEED: Up to 25,000 miles. Harmless
finest engine, liquid Nu-Metal, or in Tablet
form. SIMPLY: Add Re-Nu expanding liquid
Nu-Metal, or in Tablet form to oil, petrol, or
plug holes, 4,6, 8 cylds., 60/. 70/. 80/. Testi-
monials. engineers’ reports, free advice avail-
able. Open Saturday. Distributors required.
RE-NU CO. (estab. 1932), 58 Swan St op.
Richmond Stn., Vic. J 81755.
I enclose £ for Super Nu-Metal.
NAME
ADDRESS
BUL.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP
NEW SOUTH WALES
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
TO: IVAN VASSILEF, late of Albury—TAKE
NOTICE that ELIZABETH ANN VASSILEF
has filed a petition for divorce No. 3634 of
1961 on the ground of desertion. If you
intend to defend you may file an answer in
the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, by the
15th day of August 1962, and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from Messrs.
John H. Peoples & Co., Solicitors, 77-79
Elizabeth Street, Sydney in the State of New
South Wales.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
of much of his book “The Music of
Division,” there is a loss of some of the
control and civilized wit. Here the
language is sometimes banal (the “how-
ling” wind, the “grim” king of the dead)
in a way that this poet never permitted
it to be when he worked in a narrower
scope.
I mention these four poets to indicate
two generations. For the rest, the stan-
dard is good without being startling.
The anthology has in it much tnat gives
pleasure: even though there s a hawk
in one, Rosemary Dobson’s two poems
are shapely and pleasant; David Martin s
“Post Finem Mundi gives further signs
of the development Mr Martin has made
in recent years, somewhat astonishingly
if one considers his early propagandist
efforts; and J. R. Rowland s A Sea
Voyage” is amusing and well-fashioned,
GRAHAME JOHNSTON
THE TEMPERATE VISION
The Ha Ha. Jennifer Dawson, Anthony
Blond. 18s. 9d.
Age of Consent. Norman Lindsay. Ure
Smith. 225. 6d.
The Man-Eater of Malgudi. R. K. Nara-
yan. Heinemann. 20s.
"Ooth “Age of Consent” and “The Ha
Ha” essay ironical comment on
society by presenting visions of people
detached from it: in the former it is
that of a painter, in the latter of a young
schizophrenic girl, who has this view of
the world: “On the one side there are the
stars and snow and love, and then on
the other side there are houses perched
up in the sky, with pockets of electricity
and running water and music, and pipes
and tubes running down into the earth,
and everyone eating savouries and
dancing and talking about the best way
of life.”
Only Alasdair, another asylum inmate,
understands her, and they become lovers.
In the light of this experience she rejects
the community’s anaesthetic attempts at
therapy, and the novel ends with her final
pathetic flight. Though the work is
sensitive and sometimes moving, there is
too little interaction or understanding
between the girl and normal people, it
remains a comment from an isolated
world: only in moments of insight does
the ironic point inflict anything more
than flesh wounds. She is real—-and this
is the novel’s triumph—but the society
against which she is projected is a
phantasm.
This essentially romantic dichotomy
can be detected in many modern novels,
and Norman Lindsay’s must be included
among them. Here the outsider is Bradly
Mudgett, bluff, bearded, inarticulate, and
obsessed by the tonal values of the
lonely seacoast he finds so congenial.
People either terrify or puzzle him; he
cannot explain why, but his creator has
the answer: society is hopelessly cor-
rupted by money and morality, and thus
the individuals who persist in getting in
his way, in the series of awkward con-
frontations that is Lindsay’s method of
engendering action, are so distorted that
Dickensian caricature becomes the only
way of depicting them.
Hence true life can reside in Bradly
alone, and though he is a vigorous and
convincing creation the outcome is not
a pagan view of the world but a Calvinist
one, consisting of the damned and the
elect. Only Cora the simple-minded
nature-girl is good enough for Bradly,
and their encounters by the sea as he
paints and finally loves her have the
atmosphere but not the artistry —of
Blake’s Songs of Innocence. Cora is
responsible for her stepmother’s death,
and Bradly, a man near middle age,
possesses her; but these things mean
nothing, anything is permitted them:
they are beyond any moral law.
It is in R. K. Narayan’s novel that we
get the temperate vision, unified and dis-
passionate, though the story that he tells
is bizarre enough: to the provincial
printery of Nataraj. the narrator, comes
Vasu, taxidermist, pragmatist and strong-
man. A blusterer, he becomes an un-
welcome guest in the attic above the
shop, then a non-paying tenant whose
stuffed hyenas and pythons clutter the
stairs. The inoffensive Nataraj, the local
Sanitary and Forestry officers, all are
powerless: Vasu seems invulnerable, a
shock - haired evil spirit who finally
threatens to shoot the village elephant
during a procession; only his death, self-
inflicted by his own mighty fist, averts
the calamity.
The story has its roots in allegory, but
of a kind that can be sensed rather than
elucidated. Printer comes to mind: the
same inexorable powers overwhelm
custom and normality; but to Narayan
life and character are resilient, these
trials will pass, so the result, embodied
in a style as succinct as it is delicate, is
high comedy.
BARRY OAKLEY
LITERARY
COMPETITION
Adelaide “Advertiser” is running
a literary competition in conjunction
with the third Adelaide Festival of Arts
in March, 1964. The total prizemoney
offered is £2OOO.
The competition is open to residents
of Australia, as well as those of Aus-
tralian birth, wherever resident, and resi-
dents of any other country, provided that
in the last case the entry is on an Aus-
tralian subject, or has an Australian back-
ground. Entries must be original, un-
published works.
Novel: £l3OO first, £4OO second,
£lOO third.
Short Story (maximum 4000 words):
£lOO first, £4O second, £lO third.
Poem (maximum 50 lines): £4O first,
£lO second.
Entries close with “The Advertiser,”
Box 392 GPO, Adelaide on December
31, 1963. Entry forms can be obtained
from that address.


m fiftt mmc< me
*wmt d mr-
Hocee ck?tv m da acer m
in bumd red m m pm-^
IW6 Of A CHA/MFP, HALF
DAKP 6/RF Hapius A
MFF AT THF WOf
A PRIVATE COP ||) A
mm coat.
TH£ 50b-mo Of) w
(MR
■ TH£ seVUCTR£SS
> FROM rue SA^-
meet?
' Perecrm
. m v&wm
bn rut hap
to m &miw:
if M wr foz weptwe
CM TS. IT S&P «£
m um. i m rep
PAPERBACK'S APfER
ihkt < Bite! mi
V\%' WM
mien!
MILLION' TItiLVC
mmi
TH6M-AU Of a
emu-Homnei
?RC6$ 60 OP nor
COl/BRO 0Q fa
cifob cones
10. i caot tm
66T AO EDITOR
TO MK TO MS.
45 i-Asr WAe r 65f with
irf m New 05o(c
cams sur ume
m me *me -,
TIONAt Aspects
OF THe MORAI.
D/CHOTOMY 7
in joueo-
CHRISTIAN -
fAAN'«
A PAINTW6 OF
MOZART W
06N
ON TH6 (MR
AMP OtiLO WH£M HOO TURU To THE
mOE 00 Opo OFJc THE SUBHEAD'
"WHEW THE SEME# E®H AMIOCH
Hieep AMTWwEisr mike
AW. OF musm'
THEORIES OtMAWep SAOWKAU'
amp t/st (JUDee that it
£EAPS - "A CRtTm Mie&O&O
of out Time/
its soio fooftrzeu
Mum met,
I've &oxxe\) voices
OF OFF 6& Xo
SFFAK AT
uwepsmes,
m 'OMWDS'
16 WP6 MP
UP6 5Xm
M HALLMARK
OF A
potmwmi,
16 A
PROFmV
KMtm
OF H 6
mm
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 697
ACROSS
I—Light users are expected to settle such current
accounts. (5, 5)
7—A vessel is partly open. (4)
9—Letter in which party mirth is expressed. (5)
10— A beam from crying Johnnie. (3)
11— What failed in 1588 to give a girl a gun. (6)
12— A high honor for good service. (3)
13— Finish. (3)
16— Inter-blend the crazy mad baseball team. (5)
17— Cook East in a grating. (6)
20— Wrongly avenge a European
city. (6)
21— Portia fancied this singer with
a turned in duck. (8)
23 Fleming’s address among those
who bring the forte ashore.
(8)
24 Current is running against a
sort of string harmony. (6)
26—Shriek from travellers on
Shanks pony. (6)
28— Love’s nothing on this judi-
cial tribunal. (5)
29 It’s wrong to take a chair.
(3)
32—Un-translated? (3)
34 The right angle on Bellini’s
operatic heroine with a temp-
erature of 98.6. (6)
35 Hawthorn adversary of Ben-
aud in the last test series. (3)
36 Big Australian business makes
them sicken. (5)
37 Offspring indulges in legpull-
ing. (4)
38— Air cruises arranged by a
breastplated cavalryman. (10)
DOWN
1 and 2—People diverge at such
examples of 3-down? (7, 2,
3,4)
3 Way over specialised mathe-
maticians which make U-
turning impossible. (4-8)
4 Is postal matter enough for
this Levantine ruler? (6)
5 Load boy with whom he
carelessly gives a rotten deal.
(5)
6 South Premier of NSW in the
depression argot. (5)
7 One laugh! (3)
8— A capital knave is at first a
novelist. (4, 6)
14— Drape rings parts of the
theatres. (5, 7)
15— Bradman, perhaps, is an aid
to musical enjoyment at
home. (6, 6)
18— Nude ranked wrongly, being
still lit, still pale. (10)
19— Swell understated ten. (3)
22—Cook, a playwright and little
fish. (3)
25—Who models the first of a
couple. (6)
27—Chinese misbehavior, I see.
(5)
30— Lout mixed this balsam. (4)
31— I am a factor in calculating
circles in a Kaffir army. (4)
33—German city letters. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 696.


i M
sy:
s: r
v r
...
■WT* i ;
V.
SW
%
3b /■' „ ...-
«
:
-i,
.
K
:. :
HM
■HHH
mmmm
'
laiiiisip
SELECTED
aonrHJJsa
Hill
CLARcT
UNDEMAN ISP
SYDNE
-*KT «<WrW*-«
W*. J
. .
SBS
0
WARR\, RLESU
StIECTED VIH T **"*
HOCK
i&K* Siate* <3 *a»»!
S®*M ITDI
•* Of
■ -
csswreim
CAWARRA
A noble wine for a noble roast! Cawarra Claret, the most
popular red table wine in Australia, was selected exclusively
by the French Olympic Team on their visit to Melbourne.
When you choose white wine order Cawarra Riesling,
dry, delicate and delightful in every way.
marts
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST PRIZEWINNERS
